7

 

l

ington a

INg

The Alumn
~ of Was Zi

 

 

 

 

ae
Ged 5
#5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Grand Entrance

 

The Class of 1989 Ushers in a New Era

 

The heat and humidity were op-
pressive. The television cameras and
newspaper reporters were omnipresent.
The questions and the answers were
predictable.

Moving-In Day for Washington and
Lee’s Class of 1989 was, at least in some
respects, less than typical.

And yet, in most respects, the Univer-
sity’s first coeducational undergraduate
class made a routine entrance on the sec-
ond Sunday in September.

There were trunks to be carted up
dormitory steps. And curtains to be
hung. There were stereos to be installed.

2 W&L

And roommates to be greeted. There
were bare walls to be covered with
posters. And window fans to be
purchased.

Had it not been for the media atten-
tion accompanying the occasion, the ar-
rival in Lexington of 406 freshmen would
have been remarkable primarily because
it was so normal.

But the media representatives were
hard to avoid, let alone ignore. When he
addressed parents of the entering
freshmen in Lee Chapel, W&L President
John D. Wilson took note of the televi-
sion cameras that were eavesdropping on

the proceedings and elicited laughter
from the parents by telling them: ‘‘If you
don’t wish to comment on the historical
significance of your 17-year-old going off
to college, you don’t have to.”’

By the first day of orientation some
of the freshmen—particularly many of
the 105 women students—had been inter-
viewed (and photographed) so often they
were as comfortable in front of the
cameras and microphones as the
interviewers.

In addition to the state and area
media, the University’s change was the
subject of stories on the national wire

 

burg is interviewed on Moving-In Day.

services and in USA Today. (See box)
The attention had not been unex-
pected. When the W&L Board of
Trustees made its decision in favor of
coeducation on July 14, 1984, newspaper
accounts of that event appeared as far

away as Paris and London—a fairly clear

indication that there was considerable in-
terest in the transition.

In the 13% months between the deci-
sion and the arrival of the first
undergraduate women, the University ex-
perienced a remarkable increase in
applications—a 76 percent jump over the

previous year. Admissions officials traced

some of that increase to the high public
profile that the University enjoyed in the
aftermath of the coeducation decision.

But while the admissions office was
busier than ever selecting the first
coeducational undergraduate class, com-
mittees on the campus were equally busy
planning for its arrival.

Physical changes to the campus were
held to a minimum: locker-rooms were
remodeled in the gymnasium, lighting
was improved on the campus, ad-
justments were made to the dormitories.

Many of the changes were less visible.
Among those was a revised orientation
program. Although not quite a return to
the bygone days of freshman camp at
Natural Bridge, elements were added to
the week-long orientation in an effort to
build a sense of class identity and to in-
still an appreciation for the University’s
rich history and traditions. The revisions
in orientation had been planned for some

     

Freshman Katherine Nelligan (right) of L ynch-

session held near Liberty Hall.

As usual, registration was a process of stand-
ing in lines and filling out forms.

time; it was a happy coincidence that
they were implemented this year.

One new feature was a historical
sketch by University Historian Taylor
Sanders. Addressing the class from in
front of the Lee Chapel, Sanders used
four campus landmarks—Ol’ George, the
Cyrus McCormick statue, the tomb of
Jockey John Robinson, and Lee
Chapel—to illustrate the various phases
of Washington and Lee’s development.

Concluded Sanders: ‘‘. . . our Univer-
sity, like our campus, continues to
evolve. Like a crusty old snake beside a

For the second year in a row freshmen were introduced to the University’s Honor System in a

 

 

 

Freshmen examine The Ring-tum Phi at the
Alumni Association’s picnic.

stone wall, we seem constantly to be
sloughing off old skin and emerging
something new, yet still basically the
same. The core goes deeper than mere
tradition. We remain an independent
small school, a friendly school, but with
the broad offerings of a university. We
champion academic achievement and
competition, but always shaped by col-
legiality and courtesy. We encourage in-
dependence among students, whom we
expect will excel in all areas of life as
alumni. . . And at our very heart is
honor.”’

W&L 3

 

 

University Historian Taylor Sanders presented a historical sketch of Washington and Lee at one
of the sessions during the orientation program.

 

From the Press Clippings -

Roanoke Times & World-News —
3 September 9, 1985. |

‘‘I didn’t really choose the school because Dad went here,’’ Cathy Boardman said
of her father, John K. Boardman Jr., ’51. Rather, she said, it was because W&L’s
admissions staff made her feel more ‘‘comfortable’’ than those anywhere else. She
wanted a small school. ‘‘The campus is gorgeous, the people are nice. It just felt right.”’

Richmond News-Leader
September 9, 1985

Robert H. Manson, a freshman from the Richmond area, said he likes the deci-
sion to admit women, but ‘‘it didn’t have any bearing’’ on his attending W&L. ‘‘It’s
much more relaxed than just with guys,’’ said Manson, a graduate of Douglas Southall
Freeman High School in Henrico County. ‘‘It will be interesting to have girls around.
It will be interesting to see how it works out the first year.’’

The Washington Post
September 16, 1985

 

**T toured all over the East Coast: UNC, Duke, Dartmouth, Harvard, Vander-
bilt, U-Va,’’ said freshman Lucy Anderson of Houston, great-niece of a former trustee.
‘*T wanted a rural campus because the urban ones are so ugly; I wanted a small school,
because there is more personal attention; I wanted good academics and I wanted that
sense Of history... ."

USA Today
September 16, 1985

Alumnus Bill Ford of Atlanta, Class of 1961, has mixed feelings: ‘‘I said to the
school, ‘Don’t do it, but if you’re going to do it, hurry up in time for Dee.’ ”’
They did, and this fall his daughter, Delia, enters as a freshman.

 

 

 

4 W&L

 

same

Another feature added to this year’s
Orientation was a freshman class picnic,
which was sponsored by the Alumni
Association and featured remarks by
Trustee A. Christian Compton, ’50,
Virginia Supreme Court Justice, who
described the intangible concept he called
‘‘the Washington and Lee Experience’’ to
the new students.

‘‘This so-called ‘Experience’ is unlike
any that you could have at any other col-
lege in America. The experience is real
and not illusory. It will have a positive,
lasting effect on your lives,’’ said
Compton.

Central to that experience, Compton
said, is the Honor System, which is ‘‘a
viable force that is central to every stu-
dent relationship; it is not a mere
platitude.”’

Compton told the freshmen that, ‘‘as
a direct result of the rich intellectual
development that you acquire
here . . . you will have an intellectual
self-esteem that is unique to graduates of
Washington and Lee. This will not
manifest itself in an air of superiority as
you relate to others with whom you come
in contact. Instead, it will be a personal
sense of satisfaction with your intellectual
and social experiences here—a sense of
well-being, if you will, as the result of
having received a superior liberal arts
education that can serve as the
springboard for any future endeavor.’’

There were other innovations in this
year’s orientation program—a ‘‘Mocktail
Party,’’ part of the University’s ongoing
alcohol awareness program, an Adventure
Weekend of activities such as spelunking
and hiking sponsored by the Army
ROTC program, and a series of ‘‘ini-
tiative games’’ to build camaraderie.

Those activities were interspersed with
the more traditional orientation fare—
registering with faculty advisors, taking
placement tests, and receiving an in-
troduction to the Honor System.

By mid-week the 90-degree
temperatures and the reporters both
departed. Cooler fall weather and up-
perclass students returned. Fraternities
began their annual rush activities;
freshmen started selecting their classes;
the tranquility of a Lexington summer
quickly gave way to the comparative bus-
tle of the school year.

And by the first day of classes, the
questions turned from coeducation to the
drop-add procedures.

Finally, the fanfare had ended for the
Class of 1989, and their lives as
Washington and Lee undergraduates had
begun.

 

       

 

a a BC - - oe - - -
7 - > 7 7 - - - - 7 7 - oe . °
- so 7 : - . 7 - - > - -
- - . - - - - -
“
| - - - - 7 -
. . - - -
. > 7 - > Oo - oe -
« - . : . - -
. - : ‘ 7 - -
7 + 7 . 7 - 7
- . > . - -
. . - -
- a -
. -
- - 7 4 : . -
7 - - . -
- 7 - : 7 :
- . . _ 7 > - 7
- - - - : . .
- - . + : - - a _ - - Oo ee i - CO ae -
ot oe - - a _ ee 7 - : : :
- - - - - - - - - _)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ers of the cl
ondary school

 
  

 

 

   

 

 

ree = rar oa nec re ee ae cer SA A A PR ee RY ecg! Pe eee eee

schools in varying degrees and different combinations. Yet
nowhere were they combined as they were at Washington and
Lee. I realized that the uniqueness of this University did not
lie in any one factor, but instead in the singular combination
of them all. I know now that this is why I could choose no
other school but Washington and Lee.

Valerie Pierson
Greensboro, N.C.

. .. I felt that, at
WE&L, I would not
merely be a number
in a classroom.

 

 

Pierson is a graduate of Southeast Senior High School in
Greensboro, N.C., where she was an honor student, a varsity tennis
player, a member of the National Honor Society, secretary of the stu-
dent council, and coordinator of Teenagers Against Drinking/ Drugs.

As the daughter of a Washington and Lee alumnus, I had
quite naturally harbored a keen interest in the University since
childhood. Needless to say, I never really expected to be eligi-
ble to enroll at Washington and Lee as an undergraduate since
it had always been exclusively for men. I was most excited to
learn of the decision for coeducation, and I decided to take a
closer look at my father’s alma mater in order to determine
not only what Washington and Lee had to offer me, but what
I, in turn, might be able to offer Washington and Lee.

As I examined these thoughts, I was immediately impressed
by the reputation Washington and Lee had established for
academic excellence. Both the outstanding faculty and the
highly qualified student body had, through the years,
demonstrated themselves to be leaders in the academic field.
Furthermore, the alumni of Washington and Lee had proven
themselves in the ‘‘real world’’ by the numerous successes en-
countered in their respective careers.

In addition, Washington and Lee’s size had allowed for the
development of close friendships between the faculty and the
students. Unlike most of the large universities, the professors
at Washington and Lee were available outside the classroom
for help on an individual basis should the need arise. This
facet of the educational process was especially appealing to me
because I felt that, at W&L, I would not merely be a number
in a classroom; rather, many of my professors would be in-
terested not only in my intellectual development, but also in
my growth as a person.

One particular factor that favorably influenced my decision
was the existence of the Honor System. Administered solely by
the students, this system had played a vital role in maintaining
the atmosphere of mutual trust, honor, and faith characteristic
of Washington and Lee. In my opinion, this type of at-
mosphere has created an ideal learning environment.

As a member of the first coeducational class, I knew I
would find an additional challenge; this challenge will be to
help pave the way for future female undergraduates. This
prospect is both exhilarating and frightening: exhilarating

6 W&L

because of the chance to be a kind of pioneer and frightening
because of the possible negative reception by students, faculty,
alumni, and others associated with Washington and Lee. After
careful consideration, I decided that the challenge of being
part of the rapid and constructive changes occurring at
Washington and Lee was one that I wanted to accept. In fact,
the relative uncertainty of the tradition ultimately served to in-
crease its appeal.

These are some of the concrete reasons for my decision to
choose Washington and Lee. There was, however, an addi-
tional contributing factor, which was less clearly defined.
Perhaps it was the sense of belonging that I felt as I walked
the paths so many before me had walked. Perhaps it was the
challenge to establish new paths for the young women who
will matriculate in future years. Or perhaps it was the gleam
of pride in my father’s eye as he referred to his years as a
‘‘mink.’’ This intangible quality had created the aura of
Washington and Lee that persuaded me to become part of the
W&L experience.

~ Donald C. Schaeffer
_ Lexington, Ky.

Washington and Lee
offers one of the best
East Asian Studies
programs in the
country. . .

 

 

 

Schaeffer is a resident of Lexington, Ky., and a graduate of Ar-
mand Hammer Union World College in Montezuma, N.M. He was a
member of the National Honor Society and an Honor Roll student,
won varsity letters in golf, soccer, and basketball, was editor of his
school yearbook, and served as president of the Key Club.

Before I received my acceptance from the admissions of-
fice, I returned to Washington and Lee in March to take a
closer look at the facilities and to talk with students and
faculty. My visit in the summer of 1983 was unsatisfactory
because the campus was empty; I needed another look.

The enthusiasm of my interviewer, Bennett Ross, and the
availability on short notice of Dean [Edward] Atwood of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, and Professor
[Roger] Jeans of the history department to discuss my
academic goals helped me narrow my choice. J was also taken
with the congeniality of students who took the time to fill me
in on things not mentioned in the catalogue, such as certain
aspects of social life. The tradition of academic excellence, a
friendly atmosphere, a low student-faculty ratio, and access to
the outdoors finally resulted in my decision to attend W&L.

My experiences at the Armand Hammer United World
College in New Mexico spawned an interest in international
affairs, especially in the Orient where our economic ties are
very strong. Washington and Lee offers one of the best East
Asian Studies programs in the country, unusually strong for a
small university, and that program fit my plans to pursue a
career in international business. During the next few decades,
as China opens her doors and Japan becomes a key economic

 

 

ney College and
little note of his’

dealt with me as an

 

 

 

 

at

 

 

 

 

 

on school outin
wwilderme

Were it not for the le
monument’s e 0

hollow amid tr

1974 to 1976, W
home more or less on

 

 

 

 

wee
mG

general electorate for hard work, in-
telligent pragmatism on defense issues,
effective management of Virginia’s
economic interests, and a compassionate
concern for victims of the nation’s energy
crisis—he sponsored successful legislation
to provide federal assistance for heating
oil to low-income families.

Warner’s office in the Russell
Building on Capitol Hill is a jumble of
18th-century American portraits,
Bicentennial memorabilia, ship models,
flags, eagles, and, across the long table
that serves as his desk, piles of books
and thick file folders. It’s a little bit like
a college boy’s political dream—the posi-
tion and power, lots of really neat stuff,
but with all the serendipitous clutter of a
dormitory room.

Among the objects most precious to
Warner are the gold medals, encased in
lucite, won by his father at W&L. The
younger Warner attended W&L on the
G.I. Bill and helped defray the cost of
his education by summer employment
and work as his fraternity’s house
manager. He remembers Roger Mudd,
his classmate and fellow native
Washingtonian—‘‘We were almost frater-
nity brothers.’? And Mudd remembers
Warner: ‘‘Yes, I knew John well. He
spent his first summer back here in

The Vietnam Memorial

Washington working as a hod carrier.
Then he met Catherine Mellon (his first
wife). I don’t believe he ever carried
bricks again.’’

Warner has warm recollections of
Mudd, Charley McDowell, Freddy Vin-
son, Ed Gaines, Bryan Bell, and Pat
Robertson, the evangelist—‘‘His lifestyle
now is somewhat different from what it
was back in those days.’’

Warner’s favorite W&L professors
were Dr. Bean in history and Dr. Dickey
in physics. He remembers ‘“‘the tremen-
dous human contact of the deans and the
faculty with the W&L students who had
come back from World War II,’’ adding:
‘‘They were so conscious of what the
veterans had done. They wanted to do
everything possible to make our educa-
tion profitable, enjoyable, and to see to
it that we all graduated.’’

Among his W&L chums was Linwood
Holton, later Governor of Virginia.
Warner kicks back in his tall senatorial
chair and drawls, ‘‘He busted a paddle
across my butt during fraternity initia-
tion; we’ve been the closest of friends
ever since.’’ Laughter. ‘‘He came up for
the ceremony when I was sworn in as
Secretary of the Navy, and we got to
reminiscing about how we were im-
poverished in the old days at school and

Photo courtesy Washington Convention and Visitors Association

living on the fourth floor of the frat
house while the more affluent boys were
living on the first and second floors, and
here I was head of the world’s largest
navy, and Linwood was Governor of
Virginia, and where were they?”’

Warner never did carry bricks again.
But what is life in Washington like
for the Senator? ‘‘Well, I’ve lived in and

around Washington and Northern
Virginia all my life. I practiced law here,
worked in the Pentagon for five years,
and I understand how the city functions,
the power structures, the political struc-
tures. It’s old hat to me.’’ Does the city
seem to him his hometown, his communi-
ty? ‘‘At one time it did, when I was rais-
ing my three children, but they’re all
grown and gone now. I still see my
mother quite often—she’s now, what, 96
years old. But now it’s just my farm in
Virginia. Every chance I have to get out
of here that’s where I go. The only social
life I have in the city is the one
necessitated by my office. Still, the
periods of solitude are very brief.”’

Warner, the workaholic, reflects,
‘‘Solitude is while I’m sleeping.’’ He
smiles. ‘‘Bob Dole observed the other day
that some of the best work we do in the
Senate is not while we’re standing up.”’

The next day, still upright, Warner
was off to Alabama. A few days later,
the former W&L Trustee raced down to
campus to deliver the School of Law’s
commencement address. Shortly
thereafter he was off to Oxford Universi-
ty to lecture on nuclear risk reduction,
then Brussels, Geneva, and the Soviet
Union.

It is a life of huff, puff, and bother
to this man of military might. But Sen.
Warner has a tireless dedication to his
cause. The words trail after him like
hoofbeats—‘‘to work, hopefully, towards
a more peaceful world for my children
and theirs.”’

Paul Trible, ’71L

T junior Senator from Virginia,
Republican Paul Trible, has his quarters
in the new, modestly elegant Hart Senate
Office Building. He shrugs off the irony:
as a member of the House of Represen-
tatives, Trible had opposed the building
as too extravagant. But once in the
Senate, Trible needed a place to set up
housekeeping. His conscience is clear—
somebody had to use it.

To get to Trible’s suite of offices, you
pass through security on your way into

W&L 9

 

an immense atrium of glass and polished
marble. It’s sort of echoey. Trible’s of-
fices are on the fifth floor overlooking
the atrium. The reception office is homey
and small, with two secretaries answering
correspondence; the large main office has
a whole battery of secretaries clattering
away; Trible’s own room is grandly
handsome, furnished and flagged the way
you’d think a Senator’s office should be,
but with one tiny, touching exception:
Behind Trible’s desk, taped to the glass
of an enormous gilt-framed mirror, are
children’s drawings. Ecce homo.

Trible won his Senate seat on the first
try in 1982 at age 35. Capitol Hill had
been his home since 1976, however, when
at age 29 he became the First District of
Virginia’s only Republican representative
in this century. So, although Virginia’s
‘*junior’’ Senator, Trible has worked in
Congress actually longer than John
Warner has. He points this out quietly
while acknowledging that, yes, he is
about the youngest Senator currently in
office—no, the second youngest, but the
youngest Virginian ever.

He continues softly, ‘‘I am the
1,555th American to serve in the United
States Senate. Very few Americans and
even fewer Virginians have been afforded
the opportunity to help shape the life of
this nation and the life of this world.
That’s an incredible opportunity to have
an impact for good.’’ Trible makes such
statements without vanity or guile, ap-
parently without wishing to seem
remarkable, only serious about his
patriotic task.

His political genius lies in organiza-
tion and in consolidating the generally
conservative but nonetheless manifold in-
terests of his constituency. Trible is a
congenial conversationalist, but in a
public interview, he tends to speak slowly
in lofty, cumulous paragraphs:

‘I have a central core of ideas about
our nation and where we should go. To
that end I believe that we ought to put
our economic house ‘in order to ensure
economic growth and jobs and oppor-
tunities for future generations. But my
primary focus is defense and foreign
policy. In the House of Representatives I
served on the Armed Services Committee;
in the Senate I serve on the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee. I feel passionately that
America is the leader of the free world,
that we have a solemn responsibility to
promote peace and freedom. Virginians
have always believed that freedom is the
birthright of all people and that progress
against poverty is greatest and peace most

10 W&L

secure where people are free. The forces
of tyranny are on the march around the
world, and America must hold that light
of freedom high in a world where people
ought to be free to love God, and to
dream dreams, and to make themselves
happy.”’

Trible acknowledges that all of that is
tough on a freshman Senator, tougher
than he thought it would be after six
years in the House. ‘‘Every good Con-
gressman tries to work 25 hours a day,
but a Senator, by virtue of the fact that
he’s one of only 100 and must represent
an entire state, has a lot more respon-
sibility and things to do each day. I
thought I’d have a lot more opportunity
to get to know my colleagues. Not true,
and the reason for that is we’re all so
overwhelmed by the demands of public
office.”’

Trible has two children, a girl eight
and a boy five, with his wife Rosemary,
a former America Junior Miss whom Tri-
ble courted at Sweet Briar. How does the
family cope with the Senator’s schedule?
‘Well, I have a loving and understanding
family who are very much a part of this
public life. But I think the hardest thing
for me is to reconcile my responsibilities
as a Senator with my responsibilities as a
father and husband, and I take all of
those responsibilities seriously. Obviously,
I don’t have all the time I want for my
family. That is a very difficult aspect of
public life.”’

In addition to the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, Trible is a member
of the Commerce and Small Business
committees. He is extremely attentive to
his constituents, maintaining three
regional offices and firing off a newslet-
ter at regular, frequent intervals. He also
maintains a close working partnership
with Sen. Warner, with whom he shares
a quite similar philosophy of government
and a ‘‘warm and cordial personal
relationship.’’

Trible is eager to describe how his
education at Washington and Lee and
Hampden-Sydney, where he earned his
B.A. in 1968, helped him form values
critical to his success. ‘“There’s a great
deal of emphasis these days on dollars
and cents. All that’s well and good, but
the primary purpose of education ought
to be to teach character and values and
to pass on our culture and history to
each generation of Americans. That’s
what Washington and Lee has been doing
for a long time.”’

His personal recollection of his college
days has the kind of high-minded esteem

that is disinclined toward anecdote. When
pressed he allows, ‘‘The lasting picture
that I’ll always carry with me was the
handful of days that I spent at W&L
preparing for the bar exam. I had return-
ed to Lexington after a bar review course
to continue the cramming process. I
remember walking along the Colonnade
and climbing through one of the windows
of a vacant classroom and studying my
heart out and looking across that
magnificent campus and realizing,
perhaps for the first time, how really
special that environment is for shaping
and building character and thoughtful
and productive minds.”’

Trible passed the exam and went to
work for the Justice Department, where
he worked on litigation involving the
Watergate tapes. Three months later he
went back to his Eastern Virginia home
to accept an appointment as Com-
monwealth’s Attorney for Essex County,
then on to Congress for three terms, each
time with a significantly larger majority
of the vote, and then the U.S. Senate.
No more climbing through windows.

J. Bennett Johnston, ’54

Bennett Johnston is a Senator’s
Senator—knowledgeable, intelligent, a
shrewd parliamentarian, and an effective
manager of his constituents’ interests.
The third-term Democrat from oil-rich
Louisiana, Johnston is known on the Hill
as Mr. Energy. He is now the ranking
Democrat on the Energy Committee. If
and when the Democrats regain control
of the Senate, he will have the title of
chairman along with his already con-
siderable influence.

But Johnston is no pawn of big oil.
As an effective advocate of federal sub-
sidies for the development of synthetic
fuels, a sponsor of the 50-cent-a-gallon
energy conservation tax on gasoline, and
an outspoken opponent of big oil
mergers, Johnston clearly votes according
to his perception of the nation’s best
interests.

His other committee memberships in-
clude Budget and Appropriations, with
several subcommittee assignments in the
latter including Defense, Interior, Foreign
Operations, and Energy and Water
Development. His principal senatorial
mission these days is a balanced federal
budget. The Johnston Amendment for a
balanced budget failed in 1982, but not
before it had earned a surprising degree

 

John W.

 

 

Paul S. Trible

J. Bennett Johnston

 

 

of support from both sides of the aisle.

In his efforts to reduce the federal
deficit, Johnston is philosophical, though
nonetheless determined. ‘‘I think the con-
stitutional amendment is really not the
answer. I’m for it as much in frustration
as I am because I really think it will
work. But if you don’t have either an ad-
ministration or a Congress that will face
up to the issue of the balanced budget,
having an artificial device like the con-
stitutional amendment is not going to
solve the problem.’’

The nation’s fiscal dilemma is
Johnston’s abiding concern: ‘*‘The huge
deficits, the strong dollar, the trade
deficits exporting our jobs—in a few
words that’s our largest national prob-
lem, and it is a serious problem indeed.

‘‘On an international front, we have
Central America and the growth of
Marxism there. The continuing competi-
tion with the Soviet Union, of course,
underlies all of our international prob-
lems. The ultimate peril is one of nuclear
war. The intermediate one is Soviet
expansionism.”’

Johnston rates the Reagan administra-
tion very high in terms of its national
and international leadership. ‘‘I’d give
the President an A+ in that area. On his
fiscal affairs, I’d give him, well, a D
because of the size of the deficit. We
have to wait a couple of years to see how
it all works out. If the deficit leads to
great difficulties, as I think it will, then
the D becomes an F. If it works out very
well, then the D becomes a B.”’
Johnston, one of the Senate’s most
powerful Democrats, is not going to risk
grade inflation on a Republican
administration.

Bennett Johnston’s office is conven-
iently located on the ground floor of the

Hart Senate Office Building, just off the
atrium. Johnston was chairman of the
Senate Office Building Commission.

When the building was authorized in
1972, the cost of the project was
estimated at $48 million. By 1978, the
figure had risen to $175 million.
Johnston ordered a ceiling of $138
million and threatened to fire the Capitol
architect if it went higher. It held, the ar-
chitect kept his job, and Johnston got his
office, the one with the huge pelican on
the door.

In fact there are pelicans all over the
place in Johnston’s office. The Eastern
Brown Pelican is the Louisiana state bird.
A beautifully carved pelican adorns
Johnston’s desk; the ones that he wears
for cuff links are gold. It’s an odd bird,
of course—taciturn, aerodynamically ec-
centric, and yet a superb flyer, a bird of
paradox.

Johnston himself is at home with the
paradox, the most telling characteristic of
an educated mind. Of his experience in
the Senate, Johnston reflects, ‘‘The life
of a Senator is the best and the worst,
though more of the best. It’s filled with
excitement and challenge—a whole
smorgasbord of issues that you must deal
with daily. Therein lies both the thrill
and frustration—the thrill because there’s
so much that you can accomplish, the
frustration because you so often fail. But
I would not trade it voluntarily for any
other endeavor. I very much like what I
do.”’

On life in the nation’s capital, he
muses, ‘‘Washington is a beautiful, ex-
citing city. It is the political capital of the
world, so if you’re in politics this is the
place to be. But what is both its strength
and its weakness is that it is a transient
city. I don’t feel that it’s home, though

I’ve been here for 13 years. And yet with
each new political administration it’s con-
stantly being renewed with new people
and new ideas. Washington is ever-
changing, and that’s why it’s always ex-
citing and challenging. I suppose that’s
why I like it.’’

Recalling his college days, the 53-year-
old Shreveport native explains that he
never actually graduated from W&L. He
spent his freshman year on campus,
1950-51, and then accepted an appoint-
ment to West Point. After a year at the
Academy, he decided to pursue a career
in law, so he returned for an additional
year at W&L before enrolling in law
school at LSU. ‘‘At W&L, unfortunately,
I was always on the way somewhere else,
so I missed, and regretted very much, not
having the full four years at W&L
because I loved the time I was there.”’

Specifically, Johnston recalls the in-
terpersonal relationships he had with his
classmates and professors. ‘‘The develop-
ment of personal skills and the Universi-
ty’s emphasis upon the whole person
became very important to my life. I
found the Honor System important in
forging my attitudes toward integrity in
business and certainly in politics. So
Washington and Lee had a very profound
effect upon me. Despite my relatively
brief time as a student there, I continue
to be a very strong supporter of the
school.”’

Friends in high places. Harvard and
Yale have more in the Senate. Princeton,
Columbia, and the University of Virginia
law school are the only other institutions
with more alumni who are Senators, and
each has only one more than W&L. On a
per capita basis, of course, no institution
can compare.

W&L 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RAAT

WRG
SSS

SR aaa
ee on
a ee stings
SERA aataaRaarisninans teat S
‘ahitanaeritanaaainnsannienatnnnint Rc
3
ef itherrtircesacse

Soe RRR
: ou

sae.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L

12

 

 

 

| lawyers, and | ' was, never 1 intere ted in
: TC OW r-! « 10d k a 7
m 1 sort of a 1 fru trat

an id ; |

le in t that gen eration stayed a away from 1 teaching t
well. Well, I went 1 into teaching becau

 

 

 

 

/ aL i for consultations ¢ on the

the na . and you will r

rmal statistical |
and L. K Johnson. -
statistics b book

any biology Te couldn't get ir nto psycholc

any math J could t make. economics.

good way.”

 

 

 

    
 
  
 
  
 
 

k these are bad people who run for office,
ey get where they d do through a system of
peopl | ice the money that gets
king ‘out for the in-
ften sacrifices

 

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
     
 

 

assbeen 1 a » self-reinforcing 1 notion that when you’ ve

ntest | for an o office, if c one person spends money the

IS Q : ne} . The costs of reaching peo-
lounts spiral upwards and

ed by ‘the fact that

 

   

ae tt ‘to give ° free 2 advertising
for public « office. That seems
cae ernment has given the
|, which is worth
a solution

 

 
  
 
 
   
  
  

tina and § so on, and th y’re survivin;
a revolution. But the question i 3: h
O occur ir before people get to revisit

even | a . severe blow to the economy <

the question? I simply don’t knc

 

 
    

seat and tries
ve by sug-

such things
1A > ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is one of
licy co

 

ectable profes-
well. For tl

 

 

Broadening Horizons

 

Touring England with W&L’s First Alumni College Abroad

 

by Matthew W. Paxton Jr.,

"49

 

Sandford Orcas in Dorset, an Elizabethan manor house visited by W&L Alumni Collegians

AXumni College Abroad.

Each of those three words expresses
an essential ingredient of the experience
that 36 alumni and friends of
Washington and Lee enjoyed this past
August.

Led by a quartet of knowledgeable
W&L faculty members, we became im-
mersed in the treasures of Elizabethan
England for 17 days. Such immersion
was possible only because we were freed
completely from the logistical distractions

EDITOR’S NOTE: Paxton is the president and
editor of The News-Gazette in Lexington.

16 W&L

that are the unhappy lot of most Euro-
pean travelers.

This ‘‘hands-on’’ experience of
Elizabethan England was the sequel to an
on-campus Alumni College program
which had been held during the summer
of 1984. That one-week session,
‘‘Elizabethan England: Court and Coun-
try,’ had focused on that glorious era
when the Renaissance blossomed in
England and had been designed to ‘‘train
eyes and ears to perceive the interconnec-
tions among the many aspects of life in
the period.’’

The faculty members who directed the
on-campus college—John Evans

(English), Pamela H. Simpson (art
history), and Taylor Sanders (history)—
and Robert Fure, the director of summer
programs, served as our tour guides. And
a number of those who attended the cam-
pus course the previous summer did take
advantage of the opportunity to continue
their study by making the trip to
England.

Those of us who had not attended the
earlier course were made to feel at home,
too. We were given appropriate remedial
‘‘homework’’ in the form of some ex-
cellent reading on the era, which helped
put us in the proper frame of mind and
greatly enriched our experience.

 

From the time we assembled at Dulles
Airport and began to renew old ties with
fellow W&L alumni, our every need was
taken care of. Since we did not have to
worry with those nettlesome problems
that plague most travelers—from baggage
tags to hotel accommodations—we were
able to relax and prepare for the ex-
perience that awaited us.

Breezing through customs at London’s
Heathrow Airport, we were whisked onto
a luxurious bus and were shortly at our
charming, small hotel, The Chesterfield,
in the Mayfair area of London.

With several days in London to “‘get
our land legs’’ we launched right into the
Elizabethan period by attending a perfor-
mance of Shakespeare’s Coriolanus at the
National Theatre. Professor Evans gave
us a sprightly preview of this play as he
did of the Shakespeare plays we would
later see at the splendid Royal
Shakespeare Theatre at Stratford.

Leaving London by bus (and un-
doubtedly with one of the best drivers in
all England), we began a tour that was
centered on the great Tudor and Jaco-
bean country houses. Our planners had
wisely chosen to avoid the one-night
stand. Instead, we spent several nights
each in five of England’s choice smaller
cities and traveled out from them to the
great estates.

Every morning when we set out on
the bus through the manicured coun-
tryside, we were prepared for the day’s
treasures by an edition of the ‘‘Pam and
Taylor Show,’’ which featured a lively
and informative session led by Professors
Simpson and Sanders.

A number of private tours of the
houses had been arranged for us—a
stroke of genius in view of the swarm of
tourists in England this summer. Prob-
ably the highlight of these was the con-
noisseur’s visit to Hever Castle, which
began with coffee in the inner hall and
ended with sherry in the dining hall.
Because we were an academic group we
were treated with respect at every point,
and I trust we did nothing to reflect
discredit on W&L.

To me one of the most appealing
aspects of the program was its happy
blend of concentration and diversity. We
studied in depth the great Tudor houses,
but we also delighted in cathedrals,
Roman sites, medieval colleges, castle
ruins, and Elizabethan plays.

Even among these impressive sites
there was variety. One day we visited
Penshurst and Knole, almost overwhelm-
ing in their size and grandeur. The next

day we saw Hever Castle and Ightham
Mote, each one a gem on a much more
intimate scale.

Adding diversity to the trip was a rare
tour of the Bodleian Library in Oxford,
for which our leader was Charles Mould,
the distinguished secretary of the
Bodleian.

The planners of our trip had not
forgotten that the Elizabethans loved to
eat. We had some splendid meals,
notably in pubs or small inns, and a
great debate raged among us about which
was the best. My favorite was Sunday
lunch at The Castle, a pub in Chid-
dingstone. It began with salmon mousse
and ended with fresh red raspberries and
heavy cream.

The pace of the tour was excellent,
accommodating an age span that ranged
from the 20s to the mid-80s with the con-
centration in the 50-70 bracket. The con-
geniality of the group would have been
judged remarkable by ordinary standards
but was not unexpected with W&L
alumni.

When we were not discussing palace
architecture or Shakespeare’s genius, the
conversation invariably turned to Lex-
ington and memories of our days at
Washington and Lee. The reminiscing
culminated, inevitably perhaps, with an
impromptu a cappella version of the
Swing on our last evening together.

One of the tour’s prominent
storytellers was Dr. Harry Lyons, ’22, of
Richmond, who shared numerous anec-
dotes about growing up in Lexington
where his family operated a tailoring
business.

Bette and Allen Overton, ’42L, shared
their grateful memories of arriving in
Lexington during the post-World War II
housing crunch only to have the late Mr.
and Mrs. Bill Kinnear create a small
apartment in their Lexington home where
the Overtons were able to live.

Joe Ellis, ’43, of Clarksdale, Miss.,
recalled how he had hoped to spend some
post-graduate time in England on a
Rhodes Scholarship only to be edged out
in that competition by another W&L
alumnus, Edgar Shannon, ’39.

The job of making all the pieces of
the trip fit together rested on the
shoulders of Robert Fure, director of
summer programs.

The care with which he handled every
detail was illustrated near the end of our
trip. We had a close connection between
our arrival at our London hotel and our
departure for an Elizabethan banquet and
tour at Hatfield House. Some of the bag-
gage had not been distributed to our
hotel rooms, resulting in understandable
distress.

Rob delayed the departure, then call-
ed each one of us to advise us of the
delay. He alerted our British travel agent
who cajoled the people at Hatfield into
staying at their posts so we would not
miss our tour of that splendid house
before the banquet. Even the most jaded
travelers would have marveled at that
feat.

The whole experience was such a rare
combination of pleasure, of stretching the
mind, and of broadening horizons that I
may never try a trip abroad again—unless
I can go with a W&L Alumni college.

 

W&L 17

 

 

 

hi / a3 Ae
adiseee por Sheen weary
i Bi : a
; : Te
Ye Waa AN
sae ass SESS ea Chi ee. t

An Oxford Education

 

A Comparative Look at the British Approach

 

by William J. Watt

Ase higher education was the subject of considerable
scrutiny last year when several committees issued reports
about the state of our nation’s colleges and universities.

Perhaps the most publicized of those reports, ‘‘Involve-
ment in Learning: Realizing the Potential of American Higher
Education,’’ was prepared for the National Institute of Educa-
tion by a study group headed by Kenneth P. Mortimer of
Penn State.

When the Mortimer report was making headlines across
the country (‘‘U.S. Colleges Blamed for Student Deficien-
cies’’—The Washington Post) last October, I was preparing to
leave for six months in residence at University College, Ox-
ford, as part of Washington and Lee’s exchange program for
faculty. With the various criticisms leveled by the Mortimer
report fresh in my mind, I was afforded the opportunity to
examine firsthand the Oxford educational methods and to
make some observations with regard to the questions about
American higher education that Mortimer and his group had
raised.

What I discovered was that several of the key problems
Mortimer finds with American higher education have been at
least partly solved at Oxford. But, on the other hand, Oxford
has a complete set of problems which are not as pressing in
the United States.

Before addressing specific questions raised in the Mortimer

EDITOR’S NOTE: William J. Watt, professor of chemistry, serv-
ed as dean of the College at Washington and Lee for 13 years. A member
of the W&L faculty since 1955, Watt retired from the dean’s post at
the end of the 1983-84 academic year and returned to fulltime teaching
this September. During his year’s leave of absence in 1984-85, Watt
participated in Washington and Lee’s faculty exchange program with
Oxford University, spending six months at University College there.
This article is based on that experience.

18 W&L

report and the answers I found for them at Oxford, I should
set the stage a bit.

Ever since my colleague in the W&L psychology depart-
ment, Len Jarrard, suggested the exchange program for facul-
ty, I had looked forward to participating in it. Our arrange-
ment allows dons from Univ. (Oxford usage) to come to W&L
for a term or a year to teach and provides the opportunity for
W&L faculty members to visit Univ. to carry out research and
study at Oxford.

As you would no doubt expect, I found many differences
between the Oxford and American approaches to
undergraduate education, partly because of the differences in
secondary and post-graduate education in Britain and the
United States and at least partly because of the kind of
students who are attracted to Oxford from all over the world.
Oxford and Cambridge have always been considered the most
prestigious British universities, so they are somewhat different
from the rest of British institutions of higher education.

Oxford University has about 9,000 undergraduates, a third
of whom are women. In addition, there are approximately
3,000 students working for post-baccalaureate degrees. The
students live and are tutored in one of 35 colleges. They go to
lectures given by the department of their major.

University College, where I spent my leave (from January
to July 1985), is listed in the Oxford catalogue as the oldest
because William of Durham bequeathed it an endowment in
1249. The money was not actually used to support dons until
a few years later, after Merton, the next oldest college, had
constructed a building, part of which still stands today. Most
of the colleges enroll 300 to 500 students, Univ. about 450.
Each college is supported by fees and by its own endowments.
The departments provide lecture and laboratory space as well
as offices for the professors and lecturers. They are supported
by university funds from endowments and grants.

To enter Oxford as an undergraduate, you apply to the

 

a

a

oe

—
a

—
oe

 

ee

; of ‘ fst udy employed at Oxf

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For ir stance, b forti ner believe: the - otrdent iny
can be increased by allotting more
and second-year u

level have ao

 

 

 

   

    

first- and d second-year ¢ courses are n a. apt t to , be e taught b by
graduate ¢ assistants than full pr fessors. — |

discussion sections: *: through | semi
students themselves present

    

sense, | is” is less ¢ com
oe one SI

 

| their tutori ¢ there, anc
the I High ° r

 

p Table in the hall at ‘dinner. “Their presence d does
nore ae ning-cer in aimospnere in the « college,

  

   

| importance 0 of student-faculty © conte

center of an Oxford education. TI most’ impor-

tant seats om instruction é at Oxford. Students invari bly rate —

 
 
   
 
 

tu tor nor t only it instructs the student. but ¢ also adv vises, counsels.
consoles, inspires, and, at stim e .

allies, however, in getting | lent
aminations with the highest possible n mark. The college | tutors,

 

who also serve as lecturers in their own disciplines, are highly ©

gifted teachers whose tutele ”
their students.
_ Another « al Mort

 

ge makes a Hifelong: impression on

; rtimer s serial conditions for excellence is

  
  

| east two
1g ork on a major

| faculty members, Jeffrey Gray, had s; said after

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

instilled in Brit tu dents, » perhaps | more so
lents. People Tr met “who had not gone to col-
t interest in science, literature, the
ests no doubt owing to their secon-
| background. For students going on to the univer-
at ¢ xford is a liberal education in itself. There is a
n of lectures, plays, concerts, and activities
nts reate a broad cultural life. Students
; as actors and actresses, in-
s and technicians.
e certainty that the general —
education is sufficient.
nited States, are deploring
manities and social
7 com »pleting their medical

 

 

ditions for improving

| on the assessment and
one final examination for |
‘Oxford system. Each college
e university has only one _
particular field. Progress in
rd can be established by this
nowledge a and understanding

  

 

ng educational exp perience: is
ment conductes od stu-

  

or re favorable. The faeulty considered the
astions with care and were making adjustments
meet t the Gaeta ih criticisms. — 7

 

    
 
 
 

  

JOeS a long “way towe a rd
1igher education cited by

 

 

7 “Mortir mee FFeport. |

  

(compar

   
 

master v
| only in 1 the 1 major field and the lack of 7
aie sity work oe , pltcadtn’b be en ned.

 

" Like my, pen adie oe W&L, 1 had a an sacs

stimulating and d spiritually refreshi hing time dion ars ma i

 
   
 
   

   

 

semester at Washington and Lee. Said Gray: § “The 1 rez reas 7
Washington and Lee’ s + exchange prog am \ 1 with Univ. has

a ae
a

 

 

 

 

 

 

;
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

oe

Oo

 

 

   

.

er

 

 

 

.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

=

oe
ne
a a

ede a

Sd

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

   

 

 

- -
7 -
+
. :
.
—

 

 

| The restaurant featur S Am

ee

cuisine ¢ and i is open for lunch < er

_ House on the voeea of

-.
ae

1e former home

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Professor challenges
polygraphs

Today’s polygraph tests are no more
reliable than the ‘‘ordeals’’ of 13th-
century England were in determining guilt
in criminal cases, according to a
Washington and Lee law professor.

Roger D. Groot, who specializes in
criminal law at W&L and writes about
12th- and 13th-century legal history,
argues that permitting the result of
polygraph tests as evidence in jury trials
is inconsistent with the very origin of
juries.

‘‘Permitting polygraph results to be
admitted as evidence takes us back 750
years in the adjudication of criminal
cases,’’ says Groot. ‘‘We should not ad-
mit polygraph results under any
circumstances.”’

Groot points to the ordeal of the
sacred morsel as an obvious forerunner
of modern polygraph tests.

‘In 13th-century England if a person
was accused of a crime and denied hav-
ing committed that crime, then a test was
administered to determine whether the
oath was perjured,’’ explains Groot. ‘‘In
the case of the sacred morsel, the accused
swore an oath of innocence and was then
given a piece of bread or cheese which
had been adjured to choke him if his
oath was false. If he could chew and
swallow the morsel, then he was not
guilty.”’

Groot explains that since fear reduces
salivation, the ordeal of the sacred morsel
is based on an obvious psycho-
physiological fact.

The problem with such a test, Groot
says, is that it requires considerable
interpretation.

‘*The rule is simple. If a person could
chew and swallow the morsel, then he
was innocent,’’ Groot says. ‘‘But exactly
when was the standard met? How much
of the morsel had to be consumed? Sup-
pose an accused person chews and
swallows the morsel, but then can’t keep
it down—does that constitute guilt or
innocence?

‘‘My contention is that the old ordeals
rarely gave a clear-cut result and always
required that someone interpret the event.
Then in 1215 the ordeals were banned by
the church, and juries were empaneled to
act as judges of the credibility of people.

‘*By allowing polygraphs to be admit-
ted into jury trials, we have taken an
enormous step backward because the
polygraph is not much different from
those ancient ordeals. Instead of having

 

Groot

the community present as was the case
with the ordeals, we have substituted a
cross-section of the community by having
a jury hear polygraph results.”’

Like the ordeals, says Groot, the
polygraph is based on answering ques-
tions in the negative—that is, the defen-
dant is required to deny something. And,
also like the ordeals, the polygraph
presents two sets of data: a physiological
set and the polygraphers’ interpretation
of that physiological data.

Groot argues against allowing
polygraph results on other grounds as
well. He says, for instance, that ‘‘for the
system to work, it must be based on
deception. Polygraphers will say, on the
one hand, that the machine is not infalli-
ble, but they then turn around and tell
the person who is taking a polygraph that
the machine will determine whether they
are lying or telling the truth. My question
is, which story do they tell the jury?’’

Although Groot’s emphasis is on the
use of polygraphs in criminal law cases,
he thinks that increased use of polygraph
testing by businesses poses similar
problems.

‘It seems to me that the imperative to
interpret polygraph data as positive is
strong in these instances,’’ he says.

Groot contends that the polygraph
has a certain aura about it that causes
most people to believe that the machine
and the machine’s operators can do more
than they actually can.

Law News honored

The Law News, a newspaper publish-
ed monthly by W&L law students, took
top honors in a recent contest sponsored
by the Law Student Division of the
American Bar Association.

The newspaper received awards for

the best overall newspaper, best feature
article on law in the community, best
editorial on broader aspects of the law,
and honorable mention for an editorial
on internal law school affairs.

Law school newspapers from across
the country participated in the contest.
The Law News competed in Class A, for
law schools with less than 700 students.

The Law News won the award for
best overall newspaper for its January
and March issues. Jack Clary, a third-
year law student from Grand Rapids,
Mich., won the prize for the best feature
article on law in the community for a
story he did last September on local com-
panies operating without valid pollution
permits.

Law News editor Paul Fletcher, who
graduated in May, won the award for
best editorial for a piece on Attorney
General Edwin Meese’s reaction to at-
torneys’ requests for fees. Paul Beers, a
third-year law student from New York
City, won honorable mention for an arti-
cle on the Law Review’s move to scrap
the third-year writing program.

Grant for symposium

The Virginia Foundation for the
Humanities and Public Policy has award-
ed Washington and Lee, the Historic
Lexington Foundation, and the Stonewall
Jackson House’s Garland Gray Research
Center and Library a $1,900 grant to
organize a symposium on Southern
women this fall.

Entitled ‘‘Women in the South: Her
Story is Also History,’’ the symposium
was held on the Washington and Lee
campus in September.

Directed by Pamela H. Simpson,
associate dean at Washington and Lee,
and Michael A. Lynn, director of the
Stonewall Jackson House, the one-day
event brought together five historians to
present papers and discuss the role of
women in Southern history.

The symposium was an inter-
disciplinary program, and speakers ap-
proached the subject through history,
literature, and architecture.

The symposium was held in conjunc-
tion with several exhibitions at W&L, in-
cluding ‘‘Women at Washington and
Lee,’’ a duPont Gallery exhibition of
portraits, objects, and documents relating
to the role women have played at W&L
during its long history, and a display on
‘Rockbridge Women in the 19th Cen-
tury’’ in the Boatwright Room of the
University Library.

W&L 23

 

 

 

.

 

 

ter for the Use and

oo |

a -

Ayre —

 

re

 

/

BS

re

Be

 

:
:
-
:
;
.
:

 

The Bookshelf

 

From Westerns to Professional Ethics for Lawyers

 

Henry Ashby Turner, ’54
Hitler—Memoirs of a Confidant
(Yale University Press)

Turner, professor of history at Yale,
has edited these revealing memoirs of
Otto Wagener, who was purged by Hitler
only months after the Nazi takeover and
immediately withdrew into obscurity.
From 1929 until 1933 Wagener was a
confidant of Hitler, first as chief of staff
of the Nazi storm troopers and then as
head of the Economics Policy Section of
the Nazi party.

Wagener’s memoirs provide one of
the rare firsthand accounts of Hitler dur-
ing the years of his successful drive to
become dictator of Germany.

In the memoirs, Wagener depicts the
mesmerizing yet unstable personality of
Hitler, his day-to-day life, his ways of
manipulating others, and his entourage.
Wagener’s memoirs recount long conver-
sations in which Hitler talked on such
varied topics as power politics, marriage,
homosexuality, art, economics, and ‘‘the
Jewish problem.”’

Those conversations give an insight
into many of Hitler’s more exotic
characteristics—his drug use, celibacy, in-
somnia, and vegetarianism. In addition,
there is much to learn from Wagener
about the way in which men of in-
telligence succumbed to Hitler’s ideas.

Turner is the author of numerous
books and articles, including German Big
Business and the Rise of Hitler.

William Hoffman, ’50
Godfires
(Viking Penguin Inc.)

Godfires is Hoffman’s ninth novel
and, by his account, the ‘‘most commer-
cial.’ Written within a mystery
framework, Godfires is the story of pros-
ecutor Billy Payne’s attempts to solve a
sensational murder case involving his
small Southern town’s most prominent
citizen.

What begins as a routine investigation
turns into a nightmare of religious and
sexual obsession.

In an interview in the Richmond News
Leader Hoffman, who lives in Charlotte
Court House, Va., refers to a writing
class he had at Washington and Lee in
1950 as the turning point in his career.

‘*Three people in the class went on to
become writers,’’ Hoffman said in the in-
terview. ‘‘One was me. One was John
Bowen; he published a novel and works
in Norfolk now. One was Tom Wolfe;
you’ve probably heard of him. I think
that’s pretty good for one writing class.’’

Hoffman was a law student at the
time. He had earned an undergraduate
degree from Hampden-Sydney. The
writing class prompted him to drop out
of law school in 1950 and pursue his new
interest.

Horace B. Kelton, ’50

(under the pen name H.B. Broome)
The Meanest Man in West Texas
(Doubleday and Company)

H.B. Broome’s first novel is a western
adventure in which 17-year-old Tom
English becomes an instant legend by kill-
ing the second-best gunman in West
Texas in self-defense. The question quick-
ly arises: Can young Tom English live up
to the new reputation? He hardly has a
choice.

H.B. Broome/Kelton’s great-
grandfather was the U.S. marshal in the
part of West Texas which serves as the
setting for The Meanest Man in West
Texas. The family ranch was located at
Broome, Texas, which was named for
Kelton’s grandfather, the first man to
head the Texas and Southwestern Cat-
tlemens associations as well as the Texas
Sheep and Goat Raisers Association.

Broome/Kelton now lives in Ar-
lington, Texas.

arp Oy
wt

|

=
er
ag
A
|
ei
aa
=
H
ort
| ee |
7
se
el
5
es
es
me
O
—<
ih

 

Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law
American Legal Ethics
(Matthew Bender & Co.)

In the introduction to his new volume
Shaffer writes that ‘‘there seems to be a
difference between saying to a naughty
child, ‘A good girl does not turn the
garden hose on her grandmother,’ and ‘If
you turn the garden hose on your grand-
mother, you’re going to be in trouble.’
My bias in American legal ethics is for
the first kind of statement; I approach
the subject not as a matter of staying out
of trouble, but as a matter of being
good.’’

Shaffer’s latest volume on legal ethics
emphasizes morals rather than rules and
focuses on essentially two questions: (1)
Is it possible to be both a good person
and a lawyer? and (2) If so, how?

He examines the questions by blend-
ing a rich sampling of literary materials
(including Harper Lee, William Dean
Howells, William Faulkner, David Hoff-
man, and Louis Auchincloss),
philosophy, and theology along with legal
material integrated throughout.

At the heart of Shaffer’s approach is
the incorporation of almost 50 sets of
discussion topics developed through years
of classroom use and refinement.

Designed as a textbook for legal ethics
or professional responsibility classes, the
volume can be used for a variety of class
settings.

Halford R. Ryan, professor of public
speaking

Persuasive Advocacy: Cases for
Argumentation and Debate
(University Press of America)

The distinctive part of this textbook
for college courses in argumentation and
debate is a collection of first-degree
murder cases constructed by Ryan.

Students advocate these cases in moot
fashion. Testimonies for practice in
debating skills for direct and cross ex-
aminations are also included.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1970, Ryan developed the text from his
work with W&L’s forensics squad and
through teaching argumentation and
debate at W&L.

W&L- 25

 

 

Oa

 

 

 

ae:
games

 

SS
SS

fat : : SS

 

 

 

 

ee a
a f
ae

& x s = ‘3
1 y ay yi}

eel u

   

HOUSTON—Renewing acquaintances at the Houston Chapter’s mid-
summer reception for new students are (from left) Fred (Buzzy) Grif-
fin, °60; Jim Morefield, ’52L; and Buck Ogilvie, ’64.

RICHMOND—Richmond Chapter officers are shown with two enter-
ing freshmen who attended a barbecue in August. From left, Ware
Palmer, ’82, treasurer; Bob Priddy, ’67, president; Jones Tyler, an

   

Livesay, ’69.

for new students.

entering freshman from Charles City, Va.; Amy Balfour, an entering
freshman from Richmond; and Channing Martin, ’75, ’79L.

of $200,000. Alumni Director Dick
Sessoms brought greetings from
Lexington.

The Washington Chapter gathered at
Episcopal High School in Alexandria,
Va., for a cocktail/buffet honoring the
new students. W&L President John D.
Wilson spoke to the gathering, which was
organized by Chapter President Beau
Dudley, ’74, ’79L.

The Cleveland Chapter held its recep-
tion at the Cleveland Clinic, where Dr.
John D. Battle Jr., ’34, and Thomas E.
Goss Jr., ’80, were hosts.

Charles F. Porzig, ’35, the Alumni
Admissions representative in northern
New Jersey, had entering students from
the Montclair, N.J., area to his home for
a reception in July.

Similar receptions were held by the
following chapters or in the following
areas: Florida West Coast,
Westchester/Fairfield, Tidewater,
Louisville, Long Island, and Shenandoah.

On the diamonds

Diamonds played a key role in the

summer activities of more than one
chapter.

Members of the Baltimore Chapter
descended on that city’s Memorial
Stadium in mid-July for the first annual
Virginia College Night sponsored by the
Baltimore Orioles. Alumni from other
Virginia institutions joined in the pre-
game picnic and then watched the Orioles
drop a 10-8 decision to the Chicago
White Sox.

Other chapters took to the diamonds
for softball games. Both the Atlanta and
San Antonio chapters battled their
counterparts from the University of the
South while the New Orleans Chapter
squared off against the W&L of the
North, Harvard. No results were
available at presstime.

Barbecues to banquets

The Rockbridge Chapter gathered at
Skylark, the University’s mountaintop
retreat on the Blue Ridge Parkway for a
picnic in late July.

The Richmond Chapter imported
North Carolina barbecue from Rocky
Mount and conducted its second annual

HOUSTON—A ttending the Houston Chapter meeting this summer
were (from left) Allan and Pat Tomlin, ’69, and Jim and Robin

   

   
  

. Zi ke

WASHINGTON—President John D. Wilson (right foreground) talks
with Pete Straub, 61, ’64L, at the Washington Chapter’s reception

mid-summer barbecue in early August at
the restored Kanawha Locks. Bob Prid-
dy, ’67, president of the chapter, organiz-
ed the gathering with assists from Chan-
ning Martin, ’75, ’79L, vice president;
Pres Rowe, ’60, secretary; and Ware
Palmer, ’82, treasurer.

In Hagerstown, Md., the Cumberland
Valley Chapter observed its annual dinner
in mid-August. William M. Schildt, ’64,
°68L, the chapter president, presided at
the function, which featured a report on
the University by John Elrod, dean of
the College.

The Middle Tennessee Chapter held a
meeting in August at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Clay T. Jackson, ’76. Buddy
Atkins, ’68, associate alumni director,
and Milburn Noell, ?51, ’54L, associate
director of development, represented the
University at the party.

The Upper Potomac Chapter’s annual
dinner was held in late August at the
Cumberland, Md., Country Club. Al
Darby, ’43, is president of the chapter,
which made a contribution to the Heart
Fund in memory of the late Billy Wilson,
38.

W&L 27

 

 

- = - - Me 7 - a - - on e . 7 7 Bn a a >
- 7 7
- - . .
- - - .
- - - 3
- -
/
>
oF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- .
+
.
+ - .
. .-
.
- -
* , -
: oe
- a
" x . 7
.
.
os
/ - -
= oe -
-
- : . -
+
i -
.
- -
-
—
a
+
«
. :
- "
. 7
- 7
;
_.*
. - 7
~
.
a
-
7
- 7
: : -
- .
a
‘
-
i.
.

 

   
  
 
  

 

 

1940

Richard W. Boisseau has retired as executive direc-
tor of the Appomattox Basin Industrial Develop-
ment Corp. in Petersburg, Va. Boisseau and his
wife, Babs, have moved to Lancaster, Va., which
is in the Northern Neck area.

1942

Samuel F. Ciener retired from his family’s 76-year-
old clothing store in January 1985.

1943

Donald J. Crawford has retired after more than
33 years of service with State Farm Insurance
Companies. He lives in Frederick, Md.

1944

In June Earle Palmer Brown was appointed by the
governor of Maryland to the 12-member board of
trustees of St. Mary’s College of Maryland. Brown
is the chairman of Earle Palmer Brown and
Associates, the largest public relations and adver-
tising agency in the Middle Atlantic region, and
is active in sports and community activities in the
Bethesda area.

Howard N. Greenblatt has formed Corporate Real
Estate, Inc. in Chicago, to provide corporations
and institutions real estate services in such areas
as construction, management, marketing, finan-
cing, etc.

A. Linwood Holton, former governor of Virginia,
has retired as vice president and general counsel
of the American Council of Life Insurance to join
the Washington law firm of Zuckert, Scoutt,
Rasenberger and Johnson.

William McIndoe Jr. is retired from the Califor-
nia state government.

1945

Collier Wenderoth, president of O. K. Feed Mills
since 1950, is now chairman of the new O. K.
Industries.

1950

Douglas I. Buck has been joined by his son,
Douglas I. Buck II, in the law firm, Buck and
Mangapora.

Barnett Robinson Jr. moved his law office to Coral
Gables, Fla. Robinson is a partner in the firm of
Robinson & Greenberg, P.A., and has been prac-
ticing law in Dade County, Fla., for the past 25
years.

1951

Robert H. Brown was the overall winner in the
Eighth Annual Volunteer of the Year Awards
sponsored by Volunteer Kingsport (Tenn.). Brown
works in the research lab at Tennessee Eastman
in Kingsport. His volunteer award was for his work
counseling prisoners and ex-offenders. He has been
involved in the prison ministry for about 12 years
and played a leading role in the creation and opera-
tion of Hay House, a Kingsport residence for ex-
prisoners. Brown, his wife, Beverly, and their four
sons lives in Kingsport.

Pike Hall Jr. is chief judge of the Louisiana Court
of Appeals’ second circuit. He has served on the
court since 1971 and was recently re-elected
without opposition to a new 10-year term.

Richard B. Taylor has sold his burglar alarm
business. He is retired and now lives in Las Vegas.

William G. White is district manager of operator
services for AT&T Communications in Tulsa,

Okla.
1952

Richard G. Ballard has begun a second career—
the automobile business—in Baltimore.

1953

John W. Dodd Jr. has become general manager
of the poultry business unit for the Campbell Soup
Co. Formerly business director of Red and White
Soups, Dodd joined Campbell in 1955 as an assis-
tant to the general promotion manager and has
held numerous marketing and advertising positions
with the company. He and his wife, Jane, have
five children. They live in Haddonfield, N.J.

James M. Gabler, a Baltimore attorney, has writ-
ten a book, Wine into Words, A History and
Bibliography of Wine Books in the English
Language. His work lists and describes more than
3,350 entries and gives biographical sketches of
prominent wine writers. It was published by Bac-

chus Press Ltd.
1955

David W. McCain has moved to Atlanta where
he is vice president of development for Portman

Barry Investments.
1956

Douglas I. Buck (See 1950.)

1958

MARRIAGE: Samuel C. Dudley and Anne
Whitaker Gilliam on Feb. 3, 1985, in Richmond.
P. B. Winfree III, ’59, was best man. Dudley is
with Branch Cabell and Co., a Richmond invest-
ment house. The couple resides in Richmond.

Thomas F. King is executive vice president of
Treco Communities, Inc., a real estate develop-
ment subsidiary of Sunstates Corporation in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Nelson S. Teague has been appointed president of
the medical staff of Community Hospital of
Roanoke, Va. Teague has a practice in urology

surgery.
1959

After nine years as headmaster of Linden Hall
School in Lititz, Pa., John H. Esperian has
become headmaster of St. Mark’s School in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr. was chairman of the
University Faculty Council at the University of
Richmond during the 1984-85 academic year. A
professor of law at Richmond’s T.C. Williams
School of Law, Shepherd was appointed chairman
of the Virginia Justice Services Board by Virginia
Governor Charles Robb.

1960

Barry M. Fox is president of Barry Fox Associates,
Ltd., in New Orleans, where he lives with his wife
and two children.

A. Eugene O’Dell Jr. is now living in Lakeland,
Fla., where he is district manager for the Social
Security Administration.

1961

John R. Farmer has been named general partner
in the investment banking firm of Goldman, Sachn
and Co. He is head of the firm’s West Coast fix-
ed income department, based in San Francisco.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr. (See 1959.)

1962

Charles E. Gay has been promoted to senior vice
president of account management with Doremus
and Company in New York City. He lives in Stan-
ford, Conn., with his wife and two children.

1963

Craig T. Distelhorst is president of the Benjamin
Franklin Savings Association in Houston. He lives
in Kingwood, Texas.

Stephen H. Stull handles management consulting
with correspondent financial institutions for
Citibank in Seattle. He lives with his family in Issa-
quah, Wash.

1964

MARRIAGE: Alonzo Atkins Jr. and Julie
Hurlbut in September 1984. Atkins is vice presi-
dent of engineering for Ordain, Inc., a newly form-
ed company that develops and manufactures rela-
tional data-base computers. They live in Long
Beach, Calif.

Britain H. Bryant has been practicing law for 20
years in Christiansted, St. Croix, the U. S. Virgin
Islands.

Brice R. Gamber has completed a two-year term
as chairman of the Minnesota Insurance Informa-
tion Center and continues to serve as a director
of the center. He lives in Minneapolis.

John H. Kirkley practices law in New York and
is pastor of the Unification Church of Hempstead,
N.Y. He and his wife, Marie-France, have three
daughters, Sunnie Marie, 6, Gabriella, 4, and
Sophia, 2.

Thomas C. Lewis is a second-year resident in
anesthesiology at Vanderbilt University Hospital
in Nashville, Tenn.

1965

Larry M. Meeks is a founding partner in the Los
Angeles law firm of Pircher, Nichols and Meeks.

Michael J. Michaeles has opened his own general
law practice in Worcester, Mass. He specializes in
business litigation and was named Massachusetts
Lawyer Advocate of the Year for 1983 by the Small
Business Administration. He and his wife, Gay,
a psychiatric specialist, live in Bolton.

Woodard D. Openo lives in Somersworth, N.H.,
where he is researching and restoring his house,
which was built in 1850. He does architectural
research for National Historic Register nomina-
tions and similar purposes.

1967

MARRIAGE: Aron L. Suna and Marjorie
Morgan on May 12, 1985, in New York. He is with
Suna Brothers, Inc., a jewelry manufacturer and
diamond importer in New York.

James W. Elliott Jr. of Bristol, Va., was among
12 Virginia lawyers elected to the governing council
of the 18,700-member Virginia State Bar, the ad-
ministrative arm of the Supreme Court of Virginia
responsible for regulating the practice of law in
the Commonwealth. A member of the firm of
White, Elliott & Bundy, he was president of the
Bristol Bar Association in 1983-84 and has been
actively involved with the Local Government At-
torneys of Virginia and the Conference of Local
Bar Associations.

W&L 29

 

 

 

 

 

J. Mac Holladay, executive vice e president of the

Charleston, S.C., Trid Jent Chamber of Commerce,
is moving to Columbia, S.C., to become director
of the South | Carolina Development Board.

Dr. John R. McG Gill has bee

the Penobscot County Medical Associ
1985-86. He has a private practice in plastic and
reconstructive surgery in Be angor, Maine. —

Giancarlo Marchetti ntly was trans

Proctor & Gamble hea sadquarters i in Cincinnati after
spending most of his business career with Proctor
& Gamble in Mexico, Argentina, and his native
Italy. _

   

 

   
  
 

 

asa commissioner r oft 1
and Exchange Comm

 

id D. Kympton is executive vice “e president of
| Mesa ‘Industries | of Opeli / mall
manufacturer of plasti

pubuea: 8 Ala. Oo

 
  

Australia, | to Brus ley Belgium, wh

 

Belgium. —

Donald Cc. ‘Smith i is an ecologist with the Office |
mental Policy for the Federal Highway |

of Environ

30

 

 

en elected president of ;
ation for

| and board of denisery uding the bom ; ay in
the Washington law offices of Sidley and ‘Austin.

- Dotson, ‘in January | 1985 in’ anne Cc

ne general manager of Manufactt ar ers Hanover

Administration i in , Washi agton. He and his wite
Diane, live in Fairfax, Va.

- Aron L. Suna (See 1967. )

John}

 

A. Zink III (See 1967.)

MARRIAGE: David B. Galt Jr. and Alice Walz
on Aug. 11, 1984, in St. Louis. Robert Gill, °71, 7
was a groomsman.

  
 

 

   
 
    
  
  
 
 
     
 

il ly rek t tions operant in Ma

  
  
  
    
 

a a private pra ce as |
ly lives in Greensb TO, N. c.

BIR TH: Mr. :
a son, Claib

 

 
 

Donald E. I

  

‘aris forn red anew law firm, Earls and

   
  
 
 
  
 

W ley Hale Stores. .. He lives in North Brunswick,

H, 1. Drake Leddy b has left ‘Arthur. Andersen Com-
pan San exas » to p become Se senior vice

 
 
   
 
 
  

n Kaiserslautern, West t Germany.

 
  

degree i in research and development management
from the American ‘University, where he was
selected as the Outstanding Graduate Scholar of
the Year i in the College of Public and International
Affairs. He is currently the adn
for the Cancer Therapy I Evaluation Program, the
largest chemical re.
for the National Cancer Institute in B
He lives in Washington,

1972 —

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Tennent Houston, a 4
daughter, Alice Sanders, on June 6, 1985,

 

 
     

Augusta, Ga. Houston is president of Merry and

 

a tate develop I sment and! Inc., a public 2 OV m ec ed | real

 

Id development and

N Maj. ( Gordon S. Macrae i is s the chief of i intelligence
and heed for the 29th Area Support Group of

linistrative officer

arch program in the world,
ethesda, Md.

J. Hudson Allender is practicing pediatric car-
diology in Fort Worth, Texas. |

Peter F. Davi ison is owner and administrator of

_a Montessori school for children ages three to nine

in Beaverton, Ore. He is president of the Oregon
Montessori Association. Davidson and his wife,
Mary, have four children ranging in age from four
to 10.

w. McKenzie Woodward is + staf f architectural
historian for the Rhode Island Historical Preser-
vation Commission. He recently completed a book
on the lea ae of Providence, where he lives.
Woodward is on the vestry of St. Martin’s Church,
the corporation of the Providence Public Library,
the board of trustees of the Providence Preserva-
tion Society, and the board of directors of Hill
Realty.

 

Millard S. Younts is with Chapman Associates,
a nationwide radio and television brokerage firm

in Washington.
197 3

BIRTH: Rev. and Mrs. Frederick E. moron a
son, Benjamin Brodie, on July 28, 1985,

Grahar am, N. C. Roberts is minister of the Mount
Herman United Methodist Church in Graham 1.

   
 

 

‘is H: mary duties are law enforce-
ment and supervision of search and rescue opera-
tions in the Washington, D. C., ar 2a. He lives with
his wife, Anne, a nd t two sons, Sean and Grah am,
in Glen Echo, Md.

Paul C. Archer is general manager of Cavalier

Beverage Co., Inc., a wholesale beer distributor-
ship in Charlottesville, Va. a

 

      

 

  

Virginia Governor Charles ‘Robb | ‘appointed
Michael Campil longo to the State Advisory Council
of the National Leg ‘Services Corp.

J. Jason Matthews i is vice const al at the American
Embassy in Budaps st where he is in charge | of is-
suing immigrant and special visas and providing
citizen services. Matthews and his wife completed
a tour in Madrid and a year’s instruction at the
state © eeparement s ‘Foreign Language Institute.

   

   

 

 

 

| president- “trading for The Westeap Corp., a na-

tional securities firm headquartered 1 in Houston,
where he lives. ©

Timothy S. Wright is now com! nissioner in
chancery for the Circuit Court of Chesapeake.

1974 |

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Dennis C. Gilchrist, a
Dennis cont eee, Mallory, on ede 24, 1985.

   

 

    
   
 
 
    
   

tnanaeer with the ‘Richt ima vd af
Waterhouse. / " =
Capt. David V. “Fim el ' as be
Army for promotion ton najo r.

 

 

Hospital ¢ of Coal on n ss F |
tient facility that cc conce trates o on the t treatment of

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

.

fal n ily lives in Tuite K ky. oe
d Mrs. Thomas A. ‘Price, a son, % F Rook a bm rin a
Penfi mn N 3, 1985 in Jamestown, N. Y. in the 7 mat ee ~ engine
He joins two sisters. Oo Capt. Sydney D. F. Farrar has left the Army an
In July 1984, Marshall M. Barroll was promoted moved to Si Silver Ciy, N. c. He works for Silver
to © captain i in a the U. nya Air Force. Since then he ‘has | o

 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 
   

   

   

 

Michael D. O. Lavitt i isa apa editor ms New
York Videotex, a New York Times company. |

Scott | G. i Mam is : sales repr res entative for

Vi yW Te
quarters at Racine,

    
  

leg ge in May. 1985, ‘and i is “vice. . presi lent. “of
marketi ng for a computer software distributor i in
Baltimore. He and his wife, Sandy, just built their
first home in Lutherville, Md.

 

 

  

    

assigned in Wes Germany. — a -
Christoph T. Port r a stockbroker for Smith
é 7, Harris, 1 » Inc. in a“ Oe

 

     
   
 
   
    
  
  
  

ham the hey vein Nash mus,
on, |] I 128, Seri om New Bonk is om the i
cans aioe is in n the sad year ¢ of a sian

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. chee. _ n,
ty n, 0 on n May 19, 1985, in | Levittow N.Y.

 
 
  

drew ‘Blas, ‘on March 4, 1985. gehen
torney with the firm of B elle, Seltzer
via in Charlotte, N.C. He

lemé aKS and. copyn g hts. .

      
  

   

which ‘merged with her "former ‘firm ‘ot
M -Candlish, Lillard and Rust | in n July 1984. |

 

Diego . He moved nh J aly.

 

Capt. Gilbert H. Pearsall Jr. has been assigned for
duty at Fort Be ing, Ga. He was previously. Bae gd

 

 

 

 

 

fel i

 

Capt. James F. Berl has transferred to Fort
Stewart, Ga., as a trial counsel for the office of
the Staff Judge Advocate of the 24th Infantry
Division. He lives in Hinesville, Ga.

Thomas K. Coates, certified public accountant,
earned his law degree from the University of
Baltimore law school in June 1985.

Kevin B. Dwyer graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Law in May. He is now an
associate in the Washington office of Mudge Rose
Guthrie Alexander and Ferdon, a New York law
firm. Dwyer concentrates on international trade
with an Asian emphasis.

Randolph B, George is a group life counselor
working with emotionally disturbed adolescents at
the National Children’s Rehabilitation Center in
Leesburg, Va. He lives in Brunswick, Md.

John S. Hastings is a copy editor on the news desk
of The Times-Picayune/The States-Item in New
Orleans.

David A. Lewis earned an LL.M. degree in bank-
ing law from the Boston University School of Law
in May 1985. He works for the legal department
of Chemical Bank in New York.

George A. Polizos entered the M.B.A. program
at William and Mary in September. He has been
an advertising and public relations account ex-
ecutive for Arthur Polizos Associates, Inc. in
Norfolk.

Alexis V. Richards works in commercial insurance
sales for W. D. Campbell and Son, Inc. in Lynch-
burg. He specializes in insurance for service and
manufacturing industries in the area.

James K. Vines entered Washington and Lee’s
School of Law in August. He had been an accoun-
tant with Price Waterhouse & Co. in Washington,
D.C.

1982

MARRIAGE: Ensign Bruce C. Jones and Linda
S. Zech on Aug. 26, 1984, in Alexandria, Va.
Classmate Mark Beamer was a groomsman. Jones
completed U.S. Navy flight training in June 1985
and is now stationed with the U.S. Coast Guard
in Houston.

MARRIAGE: Dale F. Park and Kathy Stone on
July 6, 1984, in Annapolis, Md. Classmates attend-
ing were Bill Whalen, Gary Johnson, Jay Harris,
and Chris Coogan. Park is working on a combina-
tion law and M.B.A. degree at the University of
South Carolina.

BIRTH: Susan May Eckman and Richard P.
Eckman, a daughter, Elizabeth Anna, on Feb. 24,
1985, in Wilmington, Del.

David Black is senior staff writer for the Atlanta
Business Chronicle.

David R. Cordell received his law degree from the
University of Oklahoma and is an associate with
the Tulsa law firm of Conner and Winters.

Barry R. Dunn was a summer intern for the Chase
Manhattan Bank. He is a second year M.B.A. stu-
dent at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke
University.

William Dupree is a third-year law student at the
University of Georgia.

John W. McIntyre Jr. has entered Harvard
Business School to work on an M.B.A. He spent
three years with Chemical Bank of New York.

Eric T. Myers graduated in May from the

Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary. He is an associate with the
Newport News law firm of Jones, Blechman,
Woltz and Kelly.

1st Lt. Kelly J. Niernberger completed his tour in
Turkey and is now reconnaissance and survey of-
ficer for the howitzer battery, Ist Squadron, 2 Ar-
mored Cavalry Regiment, in Bindlach, West Ger-
many. He lives in Bayreuth near Ist Lt. Russ Rec-
tor, ’82.

Charles F. Randolph is a credit analyst for Texas
Commerce Bank in Houston. He earned his
M.B.A. from the University of Oklahoma.

Kenneth X. Warren joined the Baltimore law firm
of Semmes, Bowen and Semmes as an associate
in September.

Daniel L. Weiss was promoted to assistant vice
president and head of the USA/Canada region in
the international division of the National Bank of
Washington. He is responsible for the bank’s-trade
finance activities and credit administration for the

division.
1983

MARRIAGE: Thomas A. Harrison and Laurie
Beth Tuttle on June 29, 1985, in Erie, Pa.
Classmates Chris Kibler and Jim Hess attended.
Harrison is city desk editor for the Corry (Pa.)
Evening Journal. The Harrisons live in Corry.

MARRIAGE: G. Martin Thomas and Patricia
Ann Embrey on Jan. 5, 1985. They live in
Salisbury, Md., where Thomas is a credit analyst
for Perdue Farms, Inc. He earned his M.S. in
financial management from Carnegie-Mellon
University in May 1985.

Michael J. Farr is in the staff judge advocate’s of-
fice at Tinker Air Force Base, Okla. He specializes
in government contract law.

V. Jay Fechtel is a vice president with Schaffer
Properties, Inc. of Tampa, Fla. The firm is involv-
ed in real estate development and construction and
specializes in commercial renovation and historic
restorations.

David K. Friedfeld has joined his brother in Clear
Vision Optical Co., designers and manufacturers
of optical products and sunglasses headquartered
in West Hempstead, N.Y.

1st Lt. David P. Ridlon completed a tour of duty
in Korea in January 1985. He is now assistant in-
telligence officer for the Second Brigade, 82nd Air-
borne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C.

Edmund W. Schenecker II left the Fort Worth
Chamber of Commerce in January 1985 and in
March began work as a career agent with Connec-
ticut Mutual Life in Fort Worth.

Christopher D. Schram has been promoted to area
account executive with Coca-Cola USA and was
transferred to San Antonio, Texas.

Jackson R. Sharman III attended the Institute for
European Studies in Geneva on a Rotary Inter-
national Scholarship. He received a Certificate in
European Studies upon completion of his work.
Sharman had a short story, ‘‘Seance,’’ published
in the summer 1984 edition of Southern Review.
He lives in Montgomery, Ala.

M. Thompson Rattray (See 1984.)

1984

MARRIAGE: Gregory L. Flentje and Joanne
Gentry on Aug. 18, 1985, in Mt. Vernon, Ill. Flen-
tje is a graduate student in communications and

medicine at the University of Illinois.

MARRIAGE: 2nd Lt. Stephen J. A. Smith and
Elizabeth Blair Clark on Feb. 9, 1985, in Norfolk,
Va. Smith is the battalion communications officer
with the U.S. Army’s 9th Engineer Battalion in
Aschaffenburg, West Germany.

BIRTH: Joy Mallick Rattray and M. Thompson
Rattray, a daughter, Emily Joy, on April 12, 1985,
in Reston, Va.

David B. Arnold is a staff accountant with Ar-
thur Anderson and Co. in New Orleans.

Catherine N. Currin earned her law degree from
the University of Virginia in May 1984 and is now
working on U. S. Constitutional law for a federal
judge in New York.

Ellis B. Drew III is an associate in the Winston-
Salem office of Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge and
Rice, a North Carolina law firm which also has
offices in Charlotte and Raleigh.

Foster S. B. Friedman is a first-year law student
at Boston University. He had been a supervisor
in the retail services division of the Martha’s
Vineyard National Bank.

Joseph E. Mamo III has left Dean Witter Reynolds
to join Peers and Co. Merchant Bank, a new firm
providing counselling in mergers, acquisitions, and
investment as principal. He lives in New York.

After spending a year in Colorado, Martin E.
Manasco is working on his M.B.A. at Texas Chris-
tian University in Fort Worth.

Charles W. Mason is chief photographer for the
Daily News-Miner in Fairbanks, Alaska.

Charles M. Plumly II left Merrill Lynch Pierce
Fenner & Smith, Inc. in June to become account
executive wih Johnston, Lernon and Co. in
Washington, D.C. He lives in McLean, Va.

2nd Lt. Parker B. Schenecker is an electronic war-
fare platoon leader in the 312th Military In-
telligence Battalion of the Ist Cavalry Division at
Fort Hood, Texas.

As part of his master’s degree study in interna-
tional business at the University of South Carolina,
C. David Schroeder has a seven-month internship
with the accounting firm of Touche-Ross in
Frankfurt, West Germany.

2nd Lt. Donald B. Smith graduated from the Air
Defense Artillery Officer’s basic course and is sta-
tioned at Fort Bliss, Texas.

John E. Taylor III is a marketing representative
for the business systems group of Xerox Corp. in
Century City, Calif. He lives in Santa Monica.

M. Eugene Wood III is a corporate banking
representative and industrial development officer
for Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Asheville,
N.C.

1985

Virginia M. Greer is a trust and investment
management trainee with the Trust Company Bank
in Atlanta.

William R. Mauck Jr. is clerking for Justice A.
Christian Compton, 750, ’53L, of the Virginia
Supreme Court.

Craig N. Waddell was approved in the spring by
the foreign mission board of the Southern Bap-
tist Convention to be one of 69 journeymen, col-
lege graduates under 27 years old who go overseas
to work alongside career missionaries. He will be
a youth worker in Linz, Austria.

W&L 33

 

 

 

:
.
a ae
ft _
ay
~
; ee -
"+ — i SS
es tg ye - f° : a
_ a ree | +o . _ |
a - a - _ - i ' a SS 7 7
ae i ' a re ; /
Oo - aes oT a oe ee a ; : ; / ;

a
+

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1944

Everett Joseph Schneider Jr. died July 17, 1985,
in Virginia Beach, Va. He was a senior vice presi-
dent of Sovran Bank at the time of his death. At
the end of World War II, he was employed by
Peoples Bank in Buena Vista, Va. He later became
associated with First National Bank of Buena
Vista, which merged with Virginia National Bank.
He was transferred to the home office of Virginia
National in Norfolk about 18 years ago.

1950

William Iverson Boswell, owner of The Enterprise
Company, a lumber firm, died in March 1985.
Boswell lived in Savannah, Ga.

1951

Alvin Nicholls Wartman, a prominent Las Vegas
attorney for three decades and former district court
judge, died July 29, 1985, in Las Vegas. As a
young lawyer in Las Vegas from 1952 to 1958,
Wartman was associated with the late attorney
William Coulthard. He later went into indepen-
dent private practice and remained in that status
for most of his professional career, except for a
one-year partnership with attorney John Laxalt.
For a time, beginning in 1969, he was also a part-
ner in the law firm of Lionel, Collins and Sawyer.
Wartman was on the Southern Nevada Memorial
Hospital board of trustees from 1957 to 1961, serv-
ed a one-year term as president of the Clark Coun-
ty Association for Mental Health, and was twice
chairman of the Clark County Cancer Crusade.
He was chairman of other charities and civic
groups and was a longtime member of the board
of directors and executive committee of St. Jude’s
Ranch for Children in Boulder City.

1973

Raymond Ransom Averett died April 14, 1985.

1977

Everett Levoy McHan died Feb. 23, 1985, in
Roanoke, Va.

1982

Stuart Parker Neff died July 9, 1985, in Louisville,
Ky. He was an employee of the commercial loan
department of First National Bank. He was a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Carlon Martin O’Malley III died April 21, 1985,
in an automobile accident. O’ Malley was a native
of Pennsylvania.

1985

James (Jay) R. Wingert III died Aug. 25, 1985,
in an automobile accident in Dallas, where he was
employed by Arthur Andersen & Co. A native of
Hanover, Pa., he received the bachelor of science
in commerce degree in June. He was active in the
Brass and Percussion Ensemble and was treasurer
of Mu Beta Psi music fraternity. He was the son
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert Wingert Jr., ’54, of
Hanover.

1986

Albert Paul Knight died in June 1985 during a
climbing accident in Yellowstone National Park.
A graduate of Sewickley (Pa.) Academy, he was
majoring in sociology/anthropology. He was a
member of the Outing Club and Phi Kappa Psi
social fraternity. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Albert F. Knight, ’51L, of Warren, N.J.

And Furthermore

 

EDITOR:

I have just returned my 1985 alumni trustee
ballot and I am grateful for the opportunity to vote
for a new member of the Board of Trustees.

I do, however, have two comments about the
election process that I would like to pass on. First,
it seems to me that each nominee should be asked
to make a statement as to what he or she sees to
be the chief issues with which he or she would like
to see the Board engage itself and what his or her
general views are as to overall University policies.
While I am sure that all nominees are well-
qualified, it would give us a better ‘‘feel’’ for the
candidates’ outlook about Washington and Lee.
(Incidentally, such statements are made by alum-
ni candidates at a number of other institutions.)

Second, it seems to me that the president of
the Alumni Association ought to notify all alum-
ni that he or she is appointing a committee to
choose nominees and that suggestions for possi-
ble candidates could be forwarded to him or the
chairman of the committee. In this way, perhaps,
some well-qualified candidates might come to the
attention of the committee who, under the present
system, could be overlooked. The Alumni Associa-
tion already does this in developing its nominees
for the Alumni Board, so why not use the same
procedure for the trustee nominations?

Finally, while on the subject of the Board of
Trustees, I want to congratulate the present Board
on its courage and wisdom in making the decision
in favor of coeducation. Somewhat belatedly, I
would also like to express my thanks to Tom
Touchton for his fine analysis of the problem,
published some time ago in the Alumni Magazine.
As an early advocate of a positive decision on
coeducation, I am glad to see that it is already hav-
ing excellent results!

WILLIAM C. WILBUR, 737
St. Petersburg, Fla.

EDITOR:

Because silence amounts to tacit approval and
I do not approve of the implementation of
coeducation at Washington and Lee, I must write
and make my position known, even if there be no
benefit other than the placation of my own
conscience.

Even to discuss the possibility of women on
the campus bringing about academic dilution is idle
and I have been shocked that any alumnus would
entertain the prospect. Sound minds and clear
thinking are not the exclusive properties of the XY
genotype. Indeed, it is universally accepted in this
country that to go half as far in the business and
professional world a woman must be twice as
good; and those of us who have competed against
them ‘at graduate levels know that usually it is the
girl in the class who has to be bested for standing,
honors, etc. These bright ladies are also much more
attractively packaged than their male counterparts
and can only further grace the shaded lawns and
colonnades of W&L. Readily recognizing then the
benefits which the distaff might bring to our
school, it must be added that they do not justify
the action of the decision-makers if they would
constitute the total gain.

What about tradition? Well, traditions are
great, but it has been my observation that you rare-
ly hear them spoken of by any but the aging and
frankly old. Of course we post-World War II
undergraduates remember with fondness the time
and special kind of grace that engraved it in our
memories. It must be remembered, however, that
in 2025, when the balding, hypertensive males of
the Class of ’86 have their ingathering, they will
remember with equal fondness the year the girls
came to Washington and Lee. No, it’s still true
that the only thing constant is change, and tradi-
tion is the ultimate poor excuse for doing, or not
doing, anything.

What, then, is my complaint? Specifically, it
is that the decision-makers, with considerable
sound and fury, have gone about fixing something
which was never broken and then, all their
garment-rending and breast-beating notwithstand-
ing, came up with the wrong answer to this
theoretical exercise by following the path of sheer
convenience. Falling SAT scores during the period
in question were a national phenomenon and the
fault of basic education below the collegiate level,
and it was at that level that course corrections were
indicated. This was recognized and since ap-
propriate measures have been taken it is now ap-
parent that admission test scores are again on the
rise. Given the validity of the ‘‘crisis’’ as the good
men on the Board perceived it, however, one can
only wonder what alternative courses of action
they might have considered had W&L already been
coeducational. Did they even consider such alter-
natives? If so, they were publicized little if at all.
That such viable options did, and do, exist is at-
tested to by the fact that other schools have con-
tinued without academic compromise or sweep-
ing changes in policy.

Pragmatic and going with the drift of things,
our Board relied upon computer-generated ‘‘risk
assessments’’ and ‘‘cost-benefit analyses’’ to
reduce problems of choice to problems of grade-
school computation. Their final decision was tren-
dy, cute, totally lacking in originality, and dead
wrong.

How ironical that by their action the Board has
destroyed the one thing they sought most to
preserve: the unique character of the school as a
small, quality enclave of all male students. Now,
size alone will distinguish it from the other quali-
ty educational institutions in this country and, the
American people being what they are, small size
is rarely considered a virtue.

Addressing the subject of quality, I think it
needs to be said that we must guard against self-
proclaimed superiority. It is always suspect and
usually with good reason. Goodness, whether in
a school or in a person, doesn’t have to be adver-
tised; it is communicated by what the person or
institution does and produces and gives back to
the world. Washington and Lee has certainly
always given back much and I am sure will con-
tinue to do so in the future. This will be true
without all the hype, and I would be pleased if the
PR men were given severance pay and sent off to
be hired by a soap company or someone else who
can really use their not inconsiderable talent.

W&L 35

 

 

ibution and use

 

Oo

A
i

HE BS AE te yy eae

 

 

 

 

 

WaSHtuee .
. ae. : uN e %

 

 

ee ere OO VEE TOE wwe

‘

wer

{149 WASHINGTON
> — ~~

ano LEE UNIVERSITY [949
:_ y=

     

 

   

 

~—-
Ne Nite i
*

en

   

», ppt mass east ***eananamen

 

 

A1 Full zip sweatshirt by
QUADRO with navy trim. 50%
cotton/50% polyester. Grey
only. Sizes S,M,L,XL. $22.95
A2 WA&L stamp T-shirt from
CHAMPION. 100% cotton.
Choose from yellow, white,
powder blue. Sizes S, M, L,
XL. $6.95

A2b Not shown: a towel with the

stamp! 39°’ by 21°’ white only. $7.95

A3_ T-shirt with W&L and crest by

VELVA SHEEN. 50% polyester/38%
cotton/12% rayon. Colors are grey with

navy crest or white with navy crest.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $7.95

A4 Children’s T-shirt
by VELVA SHEEN as
above. 50% cotton/
90% polyester. Colors
are navy with white
crest, grey with

navy crest or white
with navy crest.

sizes XS (2-4),

S (6-8),

M (10-12),

L (14-16).

$5.95

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Th.

 

 

 

Rerasecssenteesensnmnee

  

 

A5 ‘‘DUBYUHNELL”’ (say it out
loud.) T-shirt by WOLF. 50%
cotton/50% polyester. White only.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $6.95

  

 

   

&% 4. t* ey
ts a ee

et te eeette e's

* eo" f oe

   

 

 

   
 
   

 

 

 

A6 Shimmel shirt by WOLF. 50%

cotton/50% polyester. White only.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $11.95

 

 

 

 

A7 Shimmel shirt by CHAMPION.

100% nylon. Navy only.
sizes S, M, L, XL. $14.50

 

 

 

seus e See e288

eerrery YY
288 8 88 8 8 8 FFF Fe we wee eS
ee 8 8 888 tere e ee eee 8 ee es
ets
»* + 7%

 

 

A8 Shimmel shirt by CHAMPION.
100% nylon. White only.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $13.95

W&L 37

  

 

Unlined. 35% cotton/65% dacron.
Cream with navy embroidery.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $29.95

B2 Ladies’ Extra-long sweatshirt by
WOLF. 50% cotton/50% acrylic.
Choose from raspberry or aqua.
Sizes S, M, L. $17.95

B3 W&L BEAR. Choose from grey,
tan, or white complete with royal
sweater & hat. $12.75.

B4 Wé&L Baby bib with 3 color crest.

$3.99.

B5 Scarf by June Critchfield 10°’ x
40’’ with W&L scenes. Polyester
crepe. $12.00.

B6 Four button sweater by ARTEX.
50% cotton/50% polyester. White
| only. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $29.95.

B1 Golf jacket by SPORTSMASTER.

B7 The W&L crest in counted cross
Stitch. Kit includes fabric, instructions
and embroidery floss. $9.99.

B8 The Colonnade in a 14 x 14

needlepoint kit. Yarns are 100% wool.

$29.95.

B9 Three button golf shirt by
CASUAL KNITS. 50% cotton/50%
polyester. Choose from navy with grey
embroidery or white with navy em-
broidery. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $17.95.

B10 Lost your College Ring? Ask us
for information and prices on a new
one. We deal with ARTCARVED and
JOSTEN. Tradition or Signet available
in a variety of styles.

B11 Football jersey by VELVA
SHEEN. 60% cotton/40% nylon.
Choose from grey or white.

Sizes S, M, L, XL. $18.95.

B12 Blazer Buttons from BEN
SILVER. Blue and white enamel on
gold plate. $49.95 set.

 

 

 

 

B7

Vw

P Washington and Lee

Bee

A ss University

Za

 

 

en
got

 

 

 

 

B10

 

 

 

 

 

 

B13 Hooded sweatshirt with navy
crest and W&L by ARTEX. 50%
polyester/38% cotton/12% rayon.
Grey only. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $21.95.

B14 Only two universities have their
own stamp — and WA&L is one! Three
sizes to choose from in their own
frames. Single-$9.95, 5x7 $19.95, and
8x10 $29.95.

B15 Our heaviest sweatshirt and the
most popular by CHAMPION. 80%
cotton/8% acrylic/3% rayon. Grey
only. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $31.95.

B16 MEN’S W&L WATCHES: Three
color crest on a watch dial. Quartz
with calendar feature, metal band.
$70.00.

B17 MEN’S W&L WATCHES: Three
color crest, quartz, round face,
leather-look strap. $60.00.

 

 

%\ WASHIN
“Ae UNIVERSITY

, | sg

 

B18 Our heaviest hooded sweatshirt
by CHAMPION. 89% cotton/

8% acrylic/3% rayon. Choose from
grey or navy. Sizes S, M, L, XL.
$39.95.

B19 WOMEN’S W&L WATCHES:
Three color crest, quartz, round face,
leather-look strap, $50.00.

B19A WOMEN’S W&L WATCHES:
Three color crest on a dial watch.
Quartz with calendar feature, metal
band. $65.00.

B20 Sweatshirt by VELVA SHEEN
with the Generals’ heads. 50%
acrylic/50% cotton. Colors are grey or
navy. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $13.95.

B21 Country Club Hat. One size with
adjustable strap. Navy only. $8.95.

 

 

 

 

 

 

B14

 

 

 

 

psp

INEST

 

   

 

 

= NTN?

   

 

B22 WA&L TIE: AT LAST, A W&L
SILK TIE! Navy or grey with white
crest. $21.95.

B23 WA&L TIE: Silk/polyester tie with
Colonnade. Navy with red stripes
$17.95.

B24 WA&L belt. One size fits all.
Choose from navy, grey, or tan.
$17.95.

B25 WA&L pencils. Assorted colors.
$3.50 dozen.

B26 W&L matches. 6 pack. 4 for
$1.00.

B27 W&L Somebody button. $1.00.
B28 W&L Logo button. $1.00.

B29 WA&L disposable lighter. Assorted
colors. $1.69.

B30 WAL self-adhesive 3 color crest .69
B31 W&L Law School decal .69

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B32 ‘‘DUBYUHNELL’’ bumper
Sticker .79

B33 W&L /S THE University bumper
Sticker .79

B34 General license plate holder
$3.95 each

B35 Wé&L charm. 34’’ Cloisonne
charm with three color crest. $5.25.

B35

 

 

   
  
 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee IS THE
University of Virginia
B33

DUBYUHNELL

B32

 

pA RESO
on ON

     
 
  

 

4 Washington and Lee ;

Di ren sth
OLLINGER

CRENSHAW

   

7 ; gpeiere oe
. i Or > ee

Pe 3 aoe” “ + xy BB geese 1 Riss, i

Sat ee cent RNs en cree M in.

Be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

C9 W&L white or navy grain cups.
C4 | 5 for $3.00.
J C10 W2&L blue canhandler. $1.95.
C11 An enameled crest on brass,
mounted on walnut, ready to hang.
\ From Heritage Classics. $24.95.
4 C12 The enameled three color crest
with adhesive back. From Heritage
Classics. $18.95.
C13 Colonnade print by Rich Ahern.
Image sizes 4°’ x 12”’ and 8’ x 24”
C7 Smaller is $4.00 in black and white, |
; . or $38.95 hand tinted, double matted. |
| a biailen Wiens re ise Larger is $8.00 in black and white, or
| and Growth of Washington and © ee $62.95 hand tinted, double matted.
| University by late W&L History Depart- | |
| ment Chairman, Ollinger Crenshaw. _ €14 Etching by Christopher Bowring. |
Cloth $10.00. 10% discount to _ Framed, ready to hang. Image size 4° |
~ Alumni | x 8%". Finished size with frame
| C2 lee The Last Years signed by —— 12%2"'x18¥2"’. Monochrome $65.00, |
| _ Hand colored by artist $95.00. |
author, Charles B. Flood. W&L’s post- | C15 WAL St ‘ t b |
| Civil War development under Lee’s cul with it ill ve ids cut ‘or
_ Presidency, thoroughly and enjoyable we with white es to Ou on |
ee nl! _ discussed. Cloth $14.95. Paper $8.95. | iow srockat to. h id. up Tor One. Pip |
10% discount to Alumni. (Houghton- $18.95. et {0 noid your program.
Mifflin) | a
| ;  €16 WA&L Bag for all reasons: Ideal
C3 Lee and Grant by Gene Smith. ys |
Excellent new book on the central Civil | [0" tallgating, contains a square ice
C9 C10} War figures. ‘‘Belongs on the shelf bucket and inside compartments.
next to Douglas S. Freeman's Lee” $35.95,
| Paper $10.95. Cloth $17.95. 10% dis- C17 Hassock Cooler: Serves as an
Ve m= count to Alumni. (McGraw-Hill) “ne an holding ice and
9 | C4 W2&L square shot glass. $2.75. INS.

| C18 Walnut Box from Heritage
| C5 WA&L square double shot glass. | Classics, fitted with enameled W&L (Z
| $4.95 crest. These will be made as C18

 

C6 Elegance in a plate! Regal ordered and shipped from the
blue surrounds crest of 22K gold. | manufacturer. $79.00

10%, diameter plate has capsule plus shipping and

history of W&L on back. Hand- handling.

some gift box. $60.00. C19 WAL fris-

C7 Acrylic wrap mug. $3.95. bee. Blue with

white athletic *
logo. $1.00 each.

Photos by Hinely

/C8 Navy or white ceramic mug
with athletic logo. $5.95.

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E R cE i W&L UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE NAME:
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 |
' (703) 463-8633 ADDRESS:
WITH PURCHASE OF $50 Mon.-Fri. 8:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. CITY: STATE 7|P
OR MORE WHILE SUPPLY LASTS

ITEM NO. QTY. SIZE DESCRIPTION/COLOR

SET OF SIX
STYROFOAM CAN COOLERS:

% é

 

@ Please send no money with your order as prices can For orders over $5.00

, change without warning. We will bill you, adding UPS

and sales tax where applicable. If you'd rather order Charge Card Number VISA____ MASTERCARD____ CHOICE__
by phone or you have a question, please call us.

Expiration Date Signature
Sept. 1985

 

 

 

From The President

 

 

The following is an excerpt from remarks that President
John D. Wilson made to parents of the Class of 1989 dur-
ing a Parents’ Orientation program in Lee Chapel.

W. are absolutely delighted to have your ‘‘children”’
here. I am going to have ‘‘children’’ mentally set aside in
quotation marks because they are not really children any
longer. They are on that threshold, that awkward stage of
young adulthood, and it is our deep privilege to preside over
the ultimate transition from childhood to adulthood in these
critical four years.

It is a bittersweet time for you parents. Your children
have now moved out their things (and, no doubt, many of
your things as well). They will call; they will come home at
holiday time and maybe in the summer; they will accept your
financial support. But, really, they are very far along now
in separating themselves from the basic unit which has given
them the nurture and the care and the love which has made
them what they are—very promising, successful young peo-
ple. They are in the process now of achieving autonomy,
which is a cause for celebration and for gladness. But it is
also inevitably the cause of some modest amount of sadness,
too.

The price of this huge brain that is the gift of homo sa-
piens is a long period of being together, some 20 years—
unlike anything else in the animal kingdom. The bonds are
strong. They are hard to bend. They will only bend, because
after autonomy is achieved the union takes place on an en-
tirely different level, and that brings satisfactions, too.

But now your sons and daughters must take over their
own lives. You will not be there to call them for breakfast.
If they wish to sleep in and miss breakfast and miss their
first hour of class, no one will be pushing them out of the
bed to meet their obligations. (Someone, however, will note
that those obligations have not been met.) But they are really
taking over for themselves now and the first lesson of their
maturity must always be that actions and decisions produce
consequences, and one must learn to live with the conse-
quences of one’s own decisions.

The hardest thing for parents to do is to allow students
to live with the consequences of their decisions. We have
tried to shield them from some of the worst consequences
for most of the years of their young lives. Now that must
largely stop, and they must learn this most difficult lesson:
that by acts of commission or omission consequences will
flow—sometimes unwanted consequences. And they must
learn how to cope after that happens; they must learn how
to dig out of their own difficulty.

Students will assume their responsibilities quickly here
because the institution insists that they do. Lee’s code of the
gentleman took the place of a very elaborate rulebook that
the faculty had in place. We have as the central feature of
that code the Honor System. You should know that the
Honor System, which is totally managed by the students of
this University, has been in place for more than a century
now. That system simply says that none of us in an academic

 

community will lie or cheat or steal. And if we do we will
forfeit our right to continue here. This severe code produces
an ambiance in which trust and mutual respect and teaching
and learning can go forward, because we all know that learn-
ing, fundamentally and finally, has to be a solitary act. One’s
work must finally be one’s own.

The Honor System does underline, too, the fact that life
here as a student is a privilege. It is not a right. It is a privilege
and it has to be earned by entering into this sense of mutual
respect and mutual trust, which makes it possible for facul-
ty to give assignments and to say, ‘‘You can do this in your
own room and you can take no more than two hours.’’ And
it permits a student to come to a faculty member and say
that he or she was ill last Tuesday and was not able to take
an examination. It is assumed that truth is being told so that
this does not have to be accompanied by medical records
or telephone calls or checkups. We rely upon each other to
tell the truth here.

These students are embarking on a great adventure—a
gift of four years before mortgage payments and automobile
payments and insurance premiums and all of the pain and
strife of adult life with its responsibilities. These four years
are a time when one can deepen one’s human experience in
vicarious ways: One can explore the constraints that envelop
the human condition, study the nature of our world and the
constraints of our own living selves, get glimpses of great
human possibility in works of fine art and literature and
music, in religion, in works of the imagination, in mathe-
matics, and on and on.

Your sons and daughters will come to know themselves
more deeply, more fully, in these four years here. They will
discover a little more clearly where they are in the inherited
cultural envelope that you have helped to give them and
America has helped to give them and Western Civilization
has helped to give them.

In that discovery they will increase their chances to live
happy and rich and satisfying lives of service to others as
well as to themselves.

There is no other time quite like these four years. We
take it very seriously here, and we promise you faithfully
that we will do everything in our power to make those the
rich and wonderful years that they have a right to be.

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450

W. H. Auden
J. R. R. Tolkien

Ezra Pound
Eudora Welty

What do these authors have in common?

Second Class Postage Paid

At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

Their works are included in the 35th anniversary issue of Shenandoah,

The Washington and Lee University Review.

Shenandoah: An Anthology is a 512-page collection of the
best stories, poems, and essays published in the literary
magazine since its founding in 1950.

The special issue includes fiction by Flannery O’Connor,
Joyce Carol Oates, Jean Stafford, and Peter Taylor; essays
by William Faulkner, Katherine Anne Porter, Eudora Welty,
and Richard Wilbur; and poetry by e. e. cummings, James
Dickey, J. R. R. Tolkien, and William Carlos Williams.

Pushcart Press is including the anthology in its series of col-
lections from literary magazines.

Regular subscribers will automatically receive the double
issue. Anyone who does not subscribe to Shenandoah but
would like to purchase copies of the anniversary issue may
order them at the cost of $10 per copy (postage and handling
included).

Shenandoah

 

ADAMS ¢ AMMONS ¢ AUDEN © BERNSTEIN © BERRYMAN ¢ BETIEMAN ¢ BOGAN
BRADLEY © BRONDOLI © BURKE © CORN ¢ COWLEY © CREWS © CUMMINGS
CUNNINGHAM ¢ DAVIE ® DICKEY ¢ EBERHART ¢ FAULKNER @ FELIDMAN ¢ FINKEI
FISHER © FORD © G.ARBER @© GORDON ¢ GRAHAM ¢ HACKER ¢ HALL ¢ HILI
HINE © HOFFMAN © HOLLANDER © HOWARD ¢© HUGO ¢ KENNER ©@ KINSELLA
KIRSTEIN © KIZER® LOWELL ¢ LYTLE ® MAC AULEY ®©MACDONALD © McCLATCHY
MEREDITH © MERRILL © MIDDLETON @ MILES © MONETTE © MOORE © MORRIS
MORRIS @© MOSS © NEMEROV © OATES ® OCONNOR ¢ PERCY ©& PINSKY
POLLITT © PORTER ®© POUND © PRICE © RECTOR ¢ ROSS ¢ SCHULMAN
SPENDER © STAFFORD) © STEVENS © STUART © SWENSON ¢ TATE ¢ TAYLOR
TAYLOR © THOMI’SON ¢ TOLKIEN © VREULS © WARREN © WELTY ¢© WHITE

WHITTEMORE © WILBUR ¢ WILLIAMS © WILSON © WRIGHT © YOURCENAR

From the First 35 Years

 

 

 

PNawaveisale)Coycay

$10.00

 

0043105

Balfour

241 Ralston Rd.

Daniel T.

Mr e

Richmonds VA 23229

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my order for

 

copies of Shenandoah: An Anthology at $10 each.

 

 

 

 

My check for $ enclosed.

Name

Addrdes

City State Zip

 

 

 

 

