A's rai Tae
Ce eb .

fi

 

 

Se

aR aan naan i

ees

SRR

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 62, Number 6, December 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor

BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor

ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. Fotsom, ’73, President
Columbia, S.C.

WAYNE D. McGrew Jr., ’52, Vice President
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, Treasurer
New Orleans, La.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

W. NaT BAKER, 67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

C. HowarpD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JAMES J. DAwson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

M. LEE HALFORD JrR., ’69
Dallas, Texas

CLaYy T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

JAMES M. JENNINGS JrR., 65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

EUGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

JOHN W. RoBINSON IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

Photograph by Mathew Horridge, ’88

 

/

4
<

}
|

On the Inside M06

}

Trading Places

Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson and
freshman Carol Howson
spent a day in one
another’s shoes in
November. For the story
on the unusual role rever-
sal, see page 30.

 

2 Homes Sweet Homes

 

10 ~=Fraternities Take Next Step

 

12 Homecoming ’87

 

14. +=Vicious Truths

 

18 MURPH!

 

22 +#2A Funnies Collection

 

27 The W&L Gazette

 

31 The Bookshelf

 

32 Alumni News

 

34 Class Notes

 

38 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Washington and Lee’s picturesque Front Campus
becomes especially photogenic at the height of the autumn colors.
Inside front cover: A huge crane carefully places the cupola on
top of the gatehouse of Gaines Residence Hall. Photos by W.
Patrick Hinely, °73

Homes
Sweet
Homes

 

ere Do Washington and Lee Students Live? Everywhere.

 

By Anne Coulling

 

2 W&L

 

‘“fThe students] never seem to think of knocking at your door, but in, they
walk, throwing themselves unceremoniously on your bed, and if you do not
interfere, they will cut up your books, break your combs, and destroy or

deface every thing they can lay their hands upon . .

.. All the rooms I have

seen, present the appearance of Dog-kennels—so defaced have they already
become with Tobacco juice, mud, water-melon-seed, & &.”’
from Ollinger Crenshaw’s General Lee’s College, p. 97

 

ington College, describe the state of the college’s dor-
—” mitories in a letter to his father in the early 1840s.

Modern-day parents who have visited their sons and
daughters at college might recognize some of Rutherfoord’s
descriptions in their children’s rooms. Some things, it seems,
never change. And yet, fortunately, some things do.

To avoid the chaos and disarray of the dormitories,
Rutherfoord eventually boarded with a family in Lexington.
He had no other options, really. There were no fraternities,
no apartments as such. And he had to live close to the cam-
pus, because naturally he had no automobile.

Rutherfoord’s decision to live out in the community was,
apparently, a matter of necessity. A little more than two
decades later, the students of Washington College were ac-
tually being encouraged to follow Rutherfoord’s lead.

As legend has it, Gen. Robert E. Lee recommended that
the students secure lodging with Lexington families. Lee,
the story goes, thought such arrangements would have a
civilizing effect on the students and would also be an
economic boon to those who had been hurt financially by
the war.

That practice continued for many, many years. Board-
inghouses were commonplace in Lexington. And they were
the primary alternative to the dormitories and fraternity
houses.

Today, the boardinghouse is a rarity. In its place are
numerous other housing options. In fact, Washington and
Lee students have unlimited possibilities when it comes to
choosing their homes away from home. They can live on
the campus or off it. They can live within the city limits or
out in the country. They can live in University housing or
(in the case of men) in one of 17 fraternity houses. They
can live in relatively tiny apartments above downtown
businesses or in spacious condominiums. They can rent
farmhouses from local landlords or, in a few instances, they
' can even own their own homes (or, at least, their parents
can).

Student housing at Washington and Lee has always run
the gamut. It does still. Unlike many residential colleges that
require students to live on the campus throughout their four
years, Washington and Lee’s only restriction is that
freshmen must reside in the dormitories during that first
year. |

Since 1966 Frank A. Parsons, ’54, executive assistant to
the president, has conducted periodic surveys of housing pat-
terns among the University’s students. His purpose is to
determine where students are living and whether they are

be, o did John Coles Rutherfoord, a student at Wash-

having difficulty locating the kind of housing arrangements
they prefer.

In surveys taken between 1979 and 1986, Parsons
discovered.that a significant number of students who were
living off campus indicated that they would prefer to have
the option of on-campus housing. That discovery, coupled
with the slight expansion of the student body associated with
coeducation, led the University to build the 248-bed Gaines
Residence Hall.

That facility opened in September and provides an on-
campus alternative for upperclass law and undergraduate
students whose choice was previously limited to the 178-bed,
12-year-old Woods Creek Apartments.

‘‘The next trick will be to assess the critical point for
our next housing need,’’ Parsons says, ‘‘and that may not
occur at all.’’

When that critical point will happen, or indeed whether
it will ever happen, depends on two factors. One is the mat-
ter of student preference regarding housing. If more and
more students express a desire to live on campus, says Par-
sons, the University will respond accordingly.

The other factor is more complicated and has to do with
the city of Lexington and its zoning ordinances. An existing
but long-ignored ordinance on the city’s books prohibits
more than two unrelated persons from sharing dwellings in
residential areas. City officials are currently working to
revise the law to permit three or four people to share a home.
If such an ordinance is passed, it will be more strictly en-
forced than the existing one, and many W&L students could
be forced to find alternative places to live.

‘*If that happens, there’s going to be some impact,’’ says
Parsons. And yet, he adds, ‘‘for the time being, we’re in
pretty good shape with regard to housing. We’ve got flex-
ibility to absorb students where we need to, and we will con-
tinue to study housing patterns as they evolve.”’

And evolve, they most surely will just as they have since
Mr. Rutherfoord opted to move out of his Dog-kennel dorm
room back in the 1840s.

All of which brings us to the basic question: where do
Washington and Lee students live nowadays? The answer
is, they live everywhere.

The following six perspectives on student housing pro-
vide some indication of just what ‘‘everywhere’’ means to
today’s student generation. Moreover, the students in these
vignettes have firm opinions about not only where they want
to live, but why they want to live there. While these are six
characteristic examples, they only begin to reveal the
remarkable diversity of housing patterns at W&L.

W&L

 

The Freshman Dorm

& fhy hen I got here with my
parents and we found the
room, it just seemed very

empty. It was raining out, and we had to
carry so much stuff up the stairs to this lit-
tle, bare room, and I said to myself, ‘This
is never going to seem homey.’ ”’

That was at the beginning of September,
freshman Kyra Draves recalls. In the space
of two months that once-empty room in
Davis Dormitory has been transformed.
There is carpet on the tile floor, comforters
are spread over the bunk beds, and postcards
from friends back home are stuck to the
bulletin boards. An electric fan and a tennis
racket are propped in the windowsill. Col-
orful posters decorate the walls. On the
desks, college textbooks rest alongside fram-
ed photographs from high school days.

Draves lives here with her roommate, In-
grid Schroeder. Until they arrived in Lex-
ington for freshman orientation, the two
were total strangers. Now they are the best
of friends.

Neither of them was sure it would be this
way. Over the summer, both worried
somewhat about the identity of the person
with whom they would be spending the next
nine months, sharing this small living space.

‘*There’s always that anxiety about liv-
ing with a stranger,’’ Draves recalls. ‘‘You
think, ‘What if she’s your total opposite?’
or ‘What if she’s really rowdy?’ ’’ Schroeder
adds.

They needn’t have been concerned. ‘‘We
really get along,’’ Draves claims. Her room-
mate agrees. ‘‘We do everything together—
we go to meals together, we go out together,
we go to all the parties together.”’

It’s not always easy to share a room with
another person. But both women specifical-
ly requested to live in a double room, rather
than a single. ‘‘I wanted to have somebody
there with me when I first got to college,’”’
Draves says. ‘‘At the start, it made it so
much easier to have at least one person I
knew, so I wouldn’t have to sit by myself at
dinner, so I would have somebody to talk
to.”’

Naturally, dorm living did take some get-
ting used to. For one thing, the new students
were initially a bit startled to see male
students walking down the halls at any hour
of the day or night, in accordance with the
dorm’s 24-hour visitation policy. Getting
clean clothes presents a formidable
challenge, since the campus has only a few
laundry machines that are available to
freshmen, and those are nearly always in
great demand. Dining hall food isn’t quite

4 W&L

 

 

 

A

Kyra Draves (left) and Ingrid Schroeder are now at home in their room in Davis Dormitory.

like Mom’s, the bathroom showers get clogg-
ed, the rooms get hot and stuffy. Still, this
pair of roommates is not complaining.

‘*T think it’s good that the school requires
freshmen to live in the dorms,’’ Schroeder
believes. ‘‘You always have somebody to go
out with. It’s okay for upperclass students
to live out in town, but if you’re new that
doesn’t give you any way to meet people.”’

Draves and Schroeder especially ap-
preciate the open, friendly atmosphere that
pervades the dorm. ‘‘Everybody keeps her
door open,” Schroeder says. ‘‘Because of the
Honor System, no one worries that her
possessions will be taken. It’s kind of like a
family.”’

While the Honor System governs most
facets of student life, a few additional regula-
tions are enforced in the dormitories. For in-
stance, no alcohol is permitted in the rooms,
and students are expected to be quiet from
7 p.m. to 7 a.m. Sunday through Thursday.
Possible penalties for violations include
hours of service to the University and
‘‘days’’—banishment from the dormitory
from 8 a.m. to midnight.

Sharing such close quarters with so many
students has taught these freshmen some
valuable lessons. ‘‘You learn to be con-
siderate of someone else, to live with other
people,’’ Schroeder says.

Draves elaborates: ‘‘You meet all dif-
ferent kinds of people, and maybe some of
your stereotypes get taken away.”’

Indeed, one of the few objections
Schroeder and Draves raise concerning their
housing arrangement is that they do not have
the opportunity to meet enough different
people. In particular, they wish they could
meet more upperclass students.

 

‘It’s good to be with just freshmen,
because you get to know the people in your
class, but sometimes it’s like the blind leading
the blind,’’ Schroeder says. ‘‘You don’t real-
ly know what to expect; you don’t know
which fraternities are good to go to and
things like that.’’

One upperclass student whom the two
women have come to know quite well is their
resident dorm counselor. Although she is
charged with enforcing the rules in the dorm,
the freshmen regard their D.C. more as a
friend than as a disciplinarian. Says
Schroeder: ‘‘She is definitely not an authori-
ty figure. She’s more like a big sister you’d
go ask advice of.”’

Next year, Draves and Schroeder ten-
tatively plan on sharing a suite in the new
Gaines Residence Hall with some friends
from their freshman hall. Unlike many of
their fellow students, they have no interest
in moving off campus and finding housing
in Lexington. ‘‘When you live in town you
have to pay bills,’’ Draves explains. ‘‘You
have to buy groceries and worry about things
breaking down. Besides, if I were so far from
campus, I would feel detached.’’

When Kyra Draves and Ingrid Schroeder
first saw their room in Davis Dorm, they
thought it seemed very empty and lonely.
There are moments when both women ex-
perience occasional bouts of homesickness.
Yet they also acknowledge that they are
beginning to feel more and more comfortable
in their new environment. ‘‘I remember the
first time we were at a party or something
and I actually said to somebody, ‘Let’s go
home,’ ”’ Draves says.

Then she stopped. ‘‘I mean,”’ she hasti-
ly corrected herself, ‘back to the dorm.”’

 

The New Gaines Hall Alternative

hen friends from home used to

visit Kevin Struthers at

Washington and Lee, they always
had the same question. After he had taken
them on a tour of the campus, they would
inevitably ask, ‘‘Where are the rest of the
dorms?’’

Struthers tried to explain: his University
provided dormitory space for freshmen and
limited on-campus housing for upperclass
students. But, he would continue, after their
first year, most students lived at their frater-
nity, or found houses or apartments in town
or in the county.

If Struthers faced such a query today, he
would have a much different answer. He
now lives in ‘‘the rest of the dorms’’—the
brand-new $8.3-million Gaines Residence
Hall, which opened its doors to the first oc-
cupants this fall.

‘*T think lack of housing was a big void
in the University’s attractiveness,’’ Struthers
says. ‘‘Upperclass students had so few op-
tions, and some of those were not very ap-
pealing. I think it was a smart idea of the
University to build this place.’’

So when the new facility began going up
on the corner of Washington and Nelson
streets, Struthers, a junior, and classmate
Joel Miller decided to sign up.

Such a decision was a real act of faith,
considering the fact that they had seen
nothing more than floor plans and a con-
struction site. And yet, Miller avows, ‘‘I
never worried about being stuck in a place
I hadn’t seen. I knew it was going to be much
better than the old dorms.”’

For the most part, they have not been

disappointed with the suite they share with
seniors Andrew Bouie and Norm Sigler. In-
deed, they usher visitors around with all the
enthusiasm of professional tour guides.

‘‘Look at this,’’ Struthers says as he
strides from the central living room into his
own single bedroom. ‘‘This room has 16 elec-
trical outlets. Sixteen! Is that not fabulous?

‘‘When I first walked in here, I said,
‘There’s no mirror.’ ’’ He pushes the door
shut to reveal a full-length mirror. ‘‘See? It’s
huge!”’

He and Miller point with equal pride to
the numerous other conveniences in the suite:
the individual fire alarms and cable TV
hookups that are included in each of the
three bedrooms (two singles and a double);
the windows, equipped with Venetian blinds,
that look out onto a courtyard; the blue wall-
to-wall carpeting and cranberry-colored fur-
niture that is comfortable, yet durable. (Says
Miller: ‘‘You could have a serious function
here. I mean, how many things could you
break?’’)

The suitemates also describe in glowing
terms the facility’s other advantages: the
‘*clean, well-lit”? laundry room, which boasts
nine washing machines and five dryers; the
two full kitchens, complete with a microwave
oven and dishwasher; the exercise room,
which has eight Nautilus machines, three sta-
tionary bicycles, a rowing machine, a tread-
mill, jumpropes, and barbells (‘‘it’s
awesome,’’ says Struthers); and a computer
room.

‘*You can almost be self-sufficient in our
dorm,’’ Miller says. ‘‘You have an exercise
room, kitchen, shower, bed, and computer.”’

Both students view Gaines as an enor-
mous improvement over their living quarters
of the previous year, which were at the
Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. ‘‘Here you
have more privacy, it’s in better physical
shape, and you have a better chance to keep
it clean,’’ Struthers says.

Besides, adds Miller, ‘‘you only have to
deal with a limited number of people here.
You don’t have to deal with billions and
billions of other people the way you do at
a fraternity house.”’

Gaines’ proximity to campus is another
of its advantages. ‘‘After living way out in
Egypt last year, at Lambda Chi, it’s great to
be this close to campus,’’ Struthers says. ‘‘It
makes such a difference when you can leave
your room five minutes before class.’’

Despite their enthusiasm, Miller and
Struthers are quick to point out a number
of deficiencies in the new dormitory. Con-
struction was continuing on the gatehouse
until well into the fall. There doesn’t seem
to be enough parking space; the kitchens are
out of the way; and some ‘‘finishing
touches’’ are still lacking.

Nonetheless, Struthers says, ‘‘as gran-
diose as it is, I really shouldn’t complain
about anything.

**Once all the kinks are out, once all the
construction is finished, it will be fantastic.’’

He adds: ‘‘Even for members of frater-
nities, who always have a place where they
can live, this is a great option. It’s great for
us to have a place that is clean, that is ac-
cessible, with an environment that is inducive
to studying.

‘*T love living here.’’

Miller agrees. ‘‘It would be hard to find
something to beat this.’’

AEDUMRO

 

Kevin Struthers (left)
and Andrew Bouie
relax in the living room
of their four-person
suite in the new Gaines
Residence Hall.

W&L 5

 

The Homeowners

s student housing goes, it is lux-

urious: a wide front porch, fresh

paint and wallpaper, plush carpet,
a washer and dryer, and ceiling fans in every
room. Sometimes it helps to know your
landlord.

Five Washington and Lee juniors—
Caroline Boone, Patience Jones, Clare Kaye,
Eleanor Nelson, and Alston Parker—live in
this house in one of Lexington’s residential
neighborhoods. The students did not find
their house on the rental market, however.
They bought it.

Or to be more precise, their parents
bought it. Or to be more precise still, Boone’s
father and Jones’s father bought the house
to give their daughters and their friends a
place to live while they attended college.

‘‘At the end of our freshman year we
looked around, and there just weren’t many
accommodations available to us at the time,”’
recalls Jones. No place seemed safe enough,
or comfortable enough, or close enough to
campus. ‘‘It just seemed easier to buy
something, renovate it, and then sell it after
we graduate.”’

The house did indeed require extensive
renovation. One entire room had to be
drywalled, and holes had to be patched in
another. Carpet was ripped up and a profes-
sional cleaning company was called in. In ad-
dition, each of the students was responsible

for redecorating her own bedroom, with
fresh paint, wallpaper, and carpet.

The women moved into their new home
in September 1986, and all five of them plan
to stay until they graduate in June 1989. ‘“We
don’t fight at all,’’ says Kaye. ‘‘We’re all best
friends. It’s a unique relationship.”’

‘‘When someone is not doing her part,
we just tell her,’? adds Nelson. ‘‘No one
holds a grudge.”’

To cover expenses, each of the women
makes a monthly deposit into a rent account.
Jones and Boone pay all the bills from that
account. Because their fathers own the
house, Boone and Jones also see to it that
the lawn is mowed and any necessary repairs
are made, although they are quick to point
out that all five occupants share some degree
of responsibility.

‘*You have much more independence
than if you were in a dorm, where you would
just call Buildings and Grounds if you had
a maintenance problem,”’ says Nelson. ‘‘You
get more of an idea of what it will be like
five years from now—you know, you have
to be home when the plumber comes, and
things like that.’’

**You also learn a lot about social respon-
sibility,’’ explains Kaye. ‘‘In a residential

neighborhood, you have to consider noise.
That’s the only reason I sometimes wish we
lived in a college neighborhood, so we
wouldn’t have to worry about making noise.
On the other hand, it’s a big advantage to
have such quiet neighbors.”’

 

All of the students believe that solitude
is one of the greatest benefits of their hous-
ing situation. ‘‘You can decide to be social
or to be by yourself much more easily than
when you’re in a dorm,”’ Kaye says.

Adds Nelson: ‘‘It’s much easier to ask
four people to leave you alone because you
have a midterm than it is to ask 100.”’

At the same time, the women also enjoy
feeling like part of a neighborhood. When
they are away on breaks, the family next
door watches the house and takes in their
mail. ‘‘It’s nice to know that someone is
looking out for you,’’ Nelson says.

Of course, not even good neighbors can
offer protection against every difficulty.
Some problems are simply endemic to home
ownership, and these students are well ac-
quainted with such crises as gas leaks and
burst pipes. And there was the time they
discovered a mouse beneath the stove, with
two pounds of M&Ms that had mysterious-
ly disappeared from the kitchen cabinets.

Still and all, they wouldn’t trade their ex-
perience for anything.

‘*T think of this so much as a home, and
not just an apartment for school,’’ says
Nelson.

Kaye explains, ‘‘When you live off on
your own like this, you learn so much about
relying on yourself and your own resources.
But on a larger scale, you also learn a lot
about relationships.

‘When you leave high school, you think
you’ll never have such close friends again.
And then you come to college.
The memories I have from this
house will last long after I leave
W&L. The day we move out of
here will be the saddest day of
our lives.’’

Nelson nods in agreement.
‘“When I think back at W&L I
will think about the people I
went through with. I think that
people who live by themselves
are missing so much. I can’t im-
agine living by myself.’’

Adds Kaye: ‘‘Or anywhere
but here.’’

From left, Alston Parker, Clare
Kaye, Patience Jones, Eleanor
Nelson, and Caroline Boone en-
joy the freedom—and the
challenges— of home ownership.

 

The Country Life
of Windfall

f you head north from Lexington on

Route 11, cross the Maury River, and

take a left at East Lexington, you will
find yourself on old Route 39. And if you
take this road past Shaner’s Greenhouse,
past barns and fields, you will soon see it set
high on a hill—a two-story frame house
fronted by a porch. Another tenth of a mile
down the road you will find the gravel
driveway, which is rutted and dusty and
weaves past more barns and fields before
veering sharply to the left, bumping along
across a cattle guard, and then beginning the
steep ascent up to the house itself.

On a clear October night, the sky is bright
with stars, and a gentle breeze is blowing on
top of this hill, from which you can look
down at the lights twinkling below in Lex-
ington. Behind you there is not another
house in sight, just the outline of hills and
trees and stars as far as the eye can see.

This is ‘‘Windfall.’’ For about 20 years,
Washington and Lee students have lived in
this house. For 19 of those years, the oc-
cupants have been members of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

‘‘When I was a freshman, I thought the
guys who lived at Windfall walked on
water,’’ recalls Jon Knight.

Today, Knight is one of those guys who
live at Windfall. So are Henry Sackett, Evans
Schmidt, Phil Sherrill, and Hunter White.
On a Wednesday night the five of them
lounge in the front room of the farmhouse,
absently watching the final game of the Na-
tional League Championship Series on the
color television set and talking about why
they live where they do.

It’s something they have trouble ar-
ticulating. ‘“There’s a certain mystique about

 

Windfall,’’ Knight explains. ‘‘It’s a privilege
to live here.’’

Not just anyone can live at Windfall.
Each year’s tenants hand-pick the occupants
for the following year.

“*It’s like a second fraternity within a
fraternity,’’ says Sackett. ‘‘Guys who lived
here years ago come back and want to see
their room; they want to know who lives here
now.”’

The front room is decorated with well-
worn couches and chairs and dog-eared
posters that have obviously been on the walls
for quite a while. Most of the furnishings and
virtually all of the pictures are passed on
from year to year, from one generation of
Windfall dwellers to another.

‘*Everything has a story,’’ Knight says,
from the graffiti painted on doors
throughout the house to the collection of
Fancy Dress posters that is ‘‘as old as the
hills’’ (it dates clear back to 1982!). ‘“There’s
so much history that is passed on,’’ says
Knight.

‘This is probably the only student house
in Lexington that has its own set of en-
cyclopedias,’’ Schmidt points out. ‘‘It’s fun-
ny what you’ll find here.’’

The house isn’t in the best of shape, the
students admit, as one of them bounds up
the steps, which cooperate with loud squeaks
on cue. The exterior desperately needs re-
painting; the water turns off ‘‘periodically’’;
and until this year, there were no outside
locks on the doors.

“If it weren’t for the history of this place,
if we were just a bunch of guys living here
for the first time, we probably wouldn’t put
up with it,’’ Schmidt confesses. ‘‘My mom
didn’t want me to live here. She said, ‘You
can’t live there! It’s a dump!’ ”’

Nonetheless, the house is not without its
charms: French doors, a bathroom ‘‘big
enough to play basketball in,’’ and a recently

Relaxing in the living
room at Windfall are
(from left) Evans
Schmidt, Hunter
White, Henry Sackett,
and Phil Sherrill.

discovered ‘‘secret’’ room located behind a
panel in one of the bedroom closets. But
Windfall’s greatest selling point is unques-
tionably its location.

From the top of the hill, the students are
able to look out and see the Colonnade. ‘‘We
can sit on the porch and watch all the lights
at VMI go out at the same time,’’ says
Knight. Virtually every window has a
beautiful view.

Although they are situated about two
miles from town, without another house
nearby, the students do not feel isolated.
Sackett is the only one of the five without
a car, and he is able to catch rides to cam-
pus with friends. He shrugs philosophically
at the inconvenience. ‘‘This is right around
the corner compared to where lots of peo-
ple live.’’

**It’s so much better than living in the
fraternity house,’’ White believes. ‘‘The
fraternity house is fun and everything, but
if you want to sleep or something, somebody
is always coming in and saying, ‘Let’s watch
tapes on the VCR’ or whatever.”’

And after they leave Washington and Lee
and Windfall, it is the outdoors that they will
remember most.

**P’ll think about hanging out on that hill
up there Fancy Dress weekend,”’ Sackett
says.

Muses White: ‘‘I’ll remember lying on
that hammock out front early in the fall, or
in the spring.”’

The students realize that their time at
Windfall is a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
**T figure I will probably never live out in the
country again,’’ Schmidt says. ‘‘This is my
one chance.”’

When they return to their alma mater,
Windfall is what they will come back to.
Sackett says simply, ‘‘I would like to think
I could come back here someday and be
welcome.’’

W&L 7

 

 

=e

The Frat House

t is four o’clock on a weekday after-

noon, and all is quiet at the Pi Kappa

Phi fraternity house. ‘‘Everybody’s
asleep,’’ explains one brother, as he leads the
way down a long hall, pausing along the way
to pop his head into one room after another
and glance at the dormant bodies inside.

Fifteen members of Pi Kappa Phi live in
this house; most of them are sophomores.
Fraternity living is an experience familiar to
the majority of W&L’s male students, since
virtually all members of fraternities are re-
quired to room at the house while they are
sophomores.

It is a regulation that most do not find
burdensome. ‘‘If I had my choice of where
to live sophomore year, I would definitely
want to live in the house,’’ Greg Ossi is
saying.

Ossi has arisen from his afternoon nap
and is now seated in his room at the end of
the sleeping hall. The room is billed as a dou-
ble but he has it to himself. It is furnished
with homemade, graffiti-covered bunk beds
and second-hand furniture. A small rug is
thrown on the paint-splattered floor, and
posters from rock concerts are stuck to the
walls.

‘“When you live here, you’re with your
brothers,’’ Ossi continues. ‘‘You’re on your

8 W&L

The Pi Kappa Phi house is home this year for Greg Ossi (left) and Peter Wanek.

 

own more than you would be in the dorm,
but it’s better than an apartment because
you’re with so many people. You feel like
it’s your house for the year.”’

His classmate and fraternity brother
Peter Wanek agrees. ‘‘You’re in the
mainstream here,’’ Wanek says. ‘‘When a
party starts, you can just walk downstairs.’’

The sophomores at Pi Kappa Phi can
also just walk downstairs to get their meals.
That is more than simply an added conve-
nience. ‘‘When you eat at the house, you’re
not just eating a meal,’’ Ossi explains.
‘*You’re eating with your brothers, and
you’re talking about everything that’s going
on.”’

While they are at the center of fraternity
life, these sophomores are at the same time
removed from the hub of academic life. The
Pi Kappa Phi house is at least a seven-minute
walk from campus. The students merely
shrug at the inconvenience.

‘It’s not really far,’’ Ossi says. ‘‘It’s your
exercise for the day. It’s good to wake you
up for class.’’

The students also shrug at the physical
condition of the fraternity. ‘‘The houses are
old,’’ Wanek says. “‘I mean, we can make
excuses, can’t we? The guys who live at the
house just aren’t as worried about it as they
would be at home. I guess my room is pret-
ty messy. It’s really just a matter of opin-
ion.”’

The opinion of many
administrators, faculty,
and alumni, not to men-
tion parents, is that
fraternity houses as a
whole have some room
for improvement. In-
deed, the Board of
Trustees recently endors-
ed a plan calling for a
comprehensive renova-
tion of the houses.

Fraternity members
like Ossi and Wanek have
become accustomed to
such scrutiny and con-
cern. ‘‘When my dad first
saw this place,’’ Ossi ad-
mits, ‘‘he said the under-
privileged have better
housing.’’

Yet, he adds, ‘‘a
fraternity house is not go-
ing to look like a sorori-
ty house. Guys on the
whole are pretty sloppy.
We have parties here, and
they’re not your sit-down
cocktail party. You spill
beer on the carpet or whatever.’’

Ossi and Wanek are also quick to point
out that they and their brothers arrive in Lex-
ington well before the school year begins to
paint the house and make other im-
provements. One bathroom was renovated
and the porch roof replaced during the sum-
mer. Last year the fraternity acquired new
carpeting and furniture. Apart from such
special projects, the chapter officers are
charged with making sure the house is kept
up daily.

But, Ossi and Wanek concede, the new
coats of paint tend to fade quickly under the
wear and tear of parties, and there are limits
on what the officers are able to do. ‘‘The
house manager can be only so tough until
everyone says, ‘Enough,’ ’’ Wanek says.
**You’ve got enough to worry about without
worrying about cleaning up the house.’’

Still and all, the Pi Kappa Phis defend
their way of life. ‘‘When you live at the
house, you learn to deal with people on a
day-to-day basis,’’ Ossi says. ‘‘You learn
about give-and-take and respect for other
people’s feelings.”’

‘‘There’s an aspect of camaraderie,’’
elaborates Hunt Niedringhaus, another
sophoniore who lives at Pi Kappa Phi. ‘‘The
whole idea of a fraternity is that people are
close, that you have a brotherhood.

‘*And you can’t get any closer than when
you’re living together.’’

 

Apartment Living

t somehow fits the stereotype of that

mythical ‘‘first apartment’’: equipped

with sofas and chairs cast off from
someone’s parents’ den; newly painted walls
filled with bright posters; a color television
set that was no longer needed at home; kit-
chen cabinets so sparsely furnished that
salads must be tossed in the dishpan.

But though it may lack some of the
niceties of home, all in all it is a cozy, com-
fortable place, this two-bedroom apartment
located above a Lexington business just a
short walk from the W&L campus.

“Tt suits us perfectly,’? says W&L
sophomore Kara Cunningham, who lives
here with classmate Cheryl Bowles.

University housing surveys consistently
reveal that a significant number of students
choose the option of living in downtown
apartments. Nearly one-fourth of those
responding to the 1986 survey reported that
they lived in off-campus apartments.

Those apartments, however, vary enor-
mously with regard to size, location, and
comfort. They range from cramped efficien-
cies tucked away above downtown businesses
to two-story row apartments equipped with
living rooms and full kitchens. Some are
situated a mere stone’s throw from campus
while others are located on the outskirts of

town. Regardless of the features, apartment
living does offer numerous advantages,
Bowles and Cunningham believe. ‘‘We have
a lot more freedom here than we would in
the dorms,’’ Cunningham says. ‘‘There are
no real rules here.”’

Indeed, they seem to have the best of
both worlds: they have achieved their in-
dependence, and yet they are close enough
to the Colonnade that they do not feel
isolated. ‘‘It’s not even much quieter than
it was in the dorms,’’ Cunningham believes.
**Since we’re right on the street, we hear
everybody coming and going to fraternity
parties.”’

Besides, Bowles adds, ‘‘we’re both on
campus all the time. I’ve heard people who
live in apartments say it’s easy to get isolated,
but I think as long as you stay busy on cam-
pus you don’t feel that way.’’

Both because of their location and
because they have male neighbors, the
women do not worry much about safety,
either. ‘‘I would be a lot more scared in a
real house than here in an apartment,’’ says
Bowles. ‘‘If someone wants to hurt you or
take something from you, I think it would
be a lot harder to have to come all the way
up the stairs over a store than to come into
a house.”’

 

Of course, just as apartment living en-
sures more freedom, it also entails additional
responsibility. But that suits Bowles and
Cunningham fine. ‘‘I was raised to be pret-
ty independent, to do things for myself,”’
Bowles says. ‘‘I had lots of responsibility in-
stilled in me as I was growing up.”’

The students share all expenses and
housekeeping duties. Because neither of them
has a car, they must depend on friends to
give them rides to the grocery store every
couple of weeks, though they are able to per-
form most errands on foot.

‘*It does get really inconvenient,’’ Cun-
ningham admits, ‘‘when you run out of toilet
paper or whatever, or when you have eight
million dishes in the sink. It’s an inconve-
nience and an annoyance. But I think both
of us would rather live here any day than in
the dorm.”’

Theirs is a partnership that works well.
‘‘We get along great,’’ Cunningham says.
‘‘We have no problems getting along. Of
course, we also have separate bedrooms. We
wouldn’t get along otherwise.”’

As much as they enjoy being off on their
own, this pair of roommates would hesitate
to advocate it for everyone. “‘It’s a matter
of personal preference,’’ according to
Cunningham.

‘‘But,’’ she adds, ‘‘we wouldn’t live
anywhere else.’’

Sharing an apartment
in downtown Lex-
ington is the preference
of roommates Cheryl
Bowles (left) and Kara
Cunningham.

W&L 9

 

 

Fraternity renaissance is the topic for John Pipkin (left), president of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity,

 

and Andy Leonard, ’63, an officer of the Lambda Chi housing corporation, at the House Corpora-

tion Conference.

The Next Step

 

House Corporation Conference Continues Fraternity Renaissance

 

ore than S50 directors of the house

corporations of Washington and

Lee’s 17 fraternity chapters
gathered over Homecoming weekend in Oc-
tober to continue laying the groundwork for
what they expect to become a ‘‘golden age
of fraternities’’ at Washington and Lee.

The House Corporation Conference was
a follow-up to last year’s highly successful
Alumni Fraternity Council Symposium, at
which problems facing the fraternities were
identified and addressed.

The purpose of last year’s symposium,
said Paul J. B. Murphy, ’49, outgoing presi-
dent of the Alumni Fraternity Council, was
“to give broad visibility to the alumni interest
in the renaissance of the W&L fraternity
system and in the maintenance of that system
in such a manner as best to support Univer-
sity and fraternity goals.”’

This year’s conference took that interest
in the fraternity system one step further to
the house corporations, the organizations
responsible for the ongoing operation and
continued vitality of the 17 fraternity houses.
House corporations are composed of alum-
ni of the fraternity who live in relatively close
proximity to Lexington. The conference was
a historic one, marking the first time

10 W&L

By Brian D. Shaw

representatives of the house corporations of
all the fraternities had gathered to discuss
common standards of operation, the prob-
lems shared by all the fraternities, and possi-
ble solutions to those problems.

In his opening remarks, Murphy said the
conference’s goal was ‘‘to give some support
and attention to the house corporations,
which have been recognized as an essential
element in the planned renaissance of the
W&L fraternity system.”’

Murphy characterized the relationship
between the University and the house cor-
porations as one of ‘‘benign neglect’’ for
many years. The house corporations were
autonomous groups that had ‘‘no support in
their vital function’’ of overseeing the opera-
tions of the chapter houses, Murphy said.
During the conference that relationship was
redefined.

At the heart of the conference was a new-
ly published Fraternity House Corporation
Manual, a document developed over the last
year and a half by the Alumni Fraternity
Council. The manual outlines the basic pur-
poses and functions of the house corpora-
tions, their structure, the financial and ad-
ministrative responsibilities of the corpora-
tions, and their advisory role.

‘‘Before the manual was created there
was no basic reference tool to which the
various house corporations could go,’’ Mur-
phy said. ‘‘We hope the manual fulfills that
purpose.”’

The manual also addresses the five
groups involved in the planned fraternity
renaissance—the University, the national
fraternity, the Interfraternity Council, the in-
dividual house corporations, and the local
chapters—and how those groups ideally
should interact. Standard guidelines for each
of the five groups, which were presented
through the new manual, were adopted and
will be effective at the beginning of the
1988-89 academic year.

The guidelines present in great detail the
duties and responsibilities of all the agencies
involved with the fraternities and will form
the basis for the fraternity renovation
project.

Other standards adopted in principle but
yet to be implemented pertain to upgrading
and maintaining the physical condition of the
fraternity houses. The housing guidelines
direct the house corporation as it examines
the most efficient way to renovate the
houses.

According to those guidelines, the houses

 

must be compatible with the neighborhood,
be in excellent condition at all times, have
landscaped grounds conforming to a profes-
sionally designed landscape plan, meet or ex-
ceed all applicable code requirements for
fire, safety, health, and sanitation, provide
a large party area isolated from other parts
of the house, and be regularly maintained
and clean at all times.

The conference began with a presentation
by Thomas A. Devine, director of house cor-
poration training for the Sigma Alpha Ep-
silon fraternity. Devine took the group
through the basic operations of an ideal
house corporation, including formulas for
determining rent for each house and draw-
ing up contracts for the renting of rooms.

Mark L. Usry, associate executive direc-
tor of Sigma Nu fraternity, followed with a
discussion of what Murphy called ‘‘the
number one problem for every chapter across
the country’’—risk management.

As Murphy explained: ‘‘With the raising
of the drinking age and the development of
our increasingly litigious society, risk
management is foremost in everyone’s mind,
and the risks multiply each day.’’

Kevin McCusty, ’80, a member of Pi
Kappa Phi’s house corporation, said he, for
one, found the risk management and in-
surance session especially beneficial.

‘‘Lloyd’s of London will insure oil
tankers traveling through the Persian Gulf,
but they won’t insure fraternities,’’ McCus-
ty said. ‘‘Obviously we must do a better job
with risk management.”’

The first day of the conference ended
with sessions led by William E. Forester, ex-
ecutive vice president of the Kappa Alpha
Order, on accounting techniques and tax fil-
ing, and by Maurice E. Littlefield, executive
director of Sigma Nu, on the relationship
between the house corporation and the
fraternity’s national headquarters.

On Saturday morning the house corpora-
tion representatives were joined by the cur-
rent presidents of W&L’s 17 fraternities to
discuss the planned fraternity house renova-
tion program.

That meeting included remarks by
J. Thomas Touchton, ’60, chairman of the
Board of Trustees’ campus life committee,
who defined the University’s role in the pro-
posed renovation, and Lewis G. John, ’58,
dean of students, who outlined the basic
standards for housing that the University ex-
pects the fraternities to provide its resident
members.

David M. Oakland, a partner with
VMDO architects of Charlottesville, Va.,
gave an overview Of the feasibility planning
for the renovation. Last July, Oakland’s
firm—which renovated several University of

 

Virginia fraternity houses—conducted a tour
of W&L’s fraternity houses to determine
their exact physical condition and to assess
improvements that will be needed at each
house.

Representatives of VMDO met with each
house corporation in late October to review
the firm’s assessments of the houses, to
discuss the members’ desires, and to outline
the basic steps for renovation.

In remarks closing the two-day con-
ference, Washington and Lee President John
D. Wilson called the proposed renovation
project ‘‘a very complex undertaking.”’

Said Wilson: ‘‘Washington and Lee has
the opportunity to be on the cutting edge of
fraternity revitalization nationally. But we
can never succeed without strong house cor-
porations. We really have to depend on you
to get the job done.”’

Littlefield of Sigma Nu, one of the na-
tional fraternity representatives, was high in
his praise of the conference.

‘“The conference was run very well and
contained a lot of meat-and-potatoes type in-
formation,’’ said Littlefield. ‘‘I don’t know
of another conference of its type that has
been held anywhere in the country in the last
five years. I have advised other deans at
schools around the country to contact
Washington and Lee about this conference
and to follow suit.”’

Murphy, who completed his term as
president of the Alumni Fraternity Council
at the conference, said the meeting ‘‘struck
a blow for the survival of the fraternity
system. We can now lead the fraternities in-
to a golden era and the house corporations

Paul J. B. Murphy has
been a guiding force
behind the Alumni Frater-
nity Council. He com-
pleted his term as presi-
dent of the council during
the Homecoming
weekend’s successful
House Corporation
Conference.

are in a position to do it.”’

Murphy was succeeded as president of
the Alumni Fraternity Council by J. J. Smith
III, 60. Ed Bishop, ’68, who organized the
rebuilding effort at Phi Gamma Delta frater-
nity following the 1984 fire that destroyed
the house, was elected vice president. Bill
Bean, ’51, was reelected secretary of the
council.

Many of the house corporation members
came away from the conference with a
renewed sense of purpose and dedication to
the fraternity system.

‘In the past I got the clear impression
that many house corporations consisted of
One person with a checkbook who took care
of the bills, but was not involved in the ongo-
ing programs at the fraternities,’’ said
McCusty. ‘‘I foresee a big upgrade in the
quality of all house corporations.

‘*This was the first time the University
has made an effort to provide the house cor-
porations with an idea of what they should
be doing. The conference succeeded in
generating interest and support for the
system. I came away with the feeling that the
system will be improved.”’

‘‘Our overall goal should be to establish
a perpetual expectation that our fraternity
system at Washington and Lee should strive
to be the finest in the country,’’ Leroy C.
(Buddy) Atkins, ’68, associate dean of
students for Greek affairs, told the group at
the end of the conference. ‘‘The extension
of that idea would then be that our chapters
would be among the most outstanding for
each national fraternity represented on
campus.’’

W&L iil

omecoming
37

 

Two Special Conferences
Spice the Fall Weekend

 

y any reckoning, Homecoming ’87 qualified as one of the
busiest weekends on the Washington and Lee campus in
many years.

At times, the mixture of events—meetings and conferences,
banquets and concerts, athletic contests and receptions—had the
air of a three-ring circus.

What served to set this Homecoming apart from recent fall
gatherings of alumni were two special conferences—one for the
presidents of the University’s alumni chapters and the other for
representatives of fraternities’ house corporations (see story on page
10.)

Running concurrently with those two events was the annual reu-
nion of the Five Star Generals, a group comprising those alumni
who graduated from the University more than 50 years ago.

And even before the weekend started, the Alumni Board of
Directors arrived in Lexington for its fall meetings (see Alumni
Board President John W. Folsom’s report on page 34) and the Law
Council also convened. a,

Included among the special events that were crowded onto the
busy calendar was the John Randolph Tucker Lecture in the School
of Law. It was presented by Circuit Judge Harry T. Edwards of
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Edwards
spoke on ‘‘Affirmative Action in Employment—The Continuing
Dilemma Over Statutory and Constitutional Limitations.”’

The presidents of 47 of the University’s 84 alumni chapters par-
ticipated in their conference. Beginning with a state of the Univer-
sity report by W&L President John D. Wilson, the chapter leaders
spent a productive day and a half in meetings and panel discus-
sions. In addition to helpful practical ideas on expanding chapter
programs, the sessions included a report from the University’s ad-
missions office and an update on the newly created Alumni Career
Assistance Program.

The latter effort has gotten off to a successful start with pilot
programs in three chapters—Atlanta, Roanoke, and Washington,
D.C.—where alumni have organized to assist W&L students and
graduates both in job placement and in career guidance. Accor-
ding to Chester T. Smith Jr., 54, chairman of the Alumni Board
committee spearheading the effort, plans call for a gradual expan-
sion of the program into other chapters.

All told, the University’s Alumni Office estimated that more
than 400 alumni were back in Lexington for Homecoming, in-
cluding 200 who were involved in the various meetings. In addi-
tion to a concert by the University’s vocal ensembles, the return-
ing alumni enjoyed an Oktoberfest picnic prior to the traditional
Homecoming football game on Saturday afternoon.

12) W&L

 

 

BE fo

The 1987 Homecoming Queen was Washington and Lee junior
Catherine Christian, escorted by Reese Lanier.

  

Ms ihe

  

       

pa

oe

 

Five-Star Generals, alumni who graduated from the University more than 50 years ago, gather in front of Lee Chapel.

SR : a

Returning members of the

 

 

Pee

One of the highlights of the 1987 Homecoming weekend was a special conference for presidents
of Washington and Lee alumni chapters. The presidents and members of the sponsoring Alumni
Board of Directors are shown in front of the Commerce School Building. The two-day event in-
cluded several panel discussions such as the one shown at left.

 

W&L = 13

Vicious Truths

 

Presidential Candidates Circle the Wagons

 

tial nominations is ever produced as a

popular film, the candidates will have
their wagons circled, and the press will be on
ponies, riding to the attack. That is not
what’s happening, but it’s what people
believe is happening, and for most of us,
that’s good enough. However, the relation-
ship between the press—including radio and
television—and the politicians has changed,
and that is not necessarily bad.

Reuven Frank, who has produced or
overseen more political coverage than anyone
in network television, says that as a general
rule ‘‘the press should refrain from telling
lies, and once upon a time, the press lied a
lot.’’ Newspapers were owned by wealthy,
powerful, political men, who ran them for
their own benefit. The generally conser-
vative, generally Republican publishers told
their news editors what to do. ‘‘Adlai Steven-
son couldn’t even get coverage in 1952,”’
Frank says.

That is no longer true, but the politicians
being covered might wish for a friendlier
bunch covering them. Bill Monroe, executive
editor of Washington Journalism Review
and the former longtime moderator on Meet
The Press, says there is ‘‘an edge of
rudeness’’ in political coverage that was not
there before and that between the press and
politicians, including the President, there is
*‘an atmosphere of surly rancor and mutual

| f the current campaign for the presiden-

 

Lloyd Dobyns, a 1957 graduate of Washington
and Lee, was a correspondent, anchor, direc-

tor, and writer for NBC
News from 1969 to 1986.
Various programs that
Dobyns wrote and _ nar-
rated have won 27 major
awards, including the
DuPont-Columbia, two
George Foster Pea-
bodys, and all available TV
awards for economic
reporting. Included among his assignments
were those of co-anchor and co-writer with
Linda Ellerbee on ‘‘NBC News Overnight, ’’
and senior correspondent for NBC News in
Asia and chief of the Tokyo bureau. Now a
free-lance journalist working out of Raleigh,
N.C., he is writing a book about Asia and
overseas reporting for G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

 

 

 

 

14 W&L

By Lloyd Dobyns, ’57

distrust.”’ Monroe believes that reporters
covering candidates should be ‘‘skeptical,
detached, even mildly cynical,’’ but not
adversarial. ‘‘Adversary is too close to
enemy,’’ he says.

he modern genesis of that he-is-my-
i enemy school of journalism may have
started in the Nixon White House.
Timothy Crouse writes in The Boys on the
Bus (Random House, New York, 1972, p.
180), ‘‘Every President from Washington on
came to recognize the press as a natural
enemy... . Richard Nixon, however, was
different. Nixon felt a deep, abiding, and
vindictive hatred for the press... .”’

In the early ’70s, Frank, then president
of NBC News, sent a memo to some of his
executives, one of whom I was. It said, in
part, ‘‘We live in a surly time.’’ He referred
to the attacks on the press orchestrated by
President Nixon, but carried out in the main
by his number two, Spiro Agnew. It was a
time wher any attack on the press won a
round of applause, and a vicious attack was
good for a rousing cheer. Agnew may win
a footnote in history with his description of
columnists and commentators as ‘‘nattering
nabobs of negativism.’’ (While Agnew said
it, it was not his line, but the handiwork of
William Safire, a White House speechwriter
who is now a columnist for The New York
Times—a chattering caliph of conser-
vatism?—and something of an authority on
the English language. He thinks ‘‘nattering
nabobs of negativism’’ is a swell example of
alliteration in action.)

Reuven Frank’s ‘‘surly time’’ was a
period when the politicians commanded
respect and the press did not. And the at-
titude was not limited to the Nixon White
House. Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago
once said, ‘‘A newspaper is the lowest thing
there is!’’ I have the feeling he included
television in that assessment. When I was
sent to Chicago in 1970 to run the NBC News
operation there, Mayor Daley was so furious
with the press in general and television in par-
ticular that he refused to meet me. At all.
Ever. He would not even acknowledge my
letters.

Of course, that was before Agnew resign-
ed his office and pleaded nolo contendere to
charges of tax evasion and before Nixon
declared, ‘‘I am not a crook,”’ and was prov-
ed wrong. The weight of Watergate pulled
the pendulum back. Suddenly the scribes and
snoops were the good guys, the defenders of
the faith, foursquare and full sail for Mom,
God, and the American Way. Watergate was
journalism at its best, and eventually, maybe,
at its worst.

Because of Watergate, there was an enor-
mous change in reporting in America. A lot
of young people decided that their futures
were in ‘‘investigative journalism,’’ whatever
that might be. Rather than get into jour-
nalism because it’s an interesting craft that
pays well, the investigative journalists felt
called to it as if by a 900-foot-tall ballpoint
pen to smite the sinner, bedevil the wicked,
and put the politicians in jail. We traded one
surly time for another, and we traded places.
The politicians seemed to beat up on the
press then; the press seems to beat up on the
pols now. There is the modern American
spectacle of network correspondents Sam
Donaldson, Bill Plante, and Chris Wallace
simultaneously shouting questions at Presi-
dent Reagan, refusing to yield to each other,
and generating nothing more than an in-
coherent babble and_ professional
embarrassment.

Monroe says the White House invites
screaming at Presidential news conferences
and other events because it makes the Presi-
dent look good. Screaming would stop if the
President wanted it to, Monroe argues,
because ‘‘[t]he decorum of a news conference
is controlled by the President just as a judge
controls the decorum of the courtroom.”’

But rudeness alone does not explain why
the press is widely believed to be attacking
the candidates, ‘‘hounding’’ them as one
North Carolina politician put it.

ne popular theory is that the press
has replaced the party professionals
who operated in smoke-filled rooms
and checked out would-be candidates. If he
or she had too much to hide, the pros just
said no. That theory is supported, at least

 

Coon!
a pARW AR

 

POR Altes RALY RAE LENG
ERO BARS?

    
    

 

 

NO. AND THE SCANDAL
COMMITTEE TOTALLY CLEAKED
ME YESTERDAY...50

EUG OFF/

 

 

HEY... SOMETHING'S
IN HIS MAILBOX...

 

T'S FILLED = GREAT
LOOKS UKE WITH WOMEN'S SCOTT... GIRDLEGATE /
A SEARS UNDERWEAR! IT’S.. _ /

 

eh Fk GEN

J AT > pr =
s f =<
a. / 5 ~

(GOK

N“ " SS Uf e
Spee
Cheek

"4 (| “BLOOD

JN

 

 

 

 

Berke Breathed’s ‘‘Bloom County’’ suggests a pack mentality among journalists.

in part, by R. W. Apple Jr. of The New
York Times, Paul Taylor of The Washington
Post, David M. Rothberg of the Associated
Press, and James David Barber, the Duke
University history professor who writes
about the presidency. Both Taylor and Ap-
ple quoted Barber on this theory. There is
an argument to be made for the theory, even
though I think it is only part of the answer,
not the complete answer. My father was a
minor player in the Byrd Machine that ran
Virginia, and he was proud that Harry Byrd
insisted on standards of conduct that would
stand up in church.

But the Harry Byrds and the Jim Farleys
are gone, and as Russell Baker writes, ‘‘Now
that we have reformed these tyrants out of
existence and given the winnowing job to the
uninformed and uninterested multitude,
almost everybody can and does have a run
at the Presidency, usually on the theory that
you can fool all of the people some of the
time, so why not take a crack at it?’’

The job now falls to the press, and David
S. Broder of The Washington Post says,
‘‘We are taking seriously our responsibility
to deal with potential presidents’ character
and competence. But we are doing it in our
usual imperfect way.’’ The question fre-
quently asked by those who are not politi-
cians or members of the press is what right
do members of the press have to judge? Are
they themselves so pure, so righteous?

As good fortune would have it, purity
and righteousness are not required to judge,
not for the press, not for the politicians.
When Sen. Joseph Biden was forced out of
the race, he returned to Washington to run
the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on
Judge Robert Bork. It was his job; he did

it. If the professional politicians no longer
have a license to separate wheat from chaff,
someone else will become the Political
Character Police, and for the moment, at
least, it’s the press, not out of personal puri-
ty, but out of political necessity. It is not a
question of Caesar’s wife, but of Caesar. Do
the people who want to hold political office
or judgeships have the character and
capability that the rest of us have the right
to expect?

This year it is easy to look at the can-
didates’ character because there is so little
else to look at. The Democratic candidates,
except for the Rev. Jesse Jackson, are largely
unknown, and so far, their campaigns have
not showed much difference, except perhaps
for Sen. Albert Gore Jr., who actually says
nice things about the military from time to
time. (And he’s managed to wound himself
by claiming to have gotten some pols thrown
in jail when he was an investigative reporter
in Tennessee. He didn’t. So few do.)

Other than Sen. Gore’s defense of
defense, watching and listening to the
Democratic candidates can be a stone bore.
There is no fire, no flair. Michael Kramer,
chief political correspondent for U.S. News
& World Report, calls them ‘‘six men cer-
tain to cure your insomnia.’’ And
Republican consultant Roger Ailes said, ‘‘If
these guys were on The Dating Game,
nobody would get picked’’ (Newsweek, Sept.
7, 1987). For the reporters assigned to follow
them, if the campaign is offering nothing to
cover, perhaps the candidates’ character will.
If flaws turn up, perhaps it is, as Reuven
Frank says, because ‘‘[t]he politicians are do-
ing terribly, but the press is doing pretty
well.’”’

 

The Republican candidates have been no
more exciting, but they have by and large
avoided injuring themselves, although Pat
Robertson seems to be trying. (Before some-
one complains, Robertson resigned his
ministry and is no longer ‘‘the Reverend.’’)
Except for his devoted supporters, Robert-
son’s tendency to exaggerate his ac-
complishments is not helping him, and his
complaint, ‘‘I have never had this kind of
precision demanded of me before,’’ is
ludicrous. The precision is nothing more than
basic truth, and as The New York Times said
editorially, ‘‘Telling the truth is not a stern
requirement recently imposed by moralizing
media....”’

But in one respect I agree with Robert-
son. Why should I know or want to know
that Mrs. Robertson was pregnant when they
married, or that Mrs. Jackson was? One
marriage has lasted more than 30 years, the
other more than 20—not bad records of
marital stability in a society where divorce
is sO common it no longer causes
comment—even among politicians. For some
reason, pregnant brides attract uncommon
interest. An official of the Cattlemen’s Beef
Production Board said some of the members
were upset when Cybill Shepherd, their
spokeswoman, said she was pregnant with
twins, then married the father two days later.

Of course, making your own concurrent
announcement and having someone else dig
it up years later are not the same. Frank says
what should be reported is a matter of taste,
not subject. ‘‘I’m not sure there is any such
thing as ‘nobody’s business,’ ’’ he says. Thus
if I don’t want to know the condition of the
candidates’ wives on their wedding days, I
do want to know if some candidate got a

W&L 15

Copyright 1987, Washington Post Writers Group, reprinted with permission

 

 

young woman pregnant and abandoned her.
That would say something about his will-

ingness to accept responsibility for his ac-.
tions, and that we have an absolute right to |

know.

Grover Cleveland had a nine-year-old il-
legitimate son when he ran for the presiden-
cy, but he admitted it and demonstrated that
he’d helped to support the boy. His character
was so solid that the one incident did not hurt
him much. (There is now some revisionist
history that says Cleveland was not the only
person who had accepted the favors of the
young widow, but that he was the only
bachelor among them. So when she became
pregnant, he did the gentlemanly thing and
accepted responsibility for his fellows. Why
do I find that so hard to believe?)

Sex and politics have been with us a long
time, both in reality and fantasy. The 1947
film The Farmer’s Daughter starred Loret-
ta Young as a young Swedish maid who gets
involved with her Congressman _ boss’s
career, only to have the whole thing threaten-
ed by a sleazy housepainter who claims to
have spent the night with her. It won Loret-
ta Young the Academy Award for Best Ac-
tress that year. One other scene from the film
I remember particularly is when Charles
Bickford tells Young that people at a political
convention will cheer at absolutely anything,
then proves it by standing, shouting ‘‘Fish
for sale!’’ through his cupped hand, and get-
ting an enormous cheer.

Which is another of the changes.

olitical conventions, which used to be

marvelous centers for high-spirited

fun, backroom dealing, skullduggery,
and dirty tricks, are now nothing more than
one more wholesome television production,
as carefully orchestrated and scripted as The
Bill Cosby Show. Now, campaigns have
become part of that orchestration, designed
by well-paid advisers to sell their candidate
to a gullible public.

In her book ‘‘And So It Goes’’ (G. P.
_Putnam’s Sons, New York, 1986, pp.
126-27), Linda Ellerbee describes covering
the 1980 campaign: ‘‘In any campaign, the
most important person somehow seemed to
be the pollster. The candidate, if he was
lucky, came in third—right behind the media
consultant.”’

If the campaign and the convention are
to be nothing more than television programs,
why should the candidates be or be treated
as anything more than television performers?
And as we all know, television performers
are paid to look good and say their lines well
and not much more. Great thought is not re-
quired and may even be detrimental. How
do you make sense of a great thought in a

16 W&L

 

30-second TV spot? In 30 seconds what you
can do is roll up your sleeves, throw your
coat over your shoulder, and mix it up with
the common folk. Be a regular guy. It may
soon be that the requirements for a candidate
will be roughly the same as the requirements
for television anchors—a nice smile and a
good head of hair.

The last president to whom that meant
nothing was Harry Truman, who whistle-
stopped across the country and did not de-
pend on the press to spread his message. He
had no choice. Most of the major news-
papers—there wasn’t enough television to
matter—thought Harry Truman was a loser,
and they said so. Truman won and took a
great deal of pleasure making fools of The
Chicago Tribune, which had a headline say-
ing he’d lost, and H. V. Kaltenborn, the
famous radio commentator who had
reported that Truman lost. There is extant
a recording of Truman imitating Kaltenborn
giving that report. It isn’t that good an im-
itation, but Truman’s malicious pleasure in
the moment is marvelous. I remember my
mother listening to Truman on the radio,
laughing with glee, and shouting at our floor
model Philco radio that popular campaign
slogan, ‘‘Give ’em hell, Harry!’’ That is the
extent of my presidential campaign
memories.

I have never covered one. During 29 years
as a reporter I have been able to avoid any
permanent assignment in Washington, a feat
of which I am inordinately proud. Linda
Ellerbee and I once volunteered to take the
White House assignment, but only if we

could wear boots and blue jeans to work.

NBC did not take us seriously, so I don’t

think that counts. I did cover part of a

French presidential campaign, but that is a
whole different process.

In 1960 in Maryland, I did tag along
behind Henry Cabot Lodge while he cam-
paigned as the Republican vice presidential
candidate. Lodge was, by all accounts, a
devoted public servant and a skilled
diplomat, but in 1960, he was a disastrous
campaigner. All I remember of Lodge as a
candidate is his trench coat, a taupe beauty
with a wide collar, epaulets, and enough
grenade rings to support a smallish
revolution.

Even if I don’t remember what he said,
I am reasonably well convinced that he did
not plagiarize, and although he was a rich
and handsome man, if he was having an ex-
tramarital affair, his discretion was sufficient
to keep it from us. Not that I’m sure we
would have cared. Those were the days of
the double standard, and one simply did not
tell—except on women, of course. I’m sure
there had to be at least one reporter who
knew full well in 1960 that John Fitzgerald
Kennedy had an eye for the ladies. But sex
was not something much mentioned or
discussed, and I suspect that anyone who
said adultery right out loud would have been
shunned by his colleagues and perhaps
disciplined by his boss.

Now it’s such common currency that
George Bush Jr. felt obliged to deny that his
father fooled around, even though no one
had asked him if his father did or said that
his father had. But there was a rumor. In
Raleigh, N.C., at the Rainbow Coalition
convention, Rex Harris, a director, warned
Jesse Jackson’s supporters that The Atlan-
ta Constitution was going to publish ‘‘a lot
of garbage’’ about their candidate. He told
Bill Krueger of The News and Observer that
the article would accuse Rev. Jackson of be-
ing a womanizer. The Constitution denied
it was going to do any such thing, and no
one seems able to learn where that rumor got
started.

The point is that since last May, the press
has somehow been given or given itself a war-
rant to wander around in the candidates’
libidos, and that has made the various cam-
paigns nervous enough that they feel oblig-
ed to deny stories that have not even been
written! Which means, of course, that
everyone is then free to report that the can-
didate has denied what he was never accus-
ed of doing. And all of this because of Sen.
Gary Hart and Donna Rice. But the story of
Sen. Hart’s downfall, at least in this cam-
paign, has less to do with sex than it does
with judgment.

In an article in The New York Times
Magazine, Sen. Hart was asked about the

common Washington gossip about his
philandering. He said, in effect, catch me if
you can. The Miami Herald could and did.
Rather than compliment the Herald for win-
ning the contest, Sen. Hart said that Rice was
merely passing through, as it were—in the
front door and out the back—and when that
one wouldn’t fly, he bitterly blamed the press
for his troubles. But the press did not tell him
to meet Rice at his home in Washington after
he’d invited the press to keep an eye on him,
it did not tell him to lie about it when he was
caught, and it didn’t tell him to quit the race.
These were decisions he made, and two of
the three reveal a lack of judgment. In fact,
perhaps all three do.

Members of the press, as it turns out,
may be the only people around who care
about the first two lapses. Sen. Hart made
speeches in Philadelphia in late September
and Charlotte, N.C., in early October—there
may have been others, but those are the two
I’ve seen reported—and in the question-and-
answer periods following his speeches, no
one at either meeting mentioned Donna Rice
or Sen. Hart’s alleged womanizing. He ask-
ed reporters in Charlotte, ‘‘What do you
make of that? I think the American people
care about issues, not personalities.’’ Or
perhaps they don’t care about the per-
sonalities of those who are no longer can-
didates for the presidency.

Once Sen. Biden dropped out of the cam-
paign, news organizations stopped digging
into his speeches and his academic record.
There was no longer a reason to, and most
reporters do not want to appear to be kick-
ing a man when he’s down. There is a fine
line between digging for facts and unprin-
cipled badgering.

ometimes we not only don’t badger,
q:: don’t even have to dig. What we

need is handed to us, as was the case
with Sen. Biden.

John Sasso, Gov. Michael Dukakis’s
campaign manager and friend, had a video
tape made showing Sen. Biden cribbing not
only the speech, but the educational
background of British Labor Party leader
Neil Kinnock, a fiery, crowd-pleasing orator.
Someone else—I don’t know who—made
public Sen. Biden’s law school plagiarism.
_ That by itself wouldn’t have meant much.
Why should the one-time excess of a 24-year-
old student have anything to do with a
48-year-old man? But if the man is still at
it all these years later, his judgment is
questionable.

It also illustrates that he does not think
much if he has to filch ideas. It is part of
what O. W. Riegel, professor of journalism
emeritus, talked about in a speech during a

me go AL &

 

Washington and Lee Alumni College last Ju-
ly. He said American presidential politics are
becoming more and more a matter of postur-
ing, of taking popular positions, and that
both parties seem to be moving toward the
political center. Riegel said: ‘‘This cluster-
ing around the center portends, I fear, a
reluctance of the leading candidates to
engage in serious debate of the real issues and
the radical reforms they may suggest, and to
rely more than ever upon slogans, catchy
phrases, and the polishing of attractive
images.”’

It is, I believe, that desire for an attrac-
tive image that got Gov. Dukakis to accept
Sasso’s resignation. The governor seemed to
believe that the videotape somehow detracted
from his positive campaign and his image as
a skilled manager, even though the tape pro-
vided factual information and proved that
Sen. Biden was a plagiarist. Sasso tarnished
the image, and he had to go. Reuven Frank
calls his dismissal ‘‘absolutely inexcusable;
he was fired for doing what a campaign
manager is supposed to do.’’

Somehow Gov. Dukakis seemed to think
the tape was a dirty trick, and if he does, I
don’t agree. A dirty trick is what Ewa
Barschel was accused of doing in the gover-
nor’s race in a West German state. A former
aide said Gov. Barschel had hired detectives
to prove that his opponent was a bisexual
and had anonymously denounced him to the
tax authorities (now that’s dirty). Gov.
Barschel resigned and some days later was
found dead under mysterious circumstances,
which makes a simple resignation seem plea-
sant enough. Still we are left with the ques-
tion asked by Ward Just, a political reporter

1

_EE UNIVERGI:

oe hoe Lacie

- eae ©. PRE
re e y Fear

a

ws &
oF she

Es

a LAMBS See

and novelist, ‘‘What’s wrong with pointing
out that your opponent is a lightweight?’’
(Richard Reeves’ column, United Press Syn-
dicate, Oct. 8, 1987).

Some Democratic Party leaders do not
see it that way. Sen. Robert Byrd said, “‘An
avalanche of constant negative campaign
advertising, or ‘attack videos,’ will only bury
the Democratic Party.’’ But that, too,
smacks of image polishing. If a healthy, even
basically honest campaign is more than these
candidates can survive, perhaps they are the
wrong candidates.

The Republicans may not have done
much better at fielding candidates, but with
the exception of Robertson, no one’s
character has been questioned. Yet. For the
moment, the Democrats are taking the heat,
and at least three writers have referred to the
Democratic campaign as ‘‘a demolition der-
by.’’ Newsweek quotes an aide to former
Gov. Bruce Babbitt as joking, ‘‘Our goal is
to be the last campaign left standing.’’

If there has ever been a campaign like this
one, I can find no record of it. Reuven Frank
says the best description he’s found of the
campaign so far was in a newspaper
editorial: ‘‘The press is spreading vicious
truths.’’ But it is not because the press is be-
ing vicious, but rather because the candidates
are being remarkably inept at playing the
game with a new set of rules, changes that
have evolved in an imperfect democratic pro-
cess. If the ‘candidates are circling the
wagons, the people on the outside riding
around and shooting in are not reporters.
They are the candidates themselves, the same
people who are on the inside.

The press only counts the casualties.

xk *& *%

I don’t know any of the would-be
presidential candidates personally. I was in
China as a reporter with Vice President Bush
in 1984, and the year before that, I walked
around refugee camps in Thailand with Kit-
ty Dukakis, the governor’s wife, and others.
In the early ’70s, I attended meetings at
WMAQ in Chicago where Rev. Jackson in-
sisted that I hire more blacks on the news
staff. Before that, I was a reporter in the
Tidewater area of Virginia and though I did
not know Pat Robertson—at least not as far
as I remember—lI did have a perfect record
with his father, Sen. A. Willis Robertson: He
never answered a single question I asked him.

Of the others, I know nothing even
remotely personal, and this article is based
on reading easily available, published
material and on talking to colleagues who
have political experience in the field. The
conclusions are my own. So are the mistakes.

W&L 17

 

MURPH!

 

WE&L’s University Proctor
Is Definitely Not Mother Goose

 

By Brian D. Shaw

irst, let’s get the name straight. His

given name is Charles Fletcher Mur-

ray, but you wouldn’t know it without
a formal introduction. Shortly after he
entered this world on Nov. 22, 1921, Charles
Fletcher Murray became ‘‘Bob.’’ The
nickname was given to him by his brother,
Clarence, who had struggled unsuccessfully
to pronounce ‘‘brother.”’

So for the first 40 years or so he was call-
ed ‘‘Bob’’ or sometimes ‘‘Bobby’’—not
Charlie, not Chuck, not even Fletch.

Then, in 1962, Bob McHenry, ’54, the
Washington and Lee basketball coach at that
time, dubbed Charles Fletcher Murray with
the name that has stuck with him ever since.
It’s one of those rare one-word names—the
kind that become so familiar that whenever
someone Says it, everyone (at least everyone
at Washington and Lee and most everyone
in Lexington) knows immediately to whom
the speaker is referring.

The Greeks have Socrates, Aristotle, and
Plato. Classical music has Beethoven, Bach,
and Mozart. The entertainment world has
Cher, Madonna, and Liberace.

And Washington and Lee has Murph.

he year was 1958, and things were

heating up in Lexington. The rowdy

and boisterous behavior of Wash-
ington and Lee students had caused a local
attorney to write a letter to President Fran-
cis P. Gaines and the Associated Press com-
plaining about student conduct.

Faced with negative publicity, the facul-
ty acted quickly to appoint a committee to
study the problem and make recommenda-
tions for improvements. According to the
Jan. 2, 1959, edition of the Southern Col-
legian, ‘‘Almost all the rules (adopted by the
committee) amounted to a little more than
plain common sense and social propriety.
But tucked away in an insignificant little
paragraph near the end of the document
presented by the faculty committee it read:

“There shall be established the office of
University proctor to consist of one full-time
employee equipped with automobile and

18 W&L

having appropriate authority to assist in car-
rying out University regulations.’ ”’

A University proctor? Just what was the
purpose of a University proctor? The
students spent some time wondering about
that through letters and editorials in the
pages of the Southern Collegian and the
Ring-tum Phi. Would the proctor be a
nursemaid, as some feared? Or, worse still,
would the proctor operate as a kind of one-
man goon squad, intent on ruining the
students’ good times? |

“‘The office of University proctor was
created this year to guide the bad boys of
W&L along the path of social
righteousness,’’ said a story in a 1958 edi-
tion of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity’s newslet-
ter, Virginia Gentleman. ‘‘The duties of his
office consist largely of playing Mother
Goose during party weekends; but to fill in
the preponderance of spare time, he will also
issue tickets for campus parking and traffic
violations.”

Mother Goose turned out to be one
Charles Fletcher Murray, a 12-year veteran
of the Lexington Police Department. And he
was not on the campus long before the tenor
of the students’ remarks began to change.

“*It is remarkable how student opinion
has rapidly crystallized concerning various
campus events,’’ the Ring-tum Phi wrote in
an editorial shortly after that appointment.
“*In the few days that he has been employed
by Washington and Lee, Mr. Bob Murray
is rapidly gaining the respect and friendship
of a large number of students. . . . His com-
mon sense approach to the duties of his of-
fice creates an impression that the enforce-
ment of University social regulations will be
carried out in a fair and just manner, to the
best interests of the University and its
students.”’

Murph had arrived. The W&L campus
would never be quite the same again.

Murph was thrown into the fray on his
first week, when he was asked to deal with
a series of thefts from the residence halls and
student automobiles that had occurred over
Christmas break. With the investigative

 

 

relentlessness that has been his trademark

ever since, Murph tracked down the
culprits—some local youths—within two
weeks of the thefts. First case closed.
Since that time, students, faculty, and ad-
ministrators have come to realize what an in-
telligent choice that faculty committee made
back in 1958 when it selected Murph as the
first—and, to this moment, only—University
proctor. Virtually nothing happens on the
campus or at the fraternity houses without
Murph catching wind of it. To call Murph
ubiquitous is an understatement. Back in the
1970s, the Ring-tum Phi once reported that
Murph was sighted in three different places
at the same time on the same party night. He
was—and is—everywhere. Or so it seems.
Aspiring artists who have climbed to the
top of Washington Hall late at night deter-
mined to give Ol’ George a fresh coat of

 

 

anything-but-white paint have often found
Murph waiting at the bottom of their
stepladder once their handiwork is finished.

On Homecoming and Reunion week-
ends, or whenever alumni return to campus
for that matter, many wind up tracking
Murph down to swap ‘‘remember-the-time-
you-caught-me’’ stories.

And he has, indeed, caught many of
them over the years.

Murph has given respectability to the
term ‘‘lurking.’’ He is not opposed to stand-
ing behind some bushes (not hiding in them,
exactly) to gain a better view or listening
post. He was doing precisely that one night
in the early 1960s when a group of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity members were
entertaining some sorority women from
Madison College after hours. Murph ap-
peared from behind the bushes to inform the

 

SAEs that they were in violation of Univer-
sity rules and that the women would have to
leave.

As the lovelorn fraternity men were
returning to the house, one turned to another
and asked plaintively: ‘‘Doesn’t that damn
guy ever sleep?’’

Murph loves to tell that story on himself
because it illustrates his commitment to his
job and to Washington and Lee. He also
notes that his wife, Marita, tells their friends
that Murph ‘‘doesn’t know the way home.”’

“I enjoy getting out there at night,’’
Murph says, with no apology in his voice.
**T’ve left home at 9 on many a Saturday
night, and not gotten back into bed before
4 or 5 the next morning. Back in the days
when we had Saturday classes, I would come
in early, stay for the football game, and then
check all the fraternity houses and parties.

  

That made for a long day.”’

‘‘Murph works longer hours than
anybody I know,’’ says Lewis John, ’58,
dean of students at W&L. ‘‘When I think of
the person Washington and Lee can least af-
ford to lose, Murph has to be right up there
at the top.’’

Over the span of 28 years, one would
think Murph would begin to slack off,
delegate some authority to the other securi-
ty personnel, and stay home. But anyone
who knows him knows that Murph wants to
be aware of what’s happening on the cam-
pus at every minute.

It’s not unusual to see Murph’s im-
maculate beige Cutlass with the ‘‘Murph 6’’
license plates among the first cars in the
faculty/staff parking lot on any given morn-
ing. The man himself can usually be found
prowling the parking lot in even the most in-

W&L_ 19

87

Photo by Scott J. Ferrell,

 

 

clement weather, ticket book in hand, stalk-
ing his prey—an unauthorized vehicle.

The responsibility for controlling park-
ing was included in the original job descrip-
tion for the proctor and remains an integral
part of the job, but even though the securi-
ty staff has grown to six, Murph still con-
trols the parking. It is his least favorite chore,
Murph says, and one that on occasion has
forced him to think about retirement.

‘‘Parking wasn’t such a big problem
when I first started,’’ he says, ‘‘but in the
mid-’70s more and more students started
bringing their cars to campus. Now it is a
headache.’’

harles Fletcher Murray was born in
CCisieen His mother died when he

was 10 and the family was forced to
move to Lynchburg. He attended E.C. Glass
High School there and made a name for
himself as a four-year starting guard on the
E.C. Glass football team. The then-6-0,
215-pound lineman played both offense and
defense and was named All-State in his
junior year.

Although he lived in Lynchburg, Murph
never severed his ties with his native Lex-
ington. Many Saturday mornings Murph
could be found on U.S. 501 outside of
Lynchburg hitching a ride to his grand-
mother’s house in Lexington.

Shortly after his graduation from E.C.
Glass, Murph joined the Marines and was
assigned to the USS Savannah, a light cruiser
stationed in the Mediterranean with respon-
sibilities for patrolling North Africa, Sicily,
and southern Italy.

The U.S. had become actively involved
in World War II at the time, and on Sept.
11, 1943, an event occurred on the Savan-
nah that had a profound effect on the burly
young Virginian. As the cruiser was lending
support to the Battle of Salerno, a
2,000-pound German aerial bomb came
crashing down through mid-ship. The bomb
completely destroyed a 6-inch gun with an
explosion that rocked the entire ship. The
sick bay, where Murph had been shortly
before the bombing, was wiped out.

Two hundred and six men died in that ex-
plosion. Murph remembers in graphic detail
the screams of the wounded and men afire
jumping overboard. Although severely
damaged, the ship continued to float and
fight until it could make it to port.

“*It was horrible,’’ Murph says in typical
understatement.

Murph remains an active member of the
USS Savannah association, a group that
meets annually to remember their fallen com-
rades. On big weekends at W&L Murph
often breaks out his navy-blue baseball cap

20 W&L

emblazoned with the USS Savannah’s name
on the front.

Once he got back to the states, Murph
was stationed at the Naval Mine Depot near
Gloucester, Va. He used a 48-hour pass to
return to Lexington where he married his
longtime sweetheart, Marita Frenche Mays.

Shortly after his discharge, Murph
returned to Lexington to settle down. He
needed a job fast, he remembers, because he
had a wife and ‘‘no one was going to take
care of her for me.’’ Although he thought
about signing on with the local telephone
company, that job fell through. Then he saw
an ad in the newspaper for an opening with
the Lexington Police Department and decid-
ed to give it a try.

 

The ‘‘shy’’ rookie Lexington policeman poses
for a photograph in his full dress uniform.

**T was a little shy at first,’ he says,
laughing now at the thought. ‘‘But I finally
got used to the uniform and everything was
fine.”’

Photos taken of him at the time,
meticulously preserved by Marita in her
Murph scrapbook, show a man who looked
like every Northerner’s misconception of a
Southern cop. Shy? Weighing in at 251
pounds (‘‘285 with all my equipment,’’ he
admits) and with his close-cropped dark hair,
state-of-the-art jowls, and a scowl that could
melt iron, Murph looks anything but shy.

What is not apparent in that photograph,
though, is Murph’s absolute sense of fairness
and his ability to deal with people from all
walks of life.

**T never had any trouble when I was a
policeman,’’ Murph says. ‘‘There was a lot
more going on in town then than there is
now, but I could go anywhere in the city
without a problem. I never drew my gun in
12 years with the Lexington Police
Department.”’

 

It was during that time that Murph
developed the investigative skills that have
become legend on the W&L campus. One
year alone he recovered seven stolen cars, a
record for the Lexington Police Department
at that time. His exemplary work earned him
a ‘‘Policeman of the Year’’ citation in 1958.

As a Lexington policeman, Murph came
to know a good number of Washington and
Lee students while fulfilling his duties.
Although, as he says, ‘‘the students didn’t
party then like they do now, but they did par-
ty,’ Murph characterizes the W&L men as
generally polite and respectful to the police.
It was students from other schools, he says,
who posed the problems.

“‘T remember one time I came up on a
Wahoo who was breaking windows in the
dining hall,’’ Murph relates, chuckling
before he gets to the punch line. ‘‘I went up
to him and told him to stop. The boy took
a swing at me and missed. Five W&L
students who were standing nearby jumped
him and I had to pull them off that Wahoo.’’

As a Lexington policeman, Murph was
involved in community affairs. He played a
mean game of softball for several teams in
the area and was a member of the Lions
Club. It was a fellow club member,
Claybrook Griffith, then professor of
economics at W&L, who convinced Murph
to pursue the job as University proctor. Grif-
fith was chairman of the faculty committee
looking into student behavior—or
misbehavior, actually.

**T had an idea of what I was getting in-
to when I took this job,’’ Murph says, with
the luxury of 28 years’ worth of 20-20 hind-
sight. ‘‘I knew it wasn’t going to be a bed
of roses.”’

urph is often heard before he is
seen. As he wends his way around
the corridors and buildings at

Washington and Lee, he whistles and
cackles, crows and coos, producing the most
unusual collection of noises heard since Spike
Jones was in his heyday.

While making his daily rounds of the
campus, Murph has managed to discover the
prime locations for coffee and doughnuts.
On a given morning, he can be found in the
athletic department, swapping stories with
the coaches as they chow down on doughnuts
(“‘the light kind,’’ he says) that Murph drove
all the way out to the supermarket to pur-
chase. Not long after that, he might be found
in the News Office, talking about the past
weekend’s events, or in the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics, trading
slightly ribald jokes with the secretaries there.

But when Murph doesn’t want to be seen,
he isn’t. He likes to become invisible when

 

 

 

 

he is conducting an investigation.

“*It is Murph’s bulldog nature that real-
ly impresses me,’’ Dean John says. ‘‘Once
he gets on to something, he doesn’t let go
until the case is solved.’’

“‘Murph’s experience in law enforcement
makes him an expert in the field of investiga-
tion,’’ says Bruce Beard, chief of the Lex-
ington Police Department.

Several years ago there was a rash of
stolen and forged checks in the residence
halls. Murph worked weeks on the case,
John relates, comparing signatures on the
checks with handwriting samples until he
found the culprit. Murph’s work was upheld
by a former handwriting analyst with the
Virginia State Police.

Murph has also been known to use
modern technology in his investigations. In
another incident in recent years, cash was
systematically disappearing from wallets and
billfolds in the residence halls. Murph had
an idea who the thief was, but he couldn’t
quite catch him. Then he found a way.

He placed some currency in a wallet in
one of the dorm rooms, then dusted the
wallet and its contents with invisible powder
that could be seen only under a special light.
He waited until the money disappeared, and
then he confronted the suspect.

**T told the boy we thought he was tak-
ing the money, but he denied it,’’ Murph
says. ‘‘So I took him down to the police sta-
tion, and we stuck his hand under the light.
It lit up like a Christmas tree, and he
confessed.’’

Murph admits that he enjoys the hard
work and tensions of investigations, but he
takes no pleasure in seeing W&L students in
trouble, let alone arrested.

“*T don’t think students are less honorable
now than they were in years past,’’ he says.
**T believe in the Honor System, and I think
all students ought to know it to the last
letter.”’

Dean John, for one, is constantly im-
pressed with Murph’s ability to deal with the
students—especially over a span of seven stu-
dent generations.

‘‘Campus police can be viewed in many
different ways,’’ John says. ‘‘On some cam-
puses they are hard-nosed and leave little
room for the individual. By comparison, we
have a very low-key operation. It was only
three years ago that the security force started
wearing uniforms.

‘*Murph tries to protect the students from
outside forces, but he also protects them
from themselves. The students recognize
that. Murph gets more respect from the
students than most faculty members.’’

Police Chief Beard, who has worked with
Murph since 1970, says the proctor’s rela-

 

 

 

Marita and Murph at their Lexington home

tionship with the Lexington Police Depart-
ment has helped keep open the lines of com-
munication between the department and the
University.

*‘Murph and his staff really do work well
with our department,’’ says Beard. ‘‘There
have been many times when I have needed
some information for an investigation, and
Murph helped me get it without going
through a lot of red tape.

**Seeing Murph out on big party nights
is like having another officer out there. He’s
always patrolling the campus and the frater-
nities. He has helped us avoid a lot of troub-
le just by being out there.’’

 

With age 65 two years behind him and
given the wear and tear of dealing daily with
parking problems, Murph has cast an eye to
his eventual retirement. He has gone so far
as to submit his resignation, only to have it
returned to him by Dean John with a plea
to stay one more year.

Murph admits that he will have trouble
filling his time when he does retire. He’Il miss
the big weekends, the camaraderie with the
students, faculty, and administration, and
the challenge of a good investigation. But
retirement will come, eventually.

And maybe then he’II be able to find his
way home.

W&L 21

 

Funnies

Collection

 

Art Wood,

of Cartoon Collectors

°50, (s the King

 

a2 OCKVILLE, Md.—As far as Art
= ‘Wood is concerned, the funny papers
=) are no laughing matter.

You can have your great masters—your
Rembrandts and your Picassos, your Dalis
and your Goyas.

Art Wood, ’50, will take his Bud Fishers
and his Walt Kelleys, his Sir David Lows and
his Charles Dana Fishers. He’ll take those
four cartoonists/illustrators/caricaturists,
and he’ll take the more than 2,000 others
whose work is contained in his private
collection—a compilation of original cartoon
art that is generally considered the largest
and most comprehensive in the world.

For almost five decades now, Wood has
been gathering the original drawings of the
world’s cartoonists. When he stopped count-
ing almost a decade ago, he had more than
30,000 drawings. He reckons the number is
closer to 40,000 by now.

And when he hasn’t been collecting other
artists’ cartoons, he has been drawing his
own. Wood’s political cartoons have been
published the world over and have earned
him more than a dozen major awards. Even
today he draws at least two cartoons a week
for his clients in the nation’s capital.

In fact, the art of cartooning has been so
much a part of Art Wood’s life that, in the
midst of a conversation with him, you begin
to glance at a space just above his head,
searching for a balloon containing the words
he has just spoken.

  

he cartoon, Art Wood is saying,

without the aid of balloons, ‘‘is a ma-

jor American art form. More and
more, I think people are beginning to
recognize that fact.’’

22 W&L

By Jeffery G. Hanna

Wood stops short of appending ‘‘and it’s
about time’’ to that statement. Clearly,
though, he thinks it is about time. And he
has little patience for those in the art world
who stubbornly resist efforts to elevate car-
tooning to what he thinks is its legitimate
place in the scheme of things.

**The art world has always drawn a line
between the fine arts and cartooning,”’
Wood explains, launching into a practiced
offensive. ‘‘But in the history of this coun-
try most of the major artists began as car-
toonists or illustrators.

‘You can go back to the beginning: Ben-
jamin Franklin, who started the Saturday
Evening Post, did the first political cartoon
in this country—the snake cut into various
sections for the ‘Join or Die’ cartoon; Paul
Revere, who actually was a silversmith by
trade, was probably more famous for his car-
toons than for his silversmithing. Those are
two examples. There are many others.
Gilbert Stuart was a cartoonist as were
almost all the Ash Can painters and a long,
long list of major American artists—
Winslow Homer, Remington, Russell. All of
them were cartoonists at some point in their
careers.”’

Even if he finds agreement on that point,
Wood is apt to meet continued resistance
from certain elements within what he calls
‘*the somewhat snobbish art community.’’

‘“What they always try to do to detract
from this view is to say that the cartoons or
illustrations were really not that artist’s best
work, so it shouldn’t count,’’ Wood ex-
plains. ‘‘But that really isn’t true because
some of the very best work by many of these
artists were the drawings that they did in the
cartoon-illustration line.’’

Slowly, if surely, Wood is winning the
battle. He is finding that more and more
American museums are recognizing the car-
toon’s legitimate place in the world of art and
are staging major exhibits. He has done more
than 60 exhibitions of his collection in recent
years.

‘*What the major museums in this coun-
try are realizing is that the cartoon is a ma-
jor American art form that bears on all facets
of the culture,’’ says Wood. ‘‘Not only does
it cover political life, but it also comments
on clothing and on language and on so many
other things that are part of the total
American culture.”’

In fact, Wood argues convincingly that
Americans can see the history of their coun-
try and culture better through cartoons than
in any other way.

‘All you need to do is pick up a history
book. All the major history books that I’ve
ever seen have been profusely illustrated with
cartoons because it’s a much easier way to
absorb history. You see it quickly. It’s visual.
It has impact. And now that television is
around, that is even more the case because
we are all so visually oriented these days.’’

elevision was not around back in 1939

when 12-year-old James Arthur

Wood Jr. accompanied his father, a

1924 graduate of the W&L School of Law

and then a Washington attorney, on a trip

to meet the editorial cartoonist of the Rich-

mond Times-Dispatch, a man named Fred
O. Seibel.

The senior Wood was also a collector—

a stamp collector. A show of his stamps was

scheduled for the Post Office Building in

Washington, and he was hoping to include

 

 

the original Seibel cartoon of the Byrd ex-
pedition to the South Pole in that exhibition.

‘“That was the first time that I had any
exposure to a cartoonist. My father was a
fine artist in his own right. And, like most
children, I had always liked to draw,”’ says
Wood. ‘‘Getting a Fred Seibel original not
only heightened my interest in my own draw-
ing but got me started collecting.”’

Once started, the young Wood was
relentless in his pursuit of original cartoons.
His became a familiar face in the art depart-
ments of the Washington newspapers and,
later, at the major New York syndicates
where the nation’s top cartoonists all work-
ed in those days. His collecting technique was
simple: he made a pest of himself.

‘Once I became a cartoonist myself, I
had cringes of terror thinking about what I
used to do,’’ says Wood.

‘‘Back then there were four daily
newspapers in Washington. I would set off
on an afternoon, find the paper’s cartoonist,
and sit all day and watch him work. I know
from having the same sort of thing happen
to me what a terrible imposition that was for
the artists.

‘*But I figured the best way to find out
how to do what they did was to study them
at work. I never had formal art training. All
the training I got came from observing these
artists at work.’’

The first subjects of Wood’s forays were
the Berrymans, a father-and-son cartoonist
team who both won Pulitzer Prizes while
working for the erstwhile Washington Star.

‘*I’d ask the artists for an original draw-
ing, one that they particularly liked or one
that I liked,’’ he explains. ‘‘They weren’t
reluctant, really, because I was very in-
terested in them and their work.

‘*A lot of them didn’t give their work
away at all, even in those days. Some of the
illustrators sold their work. I remember, in
particular, James Montgomery Flagg, who
was one of the top artists for the Associated
Press in New York. When I first asked him
for a drawing, he said, ‘You know, I sell my
work for a big price.’ I said, ‘Yes, I know
that. But I’m young and I haven’t got the
big price and I want one of your drawings.’
You had to do it in a rather brash way.’’

On trips with his father to New York,
where most of the newspaper syndicates that
distributed both the editorial cartoons and
the funny paper strips were located, Wood
would bluff his way into the office and strike
up a friendship with the artists. Occasional-
ly, he posed as a delivery boy. And once in
a while he would make an appointment by
telephoning the artist and announcing
himself, in his deepest bass, as ‘‘Arthur
Wood of Washington.’’ The artist often

24 W&L

PRR ee

 

 

Art Wood examines a portion of his cartoon

 

exhibition that was on display at Strathmore
Hall Arts Center in Bethesda, Md., this fall.

assumed that Mr. Wood was an Internal
Revenue Service official and invited him up.

As Wood’s collection began to grow, so
did his own cartooning ability. His earliest
work appeared in neighborhood and school
publications. But his big break as a car-
toonist came when he enlisted in the Navy
out of high school and was assigned to boot
camp at Bainbridge, Md. There, he became
staff cartoonist for the Bainbridge Main-
sheet, the camp’s paper. Not long after that,
he was shipped back to Washington to join
a staff of artists with the Navy’s All Hands
magazine and the Ships Editorial Associa-
tion, which distributed material to bases
around the world.

‘*That was a good opportunity for me,”’
says Wood. ‘‘For one thing, I liked the Navy.
And they had a great group of cartoonists
who were frozen here in Washington.”’

Among the cartoonists with whom Wood
found himself working was Hank Ketcham,
the father of Dennis the Menace.

‘‘We did everything—maps, posters, gag
cartoons, a comic strip. We even did some
secret work, some cartoon renderings of the
development of the atomic bomb.”’

By the time he arrived on the Washington
and Lee campus in the fall of 1946, Art
Wood’s career as a cartoonist was well
underway. In fact, he contributed political
cartoons to the Washington Star throughout
his undergraduate days. His work also ap-
peared regularly in issues of the Southern
Collegian, the University’s humor magazine

which was filled with student-drawn cartoons
at that time.

‘‘Cartooning was quite big on the cam-
pus then,’’ says Wood. ‘‘I can’t make any
comparisons since I don’t know the situation
with the student publications there today, but
we had a staff with a good sense of humor
and the cartoons were a great way to make
fun of college life.

‘‘. think that was probably true
throughout the country. Mort Walker is the
artist who draws Beetle Bailey. When I first
met Mort at a meeting of the National Car-
toonists Society some years after I got out
of Washington and Lee, I confessed I had
a guilt complex about him from my days on
the Collegian at W&L. When we needed to
fill some space and I hadn’t gotten a cartoon
done, I’d lift Mort’s stuff from The
Missourian (a student publication at the
University of Missouri). I never asked per-
mission; I just did it. When I told Mort about
this, he laughed and said, ‘I’ll tell you
something. When I was at The Missourian
we were always lifting your stuff from the
Collegian.’ ”’

Wood still thinks the work that appeared
in the Southern Collegian and other W&L
campus publications in those days was of a
particularly high quality. He singles out a
classmate, Halcott G. (Hack) Heyward III,
for special praise.

‘*I tried very hard to encourage Hack to
go into the (cartooning) business, but he
decided he would stay with the business
world,’’ says Wood. ‘‘He could have been
an excellent cartoonist. His work for the Col-
legian was very professional.’’

One of the projects for which Wood is
still remembered at Washington and Lee is
the student publication commemorating the
University’s bicentennial in 1949. Wood
edited the booklet, titled ‘‘200 Years
Young,’’ which included tributes from
several prominent journalists and historians.

But what made it particularly notewor-
thy was the series of original cartoons drawn
especially for the book by such preeminent
cartoonists as Walt Disney, Bud Fisher,
Chester Gould, and Chic Young, to name a
few. Through his contacts in the business,
Wood managed to get birthday greetings to
Washington and Lee from the likes of
Donald Duck, Mickey Mouse, Dick Tracy,
Mutt and Jeff, Blondie and Dagwood, and
many, many others.

Wood majored in English and history at
W&L but audited as many journalism
courses as he could and took a few art
courses as well.

‘‘Marion Junkin was just starting out
teaching art at that time,’’ Wood remembers.
‘‘I took some courses under him, but I

 

 

 

remember my primary relationship with him
and the art department came in my senior
year when I was president of Fancy Dress
and we turned the Doremus Gymnasium in-
to King Arthur’s court, complete with three-
dimensional, motorized figures in the Disney
tradition.’’

Wood went so far as to contact friends
of his in Hollywood to get set designs for
movies that had been made of the King Ar-
thur era.

When he left Washington and Lee in
1950, Wood had a job lined up as editorial
cartoonist for the Houston Chronicle. He
went from Lexington to Richmond to buy
a car for the trip to Texas and stopped off
at the Richmond newspaper to visit with
some acquaintances. That visit resulted in an
offer to become editorial cartoonist for the
Richmond News Leader. Wood never made
it to Texas.

He spent seven years drawing the political
cartoons for the News Leader, moved to the
Pittsburgh Press for six more years of the
same, and finally wound up back in
Washington, his home area, where he has
worked for the U.S. Independent Telephone
Association and, more recently, established
his own company, which specializes in—
cartoons, of course.

very wall of every room of Art

Wood’s five-bedroom home in this

Washington suburb is filled with his
vast collection. And that is just the begin-
ning. There are the cabinets, specially built
and containing a paper-saving chemical,
chock full of drawings, all arranged
chronologically by artist. Then there are the
closets, also specially built and also filled to
the top.

So impressive is the collection that many
of the country’s leading cartoonists have
stopped by for a tour of Wood’s home-
museum.

‘*The collection is sort of all-inclusive,’’
says Wood. ‘‘When I started out, I tried to
get one example of most major artists’ work.
And in recent years I’ve increased that to get
the better work of all the artists. The vast
majority of these have been given to me. I’ve
bought very few.’’

Every facet is represented. There are
political cartoons. These include an original
Thomas Nast, which dates back to the Civil
War, a complete set of cartoons by every
Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial cartoonist,
and drawings by 20th-century British
political cartoonist Sir David Low.

There are the comic strips, which repre-
sent the complete history of that art form.
Wood’s collection dates back to the very first
newspaper strip, The Yellow Kid, which

originally appeared in 1896 and from which
comes the phrase ‘‘yellow journalism.”’
There are five originals of The Yellow Kid
in existence today, and Wood has two of
those in his collection. Among the other pro-
minent items in the comic strip portion of
the collection are Rube Goldberg’s first car-
toon, drawn in 1906, an original of the first
daily newspaper strip (Mutt and Jeff), and
an original of the first Sunday strip (The
Katzenjammer Kids).

Then there are caricatures, including
some drawn by opera star Enrico Caruso for
an Italian newspaper, and several by Lopez
Portillo, former president of Mexico. And
there are animation cels, including the
earliest Mickey Mouse drawings and
originals from Walt Disney’s Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs. And there are illustra-
tions, including several by Charles Dana Gib-
son, best known for the ‘‘Gibson girls.”’

Perhaps most amazing of all is that the
collection is current and is growing all the
time. As soon as a new cartoonist appears
on the scene, Wood has an original drawing
in his files. ‘‘If I think the artist has got
potential, I’ll try to get a good cross section
of his or her work,’’ he says. ‘‘Otherwise,

 

I'll just add one drawing.”’
Where once he had to pester artists for
an original drawing, now young artists aspire
to be included in the collection, which is a
living history of the art of cartooning.

One of the fascinating things about the
collection is the way it traces the evolution
of the cartoon.

‘*The basic ideas are still the same. In an
editorial cartoon, you want to tell the story
that’s in the news in as vivid and as imag-
inative a way and with as much impact as
you can,”’ he says.

‘‘What has changed, and this is true for
the comic strips and the editorial cartoons,
involves the impact that television has had.
Because TV is an instantaneous medium,
people today want their information in a
hurry. A cartoon—they want to see it im-
mediately. If they don’t get it in a few
seconds, they skip it.

‘‘In the old days when we had humor
magazines, Harper’s and so forth, there was
no other competition—no radio, no TV. All
you had to do was read. Back then the car-
toons were very involved, a lot of balloons,
a lot of action, tremendous amounts of
reading material. That won’t work today.”’

W&L = 25

 

 

 

In addition to the readers’ desire for in-
stant information, newspaper cartoonists—
primarily the comic strip cartoonists—must

also adjust to a drastic reduction in the space

allotted to cartoons. The Yellow Kid ran a
full page. So did most of the Sunday
newspaper strips. Even in a daily paper, it
was customary for a single strip to be run
across the entire width of a page. Nowadays
newspapers cram as many as two dozen strips
onto one page.

**That has been a real bugaboo with all
the comic artists,’’ says Wood, who publish-
ed a book, Great Cartoonists and Their Art,
earlier this year. ‘‘It’s very sad in many ways
because when I grew up you used to have a
full page of one artist’s work. Today it’s
postage-stamp size. I can’t imagine, even for
young people today, having to read some of
the complex dialogue and drawings when
they’re running down to one newspaper col-
umn in width.

‘*Visually it’s been a tremendous blow
because you really can’t see the drawings.
And great artists like Hal Foster, who did
Prince Valiant for many years, finally had
to give up. He once told me, ‘It just doesn’t
make any sense for me to spend a whole
week doing a beautiful drawing when all they
do is reduce it down to where they can’t read
it.’ He wound up doing heads and shoulders
and a little dialogue, which is very sad
because he used to do these wonderful bat-
tle scenes with the knights jousting. Today
you simplify the drawing to the point of
absurdity.”’

Wood does not know where the current
trend will lead. He does, however, insist that
newspapers will never eliminate their funny
papers—not unless they want to eliminate
many, many readers.

**You get on a bus or a subway and study
the people who are reading newspapers.
What are they looking at? The vast majori-
ty are looking at either the funnies or the
sports. It’s always been that way.

‘‘That’s why Hearst and Pulitzer paid
such fantastic salaries to the earliest car-
toonists and battled so hard to get them.
Some of those artists were getting $100,000
a year—and not having to pay taxes back
then.”’

What Wood does expect to see is fewer
of the ‘‘continuity strips’’—that is, the fun-
nies in which the story line is serialized one
day to the next—while the humor strip
becomes the major survivor.

Meanwhile, there will always be a place
for the editorial cartoon, in Wood’s opinion.
Although there are plenty of newsroom
arguments about who has more impact, the
editorial writer or the editorial cartoonist,
Wood thinks there is little question. For

26 W&L

 

 

I HOPE THIS THING
DOESN’T GO TOO FAR.
IT’S PART OF A SCHEM
‘T'VE WORKED OUT AND

I HOPE IT WORKS.

OKAY, TAKE {EXCUSE ME, VITAMIN.
THOSE LINES)I WANT TO HAVE
AGAIN, (A FEW WORDS WITH
SNOWFLAKE MR. WOOD, THE
SG DUCER.

te

 

 

 

 

 

Go AN.

 

YES, MR. TRACY, PATTON
PHONED ME BUT I DON’T
UNDERSTAND ?? YOU SAY
THIS IS ALL PART OFA
PLOT TO CATCH A
CRIMINAL ?

OKAY, TAKE
YOUR NEW
“DISCOVERY “
FOR ALL I
CARE. I’M
THROUGH. THIS
() US THE END ¢

 

This Dick Tracy car-

toon is a special part

of Art Wood’s collec-
tion. In addition to

£

oy

 

signing the original
drawing, artist Chester
Gould put Art Wood
in the strip. ‘‘Mr.
Wood, the producer’’
is, in fact, Art Wood.
And the door to the
producer’s office in the
third panel bears the
name “‘A. Wood.”’

 

 

 

proof, he likes to cite a quote from William
M. Tweed, the infamous New York ‘‘Boss,”’’
who once said, ‘‘Let’s stop them damn pic-
tures!...I don’t care so much what they write
about me.:.My constituents can’t read, but,
damn it, they can see pictures.’”’

‘*There is always some tension between
the editor and the cartoonists, I think,’’ says
Wood. ‘‘However, the truth of the matter
is that the readers look at the cartoon first.
Surveys have always shown that, much to the
distress of the editorial writer.’’

There is little doubt that politicians, up
to and including presidents, pay considerable
attention to the cartoonists’ work. Each Fri-
day Ronald Reagan gets a publication call-
ed ‘‘Friday Follies’’ delivered to him. It is
a compilation of the week’s political
cartoons.

‘‘All the presidential libraries are
plastered with political cartoons,’’ says
Wood, whose own work has hung on the
walls in the White House from time to time.
‘*Political cartoons can present a wonderful
history of a presidency.’’

One of the trends that Wood does see
these days is a blurring of the distinction be-
tween political cartoons and humor cartoons.
Doonesbury may be the clearest example.
But there are also Bloom County and Berry’s
World. These and others usually appear on
the funny pages but address political issues.

‘“*Actually there has always been a cer-
tain amount of that,’’ Wood says. ‘‘Go back
to Bud Fisher’s Mutt and Jeff. You’ll see
political leaders in his strip on a regular basis
—presidents, celebrities, wrapped into the
strip in a humorous, yet satirical way.

**But I do think this has accelerated a bit
lately. There is more of that now than in the
past.”’

s his collection has steadily grown,

Art Wood has become more and

more interested in finding a perma-
nent home for it—a home other than his
own, that is.

‘“It needs to be somewhere that the
general public can have access to it,’’ says
Wood, whose most recent exhibition, ‘‘The
Art of Cartoons,’’ was held in September
and October at the Strathmore Hall Arts
Center in Bethesda, Md., less than a dozen
blocks from his home.

Although they are still on the drawing
board, there are preliminary plans to build
a museum in conjunction with Strathmore
Hall. ‘‘I think it would be an ideal location,”’
says Wood, “‘since it is just outside a major
city and could become a great attraction.”’

Until a permanent location is found,
however, Wood will continue to build his
collection and to promote the fine art of
cartooning.

 

&L Gazette

 

McClintock Elected to Board of Trustees

 

he Washington and Lee Board of

Trustees has elected William McClin-

tock III, president of McClintock
Farms Inc. of Tunica, Miss., as its newest
member. McClintock was nominated to the
trusteeship by a vote of the University’s
alumni and was elected by the board at its
meeting in Williamsburg in October.

In addition, the
Trustees reelected James
M. Ballengee, ’48L, of
Philadelphia, to his third
three-year term as rector
of the Board and also
reelected Trustees
Houston Harte, 50, of
San Antonio, Royce
Hough, ’59, of Jackson-
ville, Fla., and J. Thomas Touchton, ’60, of
Tampa, Fla., to five-year terms on the
Board.

McClintock is a 1953 graduate of
Washington and Lee, where he was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kap-
pa. He served as president of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and the In-
terfraternity Council. While at W&L,
McClintock was also a member of the White
Friars, the Cotillion Club, the ‘‘13’’ Club,
the Ring-tum Phi, the Calyx, and the
Southern Collegian.

In addition to serving as president of
McClintock Farms, he is chairman of the
Northwest Bank and president of Clayton
Elevator Inc. He is a commissioner with the
Yazoo-Mississippi Delta Levee Board, vice
president of the Tunica Gin Co., past presi-
dent of the Delta Area Boy Scouts of
America, a recipient of the Boy Scouts Silver
Beaver Award, past president of the Tunica
Rotary Club, and clerk of session and chair-
man of the trustees of the Tunica
Presbyterian Church.

McClintock has served on the
Washington and Lee Alumni Board of Direc-
tors, including one term (1984-85) as vice
president of the board. He was chairman of
the University’s Annual Fund from 1979
through 1981 and has been active in the Mid-
South Alumni Chapter.

McClintock’s election brings the number
of members on the W&L Board of Trustees
to 28.

 

The new computer laboratory in the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics is available

 

“Pie,

to students 24 hours a day. The laboratory features 29 IBM Personal System/2 Model 50

computers.

Commerce School opens
new computer laboratory

If Congress cuts next year’s budget by
$60 billion, what will be the effect on the na-
tional economy?

Nobody knows the answer to that ques-
tion, of course, but it is typical of the
forecasting problems that a professor might
ask of students in a college economics class.

Hours of research in the library would
enable the students to make some predic-
tions, and, when the next class meets, those
predictions could be discussed. But, at
Washington and Lee’s School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics, students can work
on that problem as soon as it is posed, for
all the students in the class can be sitting at
their own computer now.

Through a spontaneous series of gifts
from a number of W&L alumni, the Univer-
sity has been able to purchase and install 29
new IBM Personal System/2 Model 50 com-
puters to create a microcomputer laboratory
that will soon be hooked into a common net-
work with all computers in the Commerce
School Building.

Controlled by file servers located in the
adjoining laboratory manager’s office, the
laboratory’s network will allow professors to
work in their own offices, store information
on the file servers, and have students gain
access to the data in the microcomputer lab.
In that way, the laboratory can be used for
individualized class instruction as well as for
classroom assignments.

Among the programs already on the
computers is the Dow Jones Information
Retrieval system, which connects to an off-
campus data base. In addition, some of the
computers have access to statistical programs
on the University’s mainframe computer.

‘‘This computer lab will allow faculty
members time to focus on the challenging
task of curriculum revision as courses are
overhauled to incorporate microcomputer
technology,’’ said Larry C. Peppers, dean of
the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

‘*The laboratory speaks to a critical need
here,’’ Peppers added.

Earl Edwards, ’69, has been appointed
the full-time manager of the laboratory.

W&L 27

 

   

SES SSS

New members of the W&L faculty include (first row, from left) Lisa Alty, Alexandra Brown,

    

Cecile West-Settle, Janine Hathorn, Leslie Jane Federer, and Ramon Ramos; (second row, from
left) Krzysztof Jasiewicz, Thomas Mapp, Douglas Haddock, Elizabeth Morgan, Joel Snow,
Thomas Whaley, Neville Richardson, Kathleen Olson, Christopher Camuto, and Richard Bidlack.

New faculty appointed

A total of 21 new and visiting faculty
members joined the University when classes
began for the fall term in both the School
of Law and the undergraduate divisions.

Four of the new appointments were in the
School of Law while 17 were in the two
undergraduate divisions, the College (of arts
and sciences) and the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

Joining the School of Law faculty were
two visiting professors, Douglas R. Haddock
of St. Mary’s School of Law in San Antonio,
Texas, and Thomas W. Mapp of the Institute
of Law Research and Reform at the Univer-
sity of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada. In ad-
dition, J. Kevin Green, who is associate pro-
fessor of accounting in the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics, has been
named an adjunct professor in the law school
where he will teach a class in accounting.

The Frances Lewis Law Center has nam-
ed Doug M. Rendleman as its Scholar in
Residence for the fall semester. Rendleman
is the Godwin Professor at the Marshall-
Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary. He will be conducting
research on law form and teaching a seminar
in injunction enforcement.

Meanwhile, the new members of the
undergraduate faculty in the College were:
Lisa T. Alty, instructor in chemistry; Lore
M. H. Amlinger, assistant professor of Ger-
man; Richard Bidlack, assistant professor of
history; Alexandra R. Brown, instructor in
religion; Christopher A. Camuto, instructor

28 W&L

in English; Leslie Jane Federer, assistant pro-
fessor of mathematics; Thomas W. Forrest,
part-time instructor in music; Janine
Hathorn, assistant professor of physical
education; Krzysztof Jasiewicz, visiting
associate professor of sociology; and
Elizabeth Morgan, assistant professor of
English.

Also, Kathleen Olson, assistant professor
of fine arts; Capt. Ramon Ramos, assistant
professor of military science; R. Neville
Richardson, Howerton Visiting Professor of
Religion; Col. Joel L. Snow, professor of
military science; Cecile West-Settle, assistant
professor of romance languages; and
Thomas P. Whaley, professor of computer
science.

One new member joined the under-
graduate faculty in the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. He is David N.
Wiest, visiting instructor of accounting. He
previously taught accounting at W&L from
1981 to 1984.

University receives NSF grant

The National Science Foundation has
awarded Washington and Lee a $30,850
matching grant with which the University has
purchased a nuclear magnetic resonance
spectrometer for the department of
chemistry.

The new equipment is the latest element
in the University’s efforts to update and
upgrade its laboratory equipment in the
sciences.

According to H. Thomas Williams,
associate dean of the College, the Universi-
ty has matched the NSF grant with funds
from the $200,000 grant from the J. Howard
Pew Freedom Trust. Over the past two years,
Washington and Lee has received three
grants and one bequest to be used primarily
for the purchase of new laboratory
equipment.

The nuclear magnetic resonance spec-
trometer will be used both for laboratory
courses in the department of chemistry and
in the University’s Robert E. Lee Research
Program for undergraduates. It is used to
elucidate the structure of organic particles
and will be particularly useful for
Washington and Lee’s premedical students
since it is the basis for magnetic resonance
imaging used in medical applications.

‘*We are delighted that, through the Na-
tional Science Foundation’s grant and with
the continued assistance of the Pew Foun-
dation, our students will have access to this
important piece of equipment on a daily
basis in our laboratories,’’ said Williams. ‘‘It
is One more step along the way toward
strengthening our science and mathematics
departments.’’

The National Science Foundation,
created in 1950, funds research and educa-
tion in nearly all fields of science and
engineering through grants, contracts, and
cooperative agreements to colleges, univer-
sities, and other institutions in all parts of
the United States.

Mock Convention moves up

In an effort to provide its participants
with a greater challenge, Washington and
Lee’s 1988 Mock Democratic Convention
will be held in March, rather than during
Alumni Reunions in May as had been the
case with recent conventions.

The convention is now scheduled for
March 25-26. The shift to an earlier date was
made so that the event will occur before the
last of the primary elections are completed.

‘*With the last two conventions (1984 and
1980) the event lost a little of its prestige,
because the major primaries had already
taken place, which made our selection of a
candidate fairly anticlimactic,’’ explains
Chip Gist, a senior from Houston who is
serving as co-chairman of the Mock
Democratic Convention.

“If we had stuck with the traditional May
date for the 1988 convention, 45 of the 56
primaries would have taken place by then,”’
Gist says. ‘‘So we decided to move it up in
order to make it more challenging and to
restore some of the authenticity to the event.
Only 33 of the primaries will have been com-
pleted by the March date.”’

 

 

 

 

 

Gist and his fellow officers are currently
working to attract a slate of prominent
Democratic officials to speak at the conven-
tion. Although plans are incomplete, he does
predict one of the liveliest conventions in
many years.

‘“*Of the last four races, this is easily the
most interesting,’’ Gist says. ‘‘You combine
that fact with the earlier date of the conven-
tion, and we really have our hands full.’’

WA&L ranks 25th nationally
in magazine poll

Washington and Lee is rated 25th among
125 national liberal arts colleges in the latest
U.S. News & World Report survey of col-
lege presidents.

U.S. News & World Report places
schools in categories based on classifications
devised by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching. The magazine
then asks the presidents of the schools in each
of those categories to rank the top 10 institu-
tions from among those schools classified in
the same category as their own.

When the survey first appeared in 1983,
Washington and Lee was classified as a
‘smaller comprehensive university,’’ which
actually placed the University among a group
of other schools with which it had little in
common—the State University of New York
College at Buffalo and Athens State College
of Alabama, for example.

Competing in that category, Washington
and Lee was ranked No. 1 among ‘‘smaller
comprehensive universities’? east of the
Mississippi.

When the magazine conducted its second
survey, Washington and Lee’s classification
had been moved into the more prestigious
and competitive ‘‘national liberal arts’’
category—a shift that more accurately
reflected the peer institutions with whom the
University shares a common ground—i.e.,
Williams, Swarthmore, Middlebury. That
year, 1985, only the top 10 ‘‘national liberal
arts’’ schools were ranked, and Washington
and Lee did not appear. The magazine did,
however, provide an alphabetical listing of
all the colleges in the category, including
W&L, with a special note about the quality
inherent in that large group of schools.

Then, in its latest poll, U.S. News &
World Report took the ‘‘national liberal
arts’’ category to 25 places, thereby making
a parallel listing with the ‘‘national univer-
sities.”’

It is interesting to note that among the
25 schools ranked in the ‘‘national liberal
arts category,’’ Washington and Lee has the
third lowest tuition, the sixth lowest accep-
tance rate, and higher SAT scores than nine
of the schools rated above it.

 

From torts to calculus

nce a week Jim Ferguson puts
Owes his law textbooks and turns
his attention to calculus.
Not that Ferguson, a third-year law
student at Washington and Lee, isn’t fully

- immersed in the world of torts and briefs

and litigation. But on a regular basis he
sets that work aside and concentrates in-
stead on derivatives and limits and
variables.

Ferguson is the coordinator of a law
school program called Student-to-Student
Tutoring. Now in its third year, the pro-
gram provides tutors to junior and senior
high school students in Lexington and
Rockbridge County.

Every week, about 35 law students
take time out from their own studies and
spend an hour teaching subjects ranging
from chemistry and advanced math-
ematics to Latin and English literature.
Some of the tutors hold afternoon ses-
sions with students at Lexington’s
Lylburn Downing Middle School, while
others travel to the Glasgow Community
Center one evening a week to coach pupils

from Natural Bridge High School.

The law students’ efforts, Ferguson
says, have paid off. ‘“‘It really works. We
have seen grades improve; we have seen
attitudes change. We’ ve even seen one or
two students who began thinking about
going to college after they were helped by
a tutor. Of course, you can’t attribute all
of that to the tutoring, but it does help.”’

Ferguson points to one success story
with particular pride. ‘‘There was a
seventh-grader who was having some
trouble in school and was convinced she

 

Washington and Lee third-year law student Frank Bredimus works sith Matthew Had-

couldn’t do well,’’ he explains. ‘‘One of
our tutors stuck with her and kept work-
ing with her. Both her grades and her at-
titude turned around so much that her
parents contacted us and asked for even
more tutoring.’’

The girl, who had been a D student,
finished the year with a B average, accor-
ding to Ferguson who adds: ‘‘She was a
completely changed person.’’

Local school officials agree with
Ferguson’s positive assessment of the law
school program. “‘It has been very effec-
tive,’’ says Joyce Shull, Lylburn Down-
ing’s guidance counselor. ‘*Not only does
it improve academic performance, but it
also provides our students with a very
positive role model. Our students have
gained organizational skills and have im-
proved their study habits as well as their
grades.

“We couldn’t operate without it.”’

While the tutored students obviously
benefit from the program, their tutors
gain something, too. ‘‘The law students
like to share the kind of knowledge they
have,’’ Ferguson explains. ‘‘These kids
just need some incentive, and it makes the
law students feel good to think they have
rubbed off on an eighth-grader who had
thrown his or her books to the side.’’

As more tutors sign up to participate
in the program, Ferguson hopes to
broaden its outreach to other schools in
the area.

**] haven’t seen one law student who
was dissatisfied with the experience,’’
claims Ferguson. ‘‘It’s just really nice to
see that you’ve helped somebody.”’

  

 

dock at Lexington’s Lylburn Downing Middle School.

 

W&L

29

 

 

 

Photograph by Mathew Horridge, ’88

Trading Places

hen 18-year-old Carol Howson arrived on the

Washington and Lee campus to begin her college
career in mid-September, little did she know that less than
two months later she’d have her run of the place—literally.

But there she was on Nov. 2, seated comfortably behind
the president’s desk in Washington Hall and confronting
the issues facing the University this day.

Meanwhile, the normal occupant of that chair, Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, was finding out what life is like for
a Washington and Lee freshman. Armed with Howson’s
bag of textbooks and her schedule of classes, Wilson spent
his day in the classroom, on the racquetball court, in the
dining hall, and wherever else a freshman might be found
on a typical Monday.

 

President Howson and executive assistant Frank Parsons

The scene was something straight out of the Dan
Akroyd-Eddie Murphy’s Trading Places, only this role
reversal was called ‘‘King of the Hill’? and the big winner
was Lexington’s United Way campaign.

The University’s chapter of Sigma Nu fraternity came
up with the unusual fund-raiser. More than 225
undergraduates paid $2 each for a chance to trade places
with President Wilson.

The contest netted $470 for the local United Way. It
also provided both Howson and Wilson with valuable in-
sight into how the other half lives.

xk *&

Little did Howson know what she was getting into when
she bought her ticket in the Sigma Nu contest. ‘‘It was,”’’
she said, ‘‘the very first ticket sold. I assumed the odds
were not in my favor.’’

But the first ticket sold was the one ticket selected when
President Wilson drew for his single-day successor during
halftime of the W&L-Bridgewater football game.

Surprised as she was to be selected in the first place,
Howson was even more taken aback by what awaited her
when she met President Wilson at 8 a.m. in front of
Washington Hall to deliver her books and schedule.

In addition to a complete series of meetings with deans
and department heads, Howson was the center of con-
siderable media scrutiny on her first—and, to this point,
only—day as W&L’s president. She handled the TV
cameras with aplomb, listening to reports on everything

from the campus parking problems to the University’s drug
policy.

After a morning filled with appointments, Howson took
Wilson’s place at the president’s regular Monday lunch
with the administration. There, she provided her perspec-
tive on the Parents’ Weekend that had just passed, sharing
concerns and offering suggestions for improving the current
program. Then she sat back and listened to the other
reports, occasionally interrupting (as presidents are wont to
do) with a pertinent comment.

When lunch was finished, it was back to the office for
more meetings and for perhaps the biggest challenge of her
day on the job. As part of the role switch, President
Wilson had made $1,000 available to President Howson
from his discretionary fund and had invited academic
department heads to submit proposals for the special fund-
ing. It was real money. The 20 proposals were real pro-
posals. And President Howson soon discovered that
decision-making can be a real headache.

Once she had reviewed all of the proposals, she made
her decision, which proved to be an astute one. She divided
the money, awarding the mathematics department with
$388.90 for the purchase of videotapes and giving the
English department $611.10 to expand the program of the
writing center.

xk *

Meanwhile, freshman Wilson, attired in a T-shirt and
jeans, began his day by working on his adjectives—his
French adjectives. His 8 a.m. class was French, where he
conducted his blackboard work admirably.

Next came calculus. Happily for Wilson, the calculus
quiz had been given Friday, so he got the benefit of receiv-
ing the test paper with the score of 81 and the comment
**That’s your best so far.’’ It wasn’t Wilson’s best, of
course; it was Howson’s.

From there, he took to the racquetball court, where he
scored one victory but was down 3-2 in the second game
when the class ended.

   

oan

Freshman Wilson in racquetball class

Then it was on to the dining hall for lunch and the
final class of the day in psychology.

By 4:30 p.m., freshman Wilson had donned his coat
and tie and resumed his presidency by chairing the monthly
meeting of the University’s faculty. And President Howson
had concluded a long day of deliberations and returned to
the life of a W&L freshman.

Photograph by Mathew Horridge, ’88

 

30

W&L

 

 

 

 

The Bookshelf

 

New Works By Washington and Lee Alumni, Faculty

 

American Orators Before 1900:
Critical Studies and Sources
By Halford R. Ryan

Professor of Public Speaking
(Greenwood Press)

Edited by Halford R. Ryan, professor of
public speaking at Washington and Lee, and
Bernard K. Duffy of Clemson University,
this work is a companion volume to
American Orators of the Twentieth Century:
Critical Studies and Sources, which was
published earlier this year by Greenwood.

According to Ryan, the two volumes
together ‘‘constitute the most comprehensive
study of American oratory in 30 years.’’

The book contains 58 essays on American
orators. Congressional and _ presidential
speakers, Southern ‘‘fire-eaters,’’ suffragists,
abolitionists, Black and American Indian
orators, as well as pulpiteers are featured in
the volume. Each essay consists of a
historical and critical analysis of the role
rhetoric played in each orator’s career, lists
critical studies and bibliographical materials,
and concludes with a chronology of major
speeches and addresses.

Ryan contributed an essay on Henry
Ward Beecher, the famous 19th-century
orator and preacher. His research on the
Beecher family papers at Yale University was
made possible by a Glenn Grant from
Washington and Lee.

The Two Germanies since 1945
By Henry Ashby Turner Jr., ’54
(Yale University Press)

In this latest book by Henry Ashby
Turner Jr., professor of history at Yale
University and Master of Davenport College,
the author provides the first comprehensive
overview of East and West Germany in the
last four decades, giving equal attention to
developments in both states.

Turner’s is the first historical study of the
two Germanies that covers the period from
1945 to the present.

The author argues convincingly that the
fates of East and West Germany have been
inextricably entangled and that their
reciprocal interaction has been an essential
element of their evolution.

 

Turner

From a description of Germany after the
war, Turner takes the reader from the birth
of the two new states to the current situa-
tion in the two Germanies. He concludes
with an outline of the common problems fac-
ing the two Germanies in an era of mutual
accommodation, asserting that these states
must successfully manage their relations with
each other or all humanity will suffer the
consequences.

Turner is the author of several other ma-
jor works on German history, including
Hitler—Memoirs of a Confidant and Ger-
man Big Business and the Rise of Hitler.

Virginia’s Northen Neck:
a pictorial history

By John C. Wilson, ’74
(The Donning Company)

In this attractively illustrated volume,
John C. Wilson traces the history of
Virginia’s Northern Neck peninsula from the
arrival of Capt. John Smith in 1607 until the
present.

Using old photographs, maps, and
documents culled from newspaper files,
museum archives, and private individuals,
Wilson documents the history of the region,
from the earliest English settlements through
the Colonial and Revolutionary periods, the
Civil War, and the technological ad-
vancements of the 20th century.

The author devotes special attention to
various prominent figures of the Northern
Neck, including Jessie Ball duPont and
Robert E. Lee, both natives of the region.

Wilson moved to the Northern Neck at
the age of 15. He has worked for newspapers
in Northumberland and Kilmarnock, Va.,
where he now lives with his wife and two
children.

The Bonfire of the Vanities
By Tom Wolfe, ’51
(Farrar Straus Giroux)

Tom Wolfe’s first novel is about New
York City, his home for the past 25 years.

Characterized in a recent New York
Times article as ‘‘the prototypical New Jour-
nalist,’’ Wolfe earned the reputation as one
of the nation’s premier writers of nonfiction
with such books as The Right Stuff and
Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak
Catchers.

He began to write Bonfire of the Vanities
in 1981 and, after struggling for many
months, approached Rolling Stone magazine
about publishing the novel in a serialized for-
mat in the tradition of Charles Dickens,
among others.

As Wolfe told The New York Times, ‘‘I
knew from my newspaper days that I could
make a deadline. Even if it wasn’t very good,
I could make a deadline.’’

But the 659-page novel has been
drastically rewritten from the version that ap-
peared in Rolling Stone. Among other things
the book’s main character is a bond salesman
as opposed to the serialized version in which
it was a writer who became entangled in New
York City’s criminal justice system.

Yet, as Wolfe has said, the main
character of the novel, in the book version
as in the magazine serial, is New York City
‘‘and the way the city dominates its players
and drives them to do reckless things.”’’

W&L 31

Alumni News

 

Faculty, Administrators Hit the Alumni Chapter Road

 

embers of Washington and Lee’s
faculty and administration were
on the road this fall visiting
alumni chapters throughout the Southeast.

John W. Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs and dean of the College,
spoke to the Appalachian chapter during a
luncheon at Abingdon’s Martha Washington
Inn in September. Following the luncheon,
members of the chapter watched the
Generals take on Emory and Henry in the
opening game of the football season.

Meanwhile, Jefferson Davis Futch III,
professor of history, traveled South to
discuss his specialty, European history, with
members of the Atlanta chapter at a lun-
cheon meeting, and Kenneth P. Ruscio, ’76,
assistant dean of students for freshmen and
residence life, met with alumni from the
Richmond chapter.

In late October James D. Farrar Jr., ’74,
attended a reception celebrating the forma-
tion of the newest alumni chapter—the Con-
necticut River Valley chapter. The new
chapter is based in Hartford but includes
alumni from Springfield to New Haven.

Other chapter news

Members of the Peninsula and Tidewater
chapters attended an October reception held
in conjunction with the fall meeting of the
Board of Trustees, which was convened in
Williamsburg. The reception was held in the
Wallace Gallery.

Just prior to the opening of the fall term,
the Lynchburg chapter welcomed incoming
freshmen from the area at a barbecue at the
summer cottage of Beth and Stuart Fauber,
°70.

While Lynchburg area alumni were
greeting new students, their counterparts
with the Washington, D.C., chapter were
busy helping recruit prospective applicants
at Virginia College Night. The chapter had
representatives at the event, which was held
in Alexandria and included 11 other Virginia
institutions.

Members of the Charlotte chapter teed
up in October for the 1987 W&L Fall Golf
Classic. An awards banquet followed the
tournament, which was held at the
Pawtuckett Golf Club.

32. W&L

 

RICHMOND-— In attendance at a luncheon meeting of the Richmond chapter were (from left)
George L. Booth, ’80; Ken Ruscio, ’76, assistant dean of students; John F. Watlington, ’72,
chapter president; Van H. Pate, ’71; and Channing J. Martin, ’75.

NEW YORK—Attending the chapter’s reception at the Manhattan Brewing Co. were (from left)

 

 

 

Ann and Page Warren, daughters of Alumni Board member Dick Warren, ’57 (center), Virginia

Lyon, and Matt Griffith, °40.

The Manhattan Brewing Company was
the scene of an autumn social sponsored by
the New York chapter.

New chapter presidents

The following chapters have named new
presidents in recent months:

Appalachian—Michael E. Riley, ’72;

Chicago—Richard C. Everett Jr., ’77;

Hilton Head—Theodore M. Plowden,
°37;

New York—M. Graham Coleman II,
79;

Philadelphia— David L. Church, ’80;

Westchester/Fairfield—Steven G.
Logan, ’85;

Western North Carolina—Marion E.
(Gene) Wood III, 784.

 

 

 

hat a thrill it is to report to you about one of the most

exciting and successful events the Alumni Association
has ever staged. During Homecoming weekend, more than 300
alumni returned to campus to participate in the Alumni Frater-
nity Council’s House Corporation Conference, the Five-Star
Generals’ Reunion, the Alumni Board of Directors’ meeting,
and, our special event, a meeting of Washington and Lee chapter
presidents from across the country.

Forty-eight alumni chapters from Virginia to California,
from New England to Florida were represented. A terrific pro-
gram was provided by Alumni Board member John Klinedinst
and his committee. But the greatest accomplishment was merely
getting this outstanding group of chapter leaders and volunteers
on campus. The opportunity to walk down the Colonnade and
across the footbridge was certainly invigorating for us all.
Washington and Lee is an ‘‘alumni-driven’’ school and is the
beneficiary of 16,000-plus graduates who unselfishly return their
fair share to their University.

To recognize such outstanding contributions, a new Chapter
Recognition Program has been established. Before the end of
this year, the most outstanding chapters will be selected (one
large chapter, one small chapter). W&L President John D.

 

 

Alumni President’s Report

By John Folsom, ’73

Wilson will present the awards at
meetings in the cities, and special
recognition will be made on cam-
pus at the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association in May.
Details on the selection criteria are
being provided to chapter leaders
so that those who aspire for this
most meaningful recognition will
know the rules of the game!

Other current activities of the
Alumni Association include putting
the final touches on an Athletic
Hall of Fame that will give deserv-
ed recognition to Washington and Lee’s most outstanding
athletes and the further development of the Career Assistance
Program. Your support of these activities is the catalyst that
will insure their success.

The Alumni Board is a working group of committed
volunteers who are devoted to Washington and Lee. Please give
us the benefit of your ideas and thoughts about how we can
better serve you and our University.

Folsom

 

     

PITTSBURGH—From left, Linda Cleary; Mike Cleary, ’78; John
Stafford, ’78; and Melissa Lloyd Stafford.

 

TIDEWATER/PENINSULA—From left, Rector James M.
Ballengee, *48L, with Chuck Lollar, ’77L, Tidewater chapter presi-
dent, and John Folsom, ’73, Alumni Association president.

 

APPALACHIAN—From left, Marianne and Ellis Crosby, ’54, of

CONNECTICUT RIVER VALLEY—At the chapter’s first meeting
were (from left) Art Fern, 55; Vivian Fern; and Jerry Fisher, ’56.

 

Jacksonville, Fla., and Jim Elliott, ’67L, chapter president, at a recep-

tion prior to the W&L-Emory & Henry football game.

W&L

33

 

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

lh

s RP ae * Se

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$175.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

NOTE: As of July 1, 1987, the manufacturer is six months behind filling orders.

 

 

34

W&L

1926

Herndon S. Peirce retired in July after surveying
in the Danville, Va., area for 53 years.

1933

William H. H. Wertz was inducted into the Ohio
Conservation Hall of Fame during the Ohio State
Fair in August. Wertz is a 45-year member of the
Izaak Walton League and served as national presi-
dent in 1953. He is also a member of the Recrea-
tion and Resources Commission of the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources and a member
of the Governor’s Commission on Ohioans Out-
doors. He lives in Wooster, Ohio.

1937

John M. Jones III, publisher of The Greeneville
Sun, told students attending the opening convoca-
tion of Tennessee Wesleyan College that they have
“‘no more important challenge than seeing that the
freedoms you are inheriting are never taken from
you—or from other Americans, including those
with whom you disagree.’’ Jones was presented
an honorary degree of doctor of humane letters
at the convocation.

1940

Ross V. Hersey of Waynesboro, Va., was featured
in a recent Richmond Times-Dispatch article on
the growing business of professional speaking.
Hersey began speaking professionally 18 years ago
before Waynesboro audiences. Following his
retirement in 1974 after 25 years in the public rela-
tions department at duPont, he entered the speak-
ing business full time. Now he gives speeches
throughout the country, receiving $1,500 for each
effort. Hersey offers two standard speeches, ‘‘The
Magic Elixir—Enthusiasm’’ and ‘‘King of the
Shaggy Dog Story,’’ which combine humor with
a serious message.

1947

William M. Wilcox Jr. became executive vice presi-
dent for The Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. in
August. He was also named to the company’s
management committee and will be responsible for
all replacement market sales. He and his wife live
in North Canton, Ohio.

1949

Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr., associate deputy chief
medical director of the Veterans Administration,
has joined Abt Associates Inc. as director of health
policy studies. He will co-
chair the firm’s AIDS Task
Force, which assists private
and government clients with
policy development and con-
ducts research on issues such
as AIDS in prisons, AIDS in
the workplace, and the ef-
, fects of AIDS on the
ay economy in the U.S. and
| abroad.

1950

Frank Love Jr. was recently elected chairman of
the litigation section at the Atlanta law firm of
Powell, Goldstein, Frazer & Murphy.

 

 

 

 

1951

Frank Love Jr. (See 1950).

Pole

James C. Reed Jr. is practicing law in Atlanta and
Charleston, W.Va., where he lives. He is president
of Telephone Express Inc., a Georgia corporation,
secretary and general counsel of Potomac Medical
Inc., and executive vice president and secretary of
Potomac & Western Co.

S. Maynard Turk, vice president and general
counsel of Hercules Inc. in Wilmington, Del., is
now a director of the chemical and aerospace

company.
1954

Richard T. Harbison became pastor and head of
staff at First Presbyterian Church in Lynchburg,
Va., in September. He and his wife, Cornelia, had
been at First Presbyterian Church of Pensacola,

Fla., for 15 years.
1956

William Henry Houston III was nominated for the
rank of ambassador since becoming a United
States Negotiator on Textile Matters in the Office
of the United States Trade Representative early this
year. President Ronald Reagan announced the
nomination on Aug. 6.

John A. McQuiggan is the producer of a new off-
Broadway musical, Birds of Paradise, which open-
ed Oct. 27 at the Promenade Theatre in New York

City.
1958

James J. (Jay) Crawford Jr., an exploration
manager with Sun Orient Exploration Co., has
been posted in Zhanjiang, Guangdong Province,
People’s Republic of China, since October 1986.

Philip H. Weeks is vice president and manager of
insurance sales for Dean Witter Reynolds Finan-
cial Services Group in New York City.

1960

Michael L. Blane, senior counsel to Merrill Lynch
Europe Ltd., was recently elected to the Board of
the London Stock Exchange. He is participating
in the development of a new financial services

regulatory scheme in the United Kingdom, which
is the result of the emerging globalization of capital
markets.

Jack C. Groner was awarded the ChFC designa-
tion at the annual conferment exercises of the
American College in Washington, D.C., on Oct.
7, 1987. He is corporate vice president and general
counsel of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Loui-
siana. He and his wife, Millie, celebrated their 25th
wedding anniversary in April by spending two
weeks in Austria and England. He ran into
classmate Sam D. Knowlton II at the airport in
London. Groner lives in Baton Rouge, La.

1964

Dr. Bruce R. MacDonald, a urologist from
Cooperstown, N.Y., attended a two-week course
in Stuttgart in May and is now certified to treat
patients for extra corporeal shockwave lithotrip-
sy. He is president of AHMMPRO, an upstate
New York medical peer review organization, and
is vice president of Bene Systems Inc., a computer
services company specializing in management and
data management systems for AHMMPRO. His
wife, Estelle, does basic research in immunology,
and their 7-year-old, Alexis, is in second grade.
The family farm yielded 3,000 bales of hay this
summer.

 

1965

James W. Jennings Jr., an attorney at Woods,
Rogers & Hazlegrove in Roanoke, has been
named president-elect of the
Virginia Association of
Defense Attorneys. He is
past treasurer of the
450-member group, which is
committed to elevating trial
practice standards, support-
ing and improving the
courts’ adversary system,
and improving justice ad-
ministration in the trial and
appellate courts.

Bernd Schulz has been working as a management
adviser for the National Family Planning Authori-
ty in Dhaka, Bangladesh, since September 1986.
He lives there with his wife and two children.

1966

Harry E. Brookby has been elected vice president
of exploration for Huffco Petroleum Corp. in
Houston. He and his wife and three children live
in Kingwood.

George Todd Crowell returned to campus last
spring to present a lecture, ‘‘Achieving Com-
petitiveness: Lessons From Japan,”’ to a group of
economics students. The talk focused on the dif-
ficulties the United States faces with its timber
trade with Japan. Crowell is on the editorial staff
of Asiaweek magazine and lives in Hong Kong.

M. Douglas Mann is with Crowe & Mann, an
Atlanta law firm specializing in creditors’ rights
and bankruptcy. He lives in Roswell, Ga., with
his wife, Carolynn, a watercolor artist, and their
two daughters, 11-year-old Sara and 6-year-old

Gena.
1967

Howard J. Beck Jr. and Maryellen F. Goodlatte,
°78, were speakers at the Virginia Credit Union
League’s Annual Technical Conference in
Williamsburg in October. Beck spoke about
bankruptcy, while Goodlatte discussed collection
techniques. Both are associated with the Roanoke
law firm of Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann & Darby.

Hubert H. Young Jr., a Suffolk, Va., attorney,
real estate developer, and broadcasting executive,

 

is listed in this year’s edition of the Marquis Who’s
Who in American Law. This is the third time
Young has been recognized for his ac-
complishments. He is general counselor and direc-
tor for Young Properties Development Corp.,
president of the Suffolk Broadcasting Corp., vice
chairman of the Suffolk Coalition for Senior
Citizen Housing, and a member of the Suffolk
Substance and Abuse and Youth Council.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Howard, a
daughter, Anne Booth, on June 10, 1987. The
family lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

Robert S. Keefe is manager of proposal strategy
in the national marketing department of Deloitte,
Haskins & Sells in New York City.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Wade Sample, a son,
Wilton Wade III, on April 21, 1987. The family
lives in Shreveport, La.

William T. Fleming Jr., a foreign service officer
who specializes in economic affairs, is spending
a year at the Foreign Service Institute in
Washington to study Arabic languages. He had
spent two years on a post in Beijing. He and his
wife have two children and live in Chevy Chase,
Md.

M. Douglas Mann (See 1966).

Glenn R. Moore is a resident partner in the Rich-
mond law office of Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg,
Cox & Allen. Before joining the firm, he had been
an assistant attorney general for the state of
Virginia.

Hubert H. Young Jr. (See 1967).

1970

Bruce R. MacQueen is moving with his family to
Paris, where he has been appointed the general
manager of Manufacturers Hanover Bank/France,
as well as the bank’s country manager for France.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven L. Hawley, a
daughter, Lauren Elizabeth, on May 18, 1987, in
Doncaster, England. She joined a sister and a
brother. Hawley has been in Chad since March
1986 as project manager for a CARE rural water
supply program.

W&L 35

 

William E. Brumback, a propagator at the New
England Wild Flower Society’s Garden in the
Woods in Framingham, Mass., participated in a
Symposium sponsored by the Perennial Plant
Association at Baltimore’s Omni Hotel in August.
Brumback tried to encourage more nursery
operators to produce native plants by propagative
means (as opposed to digging them from the wild).
He believes that, if the native plants were mass pro-
duced, their survival in home gardens would
become more likely and their threat of extinction
would be reduced since illegal collectors could find
the plants they seek in nurseries rather than in the

wild.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Blake, a son,
Joseph Brian, on Aug. 2, 1987. The family lives
in Greenville, S.C.

James W. Jennings Jr. (See 1965).

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter D. Grover, a second
son, Edward Douglass, on June 26, 1987. The
family lives in Fredericksburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John C. Updike Jr., a
daughter, Letta Katherine, on July 22, 1987. Her
older sisters and brother are 9-year-old Abigail
Anne, 7-year-old John Conner III, and 6-year-old
Maria McKay. Updike is vice president of Alcoma
Packing Co. Inc. in Lake Wales, Fla.

Thomas B. Shuttleworth II (See Robert G.

Morecock, ’75).

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lewis F. Powell III, a
daughter, Emily Maynard, on July 25, 1987. The
family lives in Richmond.

Glenn R. Moore (See 1969).

William H. Runge III is chief financial officer for
A-O Electronics Inc. in Tucker, Ga. He lives in
Marietta with his wife and two daughters.

97D

Grady C. Frank Jr. works in the Alexandria, Va.,
law office of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske, Beckhorn &
Hanes. The firm, which is the result of a June 1987
merger of the firms of Thomas & Fiske and of
Hazel, Beckhorn & Hanes, has offices in Rich-
mond, Alexandria, Washington, D.C., Leesburg,
Va., and Tysons Corner, Va.

Robert G. Morecock works in the litigation depart-
ment at the law firm of Shuttleworth, Ruloff,
Giordano & Kahle in Virginia Beach. This sum-
mer, he and Thomas B. Shuttleworth II, ’73, who
formed the firm in April 1987, were defense
lawyers in what the Daily Press/The Times-Herald
called ‘‘the biggest criminal trial of their careers.”’
The two defended Karen Diehl on charges that she
abducted, abused, and murdered one of her
adopted children.

Jeffrey L. Willis has moved from Phoenix, Ariz.,
to practice at the Tucson office of the law firm
of Streich, Lang, Weeks & Cardon.

1976
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Langhorne Craighill
Jr., a son, William Peyton, on Sept. 3, 1987.
William joined a 3-year-old brother, Christopher
Langhorne. The family lives in Williamsburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Roy M. Jones, a son,
Carter Lamar, on July 30, 1987. Carter joined a
4-year-old brother, Brad. The family lives in Atlan-
ta, where Jones is an attorney with Cushing &
Morris, Attorneys at Law.

36 —-W&L

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Julian J. Nexsen Jr., a son,
Julian Jacobs III, on Sept. 14, 1987. He joined
a sister, Kincaid. The family lives in Greenwood,
SA

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William H. Ogburn Jr.,
ason, William Hubert III, on July 29, 1987. Hugh
joined a 2-year-old sister, Charlotte. Ogburn is a
vice president of corporate finance with Interstate
Securities in Charlotte.

P. Shepherd Rouse III has moved with his wife,
Jane, and daughter, Elizabeth, from Napa Valley,
Calif., to Charlottesville, where he is vintner of
Montdomaine Wineries. He holds a master of
science degree in viticulture and enology from the
University of California at Davis.

1977

MARRIAGE: Theodore J. (Tad) Van Leer and
Caroline Blanken on Aug. 28, 1987. They live in
Glen Ridge, N.J. Both have alumni fathers. He
is the son of M. Theodore Van Leer, ’51, of Glen
Ridge, N.J., and she is the daughter of Edward
J. Blanken, ’45, of Chatham, N.J. The couple met
at a reception hosted by the Northern New Jersey
alumni chapter last April for the W&L Glee Club
and University Chorus.

Joseph T. McMahon Jr. is a partner and vice presi-
dent of McLean Group Inc. and is officer-in-
charge of the company’s New York City consulting
office. He lives in Arlington, Va.

1978
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gerald L. Maatman Jr.,
a daughter, Emily Ann, on June 12, 1987, in
Evanston, Ill. Emily is a special child, and as a
result the Maatmans have become members of the
National Association for Down’s Syndrome. In
addition, Maatman qualified for and competed in
the 1987 United States Amateur Golf Champion-

ship in Jupiter Hills, Fla. He was also selected to
the 1987 Illinois Radix Cup Team, which is in-
dicative of being rated among the best 10 golfers
in the state.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William G. Taylor, a
daughter, Austin Turner, on June 5, 1987, in
Atlanta. Taylor is a vice president with First Union
National Bank of Georgia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Brice B. Williams, a son,
James McNall, on Aug. 12, 1987, in Atlanta.

Jean Louise Byassee became a partner in the
Nashville, Tenn., law firm of Frey & Barnes on
Nov. 1, 1987. She practices general commercial
and healthcare law.

Maryellen F. Goodlatte (See Howard J. Beck Jr.,
67).

G. Carter Greer is practicing law with the Rocky
Mount, Va., firm of Greer, Greer & Furrow. He
works primarily in the areas of personal injury and
criminal defense. He just finished a term as presi-
dent of the Franklin County Bar Association.

Robert G. Morecock (See 1975).

1979
Robert L. (Buckwheat) Clement of Kiawah Island,
S.C., is vice president of the commercial division
of The Max L. Hill Co. Inc., a full-service real
estate brokerage company in Charleston. He
specializes in the sale and development of ‘‘raw
land’’ and income-producing properties.

1980
MARRIAGE: John Reif Stagmaier and Nancy
Sander Avera, on Sept. 19, 1987, in Chattanooga,
Tenn. Stagmaier works with Rock-Tenn Co. in
Chattanooga and lives on Signal Mountain.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Murray Garrott McClin-
tock, a son, Murray Garrott Jr., on Sept. 15, 1987.

 

Johnny E. Morrison, ’74, ’77L, the
commonwealth’s attorney for Ports-
mouth, Va., was chosen by the faculty of
Washington and Lee’s School of Law to
receive honorary membership in Order of
the Coif.

Morrison was in-
ducted into the law
school honor society
at the annual meeting
of the Law Council,
the governing board ©
of the Law School |
Association, on Oct. 9
during W&L’s annual |
Homecoming week-
end activities.

Order of the Coif is a national law
school honor society founded to en-
courage legal scholarship and to advance
the ethical standards of the legal profes-
sion. Each year, the W&L law faculty
chooses an alumnus who has had a par-
ticularly distinguished career in the legal
profession for honorary membership.

 

 

“, Morrison honored by law school

**We on the law faculty are extreme-
ly proud of Johnny E. Morrison. Not on-
ly has he successfully run for office, but
he carries out his duties in that office
superbly,’’ said Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,
dean of the School of Law.

Morrison received his B.A. and J.D.
degrees from Washington and Lee in 1974
and 1977, respectively. He was elected
commonwealth’s attorney for Ports-
mouth in 1982. He had previously been
assistant commonwealth’s attorney for a
year in Norfolk and for three years in
Portsmouth.

Morrison was the principal speaker in
Lexington last January at a service
organized by the University’s Minority
Student Association in observance of
Martin Luther King Day. That same day,
Norfolk’s Old Dominion University had
presented him with its third annual Mar-
tin Luther King Jr. Memorial Award for
“this leadership in social justice.’’ He also
won the Tidewater Legal Aid Society
Achievement Award this year.

 

 

 

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William L. (Butch) Robert-
son Jr., twin sons, William Lee III and Hunter
Wells, on Aug. 5, 1987. One of the proud grand-
fathers is also a 1955 graduate of W&L, William
H. Forrest Jr. Robertson is manager of the con-
sulting division of Arthur Andersen and Co. in
Charlotte.

L. Palmore Clarke is on a two-year around-the-
world backpacking trip. He has spent six months
in Africa, where he climbed to the summit of
Mount Meru and Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania
and Mount Kenya in Kenya.

Douglas A. Clegg recently sold his first novel to
Simon & Schuster’s paperback division of Pocket
Books. The book, which is scheduled for printing
in the summer of 1988 under the title The Goat
Dance, is ‘‘a good, trashy horror novel,’’ accord-
ing to its author, who hopes ‘‘a lot of W&L alumni
will read and enjoy it.’’ Clegg lives in Southern
California and is finishing his second novel. He
had previously worked in the news department at
KCBS-TV in Los Angeles after moving from
Washington, D.C., where he edited and wrote for
a magazine.

Dr. Carl E. Lowder Jr. is a fourth-year resident
in neurosurgery at Louisiana State University
Medical Center in New Orleans.

Dr. Lucien T. Megna is doing his residency at St.
Francis Medical Center in Trenton, N.J., where
he specializes in neurosurgery. In June, he
graduated from St. George’s University School of
Medicine in Grenada at a ceremony at the United
Nations in New York.

1981]

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James K. Falk, a son,

George Edward Simmons, on Aug. 19, 1987. The:

family lives in Louisville, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. Lee Larimore, a
daughter, Lauren Elizabeth, on Sept. 2, 1987. The
family lives in Fort Worth, Texas.

R. Christopher Gammon is one of two officers in
First Wachovia Corp.’s London office, where he
does no actual banking but instead serves as a
liaison for British companies that do business in
the United States.

1982

Michael Judge was one of two actors cast in Amlin
Gray’s How I Got That Story, performed at the
Source Theatre in Washington, D.C., in
September and October. The Washington Post
called the show ‘‘a different kind of Vietnam story,
one that finds the black comedy in the heart of
darkness.’’ Judge’s role required him to create
more than 20 characters, including ‘‘a backslap-
ping corporate executive, a severe, intellectual
guerrilla, a barking sergeant, a nun in an or-
phanage, and a thrill-crazed photographer who
documents his own battlefield dismemberments.’’

1983

Frank G. English IV received his master of
business administration degree from the Fuqua
School of Business at Duke University in May. He
entered the corporate and institutional banking
training program at Continental Illinois National
Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago, and in October
he began work at the bank’s Atlanta regional
office.

Keith E. Goretzka has been promoted in the U:S.
Army to the rank of captain. He is an artillery of-
ficer with the Troop Command at Fort Jackson,
S.C.

 

 

 

Winner’s
Circle
Reunion

Two Washington and Lee
alumni had an unusual reunion this
summer when they met in the win-
ner’s circle at Arlington Park
Racetrack outside Chicago. Don
Levinson, ’34, is the owner of a
major stakes horse, Lost Code.
When Lost Code won the Arl-
ington Classic on July 11, Levin-
son was presented his trophy by
fellow W&L alumnus R. L.
Duchossois, ’44, who is the owner
of Arlington Park. In the photo at
left, Duchossois (right) and Levin-
son (left) flank the winning jockey,
Gene St. John, at the presentation
ceremony.

 

 

1984
MARRIAGE: James W. Davis and Amanda
Darlene Mann on Aug. 8, 1987, in Shreveport, La.
Members of the wedding party included classmates
David K. Salsbury and Warren B. Watkins. Davis
is a second-year law student at Louisiana State
University in Baton Rouge.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Michael Pace Jr., a
daughter, Maggi, on July 24, 1987, in Roanoke.
Pace is with the law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes
& Moore.

James K. Falk (See 1981).

Glenn L. Kirschner was graduated cum laude from
New England School of Law at commencement
exercises last spring and has taken the New Jersey
bar examination.

Ist Lt. G. L. Buist Rivers III left the military and
is now loss control director for the Palmetto Ship-
ping and Stevedoring Co. Inc. in Charleston, S.C.

Robert Smithwick III has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president of Morgan Keegan & Co. Inc.,
a regional investment brokerage firm based in
Memphis.

1985

John A. DiDuro is the co-author of the technical
paper, ‘‘Expert System and Interactive Videodisc:
A Powerful Combination,’’ published in the pro-
ceedings for the Third Conference on Applications
of Artificial Intelligence and CD-ROM in Educa-
tion and Training, Learning Technology Institute,
October 1987. DiDuro works as a logistic engineer
with Newport News Shipbuilding in Newport
News, Va., where he lives with his wife, Renee,
and dog, Winnie.

1st Lt. Paul A. Driscoll has been decorated with
the Army Achievement Medal at Fort Campbell,
Ky. He is a rifle platoon leader with the 187th
Infantry.

John W. Herndon III teaches Spanish and earth
science at Christ School in Asheville, N.C. He is
assistant athletic director and assists the coaching
of varsity basketball, baseball, and soccer. He con-
tinues to play the guitar ‘‘for a few pennies here
and there.”’

Jonathan C. Knaus was recently certified as a
public accountant in Virginia and has accepted a
position as an accounting computer specialist with
Marriott Corp. in Bethesda, Md. He lives in
McLean, Va.

Christopher H. Williams is an associate with the
Charlotte-based investment banking firm of
Bowles, Hollowell, Conner & Co., which
specializes in assisting medium-sized companies
with mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, valua-
tions, and private placements of debt and equity
securities. Williams earned a degree from Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administration last

spring.
1986

MARRIAGE: Bradley W. Beutel and Pam Ben-
nett on July 25, 1987, in Dallas. Classmates in the
wedding party included Trey Cashion III, Jaimie
Hayne, and Jack Ruffin. Jeff Boswell, ’85, was
also in the party. Beutel works for Reunion Bank
in Dallas.

Joseph C. Campbell Jr. completed the six-week
course of the Officer Indoctrination School at the
Naval Education and Training Center in Newport,
R.I., this summer. He joined the Navy Reserves
in January 1987.

H. Martin Chapman is working as an account
representative with Richmond Newspapers Inc.

‘William E. Hutchinson is an accountant with

Deriuex, Baker, Thompson, & Whitt in Richmond.

David L. Lundy has completed a one-year
clerkship with U.S. District Judge Jackson L. Kiser
in Danville, Va., and is now an associate with

W&L 37

 

 

 

 

Alumni Lacrosse Team

 

The annual Alumni-Varsity lacrosse game was played during Homecoming
weekend. The Alumni team scored an 8-7 victory. The Alumni squad is shown above.
Reclining in front: Sandy Brown, ’85; First row (from left): Jeff Mason, ’85; Bob
Carpenter, ’83; Joe Seifert, ’83; Don Rigger, ’81; Caulley Deringer, ’86; John
DiDuro, ’85; and Billy Holmes, ’86; Second row (from left): John Doub, ’83; Geoff
Wood, ’83; Mike Lewers, ’83; Bill Rush, ’86; Bob Berlin, ’86; Richard (Taz)
Schoenberg, ’85; Steve McGrath, ’86; Bill Garrett, ’87; and Corky Parkinson, ’86;
Back row (from left): John Buttarazzi, ’83; Chris John, ’86; Keith Scott, ’86; Dave
Johnston, ’85; Joe Krastel, ’87; Pere Roberts, ’81; and T. J. Finnerty, ’87.

 

>.

 

Shearman & Sterling in New York City.

Daniel J. O’Connor III left Central Atlanta Prog-
ress in July to join the Southern Legislative Con-
ference, an organization for the state legislators
and staffs of 15 Southern states. He is writing
reports and analyses on next year’s Southern
presidential primary and is also working as a
volunteer, along with fellow alumnus Dave Cobb,
°87, on Pete du Pont’s presidential campaign ef-
fort in Georgia.

Derrick G. Pitard began a two-year program at
University College, Oxford University, this fall.
He is studying for a master’s degree in English.

1987

C. Willing Browne IV works for Columbia-
Embassy Television and was involved with two
shows this summer, ‘‘Facts of Life’? and ‘‘Who’s
the Boss.’’ He currently works on a new series,
‘*Women in Prison,’’ which premiered this fall on
the FOX network. Browne has also been elected
to the alumni governing board of Up With Peo-
ple. He lives in Malibu, Calif.

Christopher R. Carter is a Latin and world history
teacher at Christchurch School in Christchurch,
Va.

Cooper C. Crawford is a management associate
with South Carolina Savings Bank in Columbia,
S.C.

M. Christopher Talley is attending medical school
at the University of Virginia.

38 = =$W&L

 

In Memoriam

 

1915

Paul Campbell Thomas, the retired director of
Mullens Grocery Co. from Bluefield, W.Va., died
Jan. 4, 1987. During World War I, he served in
the 111th Field Artillery, 29th Division, and was
honorably discharged as a second lieutenant in
1918. He had served as grand commander of the
Knights Templar of West Virginia, as president of
the Bluefield Kiwanis Club, and as lieutenant
governor and district governor of the West Virginia
district of the Kiwanis Club. He was an elder of
the First Presbyterian Church in Bluefield and had
served as the superintendent of Sunday School for

many years.
1917

Dr. Archie Edward Cruthirds, a retired eye, ear,
nose, and throat specialist known internationally
for his articles on eye burns and eye injuries, died
in Phoenix, Ariz., Sept. 7, 1987. After attending
Washington and Lee, he earned a medical degree
from Tulane University and practiced in Phoenix
from 1925 until his retirement in 1979. A former
president of the International Association of
Secretaries of Ophthalmological and
Otolaryngological Societies, he was an honorary

member of the All-India Ophthalmological Socie-
ty. He was also a member of the American and
International Triological Society, American and
International College of Surgeons, Maricopa
County Medical Society, and the American
Medical Association. Dr. Cruthirds was a life
member of the Elks Club, Masons and Scottish
Rite, E] Zaribah Shrine, Phoenix Press Club, and
the Phoenix Country Club.

1923

William Yeaton Wagener of Arden, S.C., died

Jan. 17, 1987.
1924

William Samuel Gay, a retired professor of ac-
counting at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, died Ju-
ly 30, 1987. After attending Washington and Lee
for two years, he became assistant manager of
Cooper-Riddick Co., a building materials com-
pany. He then earned a bachelor’s and master’s
degree from VPI in 1928 and 1931. In 1937, he
became a certified public accountant. He was con-
nected with VPI until his retirement in 1969. Dur-
ing his lifetime, he was a member of the Virginia
State Board of Accountancy, the American In-
stitute of CPAs, and the American Accounting
Association. He was also a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Beta Alpha Psi, Sigma Mu Sigma,
Alpha Kappa Psi, and Alpha Phi Omega. While
a resident of Blacksburg, Gay was a deacon and
elder of the Presbyterian Church.

Raleigh McGhee Jenkins Jr., former owner and
president of Jenkins Manufacturing Co. of An-
niston, Ala., died Sept. 6, 1987. A native and
longtime resident of Birmingham, he moved to An-
niston in 1962 when the retail lumber company,
which his father founded in 1885, relocated. He
had been a member of the Traffic and Transpor-
tation Club of Birmingham, the City Salesman’s
Club, the Birmingham and the Anniston Coun-
try Clubs, and Grace Episcopal Church in An-
niston. Jenkins had served as a class agent for
Washington and Lee and was a Robert E. Lee

Associate.
1926

Ralph Davidson Morrison, a retired technician in
the Acetate Technical Service Department of du-
Pont Co., died Sept. 30, 1987. A native of Lex-
ington, Va., he became an officer and chemistry
teacher at New Mexico Military Institute in 1927.
In 1942, he spent one year as a chemist with Pacific
Mills in Lyman, S.C., and then spent the 1943-44
academic year as a chemistry instructor at
Washington and Lee. In 1944, he joined duPont
Co. and retired after 26 years. He was a member
of Kiwanis International and Covenant
Presbyterian Church.

1927

James Phelps White Jr., a longtime resident of
Roswell, N.M., died June 24, 1987. He had been
involved in livestock ranching and irrigation

farming.
1928

Dr. Lester Alexander Brown, an ear, nose, and
throat specialist from Atlanta, died Aug. 22, 1987.
After earning his bachelor’s degree from
Washington and Lee, he entered medical school
at Emory University, where he was graduated in
1932. In 1933, he became a resident doctor at
Grady Hospital in Atlanta. After spending the
1934-35 academic year taking courses at Harvard
Medical School, he spent two years as a resident
staff member at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear
Infirmary in Boston. He returned to Atlanta in
1937 and practiced privately since that year, with

 

 

the exception of a three-year tour with the U.S.
Army Medical Corps during World War II. He
had served as a director on the board of the na-
tional examination for qualification of the ear,
nose, and throat surgical specialty. He also was
a professor of otolaryngology at Emory Univer-
sity School of Medicine and a member of many
local and national medical societies.

1929

William Atcheson MacDonough, the retired chair-
man of the board of Benn & MacDonough Inc.
in Clemson, S.C., died Jan. 18, 1987. After at-
tending Washington and Lee for two years, he was
hired by Burr, Patterson & Auld Co. of Detroit.
He left the company in 1939 as vice president to
join Gray Bar Electric Co. of Detroit. In 1942, he
began a three-year stay with Jam Handy Organiza-
tion in Detroit and then became a sales manager
with General Mills Inc. in Minneapolis. From 1950
to 1953, he was director of merchandising for Ben-
dix Home Appliances in South Bend, Ind., and
was vice president of advertising for Crosley &
Bendix Division of Avco Manufacturing Co. from
1953 to 1955. After 10 years as vice president and
chief executive officer of Kudner Advertising
Agency in New York City, he became vice presi-
dent of Tatham-Laird & Kudner and then chair-
man of the board of Benn & MacDonough Inc.
in New York City. He was a past grand president
of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, a past president
of the United Way of Oconee County in South
Carolina, and a past director of the Adcraft Club
of Detroit.

Ralph Melville McLane, a retired circuit judge
from Pensacola, Fla., died August 31, 1987. After
graduating from Washington and Lee with a law
degree, he served as assistant county solicitor in
Escambia County, Fla., for two years. He then
practiced in Pensacola until 1949, when he became
assistant attorney general of Florida. From 1960
to 1979, he served as a judge of the First Judicial
Circuit. He was a past president of the Bar Socie-
ty of the First Judicial Circuit of Florida. During
World War II, he served in the U.S. Navy and at
the time of his death was a retired lieutenant com-
mander in the U.S. Naval Reserve. He was a
former Community Chest director, a former vice
president of the West Florida division of the
Children’s Home Society, a former member of the
District Welfare Board, and a former trustee of
Escambia General Hospital. He was an elder in
the Trinity Presbyterian Church and a past
moderator of Florida Presbytery.

1930

Daniel Allen Penick, a native of Lexington, Va.,
where he practiced law for more than 50 years,
died Sept. 25, 1987. After earning his law degree
from Washington and Lee, he worked as an in-
surance adjuster in North Carolina. He returned
to Lexington in 1934 to practice law and was ap-
pointed Rockbridge County trial justice and judge
of the juvenile and domestic relations court in
1942. After serving in the Pacific Theater as a
lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy during
World War II, he returned to his Lexington posts
and served until 1951. In: 1940, he became a
member of the Rockbridge National Bank and was
elected chairman of the board in 1966. Penick was
also president of Rockbridge Building and Loan
Association and was director of Rockbridge Motor
Co. Inc. He served as a deacon and trustee of the
Lexington Presbyterian Church and was a trustee
of Lexington Presbytery and of Shenandoah
Presbytery. He was director of the foundation that
operated the Laird Memorial Hospital in Mont-

gomery, W.Va., and was a former president of the
Rockbridge Chapter of the American Red Cross.

1931

Henry Johnson Patterson of Osceola, Ark., died
May 31, 1987. A commerce student at Washington
and Lee, he returned to his hometown in 1931 and
joined his father in a retail business. He managed
the store until his death. During World War II,
he served in the Army Air Corps. He was a
member of the American Episcopal Church of the
Nativity in Osceola.
1932

Leonard Wingate Johnson, a retired high school
principal of Painter, Va., died July 8, 1987. For
40 years he was an educator for the Accomack
County school system. Upon retirement he taught
a course on the history of Virginia’s Eastern Shore
at the Eastern Shore Community College in Melfa,
Va. While teaching the course, he wrote the book
Ebb and Flow, A History of the Virginia Tip of
the Delmarva Peninsula 1561-1892. He was a
member of the Democratic Committee of Ac-
comack County and had recently been elected
secretary of the Electoral Board for the county.

William Edward Malone, a retired contract ad-
ministrator for the Food and Drug Administra-
tion in Washington, died Jan. 1, 1987. After at-
tending the Washington and Lee School of Law
for two years and serving as president of his
second-year class, he continued his education at
Lynchburg College where he earned his A.B. in
1932. In 1940 he earned his LL.B. from Colum-
bus University. He was a member of the Elks Club,
the American Legion, and the Veterans of Foreign
Wars in Washington, D.C., and served as a resi-
dent associate for the Smithsonian Institution.

1933

Thomas Deale Blanchard, a retired treasurer of
Robbie’s Home Centers Inc. from Portsmouth,

Va., died June 13, 1987. A native of Surry Coun-
ty, he was the former president of Blanchard Inc.,
the coal, heating, oil, hardware, and building
material business that merged with Robertson
Hardware Co. Inc. in 1960 and was renamed Rob-
bie’s Home Centers in 1973. He was past presi-
dent of the Virginia Coal Merchants Association,
the Portsmouth Retail Merchants Association, the
Portsmouth Jaycees, and the Portsmouth Rotary
Club. He was a Rotary International Paul Harris
Fellow and had served 30 years on the local and
regional board of directors of the Bank of Virginia.
He had also served on the board of directors of
the Portsmouth Chamber of Commerce and the
Portsmouth Industrial Foundation. He was a
member of the administrative board of Centenary
United Methodist Church.

1935

Harry Estel Harman, president and chairman of
the board of Harman Ice and Cold Storage in
Johnson City, Tenn., died May 18, 1987. After
attending Washington and Lee, he assisted his
father as vice president of Harman Ice and Coal
Co. Inc. and as president of Harman Frozen Food
Co. Inc. During his lifetime, he served on the
board of directors for Memorial Hospital in
Johnson City, for Central Baptist Church, and for
the Kiwanis Club. He was also past president of
the Kiwanis Club and of the Tennessee Ice
Manufacturers. He was a volunteer for the United
Way and served on the Chamber of Commerce.

1936

Forrest Edward Huffman, a retired executive vice
president of New York Life Insurance Co., died
Aug. 16, 1987. He had been a member of the board
of directors of the New York City Board of Trade.
While living in Rye, N.Y., he served as a trustee
of Rye Presbyterian Church. After retiring in 1975,
he moved to Lexington, Va., where he served as
an elder of Lexington Presbyterian Church. He
was also director of the Lexington English-

 

W&L 39

 

Speaking Union and a sponsor of a number of

social and community services. During World War -

II, he served in the U.S. Army with the Old
Hickory 30th Infantry Division, 117th Regiment.

1938

William Saxby Tavel, who served with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for more than 30 years,
died Sept. 19, 1987, in Middlebury, Vt. After leav-
ing Washington and Lee, where he was a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and was valedictorian of his
class, he attended Harvard Law School. He began
his FBI career in Buffalo, N.Y., and at the out-
break of World War II he was sent to Brazil to
serve in the Special Overseas Intelligence Service
for four and a half years. Upon his return he was
assigned to the FBI’s New York office, where he
worked in the Internal Security Division. He was
then transferred to Washington, D.C. He retired
in 1972 as an assistant director in charge of files
and communications and moved to Naples, Fla.,
while maintaining a summer home in Salisbury,
Vt. He was a member of the Harvard Club of
Naples, the South Carolina chapter of the Socie-
ty of the Cincinnati, the FBI Agents Society, the
Naples Area Board of Realtors, and the Neshobe
Golf Club in Brandon, Vt.

n

1946

Frank Allen Berry Jr. died in Nashville, Tenn.,
on Aug. 8, 1987. After spending the 1942-43
academic year at Washington and Lee, he served
as an ensign for the U.S. Navy in the Pacific
Theater. He returned to Lexington in 1946 and
earned a bachelor’s and a law degree. He also
studied at the University of North Carolina and
at Vanderbilt University. He was an attorney with
the firm of Bass, Berry & Sims.

1950

Frank Allen Berry Jr. (See 1946).

1953

Dr. William Charles Mieher Jr., a specialist in in-
ternal medicine at Shannon Medical Center in San
Angelo, Texas, died Aug. 20, 1987. After his
premedical training at W&L, he earned a doctorate
in medicine from Tennessee College of Medicine
in 1955. Between 1955 and 1963, he was at the
Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, first as an intern
and resident and then as an associate. He then join-
ed the San Angelo Medical and Surgical Clinic,
which was later renamed the Angelo Clinic
Association.

1962

Richard Stokes Jones, a specialist in American In-
dian policy with the Library of Congress, died
Sept. 9, 1987. After graduating from Washington
and Lee, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, he earned a master’s degree in English
literature from Tulane University in 1963 and
studied during the next academic year at the
universities of Mainz and Tubingen on a Fulbright
fellowship. After additional graduate work at
Princeton University on a National Defense
Scholarship, he served as master of American
literature at the Asheville (N.C.) School for Boys.
In 1966, Jones joined the staff of the Library of
Congress as a history and public affairs analyst
in Congressional Research Service. After develop-
ing an expertise in researching civil rights and
ethnic minorities, he became a public policy analyst
and then a specialist in the Government Division.
He was the author of Analysis of Indian Affairs:
Background, Nature, History, Current Issues,
Future Trends (1981) and organized a 350-page
directory of federal government programs of
assistance to American Indians. Throughout his
lifetime, Jones pursued his interests in music and
in English and German literature and was a fre-
quent traveler to England, Germany, and Italy.

Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

EDITOR:

As the wife of a W&L alumnus, I want
to commend you on the Alumni Magazine.
It is a first-rate publication. My husband,
Dan (M. Daniel) Becque, ’78, and I are quite
busy, yet we always find time to read and
enjoy your fine magazine.

I find it ironic that I married a W&L
graduate, as W&L was one of my top col-
lege choices. Alas, I was about 10 years too
early for coed admissions.

FRANCES BECQUE
Ann Arbor, Mich.

EDITOR:

Each year I look forward to reading the
W&L athletic schedule, for I know the
creative director in the athletic office has
diligently booked yet another string of
unknown colleges.

This year I decided to try my own hand
at this so I purchased Peterson’s Annual
Guide to Colleges and Universities to see if
I too could uncover a list of unknown
schools waiting in the wings to schedule the
Generals.

I’ve tried to restrict my list: first to col-
leges within a day’s drive of Lexington and
second to colleges that as far as I could deter-
mine had absolutely nothing in common with

40 W&L

W&L, her alumni, or her applicants. Here’s
ago...

I started in Virginia, but alas all the
Bridgewaters, the Averetts, the Eastern Men-
nonites, and the Shenandoah Conservatories
had already been scheduled. I moved north
to Pennsylvania and found fertile fields.
There’s Alvernia College in Reading, Carlow
College in Pittsburgh, Eastern College in St.
David’s, and Spring Garden College in
Chestnut Hill.

Maryland wasn’t so easy, yet there’s still
a couple: Sojourner-Douglass College out-
side of Baltimore and Columbia Union in
Takoma Park.

In North Carolina, Piedmont Bible Col-
lege should offer a challenge as I suspect
would Brescia College in Owensboro, Ky.
Though a little out of the way, I understand
Freed-Hardeman College in Henderson,
Tenn., would be willing to come to Lex-
ington. I’d hoped O’More School of Design,
a four-year institution of higher learning,
would provide some fine competition, but
they don’t field much of anything—yet.

I guess the point is that I’ve often
wondered why W&L can’t play colleges
known to us lesser academicians. Wouldn’t
it be great to be able to say we beat Cornell
in lacrosse, Notre Dame in football,

Georgetown in basketball, and Pittsburg in
wrestling? Heck, no one would have to know
we’re talking about Cornell College in
Mount Vernon, Iowa, Notre Dame College
of Ohio, Georgetown College of Kentucky,
or Pittsburg State in Pittsburg, Kan.

I’d even settle for some of the lesser col-
leges like Trinity College in Burlington, Vt.,
or Dickinson in Dickinson, N.D.

Even alumni know schedules are set years
in advance so nothing’s going to happen very
fast. I’m told, however, there’s a chance for
a quick hit if we keep it in the family. Let’s
schedule Lee College in Cleveland, Tenn. If
we win, we’ve kissed our half-sister. More
importantly, win or lose, we won’t run the
risk of offending the good General.

Seriously, maybe all the schedule needs
is humor: for example, Goshen College in
Goshen, Ind. Can you imagine opening the
Sunday sports page and reading: ““W&L
beats Goshen at the Pass.’’

SHELDON CLARK, 758
New York City

Address correspondence to ‘‘And Further-
more’; W&L Alumni Magazine; Reid Hall;
Washington and Lee University; Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

 

Nov.
Nov.

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Nov.
Nov.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Feb.

Mar

Keep Up
With the Generals

This Winter

20-21
23

wOuUnwnoe

8-9
12
14
16
19
21
24
26
30

11
13
16
20
23
26
27

13
21-22

10
15
16-17
22
29
30

13
19-21

25-27

. 17-19

ASKETBALL

Tip-Off Tournament
Emory
Hampden-Sydney
Greensboro
Lynchburg
Bridgewater
Buffalo State
W&L Invitational
Mount St. Mary’s
Roanoke

Emory & Henry
Eastern Mennonite
Bridgewater
Maryville
Hampden-Sydney
Lynchburg
Averett

Emory & Henry
Emory

Mary Washington
Roanoke

Eastern Mennonite
Maryville

ODAC Quarterfinals
ODAC Semifinals
ODAC Finals

MEN’S SWIMMING

V.M.I.

W&L Invitational
Towson State
Georgetown
Shippensburg

W&L Sr. Invitational
Johns Hopkins
Shepherd

Gettysburg

William and Mary
Mary Washington
Swimming &

Diving Championships
Emory Univ. Regional
Championships
NCAA Division III Men’s
Championships

Home
Away
Home
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Home
Away
Away
Away
Away

TBA
Away
Away

Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Home
Away

Home
Away

Away

 

Nov

Nov
Nov

Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

. Jan.

Jan.

Feb.
Feb.

Feb.

Mar.

Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

WOMEN’S SWIMMING

. 13

. 14
. 21-22
5
10
16-17
22
29
30
13
19-21

25-27

10-12

10
13
19-20

March 2-5

Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.

Feb.

23
30

13
27

Rand.-Macon Woman’s,
Mary Baldwin

Hollins

W&L Invitational

Sweet Briar

Georgetown

W&L Senior Invitational

Johns Hopkins

Shepherd

Gettysburg

Mary Washington

Swimming & Diving

Championships

Emory Univ. Regional

Championships

NCAA Div. III] Women’s

Championships

WRESTLING

Lebanon Valley

U. Maryland Open
Lebanon Valley
Lebanon Valley Dual
W&L Invitational
Virginia Tech
Longwood Invitational
Virginia State

Wash. & Jefferson Triangular

Longwood
Davidson Triangular

NCAA III Eastern Regionals

NCAA III Championships

INDOOR TRACK

Virginia Tech Invitational
VMI Relays

Lynchburg Invitational
Lynchburg Relays

ODAC Championships

Home
Home
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Away

Home
Away

Away

Away
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away

Away
Away
Away
Away
Home

 

The Alumni Magazine of - Misa Peon Ge
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY | | US. Postage”

oo ye PAID
Lexington, Virginia ae / 4 Permit No. 6238

Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

  

You did remember
to make your donation
to the Annual Fund,
didn’t you?

 

 

Don’t you forget to make your oift
to the Washington and Lee Annual Fund
before the new year begins.

(And get your tax deduction.)

J Ss The Annual Fund
8 Doe Washington and Lee University
_ Lexington, Virginia 24450

