 
   

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

October 1990

 

Along the Colonnade

It’s a tough word, ‘‘commencement.’’ As graduation speakers always
seem to remind their young audiences, the word literally means a
beginning—the kickoff, as it were, to one’s adult life, with careers and mar-
riages and children and grown-up responsibilities.

Each spring, many seniors across the country view commencement in
just this way. They’re excited about the future, and they seize it with en-
thusiasm. They can hardly wait to ‘‘get out’’ and get on with their lives,
to be finished forever with professors and papers, with dining hall food and
examinations, and—most of all—with grades.

But things don’t quite work that way at Washington and Lee. In fact,
the opposite seems to be true. Year after year, many of our seniors view
the approach of June with dread and find graduation a wrenching experience,
as they say goodbye to their friends, their professors, and the campus itself.
Indeed, some of them successfully manage to postpone the inevitable. They
stay in Lexington during the summer (an example is Alice Harrell, 90, who
writes about her experiences on page 28). Others come back for a weekend
here or there, in the summer months or on into the school year. Some do
make the break, but they dream of returning one day as a member of the
faculty or administration.

What is it about Washington and Lee that makes it so hard to let go?
A group of undergraduates wrestled with that question this spring while they
were enrolled in a new course, taught by Taylor Sanders, on the history
of the University. At the course’s conclusion, they tried to define what is
special about W&L. Four of their answers are printed in this magazine, begin-
ning on page 14.

But they discovered what others have found, that it’s difficult to define

the indefinable. So perhaps it is best to follow President John Wilson’s ad-
vice. During Ais commencement address, Wilson cautioned against trying
too hard to analyze Washington and Lee, to determine what makes it so
special.

Instead, we should simply accept ‘‘the Washington and Lee experience,”’
be grateful for it, and do what we can to preserve it for future generations.
And that’s good advice for all of us—at graduation, or at any other time.

In addition to Alice Harrell, a couple of other Washington and Lee graduates
have contributed articles to this issue. R. Plater Robinson, ’78, a free-lance writer
from New Orleans, brings his considerable knowledge of Eastern Europe to ‘‘A Tale
of Three Cities.’’ Robinson has done stories for National Public Radio, Christian
Science Monitor-Radio, and Pacifica Radio.

Wendy Wolford, ’90, is the author of ‘‘Serving Others,’’ which begins on page
19. Wolford majored in journalism at W&L and now works for the Daily Press in
Newport News, Va.

We’re grateful to these alumni for the valuable additions they have made to this
issue of the magazine.

—A.B.C.

 

 

(nn PCE RR CS

   

Washington and Lee University 4

JAMES M. BALLENGEE, Rector

JouHN D. Wison, President

Brian D. Suaw, Director of
Communications

%

Communications Advisory Boarg

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55

JaMEs J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
ANDREW H. McCuTCHEON, ’48
ROBERT MOTTLEY, ’64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN _
FRANK A. PARSONS, ’54
MATTHEW W. Paxton, ’49
CHARLES S. Rowe, ’45

SARAH K. WIANT, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. RosINson IV, ’72, Presic
Tampa, Fla.

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, 56, ’58L,
President

Baltimore, Md. ES

James D. FARRAR Jr., ’74, Secretary
Director of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va. _*

Rosert W. H. Misi III, ’76, Assoc
Secretary -
Lexington, Va. a

Directors a

BENJAMIN L. BamLey, ’75 a
Charleston, W.Va. | ee

WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61 a
Hilton Head Island, S.C. 4

JoHN A. COCKLEREECE Jr., ’76,
Winston-Salem, N.C.

WALLER T. Dup.Ley, ’74, ’79L
Alexandria, Va.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON,
Staunton, Va.

Cray T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

Rosert S. KEEFE, 68
New York, N.Y.

CHARLES T. McCorp III, ’63
Houston, Texas

EDWARD F. Meyers Jr., 61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio

MICHAEL G. Moraan, ’68
Stamford, Conn.

Mason T. New, ’62
Richmond, Va.

EuGENE C. Perry Jr., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

WiuaM J. Russet Jr., ’57
Malvern, Pa.

WitiaM E. SMITH Jr., ’63
Birmingham, Ala.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

J. FRANK SuRFACE Jr., ’60
Jacksonville, Fla. a

MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L 4
Atlanta, Ga. Z

:

a
a

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
Volume 65, Number 3, October 1990

Leaving ‘This Special Place’ 2
ROTC Program Deactivated 6
A Tale of Three Cities 8
Beyond the Catalog 14
Serving Others 19
The W&L Gazette 21
Class Notes 38
In Memoriam 52
And Furthermore 55

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the generosity of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in April, July, October, and December by Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third-class postage paid at
Cincinnati, Ohio 45214. Signed articles reflect the views of their authors and not necessarily
those of the editorial staff or the University.

ANNE COULLING, Editor ¢ Joyce HARRIS, Associate Editor
DENISE KUHN, Designer ® JOEL SMITH JR., Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer © MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

ieee

 

 

.. LEAVING

 

 

 

 

W&L

 

he crowd began arriving early at
Washington and Lee on the morning of
June 7. It was a good thing, too—they
had to spend time searching for park-
ing spaces and even more time looking
for seats in the shade. Most had come
well prepared, bringing with them
cameras, film, broad-brimmed hats,
umbrellas (just in case), and even a few
handkerchiefs. They were ready for
Washington and Lee’s 205th under-
graduate commencement.

At 11 a.m., all attention shifted
toward the Colonnade, where members
of the class of 1990 slowly began to ap-
pear. They emerged from the front of
Washington Hall, and for the last time
in their undergraduate careers, they
walked in the shadow of the columns,
past Payne and Newcomb Halls and
Cyrus McCormick’s statue, and finally
took their places in front of the Lee
House.

Jon Sheinberg, vice president of the
student body and one of the commence-
ment speakers, seemed to express the
class’s feelings when he told the
audience, ‘‘This is a very special place
to us.”’

‘*Here we are surrounded by history,
traditions, nature, and many close
friends,’’ Sheinberg continued. ‘‘Our
traditions, which have influenced our
life here so much, must not be forgot-
ten. Our Honor System, which we hold
so dear, is constantly being criticized by
those outside our community. We are
told that our environment of trust may
be wonderful at Washington and Lee,
but it does not apply to the real world.
Well, the W&L Honor System does not
apply to the real world, but the values
and moral integrity which develop from
living under such a system are ap-
plicable. We are constantly being judged
by those around us, and a Washington
and Lee lady or gentleman always has
and always will make an excellent im-
pression.”’

‘This Special Place’

During his remarks to the graduates,
President John D. Wilson also spoke
about the uniqueness of Washington
and Lee. ‘‘There is a magical quality
about this University and this communi-
ty that calls from us (not all the time,
but most of the time) the very best we
are capable of giving,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘It
is not a pretentious quality I’m talking
about, and there are clearly lapses from
time to time. But it is a distinctive habit,
a way of life that is not entirely remote
from ideals; a way of life that unembar-
rassingly calls us to various models or
various modes of human excellence.”’

Continued Wilson, ‘‘This extra-
ordinary virtue (for that is what it is) has
the power to transcend cultural boun-
daries, to touch virtually everyone who
comes to live and work here regardless
of differences in background or per-
sonality. The honor code and the legacy
of General Lee have much to do with it,
to be sure, but I suspect an honor system
is more its expression than its cause. No,
we will do well not to try to trace it ex-
actly but, rather, to find new ways each
day to nurture it, to make it part of our
daily lives, to safeguard its efficacy for
the benefit of future generations of
students and faculty who, in their time,
will share the privilege of association
with this place which we so keenly feel
and so gladly acknowledge.”’

 

 

 

 

 

s is customary, graduation was a time
to celebrate the accomplishments and
achievements of the past four years.
Special recognition was given to valedic-
torian Teresa L. Southard of Dayton,
Va., who compiled a cumulative grade-
point average of 4.121 on W&L’s 4.330
scale. She received a bachelor of science
degree summa cum laude with majors
in biology and mathematics.

Southard was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma freshman
honorary society, Alpha Epsilon Delta
premedical society, and the R.E. Lee
Research Program. She was also a
member of the tennis team.

Two other graduating seniors re-
ceived special honors at graduation. G.
Wesley Boyd of Dallas and Nancy L.
Hickam of Pulaski, Va., were awarded
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion, given to students who excel
‘tin high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others.”’

Boyd was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, the Stu-
dent Activities Board, the Student
Recruitment Committee, the Fellowship

 

of Christian Athletes, and the track
team.

Hickam was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, University Scholars, the Student
Recruitment Committee, the Universi-
ty Chorus, and the Health Education
Committee. She also served as a dor-
mitory counselor.

During the commencement exer-
cises, the University conferred honorary
degrees on four individuals. They were
the Very Rev. James C. Fenhagen, ’51;
Virginia legislators Elmon T. Gray and
Omer L. Hirst, ’36; and Judge Robert
R. Merhige Jr.

For the past 12 years Fenhagen has
served as president and dean of General
Theological Seminary, an Episcopalian
school in New York. He holds degrees
from the University of the South and
Virginia Theological Seminary and is the
author of four books on pastoral
theology.

He received the doctor of divinity
degree.

Gray has represented the 16th
District in the Virginia State Senate for
20 years and has served on most of its
major committees. A graduate of
Virginia Military Institute, he has been
president of VMI’s board of visitors and
a trustee of the University of Richmond.

He received the doctor of laws
degree.

Hirst is a longtime member of the
Virginia House of Representatives. He
was the first Virginia legislator publicly
to oppose massive resistance in the
mid-1950s and one of only five delegates
to vote against early attempts to close
the public schools. More recently he
helped to create George Mason Univer-
sity in northern Virginia.

Hirst received the doctor of laws
degree.

In 1967 President Lyndon Johnson
appointed Merhige to the Federal
District Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia. During his 20 years on the

W&L 3

 

 

 

 

bench, he heard cases involving such
sensitive issues as school integration, in-
dustrial pollution, and the regulation of
sexual behavior. He has been honored
by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai
B’rith, the Virginia Trial Lawyers’
Association, and the state and national
bar associations.

He received the doctor of laws
degree.

The commencement exercises actual-
ly began Wednesday, June 6, with the
traditional baccalaureate service. The
keynote speaker for that occasion was
Fenhagen, who would receive an
honorary degree the following day.

he text for Fenhagen’s address was
Joshua 1:9, which reads, ‘‘Be strong and
of good courage, be not frightened,
neither be dismayed, for the Lord your
God is with you wherever you go.”’

*‘Courage,’’ Fenhagen said, ‘“‘is an
action word. It means nothing if you
never do anything in your life for which
courage is demanded. Courage is needed
when you are preparing to meet tough
challenges or move into situations that
are threatening enough to cause fear, or
at least a tinge of anxiety. Courage is a
gift. It comes from within when we dare
to move beyond what we think we are
or beyond what we have always thought
we could do.’’

Fenhagen told the seniors there were
three areas of their lives in which a
special sort of courage might be re-
quired. First, he said, ‘‘it takes courage
to be the kind of person that other peo-
ple can trust and rely on. Being
trustworthy means owning your own
vulnerability and not having to build
yourself up at other people’s expense.”’

He added, ‘‘I had a teacher once
who made the point that God created
human beings to love people and use
things, reminding us of how we have
distorted this by loving things and using
people. . . .What is required is a new

dimension of courage in our land to love
people and use things, and not the Other
way round.’’

Secondly, Fenhagen said, ‘‘I woulg
wish for you the courage to live a mora]
life in what is basically an amoral world,
When I say this, I am not speaking
about being prudish or moralistic or
self-righteous, but about being a decent
human being for whom personal integri-
ty is something to be valued. Morality
involves the choices we make which rein-
force such basic values as a sense of
justice and fair play, or being faithful
to the people who trust us, or feeling
compassion for those who are down and
out.’’

Finally, Fenhagen said, ‘‘I would
wish you the courage to live your lives
from inside out rather than from out-
side in. . . .God created us to have solid
centers with flexible edges which allow
us to know who we are inside ourselves,
with boundaries that are flexible enough
to take in new ideas and new people with
ease.”’

A few weeks before undergraduate
commencement, Washington and Lee
awarded law degrees to 111 third-year
students. Rain forced the ceremony in-
doors, and it was held in the Universi-
ty’s Warner Center for the first time
since 1984.

The keynote speaker for the event
was U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry
A. Blackmun, who told the graduates to
use their talents wisely and to retain their
humanity throughout their work.

‘‘There comes a time,’’ Blackmun
said, ‘‘when one must choose what he
or she intends to make out of life. Does
one want to indulge in narrow client care
and enjoy a good monetary return or get
into the lucrative aspects of securities
transactions and super-rich clients, or
does he seek out the service areas of the
profession, too?”’

Blackmun continued, ‘*Do not suc-
cumb to the lure of convenience and the
easy way. You should know what is
ethical and you should know the value
of one’s word and one’s good name. Do
not abuse the trust that this university
and this country have bestowed on
you.’”’

During the commencement
ceremony, Joel Alan Waite of Fort Lit-
tleton, Pa., received the John W. Davis
Prize for Law for compiling the highest
cumulative grade-point average.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Five Retire from Faculty, Staff

Three Washington and Lee
professors and two members of
the staff retired at the end of the
1989-90 academic year.

They are Gerard M. Doyon,
professor of art history; H.
Eugene King, professor of
psychology; Richard Miller, pro-
fessor of physical education;
James D. Farrar, ’49, associate
director of special programs; and
Boyd H. Williams, assistant foot-
ball coach.

After serving in the U.S. Army
from 1942 to 1945, Doyon re-
ceived degrees from the Man-
chester Institute of Arts, St.
Anselm’s College, Ecole des
Beaux-Arts and Ecole du Musee
du Louvre, and Boston Universi-
ty. He served as chairman of the
art departments at St. Anselm’s
and Florida Atlantic University
before joining the W&L faculty in
1968 as head of the art division.

Doyon’s specialty is 19th-
century French art. He also re-
ceived the Jefferson Davis Medal
for Research in the History of the
South for his work on Valentine’s
recumbent statue of Lee in Lee
Chapel.

King has degrees from the
University of Richmond and Co-
lumbia University. He held facul-
ty appointments at the Columbia
University College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Tulane University
Medical School, and the Western
Psychiatric Institute and Clinic at
the University of Pittsburgh
Medical School before coming to
WA&L in 1977.

He has published several books
and more than 100 chapters and
scientific articles dealing with the
relation of the brain to behavior
and with human brain dys-
function.

Miller graduated from Spring-
field College, where he also served

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retiring from Washington and Lee last
spring were, from top, Eugene King,
Gerard Doyon, Boyd Williams,
Richard Miller, and James Farrar.

 

 

as a coach for two years before
coming to Lexington. During his
38 years as a teacher, coach, and
administrator, he has led W&L
teams to 334 victories in cross
country, wrestling, and track.

Miller has been associate direc-
tor of athletics and physical educa-
tion at Washington and Lee and
was acting director in 1989.

Farrar joined the W&L staff in
1952 as assistant director of admis-
sions. In 1960 he was also named
director of student financial aid
and scholarships. He served as
director of admissions from 1962
to 1978, when he became the coor-
dinator of the University’s Alum-
ni Admissions Program.

In 1987 Farrar joined the of-
fice of summer programs (now
special programs) as associate
director. He has worked closely
with the administrative, market-
ing, and admissions functions for
W&L’s summer programs.

Williams has been Washington
and Lee’s defensive line coach
since 1955. When the University
put an end to subsidized football
in the summer of 1954, that fall’s
varsity schedule was cancelled.
Williams, who was then a local in-
surance agent, organized a
makeshift W&L football squad
and guided it through a 2-1-1
junior varsity season. The
Generals began varsity competi-
tion on the college-division level
the following year, and Williams
stayed on as an assistant.

A graduate of Syracuse, where
he was a four-year football stan-
dout, Williams has also coached at
Virginia Military Institute and the
University of Richmond. He
played professional football with
the Richmond Rebels and the
Philadelphia Eagles in the late
1940s.

W&L

 

 

 

 

After nearly 40 years of training cadets, Washington and
Lee’s Army Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) program

is coming to an end.

The U.S. Army announced in July that it was deactivating
50 ROTC programs at college campuses across the country,

including Washington and Lee.
The programs were closed, the Army said, because of
budget cuts in the military and because, as the force becomes
Pro VQ in smaller, fewer junior officers will be needed. The reductions
were based on the concept of ‘‘viability.’’ The Army judges
viability according to enrollment figures, the number of of-

e ficers a program produces, and the quality of its officers.

eC a C [ J V a [ eC ‘‘Quality has never been a problem at W&L,”’ says Lt. Col.
Joel J. Snow, chairman of the University’s military science
department. ‘‘Every year we produce very fine officers. But
our numbers have been consistently low for the last six years.”

In June 1988 the University’s ROTC unit commissioned 10
officers. Fifteen were commissioned in 1989. This past June,
only five received commissions. ‘‘To be considered viable, a
unit must commission at least 15 each year,’’ Snow explains.
‘‘This was not a casual decision. The decision to close the 50
programs was agonizingly reached all the way up to the
secretary of the Army and the chief of staff. In an era of
defense cutbacks, we simply have too many resources commit-
ted here for the number of officers gained.’’

Four years ago, Washington and Lee’s ROTC program was
placed under ‘‘region intensive management,’’ which Snow
defines as a type of probation. Since then, the department has
intensified its recruiting efforts. The officers distributed

 

6 W&L

 

 

 

 

 

marketing surveys among
the student body and com-
pletely revised their process
for attracting new cadets.
Their work produced some
results, Snow says, but not
enough: ‘‘We just didn’t see
very much on the horizon.”’

The ROTC program will
continue to operate at
Washington and Lee during
the 1990-91 academic year.
It will not, however, admit
any new students. Those
cadets—freshman, soph-
omore, junior, or senior—
who are currently enrolled in
ROTC will be able to leave
the program if they wish, or
transfer to another school
with ROTC. But neighbor-
ing Virginia Military In-
Stitute has agreed to instruct
ROTC cadets on the W&L
Campus until June 1994,

tage
J

>
Le’
at

,

an

~

a

*
°F tu
-.

Pd ri
ty
som ™

-

~~
oy
-
-

.
~

iz

_-
t=
a

e
=
4

Ta

J

San) Pa

S

Dyan

 

 

T

ie <<.

*)
of
Ls
oo

 

low during the Vietnam War
era and rebounding in the
late 1970s and early 1980s.
Snow believes several factors
have caused its recent fall in
popularity. But whatever the
reason, he and his colleagues
believe that ROTC will be
hard to replace.

**ROTC has been a tradi-
tion at Washington and Lee
for the past 40 years,’’ he
says. ‘‘After all, this is a
school that’s named after
two of our nation’s most
famous generals. The values
that we often associate with
W&L—honor, service to
country, service to human-
ity—are the same values that
ROTC represents. We also
provide unique leadership
opportunities to students.’’

It is conceivable that one
of these days, another

When the last of the currently enrolled cadets will graduate. ROTC unit might begin at Washington and Lee. While Snow
There are no plans for cross-enrollment with VMI after 1994. thinks that’s unlikely, he’s not ruling anything out.

Since ROTC was established at Washington and Lee in ‘Once ROTC leaves a campus, it seldom comes back,”’ he
1951, the number of participants has fluctuated, hittingarecord says. ‘‘But who knows what the future holds?”’

W&L 7

 

A
Tale of
Three Cities

by R. Plater Robinson, ’78

 

 

 

 

To the right just after my train had crossed the Oder River
into Polish territory, I saw an old Soviet tank half-buried in
a field, its long barrel aimed at the sky. It was a relic from the
great battle that had taken place here in 1945 when the Red
Army began its final offensive on Berlin, and, in a way, it was
not unlike the mobile missile launcher that I had glimpsed from
this train in 1980. It, too, had been aimed at the sky.
8 W&L

Two steps back into this country |
stood reminded of a fact of history:
Poland, to rework one of its own
proverbs, is ‘‘the place where the
devil says good night.’’

Mingling with the rumble of the
train, a soft rendition of the Polish
national anthem slipped through the
partly open door of the compartment.
I had been taking a nap, but now [|
reached for my tape recorder and
followed the sound to its source, the
elderly woman sitting on top of her
luggage in the aisle. Later, in a story
for National Public Radio titled
**Poland and the Great Powers:
1939-1945,’ I used this sound as
background for my opening
narration:

**On the train to Warsaw an elder-
ly woman sings the Polish national
anthem. Like this country her life is
broken into halves: before Sept. 1,
1939, and after it. And like this coun-
try she has endured the words that
she now sings: ‘Poland is not yet lost,
as long as we are alive.’ ”’

Only one thing upset this image
otherwise lifted from the canvas of
Polish romanticism: The elderly
woman was completely drunk. ‘‘I’m
too old to be pessimistic,’’ she
laughed, before quickly moving on to
those two questions I would hear not
for the last time in the land of her
birth: ‘‘Did I have some vodka? And
why not?’’

May 3 he anniversary of the
CO 1, a liberal

nm that raised alarm in im-

Russia and led to the second

irtitic f Poland >» years later.
A crowd had gathered to commem-
orate the anniversary at the Tomb of
the Unknown Soldier in Warsaw,
where one speaker after another rose
to denounce the Molotov-Ribbentrop
Pact, which resulted in the fourth
partition of Poland in 1939; or to in-
voke the memory of Katyn Forest,
where the Soviet secret police mur-
dered more than 4,000 Polish officers
in 1940; or simply to lament the other
crimes visited upon Poland in this
century which, to quote Andre
Malraux, ‘‘killed man.’’

Off to the side yet unwilling to be
out of the picture, a gang of young
toughs from the prone-to-violence

 

“Federation of Fighting Youth’’ shuf-
fled about, quite unable to suppress
the deep agitation that led them to
bang their sticks against the pavement
and, in sum, to appear like salvos
about to take off.

Which they did, suddenly break-
ing into a sprint in the direction (I
learned) of the Communist Party
Headquarters, a fortress-like building
that the Communists had labeled
‘‘Our House’ when they built it dur-
ing the height of Stalinism with ‘‘do-
nations’ accepted from a dejected
populace. The ‘*Fighting Youth’’
rounded the corner, but suddenly in
trucks the equally prone-to-violence
Zomo arrived, the riot troops who
had given a ‘‘soft’’ martial law its
moments of terror.

In the thick of a vicious battle in
front of the St. Cross Church, during
which both sides gave as good as they
got, a lofted Molotov cocktail soared
through the air like a shooting star. It
landed square on the roof of a Zomo
van, spewing its liquid contents in all
directions. The flame illuminated the
street, and for a split second both
sides looked up to take in a sight that
was not without a certain beauty.

The skirmish ended as suddenly as
it began, and the Zomos, beating
their shields with truncheons like
triumphant barbarians, marched
toward the dark street whence they
had come. Abruptly, however, they
took a hard right and charged a
group of spectators, including at
least one fellow from New Orleans.

I had been standing at the mouth
of a driveway that led into the court-
yard of a tall apartment building.
Behind two other distressed souls I
sprinted toward the courtyard, vague-
ly under the impression that I might
escape the flood by stepping back
from the river. The screams of those
who did not think similarly echoed
down the driveway and into the
courtyard as I followed very closely in
the footsteps of the two others. Very
closely in my own footsteps I felt the
untoward presence of a Zomo, an ob-
viously stalwart recruit who did not
8ive up the chase even after we flew
Into the apartment building.

Each time I turned to run up
another flight of stairs, I found

myself directly opposite him, sepa-
rated only by the hand rail. He wore
a plastic mask over his face and black
boots that (I suspected) reached to his
soul. ‘‘OK, you’ve scared us,”’ I
thought. ‘‘Surely it’s time to give it
up.’’ But this instrument of the totali-
tarian order didn’t give it up—
although he slowed noticeably on
about the fifth floor.

At the top floor, following the
two others, I banged through a door,
ran down the hall, and banged
through another door. The two others
jumped into a closet hardly big
enough for the toilet it already shel-
tered. I opened the door: They looked
at me like deer into a headlight.

I closed the door and opened
another. It led to a different stairway,
this one down. I hurried, but before
the door had closed behind me I
could hear my erstwhile companions
suffering the blows of the Zomo who
didn’t give up.

I didn’t dare go down because the
courtyard was teeming with Zomos,
but nor could I stay put because the
Zomo above me might take these
stairs down. So I climbed out on a
window ledge. Directly across from
me the apartment windows had filled
with inhabitants whose dinner had
been interrupted by the commotion
and who now limply peered out on
the Zomos in the courtyard below.
One by one they looked over at me,
but without expression. They just
stared. I wanted them to whisper en-
couragement, to wink, to be on my
side, but they just stared.

This was a scene that had repeated
itself so often in Polish history that
people simply looked out of the win-
dow and counted their blessings that
this time they weren’t in that number
being rounded up and taken away.

Warily I came down the stairs
once the courtyard had emptied. Out-
side on the street Zomos were milling
about with their masks lifted off their
faces, and I couldn’t help but notice
how young they were, the same age
as the kids they had chased, pum-
meled, and escorted to a Zomo van,
slightly toasted. I walked away, my
teeth (of all things) stinging with the
pain that resulted from a sensation of
which I had little experience: fear.

And this on a night when the
Poles celebrated a distant, liberal
constitution.

In late 1944, once they had
crushed the Warsaw Uprising, the
Germans dynamited the Polish

capital one building at a time.
Today the center of Warsaw, unlike
the meticulously restored Old Town,
is so bleak a setting it can make a
summer day look like the dead of
winter. The bleak setting, in turn,
made the colorful band of gypsy
women strolling my way appear all
the more incongruous, like a smile at
a funeral. They demanded (and re-
ceived) from me some Polish coins,
and a few steps later, in what came as
quite a surprise, they stopped to flirt
with two police officers in a car
labeled ‘‘Milicija.’’ I thought this
might be a good photograph, and,
careful not to allow the Milicija to
see me—click, I was on my way.

Before I turned the corner the
Milicija car pulled up and the weasel
of a guy inside demanded my film. I
had been turned in by a gypsy! I
looked at the camera to see how
many exposures I’d made: 32 of 36.

**Nie ma,’’ I said, an expression
meaning ‘‘No more’’ I had picked up
at the grocery store. The locks of the
back door popped up; I got in. The
Milicija tried to start the car, but it
coughed. He tried again. Nothing. I
unrolled the film, put it in my bag,
and pulled out a new roll. I wanted
to slip it into the camera, but this was
a task beyond the reach of my nerve.

The Milicija, itching to blame me
for the level of civilization he was
made to suffer, demanded the film
again. I opened the empty camera for
him to take a look inside, but what-
ever I had for sale, he didn’t buy it,
and gestured anew for the film. I
gave him the unused roll, the placebo.
He bought it! With almost a theatri-
cal sneer he pulled out the film bit by
bit, exposing it from tip to toe. I col-
lapsed into my hands. This obviously
pleased him as he offered me the
twisted remnants. ‘‘May I go?’’ I
asked.

It was a glum figure who walked
away, but inside I felt the immense
pleasure of a small victory against a
system that usually wins.

W&L 9

The utmost joy felt in West Germany when Mikhail
Gorbachev visited in June 1989 was aptly expressed by
a German friend one morning at breakfast. Bereft of a girl-
friend, he had dreamt of making love to Raisa Gorbachev,

‘‘and it was nice.’’

On Sunday, Aug. 13, the 28th an-
niversary of the day when the first
bricks of the Berlin Wall were laid,

I took the subway to Checkpoint
Charlie, the American crossing point
into East Berlin and the setting of
dramatic confrontations in past years.
Two months before, the East German
leader Erich Honneker had vowed
that German unification was ‘‘as
likely as a marriage of fire and
water.’’ Yet the crowd at Check-
point Charlie saw it differently and,
abetted by heat, drink, and ideology,
it became increasingly truculent as the
day wore on.

The East German guards who had
formed a human chain in front of the
crossing point seemed a caricature of
the dark past, except for one who
had cruel features and looked the
part. The crowd, led by a besotted
old man who looked the part of a
failed poet, hissed at the guards while
overhead many a beer can was tossed
at them from the west. The crowd fed
on itself like a good mob, and, in
contrast, I felt a tinge of sympathy
for the young East German guards,
whose misfortune had been to lose
the first roll of dice: where, and
when, a person is born. And who, to
take it a step further, had been made
to suffer for the crimes of Hitler, and
for a lost war, in a way considerably
more taxing than had their prosperous
relatives in the West.

With ‘‘a sniper’s eye’’ the failed
poet placed an empty beer can in
front of the guard who had the cruel
features. Out of the can (a Berliner
Kindl) sprouted a miniature but
notable flag of the Federal Republic
of West Germany. The guard eyed it,
looked up at the crowd, paused for
effect, and then gave it a boot,
thereby reinforcing: the view of Erich
Honneker on the subject.

But the time for kicking over op-
ponents was drawing to a close.

10 W&L

A few days after the Berlin Wall
opened on the night of Nov. 9, I
caught a ride to West Berlin with
Marek, a Polish tie-maker who goes
there regularly to buy textiles. We
discussed the German jubilation so
ardently evinced over the breached
Wall. It was the subject on the tip of
every Pole’s tongue, and Marek
summed up the pure dread that had
fallen over Poland. ‘‘I like it when
people are happy,’’ he tried to ex-
plain, ‘‘but when the Germans are
happy, well, it’s different.’’

Just west of Poznan we entered
the swath of territory that had been
part of the German Reich until 1945,
when the German inhabitants who
had not fled the Red Army were ex-
pelled by the new Polish authorities.
The land and property were seized by
Poles who themselves had been ‘‘re-
located’’ from the eastern half of
Poland that was incorporated into the
Soviet Union. The way Churchill
described it to Stalin left unmentioned
the human costs: ‘‘He moved three
matches from East to West and said,
‘That is what should be done.’ ”’
Breslau, as a result, became Wroclaw,
inhabited by Poles from Lwow (with-
out, alas, the Jewish humor once
typical of that city).

In a field beside the autobahn a tin
shack appeared that looked too
fragile to have withstood the violent
winds known to have passed this
way. But the word of a certain echo
painted on its door suggested maybe
it had. ‘‘Achtung!’’ (Attention!) it
commanded; and every Pole heard it.
Before we crossed the East Ger-
man border at the Oder River for the
stone’s throw of a ride to Berlin,
Marek pulled over and paid a local
kid to wash the car. It was a precau-

tion taken by a wise traveler before
entering a foreign land.

It is not enough to trot out the fa-
miliar statistics that six million Poles,
half of them Polish Jews, perished at
the hands of the Nazis (18 percent of
the population), or that every Polish
city except Krakow was reduced to
rubble. It is more instructive to travel]
the Polish countryside and to con-
front the motif of untold tragedy, a
black metal sign bearing two white
swords and a red flame that points to
another site of ‘‘Polish martyrdom.’’
Be it a skirmish or a massacre of
civilians, in a field, down a road, in
the most remote village, this sign is
found, ubiquitous, like the mush-
rooms that grow so richly nearby.

Old hatreds awoke in East Ger-
many before the first Trabant auto-
mobile crept into West Berlin. In
Potsdam a ‘‘raging mob’’ destroyed
eight cars belonging to Polish factory
workers. Shopkeepers at East German
stores refused to sell consumer items
to Polish customers. And in Cottbus-
on-the-Oder, a sign put it bluntly with
an eloquence of old: ‘‘Polen raus’’
(Poles out), an indelicate choice of
words for which the East German
ambassador apologized on Polish
television, blaming the incident on
**economic troubles.’’ Unfortunately
for the luckless diplomat, it was less a
problem of economics than a history
of almost 1,000 years.

Needless to say, the apology failed
to take, and a Polish tabloid ran a
headline about East Germany that
recalled the signs on certain restau-
rants and streetcars during the Nazi
occupation of Poland: ‘‘Nur fuer
deutsche!’’ (For Germans Only!) But
it was left to the stately Economist to
hit the mark with the best title:
‘*Poles and Germans: Bad Oder.”’

It was, in fact, the Oder River
(which together with the Neisse River
is the Polish-East German border)
that was the subject of a dispute last
winter whose embers were fanned
every time Helmut Kohl chose to ad-
dress it. Or, to be precise, chose not
to address it.

Though a West German govern-
ment had done so in 1970, Chancellor
Kohl adamantly refused to recognize
the Oder-Neisse frontier, hiding be-

ai —— a

 

 

 

hind the thin skirt of the argument
that the border could not be recog-
nized until a peace treaty concluding
World War II had been signed; and,
as Kohl reminded his fidgeting dinner
guests during a state visit to Warsaw
last November, “‘We all know a peace
treaty has not been signed.”’

In truth, the reticence of Mr. Kohl
was rooted more in domestic politics
than in legal niceties: He feared losing
the not inconsiderable support of
those Germans who had been ex-
pelled from present-day Poland (and
Czechoslovakia). This group is repre-
sented in the West German parliament
by more than 20 members of Kohl’s
own party, one of whom is the
finance minister, Theo Waigel. In
August 1989, Herr Waigel told a con-
vention of expellees that ‘‘the lands
east of the Oder and Neisse Rivers
are part of the German question.’’ If
his words were not explicit, a poster
in the crowd shed all ambiguity:
‘*Silesia is ours!”’

‘‘Nobody thinks of expelling the
Poles,’’ Kohl had reassured his Polish
hosts in November, and, somehow
less reassuringly, ‘‘One expulsion is
enough!’’ The Poles, acknowledging
that the devil tends to be in the
details, requested a seat at the ‘*Two
Plus Four’’ Conference that would
serve as the final peace settlement.
Kohl refused, but after a torrent of
criticism he relented, pledging to
recognize the Polish border and,
with a forced smile, offering the
Poles a seat at the table.

Poles felt reassured that their war-
time allies, who had sanctioned the
absorption of Reich lands into the
new Polish state in the first place,
would not abandon them. At the
Same time, they felt entitled to con-
tinue harboring doubts about West
Germany, whose chancellor would
Play politics in such a way as to send
Shivers down the spine of a nation
that had been so cruelly tested by the
Nazis. And in Warsaw, as if to prove
that enmity breeds enmity, when
Polish Prime Minister Tadeusz
Mackiewicz was asked if he would
meet Kohl’s demand that the rights
of the German minority still living in
Poland be guaranteed, he replied with
4 single word: ‘‘Nie.”’

 

 

 

 

A few days after the start of the so-called Velvet Revolution
in Czechoslovakia, I caught the train to Prague where I stayed
with Czech friends who live on the outskirts of the city, literal-
ly where the tram line ends and the forest begins. That first
night as I walked the last distance from the tram stop I caught
sight of three sheets of paper that had been neatly taped to a
garage door. I figured the three sheets of paper took as a
theme the dramatic events of late.

In a dim pool of light beneath the
street lamp, the lone figure of a
woman leaned forward to read what
this billboard nee garage had to say,
and I shuffled over in the snow to see

if I could recognize a word or two. I
could. One piece of paper signed by a
student organization read simply:
**Dialogue.’’ It was underlined twice
but had no exclamation point, as if a

W&L ii

mirror of the steadfast yet undramatic
Czech character.

The woman had no idea I was not
a fellow Czech, but as we stood side
by side for several minutes, alone on
a dark street with no witness in sight,
reading what amounted to the prom-
ise of a new day, she uttered not a
word. Nor did she look at me. She
turned and walked away. Why take

the chance? To her, I was the witness.

The next morning on the tram to
St. Wenceslas Square the guy sitting
across from me, happily ensconced in
the flag of the pre-1939 Czechoslovak
republic, exchanged mirth and guf-
faws with another guy at the far end
of the tram. The whole tram laughed
right along with these two characters.
It was like a cabaret, and so unlike
the Czechs, who, it is fair to say, are
not much given to cabaret. Outside it
was bitterly cold, but you could hear
the ice cracking.

On the street a teenage boy had
fashioned an armband out of a
sticker usually attached to the rear
window of an automobile; it read
**CS”’ for Czechoslovakia. I described
it as a fit of patriotic improvisation.
My own stripes of the Czechoslovak
tricolors (red, white, and blue) I ob-
tained from two young fellows who
brushed aside my willingness to pay.
I pinned the colors to my coat, and,
for a moment that does not come
twice, I felt a surge of warmth to
be in Prague, privileged to share this
moment.

Photographs taken on Nov. 17
(when the police had routed a student
demonstration) were prominent in
the windows, and the most striking
among them was of a blond youth,
his head limp and bloodstained, being
transported in the arms of a police-
man to a waiting van. It was an
astute move by the students to
distribute these photographs so
quickly and so widely; it helped to

12 W&L

spread the word at a time when the
state media were silent. And every
revolution needs its martyrs.

The manifestos and photos in the
windows put on display the attitude
of the shop owner as much as any-
thing else, because he, or she, allowed
them to remain there. In this sense
the cluttered windows dovetailed nice-
ly with the popular play titled The
Power of the Powerless that was
being secretly performed in Prague.

In the play the Party instructed a
grocer to add to his window the
obligatory poster: ‘‘Workers of the
world, unite!’’ Mindful of his vaca-
tions at the Black Sea and a universi-

ty education for his children, the
grocer obliged. The author of the
play concluded that for Communism
to be defeated, the grocer had to take
down the sign and ‘“‘begin living in
truth.’’ Truth, in the first step sym-
bolized by sheets of paper licked to a
shop window, had returned; and,
more concretely, the author of that
play, Vaclav Havel, celebrated the
new year by taking the oath of office
as president of the Czechoslovak
nation.

I stepped into a grocery store that
was brightly lit and filled with goods
of every description that, except for
an occasional ‘‘producto de Cuba,’’

 

were all from Czechoslovakia. In con-
trast to the bare shelves of Poland
this Prague grocery store had the feel
of a Potemkin village. I turned on my
recorder to gather first the sound of
the hustle and bustle of patrons lined
up at the counter, and then, as I
walked outside with the recorder still
on, the cheering and applause from
St. Wenceslas Square two blocks
away. The juxtaposition of sound il-
lustrated a point about revolutions:
Only a few people actually make
them; most people are late for work,
or have shopping to do.

Change money?”’ I agreed,
and we had huddled beneath a stair-
way when all of a sudden the fel-
low whispered to be careful of the
‘‘Poliezi!’’ (Police!) I looked up but
didn’t see any ‘‘Poliezi!’’ This raised
suspicion about my partner, as I had
enough, shall I say, uneven experi-
ence on the black market to know
that accountants of this sort like to
provoke alarm, taking advantage of
the already heightened atmosphere to
pull a fast one. I broke away to con-
template the situation.

With a wink from above, it
dawned on me: What about those
crisp bills he had so quickly passed
before my eyes? I turned to my pesky
accomplice and examined the bills
more closely. They were Polish!

**Polski!’’ I spat, and pitched
them on the ground. ‘‘No, Cesky,”’
he replied calmly, and picked them
up. The gypsy accountant wished to
consummate the deal. ‘‘Polski!’’ I
Stressed. ‘‘Cesky!’’ he countered. But
finally he realized the game was up,
Shrugged his shoulders, and began to
scan the crowd for a joint venture
more to his liking.

_ “Hey you,” I shouted, sounding
like Dill in To Kill A Mockingbird.

‘Polski!”’ ‘“Cesky,’’ he replied,
Smiling.

For an hour and 20 minutes my
friend Hanna and I were left to cool
Our heels. A few yards away and well
Within listening distance a group of

 

 

 

 

Czech and East German officials
chatted amiably while permitting cars
of other nationalities to pass after
only the most cursory of inspections.
They avoided us with a studied
deliberation, but occasionally an of-
ficer approached with dispatch and
seeming intent, only to walk right by
as if we were invisible. It was a
calculated gesture that left us tense
despite the best efforts to remain
aloof from this unpleasant charade.
It was a calculated gesture that
worked.

In front of us two Czech officials
busily examined every nook and
cranny of an old Czech Skoda
automobile. It had been packed so
tightly that it posed the question of
where the passengers had found room
to sit. In the vicinity clothing tossed
from the car gathered in several piles,
and standing a short distance away,
silently but wistfully enduring this

humiliation, three generations of gyp-
sies looked on.

An aged gentleman who was
doubtless the grandfather shuffled
over to the customs officials and pa-
tiently waited for a pause in their
conversation. They ignored him—
until, that is, the gypsy made the
mistake of dropping his cigarette
butt on the ground.

Like theater, the conversation
stopped in half-breath. A Czech of-
ficer stepped back and silently com-
manded the old man to pick up the
crushed remnant of his cigarette. The
other guards looked on and smirked.
To humiliate a man in front of his
family, I thought, is to inflict a
wound the passage of time will not
heal.

Long somnolent, old animosities
between nations have reemerged in
Eastern and Central Europe. Let them
not pick up where they left off.

W&L 13

 

Beyond
the Catalog

 

 

 

js

W&L

There it was, in the middle of the course
listings, sandwiched between History 395C
(‘‘England in the Reign of George III’’) and
History 401 (‘‘Directed Individual Study’’). It
was a bare-bones description, to be sure, but it
was intriguing. After all, here was the chance to
spend a six-week spring term learning about the
history of one’s own school, about Gen. Lee
and Jockey John Robinson and Deans Leyburn
and Gilliam.

Little wonder that when the course was intro-
duced last spring, it was quickly filled to the
limit of 20 students, and even more put their
names on a waiting list. ‘‘] thought maybe
we’d have eight or nine students,’’ says Taylor
Sanders, professor of history and Washington
and Lee’s official historian, who taught the
course. ‘‘But good students just kept sign-
ing up.’’

Sanders shouldn’t have been surprised, really.
The impetus for the course had come initially
from the undergraduates themselves. ‘‘I decided
to offer this class for the first time as a response
to student interest,’’ Sanders explains. ‘‘They
were the ones who requested it.”’

The undergraduates who enrolled in the
course were a good cross-section of the student
body. They were about evenly divided between
men and women and represented several frater-
nities (and all three sororities), nearly every im-
aginable campus organization, and many differ-
ent parts of the country. Several of them were
children of Washington and Lee alumni.

But all of them enrolled in the class for a
simple reason: They wanted to learn more about
their University.

During the term, they studied nearly two and
a half centuries of that heritage. ‘‘We covered
the history of this institution from the earliest
records of the Latin School in Augusta County,
to Liberty Hall Academy, to Washington’s gift,
to Lee’s presidency, to coeducation during
World War II, through the ’60s and to the
present,’’ one of the students, Kelly Shifflett
Simpson, ’90, said at the course’s conclusion.
*“*We examined what distinguishes W&L from
large universities and other liberal arts colleges.
Through the course of our study we not only
learned how W&L came to be as we know it to-
day, but we came to a far greater appreciation
of our fine school.’’

A variety of guest speakers brought a special
perspective to the course material. Col. Beverly
M. Read, who has been associated with both
Washington and Lee and Virginia Military In-

 

 

stitute, spoke about the relationship between the
two schools. Frank A. Parsons, ’54, coordinator
of capital planning at W&L, taught the students
about the football cheating scandal of 1954. A
panel convened to discuss the presence of
women students during the World War II

years. (The participants were three students of
that era—Alta Fowler, Gertrude Neff, and Jay
D. Cook Jr., ’43, now a professor of account-
ing—and G. Francis Drake, who taught romance
languages at W&L during those years.) Sanders’s
father, Stuart Sanders, ’31, spoke about his stu-
dent days, and J. Holt Merchant Jr., ’61, pro-
fessor of history, and his wife, Becky, remi-
nisced about dating at Washington and Lee in
the late ’50s and early ’60s.

All in all, the class proved to be so successful
that Sanders plans to offer it again in the spring
of 1991. And if the past year is any indication,
he should have no trouble filling the available
places.

For the course’s final assignment, Sanders
asked the students to write not about W&L’s
past, but about its present. They were to define
the essence of Washington and Lee, the school
that exists ‘‘beyond the catalog’’ and the admis-
sions brochure. The resulting essays reveal a
variety of opinions and viewpoints, but there
were common threads—an appreciation of
Washington and Lee’s physical beauty, a re-
spect for its traditions, and, in the case of the
Seniors, a reluctance to leave.

Four of the students have given W&L per-
Mission to reprint their essays. The following are
their impressions and thoughts about Wash-
INgton and Lee, its history, and its future.

 

LEE JOYCE

Yes, Washington and Lee is nestled in the JANE LEE, ‘91, IS A
valley of the beautiful Shenandoah mountains.
Yes, it is also near Goshen Pass and the old
Maury River, where students fish, sunbathe,
read books with their eyes closed, and get lost in
the drowning peals of laughter or the sound of
rapid water shooting over rocks at every turn.
Yes, too, the campus is one of the oldest in the
country. Scotch-Irish settlers, General Lee and
Traveller, World War veterans, and even female
students have walked among Washington and
Lee’s majestic columns and stately red brick
buildings.

Washington’s and Doremus’s endowments
and Lee’s legacy of honor and the speaking
tradition are cornerstones of any good tour
guide’s dialogue, but beyond Washington and
Lee’s fine traditions, beautiful surroundings, and
competitive academic standards, W&L is far
more.

Many of these qualities can easily speak for
themselves. A W&L student will probably say
hello to you; you will see for yourself Lee’s
Chapel and Washington’s statue. No doubt, Bar-
ron’s Guide has given you a brief but revealing
look at the University’s tough scholastic stan-
dards, but no student guide needs to tell you
how to respond at that very first walk from the
‘‘Corral,’’ where your family has parked the car,
up through the manicured shrubbery, as you see
the Front Campus for the first time. No matter
how nervous you may be about your interview,
that sight will arrest your attention, and for a
peaceful moment will absorb your thoughts.

My heart still skips a beat as I drive into lazy
Lexington after a school holiday and first see
white columns through the trees. These are the
things that draw you to Washington and Lee.
We are fortunate to have inherited her beauty,
charm, and Southern ease, and we are dedicated
to preserving them. These eye-pleasing qualities
have led many students to make this university
their alma mater, but they are only tangible
signs of what W&L is really all about.

At first these superficial virtues make it easy
to forget your intended major of engineering,
forget about those silly military academies and
engineering institutes, big state universities, and
stodgy Ivy League schools, and rush to apply

EUROPEAN HISTORY
MAJOR FROM LITTLE
Rock, ARK. A
MEMBER OF KAPPA
ALPHA THETA SO-
RORITY, SHE WAS
PRESIDENT OF THE
PANHELLENIC COUN-

CIL LAST YEAR.

W&L 15

 

 

early decision to the school that has so quickly
and unexplainably captured your heart—
Washington and Lee.

What makes you return after an unexpected
two-year leave of absence, though, is simply—
the people. To thousands of alumni and nearly
2,000 students, Washington and Lee is a second
home. But W&L is not just a place, an address,
or a residence away from home. It is a living,
breathing community that grows with you and
supports you. W&L notices that you are there,
and not only realizes you have much to give but
expects you to.

As each student contributes to the University
community, W&L gives, too; you don’t always
know how or when, but it will. It may be a kind
word from a security officer, a knowing glance
from a professor, a handwritten remark from a
dean on your report card, a pleasant hello by
name from an administrator you’ve never met,
help getting 15 huge boxes shipped home when
school’s out and you’re already supposed to be
on the road, and always, always a patient ear,
to listen in the best of times and the worst, to
listen when it’s damned inconvenient, in the
middle of lunch or surrounded by stacks of
ungraded papers, but there will still be an ear.

True, Washington and Lee sounds like a
Hallmark card, but describing home always
does. Doesn’t it?

the shops that students patronize are privately
owned ventures, and the owners are prominent
in each. No Chess Kings or Limiteds, no
Macy’s, nothing so national, so. . .recognizable.
Alvin-Dennis, College Town Shop, places that
sell clothes made to last a lifetime (and then
some) thrive here.

. -W&L has built its reputation as a place
to learn. While class size soars at most schools,
the basic class has remained the same here: a
professor, 10, 15 students, books, discussions,
arguments, disagreements, interest. Papers that
professors, not teaching assistants or graduate
students, read. Discussions begin outside the
classroom about what’s happening inside the
classroom. Professors who are professors, those
who profess, disperse their knowledge on all
topics, not just what the textbook has to say.

When a professor asks a question, he or she
gets an answer. He does not lecture to an
auditorium filled with 600 of the least interesting
people you’d ever like to meet. He talks with the
students.

A student need not know the etiquette of the
Court of St. James to speak with his or her pro-
fessor. More often than not, she just knocks on
the office door and walks inside. And best of
all, we have professors who know their educa-
tion hasn’t finished. They may know their field,
but they still want to know more about some-
thing else.

Professors who care, who know when some-
one is absent, and who ask if anyone knows
where so-and-so is and if he or she’s OK—that’s
the key to W&L, what makes it different from
other schools. There are people here who care
about what you are doing and why. Ours are
teachers who don’t just stop at the classroom.
People who teach younger people what they
know the best way they know how. Perhaps a
better term would be ‘‘mentor.’’ Other places,
nobody gives a damn about who shows up for
class, just so long as some scholarly journal
publishes their article. Here, we care.

PAUL, ‘91, IS A

What indeed makes W&L unique? Why does
it have a national reputation? Why is it not just
like every other school with 1,600 homogeneous
students? W&L is a different, unique place
because it is a college in the old sense of the
word.

Lexington, as I discovered my first week
here, is a one-horse town. Nothing has changed
here since time immemorial, or so it seems. The
*frats’’ and ‘‘minks’’ still parade around the lit-
tle city, each in their uniforms: rats in gray
woolies or white ducks, minks in gray L. L.
Bean pullovers and khaki Duck Heads. Lex-
ington itself keeps the school unique: There are
no malls, no outside influences in the town. All

CLASSICS MAJOR

FROM BALTIMORE.

 

16 W&L

KELLLY. ‘90. WAS
A PSYCHOLOGY MAJOR
at WaL, A ROBERT
£E. LEE RESEARCH
SCHOLAR, AND A
MEMBER OF KAPPA

KAPPA GAMMA

SORORITY.

 

 

My experience at Washington and Lee may
not reflect the experiences of the average stu-
dent, but I hope that my classmates have been
as fortunate as I in their years here. I have had
the pleasure of working in the best department
at this university. The psychology department of
Washington and Lee is a model department in
many ways, some of which I will explore as they
have made my experience at Washington and
Lee what it is.

One thing that stands out about the psy-
chology department is its balance of teaching
and scholarly research. Although the pressure to
‘‘publish or perish’’ is in no way as pronounced
here as it is at larger institutions, the psychology
faculty are absorbed in research activity year-
round. This research does not take them out of
the classroom or make them unavailable to
students but rather enhances their lecture
material and adds another dimension to what
would otherwise be just another ‘‘classroom pro-
fessor.’’ The teaching styles of the faculty are
varied, but not one may be accused of “‘lectur-
ing’’ per se. The department knows that to be
involved in the material is really to learn about
the subject, and every effort is made to involve
the students inside and outside of the classroom.

The commitment to the students that I have
felt in the department will remain with me for
years to come and be foremost in my mind
when I someday sit before a classroom of under-
graduates. A student in psychology, whether a
major or not, is made to feel important and
worthy. Not once have I been made to feel that
I was taking up a professor’s valuable time. Not
once have I left Tucker Hall with a question still
unanswered.

The faculty exudes a spirit that says they are
here for us—the future researchers, the future
professors, the future businessmen and -women,
the future entrepreneurs. The psychology depart-
ment knows that we will be only so good as
what they have taught us and what we have
learned. In our future, we will reflect the depart-
ment and our experiences there.

One final point that I must mention is ac-
tually the entire reason my future looks as bright
as it does. I was not always a psychology major.
My first contact with the department came when

I was cleaning rat cages and filling water bottles
as part of my work-study assignment. From the
time I was eight years old, all I ever wanted was
to become a doctor. Luckily, Dr. [Leonard]
Jarrard noticed a spark of interest in me and
opened doors I never would have known existed.
Gradually he explained the research going on in
the labs and taught me many valuable laboratory
and research techniques.

I was not alone, however. The labs are
always open and the faculty always available to
explain the nature of their research. But most
importantly, the faculty are committed to offer-
ing interested students as many opportunities for
hands-on learning as they desire. I would like to
think that my friends in other departments have
had similar opportunities to do scholarly
research, to travel to academic and professional
meetings with professors to discuss research, to
explore fields not covered by courses listed in
the catalogs.

I have had the pleasure and honor of enjoy-
ing these opportunities and felt the faculty sup-
port of the students as have my student col-
leagues in the department. The opportunities we
have been afforded not only make us better
researchers and teachers for the future, but bet-
ter students for today. For we have learned how
to question and how to approach a problem,
and that poor results do not mean ultimate
failure. Though I have spent 90 percent of my
time in one department, I still graduate feeling
that I have been liberally educated, for I have
learned far more than just psychology from the
psychology department.

One may wonder why I chose to write about
this when assigned to address ‘‘the essence of
Washington and Lee’’—something other than
that found in the catalog. I hope there are
students from every department who feel as I do
about mine and would be willing to write such a
paper. But if these others are not forthcoming, I
want students, faculty, administrators, and
alumni to know my view, though limited to one
department in the University.

I may sound biased, and I am in the respect
that this has been my ‘‘home’’ and these pro-
fessors my ‘‘family’’ for four years. But these
sentiments have been echoed by others—I am
only the one to make them public. I could not
have had better role models in life, for what I
hope for my future is to come back to the
psychology department of Washington and Lee
and give back to a new generation of students
what my mentors and friends have given me.

W&L 17

GENIENNE MONGNO

GENIENNE, ‘90, OF
WESTFIELD, N.J.,
MAJORED IN JOUR-
NALISM AND HISTORY
AT W&L. SHE WAS A
MEMBER OF KAPPA
ALPHA THETA
SORORITY AND WAS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR OF

THE RING-TUM PHI.

18 W&L

 

My parents, my relatives, and most of the
other people I have talked to recently keep ask-
ing me if I am excited finally to be finished with
school. In fact, just an hour before I sat down
to write this essay, a professor’s wife asked me
the same question. When I told her I wasn’t
really looking forward to graduation day, she
paused and said, ‘‘I guess it is different here,
isn’t it?’’

Washington and Lee is different in a lot of
ways. Some of those differences are obvious and
some of them can only be fully understood by
someone who has been a part of the experience
here. W&L’s small size and rich sense of tradi-
tion are among the first things prospective stu-
dents and other visitors notice.

Although some people will claim W&L is too
small, I believe its small size provides opportu-
nities that far outweigh any disadvantages. At
W&L a student can be fairly confident that after
four years he or she will know a good majority
of the other students, if not by name, at least by
face. Classes are small and professors are always
willing to find time out of class to talk with
students and get to know them as more than
numbers in a grade book. I know it sounds like
a cliche, but it’s true.

Washington and Lee is steeped in tradition.

-Everywhere you look on campus you see this,

but it is most apparent in the Honor System and
the speaking tradition. The Honor System pro-
vides an atmosphere of trust that pervades all
aspects of W&L life. Students trust each other
and are trusted by professors and people in
town. When my friends visit me from other
schools they think I’m crazy to leave my books
lying around and my doors unlocked. They just
don’t understand when I tell them I schedule my
Own exams and that they are unproctored. All I
can do is smile when I tell them it really does
happen this way—and it works.

Talk of the speaking tradition usually re-
ceives the same kind of reaction. Since I come
from New York, where people are always speed-
walking their way to work and are too wrapped
up in the day’s problems to lift their heads and
look around, the friendly atmosphere at Wash-
ington and Lee came as a surprise to me at first.
It certainly makes a freshman feel welcome to be

greeted several times while walking to class. It’s
unfortunate that the system seems to be wani
but I don’t think students here will ever let it die
out entirely.

These are some of the things that make
Washington and Lee different. You can hear
about all of them on a campus tour. What
makes W&L unique, in my opinion, is the
combination of all these things. It’s a combina-
tion that gives Washington and Lee students an
intense loyalty and pride in their school and qa
common bond with each other that makes it im. —
possible for most students to leave W&L behind,
even after graduation.

The physical evidence of students’ W&L
pride is everywhere. Almost every car has a
W&L sticker, and if you look at any group of
students you can almost be assured that three-
fourths of them will be wearing a W&L sweat-
shirt, T-shirt, belt, watch, class ring, or other
outward sign of their association with the
University.

The W&L bond seems to transcend class and
fraternity lines. I know when I meet alumni that
no matter what class or fraternity they were in,
conversation with them will never be a problem.
And alumni a/ways want to talk about W&L. I
have had hour-long conversations with W&L
graduates on planes and in restaurants. When
they come back to campus they constantly in-
quire about classes, professors, and even parties.
Last alumni weekend, I overheard two 1956
graduates in the Co-op. One of them asked the
other what he had done the night before, and he
replied, ‘‘I was partying out at the pavilion. You —
should have been there. It was a blast!’’ It’s
comforting to know some things never change.

Of course, I know Washington and Lee has
its problems just like any other school. But
whenever anyone asks me abut W&L, I can
only remember the good things. I hope this
never changes. I could go on for another 20
pages but I think my idea of the essence of
W&L was summed up nicely by the 1908 editors
of the Ring-tum Phi, who said,

We all know that there is an extremely
important part of college life that has no
direct relation to the work in the classrooms
. . . -Ancluded in this are the traditions hand-
ed down from generation to generation of
undergraduates . . . .The main cultural value
of this side of college life is that it teaches us
how to ‘‘get together.’” W&L men love and
revere and swear by their a/ma mater because
they appreciate the unique quality of her
institution.

 

 

 

 

James G. Leyburn was named dean of Washington and Lee in
1947 after 20 years on the sociology faculty at Yale. He
offered the University a series of challenges which were part
of what came to be known as the Leyburn Plan—a blueprint
for strengthening W&L’s academic standards and making the
curriculum more truly liberal. In 1955 Leyburn stepped down
as dean and devoted his full time to teaching. He served as
head of the sociology and anthropology department until
1967 and retired from active teaching in 1972.

Serving
Others

by Wendy Wolford, ’90

By all accounts, the notion of community ser-
vice is back in style.

From President Bush’s ‘‘Thousand Points of
Light’’ to congressional calls for increased volun-
tarism, the ideal of service to others seems in-
creasingly popular these days. The 1990s has
been dubbed the ‘‘we generation,’’ and the label
seems appropriate.

At Washington and Lee, students seem more
involved than ever in the Lexington community.
They serve as big brothers and sisters to local
children; they tutor in the schools; they volunteer
their time at a local homeless shelter; and they
are coaches for area little league teams.

‘*There’s an incredible amount of community
service that goes on here at W&L, but it is just
never recognized,’’ says Kara Cunningham, ’90.
Cunningham and her fellow members of
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary
leadership fraternity which was founded at
Washington and Lee, decided it was time to
reward some of the students for their service ac-
tivities. So this past spring, they initiated the
Leyburn Service Awards.

The awards are named after James Graham
Leyburn, who served as professor and dean at
Washington and Lee for many years. Cun-
ningham says the prizes were established to
recognize those who demonstrate the ideals
Leyburn exhibited.

‘*‘We hope that the awards will be something
for individuals or W&L organizations to aspire
to,’’ Cunningham says, ‘‘although we are trying
to stay away from a strict definition of commu-
nity service.”’

Individuals and student organizations were
nominated by members of the faculty and ad-
ministration. The recipients were selected for
their initiative, creativity, and success in their
service endeavor.

The first group of Leyburn Awards were
given to Tim Place, ’90, of Endicott, N.Y.; the

W&L

 

19

 

 

20

Chi Psi fraternity; Chris Cerone, ’90, of Toms
River, N.J.; Jonah Glick, ’90, of Oradell, N.J.;
Scott Sigmund, ’90, of Potomac, Md.; Ben
Weinstein, 93, of Pawleys Island, S.C.; and the
organization Live Drive.

The idea of providing turkey
dinners to the poor appeared to Tim
Place one day ‘‘out of the blue.’’ He thought
organizing a service project in the name of the
University would be a good way to repay the
school for all it has done for him.

With the help of senior Tom Brubaker and
other members of the Independent Union, Place
wrote letters to University faculty and staff,
fraternity and sorority presidents, and dormitory
counselors, urging them to donate money to pur-
chase the Thanksgiving dinners. He also placed
signs throughout campus soliciting $2 from indi-
vidual students, giving the project the name
**Two for Turkey.”’

Having collected about $1,450, Place con-
tacted the Rockbridge Area Relief Association
for a list of needy families. With the donations
he collected, 35 of the 50 families on the RARA
list received a 16-pound turkey with all the fix-
ings from a local grocery store, personally
delivered by Place and Brubaker.

**Doing the project made me realize how
lucky I am,’’ says Place, who has also given his

_—

_

P &
~ ”

a

‘
_
’

'
_—— ' a
f er.
Dee
. ’ t
' af
a)
X e
f 3 -
J >

a o
/,

 

time to coach a little league basketball team in
Rockbridge County. ‘‘It brought smiles to peo-
ple’s faces.

“If for just one brief moment you can help
someone, it makes a difference in their lives.’’

Chi Psi was one of seven
fraternities that donated money to
Place’s Thanksgiving cause. According to Presi-
dent Chris Cerone, the fraternity has put a new
emphasis on the notion of community service
during the past year. ‘‘We decided to give
something back to the townspeople,’’ he laughs,
“*because we do hassle them with our parties
sometimes.”’

Last fall, Cerone approached the local social
service agency with the idea of adopting a family
to help out during the year. The family assigned
to Chi Psi has its share of problems, Cerone
says: ‘‘The father died, the mother has cancer,
and her only child has a learning disability. And
they can’t even get on welfare.’’ Chi Psi provid-
ed the family with turkey dinners at Thanksgiv-
ing and Christmas and gave them a gift cer-
tificate to a local store at Easter.

The fraternity has also been involved with the
Big Brother/Big Sister program and with the
local chapter of Habitat for Humanity. Chi Psi
Jonah Glick says volunteering for the low-
income housing project did not take much time

Recipients of the 1990 Leyburn Service Awards were, from left: the organization Live Drive (represented by treasurer Amy Aussiker);
Tim Place; Scott Sigmund; Jonah Glick; Chris Cerone; and Ben Weinstein.

W&L

 

 

 

“GAZETTE

 

Several members of the
Washington and Lee communi-
ty received prizes and awards at
the end of the academic year.

e John M. Falk, ’86, ’90L,
and Mary Alice McMorrow, ’90,
received the Frank J. Gilliam
Award, which is given to those
students who have made the
most conspicuous contributions
to life at Washington and Lee.

Falk was president of the Stu-
dent Bar Association and chair-
man of the the Contact lecture
series and was a member of the

Students receive honors, awards

Student Affairs Committee.
McMorrow served as head dor-
mitory counselor and was a
member of the Student Affairs
Committee, the Mock Conven-
tion steering committee, and
Omicron Delta Kappa.

¢ James W. Whitehead,
director of W&L’s Reeves Center
for Research and Exhibition of
Porcelain and Paintings, was the
recipient of the William W.
Pusey III Award for outstanding
service and dedication to the
University.

Whitehead joined W&L’s ad-
ministration in 1958 as director
of University relations and ad-
ministrative assistant to the
president. He served as W&L’s
treasurer from 1966 to 1980 and
as secretary of the University
from 1968 to 1987. He has
directed the operation of the
Reeves Center since it was
established eight years ago.

¢ Washington and Lee’s stu-
dent newspaper, the Ring-tum
Phi, presented its annual awards
for outstanding service to

Michael W. Holton, ’91, of In-
dianapolis, a dormitory coun-
selor and All-ODAC basketball
player; J. Keith Shillington, a
longtime professor of chemistry
who is currently on medical leave
from the University; the late
Todd C. Smith, ’83, a reporter
for the Tampa Tribune who was
killed last November while in-
vestigating drug trafficking in
Peru; and James V. Stagnitta,
head coach of the men’s lacrosse
team at W&L.

Dear Alumni,

It is with a sense of eager anticipation that I take this opportunity to
bring you up to date on the University’s alumni programs. My excite-
ment at taking over as director of alumni programs is matched only by
my respect and admiration for the formidable legacy of service, dedica-
tion, and loyalty demonstrated by those who have come before me. In-
deed, Cy Young, Bill Washburn, Dick Sessoms, and others have been
responsible for laying the foundation of the University’s exceptionally
strong alumni programs.

Washington and Lee has always been blessed with a strong group of
loyal and dedicated alumni volunteers, and the current 20-member
Alumni Board of Directors is no exception. One of the great strengths
that the Alumni Office and the University have is its hardworking
Alumni Board. I can assure you that each member of the board takes
his or her responsibilities seriously and, as a director, acts with the best
interests of the entire alumni constituency in mind.

The decade of the 1980s saw significant change and progress in the
area of alumni programs. A number of new programs are now in place,
including the Athletic Hall of Fame, the Alumni Career Assistance Pro-
gram, chapter recognition awards, and a formalized minority student/
alumni conference program. Yet, as our programs have evolved, I have
been struck by how appropriate the old adage is that says, ‘‘The more
things change, the more they stay the same.’’ Indeed, the alumni pro-
grams that have developed over the last few years have underscored the
long-standing commitment of this office and the University in general to
Provide appropriate service-related and recognition opportunities for the
University’s alumni. To quote from the mission statement of the Alum-
ni Office: ‘*. . .[T]he [alumni] program offers a range of direct partici-
Pant opportunities to alumni, either as service volunteers or as recipients
of continuing education program services and enrichment activities. ’’
We intend to maintain that tradition in the years to come.

As we look ahead into the 1990s, it is appropriate to return to the
mission statement for guidance as we go about setting goals for the
future: ‘The mission of the alumni program is to involve as many
alumni as possible in satisfying relationships with the multifaceted life
Of Washington and Lee University, and to bring about a clear under-
Standing of the University’s central purpose as a leading private educa-
“onal institution that present and future alumni generations will support

 

ote

actively, generously, and with surpassing pride. . . .In all cases the goal
is to put alumni, individually and collectively, in touch with their best
instincts about Washington and Lee. . . .’”’ The overriding goals of

the Alumni Office in the decade of the 1990s will stay true to the mis-
sion statement.

At its Oct. 11-13, 1990, meeting, the Alumni Board of Directors
and staff of the Alumni Office will reconfirm their commitment to
strengthen and support the University’s 83 alumni chapters and their
programs. In order for the University to achieve its goals over the next
several years, it is critical that we have strong, active, and supportive
alumni chapters throughout the country. The programs sponsored
through our alumni chapters provide the basis for personal contact with
our alumni and opportunities for the University to communicate prog-
ress, goals, and future needs. Among others, additional goals will in-
clude the development of programs and opportunities designed to
engender class unity among the currently enrolled undergraduate and
law classes, the ongoing development of the minority student/alumni
conference programs which have become so important in both the
unification of W&L’s minority alumni constituency and the recruitment
of minority students to Washington and Lee, and, while working
together with the Law Council, the development and implementation of
programs designed to narrow the ‘‘gap’’ between Lewis Hall and the
undergraduate community.

The opportunities for alumni involvement, recognition, and service
will, in all likelihood, continue to evolve as we plan for and react to
changing times and needs. One thing that will always remain constant,
however, will be the commitment of the Alumni Office to provide the
University’s alumni with attractive and viable opportunities to serve and
stay in touch with alma mater. We are your Alumni Office, and we
stand ready to help you in any way that we can.

And, finally, please stay in touch! My staff and I are eager to hear
from you and to keep abreast of your activities. We welcome your
Phone calls, letters, and personal visits. With your continued support
Washington and Lee will reach even greater heights in the 1990s!

Sincerely,

James D. Farrar Jr., ’74
Director of Alumni Programs

 

W&L 21

 

 

Musicians gather for ‘Sonoklect’ festival

Musicians from across the
country came to Washington
and Lee in May for Sonoklect,
a festival of new music.

The name Sonoklect was
derived from sono, the Italian
word for sound, and klect,
Greek for eclectic.

As it turns out, the event was
aptly named. ‘‘It’s amazing what
a diverse group of performers
and composers we had,’’ says
Margaret L. Brouwer, assistant
professor of music and organizer
of the festival. ‘‘They ranged
from the really far-out, radical
new musicians to those who are
influenced by jazz. It was very
valuable to see such diversity.’’

Eight composers-in-residence
attended the festival to hear their
works performed by nine profes-
sional musicians. In addition,
Brouwer had solicited scores
from undergraduates across the
country, and a student composi-
tion concert was also held.

**We received lots of positive
feedback from everyone—the
composers, the musicians, the
students, and even the au-
diences,’’ Brouwer says. ‘‘Many
of the people in the audiences
had misgivings about contem-
porary music—they were not
sure they would like it. But they
were very enthusiastic.”’

Rehearsals for the festival
were held at Skylark, Wash-
ington and Lee’s mountaintop
retreat and conference center.
Brouwer contends they couldn’t
have had a better setting.
**Everyone loved it,’’ she says.
**They could not believe what a
spectacular spot it was.’’

It’s unusual for a school like
Washington and Lee, which in-
stituted a music major only last
year, to sponsor a festival of this
sort. ‘‘The music faculty want to
do things like this to give the
students a good educational ex-
perience,’’ Brouwer explains.

Sonoklect received funding
from Washington and Lee and
from Meet the Composer’s
Composers Performance Fund,
with support from the National
Endowment for the Arts, BMI
and the Getty, M&V Dreyfus,
Metropolitan Life, Xerox, and
Dayton Hudson Foundation.

Brouwer is already looking
forward to next year’s festival.
**‘New music is a very specializ-
ed field, so it is helpful to be able
to meet other performers and
composers of new music. The ex-
change of ideas was invaluable,
and we hope to be able to repeat
it in- the future.’’

John Jacob named archivist
for Powell collection

John N. Jacob has been appointed archivist for the Lewis F.
Powell Jr. Collection at Washington and Lee’s School of Law. He

assumed the position July 1.

Powell, ’29, ’31L, who retired from the U.S. Supreme Court three
years ago, announced last December that he was giving his personal
and professional papers to W&L. The collection spans his career
on the Supreme Court and his tenures as chairman of the Richmond
School Board and as president of the American Bar Association.

The collection will be housed in a new addition to Lewis Hall,
the law school building. Construction began last summer.

Jacob has served as archivist and archivist librarian for the

—.

Undergraduate develops computer program

It’s a college student’s
dream—a computer program
that can create four different
types of bibliographies, write in
foreign languages, develop
outlines, and even make term
papers longer.

The program, which is called
**Thesys,’’ is the brainchild of
Mike Adams, a Washington and
Lee student from Roanoke.
Mike took the winter term off
last year and spent about 3,000
hours developing the program,
which is designed to work in con-
junction with the WordPerfect
word processor. He is now mar-
keting the software at W&L and
around the country.

Mike says he developed the
idea for Thesys while working as
a computer programmer at the
Army Institute of Chemical De-
fense in the Washington, D.C.,
area.

‘*‘My mother was in graduate
school and writing papers, and
I thought I could write a pro-
gram like the ones I had done at
ICD that would help her develop
outlines,’’ he explains. ‘‘Word-
Perfect has an outline feature,
but it’s very limited. Thesys will
indent everything correctly, and
if you add something to the
Outline it automatically re-
numbers it.’’

 

bibliographical entries and puts
them in standard form. But
students will probably be most
pleased with the program’s abili-
ty to make papers longer, by in-
creasing the space between lines.

Mike first became interested in
computers when he was 11 or 12
and discovered Atari computer
games. Several years later he got
his first word processor, and
then he was hooked. ‘‘I found
out the power of computers and
what they can do for you,”’ he
says.

Mike’s first love is languages,
not computer science; but the
two fields aren’t as different as
they might at first seem. ‘‘It all
involves the science of com-
munication,’’ he says. Besides,
he adds, ‘‘I’m a liberal arts
person. I like to dabble in
everything.”’

Mike’s ultimate dream is to be
a college professor. That interest
comes naturally: His paternal
grandfather was the late Lewis
G. Adams, who was a professor
of economics at W&L for many
years; his maternal grandfather,
Inslee E. Grainger, taught
romance languages at the
University.

Though he acknowledges
computer programming is a
more lucrative field than educa-
tion, he says, ‘‘I’m not a materi-
alistic person. I think that by
teaching, you give so much more
back to society.”’

Alumni directories
to be mailed soon

The Spectrum Publishing Co.
of Jermyn, Pa., publisher of
Washington and Lee’s 1990
alumni directory, has completed
the telemarketing phase of the
directory project.

The directory is now in the
production stages with delivery
expected in November 1990.

James D. Farrar Jr., ’74,
W&L’s director of alumni pro-

George C. Marshall Research Foundation in Lexington since 1977.
He has also worked for the State Historical Society of Wisconsin.
He holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of
Wisconsin and is a member of the Society of American Archivists
and the Academy of Certified Archivists.

Soon, Mike thought of other
features that would help students
preparing term papers. For in-
stance, Thesys also alphabetizes

grams, says it is still possible to
order directories. The toll-free
number is 1-800-327-4428.

 

ae

 

 

22 W&L

 

 

 

 

   

S - as se ay “ a/ae wy
ae att: Leo Pts

Some of the volunteers for the 1990 senior class pledge project assembled just before commencement exercises.

Pee

    

i i . . A . a
Ry hae - Ys :

Members of class of 1990 initiate Annual Fund pledge project

When they graduated from Washington and Lee in June, the
class of 1990 left an important legacy to the University.

As part of the ‘‘Senior Class Pledge Project,’’ nearly two-thirds
of the graduating seniors promised to make a contribution to W&L’s
1990-91 Annual Fund. Their combined pledges to the fund equaled
more than $5,100.

The pledge project was inaugurated last spring as a way of show-
ing students the importance of the Annual Fund, which supports
current operations at the University.

““We particularly want our young alumni to realize that small
gifts do matter,’’ explains Timothy G. McMahon, ’87, director of

the Annual Fund. ‘‘We hope that all alumni give to Washington
and Lee in proportion to their means.’’

Last spring, 20 senior volunteers approached nearly every
member of the class to solicit pledges for the fund. That personal
contact, McMahon believes, is what made the project so
successful—62 percent of the seniors made a pledge.

**Since this was the inaugural effort, we were very pleased with
the results, and we hope to continue the project in the future,’’
McMahon says. ‘‘Overall, only 38 percent of our alumni contribute
to the Annual Fund each year. The class of ’90 should serve as an
example not only to future senior classes, but to all alumni as well.’’

Todd C. Smith, ’83, honored posthumously by Livingston Foundation

The late Todd C. Smith, 83,
has received a citation from the
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foun-
dation of New York City.

Mike Wallace, correspondent
for CBS-TV’s 60 Minutes,
Presented the citation to Smith’s
Parents during a ceremony in

early June.

The Livingston Awards are
given annually to three jour-
nalists under the age of 35 for ex-
cellence in local, national, and
international reporting in print
or broadcast journalism. Smith,
a reporter for the Tampa

ee

Tribune, was killed in November
while investigating drug traffick-
ing in Peru.

Smith’s story ‘‘Colombia:
Among Assassins,’’ which was
published last September in the
Tribune, was a finalist for a 1990
Livingston award.

The Livingston Awards were
established 10 years ago by fash-
ion designer Millie Parnis Liv-
ingston in memory of her son,
Robert Livingston, publisher of
the journalism review More.

W&L

 

23

 

 

 

 

Members of the press speak with participants in the US-USSR meeting.

International meetings held on campus

Washington and Lee played
host to two major international
conferences this summer.

Eighty scientists from the
United States and the Soviet
Union gathered on the campus in
June for the Joint US-USSR
Conference on Environmental
Conservation for the 1990s.

As that conference ended,
nearly 150 economists from

Professor Howard Milton Colvin recognized in School of Law

around the world came to W&L
for the 18th annual meeting of
the History of Economics
Society.

The US-USSR conference was
one in a series of meetings be-
tween Soviet and American
scientists, and it was intended to
develop ways for the two coun-
tries to work together in tackling
environmental problems.

Howard Milton Colvin, who taught in Washington and Lee’s
School of Law from 1951 until his death in 1956, was recently

honored in the school—again.

After Colvin’s death more than 30 years ago, the Student Bar
Association erected a plaque and the law school faculty passed a
resolution in his memory. But during the school’s move from Tucker
Hall to Lewis Hall'in the 1970s, both plaque and resolution were
misplaced. Only last year, they were discovered by John M. Falk,
86, ’90L, president of the SBA, and the plaque was returned to its
rightful place on the walls of the law school.

244 W&L

When the conference ended,
the delegates had put together a
list of 22 recommendations.
They dealt with everything from
improving environmental educa-
tion in the schools to maintain-
ing healthy ecosystems. They
even suggested that their govern-
ments institute ‘‘green lines’’—
similar to the ‘‘red’’ phones used
in military crises—to discuss
urgent environmental matters.

The recommendations may
now be considered by policy-
makers in both nations.

The conference brought the
largest-ever group of Soviet en-
vironmental scientists to the U.S.
And by all accounts, the meeting
was one of the most successful,
too. Despite cultural and
language barriers—the scientists
often had to speak through
interpreters—the two delegations
seemed to get along extremely
well.

‘*We had more disagreements
among the Soviet scientists than
between the Soviet and Amer-
ican scientists,’’ said Aleksei
Yablokov, head of the USSR
delegation.

‘‘The most remarkable thing
was how easy it was for the
Soviets and Americans to work
together,’’ said Oliver Ryder of
the Zoological Society of San
Diego. ‘‘A lot of good ideas
about how the scientists in the
two countries might work
together in order to conduct
joint research, improve the en-
vironment, and catalog and save
endangered species were put
forward.’’

Meanwhile, the international
group of economists discussed
such topics as economic theory,
concept and image in economic
thought, money and investment,

Though he taught at W&L for only five years, Colvin was highly
regarded. The faculty resolution says that he ‘‘brought to Tucker
Hall a rare scholarship, a background rich with experience, a wit
equal to any challenge, and a heart so kind as to make him beloved

by all.”

The Howard Milton Colvin Scholarship, awarded annually to
a student in the law school, was established in 1974 by Colvin’s late
wife, Katharine O. Colvin, with gifts from their children, Katharine
C. Hart, John T. Colvin, and Milton Colvin, professor of politics

at Washington and Lee.

ol
and economics in China and
Russia.

Economists and educators
from the United States, Canada,
Europe, India, Australia, and
Japan presented more than 99
papers at the conference, which
was directed by S. Todd Lowry,
professor of economics and ad-
ministration at Washington and
Lee and president-elect of the
History of Economics Society.

Washington and Lee seems to
be an ideal location for such
meetings. ‘‘Our guests are
always amazed with the facilities
we oOffer,’’ says Mimi Milner
Elrod, assistant director of
special programs at W&L.
**They are particularly impressed
with Gaines Hall, which offers
so much space and privacy, and
with our dining hall.’’

Lowry says that a few of the
participants in the economics
conference stayed at the Morris
House, where they were ‘‘over-
whelmed.’’ The Morris House,
he says, ‘‘puts the real finishing
touch on Washington and Lee
hospitality.’’

The city of Lexington proved
to be very popular with con-
ference guests, as well. ‘‘Here
they are removed from a large
city, and there aren’t a lot of
distractions,’’ Elrod says. ‘‘It’s
just a pleasant community.”’

When they weren’t discussing
environmental matters or the
history of economics, par-
ticipants in the two conferences
even had time for a little
sightseeing.

**] like your country very
much,’’ Irina V. Kosakovskaya,
a botanist from Kiev, told the
Richmond News-Leader. ‘“‘I
went to Natural Bridge. So
famous a place!”’

 

 

 

re autis approve faculty promotions

Several members of the Washington and Lee faculty received pro-
motions at the end of the academic year.

Promoted to the rank of professor were Robert E. Akins
(physics); J. Kevin Green (accounting); Brian C. Murchison (law);
and Lyn F. Wheeler (accounting).

Promoted to the rank of associate professor, with tenure, were
William F. Connelly (politics); Timothy R. Gaylard (music); David
K. Millon and Judith A. McMorrow (law); James P. Warren
(English); and Cecile West-Settle (romance languages). Mario N.
Pellicciaro, who previously received tenure, was also promoted to
the rank of associate professor.

In addition, Ann T. Rogers was promoted to the rank of assis-
tant professor of East Asian studies, and Robert A. Strong, associate
professor of politics, was granted tenure.

W&L publications receive awards

Washington and Lee’s sports information department has won
four Citations of Excellence in athletic publications for the 1989-90
academic year. The awards were presented by the College Sports
Information Directors of America at their annual convention in June.

Washington and Lee’s fall, winter, and spring sports brochures
received first, third, and second prizes, respectively. The publica-
tions are distributed to the news media throughout the region and
to prospective students.

The winning brochures were written by W&L’s sports informa-
tion director, C. Michael Stachura, ’86, and designed by the Univer-
sity’s graphic artist, Denise M. Kuhn.

ae ge

‘ying

 

 

- me ; > -
— eciilie etal a) erm. See Pe at ie

|

 

iro

- <.
- »
ot an
Pe th neal

Student groups give to local charities

Student groups at Washington and Lee recently donated nearly
$7,000 to nonprofit organizations in Lexington.

The Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic, the Minority Student
Association, and the Independent Union raised $6,400 during
Springfest, a weekend of live music, games, and picnic activities.
The proceeds were contributed to Lexington’s Yellow Brick Road
child-care center and the Rockbridge Community Unit of the
American Cancer Society.

The IFC raised an additional $500 for the cancer society during
its fourth annual golf tournament in May.

**This is by far the largest single contribution we have received
from special events,’’ said E. Stewart Epley, ’49, president of the
cancer society’s Rockbridge unit. ‘‘The money raised by the student
groups will allow us to continue to offer our wide variety of pro-
grams at the local level. The students have provided invaluable
assistance to Our community unit, and we thank them.’’

Hunter Mohring, executive director of Yellow Brick Road, said
her organization will use the funds to provide scholarships for
children who might otherwise be unable to attend.

**Recently we have received several requests for care from families
who could not afford our basic rate,’’ Mohring said. ‘‘These funds
will allow us to help those families.

**There is no way to express the joy one receives in helping a
child. I hope the students realize the joy they are creating in these
children’s lives.’’

 

 

 

- 7 ‘ : a ~S .
“a . - wah 7 : .
- _ d r alee wagers a .
a - ~ 7 ae - Pie a ee oo , -
% une t ar ead anti Rs Sart *

Among the new members of the Washington and Lee faculty are (seated, from left) Paul D. Scofield, mathematics; David L. Howison, dean of
Students; Brian E. Richardson, ’73, journalism; (standing, from left) Scott E. Sundby, law; Yolanda D. M. Warren, library science, David A. Wirth,
aw; Valerie L. Hedquist, art, John C. McCoid II, law, Michael A. Anderson, economics, Sara J. Clausen, library science, Thomas H. Leech, German,
Art Goldsmith, economics, Elizabeth M. Scott, sociology and anthropology, and Michael J. Valentine, geology.

 

i

W&L 25

 

 

ail

Former student pleads guilty in hit-and-run death of Ashley Scarborough, ’92

Former Washington and Lee
student C. Blakely Comer pled
guilty in August to involuntary
manslaughter and hit-and-run in
the March 1989 death of W&L
freshman M. Ashley Scar-
borough.

Scarborough was killed about
2:10 a.m. on March 16, 1989,
when she was struck by Comer’s
car on Washington Street, near
Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. She
was reportedly on her way to a
party at Kappa Alpha.

Under a plea agreement,
Comer will serve six months in
the Rockbridge County Regional
Jail and five years of probation.
He was given five years for each
of the felonies, to be served con-
currently. Four and a half
months of each term were
suspended.

Comer will receive credit for
the two months he has already
served. He voluntarily checked
himself in to the Rockbridge jail
in June as a way of dealing with
his guilt, his lawyer said.

The former student could have
received a maximum sentence of
10 years in prison for involun-
tary manslaughter, a maximum
of five years’ imprisonment for
the hit-and-run charge, and/or a
$1,000 fine for each felony.

During the brief trial, Comer
told the court that on the night
of the accident he had attended
a party at Phi Delta Theta, of
which he was a member.

**I was at the party for ap-
proximately three hours, during
which time I consumed beer,’’
Comer said. ‘‘I do not know ex-
actly how much beer I had had,
but I acknowledge that I had had
enough beer to impair my abili-
ty to operate a motor vehicle.’’

He continued, ‘‘I admit that I
had had too much to drink and
was operating my vehicle
recklessly when I struck Ashley
Scarborough, a pedestrian. I
knew that I had struck a
pedestrian and that I should
stop. I was afraid, panicked, and
did not stop at the scene of the

accident. I deeply regret my
negligent acts and acknowledge
that I can never make proper
restitution to the Scarborough
family or to society.’’

According to the prosecutor in
the case, Comer went home
following the accident and told
three of his housemates that he
had hit someone and was not go-
ing to turn himself in. They ad-
vised him that if he did not alert
the police, he should replace the
windshield, which had been
broken in the accident.

Comer immediately drove the
vehicle to Washington, D.C.,
where he had it repaired. He then
returned it to his parents in
South Carolina.

The accident prompted an ex-
tensive investigation by Lex-
ington police that produced few
leads in the months following the
accident. Comer was not ar-
rested until November, when an
anonymous caller gave a tip to
Lexington police. Comer, who
was a member of the class of

1990, withdrew from Wash-
ington and Lee following his
arrest.

“1 am making this statement
voluntarily because I want to tel]
the truth in order to help me con-
front the guilt and remorse that
I feel,’’ Comer said during the
trial. ‘“‘I want to publicly
acknowledge my responsibility
and express my regret and sym-
pathy for the Scarborough
family.

**T accept the shame that I fee]
and the responsibility for the
pain I have caused the Scar-
borough family and my family
as a part of my punishment.”’

Comer’s housemates who
knew of his involvement in the
accident will not be prosecuted
as accomplices. One of them was
given immunity in exchange for
his testimony, and the other two
live out of state and cannot be
extradited to Virginia. All three
are Washington and Lee
graduates.

The University response

 

a?

Although no one at Washington and Lee has issued an “‘officia
statement regarding Comer’s conviction, President John D. Wilson
did speak of it during the University’s opening convocation, just
a week after the trial.

“‘Every year there are failures [in the Honor System],’’ Wilson
said. ‘‘A handful of us will succumb to weakness of one sort or
another and in the process will post a reminder that in human af-
Jairs there will always be occasional demonstrations of weakness or
failure: failure of nerve, failure of moral courage, failure to see the
right thing to do and to do it.

*‘T wouldn’t dwell on this occasional lapse in a universe of suc-
cess had we not all been reminded of it so sharply and painfully in
the last week of August. I think reading the account of the testimony
of Blake Comer’s friends in the Ring-tum Phi might have been the
most chilling experience some of us have ever had. How deeply and
sadly they failed him and failed Ashley Scarborough and failed the
University and all it stands for.’’

But, Wilson continued, ‘‘Did we fail them, in our turn, when
they matriculated here some five or six years ago? Did the seniors
of that time miss opportunities to help them to see what our stan-
dards and expectations really add up to? I honestly don’t know and
have little heart to try to sort it out. In fact, I believe too strongly
in individual responsibility and individual moral choice to try to con-
struct some elaborate chain of cause and effect.

“1 do know that there is a world of difference between the maturi-
ty and good judgment represented by the members of the class of
1991 and the naive, ingenuous, wide-eyed youthfulness of the enter-
ing class. And I do not hesitate to ask you to take a special hand
in helping these new people along. Let us be certain that we do not
miss the deeper significance of Ashley’s death or miss any oppor-
tunity to ensure that a similar tragedy never takes place here again.

“‘Let us agree, then, that this is your special task for the year:
genuinely to try to help our new students to fasten lastingly upon
the best of our traditions and values and expectation; in short, to
prepare them to succeed you, in full, when you leave here next June.
You cannot make a greater contribution to Washington and Lee than
to succeed in this undertaking.’”’

 

26 W&L

 

 

 

Professors receive grant
for plastics research

Two members of Washington
and Lee’s physics and engineer-
ing department recently received
a grant of $200,000 for a
research project on recycled
plastics.

James J. Donaghy and Ken-
neth E. Van Ness are coop-
erating with Rutgers University
on a project titled ‘‘Positron
Lifetime Studies of Recycled
Polymeric Alloys.’’

The project is funded by the
National Science Foundation,
the Plastics Recycling Founda-
tion at Rutgers, Virginia’s Center
for Innovative Technology, and
Washington and Lee.

Donaghy, Van Ness, and their
student assistants receive from
Rutgers samples of products
made from recycled plastics. In
the laboratory, they measure and
analyze the microscopic proper-
ties of these materials. The
resulting information will help
guide technology in the field of
plastics recycling.

 

 

 

**We subject the materials to
tests with positrons, scanning
electron microscopes, X-rays,
and so on to find out what’s go-
ing on at the molecular level,’’
Donaghy explains. ‘‘We’re in-
terested in the very basic proper-
ties of the material—what the
microstructure is like; the small
voids in the material.’’

The voids are indeed small—

about a hundred-thousandth of
a meter. To study such micro-
scopic properties, the researchers
use Washington and Lee’s scan-
ning electron microscope and a
‘positron lifetime appara-
tus’’—sophisticated pieces of
equipment that aren’t usually
found in undergraduate
laboratories.

Not surprisingly, the plastics

a

 

 

 

project has aroused some interest
among Washington and Lee
students. ‘‘We’ve had students
come up and ask to get into the
project,’’ Van Ness says. ‘‘But
there’s not enough space.’’ Nine
students worked on the research
during the 1989-90 academic
year, and another four during
the summer.

 

Farrar, Henneman, Patton, Church receive appointments in office of development

Several new appointments
have recently been made in
Washington and Lee’s Office of
Development.

ANNE S. FARRAR has been
named director of foundation
and corporate support. An
associate director of develop-
ment, she joined W&L’s staff in
1985. She has also served as ac-
quisitions librarian for the
Preston Library at Virginia
Military Institute and as director
Of research for the VMI Foun-
dation Inc.

In her new position, Farrar
ee

will be responsible for identify-
ing businesses and foundations
that are likely to support
Washington and Lee.

Farrar is a graduate of
Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

PENELOPE C. HENNE-
MAN has been appointed assis-
tant director of development for
research. She will be responsible
for coordinating research to sup-
port W&L’s fund-raising
programs.

A graduate of Smith College,
Henneman has worked at Wash-

ington and Lee since 1982 as
secretary in the office of the dean
of students and as recruitment
coordinator in the office of
career development and
placement.

PAMELA M. PATTON is
Washington and Lee’s new pros-
pect researcher. Since December
1988, she had been alumni
records coordinator in the
University’s alumni office.

In her new position, Patton
will conduct research to support
the University’s fund-raising
programs.

MELINDA D. CHURCH is
the University’s new develop-
ment writer. She will prepare
proposals, letters, articles, and
other documents to support
Washington and Lee’s fund-
raising efforts.

For the past year Church has
served as managing editor of Jn-
diana Business magazine. She
holds a bachelor’s degree from
the University of Washington
and a master’s from Indiana
University.

 

Above, from left, Patton,
Henneman, and Church

W&L 27

 

 

 

Wal-Mart, meet Lanes, and the Drive-In: A Summer in Lexington

During your four years at
WA&L, you could get by without
venturing far beyond your cam-
pus grounds. About the only
thing you can’t charge at the
bookstore or buy with points is
maid service. Virtually all classes
are within walking distance of
each other, and many students
remark—even boast—that they
have never even set foot in du-
Pont Hall at the far end of
campus.

If so many students are thus
unable to recognize the interior
of the University’s art gallery, is
it any surprise that still more of
them have never heard such local
names as Lime Kiln? Ben Salem
Wayside? Hull’s Drive-In?

Not that W&L students aren’t
curious, and no doubt we’re all
seized with wanderlust from time
to time. But when winter term
rolls around and your fishing
poles, golf clubs, and lacrosse
sticks have been laid to rest,
what is there to do?

If you have a car, you may
take a weekend trip to U.Va. or
Washington, D.C. Winter-break
excursions are even more ex-
travagant: Cancun and the
Bahamas have virtually become
the rule rather than the excep-
tion. Winter break here in Lex-
ington? You are to be pitied.

But an entire summer?

Talk about weird looks.
Friends shake their heads in
disbelief. Then I remind them
that I’ve just graduated. Even
professors I’ve come across this
summer have done double takes:
**What are you still doing here?’’

Because they know, too, that
sO many students associate Lex-
ington strictly with school and all
that comes with it: classmates,
roommates, fraternity brothers,
sorority sisters, perhaps Dad’s
old stomping grounds; the
lacrosse games, the parties, this
semester’s over, that one’s
begun. It’s as if everything has
its season, and the summer is not
a season many students associate
with Lexington. When school
season’s out, what’s left?

You’d be surprised. Little old
Lexington has changed a lot in
recent years. When I first came

28 W&L

 

Alice Harrell, ’90, (kneeling) aia Kath 'y Morrison, ’90, examine some of

 

 

 

 

the summertime bargains during a sidewalk sale in Lexington.

here four years ago, every
business convenience ended in
-way. You need look no farther
than the Maxway for Christmas
decorations. . .the Safeway for
candy and cookie mix in bulk
supply. . .the Subway for live
entertainment every week.
They’re all gone now, but
many are their replacements!
Now the -marts have taken over:
Wal-Mart and Kmart, complete
with snack bars, each in its
respective shopping square.
Looking for a particular album
or CD? You now have two stores
to choose from, Night Owl
Music and Record Corner, each
less than a year old. Even
Lloyd’s Fine Fast Food has ex-
panded its space to accom-
modate laundry facilities within
reach of its vast videorama.
Downtown Lex has seen two
pet stores come and go, and has
yet to land a decent flea market,
but its thrift shop is thriving, and
now you can trade in your old
paperbacks at The Bookery.
Remember all that clamor for a

Taco Bell? Students can now
satisfy their cocina craving at El
Cafe Mexican Restaurant.

But was there ever any doubt
in the minds of my skeptical
friends that my needs would be
met here in Lexington? Of
course not—why, even the
24-hour Stop-In has basic
necessities such as micro-
waveable burritos and TV
Guide. What my friends want to
know is: How do I expect to
keep myself entertained here
during the summer?

Two things that would be a
definite plus to your summer
stay in Lexington are: 1) a car,
and 2) friends who are
themselves Lexington residents.
Fortunately, I came into posses-
sion of both within the last year.

Until I took a part-time job at
Spanky’s Restaurant and Deli
my senior year, I knew only
students, professors, and other
people affiliated with the Univer-
sity. I’ve continued working at
Spanky’s this summer, and it is
through the friends I’ve made

there that I have really come to
know Lexington.

Without them I might never
have discovered Lexington’s own
public swimming pool, or J
would have missed out on
goings-on around town: local
bands performing weekly at the
Sandwich Shoppe or in a coun-
try meadow on the outskirts of
town; getaways to outdoor
places like Crabtree Falls or
North Mountain; horseback-
riding trails and a petting zoo
near Natural Bridge.

But many of these places are
inaccessible to someone without
a car or any friends to catch a
ride with. High-school seniors
participating in W&L’s Summer
Scholars program sorely missed
their cars. Except for W&L-
transported excursions to places
like St. Mary’s Gorge or Fast
Lanes Bowling Alley, they
basically were left to hoof it for
themselves to various places
around town: Sweet Things (a
homemade ice-cream shop),
Spanky’s, Woods Creek Park.

WA&L provided transportation
for them upon request to plays
or concerts at the renowned
Lime Kiln Arts Theater, but
drama productions have also
been going on right next door at
VMI and at the local high
school, sponsored by FAIR (Fine
Arts in Rockbridge).

Lexington, dead? Hardly!
Between W&L Summer Schol-
ars, VMI summer school, and
‘locals’? returning from other
colleges, there’s certainly no
shortage of students around
here. And you’ll find that the
W&L speaking tradition works
well in Lexington: Just return a
smile or initiate a friendly
greeting yourself, and Jack at the
P.O. or Kelly at the Palms will
soon know you by name, too.

Summertime is a good time to
‘*get local,’’ as Shawn Copeland,
°90, puts it. Adds Summer
Scholar counselor Mike Holi-
field, ’89: ‘‘Lexington becomes
another town and proves it’s not
totally dependent on W&L for
cultural activities. It’s a shame
most students never see this side
of Lex.’? —Alice Harrell, ’90

ae

 

    

Start a
Tradition

Al

 

 

 

 

 

Al The first in a series — our own 1990
glass Christmas ornament, in frosted
royal blue with white image and date.
We hope to have a new design each
year. 3 1/4" in diameter, in its own box.
$6.95.

A2

A2 Handsomely framed and matted
portrait of Lee with brass nameplate.
Cherry frame. Overall size is 11 3/4'"x
13 1/2". $42.95. Also available in 6
1/2"x 8 1/2", oval double mat. Cherry
frame. $30.00.

A3 “Old George” with a dramatic
stroke of lightning. Black and white
photograph on heavy Kodak paper by
Matthew J. Horridge ’89. Overall size is
16"x 20". Ready to frame. $12.95.

A4 Stunning photograph in full color
of the Colonnade from the terrace in
front of Lee Chapel. Taken, not with a
fisheye lens, but with an antique
camera, which slowly rotated as the
film moved through the camera. On
heavy photographic paper, ready to
frame. 54" long x 10" high. $80.00.

A4

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSES
LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA

Db. M 2s w HORKIDOS A5

 

 

 

A3

Perennial favorites by David Keeling,

‘73. Lithographs in color, double

matted and framed in gold-tipped,
mahogany-stained wood. Shipped to A6
you from the artist’s studio:

A5 Spring, framed. 2 sizes: 14 1/2"x
20 1/2", $55.00 or 38" x 27", $183.00.

A6 Summer, framed. 38" x 27",
$183.00.

A7 Autumn, framed. 16" x 20",
$55.00.
A7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B1 Staffordshire ware pitcher from
England. On the bottom is written:
“Made exclusively for Washington
and Lee University by Staffordshire.”
Portrait of Lee on one side and
Washington on the other. $32.95.

B2 12 ounce glass mug, 5 1/2" high,
with the crest and wordmark in blue.
Just right for a cool drink. $3.65.

B3 12 ounce highball with the crest
etched into the surface. $3.95 each or
$21.00 for a set of six.

B4 14 ounce etched double old-
fashioned. $4.95 each or $26.00 for a
set of six.

B5 Etched shot glass. $2.95.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

Was : ast
tN OSLO) NOLEF

SAT Tore

 

 

 

 

 

B6é Dress watch from OMAC with the
crest in full color on the face, and a
genuine leather band. Battery
powered. $39.95.
B7 Sport watch from OMAC all in
navy with the Wordmark in white.
Watch is metal and plastic with plastic
band. Battery powered. $30.95.
B8 Pewter baby cup in its own gift box
from Universal Pewter. Lead free, of
course, and will not tarnish. $14.50.
B9 Twenty-two ounce lead-free pewter
mug from Universal Pewter. Glass
bottomed. Highly polished,
non-tarnish finish. Individually boxed.
$24.95.
B10 A golf towel for the best. 100%
cotton velour towel from Devant, Ltd.,
with the University crest silkscreened in
color. 16"x 26" with grommet. $7.95.
B11 100% cotton velour beach towel
from Devant, Ltd., in a generous 30"x
60" size, with the crest in full color.
$24.95.
B12 Belt from Leather Man of
webbing and polished leather with

solid brass buckle. The University

crest is woven in navy and white.

Webbing choices: navy, red, or
khaki. Belt available in even
sizes 32" to 42". $13.95.

B13 Leather key ring from
Leather Man with the Univer-
sity crest in blue and white. $5.00.
B14 Webbing key ring from

Leather Man with navy and
white ribbon crest. Webbing
in your choice of navy, red,

or khaki. $3.50.

Se B15 Canvas bag from Devant

Ltd. in 100% cotton with navy
silkscreened crest and Wordmark.
Large size is 19"x 17". Dry clean. $14.95.
B16 Smaller canvas bag from Devant
Ltd. 100% cotton. 16"x 13 1/2". $13.95.
B17 Barbecue apron from Signature
Apparel in navy with the Wordmark
and crest in white. Washable 50/50
cotton/poly. One size, adjustable
neck. $16.95.

 

 

™~
Ea be sa i Nt i aici he ae

 

 

 

 

 

PE RA TN Yea aan,
; iiaed me /

om ies an nog's > adel
ee es ee

a, © » ‘ >
@ sigh ae ee ‘
i or a .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C1 Gatsby hat from Bristol with velcro
in back to adjust the size. Embroidered
crest . Colors: Navy or tan. $17.95.

C2 Poplin jacket from Bristol with
crest in color embroidered on left chest.
80% dacron, 20% combed cotton.
Unlined. Tan or navy. Sizes M, L, XL.
$40.95.

C3 Washington and Lee Generals hat
from Kozas with adjustable band and
embroidery. White with navy design
or navy with white. $9.95.

C4 Half zip pullover windbreaker
from MVP. 100% nylon in navy or
royal with white imprint. Sizes M, L,
XL. $19.95.

C5 The athletic logo embroidered on a
poplin cap from RTC. Royal or navy
poplin with white embroidery or white
with navy. Adjustable band. $8.95.

C6 White turtleneck sweatshirt from
Wolf with navy Wordmark
silkscreened, as well as W & L embroi-
dered. 50/50 cotton/poly in sizes S, M,
L, XL. $26.95.

C7 A view of the campus from Overly
Studios in 100% pre-shrunk cotton.
White with black image.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $11.95
C8 One-size-fits-all
nightshirt from Collegiate
Pacific. White with navy in
100% combed cotton.
$15.95.

C9 Shorts from Champion
in the famous reverse
weave. Elastic
waistband,two large
pockets. Grey only with
navy left leg imprint.
Sizes S, M, L, XI]. $22.95.
C10 Child’s sweatshirt
from Artex. 50/50
cotton/acrylic. Colors:
grey, royal, aqua and
red imprinted in white.
Juvenile sizes 4, 6, and
7. $12.95. Boys sizes
S(6-8), M(10-12),
L(14-16) $14.95.

C12

C13

 

wT e 4

aye

ae)4 err .
ae iat eka.

 

C11 The perfect baby shirt—overlapping
shoulder tabs— with the message
“Washington and Lee Class of ?” Avail-
able in white, pink, or blue in sizes 12 and
24 months. $5.95.

C12 Outer Banks brand mock turtleneck
from Signature Apparel. 100% combed
cotton in sizes S, M, L, and XL. Jade, royal
or grape with white imprint. $25.95.

C13 100% cotton madras-type plaid
shorts from Embassy in smart colors with
W & Lon the leg. Ask us what is in stock.
Even sizes 32 through 38. $12.95.

C14 Classic navy sweatshirt from Wolf
with Wordmark in white. 50/50 cotton/
poly. Sizes S,M, L, XL. $20.95.

C15 Shorts in plaid flannel from Embassy
with W & L on the leg. A variety of colors
mixes available.
Even sizes 32
through 38.
$14.95.

ee
(hy oo ae a
>» fie Sas

ee
+3
7 «&, 0 ie
x —- ee
ees ~
ee F S
ae
;
t

    
   
   
 
 
 

vie TONANDI 1

Tee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
in Old Virginia

by HENRY BOLEY «izss-90»

 

 

 

Intreduction by JAMES GRAHAM LEYBURN, Pro
Photographs by MICHAEL MILEY (1841-1918)

 

 

iyi Roe

OVERGINIA

be acto er
oi Bee ae ct) as Sr3

 

 

 

 

 

D2
D6

wi

Y))))

_ \ \

NARCISSUS

4 Nii}

DREAMING i)!

\y

) Mi
(

i
!

 

1
|
}
)
)

 

 

 

 

D7 D10
W&L University Bookstore Name:
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-8633 ——
Mon.-Fri. 8:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. — City State Zip

 

   

Item # Size

Please send no money
with oe order as prices

can change without warn-
ing. We will bill you, add-

Phone (Please!):

For orders over $5.00:
VISA MASTERCARD Exp. Date
Charge Card Number:

 

 

 

ing UPS and sales tax
where pi mae mge If you'd
rather order by phone or

youhaveaquestion, please Signature

ae sP eerie Ll fell od ald

9/90

 

call us.

 

 

 

Photos by Hinely. Design by The Design Group, Lynchburg, VA.

 
  
 

D1 Solid brass lamp by Heritage, 26" high
hand finished and sealed, with the Univer.
sity crest set in the base. A brass nameplate
for the recipient is available. Lamp shipped
from manufacturer. $275.00.
D2 Lexington in Old Virginia by Henry
Boley. This informal history, originally
published in 1936, includes two Pill chap-
ters about W & Lina delightful mix of —
historic fact and local legend. Illustrated
with 48 photos by Michael Miley, “Genera]
Lee’s Photographer.” Rockbridge Publish-
ing Co. Paper $16.95.
D3 Personal Reminiscences of Robert E.
Lee by the Rev. J. William Jones, D. D. Fine
reprint of an intimate glimpse of Lee by his
chaplain during the war and later at We L.
New introduction by Taylor Sanders, W & L
University Historian. LSU Press with US
Historical Society, $39.95 cloth (gold tipped
pages), $18.95 paper.
D4 Washington and Lee in Fiction b
William W. Pusey IIL, former Dean of the
College. Professor Emeritus Pusey has
written a monograph on fiction published
over the years set at W & L. Now in its
second printing. $2.00 a
D5 The Lees of Virginia: Seven Generations
of an American Family by Paul C. Nagel.
Nagel, author of Descent From Glory and
The Adams Women, brings his skills to bear
on another major American family, show-
ing how the Lees’ family spirit united them,
making them a force over two hundred
hi of U.S. history. Oxford University
ress, $24.95 cloth.
D6 Passion Play by W. Edward Blain “74.
This mystery, set at thinly disguised
Woodberry Forest school, involves thrilling
a characters you feel you know and
elpful insights into Shakespeare’s Othello
as well. Putnam, $19.95 cloth.
D7 Skinny Legs and All by Tom Robbins.
(Yes, he studied at W & L for a while!). This
is Robbins’ most political and most comic
novel to date, dealing audaciously with
current sensitive issues like race, politics,
art, religion, money, and lust. Bantam,
$19.95 cloth.
D8 Furors Die by William Hoffman, ‘53.
“An altogether satisfying book” according
to Dabney Stuart, dealing with the contrasts
of wealth and poverty, pressures to serve
and to succeed—a human, inventive,
ga: performance. LSU Press, $18.95
cloth. j
D9 Writing For Their Lives: the Modernist
Woman 1910-1940 by Gillian Handscombe
and Virginia L. Smyers. Smyers, a W &L
faculty member, has co-authored a lively
examination of extraordinary women at
forefront of literary experimentation in
early twentieth century. Some familiar:
Marianne Moore, Gertrude Stein, Amy
Lowell; others not so. Northeastern
University Press, $14.95 paper.
D10 Narcissus Dreaming, posta by
Dabney Stuart, W & L English professor
and editor of Shenandoah. Stuart's tenth
book is the work of a mature, accomp
artist, sensitive to psycholo ical nuance and
complexity, writing with wit and subtlety.
LSU Press, $14.95 cloth, $7.95 paper.

nit

7
=
¥

 

pcan
Annual Fund
sets new records

Washington and Lee’s 1989-90
Annual Fund set new records for
contributions to the University
for the fifth consecutive year.

The Annual Fund, which con-
sists only of unrestricted gifts to
be used for the University’s cur-
rent operating budget, raised
$2,060,048, which represents a
new record for W&L and a 2.91
percent increase over last year’s
fund.

The total number of alumni,
parents, and friends contributing
to the Annual Fund was 7,128.
That figure included 6,520
Washington and Lee alumni.
The number of parents who con-
tributed was 530—a 20 percent
increase over last year.

“‘The generous support of
alumni, parents, and friends of
Washington and Lee has always
been one of the University’s
greatest strengths,’’ said W&L
President John D. Wilson. ‘‘The
continued success of the Annual
Fund represents the solid foun-
dation on which this support is
based.”’

Gifts from alumni reached a
record $1,902,119, a 4.17 percent
increase from last year. The
largest increase in gifts came
from Washington and Lee’s law
school alumni, who gave a
record $292,411. That number
represents an increase of nearly
20 percent over last year. The
average gift by law school
alumni was a record $260, up
$36 from last year. The average
gift by undergraduate alumni
was $298, which also set a new
record.

A record number of major
donors contributed to this year’s
Annual Fund. Eighteen mem-
bers of the Generals’ Council,
who give $10,000 or more, con-
tributed a record $244,408 to the

 

 

   

ee
“te
i

 

- — oa

Old George restoration project making slow progress

Old George won’t be back for next year’s graduation, after all.

The 150-year-old statue of George Washington was removed from the top of Washington Hall last
spring for restoration. But Branko Medenica, the Birmingham, Ala., artist who is painstakingly put-
ting Old George back together again, says the process will take at least twice as long as originally planned.
‘“‘George is pretty rotten,’’ Medenica says. ‘‘He was essentially full of water which had been sucked
up from below.’’

Medenica has removed most of the paint from Old George, but in some places the paint is the only
thing holding the statue together. In those places, Medenica is stabilizing the wood by injecting it with
an epoxy mixture, which involves a time-consuming procedure. During recent years, concrete had been
added to Old George’s chest area, to anchor an iron rod which came to be his only form of support.
But Medenica says even that rod had settled. ‘‘If we had waited another year, Old George would not
have been restorable,’’ the artist says. ‘‘George was starting to sway in the breeze.”’

Even the statue’s head had become hollow. Medenica found two pieces of metal which were nailed
to the head, apparently to keep the water from seeping in from the top. He also discovered an old
pair of shorts stuffed in George’s head.

The restoration, which was originally thought to take six months, will now require at least a year.
After it is completed, a bronze replica will be made from the original wooden statue and will be placed
atop Washington Hall. The bronzing process will take another six to eight months. The restored wooden
statue will then be placed on display on the W&L campus.

Gary H. Dobbs Jr. of Birmingham is recording Old George’s progress in a series of photographs.
He plans to photograph the entire restoration process, the casting of the statue, and the final event
when the bronze replica is placed on Washington Hall. Dobbs is the father of the late Gary H. Dobbs
III, ’70, who taught at Washington and Lee from 1975 until his death in 1981.

Lorig, Lewis join office of career development and placement

Two new assistant directors have joined associate director of capital resources at Roanoke

 

fund. Gifts from the 589 Lee
Associates, who donate $1,000
Or more to W&L, rose to
$945,812.

The chairman of the 1989-90
Annual Fund was Mason T.
New, ’62, managing partner of
Branch Cabell & Co. in
Richmond.

es

Washington and Lee’s office of career develop-
ment and placement.

BEVERLY T. LORIG is responsible for career
counseling, career development programs, intern-
ship counseling and development, and publication
of a career newsletter. She holds degrees from
Georgia Southwestern College and the University
of Georgia and has been assistant director for
university career services at Yale University and

College.

RUTH LEWIS will help coordinate recruit-
ment at Washington and Lee, expand the recruit-
ment program, counsel students about job search
and placement, and assist with career and job fairs
and resume and interview training. She holds
degrees from Slippery Rock University, where she
later worked in the office of career services.

W&L 29

 

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

A fis ibe!

ae ee : OR Sage ahs om ee ey ie NA ee oe a ae | Sai shit 2 Cae celatees site eee Ee are ey . Was we!
Bachelor’ 's degree recipients ae behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Katherine C. Park, Robert K. Park Il, °61; Amy S. Bidwell,
Richard F. Bidwell, ’50; Susan M. Davis, Mark B. Davis, ’56, ’58L; Caroline B. Davis, William W. Davis, ’61; Kathryn T. Hardwick, Pearce D.
Hardwick, ’62; Reiss F. Wilks, Jay F. Wilks, ’°63L; Anthony J. Frank Jr., Anthony J. Frank, ’59; Susan L. Imeson, Thomas C. Imeson II, ’61;
Thomas E. P. Fox, John J. Fox Jr., ’°57; C. Hunt Niedringhaus, W. D. (Denny) Niedringhaus Jr., ’°66; Andrew S. Baur, Andrew N. Baur, 66,
Andrew H. Baur, ’37 (grandfather).

 

Ps pono
aed
es ae
ase
fo

 

 

 

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Prescott W. Sigmund, Donald W. Sigmund, ’59; Elizabeth M.
O’Connell, J. Richard O’Connell, ’56; Eric W. Hunter, R. H. Coolidge, ’54 (stepfather); Sterling H. Weaver II, Sterling H. Weaver, ’76L;
Caroline C. Jennings, John E. Jennings, ’65, William E. Jennings, ’42 (grandfather); M. Kent Suttle, J. M. Jenkins III, ’64 (stepfather); Virginia
B. Brent, Kaj M. Brent, ’58; G. Elizabeth Stutzmann, Rudolph J. Stutzmann, ’55.

se | =
ey Fi

 

res

Bachelor’ 's degree recipients ‘putts behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Rebecca L. aie Peter G. Reynolds Jr., 62; Mary H.
Hipp, W. Hayne Hipp, ’62; Nelson S. Teague Jr., Nelson S. Teague, ’58; Sarah T. Allen, G. Ashley Allen, ’65; Catharine L. Smith, Marquis M.
Smith Jr., ’57; John T. Touchton Jr., J. Thomas Touchton, ’60; William W. Tunner, William S. Tunner, ’56; Travis V. Blain, Daniel Blain Jr.,
’63; Philip M. Sherrill, Charles C. Sherrill, ’60; Kimberly A. Moseley, William G. Moseley, ’62; Cynthia F. Walton, Bruce T. Bullion, ’35
(grandfather), Gus B. Walton, ’64.

i

 

 

30. W&L

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

Law degree recipients with their alumni fathers (from left to right): Frank R. DuPuy III, Frank R. DuPuy Jr., ’28; Thomas J. Mitchell, Robert T.
Mitchell Jr., °65L; William R. Harbison, ’87, Richard T. Harbison, ’54; Rose Burks Emery (daughter of the late Martin P. Burks, ’32L); Loranne
E. Ausley, DuBose Ausley, ’59; Elizabeth C. Hocker, James D. Hocker, ’80L.

 

 

an ae ee
nd

Bi .) \ : | . | | ; |
Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left): David S. Daves, Mrs. Ralph Daves (grandmother, widow of Ralph
Daves, ’26), Donald W. Huffman, ’66L (friend); Maurice E. Purnell III, Maurice E. Purnell Jr., ’61; David A. Radulovic, Michael Radulovic, °51;
R. King Milling Jr., R. King Milling, ’62; Matthew C. Sackett, Henry M. Sackett III, ’64; R. Bland Warren, W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., 64 (step-

father); John C. Huffard Jr., John C. Huffard, ’58; Scott A. Kramer, Bruce S. Kramer, ’66; J. Carter Montague, F. Barrie Montague, ’56; Anne
E. Taylor, Willard S. Taylor, ’62; Kenneth S. Russell, John G. Russell Jr., ’59; Christopher D. Sorrells, Benjamin L. Chapman, ’64 (stepfather).

 

mgs gs
LP as

t =) : : :
ee ie : ; mat p . ¢ 7 .

 

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Mason Van Sciver, George H. Van Sciver, ’62; Siri L.
Holland, J. Gill Holland, ’58; James H. Starkey IV, James H. Starkey III, 62; W. Taylor Houck, Leighton S. Houck, ’70L; Gregory E. Euston
Jr., Gregory E. Euston, ’65; Christopher O. Smythe, David R. Smythe, ’49L; Robert B. Berryman, Hugh L. Berryman, ’54; T. Scott Brisendine,
Allen T. Brisendine Jr., ’°68L; L. Ashley Hoopes, Frank M. Hoopes Jr., ’58; M. Beckwith Archer, Raleigh R. Archer, ’61; Hannah S. Birney,
G. Adrian Birney, ’59; Nancy L. Hickam, Cecil W. Hickam Jr., ’60.

ee

 

 

W&L 31

 

 

32

Clockwise from upper left: WINSTON-

W&L

 

Alumni News

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  

EEK 4 ad

Ke

 

Chapters greet
first-year students

Washington and Lee alumni
across the country welcomed
new members to their ranks this
summer during parties to honor
incoming freshmen and first-
year law students.

The San Francisco, Winston-
Salem, Pensacola, Florida West
Coast, Greensboro, Tidewater,
Mobile, Southern Ohio, Tri-
State, Houston, Westchester-
Fairfield, Long Island, Key-
stone, Mid-South, Charlotte,
Washington, D.C., and Cum-
berland Valley chapters held a
variety of cookouts, buffets, and

   

ae

SALEM—Bo Brookby, ’72, and his son, Matthew, at a chapter barbecue; Bryan Brading, ’93, R
Sumner, ’94, and Hal Newell, ’93, at a chapter reception; WASHINGTON, D.C.—Roger Hildreth, ’88, chapter president Eric Myers, 82, and
John Sanders, ’84, at a pig roast; APPALACHIAN—Frances Vinyard and Rob Vinyard, ’70L, with President Wilson.

receptions in their respective
regions of the country to meet
the new students before their ar-
rival at Washington and Lee.

Warm-weather
gatherings

The summer months are
always a time for outdoor get-
togethers, and this summer was
no exception.

In Atlanta, alumni met for
golf and then a barbecue during
a ‘‘Minks’ Day Off.’’ Mean-
while, the Washington, D.C.,
chapter held a pig roast, and

  

ick

 

ow!

 

 

members of the Baltimore
chapter assembled for their an-
nual spring cocktail party.

For several chapters, the com-
petitive spirit reigned on the soft-
ball diamond, where W&L
alumni opposed graduates of
other colleges. The New Orleans
chapter took on their counter-
parts from Georgetown, while
members of the Southern Ohio
chapter went up against Univer-
sity of Virginia graduates and
Atlanta alumni defended W&L’s
honor against Sewanee.

Meanwhile, members of the
Detroit and New Orleans
chapters gathered for parties
with graduates of other Virginia

 

eee

colleges, and alumni in New
York joined forces with Hollins
graduates to attend the musical
Aspects of Love.

Other chapter events

President John D. Wilson,
Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, vice
president for University rela-
tions, and James D. Farrar Jr.,
°74, director of alumni pro-
grams, met with the Appalachian
chapter for dinner in June.

Meanwhile, former W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley,
50, ’57L, was the special guest
at the New York chapter’s an-
nual banquet.

Alumni News

 

David R. Long, W&L’s direc-
tor of planned giving, rep-
resented the University during
the annual banquet of the Upper
Potomac chapter.

Members of the San Diego
chapter got together for their
yearly sunset cocktail party. And
Dr. E. U. (Chappie) Conrad,
°73, Mrs. Conrad, and Puget
Sound chapter president Alan
M. Corwin, ’62, were the hosts
at a reception for the Alumni
College Abroad participants,
who were on their way to
Alaska.

 

New chapter
presidents

 

 

The following are new
chapter presidents:
Cleveland—Charles R.
McElwee II, ’78;

New York—Barry R. Dunn,
’82;

Middle Tennessee—Lee M.
Hollis, ’86;

Charleston, W.Va.—
Edward W. Rugeley III,
83, ’86L;

Gulf Stream—H. William
Walker Jr., 68, ’71L.

 

 

 

APPALACHIAN—John Beyer, Sarah Penny, and Joan Sharp, ’93, at the June dinner meeting; Linda Riley, chapter president Dick Penny, ’68,
and Sharon Penny; SAN DIEGO—James Pollak, ’32, Frank Price, ’36, ’38L, Kattie Stimeling, ’94, Carlin Jones, ’94, Bert Shafer, '39, Jenny
Mitchell, ’94, and Roger Myers, ’36, during the annual sunset cocktail party.

W&L

 

33

 

 

 

34

On Education and Merrymaking: A Conversation with Benjamin Franklin

In late May, Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees held one of its regular business meetings to discuss
the future of the University. Since this particular meeting was held in Philadelphia, the Board’s rector—James
M. Ballengee, ’*48L—decided it might also be well for the trustees to engage in a little local history. During a
dinner given for the Board by Mr. and Mrs. Ballengee, the rector presented a skit that he had written just for
the occasion. The presentation featured Ralph Archbold, who makes his living impersonating one of Philadelphia’s

most famous sons—Benjamin Franklin.

The skit’s text appears below. Much of it is based on Franklin’s Writings, taken from the 1987 Library of

America edition.

Dr. Franklin, we are indeed privileged to
have with us Philadelphia’s leading citizen,
and to see you in such a good mood,
especially considering that just last month we
observed the 200th anniversary of your
death.

If you would have guests merry with
cheer, be so yourself, or at least so appear.

After a number of years as a small
academy, we were named Washington Col-
lege in honor of General Washington, our
first substantial benefactor. I know that you
had frequent contact with General
Washington here in Philadelphia during the
Constitutional Convention in 1787, and I
wonder if you could tell us about any of your
meetings with our First Citizen.

Over the years there were many occasions
to meet in Philadelphia—many great
meetings. I recall one meeting especially—
just before that Constitutional Convention
a little more than 200 years ago. Late in May
1787, we had another problem. We had 13
states that acted as if they were 13 indepen-
dent nations; 13 states that went in 13 dif-
ferent directions. The United States—but we
would not long remain united unless we did
something about it. Yet a meeting that was
supposed to begin on the 14th of May had
not started, and it seemed as if it would never
begin, and I sat one week later with my
friend General Washington at my home here
in Philadelphia, and in my concern for lack
of action, I turned to him.

I said, ‘‘General Washington, what do we
do if we fail?’’ And George Washington
looked at me and he said, ‘‘I have never
failed.’’ I said, ‘‘Now General Washington,
I know I am 81 years old, and maybe one
or two little things I’ve forgotten, but I am
certain I remember a little incident at Fort
Necessity, and what about New York and
Germantown?’’

He said, ‘‘Oh, yes indeed, I have stum-
bled, I have made many mistakes, but I have
always picked myself up. I have always
learned from my mistakes, and I have never
failed, for it is only failure if you quit, and

W&L

I will never quit.’’ And he kept going. And
the determination and the integrity of George
Washington leading us at that Constitutional
Convention makes me proud to be a friend
of our first president.

Washington and Lee is an educational in-
stitution, and I know you think education
is important.

Genius without education is like silver in
the mine.

In your writings in the Pennsylvania
Gazette in 1749, the very year we were found-
ed, you set forth some proposals relating to
the education of youth in Pennsylvania. How
did you propose that this should come
about?

I said that some persons of leisure and
public spirit should apply for a charter by
which they may be incorporated with power
to erect an academy for the education of
youth, to govern the same, provide masters,
make rules, receive donations, purchase
lands and to add to their number, from time
to time, such other persons as they shall
judge suitable.

Well, Dr. Franklin, nothing at all has
changed from your proposals to our current
practice except that few members of our
Board are members of leisure, nor do we
have as much success today in governing the
youth for whom we hope we are providing
an education. How else did you describe your
‘‘Board of Trustees’’?

I said that the members of the corpora-
tion should make it their pleasure, and in
some degree their business, to visit the
Academy often, encourage and countenance
the youth, countenance and assist the
masters, and by all means in their power ad-
vance the usefulness and reputation of the
design; . . .that they treat the students with
familiarity and affection, and when they
have behaved well, and gone through their
studies and are to enter the world, zealously
unite and make all the interest that can be
made to establish them, whether in business,
offices, marriages, or any other thing for
their advantage.

What you called the rector of your
Academy, we now term our president. How
did you describe the qualities one should seek
in such an individual?

Well, I said clearly that the rector or the
president be a man of good understanding,
good morals, diligent and patient, learned in
the languages and science, and a correct pure
speaker and writer of the English tongue.

A number of our presidents have been
renowned for their speechmaking.

Here comes the Orator! With his flood
of words, and his drop of reason.

Dr. Franklin, I know that by 1753 you
had received honorary degrees from Harvard
and Yale, and in 1756 from William and
Mary, another venerable institution in the
Commonwealth of Virginia. Speaking of
Virginia, we believe that General Washington
and General Lee were the two greatest Vir-
ginians, but if one goes across the mountains
to Charlottesville, one hears those singing the
praises of Mr. Jefferson, who founded yet
another university in our Commonwealth.
You were the senior member of the commit-
tee to draft the Declaration of Independence
in 1776, yet Mr. Jefferson gets all the credit.
Tell us about this.

I recall when Thomas Jefferson came to
me with that Declaration of Independence.
He said, ‘‘Dr. Franklin, it’s finished.’’ And
I said, ‘‘Oh, Mr. Jefferson, this indeed is a
remarkable document. You do realize of
course that there will be some changes
necessary.”’

He said, ‘“Changes?”’ I said, ‘‘Yes, look
here, you have written, ‘Foreign mercenaries
have been sent to deluge us in blood.’ That’s
a little strong.’’ He took it out. I said, “Now
here, it says, ‘We find these truths to be
sacred and undeniable.’ Now, that’s true, but
might not self-evident better express what we
are trying to say?’’ And he agreed.

But when the document went before our
second Continental Congress it was changed
and changed and changed and changed and
changed until finally Thomas Jefferson was
very upset. He said, ‘‘It is no longer my

 

eS

_—

 

ee

document.”’ Then he stopped, and he real-
ized it could not be his, it had to belong to
every one of us, and the changes were
necessary if for no other reason than to make
each one of us a part of that document. And
when 56 of us pledged our lives and our for-
tunes and our sacred honor in signing that
Declaration of Independence, it of course
was a promise to all of you.

We know that both you and Mr. Jeffer-
son represented America at the Court in
France, and both became collectors and ex-
perts on wine. What more can you tell us
about wine?

He made wine to gladden the heart of
man. The Apostle Paul counseled Timothy
very seriously to put wine into his water for
the sake of his health; but not one of the
apostles or holy fathers ever recommended
putting water to wine.

To confirm still more our gratitude to
divine providence, reflect upon the situation
which it has given to the elbow. Animals that
have long legs also have a long neck so that
they can get at their drink without kneeling
down. But man, who was destined to drink
wine, must be able to raise the glass to his
mouth. If the elbow had been placed nearer
the hand, the part in advance would have
been too short to bring the glass to the
mouth, and if it had been placed nearer the
shoulder, that part would have been so long
that it would have carried the wine far
beyond the mouth. But by the actual situa-
tion, we are enabled to drink at our ease, the
glass going exactly to the mouth. Let us,
then, with glass in hand, adore this
benevolent wisdom—let us adore and drink.

Dr. Franklin, there are rumors that in ad-
dition to wine, you sampled some of the
other pleasures of the French Court during
your years there. Can you comment on these
rumors?

If you would keep your secret from an
enemy, tell it not to a friend. A slip of the
foot you may soon recover, but a slip of the
tongue you may never get over. Besides, a
gentleman is always discreet.

Washington and Lee has been known as
a place that graduated gentlemen.

Money and good manners make the
gentleman.

We have also turned out a great many
lawyers.

A countryman between two lawyers is
like a fish between two cats.

Dr. Franklin, you have made all of us
merry with cheer. I wonder if you have any
final thought for us.

The noblest question in the world is,
‘What good may I do in it?”’

 

iat

 

 

New Alumni
Board Members

 

Mason T. New, ’62
Branch, Cabell & Co.
Managing Partner
Richmond, Va.

  

J. Frank Surface Jr., ’60 Robert S. Keefe, ’68

Mahoney, Adams, Criser Deloitte & Touche
Attorney/Senior Partner Manager of National Markets
Jacksonville, Fla. New York, N.Y.

 

William J. Russell Jr., ’57
McBryan, Malone & Russell Inc.
Chairman of the Board
Reading, Pa.

Charles T. McCord III, ’63
McCord Exploration Co.
President
Bellaire, Texas

 

 

W&L

 

35

 

 

___ The Bookshelf____

  

Senechal

Stuart

Adventuring in the Chesapeake Bay Area: The Sierra Club Travel
Guide to the Tidewater Country of Maryland, Virginia and
Washington, D.C.

By John Bowen, ’51

(Sierra Club Books)

This is a comprehensive study of one of the richest estuaries in
the world and the historic land around it. The book is a guide to
sightseeing in the major metropolitan centers of Washington,
Baltimore, and the Hampton Roads area, as well as the rural coun-
ties, picturesque fishing villages, and principal islands in the Bay.

More than a guidebook, it relates the extensive history of a key
region in American history—where struggling colonies achieved
wealth and then helped found a new nation. It explores the ecological
changes, national and state parks, wildlife refuges, and sports ac-
tivities along the Atlantic flyway for both waterfowl and shorebirds.

This is the seventh book written by Bowen, 1983-84 governor
of District 760 and a former newspaper editor. He lives in Newport
News.

Walt Whitman’s Language Experiment
By James P. Warren, Associate Professor of English
(Pennsylvania State University Press)

This study combines intellectual history with literary analysis to
examine poet Walt Whitman’s language experiment during the period
from 1855 to 1892.

Whitman saw language as an expression of ‘‘national spirit,”’
Warren says, and he believed American English was the most ex-
pressive and poetic language in history.

In two parts, the book looks at Whitman’s theory of language,
developed in notebooks and unpublished essays, and shows how his
ideas evolved during his lifetime.

Warren joined W&L’s faculty in 1984.

Narcissus Dreaming
By Dabney Stuart, Professor of English
(Louisiana State University Press)

This, Stuart’s ninth book of poetry, is divided into four sections
which progress from a preoccupation with the self to a gradual ac-
ceptance of the world outside.

The author uses images both old and new—the tale of Hansel
and Gretel, baseball and contemporary movies—and combines
humor and sadness in this 64-page volume.

As the name suggests, Stuart is concerned with dreams and
awakening, with transitions and development. In the title poem, for
instance, Narcissus ultimately takes his reflection from the pool and
leaves the water behind.

Stuart came to Washington and Lee in 1965.

36 —W&L

 

A Fly Fisherman’s Blue Ridge
By Christopher Camuto, Instructor of English
(Henry Holt & Co.)

Eleven linked essays examine life around the streams in Virginia’s
and North Carolina’s Blue Ridge, where trout abound and fly
fishermen observe spectacular scenery.

Here, Christopher Camuto watches the changing of the seasons
and the landscape around him. But not all transformations are for
the better. Acid rain and modern development threaten this natural
resource, and environmental concerns figure prominently in the
book.

Camuto has written for Sierra, Trout, and Fly Fisherman. He
joined Washington and Lee’s faculty in 1987.

Churchmouse
By James Wamsley, ’50
(Diamond Books)

The former editor of Commonwealth magazine, James Wamsley
has spent the past decade as a free-lance travel and historical writer.
Now he’s decided to try fiction, and Churchmouse is his first novel.

The book is set in the city of Byrdport, which seems to resemble
Richmond, Va., Wamsley’s home. The Main Street Presbyterian
Church is threatened by expansion at neighboring Byrdport Univer-
sity School of Medicine, and it’s up to Charles Churchmouse, the
tiny resident of the church’s organ, to save the structure.

Charles rides in briefcases and beneath automobiles in an attempt
to hear the conversations of historical preservationists and politi-
cians. He and two fellow mice even learn how to play the church
organ to convince people the church is haunted and must be saved.

Still, though he participates in the human world, Charles knows
he must always remain separate. ‘‘I envy humans who, warm in their
beds, receive the blessing of dawn through sparkling glass,’’ he says.
‘*As for mice, we awake to the eternal gloom of the walls.”

The Sociogenesis of a Race Riot: Springfield, Illinois, in 1908
By Roberta Senechal, Assistant Professor of History
(University of Illinois Press)

Late in the summer of 1908, a race riot broke out in Springfield,
Abraham Lincoln’s hometown. During two days of violence, a white
mob burned the homes of black residents, destroyed the black
business district in town, and lynched two black men.

In her study, Senechal examines the causes of the riot and the
relationship of race and class. She concludes that although many
whites approved of the violence at first, eventually the riot divided
Springfield’s white population.

Senechal joined W&L’s faculty in 1988.

 

 

 

——

when several brothers helped and, besides, it was
lots of fun.

‘‘We need Lexington and Lexington needs
us,’’ Glick says, ‘‘so we should help them.’’

Cerone adds, ‘‘At first the brothers weren’t
too excited about community service, but now
it’s kind of contagious.”’

Cerone’s leadership in service projects was
one reason he won an individual Leyburn Service
Award.

‘*T like helping out other people, and it really
doesn’t take much effort,’’ he says.

‘‘Chris has done a lot as president,’’ his
classmate Scott Sigmund believes. ‘‘We call him
the ‘Community Service President.’ ”’

Cerone thinks community service has done
much to bolster Chi Psi’s image. ‘‘We hope the
house’s award will have an impact on us as well
as others next year.”’

For almost a decade, members
of Chi Psi have sponsored and organized
a biannual Red Cross Blood Drive on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Sigmund and Glick have
served as cochairmen of the event during the
past couple of years.

The event requires significant preparation,
Sigmund explains. He and his classmate had to
meet with local and regional Red Cross officials,
write letters to W&L faculty and staff encourag-
ing their participation, post signs around the
campus, and even visit freshmen in their dor-
mitory rooms to enlist their support.

Despite their efforts, Sigmund says they are
often disappointed by the student turnout.
“When you have only 130 people out of 1,500
donating blood, you wonder what’s wrong,’’ he
says.

Still, Sigmund and Glick have found their
work rewarding. Their most successful drive
yielded between 135 and 140 pints of blood.
“You don’t do something like this to get an
award,’’ Glick says. ‘‘But it’s nice to be
recognized.’’

On Dec. 1, 1988, Ben Wein-
tein’s father nearly lost his life in a car
accident. ‘‘I owe society a lot,’’ Weinstein says.
*‘My father wouldn’t be here now if it weren’t
for a rescue squad.”’

Weinstein has decided to repay that debt by
joining Lexington’s volunteer rescue squad. One

night every week, he is on call from 6 p.m. to
midnight. He also serves a shift from midnight
to 6 a.m. every four days, and he puts in extra
time when it’s needed.

Weinstein gives about two more hours each
week to help clean the rescue squad building and
maintain the equipment. On several occasions,
some of his fraternity brothers have even come
along to help.

Weinstein finds his work with the squad
rewarding. ‘‘You get a high on yourself,’’ he
says, ‘‘because the faster the reinforcement, the
more your gratification, and the rewards are cer-
tainly immediate at the scene of an accident.’’

Weinstein believes his service with the squad
will also help him prepare for a career in medi-
cine. Last spring he earned his EMT (emergency
medical technician) certification, and he plans to
take more courses to become trained in dealing
with shock trauma. Last summer he also worked
for two volunteer rescue squads near his home in
Pawleys Island, S.C., before returning to the
Lexington squad in the fall.

Live Drive was the brainchild
of John Fialcowitz, ’91, who decided
that W&L students needed an organization which
would provide transportation to those too intox-
icated to drive.

Live Drive began with one van and a few
volunteers, who answered requests on a call-in
basis. In just its first year of service, the organi-
zation answered nearly 3,000 calls. It has now
grown to include almost 130 volunteers, two
vans, and a regular weekend schedule.

No matter where the students call from, Live
Drive picks them up and takes them where they
want to go. Demand is greatest during events
such as Fancy Dress and Student Activities
Board concerts.

**But with so much help, volunteers only
work a two-hour shift once or twice a semester,”’
says the group’s treasurer, Amy Aussiker.

**It’s funny,’’ Aussiker continues. ‘‘Live
Drive has become so important that President
Wilson called me one afternoon to make sure he
could have one of our vans for the day. The
president, imagine that!’’

Students have said that without Live Drive
they wouldn’t be able to attend parties in the
country or at Zollman’s, Aussiker claims.

**Hearing thanks from students is nice,’’ she
adds. ‘‘But being recognized by ODK is great.’’

 

 

W&L

37

CLASS

 

 

JUDGE M. F. HAYS has retired

from his insurance and realty com-
pany, which he started after serving as a high
school principal for more than 30 years. He lives
in Glendale, Ky.

WILLIAM L. FARMER is a retired

attorney living in Wilmington, N.C.
As a volunteer for the Retired Senior Volunteer
Program, Farmer gives legal advice to senior
citizens. He practiced law in Wilmington for 54
years.

JOSEPH W. MCDONALD continues to work in
his wholesale appliance business after more than
50 years. He lives in Memphis, Tenn.

CHARLES H. HAMILTON is a
consultant at Media General in
Richmond.

NOTES

Retired Supreme Court Justice

LEWIS F. POWELL JR. received
the sixth annual Professionalism and Ethics Award
from the American Inns of Court Foundation in
June. Powell lives in Washington, D.C.

MILTON L. HARRIS has re-

tired from practicing internal
medicine in Baton Rouge, La. He spends his time
reading, playing golf, traveling, and doing
volunteer medical and civic work.

WILLIE B. MIDDLETON JR. has retired from
his law practice after 52 years. He is still active
in banking, however, and is chairman of the board
of a small bank in Plaquemine, La.

PHILIP J. SERAPHINE has retired from work
in advertising and real estate. He lives in
Cockeysville, Md.

  
  
   
 
   
 
   

ae
WILLIAM W. FOWLKES practic
law in San Antonio, Texas. __

W. G. WIGLESWORTH JR. of Cynthiana, Ky.
is developing a wildlife refuge, ‘‘Quiet Trails.””
is also doing research with sheep, cattle, crops, ¢
integrated pest control. |

JAMES S. WOODS has been active in amate

radio for 62 years. He operates K4JB in Sun C
West, Ariz. ae

ted -.
a
erg

LEWIS D. WILLIAMS is a cons
tant to the Futures Golf Tour, a
which requires him to attend ly
tournaments a year. He lives in Gaine:

JUTOALTTIAL

ville. ¥
J. OLIVER GLUYAS has moy

from Brevard, N.C., to Youngstoy
Ohio. He spends his winters in Venice, Fla., :
continues to work part time for Qantas Airwa
in San Francisco. 7

 

When considering an investment in the future of W&L, you need not
always reach for your checkbook. In this column | thought it might prove
useful to review the various assets you might use to make a gift and the dif-
ferent types of gifts that are possible.

Assets

1) Cash
2) Appreciated assets
such as common stock

3) Real estate
4) Life insurance
5) Tangible personal property

Depending on your personal financial situation, it might be more advan-
tageous to use one asset over another when considering a gift. Too, some
assets lend themselves to certain approaches better than others with varying
income and tax implications for you, the donor.

Planned giving focuses on four concepts that meet very different needs.
Apart from your interest in making a gift to W&L, do you want to minimize
your current federal income taxes? Do you need to fashion an arrangement
that will improve your income? Do you need to find a means of conveying
assets to your children? Do you want to minimize any estate tax that might
be due upon your death? It is possible to accomplish each of these very dif-
ferent needs through a gift to Washington and Lee. Indeed, wise philanthropy
goes hand in hand with sound financial planning.

Types of Gifts
1) Outright gifts

When you make an “outright” gift to W&L, you convey an asset without
retaining an interest in it. The gift has an immediate impact on the life of
the University and, percentage-wise, you receive the largest possible charitable
income tax deduction as a reward for your generosity. A gift to the Annual
Fund is an example of an outright gift.

 

Making a Gift to Washington and Lee

University

 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

2) Income-retained gifts

It is possible to convey an asset to the University while retaining the right
to receive an income from it for the remainder of your life and/or the life
of another person. Many kinds of arrangements are available through this
type of gift and each can be completely tailored to meet your particular needs.
You receive an income tax deduction based on your age, the specific plan,
and the amount of income you will receive. Upon your death, W&L will
receive the assets.

3) Income-generating gifts

The opposite of a gift in which you retain the income is one that generates
an income for the University. Usually constructed for a fixed life, this type
of arrangement transfers assets to your children or other beneficiaries at its
termination. Although you generally do not receive an income tax deduc-
tion for this gift, you create an important income stream for W&L while con-
veying assets to your children with virtually no tax implications for them.

4) Bequests

Through your last will and testament you can demonstrate your love and
commitment to your family and to your alma mater by including a provi-
sion to establish any of the arrangements outlined above. Since you can alter
your will at any time, there are no immediate tax benefits attendant to a
charitable bequest. Such bequests, however, provide significant benefits to
your heirs by minimizing their estate tax burden.

lf you would like to learn more about planned giving and how these basic
concepts can help you make a difference at W&L, please call the Develop-
ment Office at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

38 —- W&L

 

-

JAY H. REID JR. has retired on Hilton Head
Island, S.C. He maintains his primary home in

Bethesda, Md.

ERNEST B. WALKER JR. has sold his business,
Ernest Walker Press, and now works in real estate,
building homes for speculation.

CHARLES M. WILLIAMS, George Gund pro-
fessor of commercial banking, emeritus, at Har-
yard Business School, received Harvard’s Distin-
guished Service Award last June. He retired in 1986
after teaching at Harvard for nearly 40 years.

The President’s Distinguished Staff

Service Award at the University of
Houston-Clear Lake has been renamed in honor
of HUGH P. AVERY. Avery joined the Univer-
sity staff in 1973 as director of institutional ser-
vices and instituted the Distinguished Staff Ser-
vice Awards. He retired several years ago and lives
in Seabrook, Texas.

ROBERT P. INGRAM is publisher of Jngram’s,
a monthly magazine in Kansas City, Mo. He also
owns The Independent, a weekly publication, and
two Kansas City radio stations.

JOSEPH C. MURPHY has retired from his law
practice and lives in Somerville, N.J.

JOHN B. PEARSON continues to practice law in
West Hartford, Conn. He has been a member of
the bar for 50 years.

HERBERT C. SIGVARTSEN is retired. He lives
in Dunedin, Fla., and is active in the Military
Order of World Wars, the Retired Officers’
Association, and the Naval Reserve Association.

In June ROBERT C. HOBSON

received the Bar Center Award from
the Kentucky Bar Association for his years of ser-
vice to the bar. He lives in Louisville, Ky., with
his wife, Martha.

DR. G. WATSON JAMES III teaches full time
at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond.

ETHELBERT S. ROBY JR. is retired and lives
in Kenbridge, Va.

ALLEN T. MACAULAY is retired

after 31 years with The Record in
Hackensack, N.J. He plans to continue writing a
regular ski column and travel articles. He and his
wife, Betty, have moved to Smith Mountain Lake,
hear Roanoke.

After 45 years as partner, vice presi-

dent, and president of his family
business, JAMES S. HILL has retired. He will
continue to work occasionally at his company,
Which is a wholesale distributor of seeds, lawn, and
8arden supplies in four states. Hill lives in Cov-
ington, Ky.

JOHN H. MCMILLAN is retired and living in
Metairie, La.

C. LANE SARTOR is semiretired after 35 years
aS a geologist and exploration manager for Wheless
Industries Inc. in Shreveport, La.

VINCENT A. IGNICO is retired and
lives in Crystal River, Fla. He is the
father of four children.

WILLIAM J. NOONAN JR. is a land developer
in Pensacola, Fla. He serves as chairman of Pen-
sacola’s recreation board, a trustee of Pensacola
Junior College, and a director of Columbia
Theological Seminary. He and his wife, Margaret,
have 11 grandchildren.

EARLE PALMER BROWN has

been elected president of the National
Capital Area Council of the Boy Scouts of
America, which serves 48,000 youth members in
the District of Columbia and 16 counties in
Maryland and Northern Virginia. Brown lives in
Potomac, Md.

W. HANES LANCASTER JR.
retired in April 1989 and lives in
Johnson City, Tenn.

JAMES M. CLOWER has retired
after 25 years with General Motors
Corp. He lives in Newark, Del.

HENRY H. HICKS has been named

communications director of Citizens
for a Drug Free America. He lives in Daytona
Beach, Fla.

CHARLES R. LEMON is president of Plastics
One Inc., a company which provides custom in-
jection molding, cord sets, and custom com-
ponents for the medical appliances field. He lives
in Roanoke.

PERRY E. MANN JR. is assistant prosecuting at-
torney in Summer County, W.Va. He lives in Hin-
ton, W.Va.

WILLIAM ROY RICE has completed 40 years of
service at Columbia Gas Transmission Corp. and
has been promoted to counsel at Columbia Natural
Resources. He lives in Charleston, W.Va.

DABBS SULLIVAN JR. is public finance man-
ager at Crews and Associates in Little Rock, Ark.

THE REV. HENRY C. BARTON

JR. has retired as rector of Episcopal
Church of the Advent in Spartanburg, S.C. He
has served churches in Virginia Beach, Bir-
mingham, Ala., and Columbia, S.C., where he
now lives.

F. A. (BUD) HARE has retired as chief proba-
tion officer of the Richmond Juvenile and
Domestic Relations District Court. He was in the
juvenile justice field for more than 39 years. He
plans to continue volunteer work with Tuckahoe
Little League in Richmond.

FRANK LOVE JR. has received the Tradition of
Excellence Award, one of the highest honors given
by the State Bar of Georgia to trial lawyers and
judges. The award is given to those who have made
outstanding contributions to their profession, the
community, and the organized bar over a lifetime.
Love is an attorney with the Atlanta firm of
Powell, Goldstein, Frazer, and Murphy.

 

OLIVER M. MENDELL, senior vice president of
Chemical Bank in New York, has been elected
chairman of United Service Organizations of
Metropolitan New York. Mendell served as a
navigator with the U.S. Army Air Force for three
years during World War II.

LACEY E. PUTNEY was reelected to the Virginia
House of Delegates in November. Completion of
the term in 1992 will mark his 30th year of service
in the General Assembly. He lives in Forest, Va.

J. ARTHUR WOOD JR. has received the George
Washington Honor Medal for public communica-.
tions, which was presented by the Freedoms Foun-
dation at Valley Forge. Wood is an editorial car-
toonist for Farm Bureau News, published by the
American Farm Bureau Federation. He lives in
Rockville, Md.

JOHN E. KANNAPELL JR. and

JOHN S. MOREMEN, ’57L, plan to
publish a 200-page, color-illustrated cookbook ti-
tled Jack Daniels’ Real Barbecue Cookbook. The
book is due to be released next spring. Kannapell
and Moremen live in the Louisville, Ky., area.

WILLIAM H. KYLE JR. is taking a one-year
leave of absence from his business interests in Asia
to be the Orser professor of international manage-
ment in the College of Business at Montana State
University in Bozeman.

FRANK LOVE JR. (See ’50).

JOHN O. MARSH JR.,
former secretary of the U.S.
Army, has been named 1990
Virginian of the Year by the
Virginia Press Association.
He served four terms in the
U.S. Congress, from 1963 to
1971, and had the longest
tenure of any Army secre-
tary, from 1981 to 1989.
Marsh now practices law

ln
with the Richmond firm of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske,
Weiner, Beckhorn, and Hanes.

JOHN I. THOMPSON JR. is a contracts ad-
ministrator with the Pennsylvania Fish Commis-
sion. He lives in Bellefonte, Pa.

M.L. (MACK) HOLEKAMP is

a candidate for the U.S. House of
Representatives in Missouri’s 3rd Congressional
District. He is president of Delta Dredge and Pump
Corp. and lives in Webster Groves, Mo.

JAY W. JACKSON is a partner in the Hartford,
Conn., law firm of Jackson, O’Keefe, and Dunn.

JOHN D. MAGUIRE has been elected chairman
of the Association of Independent California Col-
leges and Universities, a position in which he will
serve as public spokesman for private education
in California. He will continue his regular post as
president of Claremont University Center and
Graduate School.

JERE N. MOORE JR. is executive staff director
of the Florida Department of Revenue. He lives
in Tallahassee.

ROBERT E. BRADFORD served as

chairman of the 1990 national Easter
Seals telethon, which raised $41 million in March.
He lives in Danville, Calif.

W&L 39

 

In July, President George Bush signed
a piece of legislation that is expected
dramatically to change the lives of more
than 43 million people in this country.

The bill was the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and Evan J. Kemp Jr.,
’59, calls it ‘‘the most far-reaching civil
rights legislation of the last 25 years.”’

Kemp was at the president’s side the
day the bill was signed. That was only
fitting—Kemp is, after all, chairman of
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, and he helped lead the ef-
fort that called for the bill’s passage.

The new law will affect nearly every
facet of disabled citizens’ lives. For in-
stance, it will prohibit firms with 25 or
more employees from discriminating in
hiring or promotion against people with
physical or mental disabilities after July
26, 1992, and will cover firms with 15 or
more employees after July 26, 1994. It
will also make it illegal to administer tests
that tend to eliminate disabled job ap-
plicants and will force companies to make
‘‘reasonable accommodations’’ for
disabled workers.

In addition, the law demands that
public places become more accessible. In
some cases, the doorways at restaurants
and stores will need to be wider, and
ramps must be provided for wheelchairs.
Car-rental agencies will have to provide

 

Evan Kemp, ’59, leads effort
in passage of disabled rights’ bill

 

As President Bush signs law barring discrimination against disabled, leaders of the move-
ment for the legislation look on. They are Kemp (in front at left), the Rev. Harold Wilke
(rear left), Sandra Parrino, and Justin Dart. Photo by James A. Parcell, The Washington
Post.

automobiles that have hand controls for
disabled drivers. And public buses will
need to be equipped with hydraulic lifts
for wheelchairs.

The Americans with Disabilities Act
has been a long time in coming, Kemp
believes. ‘‘There are a tremendous
number of people in this country who,
because of impaired eyesight or hearing
or other disabilities, are kept out of the
workforce,’’ Kemp says. ‘‘The United
States is the last major industrialized
country to adopt a policy of inclusion for
the disabled.’’

The new law has been criticized by
some in the business community as being
too expensive. (The White House
estimates the annual cost of compliance
at $1 billion to $2 billion.) But Kemp con-
tends it’s worth it.

‘‘Rach year the government pays
$169.4 billion in compensation to people
with disabilities,’’ Kemp says. ‘‘That
money doesn’t come from a fairy god-
mother; all of us share the cost. When
President Bush signed the ADA, he said
that it would bring the businesses ‘a
tremendous pool of people who will bring
to jobs diversity, loyalty, proven low tur-
nover rate, and only one request—the
chance to prove themselves.’ I think this
is a piece of legislation that will be very
pleasing to corporations and businesses.”’

 

 

40 W&L

   
 

H. R. (S(OHNNY) BRANDSTETTER is coor-
dinator of an economic aid program to Poland and
Romania. The program is sponsored by the cham-
ber of commerce of Styria, Austria. Brandstetter
lives in Graz, Austria.

PAUL M. MASLANSKY is a producer with
Warner Brothers Studios in Burbank, Calif. He
recently completed work on the movie The Russia
House, starring Sean Connery and Michelle
Pfeifer. The film will be released at the end of the
year.

ROBERT MCGEEHAN, head of the department
of international relations at United States Inter-
national University in London, has been reap-
pointed to the U.S.-U.K. Educational Commis.
sion (the Fulbright Commission). He is also chair-
man of its committee to select American scholars.
McGeehan lives in Oxfordshire, England.

NEWTON H. RAY is owner of Raywood Land-
scape Center Inc. in Danville, Va. He is in business
with his son, Newton Jr.

HENRY A. TURNER JR. was recently appointed
Charles Seymour professor of history at Yale
University. An expert on modern European
history, Turner has taught at Yale since 1958.

WILLIAM H. BARTSCH works at

the headquarters of the International
Labor Office in Geneva, Switzerland. His book
Doomed at the Start will be published at the end
of the year.

DAVID M. BERLINGHOF is senior vice presi-
dent and corporate operations manager of Cargill
Investor Services Inc., which is based in Chicago.
Last November he celebrated his 32nd year with
the company. Berlinghof lives in Wilmette, Ill.

M. L. (MACK) HOLEKAMP (See ’53).
JAY W. JACKSON (See ’53).

BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND has created a
series of paintings for a new Wachovia Bank
building in Greensboro, N.C. Redmond—who left
the field of banking 10 years ago to pursue art full
time—makes his home in Greensboro.

VICTOR R. BOND is employed with

McDonnell Douglas Space Systems
Co. in Houston. He provides engineering support
to NASA—Johnson Space Center in the area of
lunar and Mars exploration studies. Bond is also
university adjunct at the University of Houston-
Clear Lake, where he teaches astrodynamics. He
lives in Dickinson, Texas.

The U.S. Senate recently approved the nomina-
tion of FREDERICK P. STAMP JR. to serve as
a federal judge for the Northern District of West
Virginia. President George Bush nomi
Stamp, who has practiced law for about 30 years.
Stamp lives in Wheeling, W.Va.

Chester, Va., resident JOHN G.

FIREBAUGH has been with Life of
Virginia for 24 years. He works in data process
ing/information services.

THE REV. ROBERT D. MILLER is pastor of
Second Presbyterian Church in Louisville, Ky-

JOHN S. MOREMEN (See JOHN E. KAN-
NAPELL JR., ’51).

 

@

LACEY E. PUTNEY (See ’50).

ISAAC N. SMITH JR. has received the 1990 Spirit
of the Valley Award for exemplary community ser-
yice in West Virginia’s Kanawha Valley. He is
president of United National Bank and its holding
company, United Bankshares Inc., both of which
are based in Charleston.

CHARLES M. SWEZEY has been named dean
of the faculty of Union Theological Seminary in
Virginia. He is the Annie Scales Rogers professor
of Christian ethics at the Richmond seminary.

In April, EDWARD M. GEORGE

JR. was named president and chief
executive officer of Wheeling Dollar Bank in
Wheeling, W.Va. He was also appointed executive
vice president for loans of Wesbanco Inc., a multi-
bank holding company, and was named chairman
of the board of the Wheeling Area Chamber of

Commerce.

FRANK A. HOSS JR. is the chief judge of the
31st Circuit Court. He lives in Manassas, Va.

THOMAS D. WILKERSON is chairman of the
board of the University of Charleston in
Charleston, W.Va. He lives in St. Albans, W.Va.

JOHN G. KOEDEL JR. has been
promoted to vice president and chief
financial officer of National Forge Co. in Irvine,
Pa. He also serves on the board of directors of
Integra Financial, a western Pennsylvania regional
bank holding company. He lives in Warren, Pa.

H. DONALD MORINE was recently named presi-
dent of Property Ventures Ltd. and Allegheny
Development Corp., both of which are based in
Pittsburgh.

DAVID C. POTEET is associate professor of
history at New River Community College in
Dublin, Va. He lives in Blacksburg.

DR. H. HUTSON MESSER is a

gynecologist in Tallahassee, Fla. He
frequently participates in saltwater billfishing
tournaments.

DR. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN has been named
senior technical adviser to the Academy for Educa-
tional Development. He is also president of the
American Foundation for AIDS Research and
director of the Robert Wood Johnson Founda-
tion’s AIDS Health Services Program. He lives in
San Francisco.

ISAAC N. SMITH JR. (See ’57).

W. G. (HILLY) THOMPSON is a financial and
business consultant in Dover, Mass. He is also
President of Gillionville Inc., a farming and recrea-
tional club in Albany, Ga.

J. THOMAS TOUCHTON was recently elected
President of the History Museum of Tampa/
Hillsborough County, an organization formed to
Plan and build a local history museum for the
greater Tampa, Fla., area.

DR. WILLIAM J. FIDLER JR. is in
the private practice of pathology at
Methodist Hospitals of Memphis, Tenn.

ROBERT J. FUNKHOUSER JR. is with
Funkhouser Associates, a warehouse distributor

-

of equipment and accessories to the beverage in-
dustry in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states.
He lives in Avon, Conn.

JUDGE FRANK A. HOSS JR. (See ’58).

DR. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY prac-

tices pediatric medicine in Fishkill,
N.Y. As a hobby, he breeds and races thor-
oughbred horses. He has recently been reappointed
for a third six-year term to the Dutchess County
Board of Health.

District Judge JERRY H. HYATT has been
elevated to a judgeship on the Montgomery Coun-
ty Circuit Court. He lives in Gaithersburg, Md.

PERRY E. MANN JR. (See ’49).

JOSEPH B. MURPHEY is a geologist on the staff
of the National Sedimentation Laboratory in Ox-
ford, Miss. He and his wife, Rebecca, have two
daughters, Missy and Beth.

WILMOT L. HARRIS JR. has been

elected to the House of Delegates for
the Connecticut Bar Association and has recently
completed a year as president of the Greenwich,
Conn., Bar Association.

H. KIRKLAND HENRY JR. recently became vice
president of government relations for Household
International Inc. His responsibilities include
directing state and federal governmental relations.
He lives in Glenview, III.

GERALD L. KESTEN practices law in Arling-
ton, Va.

WARREN M. POSEY is assistant treasurer of
Armstrong World Industries. He lives in Lan-
caster, Pa.

JAMES W. REYNOLDS is director of research
at Wedbush Morgan Securities in Los Angeles.

DR. MICHAEL D. SUSSMAN is a professor and
the head of the division of pediatric orthopedic
surgery at the University of Virginia. Sussman
went to Moscow last April as part of a U.S. delega-
tion consulting on rehabilitation needs in the Soviet
Union. He has also done consulting work in
Armenia.

GLENN O. THORNHILL JR. is chairman of this
year’s United Way fund-raising campaign for the
Roanoke Valley. He is president of Maid Bess
Corp. in Salem, Va., and is a member of the Salem
School Board.

FREDERICK E. COOPER, former

vice chairman of Flowers Industries
Inc., formed a new corporation, Cooper Smith
Inc., in June. The company owns Smith’s Bakery,
a wholesale baked goods company serving the Gulf
Coast area.

JOHN P. EDWARDS JR. is moving to Richmond
after having been elected president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Old Dominion Electric
Cooperative. Old Dominion supplies energy to 12
cooperatives in Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware.

JAMES W. HALEY JR. is the Circuit Court judge
in Stafford, Va.

DR. THOMAS C. LEWIS is assistant professor
of anesthesiology at Vanderbilt University Hospital
in Nashville, Tenn. He is also a major in the
medical corps of the Tennessee National Guard.

JUDGE WALTER H. BENNETT

JR. is an assistant clinical professor
at the University of North Carolina School of Law.
His subjects are clinical teaching and professional
ethics.

ALFRED J.T. BYRNE has been appointed
general counsel to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in Washington, D.C.

THOMAS E. STOVER is president of the law firm
Stover and Stover. He and his wife, Sally, and their
children—Sara, 16, and Tom, 12—live in
Washington, N.J.

STEPHEN L. WILLSON has been appointed ad-
ministrative law judge for the Social Security Ad-
ministration in Charleston, W.Va. He will move
to Charleston from Roanoke, where his family will
remain for the 1990-91 school year.

THOMAS M. EDWARDS is vice
president and general tax counsel for
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. in Atlanta.

T. M. (TIM) HENRY led a group of 30 high-
school students to Moscow this summer to
distribute Bibles and meet with Russian citizens.
Henry lives in West Palm Beach, Fla.

FREDERIC E. BISHOP II is an ar-

chitect with Hunter Heiges Douglass
Rogers in Sharon, Pa. He also serves as a trustee
of Stey-Nevant Public Library in his hometown
of Farrell, Pa.

DR. WILLIAM C. DAVISON is assistant pro-
fessor of neurology at Northwestern Medical
School. He is also in private practice in Chicago,
where he lives with his wife, Dale.

BEN S. GAMBILL JR.., president of Braid Elec-
tric Co. in Nashville, Tenn., has been named chair-
man of the National Association of Electrical
Distributors. Gambill is also a director of the
Dominion Bank of Middle Tennessee and the Ten-
nessee Business Roundtable and a trustee of Mont-
gomery Bell Academy.

JOHN S. GRAHAM III has joined the law firm
of McGuire, Woods, Battle, and Boothe in Rich-
mond as a partner specializing in energy and
general business matters. He had been associated
with the Richmond firm of Browder and Russell.

DR. ROBERT L. HOLT of West Palm Beach,
Fla., presented a three-day lecture and surgical
demonstration course on periodontal surgery in
Munich, West Germany, last October.

ANDREW H. LUPTON recently acquired the
fourth largest company in the telephone message
service industry. He has 350 employees and 15
branches. Lupton lives in Baltimore.

THE REV. RANDALL L. PRIOR has received
a doctor of ministry degree in marriage and fami-
ly ministry from Eastern Theological Seminary in
Philadelphia.

WILLIAM S. WILDRICK is the national
marketing director for Koger Properties Inc. He
lives in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

LT. COL. JONATHAN E. ADAMS
has been named commander of the
139th Tactical Airlift Squadron in Scotia, N.Y.

CRAIG H. BARLEY is parts inventory manager
for Caterpillar Inc.’s worldwide parts distribution

W&L 41

 

 

Carol and Ben Grigsby, ’72,
Give Fraternity House New Life

 

 

As renovations begin on Washington
and Lee’s fraternities, another house in
Lexington is undergoing a renaissance of
its own.

The building on South Main Street
which in years past housed the Alpha Tau
Omega and Delta Upsilon fraternities is
now home to the ‘‘Seven Hills Inn,’’ a
bed-and-breakfast.

The owners of Seven Hills are Carol
and Ben Grigsby, ’72. They restored the
building last year and opened it in May
under the management of Jane Kelly
Grigsby, Ben Grigsby’s mother.

The inn offers seven deluxe double
rooms, all named after Rockbridge
County farms of the 18th and 19th cen-
turies. ‘‘Fruit Hill,’’ for instance, features
a private bath with Jacuzzi; ‘‘Hickory
Hill’’ provides access to the porch. Meals
are served in the former fraternity dining
room, and guests may watch television in
the basement ‘‘Chapter Room”’ lounge.

‘*The downstairs of the house hasn’t
really been changed structurally, but the

upper floors are very different,’’ Jane
Grigsby explains. ‘‘We had to add private
bathrooms, and of course the bedrooms
are much bigger than when it was a frater-
nity house.”’

Mrs. Grigsby says that her son decid-
ed to buy the house and convert it to an
inn because ‘‘he loves Lexington.’’ Ben
Grigsby, chief executive officer of
Barclays deZoete Wedd Government
Securities Inc., currently lives in Tokyo,
but ‘‘he would eventually like to retire in
Rockbridge County,’’ his mother says.

Though it has been in operation only
a few months, Seven Hills has been suc-
cessful. Not surprisingly, some of the
most enthusiastic guests are Washington
and Lee graduates.

‘‘One alumnus came by just because
he wanted to see the house,’’ Mrs.
Grigsby reports. ‘‘He was amazed. He
said, ‘It didn’t look anything like this
when I was a student!’

‘‘But he just loved seeing the
changes.”’

 

 

42

W&L

organization. He lives in Morton, Ill., with hj
wife, Gail, and their sons, Matthew, 19, and An.
drew, 14.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See ’65).

C. HOWARD CAPITO has joined Sovran
Bank/Tri-Cities as vice president and

the corporate lending area. He and his wife,

live in Greeneville, Tenn., with their two children

John, 11, and Katharine, 8. ;

ROBERT A. CASHILL is a management consy]-
tant for Saudi Aramco in Dhahray, Saudi Arabia.

RICHARD K. CHRISTOVICH has been elected
to the board of governors of the Louisiana State
Bar Association and is serving on the executive
committee of the International Association of
Defense Counsel.

BARRY J. LEVIN has been appointed vice chair-
man of the National Hillel Commission of B’nai
B’rith and has been elected to the board of the
North American Jewish Students Appeal. He lives
in Bala Cynwyd, Pa.

ROBERT H. MOLL was recently promoted to a
senior attorney position in the Office of the
Solicitor of the U.S. Department of the Interior.
He and his wife, Vicky, and their 8-year-old son,
Timmy, live in McLean, Va.

STEPHEN K. SHEPHERD has joined Acxiom
Inc. in Conway, Ark., as group director of systems
support. The company is one of the world’s largest
providers of computer-based services and other
related marketing and distribution support systems
to customers in the direct marketing industry. He
lives in Little Rock.

THOMAS E. STOVER (See 65).

HAROLD C. STOWE has joined CSI Group Inc.
as executive vice president for administration and
finance. The firm is based in Conway, S.C.

LEONARD A. BLANCHARD has

relocated from Dallas to Florida,
where he serves as partner responsible for opera-
tions training and corporate research and develop-
ment with Fun Rentals USA. The company spe-
cializes in the rental of recreational equipment in
resort locations. Blanchard plans to divide his time
between Sanibel Island and Key West.

J. RICKS CARSON received a 1990 Distinguished
Teacher Award from the White House Commis-
sion on Presidential Scholars. He also participated
in a recent seminar on French philosopher Blaise
Pascal sponsored by the National Endowment for
the Humanities. Carson teaches at Pace Academy
in Atlanta.

THOMAS M. EDWARDS (See ’66).
T. M. (TIM) HENRY (See ’66).

RONALD B. KESSLER is presiding judge of the
Seattle Municipal Court and is a member of the
board of governors of the District and Municipal
Judges Association of Washington.

M. KENNETH LONG JR. is running for his third
term as Washington County, Md., state’s attorney.
Long was first elected to the post in 1982 and has
served two consecutive terms as the county’s
prosecutor. He is a past president of the

State’s Attorney’s Association, vice president of
the Hagerstown Rotary Club, and a co
member of the Presbyterian Church of
Hagerstown.

 

DR. MICHAEL C. STEVENS practices psychi-
atry in Seaside, Ore.

JAMES F. BYCOTT has been named

environmental counsel for Ralston
Purina Co. in St. Louis. He is responsible for
domestic and international environmental and
energy law matters for Ralston.

RICHARD C. DAUGHTREY has joined Durr-
Fillauer Medical Inc. as an account manager for
Bradenton, Sarasota, and Venice, Fla. Durr-
Fillauer is a distributor of medical and surgical
equipment and supplies. Daughtrey lives in

Bradenton.

LT. COL. C. GILBERT FRANK is head of
neonatology at Fitzoinins Army Medical Center
in Aurora, Colo.

JEFFREY B. GROSSMAN has moved from New
York City to Tampa, Fla., where he is director of
financial planning for Seagram and Sons. He has
been with the company since 1970.

BRUCE R. MACQUEEN has moved from France
to Warrenton, Va., where he is a partner in Ber-
nard Krief Consultants USA, an affiliate of a
French management consulting firm.

WILLIAM F. RECTOR JR. is publisher of The
Daily Record in Little Rock, Ark.

DR. BRUCE S. SAMUELS practices internal
medicine in New Orleans. He is also an assistant
clinical professor at Tulane Medical School, where
he teaches senior students at an outpatient medical
clinic.

HAROLD H. CATLIN has been
elected president of the Jacksonville
(Fla.) Bar Association.

JEFFREY A. DAVIS is a partner in the Houston
law firm of Jackson and Walker.

DR. THOMAS E. REYNOLDS practices family
medicine in Culpeper, Va. He and his wife, Charla,
have two sons, Keith, 10, and William, 6.

CALVERT S. WHITEHURST is the public af-
fairs manager in the Washington, D.C.., office of
Textron Inc.

BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT serves in the Texas
House of Representatives, where he is chairman
of the public health committee. He is also an at-
torney in Houston, where he and his wife have
three children.

MICHAEL R. BROOKS is executive
vice president and general manager
of WJTV-TV, a CBS affiliate in Jackson, Miss.

JOHN E. LAWLOR III is an attorney with the
firm of Fisher, Tousey, Leas, and Ball in Jackson-
Ville, Fla. He had been an attorney for the Inter-
nal Revenue Service and an assistant U.S. attorney.
Lawlor and his wife, Joan, have three children,
Sarah, 15, Joshua, 12, and Mary, 8.

J. CHARLES LEE has left Wheat First Securities
and is now an account executive with NCNB
Securities in Anderson, S.C.

DR. MARTIN J. SCHOENBERGER practices
ophthalmology in New Orleans, where he lives
With his wife, Stephanie.

ee

PETER M. SOMERVILLE has been promoted to
the position of counsel in the legal division for the
Resolution Trust Corp.’s central regional office
in Kansas City, Mo.

WILLIAM G. BARKLEY has been
named judge of the Charlottesville
(Va.) General District Court.

DONALD D. EAVENSON JR. has been named
vice president of marketing and sales for Johnson
& Johnson’s McNeil Specialty Products Co. He
and his wife, Susan, have two children, Ryan, 6,
and Courtney, 2. They live in Yardley, Pa.

PETER J. FUREY is executive director of the New
Jersey Farm Bureau, the largest organization of
farmers in the state. He and his wife, Kris, have
three children: Colleen, 7, Dennis, 4, and Michael,
1. The family lives in Moorestown, N.J.

RAYBURN R. HAMMOND is employed with
Safeguard Business Systems, a record-keeping
systems distributor in Columbia, S.C. He and his
wife, Carolyn, have two children, Bess, 8, and
Philip, 4.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER has been promoted
to product marketing program manager for IBM’s
southwest area. He and his wife, Mary, and son,
Jeremy, live in Bedford, Texas.

JOHN R. KESSLING is vice president of Ketchum
Public Relations in New York.

J. JASON MATTHEWS just completed two years
of service as a U.S. State Department polit-
ical/economic officer in Havana, Cuba. While in
Cuba, Matthews reported on political, economic,
and military affairs. He is scheduled to return to
the Washington, D.C., area and will rejoin the
Soviet/Eastern Bloc Bureau for at least two years
before another overseas tour. He and his wife,
Suzanne, have a 3-year-old daughter, Alexandra.

THE REV. E. AUSTIN MCCASKILL JR. is ex-
ecutive pastor of Central Presbyterian Church in
St. Louis.

THE REV. FREDERICK E. ROBERTS was ap-
pointed pastor of Haw River (N.C.) United Meth-
odist Church in June. He is also an instructor at
Duke Divinity School. Roberts recently finished
two years as chairman of the psychological testing
and evaluation committee for the North Carolina
Annual Conference.

MICHAEL C. SCHAEFFER has been named soc-
cer chairman of the National Association of In-
tercollegiate Athletics Area VIII. He also serves
as a member of the NAIA top-20 ratings commit-
tee and helps select All-American players. Schaef-
fer lives in Fairmont, N.C.

JOHN F. SMITH works for Vision Quest as a
family services specialist. He lives in Williams-
town, N.J.

PAUL C. SUTHERN is executive vice president
of operations for Medco, a mail service pharmacy.
He lives in Basking Ridge, N.J., with his wife,
Marilyn, and son, Andrew.

W. EDWARD BLAIN, chairman of
the English department at Virginia’s
Woodberry Forest School, was chosen by the
Council for Basic Education as a 1990 CBE fellow
for independent study in the humanities. He was
one of 171 humanities teachers nationwide selected

for the honor, which provided a stipend for full-
time summer independent study. Blain used the
fellowship to study medieval drama in the United
States and England.

JAMES C. FERGUSON is an attorney with the
insurance defense firm of Fenton Law Firm OUC
in Edmond, Okla. He has two children, Kelly
Marie, 5, and Clay Glen, 2.

J. TIMOTHY KEARNEY was arrested in June
for protesting the appearance in Philadelphia of
former President Ronald Reagan. Kearney lives
in Philadelphia.

ALAN W. LEME is a senior systems analyst in
the automation engineering support division of the
Hartford Insurance Group. He lives in St. Man-
chester, Conn.

GREGORY N. STILLMAN has been elected to
a one-year term as chairman of the Virginia Beach
City School Board. He is a partner in the law firm
of Hunton and Williams and is a member of the
Virginia Opera Association board of directors and
the Rotary Club.

R. K. STUART JR. received a third patent for a
universal diaper adhesive used to assemble dis-
posable diapers and feminine hygiene products.
Stuart is a senior research chemist for Texas
Eastman Co., a part of Eastman Kodak Co. He
lives in Longview, Texas.

J. TIMOTHY THOMPSON is a first vice presi-
dent/branch manager with Shearson Lehman
Brothers in Alexandria, Va. He and his wife,
Catherine, have a son, John, 13, and two
daughters, Cate, 6, and Beth, 2.

JAMES W. AKRIDGE is a claims at-

torney for Fort Eustis, Va. He and
his wife live in Newport News and have two sons,
Jamie, 7, and Thomas, 2.

MILLARD I. BARGER is manager of force
assessment at BDM International Inc. in McLean,
Va. He lives in Silver Spring, Md.

ROBERT S. BONNEY JR. has been elected chair-
man of the criminal law section of the New Jersey
State Bar Association and has been certified by
the New Jersey Supreme Court as a certified
criminal trial attorney. He lives in Ocean City, N.J.

SAMUEL R. LEWIS has joined Stratcon Inc., a
Herndon, Va.-based provider of automation solu-
tions for legal offices. He serves as corporate
counsel and director of contracts for the company.

RALPH F. MACDONALD III is a partner in the
Atlanta law firm of Alston and Bird. He and his
wife, Nancy, have one child, Ralph, 2.

R. STEWART BARROLL, who

practices law in Chestertown, Md.,
was recently named to the Judicial Appointments
Committee of the Maryland Bar Association. He
is also general counsel for the Kent County Lodge
of the Fraternal Order of Police.

DOUGLAS W. DARBY is senior associate direc-
tor for marketing and member service for the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers in Wash-
ington, D.C.

HIRAM ELY III recently served as chairman of
a Kentucky attorney general’s task force on elec-
tion fraud, which issued a report to the Kentucky
General Assembly recommending numerous
changes in the state’s election laws. Ely was also

W&L 43

 

The camera moves in close on a cou-
ple kissing on a dark, sandy beach. A
romantic scene? Hardly.

‘‘Tonight,’’ the announcer says,
‘Delores had a few drinks, did some
crack, and ended up another tragic story.
Only she doesn’t know it yet. Drugs make
you forget.’’

The announcer concludes, ‘‘AIDS.
Another way drugs can kill.’’

It’s a sobering message, but Vic Galef,
’65, believes it’s an important one. Galef
helped produce this television spot and
others like it for the Advertising Council
and the National Institute on Drug
Abuse.

‘Most people understand that you
can get AIDS from sharing needles,’’ ex-
plains Galef, who is vice president for
marketing at Rorer Consumer Phar-
maceuticals in Philadelphia and the na-
tional campaign director of the Ad Coun-
cil’s drug-abuse campaign. ‘‘But they
don’t understand that there is another
connection between drugs and AIDS.

‘‘When they use drugs—alcohol,
crack, marijuana—it affects their
behavior. Very often their judgment is
clouded, and they have unprotected sex.”’

Market research convinced the Ad
Council that many youth were unaware
of this connection between drugs and
AIDS. The advertisements try to convince
young people not to mix drugs with sex.
And the projected audience is indeed
young—the spots are aimed at the 12- to
16-year-old bracket.

‘*We’ve found that by the time these
kids are 16, it’s very hard to change their
behavior,’’ Galef explains. ‘‘Besides, they
have already been saturated with infor-
mation about AIDS. We’ve got to get to
the younger kids. In fact, we even have
research to show we need to reach the 8-
to 12-year-olds.’’

The advertisements are carefully
crafted to interest younger teenagers. In
addition to the beach scene, other ads
show couples embracing in a car or on a
rooftop. Another of the public-service an-
nouncements, which is specifically de-
signed to play in movie theaters, uses a
horror-movie theme and shows such
characters as Freddie Kruger and Leather
Face. The scene then shifts to a doctor’s
office, where a young AIDS patient sits
waiting for medical attention. ‘‘One night
a year ago,’’ the narrator says, ‘‘ Vanessa

 

Vic Galef, ’65, and the Ad Council
combat the problems of drugs and AIDS

got high with some guy and forgot
everything she learned about preventing
AIDS. Now her life is the horror show.”’

The Ad Council is a volunteer
organization, funded by major corpora-
tions and advertising agencies. Celebrities
are frequently involved—for instance,
director Martin Scorsese produced the
latest drug-abuse series, and filmmaker
Spike Lee provided the voice-overs. Galef
is also a volunteer. He functions as the
client, overseeing the production of radio,
television, and print ads, and encourag-
ing media across the country to use them.

Galef began working for the Ad
Council two and a half years ago as a way
to ‘‘give something back to society.’’ He
acknowledges that his particular cam-
paign is challenging, that the problems of
AIDS and drug abuse are enormous. Still,
he believes the Ad Council has been ef-
fective in combating them.

‘*The statistics show that although
drug abuse is still increasing, it isn’t in-
creasing in the same proportion it was a
few years ago,”’ he says. ‘‘There’s no
question we can make an impact. We can
definitely make a difference.”’

So he doesn’t allow himself to become
discouraged. ‘‘Someone’s got to do
something about the problem. You have
to believe that your glass is half full and
not half empty. I have kids myself, and
drugs really scare me.

“If you convert just one, that one
could be yours.’’

 

 

 

44 W&L

chairman of the committee in 1988, when it issued
a report which resulted in a massive election reform
bill known as the Omnibus Election Reform Act
of 1988. Ely lives in Louisville, Ky.

DR. H. SPRAGUE EUSTIS JR. is a pediatric
ophthalmologist and director of ophthalmology
residency training at the Ochsner Clinic in New
Orleans. He has three children, George, nearly 1,
Ian, 3, and Olivia, 9.

D. SCOTT FARRAR, vice president of Dominion
Bank, has been named head of the bank’s commer-
cial real estate division. He lives in Troutville, Va.

JOHN R. HENZEL JR. has completed his doc-
torate in business administration-finance at the
University of Georgia. He and his wife, Judy, and
their two children, Joanna and John III, live in
Watkinsville, Ga.

C. F. (MONTY) HIGGINS JR. has been ap-
pointed city manager of Staunton, Va. He has
served the past four years as the city’s finance
director. Higgins and his wife have two children.

RICHARD A. HOOKER has moved to
Kalamazoo, Mich., where he is with the law firm
of Varnum, Riddering, Schnedt, and Howlett. He
practices in the labor and employment relations
area. Hooker and his wife, Jan, have two children,
Gillian, 12, and Andrew, 10.

DR. GARY W. SELDOMRIDGE practices oral
and maxillofacial surgery in the Lebanon, Pa.,
area. He was named a diplomate of the American
Board of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery in March,
and he recently had an article published in the
Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery.

PAUL A. SIMPSON practices law with Hirschler,
Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox & Allen in Richmond.
He and his wife, Debbie, have a 6-year-old
daughter, Elizabeth.

GREGORY M. SORG has opened his own law
practice in the rural New Hampshire town of
Franconia.

EDWARD E. FISCHER JR. is a na-
tional tax consultant. He lives in
Lafayette, Ind.

LOUIS B. HACKERMAN is a senior systems
analyst for NCUBE, a manufacturer of massive-
ly parallel computers. He works in the company’s
Reston, Va., sales office.

After 10 years of banking in Jacksonville, Fla.,
CRAIG F. HAMILTON has joined American
Transtech, a subsidiary of AT&T, as a national
sales manager. He lives in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

Modern Healthcare magazine has named
DEBORAH A. JOHNSON an “‘up and comer”’
in the healthcare industry. She lives in Louisville,
Ky., and is vice president of information systems
at Humana Inc.

CHARLES M. LOLLAR and his wife, Vivian, live
in Norfolk, Va., with their children, Christie, 10,
and Chip, 3.

ROBERT K. LYFORD is a commercial insurance
agent in Atlanta. He and his wife, Nancy, have
two children, Robert, 3, and Amy, I.

JEFFREY W. MORRIS has completed a semester
as a visiting professor at the Ohio State Universi-
ty College of Law. He has returned to his

tion as a professor at the University of Dayton
School of Law.

 

CLAYTON W. PRESTON has established an ar-
chitectural practice in Atlanta. Preston and Asso-
ciates Inc. specializes in new residential and com-

mercial remodeling.

DR. RICHARD F. RATHBONE practices fami-
ly medicine in Clinton, La. He and his wife,
Michele, have five daughters: Rebecca, 10, Sarah,
9, Mary, 7, Elizabeth, 3, and Anna, 10 months.

ANGELO B. SANTELLA, who is stationed in
Vicenza, Italy, has been promoted to the rank of
major by the U.S. Army. His daughter, Maria

Teresa, is 2.

JAMES D. UTTERBACK is a group vice presi-
dent of human resources at Rhone-Poulenc Rorer
Pharmaceuticals. He lives in Chester Springs, Pa.,
with his wife, Betsy, and their children, Jamie,
Christopher, and Jennifer.

PETER J. ABITANTE recently trav-

eled to Berlin and Tokyo on behalf
of the National Football League to set up press
conferences announcing football games in each
city. He lives in New York City.

WILLIAM A. CLEMENS works in the corporate
finance department of Legg Mason in Baltimore.
He and his wife, Cari, have a 2-year-old daughter,
Caroline.

THE REV. T. MARK DUNCAN is the pastor of
Westminster Presbyterian Church in Opelousas,
La. He has three children, David, 6, Joshua, 4,
and Cherith, 2.

THEODORE W. HISSEY III is director of
marketing for Pepsi-Cola Co. in Somers, N.Y. He
lives in Ridgefield, Conn., with his wife, Pam, and
three children, Teddy, 6, Tyler, 4, and Brittany, 2.

K. LEE HOWARD II, Sunday editor of The Day
newspaper in New London, Conn., taught an in-
termediate newswriting class at the University of
Connecticut last year.

GERALD L. MAATMAN JR. was one of a hand-
ful of American golfers invited to participate in
the 1990 St. Andrews Links Trophy at the Old
Course at St. Andrews and in the British Amateur
at Muirfield Golf Club in Gullane, Scotland.
Maatman was W&L’s first All-American golfer.
He is a partner in the law firm of Baker and
McKenzie in Chicago, where he practices litigation.

HENRY C. TAYLOR, a sales representative for
Dillard Paper Co., has received the company’s
President’s Council award, which recognizes the
top sales producers in each region. Taylor lives in
Atlanta.

KEVIN J. COSGROVE, formerly

employed with the Virginia Beach city
attorney’s office, has joined the law firm of Hun-
ton and Williams in Norfolk.

JAMES O. DAVIS III has won the 1990 Allen
Morris Award as the most promising first-term
member of the Florida House of Representatives.
Davis, a Democrat, lives in Tampa with his wife,
Peggy, and their 6-month-old son, Peter.

CHARLES M. FLOWERS JR. has resigned from
active duty in the U.S. Navy and moved to Co-
lumbus, Ga., where he is a building contractor.
He is also a pilot with a Naval Reserve unit sta-
ioned in Jacksonville, Fla.

MICHAEL F. FOLLO is assistant professor of
geology at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

WILLIAM L. HALLAM is a partner in the
Baltimore law firm of Gebhardt and Smith. He
specializes in the areas of bankruptcy and com-
mercial litigation. In his spare time, Hallam plays
with ‘‘Odz’nEnz,’’ a top-40 rock band.

A. CARTER MAGEE JR. and RICHARD R.
SAYERS, ’81L, have formed a law firm specializ-
ing in corporate and commercial matters. Magee,
Foster, Goldstein, and Sayers is based in Roanoke.

ROBERT K. MEHLER JR. lives in Winston-
Salem, N.C., with his wife, Catalina, and their
three children, Brian, 4, Kelly, 2, and Danny, 1.

THOMAS J. MORVILLE is an operations
manager in system control at Continental Airlines.
He lives in Houston.

DONALD P. NOBLE is a shareholder in the law
firm of McCarnish, Martin, Brown, and Loeffler
in San Antonio, Texas. He has also been certified
in commercial real estate law.

CHARLES C. SMITH has left a copy editing posi-
tion at the Kansas City (Mo.) Times and moved
to Munich, West Germany, where he is an editor
for Radio Free Europe.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK has joined Spiegel
Associates as director of retail development.
Spiegel is a real estate development company based
in Long Island, N.Y. Sondock lives in New York
City.

DR. STEPHEN D. TRIGG practices orthopedic
surgery in Jacksonville, Fla. He specializes in
treating the hands and upper extremities.

DOUGLAS K. WILLIS has been named branch
manager of IBM’s New Jersey west branch office
in Parsippany, N.J. He is responsible for IBM sales
to customers in the northern New Jersey area. He
and his wife, Nancy, have an infant son.

CHRISTOPHER B. BURNHAM, a

Connecticut state representative,
received his master’s degree in public administra-
tion in June from Harvard University. He earned
his degree in one academic year while maintain-
ing a full schedule as a state legislator. He com-
muted from Hartford, Conn., to Cambridge,
Mass., and finished with an A average.

After spending the month of May touring the
Soviet Union and East Germany, ROBERT B.
EARLE returned to receive his master’s degree in
business administration from Harvard Business
School in June. He has joined Deloitte and Touche
as a senior consultant in the company’s high-
technology consulting practice in San Francisco.

H. R. (CHIP) GATES III is manager of interna-
tional relations of FTCC, an international telecom-
munications company with headquarters in
Washington, D.C.

ROBERT S. LINK JR. is a pension trust officer
at Planters Bank and Trust in Staunton, Va. He
also serves as president of the local Kiwanis Club.
His wife, KATHERINE C. LINK, ’84L, has
become a partner in the Staunton firm of Nelson,
McPherson, Summers, and Santos.

DAVID E. MEYERS has moved to the Chicago
area, where he is director of business development
for Sweetheart Cup Corp.

STEVEN M. SMITH is employed by Maryland
Hospitality Inc. as vice president of operations for
food and beverage. Smith and his wife, Theresa,
live in Ellicott City, Md.

PATRICIA A. VAN ALLAN is general counsel
of Anadrill-Schlumberger in Houston. She is
responsible for the company’s legal affairs
worldwide. The company provides oil field services
during drilling operations.

SCOTT A. WILLIAMS has joined McKinsey and
Co., a worldwide management consulting firm.
Formerly with J. P. Morgan and Co., Williams
specializes in financial institutions. He lives in New
York City.

DR. ADRIAN WILLIAMSON III was voted by
the faculty of Tulane Medical School the outstand-
ing E.N.T. member of his graduating class. He
completed his first year as chief resident at Tulane
in June.

R. PARKE ELLIS is senior vice
president of Gillis, Ellis, and Baker,
an independent insurance agency in New Orleans.

ALLAN G. KING recently joined University Ven-
tura Inc., a venture capital firm in Houston, after
working in the mergers and acquisitions division
of First Boston Corp. in New York City.

HENRY D. LEWIS, an attorney in Washington,
D.C., is the author of two plays which have recent-
ly been performed in the Washington area. They
include The A Cappella Angels and The Cleans-
ing Waters. Lewis’s short story ‘‘Mean Spell,’’
which received a prize in the 1988 Larry Neal
Writers’ Competition sponsored by the
Washington Arts Commission, was published this
year in the commission’s first fiction anthology.

JAMES J. MALONE JR. is a member of the New
York State Society of Certified Public Accountants
committee on bankruptcy and insolvency. He is
a CPA in general practice and lives in Rockville
Centre, N.Y., with his wife, Eileen, and their three
children, Jamie, Alanna, and Shane.

PHILIP D. MARELLA JR. is vice president of
legal and business affairs for Worldvision Enter-
prises in New York City.

THOMAS M. MILLHISER has been named a
partner in the law firm of Hunton and Williams.
He works in the firm’s Richmond office and
specializes in state and local taxes and estate
planning.

JEFFERSON J. REITER is associate editor of
Dairy Foods magazine. He lives in Chicago.

VINCENT W. ROSPOND II is a partner in an
investment bank, Armada Investment. He and his
wife, Margo, and their son, Felix Brandon Kent,
1, live in West Orange, N.J.

GEORGE W. SANTOS II is with Manckin Corp.,
a commercial real estate development and bro-
kerage firm in Baltimore.

TRACY G. SAVAGE is director of development
and public relations at the National Cathedral
School in Washington, D.C.

RICHARD R. SAYERS (See A. CARTER
MAGEE JR., ’79).

Following four years as an officer in the U.S.
Marine Corps, R. JUDSON SCAGGS JR. earned
his law degree at William and Mary and now prac-
tices law in Roanoke. Scaggs is married and has
a 2-year-old daughter, Alexandra Marie.

W&L 45

 

 

Randy Flink, ’75, Hooping Across the Country

Like most American children, Randy
Flink, ’75, grew up playing basketball in
his family’s driveway. He never dreamed
that years later, basketball would be his
career.

Mind you, Flink is no Magic Johnson.
He loves the pick-up sport of his
childhood, which is still played in
driveways and playgrounds across the na-
tion. And apparently, tens of thousands
of other Americans love the game, too.

Flink is the cofounder and executive
vice president of Hoop-It-Up, a national
3-on-3 basketball tournament that raises
money for charity. With more than
50,000 participants in 20 cities, it’s one
of the largest amateur sporting events in
the nation—last year, Hoop-It-Up
brought in $300,000 for a variety of
charitable causes.

Flink was part of a small group of
Dallas businessmen who started Hoop-It-
Up several years ago as an annual fund-
raiser for Special Olympics. By its third
year, the tournament had grown to 8,000
players and raised $110,000 in a single
weekend. ‘‘It had gotten too big to be an
organization run by part-time volunteers
and American Airlines,’’ Flink recalls.
**So we decided to go into it full time with
the intention of creating 3-on-3 tour-
naments all across the country.’’

The weekend tournaments, which are
sponsored by Pepsi and Pizza Hut, oc-
cur in downtown metropolitan areas from
April to November. Players range in age
from the early teens to the 60s. ‘‘We ap-
peal to people who look at basketball as
a recreational sport,’’ Flink explains.
‘*We don’t allow professional or college
players.’’

At the Dallas tournament this year,
one team of women—all of them over the
age of 35—played under the name, ‘“‘I
Can’t Believe We’re Doing This.’’
Another team was composed of 50-year-
old former basketball players from the
Citadel, who flew to Dallas from the East
Coast for a mini-reunion. ‘‘Our tour-
naments are great,’’ Flink says, ‘‘for
former players, frustrated jocks, and
couch potatoes.”’

In planning the basketball weekends,
Flink and his colleagues strive for a
festival atmosphere, with games of
chance, prizes, and other family fun.
Flink recalls, ‘One newspaper columnist
in Dallas has dubbed Hoop-It-Up ‘the
Woodstock of basketball.’ ”’

 

 

In addition to planning tournaments,
Flink has designed a line of basketball-
theme activewear which will be marketed
in various Hoop-It-Up cities next year.
‘‘With more than 50,000 Hoop-It-Up
players, we have had a perfect test market
for our merchandise this year, and it has
gone over extremely well,’’ he says.

As part of the overall Hoop-It-Up ef-
fort, Flink has also created the country’s
most widely recognized charity auction of
basketball memorabilia. ‘‘I’ve auctioned
off everything from an autographed box
of Red Auerbach’s cigars to a basketball
signed by all of the University of North
Carolina graduates presently wearing an
NBA uniform.’’

Still, the tournaments themselves take
most of Flink’s attention, as he hopes to
expand them to more cities in the U.S.,
as well as to Canada and Europe.

In many ways, Flink and his career are
perfectly matched. With a master of
business administration degree and
several years’ experience in finance and
banking, he brings a solid business
background to his work. And then there’s
the recreational angle.

‘I’m a sports nut,’’ he admits. ‘‘I1’m
5’10’’ and was never a great basketball
player. But I’ve never stopped playing the
game.

‘*Hoop-It-Up is a great thing to be in-
volved with. I love what I’m doing.’’

 

 

46

W&L

MARK W. SCULLY has earned a master of arts
degree in international relations from the Paul H

Nitze School of Advanced International Studies
in Washington, D.C. He is nowa consulting ac-
tuary with Tillinghast, a Towers Perrin Co. in Ar- -
lington, Va.

DOUGLAS R. SHIPMAN of Williamsburg has
joined the staff of the Jamestown-Y orktown Foun-
dation as an education officer. His primary respon-
sibility is to teach museum education programs.

STEPHENSON B. ANDREWS is

taking a leave from the master of
business administration program at Columbia
University to expand his fine-arts consulting
business. He now divides his time between bases
in New York and London, where he assists private
clients with managing their art collections.

GUY ARCIDIACONO is an assistant district at-
torney in Suffolk County, N.Y.

T. STANLEY BARNES JR. is a corporate bond
trader with Metropolitan Life’s corporate invest-
ment group. He lives in New York City with his
wife, Tenley, and their son, Travis.

JULIA THIGPEN CRENSHAW is a partner in
the law firm of White, White, Askew, and Cren-
shaw in Hopkinsville, Ky.

CHRISTOPHER W. DAVIS works for Logonet
Inc. in Emeryville, Calif.

After 10 years of part-time college, JOHN E.
FOWLER II graduated from Bentley College with
a bachelor’s degree in accounting. He lives in An-
dover, Mass., with his wife, Violeta, and daughter,
Mary Louise, and works for Mast Industries as
a data base administrator.

KENNETH A. LANG is vice president in the cor-
porate finance group at Banker’s Trust Co. in New
York. He lives in Darien, Conn., with his wife,
Debbie, and daughter, Kathryn.

Architect T. CHASE NELSON is a lieutenant in
the U.S. Naval Reserve Civil Engineer Corps. He
lives in Washington, D.C., where he does free-
lance graphic design work for clients throughout
the country.

DAVID A. RANDALL earned a master of science
degree in information management engineering
from George Washington University in 1989. He
lives in Stafford, Va.

CHARLES F. RANDOLPH has joined the
Houston agency of Algemene Bank Nederland
N. V. as an assistant vice president and relation-
ship manager. He is responsible for corporate
banking clients and prospects in Houston and
Oklahoma.

F. BRADLEY SCHOLTZ is with L. F. Rothschild
in New York, where he works in the mergers é
acquisitions department. He lives in Darien,
Conn., with his wife, Julie, and their two sons,
Jeff, 3, and Scott, 1.

JAMES D. STANTON is employed by Aircoa
Inc., a hotel management firm. He is director of
sales and marketing at the Inn at McCormick
Ranch. Stanton lives in Scottsdale, Ariz.

DR. S. HARBOUR STEPHENS III is a resident
in urology at Bowman Gray School of Medicine-
Baptist Hospital. He and his wife, Greer, live m
Winston-Salem, N.C.

 

THOMAS E. BAKER JR. practices
labor and employment law in Corpus

Christi, Texas.

JOHN K. BUTLER works in the capital markets
credit group at Norwest Corp. He lives in Edina,
Minn.

GAINES H. CLEVELAND has left the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Covington and
Burling to become assistant U.S. attorney for the
southern district of New York. He handles federal
criminal prosecutions in Manhattan.

THOMAS L. EGBERT is a lieutenant in the U.S.
Navy. He has recently been on an exchange tour
with the U.S. Air Force, when he flew F-15 Eagles
at Langley Air Force Base in Virginia.

THEODORE G. FLETCHER is working at Dart-
mouth College while he completes his master’s

degree thesis.

MATTHEW C. GUILFOYLE has become a
shareholder in the Houston law firm of Davis and
McFall.

DAVID W. HADDOCK has formed a real estate
development company, Square Management, in
Memphis, Tenn.

DEANE A. HENNETT is an auditor in the
University of Virginia’s audit department.

DR. BRIAN K. HOLDAWAY is chief resident in
medicine at Georgetown University Hospital in
Washington, D.C. He plans to pursue fellowship
training in cardiology.

CAROL L. HOSHALL has joined the Wash-
ington, D.C., law firm of Tucker, Flyer, Sanger,
and Lewis, where she represents clients in Chapter
11 business reorganizations.

CARY C. MAUCK is director of alumni affairs
at St. Christopher’s School in Richmond.

GERALD I. MOYER III is a commercial mort-
gage banker with B. F. Saul Co. in Chevy Chase,
Md. He lives in Arlington, Va.

JOSEPH N. SEIFERT III is an account executive
with Price-Modern Inc. He and his wife, Bonnie,
live in Towson, Md.

CAMDEN W. SELIG is director of sports pro-
motions at the University of Virginia. He lives in
Charlottesville.

HAROLD E. THORNTON JR. is headmaster at
Woodlawn Academy in Chatham, Va.

KEVIN C. BECKER is cofounder
and managing partner of Harris and
Co., a commercial real estate firm in Belleair, Fla.

ERIC J. CAMPBELL has been promoted to vice
President of George Campbell Painting Corp., a
family painting and general contracting business.
He and his wife, Helen, live in Glen Cove, N.Y.

In May 1989 GEOFFREY R. B. CAREY grad-
uated from the University of North Carolina
School of Business with a concentration in finance.
He is employed with J. P. Morgan in New York
City as a portfolio manager in the private bank-
Ing group.

PAUL F. CHAPMAN is an assistant professor of
Psychology and neuroscience at the University of
Minnesota in Minneapolis. He and his wife,
Lynne, live in St. Paul.

BREESE M. DICKINSON is a real estate attorney
in the Baltimore firm of Venable, Baetjer, and
Howard.

PAUL N. FARQUHARSON is an associate with
the law firm of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske, Weiner,
Beckhorn & Hanes in Baltimore.

DR. THOMAS J. FRANKFURTH is in private
practice as a general dentist in Tampa, Fla.

JACK L. GOLDSMITH III is a clerk for federal
Judge J. Harrie Wilkinson in Charlottesville, Va.
Goldsmith will be a clerk for U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Anthony Kennedy during the court’s
1990-91 term.

G. RICHARD GRAINGER JR. has joined Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. as an account executive. He
lives in Tyler, Texas.

DAVID R. HARCUS is a financial analyst at Ford
Motor Co. He lives in Farmington Hills, Mich.

JEFFREY W. KNAPP graduated from the
University of Pennsylvania School of Law in May
1989 and is an associate with the Portland, Ore.,
law firm of Miller, Nash, Wiener, Hager, and
Carlsen. Last summer, he cycled from Portland
to Washington, D.C., via Lexington.

STEPHEN W. LEMON is a third-year associate
with Morris, Manning, and Martin in Atlanta. He
has a l-year-old daughter, Allison.

KATHERINE C. LINK (See ROBERT S. LINK
JR., ’80).

CHARLES W. MASON has been named an assis-
tant professor of journalism at the University of
Alaska in Anchorage. He is also one of a handful
of free-lance photographers recently signed by
Black Star, an international photographic agency.

DR. SCOTT S. PRYSI is a surgical resident in
training at the University of Hawaii.

G. L. BUIST RIVERS III works for Colonial Life
and Accident Insurance Co. in Charleston, S.C.

RUSSELL R. ROSLER practices law with the cor-
porate finance practice group of Vorys, Sater,
Seymour, and Pease in Columbus, Ohio.

THAMER E. TEMPLE III is an attorney with
McSweeney, Burtch & Crump. He and his wife,
Teresa, live in Richmond.

KEVIN J. WALAKOVITS is a swaps trader for
Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City. He
graduated from the City University of New York
with a master’s degree in finance in June 1990.

CAMERON J. ADAMS is a student
at Columbia University’s business
school. He lives in New York City.

ALBERT B. BOGGS JR. is a manager at Price
Waterhouse in Baltimore.

DAVID F. CONNOR, a recent graduate of
Vanderbilt University’s School of Law, works in
the legal department of Daimler-Benz AG in Stutt-
gart, West Germany. He was one of 15 young
American professionals chosen to spend a year in
West Germany on a fellowship sponsored by the
Robert Bosch Foundation. As part of the program,
he spent several months working in the West Ger-
man Ministry of Justice.

CHARLES M. DAVIDSON is an assistant ter-
minal manager of Conoco Transport Terminal in
Washington, W.Va.

EDWARD M. GRIFFIN is vice president of First
City in Houston, where he lives with his wife, Julie.

TODD D. JONES is a litigation associate with
Klinedinst and Fliehman in San Diego. He is chair-
man of the recruiting program and summer pro-
gram and is in charge of associate development.
He is also active in theater and recently appeared
as Pooh-Bah in the San Diego Comic Opera’s pro-
duction of The Mikado.

JAMES D. KAY JR. is a partner in the Nashville,
Tenn., firm of Manier, Herod, Hollabaugh, and
Smith.

CHARLES S. KERR is a field manager for Ford
Motor Co. He works in the New York district of
the company’s Lincoln Mercury Division. Kerr
lives in Fairview, N.J.

WILLIAM A. MANER received a master of
business administration degree from the Darden
School at the University of Virginia in May. He
is NOW an associate with Morgan Stanley and Co.
Inc. in New York City.

CAPT. DAVID E. MCGEHEE is a judge ad-
vocate in the U.S. Army. He is stationed at
Redstone Arsenal near his hometown of Hunts-
ville, Ala.

THOMAS M. MURPHY is a sales and literary
agent for George Scheer Assoc., which is based
in Chapel Hill, N.C. He lives in Decatur, Ga.

GORDON S. OGDEN is a senior associate at Pat-
tison Partners, a real estate consulting firm in New
York City.

DUANE C. PRESTEN III is a student at the
University of Georgia’s law school.

DAVIS G. REESE is an associate with Morrison
and Foerster in San Francisco, where he specializes
in the development of energy projects. Reese, his
wife, and their son live in Walnut Creek, Calif.

SAMUEL M. RILEY graduated from law school
in May and now practices law in Baltimore.

DR. SCOTT B. BOYD and his wife,

Mary, have recently returned from
London, where he worked in the National Hospital
for Nervous Disease. In May, Boyd graduated
from the Medical University of South Carolina.
He is now a resident in neurological surgery at the
University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel
Hill.

JOHN P. CASE III is a student at the University
of Virginia’s Darden Graduate School of Business.

GERARD JOSEPH COSTELLO, who lives in
Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., graduated cum laude
from New York Law School in June. He served
as the notes and comments editor of the school’s
Journal of International and Comparative Law.

ANTHONIE M. FRENS is pursuing his doctorate
in physics at the University of Leyden in the
Netherlands.

G. (RUSTY) JOHNSON III is a securities analyst
in Bangkok, Thailand, with a British fund manage-
ment group.

LESTER S. JOHNSON is working toward his
Ph.D. in pathology in the M.D.-Ph.D. program
at Columbia University’s College of Physicians
and Surgeons.

W&L 47

 

 

Mark Richard, ’80, wins Hemingway Award

Photo by Robin Layton, The Virgini

Mark Richard, ’80, has received one
of the largest literary awards given to
American fiction writers.

Richard won the 15th annual Ernest
Hemingway Foundation Award in July
for his debut collection of short stories,
The Ice at the Bottom of the World.

The Hemingway Award is admin-
istered by PEN, the world association of
writers, to an American author for a first
published book of fiction. It was pre-
sented to Richard by Norman Mailer dur-
ing a five-day Hemingway conference at
the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.

The judges for the competition said
of the book, ‘‘Mark Richard’s stories are
ambitious and successful. Each of them
carries off several balancing acts
simultaneously. Language shifts from the
unerring buzz of colloquial cadences in-
to thrilling slipstreams of poetry, surpris-
ing yet utterly appropriate. Profound ir-
reverence, which makes the reader laugh
out loud, is accompanied by sympathy
and affection. And always in these stories
we find the quintessentially American
balancing act of despair and high spirits.”’

Richard’s stories have appeared in
Harper’s, Esquire, and Grand Street. The
author was a finalist in this year’s Na-
tional Magazine Awards and recently
received a writing fellowship from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts.

The road to success hasn’t been easy
for Richard, who acknowledges that he’s
**still broke and living cost-efficiently.’’
Nevertheless, the recent acclaim has been
a pleasant reward after five years as a
struggling writer in New York City.

Though he was sometimes forced to

  
     

-Pilot
sleep on friends’ floors, Richard claims
he never thought about quitting. ‘‘My life
has never hinged on being a successful
writer,’’ he says. ‘‘If something gives you
pleasure, it’s not something you consider
stopping. I was never desperate because
there was no reason for desperation.’’

Richard’s first ‘‘break’’ came back in
1980, when the late James Boatwright, his
creative writing professor at Washington
and Lee, submitted a story of his to the
Atlantic Monthly’s short story competi-
tion. Richard knew nothing about it un-
til he happened to pick up a copy of the
magazine in a convenience store one day
and saw his name as one of the finalists.

*‘Jim Boatwright really supported
me,’’ Richard recalls. ‘‘When I was
broke, he gave me a job at Shenandoah
[Washington and Lee’s literary magazine,
of which Boatwright was the editor until
his death two years ago]. He encouraged
me to write.

**Because of the small classes at W&L,
you really got more individual attention.
It sounds like a cliche, but it’s true. That’s
especially important in writing, because
the instruction is more incisive.’’

These days, Richard is working on
more stories, a few off-off Broadway
plays, and a novel based on one of the
stories from The Ice at the Bottom of the
World. Still, despite his awards and
honors, he’s not sure he would classify
himself as a ‘‘writer.’’

‘*T have never really positioned myself
as a writer,’’ he says. ‘‘I will probably
keep writing, but it will never be
everything in my life.’’

 

 

48

W&L

C. CARTER KANNAPELL JR. is a mort

loan officer for Trustbank Savings. He lives jn _

Bethesda, Md.

ANTHONY D. MCCANN works with Shearson
Lehman Hutton in New York City. He com

three years of active duty with the 82nd Airborne
Division.

CHRISTOPHER M. MCGOWAN is a commer-
cial underwriter with the Chubb Group of In-
surance Cos. He lives in Philadelphia.

BARBARA L. MORRIS is an associate with the
law firm of Boone, Wellford, Clark, i
and Apperson in Memphis, Tenn.

K. DOUGLASS MOYERS has left the Richmond
law firm of Browder and Russell and joined the
firm of Williams, Mullen, Christian, and Dobbins,
also in Richmond.

DANIEL J. O’CONNOR III works with the _
Atlanta-based Southern Legislative Confi 4
where he has been employed since June 1987. He
lives in Decatur, Ga. 4

NELSON R. PATTERSON recently earned a

master of business administration degree fromthe _

University of Virginia. He is now a brand assis-
tant with Procter & Gamble Co. in Cincinnati.

DR. EDWIN J. VILLAMATER has graduated _
from the Medical College of Virginia and is in

residency training in anesthesiology at the Univer- _ 4

sity of Maryland in Baltimore.

STEPHEN M. WATSON is an attorney with _
Coates and Davenport in Richmond.

ANDREW S. WEINBERG is assistant vice presi-
dent on the U.K. subsidiary desk of National

Westminster Bank PLC. He lives in New York 3

City.

CLINTON R. WHITAKER is with The David

Sarnoff Research Center, where he is involved with _
applied artificial intelligence research for elec-

tronics manufacturing. He makes his home in —

Plainsboro, N.J.

THOMAS E. BAKER JR. (See ’83).

J. GREGORY BARROW is a sales representative
for Capital Associates International, a large-scale
equipment lease financing and brokerage services
company. After spending a year in Long Beach,
Calif., he now lives in Denver. “a

THOMAS J. BOYD is pursuing a doctorate in
marine microbiology at the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography. He also serves in the U.S. Army
Reserve. Boyd lives in San Diego.

VICTOR A. BRYANT is a government relations

associate at the American Textile Manufacturers
Institute in Washington, D.C. .

DAVID R. COBB isa registered representative for
Suntrust Securities and its affiliate trust company-
He lives in Atlanta.

WILLIAM D. DEEP JR. is a project coordinator
in the films division of ICI Americas in Ri ond.
He graduated from the University of Virginia in
1989 with a master of science degree in chemi
engineering.

JOSEPH K. DONOVAN attends law school at St.
John’s University. He has been working as an In-

 

a

tern for New York State Supreme Court Justice
Kenneth D. Molloy.

WILLIAM E. ESHAM III is a judicial law clerk
for the Hon. William R. Buchanan in Baltimore
County, Md. He will graduate from the Universi-
ty of Baltimore Law School in December 1990.

JOHN G. KOEDEL III lives in Richmond, where
he has completed the first three parts of the ac-
tuarial examinations. His goal is to become a
fellow in the Society of Actuaries.

CRAIG A. MATZDORF is a research chemist at
Martin Marietta Labs in Baltimore.

THOMAS E. MAURER is an ensign in the U.S.
Navy stationed at Naval Air Station Whiting Field
near Milton, Fla., where he is undergoing pilot

training.

After graduating from the University of Tennessee
College of Law in December 1989, JOHN G.
MITCHELL III began practicing law in Mur-
freesboro, Tenn.

CAPT. RICHARD M. PARR has completed the
Lawyers’ Military Justice Course in Newport, R.I.

THOMAS H. PEE is an air operator and produc-
tion engineer for WPBA-TV public television in
Atlanta. He plays soccer on a local club team and
is training for the 1990 New York City marathon.

JOHN F. PENSEC has been promoted to account
executive in the corporate marketing communica-
tions unit at Hill and Knowlton Inc. in Atlanta.

ANDREW M. REIBACH is doing clinical rota-
tions in his third year of medical school at
Southwestern University in Dallas. He hopes to
return to the East Coast for his residency.

CARLTON SIMONS JR. is studying for a mas-
ter’s degree in business administration at the
University of South Carolina.

ERIC R. TURNER of Warwick, R.I., is comp-
troller for Claudine Schneider’s senate race in
Rhode Island.

THOMAS J. AMICO just completed

his second year of law school at the
University of Virginia. During the summer he was
an associate for Brown and Wood in New York
City.

DANIEL P. BOUDREAU of Fredericksburg,
Va., is a property adjuster in Allstate Insurance’s
management trainee program.

GARY H. CAMPBELL has joined the Vernon W.
Holleman Jr. Co. Holleman is a 1958 graduate of
W&L. Campbell lives in Alexandria, Va.

W. SEAN COYLE is a law student at Oklahoma
City University. He is also working for the law firm
of Looney, Nichols, Johnson, Hayes, and
Associates.

THOMAS J. ETERGINO is an associate with
Coopers and Lybrand in Parsippany, N.J.

CHRISTOPHER R. GAREIS teaches English and
Coaches boys’ and girls’ varsity soccer at

ansemond-Suffolk Academy. Last year he
€stablished the school’s first girls’ soccer team and
Was voted coach of the year for girls’ soccer in the
Tidewater Conference of Independent Schools. He
lives in Suffolk, Va.

CRAIG O. GARNEAU has received a master’s
degree in theological studies from Harvard Divini-
ty School.

DAVID B. GRAY is a trust officer with First
Wachovia Corp. in Atlanta.

MICHAEL R. HENRY is an assistant account ex-
ecutive at The Martin Agency, an advertising firm
in Richmond.

CRAIG M. KEANNA has completed his first year
at SUNY-Downstate Medical School in Brooklyn.
He lives in East Rockaway, N.Y.

After graduating from Virginia Tech with a mas-
ter’s degree in civil engineering, LORENA A.
MANRIQUEZ began work as a staff engineer with
Woodward-Clyde Consultants in Wayne, N.J.

RONN W. MERCER is pursuing a master’s degree
in international business at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia.

JAMES H. MORGAN III is a legislative aide to
U.S. Congressman Doug Barnard of Athens, Ga.
He lives in Washington, D.C.

J. BRADLEY PRESTON passed the November
1989 certified public accountant examination. He
works for Deloitte and Touche in Washington,
D.C., and lives in Alexandria, Va., with his wife,
Frances.

ROGER J. REYNOLDS JR. has joined Wheat,
First, Butcher, and Singer as an investment broker.
He works in the company’s Philadelphia office.

SCOTT D. RIPPEON is a teacher at All Saints
Cathedral School, a high school in St. Thomas,
U.S. Virgin Islands. He survived Hurricane Hugo
last fall, although he was forced to live for several
months without electricity.

HENRY M. SACKETT IV has been promoted
from trainee to architectural representative at
N. B. Handy Co. He lives in Greenville, S.C., and
works in the South Carolina market.

MARK D. SOLOMON is a senior technologist on
the corporate staff of Continental Bakery Corp.
After living in Atlanta, he is transferring to St.
Louis, the company’s corporate headquarters.

TONY L. TOWLER is a real estate agent with
Herring Real Estate in Lexington.

JAMES S. WILLIAMS has completed his second
year at the Cumberland School of Law in Bir-
mingham, Ala. While in law school, he has been
on the dean’s list and the Trial Advocacy Board,
and he received the American Jurisprudence Book
Award in Constitutional Law. During the summer,
Williams worked for Sirote and Permutt and for
Rives and Peterson in Birmingham.

M. LUCILLE ANDERSON is a stu-

dent at the New York Studio School
of Drawing, Painting, and Sculpture in New York
City. She also works for the law firm of White and
Case as a part-time legal assistant.

SHANNON K. ARMSTRONG is an assistant ac-
count executive on the Labatt’s USA account at
The Marketing Continuum Inc. She lives in Dallas.

JENNIFER M. BRAY works in technology mar-
keting for the consulting firm of Regis McKenna
in the San Francisco Bay area.

THOMAS A. BULLOTTA is a systems engineer
for Electronic Data Systems. He lives in Plains-
boro, N.J.

CHRISTOPHER L. CALLAS has completed his
first year of law school at Vanderbilt University.

CHRISTOPHER D. CASEY has joined Bear
Stearns as an analyst in the mergers and acquisi-
tions group of the company’s corporate finance
department. He recently completed credit train-
ing at Manufacturers Hanover. Casey lives in New
York.

ANNA M. HAMPTON is an assistant buyer for
Hecht’s in Arlington, Va.

COURTNEY H. HARPOLD is a second-year
medical student at West Virginia University.

ANDREW L. HOWELL is employed by Coldwell
Banker in commercial real estate services. He lives
in Charlotte.

DAVID A. HUDSON is assistant manager of
McLean Rentals in the company’s Springfield
branch. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

EDWARD D. LUDWIG has completed his first
year of study at Louisville Presbyterian Theo-
logical Seminary, where he posted the highest
grades in his class. He has been a student intern
at Oxford Presbyterian Church in Oxford, Pa.

SAMUEL H. MCLANE II is entering his second
year of graduate school in mathematics at Tem-
ple University in Philadelphia.

KEVIN A. STRUTHERS is a development and
administrative officer with the Mountain Arts
Foundation of the West Virginia Division of
Culture and History in Charleston. He coordinates
the writing of grants in the division and the
statewide West Virginia Blue Ribbon Fairs and
Festivals Corporate Sponsorship Program.

C. BRIAN TURNAU is a legal assistant for Con-
rad, Scherer, and James in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

REBECCA L. REYNOLDS is pro-

gram assistant at Historic Fredericks-
burg (Va.) Foundation Inc., a nonprofit preser-
vation organization. She is responsible for public
relations, membership solicitation, volunteer coor-
dination, and special event planning.

 

 

 

Marriages

JOHN R. NAZZARO, ’68, and Lisa Perry in May
1989. Nazzaro works for the United Way in Nor-
folk, Va.

DR. D. DOWNS LITTLE, ’71, and Mary
Margaret Payne on Oct. 28, 1989. The couple lives
in Lewisburg, W.Va., where Little practices
medicine.

MILLARD S. YOUNTS, ’72, and Margaret
DeLaittre on Oct. 28, 1989, in Washington, D.C.
The couple lives in Arlington, Va.

GARLAND H. DANIEL, ’73, and Adelina
Signore on June 9, 1990. Daniel is manager of in-
formation systems with Mobil Oil’s petrochemicals
office in Zaventem, Belgium.

JAMES R. DENNY III, ’73, and Judith A.
Gooden on May 12, 1990, in Richmond. The cou-

W&L 49

 

 

 

Bill Parks, ’82, helps introduce television
to political process in Bulgaria

 

Parks (right) in the Bulgarian State television facility

In June, Bulgarians held their first
free election in 45 years. And in the pro-
cess they discovered a tool that American
politicians couldn’t do without—
television.

Obviously, you can’t learn the art of
sound bites overnight. But the Bulgarians
had some coaching from Bill Parks Jr.,
’82, senior editor and vice president of
post production at Cinemasound Video
in Arlington, Va.

The National Republican Institute for
International Affairs sent Parks to
Bulgaria last spring to assist the Union of
Democratic Forces with their television
programming. Preceding the election, the
three Bulgarian political parties—
Socialist, Democratic, and Agrarian—
each got 20 minutes of air time three times
a week. ‘‘The content of the UDF shows
was very good,’’ Parks says, ‘‘but the
technical ability to put sophisticated pro-
grams together was missing. It was amaz-
ing that the UDF got the program on the
air each night the way they did.’’

Most of the Bulgarians whom Parks
met owned television sets. ‘“Watching TV
is just as popular a pastime in Bulgaria
as it is here in America,’’ he says. ‘‘And
as more and more technology becomes
available to the worker, video is certain-
ly reshaping the way Bulgarian people
view themselves and the rest of the world,

especially America.”’

The programs which Parks helped
produce tried ‘‘to show how Communism
had failed,’’ he says. They included
‘*‘man-on-the-street’’ interviews, which
were ‘‘the most important part of the
show. They gave the viewer the chance to
see what others thought of the Com-
munists and why they should vote for the
UDF.”’

Parks also put together a music video,
which he shot and edited himself. The
video featured a Bulgarian rock group,
‘**The Crickets,’’ singing ‘‘I Am Not A
Communist.”’

Despite the assistance of modern
media, the UDF lost the election with
only 40 percent of the vote. ‘‘We tried our
best,’’ Parks says, ‘‘but I guess the peo-
ple have chosen the Socialists. We’ll just
have to try harder in the local elections
this December.”’

Parks was selected for the Bulgarian
assignment after editing hundreds of
political commercials through the years
for governors, congressmen, and
senators. During the 1988 Republican Na-
tional Convention, he was the director of
large-screen video in the New Orleans
Super Dome. But his work in Bulgaria
was particularly memorable, Parks
believes. ‘‘It was,’’ he says, ‘‘an incredi-
ble experience.’’

 

 

50

W&L

ple lives in Richmond, where Denny is with De
Jarnette and Paul Insurance.

RALPH E. LEHR JR.., ’73, and Patricia Barnett q
on July 14, 1990, in San Antonio, Texas. The coy. _

ple lives in Houston.

DR. WILLIAM F. BEACHAM, 74, and Lucin. _
da Lozien on Oct. 14, 1989. The couple lives jn _

Hammond, La.

KENNETH C. MILLER III, ’75, and Louise _

Hope Pitt on March 3, 1990, in Charlottesville
Va. Both are teachers at Gilman School in Bal.
timore.

DOUGLAS M. FARIS, ’76, and Patricia T. Lee

on Dec. 30, 1989. Faris is senior vice president with _ 3

Binswanger Southern Co. in Charlotte.

WALTER S. ROBERTSON III, ’76, and Susan _

N. Fitchett on May 26, 1990, in Norfolk, Va.
Members of the wedding party included Samuel
R. Brown, ’76, Robert C. Kelly, "76, W. Howell
Morrison, ’76, Joseph T. McMahon, ’77, Ben-

jamin I. Johns, ’78, William A. Thomas, °76, and _
Douglas M. Faris, ’76. The couple lives in a

Richmond.

ROBERT P. BASKIN, ’78, and Elizabeth L. 4

Wagner on May 19, 1990. The couple lives in Rich-

mond, where Baskin is controller and director of z

administration for Zeller Interchem Corp.

J. ANDREW BEVER JR., ’79, and Martha

Hedrick McKay on Dec. 2, 1989, in Tampa, Fla.

Members of the wedding party included Matt 3

Valaes, ’79, and Stephen D. Trigg, ’79. The cou-
ple lives in Tampa.

CY N. BAHAKEL JR.,

Charlotte magazine.

P. CRAIG CORNETT, ’80, and Mary Meuelon
Sept. 30, 1989. Cornett is the director of criminal —
justice policy for the California legislature’s —
legislative analyst’s office. The couple lives in

Sacramento.

THOMAS G. ALFANO, ’81, and Kelly Marie
Gabriel on June 23, 1990. William D. Alfano, 82,
was best man. The couple lives in Orlando, Fla.

FRANK W. BROWER III, ’82, and Sherri L.

Ryman on Feb. 17, 1990, in Dallas.

GEORGE G. CAREY V, ’82, and H. Hampton

R. Daniel on May 26, 1990, in Richmond.

Members of the wedding party included classmates
John W. Williams, William F. L. Brown, James —

V. Bent Jr., and Clifford T. Gordon. The couple
lives in New York City, where Carey is a vice presi-
dent of Saatchi and Saatchi Advertising
Worldwide.

J. BROOKS FLIPPEN, ’82, and Celeste deLorge
on Sept. 23, 1989. The best man was James H.
Flippen, ’79. The couple lives in Washington, D.C.

DARRYL K. WOODSON, ’83, and Mary S.
Hartless on July 21, 1990, in Lee Chapel. The wed-
ding party included classmates Deane Hennett,
Raymond B. Patterson, and John H. Sensabaugh.
The couple lives outside Lexington, where Wood-
son is a reporter for the News-Gazette.

DR. ANDREW W. ASIMOS, ’84, and Christie
Manutes on May 27, 1990, in Flint, Mich. Asimos
is a resident physician in the department of
emergency medicine at Henry Ford Hospital im
Detroit. The couple lives in Birmingham, Mich.

 

:]
oo

a
4
-

80, and Lisa Jo
Romanoff on May 5, 1990, in Charlotte. Boththe __
bride and groom are involved in the publishing of

 

-

RANDOLPH L. ELLIS, ’86, and Donna L. Raley
on April 28, 1990. The wedding party included J.
Thad Ellis Il, ’82, Peter T. Wilbanks, *85, Paul
M. James, *86, W. Price Pollard, ’86, and Peter
K. Braden, ’86. Ellis is a sales representative for
central Virginia for Baxter Healthcare Corp. He
specializes in disposable medical products for
hospitals. The couple lives in Richmond.

ARTHUR A. KANDARIAN, ’86, and Jamie
Linette Smith on Jan. 30, 1990. Kandarian is a
scout platoon leader in the 82nd Airborne Divi-
sion and parachuted into Panama during Opera-
tion Just Cause in December. The couple lives in
Fayetteville, N.C.

JAMES A. HOLMES, ’87, and Ashley Smith on
Jan. 25, 1990. The couple lives in New Orleans,
where Holmes is with the law firm of Christovich

and Kearney.

TIMOTHY G. MCMAHON, ’87, and Anne B.
Coulling on June 16, 1990, in Lexington. The wed-
ding party included Sidney M: B. Coulling, ’48,
Thomas G. Knight, ’87, and Steven F. Pockrass,
87. Christopher J. Deighan, ’87, and W. C. (Burr)
Datz, ’75, provided music. McMahon is director
of the Annual Fund at Washington and Lee.

THOMAS B. PETERS, ’87, and Blair Tyler on
Aug. 5, 1989. Peters is a student at the Darden
Graduate School of Business Administration at the
University of Virginia. The couple lives in
Charlottesville.

CAPT. MICHAEL S. SPEAKMAN, ’87L, and
Susan Marie Lovett on April 21, 1990. The cou-
ple lives in Montgomery, where Speakman is a cir-
cuit defense counsel for the U.S. Air Force and
adjunct professor of constitutional law at Troy
State University.

DAVID B. CARSON, ’88L, and Anna R. Green
on May 12, 1990. The wedding party included
David M. Schilli, ’88L, and Joseph R. Slights III,
*88L. The couple lives in Roanoke, where Carson
is an attorney with the law firm of Johnson, Ayers,
and Matthews.

ALEXANDER G. REEVES JR., ’88, and Sarah

West on May 5, 1990. Members of the wedding -

party included Roger W. Hildreth, ’88, Dean C.
Barry, ’89, and Kevin S. Webb, ’88. The couple
lives in New York City.

J. BRADLEY SHAW, ’88, and Mary Halladay
on May 5, 1990. The wedding party included Jef-
frey L. Marks, ’87, Richard T. Clawson, ’88, John
K. Moore Jr., ’88, Peter J. Pizzo III, ’88, and
William G. Londrey, ’88. The couple lives in
Larchmont, N.Y.

PATIENCE L. JONES, ’89, and WILLIAM A.
GARRETT III, ’87, on Nov. 4, 1989. Members
of the wedding party included Alston P. Parker,
"89, Eleanor C. Nelson, ’89, Clare M. Kaye, ’89,
Caroline E. Boone, ’89, William L. Curtiss, ’87,
Christopher S. Lynch, ’87, and J. Bradley Poor-
man, ’83. The couple lives in Basking Ridge, N.J.

KELLY D. SHIFFLETT, ’90, and E. Darin Simp-
son on May 26, 1990, in Lee Chapel. The wed-
ding party included classmates Colleen V. Ryan,
Leigh Anne Netterville, and Sarah T. Allen. B.
Dallas Hagewood, ’90, provided music. The bride
1S pursuing a doctorate in developmental
Psychology at West Virginia University.

DAVID J. STREETT, 90, and Rebecca Ann
Finkbeiner on June 30, 1990. The wedding party
included Andrew Finkbeiner, ’92, and Elaine Har-
Mls, 92. The couple lives in Little Rock, Ark.

 

Births

 

 

 

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL J. MICHAELES,
’65, ’68L, a daughter, Marissa Grace, on Dec. 21,
1989. The family lives in Boylston, Mass.
Michaeles was recently named to Who’s Who in
Practicing Attorneys.

DR. AND MRS. GARRY APGAR, ’67, twins,
Matthew and Francis, in Bridgeport, Conn., on
May 30, 1990.

MR. AND MRS. G. WILLIAM ALLEN JR.., 69,
a son, Lucas Mack, on Sept. 29, 1989. Allen and
his wife, Michele, also have a 4-year-old daughter,
Katy. Allen is a trial lawyer and partner with the
law firm of Walton Lantaff in Fort Lauderdale,
Fla.

MR. AND MRS. ALAN L. STEDMAN, ’69, a
daughter, Alicia Clare, on Dec. 7, 1989. The family
lives in Haddonfield, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID R. KATZ, ’70, a son,
Aaron, on Jan. 4, 1990. He joins a brother,
Avram, 5. Katz is employed by the University of
Wisconsin Extension’s Communications Develop-
ment Center, where he researches interactive multi-
media, desktop video, and other new media
technologies. The family lives in Madison.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM A. GATLIN III, ’71,
a daughter, Catharine Drennon, on Jan. 22, 1990.
She joins a sister, Claire, and a brother, Douglas.
The family lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS K. GOSSMANN,

*71, ason, Zachary Kerr, on Aug. 17, 1989. The |

family lives in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. MELLO, ’72, a son,
Andrew Patrick, on Feb. 15, 1990. He joins a
brother, Peter Richard, 3. The family lives in
Rochester, Mass.

MR. AND MRS. W. PATRICK HINELY, ’73,
a daughter, Anne Elizabeth Ford, on May 6, 1990,
in Lexington. She joins a sister, Juliet, 4. Hinely
is the University photographer at W&L.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM D. CUNNING-
HAM, ’75, a daughter, Emily Anne, on Dec. 28,
1989. The family lives in Houston, where Cun-
ningham is senior vice president and manager of
estate planning for Woodway Financial Advisors,
a trust company.

DR. AND MRS. PAUL G. FIRTH, ’75, a
daughter, Whitney Diana, on June 26, 1990. She
joins sisters Monica and Stephanie. Firth has an
obstetrics and gynecology practice in Macon, Ga.

MR. AND MRS. CARL P. FLANAGAN III, ’75,
a daughter, Molly Heath, on May 15, 1990. The
family lives in San Antonio, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. HENRY M. MONTAGUE, ’76,
a daughter, Margaret Ann, on May 22, 1990. She
joins two brothers, John, 9, and Will, 6, and one
sister, Martha, 3. The family lives in Char-
lottesville, Va.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH P. RUSCIO, ’76,
a son, Matthew Christopher, on July 17, 1990.
Ruscio is associate dean of students for freshmen
and residence life at Washington and Lee.

MR. AND MRS. JESSE C. O’NEAL, ’77, a son,
Peter Macklin, on June 12, 1990. The family lives
in Raleigh, N.C.

DR. AND MRS. EARL W. STRADTMAN JR.,
*77, a daughter, Merrye Summers, on April 11,
1990. The family lives in Birmingham, Ala., where
Stradtman is on the faculty in the department of
obstetrics and gynecology at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham. He recently completed
a fellowship in reproductive endocrinology at the
Medical College of Georgia.

DR. AND MRS. I. L. (TRIP) WORNOM III, ’77,
a daughter, Jacqueline Amory, on May 8, 1990.
She joins a brother, Christopher. The family lives
in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL T. CLEARY, ’78,
a second daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on Sept. 19,
1989. Cleary is region manager in Coca-Cola
USA’s fountain department. The family lives in
Cherry Hill, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. HENRY S. MCKELWAY, ’78,
their second child, Scott Alexander, on Feb. 9,
1990. The family lives in Mascot, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. SCOTT M. PRICE, ’78, a
daughter, Caroline McClure, on June 19, 1990.
Price practices pharmacy in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. H. HEARTSILL RAGON III,
78, a daughter, Sydney Ann, on Feb. 13, 1990.
The family lives in Little Rock, Ark.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES N. DORSEY, ’79L,
a son, Charles Moody, on Feb. 4, 1990. He joins
a sister, Maggee McNeal. The family lives in
Roanoke, where Dorsey is a litigation partner with
the law firm of Bounds & Dorsey.

MR. AND MRS. TIMOTHY E. LAVELLE, ’79,
ason, Ryan Timothy, on Dec. 5, 1989. The fami-
ly lives in Raleigh, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. J. SCOTT MCCANDLESS,
’79L, their first child, Sarah Elizabeth, on March
7, 1990. The family lives in Kansas City, Mo.

MR. AND MRS. COTESWORTH P. SIMONS,
’79, a son, Cotesworth Pinckney Jr., on Feb. 9,
1990. He joins sisters Elizabeth, 5, and Natalie,
3. The family lives on Sullivan’s Island, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79,
a daughter, Laura Whitaker, on May 30, 1990.
Stephens is president and chief executive officer
of Stephens Inc. in Little Rock, Ark.

MR. AND MRS. LANDON R. WYATT III, ’79,
a son, Landon Russell IV, on May 20, 1990. The
family lives in Charlotte.

MR. AND MRS. ARTHUR L. BLOOM, ’80, a
son, Austin Stewart, on March 29, 1990. The fami-
ly lives in Midlothian, Va.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS E. DUTTON, ’80,
a son, Stephen E., on July 28, 1989. Dutton is a
partner in the Columbus, Ohio, law firm of
Bricker and Eckler. The family lives in Upper Ar-
lington, Ohio.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM F. HILL, ’80, a son,
William Frazier Jr., on July 11, 1990. The family
lives in Greenville, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH M. LYONS, ’80L,
a daughter, Victoria Maher, on May 8, 1990. She
joins a brother, Matthew, in their home in Great
Falls, Va.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD H. SCHOENFELD,
80, a son, Richard H. Jr., on March 29, 1990.
The family lives in Bethesda, Md.

W&L 5!

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE D. VERMILYA JR.,
’80, a son, Sidney Hyatt, on Dec. 19, 1989. He
joins a sister, Emily Catherine, 4, and a brother,
George Douglas III, 2. The family lives in Lynch-
burg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN C. WILLHITE, ’80, a
son, Carnes Harper, on March 26, 1990. The fami-
ly lives in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. HOMER A. C. BLISS, ’81, a
daughter, Lilly Cathryn Dolores, on May 31, 1989.
The family lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

DR. AND MRS. JOHN G. P. BOATWRIGHT
JR., ’81, ason, William Ross, on June 22, 1990.
The family lives in Charleston, S.C., where Boat-
wright is beginning a private practice in
ophthalmology.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT P. GORDON III, ’81,
a son, Robert, on Jan. 22, 1990. The family lives
in Willowbrook, IIl.

MR. AND MRS. KEVIN D. HUMPHRIES, ’81,
a son, Kendall Edward, on March 17, 1990. Hum-
phries is director of fiscal services for Woodrow
Wilson Rehabilitation Center in Fishersville, Va.
The family lives in Staunton.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT W. HYDE JR., ’81L,
their second child, Linsey Anne, on Aug. 22, 1989.
Hyde is an environmental attorney with Merck and
Co. The family lives in Chatham, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN A. PRITCHETT, ’81,
their first child, Virginia Parker, on Nov. 3, 1989.
The family lives in Houston, where Pritchett is
with Amoco Production Co.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. PURCELL, ’81, a
son, Robert Wood Griffith, on June 10, 1989.
Purcell is a senior research biochemist with Mon-
santo Co. of St. Louis.

MR. AND MRS. J. PRESTON COVINGTON
III, ’82, a daughter, Martha Cleveland, on Oct.
25, 1989. Covington and his wife, Mary, live in
Columbia, S.C., where he is vice president of in-
vestments at Smith Barney.

CAPT. AND MRS. SCOTT D. CRAWFORD,
’82, a daughter, Chelsea Victoria, on April 14,
1990, in Stuttgart, West Germany. She joins a
sister, Ashley, 5, and a brother, Scotty, 2.
Crawford is stationed in Stuttgart with the 93rd
Signal Brigade.

MR. AND MRS. J. FRANKLIN WILLIAMS,
’82, ason, Trevor Greenwood, on Oct. 10, 1989.
The family lives in Chesterfield, Va., where
Williams is associated with the law firm of Hun-
ton and Williams.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL D. DRINK-
WATER, ’83, ason, James Michael, on May 28,
1990. He joins a sister, Caroline, 2. The family
lives in Dallas.

MR. AND MRS. HARRY A. FEUERSTEIN, ’83,
a son, Jared Chase, on May 15, 1990. Feuerstein
is senior vice president of National Capital Group
Inc., a merchant banking firm based in
Washington, D.C. The family lives in Reston, Va.

DR. AND MRS. H. E. (MO) GILL, ’83, a son,
Howard Elmo IV, on April 19, 1990. Gill is com-
pleting a residency in Birmingham, Ala., where the
family lives.

MR. AND MRS. D. CHRISTIAN GRAHAM,
’83, a daughter, Katherine Elizabeth, on April 1,
1990. The family lives in Iron Station, N.C.

52. W&L

MR. AND MRS. DAVID W. MOORE, ’83, a
daughter, Kirsten Corbett-Price, on March 17,
1990. The family lives in Vicksburg, Miss., where
Moore is a research toxicologist at the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers-Waterways Experiment
Station.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES E. STANLEY, ’83, a
son, Jacob Tyler, on May 7, 1990. Stanley is a
senior control room operator at Calvert Cliffs
Nuclear Power Plant in St. Leonard, Md.

MR. AND MRS. HOWARD T. WALL III, ’83L,
their first child, Harrison Paschall, on May 24,
1990. Wall and his wife, Kimberly, live in Brent-
wood, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. ELLIS B. DREW III, ’84L, a
son, David Ellis, on March 24, 1990. Drew works
in the litigation section of Womble Carlyle Sand-
ridge and Rice. He specializes in commercial litiga-
tion and suretyship law and was recently named
chairman of the North Carolina Young Lawyers
Division Professionalism Committee. The family
lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. DWIGHT H. EMANUELSON
JR., ’84, a son, Dwight Hillis III, on June 29,
1990. The family lives in Dallas.

MR. AND MRS. WILLARD W. KELLY, ’84, a
son, Willard Whitney Jr., on Oct. 7, 1989. The
family lives in Fort Worth, Texas.

MR. AND MRS. THEODORE D. PETRIDES,
84, a daughter, Anna Sophia, on March 12, 1990.
She joins brothers Alexandros, 4, and Nicholas,
2. Petrides received a master of divinity degree cum
laude from Holy Cross Greek Orthodox Seminary
in May. The family plans to spend a year in
Thessalonia, Greece, where Petrides will continue
his studies.

MR. AND MRS. H. M. (HARRY) BOND, ’85,
a son, Henry Talbott, on Feb. 28, 1990. Bond is
vice president of operations for T. Talbott Bond
Co., an Alcoa Standard company. The family lives
in Towson, Md.

MR. AND MRS. KIRK F. TENEYCK, ’86, a
daughter, Emily Gibson, on May 22, 1990. The
family lives in Cincinnati.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

MORRIS HAMLET HESTER, ’17, ’20L, retired
attorney from Lynchburg, Va., died April 27,
1990.

DEAN RUSSELL MOSER, ’24, retired busi-
nessman from Morristown, Tenn., died Dec. 31,
1989. He was president and general manager of
Morristown Laundry and Dry Cleaners until he
sold the business in 1978. A member of the Mor-
ristown Athletic Hall of Fame, Moser had the
longest Little League coaching career in the na-
tion at the time of his retirement. He helped
organize the Morristown Little League and
coached a team for 25 years. He was a member
of the First Presbyterian Church of Morristown,
where he taught Sunday school, led the youth
group, and was an elder emeritus.

ELMORE GAREAU DUFOUR, ’25, a retired
loan officer, died Jan. 18, 1990. He attended W&L
for two years, from 1921 to 1923, and lived in San
Antonio, Texas.

ROGER EMMANUEL BLUM, ’26, a pioneer in
the baking industry, died April 29, 1990. Blum was
one of the first to encourage the use of aluminum
foil for baking pies and cakes. He was a salesman
for Blum Inc., a family-owned company found.
ed by his father in 1892. Blum created a system
to eliminate flour, dust, and oil from the bakery
environment and developed processing and
packaging equipment for the industry. A resident
of Cleveland, Ohio, Blum was a member and past
president of the National Baker Suppliers Associa-

tion and a member of the American Institute of -

Baking, the American Bakers Association, and the
American Society of Bakery Engineers. He was
also a member of Cleveland’s Oakwood Club, the
Cleveland Skating Club, and Fairmount Temple.

THE REV. JOHN LEIGHTON STUART Jr.,
’28, retired Presbyterian minister in Summit,
Miss., died May 1, 1990. Following graduation
from W&L, Stuart received a degree from Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond in 1931. He
served in the ministry of the Presbyterian Church
in the U.S. until his retirement in 1973. During
his career, Stuart served churches in Baltimore,
rural Virginia, and Pascagoula, Corinth, and Sum-
mit, Miss. He taught Bible occasionally at
Southwest Mississippi Junior College.

WILLIAM PLUMMER WOODLEY, ’28L,
retired chairman of Columbian Peanut Co. in Nor-
folk, Va., died May 24, 1990. Woodley joined the
company following his graduation from W&L and
became president in 1947. In 1967, he became
chairman of the board, a position he held until
his retirement in 1982. A former W&L class agent,
Woodley served on numerous boards during his
career, including the National Association of
Manufacturers, the Virginia Manufacturers Asso-
ciation, Shenandoah Life Insurance Co., Navy
League of the United States, Virginia National
Bank, and the Virginia Department of Conserva-
tion and Economic Development. He was the
former president of the Hampton Roads Council
of the Navy League of the U.S., Norfolk General
Hospital, the National Peanut Council, the Coun-
cil of Social Agencies, and the Virginia Carolina
Peanut Association. Woodley was a member of
First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, where he
was an elder.

DAVID CLEON EBERHART, ’30, retired direc-
tor of the Federal Register in Washington, D.C.,
died May 11, 1990. After graduating from Wash-
ington and Lee, Eberhart received law degrees
from Georgetown University. He served as athletic
director and headmaster at Norfolk Academy in
Norfolk, Va., before joining the National Archives
and Records Service in 1937.

THOMAS WRIGHT HANCOCK, ’32, retired
retailer and funeral director from Morocco, Ind.,
died Aug. 29, 1989. He was a former W&L class
agent and lived in Lakeland, Fla.

LOUIS BRADFORD HESS JR.., ’34, of Phoenix,
Ariz., died in January 1990. He was the

West Coast sales manager for Noxell Corp., 4
cosmetics manufacturer.

HARVEY PRIDE, ’34, retired automobile dealer,
died June 2, 1990, in his hometown of Decatur,
Ala. He was the owner and operator of Pride Pon-

 

 

 

tiac for 30 years. He was a member of the Decatur
Rotary Club and the First United Methodist
Church, where he was chairman of the board of
stewards. During World War II, Pride served in
the U.S. Army Air Corps. He was a former direc-
¢ the Decatur Chamber of Commerce and was

tor O

a member of the Decatur New Car Dealers Asso-
ciation, which he also served as president. He was
a charter member of the Decatur Country Club.

DR. IRVING ROSEN BLOCK, ’35, died Oct. 27,
1989. After graduating from Washington and Lee,
Block received a master’s degree in biology from
New York University and his medical degree from
Howard University. He was a proctologist for
many years in Forest Hills and Bayside, N.Y., and
taught surgery at the State University of New York
College of Medicine in New York City.

FRANCIS CHARLES BEHLE JR., ’36, died
Nov. 15, 1989, in Richmond, Va.

CHARLES WESTON HAWKS, ’36, died May
13, 1990. He lived in Carrollton, Va.

RAY JAMES WALLACE, ’36, retired farmer and
Maytag dealership owner, died Aug. 16, 1989, in
Effingham, Ill. Wallace was a member of the Elks
Club and former president of the Effingham Board
of Education.

VINCENT CASSEL ADAMSON, ’37, ’39L,
retired judge of the Richmond Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court, died May 5, 1990.
Following graduation, Adamson went to work for
the Richmond law firm of Wallerstein, Goode, and
Evans. In 1941, he joined the U.S. Navy and serv-
ed during World War II as a lieutenant. He later
returned to the law firm and became a partner.
He was appointed a commissioner in chancery by
the Richmond Circuit Court and was a substitute
judge in the Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court. He became a judge in 1968 and served until
his retirement in 1977. After he retired he served
as counsel in the law firm of Adamson and Adam-
son. He also worked as a substitute judge in
genera! district courts throughout Virginia. Adam-
son was a founder of the Salisbury Corp., a real
estate development company in Chesterfield, Va.

HAROLD CALVIN MAGOON, ’37, retired Buf-
falo, N.Y., insurance professional, died March 19,
1990, in Sarasota, Fla. A native of Buffalo,
Magoon was a chartered property and casualty
underwriter there for four decades, before selling
his agency and retiring in 1977. He attended
Washington and Lee from 1933 to 1935 and
entered the U.S. Army Air Corps in 1940, where
he trained as a pilot and began an aviation school
for blacks. He was a lieutenant colonel in the U.S.
Air Force and was a commanding officer at the
Tuskegee Air Force Base in Tuskegee, Ala., before
leaving the service in 1946. Magoon was a member
of the Aircraft Owners Pilot Association, the An-
cient Landmarks Masons Lodge in Buffalo, and
the Century Club in Sarasota.

KELLEY EVERT REED JR., °37, retired
Charleston, W.Va., insurance executive, died June
19, 1990. Reed served in the South Pacific during
World War II. He became president of Reed-
Shannon Insurance in 1961, and from 1967 to 1979
he was president of Kelly-Green Sand Co. He was
also a director of Poole Associates and Pressure

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birth-
days, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes
OMAGH CCI MACOMB ame meme litt Ce

ARM CHAIR
sila aa lee, me LL ee LL The Arm Chair and Boston

$190 - Not including freight charges Rocker are also available in
natural dark pine stain, with

crest in five colors, at the same
BOSTON ROCKER price as the black arm chair and
Me. ae al ag rocker.

$170 - Not including freight charges

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges will
be billed after delivery. Estimates for those charges are available upon request. Freight charges
PUR e MORE Ew UOC eM Me tem tia
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

W&L

 

53

Products. Reed was a former president of the West
Virginia Insurance Agents Association and Sunrise
Inc. and served on the boards of two Charleston
banks. He was also associated with Wheat First
Securities as a registered representative.

LEROY ARTHUR WATSON, ’39, retired Dun
and Bradstreet salesman, died April 16, 1990, in
Newport News, Va. Watson attended W&L for
one year, in 1935-36, and later served in the U.S.
Navy during World War II. He retired from Dun
and Bradstreet in 1980 after 35 years with the com-
pany. He was a member of St. George’s Episcopal
Church.

MATTHEWS ALLEN GRIFFITH, ’40, a public
relations and publishing consultant in New York
City, died May 16, 1990. Following graduation,
he spent one year at W&L’s law school before
being drafted into the Army. He served during
World War II as a director of public relations at
the Army Service Forces Training Center. He then
worked as a writer and editor for both the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch and The Commonwealth
magazine. He was an Official of the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce and Regional Defense
Mobilization Committee and was executive direc-
tor of the Waynesboro, Va., Chamber of Com-
merce, the Blue Ridge Parkway Association, and
the Woodrow Wilson Centennial Commission. In
1957, Griffith moved to New York City, where he
was a public relations and publishing consultant.
For eight years, he was an editor for the Associated
Press there, and he served as president of New
York’s W&L alumni chapter for several years.
Griffith was the director of the original, pilot-study
anti-littering campaign for Keep America
Beautiful, and in 1957, he planned Virginia’s
celebration of the state’s 350th birthday.

HARRY ROBERTS STEPHENSON JR., ’40L,
a Greenville, S.C., attorney, died April 25, 1990.
After graduating from Washington and Lee,
Stephenson joined the FBI as a special agent and
served in New York, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland.
He returned to Greenville in 1945, where he prac-
ticed law and was a director of the Southern
Bleachery and Print Works from 1948 to 1955. He
was a member of the law firm of Haynsworth,
Marion, McKay, and Guerard, where he special-
ized in corporate law. Stephenson served on the
YMCA board of managers and was president of
the American Business Club, a director of Mount
Vernon Mills, and a trustee of Woodberry Forest
School in Orange, Va., where he had been a stu-
dent. He was a founding director of Southern
Bank and Trust Co. in 1961 and continued to serve
on its board and later that of Southern Bancorp.
for 25 years. He was a communicant of Christ
Church Episcopal, where he had been senior
warden.

ERNEST WOODWARD II, ’40, a Louisville, Ky.,
attorney, died May 12, 1990. He was a senior part-
ner in the law firm of Woodward, Hobson, and
Fulton and was a member of the American, Ken-
tucky, and Louisville Bar Associations. He was a
graduate of the University of Louisville law school,
where he was an instructor from 1947 to 1960. He
was a former president of both the W&L Alumni
Association and the University of Louisville
Alumni Association. He received a Silver Star for
his service in the U.S. Army during World War
II. Woodward was a member of the American Col-
lege of Probate Counsel, Sons of the American
Revolution, the Pendennis Club, and the Louisville
Boat Club.

54 W&L

WILLIAM PATTERSON AMES JR., ’41, of Ar-
lington, Va., died in May 1990. He was the
treasurer of Murphy & Ames Inc., a retail lumber
business.

KEITH WAYNE BLINN, ’41L, lawyer, educator,
and author, died May 15, 1990. He attended law
school at W&L for two years and received his law
degree from Marquette University. He also studied
law at Yale University. He was general counsel and
senior vice president of Continental Oil Co. and
was a professor of law at the Universities of
Washington, North Dakota, Idaho, California,
and Houston. His most recent book, Legal and
Ethical Concepts in Engineering, was published
in 1989 and is used widely in engineering and law
schools. Blinn lived in Irvine, Calif., at the time
of his death.

JOHN HOMAN ROZELLE, ’41, retired in-
surance agency owner, died March 9, 1990, in
Dallas. He attended W&L for two years, from
1937 to 1939, and also attended Baylor Universi-
ty. He was a member of Park Cities Baptist Church
and was a former member of the Rotary Club, the
Dallas Club, and the Independent Insurance
Agents of Dallas and of Texas.

JESSE WILSON BENTON JR., ’43, ’48L, an in-
surance company executive and World War II
veteran, died April 11, 1990. Benton was a direc-
tor and senior vice president of Chubb and Son
Inc. in Warren Township, N.J., when he retired
in 1984 after 36 years with the insurance company.
At the time of his death, he was executive direc-
tor and secretary of the New Jersey Property-
Liability Insurance Guaranty Association. He
moved to Chatham, N.J., in 1951, and served on
the Chatham Township Committee as commit-
teeman and director of public safety. He was also
a member of the township planning board. Ben-
ton was deputy mayor in 1989, and from 1979 to
1980 he was president of the Chatham Emergen-
cy Squad. He served as president of the Chubb
Foundation and as secretary of the New Jersey
Medical Malpractice Reinsurance Association. He
was a member of the American, New York, and
Virginia Bar Associations and the International
Association of Defense Counsels in Chicago. He
was also a member of the Federation of Insurance
and Corporate Counsels of Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
and the Claims Executive Council of the American
Insurance Association in Washington, D.C. He
was a director of the Center for Addictive Illnesses
in Morristown, N.J., a lay speaker and ad-
ministrative board member of the First United
Methodist Church, and a member of the Canoe
Brook Country Club and the Chatham Fish and
Game Association.

LEONARD CARLYSLE CARTER JR., ’48,
citrus grower, attorney, and real estate developer,
died Feb. 21, 1990, in his hometown of Lakeland,
Fla. He attended W&L for one year, 1944-45, and
transferred to the University of North Carolina.
He graduated cum laude from the University of
Florida School of Law and entered a law practice
in Lakeland. He later organized Carter Fruit Co.
and at one time had one of the largest privately
owned citrus groves in Florida. He was a member
of All Saints Episcopal Church.

HERBERT DEBAUN BRYANT, ’49L, retired
vice president and general counsel for BATUS Inc.
and former vice president and general counsel for
Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corp., died
March 26, 1990, in Louisville, Ky. Bryant grad-

uated from Centre College in 1946 and joined
Brown and Williamson Tobacco follow; his
graduation from law school. After working as an
attorney in the law department, he was Promoted
to vice president and general counsel and served
on the corporation’s board of directors. He also
served on the board of the Tobacco Institute in
Washington, D.C., and was later vice president
and general counsel for BATUS. Bryant was an
elder in the Second Presbyterian Church of
Louisville and was on the boards of Norton
Children’s Hospital, the Children’s Hospital Foun-
dation, and St. Francis High School. He was an
overseer of Centre College, and the Louisville
Alumni Club of Centre named him the Outstand-
ing Louisville Area Alumnus in 1987. Bryant was
a member of the Tavern Club, the Pendennis Club,
and the Louisville Boat Club and was a former
member of the Audubon Country Club.

DAVID KELLER CALDWELL, ’49, director of
research for Marineland Research Laboratories of
Florida and a fellow of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science, died June 1,
1990. He lived in St. Augustine, Fla. He and his
wife, Melba, worked as a husband-and-wife team
for more than 30 years studying dolphins and
whales. Caldwell held degrees from the Universities
of Michigan, Miami, and Florida. He worked with
the U.S. Bureau of Commercial Fisheries during
the 1950s before becoming the curator of marine
biology at the Los Angeles County Museum of
Natural History. He later served as a research
scientist at the University of Florida Marine
Laboratory.

JOHN ALDERSON FARR JR., 49, ’52L, died
March 15, 1990. He practiced law with the Ander-
son, Ind., firm of Busby, Austin, Cooper, and
Farr for 37 years and was a member of the
Madison County and Indiana State Bar Associa-
tions. He was a trustee of Anderson’s Communi-
ty Hospital and a member of First United
Methodist Church and the Rotary Club.

GEORGE FRED MILLIGAN, ’56, retired chair-
man and chief executive officer of Norwest Bank
of Des Moines, Iowa, died March 17, 1990.
Milligan joined Norwest in 1961 after receiving a
degree from Drake University Law School. He was
elected to the Iowa House of Representatives in
1966. After two terms in the House, he went on
to serve in the Senate from 1970 to 1974. His
political career ended in 1974, when he ran un-
successfully for the U.S. Senate. Milligan, who
retired in 1989, was a member of Plymouth Con-
gregational Church, the lowa and American Bar
Associations, the Iowa and American Bankers
Associations, the Rotary Club, the Army Reserve,
and the Civil War Club. He was a past president
of the Des Moines Community Playhouse and the
Des Moines Health Center Board. He also served
on the boards of the Des Moines Symphony, Simp-
son College, Planned Parenthood, and Home-
steaders Life Insurance Co.

ROBERT NEIL MCLEAN, ’57L, died June 12,
1990. He lived in Martinsville, Va.

WILLIAM FRANK FORD, ’61L, an Atlanta at-
torney, died July 10, 1990. Ford earned his under-
graduate degree from Miami University in Ohio
in 1957. He was a senior partner in the Atlanta-
based law firm of Ford and Harrison and was 4
member of the American, Georgia, and Atlanta
Bar Associations. He was chairman of the W&L
Annual Fund in 1981-82 and was a member of the

    

‘ lit
Sit Set A ed tient o

 

  

ohh» Wy ws

&
2
+.
5
*
~~
x
y
a
a
~
a

 

—

Piedmont Driving Club, the University Yacht
Club, and Central Presbyterian Church.

FRANK LOUIS FAIRCHILD JR., 67, died in
June 1989. He had disappeared while crossing
from Guatemala into Mexico to investigate con-
ditions in a refugee camp. Fairchild was an educa-
tion officer for the U.S. Agency for International
Development and had served in Afghanistan,
Guatemala, and Pakistan. After graduating from
Washington and Lee, he joined the Peace Corps
and taught in India. He held a master’s degree in
journalism from the University of North Carolina
and a doctorate in curriculum and instruction from
Columbia University.

LEE PHILLIPS SYMONS, ’68, died April 10,
1990. He attended W&L for one year and
graduated from Washington and Jefferson Col-
lege in 1968. He also attended Dickinson School

of Law.

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

Mr. Yoder’s defense of flag burning and a revi-
sionist Supreme Court [‘‘Burning the Flag for
Pleasure and Politics,’? April 1990] deserves a
rebuttal, although his dismissal of Walter Berns’
‘formidable and articulate attack’’ as irrelevant
suggests that his own bias is irrational (emotional)
and any rebuttal will be wasted on him.

Referring to the idea that by ‘“‘speech’’ the

' writers of the Constitution could have meant

**speech,’’ he says, ‘‘. . .[I]s so cramped and
crabbed a vision of discourse what the framers
really had in mind?’’ as though the only possible
answer to his question were ‘‘no.’’ In my view,
the answer is ‘‘yes’’ and the proof is in the Bill
of Rights. The founding fathers used not one but
two amendments (IX and X) to say that most mat-
ters were not constitutional and could be deter-
mined on an individual basis by the people or in
the various states by their legislatures.

Consider:

1) In our democracy most issues are settled by
majority vote of the people or of our elected
representatives.

2) The Constitution invalidates majority opi-
nion where specific rights are dealt with in the
amendments (only the writ of habeas corpus is in
the body of the Constitution).

3) The Ninth and 10th Amendments say the
framers had no intention of making the Constitu-
ion all-powerful regarding every imaginable right.

4) Article V provides for modification of the
Constitution by two-thirds of the Congress and
three-fourths of the states—which suggests that
Jefferson and Madison are turning in their graves
as the same thing is accomplished by one swing
vote of nine justices.

I would rest my case but a little knowledge
(dangerous?) which I have cries out for expression.
In Psycholinguistic terms, the Constitution is an
utterance—the words on the pages. The locution
Of those words is their literal meaning. The illocu-
tion is the meaning intended by those who set them
down in the first place. So far so good, but in
Psycholinguistics there’s one more step:
Perlocution—the meaning of the words as per-

ROBERT THOMAS OSMOND, ’73L, of Mor-
ris Plains, N.J., died in February 1989. He held
degrees from Niagara University and James
Madison University and had worked as the
manager of data base reporting at GPU Nuclear
in Parsippany, N.J.

DOUGLAS MCMASTER JACKSON, ’79, of San
Francisco and Atlanta, died June 14, 1990. He was
a partner in a San Francisco printing business.
Jackson was senior warden at All Saints Episcopal
Church and was active on the mayor’s Interfaith
Shelter Program Committee.

DANIEL JOSEPH RASKIN, ’81, a member of
the Chestnut Ridge (Md.) Volunteer Fire Co., died
July 16, 1990, after being injured during a fire.
Raskin joined the fire company in 1978 and had
reached the rank of first lieutenant, the second-

highest position in the 45-member company. He
was employed full time investigating accidents for
the National Transportation Safety Board. He had
investigated the Exxon Valdez oil spill and a school
bus crash in Texas last year. Raskin held a master’s
degree from the University of Baltimore.

 

Friends

MARY HOLMES GREER SENSABAUGH, a
member of the Washington and Lee staff for 23
years, died June 13, 1990. She moved to Lexington
in 1956 when her husband, the late Leon F. Sen-
sabaugh Jr., became dean. In 1961 she went to
work in W&L’s alumni office and was named of-
fice manager of the development office in 1969.
She retired in 1984 and continued to work part
time until January 1985.

 

 

 

Letters to the Editor

 

ceived by the reader. Through perlocution our
Constitution is constantly revised by any Supreme
Court justice who can rally four others to his in-
terpretation. Such behavior is not constitutional
law but judicial legislation, and legislation is the
purview of the elected bodies of the Congress as
specified by Article I Section 1.

That taxation is the purview of the most recent-
ly elected representatives is made clear by Section
7 of Article I, ‘‘All bills for raising revenue shall
originate in the House of Representatives.’’ Find-
ing constitutional a judge mandating taxation, and
ruling unconstitutional majoritarian laws of 48 (7?)
states and the Congress protecting Old Glory—
our Stars and Stripes—are the petards on which
this court has hoisted itself. Mr. Yoder’s worship-
ful attitude toward the Court is not justified by
their random ‘‘perlocuting’’ 5-4 decisions. He says
that members of Congress are frightened, and in-
deed they should be as should we all; but not of
tampering with the First Amendment as he sug-
gests, but of the loose cannon on our rolling
deck—the Supreme Court.

Dr. MARVIN L. Daves, ’48
Denver, Colo.

EDITOR:

Though I share many of the concerns Peter
Cimmino, ’74, raised in his letter, ‘‘A ‘Changed’
University’’ [July 1990], perhaps it’s time for many
of us old grads who fondly remember W&L As
It Used To Be, to bite the bullet and accept the
W&L of the ’90s.

Forget, if you can, the shimmering beauty of
the campus, the party weekends and outings at
Goshen (Philippe Labro in his excellent novel, The
Foreign Student, captures those wonderful years
of the mid-1950s in Lexington and surrounding en-
virons). Since W&L has now become a different
university we have a choice.

Accept the fact that:

¢ Coeducation was market-driven and a done
deal by the trustees (discount the compelling Mills
College argument against coeducation).

¢ W&L will continue to wallow in Division
III and ignore the positive national recognition that
comes from intercollegiate sports competition at
the Ivy-League level.

e The University is committed to an expan-
sion program that will eventually change the school
from a specialty purveyor of education to one of
supermarket status.

The late Richard M. Weaver, that brilliant
Southern metaphysician, wrote in The Southern
Tradition at Bay: ‘‘The career of a gentleman is
being a gentleman. The social and educational
regimen of the Old South was accordingly to
prepare the fortunate for public life, to produce
men of integrity and decision, who could talk well
and wear the graces—not quill-drivers or
‘careermen’ of letters or explorers of the scientific
world.’’

At one time this might have been W&L’s
charter. Well, the Old South and W&L of earlier
decades have now Gone With the Wind (excuse
the play on words). Either we accept this fact or
we start telling friends, who inquire about our
undergraduate years, that we matriculated at
Sewanee or Hampden-Sydney.

S. Scott WHIPPLE, ’58
Madison, Conn.

EDITOR:

Perusal of another fine issue (July) of your
magazine impels me to write a long-deferred com-
plimentary letter. (Procrastination wasn’t offered
at W&L; I must have picked it up in grad school
at U.Va.)

The alumni magazine is a subject of discussion
whenever old grads get together. Clearly it is
among the best of its genus in the nation and that
is for all of us a source of pride more satisfying
and more reliable than, say, the dispatch of a foot-
ball team to the Gator Bowl.

DABNEY CHAPMAN, ’50
Shepherdstown, W.Va.

W&L 55

 

 

 

CLASS OF 1976

John Arnold
Ronald Atwood
Jeffrey Baker

W. Stephen Baker
Edward Bennett

Richard Vieser
Patrick White
Stephen White
Allan Will
James Yergin
Charles Zipp

Attention

Wé&L Alumni

William Neuenschwander
Howell Perkins

Morgan Pritchett

Alan Ruley

Robert Sisk

Lawrence Weiner

Do You Know
Anyone Listed Here e “unlocated” in

George Clark
Conrad Coffield
Christopher Cull
Andrew Dickens
Edward Durner
Edward Fisher
Joseph Gravlee
Ronald Harr
Darrell Havener
Kenneth Holda
G. Brock Johnson
David Jones
Mark Kane
Robert Lee

John Lopategui
Kenneth Luskay
Roy Martin
Kenneth McCreedy
Leland McCullough
Daniel McGinn
James Miller
David Minton
Timothy Moore
Robert Murchison
Robert Orkin
Bryan Parker
William Ripley
lan Rodihan
William Rudy
David Saltzman
Scott Silverlight
Hugh Sisson
Peter Symolon
James Telling

C. Allen Tharp
Gary Vanhassent

CLASS OF 1981

Wayne Atchison
James Bertron
Jeffrey Blanchard
J. Ward Boult
Thomas Breentes
Julian Breslin
James Campbell
Arthur Cantler
Karl Cheatham
Todd Chisholm
John Dorsey
Bennett Easton
George Echols
Clarke Edgar
David Edward
Michael Farrand
Marc Firestone
Richard Formato
David Harris
Lesley Heart
John Helms
James Hicks
Robert Holliday
Richard Hoy
James Hurley
Victor Jaramillo
Edward Johnson
Craig Kennelly
William Lyons
Kevin McCormack
Louis McDonough
Brian McMahon
Scott Michaels
Thomas Modjeski
Richard Morrison

CLASS OF 1981L

Jeffrey Deboer
Robert Donovan
Virginia Reilly

CLASS OF 1986

Wesley Boatwright
Curtis Breithaupt
James Culnane
Edward Davis
Peter Dillard
David Dodd
Donn Duncan
Aubrey Ellis
James Grimsley
Timothy Higgins
John James
Robert Kirkland
Mark Machonis
Michael McAlevey
Kelvin Newsome
David Nichols
John O'Neill
Michael Phillips
Karl Smith
Thomas Spilsbury
Jason Squiers
Patrick Valder
Peter Van Der Meid

CLASS OF 1986L
Charles Richards

 

The individuals
whose names
appear on
this page

are listed as

W&L’s alumni
records. If you
have a current

address for any
of these alumni,
please do us—
and them—a big
favor and send
word to the

Alumni Office,

Washington and
Lee University,

Lexington, VA

24450. Thank

you so much!

 

56

W&L

 

 

econmunsgs ‘oC

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

12:10 p.m.

12:00 NOON

12:30 p.m.

2:00 p.m.

3:30 p.m.

6:30 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

9:00 p.m.

 

ce

10:30 a.m.
11:00 a.m.
11:30 a.m.
Noon-2:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
4:30 p.m.

Friday, October 12

The John Randolph Tucker Lecture
Thomas D. Morgan - Oppenheim Professor
George Washington University National
Law Center

Memorial Service: Honoring the 120th
Anniversary of General Lee's Death

Luncheon for Five-Star Generals,
Alumni Board of Directors, ACAP Panel
Participants and their spouses

Five-Star Generals Panel Discussion

ACAP Panel Discussion:

Transition into the World of Work: A
conversation between recent graduates and
current students

Reception for all Alumni
Honoring the Five-Star Generals and the
1990 Homecoming Queen Court

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

Concert sponsored by the Student Activities
Board

Saturday, October 13

Concert: W&L Choral Ensembles
including JubiLee and Southern Comfort

Cluster Reunion Program

Women’s Soccer vs. Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College

Alumni Luncheon

Women’s Tennis vs. Swarthmore

Men’s Soccer vs. Virginia Wesleyan
Football: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney

Alumni Reception

OCTOBER
12-13

 

 

Five-Star Generals’
Reunion

Cluster Reunion
For the Classes of 1987, '88, '89,

a and '90 a

 

 

For more information write:

Homecoming ’90
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

i

CELEBRATING COMMENCEMENT—Decked in full academic regalia, Woody Heath,
90, and Professor Lamar Cecil say goodbye on Pa ALLL

 

 

Non-Profit Ore.
U.S. Postage |
PAID ao
Permit No. 623g | |
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

a

o——_

