the alumni magazine of washington and lee university JANUARY 1981

Co

SOCIETY AND THE PROFESSIONS: STUDIES IN APPLIED ETHICS

 

 

 

 

 

Im

A $200,000 CHALLENGE GRANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

Me

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 56, Number 1, January 1981

William C. Washburn, ’40 .......... 0. cece eee ee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ............ cece eee eens Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, 80 ..............ce cece eee ee ee Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .......... cece cece ceeeeeeee ees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ..............c cece cece e eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

A $200,000 Challenge ................ sc cee eee eee ence eens 1
Studies in Applied Ethics ................ccc ccc e eee ee eee 2
Students’ View of the Program ......................008. 8
Louis W. Hodges ...............cce sce e seen eee ee eee eeeeeeees 10
12th Rhodes Scholar ................cccce ees eeeeeee ee ee eens 11
WL Gazette 2.0... cece cece cece eee e eee e teen eee e ene 13
Herreshoff on Campus ................0cceeceeeeee eens eens 17
Chapter NeWS .............ccececececeeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeee es 19
Class Notes ..........cccccccceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeees 21
In Memoriam ...............eececeeee ee eeee eens eens eee eeeees 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD BAIN, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, '42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMES F.. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
OwEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RUSSELL LApD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
JoHN H. McCorMACK Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., 56, Crossett, Ark.

CS

ON THE COVER: Traditional symbols for law, medicine,
and journalism betoken Washington and Lee’s innovative
program ‘‘Society and the Professions: Studies in Ap-
plied Ethics.’’ The University has received a $200,000
challenge grant from the National Endowment for the
Humanities, which, matched 3 to 1, will provide an
$800,000 permanent endowment for the program. The
details begin on Page 1.

 

 

 

 

 

A $200,000 CHALLENGE

Matched 3 to 1, NEH Grant Will Add $800,000 in Endowment

‘The National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded Washington and Lee University a
$200,000 challenge grant to create a permanent endowment for the University’s innovative
program in applied ethics.

Under the challenge grant program, W&L will be required to raise $3 in new or increased gifts
to receive $1 in federal monies. That means the University must receive $600,000 in private
pledges by June 1983 to qualify fully for the NEH grant.

The resulting endowment, totaling $800,000 when completed, would be an integral part of the
$12.5 million the University needs in the final phase of its $62-million development program.

W&L’s ethics program, ‘‘Society and the Professions: Studies in Applied Ethics,’’ was begun
as an experimental project in 1972 and was developed under a three-year grant (1974-77) from the
Lilly Endowment.

Designed to integrate more effectively the liberal arts curriculum with specific pre-professional
training in journalism, law,.and medicine, the program seeks to make pre-professional
undergraduates more aware of the humanistic dimensions of the professions they seek to enter.

Additionally, the program serves to provide practicing doctors, journalists, and lawyers an
opportunity to explore more systematically basic ethical questions in their professions. This latter
feature involves annua] institutes in journalism, law, and medicine during which undergraduates
are joined by an equal number of practicing professionals for a three-day analysis of specific
problems in professiondl ethics. The arrangement has proven mutually beneficial.

Each Institute is highlighted by a public lecture given by a noted scholar or practitioner.
Recent lectures have included Professor Geoffrey Hazard of Yale Law School, Willard Gaylin,
president of the Hastings Institute, and Dr. Clifford G. Christians of the University of Illinois
School of Communications.

Designed and directed by Professor Louis W. Hodges, the program has been received
enthusiastically both by undergraduates enrolled in the term-long seminars and by those
professionals who have participated in the institutes.

The NEH challenge grant, announced in December, was one of 122 such awards made to
cultural and educational institutions across the country. The challenge grant program was
established by Congress in 1976 to help non-profit, humanities-oriented institutions generate new
financial support and are awarded on a competitive basis. W&L was one of 285 institutions which
applied to the program last year. The 122 recipients will receive a total of $7.9 million in federal
funds the first year, $9.5 million the second year, and $9.7 million the third year, for a total of
$27.1 million.

 

 

 

 

STUDIES IN APPLIED ETHICS

Undergraduates and Professionals Alike Benefit from W&L’s Innovative Program

This article was written from information furnished by
Louis W. Hodges, director of the program ‘‘Society and the
Professions: Studies in Applied Ethics.’’

Questions of ethics have been a central concern since the
dawn of civilization.

In both personal and professional decisions, people have
constantly to choose among relative goods or relative bads, to
resolve conflicts between equally important values, and to
find ways of choosing the relatively better over the relatively
worse course of action.

The search for more rational and effective ways of
identifying ethical issues and for a language to state them
Clearly is unending.

Modern professional life has forced a radical
reexamination of ethical choices and values. Professionals

 

6

*, . . the Institute brought into clear focus for
me both the many areas in which I have the
opportunity, if not the duty, to effect ethical as
opposed to unethical or non-ethical actions on
the part of others and the necessity for me to
confront ethical questions on an almost daily
basis in rendering services to my clients.’’

—Daniel H. Markstein III
Lawyer
Birmingham, Ala.

affect human life at its deepest and most important levels.

When medicine has access to the respirator, for example,
someone must decide when we should use it and when we
should quit using it—as in the case of Karen Ann Quinlan.
Doctors can now perform feats which can reshape not only
individual lives but also the life of our species.

Journalists, willy-nilly, shape our basic perceptions of the
world and thereby have a major influence on the way we
choose to act.

The law and lawyers are essential at virtually every point
where important values conflict, whether it be in matters of
child custody or in matters of serious crime.

In virtually all the professions, a rapidly expanding
technology and capacity to affect human beings deeply is
forcing us to examine as carefully as we can the values and
ethical principles which guide our use of newfound
capabilities.

 

‘*Being exposed to the issues discussed at the
symposium helps us put into perspective the
things we do daily. It is exciting to once again
be exposed to a group of students about to
embark on the second leg of medical

education. ’’

—Robert T. Schooley
Physician
National Institutes of Health
Bethesda, Md.

 

 

 

 

The Moot Courtroom in Lewis
Hall provides the setting for
discussions between lawyers and
their would-be successors:
participants in the Legal

Ethics Seminar.

At Washington and Lee, we are formally, not just
informally and sporadically, examining questions of ethics
and professional decisions.

The ethics program, called ‘‘Society and the Professions:
Studies in Applied Ethics,’’ was established in 1974.
Designed for pre-professional undergraduates in journalism,
law, and medicine, the program focuses on questions of
ethics in professional practice.

Though the program is designed primarily for
undergraduate pre-professionals, it does include an important
component of continuing education for professionals. We
provide an opportunity for about a dozen each of doctors,
journalists, and lawyers to participate annually in an
academic inquiry into matters of professional ethics. Not only
does the presence of professionals enrich student
understanding of ethical issues, but also the professionals
benefit from an opportunity—free from the pressures of
practice—to reflect systematically on crucial ethical issues in
professional practice.

 

‘In my view, the Professional Responsibility
or Ethics Seminar that yop sponsored got to
the heart of the matter. The caliber of your
students demonstrates the quality of the course
which you are offering.’’

—Justice William H. Erickson
Supreme Court of Colorado
Denver

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

There are several reasons for undertaking such an
educational program at the pre-professional level. One is
simply that the study helps students to understand
interrelationships among several academic disciplines.
Questions of medical ethics, for example, cannot be resolved
without knowledge of their technical, scientific, economic,
psychological, social, political, ethical, and religious
components. Recognition of the interplay of these several
dimensions in professional life is a crucial part of liberal
education.

A second reason for such studies at the undergraduate
level is that they afford the pre-professional student insights
into the non-technical elements of professional practice. Not
all professional schools provide such study. Moreover, for
journalists the undergraduate degree is often the terminal
degree. Students typically go from the classroom to the
newsroom without specific professional studies. Pre-medical
and pre-law students from Washington and Lee enter
professional school already alert to areas of professional

 

‘‘T found the students to be far more advanced
in their poise and their subtlety of thinking
than most people their age that I meet, and in
many ways they are far superior to many of
the law students we encounter. ”’

—Thorns Craven
Lawyer
Winston-Salem, N.C.

 

U.S. District Court Judge
Robert Merhige spoke on ‘‘The
American Denial of Right to
Counsel’’ at the 1976 Legal
Ethics Institute.

STUDIES IN APPLIED ETHICS

practice where value conflicts and ethical problems are most
likely to arise.

A third reason for the program is that it provides
undergraduates a unique opportunity to look at their intended
profession as a whole, to see how that profession is
organized, to discover the special roles and functions it plays
in modern life. In that connection, some students are helped
in their vocational choice. A few of our students each year,
for example, take the legal ethics course in order to gain a
better perspective on the practice of law toward the end of
deciding whether to become a lawyer.

‘*Society and the Professions’’ involves three interrelated
activities: undergraduate courses in professional ethics, a
lectureship, and a symposium called ‘‘Institute in Applied
Ethics.”’

 

‘*Participation in the Institute by its mere
existence provided the opportunity to reflect
on our day-to-day work and to put it into a
broader perspective of patient’s and society’s
needs. It is very easy to become wrapped up
in one’s work and not have the opportunity or
take the time to reflect on the significance of
what one is doing or how one is doing.”’

—John R. Burk
Physician
Montgomery, Ala.

»
SK,
\

COURSES: We offer one three-credit course annually in
the ethics of each of the threé professions—journalism, law,
and medicine. These courses are taught as seminars, normally
in the student’s senior year. They are of necessity inter-
disciplinary in character and, for that reason among others,
each is taught by two faculty members.

The courses are elective and carry three academic credits.
The course in journalism may be used by the student for
credit toward a major in that field.

Teaching strategy is case-based and utilizes methods of
faculty and student analysis of issues contained in practical
cases or professional practice. We seek, for example, to
identify the many dimensions of professional decisions,
including ideas, values, facts, reason, emotion, habits,
character, imagination, deliberation, principles, and prior
decisions. We seek not only to ask ‘‘What should the
professional do?’’ in some specific professional setting, but

 

 

**Whatever system of values I had loosely
related to ‘ethics’ was, I now suspect, rigid
and probably too simple. The Institute taught,
among other things, that the problem of ethics
in any field is much too complicated to be
solved by my ‘pre-Institute’ proverb-and-
slogan approach. ”’

—Joe Gilliland
The Roanoke Times

 

 

 

Students and journalists discuss
the Constitutional conflicts
between the First Amendment
(free press) and the Sixth
Amendment (fair trial) with
Atlanta Constitution editor
Harold Gulliver presiding.

also to ask ‘‘What should the professional take into account
and how might he proceed in deciding what he should do?’’
in that specific professional settings.

LECTURESHIP: In connection with each of the courses,
we sponsor a lecture delivered by a widely recognized
specialist in professional ethics. The University publishes
annually a booklet containing those lectures. The booklet is
sent free of charge to all Washington and Lee alumni

 

6

‘, . . the experience was invaluable, because
it has started some healthy thought
processes.”’

—Bob Inman
Jefferson Pilot Broadcasting

‘‘T think it is a good idea to step back now and
then and take a more dispassionate look at
what we are doing, and the Institute was an
excellent opportunity for that.’’

—Henry S. Chenault Jr. j
The Richmond News Leader

‘‘It was a most ambitious program of great
benefit to all of us.”’

—NMarvin E. Garrette
The Richmond Times-Dispatch

 

 

 

practicing in journalism, law, or medicine, and to all
professional school libraries in those three fields.

INSTITUTE: The University sponsors annually a three-
day symposium, called the ‘‘Institute in Applied Ethics,’’ in
each of the three fields. We invite to the campus a number of
practicing professionals who spend three days in seminar
with the undergraduate students enrolled in the course. The
students and professionals together inquire into issues of
professional life where professionals encounter conflicting
values and difficult moral choices.

Our educational goal, so far as the students are
concerned, consists of five interrelated objectives: (1) to
improve students’ analytic skills and their ability to use
reason as a tool for dealing with questions of ethics and

 

‘‘Participation in the Institute was of value to
me because it resulted in the realization of
how many areas there are in the matter of
legal ethics where opinions differ and where
firm conclusions are difficult to research. I
think perhaps more of this type of soul-
searching would be of benefit to the profession
generally.’’

—Howard W. Dobbins
Lawyer
Richmond, Va.

 

North Carolina Supreme Court
Justice James G. Exum makes a
point at the 1980 Legal Ethics
Institute. Exum, chairman of

the American Bar Association
Committee on Ethical Considera-
tions in the Prosecution and
Defense of Criminal Cases, spoke
on a lawyer’s response to his
criminal client’ s perjury.

STUDIES IN APPLIED ETHICS

competing values; (2) to enable students to identify more
precisely the ethical or value dimensions of decisions and to
discover a language for communicating those dimensions; (3)
to gain knowledge of different current perspectives and
arguments on the issues of professional conduct; (4) to gain
knowledge of bibliographic and other resources on the subject
of the ethics of their profession; and (5) to stimulate the moral
imagination or personal sensitivity to the human impact of
professional choice.

The rationale for the program and its goals involves a
number of assumptions and observations. Decisions in
professional life, and, indeed, in most human activities,
require two basic kinds of knowledge, quantitative-
descriptive and qualitative-evaluative. Of these two, the

 

‘“The Institute is exceedingly worthwhile for
physicians because it gives them the
opportunity to reflect upon the ethics of their
profession in the presence of a critical but
friendly audience. Most physicians in practice
are too busy for philosophical reflection. Your
Institute allows the physician to critically
examine the state of his profession.”’

—Melville P. Roberts
Physician
University of Connecticut
School of Medicine
Hartford

former has usually seemed more obtainable and, once
obtained, more firm, reliable, and verifiable. Qualitative
knowledge, on the other hand, seems (whether correctly or
not) to be more difficult to obtain and less certain. For these
and a variety of other reasons, people are frequently less
comfortable with decisions among competing values than
with decisions between alternative techniques or engineering
designs.

Part of the reason for that larger measure of discomfort
and uncertainty is that people often have greater difficulty
identifying and conceptualizing ‘‘values’’ than ‘‘things.’’ We
Americans do not commonly use our language very precisely
in articulating and analyzing the qualitative. Many believe,
arguably erroneously, that procedures for examining and
refining values and value conflicts are not as well established
as are their counterparts in the descriptive world of facts.

Perhaps one reason for these differences is that in our
society people spend more time and energy in systematic

 

‘‘T think Washington and Lee has taken an
excellent approach in efforts to mix practical
application with academic journalism study,
an approach which I feel will give students a
slight edge in pursuing a career in
journalism. ’’

—John H. Sorrells
The Augusta (Ga.) Chronicle

 

 

 

 

The Society and Professions
Director Louis W. Hodges opened
the 1980 Journalism Ethics
Institute with comments on how
one might approach ethical and
moral questions.

study of the more empirical subjects. But it may well be the case
that quantitative, descriptive or factual, knowledge is not
inherently more manageable than knowledge of values.
Indeed, the intellectual history of mankind demonstrates that
questions of human goals, values, and moral principles are
not nearly so amorphous and unmanageable as many
Americans assume them to be. Language and procedures do
exist by which analytic reason can be put to use in examining
issues involving human values and in justifying decisions
about values.

 

“To my mind, the most important thing which
emerges from a successful conference, such as
ours, is the realization that ‘pat’ answers and
formal positions rarely cope adequately with
the complexities of the issues at hand. Our
tendency in this profession is to be so
overwhelmed with minutia that we fail to see
day-to-day decisions in a broader context of
ethical responsibility. As clinicians, practicing
attorneys’ thoughts frequently ossify on these
important questions, and it is of great value to
crack the rigidity somewhat.’’

—Ralph Smith
Lawyer
Washington, D.C.

 

There are several areas in which we hope to improve the
existing program in the future.

For one, we have wanted to expand the program to
include two other fields—the ethics of science / technology
and business ethics.

We are also contemplating a method of enriching the
Institute. Experience has shown that ethical issues in the
several professions are similar in important ways and
dissimilar in other ways. In view of that fact, several visiting
professionals have suggested an annual multi-professional
Institute made up of journalists, doctors, and lawyers, along
with pre-professionals in all three fields.

Lastly, we need to provide opportunities for our faculty to
keep abreast of developments in ethics and in the teaching of
ethics in American higher education.

 

‘*Because of this Institute I have been able to
renew some ethical commitments I made when
I first started work that have been dulled by
time. Again, I think I am approaching my
work from an objectively critical standpoint.
This is in part due to the opportunity to get
away from a work situation and discuss these
questions with journalists who have found
themselves in similar situations.’’

—tLawson H. Marshall
Lynchburg News

 

 

 

Medical ethicist Dr. Arthur L.
Caplan (left), an associate at
Columbia University’s College of
Physicians and Surgeons, led a
discussion at the 1980 Medical
Ethics Institute.

Dr. Willard Gaylin, president of
the Institute of Society, Ethics and
the Life Sciences at Hastings-
on-Hudson, N.Y., presented
material from his book Who
Speaks for the Helpless Child? at
the Medical Ethics Institute in
1977.

THE STUDENT VIEW

Recent Graduates Discuss What They Gained From Participation in the Program

 

by William H. Matthai Jr., ’80

Medical Ethics:

‘. . . course is a tremendous asset’

William H. Matthai is a first-year student at the
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine.

In his day-to-day practice, a physician will be called on to make
many ethical decisions. Most will lead to a very easy and clear-cut
choice; some may be so difficult that we will never know the
‘‘correct’’ answer. Washington and Lee’s biomedical ethics course,
in which I participated last spring, allowed a group of students to
discuss some of these issues and to prepare themselves better to
make the ethical decisions they will face.

The class was limited to 15 students. Most of the term was
spent on student-led seminars. Each of us chose a pertinent topic—
abortion or the allocation of scarce medical resources, for
instance—and was given a class period to examine that topic. In
general, hypothetical cases were presented for discussion after an
introduction into the theoretical issues at hand. The course
concluded with a Medical Ethics Institute that brought ethicists,
theologians, physicians, laymen, and the class together for a
weekend of seminars, presentations, and discussions.

This course was very beneficial. Two aspects, each distinctive
to W&L, made it especially so: the small size of the classes and the
Medical Ethics Institute.

Our class had the ideal number of participants. It was small
enough that each of us could contribute freely, but large enough to

 

have sufficient breadth of opinion. Given a problem to solve, each
student was able to choose what he perceived to be the best course
of action after having seen the strengths and weaknesses of the
several choices from many points of view and having had an
opportunity to discuss them thoroughly. This process would be
impossible from the back of a lecture hall, but it is important if an
acceptable conclusion is to be reached.

The Medical Ethics Institute, which again would have been
impossible with a larger class, allowed us to move beyond the
hypothetical. We were able to explore issues in even greater depth
as we now had the benefit of the experience of practicing physicians
and professional medical ethicists and theologians. Although the
weekend was primarily for the students, everyone who participated
in the Institute profited from this great opportunity to address
ethical issues that can never receive too much attention.

W&L’s biomedical ethics course is a tremendous asset. There
are few other colleges or medical schools, if any, that can offer a
course that combines small size, qualified students, experienced
professors, and anything similar to the Medical Ethics Institute as
W&L so successfully has done. While the course never pretended to
offer all the answers, it did ask the right questions, stimulate my
thoughts, and direct me toward solutions of critical bioethical issues
that I will face as I progress through medical school and into the
medical profession.

 

by Sidney S. Simmons II, ’ 80

Legal Ethics:

‘. . . left with a sense of responsibility’

Sidney S. Simmons is a first-year student at the University of
Florida School of Law.

I found that the Legal Ethics Seminar is concerned with two
things: the ways in which being a member of the legal profession
presents individuals with unique problems and the ways in which
very common questions of ethics are addressed differently from
within the legal profession. In short, the thrust of the seminar is
how persons who also happen to be lawyers reach difficult
decisions.

8

 

The American Bar Association has recently required all law
students to take a course in professional responsibility. The course
usually consists of learning the Code of Professional Responsibility
that governs the legal profession and applying it to hypothetical fact
Situations. The undergraduate legal ethics program at Washington
and Lee goes far beyond most law school efforts. For starters, there
is nothing sacred about the Code. The day when law students will
have to know the Code to pass their bar exams is years not months
away.

Instead of being concerned with precisely what the Code says,

the Legal Ethics Seminar at W&L focuses on the metaethical issues
of why there is a code at all, how it came into being, and what
viewpoints it reflects. The emphasis is directed towards the
deliberative process all persons go through in making important
decisions. Each student studies a particular topic in depth and then
leads the class in a discussion of it. In the end, the viewpoints
expressed and the positions taken can be surprising to the student.

As in most ethics classes few problems are fully resolved. What
is arrived at is a fuller understanding of what goes into reaching a
decision and the impact such decisions have on others. More than
anything else what is left with the student is a sense of
responsibility. By developing the tools to reach and evaluate moral
decisions we can become more responsible regardless of our
particular profession.

One aspect that adds interest to the program is that not all
participants are interested in becoming lawyers. This reflects the
program’s philosophy that decisions are not made in a vacuum.
Because a problem is considered legal in nature does not mean that
only those familiar with the law are qualified or interested in
studying it. The questions posed in the seminar and the skills
developed extend far beyond the practice of law.

The highlight of the program is the Institute, two-and-a-half
days of discussions with practicing lawyers. The attorneys help

bring to life some of the issues discussed earlier in the course. What
is gratifying to the students is the intense interest shown by the
participants in the questions posed to them. By the end of the
Institute, there is an exciting exchange of opinions and ideas. While
the students are grateful for the lawyers’ candor and experience, the
attorneys are equally grateful for the chance to address and be
challenged on issues that are too often neglected.

Some people unfamiliar with the legal ethics program of
Washington and Lee might be skeptical about its being taught at the
undergraduate level as opposed to law school. After having spent a
semester in law school, I doubt it could be any other way. It is
often said that law school is a narrowing experience. While this
may not be completely true, to a first-year student it often seems
that an extra-legal answer is worse than no answer at all. The legal
ethics program, while addressing issues on the legal profession, has
much broader goals. The diversity of ideas, opinions, and
disciplines from which it draws and to which it contributes make it
more compatible with the goals of a liberal arts education. Of
course, there is another reason why such a program is less suited to
a law school curriculum. As one of the participants in the Institute
commented rather facetiously: ‘‘There’s no way we could have had
this open an exchange with law students. Everyone knows that no
one knows more than a law student!”’

 

by Robert F. Hedelt Jr., ’78

Ethics of Journalism:

", . . 12 weeks helped raise the red flag’

Robert F.. Hedelt is a reporter for the Free Lance-
Star in Fredericksburg, Va.

The situation looked a whole lot simpler that morning, before a
few nagging facts and the damned ethics of it all snuck in.

The story seemed straightforward at first glance—a local official
sits idly by while cronies put his brother on the county payroll for a
comfortable yearly salary. Visions of headlines and bylines danced,
heady stuff for a newcomer to the staff struggling to match seasoned
competition from the north.

As usual there was more to it, that extra ounce or two of fact
and humanity which melts the bold black and whites to a trying
gray.

The hired brother had just suffered a serious heart attack, and
had been forced to leave his job as a top supervisor in Washington
high-rise construction. He was 52 and had a degree in engineering,
30 years experience and a family of six to keep in food and
textbooks. Now he was a medical risk and needed the slower pace
this county inspector’s job offered.

The official brother pleaded to go easy on the story. He never
would have considered letting the hiring go through except for the
medical problems, he said, adding that the county was getting a
good man at a bargain price. To do anything else, in his words, was
to quicken his trip to the grave.

The temptation was there to blow the official out of the water.
Everything hammered into the head of a journalist through school
and on the job about public trust and watchdogs screamed for a
righteous, indignant story.

But somewhere on the other side of the dusty recesses of my

 

brain, another voice asked for mediation. That call had been
planted there a year before in a morning session of a college class,
where a gaggle of sleepy-eyed and slow-brained seniors pontificated
about ethics and morals and other things they had never faced in the
real newspaper world.

A few things stuck from these discussions—(1) There’s seldom
going to be bona-fide right, so just try to be the least wrong. (2)

Any decision, including the one to do nothing, has its ethical and
moral components. Line up the pluses and minuses and even then,
follow your gut feeling.

While journalists suffer and sweat and call great convocations to
discuss the big ‘‘ethical questions’’ of the day—everything from
advertising throwaways to protecting sources—they waste precious
little worry making dozens of daily decisions that affect both their
readers and newsmakers themselves.

In this instance, my answer was a compromise. Instead of a
story dealing entirely with this brother’s hiring, I did a more
comprehensive piece on controversy surrounding several new
employees who were hired under less than kosher circumstances.
This brother was mentioned high in the story, as were his family
link and the breach of county policy that was created. His
qualifications and experience were also pointed out.

Second thoughts finally dictated this approach. I’d like to think
that just maybe, those 12 weeks in Reid Hall studying the ethics of
journalism—to do nothing but stop and think through similar
situations—might have helped to raise the red flag. Stop and think
about this just a minute. There’s more involved here than just filling
the bottom of the page.

by P. Craig Cornett, ’80

LOUIS W. HODGES

Program Director Reflects on Societal Ethics and His Feelings About W&L

It is often said that children imitate their
parents, and, it would seem, academic pro-
grams reflect something about their founders.
This is particularly true for Washington and
Lee’s unusual Society and the Professions pro-
gram in pre-professional ethics and its academic
father, Dr. Louis W. Hodges. Hodges, like his
program, is unusual in many ways: an ordained
Methodist minister from a small town in Mis-
Sissipp1 with a Ph.D. in Christian theology and
ethics; a man who finds satisfaction and interest
in the natural symbiosis and aesthetic symmetry
of the honeybees he raises as a hobby; an ar-
ticulator and leader in the field of ethics educa-
tion; a man with a passion for hunting who is
also a licensed gunsmith; one of W&L’s most
popular and respected professors. A man of
such diverse interests and talents is a great ad-
vertisement for a program that is itself diverse
and interdisciplinary.

‘*Programs like this are desperately needed
in American higher education because of the
very nature of our departmental division,’’ says
Hodges. ‘‘We need to help people synthesize,
to pull together knowledge; to help people see
the world whole again and not merely as a
chemist or a political scientist or a journalist.
Ethics, like the world itself, is interdisciplinary
and we need more of this type of interdiscipli-
nary discourse.”’

Hodges came to W&L fresh out of Duke
graduate school in 1960 and has been here ever
since. After teaching courses in Christian ethics
for several years (and, on more than 30 occa-
sions, an introduction to the Old Testament) he
became convinced that students were more in-
terested in applied rather than theoretical ethics.
As a result he began using cases and applied
issues as an entre to theoretical concepts. With
increased interest in interdisciplinary and in-
terdepartmental kinds of courses in the early
°70s, and with W&L’s own institutional
philosophy that liberal learning and profes-
sional education go hand-in-hand, Hodges
found it to be the perfect time to intitiate a
program in pre-professional ethics in journa-
lism, law, and medicine. The result came in
1974 with the establishment of ‘‘Society and
the Professions: Studies in Applied Ethics.”’

Since academic communities are somewhat
removed from the day-to-day workings of doc-
tors, journalists, and lawyers, the idea of
bringing the professionals themselves to the
campus during each course came next. Hodges

10

 

Louis W. Hodges

believes this is the most significant part of the
program. As it has turned out, the professionals
benefit by having the opportunity to return to
the ivory tower and reflect on the kinds of
problems they face and, at the same time, be
exposed to other professionals and students who
may one day be their colleagues or successors.
Society and the Professions was a landmark
program, the first of its kind. Similar programs
dealing with professional issues for pre-pro-
fessional students are now in existence around
the country, and Hodges, because of his work
at W&L, assists professors from other institu-
tions who want to begin similar programs. He
has participated in workshops sponsored by the
Hastings Institute for Society, Ethics, and the
Life Sciences in New York, the major center
for the study of applied ethics in the United
States, helping people who want to begin
courses in ethics at their own schools, and edits
the annual Social Responsibility: Journalism,
Law, Medicine.

The success of W&L’s program has led toa
sense of permanence for it, principally because,
as Hodges states, ‘‘the issues with which we
deal, the concrete, immediate problems, will
change as society changes and as technology
changes in the professions. But the funda-
mental moral principles and methods of moral
analysis change very slowly and will undoubt-
edly remain constant for our lifetime.

‘Every society has to have some way to
determine what its goals are, to shape and ad-
judicate its values—that’s part of the human
condition. We have a situation where the need

for ethics will remain constant, but the percep-
tion of the need will wane.’’ Hodges believes
public interest in the study of ethics is high at
present, but predicts that will not be the case in
the next decade.

Without a sense of permanence, in terms of
finances and personnel, Hodges believes the
program is likely to collapse. ‘‘But,’’ he con-
tinues, ‘‘if we do have an on-going program, it
can, in part, generate in the student body,
among our alumni and in the professions sys-
tematic study of applied ethical issues.’’
Hodges sees the need to expand the program to
two other areas that would touch large numbers
of W&L students: business ethics and the ethics
of science and technology.

Students who have participated in a course
in legal or medical ethics or the ethics of jour-
nalism respond almost universally: they find it
one of the best courses they had during their
entire undergraduate career at W&L. ‘‘That’s
because each course is a “‘both/and’ intellectual
activity’ says Hodges. ‘‘It requires the student
to extracate himself from the narrower confines
of the discipline and to look at human beings in
an interdisciplinary way.”’

As a top-notch scholar and professor,
Hodges could undoubtedly be doing research
and teaching in a large graduate program, yet
he remains at W&L because, as he puts it, ‘‘in
graduate schools one has all kinds of oppor-
tunities to deal with ideas, issues, books, but
very little opportunity to deal with human
beings as human beings. Issues that disem-
body people are worthless, and certainly not
exciting.”

While recognizing the importance of that
kind of research, which he says we all depend
on, Hodges nevertheless has greater personal
interest and desire to have close association
with human beings and consequently prefers
life at W&L. ‘‘I started out with intentions to
enter the parish ministry, but while at Duke
Divinity School I discovered that I would prefer
to teach rather than be in a local parish,’’
Hodges says.

‘*T have the best of both worlds here. I can
do all in the world I’d like in terms of research
and simultaneously enjoy the excitement and
pleasure of being with developing minds.’’

As persons who have participated in the
Society and Professions program in applied
ethics will testify, the pleasure and excitement
was all theirs.

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Associate Editor

ALABAMA
SENIOR

IS W&L’S
12TH
RHODES
SCHOLAR

Jogger and Violinist
Heads for the Physics
Laboratories of Oxford

 

Edward A. Johnson (right), W&L’s most recent Rhodes Scholar, with one of his physics professors,
H.. Thomas Williams Jr.

Edward A. Johnson, a Washington and
Lee senior, has become the University’s 12th
Rhodes Scholar and its fourth in the last 10
years.

Johnson was one of 32 men and women
from throughout the nation awarded the
coveted scholarships in December.

And while one television interviewer in
Johnson’s hometown of Huntsville, Ala.,
was apparently under the impression that the
Rhodes is somehow connected with the
Nashville Sound, Johnson’s area of expertise
is actually physics, not country-western
music.

He will graduate this spring with two
separate degrees—a B.S. in physics and a
B.S. in mathematics—and will spend at least
two years of study in physics at Oxford
University in England starting in October.

Not long after he had won the scholarship
after a regional interview in New Orleans,
Johnson was interviewed by a reporter whose
knowledge of the Rhodes was limited to one
of its former (but certainly one of its more
visible recipients)—country music singer-
songwriter Kris Kristofferson.

‘*Since Kristofferson was the only
Rhodes Scholar the interviewer had heard of,
I was asked how it felt to be on my way to a
Career aS a country music entertainer,”’
recalled Johnson.

Happily, that question was asked—and
answered—before the cameras started
rolling.

The Kristofferson connection
notwithstanding, Rhodes Scholars have
traditionally been associated, in the public
mind leastways, with achievement in
athletics. (It should be duly noted, too, that
Kristofferson was a football player of some
renown at Pomona College before he started
pickin’ and singin’).

When Cecil J. Rhodes, British colonial
pioneer and statesman, created the
scholarships, one of his requisites for
recipients was that they demonstrate
‘‘physical vigor, as shown by fondness for
and success in sports.”’

As tradition has it, an Oxford don once
put the scholarship in perspective during a
conversation with a Rhodes Scholar who had
just arrived at Oxford from the United States.

11

RHODES SCHOLAR

‘*Let me see if I have this right,’’ said the
don. ‘‘A Marshall Scholar is more clever,
but a Rhodes Scholar can run faster. Is that
it?”’

According to Johnson, however, that
popular conception of a Rhodes Scholar as
an All-American quarterback does not
necessarily hold true nowadays—if, indeed,
it ever did.

‘*There is not the jock emphasis now that
there was 10 years ago in Rhodes
competition,’’ Johnson observed. “*You do
have to have some jock credentials. But the
day is gone when a Phi Beta Kappa key and
a football captaincy automatically translate
into a Rhodes scholarship.’’

For his part, Johnson demonstrates his
‘‘physical vigor’ by jogging religiously,
teaching swimming, and sailing—all of which
were apparently vigorous enough for the
Rhodes committee.

**T had been somewhat worried about my
athletic background when I began pursuing
the Rhodes,’’ admitted Johnson, who
represented his home state of Alabama in the
competition and was one of four winners in
the six-state Gulf district (Alabama,
Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma,
and Arkansas).

**In New Orleans during my final
interview, I was asked about organized
sports and what I thought of them. I
suggested to the interviewers that I was more
likely to continue my jogging and swimming
at Oxford than a football player would be to
continue playing football there. All I’ll need
is a pair of running shoes; a football player
would need 21 other football players and a
good deal of equipment. ’”’

If that argument did not sufficiently sway
the interviewing committee, then Johnson’s
intimate knowledge of violin bows must
have.

‘*In an earlier interview in Birmingham, I
was asked at some length about the details of
violin bow construction and how it had
changed over the centuries,’’ said Johnson,
who happened to be well-versed in that
particular subject since he is a violinist.

‘*T think what impressed me most about
the interview process was the incredible
breadth of knowledge they expect from the
candidates. It seemed to me that, more than
anything, they were seeking people who can

12

 

take widely divergent ideas and play with
them. My final interview in New Orleans,
for instance, lasted 50 minutes, but included
only two questions specifically about
physics.”’

The other questions ranged from one
about the relationship between technology
and science to Johnson’s favorite inquiry of
the proceedings: which idea is more
important to mankind relativity or the
resurrection?

‘‘It would have taken at least half an hour
to compliment the fellow on the question
itself,’’ said Johnson.

Though the questions were all new to
him, the interview procedure itself was not—
thanks in large measure to W&L’s Graduate

 

His goal: an Oxford doctorate

Fellowship Committee, which staged a mock
interview to help prepare Johnson for what
awaited him along the way.

Professor William W. Pusey was
chairman of the mock interview committee,
which included Professor John M. Evans,
Professor George S. Whitney, and Professor
John M. Gunn.

‘*The practice interview is a service we
provide applicants for the Rhodes and any
other scholarships which include such an
interview process,’’ said Professor Edwin D.
Craun, chairman of the Graduate Fellowship
Committee. ‘‘We cannot, of course, predict
the exact questions a candidate will be asked.
But we try to create the same atmosphere and
ask the same general type of question

candidates will get in the actual interview.”’

Johnson, who will spend the winter term
working for academic credit at the Argonne
National Laboratory in Chicago under a
research grant, felt one of the most rewarding
benefits (the $16,800 annual stipend
notwithstanding) of his Rhodes experience
was the interaction among the candidates.

‘*There were 12 of us at the regional
interview in New Orleans. And we spent six
hours gnawing our fingernails in unison
while the committee deliberated,’’ Johnson
said. ‘“The group ranged from a Harvard
philosophy major to the top-ranking cadet at
West Point. Everyone there was so
impressive. It made for an extremely
interesting experience.’”’

Interesting, too, was the response
Johnson received in his hometown of
Huntsville. There was the customary round
of media interviews, talk show appearances
and the like.

But there were also some curious
telephone calls.

‘*T must have gotten a dozen crank calls
from people who had read the announcement
and apparently decided they wanted to get
into an argument with a Rhodes Scholar,”’
said Johnson. ‘‘Mostly, I obliged them. ”’

Johnson, who has a four-year ROTC
scholarship and has been active in
Washington and Lee’s ROTC program,
hopes to be able to get a year’s extension on
the scholarship in order to complete work on
a Ph.D. at Oxford.

His honors research project at W&L,
under the guidance of Professor Tom
Williams, is on the topic of theoretical
quantum mechanics. He ranks 14th in his
Class of 285.

Prior to Johnson, W&L’s last Rhodes
Scholar was Mark Bradley, an amateur
boxing champion who studied modern
history at Oxford after receiving his award in
1977. Bradley is now a first-year law student
at the University of Virginia.

Other former Rhodes Scholars from the
University include: Ralph Smith, ’73;
Marvin C. ‘‘Swede’’ Henberg, ’70; Timothy
Vanderver, ’65; John McLin, ’60; Robert O.
Paxton, ’54; Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’47;
Clarence Pendleton Lee Jr., ’32; Samuel A.
McCain, ’27; Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21; and
Francis Pickens Miller, ’14.

& GAZETTE

 

 

1929 Scholarship
fund completed

Washington and Lee’s class of 1929 has
completed a $50,000 drive it began a year
and a half ago to create a special scholarship
endowment.

Donations to the ’29 fund reached
$54,709 this fall.

Members of the class conceived the idea
of raising a permanent endowment for a schol-
arship fund in honor of the class in con-
nection with the class’s 50th reunion in May
1979. In the effort, the class members
sought gifts to the class fund that were in
addition to—not substitutes for—each
member’s gift to the University’s Annual
Fund. They expressed the hope that other
classes would follow their example and make
significant ‘‘extra’’ gifts at reunion time.

The idea seems to be working. Taking
their cue from the class of ’29, members
of the class of 1930 made a large ‘‘extra’’
donation to the University during their
reunion earlier this year.

Simpson is named
assistant dean

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, associate
professor in the art department, has been
named assistant dean of the College.

Simpson, who succeeds Edwin D. Craun
in the position, will assume the post Sept. 1.
Craun will return to teaching in the English
department after three years as assistant and
associate dean of W&L’s arts and sciences
division.

A Ph.D. graduate of the University of
Delaware in art history, Simpson earned her
B.A. degree from Gettysburg College and
her master’s from the University of Missouri.
Since joining the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1973, her fields of teaching have
included courses in 20th-century European
and American art and American, British and
continental architecture.

Simpson is co-author with Royster Lyle
Jr. of The Architecture of Historic Lexington,
published in 1977 by the University Press of
Virginia. The book won a national award
from the American Association for State and

°29 Scholarship; New Assistant Dean; Dormitory Renovation; Borland Unitrust

 

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, new assistant dean of the College

Local History. Currently, she is working
with Lyle on a sequel volume which will
explore the architecture of Rockbridge
County.

Simpson has received grants from the
National Endowment for the Humanities, the
National Endowment for the Arts, and the
Victorian Society in America in support of
her research.

Every winter since 1975, Simpson has
organized gallery exhibitions at Washington
and Lee, focusing on important works of art
in local public and private collections and
has edited exhibition catalogues for each of
them. She is also the editor of the
Southeastern College Art Conference’s
annual journal.

Craun, whom Simpson succeeds, is a
Ph.D. graduate of Princeton. An authority in
Renaissance literature, Craun joined the
W&L faculty in 1971.

Freshman dormitories
to be renovated

Renovation of the Graham-Lees freshman
dormitories have required a one-year
alteration in the patterns of student housing.

Actual plans for remodeling the freshman
dorms are expected to be approved by the
Board of Trustees at its meeting in either
February or May. Already, the Board has
authorized preparation of working drawings

and project specifications. Cost figures have
not yet been developed for the project which
is expected to require 15 months to
complete.

Under the housing plan which was
adopted by the Board, next year’s freshmen
will be housed in several different locations:
the University’s upperclass dorm, Davis; the
law students’ dorm, Baker; a house on Lee
Avenue owned by the University and now
used for housing upperclassmen, and rooms
on three floors of the Robert E. Lee Hotel in
downtown Lexington.

The Lee dorm was completed in 1904,
the Graham dorm in 1920. Both were
renovated and remodeled in 1941. The two
dormitories together house 241 freshmen and
16 upperclass counselors.

ERE aE EE:
Faculty activities

—Michael A. Pleva, associate professor
of chemistry, is co-author of a paper
presented at the Eastern Analytical
Symposium in New York recently. Entitled
‘‘A Scientific Instrumentation Information
Network,’’ the paper was written by Pleva
with Dr. Frank A. Settle Jr., chemistry
professor at Virginia Military Institute.

—Bruce Herrick, head of the economics
department, was recently appointed general
editor of a series of books on economics to
be published by Butterworths, a British

13

Lee GAZETTE

publishing firm. The series is entitled
Butterworths Advanced Economics Texts and
will be produced with the aid of an
international group of consulting editors.

—Betty Munger, manager of Washington
and Lee’s bookstore for 13 years, has been
named a judge in the poetry category for the
1980 American Book Awards, successor to
the National Book Awards program. The 11-
member jury will review more than 50
nominated volumes, and the awards will be
presented in the spring. Mrs. Munger is also
chairman of the 1980 awards committee of
the Virginia College Stores Association,
which will choose a ‘‘book of the year’’
written by an author currently a resident of
the state.

—Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law,
is co-author of a new law-school text, Legal
Interviewing and Counseling, the first
casebook in the field. The book presents
actual and simulated interviews that a lawyer
might encounter in the office in such areas as
domestic relations, estate planning, business
relationships and legal matters affecting the
elderly. Shaffer, dean of Notre Dame’s law
school from 1971 to 1975 and a former law
teacher there and at UCLA and Virginia, was
W&L’s Frances Lewis law scholar-in-
residence a year ago. He joined the law
faculty permanently last autumn.

Hanna succeeds Keefe
as news office head

Jeffery G. Hanna, a reporter for the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, has become director
of the University’s news office, succeeding
R. S. Keefe, who joined the international
management consulting firm of McKinsey &
Co., as an editor.

Hanna is a native of Bethany, W.Va.,
and an honors graduate of Oberlin College
with a major in religion. He attended the
Divinity School of Vanderbilt University
before joining the staff of the Nashville
Tennessean as a sports reporter in 1970 while
still a graduate student. In 1979, Hanna
moved to the sports staff of the Virginian-
Pilot.

At W&L, his principal duties will include
developing, researching and writing news
and feature articles for the University’s

14

 

Jeffery G. Hanna

alumni magazine as well as for the outside
media.

Hanna, 33, is married to the former
Nancy Walden. They have two sons,
Matthews, 4, and Patrick, 2.

Keefe, who had been in charge of the
University’s news operations for more than
10 years, will be based initially in
McKinsey’s Cleveland office, but will be
charged with developing an editorial
operation for the firm’s Toronto office,
covering its Canadian operations.

He is aB.A. graduate of Washington and
Lee with majors in political science and
history. He also took graduate study at
Vanderbilt and joined W&L’s
administration in April, 1970, after stints as
city hall reporter for the Milford (Conn.)
Citizen and as suburban bureau chief for the
Waterbury (Conn.) Republican.

A member of the National Press Club in
Washington and of three chapters of The
Society of Professional Journalists / Sigma
Delta Chi, Keefe is the southeast district
representative on the national Institutional
Relations (news bureau) Committee of the
Council for Advancement and Support of
Education. He is a member of the executive
board of the Rockbridge Historical Society
and editor of its newsletter.

eee

Mollenhoff is elected
Sigma Delta Chi Fellow

Clark R. Mollenhoff, professor of
journalism and Pulitzer Prize-winning
investigative reporter, was accorded one of
the highest honors that can be bestowed upon
a working journalist recently when he was
elected a Fellow of The Society of
Professional Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi.

Mollenhoff’s election to receive the
honor came at the organization’s 1980
national convention in Columbus, Ohio.

Others elected Fellows in 1980 were Red
Smith, Pulitzer Prize-winning sports
columnist for the New York Times, and
Clayton Kirkpatrick, president of the
Chicago Tribune.

Mollenhoff has now received virtually
every honor and award which can be
achieved in the nation’s journalism
community.

In addition to the Pulitzer he earned in
1958 for his investigations into racketeering,
he has received three other annual Sigma
Delta Chi citations for reporting, national
awards in honor of Heywood Broun, William
Allen White and Drew Pearson, a Nieman
fellowship, and honorary degrees from six
colleges and universities.

He joined W&L’s journalism faculty in
1976 after 30 years on the staff of the Des
Moines Register and Tribune.

 

31 graduate’s unitrust
honors aunt and uncle

Dr. Leonard C. Borland of Roanoke,
Va., a 1931 graduate of Washington and Lee,
has established a unitrust valued at $120,000
for the University.

Borland, a retired dental surgeon, made
the gift in honor of his late aunt and uncle,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. MacDowell.

To be known as the Borland-MacDowell
Teaching Fund, the unitrust consist of
securities in the Massachusetts Investors
Growth Fund.

A unitrust is a charitable trust which pays
income to the donor (or persons specified by
the donor) for life, after which the principal
reverts to Washington and Lee for a specific

College, now Washington and Lee, prior to
the war. He was a native of Natural Bridge.
The book is the eighth in a series of
histories Turner has published about the
Rockbridge area. A native of Louisa County,
Turner has taught at W&L since 1946.

.. - Around the campus

—The 1984 Mock Convention was
awarded a $25,000 gift from the Hatton W.
Summers Foundation of Dallas. The
foundation has made a similar grant to the
1980 convention.

—Néearly 100 high school students from
across Virginia attended a school newspaper
workshop in November. The day-long event
was sponsored by W&L’s student chapter of
the Society of Professional Journalists,

 

Portraits of Charles H. and Janet Borland MacDowell hang in the library, the gift of unitrust-donor

Dr. Leonard C. Borland, ’31. Sigma Delta Chi.

—WLUR-FM, the student radio station,
purpose. Such unitrust arrangements provide _at the Battle of Gettysburg. The letters, will be managed during the winter academic
a substantial tax deduction immediately, written chiefly between 1863 and 1865, were _ term by Daniel L. Weiss, a junior journalism
even though the principal of the trust mostly to and from women friends in major from Chevy Chase, Md.
remains with the donor until his death. Rockbridge County. —The Washington and Lee Concert

In addition to establishing the unitrust, Houston had studied at Washington Guild presented programs by the Eastman

Borland also donated portraits of his aunt and
uncle, Charles H. MacDowell and Janet
Borland MacDowell, to the University. The
portraits are on display in the University
Library.

MacDowell was instrumental in the
development of chemical plant foods in this
country and in the modern scientific
application of fertilizers to increase farmers’
income and the supply of fibers and foods.
He represented the chemical industries on the
American Commission to Negotiate Peace
after World War I.

 

Turner edits letters
of prisoner of war

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of
American history, is the editor of a volume
of letters written by a Confederate soldier
held prisoner by Union forces.

Entitled The Prisoner-of-War Letters of
Lieut. Thomas Dix Houston, the book has
been published by McClure Press.

Houston a held on J ohnson Island in Watergate-principal G. Gordon Liddy, ‘‘Contact’’ speaker in December, drew one of the largest
Sandusky, Ohio, after having been wounded _—_ audiences ever to pack Lee Chapel.

 

*

15

J cazerre

Trio in November and by the Theater
Chamber Players of Kennedy Center in
January.

—The Yueh Lung Shadow Theatre
presented a public performance under the

 

Alumni who died
in Asian conflicts

Below is a list of the names of
Washington and Lee men who lost their
lives in the Korean or Vietnam con-
flicts. If you know of any additions or
corrections, please call them to the at-
tention of Rupert N. Latture, Washing-
ton and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

KOREA

Crocker, Robert Warner, *52
Garvin, Robert Miller, 46
Glasgow, Francis Thomas II, °49
Horn, Robert Dodd, ’52

Lord, Leland Hume, ’41

Manch, Jacob Earle, ’43

Rouse, John Dashiell, 49
Thomas, Robert Harry, ’38
Todd, William Simmons Jr., ’46
Trammell, Herman Kerns III, ’50
Watson, James Milton Jr., °48
Weaver, Donald David, ’55
Wheelwright, Clarence Watson, °53
Wilson, Thomas Payne, *49

VIETNAM

Bonnet, Charles Christopher, ’65
Caspari, William III, °58

Crosby, Robert Barry, °68
Evans, Jon Price, ’37

Fortune, Robert Morrow, ’67
Johnston, Henry P. Jr., ’70
Kelly, Leo John Jr., °66

Luzis, John Peter Jr., ’70
Monroe, James Howard, ’66
Nalle, Thomas Alexander Jr., 54
Scharnberg, Ronald O., ’63
Smith, Louis Otey III, *58

Stull, Jay Webster, ’60

Suttle, Frederick Nicholas Jr., ’67
Toy, Walter Ludman, ’63
Verner, Scott Mitchell, ’65
Wood, James Schenler, 63

 

 

 

See

 

Two sides of the Yueh Lung Shadow Theater: manipulation of figures behind the screen (left) and the view

the audience receives out front.

joint sponsorship of W&L’s fine arts

in a national student conference sponsored by

department, the Asian studies program, and Business Today magazine and dealing with

the Arthur and Margaret Glasgow

Endowment for the creative arts in

the topic of public policy and private
enterprise. The conference was held in New

December. The nearly extinct Chinese art York and included, among other speakers,
form uses figures of colored and perforated lectures by former Secretary of State Henry
translucent animal hides which are Kissinger and former Secretary of Commerce
manipulated behind a back-lit screen. Juanite Kreps. Dwyer is an English major
—Kevin B. Dwyer and Joseph Robles, from Leesburg, Va. Nobles is a sociology

seniors at Washington and Lee, participated major from Vincentown, N.J.

 

Name Your Candidate

C. DuUBOsE AUSLEY, ’59

Chairman

Ausley, McMullen, McGehee,
Carothers & Proctor

P. O. Box 391

Tallahassee, Fla. 32302

Athletics.

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the
names and addresses of the Nominating Committee for 1980-81 are listed here:

The committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill four seats on the Alumni
Board of Directors and one vacancy on the University Committee on Intercollegiate

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Alumni Association may submit names of
alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination for the offices to be filled. Alumni
may send names directly to any member of the committee or to the committee through the
office of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at the University.

The committee will close its report on March 13, 1981, and present its nominations to
the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May 8, 1981.

CHARLES R. BEALL 56 EVERETT TUCKER III, ’72

Philip T. Seibert Vice President
Associates, Inc. The Commercial

P.O. Box 707 National Bank

Martinsburg, W.Va. 25401 P.O. Box 1331
Little Rock, Ark. 72203

 

 

16

 

 

 

 

 

 

Herreshoff Paintings
On Exhibit At ‘Home’

Nearly 100 paintings by the late artist Louise Herreshoff were
displayed at the recently refurbished duPont Gallery during January.

The Herreshoff paintings, which had their premier exhibition in
the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., in 1976, have
been shown in 24 museums and galleries in 16 states.

The paintings came to W&L in 1976 when the University
acquired a major collection of Chinese export porcelain from the
estate of Euchlin D. Reeves, a 1927 W&L law graduate. James W.
Whitehead, then-treasurer of the University and now secretary,
discovered the paintings one day while looking over several
unpacked crates that came to Lexington with the porcelain.
Whitehead, out of idle curiosity, wiped a wet cloth across the glass
covering one of the picture frames and found, as he later described,
‘tan explosion of color’’—a painting by Reeves’ wife, Louise
Herreshoff. There were dozens more—nearly 100 all together, all
part of the Reeves’ gift to his alma mater.

Though W&L owns the Herreshoff collection, there had been no
on-campus facility suitable for a comprehensive exhibition until the
art department’s duPont Gallery was refurbished. University
photographer W. Patrick Hinely provided this pictorial sample of
the show.

James W. Whitehead, who ‘‘discovered’’ the Herreshoff collection in 1967,
sits in front of the 1920 Herreshoff painting, Summertime Girl.

17

 

HERRESHOFF EXHIBITION

 

  

Top: W&L’s newly refurbished duPont Gallery provided the setting for 93 of the works of
Louise Herreshoff.

Right: Mrs. Marshall Fulton of Bristol, R.I., poses with a portrait of her mother, Edith Howe,
painted by Louise Herreshoff in 1897. Mrs. Fulton loaned the portrait to Washington and Lee
for the exhibit.

Above: More than 350 people attended a reception at the Alumni House in honor of the exhibit
and later heard a lecture by Mr. Whitehead on the life and work of Louise Herreshoff.

18

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

EASTERN KENTUCKY. The chapter made a visit to Keeneland
Race Track and had a cocktail party and luncheon at the Idle Hour
Country Club in Lexington on Oct. 14. An enthusiastic number of
alumni, wives and friends attended. Special guests included I. N.
Smith, ’57, ’60L, a member of the Board of Trustees, and Mrs.
Smith; Milburn K. Noell Jr., °51, ’"54L, development associate
from Memphis, and Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary.
Following brief remarks by Smith and Washburn, John R. Bagby,
°73L, chapter president, announced future plans for the chapter.
Bagby and Ben Walden, ’53, made the arrangements for the event.

ROANOKE. Southern Comfort, the informal singing group of the
W&L Glee Club, entertained alumni and guests of the chapter at a
cocktail buffet on Oct. 30. Directed by Dr. Gordon Spice of the
music department, Southern Comfort provided a program of old
standards and light musical entertainment. The gathering at the
Hunting Hills Country Club was the largest for the chapter in recent
memory with more than a hundred persons attending. Jay Turner,
°67, ’71L, president of the chapter, welcomed everyone and
introduced John Duckworth, ’71, regional development associate,
and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary. Turner and
Bruce Wilsie, ’72, chapter treasurer, were delighted with the
interest shown by area alumni and used the occasion to announce
future plans for the chapter.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA. The chapter hosted the
Piedmont Chapter for a tag football game at U.N.C. on Nov. 1.
Despite a cast on his left arm, Gil Bocetti, °54L, demonstrated the
pinpoint passing that many W&L fans remembered as he guided the
Eastern team to an early touchdown. The Piedmont team, led by
John Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, and Walton Clark, ’80, played strong
defense and came back to tie the game on the final play. Following
the game, both teams gathered for an open house at the home of
Mike Miles, ’68, president of the Eastern Chapter. New officers
were announced: Walter Lockhart, 69, president, and Greg
Crampton, 69, vice president. Holt Merchant, ’61, assistant
professor of history, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary, represented the University.

SAN DIEGO. Alumni gathered on Nov. 2 at the Jose O’Jara
Restaurant in Marina Village on Mission Bay to welcome Van Pate,
°71, associate director of admissions. Pate reported on his recruiting
efforts in the west and gave the alumni an update on events in
Lexington. Officers of the new chapter were elected: John
Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, president; Bill Wildrick, ’67, secretary, and
Max Elliott, ’60, assistant secretary. The chapter plans to hold
quarterly meetings and work with student recruitment. Interested
alumni in the San Diego area are encouraged to contact one of the
officers about involvement in the new chapter.

PHILADELPHIA. Area alumni gathered for their annual luncheon
meeting at the Racquet Club on Nov. 5. Wick Hollingshead, ’61,
hosted the event. Ned Coslett, ’70, chapter president, reported on
the alumni admissions program and encouraged volunteers to assist

 

EASTERN KENTUCKY—John Bagby, ’73L, chapter president, welcomes
alumni and guests at luncheon meeting at the Idle Hour Country Club.

ROANOKE—Gordon Spice of the W&L music department introduces Southern
Comfort, an informal singing group of the Glee Club, to assembled
Roanoke alumni.

 

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—‘‘Big Game’’ participants at U.N.C. are
(seated) Mike Miles, ’68; Greg Crampton, ’69; John Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L;
and Cathy Williamson; (standing) Walton Clark, ’80; Gil Bocetti, ’54L;
History Professor Holt Merchant, ’61; David Matthews, ’75; a U.N.C. walk-
on; Mitt Younts, ’72; Walter Lockhart, ’69; Chip Hoke, ’79, and another
Tar Heel.

19

 

CHAPTER NEWS

him. He also outlined plans for future chapter events and introduced
Bruce Lee, ’71, the new chapter president. The main speaker was
H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen at W&L. Huntley gave his
own candid observations of the difference between W&L and large
universities. He also provided the alumni with superb information
on how they could best encourage young men to apply to W&L.

DALLAS. More than 200 alumni, parents, and friends were
guests of Mr. and Mrs. John Stemmons, ’31, at the Northwood
Club in Dallas on Nov. 11. Following dinner, J. Harvey Allen Jr.,
°61, chapter president, recognized Rice Tilley, ’58, president of the
Ft. Worth Chapter, and those alumni who work diligently on the
admissions program. President and Mrs. Huntley were honored
guests and the President’s report on the University was
enthusiastically received. The meeting adjourned with Stemmons
and President Huntley leading the group in singing ‘‘College
Friendships.’’

HOUSTON. President and Mrs. Huntley were guests of the
chapter at a reception and dinner held on Nov. 12 at the Galleria
Plaza Hotel. After recognizing Thomas D. Anderson, ’34L, and F.
Fox Benton Jr., ’60, both members of the Board of Trustees from
Houston, W. B. (Buck) Ogilvie, ’64, chapter president, introduced
President Huntley, who reported on the major role Texas plays in
student recruitment and every other aspect of University life. Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, director of development, and W. C. Washburn,
alumni secretary, and Mrs. Washburn also attended the meeting.

SAN ANTONIO. President and Mrs. Huntley were honored
guests at a reception and dinner on Nov. 14 at the City Club of San
Antonio. A large number of alumni, parents and friends were
pleased to hear President Huntley’s report on the University. A
highlight of the program was President Huntley’s presentation of
the Distinguished Alumnus Award and citation to Houston H. Harte,
’50, who is chairman of the board of Harte-Hanks Newspaper Inc.
Also recognized were Thomas C. Frost Jr., ’50, a member of the
Board of Trustees, and R. R. Witt Jr., °12, one of the chapter’s
founders. Other representatives from W&L were Bill Washburn,
40, alumni secretary, and Mrs. Washburn. H. Drake Leddy, ’71,
president of the chapter, made the arrangements.

RICHMOND. On Nov. 19, the chapter held a dinner meeting at
the Bull and Bear Club. Officers elected were: Dave Redmond, ’66,
"69L, president; Lee Keiger, ’76, vice president; Bill French, ’73,
treasurer, and Mark Putney, ’78, secretary. Redmond announced
future plans for the chapter and urged alumni attending to bring
another alumnus to the next meeting. Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, spoke about the prospects for the University in the
eighties. Gary Dobbs, ’70, associate professor of biology, delivered
one of his uniquely entertaining talks on the special personal
approach of W&L in recruiting and counseling students. Justice A.
Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, a member of the Board of Trustees,
and Mrs. Compton were also in attendance.

20

 

 

PHILADELPHIA—Dean of Freshmen H. Robert Huntley speaks on W&L’s
admissions program; at head table are Ned Coslett, ’70; Bruce Lee, ’71;
Wick Hollingshead, ’61.

   

 

 

PHILADELPHIA—An attentive audience at the Racquet Club listens to the
remarks of Dean Huntley on alumni assistance in student recruitment.

tates”

eo

a,

je
Be

Je,
%,

ha” Cr
SS

2
KS

&,

oe se

RICHMOND—New officers are Lee Keiger, ’76, vice president; Bill French,
*73, treasurer; Dave Redmond, ’66, ’69L, president; Mark Putney, ’78,
secretary.

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 
  
 

Wi

ae o ze an

ae

  

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all occasions—
Christmas, birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory
of John Graham, ‘14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms __ All black lacquer
$102.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $87.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

1915

JUDGE MILLARD F. Hays, of Glendale, Ky., received
the Citizen of the Year Award by the Lions Club and
was named a Paul Harris Fellow by Rotary Interna-
tional in 1979. He was also named the first honorary
Life Member of the Harden County Board of Realtors
in 1978.

1921

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN of Philadelphia has been honored
as recipient of the Distinguished Service Award by
the American Psychiatric Association at its annual
meeting in San Francisco in May 1980. The award is
given to members ‘‘whose careers have enabled the
profession of psychiatry.”’

1925

Dr. HERBERT POLLACK of Upperville, Va., and
Washington, D.C., has received a tribute of ap-
preciation and a citation from the United States De-
partment of State. For the past five years Pollack has
been a consultant to the State Department to help
resolve the issues concerning the microwave illumi-
nation of the American Embassy in Moscow. This
appointment has been renewed with extended duties
in the field of environmental issues relating to health.
The ceremony was held on Sept. 23 in the medical
library of the State Department.

1927

RICHARD S. BARNETT, partner and general manager
of Elms Farming Co. in Altheimer, Ark. , was recently
featured in the Delta Farm Press because of the
nitrate monitored cotton which is being grown on the
Elms Farms.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON, an attorney in Meridian,
Miss., received the American Bar Foundation’s 1980
Fifty-Year Award, presented at the Foundation’s
annual banquet on Feb. 7, 1981, at the Galleria Plaza
Hotel in Houston, Texas. The award is presented to
the lawyer who, in accordance with the by-laws of the
Fellows of the American Bar Foundation, ‘‘. . . has
been engaged in the active practice of law for a period
of more than 50 years, during all of which time he has
manifested adherence to the highest principles and
traditions of the legal profession and of service to the
public in the community in which he lives.’’

1928

WILTON (BILL) GARRISON, who retired in 1967 after
20 years as sports editor of the Observer in Charlotte,
N.C., remains active by writing magazine stories and
taking part in church and community work. He
follows closely the Atlantic Coast Conference football
program as well as professional golf.

CoL. JULIUS GOLDSTEIN of Washington, D.C., has
been elected to the board of directors of the Washing-
ton Performing Arts Society.

JOSEPH J. KAPLAN, attorney in Louisville, Ky., has
received many honors for his outstanding civic lead-

21

   

Stuart Sanders, ’31, and wife on the Great Wall of China

ership and was recently honored by the Louisville
Committee of State of Israel Bonds. The bonds pro-
duce revenue for economic development in Israel.
Kaplan has been a member of the Metro United Way,
a director and counsel for St. Mary and Elizabeth
Hospital, a member of the executive committee of the
Louisville Bar Association and co-chairman of the
National Conference of Christians and Jews. Kaplan’s
local work was matched by his involvement in several
national organizations. He was vice president of the
midwest section of the National Jewish Welfare Board
and is now a member of the Zionist Organization of
America, the Labor Zionist Organization of America
and the Jewish National Historical Society.

1929

BENJAMIN P. KNIGHT JR. is retired from the railroad
but continues to own a general merchandise store in
Buena Vista.

Lewis F. POWELL Jr., Associate Justice of the United
States Supreme Court, received a Distinguished Vir-
ginian Award in December from the National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews at a brotherhood ban-
quet held in Richmond.

1931

PAUL ALLEN Hornor of Clarksburg, W.Va., presi-
dent of Hornor Brothers Engineers since 1937, ex-
pects to retire in 1981. He is also chairman of the
board of the Clarksburg Community Bank.

STUART SANDERS and his wife, Lina, recently toured
the Orient and made a visit to the Great Wall of
China. The tour, taken with a group of friends in late
October, included Hong Kong, Shanghai, Peking
and Seoul. They made trips to the Forbidden City, the
Summer Palace, and Peking University, where mem-
bers of the Sanders’ family taught during the 1930’s.

LEwIs F. POWELL Jr. (See 1929.)

1932

CHARLES H. BLAKE has staged a musical play in
Munich, his fifth in Germany. He has also had a play,
**The Mago,”’ in London.

Harry J. BURKE writes that he enjoys his retirement,
spending winters in Barbados, West Indies. ‘He plays
tennis and travels extensively.

H. W. MACKENZIE Jr., of Portsmouth, Va., has
been retired as circuit judge for six years. He enjoys
six months of the year at Nags Head, N.C., where he
fishes and swims each day.

JAMES S. POLLAK is the author of a book, The Jubilant
Delinquent. He lives in Sherman Oaks, Calif.

WILLIAM L. TEDFORD, after an absence of 51 years,
visited the campus in November. Tedford successfully
researched information about his ancestors who at-
tended Liberty Hall Academy prior to the American
Revolution.

22

   

P.H. Milner, ’36

1934

FRANCIS M. HOoGE is chief judge of the General
District Court of the 28th Judicial District of Virginia
—a position he has held since 1974. He is a former
mayor of Marion, Va.

GeorGE D. McCLvRE and his wife, Mary, expect to
cruise for three months in the Bahamas beginning in
March 1981. They will be on their yacht, the Mary
Mac V.

1935

After 20 years of extensive foreign travel, LEROY
HopGEs Jr. has retired from the foreign service of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. He lives in Rich-
mond, Va.

CHARLES F. Porzic of Upper Montclair, N.J., is
active in the American Association of Retired Persons
(AARP) and is a member of its board of directors.

1936

HuGH J. BONINO is chairman of the board of Crown
Metro, Inc., in Greenville, S.C. He retired in 1978
after 40 years in the chemical business, but after a
year’s retirement, he purchased his company again.

JOEL GRAYSON, after 25 years of service with Bio-
Lab in Atlanta, retired as vice president in October.
He will continue to work with the company in a
public relations capacity. Grayson joined Bio-Lab in
1955, soon after the company was founded and work-
ed in the poultry chemicals division specializing in
sanitation for poultry and egg producers. He invented
a Sanitizing system for bacterial control. Grayson has
been honored by the poultry industry as salesman of
the year, as a member of the Round Table, and as a
director of the Georgia Poultry Federation. He later
became active in the swimming pool chemicals divi-
sion. Grayson and his wife, Sara, have ason, Joel IV,
who is also an officer in the company.

PHILIP H. MILNER, retired executive vice president
of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. of New York
City, a member of its general administrative board
and assistant to the president, has been elected to the
board of directors of Mohasco Corp. of Amsterdam,
N.Y. Milner is currently a director of several com-
panies, including the Visiting Nurse Service of New
York.

GRAHAM F. PAINTER, a retired employee of the West
Virginia Department of Employment Security, enjoys
extensive travel with his wife, Ruth.

1937

EDWIN M. MakrKS Is retired as chairman of the board
of Goldsmith’s, a division of Federated Depi. Stores.
Marks and his wife do considerable charitable and
civic work and they take about three trips a year.

1938

JOHN H. SHOAF has been appointed consultant for

international development by the Houston Chamber
of Commerce. He also serves as director of the proto-
col committee for the City of Houston and as an
honorary consul of Guatemala.

ROBERT M. WHITE II, past member of the Alumni
Board of Directors and the distinguished editor and
publisher of the Mexico Ledger in Mexico, Mo., has
been named winner of the Herrick Editorial Award by
the National Newspaper Association. The Herrick
Award is in ‘‘recognition of editorials best reflecting
the most outstanding and unusual efforts made by a
newspaper to explain democracy to the people and
the everyday applications of the principles of de-
mocracy . . .’” White has previously won a number
of editorial contests and is one of three editors in the
nation to have won the National Society of Journalists
best editorial award on two occasions.

1939

JOHN D. GoopIn, a lawyer in Johnson City, Tenn.,
has been appointed city judge.

1943

J. TYLER (BUD) Bowle has resigned as president of
the Moss Creek Development Corp., a resort complex
owned and developed by the Mutual Life Insurance
Co. at Hilton Head Island, S.C. Bowie took a leader-
ship role at Moss Creek over two years ago after
having served as tournament director for the Women’s
International Golf Tournament for two years. He has
been responsible for many major steps in Moss
Creek’s development. The second 18-hole cham-
pionship golf course, Devil’s Elbow North, the ex-
pansion and redesign of the clubhouse and pro shop,
relocation of the tennis complex, expansion of the
boat docks, and development and construction of
both private homes and condominiums—all came to
fruition under Bowie’s leadership. Perhaps most im-
portant of all is the concept he developed for the
amenity purchase contract drawn between the Moss
Creek property owners and Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co. Bowie stated that he was resigning
because ‘‘it is now time for me to be free of full-time
responsibilities and to return to the anticipated pleas-
ures I moved here for nine years ago.”’

S L KoPALD, a trustee of Washington and Lee, was
recently cited for his ‘‘integrity, graciousness and
generosity’’ which have earned him ‘‘admiration,
affection and gratitude,’’ by the Hebrew Union Col-
lege-Jewish Institute of Religion and he was presented
its Founders Medal. The honor was accorded Kopald
at a meeting of the college’s board of governors in
New York. The occasion was marked by the retire-
ment from the board of governors of Kopald after 20
years of service, seven of those years as chairman.
The college also named Kopald an honorary chairman
of its board. He is the general manager of Humko
Chemical of Memphis, Tenn.

DONALD L. RICHARDSON of Troy, Mich., has been
elected treasurer of St. Andrews, the oldest benevo-
lent society in Michigan.

   

R. H. Turrell, ’49 J. D. Maguire, ’53

1944

GRANT E. Mouser III, a career foreign service em-
ployee, is now in Hamburg, Germany, where he is
American Consul General in charge of a large foreign
service post for northern Germany.

1945

RICHARD E. BARTLEBAUGH and his wife vacationed
in Italy during July and August. He is president of
Acoustics Manufacturing Corp. and vice president
and general manager of Steel Ceilings, Inc. He lives
in Coshocton, Ohio.

1948

GRANT E. Mouser III (See 1944.)

1949

EUSTACE MULLINS of Staunton, Va., recently loaned
W&L’s University Library a number of writings and
editorial notes by the American poet Ezra Pound,
with whom Mullins had a warm friendship for many
years. Mullins wrote This Difficult Individual, Ezra
Pound, a biography, in 1961. An article about Mullins
and his friendship with Pound recently appeared in
the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

Two W&L alumni, both members of Phi Beta Kappa,
were recently elected to the board of trustees of Mon-
mouth College in West Long Branch, N.J. They are
RICHARD H. TuRRELL, ’49, senior vice president and
secretary of Fiduciary Trust Co. of New York City,
and Dr. JOHN DaviD MAGurIRE, ’53, president of the
State University of New York College at Old West-
bury, N.Y. Turrell was president of the W&L Alumni
Association in 1971-72 and is a former treasurer of
the board of trustees of Simon’s Rock Early College
in Great Barrington, Mass. He has been with Fiduciary
Trust since 1961 and has held his present office there
since 1971. He and his wife, Sally, live in Short
Hills, N.J. Maguire was once chaplain at Washington
and Lee; the University awarded him an honorary
doctor of letters degree in 1979. He taught at Wesleyan
University from 1960 to 1970. A prolific author,
Maguire has written extensively about the college
presidency, and in 1967 he won the E. Harris Harbin-
son Prize for outstanding college teaching in a com-
petition that annually recognizes the 10 top university
teachers in the nation. He became Old Westbury’s
second president in 1970.

1950

GERARD A. BURCHELL JR., formerly with Kingswood
High School in Wolfeboro, N.H., has moved to Ro-
chester where he teaches earth science at Spaulding
Junior High School.

VICTOR P. DALMAS JR. has written a series of articles
on wine which are being published weekly in the
Fayetteville, N.C., Observer. He raises hybrid grapes
as a hobby and is a home winemaker. Dalmas is a
freelance writer and author of a number of books
which he hopes to have published. He retired from

   

   

M. C. Bowling Jr., ’51 J.C. Fox, ’61

the Army as a lieutenant colonel in 1968, studied
English and was editor of Pembroke Magazine, the
literary journal of Pembroke State University, from
1972 to 1979. Dalmas and his wife, Tenna, have
three sons, Parke, Richard, and Jonathan.

Howarb L. STEELE and family, formerly with the
American Embassy in Bolivia, has been assigned to
the Agency for International Development in Hon-
duras. His projects involve assistance to small farmers
producing fresh vegetables for winter export.

Congressman G. WILLIAM WHITEHURST has been
reelected to a seventh term in the U.S. House of
Representatives. He is the second ranking Republican
on the House Armed Services Committee.

1951

MARVIN C. BOwLING JR. has been elected executive
vice president for law and corporate affairs of Lawyers
Title Insurance Corp. He has been with the firm since
1951, most recently as senior vice president and
general counsel since 1975.

A. STEVENS MILES, president of First National Bank
of Louisville, Ky., has been appointed by the gover-
nor to a four-year term on the board of trustees of the
University of Kentucky.

ROBERT H. SALIsBuRY has been elected vice president
of the American Political Science Association. He
has also published a new book, Citizens Participation
in the Public Schools.

1952

JOSEPH YANITY JR., senior partner in Yanity and
DeVeau law firm in Athens, Ohio, is completing his
19th season in major college football officiating.

1953

Dr. JOHN DAviD MAGUIRE (See 1949.)

1954

THOMAS E. Rossins has had his third novel pub-
lished. Still Life With Woodpecker was at the top of
the New York Times trade paperback fiction best
seller list for seven consecutive weeks. Robbins pro-
motes his work with book signing and reading tours
rather than guest appearances. He lives in Burlington,
Wash.

1955

JOHN W. ENGLISHMAN is teaching American, Vir-
ginia and world history at Washington-Lee High
School in Arlington, Va.

1957
JAN DRABEK has published his fourth book and his
third novel, The Lister Legacy. It is published by the
Beaufort Publishing Co. of New York and the General
Publishing Co. of Toronto. The book deals with

   

exploits of an allied commando group on a raid against
a Nazi germ warfare center during World War II.

STANLEY M. ERDREICH JR. has been appointed a
member of CULCON by the United States Interna-
tional Communication Agency. CULCON is the
U.S.-Japan Conference on Cultural and Educational
Interchange. Members of CULCON serve concur-
rently as members of the Japan-U.S. Friendship
Commission, where Erdreich is on the executive
committee. Erdreich is senior vice president and di-
rector of the international department of the First
National Bank of Birmingham. He is also a member
of the trade development committee of the Alabama
Chamber of Commerce and the education committee
for the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade.

JOHN W. SINWELL of Baltimore, Md., has received a
Distinguished Service Award from the Darden School
of Business Administration Sponsors at the University
of Virginia. Sinwell is a vice president of the Darden
School Sponsors trustees.

1958

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr. has been elected director
and treasurer of the Appalachian Community De-
velopment Association in Cincinnati, Ohio.

1960

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR. (See 1958.)

1961

J. CARTER Fox has been elected president and chief
executive officer of Chesapeake Corporation of Vir-
ginia. He was also named a member of the company’s
board of directors. Fox began his career with Chesa-
peake in 1963 as a project accountant. He later served
as staff assistant to the general manager, assistant to
the vice president, corporate controller and vice
president for corporate planning and development.
He became senior vice president in 1979 and was
named executive vice president of the corporation in
April 1980. Fox received his M.B.A. from the Colgate
Darden Graduate School of Business at the University
of Virginia. He has served Washington and Lee in
several capacities, among them class agent, vice
chairman of the Annual Fund, and chairman of the
Annual Fund for two years. Fox is active in civic
organizations and a vestryman in St. John’s Church.
He and his wife, the former Carol Spaulding of Chase
City, have three children.

Dr. RUSSELL E. HARNER has practiced ophthalmology
in Greenville, S.C., since 1972. He and his wife have
two children.

Dr. CHARLES P. RILEy is director of cardiology and
chief of staff at the Sacred Heart Hospital in Pensa-
cola, Fla. He is also vice president of Escambia
County Medical Society. He and his wife, Suzy, have
two sons.

RICHARD D. (Skip) RUHLE JR. is city attorney for

23

CLASS NOTES

Anderson, S.C. He began practicing law in Anderson
in 1963 and later ran for the South Carolina House of
Representatives. He became city recorder in 1967
and was elected city attorney in 1972.

1962

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY, ason,
Matthew David, on Aug. 3, 1980. Chernay is a
member of the New York State Medical Society’s
House of Delegates. He raises thoroughbred horses in
Hopewell Junction, N.Y.

ALAN M. Corwin is an account executive with Dean
Witter Reynolds in Olympia, Wash. Corwin and his
wife recently adopted a son, Jonathan Lee, 6 years
old. They have two daughters, Lisa, 8, and Amy, 5.

W. HAYNE Hipp, vice chairman and chief executive
officer of the Liberty Corp., a South Carolina-based
insurance holding company, has been elected a direc-
tor of Dan River, Inc.

THOMAS L. MELGAARD is a customer service agent
for United Air Lines in Reno, Nev. He and his wife,
Janet, enjoy Lake Tahoe in the summer and local
skiing in the winter.

STEPHEN W. RUTLEDGE, an employee of Proctor and
Gamble Co. and formerly of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
Phoenix, Ariz., has been given a new assignment as
senior vice president and account service director in
the company’s Dallas office. He will be handling
customers of consumer packaged goods.

CHARLES W. VIA, a native of Martinsville, Va., has
been appointed data center director by Philip Morris,
Inc. Before joining Philip Morris two years ago, Via
was manager of systems software for the Insurance
company of North America. He is headquartered in
Richmond.

1963

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. E. Ross KyGer III, a son,
Edgar Ross IV, on Sept. 26, 1980, in Houston.

ROBERT C. BROWNE, formerly with the Pentagon in
Washington, D.C., is a personnel specialist with the
civilian personnel office of the Redstone Arsenal in
Huntsville, Ala. Browne and his wife, Donna, have
two children.

WARREN B. HUGHES Jr., of Media, Pa., has started
his own business, Hughes Marketing Communica-
tions, which provides marketing plans and advertising
services to his clients.

WILLIAM B. (PERK) MACKENNEY III of Seattle, Wash.,
is teaching mathematics and coaching volleyball at
Redmond High School. He holds the rank of com-
mander in the Naval Air Reserves and continues to fly
for the reserves at Whidbey Island Naval Air Station.

E. PutL1p McCALEB was just appointed to the gov-
erning committee of the Virginia Property Insurance

24

   

R. A. Tyler, 66

Association. The Association is the organization
which underwrites all-Virginia FAIR plan business
for the state.

V. LANCE TARRANCE JR. is president of Lance Tar-
rance & Associates of Houston, Texas. The firm is
engaged in consulting and supporting candidates for
public office and was noted for its record in the past
national election campaigns.

H. MICHAEL (MICKEY) WALKER has been promoted
to the position of president of Quest Quarters De-
velopment Corp., a chain of hotels headquartered in
Norfolk, Va., and Washington, D.C.

RICHARD D. (Skip) RUHLE Jk. (See 1961.)

1964

WILLIAM BRAITHWAITE is professor of law at Loyola
University in Chicago. He teaches courses on negoti-
able instruments, sales, secured transactions and
creditors rights.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES S. LEGG JR., a son,
James Smith III, on April 29, 1980, in League City,
Texas.

DouGtas V. Davis is senior trial and supervisory
attorney for the compliance division of the Private
Radio Bureau of the Federal Communications Com-
mission. He lives in Vienna, Va.

VICTOR GALEF of Elkhart, Ind., is in charge of nu-
tritimal consumer products for Miles Laboratories.
Included in the products are One-A-Day and Flint-
stone vitamins.

RICHARD R. KREITLER, after a successful career with
Goldman Sacks in New York City, is semiretired and
has moved to Sun Valley, Idaho, where he continues
to be active in investment management and consulting
work. He reports that he and his family enjoy the
mountains, skiing, and horseback riding.

1966

FRANK A. BAILEY III is a director in his family’s
grain elevator and export business. He lives in Fort
Worth with his wife and four children.

GEOFFREY C. BUTLER, currently assistant headmaster
of Louisville (Ky.) Collegiate School, will become
headmaster of St. Mary’s Episcopal School in Mem-
phis July 1, 1981. Butler began his career in 1966 at
Suffield (Conn.) Academy and held various posts at
that school before joining the Louisville school in
1975.

Roy A. TYLER, senior partner in the law firm of
Tyler, Carithers and Brinson in Evansville, Ind., also
has consulting and lecturing assignments with the
National College of District Attorneys at the Univer-
sity of Houston Law School in Houston, Texas; the
Americans for Effective Law Enforcement in San

Francisco, Calif.; and the International Association
of Chiefs of Police in Gaithersburg, Md., where he
was recently appointed to the board. He and his wife,
the former Terry Beth Spencer, have two daughters..

1967
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. EDWARDE. (NED) BATES JR.,
a son, Edward Ellett III, on Aug. 20, 1980. Bates is a
partner in the Atlanta law firm of Hurt, Richardson,
Garner, Todd & Cadenhead and is a director of the
Atlanta Bar Association.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD L. HARDEN, a
daughter, Meredith Gray, on Jan. 6, 1980, in Glen
Rock, N.J. Harden practices law with the New York
firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam and Roberts.

Dr. Gray B. BOKINSKY, a urologist practicing in
Richmond, recently ran his first marathon.

JAMES G. OVERTON is near completion of a 38-foot
sailboat which he started from a bare hull three years
ago. By the fall of 1981, he hopes to complete the
sailboat and depart on an extended, open-end cruise.
He took a very early retirement to avoid interference
with his plans.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL PRESTON, a son,
James Tate Brown, on Oct. 12, 1980. The new son
joins two older brothers. Preston is vice president of
the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City.

1969
MARRIAGE: Louis K. COLEMAN and Laura Lee
Vulgaris on May 14, 1980, in Baltimore. Kirk
Woodward, 69, was best man. Coleman is an assis-
tant state’s attorney for Baltimore City.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. DAN T. DUNN Jr., a son,
Daniel Walker, on Aug. 13, 1980, in Boston. Dunn is
an associate professor of business administration at
Northeastern University and a consultant in corporate
training programs for Harbridge House, Inc. He and
his wife, Laura, live in Duxbury on Cape Cod Bay.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. Ross FORMAN III, a daugh-
ter, Mary Ross, on Nov. 17, 1980, in Birmingham.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Ray V. HARTWELL III, their
third son, David Fryar, on Aug. 30, 1980, in Rich-
mond. Hartwell is an attorney with the firm of Hunton
and Williams.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FLETCHER FITZGERALD
MAYNARD Jr., a son, Barry Dashiell, on Oct. 7,
1980. The young man joins an older brother, Fletcher
III, who is now 2 years old. Fletcher is vice president
of the First Tennessee Bank in Memphis.

BIRTH: Mkr. and Mrs. Gary D. SILVERFIELD, a son,
Ryan Daniel, on Aug. 4, 1980, in Jacksonville, Fla.

Roy G. HARRELL JR. is a partner in the law firm of

  
     

R. F. Dunlap Jr., ‘70 W. P. Canby, ‘vt

Greene, Mann, Rowe, Stanton, Mastry and Burton in
St. Petersburg, Fla. He is chairman of the Chamber of
Commerce’s Skyway Bridge Task Force and of two
committees in the allocation division of the Pinellas
County United Way, and a director of the Leadership
St. Pete alumni organization.

JOHN L. JOHNSON is vice president and director of
Fisk Electric Co., an electrical contracting firm in
Houston.

ROBERT W. WIPFLER is teaching history and coaching
baseball and soccer at Landon School in Bethesda,
Md. He and his wife, Alice, have two sons, Robbie,
6, and Michael, 1.

1970
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. ANTHONY M. CoyNng, a
daughter, Miriam Victoria, on Oct. 5, 1980, in Ashe-
ville, N.C. Coyne is an assistant professor of philoso-
phy at the University of North Carolina at Asheville.

T. KENNETH CRIBB JR., a native of Spartanburg,
S.C., has been named deputy director of the Legal
and Administrative Agencies Group of the Reagan
Transition Team. Cribb served as deputy counsel for
the national Ronald Reagan-George Bush cam-
paign. After graduation Cribb worked as national
director of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute before
entering law school at the University of Virginia in
1977. He was tapped for the Republican campaign
position after becoming associated with the Wall
Street law firm of Dewey, Ballentine, Bushby, Pal-
mer and Wood and will take a leave of absence from
the firm to serve on the Transition Team. The Team
will work through the inauguration to advise presi-
dent-elect Reagan on actions he will need to take in
his first 90 days in office.

RICHARD F. DUNLAP JR. has been named director of
budgeting for Korf Industries, Inc., in Charlotte,
N.C. He had been manager of financial planning for
Midrex Corp., a Korf subsidiary.

EDWARD A. (NED) POWELL JR., formerly with the
First National Bank of Boston, is now vice president
and a member of the board of directors of Miller Mfg.
Co., a wood products firm in Richmond, Va.

197]

WILLIAM P. Cansy has been promoted to vice presi-
dent of the Trust Company Bank in Atlanta. He is
assigned to the national corporate banking division-
east.

SCHUYLER W. LININGER JR. graduated magna cum
laude from Western States Chiropractic College in
Portland, Ore., in September 1980, along with his
wife, Jane. They are starting a practice in chiropractic
care and nutritional therapeutics in Sandy, Ore. Lin-
inger earned his B.A. and M.A. degrees at California
State University, Fresno.

BARTOW W. RANKIN successfully completed the Na-

  

tional Registration Examinations in June 1980, and
received his Texas certification as a landscape archi-
tect. He earned the master of landscape architecture
degree from the University of Georgia in December
1979. Rankin and his wife, Jennifer, live in Dallas
where he has worked with James E. Lambert and
Associates, a residential and commercial design firm,
for two years.

1972
MARRIAGE: Dr. J. HUDSON ALLENDER and Ma-
rinda Elliott on Oct. 4, 1980. Allender completed his
pediatric residency and has a fellowship in pediatric
cardiology at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. LEo A. Bo_es III, a son, Leo
Armstrong IV, on Dec. 25, 1979, in Greenwich,
Conn. Boles is a shipbroker with Seafair International
Corp. in New York.

RICHARD J. SPLITTORF has been named Los Angeles
manager for Architectural Digest. He joined the
magazine in August 1978 as advertising account
manager.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. C. CRUMBLEY III, a son,
Boothe Bullock, on Aug. 30, 1980, in Lynchburg.

JOHN C. BALDWIN recently became a partner in the
Baltimore law firm of Ober, Grimes & Shriver.

In June 1980 R. BRYAN HATCHETT joined the law
department of CBS, Inc., in New York.

RALPH E. LEHR JR. has joined K O Steel Castings,
Inc., of San Antonio, Texas, as its treasurer and
secretary. After receiving his master’s degree from
Northwestern University’s Kellogg Graduate School
of Management, Lehr, aC.P.A., was associated with
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. and was vice presi-
dent and commercial loan officer with the Alamo
National Bank.

RICHARD L. HARDEN (See 1967.)

1974

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM H. SANDERS Jr. and Julia
Winland of Tulsa on Aug. 16, 1980, at his family
farm in Lane, Kan. Guests included classmates Craig
Smith, Bill Beacham, Perrin Nicolson and Charlie
McCardell; also Jack Parks, ’75. Sanders is associated
with the Kansas City law firm of Blackwell Sanders
Matheny Weary and Lombardi.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip B. SMITH, a daughter,
Claire Gibbons, on Sept. 16, 1980, in Dallas. Smith
received his M.B.A. degree in May 1977 from the
University of Dallas. He is a lending officer in the
aircraft division of Mercantile National Bank.

WILLIAM D. ADaMs is working as a paralegal for the
Roanoke law firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker
and Thornton.

R. LEIGH FRACKELTON Jr. is a partner in the
Fredericksburg, Va., law firm of Crosley, Haley,
Reamy and Frackelton. He is also president of the
Fredericksburg area estate planning council.

Dr. CraiG M. HANKINS is an orthopedic surgery
resident at the University of Florida Hospital in
Gainesville.

ROBERT L. JACKSON graduated from the Samford
University School of Pharmacy and is now an intern
pharmacist at Cooper Green Hospital in Birmingham.

JOHN L. KIRKPATRICK JR. has been promoted to
program director for WSTO-FM 96 in Owensboro,
Ky. He also retained his position as director of public
relations for the firm. Kirkpatrick and his wife, Jane,
have a daughter, Kelsey.

Dr. WILLIAM R. LARosa Jr. is completing his gen-
eral surgical residency and will begin a plastic surgery
residency at the Nassau County Medical Center in
East Meadow, N.Y., next summer.

RICHARD S. McCain is in his second year of an
orthopedic surgery residency program at the Medical
University of South Carolina in Charleston.

THomas A. MATTESky has been named assignment
editor for television station WBTV in Charlotte, N.C.

G. WATSON TEBO Jr. is veterinary territory manager
in New Orleans for Beecham Laboratories of Bristol,

1975

T. Barry Davis was honored in Ft. Lauderdale by
Media Networks, Inc., a subsidiary of 3M Corp., as
the number-one sales executive in the country for his
division. As Washington/Baltimore sales manager
responsible for selling advertising to national maga-
zines, he set a record for the highest total sales in that
division’s history. Davis lives in Bethesda, Md.

PETER G. D. ERTMAN has been appointed district
geologist for the California Desert District, Bureau of
Land Management, U.S. Department of the Interior.
He oversees five area geologists in field offices
throughout the 40,000-square mile district and is
responsible for policy formulation and budget prep-
aration. The second full-scale geothermal power plant
in the country is to begin construction soon within the
district. Ertman was an area geologist in the Las
Vegas district, where he received a special achieve-
ment award for his contributions to the oil and gas
leasing program. He and his wife, Maiva, live in
Riverside, Calif.

CHANNING J. MARTIN completed a clerkship for Jus-
tice A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, of the Virginia
Supreme Court. He recently joined the litigation sec-
tion for the Richmond law firm of Williams, Mullen,
Christian, Pollard and Gray.

PAUL S. RICHARDS III works for Chilton Publishing

25

CLASS NOTES

Co. as associate editor of Motor/Age magazine. He
lives in Ardmore, Pa.

DouG as V. Davis (See 1965.)

Ray V. HARTWELL III (See 1969.)

1976

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM W. CRAWFORD JR. and Nancy
Cutting Clarke on April 26, 1980, in Chicago. W.
Kennedy Simpson, ’75, Robert R. Gray, ’75, William
H. Ogburn, ’76, and E. Neal Cory II, ’77, were
ushers. Crawford is an independent market-maker as
a member of the Chicago Board Options Exchange.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. HUNTER N. CHARBONNET, a
daughter, Margaux Eaves, on May 18, 1980, in New
Orleans. He has formed Charbonnet Enterprises for
the development, construction and renovation of
homes.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davip S. MARTIN, a daughter,
Cameron Lee, on Feb. 1, 1980, in Atlanta.

Davip T. ANDERSON is pastor of the United Meth-
odist Church in Burkeville, Va.

ALAN CHIPPERFIELD is working in the public defend-
er’s office in Jacksonville, Fla. He plays rugby for the
Florida Cup championship team in Jacksonville.

JOHN L. Gray JR. is an account manager at the
Atlanta advertising agency, Umphenour. He directs
the marketing efforts of Dyeco Fastlube, a new car
maintenance service chain.

PHILIP L. HANRAHAN has been promoted to captain
by the Army at Fort Riley, Kans. In December 1980,
he began the Armor Officer Advance Course at Fort
Knox, where he will be assigned to duty upon com-
pletion of the course.

NEILSON L. JOHNSON is self-employed as a free-
lance photographer and photojournalist in Shreveport,
La.

MICHAEL A. OKIN graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Medicine in May 1980. He is
serving his internship in family practice as a captain
at the Dwight D. Eisenhower Army Medical Center
at Fort Gordon, Ga.

ROBERT G. PUGH Jr. has finished his clerkship with
Judge John Minor Wisdom, ’25, in New Orleans and
is practicing law in Shreveport, La., with the firm of
Pugh and Pugh.

PAUL A. SIMPSON is associate director of under-
graduate admissions at Bradley University in Peoria,
Ill.

Grecory M. Sorc is an associate with the law firm
of Bruckner and McKenna in Woodsville, N.H. He
resigned his position with the Department of Energy
in May and now resides in Haverhill.

26

WILLIAM T. Tiers III is a sales representative for
Belknap Hardware, a large wholesaler. He lives in
Virginia Beach.

Mark E. SHARP (See 1979.)

1977

MARRIAGE: E. MorGAN MAxwELt III and Jacque-
line Highley Goodin on Aug. 30, 1980, in Cleveland.
Classmates and wives attending the wedding were:
Nancy and Jeffrey W. Morris, Michael J. Rowan,
Beth and James H. Webster, Stephen I. Greenhalgh,
Douglas M. Thomas, and Ted D. Grosser.

ELIZABETH TONI GUARINO became a staff attorney
for the Federal Trade Commission, division of adver-
tising practices, in Washington, D.C., in September
1980.

DANIEL E. WESTBROOK is associated with the law
firm of Haynes and Boone in Dallas.

1978

MARRIAGE: Grecory C. SIEMINSKI and Virginia
Beth Ramsey on April 26, 1980, in Williamsburg.
Peter Farren, ’78, was best man. Also present were
Stuart Craig, ’78, Grant Leister, ’79, and Eugene B.
Sieminski Jr., °55, father of the groom. They are
living in Mililani, Hawaii, where Sieminski is a first
lieutenant in the Army.

Mark H. DERBYSHIRE is a recreation coordinator at
William Byrd Community House in Richmond. In
the fall of 1981, he will enroll at Virginia Common-
wealth University to pursue a master’s degree in
social work.

ERIK S. GREENBAUM is a pharmacist for his family’s
business, Hermitage Pharmacy in Richmond. He
plans to pursue an M.B.A. degree in the fall of 1981.

THOMAS D. HELDMAN is a Senior accountant on the
audit staff of Ernst and Whinney in Cincinnati. He is
active in Junior Achievement and the Society for the
Advancement of Management.

JOHN D. LONG is a commercial loan officer in the
national division of Fidelity Bank in Philadelphia.

RICHARD B. MCDANIEL is teaching, coaching, and
working in admissions at Woodberry Forest School.

GERALD L. MAATMAN Jk. is executive editor of the
Northwestern Journal of International Law and Busi-
ness. He is a senior at Northwestern University School
of Law. During the summer Maatman worked in the
Chicago and Washington offices of the law firm of
Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather and Geraldson.

ENSIGN W. GorpDon Ross is serving as electrical
officer aboard the frigate USS Capodanno, which
recently completed participation with 170 ships in a
NATO fleet exercise in the North Atlantic. It was the
largest NATO naval exercise in history. Ross toured
Scandinavia following the exercise.

1979

MARRIAGE: James E. Moy er III and Charlotte
Landrum Johnson were married May 10, 1980.
Washington and Lee guests attending the wedding
included classmates Rick Moran, Mason Hawfield,
Drew Sims, Doug Willis, Bob Thomas; J. Edward
Moyler Jr., 51, 55L, and Nick Gill, ’77. The couple
lives in Virginia Beach.

MARRIAGE: EDWARD SAMUEL PETERSON JR. and
Cynthia Ann Belcher, on July 26, 1980, in Shreve-
port, La. Among the wedding guests were classmates
James D. Gray, Douglas Byrd, Hank Hall, John
Plowden, Warren A. Stephens, and Tracy White.
Other W&L men present were: Jim Haynes, Kevin
Bowles, and Raymond Long, ’82; Bill Prichard and
David McCubbin, ’80; Robert Jackson, ’78; Robert
Pugh and Neil Johnson, ’76; Archer Frierson and
Haller Jackson III, ’73; Ralph Baucum Jr., ’58; James
Reeder, ’55; Andy Gallagher, ’51, ’55L; Haller Jack-
son Jr., °48; Clarence Frierson, ’46; Richard C. Eglin,
°44; Robert M. Jeter Jr., °41, and Alton Sartor Jr.,
"38.

MARRIAGE: THomas B. RENTSCHLER JR. and Julie
Ann Smith on June 30, 1980, in Hamilton, Ohio.
Mark Rentschler, ’82, was best man and Lee Davies,
°79, was an usher. Rentschler was promoted to mar-
keting and personnel officer of the Citizens Bank in
Hamilton in July 1980.

MARRIAGE: Mark E. SHARP and PaTRICcIA A.
Woopwakb on Sept. 13, 1980, in Lee Chapel. Sharp
iS an associate with the Fairfax, Va., law firm of
Chess, Durrette & Roeder and Woodward is an asso-
ciate with attorney Jud Fishel in Warrenton. The
couple lives in Fairfax. Among the W&L guests at
the wedding were classmates Larry Remmel, Jack
Coffey, Bob Hill, Bill Moffet, Dave Heilberg, Jessine
Monaghan, Mick McLaughlin, Jean Baxter, and
Robin Blackburn; Mike Hubbard and John Cockle-
reece, both ’76, ’79L; Bob Link, Michele Skarvelis,
Peter Roane, Debbie Pfeiffer, Joan Gordon, and Gayle
Holder, ’80L; Rick Patterson and Toosie Smith, ’81L;
Marcus Brinks, ’78, ’81L; Stu Nibley, ’75, ’79L, and
Sally Waint, ’78L.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH W. SLEDD Jr. and Lourie H.
Simon on April 12, 1980, in Richmond, Va. Class-
mates attending the wedding were: Edward M. Adler,
Scott K. Douglas, Charles J. Fadus, Christopher
Haley, Harry F. Hoke, and John Janney; also, Irby
Bruce Cauthen, ’78, Richard J. Fadus, ’78, and John
R. Downey, 77.

After graduation ROBERT H. BENFIELD Jr. worked
on a remote mountainous island at Prince William
Sound, Alaska, constructing a salmon hatchery for a
regional aquaculture corporation. Upon completion
of the project, he returned to Raleigh, N.C., where he
began an internship investigating consumer protection
cases for the attorney general’s office. He is currently
a first-year law student at Emory University.

J. PETER CLEMENTS is enrolled in the College of
William and Mary’s M.B.A. program.

R. CHRISTOPHER COLLINS is a second-year student in
the M.B.A. program at the College of William and
Mary. He expects to graduate in May 1981.

J. MATTHEW CULBERSON teaches geology and phil-
osophy at the Storm King School in Cornwall-on-
Hudson, N.Y. Inthe summer he is an instructor at the
Outward Bound School in North Carolina.

Lr. WILLIAM D. Davis Jr. is executive officer in an
infantry company at Fort Lewis, Wash.

Scott W. Hoop is employed at the Amelia Island
Golf Shop, Amelia Island, Fla. He has applied for a
trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark office.

C. STEPHEN JONES Jr., formerly with the personnel
office of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-
Salem, N.C., is employment manager in the sports-
wear division of Burlington Industries in Mooresville,
N.C.

STuaRT M. Jongs has recently taken a position with
Colonial Building Co., a large residential builder in
Raleigh, N.C.

J. HAGoop S. MorriSON was commissioned an ensign
in the Navy after completing officer candidate school
at Newport, R.I., in October 1980. He is deployed
aboard the oiler USS Canisteo and will return to
Newport in March for four months of surface warfare
officer school.

Davip D. My LIn is a weapons systems officer on an
F-4E Phantom at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa.

MICHAEL L. Opon is a first-year student at Cumber-
land Law School in Birmingham.

ANDREW L. RADCLIFFE has been promoted to assis-
tant supervisor for Ryan Homes, Inc., in Washington,
D.C., and Frederick, Md.

JAMES R. SHOEMAKER is a second-year law student at
Washington and Lee. He was a clerk for the Wash-
ington firm of Doub and Muntzing during the
summer.

DoucLas B. WyatTT is a second-year student at Bates
College of Law in Houston, Texas. He is concentrat-
ing in the areas of corporate, tax and energy-related
law.

CHANNING J. MARTIN (See 1975.)

1980

MARRIAGE: Tuomas A. LIsk and Anita Sykes on
Oct. 4, 1980, in Roanoke, Va. Classmates Craig
Cornett and Eric Frey were ushers. Also in attendance
were Howard Metzger, 80, Richard Lovegrove, ’77,
Charles Lovegrove, ’53, and David Irvin, ’81. They
live in Alexandria, Va. Lisk is state liaison for the
western states of the National Rifle Association.

H. HaLcomBE BairD III is attending the Graduate
School of Mechanical Engineering at Georgia Tech.

   

Phyllis W. Long, ’80L

J. M. Powell, ’80

He represents the mechanical engineering department
in the Graduate Student Senate.

ANDREW W. BobENSTAB is working for the DuPont
Company Industrial Photo Systems in Northern New
Jersey. He lives in Palisades Park.

Timotny A. Brooks is currently assistant executive
secretary and management consultant with the na-
tional office of Sigma Chi fraternity in Evanston, Ill.

RoBERT B. EARLE was commissioned an ensign in
the Navy when he graduated from officer candidate
school in Newport, R.I., on Nov. 7, 1980. He is
stationed in Detroit until March 1981, when he reports
to the Navy nuclear power school in Orlando.

JoAN M. GARDNER was admitted to the Virginia Bar
in October. She is associate counsel in Roanoke for
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Southwestern Virginia.

WILLIAM L. GARRETT JR. was admitted to the Dela-
ware Bar in December. He is associated with the
Wilmington firm of O’Donnell and Hughes.

PauL C. HENDRY is a Sales representative for Chese-
brough-Pond’s, Inc. in Los Angeles. He lives in
Irvine, Calif.

THOMAS B. HENSON is an associate with the Char-

 

lotte, N.C., law firm of Fleming, Robinson, Brad-
shaw and Hinson.

PHYLLIS WILLETTS LoncG has joined the legal depart-
ment of Springs Mills in Fort Mill, S.C. She and her
husband live in Charlotte, N.C.

Howarp M. METZGER JR. is studying microbiology
at the University of Pittsburgh.

J. MICHAEL PowELL has joined the Newport News
office of Wheat, First Securities, Inc., as an account
executive.

KEvIn J. Ross has been admitted to the Massachusetts
Bar. He is employed in the general counsel’s office of
First Ipswich Co., a nursing home development.
corporation. Ross lives in Bradford, Mass. .

Scott A. WILLIAMS is a commercial credit analyst
for the Bank of New Orleans. He is a member of the
American Institute of Banking.

MITCHELL S. WYNNE is working for Exploration
Investments, Inc., a small oil and gas company in
Fort Worth.

DANIEL E. WESTBROOK (See 1977.)

PaTRICIA A. WOODWARD (See 1979.)

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1916

Dr. ROBERT GoREE NELSON, a Tampa obstetrician
and gynecologist and former president of the Florida
Board of Medical Examiners, died Sept. 14, 1980.
Nelson graduated from the Medical School at Van-
derbilt University and began his practice in Tampa in
1929. He was a former president of the Hillsborough
County Association of the National Association for
Retarded Children.

1923

JAMES MorTON MACKEY, a senior designer and long-
time employee of Newport News Shipbuilding and
Dry Dock Co. in Newport News, Va., died Oct. 9,
1980. He joined the company in November 1922.

1926

Dr. WILLIAM E. ELLIOTT, a physician in private
practice, died July 17, 1980, in Martinez, Ga. He was
a former major of the medical corp and assistant chief
surgical officer for the 141st General Hospital.

1927

FANNING MILES HEARON, a native of Bristol, Va.,
and for 40 years an executive in the newspaper, radio,
and motion picture business, died in Tryon, N.C.,
Nov. 19, 1980. Hearon was a navy commander during
World War II and the Korean War. He was a member
of the original fine arts center board, president of the
Tryon Little Theatre, and a former director of the

Rockefeller Foundation Film Project.

CHARLES EMERSON WILEY JR., a former employee of
the Equitable Life Insurance Co. of Iowa with offices
in Roanoke, Va., died Aug. 10, 1980. At the time of
his death he was residing in Saltville, Va.

1928

S. LAKE Bass, owner and chief operator of Lake Bass
Realty Co. and Oil Properties in Baton Rouge, La.,
died June 11, 1980. At one time Bass was connected
with Standard Oil of New Jersey.

1930

Maurice J. REIS, a former distinguished employee
of the Federal Securities and Exchange Commission
and The World Bank, died on Nov. 16, 1980, in
Stamford, Conn. Reis was an analyst for the Securities
and Exchange Commission in Washington from 1935
to 1941 and worked for the Cayoga Construction
Corp. in New York for three years. He was a con-
sultant for Reis and Chandler of New York for 20
years. He entered the Peace Corps in 1965 and later
joined The World Bank. Reis traveled extensively,
living a year in Cuba and two years in Peru, with
travels to Brazil, Columbia, Ethiopia, and Indonesia.
An avid sports fan, Reis played tournament tennis.
He was a frequent visitor to the W&L campus.

1932

RICHARD THOMAS Hopper, a former news editor of

ae

 

IN MEMORIAM

the Asbury Park Press, died Oct. 20, 1980, at the
Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J.
Hopper, who retired in 1978, was a newspaper man
for more than 45 years. He first joined the Press in
1934 and worked as a reporter until 1936 when he
became associated with the Progressive Citizen, a
weekly newspaper in Asbury Park. He was also an
announcer for radio station WCAP; news editor for
the Belmar Coast Advertiser and the Monmouth
County Tribune; and managing editor of the New
Jersey Courier. Hopper purchased a weekly news-
paper in Ohio and was editor and publisher of the
West Shore Calendar in Westlake, Ohio, before re-
turning to the Press in 1960. He was the first president
of the Toms River Businessmen’s Association and
was a former member of the board of governors of the
Toms River Yacht Club.

LORENZ OSCAR SCHMIDT, a former employee of the
First National Bank of Chicago and the Aquos Pro-
ducts Co. of Indianapolis, Ind., died Aug. 13, 1980.
During World War II Schmidt was a captain with the
U.S. Army Airway Communication System in Africa
and the Middle East.

JOHN SCHALLES SCHUCHART, an employee of the
Smith Printing Co. of Williamsport, Pa., for 46 years
and chairman of its board, died Oct. 4, 1980. Schu-
chart, an outstanding football player at W&L, was a
past president of the Pennsylvania Sports Hall of
Fame.

CoL. HAROLD JOSEPH SULLIVAN, an attorney in
Oklahoma City and a fellow of the American Bar
Foundation, died Nov. 3, 1980. Col. Sullivan, a
decorated veteran of the Air Force, saw duty during
World War II in Australia, New Guinea, the Philip-
pine Islands, Okinawa, and Japan. He was awarded

the Bronze Star Medal as well as the Japanese Oc-

cupation Ribbon. Sullivan was one of 20 officers and
enlisted men who accompanied Gen. McArthur on
the official entry into Tokyo and was at the raising of
the American flag over that city. He held important
legal assignments including Judge Advocate of the
Fifth and Far East Air Force winding up his career as
Judge Advocate at Tinker Air Force Base. He was a
member of the board of governors of the Oklahoma
Bar Association and in 1969 became executive direc-
tor, a post he held until 1975. Sullivan was also active
in the American Bar Association serving as chairman
of its citizenship committee, and a member of. its
continuing education committee and House of Dele-
gates.

1933

LORING MILLIKEN GARRISON died Oct. 18, 1980, in
Easley, S.C. He was a building and loan executive
before his retirement two years ago. Garrison was a
veteran of World War II.

1936

EDWARD LEE MARKHAM JR., an attorney in Dallas,
Texas, died Oct. 26, 1980. Markham moved to Dallas
in 1940 and practiced law in that city for 40 years.

28

From 1942 to 1945 Markham was assistant city attor-
ney for the city of Dallas. He was an officer or
director of Tempo Distributors, Inc.; Operations In-
ternational, Inc.; Zippet Blind Company of Texas,
and Trans-South-West Co. His memberships included
the Dallas Bar Association, the Texas Bar Association
and the Sertoma Club of Dallas.

1937

Dr. DOUGLAS WALDEMAR LUND, most recently the
head of medical services at Partlow School in Tusca-
loosa, Ala., died June 29, 1980. Lund was born in
Kuling, China, to missionary parents. He received
his medical degree from the University of Virginia in
1940. He did post graduate work as demonstrator in
internal medicine at Jefferson Medical College, re-
searcher, at the Donner Lab at the University of
California in radioactive therapy, and work in aviation
medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons
at Columbia University. A former chief of accelera-
tion at Wright-Patterson Areo-Med Lab, he was a
flight surgeon in the Air Force and flight command
surgeon of the 7th area command during the Korean
War. Lund was the author of several articles and
books and held six patents for medical instrument
improvements.

GEORGE PILCHER JR., an attorney in Norfolk, Va.,
died Aug. 12, 1980. Pilcher was in the Naval Intelli-
gence Service during World War II. He resumed his
law practice in 1945 in a firm formed with his father
and brother. He dissolved his partnership in 1972 but
continued an active practice.

WATSON ANDREWS SUDDUTH, a Vicksburg, Miss.,
insurance executive, died Nov. 2, 1980. Sudduth was
vice president of R. C. Wilkerson, Inc., a local in-

- surance agency where he had worked for many years.

He was active in the Tri-County Hunting and Fishing
Club and a retired U.S. Air Corp reservist. He saw
service in the Pacific Theater daring World War II.

1939

JOHN LILLARD DAvIS, a former sales manager and
dirctor of W. D. Allison Co. in Indianapolis, Ind.,
died Sept. 30, 1980, in Naples, Fla. Davis worked in
the public relations department at Eli, Lilly and Co.
before retiring to Naples in 1960, where he formed a
small company known as the Kool Kit Corp., which
made a travel case for diabetics. He was a World War
II Army veteran.

1942

BERTRAND PRICE KADIS, a prominent real estate
broker and developer in New York City and the
surrounding area, died Sept. 2, 1980. Kadis was a
veteran of World War II and also saw service with the
Army in Korea. While at Washington and Lee he was
an outstanding member of the football team.

1943

THOMAS QUINTUS GARTH JR., a long-time govern-
ment employee in the Labor Department, died Oct. 1,

1980. In his last government position he was customs
law advisor for the U.S. Coast Guard. At the time of
his death he was living in Luray, Va.

JAMES CARROLL WALKER, former sales executive
with International Business Machines Corp. and later
president and owner of the Outdoor Equipment Co.
of St. Louis, Mo., died Nov. 15, 1980. Walker was a
Marine Corps veteran of World War II and saw active
duty in the central and western Pacific areas.

1949

THE Hon. THOMAS DUNCAN COOPER JR., district
court judge for Alamance County, died Aug. 30,
1980, in Burlington, N.C. Cooper was named judge
for the 15th Judicial District in 1970 and was noted
for his efforts to help people help themselves through
a thorough knowledge and understanding of the law.
A resolution honoring Judge Cooper was passed by
the board of commissioners of Alamance County and
said, in part, Judge Cooper ‘‘fought for the principles
of a free court system which would protect the rights
of litigants, juveniles, victims of crimes, and the
accused; and was a legal scholar with few peers in the
academic or legal community.’’ Among his com-
munity services he was president of the Burlington
Jaycees; chairman of Burlington’s Planning and Zon-
ing; and a director of Teen Challenge, Christian
Counseling Center, and the YMCA.

1951

FREDERIC JOHN AHERN, vice president of Baldwin
United Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio, died Oct. 10,
1980. Ahern joined United Corporation in 1951 and
was elected vice president in 1964 at the age of 36. He
held that position until the merger with Baldwin in
1978. At the time of his death, Ahern was a director
of Bow Valley Industries of Calgary in Alberta,
Canada, and Bolivian Power Co. Ltd. He was also a
member of the New York Society of Security
Analysts, the Cincinnati Society of Financial
Analysts, the National Association of Petroleum In-
vestment Analysts, and the American Petroleum In-
stitute.

1956

BRUCE EUGENE BUSSEN of Glendale, Mo.,
vice president of Bussen Quarries, Inc., died Nov.
11, 1980. Bussen Quarries owns a dredging company,
a fleeting service and a river terminal on the Missis-
sippi River. Bussen was a member of the board of
directors of Mark Twain South County Bank and
president of the St. Louis Quarry Association and the
St. Louis Chapter of American Military Engineers.

1971

MARTIN BALDWIN WHITAKER, who received his law
degree from the University of Georgia Law School in
1974 and spent four years with the United States
Department of Justice, tax division, died Sept. 8,
1980, in Houston, Texas. He was an associate in the
Houston law firm of Chamberlain, Hrdlicka, White,
Johnson & Williams.

 

 

 

\
\\ ES g
_

 

 

 

 

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND W&L’S ANNUAL SPRING

Class Reunions

HONORING THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES OF 1931,
1936, 1941, 1946, 1951, 1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1976, AND
THE FIVE STAR GENERALS (All classes before 1931)

MAY 7, 8, and 9

 

 

 

The Alumni M agazine of Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY At Lexington, Virginia 24450

And Additional Mailing Offices
(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 :

CL,

MR DANIEL T BALFOUR
211 RALSTON RD
RICHMOND VA

23229

 

EXPERIENCE CHINA

16 DAYS

  
  
  

WHOLE TOUR IS

LEAVING PERSONALLY

SEPT. 19, 1981 ESCORTED BY

$2775 pe ee i SID KAPLAN, W&L
SEATTLE DEPARTURE

CLASS OF 1956.

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
oresents (for members and their immediate
families) an unforgetable tour. . .Hong Kong and The ed Shanghai.
~ People’s Republic of China. . .16 days of history and
culture await you. . .from the moment your Northwest China. All sightseeing is included in the price. Limited to

Airlines 747 leaves Seattle (West coast departure takes 30 people. The China Experience, one never to be
advantage of Group Savings) and wings to three forgotten.

days in Hong Kong to 11 stimulating days
from Peking to Hangkow to Soochow to

. .English speaking guides, all meals in China,
deluxe hotel in Hong Kong and the best available in

FOR FREE DETAILED BROCHURE, CALL OR WRITE: SID KAPLAN, PRES., LAND SEA AIR TRAVEL
1228 EUCLID AVENUE ¢ CLEVELAND, OHIO 44115 OR PHONE (216)621-7910

 

 

037556

