 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 59, Number 2, March 1984

Frank A. Parsons, 54 ........... 0.0.00 cee ee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ........ ......Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna..................... Associate Editor
Robert Fure ..................000. Contributing Editor
Joyce Harris ........... 00.0000. eee, Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas ...................4. Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.................0.. Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Coeducation Study Begun...................e00 eee
Ties: That: Bind... 00.008 ic ee cabs cue ane see eee
A Look Back at Coed Studies.....................
Walt Michaels, A Profile..... oe cs SES a ee 8

ODK-PBK Honors............... 0. cece eee eee eens 12
Lexington to N.Y. in Nine Steps................... 14
Michael Miley’s Lexington................00 ce eee 18
Gilréath, Bequest... 0c. hi een ce seas 22
Elrod is New Dean............. 0.0 cece eee eee eee 23
WSL Gazette... 6. i ea oa oe et cee eee baed koe es 6 24
Fancy. Dress 1984.2. 60066. oe oc wee BAA ek es 32
Winter Sports... 0.006. cb ee ce es eee Bee ee 35
Chapter News... 0.6000 ene i ceed bcos Oe ea Bee 37
Class Notes.......... iy gewes ctetes site yee 42
In Memoriam.......... 0.0... cece cee ee eens +
And furthermore............ 0... c eee ee eee eee ee eee 53

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas.

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Allcommunications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 750, Baltimore, Md.
OwEN H. Harper, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt JR., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, 50, New York City
HENRY NorTBeErc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyNnor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
RIcE M. TiLLey JR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CV

v

ON THE COVER: For several weeks this winter neckties sup-
planted coeducation as the major topic of conversation on the
W&L campus. To wear ties to class? Or not to wear them? That
was the question. For the answer and other details of the In-
credible Cravat Caper, see page 2. The photograph of W&L
neckties is by Frank Parsons, ’54, and Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

Trustees Begin Coeducation Study

Survey of Alumni One Element of Plan for Comprehensive Examination

At its February meeting in Lexington, the Washington
and Lee Board of Trustees decided to initiate a comprehen-
sive study of the question of admitting women to the
undergraduate divisions of the University.

According to Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48L, of
Philadelphia, one of the primary elements of the Trustees’
study will be a systematic survey of the University’s alum-

ni to solicit opinion on the impact coeducation would have:

on W&L.

A questionnaire designed to gather information on
opinion about coeducation and several other issues has been
mailed to all alumni.

The questionnaire will be tabulated and the findings will
be analyzed by the Southeastern Institute of Research, a
Richmond-based firm which will make its report to the
Trustees in May.

Noting that the survey is part of the Board’s effort to
make its study as thorough and as systematic as possible,
Ballengee emphasized the Trustees’ hope that all alumni will
take advantage of the questionnaire to express an opinion.

According to Ballengee, the Trustees anticipate discus-
sion of a progress report of its study during the next regular
meeting on May 25 and 26 in Lexington.

Ballengee further announced that a special meeting of
the Board has been scheduled for July 15 and 16 at which
time the Trustees expect to take some action on the question.

“There could be no more important task our Board’s
members might undertake than to conduct this study with
thoroughness and sensitivity and to come to a decision that
is based upon full understanding of all the issues involved,’’
Ballengee said.

‘Regardless of how the question is ultimately resolved,
we must be certain that it serves the best interests of this
venerable institution and its heritage of quality higher
education.’’

The standing committees of the Board of Trustees will
be used to carry out the various studies associated with an
overall assessment of undergraduate coeducation.

Some of the specific areas upon which the studies will
be focused are the impact of coeducation on curricular mat-
ters and the quality of the academic programs; institutional
size; admissions policies and practice; faculty and staff
growth and change; intercollegiate athletics, intramurals
and recreation; residential facilities; physical plant ade-
quacy and modifications; relations with alumni and other
constituencies; and, quality of student life and student
traditions.

The topics of these studies fall within the charge of the
Board’s existing committees for Academic Affairs, Budget

 

Charles Mason Photo

and Audit, Campus Life, Investment, and Planning and
Development. Those standing committees will undertake
the studies.

In addition, the Board’s Executive Committee (compos-
ed of chairmen of the standing committees and expanded
by two other Trustees) will be charged with the task of
assessing the “intangibles” of the Washington and Lee
experience.

All committees will be drawing upon administrative
staff support as needed and will also involve faculty,
students, and alumni in their studies as appropriate.

 

 

 

 

Not since The Battle of Steinkirk in
1692 when French officers had no time to
arrange their cravats properly before engag-
ing the enemy had the necktie been such a
controversial item of apparel as it became at
Washington and Lee earlier this year.

The Incredible Cravat Caper began in
January when the student body’s Executive
Committee unanimously approved a resolu-
tion asking W&L faculty members to re-
quire their students to wear ties in the
classroom.

The original impetus for the resolution
had been a desire on the part of Executive
Committee members to reestablish certain
University traditions. Student attire was
considered the most obvious place to start
although the Executive Committee’s pro-
posal stopped short of suggesting a return
to conventional dress and the Assimilation
Committee.

Several days after the resolution became
public when Executive Committee minutes
were posted around the campus, a front
page story in the Roanoke Times & World-
News broke the big news to the rest of the
world. In addition to quoting Executive
Committee President Bob Jenevein on the
rationale behind the resolution, the story
cited opinions of students and faculty on
both sides of the crucial question.

Needless to say the proposal was not ex-
actly greeted with universal enthusiasm.

One student said he would leave W&L
before he’d wear a tie. A professor called the
idea ‘‘a throwback to the Middle Ages.”’
And those were among the less emotional
responses.

On the other hand, the proposal had its
supporters. One student suggested he ought
to start wearing a tie in college since he’d be
wearing one the rest of his life anyway. And
history professor Jefferson Davis Futch,
who requires students to wear ties in his
classroom, explained that he had instituted
the requirement in the late 1960s “‘because I
think the necktie, especially at that time,
was a badge of responsibility and genteel
dress and a genteel way of living.’’

A major controversy had been born.
And this was just the beginning.

Within days the brewing controversy
had made its way to the national wire ser-
vices. The Washington Post assigned a
reporter to the tie story. Radio stations call-
ed for interviews. TV stations came to film
students with and without neckties. A pro-
ducer from ABC-TV’s Good Morning
America made a preliminary inquiry into
having two students debate the pros and
cons of ties in the classroom on network
TV. That did not materialize.

Before the controversy died down

 

Blessed Be
The
(Neckties

Great Cravat Controversy
Commands Center Stage

several weeks later Washington and Lee had
made the news from coast-to-coast. The
story was a headline writer’s dream:

“Ties may put W&L in a Bind”; “Old
school tie knotty issue for W&L’; “Dress
Code Leaves W&L Fit to Be Tied.’’

Nationally-syndicated columnist George
Will made the necktie controversy a central
theme in one of his columns. Wrote Will:
‘america is back and standing tall and has
a nice sharp crease in its trousers. Perhaps
America is back because its pants are press-
ed. Or vice versa .. . .Proof of the fact that
not everything incredible is untrue is this
bulletin: last week the student government
at Washington and Lee University asked the
faculty to get the undergraduates into more
presentable dress.”’

Will proceeded to tie (see how easy it is?)

the W&L controversy to what he perceives is
a general cultural shift in the country.

Other newspapers mentioned neckties
editorially, some pro and some con. And in
much the same manner as the childhood
game of “gossip,’’ the farther away the
story got from the source the more likely it
was to stray from the facts. In Asheville,
N.C., for instance, an editorial claimed the
necktie proposal had caused little dissent
among students but considerable dissent
among the faculty.

In truth, dissent over the proposal was
strong enough from both students and
faculty that before a week had passed the
Executive Committee amended its original
proposal. Instead of asking faculty to re-
quire neckties, the Executive Committee
merely encouraged students to dress
respectably.

Jim Messer, a senior representative to
the Executive Committee, addressed the tie
question at the February faculty meeting.
Messer explained the committee’s intent,
then admitted that asking the faculty to en-
force a dress code would not be adhering to
tradition at all since one of the most valued
and valuable traditions at W&L is the
freedom with which the students govern
themselves.

The decision to alter the original pro-
posal resulted in another round of
headlines: ““W&L necktie proposal loosen-
ed’”’; “Proposal on ties won’t be binding’’;
“Protesters Prevail; Ties Not Binding On
W&L Campus.’’

Eventually the necktie controversy ran
its course. But not before the brothers of
Kappa Sigma fraternity had provided some
welcome comic relief with a midnight raid
that left the campus in sartorial splendor.

The Kappa Sigmas decorated the cam-
pus with neckties. There were ties on trees,
ties on signs, ties on Cyrus McCormick’s
statue. Wide ties, thin ties, striped ties, club
ties. Ties and ties and more ties.

““We did it for the sake of humor, not as
a protest,’’ explained a fraternity
spokesman, begging anonymity lest he be
required to untie all the ties.

The spokesman would confirm that
most of the ties were tied in windsor knots
but admitted some were “pretty sloppy half
windsors.”’

The story had a happy ending. For their
project, the Kappa Sigmas purchased 60 ties
from the Thrift Shop, a second-hand
clothing store operated by the Stonewall
Jackson Hospital Auxiliary. And once the
ties were taken down the Buildings and
Grounds department returned them to the
Thrift Shop to be sold again—knot a bad
deal, you’d have to agree.

 

 

 

 

 

 

0104d A[aUTH YOHIed

wr

 

 

 

 

by Frank Parsons

An Old Question

Coeducation at Washington and Lee Has Been Debated for Nearly a Century

“There is so much of interest in our
history that we must be careful not to pro-
duce an impression that our history is of
more importance than the work we are
doing. ’”’

A statement linked to coeducation at
Washington and Lee? Right!

Something someone said or wrote just
recently, part of the current debate? Wrong!

Try 1896.

Back then, on June Ist in a faculty
meeting, Professor Addison Hogue pro-
posed that the University admit women
students. Writing in Washington and Lee’s
official history, General Lee’s College, the
late Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw noted that little
mention of coeducation had appeared
publicly before. Of course, there had been
that Southern Collegian article back in 1888
advocating coeducation, the one that said
Southern women wouldn’t lose their
“delicacy and refinement” by going to col-
lege with men.

But Professor Hogue’s proposal, even
though it failed by a 7-3 vote to carry facul-
ty support, got the Trustees’ attention. Or,
at least one Trustee’s attention. The Rev. E.
C. Gordon moved on June 17, 1896, that a
Board committee inquire into the expedien-
cy of “opening the doors of this University
to women.’’ After sleeping on it, the
Trustees tabled Gordon’s motion and, ac-
cording to Crenshaw, “‘nothing further was
heard of the explosive issue for several
years.’

The issue then was much the same as it
is now—concern over the quality of the
educational experience at Washington and
Lee and the ability of the University to at-
tract students. Professor James A. Quarles,
in a long memorandum to the Rector, Judge
William McLaughlin, said the University
should get rid of its law school and beef up
the undergraduate program in order to com-
pete with Southern rivals. “‘As it is, how can
we expect students to pay us $80 (tuition),
when better advantages are offered
elsewhere for less money?’’ he asked.

Enrollment had dwindled from nearly
500 during Robert E. Lee’s presidency to
around 180 in 1896. Dr. Hogue and two col-
leagues presented a report that recommend-

4

ed an optimum enrollment between 300 and
500 students. Students themselves were seen
as the best agents to attract other good
students, and the report concluded with the
comment at the top of this article. Cren-
shaw noted that this “warning . . , although
more needful in 1896 than today (1969),
may well be kept in mind at Washington and
Lee and all institutions with long and
honorable histories. ”’

So it is that coeducation has been talked
about at Washington and Lee for nearly a
century. It’s been voted down and up by the
faculty, ponderously pondered by first one
committee, then another, polled and re-
polled by the students, and—get ready,
now—actually tried!

After the faculty voted 9-1 against
coeducation in 1902, even though both the
Ring-tum Phi and The Southern Collegian
supported the idea, it was pretty mucha
dead issue for 40 years. December 7, 1941,
changed that.

Six weeks after Pearl Harbor W&L men
were falling in line at the recruiting booths

 

‘The issue then was much
the same as it is now—
concern over the quality of
the educational experience
at Washington and Lee and
the ability of the University
to attract students. ’

 

and draft boards so rapidly that the war-
time solvency of the University was in
doubt. On January 29, 1942, the faculty
proposed to teach without pay in a summer
session that would serve two important pur-
poses: help accelerate graduation for
students facing military service, and offer a
way for the University to avoid or reduce
financial loss. What’s more, the faculty
resolution said:

“The faculty is of the opinion that the
admission of women to the 1942 summer
session is necessary to accomplish the se-
cond of these purposes, especially in view

of present uncertainty about the number of
men who are likely to enroll for summer
work.’’ Significantly, the resolution added,
“‘The faculty has no idea of proposing that
the admission of women should be made a
permanent policy of Washington and Lee.”’

Further, the faculty was inclined to
selectivity among women. Only those “who
have been in residence at least one year at a
college and women from the local com-
munity who are living in their homes” were
to be admitted that summer. On February 6,
the Board of Trustees resolved that ‘‘in light
of the existing emergency” it would approve
the faculty recommendation regarding the
summer of 42.

Twenty-eight women enrolled. Their
names don’t appear in the Alumni Direc-
tory, but they do in the Registrar’s records.
Only five came from outside Rockbridge
County, and 16 were from Lexington.

The next summer half of the women
enrolled came from afar. The other three
were from Lexington. It seems the faculty
chose to become even more selective,
limiting admission to “teachers and those
not teachers who are living with friends or
relatives in the local community.’’ And the
faculty directed that “no publicity cam-
paign be entered into in connection with
such admission.”’

(Today, it is possible for area women to
enroll at Washington and Lee as “special
students” and receive credit that can be
transferred to degree programs at other col-
leges. Of 18 “special students” enrolled this
year, most were women.)

Other remedies, it turned out, were
found to provide a fiscal base for the vir-
tually empty University. President Francis
P. Gaines struck deals with the government
to use the campus for training purposes,
first with a unit of the Army Specialized
Training Program, then with the School for
Special and Morale Services. No further
mention is made of women students in
either faculty or Trustee war-time minutes.
The late Dean Frank J. Gilliam once
described the summer women’s program as
‘‘an embarrassment,’’ so little was the
response.

In the late 1960’s the world began to
change for America’s men’s colleges. When

 

     
  
  
   

.
.

Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, F ‘
Marshall, Sewanee, Davidson, a
began to study and adopt coe
ripples washed across Was
Lee—and Hollins, Sweet]

 

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

President Huntley explain why consid
tions were different i in the law school

 

tors affecting admissions statistics in order

to determine further consideration of the
report and its conclusions.” .
The next time the Board met it heard»

 
    

regarding coed ucation, principally the i
fluence of accreditors and federal law. He
recommended the law school accept women

 

a

   
 
 
 

popular é — uring the 1970° S.

Majorities of those voting
were against

said they

OED IEE IIE IIOPE DE EE

burden to produce a . recommendation. |
Chaired by Trustee Frank C. Brooks of |

Baltimore, the committee sought faculty

and student opinion, examined admissions
uitment reports. and forecasts, and
re PC orts from former all-male col-

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

jeal ommittee’s report '
pres snted to the Board for discussion i in
1975, the two major volumes were
lemented by a summary document that
included a lawyerly analysis of the question.
Arguments i in favor of coeducation were |

 

- cited and forcefully refuted, one by one;

arguments in favor of remaining all-male
were just as clearly defined and equally
rebutted, one by one. —

   

 

/ coeducation: in J 1972 and ‘and it wa

 

 

4 class, favors staying al all-male among some 7

60% of those participating. A substantial
omaionty of students i in the S a eens “I

  

“ of the Committee on Coeducation, the”

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

eid at length the Report e

 
  

 
 

Board of Trustees concluded that —

] fashington and Lee should remain all male
at the undergraduate ,
tion of mutually agreeable eichath ,
cooperative arrangements with our
neighboring women’s colle
Pid what some al un

 
 

       
   
   
 

are

if

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Once a General...

Walt Michaels, ’51, Returns to the Sidelines as Head Coach of New Jersey’s Generals

Shortly after he was named head coach of the New
Jersey Generals, Walt Michaels, ’51, received a con-
gratulatory note from one of his Washington and Lee
classmates, Justice Sol Wachtler of the New York State
Court of Appeals.

Wrote Wachtler: “‘. . . I want to observe that you have
not come too far Michaels. You started with the Generals
and now you are right back where you started. I hope the
people in the Meadowlands appreciate you as much as we
at Wilson Field did.’’

Until Wachtler’s note, Michaels had been too preoc-
cupied with his new position to make the connection.

“Tl hadn’t fully realized I was becoming a General
again,’ observes Michaels. “I guess I’ve come full circle.’’

So he has.

The pose is familiar. Bent at the waist, hands on his
knees, Walt Michaels examines the scene unfolding in front
of him. Every so often he breaks the spell. He comes out of
that half-crouch, removes the everpresent baseball cap with
the Generals’ five-star logo on the crown, and runs his hand
through his hair. Then he returns to the half-crouch, his
eyes riveted on the field.

It is mid-February. The Central Florida sun peeks
through gathering clouds as the New Jersey Generals of the
United States Football League practice on a soccer field at
sprawling Central Florida University in Orlando. The
Generals are preparing for their second season. So is the
United States Football League.

This will be Michaels’ first season with the USFL
Generals. But it is the 33rd year of his professional football
career—a career that began in 1951 when he received his
bachelor’s degree in psychology from Washington and Lee
and joined the Cleveland Browns. In 10 seasons as one of
professional football’s finest linebackers, Michaels played
on two National Football League championship teams
(1954 and 1955) and was named to the Pro Bow] four times.

He retired as a player in 1962 and has coached in the
pros ever since. From 1977 to 1983 he was head coach of the
NFUs New York Jets. That ended in February 1983 when
Michaels unexpectedly announced his retirement from the
Jets, thereby touching off a storm of controversy. For 10
months in 1983 he was away from football for the first time
since high school.

Then on December 20, the New Jersey Generals named
Michaels to succeed Chuck Fairbanks as head coach.
Michaels was back. Back with a new team, in a new league,
presenting a new challenge. But the game is the same.

“It’s still a matter of blocking and tackling, same today
as it was when I played at Washington and Lee,”’ says

6

Michaels. ‘“‘When that changes, I guess I’ll be gone. For
now, it’s still fun. I’m having fun.”’

October 28, 1951. Shields-Watkins Field in Knoxville,
Tennessee. Washington and Lee’s Generals trail the Univer-
sity of Tennessee, the nation’s eighth ranked college foot-
ball team, 27-6 at the half. In the second half, the Generals
rally for two touchdowns even though quarterback Gil
Bocetti is sidelined with a back injury. The brilliant come-
back falls short. The Generals lose 27-20. Tennessee’s fabl-
ed coach General Bob Neyland admits afterward, “... we
were lucky. ”’

That afternoon W&L senior fullback and linebacker
Walt Michaels ran for 78 yards, scored two touchdowns,
kicked two extra points, and made numerous tackles.

Thirty-three years later Michaels leans back in his chair
in the Orlando motel room that serves as his training camp
office and opens a floodgate of memories: “We should’ve
beaten Tennessee that day, had them on the ropes. We went
down there with 36 players. Tennessee came out with 80.
We fought them right down to the end, in Knoxville, no
less.”’

Walt Michaels’ roots are buried deep in the soil of Penn-
sylvania’s coal mining country. That is where two
Washington and Lee football coaches—Art Lewis and Carl
Wise—found Michaels in 1947. They were not the only col-
lege coaches who knew the way to Swoyerstown, Pa., of
course. Twenty other colleges had dispatched coaches to
Michaels’ home with scholarship offers.

To this day, Michaels remembers the dilemma. His
father, a coal miner who had changed his name from
Wladek Majka to Walter Michaels Sr. upon his arrival from
Poland, had died when Walt was 16. So when the colleges
came courting, Michaels turned to his mother for advice.

“I was only 17 years old. What did I know? My mother
said, ‘What do you want from me? You at least graduated
high school. You choose your school.’ I went to my high
school teachers and my coaches for advice,’’ Michaels says.
“At that time the emphasis for all of us who got scholar-
ships was to go where you could get a good education. To-
day the emphasis might be on going where you have the
best chance to become a professional player.

“T have a son going to the University of Connecticut.

My feeling was—the thing I told my son was—if you’re
good enough, the professional teams will find you. Get the
education. That’s the key.’’

Michaels’ decision was ultimately between Washington
and Lee and Cornell. “I was choosing between two fine in-
stitutions. I couldn’t lose,’’ he says. “In the end I chose

 

Michaels watches his Generals practice.

W&L primarily because of the academic standards and the
traditions of the school. It was the right decision.”’

Michaels undoubtedly could have chosen an easier
path, even in those days before the term “student-athlete”
became a contradiction in terms for many schools with big-
time athletic programs. Back in 1979 when Michaels was
coaching the Jets, New York Times sports columnist Dave
Anderson wrote:

“Walt Michaels is not your basic coach who took a
phys-ed course at a college where football is more impor-
tant than the library. Walt Michaels graduated from
Washington and Lee... .’’

Almost invariably stories that profile Michaels mention
his degree from Washington and Lee, often noting that he
majored in psychology. That is clearly as much a source of
pride for Michaels as his countless football
accomplishments.

“T graduated on time, and there were three semesters
when I took 18 hours of work,’’ said Michaels. “‘They did
not sacrifice anything in the way of bending for us as
athletes. We were considered students first, athletes second.

‘‘Would I have gotten better grades if I hadn’t played?
Maybe. But I’m not sure. Maybe playing gave me discipline
to study. I didn’t waste my time saying I can do that an
hour from now. When you finished practicing you had only
so many hours to study before you went to sleep. You didn’t
have time to fool around at Doc’s Corner Store or
McCrum’s Drug Store or the Dutch Inn.’’

That discipline, Michaels argues, is what makes sports
‘“‘absolutely essential’ for youngsters.

‘““Young people need some way to fill up their day so
that they don’t have time to sit around trying to find out
what they can do to tire themselves out so they can go to
bed at night,’’ he says. ‘All you find yourself doing other-
wise is getting lazy. |

“My father came from Europe at a time when that part
of Poland was under Franz Joseph. He did not believe in
wasting time. He did not stop us from playing sports. He
just said, ‘Look, we’ve got certain chores you have to do
when you’re finished.’ When he came home from work and
I came from football practice, we had those chores. We had
to feed some animals, we had to cut some wood. We did
those chores. We fit them into the day’s schedule. When it
came time to go to bed, we didn’t look for any additives,
any supplements, to put us to sleep.’’

A reporter once asked Michaels whether his muscular
build was the product of a weight program: Replied
Michaels: “‘Did you ever try splitting wood? Did you ever
try sawing? I know kids today wouldn’t understand that.
‘Splitting wood?’ they’d say. ‘Is he serious?’ They wouldn’t

7

   

 

 

 

 

believe people were forced to do those things once.”’

_ The roc ts grow deep. | a
January 1, 1951. The Gator Bowl, Jacksonville, Florida.
- Dressed i in v civilian clothes, Walt Michaels i is 5 standing on the

 

 

 

 

“tle the University of Wyoming Cowbo: ys in the only bowl
game: WEL ever haat = 7

 

 

hotel room and awoke i in a hospital room minus his appen-
dix. The. emergency appendectomy denied him an oppor-

v a8 oe

tunity to p lay in the Gator Bowl which the Generals lost

 

   

   
   

 

ey may need a strait jacket to keep me out of that ©
me,” Michaels told a Richmond i sports writer a a day

    

time I ever missed a game in my |
behind the steel-rimmed glass

    
 
 

 

\
‘\

  
 
     

 
 

(1947-48) and the New Yor!
onsantt 49, with the New Y

   

fe ; sional. football. Jim

      
 
 

  

   

play i in the league. Baltimore Colts coach h Frat nk Kush at-
tended Washington ai and Lee for a semester. Kush not-

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

Cleveland Panthers (1 920), Akron Pros (1920) |
e John F. Barrett, 719, Hammond Pros (1919, 1922-23),

Chicago Tigers (1920);

e Samuel Graham, "19, Cleveland I

mond Pros (1920);
e Albert F. Pierotti, ’2:
Cleveland Panthers (1920), }
Boston Bulldogs (1926), Pro
Boston Braves (1929);
e Edmund M. Cameron,
e Marvin Mattox, ’24,
¢ Charles Van Horne, °27,
Tornados (1929);

 

 

° Bill Chipley, "49,
Bulldogs (1 949);

 

 
 
   
   
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
    
 
  
   
 
       

   

 

 

 

Known asa

named Ken Anderson from Augustana College,’’ Brown
says, referring to Cincinnati’s All-Pro quarterback. “‘I
always thought of Washington and Lee as a highly-
respected academic school, and we have always started with
the smarts. The players who are bright tend to go up and up
while those who are not so bright tend to level off.’’

Under Brown’s tutelage, Michaels went up and up dur-
ing his 10 years in Cleveland. (He spent one season with Green
Bay but was traded back to Cleveland.)

“In addition to being very bright, Walt was an excellent
professional linebacker because of his mobility—
undoubtedly the result of his playing fullback in college,”’
Brown says.

‘“‘Walt has succeeded because he is stable. He has no
pretensions. He is no act. He is a square deal.”’

The feeling is mutual. Michaels credits his Washington
and Lee experience with a large measure of his success. He
credits his years under Paul Brown with an equal measure
of that success. Without question, his coaching methods
reflect Brown’s influence. But they reflect something more.

““Coaching,’’ Michaels says, “‘is no different from
teaching. Your best teachers are those who can relate to the
subject. People understand immediately as you present the
material. Certain teachers have a knack of presenting the
material so that the student relates to it immediately.

“I had great teachers at Washington and Lee. Hinton
and Jenks, Crenshaw and Royston. I could list them all. It

“players’ coach,” Michaels is a stickler for details and demands hard work from his team.

    

molded my coaching methods, though I didn’t know it at
the time. Years later when you have to teach someone,
whether as a coach or as a parent or whatever, you draw
naturally on those experiences in the classroom. You don’t
imitate the teachers’ methods. You incorporate those
methods.

“And it was not only my W&L experiences. It was 10
years playing under Paul Brown. It was 10 years coaching
under Weeb Ewbank (former New York Jets coach). It was
being exposed to Vince Lombardi (the legendary Green Bay
Packers coach) twice when I played under him in the Pro
Bowl. Certain people have a magnetism when you listen to
them.

“Tl remember sitting in Doremus Gymnasium as a
freshman and listening to President Frances Pendleton
Gaines. I was just a young pup. And I was spellbound.”’’

Michaels never intended to be a football coach. It just
happened. Yet, it was so natural. Like those who taught
him, Michaels has a knack for getting his message across.
One of his former Jets players, Greg Buttle, once called
Michaels “‘different from any other coach. He tells you how
to do things, not simply that you made a mistake. ”’

The late Billy Hinton and Walter Flick, psychology pro-
fessors during Michaels’ years, would have understood
precisely what Greg Buttle meant.

“My players learn because they see the other player do it
properly,’’ says Michaels. ‘““They learn much faster than if I

9

Once a General

Orchestrating the pre-game drills (right) and meeting
with fans and old friends after a pre-season scrim-
mage, Michaels is called “a square deal” by his
former mentor, Paul Brown of the Cincinnati
Bengals.

 

 

say, ‘Look at that mistake you made. You’re not supposed
to do it that way.’ He can’t relate to that. The only thing he
knows is he’s not supposed to do it that way. He hasn’t seen
how to do it right.

“It’s a matter of ‘praise versus reproof—straight out of
my W&L psychology classes. Evidently Doc Hinton and
Doc Flick did a good job.’’

September 1963. Alumni Stadium, Boston. The New
York Jets are opening the season against the Boston
Patriots. The Jets have suffered injuries to three of their
linebackers. In a coaches’ meeting the week before the
game, someone suggests that Michaels, an assistant coach
with the Jets, ought to suit up.

“We were joking about my playing, ’’ Michaels recalls.
“T said that I could probably still play linebacker as well or
better as anybody we had on the Jets. Next thing I knew
I’m out on the field. ’’

Michaels started at right linebacker that day and played
that entire game in 80 degree temperatures. “I was 33 years
old and hadn’t played in two years,’’ Michaels says. “Don’t
ask me how I did it. I was wise enough not to do it again.’’

Michaels is 55 now. He looks as if he could line up and
play. He weighs 10 pounds more than he did at W&L but
confesses that the weight is distributed a bit differently
now. Undoubtedly there are times when he wishes he could
go out on the field and do the job the way he wants it done.

“Coaching is far more difficult than playing,’’ he says.
“As a player you control your destiny. I can go out on the
field and make it happen. I can play my can off,”’ he says.
‘As a coach I’m responsible for whether you play your can
off. But I can’t go out on the field and do it.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

i
- . -

 

‘there will be ceauality, provided the league continues And
that is a matter of I |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pant tat

       

 

ODK-PBK Honors

Omicron Delta Kappa “Taps’ Watt, 3 Alumni; Phi Beta Kappa Inducts McCardell

Washington and Lee University’s Alpha
Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, the
honorary fraternity for campus leaders,
held its annual initiation, or “tap day,’’
ceremonies during the Founders’ Day
Convocation.

W&L President John D. Wilson
delivered the principal address for the con-
vocation program.

During the initiation ceremonies, 26
W&L law and undergraduate students were
“‘tapped”’ into membership in the fraternity
along with Washington and Lee Dean
William J. Watt and three prominent alum-
ni of the University—J. Carter Fox of West
Point, Va., W. Hayne Hipp of Greenville,
S.C., and William J. Wilcox Jr. of Oak
Ridge, Tenn.

ODK was founded at Washington and
Lee in 1914 and recognizes superior leader-
ship achievements in various areas of cam-
pus life.

Watt, a member of the University’s
faculty since 1955, has been Dean of the
College (W&L’s arts and sciences division)
since 1971. He will resign from that position
at the end of the current academic year and
will return to full-time teaching as professor
of chemistry in the fall of 1985 following a
one-year sabbatical leave.

A native of Carbondale, Ill., Watt has
served as chairman of the National Dean’s
Conference and is former president of the
Conference of Academic Deans of the
Southern States. He taught at Cornell and
Davidson prior to joining the W&L faculty
where he has been a participant in the
Robert E. Lee Research Program and has
sponsored National Science Foundation
research grants for W&L undergraduates.

Fox is a 1961 graduate of W&L. He
received the M.B.A. degree from the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He is president and chief
executive officer of The Chesapeake Cor-
poration of Virginia, a paper company. He
has been active in W&L alumni affairs,
previously serving as president of the
University’s annual fund campaign.

Hipp is a 1962 graduate of W&L. He
earned the M.B.A. from the Wharton
School of Business at the University of
Pennsylvania. He is president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of the Liberty Corporation,
a South Carolina-based insurance and

12

 

 

William J. Watt (right), dean of the College, was inducted into the University’s Alpha Chapter of ODK
during Founders’ Day convocation ceremonies. Alumni recognized were (from left) J. Carter Fox, 61,
of West Point, Va.; E. Ross Kyger IIT, 63, of Houston; and W. Hayne Hipp, ’62, of Greenville, S.C.

S — <

an ovation during the ceremonies.

broadcasting holding company. He is a
trustee of the Greenville County School
District, president of the Metropolitan
YMCA and of the Urban League. He is ac-
tive in alumni affairs at W&L.

Wilcox is a 1943 W&L graduate who
received his M.S. from the University of
Tennessee. He is director of the nuclear divi-

 

 

Rupert N. Latture, ’15, age 92, professor of politics, emeritus, sole surviving founder of ODK, receives

sion of Union Carbide Corporation. He is a
member of the Oak Ridge city council and
the Oak Ridge Hospital board. He is a
fellow of the American Institute of Physics
and a member of the American Association
for the Advancement of Science.

In addition to inducting the three alum-
ni, the ODK Alpha Circle recognized the ac-

 

complishments of a fourth alumnus, E.
Ross Kyger III of Houston, during the con-
vocation. A 1963 graduate and a member of
ODK, Kyger is chief of cardiovascular
surgery and medical director of the vascular
laboratories at St. Joseph’s Hospital in
Houston.

The W&L students inducted into ODK
were:

LAW STUDENTS (all third-year): John
P. Gallagher of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Mary
M. Johnston of Richmond, Ind.; Timothy
J. Kilgallon of Potomac, Md.; Peter Mallory
of Rossiter, Pa.; and, Patricia A. Reed of
Morristown, N.J.

SENIORS: Andrew W. Asimos of York,
Pa.; John D. Cole of Elberton, Ga.; Enrico
A. de Alessandrini of Virginia Beach; J.
Scott Doyle of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Lee R.
Feldman of North Miami Beach, Fla.;
William G. Foster of Newark, Del.; Jeffrey
G. Gee of Johnson City, Tenn.; Gunnar K.
Jordan of Fairfax, Va.; Michael F. Killea of
Freeport, N.Y.; Andrew J. MacLellan of
Flemington, N.J.; W. Drew Perkins Jr. of
Lufkin, Texas; Tori C.A. Richardson of Irv-
ington, N.J.; Timothy G. Schurr of
Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; Michael E. Singer
of Dallas, Texas; and, T. Jeffrey Wells of
Virginia Beach.

JUNIORS: J. Coleman Dawson III of
Houston; Ben C. Hale of Tracy City, Tenn.;
David A. Sizemore of Covington; B. Scott
Tilley of Richmond; Robert J. Tomaso of
Milford, Mass.; and, Christopher H.
Williams of Newark, Del.

 

Phi Beta Kappa inducts 33

 

Thirty undergraduate students at
Washington and Lee and three W&L alumni
have been elected into membership in the
University’s Gamma of Virginia Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa.

The new Phi Beta Kappa members were
formally inducted on March 7 when the
chapter held its annual convocation in Lee
Chapel.

Mancur Olson, distinguished professor
of economics at the University of
Maryland, was the featured speaker for the
convocation. Olson’s speech was entitled
“The Rise and Decline of Nations:
Afterthoughts.’’

William J. Wilcox Jr, *43, of Oak
Ridge, Tenn., in 1969 photograph.

Phi Beta Kappa speaker Mancur Olson, distinguished economist, talks with students.

 

 

PBK honoree John M. McCardell Jr, ’71, was a
teacher at last summer’s Alumni College.

The Gamma of Virginia Chapter was in-
stalled at Washington and Lee in 1911 and
annually elects a limited number of
students whose academic record and
character are superior.

In addition to current undergraduates
and two members of last year’s graduating
class, the W&L chapter has elected as an
honorary member John M. McCardell Jr., a
1971 graduate of the University.

McCardell is a professor of history at
Middlebury College in Vermont. Widely
recognized as an authority on the history of
the antebellum South, he is the author of
The Idea of a Southern Nation.

 

Sx

The students elected to membership in
Phi Beta Kappa are:

Seniors: Stephen B. Brooks of Hickory,
N.C.; Roger L. Butler of Hampton, Va.;
Paul F. Chapman of Short Hills, N.J.; John
J. Delany III of Lexington; John R. Dent of
Columbia, S.C.; Paul N. Farquharson of Ft.
Meade, Md.; Herbert O. Funsten III of
Williamsburg, Va.; John Lee Graves of
Virginia Beach; Richard A. Haight of
Rowayton, Conn.; Stephen A. Jones of
Wilmington, Del.; Keith T. Kadesky of
Dallas; Kevin M. Kadesky of Dallas; An-
drew J. MacLellan of Flemington, N.J.;
Charles W. Mason of Lexington; Alan E.
McQuiston Jr. of Briarcliff Manor, N-Y.;
Jerome C. Philpott of Englewood, Colo.;
Scott S. Prysi of Alexandria, Va.; Russell R.
Rosler of Toledo, Ohio; Thomas W.
Sackfield of Louisville, Ky.; James W.
Smith of Flossmoor, IIl.; John P. Sutton III
of Columbia, S.C.; T. Jeffrey Wells of
Virginia Beach; and, Marion Eugene Wood
III of Roanoke.

Juniors: Gabriel B. Balazs of Lexington;
Michael S. Bearup of Silver City, N.M.;
David L. Harrar II of Rydal, Pa.; Ken L.
Moles of Roanoke; Clarke H. Morledge of
Williamsburg; Robert J. Tomaso of
Milford, Mass.; and, Christopher Williams
of Newark, Del.

1983 Graduates: Karl S. Keller of Scotts-
bluff, Neb., and James C. McCabe of
Charleston, W.Va.

13

At home in front of his computer terminal, Tom Ziegler records the conversations of his characters.

 

Charles Mason Photo

Lexington to New York in Nine Steps

We&L Drama Professor Tom Ziegler Hoping His Play Will Move Uptown to Broadway

Tom Ziegler can hear them talking.
Sometimes they talk for hours on end. They
talk about anything. And everything.
Sometimes they argue. Often they laugh.
Then mayte they cry. That doesn’t matter,
really, as long as they keep talking.

Finally, the voices stop. And when they
do, Ziegler quits tapping the keys of his per-
sonal computer. Then comes the tough
part, the part where he must go back and
make those hours of conversation actually
say something. Not just to him. But to
anyone. And everyone. Once he does that,
Ziegler will have what he wants. He’ll have a
play.

*k *k *
On an unseasonably warm February
evening, the crowds are beginning to de-
scend on New York City’s theatre district,

14

by Jeffery G. Hanna

queing up in front of the St. James and the
Schubert, the Lunt-Fontainne and the Uris,
plunking down $40 for a ticket. It’s Broad-

way. And the lights are bright, if no longer

necessarily neon.

Meanwhile, down in Greenwich Village
the lights are going up in the Riverwest
Theatre—a 99-seat theatre so far off the
beaten path that even a New York cabbie
can’t find it without asking directions.
There are no bright lights illuminating the
marquee of the Riverwest Theatre. In fact,
there is no marquee at all.

“We're not exactly Radio City Music
Hall,’’ one of the theatre’s owners, June
Summers, says.

In theatre parlance, the Riverwest is “off
off Broadway.’’ That is both a statement of
geography and of philosophy.

This is where it can all start in New
York. This is often the first step toward
those bright lights some 50 blocks uptown.
The Riverwest’s current offering is a two-act
play entitled The Ninth Step. The
playwright is Tom Ziegler, who, as the
mimeographed Riverwest program explains,
“supports himself” by serving as associate
professor of drama at Washington and Lee
University in Lexington, Virginia.

* *k

Tom Ziegler was a senior at Lewis
University in Lockport, Ill., when he wrote
his first play. He called it Be Pleased to
Reconsider Your Posthumous Situation.

“A silly little play,’’ Ziegler confesses.
“But it was funny. ’’

And it was a start.

Not counting that first play or some

 

I

 

/

 

 

 

 

 

it off to his neph

 

 

   

 

University Theatre in November of 1981.
After tinkering with the script, Ziegler sent a |

, who happens to be an | “A showcase production is a major

\ a a

 

  

rk. The ne hew, in turn, | league, first-class Production d done \

year. That v was i in 1982.
A year later Cook arranged to have the
play “‘read”’ by professional a actr

wanted to know how the lines on the paper

would actually sound. And he liked what he

 

 

 

     

     

 

 

 

_ “Everybody i isa copper at "says June

 

_ plays where that ner not the case, where I’ve

wanted to mug the author.” |
Cook and Ziegler spent many hours |
together prep

 

 

15

 

 

 

 

N.Y. in Nine Steps

“In The Ninth Step playwright Tom Ziegler
masterfully mingles a woman’s journey (step
by step) to self-honesty and her attempt to ask
forgiveness from her 16-year-old daughter in
crucible of flame and emerges with a strong
piece of theatre that packs a low-slung
wallop.”’

When the play closed at the end of
February Ziegler spent a week making
several more minor revisions before sending
the script back to New York where the folks
at the Riverwest will begin the process of
shopping it around, trying to find investors
willing to spend the $750,000 it takes to put
a play on Broadway.

For Ziegler, it’s now a matter of waiting
for the phone to ring with the news that The
Ninth Step has made the final step, the big-
gest step, to Broadway.

“‘No matter what happens next,’’ says
Zeigler, ‘just getting the play to New York
City has been an incredible experience for
me.”’

* * &

On the desk in Tom Ziegler’s corner of-
fice above the old Troubadour Theatre are a
hammer, some nails, and a roll of tape. Not
tools generally associated with a
playwright.

Then again Zeigler did not get his start
in the theatre writing plays. He started by
designing sets. He earned an extra $350 a
year as technical director of the theatre at
Aurora East High School in suburban
Chicago where he taught English and was
yearbook adviser after he had received a
master’s degree from Northern Illinois
University.

“The writer in me eventually emerged,’’
he says. “After having designed sets for
hundreds and hundreds of plays and having
sat through those night after night I began
thinking, ‘Boy, I could do this.’

““My father was a writer, and I was ex-
posed at an early age to the process of
recording my thoughts and observations. I
expect I intuitively picked up my father’s
knack for looking at something and seeing
more to it than is on the surface.

“I think everybody is a writer in a sense.
Everybody looks and sees and has feelings
and impressions. The only difference is the
writer puts those thoughts down, sorts
them, organizes them, and makes them into

16

 

Director Roderick Cook (left) and Ziegler in the River West Theatre

something that it is a pleasure to read.’’

Ziegler begins his plays not with a plot
but with an impression and a couple of
characters. Then he lets the characters take
over and write the play for him as they con-
verse for hours in his mind.

“In the case of The Ninth Step I was
visiting my sister-in-law, a recovering
alcoholic who routinely got telephone calls
from fellow Alcoholics Anonymous
members. She had a tendency to deal with
things in comedic terms the same as Joanna
does in my play. She told me the story of her
taking the ninth step with her son and ex-
husband. From there I sat down and started
toying with the idea. Once I can get a
character, I’m on my way.

“It takes me less than two weeks to write
a play,’’ he says. ‘Then it takes a year to
make it work, to get it into shape and beat
on it.

“T never know exactly where the play is
going when I start. At the end of The Ninth
Step after the reunion between Joanna and
her daughter has ended unhappily with the
daughter stomping out, Joanna goes to a
potted plant and digs out a bottle she has
hidden there. I didn’t know the bottle was
there until I got to that scene. It was as big a

surprise to me as everyone else. But then I
saw it and said, ‘Yes, this lady has been ly-
ing to everybody all these years’.’’

Ziegler is a firm believer that a play
should try to say one thing, have one idea it
is trying to convey. The key is getting that
message across without hitting the audience
on the head with it.

“T don’t know of any play that doesn’t
have a message. I don’t even know of a
television sitcom that doesn’t have a
message because people are dealing with
specific problems and the way they deal
with them is done with an intent to amuse
or impress you in some way. The reason that
you like it is that you identify with
something that is going on there,’’ he says.

“On the other hand I don’t know of any
play that comes right out and says that this
is its message. Maybe a propagandist like
(Bertolt) Brecht does that. But for the
most part no good dramatic writer forces
his message on you. He hides it. I don’t
think anybody sits down to write a play to
teach anybody anything. I think they write
plays to move people.’’

The Ninth Step, insists Ziegler, is not a
play about alcoholism or Alcoholics
Anonymous. That is a key element in the

play. And Ziegler spent two years attending
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and
reading everything he could find about the
disease to make the play as accurate as
possible.

“But it is a play about relationships, not
alcoholism,’’ he says. “‘It is set in an
alcoholic environment because that’s where
I conceived it and that’s where all the people
started to come from. It’s a stronger idea
because it’s such a severe situation. But
when Joanna rehearses the lines she is going
to say to her daughter, it’s something
anyone can identify with. I’ve had that same
uncomfortable feeling about not being able
to say what I want to say to my own
children.’’

Ziegler’s other plays are based on
similarly “‘severe situations’—abortion
(Weeds) and euthanasia (Love Poems). He
just finished a play entitled Sunset Terrace
about a woman put in a convalescent home
against her will.

“T love to go after very, very heavy topics
and look at them in a way that I don’t think
anybody else has looked at them before,”’
he says.

One way Ziegler looks at all his topics is
with humor. He claims to be a comedy
writer at heart. And there are times when
he’ll laugh aloud at what one of his
characters says to him. Usually the audience
will agree with Ziegler’s sense of humor.
But not always.

“A joke that gets no laughter is the
world’s greatest silence,’’ says Ziegler. ‘“The
humor of my plays is the most important
part to me because you get instant feed-
back. I am after the humor first because the
rest of it is fairly easy if you can get the au-
dience laughing. The harder they laugh at
the beginning, the more they cry at the
end.”’

Certainly that philosophy holds up in
The Ninth Step. The Riverwest Theatre au-
dience changed from uproarious laughter
midway through the second act to utter
silence, from “‘ha, ha’ to ‘‘boo hoo” as
Cook put it, when the play reached its
climax and it was evident that the reunion
between mother and daughter was not
destined to be a happy one.

“Often I have a problem at the end of a
play because people are still looking for

 

funny lines. You can’t give them anything
that could possibly be construed as humor.
We cut some funny lines toward the end of
The Ninth Step simply because we didn’t
want the audience laughing when we knew
what was coming up,’’ says Ziegler.

“T could have had the mother and
daughter kiss and hug at the end. It’s possi-
ble that would have happened. But that’s
not what I wanted to say. Their relationship
may get even stronger because of all the
pain. That’s the possibility that I see hap-
pening at the end.”’

When he is in the midst of recording his
characters’ conversations there are in-
evitable moments when the talking stops,
when the lines won’t come.

“I get up and leave and say, ‘OK, you’re
going to be stubborn but I will wait longer
than you? Invariably it is like a spoiled child
who is demanding to have his way and
holding his breath. If you turn around and
walk away, within a few minutes the child is
chasing after you.’’

* * *

Teaching has helped Ziegler develop that
and other techniques he uses in his writing.

‘Teaching is a challenge because it keeps
you on your toes. It makes you explain
yourself. Otherwise you would not have to

“You can get away with a lot when you don’t have to explain yourself.”

Peter Cronin Photo

do that. You can get away with a lot when
you don’t have to explain yourself,’’ says
Ziegler, who taught drama at the University
of Toledo and the College of the Virgin
Islands before joining the W&L faculty in
1976.

“Watching a student struggle with a
scene that is so obvious to me and then try-
ing to communicate with that student that
this is what needs to be done at this
point—that has been a vital element in my
development.’’

His relationship with Washington and
Lee has helped in other ways, too. For in-
stance, one of his former W&L students,
John Jacobsen, ’79, is now with a New York
casting agency and cast The Ninth Step for
the Riverwest. Another W&L alumnus,
John McQuiggan, ’56, is now a New York
producer. He was among those producers
who went to see The Ninth Step in New
York.

For Ziegler, teaching at W&L is more
than a means of supporting himself. Inside
the classroom as well as outside it, he has
been learning his craft while helping others
learn the same craft.

Mostly, he has been listening to those
characters of his talk to each other. If he’s
lucky, they may just talk his way onto
Broadway.

17

by Richard W. Oram

Refererence and Public Services Librarian

Michael
Miley's
Lexington

The Joys and Sorrows
Of Sorting and Storing
8,000 Glass Negatives

In the University Library

A collection of several thousand photographic prints,
while perhaps too large for your grandmother’s photo
albums, can easily be tucked away in a couple of filing
cabinets. A comparable number of negatives on safety film
takes up even less space. But a librarian is tempted to give in
to despair when confronted by the prospect of sorting and
storing thousands of the heavy glass negatives—some as
large as 24-by-20 inches—used by turn-of-the-century
photographers. Just such a collection arrived in the Univer-
sity Library’s special collections vault in late 1982.

One could not help but be overwhelmed by the Miley
collection, 40 dust-covered wooden crates filled with 70
years of Lexington history. The sheer bulk of the collection
is a tribute to the industry of Michael Miley and his son
Henry, Lexington’s premier photographers from the late
1860’s to the mid-1930’s. Michael Miley moved to this area
soon after the Civil War and opened a studio, called the
Stonewall Art Gallery, on the corner of Main and Nelson
Streets. Early in his Lexington career, he assured himself of
a place in Southern history as ‘‘General Lee’s
photographer”’ by taking a celebrated series of Lee por-
traits. Both father and son were technical innovators; the
Mileys collaborated on the development of a three-color
photographic process that attracted national attention in
the late 1890’s but was too cumbersome to gain full accep-
tance. Though their experimentation brought them few
financial rewards, the Mileys made a good living from their
portraits (a rough calculation shows that they produced
about 500 a year) and from the sale of prints of Lee and
other notables.

A portion of the vast accumulation of negatives at the

18

 

£

Michael Miley (1887)

 

 

Margaret Junkin Preston, Lexington poet and sister-in-law of Stonewall
Jackson (1882)

              

EEE IPE? ERE EEE?

 

 

 

Michael Miley’s Lexington

 

C. M. Figgatt, who made off with the assets of the Bank of Lexington in
the 1890’s

the George C. Marshall Library followed before the boxes
arrival in the University Library last year.

Our processing project, now beginning its second year,
is aimed at stabilizing the condition of the collection,
which will occupy 60 feet of shelf space. The Mileys’
lifework is preserved on thin films of gelatin emulsion
which exerts a tremendous pull on the plate. The emulsion
swells and shrinks in response to environmental changes;
ultimately, it peels away from its mount. The climate-
control of the rare book vault can slow this process, but it
connot stop it altogether. Further damage results from ex-
posure to abrasive dust and the presence of acidity in old
manila envelopes and wooden crates. Thus student
assistants clean each plate carefully with a soft brush
before placing it in an acid-free sleeve, which will in turn be
placed inside a special negative box capable of holding 20
pounds of glass. Plates which are cracked in only one or
two places can be taped to a new glass mount; more
seriously damaged ones are usually discarded.

A few negatives of importance have come to light dur-
ing the sorting process. Among these was a previously un-
published portrait of the Lexington poet Margaret Junkin
Preston, one of the South’s most popular authors in the
1860’s and ’70’s. The new portrait vividly conveys Mrs.
Preston’s considerable charm and humanity. Another
group of Mileys attracted our attention from the very
beginning: those concerning local architecture and
topography. Many of these plates had already been
separated from the chaos by Lexington photographer Sally
Mann, who also made copyprints of the best ones. Such
scenes as Main Street during Robert E. Lee’s funeral pro-

20

 

 

 

Mii...

 

 

 

Professor and Mrs. John Randolph Tucker of the Washington and Lee
University School of Law

 

 

 

G. B. Larrick, posed against a typical Victorian Photographer’s
backdrop (c. 1870). Note the torn scenery.

 

Children of William A. Anderson (1884) Student researcher Tom Connors The author, Richard W. Oram

cession or the burnt shell of the VMI barracks after the war

are already well known to most Lexingtonians. Others, less
well known—the interior of Gorrell’s drugstore, for
example—will be rich sources for the social historian.

Why bother to preserve the admittedly less exciting in-
dividual portraits on the 5-by-7 plates favored by the
Mileys? One reason is that the collection incorporates
scores of Washington and Lee portraits (and hundreds of
students as well). Until now, the University archives held
relatively few photographs from the late nineteenth and
early twentieth century. Negatives of VMI faculty and
students are being transferred to that institution’s archives.
Secondly, we now have at hand portraits of many notewor-
thy figures in the county’s history, people as diverse as
Jacob Fuller, scholarly headmaster of a classical academy,
Samuel M. Dold, the general store proprietor, and C. M.
Figgatt, the bank embezzler who rocked Lexington by
absconding with thousands of dollars. Though the archive
primarily documents those middle-class citizens (by and
large white) who could afford to have their pictures taken,
the Mileys were also fascinated by the town’s “‘street
characters,’’ and so we get a glimpse of a largely forgotten
segment of society.

Photographs from the collection have already il-
lustrated two articles in the Virginia Cavalcade; others will
be displayed next year in a duPont Hall exhibit on the
origins of Lexington street names. All indications are that
the collection will be frequently consulted by local

historians and photo researchers. That fact inspires us as we

continue to sweep up emulsion fragments and heft boxes of
unsorted glass.

 

“ ali

 

 

The Mileys in storage at the George C. Marshall Library (Sharon Ritenour
photo).

 

Richard W. Oram with student researchers Ben St. Clair and Andy Haring
in the rare bookroom vault

21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(901) 685-8489 | dT =e a tia Q Inorganic
Chemistry,

 

 

 

 

       

   
    

John W. Elrod, chairman of the depart-
ment of philosophy at Iowa State University
in Ames, Iowa, has been appointed Dean of
the College at Washington and Lee.

Elrod’s appointment is effective August

1. He will succeed William J. Watt, who an-
~ nounced last May that he will leave the

deanship he has held since 1971. Watt will
return to full-time teaching as professor of
chemistry at W&L in the fall of 1985 follow-
ing a year’s leave of absence.

The College (of arts and sciences) is one
of the two undergraduate divisions at W&L.
The other is the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

Elrod, 44, is recognized as an authority
on Danish philosopher and theologian
Soren Kierkegaard. He is the author of two
books on Kierkegaard, including the 1981
volume Kierkegaard and Christendom,
published by the Princeton University
Press. In addition, he has published
numerous articles and book reviews on
Kierkegaard. |

“I am delighted that Professor Elrod d has :

 

greed to accept this appointment as Dean |
of the College,”’ said Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson. “He is a |
distinguished scholar and teacher and has
an established record of administrative suc-
cess. We all look forward to welcoming him
and his family this summer.”’

Elrod was recommended for the dean-
ship by a nine-member dean search commit-
tee which conducted a national search for
Watt’s successor and screened more than
200 candidates for the position.

A native of Griffin, Georgia, Elrod
received his bachelor’s degree from
Presbyterian College in 1962 and earned
both his master’s and Ph.D. degrees from
Columbia University.

He was a lecturer in philosophy of _
religion at New York’s Union Theological
Seminary from 1969 to 1971 when he joined
the faculty of Iowa State University as assis-
tant professor of philosophy. He was pro-
moted to associate professor in 1975 and to
full professor i in 1981. He was named chair-
man of the 15-member department of

  
  
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

philosophy in 1979. |
At Iowa State, Elrod was chairman of |
several importa mittees, including a
committee that ev d the university’s
general education e the arts
and humanities area |
He has received g earch
on Kierkegaard from the N N-
ment for the Humanities, t
Philosophical Society, and the Iowa
University Sciences and Humanities |
Research Institute.

canamesteniieaieerenemeenstiemeemananemaaeetenmmmemaiennaemntenaetanataaainanmnemen

Se

 

 

John W. Elrod, new dean of the College

 

 

 
    

Elrod to Succeed Watt
As Dean of the College

Philosophy Professor from Iowa State University
To Assume Office at Washington and Lee in August

He is a member of the International Ad-
visory Board for Kierkegaard’s Writings,

which evaluates each translation appearing |

in this uniform translation of Kierkegaard’s
- published works. He is an associate editor
of the International Journal for the
Philosophy of Religion. He also serves as _
the “Kierkegaard reader” for two scholarly

journals and for both the Princeton Univer- |
_ sity Press and the e University of Alabama _

 
  
  

presented a a series

 

Nee

 

hing on shai Lee for ape the

One of those lectures at W&L w. was entitled
“Einstein and Goc ” ’ and was a comparison
of Einstein’s scient i fic and religious ideas

 
 
 

oO ci
Academy of fen the Society for Chris-
tian Philosophy, and the Metaphysical
y of America. He is on the executive
committee of the Society for the Philosophy

of Religion.

Elrod and his wife, Mimi, are the |

parents of two sons, Adam, 15, and Joshua,
12.

3 |

 

GA _, Gazette

University Establishes Computer Science Department, Adds Major, 15 Courses

x >

 

New Department of Computer Science will offer a major and 15 courses.

 

W&L adds new department
in computer science

 

Washington and Lee will establish a new
department of computer science and will
add computer science to its list of academic
majors beginning with the 1984-85
academic year.

Computer science becomes the 31st
undergraduate major at W&L.

Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson had appointed an ad hoc Computer
Science Curriculum Committee to deter-
mine how the University could best meet
the needs of students interested in computer
science.

That committee made its recommenda-
tion to the Committee on Courses and
Degrees, which then made a proposal to the
faculty in February. The faculty approved
the recommendation of a major and the list
of 15 new courses to be offered by the
Department of Computer Science.

Those courses include an Introduction
to Computing Systems, Language
Laboratory, Computer Organization, Data
Structures and Algorithms, Programming
Language Design, Software Tools and
Design, Graphics and Image Processing,
and Artificial Intelligence.

24

 

Students can receive either a bachelor of
arts or a bachelor of science degree in com-
puter science. The major course of study
will include work in mathematics.

According to William J. Watt, Dean of
the College, the decision to establish a ma-
jor in computer science rather than merely
increasing the course offerings was based
on the belief that ‘computer science is a
discipline unto itself and deserves to be
treated as such.’’

As part of its new computer science ma-
jor, the University will create a microcom-
puter laboratory which will be used
primarily for courses dealing with graphics
but will also be used in independent study.

The University is currently conducting a
national search for the head of the new
Department of Computer Science.

 

 

W&L receives gifts
from two foundations

 

Washington and Lee received a $2,500
gift from the Crum and Forster Foundation
of Morristown.

The gift was made to W&L on the
recommendation of the U.S. Insurance
Group, a Crum and Forster organization
which carries Washington and Lee’s

workmen’s compensation insurance.

The U.S. Insurance Group is composed
of the United States Insurance Company,
the North River Insurance Company,
Westchester Fire Insurance Company, and
International Insurance Company.

According to Carol M. Weathers, Loss
Control Representative for the U.S. In-
surance Group, the Crum and Forster Foun-
dation takes a special interest in the support
of educational institutions.

Ms. Weathers presented the gift, which
will be applied toward W&L’s general
operating budget, on behalf of the founda-
tion while Thomas W. Jamison of the Chas.
Lunsford Sons and Associates, Inc., of
Roanoke, W&L's agent for most of its in-
surance, also participated in the
presentation.

Meantime, the University also received a
$1,000 unrestricted grant from the Sears-
Roebuck Foundation.

E.O. Huffman Jr., manager of the Sears-
Roebuck and Company store in Lexington,
presented the Sears grant to Washington
and Lee, which was one of 25 privately sup-
ported colleges and universities in Virginia
to receive the Sears-Roebuck Foundation
grants.

 

Judge-in-residence named

 

Walter V. Schaefer, retired justice of
the Illinois Supreme Court, has been ap-
pointed the second judge-in-residence at
Washington and Lee’s Frances Lewis
Law Center.

Schaefer took up residence at the
Lewis Law Center in March and will be
conducting research on the conflicts
among the courts of appeal, both federal
and state, specifically toward reforms
other than the creation of a new tier of
appellate courts.

According to Thomas L. Shaffer,
director of the Lewis Law Center,
Schaeffer will be in residence during
March and April of this year and during
March of 1985.

The judge-in-residence program was
established at the Lewis Law Center in
1981. U.S. Circuit Judge Luther M.
Swygert of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals was the center’s first judge-in-

 

residence during the 1981-82 academic
year.

A graduate of the University of
Chicago, Schaefer was a professor of law
at Northwestern University from 1940 to
1951 before being named to the Illinois
Supreme Court.

He retired from the court in 1976 and
is currently ‘‘of counsel’’ with the
Chicago law firm of Rothschild, Barry &
Myers. He is the author of the 1967
volume The Suspect and Society.

Since the inauguration of the Lewis
Law Center in 1978, several leading legal
scholars have conducted research as part
of the scholar-in-residence program at the
law center. In addition, the Law Center
has appointed several attorneys-in-
residence.

 

Gee is awarded an ITT
International Fellowship

 

Jeffrey S. Gee, a Washington and Lee
senior from Johnson City, Tenn., has been
awarded an ITT International Fellowship
for graduate study abroad.

Gee is one of 25 United States students
to win one of the fellowships which were
established by the International Telephone
and Telegraph Corporation in 1972 through
the Institute of International Education.

The fellowships are designed to en-
courage the exchange of ideas and skills be-
tween the United States and foreign coun-
tries in the interest of improved understand-
ing and communication. The ITT program
is the largest educational scholarship program
funded by a private corporation.

A geology major at W&L, Gee will use
his fellowship to study paleontology at the
University of Tubingen in Germany.

Gee was elected to membership in Phi
Beta Kappa as a junior and is a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national society
for campus leaders. He is a member of the
varsity swimming team and the W&L Glee
Club. A graduate of Science Hill High
School, he is the son of Dr. and Mrs.
Charles Gee.

 

Superdance raises $35,265

 

Washington and Lee’s sixth annual
Superdance for Muscular Dystrophy raised
a record $35,265 in January.

That was the total received in pledges
and from auxilliary events, including pie-

W&L junior Chris Williams talks with Joshua
Cross, muscular dystrophy poster child, during a
break in the superdance.

throws featuring members of the Universi-
ty’s faculty, administration, and student
body as targets.

In 1983, the 30-hour dance marathon
had drawn pledges and contributions total-
ing $33,500.

According to Superdance co-chairman
Markham Shaw Pyle and Rick de Alessan-
drini, both seniors, W&L’s Superdance last
year ranked as the Muscular Dystrophy
Association’s top campus fund-raising event
on a per capita basis and was 12th among
all colleges and universities.

 

Jarrard honored
by alma mater

 

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology at Washington and Lee, was
recently the recipient of a Distinguished
Alumnus Award from Baylor University
in Waco, Texas.

Jarrard, a native of Waco and a 1955
graduate of Baylor, was one of four
alumni honored by Baylor. Others
honored with Jarrard were Texas Gover-
nor Mark White, Rep. Sam B. Hall Jr.
of Texas, and Joyce Elaine Stripling,
head of pathology at the Texas A&M
University College of Medicine.

The honor is the highest award

 

bestowed by the Baylor Alumni Associa-
tion. To be selected as a distinguished
alumnus, the recipient must be a Baylor
degree holder and must have made a
distinctive contribution to his or her pro-
fession, business, or avocation. In general
the award is given to an individual who
has brought recognition and honor to
Baylor through professional
achievements.

Head of the department of
psychology at Washington and Lee since
1971, Jarrard has been conducting impor-
tant research into a primitive part of the
brain called the hippocampus. For the
past 17 years Jarrard’s research has been
supported by grants from the National
Science Foundation. Last fall he received
a two-year, $80,000 grant for the
research.

While at Baylor Jarrard conducted a
seminar for the department of
psychology. The February issue of the
Baylor Line, Baylor’s alumni magazine,
carried a profile of Jarrard and his
research.

 

Moot court teams
record impressive records

 

Two moot court teams representing
the Washington and Lee School of Law
compiled impressive achievements this
semester.

The law school’s three-member na-
tional team advanced to the quarterfinal
round of the National Moot Court Com-
petition in New York City in January.

The W&L team lost to Case-Western
Reserve in the quarterfinals, thereby
finishing among the top eight teams in
the nation.

Washington and Lee had advanced to
the national competition by finishing se-
cond in the regional competition in
November.

The three students on Washington
and Lee’s team were Kathryn B.
Meadows of Hurricane, W.Va.; Lynn
Boepple of Westwood, N.J.; and, J. Ross
Newell of Virginia Beach. All are second-
year students in the W&L law school.
Tom Shepherd, a third-year law student
from Aberdeen, Miss., coached the team.

Washington and Lee’s team was one
of 29 teams competing in the national
competition in which the participants
argued cases in front of panels of promi-
nent trial attorneys and judges.

2)

cf Gazette

In February the Jessup International
Moot Court team from the W&L law
school won its regional for the sixth con-
secutive time and advanced to the
American semifinal round.

Sponsored by the American Society of
International Law, the competition in-
volves teams of students who argue a
hypothetical case before the international
court of justice.

The regional competition was held at
Catholic University in Washington, D.C.
The five-member Washington and Lee
team defeated teams representing William
and Mary, Catholic, the University of
Maryland, and Georgetown to compile
the only unbeaten record in the opening
round.

In the finals Washington and Lee
defeated the team from the George
Washington University law school.

All regional winners from the United
States will compete in the semifinal round
in April in Washington with the winner
of that competition advancing to the
finals against the winner of the competi-
tion involving international law schools.

The Washington and Lee team was
composed of second-year students Philip
R. Brown of Granville, N.Y., Paul F.
Fletcher III of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., Ellen
H. Gray of Chesapeake, Va., David B.
Poole of Hagerstown, Md., and Patricia
A. Shean of Arlington, Va.

Myra L. Sanderson, a third-year stu-
dent from Rainsville, Ala., serves as
coach of the team.

 

Jewish studies specialist
to join W&L faculty

 

Richard G. Marks, a specialist in
Jewish studies, has been appointed assis-
tant professor of religion at Washington
and Lee, effective with the fall term of
1984.

According to David Sprunt, head of
the religion department at Washington
and Lee, Marks’ appointment will enable
W&L to offer a variety of new courses
on Jewish history and religious thought.

Marks is currently a visiting professor
in the graduate program of religious
studies at Mahidol University in
Thailand.

A 1967 graduate of Raymond College
of the University of the Pacific, he
received his master’s degree in Judaic
studies with emphasis in Rabbinic
literature from Hebrew Union College in

26

 

Richard G. Marks, Jewish studies specialist

Los Angeles. He received the Ph.D. in
Jewish history from UCLA.

He has also studied at Israel’s Hebrew
University Ulpan and spent two months
on Kibbutz Dalya where he studied ar-
chaeology and participated in an
excavation.

Marks is the author of two articles in
scholarly publications. He is a member of
the American Academy of Religion and
the Association for Jewish Studies.

 

 

W&L archaeology program
topic at national meeting

 

The historic archaeology being con-
ducted by Washington and Lee was the basis
of an entire session at the 17th annual
meeting of the Society for Historical Ar-
chaeology held in Williamsburg, Va., earlier
this month.

John M. McDaniel, associate professor
of anthropology at W&L, was the chairman
for the session during which former and
current Washington and Lee students
presented papers on various aspects of the
research that is being conducted in
Rockbridge County through the Universi-
ty’s archaeology laboratory.

In addition to McDaniel, those who
presented papers during the symposium, en-
titled ““The 19th-Century Virginia
Uplands,’’ were: W&L survey archaeologist
James Adams, junior Jack Delany of Lex-
ington, junior Randall Ray of Wake Forest,
N.C., and 1983 graduate Mike Gregory, who

is now a Ph.D. candidate at Arizona State
University.

The papers dealt primarily with the cur-
rent research into Anderson Hollow, a
183-acre tract in western Rockbridge Coun-
ty which has been recommended by the
Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission
for nomination to the National Register of
Historic Places as an archaeological
district.

Two W&L alumni—Ellis Coleman, ’75,
and Parker Potter, ’79—who have worked
with historic site archaeology at
Washington and Lee also made presenta-
tions at the meeting.

 

W&L junior wins
Rikkyo scholarship

 

Randall Chamberlain, a Washington
and Lee junior from Dry Fork, Va., has
become the second W&L student in as many
years to win a full scholarship for study at
Japan’s Rikkyo University.

A sociology major at Washington and
Lee, Chamberlain will enroll at Rikkyo in
April and will spend 10 months at the
Tokyo school. Last year Sean Lennon of
Newark, Ohio, won a similar scholarship.

Washington and Lee has had an ex-
change program with Rikkyo, one of
Japan’s top-ranking private universities,
since 1977. Washington and Lee is one of
four American institutions with which Rik-
kyo has an exchange program. The others
are the University of Chicago, the Universi-
ty of the South, and Kenyon College. Dur-
ing his year at Rikkyo, Chamberlain will
continue to pursue courses in his major
field of study but will also take courses in
Japanese language, Japanese history, and
Japanology. He will live with a Japanese
family while at Rikkyo.

Chamberlain is the son of Mrs. Kaye Y.
Jones of Dry Fork and Banks R.
Chamberlain of Alexandria, Va. He is a
graduate of Tunstall High School.

 

Stene sculpture, prints
in duPont exhibiton

 

Sculpture and prints by Washington and
Lee art professor Larry Stene were featured
as the major winter term exhibition in du-
Pont Gallery during January.

One of the primary pieces in the exhibit,
entitled “Red Green Shift,’’ was a large
wood sculpture which was originally

assembled and installed in a meadow near
Stene’s home in Rockbridge Baths. Debora
Rindge, director of the duPont Gallery, said
that the majority of works in the exhibit
“reflect the creative efforts of Larry Stene
since his arrival at Washington and Lee in
the fall of 1982. Earlier pieces have been in-
cluded to illustrate developments in style
and the use of subject matter in various
media.”’

At W&L, Stene teaches courses in
sculpture and printmaking. He has noted
that, unlike the independent artist who
works within an open time schedule, the
“artist-educator’”’ must create in “chopped
up” time segments.

According to Stene, such scarcity of
“pure time” causes him to work in a faster
manner that is more responsive to basic
materials. That, he adds, requires “the
courage to be imperfect’—a willingness to
experiment and “rely on one’s own innate
skills, judgment, and wit to produce work
under the constraints of the profession.”’

A native of Minnesota, Stene received
his bachelor’s degree from Moorhead State
College and his master’s from the Universi-
ty of Illinois.

He was assistant professor in the art
department of Bemidji State University in
Minnesota prior to joining the W&L faculty
as assistant professor of art in 1982. His
work is represented in the Cooley Collection
in Peoria, IIl., and in private collections in
Minnesota, Illinois, and Virginia.

 

Phi Eta Sigma elects 27

 

Twenty-seven sophomores at
Washington and Lee have been elected to
Phi Eta Sigma, the national honor society
which recognizes and encourages scholastic
achievement by freshmen.

To be eligible for Phi Eta Sigma
membership, a freshman must achieve at
least a 3.5 grade-point average.

This year’s inductees are:

Christen A. Alevizatos of Sparks, Md.;
Lawrence S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J.;
Edwin L. Barnes Jr. of Rock Hill, S.C.;
Hugh R. Black of Spartanburg, S.C.; Jean-
Paul Bouffard of Berkeley Heights, N.J.;
Joseph C. Campbell Jr. of Buena Vista;
Henry Exall IV of Dallas; Thomas J. Fellin
of Weston, Pa.; Edward M. George III of
Wheeling, W.Va.; David S. Harvey of
Georgetown, S.C.; Patrick L. Hayden of
North Canton, Ohio; Kenneth N. Jacoby of
South Bend, Ind.; John S. Janner of
Westfield, N.J.;

 

Red Green Shift 1984 polychromed wood by sculptor Larry Stene

David A. Kelly of Savannah, Ga.;
William H. King III of Luverne, Ala.; Ken-
neth L. Lindeman of Atlanta, Ga.; John D.
McCaffery of Monroe, Mich.; Ron L.
Moody of Brewton, Ala.; Nelson R. Patter-
son of Mohnton, Pa.; Bruin Richardson of
Port Huron, Mich.; Jeffrey A. Roper of
Terre Haute, Ind.; Gerald D. Shepherd of
Leland, Miss.; Karl B. Smith of Birm-
ingham, Ala.; Robert N. Strickland of San
Antonio, Tex.; Robert E. Treat of Man-
chester Center, Vt.; Clifford Wargelin
of Birmingham, Mich.; and, Cranston R.
Williams of Roanoke.

Trophy, based on a series of steeplechase
races, nine times and has finished second in
that competition five times.

The presentation was made to Rouse
during a polo game at Lincoln Mall in
Washington.

Two other W&L alumni are also on the
Wall of Fame. They are Edmond M.
Cameron, ’24, and Warren E. (Tex) Tilson,
26.

 

 

Alumnus honored
by Virginia Sports Hall

 

Randolph D. (Randy) Rouse, ’39, an
outstanding rider and trainer with the Na-
tional Steeplechase & Hunt Association,
was inducted to the Virginia Sports Hall of
Fame’s “Wall of Fame” during ceremonies
in October.

Wall of Fame inductees are elected each
year by the Honors Court Committee of the
Virginia Sports Hall of Fame. Persons nam-
ed to the Wall of Fame need not be born in
Virginia or have made their name in sports
in Virginia, but they must have made
significant contribution to sports over a
period of years, affecting the state of
Virginia.

Rouse won the Martini and Rossi Award
as a leading American point-to-point rider.
He has won the Seven Corners Challenge

Faculty members appointed

 

Washington and Lee announced the ap-
pointment of two new members of its
undergraduate faculty in January.

They are Robert E. Akins, associate pro-
fessor of engineering, and Roger A. Dean,
assistant professor of administration.

Akins is a native of Atlanta, Ga. He
received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from
Northwestern and his Ph.D. from Colorado
State.

He has worked on two separate projects
for the Sandia National Laboratories in
Albuquerque, N.M., most recently serving
as a member of the technical staff of the
laboratories’ Wind Energy Research Divi-
sion from June of 1981 until joining the
W&L faculty. He was an assistant professor
of engineering science and mechanics at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University from September 1978 to June
1981.

He is a member of the American Society
of Civil Engineers and the American Socie-

al

de Gazette

ty for Testing and Materials and serves on
committees for both of those organizations.
He is the author or co-author of numerous
articles and reports, most dealing with his
work on wind power.

Dean is a native of Australia and receiv-
ed his bachelor’s degree in commerce and
his M.B.A. degree from the University of
Queensland in Brisbane, Australia. He
received the Ph.D. degree from Michigan
State University where he served as an in-
structor in management from 1976 to 1980.

He was assistant professor in organiza-
tional behavior and administration at the
Edwin L. Cox School of Business at
Southern Methodist University from
September of 1980 until he joined the W&L
faculty. He received the Special Student
Senate Award at SMU for the 1980-81
academic year.

He is a member of the Academy of
Management and the American
Psychological Association and is currently
directing a research project to study the
career expectations and behavior of profes-
sional accountants. He is also the recipient
of a Dunhill Personnel System research
grant, awarded through the American
Society for Personnel Administration Foun-
dation, for his research proposal, “Reality
Shock: A Predictor of the Organizational
Commitment of Professionals.”’

 

Campus speakers

 

e Charmian Lacey, Associate of the
Royal Institute of British Architects,
presented a lecture entitled ““The Restora-
tion of the Royal Residences” in January
under the sponsorship of the department of
fine arts and the University Lecturers
Committee.

e Gail Berkeley, professor of English at
Reed College in Oregon, was featured as a
Howerton Lecturer in January. The title of
her lecture was ““Women as Models of
Religious Life in the Middle Ages.”’

¢ Nobel Laureate Czeslaw Milosz read
from his poetry as one of the Glasgow En-
dowment Committee programs in January.
Milosz won the 1980 Nobel Prize for
Literature.

e Dietrich Andre Loeber, professor of
law at the University of Kiel in West Ger-
many, lectured ‘‘On the Importance of
Understanding Soviet Law” at the law
school under the combined sponsorship of
the Tucker Law Forum and the Interna-
tional Law Society.

¢ Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist

28

Seymour M. Hersh told a W&L audience in
February that the American people have
given the President two divine rights, in-
cluding ‘‘the right to lie to us.”’

Hersh, whose book on Henry Kis-
singer’s role in the Nixon White House
recently won the National Book Critics Cir-
cle award for nonfiction, pointed to what he
called ‘‘a crazy contradiction in this coun-
try” when it comes to the integrity of public
officials.

Speaking as part of the University’s
Contact ’84 speaker symposium, Hersh said
the American public does not ‘‘hold the
people at the very top in this society to the
same standards (of honesty and integrity)
we hold our own family to.”’

e Time magazine columnist Hugh Sidey
said in March that the central consideration
of the 1984 presidential race will be the men
rather than the issues.

Sidey writes ‘“The Presidency,’’ a weekly

 

“ Sy

Time feature, and has written about the last
seven presidents during 27 years as a
Washington-based journalist. He spoke
under the combined sponsorship of the
Mock Convention and Contact ’84.

“IT can tell you what makes an adequate
president — courage, decency, intelligence,
knowledge, experience, those things,’’ said
Sidey. ‘But I can’t tell you finally what
raises one man above another at any given
time. It seems to me that we finally decide
on the basis of our feelings about each of
these men, (that) the most important con-
sideration is character.”’

While Sidey said Ronald Reagan is likely
to win election to a second term in
November, he added that results in the New
Hampshire primary had clouded the
Democratic situation to the point where “I
don’t have a clue .. . We don’t know what’s
on the people’s minds at this point. We’ve
been so mesmerized by the (television) an-
chor men and by our own polls. It’s become
an in-house thing. Politics has become an
industry and has lost touch with what it’s all
about.”’

 

Graduate named prominent
citizen in West German city

 

During the last 14 years Washington and
Lee University has established a strong af-
filiation with the West German city of
Bayreuth.

In that time about 150 W&L students
have spent the University’s six-week spring
term living and studying in Bayreuth under
a study abroad program.

Recently the relationship was taken a

 

Journalism Professor Clark Mollenhoff with Time columnist Hugh Sidey

step further when a Washington and Lee
graduate became Bayreuth’s most promi-
nent citizen by being named the first
American to reign over Bayreuth’s Fasching,
the German equivalent of Mardi Gras.

According to an Associated Press
dispatch, Army Ist Lt. Russell Rector, 23, of
Kansas City, Mo., and Colleen Dwyer, 21, of
Leesburg, Va., were crowned prince and
princess of the Fasching. Rector is a 1982
Washington and Lee graduate. Dwyer is a
student at Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege in Lynchburg.

Bayreuth Mayor Hans Walter Wild said
Rector and Dwyer were the first American
couple to hold the honor in West Germany
and were chosen because the town wanted
to thank the United States.

The Associated Press story quoted Wild
as saying: ‘We wanted to tell Americans
that the politics surrounding the missiles
was only one side of the relationship. The
human side hasn’t been injured by
politics.’’

Wild was referring to demonstrations in
West Germany last fall protesting NATO’s
deployment of 204 new U.S.-built nuclear
missiles.

Rector, who was a history major at
W&L, was commissioned a second lieute-
nant in the Army upon his graduation. He
was promoted a year ago and assigned to
Germany last March. Before leaving for
Germany, Rector returned to his alma mater
to attend the annual Fancy Dress Ball where
he renewed acquaintances with Dwyer.

When Rector was nominated for the
honor of being prince of the city’s Fasching,
he accepted on the condition that Dwyer be
his princess. Dwyer was visiting Bayreuth
for the Christmas holidays and postponed
her return to Randolph-Macon to become
the Fasching princess.

As prince and princess of the festival,
Rector and Dwyer were guests of honor at
some 45 parties, costume balls, and celebra-
tions before the revelry ended on Ash
Wednesday.

According to Rector’s mother, Mrs.
John T. Rector of Kansas City, the couple
not only received the keys to the city but
were driven to and from the festivities with
an entourage including their personal
translators.

“Russell told us that it is a remarkable
experience,’’ Mrs. Rector said. “‘He con-
sidered this a very positive step in German-
American relations and felt honored to be a
kind of goodwill ambassador.’’

Rector’s W&L background may have
had nothing to do with his selection. On the

other hand Washington and Lee is one
American college that residents of Bayreuth
would recognize.

According to W&L German professor
David B. Dickens, who has accompanied
several groups of W&L students to Bayreuth
as part of the University’s spring term
abroad program, Washington and Lee
souvenirs are much in evidence in the city.

“Photographs of W&L and beer mugs
bearing the University’s coat of arms can be
found not only in various University of
Bayreuth rooms and facilities, but also in
the glass display case in the Bayreuth City
Hall where gifts to the city are displayed,”’
Dickens said.

When they study in Bayreuth the W&L
students live with German families, some of
whom have sponsored students continuous-
ly since 1971. Two years ago the Washington
and Lee Glee Club presented a concert
before a standing-room crowd in Bayreuth.

This April W&L German professor Kirk
Follo will take another group of students to
Bayreuth. And this time they’ll have even
stronger ties to the city. After all, they can
say they knew the prince of Bayreuth’s
Fasching when he was just another W&L
student.

 

Awards, honors

 

e Jack L. O’Brien, a Washington and
Lee senior from Boca Raton, Fla., is the
1984 winner of the annual Edward L. Pin-
ney Prize at the University.

The prize was awarded to O’Brien by a
vote of the University Council, an organiza-
tion composed of students, faculty, and ad-
ministration at Washington and Lee.

Awarded for the first time in 1982, the
Pinney Prize was established by the
Washington and Lee faculty in memory of
the late Edward Lee Pinney, who was pro-
fessor of politics at W&L from 1963 until
his death in 1980. The Pinney Prize
recognizes extraordinary commitment both
to personal scholarship and to the nurturing
of intellectual life at Washington and Lee.

O’Brien is an English major at
Washington and Lee where he has been
elected to Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and Who’s Who. He is a Robert E.
Lee Scholar and was co-author with W&L
physics professor Ronald Reese of a
scholarly article in the Griffith Observer.

A graduate of Pine Crest School, he is
the son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. O’Brien
of Boca Raton.

¢ John-Paul Bouffard of Berkeley

Heights, N.J., and Clifford F. Wargelin of
Birmingham, Mich., were named co-
recipients of the Phi Beta Kappa
Sophomore Award.

The award recognizes superlative
scholastic achievement among
undergraduates in their first two years at
Washington and Lee. It is made annually by
the Gamma of Virginia Chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa to the sophomore who has attained
the highest cumulative scholastic average
through the end of the fall term of his se-
cond year at W&L.

Bouffard is a business administration
major. He has been a consistent honor roll
student and is a member of the University
Federation and the Glee Club. A graduate
of Governor Livingston Regional High
School, he is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Clarke
B. Johnson of Berkeley Heights, N.J.

Wargelin is majoring in history. He isa
consistent honor roll student and a member
of the Glee Club. He is a graduate of An-
dover High School in Bloomfield Hills,
Mich., and is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John
H. Wargelin of Birmingham, Mich.

e Washington and Lee was named the
third best delegation to the Princeton
Model United Nations Conference in
Princeton, N.J., in February.

Seven W&L students participated in the
event in which Washington and Lee was
designated as the United States delegation.

W&L junior Jon Zagrodzky of
Houston, was named the best delegate to
the Western Summit while two W&L par-
ticipants, senior Lawton Jackson of Coral
Gables and senior Markham Pyle of
Crosby, Tex., were both named the second
best delegates to their respective commit-
tees. Other Washington and Lee students
who composed the delegation were senior
Robert Cross of Richmond, sophomore
Gerald Shepard of Leland, Miss.,
sophomore Brad Stengel of Darnestown,
Md., freshman Michael Wacht of Social
Circle, Ga., and freshman Gavin Wilkinson
of Sartell, Minn.

 

Faculty activities

 

e An article by journalism professor
Hampden H. Smith III has been publish-
ed in the Winter 1984 edition of Jour-
nalism Educator, a quarterly publication
of the Association for Education in Jour-
nalism and Mass Communication.

The article, ‘‘An educator’s perspec-
tive,’’ was based on a presentation Smith
made during the 1983 convention of the

29

dé Gazette

Association for Education in Journalism
and Mass Communication at Oregon
State University.

In his article, Smith examines the pro-
cess by which journalism and mass com-
munication programs are accredited and
makes suggestions for the improvement of
that process.

e Minor L. Rogers, associate professor
of religion, was one of 11 scholars invited
to present papers at a seminar entitled
“Acts of Thanksgiving and the Virtue of
Gratitude in Hinduism, Buddhism, and
Islam.”’

The seminar was held in Dallas, Texas,
and was sponsored jointly by the Center
for World Thanksgiving and Harvard
University’s Center for the Study of
World Religions.

It was held at Dallas’ Thanks-Giving
Square, a facility that was created by the
private, interfaith Thanks-Giving Square
Foundation. Washington and Lee Trustee
Emeritus John M. Stemmons was one of
the organizers of the Thanks-Giving
Square Foundation.

Rogers’ paper was one of five that
treated Buddhist expressions of thanksgiv-
ing. In his paper, he discussed gratitude
in the Japanese Pure Land tradition,
which is his field of specialization.
Scholars representing Harvard, Southern
Methodist, Smith College, and the univer-
sities of Pennsylvania, Florida, and
Virginia also participated in the seminar.

Rogers was recently invited to join the
editorial board of Shin Buddhist Studies,
a new journal of the International
Association of Shin Buddhist Studies.
The journal will be published in Kyoto,
Japan.

e Louis W. Hodges, director of the
University’s program in applied ethics,
“Society and the Professions,’’ is the
moderator for a series of panel discus-
sions about privacy and confidentiality
for WVPT-TV, the public television station
in Harrisonburg, Va.

Produced by WVPT and partially
funded by the Virginia Foundation for
the Humanities and Public Policy, the
series deals with privacy as it relates to
the media, privacy in the work place, con-
fidentiality in the family setting, and con-
fidentiality between professional and
client.

e Roger A. Jeans, associate professor
of history, delivered a paper at the 23rd
annual meeting of the Southeast Con-
ference Association for Asian Studies at
Emory University in Atlanta.

30

Professor Charles W. Turner

 

 

Jeans’ paper was entitled “Conflict
between Two Cultures: Some American
and Japanese Views of the Pacific War,
1941-1945” and was presented as part of a
session on East Asia in the print media.

Jeans, who is the director of
Washington and Lee’s East Asian Studies
Program, has been selected as the pro-
gram chairman for the 24th meeting of
the Southeast Conference of the Associa-
tion for Asian Studies, which will be held
at Duke University in January 1985.

¢ Gerard Maurice Doyon, professor of
art history and chairman of the Universi-
ty’s art division, has been presented the
United Daughters of the Confederacy Jef-
ferson Davis Medal.

Doyon received the award during
ceremonies held in January at the United
States Capitol Building in Washington.
The event was sponsored by the District
of Columbia Division of the United
Daughters of the Confederacy.

The Jefferson Davis Medal is for ‘“‘ex-
cellence in preserving the history of the
South.”’

Doyon was nominated to receive the

 

award for “outstanding contributions to
the preservation of Southern art.’’ He
was cited for his role in organizing a
special exhibition in connection with last
year’s 100th anniversary of the unveiling
of Edward Virginius Valentine’s famous
Recumbent Statue of Robert E. Lee in
Lee Chapel.

e Thomas L. Shaffer, director of the
Frances Lewis Law Center, made one of
the major presentations at a plenary ses-
sion of the Association of American Law
Schools’ annual meeting in San Francisco
in January.

Shaffer was one of three speakers for
a session on ethics in legal education. His
paper was entitled ‘‘Moral Implications
and Effects of Legal Education.’’

In February Shaffer presented the
Willis Cunningham Memorial Lecture at
Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario,
Canada. His lecture was “The Return of
the Gentleman to Professional Ethics.’’

¢ Charles W. Turner, professor
emeritus of history, has published a col-
lection of the letters of former W&L pro-
fessor James J. White.

Entitled Old Zeus (Life and Letters of
Professor James J. White), the volume is
composed of letters that trace the story of
White both as a professor at Washington
College and as a Captain of the Liberty
Hall Volunteers in the Civil War.

White was head of the Greek and
Latin department at Washington and Lee
from 1852 to 1893. His letters of the
1850s provide an interesting view of the
social and political life of the area.

According to Turner, who retired from
teaching in 1982, White was instrumental
in securing the services of General Robert
E. Lee to serve as post-war president of
Washington College. When Lee died in
1870, White was made acting president.

e An article by Halford Ryan,
associate professor of public speaking,
has been published in Southern Speech
Journal, one of the the regional journals
under the general auspices of the Speech
Communication Association.

The essay is entitled “Baldwin vs. Ed-
ward VIII: A Case Study in Kategoria
and Apologia.’’ In the article, Ryan ex-
amines the accusatory speeches of Prime
Minister Stanley Baldwin in relationship
to King Edward’s apology in his famous
“Farewell Address” in the 1936 abdication
crisis.

The essay represents an application of
Ryan’s earlier article on speeches of ac-
cusation and defense. The work on

 

 

 

 

 

 

Baldwin and Edward was part of Ryan’s
project at a National Endowment for the
Humanities Summer Seminar at Ohio
State University in 1981.

¢ The humor of Kurt Kusenberg, a
German short story writer who died in
1983, is the subject of an article publish-
ed recently by David B. Dickens, associate
professor of German.

Entitled “Kurt Kusenberg: How Amaz-
ing It Is to Be Happy,’’ Dicken’s article
appears in a special issue of Philological
Papers, a journal devoted to humor in
modern literature and published by West
Virginia University. The article was one
of 15 accepted for publication from
among 60 that were submitted.

The article is the first critical study of
Kusenberg to be published in the United
States and is part of Dicken’s effort to
make the German writer and his work
better known in this country.

e Psychology professor David G.
Elmes has been named consulting editor
of the Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and
Cognition. A publication of the American
Psychological Association, the journal is
the major vehicle for publication within
experimental psychology.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1967, Elmes has been con-
ducting ongoing research into human
memory and recently concluded a paper
that dealt with the way in which an in-
dividual’s mood can affect memory.

e Carl Kaiser, assistant professor of
economics, delivered a paper at the
Eastern Economic Association meeting in
March. The paper was entitled “The Tax-
able Payroll for Unemployment Insurance:
An Empirical Analysis of South Carolina
Manufacturing Firms.’’ Kaiser was also
chairperson for a session of the con-
ference entitled “Economics of
Unemployment.”’

e J. Taylor Sanders, professor of
history, was the 1983 Cincinnati Lecturer
at Virginia Military Institute. Sanders
presented the featured lecture for the pro-
gram, which is sponsored by The Society
of the Cincinnati in the State of Virginia.
The title of Sanders’ lecture was ‘‘The
Lexington Connection: Cincinnatus, the
Society of the Cincinnati, and the
Citizen-Soldier Ideal.”’

e Washington and Lee was well
represented at the 96th annual meeting of
the Geological Survey of America this
past fall in Indianapolis. Three members
of W&L’s geology department, Sam

 

Pianist Robert Allen Vienneau and baritone
Powell Murry Leitch Il prepare for recital.

Kozak, Fred Schwab, and Edgar Spencer,
attended the meeting along with six
senior geology majors: Tim White, Jeff
Gee, Craig Cannon, Beau Hodge, Don
Richardson, and David Kerr.

Also attending the meeting were
former graduates: Allen Curran, ’62, now
a professor of geology at Smith College;
Charles Haley, ’79, a doctorate candidate
at Johns Hopkins University; Allen
Horowitz, ’52, professor of geology at the
University of Indiana; Jim Head, ’64,
professor of geology at Brown University;
Bob Root, ’70, a doctoral candidate at
Penn State; Sherwood W. Wise Jr., 63,
professor at Florida State University;
Madison Woodward, ’81, recent graduate
of the University of Texas; and, Steve
Stahl, ’79, who is receiving his doctorate
from Northwestern this spring.

The group gave papers on such
diverse subjects as depositional en-
vironments in the Gulf of Mexico by
Madison Woodward, a report on the
Deep Sea Drilling Project by Woody
Wise, an analysis of volcanic eruptions on
other planets by Jim Head, a study of the
sedimentation in Montana by Chris
Haley, an analysis of late Precambrian
sediments in eastern United States by
Fred Schwab, and a report on structual
features of the James River Gap.

e Several Washington and Lee pro-
fessors and one W&L student participated
in a seminar on “The Historian and the
Computer”’ at Virginia Military Institute.
History professors Taylor Sanders and
Holt Merchant, administration professor

 

Philip Cline, archaeology professor John
McDaniel, and reference and public ser-
vice librarian Peggy Hays gave papers at
the seminar along with W&L
undergraduate James M. Smith, ’84.

 

In the arts

 

e Two Washington and Lee students—
pianist Robert Allen Vienneau, ’87, of
Lasalle, Quebec, Canada, and baritone
Powell Murry Leitch III, ’84, of Covington,
Va.—presented a recital in Lee Chapel in
January.

e An exhibition of paintings by
Roanoke artist Ann Glover was on display
in duPont Gallery during February. A
Roanoke native and a graduate of Mary
Baldwin College, Glover has taught paint-
ing at the Roanoke Museum of Fine Arts
and Virginia Western Community College.
She has served as one of the Virginia
Museum’s traveling artist program
instructors.

e Southern Comfort performed selec-
tions from its Greenbrier program ina
special concert in duPont Auditorium in
January. The 12-member musical organiza-
tion was featured as part of the Greenbrier
resort’s Christmas celebration for the third
time in the past three years.

¢ The W&L Glee Club presented con-
certs with the Lexington High School Choir
and the Wabash College Glee Club during
the winter semester.

e The Cottage: A Work in Progress, a
one-act play written by W&L senior Ted
Petrides, was presented in the Boiler Room
Theatre in February while the University
Theatre also produced two one-act plays—
Bertolt Brecht’s The Informer and Woody
Allen’s Death Knocks—in the Troubadour
Theatre.

e¢ The Annapolis Brass Quintet,
America’s first full-time performing brass
ensemble, appeared in concert in February
as part of the Washington and Lee Concert
Guild season.

e The Washington and Lee Brass and
Percussion Ensemble had another suc-
cessful winter tour during the University’s
Washington Holiday. The 25-member
Ensemble’s itinerary included performances
at Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., at
the Mathis City Auditorium in Valdosta,
Ga., as part of that city’s Community Con-
cert Series, at a Miami Beach hotel, on
board the cruise ship U.S.S. Emerald Sea,
and in Nassau.

 

 

 

 

 

31

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

The 77th Fancy Dress Ball , held don)

7

2 in Dicasas ray er, att ttracted hundt

ty’st

  

| TieBinel Ride Alumni Ch
cludes

the asian a

 
 

:
:

Lisa Chandler, date of f John Watlington, °79
precedes Waugh Crigler, ’70, upon arrival.

 

 

 

   

 

 

Vaugh Crigler, °70; Lecky Stone, ’76,
the Alumni House before the dance.

 

 

   
   
  
       
    
 
   

2 Wilker. son, °69; Chris Johnson, ’80, and his
ne Winter, wife of Dan Winter, ’69; and Ann

 

and Richard

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eee ic

¢

Lisa Chandler and John Watlington, ’79; Dean Bob Baskin, ’78, and his date balance supper

Finney, *45, and Elaine Finney dine at the plates on their laps at the Alumni House.
Alumni House.

Elaine and Dean Finney, °45, lead the group past
Washington Hall on the walk along the Colon-
nade en route to the dance.

~  d

Blue Ridge chapter members whooping it up at the ball are Ann and Waugh Crigler, ’70; Dukie

Wilkerson; Peggy and John Zunka, ’74L; Martha and George Craddock, ’64. Bob Baskin, °78, and his date dance in the big

ballroom.

 

SE

Swinging and swaying to the music of Lester Lanin Jugglers provided entertainment on the
mezzanine.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe :
i i
Py
-
Se
eo
we
pe
aye
Satie
ee
oe
ty c
ee
-
soo
:
oe
. " - 3 = oe - = sees ie -

 

forces

after its

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Mark Mandel

Sports Information Director

Tim Rock Concludes Successful Career

Generals’ Winter Sports Teams Compile Winning Records

It takes a special breed of person to be a
successful swimmer. Natural talent and
physical endurance are musts. But, more
important, the individual must have the
will, the inner strength, to deal with the
demands that are unique to the sport of
swimming.

Washington and Lee senior Tim Rock
(Houston) is a special breed of person. He is
one of five student-swimmers who qualified
to represent W&L at the NCAA Division III
National Championships at Emory Univer-
sity in mid-March.

Rock and his teammates worked toward
the NCAAs since August, putting in five-
mile (the equivalent of 20 miles of running)
workouts seven days a week in an attempt to
shave a few tenths of a second from their
times. Quite often during the season the
General swimmers were churning through
the water of Twombly Pool at 6:30 a.m.,
long before many of their classmates were
even out of bed. That early-morning session
was in addition to the regular afternoon
practice.

“In swimming, every day is crucial to
your performance,’’ says Rock. ‘“‘To be suc-
cessful, you cannot let up because the dif-
ference between winning and losing is
usually measured in tenths of a second.”’

Rock, a biology major who has earned
All-America status in both swimming and
water polo at W&L, motivates himself by
setting personal goals. “It is not easy to be
mentally ready to practice hard every day
during the long season. But I know what it
is like to swim in the nationals and it is
worth the effort to qualify for the
championships.’’

Rock reached his goal this year by quali-
fying for the 1650-yard freestyle in the na-
tional meet. That is the same event in which
he became an All-America as a freshman
when he finished fifth in the NCAAs.

“Qualifying was a real challenge
because it took a long time and a lot of hard
workouts to achieve. I have a personal
satisfaction in what I’ve accomplished.
Most people, other than swimmers, may not
be able to understand it,’’ he said.

Joining Rock at the championships were
senior Gary Meyer (Roanoke, Va.); juniors
Bobby Pearson (Louisville, Ky.) and Taber
Smith (Darien, Conn.); sophomore Tim

 

 

Tim Rock—part of a rare breed

Stanford (Miami, Fla.); and freshman Jay
ReVille (Raleigh, N.C.).

The Generals finished the dual-meet
season with a 6-4 record and a No. 7 na-
tional ranking. W&L was labeled a possible
“surprise team” that could offer stiff com-
petition to the midwestern and California
schools that usually dominate the NCAAs.

“Whatever happens at the champion-
ships, I will be happy with our season,’’
said W&L aquatics coach Page Remillard.
“‘But if we swim really well, we could be in
the top ten.”’

The swimmers were not the only W&L
athletes who had a successful winter. The

 

Generals were also winners on the basket-
ball court, the wrestling mat, and the run-
ning track.

In basketball, head coach Verne Can-
field led his troops to a 14-12 record, the
17th winning season in his 20 years at the
University. The Generals lost to Lynchburg
in the quarterfinals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament but still
posted some impressive statistics.

Led by senior John Lee Graves (Virginia
Beach, Va.), W&L was nationally ranked in
team defense and free throw percentage and
led the ODAC in both of those categories
and in field goal percentage. Graves, who
was named to All-ODAC and All-South
Atlantic teams, finished his career with
1,441 points, placing him seventh on W&L’s
all-time scoring list.

The W&L wrestlers won 12 of 14
matches and virtually overwhelmed their
opponents in winning by an average margin
of more than 21 points per match. Junior
Jeff Dixon (Duncan, Okla.) was undefeated
in dual-meet action with a 14-0 record at the
190-pound weight class. Senior Tim Valliere
(Uncasville, Conn.) compiled a 17-2 record
at 167 pounds. In all, six W&L wrestlers (of
those with 15 or more decisions) had win-
ning records.

The 12-2 record represents head coach
Gary Franke’s third successive winning year
and his eighth in 11 years at W&L. He has
now compiled more victories (85) than any
other wrestling coach in W&L history.

The W&L indoor track team—with

35

Winter Sports

John Lee Graves gets position for a rebound.

special emphasis on the word “‘team’—won
its first ODAC championship, despite the
fact that the Generals finished first in only
one event. The key to the victory was team
strength: W&L scored points in every event
and had five second-place finishes and four
third-place finishes.

W&Ls lone winner was its 3,200-meter
relay, composed of sophomore Ron Moody
(Brewton, Ala.), senior Paul Chapman
(Short Hills, N.J.), sophomore Conrad
Boyle (Cockeysville, Md.), and junior Mark
Pembroke (Milwaukee, Wis.).

“Tt was areal team victory,’’ said W&L
coach Norris Aldridge, selected as ODAC
Coach-of-the-Year. “Our depth and our at-
titude were the reasons we won. We had
people do well in every event and a lot of
them had personal best results.”’

 

 

West Coast alumni
welcome W&L basketball team

 

Washington and Lee’s basketball team
made a two-game trip to the West Coast
just before Christmas, playing in San Mateo
(The College of Notre Dame) and Turlock
(Stanislaus State).

While criss-crossing the country may be
old hat for many big-time basketball pro-

36 :

grams, the California excursion was a first
for W&L. And chances are most of those
big-time programs are not greeted as en-
thusiastically on their travels as the
Generals were greeted by W&L alumni in
the San Francisco area.

Nat Baker, ’67, arranged a reception and
potluck supper for the W&L players and
coaches at his home in San Francisco.

Twenty W&L alumni laced up their sneakers for old time Ss sake in the annual Alumni Basketball Game.

‘““We were certainly delighted to be made
so welcome by our alumni in the San Fran-
cisco area,’’ said head coach Verne Can-
field. “‘It made the players’ experience all
the more valuable.’’

Once on the basketball court, the
Generals split their two games, defeating
The College of Notre Dame and losing to
Stanislaus State.

 

 

Front row (from left), R. J. Scaggs, Bob Forlenza, Gil Fitzhugh, Doug Cleland, Kim Sims, Mike Wenke,
George Spears, and Steve Hand. Center, Mac Rein. Back row (from left), Dave Leunig, Bruce Williams,
Rob Smitherman, Bob Flint, Brian Hanson, Jeff Baum, Don Berlin, Frank Eppes, John Podgajny, Greg
Croghan, Tracey Hodge, Burr Datz, and Jay Fechtel. The alumni game was played prior to the Generals’

ODAC contest with Lynchburg College.

Chapter News

CALIFORNIA UNITY! Presidents of all four alumni chapters on the West Coast met at the Balboa Bay Club in Newport Beach to welcome President

 

Wilson to the Orange County chapter meeting. They are (left to right) Paul Brower, ’68, (Orange County); David McLean, ’78, (Los Angeles); President
Wilson, John Klinedinst, ’71, °78L, (San Diego); and Nat Baker, ’67, (San Francisco).

SAN FRANCISCO. Alumni of the Bay Area gathered on
February 15 for a reception and dinner in honor of President
Wilson in the Bohemian Club’s Red Room. University Trustee
Jerry South, ’54, planned the occasion along with Nat Baker, ’67,
chapter president. Baker, recognized Farris Hotchkiss, director of
University relations and development, and Alumni Secretary Dick
Sessoms before introducing President Wilson, who spoke at
length about the University’s remarkable past and of its challeng-
ing future.

LOS ANGELES. The 54th floor executive dining room of the new
Crocker National Bank was the setting for President Wilson’s
February 16 visit with Los Angeles alumni. Approximately 70
alumni attended the meeting. Arrangements were made by ex-
ecutive vice president and W&L Alumni Board member, Owen
Harper, 59. Harper welcomed the group by tracing recent alumni
activity in Los Angeles and expressed confidence in the reforma-
tion of the chapter under the leadership of David McLean, ’78.
Prior to his introduction of President Wilson, McLean announced
tentative plans for a summer meeting and asked chapter members
to react to a forthcoming questionnaire to assist in planning alum-
ni events.

SAN DIEGO. President Wilson, Farris Hotchkiss and Dick
Sessoms joined 48 members of the chapter on February 17 for an
enjoyable evening in the Mediterranean-California style of the La

Valencia Hotel in La Jolla. Chapter President John Klinedinst,

’71, ’78L, and his wife, Cindy, presided over the occasion which
featured President Wilson’s wide-ranging remarks. In December,
Rick Meiser, 68, and his wife, Carol, were hosts for a reception for
the chapter and current students in honor of the W&L swim team
which spent the Christmas holidays in the area for pre-season
training.

ORANGE COUNTY. President Wilson concluded his visits to
four California chapters with a relaxed Sunday brunch for ap-
proximately 40 alumni and parents at the Balboa Bay Club at
Newport Beach in Orange County. Chapter President Paul
Brower, ’68, opened the meeting by commenting on the special at-
tendance of all four California alumni chapter presidents, in-
cluding Nat Baker, ’67, of San Francisco, David McLean, ’78, of
Los Angeles, and John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, of San Diego. Baker
and Klinedinst attended three of the four California meetings and
McLean two.

DENVER. Washington’s Birthday was celebrated by 18 chapter
alumni who lunched together on February 20 at the Wellshire Inn.
Charlie Pride, ’72, chapter president, congratulated his new
chapter on the fine attendance at the group’s first meeting since its
formation last July. Plans were tentatively announced to stage the
next meeting this summer in honor of incoming freshmen and
current Colorado students and their parents. The principal

aT

Chapter News

business was an update by Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of
University relations and development, on the coeducation issue.
Dick Sessoms, director of Alumni Programs, concluded the
meeting with a report on a variety of activities of interest to
alumni.

PHILADELPHIA. On February 22, the annual alumni luncheon
was held at the Racquet Club. Dean of Students Lewis G. John,
58, was the featured speaker. He discussed the issue of coeduca-
tion from his perspective as an alumnus, a professor and an ad-
ministrator. Marty Bowers, ’80, chapter president, presided over
the luncheon and introduced distinguished alumni, James M.
Ballengee, ’48L, rector of the Board of Trustees; Edwin J. Foltz,
*A0L, former president of the Alumni Board of Directors; and B.
Christopher Lee, ’71, AAP chairman for Philadelphia. Host Wick
Hollingshead, ’61, was instrumental in arranging the luncheon.

ROANOKE. Eighty-five alumni were joined by 65 members of the
local Hollins Alumnae Triangle Club on February 29 for a “leap
year” cocktail party at Roanoke’s exciting new downtown arts
development, Center in the Square. Chapter President Arnold
Masinter, 62, who conceived the idea, received outstanding ar-
rangement support from Scott Farrar, ’76, and from Elise Burks
Hammond, president of the Hollins club. Honored guests includ-
ed Dr. Paula P. Brownlee, the new Hollins College president, and
Anna Logan Lawson, president of the Hollins Alumnae Associa-
tion. Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms and a 14-member delegation
from Lexington attended the event.

OREGON. The newest of W&L’s 77 alumni chapters jumped into
the new year with an organizational meeting on January 7 at the
Benson Hotel in Portland. Tudor Hall, ’60, was elected chapter
president. Those attending included Jane Hall, Anne and Palmer
Pardington, 61, Cotton and Joe Moffatt, ’50, Jane and Schuyler
Lininger, ’71, Trish Brown, ’81L, and Cleve Abbe, ’81L, and Robin
and Al Corwin, ’62. Student recruitment is being handled by AAP
chairman Pardington who, along with Hall, sent more than 90 let-
ters to prospects.

PALMETTO. The chapter entertained President Wilson at a
reception and dinner on January 10 at the Forest Lake Club.
Former presidents of the chapter, John Folsom, ’73, and Hagood
Ellison, ’72, arranged the meeting, which drew more than 100
alumni, parents, and guests. After cocktails and dinner, Chapter
President Jay Nexsen, ’76, introduced Dr. Wilson who spoke on
the strengths of Washington and Lee as well as the problems that
face the University in the decade ahead. Dick Sessoms and Buddy
Atkins, ’68, represented the alumni office at the meeting.

CHARLOTTE. On January 11, Washington and Lee alumni and
parents held a reception and dinner for Dr. Wilson at the
Charlotte City Club. Chapter President Bill Sturges, ’75, arranged
the meeting and served as master of ceremonies. Elections were
held following the dinner and those elected by acclamation to
serve with Sturges were Scott Stevenson, ’76, vice president, and
Will Ogburn, ’76, treasurer. The alumni admissions represen-
tative, Doug Faris, ’76, made a report and distributed information
on prospects to the gathering. Sturges then introduced Dr.
Wilson, whose remarks about W&L were well received.

38

SAN FRANCISCO—Among those gathered at the Bohemian Club’s Red

 

SAN FRANCISCO—Trustee Jerry South, ’54, (left) and George Mesley
(Australian friend of W&L and former development associate) talk during
February meeting.

‘i

Room were Mary Green, Fred Casto, ’65L, Tom Green, 64, and Manya
Casto.

=

SAN FRANCISCO—Chapter President Nat Baker, ’67, welcomes Linda
Moselle, sister of Bob Moselle, ’69, (center) to the meeting.

 

President Wilson and Kathy Harper.

 

WOE
LOS ANGELES—Enjoying the festivities were (left to right) Jack Reeves, SAN DIEGO—Director of University Relations and Development Farris

‘77, Stuart Miller, 82, La Gena Lookabill, Kevin McFadden, ’79, Paul Hotchkiss, ’58, greets Katy and Will Magruder, ’28.
Hendry, ’80, Mike Mahoney, ’83, and John McIntyre, ’82.

 

LOS ANGELES—Kim and Ken Ruscio, ’76, listen intently to Walt SAN DIEGO— Others attending were Carol and Rick Meiser, ’68, and
Kingsbery, °48. Cindy and John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L.

 

SAN DIEGO—Among those welcoming President Wilson to the West ORANGE COUNT Y—California sunshine beamed down on those at-
Coast were Melissa Elliott, Max Elliott, 60, and John Steinhauer, ’73. tending the Sunday brunch including John Lane, ’50L, Jayne Lane, Earle
Richmond, ’31L, and Edna Richmond.

 

SAN DIEGO—Gathered at the La Valencia Hotel in La Jolla were (left to ORANGE COUNT Y—At the Balboa Bay Club were Tommy Tift, ’78,
right) Nancy and Horace Dietrich, ’52, Peter Jacobs, ’56, and wife, Michele Bats, and Paul Hendry, ’80.
Marion.

39

Chapter News

CHICAGO. Chapter President Sandy Walton, ’61, ’65L, now a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors, stepped down from his
local office at a “‘re-organizational” meeting of area alumni on
January 19 at the Chicago Bar Building. Timothy F. Haley, ’73,
was elected to succeed Walton.

LOUISVILLE. On January 19, approximately 60 members of the
chapter gathered at the Louisville Country Club for the chapter’s
first Robert E. Lee birthday celebration. President Harry Wall,
°75, led a discussion about possible mid-week gatherings to keep
alumni bonds close in Louisville.

PARIS. As the Lee’s Birthday/Founders’ Day Convocation was
beginning in Lexington, a group of alumni and friends of the
University met in Paris to commemorate the event. Host for the
evening was Dr. Edward B. Hamer, Professor of Romance
Languages, who was in France this winter to conduct research for
a forthcoming book on the deceptive similarities of French and
English. Also on hand to greet guests were Van H. Pate, ’71,
Associate Director of Admissions, and Francois Blot and his
mother, Lelette Blot, longtime associates of the French depart-
ment at W&L. Pate was in France as part of a four-country Euro-
pean swing to visit secondary schools on behalf of the admissions
office. Several alumni reported that the party was their first of-
ficial contact with the University since graduation, and all ex-
pressed an interest in getting together again.

ATLANTA. The chapter held its annual Robert E. Lee birthday
party on January 20 at the home of Eileen and Bo DuBose, ’62,
chapter president. More than 250 members of the W&L Atlanta
family, including a range of alumni from the 1920’s through 1983,
attended the event.

SHENANDOAH. President and Mrs. Wilson were guests of the
chapter at a dinner meeting January 20 at the historic Wayside
Inn, an 18th century stagecoach stop near Winchester. Chapter
President Bill Pifer, ’76, presided over the dinner along with fellow
officers Jim Eastham, ’74, Jay Wetsel, ’70, and Tom Holden, ’67.
President Wilson spoke on the three main pillars—faculty,
students, and alumni—which uphold W&L’s reputation. Alumni
Board member Charlie Beall, ’56, of Martinsburg, W.Va., and
Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms also attended the event.

DALLAS/FT. WORTH. Washington and Lee alumni joined
alumni of the University of Virginia, Virginia Tech, Sweet Briar,
William and Mary, etc., for an Old Dominion Super Bow] Party
on January 22 at Andrew’s Restaurant in Dallas. The 150 par-
ticipants mixed reminiscing with cheering for their favorite team,
even though the hometown favorite Dallas Cowboys were not in-
volved. “‘We didn’t plan it that way,’’ noted Harvey Allen, ’61.

LONDON. Stocks Town Club in Kings Road was the scene of a
January 25 meeting sponsored by the Alumni Association. Lon-
don alumni Jim Page, ’57, Jamie Page, ’78, and Parke Bradley,
°78, met for lunch with Van Pate of the admissions office and
guests David Cleggett and David Lea, friends of the University.
Pate answered questions concerning current issues, and the group
discussed future events to involve the approximately 20 W&L
graduates and associates living in the area.

40

 

ROANOKE—Arnold Masinter, 62, and Anna Logan Lawson greet W&L
and Hollins alumni at the Center in the Square.

ROA NOKE—Attending the Leap Year cocktail party were Mrs. Ju, wife of
WE&L professor and artist-in-residence I-Hsiung Ju, W&L drama professor
Al Gordon, W&L art professor Larry Stene, Hollins Triangle Club presi-
dent Elise Burks Hammond, and Mrs. Stene.

PHILADELPHIA—Among the alumni who attended the annual lun-
cheon were Anthony Gerike, ’55, Ed Cohen, ’55, Ed Foltz, *40L, William
Burton, ’48, Sam Dubois, ’53, and Roland Davies, ’55.

PALMETTO—Among those gathered at the Forest Lake Club were
Hagood Ellison, *72, Sis Ellison, Tuck Lafitte, ’79, Claude Walker, ’71, and
JoAnn Walker.

 

 

PALMETTO—Attending the dinner meeting were (left to right) John CHA RLOTTE—Chapter President Bill Sturges, ’76, (left) and Dick
Hamilton, ’80, Jack Wells, 82, Bobby Pearce, ’80, Millice Rogers, and Sessoms look over the list of attendees for the chapter’s dinner in honor of
Mason Ellerbe, ’83. President Wilson.

 

     

| _ — a : : OF 7 |
PALMETTO—Dick Sessoms (left) executive secretary of the Alumni PARIS—Those gathering in France to commemorate Lee’s birthday were
Association chats with Norris Lightsey, ’24, and Spruce McCain, father of Bruce S. Ritz, ’*75, David D. Manson, ’72, Thomas P. Radigan, ’75, John

Rick McCain, ’74. Williams, and Francois Blot.

=

CHA RLOTTE—Shown at the Charlotte City Club are Averill Harkey, ’74, SHENANDOAH—Mrs. Anne Wilson (center) was warmly welcomed by
Alan Lee, 69, Missy Lee, and Joe Dozier, ’70. Mrs. Dot Pifer and Alumni Board member Charlie Beall, ’56, of Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va.

 

  

 

WN SE a

CHARLOTTE—At the reception were (left to right) George Berry, ’79, CLEVELAND—Members of the chapter gathered at the Union Club for
Stevie McCarthy, and Tom Hunter, ’77, ’83. their annual Christmas luncheon.

 

4]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ address. Please include your name,
if known, for the delivery 1c

 

 

 

tion.

 

 

 

Saint Michaels at the North Gate. This i is the same
pulpit from which the Rev. John Wesley preached in

 

A. ERSKINE SPROUL has retired from medical prac-

 

 

 

 

 

/

 

   

C. H. Chapman Jr., ’41 R. E. Bradford, ’54

tice. He is the former consulting pathologist for
Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington and the
associate pathologist for King’s Daughters’ Hospital
in Staunton. He also was a clinical professor of
pathology at the University of Virginia since 1970.

1938

MARRIAGE: Robert M. Wuite II and Peggy Lee
Crolius on Dec. 14, 1983, in Washington. White is
editor and publisher of The Mexico (Mo.) Evening
Ledger.

GEORGE Bauer JR., though retired from Armco Inc,
remains busy and has started the firm of Bauer Mini-
Mill Technology, which serves as a consultant to the
steel industry. His work involves a lot of travel, par-
ticularly overseas.

1939

JUDGE WaRREN H. Epwarps has been reappointed
by the Chief Justice of the Florida Supreme Court
to serve another year as a circuit judge.

ROBERT W. HILTON JR. is associated with the firm of
Shepard, Hilton, Clifton, Linnenberg & Rust in
Cincinnati.

1940

Dr. G. WATSON JAMEs III has retired after 26 years
as chairman of the division of hematology at the
Medical College of Virginia. He will continue active
teaching and consultation.

194]

CHARLES H. CHAPMAN JR. was elected a director of
The Southern Company in Dothan, Ala. He is chair-
man of the board of both the Chapman Corporation
and SouthTrust Bank of Dothan and serves as vice
chairman of the board of Dothan Oil Mill.

1942

W. MARSHALL JOHNSON retired from his position
with The Associated Press bureau in Richmond. He
was honored in an article in the Dec. 25, 1983, Rich-
mond paper for his tremendous volunteer service as
the unofficial statistician for the Virginia High
School League sports.

WALTER L. MonnroOE retired in 1982 from the retail
clothing business. His wife currently manages the
business and is serving her fifth term as mayor of
Millsboro, Del.

1945

MILTON H. Smitu II has retired after 29 years in the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad law department. He
is living in Oklaloosa County, Fla.

1946

JAMES A. OTTIGNON retired on Jan. 1, 1984, from
Texaco Inc. after 33 years of service in the domestic

  

marketing department in the northeast region. He
will continue to reside in Mount Laurel, N.J.

1948

ANDREW H. MCCUTCHEON has been named na-
tional marketing manager for Reynolds Aluminum
Recycling Co. in Richmond. He joined Reynolds in
1968 and has held positions as community relations
manager, director of public affairs, national sales
manager and director of sales and marketing.

LAWRENCE B. WALES JR. was re-elected president of
the board of trustees for Westminster-Canterbury of
Hampton Roads Inc. on Jan. 12, 1984. He is presi-
dent of Municipal Advisors, Inc., a Virginia Beach
firm.

1949

W. Roy RICE was the author of “Operation of the
Free Gas Clause in the Oil and Gas Lease” in volume
4 of Eastern Mineral Law Institute (1983).

1950

GEORGE W. GINN is a retired geologist and is spend-
ing his time doing lots of traveling. Ginn lives in Los
Angeles.

WILLIAM B. McCausLanp has purchased a farm in
Somerset, Va., where he is raising horses and black
angus cattle. McCausland has fully recovered from
a four-bypass heart operation of a year ago and
reports that he has “never felt better.’

MILTON H. Smirtu II (See 1945.)

1951

EDWARD P. BasseETT has been named dean of jour-
nalism at Northwestern University in Evanston, IIl.
Bassett resigned his post as editor of the Statesman-
Journal newspaper in Salem, Ore., and is schedul-
ed to take over the leadership of Northwestern’s
Medill School of Journalism in March. Previously,
he directed the School of Journalism at the Univer-
sity of Southern California from 1975 to 1980.
Earlier, he had served as dean of journalism and
associate vice chancellor for academic affairs at the
University of Kansas.

WILLIAM E. DANIEL Jr. is an agency director for the
State Farm Insurance Companies for Central
Virginia. He lives in Richmond.

JACK E. GREER was elected treasurer of the board of
trustees for Westminster-Canterbury of Hampton
Roads Inc. on Jan. 12, 1984. It is his second term.
Greer is a shareholder and director in the Norfolk
law firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly and Greer.

WALTER E. MICHAELS was named head football
coach of the New Jersey-Generals in December.
(Once a General, always a General!) The former
W&L star and New York Jets coach inherits a USFL
team that finished 6-12 in its first season.

FRANKLIN H. SIMMONS represented the city of San
Marino at a sister city celebration in the Republic of
San Marino in October 1983.

JOHN R. WITTPENN has moved to Peapack, N.J.,
after 27 years in Glen Ridge. He continues to operate
Rockland Chemical Lawn and Garden Products and
has been joined in the business by his son, Bob, ’82.

1953

CLYDE S. MCCALL Jr. is president of Cenesia
Petroleum Corp. in Dallas.

1954

ROBERT E. BRADFORD has been elected senior vice
president of Safeway Stores Inc., the world’s largest
supermarket chain. Bradford served the last two
years as senior vice president of the Great A&P Tea
Co. He was president of the National Restaurant
Association for one year (1981) and, prior to that, ex-
ecutive vice president of Food Marketing Institute.
Bradford served 13 years on Capitol Hill in
Washington, D.C., including two years as ad-
ministrative assistant to Senator Bill Brock, ’53.
Bradford and his family will relocate to the San Fan-
cisco Bay area. Safeway is headquartered in
Oakland, Calif.

1955

FRANK G. GIBSON JR. is executive director of the
American Waldensian Society, based at Interchurch
Center in New York City. The society advances mis-
sion solidarity among ecumenical and Waldensian
constituencies on three continents.

Dace W. JONEs JR. was presented a merit award from
the South Carolina Hospital Association. He is
president of the Elliott White Springs Memorial
Hospital in Lancaster, S.C.

LAURENCE LEVITAN is a shareholder in the law firm
of Levitan, Ezrin, West and Kerxton in Potomac,
Md. Levitan serves in the Maryland State Senate as
chairman of the budget and taxation committee.

Curis A. LUHNOw continues to live in Mexico and
writes that he is “‘surviving the Mexican devalua-
tions, peso instability and hyperinflation.’’ He has
three sons, one at Stanford University and two at the
Webb School in Southern California.

STEPHEN M. QUILLEN was appointed by the Virginia
Supreme Court to a five-year term on the Virginia
Board of Bar Examiners. Quillen is a member of the
Virginia State Bar’s governing council representing
the 29th circuit. He, his wife and three children live
in Lebanon, Va.

PauL H. WEINSTEIN was appointed by Gov. Harry
Hughes on July 19, 1983, to be an associate judge on
the District Court of Maryland for the Sixth Judicial
Circuit.

J. WILLIAM REID (See 1958.)
43

   

 

 

      

Factor & Co., |
parent, Norton Simon
1

 

   

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. J. Ou EpMunps Jr, ason,
Christopher Francis, on Nov. 19, 1983.

Tirol. He also won a bronze medal in the North
anes _

 

T. Crone is president of Ray Ellison
in San Antonio. He was elected

 

 

 

 
   

   

) el specialist. He, his wife,
, Krisiand Jason, live

 

Tuomas P. McDavip was promoted to senior vice
president and manager of the international banking
division at the Union Trust Co. of Maryland in June
1983 in Baltimore.

SHERWOOD W. WISE JR. was a leader on a recent
cruise for the Deep Sea Drilling Project at a site 270
miles east of Cape Hatteras, N.C. The DSDP
discovered a petroleum formation that is below
waters far deeper than any site drilled to date. Wise
is a professor at Florida State University in
Tallahassee, Fla.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. TAIN P. ToMPKINS, a
daughter, Ann Louise, on Nov. 3, 1983. Tompkins is
posted overseas as chief of the economic section in
the U.S. Embassy in Zimbabwe.

FREDERICK E. Cooper, formerly executive vice presi-
dent, secretary and general counsel, has been elected
president of Flowers Industries Inc., the specialty
food processor and distributor in Thomasville, Ga.

EDWARD S. CroFT III has been promoted to senior |

vice president and director of corporate finance at
Robinson-Humphrey/American Express Inc., a
regional investment banking firm headquartered in
Atlanta. He also was elected to the board of direc-
tors of the firm.

STANLEY A. FINK is president of the Union County,
N.J., Bar Association. A graduate of Marietta Col-
lege, he discovered that another Marietta and W&L
law alumnus, Theodore H. Ritter, ’73L, was serving
as president of the Cumberland County Bar
Association. Among the 21 county bar associations
and 25,000 licensed attorneys in New Jersey, this was

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alum-
ni, Inc., the names and addresses of the

 

G. RUSSELL Lapp III, ’57

Mobile, Ala. 36601 804-788-1500

205-432-0451

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill five seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination for the offices to

 

Name Your Candidate

Nominating Committee for 1983-84 are
listed below:

 

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L CHESTER T. SMITH JR., °53

Chairman Beale Eishner, Attorneys U.S.G.A., Inc.
Thames & Batre 1 N. Sth St. P. O. Box 1601
P. O. Box 189 Richmond, Va. 23219 Darien, Conn. 06820

203-655-6222

be filled. Alumni may send names directly
to any member of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the Ex-
ecutive Secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion at the University.

The committee will close its report on
April 15, 1984, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alum-
ni Association on May 12, 1984.

 

 

   

‘ Ab
C. T: Burton Jr. 66

quite a coincidence. Fink is a partner in the firm of
Fink and Rosner in Clark, N.J.

CHARLES D. KIMBELL is a partner in the Santa Bar-
bara, Calif., law firm of Allen and Kimbell. He and
his wife, Teresa, have three sons, Grant, 10, Patrick,
5, and Marc, 2. The family enjoys surfing, swim-
ming and backpacking.

WILLIAM A. NOoELL Jr. has been appointed assistant
general solicitor for the Norfolk Southern Corp.

Dr. DONALD PALMER is in private practice with two
other associates at the Olson Pediatric Clinic in Lake
Oswego, Ore. He and his wife, Joan, have two
children, Brent, 10, and Susan, 8.

MICHAEL W. SHEFFEY has been promoted to senior
vice president in charge of corporate lending for
Southeast Bank for central Florida. During 1983,
Sheffey served as president elect and campaign chair-
man for the University of Central Florida Founda-
tion. He also completed six marathon races in-
cluding the San Francisco Marathon, the Boston
Marathon, New York City Marathon and the Miami
Corps Marathon.

1965

BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. BROOKS G. BROwN III, ason,
Grant Ridgely, on May 30, 1983. Brown is in the
private practice of ophthalmology in Chevy Chase,
Md.

C. EDMONDS ALLEN III purchased Horizon Coal
Corp. from Ashland Technology Inc. in November
1982 and another coal mining company in Kentucky.
He lives in New York and is involved in coal mining
in Kentucky and Ohio.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THORNTON M. HENRY, a son,
John Gordon, on April 17, 1983, in West Palm
Beach, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRS. DONALD J. LINEBACK, a
daughter, Anna Carolyn, on Jan. 7, 1984. Lineback
is the dean of development of Southwestern at
Memphis.

Dr. C. BARRETT ALLDREDGE iS a physician specializ-
ing in otolaryngology and facial plastic surgery in
Lafayette, La. He, his wife, and three children live in
Lafayette, La.

JoHN D. ANDERSON is working at Morris High
School in the South Bronx as a bilingual guidance
counselor. Anderson has two post-graduate degrees,
an M.A. in English as a second language from
Hunter College, and an M.S. in Education, Bilingual
Guidance and Counseling from long Island Univer-
sity. He and his family live in Hartsdale, N-Y.

C. THOMAS BuRTON Jr. has joined the law firm of
Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann & Darby in Roanoke.

45

.
/
:
F
7
/

 

 

 
  

and chief operating officer at (Post O |
Houston, Texas. |

    
 

ding into the developm
centers and the 1 limited part

 
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 

  

which "specialize in 1 advising i in

 

and one efthelaraen privately held ag
country. He, his wife, and two al

 

c Epmonps ALLEN nt (See:
D. WHITNEY —— TON |

C. BENNERS IR
. 8 1983. Benners

my insurance
mber, Carter was

Mason & ¢ Carter Inc, an an
agency in Baltim

Maryland for a one © year term.

daughter, Lauren Ann, on 1 Feb. 10, 0, 1983, in South

   

er named ge neral counsel

   
   
  
       

    
   
 

elected to the post of ‘president of the Virginians ¢ of |

with Arco, a Ine.

ent & Research Co. and—

At San Diego gathering were Frank
Price, 33, and Bert Shafer, ’39.

   

°

held v various f positions sint

 

‘Lawii in "1972, He and his wife Vicki live on Beacon
Hilti in Boston.

Tomas H. Wao Iisa partner inthe Atlanta real
Muirheid and Wright. His firm was ‘the first in
Georgia to receive an award from Builder magazi

the publication of the National Association of
Home Builders. Among a record number of over 600
entries, Wright’s firm was selected for two awards at
‘the NAHB convention in Houston. The firm receiv-

 

 

| ed the grand award for Best Luxury Townhome in the

try and first place award for Best Restoration
storic a a -

1969

HL oe JR., who with his wife and son

   

  
    
  
 

  
  
   

  
    
   
    
   
 
  
  
      
    
  
 

porary Services I Inc., a an 1 employ-
r the medical and techical profes-
his family live i in | Roanoke, Va.

. McKetway Ir. was s named the United

n tional’s Virginia J irnalist of the Year.
way is a state staff reporter ‘for the Richmond
Times Dispatch and has been honored for a portfolio
of stories ranging from features on a major mine
disaster to an investigation of a state police drug
informant. —

 

 

  
  
 

Bn

 

 

 

GEORGE P. PAGE is the executive vice president of
operations for Dillon Gage Inc., a regional com-
modities/securities firm located in Dallas. He lives
in Fort Worth.

CLINTON B. PALMER III is assistant cameraman
photographing special effects for the Boss Film
Corp. in Marina Del Rey, Calif. Palmer lives in
Pasadena, Calif.

JOSEPH D. RAINE JR. is practicing law with the firm
of Raine and Raine. He, his wife, and 6-year-old son,
Adam Randolph Clay, live in Louisville, Ky.

D. WHITNEY THORNTON IT has been named president
of Maritime Captial Inc. and its two subsidiaries,
SFW Corp. and San Diego Iron and Steel
Fabricating Inc. Maritime Capital and SFW are
located in San Francisco. The companies are engag-
ed in ship repair and conversion.

Dr. WILLIAM A. WILSON JR. provides emergency
department physician coverage at the Memorial
Hospital of Sweetwater County, Wyo.

MICHAEL T. THORNTON (See 1978.)

1971

MARRIAGE: Bruce C. LEE and Deborah DeCosta,
in May 1983. Lee is a partner with the law firm of
Bolger & Picker in Philadelphia. The couple lives in
Strafford, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. FRANK G. Davipson III, a
son by adoption, Christian Orvis, on May 10, 1983,
in Lynchburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. REINHARD W. FISCHER, a
daughter, Katherine Suzanne, on Nov. 21, 1983.
Fischer is associated with the Phoenix law firm of
Norling, Rolle, Oeser and Williams.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. STEVEN L. HAWLEY, a son,
Andrew William, in April 1983 in Nairobi, Kenya.
Hawley continues to work on rural water projects for
UNICEF in Uganda.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THOMAS E. REYNOLDS, a son,
William Leonard, on March 15, 1983. Reynoldsisa
full partner with Culpeper Family Practice
Associates in Culpeper, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. JACKSON H. Ross, a son,
Charles Jackson, on Aug. 31, 1983. Charles joins a
sister, Lisa, 11, and brother, Tyler, 6. Ross and his
family live in Clemmons, N.C. He is administrator
for Winston-Salem Health Care Plan Inc. Health
Care is a prepaid group practice of 30 physicians pro-
viding medical services to 37,000 R.J. Reynolds In-
dustry employees and their dependents.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. T. JEFFREY SALB, a daughter,
Whitney Elise, on Sept. 28, 1983, in Norfolk. Salb
is an attorney there.

Dr. HuaGu F. HI1 III is certified by both the

  

R. J. Taylor IV, ’73

American Board of Emergency Medicine and the
American Board of Law in Medicine. Hill has a
4-year-old son and a 3-year-old daughter and lives
in Silver Spring, Md.

BRADFIELD F, WRIGHT is practicing law in Houston
and also serving his 4th term in the Texas Legislature.

THOMAS HENRY ALPHIN Jr. (See 1974.)

1972

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT C. WALKER JR., a
daughter, Sara Burgess, on June 18, 1983, in
Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. CHARLES L. WHITE, a son,
Kevin Thomas, on Sept. 20, 1983. Kevin joins two
brothers, Charles Jr., 8, and Jeffrey Michael, 5.
White has been elected vice president of the personal
trust division at the Society National Bank in
Cleveland, Ohio.

THOMAS O. BARTON is a partner with the law firm of
McGinnis, Lochridge and Kilgore in Austin, Texas.
He and his wife, Lydia, have two children, Webber
Orr, 4, and Mary Wommack, 1.

Timoruy D.A. CHriss is a partner in the law firm of
Gordon, Feinblatt, Rothman, Hoffberger and
Hollander in Baltimore, Md. Chriss specializes in
commercial real estate.

BRIAN S. GREGG has become a partner in the Austin
office of the law firm of Fulbright and Jaworski.

BERNARD C. Gricsby II resigned as a partner of
Kidder-Peabody and Co. to join the government
bond trading department of Salomon Brothers in
New York as a vice president. He and his wife, Carol,
reside in Rye, N.Y.

JOSEPH R. MARTIN was licensed on Aug. 20, 1982, by
the state of Texas to practice as a certified public ac-
countant. Martin is currently in private practice in
Dallas specializing in the oil and gas industry of
Texas.

MICHAEL E. RILEY is the director of international
coal sales for United Coal Co. in Bristol, Va.

TERRY W. TYLER is vice president of Meidinger Inc.,
a national human resource and financial manage-
ment consulting firm. He lives in Anchorage, Ky.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. L. PRICE BLACKFORD, a Son,
Corbin Price, on Aug. 19, 1983, in New York.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. CHARLES W. Dunn, a son,
Andrew Charles Winfield, on Jan. 22, 1983, in
Nashville, Tenn.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. RICHARD L. ORR JR., ason,
Richard Lowman III. He joins a 2-year-old sister,

 

Mary Louise. Orr is in the private practice of inter-
nal medicine in High Point, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Ms. Jay H. KERN, a son, Michael
Bradley, on May 15, 1983, in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GREGorY B. ROBERTSON, a
daughter, Hillary Burch, on Dec. 24, 1983. Robert-
son, a partner in the firm of Hunton and Williams,
is practicing labor law in Richmond.

JEFFREY C. BURRIS continues his general civil law
practice with emphasis in corporate insurance,
disability, and medical issues. He also teaches
business insurance to CLU candidates. Burris lives
in Indianapolis, Ind. He enjoys painting in his spare
time and has won awards for his works in several state
and regional competitions.

LAWRENCE M. CrortT joined United Virginia Bank
in October 1983 as vice president and manager of
United Virginia Brokerage in Richmond.

STEPHEN K. Deay has been named international tax
counsel for Kentucky Fried Chicken, a subsidiary of
R.J. Reynolds Industries. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

Mas. JOHN C. FULLERTON III is in the Army Medical
Corps at Ft. Hood, Texas, where he is a general
surgeon at the hospital.

RONALD T. GOLD received an LL.M. degree in taxa-
tion from Emory University in Atlanta in December
1983.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER has been promoted to ad-
visory systems engineer in the Rochester national
marketing division office of IBM. He works as a
communications systems and finance industry
specialist. Martin attended the IBM achievement
symposium in San Diego in June 1983.

WILLIAM H. McILaAnany II was appointed vice presi-
dent for research and development and board direc-
tor of American Health & Nutrition Ltd., a multi-
level nutritional supplement marketing firm head-
quartered in Buena Park, Calif.

E. BRYSON POWELL has been named to the board of
directors of the Virginia Federal Savings and Loan
Association in Richmond. Powell is president of
Midlothian Enterprises, a Richmond-based cor-
poration active in residential and commercial
development.

THEODORE HENRY RITTER is president of the
Cumberland County, N.J. Bar Association. He did
his undergraduate work at Marietta College. He was
certified on Dec. 29, 1983, as a criminal trial attorney
by the New Jersey Supreme Court. So far only 640
attorneys have been certified in the state. Ritter prac-
tices in Bridgeton, N.J.

ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV has been promoted to manager
in the worldwide public accounting firm of Ernst
and Whinney in Atlanta. Taylor joined the firm in

47

walader, Wickersham, and Taft in New York.

Dr. JOHN EL KEITH Jr. is chief resident of or-
thopaedic surgery at the Universit:
Carolina at at Chapel Hill

 

 

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. FREDERICK L. SILBERNAGEL
III, a son, Frederick Lawrence IV, on Dec. 13, 1983.
Silbernagel is a partner in the CPA firm of Stoy,
Malone and Co. in Washington. He and his family
live in Bethesda, Md.

JAMES P. CARMODY, an attorney in Richlands, Va.,
has opened a branch office in Tazewell.

PETER R. CAVALIER was promoted to assistant vice
president at Citicorp U.S.A. in Iselin, N.J.

Carey D. CHISHOLM and his wife, Robin, are current-
ly stationed at the 98th General Hospital in
Nuremberg, Germany, where he is the chief of the
emergency department and ambulance section. This
past June he completed his emergency medicine
residency at Madigan Army Medical Center in
Tacoma, Wash. Chisholm also served as physician
advisor for the rangers at Mt. Ranier National Park
during that time.

L. LANGHORNE CRAIGHILL JR. has been named Lees
Carpets commercial sales representative in New York
City where he is making his headquarters in the com-
pany’s showroom at Burlington House.

Davip W. DEnNy is a sales representative with
Wykeham Farrance Inc. in Raleigh, N.C., a manufac-
turer of civil engineering equipment based in
England.

M. BARRINGER ELLIs is beginning his fifth year
E.N.T. surgery residency at Madigan Army Medical
Center at Ft. Lewis, Wash. He and his wife,
Langhorne, have a two-year-old daughter, Sayre
Elizabeth.

Douctas M. Faris is practicing law in Charlotte,
NC.

THOMAS K. MCCLELLAN is a partner in the law firm
of Lee and McClellan in Asheville, N.C.

JOHN S. Norris JR. is president-elect of the
Tidewater chapter of the Federal Bar Association.
Heis an attorney with Williams, Worrell, Kelly and
Greer in Norfolk.

THOMAS L. SANSONETTI was chosen by the Wyom-
ing Republican party officials to be their new state
chairman. Sansonetti lives in Gillette, Wyo. He is the
youngest chairman in the state’s history and will also
serve as Wyoming representative to the Republican
National Committee.

GreEGory M. Sorc plays the trumpet for the Dart-
mouth Symphony Orchestra in Hanover, N.H., and
for the opera company in Norwich, Vt. He is also
refurbishing an old house in his spare time. Sorg
practices law in Woodsville, N.H.

JONATHAN L. SPEAR is with International Business
Machines Corp. as an area counsel with IBM’s
federal systems division in Gaithersburg, Md. Spear
and his family live in McLean, Va.

1977

MARRIAGE: Wi.uiaM M. EwI1nc Jr. and Denise
Estes on April 23, 1983. They live in Marietta, Ga.,
where he is an accredited industrial hygienest. Ew-
ing won an award from the Georgia Tech Engineer-
ing Experiment Station for outstanding perfor-
mance in program development for the environmen-
tal health and safety division. Over 600 other com-
petitiors contended for the award.

MARRIAGE: James E. Kocu and Mary Ann
Reidelbach on Aug. 20, 1983, in Indianapolis, Ind.
Alumni in attendance were John D. Rosen, ’77,
Stewart Jackson, ’81, and Richard M. Koch, ’75.
Koch is working on a post-masters level degree in civil
engineering construction management at Stanford
University to be completed in June 1984. He will be
assigned to a district as a captain with the Army
Corps of Engineers.

MARRIAGE: JAMES C. VARDELL III and Elizabeth
R. Updegraff on May 7, 1983, in St. Petersburg, Fla.
Classmates James H. Fisher, Stephen D. Good,
Roger B. Leithead and Issac L. Wornom were
members of the wedding party. The couple lives in
New York where Vardell is associated with the law
firm of Cravath, Swaine and Moore.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. STEVEN P. BAILEY, a son by
adoption, Kelland James, on October 22, 1983, from
Seoul, Korea. Bailey is a partner with the law firm
of Gorsuch, Kirgis, Campbell, Walker and Grover
in Denver.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. SOLOMON G. BROTMAN, a
daughter, Elizabeth Ann, on Nov. 24, 1983, in
Baltimore. Brotman is technical editor of The Den-
tists Office and other publications. He was named
by Baltimore Magazine as one of the “84 people to
watch in ’84.”’

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. ROBERT M. CHIAVIELLO JR.,
a daughter, Ashleigh Belmont, in November 1983.
Chiaviello is an attorney with Pennie & Edmonds in
New York. He also has a beef cattle ranch and lives
in Tranquility, N.J. 7

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. STEVEN N. GABELMAN, a
son, Barry Paul, on Sept. 7, 1983. Gabelman and his
wife, Amy, live in Roswell, Ga.

 

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. E. MorGAN MAXWELL III,
a son, Ellsworth Morgan IV, on Aug. 23, 1983. Max-
well and his wife, Karen, are both attorneys at the law
firm of Arter and Hadden in Cleveland.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. JEFFREY W. Morris, a
daughter, Meaghan Elizabeth, on Dec. 8, 1983. Mor-
ris has been promoted from assistant to associate
professor of law at the University of Dayton, effec-
tive in the 1984-85 academic year. He is also co-
author of a legal text entitled Chapter 13 Practice and
Procedure, published by Shepard’s/McGraw-Hill.
He, his wife, and two daughters live in Dayton.

REID H. GriFFIN is the chief financial officer anda
principal in Heritage Software Inc., a Los Angeles
based software publishing firm for the microcom-
puter industry.

MARSHALL K. SNYDER is communications officer for
the 22nd Marine Amphibious Unit. His unit left this
country last October. After a short diversion to
Grenada to conduct several successful amphibious
landings, they were deployed in Beirut as part of the
multinational force there.

1978

MARRIAGE: BENJAMIN G. PHILPorT and Lesley
Robin Garrett, on Aug. 27, 1983, in Tampa, Fla. J.
Alvin Philpott, ’45, was best man. Other groomsmen
in attendance were James A. Philpott Jr., 69, ’72L,
Michael P. Chapman, ’75, W. Fain Rutherford, ’75,
°78L, and J. Philip Boger, ’75. Philpott is in private
practice as an attorney in Lexington, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MBs. FRANK F. Barr, a daughter,
Jennifer Lynne, on Dec. 7, 1983, in Hamilton Square,
NY.

BIRTH: Capt. AND Mrs. Mark W. HAMPTON, a son,
Matthew Wade, on July 8, 1983. They live in Mar-
tinez, Ga. Hampton is in the materiel and logistics
systems division of combat developments at Fort
Gordon.

BIRTH: MR. AND MRS. JONATHAN W. SAGER, a
daughter, Rebecca, on Oct. 12, 1983, in Manlius, NY.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. MICHAEL T. THORNTON, a
son, Eamon Arthur, on Aug. 21, 1983. Thornton is
an associate with the Atlanta law firm of Dennis,
Corry, Webb, and Carlock, which specializes in in-
surance defense litigation.

JEAN L. ByasszE has resigned her position as senior
counsel to the Hospital Corporation of America in
Nashville to join the law firm of Graves, Dougher-
ty, Hearon, and Moody in Austin, Texas. She will
continue to practice health law.

STEVEN G. ScHWaRTZz has joined the law firm of
Baskett, Adler, Peterson and Freiden in maritime law
and litigation practice. Schwartz coordinates the
visits of tall sailing ships and organizes the fireworks

49

 

 

Class Notes

 

  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
  

Young Lawyers section. |
WILLIAM G. TAYLOR has - 2 : : ‘
NC C., » to to Chicago wi a First Un

 
    
 

strong, Vaughn, ; an sa
He lives in Daphne, Ala. a

as siland. In
he began a tour with the Special Forces.

  

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
 

] ate frot n n the University of of
lof Law and will also be commis-
lieutenant in the Army through the
ROTC program at tthe John Hopkins University in
May 1 1984.

   

1980

MARRIAGE: PETER Cc. Kin GSI BERY and Christine
Mary Burns on Dec. 17, 1983, in Spring Lake, N.J.
Kingsbery is a supervisor in the municipal bond
trading department of E.F. Hutton and Co. i in n New
| York.

 

ed: 7 Loring Air naots Be af F a qu
a KC-135 navigator. He will become an instructor
in California.

 

this summer 7 peastie? Air ids Base

 

  
     
  

_ BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. JOHN R. C1ark III, a son,

John Robert IV, on Nov. 9, 1983, in Washington,
DC. Clark was admitted to the DC. Bar in December
1983. The family resides i in | Alexandria, Va.

—WiLiaM L. GARRETT JR. isin private practice with

O’Donnell & Hughes in Wilmington, Del., and i is
vice president of marketing for Seascape Techi

Inc. Seascape produces and markets synthetic
seaweed for beach erosion control.

 

“Betsy C. GoopeLis an n attorney with the office of

 

disclosure policy at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission i in Washington, Dc. a

“ALLO is capital expense controller for
erril! Lynch & Co. Inc. in New York where he is liv-
-entifallo has completed his M. B.A. in finance
ntern ational business. |

 

MARRIAGE: Nicuotas H. Hantzes and Mary
Brendan Reiter of Baltimore, Md., on Sept. 3, 1983.

‘Hantzes is an betas with Cooter & Gell in

Washington, DC.

MARRIAGE: BRADLEY A. Lewis and Jennifer
Johnson on Aug. 6, 1983. In attendance ra Me

 

   
      
  
 

his clerkship with

1e and is now work-
he law firm of Bird,

ch sr pecializes in employ- |

 

the US. District C
ing in private C

counsel for the third
infantry division of the U. S. Army. He is stationed
in Schweinfurt, ‘West Germar |

 

Wim R. CoLE Mis isa commercial sllending officer
at the First Natior nal Bank of Louisville in the finance
sion, which specializes in asset-based lending and
uring leveraged buy-outs. Heis also a booking
et it, based in Nashville, —

e in Glenview, Ky.,

 

 

Tenn. He shares a carriage ho

| with classmates Whit Welch and Stuart Neff. |

STUART Mason has earned a promotion. with the
port authority of New York and New Jersey. He lives
in Rego F Park, NY. ©

 

 

 

 

DavIp F. MULLIN is teaching at Wakefield School in
Huntley, Va. He is coach of soccer, basketball, and
lacrosse and housemaster of the boys’ dorm.

DANIEL J. RASKIN will receive his masters degree in
industrial and organizational psychology from the
University of Baltimore in May 1984. He works for
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
in the division of personnel systems improvement.

JEFFERSON J. REITER is the manager of Reiter Dairy’s
branch operation in Findlay, Ohio.

TRAcy G. SavacE is the dean of faculty and academic
dean at the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.

RICHARD B. SILBERSTEIN is a life and health in-
surance broker associated with the George E. Boyn-
ton Agency in Baltimore.

ROBERT V. SIsK JR.. is the marketing manager for
Piedmont Engineering Corp., an industrial
refrigeration company in Charlotte, N.C.

NANcy J. SPRITZER is now spending time at home
raising her two children Zachary, 3, and Sarah, 3
months. Spritzer and her family live in Turnersville,
N.J.

1982

Paul M. BLAck is attending T.C. Williams School of
Law at the University of Richmond. He attended
Emmanuel College, Cambridge University in
England during the summer to study law. Black will
be clerking for the law firm of Williams, Mullen and
Christian, in Richmond starting this summer.

WILLIAM H. Bovers worked with legal aid in upstate
New York for five months before joining Mendes
and Mount in New York to practice aviation law.

WILLIAM F.L. BRown is working for Kirkland & Ellis,
a law firm in Washington.

WILLIAM T. CocKE IV is working in the alumni and
development office at The Webb School in Bell
Buckle, Tenn. He is also a dormitory counselor, assis-
tant soccer coach, a French tutor and editor and
publisher of the school’s alumni magazine.

JOHN E. FOWLER is working as acomputer program-
mer for the Kendall Co., a hospital products firm
owned by Colgate-Palmolive Corp. Fowler also at-
tends Bentley College. He lives in Arlington, Mass.

EnRICK K. HAIGutT JR. and his partner were com-
mended for writing the best respondent team brief
in the second-year Moot Court competition at the
University of South Carolina. Haight is a second-
year law student there.

JOHN E. Monrok is working in the mergers and ac-
quisition department of Dean Witter Reynolds in
New York.

J. STRATTON Moonrkz is executive vice president of

North Shore Engravers in Manchester, Mass., a
family business which supplies clothing, accessories
and jewelry to finer clothing stores, through mail
order catalogs and department stores.

1983

MARRIAGE: T. Fitcy Kinc III and Rose Marie
Morales on Nov. 26, 1983, in Jacksonville, Fla. King
graduated from Naval Officer Candidate School on
Nov. 18, 1983, and will begin Nuclear Power School
on March 12, 1984.

MARRIAGE: Joun H. SENSABAUGH and Kimber-
ly Ann Hall on Dec. 3, 1983, in Lexington. They live
in Richlands, Va., where Sensabaugh is employed by
the Jack Eckerd Corp.

RICHARD A. BAER is northeast regional sales
manager for Transnitro Inc. He lives in Lancaster, Pa.

SENG-KAH Bagy is employed by American Interna-
tional Industries Ltd., an oil and industrial supply
company in Singapore.

MICHAEL J. BISBEE graduated from the University of
New Hampshire on Dec. 18, 1983, with a B.A. degree
in linguistics. He lives in Rochester, N.H.

CHRISTOPHER C. BOUQUET is assistant to the presi-
dent of the Stuart McGuire Co. Inc. He and his wife,
Barbara, live in Salem, Va.

STEVEN D. CoRBEILLE is in Australia where he is en-
joying taking classes in Melbourne, playing basket-
ball in Perth, hiking in Tasmania and working on an
island in the Great Barrier Reef. He is a Rotary In-
ternational exchange student at Monashu University
in Clayton, Victoria.

et

oH

ay

 

ij
I
i
in
i
‘tall
ry

i

ODay ry
red

\

    

Harry A. FEUERSTEIN works for the Herbert Susser
accounting firm in New York, while attending
Baruch College for an M.B.A. degree. He is living in
Smithtown, N.Y., and is a second lieutenant in the
New Jersey National Guard.

Eric R. FIFE is a reporter and videographer for
WXLI-TV in Sarasota, Fla. He plans to begin
graduate studies in telecommunications next fall.

Davip W. HADDOCK is a consultant to VAL-AGRI
Inc., a newly formed major beef company in
Wichita, Kan. In the fall of 1984, he will return to
Columbia University in New York to earn his M.B.A.
degree.

DEANE A. HENNETT is a management trainee with
Heilig-Meyers Corp. in Richmond, Va.

Lt. KEITH E. GORETZKA is serving as the executive
officer with Charlie Company, 2nd Training Brigade
at Fort Jackson, S.C.

STEPHEN K. GREENE is a Staff accountant with Price
Waterhouse in their New York office.

MICHAEL M. GreEcory is working on a master’s
degree in anthropology at Arizona State University.

BRIAN L. HANSON is financial analyst for a regional
financial institution in northern Virginia.

PATRICK C. JORDAN is a first-year law student at the
University of Richmond.

MICHAEL H. LEWERs is a management trainee at
American Bank and Trust of Pennsylvania. He lives
in Wayne, Pa.

Davip W. Mook: is enrolled at the University of
South Carolina pursuing a doctorate degree in en-
viromental health sciences.

EDWARD J. O’BRIEN IV is a corporate systems analyst
in the computer services department of Brown-
Forman Distillers Corp. in Louisville. He is taking
evening courses to prepare for an M.B.A. program.

CHRISTOPHER B. POWER is a first-year student in the
combined law and M.B.A. program at West Virginia
University.

ISRAEL K. REDD III is regional sales manager for the
eastern territory of Burke-Parsons-Bowlby Corp. of
Goshen, Va. Redd also participated in the Marine
Corps marathon in Washington in the fall.

Davip P. RIDION, a second lieutenant, graduated
from a military intelligence officer basic course and
a tactical intelligence staff officer course at Ft.
Huachuca, Ariz. He is stationed in the 8th Army
Headquarters in Seoul, Korea.

MICHAEL G. SCHULER is employed as a Sales
representative by four furniture manufacturers. He
travels the east coast territory, including North

51

 

 

 

-
7
7
i
.

_ In Memoriam

Carolina, Virginia, Washington, De. Maryland: and
eastern Pennsylvania, ;

Scorr A. SLADEis employed with May z zim a £0,
a regional CPA firm i in Atlanta. | |

Antuony J. ZaccaGnin attends the Univer:
Baltimore School of Law. St:
> will clerk for Judge Ft

  
 
 

 

 

Balimore County iia Court. |

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
 

 

 

  

te : Bar Association, In tions he was oats
on-Ledger kectihieaieot aerate service

ates from 1946 to pea died

corporat f nce eee
pany, died Jans, 5, 1084, in Charlotte, ]

1927

| LARUE BOWKER, : a . resident of eee die 1 Aug.
8, 1983. He was an attorney and retired dir ctor of
claims for the United States A Aviation Un ters

  

| Gossett Wuxs McRag, retired president of Inter.
national Ship Brokers Inc., died Sept. 11, 1983. He
| ‘ive yea rs as class agent for the W&L enaual

 

"1983. He served as a deacon an
dent of the oc OLteit Ro

a former member of the —

 
 
 
  
 
   
      
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
 
  
     
 

Presbyterian Church of Sout

 

WILLIAM er Succ, retired bank p
attorney, died Oct. "25, 1983, in] a tte

1932

JULIAN FINLEY BROOME, ‘retired district
manager for RC. Motor Lines, died ape 3,
in Jacksonville, Fla.

HENRY BRANT FAIRCHILD, retired vice
| ug Co., died Nov. 24, 198:
as hi second vice president and wasa\
board of control for the National Who
ne Association. Fairchild was also:

 

 

judge of the court o
Outen |

 

 

1933

MEREDITH, retired superintendent

On, NY., at- :

_ ment analyst for the Veteran

sharin and Public service.”

1934

RUGELEY PIERSON DEVAN JR., president of DeVan-
Gallaher Inc., a general i insurance agency, died Jan.
24, 1984, in Charleston, WVa. DeVan i was past presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce, the United Fund
_and the Rotary Club. He was the chairman of the
Greater Kanawha Valley Foundation and the Police
Civil Service Commission, an elder of the First
byterian Church and a member of the Edgewood
“Country Club. He was the recipient ofa Distinguish-
ed Alumnus Award from WEL. re

 

 
 

 

 

WILLIAM HESLEP RoBinson (See 1937, )

1935

ARL PORTER WILLARD, retired. president of the
al d Mirror Co. in Ft. Smith, Ark. died Dec. 29,

   
  

B nk. retro was a member of the
Golf Club, the Garden of the Gods

JOHN PHILLIPS JONES, retired supervisory manage-
ferans Administration, died
Jan. 15, 1984, after along illness. He was a member
of the Washington Golf and cei Club.

 

 
 
    
 
   
   

 

Ew Timawons Cannon x See 1939. os a

WILLIAM HESLEP Rosinton, reti ed | ‘ttorney and
newspaper publisher, di . Robinson
was the president 0! Memorial

On , anattorney at law in private
26, 1983, in \ Timmonsville, SC.

 

bu yer t with the Western Electrie e Co, died i in
mber 1983. He worked with divisions in New
York City and East Orange for 27 years. Haislip was
a member of the Friends of Chatham Library, past
hairman of the Cub Scouts Committee of Cha

Borough and Chatham Township and alife member
of the Thayer chapter of the Tele phone Pioneers of
America, New York City. Os

1973

   

 

Davip DEAN ROYER JIR., manager of American

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

And furthermore. . .

Letters to the Editor on Coeducation, Fraternities, and the Alumni College

NOTE: These letters represent all the letters addressed to “And furthermore. . .’? as of March 9 and are not an edited version of a larger body of mail.

ON COEDUCATION

Editor:

I am greatly disturbed by some of the so-
called “facts” being given to the alumni in the
current discussion of coeducation.

I retired to Lexington 12 years ago having
served some 30 years as an officer and direc-
tor of the New York Alumni Association and
a four-year term as an officer and director of
the Alumni Association. It was during that
term that the athletic de-emphasis decision
was unanimously made with all Alumni
Association directors present and voting with
the University Trustees. I have also served as
state chairman on capital fund drives, many
years as Class Agent, etc., etc.

Since I have lived here it has been reported
to alumni almost yearly that the SAT scores of
the entering class have risen and that the
number of freshman class applicants has in-
creased. Our fifth Rhodes Scholar in the past
12 years has just been chosen. I doubt that any
other small school in the country can match
that record. I suggest you read the Nov. 28,
1983, issue of the US. News & World Report
where it was reported that Washington and Lee
was named the best school in the country ina
certain category by almost half the college
presidents who answered a questionnaire on
the subject. No other school was even close to
uS.

Where is the hue and cry for coeducation
coming from? I frankly do not know. When
the students vote on it, some years it is “‘yes’’,
some years it is “‘no’’. The same with the facul-
ty, although both groups came here knowing
it was all-male. Of the faculty members I have
talked to some say, “‘we should give it a try.”’
They are excellent teachers but they are not
businessmen and do not realize the enormous
costs, loss of alumni support and, most impor-
tant, that a decision to go to coeducation is
well-nigh irreversible in the future.

Am I in favor of coeducation? Definitely
“‘ves.’? My two daughters graduated from a
small coeducational college. Am I in favor of
coeducation at Washington and Lee? Definite-
ly “‘no.’’ I have read and heard countless
arguments against coeducation here but, in my
judgment, the two opinions which follow—
one practical and the other philosophical—
are of prime importance.

Of practical importance is the matter of

alumni giving in the future. A majority of the
money raised in the recent capital fund drive
came from alumni and about 10% of the pre-
sent yearly operating costs come from alum-
ni giving to the Annual Fund. The following
figures are interesting in a negative way. They
are taken from the October, 1983, Alumni
Magazine which listed Law Class giving to the
1982-83 Annual Fund. (Women first gra-
duated in 1975.)

Consolidated Law Class Giving Totals—1975-82

Lee Colonnade
Associates Club Others
Men 3 57 191
Women — 10 34

It is interesting to note that 1976, with a
husband and wife as Class Agents, show-
ed these results:

Men 1 14 26
Women — mene 4

The above facts, not theory, show how
results in alumni giving might decline in the
future. To put it bluntly, I foresee severe finan-
cial problems if we turn to coeducation.

Now for a bit of philosophy. It is reported
that all-male colleges in our country are down
to five: two military schools, VMI and The
Citadel, plus Wabash, Hampden-Sydney and
ourselves. Yet there are still dozens of all-
female colleges, some of which are among the
best schools in the country. If we turn to
coeducation, how much “choice” are we leav-
ing for the young men?

The use of the word “choice” in this in-
stance is not merely symbolic. It is important
to our country as well as to us of Washington
and Lee. Our ancestors “chose” to come to this
country for many and varied reasons. Here we
have “choice” as to where to live, where to
work, where to worship or not worship, etc. We
pride ourselves on having “choices” in almost
everything we do. Let’s keep it that way at
Washington and Lee and offer a “choice” to
the minority of college-bound students who
sik hag RS ne Salle Rs wept edges 8 “

1749 WASHINGTON »oLEE UNIVERSITY 1949

i?

 
    

 

BA AAA AMAA

  
     

  
 
 
 

 

24.4 2 222 4 @4 4 @2.4.4 2 @ 424 24 OAs

      

bh | any 2

 

opt for an all-male school, not necessarily

because it is all-male, but because it offers the
best in education—as we do now.

STUARD A. WURZBURGER, ’28

Lexington, Va.

(The official minutes of the Board of Trustees
do not indicate that anyone other than the
Trustees bore the responsibility for the July 23,
1954, decision to cancel the 1954 football
season, to cease granting “athletic scholar-
ships, ’’ and to seek a resumption of football
competition with schools with similar “unsub-
sidized”’ athletic policies. University records
do indicate that alumni representatives were
involved in the discussions leading to the deci-
sion. Since the School of Law began accepting
women, 270 have been admitted. There are 112
women enrolled in the School of Law this
year—Ed.)

Editor:

To amplify John Warner’s good letter to
Peter A. Agelasto, III, you graciously printed
in the January issue, Washington and Lee is
indeed unique; unique in ways not obvious to
all its own sons and to few of its students.

Among the thousands of educational in-
stitutions of all sizes and levels in our country,
“Our Schoo!” is the only one endowed by the
Father of that country. No other! Unique?

The most beloved figure of American
history—perhaps the only man ever more
idolized in defeat than in victory—adored by
friend and former foe alike, gave “Our
School” his final and most dedicated energies.
No other institution has received such a
heritage from such a person. No other!
Unique?

Though there be hundreds of excellent all-
women schools, there now remain only five
secular, four-year liberal colleges for men.
They are Washington and Lee, Hampden-
Sydney, VMI, The Citadel, and Wabash Col-
lege in Indiana. Each is excellent and all are
vastly superior to their coed counterparts. Yet
only “Our School” of the five was selected best
by far of all the small colleges (including coed
and all-women’s) in the nation. No other!
Unique?

We are not opposed to change merely to be
opposed to change. But knowing of the success
of the character of ‘Our School’, who would
dare change the formula? One doesn’t seek

53

 

 

major change when the world insists that

which he has is the very best, the best by a wide

margin. Indeed, it is the business of those who |

_ may be something less than the best to look for
ways to change. |
It is our business, each of us, to use every

opportunity to let the world know how unique -

and how great “Our School” is
And, it is.

  

(Becauseoh rmix—liberal rat arts and ci )
merce, journalism, and lav
designated a “small comprehe

 
 

| Pomona, Willi ir erford,
Oberlin, ‘Swarth / ins, Wesleyan,
7 klin & Marshall, etc—in

ns with which we are

   
    
  
 
  

mentioned ‘that he was reading ,
Bracelen Flood’ ’s biography of Robert E. Lee
| Lee: The Last Years. Tquotea few p particular-

 
 

  
 
 

  
  
  

lyis to those of us v whoa
ed were W&L to

> Mr. Leach’s request) for possible use by ae

met Pp prog ram ¢ |
Leei is also thet moor ‘4 lig]

knowi it, and la am oa, ae were eW&L t to

W&L—the W&L Robert E. Lee played a role

ing demographics and new conceptions of

women’s role, we risk killing that institution.
Demographic trends and women’s increas-

ing prominence in the professional world are

not in and of themselves sufficient justifica-

tion for Washington and Lee’s becoming a

coeducational i institution after more than 230°

ears Of service to men only—not, that is, if go- |

 

ing coed would jeopardize W&Ls € existence a as

 

fostered and where society is served i in an ex-
traordinary way. But it would not. The fact is
that nothing which igton and Lee tru-
it would be chang-
women to the
_ lives for us—if

    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 

undergraduate schoo
it lives at all—in our

 
  
  
 
  
   
  

spin. No temporal shan;

mastery of his material and his Jk aiper in-

_ tegrity of demeanor . . Dr. Futch’s dropping an

album of Handel’s sonatas off at the Robe

 

Lee Hotel (where I worked as a night *lerk) |
with a note attached, “Anyone who likes |

Handel ought to wear a white hat. He's got to
be a good guy.”’ . . Maurice Leach turning a
tolerantly deaf ear to Tchaikovsky as I blare

the Russian master’s music from the open win-

 

dows of McCormick Library on a hot July

   

7 oe

noon on which I’d opened the Library (at

ie . . oe

visiting teachers particiy ati

   

   

 

_collegial,’’ coeducat

"Lee. And I believe that leadership of that mold.

would see to it that my daughter will have the

- same opportunity in 1988 that my son will have

in the year 2000 (Lord willing). Otherwise,
both daughter and son may choose to attend

Harvard, or Amherst, or Stanford, Duke, or

Davidson—all of which, as I think Professor
-Riesman would agree, are, like Washington
and Lee, strong places, “at once scholarly and

 

 

ation notwithstanding.

Finally, to wrap this all up, it strikes me that
institutions may, like human beings, be known
by the company they keep. And I submit that
the small company of Wabash College,
Hampden-Sydney, VMI, and The Citadel is
not the best company. I am hoping that the
Board of Trustees will make sure that
Washington and Lee will be generally known
in future years as the fine c company tt in ‘truth, |
currently i is. |

 

 

LEONARD A. BLANCHARD 69
. Dallas, Texas

\d care shown in President Wilson’s |
nd Paper. a this kind of leader-

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

 
 

 
  
 

 

ses wlldecde the coe

 

Q lucation

 
 

 

or life. andi it — place at which
ay n who would become my wife

  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

become; acoed ducational institution that same
experience would yet. be, a ‘possibility.
Coeducation cannot change

and I fail to see how it¢ can change the essential |

 

 
 

in creating— for: any of my fellow alun

  

 
 

 

| “Anyi individual who has slived the profound
privilege of four years study in Lexington and
who has experienced the magical aura of quali-
ty and tradition that. shrouds the University
like a thick fog on a winter’s morning will no-
doubt treat any proposal for, undé

change with concern, emotio:

even alarm. For the gi
is incumbent on ¢ ve v

 

 

 
   
    
  
 
 
 

“u niqueness” of its single se sex
did I avoid it because of the
5] ended Sex character v was oe pniel a

 

 

Lee is ‘located i in 1 Virginia o off 1-81, a Six-
hour drive from my home. I did choose
v Jashington and Lee because it is a place of
quality education, a Place» where a ‘Gilliam or

 

 

a Leyburn or a Starling teaches one to pursue
excellence at the boundary of one’s limits, a
place located in a part of the world surely
touched by God’s hand and given incredible

raw beauty.

Quality education and the pursuit of ex-
cellence produce the “uniqueness” of
Washington and Lee University, and whether
the mind involved is housed in a male or female
body seems more and more irrelevant as time
goes along. As our culture has matured over
the past several decades the arbitrary separa-
tion of individuals on the basis of race, sex,
age, religion, etc, has been universally
recognized as an anachronism to be grown out
of. Washington and Lee is not an island
isolated and separate; it must respond to its
larger surroundings.

Following the Civil War the South lay in
ruins and faced a considerable task of
rebuilding. As I understand it, when Robert E.
Lee arrived at Washington College, he found
a very classical curriculum intended to train
young men for the ministry and for law. In
response to the times and the environment, Lee
instituted fundamental changes in the
academic program, adding elements of prac-
tical education such as applied mathematics,
philosophy, modern languages, history,
English, and physical sciences—all of which
were intended to train and prepare students to
meet the times. Once again the Washington
and Lee community is considering how it will
respond to the times and the larger
environment.

Many practical and logistical considera-
tions are yet to be made and much data is yet
to be collected. I urge all fellow members of the
Washington and Lee community to avoid
snap, emotion-led, knee-jerk reactions to the
coeducation issue, to wait for all data to be
gathered, and to then make individual opinion
decisions based on one overriding factor—
how best to maintain and constantly improve
the excellence of the University.

E. PHIFER HELMs, ’74
Greenville, S.C.

Editor:

I have read with interest the several issues
of the Alumni Magazine that have addressed
the question of coeducation.

Regardless of the outcome, the care and
thoughtfulness that have marked the Univer-
sity’s engagement with this issue will serve it
well. The President, Board of Trustees, and
Alumni Board of Directors properly have
argued that only a full and reasoned discussion
will yield a responsible decision.

Whatever our views, we in turn owe the
University our most carefully considered
arguments. To offer less is to do the Universi-
ty and ourselves a disservice.

Resolved in our opinions as many of us are,
in the end we must give way to whatever course

of action ensures the continued well-being of
the University as one of the nation’s ranking

institutions of higher learning.
THOMAS V. LITZENBURG, JR., 57
Winston-Salem, N.C.

(Dr. Litzenburg is president of Salem College,
a private college for women.—Eda.)

Editor:

Some young men, for various reasons, find
it very helpful to have their masculinity, or
sense of sexual identity, reinforced by experien-
cing for several years in later adolescence a
strictly masculine environment. Such an en-
vironment, such an atmosphere, was once pro-
vided by our University. No more. A choice?
Meaningless.

In my time the faculty was all male. There
were no girls in the classes. For sanitary
reasons, bathing suits were not permitted in the
pool. Today we have many female teachers, a
fair number of girls in the classrooms. Nude
swimming is not even an option, with women
allowed in the pool.

Let us not fool ourselves. The masculine at-
mosphere is gone. We already have coeduca-
tion. Let us either phase out these innovations,
or go the whole way.

I am adamantly opposed to even the
slightest increase in the enrollment. I would
rather cut it to 1,300. And let us have no sort
of quota system for girls. Let us admit
students, not boys and girls.

SAMUEL LOGAN SANDERSON, ’22
Natural Bridge, Va.

(W&L’s limited exchange program with
Hollins, Sweet Briar, R-MWC, Mary Baldwin,
Hampden-Sydney, and Randolph-Macon can
bring as many as 30 women to W&L each year.
It seldom has in its 14-year operation. The
average has been 10 to 13 a year; 10 (not all in
the same term) are participating this year—
Ed.)

Editor:

As regards President Wilson’s recommen-
dation to reexamine the issue of coeducation
at W&L, I can only add my concurrence with
the analysis of the issues in his commentary.
My education at W&L would have been
enhanced by opportunities for amore normal
interaction with female students in the daily
academic setting, rather than at an occasional
weekend party. I might point out that the
study, in examining the anachronism of single-
sex education, will have to consider another
anachronism that might be created by
coeducational campus life, namely sororities.
Perhaps now is also the time to consider the ap-
propriateness of fraternities and sororities to
the educational mission of W&L.

O. BERTRAND Ramsay, 755
Ypsilanti, Mich.

Editor:

As an undergraduate from ’65-’69, I was
opposed to coeducation at W&L and remain-
ed so into the ’70’s. And if anyone had asked
me why, I’m sure I would have referred to
“tradition” and had in mind the idea of what
Dr. Wilson expressed so well in his paper, that
the masculine society of W&L is part and
parcel of the University’s very essence, “‘with
all its rough camaraderie and good spirit and
mutual affection and trust.’’ During the ’70’s
my feelings gradually changed, and although
I shall always look back upon my experiences
there with a great deal of affection and
gratitude, I now feel that undergraduate
coeducation would be the best policy for the
present and future.

Of equal importance to me (An edited
reference to demographic projections of
declining college-age population—Ed.) is
what I have come to view in recent years as the
dispartity between the meaning of a liberal
education and the fact of excluding women
from it in any given setting. It seems to me that
one of the central purposes of a liberal educa-
tion is to broaden one’s horizons, intellectually
and socially. It just isn’t logical to assume that
this can best be achieved by the arbitrary exclu-
sion of half (or more) of the potential student
population on the basis of sex. How can any
student, male or female, receive the most
balanced possible view of human experience
in an environment largely devoid of the op-
posite sex except on social occasions?

Speaking from my own experiences and
perceptions of W&L in the late ’60’s, to
whatever degree male chauvinism was present
on campus, it was attributable in large measure
to the fact that female college students were
confined to an exclusively social role in the
lives of many students and thus were often
perceived more as objects of sex than as human
beings. Obviously, these attitudes were not
characteristic of all students, but they were cer-
tainly widespread at that time (and may still
be). I believe such attitudes would soon be
modified and become much less prevalent in
a coeducational setting, where female students
would immediately assume new intellectual
and social roles. I am confident that the
presence of women in W&L’s undergraduate
classrooms and as an integral part of campus
life could only have a positive influence on stu-
dent life, and it would help W&L realize even
more fully the ideals of liberal arts education,
which it has always been a leader in providing.

RUFUS KINNEY, ’69
Montevallo, Ala.

Editor:

It bereaves me to hear my fellow alumni
focusing the debate on coeducation around
statistical data. Such a utilitarian approach
does not confront the real issue. If the pool of
applicants is to decline in years to come, then

55

 

 

 

 
   

L tte tters to the Editor

real ty and begin to offerit

  
 

jeal 8, é a and il applaud levee 31
port. coeducation at WEL not
] status, but. because I a ceive W&L
atir ing ans antiquated, ; most

   

     
  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

| resin eure ns

survival of the Un: rercit

blems s outlined 1 Invc i :

 

ainly changed since I was a stu-

   

 

an adjust to coedy |

 

ed for the better. It cai
aswell.”
You will undoub
from the “itt it t ain't broke, don't tix it” « con-

 
     
   
  
 

 

 
 

coeducation would s sin 3 ly]
as the times. require.

 
     
   
 

edly hear to the contrary |

can ele avoid a a

  

 

ccupants. (And how dd they ae

 

| ac Coke ke machine up the fire escape, any

| Animals? goodly niacin ate from plates,

and frequently walked on two legs (usually
with little or no assistance), just like everyone
else. They were future captains of industry,

destined to become pillars of their com-
munities. And theirs was one of the best

 

unkempt party pavilions on campus. Certain-
ly, these squires of unswerving uprightness
knew what a fraternity was for.

And, gent!

   

 
 

emen, I ask you: What are
ties for, if not, as Fure puts it, “bohe-
qualor, recurrent mayhem, and anti-

a behavior”? Let’s get chaos and moral

 
  

depravity off our streets and back i in 1 the frat
swhereit belongs.
- PAUL Dav GH ERI

 

 

 
 

ba ; preat: earning ‘experience, as” did
one beets the class, eee the fact that

  
 
  

i it forge; a authentic and generally |
x samples of antebellum: song,cook-

 

 

 
 
  
 

he ‘time . when bright,

  

sad

   
 
 
  
  
 

mito be there +

   

 

 
   

to the time when bright, —
degrees at our _belov ed in-

| Nashville Tenn.

damages’ were similar. It shocks metoread of 4x
the considerable i injury inflicted upon the — t

ing, and architecture. And more. Much more.
From all of this I have concluded (1) In-
ua excitement reduces adipose; (2)
Education may be wasted on the young; s @)
WAL is sil that oasis of thought and sanity

 
 

 

 
     
 
  

“session of last summer’ s
ge. Like all Alumni ee
> was Coeaucational—- Ed. Hy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This Summer
Take A Vacation
With An Idea

 

 

 

The W&L Alumni College

June 24-30:
Society and the Media

July 8-14:
Scientific Frontiers

July 29-August 4:
The Renaissance in England

For further information, contact:
Dr. Robert Fure —
Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-9111 Ext. 290

The Alumni Magazine of At Lexington, Virginia 24450
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

Ce

037556

RALSTON RD

Ties That Bind

(See Page 2)

MR DANIEL T BALFOUR

211
RICHMOND VA

23229

 

Cpls hb

 

 

