 

ue
<< *
%

ETS

 

WCET V4

l

 

 

 

 

November/December 1985

UOT
~~ of Washington and Lee

 

 

 

 

‘
ei 7
- P .
{; f ea i: . ~ Py
3 is 5 =
, : i a
- ~ 4
. L = — 7 . = =
. = . = ” , a - an . ae _ = » ;
se By ts 3 2 si aad a taal in Go — ee eet a al iia ik 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ashington and Lee has received a $2.75 million bequest
from the estate of Mr. and Mrs. John H. Tucker jr.

Tucker, a 1910 graduate of the University, died May 22,
1984. His wife, Hortense Rigby Tucker, died Jan. 16, 1984.

To honor the bequest, the University has designated the
faculty library in the School of Law the Hortense Rigby and
John H. Tucker jr. Faculty Law Library.

In addition, the Tuckers’ names have been inscribed on the
Benefactors’ Wall in Washington Hall, where donors who have
made gifts of $1 million or more to the University are recogniz-
ed. Robert Parker Doremus was Washington and Lee’s first
million-dollar donor. With the addition of the Tuckers’ gift,
17 such benefactions have now been made to the University.

‘‘Mr. and Mrs. Tucker’s lifelong devotion to Washington
and Lee and their abiding interest in education will be per-
manently memorialized through their magnificent gift,’’ Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said of the bequest. ‘‘We are grateful
beyond measure for their lives and for the benefit their bequest
will bring for future generations of students and teachers.’’

Tucker was born Feb. 25, 1891, in Pine Bluff, Ark. At
Washington and Lee he was a member of the Albert Sidney Boat
Club, the Student Committee, and Sigma Nu. He received the
bachelor of arts degree from the University.

He served with the U.S. Army on the Mexican border in
1916 and served during World War I as aide-de-camp to Gen.
W.P. Richardson in France and northern Russia. He was recall-
ed to service in World War II, when he earned the mark of col-
onel. He retired from the Army in 1951.

After receiving his law degree from Louisiana State Univer-
sity in 1920, he began practicing law with the firm of Smither-
man and Tucker. At the time of his death he was the senior
partner of Tucker, Jeter & Jackson in Shreveport.

Tucker married Hortense Rigby, a native of Mansfield,
Ohio, in 1924.

One of Tucker’s greatest contributions was founding the
Louisiana State Law Institute in 1938. The institute made possi-
ble modernization of the state’s civil code and served as a model
for law reform throughout the United States. It worked to
modernize civil procedure and codify criminal law.

Tucker served as president of the institute from its found
ing until 1965 when he became its first chairman. At the time
of his death he had been named ‘‘Animateur’”’ of the institute,
an office that had been designed specifically for him. T. Haller
Jackson Jr., ’48, president of the institute and one of Tucker’s
law partners, explained that the French term referred to ‘‘a per-
son who animates an enterprise or an organization by his ar-
dor and his spirit.’’

Tucker was also known for a variety of other contributions
to the law, including several important cases he handled. He
was considered one of the world’s authorities on the Napoleonic
Code, the body of French civil law enacted in 1804, which was
a model for the civil codes of many countries.

He was a member of the Supreme Court Committee on Pro-
fessional Ethics and Grievances from 1934 to 1937. He was the
author of Source Books of Louisiana Law. He addressed many
groups and was a visiting lecturer at Tulane University from
1959 through 1961.

 

Hortense Rigby Tucker

John H. Tucker jr.

He served on numerous civic boards in Shreveport and was
a trustee of the First Presbyterian Church of Shreveport. He
was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, the Order of the Coif,
Phi Beta Kappa, and Phi Delta Phi.

Tucker was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree from
Washington and Lee in 1958. He also received honorary degrees
from Louisiana State University, Tulane University, Loyola
University, and Centenary College of Louisiana. He was award-
ed the French Legion of Honor in 1956. He received the Hat-
ton W. Sumners Award in 1958 for outstanding service.

On the occasion of his 80th birthday, the annual Tucker
Civil Law Lecture was established in his honor at the Louisiana
State University law school.

During memorial exercises for Tucker in the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, Haller Jackson said of his colleague: ‘‘Col.
Tucker’s participation in the (Louisiana State Law) Institute
and its work was prompted by his desire to improve and moder-
nize the civil law of Louisiana. His ambitions were supported
by a foundation of religious faith, unshakeable integrity, in-
quisitiveness, scholarship, perseverance, physical energy, all il-
luminated by an unusual intellect and perception.”’

Jackson continued: ‘‘Out of his inquisitiveness came his use
and love of books and a resulting scholarship that contributed
to the success of the institute. . . When he began the practice
of law, he began collecting a personal law library which (came
to be) recognized as one of the finest private collections in the
United States. He was not a mere book collector. He was a
serious scholar of the law, he loved his civil law library, and
he used it almost daily.”’

Tucker donated his personal library, which came to number
some 12,000 volumes, to the law school at Louisiana State
University, where it is designated the Tucker Civil Law
Collection.

Another of Tucker’s partners, Robert McLean Jeter, ’41,
noted that the naming of Washington and Lee’s law faculty
library in the Tuckers’ honor was a particularly appropriate
memorial. ‘‘I am certain that Mr. and Mrs. Tucker would be
gratified and complimented by this action on the part of the
University,’’ said Jeter. ‘Mr. Tucker was extremely interested
in books and the development of libraries. . . . The dedication
of the law school faculty library is a fitting tribute to their
memory.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
.
-
-
-
: .
. -
7 .
- .
.
-
an .
-
=
. - -
oe
.
- -
’
.
~ -
=
so :
- . +
:
.
- .
. - :
- - .
: .
s 7
a
a
7 —
.
: - : - 7. a
. 2 - 7s
- i wo
- - 7

 

 

eS

Re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nobel
Prize

Dr. Joseph Goldstein, 63,
Honored For Medical Research

by Jeffery G. Hanna

ALLAS—A late afternoon rainstorm was poised on the
Dallas horizon by the time Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, ’62, ap-
peared in the doorway of the auditorium at the University of
Texas Health Science Center.

Goldstein had barely set foot in the room when the army
of photographers spotted him and began snapping and
flashing away, creating a dazzling display of man-made
lightning.

Moments later Goldstein’s colleague, Dr. Michael Brown,
entered the room, and the firestorm of flashes intensified. The
photographers pressed forward, and Goldstein and Brown
retreated to the steps leading to the stage.

As the two doctors stood there, patiently posing and stead-
fastly smiling for the photographers, the audience of about
500—an odd assortment of media and medical students, doc-
tors and medical school professors—rose together to applaud.

It had been more than 11 hours since the phone had rung
shortly before 7 a.m. in Goldstein’s Boston hotel room. Half
a world away the Nobel Assembly at Stockholm’s Karolinska
Institute had announced that the 1985 Nobel Prize for
Medicine had been awarded to Goldstein and Brown for their
revolutionary research on the role of cholesterol in heart
disease—research that has allowed scientists to understand
what Goldstein describes as ‘‘the mechanism through which
diet and exercise can help prevent a heart attack.’’

When the Nobel Assembly’s decision was announced, the
two doctors were attending a conference at Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology. Fittingly, their research had provided
the keynote speech for that conference the night before. Back
in front of the same audience the next morning, they uncork-
ed champagne and held a news conference with the Boston
media before hurrying to the airport to board a plane back
home to Dallas and the University of Texas Health Science
Center where they had made the first in their series of
remarkable discoveries 13 years ago.

2 W&L

 

Now they were seated side by side on the stage, listening to
a series of speakers—from the medical center’s president to
the mayor of Dallas—heap praise upon them and their work.

Once those preliminaries were over, Goldstein and Brown
stepped to the lectern and received another standing ovation.

A beaming Goldstein began: ‘‘I’d like to say that I think
Dallas is known to the outside world for the Dallas Cowboys,
Neiman Marcus, and the television program Dallas. And I
think now we should add the University of Texas Health
Science Center at Dallas.’’

Then Brown and Goldstein took turns at the microphone.
They shared credit with their colleagues. They explained how
they had managed to work together so productively and har-
moniously. And they tried to sum up 13 years of landmark
research in five minutes while using language laymen might
comprehend.

When the formal news conference ended, Goldstein was
cornered by reporters and asked to recreate his initial reaction
to the early morning telephone call.

“‘It was,’’ he said, ‘‘exciting and thrilling and very
surprising.’’

Exciting and thrilling? Certainly. Surprising?

‘‘The only really surprising part,’’ says Daniel Markstein
III, °63, who roomed with Goldstein at Washington and Lee,
‘‘was that it took the Nobel Committee so long to confirm
what all of us have known for about 25 years.”’

hen Joseph Leonard Goldstein of Kingstree, S.C., ap-

plied for admission to Washington and Lee in 1958, one of
his references, John F. McFadden, ’36, concluded a glowing
letter of recommendation with this prophetic pronouncement:

‘I, personally, feel that this young man will someday be a
credit to Washington and Lee if he is admitted.’’

Twenty-seven years later that prediction, accurate though it
might be, seems a woefully inadequate way to describe

Washington and Lee’s first
Nobel laureate. To be sure,
Goldstein immediately assumes a
special place in the University’s
history. And yet, it seems clear
that he had already occupied a
fairly prominent place long
before the Nobel Committee
recognized the Goldstein-Brown
collaboration this October.

Consider this thumbnail
sketch of Goldstein’s W&L
career: he compiled a perfect 4.0
average as a premed student and
was the valedictorian of his
class; he was Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, Who’s
Who, and Phi Eta Sigma; he
was a member of Alpha Epsilon
Delta, secretary of the Publica-
tions Board, secretary of the
Zeta Beta Tau social fraternity,
and secretary-treasurer of the
Student Library Committee; he
won the freshman chemistry
award and the Phi Beta Kappa
sophomore award; he was
editor-in-chief of The Calyx.

Perhaps that explains why so
many of his W&L professors
and classmates, like Markstein,
have not been terribly surprised by Goldstein’s success.

‘‘T had no inkling that a former student of ours was about
to win a Nobel Prize,’’ says James Starling, retired former
head of the department of biology. ‘‘But when it did happen,
it didn’t surprise me in the least that it was Joe.”’

Adds Edward Holmes, ’63, himself a professor of medicine
at Duke University and one who has kept abreast of the work
of Goldstein and Brown: ‘‘I think it is fairly easy to say that
Joe had the potential even back then [as an undergraduate] to
do something special. I haven’t been surprised at anything that
he has accomplished. As someone else has suggested, Joe’s
synapses open and close faster than those of most other
people.’’

In the immediate aftermath of the Nobel announcement,
stories of Goldstein’s undergraduate days were making the
rounds—the time he got a 99 on an organic chemistry test and
the next highest grade was 66, for instance; the way he jug-
gled a full schedule of academic and extracurricular respon-
sibilities and still managed to organize a nightly bridge game,
for another; the fact that the only B on his transcript came in
a physical education class, which did not count in his grade-
point average.

All the stories and all the storytellers are consistent in the
picture they paint of a student who clearly excelled in the
demanding premedical regimen but still managed to take full
advantage of everything a college education offered.

‘‘The one impression that I want to convey about Joe
Goldstein,’’ says Markstein, ‘‘is that here is a fellow who is
obviously very gifted, but he is certainly not a one-
dimensional person. He enjoyed the arts. He enjoyed good
food, good wine, and good times. It really is a great delight to
see someone like that succeed the way he has.”’

 

 

Goldstein addresses Dallas news conference.

By today’s standards, Gold-
stein’s ability to participate in so
many diverse activities and still
make straight A’s as a premed
student would be rare, indeed.
And yet, measured against the
premed students of his era, it is
clear that Goldstein was more
the rule than the exception.

‘*T don’t know how it is for
premed students there now,”’
says Holmes. ‘‘But when we
were in school at W&L, most of
the premed students were involv-
ed in a number of other ac-
tivities. The difference in Joe’s
case was not that he was involv-
ed in so many things, but that
he did them all so much better
than anybody else.’’

Adds Markstein: ‘‘The most
remarkable thing about Joe was
his ability to organize, whether
it was his work on the Calyx or
preparation for an examination.
He was always able to order his
obligations and his time so that
he was able to complete his
tasks efficiently, get enormously
well-prepared, and leave a lot of
time for the things he really
enjoyed—playing duplicate bridge in Buena Vista, for in-
stance, or the nightly midnight bridge games that he held in
his apartment.”’

The diversity of his interests and his talents, say Gold-
stein’s professors, was not limited to his extracurricular ac-
tivities, either. He took numerous liberal arts courses and was
as successful in those as he was in the laboratories. Naturally,
that is a particular source of pride to professors who are
dedicated to the value of a liberal arts background.

‘‘You must remember that in those days the curriculum
was different from what it is now in that there were more
general education courses required,’’ says William J. Watt,
professor of chemistry. ‘‘One of the ideas that was current at
that time was that premed students ought to be given the
broadest possible curriculum. It is an idea that is coming back
into vogue now.”’

One of Watt’s colleagues in the chemistry department,
Keith Shillington, seconds the notion that a liberal arts
background is a vital component in a solid premed prepara-
tion: ‘‘The imagination is trained in a great many ways and
not necessarily in the ways you’re ultimately going to use it.
You may well train your imagination in some other way com-
pletely, but the ideas ooze over.”’

Those ideas that trigger the imagination of a premed stu-
dent can, Shillington would argue, ooze from such an unlikely
source as, say, Victorian poetry. Sidney M. B. Coulling, the
S. Blount Mason Professor of English, remembers having
Goldstein in just such a class.

‘‘It was the spring semester of his junior year,’’ says
Coulling, ‘‘and I have looked back in my records to find that
his work all across the board was A work. This was an upper
division course in Victorian poetry, and I think we ought to

>

W&L 3

og “He was a serious-
minded student, but
he was not a pedant.
He was not a person
who isolated
himself. ’’

 

Goldstein in 1962

keep in mind that there was no pass/fail option in those days.
He took the course for credit and was competing with senior
English majors on a graded basis.

‘*There was no challenge that was too great for Joe. He
was a Serious-minded student, but he was not a pedant. He
was not a person who isolated himself. He was a good all-
around student.’’

Shillington, who has taught premed students organic
chemistry for more than 30 years, remembers Goldstein as
‘‘very bright and intense.’’

Adds Markstein: ‘‘He was always not obviously com-
petitive, but he was bound and determined that nobody was
going to be ahead of him. Particularly did that trait manifest
itself in organic chemistry.’’

Other of Goldstein’s professors and classmates have similar
stories to tell about his undergraduate career. One of those
stories has particular meaning to the Nobel Prize, though. It is
told by L. Randlett Emmons, professor of biology.

‘“*Joe Goldstein’s last year here as a student was my first
year,’’ recalls Emmons. ‘‘In the fall of that year Scientific
American devoted an entire issue to reporting new research
that had been conducted about the cell.

*‘Not long after that magazine came out, Joe and Herb
Salomon, a classmate and close friend, appeared in my office
one day and asked whether I would be willing to sit down
with the two of them once a week and discuss the material
that had been in that article. So we arranged a special
seminar, just the three of us. Something like that has never
happened to me since, two students asking for such a class.

‘‘Joe was extraordinary. I was just out of graduate school
myself, so I tended to look upon him and Herb more as peers
than as an old professor looking down on these young kids.
Joe made a profound impression on me and has been on the
tip of my tongue in the 25 years since he left here since I am
constantly using him as an example of the ‘good old days.’ I
know they were excited down in Dallas when the Nobel was
announced, but they wouldn’t have been much more thrilled
than I was or we were.”’

oe Goldstein remembers that his interest in the University
was initiated by ‘‘a friend who had relatives who had gone to
Washington and Lee.’’

4 W&L

—Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling
Professor of English

 

Goldstein in 1985

‘*T was interested in premed, and the premed program was
pretty strong, so I interviewed there and thought it was a
good place to go.”’

Looking back on his undergraduate career from the heights
of a Nobel Prize in Medicine, Goldstein finds that his
memories of the courses he took in English and history and
economics and French and German are as vivid as his
memories of the strictly premed courses.

‘‘There are a lot of people that I remember as being
outstanding in the liberal arts at Washington and Lee. Three
who come to mind most quickly are professors Coulling in
English, (William) Jenks in history, and (Charles) Phillips in
economics,’’ Goldstein said in an interview following the
Nobel Prize announcement.

‘**T probably took as many of the traditional liberal arts
courses as I did premed courses. They were especially
stimulating. Had I gone to another institution that was not
oriented so strongly toward the liberal arts, I think I probably
still would have tended to take such courses. I think it is very
important to have a blend. Premedical students should, I
think, have as liberal an education as possible.’’

It is interesting to note that the 1962 Calyx, the edition
that Goldstein edited, was dedicated to Coulling and Phillips
and that the dedication begins: ‘‘Just as the Washington and
Lee Swing has represented the progressive course that our
University has pursued during the past few years, so have two
of the younger members of the Faculty become symbolic of
this pervading attitude.”’

As for the premed curriculum, Goldstein recognizes how
much different it was in comparison with the kind of courses
that are included now.

**In those days biochemistry wasn’t taught, and there was
not a lot in genetics,’’ he said. ‘‘There were the traditional
courses in organic and inorganic chemistry, and I remember
those as being very solid. Today things are so different. We
have high school students working in our laboratories during
the summers.”’

By constrast, Goldstein did not participate in research dur-
ing his undergraduate days. ‘‘Those opportunities simply were
not available at that time,’’ he said.

In fact, the Robert E. Lee Undergraduate Research Pro-
gram at W&L began a year after Goldstein graduated.

 

 

@

into this interns ip.

= then I _ io. oo iin

of fai no great

 

 

orking together in their Dallas
laboratory in 1972, Drs. Joseph L. Gold-
stein, 63, and Michael Brown discovered
a complex molecule that has been describ-
ed variously as ‘‘gatekeeper,’’ ‘‘door-
man,’’ and ‘‘border patrol’’ which acts
to recognize and admit cholesterol into
the body’s cells.

Cholesterol has received considerable
publicity in recent years—none of it
positive. A waxy alcohol that is soluble
in fat but not water, cholesterol is actually
essential to life since it is the primary in-
gredient of cell membranes, steroid hor-
mones, and bile acids. There are two main
sources of cholesterol for the body: it is
produced in the liver and it enters the
body through fat in food. Once in the
body, cholesterol is transported through
the blood and lymphatic fluid in lipopro-
teins, a combination of fat and protein.
One particular lipoprotein, LDL or low-
density lipoprotein, is chiefly responsible
for carrying cholesterol.

While they were studying tissue
cultures of human skin cells called
fibroblasts, Goldstein and Brown iden-
tified the presence of highly specific pro-
tein molecules on the surface of cells—
cell-surface receptors—that recognize the
LDL particles in the blood, bind to those
particles, and admit them to the cells.
Once in the cell, the lipoproteins are
broken down and the cholesterol is freed
for the cell’s use.

Cholesterol becomes a problem when
the receptors do not do their work ade-
quately, either because of an inherited
genetic condition in which the body has
too few LDL receptors or when a person’s
diet contains too many saturated fats and
thereby causes the liver cells to produce
too few LDL receptors.

With an inadequate number of LDL
receptors, cells are not able to collect the
LDL particles which remain in the blood
stream and collect to create a plaque on
artery walls, eventually clogging the artery
and causing a heart attack or a stroke.

**The first thing our work has done,”’
explained Goldstein at the Nobel Prize
news conference in October, ‘‘is identify
a single molecule, one protein, that you
can actually isolate in a test tube and you
can clone the gene, and one knows it ex-
ists. It is that single molecule that is ac-
tually very important in determining
whether one has low cholesterol levels
(which would be good) or high cholesterol
levels (which would be bad).

*‘Once one knows that one has this
molecule, then one can begin to study the

W&L

Living
To Enjoy
Your
Steak
(And

Eggs)

factors that make it go up and down,
whether that is drugs, diet, hormones, any
number of things. That will be the long-
term practical effects of this work.’’

The work has already had practical ef-
fects. The most famous of those involves
a young Texas girl who suffered from
familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), the
genetic defect in which one is born with
fewer LDL receptors than normal.

Stormie Jones was six years old when
she was diagnosed as suffering from the
severest form of FH, which had left her
arteries clogged and caused her to have
two major heart attacks.

On the advice of Goldstein, Brown,
and their colleagues at the University of
Texas Health Science Center in Dallas,
the child was given a new heart and liver
in an operation conducted in Pittsburgh.
Unlike Stormie’s liver which was in-
capable because of her genetic deficien-
cy to produce LDL receptors, the donor
liver provided her with 60 to 65 percent
of the necessary receptors. When the
Nobel Prize was announced in October,
Stormie Jones, now 8, came from her
home in Cumby, Texas, to Dallas to pro-
vide a living testimony to the scientists’
work.

Stormie Jones, whose blood
cholesterol level was 1,200 before her new
liver and medication cut it to a normal
level of between 180 to 200, is a classic
genetic case. But in recent writings,
Brown has pointed out that ‘‘more than
half of all people in Western, industrializ-
ed countries, including the United States,
have levels of circulating LDL that are
above the threshold at which
atherosclerosis (the gradual clogging of
arteries and other blood vessels with
cholesterol) is accelerated.’’

And the cholesterol problem for most
Americans is not genetic but has more to
do with dietary habits.

In a lecture given not long before the
Nobel Prize, Brown suggested that Stor-
mie Jones and James Fixx, the author of
best-selling books on running who died
of a heart attack, suffered from the same
problem—i.e., a deficiency in the number
of LDL receptors.

The difference between Stormie Jones
and James Fixx, Brown noted, was that
the former’s problem was genetic while
the latter acquired the deficiency through
life style and eating habits.

‘“‘The beauty of this research,”’ says
Edward Holmes, ’63, a professor of
medicine at Duke University, ‘‘is that it
involves one of the most common
hereditary diseases in the world—familial
hypercholesterolemia. It is not an inciden-
tal abnormality.

*“What they have done is define how
a complex system works by using pa-
tients. In addition to identifying the way
in which cholesterol is carried in the
blood, they have opened up a brand new
area of receptor biology in which we are
learning how cells communicate. They are
the movers and shakers in that whole
field.”’

But it is still their study of cholesterol
that has put Goldstein and Brown in the
fore.

A year ago the two scientists wrote an
article about their work for Scientific
American. In it they endorsed as ‘‘pru-
dent’’ a diet ‘‘moderately low in animal
fats.’ But they also suggested that
‘“‘therapy with drugs that increase the
number of LDL receptors may turn out
to be appropriate for some people who
do not have FH but in whom the number
of receptors is reduced by diet or other
factors.’”’

If they are shown to be effective and
safe, such drugs, wrote Goldstein and
Brown, ‘‘may one day make it possible
for many people to have their steak and
live to enjoy it too.’’

context which was
difficult: they made
rounds; they saw pa-
tients; they taught
students. And at the
same time, the work
developed.’’

As the research
unfolded and began
to have ever wider
implications, not
just to their study of
FH but to the very
nature of how cells
work, the two scien-
tists were dubbed
**the gold dust
twins’’—they clearly
had the Midas
touch. The list of
awards given for
their research was as
lengthy as it was im-
pressive even before
the Nobel Prize—the
scientific communi-
ty’s most prestigious
honor and one that
carries with it a gold
medal, a diploma,
and 1.8 million
Swedish kronor
(about $225,000).

As remarkable as
the scope and im-
portance of the
Goldstein-Brown research is the way in which the two scien-
tists have worked so closely and productively for the past 13
years. It is, one colleague has suggested, a synergistic relation-
ship. ‘‘It’s like Gilbert and Sullivan, Lerner and Lowe,”’
Fenley, the medical information director, told a Dallas
newspaper. ‘‘They precisely complement one another.’’

Explained Goldstein of the relationship: ‘‘We have tremen-
dous respect for each other’s opinion and intellect. Although
we argue about how to do an experiment, whether you add a
tris buffer or a phosphate buffer, those things turn out to be
trivial. We made this discovery simultaneously, and it was an
exciting discovery, and we’ve been sort of committed to work-
ing it out—an intellectual dessert, so to speak.’’

A feature article in the Dallas Times-Herald in 1978 pro-
vided this analysis of the relationship: ‘‘Goldstein, the
geneticist, is described as a walking encyclopedia, a vacuum
cleaner scooping up scientific information as fast as he finds
it. He’s always buzzing with ideas. Brown, the biochemist, is
more focused and analytical, able to select the best way to
solve a problem.”’

Whenever his colleagues talk about Goldstein, they never
fail to mention his dedication to his work. Holmes, the Duke
medical school professor who was a year behind Goldstein at
W&L, says that ‘‘by everybody’s account, Joe is the most
committed scientist around. He lives and breathes his work. In
addition, he brings the very highest aptitude to that. He ab-
solutely has excelled at every point in his career.’’

 

Goldstein (right) and research partner Michael Brown

That helps to ex-
plain why all the
honors and awards
that the team has
received, including
the Nobel Prize,
have been something
of a mixed blessing.
Both Goldstein and
Brown are, by
nature, private peo-
ple. The notoriety of
their work has re-
quired them to be
more visible in the
scientific community
than they probably
would prefer.

‘We feel an
obligation to the
school to use this
(the Nobel Prize) for
publicity purposes,”’
said Goldstein. ‘‘But
if we were to permit
it, we would literally
be run to death.
Everybody would
like you to speak
here and there. Even
before this it has
been difficult to
maintain the intensi-
ty of our research
and still deliver lec-
tures and speeches.
This means we’ll have to say ‘No’ more often.’’

Whatever the underlying source of the effectiveness that
Brown and Goldstein have as a team, it is clearly the sort of
collaboration that you would expect to produce Nobel Prize
work.

And it’s clear that, even after they have officially received
the Nobel Prize on Dec. 10 in Stockholm, the two scientists
will certainly not be willing to rest on their lofty laurels.

‘“‘We’re only at the stage now where we know that a
molecule called a receptor exists and controls the blood
cholesterol level,’’ explained Goldstein. ‘‘We have been able to
study the molecule in animals. We know how to make it go
up and down in animals.

‘*The future will be to try to understand how one can
regulate or make this molecule go up and down in humans
with the ultimate hope that by learning more about the factors
that regulate this molecule, one would be able ultimately to
delay the onset of atherosclerosis or heart attack.’’

Back in October as the Nobel news conference was ending
and the rainstorm was beginning to dampen a darkening
Dallas, someone asked Goldstein what he planned to do
tomorrow, the day after the Nobel Prize had been won.

Said Goldstein: ‘‘Tomorrow should be a day like any other
day. We’ll get back to the laboratory, back to what we’re
doing.’’

Then he paused, smiled, and added: ‘‘Actually, I suppose
tomorrow will be a bit different.”’

W&L 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1e Outermost

7
7

 

 

altitude of about 50 degrees. The comet will move with the
stars to the western horizon at about 15 degrees per hour and
will set about midnight in the direction west-southwest. The
tail of the comet will be quite short.

While you are freezing in the dark, you might also note
Jupiter, which sets at about 8:30 p.m. and will be a brilliant
‘‘star’’ in the southwest. With steady binoculars you should be
able to see the famous four Galilean moons of Jupiter,
discovered by Galileo when he first turned a telescope to the
sky about 1610. These moons change their position rapidly
about the planet from night to night. A second object to look
for is the lovely open cluster of stars known as the Pleiades,
located due south at about 10 p.m. (south-southeast before
then). Through a pair of binoculars, the Pleiades form what
has been called ‘‘the littlest dipper’’ to distinguish them from
the more well-known Big and Little Dippers in the very nor-
thern sky (Ursa Major and Ursa Minor). The conspicuous
winter constellation Orion will appear to the southeast.

JANUARY
(New Moon—January 10)

Probably the best chance for those of us located in the
northern hemisphere to see the comet with the naked eye will
occur during the first two weeks of this month. Look
southwest at the end of twilight or about 6:30 p.m. The comet
will be at an altitude of about 30 degrees in the constellation
Aquarius. The comet sets at 9:30 on the first of the month
but sets at 7:30 by Jan. 15. The tail of the comet will be short
and pointing up as twilight ends. Jupiter will be low in the
southwest with the Pleiades toward the south. In the early
evening of Jan. 12, both Halley and Jupiter will be near the

Physics pro-
fessor Ronald
Reese (left) and
Robert E. Lee
Research
Scholars Barry
Miller (center)
and David
Vaughn prepare
to photograph
Comet Halley in
the W&L
observatory.

waxing crescent moon. Orion will be to the left of the
Pleiades.

FEBRUARY

Throughout this month, the comet will be too close to the
sun to be seen.

MARCH
(New Moon—March 10)

Prepare to get up before the birds—the comet will now be
visible in the early morning. Look low in the southeast before
5 a.m. when morning twilight begins. The comet will be at on-
ly a 10-degree altitude but the tail may be longer than it was
in January. By March 7, look left of the Teapot of Sagit-
tarius. Saturn will be visible in the east-southeast above the
comet and the reddish, bright star Antares in Scorpius. Mars
will be below and to the east of Saturn and will be reddish in
color.

APRIL
(New Moon—April 9)

Unless the tail of the comet is very long and bright, it will
be difficult to see the comet this month. But if it is visible, it
will again be an early morning object. Look between 2 a.m.
and 4 a.m. very low in the southern sky. The head of the
comet may even be below the horizon with just the tail
streaming up for you to glimpse. Unobstructed southern
horizons are a must, with clear skies and little ground haze.
Both Saturn and Mars will again be visible. Saturn will be
almost due south at an altitude of about 30 degrees with Mars
to the southeast and at a lower altitude.

W&L 9

 

Conference participants (from left) Harlan Beckley of Washington and Lee; Robert N. Bellah of California-Berkeley; John P. Reeder Jr. of Brown

University; Elmer Johnson of General Motors Corp.; Gordon Kaufman of Harvard University Divinity School; John Howard Yoder of Notre
Dame; James M. Gustafson of the University of Chicago; Mary Midgley of the University of Newcastle; Edward Farley of Vanderbilt Divinity
School; Robert Audi of the University of Nebraska; and John Elrod of Washington and Lee.

Theocentric Ethics

W&L Hosts Major Conference on a New Theory of Theological Ethics

by Anne Coulling

ore than 180 theologians, philosophers, ministers,
sociologists, and other interested individuals from throughout
the United States, Canada, and abroad descended on the
Washington and Lee campus in late September to discuss what
is likely to be regarded as one of the most important works on
theological ethics in this century.

During the three-day symposium, eminent scholars from a
variety of disciplines presented their particular assessments of
Ethics from a Theocentric Perspective, a two-volume work by
University of Chicago theological ethicist James M.

Gustafson.

According to Harlan Beckley, associate professor of
religion at Washington and Lee and a principal organizer of
the conference, Gustafson’s proposal represents ‘‘a radical
departure from the dominant theologies and ethics of our
time. He calls for a reorientation of human life away from a
human-centered religious and moral life to a way of life that
consents to the larger purposes of God.’’

The topic was important; the speakers represented the very
best in their respective fields. But what made the conference at

10 W&L

least uncommon, if not unique, was that the author himself
was in the audience to hear assessments of his work, which
came in the form of both prepared lectures and lively discus-
sions that followed those lectures.

One of the speakers, Robert N. Bellah, Ford Professor of
Sociology and Comparative Studies at the University of
California at Berkeley, put the unusual nature of the sym-
posium in perspective when he began his lecture in the Moot
Court Room of Lewis Hall by saying:

‘fAs the sessions and days begin to accumulate, I can’t
help thinking what it must be like to be Jim Gustafson. On
the one hand, it is an enormous honor to have so large and
distinguished a group of people gathered together to discuss
one’s work. On the other hand, we sit in a quasi-courtroom
with three spectral judges [occupying the empty judges’
chairs]. Or, to switch metaphors, I cannot help but think that
Jim is some kind of sacrificial victim at a high and extended
academic ritual.’’

On the third and final day, however, Gustafson had his

 

say. He responded to the speeches that had gone before,
defending and explaining his positions on some points but also
pointing to the directions theology and ethics might take after
his book.

Following his formal presentation, Gustafson participated
in a panel discussion that concluded in an electric moment
when Paul Ramsey of Princeton University, himself a
theological ethicist of note, directed a pointed and quite per-
sonal question to Gustafson—asking him, in effect, why his
theology had abandoned so much that is central to the Chris-
tian tradition.

Gustafson then delivered one of the most moving sermons
many in the audience had ever heard, explaining with obvious
emotion what had led him to reject
those traditional Christian beliefs
that characterize God as serving
human interests.

Said Gustafson: ‘‘I think the
tradition has sold people short. It
has led them to expect things in the
primary language of the tradition
that fail over and over again.
[T]here are experiences of suffering
in the world, and the traditional
religious language has a way of just
putting syrup over that stuff and
not suffering with the suffering and
not being in pain with those who
are in pain.”’

Gustafson, for whom God’s
purposes are larger than fulfilling
human interests, concluded: ‘‘I am
not only concerned with the re-
symbolization of Christianity, so
that these traditional symbols can
be made more meaningful. I am
concerned that we recognize a cer-
tain kind of authenticity of
religious sensibility and moral pro-
fundity and sensitivity [among
those who do not consent to the
tradition]. And [I am concerned]
that at least some of us
[theologians] find a way of
talking to that, of nurturing that. . . and of not building bar-
riers which are not essential, in my judgment, to the ultimate
thing that life is about, which is not preserving the tradition,
but is the service of God.”’

Rarely does a scholarly symposium attain such a moment
of high drama.

It was, in part, that emotional exchange that led the sym-
posium’s final speaker, Elmer W. Johnson, a vice president of
the General Motors Company and a close friend of Gustafson,
to describe the proceedings as ‘‘the most exhilarating, intellec-
tual stretching symposium I have ever attended. . .”’

Certainly the dramatic conclusion was a high point. But it
was the combination of the symposium’s format and the
quality of the speakers that led so many of the participants to
praise it as one of the most meaningful events they had ever
attended.

Beckley had conceived of such a conference three years
earlier while he was on sabbatical leave at the University of
Chicago.

ig

 

Gustafson presents his response.

‘‘The first volume of Ethics from a Theocentric Perspec-
tive had just been published when I was at Chicago,”’’ said
Beckley, ‘‘and it seemed to me that this was the first com-
prehensive work in theological ethics by a mature scholar since
Reinhold Niebuhr’s The Nature and Destiny of Man in the
mid-1940s. Since this is the sort of work that comes along on-
ly every fourth decade or so and has the potential for lasting
significance, it clearly requires careful scrutiny.”’

Gustafson’s work is so sweeping in scope that it touches
several other disciplines. Consequently, Beckley designed the
conference to be interdisciplinary in nature, incorporating the
fields of ethics, theology, philosophy of religion, philosophy
of science, and sociology.

‘‘We wanted to bring represen-
tatives of these fields together to
get their perspectives,’’ said
Beckley. ‘‘But we also wanted to
use Gustafson’s book as a ‘ben-
chmark’ or base from which
scholars could study and discuss
the entire subject of theological
ethics.”’

The speakers were all leading
scholars in their respective fields.
In addition to Bellah and Johnson,
papers were presented by Robert
Audi, professor of philosophy at
the University of Nebraska; Ed-
ward Farley, professor of theology
at Vanderbilt University Divinity
School; Robert O. Johann, chair-
man of the department of
philosophy at Fordham University;
Gordon O. Kaufman, professor of
theology at the Harvard University
Divinity School; Mary Midgley,
retired senior lecturer in philosophy
at the University of Newcastle in
Great Britain; John P. Reeder Jr.,
chairman of the department of
religious studies at Brown Universi-
ty; and John Howard Yoder, who
teaches theology and ethics at the
University of Notre Dame.

Much of the funding for the symposium was provided by
the Philip Fullerton Howerton Fund for Special Programs in
the Department of Religion. The Howerton Fund was
established in 1973 by Mrs. Philip Howerton in memory of
her late husband.

The conference was co-sponsored by The Institute for the
Advanced Study of Religion at the University of Chicago
Divinity School.

‘‘The project was a major success from every standpoint,’’
said Beckley. ‘‘Important people in ethics and theology came
to Lexington to talk with each other about an important
book, and I think they left not only with a positive experience
about the conference but, we hope, with some appreciation
for Washington and Lee as a place where an event such as
this can be undertaken with considerable success.’’

Beckley and Charles M. Swezey, ’57, a professor of ethics
at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, are currently in-
volved in negotiations to have the papers from the symposium
published.

 

 

 

WkL ii

 

 

 

 

 

 

of one of the
| learning—h

 

woe

Saeet
rd

oS

a
ett tee wmes
Oo

 

CA

AY,

  

l/l

In the forefront of planning Washington and Lee’s cognitive studies program are (from left)

 

 

David G. Elmes of the psychology department, Ramsey Martin of the philosophy department,
and Kenneth Lambert of the computer science department.

studies, for instance, Jarrard’s continuing
research into the function of the
hippocampus—a primitive brain structure
implicated in memory function—could be
related to Elmes’ research into the effect
of moods on student study habits or to
Pemberton’s studies of Plato’s dialogues.
In addition to the obvious intellectual
benefits of the program, cognitive studies
carries a practical application. ‘‘The ‘life

of the mind’ serves as a metaphor for
liberal learning,’’ the two professors say,
*‘but just as important, the life of the
mind governs our mundane affairs.
‘‘Disorders of language, memory, or
reading are devastating because they can
disrupt leisure and work as well as in-
tellectual pursuits. Many aspects of
cognitive studies address such problems,
and many students of a practical bent,

such as budding clinical psychologists and
premedical students, find them of par-
ticular interest.”’

Another area in which cognitive
studies will have practical application is
artificial intelligence. Elmes and Martin
say ‘‘expert systems’’—such as MYCIN,
the computer program that assists physi-
cians in diagnosing diseases—are a facet
of artificial intelligence that represent
‘fan important contribution to society.
These applications of cognitive science
have worked in a synergistic way with
basic cognitive studies.”’

The importance of the new field was
underscored recently in an article in The
Chronicle of Higher Education in which
psychologist Robert Perloff wrote: ‘‘One
area that has turned departments of
psychology around 180 degrees is
cognitive science and artificial in-
telligence. Cognitive science has put the
mind and head back into the legitimate
purview of psychology: How do we
analyze problems? Which solutions are
effective? Which are ineffective? That
has tremendous implications for how
children learn, how to prepare textbooks,
how to correct learning disabilities.’’

At the outset, the cognitive studies
program will be made up of relevant
courses that are currently available to
students. The departments of psychology,
computer science, classics, and perhaps
sociology/anthropology will identify the
cognitive studies courses in both the
lower and upper levels. The first year will
be ‘‘one of natural evolution, both
deliberate and resulting from the mixing
of disparate interests,’’? Elmes and Martin
Say.

Beginning in the 1986-87 academic
year, students will be able to construct an
independent major in cognitive studies,
although no formal department or major
requirements will be made. Growth and
development in cognitive studies will be
predicated upon interest shown by both
students and faculty.

With the founding of the program in
cognitive studies, Washington and Lee
will join such institutions as Brandeis,
Brown, Hampshire, MIT, Rochester,
Vassar, Wellesley, Gustavus Adolphus,
and Tulane that have either formal or
coordinate undergraduate majors in the
field.

*‘Ultimately,’’ say Elmes and Martin,
‘‘the goal may be a major program in
cognitive studies, but in the meantime we
see cognitive studies serving as a medium
for attracting students and faculty in-
terested in studying the mind.”’

W&L 13

 

Homecoming
Sampler

 

 

 

 

 

E =
“sees
S

Robert Vienneau, ’87, at the piano, accompanies Bruin Richardson,
86, and Cathleen Tiernan, ’89, in a Homecoming Day concert in Lee
Chapel.

 

tl

Alumni enjoy the pre-game picnic.

 

Kevin Weaver dives for yardage in the
Generals’ 42-17 Homecoming victory over
Maryville. Weaver emerged as one of the na-
tion’s leading Division IIT rushers and had an
average of 141 yards per game with 14
touchdowns through W&L’s first seven games.

\

Ellen Satterwhite of Mary Baldwin College is crowned Homecoming queen by chemistry pro-
fessor Keith Shillington.

14 W&L

The
~ University
- Report
— 1984-85

 

A Message
From the Rector

To Alumni, Parents, members of the business community,
and other friends and supporters of Washington and Lee
University:

Each year we include our annual report of gifts in this issue
of the Alumni Magazine. This year it is my privilege as the Rec-
tor of the Board of Trustees to express to each of you our
heartfelt thanks for the generous support we received this past |
year. We thank you also for your continuing commitment to
helping Washington and Lee as it makes further progress in its
achievement of excellence.

To me and to your Board of Trustees it is particularly
noteworthy that our total gifts for the past year 1984-85 were
the highest since the completion of the Development Program in
1982. As you will note elsewhere in this report, our total gift
support amounted to $7.8 million, just under the $7.82 million
achieved in 1981-82 when we ended the Development Program.
The total gift support from alumni added up to $3.74 million,
also the highest total received since the end of the Development
Program.

We must always remind ourselves that philanthropy has
maintained this sixth-oldest institution of higher learning in the
United States for nearly a quarter of a millennium, all in accor- i
dance with what we might call a basic plan to which George i
Washington himself subscribed and which Robert E. Lee :
strengthened by the gifts he developed as a result of the fact that
so many in both North and South held him in such high esteem.

Even as we express our gratitude, we must be reminded of
our need to do more. Each generation has been the beneficiary
of those who came before, and each generation is obligated to
pay its dues. While we can take pride in our accomplishment,
we must strive to do more to further the influence of this great
institution that has meant so much to us and can mean even
more to those who follow after us at Washington and Lee.

 

 

Sincerely,

ray

JAMES M. BALLENGEE

16 W&L

 

GIFT SUPPORT

TOTAL NEW GIFT SUPPORT FOR 1984-85

The figures below represent cash only for the 1984-85 Annual Fund. Pledges, in addi-
tion to cash and securities, are included for all other gifts.

1. BY SOURCE
Current* Capital * * Total
The Annual Fund
Alumni $1,227,873 oe $1,227,873
Parents 73,825 —-— 73,825
Friends 10,789 a 10,789
Other Gifts
Alumni 87,446 $1,481,569 1,569,015
Parents 12,599 5,058 17,657
Friends 69,609 2,192,600 2,262,209
Foundations 412,000 165,892 577,892
Business 107,578 10,274 117,852
The Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges 178,625 —— 178,625
Remainder Value of Deferred
Gifts a 112,712 112,712
Totals $2,180,344 $3,968,105 $6,148,449
ll. BY PURPOSE
For annual operating expenses (current gifts) $2,180,344
For Endowment (capital gifts)
. Student Aid $ 748,168
1 NOR General & Special Endowment 2,900,780
3,648,948
i For Plant Fund (capital gifts)
.- General Building 63,657
Ye Restoration 255,500
| 319,157
GRAND TOTAL $6,148,449

“Current gifts are completely expended during the academic year.
**Capital gifts are designated as additions to endowment and physical plant.

A. Total voluntary support during the past five years. Cash only (no
pledges) as reported to the Council for Financial Aid to Education.
Includes payments on pledges recorded in previous years.

Year

1980-81
1981-82
1982-83
1983-84
1984-85

Current

$1,721,111
2,180,185
2,293,858
met tT
2,155,050

Capital Total
$3,946,933 $5,668,044
5,639,118 7,819,303
2,458,601 4,752,459
3,519,657 5,729,774
5,645,551 7,800,601

D. Alumni support for addition to endowment and improvement of
physical plant per student (capital gifts).

1980-81
1981-82
1982-83
1983-84
1984-85

1,634 students
1,679 students
1,714 students
1,719 students
1,714 students

$1,459 per student
1,998 per student
649 per student
1,086 per student
1,408 per student

E. Total voluntary support (all sources) per student.

B. Total alumni support during the past five years. Cash only (no 1980-81 1,634 students $3,468 per student
pledges) as reported to the council for Financial Aid to 1981-82 1,679 students 4,657 per student
Education. 1982-83 1,714 students 2,772 per student

Year Current Capital Total 1983-84 1,719 students 3,333 per student

1980-81 $1,219,384 $2,384,378 $3,603,762 1984-85 1,714 students 4,551 per student

1981-82 1,584,475 3,355,448 4,939,923

1982-83 1,631,948 1,113,370 2,745,318 F. Total voluntary alumni support per student.

1983-84 1,467,853 1,866,365 3,334,218 1980-81 1,634 students $2,205 per student

190-80 \ ad iy rennin Bahr 1981-82 1,679 students 2,942 per student

1982-83 1,714 students 1,601 per student

C. Alumni support for current operations per student (annual fund 1983-84 1,719 students 1,939 per student

plus other current gifts). 1984-85 1,714 students 2,184 per student

1980-81
1981-82
1982-83
1983-84
1984-85

1,634 students
1,679 students
1,714 students
1,719 students
1,714 students

$746 per student
944 per student
952 per student
853 per student
776 per student

W&L_ 17

The Robert E. Lee Associates

The Board of Trustees established the Robert E. Lee
Associates in 1967 to identify and recognize leadership
in support of the University’s educational program
through the Annual Fund. Alumni and friends are cor-
dially invited to join this fellowship.

Qualification for membership: An alumnus, parent,
or friend may join the Robert E. Lee Associates by con-
tributing $1,000 or more to the University through its
Annual Fund for support of current operations in the
educational and general budget. This gift may be paid
in One or more installments during the fiscal year—July

1 to June 30.

The General’s Council

Edward B. Addison ’45

James C. Ambler ’18

Frank S. Anderson Jr. ’70

Thomas D. Anderson ’34L

Earle T. Andrews ‘25

Billy V. Ayers '40

James M. Ballengee ’48L

William F. Barron Jr. '52

Frederick Bartenstein Jr. ’39, ’41L

Edgar A. Basse Jr. '39

F. Fox Benton Jr. 60

Richard H. Berry °57

Harry Lee Bowman ’36

Edgar M. Boyd ’42

Thomas B. Branch Ill 58, ’60L

Frank C. Brooks '46

Frank C. Brooks Jr. '71

L. Palmer Brown Ill ’30

Robert G. Brown ’49

Russell G. Browning '42

Martin P. Burks Ill '32L

William O. Burtner ‘17, 721L

J. Stewart Buxton ’36

Cadaver F

Benjamin L. Chapman ’64

William N. Clements ’50

Noel P. Copen '57L

Dr. George B. Craddock '30

Rogers L. Crain ’75

H. Tyndall Dickinson ’39, °41L

Rush S. Dickson Family
Foundation, Inc. P

E. Waller Dudley '43, '47L

Mr. & Mrs. Lynn P. Durham P

Joseph F. Ellis Jr. '43

Jorge E. Estrada ’69

James D. Farquhar 63

David B. Favrot Jr. 82

Thomas C. Frost Jr. '50

Fred O. Funkhouser ’34

Harry G. Goodheart Ill 66

Floyd D. Gottwald Jr. P

Gerard E. Grashorn '30

Robert S. Griffith Jr. 52

Houston H. Harte 50

Robert E. Hill '40

Hon. Omer L. Hirst ’36

Douglas H. Hunt ’75

Robert E. R. Huntley 50, ’57L

Herbert G. Jahncke ’30

Raleigh M. Jenkins '24

David T. Johnson Sr. P

H. Reed Johnston '28

Willlam R. Johnston ’61

Earl T. Jones ’30

Stanley A. Kamen ’49L

Joseph S. Keelty 44

Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller Jr. ’39

Walton W. Kingsbery Jr. ’48

S L Kopald Jr. 43

Eugene M. Kramer '40

Kenneth P. Lane Sr. ’36

18 = W&L

 

H. Gordon Leggett Jr. ‘54
Charles R. Lemon '49
William J. Lemon ’55, ’59L
Sydney Lewis ‘40

Alfred L. McCarthy '23L
Samuel P. McChesney Jr. '38
Joseph B. McCutcheon ’51
Lewis A. McMurran Jr. ’36
Robert H. Mann Jr. '55, ’57L
J. Hardin Marion Ill ’55, ‘58L
James Bland Martin '31L
Oliver M. Mendell '50

Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhiser P
Houston M. Minniece ‘31
Julian B. Mohr ‘52

Robert J. Moody ’49

James P. Morefield '52L
Edwin A. Morris '26

John E. Neill 38

Milburn K. Noell 51, ’54L

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. ’33, °35L
Howard B. Peabody Jr. '44
Reginald H. Pettus '48L

J. Alvin Philpott ’45

James A. Philpott Jr. 69, '72L
Dr. George H. Pierson Jr. ‘50
Hon. Lewis F. Powell Jr. '29, ’31L
Donald H. Putnam Jr. '44
Lee A. Putney '53

W. Bryce Rea Jr. 39, ‘41L
William M. Read '40
Patterson H. Robertson ‘65
Robert W. Root '42

Charles S. Rowe ’45

Mr. & Mrs. A. T. Sanders P
John E. Scheifly '48L

LM SCon. S7t

Richard T. Scruggs P
Franklin H. Simmons 751
Richard T. Sloan ’42
Stephen S. Sloan ’54

Otis H. Smith °31

William H. Smith °15

Jerry G. South '54

James D. Sparks Sr. '32L
George M. Spaulding '34
Gen. A. A. Sproul Ill °37
John W. Stackhouse ‘55
John M. Stemmons '31

Guy T. Steuart Il ‘53

Charles C. Stieff Il ’45
Calvert Thomas '38

Dr. John N. Thomas ‘24

J. Thomas Touchton ‘60
Richard H. Turrell '49

John H. Van Amburgh P

M. Theodore Van Leer ’51
David N. Walker ’38
Jonathan W. Warner ’41

W. Emory Waters Jr. ‘68
John A. Webber ’'35

Herbert M. Weed .'42

David S. Weinberg '55

J. Albert Weinberg ’31
William E. Whaley Jr. ’40

General’s Council: A Lee Associate becomes a
member of the General’s Council for cumulative gifts
totaling $10,000 or more in 12 consecutive years or less,
or for a pledge to accomplish this result. Thus, a donor
may fulfill this requirement by giving—or pledging to
give—$1,000 in any 10 years out of 12, by making

 

larger gifts at less frequent intervals, or by a single gift |

of $10,000 or more.

Listed are members of the General’s Council and
those Lee Associates who made a gift to the Annual
Fund of $1,000 or more during 1984-85.

Walter H. Wilcox '29

Ernest Williams Il '38
William |. Winchester ’58
William P. Woodley ’28L
Herbert M. Woodward ’41
Raymond E. Wooldridge ’60
Frank G. Young ’66

George M. Young ’54
William K. Young ’58

Lee Associates

Edward B. Addison ’45
Peter A.Agelasto Ill ‘62

Dr. & Mrs. Bobby R. Alford P
A. Lewis Allen '58

James C. Ambler '18

F. Sheldon Anderson Jr. '’70
Thomas D. Anderson '34L
Earle T. Andrews ‘25
Randall W. Atkins ’76L

Mr. & Mrs. William J. Atkins P
C. DuBose Ausley '59

Billy V. Ayers '40

Seth N. Baker ’38

William N. Baker ’67

William H. Baldock III ’39
James M. Ballengee '48L
Norwood E. Band ‘34
Virginius J. Barnett ’30
William F. Barron Jr. '52
Frederick Bartenstein Jr. ’39,'41L
Edgar A. Basse Jr. '39
Ralph W. Baucum Jr. '58
Andrew H. Baur ’37
Andrew N. Baur ’66

William G. Bean Jr. ’51

F. Fox Benton Jr. ‘60
Richard H. Berry '57

Mr. & Mrs. Judah Best P
Alfred T. Bishop Jr. ’41
Joseph J. Blake Jr. ‘72
John K. Boardman Jr. ’51
Thomas T. Bond ’51

A. Lea Booth '40

Harry L. Bowman '36
Edgar M. Boyd ’'42

Thomas B. Branch Ill '58,’60L
Thomas H. Broadus Jr. '59
Paul K. Brock ’54

Charles D. Broll '59,’'62L
Frank C. Brooks '46

Frank C. Brooks Jr. ‘71

L. Palmer Brown III ‘30
Robert G. Brown ‘49
Willlam E. Brown ‘30
Russell G. Browning ‘42
Thomas B. Bryant III ’59,’61L
Joseph R. Burkart '64
Martin P. Burks Ill ’382L
William O. Burtner °17,'21L
Calvin T. Burton ’25

J. Stewart Buxton '36

 

 

Cadaver F

John R. Calvert '54

C. Howard Capito '68

David D. Carothers '61

Leigh Carter '49

Gray C. Castle '53,’55L
Frederick A. Casto '65L
Benjamin L. Chapman ’64
Hal S. Chase '65

Laurence G. Christie Jr. '53
Robert E. Clapp Jr. ’30
John K. Clark ’33

William N. Clements II ’50
Malcolm A. Clinger Jr. ‘58
John A. Cocklereece Jr. '76,’79L
John A. Cooper '28

Noel P. Copen ’57L

William J. Cox '17

George B. Craddock '30
Rogers L. Crain '75

Joseph L. Craycroft Jr. '59
J. Robert Cross ’54

Richard F. Cummins ’59
John J. Cuomo '34

Marvin P. Daniel '74

Joseph H. Davenport Ill '69
Mr. Richard M. Davis P
Calvert G. DeColigny Jr. ’61
Jacquelin H. De Jarnette '65
Richard A. Denny Jr. '52, 54L
Dudley W. Denton ‘30
Haskell T. Dickinson ’39,’41L
Rush S. Dickson Family Fdn., Inc., F
Ben W. Ditto ’43

Beverly M. DuBose Ill '62
John M. Duckworth ‘71

E. Waller Dudley '43, 47L
Mrs. Thomas P Duncan F
James E. Dunn ur. '82
Mr. & Mrs. Lynn D. Durham P
Robert C. Dyer ’35
George E. Eagle ’52
Ernest V. Echols ’41
Joseph F. Ellis Jr. °43
Jorge E Estrada M '69

W. Gilbert Faulk Jr. ’68L
David B. Favrot Jr. '82
Mark R. Ferdinand '67L
John T. Fey '39
Christopher D. Friend ‘71
G. Archer Frierson Il °73
Frigid Freeze Foods Inc F
Thomas C. Frost Jr. ’50
Fred Q. Funkhouser '34
James F. Gallivan ’51
Benjamin D S Gambill Jr. ’67
Harold A. Gleason '70L
Harry G. Goodheart Ill 66
Mr. Floyd D. Gottwald Jr. P
Gerard E. Grashorn ’30
S. Graves '30

John L. Griffith Jr. °72L
Robert S. Griffith Jr. '52
Lee Halford Jr. '69

W. Cecil Hardy Jr. ’39

 

 

 

Charles F. Harris Jr. '71

W. Allen Harrison ’54
Houston H. Harte '50

Mrs. Oliver H. Havens P
Kazimierz J. Herchold '68
Milton T. Herndon '56L
Robert E. Hill '40

Clarence E. Hinkle '25L

W. Hayne Hipp '62
Malcolm M. Hirsh '45

Omer L. Hirst ’36

Vernon W. Holleman Jr. '58
Arthur Hollins Ill '51

Samuel B. Hollis '51
William M. Hollis Jr. °53

A. Linwood Holton Jr. '44
William B. Hoofstitler '36
Farris P. Hotchkiss ’58

C. Royce Hough Ill ’59
Albert C. Hubbard Jr. ’59,’62L
Forrest E. Huffman '36
Douglas H. Hunt '75

J. Ward Hunt '69

Robert E. R. Huntley '50, '57L
Charles D. Hurt Jr. 59
Richard A. Hurxthal ’50
Robert F. Hutcheson Jr. '39L
Clay T. Jackson '76

R. Edward Jackson ’°45
Howard E. Jacobs '58
Herbert G. Jahncke '30
Raleigh M. Jenkins '24
James W. Jennings Jr. '65,’72L
Carlton D. Johnson '49

Mr. David T. Johnson Sr. P
Rupert H. Johnson Jr. '62
H. Reed Johnston '28
William R. Johnston 61

A. Alling Jones '68L

Earl T. Jones ’30

Hoyle C. Jones '60

J. Luther Jordan Jr. °42
Stanley A. Kamen '49L
Sidmon J. Kaplan '56
Joseph S. Keelty '44
Christoph Keller Jr. ’39

_ Walton W. Kingsbery Jr. '48

Walter F. Kirk Jr. '37

John D. Klinedinst '71,'78L
Mr. & Mrs. Paul Knight P
Donald H. Koontz ’71

S L Kopald ur. '43

Eugene M. Kramer '40
Richard R. Kreitler ’65

E. Ross Kyger Ill ’63
Gilbert R. Ladd Ill '57
John L. Lancaster II] 58
Robert P. Lancaster '62
Allie H. Lane °43, 47L
Kenneth P. Lane '36
Malcolm Lassman '60,'’63L
Thomas O. Lawson ’'56
Howard D. Leake '24

H. Drake Leddy ‘71

James A. Lee '17

H. Gordon Leggett Jr. ’54
Charles R. Lemon '49
William J. Lemon '55,’59L
Harold F. Lenfest ’53
Lester |. Levine '51
Sydney Lewis '40

Stephen F. Lichtenstein '53
Joseph D. Logan Ill ’67L
Michael R. Long '72

Mr. & Mrs. S. Mark Lovell P
John P. Lynch ’30

Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr. '26
Robert H. Mann Jr. '55,’57L
J. Hardin Marion '55,’58L
Edwin M. Marks ’35,’37L
J. Stephen Marks Ill ’59
James B. Martin '31L

Paul M. Maslansky '54
Thomas A. Mattesky '74

J. Jason Matthews ‘73
Courtney R. Mauzy dr. ’61
John D. Mayhew '26

Floyd R. Mays Jr. '38
Alfred L. McCarthy ’23L

 

Samuel P. McChesney Jr. '38
Hayes C. McClerkin Jr. '53
Donald H. McClure '62
Charles T. McCord Ill '63
Joseph B. McCutcheon '51
Joseph S. McDaniel Ill ’65
Douglas McDowell '64
James C. McElroy '70
Oswald B. McEwan '40L
Thomas N. McJunkin ’70,'74L
Lewis A. McMurran ’36
Charles A. Mead, Jr. '44
Frederick A. Meiser Jr. '68
Oliver M. Mendell ’50

Joseph Mendelsohn Ill ‘52
James E. Mendoza ‘80
James A. Meriwether '70

R. L. Miller °28

Stuart T. Miller ’36

Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhiser P
Mrs. Dorothy S. Milling F

H. Thorp Minister Jr. ’49
Houston M. Minniece °31
Julian B. Mohr °52

Phillip D. Mollere '66

Robert J. Moody '49
William W. Moore ’62L
James P. Morefield ’52L

J. Marvin Moreland Jr. '56
John S. Moremen '57L
Edwin A. Morris '26

George C. Morris Jr. ’46
Lawrence H. Morrison ’70
A. Payne Morrow '28
Robert A. Mosbacher '47
John H. Mullin Ill 63

David M. Murray '52,’55L
John E. Neill 38

Milburn K. Noell Jr. '51,’54L
William C. Norman Jr. ’56
Henry Nottberg Ill ‘71

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. ’33,’35L
J. Richard O’Connell ’56
Mr. & Mrs. Elliott M. Ogden Jr. P
E. Staman Ogilvie ’71

W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr. ’64
Howard B. Peabody Jr. '44
Markham L. Peacock Jr. '24,’26L
Albert G. Peery ’31,’32L
John T. Perry Jr. '41
Reginald H. Pettus ’48L
Harry M. Philpott '38

J. Alvin Philpott '45

J. Alvin Philpott Jr. '69,’72L
George H. Pierson Jr. '50
Edward F. Pilley ‘30
Frederick H. Pitzer Jr. ’42
Dr. & Mrs. Daniel W. Platt P
Daniel E. Popovich '53
Lewis F. Powell Jr. '29,’31L
Maurice E. Purnell Jr. '61
Donald H. Putnam Jr. '44
Louis R. Putnam '52

Lee A. Putney ’53

E. Stuart Quarngesser ’55
Miss Mary R Quinlan F
Harold J. Quinn Jr. '54
William E. Rawlings ’53

Mrs. Oscar G. Rawls F

W. Bryce Rea Jr. '39,'41L
William M. Read '40

Kelley E. Reed Jr. '37

Neil W. Riley '26

Patterson H. Robertson '65
Mr. T. Lee Robinson P
Henry L. Roediger III '69
Robert W. Root '42

Charles S. Rowe '45

Mr. & Mrs. A. T. Sanders P
William W. Schaefer ’60
John E. Scheifly ’48L

Mr. & Mrs. Bertram R. Schewel '41
Mr. & Mrs. Elliot S. Schewel '45
Mr. & Mrs. Marc A. Schewel '69
Stanford L. Schewel ’40L
Francis E. Schmitt '30
Charles C. Schock Jr. °43L
Isadore M. Scott '37L

Mr. Richard T. Scruggs P

 

Jacob S. Seligman '36
Bernard M. Shapiro '64
Richard S. Sharlin '61
Isham M. Sheffield III '53
Conway H. Sheild Ill '64,’67L
Charles C. Sherrill 60
Frontis W. Sherrill ’28
Franklin H. Simmons '51
Sam P. Simpson IV ’65
Dr. Sanford R. Singer P
Richard T. Sloan '42
Stephen S. Sloan '54
Chester T. Smith Jr. °53
Davis P. Smith Ill °71
Donald C. Smith '39
Hatton C. V. Smith '73

H. Gilbert Smith Jr. '68
Herbert F. Smith '64,’67L
James W. Smith '62

Otis H. Smith ’31

Richard W. Smith '41
William H. Smith °15

W. Currin Snipes Jr. '81
Jerry G. South '54

Jason B. Sowell Jr. '54
James D. Sparks Sr. ’32L
George M. Spaulding '34
Archibald A. Sproul Ill '37
John W. Stackhouse ’55
Martin E. Stein Jr. '74
John M. Stemmons '31
Hon. Roscoe B. Stephenson '43
Guy T. Steuart Il °53
Charles C. Stieff Il '45
Edward E. Stover '37L
Robert E. Stroud '58L
Charles A. Sweet '36
Robert W. Swinarton '50
Calvert Thomas ’38

John N. Thomas '24
Robert G. Thomas '65
Roland E. Thompson '52
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. ’63
J. Thomas Touchton ‘60
Mr. & Mrs. W. Bryan Trammell P
S. Maynard Turk ’52L

 

 

 

Richard H. Turrell '49

J. Hoge Tyler Ill ’31, ’33L
Mr. John H. Van Amburgh P
Kenneth Van de Water Jr. '41
M. Theodore Van Leer '51
John W. Vardaman Jr. ’62
E. Darracott Vaughan Jr. '61
David N. Walker '38

|. Grier Wallace Jr. ’35
Thomas R. Warfield '52

W. Emory Waters '68

John A. Webber '35

W. Temple Webber Jr. '53
Herbert M. Weed '42

David S. Weinberg ’55

J. Albert Weinberg Jr. '31
John L. Wellford Jr. '57
Robert F. Wersel '42

Mercer E. West IV ’75
William E. Whaley Jr. ’40
Robert M. White II ’38
Bryan B. Whitehurst '74
Walter H. Wilcox '29

William M. Wilcox Jr. '47
Maxwell P. Wilkinson ’28
Charles M. Williams '38
Ernest Williams ’38

Lewis D. Williams Jr. ’37
John D. Wilson F

William |. Winchester '58
Sherwood W. Wise ’32,’34L
John A. Wolf ’69,’72L

Frank B. Wolfe Ill 61

John F. Wolfe ’65

Thomas K. Wolfe Jr. °51
James A. Wood '59

William P. Woodley '28L
Herbert M. Woodward Jr. '41
Raymond E. Wooldridge '60
William L. Woolfolk '25
Robert H. Yevich ’70

Frank G. Young '66

George M. Young ‘54

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Young Jr. P
W. Kelly Young ‘58

2 anonymous donors

W&L 19

The Annual Fund:
Academic Classes

The Annual Fund is Washington and Lee’s

_most vital source of gift income. Listed here are
the names of alumni who contributed to the An-
nual Fund in 1984-85. Their gifts helped
Washington and Lee continue the high quality of
its educational program. Those whose names are
printed in bold face type are members of the Lee
Associates and made gifts of $1,000 or more in
1984-85; those whose names are in italics are Col-
onnade Club members and made gifts of

$100-$999 in 1984-85.

CLASS OF 1912-A
William M. Miller

CLASS OF 1913-A
Edward S. Delaplaine
Carroll B. Wiltshire

CLASS OF 1914-A
J. Goodloe Jackson Jr.
Julian W. Selig

CLASS OF 1915-A
Leslie S. Anderson
Judge M. F. Hays
Rupert N. Latture
William H. Smith

CLASS OF 1916-A
Lawrence B. Bagley
C. Lynch Christian
Edwin B. Shultz

CLASS OF 1917-A
J. Withers Blake
William O. Burtner
Joseph R. Campbell
William J. Cox
Morris H. Hester
Curtis C. Humphris
James A. Lee

W. Calvin Wells

CLASS OF 1918-A
James C. Ambler

Edmund D. Campbell Sr.

A. Carter Crymble
James L. Howe Jr.
Adolph S. Marx
Matthew W. Paxton Sr.
Virgil J. Trotter Jr.
Samuel W. Winebrenner

CLASS OF 1919-A
Theodore H. Evans
Irving M. Lynn
Craig H. Patterson
Tiley H. Scovell Jr.
Allen Wescott

CLASS OF 1920-A
Eric B. Hallman

H. Douglas Jones
Emmett W. Poindexter
Henry F. Trotter

CLASS OF 1921-A
H. Gray Funkhouser
William A. Gibbons Jr.
Samuel L. Raines
David C. Storey

CLASS OF 1922-A
Benjamin J. Broach
Robert S. Cherry Jr.
W. Franklin Portlock

20 W&L

 

W. Ashton Powell
Dewey A. Reynolds
W. Henry Trotter Jr.

CLASS OF 1923-A
George H. Bowers Jr.
Melville 1. Dunn Jr.
Judson B. Holloway
Frank B. Hurt

Weldon T. Kilmon
Ainsley J. Lester Jr.
George C. Mason Jr.
Joseph W. McDonald Jr.
J. Vaughn Penn

R. Winter Royston
Kenneth R. Smith

D. Raymond Snively
Thomas M. Wade Jr.
Raymond G. Wickersham

CLASS OF 1924-A
E. Almer Ames Jr.
Percy D. Ayres
Edmund M. Cameron
John A. Cummins

J. G. Guerrant
Andrew H. Harriss dr.
Raleigh M. Jenkins
Henry W. Jones
Robert L. King

Will P. Kirkman
Howard D. Leake
Robert T. Merritt
Albert Newman
Markham L. Peacock Jr.
Francis W. Plowman
Turner Rice

H. Ogden Shropshire

‘Glenn R. Stoutt

John N. Thomas
Norfleet Turner

CLASS OF 1925-A
Earle T. Andrews
Robert F. Bolling Jr.
Calvin T. Burton
Bruce F. Gannaway
Robert F. Goodrich
Murrel D. Klein
Edgar T. McHenry
Andrew T. Roy

Joe Shuman

Allan P. Sloan

Edgar J. Spady

William L. Woolfolk

CLASS OF 1926-A
Jack G. Chapman
Almand R. Coleman
Wilton W. Conner
Ralph |. Daves
William W. Davis

 

Fred W. Dismuke

Charles H. Hamilton
Kenneth C. Kimbrough
Charles W. Lowry dr.

Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr.

John D. Mayhew
Thomas T. Moore
Edwin A. Morris
Neil W. Riley

Paul M. Schuchart
Thomas L. Seehorn
Ernest L. Smith
William F. Smith
Digby C. West
James N. Williams
W. Burke Williamson
Henry M. Wilson

CLASS OF 1927-A
Walter R. Bishop
George E. Burks

H. Reese Coleman
George T. Ellis
Allen Harris Jr.
Thomas L. Harris
William M. Jennings
Joseph L. Lanier Sr.
Zed C. Layson
Robert P. London Jr.
Reginald V. Milbank
Russell G. Miller
Alexander S. Moffett
J. Preston Moore
William W. Morgan
John B. Perry Jr.

C. W. Clark Poole
Burchard S. Pruett
R. Wilbur Simmons
Thomas P. Stearns
Robert E. Stevenson
George W. Summerson
Alfred F. Taylor
Israel |. Weinstein
David H. Wice

CLASS OF 1928-A
John W. Alderson Jr.
Joseph B. Clower Jr.
Percy Cohen

John A. Cooper
William C. Drewry
Frank R. Dupuy

John B. Ecker

Wilton M. Garrison
Julius Goldstein
Roger J. Haller

John S. Hanckel

Van A. Hollomon Sr.
Gerald F. Horine

H. Reed Johnston
Joseph J. Kaplan
William J. Luria

Willett C. Magruder Jr.
R. L. Miller

A. Payne Morrow
Frontis W. Sherrill
Howard K. Tayloe
Maxwell P. Wilkinson
Stuard A. Wurzburger
John M. Yarbrough

CLASS OF 1929-A
Charles V. Amole
James E. Bane
James A. Castner
William F. Chandler
Benjamin C. Eastwood
E. Lee Gamble

T. Graham Gibson
Harry E. Godwin
George H. Goodwin
Gale B. Haley

Louis A. Haskell

Asa M. Janney
Franklin P. Johnson II
Benjamin P. Knight Jr.
Robert B. Lee

John M. Luft
Adolphus L. Lunsford
William A. MacDonough

 

Adrian L. McCardell Jr.
Allen B. Morgan
Francis T. Parker Jr.
Robert W. Pharr
Walter N. Pharr
Lewis F. Powell Jr.
Vernon R. Preston
John S. Ragland
James J. Salinger
Irwin T. Sanders
William G. Sargent
Alfred |. Schlossberg
James M. Shackelford
Arthur D. Simmons

O. Norris Smith
Walter H. Wilcox
Clyde H. Wilson
Thomas P. Wright

CLASS OF 1930-A
William T. Alsop
Virginius J. Barnett
Franklin R. Bigham
John B. Bowen Jr.
L. Palmer Brown Ill
W. Bestor Brown
William E. Brown
Henry F. Bullard
Robert E. Clapp Jr.
Charles W. Cocke
George B. Craddock
John P. Davis
Robert W. Davis Jr.
Dudley W. Denton
Frank O. Evans Sr.
Justin E. Farrell

Idus D. Felder Jr.
Lawrence Y. Foote
Gerard E. Grashorn
Edward S. Graves
Stanley F. Hampton
Abbot A. Harman
James N. Hess
Herbert G. Jahncke
Earl T. Jones

Virgil C. Jones
Murrel H. Kaplan
Fred B. King Jr.
Charles |, Lewis
Martin P. Lindsey
John P. Lynch
Robert V. May

J. B. Merrick

Gus E. Mitchell Jr.
John A. Mitchell
John H. Nelson
Shuford R. Nichols
Edward F. Pilley

Alexander L. Roberson Jr.

James R. Roberts

Rev. Leon R. Robison Jr.
Gilbert V. Rosenberg
Francis E. Schmitt
Mark Sperry

George A. Sprinkel III
William T. Stuchell Jr.
Merle Suter

James W. Tankard
William G. Tarrant Jr.
Harry E. Trail

Alfred S. Wagner Jr.
C. E. White

Jack A. Williamson
Gustave B. Wiltshire Jr.

CLASS OF 1931-A
John H. Beury
Leonard C. Borland
Charles A. Bowes
Watson A. Bowes
Lawton M. Calhoun
Sidney W. Clay
Walter E. Coe
Grafton E. Cost
Thomas S. Fox
Frank E. Freeman
Redmond B. Gautier Jr.
Elbert E. Hall

Julius Halpern

 

John H. Hardwick

A. McGehee Harvey
Okey K. Hickman
Paul A. Hornor
Eugene Johnson

W. L. Jones

George Junkin
Luther W. King
Beverly J. Lambert Jr.
Talcott C. Lancaster
A. Bernard Levin
Morton P. Levy
Herbert B. Luria III
James L. Lytle Ur.
Henry R. Mahler ur.
Duncan McConnell
Houston M. Minniece
William C. Morris
Gilmore N. Nunn
James K. Osterman
Charles Peeper
Arthur W. Phelps
Reno R. Porter
James C. Rash Jr.
John T. Raymond
James L. Rimler
William V. Rucker
Stuart Sanders ||
Myron A. Schrantz
Otis H. Smith
George H. Snyder Jr.
John M. Stemmons
John A. Stuart Jr.
John H. Thomas dr.
Lewis A. Vance
Stanley D. Waxberg
J. Albert Weinberg Jr.
Harold M. Weston
Walter F. Williams

CLASS OF 1932-A
Erwin J. Ade

John D. Clothier Jr.
Richard M. Coe
Robert C. Conner
Everett N. Cross
David F. Crossen
Allan S. DeLand
Irving E. Dobbs
Charles E. Duncan
Eli H. Fink

Sollace M. Freeman
Hunter B. Frischkorn
John G. Hamilton
John C. Harris
Horace A. Hartgrove
William D. Hoyt Jr.
Isaac F. Hudson
Leonard W. Johnson
Thomas N. Layne
Julian A. Levy
Charles E. Long Jr.
M. Robert Louis
Charles C. Love

E. Carlyle Lynch Jr.
Eugene P. Martin Jr.
Harry L. McCarthy
James M. McKnight
James W. McLaurin
Keith L. Meyer
Robert W. Phillips
James S. Pollak

~ K. R. Routon

Arthur B. Scharff

J. Bernard Spector
Jack J. Stark

Haven Walton
Sherwood W. Wise

-Samuel S. Woody Jr.

Joseph L. Wright
John W. Zimmerman

CLASS OF 1933-A

Harold B. Abramson
Reuben B. Armistead
William S. Barker

T. Deale Blanchard
Irving B. Bricken
William J. Brooks Jr.

 

 

 

 

 

Frank E. Calhoun
John K. Clark
James F. Cook

John D. Copenhaver
M. Hoge Crighton Jr.
John A. Culley
Theodore M. Curtis
Jeb S. Darby Jr.
William T. DeVan
Ralph S. Emerson
William H. Flowers Jr.
John Griffiths
George H. Hagadorn Jr.
Gray W. Hume Jr.
Cary F. Irons Jr.

C. Robert Kaplan
William C. Kimbrell
Leroy M. Lee Jr.
Charles J. Longacre
William F. Methvin dr.
Frank B. Mooers Jr.
Stanley S. Mundy
Thomas O. Murphey
G. William Musser

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.
Alvin B. Ortner
Walter J. Pound
Homer. G. Ray Jr.

lra H. Samelson
Henry V. Saunders
James W A Smith Jr.
Robert R. Smith

Emil L. Stevens
George L. Stout
Charles F. Suter
Allen D. Symonds
Cromwell E. Thomas
William A. Williamson
John A. Womeldorf

CLASS OF 1934-A
Norwood E. Band
John D. Battle Jr.
Darby W. Betts
James A. Black
Robert L. Buffington
Frank J. Burkart

J. Duncan Burn
Joseph A. Burton
Kenneth R. Cole
John J. Cuomo
Isadore E. Dattel
Dan T. Dunn Sr.
James D. Dye
Holmes M. Dyer
R. C. Dyer

Samuel M. Engelhardt Jr.

Leslie A. Faudree
Robert E. Field
Everette E. Fisher
Fred Q. Funkhouser
Hunter E. Gaylor

F. Hadley Hamilton Jr.
Bernard G. Harless
Milton L. Harris
Claude Harrison Jr.
Louis B. Hess ur.
Maxwell B. Hostetter
Edward S. Jacobs
John T. Jarrett

Clyde A. Johnson

M. Alexander Jones
Henry L. King Jr.
William O. Leffell
Donald S. Levinson
Victor F. Marshall
George D. McClure
Gilbert C. McKown
Olin K. Miller

William J. Moran Jr.
Scott Mosovich
Joseph C. Muller
Foster McCrum Palmer
Neil C. Pascoe
George W. Pedigo Jr.
Edwin H. Pewett
James O. Phelps Jr.
George W. Price
Harvey Pride

 

Charles A. Pritchard

George L. Reynolds
Herbert Rudlin

Robert W. Ruth

James T. Rutherford Jr.
Claude E. Sanford
Philip J. Seraphine Jr.
Robert B. Shively
John F. Shroder
George M. Spaulding
Daniel B. Startsman
John H. Thomas
Arthur C. Tonsmeire Jr.
Everett Tucker Jr.
Robert K. Turney
William B. Tyree
Henry Waller Jr.
James M. White

CLASS OF 1935-A
Claude H. Barrick
David J. Bennett Jr.
Bruce T. Bullion
Edward W. Chappell Jr.
Thomas L. Coley Jr.
Robert F. Cooper Jr.
George E. Crisp
William P. Diggs Jr.
Arthur M. Doty

Robert C. Dyer
Leighton P. Everhart
Joseph W. Fairlie
Norman S. Fitzhugh Jr.
William R. Fox

James M. Franklin
Clifford J. Freund

Beardsley A. Gammel Jr.

Loyal P. Gassman
Ferdinand A. Hauslein
L. Leslie Helmer
Leroy Hodges ur.
Benjamin B. Hope
H. Harrison Huster
James P. Jordan

D. Lyle Kinnear
Carney G. Laslie Jr.
Sidney Lyons

Edwin M. Marks
Lewis W. Martin
Samuel C. Mattox
William D. McDavid
George J. McGeory
John S. Mitchell
Gus Morgan

Albert W. Moss
John B. Nicholson Jr.
Charles F. Porzig

N. Joe Rahall

Henry L. Ravenhorst
Harry M. Rhett Jr.
Thomas T. Richards Jr.
George E. Short
Winthrope C. Smith
John D. Spohr
Frederick D. Strong
Gilbert R. Swink Jr.
Jo M. Van Zandt
Charles L. Walker Jr.
1. Grier Wallace Jr.
Donald R. Wallis Sr.
John A. Webber
Thomas K. Williams
Peyton B. Winfree Jr.
James S. Woods Jr.
Anonymous

CLASS OF 1936-A
William M. Allen
Thomas H. Alphin
William C. Barbee
J. Vaughan Beale
Walter R. Beales Jr.
Harry L. Bowman
J. Stewart Buxton
Ernest L. Childs Jr.
Duncan Corbett
Robert F. Corrigan
Harold O. Danielson
John W. Davies

 

Joseph T. Drake Jr.
W. Magruder Drake
Walter B. Eager
Edgar E. Eaton Jr.
Julius E. Garber
Harry George Jr.
William W. Gerber
Joel Grayson III
Joseph J. Harding Jr.
George W. Harrison
Arthur E. Hauck
Charles W. Hawks
John T. Herwick
Omer L. Hirst
Edward W. Hiserman
William B. Hoofstitler
Forrest E. Huffman
William S. Johnson
Alfred Kahn Jr.
Martin Z. Kaplan
John S. Kirkpatrick
Kenneth P. Lane
Bruce N. Lanier
Leonard Leight
Kenneth G. MacDonald
Gregory S. Maury Jr.
Lewis A. McMurran
Stuart T. Miller
William B. Miller
Charles J. Mower
George R. Myers
Frank L. Price
James L. Price Jr.
Frederick D. Pultz
William A. Rawak
Alfred L. Reeser
William T. Riley
James A. Robertson
Richard T. Scully
Edward L. Seitz
Jacob S. Seligman
I. Glenn Shively
Charles A. Sweet
Joe B. Thomas
Thomas R. Thomas
Edward A. Turville
Robert P. Van Voast
S. Adrian Whiteside
Tyree F. Wilson

CLASS OF 1937-A
William H. Armentrout
Ernest C. Barrett Jr.
Stanley Barrows
Andrew H. Baur
Douglas E. Brady Jr.
Morton A. Brown
James S. Bruce

C. A. Butterworth Jr.
James A. Byers
William A. Clary
Eugene G. Clayton
Given W. Cleek
Robert V. Cole
William H. Daniel
Raymond F. Dustin
Herbert E. Fenner dr.
Robert V. Flint
Robert E. Graham
Randolph V. Hall
Charles K. Hauke
Robert C. Hoff
Norman P. Iler
Phillip S. Jones
Walter F. Kirk Jr.
Victor R. LaVolpe
Stephen B. Lee
William T. Long

C. Arnold Matthews
Angus A. McDonald
Alexander McIntosh
Donald R. Moore
Stuart B. Over Jr.
Michael A. Perna
Theodore M. Plowden
Albert A. Radcliffe
John W. Ray
Donald C. Redfield Jr.

 

Kelley E. Reed Jr.
James H. Rice Jr.
Edwin Rich

Thomas B. Ripy
Howell W. Roberts Jr.
Charles E. Roth

Parke S. Rouse Jr.
Richard E. Simon
Archibald A. Sproul Ill
Richard K. Stuart
Walter G. Thomas
John J. Vandale
William T. Watkins
Charles R. Watt
Latham B. Weber
John D. Wiggins
William C. Wilbur Jr.
Frank J. Williams Jr.
Lewis D. Williams Jr.
Fillmore G. Wilson
Laurence W. Wilson Jr.
Clark B. Winter

Frank H. Yaffe

CLASS OF 1938-A
Arthur H. Alexander

_R. Tate Alexander

Ben L. Anderson
William B. Bagbey
Seth N. Baker

William C. Baker Jr.
Robert M. Basile
George F. Bauer Jr.

C. Price Berryman

A. Compton Broders Jr.
William S. Burns
William H. Byrn
Charles F. Clarke Jr.
Frank W. Comer

John C. Cook

Thomas B. Cottingham
Paul H. Darsie

James M. Davidson ur.
Robert R. Finn

J. Oliver Gluyas

David W. Heath

Frank Jones Jr.
Landon Y. Jones
Edward F. Kaczka
Gerald M. Lively
Thomas A. Malloy Jr.
Donald N. Maloy

M. Hepburn Many
Floyd R. Mays Jr.

Samuel P. McChesney Jr.

Gilbert S. Meem
Paul M. Miller

John E. Neill

J. George Ostertag
James R. Parkey Jr.
John E. Perry

John S. Petot Jr.
Harry M. Philpott
Charles A. Prater
Sidney N. Repplier
T. H. Riggs

William M. Rogers Jr.
E. Alton Sartor Jr.
Chester Schept
Alphonse J. Sherman
J. Chester Shively
John H. Shoaf
Courtland N. Smith Jr.
J. Hiram Smith
Wendell R. Stoops
Robert E. Surles

W. Saxby Tavel
Calvert Thomas

E. Sidney Vaughn Jr.

‘David N. Walker

Robert C. Walker
Fred E. Waters Jr.
Robert M. White Il
Charles M. Williams
Ernest Williams

CLASS OF 1939-A
A. Ward Archer
Hugh P. Avery

 

Luther N. Bagnal dr.
William H. Baldock Ill
Frederick Bartenstein Jr.
Arthur E. Basile
Edgar A. Basse Jr.
William A. Beeton
Alexander W. Blain III
David H. Boals

Philip R. Brooks
Robert A. Brower
Edward F. Burrows
Martin C. Cassett
Thomas W. Christopher
Rogers M. Cox

Allen B. Craig Jr.
Melvin E. Cruser Jr.
Haskell T. Dickinson
James S. Dudley Jr.
Randolph M. Duncan
J. Donald Eackles
Andrew M. Eastwick Jr.
Warren H. Edwards
Harold L. Fenton Jr.
John T. Fey

James W. Fishel
Sherwin B. French
John B. Furr

Zalmon H. Garfield
Charles G. Gilmore
George E. Goodwin
George C. Graff
Charles L. Guthrie Jr.
H. L. Handley Jr.
Frank M. Hankins Jr.
W. Cecil Hardy Jr.
Charles R. Hart
Garret Hiers Jr.
Robert W. Hilton Jr.
Henry R. Horne

Neil T. Houston
William A. Jenks

Christoph Keller Jr.
George C. Kerr

Joe W. Lydick
Charles P. Lykes
Cass A. Mayo Jr.
Frank X. McNicol
Gwynn W. Merritt
Robert E. Milligan Jr.
Patrick S. Mullins Jr.
James E. Murphy
George T. Myers
James C. Paera
John A. Parkins
James W. Perkinson
Victor F. Radcliffe

W. Bryce Rea Jr.
Harry E. Redenbaugh
Wilfred J. Ritz

John R. Robinson
Richard S. Rude
James A. Saltsman Jr.
Charles H. Semple Jr.
Wilbert T. Shafer: ©
Edgar F. Shannon Jr.
John H. Sherrill Jr.
Herbert C. Sigvartsen
Donald C. Smith
Edgar W. Stuart
Maurice J. Swan Jr.
Stockton H. Tyler Jr.
George H. Vanta
Charles M. Wall
John H. Ward III

J. Warren White Jr.
Richard H. Wolfe

CLASS OF 1940-A
Jackson G. Akin
John G. Alnutt

Billy V. Ayers
Ralph P. Baker
Grover C. Baldwin Jr.
Frank S. Beazlie Jr.
James H. Bierer

C. Edward Blair
Richard W. Boisseau
A. Lea Booth
Edward E. Brown Jr.

W&L 21

Thomas E. Bruce Jr.
Donald T. Burton
William E. Buxton
Lawrence E. Carson
John B. Cleveland
Uriah F. Coulbourn
Michael P. Crocker
Charles C. Curl Jr.
John J. Dangler
Robert A. Dementi
Solomon Diamond
Hamilton G. Disbrow ur.
Charles R. Disharoon
Temple J. English Jr.
Brent H. Farber Jr.
Sion A. Faulk
George M. Foote
Roland S. Freeman
James P. Fristoe
Robert A. Fuller
Robert L. Gayle
Howard B. Gist Jr.
George M. Grasty
James C. Green
Matthews A. Griffith
Jerome A. Heldman
T. Kennedy Helm dr.
Ross V. Hersey
Hamilton Hertz
Robert E. Hill
Robert C. Hobson
Curg H. Hogan
Joseph Hunter
Robert S. Hutcheson Jr.
G. Watson James III
John W. Johnston
Homer D. Jones Jr.
William W. Kastner Jr.
Lee M. Kenna
Eugene M. Kramer
Charles P. Lewis dr.
Lorenzo C. Lewis
Sydney Lewis
Mervin H. Luria
Arthur W. Mann Jr.
Harry C. Mason
Melvin R. McCaskill
Matthew T. McClure
Thomas H. McCutcheon
Wilbur S. Metcalf Jr.
Joseph R. Mighell III
Earl B. Morgan Jr.
George C. Nielsen
Louis F. Plummer
Richard M. Radcliffe
William M. Read
Peyton E. Rice
Jerome A. Sacks
Hans A. Schmitt
Fred D. Shellabarger
Howard T. Shepherd
F. Scott Smither

D. Lee Spaulding

A. Ronald Thompson
Charles O. Turner
Louis M. Walker

W. Blakey Walker Jr.
William C. Washburn
William E. Whaley Jr.
Lloyd E. Worner Jr.

CLASS OF 1941-A
Robert H. Adams
William P. Ames dr.
Hugh G. Ashcraft Jr.
Benjamin F. Ashcroft
Arthur W. Avent
Lupton Avery

Alfred T. Bishop Jr.
Gale C. Boxill

Thomas S. Brizendine
Thomas W. Brockenbrough
Paul D. Brown
Theodore A. Bruinsma
Wiliam Buchanan
James R. Burkholder III
Henry T. Crocker Jr.
Lecompte K. Davis

G. Richard Day

22 =6OWeL

 

Chester Eccleston
Ernest V. Echols
William L. Evans Jr.
Otis C. Ferrell Jr.
Alvin T. Fleishman

N. Charlton Gilbert
Donald J. Godehn
Harry G. Goodheart Jr.
Walter D. Harrod
Richard M. Herndon
Charles L. Hobson
Edward E. Hunter Jr.
Franklin W. Hynson
Robert McLean Jeter Jr.
F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick
John H. Lawrence
Robert E. Lee

Ralph E. Lehr
James R. McConnell
G. Keith McMurran
Thomas G. Morris
James F. Norton
Robert C. Peery
John T. Perry Jr.
Robert C. Petrey
Robert H. Porter Jr.
James H. Price Jr.
Henry L. Roediger Jr.
Macey H. Rosenthal
John H. Rozelle
James A. Russell Jr.
H. Richard Sandstrom Jr.
Bertram R. Schewel
William L. Shannon
Arthur C. Smith Jr.
Richard W. Smith
James B. Snobble
Morry W. Spitz ur.
Robert E. Steele II/
Robert L. Stein

F Thornton Strang
Joseph G. Street
James D. Taylor
Charles G. Thalhimer
Edward H. Trice Jr.
Thomas S. Tuley Jr.

Kenneth Van de Water Jr.

Clinton Van Vliet

Herbert Van Voast

Carl L. Varner

Benton M. Wakefield Jr.
Claude M. Walker

John W. Weathers ur.
Henry B. Wilder

Marvin S. Winter

Herbert M. Woodward Jr.

CLASS OF 1942-A
Walter C. Aberg Jur.
Edgar M. Boyd
Edward W. Brockman Jr.
Frederick T. Bromm
Ned H. Brower
Russell G. Browning
Richard A. Brunn
Richard F. Burke III
Donald S. Carnahan Jr.
Evan Alevizatos Chriss
Kenneth S. Clendaniel
Thomas M. Cox
Edwin C. Cuttino

W. John Daniel
Charles P. Didier
John L. Dorsey
Gustave A. Essig
Lawrence J. Fisher Jr.
James E. Foard
Robert D. Gage II/

W. Scott Gilmer

Louis C. Greentree
Joseph H. Grubbs dr.
William B. Gunn
James S. Hill

Sidney Isenberg
Horace H. Jeter

W. Marshall Johnson
J. Luther Jordan Jr.
William R. Kiser
Andrew S. Lanier

 

Robert A. Lawton
Robert S. Leake
Beverley W. Lee Jr.
Daniel C. Lewis Jr.
Gordon R. Lloyd
Robert S. Loeb
Joseph A. Matthews
Hugh N. McClure
John H. McMillan
Walter L. Monroe
Harrell F. Morris
Lee D. Parker
Robert L. Pinck
Frederick H. Pitzer Jr.
Archer C. Puddington
Carter L. Refo

Louis S. Rehr
Green Rives dr.
Robert W. Root
Robert S. Rosenfeld
C Lane Sartor
Stanley L. Sater

Raymond A. Searfoss Jr.

Richard T. Sloan
Clyde E. Smith Jr.
James R. Sterrett
John W. Stowers
Glen F. Toalson
Robert T. Vaughan
Robert C. Walker
Leon J. Warms
Herbert M. Weed
Robert F. Wersel
Philip A. Wilhite Jr.
Gibson M. Wolfe
George A. Woolfenden
James H. Woosley
Richard T. Wright
Floyd K. Yeomans
Paul R. Zumkeller

CLASS OF 1943-A&L
Charles C. Adams
Donald H. Adams

D. R. Andrews

C. Westbrook Barritt
Richard E. Basile
Calhoun Bond

J. Tyler Bowie

Robert B. Brainard Jr.
Richard J. Bromley
A. Leon Cahn

Jay D. Cook Jr.
Richard E. Cooke
William R. Cory

Louis R. Coulling Jr.
Donald J. Crawford
Henry B. Crockett Jr.
Albert D. Darby Jr.
Ben W. Ditto
Emmett T. Drake

E. Waller Dudley
Leonard P. Eager ur.
William M. Easterlin
Joseph F. Ellis Jr.
Beverly T. Fitzpatrick
U. Grey Flowers
Robert L. Garges
Donald E. Garretson
John W. Goode Ur.
Franklin Gruesser
William C. Hamilton
Conrad L. Inman dr.
R. Francis Johnson
Harry C. Keller
Houston M. Kimbrough
S L Kopald Jr.
Robert S. Lambert Jr.
Allie H. Lane

James G. LaPlante
Stuart E. Lawrence
Joseph E. Lee

R. Gordon Long
Robert F. MacCachran
Alexander M. Maish
Douglas W. McCammish
James E. McCausland
William McCoy Jr.
John W. McGehee Jr.

 

Stanley R. Mitchell
Barton W. Morris Jr.
Corneal B. Myers
Russell H. Neilson
Morrison R. Nelson
William J. Noonan Jr.
Charles G. Orsinger
James S. Parsons
John N. Peeples
James W. Priest
Donald L. Richardson
Richard M. Roberts
Paul E. Sanders
Edward H. Scherr
Charles C. Schock Jr.
Marrion U. Scott
John P. Scully Jr.
Philip A. Sellers
William K. Sevier
Allen J. Sharitz

John C. Sherrard
Kenelm L. Shirk Jr.
Paul M. Shuford
Philip K. Shute

Leo J. Signaigo Jr.
Jay A. Silverstein
William G. Sizemore
Charles H. Smith Jr.
Ernest E. Smith
Roscoe B. Stephenson
Lawrence C. Sullivan dr.
Ralph S. Taggart
Horace K. Tenney III
Arthur Thompson Jr.
William A. Webster Jr.
William J. Wilcox dr.
Edwin A. Zelnicker Jr.

CLASS OF 1944-A&L
Alvin D. Aisenberg
Paul D. Barns Jr.
John L. Barrett
Frederick W. Bauer
Baird Brown

Earle P. Brown
William B. Bryan

G. Edward Calvert

C. Lynch Christian Jr.
Thomas D. Crittenden
G. Richard Cronin
Edward F. Devol Jr.
Edmund A. Donnan Jr.
Richard L. Duchossois
Richard C. Eglin
David R. Embry
Robert Ewing

Stuart M. Faison
Robbins L. Gates
William B. Geise Jr.
Robert R. Giebel
Howard Greenblatt

A. M. Harman dr.
Leon Harris dr.
George E. Haw Jr.
Richard L. Heard

G. Edward Heinecke
Alfred L. Heldman Jr.
John C. Hempel Jr.
E. Mason Hendrickson
A. Linwood Holton Jr.
Ewing S. Humphreys Jr.
Frank N. Jarvis

John P. Jordan
Joseph S. Keelty
Paul T. Kohr

William S. Latz
Edward P. Lyons ur.
William R. Malloy
William M. Manger
Haven W. Mankin
Edmund W. Marx
William Mclndoe Jr.
William P. McKelway
James M. McKinney
Charles A. Mead Jr.
Robert C. Mehorter
William R. Miller Il
Norvelle W. Moses
Grant E. Mouser /I//

 

William F. Noll dr.

William H. Oast Jr.
William F. Parkerson Jr.
Howard B. Peabody Jr.
William P. Peak

Donald H. Putnam Jr.
Richard Rockwell
Frederick B. Rowe

~John W. Runyan ur.

Everett J. Schneider Jr.

~ John Schuber Jr.

Robert H. Seal
John H. Sherman
Lloyd H. Smith dr.
Roger M. Soth
James C. Stanfield
John H. Stansfield
William M. Sterrett
William R. Talbott
Robert B. Taylor
John C. Theurer
Thomas B. Ulam
Fred M. Valz Jr.
William B. Van Buren III
Samuel C. Williams
Cullen F. Wimmer
George T. Wood

CLASS OF 1945-A&L
Edward B. Addison
Richard E. Bartlebaugh
Robert K. Billingslea Jr.
Robert Boucher

John H. Brooks

Harry F. Brown Jr.
John F. Burger

Paul R. Byrd

John H. Churchwell Jr.
Cortlandt S. Dietler
Owen R. Easley Jr
Edward B. Evans
Peter M. Fetterolf

E. Dean Finney

David W. Foerster
Walter E. Frye

Arthur J. Hack Jr.
Edwin H. W. Harlan dr.
Malcolm M. Hirsh

R. Edward Jackson
David L. Jones
Benjamin M. Kaplan
Omer T. Kaylor Jr.
Erwin D. Latimer III
Charles E. Lewis Jur.
Frank Markoe dr.
Myron McKee Jr.
Floyd W. McRae Jr.

L. Gordon Miller Jr.
Joseph P. Mingioli
Ellis O. Moore

G. Kinsley Noble
Harry H. Orgain Jr.
Philip P. Page Jr.

J. A. Philpott
Kenneth G. Puller
Charles S. Rowe
Elliot S. Schewel
John H. Sorrells Jr.
Charles C. Stieff Il
Collier Wenderoth Jr.
Joseph M. Zamoiski II

CLASS OF 1946-A&L
Hugh C. Allen

Daniel H. Ball

James F. Brewster
Frank C. Brooks
Robert S. Brown Jr.
John H. Cheatham Jr.
Fielder Cook

Rodney M. Cook Sr.
Sidney M. Coulling III
L. Rex Criminale
Patrick C. Devine

T. Ryland Dodson
Roy J. Fahl Jr.
Clarence N. Frierson
John Gately

Eugene E. Griese Jr.
David V. Guthrie Jr.

 

 

 

Louis R. Hahn Jr.
Robert C. Harter
Donald S. Hillman
John J. Kelly Il

J. Gordon Kincheloe
W. Hanes Lancaster Jr.
Thomas C. Lee
William A. Magee
Harold T. Mankin
Don R. Marsh Jr.
Theodore B. Martin
M. Pressly Mead
Robert W. H. Mish Jr.
George C. Morris Jr.
Donald R. Moxham
William C. Olendorf
James A. Ottignon
Dan C. Pinck

Barton P. Quaintance
Hugh E. Reams
Robert S. Richardson
Frederick C. Sage
John C. Short ur.
Philip J. Silverstein
Sherman J. Smith
Charles B. Tome
Charles M. Weeks
Harry W. Wellford
Charles J. Williamson III
Edmund S. Willis
Kenneth B. Wilson
Roger M. Winborne Jr.
Sheppard W. Zinovoy

CLASS OF 1947-A&L
James H. Baldwin
William T. Brotherton Jr.
Harold T. Chittum Jr.
Henry C. Clark
Mitchell L. Harris Jr.
Bernard F. Judy
Harrison B. Kinney
Warren G. Merrin Jr.
Robert A. Mosbacher
Joseph G. Patrick
William H. Pifer

William T. Ratliff Jr.
James H. Sammons

L. Roper Shamhart
Charles H. Shook
Robert A. Warms
Thomas R. Watkins
William M. Wilcox Jr.
Eugene B. Wright Jr.

CLASS OF 1948-A
Nate L. Adams I!
Julian C. Anderson
William M. Bernard
James F. Booker
William W. Burton
Donald E. Campbell
James A. Cranford Jr.
Marvin L. Daves
Francis A. Davis Jr.
Rutledge H. Deas Jr.
Gordon A. Fox

Elmer H. French Jr.
B. Stanley Gill Jr.
Frederick B. Gillette
Hardin M. Goodman
William L. Hopkins
Charles C. Hubbard
Walton W. Kingsbery Jr.
William F. Leffen
Andrew H. McCutcheon
Charles R. McDowell Jr.
Andrew C. McFall Jr.
James T. McKinstry
Selden S. McNeer Jr.
Johnson McRee Jr.
John E. Miller Jr.
Neilson November
Walter B. Potter
William H. Rattner
Fred L. Rush Sr.
Thomas A. Scott Jr.
Louis W. Shroyer Ill
John P. Stewart

 

Jesse W. Turner
Gilbert H. Wilson
Sterling W. Winn
Paul R. S. Yates

CLASS OF 1949-A
James A. Anderson III
Henry M. Barker
Michael J. Barrett Jr.
Brian Bell

Edward P. Berlin Jr.
Donald M. Bertram
Granville S. Bouldin
David M. Bower Jr.
Edward L. Bowie
Philip C. Braunschweig
D. Earl Brown Jr.
Robert G. Brown
David K. Caldwell
Leigh Carter

H. Glenn Chaffer
Warren L. Choate
Richard S. Cooley
Peter D. DeBoer
Bruce H. Donald
Frank C. Dorman Jr.
Norman Fischer Jr.
Roger M. Fritchie
William W. Graham III
James T. Graybeal
John C. Green ur.
Ben E. Grimm

H. Dana Grindy
John M. Guthrie
Henry H. Hicks
Harry H. Hill Jr.

Ray Hill Jr.

Thomas S. Hook Jr.
Carlton D. Johnson
Albert S. Kyle III
John T. Lanier Jr.
William E. Latture
Charles R. Lemon
Daniel J. Little

Burr W. Miller

H. Thorp Minister Jr.
Robert J. Moody
Paul J. B. Murphy dr.
Matthew W. Paxton Jr.
Robert T. Pickett III
Robert R. Reid Jr.
William R. Rice

Mark W. Saurs

Thomas E. Schneider Jr.

John S. R. Schoenfeld
Horace L. Smith Ill
William C. Smith Jr.

L. Vernon Snyder
Alan W. Spearman Jr.
Everette L. Taylor Jr.
Charles R. Treadgold
C. Tait Trussell
Richard H. Turrell
Kenneth H. Wacker
Connie K. Warren Jr.
Richard H. Whiteman
Walter H. Williams
Richard M. Yankee dr.

CLASS OF 1950-A
James Q. Agnew
John R. Baldwin

W. Hale Barrett
William P. Bennett
Richard F. Bidwell
Arthur A. Birney

W. Gill Brooks

Richard T. Brown
William L. Brown Jr.
Douglas |. Buck
Gerard A. Burchell Jr.
William S. Cale

John |. Carper

John S. Chapman

R. Dabney Chapman
William N. Clements II
John R. Cole

A. Christian Compton
W. Randolph Cosby Jr.

 

David S. Croyder
Rodolph B. Davenport III
Maurice Dick

Atwell Dugger

John C. Earle

Alfred H. Ebert Jr.

P. James Fahey
Joseph J. French ur.
Richard R. French
Gus A. Fritchie Jr.
Thomas C. Frost Jr.
George W. Ginn
Claiborne W. Gooch II//
Byron W. Graves
Thomas L. Guthrie
Albert H. Hamel

John F. Hardesty
Francis A. Hare
Houston H. Harte
Robert T. Helmen
Alexander R. Hill
Richard E. Hodges

W. Roy Hoffman Jr.
Curtis C. Humphris Jr.
Robert E. R. Huntley
Richard A. Hurxthal
Lawrence E. Jarchow
Bruce R. King Jr.
Clifford B. Latta

Lester H. Lewis Jr.
Ernest T. Love Jr.
Frank Love Jr.

Herbert A. Lubs Jr.
Francis W. Lynn
Donald A. Malmo
Robert H. Mauck
William H. Maynard Jr.

Charles F. A. McCluer dr.

John H. McCormack Jr.
Andrew W. McCulloch
James R. McDonald
Joseph H. McGee
John B. McKee Jr.
Oliver M. Mendell
Robert S. Mendelsohn
Clovis W. Moomaw
Roger H. Mudd

J. Peter G. Muhlenberg
F. Alden Murray Jr.

C. William Pacy II
Bruce S. Parkinson
Franklin S. Pease Jr.
George H. Pierson Jr.
Charles S. Plumb
Joseph H. Reese Jr.
Charles H. Robertson
Barnett Robinson Jr.
Paul B. ‘Root dr.

Isaac M. Scher
Robert F. Silverstein
Albert F. Sisk Jr.
Kenneth R. Stark Jr.
Howard L. Steele
Gerry U. Stephens

J. Glenwood Strickler
Robert W. Swinarton
James E. Taylor
James S. Taylor

W. Clay Thomson
Thomas T. Tongue II
C. Dwight Townes Jr.
William H. Townsend
James T. Trundle
Steve Ulaki Jr.

Allan M. Warner
William N. Weaver dr.
Lawrence V. Wheater
Millar B. White Jr.
George W. Whitehurst
Irvin H. Wicknick
John F. Wilhelm
Robert A. Williams Jr.
Wallace E. Wing Jr.
George R. Young

CLASS OF 1951-A
Merritt Abrash
Charles W. Agnor Jr.
George F. Arata Jr.

 

Thomas O. Bagley
Edward P. Bassett
William G. Bean Jr.
John K. Boardman Jr.
Thomas T. Bond
Donald W. Bourne
John L. Bowles
Howard Bratches
Robert H. Brown
Wesley G. Brown
Richard P. Cancelmo
James P. Carpenter
Stephen P. Coco
William R. Cogar
Wilby C. Coleman
Lewis P. Collins III
Marcus A. Cook III
Thomas A. Courtenay III
Waddy G. Currin

Eric G. Curry Jr.
William E. Daniel Jr.
Richard D. Davis
William R. Davis
Samuel D. Eggleston Jr.
Andrew J. Ellis Jr.
James C. Fenhagen II
Donald M. Fergusson
Peter E. Forkgen
Eugene E. Freeman Jr.
James F. Gallivan
Robert E. Glenn

John A. F. Hall Jr.
Pike Hall Jr.

Guy B. Hammond
John E. Hamrick
Arthur Hollins Ill
Samuel B. Hollis
William G. Her II
Robert J. Ingram Jr
J. Willis Johnson III
Alan L. Kaplan

John F. Kay dr.

John W. Kay

David C. G. Kerr
Joseph E. Kling

O. David Kulman
Peyton S. Kulman
William H. Kyle dr.
Lester |. Levine
Burton L. Litwin
Barton MacDonald
Kirby W. Malone
Joseph B. McCutcheon
Richard R. McDonald
A. Stevens Miles Jr.
Berryman V. Neal

A. Parker Neff

J. Prewitt Nelson
Barry T. Newbery
Milburn K. Noell Jr.
Townsend Oast
James N. Paradies
Herbert G. Peters /I/
Ferdinand Phillips Jr.
Robert T. Pittman
James W. Roberts Jr.
Richard D. Rosenfeld
W. Vance Rucker Jr.
David E. Ryer

Robert H. Salisbury Jr.
Richard W. Salmons
Franklin H. Simmons
Douglas M. Smith
Park B. Smith

Robert L. Smith dr.
Henry B. Stern
Richard B. Taylor
John |..Thompson ur.
Landon W. Trigg
Charles F. Tucker
Norfleet R. Turner
Frederick G. Uhimann
M. Theodore Van Leer
So! Wachtler

John C. Warfield
Thomas A. Wash
Henry J. Waters III

S. Ray West Jr.

 

William G. White
Richard E. Whitson Jr.
John R. Wittpenn
Thomas K. Wolfe Jr.
Anthony H. Woodson
Daniel S. Wooldridge Jur.

CLASS OF 1952-A
Russell K. Adams
John H. Allen

Eugene M. Anderson Jr.
T. S. Armistead

Frank A. Baer II
Richard G. Ballard
William F. Barron Jr.
Robert E. L. Batts Jr.
Robert M. Bayler
Perry L. Borom
George S. Boswell
Frank H. Callaham dr.
William M. Canby
Charles B. Castner Jr.
Ernest H. Clarke
Samuel E. E. Conklin
Grafton H. Cook Jr.
Joel B. Cooper
Edward C. Darling
Charles O. Dean Jr.
Richard A. Denny Jr.
Phillips M. Dowding
George E. Eagle
Henry G. Edmonds Jr.
Joseph J. Eisler
William G. Fuqua
Edward E. Gardiner
Thomas G. Gardner
Paul R. Giordani
James T. Gray
Robert S. Griffith Jr.
John B. Handlan I!
Thomas N. Harris
Harold N. Hill Jr.
William E. Hines
Henry L. Hopkins
William L. Horner Jr.
Alan S. Horowitz

Otis W. Howe Jr.
Helmut H. Huber

H. Marshall Jarrett
Henry W. Jones Jr.
Thomas W. Joynes Jr.
James W. Kidd

John J. Kindred III
Boyd H. Leyburn dr.
Lynn F. Lummus
William H. Lyon
Preston C. Manning Jr.
Robert A. Maslansky
Edward D. Matz Jr.
William R. Mauck
Wayne D. McGrew Jr.
Joseph Mendelsohn Ii
Thomas S. Miller
Julian B. Mohr |
David M. Murray
Orest Neimanis —
Cephas T. Patch II
George W. H. Pierson
Louis R. Putnam
Walter R. Randall
Frazier Reams Jr.
Kent Rigg

Philip Robbins

W. J. Kenneth Rockwell
Edwin F. Schaeffer Jr.
Robert D. Schenkel Jr.
George W. Seger
Thomas R. Shepherd
Donald L. Shuck
William C. Shuck II
Gideon N. Stieff Jr.
Robert W. Storey
Edwin Streuli Jr.
Roland E. Thompson
W. Yates Trotter Jr.

C. Byron Waites
James J. Walsh
Thomas R. Warfield
David L. Waters

W&L = 23

Dudley A. White dr.
John W. Willcoxon III
Henry |. Willett Jr.
Charles M. Williams
Donald K. Williams
Henry W. Williamson
Elisha W. Winfrey III
Lester E. Zittrain

CLASS OF 1953-A
Cecil R. Adams Jr.
William E. Baggs
Robert B. Bell

Hugh H. Bond

John |. Bowman Jr.
C. Randall Bradley
William D. Bruce

Ferd E. Carter

Gray C. Castle
Laurence G. Christie Jr.
Roy A. Craig Jr.
Crowell T. Dawkins Jr.
John R. Delahunty
Lewis Deschler |!
Leonard C. Dill Ill
John W. Dodd Jr. —
Samuel S. M. DuBois Jr.
Robert F. Duguay

M. Alton Evans Jr.
Herbert S. Falk Jr.
William H. Foster Jr.
Wyatt French

C. Craighead Fritsche
Owen B. Fuqua Jr.
James M. Gabler
Simon H. Galperin Jr.
Clark P. Garrecht
Hugh S. Glickstein
Herbert F. Gordon
Henry W. Grady Jr.
John D. Heard
Malcolm L. Holekamp
William M. Hollis Jr.
Sam B. Hulsey

Jay W. Jackson
William C. Jackson
Tyson L. Janney
John B. Kinkead
John R. Kremer Jr.
Peter J. Kurapka Jr.
Robert W. Latimer
John R. Lawson Jr.
Harold F. Lenfest
Stephen F. Lichtenstein
Charles R. Lovegrove
Robert J. Maccubbin
John D. Maguire

C. Scott May

George F. Maynard
Clyde S. McCall Jr.
Hayes C. McClerkin Jr.
John L. S. Northrop
John R. O'Connell Jr.
Samuel K. Patton
Alden M. Pitard
Daniel E. Popovich
Lee A. Putney
Leonard B. Ranson
William E. Rawlings
Melville P. Roberts Jr.
Mark H. Schaul dr.
Jan J. Schilthuis Jr.
Ellis B. Schulist

John M. Shaw
Isham M. Sheffield III
Barrett C. Shelton Jr.
Kenneth B. Sizer
Chester T. Smith Jr.
Kenneth F. Spence dr.
Edgar W. Spencer
George W. St. Clair
Clayton A. Stallworth
Guy T. Steuart Il
Webb E. Stevenson
Daniel C. Stickley Jr.
Rodney F. Stock ur.
S. A. Thayer

Robert H. Thomas

24 W&L

 

William V. Trollinger
Ruel W. Tyson

W. Temple Webber Jr.
John B. Wheeler
J. Edward Wise

CLASS OF 1954-A ©
James B. Andrews I/
Thomas E. Aschenbrener
Don P. Barbe

Earle S. Bates
Raymond F. Bee
Hugh L. Berryman
Creswell G. Blakeney Jr.
John M. Blume
James D. Bonebrake
Stuart J. Bracken
Paul K. Brock
Richard A. Busch
John R. Calvert
James C. Conner

J. Ellis Crosby Jr.

J. Robert Cross
Joseph H. Crute
Samuel L. Davidson
George S. Denning Jr.
Daniel D. Dickenson
Walter W. Diggs
Stanton E. Dossett |!
Horace D. Douty

J. S. Frantz

George H. Greer
Ehrick K. Haight
Richard T. Harbison
W. Allen Harrison
Daniel G. Hartshorn
Kent C. Horner
Frank T. Hundley Ii/
William B. Inabnet Jr.
Farris Jackson
William R. C. Jones
Thomas J. Kenny

Friedrich G. Lackmann Jr.

H. Gordon Leggett Jr.
Theodore V. R. Lenihan
J. Fletcher Lowe Jr.
Nicholas G. Mandak
Paul M. Maslansky
John Etchison McDonald
William D. McHenry

H. Victor Millner Jr.
George H. Mitchell Jr.
Sedgwick L. Moss
David R. Murphey III
Laurence C. Palmer
Ralph S. Park dr.
Frank A. Parsons
Robert O. Paxton
Overton P. Pollard
Harold J. Quinn Jr.
Newton H. Ray
Laurier T. Raymond Jr.
James C. Rich

Wilson H. Rider
Richard P. Ross
Howard V. Sanden
Richard H. Sherrill
Franklin L. Shipman Jr.
Jacob A. Sites
Stephen S. Sloan
Robert P. Smith Jr.
Walter E. Smith
Stephen H. Snow
Jerry G. South
Jason B. Sowell Jr.
Gordon M. Taylor
William B. Thompson
James R. Trimm
Henry A. Turner Jr.
Anthony Valen

Dirken T. Voelker
George B. Werthan
Donald E. West
William C. Williams
James R. Wingert Jr.
Wiley R. Wright Jr.
George M. Young

 

CLASS OF 1955-A
Kenneth L. Abernathy
H. Christopher Alexander
|. Thomas Baker
Charles J. Baldree
David M. Berlinghof
William D. Blake
Frederick F. Brace Jr.
Scott B. Clinton

M. Lewis Cope Jr.
William E. Cornelius
W. Andrew R. Dalton
Roland C. Davies Jr.
James D. Deacon
Ray B. Dinkel

John W. Englishman
William W. Farrar
Harry M. Ford Jr.
Anthony F. Gerike
Frank G. Gibson Jr.
Lowell D. Hamric
John T. Huddle

Walk C. Jones III
Richard Kops

William J. Lemon
Laurence Levitan
Richard G. Littlejohn
Robert H. Mann Jr.
J. Hardin Marion
David W. McCain
Conrad H. McEachern Jr.
Marvin P. Meadors Jr.
William S. Merrick Jr.
Guy P. Metcalfe Jr.
William E. Moore Jr.
Charles M. Patrick Jr.
M. Raymond Piland III
E. Stuart Quarngesser
O. Bertrand Ramsay
James A. Reeder
William R. Ritter Jr.
Anthony H. Sargent
Francis O. Schaefer Jr.
Eugene B. Sieminski Jr.
E. Naudain Simons II
Charles K. Slick

Raymond D. Smith Jr.

Harrison Somerville Jr.
John W. Stackhouse
William J. Stober II
Jerry F. Stone dr.
Rudolph J. Stutzmann
John M. Walbridge
David S. Weinberg

CLASS OF 1956-A
Arnold M. Applefeld
Charles R. Beall
Byron Berman

Sam H. Berry

Oscar H. L. Bing
Victor R. Bond

Philip H. Brasfield Jr.
Mark B. Davis Jr.
Charles E. Dobbs
Filis B. Drew Jr.
Michael R. Dubin
Henry H. Fisher
Dudley D. Flanders
Don E. Fryburger
Charles S. Gay

Earl S. Gillespie
Robert G. Gooch
Jean M. G. Grandpierre
Leonard C. Greenebaum
William T. M. Grigg
Edgar L. Grove
Richard B. Gwathmey
Allen Harberg

James H. Harvell III
William A. Henley
Theodore L. Hill Jr.
William H. Houston III
Peter J. Jacobs
Richard M. Johnston
Alfred O. Jones Jr.
John K. Kane Il
Sidmon J. Kaplan
Paul H. J. Krogh

 

Thomas O. Lawson
William D. Manning
James W. Marvin Jr.
Sanford R. Maslansky
Arthur W. McCain Jr.
J. Robert McHenry
Donald G. McKaba
John S. Meloy
Gunnar Miller

George F. Milligan

J. Marvin Moreland Jr.

William C. Norman Jr.
William B. Northrop

J. Richard O’Connell
G. Dewey Oxner Jr.
A. Bert Pruitt Jr.
James L. Pullen
James D. Ritter

C. Dudley Rodgers Jr.
Keith Rogers

Thomas D. Sale Jur.
George |. Smith Jr.
Kingswood Sprott Jr.
Hugh W. Stephens
Robert E. Stroud
Samuel A. Syme Jr.
Daniel B. Thompson II
William M. Turner dr.
Dederick C. W. Ward Ill
G. Carter Werth
Headley S. White Jr.
Thomas A. S. Wilson

CLASS OF 1957-A
Joseph M. Alanis
John R. Alford
Joseph A. Amato Jr.
Robert D. Ballantine
Ross H. Bayard

Sam Bendheim III
Richard H. Berry
John T. Boone Jr.
James M. Boswell
James R. Creel Jr.

H. Greig Cummings Jr.
Lloyd A. Dobyns Jr.
Charles M. Drum
Stanley M. Erdreich Jr.
Donald V. Farriss
Jon J. Fox Jr

John M. Garner
George S. Gee Ur.
John A. Gold
Leonard E. Goodman
Warren H. Goodwyn
John M. Ham
Donald W. Harper
Robert P. Hawkins III
Benjamin N. Hoover
John B. Howard
Morton P. ller
Joseph M. Jones Jr.
Kendall C. Jones
Charles C. Kannapell
William L. Kauffman
Charles W. King

Jan C. Koontz
Gilbert R. Ladd III
Robert H. Large

C. Peter Leininger III
Thomas V. Litzenburg
George M. Lupton Jr.
Alfred J. Magoline Jr.
A. Jackson Mason
Jesse N. McLane Jr.
Loren A. Mintz
Richard A. Moore
Robert |. Peeples

H. Merrill Plaisted III
Alexander B. Platt
Charles B. Richardson
Jeb J. Rosebrook
William J. Russell Jr.
Charles L. Sherman IV
William O. Shropshire
John W. Sinwell
Isaac N. Smith dr.
John M. Smith
Jordan M. Smith

 

Marquis M. Smith Jr.
Donald C. Spann
Thomas A. Speer
Harold A. Tarrant Jr.
John L. Wellford Jr.
Warren E. Wilcox Jr.

CLASS OF 1958-A

A. Lewis Allen
William B. Barnett
Ralph W. Baucum Jr.
Irwin R. Berman

J. Bayard Boyle Jr.
Thomas B. Branch Il
Kaj M. Brent

Manley P. Caldwell Jr.
Irvin N. Caplan
Robert W. Carney Jr.
Kenneth W. Chandler
Roger G. Clark
Sheldon Clark II
Malcolm A. Clinger Jr.
Page D. Cranford
Charles G. Crawford
James J. Crawford Jr.
Richard A. Davis
David M. Dawson

W. Rowland Denman
Rodger P. Doyle
Samuel C. Dudley
Glenn R. Fahrenthold
Donald R. Fowler
William M. France
Thomas C. Friedman
Edward M. George Jr.
Allan R. Gitter

John R. Hanson
Edward L. Harlow
Fred L. Heina

Charles M. Helzberg
Nixon C. Henley
Caton N. Hill Jr.

John G. Holland
Vernon W. Holleman Jr.
Farris P. Hotchkiss
John C. Huffard
Campbell Hutchinson III
Howard E. Jacobs
Archie O. Jenkins II
Avery B. Juhring
Thomas F. King Jur.
Wilfred M. Kullman Jr.
John L. Lancaster Ill
Henry F. LeBrun Jr.
Ainsley J. Lester II/
Joseph S. Lewis IV
James E. Lipscomb III
Edgar H. MacKinlay
E. Michael Masinter
Charles P. Mays Jr.

C. L. McCormick III
Allan J. Mead
Charles H. Miller Jr.
W. C. Miller

Charles E. Mochwart
John P. Moyer

Lee Mullins

David G. Noble
Charles E. Nolte Il
Warren Nuessle
Thomas P. O’Brien Jr.
Robert C. Pearson

O. Brooks Pollock Jr.
Harry L. Pressley Jr.
James W. Reid
Theodore G. Rich ur.
Robert A. Richards

J. Kenneth Sadler Jr.

~ Rufus L. Safford

R. Lawrence Smith
Charles R. Spencer Jr.
Nelson S. Teague
George S. Thompson
Rice M. Tilley Jr.

John L. Tucker

James W. Van Cleave Ill
Richard S. Vedder
Edgar A. Wallace

K. William Waterson Jr.

——s) ig lea eaeleaalaniaimas iittala |

Hal C. Whitaker
James L. Whitlock
Charlton M. Wilder
William |. Winchester
Madison B. Wright Jr.
W. Kelly Young

CLASS OF 1959-A
Walter L. Ansell

C. DuBose Ausley
Edgar M. Baber
Robert D. Bohan

Thomas H. Broadus Jr.

Charles D. Broll
Thomas B. Bryant III
Richard C. Butler III
Salvatore R. Casella
Charles W. Cole Jr.

Joseph L. Craycroft Jr.

James M. Crews Jr.
Richard F. Cummins
Clinton M. Early

Irvin Ebaugh III

John H. Esperian
Ralph M. Evans

John C. Fay Jr.
Anthony J. Frank
John P. Freeman
David G. Glendy
James C. Goar
Arthur |. Gottsegen
Arthur S. Grove Jr.
Dwight L. Guy
Edward F. Halsell Jr.
Owen H. Harper
Edward B. Harris Jr.
William S. Harrison
John D. Hattendorf
C. Royce Hough Ill
Albert C. Hubbard Jr.
Bertrand R. Hudnall II
William K. Hughes
Charles D. Hurt Jr.
Phillip A. Insley
Robert G. Jacob

Don K. Joffrion
Thomas G. Johnson
Robert R. Kane

Evan J. Kemp Jr.
Robert C. Ketcham
Daniel W. Kling

Paul G. Knox

John G. Koedel Ur.
John C. Kotz

Tom L. Larimore
Lewis H. LaRue

L. Geoffrey Lawrence
Junius M. Lemmon
Edward D. Levy Jr.
Robert B. Levy
Edward R. Lilly Jr.
George N. Lockie
James R. Loutit
Bruce Macgowan

J. Stephen Marks III
John K. Matthews
John W. McCallum Jr.
Samuel S. Merrick
Peyton G. Middleton Jr.
M. Daniel Miller III
Thomas M. Moore

H. Donald Morine

H. Gary Pannell
Dennis W. Patton
John A. Paul

William H. Pixton
David C. Poteet
Richard A. Powell
Edward M. Reaves
David B. Root

Edwin P. Sapinsley Jr.
Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
Donald W. Sigmund
William F. Simpson Jr.
Jerald H. Sklar
Laurence M. Smail

H. Holden Smith

L. Voigh Smith
Arnold L. Steiner

 

Andrew T. Treadway
Francis B. Van Nuys
Murray M. Wadsworth
Jesse H. Webb Jr.
Charles E. Wellman
Raymond P. White
Jere H. Williams
James A. Wood

CLASS OF 1960-A
Leigh B. Allen III
Michael D. Applefeld
Douglas E. Barnard

F. James Barnes III
John J. Barnes Jr.
Frederick H. Belden Jr.
Edward Bell Jr.

F. Fox Benton Jr.

Louis R. Bloodworth Jr.

William B. Blundin
Rockwell S. Boyle Jr.
Daniel F. Bridges
Robert A. Broh
James H. Brown Jr.
Charles G. Buffum III
Malcolm B. Burton
Edward E. Calhoun
Hugh L. Campbell
Charles S. Chamberlin
John W. Clark dr.
William H. Clark dr.
Richard W. Cohen
Oliver T. Cook
Edward A. Corcoran
John T. Crone V
Robert R. Davidson
John C. Dawson Jr.
Barton A. DePalma
Robert L. Elder

Max L. Elliott

Allen M. Ferguson
Barry M. Fox

William M. Gibson
Thomas W. Gilliam dr.
Frank S. Glaser
Edward F. Good
James |. Greene

W. Preston Greene Jr.
Jack C. Groner
Philip G. Grose Jr.
John J. Haun
Joseph E. Hess
Robert C. Hinkel
John B. Hoke ur.
John S. Hopewell
Louis Horst dr.
Harley B. Howcott Jr.
Hoyle C. Jones
Julian C. Josey Jr.
Carter S. Kaufmann
Stephen K. Kent Jr.
David N. Keys
Randolph B. Kilmon
John M. Kirk
Malcolm Lassman
Robert G. Lathrop
Peter J. Lee

Daniel B. Leonard
Harvey R. Levine
William G. Loeffler Jr.
Rayman R. Lovelace
Henry M. Marks III
Sandy C. Marks Jr.

William G. McKenzie Jr.

Richard E. Miller
Stephen D. Miller
Clifton D. Mitchell
Charles N. Monsted Jr.
Charles T. Morse
John A. Morton
Willoughby Newton III
Arthur E. O’Dell Jr.
Thornton W. Owen Jr.
David D. Pitard

J. Davis Reed III
John L. Reynolds Jr.
Joseph E. Ringland
Gordon E. Rountree
A. Prescott Rowe

 

William W. Schaefer
Charles C. Sherrill
Mervyn F. Silverman
Joseph J. Smith II
Charles W. Springer
Walter R. Staub Jr.

J. Frank Surface Jr.
W. Jere Tolton Jr.

J. Thomas Touchton
David K. Weaver

J. Walter Weingart
James M. White III
John C. White
Richard K. White Jr.
Raymond E. Wooldridge

CLASS OF 1961-A

J. Harvey Allen Jr.
Raleigh R. Archer
Haywood M. Ball
Charles W. Baucum
Kenneth S. Beall Jr.
George Y. Birdsong
Roy E. Bowen

William M. Bowen
Charles C. Bowie Jr.
Jack H. Breard Jr.

J. Alfred Broaddus Jr.
J. Malcolm Brownlee Jr.
A. Clayton Bryan Jr.
Thomas W. Budd
William T. Buice III
Louis H. Burford
David D. Carothers
Dwight R. Chamberlain
George N. Chandler |!
Philip W. Conaway
David F. Cook
Stanley A. Cook
Richard A. Cowles Jr.
Walter J. Crater Jr.
Drew P. Danko
Stephen |. Danzansky
William W. Davis

Calvert G. DeColigny Jr.

E. John Dinkel III

C. Howard Drexel
Joseph C. Elgin dr.
John R. Farmer
William J. Fidler Jr.

J. Carter Fox

Graham D. S. Fulton
Robert J. Funkhouser Jr.
Edward J. Gay III
William V. Giles Jr.
Perry L. Gordon
Marshal |. Gottsegen
James H. Hamersley
Russell E. Harner
William H. Heald
Roger D. Holden
Richard W. Hoover
Norbert W. Irvine
William R. Johnston
John H. Karrh III
Fleming Keefe
Kenneth Kleeman
Richard L. Kuersteiner
Richard W. Lacy
Edward B. Ladd
Courtney R. Mauzy Jr.
William B. McWilliams
Edward F. Meyers Jr.
Edson B. Olds IV
Robert K. Park ||
Donald H. Partington
William S. Proctor
Maurice E. Purnell Jr.
William L. Quillen
Ronald L. Randel |
Robert G. Rappel
Howard Rosenbloom
A. Douglas Salmon III
Milford F. Schwartz Jr.
Richard S. Sharlin

J. Walter Shugart III
Nathan P. B. Simpson
Charles H. Smith
Reginald M. Smith Jr.

[

 

W. Latimer Snowdon Jr.
Albert J. Storey Jr.
Peter T. Straub

Bob A. Street Jr.
Samuel C. Strite Jr.
Stephen L. Thompson
Marshall Timberlake

E. Darracott Vaughan Jr.

Brian H. Vitsky

Edgar B. Wertheimer Ill
Jerry S. Wilbourn
Frank B. Wolfe Ill

CLASS OF 1962-A
Peter A. Agelasto Ill
Ronald H. Alenstein
William R. Anderson Jr.
Stanley P. Atwood
William C. Boyd III
John W. Boyle Jr.
Wayne A. Bradshaw
L. David Callaway III
Aubrey B. Calvin
James W. Carty Jr.
Stephen R. Chernay
Paul B. Clemenceau
Peter G. Conrad

‘ Charles S. Cook

Alan M. Corwin
Thorns Craven

H. Allen Curran
Hayward F. Day Jr.
W. Barton Dick
Robert S. Doenges
Beverly M. DuBose III
G. T. Dunlop Ecker
John O. Edmunds Jr.
Robert E. Eikel

Ralph L. Elias Jr.

N. Rickard Frisbie
Steven A. Galef
Charles E Gay IV
Joseph L. Goldstein
R. Roy Goodwin II
Thompson W. Goodwin
Guy N. Graham

Jay C. Green

James A. Gwinn Jr.
Pearce D. Hardwick
Henry C. Hawthorne Jr.
Samuel |. Hellman
Michael N. Herndon
James C. Hickey Jr.
W. Hayne Hipp
James K. Hitch I/
Edward P. Hobbs
Henry D. Holland
George E. Honts III
Rupert H. Johnson Jr.
Richard S. Jones
Harry F. Kurz Jr.
Ernest F. Ladd III
Robert P. Lancaster
Jeffery D. Lasher
Vincent T. Lathbury III
Robert D. Lewis
John A. Martin
Donald H. McClure
Alan M. McLeod
Thomas L. Melgaard Jr.
Gene Melton
Benjamin P. Michel
Russell B. Miller

R. King Milling

E. Warren Mills
Barton S. Mitchell
Michael H. Monier

J. Leyburn Mosby Jr.
William G. Moseley
Mason T. New
Charles J. Niemeyer
Theodore L. Oldham
Robert J. Osborne
Wesley R. Ostergren
William D. Outman II
Rosewell Page III
Hugh K. Paton Jr.
John L. Payne

Leslie H. Peard III

 

George M. Peters
John W. Poynor
Venable B. Proctor
Bruce A. Ratcliff
Kerry E. Reynolds
William L. Roberts Jr.
James A. Russ
James S. Sagner
Philip D. Sharp Jr.
James W. Smith
John H. Soper !/
James H. Starkey III
Robert L. Stone
Stephen H. Suttle
Willard S. Taylor
Harry Teter Jr.

David K. Tharp
Walfred B. Thulin Jr.
John R. Trible II

E. Monty Tucker
David C. Tyrrell Jr.
George H. Van Sciver
John W. Vardaman Jr.
Charles W. Via

John P. White
Robert C. Wood !I/

CLASS OF 1963-A

A. J. Alexander Jr.
Thomas G. Andrew Jr.
Daniel T. Balfour
Rufus K. Barton III
Daniel Blain dr.
Thomas E. Bower
Charles R. Brandt |/
Robert M. Briede
Robert C. Browne
Thomas M. Brownlee
Thomas A. Bunkley Jr.
Landon V. Butler Jr.
C. Vance Campbell ur.
James M. Campbell
Keith A. Carr

George M. Chapman Jr
R. Meade Christian Jr.
D. Randolph Cole Jr.
John P. Cover

Walter E. Cox

A. Neil Crawford Jr.
John O. Culley

Ruge P. DeVan Ill
Theodore A. Doremus Jr.
Matthew T. Douglass
William M. Durrett
R.Thomas Edwards I|//
Rodger W. Fauber
Henry A. Fenn Jr.
John M. Fowler

Edwin P. Garretson Jr.
Joel L. Goozh
Stephen E. Guild
Wilmot L. Harris Jr.
Charles C. Hart
Robert D. Hart Jr. .
George W. Harvey Jr.
James M. Henderson
H. Kirkland Henry dr.
Edward W. Holmes Jr.
Joseph P. Howson
Warren B. Hughes Jr.
J. Winston Ivey

D. Eldredge Jackson III
Omer L. Jeter Jr.
Allan H. Johnston
Watkins C. Johnston Jr.
John A. Kiely

Ronald L. King

Walter E. Klaas dr.
Henry H. Knight II

E. Ross Kyger Ill
Eugene A. Leonard

J. G. McGiffin III
William B. MacKenney III
R. Hunter Manson III
Edwin P. McCaleb
Charles T. McCord Ill
Thomas P. McDavid
John T. Mills

Thomas T. Moore Jr.

W&L 25

J. Holmes Morrison
John H. Mullin Ill

G. Andrew Nea Jr.
Hamlet T. Newsom
Lewis G. Noe Jr.

W. Allen Northcutt III
Edward B. Ostroff
John M. Owen

David F. Peters

Lee G. Price

Thomas P. Rideout
Bruce H. Roberson
Walker Y. Ronaldson Jr.
Louis A. Rosenstock III
Michael J. Shank
Andrew A. Smith Jr.
Nicholas S. Smith
David T. H. Spencer
Stephen H. Stull
James L. Surface
Michael D. Sussman
David C. Swann

J. Brantley Sydnor
Samuel D. Tankard III
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr.
John C. Thurmond

G. McNeir Tilman
John E. Tipton
Joseph L. Topinka
Hugh H. Trout Ill

J. Richard Uhlig ||
Robert M. M. Van Rensselaer
H. Michael Walker

N. Dudley Warwick Jr.
Peter M. Weimer
Sherwood W. Wise ur.
Donald A. Wyly

Frank M. Young III
Robert A. Young III

CLASS OF 1964-A
Alonzo Atkins Jr.

John F. Bartlett

Peter D. Blakeslee
Frederic W. Boye III
Kenneth E. Brandenburgh
Arthur E. Broadus
Thomas M. Brumby IV
Joseph R. Burkart

F. William Burke

Jay M. Caplan
Benjamin L. Chapman
Bruce T. Chosney
John W. Clark Jr.

Paul R. Cockshutt Jr.
Richard C. Colton Jr.
Frederick E. Cooper
Richard A. Coplan
Edward S. Croft III
John M. Dixon

John Duncan Il!
Alfred E. Eckes Jr. .

26 W&L

 

Johnny P. Edwards Jr.
Philip R. Farnsworth
Robert C. Farrar Jr.
Charlie C. Flippen dr.
Robert O. Foerster III
Lester M. Foote
Martin E. Galt III
Brice R. Gamber
Thomas Robbins Green
Barry A. Greene
Kenneth E. Greer
Smith Hickenlooper I//
John E. Hilker

H. W. Holden

Warren P. Hopkins
Matthew H. Hulbert
Alvin B. Hutzler II

J. Michael Jenkins III
Charles G. Johnson
Robert A. Kell

Wilmot H. Kidd III
Charles D. Kimbell
John H. Kirkley
Frederick J. Krall
Arthur G. Kroos III
Kenneth P. Lane Jr.
Michael E. Levin
Thomas C. Lewis
Bruce R. MacDonald
John M. Madison Jr.
James S. Maffitt 1V
Howard W. Martin Jr.
James B. McCeney
John M. McDaniel III
Douglas McDowell
Richard W. McEnally
Floyd W. McKinnon
Lewis B. McNeace Jr.
Dennis R. Morgan

J. Hobson Morrison Jr.
William A. Noell Jr.
John C. Norman Jr.
W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr.
Henry D. Ormsby III
Charles C. Owens
Robert A. Paddock
Donald Palmer

Harry L. Parlette III
John Y. Pearson Jr.
Samuel W. Pipes IV
Cotton Rawls Jr.
Judson P. Reis
Consider W. Ross
Leslie C. Rucker Jr.
Henry M. Sackett III
John M. Samet
Charles B. Savage
Bernard M. Shapiro
Conway H. Sheild Ill
Nicholas R. Simmons
George T. Sisler

 

Herbert F. Smith
Burton B. Staniar
Spencer R. Stouffer
Matthew G. Thompson
Peter S. Trager

C. Fox Urquhart III

E. Stephen Walsh

Gus B. Walton Jr.
John W. Wescoat

J. Bruce Whelihan
George C. Wick Jr.
Eric H. Wilson

John T. Winebrenner
Rex H. Wooldridge

E. Randolph Wootton Jr.
Jack Yarbrough

CLASS OF 1965-A
David H. Adams

C. Edmonds Allen |I/
G. Ashley Allen
Mark M. Applefeld
Gordon L. Archer
Joe F. Bear Jr.
Walter H. Bennett Jr.
James R. Boardman
Warren K. Bolton
William G. Broaddus
Brooks G. Brown III
Joel W. Brown:
Blaine A. Brownell
James C. Bussart
Howard W. Busse
Alfred J. T. Byrne
Richard N. Carrell
Hal S. Chase
Jeffrey G. Conrad

A. Craig Cotton
William S. David
Jaquelin H. De Jarnette
James W. DeYoung
Gustave R. Dubus III
Broughton M. Earnest
E. Robert Elicker ||
David M. Ellis
Gregory E. Euston
Adam J. Fiedler
George M. Fisher IV
Kiah T. Ford III

Jean S. Friedberg Jr.
Dan J. Friedman Jr.
Victor R. Galef
Jolyon P. Girard

Kirk A. Griffin

John E. Griggs III
Baird S. Grimson
Douglas D. Hagestad
C. Tracy Harrington
Richard C. Hartgrove
John W. Hunt
Stewart M. Hurtt

 

 

Stephen G. Hussey
William H. Jamison
James W. Jennings Jr.
John E. Jennings

H. Daniel Jones III
James D. Kannapell
Robin S. Kent
Andrew C. Kilpatrick
Richard R. Kreitler
William P. Lancaster Jr.
Melvyn J. Lapes
Robert E. Lee III
William D. S. Lee
John R. Lewis III
Richard M. Livingston
George F. Madison
Alan L. Marx

Michael S. McCord
Joseph S. McDaniel Ill
Larry M. Meeks
Michael J. Michaeles
Hullihnen W. Moore
Ronald W. Moore

J. Malcolm Morris
Paul S. Murphy
Woodard D. Openo
Louie A. Paterno Jr.
Robert B. Patton

S. Reed Paynter
Eugene L. Pearce II/
Peter M. Preston
George W. Price Ill
William L. Price III
Alexander P. Rasin III

Patterson H. Robertson !

John T. Roettger
George M. Sanders
Max L. Shaoira
Arthur B. Sher

Sam P. Simpson IV
Robert F. Stauffer
Frederick A. Stone
Thomas E. Stover
Chris Sturm

Royal Terrell Jr.
Robert G. Thomas
David W. Trussell
Timothy A. Vanderver Jr.
John D. Wallace
Joseph G. Wheeler
Jesse F. Williams [I]
John F. Wolfe

M. Lanier Woodrum
Norman Yoerg Ur.

CLASS OF 1966-A
John D. Anderson
John L. Baber III
Robert J. Bailey
Andrew N. Baur
Charles N. Bensinger Jr.
Kenneth L. Bernhardt
James K. Bruton Jr.
Stephen S. Case
Robert E. Chambers Jr.
Mercer K. Clarke
Charles F. Clement
Edward B. Crosland Jr
James A. Crothers //

T. Todd Dabney Jr.
Harry Dennery

William T. Deyo Jr.
Thomas M. Edwards
Maurice R. Fliess
Samuel H. Frazier
Harry G. Goodheart Ill
Charles N. Griffin II

S. Birnie Harper

W. David Hasfurther
Eugene A. Hatfield
Lawrence K. Hellman
Thornton M. Henry
Robert B. Hudson III
James D. Humphries III
J. Pegram Johnson III

_Charles W. Jones

John E. Kelly Iil
Thomas R. Kelsey

 

Michael E. Lawrence
Randy H. Lee

Donald J. Lineback
Hendrick W. Manley

J. Michel Marcoux
Harris J. Maslansky
David J. Mathewson Jr.
Charles B. Mayer
Kenneth O. McGraw
John C. McMurry

Val S. McWhorter
Lewis N. Miller Jr.
Phillip D. Mollere
John C. Moore

Jon R. Neergaard
Wallace Niedringhaus Jr.
Tabor R. Novak dr.
Lawrence E. Orme
Robert Orr Jr.

Duncan E. Osborne
John A B Palmer
David D. Redmond
Charles W. Reese Jr.
Joseph W. Richmond Jr.
Bruce W. Rider

John H. Rutherford
Paul R. Schlesinger
Alfred L. Shapleigh II
Eric L. Sisler

Walter W. Stelle

James C. Sumner

E. Starke Sydnor
Gerard T. Taylor
Robert C. Vaughan III
C. Ganahl Walker III
William C. Washburn Jr.
Kemble White |il
William R. Wilson dr.
Frank G. Young

M. Neely Young II

CLASS OF 1967-A
lra R. Adams

Richard D. Allen
Christopher F. Armstrong
William N. Baker
Edward E. Bates Jr.
Edward N. Beachum
David P. Bendann Jr.
S. Bryan Benedict
Robert G. Bigham
Robert R. Black

Roger A. Blair
Richard D. Bradford
William J. Bridges III
Ward W. Briggs Jr.
Gregory E. Brooks Jr.
Roger S. Brown
Logan M. Bullitt IV
Nathaniel E. Clement
Philip L. Cline

Alan G. Cohen

Ernest |. Cornbrooks III
Thomas C. Davis III

R. Tracy Duggan III
Howard S. Epstein —
J. G. Blaine Ewing III
W. Lawrence Fellman
Stuart Finestone
William M. Flatau
Marshall K. Follo
Benjamin D. S. Gambill Jr.
Guy M. Glenn

John S. Graham III
Kenneth M. Greene
P. Rowland Greenwade
Thomas J. Hardin Il
Tyree B. Harris IV
Charles C. Hart
William A. Hartman
James R. Hickam

J. Aldwin Hight Jr.
Thomas J. Holden Ill
J. McDaniel Holladay
John K. Hopkins
William S. Hulse
William H. Jeffress Jr.
S. Bryant Kendrick Jr.

SF ve

LeRoy W. Krumperman Jr.

J. Howard Luck

H. Davis Mayfield III
Thomas J. McCarthy Jr.
Guyte P. McCord III
Stephen T. McElhaney
John R. McGill

Bruce B. McKeithen
John R. Miller
Douglas C. Morrison
Clinton S. Morse
John T. Morse

Harold W. Nase
Michael K. Nation
Theodore K. Oates ||
David W. Ogilvy
James W. Oram Jr.
Robert |. Ostroff

Lee Parsons

James H Price Ill
Robert B. Priddy
Randall L. Prior
Edward B. Robertson Jr.
Bradford A. Rochester
Robert B. Scott Jr.
Bradford Shinkle IV
Frederic P. Skinner
William H. Sledge
John C. B. Smith Jr.
Wood T. Sparks
Jamie A. Stalnaker
Paul R. Stanton
Charles T. Staples
Henry P. B. Staunton
Guy M. Sterling Jr.
Warren E. Stewart
Aron L. Suna

Edward A. Supplee Jr.
James A. Tyler Jr.
William L. Walker dr.
William L. Want
Robert E. Watkins
John J. Werst III
William S. Wildrick
John H. Zink III

CLASS OF 1968-A
Robert F. Aldrich

J. Devon Allen

John H. Anthony
Jack J. Applefeld
Edmund H. Armentrout
L. C. Atkins II

John W. Ballantine
James W. Bartlett III
James B. Batterson
James L. Beckner Jr.
Edward L. Bishop Ill
Andrew L. Blair Jr.

A. Rodney Boren Jr.
James M. Boyd Jr.

M. Ray Bradford Jr.
Jeffrey T. Briggs
Randolph W. Brinton
Paul A. Brower
William D. Brown
Corbet F. Bryant Jr.
Russell V. L. Buxton Jr.
C. Howard Capito

N. Taylor Carlson
John M. Carson
Robert B. Carter
Robert A. Cashill
Carlile M. Chambers
Christopher B. Chandor
Richard T. Clapp
Harold E. Clark Jr.
Andrew B. Cleverly

R. Noel Clinard
Dudley D. Cocke Jr.
William A. Colom dr.
Patrick B. Costello

W. Reid Cox Jr.
Theodore J. Craddock
Allen B. Craig Ill

John R. Crigler
James J. Dawson
James D. Desouza
Richard T. Doughtie III

 

George J. Dover
Donald R. Ellis Jr.

F. Strait Fairey Jr.
Robert C. Gastrock
Martin R. Glickstein
Henry R. Gonzalez Jr.
F. Cary Green Jr.

Frank R. Greer

Charles C. Harrold III
W. Christopher Hart
Malcolm T. Hartman
Nelson H. Head
Kazimierz J. Herchold
Jon T. Hulsizer
Donovan D. Husat
Robert D. Hutchens
Edward |. Hutchins Jr.
McClanahan Ingles

W. Thomas Ingold
Frank A. Jackson

Rolly W. Jacobs
Eugene R. Jacobsen III
Benjamin H. Johnson Ill
Alexander S. Jones
Robert S. Keefe

Mavis P. Kelsey Jr.

Houston M. Kimbrough Jr.

Roane M. Lacy Jr.
John H. Lawrence Jr.
Jeffrey G. Lawson
John M. Lee

William M. Lee Jr.
Barry J. Levin

Charles C. Lewis
Leslie D. Locke

Robert R. Logan
David B. Long

James R. Madison
Clarence B. Manning
Kirk R. Manning

Eric P. Mantz

Joseph A. Matthews Jr.
Robert V. May Jr.
Frederick A. Meiser Jr.
Mike E. Miles

Newton B. Miller
Robert T. Miller

Robert H. Moll
Michael G. Morgan
Wesley W. Murfin
Richard H. Nash Jr.
John R. Nazzaro
Corydon C. Nicholson II
William H. Norcross
Thomas W. Pettyjohn Jr.
Tom L. Pittman Jr.
Samuel B. Preston

L. Holmes Raker

John R. Reynolds
John W. Rice Jr.
William P. Ridley III
William C. Schaefer

~ Ralph W. Schenkel

Joseph G. Seay

J. Oakley Seibert

S. Gates Shaw
Stephen K. Shepherd
H. Gilbert Smith Jr.
Robert J. Smith
Michael J. Spector
Lane B. Steinger
Geoffrey L. Stone
William F. Stone Jr.
Harold C. Stowe
Peter R. Strohm
John B. Swihart
Howard K. Tayloe Jr.
J. Jeffrey Thistle

D. Whitney Thornton I!
Charles B. Tomm
Peter W. Tooker
Wilson F. Vellines Jr.
H. William Walker Jr.
John H. Ward IV

W. Emory Waters
Stephen H. Watts //
Robert M. Wein
James W. Whitehead Jr.

 

Gary P. Wilkinson
Fielding L. Wilson Jr.
Richard W. Wilson
Wendall L. Winn Jr.
E. Ellis Zahra Jr.

CLASS OF 1969-A
Patrick K. Arey
Robert G. Armstrong
Thomas P. Atkins
Willis M. Ball ill

J. McFerran Barr II
Michael C. Barr
Richard H. Bassett
Morris C. Benners Jr.
Anthony F. Berliner
Leonard A. Blanchard
H. Laurent Boetsch Jr.
Michael L. Bramley

J. Gillum Burke

R. Gillis Campbell
Hugh A. Carithers Jr.
John F. Carrere Jr.
Clark H. Carter

Allen R. Caskie
Joseph T. Chadwick Jr.
Burnet H. Chalmers
James M. Chance
Charles R. Chittum
William J. Cook

Alan H. Cooper
Gregory B. Crampton
Joseph H. Davenport Ill
H. Ward Dorer |
David L. Dowler
Bruce E. Downing

~ Dennis S. Drexler

Dan T. Dunn Jr.
Mark R. Eaker
Douglas R. Engle
David C. Ennis
Jorge E Estrada M
William D. Falvey
John S. Fechnay
Reinhard W. Fischer
Harold F. Gallivan III
William L. Gilmer

J. Barton Goodwin
David G. Gordon
Lee Halford Jr.
James C. Hamill Jr.
David W. Hardee I//
Ray V. Hartwell II/
Samuel D. Hinkle IV
J. Ward Hunt

David D. Jackson
Walter S. Jones
Leon D. Katz

Neil S. Kessler
William J. Kimmel III
Rufus D. Kinney
Michael J. Kline
Richard E. Kramer
Alan W. Lee

Alan M. LeVine
James J. Livesay
Walter S. Lockhart III
Glen P. Mattox
Fletcher F. Maynard Jr.
Donald C. McClure Jr.
William T. McCutchen
Brittain McJunkin
William J. McLeod Jr.
L. Richards McMillan II
Christopher P. Meyer
Thomas P. Mitchell
Thomas W. Mullenix
Geoffrey C. Orth

R. Stephens Pannill
Gregory E. Parker
Ralph E. Pearcy I/
Jerald L. Perlman

J Alvin Philpott Jr.
Richard M. Preston
Robert E. Price
Michael W. Pustay
Thomas E. Robinson

 

Henry L. Roediger Ill
H. Daniel Rogers Jr.
L. Phillips Runyon Ill
Marc A. Schewel
Peveril O. Settle III
Donald A. Sharpe
David T. Shufflebarger
Gary D. Silverfield
John G. Simmons
Thomas K. Slabaugh
Michael C. Stevens
Alexis Tarumianz Jr.
R. Alan Tomlin
James A. Truss
Garland S. Tucker III
William C. Tyler
Edwin B. Vaden Jr.
Tinkham Veale III
Julian W. Walthall
Robert F. Wersel Jr.
John T. Whetstone III
Joseph C. Wich Jr.
William R. Wilkerson II
Harry M. Wilson III
Robert W. Wipfler
John A. Wolf

Kirk Woodward

Harry J. Zeliff

CLASS OF 1970-A

F. Sheldon Anderson Jr.

Richard H. Antell

C. T. Armstrong
Richard B. Armstrong
John D. Baizley
Bryan Baldwin

H. Walter Barre I!
George Z. Bateh
Gordon W. Beall
Bruce O. Beckman
John M. Bernard
Scot A. Brower
Charles C. Cahn Jr.
Richard W. Capron
William A. Childs Jr.
Douglas E. Clarke
Kenneth M. Clayton
Edward W. Coslett ///

_ Christopher D. Coursen

Gregory J. Digel
Philip D. Douglass
Richard F. Dunlap Jr.
Gilbert J. Eaton
Robert L. Entzminger
Mark S. Evans

Stuart C. Fauber
Albert T. Fechtel Jr.
J. David Field

Frank E. Fisher Jr.
Henry A. Fleishman
Thomas O. Fleming Jr.
W. John Francisco Jr.
C. Gilbert Frank
David R. Frankstone
William W. Goodrich
Thomas C. Groton Ill
Hugh B. Guill
George W. Hamlin
Brent G. Hankins
David P. Haydu
Marvin C. Henberg
Christopher R. Herchold
Gary D. Herman
David K. Higgins
Gregory L. Holmes
Charles A. Holt Jr.
Lawrence E. Honig
David L. Hull

Curt B. Jamison

L. Clarke Jones Ill
David R. Katz

John M. Kefauver Jr.
Reeve W. Kelsey
Dan M. Leonard

F. Miles Little

Bruce R. MacQueen
Lee B. Madinger
James H. Maloney Jr.

 

Christopher R. Martin
Roger S. Martin
Steven P. Maslansky
James O. Mathews Jr.
Daniel C. McDavitt
James C. McElroy
Thomas N. McJunkin
Michael T. McVay
James A. Meriwether
Bruce A. Meyers
John E. Miller
Sheldon J. Miller
Homer L. Mixson Jr.
Lawrence H. Morrison
Norwood O. Morrison
John D. Muncks ur.
Gary L. Murphy
Michael R. Murphy
Michael C. G. Neer
Benjamin C. Paden
Clinton B. Palmer III
E. Owen Perry Iil
John A. Phillips Jr.
William R. Phillips
William F. Rector Jr.
Hal S. Rhea

Thomas D. Robson
Robert W. Root dr.
Bruce S. Samuels
Martin F. Schmidt Jr.
Byron R. Seward
Donald C. Smith
Douglas W. Smith
Michael J. Spoor
Daniel B. Startsman Jr.
Charles M. Stone
Paul S. Sugar
Andrew B. Thomas
Philip J. Tissue
Robert P. Trout
Willard B. Wagner III
Kennon C. Walden Jr.
Gerald W. Weedon
John E. Wetsel Jr.
William A. Wilson Jr.
W. Whitlow Wyatt
Robert H. Yevich

CLASS OF 1971-A
H. John Ackerman
James R. Allen
Thomas H. Alphin Jr.
Charles D. Andrews
William H. Arvin
William C. Bauer
Thomas M. Beazlie
Philip W. Beckwith ur.
John F. M. Bowie II
Craig A. Bowlus
Nelson F. Brinckerhoff
Marcus E. Bromley
Marvin M. Brooke
Frank C. Brooks Jr.
William E. Brumback
William P. Canby
Michael L. Carrere
Kenneth P. Carter
Charles J. Cartwright
Harold H. Catlin
David P. Christovich
Lucius D. Clay _
Stephen Clement
Arthur F. Cleveland |!
Raymond D. Coates Jr.
Madison F. Cole Jr.
John D. Copenhaver
John G. Crommelin IV
Thomas C. Daniel
Jeffrey A. Davis
Bruce W. Derrick
Christopher C. Dove
Sanford Doxey III
John M. Duckworth
James F. Easterlin

S. Stacy Eastland
John O. Ellis Jr.
Michael G. Florence
Christopher D. Friend
Joel A. Fulmer IV

W&L = 27

David B. Galt Jr.
Alan B. GaNun

G. Carr Garnett
William A. Gatlin III
Charles W. Glasgow Jr.
Henry A. Harkey

C. Miner Harrell
Charles F. Harris Jr.
Steven L. Hawley
John R. Heath
Charles G. Houston ///
E. Wren Hudgins
Thomas B. Hudson Jr.
William S. Ingersoll
Richard C. Ivey
William M. Jacobs
Kelly C. Jones
Edward F. Judt
William A. Kahn
Patrick L. Keen
Stephen H. Kerkam
Richard O. Kimball
John H. King
Michael W. Kirshbaum
John D. Klinedinst
Donald H. Koontz
Andrew G. Kumpuris
Francis M. Lawrence
H. Drake Leddy
Bruce C. Lee

Harry D. LeTourneau Jr.
D. Downs Little
Gordon S. Macrae
Walter W. May

John M. McCardell Jr.
Philip D. McFarlane
G. Lee Millar III

Barry W. Mitchell
James A. Moses
Kenneth W. Newman
Henry Nottberg III
William H. Oast III

E. Staman Ogilvie
Van H. Pate

Walter G. Pettey III
Joseph B. Philips III
Donald C. Poppke
Wesley E. Pullman
Richard W. Regan
Thomas E. Reynolds
Franklin R. Rich
Louis W. Rieder II/
Stephen D. Rosenthal
Jackson H. Ross

T. Jeffrey Salb

Peter F. San Miguel
R. Balfour Sartor
Allen C. Shepard Jr.
Davis P. Smith Ill

J. Connor Smith

S. Russell Smith dr.
Jeffrey B. Spence
Frank W. Stearns

Henry W. Stephenson Jr.

John L. P. Sullivan dr.
Ben P. Tatum

J. Gregory Tinaglia
Joseph B. Tompkins dr.
Claude M. Walker dr.
Clifford L. Walters III
Thomas H. Watts
Andrew J. White dr.
David P. White

Calvert S. Whitehurst
George H. Widener III
Paul D. Wilber

Donald E. Woodard Jr.
Robert G. Woodward
Bradfield F. Wright
Peter F. Zimmermann

CLASS OF 1972-A
Edward H. Achorn dr.
Thomas E. Addison III
J. Hudson Allender
Daniel W. Armstrong
William G. Arnot III
Glenn M. Azuma
James M. Ballengee Jr.

28 W&L

 

Thomas O. Barton
Frank B. Bazzel
David M. Bernard
Joseph J. Blake Jr.
Max F. Brantley
Robert G. Brookby
Allen C. Brown —
Robert L. Burns
Beach M. Clark Jr.
Robert C. Coleman
Bruce W. Cusson
Peter F. Davidson
James S. Davis

T. Jeffrey Driscoll
Lynn D. Durham Jr.
Lee N. Eisen

J. Hagood Ellison Jr.
C. Grayson FitzHugh
Robert P. Foley
Wade K. Forbes
Alan D. Frazer
Thomas J. Friedman
David C. Fulton
Arthur N. Furhman
William A. Garrett Jr.
John M. Glace
Carter Glass IV
Robert L. Goehring Jr.
Lloyd M. Goodman
D. Randoloh Graham
Charles L. Gregory
Robert S. Griffith ||
Bernard C. Grigsby II
Bruce R. Hankins

C. James Harland Jr.
William S. Harris
James F. Heatwole
David L. Holland
Marshall T. Irving Ill
George H. Jones III
Thomas G. Keefe
Edward W. Lane III
Landon B. Lane Jr.
Scott E. Lebensburger
Michael R. Long
Bruce P. Madison
Douglas H. Madison
Lawson H. Marshall
Douglas F. Martin

P. Hale Mast Jr.
Donald T. McMillan
Lex O. McMillan III

John P. Mello

William H. Miller III
Edward G. Moore
Meryl D. Moore
David T. Moulton
David R. Munsick Jr.
Kenneth B. Murov
A. Scott Neese
Jarvis E. Newman lll
Jeffrey M. O’Dell
John C. O’Neal
David W. Olson
Steven J. Ory
Frederick M. Paone
W. Wade Peery

Joe D. Pippin
Charles W. Pride
Michael E. Riley
John W. Robinson |IV
Stephen W. Robinson
Lester W. Sanders IIl
Fredrick H. Sands

M. J. Schoenberger
Peter M. Somerville
Richard J. Splittorf

E. George Stook Jr.
Peter D. Swart
Stephen B. Thompson
John G. Tucker
Robert M. Turnbull
Terry W. Tyler
Robert C. Walker Jr.
John F. Watlington III
William H. West Jr.
E. Bruce Wilsie Jr.
Lloyd S. Wolf

M. Scott Wood Jr.

 

John B. Woodlief
William M. Woodward
Millard S. Younts

CLASS OF 1973-A
Paul C. Archer
Jeffrey K. Baugher

W. Christopher Beeler Jr.

George W. Blackford Jr.
L. Price Blackford
Robert P. Boyd

FE. Marshall Braden
Mills A. Bradshaw
Gates G. Brelsford
Robert O. Brennan
Robert J. Brumback
Jeffrey C. Burris
James H. Clapp
William C. Clark

T. Hal Clarke Jr.
James E. Creamer Jr.
Joffre J. Cross II
Michael S. Davis
John C. Dovel

John H. Dumas I!
Charles W. Dunn
Donald D. Eavenson dr.
Robert N. Farrar
James A. Fernald II|
N. Reed Finney

John W. Folsom
William B. Fowler
William C. French

G. Archer Frierson Il
Jerrod L. Godin

W. D. Gowl

Richard H. Graham
Robert B. Graham
Richard E. Gray Ill
Timothy F. Haley
Thornton Hardie III
James G. Hardwick
W. Lee Harriss
Robert L. Hillman
Andrew G. Hollinger
James F. Hudec
Conway W. Hunter Ill
T. H. Jackson

Craig B. Jones
George R. Jones Jr.
Paul D. Jones

T. M. Kampfmueller Jr.
Jay H. Kern

John R. Kessling

W. Revell Lewis III
Nimrod W. E. Long Jr.
Gary L. Martin

J. Jason Matthews
Wilson C. Merchant III
William D. Miller
Philip H. Milner Jr.
Robert L. Munt Jr.
Thomas J. Murray
William P. Peak Jr.
Charles R. Pennington
Bruce C. Perkins
Charles D. Perry dr.
Robert J. Popp

E. Bryson Powell
Russell C. Powell //
Lat W. Purser II//
John J. Reid

Scott E. Rickoff
Gregory B. Robertson
Richard Romanelli
John S. Runge
Michael C. Schaeffer
R. Keith Shaner
Robert A. Silverman
Mark E. Skellenger
Henry M. Slauson Ill
Hatton C. V. Smith
John F. Smith

Ralph H. Smith |
James F. Spaulding
Andrew D. Staniar

J. Griffith Steel
Charles M. Strain
Stephen T. Swenson

 

J. Stanley Taylor
Robert J. Taylor IV
Lee S. Thalheimer
Daniel L. Topping
William G. Tucker
John A. Wade III
Dorsey M. Ward Jr.~
Jack V. H. Whipple I!
Craig R. Williams
George B. Wolfe
Frederick W. Woodward III
Mark R. Young
James B. Zeppieri

CLASS OF 1974-A
William D. Adams IV
Jack E. Altman II
Gary M. Arthur

Virgil O. Barnard III
Gary C. Bingham
Wilson E. Blain
Robert N. Brand
Chester F. Burgess III
Jeffrey D. Burke
Douglas C. Chase Jr.
P. Bryan Chasney
Andrew J. Chriss
Timothy C. Conner
Gerald F. Costello
Francis J. Crilley Ill
Marvin P. Daniel
Raymond P. Davidson I!
|. Langston Donkle III
William L. Downing
Waller T. Dudley
Leonard P. Eager III
F. Harrison Evatt
James D. Farrar Jr.
David V. Finnell

Fred W. Frick

Ralph E. Garner
Stephen M. Hagey
Averill C. Harkey
William T. Harmon

E. Phifer Helms
Russell L. Hewit
Bliss Y. Hicky

Lewis J. Hixson

Paul R. Holland Ill
Walter J. Hoyt
Robert E. Johnson ur.
Kenneth D. Julian
Warren T. Kent dr.
William D. Kientz II
Duncan S. Klinedinst
Edward M. Kowal Jr.
John S. Lalley Jr.
Matthew B. LaMotte
William R. LaRosa Jr.
Joseph C. Leary III
Edward H. Leonard lll
T. Berry Long Ill
Bradford N. Martin
Thomas A. Mattesky
Gary W. McAuliffe
Donald McBride III
Richard S. McCain
Charles L. McCardell
Bryan E. McNeill
William R. Melton IV
Richard H. Metcalf
David L. Moore Jr.
W. Perrin Nicolson IV
Thomas W. Peard
Michael D. Peppler
Paul W. Perkins
Gerard D. Porath
Lewis F. Powell III
Mark W. Preston
Stuart Ragland Ill
Robert M. Rainey
William F. Rienhoff lV
James G. Rogers
William H. Sanders Jr.
Kenneth R. Seal
Wright D. Shields
Martin E. Stein Jr.
Richard K. Stuart Jr.
Thomas D. Swann

 

G. Watson Tebo Jr.

Alfred C. Thullbery Jr.
Hannes F. VanWagenberg
John S. Wallace

William P. Wallace Jr.
Jonathan H. Weigle

John C. Weitnauer

Bryan B. Whitehurst
John P. Woodley Jr.

CLASS OF 1975-A
Thomas G. Armstrong
Benjamin L. Bailey
James V. Baird
James T. Becker
Samuel M. Bell
William H. Biesel Jr.

William T. W. Brotherton II/ ~

Lawrence B. Cahoon
Matthew J. Calvert
David A. Canto
Francis C. Carter
John R. Clapp
Michael F. Colpoys
Robert A. Cook
Richard R. Councill
Rogers L. Crain
James A. Cranford III
Charles M. Cushing Jr.
William C. Datz

T. Barry Davis
Duncan B. DeGraff
Mark X. Diverio
David G. Dowell

S. Lawrence Dumville
John R. Embree
Paul G. Firth

Carl P. Flanagan Ill
Robert C. Floyd
William E. Forland Jr.
John F. Garth

John W. Getz
Edmond B. Gregory III
Thad Grundy Jr.

B. Spencer Heddens I//
Murray T. Holland
James J. Howard
Douglas H. Hunt
Richard D. Jones
Richard D. Judson
Robert A. Keatley
Guy H. Kerr

John D. Killpack

Kim B. Kirk

Karl E. Klinger

Gary R. Knick
Richard M. Koch
Matthew R. Krafft
Kim D. Kuehner
Paul J. Lancaster
Thomas D. Lancaster
Robert M. Lander II
J. William Lassetter
Samuel R. Lewis
Warren L. Look
Alexander H. Mackintosh
Channing J. Martin
David H. Mathews
Turner J. J. McGehee
Michael W. McLane
Mark J. Mennel
Kenneth C. Miller III
Carter H. Moore
Daniel K. Moore
Robert G. Morecock
David A. Mycoff
Stuart B. Nibley
Vernon F. Ottenritter
James N. Overton
Benjamin G. Philpott
John R. Picciotti
David R. Pittman
Thomas O. Rainey III
Thomas B. Ramey III
J. Edwards Ramsey
Jack W. Ray Jr.

P. Bowman Root III
Mitchel J. Seleznick
Philip L. Sellers

David E. Shaffner
Benjamin M. Sherman
Preston R. Simpson
W. Kennedy Simpson
David H. Slater
Lamar R. Spencer
Charles A. Stein

Kim Stenson

William H. Sturges
William W. Terry III
Stephen C. Thienel
Jeffery W. Thompson
James E. Toler Jr.

B. Harrison Turnbull
Thomas H. Wall IV
William A. Wallace
William L. Warren Jr.
Thomas R. Watkins Jr.
Joseph E. Welden Jr.
Mercer E. West IV
J. Bowman Williams
Joel A. Williams

C. Berkeley Wilson ||
James Wilson
Duncan F. Winter

CLASS OF 1976-A
Peter H. Adler
Robert L. Amsler Jr.
R. Stewart Barroll
Frederick L. Bates
Jeffrey A. Baum
Thomas H. Baumann
Robert M. Bender
John G. Berry
David R. Braun
Richard P. Briggs II
Samuel R. Brown |I
G. Don N. Bryant Ill
John J. Burns III
Peter R. Cavalier

John A. Cocklereece Jr.

William R. Cogar
Craig H. Coller
William L. Cooper III
L. L. Craighill Jr.
Paul B. Cromelin III
Lawrence R. Daniel
John C. Darwin III
David W. Denny
James D. Doyle III
Alan P. Dozier
Daniel E. Drennen II
Luther H. Dudley I!
J. Glenn Dulken
David K. Eubank

H. Sprague Eustis Jr.
Douglas M. Faris

D. Scott Farrar

Jay R. Fries

William E. Garrison III
H. Mynders Glover
James C. Gould

R. Craig Graham
John L. Gray Jr.

T. Hunt Hardinge III
William E. Hoatson Jr.
Laurence P. Hobbes
Kenneth J. Holda
Harold R. Howe Jr.
Michael B. Hubbard
B. Davis Jackson
Clay T. Jackson
Neilson L. Johnson
J. Lee Keiger II
Robert C. Kelly
Donald R. Kempton Jr.
Stephen C. LaRosa
Marc S. Levin

Brian M. Levine

R. Brooke Lewis
David S. Martin

Mark R. Maurais
Michael J. McDonough
Robert W. H. Mish III
Henry M. Montague
M. Reed Morgan
Robin M. Morgan
Spencer W. Morten III

 

Douglas R. Muir
Gregory J. Muldoon
James F. Norton Jr.
Vernon E. O’Berry Jr.
Dennis Oakley

Michael A. Okin

B. Craig Owens

Cary E. Patrick Jr.
William B. Peard
James D. Pearson
Alan W. Pettigrew

A. Dickinson B. Phillips
John G. Podgajny
Gerard R. Quinlan

J. Kimble Ratliff Jr.
Walter S. Robertson II/
Kenneth P. Ruscio
Roderick R. Scott

Gary W. Seldomridge
John F. Shettle
Frederick L. Silbernagel
Paul A. Simpson
Courtland N. Smith III
Robert J. Smith dr.
Paul K. Stillwagon
Stephen R. Strawsburg
Thomas M. Stritch Jr.
Richard L. Thieringer
Willard C. Thompson
William E. Thompson IV
Peter B. Thomson
Walter E. Veghte III
Peyton A. Via

Joseph Walker ||
David C. Warren
Lawrence T. Washington
Scott E. Watson
Richard O. Whitaker

CLASS OF 1977-A

H. Cobb Alexander Jr.
Michael D. Armstrong
Camillus L. Avent
Barry O. Barlow
William F. Beauchamp
Richard O. Bolden Jr.
William M. Broders
James R. Brooks
Solomon G. Brotman
John R. Buckthal
Michael J. Burns
Robert R. Campbell Jr.
William D. Cantler II
Robert A. Carpentier
Joseph L. Carrere
Robert M. Chiaviello Jr.
Michael H. Clary
William H. Clemons
M. Calhoun Colvin Jr.
William E. Craver III
David C. Davis
Douglass W. Dewing
Christian G. Dietz III
John R. Downey
Roger B. Durham
Edward M. Duvall
James N. Falk

William J. Flesher
Michael E. Forry
Clarence N. Frierson Jr.
Landon W. Garland Jr.
Brian L. Garr

Edward B. Gerhardt
Stephen Q. Giblin

T. Nicholas Gill
Stephen D. Good
John D. Gottwald
Reid H. Griffin

Louis B. Hackerman
Craig F. Hamilton

E. Bruce Harvey Jr.
Carlton M. Henson
Mark E. Hoffman
Michael B. Hollinger
James G. Houston
Thomas H. Hunter II//
E. Claiborne Irby Jr.
Randall L. Irvine
David B. Johnston

 

James A. Jones IV
Thomas N. Keigler
Walter D. Kelley Jr.
James E. Koch

Mark A. Krieger III
Rand J. Krikorian

L. James Lawson I//
John A. Magee V
James B. Mallory Ill
W. Randall Mann
Thomas H. McBride III
Charles D. |. Powell
Vaughan M. Pultz
Richard F. Rathbone
W. Charles Rogers II/
John D. Rosen

W. Kirkland Ruffin
William H. Sands
Angelo B. Santella
James U. Scott
Douglas A. Scovanner
Stuart W. Serenbetz
Howard R. Sklaroff
Marshall K. Snyder
Earl W. Stradtman Jr.
John L. Strock

D. Lowell Sullivan

G. Scott Thomas
Clark G. Thompson Jr.
Samuel E. Thompson
Paul H. Thomson
Theodore L. Uhiman
Theodore J. Van Leer
Dries M. Van Wagenberg
James C. Vardell III
Timothy R. Vaughan
Kenneth S. Voelker
Ludwig C. Von Gohren
Greg S. Walden
Marshall G. Weaver
Steven D. White
Lewis R. Windham II
James N. Wobhlfarth
Richard S. Wolf

Isaac L. Wornom III
Thomas H. Yancey
Stephen C. Yevich

 

 

 

CLASS OF 1978-A
Maurice G. Adams
David A. Addison

A. Michael Airheart
Jerry M. Baird

M. Daniel Becque
Mark E. Bennett
Kenneth J. Bewick
Arthur A. Birney Jr.
Alexander H. Bishop IV
Darnall W. Boyd Jr.
Parke L. Bradley
Paul K. Brock Jr.
Charles V. Brown III
William D. Brown
John L. Bruch III
William K. Burton
David G. Carpenter
Brian P. Carroll
George L. Carson Jr.
David W. Chester

H. Barton Clark
Michael T. Cleary
Richard S. Cleary
John H. Collmus
Rodney M. Cook Jr.
Stuart L. Craig Jr.
William O. Cranshaw
Reynolds Dods
Tupper H. Dorsey
Alexius A. Dyer III
William M. Ewing Jr.
George W. Faison Jr.
Peter L. Farren

Craig B. Forry

R. B. Nash Francis Jr.
David G. Franklin
William O. Frear Jr.
Gustave A. Fritchie III
Thomas K. Galvin III
Theodore H. Ghiz dr.
Julian H. Good Jr.
Walter Granruth III
Erik S. Greenbaum
G. Carter Greer
George F. Griffin IV
Mark W. Hampton

 

Henry Hauptfuhrer IV
Steven B. Heird
Charles E. Hinkle
Thomas R. Hodges
Christopher N. Hoover
E. Brewington Houston Jr.
K. Lee Howard I!
John S. Hudson
Robert H. Jackson
Benjamin |. Johns Jr.
Douglas E. Johnston Jr.
Harry T. Jones III
Robert Q. Jones Jr.
William H. Joost
Peter C. Keefe

Karl N. Koon

James K. Ladky
Alexis B. LaMotte
Jeffrey K. Lee
George D. Low

John C. Martin III
Robert J. Marvin Jr.
Richard B. McDaniel
R. Boice McGrew
Henry S. McKelway
David J. McLean
Michael J. Missal
Robert W. Moorhead III
Robert N. Mucciola
Rex D. Nyquist
Ryland R. Owen
Robert C. Peery ur.
Marcus M. Pennell III
H. Heartsill Ragon III
Stephen P. Rodgers
D. Stowe Rose

W. Gordon Ross ||
Howard A. Rubel
John F. Sacco
William S. Sands Jr.
L. Scott Shelton
James G. Sheridan Jr.
Gregory C. Sieminski
Donald G. Smith Jr.
George M. Smith
Jeffrey M. Sone
Richard W. Stewart

 

W&L 29

Benjamin B. Swan
Richard C. Taylor
Keith A. Teel :
John F. Tompkins III
Robert B. Tremblay
David A. Tumen
James M. Underhill
James H. Veghte
Michael M. Wallis
James N. Walter Jr.
Roland B. Walters
Edmund V. Wick
Brice B. Williams
Thomas A. Williams
Richard T. Zink

CLASS OF 1979-A
Douglas H. Adams
William R. Alpaugh
Robert E. Atkinson Jr.
Marshall M. Barroll
Robert H. Benfield Jr.
John C. Boutiette
John C. Bovay

Robert M. Burkholder Jr.
J-J Landers Carnal
Clement D. Carter III
O. Lee Cave Ill
Robert L. Clement III
R. Christopher Collins
Joseph F. Cox

John A. Craig

R. E. Lee Davies
James O. Davis Ill
Luis De Hechavarria Jr.
Robert H. Devilbiss
Michael J. Doody
Frank R. Ellerbe III
Shawn W. Ellsworth
John H. Ferguson
Frederick S. Fischer Ill
Paul W. Gerharat
Robert S. Gibb III
Alan S. Guyes
Charles C. Habliston IV
Ferdinand B. Harrington
Palmer T. Heenan Jr.
Philip A. Heldrich
Harry F. Hoke Ill
Richard F. Huck Ill
John S. Hyslop Ill
Douglas M. Jackson
M. Tucker Laffitte III
James C. Lancaster
Douglas B. Lane
Grant E. Leister
Russell L. Martin Ill
John E. McDonald Jr.
Stephen Y. McGehee
J. William Pierce Jr.
Jonathan W. Pine Jr.
John S. Plowden
Thomas M. Pritchard
William T. Ramsey
William F. Reighley

Thomas B. Rentschler Jr.

John F. Resen
Robert C. Rogers
William N. Roper

J. Randolph Sacks
Andrew T. Sanders Jr.
John V. C. Saylor
James R. Shoemaker
Kenneth W. Sledd Jr.
Arthur J. Somers
Clifford B. Sondock
John P. Stafford
Mark S. Travers

J. Michael Watson
Neil J. Welch Jr.
Tracy A. White

John W. Wilcox III
Richard B. Wiles
Douglas K. Willis
Landon R. Wyatt III

CLASS OF 1980-A
Stephen H. Abraham
Michael M. Adams

30 =W&L

 

R. J. Allen Jr.

Stewart Atkinson Jr.
H. Holcombe Baird III
G. Brian Bauer

Paul C. Becht

Robert J. Berghe! Jr. —
David P. Blackwood
Cary G. Booth
George L. Booth
Martin F. Bowers
Edward L. Bowie Jr.
Abney S. Boxley III
David A. Bryant
Richard P. Cancelmo Jr.
David L. Church
Walton V. Clark

David E. Constine III
P. Craig Cornett
Leslie A. Cotter Jr.

"J. Clay Crumbliss

Hamilton C. Davis Ill
Michael F. Deighan
Douglas C. Dorsey
Thomas E. Dutton
Gregory B. Dyer
Robert B. Earle
Goetz B. Eaton
Sydney D. Farrar
Eben D. Finney III
Walter M. Frankenberger
Covert J. Geary
Thomas E. Goss Jr.
Homer D. Graham Ill
David A. Greer
Lawrence K. Gumprich
Stephen D. Hallowell
Albin B. Hammond Ill
David H. Harpole ur.
Steven C. Johnson
Stephen R. Kern
Mark A. Kinniburgh
Michael D. O. Lavitt
Richard M. Lewis
Mark E. Lockhart

Richard A. Makepeace Jr.

Theodore B. Martin Jr.

William H. Matthai Jr.

John W. McAlister
Stephen J. McCabe
Murry G. McClintock
Kevin F. McGowan
Scott G. McLam _
Barksdale W. McNider
James E. Mendoza
Robert M. Merriman Jr.
David E. Meyers
Edward C. Morrison
Joseph E. Olive

‘James H. Parker

Howard T. Parks
Russell B. Parmele Jr.
William W. Paxton
Robert W. Pearce Jr.
Douglas A. Peckham
Christopher T. Porter
William E. Pritchard
William S. Ridge
Hugh L. Robinson II
John K. Ryan
Jonathan B. Schewel
Peter J. Schott

Jesse M. Shaver Ill
Charles H. Shuford Jr.
Sidney S. Simmons ||
Reid M. Slaughter
Herbert G. Smith Il
John R. Stagmaier
Guy T. Steuart III
Jesse F. Suber
Donald E. Swagart Jr.
Vail T. Thorne

Mark G. Walker
Joseph K. Wallace
Scott A. Williams
Thomas A. Wornom
Mitchell S. Wynne
Scott W. Zackowski

 

CLASS OF 1981-A
Charles O. Adler
Peter H. Benda
John G. Billmyre
Robert D. Binder
John G. P. Boatwright Jr.
Jerry L. Broccoll
Edward G. Brooks
Winston W. Burks I//
W. Craig Burns
Samuel H. Campbell 1V
J. Scott Cardozo
Kevin P. Carney

W. Tobin Cassels III
Marshall A. Clark
William R. Cole III
Vincent Coviello
Lawrence J. Davis
Stanley K. Doobin
Richard H. Drennen
David M. Dudka
Kevin B. Dwyer
Peter D. Eliades
James K. Falk
Christopher J. Fay
David G. Finley
John J. Fox Ill

R. Christopher Gammon
Randolph B. George
J. Ross Germano
Gerrald A. Giblin Jr.
Brian M. Ginsburg
Robert P. Gordon Ill
Christopher H. Greatwood
Stephen M. Handy
Douglas L. Hassinger
John S. Hastings
Jonathan M. Hendler
N. Jeffrey Herdelin
Alfred R. Hintz

David B. Irvin

Aric W. Johnson
Edward A. Johnson
Frank S. Jones Jr.

W. Powell Jones
Warren P. Kean

Ben W. Keesee
John M. Kemp
Craig W. Kennelly
Richard P. Kenney
Ted M. Kerr Jr.
Edward A. Kramer
Richard G. Latture
Kevin K. Leonard
Bradley A. Lewis
David A. Lewis

A. William Mackie
Stuart A. Mason
Kevin M. McGuire
M. Victor McLaughlin Jr.
Scott B. Michaels
Edward L. Mintz
Ronald S. Moore

W. Cope Moyers
Robert J. Mullican
Robert B. Neely

J. R. Newell

Bishop B. Norris
John W. Northington
Christopher S. O’Connor
C. Penn Owen III
John P. Pigue
Russell Z. Plowden
George A. Polizos
John A. Pritchett
David W. Proctor
John P. Purcell
Daniel J. Raskin

Mac E. Rein Jr.
Jefferson J. Reiter
Alexis V. Richards
Stuart S. Rienhoff
Ralph D. Rigger Jr.
William J. Roberts
Edwin S. Ryan ur.
Daryl A. Sakol
Richard W. Salmons Jr.
Joseph C. Savage

 

John K. Schmidt
Mark W. Scully

Joel E. Segall
Richard B. Silberstein
Robert V. Sisk Jr.
James R. Small
Michael C. Smith

W. Currin Snipes Jr.
James Wm H Stewart Jr.
Mark M. Suber

John R. Sult

William B. Taylor

J. Kirby Tompkins IV
Charles J. Van Horn
James Kay Vines
Edward J. Vorwerk
Douglas T. Webb
Douglas W. Werth
Robert H. Willis Jr.
Jonathan R. Yale

CLASS OF 1982-A
Frank D. Agnew
Mark T. Altermatt
Gordon E. Atkins
James V. Bent Jr.
William W. Bourne
Elmer T. Brockman
Frank W. Brower Ill
William F. L. Brown
Philip M. Browne
Stephen P. Burrington
Ricardo F. Casellas
Thomas Coleman
Michael J. Collier
Preston S. Copenhaver ||
David R. Cordell

J. Preston Covington Ill
Thomas K. Creson Ill
E. Bradley Crosby
Earle W. David

M. B. Dennen

A. Robert Dementi
Barry R. Dunn
James E. Dunn Jr.
William A. Dupre IV
J. Thad Ellis II

David B. Favrot Jr.
Michael W. Fogarty
Heyward H. Fouche Jr.
John E. Fowler Il
Clifford T. Gordon
Earle S. Greene Jr.
Herbert C. Gresens
R. Gordon Grubb
Jeffrey W. Gustafson
Ehrick K. Haight ur.
Channing M. Hall Ill
John D. Harris dr.
Stewart A. Hinckley
Anthony R. lerardi
Bruce C. Jones
James S. Kaplan
Alan S. Kendrick
Michael F. Kennedy
Eric W. Kolts

Glen F. Koontz
Kenneth A. Lang
Jonathan A. Lebovitz
Timothy D. Lobach
Kenneth S. Lucas Jr.
Michael J. Malesardi
John W. Martin
Alexander W. McAlister
Robert D. McLean Jr.
John E. Monroe

J. Stratton Moore
Christopher L. Muller
Robert B. Muskin
Eric T. Myers

Kelly J. Niernberger
Nelson E. Ould
William R. Parks Jr.
Edmund P. Perry
Thomas A. Pizzano
Charles H. Prioleau
S. Braxton Puryear
Charles F. Randolph

 

J. Burruss Riis

Parker Roberts

W. Phillip Rockecharlie
Henry F. Sattlethight
Daniel E. Schott

Karl R. Sening
Douglas G. Sheldon
Christopher L. Sisto
Russell H. Stall

Robert M. Staugaitis
Timothy J. Stuart
Timothy C. Taylor
David C. Tyler

Robert S. Van Buren
John T. Warmath III
Robert H. Warren III
Robert M. Waymouth
Daniel L. Weiss

John Anderson Wells III
James P. Wenke »

W. Lawrence Wescott II
William L. Whalen
Usher T. Winslett III

R. Blake Witherington
Robert K. Wittpenn
Bruce K. Young

CLASS OF 1983-A
James E. Averett
Richard A. Baer

_ Seng-Kah Baey

James L. Baldwin
William M. Bell III
Thomas J. Bronner
John K. Butler

James H. Campbell
Robert S. Carpenter
Christopher L. Cavalline
Ejay Clark

Stephen J. Conboy
Kraig A. Conn

Steven D. Corbeille
George E. Crady
Robert A. Crawford
David A. Curtiss
James A. Cusick
Bruce E. Damark
Steven A. Daub
William F. Devine
Robert W. Donahey
Michael D. Drinkwater
Daniel M. Einstein
Frank G. English IV
Frank L. Eppes

Philip O. Farr

Vincent J. Fechtel III
Harry A. Feuerstein
Arthur F. Fulmer Ill
Theodore Mathew Galanides
Stephen P. Geary
Howard E. Gill Ill

Keith E. Goretzka
David C. Graham
Stephen K. Greene
Michael M. Gregory
Robert S. Griffith Ill
George M. Grimball Jr.
David W. Haddock
David M. Hagigh
Scott W. Hall

Clifford T. Hanks
Deane A. Hennett
Samuel B. Hollis Jr.
John T. Huskin Jr.

W. Richard Jones Jr.
Patrick C. Jordan
Donald W. Kellerman Jr.
Newton P. Kendrick
Thomas F. King Ill

W. Henry Langhorne III
Joseph D. LeBlanc III
George A. LeCuyer
Michael H. Lewers
Michael D. Mahoney
Robert W. Marshall
Clifton |. Morrissette
Gerald |. Moyer Jr.
Fredrik E. Nelson dr.
Raymond L. Nichols Jr.

 

Townsend Oast Jr.
Richard W. Ordway
Richard G. Owen
John W. Perkinson Jr.
David E. Perlitz
Herbert M. Ponder III
Joseph P. Potente

C. Blair Pritchett III

|. Kay Redd Ill

David P. Ridlon
Bennett L. Ross

John A. Ross

John B. Rudder
Christopher D. Schram
Michael G. Schuler
Joseph N. Seifert III
William M. Self Ill

C. Wood Selig

Scott A. Slade
Christopher P. Smith
Frank M. Smith II
Robert R. Smith Jr.
Todd C. Smith
Michael B. Streiff
Nicholas W. Teare
Charles E. Thompson
Stephen B. Vaughan Jr.
John C. Viahoplus
Stephen C. Warren
Thomas H. Webb
Bruce E. Wennerholm
Gilles C. Wheeler
Thomas A. Wilson
Anthony J. Zaccagnini

CLASS OF 1984-A
David C. Adams
Charles W. Alcorn III
Lewis M. Allen

David W. Ames
Kenneth J. Andsager
David B. Arnold
Todd W. Barstow
Martin J. Bechtold
Edwin V. Bell

Kevin Y. Berger
Robert G. Buchanan Jr.
Patrick J.Buttarazzi ||
Eric J. Campbell
Geoffrey R. B. Carey
Paul F. Chapman
James C. Clark

John M. Cleghorn
Thomas L. Cover
Peter Cronin

Edwin J. Curran Ill
James W. Davis
David H. Denby ur.
Spencer K. Dickinson
Louis M. Dubin
Richard M. Dunn III
Mark H. Eastham
Emory A. Edwards II

Dwight H. Emanuelson Jr.

James M. Faulkner Ill
Lee R. Feldman
Gregory L. Flentje
Theodore G. Fletcher
Elbert T. Ford

Herbert O. Funsten III
George R. Grainger Jr.
John Lee Graves
Jeffrey B. Gwynn
Richard A. Haight
David R. Harcus
Richard K. Hardage
John E. Harrison III
Joshua M. Heltzer
David R. Herr Jr.
James D. Higgason Jr.
John V. Howard Jr.
James C. Hudson
James N. L. Humphreys
Anthony J. Interrante
Donald E. Jeffrey Ill
Louis C. Jehl Jr.
Robert C. Jenevein
Gunnar K. Jordan

 

- Willard W. Kelly

Jeffrey W. Knapp
David W. Lee Jr.
Stephen W. Lemon
Paul E. Levy
Christopher C. Lykes
Martin E. Manassco
Kirk R. Mancer
Charles W. Mason
Scott C. Mason Jr.
Hiram H. Maxim Il
Craig H. McArn
Angus M. McBryde III
Alan E. McQuiston Jr.
Wade M. Meadows
James E. Messer Jr.
Duane L. Miller

Mark C. Mitschow
Peter M. Muller
Christopher M. Murphy
Daniel L. Murphy
Charles M. Plumly Il
Markham Shaw Pyle
Donald W. Richardson
Tori C. A. Richardson
Timothy G. Schurr
James T. Seidule
Charles C. Sherrill Jr.
Stewart T. Shettle
Roland J. Simon
Stephen J. A. Smith
Charles R. Spencer Ill
George Leighton Stradtman
Matthew G. Thompson Jr.
James B. Trimble
Thomas M. T. Turk
Barry P. Waterman
Warren B. Watkins III
William M. Wilson
Marion E. Wood II!
William D. Woolfolk
Michael S. Wyatt
George E. Youmans Jr.
Paul C. Ziebert

Law
Classes

CLASS OF 1921-L
William O. Burtner

CLASS OF 1922-L
George W. Taliaferro

CLASS OF 1923-L
Alfred L. McCarthy
William W. Ogden
Emmett W. Poindexter

CLASS OF 1924-L |
W. Clyde Dennis
Douglass P. Wingo

CLASS OF 1925-L
E. Almer Ames Jr.
Clarence E. Hinkle

CLASS OF 1926-L
Robert O. Bentley Jr.
William R. Cosby

CLASS OF 1927-L
James P. Bumgardner
John S. Letcher
Charles W. Lewis
Charles T. Smith

CLASS OF 1928-L
John G. Koedel
Bernard J. Wagner
William P. Woodley

CLASS OF 1929-L
Philip R. Becker
William G. Gault

 

Samuel C. Strite

John Bell Towill

CLASS OF 1930-L
Maurice J. Arnd
Leonard H. Davis

N. Dawson Hall Jr.
Benjamin L. Rawlins dr.

CLASS OF 1931-L
Horace Gooch Jr.
Walter E. Hoffman
James B. Martin
Gus E. Mitchell Jr.
Lewis F. Powell Jr.

CLASS OF 1932-L
Martin P. Burks Ill
Paul A. Holstein

Henry W. MacKenzie Jr.
William E. Malone
Alfred D. Noyes

Albert G. Peery
Gilbert V. Rosenberg
James D. Sparks Sr.

CLASS OF 1933-L
Copeland E. Adams
Franklin R. Bigham
Howard W. Carson
O. Raymond Cundiff
John L. Ericson
Thomas S. Fox

J. Jerome Framptom Jr.
Alfred R. Jones

John W. Rice

Henry C. Robert
George H. Strouse Jr.
J. Hoge Tyler Ill

CLASS OF 1934-L
Thomas D. Anderson
Robert D. Bailey
Thornton G. Berry Jr.
John H. Cooke

Albert M. Fowler
Francis M. Hoge
Sherwood W. Wise

CLASS OF 1935-L
Winston W. Brown

John D. Copenhaver

Eli H. Fink

James D. Finley II
William W. Fowlkes

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.
Thomas E. Sparks Sr.
William L. Wilson

CLASS OF 1936-L
John S. Beagle
Charles B. Cross Jr.
William L. Martin
John H. Thomas

CLASS OF 1937-L
David R. Dillon
Edwin M. Marks
Harry T. Moreland
S. Tilford Payne Jr.
Isadore M. Scott
Edward E. Stover

CLASS OF 1938-L
Joseph T. Drake Jr.
Edward W. Hiserman
Leonard Leight
Frank L. Price

J. McLain Stewart

CLASS OF 1939-L
William S. Ammerman Jr.
J. Vaughan Beale

Philip M. Grabill

Robert E. Graham

Robert F. Hutcheson Jr.

Samuel G. Jones Jr.
John A. MacKenzie
Joseph C. Murphy
Martin V. Partenope
Ambrose A. Rucker
Edgar L. Smith
Thomas A. Williams Jr.

 

CLASS OF 1940-L
William S. Burns
Edwin J. Foltz
Oswald B. McEwan
John F. O'Connor
Ethelbert S. Roby Jr.
Stanford L. Schewel
John C. Snidow ur.
Wendell R. Stoops

CLASS OF 1941-L
Frederick Bartenstein Jr.
Frank C. Bedinger Jr.
Clifford B. Curtis Jr.
Haskell T. Dickinson
John A. Gurkin Jr.
Charles F. Heiner
George F. McInerney
John E. Perry

W. Bryce Rea Jr.
Rufus H. Shumate
Lynell G. Skarda

CLASS OF 1942-L
Charles F. Bagley Jr.
Howard W. Dobbins
Carter Glass III
Homer A. Jones Jr.

- Charles M. Landrum Jr.

E. Austin McCaskill Sr.
Robert O. McDonald
Joseph A. Overton Jr.
Samuel B. Read
Clifford L. Walters

CLASS OF 1948-L
Charles C. Adams
Carter R. Allen’
James M. Ballengee
Joseph E. Blackburn
Henry C. Clark

Lloyd Cowan

Henry B. Crockett Jr.
Beverly T. Fitzpatrick
Henry J. Foresman
George E. Haw Jr.
Warden S. Lee
Joseph A. Matthews
James E. McNeer
Wilbur S. Metcalf Jr.
H. Maurice Mitchell
Grant E. Mouser III
James H. Murphy
Robert M. Patterson
Reginald H. Pettus
E. Rogers Pleasants
James O. Porter
John E. Scheifly
Paul M. Shuford
Trent D. Siple

James C. Stanfield
Claude E. Taylor Jr.
J. Randolph Tucker Jr.
Wm Earle Tucker

M. Williamson Watts

CLASS OF 1949-L
Bonva C. Allen dr.
Hayden D. Austin
Charles F. Blackburn
Carter C. Chinnis
Louis R. Coulling Jr.
Jack B. Coulter
William C. Eickhof Jr.
Maurice J. Flynn

J. Willard Greer
William C. Hamilton
Wesley H. Jolly
Stanley A. Kamen
Omer T. Kaylor Jr.
J. Gordon Kincheloe
John J. Koehler II

L. Addison Lanier

J. Randolph Larrick
Robert C. Mehorter
Jack B. Porterfield Jr.
Robert H. Ramsey
John Schuber Jr.
Sam Silverstein Jr.
Hugh T. Verano

 

Benjamin L. Wesson
Gilbert H. Wilson

CLASS OF 1950-L
Kenneth P. Asbury
William T. Brotherton Jr.
Hugh C. Castle Jr.
Thomas D. Crittenden
Jack A. Crowder

C. Hobson Goddin
George H. Gray
Rufus B. Hailey
Walter L. Hannah
Leon Harris Jr.

John L. Hopkins
William S. Hubard
John S. Lane

Philip M. Lanier

J. Stanley Livesay Jr.
Selden S. McNeer Jr.
Neal E. McNeill Jr.
William H. Oast Jr.
Barton P. Quaintance
William E. Quisenberry
Fred L. Rush Sr.
Milton H. Smith II
William S. Todd
Thomas R. Watkins
Samuel |. White

|. Leake Wornom Jr.

CLASS OF 1951-L
John S. Bailey Jr.
Michael J. Barrett Jr.
William H. Bender
Virgil M. Bowles
Marvin C. Bowling Jr.
John J. Flood

James T. Graybeal
Jack E. Greer
Samuel M. Hairston
Blair J. Harkett
Ernest M. Holdaway
Frank Love Jr.
Donald W. Mason
Leslie L. Mason Jr.
Grover C. Outland Jr.
Robert L. Powell

F. Bert Pulley
William R. Rogers
Nicholas S. Saraceno

_Mark W. Saurs

J. Donald Shannon
Scott H. Shott
Benjamin B. White Jr.
Gibson M. Wolfe

CLASS OF 1952-L
Willis M. Anderson
William C. Beatty
Arthur A. Birney
Harry G. Camper Jr.
Gerald H. Coulson
Raymond W. Haman
Earl L. Hargrove Jr.
Jackson L. Kiser |
F. Nelson Light —
Joseph H. McGee
James P. Morefield
Robert B. Murdock
Andrew D. Owens
Harold J. Powell
James C. Reed Jr.
Benjamin M. Richardson
J. Glenwood Strickler
J. Penrod Toles
James C. Turk

S. Maynard Turk
Sol Wachtler

Robert F. Ward

B. Lamar Winegeart Jr.
Joseph B. Yanity Jr.

CLASS OF 1953-L
Thomas O. Bagley
Robert L. Banse
Howard Bratches
James P. Carpenter
A. Christian Compton
Robert E. Glenn

W&L 31

Robert S. Goldsmith Jr.
Robert J. Ingram Jr
Cheaville L. Martin Jr.
E. Allan Skinner
Douglas M. Smith
Charles F. Tucker
William W. Vogel

Willis A. Woods

CLASS OF 1954-L
Richard A. Denny
Harry J. Grim

Robert B. Jacobi
Donald R. Klenk
Donald S. Latourette
Lewis C. Markel Jr.
Lawrence C. Musgrove
Milburn K. Noell Jr.
Roger J. Perry

Elias Richards III
John P. Ward

CLASS OF 1955-L
Gray C. Castle
William R. Cogar
Lewis Deschler |!
Hugh S. Glickstein
Richard E. Hill
Richard W. Hudgins
Jay W. Jackson
John F. Kay dr.
Peter J. Kurapka Jr.
John R. Lawson Jr.
David M. Murray
Kent Rigg

CLASS OF 1956-L
Douglas |. Buck

Reno S. Harp III
Milton T. Herndon
William H. Hodges
Laurier T. Raymond Jr.
Thomas W. Turner
George J. Tzangas
Willard |. Walker

Wiley R. Wright Jr.

CLASS OF 1957-L
Jack K. Agee
Charles J. Baldree
Thomas C. Broyles
Noel P. Copen

G. Wesley Eason
Douglas K. Frith
Robert E. R. Huntley
Lewis S. Lee

Gavin G. K. Letts
Robert H. Mann Jr.
William E. Moore Jr.
John S. Moremen
Townsend Oast
Overton P. Pollard
Stephen M. Quillen
John S. Stump III

CLASS OF 1958-L
Ernest H. Clarke

Mark B. Davis dr.
Charles S. Gay

Leonard C. Greenebaum
J. Hardin Marion
William O. Roberts Jr.
Norman C. Roettger Jr.
Robert E. Stroud
Patrick D. Sullivan

CLASS OF 1959-L
John R. Alford

J. Colin Campbell
Claude D. Carter
Thomas D. Frith Jr.
Richard H. Horn
William J. Lemon
Gunnar Miller

John F. Richards
Charles E. Swope

CLASS OF 1960-L

N. William Bath

Frank C. Bozeman
Thomas B. Branch III
Manley P. Caldwell Jr.

32. W&L

 

Gerald O. Clemens
William E. Crowell Jr.
Neal P. Lavelle

H. Victor Millner Jr. .
Thomas P. O’Brien dr.
James D. Ritter

Paul R. Robertson
Isaac N. Smith dr.
Jordan M. Smith

CLASS OF 1961-L
Harold M. Bates
Robert J. Berghel
Thomas B. Bryant Ill
Robert L. Gilliam III
Warren H. Goodwyn
Junius M. Lemmon

E. Michael Masinter
W. C. Miller

Nicholas H. Rodriguez
Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
Michael K. Smeltzer
Emil J. Sulzberger Jr.
Warren R. Welsh
Hugh V. White Jr.

CLASS OF 1962-L
Edward Bell Jr.
Charles D. Broll
Henry L. Carter
Thomas L. Feazell
Davis W. Ganim
Osie H. Gay Jr.
Allan Getson

Robert C. Ketcham
John M. Kirk
William R. Moore dr.
William W. Moore
John A. Paul
Richard A. Radis
Laurence M. Smail
Joseph M. Spivey III
Francis B. Van Nuys

CLASS OF 1963-L

— Paul H. Boswell

Malcolm B. Burton
William H. Clark dr.
Joseph E. Hess
James L. Howe II/
Gerald L. Kesten

R. Larry Lambert
Edward F. Meyers Jr.
Thornton W. Owen dr.
Leonard Sargeant III

CLASS OF 1964-L
William T. Braithwaite
Britain H. Bryant
Thomas W. Budd
William T. Euwer
Stanley A. Fink
James A. Gorry III
Joseph W. Kozlik
Richard L. Lawrence
Benjamin P. Lynch
Edgar H. MacKinlay
Richard V. Mattingly dr.

Benjamin L. Meluskey Jr.

Benjamin P. Michel
Robert K. Morton III
Donald H. Partington
Samuel T. Patterson Jr.
Charles B. Rowe
Weldon J. Smith
Peter T. Straub
Richard J. Tavss
David K. Tharp

W. Jere Tolton Jr.
Billy N. Utz

CLASS OF 1965-L
William D. Anderson
Stanley P. Atwood
Daniel T. Balfour
Frederick A. Casto
William M. Garrison
L. Gene Griffiths
Paul W. Hammack Jr.
William P. Harris
Ronald J. Kaye

 

Roger D. Kelsey
James E. Kulp
William B. McWilliams
Robert T. Mitchell Jr.
J. Leyburn Mosby Jr.
Robert S. Pless
Robert L. Stone
James L. Surface
Stephen L. Willson

CLASS OF 1966-L
Henry Angel

Robert R. Baldwin
Charles D. Bennett Jr.
Daniel W. Bird Jr.
Rudolph Bumgardner III
S. W. Coleman III

A. Henry Counts ur.
Walter E. Cox

Baxter L. Davis

Charles E. Hamilton III
Charles E. Hubbard
Charles G. Johnson
James S. Maffitt IV
Bruce C. Miller

J. Holmes Morrison
Alton B. Prillaman
William A. Schroeder III
Paul R. Thomson
Robert M. M. Van Rensselaer
Raymond H. Vizethann Jr.
George |. Vogel

Kent S. Wilson

George W. Wooten

CLASS OF 1967-L
John F. Bartlett
Charles C. Bowie Jr.
F. William Burke
Malcolm G. Crawford
John O. Culley
James F. Douthat
James W. Elliott Jr.
Mark R. Ferdinand
Benjamin R. Gardner
Richard E. Israel
Ronald D. Jacobs
Jon A. Kerr

Raymond J. Lajeunesse Jr.
Joseph D. Logan IIl
Peter W. Martone

J. Thomas Meadows Jr.
Richard L. Mitchell
Ronald W. Moore
William R. Reynolds
C. Edward Russell Jr.
Conway H. Sheild Ill
Herbert F. Smith
Jeffrey L. Ward

CLASS OF 1968-L
David H. Adams

C. Edmonds Allen III
Robert P. Brooks
Joseph W. Brown
Alfred J. T. Byrne
Hayward F. Day dr.
Parker A. Denaco
Robert E. Duvall

W. Gilbert Faulk Jr.
George M. Fisher IV
Vance A. Funk III
Larry E. Hepler
George E. Honts III
A. Alling Jones
John R. Lewis Ill
James L. Linebarger
Richard M. Livingston
Ronald H. Marks
Michael J. Michaeles
Paul M. Neville
Louie A. Paterno dr.
A. John Peck Jr.
George A. Ragland
Robert F. Rutschow
Harvey B. Savitt
Andrew T. Still Ill

W. Jay Tims

 

CLASS OF 1969-L
John B. Adams Jr.
Charles F. Bagley III
Robert G. Bigham
Terrence D. Brooks
Stephen S. Case
Thomas M. Edwards
Roy G. Harrell Jr.
Robert E. Harrison
Thornton M. Henry
Frederick W. Hudson
James D. Humphries III
Hugh J. M. Jones III
John E. Kelly III
Randy H. Lee

Jack L. Lintner

Val S. McWhorter
Tabor R. Novak Jr.
David D. Redmond
Jeffrey R. Reider
Harry C. Roberts ur.
Eric L. Sisler

William W. Stuart
Dean K. Vegosen
Kemble White III
Hubert H. Young Jr.

CLASS OF 1970-L
Wayne L. Bell

Richard D. Bradford
Edward B. Crosland Jr.
Richard DeFronzo

Harold A. Gleason

Richard P. Lasko
William F. Stone dr.
Aron L. Suna

D. Whitney Thornton I!
E. Monty Tucker

C. Fox Urquhart III
William A. Vaughan
James J. Winn Jr.
John H. Zink III

CLASS OF 1971-L
William D. Allen II!
David L. Baird Jr.
Walter J. Borda
Albert V. Carr Jr.
Frank G. Davidson lll
James J. Dawson

~ Reinhard W. Fischer

Robin P. Hartmann
Walter C. Jacob
Walton M. Jeffress Jr.
David J. Kantor
Charles C. Lewis
Albert M. Orgain IV
Beverly C. Read

J. Oakley Seibert
Paul R. Stanton
Stephen A. Strickler
Paul S. Trible Jr.

H. William Walker Jr.
Joseph H. Webb Jr.
McDonald Wellford Jr.
John P. White
Benjamin A. Williams III

CLASS OF 1972-L
William T. Anderson
Stephen D. Annand
Roger A. Grayson
John L. Griffith Jr.
Stewart M. Hurtt

James W. Jennings Jr.

Thomas W. Pettyjohn Jr.
J. Alvin Philpott Jr.
Alexis Tarumianz Jr.
Robert A. White

John A. Wolf

CLASS OF 1973-L
Richard V. Anderson
John C. Baldwin
Frederick W. Batten
E. Patrick Burke
Walter Butcka
Michael C. Bynane
Michael Campilongo
Lawrence M. Croft

 

Jesse C. Crumbley III
Charles W. Davis
Jeffrey M. Diamond
Gregory J. Digel
Philip B. Dundas Jr.
H. Watkins Ellerson Ill
Thomas G. Ferguson Jr.
Larry W. Fifer
Ronald T. Gold
Thomas A. Gosse
Clyde M. Henkel
Richard S. Mandelson
Peter C. Manson Jr.
William R. McCall

J. Jeffries Miles

John P. Miller

John C. Moore
James F. Pascal
James E. Patterson
Bruce L. Phillips
Dickey P. Rabun
Theodore H. Ritter
Elbert W. Robinson Jr.
S. Kennon Scott
Gary P. Shannon

A. Richard Sotelo
Jamie A. Stalnaker
Charles M. Stone
Stephen B. Sutton

E. Starke Sydnor
Kenneth J. Wernick
Robert J. Westerman
William E. Wood
Timothy S. Wright.

CLASS OF 1974-L
Thomas H. Alphin dr.
Arthur P. Bolton III
David M. Bradt Jr.
Peter B. Brittin

John R. Broadway Jr.
T. Lee Brown Jr.
Quentin R. Corrie
James M. Costan
Morgan O. Doolittle III
Stephen G. Elkins
James C. Fitter Jr.

M. Craig Garner Jr.
Dennis C. E. Gilchrist
Andrew C. Goresh

W. Bradney Griffin
James J. Kelley |!
Thomas R. King Jr.
Rex M. Lamb III ;
Thomas N. McJunkin
William H. Oast III
Gregory N. Stillman
William E. Walsh

Paul D. Wilber
Joseph P. Wise

CLASS OF 1975-L
Stephen E. Arey
Michael P. Bagley
Richard F. Biribauer
Robert S. Bonney Jr.
R. Noel Clinard
Grady C. Frank Jr.
Paul R. Garlock
Virginia B. Garrison
Fred K. Granade
Christopher J. Habenicht
Ray V. Hartwell III
David K. Higgins
John F. Hoffman
Peter R. Kolyer
Francis M. Lawrence
Jonathan S. Lynn
John |. McClurkin III
Donald T. McMillan
John S. Orton

Joe D. Pippin

M. Pierce Rucker II
A. Terrance Smith
Daniel T. Stacey
Perry R. Thompson
B. Caruthers Tolley III
Charles B. Tomm
Caroline Watts

 

Jeffrey L. Willis
Thomas K. Wotring

CLASS OF 1976-L
Robert H. Anderson III
Patrick K. Arey
Randall W. Atkins

E. Marshall Braden
James P. Carmody
Alan Chipperfield

C. Lynch Christian III
Francis C. Clark

Nan Robertson Clarke
T. Hal Clarke Jr.
Deborah Susman Dowd
Frank L. Duemmler
Jeff B. Dusek

Hiram Ely Ill

Judith M. Herndon
Robert L. Hillman
Richard A. Hooker
Killis T. Howard

Blair A. Kooi

Mark M. Lawson
Clendon H. Lee Jr.
James H. Maloney Jr.
Stephen D. McGraw
Lawrence C. Melton
Thomas J. Murray
John S. Norris Jr.
Gary T. Pope

Richard M. Preston
Marinus Quist
Stephen D. Rosenthal
John M. Sarikas
Thomas A. Schmutz
Bayard J. Snyder
Gregory M. Sorg
Jonathan L. Spear
Lucy D. Strickland

R. John Taylor

Scott T. Vaughn
Clifford L. Walters III
William A. Worthington III
Michael L. Zimmerman

CLASS OF 1977-L
Katherine L. Bishop
William J. Braaksma
Bruce E. Brennan
David W. Cranshaw
William L. Downing
Wayne G. Edwards
William S. Gee
Robert W. Goodlatte
Ted D. Grosser
Elizabeth T. Guarino
Russell L. Hewit
Deborah A. Johnson
Gary H. Jones
Edward M. Kowal Jr.
Robert M. Lawrence Jr.
Osborne P. Mackie
Bradford N. Martin

E. Morgan Maxwell III
James E. Nicholson
Jeffrey W. Parker
Michael J. Rowan
Jerry L. Short

Alfred C. Thullbery Jr.
Randall J. Trost
William P. Wallace Jr.
Samuel J. Webster
Pamela J. White
Chauncey C. Williams
John P. Woodley Jr.

CLASS OF 1978-L
Keith D. Boyette

Jean L. Byassee
Berthenia S. Crocker
Charles M. Cushing Jr.
Mark L. Dicken
Dennis M. Dougherty
Jill E. Dougherty

E. Townes Duncan
David P. Falck
Maryellen F. Goodlatte
Jeff D. Harris

Mary DePoy Harris

 

John D. Klinedinst
Jack D. Kopald
Raymond F. Leven
Pamela Rogers Melton
Mark Jay Mennel
Robert G. Morecock
John C. Parker
Kenneth F. Parks
Benjamin G. Philpott
Richard A. Rogers
Jonathan W. Sager
Derek C. Swope
Sarah K. Wiant

CLASS OF 1979-L
John A. Agostini

S. Richard Arnold
Stanley G. Brading Jr.
William D. Broadhurst
Douglas C. Broeker
Frederick W. Bromm
John C. Bruton Jr.
Matthew J. Calvert

John A. Cocklereece Jr.

K. Joseph Cosgrove
Waller T. Dudley
Stetson W. Eddy
Charles E. Falk
Richard P. Goddard
David L. Heilberg
Michael B. Hubbard
David W. Johnson
Channing J. Martin
Gary S. Marx

J. Scott McCandless
Louis P. McFadden
John F. Mcintyre Jr.
David W. Meldman
John F. Murphy
Stuart B. Nibley
Barry J. Plunkett III
Thomas A. Price

W. Riker Purcell
Gerard R. Quinlan
J. Peter Richardson
Mark E. Sharp
Lynne P. Vollmer
Peter C. Williams
Robert B. Womble

CLASS OF 1980-L
Jacquelyn K. Boyden
Edward H. Brown
John R. Clark III
John P. Corrado
Powell L. Duggan
John J. Eklund

Sally P. Falck

John D. Fife Jr.

John A. Fraser Ill
Joan M. Gardner
Betsy Callicott Goodell
William R. Goodell
Llewellyn H. Hedgbeth
Thomas B. Henson
Robert A. Irons
James R. Pritchett
Dianne G. Ringer

M. Wayne Ringer
Thomas H. Romer
Kevin J. Ross
Michele K. Skarvelis
Elizabeth Turley
Patricia A. Van Allan
Cheryl Harris Wolfe
M. Lanier Woodrum
John B. Yellott Jr.
Mary A. S. Young

CLASS OF 1981-L

C. Cleveland Abbe
William L. Abernathy Jr.
Nate L. Adams III

Blas P. Arroyo

Charles F. Bahn Jr.
James F. Berl
Jonathan S. Berman
Michael E. Bongiorno

 

Patricia M. Brown
Sara A. Burford

Alan L. Button
Margaret H. Campbell
Ann B. Campfield
Malinda E. Dunn
John L. File

Samuel A. Flax
Shawn P. George
Jeffrey H. Gray
Nicholas H. Hantzes
Robert W. Hyde Jr.
Steven M. Johnson
Walter D. Kelley Jr.
Henry D. Lewis
Robert W. Ludwig Jr.
Gene A. Marsh
Jenelle Mims Marsh
Melisssa Warner McClenahan
Thomas M. Millhiser
Robert W. Moorhead III
Stephen M. Piper
Samuel P. Price
George S. Rayson
Richard P. Rodgers
Tracy G. Savage
Steven W. Schneider
Clara S. Smith

Nancy J. Spritzer
John M. Sullivan
Dawn E. Warfield
David G. Weaver
Mark A. Williams
Carolyn S. Wilson
Kerry M. Wilson
Elizabeth Devine Wiseman

CLASS OF 1982-L
Mary D. Allen

Eric A. Anderson
Larry A. Barden
Edward J. Bedford
Thomas R. Bender
David W. Black
Johnathan W. Bryan
Richard L. Burger
William J. Calore

 

Christine C. Chapman
James L. Chapman IV
Douglas J. Chumbley
Dana S. Connell
Robert M. Couch
Craig S. Davis

Susan M. Dern

Susan May Eckman
F. Matlock Elliott
Edward O. Falkowski
Linda Davis Frith
Thomas D. Frith III
Thomas Gearen
Catharine M. Gilliam
Charles D. Griffith Jr.
Bruce A. Hahn
William D. Johnston
Kirkland Molloy Kelley
John E. Lanier

J. Andrew Lark

D. Kevin McCorkindale
Joseph P. Mentor Jr.
Craig K. Morris
Richard B. Myers Jr.
Patrick D. O'Hare
Jeffrey C. Palkovitz
John K. Pearson Jr.
Dana C. Petersen
Kevin W. Ryan
Thomas Y. Savage
James R. Shoemaker
Patricia E. Sinskey
Nathan H. Smith
Allen T. Snyder Jr.
Julia G. Thigpen
Tony A. Trujillo Jr.
Caroline Wannamaker
Catherine S. Ward
Eric J. Ward

Kenneth X. Warren
Rand D. Weinberg
Neil J. Welch Jr.

CLASS OF 1983-L

W. Rodney Clement Jr.
Thomas J. Egan Jr.
Michael J. Farr

 

John P. Fishwick Jr.
Millard L. Fretland
David K. Friedfeld
H. Morgan Griffith
Christopher T. Hale
Carol L. Hoshall
Thomas H. Hunter I/II
Matthew L. Kimball
R. Brooke Lewis
Daniel H. Mason
John M. McGarry
W. Price Morrison Jr.
Alan B. Munro

Mary G. O’Brien
Robert J. Onda
John W. Person
Terry McKenney Person
David P. Phippen
William A. Powel III
William V. Pura
Melvin T. Rattray

D. Stowe Rose
Gordon W. Stewart
Paul H. Thomson

CLASS OF 1984-L
W. Thomas Booher
James William Christian Canup
Lawrence S. Crowther
Ellis B. Drew III

Paul W. Gerhardt
James L. Green
David J. Hansen
James M. Hicks Jr.
Mary Miller Johnston
Peter W. Leberman
Benton J. Mathis Jr.
J. Grant McGuire
Warren E. Nowlin
Robert S. Parker
Laurie A. Rachford
Joy M. Rattray

Daniel E. Riley
Gordon P. Robertson
Andrew T. Sanders Jr.
Dolores M. Schmitt

 

 

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1984-85

UNDERGRADUATE CLASSES

Class Agent

R. N. Latture
E. B. Shultz
W. J. Cox

No Agent

No Agent

No Agent

S. L. Raines
No Agent

No Agent

No Agent

E. T. Andrews
T. T. Moore
No Agent

No Agent

T. G. Gibson
H. G. Jahncke
H. M. Minniece
No Agent

C. J. Longacre
S. Mosovich

L. P. Gassman
G. W. Harrison
. K. Stuart

. N. Walker
F. Radcliffe
. V. Hersey

J. Warms

. D. Darby Jr.
. T. Wood

. D. Finney

. P. Mead

. G. Merrin

. W. Burton

. W. Saurs

. N. Clements
“e Gallivan

. E. Eagle

. C. McClerkin
. E. Smith

. H. Marion

. G. Gooch

. R. Warren

. A. Clinger

. B. Bryant

. Lassman

. M. Bowen

. L. Roberts

. R. Cole Jr.

. M. Schildt

. H. DeJarnette
. E. Lawrence
. S. Graham

. Atkins

_F. Carrere

. B. Wagner
B. Tompkins
. W. Robinson
. D. Eavenson
. C. Chase

. A. Keatley

. T. Jackson
L. Carrere
_V. Brown

. S. Jones

. C. Cornett

. Gammon

. B. Puryear

. L. Ross

M. Cleghorn

eee Ree STOW SESE EM OPT PROF:

W&L

. T. Fleishman |

Donors

OF WAMWAWANA

7,703
22,581

3, 631

 

LAW CLASSES

Class Class Agent Donors
00-21 No Agent

22 No Agent

23 No Agent

24 No Agent

25 No Agent

26 No Agent

27 No Agent

28 No Agent

29 No Agent

30 No Agent

31 No Agent

32 No Agent

33 F. R. Bigham 1
34 S. W. Wise

35 T. E. Sparks

36 W. L. Martin

37 J. Arnold

38 No Agent

39 T. A. Williams 1
40 No Agent

41 H. T. Dickinson 12
42 C. L. Walters 9
48 C. R. Allen 29
49 J. R. Larrick 25
50 R. B. Hailey 26
51 E. M. Holdaway 24
52 J. C. Reed Jr. 24
53 R. L. Banse 14
54 D. R. Klenk 11
55 R. W. Hudgins 12
56 R. S. Harp Ill 9
57 O. P. Pollard 16
58 R. E. Stroud 9
59 R. H. Horn 9
60 N. W. Bath 13
61 R. E. Shepherd 14
62 R. R. Robrecht 16
63 P. H. Boswell 10
64 T. W. Budd 23
65 J. E. Kulp 18
66 J. S. Maffitt 23
67 J. D. Logan 23
68 A. A. Jones 27
69 D. D. Redmond 25
70 E. B. Crosland 14
71 D. L. Baird 24
72 J. A. Philpott 11
73 J. C. Moore 42
74 S. G. Elkins 24
75 T. K. Wotring 29
76 S. D. Rosenthal 41
77 D. M. Thomas 30
78 D. Swope 25
79 J. F. Murphy 33
80 J. J. Eklund 28
81 D. G. Weaver 45
82 R. M. Couch 51
83 M. L. Kimball 25
84 P. W. Leberman 20

2,758
1,175

2,510
6,395

2,640
3,268
4,030
4,640
3,699
3,725
4,910
1,880
2,261
2,972
2,310
3,154
3,632
1,728

945

The Annual Fund:

Parents

Gifts by parents are especially significant because they
represent a generous ‘‘extra’’ investment in the quality of
education offered by Washington and Lee. The University is
especially grateful for this demonstration of confidence. Listed
here are the names of parents who contributed to the Annual
Fund in 1984-85. Those whose names are printed in bold face
type are members of the Lee Associates and made gifts of
$1,000 or more in 1984-85; those whose names are in italics
are members of the Colonnade Club and made gifts of

$100-$999 in 1984-85.

Mr. Alden R. Adams

Mr. & Mrs. James F. Adams

Mr. Richard B. Adams

Mrs. Sally A. Adams

Mrs. Charlotte Adler

Mr. S. E. Alexander

Dr. & Mrs. Bobby R. Alford
Mr. & Mrs. Fred Amico

Mrs. Laura Anderson

Mr. Richard D. Anderson

Mr. & Mrs. Fred L. Anker

Mr. & Mrs. Jack G. Armstrong
Mr. & Mrs. Tobin Armstrong

Mr. & Mrs. Pasquale J. Arpaia
Mr. & Mrs. William J. Atkins
Dr. & Mrs. Stewart Atkinson

Mr. & Mrs. James M. Auch ur.
Mr. & Mrs. Hugh H. Baird Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. R. S. Baizley

Mr. & Mrs. Stanley Baker

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas E. Baker
Mr. & Mrs. William R. Baldwin Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Charles M. Barger
Mr.& Mrs. William W. Barnes
Mr. & Mrs. Perry W. Bartsch

Mr. & Mrs. John H. Bauhan

Mr. & Mrs. Edward L. Beauchamp
Mrs. A. C. Bedford

Mr. Francis D. Bell

Mr. & Mrs. Charles L. Benedict
Mr. C. N. Berents Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Judah Best

Mr. & Mrs. John Bingham

Mr. & Mrs. Brad J. Bissinger

Dr. & Mrs. Thomas J. Blackwood
Mr. & Mrs. John G. P. Boatwright
Mr. & Mrs. George M. Boswell
Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth Braden

Mr. & Mrs. Wendell T. Breithaupt
Mr. & Mrs. Raleigh Brent

Dr. & Mrs. Earl J. Brewer Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Britton

Mr. & Mrs. H. D. Brookby

Mr. & Mrs. Russell J. Brooke
Dr. & Mrs. Charles H. Brooks
Mr. & Mrs. Fitzhugh L. Brown
Mr. & Mrs. Robert E. Brown
Rev. & Mrs. H. R. Bucey

Mr. & Mrs. James Burlingame III
Mr. & Mrs. J. C. Burris

Dr. & Mrs. Thomas W. Butler
Mr. & Mrs. Patrick Buttarazzi
Mr. & Mrs. William Byers

Dr. & Mrs. Millard Byrd

Mr. & Mrs. Calvin B. Cameron
Mr. & Mrs. Samuel H. Campbell III
Mr. Michael M. Canon

Mr. Louis H. Carl

Mrs. Katharine Caruthers

Dr. Rodolfo Celis

Mr. Harry M. Chapman

 

Mr. & Mrs. Herbert B. Chisholm
Mr. & Mrs. Dale Clark

Mr. & Mrs. John D. Clark

Mr. & Mrs. Harvey A. Clarke
Mr. James M. Clifton

Mr. & Mrs. Norman B. Cobb
Mr. & Mrs. Howard |. J. Collier
Mr. Edmund J. Conway

Mr. & Mrs. Charles N. Cooper
Mr. & Mrs. George T. Corrigan
Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Couch
Mr. Victor R. Coudert Jr.

Dr. & Mrs. Joseph W. Coxe Ill
Mrs. George Craig

Mr. & Mrs. Lloyd L. Craighill
Ms. Caroline A. Crawford

Mrs. Edward J. Crawford

Mr. & Mrs. John B. Cregan
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas E. Davey
Mr. & Mrs. Ralph P. Davidson
Mr. & Mrs. Richard M. Davis
Mr. & Mrs. Seymour Davis

Mr. & Mrs. William D. Davis
Mr. & Mrs. Frank R. Dawson
Dr. & Mrs. David DeHoll

Mr. & Mrs. Francis T. Deighan
Mr. & Mrs. Charles Denny

Rush S. Dickson Family Fdn., Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Joseph DiDuro

Mr. & Mrs. Robert S. Diehl

Mr. & Mrs. Harry J. Donahue
Mr. & Mrs. Joseph K. Donovan
Dr. & Mrs. Theodore J. Dubuque
Mr. & Mrs. Joseph D. Dulaney
Mr. & Mrs. John F. Dulken

Mr. A. Baker Duncan

Mr. & Mrs. P. L. Duncan

Mr. & Mrs. T. J. Duncan Jr.

Dr. & Mrs. Robert T. Dunn

Mr. & Mrs. Paul A. DuPre

Mr. & Mrs. Lynn D. Durham

- Mrs. Patricia M. Edelstein

Mrs. John B. Elliott Ii!

Mr. & Mrs. Aubrey J. Ellis

Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth E. Enney
Lt. Col. & Mrs. O. H. Entwistle Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. William E. Esham Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. J. Thomas Eubank
Mr. & Mrs. Albert A. Eustis

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas E. Farrell
Dr. Sam Fason

Mr. & Mrs. Robert A. Fearey
Mr. & Mrs. Lewis M. Fetterman
Mr. & Mrs. Sidney Finkelstein
Mr. & Mrs. Eben D. Finney

Mr. & Mrs. Elmer A. Fitzgerald
Mr. & Mrs. Gale R. Fletcher
Mr. & Mrs. Samuel J. Foley dr.
Dr. & Mrs. James L. Frey

Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Gammon
Mr. & Mrs. Richard S. Gatti Jr.

 

Dr. & Mrs. Edwin A. Gee

Mr. & Mrs. C. Meade Geisel Sr.
Mr. & Mrs. Sandy Giacobbe

Mr. William M. Gibson

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Giguere
Mr. Peter Gilbert

Mr. & Mrs. William M. Ginder
Mr. & Mrs. Herman E. Glassman
Mr. & Mrs. Howard G. Gold

Mr. & Mrs. Floyd D. Gottwald Jr.

Mr. Harry C. Gottwals

Mr. & Mrs. Fred W. Goundry
Mr. Richard B. Graves

Dr. William Graham Guerriero
Mr. & Mrs. Roger Gutowski
Mr. H. G. Hager

Mr. & Mrs. Charles Haggerty Jr.
Dr. & Mrs. M. Reza Hagigh
Mr. & Mrs. Channing M. Hall ur.
Dr. & Mrs. Arthur E. Halprin
Mr. James T. Hamlin

Mr. Gordon L. Hammock

Mr. & Mrs. John T. Hammond
Mr. Louis J. Hansen

Mr. & Mrs. Sinclair J. Harcus
Mr. & Mrs. Martin C. Harmon ur.
Mr. & Mrs. John J. Hartigan
Mr. & Mrs. William Y. Harvey
Mrs. Oliver H. Havens

Mr. Donald F. Hayden

Mr. & Mrs. James L. Hayne
Mrs. Frances Watt Haynes

Dr. & Mrs. A. E. Heimert

Mr. & Mrs. Charles C. Helscher
Mr. & Mrs. Robert A. Hemm
Mrs. Floylee H. Hemphill

Mr. & Mrs. B. K. Herman

Dr. & Mrs. John W. Herndon
Mr. & Mrs. Donald A. Holden
Mr. & Mrs. James F. Holmes
Dr. & Mrs. William Holmes

Mr. & Mrs. Frederick W. Hope Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Harold Y. Hoppes
Mr. Robert E. Hornik

Mr. & Mrs. R. D. Houlihan Jr.
Mr. Harold R. Howe

Mr. & Mrs. J. N. Humphreys
Dr. John A. Hunt

Mr. & Mrs. Charles S. Hunter
Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Hurley
Mr. & Mrs. Peter M. Husting
Mr. Raymond E. Hutchinson
Mr. & Mrs. John Ineson

Mr. & Mrs. Ross J. Interrante
Mr. & Mrs. James P. Jackson
Mr. & Mrs. Ronald Jakubek
Mr. Clarke B. Johnson

Mr. David T. Johnson Sr.
Mrs. Helen Johnson

Dr. Norman J. Johnson

Dr. & Mrs. Fred F. Johnston
Mrs. Barry Johnstone

Mr. Rudolph G. Johnstone Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Jimmy C. Jones
Mrs. Jonzennie M. Jones

Mr. Lloyd H. Jones

Mr. Thomas H. Jones

Mr. Lee Roy Jordan

Mr. & Mrs. Raymond S. Jordan
Dr. & Mrs. Samuel Kampf

Mr. and Mrs. Abe Kaplan

Mr. E. J. Kendall Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Whitney E. Kerr
Mr. & Mrs. James Killpack

Mr. & Mrs. John T. King III
Mr. & Mrs. H. B. Knight

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Knight

Mr. & Mrs. W. W. Knobloch
Mr. & Mrs. Robert V. Krikorian
Mr. & Mrs. Howard A. C. Kuehner
Mr. & Mrs. Vaden Lackey
Lalley Charitable Fund

Mr. & Mrs. Edward J. Lane Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth L. Lawing
Mrs. Nancy P. Lawson

Dr. Francis E. LeJeune Jr.

Dr. & Mrs. Donald R. Lewis
Mr. Harvey J. Lewis

Mr. & Mrs. Harry V. Lewis Jr.

 

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Lisi

Mr. & Mrs. J. Logan Look

Mr. & Mrs. John Lord

Mr. & Mrs. Victor Losquadro
Mr. & Mrs. S. Mark Lovell
Mrs. Lucille C. Lundy

Mr. Albert W. Lyle

Mr. & Mrs. Gerard R. Lynch
Mr. & Mrs. Albert J. Mara

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Marvin
Mr. William McKinnon Massie
Mr. & Mrs. Karl J Matzdorf

Mr. & Mrs. Robert F. Mausser
Mr. Hiram P. Maxim

Mr. & Mrs. Dennis D. Maxwell
Mr. & Mrs. Joseph P. McAllister
Mr. & Mrs. D. W. McCarthy

Mr. & Mrs. R. B. McClatchy

Mr. & Mrs. Robert S. McCoy Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Harold J. McCulloch
Mr. Patrick T. McMahon

Mr. & Mrs. William H. McNair
Dr. Sreedhara K. G. Menon

Mr. & Mrs. C. Irvin Messner

Mr. & Mrs. David L. Metz

Mr. & Mrs. Arnold F. Meyer
Mrs. Miranda B. Miles

Mr. & Mrs. Leo A. Militello

Dr. & Mrs. John W. Miller Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhiser
Mrs. Florence G. Mintz

Mr. & Mrs. John G. Mitchell Jr.
Mr. Louis Mondello

Mrs. William L. Monroe

Mr. & Mrs. John L. Montgomery
Mrs. Robert H. Monyek

Mrs. Lucille Moore

Dr. & Mrs. William L. Moore

Dr. Jose F. Morelos .

Mr. & Mrs. Walter K. Morris

Mr. John Morrow

Mr. & Mrs. Oliver H. Mowry

Dr. & Mrs. James J. Mulreany
Mr. & Mrs. Daniel L. Murphy Sr.
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas R. Murray
Dr. & Mrs. James L. Nave

Mrs. Alice Harvey Newman
Mrs. Madeleine B. Newman

Mr. Kadir R. Noor

Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Nutt dr.
Mr. & Mrs. Elliott M. Ogden Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Raymond S. Oliger
Mr. & Mrs. N. D. Osella

Mr. & Mrs. P. D. Pakula

Mrs. Leonard J. Paletta

Mrs. Prudence M. Palmer

Mr. & Mrs. James A. Paone
Capt. & Mrs. Jefferson D. Parker
Mr. & Mrs. Richard G. Parkhurst
Mr. & Mrs. Dean Patterson

Mr. & Mrs. George W. Peck
Ms. Eve S. Phoenix

Mr. & Mrs. William R. Pierce
Dr. & Mrs. Daniel W. Platt
Mr. & Mrs. F. C. Plitt-Jr:

Mr. & Mrs. Arlen S. Pockrass
Mr. & Mrs. David K. Poole

Mr. & Mrs. John L. Powers

Mr. & Mrs. Townes G. Pressler
Mr. & Mrs. James M. Quinlan
Mr. & Mrs. Carl Raichle

Mr. & Mrs. William P. Raines
Dr. & Mrs. Monroe J. Rathbone Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Alfred A. Reed

Mr. & Mrs. H. Ward Reighley
Mr. & Mrs. Rollin S. Reiter

Dr. & Mrs. Frank M. Rembert
Mr. & Mrs. Bruin S. Richardson
Mr. Reuben F. Richardson

Mr. & Mrs. Charles H. Rideout Sr.
Mr. & Mrs. T. Lee Robinson
Mr. & Mrs. Frank W. Rogers Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. William C. Rogers Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Michael J. Romanelli
Mr. & Mrs. Arthur M. Rose

Mr. & Mrs. John J. Ross

Mr. Jay A. Rothenberger

Mr. & Mrs. H. L. Boyer Royal

W&L == 35

Mr. & Mrs. A. T. Sanders

Mr. & Mrs. John R. Sanders

Mr. & Mrs. Lowell L. Sanders
Mr. & Mrs. Leslie T. Schakenback
Mrs. Mary Ruth Scott

Mr. & Mrs. Richard T. Scruggs
Mr. & Mrs. Donald H. Seid

Mr. & Mrs. John R. Seifert

Mr. & Mrs. Morris L. Seleznick
Mr. & Mrs. John S. Shannon
Mrs. Virginia A. Sharp

Mr & Mrs William A. Shearer Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Richard C. Sheldon
Mrs. Martha Shelton-Wolf

Dr. Thomas B. Shepherd Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. H. Reese Shoemaker Ur.

Dr. & Mrs. Sanford R. Singer
Mr. & Mrs. John M. Slack III
Dr. & Mrs. James B. Sloan

Mr. & Mrs. James G. Small

Mr. & Mrs. Leland R. Speed
Mr. & Mrs. William R. Spofford Jr.
Mr. David W. Sprunt

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Stachura
Mr. & Mrs. John M. Stack

Mr. & Mrs. S. T. Stackhouse
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Steilberg
Mr. & Mrs. Warren L. Stern

Mr. Frank K. Stillwagon

Mr. & Mrs. Robert L. Strickland
Mr. & Mrs. Eugene Stuart

Mrs. Marcelline Sullivan

Mr. & Mrs. John C. Szczecinski
Dr. John E. Tartaglione

Col. & Mrs. Harold T. Taylor
Dr. & Mrs. F. B. Teague Jr.

Mr. Fred Thieringer Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. James R. Thompson
Mr. R. F. Thornton

Mr. & Mrs. W. Bryan Trammell
Mr. & Mrs. R. H. Trumbo

Mr. & Mrs. W. Warren Upton

 

Mrs. Majorie H. Valliere

Mr

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Dr.

Mr.

Mr
Mr
Mr

Mr.

Dr.
Mr

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

. & Mrs. John H. Van Amburgh
& Mrs. Robert N. Van Son
& Mrs. Joseph C. Vawter
Walter E. Veghte Jr.
& Mrs. James E. Vesper
& Mrs. Edgardo P. Villamater
& Mrs. James M. Vines
. & Mrs. Karl E. Vogt
. Hans H. Walter
. & Mrs. Edward T. Walters
& Mrs. John T. Warmath Jr.
& Mrs. Charles E. Warner
. & Mrs. John W. Weaver
Vernon A. Webster
& Mrs. James Weiss
& Mrs. Robert J. Whann Ill

Mr. & Mrs. Charles C. White Jr.

Mr
Dr.
Mr

s. Joanna White
& Mrs. Stanley White
. & Mrs. Russell W. Whitman

Mr. & Mrs. Louis L. Wilbanks

Mr

. & Mrs. F. M. Wiley

Mrs. Margaret Wilkerson
Mr. & Mrs. W. R. Wilkerson
Mr. & Mrs. Donald M. Wilkinson Jr.

Mr

_E. M. Wilkinson Jr.

Mrs. Victoria T. Willett

Mr

Mr.

Dr.

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Dr.

Mr.
Mr.

. & Mrs. Cranston Williams

& Mrs. James B. Williams

& Mrs. James Williamson

& Mrs. Robert H. Willis

& Mrs. Conrad Wilmar

& Mrs. Anthony M. Wilson
& Mrs. Grover Winstead Jr.
& Mrs. Walter |. Wolfson

& Mrs. Robert K. Woltz

& Mrs. W. K. Woodward

& Mrs. Landon R. Wyatt Jr.
& Mrs. Kenneth E. Young
& Mrs. Robert J. Young Jr.
& Mrs. Richard W. Zahn Sr.

 

The Annual Fund:

Friends

Washington and Lee is deeply grateful for the gifts receiv-
ed in support of current operations from persons who are
neither alumni nor parents. Most of the gifts from these
‘‘friends’’ are unrestricted and are given in the form of direct
grants or in the form of memorials. Those whose names are
printed in bold face type are members of the Lee Associates
and made gifts of $1,000 or more in 1984-85; those whose
names are in italics are members of the Colonnade Club and

made gifts of $100-$999 in 1984-85.

Mr. & Mrs. Sanford E. Abelson
Mrs. Ann Rawls Adams
Mrs. Joan K. Armstrong
Mr. & Mrs. Jack W. Blair
Mrs. Jeanne N. Breitung
Cadaver

Mrs. Anne Scott Carr

Mr. Lowry M. Close

Mr. Howard E. Cobb

Mrs. Parker S. Crosland
Mrs. M. F. N. Cummings
Mr. J. Sanford Doughty
Mrs. Thomas P. Duncan
Flaberg Corporation
Frigid Freeze Foods inc.
Mr. Stephen H. Greene
Mrs. H. M. Hayne

Dr. Virginia Huffer

36 W&L

 

Mr. & Mrs. Samuel Jones
Mrs. Elinor H. McKee
Carter V. McNeese

Mrs. Dorothy S. Milling
Mrs. A. Milton Morrison
Northwestern National Bank
Mrs. William C. Orth

ss Mary R. Quinlan

Mrs. Oscar G. Rawls

Ms. Mildred C. Richmond
Mrs. William H. Robinson
Mr. J. Samuel Slicer

Mrs. James G. Smith

Mrs. Carl B. Stone

Rev. Baker J. Turner

Mrs. Romulus Weatherman
Dr. John D. Wilson

Mrs. Roberta G. Woodell

 

Memorials

To honor fellow alumni, relatives, or friends, many donors

_make gifts to Washington and Lee for capital or current sup-

port in the form of memorials. Donors of such gifts in
1984-85 are listed elsewhere in this report in the appropriate

places based on the purpose of their gifts. Listed here are the

names of those honored by such gifts.

William H. Armstrong ’43
John W. Ball ’32, ’35L
Joseph Gilbert Barkley ’59
John S. Beagle ’65

Adrian L. Bendheim Jr. '42
Harry A. Berry Jr. '49, 51L
John Roser Bestor '82
John Beury ‘31

Melissa Boyd

Albert Breitung '44

Julian Broome '32

Deverton Carpenter '36
Thomas H. Carter '54
William W. Chaffin 1891
Mrs. Maurice Kistler Chappius
James H. Clark ‘31

James T. Cook Jr. 54+
Lloyd Cowan ’48L

Rugeley P. DeVan Jr. '34
Gary H. Dobbs III '70+
Thomas E. Ennis +

E. McGruder Faris Jr. ’49, '51L
Benjamin F. Fiery °13
James V. Freeman ’32
Edward S. Graves '30 +
Mrs. Margaret R. Harkey
George M. B. Hawley II '36
Henry H. Hecht '59

William Baylis Hightower ‘32
William F. Hirschmann IV ‘76
J. Christopher Hunter '86
Lewis K. Johnson +

 

W. Courtney King Sr.

John B. King Jr. °71L

Charles V. Laughlin +

Gerald M. Malmo Jr. '49

David J. McGarry ’81

William C. Orth '35

John Howard Perkins

Marjorie Poindexter +

Thomas Smith Purdie 1874

William H. Robinson '34, ’37L

Rae and Ben Schewel

Leon F. Sensabaugh +

George R. Shaw '15

James G. Smith ’25

Richard A. Smith °13

Mrs. Celia Starkman

Leslie Storey Stemmons '27L

Carl B. Stone '23

Jay W. Stull 60

James W. Stump ’53, ’59L

C. Bancroft Taylor '32

Fred M. Vinson Jr. ’48, ’51L

Romulus T. Weatherman +

Felix P. Welch +

Donald A. Willis °75L

Thomas C. Wilson Jr. '43

Francis Beverley Whiting

Maxwell Penrose Wilkinson '28

Walter White Wood '25L

William L. Woodall ’32

+a member of the W&L faculty
or staff

 

Virginia Foundation

for

Independent

Colleges

A record $2,758,707 was contributed by business and in-
dustry to 14 private Virginia colleges through the VFIC during
1984-85. Washington and Lee’s share was $210,624. This
magnificent total was beneficially influenced by a $100,000
challenge offered by Ethyl Corporation of Richmond,
Virginia. The challenge was fully met.

Under the direction of a board that includes 40 business
leaders and the presidents of the 14 independent colleges, the
VFIC enlisted nearly 1,000 supporters, primarily corporations
doing business in Virginia who are concerned with strengthen-
ing private higher education. Because of space limitations, the
full listing of donor sources published annually in the VFIC
annual report is not repeated here. Washington and Lee
acknowledges with gratitude the concern and leadership of the
companies, foundations and individuals who made generous
contributions for private higher education through the VFIC.

 

 

 

Business and Industry

Washington and Lee University was assisted in large
measure during 1984-85 by direct grants for current expen-
ditures from corporations in addition to corporate assistance
received through the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges (VFIC). Investments by private business in private
education take on special meaning and importance. The total
of these gifts during the 1984-85 year was $48,449.

American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.
Amoco Foundation, Inc.
Berkley Machine Works & Foundry Co.
Boothe, Prichard & Dudley
Brinkman Associates
Buquet Distributing Company, Inc.
Canon Safety & Health Co., Inc.
CityScape Tours
Coudert Associates, Inc.
The Decatur Daily
DeJarnette Investment Advisors
Dibrell Brothers, Inc.
Fujitsu Microelectronics, Inc.
Hall
Frederick N., Haring, D.D.S., Inc.
Hunton & Williams
Ice Cream Works, Inc.
Kaufman & Canoles
Luster & Conine
Lykes Brothers, Inc.
Martin, Taylor, Fralin,

Freeman & Perrow
Mays, Valentine, Davenport & Moore
Metal Distributors, Inc.
Noble, Glen & Associates, Inc.
Palmetto Builders
Q-tronics Company
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc.
Research Corporation
The Roanoke Times and World-News
John H. Rozelle Company
The Sears-Roebuck Foundation
Stonereath Farms
Town & Country Veterinary Clinic
Valley Center Florist
Virginia Environmental Endowment
The Virginian-Pilot and The Ledger-Star

Matching Gifts

3M Company

A-SPS Incorporated

Abex Corp

Aetna Life Casualty

Air Products Chemicals Inc.
Alcoa Foundation

Allied Chemical Corporation
Allstate Ins. Co.

Amax Foundation

American Airlines

American Bell Inc.

American Broadcasting Co.
American Cyanamid Co.
American Enka Corp.
American Express Co.
American Hospital Supply Corp.
American International Group
American Maize Products Co.
American Standard Inc.

AMF Foundation

Amoco Foundation Inc.
Analog Devices Inc.

Arco Corporation

Armco Inc.

Armstrong World Industries Inc.
Arthur Andersen Co.
Ashland Oil Inc.

AT&T Foundation

Atlantic Richfield Co.
Automatic Data Processing
B. F. Goodrich

 

Bank of New York

Bank South

BankAmerica Foundation
Bankers Trust Co., N.Y.
Barclays American Corp.
Becton Dickinson Co.

Bell Of Pennsylvania

Bellcore Communications
Berkshire Hathaway

Best Products Co.

Bethlehem Steel Corp.

Black Decker Mfg Co.

Blue Bell Inc.

BOC Group

Boise Cascade Corp.
BrownForman Distillers Co.
Burroughs Corp.

C. P. C. International Inc.
Cahill, Gordon & Reindel
Campbell Soup Co.
Celanese

Centel Corporation
Certainteed Corporation
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Bank

Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Chevron USA Inc

Chicago Title Trust Co.
Chubb & Son Inc.

CIBA Geigy Chemical Corp
CIGNA Corp

Citicorp

Citizens Southern National Bank
CNA Foundation

Coca Cola Co.

Columbia Gas Transmission
Combustion Engineering Inc.
Commercial Union Assurance Co.
Conn Bank Trust Co.
Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co.
Consolidated Foods Corp.
Constellation Reinsurance Co.
Continental Carbon Co.
Continental Telecomm. Inc.
Cooper Industries Foundation
Coopers Lybrand

Corning Glass Works

Cowles Media Co.

Crocker National Bank

Crum Forster Group Ins.
Dana Corporation

Dennison Mfg. Co.

Digital Equipment Corporation
Dominion Bankshares Inc.
Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette
Dow Jones Co.

Dravo Corp.

Duke Power Co.

Dunn & Bradstreet Inc.

Elis Olsson Chesapeake Fdn.
Emerson Electric Company
ENSERCH Corporation
Equitable Life Assurance Society
Ernest Whinney

Esmark Inc. Foundation

Ethyl Corp.

Exxon Education Foundation
Faegre Benson

Fairchild Industries Fdn, Inc.
Fairfax Inc.

Federated Investors Inc.
Fidelity Bank

Firemans Fund Insurance Co.
First Atlanta Corp.

 

First Kentucky National Corp.
First Maryland Foundation
First Nat'l Bank Of St. Louis:
First National Bank of Chicago
First Union National Bank
First VA Banks Inc.

FMC Corp.

Ford Motor Co.

Freeport McMoran Inc.
Fruehauf Corp.

Gannett Company Inc.
GATAX Corporation

General Dynamics Corp.
General Electric Foundation
General Foods Corp.
General Mills

General Reinsurance Co.
Georgia Pacific Corporation
Goldman Sachs Co.
Goodyear Tire Co.

Grace Foundation, Inc.
Great Lakes Rubber Co.
GTE Corporation

Gulf Oil Corp.

Gulf States Utilities

H&R Block Foundation
Halliburton Education Fdn.
Hammermill Foundation
Harris Corp.

Harte-Hanks Communications
Hartford Insurance Group
HCA Foundation

Hercules Inc.

Hershey Fund

Hewlett Packard

Hoffmann La Roche Inc.
Home Life Insurance Co.
Household International

IC| Americas Inc.

Industrial Indemnity Co.
Ingersoll Rand Co.

IBM

Internat’l Minerals & Chemical
International Telephone & Telegraph
J. Paul Getty Trust

J. P. Stevens Co., Inc. Fdn.
James River Corp.

Jefferson Pilot Corporation
John Deere Co.

Johnson Higgins of VA
Johnson Higgins of PA Inc.
Johnson Higgins Of Kentucky
Johnson & Higgins Of NJ
Johnson & Higgins of Ga Inc.
Johnson Johnson

Jones Group Inc.

Kaiser Cement Corp.
Kentucky Power Co.

Kidder Peabody Co.
KimberlyClark

K-Mart Corp.

The Koppers Company Inc.
Kraft Incorporated

Lenox Inc.

Leo Burnett Co., Inc.

Lone Star Industries

Lukens Steel Co., PA

Mac Panel Co.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Marathon Oil

Marley Fund

Marsh McLennan Inc.

Martin Marietta Corp.
Massachusetts Mutual Life
May Stores Foundation Inc.
McDonalds Corp.

McDonnell Douglas Corp.
McGraw Edison Co.
McGuire, Woods & Battle
McKesson Educational Fdn., Inc.
Mead Corporation Foundation
Merck Co.

Merrill Lynch Co.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.
Milliken Co.

Mitre Corporation

Mobil Oil Corp.

Monsanto Co.

 

Montgomery Ward Co.
Mony New York City
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.
Morgan Lewis Bockius
Morgan Stanley Co. Inc.
Nabisco

-N C R Foundation

National City Bank

National Gypsum Company
National Life Insurance Of VT
National Steel Corporation
National Westminster Bank USA
Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co.
New England Life Ins. Co.
New Jersey Bell Telephone Co.
New York Life Foundation
Norfolk Southern Fdn.

North American Phillips Corp.
Northern States Power Co.
Northern Telecom., Inc.
Northern Trust Co., Intl. Dept.
Northwestern Mutual Life
Northwestern National Life Ins.
Norwest Bank Minneapolis NA
Occidental Petroleum

Olin Corporation

Peat Marwick Mitchell Co.

J. C. Penney, Inc.
Pennsylvania Power Light
Peoples Bank

Phelps Dodge Corp.

Phillip Morris Inc.

Phillips Petroleum Co.
Piedmont Aviation, Inc.
Pittsburgh National Bank
Polaroid Foundation Inc.
Price Waterhouse

Proctor Gamble Fund
Provident Life Accident
Prudential Ins. Co. of America
Quaker Oats Foundation

R. H. Macy, Inc.

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.
Reynolds Metals Co.
Rockwell International

Rohm Haas

Royal Cup, Inc.

San Diego Gas Electric Co.
Scripps-Howard Inc.
Seaboard System Railroad
Seattle Trust and Savings
Shell Oil Co.

Shenandoah Life Ins. Co.
Sidley & Austin

Signode Corp.

Smith, Kline, Beckman Fdn.
Standard Oil Co. Of Ohio
Sonat Incorporated

South Carolina National Bank
South Central Bell Tel. Co.
Southeast Electronics, Inc.
Southeast Banking Corporation
Southland Financial Corp.
Southside Animal Clinic.
Southwestern Bell Tel.
Sovran Financial Corporation
Sperry Corp.

Sprague Electric Co.

Springs Industries, Inc.
Stanadyne, Inc.

State Farm Companies Fdn.
State Mutual of Amercica Ins.
Sun Refining & Marketing Co.
Suna Brothers

Superior Oil Co.

Sybron Corporation

Syntex Corp.

Syva Co.

T. Rowe Price Assoc. Fdn., Inc.
Tandy Corp./Radio Shack
Tanner Companies

Tektronix Corp.

Tenneco

Texaco Philanthropic Fdn.
Texas Commerce Bank
Texas Instruments, Inc.
Texasgulf, Inc.

Textron Charitable Trust

W&L 37

The Continental Group

The Liberty Corporation

The New York Times

The Philadelphia National Bank
Third National Bank

Thomas & Fiske

Thomas & Betts Corp.

Time, Inc.

Times Publishing Company
Tops Business Service

Tracor, Inc.

Travelers Ins. Co.

Trust Co., Georgia

TRW, Inc.

Turner Constr. Co.

Tydings Rosenberg

U. S. Engineering Co.

U. S. Fidelity Guaranty

U. S. Tobacco Co.

UGI Corporation

Union Camp Corp.

Union Carbide Corp.

Union Oil Co. of California
Union Trust Co.

United Engineers & Construction
United States Leasing Intl., Inc.
U. S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co.

 

United VA Bank

United Brands Foundation
United States Trust Co. Of NY
United Technologies Corp.
Universal Leaf Tobacco Co.
Upper Valley Transport System
Valley National Bank
Vanguard Group

Vulcan Materials Co.

W. W. Norton & Company
Wachovia Corp.
Warner-Lambert Co.
Washington Post News
Wausau Intl.

WDVMTV

Welch Foods

Wells Fargo Bank Na

West Point Pepperell, Inc.
Western Electric Co.
Westinghouse Educational Fdn.
Westvaco Corp.

Whirlpool Corporation
Winston-Salem Health Care
The Wiremold Foundation, Inc.
Xerox Corp

Zapata Corporation

 

Foundations

Because a foundation’s grant to an educational institution
is a highly respected public endorsement of the institution’s
leadership and educational program, Washington and Lee
acknowledges with special gratitude the new commitments it
received from foundations in support of current operations in
1984-85. (Other foundation gifts in fulfillment of prior pledges
are listed in the section describing gifts for capital purposes.)

George |. Alden Trust

D. S. Blount Educational Foundation

George Newton Bullard Foundation

Cloverland Farms Foundation, Inc.

The Westmoreland Davis Memorial
Foundation, Inc.

The Eisenman Foundation

Mamie F. Martel Trust

 

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

E. A. Morris Charitable Foundation
National Newspaper Foundation
Mary Moody Northen, Inc.

The Richard Nelson Ryan Foundation
Telford Foundation, Inc.

Whitehall Foundation, Inc.

 

 

Capital Gifts

Listed below are the names of 823 alumni, friends,
parents, corporations, and foundations who made gifts either
for some form of endowment, for enlargement or improve-
ment of the physical plant or for a restricted purpose during
the 1984-85 year. The total of new commitments, not in-
cluding payments on pledges reported in prior years, is

$4,723,250.

Dr. Andrew H. Abernathy Ill P

Mr. & Mrs. Cecil E. Abernethy F

William R. Acquavella '59

Dr. Edward M. Adler '79

John A. Agostini '79L

Alcoa Foundation

J. W. Alderson Jr. '28

Dr. Aristides C. Alevizatos '56

Dr. & Mrs. H. C. Alexander III P

Dr. & Mrs. Bobby R. Alford P

Mrs. Barbara J. Allen P

Ethan Allen ’31L

The American League of Professional
Baseball Clubs

Frederick F. Amico P

Mr. & Mrs. C. H. Anderson F

Mrs. Judy B. Anderson P

Ms. Susan M. Andrus P

Mrs. Patricia K. Arey F

Stephen E. Arey ’75L

George S. Arnold ’28L

Pasquale J. Arpaia P

Mrs. Rosemary Arthur P

Randall W. Atkins ’76L

Thomas P. Atkins ‘69

John K. Aurell '56

Cdr. William B. Bagbey '38

Frank A. Bailey Ill '66

Dr. David M. Baker ’59

Mrs. Paula Baker P

Richard T. Baker F

James M. Ballengee '48L

Mr. & Mrs. Emerson Banack Jr. P

Dr. Douglas E. Barnard ’60

Mr. & Mrs. Norman M. Barnard F

R. B. Barnes Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. Watson Barnes P

Arthur E. W. Barrett Jr. °55

Col. Michael J. Barrett Jr. ’49, °51L

A. Greer Barriault '78

Frank Barron '52

Mr. & Mrs. James A. Barry P

John D. Bassett Ill '59

Mrs. Patricia E. Bassett P

Dr. John T. Bate '19

Mr. & Mrs. Richard Baylor F

Robert P. Beakley '72L

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Beckert P

Beckett Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Louise S. Behrman F

Sam Bendheim Ill '57

Mr. & Mrs. Norman J. Benford P

Erik Bennorth P

Mr. & Mrs. F. Fox Benton Jr. 60

Dr. Peter W. Bergstrom F

Mrs. Constance H. Bernstein P

Dr. William J. Berry '47

Best Products Foundation

Andrew Bestor F

Mrs. Nancy Bestor P

Arthur A. Birney ’50, ’52L

John K. Boardman ’51

Calhoun Bond °43

T. Talbott Bond ‘51

James D. Bonebrake '54

G. Michael Boswell P

James M. Boswell '57

Granville S. R. Bouldin '49, ’51L

Ms. Diane Bowen F

Edward L. Bowie '49

Cpt. Edward L. Bowie Jr. '80

Dr. Robert S. Boyd P

J. Bayard Boyle Jr. '58

 

David M. Bradt Jr. °74L

Frank H. Brady '32 Estate

Mr. & Mrs. Wendell T. Breithaupt P
Dr. Earl J. Brewer Jr. F
Randolph W. Brinton '68

Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Britton P
Thomas H. Broadus Jr. ‘59
Amb. & Mrs. William E. Brock III °53
Dr. Charles H. Brooks P

John H. Brooks '45

Dr. Paul A. Brower ’68

Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr. ’49

Dr. S. K. Brown P

Mrs. Jean C. Brown P

Robert G. Brown '49

Hon. James T. Broyhill F
Corbet F. Bryant Jr. 68
Thomas W. Budd ’61, '64L

N. Gregory Buis F

Martin P. Burks '32L

George E. Burks '27

James M. Burlingame P

Mrs. Ruth W. Bussiere F

Mrs. Elizabeth B. Butler P
William E. Buxton ’40
Cadaver

Prof. Samuel W. Calhoun F
Dr. John R. Calvert 54

Prof. Robert Campbell F

Peter M. Candler '64

Mrs. Hellen |. Cannon P

Mrs. William H. Carder P
David D. Carothers '61

C. M. Carpenter F

Herbert P. Carroll F

Ms. Florence B. Carter F
Kathleen T. Carter F Estate
Mrs. Katharine R. Caruthers P
Mr. & Mrs. John J. Casey P
Mrs. Mary Ann Cassel P

Dr. Rodolfo Celis P

H. Glenn Chaffer '49
Benjamin L. Chapman ’64
Mrs. Sophie A. Chapman F
William F. Chew '68

Dr. Carey D. Chisholm '76
Evan Alevizatos Chriss '42
Lotte R. Christensen F

Mr. & Mrs. Ronald Christensen F
Mr. & Mrs. David M. Clark F
William H. Clark Jr. 60, ’63L
Mr. & Mrs. Ernest H. Clarke ’52, '58L
Palmore Clarke '80

Mr. & Mrs. Joseph Clements P
James M. Clifton P

Ms. Marilynn J. Cobb P

Ms. Iris N. Cobble F

Lester V. Coe P

Madison F. Cole Jr. '71

John Peter Coll Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. T. M. Collerain P
Dr. Milton Colvin F

Charles E. Commander Ill 62
David B. Cook ’81

Mrs. Hervey Cook F

Dr. Jay D. Cook Jr. '43
Rodney M. Cook ’46

Charles N. Cooper P

Mr. & Mrs. Alan D. Corwith ’73
Mr. & Mrs. L. Arlen Cotter P
George L. Cowan Ill '48L Estate
Mrs. Jennifer E. Cox P

Mrs. Lelah Price Coyle P

F. Thorns Craven ’62

Ms. Caroline A. Crawford F

Ms. Berthenia Crocker ’78L

Edward S. Croft Ill 64

Mrs. Judith M. Crooker P

Mrs. Nancy Larrick Crosby F

Edward B. Crosland Sr. P

Richard F. Cummins '59

Miss Alice Cunningham F

Miss Helen Cunningham F

John J. Czyzewski ’66, '68L

Warren Daane F

Edward C. Darling ‘52

Mr. & Mrs. Ralph P. Davidson P

Francis A. Davis Jr. ’48

Ms. Rebecca W. Davis F

Richard M. Davis P

John C. Dawson Jr. ’60

Peter D. DeBoer ’49

John H. DeCourcy F

W. C. Deering F

Dr. J. David deHoll P

Mrs. Veronica M. Deighan F

David S. DeJong '75L

Delta Upsilon Fraternity

Peter M. de Manio ’66L

Mr. & Mrs. Charles W. Denny P

Michael T. DeVan F

Rugeley P. DeVan Ill ’63

Dr. W. Todd DeVan '33

The Dickson Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Michela Diduro P

Gregory J. Digel ’70, °73L

W. W. Diggs '54

Ms. Dorothy P. Dillon ’80L

Richard E. Dixon P

Frank A. D’Lauro Jr. '62

Howard W. Dobbins ’42L

Gary H. Dobbs III 70 Estate

Thomas Donahoo P

Harry J. Donahue P

Ms. Harriet D. Dorsey ’76L

John D. Drinko F

Joseph D. Dulaney P

Mr. & Mrs. James E. Dunn Jr. ’82

Jessie Ball duPont Religious,
Charitable and Educational Fund

Mr. & Mrs. Paul A. DuPre P

Sherman Dye F

Alfred H. Ebert Jr. '50

Mrs. LaPrelle Edens F

Stetson W. Eddy '79L

Ms. Regina M. Ednie '80L

Daniel Mark Einstein ‘83

H. Watkins Ellerson Ill °73L

E. Tazewell Ellett °77L

Mr. & Mrs. Aubrey J. Ellis P

David M. Ellis ’65

Joseph F. Ellis Jr. 43

Mr. & Mrs. Richard C. Emrey P

Frank G. English P

Mrs. Thomas E. Ennis F

Enterra Corporation

E. Stewart Epley ‘49

Mr. & Mrs. William E. Esham Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. J. Thomas Eubank P

William L. Evans Jr. ‘41

Andrew N. Farley P

Paul N. Farquharson '84

Robert R. Feagin Jr. ‘60

W. Lawrence Fellman '67

Allen Mead Ferguson ’60

Dr. William J. Fidler ’61

First Slovak Wreath of the Free Eagle

Norman Fischer '49

William H. Fleming F

Dan H. Flournoy '64

Mr. & Mrs. Samuel J. Foley Jr. P

Edwin J. Foltz '40L

The Fortnightly Club of Roanoke

Charles D. Fox Ill F

J. Carter Fox '61

John G. Fox ’44, ’49L

Lawrence H. Framme Ill '74L

The Ershel A. Franklin
Charitable Unitrust

Joseph J. French Jr. ‘50

Carl C. Fritsche '53

James F. Gallivan '51

 

Benjamin D. S. Gambill Jr. ’67

Mr. & Mrs. Louis Garavente P

James P. Garner F

Ralph E. Garner 74

Mr. & Mrs. William A. Garrett P

Mr. & Mrs. Richard S. Gatti Jr. P

Charles S. Gay '56, '58L

Ms. Karen L. Geary '77L

Prof. William S. Geimer F

Anthony F. Gerike '55, ‘62L

Floyd Brian Gibson ‘82

R. Gordon Gooch '56

John D. Goodin '39L

Robert U. Goodman ’50

Bruce N. Gordin '74

William S. Gorman ‘77

Dr Paul L: Gorsuch’ dr. 75S

Ms. Margaret R. Goss P

Mr. & Mrs. Floyd D. Gottwald Jr. F

Harry C. Gottwals P

William J. Goyer F

Col. William W. Graham ’49

Fred King Granade '75L

Edward S. Graves '30

Ms. Marilyn S. Greenberg F

Stephen |. Greenhalgh °77L

Mr. & Mrs. William R. Greer Sr. P

H. Morgan Griffith '83L

Mrs. Kathleen A. Griffith F

James B. Groff P

Prof. Roger Groot F

Dr. Francis C. Grumbine ’67

Thad Grundy Jr. ’75

Thad Grundy Sr. P

Prof. Mark Grunewald F

Ms. Elizabeth T. Guarino ’77L

C. F. Gummey Jr. '63

Mr. & Mrs. Henry Gunst Jr. F

Mr. & Mrs. Stephen B. Haggerty P

Lee Halford Jr. '69

Channing M. Hall Jr. P

Col. & Mrs. Warren W. Halstead F

Raymond W. Haman '52L

Mr. & Mrs. J. S. Hamblen P

Carl Martin Hames F

John G. Hamilton '32

Mr. & Mrs. W. L. Hampton P

C. M. Hamrick Jr. F

Guy M. Harbert III ’83L

John F. Hardesty Jr. ’50

Judge Alex M. Harman ur. ’44L

G. Lee Harralson P

Mrs. John L. Hart F

Robert D. Hart Jr. '63

Mr. & Mrs. John J. Hartigan P

Mr. & Mrs. R. L. Hartman Jr. P

Ray V. Hartwell Ill ’69, °75L

Ms. Constance Ray Harvey F

Ms. Joan M. Haskett P

Frank B. Hayne ‘15 Estate

James L. Hayne P

Mrs. Alice M. Head P

Henry H. Hecht Jr. ‘59 Estate

William R. Hemphill Jr. ’86

Mrs. William R. Hemphill P

John Franklin Hendon '24 Estate

Dean Edward O. Henneman F

Dr. Paul E. Henson Jr. P

The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Daniel J. Hickey P

James C. Hickey ’62

Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman Jr. F

Steven L. Higgs ’80

Harry H. Hill Jr. °49

Robert W. Hilton Jr. °39

W. Hayne Hipp '62

Mrs. Margaret Hird F

Mr. & Mrs. Carl H. Hirsch F

William F. Hirschmann P

Edward P. Hobbs ’62

Theodore S. Hochstim ’48

John F. Hoffman °75L

Sam B. Hollis ’51

Mr. & Mrs. Walter W. Hollis P

James F. Holmes P

Donnis E. Honeycutt Jr. P

George E. Honts Ill 62, ‘68L

 

William B. Hoofstitler '36
Frederick W. Hope Jr. P
Harold Y. Hoppes P

Farris P. Hotchkiss '58

Mr. & Mrs. Elton Hoyt III F
John K. Hudson P

James Humphreys '87L

Dr. H. Robert Huntley F
Charles D. Hurt Jr. ’59
Richard A. Hurxthal ’50
Christopher Hutchins '60
Raymond E. Hutchinson P
Alton R. Hyatt F

W. G. ller P

Ms. Carlyn W. Immerman P
Charles M. Ives Jr. P

Michael K. Jackson ’78L
Terrence Garry Jackson ’75L
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas S. Jacoby P
Mr. & Mrs. Ronald Jakubek P
Tyson L. Janney '53

Mr. & Mrs. Paul J. Janyska P
Dean Lewis G. John '58
David T. Johnson Sr. P

Dr. Fred F. Johnston P
Henry P. Johnston Sr. '29
Mr. & Mrs. David H. Jones P
Mr. & Mrs. Jimmy C. Jones P
Ms. Jonzennie M. Jones P
Lloyd H. Jones P

Mr. & Mrs. R. Clifton Jones Jr. P
Mrs. W. R. Jones F

Lee Roy Jordan P

Dr. Lewis J. Joseph P
Kanawha City Company

R. R. Kane Ill '54L

Dr. Alan L. Kaplan 51
Sidmon J. Kaplan ’56

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Keanna P
Joseph S. Keelty '44

Thomas B. Kellam P

The Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller Jr. ’39
James Joseph Kelley '74L
Mr. & Mrs. James F. Kelly P
Kendall Family Educational Trust
Mr. & Mrs. W. Franklin Kepler F
Ms. Paula A. Kerns F

Guy H. Kerr ’75

John H. Kerr Ill P

Ms. Susan S. Kerr P
Theodore M. Kerr '57, ’59L
Dr. Emory Kimbrough Jr. F
Thomas R. King ur. ’74L
John B. Kinkead ’53

Dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. F
Murrel D. Klein °25

Mrs. Diane Knapp P

Edward P. Knight P

William W. Knobloch P

John G. Koedel Jr. ’59

Jack D. Kopald ’78L

S L Kopald ur. '43

Eugene E. Krewson ’35

Dr. E. Ross Kyger Ill 63
Albert S. Kyle 49

Ralph D. Lackey F

Vaden Lackey Jr. P

John L. Lancaster Ill 58
Robert P. Lancaster '62

W. Hanes Lancaster Jr. '46
William A. Landreth '37
Edward H. Lane Foundation
John Edward Lane Ill ’74
Landon B. Lane Jr. ’72

Mrs. Edward W. Laney Ill P
W. H. Langhorne ’83

James R. Larrick Jr. ’81L
Andrew S. Lasine ’83L

Sam P. Latture F

William E. Latture '49

Mrs. Hope E. Laughlin F
Joseph S. Laurent ’55

John H. Lawrence ‘41
Samuel S. Laws F Estate
Howard D. Leake '24

Mr. & Mrs. William F. Leary P
Robert E. Lee '80

Robert E. Lee IV ’49

The Leggett Foundation

 

Dr. Francis E. LeJeune Jr. F

Johnthan R. Lemon ’60

A. J. Lester Ill ’58

Ernest D. Levering '64

Earl N. Levitt F

Ms. Catharine W. Lewis P

Donald R. Lewis P

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Lewis F

Frances & Sydney Lewis '40, ’43L

Henry Darnell Lewis '81L

Mr. & Mrs. Harry V. Lewis Jr. P

James E. Lipscomb Ill '58

David H. Livingstone F

Mrs. Richard M. Lofton F

Arthur Loring '69

Mary and Daniel Loughran
Foundation, Inc.

S. Mark Lovell F

Ms. Lucille C. Lundy P

Tavenner C. Lupton Ill °75

William J. Luria ’28

James R. Lyle '48L

Lawrence F. Lyles '75

Edmund... Lynch Jr F

Mr. & Mrs. Gerard R. Lynch P

Jonathan S. Lynn 71, °75L

Mr. & Mrs. James A. McBride P

Clyde S. McCall Jr. '53

Adrian L. McCardell '29

Lawrence L. McCarthy ‘29

Ms. Catherine Terrell McCartney F

J. W. McClintock III 53

W. Lane McColl Ill ’84

Charles T. McCord ’63

Michael S. McCord ’65

Mr. & Mrs. Robert S. McCoy ur. P

Dr. & Mrs. T. W. McDonald P

Joseph H. McGee ’50, '52L

Clarence A. McGowan ur. F

Mr. & Mrs. Robert G. McGraw P

Dr. Donald G. McKaba ’'56

Herbert G. McKay ’51

James T. McKinistry '48

Miss Leila Laughlin McKnight F

Ms. Wanda McLeod F

Dr. F. C. McMains P

Donald T. McMillan °72, °75L

William H. McNair P

Mr. & Mrs. Carter V. McNeese F

Prof. Andrew W. McThenia Jr.
3S, G3L

R. F. MacCachran '43

John D. MacDonald F

Mr. & Mrs. Alvin A. Machonis P

John M. Madison Jr. 64

H. Stephen Madsen F

Bruce Y. Malmo F

J. Stephen Marks '59

Mr. & Mrs. William P. Maroney P

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas J. Marrie P

Mr. & Mrs. Gene A. Marsh ’81L

Marsh & McLennan, Inc.

Joseph R. Martin ’72

Lewe B. Martin '49, ‘51k

Robert C. Martin P

Paul M. Maslansky ’54

Mr. & Mrs. Charles H. Mason P

Prof. Toni Massaro F

John R. Matthews Jr. F

Dr. Roy T. Matthews '54

Harold E. Maurer P

Courtney R. Mauzy Jr. ’61

W. Peyton May F Estate

John D. Mayhew ’26

C. Parkhill Mays Jr. ’58

Allan J. Mead ’58

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Joseph Mendelsohn Ill ’52

Mr. & Mrs. Irvin C. Messner P

Mr. & Mrs. David L. Metz P

Midlothian Enterprises, Inc.

A. Stevens Miles Jr. ’51

Dr. Mike E. Miles '68

H. Thorp Minister Jr. °49

Mr. & Mrs. William E. Missert P

John G. Mitchell Jr. P

Roby D. Mize P

Joel W. Mohrmann ’77

W&L 39

Charles D. Mohrmann ‘79

Prof. Clark R. Mollenhoff F

Robert J. Moody ’49, '51L

Mrs. Theresa D. Moody P

Dr. Harold A. Moore P

Sam Moore Furniture

Mr. & Mrs. Robert C. Morbeck F

Lawrence E. Morhous '72L

Ms. Dorothy G. Morris F

Mrs. Stephen Morris F

Mr. & Mrs. Stewart Morris F

Johnny E. Morrison '74, '77L

Norwood O. Morrison '70

H. Taylor Morrissette P

Robert A. Mosbacher ’47, '49L

Kenneth D. Moxley '41 Estate

Mrs. M. J. Muller F

Dr. Robert L. Munt Jr. °73

Dean Dan N. Murphy ’°73

James E. Murphy P

Col. Paul J. B. Murphy Jr. ’49

Mr. & Mrs. James L. Nave P

Dr. Oakie G. Newsome P

Ms. Catherine Carr Nichols P

Shuford R. Nichols ’30

Harry M. Nielsen F

David G. Noble ’58

Ms. Mary P. Noble P

William A. Noell Jr. ’64

Ms. Betty J. Nord F

John C. Norman Jr. ’64

Philip W. Norwood ’69

George E. Nowack Jr. ’81L

Dr. William C. Ober ’70

Elliott M. Ogden Jr. P

E. Staman Ogilvie 71

W. B. Ogilvie Jr. ’64

David W. Ogilvy '67

Mr. & Mrs. Raymond S. Oliger P

John D. Owen Jr. F

C. William Pacy ’50

Stephen H. Paley '61

Foster McCrum Palmer '34

Mr. & Mrs. James A. Paone P

Russell Park ’82

Ruth Parmly F Estate

Mr. & Mrs. Buford L. Partee P

Donald H. Partington 61, ’64L

Mr. & Mrs. Raymond D. Patterson P

James H. Patton IV ’51

Matthew W. Paxton Jr. '49

Dr. Robert O. Paxton '54

Miss Elizabeth Ashley Payne F

Ms. Laura C. Payne P

Mr. & Mrs. Brad Pearsall P

Dr. & Mrs. Andrew A. Pecora P

Mrs. Alexandra N. Peirez P

Capt. & Mrs. Robert C. Peniston F

Rhodes L. Perdue P

Dr. Marvin B. Perry Jr. F

A. Winniett Peters P

Prof. James M. Phemister F

Ae wd. Philips dr. 72

Prof. J. Timothy Philipps F

James A. Philpott Jr. ‘69, ’72L

J. A. Philpott ‘45

Richard Corbin Pierson ’80

Thomas L. Pittman Jr. '68

Ms. JoAnn H. Platt P

Dr. Henry P. Porter Jr. '54

William C. Porth P

Mr. & Mrs. Walter B. Posey F

Mr. & Mrs. Louis P. Poulton P

William A. Powel Ill '83L

Dr. John W. Poynor '62

Townes G. Pressler P

T. Rowe Price Associates
Foundation, Inc.

Kenneth S. Purdie F Estate

Maurice E. Purnell Jr. '61

Dr. & Mrs. William W. Pusey Ill F

Lillian & Rupert Radford Trust

Mr. & Mrs. James C. Rae ur. P

Mrs. Frances C. Ranc F

William P. Raines P

Tom L. Rankin ’62

George W. Ray F

James H. Redford '76

400 W&L

 

Mr. & Mrs. Alfred A. Reed P

Mr. & Mrs. James R. Reichert P
Dr. & Mrs. Robert Reinhardt F
Mr. & Mrs. Harvey R. Reinstein P
Dr. Frank M. Rembert P

George J. Renner Jr. P

Ms. Melinda Willis Renuart P
Mrs. Margaret M. Richardson P
Ms. Mildred C. Richmond F
Stephen W. Rideout '65, ’68L
Kent Rigg ‘52, ’55L

Mr. & Mrs. George D. Riley Jr. P
Ms. Dianne G. Ringer ’80L

Mr. & Mrs. David I. Rippeon P
William R. Ritter Jr. ’55

Roanoke Electric Steel Corporation
Bruce H. Roberson ‘63

Mr. & Mrs. John Everett Roberts P
M. Paraker Roberts lil ’82
Robertshaw Controls

Charles H. Robertson ’50, '51L
Major E. B. Robertson Jr. ’67
Pat H. Robertson ’65

Mr. & Mrs. Gerald L. Robins P
E. B. Robinson Jr. P

Stephen W. Robinson ’72, '75L
Mr. & Mrs. Francis P. Rooney P
Ms. Helen M. Roser F

Mrs. John H. Roser F

Charles S. Rowe ’45, ’50L
Josiah P. Rowe ’48

Herb Rubenstein '74

James A. Russ '62

David E. Ryer ’51

Don M. Sallinger 61, ’64L
Lowell L. Sanders P

William Sapp P

Steven R. Saunders '68

Mrs. R. Terry Sawyer ur. F

Mr. & Mrs. G. J. Scannapieco P
Helene & Bert Schewel '41

John S. R. Schoenfeld '49

Mr. & Mrs. Frederic D. Schuh F
William J. Scott Jr. ’42

David A. Sensabaugh F

Mr. & Mrs. George F. Sensabaugh F
Mr. & Mrs. George F. Sensabaugh Jr. F
Mr. & Mrs. John S. Shannon P
Prof. Joan Shaughnessy F
William A. Shearer Jr. P

Gen. & Mrs. George R. E. Shell F
Martin R. Shelton P

Shenandoah Life Insurance Company
Eva K. Sheppard Charitable Lead Trust.
Ms. Edith M. Sheridan F

John Sherwin F

John M. Shuey Jr. '73

William A. Shutze F Estate
Donald W. Sigmund ’59

Leo J. Signaigo Jr. '43

Leroy H. Simkins Jr. '55

Arthur D. Simmons ’29

Mr. & Mrs. Carlton Simons P

Ms. Mary Gwynn Simpson F
Sam P. Simpson ’65

Michael E. Singer '84

John W. Sinwell '57

John M. Slack Ill P

Richard T. Sloan ’42

Stephen Sloan '54

Chester T. Smith Jr. ’53

Or, Ge Oe. LO I iP

Ms. Louise Tennent Smith P
Parker K. Smith Jr. ’53

William Burford Smith P

William H. Smith °15

Bayard J. Snyder '76L

L. Vernon Snyder '49

Dr. Jack Solomon P

William S. Solmson '64

David L. Spaulding '40

Lloyd E. Spear '79L

Leland Speed P

Thomas A. Speer '57

Dr. William H. Spencer-Strong '63
Daniel T. Stacey ’75L

Harry C. Stahel P

John H. Stansfield '44

 

George W. St. Clair 53

Martin E. Stein Jr. °74

Mr. & Mrs. Martin E. Stein P

Prof. Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. F

John M. Stemmons ’31

Prof. B. S. Stephenson '42

Mr. & Mrs. E. F. Stephenson Jr. P

Judge Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr.
4a AP

Warren L. Stern P

Guy T. Steuart Il ‘53

Prof. James W. H. Stewart ’52L

Robert L. Stone ‘62, ’65L

Mr. & Mrs. Robert L. Strickland P

V. T. Strickler Agency, Inc.

Peter R. Strohm ’68

Gene P. Stuart P

H. Webster Stull P

Samuel E. Stumpf Jr. F

Rudolph J. Stutzmann ‘55

Jesse Suber '80, ’83L

Mrs. Marcelline L. Sullivan P

Hatton W. Sumners Foundation

Michael L. Suthard F

Mrs. Marcia R. Sutton P

Mr. & Mrs. Samuel L. Svalina P

Robert N. Sweeney ’41

Dr. J. Brantley Sydnor '63

Dr. J. T. Sylvester '64

John C. Szcezecinski P

Dr. John E. Tartaglione P

Dr. G. Douglas Tatum Jr. P

Dr. & Mrs. Francis B. Teague Jr. P

Dr. Nelson S. Teague ’58

Tenneco, Inc.

David K. Tharp ’62, ’64L

Don O. Thayer Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. Robert L. Thedinger F

Clifford C. Thomas Jr. '50

Mrs. C. Reynolds Thompson Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. James R. Thompson P

Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. 63

Benton C. Tolley Ill °75L

Alan Tomlin '69

Charles B. Tomm ’68, '75L

C. C. Torbert Jr. P

J. Thomas Touchton '60

W. Bryan Trammell Jr. P

Charles R. Treadgold '49

The J. Edwin Treakle
Foundation, Inc.

Dr. David T. Trice '78

Mr. & Mrs. Louis A. Trosch P

Charles Tait Trussell ’49

Mr. & Mrs. Gary Tucker P

John H. Tucker Jr. '10 Estate

S. Maynard Turk ’52L

Thomas M. T. Turk ’84

Edward W. Turley Jr. P

Cdr. & Mrs. Warren D. Turner P

Richard H. Turrell ’49

Dr. & Mrs. Richard H. Unger P

United Daughters of the Confederacy

Ms. Anne Unverzagt F

Mr. & Mrs. W. Warren Upton P

U. S. Engineering Company

United Virginia Bank

John H. Van Amburgh P

William B. VanBuren III '44

Dr. & Mrs. Robert N. Van Son P

Judge Robert T. Vaughan '42, '44L

Joseph C. Vawter P

Virginia Power Company

Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges

Mr. & Mrs. Karl E. Vogt P

Kenneth H. Wacker '49

Mr. & Mrs. Frank W. Wagner P

Willard B. Wagner Ill ’70

Mr. & Mrs. Harold D. Walker F

Mr. & Mrs. Gene A. Wallace P

William A. Wallace '75

James H. Wallenstein '64

Mrs. Ruth Berg Walsh F

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. J. Foster Watkins P

Dr. William J. Watt F

Ms. Caroline Watts '75L

 

David K. Weaver '60
Mr. & Mrs. John W. Weaver P
Rev. Ercel F. Webb P

W. Temple Webber Jr..’53

H. Dunlap Weichsel ’57

The Hon. Paul H. Weinstein ’55
Mrs. Samuel M. Weinstein F
Richard E. Welch Jr. F

The Hon. Harry W. Wellford ’46
John A. Wells Ill ’82

W. Calvin Wells °17

Frank P. Wetherbee P

Mrs. Sally D. Whelden F

Dr. Joseph G. Whelan Jr. P
C. C. White P

J. Allen White P

Ms. Joanna K. White P

Robert A. White °72L

Dr. Robert S. White P

Mr. & Mrs. James W. Whitehead F
Russell W. Whitman P

Ms. Sarah K. Wiant ’78L
Judge H. E. Widener Jr. '53L
George B. Wilkinson '26 Estate
Ms. Victoria T. Willett P
Cranston Williams Jr. P

Harry K. Williams °83

J. Bowman Williams '75

Jesse F. Williams Ill 65

Lewis D. Williams '37

Ms. Martha H. Williamson F
Richmond Williamson ’51
Jeffrey Willis ’75L

Dr. John D. Wilson F

Ashley T. Wiltshire Jr. 63

J. Otis Winters P

Sherwood W. Wise ’32, ’34L
Mr. & Mrs. Louis E. Wiser Jr. P
Beverley H. Wood '74L
Evelyne Helm Wood F Estate
Ms. Karen Kraak Wood P
Edward G. Woodson Jr. '60
Raymond E. Wooldridge '60
Thomas K. Wotring '75L
Charles F. Wreaks III F

Ms. Henrietta Wright F
Thomas P. Wright '29

Douglas B. Wyatt '79

Richard M. Yankee Jr. ’49
Charles R. Yates Jr. ’70

John C. Yost '65

Edward S. Young F

Frank M. Young Ill ’63

Frank G. Young ’66

George M. Young '54

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Young Jr. P
Mrs. Catherine A. Zabriskie P
Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Zahn P
John M. Zamoiski '74

Ms. Floridene Zamorano P

Mr. & Mrs. Samuel Zavatsky P
Edwin A. Zelnicker Jr. ’43

Ms. Marian Zola P

6 Anonymous Gifts

Irrevocable Deferred Gifts
and Estate Plans

The following persons have either created an irrevocable
deferred gift on behalf of Washington and Lee or have in-
formed the Trustees that they have included the University in

their wills or estate plans.

Irrevocable deferred gifts are charitable arrangements
whereby income is retained for the lifetime of the donor
and/or his or her beneficiaries. An income tax deduction is
available at the time the deferred gift is created even though
the principal does not pass to Washington and Lee until the

death of the donor or beneficiaries.

Also included are planned gifts to Washington and Lee
which use life insurance as the financial arrangement.

C. Edmonds Allen ’32
Thomas H. Alphin ’36
Charles V. Amole ’29
Eugene M. Anderson, ur. ’52, '54L
Thomas D. Anderson '34L
Willis M. Anderson ’52L
Karldon Apgar P

Edmund H. Armentrout ’68
George S. Arnold '28L

W. D. Bain, Jr. '49L

Edgar A. Basse, Jr. ’39
John T. Bate ‘19

John T. Battle ’34

John W. Beaire '39L
Benjamin V. Blagg II ’47L
Calhoun Bond '43

James D. Bonebrake '54
Leonard C. Borland ’31
Harry Lee Bowman '36
David R. Braun ’76

Harry J. Breithaupt, Jr. '36
Irving B. Bricken ‘33

A. Compton Broders, Jr. '38
William J. Brooks, Jr. '33
Robert G. Brown ’49
George E. Burks ’27
William Burtner °17, '21L
Calvin T. Burton '25

C. Lynch Christian, Sr. '16
A. B. Claytor F

Henrietta B. Claytor F

A. Christian Compton ’50, '53L
Thomas A. Courtnay Ill ’51
John L. Crist, Jr. '45
Robert S. Curl ’47

Calvin H. Curry, Jr. '56
Dudley W. Denton ‘30
William W. Davis, Sr. ‘26.

|. Langston Donkle Ill °74
Ben R. Downing, Jr. P

Dr. & Mrs. W. Magruder Drake '36
M. Irvine Dunn, Jr. '23

E. Stewart Epley ‘49
Robert J. Fellows, Jr. '36
James D. Finley II ’35L
William B. Fitzgerald F |
Alvin T. Fleishman ’°41
James M. Franklin ’35
John P. Freeman '59
Julian S. Fulcher Ill °74
Fred O. Funkhouser '34
William B. Geise, Jr. '45

H. Mynders Glover '76
Horace Gooch, Jr. '31L
Robert B. Graham '73
George M. Grasty ’40
Howard Greenblatt '44
Eugene E. Griese, Jr. '46
Bernard Candler Grigsby II °72

 

John G. Guerrant '24
Roger J. Haller '28

John G. Hamilton '32
Waller C. Hardy, Jr. '39
Alexander M. Harman, Jr. '44L
Andrew H. Harriss, Jr. 24
Houston H. Harte '50
Lawrence P. Haynes '22, '25L
Edward O. Henderson ’25
John T. Herwick '36

Robert W. Hilton, Jr. ’38
Robert C. Hobson ’40, ’42L
Samuel B. Hollis °51

William B. Hoofstitler 36
Farris P. Hotchkiss ’58

C. Royce Hough Ill ’59
Woodson P. Houghton '15
Mr. & Mrs. James L. Howe, Jr. ‘18
William D. Hoyt, Jr. ’32
Mrs. William A. Hyman F
W. Gordon ller || ’51
Sidney Isenberg °42

Earl T. Jones ’30

V. C. Pat Jones ’30
Hannibal N. Joyce ’32L
Joseph J. Kaplan '28
Kenneth L. Keil ’30
Christoph Keller, Jr. °39
John G. Kennedy Ill ’83
Stephen K. Kent, Jr. ’60
Robert L. King '24

S L Kopald, Jr. '43

T. Kerr Laird ’33

Allie H. Lane '43, '47L
Stephen B. Lee ’37

~ William H. Leedy '49

William Revell Lewis Ill °73
Herbert B. Luria Ill °31

Mrs. E. Carlyle Lynch, Jr. F
G. Sage Lyons ’58, '60L
Harry Lyons '22

Lucile Emerson MacCorkle F
Thomas A. Malloy, Jr. '38
Mrs. Ross L. Malone F
Bertram B. Mantell ’35
Richard P. Marcus ’51
James Bland Martin ’31L
D. Carleton Mayes '47L
William MclIndoe, Jr. '44
Herbert G. McKay ’51L
Robert S. Mendelsohn ’50
Grace McPhail Mitchell F
Robert H. Moore, Jr. '44
Gus Morgan ’35

Edwin A. Morris '26
George C. Morris, Jr. '46
Mrs. Hilton W. Mount F

J. Peter G. Muhlenberg '50
John E. Neill 38

 

Milburn K. Noell, Jr. 51, '54L
William A. Noell 64

Neilson J. November ’45

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr. ’33, '35L
Gilmore N. Nunn ’31

Foster M. Palmer '34

Frank L. Paschall, Jr. ’43
Matthew W. Paxton, Sr. '18, ‘20L
Markham L. Peacock, Jr. '24
John T. Perry, Jr. ’41

Marvin B. Perry, Jr. F

H. Merrill Plaisted III °57
William B. Poff ’55L

Herbert Pollack °25

Lewis F. Powell, Jr. °29, '31L
Benjamin L. Rawlins ’30L
Robert R. Reid, Jr. '49
Dewey A. Reynolds ’22

Anne H. Roberts F

Robert W. Root ’42

Charles S. Rowe ’45, ’50L

lra H. Samelson ’33

William W. Schaefer ’60

Elliot Schewel ’45

L. Roper Shamhart ’47

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. '39
Howard T. Shepherd ’40
Margaret Shepherd F

Xen N. Sideris ’52 _

 

Richard T. Sloan '42

LN. Smith; Je "S7; 60.
John C. B. Smith, Jr. ’67
Roger M. Soth °44

Jerry G. South '54, ’56L
Jeffrey B. Spence ’71

Mr. & Mrs. A. Erskine Sproul 37
Harold E. Sturgill '55
Charles A. Sweet '36
Charles E. Swope ‘59L
Robert Lee Telford '22
Calvert Thomas '38, '40L
John Newton Thomas '24
Roland E. Thompson ’52
J. Thomas Touchton’60
Norfleet R. Turner ‘51
Clinton Van Vliet ’41, ’47L
W. Emory Waters '68
Stanley D. Waxberg ‘31
Harry W. Wellford '46
William C. Wilburg ’37
Lewis D. Williams, Jr. '37
Carroll B. Wiltshire 13
Sherwood W. Wise, Jr. '63
William E. Woodroof '52
Raymond E. Wooldridge ’60
James H. Woosley ’42
Ellis N. Zuckerman '49

phe Anonymous

 

Estate Distributions

Estate distributions received during the 1984-85 year
reached a total of $2,985,724. Estates in administration of
which we have been notified but from which there have been

no distributions are not included.

Frank H. Brady '32
Kathleen T. Carter F
George L. Cowan Ill '48L
Gary H. Dobbs III ’70
Frank B. Hayne ‘15
Henry H. Hecht Jr. '59
John F. Hendon '24
Samuel S. Laws F

 

W. Peyton May F

Kenneth D. Moxley '41, '47L
Ruth Parmly F

Kenneth S. Purdie F

William A. Shutze F

John H. Tucker '10

George B. Wilkinson '26
Evelyne Helm Wood F

 

Gifts in Kind

Many generous gifts are made to Washington and Lee in
ways Other than cash and securities. Listed here are the names
of those who contributed Gifts in Kind for the 1984-85 year.

Mrs. Marion Carson

Mrs. Jane Cavanaugh

Mr. & Mrs. Bruce Dewing

Mrs. Richard France

Mrs. David Freudenthal

Ms. Ann Genge

Mr. & Mrs. John G. Hamilton ’32
Frank B. Hayne Estate ‘15

Mrs. Anne McCorkle Knox

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas C. Lee Jr.

 

Joseph Matthews

Herbert McKay ‘51

Mr. & Mrs. Edwin A. Morris '26
Mr. & Mrs. Elliott M. Ogden Jr.
James N. Overton '75

Mrs. Leon Sensabaugh

John Shanks

Welby A. Smith —

Mr. & Mrs. Byron Swift

Mrs. William Watson

W&L 41

1985/86 Annual Fund

Chairman:
James W. Jennings Jr. ’65, ’72L

Vice Chairmen:
J. Hardin Marion ’55, ’58L
Conway H. Sheild Ill 64, ’67L
Milton T. Herndon ’56L
James A. Philpott Jr. ’69, ’72L

Class Agents:

Academic *1951: James F. Gallivan 1979: C. Stephen Jones 1958: Robert E. Stroud
1952: George E. Eagle 1980: P. Craig Cornett 1959: Richard H. Horn
1915: Rupert N. Latture 1953: Hayes C. McClerkin Jr. *1981: Christopher Gammon 1960: Thomas B. Branch III
1916: Edwin B. Shultz 1954: Walter E. Smith 1982: S. Braxton Puryear *1961: Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
1917: William J. Cox 1955: Raymond D. Smith Jr. 1983: Bennett L. Ross 1962: Raymond R. Robrecht J:
1921: Samuel L. Raines “1956: J. Richard O’Connell 1984: John M. Cleghorn 1963: Paul H. Boswell
1925: Earle T. Andrews 1957: Sam Bendheim III 1985: J. Matthew Anthony 1964: Thomas W. Budd
1926: Thomas T. Moore 1958: Malcolm A. Clinger Jr. *Reunion Classes 1965: Frederick A. Casto
1929: T. Graham Gibson 1959: Richard F. Cummins “1966: Walter E. Cox
1930: Herbert G. Jahncke 1960: Malcolm Lassman Law 1967: Joseph D. Logan Ill
1933: Charles J. Longacre *1961: William M. Bowen 1968: A. Alling Jones
1934: Scott Mosovich 1962: Mason T. New 1933: Franklin R. Bigham 1969: David D. Redmond
1935: Peyton B. Winfree Jr. 1963: D. Randolph Cole Jr. 1934: Sherwood W. Wise 1970: Edward B. Crosland Jr.
*1936: George W. Harrison 1964: William M. Schildt 1935: Thomas E. Sparks *1971: Robin P. Hartman
1937: Richard K. Stuart 1965: Jack H. DeJarnette *1936: William L. Martin 1972: John A. Wolf
1938: David N. Walker “1966: Michael E. Lawrence 1939: Thomas A. Williams Jr. 1973: John C. Moore
1939: Victor F. Radcliffe 1967: John S. Graham Ill 1941: H. Tyndall Dickinson 1974: Stephen G. Elkins
1940: Ross V. Hersey 1968: Buddy Atkins 1942: Clifford L. Walters 1975: Thomas K. Wotring
*1941: Alvin T. Fleishman 1969: John F. Carrere Jr. 1948: Carter R. Allen *1976: Stephen D. Rosenthal
1942: Leon J. Warms 1970: Williard B. Wagner Ill 1949: J. Randolph Larrick 1977: Stephen |. Greenhalgh
1943: Albert D. Darby Jr. *1971: Joseph B. Tompkins Jr. 1950: Rufus B. Hailey 1978: Derek Swope
1944: George T. Wood 1972: John W. Robinson IV *1951: Ernest M. Holdaway 1979: John F. Murphy
1945: E. Dean Finney 1973: Hatton C. V. Smith 1952: James C. Reed 1980: John J. Eklund
*1946: M. Pressley Mead 1974: Douglas C. Chase 1953: Robert L. Banse *1981: David G. Weaver
1947: Warren G. Merrin 1975: Robert A. Keatley 1954: Donald R. Klenk 1982: Robert M. Couch
1948: William W. Burton *1976: John A. Cocklereece Jr. 1955: Richard W. Hudgins 1983: Matthew L. Kimball
1949: H. Thorp Minister Jr. 1977: Joseph L. Carrere *1956: Reno S. Harp Ill 1984: Peter W. Leberman
1950: Frank Love Jr. 1978: George F. Griffin IV 1957: Overton P. Pollard 1985: John Sicilian
“Reunion Classes

42

W&L

 

 

 

 

The W&L Gazette

Mrs. Holton, Ogilvie Elected Trustees

ashington and Lee University has
announced the election of two new
members to its Board of Trustees.

Virginia Rogers Holton of McLean,
Va., and W. Buckner Ogilvie of
Houston, Texas, were elected to six-year
terms on the Board, effective January 1,
1986.

The elections came during the fall
meeting of the Trustees held on the cam-
pus October 25-26.

Mrs. Holton is a native of Roanoke
who received her bachelor’s degree from
Wellesley College. She attended the
School of Language at Middlebury Col-
lege and the Latin American Secretarial
School in New York City.

She worked for the State Department
at the American Embassy in Brussels for
two years and later served as an in-
telligence analyst for the Central In-
telligence Agency.

In 1953, she married Linwood
Holton, a 1944 Washington and Lee
graduate and former Roanoke lawyer
who was governor of Virginia from 1970
through 1974.

During her years as Virginia’s First
Lady, Mrs. Holton was involved in the
Right to Read program sponsored by the
Department of Health, Education and
Welfare. In 1974 she was appointed to
the steering committee of the first Gover-
nor’s Conference on Reading. She also
initiated and chaired the statewide Gover-
nor’s Conference on the Family Food
Dollar.

From 1974 to 1982 she was a member
of the University of Virginia’s board of
visitors, chairing the board’s academic af-
fairs committee. She is vice chairman of
the Conserve Virginia Campaign of the
Nature Conservancy and is on the board
of directors of the Virginia Environmen-
tal Endowment. She is also a member of
the board of the University of Virginia
Medical School Fund.

Mrs. Holton has a keen interest in the
fine arts and has been a member of the
Northern Virginia Panel of the Virginia
Commission for the Arts. She has recent-

 

Virginia Rogers Holton

ly been president and chairman of the
board of the McLean Orchestra.

The Holtons are the parents of four
children and currently live in McLean.

Ogilvie, a 1964 graduate of
Washington and Lee, was elected to the
trusteeship by a vote of the Washington
and Lee alumni. He is executive vice
president of Excalibur Computer Systems
Inc. He holds a master of science degree
from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

At Washington and Lee, he was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national leadership
fraternity. He was also co-captain of the
varsity football team and active in the
student government.

Ogilvie has served as a member of
Washington and Lee’s Alumni Board of
Directors and has been vice chairman of
the Annual Fund. He has been president
of the Houston Chapter of the W&L
alumni and chairman of the Houston
Honor Scholarship Committee.

Active in community affairs, Ogilvie
has served as a vestryman at St. Martin’s
Episcopal Church, president of the
Frostwood Elementary PTA and the
Forest Club, vice chairman of the
Houston United Fund, and director of
Kastle Security Systems. He also founded

 

W. Buckner Ogilvie

the Houston Rugby Club.
Ogilvie and his wife, Jacquelin Bland
Ogilvie, have four children.

Edward C. Atwood, dean of
Washington and Lee’s School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics the past
16 years, will step down from that post
next June.

After a leave of absence during the
1986-87 academic year, Atwood will
return to the University to resume .
teaching in the department of economics.

A search committee has been formed
to choose Atwood’s successor. That com-
mittee is headed by Louis W. Hodges,
professor of religion.

In accepting Atwood’s resignation,
W&L President John D. Wilson said that
Atwood’s years as dean ‘‘have been
eventful and fruitful ones and have earn-
ed him the deepest gratitude of the
University family.’’

‘*It will be impossible to find a suc-
cessor to match his faithful and caring
service to the students and faculty of the
School and of the larger University,”’
Wilson said. ‘‘His administrative col-
leagues will also miss his droll commen-
tary on the passing scene even as they

W&L 43

 

will miss his insightful judgment and the
richness of his academic experience. His
decision to resign the deanship is more
easily accepted because we can count
upon his return to our full-time service in
September of 1987.”’

Prior to becoming dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics,
Atwood served as dean of students at
W&L. He taught economics at W&L
from 1952 until 1960 when he left to join
the General Electric Company’s staff of
economists in New York. He returned to
W&L in 1962 as dean of students and
professor of economics.

Williams replaces Simpson
as associate dean

H. Thomas Williams Jr., associate
professor of physics at Washington and
Lee, has been named associate dean of
the College (of arts and sciences), effec-
tive July 1, 1986.

Williams succeeds Pamela H. Simp-
son, who is returning to full-time
teaching at the end of the current
academic year. Simpson has held the
deanship since 1981.

Williams’ appointment is for a three-
year term. He will maintain his position
in the physics department and will teach
on a limited basis while he serves as
assistant dean.

Williams joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1974 and is the author of
numerous articles on nuclear physics. In
the past, he has received research grant
support from the National Science Foun-
dation, the Virginia Foundation for
Humanities and Public Policy, and the
Cottrell College Science Grant program.

Simpson, a professor of art history,
joined the faculty in 1973. She was nam-
ed assistant dean in 1981 and promoted
to associate dean in 1983. During 1984-85
Simpson chaired the University’s
Coeducation Steering Committee.

Professors, students team up
to publish papers

Two teams of Washington and Lee
students and professors have combined to
publish articles in scholarly journals—one
in astronomy and the other in law.

Ronald L. Reese, associate professor
of physics, and C. Reade Williams, a
senior politics major from Roanoke,
published an article entitled ‘‘An
Astronomer’s Poet: Alfred, Lord Ten-
nyson’’ in the November 1985 issue of

44. W&L

Griffith Observer, a national astronomy
journal.

In their article, Reese and Williams
examine Tennyson’s poetry and how he
used astronomy extensively in his works.
Reese and Williams also note Tennyson’s
use of universal themes and astrological
imagery and the similarities to poet John
Milton’s development of the same
themes.

Roger Groot, professor of law, and
Tom Thagard, a junior European history
major from Montgomery, Ala., have
teamed up to write an article forthcoming
in the January 1986 issue of The Virginia
Bar Association Journal. The article is
entitled ‘‘Immunized Witnesses in
Virginia’ and deals with an obscure
Virginia statute first written in 1793.

Groot and Thagard argue that the ar-
chaic terms of the statute—once
understood—do not allow immunity to
be granted in exchange for testimony that

could convict others. The authors say the
statute forbids the admission of witnesses
who have been granted such ‘‘pocket
immunity.’’

The two articles serve to illustrate the
way in which W&L professors continue
to involve undergraduates in research
projects and provide them the opportuni-
ty to publish.

Moreover, in the case of the Groot-
Thagard team, the article represents an
instance of a cooperative venture between
the law and undergraduate schools.

Groot credited W&L history professor
Taylor Sanders with contacting him
about Thagard’s interest in a related
field. Said Groot: ‘‘This never would
have happened on a larger campus. The
faculty members’ familiarity with each
other’s work and with the interests and
abilities of students made this project
possible.”’

 

Bartering

Washington and Lee economics pro-
fessor Bruce Herrick has added new
meaning to the adage ‘‘You reap what
you sow.’’

In a lecture to his introductory
economics class in October, Herrick was
discussing the advantages of using money
in contemporary society instead of the
barter system.

“I told the students that under the
barter system, if I needed a tooth filled,
I would have to find a dentist who was
willing to do the work in exchange for a
lecture in economics,’’ said Herrick. ‘‘Or,
if I were hungry, I would have to find a
farmer to exchange potatoes for a
lecture.”

Unbeknownst to Herrick, he had
planted a seed that would grow into a
bountiful harvest.

Two class meetings later, Herrick had
completed a lecture to the same group
when the bell rang to end the period. As
the students filed past the professor, they
pulled from their book bags various
vegetables and produce items. Herrick’s
desk soon became a cornucopia of
squash, leeks, celery, bread, potatoes,
and other items.

Slightly dumbfounded, Herrick
gathered his goods and retired to his of-
fice, which began to take on the ap-
pearance of a late-season produce stand.

In later conversations with students in
his class, Herrick recalled that during the

 

 

Herrick and veggies

Depression it was not uncommon for
students to pay their bills with goods
rather than cash, a situation that would
create a logistical nightmare for even the
most conscientious university treasurer.

Was the produce prank planned?
“Only in that there are 11 students in the
class, and I received 11 distinctly different
items of food,’’ Herrick said.

‘‘Something like this has never hap-
pened to me before,’’ he added, gazing
at the fruits (and vegetables) of his labors
scattered across his desk. No doubt, Her-
rick is secretly thankful that his salary
isn’t paid in soybeans.

 

 

E. Stewart Epley, ’49, Washington
and Lee’s treasurer since 1980, has an-
nounced his intention to retire next sum-
mer. |

Epley’s retirement was announced by
W&L President John D. Wilson who
said: ‘‘Stewart Epley’s management of
the financial affairs of the University has
been exemplary. The Trustees and I have
had total confidence in the skill and in-
tegrity with which he has conducted his
vitally important duties.’’

Wilson announced plans to review the
current alignment of responsibilities now
entrusted to the position of treasurer and
to involve Trustees in the search for
Epley’s successor.

A native of Great Falls, Mont., Epley
joined the University’s development staff
in 1977 before becoming treasurer three
years later.

He had previously been associated
with several major management and con-
sulting firms, including McKinsey &
Company and Price Waterhouse & Com-
pany. He came to W&L from a post as
chief analyst for the New York State
Dormitory Authority.

A three-member subcommittee of the
Board of Trustees that was appointed in
May to study the University’s investment
policy with regard to South Africa
presented an interim report at the
Board’s fall meeting and will continue its
study.

A statement issued after the meeting
read, in part: ‘‘During the summer, this
subcommittee became familiar with cur-
rent issues and recent actions taken by
some universities and other investors. On
Thursday, Oct. 24, members of this sub-
committee, President John D. Wilson,
and Rector James M. Ballengee met with
the representatives of the W&L Cam-
paign Against Apartheid to learn of their
views and recommendations on this ques-
tion. The subcommittee felt that this
meeting was very informative and
instructive.

**An interim report, outlining the
results of this meeting and discussions
with the University’s investment advisors
and other institutions, was made to the
Board of Trustees on Saturday, Oct. 26.
The subcommittee’s study will continue,
and it is expected that.a proposal will be
considered by the Board at its February
meeting.”’

The Bookshelf

W&L Ranked Among Best Buys in Colleges

(New York Times Books)

Washington and Lee is one of 221
colleges and universities from across the
country featured in The Best Buys in
College Education, a new volume by New
York Times education editors Edward B.
Fiske and Joseph M. Michalak. |

At the outset of the new volume,
Fiske and Michalak acknowledge that
‘‘there is no end to daunting statistics on
the soaring cost of a college education.’’

But, they add, ‘‘[t]he good news is
that, despite the general inability of col-
leges to keep their tuition levels in line
with the rate of inflation, there are still
plenty of colleges around that can be
described as relative ‘bargains.’ ’’ The
book then profiles the 221 bargains the
editors identified among the nation’s
2,000 four-year institutions.

Washington and Lee’s profile, written
on the basis of data gathered from both
University officials and students who fill-
ed out questionnaires, notes: ‘‘The cost
of a Washington and Lee education is at
the higher end of a bargain, but the
outstanding nature of the academic pro-
gram ranks it with colleges that usually
cost half again as much.’’

Among the specific plusses that Best
Buys cites are the Honor System and the
accessibility of faculty: ‘‘The honor code
is taken seriously at W&L—‘It shows the
influence of Robert E. Lee!’—and exams
are unproctored, doors left unlocked, and
the library open twenty-four hours a day,
seven days a week. The faculty members
are committed. ‘Their doors are always
Open to you, and you can call them at
home for help.’ ”’

The editors mention the W&L social
life, the ‘‘excellent’’ meals in Evans Din-
ing Hall, active intercollegiate and in-
tramural programs, and the University’s
setting in the Shenandoah Valley as assets
that contribute to the quality of a
Washington and Lee education.

The entry concludes: ‘‘[F]or an educa-
tion that is both distinctive and
distinguished, Washington and Lee is one
of the best.”’

Guidebook to the Natural Bridge and
Natural Bridge Caverns
(Poorhouse Mountain Studio)

The book is both a guide to two of
Rockbridge County’s greatest natural at-
tractions and an educational tool for in-
dividuals interested in geology. Spencer
provides a guided tour of the bridge and
caverns, outlining a number of stops
along the way where visitors can enjoy
views of particular interest.

Various photographs and sketches il-
lustrate the sections on the geological
history of the area and the formation of
the natural bridge and caverns.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1957 and head of the
geology department since 1959, Spencer is
the author of six textbooks. He received
his bachelor’s degree from Washington
and Lee and his Ph.D. in geology from
Columbia University.

Jose Diaz Fernandez y la otra generacion
del 27 (Jose Diaz Fernandez and the
Other Generation of 1927)

Editorial Pliegos of Madrid

Boetsch’s book, written in Spanish,
studies Jose Diaz Fernandez in the con-
text of Spain in the 1920s and focuses on
two of Fernandez’s novels—E/ Blocao
(The Blockhouse) and La Venus
Mecanica (The Mechanical Venus).

Boetsch’s book also demonstrates how
Fernandez was able to treat social themes
without abandoning the aesthetic values
of the Spanish avant garde.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1976, Boetsch received his
bachelor’s degree from Washington and
Lee. He earned both the master’s and the
doctorate from Middlebury College,
where he served as assistant director of
Middlebury’s graduate program in
Madrid.

W&L 45

Alumni News

 

Alumni Fraternity Council Created to Strengthen Ties

 

A new organization has recently been
formed at Washington and Lee to create
a stronger link between alumni and
undergraduate fraternity members.

The Alumni Fraternity Council of-
ficially came into existence during
Homecoming weekend when it drew up a
formal charter. The council held its first
organizational meeting in July.

The council is composed of alumni
representatives of the 17 national frater-
nities that have chapters at Washington
and Lee. Paul J. B. Murphy Jr., ’49,
who has been elected president of the
organization, explains that the group’s
‘overall objective is to provide alumni
participation in a renaissance movement
of the fraternity system at Washington
and Lee. We hope that this can be done
by encouraging more active participation
of alumni in chapter activities and by ad-
dressing and proposing solutions to any
system-wide problems.”’

Such interaction between the council
and the undergraduates will, Murphy
believes, bring about ‘‘a re-dedication to
the basic principles and goals of frater-
nities and increased support of
Washington and Lee’s traditional values
of honor and gentlemanly conduct.’’

Plans for the establishment of an
alumni fraternity organization were first
formulated in February 1984, Murphy
says. At that time, representatives of na-
tional fraternities volunteered to sponsor
a meeting to help promote improvements
in the W&L fraternity system. Such a
meeting was held in the summer of 1985,
at which time the Alumni Fraternity
Council was born.

The formation of the group has been
greeted with enthusiasm from the rest of
the University community. ‘‘The response
of the administration has been outstand-
ing,’’ says Murphy. ‘‘The president and
the dean of students voiced unqualified
support for alumni participation in
fraternity affairs. In addition, the Alumni
Association has been very supportive of
the effort.’’ Murphy, incidentally, was
recently appointed to fill an unexpired
term on the board of directors of the
W&L Alumni Association.

46 W&L

Undergraduates have joined the ad-
ministration in welcoming the new
organization. During Homecoming
weekend, Murphy met with Jamie Hayne,
°86, president of the Interfraternity
Council. ‘‘Jamie expressed the IFC’s
eagerness to work with the Alumni
Fraternity Council,’’ said Murphy.

During its organizational meeting in
July, the council established four goals
for its first year of existence. The first of
those, the enactment of a charter, has
already been achieved. The other three
objectives are to publish a handbook for
fraternity house corporations, to develop
a plan for the long-term renovation of
the fraternities’ physical plants, and to
complete planning for a symposium on
fraternities in the fall of 1986.

Chapter Activities

Tallahassee. The inaugural meeting of a
new Tallahassee Chapter was a steak
cookout held in August at the farm of
Duby Ausley, ’*59, a member of the
Alumni Board. Don Bryant, ’76, was in-
strumental in organizing the first
gathering.

 

Pensacola. C. Miner Harrell, ’71, presi-
dent of the Pensacola Chapter, and his
wife, Jeannie, were hosts for a cocktail
buffet in August when two Pensacola
area freshmen, Carol Couch and Scott
Trimble, were welcomed into the Univer-
sity family.

Puget Sound. Members of the new
chapter rode a ferry to Whidbey Island in
August and enjoyed a picnic at the home
of Ray (52L) and Phyllis Haman.
Northwest Louisiana. The annual August
outing was held at Wilson’s Bistineau Inn
near Shreveport.

New Orleans. A rejuvenated New Orleans
chapter enjoyed an active summer and
fall. The activities started with a recep-
tion in June featuring Farris Hotchkiss,
director of development and university
relations at W&L. About 100 alumni,
students, and spouses participated in the
event at which 12 entering freshmen from
the New Orleans area were guests. Later
in the summer R. Parke Ellis, ’81, cap-
tained a W&L team that defeated the
local Harvard alumni on the softball
field. In late October the local committee
of the Alumni-Admissions Program,
under the leadership of chairman John R.

 

Sarpy, ’72, held a reception for prospec-
tive students at the home of Martin D.
Claiborne, ’72. W&L Associate Admis-
sions Director Van Pate was in
attendance.

Shenandoah. The chapter held a recep-
tion and picnic for members of the enter-
ing class in late August at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. J. Randolph Larrick, ’49L,
outside Winchester, Va.
Augusta-Rockingham. The chapter’s an-
nual picnic was held at the farm of Rick
Chittum, ’69, chapter president. W&L
President John D. Wilson attended along
with John Lewis, ’86, president of the
Executive Committee and a native of
nearby Greenville.

Appalachian. Members of the Ap-
palachian Chapter enjoyed a weekend
outing in September that included an
evening at the Barter Theatre in Ab-
ingdon, Va. It was followed the next day
by a business meeting and a luncheon at
the Martha Washington Inn before the
group traveled to nearby Emory, Va., to
watch the Generals’ football team open
its season against Emory and Henry Col-
lege. Although the football outcome was
not what the W&L partisans had hoped
for (a 30-0 loss), the weekend concluded
on an upbeat note with a post-game
reception. Jim Elliott, ’67L, was elected
president of the chapter.

San Francisco. Washington and Lee Ad-
missions Director Bill Hartog joined the
San Francisco Chapter for a reception in
September during Hartog’s fall recruiting
visit to the West Coast.

Winston-Salem. The Winston-Salem
Chapter held its third annual barbecue in
Tanglewood Park in September. The
group heard Milburn K. Noell, ’51,
associate director of development at
W&L, discuss the University’s scholarship
needs.

Richmond. Pamela H. Simpson, associate
dean of the College, was the featured
speaker at a buffet luncheon in mid-
October. Dean Simpson, who chaired the
University’s Coeducation Steering Com-
mittee, presented a report on the early
stages of coeducation, complete with
slides taken during the first four weeks of
the academic year.

Roanoke. Anne C. P. Schroer, who join-
ed the University this fall as associate
dean of students, provided a report on
her initial impressions of W&L and the
transition to coeducation at a luncheon
meeting in late October. Jody Ringland,
°87, a freshman dorm counselor, also
provided her views of the transition. The
new chapter officers are Scott Farrar,

 

 

    

é

TALLAHASSEE—Sally and Don Bryant, ’76, put their guests in a festive mood for the in-
augural meeting of the Tallahassee Chapter.

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM— “‘Cy”’ Painter (left), ’33, and his son, Simon, ’62, enjoyed the
Augusta-Rockingham’s annual picnic.

   

 

PENSACOLA —Jeannie and Miner Harrell, ’71, caught a typographical error on the invitation
sent to members of the Pensacola Chapter and made certain that guests at the chapter’s meeting
knew whom to blame for the transgression.

W&L 47

°76, president; Bill Wallace, ’74, vice
president; and A. B. Boxley, ’80,
secretary-treasurer.

San Diego. Members of the San Diego
Chapter joined alumni from other
Virginia colleges for the fifth annual San
Diego ‘‘Old Dominion Day’’ Reunion in
mid-October.

Oklahoma City. The Oklahoma City
Chapter members were invited to par-
ticipate in the third annual Old Dominion
Cocktail Party hosted by the University
of Virginia’s Oklahoma City chapter in
October.

Two Florida alumni chapters—
Jacksonville and Florida West Coast—
had special programs on the financial,
tax and estate aspects of deferred
(income-retained) or estate-planned gifts
at separate meetings in September.

Farris Hotchkiss, director of develop-
ment and university relations, was joined
by Bill Washburn and Milburn Noell,
associate directors of development, in
presenting the program on the tax and
financial advantages of making the de-
ferred (as opposed to outright) gifts.

The Florida West Coast Chapter held
two meetings on the subject, one at the
University Club in Tampa and the other
at the St. Petersburg Yacht Club, while
the Jacksonville Chapter met at the River
Club.

Washington and Lee will hold its an-
nual spring reunions on May 8, 9, and 10
in 1986.

The weekend events begin May 8 with
a keynote address in Lee Chapel. During
the three days, alumni participate in a
variety of activities, including parties and
banquets for their reunion class.

Classes holding their reunions this
year will be 1931, 1936, 1941, 1946, 1951,
1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1976, and 1981.

Information on the program and ac-
commodations for the weekend will be
forthcoming from the Alumni Office.

The 79th annual Fancy Dress Ball has
been scheduled for Friday, March 7,
1986, in Warner Center. Alumni are in-
vited to attend.

For information, contact the Student
Activities Board, University Center,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

48 W&L

 

APPALACHIAN—From left, Alumni Board member Howard Capito, ’68; Phil McFarlane, ’71,;
Mike Riley, ’72; Howard Packett, ’58; and Pam McFarlane cheered W&L’s football team at
Emory and Henry.

ae Fees ea
i Te

ROANOKE—From left, Biil Wallace, ’74; Linda Farrar; Scott Farrar, ’76; Singleton Garrett,
mother of W&L freshman Laura Carty; and Ab Boxley, ’80.

 

iiss

 

 

NEW ORLEANS—The New Orleans Chapter’s softball team: front row from left, Charlie Van
Horn, ’81; Julian Good, ’78; Parke Ellis, ’81; John Embree, ’75; John Hastings, ’81; Chip
Hunter, ’73; John Carrere, 69; John Walsh, ’83; second row from left, Mike Forrester, °89;
Cove Geary, ’80; Ashley Gray, 89; Ann Geary, ’89; Benji Eastwood, ’29; Madison Woodward,
81; Del Agnew, ’82; Tom Pritchard, ’84; John Pleasant, 60; Tim White, ’75; Bill Beacham,
°74.

 

Alumni President’s Report

Cadaver Gift to Alumni House, Plaque for Medal of Honor Winner
by William N. Clements, ’50

ellow Alumni:

Your Alumni Board met October 10 and 11 during the
Homecoming weekend. Here is your report of that meeting:

The University has received a generous gift pledge of
$50,000 from the Cadaver Society to be used specifically for
upgrading the Alumni House. Nothing is more timely or need-
ed. The first $10,000 of the gift will be used to dress up the
downstairs area of the Alumni House. No building on the
campus gets more traffic or use from alumni. The gift is very
much appreciated. Thanks, Cadaver, whoever you are.

The Alumni Board forwarded a resolution to the Board of
Trustees requesting that a plaque be placed in Lee Chapel in
memory of James Howard Monroe, Class of 1966, who was
killed in action in Vietnam and was posthumously awarded the
Congressional Medal of Honor. Our research indicates that
Jim Monroe is the only Washington and Lee alumnus who has
received the nation’s highest military honor. (If we have
overlooked a previous Medal of Honor winner, we hope that
someone will advise us so that all appropriate names can be
included on the plaque.) At their meeting later in October, the
Trustees approved our resolution. The plaque will be installed
in May during the 20th reunion activities of the Class of
1966— Jim Monroe’s class.

The Alumni Board now numbers 19 members and will be
increased to 20 members in 1986. There are two basic. commit-
tees of the Board: University Programs, which is concerned
with internal matters of the University, and Alumni Programs,
which deals with the external area of alumni activities.

The University Programs Committee concerns itself with
such matters as admissions, fraternities, the coeducation tran-
sition, athletics; and the Annual Fund. These areas are
covered through reports to the committee from members of
the University’s faculty and administration.

Briefly, the admissions office reported that applications are
still increasing over last year’s record totals; the coeducation
transition is progressing smoothly; athletics will be discussed
more fully in the May meeting of the Alumni Board; and the
early stages of the 1985-86 Annual Fund was discussed in
detail by James Jennings, ’65, ’72L, who is chairman of the
Annual Fund and also a member of the Alumni Board.

The University Programs Committee focused primarily on
the issue of fraternities and specifically the newly formed
Alumni Fraternity Council under the leadership of Paul Mur-
phy, ’49, who is also a member of the Alumni Board. The
formation of this new council is reported in detail on page 46
of this issue of the Alumni Magazine. The Alumni Fraternity
Council hopes to have in place as soon as possible Alumni
House Committees in each fraternity that will oversee the
operations of the fraternities. In some cases, as in the case of
Sigma Nu for instance, the Alumni House Committee can ac-
tually lease the building from the University and sublet it to
the chapter. To improve the physical appearance of the frater-
nity houses, the Alumni House Committees will be the vehicle
for raising the needed funds for repairs from fraternity alumni
and will be responsible for the proper use of those funds.

William N. Clements,
President
Alumni Association

 

The Alumni Programs Committee discussed chapter ac-
tivities, Kathekon (our student alumni group), homecomings
and reunions, alumni travel programs, and career assistance.

Kathekon, organized a year ago by associate alumni direc-
tor Buddy Atkins, ’68, has become one of the finest organiza-
tions on the campus. Kathekon members are involved in all
phases of the University’s life—from freshman orientation to
phonathons for the Annual Fund to dedicated work in the
Alumni Office. This group of students represents the current
campus leaders who will be our alumni leaders once they
graduate.

The Alumni Programs Committee is working to prepare a
Model Chapter Program and a handbook for chapter
presidents in hopes of unifying our activities across the coun-
try as well as strengthening our individual chapter member-
ship. You should know that we now have a total of 81 alumni
chapters—almost double the 41 chapters that we had in 1966.

The Alumni Board thinks that the staff of the Alumni Of-
fice is doing an excellent job in the homecoming and reunion
programs and in making alumni travel programs available.

The Alumni Programs Committee is currently working on
plans to help improve the career planning and assistance pro-
gram for undergraduates through coordinating the efforts of
the University Office of Career Development and the Alumni
Office. We hope in the future to be able to involve alumni on
a more formal basis in the career development area. We think
that this plan should be carried into the chapters themselves
and will thereby provide further incentive for young men and
women to consider Washington and Lee.

It was my duty as president of the Alumni Board to report
the proceedings of our October meeting to the Board of
Trustees. That report was made to the Trustees on October
26.

Finally, from one who has the good fortune (and a good
reason) to have to return to Washington and Lee often, let me
assure you that the coeducation transition is going smoothly.
Students, faculty, and all members of the administration are
upbeat. The University remains the same simply because our
truly new freshmen are just as interested in the traditions and
uniqueness of Washington and Lee as we ever were.

W&L 49

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

| with cherry arms

7

 

 

 

 

Stanley Barrows, long-time professor at the Par-
sons School of Design and just recently retired as
chairman of the Interior Design department at the
Fashion Institute of Technology in New York Ci-
ty, was the subject of a flattering profile feature
in the April issue of Avenue magazine. Barrows
is credited with influencing many of the major
talents in the modern decorating field. He has been
named an honorary lifetime fellow of the
American Society of Interior Designers.

After 41 years with the Maryland Casualty Co.,
Harry T. Moreland retired in 1978 as a vice presi-
dent. Moreland is active as a volunteer in the
United Way of Central Maryland campaign. He
and his wife, Mary, now spend their summers in
Baltimore and their winters in Florida.

J. Oliver Gluyas has retired a second time and
moved from Princeton, N.J., to Brevard, N.C. He
still works on a part-time basis in San Francisco.

A. Ward Archer, chairman of Ward Archer &
Associates of Memphis, Tenn., announces that his
firm has been selected to handle the trade adver-
tising business for several new accounts. Those ac-
counts include American Innerspring Manufac-
turers, Oak Hall Clothiers, and U.S. Emulsifier.

George C. Graff has retired as senior project
engineer of Continental Telephone Corp. after 40
years in the telecommunications industry. He now
lives in Gainesville, Va.

Sydney Lewis has been named chairman of the
board of trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, a bureau of the Smithsonian
Institution in Washington, D.C. Lewis, the second
chairman in the museum’s history, has been a
trustee of the museum since 1976 and vice chair-
man of its board since 1979. In his new post, he
succeeds U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan.
Lewis is co-founder and former chairman of Best
Products Inc. of Richmond.

John J. Dangler has retired after 31 years as a sales
representative for IBM. He has moved from his
Atlanta home to Daytona Beach, Fla.

Wilbur S. (Bill) Metcalf Jr. has retired and mov-
ed to Salem, S.C., in the Blue Ridge mountains.

Hugh G. Ashcraft Jr. retired Feb. 1 after spend-
ing the last 12 years as president and then chair-
man of Harris-Teeter Supermarkets. He was
granted an extra year beyond retirement in order
to assist in a post-merger consolidation which
enlarged the chain of stores to 127 in four states.
Ashcraft resides in Charlotte, N.C.

Lupton Avery has retired from the Chattanooga
Glass Co. He lives in Chattanooga, Tenn.

Le Compte K. Davis and his wife, Jane, attended
W&L’s Alumni College Abroad in England Aug.
6-22, 1985. The Davises live in Maryland.

Samuel R. Ames is chairman of the board of IN-
SCO Group Inc. of Norfolk, Va. Ames lives in
Virginia Beach.

Lawrence J. Fisher Jr. is vice president and general
manager of the textile division of Wellman In-
dustries Inc. in Johnsville, S.C. Two of his sons
have graduated from W&L.

Donald E. Garretson retired on May 1 from the
3-M Corporation. He will, however, continue to
represent the company in community and national
affairs. He lives in St. Paul, Minn., where he
formerly served as chairman of the board of
Macalester College.

John E. Zombro Jr. retired in March 1983 after
37 years with Sunkist Growers. He lives in Palos
Verdes Peninsula, Calif.

After two years as dean of Northwest Queens,
N.Y., L. Roper Shamhart has been appointed as
archdeacon of Queens, representing the bishop to
30 parishes with oversight of three missions. His
new responsibilities have forced him to resign as
chairman of the Commission on Liturgy and
Church Music after four years of service. In June
Shamhart will celebrate his 25th anniversary as rec-
tor of St. Mark’s Church in Jackson Heights, N.Y.

Joseph E. Blackburn recently received the
Presbyterian Home Alumni Association’s Outstan-
ding Alumni Award. He retired in the spring as
chief executive officer of the Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Co. of Virginia and now prac-
tices law in Richmond.

Wilbur S. Metcalf Jr. (See 1940.)

James A. Anderson III is practicing law with the
firm of Lewis, Anderson & Gilmore in Benton, Ky.

Leigh Carter, vice chairman and director of B.F.
Goodrich Co., has been named a director of
Sherwin-Williams Co. He lives in Cleveland.

Thomas S. Hook retired from the Federal Avia-
tion Administration on Jan. 3, 1985, after 24 years
of federal service. He still enjoys tennis and play-
ing the trombone and is now writing in his leisure
time at his new home in Baltimore, Md.

John I. Carper has retired from the Norfolk
Ledger-Star in order to pursue free-lance writing,
golf, and travel. Thus far, his travels have taken
him to the Los Angeles Olympics and throughout
the South and Southwest.

J. Peter G. Muhlenberg is chairman of the depart-
ment of pediatrics at Reading (Pa.) Hospital and
is on that hospital’s board of directors. He lives
in Wyomissing, Pa.

Marion G. (Pat) Robertson has been the subject
of major articles in Newsweek, The Wall Street
Journal, and the Washington Post concerning his
possible candidacy in 1988 for president of the
United States.

Andrew J. Ellis Jr. has become a fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers. The college
is an association whose purpose is to improve the
standards and ethics of trial practice. Ellis is a part-
ner in the firm of Mays, Valentine, Davenport &
Moore in Richmond, Va.

Guy B. Hammond has returned to full-time
teaching after six years as chairman of the
philosophy and religion department and two years
as chairman of the newly formed religion depart-
ment at Virginia Tech. Hammond lives in
Blacksburg, Va.

Townsend Oast has been elected president of the

Virginia Bankers Association. Oast is currently
president of People’s Bank of Chesapeake and
resides in Portsmouth, Va.

James A. Anderson III (See 1949.)

Hugh C. Newton was honored this summer when
his company received a Silver Anvil Award in the
category of public affairs—not-for-profit
organizations from the Public Relations Society
of America. Hugh C. Newton & Associates, a
public relations firm in Alexandria, Va., won the
award for a media campaign publicizing a report
written by the Heritage Foundation of
Washington, D.C., that sought to influence the
policies of the Reagan administration. Because of
the extensive publicity, policymakers paid atten-
tion to the report and adopted many of its
proposals.

In September 1984, Samuel K. Patton returned
from Brussels to Poughkeepsie, N.Y. In Brussels,
he had been a senior staff member at the IBM In-
ternational Education Center. He is now a senior
engineer at IBM’s Data Systems Division lab in
Poughkeepsie, where he is a member of that ci-
ty’s library board and Republican committee.

Andrew J. Ellis Jr. (See 1951.)

Dr. Thomas J. Kenny has been appointed to a pro-
fessorship at the University of Maryland Medical
School. His daughter Alison spent her junior year
of college in England and returned to Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College this fall. His daughter
Elizabeth has completed her first year at Trinity
College (Conn.). The Kennys live in Ruxton, Md.

Newton H. Ray is serving as a horticulture lecturer
to various civic and garden organizations. He is
working as a landscape design consultant for his
son’s garden firm in Danville, Va.

Dr. Charles E. Dobbs is currently practicing
hematology and oncology in Louisville, Ky.

Keith Rogers, vice president of the U.S. Tobacco
Co., has taken early retirement in order to con-
duct research for a volume on the influence of the
consumer movement on American politics. Rogers
lives in Greenwich, Conn.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Bernard Schaaf Jr. and
Madeleine Carignan on Aug. 24, 1985, in
Lafayette, Ind. Schaaf practices urology and
urologic surgery in Lafayette. Madeleine is a native
of Montreal who previously worked in New York.

James M. Boswell recently enrolled his son, James
Jr., in Washington and Lee’s freshman class. The
Boswells live in Little Rock, Ark.

Townsend Oast (See 1951.)

After a brief period as an international consultant,
James J. Crawford Jr. has accepted a position with
Sun Exploration and Production Co. He and his
wife will be moving from their home in Denver
to Khartoum, Sudan, for an upcoming exploratory
drilling operation.

Leonard C. Greenebaum is managing partner of
Sachs, Greenebaum & Tayler in Washington, D.C.
The firm specializes in referrals from other law
firms and is one of Washington’s leading firms in
domestic cases.

W&L 5i

   

 

 

 

 

ee aan aa ee a

 

. for ‘American ‘businesses:

. Rear Wachovia i in] nent is mn
en in 1 1974.

 

 

g I 1 ulin was recently transferred from.
No: < to the United States and is now
senior r project a associate in the project managem

 

department of Exxon Engineering in Florham :

Park, N.J. He lives in Chatham, N. J.

John P. Moyer has been with the Youngstown, :

 

Ohio, office of the Philad elphia-based Butches &
Singer Inc. for the past 19 years. He is active in
the Rotary Club and. the cher ® Scouts. |

 

Sadler ‘Hollins "59, ‘have built a home. on
Maryland’s eastern shore near the town of Oxford.

His firm, Human Resource Associates, is involv-

 

1 © Sadlers’ third

‘Stephen W. Rutledge has moved from Dallas to B
St. Louis, where he i 1s employed by the Ralston ¢

 

Purina Co. OO

  
   
  
   

Renshaw Il i is executive producer for Cor.
porate Video a in Washington, D.C.

   

 
 

g im : financial services. -

 

-ason, Alan

-and— conducts

; f+ the fe prac

a mgs Snes A cMahon, BIRTH

ecame a senior or vice

r a T. Kenneth Cribb J

 

- BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Lineback, a
_ daughter, Sally Casey, i Feb. 2, 1985, ‘in _Mem-

 

Lockhart, ¢ on April 26, 1985, in DA
ington, Va.
Edward B. Crosland Jr. has joined the firm of
Baker & Hostetler i in its Washington, D.C., of-
fice. He will practice in the areas of financial i in-
stitutions and corporate @ and securities law.

 

 

 

   
 
  

has been nai ned executive: vice
rOSS and Blue mee of

       
   
 
 
  
     
 
 

 
 

7 ment Fraud. | He i is the author of numerous articles
on federal securities laws. |

     

IRR IAGE:

Alexander S. oe and Susan

 

 

ine’s Sept. Dis issue e featured

 

 

Palmer Brown Cos., a Bethesda, Md. -based adver-

_ tising agency. As president of the agency, Brown

has led the firm to $100 million in billings in 1985

and plans to double that growth i in the next five
years.

| William Cc. Tyler and Ch: harles R. Yates, °70, have
formed Tyler/Yates Financial Group Inc. in Atlan-.

ta. The company will offer aiversiiied real. estate

Jr. ” for merly assistant cou

 

   

L | Jacksonville, Fla. .

3 Mr. and Mrs. John L. _ Smith hdr, a son,
_ Clarke McIntyre, on May 27, 185, 1 in a Neroll
- Va. 7
Advertising Age magazi
Jeremy E. Brown in its cover story. The article —
‘concerned the phenomenal growth of the Earle |

‘Rehoboth E

yunselor ‘manager ‘of, ‘the Wooden

to the president, is now counselor to the attorney
general of the United States.

John M. Nolan became the 41st postmaster of New

 
  
  
  

York in January 1985. He is the youngest person
ever to hold that position as head of the largest-

  
 
  
 

volume post office system in the wor d, with 115

branches in Manhattan and the
employees, and $950 million in gross. receipts in
1984. Nolan joined the Postal Service in 1970 and
served most recently as northeast 8 onal direc-
tor of customer services. ee

 

 

Michael T. Thornton i is a t ariner i in ‘the newly

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William A. Gatlin MI, 8 a
son, Douglas Stuart H, on ae - pee

 

    

Klaus Eder is a lecturer at the University of

Duessel-Dorf. He has received a Heisenberg grant

from the German Research Foundation. Eder
si les i in 1 Munich, West Germany. —

    
   

 

| sea 6 of Pediatrics a ata recent |
AAP) E Exccutive t Bc oard, . Allender i is

“Holt O’Far-

Williams 3 & Palmore i in ihe spring of 1985,

-E Henry J ernigan Jr. has relocated to the firm’s

on, Ky., office. Corporate defense con-
tinues to be the primary focus of his practice.

 

   

 

Marc J. Small has announced the formation of a
law partnership, Melton and Small, | in Roanoke,
Va. .

H. Lockhart t Handley 1 i I (See 1966. 6)

 
       

Armstrong Barratt Iv, on “Dec. 21, |
each, Del. Cullen is a sales as

with Jack Lingo Ine. 4 a ‘teal esta ate firm

Rehoboth Beach. SS

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Fr. Haley
adopted a daughter, Meegan Anne, born Aug. 5,
1985. "Haley is an = in aie |

   

 

 

   

Boat ‘Show ‘for ae S

D

 

Newport (R.I.) Yachting Center since its inception
in 1981. Dwelley lives in Westport, Mass.

James S. Mahan III and John S. Penn are
members of an investment group which recently
purchased the Citizen’s Union National Bank and
Trust Co. in Lexington, Ky. Citizen’s Union is
Lexington’s third largest bank with assets of $255
million and capital of $20 million. Mahan, former-
ly with Wachovia Bank and Trust, joined Citizen’s
Union in 1983 and will be its new president. Penn,
who joined the bank in 1984, will be executive vice
president, administration. Both Mahan and Penn
are on the board of directors of KYNB Bankshares
Inc., with Mahan serving as the board’s chairman.

John A. Steinhauer has given up his public ac-
counting practice to become the senior syndica-
tion manager for Public Storage Inc. He packages
real estate tax shelters for the firm. Steinhauer is
a director of the National Association of Private
Placement Syndicators, a trade group, and serves
as chairman of its political advisory committee.
He lives in Pasadena, Calif.

Walter J. Wilkins III has been appointed assistant
professor of history and philosophy at Virginia
Wesleyan College in Virginia Beach, Va. He
previously had been at Florida State University,
where he earned his Ph.D.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Russell W. Chambliss, a
son, Frank Mason, on April 5, 1985, in Bir-
mingham, Ala. Chambliss is vice president of sales
and marketing for Mason Corp. of Birmingham.

B. Troy Ferguson III has joined the staff of North
Carolina National Bank as a commercial loan of-
ficer in the Salisbury, N.C., office. Ferguson
received his M.B.A. from New York University
in 1982.

Mark W. Preston has become an associate with
the firm of Strother, Weiner & Dwyer in Atlanta,
Ga.

Stuart Ragland III has entered the graduate pro-
gram in economics at the University of Maryland
College Park. He and his wife, Lisa, now live in
the Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C.

B. Michael Herman (See 1967.)

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Preston R. Simpson, a
daughter, Mary Carolyn, on Feb. 22, 1985, in
Beaumont, Texas. Simpson is in the private prac-
tice of pathology in Beaumont.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. Kim Stenson, a daughter,
Leslie Elin, on March 12, 1985, in Warminster, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William H. Sturges, a
daughter, Lindsey Hathaway, on Aug. 23, 1985,
in Charlotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William W. Terry III, a
son, William Marfleet, on Sept. 5, 1985, in
Roanoke, Va. Terry is a partner in the law firm
of Wetherington & Melchionna.

Curtis E. Boswell Jr. has been named assistant
general counsel for Schneider Commercial Real
Estate, a statewide firm in California. He earned
his law degree at Texas Tech and is a member of
the Texas and California bar associations. Boswell
is in the Los Angeles headquarters of Schneider.

Dr. Paul L. Gorsuch recently passed the written
neurological specialty boards in Pennsylvania. An
avid mountain climber, Gorsuch recently com-
pleted a successful climb of Mt. McKinley in
Alaska.

On Jan. 1, 1985, Ralph F. MacDonald III became
a partner in the Birmingham, Ala., law firm of
Balch and Bingham.

Irvin E. Wolfson is a sales manager for Com-
munications Inc. He is based in Grand Rapids,
Mich.

W. Henry Jernigan Jr. (See 1972.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David R. Braun, a
daughter, Katherine Anne, on Oct. 12, 1985, in
Edina, Minn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Brian M. Levine, a son,
Aaron, on June 28, 1985, in Spartanburg, S.C.

Walter S. Robertson III, vice president of the Rich-
mond insurance agency DeJarnette and Paul Inc.,
has been elected president of the Independent In-
surance Agents of Richmond for the 1985-86 term.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Brian L. Garr, a daughter,
Tyler Leigh, on June 26, 1984, in Bethesda, Md.

Ronald R. Adams has announced the formation
of a new corporation for the practice of law under
the name of Adams, Howe & Zoss in Des Moines,
Iowa. Adams was formerly with the firm of Myers,
Knox & Hart.

T. Patrick Brennan is currently curator of the
Oglebay Museum in Wheeling, W.Va. Brennan,
who was a student curator of Lee Chapel while
an undergraduate, is working on a master’s degree
at West Virginia University.

G. Scott Thomas has left the Virginia News Net-
work in Richmond to become a news anchor for
WEBR-AM Radio in Buffalo, N.Y.

Berthenia S. Crocker was the subject of a feature
story last spring in the Wyoming State Journal.
Crocker, who began a private practice in Lander,
Wyo., five years ago, juggles an active civic life
successfully while raising three young children:
Genya, 5; Rosie, 4; and Nicholas, 1.

Michael T. Thornton (See 1970.)

MARRIAGE: Lowell R. Buckner III and Amy
Elizabeth Morrett, on Nov. 10, 1984, in Dallas.
Buckner is assistant employee relations manager
in design products of the films division of the
Mobil Chemical Co., in Rochester, N.Y., where
the couple resides.

MARRIAGE: Kevin T. McFadden and Ilene C.
Andersen on July 6, 1985, in Marin County, Calif.
Groomsmen included Tom McFadden, Jr., ’76,
°79L, Mike McFadden, ’82, Tom McFadden,
*79L, and Tommy Tift, ’78. Attending the wed-
ding were classmates Steve Calabro, John Gula,
Tom Turco, and Ed Turtak; Joe Litosky, ’80; Tim
White, ’83; Brad Kidd, ’73; Paul Hendry, ’80; Pete
Pearl, ’78; and John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L. The
couple lives in Mar Vista, Calif. McFadden is a
commercial construction loan officer in the Real
Estate Industries Division at Lloyds Bank in Los
Angeles.

 

Although B. Davis Jackson has not played
baseball on a regular basis since his Little
League days, the 1976 Washington and Lee
graduate was credited with an assist that helped
end major league baseball’s brief strike this
summer. 7

Jackson’s assist
came in the form of
some advice that he of-
fered Commissioner
Peter Ueberroth.

According to a
report published in the
San Antonio Express- ©
News, Jackson wrote a —
letter to Ueberroth on
July 18 and proposed
that
the ‘‘untapped sources of baseball, particularly
unused seating capacity and new broadcasting
contracts,’’ be used to resolve the dispute be-
tween owners and the Major League Players
Association.

Jackson, a Houston native who has his own
accounting firm in New Braunfels, Texas,
viewed his suggestion as ‘‘an unsolicited letter-
to-the-editor type of thing. I never expected it
to receive such top-level attention.”’

But the letter did indeed receive
attention—from the top. On Aug. 1, Jackson
got a telephone call from the commissioner’s
office, thanking him for his suggestions.
Jackson was one of three individuals who were

 

 

Alumnus Earns Assist in Baseball Settlement

contacted by Ueberroth’s office after they had
written the commissioner with proposals for
settling the dispute.

Jackson’s proposals not only caught Ueber-
roth’s eye, but also captured the attention of
the media. He received calls from both The
CBS Morning News and NBC’s Today show.
And, the San Antonio newspaper account
noted, the Jackson’s family dinner was
repeatedly interrupted by reporters from
newspapers, television news teams, and na-
tional wire services on the day Ueberroth’s of-
fice called. a

Exactly what was it about Jackson’s pro-
posals that he was thrust into the limelight? He
believed the key to resolving the problems be-
tween the players and the owners involved us-
ing broadcasting contracts to improve atten-
dance at games. ‘‘They go hand-in-hand,’’ he
said. ‘‘If the owners cut ticket prices and the
players take a fixed percentage of broadcasting
revenue, it would serve everyone.

“*The idea has been lingering in my mind,”’
Jackson explained. ‘‘So I decided to write the
letter... . I am delighted that the commis-
sioner’s office called me.’’

Although Jackson has never before sent
such a letter to a top-ranking sports official,
it is not the first time he has shared his exten-
sive baseball knowledge with the world. His
book, The Last Word in Baseball Statistics, is
a compilation of nearly every statistic available
from the 1984 baseball season.

 

 

W&L 53

 

 

 

 

| BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John A.
Alexander Jr., on June 24

 

 

country sales manag
United States Lines. He and his wife, Susan, and
_ their new son live in ‘Taipei, Republic of China.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Dan A. Kniffen, a son,

Chase Tyler, on Jan. ‘1, 1985, in Richmond. Knif

 

 

   

 

_ fen is supervisor of family counseling with Catholic

Charities of Richmond, Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William M. Moffet, a so son,
Christopher Morris, on Dec. 4, 1984. The family
lives in Abingdon, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Scott A. Storey, a son,
- Matthew Kyle, on June 25, 1985, in Lansing,
Mich. Storey is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the law firm of Foster, Swift, ‘Collins &
~Coey in Lansing. :

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Tracy A. White, a son,

 

 

 

Charles Bernard, on ESSPE 23, AM; in Atlanta.

‘When John S.

 

LeCato were married i in J ria Franktown, va, .

two of his classmates travelled some distance to
attend the wedding. Keith B. Romi me fron
Harker Heights, Texas, and O. ‘Lee Cave came

: from eis tie ‘Ky. Their names were in-

 

 

    

   

  
 

A lumi Magazine.

i

Reserve. Umbarger is saa pursuing a master’s
_ degree in urban planning at the Univ
- Virginia. He lives i in Aclington,

     

= stockbroker with |
options. | -

. BIRTH: - Mr. and in A

 

 
  

 

 

vestn ment Co. in  Wathington E D. Cc.
| g left private practice, he lives i in Alexan-
‘dria, Va. with his wife, Carrie, and son, John
Robert TY. He on ithe alumni board of Pot

 
 

ae +o oe
Shield dof Soul
Ss hate general counsel,

 

1985, in Hong Kong.
Craig was recently promoted to the position of ©
er for Taiwan by his company, ©

Michael R. Tester ma partn:
eutsch, Kerrigan & Stiles in New |

After star nk
Thomas R. Wall IV moved to Kelso & Compan
in the summer of 1983. Kelso & Company i is an
‘investment banking firm which specializes i
_ leveraged buy-out tra
tore City.

| is working for Thomas
“‘mander of tl the 309th Medic: Group, U. Ss. Army |

ersity of

rs. Michael R. Devine, ason, 3 De
| Matiliew Baines on peter 15, 1985, in Virginia
h, Va. Dev and

| ty of Michigan. ; MB

‘John J. Stathakis receiv ed
| from ‘the Cumberland ‘ need of. Law in Bir-

I wvestern Virginia, Gardner formerly

 

David A. Greer is an associate with Hofheimer,
“Nusbaum, McPhaul & Brenner in Norfolk, Va.

Ss. Dewey Kressler Jr. is in the London office of
Putnam International Advisors, Ltd. He and his

_ wife, Anne, will be in London for two years.

James E. Mendoza has been promoted to mé ager
of educational marketing for the computer systems
division of Harris Corporation. He also manages
the Harris Corporate University Grant Program.

This program n annually grants over $7 million
worth of computer hardware and software to
academic institutions throughout the United
States. Mendoza lives in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

   

n has been named a p:

 
 

 

in the firm of De
Orleans, La.

 

; ting his career - with Chemical Bar

 

 

isactions. Wall lives: in New

 

 

Southern California ology att "School versity ry of
= Calif. | :

 

  

York.

 
 
 
  

| his law w degree i in May

 

Law Week 85, ‘named the nation’s best by the

wrote and directed a
vid leo on the law school, which was

 

 

promotional

named the nation’s best student bar associati
project by the ABA; and editec

  

newspaper. Stathakis is an associate ni the law

firm of povierys He ood and ie aaa iA ‘Ander-

son, S.C.

 

"MARRIAGE: Paul M. Black and Anna Barbara
(Bobbie) Serrano on Aug. 17, 1985, in Richmond,
ao Va. Stuart R.W. ‘Scruggs, "83,

 

and James qT. An-

year student at Bowinan : Gra r

| degree prog)

 
   

MARRIAGE: W. Warr

drews, ’83, were members of the wedding party.
Black is a recent graduate of the University of
Richmond’s T.C. Williams School of Law and is

 

a law clerk for the Hon. BI ckw I N. Shelley,

United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern

irginia. Black and his wife, who is a
1983 graduate of Sweet Briar College, live in
Richmond. oe
MARRIAGE: David A. Core and ¢
Williams on Aug. 17, 1985, in T.

 

   
 
 
 
 

ia Michele
asse, Fla.

 

Sean T. Broderick and John T. Warmath II

and Shepard M. Smith, ’84, se as attendants,

 

University School of Law. After a hon
Spain the couple will live in Bonn, West G
where Core will attend Bonn Pmiyersity as a

 

Rotary Foundation Scholar.

  

;eorge U. Carneal III is a first-year law student
at the University of Virginia. In May he completed
a master’s degree program with honors at Yale
University. Carneal combined three areas of
study—psychology, sociology, and religion-
worked part-time as a counselor in a r¢
treatment f inN n
disturbed teenagers.

F. Brian Gibson received a fellows nip to conduct
summer research at the Bowman Gray School of
Medicine at Wake Forest nic Factor as He wil

 
 
  

 

   

to “Local Skin Flap Surv vi ival.”

    
   
 
 
  
  
 

id, 1 Na athaniel Ww.
n Sept. 27, 1985,
aboard the King —

   
  

ing the Colgate
im ministration at the

 
  

University of Virginia, -

 

Lee Woosley III is enrolled i in the master’s
am at the Thunderbird Campus of the
American Graduate Schogl of International
Management.

 

MARRIAGE: Mark R. Carduner and Linda M.
Morton on July 20, 1985, in Charlottesville, Va.
They live in Hightstown, N. J . where he works for
Carduners Inc. |

MARRIAGE: John Hq.

 

 

 

 

Chase on June 229, Hare | ae H. = Ir., °83,

was an usher. Feuerstein has" just completed his

M.B.A. and will be joining the New York office
of f Touche, F Ross and i an ny. The couple will

 

 

nent or Pitsbureh haem Bank.

on B. Rhett and Ellen

 

 

MacElvain on May 4, 1985, in Eufaula, Ala. Rhett
is with the investment firm of Sterne, Agee and
Leach Inc. The couple lives in Mountain Brook,
Ala.

Stephen H. Denny is sales manager of Corton
Systems Corp., an electronics and computer firm
based in Japan. He currently lives in Tokyo.

After working for two years in the Bamberger’s
division of R.H. Macy and Co. Inc., Frank G.
English IV is pursuing an M.B.A. at the Fuqua
School of Business at Duke University.

2nd Lt. Todd W. Meyer completed the U.S. Ar-
my field artillery officer basic course at Fort Sill,
Okla.

Cecily L. Morris has been appointed town attorney
of Massena, N.Y. She is with the firm of Nican-
dri and LaVigne.

William M. Peery is enrolled in the graduate
geology program at the University of Montana in
Missoula.

Christopher B. Power attends West Virginia
University and will complete his M.B.A. in
_ December and his J.D. in May of 1986.

G. Kenneth Robinson III is a tax specialist in the
Washington office of Arthur Young and Co. He
is studying for a master of science degree in taxa-
tion at Georgetown University. Robinson lives in
Arlington.

John P. Walsh Jr. is currently employed as a
geological assistant with C&R Exploration Inc. of
New Orleans. He is also working toward a master’s
degree at the University of New Orleans.

MARRIAGE: Andrew E. Clark and Gail Minnix
on Oct. 19, 1985, in Vinton, Va. They live in
Catonsville, Md., where both are employed in the
Baltimore office of Peat, Marwick & Mitchell.

2nd Lt. Jed L. Goad earned his wings as a
helicopter pilot at the U.S. Army Aviation School
at Fort Rucker, Ala.

David K. Salsbury works at the Arena Stage in
Washington. He lives in Vienna, Va.

John A. Sanders is a sales representative with
Cahill & Associates Insurance Brokers in Ken-
sington, Md.

Dolores M. Schmitt is an assistant vice president

with L.S. Waldrop Realty Co. in Salem, Va. She
lives in Roanoke.

Stuart D. Adams is attending law school at the
University of San Diego.

2nd Lt. John D. Buchanan has been assigned for
duty at Fort Rucker, Ala. He is a student with the
U.S. Army Aviation Center.

Kathy B. Meadows has joined the law firm of
Klinedinst & Meiser in San Diego, Calif.

William H. Schoeffler is a management associate
for Barnett Bank in Tampa, Fla.

In Memoriam

Dr. Frank Laird Wysor, a retired physician, died
July 4, 1985, in Clifton Forge, Va. He was an
otolaryngologist who earned his medical degree
from the University of Virginia in 1915. Wysor
served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps during
World War I. He retired in 1966 as head of the
eye, ear, nose, and throat department of the C&O
Hospital Association.

Donald David Utt, a self-employed realtor, died
July 26, 1985, in Martinsburg, W.Va. After
graduating from Washington and Lee, Utt was
engaged in government service and eventually
became involved in real estate in the Cumberland,
Md., area. He was a member of Centre Street
United Methodist Church and the Scottish Rite
Bodies of Cumberland. For 60 years he was a
member of Fort Cumberland Lodge 211, AF and
AM.

James Levesque Shaver died Aug. 1, 1985, in
Wynne, Ark., where he had practiced law since
1922. When he was only 19 years old he earned
his law degree from Washington and Lee. Because
of his age, his license was granted by a special act
of the Arkansas legislature after he had passed the
bar exam. Shaver served in the Arkansas House
of Representatives from 1925 to 1930 and in the
state Senate from 1931 to 1938. He was lieutenant
governor of Arkansas from 1942 to 1946. He was
president of the Arkansas Bar Association in
1953-54 and was honored by the association as its
outstanding lawyer and citizen in 1971. Shaver
chaired the board of the Cross County Hospital
from 1951 to 1977. President Nixon appointed him
to the Arkansas State Advisory Committee to the
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. Shaver was an
elder in the Wynne Presbyterian Church and a
member of the Rotary Club and Chamber of Com-
merce. He also served on a number of state com-
missions and boards.

Albert Newman Jr., a retired consultant for the
Homelite Division of Textron Industries, died
Aug. 15, 1985, in Stratford, Conn. He earned a
bachelor of science degree in 1925 from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his
master of science degree a year later. Newman was
an engineer with Electric Specialty Co. of Stam-
ford, Conn., from 1926 until 1942 when he join-
ed Homelite Corp. He progressed from project
engineer to chief engineer and then vice president
in charge of engineering prior to his retirement.

John Howard Emrich, manager of the Tyronza
Supply Co., died June 28, 1985, in Tyronza, Ark.

Clarence Emmett Hinkle, a retired attorney, died
Sept. 13, 1985, in Roswell, N.M. He practiced law
in Roswell until his retirement in 1978. Hinkle serv-
ed in the New Mexico House of Representatives
from 1931 to 1933. During his term, he drafted
the Artesian Conservancy District Act, the first
water-conservancy district act concerning
underground water ever passed in the United
States. A landmark piece of legislation in the

western part of the country, it has been upheld by
the Supreme Court and only slightly amended.
Hinkle also served in the state Senate from 1945
to 1948. He was a member of the Roswell
Municipal Board of Education from 1935 until
1952, when he resigned to accept an appointment
to the board of regents of New Mexico Military
Institute. He presided over that board until 1958
and also was an organizer of the NMMI Founda-
tion Inc., which he chaired from 1945 to 1975. In
1969 Hinkle organized and chaired the board of
Roswell Retirement Services Inc., formed to adver-
tise his native city as a retirement center. He also
served from 1965 to 1970 on the Advisory Coun-
cil of the Public Land Law Review Commission
and chaired the Public Lands Committee of the
New Mexico Oil and Gas Association for more
than 20 years. Hinkle was a director of several
banks and savings and loan and bank holding com-
panies; president of Hinkle Investment Co.; and
senior partner of his law firm, Hinkle, Cox, Eaton,
Coffield and Hensley. He was author of the New
Mexico Oil and Gas Leasing Act and contributed
to federal laws on the same subject. He was ac-
tive in the Masons and Elks.

Calhoun Holcomb, a retired employee of Ford
Motor Co., died March 28, 1985, in Mount Ida,
Ark.

Charles Johnson Allison Jr., retired vice president
of Equitable Securities, died Sept. 5, 1985, in Bir-
mingham, Ala. He was an employee of J. C. Brad-
ford and Co. and a past member of the board of
governors of the National Association of Securities
Dealers. Allison was a member of the Birmingham
Rotary Club and a board member of the Country
Club of Birmingham and the Mountain Brook
Club.

Gilbert David Mayor, a retired division engineer
for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, died
March 22, 1985, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Zed Clarke Layson, a farmer and retired district
supervisor for the U. S. Dept. of Agriculture
Tobacco Marketing and Inspection, died March
13, 1985, in Millersburg, Ky. He was a director
of the Paris, Ky., Stockyards and the Farmers Ex-
change Bank, an elder of the First Presbyterian
Church, and past president of the Rotary Club and
the Stoner Creek Country Club.

Charles Watkins Lewis, counsel to the Wall Street
law firm of Thacher, Proffitt and Wood, died
Sept. 4, 1985, in Fairfield, Conn. Lewis, a V.M.I.
graduate, attended the Washington and Lee School
of Law while he was an assistant professor at
V.M.I. and earned his law degree at Yale. He was
managing partner of his law firm before becom-
ing counsel in 1977. Lewis was a president of the
board of Brick Presbyterian Church in New York
and a trustee of the Cancer Research Institute Inc.
and the V.M.I. Foundation Inc. He was a member
of the V.M.I. Board of Visitors and a director of
the General American Oil Co. of Texas. Lewis was
a member of the American, New York State, and
New York City bar associations, as well as a
number of clubs in New York, Connecticut, and
Florida.

Henry Stoneham Raleston Wilson, a printer, died
Aug. 22, 1985, in Martinsburg, W.Va. Wilson was
born in Rockbridge County. After leaving
Washington and Lee, he moved to Martinsburg
and worked as a pressman at Martinsburg Print-

WS, 55

 

 

 

 

 

 

died July 30, 1985, in Troy, C Ohio. He fe serve 10

a

 

TOY y Board of E F
was a member of the Upper alley Joint Voca-
tional School Board and chairman of the United
Fund and American Red Cross. He was a direc-
tor and general counsel for Miami Citizens Na-
tional | Bank and Trust oe and former rt Benera

 

r Lott, | . retired “attorney
de je Commission, died eo a

 

of. the Kiwanis, \ Vv. F. W., “American Toa mn
First Presby terjan Chureh.

 

 

 

 

13-sti ate rea. fa — = 1970. ‘Lott — in
the U. JS. Army Judge Advocate General’s ‘Corps
in ig pleas canon aa ie 2 to hago: oe emzined3 in

 

 

  
 

     

aa

 

| ty ‘of Vienna, and the Ne University of F Got

 

The Rev. Colin Campbell Jr, former p pastor of
St. Mark’s Episcopal Church in Palo Alto, Calif.,
died fsept. | 10, 18. >. Campbell © Renewed a year ago

ndency. He
I aa Divint

dent a corks : = es is
California and a member of the Sa
ty Alcoholism Advisory Board.

    
 

  
   

d as an officer in the United St

 

     
      
 
 

EDITOR: | ae ee
| read with disbelief the e article in the Ju u-
~ly/August 1985 issue of t the ae i eaeaene en-
titled 1 “New L Drug an lic’ Dortic

  

 

 

     
   
 
 

© DeFuniah Springs iw ! ans i Cup
nd A iif revong mi Renna

 

      

ury, a retired coal oper
| yurne, Fla. He also main |

 
 

with a festering grudge lis
for slurs to report is spretty sickening by but iti is ike

‘Si ply n not distinctions
Q eal eee T]

   

       
   
   
          

bil ty to giaduate hinge
Finally, how seri
students really sc 80 set |

 

  
   

slurs even
ne else out of
ng an honor
jor moral
ot make my list of

;, and it seems to
ho dreamed up the new rule on
oo much idle time on their hands.

 

 

THomas D. SWANN, "74

 

a Waco, » Texas
EDITOR:
You did a splendid job with the Sey ptember/Oc-

  
 
 
 

tober issue of the Alumni Magazine presenting the
highlights of the Class of 1989.
Of course, you had the best of subjects.
Congratulations to you and eine, classe 7

 

EDITOR:
I just received the Septen October iss
the Alumni Magazine. I thought it itv was the mo

exciting and inspiring issue ever. (ae can’)

together.
For the first time I am 1 able to recommend
High School]

 

W&L to my students [at Episcopal F
and to my friends’ children. I am certain W&L
is now y ready to move into a new era of prestige

.

quality. Congratulations.

 

BEN Swan, ’78
_ Alexandria, Va.

 

Nov.

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

3—James Madison Takedown

Tournament
4—Hampden-Sydney
7—W&L Invitational

11—Newport News Appren.
4—Maryland Open
11—Johns Hopkins Quad.
15—Duke

18—Davidson

22— Virginia State

25—W&L College Invit.
1—W&L Triangular
5—Longwood
8—Washington & Jefferson

Triangular

 

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Jan. |

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Nov.
Nov.
Nov.

Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Nov.
Nov.
Dec.

Jan.
Jan.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

22-23—W&L Tip-Off

Tournament
26—Emory University
3—Hampden-Sydney
7—Lynchburg
11—Greensboro
7—Cortland State

10-11—W&L Invitational

14—Maryville
16—Roanoke
18—Bridgewater
21—Eastern Mennonite
23—Emory & Henry
24—Mary Washington
28—Hampden-Sydney
30—Emory & Henry
1—Lynchburg
3— Bridgewater
5—Mary Washington
8— Roanoke
11—Eastern Mennonite
12—Emory University
14—Maryville
18—ODAC Quarterfinals

21-22—ODAC Semi-Finals

& Finals

13—V.M.I.
22—Johns Hopkins
23—Shippensburg
5-7—Virginia State Collegiate
Championships
17—James Madison
18—Georgetown/Frostburg
24—Towson State
31—Shepherd College
1—Gettysburg
5—Mary Washington
8—William & Mary

21-23—Tri-State

Championships

13—Mary Baldwin
22—Johns Hopkins
5-7—Virginia State Collegiate
Championships

18—Georgetown/Frostburg
31—Shepherd College

1—Gettysburg

5—Mary Washington
12—Sweet Briar/R-M

21-23—Tri-State

Championships

HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
T.B.A.

Away

HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
HOME

HOME

HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME

 
  
  

The Alumni M ETL aTG a : Seon Corte Postage Paid

At Lexington, Virginia 24450
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY pa pep ace Ce earn
(USPS 667-040) ae

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Don’t Wait ©
Until
The Last Minute

 

 

To Make Your Gift To The Annual Fund In 1985.

(You might forget and cost yourself a tax deduction this Bae,

The Annual Fund
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

