 

 

 

 

 

Fred C. Cole—1912-1986

Brea Carrington Cole, president of Washington and Lee from
1959 to 1967, died May 6, 1986, at his home in Chapel Hill,
N.C. He was 74 years old.

A native Texan, Cole was remembered as a quiet and unob-
trusive man who guided Washington and Lee through a period
of transition and changing attitudes.

He came to Washington and Lee from Tulane University,
where he was successively an associate professor and professor
of history, dean of the college of arts and sciences, and academic
vice president.

Cole succeeded Francis Pendleton Gaines as W&L’s 18th
president and worked steadily to sustain and improve the
University in a variety of important ways.

Among the most significant accomplishments of Cole’s
tenure were a substantial increase in faculty salaries to make
them competitive with those of much larger universities, a tri-

woes a pling of financial aid available for
students, and the establishment of
the Robert E. Lee Research Pro-
gram for undergraduates.

During Cole’s administration,
Lee Chapel was restored with funds
from the Ford Motor Company, a
new science building and new dor-
mitories were constructed, and
several campus buildings were
renovated.

‘*In a vitally important transi-
tion period for Washington and
Lee and higher education in
general, Fred Cole strengthened the
academic stature of the University
by renewing the vigor of the faculty and greatly expanding the
financial aid to deserving students,’’ said James W. Whitehead,
treasurer of W&L under Cole.

While at W&L, Cole served for three years as president of
the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges. He was
chairman of the Department of the Army’s Historical Advisory
Council on Research of the Office of Education and was a
trustee of the George C. Marshall Foundation.

When Cole resigned in 1967, the faculty of the University
adopted a resolution praising his accomplishments. The resolu-
tion noted that ‘‘because of the progressive attitude which has
marked his eight-year tenure in the presidency, Washington and
Lee has been brought to a new awareness of the distinctive con-
tributions it can make to higher education.’’

In a separate resolution, the Executive Committee of the
student body called Cole ‘‘a farsighted and extremely capable
administrator [who] has achieved, despite considerable
obstacles, a significant record of progress in solving the prob-
lems of Washington and Lee.’’

Cole is remembered at Washington and Lee as a man who
eschewed sentimentality, but spoke with conviction and sinceri-
ty. When he left W&L to become president of the Council on
Library Resources Inc., he said his fondest recollection would
be ‘‘the friendship with the students and faculty, one of the
finest groups with whom you could have the privilege of
associating.”’

Cole is survived by his wife, Lois F. Cole; three sons, Fred
C. Cole Jr. of Columbia, Md., Robert Grey Cole of Oxford,

 

 

Miss., and Taylor M. Cole of Wilson, N.C.; one daughter,
Caroline C. Cornwell of Providence, R.I.; two brothers, Robert
T. Cole of Durham, N.C., and Luther Cole of Franklin, Texas;
and a sister, Margaret Elliott of Senora, Texas.

A memorial fund in Cole’s honor has been established at
Washington and Lee for the purchase of books for the Univer-
sity Library. Contributions should be directed to the Fred C.
Cole Memorial Fund, Development Office, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, Va. 24450.

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees adopted the follow-
ing resolution at its May meeting in Lexington:

Nearly 20 years have passed since President Fred Cole left
his desk at Washington and Lee University. Many who knew
him best are no longer here. But for those who remain, news
of his death on May 6, 1986, touched them with profound
sadness and evoked fond memories of a gentle man who was
able, learned and wise, sensitive, generous, and kind.

When he came to Washington Hall in 1959, he stepped into
an office occupied for 29 years by his predecessor, Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines. President Cole was deeply aware of the
heritage of his new position, and his commitment to its service
was complete.

Reflections on Fred Cole engender sentiments of deep ad-
miration and great respect...

He was the wise academician who inspired his faculty by
his demonstrated personal concern for their careers, as well as
his success in lifting their compensation to nationally respected
levels. Financial aid for deserving students tripled under his
enlightened guidance. He brought about the restoration and
preservation of Lee Chapel. The Robert E. Lee Undergraduate
Research Program was part of the outreach of his fertile mind.

He was the sensitive Southerner who worked patiently and
diligently with other men of the South, coming to terms with
change that must be accommodated, as well as change that is
welcomed. Few know of the role President Cole, and others
at Washington and Lee, played in helping sustain the public
school system in Virginia’s Prince Edward County during a time
of painful transition. His public profile was low, but he ac-
complished many things for so many others.

Some of our memories are personally enduring. . .

He was the gentle Texan who insisted that the bones of Lee’s
faithful Traveller should have a final resting place more dignified
than a museum case.

He was the fierce competitor whose battles on the handball
courts at high noon changed the exercise and working habits
of a dozen close associates.

Relatively few Washington and Lee alumni came to know
Fred Cole well, but for every member of the University family
he was our President for eight important years. Today, as we
contemplate the remarkable achievements of this man and con-
sider our sorrow at his death, we reflect with pride, pleasure,
and gratitude on what his life meant for Washington and Lee.

By this resolution the Board of Trustees of Washington and
Lee University extends its deepest sympathy to President Cole’s
wife, Lois; his daughter, Caroline; and his sons, Fred Jr., Grey,
and Taylor. We hope they know how much of Fred Carrington
Cole endures on the campus that was once his home.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 61, Number 4, August 1986

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor
RoBERT FureE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
Patrick HINELy, Photographer

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, Ill.

JoHN W. Fotsom, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, 62, 7reasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, 759
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, °44
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, 771, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

RoBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

WaynE D. McGrew Jr., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, 770
Washington, D.C.

PauL J. B. MurRpHY, ’49
McLean, Va.

THomMaAS P. O’BRIEN JR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class
postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

 

10

12

15

20

24

28

30

32

38

40

ee .
tS Pad

On the Inside

Celebrating Achievement
Reflections on Good Luck
Alumni Sons and Daughters
Lacrosse Change

30 Years of Freshmen
The Big Boys

A Different Angle

W&L Gazette

Generals’ Report

Alumni News

Class Notes

In Memoriam

And Furthermore

On the Cover: Commencement 1986 was indeed a time to celebrate

73

the accomplishments of four years. Photo by W. Patrick Hinely,

 

Celebratin
Achievement

Class of °86 Leaves
Legacy of Reconstruction

by Anne Coulling

%
£°\mid the clicking of camera shutters and
the flicker of flashes, the members of
Washington and Lee’s Class of 1986 process-
ed along the Colonnade and took their places
on the Front Lawn for the University’s 201st
commencement exercises.

Proud parents (and grandparents),
brothers and sisters, and friends perched
precariously on chairs and peered over the
shoulders of their neighbors to catch a
glimpse of the graduates and to take snap-
shots of the momentous occasion.

The graduates’ next-of-kin were not,
however, the only members of the audience
toting cameras. Newspaper and television
reporters and photographers were much in
evidence, too, drawn by the historic nature
of the occasion. This was the last all-male
class to graduate from Washington and Lee.
(Five women transfer students are schedul-
ed to receive their degrees in June 1987.)

And yet it was not the all-male composi-

2 W&L

tion of this class that primarily distinguish-
ed its members. Rather, the Class of 1986,
individually and collectively, was remarkable
for its record of achievement during the past
four years.

In his traditional remarks to the
graduates, President John D. Wilson
described some of these accomplishments.
**There are many outstanding individuals in
this class,’’ he said, ‘‘but there is a class iden-
tity, too. You have been a building class.
You have... reached out to reconstruct
some things that very much needed to be
reconstructed. You have seen some institu-
tions within the University that required
building up, and you have reached out to do
that.”’

Wilson mentioned specially the efforts of
various seniors to strengthen several campus
organizations, to revitalize fraternity life,
and to help ensure a smooth transition to
coeducation.

 

 

   

 

The seniors had also known their share
of sadness during the past four years, Wilson
noted, referring to the deaths of two
members of the class: J. Christopher Hunter,
who died in an automobile accident, and
Thomas J. Fellin, who was killed in the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity house fire.

Yet even in the midst of tragedy, Wilson
observed, the seniors had their minds on
reconstructing and rebuilding. Several weeks
before they left Lexington, the class initiated
a drive to establish an endowed scholarship
in memory of Fellin. With a goal of $25,000
to be raised over the next five years, class of-
ficers anticipate that the first scholarship will
be awarded during the 1991-92 academic
year.

In his remarks during the ceremony,
John B. Lewis of Greenville, Va.; president
of the student body’s Executive Committee,
reminded his classmates that their respon-
sibilities to their a/ma mater do not end with

 

 

the completion of the degree.

‘‘Graduation from Washington and Lee
promises many rewards, but it also has many
demands,’’ said Lewis. ‘‘We must be the
leaders in our community and our nation,
in an effort to help them make the correct
decisions, so that we can leave this country
a better place than we found it.”’

Lewis continued: ‘‘. . . Graduation from
W&L demands that we support her as best
we can, both financially and philosophical-
ly. We must contribute generously to the An-
nual Fund and convince the best and
brightest students to come here. We must
keep abreast of the changes and issues affect-
ing Washington and Lee’s traditions, and
determine which are hindering, which are
constructive, which are merely hollow
anachronisms, and which are meaningful to
the institution.’’

In his baccalaureate sermon of the
previous day, the Right Rev. Christoph

Keller Jr., °’39, a Trustee and Bishop
Emeritus of the Episcopal diocese of Arkan-
sas, encouraged the graduating seniors to be
‘*visionaries.”’

Said Keller: ‘‘A visionary is someone with
the capacity to see more than meets the eye
and . . . the capacity to look beyond to what
might be.’’ Keller held up the examples of
the University’s best-known visionaries:
George Washington, who ‘‘envisioned a new
country governed by principles of liberty,
justice, and equality, the likes of which had
not been seen before’’; and Robert E. Lee,
who saw ‘‘a reunited nation with war and
hatred put aside.’’ Explained Keller: ‘‘They
had these visions and set out to do something
about them.’’

During the commencement ceremony,
Wilson exhorted the graduates to look for
role models in another group of individuals:
the four who were awarded honorary
degrees. They were Joseph L. Goldstein, ’62,

 

winner of the 1985 Nobel prize in medicine;
the Hon. Charles S. Robb, former governor
of Virginia; Lynda Johnson Robb, founder
of the Virginia Women’s Cultural History
Project; and William B. Spong Jr.,. professor
of law at the College of William and Mary
and a former United States senator.
Goldstein and his partner, Michael S.
Brown, won the Nobel prize for their
research into cholesterol metabolism and
cholesterol-related diseases (see the
November/December Alumni Magazine).
Their work has led to discoveries for the
treatment and prevention of hardening of the
arteries. Goldstein was the 1962 class valedic-
torian at W&L and graduated with a perfect
4.0 average. Said Wilson: ‘‘We can emulate
his self-discipline, his dedication, his striv-
ing for excellence, his unwillingness to set-
tle for the easy answer, his capacity for
thoroughness, his honesty, and his rigor.’’
Goldstein received a doctor of science degree.

W&L 3

 

 

Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, *62
Doctor of Science

 

When Charles Robb was governor of
Virginia, state support grew for education,
with a 37 percent salary increase for teachers.
Five hundred new industrial plants were
opened, creating almost 33,000 jobs. And
more than 600 women and 300 blacks were
appointed to boards, commissions, and the
bench. Of Robb, Wilson told the graduates:
**We can strive for his empathy for others,
the confidence he has generated in himself
and the collective wisdom of a free people,
in his vision of the good society.”’

4 W&L

Hon. Charles S. Robb
Doctor of Laws

Charles Robb received a doctor of laws
degree.

A self-described ‘‘professional
volunteer,’’ Lynda Robb has held leadership
positions in no less than 62 separate commit-
tees and organizations. She created and
organized the Virginia Women’s Cultural
History Project, which recognized the history
of women in the Commonwealth. Of Lyn-
da Robb, Wilson said: ‘‘We can aspire to
develop the confidence that she has
developed that an individual can make a dif-

recipients] have set for you.’
—President John D. Wilson

Lynda Johnson Robb
Doctor of Humane Letters

**You could do far worse than
trying to meet the standards

[the four honorary degree

9

William B. Spong
Doctor of Laws

ference, the ability to unite civic virtues with
responsibilities to family, the capacity to care
for others, and a willingness to give of
oneself to alleviate suffering.’’ Lynda Robb
received a doctor of humane letters degree.

William B. Spong was elected to the
Virginia House of Delegates in 1954. Two
years later he began a 10-year term in the
Virginia Senate and later served a six-year
term in the United States Senate. From 1976
to 1985 he was professor of law and dean of
William and Mary’s Marshall-Wythe School

 

of Law. This fall he will be a visiting pro-
fessor at Washington and Lee, teaching the
legal ethics component of the University’s
program in applied ethics for pre-
professional students. Said Wilson of Spong:
‘“We can aspire to his refined ideal of public
service, his ability to use the gifts of human
experience to develop his compassion and yet
his hardheadedness, his generosity of spirit,
and the wisdom he has achieved born of
reflection and direct experience.’’ Spong
received a doctor of laws degree.

Wilson told the new graduates to follow
the examples set for them by the honorary
degree recipients, adding that ‘‘these are your
classmates, too. They have taken very dif-
ferent paths [from yours] thus far, but their
lives reveal common themes with yours: ser-
vice to others, a sense or vision of the good
society, respect for learning, a reaffirmation
of the Greek ideal, the ultimate joy one is
to find and seek for in the exercise of the
quintessential human attribute of mind. You
could do far worse than trying to meet the
standards they have set for you.”’

Commencement was a time to recognize
the achievements not only of the honorary
degree recipients, but of the 275 other
graduates as well. In particular, Wilson
recognized one member of the class, John-
Paul Bouffard of Berkeley Heights, N.J.,
who was named class valedictorian for com-
pleting his years with a cumulative grade-
point average of 4.123 on a scale of 4.33.
Bouffard also received the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Medallion, awarded by the faculty
to the graduating senior who excels ‘‘in high
ideals of living, in spiritual qualities, and in
generous and disinterested service to others.”’

Bouffard received the bachelor of arts
degree with a major in psychology. He was
elected to Phi Eta Sigma (the freshman
honor society), Phi Beta Kappa, and
Omicron Delta Kappa, and he was a finalist
for a Rhodes scholarship. He was active in
both campus and community life, singing in
the Glee Club and Southern Comfort and
serving as a volunteer at a daycare center in
Lexington.

Two retiring members of the University
community were also recognized during the
commencement exercises. They were Edward
C. Atwood, dean of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics who is step-
ping down from that post after 17 years, and
E. Stewart Epley, ’49, who is retiring after
six years as University treasurer.

As part of the commencement day exer-
cises, 25 ROTC cadets were commissioned
as second lieutenants during a ceremony in
Lee Chapel, where Maj. Gen. Robert E.
Wagner, commander of the U.S. Army
Cadet Command, was the featured speaker.

A week and a half before the

Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller, ’39

| ™ A f '

- =
oo, a

  

Executive Committee President John B. Lewis

undergraduate commencement, the Univer-
sity awarded juris doctor degrees to 114 law
students.

That ceremony was conducted in a gen-
tle spring shower, which resulted in a color-
ful display of umbrellas but failed to dampen
the spirit of the occasion. President Wilson
took advantage of the rain to point out that
the diplomas were the genuine article—i.e.,
authentic sheepskin. He did so by way of
warning the graduates that the diplomas
would shrink and dissolve if they were allow-
ed to get wet.

In his brief remarks’ to the graduates,
Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the School of
Law, said he hoped in addition to the friend-
ships with one another, an affinity for the
University, and an understanding of the law
that they would take from Washington and

 

Pa

Valedictorian John-Paul Bouffard

 

Lee a sense of honor and a sense of duty to
serve others.

Noting that the Honor System is central
to Washington and Lee, Kirgis said: ‘‘I
fervently hope that all those who graduate
from this law school will trust each other,
that your clients will trust you, and that you
will all be known as lawyers in whom com-
plete trust may be placed.’’

As their principal speaker for the occa-
sion, the graduates had chosen Sydney
Lewis, ’40, ’43L, founder and chairman of
the executive committee of Best Products
Co. Inc. (See page 6.)

The John S. Davis Prize for Law, given
to the graduate who maintained the best
record throughout the three-year law school
career, was presented to Stokely Gray

Caldwell Jr. of Roanoke.
W&L 5

Good
Luck!

Lewis Advises Grads
To ‘Go with the Flow’

 

 

by Sydney Lewis, ’40, ’43L

I am deeply honored by your invitation
to speak to you today, on this, the payoff
day of the academic calendar.

I have never before agreed to give an ad-
dress of this sort, because of my feeling that
such talks can never be short enough, and
thus that the perfect commencement address
would probably be none at all. Moreover,
what in the world can one tell a group of
young people stuffed with seven years of
learning and needing most of all experience,
and not any more lectures from me or
anyone else?

But respect and love for one’s alma mater
can induce one to do strange things. And
since Washington and Lee represents for me
a double alma mater, I simply could not
resist saying yes when the invitation came.
And today, I am really so glad I did.

Tradition demands that I congratulate
you, so that we may rejoice together upon
your completion of a very demanding course
of study. And so: Congratulations!

Tradition also demands that I share with
you some substantial thought, usually hav-
ing to do with the importance of getting up
early in the morning, working hard all day,

 

Sydney Lewis presented these remarks at the com-
mencement exercise for the School of Law. Lewis
is the founder and chairman of the executive com-
mittee of Best Products Co. Inc. of Richmond.
He was selected to speak by the law graduates.

6 W&L

and going early to bed in order to die rich
and universally mourned.
Unfortunately, while I do get up early,

work: hard all day, and go to bed
(reasonably) early—I don’t believe that such
a disciplined, methodical approach to life is
enough. And, I’m afraid that I also fear that
there may be too many lawyers ‘‘out there’’
already. So, if I must give you some advice,
I will. But I am afraid that it will be heretical:
in four words, go to business school. | did.
But I forget! Now there are too many
M.B.A.’s ‘‘out there’’ also.

At any rate, it would be rank hypocrisy
for me to preach the virtues of hard work
and sound planning alone, since luck has had
a great deal to do with the course of my life.
Luck and something else, which forms the
serious part of my message today.

I was 16 and largely unscratched by life
when I came to Washington and Lee for the
first time. I suppose my age and inexperience
had a lot to do with why it made such an im-
pression on me. It was a small school, which
was comforting, but a school that preached
and practiced the virtue of independence for
its student body. And that was not comfort-
ing; rather, it was a little bracing.

For me, the intimacy of the place, the
Honor System, the close ties promulgated by
the fraternity system and the small student
body, and the frequent interaction between

 

faculty and students, all opened up a com-
pletely new world, one in which many fields
of knowledge and endeavor were naturally
assumed to be open to all students, all in-
quiring minds. That feeling stayed with me
through law school.

In fact, it was the merest luck that I at-
tended Washington and Lee at all, since
Vanderbilt was my school of first choice. But
a basketball buddy of mine persuaded me
that I should give Washington and Lee a try,
and he would follow me after spending the
next year at Woodberry Forest. I did, and
he didn’t. He went to the University of
Virginia. But I have been indebted to him
ever since, for this was the first in a series
of turning points in my life that I believe were
largely due to luck.

The second turning point in my life also
happened at Washington and Lee. One
night, I had no date, so I offered my car to
a fraternity brother who had a date but no
car. I offered to drive, and by the end of the
weekend something strange had transpired:
I had the date and my fraternity brother was
driving. I still have the date today, and if you
don’t think marriage is a turning point, then
you don’t know Frances.

Nine years ago, on the occasion of the
dedication of the then new law school
building, I mentioned that the two most im-
portant influences on my life, for the good,

had been my wife and a Washington and Lee
education. Indeed, over the years, their im-
portance has only increased. Today marks
the occasion when you have officially ac-
quired the latter; now—from where I’m
standing—you only need a ‘‘Frances’’ (spell-
ed with an ‘‘e’”’ ) to guarantee your

66599
1

e”’ or an
future success.

But another turning point in my life oc-
curred during my training as a non-
commissioned officer in World War II.
Among those in my immediate circle, I soon
discovered that the only one who had any
sense, sensitivity to life, and interest in
discussing anything beyond sex and alcohol
(in either order) was black. Now that comes
as no surprise to you in 1986, but for a
Southern boy like me in the early 1940s, it
was a revelation and a real turning point in
my continuing education.

I would like to think I consciously put all
these lessons to work in starting Best Prod-
ucts after the war, but I think that it is more
likely that I only learned one thing, and the
same one, from each of these lucky ‘‘turn-
ing points.”’

Psychologists tell me that this one thing
is an attitude consisting chiefly of ‘‘remain-
ing open and flexible to new experiences.’’

A corollary of this attitude, by the way,
is Lewis’ Rule of Unruliness: never put off
what makes you laugh and have fun today,

 

because if you put it off, you won’t do it un-
til you’re too old, and you’ll just lose those
laughs and fun.

At any rate, the ability to ‘‘go with the
flow’’ came in handy in getting a fledgling
business off the ground after the war. In fact,
I had returned to Richmond at my father’s
request; he needed help in his business. He
promised me that I could continue to prac-
tice law, which had been my greatest wish
since high school days. But I quickly
discovered that I was neglecting the law in
favor of the fascination of the business
world, and loving every minute of it.

Thus, another turning point, and the
creation and the experimentation out of
which grew the catalog/showroom concept
to show and deliver the wares of Best Prod-
ucts Co., resulting in a chain of 215 locations
today from coast to coast.

Well, of what conceivable use to you is
this highly selective review of what life has
forcibly imparted to me, aside from quite
possibly an example of what Charles Dickens
once called ‘‘How Not To Do It’’?

Only this: to say to you that I believe that
many of the facts and beliefs you have learn-
ed in your last seven years of schooling may
be excess baggage in your future. That is to
say, already obsolete.

As an undergraduate, you dutifully learn-
ed biology and sociology and psychology and

even history that has already been rejected
by the most forward-looking of scholars in
the particular field in question. The half-life
of knowledge in most fields today is less than
the few years it took you to learn it.

And law, of course, is rewritten every
day. As little as 10 years ago, the notion that
lawyers would argue the liability of the
tobacco companies for the diseases alleged-
ly incurred by smokers would have been con-
sidered the merest foolishness. As I recall,
about 45 years ago in my law school days,
we labored long over the 14th Amendment.
Now it’s the First Amendment that occupies
the courts.

It is commonplace for newly minted
graduates to reflect their satisfaction with the
thought that they and they alone possess the
latest and the most compelling slant on reali-
ty. Unfortunately, the truth is that the latest
slant on reality is already out of date.

What then, you wonder, is this speaker
and ardent supporter of a Washington and
Lee education announcing? That it has all
been a waste of time and money?

Of course not! Don’t equate the ex-
cellence of a law education with the facts that
you acquired while you were here rather than
with the elegant and vital seminar in how to
continue learning after you leave. What will
not become outmoded is precisely the set of
skills and attitudes that you learned in order

W&L 7

 

‘.. - Uf I could leave you
with one thought, it would
be the important one of
remaining open to chance as
it throws opportunity in
your way.’”’

8 W&L

to acquire your particular training.

In the crucible of knowledge in which you
have been tested, reshaped, stretched, and
purified during the last several years, you
have developed and refined these essential
skills, skills that will serve you for a lifetime
in whatever marketplace you hawk your
wares, or whatever arena you serve your
fellow man, or participate in the arts, or pur-
sue learning for pleasure.

In these acquired skills is to be found the
real and lasting worth of a legal education.
You have developed the tools with which you
may now begin to shape your next effort as
you start the lifetime of learning for which
these years have been only a preparation—
but the best possible preparation, I believe,
you could have. A legal education, in fact,
teaches you how to stick your nose into
anybody’s business. When you have learn-
ed to ask the right questions and to separate
two issues that formerly had been assumed
to be one, you have learned what you will
need to acquire quickly the necessary
knowledge for practically any field of
endeavor. For example, about 20 percent of
the CEOs of large corporations in our coun-
try started off with a legal education. In fact,
it has been suggested by some business
friends that a law should be passed that no
more attorneys may be CEOs.

Ultimately, it is well-nigh impossible for
one human to learn from another, because
of our distressing need to bang our heads
against the wall of experience. But if I could
leave you with one thought, it would be the
important one of remaining open to chance
as it throws opportunity in your way. As you
trip over the obstacles reality obligingly
places in your path, note them, and figure
out what they’re telling you, and shift direc-
tion accordingly.

Shifting direction: How lucky we are!

The reason each of you can decide to
practice law or to shift and be a businessman,
or to live simply and work for a peace
organization, or to run for office, or to teach
others, or yes, to stay home and be a house-
husband or -wife is that you are here in
America.

Since we are on the verge of celebrating
the bicentennial of the adoption of our U.S.
Constitution, I will allow myself to be trite,
for there is no new way I know how to say
that only in our country are the opportunities
for upward mobility and lateral mobility as
available to each person as they are here. It
is no coincidence that the legal system we
have in America, founded by those radical
thinkers of 200 years ago and nourished by
the best and the worst legal minds of the in-
tervening years, has given all of us the op-
portunity to flourish as individuals and to
make our varied contributions to the world

in the ways we wish.

It is a continuing process that keeps our
law alive in each generation. That process in-
volves not only the courts, the legislature, the
political system, but it also involves the dai-
ly life each of us lives.

If you practice law, you have the oppor-
tunity to influence our great legal system in
a very direct way. If you decide not to prac-
tice law, you have the ability to affect that
system also, perhaps in a less direct way, but
in a nonetheless lasting manner. In daily life,
to be a respecter of law is to respect our in-
heritance, and to conserve it for the next
generation.

If the sole result of the legal training you
have received at this law school is to add to
the national burden of lawyers, then I for
one will be heartily sorry. The study of law,
in all its particularity and denseness of inci-
dent, is a magnificent education.

But if you have absorbed, during your
time here, something of the independence of
mind, the love of free inquiry, and the open-
ness to the many-spired nature of experience
that this School of Law embodies, then I will
rejoice. For you will share with me, and with
your fellows, and your professors, and the
ghosts of the many who have preceded you
here, in the undying spirit that animates this
wonderful and august place.

As I reviewed these remarks, I suddenly
realized I had omitted the only two pieces of
advice I am absolutely qualified to give.
When I entered this University, Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines, then President, remind-
ed all of us the very first day (and he con-
tinued to do so every chance he got) that
none of us was fully paying for his educa-
tion. . . that the financial contributions of
benefactors such as George Washington,
Cyrus McCormick, and many others made
our education possible. And Dr. Gaines
hoped that each of us would always
remember this when the day arrived when we
were fortunate enough to have means of our
own to share. I have remembered, as do
thousands of other alumni. Now that you
will be leaving, I hope that you, too, will
remember. . . and help to provide to those
who come after you this very special
Washington and Lee experience.

Now the second piece of advice: tomor-
row start training to be an active senior
citizen! Hurry, for there is only very fleeting
time left for all you must learn and practice
so that you can have fun and be productive
in the long last third of your life.

Again, there never has been, nor could
there ever be, a greater distinction for me
than to participate in your commencement.
I thank you for this honor, and may God
grant each of you the good luck he found
for me.

 

, 52, °55 ;

5

3

3g

sy
%

 

Bn

 

I to lll

NCAA Reclassification
Requested for Lacrosse

by Mike Stachura, ’86

© ust as June marked the beginning of a
new era for Washington and Lee’s
graduating seniors, so too did it mark the
beginning of a new era for the University’s
lacrosse team.

That month, a request was filed with the
National Collegiate Athletic Association to
change W&L’s classification in lacrosse from
Division I to Division III. Filing that peti-
tion was the first step in a process that, by
the 1987 lacrosse season, will have moved the
Generals out of the division in which athletic
scholarships are the rule into the division
where such scholarships are prohibited.

The request to change divisions was set
in motion in May when the University’s
Board of Trustees approved a recommenda-
tion of the University Athletic Committee
that the move be made ‘‘immediately.’’

That recommendation came less than two
weeks after the Generals had completed their
fourth straight losing season. It was the
team’s longest slump since the University
decided in 1971 to compete in the NCAA’s
Division I, yet operate under Division III
guidelines, which require that financial aid
be awarded to athletes on the same basis that
it is awarded to all other students. W&L’s
other varsity teams compete on the Division

 

The author, who graduated in June, served for
three years as sports editor of The Ring-tum Phi
and won a Hearst Foundation award for a 1985
story analyzing the W&L lacrosse situation.

10 W&L

III level, with the exception of water polo for
which there is only one division.

The 1986 Generals’ lacrosse team had
hoped to silence the debate over the pro-
gram’s divisional status with a successful
season. After the first seven games, the team
seemed on the verge of achieving that goal.
W&L raced to its best start in four years.
winning four of those first seven contests and
giving eventual Division I runner-up Virginia
all it could handle for three quarters before
losing, 13-6, in Charlottesville.

But then the roof caved in. The Generals
mustered only one win in the last six contests.
There were big losses to Cornell (26-2),
Loyola (20-6), and Maryland-Baltimore
County (17-8), as well as defeats at the hands
of Washington College and Roanoke, teams
that wound up in the Division III national
tournament.

The Athletic Committee’s recommenda-
tion was unanimous, stressing that ‘‘W&L
cannot realistically expect to be competitive
in lacrosse at the Division I level.’’ The
Trustees agreed. Said W&L President John
D. Wilson after the Board’s decision: ‘‘The
Athletic Committee submitted an extremely
thoughtful proposal. The Board agreed that
the trend toward increased subsidization in
Division I lacrosse is not a direction
Washington and Lee is prepared to follow.”’

Athletic Director William D. McHenry
echoed that sentiment and added: ‘‘Our

 

student-athletes were at a severe disadvan-
tage when we played at the Division I level.
Now, we have a more realistic chance to pro-
vide positive reinforcement for our athletes.”’

The Board’s recommendation sparked
various reactions from players, recruits,
coaches, and alumni. Those reactions ran the
gamut—from excitement to acceptance to
disappointment.

Dennis Daly, the head coach who has en-
dured losing seasons in his first three years
at W&L, saw the decision as a step in the
right direction. ‘‘I’m glad the University has
decided to treat sports in a consistent
fashion,”’ Daly said. ‘‘I think that now we’re
in a proper classification for the institutional
philosophy.’’

That philosophy dates back to 1954 and
the Board of Trustees’ historic decision on
intercollegiate athletics. Although that deci-
sion was aimed primarily at the University’s
intercollegiate football program, which was
suspended for a year, one element of the
Trustees’ six-part resolution read: ‘‘That no
other athletic scholarships be awarded
beyond those already committed.’’

Such philosophical consistency not-
withstanding, there were other important
arguments in favor of the change in lacrosse.
T. J. Finnerty, one of the Generals’ captains
for next season, thinks Division III is the pro-
per place for W&L because ‘‘we’ll be more
competitive as far as play in Division III

goes.’’ Finnerty, a Geneva, N.Y.,
native who chose W&L over peren-
nial Division III lacrosse power
Hobart, added: ‘‘There’s excite-
ment and the chance of a tourna-
ment bid in Division III, while in
Division I [the chance for such a
post-season tournament bid] was
getting farther and farther away.”’

Other players shared Finnerty’s
excitement about prospects of
future success. ‘‘I think it’s great,”’
said sophomore Robbie Stanton of
Virginia Beach. ‘‘It will give a lot
of guys a chance to have a winning
season.”’

Chris Giblin, a midfielder at
Episcopal High School in Alexan-
dria, Va., who will enter in the fall,
expressed similar satisfaction, say-
ing: ‘‘I’d rather be playing for the
championship in Division III than
playing Division I and be struggling
like they have been.”’

On the other hand, some players and
recruits admitted being dismayed by the deci-
sion. But many of them still agreed that Divi-
sion III is where W&L belongs.

‘‘My immediate reaction was, well, not
betrayal, but disappointment. I was really
looking forward to playing in Division I,”’
said Julian Gillespie, a high school all-star
who will enter W&L in the fall. ‘‘But then
I started thinking, and I realized that W&L
was not the team it was in the ’70s. It just
doesn’t belong in Division I.”’

Not all observers agreed with that assess-
ment of the situation, however.

Robert S. Clements, ’80, goalie for the
1980 Generals and W&L’s last first-team All-
America selection, called the move ‘‘definite-
ly a step down.’’ And Ernest (Skip)
Lichtfuss, ’74, also a two-time All-American,
wishes W&L had stayed in Division I. ‘‘The
issue,’’ said Lichtfuss, ‘‘is ‘either you give
money or you don’t.’ Frankly, in the long
run, I’d like to see them give money.”’

Added Sterling (Skeet) Chadwick, ’74: ‘‘I
wonder if we’re taking a step down in play-
ing Division III and in so doing taking a step
down in our recruiting. W&L didn’t become
a great academic institution by shooting for
a lower level.”’

One interested observer without any ties
to the University is Dave Urick, the head
coach at Hobart. From his vantage point,
Urick saw the decision as vital to maintain-
ing W&L’s lacrosse tradition.

‘‘The tradition of W&L in lacrosse can
only be enhanced by the move to Division
III,’’ said Urick, whose team won the Divi-
sion III championship this year after upset-
ting Syracuse and narrowly losing to Johns
Hopkins, two Division I powers, during the

|
|
t
]
Di

Generals’ G. T. Corrigan shoots against Virginia.

seed in the eight-team national
tournament this year, raised the
distinct possibility that W&L might
not have made it into the most re-
cent tournament field, even though
the Generals had a veteran squad
that featured 10 seniors.

On the other hand, Hobart’s
Urick, a member of the committee
that helps select the Division III
tournament participants, said: ‘‘I
think that [Division III] tournament
play for W&L] is a fairly safe
oe assumption. Even if we don’t get
a chance to schedule them during
the regular season, it’s not unlike-
ly that we may meet them in

 

 

 

regular season. ‘‘Taking away the Roman
numeral for a second, W&L is still going to
be a respected lacrosse program and receive
national attention.’’

William N. Clements, a 1950 All-
America goalie for the Generals, pointed to
the decision as a double-edged sword. ‘‘Since
Washington and Lee will never give athletic
scholarships, Division III is the natural
course of events,’’ Clements said. ‘‘But don’t
expect the competition [at Division III] to be
that much easier.”’

Clements’ warning is indeed valid,
especially considering that the Generals lost
to the only two Division III teams on their
schedule (Roanoke and Washington) this
past spring.

In its recommendation to the Trustees,
the Athletic Committee addressed the situa-
tion by concluding: ‘‘The Committee is con-
fident that with the full backing of Univer-
sity resources, a support consistent with
W&L’s philosophy of fostering student-
athletes in its intercollegiate sports program,
lacrosse can realistically strive for a cham-
pionship at the Division III level. Such a
commitment to excellence is also a recom-
mendation of the Committee.”’

Not that anyone believes such a lofty goal
will be easily achieved. John Pirro was the
head lacrosse coach at Roanoke College un-
til he resigned that post in June. Pirro call-
ed the addition of W&L to the Division III
ranks ‘‘the greatest thing for lacrosse in this
area.’? W&L will join Roanoke in competing
for the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
lacrosse title in 1987 against Hampden-
Sydney (which was ranked in the top 15 in
Division III this year), Lynchburg, and
Randolph-Macon.

But Pirro, whose team was the eighth

postseason play.”’

W&L’s Daly has defined future
success in terms of winning—‘‘not
necessarily a national champion-
ship, but to get to the tournament
and to do well—that’s important.”’

Pirro, whose teams have defeated W&L
two years running, cited the importance to
a team of goals, such as a national tourna-
ment bid, and suggested that such goals were
not realistic for W&L during its last several
years in Division I.

‘*The potential to make postseason play
is such an exciting goal, and it’s magnified
each time you go on the field. [In Division
III,] W&L’s players will be saying, ‘If we win
today, we’ve taken one more step toward an
NCAA tournament bid.’ Recently, it seem-
ed their players weren’t sure what they were
playing for.’

In the end, the demoralizing effects of
playing Division I lacrosse may have been the
key to the decision to reclassify. Before the
Board of Trustees gave its approval to the
recommendation, Chris John, a senior co-
captain and a student representative on the
Athletic Committee, said he wanted to see
his teammates play in Division III and end
the frustration he has felt the last four years.

‘*T don’t want the juniors on this year’s
squad to go out without having a winning
season,’’ he said. ‘‘I see absolutely no reason
in wasting a year in Division I. I don’t want
the guys feeling the way I feel right now.”’

John Wielgus, associate professor of
biology and co-author of the committee’s
proposal, acknowledged that the morale fac-
tor was crucial. ‘‘At Washington and Lee,
the students come first,’’ said Wielgus, ‘‘and
in my own mind we should not have a pro-
gram that is demoralizing to our students.”’

Oddly, it was Pirro, former head coach
of W&L’s chief conference rival of the
future, who best expressed the hopes of all
involved in the decision when he suggested:
‘*This might be the best thing that ever hap-

pened to W&L.”’
W&L 11

30 Years of Freshmen

Some Observations on the Teaching of English

by Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’48

l A teachers of English collect anecdotes,
and at the time I began my teaching career
the story that every teacher of English com-
position knew was the one told about
William Lyon Phelps of Yale University,
who allegedly found this sentence in a stu-
dent essay: ‘‘The lady slipped on a rug and
fell prostitute on the floor.’’ Professor
Phelps is said to have written in the margin
this comment, which I imagine seems
hopelessly prim today: ‘‘Young man, you’re
old enough to know the difference between
a fallen woman and one who has merely lost
her balance.’’

That story has stuck in my mind because
it’s associated with the most memorable
sentence I’ve ever received on a paper. The
assignment was to write a description of
something, to use vigorous language and
specific detail, and to arouse the reader’s in-
terest early in the composition. When I began
reading one of the essays this immortal open-
ing line greeted me: ‘‘I walked into the bar
and over in one corner I could see whores,
harlots, and even prostitutes.”’

This was at Florida State University,
which had been Florida State College for
Women. There I had the opposite experience
from my experience this year, for it had been
a well-established women’s institution which
was becoming coeducational. One of the ear-
ly assignments in the basic English course
was to deal with some problem related to this
transition, and one of my students wrote a
paper with this singular title: ‘‘Intersexual
Swimming Meets.’’ That intriguing word was
not in my vocabulary, and so I turned eagerly
to the essay for an explanation. ‘‘The prob-
lem with intersexual swimming meets,’’ it
began, ‘‘is that the boys soon outstrip the
girls.”’

Over the years you collect all kinds of
stories, and in any set of papers you can ex-
pect various misspellings and malapropisms.
The Prince of Wales is often ‘‘the Prince of
Whales,’’ Satan appears in Paradise Lost as

— **Satin,’’ Tennyson’s Jn Memoriam is

Sidney M. B. Coulling is S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of English and head of the English depart- transformed into In Memorandum, and, of

ment. He presented these informal remarks on 30 years of teaching freshman English during Alumni

Reunion weekend as part of a series of forums, which also included presentations on foreign language “gy are

instruction as well as a session in the School of Law on tax reform. Immortality’’ becomes “‘Imitations of Im-
morality.”’

Sometimes you get a complete rewriting

of history or theology. One student, for ex-

 

course, Wordsworth’s ‘‘Ode: Intimations of

12) W&L

 

ample, identified the Trinity as Mary,
Joseph, and the baby Jesus. Occasionally
there are inspired misspellings, as in the
remark by one student that it is women’s du-
ty to ‘‘bare’’ children. And I suppose my all-
time favorite is the radical revision of in-
tellectual history by a student who defined
the Darwinian hypothesis as ‘‘the survival of
the fetus.”’

I’ve now been teaching English for more
than three decades, and over the years I’ve
observed a number of changes. I have
isolated nine that I believe have occurred
since I began teaching freshman composition
in 1949.

I think everyone in the profession would
agree that the first and most decisive change
has been effected by television, which has
contributed significantly to the poor writing
of students. Television is visual; it encourages
the viewer to be a passive recipient rather
than an active participant; and it has lured
students away from reading, from writing,
from the exercise of the mind in a precise,
systematic, and disciplined fashion. It is an
entirely different kind of communication
from that of the written word, which,
especially in imaginative literature, demands
an emotional and intellectual response of
considerable complexity; and so it has had
a formidable and largely harmful impact on
the reading and writing skills of today’s
students.

A second change has resulted from the
greatly expanded use of the telephone, which
for many of us has made writing an infre-
quent daily activity and therefore an increas-
ingly artificial one. In 20th-century America
we don’t normally make writing to friends
or relatives a part of our everyday routine;
we pick up the telephone instead. Think, by
contrast, of our counterparts a century ago,
or even of your own experiences at summer
camp or boarding school, where you were
required to write to your parents at specified
intervals. The telephone has now replaced the
letter as the primary means of communica-
tion, and it’s interesting to speculate how
social historians will proceed in the 21st cen-
tury. Where will they find the sort of infor-
mation that fills the archives of our Univer-
sity Library and enables us to write histories
of the 19th century? Parents often used to
say to me, ‘‘I certainly hope you’re going to
teach Johnny how to write. His letters to us
are just awful.’’ I don’t hear that much
anymore, not because the writing has im-
proved, but simply because there are no let-
ters to provide incriminating evidence.

A third and very significant change has
come about in reading habits. In essence,
students no longer read as much as they once
did, for the obvious reason that they seek

 

recreation and entertainment elsewhere.

Whereas persons of my and your generations
frequently spent evenings and even entire
weekends alone, absorbed in a_ book,
students today prefer to turn on television
or the stereo. This is why many of them have
had relatively little practice working with the
written word. We increase our command of
the English language by reading, by using the
dictionary, by wrestling with difficult texts.
Present-day students have done far too lit-
tle of this, and as a result they are
characteristically impoverished in their
vocabularies and limited in the verbal
resources upon which they can draw.

This problem has been exacerbated by a
fourth development, which I call the new in-
articulateness, a form of communication
consisting solely of grunts, epithets, and
monosyllables. A typical response to, say,
Macbeth might be something like the follow-
ing: ‘‘Gee whiz, that’s a neat play. Yeah,
man, Shakespeare’s a really coo/ guy.’’ Here,
in a bizarre mingling of George Bush, the
senior high student, and the urban ghetto,
we have the notion that a few grunts and
cliches provide intelligible communication.
But they clearly do not, for what we hear is
not explanation but exclamation. One who
hears enough of this sort of thing, however,
is encouraged to think that the only skill in
communication necessary to get through life
is the ability to say, ‘‘Have a nice day,”’ or
ask, ‘‘Know what I mean?”’

The problem has in turn been intensified
by what I would call a fifth development, one
in usage. It’s the linguistic counterpart to the
highway sign outside a restaurant that reads,
‘‘Come as you are.”’ It’s a kind of informali-
ty in which usage seems to make no dif-
ference whatsoever, in which subjects don’t
agree with verbs and cases are promiscuously
confused. I constantly discover in the work
of even the most reputable writers an increas-
ingly slipshod, come-as-you-are attitude,
especially in matters of diction, as they blur
the essential distinctions between words such
as ‘‘disinterested’’ and ‘‘uninterested,”’
‘‘precipitous’’ and ‘‘precipitate,’’ ‘‘flout’’
and ‘‘flaunt.’’ The question of whether to
use ‘‘who’’ or ‘‘whom’’ is now quite beyond
the capacity of many writers to answer cor-
rectly, and in some highly respected journals
are constructions that any careful teacher of
composition would mark ‘‘unacceptable.”’

Now everything is acceptable, and where
anything and everything is allowed there can
obviously be no standards. In the dark of the
night all cows are gray.

Teachers in high school and preparatory
schools don’t quite know what to make of
all this, and therefore, with great reluctance,
I must make them a sixth cause of the prob-
lem. Although I have great sympathy for
these teachers, who are often required to
carry impossibly heavy loads, I must say that
at Washington and Lee we have to undo
much of what they have done. They fre-
quently emphasize trivia, for example, and
instead of encouraging students to write im-
aginatively, naturally, and simply, they im-
pose upon them artificial prohibitions which
they have no authority at all to impose, pro-
hibitions such as ‘‘you may never begin a
sentence with a conjunction,’’ a rule
repeatedly violated by the finest stylists in the
language, or ‘‘you must never use the
second- person pronoun,’’ a restriction that
forces the writer into stiffness and artificiali-
ty. And preoccupied as they are with negative
concerns, these same teachers allow far more
important matters, like style, and logic, and
substance, to escape notice. Our challenge
at W&L, therefore, is to persuade the stu-
dent that there are only two rules in ex-
pository writing, at least from my point of
view. The first is to have something to say,
and the second is to say it as clearly, as direct-
ly, and as effectively as possible.

A seventh cause of the decline in writing,
perhaps the most fundamental of all, is the
disappearance of Latin, the study of which
was once the means of understanding the
basic principles of our own language. Today,
however, the structure of the English
sentence and the traditional grammatical
terms designating its parts are an inscrutable
mystery to many students. For example,
when a colleague of mine once received a
paper entitled ‘‘The Most Unforgettable
Character I Ever Met,’’ he underlined
‘‘met,’’ and in the margin wrote ‘‘Tense?,’’
meaning, ‘‘Do you really want the past tense,
or do you intend the perfect tense (‘have
met’)?’’ The paper came back, duly cor-
rected, and on his revision sheet, next to
‘*Tense?,’’ the student had written, ‘“You bet
I was tense. This was the first paper I had
written in college.’’ Or an example from this
past fall, when I asked a student in a com-
position class about the mood of a particular
verb and was answered, ‘‘Oh, it’s a very
melancholy mood.’’ The distinction between
an independent and a dependent clause, or
between the active and the passive voice, or
between certain parts of speech has become
for some students as incomprehensible as the
most recondite theory in astrophysics.

W&L 13

 

An eighth cause, in some indefinable
way, is the legacy of Vietnam. This is a very
complex matter, and I don’t have the data
to support what I’m about to say. But I do
know that among post-Vietnam students
there has often been a lack of motivation and
a vague skepticism about the entire enterprise
of education, a sense that nothing really has
any kind of authority, or that language can
be misleading or fraudulent and therefore the
whole process of writing is dishonest. To-
day’s students have come to take a practical,
pragmatic attitude toward writing, but like
their immediate predecessors they continue
to think of it as an artificial exercise. ‘‘What
do you want me to Say in this paper?’’ some
of the frankest will ask me, as if their only
objective in writing the essay is to satisfy my
whims. Their view is, ‘‘I’ll give you anything
you ask for; I just want to pass this course
and get my three credits.’’ The idea that
writing expresses the entire being, that it
demands hard work and disciplined think-
ing, seems completely foreign to them. One
of the signs of our times has been the disap-
pearance in student compositions of the
verbs ‘‘think’’ and ‘‘believe,’’ replaced by the
all-purpose ‘‘feel,’’ as if writing has nothing
to do with the cognitive, rational, and in-
tellectual, but is altogether visceral.

The ninth cause is possibly the most
serious of all. It is a matter of central con-
cern nationally and an almost weekly feature
in The Chronicle of Higher Education. Call-
ed by a variety of phrases, it may be thought
of as the discontinuity in our culture. Put
simply and practically, this means there is an
immense gulf between students today and,
I?ll rather arbitrarily say, students of the
1960s, when those of us who teach in Payne
Hall think we peaked at Washington and
Lee. Then we had some 240 students taking
the survey of English literature from Beowulf
to the present. Today, we’re lucky if we can
attract 35. Indeed, we’re fortunate if we can
find a single work that every student has
read—any work, such as Salinger’s Catcher
in the Rye, which everyone a generation ago
had read, or Golding’s Lord of the Flies.
And when we turn from the modern best-
seller to the major works of our heritage,
notably the Bible, the results are still more
distressing. If in class I ask about the prod-
igal son I may be told something resembling
the parable of the talents, and although
Adam and Eve are still recognizable names,
they’re followed by a great cast of
unknowns. Now these are intelligent students
of whom I’m speaking. They can take apart
the most complicated automobile engine,
clean its parts, and put it back together, and
they have knowledge of many things quite
beyond my ken. But things that I grew up
14 W&L

with, things that have been passed from one
generation to the next, are not the things that
the current student generation knows or
believes or thinks about, and that is a mat-
ter of the gravest concern to people who
teach English. For our language and our
literature are inseparable, and when we lose
knowledge of the one we also lose knowledge
of the. other.

But I don’t wish to end on this bleak
note. This is alumni weekend, so let me give
you something that might be cause for cheer.
With us this morning are three persons who
were members of the faculty and administra-
tion when I was a student [Magruder Drake,
James Price, and James Leyburn], and there
is also someone [Fielder Cook] who graded
my test papers when I was taking a course
under Fitz Flournoy. So I have mentors in
the audience, and I’m humbled by that
realization, for I know how much harder
some of them worked than we do today. The
standard teaching load then was five courses,
15 hours a week. It is now three classes, or
nine hours. When I joined the English facul-
ty in 1956 it was four classes, or 12 hours,
but I had 75 students in my three basic com-
position classes. Now we limit composition
classes for every member of the staff to one
class of 15 students, not 75, and consequently
my colleagues and I are able to work very
closely with each of the students. They have
been hand-picked on the basis of entrance
tests and other information we have, and
they’re given a kind of total immersion
course, with frequent conferences in which
we go Over with them paper after paper. It

 

is the best course that money can buy, and
it’s extremely time-consuming; in a single
conference I spend more time with a student
than I spent with the entire faculty as an
undergraduate.

It is rewarding work, however, and if I
may end on a personal note I might tell you
that last fall I devoted a considerable amount
of time to one of our freshmen, a young man
who has not been as well prepared in English
as one would have wished, but who is very
diligent and serious about his work. Each
week we had a conference, usually of an
hour’s length, and I derived great satisfac-
tion from learning, only a few days ago, that
in helping him I had in a sense been paying
an old debt of my own. This freshman is the
great-grandson of one of my boyhood idols,
a hero whose autograph has been in my
scrapbook for more than half a century. He
is the great-grandson of Tom Mix, and in
helping him I had been repaying his great-
grandfather, the first of the Hollywood
cowboys who commanded my attention
every Saturday afternoon, for all the pleasure
he had given me as a boy.

There is thus continuity at Washington
and Lee, and in ways more direct and rele-
vant than the example I’ve just cited. This
year, for example, I’ve enjoyed becoming ac-
quainted with a fourth-generation student.
A great-grandfather received his law degree
from Washington and Lee, and both a
grandfather and the father their bachelor’s
degrees from the University. This long family
tradition is now being continued by a fine
young woman.

    

BROWN ©

 

cr iF... 9 }
Bare Pai ag R Brown Pup

i 3 t( Ww N I ) > Sie rN &

The Browns—Scott, ’74; Earle, ’44; Jeb, ’69—in front of the entrance to the Earle Palmer Brown Companies’ Bethesda, Md., headquarters

The Big Boys

W&L Family Moves Earle Palmer Brown Companies Forward

ETHESDA, Md.—A crisis has the Earle
Palmer Brown Companies in an uproar on
this June morning. It’s Friday, and the
donuts are late.

All four floors of the brick building that
fronts a busy thoroughfare in this
Washington suburb are crammed full of
creative people. And creative people need to
eat, too, it seems.

As they flit in and out of meetings, pro-
ducing the routine flurry of activity this
morning, the writers and the artists, the
marketing specialists and the direct mail
designers, all keep a sharp ear out for the
code words that signal the donuts’ arrival.

Finally, 10 enormous boxes of donuts ap-
pear. The 165 employees can give full atten-
tion to the jobs at hand—making consumers
aware of the new breakfast bar at the Roy
Rogers’ restaurants, for instance. Or letting
the country’s squash players know that AMF
Head makes racquets for them and not just
for tennis players. Or finding the perfect
combination of words to remind District of
Columbia drivers of the new seat belt law.
(How does ‘‘Click it or ticket’’ sound?)

It wasn’t always this way, of course.

When Earle Palmer Brown, ’44, opened

by Jeffery G. Hanna

 

his public relations agency in a room in
Washington’s Statler Hotel in 1952, he did
not have a standing order for 10 huge boxes
of donuts every Friday morning. Back then,
two would have done it. Not two boxes. Two
donuts.

‘‘When I started, the company was me
and a secretary half a day,’’ recalls Brown.

That was before Earle Brown assented to
a couple of clients who had proposed that
he handle their advertising in addition to
their PR.

And that was before Earle’s son, Jeremy
(Jeb) Brown, ’69, took a test drive in a new
car instead of an audition at Yale Drama
School.

And that was before Earle Palmer Brown
and Associates, a singular, became the Earle
Palmer Brown Companies, a plural.

And that was before Jeb Brown resign-
ed one of the company’s major accounts.

And that was before the great Big Boy
controversy of 1985.

Once, not more than a decade ago, Earle
Palmer Brown’s was a medium-sized
Washington agency with a solid reputation.
In 1976, the company had about 20
employees and annual billings of $4 million.

Today the company has more than 220
employees. It has five separate and distinct
divisions. It has offices in Philadelphia,
Richmond, and Baltimore in addition to the
home office in Bethesda. And its total bill-
ings for 1985 were $103.6 million.

W&L = 15

 

The story of the meteoric rise of the Earle
Palmer Brown Companies, or EPB in in-
dustry shorthand, into one of the premiere
communications firms around is actually
several stories. It is the story of a family
business (in addition to Earle and Jeb, three
of Earle’s other children—son Scott, ’74, and
daughters Misty and Allison—all work in the
business as do Jeb’s father-in-law and sister-
in-law). It is the story of the transformation
of an industry. And it is the story of how
a liberal arts education can prepare people
for, well, for just about anything.

T ese stories all begin with Earle Palmer
Brown, who chose Washington and Lee over
the University of Virginia back in 1940
because of W&L’s journalism department.

‘*‘When I went to Washington and Lee,
there were only a handful of journalism
schools in the country,’’ Earle explains. ‘‘It
was not a very big department, but there
were some people there when I was whose
names are fairly recognizable—Fielder Cook,
who’s a Hollywood producer; Charlie Rowe,
who is co-publisher of the Fredericksburg,
Va., newspaper; Ed Jackson, who is now
with Time magazine; Al Darby, who is city
editor of the Cumberland, Md., newspaper;
Johnny Sorrells, who is with The Commer-
cial Appeal in Memphis.’’

In between his journalism courses with
O.W. Riegel and Bob Hodges, Brown serv-
ed as student manager of the University’s
news bureau. For 50 cents an hour, he churn-
ed out hometown news releases and placed
feature stories. It proved an invaluable ex-
perience. After a stint in the Navy and with
the Richmond News Leader and a few other
journalism jobs, Brown opened his PR firm
in Washington.

**My first client was the Statler Hotel. As
part of the fee, the hotel gave me a room for
an office,’’ he says. ‘‘PR was an emerging
discipline then. Actually, what I was doing
when I started my business was pretty much
the same thing I had done at W&L—sending
out hometown releases, contacting papers
about doing features, covering the out-of-
town sports teams that came to Washington.

*‘Basically PR was about two steps above
being a press agent. It hadn’t yet moved in-
to the sophistication of consumer relations,
stockholder relations, employee relations,
and all the rest. It was just beginning to move
in that direction.’’

Concentrating solely on public relations,
the firm grew slowly and steadily over the
next five years or so until one of the PR
clients asked Brown whether he wouldn’t
consider making commercials, too.

‘‘Advertising was a different animal back
then,’’ Brown says. ‘‘We would do a televi-

16 W&L

‘*4A lot of what happened to this company was luck.’’

sion commercial for, say, the Washington
Post by putting a few slides together and
maybe hiring talent. We’d do the entire thing
for maybe $800 or $900.’’

Still, it was advertising. The Earle Palmer
Brown agency had diversified. That was but
a small hint of what was to come.

**A lot of what happened to this company
was luck. We did a good job for some clients,
and they recommended us to others. And we
grew. And then I got into politics. I did all
of (Maryland representative) Mac Mathias’
campaigns when he started running for Con-
gress. And I had been doing work for
Rosecroft Raceway (a Maryland harness rac-
ing track). We were doing a lot of different
things. In the course of 15 years or so, we
had built up to about 15 or 20 people doing
about $3 million worth of business.’’

Then one evening Earle pulled into the
driveway in a new Ford Mustang.

J eb Brown had followed his father to
Washington and Lee. And while he had
taken courses in journalism and business,
harboring thoughts of the family business
somewhere in the back of his mind, Jeb’s
passion was the stage.

Jeb majored in fine arts with an emphasis
in drama. He is still remembered for his por-
trayal of Becket on the University Theatre
stage. An unusual set of circumstances made

the performance particularly memorable.

The play completed its four-performance run
on a Friday night, rather than the customary
Saturday night closing. That scheduling
change enabled Jeb to catch a plane Satur-

—Earle Palmer Brown, ’44

 

day morning for Memphis where he played
flanker back for the Generals’ football team
against Southwestern of Memphis Saturday
afternoon.

When he left W&L, Jeb was headed for
the stage or the screen. ‘‘I was either going
to become an actor or a film writer,’’ he says.

Then his father showed up with the Ford
Mustang.

‘“*T had gotten out of the Army and was
at home waiting to go up to Yale where Lee
Kahn (late head of W&L’s drama division)
had arranged for me to have an audition to
get into Yale Drama School,’’ Jeb says.

‘**Rarle brought the car home and I ask-
ed him what it was. He said, ‘Why don’t you
go drive it?’ So I drove it. And he said, ‘You
can have that car.’ I said, ‘What do I have
to do?’ And he said, ‘Well, one of my ac-
count executives quit today, so why don’t
you go to work at the agency for a while?’
So I did.”’

And within a few months, Jeb was head-
ed not to Yale Drama School but to Harvard
Business School. He earned his M.B.A. and
went to work in advertising—but not with
his father’s company. Instead, he joined Leo
Burnette and Company, a Chicago-based
agency that is among the nation’s biggest.

**At that point EPB was a real small com-
pany. I wanted to go to work for a real big
agency and see how they did it,’’ says Jeb.
**T knew it was a ‘possible’ I would come
back here. It wasn’t a definite, but it was a
possibility.”’

In 1976, Jeb Brown became president of
the Earle Palmer Brown Companies. He had

 

seen what life was like in the big agencies.
He had a plan that, if it succeeded, would
take EPB to those heights.

Jeb and Earle divided the agency into
four companies—Public Relations, Adver-
tising, Design and Promotion, and Direct
Marketing. Later, a fifth company, Sales
Promotion, was added.

‘“You have to have a vision of what
you’ re trying to accomplish,’’ Jeb explains.
‘**And I guess you have to be lucky. You have
to be lucky in terms of having something to
start with. We had that—a good base, a good
reputation. And you have to be lucky in hir-
ing the right people.’’

Perhaps the pivotal point in the rise of
EPB under Jeb’s leadership came six years
after he was named president. Whether it was
a function of the vision or plain old good
luck or a combination of the two is uncer-
tain. The company had been doing well
enough, all right. It had moved from the
medium-sized range to a spot among
Washington’s biggest agencies. But there was
trouble brewing. It involved one of EPB’s
most prestigious accounts, The Washington
Post.

‘It was,’’ Jeb explains, ‘‘a matter of the
chemistry between our people and the con-
tacts there at The Post. It had become real-
ly difficult for people to work together.’’

So in October 1982, after lots of soul-
searching, Jeb Brown resigned The Post ac-
count. It was not an easy decision to make.
In retrospect, it was the best decision.

‘*Resigning The Post account may have
been a turning point or it may have been
coincident with some good things that hap-
pened for us, I’m not certain,’’ says Jeb.
‘*But it was sort of like cutting our roots to
the past, psychologically cutting the um-
bilical cord to the agency as it had been.’’

Too, that decision, and the fact that it
was Jeb’s to make, provides an insight into
what has made this family business prosper.

Earle Brown says his friends in the adver-
tising business are envious of the way in
which his son has followed his father. He
says his friends complain that it has never
worked that way for them.

The key, Earle says of such intrafamily
succession, is in letting the next generation
take over as soon as its members are ready.
‘*But,’’ he adds, ‘‘you have to be sure that
you have enough interests and things of your
own that you aren’t looking over their
shoulders all the time.”’

Once Jeb came along, Earle was more
than willing to let go. He was involved with
the Rosecroft Raceway, where he was presi-
dent, and was active in political campaigns.
Now he’s preoccupied with a new EPB ac-
quisition that buys advertising time for

‘Uf there had been a tug-of-war, I wouldn’t have come back.’’

—Jeb Brown, ’69

 

political candidates. He was not about to
engage in second-guessing his son.

Jeb, too, recognized that such transitions
in which control shifts from father to son are
not always successful, let alone smooth.

‘‘Unlike most father and son situations

where there is a tug-of-war, there wasn’t any |

tug-of-war here because Earle very much
wanted to turn over the day-to-day opera-
tions to me,’’ Jeb says. ‘‘If there had been
a tug-of-war, I wouldn’t have come back.

‘*T think we’re one of the few really suc-
cessful father and son teams in the business.
A large part of the credit goes to Earle for
having the confidence in me to let me make
my own mistakes and not yank the reins out
of my hands when I screwed up, which I did
frequently.’’

The result has been that there is no doubt
in anyone’s mind about who is in charge. As
Scott Brown, who has worked in various
capacities at EPB over the past four years,
puts it: ‘‘I’m not certain it’s accurate to call
this a ‘family business.’ It’s really Jeb’s
business.”’

qe transition in power at the Earle
Palmer Brown Companies coincided with
some basic changes in the way such firms
work these days. EPB is not an advertising
agency. And it is not a public relations firm.

And it is not a direct mail consultant. It is
all of these. And it is more.

One of the things that Jeb Brown
recognized early on was that companies were
beginning to use a variety of methods to get
their message across. Buying a 30-second TV
spot or a full-page newspaper advertisement
was no longer seen as the only effective tool.
So EPB moved from singular to plural and
adopted what Jeb Brown has called ‘‘a
multifaceted, multidisciplinary communica-
tions group.’’

Brown uses Benjamin Franklin to explain
the concept.

‘*Benjamin Franklin at the Continental
Congress presented the notion that ‘we can
all hang together, or we can all hang
separately.’ The same thing goes with com-
munications disciplines,’’ Jeb explains.
‘*They are much more effective when you use
them in tandem in an integrated program
than if you’ve got an advertising program
over here and a PR program over there and
a direct marketing program over there, which
is probably the way most companies do it
still, although I think that is changing.

‘*The advantage that we offer is that we
can take all those different disciplines and
integrate them into one total program.”’

A case in point—and one of EPB’s ma-
jor successes—was the great debate over the

W&L 17

 

* used to think an ad was good if it was entertaining. ’’

 

fate of Big Boy, that chubby, checker-
coveralled symbol of the national restaurant
chain owned by Marriott.

Blending the advertising, the public rela-
tions, promotions, and the market research,
EPB launched a controversy over whether
the 49-year-old Big Boy should live to see 50
or should be replaced with a new, more up-
to-date symbol of the family restaurants.

In addition to the TV spots in which Big
Boy’s chairman wrestled with the question
and the newspaper ads asking readers
whether Big Boy should stay or go, the cam-
paign gathered momentum through the
public relations and promotions ends that
translated into feature stories in the major
news magazines and newspapers. The debate
was a topic on the Johnny Carson Show and
Saturday Night Live.

Jeb estimates that the controversy
generated $8 million of national publicity.
Almost four million Big Boy patrons par-
ticipated in the EPB promotion by casting
stay-or-go ballots at the restaurants.

In the end, the vote was overwhelming.
Big Boy stayed. The folks at EPB were not
surprised.

‘We had done some research and knew
that there would be a very strong desire to
keep him,’’ Jeb Brown says. ‘‘But the cam-
paign was to get awareness for the chain and
to create a sense of fun. It did more than
spending money on TV spots or newspaper
ads promoting a new salad bar.’’

The campaign gained increased exposure
for EPB, too. The firm won several creative
awards. And when Marriott began looking

18 W&L

 

—Scott Brown, ’74

Z

for an agency to handle its account for the
Roy Rogers restaurants, EPB got the job.

Its diversity allows EPB to approach
potential clients a bit differently. Once a
client explains its needs, EPB can respond
in a variety of ways.

‘Because we can offer a client a complete
range of services,’’ explains Scott Brown,
‘‘we’re not prejudiced by the prospect that
if we tell that client that he needs PR, then
we’re going to lose him to a PR company.
Or we don’t tell a client not to do direct mail
because we don’t do that.”’

EPB operates under what Jeb Brown
calls the ‘‘hybrid matrix system.’’ In that
system a ‘‘quarterback’’ from one of the
company’s five divisions is assigned to each
account and directs the project, all the while
interacting with the other divisions. A PR
specialist, for instance, could be the ac-
count’s quarterback, but that person would
call on the advertising people or the direct
mail people or the sales promotion people
depending upon what is necessary for the
campaign.

‘*There are a few of our clients who will
use all the disciplines that we offer, and those
are the kind we like,’’ says Earle Brown.
**But most of our clients will use one or two
or three. It’s like the menu at a Chinese
restaurant—one from column A, two from
column B.”’

Of course, the bottom line is that it is the
client’s money to spend and the client’s deci-
sion how to spend that money. ‘‘We had a
case not long ago where a friend of mine
came in, and he had a very esoteric service

with a total market of probably 500 people
in the whole country,’’ Earle Brown says.
‘‘He wanted to be on television. I told him
that I didn’t think he really wanted to do TV,
but he insisted that he did, so I sent him to
an agency that does TV.

‘‘About two weeks later he came back
and asked why I wouldn’t take his money.
I explained that because he had such a
limited number of people to reach the way
to do that was through direct mail and
telemarketing where you can target exactly
your audience. When you go out there on
TV, 99 percent of the people who see your
commercials couldn’t buy your product or
service if they wanted to.

**So my friend thought about that for a
while, and he went on television.’’

You win a few and lose a few.

W arster defines advertising as ‘‘the ac-
tion of calling something to the attention of
the public.’’ That does not go far enough,
really, because advertising, if it is successful,
must create a strong enough impression that
will cause a consumer to distinguish between
One product or service and the many others
that are similar, if not identical, to it.

Jeb Brown’s definition is simpler, if ad-
mittedly a bit biased. He considers advertis-
ing ‘‘the grease that makes the economy
function.”’

Whatever its definition, advertising is
pervasive these days. It is ingrained in the
culture. From the quaint Burma Shave signs
along rural roadsides to the multimillion
campaigns in which Mr. Whipple squeezes
Charmin and Michael Jackson sings for Pep-
Si, advertising is omnipresent. It has even
changed our lexicon to the extent that a
presidential candidate asks ‘‘Where’s the
beef?’’ (‘‘I know that Tom Riegel would hate
the way that has happened,’’ Earle Brown
confesses.)

In the process of accomplishing all this,
advertising and advertisers have often come
under fire. The verbs are familiar: advertis-
ing deceives. Or manipulates. Or—and this
may be the most common of all—advertising
*‘makes people buy things they don’t need.”’

From a perspective prejudiced by 30
years in the business, Earle Brown argues
that such a claim represents a gross
underestimation of the public’s ability to sort
through the messages with which we are now
bombarded.

‘I think bad advertising gets laughed

’ he says.

Then he reaches into his desk drawer and
pulls out a calculator. ‘‘This is an example
of what advertising can do,’’ he says. ‘‘You
can buy something like this for about $14.
Ten years ago, this would have cost $114.

 

Without advertising, it would still be selling
for that price. Sure, it’s an oversimplifica-
tion, but that is certainly one of the benefits
of advertising.’’

From his vantage point, Jeb Brown
believes that there is less ‘‘bad’’ advertising
now than there ever has been. There may,
he admits, be a lot of mediocre advertising,
but even it serves a valid purpose.

‘*Those who would argue that advertis-
ing makes people buy things they don’t need
have adopted a cynical, puritanical, and
completely misinformed point of view,’’ Jeb
says. “‘If you don’t have advertising, you
don’t have a free market place. It is a form
of commercial competition and provides an
impetus for people to make their products
or services better and to offer the consumer
better values or better deals or better prod-
ucts.”’

Certainly the art of advertising has
undergone a major revolution since the days
when Earle Brown would put together a few
slides and hire an actor to narrate a commer-
cial for The Washington Post. For one thing,
the cost of such commercials has escalated
dramatically. According to Jeb Brown, the
average cost of a good 30-second television
commercial is between $75,000 and
$125,000. That is the production cost, mind
you. To put that commercial on the air dur-
ing a prime time network telecast will cost
an average of $75,000; to put the same com-
mercial on during the Super Bowl telecast
could be $500,000 or more.

‘For that reason you don’t use television
frivolously,’’ says Jeb. ‘‘It has to be a very
single-minded message that is extremely im-
portant. Television has become more a tac-
tical medium, and less a strategic one.”’

Yet, advertising today has become reliant
to a large extent on visual imagery. ‘‘Since
the bulk of the population grew up with
television and gets most of its information
from television, we are becoming increasing-
ly a visual oriented society,’’ says Jeb. ‘‘That
is one thing that has changed.

‘‘The other thing that has changed is that
the consumer’s choices have multiplied
dramatically, and the complexity of life is
greater so that consumers don’t have as
much time to worry about every product
decision they make. It’s just not as impor-
tant to them.

‘‘Consequently, most purchase decisions
they make tend to be made maybe more
emotionally than rationally. Emotional deci-
sions also are a function of the fact that there
is more disposable income. If you’re living
on a marginal income and everything you
earn has to go into the necessities, you are
going to make much more rational decisions
and you do that on the basis of factual in-

 

WATCH HOME RUNS
INSTEAD OF RERUNS.

 

 

Home Team Sports brings you live, exclusive sports coverage
all summer long. Like 90 Orioles games, over 60 at home. Plus up
to neti eens ican league games, with the best teams racing for

‘oul also see the D.C National Bank Tennis Classic. Racing
kes. Boxing. Auto racing,

ost.
There's even Home Team Sportsbeat, a call-in show where you

 

 

‘* . . the consumer’s
choices have multiplied
dramatically, and the
complexity of life is
greater so that consumers
don’t have as much time
to worry about every
product decision they

 

 

o "Yay you ook at, Home am Sports bets watching rerun NS. make. 7
Call your cable operator today to subscribe.
formation. If you have a lot of disposable ‘‘One of the beauties of this

income, and your purchases are made to
reflect your self-image or on the basis of fill-
ing emotional needs, then your purchase
needs are going to be made not as rationally
and more in a way that satisfies your own
personal, emotional needs.”’

That is reflected in the way many of to-
day’s advertisements create a mood—a far
cry from the days when a talking head would
tout the advantages of a product with slides
in the background.

Actually, of course, that is a vast over-
simplification. Today’s advertising runs the
gamut, depending upon its purpose.

‘“When I was a little kid, I always
thought I knew what was good advertising
and what was bad advertising,’’ says Scott.
‘*My idea of what is good is a whole lot dif-
ferent now. I used to think an ad was good
if it was entertaining. Now what I think is
good depends upon what you’re trying to do
with your advertising—for instance, whether
you’ re trying to establish name identity, on
the one hand, or reinforce name identity, on
the other. It’s certainly not as simple as I
once thought it was.”’

Wien he left Washington and Lee for
the Navy (finishing his degree requirements
at the University of Richmond and North-
western), Earle Palmer Brown was planning
a career in journalism. About a quarter cen-
tury later, Jeb left Lexington with designs on
the stage. And five years after Jeb, Scott
graduated with a double major in geology
and journalism and plans to avoid becom-
ing part of the ‘‘corporate establishment.”’

Yet, here are the three of them, making
their own distinct contributions to the suc-
cess story that has become Earle Palmer
Brown Companies.

At first glance, it seems an odd fit. Then
again, maybe not.

business,’’Earle says, ‘‘is that I know a hell
of a lot about a lot of different things. I’m
not an expert in anything, but I know
something about the real estate business, the
food service business, the broadcasting
business, because I’ve been involved with
those clients over the years.

‘*T think it’s important that I know a lit-
tle bit about philosophy and political science
and economics and sociology. A broad
liberal arts education is a better background,
in my opinion, than taking only advertising
courses or only journalism courses.”’

And how has a man who once aspired to
Broadway translated those aspirations into
his current life as the guiding force behind
the growing communications empire?

‘‘My background in drama has definite-
ly informed what I’m doing now,”’ says Jeb.
‘*T am basically a business person, but I am
involved in the creative side of the work
when it’s appropriate for me to be involved.

‘‘Our objective is to do better and better
creative work. I guess I get the greatest
satisfaction out of doing terrific work, ter-
rific advertising, so in that sense my creative
background is reflected in what we do. I

don’t think I’d be happy in a business where

the product is not creativity and new ideas
and new ways of doing things. I would find
it hard to work in an environment where
there is not a lot of ferment. Certainly there
is a lot more going on in this building than
in many businesses.

‘*It’s hard work. It’s taxing. This is not
the sort of business where people just show
up for work and punch a time clock and go
through the motions. It is a business that is
populated largely by younger people who are
creative, who are interested in ideas, and that
makes it different. Most of all it makes it
more fun.’’

Even when the donuts are late.

W&L 19

 

 

 

 

 

A Different Angle

 

Making the Marketplace Come to Life for Students

 

 

 

by Brian D. Shaw

Boats Lamont is one of those rare people whose avocation is
an extension of his vocation. Ask him how he spends his free time
away from Washington and Lee’s School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics, and he offers a one-word reply: ‘‘fishing.”’
Actually, it would be more precise to use two words: ‘‘fly fishing.”’

To say Lamont is an avid fly fisherman does not give justice
to his ardor for the sport.

Like many fly fishermen, Lamont ties his own flies, both wet
and dry. He also uses fiberglass and graphite to build his own rods.
Each summer he hooks up with his fishing buddy of 16 years to
test the waters of trout-laden streams in Montana, where the fish
range in length from 12 to 25 inches.

During the academic year he manages to keep his fishing skills
sharp in the streams around Virginia.

That represents the avocation. As for the vocation, Lamont
is a professor of administration whose specialty is marketing. Each
year he teaches two courses in that subject, ‘‘Principles of
Marketing’’ and ‘‘Marketing Management.’’ What could
marketing possibly have in common with fly fishing? The
similarities, says Lamont, are obvious. And then he proceeds to
make a case for that claim.

‘‘The river and the conditions you find in the area you are
fishing are never the same from day to day. That is not unlike the
marketplace in which businesspeople find themselves. Consumer
needs change, the economic environment changes, and you have
a competitive marketplace.

‘*In the world of fishing you are presenting the fly. In the world
of marketing you are presenting what the marketer calls a
‘marketing mix.’ In one case, the fly is being presented to the trout.

In the other, the product or idea is presented to the marketplace.
If they are right in either case, there is some favorable result. In
the one case, that can mean a big catch. In the other, it is success
when the customer’s need is satisfied and the cash register rings.

‘‘In each instance, there are certain fundamental tools used.
In fishing, these are the rod, the tackle, and the other equipment.
In marketing, the tools are the product, promotion, price, and
distribution. All of those things come together with an understand-
ing of the stream or the marketplace. The analogy is obvious.”’

1, the scope of disciplines and courses of study offered at
Washington and Lee, marketing is a relatively young field.
Although commerce was introduced into the W&L curriculum by
Robert E. Lee, marketing did not begin to emerge as a serious sub-
ject for study until the late 1920s. Since it is such a young field,
marketing theories and principles are still being refined and syn-
thesized. Lamont says the principles he teaches in his two courses
were developed in the 1960s, when many of the contemporary ideas
about marketing were formed.

‘*The real way to think about marketing is to think about the
needs of the market and then to translate those needs into an of-
fering the firm can make to meet the needs. The logic of that
concept—that marketing starts with the marketplace and then pro-
ceeds to make an offering to satisfy the needs—is a powerful in-
fluence on the practice of marketing.

‘‘For years, the approach was ‘Let’s make what is convenient
and what we think will be acceptable and offer it.” My approach
to teaching marketing is to start the course with the marketplace
and pursue that logic of the marketplace to the company and then

W&L 21

 

back to the marketplace.”’

To that end, Lamont concentrates the first part of his course
on learning about markets and the behavior of those markets. It
is here that the value of examining such a subject within a liberal
arts curriculum is particularly apparent.

‘“‘The economics the students have had in previous courses
comes into play,’ he says. ‘‘The psychology they’ve had comes
into play because it provides an understanding of behavior. The
sociology comes into play because it provides an understanding
of population and the movement of consumers. To a certain ex-
tent, anthropology is appropriate since an understanding of culture
and cultures is useful in thinking about
the kind of responses a firm would make
to a marketplace need.

““I counsel my students to take art
because it develops their perceptual
abilities. I counsel them to take drama
because it gives them a chance to become
individuals and express themselves. I
counsel them to take music because one
of the things a marketer does is listen. I
tell them to take public speaking because
they will have to be communicators. You
have to communicate your ideas in the marketplace. Marketing
really does draw on the liberal arts.’

The diverse background students bring to marketing carries over
into Lamont’s study of market segmentation. A market that—at
first glance—seems to be diverse in terms of its needs and behavior
can often be segmented into smaller markets where the needs are
similar.

“‘The most successful experiences in business have been to of-
fer products to individual segments of a market,’’ Lamont says.
“‘The college youth market would be a good example of that. It
is a subset of the total market in which the needs are similar.’’

Market segmentation is like slicing a pie into smaller and smaller
pieces until the perfect piece is found. Sometimes, Lamont says,
those pieces get extremely small and the slicing process gets ex-
tremely sophisticated.

*‘A subset of the market may be characterized by a certain
lifestyle: the urban consumer, for example, or the working woman.
The basic idea is to find a subset of that market where the needs
are similar and then make an offering to that segment of the
market, if it is attractive enough in terms of its profitability.’’

To acquaint his students with the marketplace and the seem-
ingly endless market segments, Lamont first must ‘‘awaken them
as consumers.”’

“They go out to the supermarket and buy a loaf of bread or
a head of lettuce or a six-pack of their favorite soft drink, and
they tend not to look around or really be aware of why things are
the way they are in that particular business. I tell them to go out
and spend some time shopping and observing the practice of
marketing. I use case studies that are actual marketing situations
where they can begin to see what happens and how a firm responds.

“*The whole idea,’’ Lamont says, ‘‘is to get them thinking about
what they are observing and then tie those observations back, if
they can, to some of the principles of marketing, economics,
sociology, psychology, etc. Marketing is not a subject in which
you simply read a textbook and get an understanding of the prin-
ciples. It is a subject in which you have to work with the principles
and see many different situations because the key is the proper ap-
plication of the principles.”’

One area of marketing in which the application of the prin-
ciples varies with the market segment is advertising. Lamont strives
to impress upon his students the thinking and the underlying
22 W&L

 

philosophies that go into preparing all advertisements, even what
might appear to the students to be the most inane television
commercial.

‘“We begin to look at advertising from the standpoint of con-
sumer needs for information and look at some of the behavioral
science concepts that are actually being used in advertising,’’ he
says. ““Then, all of a sudden, they begin to look at advertising not
as something that happens every half hour on a television program
or every 15 minutes on the radio or something they glance over
in a magazine or newspaper.

“They begin to study these advertisements and actually look
for the principles being used in them.
They get to the point where they can ac-
tually look at a soft drink commercial and
identify what the target market is, what
it is about the product that is going to
motivate the consumer to try it. Or they
can look at the key points—at what the
company wants to impart to the target
market about the product. They can see
the application of social psychology in
that advertisement if that product is
presented in a social setting.”’

The marketing cycle then takes another turn, and the students
explore the various alternatives in the distribution of a product.

‘“Would it be better to distribute a product in a department
store or a discount store?’’ Lamont asks. ‘“To make that judg-
ment they again have to think about the target market. Who are
we trying to reach and where do they shop? Which of these two
types of stores would better reach our market and meet the needs?

“‘If you can expose students in these various ways to the same
subject, then some of it is going to rub off.”’

I, would be safe to say that marketing and the study of business
rubbed off on Larry Lamont. As a student at the University of
Michigan, his major was chemical engineering. With the demand
for technologically proficient graduates at a premium—thanks to
the considerable attention being given the space program—Lamont
knew his chemical engineering degree guaranteed him a job.

But even as he was taking the required science courses, Lamont
also enrolled in as many business courses as his schedule would
allow. He graduated with his degree in chemical engineering in 1961
and finished work on an M.B.A. at Michigan the following year.
He began working for Dow Corning in Midland, Mich., shortly
after that.

Combining his course work in chemical engineering with his
interest in business and marketing, Lamont worked in product
development, product management, and technical sales. Although
he enjoyed the work, Lamont, who characterizes himself as a ‘‘pret-
ty independent fellow,’’ wanted to run his own show.

“I wanted more of an intellectual challenge,’’ he says. ‘‘I
wanted freedom, time to think and time to reflect.”’

Enter academia.

In 1966 Lamont took a position as a research associate at the
Institute of Science and Technology at the University of Michigan.
He later became a teaching fellow in marketing at Michigan and
received his Ph.D. from Michigan in 1969. From there he went
to the University of Colorado as an assistant professor of
marketing.

At Colorado, Lamont did find the freedom he had sought. But
he soon discovered that teaching at a large public university can
have its drawbacks.

“In public universities, you do a lot of lecturing,’’ he says. ‘‘I
taught marketing classes that had 60 students. A class that large

 

nn hw _

 

 

 

is very difficult to teach. There was a very limited amount of writing
I could ask them to do because other demands were being put on
my time.’’

Lamont moved from Colorado to Lexington in 1974 when he
was named associate professor of administration at W&L, where
he finally found the blend of freedom and intellectual rigor he had
sought when he left the business world.

**T personally felt that I would be a more effective teacher in
a small classroom setting than in a large lecture hall. In a small
setting, such as Washington and Lee, you have the opportunity
several times in the term to reach every student,’’ says Lamont,
who was promoted to pro-
fessor in 1980. ‘‘That
enables the professor to get
a much better understanding
of the progress the class is
making and the problems in-
dividuals are having. In-
dividual students know that
you are interested in the
progress they are making.

‘*T have broadened and
refined my approach to
teaching marketing since
coming to W&L. I now have
more time to work with the
individual students and time
to ask them to do thinking
and reading and writing.
And they are capable of do-
ing that. We attract bright
students, and when you are
getting that kind of person in
your classes, it makes the job
a lot easier.

**The key at Washington
and Lee is motivation.
Motivating the students to
give you that little extra time
that might go to some other
outlet. It’s getting that en-
thusiasm and motivation
because, when they hook
that up with the good in-
tellectual abilities they have,
wonderful things can
happen.’’

The Honor System also
attracted Lamont to W&L.

    

 

As an undergraduate stu-
dent, he studied under an
honor system at the University of Michigan. He liked the qualities
such a system instills in students.

**Cheating is a serious problem in many universities. Universi-
ty administrations and faculties are almost unable to do anything
to control it,’’ he says. ‘‘Quite frankly, I don’t particularly enjoy
spending my time worrying about classroom cheating and
plagiarism.

**T like the character that an honor system develops in students,
the ability to think on their own and do things on their own, and
the confidence that results from being able to do that.”’’

Aiitthouh the principles of marketing remain basically the same,
the application of those principles will continue to change and

Lamont prepares for a fishing trip by

evolve. In an effort to keep abreast, or even ahead, of those
changes, Lamont continues to revise his approach to marketing.

‘*For the last several years, the structure of the economy has
been shifting from manufacturing to providing services,’’ Lamont
observes. ‘‘More and more, we are becoming a service-oriented
society.

‘‘The marketing of services has not been given the attention
it deserves. We are seeing the application of marketing principles
to hospitals and symphony orchestras. Textbooks on marketing
will have to continue to change to address the new emphasis on
service.”’

Lamont also points to
the explosion of computer
technology and telecom-
munications as having had
profound effects on
marketplace behavior and
the application of marketing
principles.

‘‘We will have to con-
tinue to incorporate com-
puters and telecommunica-
tions into our courses. We
will expect students to be
more comfortable with the
use of computers in gather-
ing and analyzing informa-
tion about the marketplace.
We will see more emphasis
on students learning by do-
ing, rather than reading the
textbook.”’

The key to marketing,
both now and in the future,
Lamont says, is finding the
proper application to the
situation, using the right
tools.

In that sense, Lamont’s
study of marketing clearly
has much in common with
the hours he spends on the
river. No matter how great
the fishing is one day, the
very next day could be com-
pletely different, and success
is primarily a matter of
adapting to those changing
circumstances.

These are just the kinds
of challenges that continue
to lure Lamont to the rivers and streams.

“‘Last September my friend and I were fishing on the Bighorn
River in Montana,”’ he says. ‘‘Over a four-day period we caught
about 180 trout in the 12- to 23-inch range. That was one of my
most memorable fishing experiences.’’

Although that kind of catch might keep some fishermen in trout
dinners for many months, Lamont threw all the fish back.

“*I fish for the action,’’ he says. ‘‘I’m an advocate of releasing
my fish so that someone else can enjoy catching them.

‘*And besides, some of the very same fish that we released last
September may be waiting to present a whole new set of challenges
for me next September.’’

Just like the marketplace.

 

W&L 23

The W&L Gazette

 

Spencer, Johnson awarded professorships

 

 

Spencer

Spencer is named
first Parmly Professor

Edgar W. Spencer, head of the depart-
ment of geology since 1959, has been ap-
pointed to a new professorship endowed at
the University through gifts made by the late
Ruth Parmly.

The Ruth Parmly Professorship was
created by the Board of Trustees with funds
the University received from the estate of
Ruth Parmly, who was a generous benefac-
tor of the University. Although she had no
formal connection with Washington and
Lee, Miss Parmly chose to make gifts total-
ing $2 million to W&L during her lifetime
as a memorial to her father, Professor
Charles Howard Parmly, who taught physics
and engineering at the College of the City of
New York. Parmly Hall, which houses the
biology, physics, and engineering depart-
ments, is named in recognition of those gifts.

Spencer, the first holder of the Parmly
Professorship, joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1957. He graduated from
W&L in 1953 with a bachelor of science
degree in physics. He received his Ph.D. in
major-structural geology from Columbia
University in 1957.

Spencer has published numerous articles,
conducted grant-supported research, and
written a widely used textbook for introduc-
tory courses in geology. He is the author of

24 W&L

the 1977 volume Jntroduction to the Struc-
ture of the Earth, which has been reprinted
in paperback as part of the McGraw-Hill in-
ternational series and has also been
translated into Russian.

Spencer is the past recipient of a National
Science Foundation Fellowship and has con-
ducted research under the support of grants
from the National Science Foundation, the
American Chemical Society, and the
American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.

In 1974-75, he directed a land use plan-
ning study under a Virginia Humanities and
Public Policy grant.

 

Johnson

Johnson appointed
Cincinnati Professor

Robert S. Johnson has been named Cin-
cinnati Professor of Mathematics at the
University.

Johnson has been a member of the W&L
faculty since 1965. He attained the rank of
professor in 1975 and was head of the depart-
ment of mathematics from 1977 to 1983.

A graduate of Georgetown College and
the University of North Carolina, he is the
author (with fellow W&L professor Thomas
O. Vinson Jr.) of a textbook titled Linear
Algebra, to be published by Harcourt Brace
Jovanovich. Johnson and Vinson are com-
pleting work on a companion volume,
Multivariable Calculus. While head of the

mathematics department, Johnson
reorganized the basic computer science
courses and organized and directed the
student-run help sessions in the elementary
level courses.

He is a member of the Mathematical
Association of America, the American
Mathematical Society, the American
Association of University Professors, and the
Sigma Xi honorary society.

The Cincinnati Professorship recognizes
the Society of Cincinnati of Virginia’s gift
of its assets to Washington College in 1802.
Since its inception, the professorship has
been occupied by members of the department
of mathematics. The most recent professor
to hold the position was Robert A. Roberts,
who vacated the post when he resigned from
the University in 1981.

Promotions for faculty

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for 10 members of the
Washington and Lee faculty. The promo-
tions, approved by the Board of Trustees in
May, are effective September 1.

Promoted from associate professor to
full professor are: Denis J. Brion (law), Mark
H. Grunewald (law), Roger B. Jeans Jr.
(history), Hampden H. Smith (journalism),
and O. Kendall White Jr. (sociology).

Promoted from assistant professor to
associate professor are: H. Laurent Boetsch
Jr. (romance languages), Steven H. Hobbs
(law), John S. Knox (biology), and Brian C.
Murchison (law).

Richard S. Grefe, instructor in library
science, has been promoted to associate
professor.

Admissions staff appointments

Three new appointments and one promo-
tion have been announced in the office of ad-
missions at the University.

Julia M. Kozak, assistant admissions
director since 1984, has been promoted to
associate admissions director.

Danny N. Murphy, ’73, who had been
dividing his time between duties as associate
dean of students for fraternity affairs and
assistant director of admissions, has been ap-

———_~{F_ ——_

 

 

 

Personnel changes in the admissions office involve (from left) Danny N. Murphy, ’73, and Julia
M. Kozak, who both become associate directors; Christopher P. Lion, ’86, admissions counselor;

and Mimi M. Elrod, new assistant director.

pointed associate director of admissions.

Mimi M. Elrod has been appointed assis-
tant director. A graduate of Oglethorpe
University with M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from Iowa State University, Elrod has taught
at Iowa State and Dabney Lancaster Com-
munity College and is the author of
numerous articles on genetic psychology and
child development.

Christopher P. Lion, who received his
bachelor’s degree from W&L in June, has
been appointed admissions counselor. Lion
majored in public policy. He was co-editor
of the Washington and Lee Political Review,
a member of the debate team, and a member
of Lambda Chi Alpha social fraternity.

Meantime, two admissions staff members
are leaving the University. Van H. Pate, ’71,
associate director of admissions and assistant
professor of romance languages, is entering
business in Richmond, and Robert Tomaso,
’85, admissions counselor for the past year,
will begin law school at the University of
Virginia this fall.

Atkins named
to deanship

Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins II, 68,
associate alumni director at Washington and
Lee, has been named associate dean of
students at the University, effective July 1.

Atkins succeeds Dan N. Murphy, ’73,
who will become associate director of
admissions.

In his new position, Atkins will be
primarily responsible for Greek affairs and
student activities. His duties will include ad-

 

Atkins
vising student organizations and managing
the University Center and the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion.

*‘Buddy’s experience in dealing with a
variety of constituencies on the W&L cam-
pus has prepared him well for this post,’’ said
Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of students. ‘‘As
a long-time fraternity adviser, he knows the
strengths and weaknesses of the system, and
he is well-equipped to deal with them.’’

Atkins, who served in the U.S. Navy
from 1969 to 1972, was on the faculty of
Virginia Episcopal School in Lynchburg,
Va., for five years prior to being named
assistant alumni secretary at W&L in 1977.

Atkins has been a member of the alumni
fraternity council and served on a Universi-
ty committee on fraternity affairs. He is the
adviser to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity.

Job disillusionment common,
according to new study

College graduates entering the ‘“‘real
world’’ of work often discover that their jobs
fail to meet their expectations and are disillu-
sioned within a short time.

That is the principal finding of a study
of 289 newly hired accounting professionals
that was conducted for the ‘‘big eight’’ ac-
counting firms by Roger Dean, associate pro-
fessor of administration at Washington and
Lee, and Constantine Konstans, professor of
accounting at Southern Methodist Uni-
versity.

Dean and Konstans asked first-semester
college seniors about their career expecta-
tions and then queried the same seniors after
their first day on the job and after one year
of work.

Although involving only accountants,
Dean says the survey’s results could apply
to many workers.

‘*People entering professional work had
expectations that far exceeded reality,’’ Dean
says.

‘‘For example, they expected the job to
be more interesting with a lot more
autonomy, using various skills. They ex-
pected to be of more status in the firms than
they were. They expected their pay and pro-
gression to be faster. They expected regular
feedback. They expected the jobs to help
them achieve career objectives.’’

The failure of the first job to match an
employee’s expectations causes what Dean
and Konstans term ‘“‘reality shock.’’ That,
in turn, can adversely affect an employee’s
commitment to the organization and is like-
ly eventually to result in absenteeism,
lateness, poor performance, and turnover.

Dean and Konstans measured expecta-
tions and on-the-job experiences in three ma-
jor areas: job content (actual nature of the
work), job context (the work environment),
and career facilitation (beliefs about future
advancement opportunities both within the
company and in the career as a whole).

According to Dean, the study indicated
that reality shock has a greater impact on job
performance than aptitude or college grades.

He said that companies could reduce
first-job disappointment by telling prospec-
tive employees exactly what assignments they
will have. Too, Dean suggests that firms can
structure entry-level positions in order to
make them more interesting and less routine.
Companies might also consider not hiring the
best and brightest students to do the most
routine chores, he added.

On the other hand, the individual can
reduce reality shock by doing more
homework on the company.

W&L 25

26

Survey examines student coeducation attitudes

Bi months after the first coeduca-
tional undergraduate class enrolled at the
University, a sociology class survey found
that a majority of students favors
coeducation.

The poll was administered during the
winter by a nine-member sociology class
taught by David R. Novack, an associate
professor of sociology. Two years ago the
same Novack class surveyed the student
body and the faculty on questions relating
to whether the University should become
coeducational.

More than three-fourths of the
undergraduate student body participated
in the latest survey.

“Overall, the student body seems to
think that coeducation is going fairly
well,’’ Novack said in a general assess-
ment of the results.

Perhaps the most intriguing of the
findings was that the strongest opposition
to coeducation was found among
freshman and sophomore men.

Meanwhile, the poll found that 71
percent of the students considered the
Honor System to be the school’s most im-
portant tradition and that 45 percent
enrolled in W&L mainly because of its
high academic reputation.

Of the 890 men and 94 women
surveyed, a majority thought coeducation
was in the University’s best interests, and
three-fourths thought the administration
had handled the transition well. But a ma-
jority of the students also thought that the

administration had given too much atten-

tion to women this year and had treated
female students better than male students.

Almost 95 percent of the women said
they thought the administration had done
well in handling the transition, although
31 percent of the women thought the ad-
ministration had devoted too much atten-
tion to them.

The poll found that more than 52 per-
cent of the current juniors and seniors had
been opposed to coeducation before the
decision to enroll women was made in Ju-
ly 1984. But when asked whether they
now thought W&L should have gone
coed, only 34 percent of the junior men
and 29 percent of the senior men were
opposed.

W&L

by Steven Pockrass, ’87

 

 

 

Forty-five percent of the freshman
men and 40 percent of the sophomore
men said they did not think W&L should
have gone coed.

Novack said it is likely that many of
the freshman men have felt left out this
year because the women have received so
much attention. There were 110
undergraduate women enrolled when
classes began in September, and almost
all of them were freshmen. Total
undergraduate enrollment in September
was 1,368, excluding exchange and special
students.

Novack speculated that the attention
directed toward the record number of ap-
plications for the first coeducational class
and the improved SAT scores among the
freshmen caused the sophomores to feel
inferior.

Novack said the survey showed that
those students ‘‘favoring coeducation
tended to see the faculty as treating males
and females the same,’’ but those who
were opposed thought the women were
being treated better. A majority of the
respondents said they thought both sexes
were treated equally by the faculty.

Thirty-seven percent of all men and
six percent of all women said they thought
the faculty treated women better than

 

el See gee me

One of many results of coeducation is the new University Chorus.

men. When broken down by class, the
sophomores had the highest percentage at
42, followed by 23 percent of the
freshmen.

Novack noted that students who
described themselves as more traditional
in their views on the role of women tend-
ed to be less supportive of coeducation
and less satisfied with the administration’s
handling of it.

When asked what they considered to
be W&L’s most important tradition, 81
percent of the freshmen said the Honor
System, compared with 61 percent of the
seniors. About 17 percent of the seniors
considered academic reputation to be the
school’s most important tradition, com-
pared with seven percent of the freshmen.
The results were even more skewed for
men and women, as 87 percent of the
women and 69 percent of the men
thought the Honor System was the
school’s most important tradition.

Novack also said the survey indicated
that most of the students, both male and
female, seemed happy at W&L. Although
43 percent of the men and 24 percent of
the women indicated that they had con-
sidered transferring, 86 percent of the
men and 94 percent of the women said
they were very satisfied.

 

e Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’48, S. Blount
Mason Jr. Professor of English and head of
the English department, was the recipient of
the sixth annual William Webb Pusey III
Award for outstanding service and dedica-
tion to the University.

The Pusey Award was created in 1981 by
the Executive Committee of the student body
and is named in honor of William Webb
Pusey III, who served Washington and Lee
as professor, dean, and acting president from
1939 until his retirement in 1981.

Coulling has been a member of the W&L
faculty since 1956. He received his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of North
Carolina and taught at Florida State Univer-
sity and the University of Maryland before
returning to his alma mater.

¢ John B. Lewis of Greenville, Va., presi-
dent of the Executive Committee of the stu-
dent body, was the 1986 winner of the Frank
Johnson Gilliam Award.

The Gilliam Award is presented to the
student who has made the most conspicuous
contributions to life at Washington and Lee.
The recipient is selected by non-graduating
student government representatives.

Lewis, who received his B.A. degree in
history, was active in Kathekon, the student
alumni association, the Young Republicans,
and the Interfraternity Council in addition
to his work on the Executive Committee. He
served as a dormitory counselor and was
president of Phi Kappa Psi social fraternity.

¢ Ring-tum Phi awards, presented an-
nually by the student newspaper for
outstanding service to the University, were
given in May to Van H. Pate, ’71, associate
director of admissions and assistant pro-
fessor of romance languages; Dianne W.
Herrick, project coordinator for the Lex-
ington Downtown Development Association;
James L. Hayne Jr., ’86, of San Antonio,
Texas, president of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil; Kenneth L. Lindeman, ’86, of Atlanta,
a dormitory counselor and former Executive
Committee member; and Townes G.
Pressler, ’86, of Houston, president of the
class of 1986 and chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee.

e P. Christian Wiman, ’88, of Abilene,
Texas, was the recipient of a $500 scholar-
ship award from the Lexington branch of the
English-Speaking Union. The scholarship is
given annually to a Washington and Lee or
VMI student for study in England. An
English major, Wiman will be studying at
Oxford this summer under the auspices of
the Virginia Program at Oxford.

e Steven B. Connett, ’86, won the Jay
Wingert Award in accounting. The annual
award, named in honor of a 1985 graduate

Recipients of Ring-tum Phi awards (from left) James L. Hayne, ’86; Townes Pressler, ’86; Ken-

 

neth L. Lindeman, ’86; Dianne W. Herrick, project coordinator for the Lexington Downtown
Development Association; and Van H. Pate, ’71, former associate director of admissions.

 

who was killed in an automobile accident
following his graduation last summer, is for
the outstanding senior accounting major.

¢ Michael P. Allen, ’86, received second
place in the Sigma Delta Chi Mark of Ex-
cellence Award for Region 2. Sigma Delta
Chi is the society of professional journalists.
The award was given for six stories that Allen
wrote on an uprising at the Virginia state
penitentiary during the summer of 1985. He
wrote the series while working as an intern
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

e A. Ernest Fitzgerald was the 1986 reci-
pient of the First Amendment Award
presented by Washington and Lee’s chapter
of Sigma Delta Chi. Fitzgerald became the
most famous contemporary ‘‘whistleblower’’
for exposing cost overruns of about $2 billion
on the Air Force’s CSA transport plane.

The W&L Sigma Delta Chi chapter also

English professor
Sidney M. B. Coul-
ling, ’48, (left) was
presented the
William Webb
Pusey Award, and
John B. Lewis, 86,
Executive Commit-
tee president, won
the Frank J.
Gilliam Award.

gave service awards to professors Louis W.
Hodges and Ronald H. MacDonald, who
teach a course in journalism ethics, and to
John Falk, ’86, who organized a symposium
on defense procurement last spring.

¢ The department of English presented
George A. Mahan Awards in Creative
Writing to Francis B. McQuillen, ’86, of Sea
Isle City, N.J., and James Keith Pillow, ’87,
of Oak Grove, Va. Michael R. McAlevey,
°86, of Miami, received the Jean Amory
Wornom Award for Distinguished Critical
Writing.

e Ronald H. MacDonald, professor of
journalism, received the 1985 best feature
award from the United Press International
Virginia Broadcasters. MacDonald wrote
and produced a series celebrating the Blue
Ridge Parkway on its 50th anniversary. The
series aired on Roanoke’s WDBJ-TV.

W&L = 27

The Generals’ Report

 

Men’s Tennis Team Finishes Second in the Nation

 

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis
team came within a match of capturing the
NCAA Division III national championship
at Claremont, Calif., in mid-May.

The Generals scored impressive victories
on the first two days of the eight-team tour-
nament before losing to top-seeded
Kalamazoo (Mich.) College, 6-3, in the
championship match.

“*T am really proud of the entire team,”’
said head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘The players
worked hard all year,
and we came very
close to winning it all.
We sure gave
Kalamazoo a run for
the money.’’

The second-place
finish was the highest
fora W&L team since
the current tourna-
ment format was in-
stituted for Division
III in 1983. W&L had
finished second in the
nation in 1977 and 1978 under a different
format.

The national event, which was played on
the W&L courts in 1984, brought together
the top eight teams for a three-day, single
elimination tournament. The Generals were
ranked fifth going into the competition.
After defeating sixth-seeded Washington
University of St. Louis 8-1 in the quarter-
finals, W&L scored the biggest upset of the
tournament by stunning second-seeded Whit-
man College 6-3 in the semifinals.

‘‘This was a team of character,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘There was a great deal of balance,
and that showed up in the team champion-
ships.’’

Against Kalamazoo, W&L claimed
singles victories by freshman Bobby Mat-
thews (Fort Worth, Texas) at No. 3 and
sophomore Jack Messerly (Atlanta) at No.
5 along with a triumph by Matthews and
junior Roby Mize (Dallas) at No. 2 doubles.

Matthews and Messerly won all three of
their singles matches while Matthews and
Mize were unbeaten in their three doubles
matches. Senior captain Scott Adams (Cold
Spring Harbor, N.Y.) and sophomore Chris
Wiman (Abilene, Texas) won two of three
singles matches in the event.

Although disappointed that they were
unable to win the title, the team members

28 W&L

 

by Mark Mandel

Roby Mize, ’87, of Dallas played at the No. 2
singles position for the Generals.

were already looking ahead to the 1987 tour-
nament since only one of the six starters,
senior Adams, will be lost to graduation.

*“We hope to be in contention again next
year,’’ said Franke. ‘‘Certainly our ex-
perience in the tournament this year will
help.”’

During the regular season, the Generals
won 16 of 25 dual matches and coasted to
the team title in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference, winning five of six individual
crowns and all three doubles championships.

The women’s tennis team did not com-
pete for national honors in its first season
of competition, but head coach Bill
Washburn was not disappointed with the
progress his players made.

‘“We knew that we would not be world-
beaters in our first season,’’ Washburn said.
‘“We simply wanted to get off on the right
foot, and I think we accomplished that. The
players worked hard and came a long way
in their first year.’’

The women’s team, composed entirely of
freshmen, finished ninth in the 10-team
ODAC championships.

Once again the Generals’ track and field
team enjoyed solid seasons both indoors and
out. After taking their third straight ODAC
indoor title in the winter, the Generals rac-

 

 

Andy White, ’88, of Winchester, Va., clears
another hurdle for the Generals’ track team.

ed through another undefeated dual-meet
season (their third straight) and finished sec-
ond to archrival Lynchburg in the conference
outdoor championships.

W&L had beaten Lynchburg for the in-
door title but was a step behind in the out-
door event, finishing second by 14 points.
Head coach Norris Aldridge commended his
team’s effort, saying, ‘‘They have nothing
to be ashamed of and should be proud of the
season.”’

Shining in the conference meet and
throughout the season were senior Chris
Bleggi (Weedville, Pa.) and sophomore An-
drew White (Winchester, Va.). Bleggi cap-
tured two individual titles (the 100- and
200-meters) and anchored the winning
440-yard relay team. White also took two
first places at the meet by winning the
110- and 400-meter hurdles.

W&L’s golf team came within three
strokes of capturing the ODAC champion-
ship, losing to Hampden-Sydney by three
strokes. Senior Greg Wheeler (Anniston,
Ala.), who represented W&L in the national
championships at Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and
senior Jeff Kimbell (Indianapolis) earned all-
conference awards.

The Generals’ baseball team finished the
season with a 7-14-1 overall mark, 6-9 in the

 

—

conference, and lost to Hampden-Sydney 4-3
in the quarterfinals of the ODAC tourney.
W&L was led by senior second baseman
Chuck Nelson (Nelson, Va.), who hit .375
and was named to the AIl-ODAC team.
Junior third baseman Milam Turner hit .378
and knocked in 17 runs, and junior out-
fielder Chris Talley, a nominee for Academic
All-America honors, hit .333.

“It was a disappointing year, but a lot
of our younger players had an opportunity
to play, and that experience will help us in
the coming years,’’ said head coach Jim
Murdock.

The women’s soccer team, established as
a varsity-developmental sport this spring, has
already gotten off to a noteworthy start.
Coached by Rolf Piranian, the team con-
sisted of 25 players, almost a quarter of the
entire female undergraduate enrollment at
W&L. The Generals will play in the spring
of 1987 and will begin competing within the
ODAC in the fall of 1988.

**T am very excited about the enthusiasm
that these women have shown. It is through
their effort that this program has developed
so quickly,’’ says Bill McHenry, W&L’s
athletic director.

 

BASEBALL

West Virginia Tech 5, W&L 1
W&L 5, West Virginia Tech 5 ©
Christopher Newport 9, W&L 3
Bridgewater 6, W&L 1

W&L 10, Eastern Mennonite 4
Randolph-Macon 7, W&L 0
Randolph-Macon 9, W&L 1
W&L 9, Hampden-Sydney 1
Hampden-Sydney 3, W&L 0
Lynchburg 21, W&L 6

W&L 7, Emory & Henry 4
W&L 6, Emory & Henry 5
VMI 10, W&L 9

Lynchburg 7, W&L 6
Bridgewater 6, W&L 4

W&L 4, Maryville 3

W&L 3, Maryville 0

Eastern Mennonite 7, W&L 6
Radford 3, W&L 1

W&L 7, Christopher Newport 4
VMI 28, W&L 17
Hampden-Sydney 4, W&L 3

TRACK AND FIELD

W&L 105, Davidson 34

W&L 95, Barber-Scotia 38

W&L 71, Wooster 68

W&L 88, Roanoke 58, Bridgewater 39,
Eastern Mennonite 0

W&L 118, Newport News 50, Eastern
Mennonite 7

2nd in ODAC Championships

 

é ¥
f& WATS ra 4
ra VV al { 5

Senior Chris Bleggi (Weedville, Pa.) won
the University’s most coveted athletic award
at the 1985 All-Sports Barbecue and Awards
Ceremony. An all-conference football player
and the ODAC indoor track Runner-of-the-
Year, Bleggi was the recipient of the P.R.
Brown Award as the most valuable senior
athlete.

The six other major award winners were:
senior Mike Stachura (Carlisle, Pa.), sports
editor of The Ring-tum Phi, who was nam-
ed the first recipient of the R.E. (Chub)
Yeakel Award for his contributions to W&L
athletics; senior Ted Goebel (Coolville,
Ohio), the four-year manager for baseball
and football, who was named the J.L. (Lef-
ty) Newell Award winner; Tom Skeen (Paris,
Ky.), an All-ODAC football player, who
won the male Freshman Athlete of the Year
Award; Elizabeth Miles (Louisville, Ky.), an
honorable mention All-America swimmer,
who won the female Freshman Athlete of the
Year Award; senior Billy Holmes (Glad-
wyne, Pa.), a captain of both the soccer and
lacrosse teams, who was the recipient of the
Wink Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship
Award; and senior Larry Anker (East Wind-
sor, N.J.), a wrestling record-holder with a

orts Score

GOLF

lith in JMU Invitationa

22nd in Max Ward Invitational

W&L 307, Longwood 322, Bridgewater 327
2nd in Hoya Open

W&L 324, Shenandoah 360

W&L 332, Bridgewater 334

2nd in ODAC Championships

MEN’S TENNIS

Penn State 9, W&L 0

James Madison 5, W&L 4

Virginia Tech 6, W&L 3

W&L 5, William and Mary 4

W&L 9, Hampden-Sydney 0

W&L 8, Claremont 1

Swarthmore 6, W&L 3

W&L 7, Lehigh 2

W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

Evansville 5, W&L 4

W&L 5, Washington College 4

W&L 9, Slippery Rock 0

W&L 8, Sewanee 1

W&L 9, VMI 0

WAL 9, Stetson 0

Flagler 5, W&L 4

Rollins 6, W&L 3

W&L 9, Central Florida 0

W&L 7, Florida Inst. Tech. 2

W&L 8, George Mason |

Ist in ODAC Tournament

Virginia 5, W&L 4

W&L 9, Radford 0

W&L 8, Washington University 1*

W&L 6, Whitman 3*

Kalamazoo 6, W&L 3*
*NCAA Championships

 

3.8 cumulative grade point average in a tri-
ple major of chemistry, physics and
mathematics, who won the first Scholar-
Athlete Award.

Also singled out for recognition during
the awards ceremony were 69 students nam-
ed to the Academic-Athletic Honor Roll.
They earned a spot on the list by par-
ticipating in a varsity sport and earning at
least a 3.5 grade point average during a term.

Join the Generals’
European Tour

Washington and Lee’s basketball team
will take one of its longest road trips ever
when the Generals leave for a tour of five
European countries during the Christmas
holidays, and alumni are invited to join the
tour.

The tour leaves New York on December
27 and returns there on January 3, 1987. The
countries W&L will visit for a series of games
are West Germany, Luxembourg, France,
Holland, and Belgium. The tour will include
meals, lodging, flight, and ground
transportation.

For the itinerary and costs, contact Verne
Canfield, head basketball coach, by
telephone at (703) 463-8688.

oard

LACROSSE

Duke 7, W&L 6

W&L 28, Virginia Tech 1
W&L 17, Dartmouth 12
Virginia 16, W&L 6
W&L 13, Notre Dame 9
Towson State 12, W&L 9
W&L 20, VMI 2

Cornell 26, W&L 2
W&L 21, Radford 2
Washington College 11, W&L 10
Roanoke 17, W&L 14
Loyola 20, W&L 6
UMBC 17, W&L 8

WOMEN’S TENNIS

Sweet Briar 9, W&L 0
Roanoke 8, W&L 1
Lynchburg 9, W&L 0

W&L 5, Randolph-Macon 4
Bridgewater 7, W&L 2
Emory & Henry 9, W&L 0
Mary Baldwin 8, W&L 1
Randolph-Macon Woman’s 9, W&L 0
Hollins 9, W&L 0
Bridgewater 9, W&L 0

9th in ODAC Championships

W&L 29

Alumni News

New Alumni Directory Still Available

he newest edition of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Directory, listing the names and
addresses of more than 16,000 W&L alum-
ni, was published in June by Harris
Publishing Company.

According to the publishers, more than
4,000 alumni have already purchased the
directory. Alumni wishing to obtain a copy
can still do so by writing or calling the
publishers.

For information, write Customer Service
Department, Bernard C. Harris Publishing
Company Inc., 3 Barker Avenue, White
Plains, N.Y. 10601, or call 914-946-7500.

Efforts to reunify the New England
Chapter began in May when area alumni
gathered at the St. Botolph Club in Boston
for a wine tasting party.

Mark Favermann, ’69, is the new chapter
president, who was host for the inaugural
meeting and announced plans for future
chapter activities.

In addition, Steve McGehee, ’79, chair-
man of the AAP committee, reported that
he had interviewed 42 prospective students
from the Boston area last year and that six
of those interviewees are now confirmed
members of the Class of ’90, which will
enroll in September.

The Tidewater Chapter held its annual
Oyster Roast in late April at the Norfolk
Boat Club.

Gary Fallon, head football coach at
Washington and Lee, was the featured
speaker for a luncheon meeting of the Rich-
mond Chapter in April.

The Palmetto Chapter held its annual
spring business meeting in mid-May and
heard a report from Farris P. Hotchkiss,
director of development and university rela-
tions at Washington and Lee.

In early June, the Chicago Chapter
gathered at the Chicago Bar Association for
a reception at which plans for the upcoming
year were announced.

The New Orleans Chapter held its annual
summer cocktail party in June at the home

30 W&L

NEW YORK—New chapter officers elected in June include Gray Coleman, ’79; Chris Lykes,

 

 

 . ae.

84; John Zamoiski, ’74, the new president; John Woodlief, ’72; and Bob Keefe, ’68.

RICHMOND—The Richmond Chapter heard from Gary Fallon (center), head football coach, at

 

a luncheon meeting. From left, John Watlington, ’72; Channing Martin, ’75, ’79L; Fallon; Ken
Ries, former W&L sports information director; and Ware Palmer, 82

of Mr. and Mrs. William K. Christovich.

The council of the New York Chapter
met in June for a reception and dinner hosted
by Richard Warren, ’57, a member of the
Alumni Board. John Zamoiski, ’74, was
elected the new chapter president.

New students were honored at a recep-
tion held by the Eastern Kentucky Chapter
in Lexington in June.

The San Antonio Chapter lost by a nar-
row margin in a softball game against

Sewanee’s San Antonio alumni in late May.
That fluke victory by Sewanee evened the
series between the two chapters at one win
apiece with one tie.

Meanwhile, members of several chapters
participated with alumni from other Virginia
colleges in various Old Dominion Day ac-
tivities during the late spring and early sum-
mer. Chapters participating in such events
included Detroit, Washington, New
England, and Jacksonville.

 

    

   

EASTERN KENTUCK Y—Chapter leadership is in the capable hands
of (from left) Grover Baldwin, ’40; Jennie Penn; John Penn, ’73; and

John Bagby, ’73L.

   

 

   
  

oat

 

TIDEWATER—Enjoying the annual Oyster Roast were (from left)
Mike Devine, ’80; David Greer, ’80; Paul Gerhardt, ’79, ’84L; and
Cary Booth, ’80.

  

SSS

#4:

 

James J. Danis: 68, 1L N i e mM D oT S

Princeton, N.J.
Former Baltimore Chapter President
Former Baltimore AAP Chairman

 

Robert D. LaRue, ’72
Houston, Texas

Houston Chapter President, 1983-86

Class Agent, 1973-74

;

  

James A. Meriwether, ’70
Washington, D.C.
Annual Fund Chairman, 1983-85
Washington Chapter President, 1977-79

 

NEW ENGLAND—Joining in the renewal of the New England
Chapter were (from left) Mark Favermann, ’69; Barbara Favermann;
Diane Taylor; and Bill Taylor, ’62.

Ake ¥
S S

    

      

) vt a2

NEW YORK—Chapter council members include (seated, from left)
Bob Ingham, ’55; Roper Shamhart, ’47; Paul Perkins, ’74; (standing,
from left) Paul Sanders, ’43; Dick Warren, ’57; Matt Griffith, °40;
and Mel Hicks, ’52.

 

  

wa

 

John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.
San Diego Chapter President, 1983-86
San Diego AAP Chairman, 1983-86

 

Richard R. Warren, °57
New York, N.Y.
New York Chapter President, 1969
Class Agent, 1983-84

W&L 31

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 714.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

32

W&L

1933

Cary F. Irons Jr. is a part-time preceptor in the
family practice center of the East Carolina Univer-
sity School of Medicine in Greenville, N.C.

1934
Richard Sale of Beverly Hills, Calif., has sold his
latest book, My Affair with the President’s Wife,
to the Cannon Group for a movie starring Charles
Bronson. This is his 15th novel.

John S. Beagle has retired to Punta Gorda, Fla.,
after 49 years as a practicing attorney in Flint,

Mich.
1937

P. Duane Berry of San Antonio, Texas, has retired
from Dean Witter and now looks after his own
securities investments.

Robert P. Kingsbury retired in May as controller
and director of Weiner Steel Corp. He lives in Los
Angeles, Calif.

Tilford Payne, a retired lawyer, has been chosen
chairman of the Jefferson County, Ky.,
Republican Party. Payne has held the office twice
before and vowed to ‘‘put some pizzazz back in
the Republican Party.”’

1938
In his retirement, Rev. Arthur L. Bice serves as
vicar of St. Michael’s Church in Middleville, N.Y.,
and continues to direct the affairs of St. Thomas
Guild, the publishing house he started some 30
years ago.

Frank W. Comer and his wife, Jeannette,
celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary in June.

Alphonse J. Sherman retired in May from the
University of Bridgeport where he had been a pro-

fessor.
1939

Garret Hiers Jr. of Berwyn, Pa. remains active as
a consultant in the business world and as a com-
petitive swimmer in the masters divisions.

Dr. John A. Parkins’s granddaughter, Betsy
Parkins, will be a sophomore at W&L this fall.
She is a fourth-generation W&L student. Parkins
resides in Newark, Del.

1942

Robert F. Hunter retired in May after 32 years of
teaching history at Virginia Military Institute.

J. Aubrey Matthews retired as judge of the 23rd
Judicial Circuit in Virginia in July. Matthews had
presided over cases in Smyth and Washington
counties for 21 years. He lives in Marion, Va.

1943

Donald E. Garretson of St. Paul, Minn., is chair-
man of the Minnesota Private College Fund.

Rev. R. Francis Johnson, dean of the faculty at
Connecticut College, received an honorary doc-
tor of divinity degree from the Episcopal
Theological Seminary of the Southwest during its
33rd commencement in May. Rev. Johnson, who

SS

 

 

 

50th Reunion of Class of ’36

taught at the seminary for 12 years, delivered the
commencement address.

T. Dabney Kern has retired from service with II-
linois Central Gulf Railroad after 39 years. Kern
is now a railroad consultant on civil engineering
projects and lives in Flossmoor, IIl.

1944

Fred W. Bauer retired in April after 26 years as
manager of environmental services, corporate
technology for Allied-Signal in Morristown, N.J.

1948

J. Aubrey Matthews (See 1942.)

1949

Richard M. Yankee Jr. is a registered represen-
tative for the investment banking firm of J. C.
Bradford and Co. He works in the firm’s Dalton,
Ga., office, which is managed by Jim Patton, ’51.
Yankee lives in Signal Mountain, Tenn.

1950

E. Bruce Harvey Jr. and his wife, Bridget, are liv-
ing in Bristol, Va., where he is responsible for
Christian education at Central Presbyterian

Church.
1951

Thomas J. Condon continues in his law practice
in Ansonia, Conn. He lives in Woodbridge, Conn..,
with his wife, Margot. Condon has been joined
in his practice by son Kevin, while son Tom III
recently retired as an offensive guard with the Kan-
sas City Chiefs and is now president of the Na-
tional Football League Players Association.

Burton L. Litwin of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., is vice
president and general manager of East Coast
operations of the Columbia Pictures Music Group.
Litwin also continues his theatrical production ac-
tivities and has enjoyed successes with worldwide
presentations of Sophisticated Ladies and with a

 

 

London production of the Royal Shakespeare
Company musical Poppy.

1952

Rogelio De La Guardia is president of Cudieo,
S.A., a Panama-based construction materials and
home improvement wholesale and retail represen-
tative of several U.S. firms. He and his family live
in Panama. The De LaGuardias have four children
and one grandchild.

19S)

O. Bertrand Ramsay stepped down July 1 as head
of the department of chemistry at Eastern
Michigan University. He will spend 1986-87 on
sabbatical lecturing at two universities in Shanghai
in the People’s Republic of China. Ramsay lives
in Ypsilanti, Mich.

Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr. continues as executive
editor of The Muncie Star and Muncie Evening
Press in Muncie, Ind. In 1984, Spurgeon’s Mun-
cie and Delaware County: A Historical Retrospec-
tive was published by Windsor Publications.

1956

Keith Rogers has taken early retirement from the
U.S. Tobacco Co. and is working on a novel about
politics, product recall, and the consumer move-
ment. He lives in Greenwich, Conn.

Dr. William S. Tunner practices urology in Rich-
mond and is president of the Virginia chapter of
the American College of Surgeons. He is a member
of the board and secretary of St. Mary’s Hospital

in Richmond.
1957

Rex Adams Jr., who spent the last 20 years
teaching and farming on the Australian island of
Tasmania has returned to Virginia. He and his
wife, Mary, live in Saxe, Va., and he is develop-
ing the business management center at Southside
Virginia Community College in Keysville.

1958

Brooks O. Pollock Jr. of Virginia Beach is involv-
ed in commercial development in Virginia Beach,
Norfolk, and Williamsburg. He is still an avid
aviator. Pollard’s son, Coalter, is a member of the
W&L Class of 1988.

1959

James M. Crews Jr, former executive vice presi-
dent of First Tennessee National Corp., has
become vice president of Guardsmark Inc., a
Memphis-based security firm with 6,500 employees
nationwide.

1960

Franklin S. DuBois Jr. is director of brokerage
market and consulting for Life Insurance
Marketing & Research Associations. He lives in
West Hartford, Conn.

1961
Winthrop L. Weed and his wife, Rhonda, have
moved back to her homeland in Sydney, Australia.

1962

Dr. Robert P. Carroll is currently vice president
of the local county medical society in
Nacogdoches, Texas. He also serves on the Na-
tional Medical Advisory Council for AMI Hospital
Corp.

Dr. Kenneth B. Jones is a charter member of the
American Society for Bariatric (Obesity) Surgery,
a group of 200 American surgeons involved in the
development of surgical procedures for the treat-
ment of obesity and its associated diseases. He lives
in Shreveport, La.

Stephen W. Rutledge is vice president of marketing
for Ralston Purina Co. and lives in St. Louis, Mo.,
where he is an adjunct professor in marketing at
Washington University and is active in fund rais-
ing for St. Louis Country Day and Mary Institute.

1963

William H. Candler is founding editor of Port
Folio, a magazine that reaches more than 140,000
readers in the Newport News/Norfolk/ Virginia
Beach area. Candler and his wife, Linda, make
their home in Virginia Beach.

Samuel D. Tankard III is working for the Nor-
folk Botanical Gardens in Norfolk, Va. His home
is in Virginia Beach.

Frank M. Young III, a
partner in the Birm-
ingham, Ala., law firm
of Haskell, Slaughter,
Young & Lewis, was
recently elected president
of the Birmingham area
chamber of commerce.

1964

Frederic W. Boye III is currently manager of
development engineering for the eastern division
of the Shell Oil Co. in New Orleans, La.

Dr. Matthew H. Hulbert, senior research scien-
tist for International Mineral/Chemical, recently
co-authored a book on clay microstructure, which
is billed as the only available comprehensive
presentation of the current knowledge on clay
microstructure with emphasis on marine settings.
Hulbert lives in Terre Haute, Ind.

Donald B. McFall is on the board of trustees of
Woodberry Forest School in Orange, Va. He is
an attorney in Houston.

 

W&L 33

 

Charles B. Savage is vice president of commercial
loan with First Alabama Bank in Montgomery,
Ala.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James R. Boardman, a son,
Thomas, on April 21, 1985, in Seoul, Korea.
Boardman was recently named vice president and
general manager of Manufacturers Hanover and
was transferred from Seoul to Tokyo, Japan.

Walter H. Bennett Jr. has taken a year off from
the practice of law in Charlotte, N.C., to return
to the University of Virginia School of Law to ob-
tain an LL.M. degree with concentration in inter-
national law. Bennett’s wife, Betsy, will pursue a
Ph.D. in science education at UVa.

L. Gene Griffiths Jr. was selected as a delegate
from Mississippi to the White House Conference
on Small Business which will be held in August.
Griffiths, who lives in Ridgeland, Miss., is presi-
dent of Gregory Manufacturing Company, Inc.,
in Jackson.

Lt. Col. John E. Griggs will report to Athens in
August to serve as ground combat systems advisor
to the Greek Army.

James S. Legg Jr. has left Melbourne, Fla., to
work for Ford Aerospace & Communications
Corp. in College Park, Md. He lives in Greenbelt,
Md.

Michael J. Michaeles, who started his own law
practice in Worcester, Mass., in January 1985, was
awarded the distinguished leadership award for
community service by the National Association of
Community Leadership Organizations. Michaeles
lives in Bolton, Mass.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harvey L. Handley III, a
son, Alan Lockhart, on April 26, 1985, in Arl-
ington, Va. He is the grandson of H. L. Handley
Jr., 739, and the great-grandson of the late H. L.
Handley, ’06.

C. Frederick Bent III is involved in international
corporate administration and tax planning. His of-
fice is in Boston, Mass.

William H. Candler (See 1963).

Dr. David Fleischer has been on the faculty of
Georgetown University as associate professor of
medicine since July 1985. He spent several months
lecturing in Belgium, Japan, and Brazil.

Samuel H. Frazier is a partner in the Birmingham,
Ala., law firm of Spain, Gillon, Tate, Groams &
Blanc. He led his firm in renovating and moving
into one of Birmingham’s historic buildings, which
had been threatened with demolition before the
firm saved it.

Michael E. Lawrence is partner in charge of
management consulting in the Southeast for Ernst
and Whinney. He has been in the firm’s Nashville
office for seven years. Lawrence also serves as
chairman of the board of trustees for Harding
Academy, a private school in Nashville.

David J. Mathewson Jr. has expanded his inter-
national consulting firm, Proofmark Ltd., with
a new Office in Italy. Mathewson resides in Alton,
Ill.

Joseph W. Richmond Jr. is chairman of the real
property section of the Virginia State Bar Assoc.
He is an attorney in Charlottesville, where he and
his wife, Pat, live with their three children.

Kemble White III continues to practice what he
calls ‘‘frontier law’’ in Dallas, explaining that it

34.  W&L

 

After almost 40 years of teaching at
the Harvard Business School, Charles M.
Williams, ’37, has retired and left a void
that officials of that institution
acknowledge will be difficult to fill.

-_ Inan interview in the April 1986 issue
of the Harvard Business School Bulletin,
Williams estimated that he has taught
some 6, ae M.B.A. students, some 2,000
senior managers
from small- to
mid-sized banks,
nearly 300 top
_ managers from the
largest of the na-
tion’s banks, and
countless other ex-
ecutives in pro-
grams run at the
School and sponsored by outside com-
panies and associations.

Indeed, the list of Williams’ former
students is a veritable who’s who in
American banking. And the members of
that list are universal in their praise for
their mentor.

Richard Thomas, president of the
First National Bank of Chicago and a
1958 M.B.A. graduate of Harvard, told
the Harvard Business School Bulletin:
‘*There’s not been a professor anywhere
who’s had a greater impact on the bank-
ing industry over the last 25 years than
Charlie.”’

Williams, who was the George Gund

 

 

 

 

 

is ‘mostly tax and divorce work with an occasional
rustling case.’’ He is now chairman of the board
of Midway National Bank.

1967

C. F. Armstrong has opened his own marketing
and public relations firm, Armstrong Communica-
tions, in Danville, Pa. He recently helped judge
the Boston Publicity Club’s annual Bell Ringer
Awards.

Thomas C. Davis is urban minister for Tropical
Florida Presbytery of the Presbyterian Church,
U.S.A., and pastor of the North Miami Beach
Presbyterian Church.

James W. Oram Jr. was promoted to area manager
for IBM Credit Corp., the subsidiary for leasing
IBM hardware and other equipment. He lives in

Devon, Pa.
1968

Edmund H. Armentrout has been appointed vice
president of Central Atlanta Progress, Inc., a
downtown business organization devoted to
revitalization of the central Atlanta area. He also
serves on the boards of the Georgia Downtown
Development Assoc. and the Georgia Downtown
Assoc.

Michael J. Michaeles (See 1965.)

Williams retires at Harvard

continues to be on the boards of

Professor of Commercial Banking,
received an honorary degree from
Washington and Lee in 1966. A native of
Romney, W.Va., Williams was a Phi Beta
Kappa graduate of W&L. He received his
M.B.A. from Harvard in 1939 and earn-
ed his Doctorate of Commercial Science
from Harvard in 195}.

His publications include authorship of
Cumulative Voting for Directors and co-
authorship of Case Problems in Finance
and Basic Business Finance, as well as
various articles.

He may best be remembered by Har-
vard Business School students for design-
ing and teaching the second-year M.B.A.
course, Management of Financial Institu-
tions. He has been active in management
development and consulting for leading
financial institutions. He has been and

numerous companies ranging from Chase
Manhattan Mortgage and Realty Trust to
Hammermill Paper Company to
Keystone Custodial Funds.

In tribute to Williams’ tenure there,
the Harvard Business School has
established the Charles M. Williams
Fund, which is to be used to ‘‘encourage
and reward outstanding performance in
case method teaching and course develop-
ment, in the same way that Charlie pro-
vided inspiration and stimulating
classroom leadership, case collection and
course design.”’

 

George A. Morgan Jr., a realtor in Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla., received an award from that city for
his work with children’s athletics in the
community.

Geoffrey L. Stone is administrator of a 402-bed
hospital in Medford, N.J. He lives in Medford
with his wife, Virginia, and daughter, Beverley.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Van Dine, a son,
Jonathan Peter, on Jan. 2, 1985, in Doylestown,
Pa. He joins a sister, Amy Melissa. Van Dine is
a vice president in the trust division of Provident
National Bank, and he also operates a Christmas
tree farm in Bucks County, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. Daniel Winter III, a son,
Homer Daniel IV, on March 24, 1986, in
Earlysville, Va.

William M. Christie has been appointed professor
of linguistics and associate academic dean at Fur-
man University in Greenville, S.C. He spent 13
years at the University of Arizona where he was
a professor of English and served a term as
associate dean of liberal arts. He has a doctorate
in linguistics from Yale.

Dr. David D. Jackson, a general and vascular
surgeon in Mount Airy, N.C., is a fellow of the
American College of Surgeons, the Southeastern

 

Surgical Association, and the North Carolina
Surgical Society. He and his wife, Tanya, have
three children, Richard, 9; Jennifer, 8; and
Zachary, 7.

Donald B. McFall (See 1964.)

David T. Shufflebarger was elected president of
the Old Dominion chapter of the Public Relations
Society of America. He lives in Norfolk.

Robert W. Wipfler had a very successful first year
as owner and director of Kingswood Camp for
Boys in New Hampshire. His sons, Robbie, 12,
and Michael, 7, were two of the more spirited
campers. Wipfler lives in Bethesda, Md., and
teaches at Landon School.

Kemble White III (See 1966.)

1970

Charles A. Holt Jr., associate professor of
economics at the University of Virginia, will be
spending the 1986-87 academic year in Barcelona,
Spain, doing research.

George P. Page II was named a director of Agent
Systems, Inc., a Dallas-based manufacturer of self-
service and credit card ticket dispensing machines.

igh

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Joseph G. McCabe, a
daughter, Sandra Damron, on June 22, 1985.
McCabe practices radiology in Charles Town,
W.Va., and resides in Winchester, Va.

David L. Baird Jr. was named general counsel of
Exxon Chemical Asia Pacific Ltd. He and his wife,
Kathy, and two children, Melissa and Amy, live
in Hong Kong.

William P. Canby continues with Trust Company
Bank in Atlanta. He and his wife, Kathe, have two
children, John, 6, and Maggie, 1.

Timothy H. Dyer of Marion, Mass., is vice presi-
dent and director of marketing at the New Bed-
ford Five Cents Savings Bank. He just completed
his 15th year as head coach and managing direc-
tor of ‘‘Hockey Unlimited.’’

Peter M. Van Dine (See 1969.)

1972

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Michael W. McCall, a son,
Clayton, in May 1985. McCall is director of der-
matologic surgery for the University of Louisville
School of Medicine.

Harvey L. Handley III (See 1966.)

Fredrick H. Sands is practicing general internal
medicine with the Mason Clinic in Seattle, Wash.

Maj. Paul Weeks has concluded his second three-
year tour in West Germany, where he was involv-
ed with the successful fielding of the Patriot Air
Defense Missile System. Having been promoted
to major, he is now assigned to the ROTC pro-
gram at Youngstown State University in Ohio.

1973

Alex E. Moser practices dentistry in Winston-

Salem, N.C.
1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Lewis Hannah Jr., a
son, Lewis Alexander, on Feb. 20, 1986, in
Raleigh, N.C. He joins a brother, P. Tyler. Han-
nah has been elected an assistant vice president of
Central Carolina Bank and Trust Co. The family
lives in Cary, N.C.

Thomas A. Mattesky is a producer with CBS
News. He was recently transferred to the network’s
Atlanta bureau.

1975

MARRIAGE: Thomas Rittenburg and Mary Ann
Maize on Dec. 28, 1985, in Arcadia, Calif. Rit-
tenburg is an attorney with the Los Angeles firm
of Lewis, D’Amato, Brisbois & Bisgaard.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Lander II, a
daughter, Julie Margaret, on Feb. 4, 1986. They
live in Port Jervis, N.Y.

Blackstone, Va., attorney Mayo K. Gravatt has
been named commonwealth’s attorney for Not-
toway County. Gravatt will continue his law prac-
tice in Blackstone.

John R. Picciotti is president and general manager
of Architectural Hardware Co. in Wilmington,

Del.
1976

MARRIAGE: Peyton A. Via and Karen Jane
Bieler, on April 19, 1986, in Emmaus, Pa. They
live in Virginia Beach where Via works for Record
Bar.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Daniel E. Drennen II, a
daughter, Frances Reynolds, on June 27, 1985, in
Mobile. Drennen, an attorney, and his wife,
Mallie, also have two sons, Glenn and Daniel, and
a daughter, Katharine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm R. Hastings, a
daughter, Jeanne Adele, on Oct. 31, 1985. The
Hastings reside in Dunwoody, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Julian J. Nexsen Jr., a
daughter, Elizabeth Kincaid, on Feb. 18, 1986, in
Greenwood, S.C. Nexsen is the attorney for Green-
wood Mills, Inc.

In February, David R. Braun was promoted to all-
lines manager for the Minneapolis office of The
Travelers Insurance Group. He has also earned his
Chartered Life Underwriter (CLU) designation.

Rush S. Dickson III of Charlotte, N.C., is vice
president of marketing with Harris Teeter Super-
markets, Inc.

B. Craig Owens was promoted to controller for
Coca-Cola Bottling Enterprises and is moving to
Atlanta from San Francisco.

1977

MARRIAGE: Allen R. Emmert III and Nancy B.
Clough on April 27, 1985. Emmert is employed
by Capitol Cement Corp. as a quality control
chemist. The couple lives in Martinsburg, W. Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Q. Giblin, a
daughter, Meghan Eileen, on Dec. 22, 1985.
Giblin, his wife, Debbie, and new daughter live
in Lakewood, Ohio.

Steven N. Gabelman has been promoted to inter-
national marketing manager in the specialty
chemicals division of Union Carbide Corp. He and
his family live in New Fairfield, Conn.

Dr. Jon R. Grigg was recently promoted to lieute-
nant commander in the U.S. Navy medical corps
and serves as the head of the department of
psychiatry at the Naval Clinic in Norfolk. He and
his wife, Susan, are the parents of two children.

In July 1986, Dr. Earl W. Stradtman Jr. took a
staff position with the department of obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of Alabama at Bir-
mingham Hospital. He had been a research fellow
in gynecologic oncology at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital in Boston.

1978

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Dorsey, a
daughter, Rachel Helen, on Sept. 25, 1985. Dorsey
is doing a fellowship in pulmonary medicine at the
University of Arkansas in Little Rock.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas O. York Jr., a
daughter, Macon Elizabeth, on Jan. 31, 1985.
York is general manager of York Truck Equip-
ment in Jacksonville, Fla.

James A. Barnes has joined the Department of the
Treasury as the chief speechwriter for Secretary
James Baker.

 

 

1961 Reunion Gift Committee

 

Class presented $260,000 to W&L in May.

 

 

W&L 35

 

Ray S. Coffey Jr. is a field chemist with GSX, a
hazardous materials firm in Reidsville, N.C.

William M. Ewing Jr. is a safety and health con-
sultant for advanced programs with the Georgia
Institute of Technology Engineering and Experi-
ment Station. A book that Ewing co-authored will
be available in September. Entitled Asbestos
Abatement: Procedures and Practices, the volume
describes techniques for safely removing asbestos-
containing materials from buildings. Ewing was
one of the founders of The National Asbestos
Council. He and his wife, Denise, live in Atlanta.

Dr. Mark Grabowsky received the M.D. degree
from the Medical College of Virginia and has
begun his residency in the Lynchburg Family Prac-
tice Residency Program. He participated in the
Medical Ethics Institute on the W&L campus in
May.

Thomas D. Heldman has left Price Waterhouse
and started his own accounting firm in Cincinnati.

Dr. E. Brewington Houston Jr. is a resident in
anesthesiology at Parkland Memorial Hospital in
Dallas.

Dr. Robert H. Jackson is an instructor in medicine
at the Louisiana State University Medical College
and attending physician at the LSU Hospital in
Shreveport.

Peter C. Keefe is second vice president of
Johnston, Lemon and Co., Inc., a Washington,
D.C., investment banking and securities
brokerage.

Kevin T. Lamb left the U.S. Department of Justice
office in June 1985 to become an associate in the
Los Angeles law office of Jones, Day, Reavis and
Pogue.

Robert J. Marvin is an associate with the New
York law firm of Davis, Market, Dwyer and
Edwards.

D. Stowe Rose is an attorney in the Paris office
of Iacino and Partners, a law firm specializing in
international corporate practice.

Thomas M. Trezise has become a partner in the
Baltimore-based law firm of Semmes, Bowen &
Semmes.

Dr. George R. Triplett is practicing anesthesiology
and pain management at the Washington County
Hospital in Hagerstown, Md. He lives there with
his wife, Mary Ann.

James M. Underhill is now a partner in the Tram-
mell Crow Co. He runs the North Dallas office
and oversees leasing and development.

1979
MARRIAGE; Charles D. Mohrmann and Mary
Kay Fennell on April 12, 1986. Mohrmann is
associated with Compressor Engineering Corp. in
Houston, where the couple lives.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John C. Boutiette, a son,
Daniel James, on Feb. 10, 1986. They live in Kan-
sas City, Mo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Y. McGehee, a
son, Benjamin Morgan, on Nov. 25, 1985.
McGehee and his family live in Walpole, Mass.
He was recently appointed vice president and team
leader for a relationship banking group in Boston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Rentschler Jr.,
a son, Thomas Beckett III, on May 9, 1985, in
Hamilton, Ohio.

D. Keith Calhoun is practicing law with the firm
of Adams, Gardner, Ellis and Inglesby in Savan-
nah, Ga.

36 —- W&L

 

Michael J. Doody is working for Master Builders
Inc., a division of Sandoz Ltd., and is living in
Annapolis, Md.

Dr. David R. Scott is in his second year of
obstetrics and gynecology residency at the Univer-
sity of California and lives in San Diego.

1980

MARRIAGE: Leslie A. Cotter Jr. and Caroline
Elizabeth Webster on April 5, 1986, in Allendale,
S.C. William M. Webster IV, ’79, the bride’s
brother, was a member of the wedding party. The
couple lives in Columbia, S.C.

MARRIAGE: Kelly M. Hollins and Gwyn LeDuke
on Feb. 15, 1986, in Columbus, Ind. The couple
lives in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE; Robert W. Pearce Jr. and Pamela
M. McCain on May 4, 1985, in Columbia, S.C.
About 20 W&L alumni attended and/or were in
the wedding, including Rick McCain, ’74, the
bride’s brother. The couple lives in Charleston,
S.C., where Pearce is a vice president for Finan-
cial Assistant Management, Inc.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Morrison, a
daughter, Rosalyn Bates, on July 7, 1985, in
Charleston, S.C. Morrison is a resident in surgery.

Dr. G. Brian Bauer is in his second year of residen-
cy in internal medicine at the University of Wiscon-
sin Hospital.

Dr. Carl E. Lowder Jr. is a first-year resident in
neurosurgery at the Louisiana State University
Medical Center in New Orleans.

Vail T. Thorne is serving an appointment as law
clerk for Judge Jesse W. Curtis, United States
District Court in Los Angeles. He will begin work-
ing as an associate with a Washington, D.C., law
firm in the fall.

~ White still in space race

Robert M. White II, ’38, editor and
publisher of the Mexico Ledger in Mex-
ico, Mo., is one of 40 national
semifinalists in the competition to become
_ the first journalist in space.
_ As reported in the May/June issue of

the Alumni Magazine, White and Lewis

: oe Cope, °55, of the
Minneapolis Star
and Tribune, were
among the 100
regional finalists
who survived the
first round of the
national competi-
tion, which drew
more than 1,700
applications.

White, who is

71, is the oldest candidate still in the com-
petition, just ahead of veteran broadcast
journalist Walter Cronkite, 70. White and
Cronkite once worked together for
United Press International in Kansas
City.

 

1981
MARRIAGE: Robert D. Binder and Robyn M.
Birman on June 23, 1985. Binder is an accoun-
ting manager for Pan American Financial Corp.
and lives in Reston, Va.

MARRIAGE: N. Jeffrey Herdelin and Jamey
Twitchell on Aug. 17, 1985, in Haddonfield, N.J.
Herdelin works with Pacemaker/Seidelmann
Yachts, manufacturer of power and sail yachts in
Berlin, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Claude B. Colonna Jr., a
daughter, Meagan Elizabeth, on Dec. 26, 1984.
Colonna is a financial supervisor for General
Foods in Dover, Del.

Blas P. Arroyo is a principal with the Charlotte,
N.C., law firm of Bell, Seltzer, Park & Gibson,
the largest firm in the Southeast specializing in pa-
tent, trademark, and copyright law.

D. Scott Baker is a sales agent with Baker Real
Estate in Lexington. He recently graduated from
the Realtors Institute of Virginia.

1982
MARRIAGE: David R. Cordell and Martha L.
Tisdale on Aug. 31, 1985, in Monroe, La. They
live in Tulsa, Okla., where Cordell is an associate
with the law firm of Conner and Winters.

Stephenson B. Andrews moved to New York Ci-
ty in March to work as the curator for a private
collector. He will be managing the collections of
the patron’s homes in Pittsburgh, New York, Lon-
don, and Monaco in addition to a house museum
in London.

S. Scott Barr is a loan officer with McLean Finan-
cial Corp. and lives in Annandale, Va., with his
wife, Kathleen.

William T. Cocke IV is a government affairs assis-
tant for Sonat Inc., a natural gas and oil services

 

The next round of the procedure is
scheduled for early this fall when White
and the other semifinalists will be inter-
viewed by a 15-member National Selec-
tion Panel, which will also review their
applications. At that point, five finalists
will be named and will undergo physical
examinations and interviews conducted
by NASA officials before the primary and
back-up journalist in space candidates are
named.

The successful candidates will be
trained by NASA at the Johnson Space
Center at Houston to fly aboard the space
shuttle after those flights resume.

After learning of his selection, White
was quoted in the Mexico Ledger as in-
dicating his enthusiasm for the space pro-
gram had not been diminished by the
Challenger disaster.

An Associated Press dispatch quoted
White as saying: ‘‘I’m so excited about
it, I can’t tell you. It’s marvelous news
and a great honor. It’s not just the ride,
it’s the story. I’d love to cover it.’’

 

 

SO

 

company with headquarters in Birmingham, Ala.
Cocke is based in Washington, D.C., and lives in
McLean, Va.

Michael J. Collier is stationed at Fort Carson,
Colo., where he is executive officer of the 4th Avia-
tion Battalion.

James B. Dalton III is in the master of science
degree program in geology at Florida State Univer-
sity and is working as a hydrogeologic assistant
with the Northwest Florida Water Management
District.

John D. Harris graduated from the M.B.A. pro-
gram at Emory University in May 1984 and is
employed in the Atlanta office of the accounting
firm Ernst and Whinney.

James S. Kaplan trades municipal bonds for First
Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

Stephen M. King is currently a real estate attorney
with Smith & Schnacke L.P.A. in Dayton, Ohio.

Kevin T. Lamb (See 1978.)

Douglas R. Linton III has been promoted to cap-
tain in the U.S. Army. Linton is stationed with
the 16th Signal Battalion at Fort Hood, Texas.

John B. McKee II is a project engineer for Brown
and Root Marine in the offshore pipeline division
at Belle Chasse, La. Before moving to New
Orleans, he spent two years earning a B.S. degree
in civil engineering at Mississippi State Universi-
ty and a year working for Brown and Root in
Houston.

Charles H. Prioleau is in his first year at the
University of Texas Graduate School of Business.

J. Burruss Riis practices law with the firm of
Vickers, Riis, Murray and Curran in Mobile, Ala.

James L. Shepherd is serving as editor-in-chief of
the South Texas Law Review. He begins a one-
year term in August as briefing attorney for the
Supreme Court of Texas. He lives in Houston.

John R. Smith is an account executive with Advo-
System Inc., a division of John Blair & Co. Smith
lives in Virginia Beach.

1983
MARRIAGE: Stewart P. Kerr and Cynthia
Lamons on Sept. 28, 1985. The couple lives in
Washington, D.C., where Kerr is a systems
engineer with IBM.

Kraig A. Conn has returned from his tour of du-
ty with the U.S. Army in West Germany and is
attending the University of Florida College of Law.

W. Henry Langhorne is an honor board member
and president of the junior class at Tulane Medical
School in New Orleans.

James F. Londrey is in his second year of dental
school at the Medical College of Virginia.

David W. Moore and his wife, Karen, live in Col-
umbia, S.C., where he attends graduate school in
the toxicology program of the department of en-
vironmental health sciences at the University of
South Carolina.

Bonnie L. Paul is associated with the Harrison-
burg, Va., law firm of Litten, Sipe and Miller.

D. Stowe Rose (See 1978.)

H. Bowen Woodruff is studying British history
and Shakespeare at Oxford for the summer as part
of the Alabama at Oxford Program. In the fall,
he will begin studying law at the University of
South Carolina.

Darryl K. Woodson is a reporter and photographer
with The News-Gazette in Lexington. He lives in
Natural Bridge.

 

1984

Jeffery H. Boal is an advertising account executive
on the HBO/Cinemax account for Ted Bates in
New York.

Geoffrey R. B. Carey has been promoted to assis-
tant manager of shareholder services at T. Rowe
Price Associates, an investment counseling firm
in Baltimore.

Richard Kopelman has completed his second year
of law school at the University of Georgia in
Athens.

Scott C. Mason Jr. is a television news reporter
for WXII-TV 12, the NBC affiliate in
Winston-Salem.

Angus M. McBryde III is a corporate banking
representative with First Union National Bank in
Charlotte, N.C.

Mark C. Mitschow has entered the M.B.A. pro-
gram at the State University of New York at
Buffalo.

1st Lt. Stephen J.A. Smith is an information
systems-electronics officer with the 9th Engineer
Battalion in West Germany.

M. Eugene Wood III has been elected banking of-
ficer of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N.A.
Wood works in the Asheville, N.C., corporate
banking department.

1985

MARRIAGE; Louise J. Browner and Charles A.
Blanchard on Nov. 30, 1985. The couple lives in
Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Gregory M. Dennin and Margaret
Van Ehen on Sept. 14, 1985. Dennin is an associate
at the Albany, N.Y., law firm of Krolick &
DeGraff.

MARRIAGE: Glen O. Jackson and Claire Kisialus
on July 27, 1985, in Dublin, Ga. They live in
Atlanta where Jackson is an assistant account ex-

ecutive for A. Brown Olmstead Associates, the
largest independent public relations firm in the
Southeast.

Stephen H. Bendheim is a first-year medical stu-
dent at the Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond.

Ensign Paul A. Casey graduated from the Naval
Officers Candidate School in Newport, R.I., in
February 1986. He will receive additional train-
ing as a purchasing officer at the University of
Georgia. He attended OCS with classmate Robert
Schlegel, who is in the next graduating class.

Henry W. Dewing is a supervisor for C&P
telephone company in the Northern Virginia
Special Services Center and lives in Falls Church.

Lt. Paul A. Driscoll has graduated from the in-
fantry officer basic course and the basic airborne
course. He is now a TOW platoon leader in the
4th Battalion, 187th Infantry at Fort Campbell,
Ky.
Gilbert F. Dukes III is attending the University of
Alabama School of Law in Tuscaloosa.

Terrance J. Dunn is an associate lawyer with the
Los Angeles firm of Morgan, Lewis and Bockius.

Benjamin F. Emanuel III is living in Bronx, N.Y..,
and works as a tax associate for Coopers and
Lybrand.

Thomas C. Imeson III is with Westvaco Corp. in
New York.

Fred A. Lackey is a management trainee with
Roadway Express in Kernersville, N.C.

Richard E. McCann Jr. is a credit analyst at the
Barnett Bank in Jacksonville, Fla.

John C. Morrow is an attorney with the Birm-
ingham, Ala., law firm of Thomas, Taliaferro,
Forman, Burr and Murray.

Robert D. Pearson is working for Humana, Inc.,
in Louisville, Ky.

W&L 37

 

Robert S. Sloan is working at Toyo Shokin
Securities in Tokyo.

Edward M. Smith is a commercial credit analyst
for Dominion Bank in Roanoke, Va.

Daniel L. Tatum is enrolled at the University of
Houston Law Center and is clerking for Brown,
Herman, Scott, Dean & Miles in Fort Worth dur-
ing the summer.

David A. Vogt is a staff accountant for The
Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., and lives
in Arlington.

Charles F. Wreaks IV is an advertising sales
representative with Playboy magazine and lives in
New York.

Marshall R. Young lives in Fort Worth and works
as a geologist for Young Oil Co.

 

Have Some News?

Let your classmates and friends in on
the latest news in your life. Send us infor-
mation for a class note. Write: Class Notes,
W&L Alumni Magazine, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1916

William Vivian Groome, retired purchasing agent
and accountant for Nivens Lumber and Construc-
tion Co. of Charlotte, N.C., died March 26, 1986.
He served as treasurer for the Carolinas Lumber
and Building Dealers Association before retiring
in 1965. He was a World War I veteran who was
awarded the Purple Heart and was a member of
various Masonic bodies.

oie

James Augustine Lee, retired managing editor for
McGraw-Hill, Inc., died Feb. 6, 1986, in Rich-
mond, Texas. Lee served in the Chemical Warfare
Service during World War I. He authored
numerous technical books and publications and
retired from McGraw-Hill in 1958. He was a
member of the University Club, Fort Bend Coun-
try Club, American Institute of Chemical
Engineers, and American Chemical Society and
was a Knight Templar, Trinity Commandery,

Elmhurst, N.Y.
1926

Guy Noel May, retired court reporter for the 11th
Judicial District of Arkansas, died April 21, 1986,
in Pine Bluff, Ark. May worked in his father’s in-
surance firm, F. G. May and Sons, after gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee. In 1931 he became
a court reporter and served in that capacity until
his retirement in 1977. A member of Trinity
Episcopal Church, May worked closely with his
wife in youth work in Pine Bluff for many years
and assisted her in directing the Teen Town which
was established in 1956 for the youth of that area.

1929

Harry Easton Godwin, jazz and blues promoter,
musicologist and jazz historian, died May 27, 1986,
in Memphis, Tenn. Godwin, a W. C. Handy

38 | —- W&L

historian, assisted and promoted many well-known
jazz artists and received a certificate of merit from
the Tennessee Historical Association on May 12,
1986, for his significant contributions to the study
and preservation of Tennessee historical heritage.
He was a vice president of the Memphis Cotton
Carnival for many years and arranged for the
music during carnival events. Godwin was a
member of the Memphis and Shelby County Film,
Tape and Music Commission, the American Socie-
ty of Composers and Publishers, and the St. Louis
Catholic Church.

George Henry Goodwin, retired owner of the
George H. Goodwin Real Estate Co., died May
3, 1986, in Bastrop, La. He served in World War
II and held the rank of colonel. Goodwin was
mayor of Bastrop from 1949 to 1953, and served
on the board of directors of the Bastrop National
Bank for 40 years. He owned and operated the two
local theaters and was engaged in the insurance
and real estate business for many years.

Philip Wilbur Glickstein, retired salesman for the
Callerman Co., died May 23, 1986, in Oak Park,
Ill.

1939

Robert Earle Milligan Jr. died May 2, 1986, in
Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. Milligan began work-
ing at the Seaman-Patrick Paper Co. in September
1939 after his graduation from Wayne State
University in Detroit. He continued with that com-
pany in sales and also as secretary until his retire-
ment in 1975.

Joshua Warren White Jr., member of the Virginia
House of Delegates from 1962 to 1979, died Nov.
21, 1985, in Norfolk, Va. In the early 1960s, White
guided to passage the bills creating the Eastern
Virginia Medical School and other health services
in the Hampton Roads area. A lieutenant com-
mander during World War II, White joined the
Old Dominion Paper Co. of Norfolk in 1939 and
served as president and treasurer of it and the
Dillard Paper Co. when the two merged and re-
mained a consultant for the business after his
retirement in 1982. He was active with many civic
organizations including Norfolk State University,
and Medical Center Hospitals and was a commis-
sioner of the Eastern Virginia Medical Authori-
ty. White was a member and former deacon of the
First Presbyterian Church.

194]

Hugh Gustavus Ashcraft Jr., former president and
board chairman of Harris-Teeter Supermarkets,
died April 18, 1986, in Charlotte, N.C. He served
for five years in the Air Corps during World War
II. As the pilot of ‘‘Southern Comfort,’’ a B-17
bomber, he was returning from a 1943 mission
over Germany in a bullet-riddled plane when he
told his crew, ‘“Those who want to, please pray.”’
Later two songwriters who read of the flight back
to England composed the top hit Coming In On
a Wing and a Prayer. Ashcraft joined R. S.
Dickson & Co. in 1954 and in 1973 became presi-
dent of Harris-Teeter. He was a member of the
Charlotte Rotary Club, a Meredith College trustee,
past president of the North Carolina Food Dealers
Association, and an active member of the Park
Road Baptist Church.

James Ramsey Burkholder III, a former president
and chief executive officer of Almstedt Bros. Inc.,
a Louisville, Ky., investment firm, died May 13,
1986. Burkholder began his business career in 1939
as a representative of Equitable Securities Corp.

in New Orleans. He started at Almstedt as a
salesman and later became a registered represen-
tative. Burkholder resigned from Almstedt in 1948
to enter a general partnership in a securities firm
in Lexington, Ky. In 1957 he was appointed
manager of the municipal-bond department of
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane’s Louisville
office, and left four years later to become a general
partner of Almstedt Bros. He retired as president
and chief executive officer in 1980. Burkholder was
an Army Air Corps veteran of World War II and
a member of the Pendennis Club and the Second
Presbyterian Church.

1942

Judge John Alexander, who retired as a general
district judge in January 1986, died May 25, 1986,
in Fauquier County, Va. After serving with the
Army in World War II, Alexander practiced law
in Fairfax, Va., with the firm of Alexander, Kel-
ly & Jennings. He moved to Warrenton in 1957.
Alexander served as state senator for four years,
as Fauquier County commonwealth’s attorney
from 1967 to 1973, and as a substitute judge in
the 20th District from 1974 to 1978. In 1980 he
was appointed general district judge. Alexander
was a member of the Fauquier Club in Warren-
ton and the Commonwealth and Downtown clubs
in Richmond.

Donald Simcox Carnahan Jr., a radiologist from
Alexandria, La., died Dec. 12, 1985. Carnahan
graduated from the University of Pittsburgh
Medical School in 1944 and interned at the
Allegheny General Hospital in Pittsburgh. He serv-
ed as a medical officer with the United States Navy
from 1945 to 1948 and later opened a general prac-
tice residency at Butler County Memorial Hospital.
Carnahan served as a resident in radiology at St.
Vincent’s Hospital in New York and was a fellow
in radiation therapy at the Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center in New York. In 1951
Carnahan moved to Alexandria, La. and assum-
ed directorship of the radiology department of the
Baptist Hospital. He served on the staffs of LaSalle
Parish Hospital, Central Louisiana State Hospital,
Pinecrest State School and was a partner and presi-
dent of Rapides Radiology Associates, Inc. Car-
nahan was one of the founders of the Rapides
Symphony Orchestra, serving as president and an
active performing member.

1943

Eastham Waller Dudley, Trustee Emeritus of
Washington and Lee and a prominent Northern
_ Virginia attorney, died May
8, 1986, in an Alexandria,
Va., hospital. He received
his B.A. degree in English
and, following service in the
U.S. Navy during World
. War II, returned to Lex-
-—™ ington to earn his law degree
“— from W&L. A partner in the

"= Alexandria law firm of
Booth, Prichard and Dudley, he was extremely ac-
tive in the Virginia Bar Association, serving as its
president in 1971. He was also a fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers and the
American Bar Foundation. Active in many civic
organizations, he was chairman of the Alexandria
Industrial Development Authority, director of the
Alexandria National Bank, a director of the First
American Bank of Virginia, a vestryman of St.
Paul’s Church, and a trustee of the Virginia Col-
lege Fund. He was a member of Omicron Delta

N

 

 

Kappa and Phi Delta Phi honorary fraternities.
Dudley served as president of the Washington and
Lee Law Alumni Association. In 1971, he became
the second Trustee to be nominated to that post
in a ballot of the University’s alumni. He was a
member of the Board for 12 years. He is survived
by his wife, Letty Waugh Dudley; a daughter,
Carter Dudley Flemming of Alexandria; and two
sons, Waller T. (Beau) Dudley, ’74, ’79L, of Alex-
andria, and Luther H. Dudley II, ’76, of Charlotte,
N.C.

Charles William Swinford, chancellor of the
Episcopal Diocese of Lexington, Ky., died April
27, 1986. Swinford, a member of the executive
council and board of trustees of the diocese, had
been chancellor since 1980, previously serving as
assistant chancellor. He was a professor of canon
law and ecclesiastical policy at the Episcopal
Theological Seminary of Kentucky and was a
member of the seminary’s board of trustees. Swin-
ford served as a Fayette County commissioner
from 1958 to 1965 and was a senior member of
Stoll, Kennon and Park law firm. He was past
president of the Fayette County Bar Association
and a member of the Kentucky and American Bar
associations and the American Judicature Society.

1945

Joseph Michael Zamoiski II, chairman of the
board for the Baltimore-based Zamoiski Co., a
wholesale distributing firm, died April 27, 1986.
Zamoiski had worked for the family firm since the
end of World War II and was instrumental in its
growth into a 500-employee consumer goods
distributing company. During World War II he
served with the 5th Air Force in the South Pacific.
Active in politics, Zamoiski served on President
John F. Kennedy’s inaugural committee, was an
adviser to the Small Business Administration in
the early 1960s, and worked on President Lyndon
B. Johnson’s election campaign. He received a
presidential commendation for community service
in 1974 from President Gerald R. Ford. Associated
with Big Brothers for more than 20 years,
Zamoiski was honored by having the Washington
headquarters building named after him. He was
a 32nd degree Mason and a member of the
American Legion, the Rotary Club, and the
Washington Bullets advisory board.

1947

Max Hale Dennis, former member of the Ohio
House of Representatives and Senate, died April
24, 1986, in Cincinnati. Beginning his long career
of public service as a lawyer, he served as an assis-
tant attorney general of Ohio and was at one time
city solicitor of Wilmington. Dennis served as a
representative to the Ohio House of Represen-
tatives and served five terms as Ohio state senator
from 1963 to 1977. He raised standardbred race
horses at Oaklawn Farm and became involved in
the Clinton County Fair program as leader of the
Clinton County Horseman’s Association. Dennis
was a member of the board of trustees at Central
State University and a proponent of development
of the Wilmington Air Park.

1948

Max Hale Dennis (See 1947).

1950

Clovis William Moomaw of Broadway, Va., died
May 9, 1986. Moomaw worked for the National
Fruit Product Co. in Timberville, Va., before join-
ing the Shen-Valley Meat Packers. At the time of
his death, he was employed by Carrs Tire

Distributors in Harrisonburg. He was a veteran
of World War II.

John Victor Pearson of Luray, Va., and former-
ly of Lexington, died April 9, 1986. He was a
retired International Harvester farm equipment
dealer. Pearson was a veteran of World War II,
serving for four years in England. He was a
member of the Scandian Grove Lutheran Church
and a Paul Harris Fellow in the Luray Rotary
Club.

Edward Polk Tatum Smith Jr., a Roanoke, Va.,
attorney and president of Donner Corp., died May
16, 1986. Smith, a graduate of the U.S. Naval
Academy and George Washington University,
moved to Roanoke in 1963 as president of Univer-
sal Ball Co. In 1969 he joined the Donner Foun-
dation, which awards grants primarily for medical
research. He also practiced business law in
Roanoke. Smith served as a Navy lieutenant in
submarine service in World War II and had been
on the North Cross School Board.

1955

William Edward Moore Jr. of Waynesboro, Va.,
died May 28, 1986. Moore was a member of Kap-
pa Alpha fraternity and was a retired cataloguer
for the Waynesboro Public Library. He was a
member of St. John’s Episcopal Church.

James Whittier Lewis, headmaster of the Holton-
Arms School in Bethesda, Md., died June 9, 1986,
at George Washington University Hospital. He
was headmaster at Holton-Arms since 1969 and
was previously assistant to the headmaster,
teacher, and coach at The Landon School in
Bethesda. He was also president of the Associa-

tion of Independent Schools of Greater
Washington. A native of New York City, he served
in the U.S. Army in the 1950s. In addition to his
bachelor’s degree from W&L, he earned a master’s
degree in guidance and secondary school ad-
ministration at American University. During his
tenure at Holton-Arms, he presided over the con-
struction of a new library, art room, and computer
center and an upgrading of the academic program.

1961

Dr. James Allen Vann III, authority on early
modern German history and professor of history
at Emory University, died May 4, 1986. Vann, a
summa cum laude graduate of Washington and
Lee, also earned degrees from Harvard Universi-
ty. He taught at the University of Michigan for
15 years before joining the Emory faculty. He was
the recipient of several fellowships including the
Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, Kennedy, and the
American Council of Learned Studies. Vann was
inducted as an American Associate into the
Venerable Order of the Knight of the Hospital of
St. John in Jerusalem by command of Queen
Elizabeth II. He served on the advisory commit-
tee of the Birmingham Museum of Art and was
a member of the Church of our Savior in Atlanta.

1967

Jon Allan Kerr, a Leesburg, Va., attorney, died
March 13, 1986, of a heart attack. Prior to open-
ing his law office in Leesburg, Kerr was a partner
in the Washington, D.C., firm of Hudson, Creyle,
Koehler, Tacke & Bixler. He received his
undergraduate degree from the University of
Virginia.

 

W&L 39

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

Defending the Theatre

EDITOR:

As a 1985 graduate of the theatre program at
Washington and Lee, I felt that I had to respond
to Mr. Frankenberger’s letter (May/June issue of
the Alumni Magazine).

To say that the situation at the Troubadour is
perfect would be a disservice to the program and
to W&L in general. But to imply, as Mr.
Frankenberger does, that the program is a joke
is an even greater disservice.

I can’t speak for the program that Mr.
Frankenberger went through, but I can, and will,
speak of the education I received as a theatre ma-
jor at W&L.

First, I was taught the classics that Mr.
Frankenberger says are missing. In courses taught
by Professors (Albert C.) Gordon and (Joseph)
Martinez, as well as associated English courses
taught by Professor (George) Ray, we studied the
works of Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides,
Shakespeare, Moliere, Wilde, Shaw, O’Neill,
Wilder, Williams, and others. Theatre literature
and history are not areas that the department
overlooks.

While the theatre may not be at the forefront
of University life, it is not an uncommon sight to
see administration officials, deans, department
heads, and other University personnel in our au-
dience on any given night. For the most part, they
are interested in what we are doing and have many
useful and insightful comments, questions, and
criticisms of what is taking place in the theatre.

I cannot judge Rob Mish’s comparison of
W&L’s program with graduate school, but I think
I will find out more when I begin work this fall
on my own M.A. degree. I do know, however, that
my education was sufficient to get into graduate
school and to get a teaching assistantship.

About the only truth I found in Mr.
Frankenberger’s letter was in some of his com-
ments about the Troubadour. No one knows bet-
ter than the theatre majors the problems inherent
in working there. These problems taught us to
think and ultimately solve them, which I believe
is the purpose of any University department.

In closing, I have to object to Mr.
Frankenberger’s denigration of four faculty
members he has probably never worked closely
with. After having worked for four years with Al
Gordon, Tom Ziegler, Joseph Martinez, and Skip
Epperson, I can readily attest to their ability and
professionalism. I think I speak for others as well
as myself when I say that I don’t consider the work
I did for four years a joke, and if Mr.
Frankenberger would care to take me up on that
point, I’m available.

BRIAN P. O’RIORDAN, 785
Tempe, Ariz.

On South Africa

EDITOR:

February 8, 1986, is a date which shall live in
shame on the Washington and Lee campus. It is
a day in which its leaders turned their backs on
the aspirations for freedom which have been enter-

40 W&L

tained by the tyrannically repressed black majority
in South Africa.

This act which was taken on February 8, 1986,
has signaled to the world that the spirit of the old
South (sanctioning profit, comfort, and fiduciary
benefit for the few at the expense of slavery,
repression, and apartheid) is alive and well at
Washington and Lee. This spirit is present
although we are on the threshold of the 21st
century.

We persevered in our request [for divestment]
with the hope that reason and sensitivity to the
principles of simple justice would move the
Trustees of a small modern university to exercise
a unique opportunity for leverage for the cause
of a subjugated people.

Now we fear this unenlightened Board decision
will filter down to other areas of our University.
It is possible that good faculty members will leave
discouraged while at the same time leaving a rem-
nant which is incompetent to teach the dreams of
freedom and reason to the upcoming generation.
We feel at this time that we cannot in good con-
science recommend that our children or the
children of others enroll in Washington and Lee.

JOHNNY E. Morrison, ’74, ’77L
Portsmouth, Va.

RALPH W. Buxton, 65
Portsmouth, Va.

OwFEN R. EASLEY JR., ’45
Chesapeake, Va.

EDITOR:

I was disappointed in the Alumni Magazine’s
reporting of the Board of Trustees’ decision not
to alter the University’s policy with respect to com-
panies doing business in South Africa. You did
report that the Trustees stated that while ‘‘the
South African policy of apartheid is uncon-
scionable and intolerable, divestment is not the best
way to help effect a change in that policy.’’ You
did not report why the Trustees feel that divest-
ment is not the best way to help effect a change
in that policy, and I am very disappointed that you
didn’t.

Would I be correct in assuming that the real
reason is that the Board of Trustees doesn’t have
the moral courage to make the hard decision to
divest? I tend toward this assumption because you
reported that the Trustees chose to examine ways
in which the University ‘‘as teaching institution and
not as investor’’ could respond to the South
African situation. This sounds very much like a
week rationalization. It sounds like the Trustees
have employed a double standard. Why can’t the
University be consistent in its policies both as a
teaching institution and as an investor?

There appears to be a blatant hypocrisy here,
one which is not only at odds with the liberal arts

 

 

Correspondence should be addressed to
The Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

tradition of the University, but which also
represents an obviously flawed process of
reasoning.

I won’t argue that it wouldn’t be a good idea
for the University ‘‘as a teaching institution’’ to
explore scholarship opportunities for black South
African students, sponsor lectures on South
Africa, etc., as the Board of Trustees has sug-
gested. It is a good idea. But these measures by
themselves amount to little more than a gesture.
It is perfectly obvious that they won’t do a hun-
dredth, not a thousandth, as much good as the
divestment of thirteen and a half million dollars
of University funds. Can’t the funds be profitably
reinvested?

I very much need a more complete explanation.
Without it I must assume that the University’s
policy with regard to this situation is either morally
dishonest or stupid. Again, my original
question—why does the Board of Trustees feel that
divestment is not the best way to help effect a
change in apartheid?

I feel that the University is passing up an ex-
cellent opportunity to take a leadership role in a
crucial area of human affairs. I would hate to think
that the liberal arts ideal at Washington and Lee
is really little more than something country club
boys play around with when they aren’t counting
their money. I know it is much more than that to
the great teachers I had at W&L, many of whom
are still there.

Rurus D. KINNEY, ’69

Jacksonville, Ala.

(Editor’s note: Anyone wishing to obtain the com-

plete copy of the Board of Trustees’ statement on

South Africa may do so by writing the Alumni

Magazine, Reid Hall, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, VA 24450)

The Hitler Quandary

EDITOR:

It is fortunate to have received a liberal educa-
tion, which the author of ‘“The Hitler Quandary’”’
(May/June Alumni Magazine) salutes in his arti-
cle, for without it one may believe the wrongful
underpinnings postulated by the author.

Although the article is exhaustively false in its
premises and speculations, it is instructive without
also being exhaustive to examine at least one of
its silly notions. The article reckons Hitler as the
greatest figure of the 20th century. Einstein, also
a German of this century, is not as ‘‘great’’ as
Hitler in the ‘‘value-free’’ sense in which the arti-
cle claims to measure. Either the great figure stan-
dard is not ‘‘value-free’’ as the author portends
or Hitler is a midget when compared to many peo-
ple in his time and in his state.

Without addressing the other wrongful notions
presented in the article it is hoped that the author
can do something useful such as provide informa-
tion on Wehrmacht officer Kurt Waldheim. On
the eve of the 40th anniversary of the Nuremberg
War Crimes Tribunal, abstract postulation of the
benefits derived from the second World War is,
at best, misplaced mental masturbation.

Davip W. MELDMAN, ’79L
West Bloomfield, Mich.

The Generals

Follow

This Fall

Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.
Nov.
Nov.

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.
Nov.

FOOTBALL

13—Emory & Henry
27—Centre
4—Randolph-Macon
11—Maryville
18—Hampden-Sydney
25—U. of the South
1—Bridgewater
8—Ursinus
15—Allegheny

WATER POLO

12-13—‘‘Fall Classic’’
19-20—S.E. Varsity Invit.
27-28—Va. St. Champ.
3-5—Southern League
10-12—N.E. Varsity Invit.
18-19—Southern League
24-26—USWP In. Champ.
2—So. League Champ.
7-9—Eastern Champ.

HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away

HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
TBA
Away
Away

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.

| Nov.

Sept.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.

Nov.

SOCCER

17—Shenandoah
20—NC Wesleyan Tourn.
21—NC Wesleyan Tourn.
24—Mary Washington
27—U. of the South
30—Newport News App.
4—Greensboro
8—Roanoke
11—Messiah
15S—V.M.I.
18—Gettysburg
21—Eastern Mennonite
25—Hampden-Sydney
29—Lynchburg
1—Maryville
3— Averett

27—Mary Washington/
Washington
4—Norfolk State/
Roanoke
11—Catholic
18—Va. Commonwealth
25—Bridgewater/
W. Va. Tech

1—Lynchburg/Hamp.-Sydney/

E. Mennonite
8—ODAC Champ.

 

Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away

Away
TBA

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.

27—Emory & Henry
4—Norfolk State

11—Div. II & III State Meet

18—Va. Commonwealth
25—West Virginia Tech

1—Lynchburg/E. Mennonite

Mary Washington

HOME
Away
TBA
Away
Away

Away

The Alumni Magazine of ! aoe Me Brown
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY i teh es Cee Oeey
(USPS 667-040) ‘

Lexington, Virginia 24450 es

 

>
Whentite cee

 

 

Homecoming ’86

and

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion
October 17-18

Friday, October 17
e 11:30 a.m.—The John Randolph Tucker Lecture, Lewis Hall

e 5:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming Queen Court, Alumni House
¢ 8:00 p.m.—Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

Saturday, October 18

¢ 9:00 a.m.—Water Polo—Generals host Southern League tournament, Twombly Pool
e 11:30 a.m.—Alumni Luncheon, Athletic Fields

e 1:30 p.m.—Football: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney, Wilson Field

3:00 p.m.—Soccer: Generals vs. Gettysburg, Smith Field

4:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception, Alumni House

For more information, write:
Homecoming ’86
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

> alent
os Slee

nn Oe Ae ot

— CS ee Soe

