LA] &

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee nenigiry ts

 

 

 

%

he man sitting in the glare of the

kleig lights is the 99th Justice of
the U.S. Supreme Court, Lewis F.
Powell Jr., ’29, ’?31L. This photograph
was taken at Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee hearings on Powell’s nomina-
tion as an Associate Justice. That was
in 1971. Some alumni may recall that
this photo appeared on the cover of
the December 1971 edition of the
Alumni Magazine. Justice Powell was
back in front of those kleig lights in
June, this time to announce his retire-
ment from the Supreme Court. Right
up to the last minute this space was to
have contained a story about Justice
Powell, a much different story from
the one that was bannered across the
front pages in late June. The story
that was to have appeared here
described a ceremony in May when a
portrait of Justice Powell was unveiled
in front of Lewis Hall, the Univer-

 

sity’s law school building. In fact, this
magazine was only a day away from
being shipped to our printer in Cincin-
nati, when, on June 26, Justice Powell
made his announcement. Happily, we
were able to make some last-minute
adjustments. These include shifting the
story on the portrait dedication from
this page to page 22. In addition, we
were able to secure permission to
reprint a wonderfully appropriate
piece that Richmond Times-Dispatch
columnist Charles McDowell, °48,
wrote in the immediate aftermath of
Justice Powell’s announcement. That
begins on page 20. And we have add-
ed a brief sampling of the editorial
comment that Justice Powell’s depar-
ture has elicited. We would only add
to those assessments of his remarkable
career our profound appreciation for
Justice Powell’s service to his country.
The Editors

Photo by A. Michael Phillips, ’64

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee _

Volume 62, Number 4, August 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor
ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
Patrick HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73, President
Columbia, S.C.

WaynE D. McGrew Jrp., ’52, Vice President
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, Treasurer
New Orleans, La.

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

W. NaT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

C. HowarRD CapPIiTo, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., 69
Dallas, Texas

CLay T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JoHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

RoBEeRT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

EUGENE C. PERRY JR., 775, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

JOHN W. RoBINSON IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 753
Darien, Conn.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

On

the Inside

 

 

Turning the Page

 

Another View of Alma Mater

 

10

Town and Gown

 

16

Hizzoner, the Professor

 

20

The Supreme Alumnus

 

24

A Splendid Spring

 

28

The W&L Gazette

 

33

The Bookshelf

 

34

Alumni News

 

38

Class Notes

 

45

In Memoriam

 

On the Cover: The University’s mace rests in its familiar place in
front of the podium during commencement exercises. Photograph
by William Strode.

 

Turning the Page

 

Rain Fails to Dampen Yet Another Historic

Commencement

 

ll morning long threatening gray
skies had hung low over Lexington.
As the graduation processional
began and Washington and Lee prepared to
turn the page on another new chapter in its
long history, family members and graduates
alike turned anxious eyes toward the clouds,
wondering whether the rain would hold off.

For a time it looked as though the
University’s traditional good luck with com-
mencement weather (it always seems to
threaten, but seems never to rain) would
prevail once again. But as the first group of
black-robed students stood to receive their
diplomas, the first drops began to spatter the
crowd and a colorful collection of umbrellas
suddenly sprouted on the Front Campus.

The summer shower was mercifully brief,
however, and President John D. Wilson’s
admonition to keep the genuine sheepskins
dry lest they shrink to become mini-diplomas
was apparently heeded. All in all, the damp
did not appear to diminish the historic
occasion.

What made this commencement his-
toric—and, it must be noted, each W&L
graduating class seems to lay claim to some
distinction all its own—was the presence of
the first women to receive their under-
graduate diplomas.

Sprinkled among the 275 graduating
seniors were four women—Donna DeBonte,
Valerie Kochey, Sydney Marthinson, and
Jodi Ringland—all of whom had transfer-
red to Washington and Lee from other in-

2  W&L

By Anne Coulling

stitutions two years ago when W&L first
began admitting undergraduate women.
(Another woman, Kathleen Plante, was ac-
tually the first to receive her degree, but she
graduated in December and did not return
to participate in the commencement
exercises.)

In his remarks to the graduates, President
Wilson spoke briefly of the event by way of
praising the Class of 1987 for its ‘‘sense of
genuine unity and ...a character of its
own.”’

Said Wilson of the graduating seniors:
“‘Of course, it is an historic class by virtue
of the places it created for young women who
transferred to Washington and Lee two years
ago and today have been awarded the degrees
they earned. . . . You will be remembered by
historians for that, but for those of us closer
to the scene, you will also be remembered for
the help you gave to each other in achieving
that milestone. Good grace and genuine
friendliness carried you through very well—
without solemnity or pretension or bom-
bast.’’

The president of the student body’s Ex-
ecutive Committee, Shayam Menon of Ran-
son, W.Va., also made reference to the
presence of the first women in his traditional
remarks on behalf of his class.

Menon recalled the fact that he and many
of his classmates had opposed the decision
to coeducate the undergraduate divisions and
suggested that while many might still disagree
with that decision ‘‘we, as W&L gentlemen,

have weathered that storm—that struggle—
and we decided to stand by our school. We
accepted the women into Washington and
Lee, and in fact four of them graduate with
us today.’’ |

The Class of ’87, Menon said, remains
loyal to its University. ‘‘Washington and Lee
means so many things to so many different
people,’’ he explained. ‘‘But I think we all
share one thing in common, and that is our
affection for this institution.’’

Wilson, meantime, told the graduates of
what he hoped they would take with them
from their years at Washington and Lee:

‘‘First of all, we hope very much that the
parochial world you inhabited when you
came here has been enlarged. . . . I hope,
too, that you have extended and strengthen-
ed your commitment to the notion that hard
work makes a difference, that ability, or
quickness of mind, can be really useful when
it is accompanied by determination and
discipline and plain hard work... .

‘‘Thirdly, I hope your standards of
honesty and truth-telling have been
strengthened under the Honor System and
in ways that take you beyond the injunctions
against lying, cheating, and steal-
ing. . . . Fourthly, I hope you have learned
something about the power of social institu-
tions of various kinds to multiply your own

Valedictorian Jeffrey S. Mandak (right) and
classmate Sydney E. Marthinson share a laugh dur-
ing commencement exercises.

 

 

 

 

 

ee Oe, “ae

 

 

 

 

Three honorary degrees awarded

Honorary degree recipients were, from left, Fred J. Perry, George Cawkwell, and John W. Hancock Jr.

hree friends of Washington and

Lee received honorary degrees
from the University during under-
graduate commencement exercises.

The recipients were George
Cawkwell of Oxford, England, fellow
in ancient history at University Col-
lege, Oxford; John W. Hancock Jr. of
Roanoke, chairman of the executive
committee of Roanoke Electric Steel;
and Fred J. Perry of Boca Raton,
Fla., three-time Wimbledon champion,
former W&L tennis coach, and
businessman.

A graduate of Christ Church Col-
lege, Oxford, Cawkwell was in-
strumental in establishing exchange
programs for both students and facul-
ty between University College and
Washington and Lee. He is the author
of numerous articles on fourth-century
Athenian statesmen and orators, and
in 1978 he published a biography of
Philip of Macedon.

‘‘George Cawkwell is a rarity
among scholars,’’ the honorary degree
citation read, ‘‘for he has been judged
to have truly changed the face of his
subject; after Cawkwell’s work has
been fully comprehended, Greek
history of the fourth century will
never be the same again.

 

*

‘‘But George Cawkwell’s revered
place in Oxford University has been
earned by his reputation as a teacher
of ancient history as well as by his
scholarly standing . . . . He has served
his College and University with gen-
uine distinction.”’

He received the doctor of humane
letters degree.

A graduate of Virginia Tech and
the Wharton School of Business, Han-
cock established Roanoke Electric
Steel, which contained the nation’s
first continuous casting line. That
method of production is currently in
use among the nation’s ‘‘minimills,”’
which produce a fifth of this country’s
steel. Hancock is a director of Hollins
College, the University of Virginia
Medical College Foundation, and the
Foreign Policy Association.

‘‘For those who believe we have
lost our entrepreneurial spirit in this
country, we ask that they look upon
the vision, courage, and technical in-
ventiveness of John W. Hancock,”’
the citation read. ‘‘But in conferring
the University’s doctor of laws degree
upon Mr. Hancock we celebrate more
than industrial genius. We celebrate,
in fact, an exemplary citizen, a civic
man, a man with an instinctive sense

that we make our lives worthwhile by
building strong and lasting social in-
stitutions.”’

During the mid-1930s Fred Perry
won three Wimbledons, three United
States Championships, and one French
and one Australian title. He was also
a member of the British team that
won the Davis Cup four times. When
an elbow injury ended Perry’s com-
petitive career in 1941, he came to
Washington and Lee to coach. His
tenure was interrupted by World War
II, but he returned in 1946 and spent
part of that season helping build the
University’s tennis courts.

The era of Perry’s domination, the
degree citation said, ‘‘was an elegant
time in international tennis...
respectful conduct on the courts, no
verbal antics, no fines for ‘abuse of
equipment,’ no vulgarity or preten-
sion. Fred Perry exemplifies this world
as no one else can and though his for-
mal residence here was not long, he
nonetheless will remain forever a vital
element in our athletic heritage and a
continuing inspiration for generations
of Washington and Lee’s amateur
athletes.’’

He received the doctor of laws
degree.

 

W&L

 

  

efforts to reinforce certain values in this
society of ours.”’

The first of those institutions, Wilson
said, is the family; ‘‘for even as you learned
much you most care about from your
parents, so you, in turn, will (I hope) have
an opportunity to teach your children what
it means to enjoy a free society and what is
required to maintain it and enlarge it for the
benefit of all of its citizens.’’

But there are other institutions that
should not be neglected but nurtured, Wilson
added, noting that these include cultural and
service organizations, schools and colleges,
churches and hospitals.

‘*Look carefully,’’ Wilson said, ‘‘at how
you can magnify your own best efforts to
make this a better and more caring world.”’

During the ceremony, Wilson singled out
two members of the class for special
recognition.

By virtue of his grade-point average of
4.085 on a 4.333 scale, Jeffrey S. Mandak
of Clifton, N.J., was named class valedic-
torian. A chemistry major, Mandak receiv-

ed a bachelor of arts degree summa cum
laude. He was head dormitory counselor and
a member of the Student Activities Board,
the Student Affairs Committee, the
Fellowship of Christian Athletes, the lacrosse
club, and Sigma Nu social fraternity. He was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Eta
Sigma, the freshman honor society.

Steven F. Pockrass of Indianapolis
received the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion, which is voted by the faculty to
a graduating senior who excels in high ideals
of living, in spiritual qualities, and in
generous and disinterested service to others.
Pockrass majored in journalism and was
president of the W&L chapter of Sigma Delta
Chi/The Society of Professional Journalists.
He was founder and president of the school’s
chapter of Alpha Phi Omega service frater-
nity, secretary of Zeta Beta Tau social frater-
nity, assignments editor for'The Ring-tum
Phi, a dormitory counselor, and a member
of the cross country and track teams and the
WLUR-FM staff.

The day before commencement, David

Clockwise from above left: A law graduate in a
celebratory mood; Hon. Sol Wachtler delivers the law
commencement address; the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion is presented to Steven Pockrass in a pre-
commencement ceremony that included, from left, the
winner’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Arien Pockrass of In-
dianapolis; Pockrass; W&L President John D. Wilson;
and W&L Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

W. Sprunt, retiring Fletcher Otey Thomas
Professor of Religion and University
Chaplain, delivered the sermon for the tradi-
tional baccalaureate service.

The topic of Sprunt’s sermon was the
religious life of Robert E. Lee. ‘‘Why is it,”’
Sprunt asked, ‘‘that so many students of
Lee’s life have been drawn as if by an ir-
resistible magnet to forfeit their claims to ob-
jectivity by indulging in obviously ex-
travagant praise? How has it come to pass
that the legendary portrait of St. Robert the
Perfect has been drawn not only by Southern
writers who might be well suspected of sen-
timental ethnocentrism, but also by writers
of a Northern background, some of whom
fought him bitterly?

‘‘The obvious answer is, I think, the cor-
rect one: namely, that Robert E. Lee, though
far from perfect, was a remarkably good
man. Compared to most of us ordinary mor-
tals, he was clearly a superior person,’’
Sprunt concluded.

‘“Whatever you have heard to the con-
trary, he actually was a human being.

W&L 5

 

 

Whether frolicking with his children or
roughing it with his soldiers; whether
delightedly engaged in amusing the
ladies . . . or dutifully delivering a stern lec-
ture to an errant student; whether pausing
by acountry lane to give some child a much-
coveted ride on Traveller or graciously
meeting with Gen. Grant in quiet dignity at
Appomattox: in whatever activity we observe
him, if we take care to look behind the legend
we almost invariably find not a man of mar-
ble, but a man of warm human personality.”’

Just 10 days before undergraduate com-
mencement, the Washington and Lee School
of Law had assembled on the Front Cam-
pus on a sunny Sunday afternoon (it waited
until hours after the ceremony to rain on the
law school’s parade) to award juris doctor
degrees to 114 students.

The principal speaker for that event was
Sol Wachtler, ’51, ’52L, chief judge of the
New York State Court of Appeals.

In this bicentennial year of the U.S. Con-
stitution, Wachtler said, lawyers must
remember that they bear a particular respon-
sibility for preserving and safeguarding the
principles on which the country was found-
ed. ‘‘The truth is that one generation can
never protect the rights of another, and
although our greatest documents—the
Declaration of Independence, the Constitu-
tion, and the Bill of Rights—are ideal reflec-
tions of our finest aspirations, they are not
self-fulfilling chariots of justice. For all their
beauty, they are only words, dependent on
each generation to give them a meaning and
content for its own time and place.’’

As the world changes, Wachtler said, so
does Constitutional interpretation. ‘‘The
Constitution, written in 90 days, has surviv-
ed for 200 years precisely because we lawyers
and judges have recognized that the framers
of the Constitution were not so arrogant as
to suppose that they could anticipate the
future,’’ Wachtler said. ‘‘And this nation has
survived because we lawyers and judges have
recognized our obligation to adapt the law
to the ‘crises of human affairs.’

‘‘So long as we remain constant to that
obligation. So long as we recognize that we
bear the burden not to appease the majori-
ty, but to protect the rights of the individual.
So long as we are willing to defend in our
courts those basic freedoms which are
cherished by all of our citizens—even if that
protection is unpopular—then we would
have done our part in seeing to it that
America will survive.”’

During the law school exercises the John
W. Davis Prize for Law was awarded to
Richard E. Whalen of Amagansett, N.Y.,
for maintaining the highest grade-point
average in the class.

6 W&L

 

 

 

Steinheimer

Sprunt

Sprunt, Steinheimer retire

wo Washington and Lee professors announced their retirement at the end of
the 1986-87 academic year.

David W. Sprunt, the Fletcher Otey Thomas Professor of Bible and Univer-
sity chaplain, and Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., the Robert E. R. Huntley Professor
of Law, were formally recognized during commencement exercises for the
undergraduate and law schools, respectively. Both have been designated pro-
fessors emeriti by the University’s Board of Trustees.

Born in Wilmington, N.C., Sprunt received a bachelor of arts degree in
psychology from Davidson College and a bachelor of divinity and doctor of
theology from Union Theological Seminary.

After serving as a chaplain with the U.S. Navy in the mid-1940s, he was
named chaplain and assistant professor of Bible at Southwestern at Memphis
(now Rhodes College) in 1948.

Sprunt joined Washington and Lee’s department of religion in 1953 and was
appointed University chaplain in 1960. He served as head of the department of
religion from 1956 to 1984 and was designated the Fletcher Otey Thomas Pro-
fessor of Bible in 1977.

He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa national honorary leadership
fraternity. He has been active in the Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic, the Cen-
tral Shenandoah Drug Council, and the Virginia Advisory Committee to the
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.

Steinheimer is a native of Dodge City, Kan., and received his bachelor’s
degree from the University of Kansas and his law degree from the University of
Michigan law school in 1950.

He joined the Washington and Lee faculty in 1968 as dean of the law
school, succeeding Robert E. R. Huntley, who left the deanship to become
University president.

Under Steinheimer’s guidance, the law school moved into Lewis Hall, the $9
million facility completed in 1976, and established an admissions program that
made the law school a strong national institution with a diverse student body.
He retired as dean of the law school in 1981 and returned to full-time teaching.

Steinheimer’s primary field is commercial law. He served for several years on
the Uniform Commercial Code Committees of both the American and Michigan
State Bar Associations. He is the author of numerous books and articles on
legal matters, including the two-volume Uniform Commercial Code Forms with
Practice Comments and the two-volume Desk Reference to the Uniform Com-
mercial Code.

He is a member of the American Arbitration Association and the American
Law Institute, Phi Beta Kappa, and the Order of the Coif.

 

 

 

With his family watching from the audience, Vinny LaManna receives his diploma and congratulations from President John D. Wilson.

Another View of Alma Mater

Looking Back on A Son’s Four-Year Adventure

his place is great!’ my son

responded to our ‘‘How’s it

going?’’ in our first telephone
conversation way back in September 1983.
That super-charged enthusiasm was to be
reflected repeatedly in the calls between
home and Lexington during the next two
months.

We had made an end-of-summer family
holiday of the drive to Washington and Lee
where Vinny would begin his freshman year.
In the record-breaking heat wave of that
September, we ambled south along Route 81,
stopping to tour the cool caverns, digressing
to drive a few miles on the Skyline Drive.

 

In addition to being the mother of two
Washington and Lee students, Roseann Pontello
LaManna is an essayist whose work has appeared
in The New York Times and Newsday as well as
other publications.

By Roseann Pontello LaManna

We arrived in Lexington in a van loaded
down with his clothing and gear, even an old
easy chair with which we had begun our own
household many years earlier. Six people can
unload a van quickly, we discovered, and in
a short time Vinny’s room, containing some
familiar touches from home, was organized
into a comfortable and efficient physical
plant, in which he might fabricate his
education.

It was the first time my husband and I
had been to Washington and Lee, and it was
love at first sight for both of us. We toured
the campus, staying longest at the Lee
Chapel and Museum. I read Lee’s letters to
parents of long-ago students; I felt his
presence everywhere. I was moved by the
sense that we had entrusted our beloved son’s
malleable young a/ma to the most capable
of maters.

Saying goodbye was hard to do, but not
for Vinny. His excitement and eagerness
were palpable. In his first nights at the dorm,
he had met young men with whom he was
to form fast friendships, and his pockets
were full of party invitations. He encourag-
ed us to take our leave, assuring us that he
would be just fine. He bravely suffered my
tearful goodbye and blessing, his father’s
hugs and handshakes. We left feeling both
rosy and blue, like the sunset along the ridge
that led us home.

Back in New York, our abbreviated fami-
ly status was most noticeable at the dinner
table. An unexplainable amnesia seemed to
overtake us so that we could not remember
at all the usual grievances his presence pro-
vided. Instead, we missed his exaggeratedly
imagined good humor and enthusiasm.

Our glumness was juxtaposed by those

W&L 7

 

aforementioned happy phone calls. ‘‘It’s

really great down here,’’ he’d repeat. We >

were somewhat cheered by the conviction
that we had chosen wisely, since Vinny ob-
viously loved W&L. ‘‘Yeah, the guys are
great—it’s lots of fun,’’ he’d go on. Natural-
ly we began to worry.

Noticeably absent from those early phone
conversations were any references to class
work. Mainly, they were reports of fun-filled
events, attendance at which is so necessary
in developing a sense of belonging in the
newly arrived student. One such amusing
story recounted the removal of a part of the
anatomy from the costume of a rival team’s
mascot by ‘‘some guys’”’ at a Saturday foot-
ball game. As Vinny related it, this daring
act was wildly cheered and highly praised by
all (W&L) onlookers as an act displaying the
highest form of school spirit.

(That there were some omissions to this
tale [no pun intended] became apparent later.
Checking in at the registration desk during
Parents’ Weekend, I noticed glaring
headlines in a copy of the Ring-tum Phi. The
gist of the article was that an apology had
been issued to Hampden-Sydney for the
behavior of some W&L students at the
H-S/W&L football game. Restitution by the
students involved had been made to replace
the temporarily tail-less tiger costume worn
by the H-S mascot. The offenders were
listed. And lo, Vinny LaManna’s name led
all the rest.)

But the levity was not to last. I well
remember when the tone on the phone turn-
ed from gleeful to glum. Negative comments
about the school began to creep into the con-
versations, and he started to request that we
arrive early for Parents’ Weekend, an event
he had previously told us was not worthy of
our attendance. We understood it all when
we realized that midterm exams, the payment
extracted for the weeks of unrelenting
revelry, were upon him. So, for a few
months, we quit worrying.

ashington and Lee’s geographical
situation must have inspired the
phrase ‘‘You can’t ‘get there
from here.’’ Because the town is virtually ig-
nored by common carriers, the 450 miles be-
tween Lexington and our home can best be
bridged by eight hours of hard driving. That
reality has given us some pause over the years
of our sons’ residency. Since the college ex-
perience for both my husband and me meant
living at home and commuting to school, we
were somewhat unprepared for the emo-
tional highs and lows that distance and
separation seemed to exacerbate.
Sending Vinny so far away, in fact,
caused me to reevaluate, upwardly, the

8 W&L

benefits of attending a local university. The
primary advantage, as I see it, was that it
made the transition to adulthood more
gradual. Freedom was dished out in smaller
servings. As students, we shared the same in-
stinct for hell-raising, mindless frivolity as
do our children. But we had the reality of
day-in, day-out parental scrutiny, definitely
a force for moderation.

Remembering his own college days, my
father was tolerant of a certain amount of
tomfoolery, but when we tested his limits,
the boom came down. It goes without say-

ing that alcohol excesses were simply imprac-
tical, because my night-owl father was always
on hand to greet us when we returned from
an evening of partying. He also had a sense
of when attendance to homework was lack-
ing, and he interfered before disaster occur-
red. He saved us from ourselves. He provid-
ed us with some insulation against self-
generated pain by largely preventing ex-
cessive behavior.

The presence of my parents and the
security of the family were reassuring dur-
ing the inevitable stressful periods of the col-
lege years. Their adult perspectives reduced
to more manageable proportions the prob-
lems we saw as overwhelming.

In retrospect, there was no analog in our
experience for some situations that Vinny
was forced to confront at W&L. We were not
able to protect him from the man-sized pain
caused by events that never would have been
expected during our college years—events
that required his instant maturity.

During the spring break of his freshman
year, just when we sensed an upward trend,
a coming to grips with W&L’s demands,
together with a developing conviction that
he would be able to fulfill them, Vinny and
the entire W&L community suffered a cruel
blow. We were all devastated by the death
of Tom Fellin in the fire that destroyed the
Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house. Vinny
was pledging Fiji, and Tom Fellin was one
of his brothers. Spring break for Vinny and
his fraternity brothers concluded that year
with their attendance at Tom Fellin’s funeral
service.

The days following that tragedy were fill-
ed with apprehension for us. We could not
be there to offer him support. But fortunate-
ly the W&L community provided that sup-
port in our stead. Dick Sessoms, adviser to
the Fijis, gave generously of his sensitivity,
counsel, and presence during those weeks.
He and others of the advisers really sustain-
ed that group of heartbroken young men.
And they sustained each other. United in
their grief, they formed even stronger ties of
brotherhood.

During that freshman year, Vinny was

 

beginning to develop bonds to that
something which is the spirit of Washington
and Lee. He returned from his first year
among the W&L family much different from
the high-spirited, tail-removing fellow of his
September days. But when I asked him if he
wished to transfer to another school, he
replied simply, ‘‘No, I want to go back.”’

There were to be other hurts. In Vinny’s
sophomore year, the University family lost
one son to suicide and another, just
graduated that past June, in an accident.
Memorial services and funerals, absent from
our college days, seemed a sorrowfully com-
mon occurrence. Again, the W&L faculty
and advisers and the students—both together
and individually—had to deal with these
blows. We sat at home, sensing the despair
of other parents, feeling grieved and
impotent.

These were shared hurts, but there were
also private ones with which we, as parents,
could identify—disappointments in people,
difficult decisions, missed opportunities.

We were growing up a little, too. And we,
also, resisted the maturing process. It was
(and is) difficult to acknowledge that it is not
in our power to remove all unpleasantness
from our children’s lives. We cannot protect
them from the proverbial slings and arrows.
We can’t provide them with a world of
unrelenting happiness. We had to learn to
trust that our son would find resources
within himself that would see him through
the difficult times.

And somehow, he did. Because there
were the triumphs, too. I recall vividly a con-

The LaManna family—from left, sister Inez; m

versation with Vinny about the Honor
System. He spoke of the pleasure of living
in an unlocked society. He described his ad-
miration for the straightforwardness born of
the truth to which W&L students were
pledged. I remember asking him what was
different at W&L from what we had always
taught him about not telling lies and own-
ing up to behavior. He replied that at
Washington and Lee, ‘‘everyone accepts and
agrees to the same standard. That’s why it
works so well.”’

That personal acceptance of the honor
code I saw as a gradually maturing integra-
tion, now indelibly etched into his personali-
ty. Only a community where everyday life
is colored by that dedication, where that ideal
is a practical reality, could hope to be taken
seriously and to attract adherents. In living
the Honor System, Washington and Lee
edifies.

Implicit in that devotion to honor and in-
tegrity is the charge ‘‘to thine ownself be
true,’’ which has as its corollary an exhor-
tation to respect others who are also true to
themselves, those who might be marching to
a different drummer. This acceptance of
diversity has been most apparent to me in the

ther (and author) Roseann; Vinny; father Jake; and brother Fred, °90.

many different accents, interests, and
outlooks of Vinny’s friends who have graced
our house and whom we have met on cam-
pus over these four years.

Imagine a mother’s joy in speaking with
a young man who responds to queries with
‘*Yes, ma’am; No, ma’am.’’ Imagine a
mother’s joy in receiving warm, sincere
thank-you notes from friends of our son for
whom we provided a modest hospitality.
This gentility of style is, I think, a product
of the geographic differences within the
University. It has been edifying, too.

The rehabilitative powers of Washington
and Lee cannot be underestimated. The tiger-
tail tearers, whose beginnings at W&L were
so inauspicious, have much better endings to
their own tales. Mike McAllister, a designee
in Who’s Who Among American College
Students, served as president of the senior
class. Vinny himself, who was a senior class
vice president, served with Mike on the Stu-
dent Conduct Committee where,
presumably, and for obvious reasons, they
tempered justice with mercy in their con-
sideration of those who appeared before the
Oo.

We have now come full circle. As the

     

graduates turned their tassels from right to
left in that symbolic gesture of commence-
ment, the tears that fogged our eyes did not
becloud the memories of this marvelous
adventure. With the turn of that tassel, Vin-
ny was, as they say, ‘‘outta here.’’ But not
us.

We have signed on for three more years
of excitement, ups, downs, new victories, dif-
ferent pain. My husband and I look forward
to the deepening of our maturity (i.e., more
gray hairs) in the next three years as we see
our younger son, Fred, just finished his
freshman year, through his adventure.

We will not be, nor have we been, there
to define, to arbitrate, to solve, to explain
all the experiences that were and will be
presented. We will not, nor did we, do their
literal or figurative homework, as we are so
tempted to do, as is our instinct as parents.
In our absence—perhaps because of it—our
sons have learned to do that for themselves.
We shall leave to them and a/ma mater ‘‘the
development of the capacity and desire to
learn, to understand, to pass on to others the
varied benefits of that intellectual growth.”’
And that is precisely why we sent them to
Washington and Lee in the first place.

W&L 9

Town
and
Gown

 

Examining Lexington’s
Student-Community
Relationships

 

By Brian D. Shaw

t is eight o’clock on a Sunday morning. A woman is walking

her dog on Washington Street in Lexington. Heading east, she

passes the Stonewall Jackson House, pausing to note its perfect
fence and pristine garden. Continuing up Washington she passes
the Campbell House, one of the oldest in Lexington, and the
Visitors Center, its vast parking lot awaiting the cars of tourists
who will arrive in a few hours.

Here, just beyond the Visitors Center, Washington Street begins
to take on a much different appearance this morning.

Beginning at the front lawn of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity house
and continuing up Washington to the Phi Kappa Psi house, the
woman encounters a Hansel-and-Gretel-like path of plastic cups,
empty beer bottles and cans, a liquor bottle or two, even a few
articles of clothing. Two students are asleep in a car, its windows
cracked for ventillation.

The woman takes a right on Estill Street and walks to Nelson
where three other fraternity house lawns are littered with the same
debris. Taking another right, she heads toward home to dress for
church, wondering as she walks what her fellow churchgoers will
think and say about the refuse from another Saturday night of par-
ties at Washington and Lee.

Although the preceding scenario is fictional, similar incidents
do occur in Lexington practically every Sunday during the academic
year. All too often the only impression many Lexingtonians have

 

* bs of Washington and Lee students comes from the litter and the noise
. and the congestion of fraternity parties. But the relationship be-
The W&L campus and the Lexington community are virtually one in tween the University and the community, the relationship between

the same. the students and the citizens, the ‘‘town-gown relationship”’ is much

deeper and more complex than that.

It is certainly not a new phenomenon, this concern about a
town-gown split. In his book General Lee’s College, Ollinger Cren-
shaw recounts how students of Liberty Hall Academy caused ten-
sions with Lexington citizens through ‘‘duelling, intoxication,
fighting, attending a ball, disorder at table, ‘profane swearing,’
participating in street affrays, and holding a ‘Mock Imitation of
Divine Worship.’ ”’

All that occurred in 1804, the same year that one student,
William Crump by name, was ‘‘ ‘charged with running naked
through the streets of Lexington.’ ”’

And while streaking as a college pasttime goes in and out of
fashion, the relationship between the University’s students and their

10 W&L

 

Lexington neighbors usually strikes some balance between harmony
and discord. But the relationship is always there.

Indeed, it is a relationship born of economics and based on
the understanding—or misunderstanding—of what makes W&L
students and Lexington townspeople tick. The fate and future of
Lexington, Washington and Lee, and the Virginia Military Institute
are so interwoven that they are inseparable. And yet, it is often
difficult to find a student who knows many townspeople who are
not associated in some way with either the University or the In-
stitute. It is equally difficult to find townspeople not associated
with the two schools who know anything about W&L students,
other than the fact that they create considerable litter and make
lots of noise.

In a city where the non-student population is less than 5,000,
that is sad testimony to bad communication. What follows are six
different perspectives that indicate the variety of ways in which
the citizens of Lexington view that curious relationship between
town and gown.

s executive director of the Lexington Downtown Develop-

ment Association, Dianne Herrick is charged with develop-

ing programs, promotions, and ideas to generate revenue
for the city’s downtown businesses. Herrick comes in contact with
many Washington and Lee students through her husband, Bruce,
head of the department of economics at W&L. But in her role with
LDDA, she also has special insights into the economic impact of
students in Lexington.

A recent survey of Washington and Lee undergraduates by
LDDA reveals some interesting statistics about the effect of stu-
dent spending on the downtown economy. For example, 57 per-
cent of the undergraduates surveyed said they spend more than
$1,500 during the school year on items other than rent and utilities.
While most of that money is spent on food and entertainment,
students also spend time downtown carrying out banking transac-
tions and visiting the offices of doctors and dentists and lawyers.
A very small percentage of students, the survey revealed, visit

 

downtown to take in the tourist attractions.

‘The spending ability of students is great,’’ Herrick says, speak-
ing from her office overlooking Main Street. ‘‘It drives up the per
capita spending downtown. Are the merchants welcoming the
students enough? In some cases, yes; but that works both ways.”’

Herrick says the merchants are sensitive to the needs of students
and to the complaint that Lexington stores do not stock a variety
of goods that appeal to the student market. But if the students
will not shop downtown, she notes, it is difficult for a business
owner to stock items that appeal exclusively to that market.

‘*The lack of diversity of goods is the biggest complaint we get,”’
she says. ‘‘It is a problem we are dealing with.’’

In addition to shopping, students also affect the city’s economy
by leasing apartments located above various downtown businesses.
‘‘Lexington has a higher utilization of second-floor space than
many downtowns,”’ Herrick says. ‘‘That is because there is a stu-
dent market to rent the apartments.”’

Such a high utilization of second-floor space has a two-fold
benefit, Herrick notes. Students pay rent for their apartments, and
those same students often shop at downtown businesses because
of the obvious convenience.

As much as the students benefit the Lexington economy with
their spending ability, their presence can also have adverse effects.
The most frequent complaints that Herrick hears from merchants
concern student parking and student-generated litter.

There is the perception of a parking shortage in Lexington, Her-
rick says. When the students—58 percent of whom own
automobiles—return to Lexington each fall, the problem is exacer-
bated. Some townspeople and merchants, she notes, resent the fact
that students take away parking spaces near businesses from poten-
tial customers.

‘Litter is also a big problem,’’ Herrick says. ‘“The people of
Lexington have worked so hard to make the city attractive. It is
a little difficult to take when the students trash the downtown.”’

Yet, despite those drawbacks of parking and litter, Herrick
believes Lexington’s downtown merchants are appreciative of the

Dianne Herrick is executive
director of the Lexington
Downtown Development
Association.

W&L_ ii

 

business generated by the students. She also thinks most students
appreciate Lexington.

Says Herrick: ‘‘I believe the students think we have a lovely
community that is a wonderful place to live.”’

arry Mann is a 1970 graduate of Washington and Lee. He

came to Lexington from Connecticut in the fall of 1966 and

never left. As an attorney with a private practice, Mann
is often called upon when students need representation in the courts.
He also deals with student-related problems and concerns as a
member of the Lexington City Council.

Mann believes that a large part of the friction that does exist
between students and townspeople is the result of what he calls
‘“culture shock.’’ Says Mann: ‘‘Like many students, I came to Lex-
ington from an urban area. We used to go to New York City for
our entertainment. I wasn’t prepared for the culture shock of Lex-
ington. I see that as a source of conflict in today’s students, too.”’

Many students, Mann says, come from suburbs ‘‘where
everything is ignored. Here, everything is observed. There is a
tolerance among the townspeople for student behavior, but there
is also close scrutiny.’’

Many students are on their own for the first time in their lives
when they enroll at Washington and Lee, and they are unsure of
the conduct expected of them. As a consequence, they sometimes
have trouble dealing with the police and violations of the law.

‘‘Most [undergraduates] don’t know the difference between a
felony and a misdemeanor, or between a subpoena and a capias,”’
he says. ‘‘The result is that some students end up in jail for not
paying parking tickets or for what they perceive as a prank.

‘‘We are asking the students to grow up very fast. Washington
and Lee has the responsibility to assimilate the students into the
community of Lexington as much as it assimilates them into the
University.”’

Mann suggests that the freshman orientation program include
talks by law school faculty members about the criminal justice
system and by other faculty members about the implications of
a criminal record on a job or graduate school application. He also
suggests that the University encourage its students to get to know
the men and women of the Lexington Police Department through
informal activities—a suggestion that some fraternities have taken
to heart by having police officers to dinner and for discussion of
shared concerns.

‘It helps if students get to know the police officers by having
dinner with them or playing softball with them,’’ Mann says. “‘It
is much harder to be callous to someone you know than someone
you don’t know..”’

In Mann’s opinion, one source of citizens’ resentment of
students is based upon the disparity between some townspeople
and the students in terms of personal wealth. ‘‘When you see some
students willing to invest in one weekend what some people spend
on a home, there is bound to be some resentment,’’ says Mann.
‘‘The frivolous spending of money really bothers some people.”’

Too, many townspeople hesitate to form relationships with
students who they know will be gone in four years, Mann notes.

‘It’s tough on townspeople to see bright, young, eager faces
that they know they might never see again after they graduate,”’
Mann says. ‘‘There is a certain reluctance on the part of townspeo-
ple to make the emotional commitment to that relationship.”’

Overall, Mann describes the tenor of the relationship between
townspeople and students as ‘‘strong and decent.’’ He warns,
however, that ‘‘it is important for students to know that they don’t
sit up on the Hill in another world. They are rooted in a jurisdic-
tion that has control of their lives.’’

12 W&L

 

Attorney Larry Mann, ’70, believes W&L students would benefit from
a community orientation program.

oe King became city manager of Lexington in August of 1986.

But though he is a relative newcomer to Lexington, King is

quite familiar with the problems peculiar to college towns.
During his undergraduate days at Virginia Tech, he observed
firsthand the town-gown relationship in Blacksburg, and he didn’t
like what he saw there.

‘Tech overwhelms Blacksburg,’’ King says, sitting in his com-
fortable office in City Hall just a few doors down from several
W&L fraternity houses. ‘‘I am more and more negatively impressed
with how the city doesn’t have an identity of its own outside the
school.”’

In contrast, King says, the relationship between Lexington and
its colleges is ‘‘a wonderful opportunity.”’

King cites several reasons why Lexington is in a position to mold
a strong relationship. First is the city’s size. With relatively few
square miles located within the city limits, Lexingtonians are forced
to confront daily the presence of the schools and their students.
The residents have little choice but to live and get along with
students.

Second, King says, is the high proportion of students in Lex-
ington. According to the 1980 census, Lexington’s population is
6,900. Of that number, approximately 3,000 are students, both
W&L and VMI, who live within the city limits.

The third reason why Lexington is so wed to its student popula-
tion involves the small amount of developable land within the ci-
ty. ‘‘The parcels of land left to develop in Lexington are extreme-

 

ly limited,’’ King says. ‘‘All major development will have to take
place outside the city. Our only option for economic development
is imagination and cooperation between the two schools and the
city. We also need to expand the central business district and
employ better marketing techniques for both the students and the
tourists.”’

King acknowledges that several problems need addressing. Chief
among them are parking and police/student relations.

‘*The parking problem is part W&L’s, part ours,’’ King says.
‘*It creates bad feelings if a student takes a space that is meant
for a shopper, tourist, or longtime resident.”’

One solution that King is considering to the parking problem
is the construction of a parking facility to be used jointly by
townspeople and students at W&L and VMI.

The police/student relationship, King says, requires much care
and attention from both sides. ‘‘A big part of the officers’ job
in Lexington is dealing with students who ought to be able to have
a good time within limits,’’ he says. ‘‘Students coming to
Washington and Lee should not expect to be harrassed for four
years. On the other hand, we cannot tolerate a row of ‘Animal
Houses.’ ”’

King says the phenomenon of Wednesday night parties at W&L
fraternity houses has forced a rethinking of police scheduling
throughout the week.

‘*‘Wednesday nights are now dominated by the ebb and flow
of people and traffic and noise problems,’’ he says. ‘‘Students need
to develop an attitude that they are residents of Lexington. They
have rights and responsibilities just like the year-round residents
of the city.”’

By and large, King is happy to have Washington and Lee and
VMI as neighbors and, in a sense, partners with Lexington.

‘“*T see W&L and VMI as critical parts of the community,’’ he
says. ‘‘Would we be better off without them? I don’t think so,
and I don’t sense that feeling from the townspeople, either.’’

 

 

 

att Paxton has lived almost all of his life in Lexington.

He graduated from Washington and Lee in 1949. After

receiving his master’s degree at the Columbia Univer-
sity School of Journalism, he returned home to work on the fami-
ly newspaper, The News-Gazette. He remains there today as presi-
dent and editor of the paper.

As a young boy growing up in Lexington, Paxton remembers
the awe he felt for Washington and Lee students.

‘*We really looked up to the students,’’ he says. ‘‘They were
our idols. I remember my father loading us up in the car and tak-
ing us around to the fraternity houses to look at the homecoming
displays.”’

The Lexington-W&L relationship was much different in the
1930s and 1940s, Paxton says. ‘‘The students were not as mobile
as they are today. Many lived in town in rooming houses or rented
rooms from families. Those students became identified with the
families. That arrangement provided the cement for relationships
that just isn’t there today.’’

The social functions of that era were also different, Paxton
adds. Fraternity parties were exclusively for members and their
guests. The noise and litter problems were nonexis‘ent in those days
before the evolution of 500-watt stereos and the creation of
disposable plastic cups.

Today, Paxton says, many townspeople (especially the older
ones) have a hard time accepting the dress codes and mores of this
student generation.

‘*Some townspeople see the students as being spoiled and seek-
ing creature comforts at the sake of all else. A lot of students are
used to having everything the way they want it, and some townspeo-
ple resent that.’’

Paxton wishes the students would realize how precious and
fleeting their days in Lexington really are.

‘‘One of the saddest days of my life was when I graduated from
Washington and Lee. I hope the students of today hold their time

Joe King is Lex-
ington’s city
manager.

W&L 13

 

Matt Paxton, ’49, is
president and editor of
Lexington’s
News-Gazette.

here in the same regard. This, for them, is a time when they can
do things they can never do again once they are working for a liv-
ing. The community is tolerant of that. They know the students
need time and space to experience life. But the students should try
to be good neighbors and realize they live in a community.”’

Paxton sees the problems of parking and litter as being bother-
some, but certainly not major in scope.

‘“My assessment is that we are fortunate to have as few prob-
lems as we have,’’ he says. ‘‘I think the relationship:is good. If
it were not, I would be receiving more letters to the editor about
the students. Now there are virtually no letters on that subject.’’

ob Wayland is 81 years old. He came to Lexington in 1931
and worked 41 years for the gas company. Since 1952
Wayland has lived at 206 East Washington Street, which
puts him directly across the street from four fraternity houses.
Wayland’s house and yard look like something out of a gardening
magazine. Indeed, he proudly points out that he has more than
700 daffodils in his yard. Pass by Wayland’s house anytime ex-
cept in the dead of winter and something is bound to be in bloom.

Wayland has seen many students come and go in the 35 years
he has lived on Washington Street. He has also come to know a
good many of the students’ dates and girlfriends, since he rents
rooms to them on the weekends.

‘‘I am now renting rooms to the daughters of girls who stayed
here when they dated W&L boys,’’ Wayland says, a hint of pride
in his voice. ‘‘I’ve had girls proposed to on my porch swing or
out by the gaslight. After they get married they come back and
see me or send me pictures of their children.’’

For the most part, Wayland gives the students good marks as
neighbors. ‘‘They are friendly and even invite me to their parties.
They talk to me like they talk to their parents,’’ he says. ‘‘I don’t
have any problem with them. If they are still making noise at 2
or 3 a.m., I call the police. Enough is enough.’’

Wayland is bothered, however, by the filth and squalor that
surround many student houses. Several students rent a house one

14 W&L

~

By and large, Bob Wayland h
the W&L fraternity houses.

 

   

Lee

  

  

Ce es

as few problems with his

, a. > ee

       

neighbors in

 

 

door down from Wayland. Although he calls them ‘‘good kids,”’
he is nonetheless appalled at the dirt and trash around the house.

‘‘When they went away for spring vacation this year, the
students left eight bags of trash sitting on their front porch,’’ he
recalls. ‘‘I couldn’t stand to see them there, so I put them on the
street.’’

Wayland notes that he also picks up trash, bottles, and cups
from his front yard, but he is quick to point out that ‘‘not all of
it is left by students.”’

Taken as a whole, Wayland considers his relationship with the
students to be a positive one.

‘They are just normal kids trying to grow up,”’ he says. ‘‘All
of us did the same things, I guess.’’

artha Lou Derrick has owned the College Town Shop

in Lexington for 10 years. Each year she employs eight

students, including a student manager. She calls them
‘‘my boys.’’ Derrick has trust in her student employees. She is not
afraid to leave them alone in a store with more than half a million
dollars in inventory, and she allows the students to make bank
deposits for her.

‘‘They have a sense of honor. I trust them with everything,”’
she says, adding with a laugh, ‘‘but they will buy an ad from
anybody.”’

At the College Town Shop Derrick carries quality lines of tradi-
tional clothing. She requires her workers to dress well. That is never
a problem, although some balk at having to wear socks. It is on
those rare occasions when Derrick gets a glimpse of how the
students actually live that she becomes dismayed.

‘‘T am appalled at the sloppiness of how they live,’’ she says.
‘It can be disgusting. They take great pride in their personal
appearance—they never come to work without a starched shirt—
and their cars are always clean, but I don’t understand their filthy
houses. And they get indignant when I call them on it.”’

The reason for that, Derrick believes, has to do with account-
ability. ‘‘They are always polite, mature, and responsible when
dealing with adults in a paying situation, although some townspeo-
ple don’t treat them with the same respect. But there is no account-

 

ability to their own peer group. Somehow that needs to be
developed.”’

Derrick thinks there is also a tendency for students to over-
react to the freedom of being away from home for the first time.
As the students get older, moving from freshman to senior year,
they become more responsible, and less tolerant of childish or
churlish behavior. Yet, Derrick says, they must become more ac-
countable to each other.

Not surprisingly, Derrick believes the students who remain in
Lexington after the school year has ended develop the greatest sense
of community between themselves and the townspeople.

‘Students who stay in Lexington for a summer have a different
feeling about the town,’’ she observes. ‘‘They get more involved
with the townspeople, they get to know them as individuals, and
they become somewhat familiar with local issues. The students love
speaking to the townspeople and calling them by name. It gives
them a sense of belonging, a feeling of being part of Lexington.”’

n a city the size of Lexington, a city in which the student

population is so visible and so integral, it is essential that town

officials work together with the two schools to establish a spirit
of cooperation. The first step in that process is to maintain a
dialogue between the students and the city officials. To that end,
City Manager King organized a town-gown symposium this past
spring in hopes of improving the lines of communication that now
exist and perhaps opening some new lines.

More than 50 representatives from Washington and Lee, VMI,
and the city gathered in the W&L student center to discuss the quali-
ty of the relationship and ways to improve it. Among the topics
discussed were parking and traffic, coordination of calendars and
facilities, general student-town relations, noise and litter, utiliza-
tion of services, and shopping.

King described the meetings as productive and ‘‘extremely
helpful.’’ In fact, he has already begun planning for another
meeting during the next academic year.

‘‘The town-gown symposium was a great start in establishing
the dialogue that is so important in our community,’’ King said.
‘‘The key now is to keep that dialogue going.’’

a
i
:
‘
i
;
i
;
;
'

Martha Lou Derrick owns
the College Town Shop.

W&L 15

Hizzoner, the Professor

 

Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr. Budgets and Balances His Time

 

n his four terms as mayor of Lexington,

Charles F. Phillips Jr. had become ac-

customed to the late-night telephone
calls.

There were the inevitable ‘‘Can’t-you-do-
something-about-the-noise-at-the-(fill in the
blank)-fraternity-house?”’ calls. There were
the ‘‘Why-wasn’t-my-garbage-collected-
today?’’ calls. There were even the occa-
sional ‘‘Can-you-take-care-of-my-parking-
ticket?’’ calls.

Then came the call to end all calls. It was
in the immediate aftermath of the November
1985 flood during which the raging Maury
River invaded Lexington’s water treatment
plant and forced the mayor to issue a special
plea for citizens to conserve water. Around
11 p.m. on the first day of the conservation
efforts the phone rang at Phillips’ home. A

146 W&L

By Jeffery G. Hanna

 

woman from the community was on the line.

‘‘Mr. Mayor,’’ she said somewhat anx-
iously. ‘‘Do I have your permission to flush
my toilet now?’’

His honor, the mayor, permitted the
toilet to be flushed.

‘‘T want the proper context,’’ Phillips
says, appending a footnote to that story.
‘‘The woman was trying to be helpful.”’

Put in such a context that phone call is,
indeed, indicative of the spirit of coopera-
tion that Phillips says has been the rule rather
than the exception during his 16 years as
mayor.

Beyond that, though, the story helps to
illustrate the many lives Chuck Phillips leads.

When he is not fielding late-night phone
calls about toilets, Phillips is teaching
economics at Washington and Lee, where he

Photo by Sally Mann

serves as Robert G. Brown Professor of
Economics. Or he is doing consulting work
for one of his more than 75 clients, which
range from the state of Alaska to the New
York Stock Exchange. Or he is offering
testimony about utility rates before a public
service commission somewhere. Or he is
watching his daughter compete in gymnastics
at Lexington High School. Or he is revising
his textbook on the economics of regulation.
Or... well, you get the picture.

‘You meet yourself coming and going
once in a while, I don’t deny that,’’ Phillips
says. ‘‘And once in a while you have to stop
and think about which of your jobs you’re
doing at the moment. But it really is a case
of budgeting time.’’

And, of course, keeping that budget
balanced.

   
 
    

 

huck Phillips never planned to live

at such a frenetic pace. When he

first arrived in Lexington, fresh
from finishing a Ph.D. in economics at Har-
vard, Phillips had a fairly firm timetable in
mind.

‘“We had come here thinking we might
stay three years or so,’’ he recalls.

That was 1959. So much for the three-
year plan. ‘‘What happened was we really
fell in love with Lexington,’’ Phillips says.

In some respects, that was predictable.
Phillips had grown up in Lewiston, Maine,
a college community with many similarities
to Lexington.

‘Lewiston is larger than Lexington by a
few thousand people. And Lewiston has a
manufacturing base to it that Lexington, of
ourse, does not have,’’ Phillips notes.
‘Nevertheless, it is a college community.
ates College is roughly the size of
ashington and Lee. And Lewiston has
some of the same attributes and some of the
same problems as Lexington.”’

In retrospect, it was probably predict-
able, too, that Phillips would become an ac-
tive member of the Lexington community.
Since his father was president of Bates,
Phillips heard lots of talk about the tradi-
tional split between the academic types at col-
lege and the rest of the community—the so-
called town-gown division.

‘“In college towns like Lewiston or Lex-
ington, you do hear a lot about a town-gown
split, and I think frequently there is one.
There is a tendency sometimes for faculty
people to stay with themselves and with their
own work and not have enough connections
with the community in which they live,’’
observes Phillips.

‘*I know Dad tried very hard, at least as
much as he could (and when you’re president
of a college you don’t have all the time in
the world), to be involved in the Lewiston
community.”’

Phillips had been at Washington and Lee
seven years when one of his neighbors on
Morningside Drive approached him and ask-
ed whether he would be interested in filling
an unexpired term that had become available
on the city council.

‘*I thought about that a while. I thought
it would be interesting. And I said yes.’’ But
the council chose someone else—in part,
Phillips suspects, because the city’s mayor
then was Pat Brady, superintendent of
buildings and grounds at Washington and
Lee, and the council was reluctant to add
another member from the University.

When the elections came around the
following year, Phillips’ neighbor returned
and asked him to run. He entered the six-
person race (‘‘not thinking I would win,

mind you’’) and was elected to one of the
three available seats. That was in 1967.

Four years later Brady decided not to
seek re-election as mayor. Phillips was ask-
ed to consider running. He ran unopposed
and became mayor in 1971. He has been re-
elected three times since then and has never
faced anything other than token opposition.

‘*T think there were two basic issues for
Lexington in 1971 when I first ran for
mayor,”’ Phillips recalls. “Number one, and
perhaps the most significant, was that I was
convinced we needed some long-range plan-
ning, primarily in the downtown area. It was
beginning to look ragged, and I was concern-
ed about the long-range financial viability of
the downtown.

‘‘And second there were all the other
usual issues. There were school issues. There
were what we now call ‘waste water’ issues.
There were the parks and public works.’’

Once elected, Phillips pushed the coun-
cil to adopt a five-year plan that had as its
centerpiece a major renovation of Lex-
ington’s downtown. As he looks back on his
tenure as mayor, the successful completion
of a comprehensive downtown renovation
ranks at the top of Phillips’ list of
accomplishments—and for a variety of
reasons.

‘‘Not only am I proud of the fact that
the restoration was done and, I think, done
well and will last us for years,’’ says Phillips
of the two-year project that was completed
in 1975. ‘‘But I am also proud of the fact
that we did it when we did it because I think
if we had waited much longer the cost would
have made it prohibitive.’’

Phillips is proud, too, of the way in
which the Lexington community banded
together on the project. The mayor and the
council were never really at odds with the
citizens, says Phillips, even though the
renovation was anything but painless.

“*It was never really a fight,’’ he says. ‘‘It
was a matter of putting together a five-year
plan and sorting out our priorities and our
needs. Secondly, it was working together
with those groups in the community who had
already started preservation efforts; it was
a matter of deciding with those groups, for
example, whether we wanted to go back to
brick sidewalks or not.

‘“Then it was a matter simply of going
to the public, outlining our hopes and our
dreams and our specific proposals so that
they would understand why, for nearly two
years, there would be absolute chaos
downtown. There were times when you
couldn’t get in a particular store. We had to
go on the radio every day with a list of streets
that were closed. It was dusty. It was dirty.
And the citizens were magnificent about it.”’

The success of that effort is based large-
ly on one of Phillips’ premises of local
government, which must, he suggests, be as
responsive as possible. In this specific in-
stance, the mayor spent considerable time ex-
plaining the program in speeches to every
conceivable civic group. ‘‘We explained what
we were doing, and we got their input,’’ says
Phillips. ‘‘And we did listen to what they had
to say.”’

In fact, when the reaction to a downtown
parking garage was almost uniformly
adverse, that was removed from the project,
even though Phillips wonders today whether
that decision was a mistake.

The downtown revitalization is but one
of the projects that Lexington has tackled in
Phillips’ years as mayor. There have been
plenty of other projects. And there have been
plenty of problems, too. How could it be
otherwise?

Although its size and its location might
make Lexington seem almost idyllic—
insulated, at least, from the kinds of prob-
lems that plague much larger cities—Phillips
knows better. The scale may differ, but the
issues are the same: from the schools to the
sewers, from the parks to the police. Most
of all, there is the never-ending problem of
finding the means to provide the citizens with
everything they need, on the one hand, and
everything they want, on the other.

‘We have financial problems in Lex-
ington,’’ Phillips says. ‘‘There is no secret
about that. Our tax base is not growing. Our
needs continue to grow. Our dreams con-
tinue to grow. The continuing project that
is the most difficult is determining how to
allocate the fiscal resources we have at our
disposal and how to establish priorities.
There is no easy solution to that problem
because there is no rich uncle sitting out there
giving us those financial resources.”’

That dilemma is a major source of
frustration for Phillips every year at budget
time when citizens’ groups begin showing up
at council meetings to question where the
money is going. ‘“There have been times
when all of us on council have wished that
there would be more involvement from the
citizens 12 months a year rather than just
budget time,’’ says Phillips. ‘‘If you’re in-
terested in one particular area or one par-
ticular project, it is easy to lose sight of the
fact that council has to deal with other issues.
And some of those issues are not as
popular.’’

This year, for instance, the city is faced
with having to meet state water control board
standards at its water treatment plant. That
is requiring major expenditures, which means
other areas will get smaller slices of the
budget pie. ‘‘A water treatment plant is not

W&L 17

 

as popular a facility as, say, the schools are,”’
Phillips says. ‘‘But even though it is not
popular, we are at a point where we no
longer can put off doing something with
those facilities.’’

So the mayor and the council can count
on coming under criticism at budget time.
That goes with the territory, though. In some
sense that criticism is exacerbated because of
Phillips’ brusque, blunt, all-business style—
the same style, no doubt, that has
characterized his testimony in more than 130
rate cases from coast to coast.

Still and all Phillips thinks that, by their
very nature, Lexington and cities like it do
have certain advantages when it comes time
to address these thorny issues.

For one thing, government does not have
to do all the work. There are groups who are
more than willing to pitch in. All you have
to do, Phillips says, is ask. In Lexington,
there are historical preservation groups and
garden clubs and service clubs.

‘““You’ve got tasks that almost any
organization, whatever its resources may be,
large or small, can take part in,’’ he explains.
‘It was not the city council that did the
downtown restoration. It was council work-
ing with citizens and various interested
groups. Without that input, we could not
have done it as efficiently or as easily or as
quickly. I make no bones about that.’’

Phillips suggests that such cooperation,
whether it is seen on the grand scale of the
downtown project or on the smaller scale of
a citizen not wanting to waste water flushing
her toilet during a water crisis, allows the
government to solve the problems far more
quickly than is possible in a larger communi-
ty.

‘**T don’t think our problems necessarily
differ [from bigger cities’],’’ he says, ‘“but
I think you can grasp them a little better.

‘‘Sure there are headaches. One of the
things you quickly learn about local govern-
ment is that it is the government that is
closest to the people. You’re not sitting in
Richmond; you’re not sitting in Washington.
You have a listed telephone. People will use
that number.”’

There have been times, Phillips admits,
when it has become difficult to answer the
question ‘‘why?’’ Why put up with the
headaches? Why accept the worries? Money
is certainly not the answer. Phillips draws a
salary of $100 a month as mayor and donates
all of that to charity.

‘*The bad spots tend to be short term,”’
Phillips says. ‘‘It tends to be because you get
tired in a negotiating session or you get tired
around budget time when you go through
countless hours of meetings in trying to get
a consensus on council or a consensus with

18 W&L

 

those who are concerned about particular
issues.

‘‘Those things tend to go away. And,
besides, they’re part of every job. They’re
part of being a faculty member. There are
times when every teacher wonders why he or
she is teaching and isn’t there something else
that he or she might be doing. If you step
back from those and take a look at the
broader picture, the good times, the ac-
complishments, far outweigh those short
periods of controversy or anguish.”’

very so often Professor Charles

Phillips will be privy to a conversa-

tion among his students in which the
City of Lexington is the topic. Occasionally
the talk will turn to criticism when suddenly
one of the students remembers Phillips’
presence. ‘‘Whoops,”’ that student will say,
‘I forgot. You are the mayor, Professor
Phillips, aren’t you?”’

Mostly Phillips’ students react to his posi-
tion in the greater Lexington community
with combined curiosity and bemusement.
Actually his dual status of professor and
mayor means that Phillips has interaction
with W&L students on several different
levels.

‘*T think the student population basical-
ly realizes that council is a part-time job and
that my basic task is one of teaching at
Washington and Lee,”’ says Phillips, who is
quick to point out that Lexington does
operate under a city manager who carries out
the day-to-day duties of governing the city
while the mayor and council are primarily

Photo by Greg Moore/The News-Gazette

concerned with setting policy.

‘*But students often do come by to talk
with me about something having to do with
the community. And those discussions are
important. Usually it involves an attempt on
the part of students to seek improved rela-
tions with their neighbors. It’s been years
since a student came to my office saying ‘I
got this parking ticket last night and I’m
upset.’ That could be because they’ ve learn-
ed over a period of time that I won’t do
anything about that parking ticket or a
speeding ticket or a court case.’’

From the other side that dual role has the
potential of conflicting interests. Phillips in-
sists that such conflicts simply do not exist,
both because Washington and Lee has never
asked the mayor to grant it any special
favors, and because the mayor would not
grant such favors if he were asked.

‘‘T have never felt any pressure from
anybody in the administration at
Washington and Lee either to raise an issue
or to vote a certain way,’’ Phillips says.

‘‘T hope that the integrity that we have
brought to council and, I hope, my own in-
tegrity are not compromised by any one
citizen of Lexington thinking that someone
is pulling strings. I think the actions we have
taken show that just is not true,’’ he says,
punching the top of his desk with a fore-
finger for emphasis. ‘‘I do not think the
average citizen of Lexington even questions
that.’’

Still, Phillips knows better than anyone
that there is an inherent conflict involving
the two educational institutions, Washington
and Lee and VMI, and the city. That issues
from the schools’ tax-exempt status, which
means that 52 percent of the city’s property
is not taxed.

‘“You do hear somebody say now and
then, ‘If only the two institutions paid a fair
tax, it would help us financially.’ Of course
it would help us financially. The fact of the
matter is they’re tax-exempt institutions and
one has to work with that,’’ Phillips says.
‘‘To the extent that you do hear of a town-
gown split, I think that it resides in that it
is a natural outgrowth of the tax-exempt
property and what that means.’’

Though that issue surfaces within the
community from time to time, especially
when a piece of property goes off the tax
rolls, Phillips believes that the civic involve-
ment of so many members of both universi-
ty communities helps counter the criticism.
In addition to Phillips, Washington and Lee
chemistry professor and computer center
director Tom Imeson sits on city council as
does Sue LaRue, who works in the Univer-
sity Book Store. A Washington and Lee law
professor, Ned Henneman, was recently

 

chairman of the school board. And then
there are countless other volunteer tasks that
professors and administrators of both
schools perform in the city—from leading a
campaign for a new library to heading the
Chamber of Commerce.

**My involvement in the Lexington com-
munity is higher profile than most,’’ Phillips
says, ‘‘but that does not mean it is more
significant than the work done by so many
others. If you look at the faculty of both
W&L and VMI, especially tenured faculty
who have a long-range stake in the communi-
ty, a significant percentage of them do get
involved in crucial ways in the Lexington
community. That is absolutely critical in
keeping whatever town-gown split there
might be to a minimum.”’

ince he is first and foremost an

economics professor, Chuck Phillips

is always trying to relate his work to
the classroom. One of his personal rules is
that he accepts consulting work only if it has
some relevance to the classroom.

Although the connection between his ser-
vice as mayor and his classroom lectures is
not nearly as direct, Phillips thinks that there
is a relationship if only in the sense that his
efforts to make Lexington a better place in
which to live benefit everyone connected with
Washington and Lee.

“*There are a few very direct things I can
do such as using city budgets with my
elementary economics class,’’ Phillips says.
**But I think my work with the city ties in
with the University at large, while I would
say that my consulting work ties directly in-
to the classroom.”’

Actually there exists a virtually in-
separable relationship between advising a
utility company on a rate hike and teaching
a course in regulated industries. In fact,
Phillips’ consulting work originally grew out
of his textbook which, in turn, grew out of
his classroom work.

When he joined the economics depart-
ment at Washington and Lee, the Universi-
ty catalogue listed separate courses in ground
transportation, ocean transportation, and
public utilities. Phillips proposed that those
courses be combined and agreed to develop
the single course on all regulated industries.
He took the notes from that course and
created a textbook, The Economics of
Regulation: Theory and Practice in the
Transportation and Public Utility Industries.

‘*When the real crunch came for the utili-
ty companies in the late ’60s and early ’70s
as the economic environment changed, the
utilities suddenly needed help and outside
consultants in that area grew tremendously,”’
explains Phillips.

 

Since he had written the book on that
subject, Phillips found his expertise in de-
mand. There was more work than he could
do. Then the economic environment chang-
ed. The transportation industry was essen-
tially deregulated. Phillips revamped his
course to reflect that change. Largely because
of the complex issues accompanying the
growth in the telecommunications industry,
the climate continues to change. So does
Phillips’ course.

‘*1’m doing new things now, basically in
the communications area,’’ he explains.
**Ten years ago if you were teaching a class
in regulation, you would take electric, gas,
telephone, and transportation and would
cover those four basic industries in a one-
semester course on the economic regulation
of utilities.

‘*Now what you’re doing is electric, gas,
telecommunications, and water, which is the
forgotten public utility industry but one of
the most interesting ones at the moment.
What is happening is that the first three of
those industries—electric, gas, and
telecommunications—are tending to become
more competitive.

‘*Telecommunications especially is in-
teresting because it is not the traditional
commission-related monopoly but is an in-
dustry in which government policy is trying
to make it competitive. So you’ve got some
interesting combinations of public utility
problems—competitive problems, antitrust
problems, imperfect competition problems.
It’s fascinating and it is new and that makes
it fun for me to tackle these days.’’

Photo by Greg Moore/The News-Gazette

ometime over the next several months,

Lexington Mayor Chuck Phillips must

decide whether to seek re-election to
a fifth term. He has already begun his
deliberations but insists he is undecided.

His youngest child, daughter Anne,
graduated from Lexington High School in
June and will be off to college. With all three
of their children away from home, he and
his wife, Marge, are in a position to travel
now. Largely because of his responsibilities
to the city, he has not taken a sabbatical leave
in 12 years. The prospect of spending a year
away from the classroom and the council
meetings, getting a better handle on the
rapidly changing field of regulated industries,
is appealing.

Then too, Phillips says he worries about
being in the same position for so long. He
does not want to let the city government
become stagnant. ‘‘The longer you stay in
a position, if you’re not careful, somebody
raises an issue and you say, ‘We discussed
that 10 years ago and it wasn’t any good.’
You dismiss it out of hand without recogniz-
ing that times do change and the environ-
ment changes and you worry that you may
not change with it,’’ he says.

“*If someone younger, someone with new
ideas who could lead council and the com-
munity were to run, I probably would not
run.”’

And yet...

If he were to run and be re-elected and
serve another four-year term, Phillips would
wind up with a quarter-century of service on
the Lexington City Council—four as a coun-
cilman, 21 as mayor. Phillips confesses that
25 ‘‘sounds like a nice round figure.”’

Beyond that, there are a few more things
he’d like to do. ‘‘Of course, I have learned
after five elections that there are always a few
more things you want to do.’’

The time demands have sometimes been
severe, especially when Saturday budget
workshops are crowded into teaching and
consulting and family responsibilities.

‘*But on balance I make no bones about
it. It has been enjoyable,’’ Phillips says. ‘‘It
has been enjoyable being part of the com-
munity and taking part in that activity. It
would be difficult to give that up.’’

Council meetings in Lexington are held
every other Thursday night. For the past 20
years the Phillipses have fallen into a familiar
Thursday night groove: Marge goes to choir
practice at the Presbyterian Church; Chuck
goes to council meetings. It’s automatic.

**You know, it would seem rather odd for
me to be home on those Thursday nights,’’
Phillips says. ‘‘I don’t know what I would
do.”’

W&L 19

Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. stands in front of the portrait of him that now hangs in Lewis Hall.

 

The Supreme Alumnus

Reflections on the Retirement of Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.

ASHINGTON—When the Su-
preme Court is predisposed to
split, 4 to 4, on a swatch of
liberal-conservative issues, the ninth justice
becomes a remarkably significant force in an
ideological era. When he is both a practical
lawyer and a man of relentless conscience—
and a beloved man besides—his retirement
from the court is an enormous event in the
life of the country.
We are anxious about the future at the
same time we are celebrating his example of

 

Charles McDowell, ’48, is the Washington-based
columnist of the Richmond Times-Dispatch. This
column is reprinted by permission.

20 W&L

By Charles McDowell, ’48

Richmond Times-Dispatch

gentle, stubborn, independent reason-
ableness.

Press, radio, and television seem to have
captured those themes with perhaps unac-
customed clarity in the case of the retirement
June 26 of Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. of
Virginia. So I feel free to turn to some reflec-

tions that are more personal than analytical.
xk kK

My first memory of Lewis Powell is a
tall, thin young man with a shiny face, walk-
ing up and down a hill with law books under
his arm. We were in Lexington, on the cam-
pus of Washington and Lee University where
he went to college and law school. He was

amiable. On his way to or from the law
school at the top of the hill, he would pause
sometimes to talk with the small boys play-
ing ball on a relatively flat place at the bot-
tom of the hill.

He had a rented room at Miss Annie Jo
White’s, three doors from my house in the
neighborhood known as the Hollow. My
father was a teacher at the law school and
my mother was secretary of it, and they told
me that Lewis Powell was maybe the
smartest student they had ever known. I
thought that was interesting considering he
would stop to talk with small boys.

One possible trouble with this vignette of
a future Supreme Court justice is that my

 

memory is not reliable. For instance, a few
years ago I had an opportunity to share a
Lexington memory with President Reagan.
I told him I remembered when he came to
Lexington in 1937, when I was 11 years old,
to shoot location scenes at Virginia Military
Institute for a movie, Brother Rat.

The president listened with interest as I
gave details of his visit. Finally he told me
that he was the only starring member of the
company who did not come to Lexington,
had never been there in his life. I had in-
vented the memory in subsequent years. The
president reassured me that it was a common
human failing and he was sympathetic.

In the case of Justice Powell, I have con-
firmed the facts with him. He did live at Miss
Annie Jo’s and he was aware of his pro-
fessor’s son. Still, I was only five years old
when he graduated from the W&L law
school (and went on to Harvard) in 1931. So
I may or may not actually remember him car-
rying law books up and down the hill on his
way to making the Hollow famous.

xk *

There can be no doubt about my parents’
saying Powell was a brilliant student. They
kept saying it—when he was nominated to
the Supreme Court in 1971 and thereafter
whenever he cast the crucial vote in a 5-4
decision that they agreed with.

His record at W&L is checkable. He was
a magna cum laude graduate from the col-
lege, led his class at law school, and won the
Algernon Sydney Sullivan medal for ‘‘high
ideals... Spiritual qualities... and
generous and disinterested service to others.”’
He was president of the student body in
1929. He was on the college newspaper and
a member of the theatre troupe. He went out
for four sports, made none of the teams, and
won his letter as football manager.

My father taught a course called
Negotiable Instruments in which the final
exam always was 100 yes-or-no questions.
My mother told him over and over that he
ought to give essay questions, but he said
Negotiable Instruments wasn’t worth even
one essay. Anyway, he asked such arcane
yes-or-no questions that the average grades
were in the low 70s and the course was not
a snap.

When Lewis Powell took Negotiable In-
struments, he made a 99. My father then
started giving essay questions in honor of
Powell.

When the old W&L law school burned,
all of Dean Clayton Williams’ lecture notes
in Property were lost. He called Lewis
Powell, borrowed the recent student’s class
notes, and taught from them without miss-
ing a beat.

 

kkk

Powell insists that my father gave
graduating students this advice for starting
a law practice and attracting clients: ‘‘Go
back to your home town and join the big-
gest church in town, regardless of denomina-
tion. Attend all the services and try to work
up fast to being a deacon or an elder or
whatever. Let ’em see you every Sunday
passing the plate, and pretty soon you’ll have
plenty of clients.”’

kkk

When President Nixon nominated Powell
for the Supreme Court in 1971, some liberal
organizations, especially civil rights groups,
initially were wary. Nixon previously had
sent up the dismal nomination of Harrold
G. Carswell, and the Senate had rejected him
after bitter debate. Nixon had then tested on

the American Bar Association two conser-
vatives nobody ever heard of, and the screen-
ing committee said they weren’t worthy of
screening. "

Then Nixon came up with Powell. The
wary groups knew he was the leading
establishment lawyer from a conservative
Southern city, and they knew he had been
president of the American Bar Association.
But they were skeptical of Powell’s work on
the Richmond and state school boards dur-
ing the ‘‘massive resistance’’ period, and they
had to be refreshed about his concerns as
president of the bar association.

The summary refreshing was done by
four liberal senators—Edward Kennedy,
Philip Hart, Birch Bayh, and John
Tunney—in a special report attached to the
Senate Judiciary Committee’s unanimous
recommendation of Powell.

W&L 21

 

 

Justice Powell Portrait Unveiled at Law School

portrait of Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell
Jr., 29, ’31L, was unveiled in ceremonies held during
the alumni reunion in May.

Commissioned by the Law Council of the Law School
Association and painted by well-known portrait artist George
August, the Powell portrait now hangs outside the moot court-
room in Lewis Hall, the law school building.

James M. Ballengee, ’48L, rector of the Board of Trustees,
accepted the Law School Association’s gift on behalf of the
University and praised Powell for ‘‘the example and inspiration
that he gives us through his demonstrated loyalty and support
for his family, for his friends, for his University, for the legal
profession, for the Commonwealth of Virginia, and for the na-
tion itself.’’

Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson observed that
the portrait is not only a ‘‘work of art of real excellence but is
also an emblem of human excellence and will be so for all the
students and faculty who gather in this magnificent facility [Lewis
Hall] for years to come.’’

riculum here includes a vast number of subjects we had never
heard of then.”’

Powell even divulged a long-kept secret involving his participa-
tion in a course taught by a professor named Raymond Johnson
but known more popularly by students as ‘‘Red Eye Johnson,’’
because of his appearance on Monday mornings.

‘‘In my senior year the last examination was in Johnson’s
course in bankruptcy,’’ Powell explained. ‘‘The grading had to
be done because of graduation, [but] ‘Red Eye’ wasn’t feeling
too fit. He called me on the telephone in a very confidential sort
of hesitant voice that I had a hard time understanding.

‘*He said, ‘Lewis, I’m sick. Will you please grade my papers?’
I must say that shook me up considerably. I was deeply concern-
ed about whether or not my fellow classmates would know about
it. In any event he promised me that this would be kept a deep
dark secret.

‘*I graded the papers generously, returned them to ‘Red Eye,’
and remained quite anxious about my grade. Finally when he felt

A oo better, ‘Red Eye’ called me on

 

At a dinner for Powell the

the phone. When I asked what

 

night before the unveiling,
Robert E. R. Huntley, former
president of the University and
now chairman and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Best Prod-
ucts Co., Inc., told of the con-
siderable contributions Powell
made to the University’s
Board of Trustees during a
17-year tenure (1961-78) on
the Board.

‘‘He (Powell) served on
the Board as the voice of
reason and optimism and vi-
sion and, above all, of |
courage,’’ Huntley said, ad- ee i
ding that ‘‘Lewis Powell is the
hardest worker I have ever
known. Vision without
courage is merely a dream,
and courage without hard work usually results in nothing.”’

Further, Huntley characterized Powell as a ‘‘gentleman—in
the true sense in which that much misused term should really be
used. A gentle man—dquiet and unfailingly courteous in manner
and demeanor, firm in his convictions, deeply sensitive to and
concerned with the opinions, sentiments, and feelings of others,
always more demanding of himself than of others. A person who
(in [Robert E.] Lee’s words), if he must humble others, cannot
help feeling humbled himself.’’

Powell demonstrated these very characteristics when he took
advantage of the occasion to reflect on his career at Washington
and Lee.

As he noted, the School of Law then had only five professors
and the courses were confined largely to the common law. ‘‘We
had no electives and no seminars,’’ said Powell. ‘‘The most dif-
ficult subject was common law pleading. Most of you [current
law students] fortunately have escaped that, and your faculty now
must number close to a couple dozen professors and the cur-

 

Retired Virginia Supreme Court Justice Alexander M. Harman Jr.,
°44L, left, joined U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.,
29, ’31L, at the unveiling of Powell’s portrait in May.

was my grade, he said, ‘I don’t
remember exactly what it was,
but I gave you one point
higher than the highest grade
you gave anybody else.’

‘*T think that is the way I
have the reputation of having
finished number one in my law
class.”’

Turning briefly to the
School of Law as it exists to-
day, Powell said he likes the
size of the 350-student
Washington and Lee law
school because it affords the
opportunity for personal and
professional relationships be-
tween faculty and students to
flourish.

He cited his concern about
the rush of most law schools toward clinical education at the ex-
pense of the more traditional courses.

‘*T still believe in the Langdell tradition that law basically
should be an academic discipline and that its mysteries are best
revealed through the rigorous analysis of appellate decisions,’’
Powell said. ‘‘The three precious years of law school are the last
opportunity most lawyers have for this sort of demanding indoc-
trination into the history, the great principles, and the model of
legal analysis that best prepares one to be a lawyer. I believe that
the students attending the Washington and Lee law school in this
splendid Lewis Hall continue to have this experience.”’

Powell’s grandchildren, Lycia and Nathaniel Carmody of
Richmond, unveiled the portrait.

Jeffrey L. Willis, ’75L, of Phoenix, president of the Law
School Association, presided over the ceremony. Retired Virginia
Supreme Court Justice Alexander M. Harman Jr., ’44L, who
directed the campaign to commission the Powell portrait, also
participated in the event.

 

22

W&L

 

 

 

**His efforts as bar association president
to bring legal services to the poor are signifi-
cant,’’ they wrote, ‘‘because of the opposi-
tion he faced and the extent to which Lewis
Powell personally took the initiative, plac-
ing his own reputation on the line to over-
come that opposition.”’

As for his role in the school-segregation
controversy in Virginia, the liberal senators
wrote: ‘‘In the bright light of hind-
sight . . . perhaps Lewis Powell did not do
everything humanly possible to end segrega-
tion in Virginia . . . But if that were the test
for appointment to the Supreme Court, few
in public life, north or south, could pass it.
Unfortunately, we must all share that indict-
ment. Lewis Powell was one of the
courageous men in Virginia who was deter-
mined to obey the law of the land, and not
to engage in massive resistance.”’

The Senate consented to his nomination
with one dissenting vote.

xk

In his 15 years on the Supreme Court
before retiring as he approaches his 80th
birthday, Powell tended to vote with the con-
servatives in criminal cases and with the
liberals on civil liberties, abortion rights, and
affirmative action.

But his pattern varied even in those
categories, and he went his own way in the
other categories, case by case, gradually
making clear that he was not a member of
any ideological bloc.

Jean Camper Cahn, an attorney and
black activist who had worked with him on
legal aid for the poor, had told the Senate

Judiciary Committee in 1971 what kind of
justice Powell would be:

‘‘T am drawn inescapably to the sense
that Lewis Powell is, above all, humane; that
he has a capacity to empathize, respond to
the plight of a single human being to a degree
that transcends ideologies of fixed posi-

tion. ... His very soul will wrestle with
every case until he can live in peace with a
decision that embodies a sense of decency
and fair play and common sense.”’

~ Ok

My thick file on the confirmation of
Lewis Powell, which I covered as a
Washington correspondent 40 years after
watching him walk up and down that hill in
Lexington, comes in handy yet another 15
years later. And it deals with more than
issues and endorsements.

The file reminds me, for instance, that
when I went to the reception in the Supreme
Court after he took the oath of office, I was
thrown out by a security officer for not hav-
ing an invitation. Mrs. Jo Powell found me
sulking in the hall, and briskly hauled me
past the guards to congratulate the new
justice.

He introduced me to two colleagues,
Thurgood Marshall and Byron White, and
told them I had thrown snowballs at him
when we first met in Lexington a long time
ago.

xk *

The old notes also say that Powell came
up from Richmond to look over the Supreme
Court before he was sworn in. He was hor-

Justice Powell spoke
with Washington and
Lee law faculty during
a visit to the campus in
1982.

rified to find no dictating machine in his
chambers. Indeed, there was no dictating
machine in the building. He sent for one at
the Hunton, Williams firm in Richmond and
introduced the court to the modern age of
office machinery.

There were typewriters, but Powell didn’t
type. There were a few secretaries and two
law clerks for each justice, but he was not
inclined to ask any of them to be standing
by for dictation or interpreting his hand-
writing during his regular work schedule—12
hours or so a day, 6% days a week.

So the dictating machine was a start.
Soon there was one and a spare at court, one
at home in Washington, one at home in
Richmond.

Powell had more than a small part in ex-
panding the number of secretaries and law
clerks assigned to justices. When the clerk
quota was raised from two to three, he hired
J. Harvie Wilkinson III of Richmond. Fif-
teen years later, Wilkinson is a judge of the
Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.

Powell brought the Supreme Court’s first
word processor into his chambers years ago.
The other justices were amused and
suspicious at best. Now they all have them.
And the elaborate computer system extends
to the printing of the court’s opinions.

A couple of justices actually write at their
terminal keyboards. Not Powell. He dictates
to the dictating machine. He still can’t type.

But he has been good at the rest of it.
Often when he has talked to his dictating
machine, he has been speaking for the U.S.
Supreme Court on some of the most impor-
tant issues of his time.

W&L 23

 

 

Splendid Spring

National Showings for Tennis, Lacrosse

By Mark Mandel

 

 

or the second time in as many years, the

Washington and Lee men’s tennis team

finished second in the nation. And, for
the second consecutive year, Kalamazoo Col-
lege proved to be the Generals’ nemesis.

Playing in the NCAA Division III team
championships at Salisbury, Md., the Generals
dropped five of six singles matches and lost a
6-3 decision to Kalamazoo in the title match.
It was almost a not-quite-instant replay of last
year’s tournament when W&L advanced to the
championship match in Claremont, Calif., on-
ly to lose to Kalamazoo by a 7-2 score.

‘“‘T am proud of the way we played
throughout the tournament,’’ said W&L men’s tennis coach Gary
Franke, who was selected as the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches
Association Coach-of-the-Year. ‘‘We came close to winning the
championship, but we just couldn’t take the tie-breakers against
Kalamazoo.”’

The Generals, who had an 18-5 regular-season mark, entered
the national team tournament as the No. 2 ranked team and
defeated their first two opponents—Rochester (7-2) and Universi-
ty of California-Santa Cruz (5-4)—to set up the championship
rematch against Kalamazoo.

W&L’s lone win in singles came from sophomore Bobby Mat-
thews, who defeated Kalamazoo’s Jim Burda 6-4, 7-6, at the No.
2 position. Meantime, the Hornets won in straight sets at Nos. 1
and 3 singles. Kalamazoo’s Alex Palladino stopped W&L
sophomore Robert Haley 6-3, 6-3, at No. 1; the Generals’ David
McLeod, also a sophomore, lost 6-3, 6-3 to Kalamazoo’s Jack
Hosner at No. 3.

The Generals’ inability to win tie-breakers proved their undo-
ing in the final three singles matches. At No. 4 singles, W&L senior
Roby Mize had one match-point in the third set but was called for
a foot-fault and eventually lost in the tie-breaker to Rick Verheul,
6-3, 3-6, 7-6. At No. 5, junior Chris Wiman lost a tie-breaker in
the first set, won the second set 6-1, and then lost in the third 6-4
to Tim Hufler. And freshman John Morris also lost a tie-breaker
in the first set, won the second 7-5, and lost the third 6-3 in his
match against Dave Borski at No. 6.

The Generals did come back to win two of the three doubles
matches, but the outcome had already been decided in singles.

After the team competition ended, all six of W&L’s players
participated in the individual tournament, and three earned All-
America status. In singles, Haley and Matthews advanced to the
quarterfinal round of the 64-man bracket while the doubles team
of Matthews and McLeod reached the semifinals of the 32-team
doubles bracket.

Matthews, who missed the last two weeks
of the regular season with a broken bone in his
playing hand, was spectacular throughout the
weeklong team and individual championships.
Besides earning All-America awards in both the
singles and doubles tournaments, he did not lose
a singles or doubles match throughout the team
competition. He finished the year with a 21-4
singles record. He and McLeod were even bet-
ter as a doubles team, compiling a 22-2 mark
for the year.

Included among the Generals’ 18 victories
were wins over Division I schools James
Madison, Davidson, and William and Mary.
W&L also won its third consecutive ODAC

 

 

 

championship, sweeping every singles and
doubles flight. Haley was selected as the con-
ference Player-of-the-Year.

W&L should be in contention for the na-
tional championship again next year, especial-
ly since the Generals lose only senior Mize from
this year’s squad.

‘‘Roby had an outstanding career at
Washington and Lee,”’ Franke said of his cap-
tain. ‘‘He was instrumental in bringing a team,
which finished third in the ODAC in his
freshman year, to consecutive second-place
NCAA finishes. He should be very proud of
that.’’

Lacrosse advances to NCAA semifinals

his spring Washington and Lee recaptured its once-
familiar spot among the nation’s top lacrosse teams. But
this time it was in a Division III context.

The Generals were ranked No. 1 in the nation for most of the
season during which they compiled an 11-4 record and reached the
semifinals of the NCAA Division III championships before losing
to Ohio Wesleyan, 17-4, in Delaware, Ohio.

‘‘We played like champions,’’ said W&L lacrosse coach Den-
nis Daly. ‘‘I am very proud of the team. I am particularly proud
of the seniors because they had suffered three years of losing but
led us to the semifinals this year.”’

Last May the University’s Board of Trustees voted to have the
lacrosse program reclassified from Division I to Division III.
Lacrosse had been the only sport competing in the NCAA’s Divi-
sion I in which athletic scholarships are permitted. By shifting
lacrosse to the non-subsidized Division III level, the University
brought that sport in line with its overall athletic philosophy.

‘‘The move to Division III was proper,’’ Daly said prior to the
season. Not only did the reclassification allow W&L’s lacrosse
players to compete on equal footing against other non-scholarship
teams, but the team’s immediate success helped recreate the en-
thusiasm and spectator interest that was characteristic of the 1970s
when the Generals were perennial participants in the NCAA’s Divi-
sion I tournament.

That enthusiasm was no more evident than in the first round
of the NCAA playoffs when the Generals defeated Roanoke Col-
lege 19-11 in one of the most important and dramatic games
Washington and Lee has played in many years. ‘‘We showed a lot
of character, under a great deal of pressure. We needed to play
well, especially after what had happened in our previous game with
Roanoke,’’ Daly said.

Daly’s reference was to the fact that a week
before their NCAA first-round meeting W&L
and Roanoke faced off on Wilson Field with the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference title on the
line. Trailing 14-11 with 59 seconds remaining,
W&L put together a frantic rally to tie the game
at the end of regulation. The Generals kept the
momentum going into the sudden-death over-
time and nearly won in the first extra period,
but senior Bill Garavente’s shot bounced off the
crossbar.

Given that reprieve, Roanoke spoiled the
Generals’ spectacular comeback by scoring the
winning goal just seven seconds into the second
overtime.

 

W&L 25

 

That 15-14 loss was still very much on the
Generals’ minds a week later when Roanoke
revisited Wilson Field for the NCAA first-
round game.

‘“We were down after that first game
against Roanoke, but we were certainly not
out,’’ said Daly.

The rematch appeared headed for
another close finish when the Generals held
a slim 8-7 halftime lead. But the W&L
defense, rallying behind the spectacular
goaltending of senior John Church, shut
Roanoke out during the third quarter when
the Generals built a 12-7 lead. With the
momentum clearly in its favor, W&L
outscored the Maroons 7-5 in the final period
and won going away.

‘‘The win over Roanoke in the NCAA
tournament was probably the highlight of the
season,’’ said Daly. ‘‘But it was also an in-
dication of the determination of everyone on
our team this year.”’

The drive toward a possible national
championship ended abruptly in the
semifinal round when W&L never could get
its offense untracked against the zone
defense of Ohio Wesleyan, which is coach-
ed by former Generals’ football and lacrosse
standout Mike Pressler, ’82.

That loss did not diminish the season’s
many accomplishments. The year had started
with a 16-9 defeat at the hands of Virginia
on a soggy Glen Maury Park Field in Buena
Vista. But the Generals rebounded, ran off
10 straight wins, and earned the No. 1 spot
in the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse
Association’s Division III poll.

‘‘My wildest dreams were realized dur-
ing that period,’’ said Daly of the 10-game
winning streak, which included a 12-8 vic-
tory over Ohio Wesleyan in Lexington.
**Everything seemed to click. The players
performed as well as, if not better than, what
was expected of them. It was at this point
that we gained a lot of confidence.’’

According to Daly, who was a finalist for
the USILA Coach-of-the-Year award, the
Generals achieved most of the goals they set
for themselves: they had a winning record,
the first since 1982; they won more than 10
games; they made the NCAA tournament;
and they reached the semifinals of the na-
tional competition, something a W&L team
had not accomplished since 1975.

The Generals had a host of individual
standouts, led by senior goalie Church, who
was selected to play in the post-season North-
South game.

Meantime on offense, sophomore at-
tackmen John Ware and Neill Redfern
created more havoc for opponents than Dr.
Seuss’s characters Thing One and Thing
Two. Like their namesakes in the children’s

26 W&L

 

he 1986-87 sports year was one of the
most successful in Washington and
Lee history, with the University’s teams
- winning 141 contests and losing only 80.
It was also a year characterized by
noteworthy individual achievements by
coaches and athletes.
: Perhaps the most
prestigious of those
was the Intercollegiate
Tennis Coaches
Association (ITCA)
Coach-of-the-Year
Award, presented to
men’s tennis coach
Franke Gary Franke for his
contributions to intercollegiate tennis.

He joins former lacrosse coach Jack
Emmer and late football coach Lee
McLaughlin as the only W&L coaches to
earn national Coach-of-the-Year honors.

“Tl am honored that my fellow coaches
selected me for this award. It tops off a
very fine season for the team,’’ said
Franke.

He will be formally presented with the
award at the ITCA Coaches Convention,
which will be held in December in Fort
Myers, Fla. Under Franke the Generals
have finished in the top eight of the
NCAA on six occasions. He has been
named Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Coach-of-the-Year in tennis four
times.

The W&L athletic department bestow-
ed its own top honors at the annual Sports
Barbecue and Awards Ceremony in May.

Kevin Weaver, who had one of the
most prolific football careers in the
history of Washington and Lee, was nam-
ed the winner of the Preston R. Brown
Memorial Award as the University’s most
valuable senior athlete.

Weaver, a premed student from Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va., led the nation in scor-
ing and was fourth in rushing two years
ago. He finished his career as the highest

 

 

 

 

Coaches, Athletes Earn Awards

scorer (158 points) in the University’s
history and as W&L’s second all-time
rusher (2,061 yards).

Weaver also ran sprints on the indoor
and outdoor track team for three years,
winning five All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference awards.

Senior Joe Krastel won the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship
Award. Krastel, a business administration
major from Baltimore, was a four-year
member of both the football and lacrosse
teams. In football he played safety and
was fifth on the team in tackles (63). In
lacrosse he played attack and was seventh
on the team in scoring (20 goals).

Senior Jon Thornton, a three-year
starter at quarterback on the football
team, won the Scholar-Athlete Award. A
politics major from Forest, Va., Thorn-
ton earned numerous academic honors
this year, including the ODAC Scholar-
Athlete Award, the National Football
Hall of Fame and Foundation Scholar-
Athlete Award, and honorable mention
Academic All-American.

The Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Awards went to Wes Boyd of Dallas and
Sarah Allen of Spartanburg, S.C. Boyd
won the 100- and 200-meter dashes at the
ODAC track championship and was a
guard on the Generals’ basketball team.
Allen was the standout on W&L’s bud-
ding women’s soccer team, which will
move from developmental to varsity
status this fall.

Sophomore Esther Huffman, a
psychology major from Lovettsville, Va.,
and an administrative assistant with the
basketball team, won the J. L. (Lefty)
Newell Award for outstanding student
service.

The R. E. (Chub) Yeakel Service
Award, for outstanding service, went to
Charles F. (Murph) Murray, W&L’s
proctor and an active supporter of the
athletic department.

 

book The Cat in the Hat, Ware and Redfern
were small but quick and capable of caus-
ing considerable commotion around the
goal. Redfern (dubbed Thing One because
he wears uniform No. 1) had 74 points, the
fifth best single season at W&L. Ware (yes,
he wears No. 2) had 78 points, tying him with
Rob Morgan, ’75, for the second best season.

The Generals placed four players on the
All-America team: Church and Ware were
on the second team; freshman defenseman

Reid Campbell and senior midfielder T. J.
Finnerty were on the honorable mention list.

**Those guys had great seasons, but they
were not the only contributors. In fact, we
won because we never stopped playing as a
team,’’ said Daly.

*“We came a long way. We started with
16 new faces, people who did not have any
varsity experience. And our seniors provid-
ed the leadership that resulted in a very, very
rewarding season.”’

 

 

Other spring results

the track team completed its sweep of the

ODAC championships by winning the
conference’s outdoor meet. The Generals
won nine of the 17 events and finished 55
points ahead of runner-up Roanoke.

In the winter, the Generals had won their
fourth straight ODAC indoor championship.

Junior Andy White, who won both hur-
dle events, was selected Runner-of-the- Year
and head coach Norris Aldridge was named
Coach-of-the-Year.

‘*Although the first-place finishes were
important, we also had many second through
sixth finishes that scored points,’’ said
Aldridge, whose teams enjoyed four straight
undefeated seasons. ‘‘It was a total team per-
formance.”’

Other individual standouts were
freshman Wes Boyd, who won the 100- and
200-meter sprints, and senior Tom Murray,
who set the ODAC record in the shot put
with a throw of 49 feet.

The women’s tennis team improved
dramatically from last year. The Generals
finished fifth in the ODAC tournament, up
from ninth a year ago. The women also had

I: other W&L sports action this spring,

Junior Andy White, left, on his way to victory

a winning season with a 5-3 record.
Sophomore Valerie Pierson led the way with
a 5-4 record in singles. She advanced to the
semifinals of the tournament.

‘We have accomplished a lot in just two
short years, and the players should be proud
of their achievements,’’ said head coach Bill
Washburn.

The W&L golf team finished fifth in the
ODAC tournament in which junior John
Gammage’s two-round total of 157 was good

 

for third place and All-ODAC honors.
Forced to play the majority of the season
without star pitcher Bill Schoettelkotte, a
senior who broke his ankle, the Generals’
baseball team never got on track and finish-
ed with a 6-16 overall record and a 4-11 con-
ference mark. In Schoettelkotte’s absence,
junior Carter Steuart was forced to start 11
of W&L’s 22 games. Sophomore Tom Skeen
led the team in hitting with a .388 average
while senior Chris Talley had 21 RBI.

 

MEN’S TENNIS (18-5)

W&L 6, James Madison 3
W&L 8, Millersville 1

Virginia Tech 7, W&L 2

W&L 8, Slippery Rock 1

W&L 5, Davidson 4

Furman 7, W&L 2

W&L 9, Emory & Henry 0
W&L 7, William & Mary 2
W&L 9, Lynchburg 0

W&L 8, Emory 1

W&L 8, Swarthmore 1

W&L 9, V.M.I. 0

W&L 9, Hampden-Sydney 0
W&L 9, St. Leo 0

W&L 9, Stetson 0

Rollins 5, W&L 4

Flagler 5, W&L 4

W&L 5, North Florida 4

W&L 9, Christopher Newport 0
W&L 8, Averett 1

W&L 7, Rochester 2 (NCAA)
W&L 5, UC Santa Cruz 4 (NCAA)
Kalamazoo 6, W&L 3 (NCAA)

TRACK (6-0)

W&L 99, Roanoke 43

W&L 113, Newport News 48
W&L 113, Eastern Mennonite 15
W&L 80, Heidelberg 50

W&L 80, Bridgewater 48

W&L 80, Eastern Mennonite 3

 

Spring Sports Scoreboard

BASEBALL (6-16)

West Virginia Tech 2, W&L 1
W&L 12, West Virginia Tech 1
Lock Haven 3, W&L 2
Christopher Newport 6, W&L 4
Bridgewater 10, W&L 3

W&L 21, Eastern Mennonite 8
Randolph-Macon 12, W&L 1
Randolph-Macon 8, W&L 6
Lynchburg 19, W&L 2

W&L 4, Emory & Henry 1
Emory & Henry 4, W&L 2
W&L 4, Radford 2

Radford 4, W&L 0

Lynchburg 15, W&L 7

W&L 7, Maryville 4

Maryville 8, W&L 7

W&L 5, Hampden-Sydney 4
Hampden-Sydney 2, W&L 0
Eastern Mennonite 12, W&L 11
Bridgewater 14, W&L 1
Bridgewater 7, W&L 4

V.M.I. 12, W&L 4

WOMEN’S TENNIS (65-3)

W&L 5, Hollins 4

W&L 5, Lynchburg 4
Randolph-Macon Woman’s 5, W&L 4
Emory & Henry 9, W&LO |
Bridgewater 5, W&L 4

W&L 9, Roanoke 0

W&L 5, Sweet Briar 4

W&L 6, Mary Baldwin 3

LACROSSE (11-4)

Virginia 16, W&L 9

W&L 16, Lynchburg 6

W&L 12, Ohio Wesleyan 8
W&L 18, Swarthmore 2

W&L 13, Notre Dame 10

W&L 20, Gettysburg 10

W&L 15, V.M.I. 9

W&L 15, Randolph-Macon 11
W&L 20, Dartmouth 9

W&L 13, Middlebury 5

W&L 16, Hampden-Sydney 6
Washington College 12, W&L 9
Roanoke 15, W&L 14 (20T)
W&L 19, Roanoke 11 (NCAA)
Ohio Wesleyan 17, W&L 4 (NCAA)

GOLF (9-3)

W&L 18th out of 24 at JMU Invitational
Lynchburg 323, W&L 327

W&L 327, Roanoke 331

W&L 327, Bridgewater 342
W&L 327, Ferrum 345

W&L 327, Hampden-Sydney 357
Bridgewater 318, W&L 328
Roanoke 325, W&L 328

W&L 328, Lynchburg 330

W&L 328, Hampden-Sydney 346
W&L 321, Lynchburg 329

W&L 321, Bridgewater 335
W&L 321, Hampden-Sydney 338
5th in ODAC Tournament

 

 

W&L 27

The W&L Gazette

 

Kirgis Resigns As Law School Dean

 

rederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the

School of Law since 1983, has resign-

ed from that position to devote his
full time to teaching and research.

Kirgis’ resignation is effective June 30,
1988, unless a successor is appointed to the
position prior to that date.

‘*‘The demands of the dean’s position
simply do not leave much time for serious
scholarship, and I genuinely miss the oppor-
tunity both to pursue my research and to
teach,’’ said Kirgis.

Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson
said that he accepted
Kirgis’ resignation
‘‘reluctantly and with a
most sincere expression
of gratitude for his effec-
tive and loyal service to
the University and the
School of Law... . Dean Kirgis has con-
tributed enormously to the strengthening of
the School of Law.”’

Wilson added that a committee will be
appointed to conduct a national search for
Kirgis’ successor.

Kirgis came to Washington and Lee in
1978 when he was named the first director
of the University’s Frances Lewis Law
Center, established at W&L to conduct
research into topics on ‘‘the frontiers of
law.”’

 

A specialist in the area of international
law, Kirgis was responsible for establishing
several important programs in the Lewis
Center, including major colloquia that drew
scholars from throughout the country to the
W&L campus to discuss such issues as
uranium mining and international terrorism.

As dean of the law school, Kirgis has
been involved in a two-year study to develop
a new curriculum. His tenure as dean has
also seen increased efforts to attract students
to the School of Law and to bring law firms
from throughout the United States to recruit
Washington and Lee law graduates.

Kirgis said that he was especially pleas-
ed by two developments during his time as
dean. One was the addition of what Kirgis
termed ‘‘an exceptionally talented group of
new faculty members’”’ in the law school. The

28 W&L

 

Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson, left, appeared with W. John Campbell, senior

 

vice president of production for Philip Morris USA, at a Richmond news conference during
which Campbell presented the University with a $250,000 gift from Philip Morris for the new

Center forthe Performing Arts.

other was the creation of several new scholar-
ships for law students.

A native of Washington, D.C., Kirgis
received his undergraduate education at Yale
and his law degree from the University of
California at Berkeley. He specialized in in-
ternational claims as an associate with the
Washington, D.C., firm of Covington and
Burling before embarking on his teaching
career in 1967 as a member of the Universi-
ty of Colorado’s law faculty. He joined the
law faculty at UCLA in 1973 and remained
there until he came to Washington and Lee.

Kirgis is the author of two books, Jnter-
national Organizations and Their Legal Set-
ting and Prior Consultation in International
Law: A Study in State Practice. He recently
completed a term as vice president of the
American Society of International Law and
is currently vice chair of the Independent
Commission on Respect for International
Law. He is a member of the Law Institute.

Kirgis plans to take a sabbatical leave
from Washington and Lee during the
1988-89 academic year and then return to
full-time teaching and research.

Philip Morris gift
supports Performing Arts Center

Philip Morris USA has made a $250,000
contribution to Washington and Lee for the
University’s planned Center for the Perform-
ing Arts.

W&L President John D. Wilson accepted
the gift at a luncheon in Richmond in June.

‘‘We are extremely grateful to Philip
Morris for its substantial gift,’’ Wilson said.
‘‘The new Center for the Performing Arts
will be a magnificent facility for both
Washington and Lee and the Rockbridge
County community. We will be reminded of
the Philip Morris gift each time there is a per-
formance in the new center.’’

Construction on the $9 million facility
will begin in the spring of 1988, if sufficient
funding is secured by that time, with com-
pletion scheduled for 1990. To date, more
than $4 million has been contributed for the
center by alumni, foundations, and
corporations.

The Center for the Performing Arts will
feature a 425-seat main theatre with a

moveable proscenium and adaptable stage
floor. A second experimental theatre—or
black box—will seat 100 and will be used for
a variety of audience-stage relationships.

In addition to the theatres, the Center for
the Performing Arts will also include facul-
ty offices, ample storage, reception areas,
and an art gallery in the main lobby.

Philip Morris has been a benefactor of
Washington and Lee for many years. Dur-
ing the University’s last capital campaign
Philip Morris made a substantial gift for the
renovation and remodeling of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics. In ad-
dition, Philip Morris has established an en-
dowed scholarship fund in honor of Robert
E.R. Huntley, former president of
Washington and Lee and a member of the
Philip Morris board of directors.

Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion
and director of the University’s program in
applied ethics, has been appointed the
Fletcher Otey Thomas Professor of Bible.

The Thomas Pro-
fessorship was establish-
ed in 1977 in memory of
Fletcher Otey Thomas, a
prominent religious,
business, and civic leader
in Bedford, Va. The pro-
fessorship was created by
Thomas’ sons, John
Newton Thomas, ’24, of
Richmond, and the late William O. Thomas,
31.

David W. Sprunt was named the first oc-
cupant of the Thomas Professorship.
Sprunt, who retired from active teaching in
June, will hold the professorship on an
emeritus basis.

Hodges has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1960. He
has taught courses in the department of
religion, published scholarly articles in the
field of social ethics, established the Sum-
mer Institute for Executives, and founded
and served as the sole director of ‘‘Society
and the Professions: Studies in Applied
Ethics,’? a program for pre-professional
undergraduates in business, law, medicine,
and journalism.

A graduate of Millsaps College, Hodges
received both his bachelor of divinity and
Ph.D. degrees from Duke University.

He is known nationally for his work in
professional ethics and was elected in 1985
as a fellow of The Hastings Center, which
is devoted to the study of ethical problems
in modern society.

 

 

Thomas L. Shaffer has been appointed
the Robert E. R. Huntley Professor of Law
at the University.

Established in 1982 by the University’s
Board of Trustees, the
professorship honors
Huntley’s 15-year
presidency of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Roy L. Steinheimer
Jr., who has served as
Huntley Professor,
retired from _ active
teaching in May-and has
been designated the Robert E. R. Huntley
Professor of Law, Emeritus.

Shaffer has been a professor of law at
Washington and Lee since 1980. He also
served from 1983 to 1985 as director of the
Frances Lewis Law Center.

A specialist in the area of legal ethics,
Shaffer is the author of numerous works on
that subject, including a volume published
earlier this year titled Faith and the Profes-
sions. This latest book represents an argu-
ment that the morals of modern American
lawyers and doctors have been corrupted by
misguided professionalism and weak
philosophy.

Widely regarded as one of the country’s
foremost authorities on professional respon-
sibility, Shaffer’s other major works in that
area are On Being a Christian and a Lawyer
(1981) and a textbook, American Legal
Ethics (1985).

A graduate of the University of Albu-

querque, he received his law degree from the
University of Notre Dame, where he taught
for 17 years and served as dean for four years
prior to joining the Washington and Lee
faculty.

In addition to his work in legal ethics,
Shaffer has also conducted research in the
fields of theology, jurisprudence, wills and
estates, alternate dispute resolution, and legal
counseling.

He has held several directorships, in-
cluding service on the executive committee
of the Association of American Law. He is
an active member of many important
organizations, including the American Law
Institute.

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for eight members of the
Washington and Lee faculty. The promo-
tions were approved by the Board of Trustees
in May and are effective Sept. 1.

Promoted from associate professor to
full professor are: Philip L. Cline (ad-
ministration and economics); Craig
McCaughrin (politics); J. Holt Merchant
(history); Ronald L. Reese (physics); and
Gordon P. Spice (music).

Promoted from assistant professor to
associate professor are: Wayne M. Dymacek
(mathematics) and Edward O. Henneman
(law).

Promoted from instructor to assistant
professor is Kathy J. Koberstein (romance
languages).

A Nice Place to Visit

Both Washington and Lee and the city of Lexington have recently received atten-
tion in two of the nation’s largest newspapers.

The New York Times and The Boston Globe published articles about Lexington
in their travel sections during May. Both articles were circulated nationally. ©

‘“On the trim campus of Washington and Lee University crowned with its classic
white colonnade, students still go by the gentleman’s code of honor,’’ read the Times
article, which also described the University’s Lee Chapel and Reeves Center.

‘‘Along Main Street, with its 19th-century atmosphere, passers-by look strangers
in the eye and bid them good day,”’ the story continued. ‘‘And just out of town,
there are untainted woods and clear waters, where beavers still slap their tails and
great blue herons stand on one foot marking their prey.’’

The Globe called Washington and Lee ‘‘one of the prettiest campuses in the na-
tion,’’ adding that ‘‘it was in Lexington that Lee, with extraordinary dignity and
courage, reconciled himself—and by his example many others—to the harsh realities
of defeat: and it was here that Jackson toughened and disciplined himself for war.

‘‘Both generals are locally regarded more as absent neighbors than historical
figures, and so many traces of each remain that it almost seems as if they aren’t dead
at all, but rather merely off campaigning, shortly to return in triumph.”’

W&L 29

After 35 years of service, Dr. Frederick
A. Feddeman has retired from his post as
campus physician at Washington and Lee.

Feddeman joined the Washington and
Lee staff in 1952 and has directed the Stu-
dent Health Center.

A 1940 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Feddeman received his M.D. from Jefferson
Medical College in 1949. In addition to his
duties at W&L, he has had a private medical
practice in Lexington.

Dr. Robert M. Pickral, who has been a
campus physician at W&L for two years, will
become director of the Student Health
Center.

In addition, the University will employ
two other Lexington physicians in the Stu-
dent Health Center. They are Dr. David EIll-
ington and Dr. Jane Horton-Marcella.

The Washington and Lee University
Board of Trustees has authorized the Univer-
sity to begin the first phase of a major frater-
nity house renovation effort.

At its spring meeting held in Lexington
in May, the Trustees approved a proposal
from the campus life committee that the
University employ an architectural firm for
a feasibility study of the renovation project.

In addition, the Board has established an
ad hoc committee to examine possible
financing options to perform the recom-
mended renovations.

The feasibility study will involve on-site
inspections of the University’s 17 fraternity
houses in an attempt to identify needed
improvements.

Those inspections, which will begin this
summer, will include such areas as the
heating, electrical, and fire safety systems.
The condition of each of the fraternity
houses in relation to all the other houses will
be evaluated.

Among the recommendations that could
be made as a result of the feasibility study
are for improvements in space utilization,
modernized kitchen/dining facilities, and
renovated living spaces. The study will in-
clude a preliminary cost estimate for all the
recommended improvements.

**This is a necessary first step in order to
get a better handle on what we are actually
talking about in terms of renovating the
various houses,’’ said J. Thomas Touchton,
chairman of the Trustees’ campus life com-
mittee. ‘‘We anticipate there will be con-
siderable variance between the renovations
required by some houses as opposed to
others.’’

30 =W&L

 

Washington and Lee fraternity members sloshed and slogged their way through an
“Oozeball Tournament’’ during Greek Week last spring. The oozeball (volleyball played in
the mud) competition was one of several events held by the 17 fraternities to raise money
for the United Way, the American Cancer Society, and the Lexington Shelter for the
Homeless.

Once the feasibility study is completed,
the Trustees’ ad hoc committee will be in a
better position to consider possible methods
of financing the renovations and repairs.
That committee will work closely with
representatives of the fraternities’ house cor-
porations, which are composed primarily of
alumni who are, in effect, the landlords who
rent the fraternity property to the current stu-
dent members.

**T think it is important that the Univer-
sity’s students realize that this Board of
Trustees is interested in having our frater-
nities play as positive a role in the total
University and Lexington communities as
possible,’’ Touchton said. ‘‘Authorizing this

feasibility study is one indication of that in-
terest and this Board’s commitment to an
overall renaissance of the Washington and
Lee fraternity system.’’

That renaissance movement has begun on
several different fronts. A committee of the
University’s Alumni Association has been at
work throughout this year and sponsored a
Symposium on the campus last fall when
students, administrators, and alumni discuss-
ed several important topics concerning
fraternity life.

Approximately 75 percent of Washington
and Lee’s male undergraduate students are
members of fraternities. More than 225 up-
perclassmen live in the fraternities each year.

 

Kamen Collection exhibited

The Stan Kamen Collection of Western
Art, a unique view of the American West,
was exhibited on the campus for the first
time during May.

The collection came to the University in
1986 as a bequest of the late Stan Kamen,
°49L, who had been executive vice president
with responsibility for worldwide motion pic-
ture interests for the William Morris Agency.

Throughout his 36-year career with the
Morris Agency, Kamen had filled his Malibu
home and his Beverly Hills office with paint-
ings, prints, and sculpture reflecting his love
of horses and the Western landscape.

The May exhibit of the Kamen Collec-
tion in the duPont Gallery represented a
preview of what will become a permanent in-
stallation of the collection in the Universi-
ty’s new Center for the Performing Arts
(May/June, Alumni Magazine).

Pamela H. Simpson, professor of art
history at Washington and Lee, noted that
the Kamen collection ‘‘brings to Washington
and Lee one man’s personal taste and
knowledge. It offers a view of the American
West and particularly of the ‘Old West’ that
has been created by some of America’s
foremost 20th-century western artists.’’

Included among the artists represented in
the Kamen Collection are Frederick Rem-
ington, Louis Lichtenfield, and Gerson
Frank.

Sarah Boehme, curator of the Whitney
Gallery of Art at the Buffalo Bill Historical
Center in Cody, Wyo., presented a lecture,
‘*America’s Fascination with the West,’’ to
open the duPont showing.

 

spring.

The Stan Kamen Collection of Western Art was the major exhibit in duPont Gallery during the

During their spring meeting on the cam-
pus, the University’s Board of Trustees held
a reception in honor of the collection at
which members of the Kamen family were
recognized.

In addition to the collection of Western
art, Kamen’s bequest to the University
established a scholarship in memory of his
parents. The Hyman and Estelle Kamen
Scholarship is a full-tuition stipend to be
awarded annually to American students at-
tending Washington and Lee.

In his capacity with the William Morris
Agency, Kamen contributed to the develop-
ment of such projects and major films as
Sophie’s Choice, The China Syndrome, On
Golden Pond, Reds, Bonnie and Clyde, and
Midnight Express.

Library receives collection
of National Geographic

Gilmore N. Nunn, ’31, of Marathon,
Fla., has given the University a complete col-
lection of original National Geographic
magazines.

The collection consists of more than 180
volumes, beginning with the magazine’s first
issue and continuing through 1985. The col-
lection, which will be housed in the Univer-
sity Library, is valued at $27,500.

‘‘The National Geographic collection will
be a valuable addition to the library’s
holdings,’’ said Barbara J. Brown, Univer-
sity librarian.

Nunn has spent his career in newspaper
publishing, radio and television broadcasting
development, and real estate and land
development.

Honors, awards

e Shayam K. Menon of Ranson, W.Va.,
a 1987 graduate and president of the student
body for the 1986-87 academic year, was the
recipient of the Frank Johnson Gilliam
Award, which is presented to the student
who has made the most conspicuous con-
tributions to life at Washington and Lee.

Menon has been a dormitory counselor,
a member of the student recruitment com-
mittee, and a member of Phi Kappa Psi
social fraternity in addition to three years on
the executive committee of the student body.

e Michael D. Webb was named the reci-
pient of the G. Holbrook Barber Scholar-
ship, which is awarded to a member of the
rising senior class who manifests superior
qualities of helpfulness and friendship to his
or her fellow students, public spirit, scholar-
ship, and personal character.

Webb, who is from Jersey City, N.J., has
been active in the University Theatre,
WLUR-FM, and the Student Recruitment
Committee.

e Jefferson Davis Futch, professor of
history, was the winner of the seventh an-
nual William Webb Pusey III Award for
outstanding service and dedication to the
University. The Pusey Award was created in
1981 by the student body executive commit-
tee and is named in honor of William Webb
Pusey III, who served W&L as professor,
dean, and acting president from 1939 until
his retirement in 1981.

Futch is a specialist in Renaissance and
modern European history. He has been a
member of the W&L faculty for 25 years.

e Washington and Lee’s student
newspaper, The Ring-tum Phi, presented its
1987 awards for outstanding service to Carol
B. Calkins, student center receptionist and
secretary to the student activities department;
Jeffery G. Hanna, University editor and
director of communications; David W.
Sprunt, retiring Fletcher Otey Thomas Pro-
fessor of Bible and University chaplain; W.
Hildebrandt Surgner, a 1987 graduate from
Flourtown, Pa.; and Robert A. Vienneau,
a 1987 graduate from LaSalle, Canada.

e Kevin L. Yeager, a rising junior from
Mercersburg, Pa., is the 1987 winner of the
Cincinnati Award. The award is conferred
upon the author of the best essay in
American military history or some other sub-
ject in colonial, revolutionary, or Civil War
history of the United States.

Yeager’s paper, ‘‘The Maturation of a
Fighting Unit: A History of the Sixteenth
Pennsylvanian Cavalry during the
Chancellorsville Campaign, February-May,
1863,’’ was chosen for the award by a com-
mittee on behalf of the W&L faculty.

W&L 31

 

 

> %

DS val

Ithough the balloting was more

than nine months away,
Washington and Lee’s 1988 Mock
Democratic Convention got off to a
flying start in May when Rev. Jesse
Jackson addressed a crowd of 2,500
on the Front Campus.

Jackson’s appearance at Wash-
ington and Lee came less than a week
after Gary Hart had bowed out of the
campaign, leaving Jackson as a front-
runner in many of the polls.

In his 40-minute speech, Jackson
touched on everything from foreign
policy to farm policy, from drugs to
voter apathy.

But he began by paying tribute to
the legacy of Robert E. Lee, whose
chapel formed the backdrop for his
speech.

 

Jesse Jackson Kicks Off
1988 Mock Democratic Convention

 

Said Jackson: ‘‘Robert E.
Lee . . . chose the moral and political
high ground’’ after the Civil War.

‘Despite his role as the
commander-in-chief of the Con-
federate forces, [Lee] sought the path
of reconciliation. In both words and
deeds;.Lee chose to put aside the fail-
ings of the past and point to the pros-
pects of the future. He chose healing
as opposed to more hurt and pain. He
chose to believe that human beings,
setting aside the barriers of their past
differences, could go forward working
together to build a better nation. Out
of the adversity and conflict could
come the strength to shape a new
tomorrow..”’

The challenge of today, added
Jackson, is the same. ‘‘Leadership is

called upon to challenge us to take the
moral and political high ground and
to bring out the best of vision and
idealism within our character as a
nation.”’

Jackson went on to touch upon the
broad themes that he is likely to stress
if (or, more likely, when) he formally
launches his campaign for the
Democratic nomination. Those themes
included economic recovery, human
rights, equal rights, and voter
registration.

While his audience included a
cross-section of the Lexington com-
munity in addition to members of the
University community, he saved his
most pointed remarks for the students,
warning them against the dangers of
drugs and asking them to get involved
in the political process.

In fact, Jackson held a political
version of an old-fashioned altar call.
He asked those in the audience who
were 18 but not yet registered voters
to come down to the front. As the
number of non-registered voters who
had made their way through the crowd
to a position in front of the stage on
the Lee Chapel terrace continued to
swell, Jackson quipped: ‘‘Mock Con-
vention? These are mock Americans.’’
He asked the 100 or so who finally
gathered to promise that they would
register and participate in the political
process.

The Mock Democratic Convention
will be held March 25-26 next year.
Organizers of the convention have
pushed the dates forward by more
than a month in order to offer the
students a sterner challenge. The pro-
liferation of presidential primaries in
recent years had meant the selection
process was virtually complete by the
time the Mock Convention was held in
May.

 

e Mark S. Herman, a 1987 graduate
from West Redding, Conn., was the first
winner of the newly created Favermann Prize
in art. The award was established by Mark
Favermann, ’69, and his wife, Barbara, to
recognize outstanding achievement in studio
art. It goes to the junior or senior who has
done the most outstanding work in painting,
sculpture, or printmaking for the year as
determined by the art division faculty. Her-
man won for a soapstone carving,
**Sculpture III,’’ which was acquired by the
University as part of the Favermann Prize.

32. W&L

 

Herreshoff painting
on display in national gallery

A Louise Herreshoff painting that is part
of Washington and Lee’s Reeves Collection
is included in the inaugural show of the Na-
tional Museum of Women in the Arts in
Washington, D.C.

Herreshoff’s ‘‘Poppies’’ is part of
*‘American Women Artists, 1830-1930,’’
which begins with the Peale sisters of
Philadelphia and concludes with Georgia
O’ Keefe.

In a review for The New York Times,
Roberta Smith wrote: ‘‘. ..a work that
makes one curious to see more is the roughly
impastoed painting of flowers by an artist
named Louise Herreshoff.’’

Herreshoff’s paintings came _ to
Washington and Lee in 1967 as part of the
bequest to the University by her husband, the
late Euchlin Reeves, ’27L, which created the
Reeves Collection of Porcelain and Painting.
Some of Herreshoff’s work is on permanent
display in the Reeves Center.

The Bookshelt

 

From the Lee Girls to Linear Algebra

 

The Lee Girls
Mary P. Coulling
(John F. Blair, Publisher)

As part of her work for Washington and
Lee’s development office in the 1950s, Mary
P. Coulling periodically searched the Univer-
sity’s archives to find ‘‘filler’’ material for
the alumni magazine. On one occasion she
happened to run across a number of un-
transcribed letters written by the daughters
of Robert E. Lee.

That discovery sparked an interest in the
famous general’s daughters, who have been
virtually ignored by scholars. The Lee Girls
is the culmination of 20 years of research,
much of it conducted at Washington and
Lee.

In this volume, Coulling traces the lives
of Mary Custis, Agnes, Annie, and Mildred
Lee from their childhood at Arlington (Mrs.
Lee’s family home), to their sudden
uprooting during the war, to their busy, ac-
tive days in the president’s home on the cam-
pus of Washington College and _ their
loneliness after his death.

Using letters and journal and diary en-
tries, Coulling portrays a family bound
together by mutual love and concern. But she
also describes the tensions—and even
heartbreaks—associated with being the
daughters of the Confederacy’s most famous
hero.

The Lee Girls provides a portrait of
Southern life during the 19th century and the
adaptation of one Southern family to the
catastrophic change brought about by the
Civil War.

Mary Coulling is married to Sidney
M. B. Coulling, the S. Blount Mason Pro-
fessor of English at Washington and Lee.
This is her first book.

Elementary Linear Algebra
Robert S. Johnson and
Thomas O. Vinson Jr.

(Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc.)
Between them Robert S. Johnson and

Thomas O. Vinson Jr. have 42 years of

teaching experience at Washington and Lee.
Johnson and Vinson have combined to

write Elementary Linear Algebra, a basic text

that focuses on theorems and conse-

      

; Coulling

 

quences written for the one-semester elemen-
tary linear algebra course.

Throughout the 342-page volume,
students find that theorems, proofs, and
definitions are clearly presented and explain-
ed. In the early chapters, the specific steps
within the proofs are especially detailed.

The book features 400 exercises and 200
worked examples plus an appendix on
mathematical induction that gives students
a concise yet complete preparation for prov-
ing theorems.

Johnson is the Cincinnati Professor of
Mathematics at W&L. He joined the facul-
ty in 1965. He received the B.S. degree from
Georgetown and the M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of North
Carolina.

Vinson joined the W&L faculty in 1967.
He received his A.B. degree from Emory
University and his Ph.D. from Virginia
Tech.

Faith and the Professions
Thomas L. Shaffer
(Brigham Young University Press)

Thomas L. Shaffer’s latest book on legal
ethics is an argument that the morals of
modern American lawyers and doctors have
been corrupted by misguided professionalism
and weak philosophy.

In Faith and the Professions, Shaffer also
shows that professional codes exalt voca-
tional principle over the traditional morals
of character, but that, in practice, America’s
professional and business people cultivate

the ethics of character. The ethics of virtue
have been neglected.

The ethical argument in Faith and the
Professions is in part an application to pro-
fessional life of the position taken by
Alasdair MacIntyre in After Virtue and in
Revisions and by Robert Bellah and his col-
laborators in Habits of the Heart. He also
argues for the relevance of religious ethics.

Shaffer is the Robert E. R. Huntley Pro-
fessor of Law at Washington and Lee.

Now Let the Gospel Trumpet Blow:

A History of New Monmouth Presbyterian
Church, 1746-1980

I. Taylor Sanders Jr.

In this book Taylor Sanders, professor
of history at Washington and Lee, explores
the history of one of Rockbridge County’s
oldest churches.

New Monmouth Presbyterian Church
traces its roots to 1746, when Scotch-Irish
settlers established a meeting house on
Wood’s Creek in what is now Lexington.
The church was later moved several miles
outside of town.

Sanders examines New Monmouth from
within the framework of the larger com-
munity of Lexington, Rockbridge County,
and 18th- and 19th-century Washington and
Lee. In particular he describes the congrega-
tion’s long association with both Augusta
and Liberty Hall academies (two of
Washington and Lee’s forerunners), and he
pays special tribute to such church leaders
as William Graham, New Monmouth’s first
pastor and the founder of Liberty Hall, and
William McCutcheon Morrison, an 1887
graduate of Washington and Lee and mis-
sionary to Africa.

‘*It is hard to imagine either the church
or the college being here today had it not
been for Graham,”’’ Sanders says. ‘‘Morrison
was New Monmouth’s most famous son, and
arguably was W&L’s most impressive alum-
nus.”’

Sanders received his bachelor’s degree
from Centre College and his master’s and
Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. He
joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
1969 and also serves as the University
historian.

W&L 33

Alumni News

 

Classes of ’37, °62, Celebrate with Major Gifts

 

uring a warm, sunshine-filled

weekend in May, alumni gathered

in Lexington to honor distinguished
graduates, to present major gifts to the
University, and to reminisce about their years
at Washington and Lee.

More than 500 alumni, families, and
guests—one of the largest turnouts in many
years—enjoyed the three days of picnics,
concerts, panel discussions, and nostalgia
during the annual spring reunions.

Parke Rouse, ’37, contributing editor of
the Newport News Daily Press, kicked off
the festivities Thursday evening with an ad-
dress titled ‘‘Robert E. Lee, Francis P.
Gaines, and Herb the Dog Man.”’

“*In the 50 years since I left here,’’ Rouse
confided, ‘‘I’ve lost much of my faith in the
infallibility of newspapers, and of most other
institutions that seemed so infallible when I
was a student. But I’ve never lost faith in
Washington and Lee—even when it didn’t
take boys that I recommended [for
admission].

‘‘Our alma mater to me seems close to
the ideal in character, in size, in location. It
has stuck to the high purpose of educating
some of the nation’s ablest people, never
depending on the government for a darn
cent.’’

His years at Washington and Lee, Rouse
said, were enriched by such individuals as
President Francis P. Gaines and enlivened
by characters like Herb the Dog Man, who
sold puppies to students from W&L and the
surrounding women’s colleges. But despite
his fond memories of the University he at-
tended in the ’30s, Rouse was enthusiastic
about the changes that have occurred at
Washington and Lee in the 50 years since he
and his classmates graduated.

‘**T go along with three major decisions
that this University has made since my day,”’
he said. ‘‘The first was to limit the school’s
size and retain its personal instruction. The
second was to abolish subsidized athletics
and thereby protect the Honor System. And
the third was to admit women students to
restore our high desirability in the academic
world. The current surge in applications and
the dramatic rise of the SAT scores of our
freshmen to me fully justify that very dif-
ficult choice.”’

34. W&L

 

Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, left, the outgo-
ing president of the Alumni Association, offers
congratulations to his successor, John W.
Folsom, ’73.

aa

 

Two of the Distinguished Alumni winners
were, from left, W. D. Bain, ’49L, and Edgar
M. Boyd, ’42.

Added Rouse: ‘‘Whatever strengthens
Washington and Lee is desirable.”’

Strengthening the University was
foremost in the minds of the classes of 1937
and 1962, whose members presented major
gifts to the University. Those classes were
continuing the custom established a year ago
whereby the 25th and 50th reunion classes
celebrate their return with special fund-
raising efforts.

Led by Andrew H. Baur of St. Louis, the
Class of 1937 has raised more than $500,000
to renovate the first floor of the Alumni
House and to establish one or two
scholarships.

Meantime, Peter Agelasto, ’62, of
Virginia Beach announced that a gift of
$263,800 from his class will be used to form
an endowment to encourage faculty research.
As a result of the gift, one faculty member
each year will be designated a ‘‘Class of ’62
Fellow’’ and will be supported by funds from
the endowment to undertake a special proj-
ect during the summer or during a sabbatical
leave. Upon completion of the project Class
of ’62 Fellows will be required to report to
the University community on the results of
their research through a lecture, demonstra-
tion, article, or the like. The gift further
stipulated that such a report be accompanied
by a social occasion.

Announcement of those two reunion gifts
was made during the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association in Lee Chapel. In his
remarks to alumni, President John D.
Wilson expressed the University’s gratitude
to both reunion classes.

‘*This magnificent gift that [the Class of
1937] has conferred upon the University to
help cement alumni relations with one hand,
and then also to strengthen the student body
through a scholarship program with the
other, is deeply appreciated,’’ Wilson said.
“(The Class of 1962] has brought not only
generosity and magnificent feeling to the
University, but also a spirit of fun, zest, and
some imagination to help the faculty.’’

During the annual meeting, the Alumni
Association presented three Distinguished
Alumnus Awards. The recipients, selected by
the Board of Directors of the Alumni
Association, were:

e W. D. Bain Jr., ’49L, of Spartanburg,

_
Ses

 

As always, reunions were a time to renew acquaintances with classmates.

Examining a Phi Gamma Delta scrapbook

S.C., president of the Moreland Develop-
ment Co.;

e Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, of Baltimore, a
limited partner at Baker, Watts and Co., an
investment banking firm;

e the late Horace Gooch Jr., °31L,
founder of Worcester Molded Plastics.

The three were honored for their profes-
sional and civic achievements and for their
service to Washington and Lee.

Bain served on the Board of Directors of

 

 

ae

the Alumni Association from 1978 to 1982
and the Development Council of the Board
of Trustees from 1977 to 1981. He was a class
agent for three years and currently is a
member of the University’s Planning and
Development Council.

Boyd is a former class agent and a former
member of the Alumni Board of Directors.
He has been active in numerous civic
organizations in Baltimore, including the
Chamber of Commerce and the Maryland

Andrew H. Baur, ’37, directed fundraising efforts for the Class of 1937 reunion gift.

 

General Hospital.

Gooch, who died in February, was a class
agent, a member of the Estate Planning
Council, and a member of the council that
assisted the University in its $67 million
development campaign that concluded in
1981.

The Alumni Association also announc-
ed changes in leadership. John W. Folsom,
°73, of Columbia, S.C., took over the
presidency of the Board of Directors, suc-

W&L = 35

 

 

ceeding Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton, ’62,
°65L, of Chicago.

In addition, five new members were ap-
pointed to the Board of Directors. They are
G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, of Shreveport,
La.; Clay T. Jackson, ’76, of Nashville,
Tenn.; Eugene C. Perry Jr., ’75, ’78L, of
Somerset, N.J.; John W. Robinson IV, ’72,
of Tampa, Fla.; and Warren A. Stephens,
°79, of Little Rock, Ark.

Deighan joins Alumni Office

Christopher J. Deighan, a 1987
Washington and Lee graduate, has been
named alumni staff
associate at the University
m for the 1987-88 year.
| Deighan succeeded J.
Caulley Deringer, ’86, in
the post on July 1.

As alumni = staff
associate, Deighan will
work’ closely’ with
Kathekon, the student
alumni association, contribute to the Alum-
ni Magazine, and help coordinate on-

 

campus alumni functions such as homecom-
ing and alumni reunions.

While a student, Deighan has been
business manager of the Glee Club, a
member of Southern Comfort and the
University Chorus, and treasurer of the Lam-
post, the off-campus Christian house. In ad-
dition to writing for the student newspaper,
Deighan was editor of the student handbook.

For three years, he has been an assistant
to the Office of Summer Programs and has
spent two summers working with those pro-
grams in Lexington.

“*1’m delighted to have someone of
Chris’s experience. His work with the W&L
Alumni College will make him an invaluable
addition to the alumni office staff,’’ said
Richard B. Sessoms, W&L director of alum-
ni programs.

Chapter News

Several alumni chapters played host to
visiting members of the University ad-
ministration during May.

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the School
of Law, spoke to a dinner meeting of the

Southside Virginia chapter in Danville.

Alumni office staff members James D.
Farrar Jr., 74, and Deringer presented a
slide show, ‘‘Washington and Lee Today:
Old Truths, New Realities,’’ at the Birm-
ingham and San Antonio clubs, respectively.

John W. Elrod, dean of the College, was
the special guest at a dinner meeting of the
Southern Ohio chapter in Cincinnati.

President John D. Wilson met with the
Pittsburgh chapter along with Farris P.
Hotchkiss, vice president for University rela-
tions and development, and Richard B.
Sessoms, alumni secretary.

Meanwhile, the New Orleans chapter’s
softball team participated in a tournament
with teams from Sewanee, Harvard, and
Vanderbilt.

The New York chapter held its final
**Second-Thursday Lunch’’ of the season in
order to plan events for the summer and fall.
Members of the Richmond chapter joined
alumni of other Virginia colleges for a
barbecue while Detroit chapter members par-
ticipated in an Old Dominion Day at Grosse
Pointe, Mich.

 

 

G. Archer Frierson II, ’73
Partner, Frierson Plantation
Shreveport, La.

NW Louisiana Chapter President, 1983-87
Annual Fund Vice Chairman, 1979-80
Class Agent, 1975-83

Eugene C. Perry Jr., ’75, ’78L
President, Wilkinson & Perry
Philadelphia, Pa.

New York Chapter Council, 1986-87
Minority Recruitment Fundraising
Chairman, 1981-83
Black Alumni Committee, 1980-87

 

New
Alumni

_ Board
Members

John W. Robinson IV, ’72
Attorney/Tampa, Fla.
Fla. West Coast Chapter President, 1986-87
Class Agent, 1985-87
Tampa AAP Chairman, 1982-86
Fla. West Coast Scholarship Fund
Co-Chairman

 

Clay T. Jackson, ’76
Exec. V-Pres., Cooper, Love & Jackson
Nashville, Tenn.
Middle Tenn. Chapter President, 1983-87
Nashville AAP Chairman, 1978-87
Class Agent, 1981-85

 

Warren A. Stephens, ’79
President, Stephens, Inc.
Little Rock, Ark.
Little Rock AAP Chairman, 1983-84
W&L Institute for Executives Advisory
Committee

 

 

36 = W&L

Graduating Sons and Daughters of W&L Alumni

SELLE LTTETELE
REPEL SEE SS ES Ses

 

   
       

1987 baccalaureate degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (left to right): John G. Koedel, ’28L, (grandfather), John G.
Koedel Jr., ’59, John G. Koedel III; John J. Barnes Jr., 60, David N. Barnes; Robert F. MacCachran, ’43, Bradford J. MacCachran;
Nicholas G. Mandak, ’54, ’56L, Jeffrey S. Mandak; Donald H. Partington, ’61, ’64L, Bruce D. Partington; Samuel P. Simpson IV,

65, Samuel P. Simpson V; Jack O. Friedman, ’56, Michael S. Friedman; Richard H. Turrell, ’49, Douglas W. Turrell; Wayne D. McGrew
Jr., °52, Raymond M. McGrew.

io , i. :
Fi 5 5

ESS

1987 baccalaureate degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (left to right): Gilbert Russell Ladd III, ’57, Gilbert R. Ladd
IV; Ronald H. Marks, ’68L, Jeffrey L. Marks; Barkley J. Sturgill, ’52L, Barkley J. Sturgill Jr.; Rev. Richard T. Harbison, °54, William
R. Harbison; Richard W. Hoover, ’61, Alejandro Lopez-Duke; Col. James W. Shugart III, ’61, David A. Shugart; Marquis M. Smith
Jr., 57, Marquis M. Smith III; James R. Wingert Jr., ’54, Grayson P. Wingert; A. Prescott Rowe, ’60, John P. Rowe; Dr. Joseph
E. Ringland, ’60, Judith M. Ringland; Sydney E. Marthinson, daughter of the late Detlow M. Marthinson, ’56.

 

1987 academic degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (left to right):
W. Milam Turner Jr., ’56, William M. Turner IIT; Charles J. Cella, ’58, Louis A.
Cella; Leroy H. Simkins Jr., ’55, Nathaniel T. Simkins; Edward Cohen, °55, ’57L,
Jeffrey A. Cohen; Charles P. Mays Jr., 58, Charles P. Mays II; Richard C.

Whiteford, ’57, Mark H. Whiteford; Charles M. Conway Jr., °62, Charles M. Con-
way III.

 

1987 law degree recipient, James P. Cargill (left),
with his father John G. Cargill Jr., ’54.

W&L 37

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

Py s (1

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$175.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$160.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

NOTE: As of July 1, 1987, the manufacturer is six months behind filling orders.

 

 

38

W&L

1922

Dr. Harry Lyons will receive the Callahan Medal
from the Ohio Dental Association in September.
The award is for distinguished service in the realm
of dental education. He lives in Richmond.

1924

Edmund M. Cameron and his wife, Mary, were
the subject of a feature story in the Durham Morn-
ing Herald recently. The story highlighted
Cameron’s many accomplishments in_inter-
collegiate athletics, including his feats as an athlete
at Washington and Lee and his years as a coach
at Duke University. Cameron’s name has long
been synonymous with Duke athletics and that
school’s basketball arena, Cameron Indoor
Stadium, is named in his honor. He and Mary,
whose numerous Civic activities were also cited in
the article, live in Durham, N.C.

1925

John Minor Wisdom, United States Circuit Judge
for the Fifth Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals,
was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree
from Middlebury College during that school’s
commencement exercises in May. Following three
decades as a lawyer, Wisdom was named to the
bench by President Eisenhower and has been
associated with some of the most significant opin-
ions in the area of civil rights law. He lives in New

Orleans.

Dr. Charles W. Lowry Jr. of Pinehurst, N.C.,
piloted a pacer, ‘‘Big Gene,’’ to a second-place
finish in a race during the annual matinee of the
Pinehurst Driving and Training Club in March.

1927

David H. Wice is an adjunct professor of religion
at St. Charles Borromeo Seminary and is also a
member of 11 different boards of local, national,
and international organizations. He is Rabbi
Emeritus of Rodeph Shalom Synagogue in
Philadelphia, where he lives.

1930

L. Palmer Brown received an honorary doctor of
humane letters degree from Rhodes College at the
Memphis school’s 138th commencement June 6.
He has been a life trustee of the college since 1982
and is owner and president emeritus of L.P. Brown

Co. of Memphis.
1932

J. Bernard Spector is now completely retired from
his Miami law practice and has recently bought
a home in Hound Ears Club in Blowing Rock,
N.C., where he plans to spends his summers and
hopes to improve his golf game.

1933

J. Norton Hoffman spent 40 years with the J.C.
Penney Co. and “‘retired’’ to nine years with the
Canadian Consulate General in New York. He
now lives in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

Dr. Charles W. Kaufman, a consulting engineer
and president of CJC Associates of Tucson, Ariz.,
has accepted an invitation to address the 7th World

 

Congress of Science and Technology in Singapore
this fall. Scientists from all over the world
representing most fields of science and engineer-
ing will participate in the event, which will involve
more than 15,000 persons.

Dr. Robert R. Smith spent most of 1986
celebrating. His 75th birthday and his 50th wed-
ding anniversary both occurred that year. In May
1987, he celebrated the 50th anniversary of his
graduation from medical school at the University
of Pennsylvania. He lives in Ocean City, N.J.

1935

Dr. Guy H. Branaman has been retired from his
42-year practice of medicine for three years and
lives in Raleigh, N.C.

Thomas Coley has retired from acting and writing
and lives in his log house in the Berkshires near
Tyringham, Mass.

Gilbert R. Swink Jr. is now retired as magistrate
for the U.S. District Court in Norfolk and spends
his time hunting, fishing, and playing golf.

1936

Thomas H. Alphin was recently ‘‘repossessed’’ by
Henrietta, his wife of 35 years, following 12 years
apart. After a wedding in Charlottesville, the
Alphins are moving to a farm near Goshen, Va.

V.A. (Jax) Browning reports he is in good health
at 74 and is still active in Masonry. He is current-
ly Prelate of Bethlehem Knights Templar Com-
mandery #19 and Chaplain of Oriental Chapter
#19 Royal Arch Masons—both of York Rite
Masonry. He has been a continuing Master Mason
since 1956 and was Master of his Blue Lodge,
District Deputy Grand Master, and Grand Orator,
and has conducted 131 six-hour oral examinations
for proficiency of the entirety of all the Blue Lodge
Work. He was coroneted a 33-degree Scottish Rite
Mason in 1971. He and his wife, Anna, live in Ren-

ton, Wash.
1937

Alexander McIntosh, whose summer home is in
North Branford, Conn., spends the winter months
in Port St. Lucie, Fla., where he scored three holes-
in-one in four days last December.

1938

Paul M. Miller received a master’s degree in
English literature from San Francisco State Univer-
sity in May. His thesis was titled ‘‘Charles
Wadsworth, Spiritual Preceptor to Emily Dickin-
son.”’

1940

John C. Snidow retired in January as judge of the
General District Court for the 27th Judicial District
of Virginia. He went on the bench in July 1974.
He lives in Christiansburg.

1943

Robert S. Lambert Jr. is living in semi-retirement
in Fort Worth, Texas. He is mostly involved in
non-commercial voluntary efforts.

Joseph E. Lee was presented an honorary lifetime
membership in the Chemical Specialties Manufac-
turers Association (CSMA) during the 73rd
meeting of CSMA in Chicago in April. Lee retired
from the McLaughlin Gormley King Co. of Min-
neapolis in the fall of 1986. He served CSMA for
40 years as a member of various committees and
was the association’s president in 1969.

1944

Robert A. Hite retired in December after 18 years
with Hawaiian Trust Co., Ltd., of Honolulu. He
retired as vice president.

 

Sydney and Frances Lewis of Rich-
mond were among 11 recipients of the
1987 Medal of Arts Award from Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan.

Frances Lewis is currently a Trustee
of Washington and Lee; Sydney Lewis,
40, ’43L, is a Trustee Emeritus.

The Lewises joined the other winners,
including singer Ella Fitzgerald, art
patron and businessman Armand Ham-
mer, and poet Robert Penn Warren. They

received their awards from the president
on June 18 following a White House
luncheon.

First presented in 1984, the Medal of

_ Arts Awards are given each year to no

 

 

President Reagan honors Lewises

more than 12 groups or individuals who,
in the president’s judgment, ‘‘are deser-
ving of special recognition by reason of
their outstanding contributions to the ex-
cellence, growth, support, and availability
of arts in the United States.’’

The Lewises have been collecting art
since the early 1960s and, in 1985,
donated most of their personal collection
of more than 1,200 contemporary paint-
ings and sculptures and 600 art nouveau
and art deco objects, to the Virginia
Museum.

Additionally, a $6 million gift from
the Lewises was used in the construction
of the Virginia Museum’s new West
Wing, which is where the Lewises’ collec-
tion is housed.

Nancy Reagan referred to that gift
and the Lewises’ many other contribu-
tions when she read the citation, which
noted that ‘‘Frances and Sydney Lewis
have devoted a lifetime to supporting the
arts’’ and went on to praise them for their
work in continuing ‘‘the American tradi-
tion as great and sensitive volunteers for
the arts.”’

 

1946

Frederick S. Holley is style and usage consultant
for the Los Angeles Times and is the author of
The Los Angeles Times Stylebook. He produces
an occasional ‘‘Style & Usage Bulletin’’ for
editorial staff members at the newspaper. Holley
has done part-time teaching at Art Center College
of Design, California State-Northridge, and
California State-Fullerton and conducted a
seminar at UCLA on the general subject of
newspaper style and usage. He and his wife, Flor-
rie, live in Fullerton. Two of the Holleys’ children
have finished college and the other two are cur-
rently pursuing their undergraduate degrees.

1948

H. Maurice Mitchell was named director by First
American Bancshares Inc. of North Little Rock,
Ark. Mitchell is a partner in the Little Rock law
firm of Mitchell, Williams, Selig & Tucker.

1949

Richard S. Cooley is finishing his 11th year as
mathematics chairman at The Buckley School in
New York City.

Russell D. Huffman retired from Shell in 1979 and
then spent seven years with Cajun Electric Power
Coop Inc., before retiring as vice president-
administration/services in January 1986. He lives
in Baton Rouge.

C. Victor Moore Jr. has been teaching at Stan-
ford University and reorganizing 35 years of notes
since retiring last year. He and his wife, Ann, will
celebrate their 41st anniversary this year in Hawaii
with Marylou and Warren L. Choate, 49. The
Moores live in Moraga, Calif.

W. Roy Rice wrote two cover stories in recent
issues of Stamps, the weekly magazine of philately.

1950

Rev. Edmund D. Campbell Jr. received a doctor
of ministry degree from the Virginia Theological
Seminary in Alexandria, Va., in May. Campbell
is rector of Trinity Episcopal Church in Manassas,
Va.

Allen Garrett (See 1972).

Richard E. Hodges was the recipient of the 1987
‘‘Award of Communications Excellence’’ of the
Georgia chapter, Women in Communications Inc.
Hodges is chairman and CEO of Liller Neal Inc.,
an Atlanta advertising and public relations firm.
Among his numerous professional and civic ac-
tivities, he is a member of the Emory University
board of visitors and a charter member of the
Emory School of Business Administration
management conference board. He is also a trustee
of the Georgia State University Foundation, a
former member of the Atlanta Board of Educa-
tion, and a former member of the board of the
national Public Broadcasting Service (PBS).

Lacey E. Putney is practicing law in Bedford, Va.,
with his brother, Macon C. Putney, ’62L. He has
been a member of the Virginia House of Delegates
since 1962. He lives in Forest, Va.

1951
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Samuel E. Miles Jr., a son,
Sam III, on April 10, 1987, in Chattanooga, Tenn.
H. Harvey Oakley Jr. is chairman of Logan Coun-
ty Bankshares and Logan Bank and Trust. He is
a retired circuit judge and a consultant to Oakley,
Smith & Walker. He lives in Logan, W.Va.

W&L 39

 

 

1952

Charles B. Castner Jr. has been accredited by the
Public Relations Society of America under the pro-
visions of its professional accreditation program.
PRSA’s voluntary accreditation program
recognizes those individuals experienced in the
practice of public relations who have demonstrated
through written and oral examinations their
knowledge and ability. Castner is manager of cor-
porate communications for the Seaboard System
in Louisville.

John 8. Handlan II has been named chairman of
the board of H.L. Yoh. He joined the company
in 1966 and has served as its president for 11 years.
He will continue to be active for the firm, par-
ticularly in the National Technical Services
Association. He lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

1954

Norman L. Dobyns, public affairs vice president
for Northern Telecom Inc., was the author of an
article in the February issue of American Politics
about the impact of government on the global
marketplace. In the article Dobyns urged business
leaders to rely less on lobbyists and get personal-
ly involved in the process of government. He lives
in Arlington, Va.

Bruce R. King has now retired from the Continen-
tal Investment Co. and is in a private consulting
business in Richmond.

1955

William H. Bartsch continues to work in
Washington, D.C., as ILO liaison officer with the
World Bank. He was recently listed in the 1986-87
edition of Who’s Who in the East. He has almost
completed a book on the history of American
fighter pilots in the Philippines campaign in
1941-42. He is also serving as a consultant to the
government of the Marshall Islands to survey
World War II remains on Maloelap Atoll to sup-
port the Japanese government’s application to
have Maloelap declared a historical site under the
National Park Service Program.

E. Ned Simons (See 1975).

Raymond D. Smith Jr. is a managing director for
Bankers Trust Co. in London.

1957

Robert A. Pritchard is a regional sales represen-
tative for MQS Inspection in its Memphis office.
His specialty is thermography.

Lacey E. Putney (See 1950).

1958

Rev. E. James Lewis is the new director of Chris-
tian Social Ministries for the Episcopal Diocese of
North Carolina, which has 40,000 communicants
in more than 120 parishes. He will oversee various
forms of diocesan outreach from working with
migrant farmworkers to producing educational
programs on AIDS.

1959

Owen H. Harper, former executive vice president
of Crocker National Bank in Los Angeles, has
been retained as a consultant to the private bank-
ing divisions of Citicorp (USA) Inc. and Citicorp
Trust.

William B. Sawers Jr. is president of MBA Ser-
vice Corp., which invests equity capital in part-
nerships that are developing residential real estate.
He was remarried in May 1986 to Donna. One of
his sons has graduated from college while another
son is now in college and his daughter will enroll
in the fall.

40 W&L

Charles E. Swope has been elected chairman of
the board of First West Chester Corp. and its
wholly owned subsidiary, The First National Bank
of West Chester, in West Chester, Pa. He has serv-
ed as president of the bank since 1973.

1960

Allen Mead Ferguson is executive vice president
of Craigie Inc., an investment banker in Rich-
mond. The oldest of his four sons, Allen Jr., will
enter Washington and Lee in September.

John R. Pleasant Jr. took on some additional
responsibilities at Southeastern Louisiana Univer-
sity, where he has taught freshman composition
and American literature courses for the past 21
years. This spring he received semester course
releases in order to coach the university’s women’s

softball team.
1961

Ralph G. Fitch Jr. retired as national vice presi-
dent of the American Federation of Government
Employees in May 1986 and was elected vice presi-
dent emeritus of the organization in July. He now
serves as national director of the AFGE Dental

Trust.
1962

Dr. J. Ollie Edmunds Jr. is a professor of or-
thopedic surgery at Tulane Medical School. He
and his wife, Karen, have four children between
the ages of 3 and 15. They live in New Orleans.

Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, Nobel laureate, has been
named an emeritus member of the Texas Medical
Association. The election was for exceptional and
distinguished service to scientific or organized
medicine. Goldstein is chairman of the department
of molecular genetics at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical School in Dallas. He receiv-
ed an honorary degree from Washington and Lee
in 1986.

Thompson W. Goodwin has been promoted to ex-
ecutive vice president of Dominion Bankshares
Corp., a°$7 billion bank holding company head-
quartered in Roanoke with offices in Virginia,
Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Tennessee.

Col. Rufus C. Young Jr. has been selected for the
San Diego County Bar Association’s annual award
as Public Lawyer of the Year. A member of the
Board of Directors of the San Diego-Imperial
Counties Chapter of the American Red Cross, and
of LEAD, San Diego, Inc. (a volunteer sector
leadership development program), he recently was
elected to the board of directors of the University
of San Diego School of Law Alumni Association.
Upon retirement from active duty in the Marine
Corps in June 1987, after 22 years of active ser-
vice, Young will become a partner in the Newport
Beach, Calif., law firm of Fox & Young, specializ-
ing in land use and environmental matters. He and
his wife, Carole, live in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.

1963

C. Richard Brandt has been appointed principal
of the Camp Hill, Pa., Junior-Senior High School.
He has been employed by the Camp Hill School
District for eight years.

Dr. Riley F. Dobbins was honored with the
fellowship of the International College of Cranio-
Mandibular Orthopedics (ICCMO) at its fifth in-
ternational convocation in Honolulu in March. He
is an active member of the American Association
of Functional Orthodontists, the American Pro-
sthodontic Society, the American Dental Associa-
tion, the West Virginia Dental Association, and
the Eastern Panhandle Dental Association. He and

  

his wife, Nancy, and son, Riley, live in Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va.

Thomas P. Rideout, treasurer of the American
Bankers Association, has been nominated to
president-elect of the ABA. He will take office as
president in 1988. He is only the third treasurer
in the ABA’s 112-year history to be nominated
president-elect. He is senior vice president and
director of government relations of First Union
Corp. in Charlotte.

Maurice W. Worth has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president-personnel administration at
Delta Air Lines’ general offices in Atlanta. He had
held a number of managerial positions with Delta
in Dallas, Chicago, Boston, and Atlanta before
this recent promotion.

1964

F.W. (Rick) Boye III is a project manager in Shell
Oil Co.’s head office production computer systems
department. He lives in Houston.

Brice R. Gamber is president of the Minnesota In-
surance Managers Association and was elected to
the board of directors of the Minnesota Workers’
Compensation Insurance Association and Min-
nesota Insurance Information Center. He lives in
Plymouth, Minn.

I. Lionel Hancock III formed the law firm of
Bohannon, Bohannon & Hancock during 1986.
Hancock has two daughters in college. He lives
in Norfolk, Va.

Alvin B. Hutzler II was recently elected vice presi-
dent of the National Association of Tobacco
Distributors. He lives in Richmond.

F.W. (Wink) McKinnon was the subject of a
biographical record in the Marquis Who’s Who
in the East for 1986-87. He lives in Scarsdale, N.Y.

Peter K. Noonan, vice president of Midland Pro-
perties Inc., and Robert B. Patton, ’65, president
of Western Tool and Manufacturing Co., were ap-
pointed to the district board of directors for
Springfield District, Society Bank, in Springfield,
Ohio.

Frederick C. Schaeffer was recently presented the
1986 Flagship Award for the New England Mutual
Life Insurance Co., signifying that he led the
5,000-member field force in sales during that year.
He has been in the life insurance business since
graduation. He is currently a trustee of Memphis
University School and a director of Boatmen’s
Bank of Tennessee. He is past chairman of the
board of The Hutchison School for Girls. He and
his wife, Josephine, have three children and live
in Memphis.

Burton B. Staniar has been named chairman and
chief executive officer of Westinghouse Broad-

ww eee casting Company (Group
W). He was senior executive
vice president of Group W.
He will be responsible for
Group W’s five owned-and-
operated VHF television sta-
tions; 13 radio stations;
Group W Productions, a
television programming
company; and Group W
Satellite Communications, which markets and
distributes programming for the broadcasting and
cable television industries. He joined Group W
Cable in 1980 as senior vice president of marketing
and programming and was named president and
chief operating officer in 1982. He lives in New
York.

 

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. DeVaney, a
daughter, Kavita Merry, on March 12, 1987. Their
home is in Pacific Harbour, Fiji Islands, where
he is managing the semi-submersible drilling rig
the Zapata Arctic. Prior to their move to Fiji, they
had assignments in New Zealand, Australia,
Singapore, and Zhanjiang, People’s Republic of
China.

Peter H. Alford has been named headmaster of
the Unquowa School in Fairfield, Conn. Unquowa
is a pre-kindergarten through eighth grade coed
day school with about 150 students. He and his
family live in Stratford, Conn.

Dr. Mark G. Haeberle is chief of the department
of obstetrics and gynecology at King’s Daughters
Medical Center in Ashland, Ky. He received his
board certification from the American College of
Surgery in 1983. The Haeberles’ third son, Mark
Tye, was born in June 1985.

Earl Magdovitz is president of Imperial Manufac-
turing Co. in Memphis, Tenn. He and his wife,
Barbara, and their five children live in German-
town, Tenn.

Robert B. Patton (See 1964).

Walter H. Ryland of Richmond was elected
1986-87 president of TheatreVirginia, which pro-
duces the drama season for the Virginia Museum
of Fine Arts.

Joseph R. Wilson, owner of PermaTreat Inc., a
pest control firm in Fredericksburg, Va., was
selected Virginia’s Small Businessperson of the
Year for 1987 by the Small Business Administra-
tion. Wilson was also chosen to be among the top
10 finalists for the National Small Businessperson
of the Year Award. He, his wife, and three
daughters live in Fredericksburg.

1966

Charles T. Akre Jr. is director of research and in-
stitutional sales at Johnson, Lemon & Co. in
Washington, D.C.

Todd Crowell has accepted the position of staff
writer on Asiaweek magazine in Hong Kong.
Crowell has specialized in international trade jour-
nalism since founding Pacific Rim Intelligence
Report in 1980. He recently sold the newsletter to
a Washington, D.C., publisher. He lives in Ken-
newick, Wash., and plans to move to Hong Kong
as soon as he receives a resident visa.

1967

Ward W. Briggs Jr., professor of classics at the
University of South Carolina, was recently elected
president of the Classical Association of the Mid-
dle West and South. His book, The Letters of Basil
Lanneau Gildersleeve, will be published in the fall
by the Johns Hopkins University Press.

Charles C. Hart has left his job as assistant district
attorney, due to a shift in the political winds, and
has returned to the private practice of law in his
hometown of Gadsden, Ala.

H. Davis Mayfield III has been named executive
vice president of Interspace Incorporated and
director of the firm’s Washington design division.
In that capacity he will manage the creative and
administrative aspects for all projects within the
division and will serve as senior liaison to top client
management. Mayfield previously was a senior
partner and member of the policy group with
Morris-Aubry Architects in Houston.

Bradford A. Rochester is managing editor of The
Messenger in Madison, N.C. The Messenger is
North Carolina’s second largest weekly newspaper.

 

He is also on the Rockingham County Planning
Board. Rochester married Mary Ellis of Mar-
tinsville, Va., in August 1986.

Walter H. Ryland (See 1965).

1968

Richard T. Clapp, a senior vice president of Wells
Fargo Bank, has been named manager of the New
York regional office of Wells Fargo Corporate Ser-
vices. He is responsible for developing corporate
banking business in the mid-Atlantic, North-
eastern, and New England states.

Sidney B. Rosenburg has been promoted to presi-
dent of Johnstown Mortgage Co., a subsidiary of
Johnstown American Co., which is headquartered
. in Atlanta. He will be
- responsible for day-to-day
operations of the firm, which
specializes in commercial
mortgages in excess of
$1 million. Rosenburg join-
ed the company in 1984, hav-
ing previously served as ex-
ecutive vice president for
Johnstown Mortgage.

H. William Walker’s law firm, Walker, Ellis,
Gragg & Deaktor, merged with the firm of White
& Case in February 1987 in Miami.

1969

Worth T. Blackwell has been elected a managing
director of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
Inc., the investment banking and brokerage firm.
He joined the firm’s Tampa public finance office
in 1986. He is a member of the Florida Bar
Association, the American Bar Association, the
National Association of Bond Lawyers, the Florida
Municipal Bond Council, and the Legislative Com-
mittee Public Securities Association. He and his
family live in St. Petersburg, Fla.

Dr. H. Laurent Boetsch, his wife, Elizabeth, and
their daughters, Alden and Lauren, will spend a
sabbatical year in England and Spain during the
1987-88 academic year. Boetsch, associate pro-
fessor of romance languages at Washington and
Lee, will be a visiting exchange fellow at Univer-
sity College, Oxford, where he will be researching
a book on the Spanish literary generation of 1927.
After Oxford, he will continue his research in
Madrid.

John L. Johnson of Houston is chairman and chief
executive officer of Teleprofits of Texas Inc., a
company engaged in owning and operating private
pay telephones.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Alan C. Oakes, a son, Alan
C. Jr., on March 18, 1987. He joins four sisters.
The family lives in Edison, N.J.

W. Foster Gaillard represented Washington and
Lee at the March 27, 1987, inauguration of Col-
lege of Charleston President Harry M. Lightsey Jr.

Jeffrey B. Grossman has been promoted to direc-
tor of business planning for The House of
Seagram, the No. 1 distiller/importer in the United
States. He lives in Stamford, Conn.

1971
MARRIAGE: Dr. Lawrence G. Miller III and

Denise Ann Dawson on Nov. 1, 1986. They live
in Richmond.

Rev. John D. Copenhaver Jr. has been appointed
chaplain and assistant professor of religion at
Shenandoah College and Conservatory in Win-
chester, Va. This past spring he traveled for two

weeks in Nicaragua with Witness for Peace. Dur-
ing Copenhaver’s time in Nicaragua, Benjamin
Linder was killed by the contras, and Copenhaver
attended a memorial mass for Linder at Santa
Maria de Los Angeles Catholic Church in
Managua.

Stephen H. Kerkam is currently developing train-
ing courses for the marketing forces at Bell Atlan-
tic, as well as specialized technical training to be
delivered to selected clients. He lives in
Westminster, Md.

Dr. Barry W. Mitchell is completing his residen-
cy in plastic and reconstructive surgery at the
University of California-Davis Medical Center. He
recently presented a research paper on men-
ingomyelocele repair in Tucson, Ariz., and
Springfield, Ill. His home is in Sacramento, Calif.

Claude M. Walker Jr. is vice president and general
manager of the Standard Warehouse Co. in Col-
umbia, S.C., where Walker, his wife, Joann, and
daughters, Dorothy Ehrlich, 1, and Mary Martin,
6, live.

H. William Walker (See 1968).

Calvert Whitehurst is a legislative/public affairs
specialist in the Washington office of Textron Inc.
He lives in Arlington and participates in activities
of the Republican Party in northern Virginia.

1972

Dr. Martin D. Claiborne III is in private practice
in dermatology in New Orleans. He and his wife,
Barbara, have two sons, Cole, 6, and Jeffrey, 3.

Dr. William Allan Garrett Jr. has received the
M.D. degree from the Medical University of South
Carolina and will enter his surgery residency at the
West Virginia University Medical Center in
Morgantown. Garrett was credited with honors
work in vascular surgery and transplant surgery.
His paper, ‘‘Surgical Correction of the Transposi-
tion of the Great Arteries: A Brief History,’’ won
first prize in the Waring Library Society’s history
of the health sciences essay contest, a competition
open to graduate and professional students in
South Carolina. Garrett was an English major at
W&L and earned his master’s degree in English
plus a B.S. in biology from East Tennessee State
University. His father, Allan Garrett, is a 1950
graduate of the W&L law school and a practicing
attorney in Danville, Va.

Richard R. Orsinger is living in San Antonio,
Texas, with his wife, Karen, and son, Stephen, 6.
Orsinger practices law and was listed in the 1987
edition of The Best Lawyers in America in the area
of family law.

James M. Stege spent four months last year in Bar-
bados restoring one of the oldest synagogues in
the hemisphere. He is an architect with Flad &
Associates in Gainesville, Fla.

1973

MARRIAGE: Michael C. Schaeffer and Lisa
Lewis on May 16, 1987, in Fairmont, N.C. He is
soccer coach at Pembroke State University where
Lisa works as an admissions counselor. They live
in Fairmont.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Timothy F. Haley, by
adoption, a son, Timothy Sean, on April 7, 1987.
Haley is an attorney in Chicago. The family lives
in Winnetka, III.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Marshall P. Washburn, a
son, Marshall P. Jr., on April 27, 1987. The family
lives in Spartanburg, S.C.

Donald D. Eavenson Jr. has been promoted to
director of marketing for McNeil Specialty Pro-

W&L 41

 

 

ducts Co., a division of Johnson & Johnson, and
has been named a member of its management
board. In this position, Eavenson will direct the
marketing program for sucralose, a new high-
intensity sweetener made from sugar that is cur-
rently awaiting FDA approval. Eavenson joined
Johnson & Johnson in 1980 after receiving his
MBA from the University of Pennsylvania’s Whar-
ton School.

Charles D. Perry Jr. is vice president for Interstate
Securities Corp. He was named director of
Highland Associates this year and became direc-
tor of Investment Management Consulting Group
last year. The Perrys have a daughter, Katherine
Elizabeth, born in February 1986, and live in
Birmingham.

Richard Romanelli is a computer engineer for
Ballistic Research Laboratory at Aberdeen Prov-
ing Grounds, Md. He and his wife, Kathy, have
three daughters, Karen, 12; Anne, 9; and Lisa, 6.
They live in Havre de Grace, Md.

Gregory S. Thompson is currently president of
Thompson Insurance Enterprises Inc. and lives in
Atlanta.

Benjamin B. West’s Jacksonville, Fla., advertis-
ing agency, West & Company, won the 27th an-
nual International Broadcasting Awards
Sweepstakes Prize for producing the world’s best
television commercial. The winning commercial,
‘*Department Store Insurance,’’ was for Jackson-
ville’s Independent Insurance Group. It also won
first place for humor.

1974
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Kevin J. Coppersmith, a
daughter, Erin Kathleen, on May 5, 1987. She
joins two brothers, Kevin and Ryan. The family
lives in Walnut Creek, Calif.

C. Russell Fletcher was recently named senior vice
president-reinsurance of Liberty National Fire In-
surance Co., a property/casualty insurance sub-
sidiary of Torchmark Corp., which is head-
quartered in Birmingham.

Mark W. Preston, an Atlanta real estate attorney
with Weiner, Dwyer, Yancey & Mackin, and his
brother Clayton W. Preston, ’77, an architect with
Robert Denson and Associates, have founded the
real estate investment and development firm of
Wesley Arch Inc. with headquarters in Atlanta.

William P. Wallace Jr. has become a partner in
the Roanoke law firm of Johnson, Ayers &

Matthews.
1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James V. Baird, a son,

James Vernon Jr., on May 10, 1987. The family
lives in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Scott Nelson, a son,
Jonathan Grey, on Jan. 11, 1987. He joins two
brothers, Isaac, 8, and Benjamin, 3. Nelson is a
senior project geologist with Geological Consulting
Services in Bluefield, Va. The family is enjoying
its self-designed passive solar home in the coun-
tryside near Bluefield and still finds time to pur-
sue outdoor activities such as camping, canoeing,
fishing, gardening, and old-time music festivals.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Bowman Williams Jr.,
a son, James Bowman III, on Dec. 29, 1985, in
Dallas. He joins two brothers, Campbell, 8, and
Alan, 5.

T. Barry Davis has been named national sales
trainer for 3M/Media Networks. Davis won the
London Award for sales in excess of $1.5 million
for 1986.

42 W&L

 

 

 

John R. Embree has moved from New Orleans
back to his home in Chicago, where he works for
Wilson Sporting Goods as director of racquet
sports promotion.

Turner J. McGehee is teaching art history and
studio art at Hastings College in Hastings, Neb.
He has recently been on leave of absence to pur-
sue research in Lagos, Nigeria, under a Rotary In-
ternational Fellowship.

Benjamin M. Sherman and E. Ned Simons III, ’55,
were recognized in service ceremonies at the
University of Delaware in May. Sherman,
Delaware’s sports information director, was cited
for 10 years of service to the university. Simons,
a professional in the University of Delaware
counseling program, was recognized for 20 years
of service.

Robert Q>Wyckoff Jr. has accepted a position as
a senior vice president of J & W Seligman & Co.,
a Wall Street investment advisory firm founded
in 1864. He and his wife, Susan, live in Greenwich,
Conn.

MARRIAGE: David Walter Denny and Karen
Ann Wood on May 30, 1987, in Shepperton, Mid-
dlesex, England. The couple will live in Raleigh,
N.C.

MARRIAGE: Cary E. Patrick and Helen Neofitou
on July 19, 1986. Classmates L. Lang Craighill,
William W. Pifer, and Dick B. Phillips, and
Robert B. Patton, ’65, were in the wedding. The
couple lives in Newport News, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William L. Cooper III, a
daughter, Ainsley Kera, on Oct. 28, 1986. She joins
a brother, Will, 4. The family lives in Rocky
Mount, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James F. McMenamin, a
son, Thomas Joseph, on Dec. 29, 1986. Tom joins
a brother, Daniel Vincent, 3. The family lives in
Towson, Md., where McMenamin is the manager
of corporate literature for Thompson CGR.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Montague, a
daughter, Martha Lee, on March 14, 1987. She
joins two brothers, John and Will. The Montagues
live in Charlottesville.

R. Stewart Barroll is a partner in the Chestertown,
Md., law firm of Hoon & Barroll. He is the

 

secretary of the Kent County Ducks Unlimited
Committee and president of the Chester River
Rowing Club. He competed in the Head of the
Charles Regatta in Boston last October in a
lightweight men’s four. His wife, Kimberly, and
daughter, Virginia Spencer, 1, live in Chestertown.

Robert M. Bender of Haddonfield, N.J., is
finishing a residency in internal medicine and will
soon begin a fellowship in critical care medicine
at Cooper Hospital in Camden, N.J.

David R. Braun has been promoted to vice presi-
dent of agency operations for the Travelers in the
Minneapolis office.

Samuel R. Brown II is now with Days, Summs,
Epps & Brown. He and his wife, Betsy, are the
parents of a son, Samuel R. Brown III, and live
in Virginia Beach.

Rodney D. Kibler is in private psychology prac-
tice near Stanardsville, Va., where he lives with
his wife, Jeanne, and their three sons.

David T. Moore and his wife, Elizabeth Jane, are
living in West Germany where he is now building
Appalachian dulcimers and teaching others to play
the instrument.

Alan W. Pettigrew was recently promoted to
regional sales manager of Allen-Morrison Inc. in
Lynchburg, Va. He has served as treasurer of the
Lynchburg Historical Foundation and on the
board of directors of Oakwood Country Club.

J. Kimble Ratliff Jr. is vice president of the in-
come property department of Collateral Mortgage,
Ltd., a regional mortgage banking firm in Birm-
ingham. He has two sons, Kimble III, 2, and
Thornton, six months.

Dr. Willard C. (Bill) Thompson III completed a
fellowship in cardiology in June 1986 and moved
to Salisbury, N.C., to begin practice of cardiology
and internal medicine. He and his wife, Laura,
have two daughters, Hannah and Anne Claire.

David S. Walker is now working for National Syn-
dications as New York sales manager selling a new
feature in Parade magazine called ‘‘The Sunday
Shopper.”’

1977

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce R. Thomas, a son,
B. Rustin Jr., on Jan. 15, 1987, in High Point,
N.C.

 

After five years as assistant county attorney for
Prince William County, Va., James E. Barnett Jr.
has begun association with the private firm of
Walsh, Colucci, Stackhouse, Emrich & Lubely at
its office in Woodbridge, Va.

Dr. John T. Cheairs is an anesthesiologist at Bap-
tist Medical Center in Little Rock, Ark. He and
his wife, India Cross Cheairs, have a son, John
T. II, 1.

Bradley J. Fretz is a vice president at E. F. Hut-
ton in Wilmington, Del., where he is director of
the investment management evaluation service in
the consulting division. He and his wife, Donna,
live in Malvern, Pa.

Theodore D. Grosser has joined the firm of Vorys,
Sater, Seymour and Pease in its Cincinnati office.

James G. Houston was
recently promoted to vice
president, real estate services
for Boulevard Bank in
Chicago. He _ joined
Boulevard in 1985 as an
assistant vice president, com-
mercial lending. He has also
served as the real estate ser-
vices market manager.

Roger (Tad) Leithead is a marketing principal with
Trammell Crow Co. and leases office buildings at
Atlanta Galleria. He and Susan Nancy Jones were
married in July 1986 and live in Atlanta.

William G. Oglesby is a reporter for WYFF-TV
in Greenville, S.C., and recently won a first place
award for North and South Carolina from United
Press International for an investigative/documen-
tary series about the juvenile corrections crisis in
South Carolina. He and his wife, Marcia, have a
daughter, Jessica, 3.

Clayton W. Preston (See 1974).

Dr. James U. Scott is in the private practice of
pediatrics in Coldwater, Mich.

William P. Wallace Jr. (See 1974).

1978
MARRIAGE: James N. Lynn and Deborah

Fusting on June 7, 1986. The couple lives in
Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Brian P. Carroll, a son,
Brendan Patrick, on April 18, 1987. The family
lives in Morristown, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edwin D. Johnson III, a
daughter, Stephanie Ann, on April 14, 1987.
Johnson received his MBA from Florida Interna-
tional University in April 1986 and is currently
Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Operations, Att-
woods, Inc. The family lives in Miramar, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. John May, a son,
Spenser Reid, on May 29, 1987. They live in Paoli,
Pa., where May is an associate with the law firm
of Pepper, Hamilton, and Scheetz.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Sipple IV, a
son, Charles Henry V (Chip), on Oct. 31, 1986,
in Savannah, Ga. He joins a sister, Sarah, 3.
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. George M. (Scooter) Smith,
a son, Weston Edward, on May 20, 1986. They
live in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael M. M. Wallis, a
daughter, Megan Elizabeth, on March 21, 1987.
The family lives in Cocoa Beach, Fla.

Yoko Mizuno Benda, an exchange student from
Rikkyo University during 1978-79 and wife of
Walter Benda, is coordinator for ‘‘Tsuxma,”’ a

  

Noh Hayashi Music and Dance Troupe from
Japan. The troupe, comprising six professional
Noh performers who present selections of Noh
Theatre dating back to the 14th century, made a
tour of the United States in April and May. The
tour included a stop in Lexington for performances
at W&L and the Lime Kiln Theatre.

David G. Carpenter has moved to Atlanta to open
a personnel recruiting firm, American Resource
Group Inc. The firm specializes in sales, account-
ing, and administrative recruiting.

Ray S. Coffey Jr. is director of research and
development for Environmental Options, a
hazardous waste recycling firm in Roanoke.

George W. Faison Jr. owns his own food distribu-
tion and processing company that employs 15 and
sells from Philadelphia to Connecticut. He and his
wife, Carol, live in Roselle, N.J.

William O. Frear graduated from the M.B.A. pro-
gram at Penn State University in January 1987 and
is an assistant manager in the loss prevention
department of Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. in
Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. He and his wife, Michele, and
their daughter, Amy, 1, live in King of Prussia, Pa.

Theodore W. Hissey III is working in Atlanta as
division marketing manager for Pepsi USA
southern division. He has two sons, Teddy, 3, and
Tyler, 1.

Douglas E. Johnston Jr. moved from Houston to
San Antonio in March 1986 to help form a ‘‘de
novo’’ bank—The Bank of San Antonio/Medical
Center. He is serving as president of the bank.

Lee W. Muse Jr. has been promoted to western
regional sales manager for Metropolitan Circuits
Inc. He and his wife, Sandy, and son, Lee, live
in Mission Viejo, Calif.

Charles H. Noble III is vice president of Noble,
Glen & Associates Inc. in San Antonio, Texas. His
daughter, Margaret McNeel, is 1 year old.

Christopher P. Reid is a manufacturer’s represen-
tative with White Brothers in northern Indiana and
Ohio. He lives in Cleveland.

R. Plater Robinson spent two weeks in Gernika,
Spain, last spring to produce a verbal essay on the
Basque people, the destruction of Gernika by the
Germans flying for Franco during the Spanish
Civil War, and ETA, the Basque terrorist
organization. The essay was broadcast by Chris-
tian Science Monitor Radio on the 50th anniver-
sary of Gernika’s destruction on April 26, 1987.
Robinson gave a slide presentation on the subject
at W&L in May.

David T. Trice has completed his second year of
a cardiology fellowship at Emory University.

Steven C. Yeakel, his wife, Beth, and 18-month-
old daughter Katherine are doing just fine in
Helena, Mont. Classmate Richard W. Stewart
recently visited the Yeakels in Montana.

1979
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. Stephen Jones, a son,
Joshua Ryan, on March 22, 1987. Jones was
recently promoted and transferred from Muncy,
Pa., to Baltimore, where he is division employee
relations manager for the Washington, D.C., sales
division of Frito-Lay Inc.

Daniel G. Beyer has been admitted as a partner
in the law firm Kerr, Russell and Weber in Detroit.

M. Gray Coleman, along with a team of colleagues
from the New York law firm of Kay Collyer &
Boose, recently represented J.D. Salinger in his
successful appeal of a lawsuit to halt the publica-

tion of an unauthorized biography of Salinger by
Random House, which used several of the famous
author’s unpublished letters in violation of
copyright law. The case, an extension of principles
at stake in the ‘‘Ford memoirs’’ case, may be ac-
cepted by the Supreme Court for review next fall.
Coleman, who specializes in entertainment and
publishing matters, lives in Manhattan and is vice
president of the New York Alumni Chapter.

Lt. Charles M. Flowers recently reported for du-
ty with Naval Air Reserve, Naval Air Station,
Jacksonville, Fla. He joined the Navy Reserves in
April 1987.

Jim H. Guynn of Roanoke has been elected by the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association to a two-
year term as the alumni representative to the
University’s athletic committee.

David R. Scott is currently a chief resident in
obstetrics and gynecology at the University of
California in San Diego.

James A. Tommins has been
promoted to national sales
manager-Esprit with West-
Point Pepperell’s Consumer
Products Division. He will
continue to be located at of-
fices in New York City,
where he had been a Martex
sales representative with
CPD since August 1984.

1980

MARRIAGE: Guy T. Steuart and Cynthia K.
Johnson of Harrisburg, Neb., on Oct. 25, 1986.
Stewart is employed by Walker & Dunlop Inc., a
mortgage banking and commercial real estate firm
doing business in the mid-Atlantic markets. The
couple lives in Bethesda, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Deighan, a son,
Justin, on Nov. 10, 1986. Deighan works at
Guaranty Savings and Loan in Charlottesville,
Va., where he is head of data processing and sav-
ings operations.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William E. Pritchard III,
a daughter, Lauren Marie, on Feb. 12, 1987, in
Houston.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Charles V. Terry, a son,
Walker, on Oct. 29, 1986. Terry is head of
pediatrics for the McGuire Clinic in Richmond.

 

David A. Bryant is district manager in Fink
Restaurants, a Roy Rogers franchise currently
operating four restaurants in the Fredericksburg,
Va., area. 4

Theodore (Biff) Martin Jr. recruits high-level cor-
porate executives for Nordeman Grimm Inc. in
Chicago. He is in his third year of triathlon com-
petition and will compete in this year’s Chicago
Triathlon against classmates and fraternity
brothers Robert C. Campbell, Hamilton C. Davis
III, and Howard A. (Drew) Pillsbury.

Michael D. McKay is employed by First American
National Bank as vice president and manager of
energy lending in Nashville, Tenn.

Frederick T. Moore is a senior account executive
with Bloom Advertising in Dallas.

Christopher W. Ware has just moved to Orlan-
do, Fla., after purchasing a division of his fami-
ly’s air conditioning and refrigeration wholesale
supply business.

Harry Wright IV resigned from the staff of Inter-
Varsity Christian Fellowship in October 1986 and

W&L 43

 

 

will enroll at Emory University School of Law in
August.

1981

MARRIAGE: J. Bruce Moore and Beth Hum-
phreys in Memphis, Tenn., on Oct. 25, 1986.
Groomsmen included classmates Marshall A.
Clark, Gerrald A. Giblin Jr., C. Penn Owen III,
and Warren W. (Woody) Woodring along with J.
Fraser Humphreys, ’79, and Murry G. McClin-
tock, ’80.

MARRIAGE: Joel E. Segall and Robynn Golob
on Aug. 31, 1986, in Baltimore, where they live.
Segall is an associate with the law firm of Semmes,
Bowen & Semmes.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Winston W. Burks III, a
daughter, Anna Elizabeth, on Feb. 3, 1987. The
family lives in Haddon Heights, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. Parke Ellis, a daughter,
Elizabeth Palmer, on Dec. 27, 1986. The family
lives in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. (Todd) Hyde
Jr., a son, Robert W. III, on Feb. 18, 1987, in
Berkeley Heights, N.J.

J. Scott Cardozo graduated from the University
of Virginia JD/MBA program in May 1986. He
traveled around the world for four months and
is now working in corporate bond sales for Morgan
Stanley in New York City.

Capt. John J. Fox III is the aviation safety officer
for Fort Benning, Ga.

R. Christopher Gammon has been elected vice
president in the international bank division in Lon-
don, England, for Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.

Neal S. Johnson has joined the law firm of Natkin,
Heslep & Natkin in Lexington. He has two
children, Scott, 3 and Jennifer, 1.

Craig Kennelly is an international block trader for
S. G. Warburg & Co., a London-based merchant
bank. He lives in Garden City, N.Y.

Philip D. Marella Jr. has joined Worldvision
Enterprises Inc. in New York as director of
business affairs. He was previously manager of
financial planning for the ABC Television Net-
work. He graduated from Fordham University
School of Law in May 1987.

Gene A. Marsh received the 1986-87 Burlington
Northern Foundation Faculty Achievement Award
for Excellence in Teaching at the University of
Alabama. The Burlington Northern Foundation
provides one award for teaching and one award
for research at the university each year. Marsh is
an associate professor at the university’s College
of Commerce and Business Administration.

Michael J. Perry has joined Parade magazine as
a sales representative in its New York head-
quarters. He was previously an account executive
at DDB Needham Worldwide/New York adver-
tising agency.

Alexis V. Richards of Lynchburg, Va., has join-
ed Mid-State Insurance as partner and executive
vice president. He specializes in manufacturing,
large wholesale and retail multi-location proper-
ty, and casualty insurance.

John K. Saunders has left the firm of Swift, Cur-
rie, McGhee & Hiers and is pursuing a litigation
practice with the Atlanta law firm of Gambrell,
Clarke, Anderson & Stolz.

David O. Williamson is a partner in the Roanoke
law firm of Gardner, Mass, and Rochovich. He
and Gina Lynn Dillon were married in March
1986.

44 W&L

1982

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Scott B. Puryear, a son,
George O. (Clay), in October 1986 in Madison,
Va. He joins a sister, Maggie.

Clifford T. Gordon is working in Dallas for Camp-
bell Taggart in the corporate planning department.

Capt. James D. Kirby of the U.S. Army was a par-
ticipant in ‘‘Team Spirit ’87,’’ an exercise spon-
sored by the Republic of Korea/United States
Combined Forces Command which was held in
South Korea earlier this year.

John E. Monroe of Kentwood, Va., received the
M.B.A. degree from the Darden School at the
University of Virginia and will join Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. in Atlanta as an associate.

Christopher L. Muller has accepted a position with
Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. in New York.
He received an M.B.A. degree from the Darden
School at the University of Virginia in May.

William C. Nicholson is president of Flagship
Cleaner, a dry cleaner with headquarters in
Rockville, Md., and a new store to open in
Washington, D.C. Nicholson is a member of the
Oregon and Washington, D.C., bars. He lives in
Gaithersburg, Md.

Patricia E. Sinskey and her father, Dr. Robert M.
Sinskey, ’45, have started construction of a winery
on the Silverado Trail in Napa, Calif. Their first
wines are scheduled to be released in the spring
of 1988.

James D. Stanton Jr. is national sales manager for
the Registry Hotel Corp. He lives in Scottsdale,
Ariz., and works at the Registry Resort-Scottsdale.

1983

MARRIAGE: Scott S. Bond and Patty Pantzikas
on Sept. 19, 1986. Bond met his wife, who is
Australian, while he was on a Rotary scholarship
at the University of Sydney in 1984. He is currently
in sales with Boise-Cascade in Manhattan. The
couple lives in Westfield, N.J.

MARRIAGE: Rodney E. Taylor and Anne Con-
nolly on April 23, 1987, in Chesapeake, Va. E.
Thompson Brockman, ’82, R. (Jay) Irons, ’82, S.
Harbar Stephens III, ’82, Matthew G. Thompson,
°84, and J. Berry Trimble, ’84, were in the wed-
ding party. The couple lives in Amherst, Va.

Steven M. Anthony, vice president for legal af-
fairs of Anthony Timberlands Inc., has been
elected to the board of directors of Bank of
Bearden in Bearden, Ark. Anthony is a member
of the Arkansas Bar Association, the American
Bar Association, the Arkansas Forestry Associa-
tion, and the Southern Forest Products
Association.

James H. Campbell moved from Washington,
D.C., to work for the mortgage division of The
Bank of New York in Westchester County. He is
an account executive for Dollar Dry Dock Savings
Bank mortgage division based in White Plains,
N.Y. He lives in Tarrytown, N.Y.

William M. France Jr. is selling radio advertising
as an account executive for Warm 98 in Cincinnati.

Stephen P. Geary graduated from L.S.U. Medical
School and will be doing a residency in New
Orleans. After two years of preliminary surgery
training at Alton Ochsner Medical Institutions, he
will do four years of otolaryngology/head and
neck surgery training in L.S.U.’s program. He was
a participant in the Biomedical Ethics Seminar at
W&L this past spring.

Thomas G. Gruenert has become an associate of
the law firm Porter & Clements in Houston.

David M. Hagigh graduated in May 1986 from
George Washington University with a master’s
degree in security policy studies. He is currently
working for the Army Intelligence Agency as an
analyst in the field of counterintelligence. He is
still living in the Washington, D.C., area.

Charles L. King is completing his third year of law
school at George Mason University and interning
in the commonwealth’s attorney’s office in Fair-
fax County.

J. Dwight LeBlanc III graduated from the Tulane
law school and is now practicing with the New
Orleans firm of Lemle, Kelleher.

Richard W. Ordway is working on his M.B.A. in
aviation at Embry-Riddle in Prescott, Ariz. He and
his wife, Debra Elaine, have a four-month-old
daughter, Anna Robinson.

William M. Peery is completing his master’s degree
in hydrogeology at the University of Montana in
Missoula. _

Robert R. Smith is working for the Peregrine
White Co. of New York in Washington, D.C., as
a commercial real estate broker.

Andrew M. Taylor received his M.B.A. from the
University of Virginia’s Darden School and is
working in Atlanta for Taylor & Mathis, real estate
development.

John H. (Jay) Windsor III is managing more than
400,000 square feet of office space in two com-
plexes in Dallas and Las Colinas, Texas, for the
Fults Management Co. He is working on his cer-
tified property manager designation and does crisis
counseling for Contact-Dallas.

1984

MARRIAGE: James C. Hudson and Mary
Elizabeth Hensel on May 30, 1987, in Washington,
D.C.

MARRIAGE: Capt. Amy Minkinow and Capt.
Joseph T. Frisk on June 19, 1987. The couple will
live in Augusta, Ga., where she is trial defense
counsel at Fort Gordon and he is the medical
claims judge advocate at Eisenhower Medical
Center.

Kenneth J. Andsager passed the uniform certified
public examination in November 1986. He lives
in East Greenwich, R.I.

Lance C. Cawley is a commercial loan officer with
First National Bank of Maryland. He specializes
in broadcast television and radio and cable televi-
sion lending.

James M. (Jay) Faulkner III is in real estate finance
for the Massey Co. in Dallas.

Theodore G. Fletcher teaches English, history, and
Latin at the Woodhall School in Bethlehem, Conn.

Jeffrey S. Gee is in his second year of a doctoral
program in geology at the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography in San Diego, Calif.

R. Allen Haight will leave Peat Marwick’s merger
and acquisition department to enter business
school at the University of Virginia in September.

Richard B. Jones Jr. is executive officer of a long-
range surveillance company in West Germany.

Steven E. Lewis has been elected assistant vice
president in the bond and money market group
of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

1st Lt. Edward J. O’Brien has been decorated with
the Army Achievement Medal in West Germany.
The medal is awarded for meritorious service, acts
of courage, or other accomplishments. O’Brien is

 

 

a company commander with the 54th Engineer
Battalion.

Charles M. Plumly II will be entering the MBA
program at the University of North Carolina in
Chapel Hill this fall.

William R. (Reggie) Rampone begins work on his
Ph.D. in English literature at the University of
Rhode Island in September.

John P. Sutton III is a student at the Medical
University of South Carolina in Charleston.

Matthew G. Thompson will enter the MBA pro-
gram at the University of Virginia this fall.

1985

Alexander P. (Sandy) Brown IV continues to work
in the international sales department for ProServ
TV in Washington, D.C. His international travel-
ing for the agency has taken him to many coun-
tries around the world.

Ensign Paul A. Casey graduated from the Naval
Supply Officers School in Athens, Ga., and is
assigned as supply officer of the USS Nashville.
He is presently on a six-month tour of the
Mediterranean.

Michael J. Cregan is a bond salesman for Paine
Webber Inc. in New York City.

Charles M. Davidson is currently enrolled in the
M.B.A. program at the Graduate School of
Business at the University of Texas at Austin.

Gary S. Duncan is an assistant account executive
in the advertising division of the Earle Palmer
Brown Cos. in Bethesda, Md.

Harry W. Golliday has been elected banking of-
ficer in the national banking division for Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Chicago.

Mark D. Knobloch is living in Melbourne,
Australia, for the year and plays lacrosse for the
Surrey Park club team.

Thomas N. McKinstry has been elected banking
officer in the international banking division for
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

John K. Saunders (See 1981).

C. Taber Smith III is in international sales on the
government bond desk at Bankers Trust Co. in
New York.

John W. Zabriskie has recently completed the

Citibank management training program and is a
marketing officer for the Aircraft Leasing Group.

He lives in New York City with classmate Rusty

Hartley.
1986

MARRIAGE: Courtney R. (Corky) Mauzy III and
Kim White on May 30, 1987, in Raleigh, N.C. His
father, Courtney R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, was the best
man and classmates Edwin L. Barnes, J. Caulley
Deringer, and J. Dain Dulaney were groomsmen.
Mauzy works for Carolina Components in
Greensboro, N.C.

Edwin L. (Harry) Barnes is working for Dean Wit-
ter Reynolds in Atlanta.

Joseph C. Campbell Jr. is attending medical school
at the University of Virginia and will complete Of-
ficers Candidate School for the U.S. Navy Medical
Program during the summer of 1987.

William M. Cooper IV has started his own law
practice in Lexington and continues to own Flip
Side Records.

G. T. Corrigan is living in Melbourne, Australia,
and plays lacrosse for the Chadstone Lacrosse
Club.

Edward M. (Ned) George III has finished his first
year of law school at West Virginia University.

John F. Henschel is working for E.F. Hutton in
New York City. He works in the ERISA services
and tax strategy department. In his free time, he
plays in a softball league with the Manhattan
Snappers.

W. Fletcher McClintock is an ERISA consultant
for the Total Resource Program at Furman, Selz,
Mager, Dietz & Birney in New York City. He lives
in Franklin Park, N.J.

Peter M. Papasavas will be studying for an LL.M.
degree at the London School of Economics and
Political Science.

Karen Puhala Power is associated with the Arl-
ington, Va., law firm of Talbert, Smith & Fitz-
gerald. She married John A. Power in June 1986.

1987
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David T. Popwell, a

daughter, Constance Condon, on June 9, 1987,
in Memphis, Tenn.

 

Have some news? Information. for the Class
Notes section should be sent to Class Notes,
the Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1920

Samuel Edward Knighton died Jan. 27, 1987.

1921

Col. William James Rushton, former chief ex-
ecutive of Protective Life Insurance Co. in Birm-
ingham, died April 28, 1987. He first went to work
for the Birmingham Ice and Cold Storage Co.,
which his grandfather founded after moving to
Birmingham in 1883. Rushton became president
of the company before leaving in 1937 to become
president of Protective Life. He was president for
40 years before he became chairman of the board.
By the time he retired in 1970 the company had
grown twentyfold. Rushton took a leave of
absence from W&L in 1917 to join the U.S. Ar-
my infantry. At the end of World War I, he was
discharged as a sergeant. He returned to active du-
ty in 1940 and helped establish the Selective Ser-
vice System. Rushton became the youngest full col-
onel in the U.S. Army Ordnance when he return-
ed to Birmingham from Washington, D.C., in
1942. He was awarded The Legion of Merit and
several citations from the Chief Ordnance and
Secretary of the Army for his World War II ser-
vice. After his discharge in 1944, he was designated
the civilian chief of the Birmingham District. At
the age of 27, Rushton became the youngest direc-
tor in the history of the First National Bank, which
became AmSouth Bank. He was also a board
member of Alabama Power Co., Gulf Mobile and
Ohio Railroad, Illinois Central Gulf Railroad, and
Moore-Handley Inc. He was the youngest person
to be president of the National Association of Ice
Industries and the American Warehouseman’s
Association. He was director of the Life Insurance
Association of America, the Health Insurance
Association of America, and the Institute of Life
Insurance and was Alabama vice president of the
American Life Convention in 1953. Rushton was
a trustee of Agnes Scott College for 10 years and
was 1954 chairman of the Alabama selection com-
mittee for the Rhodes Scholarships. He also serv-
ed as a trustee for the Children’s Hospital, direc-
tor of the Birmingham Museum of Art, and chair-
man of the board of trustees of the Southern
Research Institute and the First Presbyterian
Church of Birmingham. He was also a member
of the Rotary Club, the Mountain Brook Club,
the Birmingham Country Club, the Downtown
Club, The Club, the Relay House and Redstone.
He received honorary degrees from Southwestern
University in Memphis, Tenn., the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, Samford University, and
Birmingham-Southern College. In 1975, he was
selected to the Alabama State Academy of Honor.

1924

Edward Almer Ames Jr., an attorney and former
Virginia state senator, died May 19, 1987. He was
commonwealth’s attorney for Accomack Coun-
ty, Va., from 1943 to 1955. He served in the state
senate from 1955 to 1967. Ames was a former
president of the First National Bank in Onancock,
Va., and a former member of the board of direc-
tors of First Virginia Banks Inc. He practiced law
in Accomack for 62 years. Until his death he work-
ed as a general partner in his law firm of Ames
& Ames with his son, Edward A. Ames III, ’64.
He was the past president of the Accomack County

W&L 45

 

Bar Association. He held club memberships in the
Downtown Club in Richmond and the Eastern
Shore Yacht and Country Club and was past presi-
dent of the Rotary Club. He was chairman of the
Accomack County Democratic Committee, vice
chairman of the Virginia Code Commission, and
a member of the Democratic State Central Com-
mittee of Virginia. He was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity, and the
Order of the Coif.
1925

Edward Almer Ames Jr. (See 1924).

1926

William Hill Brown Jr., an attorney from
Manassas, Va., died April 7, 1987. After
graduating from W&L’s law school, where he was
president of his class, he opened his own law prac-
tice in Manassas in 1933. He was trial justice of
Prince William County from 1934 to 1938 and
commonwealth’s attorney for the next six years.
Brown was also a municipal judge, local counsel
for the Southern Railway and the Chesapeake &
Ohio Railroad, and town attorney for Manassas.
He was also general manager of the Manassas
lumber company Brown and Hoof Inc., president
of the Warrenton Building Materials Co. Inc., and
secretary-treasurer of the Prince William
Publishing Co. He was a senior board member of
First Virginia Bank and director of the National
Bank of Manassas. He was past president of the
Prince William County Bar Association, charter
president of the Manassas Host Lions Club, direc-
tor of the Prince William County Library, and a
member of the Kiwanis Club and the Sons of the
Revolution. Brown was also a vestryman and
senior warden of Trinity Episcopal Church in
Manassas and a member of the American and
Virginia Bar Associations.

William Burke Williamson, a retired attorney from
Chicago, died Feb. 20, 1987. A member of Phi
Beta Kappa at W&L, Williamson continued his
education at Northwestern Law School, graduating
in 1930. He joined the law firm of Adams,
Williamson & Turney the same year and remain-
ed with the firm until his retirement. He served
with the infantry for four years during World War
II. He remained in the Army Reserves and retired
as a lieutenant commander in 1962. In addition
to his law practice, he was director of the R.G.
Lydy Parking Co. and president of the Hull House
Association board of trustees. He was a member
of the Chicago Club, Casino Club (Chicago),
Onwentsia Country Club, Biltmore Forest (N.C.)
Country Club, Law Club of Chicago, and Legal
Club of Chicago. He was a member of the board
of governors for the Chicago Bar Association for
two years. In 1972 he moved to Asheville, N.C.,
where he was a member of the state bar but con-
sidered himself semi-retired.

1927

Russel George Miller of Williamsport, Md.,
former accountant with Kauffman Manufactur-
ing and Supply Co., died Nov. 11, 1986.

Emerson Thompson Sanders of Burlington, N.C.,
died April 20, 1987. After leaving W&L, Sanders
attended law school at Duke University and
graduated in 1930. He was in general practice in
Durham and Burlington and was a member of the
North Carolina State Senate three times between
1937 and 1945. During World War II, he was a
lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Reserve. Civic
organization membership included the American
Business Club and B.P.O.E.

46 W&L

1928

Dr. Paul Swanson Hill, a surgeon in Harrisonburg,
Va., died Dec. 9, 1986. He graduated from the
University of Virginia Medical School in 1930 and
was a member of the Alpha Omega Alpha medical
society. He served his internship in general surgery
as an assistant resident surgeon at Baltimore City

‘Hospital. For four years he was the resident

surgeon at the University of Maryland. He serv-
ed with the Army Reserve as a major with the
Medical Corps during World War II. He began
his private practice in Harrisonburg in 1934 and
was a surgeon in the Rockingham Memorial
Hospital until his retirement following a heart at-
tack in 1975. He was a member of the Elks and

Lions Club.
1930

Arthur Lee Eberly, former district manager of the
National Federation for Independent Business,
died April 7, 1987. He began work as a salesman
for American Tobacco Co. and Axton Fisher
Tobacco Co. In 1935, he became a sales manager
with Pennsylvania Sugar Co. Eight years later, he
joined Charleston Truck and Trailer Service before
spending 13 years with the United States Chamber
of Commerce in Lakeland, Fla. He was once
public relations director for the Taxpayers League
of Polk County Inc. in Bartow, Fla.

1931

Francis Loraine Bowman, a retired real estate
broker from Wardensville, W. Va., died May 12,
1987. Bowman spent most of his life in the real
estate and farming businesses but was at one time
a negotiator for the Virginia Department of
Highways. He was the director of the National
Farm Association for several years and vice chair-
man for the Republican Party in Rockingham
County, Va. In 1945, he was unsuccessful in his
bid for the Virginia state legislature. He served on
the Rockingham School Board and was a member
of the Masons and Ruritan Club.

Waldo, Sherman Lopez, a retired service consul-
tant with Prudential Insurance Co., died Feb. 6,
1987. He lived in Minnetonka, Minn.

Dr. Lewis Alexander Vance, a retired physician
from Sarasota, Fla., died Feb. 27, 1987. Vance
graduated from the University of Virginia medical
school in 1935 and went to Newton (Mass.)
Hospital for a one-year internship. He moved on
to Massachusetts General Hospital, where he serv-
ed for a year as a pathology intern and then
became an assistant and senior resident in the X-
ray department. He joined the U.S. Naval Reserve
in 1939 and in May 1941 was called to active duty
and sent to the Naval Hospital at Chelsea, Mass.,
as an X-ray specialist. He returned to private prac-
tice and formed a group of X-ray specialists call-
ed Vance Dillon & Associates. The group grew to
seven in 1960, but Vance retired and moved to
Sarasota. He was a member of the Massachusetts
Medical Society and the American College of
Radiology. He served on the Red Cross board and
the Mote Marine Laboratory Board. He was also
commodore of Bird Key Yacht Club and the
Florida Council Yacht Club.

1932

James Dilling Sparks, a former Louisiana state
senator and lawyer from Monroe, La., died May
8, 1987. He received a W&L Distinguished Alum-
nus Award in 1982 for outstanding service to the
University. He was director of the Law School
Council, a member of the W&L Achievement
Council, and a class agent for three years. At W&L

he was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa na-
tional leadership fraternity and Phi Delta Phi legal
fraternity. After graduation he returned to Loui-
siana to practice law and later volunteered for
World War II naval service. During the war he was
involved in several combat engagements, serving
on torpedo squadrons aboard two aircraft carriers,
the USS Yorktown, known as ‘‘The Fighting
Lady,’’ and the USS Belleau Wood. He left the
Navy with the rank of lieutenant commander. He
was later named chairman of the board of the USS
Yorktown Foundation. In 1945 he joined the law
firm of Thompson Sparks & Cudd in Monroe. He
served two consecutive four-year terms in the Loui-
siana Senate ending in 1960. He was active in many
community organizations including the Red Cross
and the Grace Episcopal Church. He was presi-
dent of the Bayou DeSiard Country Club and 4th
District Bar Association. Sparks was active in the
real estate business and was involved in banking
as a member of the board of directors of Central
Bank in Monroe and as chairman of the executive
committee and a member of the president’s com-
mittee of Central Bank. He was a member of the
Lotus Club, Boston Club, New Orleans Club, and

City Club.
1934

Claude Harrison Jr., retired Roanoke advertising
executive, died May 25, 1987, at Roanoke
Memorial Hospital. He was the retired president
of Claude Harrison and Co., the Virginia Engrav-
ing Co. in Richmond, and the Roanoke Engrav-
ing Co. He was vice president of W-H Realty Co.
in Richmond. In 1948 Harrison started Claude
Harrison and Co., which merged with Houck and
Co. in 1981 to become Houck and Harrison Co.
He retired as its president in 1982. Before enter-
ing the field of advertising, he worked as a feature
writer for the Associated Press and as a reporter
for the Roanoke Times. In 1980, Harrison received
the Silver Medal award of the Advertising Federa-
tion of the Roanoke Valley for his contributions
to advertising standards, creativity, and social con-
cerns. He was chairman of Roanoke’s Welfare Ad-
visory Board, vice chairman of the Roanoke Coun-
ty Red Cross fund campaign, member of the
Brotherhood Citation of the National Conference
of Christians and Jews, and a member of the
Advertising Review Board of the Roanoke Valley
Better Business Bureau. He was also on the boards
of the Roanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce,
Nelson-Roanoke Corp., and Roanoke County
chapter of the American Red Cross. During World
War II he served as chief of public information
for the staff of commander destroyers of the
Atlantic Fleet. He also served duty as a gunnery
officer and as an executive officer on the USS
Caldwell in the South Pacific. He was a member
of St. John’s Episcopal Church, the Roanoke
Kiwanis Club, and the Bedford, Va., Fireman’s
Band. He was also a member of the Roanoke
Country Club, the Shenandoah Club in Roanoke,
and the Army-Navy Club in Washington, D.C.

1935

Gilbert Carlyle McKown, an attorney from Ber-
ryville, Va., died April 30, 1987. Upon leaving
W&L he went to law school at the University of
Richmond. He began practicing law in Berryville
in 1945. During World War II, he served in the
Navy and left the service as a lieutenant com-
mander. He was a trustee of Grace Episcopal
Church, president of the board of directors of the
Green Hill Cemetery of Clarke County, and a past
president of the Millwood Country Club. He was
a member of the American Bar Association and

 

a member of the bar in Virginia, West Virginia,
and Clarke County.

Peyton Brown Winfree Jr., former president of
W&L’s Alumni Association, died April 22, 1987.
A native of Lynchburg, Winfree worked in news
and public relations for 40 years and was a former
executive editor of the Lynchburg News and Dai-
ly Advance. He got his start with the paper as a
cub reporter making $10 a week. He moved to
Richmond in 1958 to become executive assistant
to Virginia Gov. J. Lindsay Almond Jr. in charge
of public relations and advertising for the state
Division of Industrial Development and Planning.
In 1964, he moved to Roanoke to become direc-
tor of public relations and advertising for the Nor-

folk and Western Railway. He was the former
president of the Railroad Public Relations Associa-
tion and one-time chairman of the National
Freedom of Information Committee of the
Associated Press Managing Editors Association.

1936
John Tobias Cover died May 13, 1987, at the
University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlot-
tesville. He was a retired vice president of Church
Insurance Co. In February 1980, he retired as
regional vice president of Church Pension Fund,
an affiliate of the Episcopal Church, but continued
as a consultant for Church in that region. Prior
to his work with Church, Cover was insurance
department head for Clem and Co. in Staunton,

Va., and was a field representative for fire and
casualty insurance companies in Pennsylvania,
Delaware, New Jersey, North Carolina, and
Virginia. He was also a rate analyst for the Virginia
State Corporation Commission’s Bureau of In-
surance. He was a Navy lieutenant in the
mid-1940s.

Kenneth Proctor Lane, retired Richmond business
executive, died May 29, 1987. At W&L, he was
elected to Omicron Delta Kappa national leader-
ship fraternity. He remained active with the
University after graduation as president of the
Alumni Association and chairman of the steering
committee for his 50th reunion. In 1936 he join-
ed David M. Lea Co. Inc., which later became Lea

 

 

James Holt Starling, 1912-1987

ames Holt Starling, professor of

biology emeritus, died April 20, 1987.
Starling’s obituary appeared in the In
Memoriam section of the May/June issue
of the Alumni Magazine.

At its meeting in June, the
Washington and Lee faculty adopted the
following memorial in Starling’s honor:

James Holt Starling, professor of
biology emeritus and

= former head of the
University’s depart-
ment of biology, died
unexpectedly on April
20, 1987. He was 74
years of age and serv-
ed on the faculty of
Washington and Lee
University from the
fall of 1942 until his retirement in June
of 1983—a total of 41 years of service.

Jim was born in Troy, Ala., in 1912.
He received both his B.A. degree and
M.A. degree from the University of
Alabama and his Ph.D. degree from
Duke University in 1942. He was a
member of Sigma Xi and Alpha Epsilon
Delta. He served in the medical depart-
ment of the United States Army from
1943 to 1946 as a parasitologist and com-
manding officer of a malaria survey unit
in both New Guinea and the Philippine
Islands.

During his tenure at Washington and
Lee, Jim served the University well on
nearly every committee, including the
Freshman Advisory Committee, Univer-
sity Executive Committee, Social Func-
tions Committee, Insurance Committee,
and Public Functions Committee. With
respect to the latter he served as both
chairman and University marshal. He
was, at one time or another, a visiting
professor at Troy State College, Ap-

  

palachian State College, the University of
Virginia, and Alabama College. During
the summer of 1961 he held a National
Science Foundation grant for research in
radiation biology at the Oak Ridge In-
stitute of Nuclear Studies. Special studies
were, at various times, carried out at the
University of Michigan, the National
Historical Museum of London, and the
University of North Carolina.

It seems fair to say that during the last
10 years of his teaching career at
Washington and Lee Jim devoted a
significant portion of his non-teaching
time advising, counseling, and invariably
challenging those students who express-
ed an interest in a health care career.
Jim’s interest in ‘‘premeds’’ was virtual-
ly legendary, and he led them well from
1962 until his retirement in 1983 as coor-
dinator of the Premedical Advisory Com-
mittee and adviser to Alpha Epsilon Delta
(the honorary fraternity for premedical
students).

During this period 442 students were
accepted by medical schools—a number
representing over 80 percent of those who
applied. The numbers become more im-
pressive when one realizes the national
average for successful admission was only
32 percent during the same period.

At the time of his retirement Jim was
the ‘‘dean’’ of premedical advisers in
Virginia and, indeed, in the southeastern
United States. As such, he was frequent-
ly asked for advice by younger, less ex-
perienced advisers and enthusiastically en-
dorsed as an authority by medical school
deans of admission. To travel with Jim
to national, regional, and local meetings
of premedical advisers was an
experience—an experience in that he was
rarely left alone: those soliciting advice
were always nearby.

To his students he will always be fond-
ly known as ‘‘Jungle Jim’’—a name that
he himself encouraged with his vivid
descriptions and photographs of various
tropical disorders he observed during his
military career. His erect stature, white
laboratory coat, quick smile, and warm
welcome of ‘‘Hello friend’’ always
endeared him to his students.

Additionally, he will be fondly recall-
ed as ‘‘the biology professor who em-
phasized the importance of knowing
Latin derivatives’’ and, when a prefix or
suffix was not known, gently encourag-
ed the student to consult his friend ‘‘Mr.
Webster’’—for his laboratory was never
without a copy of Webster’s Unabridged
Dictionary. It was as much a part of his
teaching technique as microscopes,
zoological specimens, or his ever-present
human skeleton.

Not only did Jim Starling serve
Washington and Lee University well but
he likewise was active within the larger
community of Lexington. He worked
within our local and state Tuberculosis
Associations and the Red Cross Blood
Bank and, more recently, served as a
deacon and then elder in the Lexington
Presbyterian Church.

‘*Jimbo’’ had many friends both on
and off the Washington and Lee campus.
Those of us who knew Jim sensed his
satisfaction with the completeness of his
life and his desire to lead it to its fullest
to the very end. We are most pleased that
indeed this was the case.

We mourn the loss of our colleague
and friend and hereby recommend that
this tribute be adopted by the faculty and
spread upon its minutes. We further wish
to express our deepest sympathy to his
wife, Nell; his son, John; his daughter-
in-law, Cynthia; and his grandson, Jay.

 

W&L

47

 

Industries. Lane left the company as vice presi-
dent in 1961. He then became owner and presi-
dent of Lange & Crist Box and Lumber Co. of Em-
poria, Va. The company became the American
Box Co., where Lane served as director of develop-
ment until 1967. In 1964, he founded the Kenzo
Corp., involved in land and other related in-
vestments. Three years later he joined T.R. Miller
Mill Co. in Brewton, Ala., as manager of the box
division. He eventually became vice president,
retiring in 1977. He is the past president of the
American Wire-Bound Box Association. He was
a member of the Richmond Jaycees, president of
the Richmond Citizens Association, and president
of Rotary Clubs in the South Richmond, Brewton,
and Kilmarnock-Irvington, Va., areas. He was also
a board member of the Rappahannock
Westminster-Canterbury Foundation in Irvington
at the time of his death. He served as a deacon
and Sunday School teacher in the Baptist Church.

Roderick Matteson Willis, retired president of
Keystone Engineering & Products Co. Inc. of Seat-
tle, died Sept. 30, 1986. After leaving W&L Willis
received his master’s degree in chemical engineer-
ing from the University of Michigan. He was in-
volved in many civic activities, serving as director
of the Interclub Boating Association, president of
the Richmond Beach Preservation Foundation,
treasurer and board member of the Richmond
Beach Community Council, and board member
of the Shoreline Historic Museum. Willis was also
a member of the Seattle, Rainier, and Nanaimo
Yacht Clubs.

Dr. Albert Compton Broders Jr., retired physician
from Temple, Texas, died May 12, 1987. He
graduated from the Medical College of Virginia.
In October 1949 he joined the staff of Scott and
White Clinic, where he founded the
gastroenterology section and served as its chief un-
til his retirement in 1981. He served on the clinic’s
board of directors from 1969 to 1980 and was
secretary-treasurer from 1973 to 1980. During
World War II, he was a Navy officer at Oak Knoll
Naval Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He also served
as president of the Cultural Activities Center in
Temple and was on the founding board of direc-
tors of Temple Civic Theatre. Broders was a
founder and senior warden of St. Francis
Episcopal Church and was also a former trustee
of St. Stephen’s Episcopal School in Austin,
Texas. Medical memberships included the
American Medical Association, Texas Medical
Association, Bell County Medical Society,
American Gastroenterological Association, and
American College of Gastroenterology.

Thomas Burke Cottingham died Dec. 5, 1986. He
spent 21 years with the U.S. Army and Air Force
and retired in 1976 to Warrenton, Va.

Oliver King Jones Jr., former chairman of the
board of the National Association of Hosiery
Manufacturers, died May 20, 1987. Since 1956, he
had been president and general manager of Sweet-
water Hosiery Mills in Tennessee. He was also
president of Crescent Hosiery Mills and founder
and director of Dycho Chemical Co. and
Whitecliff Corp. He was an active leader in the
community and was presented a Sweetwater Com-
munity Service Award by the mayor in 1985. He
served as an officer in the U.S. Army during World
War II and received the Bronze Star for
meritorious service at Cherbourg, France, when
he was honorably discharged as a major. Follow-
ing the war Jones helped reorganize the Tennessee
National Guard of Sweetwater, which had been

48 W&L

defunct since 1912, and also served active duty at
Fort Devens, Mass., until 1950. He had a major
influence in having a National Guard armory built
in Sweetwater. He served as secretary-treasurer and
assistant manager of the Sweetwater Hosiery Mills
before becoming president in 1956. He was a
business leader in other capacities as well, serving
as president of Guthrie, Bradley and Jones Hard-
ware Corp. and the O.K. Jones Co., Wholesale
Grocers. He was on the board of directors of the
Sweetwater Valley Bank for 19 years and had been
on the board of governors of the Tennessee
Manufacturers’ and Taxpayers’ Association (now
the Tennessee Association of Business). He serv-
ed as chairman of the board of Tennessee Military
Institute and headed a capital funds campaign that
raised $750,000. Jones was also chairman of a fund
drive to build the Sweetwater Public Library and
was a campaign leader to raise money for a public
pool in Sweetwater. He was elected to three six-
year terms on the Monroe County Quarterly (now
the Monroe County Board of Commissioners), ser-
ving from 1960 to 1978. In 1985, he received a
State Award of Merit from the governor for hav-
ing served 35 years on the board of Sweetwater
Hospital. He was also given a Certificate of Ex-
cellence from the Tennessee Hospital Association.
For his work with the Boy Scouts, he was presented
an award for outstanding service by the Great
Smoky Mountain Council, Boy Scouts of America.
Church involvement included a lifelong member-
ship with the First Presbyterian Church of Sweet-
water, the Home Mission Committee of the former
Knoxville Presbytery, and the Board of Visitors
of church-affiliated King College in Bristol, Tenn.
At W&L, Jones was a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa leadership fraternity and was president of
the Cotillion Club.

Henry Jonathan Ray Jr. of Grenada, Miss., died

Oct. 27, 1986. He was past president of the Bank
of Mississippi in Grenada. He spent several years
as a master sergeant in the U.S. Army, serving
much of that time in the Manila area of the
Philippines.

Dr. Guy Coleman Oswalt, a surgeon from Mobile,
Ala., died Feb. 9, 1987. Oswalt finished Tulane
Medical School in 1944 and started practicing in
New Orleans. He was a captain in the Army
Medical Corps for two years before starting the
partnership of Drs. Oswalt and Rouse in Mobile.
He was a fellow with the Alton Ochsner Medical
Foundation until 1949. He was a member of the
Presbyterian Church, Mobile Country Club,
Lakewood Golf Club, and the Athelston Club.

Anthony Edward D’Emilio died May 18, 1987. He
was an enrolled federal tax accountant and former
president of the Estate Planning Association in
Wexford, Pa. He worked as a general agent for
the Ohio State Life Insurance Co. in Pittsburgh.
D’Emilio was also president of the Pittsburgh
Diocesan Union of Holy Name Societies and
directed Holy Name activities in the diocese for
some 80,000 members in 340 parishes and
missions.

Pieter Dilts Bennett, public relations editor for
Amway Corp. in Ada, Mich., died April 6, 1987.
He was formerly a newspaper reporter for World-
News in Roanoke before going to work for the
now-defunct Times in Atlanta. He then joined the
Associated Press and worked for 14 years in Atlan-
ta, Montgomery, Ala., and Michigan. He was
president of the Atlanta AP branch, Wire Service
Guild. Bennett was a former officer of Sigma Delta
Chi, the professional journalism society.

 

‘“SHENANDOAH

€¢

tained.’’

splendor.’’

ISSUES ARE $3.50

24450

 

- SHENANDOAH

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

has long been a

showcase for exceptional writing.’”’

The Washington Post

. . . Well burnished excellence, long main-

Kirkus Reviews

‘¢ . Since 1950 SHENANDOAH has been full
of fictional, critical, poetic and biographical

The New York Times Book Review

SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE $11 A YEAR ($14 FOREIGN); SINGLE

Write: SHENANDOAH, Box 722, Lexincton, VA.

 

 

Follow

The Generals

Sept. 26
Sept. 29

  

Oct. 1
Oct. 3
Oct. 6

Oct. 10

Oct. 13
Oct. 15
Oct. 17

Oct. 19

Oct. 21

Oct. 24

<a
ES

This

Re =

el’
Pa

   

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Sweet Briar
Randolph-Macon
(Ashland)
Hollins
Lynchburg
Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College
Randolph-Macon
(Ashland)
Roanoke

Hollins

Sweet Briar
Roanoke
Lynchburg
Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College

Fall

 

Home

Away
Away
Away

Away

Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Home

Home

Sept. 12
Sept. 26
Oct. 3

Oct. 10

Oct. 17
Oct. 24
Oct. 31

Nov. 7
Nov. 14

Sept.. 16
Sept. 19
Sept. 23
Sept. 26
Sept. 29
Oct. 6

Oct. 10
Oct. 14
Oct. 17
Oct. 20
Oct. 25
Oct. 28
Oct. 31
Nov. 2

Sept. 26

Oct. 3

Oct. 10
Oct. 24
Oct. 31

Nov. 7

FOOTBALL

Emory and Henry
Centre
Randolph-Macon
Maryville
(Homecoming)
Hampden-Sydney
Sewanee
Bridgewater
(Parents’ Weekend)
Ursinus
Georgetown

MEN’S SOCCER

Shenandoah
Greensboro

Mary Washington
Maryville

Eastern Mennonite
Roanoke

Messiah
Lynchburg
Gettysburg

VMI

Johns Hopkins
Hampden-Sydney
Millersville
Averett

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Mary Washington,
Washington College
Norfolk St., Roanoke
Catholic

Bridgewater, WV Tech
Hampden-Sydney
Eastern Mennonite
ODAC Championship

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept. 26 Mary Washington
Oct. 3 Norfolk State
Oct. 10 Virginia State Meet
Oct. 24 W.Va. Tech
Oct. 31 Lynchburg,

Eastern Mennonite
Nov. 7 ODAC Championship

WATER POLO

Sept. 11-13 W&L Fall Classic
Sept. 18-20 NE Varsity Inv.
Sept. 26 State Champions.
Oct. 3-4 Southern League
Oct. 9-11 SE Varsity Inv.
Oct. 17-18 Southern League
Oct. 30-31 Southern League
Nov. 6-8 Eastern Champions.

Away
Home
Away
Home

Away
Away
Home

Away
Home

Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Home
Away
Home
Home
Away

Away
Away
Home
Home

Home
Away

Away
Away
Away
Home

Home
Away

Home
Away
Away
Home
Away
Away
Home
Away

 

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

     

: i
: sgt
Pose” “<a . 3 \

oll

Homecoming ’87
October 9-11

featuring

 

in

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion,

Chapter Presidents’ Conference,
and

Fraternity House Corporations Conference

Friday, October 9

e 12:10 p.m.—The John Randolph Tucker Lecture, Lewis Hall

e 5:30 p.m.—Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming Queen Court, Alumni House
e¢ 7:00 p.m.—Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet #

Saturday, October 10
11:30 a.m.—Men’s Cross Country: Generals vs. Catholic University, Wilson Field
11:30 a.m.—Alumni Luncheon, Athletic Fields
11:30 a.m.—Women’s Soccer: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon (Ashland), Smith Field
1:30 p.m.—Football: Generals vs. Maryville College, Wilson Field

3:00 p.m.—Men’s Soccer: Generals vs. Messiah College, Smith Field

4:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception, Alumni House

Sunday, October 11
e 1:00 p.m.—Lacrosse: Alumni vs. Varsity, Wilson Field

For more information, write:
Homecoming ’87
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage
PAID
Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

Ee

 

sai! > ore

