'

N. MANCHESTER, INDIANA

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

. of Washington-and Lee

  

The AlumnieMagazine  ¢@ 3

 

*  January/FebruarYel 987 E ;

>

'

=

>
e. ~~

*

“é
.e

\¢

   
  
 
   
   
 

THE UNIVERSITY CIBRAWR

MIT =
78 : . =. rz —
uJ —-— iw. Ee

UNIVERSIT!
IN, VAi 24450

Wih > ome

  

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24430

es

 

S442 Gees

$0004. %

eek hie tty ee 4
oct t |

eee et Tt

eke le.

Ps

%

 

MAR 28 1988

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 62, Number 1, February 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
PaTRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, IIl.

JOHN W. Fotsom, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, ’62, Treasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFourR, 63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarD CapPITo, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JrR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., 65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

Wayn_E D. McGrew Jr., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

PauL J. B. MurpHy, ’49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JrR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 753
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 57
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

Mig

;
;

 
 

 

A volunteer in
Guatemalan
malaria
surveillance
displays blood
samples he has
collected. See
story on page 20.

 

2 Greek To Them

 

6 The Foreign Student

 

11 Lord, Keep Us Fit

 

14 + Think Fitness

 

16 An Uncommon Pursuit

 

20 Poverty and Health

 

25 W&L Gazette

 

28 Alumni News

 

30 # Class Notes |

 

39 In Memoriam

 

On the Cover: Footprints in the snow create an interesting pattern
on Stemmons Plaza in front of the University Library. Photograph
by Sally Mann. Inside Front Cover: The rocking chairs on the porch
of the Lee House wear a blanket of snow in this photograph by

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

i

UJ
A
§

; r
\

aw

 

a

—_ an =
— (Bi Mar JS 745

It’s All Greek
(And Latin)

To Them

 

Breathing New Life into ‘Dead’ Languages

 

Rident stolidi
verba Latina*

*(Fools laugh at the Latin language.)

W&L

By Anne Coulling

Th. Roman poet Ovid penned those
words about 2,000 years ago. But John
Starks, a Washington and Lee junior,
believes there is more truth in that statement
today than ever.

Starks knows all about people laughing
at Latin, too. He happens to be the only stu-
dent currently majoring in classics at
Washington and Lee.

That makes Starks something of an
anachronism—and he is keenly aware of his
status. His, after all, is a career-oriented
generation, whose members are more likely

to choose courses of study in such fields as
business administration or accounting than
in classics.

Besides, this is the 1980s. Fluency in such
‘dead languages’? as Latin and ancient
Greek simply won’t help close many business
deals, even in international business.

But Starks is unperturbed by these ques-
tions of marketability. ‘“The issue for me is
not whether a major is practical,’ he says,
‘“‘but whether you’ll enjoy it. I’m majoring
in classics because I like it.”’

Let the fools laugh all they want.

 

 

Classics professors Mario Pellicciaro (left) and Herman Taylor

‘Dewetiy years ago, John Starks’s interest
in classics would not have seemed extraor-
dinary. At that time, recalls classics professor
Herman Taylor, a typical introductory Latin
class might enroll as many as 65 students,
with 40 in the average first-year Greek
course. On one occasion, Taylor says, more
than 40 students were enrolled in a third-year
Latin literature class. Indeed, under the
degree requirements in place at that time,
students who were not majoring in one of
the sciences were permitted to take Greek or
Latin language courses rather than
mathematics.

All that changed in the late 1960s when
the W&L faculty instituted a new set of rules
requiring students to take six credits either
in English or in any foreign language. As a

result, enrollments in Latin and Greek, as
well as in the modern languages, dropped off
sharply.

But those numbers are on their way back
up; the once-empty classrooms are beginning
to fill up, both across the country and at
Washington and Lee. Latin is rapidly gain-
ing popularity in secondary schools: accord-
ing to an article in the Washington Post,
169,580 high school students took Latin in
1982, up from 150,470 in 1976, and en-
rollments among Virginia students increased
100 percent from 1974 to 1984. Elementary
schools are even getting into the act: an in-
novative program in Philadelphia teaches
children Latin in 20-minute sessions of songs
and games every day.

Proof of this trend can be found in

Washington and Lee’s admissions office,
where applicant files reflect the increased in-
terest in Latin as a ‘‘foreign’’ language.
‘**There are definitely more students in our
applicant pool now whose transcripts in-
dicate they are studying Latin,’’ says Julia
Kozak, associate director of admissions.

And once they get to Washington and
Lee, more and more students are taking
classes in ancient studies. Enrollment in
Latin in 1985-86 was the highest it had been
in five years. And a course on Greek and
Roman mythology last term enrolled 86
students—the highest enrollment of any
single class taught in any subject during the
term.

For his part, Taylor believes the increase
in Washington and Lee’s enrollment figures

W&L 3

 

 

‘Just because a language
isn’t spoken anymore,
people assume it’s
useless.’

—John Starks, ’88

has less to do with national trends than with
the general education requirements that were
instituted at the University in 1983. Under
that revised curriculum students must achieve
competence in a foreign language through
the intermediate level. The result has been
a dramatic jump in enrollment in all foreign
languages, ancient as well as modern.

In addition, other courses within the
realm of classics studies enjoy a consistent
level of popularity. A class on the history of
ancient Greece, for instance, regularly enrolls
50 students or so, and in the 1985 spring
term, 89 undergraduates took a course on an-
cient Roman history.

Such indications of increasing interest in
classics notwithstanding, things still are not
what they were 20 years ago. For one thing,
the students’ reasons for taking classes in an-
cient subjects have changed.

“‘There has been a general shift in percep-
tion,’’ explains Mario Pellicciaro, assistant
professor of classics. ‘‘It’s ironic that
students used to take Latin and Greek
because they were the foundation of western
tradition. Now students take these languages
because they are somehow exotic.

**At one time classics was seen as being
the center of the liberal arts. It doesn’t oc-
cupy that traditional place anymore.’’

That shift is reflected in the fact that only
one Washington and Lee student, junior
John Starks, is currently majoring in classics.

‘“‘When I first decided to major in
classics, my mother asked me if I was going
to be a priest,’’, Starks recalls. (He isn’t.)

*‘Other people can major in a foreign
language, and no one ever asks them why.
Just because a language isn’t spoken
anymore, people assume it’s useless.’’

Starks argues that his study of Latin is
anything but useless. For instance, he
observes that his three years of high school
preparation helped him immeasurably on the
verbal portion of the Scholastic Aptitude
Test. And he believes his knowledge of the
language will be of similar benefit when
he takes the Graduate Record Examination.

His skills in Latin have rendered other,
unforeseen benefits. When he took W&L’s
ancient Roman history course, Starks con-
ducted the research for his papers by reading
the ancient texts in their original language,
bypassing the translations. ‘‘Being able to
read something in the original makes it so
much more interesting,’’ he explains. ‘‘And
besides, the translations are almost always
so bad.”’

Starks readily acknowledges that reading
historical texts written 2,000 years ago in a
language that has not been spoken in several
hundred years would obviously not appeal
to everyone. The mere prospect of having to

confront something called ‘‘the ablative ab-
solute’’ is enough to scare many people away
from the study of Latin.

There is no disputing the fact that classics
is a demanding major. It requires at least six
courses in Latin and/or Greek above the in-
troductory level and at least four classes in
related subjects chosen from such depart-
ments as art, history, philosophy, and
religion.

But it is primarily the language that
would discourage most people from pursu-
ing the major. ‘‘People are often scared off
by the exactness of Latin,’’ says Starks.
“You have to read very, very carefully.’’

Starks is currently enrolled in first-year
Greek and confesses that even with his strong
background in language, Greek is quite a
challenge.

Yet, the very difficulty of the language
is what appeals to Jon Preziosi, ’88, who is
currently enrolled in an upper-level literature
course in Latin. ‘‘You have to study Latin
every day,’’ explains Preziosi, a philosophy
major who is considering adding a second
major in classics. ‘‘It’s a good form of self-
discipline.”’

Both Starks and Preziosi find strong
similarities between Latin and mathematics.
It is not surprising, then, that Starks has a
second major in math. ‘‘People think that
a double major in classics and math is a
strange combination,’’ Starks says. ‘‘But I
don’t think it’s so strange. I use the same
skills for both fields—skills of logic and
analytical thinking.’’

Hen Taylor believes the job of
teaching Latin has become even more dif-
ficult in recent years, because of the poor
preparation students receive in the rudiments
of English grammar during their elementary
and secondary school careers.

‘*T have students who haven’t been given
any structured grammar at all,’’ Taylor says.
‘‘Back in the ’60s, that wasn’t the case.
That’s what beginning Latin is—grammar.
I think that if you haven’t had some gram-
mar by the time you’re 18, then it’s too late.
That’s why I get some students who find it
almost impossible to learn Latin—they simp-
ly can’t process it.

‘‘As for those who do well, it’s not
because of my teaching. It’s because that’s
the way they are.’’

Says John Starks: ‘‘People ask me not
only why I’m majoring in classics, but also
how. Most of the time they say, ‘Oh, you’re
so smart.’ I say, ‘No, it’s just what I’m good
at 99

He concedes that the study of Latin is
probably rendered more difficult because of
its status as a ‘‘dead language.’’ ‘‘I think a

 

 

‘You can’t very well
spend your spring term

in ancient Rome. ’”’

Jon Preziosi, ’88

 

modern language is more accessible because
you can hear it spoken,’’ he says. ‘‘You have
to learn Latin primarily through memoriza-
tion.”’

Or, as Jon Preziosi wryly observes: ‘‘You
can’t very well spend your spring term in an-
cient Rome.”’

The static nature of ancient Greek and
Latin is what primarily distinguishes them
from modern languages. A Greek professor
can’t bring in a newspaper so his classes can
read all about current events at the Par-
thenon. And a Latin teacher can’t add to his
syllabus the latest best-seller from Rome. The
literary canon in these languages is establish-
ed, for the most part, and has been for cen-
turies, although occasionally new discoveries
are made of Greek manuscripts. Doesn’t that
make the study of Latin and Greek less
interesting?

Mario Pellicciaro thinks not. ‘‘The
material may not change,”’ Pellicciaro says,
‘*but our perception of it changes with each
generation. When scholars interpret ancient
Greece, they interpret their own society as
well. So we study not only the text itself, but
also the interpretations of our grandparents.

‘‘The language may be dead, but the
story isn’t finished.”’

A tthoush enrollments in classics have in-
creased in recent years, this change has oc-
curred primarily at the introductory level.
Most upper-level classes have remained
small. John Starks has had to get accustom-
ed to being the only student in class. He sees
that as a distinct advantage of the classics
major.

‘“‘One of the reasons I came to
Washington and Lee was for the low student-
teacher ratio,’’ he explains. ‘‘I thoroughly
enjoy being the only one in a class. I can go
at my own pace, and we can discuss what I
want to discuss.’’

On the other hand, going to class solo can
have its drawbacks, too. ‘‘It would be a help
to have other people there, just to get some-
one else’s ideas,’’ Starks says. ‘‘And being
the only person in a course means I have to
translate every day. I have to be prepared,
or else there’s no class.”’

Preziosi often faces the same predica-
ment. ‘‘It’s hard to cut class if you’re tak-
ing Latin,’’ he says. ‘‘The professor is real-
ly going to miss you if you’re not there.’’

It is certainly true, says Herman Taylor,
that the classics major attracts students ‘‘with
an unusual bent of mind.’’ ‘‘So many
students tend to gravitate toward the com-
merce school,’’ he says. ‘‘But even when we
get only a few majors, they are usually very,
very good students.”’

Then there is always that burning ques-

tion of today’s student generation—the ques-
tion of marketability. What do you do with
a major in classics? John Starks plans to pur-
sue a master’s degree in ancient languages
and a doctorate in ancient history. Then he
hopes to teach.

This year he has been gaining valuable
experience in that field. He has been tutor-
ing an eighth-grader who was unable to get
into an introductory Latin class at Lex-
ington’s middle school.

**T think I would enjoy teaching,’’ Starks
says. ‘‘I would be learning all the time, and
I would be helping others to learn. I know
I wouldn’t make lots of money, but that’s
not what I’m worried about.”’

Still, the questions remain unanswered—
or, at least, not fully answered. In an age that
worships computers and technology, why
does John Starks want to spend his life
teaching and learning about a civilization and
a language that died hundreds of years ago?
While their classmates are tabulating figures
in the commerce school or writing computer
programs in Tucker Hall, what are John
Starks and Jon Preziosi doing memorizing
verb forms that no one uses anymore, and
studying the history of a city whose buildings
now lie in ruins?

‘*T have a hard time explaining it,’’ Starks
says. ‘‘It has something to do with the fact
that for hundreds of years, classical studies
were required for all students. I don’t feel
like snubbing the entire intellectual world of
the past several centuries and saying, ‘What
you thought was important is useless.’

“‘The Greek and Roman cultures were ex-
tremely important. And if it weren’t for
those two languages, we wouldn’t have
English as we know it.’’

This helps explain why Washington and
Lee, even in the face of relatively small
enrollments, continues to offer studies in an-
cient subjects. ‘“These are the wellsprings of
the western tradition,’’ says John W. Elrod,
vice president for academic affairs and dean
of the College (of arts and sciences). ‘‘We
must continue to offer these courses, even
at times when enrollment is low. Classical
literature and philosophy and art and history
are the essence of the liberal arts program.’’

Says Preziosi: ‘‘You have to study an-
cient texts to have an understanding of our
society. We need to be able to look back at
our heritage and see where we came from.’’

Starks offers yet another reason for his
interest in classics. ‘‘I guess,’’ he admits, ‘‘I
have developed an infatuation with the
Roman culture.”’

The poet Ovid said that fools laugh at the
Latin language. John Starks doesn’t care.
Let them laugh. He thinks the ablative ab-
solute is here to stay.

W&L 5

The
Foreign

Student

 

Philippe Labro, ’58, Puts W&L on the French Map
With His Highly Acclaimed New Novel

 

Se in the last few months, pictures
of Washington and Lee’s white-pillared Col-
onnade have been springing up in popular
magazines all over France.

W&L has been getting extraordinary
publicity in Europe thanks to a Frenchman
who attended the University in the 1950s.

Philippe Labro, now a well-known
French journalist, novelist, and filmmaker,
has written a best-selling novel based on his
W&L experience.

Still unavailable in English, L’Etudiant
etranger, or The Foreign Student, is a
romantic novel about a naive young scholar-
ship student from France who comes of age
at an elegant university in the American
South. Although the school is unnamed, it
is unmistakably Washington and Lee.

Green Buick convertibles . . . drive-in
movies . . . pretty young women in tight car-
digans who looked like Grace Kelly and

 

Mary Bishop is a senior writer and head of the
Shenandoah Bureau of the Roanoke Times &
World-News. This story is adapted from an arti-
cle that appeared in that newspaper.

6 W&L

By Mary Bishop

 

This photograph of Philippe Labro appeared
in the 1956 edition of The Calyx.

made the student ‘‘sick with desire’. . . the
smell of tulip poplars... nights that
‘trembled with beauty’’ . . . the movies of
James Dean . . . the music of Fats Domino
and Elvis Presley . . . ‘‘whiffs of green grass
and Pabst Blue Ribbon beer bubbles.”’

Labro’s book is loaded with rich imagery
of the South during the Eisenhower years.
Critics in France have acclaimed it. There
even have been comparisons with J. D. Sal-
inger, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Thomas
Wolfe.

Winner of four French awards, including
the prestigious Le Prix Interallie, the book
is now in its seventh printing and remains
near the top of most French best-seller lists.
It was No. 1 on those lists for several
months. At last count, more than 180,000
copies had been sold—an unusual commer-
cial success in France.

The book has even made some ripples on
this side of the Atlantic. In early December,
Labro and the novel were featured on a seg-
ment of National Public Radio’s ‘‘Morning
Edition”’ during which Labro read several

 

 

 

 

 

 

passages from the novel in English.

At this point The Foreign Student is
scheduled to be translated into English and
published in the United States by Ballantine
by early 1988. But even though that transla-
tion is at least a year away, Labro reports
that he has already been receiving telephone
calls from Los Angeles about the movie
rights.

The idea of writing a novel about his ex-
periences at W&L had been tugging at him
for a long time, Labro said in a telephone
interview from Paris in December.

A Fulbright scholar at W&L from 1954
to 1956, Labro remembers Lexington and the
campus as ‘‘a very privileged place.
Beautiful, quiet, serene.’’

To a young Frenchman, the place seem-
ed ‘‘exotic’’ and ‘‘magical,’’ he said, adding:
‘*It looked like a little jewel.’’

He was charmed, too, by the Rockbridge
County countryside that stretched just
beyond the University. ‘‘I adored my Pari-
sian lycee, but it was surrounded by fence,’’
he told a French magazine last fall in a
discussion of the novel’s roots. ‘‘In this

8 W&L

university [Washington and Lee], there was
no fence.’’

His years in Lexington were nearly as im-
portant as the first years of his life, Labro
has said. ‘‘It’s as if I was born there a sec-
ond time.’’

Labro, now 50, does not apologize for
his sentimental memories of 30 years ago.
‘The whole thing about this novel,’ he said,
‘sis I worked with my memory and, as you
know, your memory plays tricks on you.”’

As he remembers it, the America he
discovered in the 1950s was ‘‘bucolic and
romantic,’’ he told a French magazine. It
was the years ‘‘before Vietnam, before
drugs, before the liberation of manners.”

And Washington and Lee was “a
veritable orchard of gentlemen,’’ according
to a French magazine’s story on the book.

‘‘They were the children of a very
privileged social class,’’ Labro was quoted
as saying, ‘‘children who had still not en-
countered the cruelty of the adult world.”’
He remembers students with names like Beau
Anthony Bedford and Page de Ronde
Crowther.

He remembers football at Washington
and Lee. As a young Frenchman, he was sur-

prised by the violence of American
football—‘‘by the trappings, the helmets, the
shoulder pads, the shin guards and knee
pads. And also by the notion of war: foot-
ball is war without deaths; it’s Clausewitz.
And then it’s the pretext for an intense
university life with majorettes, flags, and gin
that is passed around in the stands in little
silver flasks.”’

He remembers concerts on the lawn of
the Front Campus, such as one by Stan Ken-
ton and his orchestra. ‘‘You had the right
to go without a jacket, which was usually
obligatory. There was a charm and a letting-
go: the odor of trees, the sun, the nature of
Virginia, one of the most beautiful parts of
America.”’

When Labro set out to write The Foreign
Student, a friend loaned him a little room
in Paris, where he could concentrate on the
book, far from his wife and children. He
spread out his old Virginia road maps, photo
albums, a W&L yearbook, and magazines
from the 1950s. ‘‘...I began to flip
through the pages, to smell the strange smell
of yellowed paper, and everything came
back,’’ he said.

Some French journalists have marvelled

 

re

that Labro—seen by many in the French
public as a hard-nosed newsman—has so
freely exhibited his soft and sentimental side
in the novel.

The mid-1950s was ‘‘a very genteel time
for him to be here,’’ said Frank Parsons, ex-
ecutive assistant to W&L President John D.
Wilson. Parsons was W&L’s publicity direc-
tor during Labro’s time on the campus.
Labro and Lloyd Dobyns, now an American
television newsman, were Parsons’ student
assistants.

The lives of students at that time
bordered on being glamorous, in Labro’s
memory. He has vivid recollections of the
balls and parties and concerts. ‘‘Virtually
every Washington and Lee student owned a
tux in those days,’’ noted Parsons, putting
that period in perspective.

But there was sadness amid the glamour,
and Labro does not avoid that in his book.

In fact, the novel begins with the
discovery of a death on the campus. Labro
noted that this opening scene is similar to a
death in the mid-’50s, when a freshman
rigged himself in a strange sexual apparatus
and wound up accidentally strangling
himself. Some of the details about the
episode as it appears in the novel were, Labro
explains, his inventions.

He hadn’t planned to start his novel with
the finding of a corpse, Labro said, adding
that ‘‘it came at the tip of my pen.’’ Even
though he has not thought of that incident
much in 30 years, he acknowledges that ‘‘it
must have struck my unconscious.”’

As he recalls, there was little talk about
the student’s demise the day after he was
found. ‘‘Young people don’t mull too long
over a mystery,’’ he said in the phone inter-
view. ‘‘They forge ahead.”’

Since The Foreign Student was publish-
ed in late September, Labro has been hear-
ing from many European readers who came
to college in the United States years ago—
to Wisconsin, Massachusetts, California—
and were as enthralled by the American
culture they found as was Labro. ‘‘Many,
many, many French people have come
through what we call the American ex-
perience. They shared the same sentiments
that I write about,’’ he said.

A, a W&L student, Labro is remembered
as a high-spirited fellow, a curious and
adventurous newcomer to America, a ladies’
man, and a gifted and expressive writer.
‘Seemed to be interested in everything and
everybody, was no shrinking violet, raised
a little hell,’’ recalled William Fishback Jr.,
’56, now an associate vice president at the
University of Virginia. ‘‘We horsed around
a lot.’’

One of Labro’s visits to Washington and Lee came in May 1973 for the retirement party of

 

O. W. Riegel (right), former head of the journalism department and one of Labro’s mentors.

Fishback remembers accompanying
Labro to the Liquid Lunch, a tap room on
Lexington’s Main Street, and then
serenading a professor and his wife on their
front lawn.

As a journalism student at W&L, Labro
got a national news break in Lexington in
1956 when Vice President Alben Barkley died
while making a speech at W&L’s Mock Con-
vention. Labro was a stringer for the United
Press at the time and called in the story to
the national wire.

O. W. Riegel, the professor who was
serenaded by Labro and his pals, has been
friends with the writer all these years. Riegel,
now retired, was head of W&L’s journalism
department for 34 years. He and former
W&L journalism professor Paxton Davis
were Labro’s mentors.

Labro was eager to learn about his new
culture, said Riegel. ‘‘Rockbridge County
and Lexington culturally were a far cry from
the Left Bank of Paris.”’

‘*He was very serious about his American
experience,’’ Riegel added. ‘‘He wanted to
be accepted, to do well. He was exceptionally
ambitious, eager, curious.”’

‘*He’s one of the brightest students I ever
taught,’’ said Davis, who is now a Roanoke
Times & World-News columnist and has
visited with Labro both in Virginia and Paris
over the years. ‘‘He was extraordinarily
bright and original.’’

Labro said he has three ‘‘good’’ friends
in America. Riegel and Davis are two of
them.

‘*They were fantastically great teachers,
bringing your creativity out. They could see
I was a lost, forlorn young man,”’ he said,
so they helped him. ‘“They became surrogate
fathers or uncles. I love those people. I’m
grateful to them for all the things they taught
me... Thank God they remained good
friends.”’

The two men ‘‘shaped’’ him, Labro said
in a 1969 interview with the Alumni
Magazine, ‘‘not only in writing and a way
of looking at things and people, but in
behavior, in manners, in morals, in
language—everything.’’

Riegel and his wife, Jane, visited Labro
in September, just after the novel had been
published, and had the opportunity to read
the book.

Riegel characterizes The Foreign. Student
as a gentle, affectionate remembrance of
Washington and Lee, which is true to the
school’s mores and rituals at that time. Many
characters in the book seem to be composites
of personalities around the school at that
time, Riegel notes.

Some old friends and local characters
have their real names in the French edition
of the book. Those names will be changed
for the English version, Labro said.

| ee went from W&L to build a promi-
nent career in French newspapers, radio, and
television. He was in the United States in
1963 to do a story for a French television
news program when President John F. Ken-
nedy was assassinated, and he was the first

W&L 9

French reporter to arrive in Dallas to cover
the shooting.

He had a monthly television news pro-
gram years ago and was a prominent
newspaper columnist. Now he is general
manager of RTL (Radio Tele Lexembourg),
one of the foremost radio networks in
Europe.

Labro has written six books, including
three novels. And he has written and directed
seven films, which have starred such famous
French actors as Yves Montand, Jean Paul
Belmondo, and Jean Louis Trintignant.

About 1969, Labro came to Rockbridge
County to shoot some scenes for one of his
movies, Don’t Be Blue. He used a local
cemetery, a truck stop, and a radio station
as locations for the film. He even cast his two
mentors, Riegel and Davis, in scenes that
were shot in the area.

In addition to that visit, Labro has been
back to W&L several other times, once for
a 1970 film festival and three years later for
Riegel’s retirement party.

He plans to return again, this time to
celebrate The Foreign Student with his Lex-

ington friends, maybe in the spring of 1988,
for the 30th reunion of his old buddies from
the class of ’58.

By that time, the English version of The
Foreign Student ought to be available. And
perhaps the movie version will even be
underway.

As Labro said, referring to the craziness
that accompanies filmmaking: ‘‘One day,
you will see a movie crew come onto the
campus—and then everyone there will hate
me for writing this novel.’’

That hardly seems likely.

10

pring meant folding back the convertible tops and

speeding off with the wind in our hair toward

Goshen Pass to soak our feet in the icy waters of a
trout stream. Spring meant that the men’s store, Neal W.
Lowitz, sold the most stylish and capricious students yellow
straw hats with black bands, Bermuda shorts of
multicolored madras and red cummerbunds to go with the
cream-colored tuxedos they would wear at the fancy spring
ball that everyone was already talking about; the ball
would last all night long and Jimmy Dorsey’s big band was
coming.

Spring meant that the black cherry trees blossomed with
white flowers, though not as white as the dogwood, the of-
ficial Virginia state flower, and not as white as the
hawthorn or the honeysuckle or the giant magnolias. The
redbud, also typical of the Shenandoah Valley, bloomed
with tiny pinkish-purple flowers. The smell of tulip trees
and cucumber trees permeated the campus. Some mornings,
when the odors were too strong, you could see a few
seniors sprawled on the light green grass in their thin, white
and blue Haspel cord suits, their heads on a pile of books
and notebooks, staring up at the sky, and they knew that
graduation day was fast approaching and, in a few months,
after receiving their diplomas, they would leave this blessed
enclave forever. And so, at one with the earth and the
grass, with the balmy odors and the sky, they were basking
in these splendors that would not last for long.

The radio was playing the latest hit tunes, matching the
mood of the times: Sinatra crooning ‘‘The Tender Trap,’’
‘‘Unchained Melody’’ by Roy Hamilton, who had already
hit the charts with ‘‘Don’t Let Go,’’ probably the first rock
and roll song ever recorded in hi-fi stereo, and also
‘‘Memories Are Made of This,’’ nonchalantly thrown by an
Italo named Dean Martin:

*‘Memories are made of this. . .

It was a nice and catchy tune.

Fringed hammocks began to appear on front porches.
Election posters inviting students to choose the next student
body president were discreetly taped to the red brick walls
around campus. From the playing fields across the ravine
you could hear the crack of bats hitting baseballs, the
‘*‘nlock’’ of tennis rackets and the slap of lacrosse sticks.
The Sazerac Club, 28 boys who had formed a chorale the
previous fall and had had no success at all, was now at-
tracting standing-room-only crowds, as if the students and
their dates, the professors and their wives had felt a sudden

+3

W&L

need to receive more music and to receive it in a crowd.

To this poignant beauty, in which I was completely im-
mersed, came the added satisfaction of my blossoming
studies. | was finally beginning to master all of the
subtleties of the language and beginning to understand the
value of the courses | had been encouraged to take upon
my arrival. The dean, Old Zack, and his professors in
liberal arts and in journalism had chided us through a pro-
gram full of challenges and experimentation. Tolerance was
the key word: we did what we wanted to do. We created
our own radio shows and broadcast them during off-peak
hours at the local station. We adapted short stories into
scenarios. The Ring-tum Phi, a little four-page news sheet
that we printed ourselves in the basement of Reid Hall, had
been entirely entrusted to us, and I had assumed a position
there with the sonorous title of assistant editor. The history
of the great battles of the Civil War had helped me truly
understand the terrible rift between the North and the
South, and in Economic Policy 101, I was able to report
on the consequences of the great drought in Oklahoma in
the 30s.

I could call by name everyone | passed and greeted
along the Colonnade. The number of students was smail
enough that, after six months, | knew all of their faces. I
was one of them.

I belonged—that was the word they used on campus.
To belong, to be part of the student ‘‘body.’’ Even if I
wasn’t just like them. But the differences, formerly a han-
dicap, had now become my trump card. I was in-
discriminately invited to all of the fraternities, even though
I wasn’t a member of any of them. The professors’ wives
took pleasure in inviting this young foreign student who
had fit so well into the university mold and whose French
lessons had filled their otherwise tedious afternoons. Now |
could profit from my uniqueness. You learn how to please.
You enjoy being part of the scene. You take advantage of
a situation that gives foreigners the equivalent of those ac-
tors whose importance only becomes evident three-quarters
of the way through the play. Their newness, stemming
from their very obscurity in the preceding acts, distin-
guishes them from the other players. I had been there since
the fall, but suddenly now, in the spring, they were all
discovering me and I was taking great pleasure from it.
L’Etudiant etranger, pp. 193-195. Reprinted with permission of the

author. Translated by John Lambeth for Washington and Lee
University.

 

Lord, Keep Us Fit

 

No Matter the Sport, Norm Lord’s Goal Is the Same

 

By Brian D. Shaw

 

 

M onday, 9 a.m. A harsh sun sprays the
ancient wood floor of Doremus Gym with
an intense glare. Students, their last names
scrawled in black magic marker across the
front of their gray T-shirts, mill about,
discussing in muffled tones the weekend’s
events and upcoming exams.

A man, hunkered down and appearing
shorter than he is, wheels into the gym. He
is carrying a clipboard in his left hand. A
whistle hanging from his neck is neatly
secured in the left pocket of his white sport
shirt. Shorts with large pockets, white socks,
running shoes, and a baseball cap complete
the outfit.

Out comes the whistle. The ensuing blasts
echo off the walls of old Doremus like a
pistol shot in a metal barrel. The students
stop and turn their attention to the man with
the whistle.

‘*All right, all right,’’ he bellows in a
voice that booms louder than the whistle.
*‘Let’s get started.’’

The students are divided into teams and
begin to play three simultaneous games of
volleyball. The man calls the names of four
students and summons them to the running
track that circles the second floor of the gym.
The four had missed class the first day after
the Thanksgiving vacation. Now they have
make-up work to do.

Above the shouts of the games below and
the thump of volleyballs, the four are given
their instructions: run full speed around the
track four times, do five push-ups and five
sit-ups, and run in place until the whistle
blows. Then they must continue that same
cycle until they are told to stop.

On the court below, the volleyball games
heat up and the man offers tips, admoni-
tions, and encouragement from the second-
floor balcony as the four students run
around him. The sounds of the games, the
shouts of the man, and the pounding of
students’ feet create a din that calls to mind
chaos. But this class is anything but chaotic.
Every minute is planned by the man with the
whistle. Every exercise is carefully conceiv-
ed and carried out with one principle in
mind: total fitness.

Welcome to Physical Education 160:
Skills in Volleyball. Instructor: Norman F.
Lord.

W&L 11

 

May ome facts you should know about Norm
Lord.

© He is 67 years old. He says he will retire
at age 70 ‘‘unless I am fired first.’’

e Yes, his nickname is ‘‘Stormin’ Nor-
man.’’ His stationery tells you so.

¢ He is tied with Buford S. Stephenson,
professor of German, for the record as the
two active faculty members who have been
at Washington and Lee the longest. Both
joined the faculty in 1946, although Lord
had a two-year leave while serving in the
Korean War.

e In his 38 years on the faculty, he has
never missed a day of class because of illness.

¢ He has a crooked smile, best revealed
when he makes a joke about himself.

e He has officiated every sport ‘‘except
horse polo and ice hockey.”’ He retired from
officiating in 1979.

¢ He is corny. (More on that later.)

e He doesn’t know the meaning of
‘‘monotone.”’

¢ He is a fitness fanatic.

I, it were not for the nets and balls, one
would have difficulty distinguishing Lord’s
Skills in Volleyball class from his Skills in
Squash class, his Skills in Aerobic Running
class, or his Skills in Racquetball class. The
similarities between these different classes are
obviously not because of the sports; the
similarities are because of Lord himself.

While he does teach the basic skills re-
quired to master those various sports, Lord
also demands—primarily demands—that
each student in every class be (or become)
physically fit. Students who sign up for a
squash class expecting a leisurely hour of the
sport are surprised—sometimes shocked—
to find they will be required to run a 440-yard
dash for time, do a prescribed number of sit-
ups, push-ups, and pull-ups in a prescribed
time, perform a standing broad jump for
distance, and see how far they can run in 12
minutes.

Once all these exercises—unrelated to the
skills of the sport being taught—are perform-
ed, students are graded and classified on
Lord’s own unique system. The classifica-
tions range from ‘‘Varsity’’ to ‘‘Better see
a doctor’”’ and ‘‘I need Coach Lord’s help.”’
Lord distributes different colored shoelaces
to the students to indicate their membership
in the different categories. Throughout the
term the students are encouraged to improve
their performance in the exercises in order
to move up in the categories and upgrade
their shoelaces.

Lord’s ‘‘Self Testing Program’’ is based
entirely on his abiding interest in promoting
physical fitness. His entire life he has
subscribed to a regimen that promotes

12) W&L

 

 

fitness. He only wishes his students would
do the same.

‘‘T have noticed over the years that
students are getting weaker rather than
stronger,’’ Lord says in his brusque, fast-
talking manner. ‘‘It’s because of society.
They drive everywhere; they ride elevators
instead of walking up steps; they watch too
much TV’ (parents should ‘‘put an ax
through the damn thing,’’ Lord says). ‘“The
ordering of priorities is off.’’

Lord’s lament seems a bit ironic consider-
ing the fitness fad that appears to exist these
days with the burgeoning health club in-
dustry, the proliferation of joggers and
bikers and hikers, and the pages upon pages
of fancy exercise equipment found in most
mail-order catalogues.

But Lord is referring specifically to to-
day’s student generation. And he supports
his claim with facts. He keeps records of how
students perform in each event on his Self

Testing Program from year to year. Witha
few individual exceptions, the scores in the
program tend to be lower now than they were
10 years ago.

‘Fitness has changed,’’ Lord says.
‘*There is no emphasis put on the body by
the students. There are guys in my classes
who can do only one pull-up.’’ Lord shakes
his head in dismay, if not disbelief.

To get his students fit and to keep their
interest level high, Lord relies on blatant gim-
mickry. He admits his tactics are ‘‘corny and
crazy, but they work. And I don’t mind be-
ing a little crazy.”’

The four students whom Lord pulled out
of his volleyball class for their make-up work
had missed the traditional Oxidation Day
routine—one of those corny, crazy tactics
that he uses on the students’ first day back
from a vacation. The idea, Lord says, ‘‘is to
get the glop out of their systems’’ after a holi-
day or break. After each set of exercises,

 

Lord checks the students’ pulses to assure
that their rates have been raised to the desired
level to promote oxidation.

Then there is Lord’s Potluck Day. That
is when students blindly choose an exercise
by drawing from a hat. Among the instruc-
tions students receive on the slips of paper
they draw are the following: play three sets
of tennis, play a halfcourt basketball game
(report the names of the players and the team
scores!), play 18 holes of ‘‘Billy Graham
golf’’ (dress in sweatsuit, carry one club, jog
between strokes. Object is sweat not score.
Run, run, run), walk/jog the seven miles to
Buena Vista on the Chessie Trail, saw a half-
cord of wood, rake leaves for one hour at
home during Thanksgiving, or help your
Mom in the kitchen during Thanksgiving.

Lord advocates diversity in any exercise
program because, he says, ‘‘fitness is dif-
ferent for everyone. It’s different for a den-
tist and a bricklayer. It’s different for the
students. I try to relate that you have to be
fit for life. You have to be fit for your job
and for your life outside your job.’’

Of all the exotic gimmicks Lord uses,
perhaps the one most feared by his students
is the Tombstone Tourney. As the name sug-
gests, it is a gruelling marathon event. In
squash, for example, Lord will divide his
class into teams of three players each for the
Tombstone Tourney. The teams then play
continuously for three hours in round-robin
competition. Each team must have a player
on the court at all times during the tourna-
ment. If only one or two players per team
show up, then the player or players must con-
tinue throughout the entire tournament.

As with other Lord inventions, the
Tombstone Tourney is designed to promote
conditioning and fitness and not necessarily
to produce national champion squash
players.

**T stole all my philosophy from Knute
Rockne,’’ Lord unabashedly admits.
“*You’ve got to do something different every
day to keep them motivated.”’

Lord himself has no problems with
motivation. An avid hiker and climber, he
proudly states that he has ‘‘climbed every
mountain around here.’’ His House Moun-
tain Run—a 4.4-mile trek up (and down) one
of Rockbridge County’s most prominent
landmarks—is a requirement in the aerobic
running class and has reached near-legend
Proportions among students. Lord still plays
racquetball and, until a few years ago, played
a ferocious game of handball.

Lord is a 1943 graduate of the Universi-
ty of Delaware, where he played four years
Of varsity football and was a four-year
member of the track and field team, serving
as its captain during his senior year. He

 

 

 

played basketball for the Blue Hens as a
freshman and had a brief wrestling career,
which ended when the coach asked that he
shed 20 pounds to compete in a lighter weight
division.

Lord, who also holds a master’s degree
from Springfield College, joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1946 after
serving in the 11th Airborne Division of the
U.S. Army during World War II. As a col-
lege athlete, Lord had kept himself in ex-
cellent physical condition. It was, however,
during his Army days that he became so
keenly aware of the importance of physical
fitness for everyone—that is, for non-athletes
as well as athletes. After completing his tour
of duty in Korea, he maintained his ties to
the military by joining the Army Reserve. He
retired after 26 years with the rank of
colonel.

Acting as a consultant, Lord has
prepared several studies for the Army dur-
ing sabbatical leaves from the University.
One study, conducted in East Germany and
Czechoslovakia, examined the effects on
soldiers of mandatory participation in sports
and fitness activities. Lord’s most recent
study, completed in 1985, examined the
‘Needs and Interests of Soldiers at Remote
Sites.”’

For this latter study, Lord traveled to
remote U.S. military posts in Germany,
Italy, Belgium, Greece, the Netherlands, and
Great Britain. His number one recommen-
dation to relieve boredom at those sites was
the installation of fitness trails—running
trails with stations to perform various
exercises.

 

Since his arrival at Washington and Lee,
Lord has served as an athletic department
**Jack of all trades, but master of none.’’ In
addition to his regular teaching duties, he has
coached soccer, cross country, track and
field, and freshman wrestling, and has serv-
ed one year as assistant basketball coach. He
was director of intramural sports from 1946
to 1950.

Lord’s meticulous itineraries for team
trips when he was athletic department
business manager remain models of planning
and time. He has also been the ticket
manager for the athletic department.

Before he retired as an official, Lord was
practically a fixture at athletic contests up
and down the Shenandoah Valley and
throughout western Virginia. He is the reci-
pient of the Walt Cormak Track and Field
Award and the Virginia Coaches Associa-
tion’s Public Service Award.

Even now Lord can be found with a
starter’s pistol in his hand at W&L track and
field and cross country meets. His ability to
keep a track meet moving along on time is
a masterpiece of efficiency.

While coaching, officiating, and carry-
ing out other duties in the athletic depart-
ment, Lord has remained dedicated to
teaching the principles of fitness to his
students. He knows his reputation as a tough
taskmaster has scared some students away
from his classes. That doesn’t bother him.

**T always get one or two who drop out,”’
he says, shrugging his shoulders. ‘‘But there
are others who want to take my classes.”’

**T had heard all the rumors that Coach
Lord would push you to the limit and a lot
of people didn’t make it,’’ says Brian Fagan,
a senior from Atlanta who wound up with
red (second highest level) shoelaces while tak-
ing Lord’s Skills in Racquetball class during
the fall term. ‘‘Physical fitness is at the top
of his mind. He wants his classes to know
what it is to be physically fit and how to
achieve it.”’

The class, said Fagan, was as hard as
predicted. ‘‘He pushes us, but I enjoyed it.”’

M onday, 9:45 a.m. The whistle signals
the end of the Skills in Volleyball class for
this day. The four freshly oxidized students
are leaning on the second floor balcony, huf-
fing and puffing.

Lord congratulates the students for their
performance in class despite his earlier ad-
monition to some of the volleyball players
that ‘‘you look like you’ve got mono-
nucleosis.’’ The students file off to the locker
rooms for showers. Lord turns.

**Some of them really hate my guts,’’ he
says, the crooked smile beaming. ‘‘Others,
well... ”’

W&L = 13

Think Fitness,
Then Try It

 

Some Pointers on a Fitness Program,

Courtesy of Norm Lord

 

14

W&L

 

L, the world according to Norm Lord, everyone is physically fit.
But since that is not the case in reality, Lord advocates that
everyone get in shape. And the best way to accomplish that, Lord
says, is to begin a workout of walking and running designed to
exercise the cardiovascular system. What follows is a little Lord
fitness philosophy and a basic walking and jogging workout. As
Stormin’ Norman says, though, be sure to see a physician before
you begin ANY exercise program:

If you want to add years to your life AND life to your years,
think about trying to get back into shape.

Even if you think you are in shape, you may not be. In a re-
cent Duke University medical study, many who thought they
were physically fit were unable to pass a treadmill test, i.e., ‘‘walk-
ing on a treadmill as speed and slope were increased.’’ The most
fit could ‘‘treadmill’’ for 18 minutes, while the least fit could go
only one minute.

Perhaps this mental challenge about your fitness level will en-
courage you to search for the truth. First, though, you must get
an appointment with your family physician to get the green light
to start an exercise program. Your physician may also want you
to take a stress test.

To improve your physical fitness in general and your heart and
lung fitness in particular, you should participate in an aerobic
fitness program, i.e., walking/hiking, jogging/running, swimming,
cross-country skiing, cycling, and/or aerobic dancing.

The activity or combination of activities that you select will
depend on your own preference and the advice of your family physi-
cian who has your complete medical history. You should be sure
to select an aerobic activity you enjoy.

The most practical way to start a fitness program is to follow
an old axiom: ‘‘Get off your seat and on your feet.’’ All you need
is a good pair of walking shoes. Walking is an all-over exercise

 

—

if you walk briskly as if you’re going
someplace, i.e., with purpose and abandon.

After walking progressively longer
distances five or six times per week for
periods of 15 to 45 minutes for a span of six
weeks, your body will become toughened and
highly toned. It is now time to try jogging.
You will need a good pair of jogging shoes
and other gear that is comfortable for the
climate in which you are jogging.

A myriad of structural, physiological,
and psychological changes will occur in your
body. Your sense of well-being and self-
esteem changes (euphoric index), all body
functions improve, some of your body fat
is burned, you get better muscle tone, and
your physique changes. AND, YOU CAN
EVEN THINK MORE CLEARLY! (Sound
body, sound mind concept.)

Here are some key points to remember:

v Wear running shorts that are loose-
fitting in the thighs and crotch. Wear a light-
colored, comfortable sleeveless shirt or
T-shirt. A cap is recommended in extremely hot weather;

~ In extremely cold weather wear mittens or sweat socks to
protect your hands; a lightweight, long-sleeve all-wool or part-wool
undergarment; a light-colored sweatsuit with hood; a wool cap
and/or stocking type cap or ear muffs to protect your ears and
a ski headband or mask to protect your face and nose;

v Always warm up. Do five to 10 minutes of stretching,
limbering-up exercises (heel cord and hamstrings must be slowly
stretched). Also some push-ups, sit-ups, and squat-thrusts. Then,
jog/walk for five to 10 minutes before starting your workout;

v Always cool down. After your workout it is absolutely
necessary to cool down with a walk/jog for a minimum of five
minutes. Then do your stretching exercises for five minutes;

v Pick a time, place, distance, and speed that you plan to
jog/run;

v AsSaminimum, you should jog/run three times per week,
and the length of each workout should be 15 to 30 minutes;

~ Log in the time of day, date, place, and speed of your
jog/run. Do this every time you work out;

v~ At the end of each week, add up total miles, and keep an
aggregate total by week for the entire year. (You’ll be surprised
by your total);

~ How far you jog will depend on your fitness level. Gradually
increase the distance you jog and reduce the distance you walk.
As a starter, jog 110 yards, walk 55 yards, and repeat this interval
for 20 minutes. The second week increase the jog to 220 yards but
walk only 55 yards. As you feel less winded or tired, move up to
330 yards of jogging and 55 yards of walking and then to 440 yards
(or one full lap around a quarter-mile track) followed by 55 yards
of walking;

~ When you are able to jog one and a half miles without walk-
ing, time yourself for the one and a half mile test. If you can
jog/run one and a half miles in 12 minutes, you should set a higher
goal. Progress slowly to this new goal. You may need four to six
weeks to meet this new self-test;

~ Get into the habit of taking your pulse, either in your wrist
or neck, immediately after each workout before you cool down.
If you consider yourself physically fit, your target heart rate should
qual 220 minus your age multiplied by .85. Use .75 as the multiplier
if you are not physically fit and .60 if you are overweight and/or

 

Among Norm Lord’s recommendations for fitness workouts is pulse-taking to determine the
effectiveness of the aerobic activity.

smoke. Try to get yourself to your target heart rate for each
workout. Also, get into the habit of taking your resting pulse once
per week before you get out of bed or after sitting for a period
of 30 to 45 minutes. Record your resting pulse in your log each
week. You will discover that as your fitness level improves, your
resting pulse rate will go down;

v Weigh yourself once each week and record your weight in
your log. You will find that running will help control your weight.
For each mile that you run, you burn up calories based on your
body weight. To determine your per-mile caloric burn-off rate,
multiply your body weight by .72;

~ Never run outside during a thunderstorm;

~ Never work out in a rubber jacket or sweatsuit;

vw Never work out when the temperature is extremely high
(above 90 degrees in apparent temperature) or extremely low (25
degrees below with the wind chill factored in);

v If you ever feel dizzy from sweating, stop immediately and
drink plenty of water and cool down with a cold shower;

v Don’t drink fruit juices, soft drinks, or alcoholic beverages
immediately after a workout. Water is best;

wv When possible, work out before eating. Determine which
time is most compatible to your system. Try a sunrise run, a pre-
lunch run, a pre-supper run, and a moonlight or after 10 p.m. run.
Each is different and memorable;

yv Try variety. Run different courses when possible. Run with
a friend. Try conversational running (talk to a friend while run-
ning). Try coed running. Try slow long-distance running. Try in-
crement running, i.e., run 10 steps, walk 10 steps; run 20 steps,
walk 10 steps; increase your running 10 steps each time until you
reach 100 steps. Then go downward, decreasing your steps or run-
ning from 100 steps, then 90 steps, etc., down to zero;

~ Don’t let rain, sleet, or snow keep you from your workout.
Occasionally substitute your workout for a session in the weight
room, several sets of tennis, a round of golf (walk, don’t ride),
working in the’yard, or some other form of exercise to boost your
heart rate;

v If you experience sore knees, ankles, feet, or shins, see an
athletic trainer or doctor. The best remedy is to change your dosage
to include rest. Replace your workout with calisthenics or
swimming.

W&L 15

An Uncommon Pursuit

 

Stages with Hits

ing

, 56, Fill

iggan

By Jeffery G

New York Producer Jack McQu

 

Hanna

oinvs “q woyjiy &q ojoyd saul yIoX Man

 

W&L

16

 

N EW YORK—You start with an empty stage. And what you
do is fill it. You fill it with actors and actresses, sets and props,
lines and lyrics, laughter and tears. Then you unlock the theatre
doors and you wait in the wings and you listen for the applause.

For John A. (Jack) McQuiggan, ’56, the applause has been
steadily increasing in both regularity and intensity during the past
several years.

First there was Quartermaine’s Terms, the Simon Gray play
that won eight Obie Awards and was named one of the ‘‘Ten Best
Plays of 1983’’ by the New York Times.

Then there was The Foreigner, which opened to dreadful
reviews in November 1984 but which had won two Obies and two
Outer Critics’ Circle Awards when it finally closed after 21 months.

Now there is The Common Pursuit, another Simon Gray play
that opened in October and received the kind of reviews a pro-
ducer can usually only dream of receiving. ‘‘At last, a real play
has managed to reach New York!’’ wrote the New York Daily
News. ‘‘A spellbinding new play!’’ exclaimed the New York Post.
‘*A play of emotional density, full of comedy and wit,’’ said the
New York Times.

Three decades ago he was acting on the stage of Washington
and Lee’s Troubadour Theatre. Today, with those three consecutive
productions to his credit, Jack McQuiggan is widely recognized
as one of New York’s most successful producers. This is not the
story of an overnight success, however. Between Lexington and
New York, McQuiggan has paid his dues. The road to Broadway—
or, in this instance, off-Broadway—wound through such cities as
Milwaukee and Providence. But finally, ultimately, there was New
York.

‘*T love to put form into space,’’ McQuiggan says. ‘‘You see
that empty stage and you fill it. You put form into it.

‘*And I think my goal all along was to produce plays in New
York. But I had to get in position to do that. Being in position
to get the money and the scripts and the contacts comes from years
of working in theatre. But now that I’ve done it and it’s gone well,
that’s what I’ll continue to do.”’

J . G. Melon, an upper West Side restaurant, is filled with a com-
bination of theatregoers discussing the merits of the newest off-
Broadway play and New York Mets fans watching the fifth game
of the World Series on the television.

Jack McQuiggan is keeping one eye on the Mets’ progress (con-
spiratorially confessing that he is actually a Cincinnati Reds fan)
as he describes how a doctor’s son from the southwest Ohio town
of Xenia wound up producing hit plays in New York City.

Only a half hour earlier and a half block away, the Promenade
Theatre lights had gone down on the fifth performance of McQuig-
gan’s latest production, The Common Pursuit. Although it has
run less than a week, the consensus is that The Common Pursuit
is, aS One reviewer declared, ‘‘uncommonly good.’’

McQuiggan is relieved by the positive response; he is not sur-
prised, however—at least no more surprised than ever.

‘You always have doubts, but you just keep going. You have
to trust your instincts,’’ McQuiggan says. ‘‘I never have doubts
on the material. But a play goes through a funny kind of period
of gestation. There comes a time when you don’t think anything
is there. Then all of a sudden it begins to appear. It’s like giving
birth.”’

McQuiggan has suffered, but survived (and usually even thrived
upon) these familiar pains of creation countless times, beginning
when he was a teenager who spent the summers working at the
Shakespeare festival at Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio,
just a few miles from his Xenia home.

He brought that keen interest in the theatre to Washington and
Lee where he majored in history but spent many hours at the
Troubadour.

*‘The theatre was a fairly minor part of college life then,’’
remembers McQuiggan, who was president of the Troubadours
during his senior year. ‘‘I don’t believe we had any courses in
drama.

“‘But it did give me an opportunity to get involved in all aspects
of theatre, the overall production—from acting to directing. I do
remember performing in Detective Story, for instance. And, it may
seem hard to believe this now, but I wrote and directed a minstrel
show in 1956. It was called The Deevine Comedy. The show wasn’t
making fun of anything; it was just recreating a minstrel show more
or less for history’s sake.”’

As he reflects on those days now, McQuiggan finds that he is
apt to remember his European history courses with Professor
William Jenks more vividly than his performances on the
Troubadour stage.

“*I’m very happy that I got the background I did before I went
into the theatre,’’ he says. ‘‘To be honest, I’m not crazy about
drama majors in undergraduate colleges. I think the best thing you
can do is get a very solid liberal arts background and maybe a lit-
tle fine arts and some economics—a little economics never hurts.”’

It was after he left Washington and Lee that McQuiggan began
to pursue theatre in earnest. He went straight to New York and
studied acting at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of Theatre.

**I only studied acting to get the background, which has been
invaluable as a producer. I did do some acting, but it was purely
for the hell of it,’’ he says. ‘‘I had no talent as an actor and was
willing to recognize that.’’

Rather than appearing in front of the lights, McQuiggan wanted
to make sure the lights came up every night. His first real produc-
tion experience was with the Association of Producing Artists
(APA) Repertory Company in New York. Along with Ellis Rabb
and Rosemary Harris, he was a founder and later producing direc-
tor of that famed company and was involved in more than 25 of
its productions.

From there he went to Milwaukee and spent five years as the
producer of that city’s Fred Miller Theatre, which was to become
a prominent force in the burgeoning regional theatre movement.

It was there, in the non-profit, tax-exempt world of regional
theatre, that McQuiggan learned the ins and outs of filling empty
stages with plays.

*“What happens in non-profit theatre is that you never have
enough money,’’ says McQuiggan. ‘‘So you get used to, well, not
really cutting corners, but conserving. You learn where to spend
the money and where not to. You learn what you can do yourself
and what you have to turn over to others. You learn how to bargain
as though your life depends on it. I learned an enormous amount
from doing regional theatres. I am able to do commercial theatre
and keep costs way down because of my training in non-profit
theatre.’’

If McQuiggan profited from those five years in Milwaukee, it
was a two-way Street: theatre in that part of the country benefit-
ted immeasurably from his presence. Consider, for instance, the
note in a February 1964 issue of Time magazine: ‘‘Milwaukee’s
Fred Miller Theatre is battling the odds and winning. The odds
are Milwaukee itself, where the highest praise the drama critics
know how to give is to compare the Miller’s actors with the Green
Bay Packers. But the Miller Theatre is winning because of the ex-
traordinary energy of its 29-year-old director, John Alexander
McQuiggan.”’

From Milwaukee, McQuiggan went to the Trinity Square

W&L 17

 

Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., for a time and then back
to New York to the APA Repertory Company. He spent two years
at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington as director of develop-
ment for the performing arts division. Then it was back to New
York again to establish a firm called Arts Counterparts, which did
consulting work with the regional theatres that were popping up
all over the country.

That is what McQuiggan was doing in 1981 when he came upon
the script of Quartermaine’s Terms.

‘‘Until that point, I was pretty much wedded to the regional
theatre. But I thought it was time for me to move out of the non-
profit theatre into commercial theatre,’’ says McQuiggan. “‘I went
to Simon Gray and his agent and said that I wanted to do Quarter-
maine’s Terms. But I told them that I wanted to do it off-
Broadway. I was in competition with a group that wanted to do
it on Broadway. I convinced Simon Gray and his agent that they
shouldn’t do it on Broadway, that Broadway isn’t right for that
kind of play any more. They accepted my argument, and that’s
how I got hold of it.’’

O..- a producer has a certifiable hit in New York (and the eight
Obie Awards for Quartermaine’s Terms were certainly certifica-
tion), life begins to get a bit easier. That, at least, is the way it’s
supposed to work. And it did for McQuiggan. More or less.

After Quartermaine’s Terms completed its successful off-
Broadway run, McQuiggan turned his attention to a play titled
The Foreigner, a comedy that featured, among other things, Ku
Klux Klansmen, a shotgun marriage, and a disputed inheritance.

When The Foreigner opened with its previews, the audiences
laughed in all the right places. McQuiggan figured he had a sec-
ond straight hit. Then came the New York premiere and the New
York reviews. Suddenly no one connected with The Foreigner was
laughing much. The reviewers had chosen their adjectives careful-
ly. The play, they wrote, was ‘“‘silly’’ and ‘‘labored.’’ Those were
among the least negative comments. McQuiggan knew he had a
fight on his hands.

‘*T knew that the play was enormously funny. I knew that. And
I knew that it was innately extremely charming, too. And put those
two together with a bit of sentimentality, which people love, and
what we really had was a situation comedy that was farcical,’’
McQuiggan says. ‘‘It was too sentimental to be a strict farce and
too farcical to be a strict comedy.

‘*I knew the audiences loved The Foreigner, and I mean a wide
spectrum of the audience, not just a select portion. And I knew
it had a big audience out there. The fact that the critics didn’t like
it, well, we could go on and debate forever the reasons for that.

‘*But when that sort of thing happens, you fight. That’s all you
can do. You just fight.”’

The battle was uphill. The enthusiastic audiences of the previews
were replaced by empty seats after the negative reviews began ap-
pearing. That, in turn, translated into heavy losses. There were
other problems. At the end of the first week the female lead died
suddenly. The very next night the theatre’s boiler exploded. At one

point a closing notice was posted backstage. All the while, McQuig-

gan continued to fight.

The boiler could be repaired; another actress could be cast in
the lead. The real question was whether McQuiggan could find
enough support—financial support as well as audience support—
to keep the play alive.

‘*It was a real underground campaign,”’’ he says. ‘‘First of all
we got a loan from a Texan for $60,000, which we have since paid
off plus interest. We went to cocktail parties. We put flyers in the
subways. We did buttons. We promoted like crazy. And then we

18 W&L

did what I think was a wildly good television commercial, which
helped a great deal.”’

The Foreigner ran 21 months. When it closed, it had run longer
than any other play in New York at that time. Productions had
already begun to pop up literally all over the world (‘‘I’ve heard
of performances from USOs in Berlin to dinner theatres in Idaho,”’
McQuiggan says). Disney Studios had bought the film rights. Jack
McQuiggan’s role in saving the production had been featured in
the New York Times.

“‘T believed in The Foreigner, just as I believe in any play that
I do,’’ says McQuiggan. ‘‘And I hate to see one close. I mean,
that’s how I live.”’

That, McQuiggan readily admits, was not the way it had been
back in Milwaukee.

‘Regional theatres aren’t as critical as New York audiences and
New York critics. Most of them have built-in subsidies. They know
they’re going to make it,’’ says McQuiggan. ‘‘Here, boy, if you
don’t make it, you don’t do it. It’s tough.”’

Of course, McQuiggan has always lived with the reviews and
the reviewers.

The Dec. 4, 1953, edition of the Ring-tum Phi had this to say
about the performance of a Xenia, Ohio, sophomore in the
Troubadour Theatre production of Maxwell Anderson’s Winterset:
‘“‘The character of Trock is not a sympathetic one, but Jack
McQuiggan manages to bring him through to the end in good shape
in spite of some tough sledding in parts with a tendency to overact
and the lack of sufficient expression.”’

The reviews improved. About his performance as Charlie in
the Troubadours’ production of Detective Story, the Ring-tum Phi
called McQuiggan ‘‘the real scene stealer’’ who ‘‘goes from bit to
bit with the ease of a professional.’’ By his senior year that pro-
fessionalism was taken for granted. Of his performance in My
Three Angels the Ring-tum Phi wrote that McQuiggan had pro-
duced ‘‘his usual professional job, with added force and vitality.’’

J ack McQuiggan is the first to admit that New York theatre is
just not what it once was. He laments that fact but doubts it will
improve soon.

- One reason The Common Pursuit has drawn such strong sup-
port, McQuiggan contends, is that it is the ‘‘only real play’’ in New
York now.

‘‘People just don’t do plays anymore,’’ he says. ‘‘They do com-
mercial revues and musicals.

‘*It’s bad. It really is. The public wants big commercial musicals,
and that is what Broadway has become. Off-Broadway does plays
but rarely do you see a play that is done in a major off-Broadway
house by a major playwright. It’s just difficult unless you do a
play with a bunch of stars, which we just don’t have in the theatre.
There are a lot of good actors around who aren’t stars.”’

Once the ultimate goal of any producer or playwright, actor
or actress, was to make it to the Broadway stage. McQuiggan,
however, is not only content to work off-Broadway but argues per-
suasively that off-Broadway is where the good theatre is being done
in New York these days.

The Common Pursuit is playing at a 399-seat off-Broadway
theatre and, except for the upper West Side address, there would
hardly be any way to distinguish between this play and those done
in the big Broadway houses.

‘‘The production values of this play are on a par with any
Broadway play you'll see,’’ says McQuiggan. ‘‘Plays like The Com-
mon Pursuit will never be back in the big [Broadway] houses. It’s
just too expensive. You can’t find the stars to fill the seats. Or,
if you do get a couple of stars in a play, once they leave, the play

 

 

 

goes downhill right after that. The big difference today between
plays on Broadway and plays off-Broadway is that when a play’s
on Broadway, people ask, ‘Who’s in it?’ When a play is off-
Broadway, they ask, ‘What’s it about?’

‘*This play, like The Foreigner, is done with an ensemble cast.
The cast consists of five actors and one actress, all of whom are
equal. You can’t find six stars who can do this play. I don’t believe
in star theatre. A really good play cannot make it on just one star;
it has to be well cast all the way. You can have a star in a very
good play, I’m not saying you can’t. But a really tightly knit play
will benefit from a tightly knit ensemble group of actors. The
ensemble for The Common Pursuit is one of the best you’ll see.
And they’re all in service of the play, not of themselves.”’

But theatre today is also lacking in good material. McQuiggan
estimates that he reads between 50 and 60 plays every month. Most
are simply not worth the time.

**T think most of our potentially good playwrights are out mak-
ing lots of bucks writing for films and television,’’ he says. ‘‘And
some eras in our history lead to more plays than others. The com-
mon background of the Depression, for instance, is what leads to
[playwrights like] Arthur Miller and Clifford Odets and on and on.

‘‘T imagine if we had a crash. Let’s say the deficit came back
and haunted us and we had an economic crash, there would be
a lot of fodder for plays because everybody would have had this
common experience. Right now it’s a dead time in the theatre
because there is no common backdrop.”’

That makes McQuiggan’s job all the more difficult these days.
His search for a script with just the right elements is never-ending.
In Simon Gray, author of both Quartermaine’s Terms and The
Common Pursuit, McQuiggan has found a playwright whose scripts
invariably possess those elements. And Gray’s plays do sell tickets.

“‘’m not interested in doing theatre that is elitist,’’ says
McQuiggan. ‘‘But I am interested in doing really good work. Usual-
ly when I look at a play, I love what other people will love.

“You look for something that is structured like a play, that
has an innate conflict that leads to resolutions that are revealing

 

McQuiggan (right) is pictured with The
Common Pursuit playwright Simon
Gray (center) and play’s co-director
Michael McGuire (left).

and a play that, along the way, is either terribly funny or terribly
sad. Too, there has to be identification. The audience needs to iden-
tify with it and be moved by it—moved either to tears or to
laughter. And at the end of it, something has happened to the
audience—viscerally, physiologically, something has gone on.

‘“‘If I read a play and something happens to me, then I know
there’s a chance we can transfer that onto the stage.”’

McQuiggan is known as a creative producer. Unlike many of
his New York counterparts whose expertise and interest lie almost
entirely in raising the money and casting the roles, McQuiggan takes
considerable pride in being involved in every phase of a play’s
production.

The theatre, he says, is ‘‘a communal exercise.”’ It should not
be a matter of the creative people in one corner and the business
people in another.

‘‘We’re all in it together,’’ he says. ‘‘I get very much involved
in the whole process. I’ve taught acting so I understand all of that.
And I understand theatre hopefully from all sides. I’m very
possessive of my plays.”’

T he Common Pursuit was less than a week into its off-Broadway
run last October and McQuiggan was already looking ahead. He
has a play titled The World’s Smartest Man by a new playwright,
and he’s excited about the possibilities.

‘‘T may direct it. I’m not sure. I’d like to direct, and I think
I could direct this piece,’’ McQuiggan says. ‘‘I’ve got to be careful
that I don’t overextend myself.’’

To some extent he will be involved in producing the film ver-
sion of The Foreigner. But he can’t see himself being very much
involved in films, really.

‘It isn’t that I don’t want to go into films, but I wouldn’t know
where to start,’’ McQuiggan says. ‘‘This has kind of been my life.
If somebody told me to come to Hollywood and do a film, I
wouldn’t know what to do.’’

But give him an empty stage and tell him to fill it and Jack
McQuiggan will go right to work.

W&L 19

 

Bruce Herrick specializes in the economics of developing countries.

Poverty and Health

 

Examining Health Care Systems in Developing Nations

 

Tne ‘‘real estate developer’’ of the subur-
ban slum outside Guatemala City had
donated a piece of land for a health post. It
was at the outskirts of the neighborhood, on
the edge of a ravine. Access to the facility,
now four or five years old, had been partially
blocked when the developer sold off postage-
stamp-sized lots in what had been the

 

Bruce Herrick has been professor of economics
and head of the department at Washington and
Lee since 1980. His special area of research in-
volves the economics of developing nations. The
views expressed in this article are the author’s and
do not necessarily reflect the official positions of
the U.S. Agency for International Development,
the World Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank, or any agency of the Guatemalan govern-
ment. The photographs from Guatemala were
taken by Dr. Andrew Nichols.

20 W&L

By Bruce Herrick

Professor of Economics

driveway. Residents were now also living in
shacks on the steep slopes of the ravine below
the post. Urban growth, in short, had over-
whelmed earlier plans.

We arrived at 9 on a weekday morning.
The waiting room was crowded with mothers
and their children sitting on wooden benches
or standing in corners, waiting to see the doc-
tors. Many of them had been there for some
time; the children, except for the sickest
ones, were restless. Sidewalk vendors at-
tracted by the predictably large crowd had
taken their regular places around the en-
trance, selling candy and plastic toys. The
place resembled a human anthill.

We were expected, so we shouldered our
way inside. During the morning, we inter-
viewed members of the staff—doctors,

nurses, social workers, secretaries, extension
agents—perhaps a dozen in all. Because the
clinic specialized in pediatric problems, the
most common ailments were infant diarrhea
(usually associated with contaminated water
and absence of sanitation) and upper
respiratory complaints such as colds, flu, and
pneumonia. The health post, part of the
government’s Ministry of Health, also
engaged in immunization against childhood
diseases, family planning, and a well-baby
clinic. Average daily volume was at least 200
patient-visits per day.

Although the concrete block structure
with its corrugated tin roof was relatively
new, it was already showing signs of wear.
At one point, I pulled away from the others
in our party to talk with the caretaker who

 

 

was making tea for the staff. She had used
a dipper to fill the tea kettle with water from
an open 55-gallon drum. I asked her why she
didn’t use tap water. After all, each of the
examining rooms had a basin and her small
kitchen was equipped with a sink. ‘‘Oh,”’ she
told me, ‘‘we don’t have running water
here.”’

The pump that filled a rooftop storage
tank had been taken away for repairs. It had
been fixed weeks ago, but because the
ministry hadn’t paid for the repairs, it had
not been recovered by the post and re-
installed. Thus the post—this human anthill
of infectious and contagious diseases, many
of them capable of being spread by contact
between patients and between patients and
the physicians who were seeing them—was
seeking to improve local health conditions
without the running water that international
standards assume to be absolutely necessary.
A combination of lack of funds and ad-
ministrative shortcomings had made this
focal point for illness more a health hazard
than a site for better health.

Development Indicators

Economists recognize that improvements
in low-income countries cannot be adequate-
ly quantified by the thoughtless use of
economic measurements. Broad averages
such as income per capita may conceal as
much as they reveal. Accordingly economists
have increasingly focused, statistically and
substantively, on social as well as economic
change.

People who live in poor countries are
characteristically less educated (although not
less intelligent), less healthy, and less well
housed than residents of affluent in-
dustrialized societies. We do not study their
circumstances merely for intellectual uplift.
Most specialists in economic development are
also passionately concerned with the applica-
tion of their knowledge. They seek nothing
less than an improvement of the human
condition.

An important element in that condition
is clearly health. People who are chronical-
ly ill, in addition to having low productivity
in the marketplace, live lives of unnecessary
deprivation. Parents whose children die
prematurely (and who may realize that their
deaths could have been prevented) experience
profound and avoidable psychic pain.

The improvement of health conditions in
poor countries has always been desirable. It
may now be more readily achievable, owing
to advances in medical technology and public
health. It is no longer inevitable that between
100 and 200 infants out of every thousand
die before their first birthday. Medical

 

 

 

 

An official Guatemalan rural health technician stands in the doorway of his post in San Martin,
Sacatepequez. The motorcycle is his government-issued mode of transportation. The handmade
sign on the wall announces days when vaccinations will be given.

  

science has also eradicated classical scourges
such as smallpox and bubonic plague, and
has cut the mortality associated with
epidemic tropical diseases such as yellow
fever and malaria. For many diseases, sim-
ple preventive measures such as immuniza-
tion and insecticides have proved cost-
effective in saving lives and maintaining
economic productivity.

The mere existence of medical solutions,
however, does not guarantee that human be-
ings will in fact be saved. The effective
organization of medical care services requires

 

Medicines are sold from this one-room pharmacy in San Martin.

resources and talent. It demands a
knowledge not only of science but of
management—the presence not only of funds
but of a structure of incentives that
stimulates the application of scientific
advance.

Clearly health improvement relies,
therefore, on a variety of specialized
disciplines, beginning with pure biology, but
including as well applied fields such as
epidemiology, biostatistics, medical manage-
ment, and hospital administration, as well
as economics and finance. No one should im-

W&L 21

 

 

Members of a typical Guatemalan family, obviously of modest means, return to their home in a rural area of the country.

agine impatiently that simple solutions exist
for health problems in poor countries. To do
so reveals a regrettably superficial knowledge
of the real world—a degree of ignorance in-
appropriate for academician and practitioner
alike.

Guatemalan health

I turn now to Guatemala, the country in
which I have most recently conducted
research on the economics and finance of im-
proving health care. Last summer I was in-
vited to participate in a health sector assess-
ment by the U.S. Agency for International
Development. While in Guatemala I served
as health economist on a five-member team.
My colleagues on that team were a specialist
in community medicine from the University
of Arizona, a Mexican epidemiologist, a
Costa Rican medical logistician, and a
Guatemalan anthropologist.

Our task was to gather data and assess
the current condition of Guatemalan health
care. And although I will refer specifically
to Guatemala and my recent study there, I
am persuaded that generalizations growing
out of Guatemalan research are broadly ap-
plicable to other Third World nations.

Guatemala is a Missouri-sized Central
American country with about 8 million in-
habitants. A million and a half of those in-
habitants are concentrated in Guatemala
City, the capital, with the remainder scat-
tered across a landscape dramatic in its

22 W&L

topography, prone to earthquakes, and
marked by impressive volcanos and tropical
jungle.

The Guatemalan people reflect the
republic’s historical roots. Anthropologists
distinguish between the indigenous popula-
tion, descendants of the proud Maya culture
whose monuments especially in Yucatanian
Tikal are among the most impressive in the
world, and the Hispanic population that also
includes mestizos and Indians who have
adopted Hispanic cultural patterns and
values. Not surprisingly, the Indians, who
comprise about half the population, are
more dispersed and rural. They also speak
at least 23 mutually unintelligible languages.
These characteristics create obvious prob-
lems in providing them with even minimally
acceptable levels of health services.

Guatemala’s recent history also includes
a rural guerilla movement and a government-
sponsored counteraction that spawned tor-
ture and mass murder on a huge scale. As
in some other Latin American countries,
political assassination became an increasingly
popular method of dealing with political con-
flict, displacing more humane if not more
democratic methods.

Again, these characteristics have a direct
impact on health. For example, by some
estimates about half of the paramedical per-
sonnel trained during the last 10 years to
work in villages have been killed. Now no
one wants to sponsor, much less participate,
in such a program. Estimates also place

50,000 Guatemalans as refugees in Mexico’s
southern province of Chiapas, afraid to
return to their homes for fear of being iden-
tified as guerillas because of their decision
to flee. And on the Guatemalan side of the
border, ‘‘development poles’’ have been
established, equivalent in some ways to the
strategic hamlets used in Vietnam. In at least
some mountainous zones, the Army prevails
until afternoon fogs make helicopter opera-
tions impossible. After that, the guerillas are
in charge until the following day.
According to all accounts, conditions sur-
rounding organized violence have improved
since the democratic election last year of
Vinicio Cerezo, a centrist Christian
Democrat. The election followed procedures
established by the country’s constitution, a
document that had been composed during
the previous year by a democratically elected
constitutional convention. President Cerezo,
while refusing to indict military officers for
misconduct committed before he took office,
has disbanded a 600-man terror squad that
had been tolerated by the military juntas that
preceded him. Thus, although ‘‘common
delinquency’’ has increased, as indeed it has
in Washington and New York, officially
sanctioned human rights violations appear
to have decreased dramatically. In turn,
Guatemalans may be able to turn with fewer
distractions to remedying social problems,
including those involving health.
International agencies are not unmindful
(in the words of Washington and Lee’s of-

 

ficial motto) of the window of opportunity
that presents itself. The first democratic
government in more than 30 years is headed
by a man whose commitment to social im-
provement seems clear. The practical actors
in Guatemalan health, besides the Ministry
of Health and the independent Social Securi-
ty Institute, have been the U.S. Agency for
International Development (AID) and the
Inter-American Development Bank.

Approaches to health improvement can-
not, as I have mentioned, be one-
dimensional. Accordingly, one set of recom-
mendations for better health includes distinct
elements. Each of them takes into account
the complex problems involved in changing
long-established ways of life.

Effective recommendations must
recognize the political realities in any low-
income country. Different groups inside and
outside the government are served by dif-
ferent measures. International agencies fre-
quently have their own agendas, and are con-
vinced that their own experience provides
reliable guidance for the future. Unfor-
tunately, the international experience of the
agencies differs, as do their organization
charts and their funding sources. According-
ly, the influential actors do not always pull
in the same direction, despite their mutual
desire to ‘‘do good.’’

Improving Guatemalan health

A strategy for health improvement might
include the following elements. Note that
these considerations apply not only in
Guatemala, but elsewhere as well.

1. Incentive-based. Social scientists and
students of management are convinced that
people respond to external incentives as well
as to internal notions of desirable behavior.
Thus health professionals, for example, need
pay and praise in addition to appropriate
professional training. The public, in turn,
must be convinced that health-seeking
behavior such as immunization and hygiene
serves their own narrowly conceived interests
as well as being good for the community.

2. Multi-institutional. Systems delivering
health care are far from monolithic. In
Guatemala, they include the Ministry of
Health, the Social Security Institute,
hospitals associated with both these agencies,
the public and private universities training
medical personnel, private doctors and their
hospitals and clinics, and at least 200 private
voluntary organizations both foreign and
domestic.

This list is a long one. Ideally these agen-
cies should be motivated to cooperate. They
could thus avoid life-threatening gaps and
wasteful duplication in providing services. At

 

Protesters in Guatemala City display signs on which photographs of missing friends and relatives
are displayed. One of the sign’s captions calls for universal rights while another asks ‘‘Where do
they have our aunt?’’

present, a coordinating National Health
Council exists on paper, but does not
function.

Less officially, the ministry’s hospitals
have established cooperative schemes with
the medical schools to staff health posts with
advanced medical students and to refer dif-
ficult cases to the hospitals. But these
schemes have not yet spread to cover the na-
tion as a whole. Because it is a Guatemalan
initiative, one might be hopeful that it could
be used as a replicable model. Extending
inter-agency cooperation to under-served
rural areas should head the list of health care
priorities. It can accomplish what no single
agency can do on its own.

3. Community-oriented. If health care
delivery is to be effective, it has to be decen-
tralized. It must focus on the local villages
in which the majority of the people live and
it must be responsive to their particular
needs, not to the health needs of people and
planners in the capital city.

Organizational centralization is a pattern
seen in every developing country, and indeed
to a certain extent in the United States too.
The numbers of professionals trained in the
public administration of health care are
limited; most of them prefer to live in
Guatemala City; inadequate and distasteful
working and living conditions in the field
may indeed have spurred the civil servants
to educate themselves and try to improve
their own lives.

As in any organization, intra-institutional
jealousies and feuds reflect a sense of ter-
ritoriality. Workers in the rural districts are
sure that their problems are not understood

in the capital, while bureaucrats in the
ministry complain about the inane behavior
of the field workers. It’s the same the world
over, so it’s hardly a surprise that we found
these conditions in Guatemala.

Unless, however, health professionals can
agree that a majoritarian approach to health
should be taken, and that this means a
community-based strategy, the frictions of
the past will continue. The tax they levy on
institutional effectiveness will continue to
burden the system, at a cost of better health
for the people as a whole.

4. Primary health care. A focus on
primary care means simply a concentration
on initial contact between medical profes-
sionals and patients. At present, most
resources are spent for curative care in big-
city hospitals to save the lives of gravely ill
people. Humane impulses lie behind such a
concentration. In addition, unusual, ‘‘in-
teresting,’’ or rare conditions excite physi-
cians more than the routine complaints of
hundreds of thousands.

But if health improvement is to be
community-based, it will have to pay more
attention to primary care, more attention to
everyday problems—everyday problems like
diarrhea and bronchitis that lead with regret-
table frequency to death among a vulnerable
population, and everyday problems such as
malaria in the tropical parts of the country,
which while less frequently fatal are per-
manently debilitating.

5. Information. Rational choices can be
made only on the basis of reliable informa-
tion. If record-keeping is missing, sloppy, or
ill-conceived, and if good records are ignored

W&L 23

 

in formulating policy, then health policy will
squander resources in circumstances where
waste is least affordable.

Once again, the interlocking nature of
these recommendations is clear. Good
records require adequate incentives—
incentives to prepare information in the field
and incentives to use it in the capital when
changes are anticipated and plans are made.
Only if field personnel feel that records are
important can they be motivated to perform
the paperwork. And only if planners feel that
their recommendations are solidly based and
thus seriously considered will they trouble to
use the statistics they have.

6. Training. Most health systems focus
on physicians. They are the most highly
trained personnel, have the highest income,
and command the most respect. They also
live predominantly in the capital, devote
themselves to curative rather than preventive
medicine, and require incomes congruent
with their social standing. Low-income coun-
tries can’t afford doctors everywhere they
might be used.

At the same time, studies of international
health show increasingly that traditional
practitioners (paramedical personnel,
barefoot doctors, traditional midwives, phar-
macists) can act effectively at the front lines,

8

Herrick (right) and Andrew Arata, an official of the World Health Organization who specializes in malaria, stand in front of the national cathedral

in the central square of Guatemala City.

24 W&L

and can supplement the work of sanitary
engineers and schoolteachers in promoting
health. Most formal health strategies today
thus reserve a prominent place for these
traditional practitioners.

The difficulties of implementing such a
strategy are obvious. The most influential
parts of the medical community (that is, the
doctors and the universities that train doc-
tors) regard such a recommendation as
potentially dangerous, since it appears to ad-
vocate competition for physicians. Of
course, in a poor country with vast under-
served rural areas, the squeals of anguish
from the organized medical community
sometimes resemble the anticipatory cries of
children even before they receive an injec-
tion. In any event, I am convinced that tradi-
tional medical practitioners in fact expand
the demand for highly trained physicians’
services because they increase community
awareness of the desirability and availabili-
ty of such services at the same time that they
treat local health problems right away.
Again, this recommendation clearly com-
plements previously noted elements.

7. Service delivery. In the end, thinking
about health, planning for it, collecting in-
formation about it, and training for it mean
nothing if it can’t be extended to the peo-

ple. At present, big-city health care is
reasonably adequate. Outside the capital,
however, including the city’s peripheral
suburbs as well as the countryside, the ex-
tension of health services is deficient. Births
are commonly unattended even by midwives,
childhood diseases are treated by folk
methods based on superstition, and illness
more generally is fatalistically accepted.
Poor people and poor countries can do
better, however, and a focus on the principles
noted above will help them use currently
available resources more efficiently, at the
same time that future increases in funds can
be effectively directed toward worthy targets.

Health in development

While health is important, human
development requires more. It will do little
good to save children from premature death
if they survive only to face grinding poverty
and unacceptable deprivation as adults. Bet-
ter health is but a partial goal. More satisfy-
ing human existence requires a knowledge of
alternatives and the capability to carry out
the most attractive of them. Overall develop-
ment, therefore, is the goal, with im-
provements in health a vital, but not the sole,
ingredient.

 

The W&L Gazette

 

Applications for Admission Again Setting Records

 

Aasuciae for admission to Wash-
ington and Lee are again being filed on a
record pace this year.

As of Jan. 5, the University had receiv-
ed a record 2,658 applications. William M.
Hartog, director of admissions, said he ex-
pects to receive more than 3,000 applications
by the Feb. 1 deadline. The previous record
was set in 1985, when the University receiv-
ed 2,639 applications for the University’s
first coeducational class in the undergraduate
divisions.

One of the key indicators of the strong
admissions year is the Early Decision pro-
gram. The University received 301 Early
Decision applications by the Dec. 1 deadline.
That represents a 40 percent increase over a
year ago and is the highest number of Early
Decision applications ever filed. (Early Deci-
sion applicants are those for whom
Washington and Lee is their first choice. By
filing prior to Dec. 1, they can receive
notification of acceptance by Dec. 15, several
months before the regular notification date.)

‘“‘We are doing well in admissions
because our current students are positive
about all aspects of the education offered
here,’’ Hartog said. ‘‘There is a direct cor-
relation between the popularity of a school
and the experiences of its current students.”’

Hartog points especially to the high
percentage of students who remain at W&L
after their freshman year as an indication of
the school’s popularity with students.
According to Scott Dittman, University
registrar, 392 of the 410 students who
matriculated as freshmen in the fall of 1985
returned for their sophomore year at W&L.
This represents a retention rate of 96 percent.

“I tie it to the favorable experiences of
the coeducated classes,’’ said Hartog. ‘‘The
high retention rate says to counselors,
Parents, and students that coeducation is
working at Washington and Lee.”’

In addition to the large increase in the
number of applications, admissions office
Personnel have conducted more on-campus
interviews of prospective students this year
than ever before. Through Dec. 1, a total of
1,470 prospective students had been inter-

 

 

With the help of a crane, members of the
University’s buildings and grounds crew coax a
30-foot tall scarlet oak into its new home by
Lee Chapel. The oak replaces a linden tree
that was destroyed by wind.

viewed on the campus. That compares with
1,170 during the same period last year and
981 for the first coeducational undergraduate
class.

W&L ranks high on selectivity

Washington and Lee was ranked 22nd
among the 46 ‘‘choosiest colleges in the
country”’ in a survey published by USA To-
day in December.

Using data provided by The College
Board and its own research department, the
newspaper listed the 46 United States colleges
and universities that accepted less than half
of its applicants and had an average
freshman SAT score of 1200 or more out of
1600.

The institutions were listed in order of the
percentage of applicants that the college ac-
cepted. Washington and Lee’s position in the
listing was based on its 1985-86 admissions

 

year when the University accepted 33.6 per-
cent of its 2,639 applicants. That put the
University in a tie with Davidson, which also
accepted 33.6 percent, for 22nd place in the
survey.

The top five schools in the survey were,
in order, the U.S. Naval Academy (8.8 per-
cent accepted), the U.S. Military Academy
(11.3), Stanford (14.2), Harvard/Radcliffe
(16.0), and Princeton (17.4).

The survey also indicated the average cost
of the 46 ‘‘choosiest colleges.’’ Washington
and Lee’s 1985-86 cost of $11,780 (which in-
cludes tuition, room and board, books, and
supplies) was the third lowest among the
private schools on the list. Only Cooper
Union ($1,300) and Rice ($9,770) had lower
average costs.

English prize established
to honor Professor Coulling

A prize honoring Sidney M. B. Coulling,
the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of English
at W&L, has been established in the depart-
ment of English.

The Sidney Mathias Baxter Coulling
Prize in English will be given annually to the
freshman or sophomore who writes the finest
essay on a literary topic in an English course.
Outstanding essays will be nominated for the
prize by members of the English faculty.

The prize has been established through
a gift from William C. Porth of Garden Ci-
ty, N.Y. Porth is the father of William
Porth, ’78, who majored in English at
Washington and Lee.

Porth’s gift is designed to honor Coul-
ling on his retirement as head of the depart-
ment of English.

Coulling, ’48, has been a member of the
W&L faculty since 1956. He received his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina and taught at Florida
State University and the University of
Maryland before returning to his alma
mater.

He had served as head of the English
department for eight years before stepping
down from that position last year.

W&L- 25

 

W&L alumni rank high
on list of business leaders

Washington and Lee ranks high among
small, private colleges and universities in the
number of its graduates who go on to
become business leaders, according to a re-
cent study.

In a 1985 survey of the undergraduate
origins of more than 50,000 of the nation’s
top executives, Washington and Lee was
fourth among private, primarily under-
graduate institutions whose enrollments were
less than 3,000 undergraduate students.

The ‘‘Executive/College Survey,’’ which
was compiled by the Financial and Economic
Information Co. and Standard and Poor,
defines business executives as presidents, vice
presidents, and directors of companies that
earn at least $1 million a year. There were
169 Washington and Lee graduates includ-
ed among those executives.

Of the small institutions represented,
Williams College ranked first, followed by
Amherst College and Colgate University.

When the data for the study was taken
a second step, the contributions of
Washington and Lee alumni to the business
community were further illustrated.

The second step involved using the
‘‘business-to-graduate ratio,’’ which was
calculated by dividing the number provided
by the ‘‘Executive/College Survey’’ by the
average number of bachelor’s degrees award-
ed by each institution between 1973 and
1983.

In Washington and Lee’s case, the mean
number of bachelor’s degrees awarded dur-
ing that 10-year span was 312.5. By dividing
the number of executives by the number of
degrees, it was possible to arrive at what the
surveyors called the ‘‘business quotient’’ or
‘‘BQ.’’? Washington and Lee’s BQ for the
study is .541, which leaves the University an
impressive eighth in the nation among the
550 institutions included in the survey.

Ranking above Washington and Lee in
the survey are Yale, Princeton, Harvard,
Dartmouth, Williams, Amherst, and
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

W&L senior assists
middle school research project

The students in the gifted and talented
program at Lexington’s Lylburn Downing
Middle School had some questions, but they
weren’t quite sure how to find the answers.

The sixth-graders wanted to survey fellow
students about attitudes and school policies;
the seventh-graders were interested in what
their classmates thought of extracurricular

26 W&L

 

Washington and Lee senior Robert Merritt discusses the results of a survey he directed with
sixth- and seventh-graders at Lexington’s Lylburn Downing Middle School.

activities. The problem was how to create a
survey that reflected student opinion and was
scientifically accurate.

Enter Robert Merritt, a W&L senior
from Springfield, Va.

Twice a week for more than a month,
Merritt met with the students in the gifted
and talented program to help them formulate
the questions for their surveys, write the
computer program for those surveys, and
tabulate the results.

A sociology/anthropology major, Mer-
ritt was recommended for the project by
David Novack, associate professor of
sociology. He received no academic credit for
his work, but performed ‘‘back-breaking
work,’’ according to Babs Sanders, director
of the school’s gifted and talented program.

By the time Merritt joined the project,
the students had already written several ques-
tions for the survey. ‘‘We talked about
theory and what exactly they were trying to
survey,’’ Merritt said. ‘“We cleaned up the
questions, then the students administered the
survey.”’

Once the students received responses to
the questions, they began entering the 8,000
to 10,000 pieces of data at Washington and
Lee’s computer center. Merritt said he was
amazed that the students were 99 percent ac-
curate in entering the data.

Once the data was entered, Merritt used
a computer program he had written to run
frequencies and cross tabulations. He then
explained the results to the students who

developed reports on what their surveys
revealed.

‘‘T was really impressed with the students’
work,’’ Merritt said. ‘‘They did better work
than some college students I’ve seen.’’

Sanders, too, was impressed—not only
with her students’ work but with Merritt’s
commitment to making the project a success.

‘He explained each step to the students
and why it was necessary to complete one
step before moving to the next,’’ she said.
‘“It was a great experience for all of us.”’

Conference earns alumnus
Congressional Gold Medal

John M. Falk, ’86, has been given the
Congressional Award—Gold Medal for his
work in organizing a symposium on the
W&L campus last year.

Presented for voluntary public service,
the Congressional Award—Gold Medal is
the only youth award authorized by the U.S.
Congress.

Falk was a senior when he organized a
program entitled ‘‘The Procurement of
America’s Defense: 1986 and Beyond.’’ The
symposium brought together experts from
the Department of Defense, Congress, the
media, and the defense industry to discuss
problems of Pentagon waste (Alumni
Magazine, May/June 1986).

Falk and two other students, Steven
Pockrass, ’87, and Timothy McMahon, ’87,
later published transcripts of the symposium.

 

 

Beckley awarded NEH grant

Harlan R. Beckley, associate professor of
religion at W&L, has been awarded a Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities
Fellowship for College Teachers and In-
dependent Scholars.

Beckley is the second Washington and
Lee professor in two years to receive the
prestigious research grant. Edwin D. Craun,
professor of English, was awarded a grant
for the 1986-87 academic year.

The NEH grants support independent
study projects in the humanities. Beckley’s
research project is entitled ‘‘Justice in the
Thought of Walter Rauschenbusch, John A.
Ryan and Reinhold Niebuhr.’’ He will con-
duct his studies during the 1987-88 academic
year when he plans to be on sabbatical leave
from Washington and Lee.

‘*These three (Rauschenbusch, Ryan, and
Niebuhr) stand apart from other Christian
ethicists in the first half of the 20th century
for their influence upon Christian thought
and practice and for their impact upon public
policy in the United States,’’ said Beckley,
who hopes to publish a book on the topic.

Beckley has been studying the theories of
justice of the three theologians, drawing
from their writings and studies of their
thoughts, lives, and times. He will ‘‘trace the
development and application of theologians’
theories of justice in the context of the in-
tellectual and political movements of the time
to which the men were responding.”’

Beckley’s project will build on his
previous studies and essays on religious ethics
and justice, including a recent two-part ar-
ticle, ‘‘A Christian Affirmation of John
Rawls’s Idea of Justice as Fairness,’’ which
was published in The Journal of Religious
Ethics.

Prior to joining the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1974, Beckley was pastor of the
Kingston Springs United Methodist Charge,
where he served three churches in Kingston
Springs, Tenn., while attending Vanderbilt
University.

He received his B.S. degree from the
University of Illinois and went on to earn the
master’s of divinity degree from the Vander-
bilt Divinity School. He also holds both
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Vanderbilt.

Beckley was awarded an Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation Grant under which he
was a research fellow in 1981-82 at the
University of Chicago. He has received
numerous Glenn Grants from Washington
and Lee for summer research.

While Beckley is on sabbatical leave next
year, Neville Richardson of the University
of Natal in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa,
will teach courses on theology and ethics and

 

Harlan Beckley

South African religion. Richardson visited
the Washington and Lee campus in the fall
of 1985 when he presented two lectures under
the sponsorship of the University Lecturers
Committee.

Family Business Institute
established for summer program

Washington and Lee has established a
new summer program designed to address
the unique concerns and challenges facing
family-owned businesses.

The Washington and Lee Institute for
Family Business will ‘‘provide a forum for
exploring several of the special management
concerns of family business operations,”’
said Robert Fure, director of summer pro-
grams at W&L.

Among the issues to be examined at the
institute are divisions of management respon-
sibilities among family members, genera-
tional fragmentation of business ownership,
competing objectives among family
members, competing demands of home and
family, transfer of ownership, and employee
relations.

‘‘The issues that dominate the life of
family-held corporations are not strictly
financial,’’ said Fure. ‘‘Family business is
woven through with many sociological and
psychological issues of family culture, sib-
ling rivalry, parent-child relationships, and
the pursuit of individual destinies.”’

Within the context of a family-owned
business, the agenda for the institute will in-
clude the issues of family relationships, per-
sonnel management, succession planning,
growth and diversification, and strategic
planning.

Fure said the institute will ‘‘represent a
management development program for
families’’ through lectures, readings, focus-
ed discussions, simulation, and case studies.

The institute staff will include four members
of the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics faculty—Roger Dean, John DeVogt,
Joseph Goldsten, and Larry Lamont along
with Anne Schroer, associate dean of
students.

In addition, two national authorities on
family business issues will be on the faculty.
They are Barbara Hollander, a senior fellow
in the Program for Women in Family
Business at the Wharton School Office of
Executive Education, and John L. Ward, the
Ralph Marotta Professor of Private Enter-
prise at Chicago’s Loyola University and
author of Keeping the Family Business
Healthy.

The first institute is scheduled for June
28 through July 2 on the W&L campus.
Enrollment will be limited to 45 individuals
from as many as 20 different companies.

Vann Endowment Fund
to honor history students

A new endowment fund has been
established in memory of James A. Vann III,
61, to recognize outstanding scholarship by
Washington and Lee students in European
history.

Income from the fund, which was
established by Thomas H. Broadus Jr., ’59,
of Baltimore, will be used to present a Vann
Prize in History to the junior or senior stu-
dent who submits the superior paper in the
fields of modern European history or of
modern European architecture, the fields in
which Vann specialized and published. The
award will be made by a prize committee.

‘It is only fitting that Dr. Vann’s
memory be honored in this way,”’ said
Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson.

Vann, who died May 4, 1986, was pro-
fessor of history at Emory University in
Atlanta.

He was an authority on early modern
German history. A summa cum laude
graduate of Washington and Lee, he earned
advanced degrees from Harvard. He taught
for 15 years at the University of Michigan,
where he was awarded the Matthews
Underclass Teaching Award in 1980, before
he joined the faculty at Emory.

He was the author of several books, in-
cluding the 1984 volume The Making of a
State: Wurttemberg, 1593-1793. He was also
the recipient of numerous fellowships, in-
cluding the Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson,
Kennedy, and the American Council of
Learned Studies.

The Vann Prize in History will be award-
ed for the first time at the conclusion of the
current academic year.

W&L 27

Alumni News

 

Mid-South Chapter Establishes Honor Scholarship

 

The Mid-South Chapter has completed its
scholarship drive and will award its first
scholarship to a student entering Washington
and Lee from the Memphis area in the fall
of 1987.

This is the third such scholarship to be
created by a Washington and Lee alumni
chapter. The Baltimore and Houston
chapters have already awarded scholarships
to students from those areas.

Like the Baltimore and Houston scholar-
ships, the new Mid-South Scholarship is part
of the University’s program of honor
scholarships, which are based principally on
merit and recognize superior achievement in
academics, extracurricular activities, and
community service.

The scholarships provide full tuition
assistance and are renewable for each year
of the recipient’s undergraduate career at
W&L, contingent upon satisfactory personal
and academic performance. Recipients are
selected on the basis of secondary school
preparation and contributions outside the
classroom and through joint deliberation of
the University’s admissions staff and a com-
mittee from the alumni chapter.

The Mid-South Chapter raised more than
$100,000 to endow the scholarship. Current
plans call for the Mid-South Scholarship to
be awarded every other year so that there will
be two recipients in attendance at the Univer-
sity at all times.

Craddock Memorial efforts

Members of the Lynchburg Chapter are
at work to create a memorial for the late Dr.
George B. Craddock, ’30, of Lynchburg.

Lea Booth, ’40, and G. Edward Calvert,
°44, are co-chairmen of the chapter’s Crad-
dock Memorial Committee, which aims to
create ‘‘a useful, permanent memorial at
George’s alma mater to serve the kind of pur-
pose that he would have applauded and, even
with his consummate modesty, would have
felt honored to have bear his name.”’

Although the committee has not yet set-
tled on the exact form the memorial will
take, it is considering several options, rang-
ing from student scholarship aid to a
cumulative memorial collection in the
University Library.

Craddock, a revered physician in Lynch-
burg, received an honorary degree from

28 W&L

 

tee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

the University.

William N. Clements,

 

J. Holmes Morrison,

Nominating Committee

Each year a three-member nominating committee is empaneled to fill vacant seats
on the Alumni Board of Directors and to elect an alumni representative to the Univer-
sity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the
names and addresses of the members of the Nominating Committee must be published.
The By-Laws stipulate that any member of the Alumni Association may submit names
of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination to the offices to be filled.

The Nominating Committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill five
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and the vacancy on the University Commit-

Alumni may send names directly to any members of the committee or to the com-
mittee through the office of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at

The committee will close its report on April 15, 1987, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May 9, 1987.
Members of this year’s committee and their addresses are listed below:

 

Richard H. Middleton Jr.,

°50 63, *67L °73, *76L
Summers Fuel, Inc. Kanawha Valley Bank Middleton and Anderson
28 Allegheny Avenue P.O. Box 1793 P.O. Box 10006
Towson, MD 21204 Charleston, WV 25314 Savannah, GA 31412
(301) 825-8555 (304) 343-9214 (912) 234-1133

 

 

Washington and Lee in 1985 and was nam-
ed a Distinguished Alumnus in 1976.

New chapter presidents

Three chapters have elected new
presidents recently. The chapters and their
presidents are:

Arkansas Chapter—Lee S. Thalheimer,
°73; Charleston, W.Va.—Benjamin L.
Bailey, ’75; Spartanburg—Arthur F.
Cleveland II, ’71.

Chapter activities

Alumni in the Asheville, N.C., area held
a meeting in October to organize a Western
Carolina Chapter. Gene Wood, ’84, Ted
Delaney, ’85, and Perry Bartsch, ’76, have
been the organizational forces behind the
new chapter, which held its first official func-
tion in mid-December.

In November, the New York Chapter
heard from Frank Parsons, ’54, executive
assistant to W&L President John D. Wilson,
at a luncheon meeting; the New Orleans

 

Chapter held a reception for Bill Hartog,
director of admissions, and prospective
students from the New Orleans area; and the
Pittsburgh Chapter sponsored a pre-game
tailgate party before the Generals played
Allegheny College at Meadville, Pa. Follow-
ing the game, the group joined alumni from
the Erie Chapter and discussed ideas for
future joint ventures between the chapters.

Buddy Atkins, ’68, associate dean of
students, gave the St. Louis Chapter a report
on the state of the W&L fraternity system
during a meeting in early December.

The Northwest Louisiana Chapter held
a Christmas reception in honor of current
and prospective students during the
Christmas holidays.

The Charlotte Chapter joined alumni
from other Virginia colleges for the fourth
annual Old Dominion Fall Oyster Roast in
December while Nashville Chapter members
participated in a Christmas holiday buffet at
Cheekwood with alumni from the University
of Virginia, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Duke,
and North Carolina.

Far East Reunions

Washington and Lee history professor
Roger Jeans took advantage of his sabbatical
leave to Hong Kong and Japan last fall to
participate in informal reunions with par-
ticipants in the University’s exchange
programs.

In Hong Kong, Jeans and his wife,
Sylvia, met with ‘‘alumni’’ of Chung Chi
College’s exchange program with W&L and
also greeted two current W&L students who
are in residence at Chung Chi. And in
Tokyo, the Jeanses had similar meetings with
former Rikkyo exchange students and with
W&L alumni currently working and study-
ing there.

Development Director sought

Washington and Lee is currently seeking
applications for director of development—
a position recently vacated by an ad-
ministrative reorganization.

The director will have supervisory
responsibility for annual, capital, and defer-
red fundraising, along with close involve-
ment in the formulation of the University’s
next development campaign.

Candidates should have had seven to 10
years experience in fundraising with a record
of substantial achievement, strong com-
munication and interpersonal skills, and a
commitment to higher education.

Applications should be made by Feb. 27,
1987, to Farris P. Hotchkiss, Vice President
for University Relations, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

WESTERN CAROLINA—Asheville area alumni who helped organize the new chapter included
(from left) Garland Overstreet, ’°67, Gene Wood, ’84, and John Wade, ’73.

TOK YO—History professor Roger Jeans is shown with exchange students from Rikkyo Universi-
ty and W&L’s current student at Rikkyo as well as alumnus Steve Denny, ’83, a former exchange
student who now makes his home in Tokyo. Front row from left, Chie Saito (1979-80); Kazuhiro
Hazama (1980-81); Yukie Kurihara (1984-86); Don Schaeffer, ’89; back row from left, Jeans;
Denny; Hideki Suzuki (1983-84); Sylvia Jeans.

    

HONG KONG—W8&L history professor Roger Jeans poses with exchange students from Chung
Chi (years in residence at W&L listed after names) and two W&L students currently in residence
at Chung Chi. Front row from left, Ivy Tam (1982-83); Isabella Lam (1985-86); Forrest Cannon,
88; middle, Chung Chi professor Siu-tong Kwok; back row from left, Heidi Chan (1977-78);
Charles Chan (1978-79); Jeans; Don Thayer, ’88; Clara Yue (1980-81); Ione Lo (1985-86).

W&L 29

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

30

WE&L

1924

John G. Guerrant, who retired from Virginia
Paper Co. in Richmond in 1968, reports that he
is finally getting accustomed to retirement.

1929

Dr. Charles V. Amole is in his 10th year of retire-
ment and says he enjoys traveling with his wife,
Anne. They recently spent a week at Sea Island,
Ga., for a golf tournament and traveled on the
Mississippi Queen riverboat last August.

Alfred I. Schlossberg’s son, Edwin Arthur
Schlossberg, was prominent in the news last sum-
mer when he married Caroline Bouvier Kennedy
on July 19, 1986, in Centerville, Mass.

1930

William T. Alsop reports he is planning to retire
soon after 45 years with the Pillans & Smith Co.
He and his wife, Ethel, live in Ocala, Fla.

1934

Fred O. Funkhouser has been named a Paul Har-
ris Fellow by the Rotary Club of Harrisonburg,
Va.

Dr. Henry L. Haines has retired as a surgeon and
has since been traveling and spending time with
his grandchildren. Haines recently built a new
house on Cape Cod.

Although officially retired, Dr. Victor F. Marshall
still teaches medical students at the University of
Virginia twice a week. He lives in Gordonsville,
Va.

Foster McCrum Palmer has been pursuing his light
rail hobby in Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Calgary, Ed-
monton, Vancouver, and Seattle. He attended Ex-
po and Steam Expo in Vancouver, Canada.

The title of Richard B. Sale’s latest film, his 30th,
has been changed from My Affair with the Presi-
dent’s Wife to Assassination. Sale notes that W&L
is in the plot. The film was scheduled to be released
in early January. Sale has also begun working on
his 31st picture, which is titled King’s Ransom.

1935

Bruce T. Bullion retired after nine years as
chancery judge in the Pulaski County Courthouse
in Little Rock, Ark. Bullion was appointed in 1977
by then-Gov. David Pryor. He subsequently won
six-year terms in 1978 and again in 1984. A former
president of the Arkansas Bar Association, he was
forced to retire prior to the end of his current term
for health reasons.

Edward P. Mincher is retired from his position as
general counsel to the Medical Society of the State
of New Jersey and lives now in Nokomis, Fla.

1936

William M. Allen reports that he continues to
‘putter along’’ with writing, teaching refugees,
gardening, and swimming, among other pursuits.

Dr. G. Roger Myers retired from his practice of
medicine in June 1980, after 40 years as a family
physician. Myers lives in Coronado, Calif.

 

 

Dr. Charles A. Sweet is living in Englewood, Fla.,
and reports that he enjoyed his 50th reunion in

May.
1937

 

50th Reunion May 7-9

 

1938

Paul M. Miller is a graduate student in the English
department at San Francisco State University and
is on the vestry at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church.
He also does volunteer work as a guide in Golden
Gate Park.

Jack Neill will co-chair the Class of ’38’s 50th reu-
nion in May of 1988 with classmate Ernie
Williams.

Alphonse J. Sherman is teaching part time at the
University of Bridgeport and spends his spare time
fishing in the Long Island Sound.

1939

Charles E. Bowles retired in April 1985 after 33
years with State Farm Insurance Co. He was cor-
porate claim counsel. He and his wife, Sara Le,
live in Normal, Ill., and travel periodically to
Dallas, Texas, to see their sons and
granddaughters.

William R. Hogan is still enthusiastically enjoy-
ing his work as a petroleum geologist in Wichita
Falls, Texas.

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon of Charlottesville, Va., a
Trustee emeritus of W&L, was given the
Distinguished Alumni Award for 1986 by the
Alumni Association of the Darlington School in
Rome, Ga. He joined the University of Virginia
faculty in 1956 and became that university’s presi-
dent three years later. After 15 years as its leader,
he returned to full-time teaching as a professor of
English. He has since served a term as chairman
of the English department. Shannon was a trustee
at the Darlington School from 1964 until 1975.

1940

Charles C. Curl Jr. is still playing golf and tennis
and continues to hunt and fish. He lives on St.
Simons Island, Ga.

Dr. Charles P. Lewis Jr. is still practicing medicine
in Reidsville, N.C.

194]

Charles E. Bowles Jr. (See 1939.)

Tom W. Brockenbrough continues to stay busy
as chairman of the civil engineering department
at the University of Delaware.

William L. Evans Jr. of Fort Worth, Texas, writes
that he has been practicing ‘‘a little law’’ (mostly
wills and estates and probate) and doing a lot of
traveling—to Europe and the Caribbean and
throughout the United States. But Evans warns:
‘don’t let anyone tell you retirement is great. With
the profession I had as an airline pilot, retirement,
especially the stupid mandatory retirement at 60,
Is a kick in the head.”’

1942

 

45th Reunion May 7-9

 

1943

A.L. Cahn has retired after 35 years in the con-
sumer finance business and plans to travel and pur-

sue other business interests. He lives in Meridian,
Miss.

S L Kopald Jr. retired as president of Humko Shef-
field in September 1986—exactly 40 years to the
day after he began work with Humko. Kopald and
his wife, Mimi, also celebrated their 40th wedding
anniversary in September. They live in Memphis,
Tenn. Kopald is a W&L Trustee.

Barton W. Morris retired two years ago after 40
years in the newspaper and magazine business. He
and his wife are traveling a good deal and see other
alumni in Hilton Head, S.C., regularly. Morris has
also had the opportunity to play lots of golf. Mor-
ris has a daughter who is a newspaper reporter in
Greensboro, N.C., and a son at the University of
Virginia law school.

Donald L. Richardson, general partner at Roney
& Co., a member of the New York Stock Ex-
change, has been appointed resident manager of
the Dearborn, Mich., office of Roney & Co.

Philip K. Shute has retired. He and his wife spend
six months each year in Hingham, Mass., and six
months in Fort Myers, Fla.

1944

Baird Brown has been retired 12 years, much of
which he has spent traveling. This year he has
taken trips to Indonesia, Scandinavia, Canada,
and the United Kingdom. He lives in Chicago.

John B. Hankin Jr. retired in 1983 from Burl-
ington Industries after 30 years of service and lives
in Charlotte, N.C.

G. Edward Heinecke and his wife, Priscilla, lived
in Singapore during 1985-86 on an Internal Ex-
ecutive Service Corps volunteer project assign-
ment. He worked as a consultant in advertising
and marketing to the chairman of Hong Leong
Finance Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. He now lives
in Mequon, Wis.

E.S. (Tad) Humphreys Jr. has retired as co-
publisher of the News-Gazette Corp. of Lexington,
Va. He is now associated with Paul Yengst and
Associates, a private investigator, in Roanoke.

Dr. Haven W. Mankin will be retiring from his
private practice of radiology in Oklahoma City in
March 1987. He is looking forward to time on his
new computer and his ham radio and to traveling
and painting.

Grant E. Mouser III retired from the U.S. Foreign
Service in 1985 after 35 years of duty. Mouser lives
in Williamsburg, Va. He taught at Old Dominion
University last year and currently lectures at
William and Mary.

Dr. L. Holly Smith Jr. is serving as associate dean
of the school of medicine at the University of
California at San Francisco. He also serves as the
chairman of the medical advisory board of the
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, which is a large
(more than $5 billion) organization that supports
medical research in this country. Another member
of the board is Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, ’62, 1985
Nobel Prize winner.

1945

Walter E. Frye has retired from Santa Barbara
School District and is a substitute teacher in the
Goleta School District in Goleta, Calif.

1947 ©

 

40th Reunion May 7-9

 

Harrison B. Kinney retired in April 1986 after

writing for IBM for 25 years. He is now back to
free-lance writing, where he left off a quarter of
a century ago. He lives in Mt. Kisco, N.Y.

1948

James F. Booker retired from the Dupont Co.
after 40 years of service in various marketing and
advertising positions. He says he plans to travel
and dote on his grandchildren. He lives in Wilm-
ington, Del.

Grant E. Mouser (See 1944).

William Earle Tucker has retired after 38 years as
a trial lawyer. He plans to devote his spare time
to improving his golf score and catching a few fish.
He reports that his wife, Gloria, has started a job
jar, which he says he is trying to ignore. Tucker
also has two grandchildren to enjoy. He lives in
Temple Terrace, Fla.

Sheppard W. Zinovoy is currently president of
Alfin Fragrances Inc. in New York City.

1949

Philip C. Braunschweig serves as secretary/
treasurer of the Orlando SCORE (Service Corps
of Retired Executives) chapter, which handles
about 1,200 clients a year. He is also a master
gardener at the Seminole County Agriculture
Center and lives in Winter Springs, Fla.

Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr., the associate deputy chief
medical director of the Veterans Administration,
was presented the Founder’s Medal at the annual
dinner of the Association of
Military Surgeons of the
United States in San An-
tonio, Texas, on Nov. 5,
1986. He was cited for his
outstanding contributions to
federal medicine and for his
meritorious service to the
association. In his current

g position, he is responsible for
policy development and program planning for the
nation’s largest health care system. During a
27-year career in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps,
from which he retired with the rank of rear ad-
miral, Brown served as commanding officer of
both the prestigious National Naval Medical
Center in Bethesda, Md., and the Naval Regional
Medical Center in San Diego. His final Navy
assignment was as fleet medical officer of the U.S.
Pacific Fleet. He is currently a clinical professor
in the department of psychiatry at the Uniformed
Services University of the Health Sciences. Brown
lives in Reston, Va., with his wife, Lea, and is the
father of three grown children.

David R. Smythe retired in December 1985 from
his position as regional counsel for Nationwide In-
surance Cos. He lives in Lynchburg, Va. His son,
Christopher O. Smythe, is a member of the W&L
class of ’90.

  

1950

Arthur A. Birney set sail this summer for the
Azores with his son, Arthur A. (Lex) Jr., ’78. They
raced from Annapolis to Bermuda successfully and
developed boat problems en route to the Azores.
They sailed back to Bermuda and then back to An-
napolis. Birney says it was a great trip, even though
they failed to reach their goal. They will try again
in 1988. Birney lives in Washington, D.C.

John S. Lane was elected presiding judge of the
California Municipal Court for Los Angeles Coun-
ty at Long Beach.

Neal E. McNeill Jr. has been city attorney of
Tulsa, Okla., since 1980. He is also a trustee of

W&L 31

 

the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers,
a director of the Oklahoma Municipal Attorneys
Association, and a member of the advisory board
of the Municipal Legal Studies Center,
Southwestern Legal Foundation.

Oliver M. Mendell has completed a three-year term
as chairman of the Fifth Avenue Association, one
of the larger civic organizations in New York Ci-
ty. He was re-elected treasurer of the USO and has
traveled with the military to the Air Force
Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo., and to a
Marine base in Cherry Point, N.C., during the past
year.

G. William Whitehurst retired from Congress on
Jan. 3, 1987, and has begun lecturing in public af-
fairs at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va.
He has also contracted to be a news analyst for
WVEC-TV, the ABC affiliate in Norfolk.

1951

Oliver T. Carter is a division manager with C&P
Telephone in management training/education. He
lives in McLean, Va.

Lewis P. Collins III and his wife, Marsha, are
planning a cruise to Japan, China, Hong Kong,
etc., in May 1987. When they are not traveling,
the Collinses live in Marion, Va.

Robert H. Salisbury Jr. is chairman of the depart-
ment of political science at Washington Universi-
ty in St. Louis where he has taught since 1955.

Richard B. Taylor has recently published two
books. The first, The Nevada Tombstone Record
Book, is a historical review of Nevada towns with
an emphasis on genealogical resources. The other,
Las Vegas Hacienda Hotel History Book,
chronicles the development of a Las Vegas hotel-
casino over a 30-year period.

1952

 

35th Reunion May 7-9

 

Arthur A. Birney (See 1950.)

John Joseph Kindred III is vice president and of-
ficer in charge of Manufacturers Hanover’s estates
and trusts and tax departments. The business
group manages in excess of $4.5 billion in assets
for its clients.

J. Tim Mackey and his wife, Connie, have just
moved to Bay St. Louis (Diamondhead Resort),
Miss., in preparation for his retirement from Trans
World Airlines in June 1987. They have a
daughter, Amanda, 4.

Julian B. Mohr owns a chemical manufacturing
company, Momar, which is continuing to expand
in foreign markets. In addition to its Lubest and
Aquatrol divisions, which specialize in the
manufacturing of synthetic lubricants and water
treatment compounds, Momar is opening a
manufacturing facility in Sydney, Australia, in
February 1987. Mohr lives in Atlanta.

Thomas R. Warfield is president of Warfield, Ban-
field & Co. Inc., an investment counsel firm that
he founded three years ago. The firm, which is
headquartered in New York City, caters mainly
to individual investors.

1953

Pete Carter is vice president of Mera Bank in E:
Paso, Texas, where he has lived for the past 32
years. He reports that his four children are all out
of college.

James M. Gabler Jr. was recently elected presi-
dent of the Wine and Food Society of Baltimore,
Md. His book, Wine Into Words, was reviewed
in the October issue of Playboy.

Rod F. Stock is serving a second term as
Republican Committeeman from Washoe Coun-
ty, Nev. He served as a delegate to the Nevada
State Republican Convention in May 1986. He

lives in Reno.
1954

Laurence C. Palmer recently completed his 12th
year at COMSAT Corp., COMSAT Laboratories
in Clarksburg, Md. He is the principal scientist in
the communications techniques division. He lives
in Potomac, Md.

 

 
  
 
 
 
   
  
    

i +59, has mov-
yazine business at
amed him chief ex-
gazine group on

Brack age pre-
ly been CEO for |
Time Inc.’s book
publishing group.
Sixteen days after
_ he was named CEO,
_ Brack’s plans for the
‘Magazine division
were featured in an ar-
ticle j in 1 The Wall Street Journal, which
noted that concerns over a takeover and
advertising revenues have caused Brack
to cut costs and review development
plans.

Brack is no stranger to the magazine
business. He joined Time Inc. in 1962 and

 

  

, ihcved hou ‘ i

  

tional to Tim

   

and CEO of Time-Life Book s. Two years —
later he was elected group vice president
of Time Inc., with overall responsibility
for the corporation’s book publishing ac-
tivities. He was given much of the credit
for turning the books division into the
second largest book publishing operation
in the country.

In addition to Time, the magazine
division of Time Inc. publishes Life, For-
tune, Sports Illustrated, Money, People,
and Discover.

 

 

32. W&L

1955

James M. Gabler Jr. (See 1953.)

Raymond D. Smith Jr. has been transferred to
England by the Bankers Trust Co. of New York

City.
1956

Lewis P. Collins III (See 1951.)

Mark B. Davis Jr. is practicing law in Louisville,
Ky., and is currently serving as vice president of
the W&L Law Council. His daughter, Susan, is
a member of the W&L Class of 790.

William C. Norman Jr. is currently serving as
treasurer and director of the Ashlex County In-
dustrial Development Corp., as a member of the
Southeast Arkansas Central Corridor Committee,
and as a director of Vision 21, a local leadership
group. He is also past president of the Crossett,
Ark., Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. Headley S. White Jr. is professor of family
medicine at Hahnemann University and president
of the Muhlenberg College Board Associates. He
lives in Coopersburg, Pa.

1957

 

30th Reunion May 7-9

 

John M. Ham was recently appointed director of
secondary school placement at Rippowam School
in Bedford, N.Y. This is Ham’s 26th year in the
field of education.

1958

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William A. Roberts, a
daughter, Alieze Drake, on Sept. 12, 1985. The
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

Mark B. Davis Jr. (See 1956.)

1959

John D. Bassett III, president and chief operating
officer of Vaughn-Bassett Furniture Co. in Galax,
Va., and vice president of Williams Furniture Co.
in Sumter, S.C., has been named to the board of
directors of the American Furniture Manufacturers
Association for a three-year term.

Thomas D. Frith Jr. has been nominated by the
local bar association as the general district court
judge in Montgomery County, Va. He has served
as district court substitute judge for traffic,
criminal, civil, domestic, and juvenile relations
cases. He lives in Blacksburg, Va.

Michael Norell wrote the teleplay for the CBS-TV
movie Barnum, which was telecast in November
and received excellent critical reviews.

1960

Capt. F. James Barnes III is currently assistant
chief of staff for plans and policy and commander
in chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet.

Malcolm Lassman has four children and is a senior
partner in the law firm Akin, Gump, Strauss,
Hauer & Feld. The firm has offices in Washington,
D.C., Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio, Austin,
New York City, and London.

Mervyn F. Silverman is president of the American
Foundation for AIDS Research and director of the
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation AIDS Health
Services Program. He continues as a health care
consultant in San Francisco.

1961

Dwight R. Chamberlain became the first gold

 

 

sponsor of the Muscatatuck chapter of Ducks
Unlimited Inc. at the annual fund-raising banquet
held in October at the Pines in Seymour, Ind.

Dr. William J. Fidler Jr. is in the private practice
of pathology in Memphis, Tenn. In his spare time,
Fidler goes bicycling and trout fishing.

Capt. Hayes I. (Jerry) Gordon has been reassign-
ed to the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, R.I.
Gordon is currently serving as director of the War
Gaming Center.

Richard W. Hoover left his post, Embassy Nicosia,
Cyprus, in June 1986. He spent the summer in
Washington, D.C., “‘getting his W&L French back
into shape,’’ before reporting to Embassy Rabat,
Morocco, in October. His son, Alex Lopez-Duke,
is a member of the W&L class of ’87.

James K. Randolph has become vice president of
investment sales for NHP Joint Ventures Inc., a
subsidiary of National Corporation for Housing
Partnerships. He lives in Washington, D.C.

Dr. Stephen L. Thompson was featured in a story
in the Lynchburg, Va., News and Daily Advance.
Titled ‘‘Campbell’s Self-Styled ‘Country Doctor’
Loves his Way of Life,’’ the article details Thomp-
son’s 18 years of family practice in Rustburg, Va.

1962

 

25th Reunion May 7-9

 

For the third time in 10 years, G.T. Dunlop Ecker
has been elected chairman of the board of direc-
tors of the District of Columbia Hospital Associa-
tion. He has also been invited to participate with
45 other individuals in the Leadership Washington
program.

N. Rick Frisbie was recently promoted to first vice
president of E.F. Hutton and Co. Frisbie works
in Washington, D.C. He and his wife, Barbara,
live in Arlington, Va.

R. Roy Goodwin II was recently promoted to vice
president of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s Augusta, Ga.,
office. He has been with the company 21 years.

Jerry H. Hyatt, a Democratic member of the
Maryland House of Delegates, was recently ap-
pointed to the District Court of Maryland for
Montgomery County. He replaced Judge Paul
Weinstein, ’55, who was elevated to the Circuit
Court. Hyatt and his wife, Carolyn, live in Ger-
mantown, Md.

R. William Ide III is on leave from the law firm
Kutak, Rock & Campbell and is serving as
manager of public finance for the Southeast and
special counsel to public finance for E.F. Hutton.
He also commutes one day a week from his Atlan-
ta home to Tallahassee to serve as an adjunct pro-
fessor at Florida State University.

Wesley R. Ostergren will graduate in May 1987
from the Mississippi College School of Law. He
then plans to take the New Jersey bar exam and
enter private practice in Ocean County, N.J.

1963

Dr. Robert R. Campbell has been elected to the
board of directors of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co. in Goldsboro, N.C. Campbell is a partner in
Wayne Radiologists.

Malcolm Lassman (See 1960).

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Alford, a son,
Charles Dylan, on Sept. 10, 1986. Alford is assis-

_ elected president of the

tant headmaster and head of the upper school at
Rumson Country Day School, Rumson, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Jamison, a son, Brit-
ton Hardin, on Feb. 28, 1986.

Lee D. Barker has begun his own law firm, Lee
Barker and Associates, with offices in Los Angeles
and Pasadena, Calif. He and his wife, Pat, have
two daughters, Lauren, 7, and Kerry, 2.

Daniel W. Bird Jr. has served as a Virginia state
senator from Wytheville since 1975.

Roland S. Corning of Columbia, S.C., has been
elected to his first term in the South Carolina
House of Representatives.

Victor R. Galef is vice president of marketing at
Rorer Consumer Pharmaceuticals, which sells such
well-known brands as Maalox antacid and Ascrip-
tin analgesic. He and his wife, Mimi, have three
children, Jennifer, Grant, and Wendy.

John W. Hunt and his wife, Ann, live in Houston,
where Hunt is president of The Tree Sweet Cos.
William L. Putnam is currently director of human

resources for Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories in
Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

1967

 

20th Reunion May 7-9

 

W. Nat Baker has taken a new position in Milpitas,
Calif., with LSI Logic Corp., a designer and
fabricator of application specific integrated cir-
cuits. He will be manager of financial planning and
analysis.

Robert B. Priddy has been an investment represen-
tative since 1983 with Alex, Brown & Sons in Rich-
mond, Va. He and his wife, Barbara, have a son,
Brackett, 9, and two daughters, Caroline, 6, and
Kendall, 3.

W.A. Roper Vaughan has been in Texas since late
1981, when he and three partners developed a
specialty retail concept—cargo furniture. The com-
pany was sold to Tandycrafts Inc. Now Vaughan
serves as president of Cargo Furniture, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Tandycrafts Inc.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William C. Schaefer, a
daughter, Lindsay Evans, on July 8, 1986.
Schaefer is director of marketing for J.R. Brooks
& Son Inc., Florida’s largest tropical and special-
ty fruit shipper.

Joseph W. Brown recently made an unsuccessful
bid as the Republican candidate for lieutenant
governor of Nevada.

N. Taylor Carlson is still working as vice presi-
dent of finance for Contel Texocom, a division
of Contel Corp. in Atlanta. Texocom is a national
distributor of telecommunications products and
equipment.

Howard L. Mocerf has joined the law firm of
Tockman & Wolk in St. Louis.

1969

Clark H. Carter has been

Independent Insurance
Agents of Metropolitan
Baltimore Inc. He is vice
president and secretary
of Mason & Carter Inc.,
where he has worked
since 1972.

 

 

Dr. Michael J. Hawkins is head of the biologics
evaluation section of the cancer therapy evalua-
tion program in the National Cancer Institute in
Bethesda, Md. He had previously been an assis-
tant professor at the University of Wisconsin
Clinical Cancer Center.

Richard E. Kramer is literary manager of Stage
Left Inc. (artistic director is classmate Kirk Wood-
ward) and vice president for communications of
Literary Managers and Dramaturgs of America
Inc. He has also screened scripts for the
Rockefeller Foundation’s Fellowships for
American Playwrights Program and is teaching a
theatre course at Norwalk Community College in
Connecticut.

Dr. James J. Livesay was featured in the Houston
Chronicle for his work with a laser surgery tech-
nique that is being used to vaporize fatty plaque
threatening to narrow and ultimately close arteries
vital to proper functioning of the heart. Livesay
has become a pioneer in the use of the technique.

Robert W. Wipfler enjoyed a second successful
summer as the owner and director of Kingswood
Camp for Boys in the White Mountains of New
Hampshire.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Gage, a son,
James Thurber, on April 22, 1986. The family lives
in Grosse Pointe, Mich.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Clint B. Palmer, a
daughter, Nora Maeve, on July 16, 1986. The
family lives in Pasadena, Calif.

David M. Bethea is a professor and chairman of
slavic languages at the University of Wisconsin.
He is also director of the Middlebury College Rus-
sian School. He recently finished a new book, The
Shape of Apocalypse in Modern Russian Fiction,
and his first book, Khodasevich, was released in
paperback by Princeton University Press in the
summer of 1986. He lives in Madison, Wis.

Kenneth M. Clayton is an organizing director of
the National Bank of Commerce, the first national
bank to be chartered in central Florida in more
than 10 years. He lives in Orlando.

William E. Pearson is a missionary in the Philip-
pines. He works with Wycliff Bible Translators
and is assistant principal at Faith Academy, a
school for missionary children.

E. Owen Perry III was recently elected president
of the 4,000-member
Georgia Forestry Associa-
tion. He traveled to China as
part of a 1986 Tree Farm
Delegation. He is president
of Southland Timber Co. in
Augusta, Ga., and Empire
Timber Co. in Fitzgerald,
Ga. Both companies are sub-

sidiaries of Canal Industries
Inc., a major privately held Southern forest prod-
ucts company. Perry lives in Augusta with his wife,
Betty, and their two daughters, Laura, 12, and
Beth, 9.

William F. Rector Jr. has formed a real estate com-
pany, Renaissance Properties Ltd. Rector and
John Tucker Morse, ’67, ’71L, are currently
renovating a block of downtown Little Rock into
a retail, restaurant, and office complex.

Dr. Bruce S. Samuels has recently taken a second
partner and has opened a third office for the prac-
tice of internal medicine in the New Orleans area.

W&L 33

 

He has two sons, ages 5 and 2, and is board-
certified in internal medicine. |

1971

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Craig A. Bowlus, a
daughter, Mary Katherine, on March 27, 1986.
Bowlus is vice president and director of broadcast
production for the Martin Agency, an advertising
agency in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James F. Easterlin, a
daughter, Leah, on Sept. 30, 1986, in Jacksonville,
Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John M. McCardell Jr.,
a son, James Benjamin Lee, on Oct. 21, 1986. He
joins a brother, John Malcolm III, 4. The family
lives in Middlebury, Vermont.

Dr. Lucius D. Clay III is practicing general surgery
in Princeton, N.J.

Henry A. Harkey is president-elect of the Wake
Forest University School of Law Alumni
Association.

Charles G. Houston III is director of commercial
development for Carter & Associates, an Atlanta-
based real estate firm. Among his current projects
is a 100-acre mixed use project in Birmingham,
Ala., the first phase of which is a $45 million cor-
porate headquarters. He notes that there isa W&L
connection to the project, which has been named
‘‘Colonnade.”’

Christopher B. Murray is vice president of design
with the Baltimore furniture manufacturer, David
Edward Co. He and Josephine, along with
Nicholas, 6, and Margo, 4, have moved to
Baltimore.

Clyde E. (Tripp) Smith III is executive vice presi-
dent of Smith-Nadenbousch Insurance Inc. Smith
has two children, Clyde E. (Cort), 12, and Jen-
nifer Gregg, 6.

Hollis C. Taggart is president of an art gallery,
Taggart, Jorgensen & Putman, in Washington,
D.C. The gallery specializes in American impres-
sionism. He and his wife, Terry, are expecting their
first child in February 1987.

G. Hoy Widener III has just moved to Beaufort,
S.C., with his wife, Ann, and their two sons, Justin
and Colin. Widener has started a private practice
in ophthalmology.

1972

 

15th Reunion May 7-9

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas O. Barton, a
daughter, Perrin Elizabeth, on June 15, 1986. The
family lives in Austin, Texas.

Peter B. Homans obtained two graduate degrees
in music from New England Conservatory and
worked for Leonard Bernstein as assistant business
manager. After returning from a stay in Europe,
he entered the brokerage business with Smith,
Barney and later became a partner with Bear,
Stearns. He has since established his own firm,
Homans, Trull, Valeo & Co. and lives in Newton,
Mass.

John Larmour is the Charlottesville area dealer for
Cedardale Log Homes. He and his wife have a
daughter, Vanessa.

John T. McCarthy, assistant vice president of
mergers and acquisitions for NCNB Investment
Banking Co., has been promoted to vice president.
He lives in Wingate, N.C.

34. W&L

Dr. William W. Peery was initiated as a fellow into
the American College of Surgeons. Currently he
is in private surgical practice with Blue Ridge
Surgical Associates in Galax, Va., where he is
chairman of the surgical committee at the Twin
County Community Hospital.

- Michael E. Riley lives in Bristol, Va., with his wife,

Linda, and three daughters, Kate, Sawyer, and
Clay. He works for United Coal Co. in interna-
tional sales.

William H. West Jr. left First & Merchants Na-
tional Bank in June 1983 to become president of
Drogas Mortgage Co. in Virginia Beach. West lives
in the Ghent section of Norfolk with his wife, Tem-
ple, and sons, Bill and Nathaniel.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William P. (Sam) Englehart
Jr., a son, William P. III, on Sept. 23, 1986.
Englehart has practiced law in Towson, Md., with
the firm of Nolan, Plumhoff & Williams since
1979. In September 1986, Englehart began a two-
year term as one of two alumni representatives on
the W&L athletic committee.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Gray III, a
daughter, Brady Sheldon, on Sept. 25, 1986, in
Austin, Texas. She joins a sister, Britten, 6, and
a brother, Richard, 2. Gray is a partner in the
Austin law firm of Gray & Becker.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Taylor IV, a
daughter, Sarah Davis, on March 11, 1986. Taylor
is with Ernst & Whinney in Atlanta as senior
manager in the consulting division directing cor-
porate financial services.

W. Patrick Hinely recently served as chairman of
the jury for Jazz Photo ’86 in Warsaw, Poland.
The exhibition, which tours jazz festivals around
Europe, includes his own prize-winning works
from the ’84 and ’85 competitions.

Andrew G. Hollinger was promoted by IBM to
manager of complementary resources marketing
in Fort-Worth, Texas. He had been with the com-
pany’s executive education program in San Jose,
Calif. In his new position, he will manage and con-
tract firms that assist the IBM field force in
marketing and supporting intermediate systems.
His wife, Mary, has become a kindergarten teacher
in a local school. They have a son, Jeremy, 4.

Dr. John M. Holman Jr. is assistant professor of
surgery at the University of Utah in Salt Lake Ci-
ty. After completing his surgery residency at the
University of Utah, he obtained a Ph.D. in
physiology at Albany Medical College and then
completed a renal transplant fellowship there
before returning to Utah.

Philip B. Spivey is a partner in the newly formed
law firm of Spivey, Yawn, Herrington & Wingfield
in Milledgeville, Ga.

John A. Steinhauer has changed his name to John
Aaron. He has formed Aaron & Associates Inc.,
a consulting firm specializing in helping CPA’s
start, market, and operate financial planning prac-
tices. He lives in Los Angeles.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. John Paul Woodley Jr.,
a daughter, Elizabeth Ingersoll, on Nov. 5, 1986,
in Richmond.

C. Dean Foster Jr. obtained a master’s degree in
public administration from Syracuse University in
1976. He served as county attorney for Roanoke
County, Va., from 1976 to 1978 when he was ap-
pointed the first full-time county attorney for Scott

County, Va., a position he still holds. He has serv-
ed two terms as a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Local Governments Attorneys Associa-
tion of Virginia and in October 1986 was elected
secretary/treasurer of the association. He lives in
Weber City, Va.

Bradford Neil Martin was selected to participate
in the Chamber of Commerce’s Leadership Green-
ville Program for 1986-87 in Greenville, S.C.

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Ed Ramsey, a son,
Michael Quinn, on May 14, 1986. He joins a
brother, Christopher, 4. The family lives in
Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. Lawrence B. Cahoon has been awarded tenure
and promotion to associate professor in the depart-
ment of biological sciences at the University of
North Carolina-Wilmington.

T. Barry Davis has been presented the ‘‘Masters
of Excellence’? Award at 3M Company for the
fourth time in six years. Davis is a senior account
manager at 3M/Media Networks Inc. in Falls
Church, Va. He is responsible for national adver-
tising in publications such as Time, Money,
Newsweek, and others. Davis has been among the
top five four times and has been ranked number
one in the nation.

Joseph H. Dennis graduated from the University
of Dayton law school this past spring. After pass-
ing the Ohio bar on Nov. 12, 1986, he joined the
partner of his late father, Max H. Dennis, ’47,
°48L, in the firm of Dennis and Williams in Wilm-
ington, Ohio.

S. Lawrence Dumville is a partner in the Norfolk,
Va., law firm of Breeden, MacMillan & Green.
He specializes in insurance defense litigation.
Dumville is currently serving as secretary of W&L’s
Tidewater alumni chapter.

John W. Getz is working on his Ph.D. in
psychology at the University of Pittsburgh, where
he is coordinating the psychoeducational clinic.

Dr. William L. Warren Jr. of Salisbury, Md., was
recently elected president of the Southern Baptist
Theological Seminary Alumni Association of
Maryland/Delaware. He was also recently elected
to serve as a member of the Christian life and
public affairs committee of the Baptist Conven-
tion of Maryland/Delaware.

1976

MARRIAGE: Richard O. (Witt) Whitaker and
Diane T. Wagner on Feb. 22, 1986, in Hershey,
Pa. Whitaker has joined an embryo transfer com-
pany as a senior staff veterinarian.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William R. Cogar, a
daughter, Margaret Collins, on July 15, 1986, in
Richmond. Cogar is vice president of institutional
sales for Wheat First Securities in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. Hunt Hardinge, a
daughter, Hannah Gunnell, on Feb. 25, 1986. The
family lives in Hagerstown, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. McDonough,
a daughter, Cassandra Lee, on March 10, 1986.
McDonough is a vice president of institutional
sales at McDonald & Co. Securities and lives in
Morristown, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. B. Craig Owens, a son,
Boyce Robert Owens, on Nov. 30, 1986. Owens
is vice president of South/Central Group, Coca-
Cola Enterprises.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Willard T. Sigler, a son,

 

 

Hal, on Jan. 1, 1986. He joins a brother, Walker,
4. Sigler is a recently licensed professional land
surveyor and is a partner in Berkley-Howell &
Associates in Lynchburg, Va.

James C. Gould has been appointed to serve as
chief tax counsel to the U.S. Senate Finance Com-
mittee for the 100th Congress.

John L. Gray Jr. has been named director of
marketing for Kessler Enterprise, a real estate and
investment company active in newly chartered
bank formation.

David J. Knack was recently selected for a pro-
motion to major in the U.S. Army. He is an opera-
tions research analyst for the training and doctrine
command at Fort Monroe, Va. Knack served on
staffs and commanded companies in the U.S. and
Korea. In conjunction with his Asian tour of du-
ty, he and his wife, Peggy, visited Alaska, Seoul,
Hong Kong, Singapore, and Bangkok. He has
recently published an article in Army Magazine.

Brian M. Levine and his wife and children Shirah,
5, Ali, 3, and Aaron, 1, have recently moved to
Nokomis, Fla.

David S. Martin reports that Martin Motors has
just celebrated its fourth anniversary. His wife,
Laura, continues to write and is now full time with
the Atlanta Journal/Constitution. She has received
her third book contract from the Globe Pequot
Press. They have both recently become active in
the Beyond War Foundation.

P. Shepherd Rouse III has returned from Califor-
nia to become vintner of Mont Domaine Winery
in Scottsville, Va. Rouse and his wife have an
18-month-old daughter.

1977

 

10th Reunion May 7-9

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William F. Beauchamp, a
daughter, Allyson Bradshaw, on Aug. 4, 1986, in
Lutherville, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John R. Downey, a
daughter, Elizabeth Catherine, on April 21, 1986.
She is their third child. Downey has become
associated with Alfred J. Dickinson Inc., a real
estate firm in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Wayne G. Edwards, a
daughter, Melissa Lauren, on Oct. 17, 1986. The
family lives in Merrick, N.Y.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Sinclair J. Harcus Jr., a
son, Alexander Bruce. He joins a brother, John,
3. Harcus is busy with his private family medical
practice in Martinsville, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey W. Parker, a
daughter, Katherine Doris, on Oct. 14, 1986. She
joins three brothers, ages 2, 4, and 7. Parker is
currently in private practice with the law firm of
Niles, Dulaney, and Parker in Remington, Va.

William S. Gee changed law firms in June 1986.
He is now a partner with Saul, Ewing, Renich &
Saul, a Philadelphia-based firm with an office in
Wilmington, Del.

Joseph E. Kane was presented the ‘‘Hon. Ben-
jamin A. Rimm Award”? which is given annually
by the Atlantic (N.J.) County Bar Association to
the Outstanding young lawyer in recognition of ac-
complishments as an attorney-at-law, dedication
to the legal profession, public service, and civic
and philanthropic service to fellow citizens. Kane

 

is assistant county counsel in Atlantic County and
lives in Mays Landing, N.J.

As a foreign service officer, Benjamin M. Lowe
was just promoted to the grade of FS-3, which is
approximately the equivalent of a major in the Ar-
my. He finished a two-year assignment this past
May as vice consul in Cape Town, South Africa,
and is currently assigned as refugee and migration
officer at the American Embassy in Kuala Lum-
pur, Malaysia. Lowe’s responsibility is for the
Vietnamese refugees who continue to pass through
Malaysia in large numbers. His wife, Debbie,
teaches in the cultural orientation program for
unaccompanied minor refugees.

Bradford Neil Martin (See 1974.)

Samuel E. Thompson is a residential mortgage
loan officer with ICA Mortgage in Atlanta.

Paul H. Thomson was elected to a four-year term
as commonwealth’s attorney for the city of Win-
chester in November 1985. He maintains a private
practice in Winchester, where he lives with his wife,
Anna Cote Gildersleeve. He attended W&L’s Legal
Ethics Institute in November 1986.

Pamela J. White was appointed by the Maryland
Court of Appeals to serve as a member of the
Board of Examiners. She is a partner in the
Baltimore firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes & Shriver
and is a member of the W&L Law Council.

Capt. John Paul Woodley Jr. (See 1974).

1978

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark T. Coberly, a
daughter, Lauren Elizabeth, on Oct. 24, 1986, in
Norfolk, Va. Coberly is a partner in the law firm
of Vandeventer, Black, Meredith & Martin.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael E. Falcone, a
daughter, Alyssa Michelle, on Sept. 27, 1986.
Falcone is an actuary for the firm of Miller, Mason
& Dickenson in Conshohocken, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David A. Tumen, a son,
James Adam, on Oct. 8, 1986, in Columbus, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Roy David Warburton, a
daughter, Christine Caroline, on Aug. 22, 1986.
She joins brothers Daniel, 2, Tom, 10, Jack, 8,
and a sister, Rebekkah, 6.

Arthur A. (Lex) Birney Jr. lives in Annapolis, Md.,
where he owns and operates a sailing school and

charter boat business. He recently completed a sail-
ing race to Bermuda and back and sailed to St.

Thomas in November. Birney and his wife have
a daughter, Helen, 3.

Alexander H. Bishop IV has left teaching after five
most enjoyable years. He is now working in sales
and promotions for the Baltimore Blast, a profes-
sional indoor soccer team. Bishop is also pursu-
ing his interest in sports broadcasting.

William M. Ewing Jr. directed the first Interna-
tional Conference on Asbestos in October 1986 in
London, England. The first of his two books will
be published this spring by the Fairmont Press.
It is titled Procedures and Practices for Asbestos
Abatement. Ewing will spend two months conduct-
ing environmental research in Alaska this winter.

Erik S. Greenbaum is now a market research
analyst for Merck, Sharp & Dohme. He, his wife,
Elizabeth, and their daughter, Virginia, are now
living in Gwynedd, Pa.

Dr. Robert H. Jackson reports that The Martin
Luther King Health Center, the non-profit cor-
poration he founded in November 1985 to provide
free medical care to the poor, continues to do well.
Jackson is an instructor in medicine at LSU
Medical Center in Shreveport and attending physi-
cian at LSU Hospital.

Thomas Joel Loving is currently a member of the
general faculty of the University of Virginia en-
vironmental health and safety department in
Charlottesville. He recently established Thomas
Joel Loving Environmental Health Consulting
Inc., specializing in environmental air quality
analyses and asbestos abatement monitoring.

Richard B. McDaniel is product manager for
Universal Medical Instruments and lives in
Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

Dr. Robert N. Mucciola and his wife, Margaret,
and daughter, Nicole, are currently stationed at
the U.S. Army Hospital in Stuttgart, Germany,
where he is on the staff of the ob-gyn department.
He says the family is enjoying travels through
Europe, and they welcome guests.

Donald G. Smith Jr. is currently in private prac-
tice as a family physician in Roanoke, Va.

Ronald W. Spain is currently director of sales at
Maurice Spain & Sons Inc., his family’s jewelry
manufacturing firm. He and his wife, Joan, have
a daughter, Allison Rose, 2. They live in Summit,

N.J.
1979

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John F. McIntyre Jr, a son,
John Francis III, on April 27, 1986, in West
Chester, Pa.

William R. Mauck Jr. is in the corporate section
of the Richmond law firm of Williams, Muller,
Christian & Dobbins.

Mark F. Prysi has moved to Chattanooga, Tenn.,
to do a two-year plastic surgery fellowship with
the University of Tennessee. He recently finished
a general surgery residency at the University of
Alabama in Birmingham.

1980

MARRIAGE; C. Hunt Shuford Jr. and Nancy
Blair Phillips on Sept. 20, 1986, in Hickory, N.C.
Groomsmen included Landon R. Wyatt III, ’79,
and R. Gordon Grubb, ’82. The couple lives in
Atlanta, where Shuford is vice president of institu-
tional sales for Johnson, Lane, Space, Smith & Co.

MARRIAGE: Scott A. Williams and Mary R.
Buckle on May 24, 1986, in University Chapel in
Charlottesville, Va. Both graduated from the

W&L 35

 

University of Virginia’s Colgate Darden Graduate
School of Business Administration. They live in
New York City, where he works for Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co. in corporate finance.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence H. Bryant, a
daughter, Nancy Chamberlin, on July 8, 1986.
Bryant is an associate attorney with the law firm
of Scanelli and Shapiro in Norfolk, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Clay Crumbliss, a
daughter, Elizabeth Brooke, on May 3, 1986. The
family lives in Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

David C. Allen received his master of science
degree in education from the University of Penn-
sylvania in May 1986. He now teaches fifth-grade
learning disabled students at the Pilot School in
Wilmington, Del.

Jesse B. Beale is a partner in a newly formed Rich-
mond law firm, Boone, Beale, Cosby & Hyder.

Gregory B. Dyer was admitted as a partner in the
accounting firm of Lively, Rutland & Dyer on
Nov. 1, 1986. One of his new partners is Marshall
E. Rutland, ’78. Dyer lives in Bethesda, Md.

Albert K. Fernandez is the executive officer of a
maritime law enforcement unit with the U.S. Coast
Guard in Puerto Rico. Fernandez and his wife,
Nancy, have a son, Albert Joseph, 1.

Thomas E. Goss Jr. lives in Cleveland, where he
is with the investment firm of McDonald & Co.
Securities Inc. in equity syndication. He recently
ran in the New York City Marathon.

Dr. William H. Matthai Jr. will start a cardiology
fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania
Hospital in July 1987.

Barbara Ridley Monroe (See 1982).

Capt. Carl E. Perry is currently the chief of the
claims section of the Staff Judge Advocate’s Of-
fice in Fort McClellan, Ala. Perry will be leaving
the Army in September 1987 to enter civilian law
practice.

Christopher T. Porter was recently promoted to
vice president at Kidder Peabody & Co. in New
York City.

Thomas J. Schetelich has become a partner in the
Baltimore law firm of Allen, Thieblot & Alex-
ander. He and his wife, Vicky, live in Carney, Md.

Jesse M. Shaver III is a senior consultant in the
strategic management services group of Peat Mar-
wick’s Dallas office.

Patricia A. Woodward opened her own law of-
fice on Nov. 1, 1986, in Warrenton, Va. She was
formerly a partner with Fischel & Woodward in
Warrenton.

1981

MARRIAGE: Kevin R. Bell and Kathryn S. Noll
on Jan. 18, 1986, in Washington, D.C. The cou-
ple lives in Baltimore, where Bell is an investment
broker with Alex Brown & Sons Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven W. Hellberg,
twins—a son, Eric William, and a daughter,
Allison Reilly, on Oct. 28, 1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edwin S. Ryan Jr., a
daughter, Emily Evans, on Nov. 13, 1986. The
family lives in Littleton, Colo.

Homer A.C. Bliss is the assistant state’s attorney
and lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

Capt. Vincent Coviello is company commander of
Alpha Company 426th Signal Battalion in Fort
Bragg, N.C.

James T. Coyle Jr. is president of Cognitive

36 — W&L

 

Judge Truman Hobbs in Montgomery, Ala.

 

Will Hill Tankersley (left) and Robert Haney Benfield, both ’79, climbed to Uhuru, the summit
of Mount Kilimanjaro, the tallest mountain in Africa. Before the climb, they spent a week in
the northern bush country of Tanzania, and after the climb, they traveled to the coast of Kenya.
Benfield is an attorney with Austin Katz and Assoc. in Atlanta. Tankersley is a law clerk for

 

 

 

 

 

Systems Inc., a small custom software develop-
ment firm in Atlanta. CSI is now in its fourth year
of business.

Edward R. Foy has returned to his hometown of
Enterprise, Ala. He and his wife, Robin, have two
sons, Robert and William.

R. Christopher Gammon is an assistant vice presi-
dent with the international division of First
Wachovia Bank. In May 1986 he and his wife,
Ruth, moved to London where Gammon has cor-
porate banking responsibilities.

Stuart A. Mason has been promoted from agent
to supervisor with the Port Authority in New York
City.

M. Victor McLaughlin is in his second year of
residency in general surgery at the New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in New York
City.

J. Ross Newell III is an associate with the Rich-
mond law firm of Christian, Barton, Epps, Brent
and Chappell.

D. Bruce Poole has been elected to a four-year
term in the Maryland legislature.

Daniel J. Raskin is a human performance in-
vestigator with the National Transportation Safety
Board in Washington, D.C. He travels throughout
the world investigating aviation, marine, railroad,
and highway accidents. He lives in Cockeysville,
Md.

W. Currin Snipes Jr. has been the Gulf Coast
bureau chief for KHOV-TV in Houston since
February 1986. He lives in Galveston with his wife,
Frances. In late June he sailed to New York aboard
the Elissa, one of the tall ships participating in the
Statue of Liberty celebration.

1982
5th Reunion May 7-9

MARRIAGE: T. Stan Barnes Jr. and Tenley L.
Toole in Tallahassee, Fla., on May 10, 1986.
Members of the wedding party included classmates

Barry R. Dunn and Charles H. Prioleau; H.
Bowen Woodruff, ’83; and John P. Walsh Jr., ’83.
Barnes graduated from the MBA program at
Emory University in May 1986 and is an analyst
for the corporate investment department of
Metropolitan Life.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James E. Dunn Jr., a son,
James E. III on March 18, 1986, in Charlotte,
N.C. The family has moved to Nashville, Tenn.,
where Dunn is assistant vice president of First
Union National Bank.

BIRTH: Susan May Eckman and Richard P.
Eckman, a daughter, Katharine Christian, on Oct.
27, 1986, in Wilmington, Del. She joins a sister,
Elizabeth, 2.

Thomas G. Baker Jr. is in private law practice in
Dublin, Va. He was voted an Outstanding Young
Man of America in 1985. He is a member of the
Virginia Republican Party and is the former vice
chairman of the Radford City Republican Com-
mittee. He was also on the joint advisory commit-
tee of the city of Radford and Radford University.

Paul M. Black recently completed a federal
clerkship and has joined the Richmond law firm
of Mays & Valentine as an associate in the litiga-
tion department.

William F.L. Brown is a stock trader with
Johnston, Lemon & Co. in Washington, D.C.

Preston S. Copenhaver II is currently living in
Richmond and is in the corporate finance group
of Sovran Bank’s investment banking services.

William A. DuPre IV graduated from the Univer-
sity of Georgia law school in May 1986 and join-
ed Hine & Carroll as an associate in July.

Lt. Johnna L. Faber is a command judge advocate
for naval security group activity in Misawa, Japan.

Capt. Douglas R. Linton III was recently selected
as commander of B Company, 16th Signal Bat-
talion, 3rd Signal Brigade, at Fort Hood, Texas.

Robert D. McLean Jr. is an attorney for Holland
& Knight in Bradenton, Fla.

Charles P. Monroe, formerly defense counsel for
Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., has recently joined

 

 

the firm of Friedlander, Misler, Friedlander, Sloan
& Hertz in Washington, D.C. His wife, Barbara
Ridley Monroe, ’80L, is associate registrar at the
Georgetown University Law Center. They have
two sons, Christopher, 2, and Jonathan, three
months. The Monroes live in Alexandria, Va.

Ensign Thornton C. Nelson was recently graduated
from the U.S. Navy’s basic civil engineer corps of-
ficer course. Nelson joined the Navy Reserve in
October 1984.

John B. (Buzzy) Riis is practicing law with the firm
of Vickers, Riis, Murray & Corran in Mobile, Ala.

Amy K. Turner is a legal services attorney for the
Appalachian Research and Defense Fund of Ken-
tucky, Inc., which provides representation in civil
matters to low-income clients in Hazard, Ky.

1983

MARRIAGE: D. Christian Graham and Jodie
Elizabeth Schronce on April 12, 1986, in Lin-
colnton, N.C. Graham works for Jefferson-Pilot
Communications. The couple lives in Iron Station,
N.C.

MARRIAGE; R. Lee Nichols and Holly Fay Hen-
ton on July 12, 1986, in Jackson, Tenn. Nicholas
W. Teare, ’83, was a groomsman. The couple lives
in Memphis, Tenn., where Nichols is a fourth-year
medical student at the University of Tennessee and
is interviewing for orthopedic surgery residencies.

MARRIAGE: Howard H. Smith and Lisa
Franklin in Atlanta on July 26, 1986. They live
in New York City. Smith works with MTV Net-
works as an account manager in New England.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Christopher T. Hale, a
daughter, Kathleen Erin, on Sept. 20, 1986, in
Milwaukee. Hale is with the law firm of Quarles
& Brady. The family resides in Milwaukee.

Henry Baey is currently managing two companies,
one in Miri, in the East Malaysian state of
Sarawak, and one in Brunei, which is two hours
by jeep across the Brunei-Malaysian border. His
home is in Singapore.

James L. Baldwin Jr. graduated in May 1986 from
Southern Methodist University School of Law,
passed the July bar exam, and is now practicing
law with Berman, Fichtner & Mitchell, doing com-
mercial litigation and bankruptcy. He lives in
Dallas.

William W. Berghel is associated with the actuarial
firm of Buck Associates in Atlanta. He and his
wife, Jill, live in Roswell, Ga.

Lawrence H. Bryant (See 1980).

Howard E. Gill III is finishing his last year at
Eastern Virginia Medical School and hopes to be
starting a family practice residency program next
year.

Gerald I. Moyer is a mortgage broker for
Washington (D.C.) Mortgage Group. One of his
roommates is Peter O. Moore, ’83.

Robert S. Perrot recently resigned from General
Electric and has joined the engineering department
of Northrop on the West Coast.

MARRIAGE: Stephen W. Lemon and Patricia L.
Haas on May 31, 1986. Lemon expects to graduate

rom Vanderbilt University School of Law in May
987.

MARRIAGE: Kirk R. Mancer and Anne R.
€nderson in Birmingham, Ala., on Nov. 22,
1986. Groomsmen included Fred Herbert (Tad)

Renner III, ’85, and Christopher K. Davis, 84,
Mancer is a copywriter for the National
Republican Senatorial Committee. The couple lives
in Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. Robert Jones, a son,
Daniel Joseph, on Sept. 11, 1986. The family lives
in Midland, Texas, where Jones works with the
law firm Cotton, Bledsoe, Tighe and Dawson.

Charles W. Alcorn is pursuing a master’s degree
in creative writing at the University of Southern
Mississippi. He and his wife, Annette, live in Hat-
tiesburg, Miss.

Lewis M. Allen has gone from working full time
to working part time at the law firm of Cabaniss,
Johnston ef a/ in Birmingham, Ala., in order to
devote time to his painting and sculpting. Allen
and his wife, Neysa, will return to Virginia in May
1987 after she receives her degree from the Univer-
sity of Alabama School of Optometry.

Andrew E. Clark has been promoted to the posi-
tion of senior accountant with Peat Marwick Mit-
chell & Co. in Baltimore.

1st Lt. John D. Cole has been decorated with the
second award of the Army Achievement Medal in
West Germany. The Achievement Medal is award-
ed to soldiers for meritorious service, acts of
courage, or other accomplishments. Cole is a pla-
toon leader with the 9th Engineer Battalion.

Peter G. Collins graduated from Southern
Methodist University’s law school and is working
in the oil and gas business in Dallas.

David H. Denby Jr. is a trust officer with First
Union National Bank in Jacksonville, Fla.

Gregory L. Flentje has entered his second year in
the medical scholars program at the University of
Illinois. He is studying medicine and communica-
tions in a joint M.D.-Ph.D. program.

G. Richard Grainger Jr., owner of Rich’s Designer
Ice Cream, has sold one franchise and expects to
open in Dallas and Austin, Texas, in the near
future. Grainger started the corporation in Tyler,
Texas, in 1985.

David R. Harcus was recently promoted to
laboratory specialist at the University of Virginia,
where he continues to work on a diagnostic test
for the bacteria that causes whooping cough.

David C. Judge left his job at the Chase Manhat-
tan Bank in July 1986 to accept a new position as
assistant vice president in corporate banking for
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in New
York City.

Glenn L. Kirschner was awarded the Trustees’
Academic Scholarship by the board of trustees of
the New England School of Law for completing
the 1985-86 academic year as the number two stu-
dent in his class.

Jeffrey W. Knapp is a first-year law student at the
University of Pennsylvania.

Alan E. McQuiston completed his MBA at Col-
umbia University and now works as an assistant
account executive at D’Arcy, Masius, Benton &
Bowles advertising in New York City.

In September 1986 1st Lt. G.L. Buist Rivers III
returned from a year’s tour of duty in Korea. He
is now battalion fire direction officer with 5/29
FA at Fort Carson, Colo.

Christoph P. Robinson is working for Touche
Ross and Co. in Dusseldorf, Germany. He is also
a graduate student at the University of South
Carolina in the international school of business.

Russell R. Rosler is at the Cornell University law

 

TE

school and plans to join the Columbus, Ohio, law
firm of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease in
September 1987.

1st Lt. Parker B. Schenecker is currently serving
as aide-de-camp to commander AAFES-Europe.
He is stationed in Munich.

Stewart T. Shettle has
been elected a U.S. bank-
ing officer by the board
of directors of Barnett
Banks of Florida Inc. He .
calls on Fortune 500 ‘_ ~
companies that have their ¥

headquarters in the
Carolinas, Tennessee, f ,
and Kentucky. He lives

in Jacksonville.

E. Sloan Shoemaker is a_ professional
photographer in Aspen, Colo. He plans to return
to school within the next year to pursue a master
of fine arts degree in photography.

1st Lt. Donald B. Smith is working as the assis-
tant S-3 at the U.S. Army Training Center in Fort
Bliss, Texas.

Lever F. Stewart III (See Virginia M. Greer, ’85).

G. Leighton Stradtman is in his third year at
Vanderbilt University’s law school.

J. Berry Trimble is employed as the administrator
of political projects and programs with the Na-
tional Restaurant Association in Washington,
D.C.

Timothy A. Valliere is now general manager of
the University of Scranton Bookstore in Scranton,
Pa. Valliere had previously been working with
Follett/United College Bookstores Inc., a lease
company that runs bookstores for colleges and
universities.

Edwin D. Vaughan III is working on his MBA in
health care administration at Bernard Baruch Col-
lege in New York City.

   
 

Warren B. Watkins plans to graduate from Wake
Forest’s MBA program in May 1987.

Michael S. Wyatt is a real estate broker with
Kelley-Lundeen Inc. in Dallas.

1985

MARRIAGE: Virginia M. Greer and Lever F.
Stewart III, ’84L, on Oct. 4, 1986, in Charlot-
tesville, Va. They live in Atlanta where he is with
King & Spalding and she is with Trust Co. Bank.

MARRIAGE: Joseph C. O’Neill and Jennifer
Herdelin on June 21, 1986. Classmates Thomas
E. Wiser, J. Pat O’Connell Jr., Craig A.
WestBrook, Gary R. Clements, David L. Harrar,
and Jeffrey S. Reichert and Jeffrey N. Herdelin,
"81, were in the wedding party.

J. Cole Dawson III is working in the Houston of-
fice of Salomon Brothers investment bank.
David A. Eustis is continuing studies in philosophy
at the University of Edinburgh.

David E. Green is working in the Greenville, S.C.,
area as a project specialist for Milliken & Co.

Stephen C. Hartigan is a real estate appraiser with
Seamen’s Bank for Savings in New York City.

2nd Lt. Daniel M. Jayne is stationed at Fort Sam
Houston in Texas and is working toward a
master’s degree in physical therapy.

Mark D. Knobloch is a corporate credit analyst
for Equitable Bank in Baltimore.

W&L 37

 

Keith D. MacDougall is finishing his second and
final year at Hunter College in New York City
where he is working on his master’s degree in Rus-
sian area studies. During the summer of 1986, he
worked for U.S. Sen. Charles E. Grassley in
Washington, D.C., on Soviet-related issues.

John D. Maclay Jr. is an MBA candidate at the
-University of Texas at Austin.

William R. Mauck Jr. (See 1979).

Marc F. Monyek is a financial analyst in the
treasury department of McDonald’s Corp. and is
a graduate student at the University of Chicago
Graduate School of Business.

D. Bruce Poole (See 1981).

Layton L. Register has moved to Columbus, Ohio,
to work at Bank One, Columbus, as a division
project specialist in the retail sales and service
division.

David A. Sizemore is a staff accountant with Price
Waterhouse in Winston-Salem, N.C.

Daniel L. Tatum is in his second year at the
University of Houston Law Center.

Francis B. (Jensie) Teague is working in the real
estate finance division for Sovran Financial Corp.
in Norfolk, Va.

R. Alan Winstead has earned a master’s degree
from the divinity school at the University of
Chicago. Winstead has moved to Cleveland, Ohio,
where he will be associate director of admissions
at the Gilmour Academy in Gates Mills, Ohio.

Peter M. Wright is a reporter for WDBJ-TV, the
Roanoke, Va., CBS affiliate. He works in the
Blacksburg, Va., bureau.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stephen E. Dunn, a son,
Stephen Michael, on Aug. 5, 1986. Dunn practices

law with Randall J. Trost, ’77, in Lynchburg, Va.

Lawrence S. Anker is studying chemistry in Wurz-
burg, West Germany, and working under a grant
from the Fulbright/DAAD Commission. He is
also coaching the American High School wrestling
team in Wurzburg. In August 1987, he will start
Ph.D. studies at Pennsylvania State University.

W. Watson Barnes is working in corporate
development for First Union National Bank in
Charlotte, N.C.

2nd Lt. Richard A.O. Bennett is completing a
master of science degree in physiology at the
Medical College of Virginia in Richmond while on
an educational delay from the U.S. Army.

2nd Lt. John-Paul Bouffard has entered the F. Ed-
ward Hebert School of Medicine in Bethesda, Md.
The school provides accredited, graduate-level
medical training to members of the Army, Navy,
Air Force, and the U.S. Public Health Service.
Bouffard is in the Air Force.

Guy A. Caldwell is attending the University of
Tennessee in Knoxville. He is in the graduate pro-
gram in biotechnology in pursuit of a career in
genetic engineering.

James M. Clifton Jr. is working for First Union

National Bank in Charlotte, N.C., as a corporate
associate.

Dain Dulaney is in his first year at Wake Forest’s
law school.

John B. Lewis is working for Central Fidelity Bank
in Lynchburg, Va., in the management trainee pro-
gram. He will be a commercial lending officer
upon completion of the program.

38 —- W&L

 

 

1987 Alumni Travel Programs

THREE W&L GROUP TRAVEL OPPORTUNITIES
TO “GET AWAY” THIS YEAR

GRAND TOUR OF FRANCE

May 30-June 11, 1987
(C&S Travel, Ltd.)

Approximately $2,150 Per Person
Double Occupancy

Exclusive, value-packed trip featuring Giverny, Normandy, the Loire
Valley and five nights in Paris. Dulles to Paris non-stop on TWA and return
included.

QUEEN ELIZABETH 2 AND LONDON

July 15-July 24, 1987 from $2,599 Per Person
(INTRAV) Double Occupancy
Plus Air Fare

Five days of luxury on a transatlantic crossing from New York aboard
the fabled QE2; then four exciting nights in London. Fly home the fastest
way on a supersonic Concorde flight ($799).

CRUISE TO BERMUDA

$799-$995 Per Person
Double Occupancy

October 18-24,1987
(Accent Tours, Inc.)

The perfect fall getaway; seven days cruising on the SS Bermuda Star

“to St. George’s and Hamilton. Attractively priced with departure from and

return to Newport News, Va.

For brochures with full details, write or call the W&L Alumni Office, Lex-
ington, VA 24450, (703) 463-8464.

 

REQUEST FOR BROCHURES

Please send me brochure information on:
Grand Tour of France QE2 and London
Cruise to Bermuda

Name Class

Address

 

Zip

 

 

 

Robert G. McCullough is an assistant to the
treasurer’s office at Comdata Network in
Nashville, Tenn.

Brian J. Oliger has been named assistant director
of promotions of WNCX-FM (98.5) in Cleveland,
Ohio. He had been working at WMMS-
FM/WHK-AM in Cleveland as an engineering
assistant and production engineer.

McGowin I. Patrick is working for Trust Co. Bank
in the commercial banking training program in
Atlanta. He is also serving as a United Way
volunteer. ,

Eleanor (Nora) A. Putnam is with the Los Angeles
law firm of Breidenbach, Swainston, Crispo and
Way.

William S. W. Rush, William T. Holmes II, and
J. Scott Schreiber are working in Australia for the
year. They plan to do some touring of the coun-
try, including attending the America’s Cup.

J. Christopher Spear will graduate from the U.S.
Army Signal Officer Basic Course in February
1987.

Pvt. 1st Class Timothy D. Thomas has completed
basic training at Fort Leonard Wood., Mo.

Joseph G. Whelan III is a first-year medical stu-
dent at the University of Kentucky College of
Medicine and is doing research on a diagnostic
blood test to detect Duchenne’s muscular
dystrophy.

C. Harris White has joined the commercial bank-
ing area of Trust Co. Bank in Atlanta.

 

In Memoriam

 

1917

George Ellis Covington, former chairman of the
board of the Bank of Hazelhurst, died June 28,
1986. He was a second lieutenant in the Army-
Tank Corps before his discharge in December
1918. He was secretary, treasurer, and manager
of the Magnolia Cotton Oil Co. in Mississippi and
in 1948 became the vice president of the Mississippi
Cottonseed Products Co. in Jackson. He was a
Shriner and an Elk.

1926

John Fuller Caldwell of Montgomery, Ala., died
July 3, 1986.

Paul Martin Schuchart of Harrisburg, Pa., died
Sept. 30, 1986. After four years of meritorious ser-
vice in the Signal Corps during World War II, he
returned to his career in the communications in-
dustry, working with the Virginia Telephone &
Telegraph Co. in Charlottesville. He moved to
Tallahassee, Fla., to become vice president and
general manager of the Southeastern Telephone
Co. and later became associated with the Florida
Railroad and Public Service Commission. He was
also president of the Florida Telephone Associa-
tion. Schuchart later served as head of the Wire
Communications Federal Civil Defense Ad-
ministration in Washington, D.C. He held many
committee positions on the National Association
of Regulatory Commissioners (NARUC) and
Tepresented the NARUC and the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania in various proceedings before the
FCC. He had several articles published in

Telephone Engineer & Management, Telephone,
and Public Utility Fortnightly. In addition to his
many positions and honors in the communications
business, Schuchart was active as a member of the
faculty advisory committee of the engineering
school at Iowa State University, where he par-
ticipated in the annual regulatory conference, and
as a member of the board of trustees at Pine Street
Presbyterian Church in Harrisburg.

1928

George Floyd Turlington of Onancock, Va., died
April 10, 1986. He was a former dealer of
wholesale office equipment for Smith Corona

Corp.
1929

William Shores Price, former president of Texas-
Fore Assoc. Inc. and vice president of Fidelity and
Deposit Co. of Maryland, died Nov. 26, 1986.
After leaving W&L’s law school, where he was a
member of Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity, he was
admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of
the United States and became a member of the
Virginia bar. He was founder and first president
of the Houston chapter of the National Surety
Association. Price held a lifetime membership in
the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo, as well
as membership in the Houston Club,
Thoroughbred Club of America, and Sons of the
American Revolution.

1930

Dr. James William Tankard of Newport News,
Va., died Aug. 25, 1986. Upon leaving Lexington,
Tankard entered the University of Pennsylvania
Medical School, where he graduated in 1933. He
stayed in Philadelphia as an intern for two years
before training in surgery at the Buffalo General
Hospital in Buffalo, N.Y. Tankard practiced in
southwest Virginia and Kentucky for a couple of
years before settling in Newport News, Va., to
practice surgery and medicine. In 1942, he entered
World War IJ as a first lieutenant. During his three
years of service he achieved two promotions and
served as head of a surgical team in the 67th
Evacuation Hospital that functioned in England,
Luxembourg, Belgium, Germany, and
Czechoslovakia. He returned to his private surgical
and gynecological practice in Newport News in
January 1945. Tankard was accepted as a fellow
of the American College of Surgeons and the
Southeastern Surgical Congress. He was also a
member of the American Medical Association, the
American Society of Abdominal Surgeons, and the
Virginia State Medical Society. He was president
of the Newport News Medical Society and the
Newport News Kiwanis Club. He was also a
member of the James River Country Club, the
Warwick Yacht Club, and First United Methodist

Church.
1931

John Pierce Armstrong of Rogersville, Tenn., died
March 11, 1986. After graduating summa cum
laude and Phi Beta Kappa from W&L, he joined
Fidelity Bankers Trust Co. in Knoxville, Tenn.
During World War II, he served as a lieutenant
in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific Theatre. He return-
ed to Rogersville to become associated with Rod
Armstrong and Co. He eventually became co-
owner of the company, which has been run by his
family for more than 90 years and is one of the
oldest retail establishments in the state. Armstrong
was a trustee and deacon of the Rogersville
Presbyterian Church.

1932

John Goadby Hamilton, former chairman of the
board of Redpath Inc., died Nov. 14, 1986.
Hamilton was a former salesman for the brokerage
firm of Dominick & Dominick. He later became
secretary-treasurer of Texstyle Inc., which
specialized in various curtains and drapes. In Cin-
cinnati, Hamilton was a member of several com-
munity groups, including the Cincinnati Country
Club, the Banker’s Club, and the board of the
Y.M.C.A. He was also a member of the Edgar-
town, Mass., Yacht Club, the Reading Room
Association, and the Golf Club. In Fort Lauder-
dale, he was active in the Miami Club and the
Lagomar Country Club. He served as a junior
vestryman at the Church of the Redeemer and on
the board at Cincinnati Union Bethel.

1935

John Burton Nicholson Jr., former library direc-
tor of the University of Baltimore, died Oct. 14,
1986. Burton attended Columbia University where
he received his professional library degree in 1936.
In 1937 he worked as a reference librarian in the
Duke University Library before moving to Car-
lisle, Pa., to begin five years of service as assis-
tant librarian at Dickinson College. He returned
home to Cleveland, Ohio, in 1943 where he worked
for two years as head librarian at Cleveland State
University before his appointment as library direc-
tor at Kent State University. During Nicholson’s
22-year tenure at Kent State, the library’s holdings
increased from 30,000 to nearly 500,000 volumes.
He was also president of the Ohio Library Associa-
tion. Nicholson later moved to Baltimore and
became director of the University of Baltimore
Library. In 1977, he was elected executive direc-
tor of the board of directors of the Congress of
Academic Library Directors in Maryland. He was
a member of numerous library associations and
had several articles published in Library Quarter-
ly and Library Journal.

1936

Edward Scott Boze of Richmond, Va., died Nov.
10, 1986. He was the former president of Virginia
Suppliers Inc. Boze joined the U.S. Navy in
December 1941 and remained in the service for
four years. He was vice president of the Hopper
Paper Co. and of the Virginia Steel Co. before
joining Virginia Suppliers in 1963. Boze was a
member of the Country Club of Virginia, the
Commonwealth Club, Princess Anne Country
Club, and the River Club.

1937

Kirk Meek Baker, a native of Keokuk, Iowa, and
former secretary of Certified Ready Mixed Con-
crete Co., died May 26, 1986. He joined the U.S.
Coast Guard in 1941, where he served five years.
He managed Certified Ready Mix for 30 years
before his retirement. He was an organizer of the
Keokuk Yacht and Sailing Clubs and was also in-
volved in the creation of the Keokuk River
Museum. He served as president of the Keokuk
Rotary Club and treasurer of the Visiting Nurse
Association and was a member of St. John’s
Episcopal Church.

1939

Robert Thompson (Tom) Crawford, former presi-
dent and general manager of Crawford
Distributing Co., died Nov. 21, 1986. During
World War II he served as a captain in the U.S.
Marines. He joined the E.M. Crawford Grain Co.
in 1946. Crawford was also former president of

W&L 39

 

the Illinois Beer Distribution Association. He was
a trust officer at Millikin National Bank and a
board member of the United Way and Webster
Hall. He was a member of First Presbyterian
Church, the Crane Lake Club, the Decatur Club,
and the Junior Chamber of Commerce and former
president and secretary of the Country Club of
Decatur.

1940

Kelley Litteral died Oct. 26, 1986. Following
graduation he was with the Pittsburgh Steelers un-
til he joined the U.S. Army in 1942. He was a cap-
tain in the infantry and fought in the Battle of the
Bulge. After he was discharged, he enrolled in
George Washington University Law School. Lit-
teral was an attorney in Montgomery County,
Md., until his death.

Dr. Joseph Richard Mighell III, a retired physi-
cian from Mobile, Ala., died Nov. 3, 1986. After
graduating from W&L, Mighell entered Tulane
University Medical School where he graduated in
1944 and later became an assistant in obstetrics
and gynecology. While in New Orleans, he was
also an assistant visiting surgeon at a charity
hospital and a fellow in obstetrics and gynecology
at the Ochsner Medical Foundation. In addition,
he served as a medical officer and lieutenant in
the U.S. Naval Reserves.

1941
John Arch Gurkin Jr. of Norfolk, Va., died May
15, 1986. Following graduation, Gurkin went on
a five-year tour of duty in the Navy and was releas-
ed in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant commander.

He then joined his father’s electrical firm, Gurkin
Electrical Co., where he served as president for
10 years. After resigning from the company,
Gurkin began a law career. He was admitted to
the Virginia bar and joined the law firm of
Nusbaum & Alfriend in Norfolk, Va. He later was
counsel for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

Robert Holland Porter Jr., a native of Norfolk,
Va., died Oct. 4, 1986. He worked as a staff ac-
countant for Edmondson Led Better & Co. before
joining Hampton Roads Sanitation as treasurer
and director of finance in 1947. He was a member
of the Municipal Finance Officers Association of
the United States and Canada and received a ‘‘Cer-
tificate of Performance’’ for annual financial
reports. He was a frequent panelist and moderator
at the National Convention on Municipal Finance.
He was a board member and officer of the Ser-
toma Club and the Norfolk Municipal Employees
Credit Union. He was a member of the Norfolk
Kiwanis Club, the Norfolk Sports Club, and the
Epworth Methodist Church in Norfolk.

1946
Clarence (Clancy) Freeman Johnson Jr. of Dalton,
Ga., died Jan. 27, 1986. He was director of prod-
ucts for the Philadelphia Carpet Co. and
secretary/treasurer of the company until his retire-
ment in the late 1970s. He was a vice president and
general manager of Marbeth Carpet Mills for 10
years. He then joined Cabin Craft Inc., where he
worked as a vice president and merchandise
manager for the next decade. He was former presi-
dent of the Dalton Country Club, chairman of the

United Fund Drive, and senior warden/layreader
of St. Marks Episcopal Church. He was also presi-
dent of the Georgia State Exchange Clubs. He
served as a W&L class agent.

1951

Blair Jerome Harkett, an attorney from
McKeesport, Pa., died Nov. 9, 1986. After leav-
ing W&L, he served with the Army Air Force in
Italy. He was with State Farm Insurance Co. un-
til he resigned in June 1965 and began the private
practice of law in McKeesport. He was also the
former director of the Sterling Steel Co.

1952

Harold Jackson Powell of Charleston, W.Va.,
died Nov. 26, 1986. He was an attorney with the
West Virginia State Department of Highways.
Organizational membership included the Masonic
Lodge No. 153, Scottish Rite, Beni Kedem Tem-
ple, the Elks, and the American Legion. He was
a 30-year resident of Charleston and an Army
veteran of World War II.

Friends

Laura Powell Tucker Fletcher, longtime
housemother for Zeta Beta Tau fraternity, died
Nov. 29, 1986, in Fallston, Md. She was 93. Mrs.
Fletcher was the granddaughter of John Randolph
Tucker, who was dean of the W&L School of Law.
Her husband, Forest Fletcher, was head of the
department of physical education and the varsity
track coach at W&L. She served as housemother
to Phi Kappa Psi for a time and was housemother
for ZBT for 15 years, retiring in 1974. Following
her retirement, the ZBT chapter established a
scholarship in her honor.

 

Fancy Dress
Scheduled
For March 6

 

 

Washington and Lee’s 80th annual
Fancy Dress Ball will be held Friday,
March 6, in the Warner Center and
will feature the music of the Tommy
Dorsey Orchestra.

The Fancy Dress weekend will
begin on Thursday, March 5, with a
concert and dance in the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion and will continue with
the gala ball beginning at 8:30 p.m. on
Friday.

While the Tommy Dorsey Or-
chestra performs in the main ballroom
of Warner Center’s gymnasium, there
will be a variety of musical entertain-

ment offered in Doremus Gymnasium.

As in recent years, the Student Ac-
tivities Board, which plans and spon-
sors the event, is encouraging alumni
to attend. Tickets are $35 a couple and
can be obtained by writing the Student
Activities Board, University Center,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

For additional information, con-
tact the Student Activities Board at
(703) 463-8585.

The following list of area accom-
modations is provided to assist alum-
ni who plan to return for the event.

Accommodations
(Area Code 703)

Colony House 463-2195
Days Inn 463-9131
Econo Lodge 463-7371
Holiday Inn 463-7351
Natural Bridge Hotel 291-2121

Alexander-Withrow House 463-2044

Thrifty Inn 463-2151
McCampbell Inn 463-2044
Howard Johnson’s 463-9181
Keydet General 463-2143
Ramada Inn 463-6666
Comfort Inn 463-7311

 

40 W&L

 

 

 

It’s Bloomin’ Time
You Came Back

 

 

1987 Class Reunions

Spring into action and put W&L on your calendar
for
May 7, 8, & 9

Academic and Law Classes: 1937, 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957,
1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, 1982

(Note: All area motel rooms are reserved by the Alumni Association. Members of
reunion classes will receive reservation information by mail in March.)

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY -
Lexington, Virginia 24450

VUQUs:

L@ ye

 

Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage
PAID
Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

If Giving Depended on Tax Deductions,
W&L Would Have Perished Long Ago

Af _

SY ara FR hy 1 +e
‘om Pt ate heart Ee ae
ied ie -
ee ee eee ae bet
” seh
o ae

W&L hasn’t perished because of the generosity of
loyal and affectionate alumni, parents, and friends.
For almost 240 years that generosity has affirmed
time and time again that giving to the University
flows not from tax considerations, but from your
love of Washington and Lee, your belief in its ideals
and aspirations, and your unwavering resolution that
it shall not only endure, but thrive.

That’s why Washington and Lee is confident you
will continue your generous support regardless of
changes in the tax laws.

The Annual Fund
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

