 

 

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

 

 

March/April 1986

 

New Residence Hall Named For Gaines

   
  

wkd
>
eo

i ¥ A
es
7
4% tn
RR
EF
cd

ie:

a Var
es Ge

 

 

 

 

‘ial

ee J a r
Be \y Yon, >. ,
ty NE mt -~@a,.
(ER. eae, .
. a) By }
. ‘ ‘ A ae
' 8 ae Tie, 4 | PF ' eT a
A a Says ° { = , Mf S és
‘ ‘ HE B, 44 ay vs
a : & e AE
5 Or —T ‘ 2 RAY . Wad ‘ : : x :
Sates ae LAO ay a, 4 .
‘ee . me [2
: me * at y Cee tees t flys Oe . 2 = ES
, ae an, tet conte: : A
\ —_ ; ae = fc en
we: - mee ‘ . . ht, = ”. 5
B7 rey”: ae " Re 1@
e wmey : 17 iy 5 oy < at aoe era
5 eee
.

ay
Soy

   

a ga !
at} = : 4
eee (5 rTPA) : we? -
|
(am
Pe ee dr Rea tes

| el
we
>

 

Won began in January on Francis Pendleton Gaines
Residence Hall, a new $8.1 million facility that will house 249
students when it opens in September 1987.

Gaines Residence Hall will be located on the corner of
Washington and Nelson streets, across from the Warner Center.
Demolition of the existing buildings, including the old Coca-
Cola bottling plant, was the first step and will be followed by
site preparation.

While actual construction on the 71,000-square-foot building
was scheduled to begin in early April, the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees acted in February to name the new dormitory
in honor of Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, who was president
of Washington and Lee from 1930 to 1959.

‘Dr. Gaines guided the University through periods of
growth and prosperity, and times of war and controversy,”’ said
Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson. ‘‘It is fitting
and appropriate that the Trustees have chosen to honor Dr.
Gaines by giving his name to this major new building.”’

Gaines, who died on the last day of 1963 at his home in Lex-
ington at the age of 71, became president of Washington and
Lee while the country was in the grips of the Great Depression.
At a time when many colleges and universities were fighting
to survive, Washington and Lee continued to grow under
Gaines’ hand.

Throughout his presidency, Gaines attracted attention to
W&L through the eloquence of his public speaking at Univer-
sity convocations and elsewhere. After his death the Norfolk
Ledger-Star praised Gaines editorially, writing: ‘‘As an
educator, Dr. Gaines himself set the pattern. A university presi-
dent, he was no ivory-tower scholar; he was not even mainly
an administrator. He became education’s leading emissary to
the outside world, pleading for its larger, voluntary support.”’

The Gaines Residence Hall is being built in response to
changing housing patterns among Washington and Lee students.
Surveys indicate that there are currently students living off the
campus who would prefer on-campus housing. In addition, the
facility not only anticipates the modest growth of the

 

undergraduate student body to about 1,500 over the next several
years but its construction is based, in part, on the assumption
that women undergraduates will be less likely to want to live
off campus.

The new dormitory will house upperclass students. Previous-
ly, the Woods Creek Apartments represented the only major
site of on-campus housing for upperclass undergraduate
students while law students have lived in both Baker Dormitory
and Woods Creek.

The four-story building is in the Georgian style of architec-
ture and features a gate house with a cupola. According to Frank
A. Parsons, executive assistant to the president, the character
of the new residence hall will be similar in many respects to ex-
isting campus buildings.

‘‘A number of architectural details, such as the manner of
the brickwork, the limestone band around the first level, and
the cupola design, are features found elsewhere on the cam-
pus,’’ said Parsons.

The building was designed by the Richmond architectural
firm of Marcellus Wright Cox & Smith, which was responsible
for the design of both Lewis Hall and the University Library.

Half of the rooms in the new residence hall will be singles.
Most rooms are designed within suites, each of which will have
its own bath, living area, and closet space. Occupancy by men
and women is possible on the basis of suites, sections, or floors.

The gate house will feature a large multi-purpose room that
could be used for lectures, meetings, musical programs, and
other activities. Three other lounges, which include small con-
venience kitchens, will be located throughout the building.

Parsons said that the University has agreed to designate ini-
tially some 155 parking spaces for residents of the building. The
City of Lexington’s planning commission and city council
stipulated that the University provide adequate parking when
the site plan was approved.

The $8.1 million cost of the new residence hall will be financ-
ed through variable rate bonds sold by the Industrial Develop-
ment Authority of Rockbridge County.

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 61, Number 2, April 1986

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce HARRIS, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 750, President
Baltimore, Md.

Rice M. TILLEY Jr., °58, Vice President
Fort Worth, Texas

CHARLES R. BEALL, °56, 7reasurer
Martinsburg, W.Va.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DUBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, 63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HOWARD CaPITO, 68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73
Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFoRD JR., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

WAYNE D. McGrREw Jr., 52
Atlanta, Ga.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50
New York, N.Y.

PAUL J. B. Murpuy, 49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JrR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

JOHN Poynor, ’62
Birmingham, Ala.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 753
Darien, Conn.

STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L
Chicago, Ill.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class
postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

TO aeenS

ioe a0n de

_=ae——_———_—_——-E NT RANCE — ——————_

 

 

2 The University Theatre at 50

 

10 State of the University

 

14. ~—siRRassslin’ Bears

 

18 International Law and Terrorism

 

21 Powerful Persuaders

 

25 W&L Gazette

 

28 Generals’ Report

 

31 Alumni News

 

33. Class Notes

 

39 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Washington and Lee’s drama program brought on
the clowns last fall when two professional clowns from New York
spent a week in residence to work with undergraduates, including
our four cover clowns. See the story on page 6. Photo by W. Patrick
Hinely, ’73.

 

 

Mark Daughtrey, ’74, in The Man of Mode, a
1974 University Theatre production

 

Golden
Anniversary

W&L’s University Theatre
Celebrates Success

 

 

by Anne Coulling

‘“. . The Merchant of Venice opened a four-day engage-
ment featuring the most lavish scenery ever seen on a local
stage... . One of the outstanding features of the well-directed
production is its lavish, artistic scenery. The decorative work
blends magnificently with the unique lighting effects.’’

—The Ring-tum Phi, Dec. /3, 1935

“The University Theatre’s production of The Merchant of
Venice marks a significant accomplishment of fine
Shakespearean drama at Washington and Lee. The comedy ac-
complishes everything that it undertakes with few exceptions,
and in those areas where the play fails, only the professional
could take great offense.’’

—The Ring-tum Phi, Oct. 3], 1985

I, 1935, the Washington and Lee Troubadour Theatre open-
ed its doors to audiences for the first time with a production
of Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice. Judging from the
glowing reviews, that inaugural production was greeted with
enthusiasm. Half a century later, another Washington and Lee
cast presented a revival performance to commemorate the
golden anniversary. During the 50 years between those two
productions, much had changed: the faces of the performers,
for one, of course; but also the sets, the directors, the
costumes, and the scripts. One thing did not change, however:
even after so many years, Washington and Lee’s theatrical
organizations continue to stage productions of the highest
quality and continue to be rewarded, more often than not,
with glowing reviews.

The University Theatre’s 50th birthday is not the only an-
niversary being celebrated this year. The building itself is now
130 years old. Located on the corner of Main and Henry
streets, the structure was originally designed as a shoe factory.
And between the soles and the soliloquies, it served as a hard-
ware store, a dance hall, a pool hall, and a nickolodeon.

It was in 1929 that the Washington and Lee Troubadours,
who had been presenting their plays here and there for many
years, took over the building for use as a theatre workshop.
For the next six years, students constructed scenery and
rehearsed plays in the workshop, then transported everything

W&L 3

 

 

several blocks up Main Street to present
their performances in the Lyric Theatre.

Finally, in 1935, appropriations of
$1,300 from the Publications Board and
$600 from the student Executive Commit-
tee made it possible to renovate the
theatre and to give the Troubadours a
new, permanent home. Laurence E.
Watkins, faculty director of the
Troubadours, and Lewis McMurran, ’36,
the organization’s president, drew up
plans to remodel the building to house all
campus dramatic and musical activities.
The project was completed in mid-
December of that same year, just in time
for opening night of The Merchant of
Venice.

In their new facility, the Troubadours
continued to perform plays on a regular
basis. They operated primarily as an ex-
tracurricular organization, although a
faculty member served as their adviser. A
handful of theatre courses were taught
within the fine arts department, but
drama did not become a separate division
until 1970, when nine courses were
taught.

Today, the drama division offers 15
courses, ranging from introductory
classes to acting to costume and design.
Every other year students can even enroll
in a Spring Term program in London,
where they study and attend plays in one
of the world’s preeminent theatrical
centers. Drama majors are required to
take a total theatre course, in which they
are responsible for all aspects of play
production: from building scenery to
coordinating costumes and properties,
from organizing a publicity campaign to
acting in the show. Indeed, this course
requires so much absorption that some
students have even been known to sleep
on the set!

Albert C. Gordon has been head of
the drama division since 1974. According
to Gordon, the drama program at W&L
serves a twofold purpose: ‘‘. . . to give
students basic theatrical training and
eclectic experience in the theatre; and to
provide the community with a creative
outlet and with high-quality theatre enter-
tainment.’’

Theatre at Washington and Lee is
nothing if not eclectic. Through the
years, the theatre’s repertoire has includ-
ed light-hearted musicals and somber
dramas, Shakespearean comedies and
modern absurdist plays. Such diversity
became a trademark in the early 1960s
when Leonel Kahn became the senior
member of the drama division. The pro-
ductions Kahn directed ranged from

4 W&L

 

Peter Weiss’s The Investigation, a drama
about the trials of Nazi war criminals, to
the Restoration comedy The Man of
Mode. In 1974, Kahn arranged for Peter
Shaffer’s Equus to open on the
Washington and Lee stage just four days
after its New York premiere.

‘*Lee chose plays. that made you
think, that tried your capabilities,’’ says
Mark Daughtrey, ’74, who was a double
major—drama and journalism.

A play such as The Investigation
tested the mental and emotional abilities
of the actors: Kahn required them to
view photographs of World War II con-
centration camps in order to recreate the
characters involved in the Nazi trials.
Peter Shaffer’s The Royal Hunt of the
Sun, on the other hand, tried the talents
of the set designers and builders as well.
Of that production Daughtrey recalls:
‘‘The Inca Empire was conquered right
there on the W&L stage.”’

Robert Mish, ’76, majored in drama
and German at W&L and is now director
of the middle school and chairman of the

David Marsh,
86 (Bassanio)
and Susan Still
(Portia) in The
Merchant of
Venice

fine arts department at St. Anne’s-
Belfield School in Charlottesville. Mish
says this about Kahn’s impact on the
drama program at W&L: ‘‘He was never
afraid to do anything that was avant
garde or out of the ordinary. He wasn’t
worried about pleasing the audience. The
rehearsal, and not the actual perfor-
mance, was the most important part of
the production, because that was when
you learned the most.’’

The uncommon variety of the plays
performed each season at W&L has cer-
tainly helped Mish, who teaches a theatre
history course at St. Anne’s. “‘I actually
teach plays that I performed at W&L.
Because I have such a wide variety to
choose from, it gives me a much broader
perspective.”’

In the years since Daughtrey and Mish
left W&L, the drama division has con-
tinued its diverse offerings under Gor-
don’s direction. In this, the 5Oth-
anniversary year, the University Theatre’s
season includes Aristophanes’ bawdy
comedy Lysistrata; The Diaries of Viktor

 

 

 

2)

Mark Mitchell, ’78, (left) and G. Brock Johnson, ’76, as Nell and Nagg in 1975 production of Samuel Beckett’s Endgame

Frankenstein, written by associate pro-
fessor of drama Joseph Martinez; and
two student-directed shows, Bleacher
Bums and That Championship Season. In
addition, English actor Frank Barrie
visited the campus in the fall to perform
the one-man show Macready!, and two
professional clowns presented a produc-
tion and sponsored a clown workshop for
students. All that and The Merchant of
Venice, too.

One of the most exciting opportunities
available to students in recent years has
been the opportunity to perform in
brand-new works. Three shows by
Thomas Ziegler, associate professor of
drama and an accomplished playwright,
have had their world premieres on the
W&L stage.

‘*T think of this theatre as my own lit-
tle laboratory,’’ says Ziegler, whose play,
The Ninth Step, was performed in an
off-off Broadway theatre several years
after its debut in Lexington. ‘‘And my
style always has been to mix teaching and
writing. So it seemed natural to premiere

the shows here, and I have been very
pleased with the students’ performances.’’

From Ziegler’s original scripts to
Shakespeare’s time-tested ones, the
theatre program at Washington and Lee
is, above all else, varied. Its diversity is
particularly remarkable given its size. The
drama division is small, composed of
three faculty and, this year, eight majors.
But most students see this as an advan-
tage, for it allows a greater outlet for
creativity, more opportunities for par-
ticipation. Virtually everyone can become
involved in drama at Washington and
Lee.

Tom Brickel, ’89, is a case in point.
This fall, in the very earliest days of
his freshman year, Brickel decided he
wanted to take an active role in the
theatre. He marched into Gordon’s office
and volunteered. Before he knew it,
Brickel had become the stage manager of
The Merchant of Venice.

Says Brickel: ‘‘The smallness is
definitely a plus. At a big university I
would never have been able to be a stage

manager as a freshman, especially since
I’m not taking any drama courses. The
community has a much greater chance to
participate here than at most other
places.”’

And participate, the community cer-
tainly does. The casts of University
Theatre productions routinely feature
members of the faculty and administra-
tion, law students, actors and actresses
from the community, and students from
neighboring women’s colleges, as well as
undergraduates from every department in
the University. This year, for instance,
Joseph Martinez of the drama depart-
ment, and Pamela Simpson, professor of
art and associate dean of the College,
played leading roles in The Merchant of
Venice and Lysistrata, respectively.

Students are grateful for such wide
participation from the community. ‘‘At
times, of course, it’s disappointing to lose
a role to a professor or an actor from the
community,’’ says drama major David
Marsh, ’86. ‘‘But for the most part,
we’re glad to have these people on the

W&L 5

 

his was indeed a curious group scat-
tered around the third-floor classroom in
duPont Hall.

Several students had paper bags on
their heads, eye-holes and ear-holes cut
out for ventilation. Another was sitting
in a plastic laundry basket covered with
a sheet and moving like an extremely slow
slug. Yet another had panty hose tied to
his or her (which was uncertain) face and
resembled a skinny pachyderm.

Just what were these crazy looking
creatures?

Clowns, of course.

Not your typical clowns in the tradi-
tion of Bozo or even Clarabell of Howdy
Doody fame. Instead, these were ‘‘per-
sonal’’ clowns—clowns that present an
individual personality with a distinct sense
of humor and appearance.

The idea behind the clowns, said
Joseph Martinez, associate professor of
drama at Washington and Lee, is to break
down the inhibitions of drama students.
When the walls of inhibitions are shat-
tered, said Martinez, the students are bet-
ter able to thrust themselves into
character.

To that end, Martinez invited two
professional comic performers to the
campus for a week last fall. Tim Carryer
and Babs Bailey, a husband-wife team
from New York formally known as ‘‘Cir-
cus Ridiculus,’’ were not exactly typical
visiting professors. They shared their
upbeat comedy—sprinkled with a little
darkness—with students in class sessions

 

W&L

Tim Carryer of Circus Ridiculus is surrounded during a drama class.

Clowning
Around
At The

University
Theatre

 

and presented three performances of their
show entitled ‘‘Here Come the Clowns’’
in the University Theatre.

The workshops conducted by Carryer
and Bailey for the 22 acting and directing
students became exercises in self-
expression. The students were instructed
to create their own personal clown, Mar-
tinez said, without using traditional clown
make-up.

Martinez explained that the students
were to drawn upon “‘their personal sense
of humor and even their understanding
of pathos and pain’’ to create the
characters. Then Carryer and Bailey
taught the student-clowns to project that
character on stage.

The result was an astounding bit of
controlled chaos. With Carryer in the
middle beating a tiny drum and Bailey
patrolling the perimeter to keep everyone
in touch, the students danced, whirled,
twisted, and slid their way through exer-
cises meant to convey energy and
emotion.

These techniques used by Carryer and
Bailey are emblematic of the ‘‘New
Vaudeville,’’ a return to traditional
methods of actings and clowning that
have found new life in young, innovative
performers across the United States.

With a week’s worth of experience,
the Washington and Lee clowns took to
the street during the annual Lexington
Christmas parade. They cavorted with the
crowd, danced for the children, and
generally had a good time clowning
around. Their inhibitions were elsewhere.

 

 

Peter A. Quinn, ’78, as Rev. Jonathan Witherspoon; Lexington’s Charles L. Harer as Benjamin
Franklin; and Charles Smith, ’79, as Pennsylvania delegate James Wilson in 1776, presented in
1976.

stage with us. For one thing, before
coeducation we had to depend on ac-
tresses from the community and women’s
colleges to cast female roles. Even now,
we still rely on actresses from outside,
because there has not yet been enough
participation among our women students
to fill all the available parts.

‘‘But aside from the purely practical
standpoint, it’s a superb learning ex-
perience for us to work with these peo-
ple. There are some very talented actors
and actresses on the faculty and in the
Lexington community. By acting opposite
them, we improve. It’s almost like a
course in itself.”’

Although the University Theatre in-
vites participation from the community,
its primary responsibility is to
undergraduates. The drama faculty is
dedicated to providing students with the
chance to express themselves through the
medium of theatre—through acting, con-
structing scenery, designing lighting, and,
in some cases, directing. All drama ma-
jors are required to direct a production at
some point during their undergraduate
careers.

Students and alumni cite directing as
one of the most valuable experiences of
their college career. Says alumnus Mish:
‘Directing makes use of every single
faculty you possess. It brings out a
leadership quality in you that you didn’t
even know you had. No other department
does that in quite the same way.

‘‘At Washington and Lee we were en-
couraged to try anything we wanted to.

And if we didn’t succeed, that was all
right: just by trying, we were successful.”’
A directing requirement for
undergraduates is almost unheard-of at
most institutions. Indeed, many alumni
who continue to study theatre after
graduation report that the graduate pro-
grams in which they enroll are
remarkably similar to their undergraduate
course of study. ‘‘The Washington and
Lee program is as demanding as many

 

Meets Girl

Gerald Gray, ’63 (left), Susie Dunnell, and Andy Leonard, ’63, in 1961 performance of Boy

master of fine arts programs elsewhere,’’
Mish says.

Drama major Christopher Car-
mouche, ’86, agrees. ‘‘The individualized
attention I have gotten here and the
chance to be in so many productions
have definitely benefitted me, and | think
now I will be much better prepared to
compete in a graduate program. I could
have gone to a large theatre school and
done three shows during my entire college
career. Here, I can do three every year.
That makes a big difference.”’

ven though the University Theatre’s
primary purpose is to offer students
hands-on experience on the stage, a
natural by-product is fine dramatic enter-
tainment offered to area audiences during
the school year and, for the past several
years, during the summer as well. In
1978, drama professor Gordon and in-
terested individuals from the Lexington
community organized the Henry Street
Playhouse, a summer stock theatre com-
pany housed in the University Theatre.
Members of the cast, technical crew, and
support staff receive shares of the box
office receipts from the three shows the
Playhouse presents each summer.

More than 10 years after his gradua-
tion from W&L, Mark Daughtrey still
performs occasionally on the University
Theatre stage in Henry Street produc-
tions. ‘‘Henry Street is a real asset in the
community,’’ Daughtrey says. ‘‘One of

4

W&L 7

 

 

its greatest benefits is that it provides
summer employment to people, such as
students from W&L and the high schools,
who wouldn’t otherwise be able to find
jobs around here. It’s good entertain-
ment, and it gives people like me a
chance to stay active in the theatre.’’

The University Theatre may provide a
fine theatrical background to students.
And the Henry Street Playhouse may fur-
nish some with summer employment.
But, as with many areas of the liberal
arts, students are always questioning the
drama division’s ability to help them find
permanent employment.

‘‘At larger universities, people come
to school to be drama majors,’’ alumnus
Mish explains. ‘‘That rarely happens at
WAL. And if they do decide to major,
they seldom make a career of the
theatre.”’

There are exceptions to that rule, of
course. Mish himself went on to earn his
master’s degree in theatre. But he makes
his living in the classroom, rather than
on the stage. Following graduation,
Daughtrey entered the American
Academy of Arts in Los Angeles. ‘‘But
after I completed the program,’’ he ex-
plains, ‘‘I decided the business was just
too difficult. I got tired of going to one
audition after another.’’ So he returned
to Virginia to work in radio.

Few drama students actually pursue a
career on the stage. In the student lexicon
of the 80s, the drama major is simply not
‘‘marketable.’’ But if the program is not
preparing students for a specific career,
what is its value?

Tom Brickel answers that question
without hestitation: ‘‘You can learn the
art of appreciating theatre even if you
can’t live it for the rest of your life.
While I was stage-managing The Mer-
chant of Venice, | learned more about
Shakespeare than I had ever learned in
an English class. It’s a wonderful
experience—one you really can’t get
anywhere else.”’

Mish agrees. ‘‘We have a drama divi-
sion here at St. Anne’s for the same
reason W&L has one. It’s absolutely
essential. The theatre provides a creative
outlet. It’s a physical activity, but it also
taxes the mind. When you are involved in
the theatre you learn so much about
yourself—more so than in any other
single activity in the liberal arts ex-
perience.’’

Yet another argument for the drama
division is offered by Daughtrey: ‘‘I love
to lose myself on the stage,’’ he says
simply. ‘‘It’s fun.”’

8 W&L

 

Robert Mish, ’76, and Katie Huntley perform in the 1979 Henry Street Playhouse production of
Royall Tyler’s The Contrast.

Ae 1936 Calyx reported that thanks to
gifts from the Publications Board and the
Executive Committee, ‘‘the Troubs were
able to completely revamp the old ex-
theatre at the corner of Main and Henry
Streets into a modern and completely
satisfactory structure designed to fit the
players’ needs.’’

The theatre may have met the needs
of the players in 1935, but it hardly does
so now. The replacement of a dangerous
grid above the stage, the addition of new
seats and an inclined floor, and the con-
struction of a workshop, lobby, and con-
trol booth have been the only major
structural changes to the building in the
past 50 years. In back of the stage, the
still-visible outlines of windows are
testaments to the building’s history as a

shoe factory and nickolodeon.

The structure imposes severe restric-
tions on the actors. Stage blocking is
determined, to a large extent, by the scar-
city of space. Electrical capacity is
limited, so the light boards cannot be run
at full capacity. Falling rain on the tin
roof makes so much noise that the per-
formers’ lines are occasionally drowned
out during a thunderstorm. Bats fre-
quently swoop down from their home in
the building’s eaves to be uninvited
members of the audience. Space—for
faculty offices, for dressing rooms, for
set construction and storage—is severely
limited.

The restrictions imposed by the
building itself have, if nothing else,
brought out the creativity and
resourcefulness of students and faculty,

 

 

  
    
  

 

as they design scenery and coordinate
blocking to fit on the small stage.

Occasionally, however, students will
seek alternate locations for performances.
For several years, the theatre has rented
space in the lowest level of the Old Main
Street Mall, just across the street from
the University Theatre, and plays are ac-
tually presented in the mall’s old boiler
room—known, aptly enough, as The
Boiler Room Theatre. Some students
have allowed their imaginations to roam
even further and have produced shows
outdoors. Donald Baker, ’68, directed A
Midsummer Night’s Dream at the lime
kiln ruins just outside Lexington. The set-
ting must have worked; Baker returned to
Lexington two summers ago to begin
Lime Kiln Arts, a theatre company that
produces plays in those same ruins during
the summer. (See May 1985 Alumni
Magazine.)

But presenting theatre outdoors is far
from ideal; problems abound—from con-
structing a stage to producing adequate
sound and light to predicting the weather.
An outdoor stage poses almost as many
difficulties as does the University Theatre
itself. Coping with W&L’s existing
facilities for drama, says Gordon, ‘‘is like
working with your hands tied behind
your back.”’

That may change soon, however.
Frank Parsons, executive assistant to
President John D. Wilson, says that the
‘Board of Trustees recognizes the need
for a new theatre as the highest-priority
project we have right now.’’ The project

has passed through several stages of plan-
ning. Currently, the tentative projections
call for a structure containing a 450-seat
main auditorium suitable for dramatic
and musical productions, a smaller ex-
perimental or ‘‘black box’’ theatre,
rehearsal and dressing rooms, faculty of-
fices, classrooms, a lobby and support
facilities, and a workshop for set
construction.

The proposed location is a site adjoin-
ing the old Lexington train depot,
diagonally across U.S. 60 from the con-
struction site of the University’s new
Francis Pendleton Gaines Residence Hall
(see inside front cover). ‘‘The theatre’s
architecture will harmonize with that of
the new residence hall,’’ Parsons says,
‘‘and the planners are working to create
a concept for the development of this
whole area of the campus. The entire sec-
tion will become a major entrance to the
University, which will differ from the
classical front campus and the modern
back campus.”’

The University Theatre building (left)
began as a shoe factory and became home
to the Troubadours 50 years ago. The
theatre building and the stage area (below)
are shown before the additions of a
workshop to the side, auditorium seats,
and a lobby.

A committee has been formed to plan
and coordinate fund-raising efforts for
the construction project. Stephen Sloan,
°54, of New York City will chair that
committee.

So, as the 50-year birthday celebration
for the University Theatre comes to a
close, a new chapter in its life seems
about to begin. Students and alumni alike
look forward to the event with eager an-
ticipation. ‘‘The department here at
Washington and Lee is really under-
rated,’’ says Carmouche. ‘‘I believe that
with the addition of a new facility, in 10
or 15 years we could be known as one of
the top theatre schools in the state,
maybe even the region.’’

Daughtrey shares Carmouche’s en-
thusiasm: ‘‘If they have been able to do
such good productions in that old
building, with all its limitations, just
think what they could do with a new
facility.’’

Perhaps the theatre’s best reviews are
yet to come.

W&L 9

 

I believe that the state of the University is sound.
ITEM: In a period of declining numbers of high school

graduates, we received over a thousand more applications for
our Class of ’89 than for any class in our history. Similarly,
law school applications went decisively up this year from the

year before, even though law applications across the nation
declined sharply. We can be pleased, but not complacent,

about our claims upon talented students.

QO { e ITEM: On 31 December the University’s Annual Fund
counted 3,621 donors who had committed $961,641. This
represents 616 donors and $156,000 more than last year on the

B @ same date—increases of approximately 20 percent.
' | ITEM: Aided by generous bequests and a favorable
hiv e rsit market, the University’s general endowment reached a market
value of $55 million on 31 December. When the Pratt Fund is

added, plus trusts solely dedicated to Washington and Lee,
our gross ‘‘endowment-like funds’’ now total over $95 million.

 

President Wilson’s Report ITEM: Our plant funds have been sufficiently augmented
; to permit restoration of one of the historic Front Campus
at Founders Day residences, 6 University Place (the Morris House); and to

make us confident that another of those residences, 32 Univer-
sity Place, will be under contract by summer and will become
the new home for the Admissions Office. This latter develop-
ment is dependent, in significant part, upon corporate grants,
and upon special reunion gifts to be received this May.

ITEM: The introduction of undergraduate women at
Washington and Lee has been graciously accommodated by
students and faculty and, once the decision was made,
welcomed by virtually all members of the Alumni Association.
It is true that we have become a little self-conscious lately and
have bumped into each other in small, inadvertent ways. But
thanks to good sportsmanship and our unwillingness to take
ourselves too seriously, I think we can say that we are off to a
good start.

This is a selective list. It leaves out some disappointments,
some losses, some causes for sadness. But I do not think my
selective vision of the past 12 months is seriously distorted.
Thanks to a great many people, including my gifted
predecessor, Robert E. R. Huntley, we are in sound condition;
and we hold great promise in our collective hands.

I was made to think of this vividly the other morning
when, just at dawn, I happened to be on the far side of the
Woods Creek ravine when I looked up and was stunned by
the beauty, the lovely aptness of our University. Mind you, I
was looking at the backside of the Colonnade, and there it
stood, a many-columned wonder bathed in the faintly orange
light of the early morning sun. I had had no idea just how
complementary to its great front, the ‘‘back’’ of the Colon-
nade could be—and how ideally it expresses, back and front,
what we stand for here and try so hard to achieve. It made
me realize that if you were to have the privilege of inventing a
seat of learning (the physical side of which should reflect the
values and character of the people and purposes housed
within), then you could do no better than to shape your place
as this one has been shaped over the centuries.

 

 

be Yes, there is great promise here—great promise for the
vi) y} years just ahead and for years well beyond that. I have con-
fidence about it because I have come, in my privileged three
President John D. Wilson addressed the annual Founders’ Day Con- years amongst you, to understand one important aspect of the
vocation in Lee Chapel on January 20, 1986. The following is an genius of Washington and Lee. It is a place, for all its

edited version of his remarks. reverence for the past, that combines a fidelity to continuing

form and lasting purposes with a high tolerance for change—
especially when change is seen as faithful to and supportive of

10 W&L

 

 

 

inherited values, and not change for the sake of innovation or
a spurious currency.

Of course all universities, to be worthy of their high call-
ing, must come to terms with both stability and with change;
must somehow reconcile the fiercest intellectual ferment, the
periodic clash of new and old ideas, with a preserving obliga-
tion to that which has lasting value. Permanence and change,
stability, tradition, faithfulness to old ideas, and an openness
to the new, the untried: these are the marks of a confident,
historic university, certain of its character and its purpose.

And I find true signs of this openness everywhere I look at
Washington and Lee.

Consider the last three years—a new president, a new law
school dean, a new dean of the College, a new director of the
library, a new head of the mathematics department, a new
head and a new department of computer science, a new
registrar, a new executive secretary of the Alumni Association,
two new deans of students, a new assistant athletic director,
some 14 new faculty members, and shortly, a new dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics and a new
University treasurer. This is a dizzying litany.

But we can go on: a new core curriculum; a new Universi-
ty Scholars program; coeducation and its attendant changes;
the beginnings of a new curriculum in applied physics and
engineering; a new development plan for academic computing;
new intercollegiate athletic teams; new courses in Jewish
studies; a new University Chorus.

I am frankly amazed at the resilience of the faculty and
students who brought all these changes off so well. But in
part it is because of the inherent connection this community
has sensed between the new and the old—an unarticulated .,
belief that preserving what matters most about the old is
dependent upon introducing the complementary, strengthening
**new

Take coeducation. There are many good reasons why
Washington and Lee opened its doors this past September to
young women as well as young men. But one of the important
reasons was the sense that it was vital to the preservation of
our historic commitment to quality and to the annual
matriculation of talented, creative students with genuine
leadership capabilities. We did not embrace coeducation for
imitative reasons, but, rather, for the sake of continuing to at-
tract a national pool of aspiring young people of the first
rank.

Take the new core curriculum. The faculty did not imple-
ment a new pattern of undergraduate study to make our
catalogue more fashionable, but because it promised to re-
invigorate our commitment to the liberal arts and the ideal of
the broadly educated citizen.

Take the University Scholars’ Program. This program was
approved by the faculty because it provides new institutional
forms to give expression to old commitments to excellence and
to the Jeffersonian ideal of an aristocracy of talent.

So it goes throughout our catalogue of changes. And so it
Ought to go in the next several years. We have a solemn
obligation to do everything in our power to make this institu-
tion a little stronger than it was when we came here. This
argues for further change, I suppose, but change of the evolu-
tionary sort. We do not, in anyone’s judgment, require
dramatic alterations. Rather we should devote ourselves to
reaffirming our central purposes, strengthening our institu-
tional character, and burnishing our ideals.

What does this entail?

In the first instance, it requires us to keep vividly in mind

99
e

what we are about and what truly makes us a distinctive com-
munity. We share with other institutions a number of
characteristics:

eOur size (a few over 1,700) we share with many institu-
tions, the good, bad and indifferent;

eWe share with some our complementary commitment to
the discovery and refinement of knowledge and its transmis-
sion to the next generation;

eAnd with a few institutions we share our national reputa-
tion for academic seriousness and high expectations.

But we have more defining characteristics that we should
be at pains to protect and enhance:

1. We are relatively small, but remarkably comprehensive
for our size. Few institutions of our size offer Japanese and
Chinese and Italian and Russian, in addition to the traditional
European languages, ancient and modern. Few have discrete
schools of law and commerce or broadly based programs in
journalism. Still fewer offer significant work in engineering
sciences, archaeology, African history, experimental
psychology, Latin American history and literature, astronomy,
and applied ethics. This may not make us unique, but patently
it makes us most unusual.

2. Our humanities programs are exceptionally strong.
Humanities programs in this country have been markedly
weakened in the past several years: enrollments have fallen
and faculty morale has been damaged. But that is not true
here. Indeed, our enrollments in English, history, philosophy,
religion and the modern languages have actually grown during
the past several years, quite counter to the national trend.

3. Our sense of colleagueship is exceptionally strong. It is
fostered by an intimate teaching environment which produces
good student-faculty relationships and a caring community. It
is enlivened by our Honor System, which we keep pulling up
by the roots to examine but which I believe is strong and
which, because of its strength, fosters trust, honesty, and
mutual respect.

4. We have an unusual record of alumni success which has
produced a solid sense of loyalty and generosity. We have suc-
cessful graduates who do well in the learned professions and
in business and government. In addition they care about us
and help us, from assisting in admissions and placement to
contributing substantial sums. Other institutions can make
similar claims, but I will not trade our Alumni Association for
any other one known to me.

These are some of the special characteristics which we must
protect and develop in the years ahead.

What else must we do? Where should we concentrate our
new marginal energies and resources in order to have on our
250th birthday (in 1999) a stronger, more vibrant Washington
and Lee for the next century?

There is no single answer. We have many options and, in
the usual way of the University, these options are being
studied, or will be studied, by various committees. And what
we finally choose to focus upon will ultimately be determined
by the Board of Trustees.

But let me sketch out a few general areas where it seems
likely we will concentrate our planning energies.

eRenewing our primary resource: the faculty of the
University

Currently, we have a good balance across fields and a fair
mixture of youth and maturity. We face, however, a serious
problem of faculty-wide renewal over the next decade as up-
ward of 40 colleagues reach retirement age. We must be ex-
tremely careful as we seek to attract and retain a large number

W&L 11

 

of junior faculty members, each of whom will have to be
socialized to the University’s values and our style of doing

things.

12

So, too, must we have careful consideration of our salary
and fringe benefit programs, looking at ourselves in com-
parison with the finest peer institutions in the country. And
we will wish to continue to enhance a full range of faculty-
development programs. These are a few facets of a com-
prehensive program to renew and strengthen our single most
important resource—the faculty of the University.

Three Washington and Lee alumni
and a friend of the University were made
honorary initiates into Omicron Delta
Kappa, the national honorary fraternity
recognizing leadership, during the annual
Founders’ Day Convocation in January.

Honorary initiates were Mabel S. Bar-
ritt, a church and community volunteer
from Lexington; Richard A. Denny, ’52,
an Atlanta attorney; James Louis Howe
Jr., °18, of Harrisonburg, Va., a retired
chemist and former missionary to China;
and Richard W. Smith, ’41, a retired at-
torney from Staunton, Va.

In addition, the ODK Alpha Circle
made David W. Sprunt, professor of
religion and University chaplain, the first
recipient of a new award honoring facul-
ty and administration for ‘‘significant
contributions to the University and par-
ticipation in ODK.”’

During the ceremonies in which 26
W&L students were ‘‘tapped’’ into ODK
membership, Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson paid special recogni-
tion to Emily Pearse, who is retiring from
active service as the principal docent of
Lee Chapel, and to Rupert N. Latture,
professor of politics emeritus and the sole
surviving founder of ODK. Unfortunate-
ly, illness kept both Mrs. Pearse and Lat-
ture from attending the ceremonies.

Long active in church and communi-
ty affairs in Lexington, Mrs. Barritt was
co-founder of the Rockbridge Area
Presbyterian Home and serves as that
facility’s residential coordinator. She was
a charter member of the board that
established the Rockbridge Area Housing
Corporation and was also a charter
member of the Rockbridge Area League
of Women Voters. She has been active in
the United Way of Lexington-Rockbridge
County, the Children’s Clinic, and the
Cystic Fibrosis Research Foundation. Her
husband, C. Westbrook Barritt, is pro-
fessor of romance languages at W&L.

W&L

eSecuring the success of coeducation

If the experience of others is any measure, we will be
several years in making the large and small adjustments that
will ensure that Washington and Lee is successful in meeting
the educational needs of women as fully as it meets the needs
of men. I am pleased with our progress thus far. So far as |
can see, we are far ahead of other institutions that followed
this path in earlier years.

But I am under no illusion that the transition is completed.
We have a delicate task of modulating our enrollment patterns

 

President Wilson (left) with Omicron Delta Kappa honorees (from left) Richard W. Smith,
41; Richard A. Denny, ’52; Mabel S. Barritt; James Louis Howe Jr., ’18; and David W.
Sprunt, professor of religion and first winner of an ODK award to members of the faculty

and administration.

Denny received his bachelor’s degree
from W&L and his law degree from
Emory University. He was named a part-
ner in the Atlanta law firm of King and
Spalding in 1960. He has been a trustee
of Lovett School since 1969 and a
member of the Rotary Education Foun-
dation of Atlanta since 1977. He is a past
president of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association and has also served
as president of the Atlanta chapter of the
W&L Alumni Association.

Howe joins his father, James L. Howe
Sr., former head of the chemistry depart-
ment at W&L, and his son, James Howe
III, as members of ODK. After earning
bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
chemistry, Howe accepted a professorship
at Hangchow Christian College in
Hangchow, China, under the Southern
Presbyterian Board in 1921. He later
transferred to Great China University in
Shanghai and taught there for two years

until he returned to Hangchow and taught
until the Japanese invaded China in 1937.
Upon returning to the United States,
Howe became a chemist with the Arthur
Thomas Company in Philadelphia, where
he remained until his retirement in 1965.

Following his graduation from W&L,
Smith served with the first Marine divi-
sion in the South Pacific during World
War II. He earned his law degree at the
University of Michigan in 1947 and open-
ed the firm of Timberlake, Smith,
Thomas & Moses in Staunton. He retired
in 1982 to become counsel to the firm.
Long active in civic and community ser-
vice, he is a former mayor of Staunton
and is currently president of King’s
Daughters’ Hospital and Shenandoah
Shared Hospital Services, Inc. He has
served on the executive committees of the
Virginia State Bar and the Virginia Bar
Association.

 

 

so that the academic quality and range
of interests represented by our enter-
ing classes are annually enhanced, as
we gradually build up the enrollment
of women over the next eight to 10
years.

We will continue to look for op-
portunities to add women and minori-
ty representatives to our faculty and
staff. We have made some progress on
this front in the past year or so, but much remains to be
done.

I must add, in this context, a reaffirmation of General
Lee’s intention to see that the Washington College of his day
would become an educational institution to serve the needs of
students from all sections of the nation, a place where we
could learn from each other about each other’s region and
culture, even as we pursue serious, formal study. This goal
has been admirably fulfilled over the years. I fondly hope that
the coeducation decision will enable us to enlarge upon that
success.

eStrengthening our evolving curriculum

This is the most difficult area to make predictions about.
It is hard to foresee what new discoveries or new inter-
disciplinary unions will emerge or how new faculty members
will influence our curricular deliberations. But the following
observations may not be entirely misplaced.

In the past two years we have had several studies of
various aspects of the curriculum. Faculty ad hoc committees
have studied, or are now studying, our current and prospective
strengths in a wide range of areas.

Yet another study, currently underway in the sciences, is
uncovering some aspects which are cause for concern. For in-
stance, an Oberlin College group of 48 leading liberal arts col-
leges recently developed a case for National Science Founda-
tion support for superior undergraduate programs in the basic
sciences. When Washington and Lee was not among the 48,
we, naturally, made inquiry. While nothing definitive emerged,
we learned the following:

eIn the five years between 1975 and 1979, Washington and
Lee averaged 28 seniors per year applying to health-related
professional schools (almost all in M.D. programs). In the
most recent five years, the average had dropped to 18.

eIn a 1984 assessment: of freshman curricular interests, 28
percent of the Oberlin-group freshmen indicated interest in the
basic sciences compared with some 21 percent of the
Washington and Lee freshmen. Moreover, in the most recent
10-year period, 24 percent of the Oberlin-group seniors
graduated in one of the science fields where fewer than 16
percent of our seniors so majored.

Frankly these comparisons do not deeply disturb me. Each
institution has its strengths, character, and reputation—and
ours have been much influenced by our solid work in the
humanities. But I am concerned to note that the biology
department in the 1970s almost invariably counted its majors
in the high 40s and now averages in the 20s. Geology, too,
has lost majors. Chemistry and physics have been steady over
the decade, but the interdepartmental majors have fallen from
the high 20s to single digits in the past two years.

Some self-correction may be at work in the increasing
diversity and range of interests we are beginning to see and
hope to see in future entering classes. An increasing emphasis
upon undergraduate research opportunities in the sciences

 

should help, as should any success we
can achieve in providing special funds
for scientific equipment replacement.

I do not consider these data alarm-
ing at this point, but they certainly
argue for careful scrutiny and respon-
sible corrective action if, in fact, in a
universe of free curricular choice, we
can do things to help restore ap-
propriate balance in our curriculum.

eThe character of residential life

This does not translate simply into the provision of a new
residence hall, though this could be important to it. Rather it
has to do with what I believe is a vital part of University
life—the artistic, cultural, intellectual, and athletic life of the
University outside the classroom. Here we truly stand on the
edge of great possibility.

_ Our theatre program is vital and growing in strength and
versatility; our debaters now travel to Great Britain and defeat
their English counterparts on the question of whether
American English is preferable to the native tongue; our
musical organizations and talents seem to enlarge every year
and give us constant delight; so, too, our student painters and
sculptors impress visitors even as they impress those of us
here. We have a good intramural athletic program; and much
zany, improvised athletic activity goes on all the time. Our
collection of paintings is unusual and our porcelain collection
attracts national attention. So, too, our film society brings us
stimulation as do our visiting lecturers and poets and artists.

We have a very strong foundation to build upon, and
build upon it I very much hope we can. We desperately need
our planned new theatre/auditorium, for it will make possible
our reaching a higher plateau. I see, in my mind’s eye, our
first student string quartet swelling over the years to a
chamber orchestra and then, with Rockbridge County help
perhaps, enlarging still further to a symphony orchestra. I see,
too, our first opera being performed by the joint work of the
theatre and music faculties and all kinds of improvised student
acting. I see more student creative writing, more involvement
in debate, increased attendance at our intercollegiate sports
events. And, when I am really feeling good, I see a revitalized
Greek system, one marked by restored houses with touches of
elegance and with a social program that finds boring the
earlier preoccupation with five-keg parties of the predictable
sort week after week. I even envisage an Interfraternity Coun-
cil or even a Pan-Hellenic that finds ways to contribute to
Lexington and to produce constructive programs on campus
that will distinguish our Greek system from all the others
around the country. It may even be possible to come up with
novel ways to have fun.

We have much to do and it need not be all of the boringly
earnest kind. This is a rare place of light and shadow and
sound and good people, too. I don’t know why we can’t stake
out a place in the top 12 [national liberal arts colleges] and get
there in a dozen years. We are close enough now. In tradition,
architecture, and institutional character, we are already there.
In alumni support we are extremely close. In the strength of
our endowment, in student quality, in faculty development, in

library resources we are within striking distance. It should be

an exciting period, and I feel deeply privileged to be part of
it. I hope, together, it will prove to be a richly rewarding one
for all of us and, most especially, that it will secure the
primacy of the University for the next generation.

W&L 13

Bear Rasslin’

Todd Lowry’s Approach to Economics Is Hardly Conventional

by Jeffery G. Hanna

he story goes like this:

A great big hulk of a man was leaning up against
the wall outside a country store one day when a
scrawny little fellow approached, gazed up at the
enormous man with wonder, and said: ‘‘My, I wish I
were as big and as strong as you are. Why, I sure do
wish I were a big, husky fellow like you. If I were as
big and as strong as you are, I’d go right out into
those woods and find the biggest bear I could find
and I’d rassle him, that’s what I’d do.”’

The big hulking fellow peered down at the
scrawny little fellow. ‘You know what?”’ he replied.
‘*There’s a whole lot of little bears out there in the
woods.”’

Todd Lowry was about eight years old when he
heard his preacher in Laredo, Texas, tell that story.
He remembers what a strong impression the story
made on him at the time.

When he was nine, Lowry was accidently sprayed
in the face with a shotgun blast. He lost his left eye
and much of the vision in his right eye. But that
never stopped him from looking for bears to rassle.

‘“You can always find a reason for not doing
something if you look for one,’’ says Lowry, putting
bear-rasslin’ in perspective. ‘‘But if you really want
to do something, you can always pick something
that’s your size.’’

Yet, some of his friends and colleagues and
former students might argue that Todd Lowry usually
picks the biggest bears in the woods.

he subject at the moment is modern business
management techniques. Stanley Todd Lowry, pro-
fessor of economics and administration at
Washington and Lee, shifts slightly in his chair, ad-
justs the lamp on his desk, and presents his case.

‘“‘It is people that count,’’ Lowry is saying in the
soft, measured voice that hints still of its west Texas
roots. As he proceeds, that voice rises ever so slight-
ly. He cocks his head at an angle. He wants to make
certain his listener recognizes that here, after all, is
the heart of the matter: the bottom line, he argues, is
dealing effectively with the human variable.

On the surface, Lowry’s philosophy might seem
to be straight out of the latest volumes on manage-
ment techniques—volumes such as Thomas J. Peters’
In Search of Excellence and Passion for Excellence.

Actually, Lowry’s primary source goes back far-
ther than that. A lot farther. To support his
arguments, Lowry cites the management philosophy

 

14 W&L

 

of Xenophon, a Greek philosopher whose theories were for-
mulated in the fourth century B.C., a few hundred years
before the dawning of one-minute managers.

‘‘People have argued that Xenophon was not much of a
philosopher,’’ says Lowry. ‘‘But he had a good grasp of prac-
tical efficiency.

‘‘In one of his works, Oeconomicus, Xenophon makes the
point that nature ‘does not dissemble.’ That, at least, was the
translation that I originally used, and I think it makes the
point quite well.’’

The point being, Lowry explains, that nature is an open
book. Knowing what is naturally efficient is easy. The hard
part is controlling the human variable. Nature will take care
of itself.

Not long ago Lowry happened to be listening to an inter-
view with Peters, whose ‘‘excellence’’ books are big sellers in
business schools. Peters’ formula for successful businesses,
particularly his emphasis on leadership and innovation and
getting to know your employees, had a familiar ring.

‘*Peters has gone back to what I call ‘administrative
economics,’ right back to Xenophon. Rather than emphasizing
natural market competition as a source of efficiency, the key
to a successful enterprise is leadership and efficiency in
managing people.’’

Xenophon’s Oeconomicus is a small treatise of no more
than 60 pages on how to manage a farmstead with the greatest
efficiency. ‘‘His principles involved such things as keeping
things in order, having a place for everything so that it was
out of the way when you didn’t need it and easy to find when
you wanted it,’’ Lowry says.

‘*Xenophon wrote about how you should punish people
who do poorly and reward people who do well. There is even
a little comment that by giving prizes for superior agricultural
practice you could buy a tremendous increase in production at
a very small price.’’ (For comparison’s sake, consider this line
from Thomas J. Peter’s Passion for Excellence: ‘‘We are all
suckers for brass bands and pats on the back.’’)

A typical Lowry conversation is like being guided through
a maze. He leads you precisely where he wants you to go, but
never without taking any number of unexpected twists and
turns in the path. Along the way, he punctuates the journey
with rhetorical questions—right? isn’t it? you see?—Jjust to
make certain you are still on the same path.

Ask Lowry about business law, one of his many
specialties, and you wind up getting Aristotle’s perspective on
Hamer v. Sidway, a textbook classic. Begin a discussion on
the merits of heating with wood, and you find yourself learn-
ing how primitives threw spears. His interests are diverse, to
say the very least; his explanation for the diversity is simple.

‘‘A liberal education,’’ he says, ‘‘means that you have
several interests, right? And that’s what we’re about here,
isn’t it? A liberal education?’’

Lowry was steeped in that liberal arts tradition as an
undergraduate at the University of Texas. It was the early
1940s, and Lowry was enrolled in what was called the Plan 2
program. ‘‘It was modeled after the Great Books program
that Robert Hutchins was putting forward in the 1930s at the
University of Chicago,’’ Lowry explains. ‘‘Back then, it was
considered very innovative.”’

One course that had a particularly profound impact on
Lowry was in classical civilization where he first became aware
of a book entitled Modern Problems in the Ancient World.

‘‘It was two little sets of essays, and it drew parallels be-

Yassine Essid was conducting research on his doctorat
d’etat degree at the University of Paris several years ago when
he happened upon a pertinent article that was written by one
S. Todd Lowry, a professor at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in the United States.

The article, appearing in the Journal of Economic
Literature, was a discussion of recent literature on ancient
Greek economic thought.

Essid, a Tunisian who had
already earned a doctorat de
3eme cycle, was tracing the
development of Muslim
economic thought with par-
ticular attention on the ancient
Greek influences of medieval
Arab-Muslim thinkers.

‘*The article was the first
that I had heard about Todd
Lowry and about his work in
this specialized field of the
history of economic thought,”’
Essid says.

Before long Essid and Lowry were corresponding on the
subject. Essid paid Lowry visits in Lexington on three
separate occasions to discuss the subject and to conduct
research in W&L’s University Library.

Then, this January, Essid was awarded a Fulbright
scholarship to spend six months on the Washington and Lee
campus, where he is enrolled as a special student and is
developing his doctoral thesis through independent research
and individual tutorials with Lowry, who is on sabbatical
leave during the Winter Term.

While working on his project, Essid has also developed
an article that will be included in a book Lowry is editing
on ‘‘preclassical’’ political economy.

 

tween the economic policies in ancient Athens and ancient
Rome with modern economic policy. Today I would probably
disagree with most of what it said. But it did stir my interest
in the history of economic thought. That only goes to show
that ideas need not be right or wrong to be worthwhile, so
long as they’re stimulating.”’

After earning his bachelor’s degree at Texas in 1945,
Lowry went on to law school there. Halfway through, he
decided he wasn’t very much interested in practicing law. ‘‘It
was more nuts and bolts than I wanted, and the whole idea of
setting up a law practice wasn’t particularly intriguing. But I
was so close that I went on and finished.’’

The law degree in hand, Lowry went to New Orleans
where he ‘‘did a few odds and ends’’ before entering the
graduate program at Louisiana State University. By then he
had settled on his life’s ambition: ‘‘I was born to be an
academic bum.”’’

At LSU he kept one foot in the economics department and
another in the geography department. And all the while he
kept a big toe in the forestry school, carrying on an informal
reading program with a silviculturist. ‘‘I would call on this old
professor in the forestry school every week or two. He’d give

W&L 15

 

 

me an article or a pamphlet to browse. Then I’d come back
and talk to him about it. It was kind of a running three-year
extracurricular reading course, and I wound up carrying a
field in my Ph.D. in forest economics.”’

So over the past quarter century when he hasn’t been
reading and writing about ancient Greek economic theories,
Lowry has been reading and writing about forest planning. An
odd combination, you say? As usual, Lowry works his way
deftly through the apparent maze.

‘“‘In graduate school at LSU I had focused on the history
of ideas and specifically the different attitudes and perceptions
that people have of their environments,’’ he explains. ‘‘That is
partly a matter of cultural history and partly a matter of dif-
ferent societies.

‘Any different culture has its own perception of its
physical environment and what is culturally appropriate to do.
There is a lot of comparative study of the way different peo-
ple adapt to their surroundings. You can compare things over
time as well as from place to place. That’s basically how I tie
together natural resources, forestry, the history of thought,
and my general interest in economics. It is all tied to how
perceptions vary and how idea patterns vary, how and why
people come to think the way they do.’’

L, 1959 Todd Lowry arrived at Washington and Lee to take
over the economic and commercial geography courses that had
been taught by M.O. Phillips. The next year he began
teaching business law after B.B. Holder retired. ‘‘My law
degree paid off,’’ he says.

In the mid-1960s Lowry began to focus on his primary
research interest. He published an article on ancient Greek
ideas on natural resource economics in 1965. Four years later
he published an article on Aristotle’s exchange theory.

The way in which Lowry blends disciplines, his combina-
tion of cultural history and economics, was not-all that
unusual some years back. But the increasing specialization in
economics as it has moved toward a statistically oriented em-
pirical analysis has left him as one of only a handful of
scholars dealing with the specialty.

That became particularly evident earlier this year when
Yassine Essid, a Tunisian doctoral student at the University of
Paris, arrived in Lexington on a Fulbright scholarship to study
under Lowry. Essid’s special interest is Greek philosophers
and the genesis of economic thought. Lowry is one of the very
few people in the world working on the same subjects.

‘‘A few years ago there were about six or seven of us do-
ing this kind of work. Now there are maybe two or three
more,’’ says Lowry, adding drolly: ‘‘The field is getting
crowded.’’

Although he is not necessarily complaining about the lack
of interest in the specialty, Lowry does believe quite strongly
that the growing tendency to ‘‘mathematize’’ economic
thought is regrettable.

‘‘The trend over the last 30 years has been to use a scien-
tific research format in trying to make economics into an ex-
act science instead of an area of social policy and estimation
and guesswork,’’ says Lowry. ‘‘Before that, economics was
concerned with philosophy and value perception and institu-
tional character in different economies and economic prob-
lems. In the change, we’ve lost a great deal.’’

What, exactly, has been lost? ‘‘Breadth of perception.
Understanding how tenuous most of the truths we take for
granted are. Understanding that most of our statistics, say

16 W&L

price data for instance, are built on how people value things.
And once you realize that people’s values can shift dramatical-
ly as their attitudes change, then you can’t treat valuing
phenomena as anything but sort of transient data. You can’t
treat prices as stable constants. You can try to reduce ex-
change values to costs and value of labor and materials, and
you can assume that people are always rational and will make
certain adjustments. But as soon as people change their notion
of what is socially important to them, a whole bunch of pre-
existing things that used to be valuable cease to be valuable.’’

A case in point and one of Lowry’s favorites: the Dutch
tulip fad of the middle 1600s when there was great enthusiasm
among wealthy merchants to collect tulips. It got to the point
where a single prized tulip bulb sold for 50,000 pounds.

‘‘That,’’ says Lowry, ‘‘is socially determined value. You
can’t make that into a science. So you need to understand
society and history, don’t you, to understand economics.”’

A problem Lowry sees today is that economics courses
begin by teaching the precision of the discipline, while dealing
with the variables is more often part of a graduate curriculum.

‘This tends to produce a sub-strata of misled people who
just study economics as part of some other curriculum at the
undergraduate level,’’ Lowry argues. ‘‘People used to start it
the other way around by not trying to provide the rigorous
pseudoscientific foundation as the first step in economics
training.’’

Lowry readily admits his approach to economics is a bit
unorthodox. ‘‘I never thought inflation was a cardinal sin in
the economy, for instance, and that has made some folks a bit
uneasy,’’ he says. But he doesn’t back away from his ideas;
he doesn’t give an inch when it comes to his theory about
when economics really began.

‘“The approach to the history of economics has been to set
a history of the market process, which has forced some to
claim that economics doesn’t really start until shortly before
Adam Smith who first argued that the market process was a
natural phenomenon,’’ says Lowry.

‘But people trading and people producing and people
studying about how to do these things better didn’t start
with Adam Smith.’’

Before Adam Smith and market economics came the
Greeks and administrative economics. Moreover, Lowry con-
tends that most of the issues in today’s corporate economic
decision-making are more closely related to the ancient ad-
ministrative economics of, say, Xenophon than they are to
Adam Smith and the market system.

**Rather than treating the Greek system as nascent market
economics, I have come to treat the Greeks as the beginning
of a line of administrative efficiency, which is equally perti-
nent to business and government, and I have stopped trying to
find the early beginnings of the natural market theory,”’’
Lowry says. ‘‘I would even be prepared to argue that 200
years from now the assumption that the public interest will be
protected by the natural market in terms of guaranteeing effi-
ciency and individual ethical responsibility will be considered a
two-century aberration in the development of economic
thought.’’

With a soft chuckle, Lowry confesses that he often sneaks
the Greeks into his business administration classes. And he ad-
mits, with great good humor, that the students always
complain.

Well, maybe not always. Several years ago one of Lowry’s
students read the Oeconomicus as an independent reading pro-

 

 

—_—————

ject. Lowry remembers how
that student, a business ad-
ministration major, ap-
peared in his office, book in
hand, and proclaimed: ‘‘It’s
all here. This is all you need
for business administra-
tion.’’ Lowry wasn’t at all
surprised; he’d thought that
all along.

Ai his major em-
phasis continues to be the
study of economic history,
Lowry has not forsaken his
many other interests.
Forestry continues to in-
trigue him—and no longer in
abstract ways.

A year after he came to
Lexington, Lowry found a
|26-acre tract of land near
Rockbridge Baths. He’d
been looking for some land
on which to make first-hand

observations of what he Todd Lowen shares much of the credit for his work with Faye.

knew about trees and timber.

He wanted to plant some

trees and watch them grow. The land he found included a
two-story brick farmhouse in a state of considerable disrepair.
In 1962, Lowry and his family moved into that house. And he
planted his trees.

Today he estimates his crop of trees comprises 60 acres of
white pine, 30 acres of hardwoods, and five acres of yellow
pine. The trees are 24 years old now. Some run 75 feet tall
and are 13 inches in diameter.

‘It needs a heavy thinning now, but you’ve got to wait for
an expansion in home construction until that is efficient,’’
Lowry says. ‘‘That’s the virtue of timber. You don’t have to
feed it, and it’ll slow down its growth rate until you get ready
to cut it. It has a certain amount of flexibility.’’

Although the farm land was originally a place for Lowry
to grow his trees, he is a self-proclaimed ‘‘subsistence farmer’’
with a huge garden, several head of cattle, and an occasional
pig or two.

For the past seven or eight years, the Lowrys have heated
exclusively with wood. Every summer Lowry cuts six or seven
cords of wood for the upcoming heating season. ‘‘There’s
wood that has to be cut,’’ he says. ‘‘I spend an hour or so
every evening cutting and splitting.’’

It is somehow fitting that he eschews the mechanical ver-
sions of wood-splitters for an old-fashioned wood maul.
Morever, he contends his is the better way.

‘“‘I’d like to take on one of those wood-splitters in a John
Henry contest,’’ says Lowry. ‘‘I bet I can bust up a block of
wood into any number and size of pieces faster by hand.’’

That is probably not a good bet to take. Lowry’s con-
fidence in this matter is owing, in large part, to something he
Studied years ago: the circulation concept. He explains: ‘‘The
early primitives did not have a concept of a full circle. It was
a hard idea to get because it’s the concept of continuity,
right? They developed all kinds of things that used arcuate
motion.”’

 

From here, Lowry goes
on to explain the way in
which the © primitives
developed their slings and
attle-attles (spear launchers)
to get maximum velocity
with minimum effort. The
point is that it’s all in the
wrists—a technique shared,
whether they recognized it or
not, by Henry Aaron with
his Louisville Slugger and
John Henry with his
sledgehammer.

“If you’re just aware
that you’re trying to whip
the head of the maul down
in a rolling motion with your
wrist, you can impart
tremendous velocity. Once
you have a sense of what
you’re trying to do, it comes
to you,’’ Lowry explains.

be range and variety of
Todd Lowry’s interests and
expertise are remarkable.
More remarkable still is what
he has accomplished despite his sight disability. He reads and
writes. He farms and splits wood. He jogs several miles a
week. He does more than many people with 20/20 vision
would ever think of doing.

Lowry is far less comfortable talking about his eyesight
than he is living with it. It is, he will admit, a problem. ‘‘But
once you adjust to the fact that it’s your own personal en-
vironment, you deal with your environment like other people
deal with theirs.’”’

Over the past 50 years, Lowry has continued to lose vision
in his right eye. He has talked with specialists about the
possibility of surgery but has taken the advice of those who
tell him that surgery represents a double-or-nothing gamble.
‘*As long as you can make good living adjustments with
things the way they are, the better part of valor is to leave it
alone.’”’

Too, Lowry is not alone. His wife, Faye, has been a part-
ner in’ his research and writing. ‘‘She is a meticulous
bibliographer and a relentless critic of text,’’ Lowry says with
obvious admiration. ‘‘Let’s face it: she is constantly up to her
elbows in editing and has done a tremendous amount of the
work for me.”’

Up until a few years ago Lowry could check his class rolls
without using the small ‘‘thread counter,’’ a hand-held magni-
fying glass that has been his constant companion for the last
40 years. Lately his cornea has gotten cloudy, making his
limited vision even blurrier.

Still, he doesn’t miss a beat. He is waiting word on the
publication of a new book on his theories of economic
history. He is editing a volume of papers on the same subject.
And there is always wood to be cut and cattle to be fed and
fences to be mended.

Todd Lowry is still out in those woods finding bears to
rassle.

W&L 17

 

Law and Terrorism

 

International Law Speaks to Terrorist Acts, But How Effectively?

 

DV anc 14, 1985: Lebanese Shiite Moslem
gunmen hijack TWA flight 847 shortly
after takeoff from Athens on the way to
Rome. After two stops in Beirut and two
in Algiers, the aircraft finally comes to
rest in Beirut. Along the way, one
American passenger is killed; several
others are released. The remaining
hostages are taken into the Moslem sec-
tion of Beirut. On June 30, the last 39
An authority on international law, Frederic L.
Kirgis Jr. is dean of Washington and Lee’s
School of Law.

18 =W&L

by Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.

 

 

American hostages are released after
Syrian governmental intervention. Israel
then begins releasing 735 detainees, most-
ly Shiite Moslems, whose release had
been demanded by the hijackers. The hi-
jackers melt into the chaos of Beirut, and
are not prosecuted or extradited.

October 7, 1985: Off the coast of
Egypt, Palestinian terrorists hijack the
Achille Lauro, an Italian cruise ship with
400 passengers and crew members
aboard. The terrorists demand the release

of 50 Palestinian prisoners. On October
9, after they have killed an American
passenger, they surrender in Egypt in
return for a pledge of safe conduct out
of the country. On October 10, in inter-
national air space, U.S. Navy F-14
fighters intercept the Egyptian airliner
flying the terrorists out of Egypt and
force it to land at an Italian-NATO air
base in Sicily. The United States says it
will seek extradition if Italy does not pro-
secute the terrorists. On October 12, Italy

 

releases Mohammad Abbas, who alleged-
ly masterminded the hijacking, despite
U.S. protests. He goes to Yugoslavia,
which refuses to extradite him to the
United States.

November 23, 1985: Terrorists hijack
Egyptair flight 648 en route from Athens
to Cairo. After a shootout between a
security guard and a hijacker, the aircraft

WRN

       

lands in Malta. The hijackers kill seven
passengers, and Egyptian commandos
storm the plane. In the ensuing firefight,
52 more persons on board are killed. All
the terrorists are killed except one, who is
later tried in Malta on 16 counts of
murder, assault and taking hostages.

December 27, 1985: Terrorists attack
the El Al check-in counters at the Rome
and Vienna airports, killing 20 and
wounding 113. Many of those killed or
wounded are at other airline counters
nearby. Security forces fight back at both
airports, killing some of the terrorists and
seriously wounding the others.

These four terrorist outrages, commit-
ted in a period of just over six months,
captured the attention of the world. Na-
tions as diverse as the United States and
the Soviet Union condemned what went
on. The United Nations General
Assembly, a body not known recently for
its sympathy toward U.S. interests,
adopted a resolution by consensus con-
demning ‘‘as criminal, all acts, methods
and practices of terrorism wherever and
by whomever committed. .. .’’ The U.N.
Security Council unanimously adopted a
resolution in which it ‘‘condemns un-
equivocally all acts of hostage-taking and
abduction. . . .”’ Yet we can be sure that
we have not yet seen the end of terrorism
and hostage-taking, that some nations
will continue knowingly to harbor ter-
rorists, and that Western attempts to deal
with the problem will continue to have
limited effect.

What does international law have to
say about all this? Quite a bit, as it turns
Out, but that simply leads to the next
question: How effective can international
law be, when it is trying to cope with

  

fanatics whose ideology not only accepts
but applauds random killing and the
deprivation of liberty for political ends?
International law clearly condemns all
of the terrorist incidents outlined at the
beginning of this article. For example,
one of the principal sources of interna-
tional law is custom followed by nation-
states, and some U.N. resolutions are

TRE SR WO

evidence of custom. The recent resolu-
tions would seem to fall in that category,
couched as they are in mandatory
language and attracting as they did the
support of all member states. The fact
that a few nations do not practice what
they preach may weaken, but does not
destroy, the argument that these resolu-
tions reflect the customary norm against
terrorism.

Treaties provide another principal
source of international law. Often, of
course, they are more detailed (and more
enforceable) than custom. Several
multilateral treaties on terrorism have
been adopted, and some have been widely
ratified, in recent years. Each builds in
some way upon the previous ones, either
attempting to deal with new terrorist
situations, or trying to tighten the en-
forcement provisions, or both.

The first of the important multilateral
treaties was the Tokyo Convention on
Offenses and Certain Other Acts Com-
mitted on Board Aircraft. It was signed
in 1963 and entered into force in 1969. It
deals with acts that jeopardize the safety
of aircraft or of persons or property on
board. The treaty gives the nation in
which the aircraft is registered jurisdic-
tion to punish individuals for these acts,
but it does not require that nation (or
any other) to do so. The problem, of
course, is that the aircraft rarely arrives
at an airport in the nation of its registra-
tion with the offenders still on board. In-
stead, they will have disembarked
wherever they have directed the pilot to
take them, if they haven’t been killed
first. The treaty does not require that
disembarking terrorists be extradited.

The Hague Convention on the Sup-
pression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft,
signed in 1970, and the Montreal Con-

     

vention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation,
signed in 1971, contain several overlap-
ping provisions. These treaties entered in-
to force in 1971 and 1973 respectively.
The Hague Convention deals directly
with aircraft hijacking, while the Mon-
treal Convention covers a broad range of
unlawful acts such as acts of violence in
flight, destruction or damage to an air-
craft, the placing of an explosive device
on an aircraft, and so forth. Both con-
ventions apply only to international
flights. Both go further than the Tokyo
Convention in several respects: for exam-
ple, both require nations that are parties
to establish their jurisdiction over the of-
fenses not only when they are committed
on aircraft of their own registration, but
also when the aircraft of some other
state’s registration lands in their territory
with the offender still on board. They
must also establish their jurisdiction when
the alleged offender is found in their ter-
ritory, even if the aircraft did not land
there, unless they extradite the person to
one of the nations mentioned above.

The Hague and Montreal Conventions
each contain this key provision:

The Contracting State in the ter-

ritory of which the alleged offender is

found shall, if it does not extradite him,

be obliged, without exception what-

soever and whether or not the offence

was committed in its territory, to sub-

mit the case to its competent authorities

for the purpose of prosecution. Those

authorities shall take their decision in

the same manner as in the case of any

ordinary offence of a serious nature

under the law of that State.
Moreover, the offenses are deemed to be
included as extraditable offenses in any
extradition treaty existing between nations
that are parties to the Conventions. Un-
fortunately, this does not necessarily
mean that the offenders will be pros-
ecuted or extradited. The ‘‘competent
authorities’? may decide not to prosecute.
Extradition may be refused, even where
extradition treaties exist. This occurs
because extradition traditionally has not
been required for a political offense. This
exception was originally intended only to
protect persons charged with such of-
fenses as sedition or treason, who had
fled from repressive political regimes in
their own countries. But some nations
have gone much further, and now inter-
pret the political offense exception to ex-
tend to anyone who commits a terrorist
act with political motives. That inter-
pretation totally frustrates the purposes
of the Hague and Montreal Conventions.

W&L 19

 

 

In 1979 the U.N. General Assembly
adopted the International Convention
Against the Taking of Hostages. It
entered into force in 1983. Any nation
that is a party to the treaty is obligated
to ‘‘take all measures it considers ap-
propriate’’ to secure the release of any
hostage held within its territory. In addi-
tion, each party is required to establish

its jurisdiction over any hostage-taking
offenses committed in its territory or on
a ship or aircraft registered there, or
committed by its citizens, or by anyone
with the purpose of compelling it to act
or abstain from acting. Each party also
has the option of establishing its jurisdic-
tion over the offender when the hostage
is a national of that party. Prosecution
and extradition provisions are like those
in the Hague and Montreal Conventions.

The United States is a party to all
these treaties, as are most other Western
nations and several third-world nations.
Even some radical and unstable nations,
such as Libya and Lebanon, are parties
to some of them. Regrettably, though,
the loopholes in the treaties—particularly
the political offense doctrine—very often
prevent them from being effective in-
struments. Rarely can the World Court’s
jurisdiction be invoked in these cases. For
enforcement, that leaves self-help on the
part of target nations such as the United
States and Israel, and raises issues regard-
ing the international legality and effec-
tiveness of some of the measures that
have been used.

From time to time, Israel has
retaliated massively for acts of terrorism.
An example was the bombing of the PLO
headquarters in Tunis in October 1985.
The United States has occasionally used
force, too, as when we intercepted the
Egyptian airliner carrying the Achille
Lauro hijackers and forced it to land in
Sicily. More recently, the United States
has used economic sanctions, ordering
U.S. companies to stop doing business in
or with Libya, and blocking Libyan
assets held by American banks and their
subsidiaries. We have attempted to per-

20 W&L

suade our allies to impose similar
economic sanctions.

Israel had two possible legal justifica-
tions for its bombing of the PLO head-
quarters. One was self-defense, the other
reprisal. The use of force in self-defense
must be both necessary and proportional,
if it is to be lawful under international
law. Arguably, it must also be in direct

 

response to an armed attack. It seems
unlikely that the Israeli bombing attack
could satisfy these requirements. Prob-
ably it was not a lawful reprisal either.
There is a question whether armed
reprisals are lawful at all under the U.N.
Charter. Even if they are, they—like self-
defense—are subject to a proportionality
test. Reprehensible though the terrorist
provocations were, the bombing attack
within Tunisian territory is of doubtful
proportionality. It may even have been
directed against the wrong faction of the
PLO. Moreover, the fact that it caused
considerable harm to Tunisia, not just to
the PLO, weakens the legal justification.
When the United States intercepted
the Egyptian airliner over international
waters, we probably violated Egypt’s
rights unless Egypt consented, either
before or after the incident. Egypt public-
ly denied giving its consent, but after the
initial denial the Egyptian government
seems to have let the matter drop. In
other words, after protecting its image, it
may well have acquiesced in the U.S. in-
terception. If Egypt had not acquiesced,
the United States could be said to have
interfered unlawfully with Egypt’s right
to fly over the high seas. This would be
so even if Egypt were transporting ter-
rorists to an undisclosed destination,
unless we could show that they were
about to launch another terrorist attack
against American or allied interests.
When the United States ordered U.S.
companies to stop doing business in
Libya, it probably violated no interna-
tional norm. The same can be said for
restrictions on trade with Libya. If Libya
were a party to the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade—a multilateral
agreement that applies to a significant

percentage of world trade—there would
be some doubt about the legality of the
trade restrictions. The more radical Mid-
dle Eastern nations are not parties to the
General Agreement, but some countries
that have harbored accused terrorists are.
Yugoslavia is an example.

The blocking of Libyan assets in the
United States raises an international law
issue. When the government of one na-
tion blocks the otherwise-lawful use of
assets owned by citizens of another coun-
try for any significant length of time, it
arguably has expropriated those assets.
Unless it is acting in order to ensure
compensation to itself or its own citizens
for demonstrable losses suffered at the
hands of the other country, it probably
cannot lawfully deny access to the assets
for any extended time. Of course, to the
extent that the United States can
demonstrate that the blocked Libyan
assets bear a relation to Libyan-fomented
terrorist injury to U.S. interests, its case
under international law is strengthened.

Finally, there is the question of the
effectiveness of the U.S. economic sanc-
tions. Unless we can persuade other ma-
jor Libyan trading partners to apply
similar sanctions, we are likely to hurt
our Own businesses more than we hurt
the Libyans. Who, after all, stands to
lose if European suppliers simply take the
place of American ones? One way to try
to get more widespread participation in
such economic sanctions would be to go
to the U.N. Security Council, which has
the express power to order all U.N.
member states to apply them. A Soviet or
Chinese (or even French or British) veto
could frustrate such an attempt. On the
other hand, if terrorism begins seriously
to threaten the interests not only of
Western nations, but of Communist na-
tions as well, the Security Council just
might act. Whether even that would
significantly deter radical countries from
fomenting terrorism is, unfortunately,
another question.

This leaves us with a rather gloomy
prognosis. Preventive measures, such as
security devices at airports, are not
foolproof. When a terrorist act occurs,
extradition is far from certain. The
chances are that the primary sanctions
will continue to be various forms of arm-
ed or economic force, without too much
regard to the international legal niceties
of the sanctions. To an international
lawyer this is cause for real concern, but
until the governments of the world can
reach consensus on the need to band
together to prevent and punish terrorism
effectively, it is about all we have.

 

i
Hi
iL
Hi
i
Li
|
ji
Siem

rt

Sc Soe detente ¥

 

S. oO Bill Whitehurst, ’50, is giving up his seat in Congress
after nine terms as the Republican representative of Virginia’s
Second District. He wants to teach and write, he says, and
soon will do so at Virginia’s Old Dominion University. He
allows that he’s tired: the late hours, the wrangling and
frustration, the staggering caseload of ‘‘other people’s prob-
lems,’’ the glacial onslaught of new legislation, and the inces-
sant pestering of special interest groups—it can wear out the
best of people. So Whitehurst is leaving Congress before that
happens. His decision is a further expression of his good
citizenship. After 18 years, now is the time for reflection.

The fact is that members of Congress these days have
barely enough time to think. They are hugely overburdened,
not only by a massive legislative agenda that seeks to address
a mind-boggling array of issues, but also by the demands of
politics: election and reelection, securing an appropriate
visibility in the media, and keeping the folks back home hap-
py. Sure, most members of Congress today have at their
disposal large and well-paid staffs—congressmen must com-
mand a small army of legislative and public relations person-
nel while serving their constituencies and ‘‘the national in-
terest.’’

But consider what they’re up against. Thirty years ago the
average number of roll call votes in a session was about 150.
Now it’s more than 3,000. Constituent case work has increas-
ed by 100 percent over the past 10 years. The amount of mail
received annually by Congress has increased by over 2000 per-
cent during the same period. While Congress is in session, the
Congressional Record publishes each day’s proceedings in a

Persuasive
Powers

 

Washington Lobbyists
Dobyns, Overton
Wage the War of Information

 

 

This is one in a series of stories about Washington and Lee alumni
who live and work in Washington, D.C.

by Robert Fure

fine-print volume the size of Washington’s own telephone
book. In the weeks just prior to adjournment, when Congress
meets through the witching hour, the daily Record swells to
the size of New York City’s.

Our burgeoning Federal Government each year assumes
unprecedented dimensions. In its zeal—its breathless
aspiration—to keep up with the increasing complexity of na-
tional and global concerns, Washington’s bureaucracy has
swollen in recent years to almost paralytic proportions. The
effect on even the most casual of observers is slightly numb-
ing. Think what it must mean to the members of Congress.

“T’m just plain tired,’’ Whitehurst admits, with his win-
ning presence of mind. ‘‘It’s time to smell the roses.’’

In February, there are no roses in Washington, only com-
motion. Stand in the middle of the Mall on a chilly Sunday
afternoon, that broad expanse of park that extends from the
Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial; close your eyes—no one is
around—and you can hear it still. Like the background hiss
from the Big Bang, a meld of typewriters and traffic, talky-
talk and photocopiers, cheers and a sounding gavel, the clink
of cocktail glasses, the scream of missiles, the trumpeting of
elephants, and the bray of donkeys.

Rio mk ®

Norman L. Dobyns, ’54

’

‘‘Ask not who is in charge,’’ says Norman Dobyns dryly,
looking up from a stack of newspapers and reports on his
desk. ‘‘No one is.’’ Dobyns is on a roll, setting the whole
matter of the federal bureaucracy straight.

W&L 21

 

m,

Norman L. Dobyns in familiar lerritory on the steps of the Capitol

‘*The complicated and shifting personal and institutional
relationships among the White House, the Executive Branch,
their staffs, members of Congress and their staffs, lawyers,
lobbyists, consultants, journalists, and the thousands of
special interest groups represent an awesome government
ganglia. Each day brings new issues, new perceptions, new
alliances, new coalitions, new priorities, new revelations to
confuse and complicate the policies of government.’’

Dobyns is Vice President for Public Affairs for Northern
Telecom Inc. As such he is his company’s chief lobbyist, with
special responsibility for ‘‘the Hill.’”’ He didn’t earn his job
selling telephones—Northern Telecom is the world’s largest
supplier of fully digital telecommunications systems and the
second-largest designer and manufacturer of telecommunica-
tions equipment in North America. He got where he is by
understanding how government works. Indeed he must, for his
job is to influence legislation, especially as it relates to in-
dustry regulations and foreign trade. Northern Telecom Inc. is
a subsidiary of Northern Telecom Limited, a Canadian
multinational. Dobyns reports to headquarters in Nashville,
but his perspective, and that of his company, is global.

On the subject of the Federal Government, Dobyns speaks
with the cool savvy of a Washington insider. ‘‘There is no
U.S. Government: there are thousands of U.S. Governments,
each pursuing its own special vision and each as often as not
in conflict with the rest of the Washington establishment. One
government encourages us to export our technology, while
another denies us export licenses for security reasons. One
government frightens us over smoking, while another sub-
sidizes tobacco. The Army, Navy, and Air Force spend more
time fighting with one another over congressional appropria-
tions than they spend worrying about any potential adver-
Sary.’”’

Dobyns has a writer’s delight in paradox, but it is only a
recreational aspect of his thought. He is himself a superb

22 W&L

 

¥) oo ee

 

writer and a solid, serious political
thinker whose knowledge and skills have
made him valuable to a broad variety of
people seeking to understand how
government operates. He views his job as
essentially educational. His art is com-
munication. With 25 years in Washington
behind him, he sometimes muses, like
Whitehurst, on the fond prospect of
working in gentler, more agreeable
surroundings—in a university, teaching
and writing. His subject would be, as it
is now in so many speeches and articles,
the role of lobbyists and special interest
groups in the American political process.
On this subject he is sanguine but sober,
an unabashed advocate of American
capitalism who has made his fortune in-
forming the government of interests com-
mon to both his company and the nation.

Dobyns knows not only how to lobby
but also why, in plain terms, his com-
pany must. His focus is first on the cir-
cumstance of the modern Federal
bureaucracy. ‘‘The enormity of the
government establishment in the U.S. to-
day so overwhelms any human perspec-
tive that our people (for their own protection) have been
forming themselves into a vast array of special interests. There
is no form of human activity so bizarre that it is not
represented by someone in Washington. Labor is here,
business is here, nurses, schoolteachers, consumers of this and
that, producers of this and that; everyone has a lobby, and
everyone is lobbying.’’

He shrugs—this is no real complaint. ‘‘Look, informing
and trying to convince someone of the rightness of a point of
view is one of the most common endeavors of the human ex-
perience: it happens between lovers, spouses, salesmen and
customers, preachers and churchgoers, advocates and jurors,
and between constituents and legislators.”’

Would you begrudge him that right, Dobyns seems to
wonder. ‘‘It is, you know, guaranteed by the first amendment
of the Constitution.’’ Dobyns quotes it frequently in his
various texts—he learned it long ago by heart: ‘‘ ‘Congress
shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom
of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably
to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of
grievances.’ ”’

But the center of Dobyn’s rationale of special interest ad-
vocacy lies in a third principle: ‘‘Lobbying is a necessary func-
tion of our government process. Legislators need the input of
citizens regarding the possible effects of legislative proposals
they are considering.’? And so a massive, relentlessly earnest
industry of influences has come to be. Experts estimate the
number of lobbyists in Washington conservatively at 12,000
professionals. Few doubt that the total cost of maintaining
this “‘input of citizens’? exceeds one billion dollars annually.
For companies like Northern Telecom, the money is the well-
spent cost of doing business.

In Northern Telecom’s Washington office, Dobyns heads a
staff of 10 operatives, most of whom are lawyers. Their job is
to study economic and legislative trends to ponder the im-

 

 

 

 

plications of pending legislation, and then to press their com-
pany’s point of view. It’s not, Dobyns maintains, very
glamorous work, despite the cynical view of some journalists
who assume that lobbyists spend most of their time yammer-
ing at Potomac cocktail parties. Rather, it’s an endless task of
analysis and communication. It might be drudgery were it not
for the incessant swirl of legislative proposals and the shifting
currents of global economies.

Dobyns is at his desk each day at 7 a.m. Twelve-hour days
are the norm. ‘‘Of that time, I spend about seven hours each
day reading—The Washington Post, New York Times, Wall
Street Journal, and a stack of legislative reports. My main job
is simply to stay alert to what’s going on.”’

It shows. Dobyns owns a large, almost hulking frame. He
may have continued to grow after college. His face has the
color and texture of poured concrete, except for the faint blue
glaze under his eyes that comes from staying alert all of the
time. But the words come easily, and with a concerned,
friendly clarity. You know him soon as a master of
persuasion—not the sort of glad-handing, pushy kind that
makes you feel all crawly inside. Rather, there is a disarming
pragmatism about his views of government, his company, and
himself, a seasoned realism that in itself conveys what Dobyns
regards as the one indispensable principle of his operation, the
sine qua non of political influence: integrity.

Dobyns says the value of integrity was most memorably
impressed upon him through the Honor System at Washington
and Lee. He must have learned also the value of hard work.

*‘My economic circumstances were not as favored as most
of the W&L students.’’ Dobyns had to work his way through
school, effectively full time. His various campus and summer
jobs actually enhanced his career training. He was student
assistant to Jack Harper in W&L’s public relations office, stu-
dent editor of both the Alumni Magazine and Student Radio
Broadcast, and political reporter for his hometown paper, the
Newport News Daily Press, during summer vacations.

‘‘From my earliest days, all I wanted to be was a writer—I
didn’t want to be a baseball player or a star, just a writer. It
didn’t matter what kind of writer, though I figured I’d start
as a journalist on my way to the Great American Novel.’’

His most influential teachers were Marvin Perry in English
and—‘‘Well, everyone who took journalism at W&L back
then remembers O. W. Riegel.’’ Dean Gilliam had the most
profound influence on him, Dobyns claims: ‘‘At my entrance
interview, he admitted that he was not all that persuaded that
I would be a success at W&L. He noted my military school
background (seven years at Fork Union) and wondered out
loud whether I could manage a university environment where
no one would be standing over me telling me what to do. In a
sense he challenged me, and I spent the next four years prov-
ing myself.”’

Dobyns graduated magna cum laude and was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa. In addition to his studies and jobs, he was
active in campus political organizations, athletics (crew), and
the drama society and won membership on W&L’s highly suc-
cessful GE College Quiz Bowl Team.

Following graduation and two years of military service,
Dobyns worked in the advertising and public relations depart-
ment at General Electric. In 1960, he became the top assistant
to Virginia’s First District Congressman Thomas N. Downing.
Dobyns moved on from his political apprenticeship in 1967 to
a Job as corporate vice president (public affairs and govern-
ment relations) for American Can Company in Washington.

Six years later he took a similar post at Cutler-Hammer, Inc.
A corporate merger brought him to Nothern Telecom in 1981.

Along the way, Dobyns has done graduate work in
economics at Wharton and holds a master’s certificate in com-
munications and public relations from American University.
He has also been a member of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting
Fellows Program. He is currently on the advisory board of
Acropolis Books—which is nagging him to do a text on lobby-
ing. He has been a devoted community servant to Fairfax
County and his community of Springfield, Virginia, heading a
variety of councils and civic associations.

All this while managing the complex public affairs and
government relations of his company—does he sleep at night?
‘‘Of course. You know, when you want something done, you
should go first to people who are busy. They know how to
find time.”’

Another paradox. Dobyns has you believing it even before
you realize it.

x 2 *®

J. Allen Overton, Jr., ’46

‘‘Our horn of plenty begins with a hole in the ground,”’
writes Al Overton. The motto concludes Overton’s The
Resources War: It Can’t Be Won Without Being Waged, a
flashy pamphlet full of dramatic color photographs, alarming
statistics charted on two-color graphs, and hard-hitting,
eminently quotable prose describing ‘‘the minerals malnutri-
tion of America.’’

As president of the American Mining Congress and
publisher of The Mining Congress Journal, Al Overton is a
different kind of lobbyist. For one thing, his Washington-
based organization is actually an industry association. The
AMC represents over 500 different companies, ranging from
those who own and operate the hole in the ground to those
who manufacture the picks and shovels, from those who
figure out where and how deep the hole ought to be to those
financial institutions who pour money into the hole hoping it
will come back glittering.

Overton’s organization, founded in 1897, is both a clearing
house for information and a coordinator for action on behalf
of the mining industry. It keeps its members informed and
works for policies that will enable the mining industry to
“‘serve the needs of the nation.’’ This is where the lobbying
comes in. It doesn’t make any sense at all to put AMC Head-
quarters in Phoenix.

The AMC’s principal mission is to influence federal legisla-
tion and regulation—mainly environmental—by marshaling in-
formation favorable to the mining industry and bringing these
facts to bear squarely on the brows of Congress and govern-
ment agencies. The AMC is a small vessel compared to some
of the special interest battleships in Washington. Overton is
the captain, and as such heads a staff of 40 lawyers, accoun-
tants, and public relations personnel. He’s the one wearing the
red, white, and blue—his favorite colors—the one with the
President Reagan tieclasp and American Eagle cufflinks. Call
the AMC what you will, but you can’t call its leader
unpatriotic.

Overton is now 65 and will soon retire. He carries a walk-
ing stick with which he manages an old war injury to his back
and his left leg. He’s worked in Washington since 1952; he
knows his way around well enough so that he doesn’t have to

W&L = 23

 

hurry. But he still frets over the enormous task of keeping
AMC’s views before the Congress.

‘“When I became president of AMC 14 years ago, the
Federal Government was very different from what it is today.
Back then there were only 47 committee chairmanships of
significance in both the House and Senate. Under strict rules
of seniority, a mere handful of powerful chairmen virtually
could make or break a bill. Enlisting their support was an all-
important objective.

‘““Today there are 326 committees and subcommittees, each
a jealously guarded fiefdom that competes with all the others
for legislative impact and the public spotlight, and rules of
seniority no longer hold absolute sway. They are part of a
vast congressional machinery that—with all its adjuncts—now
costs some $1 billion a year to run and has more than 40,000
employees. Members of congressional staffs exert tremendous
influence, so it is essential that we educate them about the
mineral industry as well. But there is also constant turnover of
staff personnel, which means the educational task never can
be a one-time thing, but has to be repeated and repeated and
repeated.’’ Overton’s walking stick punctuates each repetition.

But what really gets Overton’s goat these days is the
veritable stoning that the mining industry has received from
environmental groups—‘‘single-issue organizations,’’ Overton
calls them, ‘‘that can turn out armies of volunteers and huge
blocks of voters who are blind to questions of public policy
except for their own narrow concerns.”’

The AMC annual report chronicles several skirmishes with
the Environmental Protection Agency, along with other
government regulatory agencies. Overton grittily observes that
the AMC is outmanned and outfinanced: ‘‘Not being a labor-
intensive industry, mining cannot produce hordes of volunteer
workers. And in view of its present economic circumstances, it
is limited in the amount of cash contributions it can make.”’

He chafes at public misconstrual of the mining industry’s
Own attitude toward the environment. The industry has been a
leader, he insists, in environmental protection. ‘‘We seek to
use the gifts of nature for the benefit of mankind. But you
have to locate and process these gifts in an environmentally
sound manner. Our technology is improving.’’ Overton leans
forward and narrows his eyes to drive home a point: **Mining
is like medicine: we don’t take a leg off the way we did dur-
ing the Civil War. You know, today through new technology
we are actually reclaiming more land each year than we are
mining.’’ Overton points out that companies are now going
back over old open pit mines, grading and seeding them,
mines that were dug quickly and without very good manage-
ment 45 years ago to supply the pressing needs of the war
effort.

But the major campaign in Overton’s ongoing war of in-
formation is public awareness of how vital the mining industry
is to our national welfare. Overton leans back with a sweeping
gesture about the room. ‘‘There’s not a thing in this room—
except the wood—that didn’t come from the end of a pick.’’
He’s thinking not only of the steel, glass, and aluminum, but
of the minerals used for the processing of other materials and
the agricultural minerals that went into the soil that grew the
cotton that went into the curtains that hang on the brass rods
over the windows of the house that, yes, minerals built.

Al and Bette Overton have lived in the same comfortable,
unassuming house in the suburb of Arlington for 30 years.
Secretary of the Army Jack Marsh, ’51L, lives across the
street. They’ve had the inclination and means to move into

24 W&L

 

Al and

Bette Overton at
their home in
Arlington

grander circumstances, but their youngest daughter protested,
so they stayed put. The daughter still lives at home, along
with the old family dog.

The Overtons appear on the cover of the May 1946 A/um-
ni Magazine with their first child Joe, then in short pants. Al
had come back to W&L from the war—five years over the
Pacific in the Army Air Corps. In the photograph, five
couples and their children, the advance guard of W&L’s own
baby boom, stand smiling under dogwood blossoms.

Al Overton first arrived at W&L in 1938, but he enlisted
after President Gaines’s stirring speech following Pearl Har-
bor. He took his law degree in 1946, then returned to his
hometown in West Virginia to practice law. Overton has
always had something to say: within two years he was in the
West Virginia legislature. An unsuccessful campaign for Con-
gress in 1950 didn’t keep him from Washington, however. He
was soon Special Assistant to the Chairman of Citizens for
Eisenhower. Thereafter he held a variety of Republican Party
posts until taking an administrative job with the AMC in
1962.

Bette, who is the good-natured ballast to Overton’s occa-
sionally soaring rhetoric, has been at his side all along. In his
farewell address to the AMC Annual Members Meeting, Over-
ton waxed eloquent: ‘‘With an ebullient spirit and a happy
willingness, [Bette] has immersed herself in the affairs of our
association, taken a lively interest in its concerns, shared my
travels and travails and contributed however and whenever she
could to our success. When you hired me, you got two for the
price of one, and I suspect there are those who will assert that
the better half was the one who was not on the payroll.’’

Bette scrunches her eyebrows. ‘‘I tried to get him to take
that nonsense out.’’? Overton quickly interjects, ‘“You know
Bette’s been in more mines than any woman of her time.’’

Bette counters, ‘‘Oh come on, Al, women are working in
mines today.”’

‘‘No, my dear, I said more mines. I think you’ll find
that’s true.’’

The war of information, with its careful discriminations,
occasionally has a home front.

 

The W&L Gazette

Trustees Reaffirm Investment Policies

ashington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees has decided not to alter the
University’s investment policy with
respect to companies doing business in
South Africa.

At its meeting in Lexington in
February, the Trustees accepted the
recommendation of a three-member sub-
committee, which had been examining the
University’s investment policies and prac-
tices respecting South Africa.

That committee was empaneled in
May 1985, mainly in response to a
student-faculty petition that asked the
University to consider withdrawing sup-
port from companies that do business in
South Africa.

In a statement issued following the
meeting, the Trustees noted that while
‘the South African policy of apartheid is
unconscionable and intolerable,’’ divest-
ment is not the best way to help effect a
change in that policy.

The University currently holds stock
in 27 companies that are conducting
business in South Africa. As of
December 31, 1985, the market value of
the University’s stock in those companies
was approximately $13.5 million of the
total portfolio of $74 million.

The Trustees did examine ways in
which the University ‘‘as teaching institu-
tion and not as investor’’ could respond
to the South African situation. In that
regard, the Trustees appended three sug-
gestions to their statement:

eThat the University administration
explore the addition of scholarship op-
portunities to black South African
students to augment the two four-year
tuition scholarships reserved already
through the Institute for International
Education;

eThat supplemental funds be made
available to enhance a program of
visiting lectures by individuals ‘‘who by
experience and scholarship can shed light
on current developments in South
Africa’’;

eAnd that the administration explore
the possibility of establishing exchange
programs with South African universities.

For the second year in a row, applica-
tions to the W&L School of Law have
shown an increase over the previous year,
defying a national trend of declining ad-
missions figures.

At the same time, statistics indicate
that those students who completed study
at W&L’s law school are landing jobs at
a record rate.

As of February 5, the law school ad-
missions office had received 946 applica-
tions for the 120 positions in the class

 

Edgar F. Shannon Jr., 39,
who retired from the Board
of Trustees this year, was
honored for his 12 years of
service to the Board during
the Trustees’ winter meeting
in Lexington. Shannon, who
was president of the Universi-
ty of Virginia for 15 years, is
Commonwealth Professor of
English at Virginia.

that will enter in August. That compares
with 917 applications on the same date
last year—an increase of three percent.
Those 946 applications included 620 men
and 326 women.

This is the second time in as many
years that W&L’s law school admissions
figures have gone up. In 1985, applica-
tions increased almost 11 percent over the
previous year.

Washington and Lee’s admissions suc-
cess is in contrast to figures indicating a
five or six percent decline in law school
applicants nationwide. Similarly, last
year’s national statistics revealed a

W&L 25

 

decrease in applications, while
Washington and Lee experienced a surge
in admissions.

M. Patricia Walther, assistant dean
and director of admissions and financial
aid at the law school, attributes W&L’s
continued success in its recruitment ef-
forts to ‘‘the style of education that we
offer.’’

Says Walther: ‘‘Students are attracted
to our small, personal atmosphere. There
is a camaraderie among our students,
without the cutthroat competition that is
found in many larger law schools. Our
reputation is growing as a place where
students can receive individualized atten-
tion in a pleasant environment.”’

Once students complete study at
W&L’s law school, they are encountering
increasing success in finding employment.
As of January 21, 60.5 percent of the
students who will graduate in May had
already landed jobs. In comparison, only
50.8 percent of last year’s graduating
class had accepted jobs at the same time.
The number of employers interviewing on
campus also increased from 164 to 186.

‘*These encouraging admissions and
placement statistics are an indication that
the law school at Washington and Lee is
steadily increasing its national reputa-
tion,’’ says Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean
of the School of Law. ‘‘This attracts
students, and it also attracts law firms
that are offering employment.’’

Seniors share Pinney Prize

Seniors Lawrence S. Anker of East
Windsor, N.J., and John-Paul Bouffard
of Berkeley Heights, N.J., are co-
recipients of the annual Edward L. Pin-
ney Prize.

The prize is awarded by a vote of the
University Council and recognizes ex-
traordinary commitment both to personal
scholarship and to the nurturing of the
intellectual life at Washington and Lee.

It was established by the W&L faculty
in 1982 in memory of the late Edward
Lee Pinney, professor of politics from
1963 until his death in 1980.

Anker is a physics, math, and
chemistry major. He has been elected to
Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kap-
pa. He is a member of the varsity wres-
tling team and the Student Recruitment
Committee.

Bouffard is majoring in psychology.
He is also a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa and is active
in both the University’s Glee Club and
the Southern Comfort singing group.

26 W&L

 

Basketball Reunion

Former basketball players returned to the campus in February to participate in the annual Alum-
ni Game. Participants included (front row, from left), Stu Fauber, ’70; Norwood Morrison, ’70;
Mike Wenke, ’79; Doug Clelan, ’73; (second row, from left) Frank Eppes, ’83; Jay Fechtel, ’83;
Dave Leunig, ’80; Tom Jeffries, ’80; (third row, from left), Greg Croghan, ’75; Jeff Baum, ’76;
Don Berlin, ’77; Chris Baldwin, ’84; (fourth row, from left), Tracy Hodge, ’80; Jim Berlin, ’79;
John Lee Graves, ’84; Brian Hanson, ’83; (fifth row, from left), Steve Hand, ’77; Burr Datz,

‘75; Bob Flint, ’77. Despite 39 points by Graves, his Columbia Blue team lost 96-95 to the Navy

Blue squad.

Tulane professor in residence
at Lewis Law Center

Christopher Osakwe, director of the
Eason-Weinmann Center for Comparative
Law at Tulane University, has been nam-
ed scholar-in-residence at Washington
and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center for
the winter semester.

Osakwe will be working on a book
tentatively titled ‘‘Lex Sovietica: Prin-
cipia, Metodologia et Institutiones.’’ In
the book, Osakwe provides a historical,
philosophical, and methodological
analysis of modern Soviet law.

Osakwe studied at the Moscow State
University School of Law from 1962 to
1970, receiving his LL.B. with first class
honors, his LL.M., and his Ph.D.
degrees. He received his J.S.D. degree
from the University of Illinois College of
Law in 1974.

As an expert on Soviet law, Osakwe
served as senior exchange scholar at
Moscow State University, visiting fellow

at the Center for Russian and East Euro-
pean Studies at the University of
Michigan, research fellow at the Russian
Research Center at Harvard and at the
Center for International Legal Studies at
the Hague Academy of International
Law, and a Carnegie Doctoral Fellow at
the Hague Academy.

Doyle joins law library

John P. Doyle has been appointed
associate law librarian at W&L.

Doyle was born in London and later
moved to Australia where he studied law
at the University of Sydney. He received
the LL.B. degree there in 1982 and then
earned the M.L.S. degree from the
University of Denver in 1983.

He has held positions at the
Westminster Law Library and the
Penrose Library at the University of
Denver and worked for 11 years for the
Law Book Company Bookstore in
Australia.

 

 

Atwood

Edward C. Atwood Jr., dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics, has been named the first Lewis
Whitaker Adams Professor of Commerce
at the University.

The professorship is named for the
late Lewis W. Adams, who was Atwood’s
predecessor as dean.

‘‘Many of the very finest teachers and
scholars we have at Washington and Lee
today are professors who came to us
through Dean Adams,’’ said Washington
and Lee President John D. wilson in an-
nouncing the appointment. ‘‘It is
especially gratifying that one of these, the
man who followed Dr. Adams as dean,
will now be the first holder of the pro-
fessorship which honors Dr. Adams’ ser-
vice to the University.”’

Atwood will retire from the deanship
in June and will take a year’s leave
before returning to the classroom in 1987
as Adams Professor of Commerce. At-
wood taught economics at W&L from
1952 until 1960. He was on the General
Electric Company’s staff of economists
for two years, returning to W&L as dean
of students and professor of economics in
1962. He succeeded Adams in 1969.

Adams first came to W&L in 1926 as
assistant professor of economics. He left
in 1930 to teach at Cornell and, later, to
work on Wall Street as a security analyst.
He returned to W&L in 1940 and was
named dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics in 1949.

An ardent supporter of a broad-based
liberal arts education, Adams encouraged
students who planned careers in business
to take courses in the humanities, social
and natural sciences, the arts, and other

areas Outside the normal scope of
business courses.

The common complaint of employers
nationally is that young persons are going
into business who cannot speak or
write,’” Adams once said. ‘‘They need to
be exact in their thinking and writing.
We hope we are going to give our
students a base for continuing educa-
tion.”’

Adams continued to teach at W&L
after stepping down as dean. He died in
1971 at his Lexington home.

The Lewis Whitaker Adams Pro-
fessorship was created through a gift
from Lizinka and F. Fox Benton Jr. of
Houston, Texas. Benton, ’60, is chairman
and chief executive officer of Houston
Oil Fields Company. He has been a
member of the University’s Board of
Trustees since 1977.

The Adams Professorship brings to 11
the number of endowed chairs that the
University currently has to recognize
distinguished faculty members for their
high academic attainments and ac-
complishments in the field of teaching.

 

A house at 10 Lee Avenue that serves
as the Minority Student Association
Cultural Center has been named in honor
of John Chavis, the first black to attend
Washington and Lee.

The Board of Trustees voted to
rename the house during its February
meeting.

A widely respected teacher and
minister in the Presbyterian Church,
Chavis attended Liberty Hall Academy in
1795 after studying at Princeton College
in New Jersey. He later moved to North
Carolina where he opened several schools
and continued preaching and writing until
his death in 1838.

‘‘We are very pleased with the
Trustees’ decision to name the house
after Mr. Chavis,’’ said Anece McCloud,
associate dean of students for minority
affairs. ‘‘This is very important to the
members of the Minority Student
Association and to other minority
students.”’

 

James J. White IV, a Washington and Lee senior from Charlotte, N.C., is proof
that luck—if not lightning—can strike twice.

During the 1986 Superdance to benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association back
in January, White won a raffle for a 1986 Honda Civic. He had a hunch that he
might win. But it was a hunch based as much on history as intuition.

In 1977 when he was a seventh grader at the Charlotte Country Day School, White
won another raffle. The prize? A 1977 Volkswagen Rabbit.

‘It was pretty neat being the only kid in the seventh grade with his own car,”’

White said.

White drove his trusty Rabbit until January when he traded in the car and
bought—you guessed it—a Honda Civic. Now he has two.
The business administration major says he plans to sell the car he won and use

the profits to take a trip to Bermuda.

Meanwhile, the Superdance had another banner year with a total of $34,038 in
pledges received during the 30-hour dance marathon.

Wé&L.

The Generals’ Report

 

Women Swimmers Get Off to Fast Start

 

Avtthoush it is barely off the starting
blocks, Washington and Lee’s women’s
swim team is already well ahead of its
projected pace.

The three swimmers that comprise the
first-year squad overcame phenomenal
odds to touch out Mary Baldwin, which
outnumbered the W&L contingent by
more than 7 to 1, for third place in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Championships. Moreover, one of
W&L’s swimmers, freshman Elizabeth
Miles of Louisville, Ky., has become a
national leader in the long-distance
freestyle events.

Despite her reluctance to be a
spokeswoman for the W&L aquatics pro-
gram, Miles has been in the spotlight—
and on the top step of the victory
stand—all year. She has qualified to
represent the University in the NCAA
Division III National Championships
(March 13-15 in Canton, Ohio), in both
the 1,650- and 500-yard freestyle events.
Her time of 5:17.44 in the 500 was the
fastest among Division III women in the
country for most of the season. Heading
into the national championship, she was
ranked fourth in the event.

Her success in the pool, and the fact
that she is a member of the first coeduca-
tional undergraduate class at Washington
and Lee, has made Miles the focus of
considerable interest. She has already
been the subject of one television sports
feature.

‘*! feel bad that I have gotten so
much of the attention and perhaps taken
away some attention both from the men’s
team, which has been so successful over
the years, and from my fellow teammates
on the women’s team (Nancy Whalen and
Emily Bevill),’’ says Miles. ‘‘In fact, I
owe them all a great deal for their sup-
port and friendship this season.’’

The daughter of Steve Miles, ’51,
Elizabeth was hesitant about joining the
first coeducational class at W&L, but her
visit to the campus and her interview
with aquatics coach Page Remillard
changed her mind. ‘‘My father gave me a

28 W&L

by Mark Mandel

 

Freshman Elizabeth Miles of Louisville, Ky., heads off the starting blocks. Miles and five

 

cael

members of the W&L men’s team were to compete in the national championships in mid-March.

Results were unavailable at press time.

little encouragement, but I really fell in
love with the campus and had a great
talk with Coach Remillard,’’ she says.
Because there are so few women
swimmers on the W&L squad, they train
with the men. On the average, Miles and
her teammates log 7,000 to 8,000 yards
of training per day. During the Christmas
break they swam nearly 50 miles. ‘‘I gen-
uinely love the environment here. I didn’t

expect to swim this fast but all the train-
ing and the support has helped me.
Athletes always perform better when they
are happy, and I have been very happy
here,’’ she says.

Miles is not the only W&L swimmer
who can smile about the season. Five
members of the men’s squad qualified for
the NCAA Championships, too. Senior
Tim Stanford of lowa City, Iowa, will

 

 

 

compete in the 100- and 200-yard butter-
fly. Junior Jay ReVille of Raleigh, N.C.,
qualified to swim the 100- and 200-yard
individual medley events and the 200-yard
backstroke. Freshman Moose Herring of
Boone, N.C., will swim the 200-yard
backstroke and the 400-yard individual
medley. Freshman David Reavy of Pott-
stown, Pa., will swim the 500-yard
freestyle. And freshman Matt Brady of
Charlotte, N.C., will swim the
breaststroke on W&L’s medley relay
team.

Biccocci coach Verne Canfield had
the youngest squad in his 22 years at
W&L this past winter with no seniors,
three juniors, four sophomores, and five
freshmen. Even so, the Generals over-
came their lack of experience to reach the
championship game in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference and finish with a
14-13 record.

After finishing the regular season with
a 7-7 ODAC record and being seeded
seventh in the tournament, the Generals
scored consecutive upsets over second-
seeded Lynchburg (68-62) and third-
seeded Maryville (59-56) before losing in
the championship game to Roanoke
(68-61).

‘*Aside from that final game we
played well down the stretch,’’ says Can-
field, who now has 18 winning seasons in

 

 

 

W&L Athletes
Recognized
For Academics

be than a week after a former
University of Georgia professor was
awarded $2.5 million in the highly
publicized trial that called into question
the low academic standards required of
that university’s athletes, the following
headline appeared in the Roanoke Times
& World-News:

‘‘Washington and Lee grades high for
honoring its athletes.”’

The story, a column by Roanoke
Times sports editor Bill Brill, began:

‘*With all the bad publicity concern-
ing college athletics and academics being
churned out these days, it’s a pleasure to

report that there is also some good news.”’

The column went on to present an ac-
count of a newly established Academic-
Athletic Honor Roll, which recognizes
students who earn grade-point averages
of 3.5 or above and are members of var-
sity teams.

"We decided to institute the
Academic-Athletic Honor Roll because
we wanted to recognize the extraordinary
efforts of some fine individuals,’’ said
William D. McHenry, W&L’s director of
athletics. ‘‘We also wanted to illustrate
that success in the classroom and in var-
sity athletics can, and does, coexist.”’

Statistics indicate that many W&L
student-athletes have already proven
McHenry’s point. In the fall term, 45 var-
sity athletes earned at least 3.5 averages;
nine had a 4.0 average or better.

Fourteen of W&L’s 15 varsity teams
had combined grade-point averages of at
least 2.6. The student body’s average
grade point was 2.64 in the fall. |

‘*l am very proud of those numbers.

 

Jefferson
Harralson

They show that W&L athletes are
students first and that there is a correla-
tion between athletic success and
academic achievement. I think that in-
dicates a discipline that is required for
proficiency in both areas,’’ McHenry
said.

Included on the first Academic-
Athletic Honor Roll were: 12 football
players, four soccer players, six men’s
cross country runners, one women’s cross
country runner, two water polo players,
one basketball player, four wrestlers,
three swimmers, two baseball players,
three golfers, two men’s tennis players,
three women’s tennis players, two
lacrosse players, and seven track and field
athletes. (Five student-athletes with 3.5
grade-point averages or above par-
ticipated on two different teams.)

The athletic department has made ten-
tative plans to recognize those who make
the Academic-Athletic Honor Roll with
a display in the Warner Center. The
honor roll will be updated each term.

W&L

 

his 22 years as head coach. ‘‘We had our
struggles, but we also grew as a team and
developed some maturity which will help

. ; ; in W&L Invitati l
in the future. We accomplished a lot, in- Second in nvitationa

W&L 35, Newport News 13

cluding many things that you will not see W&L 48, Hampden-Sydney 2
in a won-lost column.”’ W&L 45, Loyola 9

Junior forward Jefferson Harralson W&L 36, Johns Hopkins 10
of Princeton, Ky., led the team in both Duke 43, W&L 13

W&L 42, Davidson 9

scoring (15.3 points per game) and re- Wet 44. Wirsinia State 13
bounding (6.4 average), and sophomore W&L 42, Longwood 12

guard Steve Hancock was second in scor- First in W&L College Invitational
ing (15 points per game). Both Harralson W&L 43, LaSalle 12

W&L 35, Gannon 13

and Hancock were named to the all- Washiheton.& Jefferson 20, W&L 19

ODAC second team.
The Generals’ wrestling team recorded
its fifth consecutive winning season under

head coach Gary Franke, who won his W&L 68, VMI 43
100th match. The Generals finished with Johns Hopkins 64, W&L 53
a 9-2 dual meet record and won the eee a 76, opt 2 W&L 58, Shippensburg 37
W&L College Invitational. pie anaintd Wek 02, Geetaren a:
cee : a oe Emory 61, W&L 58 W&L 70, Frostburg 41
Ors ae W&L 65, Hampden-Sydney 57 James Madison 63, W&L 34
N.J., and Win Phillips of Westminster, Lynchburg 66, W&L 58 W&L 65, Towson State 47
Md., represented W&L in the NCAA W&L 65, Greensboro 64 Shepherd 46, W&L 42
Division III national championships at W&L 82, Cortland State 75 Gettysburg 52, W&L 43
Trenton State W&L 92, Thomas College 80 W&L 66, Mary Washington 8
Nazareth 67, W&L 66 W&L 70, William and Mary 36
Anker, a math/physics/chemistry er W&L 67, Maryville 62 Second in Tri-State Championships
jor, was selected to the Wrestling W&L 44, Roanoke 42
Coaches Association Academic All- W&L 58, Bridgewater 49
American team. ‘‘I can’t think of a more pastern Mennonite 51, Wel. 50
.; a Emory & Henry 79, W&L 73
deserving person for that award,’’ said W&L 58, Lynchburg 56 Mary Baldwin 57, W&L 35
Franke. ‘‘Larry has had phenomenal suc- W&L 58. Bridgewater 54 Johns Hopkins 57, W&L 19
; g
cess in the classroom and on the wres- Mary Washington 69, W&L 63 Sul acest Wiarieg
tling mat all four years he has been Roanoke 59, W&L 56 EUSEU RE 2 a
h . > Anker h a 20-5 dia 4k W&L 83, Eastern Mennonite 81 Shepherd 62, W&L 12
ere. nker had a 20-5 record in the W&L 73, Emory 37 Gettysburg 67, W&L 12
134- and 142-pound divisions and was Maryville 84, W&L 67 Mary Washington 58, W&L 29
one of nine W&L student-athletes to earn W&L 68, Lynchburg 62 Sweet Briar 80, W&L 19
at least a 4.0 grade-point average in the W&L 59, Maryville 56 Randolph-Macon Woman’s 90, W&L 23
Roanoke 68, W&L 53 Third in ODAC Championships

fall term.

W&L’s indoor track team won its
third consecutive ODAC title by taking
firsts in seven events and using its
superior depth to score points with other 4 ee ——
high finishes. | lll

‘*‘We had fine performances from just
about everyone on the squad,”’ said head
coach Norris Aldridge, who was selected
as Coach of the Year.

Individual W&L winners were junior
Tom Murray of Princeton, N.J., in the
shot put (45 feet, 8 inches); junior John
Burlingame of Metairie, La., in the long
jump (21 feet, 7'4 inches); sophomore
Andy White of Winchester, Va., in the
55-meter hurdles (8.01 seconds); senior
Conrad Boyle of Cockeysville, Md., in
the 800-meter run (2:00.92); and senior
Billy Rhinehart of San Francisco in the
triple jump (43 feet, 11 inches). The
Generals also won both the 400- and
3,200-meter relays. Senior Chris Bleggi of
Weedville, Pa., a member of the
400-meter relay team, was named ODAC
Runner of the Year.

 

   

Bice

Senior Larry Anker on the way to another victory

30. W&L

 

 

Alumni News

Celebrating Robert E. Lee’s Birthday

Obert E. Lee’s birthday was the focal
point for numerous chapter activities dur-
ing January.

As part of its observance of Lee’s
birthday, the Louisville chapter welcomed
two members of Washington and Lee’s
Class of 1990, both of whom were admit-
ted for next fall under the Early Decision
Plan—Susan Davis (daughter of Mark B.
Davis Jr., °56, ’58L) and Robert
Whayne.

The Mid-South chapter gathered at
the Memphis home of Robin Smithwick,
°84, for its celebration while Farris P.
Hotchkiss, director of development and
University relations, spoke to the Blue
Ridge chapter during a combined Lee’s
Birthday party and annual meeting.

As has been its custom, the Atlanta
chapter descended on the home of
Trustee Bo and Eileen DuBose for its
Lee’s Birthday celebration. Meanwhile,
the Rockbridge chapter used its
‘‘homecourt advantage’’ with a reception
at the Lee House hosted by President and
Mrs. John D. Wilson followed by dinner
at Evans Hall. The Dallas chapter observ-
ed a Founders’ Day luncheon on Jan. 20.

Washington and Lee alumni in several
areas made their Christmas holidays a lit-
tle brighter by renewing acquaintances at
chapter functions.

The Middle Tennessee chapter par-
ticipated in the ‘*2nd annual Christmas
Gala’’ that included alumni from Yale,
Harvard, Princeton, North Carolina,
Sewanee, and the University of Virginia.
Similarly, the Winchester chapter joined
alumni of other Virginia colleges for the
Commonwealth Christmas Ball at the
Shenandoah Country Club in Rockland,
Va.

The Lynchburg chapter held a
Christmas dance while the Northwest
Louisiana chapter gathered for a
Christmas reception in Shreveport.

Several alumni chapters recently
received updates on campus events when
members of the administration made
presentations at meetings this winter.

In November, President Wilson spoke
to a combined meeting of the Greensboro
and Winston-Salem chapters and to the
Eastern North Carolina chapter. He ad-
dressed the annual business meeting of
the New Orleans chapter in January.

 

ATLANTA—Eileen DuBose receives a gift
from Mike Thornton (left) and Robert
Ballentine for serving as hostess for Lee’s
Birthday Party for seven years.

 

 

 

 

| oi
NORTHWEST LOUISIANA —Celebrating
Christmas were (from left) Witt Caruthers,
*83; Mrs. Katherine Caruthers; and Andrew
Caruthers, ’87.

EASTERN NORTH
CAROLINA—
Participating in the
chapter’s meeting were
(from left) Janet
Thornton; Matthew
Towns, ’74; and
Reginald Wright, ’83L.

EASTERN NORTH
CAROLINA—From
left, Ted Vaden, ’69;
Betsy Vaden; Greg
Crampton, °69; Martha
Crampton; Beth
Crampton.

CHARLOTTE—
Attending the
Charlotte meeting
(from left) Doug Faris,
76; Steve Jones, ’83;
Lu Dudley, ’76; Dee
Dee Dorrell; Claiborne
Irby, ’77.

W&L 31

 

 
  

GREENSBORO—On hand to hear President John Wilson were (from

left) Sandra Greene; Bette Dunker; Bill Dunker, ’55; and Kenny
Greene, ’67.

AEs

 

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Discussing admissions assistance are (from
left) Warren Wilcox, ’57; Bo McEwan, ’40L; Drew Thomas, ’70; Ken
Clayton, ’70; and Alumni Admissions Program coordinator Jim
Farrar.

as.
ek ae
SAARC aR ee $ ee =

PP Ad Fda a

F

‘he Ld

cone

GULF apter activities in Miami are (front
row, from left) Doug Brocker, ’80L; Jim Farrar; Paul Stanton, ’67,
‘71L; and Doug Chumley, ’82L; (second row, from left) Lee Feldman,
84; Larry Craig, 66; Mike Spector, ’68; and Bud Clarke, ’66.

Meantime, John Elrod, dean of the
College, was featured at meetings of the
Palmetto and Richmond chapters; Lewis
John, dean of students, spoke to the
Charlotte chapter; and associate alumni
director Buddy Atkins was the special
guest of the Arkansas chapter.

New Officers

Greeting Students,
Present and Future

The Northern New Jersey chapter
held a reception for nine current
undergraduates and 23 prospective
students during the Christmas holidays.

The Florida West Coast chapter
32) W&L

AAP representative;

 

 

 

 

welcomed the Generals’ lacrosse team,
which spent the Washington Holiday
training in the Florida sunshine, at a par-
ty at the home of Trustee Tom and Lee
Touchton in mid-February.

Several chapters have elected new of-
ficers. Among those are:

Central Florida: Kenneth Clayton, ’70,
president; Drew Thomas, ’70, Alumni-
Admissions Program representative;

Gulf Stream (Miami): Lawrence B.
Craig II, ’66, as president; Lee Feldman, ’84,

     

; j
4 $e
, ie
j iF
oe
7
- 2
. p
h &;

PALM BEACH—Planning for future chapter events are (from left)
Hugh Glickstein, ’55; Nick Smith, ’63; Manley Caldwell, ’58; Skip
Smith, ’64; and Hank Gonzalez, ’68.

i FRR ie RRR EU

 

 
  
 

 

a |

FORT LAUDERDALE—Preparing to launch the 82nd alumni chapter
are (from left) Rick Woulfe, ’76L; George Morgan, ’68; Don Cart-
wright, ’72; John Esperian, ’59; and Jim Mendoza, ’80.

 

=

is a natural

   

 

  

. :
RS .
= x Ss
& RS 3
. i ; .

ARKANSAS—On their way to a chapter outing are (from left) Mark
Grobmyer, ’72; Libby Grobmyer; Lee Thalheimer, ’73; Libby
Thalheimer; Tuck Morse, ’67; Harriet Stephens; Lawson Turner, ’72L
(seated); Warren Stephens, ’79; Sandi Turner; Greg Wilson, ’72; Mark
George, ’76; Nat Griffin, ’64; Jane Griffin; and Janet Miller.

 

Fort Lauderdale: Donald B. Cartwright,
°72, president; Rick Woulfe, ’76L, and Jim
Mendoza, ’80, AAP representatives;

Palm Beach: D. Culver (Skip) Smith III,
°64, °67L, president; Hank Gonzalez, ’68,
AAP representative;

Richmond: Channing Martin, ’75, ’79L,
president; Pres Rowe, ’60, and Ware Palmer,
*82, vice presidents; Bob Cross, ’54, secretary;
and John Watlington, ’72, treasurer;

Atlanta: Michael T. Thornton, ’70, ’78L,
president; Robert M. Balentine Jr., ’79, vice
president; J. Thad Ellis III, ’82, secretary and
AAP representative; Randolph L. Hutto, ’70,
treasurer.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms All black lacquer
$160.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va. $150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

1926

Charles H. Hamilton is celebrating his 60th year
with Media General, the parent company of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch and the Richmond
News Leader. He has served the company in
capacities ranging from reporter to his present
position as consultant. He lives in Richmond.

Edwin A. Morris received the ‘‘Distinguished
Citizen of the Year Award for 1984-85”’ given by
the North Carolina District East Civitans. Mor-
ris, former president and chief executive officer
of Blue Bell Inc., is now a trustee of the American
Institute for Economic Research in Washington.
He lives in Greensboro, N.C.

1930

Dr. Murrell H. Kaplan is the author of an article
entitled ‘‘Stress, Pancreatic Perfusion, and Acute
Pancreatitis’? published recently in The Mount
Sinai Journal of Medicine. Kaplan continues full-
time medical practice in New Orleans.

1936

Arthur E. Hauck and his wife, Beverly Jean, are
now living in Southport, N.C.

Dr. Martin Z. Kaplan was recently honored at a
banquet given by the Louisville, Ky., Council for
Retarded Citizens for his 35 years of work to secure
quality medical care for mentally handicapped
children.

Frank L. Price is chairman of the ‘‘Washington-
Lincoln Laurels for Leaders’? program, which
honors student body presidents from the 73 public,
private, and parochial schools in San Diego Coun-

ty, Calif.
1940

Lloyd E. Worner Jr. recently retired after 18 years
as president of Colorado College. He had been
associated with the college for the past 35 years.

194]

Frederic B. Farrar is a professor of journalism at
Temple University and lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

Robert C. Petrey retired as vice president of
Eastman Kodak Co. in January. He is an alder-
man for Kingsport, Tenn., and plans to remain

active in politics.
1942

Green Rives Jr. of Mansfield, La., has retired from
Nabors Trailers Inc. He was with the company for
40 years, serving the past 10 years as president and

general manager.
1944

John Schuber Jr. has retired from Wachovia Bank
and is now living in Charlotte, N.C.

1946

Since his retirement from North American Steel
in 1979, David P. Hauseman has been working as
an investor/investment advisor in Lakeland, Fla.

Edmund S. Willis retired as chairman of Elgin
Electronics in 1984 and is now a regional manager
with Marlin Firearms Industrial Division. He lives
in Erie, Pa.

W&L 33

William H. Pifer has been elected president of the
Virginia Society of Otolaryngology Head & Neck
Surgery. He lives in Winchester.

In his current assignment for the U.S. Informa-
tion Agency, Brian Bell is public affairs officer to
the commander-in-chief of the U.S. central com-
mand at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa.

Walter F. Little Jr.’s company, Little Publication
in Memphis, was recently featured in a series of
articles on leading farm publications in Agri-
Marketing, the national trade magazine of the agri-
business field. Little is president of the company.

John Schuber Jr. (See 1944.)

George F. Arata Jr. has been named city executive
for Southeast Bank, N.A., of Miami.

John P. Bowen’s latest book, Portraits of
America: Virginia, was published in 1985. It is a
portrait of contemporary Virginia in a historical
context. Bowen lives in Newport News, Va.

Arthur Hollins Ill of Lake Charles, La., was
elected to the board of directors of First Commerce
Corp. in Lake Charles. He is chairman and presi-
dent of First National Bank of Lake Charles.

C. Peter Leninger has been appointed director of
finance for Oil Dynamics Inc. in Tulsa, Ariz.

Lester I. Levine recently moved to Nokomis, Fla.
He operates the Royal Coachmen Campground,
a camping resort in Venice, while maintaining his
law office in Winter Park.

C. Scott May is the rector of St. James Church
in Marietta, Ga.

Hayes C. McClerkin Jr. of Texarkana, Ark., has
been elected to the board of trustees of Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College. He is a member of the
Dallas law firm of Smith, Stroud, McClerkin,
Dunn & Nutter.

The Rev. Dr. Daniel D. Dickenson has been named
executive director of Florida United Presbyterian
Homes Inc. in Lakeland, Fla., which provides a
variety of care for the aging. Dickenson was
previously president and chief operating officer of
Westminster-Canterbury in Virginia Beach.

H. Gordon Leggett Jr. of Lynchburg, Va., has
been elected to the board of trustees of Episcopal
High School.

Dr. Robert McGeehan,
director of the Universi-
ty of Southern Califor-
nia’s graduate program
in London, has been ap-
pointed to the United
States-United Kingdom
Fulbright Commission.
He has also been re-
elected as a_ senior
associate member of St.
Antony’s College, Ox-
ford University.

 

Laurence Levitan is a Maryland state senator and
chairman of the senate budget and taxation com-
mittee. He recently joined the law firm of Beckett,
Cromwell and Myers in Bethesda, Md.

34. W&L

 

David W. McCain has joined Davidson and Jones
Development Co. in Raleigh, N.C., as executive
vice president.

MARRIAGE: Edgar L. Grove and Sandra Hen-
ny on Oct. 12, 1985, in Lancaster, Pa. Grove is
in real estate management/development and
business brokerage work in Lancaster.

In November 1985, Dudley D. Flanders was part
of a comparative law delegation to New Zealand
and Australia sponsored by the People to People
Ambassador Program. Flanders is an attorney in
New Orleans.

John K. Kane II was appointed by former Virginia
Governor Charles Robb in September 1985 to serve
on the York River Basin Committee for the
Chesapeake Bay.

H. Bennett Meador Jr. has been elected trust of-
ficer/administration at Piedmont Trust Bank in
Martinsville, Va. Meador and his family live in
Henry County, Va.

George F. Milligan has been elected chief executive
officer and chairman of the board of Norwest
Bank Des Moines in Iowa.

Robert G. Bannon has
been elected president
and director of the new-
ly formed Connecticut
Title Association Inc.,
which consists of the ma-
jor title insurance com-
panies conducting
business in Connecticut.
He is vice president, state
manager, and counsel for
First American Title In-
surance Co. in
Connecticut.

Marion G. (Pat) Robertson, ’50, was
featured on the Feb. 17, 1986, issue of
Time magazine.

Robertson is president of the Virginia
Beach-based Christian Broadcasting Net-
work. The cover photo of Robertson was
keyed to a major feature entitled ‘‘Gospel
TV—Religion, Politics and Money,”’
which examined the growing influence of
the so-called ‘‘televangelists.’’

Although the article referred to such
other TV evangelists as Billy Graham,
Jerry Falwell, and Oral Roberts, much of
the focus was on Robertson, who is
reportedly considering making a presiden-
tial bid in 1988.

The 7ime piece mentions that Robert-
son was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of
Washington and Lee and details his
development of the Christian Broad-
casting Network and CBN University.

 

H. Greig Cummings Jr. has been elected to the
board of directors of Bankers Mutual Insurance
Co. He is also on the board of Collington
Episcopa! Life Care Community, a life-care facility
for the elderly.

Charles F. Davis Jr. lives in Tokyo, Japan, and
works with Asian/Australian operations of the
Bank of Montreal.

Philippe C. Labro became directeur general des
programmes (general manager) of Radio Tele Lux-
embourg in August 1985. He has executive super-
vision of all departments and services of the RTL
radio and television network. He lives and works
in Paris, France.

Thomas D. Wilkerson is vice chairman of the
board of trustees for the University of Charleston
(W.Va.).

Charles F. Davis Jr. (See 1957.)

H. Bennett Meador Jr. (See 1956.)

MARRIAGE: Dr. Donald E. Larmee and Sandra
(Brandi) Miller Kennedy in Lee Chapel on Jan.
18, 1986. The service was performed by Universi-
ty chaplain David Sprunt. The couple resides in
Knoxville, Tenn., where Larmee_ practices
pediatrics.

Dwight R. Chamberlain has been made an
honorary member of Plymouth Harbor, a retire-
ment home in Sarasota, Fla. He has lectured at
the home on wildlife and ornithology. He lives in
Scottsburg, Ind.

Dr. William N. Offutt has returned home to Lex-
ington, Ky., from Caracas, Venezuela, where he

ae maa
5 patty
; r’ Now

a Fe

eee
ag

lelevangelist
Pat Robertson

 

was a visiting lecturer on ophthalmic plastic
surgery at the National Institute of

Ophthalmology.
1962

William R. Anderson Jr. became head of the
department of languages and literature at Hun-
tingdon College in Birmingham, Ala., in July 1985.
His essay entitled ‘‘Gatsby’s Long Shadow’’ has
been published in a Cambridge University Press
series on American novels.

In July 1985, R. Bryan Miller became chairman
of the chemistry department at the University of
California at Davis.

Dr. Bruce A. Ratcliffe practices medicine in Hun-
tington, W. Va. He is president of the Cabell
County Medical Society.

Col. Rufus C. Young Jr. has been elected to the
board of directors of the San Diego Imperial
County chapter of the American Red Cross.

1963

An article by Dr. E. Ross Kyger III was recently
accepted for publication by The Journal of
Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery. The arti-
cle presents an improved method for surgery on
the mitial valve. Kyger resides in Houston.

On Jan. 1, 1986, John P. March became president
of M Bank West in El Paso, Texas. He had been
senior vice president and manager of M Bank El
Paso.

H. Michael Walker is president of Guest Quarters
Development Corp., which now has 11 hotels in
its chain. In 1985 the firm, which is headquartered
in Norfolk, completed hotels in Tampa and
Charlotte, N.C., and began construction on two
others in Austin, Texas, and Bethesda, Md.

1964

Frederick E. Cooper has been elected vice chair-
man of the board of Flowers Industries Inc., which
is based in Thomasville, Ga.

Alvin B. Hutzler II has been elected to the board
of directors of the National Association of Tobac-
co Distributors.

S. Gwathmey Tyler has formed Reager and Har-
ris Inc., a property and casualty brokerage firm.
He lives in Anchorage, Ky.

John T. Winebrenner was promoted to vice presi-
dent of brand management for R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. in October 1985. He lives in Winston-
Salem, N. C.

Robert G. Bannon (See 1957.)

1965

After ending his term as attorney general for the
Commonwealth of Virginia, William G. Broad-
dus has joined the Richmond law firm of McGuire,
Woods and Battle.

John W. Hunt has been named president and chief
operating officer of Tree Sweet Products Co., a
national juice and beverage company based in
Houston.

George M. Sanders practices clinical psychology
in Cherry Hill, N.J.

Robert F. Stauffer, an associate professor at
Roanoke College, is also vice president of San-
dridge, Stauffer and Lynch, Inc., an economic

consulting firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rutherford, a son,
Robert Bruce III, on Sept. 4, 1985. Rutherford is
a producer for NBC News in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Vaughan III, a
son, Robert Crews IV, on Feb. 8, 1985, in Charlot-
tesville, Va.

Thomas G. Day is vice president of sales for
Biotherm, a division of Cosmair, Inc. He lives in
New York.

J. Michel Marcoux practices law in Washington,
D.C., where he lives with his wife, Mary Fontaine,
and three children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James D. Awad, a
daughter, Amanda Joan, in June 1985. Awad is
founder and president of BMI Capital, an asset-
management firm in New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Tucker Morse, a
daughter, Catherine Nevin, on Sept. 3, 1985, in
Little Rock, Ark. :

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Staples, a
daughter, Carter Blanchard, on Aug. 6, 1985, in
Columbus, Ga. Staples is an attorney in Colum-
bus. He is a little league baseball and football
coach for his older children, Charles Jr., 12, and
Dorsey, 8.

Ward W. Briggs, a professor of classics at the
University of South Carolina, has been named
editor of Vergilius, a scholarly journal devoted to
studies of the poet Virgil.

P. Rowland Greenwade, a major in the Texas Air
National Guard, was recently awarded the Air
Force Commendation Medal. He lives in Austin
where he is general counsel to a Texas state
senator.

J. McDaniel Holladay has become director of the
South Carolina Development Board. He maintains
his home in Charleston with his wife, Jeanne, and
daughters, Jennifer, 14, and Sarah, 7.

William L. Want has moved from Washington,
D.C., to Charleston, S.C., where he practices law
with Buist, Moore, Smythe and McGee.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William C. Schaefer, a
daughter, Allison, on Dec. 6, 1984, in Kendall, Fla.
Schaefer is director of marketing for J.R. Brooks
and Son Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. Whitney Thornton II,
a daughter, Virginia Anne, on March 20, 1985,
in Danville, Calif.

Paul M. Neville has been appointed by. Gov. Bill
Allain of Mississippi to a commission to revise the

state constitution.
1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edwin B. Vaden Jr., a
daughter, Annie, in October 1985 in Raleigh, N.C.
Vaden is city editor of the News and Observer.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Wright III, a
son, Andrew McDowell, by adoption, on Oct. 7,
1985. The family lives in Charlotte, N.C., where
Wright is division president of Martin Develop-
ment Co.

In March 1985, former Virginia Gov. Charles
Robb appointed Charles R. Chittum to the
Virginia Tourism and Travel Services Advisory
Board. Chittum is in his third year as legislative
liaison for the Virginia Association of Communi-
ty Services Boards in Richmond. He also main-
tains his Christmas tree farm and home in Chur-
chville, Va.

Roy G. Harrell Jr. is president of the St.
Petersburg, Fla., Chamber of Commerce and first
vice president of the Pinellas County United Way.

He has been appointed by the governor to the
board of the Southwest Florida Water
Management.

On Feb. 1, 1986, Rev. Julian W. Walthall became
minister of the Central Presbyterian Church in
Mobile, Ala.

John T. Whetstone recently received his master of
divinity degree from Reformed Theological
Seminary. He and his wife, Nancy, live in Jackson,
Miss.

MARRIAGE: Brent G. Hankins and Mai Marska,
on Sept. 8, 1985. The couple lives in Bridgeton,
N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Joseph Dozier Jr., a
daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on June 30, 1985, in
Charlotte, N. C. Dozier is managing partner in the
Charlotte law firm of Dozier, Brackett, Miller,
Pollard and Murphy.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Reeve W. Kelsey, a
daughter, Barbara Blakey, on April 22, 1985, in
Perrysburg, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. Lamar Mixson Jr., a
daughter, Elizabeth Florentina, on March 14,
1985.

Paul D. Buskey is a stockbroker with A. G. Ed-
wards in Sarasota, Fla.

Henry L. Hills Jr. had a showing of his collection
of short films in the Cineprobe exhibit at the
Museum of Modern Art in New York on Dec. 16,
1985.

William P. McKelway Jr., staff writer for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, recently won a first-
place award in the feature story division from the
Virginia Press Association. He also received the
best writing award from United Press
International.

Bruce A. Myers has been promoted to special pro-
jects manager for the correctional fac‘lities plan-
ning and construction division of the Arizona
department of administration. He lives in Mesa,
Ariz.

Robert H. Yevich has been appointed vice presi-
dent and branch manager at Tucker, Anthony &
R.L. Day Inc. in New York. He lives in Westfield,
N.J., with his wife and two children, Courtney and
Turner.

D. Whitney Thornton II (See 1968.)

197]

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Roy D. Carlton, a son,
David Andrew, on Dec. 11, 1985, in Stanford,
Calif. Carlton is married to Catherine D’ Alessan-
dro Carlton, formerly of New York, N.Y. He is
senior attorney for Ford Motor Co. at the Ford
Aerospace & Communications Corp. western
development laboratories. The family lives in Palo
Alto, Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven L. Hawley, a
daughter, Julia Redmond, on Oct. 9, 1985, in Don-
caster, Yorkshire, England. The family now lives
in Oxford, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. McDonald Wellford Jr.,
a daughter, Kelley McDonald, on April 5, 1985,
in Richmond. She joins a two-year-old sister,
Margaret.

Dr. Christopher D. Friend practices cardiology in
Charlottesville and at the University of Virginia.
Friend ran in the most recent New York City
Marathon.

W&L 35

Stephen M. Kerkam is a staff supervisor with Bell
Atlantic. He is also in the company’s marketing
training and development program. He and his
wife, Nicki, live in Westminster, Md.

Bruce C. Lee is a partner in the Philadelphia law
firm of Bolger, Picker and Weiner. He, his wife,
Deborah, and year-old daughter, Christine
Elizabeth, live in Strafford, Pa.

Clark B. Leutze is employed as a senior technical
planning and acquisition analyst at the Pratt &
Whitney Division of United Technologies. Leutze
makes his home in Berlin, Conn.

Robert R. Radcliffe is market manager for energy
systems at Prime Computer. He is responsible for
marketing programs to energy industries
worldwide. He lives in Milford, Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Long, a
daughter, Amanda Ellis, on Dec. 7, 1985, in New
York. Long is executive vice president of Millburn
Corp.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Walker Jr., a
son, Robert Bradshaw, on Jan. 7, 1986, in Rich-
mond, Va.

Leland C. Clemons resides in Fort Worth, Texas,
where he is an executive vice president with Inter-
first Bank.

Edward G. Moore, vice president for development
at Austin College, has been elected an elder at the
Grand Avenue Presbyterian Church. He and his
wife, Tina, live in Sherman, Texas, with their
children, Adam, 6, and Amanda, 3.

BIRTH: Mr.and Mrs. Joffre J. Cross II, a son,
Joffre James III, on Nov. 1, 1985. Cross isa part-
ner in the Houston insurance agency Langham
Langston & Dyer.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. John C. Dovel of Freehold,
N.J., a son, Tyler Lawrence, on Sept. 8, 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William C. French, a son,
Marshall Cabell, on June 4, 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Patrick Hinely, a
daughter, Juliet Frances Hanson, on Jan. 7, 1986,
in Lexington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. Haller Jackson III, a
daughter, Marian Edens, in Shreveport, La., on
Nov. 22, 1985. Jackson is president of the
Shreveport Young Lawyers Division of the local
bar, vice president of the Shreve Memorial Library
Board, and secretary of the YMCA Metro Board.

G. Archer Frierson II received the Shreveport
Jaycees’ 1985 Outstanding Young Farmer Award.
He is serving a two-year term on the Caddo Parish
School Board and is chairman of the budget com-
mittee and a member of the board of deacons of
the First Presbyterian Church of Shreveport.

The Rev. Daniel H. Collmus is pastor of the
Cochranton, Pa., Christian and Missionary
Alliance Church. He, his wife, Melinda, and three
children, Rebecca, Rachel, and Andrew, live in
Cochranton.

Robert P. Barlow practices family medicine in
Albuquerque, N.M., where he lives with his wife,
Cathy, and daughter, Gillian.

Richard S. Mandelson is now a partner in the law
firm of Baker & Hostetter in Denver, Colo.

J. Jason Matthews and his wife, Suzanne, are liv-
ing in Budapest, Hungary. Matthews is the vice
consul at the U.S. Embassy’s Consulate General.

36 W&L

While he was visiting the Com-
monwealth of Dominica last October, Dr.
Homer F. Gamble, ’70, had the rare op-
portunity to meet with Queen Elizabeth
Il of England.

Dr. and Mrs. Gamble were in Roseau,
Dominica, at the invitation of Eugenia
Charles, Prime Minister of Dominica and
President of the Eastern Caribbean
States. Gamble, who is chairman of the
South Carolina Water Resources Com-
mission, met with Prime Minister Charles
to discuss strengthening Dominica’s ties
with the University of South Carolina,
Clemson University, and the Thurmond
Institute of Government.

During their visit, the Gambles attend-
ed festivities in honor of Queen Elizabeth
and Prince Philip.

At one point in the ceremonies, Dr.
Gamble presented the Queen with

Robert D. Posey of Birmingham, Ala., is the depu-
ty district attorney of the 10th Judicial Circuit of
Alabama.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James C. Ferguson, a
daughter, Kelly Marie, on June 4, 1985, in Ed-
mond, Okla. Ferguson is an associate with the
Oklahoma City law firm of Fenton, Fenton,
Smith, Reneau and Moon.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Frackelton Jr.,
a son, Robert Leigh III, on July 16, 1985, in
Fredericksburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William F. Rienhoff IV,
a son, William Francis, on Nov. 21, 1985, in
Baltimore, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William H. Sanders Jr.,
a son, David Winland, on July 19, 1985, in Mis-
sion Woods, Kan. He joins a brother, Bryan, 2.

Dr. William F. Beacham was admitted this year
as a fellow of the American College of Obstetri-
cians and Gynecologists. He is in private medical
practice in Hammond, La.

W. Edward Blain has been appointed to the Rufus
Wilson Higginbotham Chair at Woodberry Forest,
a private school in Virginia. Blain joined the
Woodberry faculty in 1982 and has been serving
as acting chairman of the English department.

In August 1986 James B. Hornor will become prin-
cipal of the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School in
Rabun Gap, Ga. The school is well-known for its
Foxfire publications. For the past six years, Hor-
nor has taught English at the Stony Brook School
on Long Island.

Duncan S. Klinedinst, an attorney with the
Washington law firm of Hogan and Hartson, is
moving to the firm’s office in Tyson’s Corner, Va.

Matthew Towns has been elected vice president of
Wachovia Bank & Trust in Raleigh, N. C.

John M. Zamoiski recently became senior vice

 

a piece of original Catawba Indian pot-
tery crafted by a South Carolina native.

president of Entertainment Marketing Services Inc.
in New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Crawford, a son,
Harrison Beecher, on April 5, 1985. Crawford is
employed by Mostek Corp. in Carrollton, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Fred K. Granade, a son,
Joseph Kee, born Aug. 1, 1985, in Bay Minette,
Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Alexander H. MacKintosh,
a son, Stuart Kerr, on July 1, 1985. MacKintosh
is a senior manager in the national office of Ernst
& Whinney in Cleveland, Ohio.

Curtis E. Boswell Jr. was made general counsel
of Schneiden Commercial Real Estate Inc. of
California. He currently resides in Long Beach,
Calif.

Grady C. Frank Jr. is practicing law with Thomas
& Fiske in the firm’s Alexandria, Va., office.

Thomas O. Rainey III is currently in private law
practice in Dinwiddie, Va.

In January Robert S. Stubbs joined the law firm
of McVay & Stubbs in Canton, Ga., as a partner.
For the past four years he has worked in Atlanta
as an assistant United States attorney for the nor-
thern district of Georgia.

MARRIAGE; Craig H. Coller and Leslie Berger
on Jan. 12, 1985. Coller is assistant county at-
torney and hiring coordinator in the Dade Coun-
ty, Fla., county attorney’s office.

MARRIAGE; Harry W. Wellford Jr. and Robin
A. Sonneland in November 1985 in St. Louis, Mo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William H. Ogburn Jr.,
a daughter, Charlotte, on April 4, 1985. Ogburn
is a vice president in the corporate finance depart-
ment of Interstate Securities in Charlotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Paul K. Stillwagon, a son,
Matthew Clowe, on Jan. 4, 1985. Stillwagon is

 

completing a two-year fellowship in pediatric
allergy and immunology at Children’s Hospital in
Pittsburgh.

Dr. Carey D. Chisholm is director of emergency
medical residency at Brocke Army Medical Center
in San Antonio, Texas.

John A. Cocklereece Jr. has announced the for-
mation of a law partnership, Hendrick, Zotian and
Cocklereece, in Winston-Salem, N.C.

John B. Keefe is a broker with Dean Witter in
Richmond.

Clendon H. Lee Jr. has joined the U.S. Attorney’s
office for the District of Columbia.

Bayard J. Snyder recently formed the law firm of
Phillips and Snyder in Wilmington, Del.

William T. Tiers III of Virginia Beach is employed
by Brownell-Electro, a New York-based supplier
of electrical insulation.

James P. Watson is a feature writer for the
Washington (D.C.) Times.

1977

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Barry O. Barlow, a son,
Frank, on Feb. 13, 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. M. Calhoun Colvin Jr., a
daughter, Holly, on May 18, 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James A. Jones IV, a
daughter, Whitney Worthington, on Aug. 3, 1985,
in Lexington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stuart W. Serenbetz, a son,
William Tucker, on March 27, 1985. Serenbetz is
vice president of Goldome Realty Investments in
Manhattan.

William J. Flesher has moved to St. Louis, Mo.,
to join Aaron D. Cushman and Associates, a na-
tional public relations agency.

Christopher P. Goldsmith is a shift security super-
visor at Fidelity Bank Operations Center in
Chester, Pa.

Bruce H. Rabun is deputy district attorney for the
18th Judicial District in Denver, Colo.

Samuel E. Thompson is a mortgage loan officer
with I.C.A. Mortgage in Atlanta, Ga.

David C. Urano is a producer and director for Blue
Ridge Public Television.

1978
MARRIAGE: Howard A. Rubel and Janet F.
Katz on Sept. 28, 1985, in New York. Rubel is an
associate director with Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc.
stockbrokers.

MARRIAGE: Michael M. Wallis and Mary Ellen
Grodhaus on Dec. 28, 1985, in Titusville, Fla. The
couple resides in Cocoa Beach where Wallis is a
partner in the law firm of Wolfe, Kirschenbaum
& Mosley, P.A.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Carmody III,
twin sons, Harrison Gerard and Kenner Newport,
on Nov. 17, 1985, in Richmond.

BIRTH: Jill Edwards Dougherty and Dennis M.
Dougherty, a son, Patrick Edwards, on Sept. 16,
1985, in Charlottesville, Va. Patrick joins older
sister, Abigail, 4. Dennis is an executive editor at
the Michie Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John D. Long, a daughter,
Jessica Slasman, on July 20, 1985. Long is
employed by Maryland National Bank in
Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gregory C. Sieminski, a
daughter, Kristen Grace, on July 1, 1985.

Maurice G. Adams is a sales representative for
MCI Communications Corp. in Baltimore, Md.

A. Michael Airheart has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president with NCNB National Bank in
Tampa, Fla.

George L. Carson Jr. is attending the executive
master’s program at Northwestern University.

Peter C. Keefe has been promoted to vice presi-
dent with the brokerage firm of Johnston Lemon
Inc. He works and lives in Alexandria, Va.

Richard B. McDaniel was recently appointed pro-
ducts manager for Universal Medical Instrument
Corp. of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

Michael J. Missal is senior counsel with the divi-
sion of enforcement of the Securities and Exchange
Commission in Washington, D.C.

W. Gordon Ross II has left the Navy and is at-
tending graduate school in international affairs at
Columbia University.

Robert B. Tremblay is leaving his position as
editor-in-chief of The Wellesley Townsman
newspaper to pursue a career in musical composi-
tion in Paris, France.

David A. Tumen is a tax attorney in Columbus,
Ohio. Tumen was recently married to Patty
Telford.

Lt. William G. Welch, USNR, has left active du-
ty to accept a position as a systems flight test
engineer with Grumman Aerospace Corp. He lives
in Jefferson Station, N.Y.

1979

J. Peter Clements is in charge of product develop-
ment and asset fidelity management and planning
at the Bank of Southside in Carson, Va.

John A. Craig and his wife now live in Taipei,
Republic of China.

F. Baldwin Harrington III is a software engineer
at Sperry Corp. in Charlottesville, Va.

John T. Jessee has become a member of the
Roanoke law firm of Woods, Rogers &
Hazelgrove.

Dr. Stephen D. Trigg is completing his residency
in orthopedic surgery in Atlanta. He was married
in April 1984 to Katherine Montague.

Douglas B. Wyatt is a partner in the newly form-
ed law firm of Looper, Reed, Ewing and McGraw
in Houston.

Landon R. Wyatt was recently made a partner of
Trammell Crow Co. He and his wife, Edith, live
in Charlotte, N.C.

1980

MARRIAGE: Michael J. Monaghan and
Claiborne Larimore McDowell on June 15, 1985,
in Williamsburg, Va. Members of the wedding par-
ty included the bride’s father, John F. McDowell,
°$2, °54L; Charles V. Terry, ’80; Jeffrey T.
Powers, 80; David C. Short, ’84; David A. Greer,
80; James H. Flippen III, ’79; and J. Brooks Flip-
pen, *82. The couple lives in Tarrytown, N.Y.,
where Monaghan is a teacher and varsity wrestling
coach at the Hackley School. |

MARRIAGE: Russell B. Parmele Jr. and Diane
Lee Parke on March 30, 1985.

MARRIAGE: Mark D. Smith and Jean H.

Cameron on May 11, 1985. Smith is assigned to
the 1st battalion 64th armor, 3rd infantry division
in Kiteingen, West Germany. He assumed com-
mand of D company in December 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. MacDonald, a
son, Frank Duncan Jr., on August 28, 1985. The
MacDonalds live in Charleston, W.Va.

Cary G. Booth is in the market planning depart-
ment of Norfolk Southern Corp.

William L. Garrett Jr. has formed a law partner-
ship, O’ Donnell and Garrett, P.A., in Wilmington,
Del.

Carl E. Perry is currently stationed at Fort
McClellan, Ala., where he is chief of ad-
ministrative law. He and his wife, Deborah, live
in Anniston, Ala.

Guy T. Steuart III is working in commercial real
estate and mortgage banking for Walker & Dunlop
Inc. He lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

1981
MARRIAGE: Raymond K. Best and Patricia E.
Evans on Dec. 29, 1984, in Baltimore, Md. Best
is manager of overseas operations at the Frankfort,
West Germany, engineering firm Buchart-Horn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Foy, a son,
Robert Edward III, on Aug. 18, 1985, in Atlan-
ta, Ga. Foy is a systems representative for Moore
Business Systems in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Sisk Jr., a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on Dec. 9, 1985. Sisk
is a marketing manager for Piedmont Engineer-
ing in Charlotte, N.C.

W. Warren Crowdus III graduated from the
University of Chicago School of Law and is now
an associate with the firm of Baker and McKen-
zie in Chicago.

Kevin B. Dwyer is an associate in international
trade and customs with the Washington office of
the New York law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie
Alexander and Ferdon. He will receive his master’s
degree in East Asian government from the Univer-
sity of Virginia in May 1986.

Jeffrey W. Hamill is a national account executive
for Redbook magazine. He lives in New York.

George R. Irvine III is an associate with the New
Orleans law firm of Millig, Benson, Woodward,
Millizes, Hillyer and Miller.

Allan G. King is working with Rotan Mosle Inc.
in Houston, Texas.

A. William Mackie has joined the Raleigh, N.C.,
office of Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge and Rice as
an associate attorney specializing in bond and
securities financing. He lives in Durham, N.C.,
with his wife, Linda, who is a doctoral candidate
at Duke.

Stuart A. Mason is working for New York City’s
Port Authority.

Max V. McLaughlin Jr. received his medical
degree from the University of Alabama School of
Medicine in Birmingham. He now lives in New
York.

Bishop B. Norris has become a partner with
Vawter, Gammon, Norris and Collins, P.C., a
public accounting firm in Memphis, Tenn.

Russell Z. Plowden graduated from the Universi-
ty of South Carolina law school in 1984. He now
practices law in Columbia, S.C., where he and his
wife, Sally, live.

W&L 37

 

D. Bruce Poole passed the Maryland Bar and join-
ed his father in forming the law firm of Poole and
Poole in Hagerstown, Md. He has been elected
president of the local county-wide Democratic
Club.

Jefferson J. Reiter is pursuing an M.B.A. degree
at the University of Michigan.

Edwin S. Ryan Jr. has been transferred by Tex-
aco Inc. from Midland, Texas, to Denver, Colo.

John K. Schmidt has been promoted to the rank
of captain and will be assigned to the aeromedical
research laboratory at Fort Rucker, Ala., as a
research psychologist.

Richard B. Silberstein is working with Franklin
and Morris Associates in Baltimore.

1982
MARRIAGE: Eric H. Burns and Martha J. Hat-
chett on Nov. 9, 1985, in Indianapolis. The cou-
ple resides in Lafayette, Ind., where Burns is a
lawyer with Hanna and Gerde.

MARRIAGE: James B. Haynes III and Kimber-
ly A. Fetty on June 29, 1985, in Charleston, W.Va.

MARRIAGE: W. Phillip Rockecharlie and Willow
Lynn Walker on Oct. 19, 1985, in Charlotte, N.C.
Rockecharlie is assistant plant manager of the
Charlotte Steel Drum Corporation.

MARRIAGE: Lizanne Thomas and David W.
Black on Oct. 5, 1985. The couple lives in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: John A. Wells III and Elizabeth
Vardell on Oct. 12, 1985, in Columbia, S.C. The
couple lives in Atlanta, where Wells is attending
Emory University School of Medicine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary A. Johnson, a
daughter, Samanthe Leigh, on June 15, 1985. The
family lives in Charlottesville, where Johnson is
in his last year at the University of Virginia School
of Medicine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark G. Rentschler, a
daughter, Catherine Elizabeth, on Nov. 21, 1985.
Rentschler was recently promoted to quality con-
trol manager with Southwestern Ohio Steel Inc.

James V. Bent Jr. completed a master’s degree in
geology at Stanford University in October 1985.
He now lives in Manhattan Beach, Calif., and
works for Texaco, USA.

William F. L. Brown is a metals and currency
trader for Refco Inc. in New York.

F. Brian Gibson will graduate in May from the
Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest
University in Winston-Salem, where he and his
wife, Mary, live. Following his graduation, he will
become a resident in otolaryngology at the Univer-
sity of Texas Medical College in Galveston.

Ehrick K. Haight Jr. has been employed as a staff
attorney with the Supreme Court of South
Carolina since September 1985. Haight and his
wife, Jeanne, live in Columbia.

Lawrence C. Norford graduated from the Univer-
sity of Virginia School of Law in May 1985. He
now is an associate in the Pittsburgh law firm of
Tucker Arensberg.

Charles M. Patrick II is a commercial underwriter
for the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies in
San Antonio, Texas. He is a member of the St.
Luke’s Church parish board and president of the
St. Luke’s singles group.

Robert T. Schmidt is a staff assistant in the of-
fice of presidential advance at the White House.
He lives in McLean, Va.

Charles L. Scott Jr. has joined the law firm of
Scott and Scott in Elkton, Md., as an associate.
He was chosen as a delegate to the 1984 Republican
National Convention.

Timothy C. Taylor graduated from the Universi-
ty of Texas School of Law in May 1985 and is now
an associate with the firm of Lynch, Chappell, All-
day & Alsup in Austin, Texas.

Tony A. Trujillo Jr. has been appointed senior ex-
ecutive of public and media relations for Interna-
tional Telecommunications Satellite Organization
in Washington, D.C.

W. Lawrence Wescott II earned his law degree
from the University of Maryland law school and
is an associate with the Baltimore law firm of
Weinberg & Green.

1983

MARRIAGE: Lawrence R. Duffee and Keene
Delahay Embrey on Oct. 12, 1985, in
Fredericksburg, Va. Duffee received his M.B.A.
from Wake Forest in 1985 and is the master plan-
ner for Stedman Apparel Company in Asheboro,
N.C.

MARRIAGE: M. Robin Maddox and Ralph J.
Luongo on Sept. 28, 1985, in Philadelphia. Both
are assistant city solicitors in Philadelphia.

 

38 = W&L

MARRIAGE: Bruce E. Wennerholm and Wendy
Williams on Aug. 10, 1985. Wennerholm is in the
graduate business program at Emory University.

BIRTH: Nancy Jean Bradford and her husband,
T. Edward Damer, a son, Taylor Bradford-Damer
Stone, on Sept. 26, 1985, in Abingdon, Va.

Steven D. Corbeille is vice president of Yardstick
Interiors of Georgetown in Alexandria, Va.

Michael J. Farr is employed in the Staff Judge Ad-
vocate’s Office at Tinker Air Force Base in
Midwest, Okla.

Eugene S. Forrester Jr. of Memphis recently co-
authored an article in the Tennesse Bar Journal.

Howard E. Gill is in his third year of medical
school at Eastern Virginia Medical School. He
hopes to work with medical missionaries in Latin
America.

Capt. John M. McGarry is now chief defense
counsel at the Marine Corps base in Palms, Calif.

David P. Ridlon is currently an assistant S-2(In-
telligence) for the 325th Infantry Regiment, 82nd
Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C.

Henry W. Royal is working as a sales represen-
tative for H.M. Royal Inc. in Charlotte, N.C.

John H. Sensabaugh was named manager of the
year for 1985 by Jack Eckerd Corp.’s Carolina
district. Sensabaugh and his family live in
Lewisburg, W.Va.

James E. Stanley received a master’s degree in
nuclear engineering from the University of
Virginia. He now works for Baltimore Gas and
Electric and lives in Lusby, Md.

While Rhodes Scholar John C. Viahoplus pursues
his master’s degree in legal philosophy at Trinity
College of Oxford University, he is also playing
midfield for the University’s lacrosse team.
Vlahoplus plans to resume his studies at the Har-
vard law school this fall.

MARRIAGE: Benton J. Mathis Jr. and Angeline
C. Fleeman, ’85, in August 1985. The couple lives

in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: Wade M. Meadows and Nancy
Lynn Johnson on Nov. 30, 1985, in Kinston, N.C.

R. Allen Haight is a consultant in Peat Marwick’s
acquisition advisory service department in New
York.

Peter M. Muller works with Lotus Development
in New York.

Christopher M. Murphy has been promoted to
senior account administrator with IBM Corp. He
lives in Washington, D.C.

Laurie A. Rachford is an attorney with the law
firm of McKenna, Conner & Cuneo in
Washington, D.C.

Parker B. Schenecker has been promoted to Ist
lieutenant in the U.S. Army Intelligence Corps.
He is stationed at Fort Hood, Texas.

Charles E. Schwab is an associate with the labor
law firm of Ford and Harrison in Atlanta, Ga.

James T. Seidule has been promoted to Ist lieute-
nant. He is an armored platoon leader for the Sth
Battalion of the 68th Armored Division stationed
in Mannheim, West Germany.

Charles C. Sherrill Jr. has joined the Atlanta real
estate firm of Landauer Associates Inc.

 

William D. Woolfolk joined Virginia Power as a
nuclear power plant control room operator trainee
in November 1985.

1985
MARRIAGE: Harry W. Golliday and Sarah O.
Wagner on Dec. 21, 1985, in Martinsburg, W.Va.
The couple lives in Winston-Salem, N.C., where
Golliday is a corporate officer for Wachovia Bank
and Trust Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kevin J. Buckley, a
daughter, Erin Arceneaux, on Dec. 19, 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert Woofter Jr., a
son, Brett Wolfgang, on Nov. 21; 1985, in An-
chorage, Alaska. He joins brother Bobby, 4.
Woofter is in private law practice in Anchorage.

G. Bryan Balazs is doing chemical research at the
University of Erlangen-Nurnberg, West Germany,
on the ITT Fellowship he won last year.

2nd Lt. David D. Branscom has completed an ar-
mor officer basic course at the U.S. Army Armor
School at Fort Knox, Ky.

Kim S. Brunson is a cast member/student in Up
with People. He makes his home in Tucson, Ariz.

Robert D. Bryant is staff reporter for the New
Mexico Business Journal in Albuquerque.

After completing a clerkship in the Eighth Circuit
of the U.S. Court of Appeals, J. Randall Coffey
will join the law firm of Stinson, Mag and Fizzell
in Kansas City.

J. Cole Dawson is an analyst with Solomon
Brothers Inc. in New York.

Mark E. Kellogg has been made an associate with
the firm Fraser, Trebilcock, Davis & Foster P.C.
in Lansing, Mich.

Mark D. Knobloch is a corporate credit analyst
for Equitable Bank, N.A., in Baltimore.

Lt. Clark H. Lewis has completed the nine-week
military intelligence officer basic course at the Ar-
my Intelligence School at Fort Huachuca, Ariz.

Duane C. Presten III is employed at the Trust
Company of Georgia in Atlanta.

Robert A. Schlegel is attending Naval Officer Can-
didate School in Newport, R.lI.

Christopher H. Williams is a first-year graduate
student in business administration at Harvard
University.

Angeline C. Fleeman (See Benton J. Mathis Jr.,
1984.)

D. Bruce Poole (See 1981.)

 

In Memoriam

 

1911

William Trent Neel, a retired executive with
Philadelphia Electric Co., died March 25, 1985,

in Wayne, Pa.
1912

Paul Ayres Rockwell died Aug. 22, 1985, in
Asheville, N.C. He was a veteran of both World
Wars, serving as a colonel with the U.S. Army Air
Corps. He also fought in the Rif War as a member
of the Foreign Legion of France and was the only
American decorated with all three French Croix

de Guerre. He was a member of the Downtown
Club, the North Carolina Society of the Cincin-
nati, North Carolina Literary and Historical
Association, and Western North Carolina
Historical Association.

1913

William Trent Neel (See 1911.)

1923

Clyde Horace Cross Braden of Scotts Valley,
Calif., died Feb. 10, 1985.

Edward Powell Rosamond Jr. of Birmingham,
Ala., died May 31, 1985.

1928

Howard Kreider Tayloe, former president of
Tayloe Paper Co., died Jan. 7, 1986, in Memphis,
Tenn. He joined the family business in 1928 and
became president in 1948. He transformed the
company into the largest wholesale paper
distributor in the Mid-South before selling it in
1973 to I.U. International Corp. Tayloe remain-
ed president until 1978 and was still associated with
the sales staff at the time of his death. Tayloe serv-
ed as a major in the Army Air Corps during World
War II. He was president of the Rotary Club,
former chairman of the Youth Service Board, a
vestryman at Calvary Episcopal Church, president
of the Calvary Loyalty League, and a member of
Future Memphis, the University Club and the
Memphis Country Club. In 1958-59, he was presi-
dent of the Mid-South Fair.

1929

Massillon Miller Heuser of Birmingham, Ala., died
Oct. 27, 1985. He was a trial attorney with the U.S.
Department of Justice.

1931

Ralph Peery Grant, retired merchant, died Jan.
28, 1986, in Kingsport, Tenn. Grant was a 40-year
member and past district governor of the Rotary
Club and a member of the First Presbyterian
Church of Kingsport.

1932

George William Barnes Jr. died June 21, 1985, in

Durham, N.C.
1934

Willard Charles Walkinshaw died Oct. 13, 1984,
in Battle Creek, Mich.

1938

Anthony Brooks Young died July 12, 1985, in

Louisville, Ky.
1939

Brentano Charles Harnisch died Dec. 17, 1985, in
San Antonio, Texas. Harnisch joined Pioneer
Flour Mill in 1937 and was made corporate
secretary in 1954 and vice president in 1957. He
was named to the Pioneer board of directors in
1954. Harnisch was president of the Texas Grain
and Feed Association, a member of the board and
secretary of Marketing Specialist Corporation, and
a member of the San Antonio Chamber of Com-
merce, the San Antonio and Texas manufacturers
associations, and the board of the San Antonio
Food Bank. He was also a member of the Sigma
Nu fraternity, the order of the Alamo, the San An-
tonio Country Club, and the Christ Episcopal
Church.

Ross Pelton Schlabach died in August 1985 at his
Alexandria, Va., home. He attended the U:S.
Naval Academy before coming to W&L, where he
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Following gradua-

tion he worked for newspapers in Richmond, Col-
umbia, S.C., and Alexandria. In the 1950s he was
dean of the journalism school at the University of
South Carolina, and in the early 1960s he was
chairman of the journalism department at George
Washington University.

1943

Raymond Gordon Long died Dec. 31, 1985, in
Baltimore, Md. After graduation from W&L,
Long enrolled in officers’ training at Notre Dame
University and served in the U. S. Navy for the
duration of World War II. He was discharged in
1946 with the rank of lieutenant. Long retired in
1982 from Bethlehem Steel Co. after 30 years of
service in the industrial engineering department of
the company’s Sparrow Point, Md., plant.

1944

Robert William Milliron of Vandergrift, Pa.,
former president of the Hyde Park Glove Co., died
Jan. 8, 1986, in Natrona Heights, Pa. He was a
member of the Masonic Lodge and other Mason-
affiliated organizations, the Chamber of Com-
merce, and the Pennsylvania Economy League.

George Twyman Wood, marketing manager for
the Barbee Co. in Louisville, Ky., died Jan. 16,
1986. Wood was a W&L class agent and a past
member of the board of directors of the Alumni
Association. He served in the Army Air Corps dur-
ing World War II. Wood was a member of the
Church of the Good Shepherd.

1948

Raymond Elijah Freed, retired partner in the
Waynesboro, Va., law firm of Edmunds, Freed,
Cooley, died Jan. 26, 1986. Freed was a member
of the American, Virginia, and Augusta County
bar associations and the Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association. He was also a member of the Bethany
Lutheran Church.

1949

Stanley A. Kamen, one of Hollywood’s most suc-
cessful agents, died Feb. 13, 1986, at the UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles of lymphoma. He
was 60. A native of New York City, Kamen earn-
ed his law degree at W&L and then entered the
legal department of the William Morris Agency
in New York City. In 1953 he was persuaded by
a Morris executive to relocate in Los Angeles. Once
there, he became an agent and rose to the posi-
tions of executive vice president, member of the
board of directors, and worldwide head of the mo-
tion picture division at the international talent
agency. Among Kamen’s clients were Barbra Strei-
sand, Warren Beatty, Diane Keaton, Goldie
Hawn, Joan Collins, and Gregory Peck, and direc-

% tors Mark Rydell, Alan ~
Pakula, George Roy
Hill, and Norman
Jewison. As head of the
agency’s motion picture
division, he was involved
in suggesting talent and
arranging financing for
dozens of major films.
Early in his career as an
agent, Kamen persuaded
the late actor-producer
Dick Powell to hire Steve McQueen for a televi-
sion series tentatively titled ‘‘Wanted Dead or
Alive.’’ He was credited with turning McQueen
into a leading man, getting him casted in the
feature film The Magnificent Seven. He asked Col-
umbia Pictures to rewrite the co-starring role in
The China Syndrome into a female part after

: = 3

° Poe eS oY

   

W&L 39

 

Richard Dreyfuss had pulled out of the picture and
he then secured Jane Fonda to play opposite Jack
Lemmon. Once called ‘‘the most self-effacing per-
son in show business’’ by actor Warren Beatty,
Kamen was renowned for a soft-spoken style that
belied the power he wielded in Hollywood. Of her
former agent, Barbra Streisand said: ‘‘He didn’t
have a malicious bone in his body. He was a sweet
and gentle man. He conducted himself with digni-
ty, integrity, and honesty.’’ Kamen contributed ex-
tensively to such organizations as Big Brothers/Big
Sisters, the American Health Foundation, the Or-
thopedic Hospital City of Hope, and Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center. In 1984 Kamen became the first
recipient of the Israel Prime Minister’s Award
from the Entertainment Division of the United
Jewish Fund. In his remarks at the banquet for
that award, Sen. Edward Kennedy said: ‘‘. . . The
story of Stan Kamen is a powerful witness to the
truth that one individual can make a difference.
Most of all, we honor him because he understands
that the miracle of America is inextricably bound
up for all time with the miracle of Israel.’’ He is
survived by his sister, Judy Mitchell, of Pacific

Palisades, Calif.
1950

James Gibbons Sheridan, owner of Hamric and
Sheridan Jewelers in Lexington, Va., died Feb. 5,
1986. Sheridan was a member of the St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church in Lexington.

1963

Horace England, an attorney in Winston-Salem,
N. C., died Aug. 29, 1985. England formerly serv-
ed as district counsel for the Veterans Administra-
tion in Reno, Nev.

1968
David Lawrence Greenia died Nov. 25, 1985, in
Reading, Pa. He earned his master’s degree in
philosophy at Yale University and taught in the
public schools of St. Croix, Virgin Islands.

1969

Leon Brooks Hines, vice president of Hines Realty
and chairman of the board of Escambia Insurance
Agency, died of a heart attack Dec. 7, 1985, in
Brewton, Ala. He served in the Alabama
legislature from 1974 to 1982, during which time
he chaired the Legislative Prison Oversight Com-
mittee and helped secure funds for improvements
in the Alabama prison system. He was a member
of the Brewton City Council, chairman of the
Brewton-East Brewton United Way, and a coach
for various youth sports.

Don Conklin Wakeman III died Dec. 18, 1985,
in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

1977

Randall Brevard Johnson, an assistant vice presi-
dent with the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company,
died of cancer on Nov.
14, 1985, in Charlotte,
N.C. He was an active
member of Friendship
Missionary Baptist
Church, Alpha _ Phi
Alpha Fraternity, and the
Charlotte Contemporary
Ensemble. At W&L, he
was a member of the
Glee Club, Mu Beta Psi
music fraternity, and the
Student Association for
Black Unity.

 

40 W&L

And Furthermore

 

EDITOR:

I don’t know how many letters you receive
from wives of alumni about your University class
agents, but I have such heartfelt sentiments about
George Wood, ’44, that I hope you will take note
of the love and devotion which touched those of
us married to Washington and Lee graduates.

Each class that comes along has at least one
member who serves to remind his peers of what
W&L has meant to them, singly and as a group.

I haven’t had the chance to meet all those
others who have served their school so, but for
these 37 years I have seen the loving affinity and
deep devotion shown by George to Washington
and Lee.

His devotion to your University is a compli-
ment to both: W&L and George T. Wood.

HARRIET A. BALLENGER
(Mrs. Clarence E. Ballenger, ’44)
Spartanburg, S.C.

(Editor’s Note: Mr. Wood died in January; see ‘‘In
Memoriam.’’)

EDITOR:

As a liberal arts graduate of Washington and
Lee and a career soldier, I feel called to respond
to the generalizations in Richard E. Kramer’s
piece, ‘‘Real-World Liberal Arts,’? which appeared
in the January/February Alumni Magazine.

As the armed forces move farther away from
conscription to the all-volunteer force, a gap is
developing between the military and the nation it
is charged to defend. Formerly, those drafted to
serve, while not finding the military totally to their
liking, became, nonetheless, familiar with it and
took that knowledge with them as they returned
to civilian life and different pursuits. This
familiarity with things military enabled the public
to make reasoned judgments based on first-hand
knowledge of defense issues that the current unin-
formed electorate is incapable of making.

The one paragraph of Mr. Kramer’s article
devoted to his military experience reinforces the
military stereotypes and widens a dangerous gulf
of misinformation which separates soldiers from
the republic they are charged to defend. First,
regardless of source of commission, officers share
no common “‘military mind.’’ While some are self-
serving, Others honestly seek first to serve the
domestic and foreign interests of the nation.
Secondly, soldiers respond to the leadership they
are given. As an officer, I have been mistaken on
occasion for both an OCS and West Point
graduate. I very quickly and proudly correct that
notion by saying I received my commission
through ROTC at Washington and Lee.

The current strength of the military science pro-
gram at W&L and the number of her graduates
serving world-wide as officers attests not only to
the virtues of the program, but also to the pluralist
nature of the environment from which our nation’s
officers are called to serve.

Finally, if I were to cite the important lessons
I gained from my liberal arts education at W&L,
the absolute necessity of integrity in every endeavor
would be followed closely by the necessity of rigor
in pursuit of goals and objectives. The training
manual which Mr. Kramer casts aside provides the
soldier with general guidelines for action. He then
applies these guides to a specific situation where
the individual strengths and weaknesses of his com-

mand can be employed to produce the desired
results, often exceeding the standard prescribed in
the training manual.

The multi-talented leader knows this almost in-
tuitively. It takes those of us with fewer talents
longer to realize that the ‘‘book’’ is based on ex-
perience which has proven effective. It is apparent
to me that Mr. Kramer did not learn that the Ar-
my, like society, is composed of individuals with
different talents, strengths, and value systems. Not
all of those serving in the military are as convinc-
ed as we sons of W&L of the virtues of honesty
nor the wisdom of revealing hidden motives.

J. WALTER SHUGART III, ’61
Colonel, U.S. Army
Midlothian, Va.

EDITOR:

I read with keen interest your article, ‘“The Lee
Chapel Wars,”’ in the January/February issue of
the Alumni Magazine. Professor Pamela Hemen-
way Simpson describes very clearly the problems
and dilemmas of those days.

However, some factors which largely influenc-
ed the University’s actions have not, it seems to
me, received the emphasis which they merit, both
in the ensuing controversy and in the accounts of
it which have followed. These were 1) the urgent
need of the University for an appropriate chapel
or assembly hall large enough to accommodate the
entire University community, plus families and the
public, on occasions of University significance, and
2) the importance of retaining in any such struc-
ture the Lee mausoleum and recumbent statue.

For many years these needs had been keenly
felt by my father, President Henry Louis Smith.
There were many occasions of University
significance in which the original chapel could not
accommodate all those who would have liked to
attend and should legitimately have been able to
attend. It was equally important to him and to the
Trustees that the mausoleum and recumbent
statue, those symbols of University tradition,
spirit, and beauty, should remain an integral part
of any such structure, a present and continuing
Lee influence through all of a student’s years at
Washington and Lee.

It was these overriding needs of an expanding
student body and University that led the ad-
ministration and Board of Trustees to consider
restructuring and enlarging the chapel itself. At
the same time, President Smith and the Trustees
were mindful of a building that would be worthy
of its purpose in honoring Lee.

It was natural to turn for support to the United
Daughters of the Confederacy, an organization
that had demonstrated its interest in and loyalty
to the University because of the Lee association
and tradition. And it was natural in the Universi-
ty’s appeal that further honor to Lee should be
stressed.

These aspects of administration and Board
responsibility and action at a time of expanding
University growth and service seem often to be
swallowed up in the details of the controversy itself
which followed. They merit greater recognition for
a complete history.

Thank you again for your article.

JULIA Dupuy SMITH
High Point, N.C.

Get In The Picture!

Your
Reunion
This
Spring!

 

Class Reunions will be held on May 8, 9, and 10 for the Academic and
Law Classes of 1936, 1941, 1946, 1951, 1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1976,
and 1981.

featuring

Keynote Address by Walt Michaels, ’51

The Reunion Ball

Annual Meeting of the Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.
Annual Meeting of the Law School Association

Class Banquets
And More!

Remember how beautiful Lexington was in the springtime? It still is. Join us this
May and see for yourself.

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

i srown

Library

 

Shakespeare’s Othello and The Merchant of Venice in performance, and Mozart’s symphonies, concertos,
operas, and chamber music. A friendly introduction.

With George Ray and Gordon Spice.

Dante, Leonardo, Michelangelo, Machiavelli, Raphael, and the Medicis—the art, politics, and literature of °
Italy’s golden age. Tour will follow in 1987.
With Gerard Maurice Doyon, William Jenks, and Mario Pellicciaro.

Fourteen days touring the spectacular Galapagos Islands and the exotic high Andes culture of Ecuador.
With Cleveland Hickman and David Parker.

For further information, contact:

Robert Fure, Director

Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

