Sees

 

 

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 56, Number 2, March 1981

William C. Washburn, °40 ................ cc cece cece eee e eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ................ cece cece eee e ee eee Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, 80 ............. cece cece eee eee Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter 00.0.0... ccc cece ence eee ees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ..............c cece ee ee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Moyers on News Conferences ..............:eeeee secre ees 1
Presidential News Conferences:

Problems and Promises .................0ceeeeeeeeeees 2
Fancy Dress: On Broadway .............:.:eeeeeeeeeeeeees 5
Admissions/Placement .................0sceeceeeeeeeeeeees 8
ODK Convocation ..............ceece essence e eee eeeeeeenes 10
WL Gazette .......cccccccccecee cece cence eeee sense eenanees 12
Two Summer Programs ................:ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 17
Winter Sports .............c cece cece eee eeeee eee eneneneeees 18
Chapter NeWS ............0cccceceeeeeeneeeeeeeneneeeenen ens 20
Class Notes ............cccccccceecceeceeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeenes 23
In Memoriam ..............ccccce cece eens eee eeeeneeeeeneees 31
Chapter Presidents ................:ccceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 32

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD BaIn, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMEs F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

Ow EN H. HarRPER, 759, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RUSSELL LaDD, 757, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTuRE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
Joun H. McCorMack JR., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., 56, Crossett, Ark.

Cs

ON THE COVER: The newsmen become news. Par-
ticipants in a two-day panel discussion at W&L on the
topic ‘‘The Presidential News Conference: Problems and
Promises’’ watch President Reagan’s March 6 news con-
ference shortly before the first session. As they watch,
they were videotaped by a news crew from a Roanoke
TV station. And as they were videotaped, they were
photographed by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73. Story starts on
Page 1.

 

 

 

 

by Bill Moyers

‘Toward Rebuilding a Sense of Consensus’

Bill Moyers, moderator of the two-day
panel discussion on the topic, ‘‘The Presi-
dential News Conference: Problems and
Promises,’’ set forth the significance of the
program in the following introductory re-
marks at the second session.

When I gave the commencement address
at the University of Maine three years ago,
a young woman who had just graduated
said to me: ‘‘Mr. Moyers, you have been in
both government and journalism. That
makes everything you say doubly hard to
believe.’’

It is that skepticism about both govern-
ment and press that prompts the concern of
this affair which was provoked by [Wash-
ington and Lee University journalism pro-
fessor] Ham Smith and supported by his
colleagues in the Department of Journalism
here.

It is, and was, that crisis of legitimacy
that brought about the convening of the
Commission on Presidential Press Confer-
ences of which Ray Scherer and the former
Governor [Linwood Holton] who is with us

tonight . . . . were a part.
Good and decent men on both sides of
the fence . . . have tried to grapple from

their various perspectives with the crisis of
legitimacy and credibility in the country.

We are not... talking only about a
plumbing matter between the President and
the White House press corps. It is not simply
a question of techniques.

A disorder has hung over the White
House for the last 20 years, and it seems
reflected in manifestations far more sub-
stantial than the disarray of the press con-
ference.

Good things were said this afternoon
about the way Dwight Eisenhower con-
ducted his press conferences. It was not lost
on me that Eisenhower was the last Presi-
dent to leave the White House with a
measure of affection and success, the last
President to finish the constitutionally
allotted two terms to which a President is
eligible.

Kennedy, elected and assassinated,
Johnson, elected and disgraced; Nixon,
elected and discredited; Ford, appointed and

defeated; Carter, elected and defeated.

Bill Moyers

Five unsuccessful Presidents in a row.

It was not lost on me that the last Presi-
dent to leave the office with esteem and
affection is said, by members of this panel
and others I know, to have been the last
President to have successful press confer-
ences.

There is, I think, some relationship be-
tween the disorder that lies deep at the White
House and in our society and in the crisis of
communications of which the public press
conference is one revelation.

I do not mean to suggest that fixing up
the press conference will put Humpty
Dumpty together again and all will be well
with a republic that has been over the past
20 years embroiled in war and corruption at
the highest level, in inflation and war in the
Middle East, in [an] energy crisis, in a crisis
of its youth, in the crisis of drugs, and many
other of the crises that have plagued this
country in the last 20 years.

But I do think that one small victory for
coherence in an incoherent time would be a
step toward rebuilding the sense of con-
sensus that is missing in this country. And I
think, therefore, that the agenda that we are
discussing in these three sessions is far more

 

important than at first blush it might have
appeared to have been.

This is a subject that is discussed often
over bars, in the back of the bus, at social
engagements, and wherever men and
women of the press corps convene. But it is
a problem that goes to the heart of the whole
question of legitimacy and credibility of
democracy today.

It is an old and familiar problem. If any
of you have read the history of the first
administration of George Washington, you
know how many times he sounded like
Lyndon Johnson as he stormed around his
office, demanding of his aides to know what
in the world those scrounges in the press
meant when they were writing such terrible
things about him. It is not a recent problem.
And every administration experiences it.
Here is a story in the New York Times in
1969 about how Nixon is off to such a good
start in holding news conferences and what
a contrast his press conferences are to those
of Lyndon Johnson, which had been, in the
end, so dismal. Here, in the same paper
four years later, [a story] headlined,
‘*Presidential News Conferences Dying
Quietly Without Nixon’s Concern.”’

Here [in] the New York Times [of] Feb-
ruary, 1977, ‘‘Jimmy Carter has chosen the
best possible way to conduct press confer-
ences.’’ And here, a few years later, ‘‘After
two and a half years in the White House,
President Carter and his top aides seem to
have concluded that the Washington press
corps is more a hindrance than a help in
getting the president’s message across.”’
And another story in the New York Times
quoting Carter officials as saying the ad-
ministration has decided that the press is the
enemy—not the Russians, not inflation, not
the Arabs, not the belligerent populace, not
a disaffected middle class, not the per-
sistence of poverty, but the press.

And here, as usual and right on time in
the same newspaper, a headline, ‘‘Reagan
To Meet Press Informally Every Week, Off
To A Good Start.’’ And then a few days
later, ‘‘Reagan Reads the Riot Act to An
Unruly Press Corps.”’

There is something, I think, congenital
in this condition which we are discussing
here in these three sessions.

 

 

 

p

by Jeffery Hanna

‘MR. PRESIDENT?’

A Panel of Notable Newsmen Dissects the Presidential News Conference

At 2 p.m. on March 6 in the White House, Ronald
Reagan conducted the second nationally televised news
conference of his presidency.

At 3:30 that same afternoon in Lee Chapel, a panel
assembled for the first in a two-day series of discussions. The
topic? ‘‘The Presidential News Conference: Problems and
Promises. ”’

Great timing, right? Blind luck, actually.

It was pure happenstance that the panel’s opening session
started before the TV cameras had cooled off in the White
House. Of course, the coincidence was a happy one—mostly
happy, anyway.

Although President Reagan’s announcement Thursday
that he was calling a news conference for Friday did mean
one of the scheduled panelists (ABC News correspondent
Sam Donaldson) was in Washington rather than Lee Chapel
that afternoon, the topic could hardly have been more timely.

Not that timeliness mattered, really. Considering the
way the sessions went, considering the lively and informative
(not to mention thoroughly entertaining) exchanges between
panelists, the audience would undoubtedly have been
Captivated no matter what subject was under consideration.

It was little wonder, too, given the composition of the
panel, which included:

—Bill Moyers, press secretary to Lyndon B. Johnson and
editor-in-chief of ‘‘Bill Moyers’ Journal’’ on the Public
Broadcasting System, whose son Cope is a senior at
Washington and Lee;

—Ray Scherer, former NBC White House correspondent
and co-chairman of a commission which studied the
presidential news conference at the University of Virginia’s
White Burkett Miller Center for Public Affairs.

—Frank Cormier, Associated Press Washington
correspondent and the man who, for 10 years, traditionally
ended each presidential news conference with those familiar
words, ‘“Thank you, Mr. President’’;

—Bill Plante, the CBS News correspondent who was
recently assigned that network’s White House beat after
covering the Reagan campaign;

—Clark Mollenhoff, the Washington and Lee journalism
professor who made his presence known (and his booming
voice heard) at many a presidential news conference while he
served as Washington bureau chief for the Des Moines
Register and Tribune;

—Ron Nessen, press secretary to Gerald R. Ford and a
former Washington correspondent for NBC News.

It was an imposing group, a ‘‘high-powered’’ group as
one newspaper account put it. Here, after all, were six men
intimately familiar with presidential news conferences from
Truman to Reagan; six men who had distinguished

2

 

Ron Nessen, Gerald Ford's press secretary

themselves in their respective careers; but, best of all
perhaps, six men who took genuine pleasure in relating their
experiences and concerns with each other and to the
audience.

The idea for the conference belonged to Hampden H.
Smith, associate professor of journalism at W&L.

When Smith called Moyers to suggest such a symposium,
Moyers was admittedly skeptical. ‘‘I frankly wondered
whether the topic might not be too parochial to be of general
interest,’’ confessed Moyers, whose fears proved unfounded
judging from the way in which attendance increased at each
session.

During more than six hours of dissecting and scrutinizing
past and present news conferences, the panel agreed that the
news conference remains a vital instrument which has been
abused and misused by recent Presidents; that Reagan’s
experiments with the format have, for better or worse,
restored a measure of decorum to what had become chaotic
mob scenes; that the keys to an effective news conference are
frequency and regularity; that television has drastically altered
the nature of the news conference, again for better or worse;
and, that the news conference is well worth saving (and
improving) since it helps preserve the people’s right to know.

Early on, the panel identified what it considered the goals
of a news conference. The presence of two men—Moyers and
Nessen, who once served as press secretaries—provided
balance between the often opposing goals the press and the
President have for such events. Moyers, for instance, related

 

F rank Cormier. AP White Hous chief :

how President Johnson once summarized his feelings for the
news conference by saying: ‘“Those S.O.B.’s want me to
make news, I’m just going to do my best to keep from
making a mistake.”’

Aside from obvious goals (disseminating information,
giving newsmen access to the President), the panelists hit
upon a few areas which were less obvious.

Mollenhoff suggested that a President sometimes learns as
much from a news conference as newsmen do since a
reporter’s question may well *‘inform the President about
those activities the reporters know of within the
administration that the President may be unaware of.”’

Citing the isolation of the modern presidency, Plante
noted that a news conference ‘‘brings the most detached
(President) down to earth.’’ Added Plante: ‘‘We need some
vehicle in which impertinent questions can be asked, in which
the leader can be bearded... .”’

Nessen pointed to the news conference as a means of
intra-government communication, calling it ‘‘an opportunity
for the President to let people in his government know what
he is thinking.’”’

While Cormier said there is value in subjecting a
President to direct questioning, he also contended that recent
Presidents have usually used the opportunity to
propangandize. ‘‘Presidents say what they want to say,”’
Cormier insisted. ‘‘It doesn’t matter what you ask as long as
there are some key words which the President can respond
to

 

Bill Plante, CBS News

Much of the conversation centered on Reagan’s recent
experiments with the format. In his March 6 news
conference, for example, Reagan had selected reporters by
lottery, pulling names out of a jelly bean jar. Opinion was
divided on whether the tamer, more dignified format was an
improvement over the less dignified, but livelier, practice of
reporters leaping to their feet and shouting, ‘‘Mr. President!”’

Mollenhoff, who rarely had trouble getting a President’s
attention during the most chaotic conferences, argued that
‘the ultimate of decorum is in a dictatorship. I hope it does
not get to the point where the press conference is rigged.’’

Nessen also opposed the lottery, which was ironic since
he had instituted just such a system when Ford held news
conferences away from the White House and a prearranged
roster of questioners was required to allow local media an
opportunity to question the President along with the regular
White House press corps. Explained Nessen: “‘It is a matter
of liveliness versus a certain kind of stilted atmosphere.’’

The lottery system—‘‘Reagan Roulette,’’ as it was
quickly dubbed—was one of the recommendations made by
the Commission on Presidential Press Conferences. Scherer,
co-chairman of that commission, understandably favored
Reagan’s experiment, suggesting that ‘‘it put a certain order
to things.’’

The liveliest issue, by far, involved television’s impact.
Mollenhoff insisted that the presence of cameras (introduced
during Eisenhower’s presidency, but used for live
transmission under Kennedy) has inhibited newsmen, causing

3

 

PRESIDENTIAL NEWS CONFERENCE

Ray Scherer, NBC News

them to tone down questions so they will not be perceived as
verbally assaulting the country’s chief executive in living
rooms from coast-to-coast. Questions which might have been
asked without the world watching are no longer asked,
Mollenhoff argued.

Throughout the debate about TV, there was an
undercurrent of yearning for the good old days when
newsmen were ushered into the Oval Office where they could
sit around the desk and chat informally, almost intimately,
with the President. All that changed drastically when the
news conference became a half-hour TV show with the
President cast in a starring role and, according to some
panelists, speaking through reporters, rather than to them.

Plante was the chief defender of the electronic media.
Though he admitted the news conference has become a
‘‘spectacle,’’ he wondered whether that is television’s fault or
‘‘our problem of not wanting to be perceived as pains in the
neck on TV?’’ Added Plante, ‘‘Television intruded on an
existing arrangement that worked well. But the fact is, it has
been this way for 20 years. It is a fait accompli. Perhaps we
should consider how to live with the fact of TV rather than to
recover what is forever lost.”’

Too, Plante objected to those recommending that in
addition to monthly televised news conference the President
ought to hold informal sessions which cameras are not
allowed to record.

‘*We should be allowed to take the tools of our trade with
us. A camera is a tool of our trade,’’ argued Plante.

4

 

 

Clark-Mollenhoff, W&L journalism professor

‘You are a reporter,’’ countered Moyers. Is it necessary
to have that camera with you every time you see the
President?’

‘It is,’’ answered Plante, ‘‘a question of access.”’

What made the panels work was the chemistry of the
panelists. As much as anything the audience was entranced
by an atmosphere which Moyers quite aptly likened to
‘‘veterans sitting around the campfire discussing old war
tales.

Moyers had some of the best tales to tell of his days in the
Johnson White House when, he explained, ‘‘our credibility
got so bad, we couldn’t believe our own leaks.”’

There was a time during Moyers’ tenure when Johnson
required emergency gall bladder surgery. The plan was to
keep the surgery secret until shortly after 3 p.m. when the
stock market had closed. But an enterprising wire service
reporter got wind of the breaking story and confronted
Moyers with it 12 minutes before the tickers were to stop on
Wall Street. ‘‘I pulled out a cigar and started lighting it while
I casually strolled to my office door and locked it so the
reporter couldn’t leave until the stock market closed,’’ said
Moyers. ‘‘He started screaming at me to let him out. And I
kept lighting my cigar.”’

There were also occasions, according to Moyers, when he
would receive a telephone call from the President early on a
Saturday morning. ‘‘He’d ask me if there was anyone in the
press room,”’ said Moyers. ‘‘I’d say, ‘No, Mr. President.’
And he’d say, ‘Fine. Call a news conference.’ ”’

 

 

 

Imagine spending a night on Broadway
without ever leaving the Lexington city
limits.

Impossible?

Nothing, it seems, is impossible when it
comes to Washington and Lee’s annual
Fancy Dress Ball. As anyone who has ever
attended one of these gala bashes knows, the
sights and sounds of a Fancy Dress are
unmatched.

This year was no exception.

Picture a young man all spruced up in
black tie and white tennis shoes, gyrating to

a band calling itself Wedsel’s Edsels and
belting out the best (if, indeed, there really is
such a thing) of the Beach Boys.

Or if ‘‘Help Me Rhonda’’ is not exactly
your cup of tea, how about the pickin’ and
grinnin’ of Riders in the Sky, a country-
western trio whose stirring rendition of
‘‘Cool Water’’ would make Gene Autry’s
eyes glisten?

There was all that at Fancy Dress. And
more. Much, much more.

In short, there was a little something for
everyone at this latest edition of what was

 

 

Fancy

Dress
19S1

 

Photographs by
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73
and Tammy Teal

 

 

once considered (and most assuredly still is)
*‘the outstanding collegiate social event of
the South,’’ in the words of the New York
Times.

This year’s theme, ‘‘On Broadway,’’ was
carried out to the nth degree, from the yellow
brick road in The Wiz to the graffiti-filled
red brick walls of West Side Story.

Some of Broadway’s biggest hits became
themes within the theme.

For instance, the main ballroom, Evans
Hall, was magically transformed into a scene
straight out of Camelot. Okay, so maybe
Richard Burton didn’t make it. But there was

a King and his Queen, majestically portrayed
by James W. Whitehead, secretary of the
University, and his wife, Celeste, who could
hardly have looked more regal. There was
even a Merlin, courtesy of biology professor
Randy Emmons, whose costume (complete
with white rabbit) was all the rage.

Music in Camelot was provided by Peter
Duchin and his orchestra. Fancy Dress
veterans insisted there has rarely been a more
danceable dance, thanks partly to Mr.
Duchin but also partly to the fact that the
ballroom (at least in the early stages of the
evening) was a bit less crowded than in years

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

past—less crowded, in this case, meaning
not quite as congested as a medium-sized
cattle car.

From Camelot, dancers wound their way
through a maze of rooms, all decorated as
sets of other Broadway shows.

Riders in the Sky held forth in the
Oklahoma room where their sagebrush and
saddles looked perfectly at home.

Wedsel’s Edsels, their ducktails
gleaming, were be-bopping on the set of
Grease.

Down in the Showboat (which is Fairfax
Lounge during more mundane times), the

Dixieland Strutters strutted their stuff while
Roomful of Blues provided the sounds down
on the set of Hello, Dolly in the Cockpit.

For those ear-weary souls looking for a
change of pace and brave enough to wedge
their way down the hallway to the Cabaret,
magician Bill Clary spent the night cutting
young women in half.

The weekend actually began the night
before the Ball when folk singer John Prine
presented a concert. As usual, the parties
continued non-stop.

Clearly, Fancy Dress is not getting
older—only better.

 

 

ARET

 

 

W&L INs
AND OUTs

Admissions
Steady...

Applications for admission to
Washington and Lee this year have been at a
nearly identical pace with a year ago when
the University had its highest number of
applicants—1 ,413—-since 1966.

Moreover, this year’s applicants compare
favorably on a qualitative basis with last
year’s pool which represented one of the
strongest in recent years in terms of
Statistical measures of achievement and
personal records.

As of March 1, 1,340 candidates had
made application to the University. On the
same date a year ago, there had been 1,351
applications.

According to William M. Hartog,
director of admissions for W&L, the
eventual total will likely reach 1,400
applications. That would represent a decline
of less than one percent from a year ago but
would mark only the second time since 1973
that applications have reached or exceeded
1,400.

Hartog expects the University to offer
admission to 800 applicants.

 

As of March 1, 456 applicants already
had been offered admission, and 60 of those

 

...And
Placement
Is Even
Better

If the Class of 1980 is any indication,
W&L graduates are doing quite well in
today’s crowded job market and competitive
graduate and professional schools. Members
of the University’s most recent baccalaureate
class are—for the most part—doing what
they want to do, according to Michael A.
Cappeto, associate dean of students and
director of career development and
placement.

Cappeto bases this belief on the findings
of the Placement Office’s annual survey of
recent graduates. More than 83 percent of the
1980 graduates answered questions about
their graduate study or jobs as well as their
salary, career plans and orientation. The
survey, which was not undertaken until
October 1980, allowed graduates ample time
to conduct a job search or begin graduate
study.

While some graduates indicated they
were not admitted to the law, medical,
business, or graduate school of their first
choice, they were nevertheless accepted
somewhere, in most every case their second
or third choice. Likewise, most graduates
who began looking for jobs found them and
indicated they are satisfied with the work
they are doing.

Almost one-third, 30.2 percent, entered
graduate and professional school as full-time
students, slightly less than last year’s 35.7
percent. But, according to Cappeto, “‘these

Statistics should not be regarded as a valid
measure of the percentage of W&L alumni
who pursue graduate education, since there is
a growing trend for students to work a few
years prior to pursuing a graduate program.’’

For the fifth year in a row, more
undergraduates entered law school than any
other single type of graduate study—14
percent in all, a figure that has remained
fairly constant over the years. The University
of Virginia topped the list of law schools
with 1980 graduates in the first year class
(five), followed by W&L’s law school
(four). All told, graduates are enrolled in 23
different law schools, ranging from Duke to
Georgetown to Oklahoma to Rutgers.

The number of graduates entering other
graduate or professional programs, business
school, medical school, or graduate
programs, is down slightly from a year ago.

Nearly three percent entered M.B.A.
programs at nine schools, including New
York University, Tulane, and the University
of Texas. Nine medical schools, such as
Louisiana State, Virginia, and Vanderbilt,
were represented by 4.3 percent of the
graduates. And nearly nine percent of the
Class of 1980 entered graduate school
programs other than law, business, or
medicine. Graduates reported entering 18
graduate schools, including Cornell, Dallas
Theological Seminary, the Pratt Institute,
and Texas A&M, to earn degrees in nearly

 

 

had confirmed their intentions of enrolling
next fall. In qualitative terms, the 456
admitted had average Scholastic Aptitude
Test (SAT) scores of 566 on the verbal portion
and 616 in math. The 60 who confirmed have
average SAT scores of 573 verbal and 596
math and rank in the 84th percentile of their
high school classes.

This year’s admissions program has
involved some perceptible shifts from past
years, especially in terms of the geographic
areas from which applications are being
made.

‘“We have attracted more students this
year from what have not traditionally been
strong W&L areas,’’ says Hartog. ‘‘We
have, for instance, had a number of
applications from such places as
Albuquerque, Phoenix, and Tucson as well
as increases in applications from California. .

‘While we are receiving about the same
number of applications from cities where
W&L traditionally has drawn well, those
applications are now coming from different
schools in those cities.

‘‘Our expanded travel itinerary in
admissions plus the continuing growth of the
alumni admissions program are chiefly
responsible for the shifts.”’

During the current academic year, W&L
admissions officials have represented the
University in 34 different states and have
taken part in 50 to 60 “‘college nights’’ for
high school seniors.

In addition alumni have represented the
University at another 50 to 60 of those
college nights as part of the alumni
admissions program which is directed by
James D. Farrar.

‘*More and more, the role of alumni is
taking on greater meaning in admissions,”’
says Hartog. ‘‘Our goal is to increase the
alumni admissions program from the 56
cities where we now have programs to 80
cities in the next year.’”

Aside from the invaluable alumni
involvement, one of the most successful new
techniques the admissions office has
employed involves a direct mailing
campaign. The admissions office has, for the

past two years, obtained lists of the top high
school seniors from throughout the country
as identified by the College Board which
administers the SAT tests. The seniors on
those lists—10,000 a year ago and 20,000
this year—receive W&L admissions
literature designed specifically for a direct
mail campaign.

‘Nothing has been more effective than
the direct mailing,’’ says Hartog, supplying
figures which show that direct mailing last
year generated 108 applications which, in
turn, resulted in the enrollment of 38
freshmen who had average SAT scores of
608 verbal and 645 math. This year, 150
applications were generated through the
direct mailing campaign.

“More and more, this technique will
become a major part of what we do,”’ says
Hartog. ‘‘There is no question that we are
reaching more ears now than ever before.
But the one thing we continue to emphasize
in the admissions program is that ours
remains a qualitative search, not a
quantitative one.”’

 

20 different fields, such as geophysics,
mechanical engineering, psychology, interior
design, and architecture. Cappeto noted the
decline in recent years of graduates entering
humanities-related graduate programs.

The second half of Cappeto’s report dealt
with graduates who went to work
immediately after graduation. Nearly 60
percent of the graduating class obtained jobs
after graduation. This figure is slightly
higher than the five year average, 57.4
percent. Business, education and the military
were the most popular careers.

The report distinguished between a job
and a career—a career being the type of work
composed of one or more related jobs. The
report noted that ‘‘statistics show that during
his working life, the typical college graduate
will have three different careers composed of
twelve different jobs. Also, today’s college
graduate is expected to keep his first job for
about two years. Therefore, it is important to
keep in mind that the results of this study
show the types of jobs and (maybe) the first
careers entered by the recent graduates.
Results are not predictions of future careers
of the Class of 1980.”’

Slightly more than half of the graduates who
did not enter graduate or professional school
received job offers on or before graduation
day. About 10 percent received jobs in each
of the five months following graduation so
that by late October (when the survey was

 

made) only 7.6 percent of the class remained
unemployed. All but six unemployed
graduates indicated they had just recently
started their job search or were not seeking
work. Cappeto concluded that
*‘unemployment affects only an insignificant
number of recent W&L graduates.”’

In terms of employment quality or
underemployment (the underutilization of
skills, education and human resources which
is a serious problem in labor markets today)
graduates again fared well. Although 15.7
percent of job holders believed they were
underemployed, only 8.7 percent saw no
future in what they were doing.

To measure the job satisfaction of recent
graduates, questions were asked about job
challenge, long range career goals, salary,
geographic location, and type of work. In
general, the Class of 1980 seemed satisfied

with their jobs.

More than 85 percent found their jobs
challenging while 67.3 percent indicated that
their job was consistent with their long range
career goals. Most (67.9 percent) said they
were satisfied with their salary and even
more (85.6 percent) with the geographic
location of their job. The median annual
salary range for graduates was $12,000 to
$12,999—up $1,000 from 1979. When
asked °whether or not they were satisfied with
the type of work they were doing, 84.9
percent indicated that they were.

 

ODK CONVOCATION

Four Alumni Honored; President Huntley Discusses the Concept of Leadership

Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
leadership fraternity founded at Washington
and Lee in 1914, honored four prominent
alumni at the University’s Founders’ Day-
ODK Convocation on Jan. 19. The occasion
marked the 174th birthday of Robert E. Lee.
President Robert E. R. Huntley, the principal
speaker, discussed the concept of leadership
and its future in America.

The four alumni inducted as honorary
members were Earl T. Jones, a retired meat
packing company executive; Joseph L.
Lanier, retired chairman of West Point
Pepperell, Inc., (who was inducted in
absentia); Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan Jr.,
surgeon-in-charge at the New York Hospital-
Cornell Medical Center; and Harry W.
Wellford, U.S. District Court Judge for the
Western District of Tennessee.

Nineteen students—15 undergraduates
and four law students—were also inducted
into ODK, which now has chapters at more
than 160 colleges throughout the country.

A highlight of the convocation was the
announcement that W&L’s ODK chapter has
established the Rupert N. Latture
Outstanding Sophomore Award to be given
annually to the W&L sophomore who best
exemplifies the ideals of ODK. Rupert
Latture, professor of political science
emeritus and now special assistant to the
president, is the sole surviving founder of
ODK. He celebrated his 89th birthday on the
day before the ceremony.

Jones is a member of W&L’s class of
1930. He is the former president of the Jessie
Jones Sausage Company of Raleigh, N.C.,
now part of General Mills, Inc., a veteran of
the U.S. Navy, and a trustee of Peace
College. Jones was class agent for W&L’s
class of 1930 from 1974 to 1980 and became
one of the most successful fund-raisers in the
University’s history. In 1980, Jones raised
almost $54,000 for the University’s Annual
Fund with donations from 92 percent of the
members of his class.

Lanier received his B.S. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1927. He is retired
chairman of the board of West Point
Pepperell, Inc., of West Point, Ga.—one of
the nation’s largest textile manufacturers. He
has been a director of West Point
Manufacturing Company, Dixie Cotton
Mills, and the First National Bank, and a

10

F. lax, "SIL, president of ODK, announces :
Rupert Latture Award.

trustee of the Girls Training School. Lanier
was a member of W&L’s Board of Trustees
from 1953 to 1975.

Vaughan graduated from Washington and
Lee in 1961 and received his medical degree
from the University of Virginia. A former
member of the faculty of the University of
Virginia, he is surgeon-in-charge and James
J. Colt Professor and chairman of the
urology department at the New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He is also
a member of the Scientific Advisory Board
and the National Kidney Foundation. In July
1980, New York magazine named Vaughan

 

one of the ‘‘Best Doctors in New York.”’

Wellford, a 1946 graduate of W&L with
a law degree from Vanderbilt University, is
U.S. District Judge for Western Tennessee.
He has been a director of the Memphis
Community Council, chairman of the Shelby
County Republican Party, and a member of
the committee to draft a new charter for the
city of Memphis.

President Huntley’s remarks on
leadership came on the day before Ronald
Reagan was sworn in as the 40th President of
the United States and also one day before the
release of 52 Americans being held hostage
in Iran. He began by pointing out how
difficult the concept of leadership is to deal
with, saying that it is similar to the concept
of sincerity. “‘Both qualities,’’ he said, ‘‘are
frequently praised in the abstract—but in
reality may be found most distasteful.’’

Echoing characteristics often cited when
talking of leadership, Huntley spoke of how
important commitment is to what one
believes to be true, but also identifying the
problems in being committed to one’s beliefs
which become self-evident, as well as
determining what constitutes commitment.

One way out of this dilemma, according
to Huntley, is to find another person whom
one greatly admires or is attached to and
become committed to follow that person and
his or her beliefs, no matter that he or she
may not be in a formal position of leadership
in society. This type of person, the
charismatic leader, is perceived as having a
special talent or grace, but this poses
problems for a democracy, for “‘if a
democracy will work only when it can
produce charismatic leaders then it is fatally
flawed.’’

He touched on another aspect of
leadership—authority—when he said that
‘“sometimes we actually want to be the
victims of circumstance or the minions of
authority.’’ But this may not apply, for
‘‘always straining for recognition within each
of us is that deeply rooted knowledge of our
humanity, of our personal individuality and
responsibility.’’ Huntley pointed out that we
know we were not placed on earth to
‘‘shuffle aimlessly down some predetermined
path, even if the path be strewn with rose
petals.”’

The American experiment, to build a

 

Earl T. Jones, ’30

Dr. E _ Darracott Vaughan Jr., 61 os

governmental structure on the premise that
the principal sovereign is the individual, also
presents problems, for the people may grow
weary of the burden of self-rule. Huntley
said that “‘such weariness might show itself
in a general attitude of the people to
conclude that anything which is not
forbidden by the state is approved. Such an

 

 

Harry W. Wellford, ’46

 

Joseph L Lanier, ‘27

attitude, quite obviously, soon puts the state
in the position of the sole repository of the
values by which individuals and groups in
society are to mold their beings . . . As the
common personal and moral values we once
shared are dissipated, as the problems of a
modern overcrowded society press in around
us, we are increasingly likely to yield to that

 

ancient tendency to give up a personal
sovereignty which we no longer know how
to exercise.’’ And, Huntley said, ‘‘there will
always be, as there have always been, those
among us who will urge that such a course is
precisely the right one, even the noble one,
for us to take.’’

Huntley pointed out that our founding
fathers based our nation on a concept of
leadership which is defined in terms of
service to others, a truly revolutionary
experiment in politics.

Telling his audience that we are all
privileged persons, in that we have a large
measure of control over our destinies, with
better opportunities and a better
understanding of the world around us,
Huntley said that we are all quite capable of
becoming leaders, with or without charisma.
"It requires courage to seek and to accept
leadership of that rare but essential variety
which increases the opportunities for others
to achieve and to exercise effective personal
sovereignity over their lives and destinies. It
requires courage to be the kind of leader who
seeks not to control but to serve, the kind of
leader who measures his effectiveness, not
by the patina of his image or the acclaim for
his achievements, but rather by the extent to
which his leadership has enabled others to be
effective and valuable persons. ”’

Student initiates included four third-year
law students: Philip D. Calderone of
Merrick, N.Y.; W. Jeffery Edwards of King
George, Va.; Steven M. Johnson of
Nashville, Tenn., and David G. Weaver of
Elmira, N.Y.

From the undergraduate senior class:
Marshall A. Clark of Memphis, Tenn.; Jay
A. Diesing of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.;
Channing M. Hall III of Williamsburg, Va.;
David B. Irvin of Roanoke, Va.; Edward A.
Johnson of Huntsville, Ala.; A. William
Mackie of Chevy Chase, Md.; D. Bruce
Poole of Hagerstown, Md.; John P. Purcell
of Rockville, Md.; Joseph Robles of
Vincentown, N.J., and James K. Vines of
Alexandria, Va.

The five inductees from the junior class
were: Michael P. Bernot of Hampton, Va.;
Frank W. Brower III of Doylestown, Pa.; W.
Scott Dacus of Greenville, S.C.; Eric T.
Myers of Doswell, Va., and Nelson E. Ould
of Richmond, Va.

11

GAZETTE

New Trustee; Challenge Fund Steering Committee; Musical Groups on Tour

 

Harte is elected
to Board of Trustees

Houston H. Harte, chairman of the board
of Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc., of
San Antonio, Texas, has been elected to the
University’s Board of Trustees. Harte will
officially begin his six-year term at the
Board’s May meeting in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

A native of San Angelo, Texas, Harte
received the bachelor of arts degree from
Washington and Lee in 1950. After working
at the Snyder (Texas) Daily News, where he
was editor from 1952 to 1954, Harte joined
the promotion department of the Des Moines
(lowa) Register and Tribune in 1954. From
Des Moines, Harte moved back to his native
Texas in 1956, when he became president of
the San Angelo Standard-Times.

In 1962, Harte went to San Antonio with

12

 

Houston H. Harte, Harte-Hanks Communications chairman, new Trustee

the purchase by Harte-Hanks of the San
Antonio Express and News and San
Antonio’s KENS-TV. Harte served as vice
president and later president of the Express
Publishing Company before assuming his
current position in 1971.

Harte-Hanks Communications publishes
29 daily and 68 nondaily publications. The
company also owns and operates four
network-affiliated television stations, five
AM and six FM radio stations, and four
cable television systems.

Harte-Hanks’ 29 dailies have a combined
circulation of 579,000 and are published in
nine states. The four television stations
operated by the Harte-Hanks Television
Group are located in Jacksonville, Fla.,
Springfield, Mo., Greensboro, N.C., and
San Antonio.

Harte is a regent of East Texas State
University, a trustee of Stillman College, and

a member of the development board of the
University of Texas at San Antonio.

In addition, Harte is a member of the
boards of the Frost National Bank, the
Evergreen Capital Corporation, the
McDonald Observatory Development
Council, and the Texas Presbyterian
Foundation.

Harte and his wife, the former Carolyn
Esther Hardig, have three children—Houston
Ritchie Harte of Denver, David Harriman
Harte of Davis, W.Va., and Sarah Harte
Richardson of Austin, Tex.

 

Freshman survey shows
law is still top choice

Law continues to be the leading career
choice of W&L’s freshmen, according to an
independent survey taken last fall of entering
students at W&L and 354 other colleges and
universities throughout the nation.

Asked to indicate their ‘‘probable career
occupation,’’ 29.9 percent of the W&L
freshmen selected the ‘‘lawyer (attorney) or
judge’’ category on the questionnaire. That
compares with the 4.1 percent figure for all
freshmen at the colleges taking part in the
survey.

The figure for the Class of ’84 was up
slightly over a year ago when 25 percent of
W&L’s Class of ’83 said they intend to enter
law.

The second leading choice of this year’s
freshmen was ‘‘business executive’’ which
was the choice of 17.9 percent (as compared
with 10.1 percent on a national basis).

Next came ‘‘physician’’ with 13.6
percent of the W&L freshmen planning to
pursue that career (contrasted with 3.5
percent nationally).

Following those three categories were
‘‘writer or journalist’? which received 4.9
percent and “‘engineer’’ at 3.7 percent.

The survey was directed by the Graduate
School of Education at U.C.L.A. on behalf
of the American Council on Education
(ACE).

As usual, a vast majority—88.1 percent,
to be specific—of the W&L freshmen
surveyed indicated that the University’s
‘*good academic reputation’’ was a ‘‘very
important’ reason in the decision to enroll at

the school. In the national survey, 50.8
percent of the respondents checked ‘‘good
academic reputation’’ as a very important
reason for their enrolling.

Also as usual, the W&L freshmen
characterized themselves as politically
conservative to a greater extent than their
peers around the country. At W&L, 42
percent indicated their political orientation is
conservative; nationally, 17 percent chose
conservative as their political orientation.

As for their expectations of the next four
years, 63.7 percent of W&L’s freshmen
estimated the chances were ‘‘very good’’ that
they would join a social fraternity; 47 percent
felt they would maintain at least a B average;
67.7 percent expected to be satisfied with
college; and, 17.2 percent anticipated a
change in their career choice.

 

 

Henneman to become
assistant law dean

Edward O. Henneman, assistant
professor of law at the University, will
become assistant dean of the School of Law
on August 1. The announcement was made
by Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the School
of Law.

Henneman succeeds William Mc.
Schildt, who is leaving to enter private
practice in Hagerstown, Md.

Born in New York City, Henneman is an
honors graduate of Yale University and
received his law degree from Harvard in
1962. He was associated with two New York
law firms as a specialist in trust and estate
law before coming to Washington and Lee in
1972 as associate director of development
and director of deferred giving programs.

Henneman became assistant professor of
law in 1978. He presently teaches courses in
trust and estate and family law.

Schildt leaves W&L after four years as
assistant dean. He received his B.A. degree
with highest honors from Washington and
Lee in 1964 and graduated from the
University’s School of Law in 1968.

From 1968 to 1972, Schildt was assistant
(and later associate) dean of students and
assistant admissions director for the College.
In 1970, he was given additional duties as
coordinator of the freshman year, then a new
position at the University. He also taught
law, commerce, and administration during
that time.

He joined the law firm of Miles and
Stockbridge of Baltimore, Md., in 1972 and
was later assistant United States attorney for
the district of Maryland.

 

Edward O. Henneman, new assistant law dean

As assistant law dean, Henneman will
work in general administration and will have
primary responsibility for law admissions.
The assistant dean post was created in 1977.

 

 

 

International Moot Court
team reaches finals

Washington and Lee’s International Moot
Court Team won a regional round of
competition at the University of Pittsburgh in
February and thereby advanced to the
national finals later this spring.

The W&L law school representatives—
Samuel N. Allen III of Middletown, Conn.;
Guy Arcidiacono of Douglaston, N.Y.;
William D. Johnston of Bedford, Va.; Craig
K. Morris of Camp Hill, Pa.; and, Steven J.
Talevi of Oneonta, N. Y.—defeated teams
representing nine other law schools in the
East Central Region.

In addition, Arcidiacono was named the
region’s best oralist during the competition.

Alan Button, a third-year law student
from Peekskill, N.Y., is student coach for
the W&L team; Samuel W. Calhoun,
assistant professor of law, is faculty advisor.

Mudd, Washington correspondent for NBC
News; Dr. James H. Sammons of Chicago,
chief executive officer of the American
Medical Association; A. Linwood Holton Jr.
of Washington, former Governor of Virginia
and vice president and general counsel of the
American Council on Life Insurance; John F.
Kay Jr. of Richmond, president-elect of the
Virginia Bar Association; Matthew W.
Paxton of Lexington, president and editor of
the Lexington News-Gazette, and Dr. A.
McGehee Harvey of Baltimore, professor of
medicine emeritus at Johns Hopkins Medical
School.

The NEH Challenge Grant, which
requires a match of $3 in private funding for
each $1 in federal monies, will be used to
help create a permanent endowment for
W&L’s ‘‘Society and the Professions:
Studies in Applied Ethics.”’

 

 

 

Millhiser talk draws
overflow audience

Ross R. Millhiser, vice chairman of the
board of Philip Morris Inc. and a member of
the University’s Board of Trustees, was a
featured speaker in the School of Commerce,

 

 

 

Steering group heads
Challenge fund campaign

A six-member steering committee has
been established to spearhead the fund-
raising campaign associated with the
$200,000 Challenge Grant which was
awarded the University’s applied ethics
program by the National Endowment for the
Humanities.

The committee is composed of Roger

Wa&L runners
turn firemen

Who were those masked men?

‘“Twas late on a cold, crisp winter
afternoon when eight members of
Washington and Lee’s track team were
running along a country road just outside
Lexington and happened upon a brush
fire a few yards off the road.

Without so much as breaking stride,
the Generals dashed into the fire and
proceeded to battle the blaze, putting
their new running shoes and warmups
on the line in the process.

Before long, the fire was extinguish-
ed, and our heroes regrouped and trotted
off as the local fire department arrived
on the scene.

Explained one of the eight: ‘‘We
collected ourselves and headed into the
sunset, just like the Lone Ranger after a
day’s work.”’

Well, not exactly like the Lone
Ranger. The Generals wound up back in
track coach Norris Aldridge’s office,
asking for new warmups to replace the
sooty ones.

 

 

 

13

Le GAZETTE

 

Administration Professor John DeVogt and Commerce Fraternity President David Irvin, ’81, talk with
Philip Morris Vice Chairman and W&L Trustee Ross R. Millhiser before his presentation.

House of Representatives from Virginia’s 7th
District.

Commenting editorially on Marsh’s
nomination, the Richmond Times-Dispatch
said: “‘It is unlikely that President Reagan
could have found anyone more suitable to
serve as his secretary of the Army... .”’

Brock, 50, a former Congressman and
Senator from Tennessee, had been serving as
Republican National Chairman and was
credited with unexpected Republican gains in
both the House and Senate last November.

Economics and Politics in January. .

Millhiser, whose visit to the campus was
sponsored by the Commerce Honorary |
Fraternity, gave an overview of Philip Morris
and also related the strategies the company
has used in turning one of its subsidiaries,
Miller Brewing Co., into the country’s
second largest brewery.

Millhiser’s presentation, which included
films illustrating the successful Miller
advertising campaigns, drew an overflow
crowd to one of McCormick’s new lecture
halls.

 

 

Reagan names Brock,
Marsh to high posts

Two Washington and Lee alumni have
been named to positions in the administration
of President Ronald Reagan.

John O. Marsh, a 1954 graduate of the
School of Law, was sworn in as secretary of
the Army in February, and William E. Brock
Ill, a 1953 graduate of W&L, was named to
the Cabinet-level position of U.S. trade
representative.

Marsh, 54, had served as leader of
President Reagan’s national security group
during the presidential campaign and was
also legal adviser to the president’s defense
transition team.

Formerly a Cabinet-level aide to
President Gerald R. Ford, Marsh served four
terms (1962 to 1970) as a member of the

14

 

Bill Brock, ’53, special trade representative

 

He replaces former Florida Gov. Reubin
Askew as special trade representative, an
office created in 1963 to set trade policy.

 

 

Riegel is honored
by Washington alumni

O. W. (Tom) Riegel, professor of
journalism and communications from 1930
until his retirement in 1973, was honored on
Jan. 18 in Washington, D.C., by some of his
former students. Following a meeting of the
board of trustees of the Science Service, of
which Riegel is a member, Riegel’s sons
Kurt and Quentin invited him to be their
guest at Man in the Green Hat, a Capitol Hill
restaurant. He arrived to discover more than
a dozen enthusiastic W&L alumni with their
wives and guests.

Among the group were Brent Breedin,
"47, °49L; Earle Palmer Brown, ’44; John
W. Davies, ’36; George E. Eagle, ’52;
Maurice R. Fliess, ’66; Stephen D.
Hagedorn, ’73; Charles R. McDowell Jr.,
’48; Donald R. Moore, ’37; Paul R. Plawin,
60; Jay H. Reid Jr., ’38; Philip Robbins,
°52, and Douglas Trussell, representing his
brother, Tait Trussell, ’49.

 

 

In the arts

@ A collection of drawings, prints,
etchings, and sculpture by Washington and
Lee alumnus Drayton Smith was displayed at
the University’s duPont Gallery in February.

 

John Marsh, ’54L, secretary of the Army

Smith is a 1974 W&L graduate whose works
were previously exhibited in galleries in
Paris and in Charleston, S.C. Many of the
works in Smith’s duPont exhibition were
produced during the artist’s year of study in
Paris in 1980.

@ An exhibition of paintings and prints
from the collection of W&L chemistry
professor Keith Shillington was presented in
duPont Gallery in late February and early
March. Among the works from Shillington’s
collection included in the exhibition were a
group of lithographs by Rockwell Kent and
several paintings by Ray Prohaska, former
artist-in-residence at W&L. The exhibition
was the first in what is planned as a series of
annual shows based on works from local and
area art collectors.

@ Tenor Stafford Wing performed music |

by Handel, Faure, Turina, Schubert, and Ives
during a February concert in Lee Chapel as
part of Washington and Lee University’s
Concert Guild series. Wing, who is chairman
of voice instruction at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is a frequent
guest soloist with orchestras and oratorio
societies in Europe and the United States.

 

 

Asian Studies meeting
draws large attendance

The Southeast Conference of the Associa-
tion for Asian Studies held its annual meeting
on the University’s campus in January,
attracting more than 100 participants from 16
states and five countries.

The Association for Asian Studies is the
major scholarly organization for specialists
on Asia. It publishes three separate journals
on Asian studies. The Southeast Conference
is one of eight regional organizations.

Co-sponsored by W&L and Virginia
Military Institute, participants included
professors from universities and colleges
throughout the Southeast as well as
representatives from government, private
business, and foreign embassies.

Some of the topics discussed at the
conference included ‘‘The Place and Role of
Asian Women,”’ ‘‘Chinese Ideology and
Modernization,’’ and ‘‘Politics and
Economics in Southeast Asian States.”’

Roger Jeans, associate professor of
history at W&L, served with VMI professor
Patrick Mayerchak as local arrangements
chairmen.

Minor L. Rogers, associate professor of
religion at W&L, and James T. Yashiro,
Howerton Scholar-in-Residence at W&L,

participated in panel discussions during the
three-day conference.

Keynote speaker for the event was
Eleanor H. Jordan of Cornell University,
president of the Association for Asian
Studies.

 

 

W&L superdancers raise
$21,189 for MD research

Their feet ached. Their legs wobbled.
Their eyelids sagged. And their ears were
ringing from the music.

But when the participants in Washington
and Lee’s third annual dance marathon
finally stopped dancing at 2 o’clock on a
Sunday morning, they had raised $21,189
toward muscular dystrophy research.

More than 140 dancers participated in the
30-hour marathon, dubbed ‘*Superdance
°81.’’ For the third year in a row, the event
exceeded its stated goal which had been set
this year at $20,000.

Six bands, ranging from golden oldies
music of the ’50s to disco, kept spirits alive
and feet moving (if only barely toward the
end).

Special events also helped keep everyone
awake, if not exactly alert. W&L’s fencing
team gave an exhibition, the Muscular
Dystrophy Association showed a film, and
there was even a version of *‘The Price Is
Right.”’ :

But once again the most popular of those
auxiliary events was the pie-throw in which
W&L professors and administrators offered
themselves up as targets for cream pie
thrown by the highest bidder. This year’s
targets included James W. Worth, W&L’s
counseling psychologist; journalism
professor Hampden H. Smith; Dan Murphy,
assistant dean of students for fraternity
affairs; and, Edward C. Atwood, dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

Atwood established a new pie-throw
record when one of his former students bid
$115 for the honor of tossing a pie at the
dean.

Co-chairmen of ‘‘Superdance’’ were
James B. Hemby and Frank W. Brower.
Junior William W. Bourne received the most
pledges, $1,156.

 

 

W&L musical groups
go on holiday tours

Two of Washington and Lee’s student
musical groups—the Glee Club and the Brass
and Percussion Ensemble—went on tour
during the University’s Washington Holiday
in February.

The Glee Club began its tour by
performing for the University’s Board of
Trustees, which was holding its annual
winter meeting in Baltimore. The 30-member

 

““Superdance ’81’’ participants exceeded their goal for the third consecutive year, raising more than
$20,000 for Muscular Dystrophy research.

15

Le GAZETTE

 

 

 

Brass and Percussion Ensemble perform at Orlando’s Science and Space Transit Planetarium . . .

. . While the Glee Club opened its tour at the Trustees meeting and alumni gathering in Baltimore.

group directed by Gordon P. Spice, associate
professor of music, also presented a concert
with the Goucher College Chorus while in
Baltimore.

Other Glee Club concerts were presented
at the National Cathedral in Washington,
D.C.; the Pennsylvania Trinity Lutheran
Church in Holland, Pa.; St. James Lutheran
Church in Phillipsburg, N.J.; Georgian Court
College in Lakewood, N.Y.; the
Congregational Church of Patchoque, N.Y.;
and, Trinity Church and St. Patrick’s
Cathedral in New York City.

The 17-member Brass and Percussion
Ensemble, directed by Robert Stewart,
professor of music, went to Florida for its
tour.

The group began with a performance at
Orlando’s Walt Disney World and later
performed at the Science and Space Transit
Planetarium and the Bass Museum of Art,
both in Miami. While in the Miami area, the
Brass and Percussion Ensemble presented a
concert for inmates at the Federal
Correctional Institution, where they were
well received. Becky Cross, daughter of J.

16

Alan Cross Jr., °51, the prison’s music
director, made the arrangements. One
member of the Ensemble was overheard to
say that the Institution was ‘‘a nice place to
visit, but I wouldn’t want to live there!’’

 

 

Faculty activities

@ Robert J. de Maria, assistant professor
of journalism, participated in an industry
education workshop sponsored by the
International Radio and Television Society
and held in New York City in February.

@ President Robert E. R. Huntley has
been elected to the board of trustees of Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

@ Clark R. Mollenhoff, professor of
journalism, is the author of a textbook on
investigative reporting. Published by
Macmillan Publishing Company of New
York, the book is titled Investigative
Reporting—F rom Courthouse to White
House.

@ G. Francis Drake, professor of
romance languages, has been appointed to

one of the committees which will select
Virginia Cultural Laureates for 1981.
Professor Drake is a member of the Peer
Group Selection Committee in the language
category.

@ John McDaniel, associate professor of
anthropology, was chairman of a panel
discussion on historic archaeology held at
James Madison University. Included on the
panel, which was part of a three-day
Symposium, was W&L alumnus Parker
Potter, a former Liberty Hall Research
Scholar. Lawrence Babits, assistant professor
of sociology and anthropology, presented a
paper at the symposium.

@ R.H. MacDonald, professor of
journalism, has compiled a bibliography,
**Print-Broadcast First Amendment Parity,”’
which was published under grants from the
National Association of Broadcasters and the
Radio-Television News Directors
Association.

@ Lawrence Babits, instructor in sociol-
ogy and anthropology, gave a lecture,
‘‘Observations on the Life of the Civil War
Private Soldier,’’ at V.M.I.’s Marshall
Library.

 

 

Recent speakers

Speakers and lecturers who have visited
campus in recent weeks include:

@ Award-winning novelist John Barth,
author of Chimera and Letters, read from his
works in Lee Chapel under sponsorship of
Contact.

@ Martin D. Drury, surveyor of historic
buildings for the English National Trust,
lectured on ‘Petworth and its Collections’’
under the joint sponsorship of W&L’s
Lectures Committee and the departments of
English and fine arts.

@ Ronald M. Green, professor of
religion at Dartmouth College, spoke on
‘‘The Sacrifice of Isaac in Jewish Tradition:
A Rationalist Reappraisal,’’ under
sponsorship of the Philip F. Howerton
Memorial Fund.

@ The Rev. Dr. Emmett C. Burns,
regional director of the NAACP, presented a
speech entitled ‘‘If Dr. King Were Here—
What?’’ in Lee Chapel under joint
sponsorship of the W&L Student Association
for Black Unity and the Office of Minority
Affairs.

@ Sam Hileman, a novelist and literary
translator, spoke on his work with Mexican
novelist Carlos Fuentes, under the co-
sponsorship of the department of romance
languages and the Glasgow Committee.

 

TWO SUMMER PROGRAMS

 

1 Humanities Institute for Business Executives

 

The University will offer this summer a
course in the humanities for rising business
executives that President Huntley has said
has ‘‘the promise of truly distinctive service
to the business community.’’

The Washington and Lee Institute for
Executives—to be held from June 14 through
June 27—will relate the humanities to
contemporary business issues and their far-
reaching ethical implications. The Institute is
designed primarily for men and women who
are moving, or who may soon be expected to
move, from middle-level positions in
business where decisions are relatively
narrow in scope and technical in nature into
positions of greater responsibility where
decisions are broader in scope, less
technical, involve more components, and
have far-reaching consequences.

The brochure announcing the Institute
notes: “Studies in the humanities have long
been the chief form of inquiry designed to
nurture the wider vision and to develop the
qualities of mind so essential to executive
leadership. They develop the mind’s capacity
for distinguishing the good from the bad, for
thinking about the side array of components
found in all long-range decisions. Thus
studies in the humanities are directly
beneficial to the life of the corporation. ”’

The Institute is not a charm school, nor

another ‘‘management development’’
workshop, nor a short course in ‘‘decision-
making analysis.’’ A premise of the Institute
is that the effective executive—the person
with insight, imagination, wisdom, the larger
vision—attains qualities for problem solving
not so much from textbook learning and
technical training as from studies of man
himself, that is, from knowledge of the
lasting products of man’s mind embodied in
the humanities.

President Huntley said: ‘“We have no
ability to tell businessmen what to decide.
Nor will intellectual rejuvenation for
participants in the Institute be more than a
pleasant, welcome by-product of our
program. What we propose to do is simply
this: to help rising executives confront their
new challenges with broadened humanistic
perspective, a sharpened ability to recognize
ethical problems as they arise, and richer
capacity to think with precision in resolving
ethical quandries.’’

By making use of W&L’s excellent
faculty and facilities during the two-week
session, the approximately 30 participants
will pursue the Institute’s goals by examining
classical literary and philosophical writings
and by analyzing contemporary business
issues using the case method.

The program, which received a

substantial grant during its early planning
stages from the National Endowment for the
Humanities, has three prominent
businessmen as advisors: Andrew Lewis,
president of Best Products Co., Inc.; Ross R.
Millhiser, vice chairman of Philip Morris,
Inc., and T. Justin Moore, chairman and
chief executive officer of Virginia Electric
and Power Co. These men share a deep
concern for the breadth of perspective which
the next generation of decision-makers will
bring with them as they rise to top executive
positions.

Lectures by members of the Institute
faculty and guest professors and group
discussions will highlight each day of the
program, with such outside events as art
demonstrations or recreational activities
rounding out evenings of study and reflection.
Participants will also have full use of W&L’s
superlative athletic facilities and opportunity
to enjoy the beautiful Rockbridge area.

Additional information about the Institute
is available. Write or call:

Dr. Louis W. Hodges,
Academic Director

Institute for Executives

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-9111, Ext. 281

 

2 Summer Scholars ’81 for High School Students

 

Another summer program at Washington
_and Lee, this one for high school students,
will take place July 5 through July 31.
**Summer Scholars ’81,’’ is a
coeducational program designed to give
college-bound students, regardless of the
college they hope or plan to attend, the
opportunity to sample college life for nearly
a month. Its primary goals are to stimulate
and extend the intellectual curiosity of the
participants and to help them dispel any
anxieties about their ability to meet the
academic and social challenges of college.
The participants—students who will
graduate from high school in 1982 and who
are academically oriented, self-disciplined

and have a strong secondary school
background—will take two courses selected
from a list of 12. The courses, all taught by
outstanding W&L faculty members, will
cover such diverse topics as ‘‘Contemporary
Economic Issues,’’ ‘‘Leadership in the ’80s,”’
and ‘‘The Theory and Practice of Public
Speaking.’’ In all, there are courses available
in Administration, Biology, Chemistry,
Computer Science, Economics, English,
German (in translation), History, Physics, and
Political Science.

There will be sufficient time for
recreation and social activities as well, all
under the direction of an experienced
professional assisted by college-student

counselors. Activities will include squash,
handball, basketball, tennis, swimming, etc.,
as well as movies, dances, field trips, and
plays.

Applications for Summer Scholars ’8 1
are due not later than May 1. Students will
be notified by May 15 whether or not they
have been accepted.

Persons interested should apply as soon
as possible. Additional information is avail-
able by writing or calling:

Dr. John F. DeVogt, Director
Summer Scholars ’81
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9111, Ext. 163

17

WINTER SPORTS

Season Ends with Mixed Records; New Baseball Coach; NCAA Scholarship

 

 

Basketball

Seniors Rob Smitherman and Carby Hoy
earned top honors as the Washington and Lee
basketball team closed out its 1980-81 season
with a 16-10 record.

Smitherman, a 6-7 center from Mt.
Jackson, Va., was selected to the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) all-
conference first team while Hoy, a 6-3 guard
from Bryn Mawr, Pa., was named to the All-
ODAC second-team.

Smitherman, who earned his fourth
varsity letter, started all 26 games this season
and joined with Hoy to lead the team with a
14.0-point scoring average. He finished his
career with 1,034 points. Smitherman also
led W&L in field goal shooting, connecting
on 54.4% of his shots, and finished second
in rebounding, averaging 8.5 per game.

Hoy, a three-year letterman, also
averaged 14 points a game and had 920 for
his W&L career. A second-team all-
conference selection for the 1978-79 season,
Hoy finished second on the team in assists
with 72.

The Generals concluded their season with
a 60-58 set-back to rival Hampden-Sydney
College in the quarterfinal round of the fifth
annual ODAC Championship Tournament
held in Salem, Va. W&L’s 16-10 final
record is the team’s 14th winning mark
during head coach Verne Canfield’s tenure.

 

—E—
Swimming

Washington and Lee’s swimming team,
which compiled a 3-7 dual meet record this
winter, qualified three individuals and a relay
team for the NCAA Division III national
championships in March.

Mike Bernot, a junior from Hampton,
Va., qualified for the nationals in the 50-,
100- and 200-yard freestyle events. Rob
Crawford, a sophomore from Ft. Walton
Beach, Fla., qualified in the 200-yard
individual medley, and the 100- and 200-
yard breaststroke events. Tim Rock, a
freshman from San Antonio, Texas, qualified
in the 500- and 1650-yard freestyles.

In addition, W&L’s 400-yard freestyle
relay team of junior Herb Gresens, freshman
Jeff Gee, Bernot, and Crawford qualified

18

Carby Hoy puts in a layup in home game against Roanoke.

Senior Rob

See nse

Smitherman vs. Hampden-Sydney

 

 

while setting a school record in their event
with a time of 3:43.11.

Individually, Crawford established a
W&L record in all three of his events with
times of 1:59.07 in the 200-yard individual
medley, 1:00.95 in the 100-yard
breaststroke, and 2:15.95 in the 200-yard
breaststroke.

The Generals, coached by Page
Remillard, have been represented in the
Division III championships each of the seven
years they have been held.

 

 

Indoor Track

Washington and Lee’s track team, which
placed third in a five-team field at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Indoor Track
Championships, now turns its sights toward
the outdoor schedule.

At the ODAC indoor championships, the
Generals claimed first place finishes in four
of the 14 events while running up a team
score of 44 points.

W&L’s individual event champions were
junior John McKee of Clarksdale, Miss..,
who won the shot-put with a heave of 42
feet, 7 inches; sophomore Gene Fellin of
Hazelton, Pa., who won the pole vault with a
13-foot, 3-inch effort that tied the Wé&L

 

 

 

school record set in 1954; freshman Kevin
Kadesky of Dallas, Texas, who won the 60-
yard dash title with a 6.6 seconds clocking;
and the mile-relay team of seniors Billy
Morris of Jacksonville, Fla., R. J. Scaggs of
Roanoke, Va., freshmen Eroll Skyers of
Bridgeport, Conn., and Kadesky, which
turned in a 3:39.3 minute performance.
Other top Generals included: Junior Russ
Rector of Kansas City, Mo., who finished
second in the triple jump and fifth in the high
jump; sophomore Alan Armitage of Cape
Elizabeth, Maine, who was second in the 60-
yard high hurdles; Scaggs, who placed third
in the 880-yard run; and the 440-yard relay
team, composed of senior Billy Morris,
freshmen Bob Jenevein and Keith and Kevin
Kadesky, all of Dallas, which placed third.
"“These were very pleasing individual
performances,’’ stated eleventh-year head
coach Norris Aldridge. ‘“While we simply
did not have the numbers to overcome
Lynchburg for second place, our younger
athletes came through with some strong
showings to earn the individual honors.”’

 

 

Wrestling

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team
posted a 4-9 record this winter under eighth-
year head coach Gary Franke.

The Generals’ key senior was captain
Dave Stoeffel, competing in the 167-pound
class. Stoeffel compiled a 10-12 overall
record and a 7-5 dual match mark.
Classmates on the squad included Jim Forte
and Jerry Broccoli, both of whom competed
in their first season on the W&L mats, Les
Heart, who missed all but one match due to
injury, Charles Adler, and four-year manager
Vince Rospond.

Four freshmen held spots in the starting
line-up this season. Tim Valliere, the 158-
pound entry, and Carlton Peebles,
heavyweight, were the most notable :
newcomers as both competed in the NCAA
Division III Eastern Regionals, in Salisbury,
Md. Valliere finished the season with a 15-
12 overall record and a 9-4 dual match mark,
both best on the team, while Peebles turned
in an 11-15 overall showing and 7-6 dual
match performance.

Other freshmen who performed well as
starters were Scott Mason in the 126-pound

 

Freshman Tim Rock goes full tilt in butterfly relay.

division and Rich Kopelman at 134. Mason
rang up a 7-14 overall record, Kopelman a 7-
11 mark.

Also holding starting spots in the line-up
were junior Elbert Umila in the 118-pound
category; sophomore Greg Coy at 150; and
sophomore Win Sisson at 142.

W&L’s four wins came over Hampden-
Sydney (27-24), Lynchburg (31-22) and
Longwood (35-24 and 32-20). In addition to
the 13 dual matches, the Generals were hosts
for a pair of invitationals (the W&L
Invitational and the W&L College
Invitational) and travelled to two other
invitational meets.

 

 

eT

Jones succeeds Kroll
as baseball coach

Craig Jones, a three-time Academic All-
American at Virginia Military Institute, has
been named head baseball coach at W&L.

Jones replaces Chuck Kroll, who
resigned to accept a position as assistant
football and assistant lacrosse coach at
Colorado School of Mines in Golden,

Colo.

A native of Norfolk, Va., Jones was a
pitcher and shortstop for the VMI baseball
team, but gained more renown as a record-
setting placekicker with the Keydet football
team.

Jones, who came within one field goal of
tying the NCAA career record, was voted to
the All-Southern Conference football team in

 

1977, 1978 and 1979.

At VMI, he was named recipient of the
U.S. Army Superior Cadet award in 1977
and 1978. He holds a bachelor of arts degree
in English.

neem

—_—

Nunley is awarded
NCAA graduate scholarship

Lonnie D. (Chip) Nunley, a W&L senior
from Bristol, Va., has been awarded a
$2,000 NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship.

Nunley, a three-year letterman for the
Generals’ football team, was one of 33
college football players from throughout the
country receiving the NCAA grants. He
becomes the ninth W&L student-athlete and
the sixth General football player to win the
award, first offered to college athletes during
the 1964-65 academic year.

The 6-3, 220-pound Nunley started at
offensive tackle for three seasons and was
awarded first team All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference honors his junior and
senior years. He also earned three varsity
letters in track.

An English and politics major, Nunley is
a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, the
national leadership fraternity, and of Phi
Kappa Psi social fraternity. He is vice
president of the Inter-Fraternity Council and
assistant head dorm counselor.

Nunley plans to use the NCAA
scholarship to pursue a graduate degree in
law.

19

CHAPTER NEWS

 

at the DuBose home.

 

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. The chapter
held its annual reception for current and
prospective students on Dec. 22, 1980, at the
KCOZ-FM radio station in Shreveport.
Chapter officers Arch Frierson, ’73, and
Haller Jackson III, ’*73, presented a campus
slide program for the 30 alumni and ten
prospective students in attendance.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. Alumni held a
cocktail reception on Jan. 12 in Tampa at the
home of Tom Touchton, ’60. Steve Fluharty,
°73, chapter president, introduced the

20

ATLANTA—Madison F.. Cole Jr., ’’71, chapter president; Eileen DuBose, wife
of Beverly DuBose III, ’62, and President and Mrs. Huntley enjoy a reception

SAN DIEGO—At the chapter’s cocktail party were: (standing) Paul R.
Speckman Jr., ’57, ’60L; Jack Keith Jr.,’42L; Max Elliott, 60; Craig
Dorval, ’76; George Miller Jr., 56; Frank L. Price, ’36, ’38L; (seated) Mrs.

John Michaelsen; Mrs. Jack Keith; Nancy Dietrich, and Kathy Blair.

 

ATLANTA—At the Atlanta chapter reception were Thomas B. Branch III, ’58,
°60L, a member of the Board of Trustees; Richard A. Denny Jr., ’52, president

 

of the Alumni Association; President Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L, and
James F. Gallivan, ’51, a member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

  

speaker, Lewis John, ’58, W&L’s dean of
students. John provided an update on student
life for the alumni and talked with
prospective students and their parents who
were guests of the chapter. A special guest
was Barrington Whitaker, son of Bob
Whitaker, 55, who has already been
accepted on the early decision plan and will
enroll at the University in September.

CENTRAL FLORIDA. On Jan. 14 the
chapter held a cocktail party at the University
Club in Orlando. Warren Wilcox, ’57,

SAN DIEGO—Other alumni and spouses attending the chapter’s Jan. 16
gathering were: (standing) William G. Moseley, ’62; Bill Wildrick, ’67;
Ginger Wildrick; Bob Eikel, ’62; Horace W. Dietrich Jr., ’52; John
Michaelsen, ’64; (seated) Jo Price.

 

 

chapter president, arranged the gathering to
allow area alumni an opportunity to meet
with Lewis John, ’58, Washington and Lee’s
dean of students. John spoke to several
Florida alumni chapters while attending a
conference on law and higher education in
St. Petersburg.

GULF STREAM. Chapter president Bud
Clarke, ’66, arranged a meeting of the
chapter on Jan. 15 at the Miami Club.
Cocktails and dinner preceeded a general
campus update by Lewis John, 758, dean of

 

 

 

BALTIMORE—The Right Rev. Christoph Keller Jr., ’39, and Mrs. Keller
(left), enjoy oysters at the home of Frank C. Brooks, ’46. Also pictured are W.
J. Watt, dean of the College; Mrs. Vernon Snyder; Mrs. Gordon Leggett (back

to camera), and Robert H. Willis Jr., 81, student body president.

 

BALTIMORE—Thomas D. Anderson, ’34L, a member of the Board of
Trustees, joined the W&L Glee Club to sing ‘‘The Swing.”’

students. John introduced William McHenry,
’54, director of athletics, who was in Miami
to attend the NCAA Conference. The
enthusiastic, interested alumni kept both
busy answering questions for nearly an hour.

ATLANTA. A large number of alumni and
guests attended a reception at the home of
Beverly M. DuBose III, ’62, on Jan. 16.
President Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L,
and Mrs. Huntley were honored guests.
Madison Cole, ’71, president of the chapter,
and Mr. and Mrs. DuBose, received the

 

BALTIMORE—Walter S. Blake, ’72; Randolph W. Brinton, ’68, and Mrs.
Brinton; Joseph C. Wich Jr., ’69, chapter president, and Mrs. Wich, attended
the chapter’s cocktail party at the Baltimore Convention Center.

BALTIMORE—The chapter’s cocktail party allowed John B. Howard, ’57;
Joseph C. Wich Jr., ’69, chapter president; Ralph Kemp, chairman of the

 

Parents’ Fund, and Richard Sessoms, associate director of development, to

relax and talk.

guests. The chapter was especially pleased to.

welcome Thomas Branch, ’58, ’60L, a
member of the University’s Board of
Trustees, Richard A. Denny Jr., ’52,
president of the Alumni Association, and
James F. Gallivan, ’51, an alumni director
from Nashville. W. C. (Bill) Washburn, ’40,
and Mrs. Washburn were also present.

SAN DIEGO. Dr. Max Elliott, ’60, and
Mrs. Elliott were hosts for an alumni cocktail
party at their home in La Jolla on Jan. 16. A
continuous slide show of campus scenes

 

greeted the enthusiastic group of alumni and
their wives and guests. John Klinedinst, ’71,
chapter president, welcomed the guests and
advised of plans for future events.

BALTIMORE. A large group of alumni
enjoyed a cocktail party at the Baltimore
Convention Center on Feb. 13, given by the
University’s Board of Trustees and the
Baltimore Chapter in conjunction with the
Trustees’ winter meeting in Baltimore. The
arrangements for the occasion were made by
Joseph C. Wich Jr., 69, chapter president,

21

CHAPTER NEWS

 

president, and Hardwick Stuart, ’66, ’68L.

731, and Mrs. Stemmons.

the chapter officers, and Frank C. Brooks,
°46, a member of the Board of Trustees.
Among the guests were President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley and several members
of the University administration. Highlights
of the evening included a performance by the
W&L Glee Club and brief remarks by
President Huntley. The Trustees held
business meetings during the weekend at the
Cross Keys Inn.

CHARLOTTE. The chapter held a cocktail
reception at the Myers Park Country Club on
Feb. 6. Special guests for the occasion were

22

PALMETTO—At the chapter’ s cocktail party and dinner ware! Gary G.
Dannelly, ’75; Wilson H. Lear, ’51; Claude M. Walker Jr., ’71, chapter

NORTH TEXAS—Among the guests at the Northwood Club in Dallas on Nov.
11 were Mrs. Margaret Altman; Rev. Jack Altman, ’74; Mrs. Evelyn Huntley;
President Huntley, ’50, 57L; Mrs. J. Harvey Allen Jr.; John M. Stemmons,

 

Il, ’78.

William R. Cogar, ’76.

W. C. Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, and
Mrs. Washburn, and L. C. Atkins, ’68,
assistant secretary, and Mrs. Atkins.
Washburn and Atkins presented a color slide
program, which was enthusiastically received
by the group. Henry A. Harkey, ’71, chapter
president, made.the arrangements.

PALMETTO. The chapter held a cocktail
party and dinner at Seawell’s Restaurant in
Columbia, S.C., on Feb. 5. The
arrangements were made by J. Hagood
Ellison Jr., ’72, the outgoing president. In
his welcoming remarks Ellison paid special

PALMETTO—Also at the chapter’s gathering were Henry y. Hamilton, 79;
Julian J. Nexon Jr.,’76; Michael A. Burnette, ’’79, and Marcus M. Pennell

CHARLOTTE—At cocktail reception held at Myers Park Country Club were
Luther H. Dudley II, ’76; Mrs. Henry Harkey; Henry A. Harkey, ’71, and

 

 

tribute to Bob Graham, ’37, and Ed Cuttino,
°42, attending from Sumter, and T. B.
Bryant Jr., ’28, attending from Orangeburg.
The University’s representatives, Bill
Washburn, ’40, and Buddy Atkins, ’68,
made brief remarks and presented color
slides. In the brief business session the
following new officers were installed:
Claude M. Walker Jr., ’71, president; Joe
Walker II, ’76, vice president; Willoughby
Newton III, 60, secretary, and Julian J.
Nexsen Jr., ’76, treasurer. After taking the
gavel Walker announced plans for future
chapter activities.

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to “‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘“steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
five colors. Price $50.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $95.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $50.00 f.o.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

 

1914

JOHN EDWIN WAYLAND, a Presbyterian minister for
more than 62 years, is now retired and lives in Char-
lotte, N.C.

1920

SHIRLEY J. ROBBINS, formerly of New York, has re-
tired from his law practice and lives in Clemson, S.C.

HAROLD GORDON ROBERTSON, retired president and
chairman of the board of Colonial American National
Bank, continues to be active in community affairs.
He is a member of the board of the Virginia Baptist
Childrens’ Home and has not missed a meeting in
over 50 years. He lives in Salem, Va.

1921

Dr. SAMUEL L. RAINES, a urologist in Memphis,
Tenn., recently received two awards. On Sept. 30 the
Methodist Hospital Foundation presented him with
its Living Award, given for outstanding service, at
ceremonies at the Memphis Country Club. A member
of the medical staff of the Methodist Hospital since
1938, Raines was chief of staff in 1948-49 and 1964-
69. Raines was presented with the 1980 Outstanding
Alumnus Award by the University of Tennessee Col-
lege of Medicine on Nov. 14. Raines has been presi-
dent of the Memphis Urological Society twice and
president of the Southeastern Section of the American
Urological Association.

1922

SAMUEL L. SANDERSON, a retired educator living in
Lexington, Va., has published a book Science in
Culture: A Study of Values and Institutions. His first
book, Elements, was a volume of poems that dealt
with spiritual values in science.

1926

Dr. CHARLES W. Lowry, a retired minister and
editor of The Blessings of Liberty, has been recorded
in Who’s Who in The World.

Le,

ALLEN Harris Jr. remains active in the Harris
Manufacturing Co., a lumber and flooring company
in Johnson City, Tenn. Last October Harris went ona
hunting trip in Wyoming where he bagged the trophy
antelope.

Dr. ALEX S. MorretT has retired from surgical
practice and lives in New York near his two daughters
and three grandchildren. He is studying music and is
active in his church.

JOHN B. Perry Jr. and his wife, Ruth, celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary with a family dinner
at the Hotel Roanoke in Roanoke, Va., on June 21,
1980. Perry wore the same cutaway coat that he wore
in 1930. The Perrys are native West Virginians and
were married in Bluefield. They moved to Roanoke

23

CLASS NOTES

in 1944 for a banking assignment. Perry later joined
the loan division of the Veterans Administration and
transferred to the Jacksonville, Fla., office in 1959.
He retired in 1972. They live in Neptune Beach, Fla.

1928

GERALD F. HorIngE, a retired executive of Ford Motor
Co., is a member of the board of directors of the
Alexandria (Va.) Red Cross and a member of the
Alexandria Hospital Corp.

1930

JOHN P. Davis of Winston-Salem, N.C., is retired
and studying art history at Salem College. He attends
oil painting classes, travels extensively in western
Europe, and is involved in church work and garden-
ing.

JAMES C. CASH JR. retired in 1974 from B. F. Good-
rich Co. He continues to be active in several civic and

charitable organizations and travels extensively.

1934
JOHN H. Cooke of Alden, N.Y., has retired after 18

years as judge of the New York Court of Claims. He
served 42 years in public office.

HENRY L. KING JR. continues as president of Home
Oil Co. in Hot Springs, Va.

Dr. VICTOR F. MARSHALL, retired chief urologist of
the New York Hospital and clinical professor of sur-
gery at Cornell University Medical School, is now a
professor of urology at the University of Virginia. In
1978 Marshall became an honorary fellow of the
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland. He remains
attending surgeon at Memorial Cancer Center in New
York City. Marshall received an honorary doctor of
science degree from Washington and Lee in 1975.

J. M. WHITE is a representative of Boxley Quarries
and other stone quarries in the construction aggregate
business throughout Virginia, West Virginia and
North Carolina. He operates out of Roanoke, Va.

1935

Dr. SIDNEY LYONS, has retired from family practice
after 32 years. He continues to live in Arlington, Va.

GILBERT R. SWINK continues as U.S. Magistrate in
Norfolk, Va.

1936

PricE M. Davis Jr. of Mequon, Wis., has retired
after 25 years of service with Shadbolt & Boyd Co.,
an industrial equipment distributor in Milwaukee. He
remains a director of the company.

W. MAGRUDER DRAKE retired in June 1980, as pro-
fessor of history of the University of Southwestern

24

 

 

NEW VIRGINIA JUSTICE

Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr., °43, ’47L, judge of the
25th Judicial Circuit in Covington since 1973, has
been named to the Virginia Supreme Court. Stephen-
son was Commonwealth’s Attorney for Alleghany
County and Covington from 1951 to 1963 and a
partner in the firm of Stephenson, Kostel, Watson,
Carson & Snyder until his appointment as circuit
judge.

 

 

Louisiana after 25 years. He was named professor of
history, emeritus.

PAUL G. HERVEY, Since retirement in 1977 after 43
years in education in the State of Texas, lives in
Corpus Christi, and continues to be very active in
writing, counseling, and politics. Hervey was active
in the 1980 campaign to elect Democratic Congress-
man Bill Patman. Hervey’s teaching and counseling
career spans some seven institutions under six ad-
ministrations. His last position was chairman of the
psychology department at Del Mar College in Corpus
Christi.

STUART T. MILLER, after 43 years with Western
Electric Co., retired in 1979 and lives in Rosewell,
Ga.

FRANK L. PRICE, retired from the FBI, is now serving
as chairman of Q.E.D., a civic and patriotic group of
retired executives of LaJolla, Calif. He is also serving
as director for the special agents legal fund.

EDWARD A. TURVILLE attended the Wimbledon
Tennis Championships for the 14th time this past
year. He was recently named an honorary member of
the All-England Tennis Club.

1937

JOHN M. McCarDELt has been elected president of
Potomac Edison Co., a subsidiary of Allegheny
Power System, Inc. McCardell joined Potomac Edi-
son in 1937 in his hometown of Frederick, Md., and
has held a number of positions. He became executive
vice president in 1969. McCardell was president of
the Public Utilities Association of the Virginias, a
director of the Southeastern Electric Exchange,
president of the Maryland-District of Columbia Utili-
ties Association and a director of the Edison Electric
Institute. McCardell lives in Hagerstown, where he
has been active in various capacities with many civic
organizations including the United Way. He is a
member of the board of trustees of Washington County
Hospital.

LAURENCE (LARRY) W. WILSON JR., after 45 years in
the garment business and the last 32 years with Blue
Bell, Inc., Wrangler Menswear Division, retired in
October and lives in Richmond, Va.

1938

WILLIAM B. BaAGBy, a retired Navy commander, is
vice president of Thomas Rutherford, Inc., a Roa-
noke, Va., insurance agency. He and his wife, the
former Lelia Coche, have three sons.

Dr. Harry M. PHILPOTT, former president of Auburn
University, received an honorary doctorate of laws
degree from the University of Montevallo in Monte-
vallo, Ala., on Dec. 13, 1980, during the University’s
fall commencement program. President of Auburn
from 1965 to 1980, Philpott has received several
honors, including honorary degrees from Stetson
University, University of Florida, University of Ala-
bama, and an honorary doctor of laws degree in 1966

from Washington and Lee. Philpott is a former presi-
dent and chairman of the executive board of the
National Association of State Universities and Land
Grant Colleges.

J. HirAM SMITH of Lexington, Ky., continues with
the Kentucky Geological Survey in the coal section.
He retired three years ago from the U.S. Geological
Survey.

FRANK L. PRICE (See 1936.)

1939

An article about GEORGE E. GOODWIN recently ap-
peared in the Atlanta Weekly section of the Atlanta
Journal and Constitution. Goodwin is president of
Manning, Selvage & Lee/Atlanta, a public relations
firm, and “‘reigns as Atlanta’s ‘fixer’ par excellence
and ultimate middleman.’’ He lobbied the legislature
for support of the Memorial Art Center and Alliance
Theater and helped found the Lovett and Westminster
Schools. The newspaper said, ‘‘Goodwin is the go-
between, the figure who straddles the public and
private sectors; . . . he is the man that carries back
and forth the messages that fine-tune the deals which
transform the city’s future.’’

GEORGE C. Kerr retired in August 1980 after more
than 35 years of service with the General Adjustment
Bureau, Inc. At the time of his retirement he was
executive general adjustor. He and his wife, Florence,
live in Lakehurst, N.J.

RODNEY L. ODELL and wife, Anne, skippered their
30-foot motor sailer, Antje, from New Jersey to
Florida on the Intercoastal Waterway. Odell retired
two years ago as editor of a daily newspaper. They
live in an ocean-front home in Ship Bottom, N.J.

1940

JACK AKIN, an attorney in Albuquerque, N. Mex.,
has recently returned from a 25-day tour in the Re-
public of China.

ROBERT A. FULLER retired in May 1980 after 31
years with CBS.

1942

JOHN ALEXANDER has withdrawn from the firm of
Martin, Walker and Lawrence of Warrenton, Va., to
become judge of the General District Court of the
20th Judicial Circuit of Virginia. Continuing as part-
ners are H. Benjamin Jones Jr., ’65L, and Jonathan
S. Lynn, ’71, ’75L, while Powell L. Duggan, ’80L,
iS now an associate.

ROBERT CAMPBELL Is editor of The Times newspaper
in Gainesville, Ga. In 1981, he will serve his second
time as a juror for the Pulitzer Prizes in journalism.

W. JOHN DANIEL joined Environmental Control Pro-
ducts, Inc., as vice president and chief executive
officer in August 1980. The Charlotte, N.C., firm is
engaged in the manufacture of incineration systems

 

   

A. H. McCutcheon Jr., "48

designed to turn industrial, institutional and municipal
wastes into energy. He lives in Rock Hill, S.C.

L. JAMES WARMS, owner and operator of a retail
shop, Clothes Tree, in Youngstown, Ohio, has opened
a branch at the new Boca Beach Club in Boca Raton,
Fla., called the Painted Bird, a woman’s specialty
shop and gift store.

MARRIAGE: WILuiAM R. MALLoy and Patricia T.
Warner on Feb. 9, 1980, in Leesburg, Va. The couple
lives in Hilton Head Island, S.C.

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN completed his term as
chairman of the excess, surplus lines and reinsurance
law committee of the section on torts and insurance
practice—a committee of the American Bar Associa-
tion—in August 1980. His term ended at the Bar
Association’s meeting in Honolulu.

WILLIAM S. LATZz is administrative development di-
rector of St. Joseph’s Hospital in Fort Wayne, Ind.

1946

FIELDER COOK continues to produce films for the
major television networks. Among his recent produc-
tions were Too Far To Go, a two-hour film for NBC
based on John Updyke stories, and J Know Why The
Caged Bird Sings, a CBS film. He is currently working
on Family Reunion, a four-hour film for NBC with
Bette Davis. Cook resides in New York.

EDMUND S. WILLIS is president of Elgin Electronics,
manufacturers of telecommunications products. The
company was recently acquired by Combustion
Engineering, Inc., of Stamford, Conn. Willis and his
wife have five children and two grandchildren.

1947

WILLIAM T. (WILL) BROTHERTON, chairman of the
Kanawha County Democratic Executive Committee,
has made a fine record in the West Virginia Legislature
since 1952. He stepped down as a leader of the Senate
on Jan. 1. A hallmark of Brotherton’s legislative
career and leadership role in the Senate has been the
emergence of an independent legislative branch. He
spent six terms in the House before being elected to
the Senate in 1964 and was responsible for the creation
of the Legislature’s investigative arm, the Commis-
sion on Special Investigations.

ROBERT A. WarRMS of Melrose Park, Pa., is in the
specialty advertising and premium business with his
daughter, Patricia. He and his wife, Jessie, who is a
research associate for the Institute for Cancer Re-
search, also have a son, Richard.

1948

Lewis V. BOYLE is pastor of the historic New Mon-
mouth Presbyterian Church in Lexington, Va.

ANDREW H. McCuTcHEon Jr. has been promoted to

national sales manager of the can division of Reynolds
Metals Co. in Richmond, Va. He joined Reynolds in
1970 and has been director of public affairs since
1974.

1949

JOSEPH B. MarTIN is in labor relations work with
American Electric Power Co. The company recently
moved its headquarters from New York City to
Columbus, Ohio.

MATTHEW PAXTON Jr. is concluding his second term
as president of Historic Lexington Foundation.

Harry A. SCHULTZ of Albuquerque, N. Mex., is
completing his 10th year with the Prudential Insurance
Co. of America.

BENJAMIN L. WESSON, after a career as a federal
attorney in Washington, is now practicing law in
Huntsville, Ala.

1950

NEIL E. MCNEIL has become city attorney for Tulsa,
Okla., after being assistant for four years.

ROBERT S. MENDELSOHN of Ballwin, Mo., recently
visited Dr. James Leyburn, W&L’s dean emeritus, at
his home in Martinsburg, W.Va. He reports Dr.
Leyburn is well and quite active.

BERNARD TALLEY was awarded a doctorate degree in
education in July 1980 by Highland University in
Tennessee.

WILLIAM T. BROTHERTON (See 1947.)

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN (See 1944.)

1951

GEORGE F. ARATA JR. is president and chief executive
officer of Southeast Bank of Indian River in Vero
Beach, Fla. The bank is a consolidation of the former
Southeast Bank of Sebastian and the Southeast Bank
of Indian River, N.A. Arata has been with Southeast
Bank since 1967. He held various management posi-
tions prior to becoming president of the Sebastian
Bank in 1976.

EDWARD P. BASSETT is editor of Statesman Journal
Newspapers in Salem, Ore.

Dr. EARL R. CAMPBELL is an orthopedic surgeon
with the Veterans Administration in Cheyenne, Wyo.

JOHN F. Kay JrR., an attorney with the firm of Mays,
Valentine, Davenport & Moore in Richmond, Va.,
has been elected president of the Virginia Bar
Association. He will take office in January 1982. Kay
has practiced law in Richmond since 1957. He is a
member of the Virginia Board of Bar Examiners and
the American College of Trial Lawyers.

JOHN O. Mars, former counselor to President Gerald

Ford and a practicing attorney in Washington, D.C.,
has been appointed Secretary of the Army by Presi-
dent Reagan. Marsh represented Virginia in Congress
from 1963 to 1971. He was a member of Reagan’s
transition team.

PaRK B. SmIrtH of Charleston, S.C., became a partner
of J. C. Bradford and Company. He is also a member
of NASD District #7, a business conduct committee.

THOMAS K. WOLFE Jr. was in London in November
to promote his new book In Our Times, which is a
collection of short pieces and drawings on con-
temporary America. The Times of London stated that
it is the first time that a book ‘‘includes his illustra-
tions, extravagant caricatures of Americans he has
debunked in words, though he has been drawing ever
since his first journalistic assignment.’’

1952

ROBERT E. L. Batts of Ft. Worth, Texas, is a stock-
broker with Rauscher Pierce Refsnes. He and his
wife, the former Carolyn Kemble, have four chil-
dren.

VICTOR E. BEHRENS, JR. has relocated in Abilene,
Texas, where he is associated with the estate planning
firm of Behrens & Behrens, established by his great
uncle. He and his wife, Peggy, have an 8-year-old
son, Victor III.

JOHN D. TRIMBLE JR. of El Dorado, Ark., is engaged
in oil production, farming, and timber management.
He and his wife have three children.

1953

WILLIAM E. Brock III, former Congressman and
Senator from Tennessee and most recently the chair-
man of the Republican National Committee, has been
appointed Special Representative for Trade Negotia-
tions by President Reagan.

JAMES C. GALT of Wilmington, Del., is manager for
instruments and control in duPont’s engineering
physics laboratory.

RODNEY F. STOCK is chairman of the board of direc-
tors of the Reno, Nev., Supervisory Administrative
Employee Association.

RUEL W. Tyson Jr. has completed five years as
chairman of the religion department at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. He is a Senior
Research Fellow at the Center for Humanities at
Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., for
1980-81.

1954

STEPHEN S. SLOAN, president of World Wide Realty
Corp. of New York City, continues his strong interest
in fishing. A member of the International Game Fish
Association, he recently appeared in the New York
Times as leading a citizen’s group working to provide
angling for urban children in various lakes and ponds

25

CLASS NOTES

in New York City. Sloan is presently working on a
book tracing the history of fishing in America as seen
through the eyes of artists.

Dr. CarL SWANSON, professor and coordinator of
counselor education at James Madison University,
has been reappointed by the governor to the Virginia
Board of Professional Counselors. He is a member of
the Harrisonburg-Rockingham Mental Health and
Mental Retardation Board.

1955

MARRIAGE: HarRISON SOMERVILLE JR. and Peggy
Chandler Simon of Midland, Texas, on Nov. 29,
1980. Somerville is senior vice president for market-
ing of Thomas Somerville Co. in Potomac Falls, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS W. ROBBINS JR., a
son, Thomas W. III, on Dec. 15, 1980. The young
man joins a brother and three sisters. Robbins is with
Merck, Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories as
director of clinical research for Southern Europe.

EDWARD COHEN of Plymouth Meeting, Pa., is a
business consultant and sales representative to the
industrial packaging industry.

RoBERT H. INGHAM, with more than 20 years in the
advertising business, has been appointed copy chief
of Stiefel/Raymond Advertising, Inc., of New York
City. Ingham joined the company in 1978 after being
senior copywriter with Welborn Advertising, Inc., of
Springfield, N.J. He resides in Maplewood.

JOHN F. Kay Jr. (See 1951.)

1956

CHARLES L. CLAUNCH JR. is acaptain with American
Airlines. He lives in Nashville, Tenn.

WILLIAM C. NorMAN Jr., president of the First Na-
tional Bank in Crossett, Ark., has received an award
for outstanding civic betterment by the Arkansas
Community Development Program.

1957

C. PETER LEININGER has been named to the newly
created position of controller of the General Binding
Corp. headquartered in Northbrook, Ill. Leininger
was formerly controller for the implements division
of Allis Chalmers Corp.

DONALD S. Luria has been assigned to the office of
the assistant city administrator for planning and
development for Washington, D.C., for two years.
He will be directing research to help develop a com-
prehensive plan for the national capital for the year
2000.

1958

Dr. RICHARD A. Davis of Charlotte, N.C., was
named ‘‘Professional of the Year’’ by the local chap-
ter of the Mental Health Association.

26

 

   

T. L. Larimore, ’59 C. W. Via, ’62
DoMINICK (Dom) FLora is vice president of Cosmos,
the professional soccer organization. He joined Cos-
mos in 1977 as director of marketing. In 1976, he
became executive vice president and director of Fed-
eral Broadcasting Co. and helped form an all-sports
cable network. An outstanding baseball and basket-
ball player in high school and at W&L, Flora was
recently inducted into the W. L. Dickinson High
School Hall of Fame in Jersey City, N.J.

In September ToM FRIEDMAN joined Richmond
Brothers Co., the men’s retail stores division of F. W.
Woolworth Corp., as marketing director of their ‘‘new
concept’’ stores. There are now 39 such stores.

FRED L. HEINA has been named manager of the
Columbia, S.C., office of Bache Halsey Stuart
Shields, Inc., an investment banking and brokerage
firm. He has been with the firm since 1978, most
recently in the Charlotte office.

1959
JaMEs M. Crews Jr., executive vice president of
First Tennessee Bank N.A. in Memphis, is also
chairman of the board of the Methodist Hospitals
Foundation.

Tom L. Larmor has been elected vice president for
law and administration of the Western Company of
North America, an oil and gas exploration and servic-
ing firm, in Ft. Worth, Texas. He is also corporate
secretary.

1960
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Danlicét A. PENICK JR., ason,
Daniel A. V, on March 1, 1980. Penick is employed
by the Virginia State Division of Mineral Resources
as a geologist and mining engineer.

After 20 years of investment experience in Philadel-
phia, STEPHEN K. KENT JR. joined the Los Angeles
investment counseling firm of George D. Bjurman
and Associates on Oct. 1, 1980, as a senior vice
president and a member of the policy committee. He
manages a variety of accounts for pensions, endow-
ments, foundations, corporations and individuals.

ROBERT G. LATHROP is an associate professor of law
at West Virginia University College of Law speciali-
zing in tax law. He and his wife, Elizabeth, live in
Independence.

1961

Dr. CHARLES M. BaucuM, a psychiatrist in Denver,
Colo., has been appointed director of psychiatry at
St. Joseph’s Hospital.

CALVERT G. DECOLIGNY Jr. has been named vice
president of marketing from Calvert Coal, Inc., the
marketing and transportation arm of the Cerro-Mar-
mon Coal Group, a member of the Marmon Group.
Cerro Marmon produces high grade metallurgical
coal, the bulk of which goes to major steel-producing
companies in the U.S., Japan and Europe.

   

RICHARD A. PARSONS, an attorney in Peoria, IIl., is
also commissioner of the Illinois Court of Claims and
secretary to the Illinois State Bar Association’s Com-
mittee on the Code of Professional Responsibility.

SAMUEL C. (TAG) STRITE JR. has been transferred to
Bethesda, Md., with IBM where he is the controller
for their federal systems division.

Dr. CHARLES S. WassvuM III is serving as branch
president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints in Marion, Va.

1962

W. R. (RICK) ANDERSON is now a full professor of
English at Huntington College in Montgomery, Ala.
In the summer of 1980, Anderson participated in a
two-month seminar on southern fiction at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina under sponsorship of the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities. He was a
contributor to the recently published fourth volume of
the Dictionary of Library Biography.

RAWSON ForEMAN, an attorney in Atlanta, Ga., is
president of the board of directors of tne Legal Aid
Society. He is also a member of the board of directors
of the High Museum of Art.

EDWARD P. (NED) Hosss has been promoted to senior
vice president of the Ashforth Group, an 82-year-old
real estate firm that specializes in corporate needs in
Manhattan and Connecticut. Hobbs lives in New
Canaan, Conn.

RICHARD S. JONES is a government analyst with the
Library of Congress specializing in affairs of the
American Indian.

M. WILLIAM My ers has been elected president of
Underwood Builders Supply Co., a Mobile, Ala.,
based building material and concrete products cor-
poration.

LESLIE H. PEARD III is in his second year with E. F.
Hutton & Co. and has been awarded several sales
recognition awards. He lives in Fresno, Calif.

CHARLES W. VIA has been appointed data center
director of Philip Morris U.S.A. He has responsibility
for computer center operations in Richmond and pro-
vides functional direction for operations in New York
and Louisville. He had been technical manager in
their computer hardware and systems software func-
tion.

STANLEY A. WALTON is completing his 15th year
with the Chicago firm of Winston & Strawn as general
trial attorney.

1963

DANIEL T. BALFOUR, a partner of the Richmond law
firm of Maloney, Yeatts, Balfour, Barr & Repp,
advises that the firm has formed a partnership with
the law firm of Chess, Durrette & Roeder and the new
firm will be known as Maloney & Chess. W&L men

 

' in the new firm are: Wyatt B. Durrette Jr., 64, Ronald

K. Ingoe, ’68, and Mark E. Sharp, ’76. The firm will
have offices in Richmond and Northern Virginia.

PAUL H. BosweELt has completed his masters of laws
in taxation degree from Temple University. He lives
in Smyrna, Del.

Dr. FRANK O. Evans of Milledgeville, Ga., has
been elected to fellowship in the national medical
specialty society, the American College of Physi-
cians. He will be honored during the convocation
ceremony at the college’s annual session in Kansas
City, Mo., April 6-9, 1981. Election to fellowship in
the college signifies that a physician has been recog-
nized by his colleagues as having attained a high-
level of medical scholarship and achievement in in-
ternal medicine. Evans has been a resident of Mill-
edgeville for six years and is now on the staff of the
Baldwin County Hospital.

THOMAS N. RaINs completed his master’s of business
administration degree at Emory University in June
1980. He was elected to BetaGamma Sigma. Rains is
president of the Rains Co., a real estate development
firm in Atlanta. He is also chairman of the Northside
Hospital Authority of Fulton County.

1964
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN M. McDaniet III, a
daughter, Catherine, on Oct. 16, 1980. The young
lady joins an older sister, Elizabeth. McDaniel is
associate professor of anthropology at W&L and di-
rector of the regional office of the Virginia Research
Center for Archaeology.

EDWARD S. Crort II is first vice president of the
corporate finance department at Robinson-Humphrey
Co., a regional investment banking firm in Atlanta,
Ga. He is a member of the board of directors of
Computer Products, Inc., an electronics firm in Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., and recently became chairman of
the Bridge, a non-profit family counseling service in
Atlanta.

JOHN D. (JACK) Eure Jr., an attorney in Suffolk,
Va., has been elected president of the Suffolk Cham-
ber of Commerce for 1981.

SMITH (SKIP) HICKENLOOPER III is a partner of the
Cincinnati investment firm of Bartlett & Co. His
wife, Susan, is an advisor with the same firm.

ALVIN HUTZLER of Richmond, Va., has been elected
to the board of directors of the National Association
of Tobacco Distributors.

Davip HyMaN is vice president of Industrial Disposal

-Co., a Louisville, Ky., firm which provides removal

service in Kentucky and Indiana. Hyman was recently
elected president of the Detachable Container Asso-
Ciation, a group of refuse haulers and manufacturers
of refuse equipment.

Dr. THomas C. Lewis, former assistant professor of
medicine at the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-

mond, is now an associate with Dr. O. Hunter Mc-
Clung Jr. in general practice in Lexington, Va. Lewis
is board-certified in internal medicine.

Dr. Harry L. Partvetr III graduated from
Georgetown University School of Medicine in 1968
and began a naval career. Now a commander in the
Medical Corps, Partlett is a board-certified derma-
tologist stationed at the Naval Regional Medical Cen-
ter at Portsmouth, Va., where he is also an assistant
clinical professor of medicine for Eastern Virginia
Medical School and a special lecturer for George
Washington University School of Medicine. He and
his wife, Diane, have two sons, and the family lives
in Virginia Beach.

PENNINGTON H. Way III is vice president for under-
writing with Crump International Company, Ltd., an
insurance brokerage firm in San Francisco, Calif. His
wife, Helen, continues to pursue her career in art.

1965
MARRIAGE: ROBERT G. THOomaS and Cleary Joan
Smith on April 21, 1979, in Rye, N.Y. Attending
were C. Edmonds Allen III, ’65, Walter G. Thomas,
’37, J. Frederick Bartlett, ’64, and Edward H. Brad-
bury, 66. Thomas is an attorney in New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. NORMAN YOERG Jr., a
daughter, Ana Rose, on Dec. 30, 1979, in Pelham,
N.Y. Yoerg is an associate with the Wall Street law
firm of White and Case. He earned an LL.M. in trade
regulation at New York University in 1978.

JEAN FRIEDBERG is with McKinsey and Company,
a business consultant firm, and has just returned
from an assignment in Scandanavia with shipping
and steel making clients. He and his wife, Penny,
have a 3-year-old son, Michael, and a daughter,
Leah, who was born in March 1980. The family lives
in Columbia, Md.

MICHAEL J. MICHAELS, an attorney in Bolton, Mass.,
ran the New York Marathon on Oct. 26, 1980, in 3
hours and 30 minutes.

DANIEL T. BALFOuR (See 1963.)

ROBERT G. LaTHROP (See 1960.)

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip D. REDMOND, a
daughter, Sarah Dabney, on Dec. 1, 1979, in Rich-
mond.

EDWARD H. BRADBURY works in New York and part-
time in San Francisco with Donaldson, Lufkin and
Jenerette, where he is in charge of West Coast institu-
tional investors. He and his wife, Sarah, have a 3-
year-old daughter, Katherine.

KENNETH D. Caro is director of marketing for Konica

Corp. He lives in Flanders, N.J.

   

Jd. AWB. Palite?: "66

After two years as national sales manager for BESCO
Products, HARRY DENNERY has established his own
firm representing a French yeast company.

Dr. HAROLD D. HEap is on the cardiothoracic surgery
staff at Walter Reed Army Medical Center.

CHARLES W. Jones merged his C.P.A. practice on
Oct. 1, 1980, with Clifton, Gunderson and Co. The
firm has offices in 19 cities, primarily in the midwest,
and hopes to expand throughout the southeast with
Atlanta becoming the regional headquarters. Jones is
now a partner in the firm and in charge of the Atlanta
office.

VAL S. MCWHoRTER rejoined the Washington law
firm of King and King in November 1980. He had
been assistant general counsel to the Department of
the Navy and its legal member on the Defense Ac-
quisition Regulatory Council.

Harris J. MASLANSKY has been named president of
the motion picture division of Time-Life Films, a
new feature motion picture company started by Time,
Inc., in April 1980. He had been with Columbia
Pictures for 12 years.

JOHN A. B. PALMER was appointed a vice president
of Lawtex Industries, a division of Springs Mills
headquartered in Dalton, Ga. He had been assistant
corporate controller for Springs Mills.

Dr. WALTER W. STEELE is a clinical psychologist in
private practice in Morganton, N.C. He is also the
regional executive director for community mental
health, mental retardation and substance abuse serv-
ices. Steele and his wife, Virginia, have two children,
Darren, 8, and Caroline, 6.

1967
MARRIAGE: S. BRYANT KENDRICK Jr. and Doris
Morgan Queen on Oct. 18, 1980. They live in Win-
ston-Salem where Kendrick is chaplain to the students
at North Carolina Baptist Hospital and Bowman Gray
School of Medicine.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Rosert I. OstrorF and Eileen
Wilson of Santa Rosa, Calif., on June 24, 1980. They
live in Petaluma where Ostroff has been director of
the local emergency medical department for over
three years.

Dr. JOHN R. MCGILL was certified by the American
Board of Plastic Surgery in May 1980. He lives in
Hampden Highland, Maine.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER is completing his term as
president of the Rockingham County (N.C.) Young
Democrats. During his tenure the chapter was recog-
nized as the fastest growing and one of the most
active in the state. Rochester is public information
officer at Rockingham Community College in Went-
worth.

_BRADFORD SHINKLE IV is vice president and a partner

in the Wooden Bird Factory, Inc., manufacturers of

bs

   

A. R. Boren Jr., '68 L. Honig, ’70
hand-carved, decorative waterfowl decoys and pub-
lishers of limited edition wildlife art. He lives in
Minnetonka, Minn.

GEORGE N. STAMAS, most recently with European
Banking Co. Ltd. in New York City, has now become
assistant vice president of the First National Bank of
Chicago but remains at the bank’s office on Fifth
Avenue in New York City.

EDWARD A. SUPPLEE JR. is a consultant for Hewlett
Packard. He lives in Palo Alto, Calif.

RoBertT C. UTLEY is founder and secretary-treasurer
of Madhava Honey Ltd., the second largest honey
packer in Colorado. He lives in Longmont.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Dopp Brown, a son,
David Gordon on Nov. 11, 1980, in Chicago.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEVEN R. SAUNDERS, a
daughter, Keira Carnighan Hartman, on Oct. 25,
1980. The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. CHARLES B. Tomo, a daugh-
ter, Louise Langdon, on July 29, 1980, in Fort Smith,
Ark.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary P. WILKINSON, a son,
William Pratt, on Jan. 30, 1980, in Florence, Ala. He
joins two older brothers, Gary Jr. and John.

A. RODNEY BorEN JR. was elected vice president of
the eastern division of the Northwestern National
Bank of Minneapolis. He has been with Northwestern
National since 1974.

On Jan. 1, 1981, JAMES M. Boyp Jr. became a
partner in the law firm of Kronick, Moskovitz,
Tiedemann and Gerard. He lives in Sacramento,
Calif.

In April 1980, N. TAYLOR CARLSON joined Scientific-
Atlanta as controller of the company’s instrumentation

group.

Douctas S. Craic Jr. moved from New York to
Houston in February 1979 to enter a private law
practice.

THOMAS L. Howarb is a partner in the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Colton and Boykin. He is also
president of the Washington alumni chapter.

ALEX JONES is editor of the Greenville (Tenn.) Sun.
The paper won the Malcolm Law Award for Investi-
gative Reporting for 1980 from the Tennessee Asso-
ciated Press Managing Editors Association.

ROANE Lacy JR. is vice president of Plantation Foods,
a poultry processing firm in Waco, Texas. He and his
wife have a son, Ben, and a daughter, Jane.

Dr. H. GILBERT SMITH JR. started working in Sep-
tember 1980 at the Advance Technology Laboratory

28

  

of General Telephone and Electronics in Lexington,
Mass. His laboratory is performing biochemical re-
search to identify the molecular mechanisms of vi-
sion.

WENDALL L. WINN is associated with the law firm of
Richmond and Fishburne in Charlottesville.

MICHAEL J. MICHAELS (See 1965.)

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM D. FALVEY, a
daughter, Virginia Woodside, on Aug. 12, 1980, in
Memphis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LAWRENCE GILMER, a
daughter, Elaine Louise, on Sept. 27, 1980, in Tam-

pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. HENRY GRApDpy IV, a
daughter, Lucy Hart, on Sept. 30, 1980, in Versailles,
Ky. Graddy practices law with the firm of McCauley
and Elam, is assistant commonwealth’s attorney, and
is chairman of the Sierra Club of Kentucky.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. MICHAEL W. PUSTAY, a son,
Scott Buckley, on Jan. 8, 1979. Pustay is an associate
professor of economics at Bowling Green State Uni-
versity in Bowling Green, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JULIAN W. WALTHALL, a
second son, Claiborne Ellis, on April 3, 1980. The
family lives in Foley, Ala.

WILLIAM J. Cook earned his M.B.A. at Baldwin
Wallace College. He is research project leader for
Nordson Corp. and lives in Wellington, Ohio, with
his wife, Thalia, and two children.

JORGE E. ESTRADA has been promoted to vice presi-
dent and manager for Latin America of Geosource,
Inc. The firm is a leading supplier of services and
products to energy industries. He is based in Buenos
Aires.

Mayo MCGILL FirzHuau III is a management ana-
lyst with the General Accounting Office in Washing-
ton. In 1980, he was Northern Virginia Amateur Golf
Champion, runnerup in the Virginia State Amateur
Championship and Amateur Golfer of the Year for
the Washington Metro Area. FitzHugh has been mar-
ried to the former Frances E. Bradford since October
1977.

CLARK M. GooDwIn is with Coca-Cola Company in
Atlanta as project communications manager in charge
of advertising and public relations work. Goodwin’s
wife, Gail, is author of a book, The Preschooler’ s
Resource Book—A Guide for Atlanta Area Parents.

Dr. Davip D. JACKSON is a general surgeon in Mount
Airy, N.C. He and his wife have three children,
Richard, 4, Jennifer, 3, and Zach, 2.

PuHiLip W. Norwoop has withdrawn from his law
partnership in Birmingham to join the office building

division of Trammell Crow Co., a real estate devel-
opment firm. He is assigned to the Washington office
and works with Benjamin C. Paden Jr., ’70.

THOMAS H. WRIGHT III is secretary-treasurer of
Metzler, Muirheid and Wright Development Corp.
He is an architect and business manager for the At-
lanta firm which develops, builds and sells town-
houses. Wright earned his master of architecture de-
gree from the University of Pennsylvania. He was
recently featured in articles about the firm and their
work in Venture and Southern Living magazines.

VAL S. MCWHORTER (See 1966.)

DaviD D. REDMOND (See 1966.)

1970
MARRIAGE: RICHARD B. ARMSTRONG and Nancy J.
Jones on May 16, 1980. They live in New York
where Armstrong is vice president and manager of
the representative office of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Bruce S. SAMUELS and Jan Booth
on May 3, 1980. He practices internal medicine in
New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. CAHN JR., ason,
Charles Columbus III, in Hillsdale, N.J., on March
23, 1980.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM W. GooprIcH, a
son, William Walker Jr., on Nov. 13, 1980. The
family lives in Talladega, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. SCRUGGS JR., a
second daughter, Margaret Bade, on Oct. 25, 1980.
The family lives in Houston, where Scruggs is asso-
ciated with Fish Electric Co., an engineering and
contracting firm.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. GERALD W. WEEDON, a son,
John Kothman, on Nov. 21, 1980, in Jacksonville,
Fla.

LarrRY HOonic has just been elected a partner in Mc-
Kinsey & Co., Inc., the management consulting firm
with 28 offices around the world. Honig’s areas of
emphasis include business strategy and organization
effectiveness. Since joining McKinsey in 1975, he
has worked with client companies in Chicago, where
he lives with his wife and son, as well as in Canada
and Europe.

Gary L. Murpny has joined W. JOSEPH DOZIER JR.
in the Charlotte, N.C., law firm of Dozier, Miller,
Pollard and Murphy.

CLINTON B. PALMER III is a special effects cameraman
for Industrial Light and Magic in San Rafael, Calif.
He is working on Raiders of the Lost Ark, which is a
new sequal to Star Wars.

Dr. STUART L. PORTER is associate professor of

 

animal science at Blue Ridge Community College in
Weyers Cave, Va. He was recently elected vice
president of the Blue Ridge Veterinary Medical
Association.

ROBERT A. VINYARD, an attorney with Vinyard, Ka-
lista & Fluck in Abingdon, Va., was appointed by
Governor Dalton to his second term on the State
Advisory Board to National Legal Services, Inc. , and
to a four-year term on the State Board of Community
Colleges. Vinyard was recently elected president of
the Washington County Bar Association and president
and chairman of the board of Southwest Virginia
Legal Aid Society.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER C. Dove, a
son, Andrew McGregor on June 7, 1980, in Wash-
ington.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Huau F. HI III, a daughter,
Jennifer Elizabeth, on Nov. 11, 1980, in Silver
Spring, Md. Hill practices legal medicine in Wash-
ington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE L. MCCONNELL,
a daughter, Catherine Tayloe, on Nov. 14, 1979, in
Georgetown, S.C. McConnell is editor and publisher
of the Georgetown Times.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK W. STEARNS, a son,
Brian Scott, on June 16, 1980, in Arlington, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLAUDE M. WALKER JR., a
daughter, Mary Martin, on Jan. 10, 1981, in Colum-
bia, S.C.

NELSON F. BRINCKERHOFF is attending the New York
Law School in New York City.

Dr. JAMES W. ForRESTER is practicing obstetrics and
gynecology at the Appalachian Regional Hospital in
Whitesburg, Ky. He graduated from the University
of Louisville School of Medicine in 1975 and com-
pleted his residency there in 1980.

E. WREN HUDGINS is a school psychologist in Seattle.
He earned his M.A. in psychology at the University
of Northern Colorado and his Ph.D. in educational
psychology at the University of Washington.

ALVA M. LUMPKIN III is a research engineer with the
engineering experiment station at the Georgia Institute
of Technology in Atlanta.

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity has appointed JEFFREY
B. SPENCE governor of district four, which includes
Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia.

In September 1980, the Justice Department published
a special report on white-collar crime designed and
written by JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS JR., associate director
of the office of policy and management analysis. The
report described for the first time national priorities
for the investigation and prosecution of white-collar

crime. Tompkins has been working on the report
since he joined the criminal division of the Justice
Department in 1979. He had been an associate for
four years with the Washington firm of Sidley and
Austin. Tompkins’ efforts were recognized as one of
the *‘31 Success Stories of 1980’’ in the December
1980 issue of The American Lawyer.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM G. ARNOT III, a
son, William Guy IV, on July 15, 1979, in Abilene,
Texas. Arnot is a partner in the law firm of Wagstaff,
Harrell, Alvis, Batjer, Stubbeman & Seamster.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK B. BAZZEL, a son,
Frank Bledsoe Jr., on May 9, 1980, in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. EVERETT TUCKER III, a son,
Everett Clarke, on Jan. 20, 1981. Tucker is vice
president of the Commercial National Bank in Little
Rock, Ark.

MAJ. JOSEPH E. CARROLL is the staff judge advocate
at the Myrtle Beach, S.C., Air Force Base. He and
his wife recently adopted two children, Kristy, 6, and
Joey, 5.

JAMES S. DAvIs is a data communications systems
analyst with NCR Comten, Inc. He performs network
analysis and design for customers with IBM-com-
patible computer systems. Davis also assists in estab-
lishing and applying marketing strategy for major
customers.

BERNARD C. Gricspy II has been elected a vice
president of Kidder-Peabody and Co., investment
bankers. He is a senior government bond trader.
Grigsby and his wife, Carol, live in New York.

ROBERT M. TURNBULL has been appointed vice
president for sales of the Duplex Envelope Co., a
division of Hammermill Paper Co. in Richmond.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY C. BurRRIS, a son,
Noah, on April 21, 1980, in Indianapolis. Burris is a
partner in the law firm of Burris and Gross, serves as
part-time prosecutor for Marion County, and is a
part-time instructor in real estate at Indiana Univer-
sity.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN W. FoLsom, ason, John
Anderson, on Jan. 6, 1981, in Columbia, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, a
son, Roswell Bratton, on Oct. 8, 1980, in Shreveport.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS E. Myers III, a
daughter, Peyton Lloyd, on Dec. 23, 1980. The family
lives in Charlotte, N.C., where Myers is with the
insurance firm of McPhail, Bray, Murphy and Allen,
Inc. He was formerly with the accounting firm of
Deloitte, Haskins & Sells.

GaTESs G. BRELSFORD works in corporate auditing for

Houston Oil and Minerals Corp., which has just
merged with Tenneco, Inc. He lives in Houston.

GEORGE E. CaLvert Jr. is working in Richmond as
assistant state treasurer. He is responsible for fi-
nancing state and local government bonds.

Dr. JOHN H. Dumas II is in the private practice of
internal medicine in Birmingham. He and his wife
have two children, John III, and Mary Caroline.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER is a systems engineer for
IBM in Rochester. He specializes in design and im-
plementation of special applications for small and
medium sized businesses.

RICHARD S. MANDELSON is practicing labor law as a
partner in the Denver firm of Jones, Micklejohn,
Kehl and Lyons.

On Oct. 1, 1980, JoHN A. STEINHAUER joined Fi-
nancial Planning Services in Dallas. He was elected
vice president for training of the North Texas chapter
of the International Association of Financial Planners
and teaches a federal income tax course for that
group. In the fall semester, he taught introductory
accounting at Northlake Junior College in Dallas.

JACK V. H. WHIPPLE is manager of the Wherehouse,
a record store in Los Angeles that is part of the second
largest record retailing chain in the country.

1974
MARRIAGE: R. PALMER TRICE and Lynne Czarnecki
on March 24, 1979. Trice is in his second year as area
director for Young Life in Charlotte, N.C. His wife is
also on the Young Life staff.

MARRIAGE: R. N. WADDELL III and Gail Brooke
Loehnert on Oct. 25, 1980. Waddell is now an officer
of Bank One of Columbus (Ohio) N.A.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davip C. CAMPBELL Jr., a
daughter, Mary Hannah, on Oct. 27, 1980, in Hous-
ton. She joins a brother, David III, born Feb. 8, 1979.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL W. CHAMBLISS, a
daughter, Mary Margaret, on May 14, 1980, in Bir-
mingham. Chambliss is marketing manager and ex-
port sales manager for Mason Corp., a manufacturer
of aluminum building products.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Francis J. CRILLEy III, a
son, Francis Joseph IV, in Hanover, Pa.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. E. J. (Skip) LICHTFuss, a son,
Jeffrey William, on Jan. 15, 1981. Lichtfuss is an
account executive with the firm of Thomson Mc-
Kinnon Securities, Inc., of Baltimore, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert M. RAINEY, a son,
Weston McElwee, on Aug. 5, 1980, in Anderson,
S.C. Rainey is a project engineer for Environmental
Dynamics, Inc., in Greenville.

VicTOR A. BARNES is at Stanford completing his

29

CLASS NOTES

course work and dissertation proposal. He plans to do
research in East Africa. During the past summer,
Barnes was at the Department of Education in Wash-
ington. While there he worked on a proposal to re-
quire school systems to provide equal educational
opportunity for students whose primary language is
not English.

CHRISTOPHER P. CAVALIER is corporate credit man-
ager for Collins Food International in Marina Del
Rey, Calif. He is an M.B.A. candidate at Loyola
University in Los Angeles and lives in Venice.

STEPHEN ELKINS has joined the tax department of
Gulf Oil Corp. in Pittsburgh. He specializes in foreign
corporate tax planning.

Capt. DAvID V. FINNELL is operations officer of the
90th Personnel and Administration Battalion in Kai-
serslautern, Germany. In June 1981, he will complete
his three-year overseas tour and expects to attend an
advanced branch school at Fort Benjamin Harrison,
Indiana.

JULIAN S. FULCHER III is a qualifying member of the
Million Dollar Round Table for life insurance agents
and was named an Outstanding Young Man of
America by a Montgomery, Ala., organization that
recognizes personal and professional achievements.
He is an agent for Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. in
Roanoke.

NEIL D. LUTINS received a Morehead Fellowship and
will enter the post-graduate program in periodontics
at the University of North Carolina as soon as he
completes his tour of duty with the Air Force.

WILLIAM F. RIENHOFF IV is manager of the Towson
branch office of Baker, Watts and Co., investment
bankers. He married the former Susannah Harrison in
the fall of 1979.

CHARLES E. TAYLor received his law degree from
the University of Virginia in May 1979. He is asso-
ciated with the Washington firm of Silverstein and
Mullens which specializes in tax law.

JONATHAN H. WEIGLE has been promoted to vice
president of Swan Engineering and Machine Co.,
manufacturers of tools, dies and fixtures for the
metalworking industry in Bettendorf, Iowa.

1975

MARRIAGE: Ranpy L. FLINK and Ann Paige Harris
on July 12, 1980, in Tullahoma, Tenn. Classmates
attending were Samuel R. Lewis, Charles E. Alex-
ander, Kenneth M. Levi and Mitchel J. Seleznick;
Reid H. Griffin, °77, Louis B. Hackerman, ’77, and
Solomon G. Brotman, ’76. Flink is an officer in the
international banking group of First National Bank in
Dallas.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. PETER J. SCHNEIDER, a son,
Paul Christopher, on Dec. 14, 1980, in Charlottes-

30

ville. Schneider earned his Ph.D. in anatomy from
the University of Virginia in August 1979 and is now
a second-year medical student there.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES E. TOLER JR., a son,
Jonathan Isaac, on Aug. 29, 1980, in Riverside, R.I.

BENJAMIN L. BAILEY, after graduation from Harvard
Law School in June 1980, has moved back to his
home state of West Virginia where he is law clerk to
U.S. District Court Judge John T. Copenhaver Jr., in
Charleston.

JOHN D. KILLPACK is an account executive for Marcus
Advertising in Cleveland. The firm specializes in
broadcast advertising for a variety of regional and
national retail and consumer accounts.

CHARLES B. Tomm (See 1968.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM E. THOMPSON IV, a
daughter, Noel Atkins, on Dec. 11, 1980, in Balti-
more.

RICHARD A. HOOKER is developing a labor law spec-
ialty in his practice with Schmidt, Howlett in Grand
Rapids, Mich. He and his wife, Jan, have two chil-
dren, Gillian, 3, and Andrew, 1.

ROBERT C. KELLY is associated with the law firm of
Robinson, McFadden, Moore, Pope and Stubbs in
Columbia, S.C., after spending a year as a clerk for a
federal district judge.

W. HOWELL Morrison was a clerk for a federal
judge in Charleston, S.C., and is now with the U.S.
Attorney’s office there.

JULIAN J. NEXSEN JR. is an associate with the law
firm of Nexsen, Pruet, Jacobs and Pollard in Colum-
bia, S.C.

JOHN G. PopGaJny is working with Don Berlin, ’77,
as a placement representative at Airco Technical In-
stitute in Philadelphia.

CaPT. ROBERT D. PRoPST is commander of the head-
quarters battery of the Ist Battalion, 35th Field Ar-
tillery at Fort Stewart, Ga. His unit has recently
completed a month of desert training at Fort Irwin,
Calif.

STEVEN K. ROBERTS will exhibit prints and paintings
at the Foxhall Gallery of Foxhall Square in Washing-
ton, D.C., in February 1981.

On Oct. 1, 1980, ROBERT F. SEARLES was promoted
to captain in the U.S. Army. He is stationed in
Aschaffenburg, Germany, where he is chemical of-
ficer for the 1-4 Infantry.

1977

JOHN L. JACKLEY is executive vice president of Fin-
gerhut-Granados Opinion Research, a national polling

and market research firm, and the Democratic Victory
Group Associates, a political consulting firm. Both
firms are located in Washington, D.C. Jackley was
the author of the U.S. Department of Labor study on
occupational exposure to asbestos in the spring of
1980. He conducted the polling and designed the
campaign strategy that helped defeat Proposition 9 in
California in the fall.

WILLIAM M. WATSON graduated from the University
of Virginia Law School in May 1980. He is a clerk for
U.S. District Court Judge James H. Hancock of
Northern Alabama. In August 1981, Watson will
become an associate with the Richmond law firm of
McGuire, Woods and Battle.

1978

MARRIAGE: KENNETH J. Bewick and Elizabeth
Johnstone on Nov. 29, 1980. Glen Miller, ’78, was
best man. Classmates Arthur J. May, Edwin Wright,
and Charles Lee Ginsburgh, ’77, were among the
ushers. Classmates attending were Thomas O’Hara,
Henry Hauptfuhrer, Jeff Bird and Curt Sharp; Frank
Porter, °73; R. Leigh Frackelton, ’74; William T.
Driscoll III, ’°76; Ted Uhlman, ’77; Gray Coleman
and Grant Leister, ’79. Lt. Bewick is stationed in
Kitzingen, Germany.

MARRIAGE: SPENCER K. NEALE Jr. and Connie
Elizabeth Jones on Oct. 18, 1980, in Gordonsville,
Va. Among the wedding party were classmates Jay
Sindler, Charlie Steiff, and Plater Robinson.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH C. BARNHART, a
daughter, Devon Daley, on April 27, 1980, in Titus-
ville, Pa. Barnhart has formed the law partnership of
Altomare and Barnhart with offices in Titusville and
Tionesta.

Following two years of work in Fort Worth, JERRY
M. BaiIrD is a first-year student at Harvard Business
School.

MakRK E. BENNETT is a Senior at the John Marshall
Law School in Chicago. He is a research assistant for
a professor and participated in a jury study project.

EDWARD A. BURGESS is a publishers’ representative
with Collinson, Holmes and Associates, Inc. He sells
advertising space for several trade journals and spec-
ialty consumer magazines throughout the Southeast.
Burgess lives in Stone Mountain, Ga.

MICHAEL K. CAMERON will graduate from Wake
Forest University School of Law in May 1981 and
enter the Army JAG Corps in August.

RODNEY M. Cook Jr. has worked for Guardian Life
since the summer of 1978.

WILLIAM O. CRANSHAW expects to complete his
M.B.A. this spring at the University of Rochester.

GEORGE W. FalISsON Jr. is in his final year at Columbia
University’s Graduate School of Business.

 

In September 1980, WALTER GRANRUTH III was
promoted to assistant secretary at Irving Trust Co. in
New York.

G. CARTER GREER is a second-year student at the
University of Richmond’s T. C. Williams School of
Law.

Mary DePoy HArrIS is now associated with the
Chicago law firm of Gardner, Carton and Douglas.

K. LEE Howarp II resigned as news editor of the
Danville Register and took a reporting job in Septem-
ber 1979 for The Day Newspaper in New London,
Conn. He lives in Old Lyme where he has already
won the town tennis tournament.

MICHAEL K. JACKSON is included in the 1980-81
edition of Who’s Who Among Black Americans. In
addition to serving as assistant commonwealth’s at-
torney for Henrico County, he became commander of
Company D in the 80th Training Division of the U.S.
Army Reserve in September.

J. MICHAEL JARDINE graduated from the University
of Washington in 1978 with a major in Chinese and
East Asian geography. He now lives in Hong Kong
where he works in the China Trading Division of
Jardine, Matheson and Co.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR. is a first-year student at Ford-
ham University Law School in New York.

O. WARREN Mowry is a senior at the University of
South Carolina School of Law in Columbia.

CHARLES R. PLITT is associated with Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Co. in Dallas.

GEORGE M. (SCOOTER) SMITH is still with Rotan
Mosle, Inc., in Houston, Texas, and is currently
studying for his certified financial planning license.

RICHARD W. STEWART is working in the national
division of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New
York.

ROBERT B. TREMBLAY is sports editor, reporter,
feature writer and photographer for a weekly news-
paper, the Townsman in Wellesley, Mass.

JAMES N. WALTER JR. is editor-in-chief of the Ala-
bama Law Review and will graduate from the Univer-
sity of Alabama Law School in May. He will be a
clerk for Federal District Judge Truman Hobbs in
Montgomery.

1979

BIRTH: JAMES T. ADAMS Jr., a son, James Adams
II, on July 10, 1980. Adams is a survey archaeologist
at W&L.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. PETER RICHARDSON, a son,
John Michael on Dec. 24, 1980, in Bluefield, W.Va.
Richardson is associated with the law firm of Rich-
ardson, Kemper, Hancock and Davis.

 

 

ALUMNI-VARSITY SOCCER MATCH

The annual Alumni-Varsity Soccer Match will be played at 2 p.m.,
Saturday, May 9 on Wilson Field. The game coincides with
Alumni Weekend. All soccer alumni are invited to participate.
Write Coach Rolf Piranian for further information.

 

 

CARL K. FOLCIK is employed by SEGO International,
a management consulting firm based in Niagara Falls,
Ontario. His.current project is at the International
Nickel Co. in Port Colborne, Ontario.

ROBERT S. Gis III will complete his graduate work

in international affairs at the University of Pittsburgh

in May 1981. |

JOHN T. JESSEE is associated with the Roanoke law
firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker and Thornton.
He had been a clerk for Judge John A. Field Jr. of the
4th Circuit Court of Appeals.

STEPHEN Y. MCGEHEE spent two months on a special
bank assignment in Los Angeles at the loan production
office of the First National Bank of Boston.

WILLIAM R. MEYER Is a second-year student at the
University of Virginia Medical School. He plays on
the water polo team and works at the Childrens’
Hospital Rehabilitation Center.

DavipD M. PERSSON teaches seventh grade general
science and coaches freshman basketball and girls’
tennis at Hampton Roads Academy. He will attend
Eastern Virginia Medical School in July.

Lr. Cartos C. SOLARI is stationed in Karlsruhe,
Germany, as an assistant staff officer with the 72nd
Signal Battalion.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK spent a year in the Mediter-
ranean as crew and teacher to 84 teenage students
aboard the Quest, a three-masted schooner. He is
now in New York as a management trainee in the real
estate division of Chemical Bank.

LLoyD E. SPEAR is city attorney for Tollesboro, Ky.,
and public defender for Lewis and Greenup counties.

Ltr. MARK S. TRAVERS is a company executive officer
in the 54th Infantry stationed at Fort Knox, Ky. His
unit will be stationed in Alaska in March and April for
extensive winter training exercises.

1980

JEAN L. BAXTER is an assistant public defender in
Roanoke, Va.

J. BURKHARDT BEALE is now practicing law in Rich-
mond, Va., with Willis F. Hutchens.

Betsy M. CALLICOTT is associated with the Nashville
law firm of Waller, Lansden, Dortch and Davis.

WALTON V. CLARK started work in January in the
training program of Bozell and Jacobs, an advertising
agency in New York.

KEVIN W. CROOKHAM is 2 real estate associate with
the firm of Better Homes and Gardens in West Palm
Beach, Fla.

WELLINGTON GODDIN Jr. has completed the infantry
officer basic course and ranger school. He is now a

platoon leader in the 101st Airborne Division at Fort
Campbell, Ky.

CHARLES W. HUNDLEY is a hearing examiner for the
State Corporation Commission of Virginia. He lives
in Richmond.

HUGH MONTGOMERY spent the summer of 1980 at
the Art Institute of Philadelphia pursuing a career in
graphic design. In January 1981 he transferred to the
School of Visual Arts in New York City.

NEIL T. PENTIFALLO is completing the first half of his
training as a procurement analyst for C. E. Lummus.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1908

JAMES MATTHEW GODWIN, a mining engineer in the
development of the Pocahontas coal fields of Virginia
and West Virginia, died during the summer of 1980
in Bluefield, W.Va.

1916

EDWARD WOLFE DEARMON, who retired in 1953
from the public buildings division of the General
Services Administration, died Jan. 28, 1980. He
joined GSA in 1926 and became an associate
architect, assigned to checking contract drawings for
federal buildings. Prior to his joining GSA, DeArmon
was involved in the design of many public schools in
North Carolina and Georgia. During World War I
DeArmon saw service with the Signal Corps in the
A.E.F.

1924

CHARLES M. HARRELL, chairman of the board and
retired president of Bluefield (W. Va.) Hardware and
Distributing Co., died in Richmond, Va., on Jan. 4,
1981. He had been vice president of Bluefield State
College. Harrell retired as president of Bluefield
Hardware in 1967 and moved to Richmond in 1970.

1926

Dr. HENRY LEE, retired chief-of-surgery at the Roa-
noke Memorial Hospital, died Dec. 23, 1980, after a
long illness. A graduate of Johns Hopkins Medical
School, he established a private surgical practice in
Roanoke in 1936 and later joined the staff of Roanoke
Memorial. Lee served with the 110th Army Hospital
Unit in Europe during World War II. He was active in
the planning that led to the establishment of the
Franklin Memorial Hospital at Rocky Mount, Va., in
1952 and served as a member of its medical staff and
board of trustees. He retired from Roanoke Memorial
Hospital and private practice in 1974 and worked as
an adjudication officer with the Veterans Administra-
tion Regional Office in Roanoke until 1979. He was a
member of the Virginia Surgical Society, the Ameri-

31

IN MEMORIAM

can Medical Association and Roanoke Academy of
Medicine.

1930

Marcus H. CouEN 8r., president of Wolff & Marx,
Inc., a department store in Los Altos, Calif., died in
November 1980. He had been in the retailing business
for over 40 years. During World War II, Cohen was a
major in the Air Corp and served in the Pacific and
South Pacific Theaters.

1931

ALLIE CROCKETT CONWAY, an attorney, died Dec.
16, 1980, in Lexington, Ky., after a long illness. A
senior member of the Bath County Bar Association,
Conway retired in December 1979. He was Bath
County attorney for eight years and master commis-
sioner of the Bath County Circuit Court for more than
20 years. He was president of the Citizens Bank in
Sharpsburg and was also affiliated with the Kentucky
King Tobacco Warehouse. Conway was a member of
the Omicron Delta Kappa at W&L and a charter
member of the ODK chapter at Vanderbilt University,
which he helped establish while attending law school
there.

1932

STUART LEE CRENSHAW B8R., retired director of de-
linquent taxes for the Commonwealth of Virginia,
died Jan. 19, 1981. He joined the Virginia Depart-
ment of Taxation in April 1958 and retired in 1972.
Crenshaw had also worked for the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service for 14 years and was a regional
representative for the Federal National Mortgage
Association. Crenshaw practiced law in Richmond
from 1932 until he was appointed executive assistant
to the state director of the Federal Housing Admini-
stration in 1934.

WILLIAM WHITE, formerly of Martinsburg, W.Va.,
died Jan. 1, 1981, at his home in Perry, N.Y. White
had been owner and operator of White Department
Stores. He served as a lieutenant in the Navy in the
Pacific Theater during World War II.

1936

Wooprow WILSON GREGORY of Kershaw, S.C.,
died July 7, 1980. He was in the automobile dealership
business for many years.

1937

KENT ForsTER, professor emeritus of European his-
tory and former head of the history department at
Pennsylvania State University, died Jan. 9, 1981, in
State College, Pa. Forster had retired from teaching
on June 29, 1980. He had been head of the history
department since 1970 and was an active participant
in academic and campus affairs.

194]

GEORGE BIGGER KERR, a prominent business and
civic leader in Bennettsville, S.C., died Jan. 7, 1981.

SZ

During World War II Kerr was a volunteer front line
ambulance driver with the American Field Service in
the European Theater and was decorated for his serv-
ices by the Belgium and French governments. In
1948 he and his wife, the former Alexa McColl,
moved to Bennettsville and he became associated
with McColl Realty Co. and its farming interests. For
many years he was president of that corporation. Kerr
was founder and president of George B. Kerr, Inc., a
corporation dealing in grain, soybeans, cattle and
general farming. A trustee of Marlboro General Hos-

pital since 1958, he served terms as chairman of the
board and chairman of its building and executive
committees. Kerr was a member of the Carolina-
Virginia Grain Dealers Association and a former
member of its board of directors.

1950

EUGENE FRANK BLANKENBICKER, an employee of
alloy sales division of Republic Steel Corp., died Jan.
14, 1981 in Massillon, Ohio.

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Arkansas—William F. Rector Jr., ’70, 506 N. Elm St., Little Rock,
Ark. 72205

Atlanta—Madison F. Cole Jr., ’71, Johnson & Higgins, 17th Floor,
Trust Co. Bank Tower, Atlanta, Ga. 30303

Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—Joseph C. Wich Jr., 69, Cook, Howard, Downes &
Tracy, P. O. Box 5517, Towson, Md. 21204
Birmingham—Charles D. Perry Jr., ’73, Dean Witter Reynolds, 417
North 20th St., Suite 700, Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank of
Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, S.C.—Rutherford P. C. Smith, ’68, ’74L, Furman,
Jenkins & Buist, P.O. Box 10867, Charleston, S.C. 29411
Charleston, W.Va.—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, ’68L, P.O. Box
2791, Charleston, W. Va. 25330

Charlotte—Henry A. Harkey, ’71, 1428 Cavendish Ct., Charlotte,
N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., ’69, ’72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg.,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite S000, Chicago, II. 60603
Cincinnati—Smith Hickenlooper III, ’64, Bartlett & Co., 120 E.
Fourth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 ;
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—James B. Crawford III, 67, ’72L, P.O. Box
711, Charles Town, W.Va. 25414

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., ’61, P.O. Box 344-108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, °75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—James M. Slay Jr., 65, ’°71L, Henry, Hairston & Price,
P.O. Box 838, Easton, Md. 21601

Detroit—James W. Large, ’68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, °73L, 113 Clay Avenue,
Lexington, Ky. 40502

Eastern North Carolina—Mike E. Miles, °68, 401 Yorktown,
Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, ’73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., "58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., °64, 11847 Memorial Dr.,
Houston, Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Harold H. Catlin, ’71, Howell, Howell, Liles,
Braddock & Milton, 901 Blackstone Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ’71, U.S. Engineering Co., 3433
Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., ’41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Walter B. Potter, 48, 2529 Link Road, Lynchburg, Va.
24503

Mid-South—Fred M. Ridolphi Jr., ’64, 4735 Normandy Rd.,
Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Middle Tennessee—Richard F. Cummins, ’59, 1225 Chickering Rd.,
Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile-McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Alan D. Frazer, ’72, 23 Bacon St., Bedford, Mass.
01730

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, ’68, 200 Carondelet St., New
Orleans, La. 70130

New York—Paul W. Perkins, ’74, The Chase Manhattan Bank, 1
Chase Manhattan Plaza, 34th Floor, Real Estate Finance, New York,
N.Y. 10081

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, °61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, Route 1, Box 236,
Shreveport, La. 71115

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, 66, Abbott & McMurry, 414
Park/Harvey Center, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 129 Le Hane
Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—Claude M. Walker Jr., ’71, Standard Warehouse Inc.,
P.O. Box 5263, Columbia, S.C. 29250

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, ’52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., °63, Suite 250, 222 S. Tarragona,
Pensacola, Fla. 32573

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, °70, 35 Langston Lane, Media,
Pa. 19063

Philadelphia—Bruce C. Lee, ’71, Dept. of Justice, 133 N. 5th St.,
Allentown, Pa. 18103

Piedmont—John A. Cocklereece Jr., ’76, ’79L, Womble Carlyle
Sandridge & Rice, Wachovia Bldg., Suite 2400, Winston-Salem, N.C.
27102

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, 56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—David D. Redmond, ’66, 7617 Hollins Road, Richmond,
Va. 23229

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., 67, ’71L, 2913 Lockridge Rd.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, ’59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., °66, 19 Topton Way, St.
Louis, Mo. 63105

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, ’71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205

San Diego—John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, Suite 1205, Bank of
California Bldg., First and A, San Diego, Calif. 92101
Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, ’73, The Equitable Life Assurance
Society, 1015 Berryville Ave., Suite 3, Winchester, Va. 22601
South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ’74, P.O. Box
695, Greenville, S.C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, ’53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southside Virginia—Robert T. Vaughan, ’79L, Meade, Tate &
Daniel, P.O. Box 720, Danville, Va. 24541

Tidewater—Howard W. Martin, ’64, 1335 Armistead Bridge Rd.,
Norfolk, Va. 23507

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’°69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25701

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, ’78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla. 74104
Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, °’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Thomas L. Howard, ’68, Colton & Boykin, 1133 15th
St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005

Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, ’53, 108 Inwood Rd.,
Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abilene,
Texas 79605

Wisconsin—David R. Braun, ’76, The Travelers-LHFS, 711 East
Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Wisc. 53202

 

 

 

Apr.

Apr.
Apr.
May

Spring Sports Schedule

Lacrosse

7—Mt. Washington
15—New Hampshire
21—N.C. State
28—Towson State

1—Delaware
14—William & Mary
18—Virginia
25—Washington College
29—Baltimore

2—Roanoke
10—North Carolina
16—U.M.B.C.
20—NCAA Quarterfinals
23—NCAA Semifinals
30—NCAA Finals

Baseball

. 13-14—West Virginia Tech

18—Longwood
20—Lynchburg
21—Emory & Henry
24—Randolph-Macon
25—Lock Haven State
26—Bridgewater
28—Maryville
30—Colgate
14—Hampden-Sydney
16—Eastern Mennonite
17—North Carolina Wesleyan
21—Lynchburg
22—Bridgewater

. 25-26—ODAC Tournament

27—Newport News
28—Longwood
2—V.M.I.

Tennis

8—Charleston
13—W. Chester St.
14—Rochester
16—Lynchburg
20—California St. (Pa.)
21—Davidson
22—E. Tennessee St.
23—Richmond
24—V.M.I.

HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
TBA
TBA

Princeton

HOME
Away
Away

HOME
Away

HOME

HOME
Away

HOME

HOME

HOME

HOME

HOME
Away

Lynchburg

HOME
HOME
Away

HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME

Away

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

25—Radford
26—Greensboro
28—Hampton Institute
29—Brown
30—Roanoke
31—James Madison
1—Hampden-Sydney
13—Emory
14—Central Florida
16—Rollins
17—Flagler
18—Florida
20—Maryland

Apr. 24-25—ODAC

Apr.

 

Apr.

Apr.
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

Apr.
May

27—Virginia

1-2—W&L Invitational
4—Radford
8—Virginia Tech

Track & Field

14—Davidson

21—Richmond Relays

27—Emory & Henry,
Newport News

3 1—Christopher Newport, Eastern

Mennonite, Mary
Washington
17—Lynchburg, Roanoke,

Eastern Mennonite
25—ODAC
1—Bridgewater

Golf
13—Rochester

16-17—NCAA District I Tournament

24— Bridgewater, Shepherd
27—Radford
17-18—Virginia Tech
20—ODAC Championship
24— Bluefield College,
Hampden-Sydney
27—Bluefield College,
Bluefield State
30—Bridgewater, Radford

HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME

HOME
Away

HOME

HOME

Lynchburg
Bridgewater

HOME

HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away

HOME

Away
Away

5—Randolph-Macon, Bridgewater Away
May 19-22—NCAA Division Il
Championships Greensboro, N.C.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

CL,

 

1
Li.
oe
pe
ee
sas
« & =.
“OO
xm
ff Y , Y la nl y/
EXPERIENCE CHINA
) IN SI) Bas LS)
16 DAYS WHOLE TOUR IS
LEAVING PERSONALLY
SEPT. 19, 1981 ESCORTED BY
$ per person SID KAPLAN, W&L
BITS ccsiiecee CLASS OF 1956.
SEATTLE DEPARTURE

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
presents (for members and their immediate
families) an unforgetable tour. . .Hong Kong and The
People’s Republic of China. . .16 days of history and
culture await you. . .from the moment your Northwest
Airlines 747 leaves Seattle (West coast departure takes
advantage of Group Savings) and wings to three

     

days in Hong Kong to 11 stimulating days
from Peking to Hangkow to Soochow to
Shanghai. . .English speaking guides, all meals in China,
deluxe hotel in Hong Kong and the best available in
China. All sightseeing is included in the price. Limited to

30 people. The China Experience, one never to be
forgotten.

FOR FREE DETAILED BROCHURE, CALL OR WRITE: SID KAPLAN, PRES., LAND SEA AIR TRAVEL
1228 EUCLID AVENUE ¢ CLEVELAND, OHIO 44115 OR PHONE (216)621-7910

 

 

037556 |;

a3229"

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

MAY 1981

 

 

 

SSO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CF

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 56, Number 3, May 1981

William C. Washburn, °40 ................ cece eee eee ee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna .............. cece eee ee eee es Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, "80 ............ cece eee e eee e eee Assistant Editor
Joyc@ Carter’)... csc c cece eee dee ete weeee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73 ..............c cece eee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Woods Creek Gap .............cceecceee eee eee eee eee 1
‘Electronic Judge” .............ccececeeeeeeeeeeeneee ene eaees 8
The Game .......0.0 cece edeccceeccceneccosnssssevmagmennagings 10
Phi Beta Kappa Convocation ..............:sseeeeeeeeeees 13
Drinking at W&L oo... cece cece eee renee eee ee es 14
From Mound to Munich ................:seeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 16
WEL Gazette ......... ccc ceeeeee sence eens ee 17
Chapter News ..............cscceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeen een en eee es 23
Class Notes. ......0:..0c00ceclesei:ase ee re 25
In Memoriam ..........5.3-2.-.4.000 32

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc. |

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD Batn, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, "42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
OwEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RuSSELL LADD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
Joun H. MCCorRMACK Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., 56, Crossett, Ark.

ON THE COVER: Washington Hall and Lewis Hall
linked by the Footbridge over Woods Creek—symbolic of
what some W&L observers perceive to be a widening gap
between the undergraduate school and the School of Law.
News Office Director Jeffery Hanna and Assistant Pub-
lications Director P. Craig Cornett, ’80, set out to
examine this issue from many angles. Their in-depth
report starts on Page 1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE WOODS CREEK GAP

How Wide is the Separation Between the Law School and the Undergraduate School?

IL, the fall of 1976, Washington and Lee’s School of
Law packed up its torts and its texts and moved, leaving the
cozy environs of Tucker Hall on W&L’s historic Colonnade
to take up residence in spacious, modern Lewis Hall.

The move created an obvious division—a physical one—
between the law school and the undergraduate school,
separated as they are by Woods Creek.

But now, five years after the move, some members of the
University community are concerned that this physical
separation has caused, or at least magnified, other divisions
and that there exist differences which simply cannot be
reconciled no matter how many footbridges span Woods
Creek to connect the schools.

Has there been a change? Or is it only imagined? Has the
relationship between the two schools been altered by the
relatively recent geographic separation? Or has there always
been an invisible, perhaps inevitable, line of demarcation? If,
as some argue, the relationship has changed, is that a

desirable change? And if it is not desirable, can anything be
done to reverse the trend? What will be the future relationship
between the law and undergraduate schools?

These questions are not necessarily new. Conversations
about a growing rift between the two schools has been heard
on both sides of Woods Creek for some time now. But the
issue rose to the surface in March when student leaders
addressed the questions, touching off a series of articles and
editorials in both the Ring-tum Phi, the undergraduate
newspaper, and its law school counterpart, the Law News.

There is, in the debate, some common ground. Virtually
everyone associated with Washington and Lee seems to
acknowledge that some separation between the undergraduate
and law schools not only exists, but is quite natural given the
different purposes and goals of the two schools.

Yet, there are those who contend that one of the
University’s distinctive traits is a certain sense of community
that pervades the campus. These are the people who not only

 

 

 

 

 

suggest the situation has changed, but also lament that change.

But is it really any different now from what it ever was?

William McC. Schildt, 64, ’68L, assistant dean of the
law school, says no.

‘‘There was no more interaction [between undergraduates
and law students] when I was in law school than there is
today,’’ says Schildt, speaking from the perspective of one
who attended W&L both as an undergraduate and a law
Student.

Andrew W. McThenia, ’58, ’63L, a professor of law who
addresses the question from the same perspective as Schildt,
agrees, saying: ‘‘People who think the separation is a ‘new’
thing are freezing history at a point in time when they were
here, the way things were. There was a separation then, it has
manifested itself in different ways, but there has always been
Separation.’’

And from that same perspective Robert E. R. Huntley,
"50, ’57L, president of the University and professor of law,
suggests: ‘‘Nostalgia has a way of visiting the past with a
rosy glow that never existed. There’s always been a
separation between the law and undergraduate students. There
was a Separation for me when I was a student. On the other
hand, for several reasons, separation is a greater fact now.”’

Why is the separation more apparent?

First and foremost, there is that geographic separation.
The move from Tucker Hall to Lewis Hall represents a move
of no more than 300 yards. In some respects, though, it might
as well have been 300 miles.

Law students simply do not need to come to the main
campus very often. The exceptions are meals in the dining
hall or co-op and use of the gymnasium. Also,
undergraduates find little need to cross the ravine to visit the
law school.

And it is not a situation limited to the respective student
bodies.

The move created an obvious division—a ‘‘Faculty interchange is not quite as great now as it has

. been,’’ admits Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the law school,
PY SICON VETERE ASCH ‘partly because it’s difficult for those of us in Lewis Hall to

 

 

 

undergraduate school, separated as they are go to the Alumni House every morning for coffee.”’

by Woods Creek. The footbridges are there, though. So the physical
separation, while a factor, is not the only change in the
relationship.

‘*The physical division has made the separation that has
always existed more evident,’’ says Schildt.

Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion, adds that ‘‘a
community—a sense of relating among human beings

 

‘“*People who think the separation is a ‘new’

thing are freezing history at a point in time when pursuing a common purpose—can be aided by spatial
they were here, the way things were. There proximity, but not generated by it.’’
was a separation then, it has manifested itself What, then, are the other changes, the other differences?

Some figures help explain: in 1957, there were 97
ae students in the School of Law while in 1980, four years after
separation. ”’ the move, the law school enrollment was 334—more than
Andrew W. McThenia, °58, *63L triple the number of 23 years earlier.
ee With the change in numbers has come an even more
dramatic change in the composition of the law school student
body.
For instance, the law class of 1959 had 29 graduates
representing eight states. By contrast, the law class of 1979

in different ways, but there has always been

 

|

 

 

 

had 115 graduates representing 25 states. Law students now
come from more undergraduate institutions than ever
before—144 different schools as opposed to just 79 in 1970.

All of this did not just happen, of course. The University
instituted a law admissions policy designed to make the law
school a strong national institution.

Joseph E. Ulrich, ’59, ’61L, professor of law, observes
that “‘when you decided to go out and recruit and bring in
people from all over the nation, you necessarily had a more
diverse group. The first year I was on the admissions
committee, we had about 250 applications, the great majority
from Washington and Lee and V.M.I. Over the next few
years, we had 1,300 to 1,500.’’

Starting in the 1976-77 admissions year, Washington and
Lee graduates were no longer given special consideration in
admission to the School of Law. Prior to that change,
Washington and Lee had been a seven-year program for many
students: four years for the bachelor’s degree with another
three for the law degree. Of the 185 students enrolled in the
law school in 1970, 46 (or almost 25 percent) had received
their undergraduate degrees from Washington and Lee. Ten
years later, that figure was 26 (or less than eight percent) out
of 334 law students.

The fact is, W&L undergraduates are no longer
encouraged to apply automatically to W&L’s law school.

‘‘The advice I give to an undergraduate is that if you’ve
been to Washington and Lee, an all-male institution in a
small town, for four years and you can get into a law school
as good or better than Washington and Lee, then go,’’ says
Michael A. Cappeto, director of career counseling and
placement for the undergraduate school and pre-law advisor.

Adds Ulrich: “‘My own impression is that for Washington
and Lee students [undergraduates] it’s better to go some place
else for law school.”’

The decline in the number of W&L undergraduates
strolling across the footbridge to Lewis Hall for their
postgraduate work has unquestionably contributed to
whatever division exists between the schools. Fewer law
students have ties to the undergraduate community.

Clearly, the law school has become a different institution
from what it was several years ago simply in terms of the
diversity of its student body.

That diversity involves more than the increasing number
of undergraduate schools represented in the law school. There
was a crucial turning point in 1972, for it was then that the
law school began admitting women. Without question, that
event had great impact on whatever gulf might have existed
between the two schools.

**With the addition of women, the law school becomes
more and more a socially distinct and self-sufficient
community,’’ says Lewis H. LaRue, ’59, professor of law.

The differences in the composition of the respective
student bodies do not stop there, either.

In any given year, about 20 to 25 percent of the law
students will be married—a figure far greater than that in the
undergraduate school. And, as another point of comparison,
the average age of the entering first year law student is
slightly over 23 as opposed to the average age of an entering

 

 

The move from Tucker Hall to Lewis Hall
represents a move of no more than 300 yards.
In some respects, though, it might as well have
have been 300 miles.

 

 

‘A community—a sense of relating among
human beings pursuing a common purpose—
can be aided by spatial proximity, but not

generated by it.’’

Louis W. Hodges
Professor of Religion

 

 

 

 

In 1957, there were 97 students in the School
of Law while in 1980, four years after the move,
the law school enrollment was 334—more than
triple the number of 23 years earlier.

 

 

‘“‘The advice I give to an undergraduate is that
if you’ ve been to Washington and Lee, an all-
male institution in a small town, for four years
and you can get into a law school as good

or better than Washington and Lee, then go.’

Michael A. Cappeto
Pre-law Advisor

 

 

 

W&L freshman—18. Too, more law students than ever are
entering law school after spending a year or more in the job
market.

With these striking changes in the law school student
body—the variety of undergraduate institutions represented,
the addition of women, the increase in the married student
population—t is little wonder the law students and
undergraduates find less common ground than in the past.

Says McThenia: *‘It’s not surprising to me that there is
not going to be a lot in common between a 42-year-old
woman who has returned to [law] school and an 18-year-old
freshman in college for the first ttme. They approach life
differently and have had different life experiences. And both
are now at Washington and Lee.”’

There are still other changes. Some observers note that
legal education—i.e., the way law students are forced to
perform—is also different now.

Huntley, for instance, says that ‘‘there is a likely
difference in the maturity and motivation of undergraduate
and law students, a difference that is endemic to the situation.
This has now been enhanced by the greater competition
among law students in any law school to excel. The
competition in law and in a tighter job market has increased
the unity that exists in the law school.

‘‘In the old days, it did not make a difference how well
you did in undergraduate or law school—not nearly the
difference it makes now. But now the greater competition for
satisfactory grades and good recommendations has increased
the professional competition among law students. Now law
students simply have to work a lot harder.’’

There are other, more visible, signs of the separation.

Access to support services, dining facilities in particular,
have added to the division. For many years, Washington and
Lee students were virtually forced to eat at fraternity houses
since there was no campus dining hall open to all students.
As a result, most law students began or continued an

affiliation with a fraternity—and thereby a relationship with

the undergraduates. The addition of a dining hall open to all
and other support services has lessened the fraternity
affiliations of law students.

For the past several years, the law school and
undergraduate school have operated under different academic
calendars. In 1970, the undergraduate school instituted its
new curriculum with an accompanying change in calendar—
two 12-week terms followed by one six-week term in the
spring. The law school curriculum, meantime, requires two
15-week terms. That means that while classes are in session
for 30 weeks at both schools, the two groups are only on
campus together for about 21 of those weeks, allowing for
varying holiday schedules and not counting pre-examination
reading days and examination weeks.

In 1979, for the first time, there were separate commence-
ment exercises for the two schools—again for very important
reasons. The undergraduate calendar requires that
commencement take place during the first week of June at a
time when law seniors would have been out of school for
about three weeks and in the middle of bar examination
review courses.

eee aeeeeeeee—s———o—~™m™m™—™"

 

~~

 

 

 

**Both schools have their own classes for good,
pedagogical reasons,’’ says Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of
students in the undergraduate school. ‘*But when both
undergraduate and law schools were on the same academic
calendar, there was a more natural congruence.’’

It is, perhaps, these differences in the calendar that fuel
some conflicts between the two student bodies.

For instance, when the undergraduate campus is on break
for certain vacations, some University support services are
not available to law students who are still in class. The dining
hall, for one important example, does not serve meals. The
infirmary operates under shortened hours. The swimming
pool closes because no lifeguards are available. This creates a
situation in which the law students feel slighted.

James F. Berl, ’81L, president of the Student Bar
Association (S.B.A.) summarizes that feeling when he says:
‘“The University seems to revolve totally around the
undergraduate campus.”’

Adds Daniel R. Collopy, ’81L, treasurer of the S.B.A.:
‘“We sometimes get the feeling that we’re being treated as
second-class citizens.”’

Samuel L. Flax, ’81L, a third-year law student, observes:
‘“Many law students feel that since they pay the same tuition
as undergraduates, they should be entitled to the same
University services. Most law students really don’t realize
that if this were an autonomous body of 350 students [in the
law school] they wouldn’t have these support services in the
first place.”’

Aside from these general complaints, there is the special
situation arising from the presence of women law students on
a campus with an all-male undergraduate population.

Malinda E. Dunn, ’81L, a third-year law student and law
representative to the University Council, speaks to that
question when she says that ‘‘the University was really
lacking in support services for the women law students until
recently. There are still special problems that women have
here that I’m not sure anyone recognizes.”’

There is also the matter of the structure of several
campus-wide governance committees. The University
Council, the official intermediary between the students and
the faculty and administration, is composed of 27 members.
Only three of those 27 are from the law school.

The Student Body Executive Committee, which is
responsible for administration of the Honor System and the
supervision of all campus student activities, is composed of
12 members and includes a designation for only two law
representatives. Although it is theoretically possible to have
five, it has never been more than three in recent years.

Law representatives are not consciously excluded from
either the University Council or the Executive Committee—or
from any other group, for that matter. But the law school is
unlikely to get a significantly strong voice in student affairs.

Some student body leaders point out that law students are
represented as much as they want to be.

Robert H. Willis Jr., ’81, a senior and president of the
student body, says: ‘“When the effort for better
communication is made, it seems to be made only by the
undergraduate side. And law students often say they don’t

 

 

‘With the addition of women, the law school
becomes more and more a socially distinct and

self-sufficient community.’’

Lewis H. LaRue, ’59
Professor of Law

 

 

‘“, . . the greater competition for satisfactory
grades and good recommendations has
increased the professional competition among
law students. Now law students simply have to

work a lot harder.’’

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L
President of the University and
Professor of Law

 

i

 

have enough representation, but every law student who
applied to a student body committee this year was accepted.”’

The Student Bar Association, the law school student
organization, regularly receives approximately 86 percent of
the student activity fees that law students pay for their non-
classroom activities. The remainder is used for general
student body functions, both undergraduate and law. Some
law students feel the S.B.A. should receive more; some
undergraduates think it should receive less.

‘*There are many people who advocate giving the S.B.A.
all of their student activity fees and letting them do with it as
they please,’’ says Eric T. Myers, ’82, a junior and president-
elect of the student body. ‘‘But that would probably make the
division between the two groups even more pronounced. ’’

Adds Willis: ‘‘We understand the differences in the needs
of law students, and we give them more freedom on spending
than we do with any other campus organization.’’

Perhaps the greatest issue in the division between the two
schools involves the Honor System. It is not a new problem.

Richard A. Denny, a 1952 graduate and president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association, addresses that issue
when he says that ‘‘the chief concern of many alumni
regarding the division is with the Honor System.’

And Flax, who is president of the University’s chapter of
Omicron Delta Kappa national honorary society, puts the
Situation in perspective: *‘There is a basic resentment among
law students regarding the Honor System. Many feel that, .
considering the composition of the Executive Committee,
they would not be judged by their peers in an honor hearing.
But I don’t think that most law students recognize the
intangible assets the honor system provides: free access to the
stacks in the law library, 24-hour access to the law school in
general, being able to leave your books in a carrel without
fear of having them disappear.”’

Adds Sara A. Burford, ’81L, secretary of S.B.A.: “‘In

‘<The U niversity seems to revolve totally around general, law students are very supportive of and believe in the

i Honor System.’’
the undergraduate campus. y
5 P The gulf between the schools, then, goes beyond the
James F. Berl, ’81L

Student Bar Association Presitieht obvious geographic separation. On that point, there seems
little question. The question that remains, though, is whether
the gulf can somehow be reduced; whether some new, though
less tangible footbridges can be constructed, and, most of all,
whether narrowing the gap is an important or even desirable
goal.

Some observers point to the relationship as it often exists

at other universities—one of coexistence rather than
ee community.
ini Association Milton Colvin, professor of politics, says: “‘I have a
special interest in the law school since my father taught there
for several years. I think maybe we should look more to the
relationship that exists between the undergraduate and law
schools at such institutions as Yale or the University of
Chicago—one of coexistence with only a board of trustees
and administration that serve both groups.’’

Says LaRue: ‘‘When I went to law school [at Harvard]
there was absolutely no mixing at all—to the mutual
satisfaction of both groups.’’

And Steinheimer adds: *"You can go to most any

 

 

 

 

‘‘The chief concern of many alumni regarding
the division is with the Honor System.”’

 

 

 

university campus and find that once persons enter a
professional school they take on a different identity—one that
is very different from that which they had as
undergraduates.’

On the other hand, some insist that a sense of community
is extremely important to Washington and Lee.

Willis says: “‘I believe that at any university, especially
Washington and Lee, there should be a sense of community
to bind the institution together. The extent of the unity is
what is up for debate.”’

Adds Hodges: ‘‘I’m not sure how much benefit there is by
having closer associations between the two groups. But the

} sense of community, among the entire University, may be a
distinctive feature of Washington and Lee.”’

And this from A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, Virginia

f Supreme Court Justice and a member of the University’s
Board of Trustees: ‘‘In view of present day circumstances, it
may not be possible to foster a sense of community. But the
[law student’s] degree does come from Washington and Lee
University, and I think that Washington and Lee as a whole
can benefit from an exchange between students who attended
other undergraduate institutions and Washington and Lee’s
undergraduates. ’”’

Finally, John offers this: ‘‘My personal view is that we
should have a close relationship and foster a sense of
community. But we should, at the same time, recognize the
clear differences between a professional law school and an
undergraduate school.’’

Law students do—and probably will continue to—
participate in campus affairs alongside undergraduates. Law
students are involved in the intramural athletic programs more
than ever. The guiding force of a major student musical
group, a group that includes as many undergraduates as law
students, is a law student. More law students than ever before
take their meals in the dining hall alongside undergraduates.
Law students take part in student organizations, such as the
‘*Contact’’ speaker forum, the Mock Convention, and the

 

 

“I believe that at any university, especially

Student Activities Board. The president of Omicron Delta Washington and Lee, there should be a sense of
Kappa, the national leadership society, is a law student. community to bind the institution together.

So the fact is, there are numerous law students The extent of the unity is what is up for debate.’’
participating in the affairs of the campus community—on Robert H. Willis Jr.. °81

both sides of Woods Creek. Student Body President
And out of that March flurry of discussions came several

proposals to further the interaction—proposals to merge the

outing clubs and yearbooks, for instance, and to encourage
more law school participation in University committees and

campus-wide events. . . . the relationship between the law school

Yet, it is apparent that the move from Tucker Hall to and the undergraduate school has settled about
Lewis Hall has accentuated a characteristic that was already ceo
where it is likely to remain, be that for better

present at Washington and Lee: the fact that the relationship
between these two very different groups of students and or for worse.
professors cohabiting the same campus is not the same as it
was just a few years ago.

Though there is little consensus on most of the issues,
there is one point on which most observers seem to agree—
the relationship between the law school and the undergraduate
school has settled about where it is likely to remain, be that
for better or for worse.

 

 

 

a

 

by Jeffery Hanna

‘ELECTRONIC JUDGE’

Video Tape System Returns an Instant Verdict on the Performance of W&L Law Students

While the debate over the presence of
cameras in the courtroom continues to rage
in many quarters, that question has become
academic (literally so) in the Moot
Courtroom of Lewis Hall.

There, the cameras are firmly in place,
recording every word and every gesture for
posterity—or at least until someone happens
to push the erase button on the video tape
recorder.

Last summer, the Lewis Hall Moot
Courtroom was equipped with an elaborate
closed-circuit television system which now
serves as the centerpiece of the Law School’s
extensive audio visual program.

Two remote control TV cameras, one
situated directly opposite the judge’s bench
and the other peeking out of a wall slightly
to the right of the bench, silently scan the
entire courtroom. The cameras are controlled
by a single engineer calling all the shots at an
impressive console in the control room which
is located in another part of the building.

With just a few educated flicks of the
wrist, the lone engineer can turn a trial
practice class into a TV show to rival Perry
Mason. Virtually every trick of the
technological trade is available, from split
screen to complete graphics. While one
camera zooms in on a defense attorney cross-
examining a witness, the other camera can be
used to superimpose the judge’s stern
countenance in a corner of the screen.

The new equipment has transformed the
Moot Courtroom into a mini-TV studio
capable of producing tapes that are vastly
superior to those that had come from the
previous system in which one manually
operated portable camera (with cameraman
attached) recorded from a single, unchanging
angle.

‘Most people who watch TV expect the
shots to be switched every so often,”’
explains Tom Williams, the Law School’s
media coordinator. ‘‘Having the two cameras
gives us the capability of making taped
proceedings more realistic in the sense of a
TV production. ”’

Questions of style aside though, perhaps
the major improvement in the system is that
the cameras do their work so unobtrusively,
keeping distractions inside the courtroom to a
bare minimum. In fact, except for the
occasional whir of a camera as it pivots for a

8

 

 

Moot Courtroom’ s unblinking
electronic eye at work

better view, there is no evidence that those
two unblinking, electronic eyes are
watching.

‘“We’ve always sacrificed quality for
staying out of the way in the classroom,”’
Williams observes. ‘‘But in the past we had
to have wires and cable stretched across the
floor and all the equipment in plain sight.
The new system has gotten us out of the
room.’’

And out of sight (more or less, anyway),
out of mind. The Allen Funt syndrome takes
over. Once the students forget they’re on
camera, the result is a more natural—yes,
even candid—performance.

Yet, for all the technological
advancement, what makes the Moot
Courtroom system all the more uncommon is
that it exists almost exclusively for teaching
purposes.

‘“We could, with this system, create
production quality tapes of the sort that some
schools produce to sell,’’ says Williams.
‘*But our media program is designed solely
for the benefit of the students, and I’m
unaware of another school with a system as
extensive as ours that is used only for the
students’ benefit.’’

Precisely how does such a closed-circuit
TV system benefit the aspiring attorneys?

Instant replays, what else? Or, at least,

almost-instant replays.

Suppose, for instance, a member of trial
practice class has spent two hours one
evening presenting a case to the jury.

Fifteen minutes after the verdict is in and
the class is out, the student can walk down to
the library, request the video tape of the
preceding proceedings, and watch the trial
from opening statement to closing argument
in a Study carrel specially equipped with a
video tape player. As a bonus, the student
can eavesdrop (by way of audio tape) on the
jury deliberations, thereby getting an insight
into which arguments succeeded or failed
and why.

‘It is a great advantage to be able to
critique your own performance on video
tape,’’ says Phil Calderone, a third-year law
student who is intimately familiar with the
system from both ends of the camera since he
is a Student assistant to the media program.

‘Not only do you pick out little things—
mannerisms, gestures, and the like—but you
also have the opportunity to examine the
arguments you’ve made. You constantly see
things you were unaware of. Occasionally,
you are reassured by something you see on
the tape—discovering that what you thought
you had done wrong was actually right.’’

The closed-circuit system in the Moot
Courtroom is used extensively in the Burks
Moot Court competition for first-year
students whose oral arguments are taped for
their self-examination and self-critiques. In
addition, visiting lecturers’ presentations are
taped and made available as a library
resource. The system will also be invaluable
when the Law School is host to the National
Institute of Trial Advocacy’s training
program for practicing lawyers in the
summer.

Cable Nine, the undergraduate television
station, has even gotten into the act, airing
tapes of practice trials from time to time.

The Moot Courtroom system, while the
most advanced and complete, is only part of
the overall media effort at the Law School.
Several portable video tape units are
constantly used in other contexts. Classes in
counseling and a seminar in labor
negotiations have found the technique
particularly helpful.

Professor Thomas L. Shaffer, who
teaches courses in counseling, sees several

 

player.

 

 

These photographs illustrate the instant replay capability of the Moot Courtroom. From top to bottom: Phil
Calderone, a third-year law student makes his presentation in front of the remote control camera; the
presentation is recorded in the control room where Lynn Wishart, associate librarian, handles the engineering
chores; moments later Calderone examines his performance in a study carrel equipped with a video tape

areas in which the video taped sessions are
beneficial.

‘“Usually, the students will see most of
the little things they are doing wrong—
fidgeting, saying ‘uh,’ speaking too fast. But
a review of the tapes also shows more subtle
things in a counseling session,’’ Shaffer
Says. ‘‘For instance, a student might find that
he has been too aggressive, or perhaps too
defensive, with a client.

‘‘Eventually we hope to get a remote
control system similar to that in the Moot
Courtroom installed in the office we use to
practice counseling. With a remote control
camera, everyone would forget about the
camera and the exchanges would be more
natural.”’

Another Law School professor, Mark
Grunewald, records virtually every session of
the labor law seminar he teaches and finds
that the video taping serves a dual purpose.

‘‘I do review tapes for the purpose of
pointing things out about the students’ style
in negotiations,’’ Grunewald says. ‘‘But the
taping also enables the students to carry on
the negotiations without my presence. I find
that they react differently when I am not in
the room. Some of the negotiation sessions
can go on for hours, so by taping I am able
to review sessions on a schedule that suits
me, :

At any given time, the reserve desk at the
Law School library has about 225 video
tapes which can be checked out along with a
set of head phones for viewing in one of the
special carrels. There are currently five carrels
equipped with video tape players but,
according to associate librarian Lynn
Wishart, there will soon be seven in use.

‘Of our 225 tapes, 60 are commercially
produced and were purchased for use as
library resources,’’ Wishart explains. ‘The
other 165 have all been produced here and
are constantly being recycled as we erase a
tape and use it over and over again.”’

Given the continuing advancements in
video technology, there is little doubt that
the Law School will find its system even
more useful in the future.

‘That is one of the best things about the
Moot Courtroom system,’’ says Williams.
“It’s all very good equipment and something
that, for our purposes, will never become
obsolete.’’

 

 

THE GAME

The weather was ideal. The Wilson Field stands were nearly
full. The game plan could not have been better.

All in all, it was a perfect setting for The Big Game. Almost
perfect, anyway. There was one slight snag: the final score.

The University of Virginia’s lacrosse team, ranked third in
the nation, built a 5-0 halftime lead, then staved off a strong
second half rally to spill the Generals, 9-6, in the annual battle
between the state’s oldest college lacrosse rivals.

A crowd of 5,250 turned out to watch the proceedings even
though the University was on spring vacation. These photo-
graphs are a sample of how it was.

 

yo

 

Hii

Virginia’ s Mike Caravana (15) is hounded by W&L’s Jim Herbert. Coach Jack Emmer exchanges pleasantries with one of the game officials.

10

Photographs by
Neil Sheehan, ’81, and Tami Teel

 

 

 

Hollins exchange student Nancy Hotchkiss and friend enjoy the game. W&L’s track team had a corner on the hot dog concession.

1]

 

 

THE GAME

12

tis

The fa

 

 

 

Stanley Fish, professor of English at
Johns Hopkins University and one of the
nation’s foremost authorities on the works of
John Milton, delivered the address at the
annual Phi Beta Kappa/Cincinnati Society
convocation on March 26 in Lee Chapel.

Thirty undergraduates were inducted into
Phi Beta Kappa this year along with seven
members of the Class of 1980, six of whom
returned to campus to participate in the
ceremonies.

Fish’s lecture, entitled ‘‘No Bias, No
Merit: The Political Structure of Literary
Studies,’’ was both a witty and provocative
discussion of literary criticism.

One of Fish’s major arguments was that
‘literary studies, far from being removed
from the activities of the marketplace, from
the world of politics and business, is a world
of politics and business in its own right and
should be so.’’

A 1959 graduate of the University of
Pennsylvania, Fish received his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from Yale University. He
taught at the University of California at
Berkeley before joining the Johns Hopkins
faculty in 1974.

Fish has been a Guggenheim Fellow and
a fellow of the American Council of Learned
Societies. He is a member of the Modern
Language Association, the Milton and
Spenser Societies, and the editorial boards of
Milton Quarterly and Milton Studies.

The author of several books, Fish wrote
what is considered by many in the field as
the most influential book on John Milton in
the last 30 years. It is entitled Surprised by
Sin: The Reader in Paradise Lost and
utilized a technique of literary criticism now
known as ‘‘reader response criticism.”’

Fish is also the author of Self Consuming
Artifacts, a study of 17th century literature;
his latest book is Js There a Text in This
Class?’’

Fish’s lecture was preceded by the
introduction of the Phi Beta Kappa inductees
who were:

William S. Ashe, senior chemistry major
from Columbia, S.C.; Douglas H. Barton,
1980 graduate with business administration
major from Annandale, Va.; Michael P.
Bernot, junior chemistry major from
Hampton, Va.; Clarke S. Bigler, senior
business administration major from
Trumbull, Conn.; Robert L. Brooke, senior
European history and French major from
Richmond, Va.

Winston W. Burks III, senior American
history major from Marvell, Ark.; J. Scott
Cardozo, senior European history and French
major from Richmond, Va.; W. Warren
Crowdus III, senior European history major
from Lake Forest, Ill.; W. Scott Dacus,

Milton Scholar
Addresses

Phi Beta Kappa;
37 Honored

junior biology major from Greenville, S.C..;
E. Steven Dummit III, senior chemistry and
art major from Sanford, N.C.

Thomas E. Dutton, 1980 graduate with
politics major from Mansfield, Ohio; Goetz
B. Eaton, 1980 graduate with German major
from Anderson, S.C.; R. Christopher
Gammon, senior business administration
major from Lynchburg, Va.; Clyde M. B.
Harkrader, junior American history major

 

Stanley F ish, PBK speaker

 

PBK President John Evans (right center) congratulates initiates.

from Mineral, Va.; Howard W. Herndon,
senior American history major from
Tallahassee, Fla.

Alfred R. Hintz, senior American history
and anthropology major from Lynbrook,
N.Y.; Scott T. Howell, junior chemistry
major from Colonial Heights, Va.; David B.
Irvin, senior politics major from Roanoke,
Va.; Gary A. Johnson, junior chemistry
major from Fairfax, Va.; Edward A.
Johnson, senior physics major from
Huntsville, Ala.; David Franklin Koogler, a
1980 graduate with a physics-engineering
major from Steeles Tavern, Va.

David H. Kuhn, senior mathematics
major from Naugatuck, Conn.; Lawrence J.
Loveridge, 1980 graduate with physics-
engineering major from Marshfield, Mass.;
A. William Mackie, senior politics major
from Chevy Chase, Md.; Brian J. Noonan,
Junior accounting major from Charlotte,
N.C.; E. Quinn Peeper, junior biology major
from Germantown, Tenn.

Edmund P. Perry, junior English major
from Birmingham, Ala.; G. Eric Plum,
junior chemistry and mathematics major from
Virginia Beach, Va.; Mark E. Robson, junior
chemistry and physics major from Austin,
Tex.; Thomas R. Salley III, 1980 graduate
with English major from Richmond, Va.;
Thomas M. Savage, senior interdepartmental
mathematics and science major from Irmo,
=.

Mark W. Scully, senior mathematics and
German major from Simsbury, Conn.;
Robert M. Waymouth, junior mathematics
major from New Milford, Conn.; David L.
Weaver Jr., 1980 graduate with chemistry
major from Metairie, La.; John A. Wells III,
junior biology major from Columbia, S.C.:;
J. Franklin Williams, junior accounting
major from Danville, Va.; R. Blake
Witherington, junior mathematics and French
major from Athens, Ga.

 

 

13

 

DRINKING AT W&L

Student Body Executive Committee’s Survey Provides Data on Use and Abuse of Alcohol

Citing its concern over the growing
problem of alcohol abuse among college
students throughout the nation, the Student
Body Executive Committee at Washington
and Lee commissioned a study of student
drinking habits at W&L in the fall of 1980.

The study, undertaken by Professor
William Buchanan’s class in social science
research methods, was based on a
questionnaire answered by 675 students—
about half the undergraduate student body.
Results of the study were released in March.

Among other findings, the report
concluded that students’ consumption of
alcohol varies considerably—from the 7.6
percent who said they do not drink at all to
11 percent who said they consume more than
25 drinks per week; that student drinking
patterns conform closely to their parents’
drinking patterns; that drinking is closely

 

associated with the social life at W&L; that
there exists some evidence that alcohol
consumption reduces academic performance
among heavier drinkers; and, that a
substantial number of students would
welcome the availability of non-alcoholic
beverages at social events. |

In response to the study, Lewis G. John,
dean of students, said that the findings
‘‘confirm my impressions’’ and ‘emphasize
the need to look for educational programs in
the area of alcohol abuse.”’

Eric T. Myers, the Executive
Committee’s junior representative and
president-elect of the Student Body for 1981-
82, had originally suggested that the study be
undertaken and that the University consider
starting an alcoholism-awareness program,
such as BACCHUS, a voluntary program
begun at Florida State University to inform

students about the use and abuse of alcohol.

H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen,
indicated that, starting next fall, the
University will provide information about
such programs and will give special training
in that area to the freshman dormitory
counselors.

The two-page questionnaire was handed
out to students during spring registration.

According to the study, the ‘‘average’’
student reports that he consumes about nine
beers, glasses of wine, or mixed drinks in the
course of an average school week. The
percentage of non-drinkers—7.6 percent—is
slightly lower than the 11 percent figure
found among other college students.

Perhaps the figure that causes more
concern than any other is the 11 percent who
indicated that they consume more than 25
alcoholic drinks of some kind per week.

According to both James W. Worth,
Washington and Lee’s counseling
psychologist, and Anne McThenia, a
counselor for Alcohol Services of
Rockbridge and Lexington, such a figure is
indicative of individuals bordering on an
alcohol problem. Both Worth and McThenia
also observed that the 11 percent figure is
close to the national average of those with
alcohol problems—one in eight who drink.

As for the connection between students’
and parents’ drinking habits, the study said
that the ‘‘vast majority’’ of students see
themselves and their parents as moderate
drinkers. There was a strong relationship

ie
_ between the students’ perception of their

fathers’ drinking and the students’ own
drinking. For instance, the majority of
students who do not drink said their fathers
seldom or never drink while the students who
reported drinking the most also perceived
their fathers as frequent or heavy drinkers.

The study’s conclusion that drinking is
‘‘almost entirely a social phenomenon,
occurring at group events’’ was based on
Statistics showing that the most common
situations in which drinking occurs are at
social events, on a date, or on Wednesday
nights when many parties regularly take
place.

The report indicated that those who do
not drink are less satisfied with the social life
at Washington and Lee than those who do.
Fifty-five percent of abstainers are
dissatisfied compared to only 24 percent of
all students.

Since a good deal of the social life
revolves around fraternities, it was not
surprising that fraternities are the locale for
much of the drinking. The study showed that
fraternity members drink significantly more
than non-fraternity members. Even students

who are not currently fraternity members, but

either used to be or plan to be members,
drink more than non-fraternity men.

One area of concern in the study was the
number of respondents—4 percent to 19
percent—who said they drink, at least
occasionally, in what may be considered
inappropriate circumstances: alone, while
studying, or in the morning. Only 2 percent
said they do so frequently, but Ms.
McThenia noted that drinking in such
circumstances usually occurs only in the

more advanced stages of an alcohol problem.
Another concern was the high number of
students who said they drink while driving—
12 percent said they do so frequently and 33
percent said occasionally. The authors of the
report attributed this response to drinking
associated with “‘road trips’’ to attend social
functions at neighboring women’s colleges.
The study was particularly interested in
the consequences of drinking, including any
relationship between drinking and
academics. According to the report, most of
the consequences are embarrassing or
uncomfortable, rather than serious, but ‘‘it is
apparent that drinking does have a damaging
effect on academic performance for a
substantial minority. . . .”” Sophomores,
who tend more than other classes to live in
fraternity houses, were most likely to have
their academic work affected by drinking.
Nearly 15 percent of those sophomores who

 

admitted to negative experiences from
drinking cited poor test scores as a
consequence.

The heavier drinkers also had the more
pronounced academic consequences. While
20 percent of all students frequently or
occasionally miss classes or appointments as
a result of drinking, this percentage climbs to
40 percent among the heaviest drinkers, and
they are also more likely to fail their classes.

Respondents to the questionnaire more
often cited more positive experiences from
drinking—i.e., ‘‘had a good time,”’’ ‘‘felt
more socially at ease,’’ ‘‘made new
friends.”’

Asked to rank reasons for drinking,
students checked most frequently that their
primary reason was ‘‘to celebrate.’’ Other
reasons in order of frequency were ‘‘to
relax,’’ “‘for the taste,’’ ‘‘to feel good,’’ and
least frequently ‘‘because others drink.’’ Ms.
McThenia said that many people might be
alarmed that some 20 percent said they drink
‘‘to feel good,’’ but she added that alcohol
counselors would not consider that
significant.

Since four out of every five students
always or frequently drink at social events,
the authors of the study asked whether such
social events are structured to encourage
drinking by those who would prefer not to.
Of all students questioned, 13 percent said
they would consume soft drinks rather than
alcohol if soft drinks were available at a
social event, and another 62 percent would
like to have the choice of soft or hard drinks.
That led Worth to observe that the lack of
opportunity for students to enjoy non-
alcoholic beverages adds to potential
drinking problems. Dean John noted that the
administration strongly advocates having soft
drinks and other alternative beverages
present at all University-wide parties and
social functions.

The students who conducted the survey
and wrote the report were J. Brooks Flippen,
a junior from Norfolk, Va.; Michael M.
Gregory, a sophomore from Richmond, Va.;
James E. Herbert, a senior from Winston-
Salem, N.C.; Eden Li, an exchange student
from Hong Kong; Thomas H. McCoy, a
senior from Boyce, Va.; Neil Sheehan, a
senior from Bloomington, Ind., and Mark
Torres, a junior from Norwich, Ct.

15

by Bill Millsaps

FROM MOUND TO MUNICH

In the Contest Between Academics and Athletics, Hachenburg Scores One for the Classroom

This article by Bill Millsaps, sports
editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch,
appeared in the April 19 edition of that
newspaper and is reprinted here with
permission.

The 1981 Washington and Lee baseball
brochure offers these comments from coach
Craig Jones on Rich Hachenburg, a junior
pitcher from Miramar, Fla.

‘“The veteran in our starting rotation and
proven competitor with strong arm, good
breaking pitches, nice mustache . . .’’ Jones
could have added, ‘‘and a clearly defined
sense of priorities.’’

During the Generals’ regular season,
Hachenburg appeared in seven games with a
2-3 won-lost record, 25 strikeouts in 30
innings and a 4.75 earned run average. The
numbers aren’t overpowering, but Jones was
looking forward to having them available
when W&L, for the first time in its baseball
annals, plays in the ODAC tournament next
weekend in Lynchburg.

Only Hachenburg won’t be in
Lynchburg. He’ll be in Munich. As in
Munich, Germany.

A German major at W&L, Hachenburg
long ago planned to take a six-week trip with
10 classmates and a W&L professor to what
amounts to the ‘‘old country’’ for
Hachenburg. His father was born in
Germany, and his grandmother, whom he
hasn’t seen since he was 7, still lives there.
So, this morning, around 5 o’clock, Prof.
Robert Youngblood and the 11 W&L
students will drive to Washington National
Airport, fly to Kennedy Airport in New York
and then transfer to a plane that will carry
them to Munich.

‘‘T wish there was some way I could
commute back and forth between Munich
and Lynchburg,”’ said Hachenburg. ‘‘I really
feel we can win the tournament.”’

Hachenburg has, however, much stronger
feelings about his academic work at W&L, a
school which gives no athletic scholarships
and therefore cannot bring pressure to bear
on athletes and resolve sports-studies
conflicts in such fashion.

‘It was a trip I had to take for my
major,’’ said Hachenburg, ‘‘and I wanted to
take it last year, but money was a problem.’’
So he rescheduled it for this spring, came up

16

 

with the necessary $1,200, and put his name
on the list.

At the beginning of last week, it didn’t

appear there would be any problem for
Hachenburg. The Generals faced four must-
win games and needed some outside help to
gain a berth in the tournament. So they won
four straight and got the outside help in the

 

 

Rich Hachenburg, 82, eyes another batter.
form of a Randolph-Macon victory over
Hampden-Sydney, one of the Generals’
competitors for the final berth in the ODAC
event.

‘‘If I were on scholarship at a Division I
school,’’ said Hachenburg, “‘I would have
thought a long time about doing this because
when you’re on scholarship, you’re

essentially being paid to play. The way it is
here, none of us is going to make the pros.
My days are numbered as an athlete, and I
know it.”’

When it comes to athletics, Hachenburg
has long had such a realistic outlook. As a
senior in high school, he stood ninth
academically in his class of 506 (““some of
my professors here would be amused by
that,’’ he said), and he had a choice: ‘‘go to
the University of Florida and be a Social
Security number to my professors, or come
to a small school where I could get a fine
education and play some baseball and
football.”’

The small school turned out to be W&L,
and Hachenburg hasn’t regretted his choice.
He’s lettered three years in baseball, and last
fall he was the Generals’ starting
quarterback.

When Hachenburg leaves today, he won’t
be returning to the W&L campus until fall
football practice. He’s already boxed the
clothes he won’t be taking to Germany and
sent them home to Florida by United Parcel
Service. But one essential item isn’t being
shipped back to Miramar. ‘‘I’ve deflated a
football and put it in my suitcase,’’ he said.
‘‘T hope I can find some people over there
willing to catch some passes.”’

The trip last six weeks and will be worth
six credit hours. After it’s over, Hachenburg
will remain in Germany for three more weeks
visiting family members. Then he’ll go back
to Miramar and, for the sixth straight
summer, be a counselor in the city’s
recreation system. After that job is done, it’s
back to Lexington and pre-season football
practice in mid-August.

For the immediate future, Hachenburg
hopes there is some way he can keep tabs on
what his teammates are doing in Lynchburg.
The best he’s been able to arrange so far is a
promise from W&L athletic publicist Ken
Ries that he’ll mail to Munich the stats from
all the rest of the Generals’ games, plus any
stories that appear in the papers.

“The rest of the guys on the team are sad
to see me leave,’’ said Hachenburg, ‘‘at least
I like to think so. And I’m sadder than
anybody else.

‘‘But I still feel a part of the team in the
tournament. I'll still be in the dugout. I did
my best this year. I think I contributed.”’

Se

Wr GAZETTE

$1 Million Scholarship Bequest; Student Helps Put Out the Blaze; ROTC Awards

 

 

$1-million bequest
endows scholarship

Washington and Lee University has
received a bequest of more than $1 million
from the estate of Egbert B. Doggett, a 1914
graduate of the University, for the creation of
an endowed honor scholarship.

The Egbert B. Doggett Scholarship
Endowment will fund scholarships that will
be awarded on the basis of academic merit,
strong traits of character, and financial need.

Mr. Doggett was a native of Danville,
Va., the son of Rev. William and Ellen
Bogue Doggett. He received the bachelor of
science degree in civil engineering from
W&L.

After working as an engineer for the city
of Philadelphia immediately following his
graduation from W&L, Mr. Doggett served
with the 603rd Engineers in the 5th Army
from July, 1918, through July, 1919.

Following the war, Mr. Doggett joined
the Bethlehem Steel Company in Bethlehem,
Pa., as an accountant. He worked for
Bethlehem Steel from 1920 until his
retirement in 1961, serving much of that time
as an actuary with the company’s pension
and relief plans. He died in October of 1978.

In announcing the University’s receipt of
Mr. Doggett’s generous gift, which totals
$1,059,829, Washington and Lee University
president Robert E. R. Huntley said: “‘Mr.
Doggett’s years at Washington and Lee early
in this century were a tremendous influence
upon his life. Now, through his foresight and
generosity, new generations of deserving
students will benefit from the
accomplishments of his long life. We are
grateful and pleased that we are able to honor
his memory in this way.”’

_ The Doggett Scholarship Endowment
becomes an integral part of the extensive
financial aid program Washington and Lee
administers annually. In 1980-81, for
instance, W&L is providing $1,184,090 in
financial aid to 345 of the University’s
undergraduates.

Moreover, the Doggett bequest applies
toward the goal of $12.5 million that was set
for new endowment during the second and
final phase of the University’s development
program. After successfully completing the

first phase of the $62-million program in
1976 by raising $37.5 million ($1.5 million
beyond the stated goal of $36 million), the
University has currently received $17.5
million in commitments toward the second
phase goal of $26 million. The second phase
of the program is scheduled for completion
in December of 1981.

 

 

Alumnus corrects magazine
on Lee’s resting place

No, Robert E. Lee’s grave has not been
moved, no matter what you may have read in
Sports Illustrated recently. And Paul
Simpson, Class of ’76, was quick to point
that out.

In an article on Mike Newlin, a member
of the New Jersey Nets professional

basketball team, Sports Illustrated writer
Douglas Looney refers to Newlin’s habit of
exploring historic sites in the cities he visits
during his travels in the National Basketball
Association.

Wrote Looney: **In Washington (Newlin)
likes to visit Arlington National Cemetery
and immerse himself in the life of Robert E.
Lee, who lived close by and is buried
there.”’

Ahem. Robert E. Lee buried in Arlington
National Cemetery? Indeed.

Two weeks later the 19th Hole section of
Sports Illustrated included Simpson’s letter,
setting matters straight: ‘‘. . . for the sake of
historical accuracy,’’ wrote Simpson, ‘‘your
readers should know that when Newlin is in
Washington, D.C., he must travel farther
than Arlington National Cemetery to visit the
grave of Robert E. Lee. Lee is buried in
Lexington, Va. (about 185 miles southwest

 

Important art notice
to alumni and parents

A major benefit exhibition of paintings
from the University’s collections and from
the collections of alumni and parents will
be held in the late spring of 1982 at the
Hirschl-Adler Galleries in New York City.

The exhibition will commemorate the
250th birthday of George Washington, the
University’s first major benefactor, who was
himself an art collector.

On special loan for the show will be a
choice selection of works from Washington
and Lee’s collections of 18th-, 19th-, and
20th-century paintings, including the cele-
brated first portrait of Washington from life,
in the uniform of a British Colonial colonel,
painted in 1772 by Charles Willson Peale.

A selections committee will be formed
to seek major works for inclusion in the
show comparable in quality to those in the
University’s collections.

Approximately 150 paintings will make
up the exhibition, which will cover three
centuries of American and European art. A
catalogue of the exhibition will be pub-
lished.

Norman Hirschl of Hirschl-Adler Gal-
leries and James W. Whitehead, secretary

 

 

of the University and curator of its art col-
lections, announced plans for the show.

If you wish to participate, please send
your name, address, and telephone number,
and a description of the painting or paintings
(photograph or snapshot) that you are sub-
mitting for consideration to:

Office of the Secretary
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

17

& GAZETTE

of Washington) on the campus of
Washington and Lee University.’’

For the record (to borrow a phrase from
Sports Illustrated), a spokesman for the
magazine said nine letters had been received
correcting the mistake. He did not, however,
know whether all nine letter writers had
W&L connections. We’ll simply assume
they all did.

 

 

Fire fighting pays off
in and out of the classroom

David Stevens, a sophomore from
Annapolis, Md., has discovered a rather
unusual method for improving his study
habits—fighting fires in his spare time.

At least, Stevens contends his status as a
full-fledged member of the Lexington
Volunteer Fire Department actually helped
his studies.

‘*T find I organize my time much better,
get my studying done more efficiently, since
I know my beeper is liable to go off at any
moment and I'll have to go out on a call,”’
Stevens said.

These academic implications
notwithstanding, the members of the Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity are not about to scoff at
their fraternity brother’s avocation. In fact,
Stevens’ fire fighting has been a boon to the
Phi Psi house—quite literally.

When a fire broke out on the third floor
of the Phi Psi house early one Sunday
morning in March, Stevens was one of the
first to hear the blare of the smoke detectors.
He made a quick survey of the fire, realized
it was out of control, and immediately
ordered the building evacuated.

Then Stevens grabbed up his uniform and
raced the five blocks to the fire station to go
to work.

“Once we arrived at the Phi Psi house,
Dave led us into the fire with the hose,’’ said
Lexington fire chief Bryan Causey.

‘“T knew exactly where the fire was and
what the situation was in there,’’ Stevens
added. ‘‘It saved us some time.”’

The combination of the smoke detectors’
warning and Stevens’ training helped limit
damage to the house as well as prevent any
injuries.

Stevens is the only student among
Lexington’s 46 volunteer firemen. His status
is not without precedent, however. In years
past, other W&L students served as
volunteers.

‘‘But it’s been quite some time since we
had a student,’’ fire chief Causey noted. ‘‘I

18

David Stevens, ’83, student fire fighter.

think it’s valuable for us to have a student on
the rolls considering the large student
population we have in Lexington. Certainly
Dave’s presence was invaluable in the
instance of his fraternity house catching
fire.’’

Since he joined the department in
January, after satisfying the one-year
residency requirement, Stevens has
responded to 90 percent of the calls,
occasional'y making a premature exit from a
class when beckoned by the beeper on his
belt.

As one W&L professor observed about
those occasional disruptions, “‘What are you
supposed to do when his beeper goes off and
he asks permission to leave? Tell him to let the
city burn?’’

 

 

ROTC honors bestowed
at awards ceremony

Christopher S. O’Connor, a senior from
New York City, was the winner of the
Outstanding Cadet Award this year in the
University’s ROTC program. He was

 

presented the University sabre, the symbol of
the award, by President Robert E. R.
Huntley during the annual President’s Day
Awards Ceremony in April. O’Connor won
the award by vote of the Corps of Cadets.

Two other seniors received top honors in
the program. Douglas R. Shipman of South
Glastonbury, Conn., was presented the
Major Ronald O. Scharnberg Memorial
Award, named in honor of a member of the
W&L Class of 1963 who was killed in action
in Vietnam. Alan Pryor of Atlanta was the
winner of the George C: Marshall ROTC
Award.

Other awards were:

© Department of the Army Superior
Cadet Decoration Awards: John J. Fox II,
senior from Richmond; Clyde M. B.
Harkrader, junior from Mineral, Va.;
Douglas W. Lessley, sophomore from
Charleston, W.Va.; Andrew T. MacLellan,
freshman from Flemington, N.J.

© Reserve Officers Association of the
United States Award: Patrick M. Robinson,
senior from Nashville, Tenn. (gold medal);
Anthony R. Ierardi, junior from Philadelphia
(silver medal); David P. Ridlon, sophomore
from West Hartford, Conn. (bronze medal).

® Daughters of the Founders and
Patriots Award: Newton P. Kendrick,
sophomore from Norfolk.

@ American Legion Awards: Arthur W.
Mackie, senior from Chevy Chase, Md.
(scholastic excellence); Robert D. Shaver,
junior from Quentin, Pa. (scholastic
excellence); Scott T. Stafford, senior from
Crewe, Va. (military excellence); Thomas E.
Newton Jr., junior from New Orleans
(military excellence).

@ Association of the United States Army
ROTC Award: Keith E. Goretzka,
sophomore from West Chester, Pa.

® Association of the United States Army
ROTC Gold Medal Award: Scott B. Puryear,
junior from Madison, Va.

® Daughters of the American Revolution
Award: Vincent Coviello, senior from New
Providence, N.Y.

@ Sons of the American Revolution
Award: Scott S. Prysi, freshman from
Alexandria, Va.

@ American Veterans of World War II
Award: Robert H. Forsyth, junior from
Fairhaven, N.J.

@ The National Sojourners Award:
David M. Marsh, sophomore from
Westernport, Md.

®@ Veterans of Foreign Wars of the USA
Award: Roger D. McDonough, freshman
from Cheverly, Md.

®@ Military Order of the World Wars

 

 

Awards: John F. Schmidt, senior from
Montville, N.J. (gold medal); Douglas R.
Linton III, junior from Bay Head, N.J.
(silver medal); Anthony J. Zaccagnini,
sophomore from Reistertown, Md. (silver
medal); Edward J. O’Brien, freshman from
Norwich, N.Y. (bronze medal).

 

 

Students’ TV news show
wins Sigma Delta Chi award

‘‘The Southwest Chronicle,’’ a television
news show produced by W&L journalism
students, won an award in competition
sponsored by the Society of Professional
Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi.

The program is a weekly news magazine
focusing on events in the southwest Virginia
area. Funded by several businesses in that
area of the state, ‘‘The Southwest
Chronicle’’ is produced entirely by W&L
students in the studios of WBRA-TV,
Roanoke’s public television station, and is
shown on WSVN-TV in Norton, Va., and on
WBRA-TV in Raonoke.

**The Southwest Chronicle’’ placed
second in the documentary category of the
Mark of Excellence regional awards. The
show which earned the award featured an in-
depth examination of action taken during the
recent session of the Virginia General
Assembly.

Ben Keesee, a senior from Memphis,
Tenn., is producer and anchorman for the
show. Reporters include Currin Snipes, a —
senior from Blacksburg; Chris Peacock, a
junior from West Point, Ga.; Frank
Billingsley, a junior from Mountain Brook,
Ala.; and, Chris Graham, a sophomore from
Charlotte, N.C.

Journalism professors R. H. MacDonald
and Robert de Maria are executive producers
of the program.

 

 

Black Emphasis Month
brings array of speakers

Actress Ruby Dee provided the highlight
of Black Emphasis Month with a
performance of dramatic readings in Lee
Chapel.

Sponsored by the Student Association for
Black Unity, the month-long series of events
followed the theme ‘‘Black Women in the
’80s.”’

Ms. Dee, whose husband, Ossie Davis,
visited the campus a year ago, skillfully

 

wove a wide assortment of material into a
delightful performance.

In an interview with the Roanoke Times,
Ms. Dee had expressed an optimistic view of
the future. ‘‘We’re on the verge of some
spiritual awakening,’’ she said. ‘*I think the
American people are going to move into
another dimension. We are going to be
brothers.”’

In addition to Ms. Dee’s performance,
the Black Emphasis Month series ran the
gamut of topics:

@ Mignon Holland Anderson, author of
Mostly Womenfolk and a Man or Two, \ectured
on her experience as a black woman writer;

e@ Beverly J. A. Burton, staff attorney for

Black Emphasis Month concluded with the tenth annual Black Ball, sponsored by AB. U.

 

 

the Virginia Legal Aid Society, spoke on
black women and the law;

® Vernese O’Neal, director of admissions
at Dillard University in New Orleans,
lectured on ‘‘the Miseducation of Blacks in
America.’”’

 

 

Students forgo meals
to fight world hunger

By forfeiting one of their evening meals
at Evans Dining Hall, W&L students raised
almost $600 for world hunger in March.

The Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship

19

Le GAZETTE

designated March 25 as World Hunger Day,
encouraging students to make contributions.
The dining hall contributed the cost of each
meal students forfeited to the fund, and
several fraternities also contributed the cost
of a dinner.

According to junior J. Franklin Williams,
president of the Inter-Varsity Christian
Fellowship, half the funds, which totaled
$591, were donated to the Community
Pantry, a part of the Concerned Citizens of
Lexington, while the other half went to
World Vision International, an overseas
relief and emergency organization.

 

 

 

Jenks and Paxton cited
for historical scholarship

William A. Jenks, professor of history
and head of the department, and a former
student of his, Robert O. Paxton, ’54, now
professor of history at Columbia University,
were recognized recently as being among
those American historians who have made
significant contributions to European history.

The recognition came in the presidential
address of David H. Pinkney at the 95th
annual meeting of the American Historical
Association in Washington, D.C., last
December. The address, *‘ American
Historians on the European Past,’’ was
published in the February 1981 issue of The
American Historical Review, the
association’s journal.

In his address, Pinkney counted Dr.
Jenks among those American historians
responsible for the lively awakening of the
historiography of the Habsburg Empire after
it fell into a long sleep following the
dissolution of the middle European
community. He said that German reviewers
in approving and acclaiming the books of
these Americans ‘‘have observed that
American historians of the Habsburg Empire
enjoy the double advantage of removal from
the nationalist passions of the area and of
having the insights of those who have
experienced life in a federal system that has
worked and flourished.’’

Dr. Jenks is the author of four books on
Austrian history: The Austrian Electoral
Reform of 1907 (1950); Vienna and the
Young Hitler (1960); Austria Under the Iron
Ring, 1879-1893 (1965); and Francis Joseph
and the Italians, 1849-1859 (1978).

Paxton was cited in the address as being
among the leading American historians of
contemporary France. Pinkney noted that
French historians have to an unusual degree

20

Edward L. Pinney Prize

Contributions are being sought to
Support an annual prize that has been
established in memory of Edward L.
(Mike) Pinney, professor of politics and
one of Washington and Lee’s most
highly regarded teachers, who died of a
heart attack on May 14, 1980. Mike had
been a member of the W&L faculty for
17 years. The Pinney Prize will be
awarded to the W&L student who
demonstrates extraordinary commitment
to scholarship and to the nurturing of
intellectual life at Washington and Lee.
Checks made payable to Washington and
Lee University may be sent to David
Novack, Department of Sociology,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

 

 

 

surrendered contemporary history to
journalists and politicians and that American
historians have moved into the field,
bringing to their study the advantages of
detachment and perspective. He pointed out
that several books by Americans, among
them Paxton’s Parades and Politics at Vichy:
The French Officer Corps Under Marshall
Pétain (1966) earned the admission of René
Rédmond of the University of Paris in 1970
that ‘‘to Americans we owe some of the best
studies of contemporary France.’’ He added
that Paxton’s Vichy France: Old Guard and
New Order, 1940-1944 (1972), published after
the Rédmond remark, has won comparable
recognition.

 

 

In the arts

@ The Ninth Step, a play written and
directed by Thomas J. Ziegler, assistant
professor of fine arts and theatre, was
presented at the Boiler Room Theatre in
March. A production of the Washington and
Lee University Theatre, the play is based on
one of the 12 steps an alcoholic follows in
overcoming the disease.

e James Avery, internationally acclaimed
pianist, appeared in concert as the final
program in this year’s Concert Guild series.

e A collection of drawings, etchings, and
bronze sculptures by contemporary artist
Leonard Baskin were displayed at duPont
Gallery in March.

@ The Washington and Lee University
Theatre presented Look Homeward, Angel,

Ketti Frings’ adaptation of Thomas

Wolfe’s autobiographical novel, in the
Troubadour Theatre. The play was directed
by Albert C. Gordon, professor of drama and
chairman of the department of fine arts.

@ The University’s new Allen Digital
Computer Organ was dedicated during a
concert that featured the W&L Glee Club,
the W&L Brass and Percussion Ensemble,
and the Sweet Briar College Choir. James T.
Cook, assistant professor of music at W&L,
was organist for the program which included
the performance of a mass composed by
Norman Dello Joio.

@ Six one-act plays directed by W&L
students were presented in the Boiler Room
Theatre as part of a course on directing. The
plays were: Bad, Bad Jo-Jo, by junior Peter
H. Moody; The Bear, by junior Richard
Boaz; Cowboys #2, by senior Robert
Shuman; For Sylvia, by junior Bruce Young;
Moonshine, by senior J. Mark Turner; and,
Private Wars, by senior Alexis V. Richards.

©e Two W&L freshmen, Lee Feldman of
North Miami Beach, Fla., and Bill
Thompson of Boca Raton, Fla., took part in
an exhibition debate against two British
debaters on the topic: ‘‘This house believes
that the government that governs best
governs least.’’

 

 

Fure is named
to two positions

Robert P. Fure has been named Director
of Summer Programs and Assistant Director
of Publications at the University.

A 1968 graduate of Northern Michigan
University, Fure earned both his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees in English from the University
of California at Berkeley. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1977 as
assistant professor of English.

In addition to courses in American
literature and modern poetry, Fure has
designed and taught interdisciplinary courses
in art and literature while at W&L. He has
also published articles on a variety of
subjects, ranging from contemporary poetry
to life in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia.

In 1980, Fure was appointed to the
planning committee and later to the faculty
of the new Institute for Business Executives,
a summer program in the humanities for
middle and upper level corporate
management which will be held on the
campus in June.

As Director of Summer Programs at
W&L, Fure will coordinate program research

 

 

Robert Fure, new administrator

and development for the University’s
expanding summer curriculum.

In the publications office, Fure will be a
writer for the Alumni Magazine and other
University periodicals and special
publications. He also will assist in a variety
of editing and publishing responsibilities.

 

 

 

Jeans awarded grant
by Mednick Fund

Roger B. Jeans Jr., associate professor of
history, has been awarded a research grant
from the Maurice L. Mednick Memorial
Fund for study this summer.

The Mednick Memorial Fund is
administered by the Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges (VFIC), a joint fund-
raising consortium of 12 four-year private
colleges in the state, including W&L.

Jeans will use his Mednick research grant
to further his work on a biography of Carsun
Chang, a well-known 20th century Chinese
philosopher and politician.

Jeans’ research will include exploration
of the holdings on 20th century China of the
Public Record Office in London and
investigation of the British Museum’s
collection of English language treaty port
newspapers. He also plans research at the
National Archives in Washington and
investigation of material deposited with the
Chinese Oral History Project of Columbia
University.

Jeans, whose Ph.D. degree is from
George Washington University, specializes
in Asian history and has delivered numerous
papers on that subject.

 

Roger Jeans, Mednick Fund recipient

The Mednick Memorial Fund was created
in 1976 after the accidental death of a young
Norfolk industrialist. His family and business
associates established the fund to perpetuate
his name to recognize his own strong interest
in higher education. The VFIC administers
the fund to encourage the professional
development of college teachers and improve
their competence through grants for research
and advanced study, and to assist highly
qualified, needy students in their upperclass
years in college.

 

 

Smith is awarded
journalism fellowship

Hampden H. Smith, associate professor
of journalism, has been awarded a fellowship
under a new program that is designed to
recognize journalism teachers for their
dedication to the teaching of writing and
editing.

Sponsored by three top editors’
organizations, the program—Fellowships for
Excellence in the Teaching of Writing and
Editing—attracted 82 applicants in its first
year.

Smith was one of 10 journalism
professors from throughout the country who
won the fellowships and will participate in a
week’s seminar in June at the Modern Media
Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla.

The fellowships are sponsored by the
education committees of the American
Society of Newspaper Editors, the
Associated Press Managing Editors, and the
National Conference of Editorial Writers.
They are supported by a $10,000 grant from

 

Hampden Smith, | journalism fellow ,

the Modern Media Institute.

At the seminar, the teachers will work
with five editors on ways of improving the
quality of writing instruction within
journalism education.

 

 

Williams receives grant
for radiation research

H. Thomas Williams Jr., associate
professor of physics, has received a research
grant to study high energy radiation.

The Cottrell College Science Grant will
provide Williams with more than $8,600 to
Support research and calculation of
probabilities of scattering high energy
radiation from nuclei. The research will be
conducted over the next two summers.

According to Williams, experimentation
in high energy radiation will be increasing
during the next several years. His research
and calculations are designed to help
scientists know what to measure during their
experiments.

Williams received his B.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Virginia. He
joined the W&L faculty in 1974 and is the
author of numerous articles on nuclear
physics. Williams has, in the past, received
grant support from the National Science
Foundation and the Virginia Foundation for
Humanities and Public Policy.

The Cottrell College Science Grants of
the Research Corporation of New York City
are designed to help academic scientists at
private, predominately undergraduate
institutions conduct basic research of
originality and importance in the natural

21

 

H.T. Williams, radiation researcher

sciences. The grant provides faculty stipends
and funds for a student research assistant as
well as support for equipment, supplies, and
travel associated with the research.

 

 

 

Elmes is senior author
of psychology textbook

David G. Elmes, professor of
psychology, is the senior author of a new
laboratory-oriented textbook, Methods in
Experimental Psychology, published by
Houghton Mifflin Company.

Barry Kantowitz and Henry L. Roediger
If, both of Purdue University, are co-authors
of the text. Roediger is a 1969 Washington
and Lee graduate who received his Ph.D. in
psychology from Yale University.

Elmes, who earned both his
undergraduate and graduate degrees from the
University of Virginia, has been at the
University since 1967. Elmes is also author
of Readings in Experimental Psychology,
published by Rand McNally in 1978. Elmes’
research concerns the processes underlying
human learning and retention. He has
published about two dozen articles in various
technical journals.

 

 

Faculty Activity

© Gerard M. Doyon, professor of art
history, presented a slide-lecture, ‘“Why So
Few Women Artists in the History of French
Art?’’ at the fourth annual Art History
Symposium at Longwood College in
Farmville, Va., in April.

22

 

David Elmes, textbook author i

@ W&L treasurer E. Stewart Epley was
director of this year’s American Cancer
Crusade in Rockbridge County.

@ Leonard E. Jarrard, head of the
psychology department, was the recipient of
an award for his outstanding contribution to
psychology as a science from the Virginia
Psychological Association.

@ Carren Osna Kaston, assistant
professor of English, was elected the first
president of the Henry James Society.

@ Emory Kimbrough Jr., professor of
sociology and head of the department,
presented a paper, ‘““‘Medieval and Modern
New Town Development: A Comparative
View,’’ at the Southern Sociological
Society’s annual meeting in Louisville, Ky.

@ David R. Novack, assistant professor
of sociology, delivered a paper, ‘‘The
Meanings of Crime: An Application of
Componential Analysis,’’ at the annual
meeting of the Eastern Sociological Society
in New York City in March. Novack also
presented a paper, ‘‘Affirmative Action in
South Boston: Racial and Class Conflict,’’ at
the Southern Sociological Society meeting in
Louisville.

@ Capt. Robert C. Peniston, director of
Lee Chapel, won a George Washington
Honor Medal from the Freedoms Foundation
for a letter he wrote to the editor of the
Richmond News Leader. The letter was titled
‘“Retired Captain Ponders Defense
Problems.”’

e A musical composition by music
professor Robert Stewart was performed by
the Brass Chamber Music Society of
Annapolis, Md., in April.

@ Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the author of an article, ‘‘John
Stewart Skinner: Life and Letters,’’ in a

 

forthcoming issue of the Maryland Historical
Magazine.

© O. Kendall White Jr., associate
professor of sociology, presided over a
session on the topic of religion and society
during the annual meeting of the Southern
Sociological Society in Louisville.

@ James W. Whitehead, curator of the
University’s art collections, delivered a
lecture on the Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain at the opening of an
exhibition of the collection at Oglebay Park
in Wheeling, W.Va.

 

 

Speakers on campus

@ Louis M. Brown, professor of law
emeritus at the University of Southern
California and Distinguished Visiting
Professor at the Whittier College of Law,
delivered the keynote address for the 1981
Legal Ethics Institute. Brown’s lecture was
titled: ‘‘Preventive Law: Humanistic
Aspects.’’

e@ Jim Bouton, former major league
baseball pitcher and author of the
controversial book, Ball Four, was a speaker
in the Contact series. Among other items,
Bouton offered a plan by which professional
baseball would be owned and operated by
municipalities with profits used to benefit the
cities.

@ Federal District Judge Sherman
Finesilver discussed ‘‘Products Liability’’
and examined the legal ramifications of the
swine flu vaccination program during a
lecture at the Law School.

@ Virginia Governor John Dalton talked
about redistricting and the upcoming
gubernatorial race during a lecture sponsored
by the College Republicans.

@ Nicholas Hellmuth, director of the
Foundation for Latin American
Anthropological Research in St. Louis,
presented a slide-lecture, ‘‘Rituals of Human
Sacrifice in the Mayan Palaces,’’ under the
sponsorship of the department of fine arts
and the Glasgow Committee.

e Susan Wittig, dean of Tulane
University’s Sophie Newcomb College,
lectured on ‘“Community and Consensus:
The Structure of a College Curriculum’’
under sponsorship of the University’s Ad
Hoc Committee on Liberal Education.
Established last year at the request of
President Robert E. R. Huntley, the Ad Hoc
Committee on Liberal Education is studying
the curriculum and will offer suggestions for
strengthening liberal arts education at W&L.

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

President Huntley Wins Lynchburg Citation at Chapter’s Annual Gala

 

LYNCHBURG—Chapter officers present President Huntley with the Lynchburg C itation. They are

William C. Washburn Jr., 66, incoming president; Walter B. Potter, ’48, outgoing president, and Marc A.

Schewel Jr., ’69, incoming vice president.

 

Payne, ’37; Mark B. Davis Jr., ’45; Robert L. Stein, ’41, and Thomas A. Courtney IIT, ’51.

LYNCHBURG. The Lynchburg Citation
went this year to President Robert E. R.
Huntley, a 1950 graduate of Washington and
Lee who became its 20th president, the first
alumnus to head the University since pre-
Civil War times. He received the award at
the Lynchburg chapter’s meeting on April 3

at the Lynchburg Fine Arts Center. Walter B.
Potter, 48, outgoing chapter president, made
the presentation.

The citation is presented annually to a
person who has made outstanding
contributions to the life of the University; it
is considered to be one of the most important

 

awards conferred by a W&L alumni chapter.

Huntley was cited for his ‘‘absolute
commitment to Alma Mater and the quality
of his leadership in advancing her to a firm
stance of unprecedented strength.’’ It noted
also the President’s ‘‘magnificent effort and
monumental achievement in the development
of the University’s physical, financial, and
academic resources toward ensuring its
competence to serve generations to come.’’
The citation commended Huntley for his
‘‘innate modesty, his unpretentious style, his
smooth equanimity, his generous spirit.”’

Lea Booth, ’40, made arrangements for
the meeting; Potter presided. Bertram R.
Schewel, ’41, gave his annual (and
humorous) State of the Chapter Address.
Marc A. Schewel Jr., ’69, gave the
treasurer’s report. G. Edward Calvert, °44,
made the report for the nominating
committee, and these officers were elected:
William C. Washburn Jr., ’66, president;
Marc A. Schewel, vice president; Thomas
W. Pettyjohn Jr., 68, ’72L, treasurer.

Last year’s citation recipients were
Catherine F. McDowell, secretary of the
W&L School of Law for 30 years, and her
late husband, Charles R. McDowell, who
taught law at W&L for 42 years. Other
recipients have been Frances and Sydney
Lewis of Richmond, donors of $9 million to
the University’s law program; Dr. Edgar F.
Shannon, former president of the University
of Virginia (Lewis and Shannon are both
members of the W&L Board of Trustees);
James W. Whitehead, secretary of the
University, and Mrs. Whitehead; and the late
Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students at W&L
for 30 years.

LOUISVILLE. A large group of alumni
and their spouses attended a cocktail party on
Feb. 24 at the Louisville Country Club. They
welcomed Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, who had attended a
national conference of alumni and
development directors at the Hyatt Hotel on
the previous day. The chapter was pleased to
have Arthur P. (Bondy) Bondurant, ’28,
attend. The arrangements were made by
Charles W. Dobbins, ’70, chapter president,
and Terry W. Tyler, ’72, vice president for
finance.

20

CHAPTER NEWS

BALTIMORE. The chapter held a
reception and buffet on March 28 at the
University Union at Towson State
University. The social event preceded an
evening lacrosse game between the Generals
and the Towson State Tigers. Sam Englehart,
73, and Tim Winfield, ’73, arranged the
gathering and greeted guests at the door
along with Frank C. Brooks, ’46, a member
of the Board of Trustees. Many parents of
lacrosse players attended the reception and
joined the alumni in cheering the Generals’
efforts at the game. The Generals lost to
Towson 19-11 to end a nine-game W&L
domination of the series.

CHARLESTON. The W&L Glee Club
provided the entertainment at a cocktail
reception on March 28, 1981, at the Holiday
Inn ‘‘Heart O’Town’’ in Charleston. Alumni,
parents, and guests enjoyed hors d’oeuvres
and a buffet dinner. The 30 students in the
Glee Club presented several musical
selections, including the alumni favorite
‘‘College Friendships.’’ Arrangements for
the reception were made by chapter officers
Louis Paterno, ’65, ’68L, and Fred Belden,
60, along with I. N. Smith, ’57, 60L, a
member of the Board of Trustees. Following
the reception, the Glee Club presented a
concert at the new Cultural Center at the
Capitol Plaza. A large audience sparked by
alumni and friends of Washington and Lee
enthusiastically received the group and its
director, Dr. Gordon Spice. Mrs. Frances
Haynes, mother of Robert Haynes, ’82, a
member of the Glee Club, and other families
assisted in the arrangements for the concert
and the lodging for members of the group.

TIDEWATER. The chapter sponsored its
annual oyster roast on March 28, 1981.
Alumni, spouses, and friends gathered on the
banks of the Lynnhaven Bay at Bayville
Farms to enjoy oysters, music, reunion, and
to celebrate the ‘‘ Year of the Oyster.’’ Many
enjoyed watching the NCAA semi-final
basketball game between North Carolina and
Virginia on a television set provided by
Richard Burroughs, ’68. Those attending
from Lexington included Dr. Louis Hodges
of the Religion Department and Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, and Richard Sessoms of the
Development Office.

24

 

 

CHARLESTON—Alumni enjoyed a performance by the W&L Glee Club at a cocktail reception. Guests
included Mrs. I. N. Smith Sr.; I. N. Smith Jr., ’57, ’60L, aW&L Trustee; Mrs. William T. Brotherton Jr. ;
William T. Brotherton Jr.,’47,’5O0L; Mrs. William T. W. Brotherton; Robert W. Haynes, ’82, and William

T. W. (Will) Brotherton, ’75.

 

CHARLES TON—The large group at the chapter’ s reception applaud the Glee Club’ s rendition of the W&L
Swing. The Glee Club later presented a concert at the city’s Cultural Center.

 

: -

RICHMOND—A luncheon at the Downtown Club on April 8 provided the setting for discussion among
Mark Putney, ’78; Rolf Piranian, ’74, W&L’s soccer coach; Dick Sessoms, associate director of development;
David Redmond, ’66, ’69L, chapter president; Jack Emmer, W&L’s lacrosse coach, and Lee Keiger, ’76.

RICHMOND. A record number of alumni
and friends attended a luncheon on April 8,
1981, at the Downtown Club of Richmond.
Dave Redmond, 66, ’69L, chapter
president, presided and announced future
plans for the chapter, including luncheons,
an evening cocktail reception and dinner in
late May, and a golf outing with Hampden-

Sydney. W&L lacrosse coack Jack Emmer
and soccer coach Rolf Piranian, ’74,

reviewed the athletic program at the
University and the records and future
prospects of their teams. Everyone was urged
to attend the W&L vs. U.Va. lacrosse game
on April 18. W. C. (Bill) Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, was also present.

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to ‘‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘“steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $50.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $95.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $50.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va. :

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

 

1923

M. IRVINE DUNN and his wife, Katherine, visited
Alaska and took a cruise through the Panama canal
during the last six months. They are scheduled to take
a trip around the British Isles in June.

1925

Dr. CALVIN T. BURTON was inducted as president of
the Virginia Medical Alumni Association at the
medical alumni weekend in Richmond in May. Burton
practices ophthalmology in Roanoke.

HERMAN J. WOMELDORF, an ordained minister for
more than 50 years, returned to Raleigh, N.C., from
the Presbyterian Church of Edisto Island in South
Carolina. In his eight years at Edisto Island the old
1830 church was renovated and restored, the 1834
manse restored, and in January 1981 the first educa-
tional-fellowship building was completed.

1926

JOHN B. Funk has led a life of public service. He was
a member of the Maryland Legislature from 1934 to
1938 and a member of the Maryland Senate for eight
years. He was named Maryland Secretary of State in
1947 and was chief engineer for four years. From
1951 to 1959 Funk was director of public works for
Baltimore County. He retired in 1968 after eight
years as chairman of the Maryland State Road Com-
mission.

1927

ROBERT TAYLOR has retired after 50 years in the
newspaper business. He was chief editorial writer
and political columnist for the Pittsburgh Press. He is
also a former editorial writer for the Scripps Howard
newspapers. He lives in Wichliffe, Ohio.

1928

FRANK R. Dupuy Jr. retired in 1977 as vice president
of Hearst Magazine and publisher of Cosmopolitan
magazine. He travels extensively.

1933

R. B. ARMISTEAD has been retired from the engineer-
ing department of South Central Bell Telephone Co.
since August 1975.

1934

Dr. WILLIAM J. Moran continues as an adjunct
research professor in chemistry at Drew University.
He retired in 1976 as director of chemical manufac-
turing in the pharmaceutical division of Ciba-Geigy
Corp.

1936

ARTHUR HAUCK, though semi-retired, still does some
free-lance consulting work in chemical plant engi-
neering. He and his wife spend winters in Lutz, Fla.,
and summers in South Bristol, Maine.

25

    

E. F. Shannon Jr., "39°

RALPH H. SMITH continues as vice president for
governmental relations of Union Central Life Insur-
ance Co. He is also town crier for the Village of
Mariemont and past chairman of the industry advisory
committee of the Conference of Insurance Legisla-
tors. He lives in Cincinnati.

1937

JAMES A. BYERS retired from DuPont Company in
1975 after 36 years of service.

Having retired as director of the Jamestown- Yorktown
Foundation, PARKE S. ROUSE JR. is now an editor of
The Daily Press. He was recently appointed chairman
of the president house committee of the College of
William and Mary and commissioned by the college
to write the history of its presidents.

WILLIAM C. WILBUR JR., affiliated with the Corpus
Christi College in Texas, is currently on sabbatical in
Oxford, England, doing research in the Bodleian
Library.

1938

Dr. T. HART BAKER will retire as medical director of
the Southern California Permanente Medical Group
at the end of 1981. He lives in Laguna Niguel, Calif.

Dr. FLoyD R. Mays Jr., a surgeon in Big Spring,
Texas, is an active diver and teaches scuba diving at
the YMCA.

1939

R. WINSTON BAIN retired February 1981 as 3rd Ju-
dicial Circuit Court Judge of Portsmouth, Va.

Dr. EDGAR F. SHANNON Jr., Commonwealth Pro-
fessor of English and former president of the Univer-
sity of Virginia, received an honorary degree from
Ohio State University on March 20, 1981. He is
national president of Phi Beta Kappa and a member of
the Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee.

RALPH H. SmiTH (See 1936.)

1940

FREDERICK D. SHELLABARGER will retire in May
1981 from the University of Oklahoma and become
professor emeritus. He plans to make Santa Fe, N.
Mex., his home.

1941]

CHARLES F. HEINER retired in 1967 after 25 years
with the F.B.I. In April 1980 he took early retirement
with the security program of the Federal Reserve
Bank in Richmond.

CHARLES L. Hopson has practiced law in Frankfort,
Ky., for 35 years. In October 1980 he joined 300 of
his World War II shipmates who served aboard the
USS Lexington (CV-16) for a reunion in Pensacola,
Fla. , that included a day at sea on the ‘‘Blue Ghost,”’

26

 

now a training carrier. While in Pensacola he held a
two-man W&L reunion with Dr. Robert E. (Buzz)
Lee, 41.

ARTHUR C. SmiTH of Alexandria, Va., has retired
from the moving and storage business. He is currently
with American Systems Corp., a government con-
tractor in the management consulting field.

1942

WALTER L. Monroe is the former mayor of Mills-
boro, Del. His wife currently holds that position. He
is also the former president of the chamber of com-
merce and former commander of the Indian River
Post #22 of the American Legion.

JOHN JOE WILKINSON is the District Court Judge in
Steamboat Springs, Colo. He received his law degree
from the University of Colorado in 1949 and practiced
law in New Mexico until 1971 when he returned to
Colorado. In 1955-56 he was Democratic State
Chairman of New Mexico and in 1968-69 was presi-
dent of the New Mexico Bar Association.

1945

THE Rev. STANDROD T. CARMICHAEL is with the
Athletes For Better Education Foundation in Chicago.
It is an academic-athletic college counseling program
for highly skilled high school basketball players. He
is author and editor of the Stack the Deck writing
programs for junior and senior high school students.

ROGER R. KIMBALL is vice president and regional
sales manager for Bibb Co.

1949

BRIAN BELL is counselor for public affairs at the
American Embassy in Lagos, Nigeria. He is also
director of the International Communication Agency
program in Nigeria where he supervises 13 Americans
and 54 Nigerians. Bell is the third ranking U.S.
diplomat in the Embassy in this strategic and impor-
tant country.

1950

JAMES T. TRUNDLE, formerly with the real estate firm
of Century 21-Berry McCormick in Berlin, N.J., has
now joined Gitomer Management Associates, a real
estate firm in Cherry Hill.

IRVIN H. WICKNICK received his Chartered Property
Casualty Underwriter’s (CPCU) designation in Octo-
ber 1980. He is vice president for claims of Lumber-
man’s, a reciprocal insurance company, insuring the
forest products industry.

1951

JAMES H. PATTON IV has been named vice president
and manager of J. C. Bradford & Co.’s office in
Dalton, Ga. Patton has been with J. C. Bradford
since 1966. The firm is an investment banking con-
cern. Patton is also a director of Crown American,
Inc., and Junior Achievement.

1952

Dr. ECHOLS A. HANSBARGER JR. practices pathology
and laboratory medicine at St. Francis and Kanawha
Valley Hospitals in Charleston, W.Va. He is also
president of the Kanawha Medical Society.

1953

JAN J. (JACK) SCHILTHIUS JR. is associate pastor for
Parish Ministries Memorial Park (Presbyterian)
Church in Allison Park, Pa.

1955

ROBERT M. CULLERs has been appointed executive
director of the Wissahickon Valley Chamber of Com-
merce. A resident of Blue Bell, Pa., Cullers is presi-
dent of Writers: Free-Lance, Inc., in Ambler and
specializes in public relations and management for
groups and associations. He is also executive director
of Allied Florists of Delaware Valley, Inc. Cullers
was previously managing editor of the employee
publications at Atlantic Richfield Co. and associate
editor of General Motors World, the management
magazine for General Motors Corp.

CapT. T. E. LOHREY JR. is Force Judge Advocate for
Commander of Naval Surface Forces, Pacific Fleet,
in San Diego, Calif.

1956

JOHN K. OasT recently moved to Poquoson, Va.,
where he is executive vice president and chief execu-
tive officer of the First National Bank.

1957

CHARLES F. Davis JR. is still with Continental Bank
and is involved in their Asia-Pacific business. He
lives in Deerfield, III.

Capt. T. E. LOHREY Jr. (See 1955.)

1958

RANDOLPH W. LUNSFORD is back in the United States
after teaching at the Colegio Americano in Guate-
mala. He is presently teaching in the public schools in
Grand Rapids, Mich.

WILLIAM C. MILLER, former associate general coun-
sel with Xerox, has become vice president and general
counsel of Max Factor & Co., a subsidiary of Norton
Simon, in Hollywood, Calif. His family will move to
Los Angeles from their Connecticut home.

Harry Mosgs, producer of 60 Minutes, expanded on
a story on that program concerning secret drug ex-
periments by the Army and made a docu-drama TV-
movie for MTM Productions. It was Moses’ first
effort at directing. The film, which was aired on CBS
on Jan. 28, 1981, dealt with the story of James
Thornwell and his suit against the Army. Following
the filming, Moses returned to television news as
executive producer for a produced CBS series, Pro-
files With Mike Wallace.

 

 

R. S. Wolf, ’60

1959

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN EsPERIAN, a daughter,
Justine Auroro, on June 9, 1980. The family lives in
Lancaster, Pa.

Junius M. Lemmon is a business and estate planning
supervisor for the life division of Aetna Life Casualty.

CHARLES F. Davis Jr. (See 1957.)

1960

McGown I. (Mac) PaTRICk is president of Barney
& Patrick Advertising, Inc., in Mobile, Ala., and is
immediate past chairman of the board of trustees of
Affiliated Advertising Agencies International.

RICHARD S. WOLFE has been named group actuary by
the board of directors of Life Insurance Co. of Geor-
gia. Wolf joined Life of Georgia in 1964 as actuarial
assistant and was promoted to manager and assistant
actuary in 1968 and associate actuary in 1973, be-
coming manager for group rates and benefits later
that year. He is a fellow in the Society of Actuaries
and is former president of the Atlanta Actuarial Club.
Wolf is also a member of the Atlanta Regional Com-
mission’s task force on health delivery systems. He is
married to the former Thelma Cohn. They have two
children.

1961

JOHN R. FARMER, vice president of Goldman, Sachs
& Co., an investment banking firm, has been named
manager of the fixed income department for the West
Coast in their San Francisco office.

HENRY H. HARRELL has been named a senior vice
president of Universal Leaf Tobacco Co. in Rich-
mond, Va. Harrell joined the company in 1966 and
became a vice president in 1974. His major area of
responsibility is international tobacco sales. Harrell
is also a director of Jefferson Bankshares, Southern
Bank and Bank of Goochland.

WILLIAM R. JOHNSTON has formed a new company,
Agora Securities, Inc., which are members of the
New York Stock Exchange. Johnson is chief executive
officer and chairman of the board for Agora, which
specializes in more than 30 stocks. He is also the
treasurer and vestryman of Saint Bernard’s Church in
Morristown, N.J.

JUNIUS M. LEMMON (See 1959.)

WILLIAM C. MILLER (See 1958.)

1962

Harry G. BALLANCE is a pilot captain for Delta Air
Lines in Atlanta. He and his wife, Carol, have four
children.

RICHARD A. RADIS continues as a director of the Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. , Semi-Annual Billfish Tournament.
There are two three-day billfish tournaments and one
two-night swordfish tournament.

After 10 years overseas, most recently in the Nether-
lands, WILLIAM L. ROBERTS JR. is back in the United
States and is credit manager for leasing for Citicorp
Industrial Credit, Inc., a Citibank affiliate.

1963

KEN C. KOWALSKI continues in the insurance business
with Massachusetts Mutual. He has also joined Cosby
Insurance Co. in Lynchburg, Va., a small property
and casualty agency. He and his wife, Gail, have two
children and live in Lynchburg.

After graduation from the American Graduate School
for International Management, CHRISTIAN A. LARSEN
JR. went to work for Young and Rubicam Advertising,
Inc., in New York City. He was transferred to Puerto
Rico in 1968 and is now back in New York as director
of international marketing for Estee Lauder Interna-
tional, the cosmetic and fragrance manufacturers.

J. RICHARD UHLIG is employed by McCormick Pro-
perties, Inc., in Baltimore. He is currently vice presi-
dent of office buildings development and operations.

SHERWOOD W. WISE has been promoted to full pro-
fessor at Florida State University. He lives in Talla-
hassee.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. COLVIN, a daugh-
ter, Catherine Victoria Grant, on Nov. 27, 1980. The
young lady joins two older brothers. Colvin and his
wife, Kathleen, own and operate Colvin Communi-
cations, a public relations and marketing agency in
Arlington Heights, Ill.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. URQuHaRT III, a
son, James Burnell, on Sept. 15, 1980. The young
man joins an older sister. The family lives in Court-
land, Va., where Urquhart is an attorney and a com-
mander in the U.S. Naval Reserves.

BRICE R. GAMBER was recently named manager of
Chubb & Son’s north central region, headquartered
in Minneapolis, Minn. His family is currently living
in Barrington, Ill., and will join him in Minneapolis
in June.

CHARLES C. OWENS, a resident of Baltimore, enjoys
participating in steeplechases in Virginia and for the
past two years has been the winner of the First Colony
Steeplechase.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK is an environmental scientist
with Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC). He
and his wife have three children and the family lives
in Naperville, Ill.

1965

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE was recently appointed vice
president and general counsel of the Investment Group
of INA Corp. in Philadelphia. The Group has respon-
sibility for management of all insurance portfolios,

mutual funds, international investments and special
private placements, including oil, gas, and real estate.

WILLIAM S. Davin is advertising manager of Rolling
Stone magazine. He lives in New York city.

JOHN W. HUunr is an audit partner in the Midland,
Texas, office of Main, Hurdman and Cranstoon. He
had been with the same firm in New York. Hunt and
his wife, Ann, have two children, Linsly and Andy.

Dr. CHARLES A. SWEET has been promoted to pro-
fessor of English at Eastern Kentucky University. He
had several short stories published in Ellery Queen’s
Mystery Magazine under the pseudonym Hal Charles.

1966
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. M. NEELY YOUNG II, a son,
Carter Franklin, on Jan. 3, 1981. The young man
joins an older brother. Young is academic dean at
Pace Academy in Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN D. ANDERSON is nearing completion of his
second master’s degree, this one is guidance and
counselling, at Long Island University. He works at
Morris High School in South Bronx as a Spanish
bilingual grade advisor and counselor. Anderson, his
wife, Malky, and 5-year-old son, David, live in
Hartsdale, N.Y.

C. FREDERICK BENT III has formed a new law firm in
Milton, Mass.

EARL T. Berry is a partner in the Dallas law firm of
Crutcher, Hull, Ramsey and Jordan.

In January 1979, Dr. PHILLip D. MOLLERE was
appointed superintendent of chemical research and
development for Freeport Minerals. He recently spent
15 days in Australia reviewing nickel and cobalt
operations in Queensland. Mollere also just completed
a term as chairman of the Louisiana Section of the
American Chemical Society.

Following a recent merger to form the new Trinity-
Western Title Co. in Fort Worth, CHARLES H. NEw-
MAN III was named chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of the new firm. He had been presi-
dent of Trinity Title Co.

Since July 1979 GorDON V. RAMSEIER has been a
partner in the Atlanta office of Booz, Allen and
Hamilton, management consultants. Ramseier, his
wife, Judy, and children, Brian, 8, and Lisa, 3, live
in Sandy Springs, Ga.

E. STARKE SYDNOR has joined the legal department
of Vulcan Materials Co. in Birmingham. He had been
a partner in the Lynchburg law firm of Edmunds,
Williams, Robertson, Sackett, Baldwin and Graves.

1967

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. G. BLAINE Ewinc III, a
daughter, Stephanie Trenholm, on Nov. 22, 1980, in
Charleston, S.C.

27

   

S. F. Brauer, 67

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. TUCKER Mors, a son,
Richard Braden, on Dec. 14, 1980, in Memphis.
Morse resigned from Federal Express Corp. on Jan.
31, 1980, after nine years as senior vice president and
general counsel. He returned to Little Rock to enter
business.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT E. TAYLOR III, a
son, Harrison Bain, on Nov. 10, 1980, in Lynchburg.
Taylor was recently appointed senior counsel for
Babcock and Wilcox Co. in Lynchburg, Va.

GARRY APGaR, after four years in France with several
publications, is back in the United States doing free-
lance newspaper cartoonist work in New York City.

W. NaT BAKER is the manager of financial planning
and analysis for an operating division of Foremost-
McKesson, Inc., in San Francisco.

STEPHEN F. BRAUER has been elected president of
Hunter Engineering Co. in Bridgeton, Mo. He has
been with the firm in various sales and marketing
positions since 1971 and has been executive vice
president and a director since 1978. The firm is a
manufacturer of automotive wheel alignment, wheel
balancing, and other vehicle service equipment. The
home office is in St. Louis with plants in St. Louis
and Durant, Miss., a subsidiary in Canada, and dis-
tributors in 47 foreign countries. Brauer resides in St.
Louis with his wife, Camilla, and two young sons and
daughter.

MaJ. WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM is Stationed in Hei-
delberg, West Germany, with the U.S. Army.

JEFFREY GAYNER is director of the department of
foreign policy studies at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington, D.C. Gayner joined the foundation when
it was organized in January 1974 and is the only
foreign policy researcher on the 10-person staff. His
first two projects were a paper on the failure of
Marxism in Chile and an analysis of the Genocide
Convention, a United Nations treaty which was
brought before the U.S. Senate. Gayner has published
articles in The Asia Mail, The Journal of International
Relations, Intelligence Digest, The Journal of Social
and Political Affairs, and numerous newspapers.

PAUL R. STANTON has been named a fund member
attorney of Lawyer’s Title Guaranty Fund. He prac-
tices in the Miami law firm of White and Brown.
Lawyer’s Title Guaranty Fund is the nation’s first
bar-related title insuror.

1968
MARRIAGE: JAMES R. MADISON and Marilyn New-
ton, on Aug. 30, 1980. They live in Shreveport, La.,
where Madison is a partner in the law firm of Wiener,
Weiss, Madison and Howell.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE J. CRADDOCK, a
son, Theodore Henly Jack, on March 16, 1981.
Craddock is a practicing attorney in Lynchburg, Va.

28

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT C. GASTROCK, a son,
Darren Robert, on April 11, 1980, in Anchorage,
Alaska. Gastrock is a marketing representative and
pilot for Air Logistics of Alaska, a division of Offshore
Logistics, Inc., of Lafayette, La. The firm specializes
in helicopter and aircraft support to petroleum ex-
ploration activities. He and his wife have two older
sons, Brian Tyler, 3, and Jason Scott, 7.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. REYNOLDS, a daugh-
ter, Sara Medora, on Feb. 17, 1981, in Nashville.

JOHN S. ANDERSON recently joined United Gas Pipe
Lines Co. in Houston, Texas, as senior attorney.

Mavis P. KELSEY JR. works in commercial and in-
vestment real estate brokerage in Houston and the
surrounding area. He and his wife, Wendy, have two
children, Winifred, 8, and Cooke, 4.

In October 1980, ROBERT H. MOLL joined the staff of
the office of the solicitor for the U.S. Department of
the Interior. He specializes in personnel law and
freedom of information. Moll had been in the general
counsel’s office of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment. He lives in McLean, Va.

JOHN R. NAZZARO is executive director of the Ports-
mouth Area United Way in Portsmouth, Va.

JOHN W. RICE JR., a native of Winchester, Va., has
been promoted to the rank of major in the U.S. Air
Force and is now directorate of nuclear surety at
Kirkland Air Force Base in Albuquerque, N. Mex.
Rice was recently decorated with the Meritorious
Service Medal at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska.
The medal is awarded for non-combat meritorious
achievement or service to the nation. Rice earned a
master’s degree in 1975 from the Air Force Institute
of Technology at the Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base in Ohio.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GreGcory B. CRAMPTON, a
daughter, Anna Madison, on Dec. 8, 1980, in Ra-
leigh, N.C. Crampton is a partner in the law firm of
Broughton, Wilkins and Crampton.

G. WILLIAM ALLEN Jr. is a partner in the Florida law
firm of Walton, Lantoff. He is in the Fort Lauderdale
office.

ROBERT M. BUXTON lives in New York and works in
international commodity merchandising in Geneva
and New York for Continental Grain Co.

CLARK H. CARTER earned the professional designation
of Chartered Life Underwriter in October 1980. He is
an independent insurance agent with the Baltimore
firm of Mason and Carter.

BRANDON C. MarTIN is a Special claims representa-
tive in the casualty-property claim department of The

Travelers Insurance Co. in Richmond. He lives in
Petersburg with his wife, Alice, and 2-year-old son,
John. In the fall of 1980, Martin was elected president
of the Old Dominion Chapter of the National Railway
Historical Society. Several items from his personal
collection of toy trains are on loan to the national
museum of the Train Collectors Association at Stras-
burg, Pa., near the Pennsylvania State Railroad
Museum.

In May W. WILLIAM MELNYK will graduate from the
Seminary at the University of the South. He will be
ordained a deacon in the Episcopal Diocese of Upper
South Carolina on June 13. After a year as a deacon-
in-training, Melnyk will be eligible for ordination to
the priesthood.

AL G. READING is executive vice president of Houston
City Downtown Bank.

PHILIP E. STACKHOUSE of Baltimore is vice-president
of the First National Bank of Maryland.

ADDISON G. WILSON is taking leave from his Colum-
bia, S.C., law practice to serve as deputy general
counsel for the Department of Energy in Washington.

1970
MARRIAGE: ALAN P. MarIAN and DONNA FINCH
on Feb. 21, 1981. Marian practices law in the Phil-
adelphia firm of Joseph F. Lombardo and performs in
various musical groups. They live in Huntingdon
Valley.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER D. COURSEN,
twin sons, Cameron Dennison and Matthew Ash-
bolt on Feb. 2, 1981. The family lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN, a
second daughter, Margaret Virginia, on May 30,
1980. Fleishman is certified by the American Board
of Surgery. He has also been named a director of the
board of the Eden Chamber of Commerce.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. HAMLIN, a
daughter, Kristin Elizabeth, on July 30, 1980. Hamlin
is working on commercial air freight applications in
the advanced program planning department for the
Lockheed-Georgia Co. in Marietta. He had been di-
rector of schedule planning for Texas International
Airlines in Houston.

BIRTH; Mk. and Mrs. JOHN M. KEFAUVER JR., twin
daughters, Laura Anne and Megan Michelle, on Jan.
13, 1981, in Rice, Wash. Kefauver is a farmer near
Rice.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MALCOLM H. SQuIRES JR., a
son, Malcolm Hart III, on March 2, 1981. The family
lives in Charlottesville, Va.

T. KENNETH CRIBB JR., a native of Spartanburg,
S.C., has been named a legal advisor for policy
development on President Reagan’s White House
staff. Cribb was the Reagan campaign’s deputy chief

 

counsel and a member of the transition staff. Cribb
was formerly with Intercollegiate Studies Institute,
Inc., of Bryn Mawr, Pa., as its national director.
After graduation from the University of Virginia Law
School, he joined the Washington, D.C., office of a
New York law firm.

MaJ. C. GILBERT FRANK is a first year neonatal
fellow at Fitzsimmons Army Medical Center in Den-
ver.

ROBERT C. LEE has been named the city planner for
Buena Vista, Va. He earned his master’s degree in
urban and regional planning from Virginia Tech and
most recently was a research assistant in housing at
Appalachian State University in Boone, N.C.

JOHN M. NOLAN has been appointed Northeast re-
gional director of customer services for the U.S.
Postal Service. Nolan will be responsible for all retail
sales, delivery and postal vehicle operations, for more
than 3,000 postal facilities throughout the region. He
began his postal career as a management intern in
Washington, D.C., in 1970. He and his wife, the
former Joyce Franey, have two children.

E. OWEN Perry III was appointed vice president and
general manager of Southland Timber, a subsidiary
of Canal Industries, Inc., and a major dealer in forest
products and timberland in eastern Georgia. He lives
in Augusta with his wife, Betty, and daughters, Laura
and Beth.

CHARLES F. URQUHART III (See 1964.)

1971
MARRIAGE: Dr. MICHAEL G. FLORENCE and Gwen
Kanemori on Aug. 10, 1981. Florence is amember of
the surgical faculty at the University of Washington.
He will enter private practice in Seattle this summer.

MARRIAGE: KEvIn E. O’Grapy and Susan F. Zlot-
low on Sept. 2, 1979. O’Grady, an assistant pro-
fessor of psychology at the University of New Mexi-
co, earned an M.S. degree in 1976 from Old Domi-
nion University and the Ph.D. in clinical psychology
in August 1980 at the University of Connecticut.

MARRIAGE: Paut D. WILBER and JoAnn Hastings
on Oct. 4, 1980, in Berlin, Md. Wilber is an attorney
in Salisbury, Md., and they live in Pittsville.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN B. KING JR., a daughter,
Karen Lynne, on Oct. 29, 1980, in Virginia Beach.
She has two older brothers. King practices law with
the Norfolk firm of Vandeventer, Black, Meredith
and Martin.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. LEE MILLAR III, a son,
Glenn Lee IV, on July 30, 1980, in Memphis. Millar
is a systems analyst for First Tennessee National
Corp.

ALBERT ANGRISANT is assistant secretary of labor for
employment and training. He is in charge of CETA,

unemployment insurance and a number of other fed-
eral programs. Angrisani and his wife, Caroline, live
in Arlington.

Dr. STEPHEN CLEMENT practices gastroenterology
in Richmond.

HENRY A. HARKEY, an attorney in Charlotte, N.C.,
is the recipient of the 1980 Mecklenburg County
Distinguished Service Award, presented by the Char-
lotte Jaycees. Harkey has represented the Charlotte
Fire Dept., indigent defendents, and neglected chil-
dren in court as well as working with the Boy Scouts
and prison ministries from the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church.

MARSHALL B. MILLER Jr. has been elected to the
board of trustees of Trinity University in San Antonio,
Texas. After serving as an intern with the Denver
regional office of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, Miller joined the San Antonio law firm of
Gresham, Davis, Gregory, Worthy & Moore as an
associate in 1974 and became a partner in 1980.
Miller is a member of the American, Texas, and San
Antonio Bar Associations. He is married to the former
Elizabeth Tobin Gillespie. The Miller family’s record
of service to Trinity University spans three genera-
tions and four decades. Miller’s grandfather, a retired
Sears Roebuck executive, is a trustee emeritus of
Trinity, and is recognized for his 40 years of con-
tinuous service to Trinity and to educational leadership
in San Antonio.

Dr. THOMAS E. REYNOLDs has joined the Culpeper
(Va.) Family Practice Associates. He and his wife,
Charla, have a year-old son, Thomas Keith.

ROGER L. YOUNG graduated from the McGeorge
School of Law in Sacramento, Calif. on May 30,
1980. He is now with the Judge Advocate General’s
office at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Golds-
boro, N.C. Young and his wife have two children,
Jeanne, 9, and Roger Jr., 7.

1972
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. RALPH D. CALDRONEY, a
daughter, Louisa Proffit, on Aug. 30, 1980, in Lex-
ington, Ky. Caldroney is assistant professor of medi-
cine at the University of Kentucky Medical School.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. GRAYSON FITZHUGH, a
daughter, Amelia Nicole, on Aug. 1, 1980, in Mid-
dletown, Ohio. Fitzhugh is manager of purchasing
for Akers Packaging Service.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ALBERT P. MCWHORTER, a
second son, Lee Parrish, on Jan. 10, 1981. McWhor-
ter is the assistant general director of the Young
Men’s Christian Association in Montgomery, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, a
son, William Sands, on Nov. 23, 1980, in Tampa.
Robinson is a labor lawyer with the firm of Fowler,
White, Gillen, Boggs, Villareal and Banker.

Dr. J. HUDSON ALLENDER is working on a fellowship

in pediatric cardiology at the University of Pennsyl-
vania.

Mark W. GROBMYER became a partner in the Little
Rock law firm of Davidson, Plastarios, Horne, Hol-
linsworth and Arnold. He has been chairman of the
Arkansas State Claims Commission and a member of
the State of Arkansas Civil Service Commission.

GILBERT S. MEEM Jr., a vice president with E. F.
Hutton & Company, Inc., has been elected a member
of the company’s advisory council.

Dr. FREDRICK H. SANDs is completing a fellowship
in adolescent medicine at the University of Washing-
ton in Seattle.

JOSEPH R. SLAy has been named managing editor of
Richmond Life Style magazine.

BRANDON C. MArtTIN (See 1969.)

1973

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. FRENCH, a son,
Hamilton Lee, on Feb. 20, 1981, in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. MuNT JR., ason,
Christopher Randolph, on April 8, 1980, in Lexing-
ton, N.C. Munt is a pediatrician in private practice
there.

Grecory P. Bucn is the scenic designer for the
Playhouse at East Carolina University in Greenville,
N.C. He earned the M.F.A. degree at Smith College.

LAWRENCE G. COHEN has resigned as partner in the
firm of Kirlin, Campbell & Keating to accept the
position of maritime counsel for Exxon Corp. in New
York City.

DOUGLAS A. ForsyTH is assigned to the senior trial
staff of the Circuit Attorney’s office in St. Louis. He
specializes in prosecution of major felonies and career
criminals.

BLAINE R. KEMETHER is a Senior security officer for
Playboy at Great Gorge, N.J.

JAY H. KERN earned a private law practice with the
New Orleans firm of Simon, Peragine, Smith and
Redfearn in March 1979. He had spent three years in
the construction litigation section of the Louisiana
Department of Justice. Kern lives in Jefferson.

In the summer of 1981, J. JASON MATTHEWS will
complete his tour at the embassy in Athens as a
research analyst for the Department of Defense. He
expects another four year tour for the State Depart-
ment somewhere in Western Europe.

FREDERICK W. WoopwakrbD III is a senior account
representative in the aviation/aerospace division of
Marsh and McLennan, Inc., insurance brokers in
New York.

MALCOLM H. Squires Jr. (See 1970.)
29

CLASS NOTES

E. STARKE SYDNOR (See 1966.)

1974

MARRIAGE: TEMPLETON SMITH JR. and Lea Eliza-
beth Anderson on Aug. 2, 1980. Alumni attending
the wedding included Fred Spangler, ’74, Ted Mer-
rick, ’76, Tom Armstrong, ’75, Steve Heinecke, ’74,
and Bill Driscoll, ’76. Smith is associated with the
Pittsburgh law firm of Rose, Schmidt, Dixon, Hasley,
Whyte and Hardesty. His wife is a graduate of West
Virginia University and its law school.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. MorGan O. DOoo_itTLE III, a
daughter, Erin Elizabeth, on Feb. 3, 1981, in Avon,
Conn.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RALPH E. GARNER, a daugh-
ter, Dorothea Elizabeth, on Aug. 27, 1980, in Win-
ston-Salem, N.C. Garner acquired a private pilot’s
license in September.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RICHARD H. METCALF, ason,
Prescott Witman, on Feb. 5, 1980, in Mechanicsburg,
Pa. Metcalf is a reporter for The Patriot-News in
Harrisburg. |

DENNIS C. GILCHRIST became a partner in the Green-
ville, S.C., law firm of Leatherwood, Walker, Todd
and Mann on Jan. 1, 1981.

JOHN S. LALLEY JR. is an assistant vice president in
the International Division of Maryland National Bank
in Baltimore and is responsible for multinational and
Canadian business development.

Dr. WILLIAM R. LAROSA Jr. will begin a plastic
surgery residency in July 1981.

PauL D. WILBER (See 1971.)

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDMOND B. (TED) GREGORY
Ill, a second daughter, Jane Brodie, on Jan. 22,
1981. Gregory is with Linton Shafer and Co., an
accounting firm in Frederick, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS HERBERT HUNT, a
son, Taylor Flynn, on Oct. 14, 1980. Hunt is engaged
in oil and gas production with the Hunt Energy Cor-
poration in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Gary R. KNICK, a daughter,
Stacy, on May 25, 1980, in Martinsburg, W.Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR., ason,
Joseph Edward III, on Nov. 11, 1980, in Rochester,
Minn.

ROBERT K. BAILEy III earned his master’s degree in
public administration at George Washington Univer-
sity. He is working in Virginia Beach as an account
manager and assistant auditor for Ford Motor Credit.

SAMUEL M. BELL is in his second year of a graduate
business administration program at the Graduate

30

School of Business of Columbia University in New
York City.

Mark V. Corey is an insurance agent working on
commercial and personal property casualty in the
greater Pittsburgh area.

RICHARD R. COUNCILL earned his M.B.A. from the
University of Baltimore in June 1980. He is employed
at the Marine Office of America in Towson, Md.

WILLIAM E. FoRLAND Jr. is a buyer for Boeing
Aerospace Co. in Omaha, Neb.

PauL L. GoRSUCH graduated from Thomas Jefferson
Medical College in May 1980. He is an intern at the
University of California at San Francisco’s program
in Fresno. He plans to start a neurosurgery residency
in 1982.

CARLYLE GreEGory JR. has formed his own political
consulting firm which worked in three 1980 congres-
sional races. He is currently employed as a field
director by the National Republican Congressional
Committee and is responsible for coordinating party
efforts in 43 congressional races in 1982.

ANGELICA DipDiER LLoyp has been promoted to as-
sistant general solicitor by the Norfolk and Western
Railway in Roanoke.

TAVENNER C. LUPTON III is working for Republic
National Bank in Dallas.

MARK S. REIFSLAGER was a delegate to the four-
month long International Conference on Vedic
Science, held in Delhi, India. He is co-chairman of
the TM Program in Austin, Texas.

DaviD E. SHAFFNER has joined the C.P.A. firm of
Daniel, Pulliam, McKee and Company in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

STEVE VAN AMBURGH is in the blasting and explo-
sives business in Dallas.

FRANK L. (BUZ) WALTERS is vice president for tax
investments with Bache Halsey Stuart Shields, Inc.,
in San Francisco. The position involves coordination
of marketing of real estate and oil and gas investments
in the western region. He and his wife, Marianne,
live in Menlo Park, Calif.

Capt. JOEL A. WILLIAMS is senior defense counsel
with the U.S. Army Trial Defense Service in
Schweinfurt, West Germany.

1976

MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL B. HUBBARD and CLARA S.
SMITH, ’81L, on Aug. 9, 1980. Hubbard practices
with the firm of Maurice F. Biddle in Flint Hill, Va.

MARRIAGE: JOSEPH WALKER II and Tracie Elizabeth
Owens on Dec. 6, 1980, in Summerton, S.C. Attend-
ing the wedding were Claude M. Walker, ’41, Claude

M. Walker Jr., ’71, Robert C. Walker, ’38, Joseph
Walker Jr., °34, and classmates Julian J. Nexsen,
Scott M. Stevenson, Alan W. Pettigrew, G. Cleveland
McGehee III, and J. Lee Keiger III. The couple lives
in Columbia where Walker is employed by Joseph
Walker and Co. cotton merchants.

BIRTH: RICHARD T. WOULFE and his wife, L. Susan
Holden, ason, Gregory Douglas, on Nov. 4, 1980, in
Miami.

WILLIAM R. CoGar, formerly with Interstate Securi-
ties Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., has moved to Houston
where he is associated with Rotan Mosle, Inc., in
their corporate syndicate department. Cogar is married
to the former Ruth Collins.

RusH S. DICKSON is finishing a phase in retail opera-
tions management for Harris-Teeter Supermarkets,
Inc., of Charlotte, N.C. As part of the program,
Dickson opened a grocery store in a renovated and
preserved railroad station in the historic downtown
section of Charleston, S.C. The renovation project
won the 1980 Carolopis Award of the Charleston
Preservation Society.

JEFF B. DUSEK is a deputy district attorney for San
Diego County. He and his wife have two daughters,
Jessica, 4, and Becky, 2.

HrraM E-y III has joined the Louisville, Ky., law
firm of Greenebaum, Doll and McDonald. He
specializes in business litigation.

H. MyNDERS GLOVER and his wife, Martha, now live
in Richmond where he is associated with The Com-
puter Company in a planning and marketing manage-
ment role. He finished his M.B.A. at the University
of Virginia in May 1980.

ROBERT C. KELLY is associated with the Columbia,
S.C., law firm of Robinson, McFadden, Moore, Pope
and Stubbs.

TERRENCE L. McCartTIN is production manager for
Finkel Outdoor Products, Inc., manufacturers of out-
door summer furniture in Jacksonville. He was dis-
charged from the Army in October 1980 as a captain.

Dr. RICHARD O. WHITAKER is a partner in the Ashby
Animal Clinic, Inc., of Harrisonburg, Va. He is a
food animal veterinarian specializing in cattle repro-
duction. He is currently performing embryo transfers
in cattle.

ROBERT R. ZyYBLUT is attending the University of
Denver Law School and specializing in judicial ad-
ministration.

1977
MARRIAGE: E. MorGAN MAxwkELt III and Jacque-
line H. Goodin on August 30, 1980. Classmates
attending included Jeff Morris, Mike Rowan, Ted
Grosser, Steve Greenhalgh, Jim Webster and Doug
Thomas, ’74, ’77L. Maxwell is associated with the
Cleveland law firm of Arter and Hadden. Maxwell

 

 

visited W&L’s School of Law in October 1980 as a
representative of the firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BrucE E. BRENNAN, a
daughter, Beth, on Sept. 26, 1980, in Washington.
Brennan is staff attorney for Lawrence Johnson and
Associates, a research firm. He handles the firm’s
government contract disputes and affirmative action
plans and works on a project dealing with nondis-
crimination against the disabled.

W. Mark BERTON handles felony prosecutions for
the Dodge County (Nebr.) attorney’s office. He lives
in Fremont.

DaviD MEsScHUTT’s article, ‘‘Gilbert Stuart’s Por-
traits of Thomas Jefferson,’’ was published in the
Winter 1981 issue of The American Art Journal.

American Express Co. has named ROGER P. RYDELL
manager of public relations for the travel division. He
is responsible for developing and implementing mar-
keting support and media relations programs.

1978

MARRIAGE: Kak G. BAKER and Kathleen Marie Fer-
enchak on June 6, 1980, in Elyria, Ohio. In the wed-
ding party were Paul Harris, ’78, Kevin Grimm, ’78,
Angelo Santella, ’77, and Rob Sartelle, ’79. Baker is
the executive systems analyst for Harris Intertype
Corp. in Elyria. In May 1981 he will receive an
M.B.A. and begin a doctorate program in law. Baker
was inducted into Phi Delta Kappa at Cleveland State
University and Delta Mu Delta honorary business
fraternity at Baldwin-Wallace College for his out-
standing academic performance.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL A. BOWMAN, a
daughter, Rebecca LeAnne, on July 6, 1980, in Mon-
ticello, Iowa.

JULIAN H. Goon Jr. has been promoted to general
merchandising coordinator and product manager for
the Resilio Sportswear division of Wembley Indus-
tries in New Orleans.

GEORGE F. GriFFIN IV works for Montgomery Real-
ty, a firm dealing in commercial real estate in Wash-
ington, Maryland, and Northern Virginia. He lives in
Bethesda.

PETER C. KEEFE is a registered representative for
Johnston, Lemon and Company, a brokerage firm, in
the Washington office.

R. BorcE McGrew has been elected an operations
officer of Trust Company Bank in Atlanta. McGrew
works with Junior Achievement and the DeKalb
County Chamber of Commerce.

DEREK C. Swopt is a partner in the Princeton, W.Va.,
law firm of Sanders & Austin.

1979

MARRIAGE: JOHN E. MCDONALD Jr. and Giovanna

Whitridge Forsyth on June 28, 1980, in Garrison
Forest, Md. Frederick J. Forsyth, ’81, the bride’s
brother, and John E. McDonald, ’54, father of the
groom, were members of the wedding party. They
live in Philadelphia where McDonald works for Proc-
ter and Gamble.

BIRTH: RICHARD P. GopDARD and his wife, Anne
Unverzagt, a son, Timothy Unverzagt on Oct. 22,
1980, in Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

RICHARD M. BARRON is an editorial assistant at the
Winston-Salem Journal.

ROBERT M. BuRKHOLDER is in his second year of law
school at American University.

MICHAEL J. Doopy is a financial analyst for a Wash-
ington consulting firm. He lives in McLean, Va.

FREDERICK L. A. FRANCK is a marketing representa-
tive for Continental Telephone System in western
North Carolina. He lives in Sylva.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV is enrolled in the master
of actuarial science program at Georgia State Univer-
sity in Atlanta. He has passed three parts of the
Society of Actuaries examinations and will graduate
in August. He will then start work as an actuarial
assistant.

C. STEPHEN JONES JR. has recently been promoted to
personnel manager for Burlington Sportswear at their
Mooresville, N.C., Plant.

M. TUCKER LaFFITTE is in his second year at the
Medical University of South Carolina. He was married
in July 1980 to Helen Harvey.

DONALD P. NOBLE is attending law school at the
University of Texas and will be a clerk for two San
Antonio firms during the summer.

J. WILLIAM PIERCE JR. is a second-year law student at
Mercer University.

JOHN S. PLOWDEN is a first-year student at the Medi-
cal College of Georgia in Augusta. He is also active
in Young Life, a high school Christian group, Plow-
den taught fifth and sixth grade science at Holy Inno-
cents Episcopal School in Atlanta last year.

LYNNE E. PRyMaS is an associate with the Washington
law firm of Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering.

DIANNE GIBSON RINGER is an assistant Common-
wealth’s Attorney for the city of Portsmouth, Va.

ANDREW T. SANDERS JR. recently finished work in
the correspondent bank and cash management division
of First and Merchants National Bank in Richmond,
Va. He has completed over a year in their commercial
management training program.

JOHN P. STAFFORD works for Brooks Brothers in
Pittsburgh and is actively involved at the Fox Chapel
Presbyterian Church.

JAMES A. TOMMINS is a marketing representative for
West Point Pepperell in the Dallas office with respon-
sibility for retail accounts in Texas, Oklahoma and
Arkansas. He joined the firm in October 1979 in New
York and moved to Dallas in February 1980.

In June 1980 DouGLas K. WILLIs became an advisory
marketing representative for IBM in the Baltimore
central branch office.

MICHAEL B. HUBBARD (See 1976.)

1980

In the fall of 1981, JACQUELYN K. BoyDEN will
become an associate in the litigation section of the
Fairfax law firm of McCandlish, Lillard, Church and
Best.

ROBERT C. CAMPBELL is working for Citizens First
National Bank of New Jersey.

SALLY PRUETT FALCK is associated with the New
York law firm of Satterlee and Stephens.

THOMAS E. Goss Jr. is employed by Shearson Loeb
Rhoades, Inc., a security and commodity exchange
firm in Cleveland.

JOHN C. HAMILTON is in the management training
program of First National Bank of South Carolina in
Columbia.

JAMES E. MENDOZA works in the computer systems
division of the Harris Corp. in the Fort Lauderdale
area.

JESSE M. SHAVER III is working on an M.B.A. at the
University of Chicago School of Business.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1912

RUSSELL BRUCE WINE, an attorney in San Antonio,
died Jan. 9, 1981. A native of Broadway, Va., he
began his law practice in the Circuit Court of Rock-
ingham County. Due to his father’s health, the family
moved to San Antonio in 1913. Wine practiced law in
San Antonio for over 60 years, as assistant U.S.
Attorney for the Western District of Texas for four
years, and as U.S. Attorney under President Eisen-
hower. He was with the Bexar County District Attor-
ney’s office for four years. Wine received several
certificates from the Texas State Bar. During World
War I he was a captain in the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s office. He was a member of the Selective
Service Board for 15 years. A master Mason, Wine
became worshipful master in 1939-40. He was past
high priest of Burleson Lodge #21 and a past district
deputy grand master of Texas Masons. He was a
member of the American and Texas Bar Associations
and the Commandery #7 Knight Templar.

3]

IN MEMORIAM

1917

JAMES W. JONES SR., chairman of the board of Jones-
Cox Mortgage Corp. of Dallas, died Feb. 3, 1981. He
was past president of the Dallas Mortgage Bankers
Association and the Texas Mortgage Bankers Asso-
ciation. For a number of years he was on the board of
governors of the Mortgage Bankers Association of
America and was athletic director at Sam Houston
State University for 13 years.

1919

TAZEWELL BUCHANAN, a former partner of the
Richmond law firm of Scott and Buchanan and former
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Goochland County,
died July 3, 1979. Tazewell served with the Army in
World War I.

1921

Dr. JOSEPH PATRICK TRECCASE, of Glenshaw, Pa.,
died Jan. 7, 1981. He received his degree from the
Medical College of Virginia and practiced in Butler.
He served as a lieutenant colonel in World War II and
was associated with the Veterans Administration until
his retirement in 1975.

1922

CHARLES HUNTER WATKINS, who retired in 1964
after 37 years with Manufacturer’s Hanover Bank,
died Nov. 15, 1980, in Richmond, Va. Watkins was
a member of the World War I Student Army Training
Corp, Company B, at Washington and Lee.

1925

CHARLES IRVEN HEARTT, a retired employee of the
North Carolina Fire Insurance Rating Bureau, died
Aug. 24, 1980, in Raleigh.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON, a nationally known com-
mercial and trial lawyer from Meridian, Miss., died
in Houston, on Feb. 8, 1981, the day after having
been presented a Fifty-Year Award in honor of his
legal career by the American Bar Foundation.
Witherspoon was a founder and early president of
Scribes, the American Society of Writers on Legal
Subjects. He was also a former associate editor of the
Commercial Law Journal. In 1979 Witherspoon re-
ceived the Lawyer Citation Award from the Missis-
sippi State Bar in honor of his career. He was presi-
dent of the state bar in 1951 and the Lauderdale
County Bar in 1943. Witherspoon was president of
the Meridian Downtown Kiwanis Club and was
governor of Kiwanis International for the Louisiana-
Mississippi-West Tennessee district in 1964.

1926

MEYER Lu GOODMAN, a retired executive of Good-
man & Co., aCPA firm in Norfolk, Va., died Feb. 9,
1981. After graduation from W&L Goodman joined
the staff of A. Lee Rawlings & Co., and remained
with them until August 1932. From 1932 until 1945
he was associated with the firm of Jackson, Goodman
& Co. He dissolved that partnership and was in private

a2

practice until Goodman & Co. was formed. Goodman
was a member of the Virginia Society of Public
Accountants and a fellow of the American Institute of
Accountants.

1928

BURNELL BUTLER TIPs of Kenedy, Texas, died Nov.
20, 1980. While at Washington and Lee Tips was an
outstanding member of the football team. He was a
long-time resident and rancher in Kenedy.

1929

EVERETTE HARRIS GEE, a retired tobacconist, died
Feb. 9, 1981, at his home in Fuquay-Varina, N.C.
Harris was a retired vice president of the North State
Tobacco Co., Inc. For many years he had been em-
ployed with the International Planters Corp. of Rich-
mond, Va., and Fairmont, N.C.

JAMES NATHAN HARsH died Jan. 6, 1981, in Destin,
Fla. Harsh had been ill for some years. He had been in
the contracting business.

ROBERT LEE HEARNE of Petersburg, Va., a retired
executive of Brown/Williamson Tobacco Corp., died
Dec. 5, 1980.

1931

FRED COOLEDGE PACE, a one-time employee of Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Co., died in Pinehurst, N.C., on
Aug. 18, 1980. Pace was also a priest in the Episcopal
Church.

WILLIAM C. WAGNER, Chairman of the board and
former president of York Bank and Trust Co., died
Dec. 22, 1980, in York, Pa.

 

1934

LUTHER ANDERSON GALYON, a Knoxville, Tenn.,
businessman, civic leader, and onetime lawyer, died
Jan. 23, 1981, after a long illness. He was president
of the Tennessee Eastern Lumber Co. Galyon gradu-
ated from the University of Tennessee Law School
and joined the firm of Poore, Kramer and Overton.
After World War II he rejoined the firm but soon left
to join his father-in-law in the lumber business. He
was a member of the board of Presbyterian Hospital.

1938

WILLIAM HERBERT HILLIER, a partner in the Chicago
law firm of Lord Bissell & Brook and a former
member of the Alumni Board of Directors, died March
12, 1981. Hillier obtained his law degree from the
University of Michigan where he was editor-in-chief
of the law review and a member of the Order of the
Coif. He was a director of Central Du Page Hospital
in Winfield, Ill., and the Beverly Farm Foundation in
Godfrey. He was a retired lieutenant colonel from the
Army where he received the Silver and Bronze Stars,
the Purple Heart and the Croix de Guerre.

1939

Dr. WILLIAM WESLEY GROVER JrR., a physician in
Bonduel, Wis., died Jan. 10, 1981. Grover was a
member of the Bonduel Clinic. He was also a former
member of the boards of the Bonduel Community
School, the Northeast Wisconsin Health Systems
Agency, and the Emergency Medical Services Coun-
cil.

WILLIAM WATSON Mayor Jr., who retired in 1976
after 32 years with Sears Roebuck Co., died Sept. 7,
1980.

THOMAS C. NUGENT JrR., president of Nugent Sand
Co. of Louisville, Ky., died Feb. 28, 1981, while
vacationing in the British West Indies. Nugent began
working with the company in 1937 and became presi-
dent in 1941. He was a director of the National Sand
and Gravel Association.

1942

CARLYLE BENTON ROSEN, a former automobile
dealer in Leesburg and Herndon, Va., died Feb. 14,
1981. During World War II he was in the Navy.

1943

ALBERT DANIEL TULL, an attorney in Cartersville,
Ga., died Nov. 25, 1980. Tull was a former alderman,
recorder and juvenile court referee for the city.

1967

THOMAS COOPER MOON Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla.,
vice president of Moon Furniture Co., died on Feb. 6,
1981. He received the B.A. and M.A.T. degrees in
history and political science at Jacksonville Univer-
sity. He was a member of the Sons of the Con-
federacy, Phi Alpha Theta honor society, and River-
side Baptist Church.

 

 

 

 

 

The steeple of Lee Chapel is reflected in the Washing-
ton and Lee Mirror with Ahern hand-tinted print
matted at the top. The mirror is available with frame
finished in French gold or Colonial cherry.

Now available .. .

Panoramic Prints
Of the Front Campus
Of Washington and Lee

A sweeping, delicately rendered view of Washington
and Lee’s historic Front Campus, drawn by artist Rich
Ahern, is available in hand-tinted full color or in black
and white and in two sizes. It is also available com-
bined with a handsome mirror with frame finished in
French gold or Colonial cherry. These prints and the
mirror will complement both traditional and con-
temporary homes. Shipped by U.P.S.

MIRROR—Outside measurements 15 by 24%,
(mirror itself 14 by 17%), frame in French
gold or Colonial cherry, hand-tinted print
matted at the top ................0eeeeeeeee es 125.00
(Add $12.50 for shipping)
SMALL PRINT—Outside measurements
17 by 8 Hand-tinted Color—double

matted and shrink wrapped ................$ 29.75
Color Print only .................:eeeeeeeeee BD 18.50
Black and White ..................:..20020-3 5.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)

LARGE PRINT—Outside measurements 27% by 10%
Hand-tinted Color—double matted and

shrink wrapped .............:.::eeceeeeeeeeeD 56.20
Color Print only ..................cc0eeeeeeeeB 32.50
Black and White ......................02202.-9 8.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.
Make checks payable to the Washington and Lee Bookstore.

Send your order to:

The Bookstore
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

The Alumni M agazine of Second Class Postage Paid
i At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

CF

 

  
         

  

&
ws
™
.

9 @ @ e x
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc. 2
Presents... io

<x 2

One
o =>

ad
woe
(= < ©
—<eoeF
& =
2 =
eee
pENe

August 19-26, 1981
Dulles Departure :

FOR-ONLY... =>

$599.00 ~ ==

Per person-double occupancy

   

ty
- — *
pr

       
    

>

My WRAY)
en —— ee ki aL
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: fe er Et bee] een
QO Round trip jet transportation to Idaho Falls, Idaho via United Airlines’ DC-8 aircraft (meals and GR 7 uote tl 7, |
beverages served aloft). 1. Deluxe accommodations forfour nights in Sun Valley, Idaho at the mag- a
nificent Sun Valley Resort LodgeandInn.* O Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring
white water rafti ng andtroutfries. [© Deluxe motorcoach transfer from Sun Valley to West Yellow- For further information and
stone, Montana via the Craters of the Moon National Park. O Charming western accommodations reservation coupon, contact:
in West Yellowstone for three nights.* 1 Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring Yellow- W.C. Washburn, Washinaton
stone National Park. 1 All gratuities for bellmen and chambermaids. 0 Allround trip transfers and a . ‘ g :
luggage handling from airport to hotels. 0) Pre-registration at hotels. Arthurs Travel’s Sun Valley/ and Lee University Alumni,
Yellowstone National Park Travel Tips. O Free time to pursue your own interests. No regimentation. Inc. Lexington, Virginia
CJ) Experienced tour directors and hotel hospitality desks, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site teamof 24450 PHONE:(703) 463-9111
professionals. *Some trips will be four nights Yellowstone National Park/three nights Sun Valley. EXTENSION 214

  
 
  
  

   
  
 
 

  

 

 

 

 

Wedgwood plates in sets of four different scenes:

WASHINGTON Lee Chapel; Washington College (1857); Lee-Jack-

AND son House; Washington College (contemporary).
Available in blue only.

LEE Price: $100.00 including shipping charges.

COMMEMORATIVE Send order and check to

PLATES Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

