 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 56, Number 4, July 1981

William C. Washburn, ’40 ........... ccc ccc eee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ................ cece cece neces Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, ’80 2.0.00... . 0. cece eee ee eee Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter a..c.2 05. . Yale ei eeeeed eee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ........... esc ce cece ee ee eee ee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Commencement 1981 ............0:.:005:09 2 1
W. W. Pusey Hl Retires .......2..046..2.. 3 6
Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni ............ 8
Reunion Weekend 1981 .:.....0..05:.22 9
Corrigan Revisited :...........2........ = 12
Reunion Sampler .....:...0....::4.. 14
W&L Gavzetle 2.2258. 17
Lee Kahn, 1934-1981 ....c3. ae 26
Schwab in Boston Marathon ....................seeeeee ees 28
Spring Sports Roundup: .:.. 2.02. ..6.0.. c.g 30
(Chapter Hews 23..°4 342.0. 8. 33
Class Nagi. eo ee 34
ln Memonram.: a ee 42

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 751, Nashville, Tenn.
President

JOHN H. McCorMacx Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
Vice President

W. DONALD Bain, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
EpGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.

OwEN H. Harper, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.

SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio

G. RUSSELL LADD, ’57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.

WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., 756, Crossett, Ark.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

oy

&

ON THE COVER: The 1981 undergraduate commence-
ment exercises begin as University Marshal Westbrook
Barritt steps out of the door of Washington Hall and stands
while the academic procession moves to the commence-
ment site in front of the Lee House. Stories on the under-
graduate and law commencements, held separately again
this year, begin on Page 1. Photograph by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee awarded diplomas
to 263 seniors and conferred honorary
degrees on three prominent alumni in
commencement exercises June 4.

The ceremony was held, as is custom, on
the lawn in front of the Lee House. The
weather cooperated—but just barely. After
threatening to dampen the proceedings (if not
the soaring spirits), the rain showers waited
until an hour after President Robert E. R.
Huntley’s traditional speech to the seniors,
their families and friends.

The honorary degrees this year were
presented to the following alumni:

William E. Brock III, Class of ’53,
former Congressman and Senator from
Tennessee and now United States special
trade representative with Cabinet rank;

Dr. Irwin Taylor Sanders, Class of ’29,

noted sociologist, professor emeritus and
former head of the sociology and
anthropology department at Boston
University;

Sol Wachtler, Class of 51, and Law
Class of ’52, judge of the New York State
Court of Appeals, the highest court in the
state of New York.

As usual, commencement activities began
with the baccalaureate sermon on June 3.
The sermon was anything but usual,
however.

James Takashi Yashiro, dean of students
at Rikkyo University in Tokyo, Japan,
delivered the sermon and elicited lengthy
applause from the audience—the first time in
anyone’s memory that baccalaureate remarks
had drawn such vocal response.

Yashiro spent the 1980-81 academic year

DEGREES
AWARDED
TO 373
COLLEGE
AND LAW
SENIORS

Three Alumni Are Honored
In Traditional Ceremony;
Visiting Japanese Scholar
Delivers Baccalaureate

President Huntley presents one of 263 diplomas at
undergraduate commencement exercises on June 4.
Law degrees went to 110 men and women on May 24.

at Washington and Lee as Howerton Scholar-
in-Residence, a visiting professorship
endowed by the Philip Fullerton Howerton
Endowment Fund.

In his sermon, Yashiro drew comparisons
between his own experiences as an
undergraduate at Kenyon College and the
college careers of the students graduating
from W&L.

Yashiro noted that the education the
seniors had received at W&L ‘‘is not
possible unless you can afford leisure or
Spare time.”’

“What I want you to know,’’ he
continued, “‘is that those of us who have
enjoyed leisure easily forget that there are
many who simply do not have such leisure for
studies.”’

Secondly, Yashiro suggested that ‘‘the

COMMENCEMENT ’81

 

Rev. James T. Yashiro, Howerton Scholar-in-Residence, delivered the baccalaureate sermon.

2

kind of education you and I received . . . is
based on freedom.”’

Education based on freedom, said
Yashiro, ‘‘makes you think for yourselves
and stand on your own feet. . . . But unless
the ground on which you stand is firm, you
will tumble down.’’

Freedom, he added, ‘‘is not freedom to
do simply what one wants to do. Freedom is
freedom to serve God and one’s
neighbors. . . . The kind of education you
have received here has made you free and
will continue to nurture that freedom, but
you are free not only for your own sake but
for others also.”’

Yashiro recalled his experience in a first-
year English class at Kenyon. The class was
taught by John Crowe Ransom, a noted
literary critic, and Yashiro remembered the
rather humiliating way in which his
pronounciation was corrected by Ransom.

‘‘This mean teacher,’’ Yashiro said,
referring to Ransom, ‘‘often made me read a
few sentences from the textbook. Then he
would come to my side, and in order to teach
me how to pronounce a certain word, he
would move and twist my lips in front of the
other students. You can imagine how
embarrassed I was.”’

But, Yashiro added, ‘“‘I still feel grateful
to this mean teacher for all the trouble that he
took on my behalf. It was a kind of
education with a ‘personal touch’ or an
education involving a real encounter between
human beings. I was a student from Japan
with which America had been at war not
many years before. But somehow this man
could not ignore me; he could not regard me
as just an impersonal object for his
instruction.’’

Having received an education in such an
environment, Yashiro suggested, makes it
impossible to be indifferent to others.

‘‘T am fully convinced,’’ Yashiro
concluded, ‘‘that the kind of education you
received here at this University will forever
make you free to serve others and will never
allow you to be indifferent to them.”’

Yashiro’s remarks were followed by a
luncheon given by the Alumni Association
for the graduates and their guests.

The undergraduate commencement
exercises began with the Reserved Officers
Training Corps commissioning ceremony.

 

 

Dr. Irwin T. Sanders, ’29

Eighteen graduating seniors were
commissioned. Speaker for the ceremony
was Major General Louis Holmes Ginn III,
Commanding General of the 80th Training
Division. Ginn’s appearance actually served
two purposes. Not only did he address the
newly-commissioned second lieutenants, but
he also watched his son, Louis Holmes Ginn
IV, receive one of the commissions during
the ceremony.

President Huntley’s remarks to the
graduates were aimed at the relationship
between education and character.

Huntley suggested that ‘‘the reason for
education is found in the nature of man. He
is educable, and therefore it is important that
he become educated. The mountain-climber
climbs the mountain because it is there; we
seek to unfold the mind because it is there,
and it is inconceivable to us that it could be
desirable to leave it folded, like a closed
blossom. A person is not a person at all if his
mind does not function, if he exists solely on
the plane of instinct and appetite.’’

Education, he added, ‘‘is inevitable, in
the nature of man.”’

 

illiam E. Brock L

Admitting that education may lead in
certain directions ‘‘which are antithetical to
character,’’ Huntley said that ‘‘we may
nevertheless be assured that it need not do
sO.

‘“We may also be assured by this; the
educated mind is the disciplined mind, and
discipline is an ingredient of character and
honesty. Character requires judgment, which
implies wise selection among alternatives.
The educated mind is aware of the
alternatives, and the necessity to choose does
not necessarily lead to paralysis. Character
requires high ethics, which implies the
Capacity to foresee and appreciate the moral
consequences of one’s action. Such a
capacity is enlarged by education.’’

Huntley concluded that ‘‘education is not
antithetical to character; rather it makes the
lack of character more glaring, more evident,
and more dangerous. Education makes us
powerful people; without character that
power may be destructive of ourselves and of
others. With character, that power can, like
faith, move mountains.”’

‘*Education is what we are going to have

    
 

 

   

ol Wachtler, ’51, ’52L
if we are going to be persons, human beings.
Character is what we must have if we are
going to be good human beings, good
people. I want both. I want both for you. I
pray that my wish for you and for me will be
granted.’’

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion, conferred by the faculty on the
graduating student who has most
conspiciously excelled ‘‘in high ideals of
living, in inspirational qualities, and in
generous and disinterested service to
others,’’ was presented to Robert H. Willis
Jr. of St. Petersburg. Willis, president of the
student body, became the second W&L
student to win both the Sullivan Medallion
and the Frank J. Gilliam Award.

Brett Alan Wohler was the 1981
valedictorian, graduating summa cum laude
with a bachelor of science degree in an
interdepartmental major in mathematics and
natural science. Wohler compiled a perfect
4.0 cumulative grade-point average, the
seventh student to achieve that distinction
since 1963. Wohler became the second
Lexington High School graduate in the last

COMMENCEMENT ’81

 

Gen. Ginn congratulates a new 2nd lieutenant.

four years to become W&L’s valedictorian.
In 1978, James Sheridan, a Lexington High
School graduate, also was valedictorian and
also had a 4.0 cumulative average.

In the graduating class, 15 students
received summa cum laude honors for
academic excellence; magna cum laude
distinctions went to 26 students and cum
laude to 66.

The honorary degree recipients were
recognized for having distinguished
themselves in different areas of service.

Brock was in the political spotlight last
year when, as chairman of the Republican
National Committee, he was credited with
directing the campaign that not only captured
the presidency and the Senate, but resulted in
a substantial increase of Republican
representation in the House of
Representatives and in state offices.

The honorary degree citation for Brock
noted that ‘‘the first premise of his political
philosophy has been the necessity of
involving youth in government.”’ It further
stated that Brock has demonstrated ‘‘that a
public servant can also be an educator, that

4

  
   

Robert H. Willis J

r. addressed the graduates.

a Republican with a big ‘R’ can also be a
democrat with a small ‘d’. . . .”’ He received
the honorary Doctor of Laws degree.

Dr. Sanders, a magna cum laude graduate
of Washington and Lee, is widely regarded
as an expert on the human community. He is
the author of numerous publications, and his
book, The Community: An Introduction to a
Social System, is considered a classic in the
field of urban sociology.

In the honorary degree citation, it was
noted that Sanders had, in his 1979 Phi Beta
Kappa address at W&L, exhorted the
audience ‘‘not to overlook the ‘Noblesse
Oblige of the Mind.’ ’’ The citation added that
‘‘His own distinguished career as teacher,
scholar, and administrator is ample proof that
he has more than succeeded in living up to
his own admonition.’’ He received the
honorary Doctor of Letters degree.

Wachtler, who was elected in 1972 asa
judge of the New York State Court of
Appeals, was active in many phases of
campus life while at Washington and Lee.
He served as Vice President of the Student
Body, President of Omicron Delta Kappa,

 

Law graduates march along the Colonnade.

and organizer and first President of the
Student Bar Association in the W&L law
school.

An eminent jurist, the honorary degree
citation noted that Wachtler has been
recognized by honorary degrees and
distinguished service awards from several
schools and added that he has ‘‘distinguished
himself as a community leader, a legal
scholar, and a perceptive and compassionate
judge.’’ He received the honorary Doctor of
Laws degree.

LAW COMMENCEMENT

Washington and Lee awarded law
degrees to 110 men and women during the
School of Law’s commencement exercises on
May 24.

Members of the graduating class revived
an old W&L tradition by carrying canes
during the ceremony.

The reappearance of the canes proved
particularly appropriate since President
Robert E. R. Huntley used the occasion as
an opportunity to provide the graduates and
their families and friends with some glimpses

into the law school’s historic past.

‘“Your roots are now, in part, here in this
school,’’ Huntley told the graduates. ‘‘So
perhaps you will want to know about some
earlier beginnings and some of those who went
before.”’

Huntley then detailed the law school’s
growth through a series of anecdotes, many
of which chronicled the impact various
individuals had on shaping the law school.

Since no one individual had any more
impact than John Randolph Tucker, the first
dean of the law school, it was only fitting

Renewal of a tradition—canes for law grads.

 

that Huntley concluded his remarks by
relating parts of a commencement address
Dean Tucker gave at W&L in 1877.
Noting that Dean Tucker’s remarks
would serve ‘‘that advisory, admonitory
function which is appropriate’’ at a
graduation ceremony, Huntley quoted Dean
Tucker who exhorted the graduates ‘‘to
advance the right and destroy the wrong; to
promote justice and defeat iniquity; to defend
the oppressed and assail the oppressor; to
protect freedom and oppose tyranny; to
uphold the institutional liberties of your

Law graduates heard President Huntley detail the history and growth of the School of Law.

people and to guard them against all
usurpation.’”’

Five students graduated summa cum
laude. They were William Jeffery Edwards,
Rebecca Stuart DuBose Graves, Steven
Marshall Johnson, Thomas McNally
Millhiser, and Tyler M. Moore. Those five
were also elected to the Order of the Coif
along with six others: Michael Edward
Bongiorno, Ann Brakke Campfield, Walter
DeKalb Kelley Jr., James Hamilton Neale,
Nancy June Wilson Spritzer, and Roscoe
Bolar Stephenson III.

 

 

WELL DONE, BILL PUSEY

Teacher, Scholar, Students’ Friend, Former Dean and Acting President Retires (In Name Only)

Dr. William Webb Pusey III retired at the
end of this academic year, thus concluding a
42-year Washington and Lee career that was
as diverse as it was illustrious.

Since coming to the University in 1939,
Pusey served as professor and head of the
German department, as the first S. Blount
Mason, Jr., Professor of German, as Dean of
the College, and as Acting President for five
months.

Pusey has been designated Dean and S.
Blount Mason, Jr., Professor of German,
Emeritus, by the Board of Trustees.

During his 42 years as a member of
W&L’s faculty, Pusey witnessed a subtle
evolution in his relationship with the students
he taught.

‘“When I first arrived,’’ he said, “‘the
students were like my younger brothers.
Then there was a generation of sons. Now
they’re more like grandsons.’’

Whether as younger brothers or sons or
grandsons, one part of the equation has
never changed: Pusey cherishes the
relationship now as much as he did 42 years
ago.
‘‘T like students,’’ he said. ‘‘I like their
pleasantness, civility, and openness. They
really are a talented group.

‘*I’m quite formal in my realtions with
students. I don’t have them sitting around my
office all day. My style is one of formal
friendliness.”’

Clearly, that style has been effective.
Three generations of W&L students—the
younger brothers, the sons, and the
grandsons—can attest to that.

Though any summary of Pusey’s W&L
years would tend to dwell on the many
important changes that occurred during his
deanship, Pusey would much prefer that he
be remembered as a good teacher and a good
scholar.

Indeed, he has been both.

He is, for instance, proud that he
introduced Russian language and literature
courses into the undergraduate curriculum.
He is proud that, until 1960, he taught every
course offered by the German department.
And he is proud, too, that he has taught
beginning German every year since stepping
down as dean in 1971.

Perhaps his teaching philosophy and his
strong feelings toward Washington and Lee

6

Dr. William W. Pusey III acknowledges a standing ovation in his honor at commencement exercises.

are best exemplified by the emphasis he has
placed on those introductory classes.

‘‘One of my favorite pleasures,’’ he said,
‘is to teach the introductory courses. That is
one of the reasons I find Washington and
Lee’s emphasis on undergraduate education
so congenial—the opportunity to introduce

 

young men to the world of ideas on a broad
base.’”’

As dean, Pusey kept that emphasis in
mind. In his 11 years as dean, Pusey directed
a series of changes that had profound impact
on the University.

With characteristic modesty, Pusey

 

declines to take much credit for those
changes. ‘‘Most things at Washington and
Lee,’’ he said, “‘are cooperative efforts.’’

That is true enough. Yet, the record of
accomplishments during his deanship is
indeed impressive. Faculty salaries were
doubled, enabling the University to attract
and keep a strong faculty. The Robert E. Lee
Research Program was established and has
allowed hundreds of W&L students to
undertake advanced research of the kind
usually engaged in by graduate students. The
undergraduate curriculum was reorganized
with an innovative academic calendar, and
pass-fail grades on a restricted basis were
introduced. The faculty adviser system was
revamped. And the list goes on.

The diversity of Pusey’s career is
illustrated by one of the more popular tales
associated with his deanship. The incident
occurred in 1967, during the five months
when Pusey was Acting President between
the resignation of Dr. Fred C. Cole and the
appointment of Robert E. R. Huntley as the
University’s 20th president.

At some point in that period, so the story
goes, a student appeared in Pusey’s office
and posed a question of some urgency (to the
student). Pusey was forced to interrupt the
student and to inquire: ‘‘Are you asking me
in my capacity as Dean of the College? Or as
Chairman of the Committee on Courses and
Degrees? Or as Acting President of the
University? It was a fitting response from a
man who has worn so many different hats at
W&L.

A noted scholar as well as a teacher and
administrator, Pusey has written extensively
on topics of language and literature. He is
the author of Louis-Sebastien Mercier in
Germany, which was his doctoral thesis, and
co-author of Readings in Military German.
This latter book enjoyed a considerable
textbook sale. But, as Pusey recalled with his
typically wonderful sense of humor, the book
‘stopped selling, precipitously, on about
May 8, 1945.’’ Pusey contributed some 225
reviews and notices to the Sunday Roanoke
Times of books on Russian and German
subjects and, under the pseudonym of
Marshall Street (his Lexington address), of
volumes on baseball.

Pusey’s current research and scholarly
pursuits are in local history, an interest he

 

attributes to his friendship with the late
Ollinger Crenshaw, history professor and
W&L historian for many years. In 1976,
Pusey wrote The Interrupted Dream: The
Education Program at Washington
College/Washington and Lee University,
1850-80. Most recently, he has finished a
study of the Ann Smith Academy, an all-
female school in Lexington during the 1800s.

Then there are Pusey’s various
extracurricular pursuits. He is, for instance, a
baseball aficionado and in addition to
following the successes and/or failures of the
Philadelphia Phillies, he was once a member
of the board of directors of Lynchburg’s
minor league baseball team.

He has also been a member of the
Lexington and Rockbridge County school
boards, a director of the local Boys’ Club,
and a member of the League of Women
Voters.

One of his favorite topics involves his
membership in the Rockbridge Foxstick
Hiking Club, an organization he helped
found and in which he is annually elected
Trailmaster in Perpetuity.

President Huntley presents roses to Pusey’s wife, Mary Hope, at a luncheon honoring the Puseys.

 

 

In retirement, Pusey hopes to return to
some summer gardening and winter traveling
with his wife, Mary Hope.

His retirement, though, will actually be
in name only, since he will be working part-
time in the University Library’s Special
Collections Department where he has done
much of his research on topics of local
history. He plans to continue that research.

‘‘T will avoid mortmain—in other words,
giving advice with the hand of the figurative
dead,’’ said Pusey.

At the annual Senior Banquet this spring,
W&L’s student body Executive Committee
announced a new award that will be given
annually to a member of the faculty or
administration who has given outstanding
service to the University. Pusey was the first
recipient of the award, which will henceforth
be known as the William Webb Pusey III
Award—a fitting tribute to a man who has
occasionally referred to Washington and Lee
as ‘‘Utopia U.”’

‘“When I say Washington and Lee is
Utopia University,’’ said Pusey, ‘‘I’m being
somewhat facetious—but not very much.’’

7

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

     

Alumni fathers of law graduates sit in front of their daughters and sons (left to right): Susan L. Pilcher, stepdaughter of John Bell Towill, ’29, not pictured; Halcott G.
Heyward III, 50, Carolyn Saffold-Heyward; G. Murray Smith, ’41, Clara S. Smith; Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr., ’43, ’47L, Roscoe B. Stephenson III; Harry Wellford,
46, Buckner P. Wellford; Nate L. Adams, ’48, Nate L. Adams III; Robert J. Ingram, 51, Robert J. Ingram Jr.; J. Randolph Larrick, ’49L, James R. Larrick Jr.

Sons of alumni who received academic degrees standing behind their fathers: James T. Coyle, 53, James T. Coyle a: Harold M. Bates, ’°61L, Carl M. Bates: Harry
George Jr., 36, Randolph B. George; J. Brookins Taylor, ’50, Peter B. Taylor; Ted M. Kerr Sr., ’57, Ted M. Kerr Jr.; John J. Fox Jr., °57, John J. Fox III; Irvine T.
Baker, ’55, Don S. Baker; Elias Richards III, ’54L, Alexis V. Richards; Spencer Frantz, 54, Robert R. Frantz.

Be

More sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their fathers: John P. Scully Jr., 43, Mark W. Scully; Alvin Harris, ’41, Matthew J. Harris; Charles
F. Tucker, ’51, ’53L, Charles F. Tucker Jr.; Raymond D. Coates Sr., ’50, ’53L, Thomas K. Coates; James W. H. Stewart Sr., ’“52L, James W. H. Stewart Jr.;
A. Fletcher Sisk Jr., °50, Geoffrey P. Sisk; William P. Fishback Jr., 56, William P. Fishback; Thomas D. Davis Jr., ’53, Cyril D. Davis; William H. Abeloff, ’57,
’60L, James F. Abeloff; Tommy L. Larimore, ’59, T. Lee Larimore; William A. Towler III, ’58, William A. Towler; William E. Latture, ’49, Rupert N. Latture, ’15
(grandfather), Richard G. Latture.

8

REUNION WEEKEND

Gallivan Elected President as 900 Alumni and Guests Crowd Campus for Varied Festivities

More than 900 alumni, their friends and
guests returned to Washington and Lee May
7-10 for the University’s annual Spring Class
Reunion Weekend, which included Law Day
activities and meetings of the W&L Alumni
Association and Law School Association.

Reunions were held for the classes of
1931, 1936, 1941, 1946, 1951, 1956, 1961,
1966, 1971, and 1976, as well as for the
‘Five Star Generals,’’ members of classes
prior to 1931.

The weekend festivities began on
Thursday, May 7, with a talk by Gene
Corrigan, former coach and athletic director
at W&L who left in 1971 to become athletic
director at the University of Virginia and is
now director of athletics at Notre Dame. A
report on Corrigan’s remarks, as well as
some reflections on college athletics
generally, appears elsewhere in this issue.

On Friday, a memorial service for alumni
who lost their lives during the Korean and
Vietnam conflicts was held in Lee Chapel.
Several family members of the servicemen
attended the service and witnessed the
unveiling of a bronze plaque that lists the 32
names—14 who died in Korea and 18 in
Vietnam. The plaque was mounted on the
Memorial Gate next to plaques honoring
alumni killed in World Wars I and II.

Also on Friday the psychology
department’s laboratories, which are in the
basement of the recently-renovated Tucker
Hall, were dedicated in honor of the late Dr.
William M. Hinton, ’29. Dr. Hinton, who
died in 1978, was a member of the
psychology faculty for 47 years. The
dedication ceremony included brief talks by
some of Dr. Hinton’s friends and colleagues,
including Ray Bice, professor of psychology
and secretary of the board of visitors at the
University of Virginia; B. von Haller
Gilmer, retired chairman of the psychology
department at Carnegie-Mellon University;
William W. Pusey, professor of German at
W&L and former dean of the College, and
Fred Rowe, ’44, professor of psychology at
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College and one
of Dr. Hinton’s students.

Other events on Friday included two
discussions on current events at W&L: one
on art and the arts at the University, led by
James W. Whitehead, secretary of the Board
of Trustees and curator of the University’s

historic art collection, and the other on
admissions, led by William M. Hartog,
director of admissions.

A large crowd of alumni, graduating
seniors, and third-year law students attended
the traditional Reunion Ball in Evans Hall on
Friday night, which included the music of
the Lester Lanin Orchestra. Social activities
and class banquets were held throughout the
weekend.

The annual John Randolph Tucker
Lecture was delivered on Saturday by Frank
I. Michelman, professor of law at Harvard
University. Michelman’s address was

Jee.

entitled ‘‘Property as a Constitutional
Right.”’

The W&L varsity soccer team met the
alumni team for a match on Wilson Field
later that afternoon. The varsity team
prevailed, 3 to 0.

President Huntley delivered a report to
alumni on the state of the University at the
annual Alumni Association meeting in Lee
Chapel on Saturday. James F. Gallivan, ’51,
of Nashville, Tenn., vice president of the
Commerce Union Bank, was elected
president of the Alumni Board of Directors.
A member of the Alumni Board since 1978,
Gallivan succeeds Richard A. Denny Jr.,

   

New Alumni AocidHon Peosilent Janes F. Callivan

52, of Atlanta, an attorney with the firm of
King & Spalding.

Elected vice president was John H.
McCormack Jr., ’50, of Jacksonville, Fla.
McCormack is chairman of the board of the
Atlantic National Bank.

W. D. Bain, ’49L, of Spartanburg, S.C..,
president of the Moreland-McKesson
Chemical Company, was elected treasurer.
W. C. Washburn, ’40, and L. C. (Buddy)
Atkins, ’68, were re-elected secretary and
assistant secretary, respectively.

Newly elected Alumni Association
directors are Charles D. Hurt Jr., ’59, an

  

51, (left) and outgoing President Richard A. Denny

attorney with Hurt, Richardson, Garner,
Todd & Cadenhead in Atlanta; Sidmon J.
Kaplan, ’56, president of Landseair, Inc., a
travel agency in Cleveland; J. William
McClintock III, ’53, president of McClintock
Farms, Inc., in Tunica, Miss., and S.
Maynard Turk, ’52L, general counsel for
Hercules, Inc., in Wilmington, Del. The four
new directors replace retiring Board members
William B. Ogilvie, ’64, of Houston, Paul
E. Sanders, ’43, of White Plains, N.Y., and
Denny.

The 1980-81 Alumni Fund trophies were
also presented during the meeting,
recognizing extraordinary success by Class

9

REUNION WEEKEND ’81

Agents.

Thomas E. Bruce, ’40A, Class Agent,
received the Washington Trophy, given to
the academic class graduated in the last 50
years that raises the most money. It was the
sixth consecutive year the class has won the
trophy, this year with a total of $66,658.

The Bierer Trophy for the highest
participation by an academic class graduated
in the last 10 years went to Robert E. Minor,
°71A, Class Agent, with a participation level
of 28.9 percent. It was the fourth time the
Class of ’71A had won this trophy, having
previously won it in 1976, 1977, and 1978.

Stuart Sanders, ’31A, Class Agent, won
the Richmond Trophy, which is given for the
highest participation by an academic class
graduated in the last 50 years. Sanders
steered his class to a 51.5 percent
participation level.

The Malone Trophy, given for the largest
amount given by a law class graduated in the
last 50 years, went to Manuel Weinberg,
°31L, Class Agent, in recognition of a total
of $12,400.

Sanders and Weinberg also won the John
Newton Thomas Trophy for the reunion
class, academic and law classes combined,
whose gifts to the Alumni Fund show the
greatest increase in amount over its total the
previous year. The two classes had a
combined increase of $26,859.

The Law School Association also held its
annual meeting during the weekend. Elected
president of the Association’s council for the
coming year was William F. Ford, ’61L, an
attorney with the Atlanta firm of Ford,
Harrison, Sullivan, Lowry & Sykes. Vice
President this year, Ford succeeds Ethan
Allen, ’31L, of New York. Harry A. Berry
Jr., °49, ’S1L, of the Charlotte, N.C., firm
of Berry, Hogewood, Edwards & Freeman,
was elected vice president, and Darlene
Moore of the law school staff was re-elected
secretary.

Three new council members were elected
for four-year terms. They are Donald J.
Currie, ’58L, of New York, who is with the
firm of Kay, Scholer, Fierman, Hays &
Handler; Charles E. Hubbard, ’66L, of
Roxboro, N.C., with Ramsey, Hubbard &
Galloway, and Edward F. Schiff, ’69L, of
Washington, D.C., with Akin, Gump,
Strauss, Hauer & Feld.

10

 

 

 

 

Charles D. Hurt, 59

S. Maynard Turk, ‘521

 

Sidmond J. Kaplan, ’56 : J. William McClintock, ’53

 

The state of W&L is summarized by President Huntley at the Alumni Association’ s annual meeting.

 

 

Alumni Fund trophy winners: Joe Tompkins, ’71, accepting the Bierer Trophy for ’71A Class Agent Rob
Minor; Bill Washburn, ’40, accepting the Washington Trophy for ’40A Class Agent Tom Bruce; Stuart
Sanders, ’31, winner of the Richmond Trophy, and Manuel Weinburg, ’31L, winner of the Malone Trophy.
Sanders and Weinburg jointly won the John Newton Thomas Trophy.

 

 

Black Alumni To Aid Student Recruitment, Fund Raising

 

A group of Washington and Lee’s black
alumni has organized to help the University
in the areas of student recruitment and fund
raising.

William B. Hill Jr., ’74, ’77L, assistant
attorney general for the state of Georgia, is
the executive chairman of the black alumni
group.

Hill and John L. White, "74, director of
minority affairs at the University, met with
the W&L Alumni Board in May to discuss
appropriate measures by which the black
alumni group could work within W&L’s
Alumni Association.

According to Hill, the group’s purpose
is three-fold.

**First, we want to assist the University
in its recruitment of minority students,”’
said Hill. ‘“We believe that we can be effec-
tive both in identifying and recruiting
qualified minority students for Washington
and Lee. In some instances, we may be
more effective than the University’s own
recruitment program.

**Second, we believe this group has the
potential ability to solicit funds on behalf of

the University, especially from certain
sources—foundations and corporations—
that are interested specifically in making
contributions to benefit minority students.
Those foundations and corporations, we
think, might be more receptive if they were
approached by black alumni of the Univer-
sity.

‘“Our third purpose is a self-serving one
in that this organization of black alumni
will provide us with a medium by which we
can keep in touch.’’

Hill and several other black alumni
began initial efforts to formulate such an
organization in the spring of 1980 because,
he explained, ‘‘we all felt that we owe
something to Washington and Lee. It’s
meant a lot to me personally, and I feel this
Organization provides a nice vehicle to
use.”’

Matthew Townes, ’74, is chairman of
the recruitment committee; John X. Miller
Jr., ’77, is chairman of the finance commit-
tee; and, Eugene C. Perry Jr., ’74, ’78L,
and Derrick A. Abney, ’78, are co-chair-
men of the faculty recruitment committee.

 

 

 

 

Lee C hapel Director Robert C. Peniston

unveils plaque.

| ey
RGRERT WARNER CROCKER | tex Ww
oe ;
oR ee €.
se :
poe ih Se eee as:
ee

B
oe
HERMON KORRES TRAMMECL TE Ta
AMES MILTON WETDON, J,
Peete eer ease bBo a as ‘
ee
A

 

The plaque honoring alumni lost in Asian
conflicts.

 

by Jeffery Hanna

CORRIGAN REVISITED

Now at the Top of the Big Time, He Thinks W&L’s Athletic Program is Ideal for the University

When Gene Corrigan was named athletic
director at the University of Notre Dame last
winter, one sportswriter examined Corrigan’s
credentials, including two stints at
Washington and Lee, and concluded that
here was a man too naive for a program of
Notre Dame’s magnitude.

‘*T remember the fellow writing,
‘Corrigan’s too naive for a place like Notre
Dame because he believes college athletics
on that level can be done right,’ ’’ Corrigan
recalled in an interview during his visit to
W&L in May when he was keynote speaker
for the spring alumni reunions.

‘One thing I quickly discovered at Notre
Dame,”’’ Corrigan added, “‘is that they are
more naive than I am. They do it right.”’

And yet, Corrigan readily admits that the
sportswriter’s inference—i.e., that success in
‘‘big-time’’ college athletics is seldom
achieved without compromising principles,

at best, or out-and-out cheating, at worst—is ©

certainly an understandable point of view.

After all, the litany of recent college
athletic scandals is all too familiar to
someone who, like Corrigan, is intimately
familiar with an athletic program. Transcripts
have been forged to get athletes into colleges
and to keep them eligible. Credits have been
awarded to ‘‘student-athletes’’ who never set
foot in a classroom. Recruitment of top high
school athletes has, in some instances,
degenerated into under-the-table bidding
wars.

‘*The negatives of college athletics are
hanging out in the newspapers for everyone
to see,’’ said Corrigan, who went to Notre
Dame after 10 years as director of the
University of Virginia’s athletic programs.
‘‘Quite simply, there are some schools where
they want to win and don’t care how they do
it.

‘‘More than anything, that attitude
represents a cop-out by the top administrators
of the schools. In those instances, there is no
leadership being exerted over the athletic
program.”’

Although he confesses that it is
dangerous to adopt a ‘“‘holier than anybody”’
attitude about such matters, Corrigan insists
that the powers-that-be at Notre Dame would
never countenance a win at all costs
approach. He knows, too, that Notre Dame
haters (and there are a few) will scoff at his

12

contention that all those Irish victories have
been recorded without a bit of compromising
principles.

‘*But I honestly believe this: if we ever
blatantly cheated in our football program at
Notre Dame, I think the school might drop
football for a year or so on its own,”’
Corrigan said. ‘‘The people in charge would,
I believe, do something extraordinary
themselves without waiting to be sanctioned
by somebody else. And I think that Virginia
would do the same thing. So might some
others.

‘‘The problem, though, is that not many
people have that mentality these days. And
that’s precisely the kind of mentality we need
in college athletics right now.”’

That, of course, is a mentality with
which Corrigan is uniquely familiar. He
came to Washington and Lee the first time in
1955, just a year after the University’s
historic decision to drop athletic scholarships
and establish its present non-subsidized

Gene Corrigan and his wife, Lena, renewed friendships and talked of their new life at South Bend.

  
   

 
 

program.

‘‘Washington and Lee made a great
decision,’’ Corrigan said, referring to those
unsettling times in the early 1950s. *‘I think
that W&L is probably more comfortable with
that decision now than it has ever been.

‘If you doubt it was a great decision,
you need only look around at other schools,
at the trouble and at the frustration those
schools are suffering by trying to maintain
their programs at a level where they simply
do not belong any more.

‘*The kind of athletic program W&L has
now is the ideal program for this school
because it has made a commitment to have a
broad athletic program which serves as an
activity for the students. President Huntley
can tell you the purpose of the athletic
program here today just as he could 15 years
ago. It has not changed one bit.

‘*Each school has a different purpose and
must adjust its athletic program to fit that
purpose. Some never make the adjustment.

 

 

ae eT eee

 

 

Washington and Lee did.”’

In many cases, the schools that do not
make the adjustment wind up cutting corners
in order to keep up. Then, says Corrigan, all
of college athletics suffers.

‘Tt hurts everybody when it’s done
wrong. Nobody escapes. What happens in
New Mexico is felt in South Bend and in
Charlottesville and everywhere,’’ Corrigan
said. ‘‘While many, many schools are doing
it right, there are some that still do it so
wrong.

‘‘T don’t know what the answer is. I
honestly don’t. People say, ‘Well, the
NCAA ought to do this or that.’ But the
NCAA is us. We are the NCAA. The
question is: what are we going to do about
ourselves?’’

It all comes back, Corrigan maintains, to
leadership, to men at the top who refuse to
compromise.

‘‘T think college presidents need to say to
their coaches, ‘I want my program run with
integrity. I want you to win. But more than
that, I want you to play by the rules. If you
live by the rules and don’t make it as a
coach, we’ ll take care of you somehow,
some way. Just live by the rules,’ ’’ said
Corrigan.

‘‘And I think some people have got to
understand that there are those schools in
‘big-time’ athletics that are simply not 11-0
schools and never will be. Those schools
might have been able to win back in the
1930s, but it was a different world then.
W&L could beat Virginia and play
Tennessee and Georgia in football then. But
no more. It’s a different game.

‘‘At some places, they don’t want to
recognize that fact. They don’t want to be
satisfied with a 6-5 season or a 7-4 season.
But they have got to understand that they are
never going to have a Notre Dame season or
a Southern Cal season.”’

Still, there is that inescapable pressure to
win. Winning nowadays has an economic
side to it that has not been present until
recently. The colleges that win, in addition
to having their names in front of the public,
are now earning millions of dollars in
television and bowl game revenues.

‘‘Any time you keep score, you have
pressure to win,’’ Corrigan said. ‘‘But there
are different kinds of pressure.

 

Corrigan relaxes during the weekend.

‘‘T haven’t been at Notre Dame long
enough to feel the pressure there. I’m sure I
will. But I’m also certain the pressure is not
going to come from the top administrators of
the university. It will come from the alumni
and the subway alumni and friends of the
university and maybe the gamblers. One
thing I’ve been told and I believe is that at
Notre Dame you can raise all the hell you
want, but they’re going to run the program
the way they want to run the program.”’

As an example, Corrigan cited the Notre
Dame administration’s refusal to enlarge the
football stadium at South Bend. ‘‘The
administration has said that enlarging the
stadium would be misunderstood,’’ Corrigan
said. ‘“They have said that the extra seats
might be useful but that the university has
other priorities.”’

There are, Corrigan contends, other areas
in which Notre Dame’s athletic program is
unusual, if not unique, as compared with
other major college football and basketball

 

powers. The fact that athletes do not all live
in one place but are spread througout 23
dormitories; the absence of an athletic
training table; the fact that while there is an
academic adviser for athletes, that adviser
works for the dean’s office and not the
athletic department.

Yet even Corrigan acknowledges that
Notre Dame is able, ‘‘to do things right’’
because of a tradition that is second to none
in college athletics. Few colleges are able
consistently to draw the same breed of major
college student-athlete Notre Dame draws.

‘“There are very few places that can do
things the way we do them and still be a
power,’’ Corrigan admitted.

The question being asked in light of the
current rash of scandals is whether athletics
has not become the tail that wags the dog,
whether colleges have any business running
‘“‘big-time’’ sports programs whether they’ re
run right or wrong.

‘'T think the best argument for a strong
college athletic program is the impact a
program has on the college community,”’
Corrigan said. ‘‘One thing that an athletic
program can do well is unify the school,
create a sense of community that might not
otherwise be there.

‘But if you do it wrong, what a hollow
sense of community!’’

Though he now directs what is the most
visible college athletic program in America,
Corrigan still has fond memories of his W&L
days—first as soccer, lacrosse and basketball
coach in the mid-SOs and later as athletic
director for one year in the late 60s.

‘Just walking along this campus brings a
flood of memories. Mostly I remember the
people—like Capt. Dick Smith and like
Norm Lord,’’ Corrigan said. ‘‘I’1l never
forget the first time I had to teach a
gymnastics class here, and Norm Lord taught
me how to teach gymnastics. I couldn’t walk
for two weeks.

‘‘People have talked about remembering
the lacrosse game when we beat Virginia one
year. The game I remember most was not
beating Virginia but losing to Johns Hopkins
7-6 on Homewood Field in Baltimore. We
should have won that game. I had three
penalties called on me for arguing with
officials. How little I knew!”’

But how much he has learned.

13

A REUNION
SAMPLER

 

 

   

Alumni enjoy a little ‘‘cheek-to-cheek.”’

 

 

Z :

Lester Lanin provided the music for the riday evening Reunion Ball. sar a 1956 returnees catch up on classmates.

 

14

 

 

 

Harvard Professor Frank I. Michelman delivered the 1981 Tucker Lecture, William F. Ford, |

 

OIL, (left), new Law School Association president, talks

‘Property as a Constitutional Right.’’ with Ed Meyers, ’61, ’63L, of the Law School Council.

 

Members of the Class of 1936 celebrate their 45th reunion: (left to right) gE Vaughan Beale, James B. Merrick,
W. Harrison, J. Wallace Davies, William B. Hoofstitler, Charles A. Sweet, Stuart T. Miller, Edward L. Seitz,

  

30, I. Glenn Shively, W. Magruder Drake, George
Edward A. Turville, Harry George Jr., Forrest E.

Huffman, Rene L. Tallichet, William S. Johnson, Kenneth G. MacDonald, Richard T. Scully, Thomas H. Alphin, Donald R. Moore, ’37, and Kenneth P. Lane.

Mrs. Ruth Hill (center) wife of Borroughs R. Hill, ’31, (right), talks with W&L Bookstore Manager
Munger about her bestselling book, Hanta Yo.

      

He

Betty

 

Le
ee :
ts

te

 

Trustee Emeritus Joseph T. Lykes, ’41, with
Richard Day, ’41, at Reunion Ball.

15

44
a

REUNION SAMPLER

 

 

=
SSS Seek
SS SESE SS
Ce = : -
_ al

    

  

Five Star Generals (classes prior to 1931) at their banquet. Back row, left to right: R. Winter Royston, ’23,
Rupert Latture, ’15, Harry Pfeffer, ’26, William A. Gibbons Jr., 21, Allein Beall Jr., ’18, William R.
Marchman, ’26, Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20, ’23L, Samuel L. Sanderson, ’22. Front row: Mrs. Pfeffer,
Mrs. Gibbons, Mrs. Beall.

   

Admissions Director Hartog reviewed the W&L
recruitment efforts. Members of the Class of 1941 celebrate their 40 years as W&L alumni.

16

 

srs

 

GAZETTE

Development Program Status; Audio-Visual Center Plans; CHAOS Scholarship

 

 

Pew grant helps fund
audio-visual center

A grant of $120,000 from the Pew
Memorial Trust of Philadelphia, Pa., has
been made to Washington and Lee to help
fund an audio-visual center for the
University’s new undergraduate library.

Once completed, the library’s audio-
visual center will include a modern, multi-
purpose system that will be used throughout
the campus.

The University’s $9 million library,
formally dedicated last May, contains a
1 ,500-square-foot area that was
architecturally designed to become an audio-
visual center.

Preliminary plans call for a small video
system to be located in the center, providing
video materials to four seminar rooms and
two conference rooms located in the library
and equipped with video monitors.

In announcing the Pew Memorial Trust
grant, Washington and Lee president Robert
E. R. Huntley noted that ‘‘the systematic
development of our audio-visual capabilities
has been a growing need in recent years.
This assistance from the Pew Memorial Trust
will have a far-reaching and gratifying effect
on many academic programs where teaching
effectiveness can be enhanced by modern
technology and resources.’’

The Pew Memorial Trust is the second
largest foundation in the United States in size
of assets. It was set up by Joseph N. Pew Jr.,
J. Howard Pew, Mary Ethel Pew, and Mabel
Pew Myrin in memory of their father and
mother.

 

 

Albanese and Vlahoplus
win first Latture Award

Craig T. Albanese and John C.
Vlahoplus, both sophomores at Washington
and Lee University, have received the first
Rupert N. Latture Award, presented by
W&L’s chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Since Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
organization recognizing outstanding
leadership on college campuses, is limited to
juniors and seniors, the Latture Award was

$6 million is needed
to meet Phase II goal

With six months remaining in the second
phase of its $62 million development pro-
gram, Washington and Lee is now slightly
less than $6 million shy of its goal.

As of June 1, the University had received
commitments totaling $20,321,000 toward
the $26-million goal for Phase II. The sec-
ond phase is to be completed by December
31, 1981.

One factor that is helping the University
in its progress toward successfully com-
pleting the campaign is an anonymous chal-
lenge offer that will match, dollar-for-dol-
lar, any new captial gift (i.e., a gift for
endowment or construction) of $10,000 or
more. The challenge offer is predicated on
the assumption that any commitment will
be paid within five years.

The University successfully completed
the $36-million first phase of the compre-
hensive development program in 1976.

 

 

 

established to recognize outstanding
leadership and service among members of the
sophomore class.

Albanese is a chemistry and biology
major from Melville, N.Y. Vlahoplus is an

 

terrace of the Alumni House.

 

Craig T. Albanese, ’83, and John C. Vlahoplus, ’83, Latture Award Winners, with Mr. Latture on the

economics major from Columbia, S.C.

The Latture Award is named in honor of
the last surviving member of Omicron Delta
Kappa. Latture, a 1915 graduate of W&L,
was professor of political science at the
University from 1920 to 1962. He now
serves as assistant to the president.

 

 

1981 Gilliam Award
goes to Willis

Robert H. Willis Jr. of St. Petersburg,
Fla., president of the student body, received
the University’s highest student honor, the
Frank Johnson Gilliam Award, at the senior
banquet in April.

The Gilliam Award is presented annually
to the senior who has made the most valuable
and conspicious contribution to life at W&L.
The recipient is selected by non-graduating
student government representatives.

Willis received his B.A. degree in
English in June and begins studies at St.
Andrews University in Scotland in the fall
under a Rotary Scholarship.

As president of the student body Willis
presided over the student body Executive
Committee, which is responsible for
administration of the Honor System and

 

17

de GAZETTE

supervision of all campus activities. He was
the Executive Committee’s sophomore and

junior representative prior to his election as
president last spring.

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, the Student Affairs
Committee and the University Council. He
was Florida state chairman for the 1980
Mock Republican Convention at W&L and
was listed in Who’s Who Among Students in
American Universities and Colleges during
both his junior and senior years. He is also
student director of Omicron Delta Kappa’s
regional organization.

The Gilliam Award was established in
1963 in honor of Washington and Lee’s dean
of students and admissions director for
almost 40 years.

 

 

CHAOS establishes
scholarship fund

CHAOS, a student organization that was
present on the Washington and Lee campus
in the late 1960s and early 1970s, has
established a scholarship at the University.

To be known as The CHAOS Society of
Washington and Lee University Scholarship,
the gift represents the CHAOS Society’s
Stated commitment to the success of the
University and to its growth.

During its existence on campus, the only
tangible evidence of formal organization was
the CHAOS bumper sticker which
materialized on cars and walls around W&L
and Lexington.

 

 

Widows of faculty
and administrators

A recent tabulation of the wives of
deceased members of the W&L faculty and
administration showed that nearly all of
them have chosen to remain in the Lexington
area near their long-time friends and neigh-
bors. There are 20 such widows as follows:
Mrs. Lewis W. Adams, Mrs. Ollinger
Crenshaw, Mrs. Lucius J. Desha, Mrs.
Forrest Fletcher, Mrs. Fitzgerald Flournoy,
Mrs. Esmarch Gilreath, Mrs. Marion Jun-
kin, Mrs. Lee Kahn, Mrs. Harold Lauck,
Mrs. Charles P. Light, Mrs. Tom Lothery,
Mrs. Charles McDowell, Mrs. Lee Mc-
Laughlin, Mrs. M. O. Phillips, Mrs. Ed-
ward L. Pinney, Mrs. Henry Roberts, Mrs.
Henry Shelly, Mrs. Edward Turner, Mrs.
E. Parker Twombly, and Mrs. Harry K.
(Cy) Young.

Mrs. Flournoy has recently entered the
Sunnyside Home near Harrisonburg, Va.
Mrs. Fletcher is living in Bel Air, Md.,
with her daughter, Mrs. Michael Crocker.
Mrs. Young is living in Richmond.

 

 

 

According to one of its organizers, ‘‘the
only fiber binding this group together was
the unstated resolve that blind adherence to
traditional lifestyle must be replaced with a
willingness to explore life’s tangents.”’

Since their graduation from Washington
and Lee, CHAOS ‘‘agents’’ have maintained
a close bond. Every summer since 1974,
members of CHAOS have reunited for the
annual Smith Mountain Sailing and Skiing

Dean of Students Lewis G. John presents Gilliam Award to student body president Bob Willis. Willis is the

second student to ever win both the Gilliam Award and the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion.

18

Symposium at Virginia’s Smith Mountain
Lake. At the last symposium, the group
decided to make a permanent gift to the
University in the form of a scholarship.

In making its gift, CHAOS said: ‘‘We are
committed to the success of the University
and to its growth. As it has done throughout
its proud history, W&L continues to foster
individuality, literature reflection and the
ever-refreshing spirit of camaraderie. As
individuals and as members of CHAOS, we
are indebted to W&L not only for sound
intellectual training but for those experiences
and friendships which now enrich our lives.
We now ask our alma mater for formal
recognition of CHAOS and its contribution,
and encourage other CHAOS agents to show
their support by contributing to the CHAOS
Scholarship Fund (in care of the Financial
Aid Office).

Those CHAOS members making
contributions to the fund to date are: John
Luster, ’74; Jon Weigle, ’74; Irv Wolfson,
°75; Mike Cimino, ’74; Jack Shuey, ’73;
Bruce Gordin, ’74; Landon Lane, ’72; Herb
Rubenstein, ’74, and John Lane, ’74.

 

 

10 faculty members
receive promotions

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for 10 members of the W&L
faculty.

Two faculty members have been
promoted from associate professor to full
professor. They are Dr. Michael A. Pleva

 

Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard at work in his
psychology laboratory.

 

(chemistry) and Dr. I. Taylor Sanders II
(history).

Moving from assistant to associate
professor are Norris T. Aldridge (physical
education), Dr. Philip L. Cline (business
administration and economics), John S.
Emmer (physical education), Dr. Alfred G.
Fralin Jr. (romance languages), Mark H.
Grunewald Jr. (law), Thomas H. Jones
(physical education), Dr. J. Holt Merchant
Jr. (history), and Dr. Gordon P. Spice
(music).

The promotions were approved by the
W&L board of trustees at its spring meeting
in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and become effective
Sept. 1.

 

 

Jarrard’s paper wins
Horsley Award

The Virginia Academy of Science has
awarded Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard the J.
Shelton Horsley Award for the most
meritorious paper presented at the academy’s
annual meeting.

Jarrard, whose paper was entitled
‘‘Selective Hippocampal Lesions and
Behavior,”’ is only the second psychologist
to win the award since it was established by
the academy in 1927. Named for the late Dr.
J. Shelton Horsley, a nationally prominent
surgeon who was the academy’s fourth
president, the award is determined by a panel
of scientists from a state other than Virginia.

Since the early 1960s, Jarrard has been
conducting research into a small portion of

 

B. Vaughn.

Today Lexington, tomorrow Nashville: W&L’s country songwriter

the brain called the hippocampus. His award-
winning paper examined the relationship
between damage of that part of the brain and
behavior in laboratory animals.

It was the second time this year that
Jarrard’s research has been selected for an
award. Earlier, the Virginia Psychological
Association presented its award for
Outstanding Contribution to Psychology as a
Science to Jarrard.

 

 

Mahan Awards go
to four students

Four students at Washington and Lee
won the George A. Mahan Awards in
Creative Writing, given annually by W&L’s
English department.

The winners in the prose category were
Jackson R. Sharman III, a sophomore
politics and French major from Tuscaloosa,
Ala., John A. Wells, a junior journalism
major from Waynesboro, Va., and Ben W.
Keesee, a senior journalism major from
Memphis, Tenn. The judges stated that
‘whereas no single entry was fully
achieved,’’ they wished to recognize ‘‘the
ambition and promise’’ of each of the prose
writers.

Richard C. Swagler Jr., a freshman from
Vestavia Hills, Ala., won the award for
verse.

The Mahan Awards were established
under the will of George A. Mahan of
Hannibal, Mo., a Washington and Lee
alumnus who studied at the University during

   

Col. Thomas

 

Dr. Severn Duvall presented the Jean Amory Wornom Award for Distinguished

General Lee’s years as president and who
died in 1936. They carry stipends of $150
each for prose winners and a $200 prize for
the poetry winner.

 

 

Songwriting colonel
has his eye on Nashville

Behind his desk in Washington and Lee’s
ROTC building, Col. Thomas B. Vaughn
keeps his trusty tape recorder, loaded and at
the ready.

Whenever he needs a break from the
daily round of paperwork, Vaughn simply
switches on the recorder and taps his feet
to a familiar country-western song. A very
familiar country-western song. HIS country-
western song:

‘It’s a long way from Lockney

To the Hudson and the Plain

It’s a long way from Texas

To the fightin’ and the pain.

Boots and blue jeans in a closet
Long ago put aside

But he still dreamed of Lockney

And those thrilling midnight rides.’’*

*Copyright © 1978 by Thomas B. Vaughn and
Joe W. Rigby.

A 23-year Army veteran with a wall full
of decorations and awards, Vaughn has been
writing country-western songs on a more or
less regular basis for the past four years.

One of his songs, ‘‘A Long Way From
Lockney,”’ is about to be recorded by a
country-western band headquartered in, of all
places, Hawaii. Several of Vaughn’s other

 

Critical Writing to David H. Johnson, ’81, just prior to commencement exercises.

19

ll rl tl (LLU

 

de GAZETTE

compositions are being considered for an
album by the same group. And Vaughn
keeps promising himself that, one of these
days, he’ll pack up his lyrics and go pound
on a few doors along Music Row in
Nashville.

‘*At one time, I seriously considered
retiring from the Army and going into
songwriting full bore,’’ said Vaughn, who
has been in command of Washington and
Lee’s ROTC program since August of 1979
and leaves this summer to attend Army War
College in Carlisle, Pa. ‘‘I finally decided
that since I’ve given 23 years to the Army I
want to pursue this career to its logical
conclusion, whatever that may be.”’

So writing songs about fightin’, pain,
boots, blue jeans, and the rest will remain a
hobby—for now, at least.

The story behind Vaughn’s avocation is,
as you might expect, a bit unusual. It’s the
story of a career Army officer who can’t read
or write a note of music meeting up with a
Canadian country-western singer in Honolulu
and having a song about a Texan’s
experiences in Vietnam recorded. Simple,
right?

Actually, it’s not as complicated as it
sounds.

For starters, Vaughn was born and raised in
McMinnville, Tenn., just a few country
miles down the road from the Grand Ole
Opry. That helps explain his affection for the
country-western genre.

‘*T was saturated by country-western
music when I was growing up,’’ Vaughn
says. ‘‘For my first 10 years in the Army,
though, I was a closet country-western fan

Members of W&L’s winning International Moot Court Team at Lewis Hall. Front row, left to right: Samuel N.

because it really wasn’t very fashionable for
officers to listen to that kind of music back
then.’’

After two tours of duty in Vietnam and
assorted other assignments along the way,
Vaughn was stationed in Hawaii, where he
commanded an 800-man infantry battalion.
There, the plot thickened.

‘‘One night I was talking with a friend
named Joe Rigby who was born and raised in
Lockney, Tex., and had gone to fight in
Vietnam. After he’d related some of his
experiences, I told him, ‘Joe, there’s a
country song in your life.’ So I went home
that night and started writing it,’’ Vaughn
explained. ‘‘I wrote some of the lyrics and
Joe wrote some. The result was “A Long
Way From Lockney.’ ”’

The story doesn’t end there. It happened
that Vaughn had complained so long and so
loud about the quality of entertainment
offered at the Officer’s Club on the base that
he was put in charge of entertainment. He
booked Earl Hughes and Friends, a country-
western band.

‘‘One night, Earl Hughes and I were
talking and I mentioned the song I’d written
with my friend’s help,’’ said Vaughn. ‘‘Earl,
who is a real genius at arranging, put the
words to music and performed it a few
times.”’

One thing led to another and a few weeks
ago Vaughn received a demonstration tape in
the mail on which Earl Hughes and Friends
performed ‘‘A Long Way From Lockney.”’
With the tape came a request for Vaughn to
send a few more songs to be considered for
inclusion in an album.

 

Allen III, William D. Johnston, and Craig K. Morris. Back row: Alan Button, Steven J. Talevi, and

Guy Arcidiacono.

20

Not all Vaughn’s songs reflect his
military background. In fact, few do.

‘‘Most of the lyrics come from people
watching,’’ said Vaughn, who confessed to
being an unabashed fan of singer-songwriter
Tom T. Hall. ‘‘The tunes are in my head
when I write the words, but since I don’t
write music I have to explain that tune and
have somebody else, like Earl Hughes, write
the music. In country-western songs, the
music is almost incidental. You can find 100
tunes that are similar. The lyrics are what
count.”’

Vaughn says he has hesitated sending his
compositions off to Nashville ‘‘probably
because I don’t want to be objective about
the songs. It’s difficult being objective. You
think every song you write ought to be
recorded by Johnny Cash or Willie Nelson
and ought to win a Grammy. But it doesn’t
work that way.’’

Not even for Army colonels.

—Jeffery Hanna

 

 

Moot team has best brief
in national competition

A brief prepared by the Washington and
Lee International Moot Court Team was
judged the best in the national division of the
international moot court competition.

The five-member team representing
W&L’s School of Law had advanced to the
national finals of the international moot court
competition by winning the eastern regional
round in February.

 

Dr. Milton Colvin, NATO research fellow and
‘‘Findlandisation’’ scholar.

 

Competing against teams representing 12
other regional winners from throughout the
United States, the W&L brief won top
honors and is currently being considered for
further honors.

The W&L team was composed of Samuel
N. Allen If of Middletown, Conn.; Guy
Arcidiacono of Douglaston, N.Y.; William
D. Johnston of Wilmington, Del.; Craig K.
Morris of Camp Hill, Pa.; and Steven J.
Talevi of Oneonta, N.Y.

Alan Button, a third-year law student
from Peekskill, N.Y., is student-coach for
the W&L team; Samuel W. Calhoun,
assistant professor of law, is the faculty
advisor.

 

 

Colvin is named
NATO research fellow

Dr. Milton Colvin, professor of politics,
has received a research fellowship from the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
Colvin is one of only five Americans
receiving NATO grants. There were 25
fellowships awarded world-wide.
Announcement of the fellowship was made
by Dr. Joseph M.A.H. Luns, secretary-
general of NATO.

The aim of the NATO Research
Fellowships is to promote research leading to
publication of studies which examine aspects
of common interests, traditions, and outlook
of the 15 nations that belong to the NATO
alliance.

Each NATO Fellow receives a grant to

 

Dr. George W. Ray III, ‘‘Shakespeare in
Performance’’ participant.

support his study, which must be undertaken
in a NATO country other than the Fellow’s
home country.

Colvin will conduct his research in Ger-
many. His topic is ‘“The Pursuit if Detente in
East-West Relations: The Impact of ‘Finlandi-
sation’ on the Young in Germany.”’

A graduate of Yale University with a
Ph.D. from the University of Heidelberg
(Germany), Colvin has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1961. He
has contributed articles or monographs to the
Yale Review, the American Journal of
Sociology, Military Review, and Smithsonian
Studies.

 

 

Ray to participate
in Shakespeare institute

George W. Ray III, professor of English,
will participate in a National Endowment for
the Humanities Institute at the Folger Shake-
speare Library in Washington, D.C., in July.

The month-long institute, ‘‘Shakespeare
in Performance,”’ is sponsored by the Folger
Institute of Renaissance and Eighteenth-
Century Studies with the aid of a grant from
the NEH.

Ray will be studying performance-
oriented techniques of presenting
Shakespearean drama. He and other
participants in the institute will take part in
readings, discussions and dramatic
enactments of scenes from Shakespeare’s
plays, approaching each text as a script
written primarily for actors.

LL

Members of the family of Peter Botts Meem, ’78, who died in an auto accident last year, at a recent

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1964, Ray teaches several
classes in Shakespeare at the University. He
is the author of several articles on
Renaissance drama and has edited a two-
volume critical edition of the two full-length
plays by 17th-century dramatist George
Chapman.

Ray graduated from Wesleyan University
and received his M.A. degree from Colgate
University and his Ph.D. at the University of
Rochester.

 

 

Vlahoplus is awarded
Truman Scholarship

Sophomore John C. Vlahoplus, has been
awarded a prestigious Harry S Truman
Scholarship. Vlahoplus, an economics major
from Columbia, S.C., was one of 79
undergraduates from throughout the United
States to receive Truman Scholarships this
year and the second W&L student to win a
Truman Scholarship since the program began
in 1977.

Vlahoplus, who carries a perfect 4.0
grade point average at Washington and Lee,
was also named the winner of the Phi Beta
Kappa Sophomore Award. He is a member
of the Phi Eta Sigma freshman honorary
society, the Student Recruitment Committee,
the fencing team, and Pi Kappa Phi social
fraternity.

Truman scholarships are awarded to
college undergraduates who are preparing for
a career in ““public service,’’ which is

  
  

 

memorial service for Meem at W&L. Left to right: Stephen Meem, Gilbert S. Meem Jr.,’72, Mrs. Gilbert S.
Meem Sr., Langhorne Meem II, Mrs. Pat R. Haynes, Gilbert S. Meem Sr., ’38, and Langhorne Meem.

21

Le GAZETTE

loosely defined as participation in
government. The scholarship program,
emphasizing potential leadership ability in
recipients, is federally funded as a memorial
to President Harry S Truman.

Each scholarship covers tuition, books,
and room and board, to a maximum of
$5,000 per year up to four years of study. It
may be used during the recipient’s junior and
senior years of college and two years of
graduate school. Vlahoplus plans to enter
law school after his graduation from
Washington and Lee.

 

 

Ms. Combs is winner
of Burks Competition

Deborah Hutchins Combs, a first-year
law student, won the School of Law’s 1981
Burks Moot Court Competition which was
completed recently. A native of Princeton,
W.Va., Ms. Combs is a 1980 graduate of
Concord (W.Va.) College where she
received the B.A. degree in political science
and sociology.

The Burks Moot Court Competition is the
culmination of a semester-long competition
involving appellate argument. All 117
members of the first-year law class
participate in the competition.

Runners-up in the competition were
Richard R. Thomas of American Fork, Utah,
Howard T. Wall III of Nashville, Tenn.; and
Jacqueline F. Ward of Roanoke.

In addition, awards were presented for
the best brief, which counted as 40 percent

 

Deborah H. Combs, ’83L, Burks Moot Court Competition winner.

22

of the first round competition. Rebecca M.
Sasscer from Upper Marlboro, Md., won the
best-brief award.

 

 

Your Virginia license plate
can boost the University

Yes, the Virginia Division of Motor
Vehicles has made available a specially
designed W&L license plate for vehicles
titled in Virginia. The plates offered run
from W&L 1 through W&L 999 and 1
W&L through 999 W&L. The special plate
fee is $10.00 annually in addition to the
regular annual plate fee or a prorated fee
based on the number of months remaining in
the current registration period not including
the current month. Application forms for the
W&L plates may be obtained from any
Division of Motor Vehicles branch office or
license agent or by writing to James E. Parr,
General Manager, Division of Motor
Vehicles, P.O. Box 27412, Richmond,
Virginia 23269.

 

 

Honors societies induct
students, alumni, faculty

Several students, alumni, and faculty
members of Washington and Lee University
were inducted into two honor societies, Beta
Gamma Sigma and Omicron Delta Epsilon,
during ceremonies on the campus in May.

Initiates into Beta Gamma Sigma, which

   
   

Wel 8
B81 WeL

See notice above.

recognizes outstanding achievement in the
study of business administration, were: W.
David Jones, assistant professor of
administration; Marshall A. Clark, a senior
from Memphis, Tenn.; Stanley K. Doobin, a
senior from Rock Hill, N.Y.; Brian J.
Noonan, a junior from Charlotte, N.C.; and
J. Franklin Williams, a junior from Danville,
Va.

Initiates for Omicron Delta Epsilon,
which recognizes outstanding achievement in
economics, were: Carl P. Kaiser, assistant
professor of economics; and seniors
Lawrence G. Davis, of Wilmington, Del.,
Charles T. Hammes of Boones Mill, Va.,
Ted M. Kerr Jr. of Midland, Texas, and
Jerrell G. Nickerson of Hopewell, Va.

In addition, two alumni were honorary
inductees into Omicron Delta Epsilon. H.
Reed Johnston, a 1928 graduate who is a
founding partner of Johnston & Lunger, a
New York brokerage firm, and his son,
William R. Johnston, a 1961 graduate who is
chairman of Agora Securities Co.

 

 

Ah! Reunion is a thing
of unexpected results

O. W. (Tom) Riegel, profesor of
journalism and communications emeritus,
wrote the following letter to W. C. (Bill)
Washburn, alumni secretary, a few days
after spring class reunions May 7-9:

Dear Bill:

We haven’t accepted your kind invitation

   

Virginia

  

Virginia

to attend alumni reunions for a good many
years for the following reasons, among
others:

1. I am not an alumnus of Washington
and Lee University.

2. Alumni return to see other alumni and
the University, not retired professors.

3. No one would remember me, which
would be humiliating.

4. I wouldn’t remember former students,
which would be embarrassing.

5. Alumni might seize the opportunity to
tell me what a rotten professor I was, which
would be depressing.

6. We would have so few interests that
conversation would die in 18 seconds.

7. Standing around talking would be
distressing to the feet.

8. I could make a small financial
contribution to the University by not
drinking its booze.

In spite of our misgivings, Jane and I
attended the reunion reception last Friday,
and with unexpected results.

In the short trajectory between the nearest
bar and chairs in front of the library, we
were accosted by 23 alumni and their
spouses, all of whom recognized me and
spoke quite civilly.

Just as astonishing is the fact that I
remembered all of them, usually with total
recall.

The conversations were interesting
enough to make me forget my feet and my
small financial contribution to the
University.

One incident: An alumnus, not one of my
former students, asked me if I was related to

a Professor Riegel who was on the faculty in
the 1930’s.
‘“Yes,’’ I said, ‘‘he was my father.’’
Thanks for the invitation.
Faithfully,
O. W. RIEGEL

 

 

Editors are named
for student publications

Bill Whalen of Arlington, Va., and John
Huskin of Hagerstown, Md., have been
elected editors-in-chief for 1981-82 of the
Student newspaper, Ring-tum Phi, and year-
book, The Calyx, respectively, at Washington
and Lee University.

Andrew Trotter of Richmond, Va., was
elected editor of the W&L student literary
magazine, Ariel.

Also elected at a recent meeting of the
student body’s publications board were Scott
Fitzgerald of Clifton, N.J., as business
manager of the yearbook, and Trent
Dickerson of Madison Heights, Va., as
business manager of the newspaper.

 

 

Ring-tum Phi Awards
presented at senior banquet

Two members of the faculty, two
administrators and two students received the
W&L student newspaper’s annual awards for
exceptional service to the University.

The annual Ring-tum Phi awards were

 

ceremonies. Left to right: H. Reed Johnston, ’28, Mrs. H. Reed Johnston, Stephen P. Burrington, ’82,
(Johnston’s grandson), Mrs. William R. Johnston, William R. Johnston, ’61, (Johnston’s son).

presented on April 29 during the Alumni
Association’s banquet honoring graduating
seniors and third-year law students.

The awards went to:

—Robert L. Brooke, a senior European
history major from Richmond, for
outstanding campus leadership;

—Gary H. Dobbs, associate professor of
biology, for outstanding classroom teaching
and ‘‘personification of a gentleman’’;

—W. Jeffery Edwards, a third-year law
student from King George, Va., for his work
on the student body executive committee;

—H. Robert Huntley, associate dean of
students and dean of freshmen, for his
outstanding work with each year’s freshman
class;

—Charles F. Murray, university proctor,
for ‘‘performing unpleasant duties in a
pleasant manner’’;

—wWilliam W. Pusey III, S. Blount
Mason Professor of German, for his 42 years
of dedicated service to Washington and Lee.

 

 

Works by Mcllvain
in major exhibitions

Works by Isabel Mcllvain, sculptor-in-
residence at the University, are currently
included in two major exhibitions and will
soon be part of a third exhibition which will
travel in Europe.

One of Mcllvain’s recent sculptures,
‘‘Standing Female Figure,”’ is part of the
inaugural exhibition for the San Antonio
Museum of Art in San Antonio, Tex.

     

RE

Charles F. (Murph) Murray, the University Proctor,
accepts one of five awards given by the Ring-tum Phi
at the annual senior banquet.

23

VW
CL GAZETTE

The exhibition, which opened March 1,
is entitled ‘‘Real, Really Real, Super Real:
Directions in Contemporary American
Realism’’ and includes works by such artists
as Andrew Wyeth, George Segal and Richard
Estes. The exhibition began a three-city tour
in May. It will be shown at the Indianapolis
(Ind.) Museum of Art from May 19 through
June 28, at the Tucson (Ariz.) Museum of
Art from July 19 through August 26, and at
the Carnegie Institute Museum of Art in
Pittsburgh from October 24 through January
3, 1982.

Another of Mcllvain’s sculptures is in a
traveling exhibition organized by New
York’s Pratt Institute. Shown at the Pratt
Manhattan Center Gallery last November, the
exhibition, ‘‘Sculpture in the 70s: The
Figure,’’ will be at Arizona State University
in Tempe, Ariz., and at Dartmouth College
Museum and Galleries later this year.

Mcllvain, assistant professor of art at
W&L, is also one of four sculptors whose
works are included in a book by Frank
Goodyear, curator of the Pennsylvania
Academy, and will be part of an exhibition
to accompany the book. That exhibition will
travel in Europe later this year.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Two Washington and Lee ROTC
instructors, Army Captains Jerome Kelly and
Charles Hill, received ‘‘impact’’
presentations from the Honorable John O.
Marsh Jr., secretary of the Army, for their

throughout the country.

24

 

Sculptor-in-Residence Isabel Mcllvain, whose works are being exhibited

work with the George C. Marshall ROTC
Awards Conference.

—Capt. Robert C. Peniston, director of
Lee Chapel, presented a slide-lecture
program at the Smithsonian Institution. Capt.
Peniston’s presentation, ‘‘Dreadnaught
Farewell: Role of the Battleship in the War at
Sea,’’ was part of a week-long program on
the history of the U.S. Navy.

—Almand R. Coleman, distinguished
lecturer in accounting, made an oral
presentation at the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s public hearing in New
York in May. The hearing was on Reporting
Fund Flows, Liquidity, and Financial
Flexibility.

—Dr. George W. Ray III, professor of
English, presented a paper at the first annual
Symposium in the Humanities at Ohio State
University in May. Ray’s paper was entitled
‘‘Finding Winnie’s ‘Lost Classics’ in Samuel
Beckett’s ‘Happy Days.’ ”’

—Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law,
is the author of an article in the winter issue
of the University of Pittsburgh Law Review.
The article is entitled ‘“‘The Moral Theology
of Atticus Finch’’ and uses the literary
character Atticus Finch, the lawyer in the
Pulitzer Prize-winning novel To Kill A
Mockingbird, to illustrate the moral and
ethical dilemmas that may confront a
practicing attorney.

—DMinor Rogers, associate professor of
religion, and James Takashi Yashiro,
Howerton scholar-in-residence, presented a
paper entitled ‘‘On Becoming Genuinely
Human as a Religious Category’’ during a
conference at Colgate University in May.

Law professor Thomas L. Shaffer, author of an article on legal ethics also

—An article by Minor Rogers, associate
professor of religion, has been published in
the spring issue of Monumenta Nipponica, a
publication of Sophia University in Tokyo,
Japan. Rogers’ article is entitled “‘Rennyo
and Jodo Shinshu Piety: The Yoshizaki
Years.”’

—Ten students and six faculty members
presented papers at the 59th annual meeting
of the Virginia Academy of Science in May.
Participating in the chemistry section were
Dr. Micahel A. Pleva, associate professor of
chemistry; Dr. J. Keith Shillington, professor
of chemistry; Dr. John H. Wise, professor of
chemistry; and, Daniel V. Young, a senior
from Washington, D.C. In physics, Edward
A. Johnson, a senior from Huntsville, Ala.,
participated. In psychology, the participants
were Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology; Dr. Joseph B. Thompson,
professor of psychology; Edward G. Brooks,
a senior from Houston, Tex.; David J.
Hepler, a junior from Chatham Township,
N.J.; Craig Albanese, a sophomore from
Melville, N.Y.; Robert D. Shaver, a junior
from Quentin, Pa.; Thomas K. Creson III, a
junior from Memphis, Tenn.; John K.
Schmidt, a senior from Montville, N.J.; John
Stathakis, a senior from Anderson, S.C-.:
and, N. Jeffrey Herdelin, a senior from
Haddonfield, N.J.

—wWilliam Buchanan, professor of
politics and head of the politics department,
was presented an Honor Award in Political
Science from the Virginia Social Science
Association. The award was in recognition of
excellence of work and contributions to
scholarship.

 

delivered the address at the 1981 Senior Banquet.

 

 

 

 

 

Speakers on campus

—Jeff MacNelly, Pulitzer Prize-winning
editorial cartoonist for the Richmond News
Leader, gave a slide-lecture during which he
reviewed the 1980 presidential campaign as
it unfolded in his cartoons. He was
sponsored by Contact.

—Frank G. Abagnale Jr., whose
escapades as a con man are chronicled in a
book, Catch Me If You Can, related his
experiences as part of the Contact series of
lectures.

—Akira Iriye, professor of history and
chairman of the history department at the
University of Chicago, spoke on ‘“The
Japanese-American War, 1941-1945: Its
Political and Cultural Dimensions”’ in May.
Iriye’s speech was sponsored by the East
Asian Studies program and the history
department at W&L.

—Dr. Howard Brody, assistant professor
of family practice and philosophy and
assistant coordinator of the Medical
Humanities Program at Michigan State
University, was the featured speaker for the
seventh annual Medical Ethics Institute, a
part of W&L’s applied ethics program.
Brody’s speech was entitled ‘‘The Lie That
Heals: The Ethics of Giving Placebos.’’

—Howard Nemerov, one of America’s
leading writers of prose, poetry, and
criticism, presented the Glasgow Lectures for
1981 at the University in May. He delivered
three lectures and also read his poetry before
an audience of students, alumni, and other
guests during class reunion weekend.
Nemerov is currently the Edward

 

Editorial cartoonist and ‘‘Shoe’’ creator Jeff MacNelly of the Richmond News
Leader demonstrates his work in a program at Lee Chapel.

Mallinckrodt Distinguished University
Professor of English at Washington
University in St. Louis. A frequent visitor to
Washington and Lee, he was awarded an
honorary Doctor of Letters degree by W&L
in 1977. His visit was sponsored by the
Arthur and Margaret Glasgow Endowment,
established at W&L *‘to promote the arts of
expression by pen and tongue.’’

 

 

Law Center conference
probes regulatory issues

A three-day conference examining
regulatory issues relating to science and
technology was held at Washington and
Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center in April.

Sponsored jointly by the Law Center and
the National Center for Administrative
Justice, the conference included panel
discussions and presentations on such topics
as the Food and Drug Administration’s
public board of inquiry, the public’s
acceptance of regulatory decisions, and the
difference in cognitive styles of lawyers and
scientists.

Among the participants who presented
cases and papers at the conference were
Milton M. Carrow, executive director of the
National Center for Administrative Justice;
Judge Stephen G. Breyer of the U.S. Court
of Appeals, First Circuit; Dr. J. Williams
Haun of General Mills, Inc.; Dr. Charles U.
Lowe of the National Institute of Health;
Professor Jerry L. Mashaw of Yale Law
School; Dean Richard Merrill of the

the varsity squad, 3-0.

Members of the alumni soccer team relax during half time. The alumni lost to

University of Virginia School of Law, and
Professor Anna Harrison of Mt. Holyoke
College.

 

 

Marathon radio show
raises $670 for charity

Two Washington and Lee students, Eric
Fife and Steve Warren, received pledges
totaling $670 for the Rockbridge Area Relief
Association during a 50-hour radio marathon
they conducted in May.

Fife and Warren, both sophomores
majoring in journalism and communications
at W&L, signed on the air at WLUR-FM, the
campus radio station, at 6 p.m. Friday. They
still had enough voice left to sign off at 8
p.m. Sunday.

 

 

Varsity soccer team
tops alumni 3-0

Washington and Lee’s varsity soccer
squad shut out a team of W&L alumni, 3-0,
in the annual match that is part of Alumni
Weekend activities.

The Alumni squad, coached by Shaun
Levesque, ’78, had 19 participants, including
eight from the class of 1981. Howard Busse
of Cleveland, a 1966 graduate, was the
oldest alumnus to participate.

Goalie Kevin Carney, ’81, was named
the game’s Most Valuable Player.

 

25

LEE KAHN, 1934-1981

Remembrance of This Dedicated Playmaker Bespeaks the High Quality of Drama at W&L

Leonel L. Kahn Jr., associate professor
of drama who had taught at Washington and
Lee for 16 years, died on April 26 after a
long and courageous fight against cancer.
He was 46.

A native of New Orleans, he received his
bachelor’s degree in 1957 and his master’ s
degree in fine arts in 1959 from Tulane
University. He taught for three years at
Delta State University in Cleveland, Miss.,
before coming to W&L in 1965 as an
instructor in fine arts and director of the
Troubadour Theatre. Lee was noted for not
only producing plays of consistently high
quality but also for selecting plays of
unusual significance. He spent the 1970-71
academic year in Spain, where he studied
contemporary Spanish theatre. He also
conducted several spring term abroad
programs in which students studied theatre
in both London and Florence. In 1975, he
was executive vice president of the board of
the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
Memorials to Lee may be made to Washington
and Lee’s theatre building fund.

Lee is survived by his wife, Betty
Spitzberg Kahn, an accomplished actress
who appeared in many of Lee’s plays; two

_ sons, Jerome Kahn of Dallas and David

Kahn of Lexington; a daughter, Alyson Kahn
of Lexington; and a brother Carl J. Kahn of
Lafayette, La.

The following remembrance of Lee by a
former student of his, Kirk Woodward, ’69,
says much about Lee’s artistry and humanity
and also a great deal about the quality of
drama taught at Washington and Lee.

My impressions of Lee Kahn are
personal; nothing is more personal than
theatre. I remember, as a freshman in 1965,
walking to the Troubadour Theatre one night
to see Waiting for Godot. I had no way of
knowing then that Lee Kahn, as new to the
school as I was, had deliberately chosen for
his first production the most difficult play he
could think of. He had his problems with it,
too, and the performance (as I recall) was not
of the best.

All the same, Lee had given a clear and
definite signal of the kind of theatre program
he intended to run, and he stuck to his guns.
By the time his brilliant Marat/Sade came
around (fascinated, I saw every

26

 

Lee Kahn

performance), it was clear that something
outstanding was going on. Over the years
Lee chose only the most difficult plays; the
list includes The Homecoming, Arturo Ui,
Equus, The Bacchants, and The Investigation
(which deals with responsibility for the
holocaust).

As I gradually became acquainted with
Lee, I became aware that as a person this
theatrical radical was not at all what one
might expect: no wild-eyed Bohemian but a
devoted family man, conservative and
elegant in his tastes, fiercely loyal to and
protective of his students, and endearingly
terrified by the plays he chose to direct.
(Shakespeare’s plays, especially, scared him
stiff. It was typical of him, then, that he
chose to stage the most challenging ones:
King Lear, Troilius and Cressida, and, for
his final production, an uncut Hamlet.)

His approach to plays was refreshingly
unacademic. Usually he chose plays after
seeing, rather than reading them. He

 

preferred modern plays, responding to their
vitality, and he produced them as soon as he
could—before the bloom was off. (With the
classics, on the other hand, he would ‘‘live’’
with a play for as much as a year before
directing it.)

I had the idea that I might want to work
in theater, so I started watching rehearsals at
the Troubadour Theatre. I took verbatim
notes on many of those rehearsals, and they
give a marvelous picture of Lee as a director.
Much of a director’s time is spent dealing
with problems. Lee faced them with humor
and doggedness. ‘‘Are we going to have
sound tonight?’’ a stage manager asked him
once. **I don’t know, I just work here,’’ Lee
said. ‘“You just run the place!’’ said the
stage manager. ‘‘I wish,’’ Lee replied, ‘‘that
I could say that and mean it.’’ To the cast he
announced, ‘‘You’ll get sound tomorrow.
Tonight you’ll just have to suffer. You’re
supposed to suffer for your art. You should
see how much /’ve suffered.”’

Other problems:

ACTORS WITHOUT PENCILS: ‘‘T’Il
supply you one. This time. Next time you’ll
have to prick your finger and write in
blood.’’

DICTION: “‘We’re faced with a very
serious problem with British accents. Just
soften the vowels. Enunciate for an
equivalent. If you try a British accent, it’ll
come off, ‘I cahn’t, I cahn’t, I just
CAHN’ T!”’

MEN TRIPPING OVER PERIOD
COSTUMES: “‘Hold up your skirts. It’s
historical. Even the Greeks didn’t like falling
on their faces.”’

MOVEMENT DIFFICULTIES:
‘’Platforms always look smaller on this stage
than they do on paper. It’s part of the
disease.’”’

FORGETTING LINES IN A
TRAGEDY: “‘If you forget a line, there’s a
Greek alphabet. Or a Greek National
Anthem.’’

Lee delivered criticism (relatively little)
and praise (frequently) in exactly the same
manner, without apparent premeditation. He
was capable of inspiring a cast without
insulting its intelligence. This is a sample of
a late-rehearsal talk, which he gave to the
cast of The Homecoming:

 

 

His first production: Waiting for Godot. Lee directs from the first row.

Some shows we can lie our way through,

but not this one. I get feeling . . . helpless about
this because all I can do is talk to you. If you don’t
work and think the whole time, we’re lost.

You know what Pinter wants, what the play.
wants, and what I want. Now do it!

When rehearsal is over you should be so ex-
hausted—mentally, mostly—that you won’t be
able to do your homework. . Entertain

me! Move me, even.

Lee’s pool of available performers often
lacked depth. He knew this and accepted it
as part of his job. ‘‘I’ll have a hell of a fight
with him,’’ he told me once about a student
actor, ‘‘but he has the potential for what I
want.’’ He always kept his eye on the
educational function of a school theatre
program. “‘If a freshman enters this school
unaware of theatre,’’ he said once, ‘‘and
leaves at the end of four years knowing
there’s more out there than television, then I
feel I’ve done my job.”’

Rehearsals exhilerated him. He was
totally unable, however, to watch
performances, and spent them pacing
furiously out in the lobby. ‘‘If we could have
rehearsals and no performances I’d be
happy,” he said. ‘‘Personally I could care
less what people think about my
interpretation of a play. The performances
are for the actors—for their egos. They
deserve something for all that work.’’

 

Lee had extraordinarily sensitive
theatrical instincts. I worked as his assistant
director for King Lear. One day in his office
he predicted the exact date the production

would “‘jell’’ (come together, begin to live

on its own), and he named the date an entire
month in advance, marking it with an ‘‘x’’

Hamlet, the last play Lee directed at the University Theatre.

 

on the calendar. I kidded him about this for
the whole month, particularly during the
disastrous rehearsal the night before the date.
He smiled securely, not the least bit
perturbed, and the next night, to my utter
astonishment, the production ‘‘jelled’’ before
our eyes, just as he had said it would. I never
understood how he did that, any more than I
understood how he could correct an actor’s
movement during a performance, without
ever watching the actor, based entirely on the
way the performance sounded—a feat I saw
and verified for myself.

Theatre is a moment-to-moment art; it
has to be recreated, virtually from scratch,
time after time. All the same, its effects can
linger in people’s lives. Lee seemed to be
thinking along these lines when we talked
last January about his career. He told me:

Looking back, I see that so many of my pro-

ductions dealt with the subject of the truth,

with what is true and what is not. So many
people seem in danger of forgetting the truth
about what’s happening in the world. It scares
me. I think a college drama department should

stage The Investigation every five years, for
example—so people don’t forget.

Lee Kahn is not likely to be forgotten by
the people who have known him.

—KIRK WOODWARD, ’69

Zi

by Frederic L. Schwab

Professor of Geology

‘GO FRED’

The Excitement, the Panic and Pain, the Elation and Glory of the Boston Marathon

Fred Schwab, a distance runner of note,
competed again this year in the Boston
Marathon. His time was two hours, 57
minutes, 11 seconds. He placed 2,530th out
of 6,800 starters and 347th out of 1,774 men
between the ages of 40 and 49. He set down
for the Alumni Magazine the following
impressions of that grueling race:

April 16, 1981

Like marriage, a marathon is perhaps best
discussed both before and after the event. In
that spirit, it is appropriate that I jot down
some preliminary thoughts about the 1981
Boston Marathon before I actually line up on
the starting line.

First, a few words about marathons in
general and the Boston Marathon in
particular: A marathon is a 26-mile footrace
out on open roads in contrast to repetitious
circuits of a track. Because of the recent
running craze, an increasing number of
novices have been attempting this traditional
challenge for runners for many reasons—
mental self-satisfaction, a quick means of
weight loss, bragging rights on the cocktail
circuit, etc. To paraphrase the Harvard
Crimson, whose editors have been watching
competitors in the Boston pass by for
decades, the people of Boston know where
all those runners are going, but still don’t
know why!

Running a marathon requires several
months of training. The consensus is that one
must average about 60 miles of running per
week for two to three months before the
contest. I run about 3,500 miles per year,
entering just four or five marathons a year.

This year marks my fourth Boston and my
16th marathon overall.

There are marathons, and there is The
Boston Marathon. Boston is special for a
number of reasons, but mainly for its
traditions, the course itself, and the crowds
of spectators who witness the event. The
Boston is the oldest road race in America.
This year marks the 85th running. The race
is held each spring on the Monday closest to
April 19 to coincide with the annual
celebration of Patriots Day in Massachusetts,
commemorating the ride of Paul Revere, the
Minutemen at Lexington Green, and the
‘shots heard round the world’’ at Concord
Bridge. But what really makes the Boston

28

unique is that one must qualify to run there
by running in either the previous Boston or
other certified marathons during the previous
year within a certain maximum, age-adjusted
time limit. For example, a male runner under
40 qualifies with a time of two hours and 50
minutes (about six and a half minutes a mile
for 26 miles). A male runner from 40 to 49 is
given 20 minutes additional time (I’m 41).
These times are quite challenging. In most
conventional marathons, a sub-three-hour
time almost always puts one in the top 10
percent of the finishers, commonly in the top
five percent.

The Boston Marathon course is also
unusual. It is a point-to-point course. One
actually gets someplace! The start is in a
quaint New England village called
Hopkinton, complete with village green,
steepled churches, and an 18th-century
ambiance. The finish is in the heart of
Boston at the square in front of the 55-story
Prudential Center. The highspot (literally) or
lowpoint (psychologically) comes between
mile 18 and mile 22—a series of gentle, but
painfully long rises capped by the infamous
‘Heartbreak Hill.’’

Finally, Boston is well known for its
adoring crowds—a throng of between one
and two million spectators who line the
course to cheer the competitors, pelt them
with beer and derogatory remarks, or simply
share the holiday spirit that prevails on
Patriots Day.

April 20, 1981.

Race day at last! My family and I are up
at 6 a.m. I dress in my running togs, and we
drive 20 miles to Hopkinton. It’s imperative
to get to Hopkinton by 9 or 9:30 a.m. before
the state police seal off the town. For a few
hours each Patriots Day, the village swells
with as many as 30,000 would-be runners,
starting-line spectators, officials, and police,
taking on a carnival atmosphere as the
transitory running-capital of the world.

My family returns to my in-laws’ home
in Newton, conveniently located right on the
20-mile mark, to await my triumphant
passage. I eat my traditional, light, pre-race
breakfast unglamorously in the local drug
store, flanked by runners from Cleveland,
Buffalo, and San Diego. The newspapers tell
us that runners are entered from all 50 states

and 36 foreign countries. Washington and
Lee is well represented. A law student, Dean
Greer, will finish in the top 200, and Mike
Bartini, the director of financial aid, will be
700th. A ’79 graduate, Billy Webster, flops
down beside me as we await the start, and

we chat about the life back in Lexington.

It’s an excellent day for the runners:
bright intervals in a cloudy sky with
temperatures in the mid-50’s. The two
million spectators will be chilly. I arrive at
the start a scant 10 minutes before the 12-
noon gun and line up about halfway back in
the pack. One’s number is assigned
according to qualifying time. I’m seeded
274th out of about 3,000 ‘‘Masters’’ (over
40) runners, but behind all those younger
people hungry for athletic glory. We are
packed like sardines, and the air is charged
with excitement. Countless TV cameras
encourage our nervous waving; a dozen light
planes and helicopters circle over the starting
line. At precisely noon, the gun sounds, and
after a pause we begin haltingly to walk
toward Boston. After about two and a half
minutes, I cross the starting line and a slow
jog becomes possible. Another minute or so,
and the throng becomes unclogged enough so
that one can choose a running pace.

I’m hoping for a 2:55 marathon, about
Six minutes, 45 seconds per mile. The first
few miles go well. The crowds thicken and
thin, but are kept well back from the course.
I miss the first few mile posts I have
measured for myself on a pre-race-day
survey of the course. The Boston Marathon,
for all its claims to fame, is notoriously
poorly marked. I am a pace runner; I run at
almost constant pace for the entire marathon;
if anything, I speed up a bit toward the end.
At five miles, a digital electronic clock puts
me at 35 minutes; at 10 miles my time is 69
minutes. Both are pretty close to my goal
because two minutes will be subtracted from
my finish time to make up for time lost
before the starting line.

By the 10-mile mark, the crowds have
become more excited; the runners’ corridor
has narrowed to 20 feet across. People
frantically shout your number or the slogan
or name you ve had printed on your running
shirt. One guy runs the entire race
backwards. Another is dressed like
Superman, complete with flowing red cape. I

aa

 

 

 

 

accelerate and decelerate with the rising
crescendo of cheering. A highlight comes at
the halfway point—13 miles—at the far end
of the Wellesley College campus. As usual,
the women students are out in force, urging
the male runners on, but positively shrieking
for the women among us to pull ahead. I
can’t wipe the broad grin off my face for
about five minutes. It will be hard to return
to giving lectures on mineralogy after this! I
pass the halfway point at 1:28, a 2:56 pace,
and I’m happy with that. I’m holding my
own—not passing many, but not many are
passing me either.

Ten minutes of panic follow as my body
tells me that all is not well. I stop a couple of
times for a few seconds to rub muscles and
sip drinks offered almost constantly along the
way. I begin to run hesitatingly again,
remembering the three or four past marathons
that have not gone so well. However, at mile
18 several things begin to happen. The
adrenalin is flowing again, the fatigue has
evaporated, and I’m beginning to get that
feeling of elation that only a marathon man
can feel. I begin grinning again. Unhappily
though, the course begins to climb towards
the summit of Heartbreak Hill. Nevertheless,

Fred Schwab, preparing for another try at ‘Heartbreak Hill’’ in the hills of Rockbridge County.

Rockbridge County has prepared me well for
these hills, and I begin running faster than
most, passing people at a good clip. I’m
beginning really to enjoy this sensation.

At mile 21, I hear that Seko, the Japanese
Olympian, has just crossed the finish line in
record time. I pause and search out my wife,
kids, and in-laws lining the course. I tell
them that all is well, and they cheer me on
up the hill. My 11-year-old and 13-year-old
did such a good job of making ‘‘Go Fred’’
posters two years that we now have two
more children! I leave the knitted cap and
gloves I’ve been wearing with my wife and
am off again, so excited that I raise a
clenched fist from time to time and scream
excitedly. Beyond the summit of Heartbreak
Hill, just across from the Boston College
campus, I can see the Prudential Center
tower waiting for me four glorious miles
away, much of it a gentle downslope.

The last four miles are harder than I
thought they would be. I alternately
accelerate past groups of runners and then,
for a time, run along with a pack. I hesitate
to stop again for a drink for fear that the
body will balk at starting again. Lingering in
the back of my mind is a fear of the almost

 

 

total physical collapse that has hit me toward
the end of some past marathons. But I keep
moving and with two miles to go, I know I’ll
make it.

At Fenway Park, the Red Sox fans line
the course to push us on in. Kenmore
Square, one mile from the finish, is choked
with people. Mounted police and police on
motorcycles move back and forth before the
crowds to preserve for us a path to the finish.
Heaven certainly can’t be any better than this
glorious run through this corridor of cheers.

The last mile is the best of all. I show off
with waves and grins as best my body will
permit. Finally it’s a sprint down a side street
off Commonwealth Avenue and around a
bend into the plaza where the finish line is
located. I’m convinced that these 100,000
Screaming people have waited all this time
just for me! I sprint across the finish line,
both fists upraised as 2:57 flashes on the
finish-line clock. As someone wraps me in a
huge sheet of aluminum foil, I’m overcome
with ecstasy and depression at the same time.
I’ve done it! But how can I go back to being
Fred Schwab, professor of geology, for 365
more days until Patriots Day, 1982!

I love it!

29

SPRING SPORTS ROUNDUP

Lacrosse Team Ekes Out a Winning Season; Fellin Sets 13-9 Record in Pole Vault

 

 

Lacrosse team finishes
with 6-5 record

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse team
finished its season with a 6-5 record after
back-to-back losses to powerful North
Carolina and the University of Maryland-
Baltimore County in the Generals’ final two
contests.

Those two defeats, including a
heartbreaking 12-11 overtime loss to UMBC
to end the season, came after the Generals
had produced one of their high points of the
season by rallying from a seven-goal deficit
in the second half to edge Roanoke College,
14-12.

For the season, attackman Rob Staugaitis
and midfielder Geoff Brent paced the W&L
offense. Staugaitis, a junior from
Farmingdale, N.Y., had 30 assists to lead the
team in that department for the third season.
Brent, a senior from Baltimore, Md., scored
24 goals.

Other offensive leaders included
sophomore Geoff Wood with 21 goals; junior
Mike Schuler with 16 goals; and senior
George Santos with 15.

Junior Ware Palmer, who enjoyed one of
his best afternoons of the season in the finale
with UMBC, started most of the year in goal
for the Generals. Palmer, sophomore Chip
Knudson, and freshman Mark Lukes
combined to stop 53.8 percent of the
Opponents’ shots.

 

 

Lovell and Gaker win
All-America tennis honors

Washington and Lee seniors Pete Lovell
and Doug Gaker earned All-America honors
in NCAA Division III tennis by finishing
second in the national tournament at
Salisbury, Md., in May.

The performance by Lovell and Gaker
marked the fifth consecutive year that a
W&L entry has earned All-America
recognition in Division III tennis. It was the
third time the Generals have been represented
in the doubles’ final at the national
tournament—Ben Johns and Stewart Jackson
won the title in 1977, and the same Johns-
Jackson team finished second in 1978.

30

       

 

= SES c
Junior attackman Rob Staugaitis takes time out after
the North Carolina game.

In the title match, Lovell and Gaker lost
to Jim Hern and Shaun Miller of Gustavus
Adolphus (Minn.) College, 4-6, 6-2, 7-5.

Their doubles performance combined
with opening round singles victories by both
players gave W&L a total of six points in the
tournament for a sixth-place finish in the
team standings. Swarthmore and Claremont-
Mudd College tied for the team title.

Lovell of Bedford, N.H., had previously
gained All-America status during the 1980
championships while Gaker, who is from
Middleton, Ohio, won an All-America award
for the first time. The two players, who had
an 18-14 overall record during the spring,
also competed in the NCAA Division I
tournament in Athens, Ga.

 

 

Nunley is first winner
of ODAC scholar award

Lonnie D. (Chip) Nunley, a Washington
and Lee senior from Bristol, Va., received
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference’s first
annual Harry G. Jopson Scholar-Athlete
Award in May.

Nunley was selected for the honor by

 

athletic directors of the league’s eight
member institutions.

An English and politics major with a 3.4
grade point average, Nunley earlier became
W&L’s ninth recipient of an NCAA Post-
Graduate Scholarship. A three-year football
and track letterman who won All-ODAC
honors in football as a junior and senior,
Nunley will enter the University of
Virginia’s law school in the fall.

 

 

Golf team is second
in ODAC championships

Washington and Lee’s golf team
compiled an impressive 12-0 dual match
record and finished second in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
championships this spring.

Though all team members had a hand in
the season, co-captain Gerry Barousse led the
Generals in four of its victories and also
paced the W&L squad during the ODAC
tournament when he posted a 36-hole score
of 154. Barousse is a senior from New
Orleans.

Other key team members included junior
Del Agnew, a first-year player who won All-
ODAC honors during the conference
tournament; junior co-captain Bill Alfano,
who led the Generals to a fourth-place finish
in the 14-team Gobbler Classic at Virginia
Tech; and junior Jim Kaplan and freshman
Bruce Blythe, both of whom paced the team
in dual match play.

 

 

Fellin sets records
in pole-vault events

Gene Fellin, a sophomore from Hazleton,
Pa., provided several record-setting
performances in the pole vault to help the
Washington and Lee track and field team
post a 4-3 regular season record and a third
place finish in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships.

Fellin, who tied the W&L pole vault
record of 13 feet, 3 inches during the indoor
season, set a new mark of 13-6 in April
during the ODAC meet which he won. Six

 

 

 

 

 

Senior track co-captain Billy Morris picks up the
pace in the 200-meter run.

days later, Fellin broke his own record with a
vault of 13-9 in the final dual meet of the
Generals’ season.

Aside from Fellin’s individual title,
W&L benefitted in the ODAC meet from

 

 

 

Baseball catcher Tom Coates, ’81, arrives safely
at third.

second place finishes by junior John McKee
in the shot put, sophomore Eric Nelson in the
discus and the mile relay team of seniors
Billy Morris and R. J. Scaggs and freshman
Eroll Skyers and Paul Chapman.

 

 

 

Baseball team earns
berth in ODAC tournament

Under the tutelage of new head coach Craig
Jones, Washington and Lee’s baseball team
finished with a 10-14 record and earned the
Generals’ first appearance in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tournament.

The Generals lost their first game in the
ODAC tournament, 14-7, to eventual
champion Lynchburg.

In addition to recording the most victories
since 1972, the Generals produced some
Strong statistics, improving their team batting
average from .244 to .287, their stolen bases
from 14 to 55, and their team fielding
percentage from .914 to .936.

Individually, Jeff Haggerty, a junior from
North Haven, Conn., led W&L with a .362
average and hit eight home runs to lead the
ODAC in that category. Sophomore Chris
Cavalline of St. Mary’s, Pa., had a .360
average with a team-high 31 hits. Four other
Generals had averages above .300. They were
freshman Mike Walsh of Syossett, N.Y., at
.338; sophomore Jim Daly of Columbus,
Ohio, at .333; senior Tom Coates of Berlin,
Md., at .326, and freshman David Warrenfeltz
of Smithsburg, Md., at .303.

David Randall, a junior righthander from
Bel Air, Md., compiled a 4-3 record and a4. 17
earned run average to lead the pitchers.

 

 

Scaggs, Broccoli, Rock
win top sports awards

Seniors R. J. Scaggs of Roanoke, Va.,
and Jerry Broccoli of Levittown, N.Y., and
freshman Tim Rock of San Antonio, Texas,
received the top honors at Washington and
Lee’s annual All-Sports Awards Ceremony in
May.

Scaggs earned the Preston R. Brown
Memorial Award as the outstanding senior
athlete. A three-year letterman in both
basketball and track, Scaggs was co-captain
for both sports during his senior seasons. He
is the school record holder in the 400-meter
dash and won that event at the 1980 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference outdoor
championships. Scaggs was a forward for the
basketball Generals and received the team’s

31

SPRING SPORTS ROUNDUP

Coaches and Captains Award as the best
defensive player in 1979, 1980 and 1981.

Broccoli was the recipient of the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship Award.
He was a four-year lacrosse and one-year
wrestling letterman. Broccoli received the
lacrosse team’s T. W. Martin Memorial
Award this spring for his spirit, desire, and
dedication. He earned his wrestling letter this
past winter competing in the 142-pound
weight class.

Rock was presented the Outstanding
Freshman Athlete Award. He won All-
America status in water polo and swimming,
thereby becoming the first W&L athlete
since Bill Brumback, ’71, to earn All-
America recognition in two sports.
(Brumback did it in lacrosse and swimming. )
Rock finished fifth in the 1650-yard freestyle
at the NCAA Division III Championship in
March after being named to the second team
of the College Division All-America Water
Polo team as selected by the College Water
Polo Coaches’ Association.

 

 

Two lacrosse players
win All-America honors

Geoff Brent, a midfielder from

 

Geoff Brent

Baltimore, and Jim Herbert, a defenseman
from Winston-Salem, N.C., received
Division I All-America recognition from the
U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association.
They also represented W&L in the 40th
annual North-South All-Star Lacrosse Game
at Carrier Dome in Syracuse, N.Y., in mid-
June. They were members of the 25-man
South squad in the game in which the
nation’s top college seniors competed.
Brent was named to the USILA third
team, and Herbert earned honorable-mention
laurels. Also in June, the two joined

 

J im Herbert

approximately 100 of the nation’s best
college and club lacrosse players at tryout
camps for the U.S. World Championship
team. This team will compete against teams
from Canada, Australia, and England in June
1982 for the world title.

Several other W&L graduates tried out
for the championship team: goalie Bob
Clements, ’80; attackman Jeff Fritz, ’79;
defenseman Tom Kiegler, ’77; and
midfielder Skip Lichtfuss, ’74. The 1982
world championships will be held at Johns
Hopkins’ Homewood Field in Baltimore.

 

Fall Sports Schedules
Football
Sept. 12 Gettysburg HOME
Sept. 19 Emory & Henry Away
Sept. 26 Centre HOME
Oct. 3 Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 10 Maryville HOME
(Homecoming)
Oct. 17 Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 24 University of the South Away
Oct. 31 Bridgewater HOME
(Parents’ Weekend)

Nov. 7 Catholic University Away
Nov. 14 Georgetown HOME
Soccer
Sept. 16 Mary Washington HOME
Sept. 19 Maryville Away
Sept. 26 Haverford HOME
Sept. 29 Eastern Mennonite HOME

32

Oct. 3. Davidson Away
Oct. 6 Hampden-Sydney HOME
Oct. 10 Radford Away
Oct. 14 Gettysburg Away
Oct. 21 Roanoke HOME
Oct. 24 Messiah HOME
Oct. - 29°. VM HOME
Oct. 31 Lynchburg Away
Nov. 3. Virginia Wesleyan Away
Nov. 7 University of Richmond HOME
Nov. 9 University of Virginia Away

Cross Country
Sept. 26 Mary Washington,

Washington College Away
Oct. 3. Roanoke, Norfolk State Away
Oct. 10 Lynchburg, Christopher

Newport, Norfolk State Away
Oct. 17 Bridgewater HOME
Oct. 24 West Virginia Tech Away
Oct. 31 Eastern Mennonite, Hampden-

Sydney, Lynchburg Away

Nov. 7
Nov. 14
Sept. 12-

13
Sept. 18-

19
Sept. 25-

26
Oct. 2-3
Oct. 9-11
Oct. 16-18
Oct. 23-25
Oct. 31
Nov. 7-8
Nov. 13-

15

ODAC Championships Away
NCAA Division II

Regionals Away

Water Polo

Officials & Coaches

Clinic HOME
Water Polo Revue

Fall Classic HOME
Washington & Lee

Invitational HOME
Slippery Rock Tourn. Away

Southern League Tourn. HOME
Bucknell Tournament Away
Southern League Tourn. Away
Virginia State

Championships Away
Southern League

Championships HOME
Eastern

Championships Away

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

 

Fristoe, ’40, enjoy the chapter’ s cocktail-dinner party.

High Hope Steeplechase.

PHOENIX. Area alumni gathered for
luncheon on Oct. 28 at the Other Place in
Scottsdale to welcome Van Pate, ’71,

W&L’s associate director of admissions, on
his first visit to recruit potential students in
the region. During the meeting, the alumni
decided to form a Phoenix Alumni Chapter.
Walter Hunter, ’50, was elected president of
the new chapter. Everyone was interested in
Pate’s remarks about the expanded recruiting
efforts of the University and his report on the
current state of the campus.

TUCSON. Van Pate, ’71, associate
director of admissions, took time from his
student recruitment efforts in Arizona to
address alumni from the Tucson area at a
luncheon on Oct. 30 at the Aztec Inn. He
reported on the expansion of Washington and
Lee’s recruiting efforts, the long range
admissions situation, and developments on
campus. In a brief business meeting, the
group decided to organize a Tucson Chapter.

DELMARVA—B. C. Tolley Jr., ’48L, David R. Hackett, ’69L, and James P.

large group of alumni, including Ben Walden, ’ 53 j
Mrs. Alex Alexander, and Dr. Alexander Jr., ’63, enjoyed a luncheon at the

 

WASHINGTON—At the chapter’s April 8 reception were Mrs. Holt Merchant, cs

 

Jay Meriwether, ’70, Holt Merchant, ’61, Mrs. L. C. Atkins, and Tom Howard,

68.

 

EASTERN KENTUCK Y—Among the guests at the Alexander home were (front |
row): John Bagby, ’73L, Gordon B. Mills, ’51L, Sidney Roseberry, ’73, Tom

 

Bennett, Fred Francis, ’39L, and W. C. Washburn, ’40. Back row: Alex
Alexander, ’63, Kent Brown, ’74L, Gwathmey Tyler III, ’64, and Terry Tyler, ’72.

Dr. F. Pendleton Gaines Jr., ’39, was elected
president of the new chapter. Everyone was
grateful to Lee Mullins, ’58, for organizing
the meeting.

DELMARVA. An enthusiastic group of
alumni and wives attended a cocktail-dinner
party on March 28, 1981, at the Talbot
Country Club in Easton, Md. The
arrangements were made by Col. Jim Fristoe,
"40. James Slay, ’65, ’71L, chapter
president, announced plans for future chapter
activities through the summer months.

WASHINGTON. High School seniors from
the Washington area who have been offered
admission by Washington and Lee were
entertained at a reception on April 8 at the
University Club. Officers of the chapter
greeted'20 young men and their parents. The
informal gathering allowed students and
parents to meet each other and to ask
questions of the representatives of the

University, history professor J. Holt
Merchant, ’61, and Buddy Atkins, ’68,
assistant alumni secretary. Mrs. Merchant
and Mrs. Atkins were also present. Tom
Howard, ’68, chapter president, and Jay
Meriwether, ’70, past president, were
pleased with the successful evening.

EASTERN KENTUCKY. Alumni and
guests of the chapter joined on April 26 in
Lexington for the High Hope Steeplechase,
Kentucky’s elegant sports event that rivals
the Derby. Events of the day included a
buffet luncheon and box seats which
provided a spectacular view of the races
under clear and sunny skys. Following the
race a dinner was held at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. J. Alexander Alexander, ’63. John
Bagby, ’73, chapter president, made the
arrangements, and Bill Washburn, ’40, the
national alumni secretary, was present. Plans
were made for a joint meeting with the
Louisville Chapter.

33

WIR

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 714.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to ‘‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $50.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $110.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $95.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $50.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

34

1926

EDWIN A. Morris of Greensboro, N.C., former
chairman of the board of Blue Bell, Inc., was awarded
the North Carolina Citizens Association’s Citation
for Distinguished Citizenship. U.S. Senator Jesse
Helms presented the citation. Morris joined Blue Bell
in 1937. He became president and chief executive
officer of the apparel manufacturing company in
1948. In 1966 he was appointed chairman of the
board. He was CEO until 1974 and gave up his
chairmanship in 1981, but remains a director of the
worldwide corporation. Morris, in addition to his
outstanding record with Blue Bell, was cited for his
generosity to Duke University toward the building of
the Edwin A. Morris Clinical Cancer Research
Building.

1927

RABBI DAvID H. Wise of Philadelphia retired on June
1, 1981, after 48 years in active ministry and will
become rabbi emeritus.

1928

GABE LEWIS CAMPBELL, a consultant and profes-
sional engineer in Flagstaff, Ariz., has received life
membership in the National Society of Professional
Engineers.

O. RAYMOND CunDIFF of Lynchburg, Va., retired
Feb. 1, 1981, as chief judge of the 24th Judicial
Circuit of Virginia. He was on the bench for 32 years.

1934

Dr. RALPH D. WHITLEY has retired from the practice
of surgery and is now a medical member of the board
of veterans appeals.

1936

Dr. JOHN T. HERWICK retired after 38 years as staff
physician for the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit,
Mich. His primary concern was with the executive
health program. He lives in Farmington Hills.

WALTER T. LAWTON is associated with the New
York Life Insurance Co. in New York and resides in
White Plains. He is also a leader with the American
Ethical Union and does considerable speaking and
counseling.

A. LEE REESER operates Lee Reeser Associates, Inc.,
a manufacturer’s representative in the food service
industry. The firm acts as manager of hotel and res-
taurant equipment and supplies for several factories
in the Berwyn, Pa., area.

HENRY H. STAEHLING is vice president for market-
ing for D. P. Facilities, Inc., in New York City, a
firm for designing and building data centers.

1937

C. A. BUTTERWORTH JR. retired in November 1980

 

 

 

as fiscal and securities analyst for the state of Florida.

THEODORE M. PLOWDEN has retired from the phar-
maceutical manufacturing firm of Richardson-
Merrill. He and his wife have moved from Connecti-
cut to Hilton Head Island, S.C.

JOHN W. Ray has retired as supervisory management
specialist with the federal government.

WILLIAM C. WILBUR JR. has returned to his teaching
duties at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla., after
a sabbatical in Oxford, England, where he was affili-
ated with Corpus Christi College and did research in
the Bodleian Library. In the May issue of the maga-
zine, Corpus Christi College was erroneously listed
as being in Texas. The editors regret the error.

FILLMORE G. WILSON of Houston, Texas, is currently
working with J. E. Sirrine Co. as an assistant project
engineer on Weyerhaeuser Company’s new pulp and
paper mill complex at Columbus, Miss. He is also
involved in the development of a low cost, rapid
deployment public transportation system known as
*“ENSAPEM.”’

1938

Jay H. REID retired from the International Monetary
Fund in June 1980. A one-time Washington corres-
pondent for the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, the
New York Herald Tribune, and the Wall Street Jour-
nal, Reid joined the IMF in 1948 as director of
information. He and his wife live in Bethesda, Md.

WILLIAM M. ROGERS retired from the American
Tobacco Co. in November 1979 after 41 years of
service.

1940

EDWARD G. RoFF is a retired San Diego, Calif., city
school administrator.

194]

HENRY T. CROCKER Jr. has retired after 15 years
service as public affairs officer with the Army at the
Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland.

ROBERT C. PETREY has been named a fellow of the
American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Petrey,
vice president of Eastman Kodak and an assistant
general manager of the Eastman Chemicals Division,
was named for his superior attainments and his valu-
able contributions and service to chemical engineer-
ing. He is amember of the East Tennessee Section of
the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Petrey
has been a director and chairman of the budget and
admissions committee and a member of the executive
committee of the Kingsport Community Chest. He is
a member of the Greater Kingsport Area Chamber of
Commerce.

1942

C. Tom GarTON has been area sales representative
for WSAZ-TV in Huntington, W.Va., for the last

 

five years. A resident of Parkersburg, he is a member
of the Municipal Parking Commission, active in the
Chamber of Commerce, and a member of the advisory
board of the Salvation Army.

BEVERLEY W. LEE enjoys his retirement from public
accounting practice in Hampton, Va. He still serves
as an adjunct professor of accounting at Christopher
Newport College.

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Arkansas—Lee S. Thalheimer, ’73, Laser Sharp Haley Young &
Huckabay, P.A., 1 Spring St., Little Rock, Ark. 72201
Atlanta—Madison F. Cole Jr., ’71, Johnson & Higgins, 17th Floor,
Trust Co. Bank Tower, Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—Randolph W. Brinton, 68, Baker, Watts & Co., P.O.
Box 1796, Baltimore, Md. 21203

Birmingham—Charles D. Perry Jr., ’73, Dean Witter Reynolds, 417
North 20th St., Suite 700, Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank of
Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74L, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, S.C.—Rutherford P. C. Smith, ’68, ’74L, Furman,
Jenkins & Buist, P.O. Box 10867, Charleston, S.C. 29411
Charleston, W.Va.—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, ’68L, P.O. Box
2791, Charleston, W. Va. 25330

Charlotte—Henry A. Harkey, ’71, 1428 Cavendish Ct., Charlotte,
N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Allen C. Brown, ’72, Brown Associates, 2100 Broad
St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37408

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’°65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, II]. 60603
Cincinnati—Smith Hickenlooper III, ’64, Bartlett & Co., 120 E.
Fourth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—James B. Crawford III, ’67, ’72L, P.O. Box
711, Charles Town, W.Va. 25414

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, P.O. Box 344-108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 123 King William St.,
Newark, Del. 19711

DelMarVa—James M. Slay Jr., ’65, ’71L, Henry, Hairston & Price,
P.O. Box 838, Easton, Md. 21601

Detroit—James W. Large, ’68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, ’73L, 113 Clay Avenue,
Lexington, Ky. 40502

Eastern North Carolina—Walter S. Lockhart III, ’69, St. Mary’s
Day School, Rt. 1, Box 221A, Hillsborough, N.C. 27278

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, ’73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, ’66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., °64, 11847 Memorial Dr.,
Houston, Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Harold H. Catlin, ’71, Howell, Howell, Liles,
Braddock & Milton, 901 Blackstone Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ’°71, U.S. Engineering Co., 3433
Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., ’41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—William C. Washbum Jr., ’66, 1640 Spottswood Place,
Lynchburg, Va. 24503

Mid-South—Fred M. Ridolphi Jr., ’64, 4735 Normandy Rd.,
Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Middle Tennessee—Richard F. Cummins, ’59, 1225 Chickering Rd.,
Nashville, Tenn. 37215

1944

WALLACE E. CLayTON is a partner in ownership of
the O.K. Corral and the Crystal Palace Saloon, his-
toric properties in Tombstone, Ariz. He is editor of
the Tombstone Epitaph and is presently writing a
book about its founder.

ALFRED L. HELDMAN has been representing Texo
Corp., manufacturers of industrial chemicals to the

Mobile-McGowin I. Patrick, ’60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—aAlan D. Frazer, ’72, 23 Bacon St., Bedford, Mass.
01730

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, ’68, 200 Carondelet St., New
Orleans, La. 70130

New York—Paul W. Perkins, ’74, The Chase Manhattan Bank, 1
Chase Manhattan Plaza, 34th Floor, Real Estate Finance, New York,
N.Y. 10081

Northern California—W. Nat Baker, ’67, 2737 Polk St., Apt. 5, San
Francisco, Calif. 94109

Northwest Louisiana—G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, Route 1, Box 236,
Shreveport, La. 71115

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ’66, Abbott & McMurry, 414
Park/Harvey Center, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 129 Le Hane
Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—Claude M. Walker Jr., ’71, Standard Warehouse Inc.,
P.O. Box 5263, Columbia, S.C. 29250

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, ’52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—David T. Johnson Jr., °68, P.O. Drawer 12585,
Pensacola, Fla. 32573

Philadelphia—Bruce C. Lee, ’71, Bolger & Picker, 860 Suburban
Station Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 19103
Phoenix—Walter E. Hunter, ’50, Russ Lyon Realty Co., 6750 E.
Camelback Rd., Scottsdale, Ariz. 85251

Piedmont—John A. Cocklereece Jr., ’76, "79L, Womble Carlyle
Sandridge & Rice, Wachovia Bldg. , Suite 2400, Winston-Salem, N.C.
27102

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, 56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—David D. Redmond, ’66, 69L, Christian Barton Epps
Brent & Chappell, 1200 Mutual Bldg., Richmond, Va. 23219
Roanoke—James W. Jennings Jr., °65, ’72L, 2710 Rosalind Ave.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

St. Louis—Wallace D. N iedringhaus Jr., 66, First National Bank of
St. Louis, P.O. Box 267, St. Louis, Mo. 63166

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, ’71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205

San Diego—John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, Whitney & Klinedinst, 1241
State St., San Diego, Calif. 92101

Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, ’73, The Equitable Life Assurance
Society, 1015 Berryville Ave., Suite 3, Winchester, Va. 22601
South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ’74, P.O. Box
695, Greenville, S.C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, ’53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southside Virginia—Robert T. Vaughan, ’79L, Meade, Tate &
Daniel, P.O. Box 720, Danville, Va. 24541

Tidewater—Howard W. Martin, ’64, 1335 Armistead Bridge Rd.,
Norfolk, Va. 23507

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’°69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25701

Tucson—F. Pendleton Gaines Jr., ’39, 3919 E. Cooper St., Tucson,
Ariz. 85711

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, ’78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla. 74104
Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502
Washington—Thomas L. Howard, ’68, Colton & Boykin, 1133 15th
St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005

Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, ’53, 108 Inwood Rd.,
Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abilene,
Texas 79605

Wisconsin—David R. Braun, ’76, The Travelers-LHFS, 711 East
Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Wisc. 53202

35

CLASS NOTES

paper and metalworking industries in Ohio, Kentucky
and Indiana, for 34 years.

FREDERICK B. Rowe, a professor of psychology at
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, is finance
chairman of the Lynchburg League of Women Voters.
A member of the Virginia Psychology Association,
Rowe chairs the board of scientific affairs.

1945

R. EDWARD JACKSON has been named managing edi-
tor of the Washington Star. Jackson has worked in the
news business for 34 years, 10 years with United
Press in London, Rome and New York, and 24 years
with Time Magazine as a contributing editor, Rome
bureau chief, deputy chief of correspondents, inter-
national editor and Washington news editor. He be-
came editor of the Time-Life News Service at the Star
in October 1980 and was promoted to managing
editor in April 1981. He and his wife, Kathleen, who
is a copy editor at Time-Life Books, live in the Old
Town section of Alexandria, Va.

1948

JAMES R. LYLE is currently president of the St.
Petersburg, Fla., Bar Association.

1949

THOMAS S. HOok retired after 14 years with the
Federal Aviation Administration. He is currently act-
ing chief of the public inquiry center in the office of
public affairs. The 1 1th edition of his book [Illustrated
Flying Basics was recently published. He is also
author of two histories of U.S. Navy airships, Shen-
andoah Saga and Sky Ship: The Akron Era.

THE REv. JAMES T. MAGRUDER has been doing mis-
sion consultations in Korea and Japan. He led travel
seminars for the Presbyterian Church in Columbia
and Brazil during 1980.

WILLIAM C. SMITH Jr. is senior minister with the
Congregational United Church of Christ in Greens-
boro, N.C.

CHARLES R. TREADGOLD is president of Hamlin,
Robert & Ridgeway Ltd., an Albany, N.Y., firm
offering professional risk management and all forms
of insurance. Prior to this position, Treadgold was
supervisor of the business analysis unit of the Aetna
Life Insurance Co. In 1973, he and several insurance
executives organized Hamlin, Robert & Ridgeway.
Treadgold has also been an executive in casualty
firms in West Virginia, New Jersey, Nebraska, Con-
necticut, Ohio, Virginia, Wisconsin and New York.
He moved to Albany in 1970 as general manager of
Paul Revere Life Insurance Co.

TAIT TRUSSELL, a long-time Washington editor and
communications executive, has been named vice
president for administration of the American Enter-
prise Institute for Public Policy Research. Trussell is
currently senior vice president of the American Forest
Institute. He was a prize-winning journalist with Na-

36

tion’s Business magazine, editor of Congressional
Quarterly, and a reporter for Wall Street Journal, the
Washington Star and the St. Petersburg, Fla., Times.

U.S. SEN. JOHN W. WARNER JR. delivered the com-
mencement address at the University of Richmond on
May 10, 1981, and received an honorary doctor of
laws degree.

1950

W. RANDOLPH Cosy JR. continues with the W. G.
Cosby Transfer and Storage Co., a Richmond firm
started by his grandfather. He is also president of
Southeastern Warehouseman and Movers Associa-
tion.

ATWELL DUGGeR is currently the materials manager
at the instrument plant of Corning Medical and Scien-
tific, a division of Corning Glass Works. He has
worked for Corning Glass for 21 years and lives in
Medway, Mass., where he is treasurer of the Com-
munity Church.

Dr. ROBERT V. JOEL is a pathologist in Jacksonville,
Fla. He and his wife, the former Sharon Werner, have
two sons and a daughter.

JOsEPH N. MorratT, has been promoted to the newly-
created post of director of financial communications
on Reynolds Metals Company’s public relations staff
in Richmond, Va. For the past 9 years Moffatt has
been Northwest public relations manager for Reynolds
in Portland, Ore. During that time he was active in
energy and environmental affairs for the company
and twice served as chairman of Western Aluminum
Producers. Moffatt worked as a newspaper reporter
on the Roanoke Times and for a number of years was
news director for WSLS-TV in Roanoke. He joined
Reynolds public relations staff in Richmond in 1965
and held a number of positions before becoming
western regional public relations manager in Los
Angeles in 1969. He transferred to Portland in 1972.
Moffatt is married to the former Adelee M. Miller of
Roanoke.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE has been named national listings
director by New America Network, the nationwide
affiliation of independent commercial-industrial real
estate firms. With over 12 years in major commercial-
industrial realty organizations, Trundle, a licensed
broker, has been involved in the sale and leasing of
commercial and industrial land and buildings, de-
velopment of demographic and marketing research
data and property management and appraisal. He
represented a leading airline in dealings with major
corporation and government agencies. Trundle has
been vice president of the Commercial, Industrial and
Investment Brokers of South Jersey, and chairman of
the advisory economic development board of Cherry
Hill, N.J.

1951]

DONALD M. FERGUSSON continues as an executive in
the insurance business in Richmond, Va. Fergusson

 

R. P. Smith Jr.

has officiated at more than 172 major college football
games in the Southern Conference.

1952

CHARLES B. (CHOO CHOO) CASTNER JR., a manager
of news services for the Family Lines Rail System in
Louisville, Ky., recently helped plan the display and
operation of a steam-powered passenger train pro-
moting rail-highway grade crossing safety. He
planned much of the promotion for the train, ‘‘Safety
Express,’’ and accompanied it on part of its tour
through the Southeast. In early April, Castner and
classmate THOMAS N. Harris were heard rattling the
rafters of houses in suburban Dallas and Ft. Worth
with their torrid 8-to-the bar piano jazz. Harris, for-
merly in Chicago, now lives in Ft. Worth where he is
employed by the Tandy Corp.

1953

Dr. JOHN DaviD MaGurrE, president of the State
University of New York College of Old Westbury for
the past 11 years, has been named president of Clare-
mont University Center, the central coordinating in-
stitution of the six Claremont Colleges which includes
Pomona, Scripps, Claremont Men’s, Harvey Mudd
and Pitzer, as well as the Claremont Graduate School.
Maguire began his academic career in 1954 after
returning from the University of Edinburgh in Scot-
land, where he was a Fulbright Scholar. After
graduation from Yale Divinity School he directed
Yale’s International Student Center and completed
his doctorate in theology and psychiatry. Maguire
became Old Westbury’s second president in 1970. In
1978 he was selected by the American Council on
Education and Change magazine as one of the 100
young leaders in American higher education. He has
traveled extensively in Europe, the Middle East and
the Far East. He received an honorary Doctor of
Letters degree from W&L in 1979. Maguire is a
trustee of Monmouth College in New Jersey. He is a
member of the board of directors of the Association
of American Colleges, a trustee of the Martin Luther
King Jr. Center for Social Change in Atlanta and the
Institute of International Education, and a former
member of the board of the Danforth Foundation’s
National Advisory Council on Graduate Fellowships.
He and his wife, the former Lillian Louise Parrish,
have three daughters.

Dr. LEONARD B. RANSON Jr., dean of student affairs
at Mount Mercy College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa,
coached the women’s basketball team to second place
in the AIAW Division III national tournament. He
has coached the team since 1971 and is a nominee for
the Division III national coach of the year. The team
set a school record with 30 wins in a 30-7 season,
including a 21 game consecutive winning streak.
Ranson is also athletic director at Mount Mercy, a
Catholic college with 1,045 students.

1954

JUDGE RoBERT P. SMITH Jr. of the District Court of
Appeals in Tallahassee, Fla. , has recently been elected
chief judge of the court. He is also chairman-elect of

nine s.r... tiai‘(‘“O<RW........C. (SRS

 

 

 

 

the Florida Association of District Court of Appeals
Judges.

FRANK M. WHITING retired in February 1980 after
nine years as a judge at the Civil Aeronautics Board.
Since then he has been asked by the Department of
Justice to hear some cases involving Cubans detained
in the Atlanta, Ga.., penitentiary.

1955

Davip W. McCaw has been with Koger Properties
Inc., areal estate development firm, for 16 years. He
is now senior vice president of operations and resides
in Jacksonville, Fla.

1956

CHRISTOPHER MACILVAINE is owner of Carroll Travel
Service in Alameda, Calif.

J. ROBERT MCHENRY, after 25 years of coaching, is
now a manufacturer’s agent for a number of sporting
goods items. His territory is New England, eastern
New York, and northern New Jersey.

1957

LLoyD Dosyns, nationally known correspondent with
NBC, was the recipient of one of the Media Awards
for Economic Understanding, given by the Champion
International Corp. and administered by the Amos
Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth
College. Dobyns was awarded a second prize in the
category of television network and nationally distri-
buted programs. Following announcement of the
awards in New York City on May 19, it was an-
nounced that the program will henceforth be known
as the Champion Media Awards for Economic Un-
derstanding. After a year as a reporter for WDBJ-TV
in Roanoke, Dobyns entered the military service and
in 1960 joined WAVY-AM-TV, the NBC affiliate in
Norfolk where he was a reporter until 1963. In 1968,
he became managing editor of news for WNEW-TV
in New York and in December 1969 joined NBC
News. Most recently, Dobyns was correspondent,
along with David Brinkley, on the Christopher Award
winning NBC White Paper, ‘‘Gambling in America,”’
and was a writer and correspondent on the much
acclaimed NBC White Paper, ‘‘If Japan Can... .
Why Can’t We.”’ He covered the return of the Ameri-
can hostages to West Point this year and has reported
from 40 states and 31 foreign countries during the
course of his career.

JOHN D. Marsu has been named personnel manager
of the Datacrown Corp. in Silver Springs, Md. Data-
crown is the first U.S. facility of a major Canadian
data processing communications and service supplier
owned by Crown Life of Canada.

JOHN S. MorREMEN, vice president and formerly
associate general counsel and assistant secretary, has
been elected general counsel and corporate secretary
of Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. in Louisville, Ky.

1958

W. PHILIP LAUGHLIN has been transferred to Denver,

  

D. F. Cook, ’61

B. M. Shapiro, ’64

Colo., by Exxon Corp. where he is now project
manager of the Colony Shale Oil Project.

1959
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Josepu S. Lewis, a daughter,
Betsy, on Oct. 1, 1980. Lewis is vice president of
Southern West Virginia’s Businessman’s Full Gospel
Fellowship, International. The family lives in Fay-
etteville, W.Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD W. SIGMUND, ason,
Donald Wright Jr., on April 19, 1981. Sigmund is
associated with the Federated Life Insurance Agency,
Inc., of Washington, D.C., and the family lives in
Bethesda, Md.

LYMAN C. (Curis) HARRELL III has been named vice
president and chief administrative attorney for Mid-
South Title Insurance Corp. of Memphis, Tenn. Har-
rell has practiced law in Memphis since 1966 when he
completed service with the Navy. He has been with
the Memphis office of Chicago Title Insurance Co.
since 1973. Harrell is a member of the local, state and
American Bar Associations.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD has been promoted to full
professor of law and granted tenure at T. C. Williams
School of Law at the University of Richmond.

1960

WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER JR. has been named president
and chief executive officer of McConnell & Asso-
ciates, Inc., a Charlotte, N.C.-based advertising
agency. Loeffler joined the agency in 1974 and be-
came executive vice president in 1975. Before join-
ing McConnell, Loeffler was a vice president and
account supervisor with Cargill, Wilson & Acree,
Inc. , and was an advertising supervisor with General
Electric Co.

1961

ROBERT J. BERGHEL of Atlanta is chairman of the
American Bar Association’s committee on railway
and airline labor law.

Davib F. Cook has acquired the pool equipment
division of GC Products, Inc., a Fort Lauderdale
company. He has organized and formed his own GC
Pool Equipment Co., now headquartered in Long-
wood, Fla. Cook has been in the swimming pool
equipment business for more than 12 years in Cali-
fornia and Florida. He formerly held positions with
Arneson Pool Sweep and Swim-Rite.

JAMES K. RANDOLPH is the executive vice president
and counsel for the Goldman Companies, real estate
investors in suburban Chicago.

LYMAN C. (Curis) HARRELL III (See 1959.)

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD (See 1959.)

1963

JAMES K. RANDOLPH (See 1961.)

 

1964

MARRIAGE: Tain TomPKINS and Grace Miller on
Feb. 26, 1981, in Beirut.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH E. GREER, a son,
Kenneth E. Jr., on Sept. 11, 1980. Greer is a professor
at the University of Virginia Medical School.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. HOo.tis I. Moore, a son,
Michael H., on Feb. 10, 1981. The young man joins
an older brother. The family lives in Nashville, Tenn. ,
where Moore is an attorney.

Davip L. Grsson, formerly tax counsel for Crown
Zellerbach, is now director of government affairs. He
received his M.B.A. from Golden Gate University in
June 1980. He and his wife, Betty, and daughter,
Anne Hood, who was born in October 1980, live in
San Francisco.

Dr. THomas C. Lewis, formerly assistant professor
of medicine at the Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond, is now practicing internal medicine in
Lexington, Va.

Dr. BRUCE R. MAcDonaLp has become a Fellow of
the American College of Surgeons. He and his wife,
Dr. Estelle Goodell MacDonald, have a daughter,
Alexis, who is one year old. The family lives in
Copperstown, N.Y.

CONSIDER W. Ross, after six years in London, Eng-
land, with the Northern Trust Co. as vice president,
returned to Chicago in July 1981 to take a position in
the executive area of the company’s international
department. His specific duties include loan syndica-
tion, ship financing, and coordination with the Do-
mestic Special Industries Group.

_ BERNARD M. Suaprro, former chief of staff of the

Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress,
has joined the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse &
Co. as national director of tax policy. He will be
headquartered in the firm’s Washington, D.C.., office
of government services. Shapiro joined the staff of
the Joint Committee on Taxation in 1967 and became
its chief of staff in 1977. He is also an adjunct pro-
fessor in the graduate tax program at Georgetown
University Law School. He and his wife, Pat, and
their two children make their home in Potomac, Md.

BuRTON B. STANIAR is senior vice president for
marketing for Teleprompter Cable T.V. Corp. in
New York City. He and his wife, Vicki, and their two
sons live in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J.

PENNINGTON H. Way is now regional vice president
for Wausau International Underwriters, Inc., of New
York City. He lives in Darien, Conn.

J. BRUCE WHELIHAN is with the Washington, D.C..,
investment banking firm of Alex Brown & Sons.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. F. WiLLiaMs Ill, a daughter,
37

CLASS NOTES

Kathryn Stuart, on May 3, 1981. Williams, president
of Harrison & Bates, Inc., of Richmond, Va., was
named Realtor of the Year by the Richmond Board of
Realtors in ceremonies on April 20, 1981. A 10-year
veteran of the industry, Williams has been president
of the commercial real estate firm for over two years
and is a director of the Virginia Association of Real-
tors. Williams is also a trustee of the Historic Rich-
mond Foundation and chairman of its corporate giving
campaign.

JAMES M. Stay Jr. is president of the St. Michaels
Rotary Club, the planning and zoning commission,
and the historic district commission. He is an attorney
in Easton, Md., and lives in St. Michaels.

1966
On May 1, 1981, Gavin R. GaRRETT became a
consulting engineer with Cawley, Gillespie, and
Associates, petroleum consultants in Fort Worth. He
had been a reservoir engineer for Shell Oil Co. in
New Orleans.

MICHAEL T. GoopE has retired from full-time law
practice in Portsmouth, Va., to spend more time with
his two children and to stay active in civic and charit-
able work.

Dr. ANDERSON D. SMITH was appointed editor for
psychological sciences for the Journal of Gerontol-
ogy. He is an associate professor of psychology at
Georgia Tech.

1967
BIRTH: Rev. and Mrs. THomas J. HoLpeEN III, a
daughter, Katherine Ryland, on April 21, 1981, in
Berryville, Va. She has an older brother, Thomas
Carter, age 5.

EDWARD N. BEACHAM has been appointed assistant
director of development for publicity and publications
at the Darlington Schools in Rome, Ga.

Jay C. HENSLEY earned his M.S. degree in agricul-
tural economics at Missouri University and is em-
ployed as a trainee with Ralston Purina Co. in Spring-
field, Mo. Hensley and his wife, Barbara, have a son,
Jason.

H. Davis MAYFIELD III has been named a partner in
the Houston firm of Morris/Aubry Architects. He is
director of business development for the firm, which
he joined in 1979.

Chemical Bank has named RoBerT E. SADLER JR. a
senior vice president. He has world-wide respon-
sibility for Chemical Bank’s commodity and agri-
cultural business. Sadler and his wife, Alice, live in
Westport, Conn.

MARRIAGE: J. Oakey SEIBERT and Eva Lynne
Woolridge, on March 14, 1981, in Martinsburg,
W.Va. Seibert is a partner in the law firm of Rice,

38

H. D. Mayfield III, ’67

Hannis and Douglas and is city attorney for Martins-
burg.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JosePH G. SEAy, a son,
Benjamin Daniel, on Dec. 15, 1980, in Jacksonville,
Fla. Seay is with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.

JONATHAN E. ADAMS is a captain for Empire Airlines
in the Utica and Rome, N.Y.., areas.

Dr. PAuL C. ATWATER completed his residency
training in otolaryngology at Emory University on
July 1, 1981, and will open a private practice in
Atlanta on Aug. 1 at Piedmont Hospital.

EDWarbD L. Bisuop II is president of Wrightson,
Bishop and Co., Inc., financial management con-
sultants in New York. His firm is a leading specialist
in the employment of financial futures for fixed in-
come risk management. He is also a major and fighter
pilot for the Marine Corps Reserve. Bishop lives in
Flourtown, Pa.

In August 1980, Dr. Patrick B. CosTELLo joined
the faculty as an assistant professor in the rheumatol-
ogy department at the Medical School of the State
University of New York at Buffalo. He lives with his
wife, Anita, and daughters Kathleen Bannister, 2,
and Elizabeth Raines, 1, in Snyder, N.Y.

LiINwoop W. Davis is a contract specialist at the
headquarters of the Army Corps of Engineers Euro-
pean Division in Frankfurt, Germany.

ROBERT J. SMITH is acommercial casualty consultant
for Molton, Allan and Williams Insurance Corp. in
Birmingham. He moved there in February 1980 with
his wife, Nan, and daughters, Sharon, 7, and Chris-
tine, 3.

1969
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. J. GILLUM BurKE, a daughter,
Julie, on Feb. 6, 1981, in Mount Airy, N.C. Burke
passed the board examinations of the American
Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery in September
1980.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. REINHARD W. FISCHER, a
daughter, Allison Elizabeth, on Nov. 6, 1980, in
Phoenix. Fischer is associate general counsel for
Southwest Forest Industries.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip R. HACKETT, a daugh-
ter, Ashley Fox, on Sept. 27, 1980, in Lewes, Del.
Hackett is a partner in the Georgetown, Del., law
firm of Griffin and Hackett.

WILLIAM J. Cook is director of the Bureau of Tech-
nological Development for the Pennsylvania Depart-
ment of Commerce. Among his duties is the review
of proposed energy-related projects for state funding.
Cook, his wife, Thalia, and two children are moving
to Harrisburg.

Dr. MICHAEL W. Pustay is an associate professor of
management at Texas A&M University. He lives in

   

 

Bryan, Texas, with his wife, Zandra, and son, Scott.

MARRIAGE: G. RICHARD SINGELTARY and Tanina
Giarratana, on June 28, 1980. They live in Leesburg,
Fla., where Singeltary is an assistant state’s attorney.

MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL T. THORNTON and Nancy
Ginsberg on Oct. 19, 1980, in Atlanta. Thornton is
associated with the law firm of Hansell, Post, Brandon
and Dorsey.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. MARTIN Bass, ason, James
Thomas, on April 25, 1981. Bass, former assistant
alumni secretary at Washington and Lee, is now a
practicing attorney in Fredericksburg, Va. The new
son joins an older sister, Elizabeth, who is 4 years
old.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD C. DAUGHTREY, a
daughter, Erin Leah, on Feb. 26, 1981, in Roanoke.
Daughtrey is the Roanoke area representative for the
American Scientific Products Division of the Ameri-
can Hospital Supply Corp.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH L. HICKMAN, a
son, William Hamilton, on Jan. 4, 1981, in Birming-
ham.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. LAURENCE M. HILLIARD, a
daughter, Hope Elizabeth, on April 7, 1981, in Hat-
tiesburg, Miss.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce R. MACQUEEN, a
daughter, Allison Eliza, on Sept. 2, 1980, in Lancas-
ter, Pa. MacQueen is an assistant vice president of
Manufacturers’ Hanover Trust Co. in Seoul, Korea.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. James C. MCELROY, a son,
Thomas Hayden, on Jan. 5, 1981, in Atlanta. McElroy
is a senior portfolio manager for the investment coun-
seling division of the C&S trust department.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. MICHAEL R. MurpHy, a son,
Patrick Ryan, on Jan. 12, 1981, in Atlanta. He joinsa
4-year-old brother, Michael Brendan. Murphy is an
assistant professor of anesthesiology at Emory Uni-
versity Medical School and his wife, Christine, is an
assistant professor of radiology there.

RICHARD DEFRONZO is a tax partner at Alexander
Grant and Company. He lives in Woodland Hills,
Calif., with his wife and children, Matthew, 5, and
Jennifer, 3.

Davip R. KATz is the student film coordinator of the
recreational film program for the University of Wis-
consin at Madison. He has passed his preliminary
examination for his Ph.D. in film theory and is work-
ing on his dissertation at the university.

REV. LEE B. MADINGER was appointed pastor of the
First United Methodist Church in Greenwich, Conn.
on March 1, 1981. He was commissioned a lieutenant
(.g.) in the Chaplain Corps of the U.S. Navy Reserve
on Jan. 19, 1981, and was elected president of the

 

 

 

 

R. G. Brookby, ’72

New York conference chapter of the Order of St.
Luke in February.

MARTIN B. Turpin received his M.B.A. degree from
the University of Richmond on May 10, 1981. He
works for the A. H. Robins Co. in Richmond.

197]
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS H. ALPHIN Jr., a
son, Thomas Henry III, on Aug. 11, 1980, in Anna-
polis, Md. Alphin is a civilian attorney for the Army
and is chief of administrative law for the U.S. Army
Military District of Washington. He lives in Severna
Park, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. J. CONNOR SMITH, a son,
David Henson, on Oct. 3, 1980. They live in San
Leandro, Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLIFFORD L. WALTERS III, a
son, Logan Andrew, on Jan. 28, 1981, in Bradenton,
Fla.

GEorGE M. Foote Jr. has formed a new law partner-
ship, Jaffe, Squires and Foote, in Washington, D.C.

Dr. GAINES W. HAMMOND Jr. opened his own
urology practice in July 1981, in Spartanburg, S.C.
He lives there with his wife, June, son, Gaines III, 6,
and daughter, Sims, 3.

GENE A. WOOLARD has his own private law practice
in Norfolk. He is also president of the Old Dominion
University Alumni Association.

REINHARD W. FISCHER (See 1969.)
J. OAKLEY SEIBERT (See 1968.)

JAMES M. Stay Jr. (See 1965.)

1972

MARRIAGE: JOHN M. LanpiIs and Ruth White, on
June 14, 1980, in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. ROBSON, an
adopted son, Matthew Connolly, on Nov. 17, 1980.
Robson has been executive director of the Metropoli-
tan Section Professional Golfers Association for nine
years and assistant lacrosse coach at Nassau Com-
munity College for three years. They live in Stewart
Manor, N.Y.

ROBERT G. Brooxsy has been elected treasurer of
Butler Manufacturing Co. of Kansas City, Mo. Butler
manufactures and markets pre-engineered buildings
for non-residential use. Brookby had been working
for Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
NAG.

EDWARD G. Moore, director of alumni programs for
Southwestern University at Memphis, has been given
additional duties as director of church relations for

the college, which is affiliated with the Presbyterian
Church.

LLoyD S. WOLF is president of a chain of retail
cookie stores and practices law in Dallas.

1973
MARRIAGE: Timothy S. WriGut and Shirley Jean
Holland, on Aug. 23, 1980. A. Russell Kirk, ’73L,
was a guest at the wedding. They live in Chesapeake,
Va., where Wright is a partner in the law firm of
Basnight and Creekmore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. HAL CLARKE JR., a son,
Thomas Hal III, on April 4, 1981. The young man
joins an older sister, Jarratt, and the family lives in
Atlanta, Ga., where Clarke is a partner in the law firm
of Clarke, Pate, Anderson & Wimberly.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY M. DIAMOND, a
daughter, Brooke Kimberly, on Jan. 2, 1981, in
Longmeadow, Mass.

BIRTH: Lt. Cmpr. and Mrs. CLyDE M. HENKEL, a
daughter, Amanda Leigh, on Oct. 23, 1980, in Fort
Belvoir, Va. Henkel is assigned to the maritime and
international law division at U.S. Coast Guard Head-
quarters in Washington. He received a commendation
letter for his work in pollution enforcement from
1977 to 1980.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Scott E. RICKOFF, a son,
Matthew Todd, on Jan. 14, 1981, in Pensacola, Fla.
Rickoff is a podiatric surgeon.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. GREGORY W. SMITH, a son,
Douglas Ryan, on April 28, 1981, in Lynchburg, Va.
Smith practices law in Madison Heights.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Scott M. TurRNER, a son,
Robert Cunningham, in July 1980, in Churchville,
N.Y. In October, Turner became a partner in the law
firm of Nixon, Hargrave, Devans and Doyle. He and
his wife, Susan, have two other children, Katie, 6,
and Ben, 4.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. UPppiIkE Jr., an
adopted daughter, Maria McKay, on Oct. 15, 1980.
She joins an older sister, Abigail Anne, and brother,
John Conner III, at home in Babson Park, Fla.

JouN V. LitTLE has become a partner in the Char-
lottesville law firm of Michie, Hamlett, Donato and
Lowry.

ALAN PRATER is a sergeant in the Roanoke City
Police Department in the planning and analysis unit.
Prater had previous service with the department while
attending law school at Washington and Lee, where
he was an honors graduate. He obtained his law
degree and passed the bar in the spring of 1980. His
current responsibilities include keeping the line
officers and supervisors appraised of changes in sub-
stantive laws and statutes and up-to-date on recent
court opinions.

SID ROSEBERRY expects to receive his master’s degree
in soil fertility in December 1981. He intends to work
full time on his family farm in Paris, Ky. He is
married to the former Nancy Irene Edge.

Dr. Mark E. SKELLENGER completed his.residency
in vascular and general surgery at the Baylor College
of Medicine in Houston. He is now a staff surgeon at
Baylor participating in the training program. Other
residents at Baylor now include Phil Honig, ’72, John
Margolis, ’73, Wick Merchant, ’73, and Peter Jones,
"74.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN F. HANZEL, ason, John
Barclay, on March 2, 1981, in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip C. Lotts, a son,
David Matthew, on Jan. 28, 1981, in Christiansburg,
Va. Lotts is managing editor of the Blacksburg-
Christiansburg News Messenger. During his three
years in the position, Lotts has moved the News
Messenger from a tri-weekly to a daily newspaper.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. AMos A. WORKMAN, a son,
John Parks, on Feb. 20, 1981, in Spartanburg, S.C.
Workman is associated with the law firm of Butler,
Means, Evins and Browne.

VIRGIL O. BARNARD III is acting director of the
property valuation division and a member of the
research staff of the Kentucky Department of
Revenue. He makes revenue forecasts for the state’s
general fund accounts. Barnard lives on a farm outside
Frankfort with his wife, Tina, and 3-year-old daugh-
ter, Katy.

F. HARRISON EVATT is a sales representative for
Curran Associates, manufacturer’s representatives for
major fabric, lamp, and furniture firms. He travels
throughout North Carolina, Virginia, and West Vir-
ginia to call on furniture stores, interior designers,
and architects. Evatt lives in Greensboro, N.C.

M. CraiG GARNER Jr. became a partner in the
Columbia, S.C., law firm of McNair, Glenn, Kon-
duros, Corley, Singletary, Porter and Dibble.

JAMES A. HARTLEY is the town attorney for Pearis-
burg, Va., and a partner in the law firm of Martin,
Corboy and Hartley.

Davip L. Moore Jr. is the financial analyst in the
treasurer’s department of Alexander and Alexander,
Inc., in Towson, Md. He and his wife, Lanny, havea
2-year-old son, David III.

JOHN N. STACK Jr. works as a journalist and copy-
writer in the Baltimore-Washington area and has had
some of his fiction accepted for publication. He re- ©
ceived a master’s degree from Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. Stack and his wife, Carol, live in Baltimore.

MATTHEW Towns has been elected a vice president
of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.G:

39

 

- TWO IRON MEN

Washington and Lee can now claim two bona
fide Iron Men.

Bill Wildrick, ’67, and now of San Diego,
and Walter McManus SJr., 64, and now of Tow-
son, Md., both competed in the 4th annual Inter-
national Triathlon at Kailua-Kona, Hawaii in
February.

The Triathlon, more commonly known as
‘‘Iron Man Competition,’’ involves three com-
ponents: a 2.5-mile rough water swim, a 110-
mile bicycle race, and a 26.2 mile marathon run.

 

  

  

Iron Man Bill Wildrick, 67 (center).

Competing in an international field of more
than 300 contestants, Wildrick finished 26th
overall while McManus was 57th. Wildrick’s
overall time (the times of all three events combin-
ed) was 11 hours 19 minutes and 19 seconds;
McManus’ time was 12 hours three minutes and
56 seconds. The winning time, turned in by John
Howard of Austin, Tex., was nine hours 38 min-
utes and 30 seconds.

Wildrick was on the cross country, swimming
and track teams at W&L; McManus was on the
swimming and lacrosse teams.

 

 

WILLIAM P. WALLACE Jr. is associated with the
Roanoke law firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker
and Thornton.

THOMAS H. ALPHIN Jr. (See 1971.)

1975

MARRIAGE: CHar.es E. ALEXANDER and Marla
Sue Gabiner, on Dec. 28, 1980. Classmate Samuel
R. Lewis attended the ceremony. Alexander is an
associate in the Chicago law firm of Tishler and
Wald, Ltd.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN E. AREY, a son,
Jéffery Alan, on Jan. 30, 1981, in Tazewell, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXANDER H. MACKINTOSH,
a son, Alexander Huntley Jr., on Dec. 15, 1980.
Mackintosh is an accountant with Ernst and Whinney
in Winston-Salem, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH L. MINK JR., ason,
Charles Cooper, on July 12, 1980. They live in New
Carrollton, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW T. SMITH, a son,
Geoffrey Ryan, on Oct. 3, 1980, in Franklin, Tenn.

JOHN R. CLappP lives in Gaithersburg, Md., and is
associated with the Rockville law firm of Brown and
Sturm. He graduated from the University of Baltimore
law school in May 1979 and was a clerk for a judge on
the Eastern Shore for a year.

STEVEN L. DAUTERMAN is an administrative officer
in the probate group of the trust division of the Fifth
Third Bank in Cincinnati. He had been in the private
practice of law in Findlay, Ohio. He administers one-
third of the estates for which the bank serves as
executor. Dauterman is very active in community
theater. In the past year he has played roles in Gypsy,
The Music Man and Godspell.

JEFFREY L. WILLIS practices law with the Phoenix
firm of Streich, Lang, Weeks and Cardon.

VERNON F. OTTENRITTER JR. iS a dentist in Balti-
more.

WILLIAM L. WARREN Jr. will be an instructor in
Greek at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary
in Louisville. His duties begin in the fall of 1981 and
are in addition to his doctoral studies at the Seminary
on the New Testament.

1976
MARRIAGE: J. GREGORY MULDOON and Kappa
Clark, on Feb. 14, 1981. They live in Kensington,
Md. Muldoon is a regional market development and
government affairs manager for Browning-Ferris,
Inc., in Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT H. ANDERSON III, a
daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on March 4, 1981, in

40

Richmond. Anderson is employed in the criminal
division of the Virginia Attorney General’s Office.

This summer ROBERT L. AMSLER JR. will complete
his work for an M.A. degree in Spanish literature at
the University of Virginia. Amsler and his wife,
Julie, taught summer school at Woodberry Forest in
June and July.

PETER R. CAVALIER, formerly associated with Fidelity
Union Trust Co. of Newark, N.J., has joined Citicorp,
an affiliate of Citibank, as a commercial lending
account officer in its New Jersey regional office. He
is also pursuing an M.B.A. degree from Fairleigh-
Dickinson University.

Dr. Carey D. CHISHOLM completed his internship at
Madigan Army Medical Center in Tacoma, Wash.,
and is now in an emergency medicine specialty resi-
dency. Prior to his internship he successfully climbed
Mt. Rainier and Mt. Baker and is planning a trip on
the Salmon River.

Davin W. DENNy earned his M.A. degree in anthro-
pology from the University of Tennessee at Knox-
ville. He works for Piedmont Land and Exploration
Co., a firm interested in gold and other mineral ex-
ploration in the Piedmont section of the Carolinas and
Georgia. He lives in Albemarle, N.C.

JOHN R. HENZEL JR. is an internal auditor for the
University of Georgia. He and his wife, Judy, live in
Athens.

KENNETH G. MACDONALD Jr. was awarded his
Doctor of Medicine degree from West Virginia Uni-
versity in May. He is currently in an internal medicine
residency at the North Carolina Baptist Hospital,
Bowman Gray School of Medicine in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

MICHAEL J. McDoNouGH has resigned his position
at Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of
Chicago. He expects to receive his M.B.A. in finance
from New York University in June and will become a
stockbroker for Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co.
in New York.

Following graduation in May 1981 from the Univer-
sity of Virginia Medical School, THoMas A. MICKLER
will begin an internship in anesthesiology at Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston.

Tuomas P. O’DELL is senior vice president and gen-
eral counsel of Citizens Bank in Elizabethtown, Ky.
He has also been elected to the bank’s board of
directors.

North Carolina National Bank has appointed WILLIAM
H. OcBurn Jr. a corporate banking officer. He joined
NCNB Corp. in 1979 as a corporate planning analyst
and transferred to the United States division of North
Carolina National Bank in 1980. Ogburn earned the
M.B.A. from Vanderbilt University. He and his wife,
Libby, live in Charlotte.

PAUL K. STILLWAGON graduated in June from the

University of Virginia Medical School and is entering
a pediatric residency at the University of Alabama
Medical Center.

WILLARD C. THOMPSON III received his M.D. degree
on May 18 from Wake Forest University’s Bowman
Gray School of Medicine. He has been awarded a
house officer appointment for training in internal
medicine at Roanoke Memorial Hospital.

PEYTON A. Via works for Robo Autobath in Virginia
Beach and is also self-employed as a disc jockey,
playing for clubs, parties and dances. He plays club
lacrosse and basketball.

JAMES P. WATSON is a free-lance writer and pho-
tographer in Washington, D.C. He had been editor of
the Weekender, the Saturday edition of the Danville,
(Va.) Register.

Dr. RICHARD C. WISMAN is practicing emergency
medicine at West Virginia University Hospital in
Morgantown.

NAN ROBERTSON CLARKE (See 1973.)
T. HAL CLARKE JR. (See 1973.)
GREGORY W. SMITH (See 1973.)

CLIFFORD L. WALTERS III (See 1971.)

1977
MARRIAGE: SALVATORE J. ABBRUZZESE and Karen
Berrio on Oct. 4, 1980, in Bayshore, N.J. Rocky
Joyner, ’77, was an usher. Abbruzzese graduated
from Seton Hall Law School and was admitted to the
New Jersey Bar in 1980. He is an associate with a
firm in Morristown, N.J.

MARRIAGE: JAMES RODGERS BROOKS and Katherine
Louise Owens on March 14, 1981, in New Orleans.
Classmates attending the wedding were Frank C.
Brooks Jr., Joseph L. Carrere, Kim E. Sims and
Frank C. Brooks, ’46. The couple is residing in New
Orleans where Brooks is employed as an account
executive with the insurance firm of March and Mc-
Lennan, Inc., specializing in the oil and gas industry.

MARRIAGE: BRADLEY S. EL.ioTt and Judith Chris-
tine Kennedy, on Jan. 10, 1981, in Oklahoma City.
Classmates G. Scott Thomas and Douglass W. Dew-
ing attended. They live in Houston where Elliott is
editor of the Leader Newspapers weekly group. Prior
to leaving Lynchburg in December 1980, he won a
second place award in spot news reporting from the
Virginia Press Association for his work at The News.
Elliott’s first book, Good Vibrations: The Beach Boys
on Record, will be published in August by Pierian
Press of Ann Arbor, Mich.

MARRIAGE: W. RANDALL MANN and Anne Read
Baldwin, on July 19, 1980, in Dallas. A large number
of W&L alumni were members of the wedding party
or guests. Mann earned his M.B.A. degree in ac-

 

counting from the University of Florida. They live in
Jacksonville.

MARRIAGE: CLARK GLENN THOMPSON Jr. and Anne
Elaine Atmar on March 28, 1981, in Houston, Texas.
Among the wedding guests were Stephen Norris,
77, of Dallas, and Dries M. Van Wagenburg, ’77, of
Princess Anne, Md. After a wedding trip to the Cay-
man Islands, the couple will reside in Houston where
Thompson is affiliated with the law firm of Baker and
Botts.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY W. Morris, a son,
Brian Jeffrey, on April 24, 1981, in Atlanta. Morris
will begin teaching at the University of Dayton School
of Law in August.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEorGE R. SmITH III, a
daughter, Jessica Anne, on Jan. 15, 1981, in Radford,
Va. Smith is the administrator of Skyline Manor
Nursing Home, Inc., in Floyd, Va. They live in
Shawsville.

LANCE C. BRAMBECK was promoted in July 1980 to
acquisitions editor in biology by Academic Press,
Inc., in New York. He travels throughout Canada and
the United States seeking authors for undergraduate
biology textbooks.

BENJAMIN W. BROCKENBROUGH III has been pro-
moted to senior production manager-video for Thal-
himer Brothers, Inc., of Richmond. He is in charge of
videotape production and writing and directing train-
ing and promotional tapes. Several of his tapes have
been selected for merit and shown at national video
and retail conferences.

MICHAEL H. Crary is a graduate student working on
a master of medical science degree in anesthesiology
and life support systems at Emory University in At-
lanta.

WILLIAM H. CLEMONS buys and sells crude oil pro-
ducts for Texas Oil Traders in Houston.

Capt. WILLIAM J. CopLe III graduated with distinc-
tion from the Army Judge Advocate General’s School
at the University of Virginia. He is assigned to the
general counsel’s office of the Secretary of Defense
at the Pentagon. Cople is also enrolled in the graduate
law studies program at the Georgetown University
Law Center and will earn an LL.M. in international
law during his Pentagon tour.

ALLEN R. EMMERT III is a quality control inspector
for the eastern division cement operation of the Mar-
tin Marietta Corp. in Martinsburg, W.Va.

JAMES H. FISHER moved from New York to Chapel
Hill, N.C., in August 1980, to accept a position as
sales manager for the Pamlico Textile Co. of Sanford,
Nee

WILLIAM J. FLESHER is executive director of United
States Diving, the national governing body for com-
petitive diving in this country. As a staff member of

 

the 1980 U.S. Olympic Diving Team, he visited
Hong Kong, China and Japan in the summer of 1980.
Flesher lives in Indianapolis.

W. Scott FRANKLIN is in his first year at the Univer-
sity of Virginia’s Colgate Darden School of Business
Administration.

BRADLEY J. FRETZ will enroll in the summer at the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of
Business to study finance.

Gary K. HALey is a sales representative for Caskie
Paper Co. in Lynchburg, Va.

CralcG F. HAMILTON was promoted to bond officer of
the Florida National Bank of Jacksonville, in February
1981.

MICHAEL J. HIGHTOWER teaches history and coaches
soccer and tennis at Holland Hall School in Tulsa. He
and his wife have two daughters, Susan Barrett and
Ashley James.

JAMES G. HOUSTON was promoted to commercial
loan officer by the Flagship National Bank of Florida.
He is working on his M.B.A. in finance at Nova
University. Houston and his wife, Barbara, live in
Fort Lauderdale.

Gary H. Jongs is an industrial buyer for Toys-R-Us
in southern California.

LEON F. JOYNER is an actuary for the Martin E. Segal
Co. He and his wife, Ann, live in Marietta, Ga.

JAMES E. KOcH was recently promoted to captain by
the Army. He completed his tour of duty at Fort
Meade, Md., in June and reported to Korea for a one-
year assignment. He is tentatively scheduled to return
to Washington and Lee as an ROTC instructor in
August 1982.

Mark A. KRIEGER III is plant manager of the John D.
Lucas Printing Co. in Baltimore.

W. Dana LaFOorcGE is currently an assistant treasurer
for Bankers Trust Co. of New York in the eastern
financial institutions department. He is an account
officer for the bank’s correspondent banks and some
insurance companies in New England.

PAUL J. LARKIN is a clerk for the Chief Judge of the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louis-
iana in New Orleans. On Aug. 1, 1981, he will begin
a clerkship for the Hon. Robert A. Ainsworth Jr.,
Circuit Judge for the United States Court of Appeals
for the Sth Circuit in New Orleans.

BENJAMIN M. Lowe returned to Fort Bliss in June
after 18 months as a team commander with the 35th
Artillery Detachment in Germany. He hopes to receive
an appointment with the State Department when his
current duty expires.

ROBERT E. OTTENRITTER has completed his junior
year in medical school at Guadalajara, Mexico.

WILLIAM C. RoGeERs III is a clerk for Judge Marshall
A. Levin of the Supreme Court of Baltimore City. He
graduated near the top of his class from the University
of Maryland School of Law and was admitted to the
Maryland Bar in November 1980. Rogers was elected
to the Order of the Coif.

ROGER P. RYDELL has been named director of edi-
torial services for Trailways, Inc., in Dallas. He had
been manager of public affairs for the travel division
of American Express Co. Rydell and his wife, Kathy,
live in Dallas.

STUART W. SERENBETZ was transferred from Chicago
to the New York corporate headquarters of Turner
Construction Co. He works in planning and acquisi-
tions.

EARL W. (SANDY) STRADTMAN Jr. graduated from
Harvard Medical School in June 1981 and expects to
begin a residency in obstetrics-gynecology at the
hospital of the University of Alabama in Birmingham.
He recently had a vacation on the Caribbean island of
Aruba.

JaMes N. WOHLFARTH is vice president of the
Graduate Business Students Association at California
State University at Northridge where he is working
onan M.S. degree in management. Wohlfarth and his
wife live in Arleta, Calif.

STEPHEN C. YEVICH moved in April 1981 to Jeddah,
Saudi Arabia, where he is part of a consulting team
assisting Saudia Arabian Airlines Corp. ina year long
overhaul of all computerized financial and operations
information systems.

JAMES A. HARTLEY (See 1974.)

WILLIAM P. WALLACE JR. (See 1974.)

1978

MARRIAGE: Lt. KENNETH J. BEwIck and Elizabeth
Montgomery Johnstone on Nov. 29, 1980. The
wedding party included classmates Glenn Anthony
Miller, Arthur John May and Edwin Warfield Wright,
as well as Charles Lee Ginsburgh, ’77. They live in
Germany where Bewick is aide-de-camp to the assis-
tant commander of the 3rd Infantry Division.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD WiTT DUNCAN and Susan
Dorsett on Jan. 10, 1981, in San Antonio, Texas.
Among the wedding guests were his grandfather
Robert Richard Witt, ’13; best man, H. Bart Clark,
°78; and Todd Swann, ’74, cousin of the bride. Dun-
can is pursuing an M.B.A. at the University of Texas.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. W. Ray PRICE JR., a son,
William Joseph Dodds, on April 20, 1981, in Kansas
City, Mo. Price is an associate with the law firm of
Lathrop, Koontz, Righter, Clagett and Norquist.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MarK A. PUTNEY, a son,
Scott Alexander, on April 19, 1981. Putney is asso-

4]

CLASS NOTES

ciated with Alex Brown & Sons, a member of the
New York Stock Exchange, in Richmond, Va.

A. MICHAEL AIRHEART 1s working as a trainee in
commercial lending at First Tennessee Bank in
Memphis.

ALEXANDER H. BIsHopPp IV will teach in the lower
school and coach soccer and possibly lacrosse starting
in the fall of 1981 at the Gilman School in Baltimore.

CHARLES V. Brown III is an accountant for Coopers
and Lybrand in Baltimore. He also plays goalie for
the Mount Washington Lacrosse Club.

WILLIAM K. BURTON graduated from the Colgate
Darden Graduate School of Business Administration
at Virginia in May and began work in July with First
National Bank in Dallas.

BRIAN P. CARROLL works as a marketing representa-
tive for IBM on the American International Group
Account in New York.

GEORGE L. CARSON Jr. was promoted in October
1980 to commercial accounts representative for the
middle and southern Atlantic states for Walker
Manufacturing Co. He lives in Pine Hill, N.J.

WILLIAM A. CLEMENS is working in the management
information consulting division in the Washington,
D.C., office of Arthur Andersen and Co.

Lt. JOHN S. HUDSON is presently serving as chief,
G2 Intelligence/OPFOR Training Branch. He is re-
sponsible for all intelligence and opposing forces
training with the 24th Infantry Division.

D. MARSHALL JEMISON is a third-year medical student
at the University of Tennessee in Memphis.

PHILIP J. KAPLAN has been working for the mental
health law project in Washington since his return
from Oxford University. He plans to enroll in law
school in the fall.

HOWARD F. Knipp coached his first varsity wrestling
team at the Gilman School in Baltimore to an 11-1
dual meet record. He also teaches science in the
Middle School at Gilman.

On Jan. 1, 1981, ROBERT L. SULT JR. was promoted
to a banking officer by the First National Bank in
Dallas.

THOMAS W. Tit III has joined his father’s firm,
Atlanta Air Center, a real estate development firm
specializing in the Atlanta airport area. He had been
working for the National Bank of Georgia in Atlanta.

J. DORMAN WALKER JR. completes his army duty in
September 1981.

JOHN F. WHEATLEY is working for the Western
Company of North America, a Fort Worth-based oil
services firm. His first assignment was participation

42

in the firm’s management development program in
Denver. He received his M.B.A. degree from the
Babcock Graduate School of Management at Wake
Forest University in May: 1980.

MICHAEL T. THORNTON (See 1970.)

1979

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD MUSER, a son,
Richard Knight II, on May 1, 1980, in Ridgewood,
N.J. Muser is an associate with the law firm of
Clifton, Budd, Burke and De Maria in New York.
They live in Midland Park, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. PRICE, a daughter,
Elizabeth Barnum, on May 12, 1981, in Jamestown,
N.Y.

P. Davis Ayers III has been awarded a Fulbright
Scholarship to study at the University of Cologne in
1981-82. He is a candidate for a master’s degree in
comparative religion at Harvard Divinity School and
expects to return there after his studies in Germany to
work on his doctorate.

k

PALMER T. HEENAN JR. is attending the Detroit Col-

lege of Law while working part-time as a mortgage
analyst at Detroit Mortgage and Realty.

RICHARD M. Ross is a staff accountant for Coopers
and Lybrand in Baltimore.

KENNETH W. SLEDD JR. is working in Richmond as
an account manager for Graphic Management Con-
sultants, the management division of Arnold Graphic
Industries, Inc.

1980

ROBERT D. COLVIN is working as a management
trainee in sales for Executive Fund Life Insurance in
Houston.

RICHARD A. MAKEPEACE JR. is a securities analyst
for the Pershing Division of Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette, Inc., in New York City. He also pursues an
M.B.A. at New York University.

In December 1980, KEVIN J. Ross began work in the
appellate division of the district attorney’s office for
the Northern District in Cambridge, Mass.

ALAN PRATER (See 1973.)

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1913

EMMETT V. HARDWICK, an attorney in Dallas, Texas,
died Feb. 15, 1981. At one time Hardwick was chief
attorney for the Veterans Administration. He served
in World War I and World War II and retired from the
Army with the rank of lieutenant colonel.

1916

GEORGE D. SHORE Jr., a long-time attorney in
Sumpter, S.C., died in April 1981. Shore served with
the Navy during World War I.

1917

ALFRED TRACY LoyD, a retired lawyer and church
leader, died April 12, 1981, in Roanoke, Va. After
returning from service in World War I, Loyd entered
the practice of law with the firm of Caldwell, Chaney
and Loyd. He retired five years ago at the age of 83 as
senior partner in the firm of Loyd and Fralin. The
Virginia Bar Association made him an honorary life
member on the 50th anniversary of his practice. Loyd
was president of Home Building and Savings Asso-
ciation and he was the founder of Magic City Mort-
gage. He was a trustee of Montgomery Presbytery for
a number of years and was chosen as its moderator in
1969. Loyd was also a past president of the Roanoke
Retail Merchants and a member of the Knights of

Pythias.

1920

JOHN GLEN EVINS, vice president of the Lykes
Brothers Insurance Agency in Tampa, Fla., and four-
time president of the local chapter of the Florida
Association of Insurance Agents, died April 30, 1981.
Evins was also a past president of the Florida Asso-
ciation of Insurance Agents, the Lions Club, the Boys
Club of America, and the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, all in Tampa. He was class agent for the
Alumni Fund for many years. An outstanding swim-
mer on the Washington and Lee Swimming Team,
Evins continued to swim in national competition,
setting a new world record in 1973 in the 70-80 age
group, as well as a new national mark in the 200
meter free style. Until recently he swam several miles
every day.

1923

WILLIAM FREDERICK ENGLISH, a resident of Virginia
Beach and a retired manufacturer’s agent, died Jan.
27, 1981.

1924

DENNIS B. EDWARDS, a coal and fuel oil retail dealer
in Newport News, Va., died March 17, 1980. He was
chairman of the board of the Edwards Co., Inc.

Dr. WALTER L. SIMMONS JR., a former faculty senate

 

chairman and head of the English department at the
University of Rhode Island, died March 29, 1981. He
taught at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Harvard
University, Westminster College (Missouri), and
Kent State University. He joined the faculty at the
University of Rhode Island in 1946 and retired in
1968.

1926

FRED CRAMTON BEaR, president of Bear Brothers,
Inc., general contractors in Montgomery, Ala., died
March 6, 1981. Bear was chairman of the board of
trustees of the Presbyterian Home for Children for
nine years. He was also elected to the Montgomery
County Board of Education in 1960 and was chairman
of that board for 14 year. Bear was also a director of
the First Alabama Bank.

Dr. CORNELIUS VINCENT DEBIaSO, a 70-year resi-
dent of Rutherford, N.J., died March 29, 1981. He
received his medical degrees from the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons in Edinburgh, Scotland.
He had been associated with the Hackensack (N.J.)
Hospital for 45 years and was an instructor in anatomy
and physiology at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
DeBiaso was a veteran of World War II with the
medical corp and was in charge of a prisoner of war
camp in Africa for 37 months. In 1920 he and James
L. Farquhar were the U.S. doubles tennis champions.

THEODORE GLEN DOUGHERTY, a long-time employee
of the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. in Bracken-
ridge, Pa., died Sept. 18, 1980. In addition to his
work with the steel company, Dougherty was a
farmer. He resided in Freeport, Pa.

1329

ROBERT COLFAX LESTER, an attorney in Jacksonville,
Fla., died in April 1980.

1930

EDGAR I. BOSTWICK, an attorney in Richmond and a
former claims manager for Travelers Insurance Com-
panies, died April 4, 1981. Bostwick joined Travelers
in 1930 after graduating from Washington and Lee.
He also graduated from Donaldson School in Can-
tonsville, Md. He retired from Travelers in 1969 and
entered private law practice. He was a member of the
Virginia and the Richmond Bar Associations, the
Sons of the Revolution, and the Mayflower Society.

H. MARSHALL Homer, a former resident of Martins-
burg, W.Va., died in Wheeling on March 20, 1981.
Marshall practiced law in Martinsburg and was a
United States commissioner. He was a captain in the
Air Force during World War II and returned to Mar-
tinsburg as a federal probation officer, later transfer-
ring to Wheeling as chief federal probation officer for
the northern district of West Virginia. He was an
ardent golfer and a top-ranked tennis player.

193]

CMDR. KARL BRENEMAN, a public relations agent
with the Investigation Forum in California, died Jan.

 

 

1, 1981. Breneman was a long-time Navy officer and
served as a lieutenant aboard the U.S.S. Princeton,
which was sunk off of Luzon in October 1944. Later
he was with the ship service at Cabaniss Air Field in
Corpus Christi, Texas. Before retirement from the
Navy Breneman was a public relations officer.

je ey

CHARLES BANCROFT TAYLOR, a partner in Taylor-
Lowenstein & Co., a naval store and processing firm
in Mobile, Ala., died Feb. 21, 1981. He was an elder
in the Government Street Presbyterian Church.

1933

JOE FRANK BEAR SR., former member of the Board of
Directors of the Washington and Lee Alumni Asso-
ciation and president of Bear Lumber Co., Inc., in
Montgomery, Ala., died March 16, 1981. Bear was
an officer in the Navy in the Pacific theatre during
World War II. He was one of six brothers to attend
Washington and Lee and was a member of both Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Bear was an
outstanding civic and church leader. He was a former
president of the Greil Memorial Hospital.

WILSON SANDERS, a partner in the firm of Sanders,
McEwan, Mims & McDonald in Orlando, Fla., died
April 2, 1981. Sanders was admitted to the Florida

Bar in 1934. He was past president of the Orange
County Bar Association, and a past member and
chairman of the Florida Board of Bar Examiners.

1937

CHARLES MILTIN HECKER, a retired employee from
E. I. DuPont and Co., died in Camden, S.C., on May
6, 1980.

1938

PAUL LEROY HOLDEN Jr., for many years an execu-
tive, technical representative and sales engineer for
Lincoln Electric Co., died in October 1980. Holden
began with the company in 1945. Previously he had
been with the Morris Plan Bank in Cleveland and
with Price Waterhouse & Co. as a public accountant.
During World War II he served with the Army Air
Force. He retired from the Air Force Reserve as a
lieutenant colonel.

RAYMOND CHRISTIAN WHITE, former executive with
Mutual Savings & Life Insurance Co. in Decatur,
Ala., died Dec. 8, 1980. White had earlier been with
James Lees & Sons Carpet Co.

HOWARD Emory WILSON Jr., an attorney in Kings-
port, Tenn., died March 19, 1981. Except for his
military service during World War II, Wilson had
practiced law in Kingsport continually since his
graduation from Washington and Lee. He was former
city attorney for the city of Kingsport and was a
partner in the law firm of Wilson, Worley, Gamble
and Ward at the time of his death.

1939

ROBERT WALKER GUTHRIE, a former employee with
the Electric Steel Treating Co., of Bordentown, N.J.,
died Feb. 14, 1981. At the time of his death he was
living in Lyme, N.H.

194]

GEORGE WASHINGTON FAISON III, district sales
manager for Niro Atomizer, Inc., with offices in
Houston, Texas, died April 10, 1981. Faison worked
with the chemical, food and plastic industries along
the Gulf Coast from Texas to Florida. During World
War II he was with the Army Air Corp and in 1951
held the rank of captain with the Air Force. Before
joining Niro Atomizer Inc. Faison had been associated
with Ingersall Rand Co. and with SCM, Proctor &
Schwartz, Inc., Division.

CLARKE CLAYTON FOSTER, a retired lieutenant
colonel of the Air Force, died Oct. 30, 1980. Final
interment with full military honors was at the Wil-
lamette National Cemetery in Portland, Ore. Foster
was a former auditor with the State Accident Insurance
Federation.

1942

Dr. JAMES H. Davipson, a physician in Durham,
N.C., died Aug. 23, 1980. He practiced internal

43

IN MEMORIAM

medicine in Durham for over 30 years.

WILLIAM FRANCIS MOFFETT JR., a judge and former
mayor of Washington, Va., and a former Juvenile
and Domestic Relations Court judge, died May 2,
1981. Moffett was appointed commonwealth’s attor-
ney for Rappahannock County in 1953 and became
substitute judge for Rappahannock County in 1963.
In 1963 he was appointed judge of the Rappahannock
County Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court, and
in 1973 became judge of the Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court for the 20th Judicial District in Vir-
ginia. He occupied this post until his retirement in
1980.

RICHARD BUCKNER SPINDLE III, senior partner in the
Norfolk law firm of Willcox, Savage, Lawrence,
Dickson & Spindle, died April 28, 1981. Spindle was
admitted to the bar in 1947 after his graduation from
Washington and Lee University, where he was se-
lected to Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa
and received the Order of the Coif. He headed the
section on estates and property of the Virginia State
Bar and was secretary of the Bar’s section on taxation.
Spindle was a fellow in the American College of
Probate Counsel and the American Bar Foundation.
He was an avid horseman throughout his life and a
tournament tennis player. At one time he was master
of Fox Hounds for the Old Dominion Hounds, where
he also served as a trustee. Spindle was a patron of the
arts and a former president of the Norfolk Symphony
Association and the Norfolk Forum. He was a director
of the Royster Co., and Hermitage Foundation
Museum, the board of directors of the Piedmont
Environmental Council, Norfolk Tennis Patrons, and
several other clubs.

1943

WILLIAM HENRY ARMSTRONG, a founder and director
of research of the Jennison Associates Capital Corp.,
an investment management concern in New York
City, died May 7, 1981. Before helping to establish
the corporation in 1969, Armstrong was the senior
vice president and director of research for Laird Inc.,
an institutional brokerage concern. He had also been
a vice president and director of research at Waddell &
Reed, a management company. After leaving W&L,
Armstrong graduated with distinction from Harvard
Business School. Armstrong served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II. He was a resident of Greenwich,
Conn.

1946

HEDLEY ARTHUR CLARK Jr., former vice president
of Charles H. Steffey Insurance Corp. in Baltimore,
died April 30, 1981. He retired a year ago as the
operating head of the insurance subsidiary of the real
estate firm that also bears the Steffey name. In 1963,
Clark started a men’s clothing store, James Brentley
Clothiers, which he closed in 1978 when he became
ill. After service in World War II, he attended Johns
Hopkins University and was captain of its cham-
pionship lacrosse team.

JAMES COULBOURN HOLLORAN JR., an attorney in

44

Sturgis, Ky., died April 25, 1981. Holloran was
Commonwealth’s Attorney for the Sth Judicial Dis-
trict, which covers Union, Crittenden, and Webster
counties in western Kentucky. He was elected Com-
monwealth’s Attorney in 1971. Holloran also served
in the Kentucky House of Representatives from 1960
to 1962. He was a veteran of World War II.

1949

RONALD ALFRED SHERWOOD, an employee of 25
years and a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank
in New York City, died March 31, 1981. Sherwood
served with the infantry during World War II and
received four Battle Stars in the campaigns in Italy
and Africa. He lived in Wayne, N.J., where he was
president of the Wayne Township Council

1954

WILLIAM STONE LUCKETT, a Vice president of Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co. of New York City and a 17-year
resident of Larchmont, N.Y., died April 12, 1981.
He had been an assistant vice president of the First
National City Bank, which is now Citibank. Luckett
was a lieutenant in the Navy and served on a destroyer

 

THOMAS CARLYLE WILSON JR.

Thomas Carlyle Wilson Jr., who held three ad-
ministrative posts at the University during the
postwar years, 1941-51, died in Columbus, Ohio,
on April 28 after a brief illness. He graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1943, summa cum
laude, Phi Beta Kappa, and was president of Beta
Theta Pi fraternity. After Army service, he re-
turned to W&L as assistant to Dean of Students
Frank J. Gilliam. He was also director of place-
ment and director of fraternity services during the
postwar adjustment period when enrollment
reached record levels with the influx of returning
servicemen. He also compiled and edited the first
comprehensive alumni directory, published during
the University’s bicentennial in 1949. After leav-
ing Lexington in 1951, he engaged in a successful
business career in Washington, Columbus, and
Evansville, Ind. He is survived by his wife,
Nancy; ason, Thomas C. Wilson III of Columbus;
a daughter, Mrs. Michael Suthard of Eau Clair,
Wis.; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Wilson
Sr., of Columbus; a brother, James G. Wilson of
Columbus; and two grandchildren. A. Lea Booth,
40, who worked with Wilson at the University,
wrote of him: ‘‘Lexington was as exciting as it
was charming during the postwar recovery period,
and Tommy and Nancy Wilson made memorable
contributions to campus and community life dur-
ing that challenging era. A consummate sports-
man, avid golfer, and enthusiastic supporter of
the Generals, Tom Wilson merited and enjoyed
the affection and admiration of his fellow admini-
strative officers, the faculty, coaching staffs, and,
most of all, the students with whom his staff
positions brought him into daily contact as coun-
selor and advocate. Tom Wilson was a W&L
gentleman to the marrow.”’

 

 

 

escort. An active yachtsman, he became a flag officer
of the Larchmont Yacht Club in 1972, advanced to
commodore in 1976, and was named treasurer in
1979.

1955

JoHN Moore Faison, of Clearwater, Fla., and a
former Lexington, Va., resident, died April 25, 1981.
An attorney, he was associated with the law firm of
Phillips, McFarland, Gould, Wilhelm and Wagstaff.
Faison was a former vice president and trust officer
with the City National Bank & Trust Co. in Clear-
water. He was a member of the finance committee of
Morton F. Plant Hospital Foundation, treasurer of the
Upper Pinellas Red Cross Chapter, and treasurer and
board member of Religious Community Services. He
was also a guest columnist for the Clearwater Times
and the Largo Seminole Times.

1958

WILLIAM B. WIspoM Jr., a New Orleans business
and social leader, died May 26, 1981. He was presi-
dent of the Boston Company of New Orleans, Inc.,
an investment counseling firm. He was a founder of
Dahlberg, Kelly & Wisdom, which later became
Wisdom, Kelly & Colon, Inc., and in 1973 became a
subsidiary of the First Boston Company, Inc., of
Boston, Mass., a nationwide investment counseling
firm. Wisdom was an investment counselor as well as
a successful investor for his own interests. He was
chairman of the executive committee of the board of
directors of the First National Bank of Commerce of
New Orleans, the state’s second-largest bank. Wisdom
was also a director of First Commerce Corp., the
bank’s parent company. He was a member of the
boards of directors of other businesses, including the
Rathborne Land and Lumber Co., based in Harvey,
La., and the Stamount Co. and Friendly Center, Inc.,
both real-estate companies in Greensboro, N.C. He
had been a vice president and director of General
Enterprises, Inc. He was also the managing partner of
Tidewater Enterprises, a real-estate investment com-
pany in New Orleans. In civic affairs, Wisdom was a
trustee of the Alton Ochsner Medical Foundation and
of the Rosamary Foundation. He was a member of the
boards of the Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital, St. Martin’s
Protestant Episcopal School, and the Louisiana Nature
Center and International House. Wisdom was a
member of the Boston Club, the Louisiana Club, the
New Orleans Country Club, the New Orleans Lawn
Tennis Club and several carnival organizations.

1963

Guy CAMPBELL JrR., president and owner of the Motor
Supply Warehouse, Inc., of Monroe, La., died Dec.
3, 1980. He was a director of the Central Bank.

1980

CARLTON DAVIES (BUBBA) WALKER of Charleston,
S.C., died after an accident on April 5, 1981. The
accident occurred while Walker was riding in the
back of a pickup truck. He was employed by Joseph
Shisko Painting Contractors.

 

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Presents...

  
        
  
   
  
 

August 19-26, 1981
Dulles Departure

es X eZ YOO Wa
ss ae se : 2s ps mee ; LG
FOR ONLY... “22> 2B. wees i: Se

— Se : 2 : es
$599.00 i Om 7 a coe iby ie 7 foe ve Sree ze

_> _ = : 3 fo p : A J ra a rs s
Per person-double occupancy OE =m te 35) :

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES:

O Round trip jet transportation to Idaho Falls, Idaho via United Airlines’ DC-8 aircraft (meals and he ah
beverages served aloft). . Deluxe accommodations for four nights in Sun Valley, Idaho at the mag- ;

nificent Sun Valley Resort Lodge andInn.* © Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring
white water rafting and trout fries. _( Deluxe motorcoach transfer from Sun Valley to West Yellow- For further information and
stone, Montana via the Craters of the Moon National Park. (1 Charming westem accommodations reservation coupon, contact:
in West Yellowstone for three nights.* [1 Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring Yellow- W.C. Washburn Washin ton
stone National Park. () All gratuities for bell men and chambermaids. 0 All round trip transfers and vie : a g :
luggage handling from airport to hotels. 0) Pre-registration at hotels. Arthurs Travel’s Sun Valley/ and Lee University Alumni,
Yellowstone National Park Travel Tips. 0 Free time to pursue your own interests. No regimentation. Inc. Lexington, Virginia

CL) Experienced tour directors and hotel hospitality desks, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site team of 24450 PHONE:(703) 463-9111
pr ofessionals. “Some trips will be four nights Yellowstone National Park/three nights Sun Valley. EXTENSI ON 21 4

  

 
 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Presents...

  

October 19-November 5, 1981 ye«<-> ~
Dulles Departure

FOR ONLY...

$2995.00

Per person-double occupancy

   
     

Ly My 1/, Ts ‘ .
ay wl m cy

ee I ag . ~— “ig 7 a

i Rr,
|

— hee
I

 

    

   
   

27
Ze soe

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES:

* Round trip jet transportation to China and the Orient via Phillipine oer Airlines.  * ‘Deluxe |

accommodations for three nights at the Manila Plaza Hotel, Manila, Philippines. * FullAmericanbreak- For further information

fast daily in Manila. * Gala Folkloristic Welcome Dinner. * Exciting low-cost optional tours available in and reservation coupon,
Manila. * Airtransportation from Manila, Philippines to Peking, People’s Republic of China. * Ten contact: W.C. Wash burn,
nights in the People’s Republic of China. —* Hotel accommodations in China featuring private bathand Washi ngton and Lee
standard hotel amenities. * Three meals dailyin China. * Also including exciting excursions featuring University Alumni, Inc.

a full day to the Great Wall and Ming Tombs and Hangzhou lake ride.* Air transportation from Hangzhou Lexington, Virginia 24450
to Hong Kong, British Crown Colony. »* Deluxe accommodations for two nights at the Mandarin Hotel, pH ONE: (703) 463-9111

Hong Kong. * Full American breakfast daily in Hong Kong. * Exciting low-cost optional tours available EXTENSION 214
in Hong Kong. * And much more!

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of i a : a2zee pond Sass Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVE1??24* gton, Virg

! ONDOWH: | id Additional Mailing Offices
Caron oe Hy mnowats
Lexington, Virginia 24450 a Se |

  

LAST CALL

EXPERIENCE CHINA

16 DAYS

 

Yo

   

WHOLE TOUR IS
LEAVING PERSONALLY
SEPT. 19, 1981 ESCORTED BY

$9775 pikes SID KAPLAN, W&L
siete CLASS OF 1956.
SEATTLE DEPARTURE

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc. days in Hong Kong to 11 stimulating days
presents (for members and their immediate from Peking to Hangkow to Soochow to
families) an unforgetable tour. . .Hong Kong and The - Shanghai. . .English speaking guides, all meals in China,

People’s Republic of China. . .16 days of history and deluxe hotel in Hong Kong and the best available in
culture await you. . from the moment your Northwest China. All sightseeing is included in the price. Limited to
Airlines 747 leaves Seattle (West coast departure takes 30 people. The China Experience, one never to be
advantage of Group Savings) and wings to three forgotten.

FOR FREE DETAILED BROCHURE, CALL OR WRITE: SID KAPLAN, PRES., LAND SEA AIR TRAVEL

 

 

 

1228 EUCLID AVENUE ¢ CLEVELAND, OHIO 44115 OR PHONE (216)621-7910

 

 

Wedgwood plates in sets of four different scenes:

 

WASHINGTON Lee Chapel; Washington College (1857); Lee-Jack-
AND son House; Washington College (contemporary).
LEE Available in blue only. ,
| Price: $100.00 including shipping charges.
COMMEMORATIVE Send order and check to
PLATES Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.
7 Lexington, Virginia 24450
i

 

 

