the alumni magazine of washington and lee university 2 wry i983 |

&

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 58, Number 4, July 1983

Frank A. Parsons, 754 2.0.0... .... ccc cece cece ceeeeeneeeeeeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ................ ccc cee ee eee eee Associate Editor
Robert Fure ............... cc cece eee eeeeeeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter ....... 0.0 c cece ccc eee e ee ee ees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 .................ce eee e eee ees Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Inauguration of John Wilson .....................eeee eee 1
Combatting Murphy’s Law .....................eeeeeeeees 6
Notes of. a W&L Watcher ..:............. 05. cccccee eens 7
Biomedical Ethics Program IX .....................00006 9
Rosser: Oscar Winner ........2.......36...005: 12
Commencement Firsts :..............<..00cecneerecusss eee 14
Graduating Sons and Daughters ...................000006- 18
WRGRUINIONS 783) ooo oo so coe ees cee os Gon cnn ee 19
Sessoms Is Alumni Director ....................2eeeee eee yas
Thank You, Ball and Libby ...........:--3). te 23
Wilson’s Remarks to Alummi ....................0--+000: 24
WEL Gagne oe 27
Spring Sports Roundup ...................ceseeeeeeeeeeeees 36
Chapter NEWS 3.00.7 no 38
Class Notes 62.00. 42
In Memoriam (600.000 ie ee 48

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., 56, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 750, Baltimore, Md.
OwEN H. HARPER, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
HENRY NOTTBERG III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyYNoR, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rice M. TILLey JR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TURK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, IIl.

CVS

v

ON THE COVER: Led by University Marshal Westbrook Bar-
ritt, the academic procession for the inauguration of Washing-
ton and Lee President John D. Wilson approaches the center of
the basketball court of Warner Center. President Wilson (right)
and Rector James M. Ballengee are immediately behind Barritt
in the procession. Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

 

a
FI
ie

 

 

‘I Do Solemnly Swear . . .

 

Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson (second from left) receives standing ovation after being sworn in by Rector James M. Ballengee (third from left).

9’

The Inauguration Of President John Delane Wilson Brightens A Rainy Day

by Jeffery Hanna

There was pomp and circumstance. There were balloons and
there was champagne. There were colorful academic gowns and
there were equally colorful (if thoroughly sopping) umbrellas. There
were moments of laughter and moments of reflection. There were
eloquent words about pride in the past and about challenges for the
future.

But it all came down to those 16 seconds when John Delane
Wilson recited a historic 46-word statement:

‘I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties
of the office to which I have been appointed by the Board of Trustees
of Washington and Lee University to the best of my skill and
Judgment without fear or favor. So help me God.’’

Those words were followed by these from James M. Ballengee,
Rector of the Board of Trustees:

By virtue of the authority vested by the Commonwealth of
Virginia in the trustees of Washington and Lee University, I now
designate you and declare you President of this University.”’

And so it was that at 3:33 p.m. on May 19, 1983, John D.
Wilson was officially installed as Washington and Lee University’s
21st president.

The oath taken, President Wilson stepped forward to the

microphone and the 1,400 or so in attendance in the Warner Center,
already on their feet, remained standing to greet the new president
with warm, heartfelt applause which echoed through the
gymnasium.

Forgotten for the time being was the dreadful weather—rainy
and windy and unseasonably cold—which had forced the ceremony
indoors and resulted in some hectic, ulcer-inducing moments for
those charged with the task of rearranging the site from in front of
Lee Chapel to the Warner Center literally in a matter of minutes.

Wilson helped everyone forget the dreary day and disappointing
circumstances by asking them to summon forth their imaginations,
to ‘‘imagine behind me the marvelous shape and form of the Lee
Chapel and I, in turn, will look out and suppose that we are looking
up from the stage upon the Colonnade that so graces this marvelous
place.’’

It worked. Not even a weak cold front passing over the Great
Valley of Virginia could dampen the soaring spirits of this day.

To the contrary, some might even have taken the weather for an
omen, a good one at that. After all, it had rained the last time
Washington and Lee inaugurated a president. That was in
September of 1968 when heavier rains than on this May day had

Inauguration Day

 

Thomas A. Bartlett presents the inaugural address.

 

Rector James M. Ballengee (right) administers oath to Wilson.

forced the ceremonies for Robert E. R. Huntley inside. There was a
difference, of course. The Huntley inauguration was shifted to the
cramped, by comparison at least, quarters of Doremus Gymnasium.
That ihe Warner Center was available was thanks to the remarkably
successful development program accomplished during Huntley’s
presidency.

Maybe rainy inaugurations beget successful presidencies at
Washington and Lee. The logic may be a bit suspect, but who’s to
argue with tradition?

To be sure, John D. Wilson was by now no stranger to the
University. Elected eight months earlier and on the campus since
January, he was perfectly at home. And everyone in the University
community could readily agree with the assessment of the inaugural
speaker, Thomas A. Bartlett, chancellor of the University of
Alabama System, who told the assemblage:

‘You are inaugurating one of the most admired and respected
people in American higher education. I have known John Wilson
for many years. I know of some other institutions that have wooed
him and lost, some of the most important of our great universities.
John Wilson is one of those rare individuals who has charted his

z

 

President Wilson responds to his inauguration.

course by reflecting on his own tastes and values, on his own under-
standing of himself, and not on fashion or public symbols. He has a
special combination of modesty and courage held in balance by a
strong and refined intelligence. And with it all, as you have
discovered already I am sure, he is an engaging and warm
companion—though an indifferent tennis player.’’

Added Bartlett: ‘‘In John Wilson, you have selected for your
leader an ideal combination of intelligence, refinement, energy, and
experience. You have the right president; now you of W&L must
support him, nourish him, and communicate with him. And if that
begins to sound a little like a marriage ceremony, so be it. The
relationship between president and university community is just
such a multi-faceted, organic, and subtle relationship. The
presidency is a way of life and not an employment contract.”’

The festivities had actually begun on the inauguration eve with a
special Lee Chapel concert by the Glee Club and the Brass and
Percussion Ensemble.

Then, on Thursday afternoon, the invited guests began arriving
shortly after noon for a luncheon which also had to be rearranged
because of the elements. Though it was held in the Evans Hall, the
W&L Food Service still offered a picnic bill of fare, serving up

 

 

1,607 chicken legs, 1,390 pickled eggs, and other victuals, some
countable, some not.

Forty-five minutes before the scheduled 3 p.m. ceremony, the
audience had already begun filling the folding chairs on the
gymnasium floor and were even spilling over onto the bleachers.
Meantime, the academic procession was taking shape one floor
below in—fittingly—the dressing room area of Warner Center.

The colorful procession, entering the arena through the same
doors used by the Generals’ basketball teams but at a less athletic
pace, included all the members of the Board of Trustees plus 14
Trustees Emeriti. Delegates representing 46 colleges and
universities, including many presidents, and eight learned societies
and educational organizations marched in the procession as did a
delegation of 29 students representing all aspects of campus life and
a delegation of 26 alumni.

While the ceremony was long on pageantry and symbols, the
program was not without substance in the forms of Bartlett’s
address and Wilson’s response.

Bartlett, for instance, challenged Washington and Lee ‘‘to be
itself, to seek its own educational values more uncompromisingly,
to be restless in search of greater results for its efforts.’’

The Wilson family: (from right) Mrs. Anne Wilson; Patrick, 19; Sara, 15; Anthony, 21; and, Stephen, 23.

 

Formerly the president of Colgate University where he came to
know the president of nearby Wells College, one John D. Wilson,
Bartlett spoke of the challenges for education in a time of change.

Because the United States is now, more than ever, part of a
global economy, Bartlett said, it is imperative that universities help
society in the ‘‘search for values and practices which will dampen
confrontation and emphasize sharing and efficiency.”’

‘‘Our students must know that to be ignorant in languages and
unaware of other cultures is to be unequipped and vulnerable in our
dealing with people from other lands who, you may be sure, do
take the trouble to study us and our language.

‘*They must also prepare for a society that works together
efficiently. The alternative is that the next generation will be the
first generation to be worse off than their parents. We don’t want to
make history in that way.”’

Education in this time of change, Bartlett added, should make
people “‘more adaptable, more able to learn and adjust and relearn
continually as changes come in technology and in organizations and
in Our expectations.”’

The curriculum necessary to produce the talents which will, in
turn, promote such adaptability are ‘‘reading, writing, quantitative

3

Inauguration Day

 

cs

Pre-inauguration luncheon in Evans Hall

“ SS

Marshal Westbrook Barritt (left) and Professor Russell Knudson confer.

techniques and reasoning, history to give relationships in time,
basic science as a foundation for coping with technology,
languages, and esthetics,’’ said Bartlett.

The challenge, he added, ‘‘is to focus on traditional
fundamental learning and do it better.”’

Bartlett concluded his remarks by wishing for his old friend,
W&L’s new president, ‘‘larger endowments, productive and
supportive faculty, industrious and able students, vigorous
administrators, selfless trustees, winning teams, and dedicated
alumni. May you make no false steps in the mine fields of
university politics, or be mugged in the by-ways of the media. But
if by mischance our wishes for you should fall short, why then we
wish you good luck, a good temper, brilliance in debate, patience,
and a thick skin.”’

In his response President Wilson referred to Washington and Lee
as a place where the priorities are in the right order.

“It is,’’ he said, ‘‘a place still possible in which to talk of ideals
and of courtesy and civility and even to practice those things. The
idea of the gentleman scholar isn’t entirely dead here. We speak of
it. We speak of responsible and effective and ethical uses of
knowledge without embarrassment or without cynicism. It is a place
in which students willingly assume serious responsibilities of self-

4

 

 

F aculty members watch the proceedings.

 

Trustees (from left) Jack Warner, John Stemmons (emeritus), Frank Young,
and Thomas Touchton at inauguration.

government and thus foster in themselves a sense of real
participation in maintaining and improving the standards we must
live by. The Honor System here is not an empty institution.

“It is a lively and important institution and students carry the
great burden of disciplining each other to the standards and the
conduct that we expect of scholars and gentlemen. It is a place in
which the Greek notion of intellectual play is happily taken up, to
be sure, between our more ponderous moments. . .”’

While noting that Gen. Robert E. Lee’s commitment to a
balance between ‘‘liberal and professional study’’ is still alive,
Wilson added that the University is not and does not wish to
become ‘‘a highly polished, stainless-steel model of cost efficiency
designed chiefly to train persons for pre-defined places in the
occupational complex of what is often called ‘the real world.’ ”’

Instead, Wilson argued that the University can start—‘‘and it
will only be a start’’—a process ‘‘that will insure that those who
live and work here develop a tolerance for ambiguity. It can settle
for something short of zealous certainties.’’

The University, Wilson continued, should be a place that can
‘“convey implicitly the deep value of vicarious experience. . . . It
will help students begin the lifelong task of understanding the
cultural envelope in which they live and breathe and through the

 

 

The centerpiece for the Doremus Gymnasium reception

openings of which they invariably look out upon the larger world of
human experience. A place that will help to sharpen their moral
vision so that they will one day stop asking what is wrong with
Hamlet and will ask instead what is wrong with the Denmark it is
Hamlet’s misfortune to live in.

‘*It will help them to master the languages they will need to
apprehend reality, the language of science and mathematics, the
language of poetry, the language of music, the special languages of
the visual arts. It will help them develop an acute sensory apparatus
that detects unfailingly when euphemism is employed in the cause
of deceit or wickedness or for glossing over the truth of things. . .
A place that will not settle for linguistic literacy alone . . . but
cultural literacy as well, for without cultural literacy we cannot
communicate beyond the simple notices of everyday life.’’

Wilson concluded by observing that the faculty and the students
of Washington and Lee ‘‘have . . . created a place with room in it
for idiosyncrasy, for delight in odd ideas, as well as for hard
intellectual work. There is room here for curiosity to roam in, for
Strange juxtapositions of seemingly disparate things, for
contemplative moments, for the unrequired book or the unassigned
symphony. And there is, apparently, room for me and for my
family as well.

a ee

 

 

The Wilsons greet visitors in the reception line.

 

The day ends with balloons and a broad smile.

‘‘T am glad and I am grateful for that and consequently I pledge
to you all that I will do everything in my power to serve this
University well and faithfully and in the small ways open to me will
try though I know I cannot possibly do it, but will try to repay you
for your confidence and your bountiful kindness. ”’

Following the new president’s remarks and after the Glee Club
and Brass Ensemble’s presentation of Ralph Vaughan Williams’ O
How Amiable, and following an impromptu and somewhat
confusing recessional, the guests moved into the Doremus
Gymnasium for champagne and cider, cakes and ice cream, and a
chance to welcome the new president personally.

With his wife, Anne, at his side, Wilson greeted the guests for
nearly an hour and a half. Once the last hand was shaken, the last
congratulatory words accepted, he prepared to leave for the Lee
House in order to get ready for another round of congratulations at
the Lee Associates banquet that evening.

As he headed for the door, someone handed Wilson a bunch of
the blue-and-white helium-filled balloons as a keepsake. With the
balloons in hand, Washington and Lee’s 21st president walked out
into the still gray day.

The balloons seemed brighter than ever against the dark, cloudy
skies. But the rain had stopped.

 

 

Combatting Murphy’ s Law

W&L’s Quick-Change Artists Save The Day

For weeks Westbrook Barritt had fretted about the weather. As
it turned out, he had good reason to fret.

Barritt, professor of Romance Languages at Washington and
Lee, is the University Marshal and chairman of the public functions
committee. He was also the chairman of the committee that planned
the inauguration of John D. Wilson.

In the weeks and days before the inauguration, Barritt had
plenty of things about which he could worry. Invariably, the
weather was at the top of his list of potential headaches.

He knew two things could spoil the proceedings: rain or too
much sun.

‘‘Since we were going to be in front of Lee Chapel in an
unshaded area, I was concerned that it might just be too hot in the
middle of the afternoon,’’ Barritt confided.

It was not too hot on May 19. But rain, it did.

Instead of cursing the fates or Murphy’s Law, Barritt—and
everyone else who had something to do with the planning—simply
made do.

The rain did not actually begin to fall until 10 o’clock on

Thursday morning. By then, the buildings and grounds crew had

already erected the stage in front of Lee Chapel.

An hour later it was raining harder. The picnic lunch, planned
for the shade of the Lee House lawn, was hurriedly moved into
Evans Hall where the Food Service Staff under the direction of
Jerry Darrell pulled off one of its ordinary miracles by feeding
about 1,200 guests in an hour. Almost every room in Evans Hall
was occupied for the luncheon. |

At 11:15 a.m. Jim Arthur, superintendent of buildings and
grounds, was appraising the steady downpour from a vantage point
on the Colonnade. He made a decision at that point to begin pre-
paring the Warner Center as an alternative site.

Within minutes the clattering of chairs being unfolded filled the
gymnasium and, from out of nowhere, a stage appeared at one end
of the basketball court.

At noon Barritt took stock of the situation, checking to see how
preparations were progressing in the gymnasium. Meantime, a
phone call was placed to the National Weather Service in Roanoke.
The news was not good.

‘‘The rain’s here for the day,’’ the Roanoke weatherman re-
ported. “‘Sorry.”’

At 12:30 p.m. the decision was made. Indoors, it would be.

Under the guidance of Arthur and his associates James Brown
and Scott Beebe, buildings and grounds had Warner Center well
under control. Darrell and Co. had the luncheon well under control.

Now the major concern involved preparations for the reception,
which had been scheduled for Stemmons Plaza and had been plan-
ned by Jim Whitehead, secretary to the Board of Trustees.

As Whitehead had conceived it, the reception would resemble
an English country fair. Banners and balloons would fly overhead.
A small band would play. Guests would stroll across the plaza to
one of the colorful wooden booths where they would be served
champagne or cider, ice cream, and cakes. President Wilson would
greet the well-wishers in a gazebo that was straight out of an
English garden.

 

Dean Emeritus William W. Pusey III (right) helps University Marshal
Westbrook Barritt keep the mace dry on the way to the ceremony.

Before the rain started, the booths and the gazebo and the other
trappings of the fair booths were transported to a holding area near
Stemmons Plaza. When the decision was made to go indoors, the
reception was shifted to Doremus Gymnasium. There was a prob-
lem. The booths would not fit through any of the doors into the
gym.

The solution was simple. The booths were sawed in half, the
halves were taken through the doors into the gym, and the booths
were put back together again. It was all accomplished within an
hour’s time and was perhaps the paramount example of the way
everybody pulled together to overcome the stumbling blocks the
weather had caused.

Nothing was to come easy this day, though. As the procession
stood poised to march down the aisle, a fuse blew in one of the am-
plifiers for the public address system. Technicians Tom Tinsley
and Dan Newhall found a replacement in the existing Warner
Center system, made the switch, and, presto, the inauguration of
John D. Wilson went off without a hitch.

—J.H.

 

 

 

 

by Robert Fure

Notes of aW&L
Watcher

Quince: Is all our company here?

Bottom: You were best to call them generally, man by man, according to the
scrip.

Quince: Here is the scroll of every man’s name which is thought fit, through all
Athens, to play in our interlude before the Duke and Dutchess on his
wedding day...

A Midsummer Night’s Dream

There is at Washington and Lee a certain attachment to
ceremony. It does not arise from any special predilection for
grandeur; neither the circumstances nor the participants would allow
anything beyond a modest and infrequent formality. Rather, the
fondness for ritual here is consistent with a simple reverence for
tradition. The ceremonies mark the major events of the academic
year, from memorial holidays to the traditional rites of passage,
those occasions on which the University convenes to witness the
graduation of its students. The faculty and the academic
administration don their robes, assemble in ranks of seniority, and
march in a long slow line of solemn sagacity to their appointed
places. It is pageantry without presumption or pomposity—a
ceremony of official acknowledgment, simply appropriate and
rather nice.

Once every several decades or so, Washington and Lee
undertakes to acknowledge, officially, the arrival of a new
president. The occasion tests to the absolute maximum the ability of
a diverse community of scholars and administrators, certainly the
most disjunct of social organizations, to prepare and conduct a
proper observance. As in most matters of moment, the inauguration
ceremony is a committee project and is thus subject to interminable
quandary and debate. The objective is a series of events and
activities over a period of days to celebrate the president’s
installation. If the committee succeeds in agreeing on a slate of
activities, the program is published in mimeographed form, and the
University community awaits, with hopeful eyes toward the
weather, its rare festival.

The whole affair has about it a quality reminiscent of home
weddings. The committee is charged with the responsibility of
arranging, as domestic circumstances permit, a holy matrimony
wholly at home, a sacrament on the lawn. It is cause for some
worry and bothersome excitement. Members of the committee fret,
like nervous parents of the bride, over the caterer, musicians, and
protocol: “‘first this, then this, or should we do this?’’ Meanwhile,
the president-elect, invisible and mute, goes about his business
somewhere in the house. Weddings, he might have said to himself,
are for the families.

And as the day approaches, everyone keeps an ear to weather
reports.

LJ

The inauguration of John Delane Wilson, the 21st president in

Washington and Lee’s 234-year history, began, appropriately it

seemed to everyone, with music. Professors Rob Stewart and
Gordon Spice were engaged to prepare their respective student
ensembles for the inaugural concert in Lee Chapel on Wednesday
evening, May 18.

Though no one whose regular job is the teaching of history,
Spanish, or business administration can be quite certain of how to
conduct presidential inaugurations, musicians can be counted on to
have at their disposal the right material for every occasion. Still,
when the members of Stewart’s Brass Ensemble took their places
before the small, amiable chapel audience, they betrayed some
discomfort over the weight of the occasion. Awaiting the
conductor, they sat stiffly in their tuxedos, gazing absently at each
other and their instruments, daring not to look at the audience.

At Stewart’s baton, they broke briskly into Nelybel’s
‘“Intrada,’’ a bright flourish of imperial announcement, and the
inaugural, to everyone’s satisfaction, was under way. Various
marches followed, horns flashing, baton waving smartly. But
Washington and Lee will always be a college of merely human
resources. Four of Stewart’s leading trumpet players were abroad in
various foreign study courses. At times, the difficult, uncertain
music blared unsteadily but then recovered, the students working
their horns, puffing and counting. Brass music is, by nature if not
always by intention, stirring. For the audience, half the excitement
must be the drama of individual efforts to sustain certain phrases
without faltering. However, when the ensemble moved into the
rousing jazz rhythms of Lionel Hampton and Gene Krupa originals, the

 

audience eased into a toe-tapping rapport. And, of course, when the
ensemble concluded with ‘‘The W&L Swing,’’ everyone rose
clapping.

The W&L Glee Club, which followed, had an easy time of it,
partly because the brass had so effectively cleared the air of any
nervous solemnity. The Glee Club is a multi-valved instrument
played with such verve and panache by Professor Spice that it
seems almost always ‘‘on.’’ Nothing seems to trouble the ranks of
bright, clean faces as they soar from one harmony to another. And
yet it must be acknowledged that there is something in a young
men’s singing group that, regardless of its technical
accomplishment, touches the heart. All of that adolescent tension,
the restless vigor and perplexity of young manhood, modulated into
the pure concordance of choral music—it is alone sufficient to lend
any collegiate occasion inspiration and grace.

Such qualities, naturally, are what the Inaugural Committee had
in mind. Perplexity modulated into concordance is, after all, what
ceremony is all about. Still no one could have anticipated the
enchantment produced by the Glee Club’s renditions of
Shenandoah, The Rhythm of Life, and an unusual Ave Maria. After
a final run-through of that old chestnut, ‘‘The W&L Swing,’’ the
audience moved toward the exits with perceptible buoyancy.

 

 

 

LJ

On inauguration day, it rained. What every member of the
University community feared would happen, happened. All week
the weather had been lovely, the warm May sun playing, it seemed,
behind and around occasional cumulus drifting in a bovine laziness
across the sky. On Thursday, however, the clouds came together
and just lay down over Lexington. By 11:00 a.m., everything was
wet.

It was not a nasty rain, the kind of rain that sweeps down in an
ornery assertion of weather’s power to play havoc with the
celebrations of man. Rather, it was a light, persistent rain, which
seemed in fact intent on a gentle purpose. Weather had its mind

 

quietly on something, a matter it could not divulge. Certain rains
are pranksters. This rain was a silent guest.

The committee’s prayers and lucky charms had not worked. The
several hundred people who arrived for luncheon on the lawn
hurried from their cars into Evans Dining Hall, clucking their
tongues. The dining hall soon clogged on long, serpentine lines of
damp but chatty diners. Jerry Darrell, food service director, stood in
the midst of the clatter like Napoleon in plaid slacks. The joy that
characterizes the mob psychology of unmitigated disasters had not
quite yet taken over. Folks first had to be fed.

There is, it should be mentioned, an interpretation of rain on
wedding days that holds poor weather to be a portent of good
fortune in marriage. Perhaps that’s what weather had on its mind
after all. On President Huntley’s inauguration day 15 years ago, it
rained buckets.

LJ

After lunch, at the door of the Warner Center, everyone
received the official inaugural program, which explained to the
surpise of few that, ‘‘in case of inclement weather,’’ the event
would indeed be held in the Warner Center. Rumor had brought
them there; now in small print they were assured thay they had not
been misled.

While the audience was settling into rows of folding chairs or
climbing cautiously into the bleachers, the corridors below the gym
were jammed with faculty assembling themselves for the inaugural
procession. In the locker rooms reserved for visiting teams, the
Board of Trustees and scores of academic dignitaries representing
other institutions donned their robes and mortarboards. At the
appointed time, Inaugural Committee Chairman Westbrook Barritt
lifted his massive, carved walnut mace and took his position as
University Marshal at the head of the procession. As the music
began, the procession undertook its slow ascent of the stairs into the
gym.

The ceremony itself struck a nice balance between brevity and
good words. Thomas Bartlett, chancellor of the University of
Alabama System, gave the convocation address, which combined

 

affectionate and witty praise of John Wilson with observations on
America’s need for a renewed commitment to the highest standards
of education. James Ballengee, Rector of the University, then
administered the oath of office and Wilson became president, in
formality as in fact. In his response, President Wilson offered his
gratitude, several amusing anecdotes, and in his graceful
conversational mode, his pledge to carry forth the good work of the
University. After a prolonged standing ovation, the Glee Club and
Brass Ensemble joined in a rendition of O How Amiable by Ralph
Vaughan Williams, and the convocation adjourned.

Following the ceremony, a reception was held in the old
Doremus Gymnasium. President and Mrs. Wilson greeted well-
wishers under one of the baskets at the far end of the floor while the
several hundred guests milled around the ‘‘English Country Fair’’
booths dispensing wine, cider, and ice cream. It was indeed a
nuptial occasion, though somewhat lacking in bridesmaids.

That night amid the glitter and din of 300 friends of the new
President and the University, the Board of Trustees hosted a Lee
Associates black tie dinner in Evans Dining Hall. The
circumstances were elegant, the food and wine excellent, and the
conversation intensely merry. Aprés le parfait, Southern Comfort, a
cheerful distillation of the W&L Glee Club, regaled the assembly
with spirited song. The honeymoon was well begun.

It was quite late before the guests, weary and yet somewhat
phosphorescent, finally rose to make their way arm-in-arm into the
outer darkness.

LJ

In its mimeographed schedule of Inaugural activities, the
committee listed as the final event the University Theatre’s
production of Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’ s Dream. The
production had been dedicated to the new President. In his
Inaugural remarks, Wilson alluded to the gesture with his
characteristically self-deprecatory wit: ‘‘I thought how very apt it
was that they should have chosen A Midsummer Night’ s Dream,

 

that great dramatic epithalamium, a celebration of marriage and
social stability, generational advance, continuity and love. And
when I mentioned that I thought it was extremely apt, one of my
colleagues said, ‘Yes, and it also celebrates the mysterious
metamorphosis of a silly rustic called Bottom into a jackass.’

Wilson, who earned his Ph.D. in Shakespearean studies, looked
forward happily to his first encounter with the Bard at W&L. As it
turned out, he was unable to attend the Inaugural performance. The
University’s Board of Trustees was meeting, so by Friday evening
Wilson was already deeply involved in the business he had in fact
been entrusted with long ago.

The wedding was over, and yet Wilson had set up housekeeping
at W&L in the Lee House months before the ceremony. Tradition
notwithstanding, we live in the era of the modern marriage.

99

 

 

by Jeffery Hanna

Asking The Questions

Doctors, Students Confront Phase II In Ninth Biomedical Ethics Institute

The 70-year-old woman was suffering
from gangrene in both legs. Already
hospitalized for treatment of the gangrene,
she suffered a heart attack and wound up in
the intensive care unit.

Her physician knew the patient faced
nearly insurmountable odds. In order to stop
the gangrene, both legs would have to be
amputated. The heart attack had complicated
matters further. And, the physician
recognized, there was the chance that she
would suffer another heart seizure while still
in intensive care.

Suppose she did? What should the doctor
do then? Should he make every effort,
“*heroic’’ (that is, extraordinary) efforts, to
revive her? Such efforts, the doctor knew,
would merely postpone the inevitable. Was
such a postponement desirable? For the
patient? For the patient’s family?

More than that, the doctor agonized over
another problem: who should make that
decision? The doctor himself? The patient’s
family? The patient?

And what of other considerations? The
costs, for instance. Would it really be worth
the amount necessary to keep the patient
alive? How much is a life worth, anyway?
Can the value of a life be calculated in
dollars and cents? And where does the
suffering enter into the equation?

Tantalizing questions, are they not?

Questions that provide fodder for lively
discussions, to be sure. Questions that are far
easier to confront from a safe distance, a
hypothetical “‘what would you do if. . .”’
distance, when the answer is not actually a
life or death decision.

These questions are not hypothetical,
however. Nor is the case a fictitious one
designed to have medical students ponder the
‘‘what ifs’’ from that safe distance. The case
is real. The questions are real. They are
questions that many doctors face daily. There
is no firm set of guidelines to follow, no
rulebook they can consult that provides the
appropriate answer for each case they
confront.

As one doctor who has had to face just
these questions explained the situation:
*“We’re searching for a formula, but it’s just
not there. If it could be established that X + Y +
Z means to resuscitate or not to resuscitate a
patient, it would be easy. But it isn’t easy.

 

Keynote speakers for the Biomedical Ethics Institute were (from left) James Childress of the University of

 

Virginia; Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion at W&L; and, Ronald Bayer of the Hastings Center.

There are dozens of factors: the patient is
involved, the family is involved, the
physician is involved, the hospital and its
staff are involved, cost is involved, society is
involved. What do we do? How do we
decide? What principles do we use? Who
decides what principles we use? And how do
they decide?’’

* * *

Washington and Lee’s ninth annual
Biomedical Ethics Institute this May was
different from the first eight. As in the past a
number of practicing physicians were invited
to join W&L professors and undergraduates
for two days of discussions on topics in
biomedical ethics. This time, however,
invitations went out to every doctor listed on
the W&L alumni rolls.

The ninth institute was different, too,
because before the participants rolled up their
sleeves to wrestle with the difficult issues,
they spent an evening celebrating. In this
case, the celebration was for the illustrious
career of James H. Starling, who retired in
June after 41 years of teaching biology and
20 years as the coordinator of the premedical
program.

On the eve of the institute, Starling was
honored at a banquet attended by many of his
former students, most of whom were participat-
ing in the institute. W&L President John D.
Wilson and Thomas Nye, head of the biology

department, both paid tribute to Starling,
who not only received several gifts but also
the warm wishes of the doctors he had
counseled during their undergraduate days at
WL. :

The Starling tribute, then, made this
Biomedical Ethics Institute different from its
forerunners. That was not the only way in
which it differed. This time the issues were a
bit different, too. ;

Louis W. Hodges, director of the
University’s program in applied ethics, told
the institute participants in their first session
that biomedical ethics has, over the past
decade, centered primarily upon patient
needs.

‘‘We have been patient-oriented,
focusing on the behavior of health care
practitioners at the point of delivery,’’ said
Hodges. ‘‘We have been interested in the
dilemmas that individual practitioners face.
And the major moral principle has been to
maximize patient benefit.”’

The issues that have been the focal point
for past institutes—issues such as informed -
consent, care of the terminally ill, abortion,
experimentation on human subjects, genetic
engineering—have certainly not been settled
during the past decade.

But, at the very least, those issues have
been addressed in a systematic fashion and,
Hodges suggested, ‘‘while we have not

 

‘How do you compare 30,000 lives saved
with millions of lives made more livable

by an impact on arthritis?’

 

reached full consensus about solutions, we
have at least reached wide agreement about
what the issues are and we have narrowed
the list of acceptable solutions. ’’

Now the broad area known as
‘*biomedical ethics’’ must begin to address a
new agenda, ‘‘Phase II’’ as Hodges termed
it, in which the two paramount issues will
involve the allocation of health care
resources in the face of scarcity and the role
of the state in regulating professional
practice.

And these were the two topics that the
institute, composed of 27 practicing
physicians, one nurse, one hospital chaplain,
and 16 undergraduate students, examined
during a day and a half of intense study.

* * *

No single event in the area of medical
technology has created the stir that the saga
of Barney Clark did earlier this year.

Everyone in the country was captivated
for months by the daily reports of Barney
Clark’s progress as he became the first man
to live with a mechanical, man-made heart.

As Ronald Bayer, an associate for policy
studies with the Hastings Center, told the
institute participants: ‘“Barney Clark’s story
was the stuff of which science fiction is
written—a brave man, an amazing
machine.”’

And yet, Bayer argued, ‘“behind that
very exciting story was the fact that were we
to develop the artificial heart, perfect it, and
were we to make it available the way we
make (kidney) dialysis available, that is to
everyone who could use it, the cost would be
about $3.8 billion a year. That’s an issue we
have to confront.

‘‘Not having that heart available would
mean that the Barney Clarks would die. The
question is whether that’s the way we want
to spend a significant chunk of our health
care dollar. We can’t avoid that question
anymore because we now have the capacity
to do those things. In the past we didn’t have
to face those questions.

‘‘How do you choose between medical
technologies? How do you choose which
technologies to underwrite with federal
dollars? How do you choose the technologies
to move off the drawing board to mass
distribution?’’

Bayer had begun by making a case that

10

the health care system in the United States
‘‘systematically fails to meet the needs of a
stunning number of Americans’’ and noting
that the pattern of health care for the poor in
rural areas, for blacks, and for Hispanics
‘‘differs markedly and systematically from
that which most Americans take for
granted.’

His premise was that we face a scarcity in
the availability of health care and must,
therefore, pay far greater attention to the
ways in which we allocate these resources.

‘‘If we are to begin considering the
question of access to health care seriously
and the question of cost containment, it will
be necessary to begin a very hard and
systematic examination of the structure of
our health care system,’’ said Bayer. “Most
important, it will be necessary to consider
placing limits on the rate and pattern of
technological innovations in medicine.’’

Obviously, such an argument recognizes
that there will be many, many hard
decisions. After all, as Bayer asked, ‘“How
do you compare 30,000 lives saved (with a
new technology) with millions of lives made
more livable by an impact on arthritis?’’

Ultimately, he said, ‘‘it is going to come
down to a decision of what we value most,
what we see as the greatest good. And that

James H. Starling is congratulated following a banquet in his honor.

can’t be given in a technological equation. It
is primarily not a medical decision, though.
medical information is crucial. The decision
as to whether we prefer to save 30,000 lives
or reduce the suffering of millions of arthritis
victims . . . is ultimately political and has to
be resolved by the people of America.”’

How do we decide which technological
innovations to restrain and which to
promote? The fairest method ‘‘requires that
the impact of the restraint falls equally on all
people,’’ Bayer said. ‘‘The lesson of dialysis
is we cannot keep it restricted to those who
can afford it. The American people, with
good reason, will not tolerate it.’’

Needless to say, Bayer’s argument did
not go unchallenged by the physicians in
attendance. Nor did he expect it to. ‘I was
told by one group of doctors to whom I
spoke that with people like me in charge,
there wouldn’t be a light bulb today,”’
admitted Bayer as he parried during the
lively debate that followed his presentation.

Primarily there was a concern among the
doctors present that research must not be
curtailed, that placing any limits on the way
in which technological innovations are being
advanced would be disastrous.

“*It is,’’ one of the doctors told Bayer,
“*scary for me to hear anybody suggest

 

 

‘The principle of respect of persons
should lead to the conclusion that competent persons
have the right to forego . . . any life-sustaining procedures. ’

 

cutting back on technology when you
consider all the advances that come not only
from specific research but as spinoffs from
the various research projects.”’

Too, the physicians in attendance had
already expressed growing concerns about a
**deprofessionalization’’ in medicine. As one
doctor put it, “‘more and more people are
trying to usurp the traditional roles of a
physician.’’ As another said, “‘there has
already been an abrogation of the
relationship doctors used to enjoy with their
patients.”’

Clearly, many of the doctors felt that
Bayer’s argument for having decisions on
where to go in technology made in a public
forum would further that deprofession-
alization.

Still, there was no argument that the
issue of containing costs within the health
care profession must be addressed.

* * *

No code. On hospital’s patient charts that
phrase “‘no code’’ might take the form of a
yellow plastic strip. What does it mean? The
*"no code’’ patients are not to be saved when
their hearts stop.

__ Who decides which patients are given
that “no code’’ designation? How are those
decisions made? And, most importantly, how
does the patient enter into that process?

‘“Because we have the technical capacity
to do certain things, we experience the
conflict of moral principles—often a conflict
between a desire to benefit the patient and a
desire to respect the patient’s wishes,’’ said
James Childress, professor of religious
studies and medical education at the
University of Virginia. ‘‘The principle of
respect of persons should lead to the
conclusion that competent persons have the
right to forego, to refuse, any life-sustaining
procedures. ”’

There are, argued Childress, “‘very few
cases of genuine moral dilemmas’’ in the
case of dying patients. Instead, he suggested
‘‘there are a lot of cases of uncertainty—
uncertainty about whether the patient is
competent, uncertainty about what the
prognosis is, and even if the patient is compe-
tent, uncertainty about what the patient’s
wishes really are.”’

In his presentation Childress outlined the
way in which one state legislature had

Religion professor Harlan Beckley (center) leads the doctors and students in a discussion session.

entered into the process that once left all
such decisions strictly up to the physicians.

In March the Virginia legislature adopted
The Natural Death Act, which provides
guidelines for cases involving dying patients
and allows for competent patients to make
their own decisions in what are often called
*‘living wills.”’

“A competent adult may instruct his
physician to withhold or withdraw life-saving
procedures or designate another person to
make that decision for him,’’ said Childress.

Such legislative action is, Childress said,
important for the patients, important for the
physicians, and important for the patient’s
families.

Initially, Childress noted, many
physicians were opposed to The Natural
Death Act ‘‘because they viewed it as
meddling in medicine.’’ But he added that
more recently ““support is much greater
around the country because it is viewed as a
way under the threat of malpractice suits to
exempt (the physician) from criminal
prosecution and civil liability. It is seen as
protecting rather than interfering.’’

The problem is that few people will take
advantage of the legislation. ‘‘People are not
prone to face their own deaths,’’ said
Childress.

So despite the current tendency toward
respecting the wishes of individual patients

 

in instances when they are competent to

decide whether to withhold or withdraw life-
sustaining devices, the fact is that physicians
must still struggle with this issue themselves.

And as an indication that Childress’
presentation and the overall discussion of
dying patients’ rights was no mere academic
exercise, it should be noted that two of the
physicians present at the institute were
confronted with just such questions—
whether to use life-sustaining devices or to
issue “‘no code’’ orders—during the three
days of the institute.

* * *

Before the doctors and students and
professors began their discussions, Hodges
reminded them that the first task of ethics is
to identify the crucial questions, that ‘‘only
when we ask the questions carefully can we
hope to move to moral solutions.”’

In sessions such as the Biomedical Ethics
Institute and in similar sessions for attorneys,
journalists, and businessmen as part of
W&L’s ‘‘Society and the Professions’’
program, the questions are being asked. And
in some crucial areas practitioners and
undergraduates who are planning to become
practitioners are finding better solutions.
More importantly, they are discovering that
reasoned discourse can help to clarify values
and establish criteria for judging the
competing solutions.

11

 

 

by Jeffery Hanna

And
The
Winner

Was...

Richard Rosser, ’84,
Earns “Student Oscar,’
Hollywood Trip

For Animated Film

Next time you start bemoaning the vast
wasteland that is television, consider the case
of Richard Rosser, 84.

Thanks in part to those endless Saturday
mornings Rosser spent watching Bugs Bunny
foil Elmer Fudd and cheering the Pink
Panther’s exploits, Rosser spent five all-
expense-paid days in Hollywood, attended a
series of workshops led by several motion

 

 

Richard Rosser (right) receives his award from Hollywood animator T. Hee with Oscar as backdrop.

picture producers and directors, cashed a
$1,000 check, and picked up a trophy from
the same folks who hand out the famous gold
statuettes each year.

As his project for a Washington and Lee
seminar in motion pictures during the 1982
spring term, Rosser produced (directed,
filmed, created, etc.) a three-minute
animated film entitled ‘“No One For Chess?’’

The film earned Rosser an A in the
course. But that was just the beginning.

Encouraged by W&L journalism
professor John Jennings, Rosser entered the
film in a few contests to see what other
people thought of his creation.

One evening in mid-May he found out
what the Academy of Motion Picture Arts

and Sciences—the ‘‘Oscar’’ folks themselves
—thought of his film when he received a
telegram from Hollywood notifying him that
the Academy had selected ‘‘No One For
Chess?’’ as the best animated film in the
10th annual Student Film Awards.

‘*Anyone in Rockbridge County who had
their windows open about 8:15 on May 17
knew I won,”’ said Rosser. ‘‘My shouting
could be heard for miles around.”’

Rosser flew to Hollywood on June 1 and
was presented with his award—a plaque
bearing little resemblance to the Oscar, but
who cares?—during ceremonies on June 5 at
the Academy’s Samuel Goldwyn Theatre in
Beverly Hills. The free trip, the workshops,
the check, and the trophy aside, perhaps the

 

 

12

 

 

 

most rewarding part of Rosser’s victory is
that his film will be shown at colleges and
universities throughout the country under the
Academy’s sponsorship.

If he forgot to give Bugs and the Pink
Panther credit in his acceptance speech,
Rosser should be forgiven. Actually, his
cartoon shares little in common with the sort
of animation that shows up on TV screens
around the country every Saturday morning.

**No One For Chess?’’ is done in clay
animation. Rosser fashioned a chess set out
of clay, focused the camera on a chess board,
and let his imagination take over. The result
is a wonderfully bizarre chess game in which
the pieces glide across the board under their
own power, suddenly changing their form as
they make capturing moves that would leave
Bobby Fischer scratching his head.

‘“What captivated me about using clay
for the animation was that the possibilities
were literally endless,’’ Rosser said. ‘‘Unlike
a film with actors where you are limited,
there are no limits in animation. At one point
in my film a chess piece turns into something
that looks strikingly like an elephant without
legs and the elephant swims right off the
board. That’s something you can’t create
anywhere but in this medium.’’

Before you jump to the conclusion that
Rosser is (1) an art major or (2) a chess
master, you should know he is neither. A
native of Oklahoma City, he is majoring in
business administration. The spring term
course in motion pictures was something he
wanted to try for the fun of it.

**T was always your basic Saturday
morning cartoon watcher,’’ Rosser noted.
*“My favorites were Bugs Bunny and the
Pink Panther, the oldies. When it started
getting to where they simplified the cartoons
and made them easier to produce, I think
that, even as a kid, I could tell the
difference. The cartoons became less
interesting then, and I rarely watch cartoons
now.”’

Aside from the old standards, Rosser
remembers being captivated by a cartoon
called ‘‘Davey and Goliath.”’

‘Tt came on at about 8 o’clock every
Sunday morning,’ he remembered. ‘‘It was

not the cel animation that is typical of most
mass-produced cartoons, but it wasn’t clay,
either. In fact, I don’t to this day know how
the cartoon was made, but I do remember

how the characters had a lot of facial features
and actions that seemed doll-like. That
intrigued me from a technical standpoint.’’

The memory of those ‘‘Davey and
Goliath’’ cartoons were lying dormant
somewhere in the recesses of Rosser’s
mind until the project for Jennings’ motion
picture course turned them loose.

The project did not specify animation.
But somehow that was the natural direction
Rosser took. He knew he wanted to use clay
but spent considerable time trying to decide
what kind of characters he would mold.

**T just happened upon the idea of chess
pieces while I was looking around at rather
commonplace inanimate objects to see what
sort of motion I could give to them,”’’ said
Rosser. “‘I have played chess, but I am by no
means a Strategic chess player. I bought a
book on chess, then talked two friends who
are strategic players to sit down and play

 

several games while I charted each move.’’

Armed with all manner of detail, Rosser
set to work by putting a 16 mm camera on a
tripod, molding his figures, and settling in
for what he figures was 20 hours of
filming—that’s about six and a half hours for
each minute of the film.

‘IT began with a basic plan of how each
figure would move,”’ Rosser said. ‘‘I would
move a piece about an eighth of an inch,
then shoot one frame.”’

Though the work was tedious, Rosser
eventually forgot about the time when he
began creating moves that were never a part
of the original plan.

At one point in the film, a bishop
suddenly turns into a rocket and blasts off
toward an unsuspecting rook. In another
sequence a monk—‘‘Lots of people think
it’s a woman, but it was a monk when I
molded it,’’ he says—marches out of
nowhere and carries off one of the pawns. A
tree grows out of the board; a snake slithers
into view; pieces are decapitated and lassoed.

Finally, the black queen takes the rook

right beside the enemy king, which is then
decapitated as the words ‘‘Check Mate’’ are
scrawled on the screen followed by ‘‘The
End’’—both done in clay.

‘*Chess purists might argue that I’ve
taken some liberties, and I have,’’ Rosser
said. ‘‘But it is a match. There is a plot.”’

When he entered his film in one national
contest, Rosser was disappointed to have it
returned without any comments—pro or con.
That’s why he decided to go ahead and enter
the Student Film Awards.

**Professor Jennings had said it was the
best animation that had been done here at
W&L,”’ Rosser said. ‘‘All I wanted was to know
what some other people who work in films
thought of it. I liked it, but I wondered how
good it really was.’’

Once he learned that his film had been
selected by a regional panel to go to
Hollywood for judging by the Academy,
Rosser was cheered by the knowledge that
someone else thought he had something.

But no one gave him much of a chance to
win in the national competition.

‘It seemed rather unrealistic to expect a
lot when he was competing against the film
students at places such as Southern Cal and
UCLA,”’ said Jennings. ‘‘To win in that sort
of competition is quite remarkable.”’

‘“The people I met in Hollywood during
the awards ceremony were rather amazed to
learn that I was a business administration
major,’’ said Rosser, whose five days in
Hollywood included a banquet at the Brown
Derby and an interview for the syndicated
Entertainment Tonight television show.
‘‘Many were also surprised that the film had
no sound. Some of the people suggested that
the animation had to be awfully good to win
Since it was a silent film.’’

Not too many days after he received word
of the award, Rosser was invited to show his
film to a sixth grade class at a Lexington
grammar school.

‘“That’s when I knew it was worth
something,’’ said Rosser. ‘‘When I heard
those kids oohing and aahing when one of
the chess pieces turned into something else,
it really made me feel as if I’d accomplished
something.”’

 

 

 

13

 

 

   

Valedictorians (from left) John Vlahoplus, Scott Hall, and Mike Streiff stand for recognition during commencement exercises on the Front Campus.

Commencement Firsts

Three Valedictorians Recognized During June Exercises

Commencement 1983 was a day of firsts
at Washington and Lee.

Not only did it mark the first time that
W&L President John D. Wilson had presided
over the exercises and presented the
traditional remarks to the graduates, but for
the first time in history the University
recognized three valedictorians, all of whom
had compiled perfect 4.0 grade-point
averages during their four years.

Named as valedictorians were Scott W.
Hall of Danville, Va., Michael B. Streiff of
Gainesville, Fla., and John C. Vlahoplus of
Columbia, S.C.

Hall was an interdepartmental major in
the natural sciences and mathematics and
received the bachelor of science degree
summa cum laude. Streiff was a biology
major and also received the bachelor of
science degree summa cum laude. Viahoplus
received the bachelor of arts degree summa
cum laude from the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. He majored in
economics.

Both Hall and Streiff won Fulbright
Scholarships and will study for a year in
Germany before both enter medical school,
Hall at the University of Virginia and Streiff

14

 

President John D. Wilson presents degree to senior
Henry Baey.

at the University of Florida. Vlahoplus, who
was also the 1983 recipient of the Algernon
Sidney Sullivan Medallion, will enter
Harvard Law School in the fall.

In addition to awarding bachelors degrees
to 276 graduates during the commencement
exercises, the University conferred honorary
degrees upon Leslie Cheek Jr. of Richmond,
director emeritus of the Virginia Museum;
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek of Richmond, a

civic leader and former president of the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Association;
William Webb Pusey III, dean and S. Blount
Mason Jr. Professor of German Emeritus at
W&L; and, Justice Roscoe B. Stephenson
Jr., °43, ’47L, of the Virginia Supreme
Court.

Two retiring Washington and Lee
professors were recognized during the
ceremony: William A. Jenks, professor of
history, and James H. Starling, professor of
biology.

Also recognized during the ceremony
were Betty Munger, who is retiring after 16
years as manager of the University’s
bookstore; Almand R. Coleman, who is
retiring from the position of distinguished
lecturer in accounting; and Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr., who is retiring as dean of
the School of Law.

In his remarks to the graduates, Wilson
cited two things he believes set Washington
and Lee apart as a distinctive institution. One
is the character of the University’s faculty.
The other, he said, is the students’ “‘own
essential decency as human beings.

‘*T have truly come to know and to like
you for your human qualities,’’ Wilson told
the graduates. ‘‘To be sure, intellectual

 

attainments are our first objective. . . . We
cannot lose our reputation for academic
standards and hard intellectual work or we
will lose much of our standing in the world
and will diminish the claims we are now able
to make upon it. But I still put decency
first.”’

Wilson told the graduates to ““do well in
the world. Carry yourselves with dignity
and, yet, with a touch of self-deprecation
too. Repay your parents in the only way you
can: by living good and successful lives and
by helping, in turn, your children, and
others, too, to start out well, along the paths
of achievement.”’

That, added Wilson, “‘is the best way to
thank your parents for their support and -
sacrifice—to show them that you are now Leslie Cheek Jr.
able to understand one of life’s great
paradoxes: that true happiness will come to
those of us who care deeply about others, to
those of us who can give ourselves in love or
in compassion to others who need our help.’”’

In addition to Wilson’s remarks,
graduating senior Bennett Ross of
Huntington, W.Va., president of the student
body at W&L, spoke on behalf of the
seniors.

The day before the commencement
exercises Rev. George M. Docherty told the
W&L graduates in his baccalaureate sermon
that “‘it is your task to see that the world
becomes sane again’’ in the face of what he
called ‘‘a kind of nuclear insanity... .”’

Docherty, a native of Scotland and
former minister of the New York Avenue
Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C.,
was the visiting Howerton Scholar-in-
Residence in the University’s department of
religion this spring.

Docherty reminded the graduates of the
University’s motto of “‘Non In Cautus
Futuri,’’ which he translated ‘‘Do not go into
the future with caution’’ and then added: ‘‘I
would put that more affirmatively: go into
the future, not cautiously, but boldly.”’

Suggesting that the threat of nuclear war
makes ‘‘this the most terrifying page in the
history of the world,’’ Docherty told the
graduates that they enter that future ‘‘well-
equipped. You have health and strength. You
have a proud heritage. You have been
equipped splendidly at this University. But
that won’t change the course of this country.
It can mean giving your heart, burningly, to
life itself, whatever that may be for you. It
will mean rising above party prejudice, racial
prejudice, country prejudice, to see the world
as it is.”

Leslie Cheek Jr. received the honorary
doctor of fine arts degree while his wife
Mary Tyler Freeman Cheek received the
doctor of humane letters degree.

Mr. Cheek was director of the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond for 20
years. Under his directorship, the Richmond-

 

 

William Webb Pusey III

 

 

based museum increased its membership by
approximately 300 percent. Mrs. Cheek has
been extremely active in civic affairs in
Richmond, serving on the board of the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Association and as a
trustee of Hollins College, among others.

Mr. and Mrs. Cheek have been generous
benefactors of Washington and Lee. In 1976
the Cheeks gave ‘‘Skylark’’—their 365-acre
mountaintop estate and Christmas tree farm
on the Blue Ridge Parkway—to the
University. The gift was made in memory of
Mrs. Cheek’s father, Douglas Southall
Freeman, the biographer of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee.

Pusey, who received the doctor of letters
degree, taught at Washington and Lee from
1939 until his retirement in 1981. He was a
professor and head of the German
department, the first S. Blount Mason Jr.
Professor of German, dean of the College for
11 years, and acting president for five
months in 1967.

The author of several books, Pusey’s
most recent volume is entitled Elusive
Aspirations, a history of Lexington’s Ann
Smith Academy.

Justice Stephenson received the doctor of
law degree. Formerly Commonwealth’s
Attorney for Alleghany County, he served as
judge of the 25th Judicial Circuit of Virginia
for eight years before being appointed to the
Supreme Court of Virginia in 1981.

 

 

Law School Commencement

Washington and Lee awarded juris doctor
degrees to 123 law students during
commencement exercises for the W&L
School of Law on May 13.

The commencement marked the last for
Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. as dean of the law
school. He is retiring from that post in July.

W&L President Wilson paid tribute to
Steinheimer in his remarks to the law school
graduates when he said that ““Roy
Steinheimer will have forever the pleasure
and the deep satisfaction of knowing that he
virtually remade one of America’s...
significant institutions. ”’

Wilson then referred to several of the
numerous changes accomplished during
Steinheimer’s deanship: the size of the
school increased by 2% times, women were
admitted as candidates for degrees, 90
percent of the current faculty was recruited
by Steinheimer, a new law school building
(Lewis Hall) was constructed, and the
Frances Lewis Law Center was established.

**For you and the 14 other classes whose
diplomas carry his (Steinheimer’s) signature,
he will always be the dean,’’ Wilson added.

Wilson told the law graduates that people
‘are starting to wonder whether we have

16

 

Bookstore manager Betty Munger

created too many statutes, whether we
haven’t contrived too many regulations to
govern our corporate and our social lives,
whether the jurisdiction of the court hasn’t
reached out too far to take in matters that
could perhaps be more properly settled by
other bodies.’’

Within the profession, added Wilson,
“*there are concerns about whether equity
under the law is available to all our
citizens . . . (concerns) that the criminal
justice system continues to be clogged and
creaking and groaning with its processes.
There is the double and paradoxical criticism
that there is not enough emphasis being
given to reconciliation . . . and at the same
time the accompanying criticism that there is
too much emphasis on plea-bargaining.’’

Wilson asked the law graduates ‘‘not to
leave these criticisms to the amateurs. Your
generation must take them up afresh, deal
seriously with those warranting serious

President Wilson with retiring law dean Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.

 

eS

Retiring professor Almand Coleman

study, make it the real attention of the
profession.”’

There is, Wilson added, ‘““‘more at stake
than the proper ordering of the larger society.
Also at stake is the self-governing character
of the profession itself, and that must be
safeguarded.’’

Steinheimer, meantime, told the
graduates to remember that ‘‘a lawyer must
be not only courageous but must be
compassionate.”’

He asked that the members of the law
class ‘‘conduct your affairs with a sense of
decency and civility which respects the
dignity of all persons, friend or foe, who
may be touched by your actions. Always
faithfully discharge your professional
obligations to the very best of your
abilities. . . . Most importantly, always
remember that the only real asset that a
lawyer has is his reputation for honesty and
integrity. Guard and nurture this precious

 

 

asset throughout your professional life.’’

The John W. Davis Prize for Law, given
to the best record for general excellence
throughout his law school career, was
presented to Michael Louis Krancer of
Villanova, Pa.

The newly-created Roy L. Steinheimer
Jr. Commercial Law Award went to Coyne
Drew Demaray of Birmingham, Ala. The
award was established by the law school
faculty in Steinheimer’s honor.

Happiness is a juris doctor degree for these W&L law graduates.

 

 

Jenks, Starling
retire from faculty

Two of Washington and Lee’s most
distinguished senior professors retired this
year.

William A. Jenks, the William B. Kenan
Jr. Professor of History and head of the
history department, and James H. Starling,
professor of biology and coordinator of
premedical studies, have been designated
professors emeriti by the University’s board
of trustees.

Jenks and Starling taught at W&L for a
combined total of 75 years. They were
formerly recognized during the
undergraduate commencement exercises.

Jenks is a native of Jacksonville, Fla.,
and an alumnus of Washington and Lee. He
received his bachelor’s degree in history
magna cum laude from W&L in 1939 and
then earned both his master’s degree and
Ph.D. in European history from Columbia
University.

He joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1946 following his service in the
U.S. Army and the Office of Strategic
Services.

Chief among Jenks’ research interests has
been the history of Austria. He is the author

 

of four books on that subject: The Austrian
Electoral Reform of 1907, published in 1950;
Vienna and the Young Hitler (1960); Austria
Under the Iron Ring, 1879-93, published in
1965; and, Francis Joseph and the Italians,
1849-59, published in 1978.

Jenks has conducted extensive research in
Austria and Italy during leaves of absence
from W&L on special study grants. In 1954-
55 he studied in Italy and Austria under the
auspices of the Fund for the Advancement of
Education and the Fulbright program. In
1961-62 he was awarded a Social Science
Research Council grant for study in Austria.
In 1967-68 he conducted research in Austria
and Italy under a fellowship from the
American Council of Learned Societies.

He has been a visiting professor at the

James H. Starling

 

 

University of Virginia, Duke University, the
University of Maryland, Virginia Military
Institute and Virginia Tech.

Jenks was named head of the department
of history in 1970 and was appointed the
William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of History in
1971. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa.

Starling is a native of Troy, Ala. He
received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees
from the University of Alabama and his
Ph.D. in zoology and ecology from Duke
University.

He joined the faculty of Washington and
Lee in September 1942 and taught for a year
before leaving to spend three years as a
parasitologist in the Army’s Medical Corps.

Starling has written several articles for
scholarly journals and has conducted
research on National Science Foundation
grants at both Oak Ridge (Tenn.) Institute of
Nuclear Studies and at the University of
North Carolina.

He served as head of the W&L biology
department from 1976 until 1978. He was
named coordinator of premedical studies at
the University in 1963 and has, in that
Capacity, worked with the Washington and
Lee undergraduates who have pursued
medical careers.

Formerly the University marshal at
W&L, Starling is a member of the Virginia
Academy of Science, the Southeastern
Association of Advisers for the Health
Professions, and the American Association
for the Advancement of Science.

He has been active in the Lexington
Presbyterian Church, the Tuberculosis
Association, and the Red Cross Blood Bank.

 

William A. Jenks

17

Graduating Sons and Daughter of Alumni

 

Sons of alumni who received academic degrees standing behind their fathers: Robert J. Berghel, ’61L, William W. Berghel; Andrew M. Moore, ’40, David W. Moore;
Paul M. Shuford, ’43,’48L, Mark C. Shuford; Ernest E. Smith, ’43, David B. Smith; Walter Smith, ’54, Howard Smith; Ralph S. Park, ’54, (stepfather), Jonathan
R. Kelafant; Townsend Oast, ’41,’47L, Townsend Oast Jr.; Albert W. Daub, ’53, Steven A. Daub; David M. Murray Sr., ’53, ’55L, David M. Murray Jr., Philip W.
Murray III; Patrick C. Devine, ’46, William F. Devine; W. L. Roberts Jr., ’62, William L. Roberts Ill; F . Eric Nelson Sr., ’54L, Fredrik E. Nelson Jr.; Ernest M.
Holdaway, ’51L, Brian K. Holdaway; Robert C. Peery, ’41, William M. Peery; J. E. Lipscomb III, ’58, James E. Lipscomb IV.

 

More sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their fathers: Edward W. Rugeley Jr., ’53, Edward W. Rugeley III; Harry M. Rhett Jr., ’35,
William B. Rhett; Walter R. Randall, ’52, Walter R. Randall Jr.; Julian W. Selig,’ 14, (grandfather), Camden W. Selig; Thomas O. Lawson, ’56, Thomas M. Lawson,
R. Franklin Adams, ’60, (stepfather), Raymond L. Nichols Jr.; Ralph R. Burchenal, ’54, James J. Burchenal; Samuel B. Hollis Sr.,’51, Samuel B. Hollis Jr.; R.S.
Griffith Jr.,’52, Robert S. Griffith III; Thomas F .. King Jr.,’58, Charles D. Gray, ’ 14, ( great-grandfather), Thomas F. King III; William M. France, ’58, William M.
France Jr.; Thomas A. S. Wilson, ’56, Thomas A. Wilson; GeraldI. Moyer Sr.,’57, GeraldI. Moyer Jr.; John H. Thomas Jr.,’31, Thomas R. Thomas (not in picture).

 

Alumni fathers of law graduates: Douglas M. Smith, ’51,’53L, Herbert G. Smith II; A. P. Thomson, ’33, Paul H. Thomson; Felix J. Ward, ’53L, Jacqueline F. Ward;

Bernard J. Natkin, ’51L, David H. Natkin; Allan M. Warner, ’50, (stepfather), William A. Powell III.

18

 

 

Reunions ’83

Ambassador Brock Keynoter, Three Named Distinguished Alumni

The recognition of three outstanding
Washington and Lee alumni, a speech by
U.S. Trade Representative William E.
Brock, ’53, and the election of new alumni
officers were among the variety of events
taking place during the annual spring alumni
reunions in May.

The University conferred Distinguished
Alumnus Awards upon attorney Edwin J.
Foltz, ’40L, of Gladwyne, Pa., bank
executive Adrian L. McCardell, ’29, of
Baltimore, and attorney Sherwood Willing
Wise, 32, ’34L, of Jackson, Miss.

Selected by the board of directors of the
W&L Alumni Association, the awards were
announced at the annual meeting of that
association in Lee Chapel.

After receiving his law degree, Foltz
began a legal practice that saw him admitted
to practice before the bar in five states and
the U.S. Supreme Court. During World War
II, he served with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, rising from special agent to
administrative assistant to the director.

Following the FBI years, he entered the
business world and held executive positions
in the Borg-Warner Corp. before moving to
Campbell Soup Co. in 1953. With Campbell
Soup, he became vice president of personnel,
vice president of corporate relations,
president of Campbell Soup International,
and president of the Campbell Soup Fund.

After retiring from the Campbell Soup
Co., Foltz returned to the legal profession
when he joined the Philadelphia law firm of
Hepburn, Willcox, Hamilton and Putnam.

McCardell earned his M.B.A. degree
from Harvard. His career as a bank examiner
was interrupted by World War II in which he
served as a commander in the U.S. Navy.

Following the war he joined Seaboard
National Bank of Norfolk as vice president
and, in 1956, he moved to the Charleston
(W.Va.) National Bank in a similar capacity.
In 1958 he became vice president of the First
National Bank of Maryland, serving there
successively as vice president, executive vice
president, president, chairman of the board
of directors, and chairman of the executive
committee before his retirement.

Wise has practiced law in his native
Mississippi since his graduation from the
W&L School of Law. He is a past president
of the Mississippi State Bar and is currently a

President John D. Wilson (far left) presented Distinguished Alumnus Awards to (from left) Edwin J. Foltz,

 

 

*40L; Adrian L. McCardell Jr., ’29; and, Sherwood W. Wise, ’32, ’34L.

 

U.S. Trade Representative William Brock, ’53

Mississippi state delegate to the American
Bar Association’s House of Delegates.
Ambassador Brock had opened the
alumni weekend by telling a Lee Chapel
audience, including his classmates from the
Class of ’53, that it is ‘‘an act of national
insanity to let our educational system go
down as it has for 20 consecutive years.”’
Brock, who is President Reagan’s
personal representative in all matters
concerning foreign trade, prefaced his
remarks on what he sees as a deterioration in

 

the educational system by praising the United
States ‘‘as the most productive country in the
history of mankind by any measure
whatsoever. ”’

‘‘Overall the American people . . . are
approximately 65 percent more productive
than the Japanese, who are viewed as our
toughest competitor,’’ Brock said. ‘‘We
don’t talk much about that. We don’t think
about that. . . . We spend all our time
talking about how bad we are, how
inadequate we are... .”’

But Brock added that if there is one thing
that will determine where the United States is
20 years from now, it will be our ability to
turn the educational system around.

In addition to the naming of the
Distinguished Alumni, the annual meeting of
the alumni included W&L President John D.
Wilson’s first report to the alumni,
recognition of retiring Alumni Secretary
William C. Washburn, and a presentation to
former W&L President Robert E. R.
Huntley.

Peter A. Agelasto III, 62, a Norfolk,
Va., attorney, was elected national president
of the Alumni Association, succeeding G.
Russell Ladd III, ’57, of Mobile, Ala.

Also elected officers of W&L’s Alumni
Association were William C. Norman Jr.,
’56, of Crossett, Ark., who is the new vice
president, and William E. Latture of

19

Reunions ’83

Greensboro, N.C., ’49, who was reelected as
treasurer.

In addition, five W&L alumni were
elected to the board of directors of the
Alumni Association. They are: Dr. G.
Edward Calvert, ’44, of Lynchburg; C.
DuBose Ausley, 59, of Tallahassee, Fla.;
Dr. John Poynor, ’62, of Birmingham, Ala.;
Stanley A. Walton III, 62, ’65L, of
Chicago; and, Henry Nottberg II, ’71, of
Kansas City, Mo.

Meanwhile, Raymond W. Haman, ’52L,
of Seattle, Wash., was elected president of
the Law School Association.

Robert G. McCullough of Nashville, ’58,
was elected vice president.

At its annual meeting the Law School
Association honored retiring Dean Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr. by presenting him with a
painting of Lewis Hall and a set of golf clubs
as well as adopting a resolution praising
Steinheimer for ‘‘his strong and dynamic
leadership necessary for achieving continued
excellence in both faculty and student
body.’”’ |

Three new members were elected to the
Law School Association’s council. They are:
Ray V. Hartwell III, ’75, of Richmond;
Donald H. Partington, ’64, of Pensacola,
Fla.; and, Pamela J. White, ’77, of
Baltimore.

Trophies for the annual fund were also
presented during the general alumni meeting.
Those winners were:

Washington Trophy (largest amount
given by an undergraduate class graduated in
the last 50 years): Class of 1940A, Ross
Hersey, class agent.

Richmond Trophy (highest participation
by an undergraduate class graduated in the
last 50 years): Class of 1934A, Scotty
Mosovich, class agent.

Bierer Trophy (highest participation by
an undergraduate class graduated in the last
10 years): Class of 1975A, Bob Keatley,
class agent.

Malone Trophy (largest amount by a law
class graduated in the last 50 years): Class of
1975L, Opie Pollard, class agent.

Thomas Trophy: (reunion class,
undergraduate and law combined, whose
gifts show the greatest increase over the
preceding year): Class of 1958, Vernon
Holleman, class agent for 1958A, and Bob
Stroud, class agent for 1958L.

20

    
   

 

Law school dean Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.(right) receives a painting of Lewis Hall by Lexington artist David
Keeling, ’73, (left).

 

s x

New Law School Association President Raymond W. Haman, ’52L, of Seattle, Wash., at the association
banquet.

Recipients of the annual fund trophies for 1982-83 were (from left) Robert E. R. Huntley with Malone
Trophy for the law class of ’57; Olin K. Miller with the Richmond Trophy for the class of ’34; Ross Hersey
with the Washington Trophy for the class of ’40; B. Harrison Turnbull with the Bierer Trophy for the class
of ’74; and Vernon W. Holleman with the Thomas Trophy for the class of ’58.

 

 

 

Class of ’43
Reunion

 

 

 

 

 

Class of ’48
Reunion

Class of ’ 53
Reunion

 

 

 

21

Sessoms
Named
Director
Of Alumni
Programs

Succeeds Bill Washburn
As Executive Secretary
Of Alumni Association

22

Agelasto, ’62.

Richard B. Sessoms, associate director of
development at Washington and Lee
University, has been named director of
alumni programs at W&L, effective July 1.

Sessoms will also serve as executive
secretary of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, Inc.

He succeeds William C. Washburn, who
is retiring as alumni secretary after 25 years
in that post. Washburn will be moving to the
University’s office of development where he
will serve as an associate director and will be
involved primarily in the area of estate
planning.

Announcement of Sessoms’ appointment
was made jointly by Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson and G. Russell
Ladd III of Mobile, Ala., president of the
W&L Alumni Board.

The announcement was made during the
annual meeting of the W&L alumni in May.

‘‘We are quite pleased that Dick Sessoms
has agreed to accept this new appointment
within the University and are confident that
he will be as successful as the director of
alumni programs as he was with his
development duties during the final stages of
our development program,’’ said Wilson in
announcing the appointment.

Sessoms joined the development office
staff at Washington and Lee in 1980.

Richard B. Sessoms (left), new director of alumni programs, with incoming Alumni Board President Peter

 

A graduate of Hampden-Sydney College,
he was previously associate director of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges from 1978 until 1980 and was for
15 years prior to that an officer of the
Colonial Williamsburg Foundation.

Formerly a writer for the Roanoke Times,
Sessoms was sports information director and
athletic business manager at Virginia
Military Institute in Lexington from 1960
until 1963 when he joined the Colonial
Williamsburg staff as a press bureau staff
writer. He also served as manager of
broadcast services, assistant director of
public relations, and director of special
events at Williamsburg.

Sessoms is currently president of the
Historic Lexington Foundation and serves as
faculty adviser to the W&L chapter of Phi
Gamma Delta social fraternity. He is former
president and board member of the Old
Dominion Chapter of the Public Relations
Society of America and a former member of
the Williamsburg-James City County School
Board.

Sessoms is married to the former Sarah
Drake of Lexington, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. G. Francis Drake. Dr. Drake is a

professor of French at W&L. The Sessomses

have two daughters, Katherine, 18, and
Sarah, 16.

 

 

 

 

Thank You, Bill and Libby

The following citation was presented to Bill
Washburn at his last Alumni Association
meeting on May 14. He and his wife, Eliza-
beth, were also given gold watches, gifts of
the Alumni Board of Directors.

Twenty-five years ago, in the spring of
1958, William C. Washburn, Class of 1940,
returned to his alma mater to succeed H. K.
(“‘Cy’’) Young as Executive Secretary of
the Washington and Lee University Alumni
Association. Since that time he has served
in this important position with a dedication
and selflessness that have earned for him
the gratitude and affection of thousands of
alumni.

He assumed office during the presidency
of Francis P. Gaines and leaves it during
that of John D. Wilson. His service as
Alumni Secretary has thus spanned two en-
tire presidencies—those of Fred C. Cole
and Robert E. R. Huntley—and coin-
cided with a period of unprecedented growth
and change throughout the University.

During his twenty-five year tenure in
office the number of alumni more than
doubled; and at the same time alumni in-
volvement in University affairs has signifi-
cantly increased, from assistance in stu-
dent recruitment and the development pro-
gram to direct nomination of members of
the Board of Trustees. Innovations have
been made to bring alumni more closely in
touch with the University, as in the creation
of special three-day conferences, the ex-
pansion of class reunions, and the estab-
lishment of an alumni college.

A much-needed alumni house, opened
early during this eventful period, has be-
come the center for a host of University
activities as well as the location of offices
responsible for maintaining records on an
increasingly large and mobile body of
alumni. The immensity of this enterprise
and the success with which it has been met
are suggested by the growth of the alumni
magazine, the University’s principal means
of communicating with alumni, from a
quarterly to a journal now appearing seven
times a year and reaching more than seven-
teen thousand readers, and during the same
period the dramatic increase in alumni giv-
ing to the University of more than one
thousand percent.

 

 

All of these developments have been
part of an extraordinary period in Wash-
ington and Lee’s history, and in all of them
Bill Washburn has played a role that merits
high praise. Over the years he has compiled
an encyclopedic knowledge of alumni and
their families, seemingly drawing at will on
an inexhaustible fund of information as if
his mind were a computerized alumni file.
He has also developed such an understand-
ing relationship with alumni that he is
among the first—sometimes the very first—
to hear their complaints or grievances, pa-
tiently listening to expressions of anger or
frustration over whatever concern they
have about Washington and Lee and thus
becoming an invaluable conduit through
which alumni views may reach the Univer-
sity.

Throughout these years in which alum-
ni generosity has made possible the un-
paralleled strides of the University, Bill
Washburn’s warm, prompt letters of ap-
preciation, almost invariably accompanied
by personal notes, have frequently been the
first expressions of gratitude alumni have
received for their gifts. Day in and day out,

 

Bill and Libby Washburn were honored by W&L alumni during spring reunions in May.

 

at times without vacation, he has cheer-
fully devoted himself to work that is often
unglamorous and little noted, but crucial to
the continuing success of the University.

In much of this work he has enjoyed the
indispensable help of his remarkable wife,
Elizabeth, who is known as Libby to every-
one but Bill and whose innumerable contri-
butions to Washington and Lee are no less
deserving of thanks than his. Together they
have traveled thousands of miles across the
nation, visited scores of cities and alumni
chapters, entertained hundreds of alumni
and their families. Both at home and away
they have represented Washington and Lee
with an unfailing cordiality that has renewed
and strengthened the ties to the University
of alumni throughout the country.

In recognition of their exceptional serv-
ice to Washington and Lee University,
members of the Board of Directors of the
Alumni Association, past and present,
commend William Washburn for his out-
standing work as Alumni Secretary during
the past quarter of a century and express to
his wife, Elizabeth, their profound grati-
tude for her loyal and generous support.

 

 

 

|

23

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who will attend Washington and Lee and every other American
college through the year 2000 is now born and living somewhere in
this country or abroad. We may not yet know their names, but they
are already born. And they are fewer in number than they were in
the late seventies when a long, steady increase came to a close.

Now the decrease is well under way and it will describe a 26-
percent drop in the next decade alone. We have had nothing like
this in our national experience. Twenty-six percent! And that is the

 

. . we must ask ourselves the right
questions and do our best to answer them
clearly. I take it to be my first obligation to the
Board, to the faculty and to the Alumni
Association, to ask the right questions as
intelligently and responsibly as I can.

 

average for the entire nation. When you concentrate only on the 15
states from which almost all of our freshmen now come, the rate is
even more precipitous, something approaching 35 percent.

These are sobering projections. And they must be seen in the
context of still more sobering trends. Take, for example, the shift
from private to public colleges. Thirty years ago half of our college
enrollments in this country were in private institutions. Today only
20 percent are so enrolled. Will the shift continue? We don’t know,
but we must be concerned about the possibility. Twenty years ago
(to change the example) 65 percent of our collegiate enrollments
were male and 35 percent female. Now 52 percent of our
enrollments are female and 48 percent male.

To add further to the context of our concern, consider the
following: only 20 percent of the young people who take the college
board examinations score above 450 on the mathematical and verbal
aptitude tests (900 total). Only 3 percent score above 600 on both.
Washington and Lee now enrolls students whose aptitude scores
place them in the upper 8-10 percent. There will be fewer and fewer
of these students in the 15-year period we now have entered upon
and the competition for them will be very severe indeed. Even a
revolution in our secondary schools will not markedly change these
numbers or the potential consequences of them for the quality and
strength of Washington and Lee. To put only one face upon them,
if one were to translate a decline in enrollment equal to the national
decline in applicants and then apply today’s tuition and fees,
Washington and Lee would suffer an annual loss of $3,828,000.

So we must ask ourselves the right questions and do our best to
answer them clearly. I take it to be my first obligation to the Board,
to the faculty and to the Alumni Association, to ask the right
questions as intelligently and responsibly as I can. A parallel
obligation is to reach out to make certain that the right people are
addressing those questions and that we formulate acceptable
answers to them.

—Can we expand our share of the college-going population?
—Can we expand our share of the upper 10 percent?
—Can we expect the entire college-going cohort to expand

(approximately 50 percent of American high school
graduates now continue)?

—What will it cost us in the quality of our students if we are
determined to maintain our present size?

—If we are to reduce our enrollments which programs could we
curtail with least damage to our community and our
intellectual life?

—What critical mass is required to sustain the present range of
courses now offered throughout the College and the School
of Commerce?

—Can we reasonably expect to shift the geographic base of our
applicants (from the Northeast, say, to the far Northwest)?

—Can we reasonably expect to enroll much larger numbers of
minority students over the next decade?

—What impact will the decline in 18- to 24-year-olds have
upon the quality and quantity of students seeking admission
to law schools?

—What if we are compelled to conclude that we should extend
coeducation from the law school to the undergraduate schools
of the University?

LI

These are but a few of the questions we must now begin to
ponder and, of course, the most difficult one I’ve stated last. It is a
question many of you would rather not hear, but it has to be asked
and all the sub-questions associated with it must also be asked and
carefully thought through.

—What would coeducation in the undergraduate programs cost

Washington and Lee?

(1) What impact would it have upon the way we teach and
learn?

(2) What would it take away from the rhythm of this
place, a rhythm that has slowly developed over more
than two centuries?

(3) What influence would it have upon our traditions?

(4) What would it cost us in alumni loyalty and support?

(5) What would it do to our claim that we represent a
distinctive choice for young people, especially in
conjunction with our sister colleges in the region?

(6) What would it do to our current resource alignments,
especially in athletics, housing, fraternity life, and
staffing patterns?

 

. . anyone who proposes seminal change in
a successful institution bears a heavy burden of
rationalizing why the change is necessary or
desirable.

 

These are all very difficult questions. My obligation, as I’ve
earlier stated, is to pose them and the other questions too and to
pose them responsibly and to avoid prejudging the answers. And I
intend to do that to the best of my ability. When I came before the
Board last summer I was naturally asked about my attitude toward
coeducation. I replied that I was interested in Washington and Lee
because it is a university of the first rank. I also said that anyone
who proposes seminal change in a successful institution bears a
heavy burden of rationalizing why the change is necessary or
desirable. That is my attitude and I want to state it as clearly as I
possibly can.

I also stated at that time that I admired this institution and the
Board of Trustees for the earlier decisions on coeducation because
they seemed to me then courageous acts in the face of what could
well have been a fad accompanied by a huge bandwagon effect.
One prestigious institution after another, all within a decade of one
another, decided to abandon single-sex constitutions. The ‘‘fad’’
soon became something quite different. Indeed when my Oxford
College, Exeter (founded in 1314), admitted women in the mid-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we serve not simply
institution, but one that transcends that

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W,
@

Gazette

Watt To Retire As Dean Of The College a at End of 1983-84 Academic Year. ee

William J. Watt, dean of the College at
Washington and Lee since 1971, has
announced his intention to resign from that
position at the end of the 1983-84 academic
year.

Watt will return to full-time teaching as
professor of chemistry in the fall of 1985. He
will spend the 1984-85 academic year
studying at Oxford University in England
while on leave of absence from W&L.

_ The announcement of Watt’s decision
was made in May by Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson. In notifying the
faculty of Watt’s intention, Wilson praised
Watt’s contributions to the University.

“I can testify to the universal respect

(Dean Watt) has earned for himself, the
College (W&L’s arts and sciences division),
and the University in his work away from

_ Lexington—in the Commonwealth to be

sure, but in national and foreign settings as
well. . We owe him more than we can
ever oe Wilson said. | _

Wilson announced the formation of a

_ nine-member Dean’s Search Committee to

seek Watt’s successor and noted that the -

committee will conduct a national search in

order ‘‘to seek the best Possiole appointment
_ for this vital position.””

__ A member of the Washington and Lee

faculty since 1955, Watt was named assistant

_ dean of the College i in 1966. Two years later
he was named associate dean.

During his deanship, Watt has been a _

_ member of several important national and
regional organizations. In July he will __
preside as chairman over the annual meeting

of the National Dean’s Conference in
Stillwater, Okla. He is former president of

_ the Conference of Academic Deans of the
Southern States and has been an active

participant in the American Association of

_ Higher Education conferences.

Watt is a native of Carbondale, Ill. He
received his bachelor’s degree in chemistry
from the University of Illinois and his
master’s and Ph.D. from Cornell.

_ He taught at Cornell and at Davidson
prior to joining the W&L faculty. He has
been a participant in the Robert E. Lee

_ Research Program at W&L and has
sponsored National Science Foundation

_ research grants for Washington and Lee

undergraduates. He has been a research

William J Watt

participant at the Oak a National —

Laboratory, a visiting professor for an N NSF

Institute for oe Scl dol sae at

— at the ta Ly
visiting. professor of chemistry at U.Va.

_ Active in civic affairs in ‘Lexington, Watt _

a ae

wide range of scholarly programs, ranging —
from fellowships and scholarships to
lectureships.
Composed of various historic documents -
and memorabilia associated with the early —

history of Washington and Lee, the abt |
the Boatwright Rare Book Room includes the

original letter written by George Washington

to the trustees of Liberty Hall Academy i in

which Washington agreed to give the

academy a generous bequest of James River
_ Canal Stock, thereby rescuing the: eee
: school from financial ruin.

_‘*Without question that is the most _

crucial historic document for wanes - / _ -
and Lee University, and this is the first time =
the document has been on display in many _

years,’’ noted W&L history profess
Taylor Sanders, who organized the ex

_ with Richard Oram, ae collection
_ librarian.

- i was the Washington bea .

Le other items. on dis :

. commonplace book in whi
_ _ Lee chee a daty a
op vn and -

is past president of the Rockbridge Chapter _ _ “ on oe
of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, former — - ,
chairman of the Rockbridge Library Board, a

- past president of the Rockbridge Concert __
_ Theatre Series, and a former member of the

vestry of R. E. Lee Po Church.

Exhibit a :
Cincinnati Society
An exhibit tracing the | of the

Society of the Cincinnati and its connection /

with Washington and Lee University has"
been on se) | in the > University See at
WSL.

The of the Co os
by veterans of the Revolutionary War and
composed solely of the male descendants of
Continental Army officers, celebrated its
bicentennial in May.

The of the Cincinnati supports a

| Olt te Society of

the Cincinnati throughout the country, more
than 50 are alumni of Washington and Lee.

Six early alumni of Liberty Hall Academy

were among the society’s original members.

Sanders and John L. P. Sullivan Jr. are

the authors of a paper entitled ‘‘The

Washington and Lee—Society of the
Cincinnati Connection’’ that accompanies the
current display.

In that paper, the authors trace the
formation of the Society of the Cincinnati in
1783 by younger officers serving under —

a

 

de Gazette

General Washington.
The aim of the society was ‘‘to © -
perpetuate the fellowship that had grown up

among the brother officers of the Continental —

Line’’ during the Revolutionary War.
The society is named for the Roman

hero, Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus. In 1848,

Washington College received the Cincinnati
Fund, which totaled some $25,000. That
gift, plus the bequests of General |
Washington and ‘‘Jockey John’’ Robinson (a
Revolutionary veteran who admired
Washington) comprised the entire
endowment of Washington College until
Lee’s presidency.

That endowment of Washington College
was among the first of the Society of the :
Cincinnati’s scholarly ventures.

Other instances of the long-standing
relationship between the society and
Washington and Lee include the presence of

a ‘‘Cincinnati Professor of Mathematics’’ at
W&L and the fact that the University still _
awards a modest cash prize, the Cincinnati
Award, for the best student essay on
| American history each year. _

_ The exhibit will be on display i in the |
— — et August.

Classroom ae :

When i isa disaoon not a a
| The answer? went it is a work of art,
aly _
Andi in Apdl the art ba in
‘Washington and Lee’s duPont Galley was a
classroom. And vice versa.

The duPont Gallery oieene was an art”

| installation which, explained duPont Gallery

director Debora Rindge, seeks to transform —
and redefine the traditional gallery 0 oC
museum space. _

_ “*Rather than treating the wien asa
utilitarian environment which serves solely
as a showplace for art objects, the
installation incorporates the gallery into the

work of art, making it an inherent element of |

the piece,’’ said Rindge, an instructor in art
history at Washington and Lee.

A major feature of the duPont Gallery
installation was a series of blackboards on
which six Washington and Lee professors
made notations that they would routinely
make during one of their lectures.

The professor-artists who created the
blackboards represented a variety of subjects,
ranging from music to chemistry to lacrosse.
Gallery visitors were treated to visual
lectures on organic chemistry, plans for a

28

“The duPont -— art installation incorporated blackboards.

Co lowe victory, and a medieval |
_ method of musical notation.

_ “Blackboard markings share

| ede which are common to

paintings, prints, and drawings,’’ observed —

_ Rindge. ‘‘The blackboard is flat and is often

filled with lines, shapes, symbols, and -
colors—the basic vocabulary of two- _
dimensional art forms.

- “Seen i in the traditional ccoo. the

marked blackboard i iS appreciated only for its
a function as a support to the lecture. When
the blackboard i is removed from its practical
/ context and viewed i in the context of an art
gallery, it is seen primarily for its visual —
forms rather than its informational content.””
-__- Rindge and W&L assistant art professor
Larry Stene recruited the professors to.
become blackboard artists.

‘“We chose professors for their. potential

in creating visually interesting markings
based on their particular subject,’’ Stene

explained. ‘‘Each of the professors we

_ approached was more than happy to

participate. They took their work quite

seriously.’’

The six professor-artists whose

blackboards appeared in the installation were

James T. Cook, assistant professor of music;
Chuck O’Connell, assistant professor of

_ physical education and assistant lacrosse

coach; Harrison Pemberton Jr., professor of
philosophy; Robert Pour, instructor in
mathematics; James Keith Shillington,
professor of chemistry; and, Pamela H.
Simpson, associate professor of art history.
Though central to the installation, the

 

blackboards were complemented by student

desks, a podium, a clock, and assorted other
furnishings that would pteally be found i in

a aon

Turner autobiography |

Charles W. Turner’s 36-year teaching
career at Washington and Lee is chronicled
in his autobiography, A Straw In The Wind,
published earlier this year and available _

_ through the W&L Bookstore.

Turner retired in 1982 as professor of
history at W&L. A native of Frederick Hall
in rural Louisa County, he is the author of -
several books, many of which pertain to the

history of Rockbridge County.

The Turner autobiography can be Oded
from the W&L Bookstore. The book is

_ priced at $8.

Faculty activities

e A biology textbook written by
Washington and Lee professor Cleveland P.
Hickman Jr. was honored by the Chicago
Book Clinic Annual Exhibit. The third
edition of the volume, entitled Biology of
Animals published in 1982 by the C. V.
Mosby Co., was cited by the judges in the
Text/Reference category for its exceptional
handling of complex subject matter as well
as its design and illustrations.

@ James J. Donaghy, professor of

 

 

in The
Summer Institute at

30

 

 

| Soe the b Wiekipad
ces — The fom

1 2, publisted | in fees

The Glasgow Visiting Lecarship is part

of the Glasgow Endowment Progr:
established at Washington and Lee t

1960 bequest of Arthur Grahan Gly and
designed to ‘ — the art of sees

by pen and tongue.”’
Past Glasgow visitors have inelided |

novelists Katherine Anne Porter, Robert Penn >

Warren, and Walker Percy; dramatists
Edward Albee and Tom Stoppard; and poets
Robert Lowell, Howard Nemerov, and James
Dickey.

Mednick Grant
to Machado

Barry F. Machado, associate professor of
history at Washington and Lee, has been
awarded a research grant from the Maurice
L. Mednick Fund for study during the
summer of 1983.

The Mednick Fund is administered by the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges (VFIC), a joint fund-raising

Barry F Machado

‘Motor Company’s attempts to give the ©

United States self-sufficiency in the
production of crude rubber by establishing i in
the Amazon Valley of Brazil what the
company hoped would be the world’s largest
rubber plantation. The study, which

. ‘Machado has pursued over the past two

summers by conducting research in the Ford

_ archives, blends business history with

diplomatic history since U.S. foreign oe

was involved.

_ A native of Massachusetts, Machado
received both his master’s and Ph.D. from ©
Northwestern. He joined the faculty at

Washington and Lee in 1971.

- The Mednick Memorial Fund was created -
in 1967 after the accidental death of a young __
Norfolk industrialist. His family and business

as sociates biegamacee the fund to a |

mdaae the fund to”
> p ‘ofessional development of
hers and improve their =
rough grants for research and.
y, and to assist highly — -
dy a in the coppers

universities in Virginia, including |

‘Washington and Lee.

‘Booth, formerly director of be
relations and assistant professor of
journalism at W&L from 1946 through 1950,
received the honorary degree during
Hampden-Sydney’s commencement exercises
inMay.

Politics speakers

With the support of the Witt Fund, a
number of prominent speakers appeared in
the senior seminar on Strategic Intelligence
and National Defense Policy taught by ©
politics professor Milton Colvin.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Those speakers included Lt. General Paul
Gorman, assistant to the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff; Lt. General Sam

& Gazette

Wilson (Ret.), former deputy director of the
Central Intelligence Agency and former
director of the Defense Intelligence Agency;
Ambassador Joseph Twinan, currently
Diplomat in Residence at the University of
Virginia; Gen. Richard Stilwell (Ret.),
Deputy Undersecretary of Defense; Professor
George Grayson of the College of William
and Mary; and, the Honorable Harold Josib,
former senior U.S. diplomat in Libya.

 

 

Campus speakers

@ Patrick Ottaway, a British
archaeologist and field officer for the York
Archaeological Trust, presented a series of
illustrated lectures on the campus in April. In
his lectures Ottaway surveyed recent
archaeological discoveries made in England
and examined important archaeological
excavation in the city of York.

e@ Arkady Shevchenko, a former Soviet
ambassador to the United Nations, told a
Washington and Lee audience in April that
Americans should understand ‘‘that the
Soviet leadership is dangerous.”’

He added that there should be a dialogue
between the Soviet Union and the U.S.
because “‘these are the two biggest nations
on the face of the earth and they will either
destroy humanity or save humanity from the
nuclear war. . . . There are many areas for
negotiations but they should go on with a
clear understanding of what the Soviets are
and what are their goals.’’

Shevchenko was the highest ranking
Soviet official ever to defect to the West
when he walked away from his position as
Ambassador and Under Secretary General of
the United Nations in 1978. He spoke as part
of Contact ’83, the University’s speaker
symposium.

 

Arkady Shevchenko
32

e Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Richard
Howard presented The Glasgow Lectures for
1983 in May. Howard’s series of five
lectures was entitled *‘Ante-Modernism or
The Politics of Ecstasy.”’

He also gave a reading from his own
poetry during his week in residence on the
campus.

e@ Sidney Rittenberg, who was an adviser
to the Chinese government for 30 years,
warned that the United States has entered a
dangerous period in its relationship with
China because of the government’s failure to
listen to its own experts on China policy during
a speech in May.

Rittenberg’s lecture was sponsored by the
East Asian Studies Program at W&L.

An American citizen who spent 33 years
in China and has been considered by many to
have been the most powerful foreigner ever
to work in Mao Tse-Tung’s government,
he called the U.S. government’s decision in
April to grant political asylum to Chinese
tennis star Hu Na ‘‘a resounding slap in the
face to the people of Peking.”’

e@ Professor Armold Heiser, the director
of the A. J. Dyer Observatory at Vanderbilt
University, presented two lectures in May
under the sponsorship of the physics
department. Heiser was speaking as the
Harlow Shapley Visiting Lecturer of the
American Astronomical Society.

e Dr. Heidrun Schorcht, professor of
English at Jena University in the German
Democratic Republic (East Germany),
presented two lectures in May under the
sponsorship of the department of German
and the University Lectures Committee.

e M. Jamie Ferreira, professor of
religious studies at the University of
Virginia, spoke on ‘‘Faith and Doubt: A
Philosophical Approach’’ in May under
sponsorship of the University Lectures

 

Sidney Rittenberg

Committee and the department of
philosophy.

@ Retired Maj. Gen. George S. Patton
was the guest speaker at the ROTC
Commissioning Ceremony in June. Patton,
the son of the famous World War II
Commander, is a distinguished veteran of
more than 34 years of military service.

 

 

Cramming causes
negative feelings

College students who attempt to cram a
semester’s worth of study into a frantic all-
nighter in order to prepare for an exam are
liable to wind up disliking the subject they
are studying.

That, at least, represents part of the
findings of a series of experiments conducted
recently by a Washington and Lee
psychology professor and two former W&L
students.

David G. Elmes, professor of psychology
at W&L, directed the experiments with Craig
J. Dye, ’82, of Buchanan, Va., and N.
Jeffrey Herdelin, ’81, of Haddonfield, N.J.
Their findings were reported in an article
entitled ‘‘What is the role of affect in the
spacing effect?’’ in a recent issue of Memory
& Cognition.

The article reports on a series of
experiments that explored the negative
affective feelings that accompany certain
types of memorization tasks.

In their experiments, the W&L team used
laboratory procedures to mimic “‘cramming’’
and found that the student memorizers in the
tests had both poorer retention and more
negative feelings toward the material than in
more efficient memorization strategies.

““Most of the people in our experiments

 

Maj. Gen. George S. Patton

found the cramming situation, in which they
were bombarded with words to remember at
short intervals, was very distasteful.
Moreover, they also found the material they
were cramming was distasteful,’’ explains
Elmes.

‘It is generally accepted that retention is
not nearly as good in a cramming situation as
it is when the material is spaced more widely
over time. What may also happen is that in
addition to lack of long-term retention from
such cramming sessions, students may wind
up disliking the material they are attempting
to learn.”’

On the other hand, Elmes and his
colleagues have found that there are some
Situations under which effective
memorization can result from cramming.

‘“When the subjects are put under stress,
relating to time or some other pressure, our
data show that the cramming method can be
somewhat effective,’’ said Elmes. ‘‘But it is
still never as effective as distributing the
learning over time.”’

The researchers’ advice to students
confronted with too much to learn in too
short a time span?

“If you’ve got to cram, then go ahead
and cram,’’ said Elmes. ‘‘It may work in the
short run, but over the long term the
retention will not be as good and your
feelings for the subject matter may be quite
negative.”’

The participation of Dye and Herdelin in
Elmes’ ongoing research on human memory
was supported by Robert E. Lee Research
Grants.

 

I

neon

Honors, awards

@ Two 1983 Washington and Lee
graduates—Scott W. Hall of Danville, Va.,
and Michael Streiff of Gainesville, Fla.—
have been awarded Fulbright Scholarships
for graduate study in Europe.

Both Hall and Streiff will use their
scholarships to study in Germany. Hall will
be studying at the Institute of Neurobiology
in Julich while Streiff plans to study
microbiology at the Pettenkopfer Institute in
Munich.

@ Nancy A. Hulett of Short Hills, N.J.,
and Seth C. Prager of Rockville, Md., were
the two winners in the annual Burks Moot
Court Competition among first-year law
students. Hulett won the oral argument
portion of the competition while Prager’s
brief won top honors in that category.

@ Bennett L. Ross of Huntington,

W.Va., president of the student government
at Washington and Lee, was presented the
Frank Johnson Gilliam Award at the annual
senior class banquet in May.

The Gilliam Award is presented annually
to the student who has made the most
valuable and conspicuous contributions to
life at W&L. The recipient is selected by
non-graduating student government
representatives.

Ross received his bachelor of science in
commerce degree in June. A business
administration major, he will remain at
Washington and Lee next year when he joins
the University’s admissions office as an
admissions counselor.

In addition to serving as president of the
Executive Committee, the student
government body, Ross earlier served as
secretary to the Executive Committee. He
has been elected to both Who’s Who and
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
leadership fraternity founded at Washington
and Lee and has been active in several other
Campus activities, including the Student
Recruitment Committee.

© Robert E. R. Huntley, president of
Washington and Lee from 1968 until his
retirement from that position earlier this
year, has been awarded the third annual
William Webb Pusey III Award for
outstanding service and dedication to the
University.

The Pusey Award was created in 1981 by
the Student Executive Committee of the
University. It is named in honor of Dr.
William Webb Pusey III, who served

 

Bennett Ross, ’83, receives the Gilliam Award from W&L President John D. Wilson.

Washington and Lee as professor, dean, and
acting president. He was on the faculty from
1939 until his retirement in 1981. Pusey was
the first recipient of the award.

e The Ring-tum Phi, Washington and
Lee’s student newspaper, presented its
annual awards to two students and one
member of the University’s administration in
May.

The awards went to Farris P. Hotchkiss,
director of University relations and
development at W&L; Morgan Griffith, a
third-year law student from Salem, Va.; and
David W. Stevens Jr., a senior from
Annapolis, Md.

@ Washington and Lee’s chapters of Beta
Gamma Sigma, the national honor fraternity
in business administration, and Omicron
Delta Epsilon, the national honor society in
economics, held their initiation ceremonies
on the W&L campus in May.

In addition to initiating nine
undergraduates and one faculty member, the
Omicron Delta Epsilon chapter made two
distinguished W&L alumni, Almand R.
Coleman and James C. Treadway, honorary
initiates.

An alumnus of W&L and former faculty
member, Coleman had been serving as a
distinguished lecturer in accounting at the
University until his retirement from that
position in June. Treadway is a 1967
graduate of the W&L School of Law.
Previously a partner in the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro &
Morin, Treadway was nominated by
President Reagan in 1982 and confirmed by

33

& oo Gazette

 

ly

The Ring-tum Phi Award winners with President John D. Wilson. From left, Farris P. Hotchkiss, director

 

  

 

of development and university relations; Morgan Griffith, ’83L, of Salem, Va.; President Wilson; and

David W. Stevens, ’84, of Annapolis, Md.

the U.S. Senate to be a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. His
term expires June 1987.

David N. Wiest, assistant professor of
accounting at W&L, was the faculty initiate
into Omicron Delta Epsilon. The student
initiates were seniors Joseph Lanier Edge of
La Grange, Ga.; David Mason Ellerbe of
Latta, S.C.: David A. Freeman of Mobile,
Ala.; Todd W. Meyer of Garnerville, N.Y.;
Herbert M. Ponder III of Macon, Ga.; David
W. Tyson of Fayetteville, N.C.; and, juniors
Jerome C. Philpott of Englewood, Colo. and
Marion E. Wood of Roanoke.

The Beta of Virginia Chapter of Beta
Gamma Sigma initiated Bruce H. Herrick,
professor of economics and head of the
economics department, from the W&L
faculty while the student initiates were
seniors Todd C. Alexander of Emmaus, Pa.,
Steven A. Daub of Watchung, N.J., and
Stephen K. Greene of Mountain Brook, Ala.,
and junior David W. Killenbeck of
Spencerport, N.Y.

@ Douglas W. Lessley, a Washington
and Lee senior from Charleston, W.Va., was
presented the Outstanding Cadet Award in
the University’s ROTC program in May.

Robert G. Ortiz, a senior from Hopewell,
Va., received the Major Ronald O.
Scharnberg Memorial Award, which
recognizes the W&L cadet who most nearly
typifies the Washington and Lee tradition of
the citizen-scholar-soldier while David P.
Ridlon of West Hartford, Conn., won the
George C. Marshall ROTC Award awarded
to the senior who demonstrates those
leadership and scholastic qualities that
epitomized the career of General Marshall.

@ Six Washington and Lee University

34

students were honored by the W&L
department of English in May. Mark C.
Jenkins, a senior from Richmond, received
the Jean Amory Wornom Award for
Distinguished Critical Writing for a paper on
Henry James’s The American.

Three students won George A. Mahan
Awards in Creative Writing. Jackson R.
Sharman of Tuscaloosa, Ala., received the
senior prose award for a story entitled
*°33'4,’’ and Charles W. Alcorn of Victoria,
Tex., won the junior award for a story called
‘SA Rite of Passage.’’ The poetry award went
to Phillip Ray Welch, a senior from
Lexington, for a poem, ‘‘What Comes to Us.”’

Departmental scholarships were awarded

James C. Treadway, ’67L

to David W. Ames, a junior from Virginia
Beach, who received the Catherine Houston
Campbell Scholarship in English literature,
and John Scott Doyle, a junior from Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., who won the Elizabeth B.
Garrett Scholarship in English.

e B. Scott Tilley, a Washington and Lee
sophomore from Richmond, Va., is the 1983
winner of the Virginia Society of the
Cincinnati Award, which is presented each
year to the author of the best essay in
American military history or some other
subject in colonial, revolutionary, or pre-
Civil War history of the United States.

Tilley’s winning paper was entitled
"* “. . . And God Forgive Me for the Order’:
The Battle of New Market and the Charge of
the VMI Cadets.”’

 

 

 

Faculty promotions

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for seven members of the
Washington and Lee University faculty.

The promotions were approved by the
University’s Board of Trustees earlier this
month and become effective September 1.

Four faculty members have been
promoted from associate professor to full
professor. They are Edwin D. Craun
(English), Harold C. Hill (German), James
M. Phemister (law), and W. Lad Sessions
(philosophy).

Promoted to associate professor from
assistant are Robert J. de Maria (journalism),
John J. Wielgus (biology), and Thomas J.
Ziegler (drama).

Craun has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1971.
From 1977 to 1981 he served as assistant and
then associate dean of the College (of arts
and sciences). A 1967 graduate of Wheaton
College, he received his Ph.D. from
Princeton. He has been a Woodrow Wilson
Fellow (1967-69), a fellow of the
Southeastern Institute of Medieval and
Renaissance Studies (1976), and a visiting
fellow and adjunct tutor at University
College, Oxford (1981-82).

Hill joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1970 and has taught German,
Russian, and Chinese. He received his
bachelor’s degree from George Washington
University and both his master’s degree and
Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins. He served as
director of W&L’s East Asian Studies
program from 1976 to 1980. He is the
winner of a ‘‘Medal of Achievement’’ from
the Institute of Chinese Language and

Literature in Taiwan. He has been president
of the Virginia Consortium for Asian Studies
and is the author of several articles in
scholarly journals.

Phemister has been on the School of Law
faculty since 1974. He received his

undergraduate degree from Purdue University

and his law degree from Northwestern. From
1969 to 1974 he was an associate with the
Cleveland law firm of Squire, Sanders &

Dempsey. He has served as associate reporter

to the Virginia Supreme Court (1975-80) and
is currently reporter to the Virginia Supreme
Court on Jury Instruction. He was executive
director of the Virginia Association of
Defense Attorneys from 1979 to 1981. At
W&L he has been a faculty adviser to several
student organizations, including moot court
teams. He is the author of ‘‘ Virginia Model
Jury Instructions-Civil’’ (1980) and two
supplements.

Sessions has been a member of the W&L
faculty since 1971. He received his B.A.
from the University of Colorado, his M.A.
from Columbia, and his Ph.D. from Yale.
He studied at Mansfield College, Oxford
University, in 1967-68. He has been a
member of the faculty for the Washington
and Lee Institute for Executives and served
as chairman of the American Philosophical
Association’s Western Division meeting in
1983. He is the author of seven articles as
well as several reviews in scholarly journals.

de Maria joined the faculty in 1977. He
received his bachelor’s degree from St. John
Fisher College and his master’s from
Syracuse University. He previously was
instructor of communications media and
director of the media center at Mississippi
University for Women (1974-77) in
Columbus, Miss. He is faculty manager of
W&L’s campus radio and television stations.
He is on the board of directors of the Blue
Ridge Chapter of the Society of Professional
Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi. He is the author
of three articles in professional journals.

Wielgus has been on the W&L faculty
since 1977. He received his B.A. from the
University of Illinois, Chicago Circle, and
both his M.S. and Ph.D. from Northwestern.
He was the recipient of a Glenn Grant from
W&L in 1978 to conduct research into
insects and has written seven articles on his
insect research for scholarly journals. He is
on the board of advisors of the Rockbridge
Mental Health Clinic.

Ziegler has been with Washington and
Lee since 1976. He received his B.A. from
Lewis College and his M.A. from Northern
Illinois University. He previously served as
an instructor at the University of Toledo and

 

John M. McDaniel

as assistant professor at the College of Virgin
Islands. He is the author of six articles,
numerous papers, and a published play
entitled Weeds. He has also written three
plays which have been presented and has
designed lighting and sets for numerous
productions in the W&L University Theatre.

 

 

Archaeology project
focuses on mountain hollow

A 183-acre mountain hollow in western
Rockbridge County where Washington and
Lee archaeologists have conducted research
has been added to the Virginia Landmarks
Register and has been nominated for the
National Register of Historic Places.

The Washington and Lee archaeologists
have been working on the Anderson Hollow
Archaeological District since September of
1980 and nominated the area to the Virginia
Historic Landmarks Commission in May.
Located on the southeastern slope of North
Mountain, the hollow contains seven
different archaeological sites.

John M. McDaniel, associate professor of
anthropology and director of the W&L
archaeology laboratory, said he had been
notified recently that the Virginia Historic
Landmarks Commission has approved the
nomination of the Anderson Hollow and has
forwarded the proper documents to the
keeper of the National Register for
consideration as an addition to the National
Register of Historic Places.

McDaniel said this represents the first
time that an entire mountain hollow has been
approved for nomination to the Historic
Register.

“We feel the approval of the Anderson
Hollow district represents a bold step toward
recognition of important sites occupied by
the common man in Virginia,’’ McDaniel
said, noting that most sites placed on the
National Register are associated either with
famous people or a specific event in the
history of the nation or the state.

‘This hollow and the many others like it
were not settled by famous people. Nor were
the homes that these people built impressive
structural monuments,’’ said McDaniel.
**However, an understanding of the cultural
adaptations these people made is critical to
an accurate understanding of life in western
Virginia during the 19th century.”’

There are five historic and two
prehistoric sites contained within the
Anderson Hollow. Occupation of the historic
sites was initiated in the early 19th century
while the two prehistoric sites within the
hollow are from the archaic period and were
probably occupied from 4,000 to 6,000 years
ago.

One of the most interesting aspects of the
project, said McDaniel, is that although five
of the sites were occupied concurrently in the
late 19th century, today no one lives in the
zone.

**This is characteristic of most of the
hollows in the area,’’ said McDaniel.
**Among the many provocative questions
that we hope to address in our continuing
research is what it was that stimulated,
maintained, and ultimately discouraged the
residents of the Anderson Hollow and others
like it.’’

The Washington and Lee archaeology
laboratory is currently analyzing the data
excavated from the Anderson Hollow while
also conducting excavation of 19th century
sites in two other nearby hollows.

McDaniel said that “‘primary credit is due
to the land owners, the Paul Andersons of
Rockbridge Baths, who supported the
nomination. We must also give credit to the
Virginia Landmarks Commission for
approving this unusual nomination; to the
many current residents of the area who have
extended their help; and, of course, to
Washington and Lee University, which has
supported the work.’’

He added that the work which allowed
the nomination of the Anderson Hollow was
conducted by Washington and Lee students
as part of the University’s courses in
archaeology.

35

 

 

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
 
  

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

charge by defending champion Lynchburg,
W&L’s golf team won the seventh annual

s seventh at 158.

       

 

1) was event I cme
" strokes better than Lynchburg.

oe

several years ne

 

       

playing one good

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:
:

 

 

 

College of Wooster, where he had a 72-hole
total of 324 and tied for 82nd place in the
120-player field.

 

 

Generals win
ODAC tennis

Washington and Lee won two singles
titles and swept all three doubles crowns to
win the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
tennis championships in April.

Senior Steve Denny (Bethesda, Md.) and
sophomore Andy Haring (Mansfield, Ohio)
won the No. 2 and No. 4 singles titles,
respectively, in the ODAC. In the doubles
Denny and junior Craig Cannon (Ocala, Fla.)
were victorious at the No. 1 position while
Haring teamed with junior Charlie Kalocsay
(Rye, N.Y.) to win at No. 2 doubles. Junior
Jim Irwin (Essex Falls, N.Y.) and freshman
Anthonie Frens (Eersel, The Netherlands)
won the No. 3 doubles.

The team title was W&L’s fifth in the
tournament’s seven-year history.

Denny and Cannon were selected to play
in the NCAA Division III tennis
championships at Albany, N.Y., in May.
Both players won their first round matches in
singles competition before losing in the
second round. As a doubles team, Denny and
Cannon lost in their opening round match.
Their participation marked the seventh time
W&L has been represented in the NCAA
championships.

W&L compiled a 7-14 record in dual
matches under fifth-year head coach Gary
Franke.

 

 

Baseball Generals
finish 9-14-2

Four all-Old Dominion Athlete
Conference players and an appearance in the
ODAC tournament highlighted Washington
and Lee’s 1983 baseball season.

Seniors Chris Cavalline (St. Marys,

Pa.), Jody Harris (Baltimore) and Jim Daly
(Columbus, Ohio) and sophomore Billy
White (Richmond) earned the all-ODAC
honors. Cavalline, who led the Generals with
a .407 batting average, was on the first team

 

Golf coach Buck Leslie with Old Dominion
Athletic Conference medalist Tim Webb.

 

Angus McBryde, ’84

while the other three were members of the
second unit.

The Generals participated in the four-
team ODAC tournament in April. Seeded
third in the tournament, the Generals lost 11-

 

6 to Eastern Mennonite in the first round.

In addition to Cavalline, the Generals’
offense was led by freshman outfielder Hugh
Finkelstein (Conyngham, Pa.) and junior
second baseman Kevin Golden (Selma, Va.).
White was the top pitcher for W&L with a 5-
2 record and a 3.86 earned run average in
53.7 innings.

Jim Murdock completed his second
season as W&L’s head coach.

 

 

McBryde races
into NCAAs

Junior Angus McBryde won two events
in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
track and field championships in April and
later became the third W&L athlete to
compete in the NCAA Division III track
championships.

McBryde, who qualified for the NCAA
meet in the 1500-meter run, finished 17th in
that national meet, which was held at North
Central College in Illinois.

The junior from Charlotte, N.C., won
both the 1500-meter and 5000-meter events
in the ODAC meet in which the Generals
placed fourth in team standings.

Sophomore Mark Pembroke (Shorewood,
Wis.) set a W&L record in the 800-meter run
with a time of 1:55.52. That earned
Pembroke second place in the ODAC meet.
Two other Generals who earned second place
honors were senior Gene Fellin (Hazelton,
Pa.) in the pole vault and junior Charlie
Alcorn (Victoria, Tex.) in the shot-put.

W&L compiled a 5-1 dual meet record
during the spring under head coach Norris
Aldridge.

 

 

Alumni run

Not to be outdone by the exploits of the
current student generation, a number of
W&L alumni participated in a reunion
weekend Fun Run in May.

Hugh Sproul, ’58, captured the five
kilometer race in a time of 28:18 ahead of
Doug Clelan, ’73, who finished second. In
the 10 kilometer event Ted Ritter, ’73L,
finished first with a time of 48:06 followed
by Don Fowler, ’58, and Bob Holland, ’63.

37

Chapter News

 

Farms.

LYNCHBURG—Chapter president G. Leyburn Mosby Jr., ’62, ’65L,
presents the 1983 Lynchburg Citation to Mr. and Mrs. Floyd D. Gottwald
Jr. of Richmond.

TIDEWATER. Featuring a sunny brisk day, the chapter held its
annual Oyster Roast on March 26, 1983, at the Bayville Farms.
Dickinson Phillips, ’76, president, Charles Lollar, vice president,
and John Richard, secretary-treasurer, were responsible for making
the splendid arrangements and on behalf of the chapter expressed
appreciation to Richard Burroughs, ’68, for again making the
Bayville Farms available. Of special interest during the afternoon
was the U.Va. vs N.C. State basketball game. A television set was
provided. Bill Washburn, alumni secretary, represented the
University.

LYNCHBURG. With great enthusiasm and a special flourish, the
chapter held a reception for Dr. John D. Wilson, president of
Washington and Lee University, at the Oakwood Country Club on
March 30, 1983. The occasion also saw the presentation of the
1983 Lynchburg Citation Award to Mr. and Mrs. Floyd D.
Gottwald. J. Leyburn Mosby, ’62, ’65L, president of the chapter,
presided at the meeting and after recognizing the special persons at
the head table called upon James W. Whitehead, secretary of the

38

TIDEWATER—A group of alumni and guests at the Oyster Roast at Bayville

 

 

 

 

TIDEWATER—Enjoying the Oyster Roast are Townsend Brown Jr., ’73, and
John H. Richard, ’70.

 

LYNCHBURG—President John D. Wilson with James F. Gallivan, ’51, and
Harold Whitman, president of Sweet Briar College.

University and curator of the Reeves Center, to make a few remarks
about Mr. and Mrs. Gottwald. The Gottwald family, a significant
benefactor of Washington and Lee, was instrumental in the
restoration of 30 University Place to house the Reeves Collection
and the establishment of the Gottwald Gallery. A handsome framed
certificate of appreciation was presented to the Gottwalds by
President Mosby. In the short business session Dr. Ed Calvert, "44,
reported for the nominating committee, and the new officers,
elected unanimously, were Mark Schewel, ’69, president; Tom
Pettyjohn, 68, vice president; and Stuart Fauber, ’70, secretary-
treasurer. Bert Schewel, ’41, was called upon to make his usual
humorous and well received State of the Chapter Report. After
expressing delight on behalf of the chapter for the outstanding
attendance of alumni and prominent guests, Mosby introduced Dr.
Wilson whose remarks about the strengths of Washington and Lee
and her future challenges were enthusiastically received. In
concluding the banquet meeting, Mosby presented a lovely brass
tray on behalf of the Lynchburg Chapter to Bill Washburn, °40,
retiring national alumni secretary.

 

ATLANTA—Among the guests at the reception for President John D. Wilson
were Charles Hurt Jr., 59, Frank Love, ’50, ’51L, Mrs. Clarke, and T. Hal
Clarke, ’38L.

NEW YORK—Shown with President John D. Wilson are Paul Perkins, ’74,
(left) and David L. Dowler, ’69.

ATLANTA. With the usual ‘‘Old South’’ warm hospitality, the
chapter held a reception for President John D. Wilson on April 13
at the Piedmont Driving Club, where over 200 alumni and guests
filled the ballroom. Charles R. Yates, ’70, chapter president,
presided over the meeting and introduced the special guests,
including representatives of several local preparatory schools and a
number from the University. Specifically recognized were: Beverly
(Bo) DeBose III, ’62, vice president; T. Hal Clarke, ’38, and
Thomas B. Branch III, ’58, ’60L, current University Trustees;
Charles D. Hurt Jr., ’59, current member of the Alumni Board of
Directors; and Richard A. Denny Jr., ’52, former president of the
Alumni Association; also recognized were Frank Love Jr., ’50,
president of the Georgia State Bar Association and Harold N. Hill,
Jr., 52, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia. President
Wilson with an acknowledged degree of sentimentality for the
heritage of General Lee told of the strengths of Washington and Lee
as contributing factors in his decision to accept the presidency. He

 

 

 

Ed

ATLANTA—Talking to President Wilson are Mrs. Heyward, Halcott G.
“‘Hack’’ Heyward, ’50, and Carolyn Saffold-Heyward, ’81L.

 

 

 

NEW YORK—Enjoying the reception at the New York Athletic Club are
President Wilson; Bruce Breimer, assistant headmaster at Collegiate School;
Mrs. Wilson; Richard H. Turrell, ’49, and Mrs. Turrell.

also mentioned the challenges which lie ahead and his eagerness
to get on with the job in full confidence of the continuing support of
the alumni family.

NEW YORK. The chapter held an outstanding reception in honor
of President and Mrs. John D. Wilson on April 15, 1983, at the
New York Athletic Club. Cocktails preceded a delicious roast beef
dinner. Chapter president, Paul Perkins, ’74, presided at the
meeting and made the introductions of the special guests. The
chapter was honored to have Trustee and Mrs. Ross Millhiser, and
Mr. and Mrs. James B. Martin of Gloucester, Va. Mrs. Martin is a
Trustee Emeritus of the University. Also in attendance and
recognized were Miss Ruth Parmly, benefactress of the University,
Miss Elizabeth Hamm, a special friend of Washington and Lee
University and Richard H. Turrell, ’49, former president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association. Bruce Breimer, assistant
headmaster of Collegiate School in New York, was also introduced.
In the short business session of the meeting, Richard Warren, 57,
made the report for the nominating committee. In addition to the

39

Chapter News

 

Wilson; and Judge Chris Compton, ’50, ’53L, enjoy cocktails at The
Hyatt Richmond.

PALMETTO—Present at the chapter’s dinner meeting are Joe Wilson, ’69;
John Folsom, ’73; Les Cotter, ’80; and Russell Plowden, ’81.

several chapter directors David L. Dowler, ’69, was named
president and Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20, ’23L, was reelected
treasurer. Poindexter was recognized for his long tenure as chapter
treasurer which has extended over 40 continuous years. Paul
Perkins introduced President Wilson, who made a report on the
strengths of Washington and Lee as he saw them as the new
president, and he also mentioned several of the projects needed in
the future. Also attending from the University were Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, director of development, and Bill Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary.

RICHMOND. Experiencing one of the largest attendances on
record in recent times, the chapter held a reception in honor of
President John D. Wilson on April 20, 1983, at The Hyatt
Richmond. Cocktails preceded a delicious dinner in the ballroom.
William C. French, ’73, president of the chapter, presided over the
dinner meeting and recognized a number of special guests,
including Judge A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, a Trustee of
Washington and Lee and John N. Thomas, ’24, Trustee Emeritus.

40

RICHMOND—Andrew McCutcheon, ’48; Donald Fergusson, ’51; President

 

 

 

RICHMOND —Listening to President Wilson’s remarks are William E.
Garrison III, ’76; Mrs. Garrison; Channing J. Martin, ’75, ’79L; and Mrs.
Martin.

 

PALMETTO—Paul Dominick, ’79L; Wil Lear, ’51; and Joe Walker, ’76,
outgoing chapter president.

The chapter was pleased also to have Mrs. Leslie Cheek as a special
guest at the reception. After an introduction, President Wilson made
a splendid report on Washington and Lee University and his plans
for the future.

PALMETTO. The chapter held its annual dinner and business
meeting on Monday, April 25, at Seawells at the Columbia Fair
Grounds. After a cocktail hour, President Joe Walker, ’76, gave
thanks for the meal and called the meeting to order after dinner. The
major item of business on the agenda was the election of new
officers. Elected unanimously were Jay Nexsen, ’76, president; Les
Cotter, ’80, vice president; Will Newton, 60, secretary; and Wick
Stuart, ’66, ’68L, treasurer. Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary, reported on recent events at Washington and Lee and
particularly on the early favorable impressions of Dr. John D.
Wilson’s presidency at the University. A number of questions were
asked that evoked some interesting discussion among the audience.
Jay Nexsen assumed the presidency of the Palmetto Chapter and

 

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—At a reception in his honor, President Wilson speaks
with William T. Brotherton Jr., 47, ’50L; Ruge DeVan, ’34; Mrs. William
T. Brotherton III; and William T. Brotherton Ill, ’75.

 

BLUE RIDGE—Trustee Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’39 (center) speaks with
Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss and H. Dan Winter III, ’69, chapter president.

closed the meeting with a challenge for all to keep the chapter a
productive contributor to Washington and Lee University.

CHARLESTON, W.VA. After being guest speaker at the
Charleston Rotary Club luncheon on April 22, 1983, Dr. John D.
Wilson, president of Washington and Lee, was the honored guest of
the chapter at an alumni reception and dinner at the Edgewood
Country Club that evening. In addition to the alumni from
Charleston, the chapter was pleased to have a number of alumni
from the Tri-State Chapter including Huntington and the
surrounding areas. It was one of the largest number of alumni and
friends of Washington and Lee to gather in Charleston in some
years. Ben Bailey, ’75, president of the chapter presided over the
dinner and handled the recognition of special guests. I. N. Smith,
"57, ’60L, Trustee of the University, introduced President Wilson,
who was the principal speaker of the evening. Commenting on his
nice afternoon in touring the capitol grounds and other interesting
sites in Charleston, President Wilson made an interesting report on
the University. His remarks were enthusiastically received. William

 

 

 

 

3

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Among those present at the large Charleston
gathering are Ben Bailey, ’75; Amanda Cox; Mrs. Norman Fitzhugh; Mrs.
Hardy; and W. Cecil Hardy Jr., ’39.

 

BLUE RIDGE—Host Robert G. Brown, ’49, talks to Thomas W. Gilliam Jr.,
’60, during cocktails at the Farmington Country Club in Charlottesville.

T. Brotherton Jr., °47, ’50L, with the assistance of Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, concluded the meeting with a fine
rendition of the ‘‘W&L Swing.”’

BLUE RIDGE. In the elegant setting of the ballrooms of The
Farmington Country Club in Charlottesville, the chapter was co-
host with Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Brown, ’49, at cocktails and
dinner on May 2, 1983, in honor of President and Mrs. John D.
Wilson. The Browns, formerly of Dallas, Texas, have recently
purchased a home in Charlottesville. Among the special guests were
Dr. and Mrs. Edgar Shannon SJr., ’39, a Trustee of the University
and Mr. and Mrs. Richard Turrell, ’49, of Short Hills, N.J.
President Wilson was the principal speaker, and in his opening
remarks recognized Dan Winter III, ’69, president of the chapter,
and expressed most sincere thanks to him and to Mr. and Mrs.
Brown for their gracious hospitality. His remarks about Washington
and Lee and the challenges which lie ahead were warmly received.
Also attending from the University were Mr. and Mrs. Farris
Hotchkiss and Mr. and Mrs. Bill Washburn.

41

 

 

7 ' Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the sante price as

 

 

 

 

 

 

s. In addition to his Kean
Coleg dts Longacre has also served as president

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the rank of ambassador and was ambassador to Rwanda
in 1972-73. He is currently a Washington, D.C.,
representative of United Brands.

J. S. KIRKPATRICK retired in October 1982 as execu-
tive vice president and general manager of A & N
Electric Cooperative after 40 years of service. He
resides in Parksley, Va., but also owns a home near
Lexington, Va.

1937

JAMES S. BRUCE has retired as senior vice president
of Eastman Kodak Co. after 43 years of service. He
continues to be active as a Senior Fellow with the
Center for Creative Leadership in Greensboro, N.C.,
chairman of Rochester Blue Cross Board, and various
consulting assignments. He manages also to get in a
lot of golf, tennis, and backpacking. Recently Bruce
went to China as a tourist.

ISADORE M. SCOTT, trustee emeritus of Washington
and Lee University, received an honorary degree
from West Virginia University at its commencement
exercises in May in Morgantown. Scott, a native
West Virginian, is chairman of the board of Tosco
Corp., one of the world’s largest oil refining com-
panies. He was formerly president of Winner Manu-
facturing Co. in Trenton, N.J., and chairman of the
board of Tri-Industrial Facilities, Inc. A former board
chairman of the World Affairs Council, Scott recently
introduced Mrs. Robin C. Duke at a luncheon in
Philadelphia. Mrs. Duke, the wife of Angier Biddle
Duke, who is a former U.S. Ambassador to Spain and
Denmark, is national co-chairman of the Population
Crisis Committee. The luncheon was co-sponsored
by the World Affairs Council and Planned Parent-
hood.

1938

CoL. BEN L. ANDERSON is a retired Army officer
living in Sierra Vista, Ariz. Since his retirement he
has served as city councilman, county planning and
zoning commissioner, chairman of the City’s Board
of Adjustment, and chairman of the local American
Red Cross.

PAUL VAN BUSKIRK is president of Arizona General
Insurance Management, Ltd. He and his wife, Tony,
have four children. The van Buskirks reside in Care-
free, Ariz.

THOMAS A. MALLoy Jr. was elected the 10th Michi-
gan Congressional District delegate to the Democratic
State Central Committee. In March he was elected
vice chairman of the Congressional District Execu-
tive Committee.

ROBERT EDWARD SURLES spent three weeks in Peru
in November 1982. He was with a Smithsonian study
group learning about the Inca civilization. He also
spent a week in Sanibel Island, Fla., studying bird
life. Besides the extracurricular activities, Surles
keeps busy with a law practice and a cattle farm in
Summerville, Ga.

   

C3 : Rawé. "45

1939

MARRIAGE: RANDOLPH D. Rouse of Fairfax, Va.,
master of the Fairfax Hunt, to Michelle O’ Brian of
California in January 1983. The couple honeymooned
in Ireland.

JUDGE GEORGE F. X. MCINERNEY of Bayport, N.Y.,
has recently been re-elected to another 14-year term
as Justice of the Supreme Court, State of New York.

1941

GEORGE F. X. MCINERNEY (See 1939.)

1943

JEFFERSON W. HUDSON of Cincinnati, Ohio, expects
to retire January 1984 as group vice president and
director of Eagle-Picker Industries, Inc.

JAMES S. JEFFERSON has retired from Texaco, Inc.,
after 32 years of service in Texaco and its affiliate
Caltex.

1944

Dr. CHARLES A. MEAD retired from the practice of
orthopedic surgery after 25 years of practice in Jack-
sonville, Fla. He is now serving as chief medical
officer for the Seaboard System Railroad.

1945

R. EDWARD JACKSON, former managing editor for the
Washington Star, is now back in New York where he
is deputy chief of correspondents in charge of the U.S.
news coverage for Time Inc. His wife, Kathleen, is a
copy editor on Time Inc.’s new magazine, TV Cable
Week.

ELLIOT SCHEWEL and his wife, Rosel, were pre-
sented the Pro Opera Civica Award by The Greater
Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce at the celebration
of its 100th anniversary at a luncheon in Lynchburg
on April 5. The Schewels are the first couple to
receive the 9-year-old award. Schewel is vice presi-
dent of the Schewel Furniture Co. in Lynchburg and
has been a state senator since 1976. Mrs. Schewel is a
faculty member and trustee of Lynchburg College, a
charter member and past president of the Lynchburg
League of Women Voters, a member of the Lynchburg
Junior Woman’s Club and a board member of the
United Way.

CHARLES S. ROwE, editor and co-publisher of The
Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va., has been
elected first vice president of the Associated Press.
He was first elected to the AP board of directors in
1976 and is on the board of the American Society of
Newspaper Editors, the board of the Virginia Press
Association, and is a past president of the Associated
Press Managing Editors Association. In 1982 and
1983 he was a juror on the Pulitzer Prize committee.

1949

BRIAN BELL returned last year from Lagos, Nigeria,
where he was the Counselor for Public Affairs for two
years and after a home leave was assigned by the
United States Information Agency as the International
Public Affairs Advisor to the newly formed United
States Central Command. This organization is one of
six unified military commands and is responsible for
all U.S. military activity in 19 countries in the Middle
East, South Asia and the Horn of Africa.

ALAN W. SPEARMAN Jr. is engaged in real estate
development, homebuilding, and general real estate
brokerage in Huntsville, Ala. He is married to the
former Evelyn White of Memphis, and the couple’s
youngest child, Alan III, is employed in the com-
modity and futures department of J. C. Bradford Co.
in Nashville, Tenn.

KENNETH H. WACKER in October 1982 celebrated 25
years with government products division, Pratt &
Whitney Aircraft. He has done considerable traveling
abroad.

1950

RICHARD E. HODGES is chairman and CEO of Liller
Neal, Inc., an Atlanta advertising and public relations
firm. In over 32 years with this firm he served in a
variety of roles. Hodges is active in civic and pro-
fessional activities including executive committee and
communication chairman of Metro Atlanta Chapter
of the American Red Cross, a trustee of Georgia State
University Foundation, the University of Georgia
Journalism Advisory Committee, and the Emory
University Management Conference Board.

ROGER Mupp, NBC News correspondent in Wash-
ington, D.C., was recently inducted into the North
Carolina Journalism Hall of Fame at ceremonies held
at the Carolina Inn in Chapel Hill. The Hall of Fame
honors journalists who are strongly identified with
North Carolina.

1951

DONALD R. TAYLOR, formerly administrator of Tryon
Palace, a historic landmark in New Bern, N.C., is
now director of Gunston Hall, also a historic site, in
Lorton, Va.

DavE WOLF Jr. is president and chief executive
officer of Alexander Howden Insurance Services,
Inc. The firm, headquartered in Atlanta, has 11
branches throughout the United States.

THOMAS K. WOLFE JR., author, delivered the com-
mencement address on May 29, 1983, at Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland, Va.

1953

THE REv. C. ScoTT May celebrated this year the
25th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood
and his 10th anniversary of becoming rector of St.
James Church in Marietta, Ga. In August and Sep-
tember he expects to be on sabbatical in London.

43

Yachtsmen (from left) Terry
Whitman, ’53; John A.

Williamson, ’53; Tom Jacob,
52; and, Winston Koch, ’61

 

cen name it and chief o ng officer of fi
Group W Cable, Inc., one of the nation’s big cable
television operations. Staniar joined Group W Cable

in October 1980 with a background in cor

 

 

 

 

 

L.N. Miller Jr., °66

R. L. Anderson, ’54

CaRY J. HANSEL JR. is quality control manager of
Rust-oleum Corp. He and his wife have two sons and
the family lives in Berryville, Va.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER Serves on a number of
committees at Rockingham Community College. He
also won the first annual Ben E. Fountain Award for
Writing presented by the Association of Community
College Public Information Officers of North Caro-
lina’s 58-member community college system.

WILLIAM S. WILDRICK is commanding officer of the
Naval Reserve UDT/Seal Pac 119 in San Diego,
Calif. He spent one month on active duty in Korea
working with South Korean special warfare forces.

JONATHAN E. ADAMS is chief pilot of an F-28 for
Empire Airlines of New York. He lives in Fultonville,
N.Y.

RICHARD T. CLAPP is vice president and regional
manager for Wells Fargo Corporate Services, Inc., in
Atlanta.

A. BRUCE CLEVERLY is marketing manager for the
Gillette Co. in Boston with responsibility for all U.S.
marketing of Atra and Trac II shaving products. He
lives in Hingham,. Mass., with his wife, Jackie, and
two daughters, Paige, 8, and Samantha, 11.

R. C. (Bos) GASTROCK is operations manager and
pilot for Air Logistics of Alaska, division of Offshore
Logistics, Inc., a worldwide aviation service com-
pany. He is also a C-130 pilot and group plans officer
for the Alaska National Guard. He and his wife, Judi,
have three sons and the family lives in Anchorage.

STEPHEN W. RIDEOUT (See 1965.)

1969

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JEB BRowN, a son, Jeremy
Earle II, on April 12, 1983. Brown recently joined
the Young Presidents’ Organization. He is the out-
going president of the Washington, D.C., Advertising
Club.

In June, MaJ. RICHARD H. BASSETT completed a
three-year tour of duty in Germany. He now attends
the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College
at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan.

ROBERT J. TROTMAN has been producing art furniture
for the past 10 years. His work has appeared recently
at the American Craft Museum and the Convergence
Gallery in New York and the Private Collection in
Cincinnati. Pieces are in the collections of Best Pro-
ducts, Richmond; the Mint Museum, Charlotte,
N.C.; R.J. Reynolds Industries, Winston-Salem,
N.C.; the vice president’s residence, Washington;
and Buckingham Palace, London. Trotman, his wife,
Jane, and sons, Nat, 7, and Bart, 2, live in Casar,
N.C.

JOHN RAY TURMAN works in computer processing

   

 

A. Angrisani, ’71

for Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. in San Antonio.
He is married to the former Kathryn Lee Green of
Houston and still plays competitive tennis when he
can.

1970

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RICHARD B. ARMSTRONG, a
daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on March 4, 1983, in
Winston-Salem, N.C. Armstrong is a vice president
at Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. and returned to
Winston-Salem after representing the bank in New
York for a number of years.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. SCRUGGS Jr.,
their third daughter, Elizabeth Turner, on Sept. 7,
1982, in Houston.

C. TORRENCE ARMSTRONG has just been elected
president of the Alexandria (Va.) Bar Association.
He and his wife, Charlsie, have two children and
have been living in Alexandria for 10 years.

Dr. WALTER J. BAYARD is performing a radiology
fellowship at Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke’s Hospital
in Chicago.

J. DONALD CHILDRESS is southeastern managing
partner of Trammell Crow Co., a diversified com-
mercial real estate partnership. He lives in Atlanta
and oversees offices there and in Charlotte, Orlando,
Tampa and Miami. Childress and his wife, Jill, have
three children, J. D., 7, and McKinley and Trevor,
both 1.

B. WAUGH CRIGLER has moved to Charlottesville
where he is the U.S. Magistrate.

GEORGE W. HAMLIN was promoted to manager of
market planning at Lockheed-Georgia. He is respon-
sible for development and analysis of new business
prospects and concepts for new warfare systems.

MARRIAGE: McDONALD WELLFORD JR. and Joanne
Kastelberg on Aug. 28, 1982. The couple lives in

Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. CONNOR SMITH, a daughter,
Graeme Elizabeth, on Dec. 30, 1982. Smith has
finished his residency in urology and is with the
Navy at Great Lakes, Ill.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS H. WATTS, a son,
Adam Stanley, on March 8, 1983, in Virginia Beach.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GENE ALAN WOOLARD, a
daughter, Angela Maria, on Feb. 5, 1983, in Norfolk.
Woolard is a partner in the law firm of Abraham and
Woolard, with offices in Norfolk and Virginia Beach.
He also is secretary-treasurer of Tehel and Co., a
financial planning corporation in Norfolk.

CHARLES D. ANDREWS manages two offices in Ar-
lington, Va., for AT&T Long Lines.

ALBERT ANGRISANI was appointed by President Rea-
gan and unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate
to the post of Assistant Secretary of Labor for Em-
ployment and Training. He directs all Department of
Labor financial programs; he also serves as the Secre-
tary of Labor’s senior political advisor and counselor.
From 1978 until his appointment as Assistant Secre-
tary, Angrisani was vice president of Chase Man-
hattan Bank of New York. Previously, he served with
the bank as assistant vice president and investment
officer. Angrisani has been recognized in Who’ s Who
in America, Who’ s Who in American Politics, Who’s
Who in Finance and Industry, and Outstanding Young
Men of America.

Dr. WALTER BRYANT BEVERLY is leaving the private
practice of medicine and will enter law school at the
University of Virginia in September 1983.

WILLIAM P. CANBY is a group vice president in the
National Division of Trust Co. Bank in Atlanta. He
and his wife, Kathe, have a son, John Hamill.

A. CASH KOENIGER is head of the history department
at the University of Southern Mississippi’s Natchez
regional campus. He taught previously at Murray
State and Mississippi State Universities. Koeniger
recently published articles in the South Atlantic
Quarterly, and the Journal of American History. He
is completing a book on Carter Glass and the New
Deal. After earning his Ph.D. from Vanderbilt in
1980, Koeniger married the former Rachel Flora of
Murray, Ky. They live in Natchez.

BIRTH: Mr, and Mrs. ROBERT M. TURNBULL, a
son, Edward Randolph, on Sept. 13, 1982, in Rich-
mond.

Dr. J. HUDSON ALLENDER is a pediatric cardiologist
at Fort Worth Children’s Hospital.

Dr. THOMAS H. CAHN has been appointed to the
Courtesy Medical Staff of the Worcester Hahnemann
Hospital in Worcester, Mass. After graduation from
the Medical College at the University of Virginia,
Cahn was a resident in family practice medicine at the
Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, Pa., and later
was chief resident in dermatology at the New England
Medical Center in Boston. He is now in the private
practice of dermatology in Worcester, Mass.

JOHN L. GRIFFITH JR. has been appointed senior vice
president of Fiduciary Trust Co. of New York.
Griffith, an attorney and former vice president and
director of marketing for Morgan Guaranty’s Trust
and Investment Division, joined Fiduciary in March
of 1983.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. AusTIN MCCASKILL III, a
daughter, Ellen, on Sept. 20, 1982. The young lady
joins two older sisters. McCaskill is a practicing
attorney in Little Rock, Ark.

45

 

 

 

Bonaventura will serve as principal administrator of
Christchurch during the coming fall session while the
headmaster is on sabbatical. In May 1983, Bona-
ventura earned his M.Ed. in administration from the
College of William and Mary. He, his wife, Connie,
and infant son, Benjamin Jr., live at Christchurch.

MICHAEL J. BURNS earned a Ph.D. in psychology
from U.C.L.A. in July 1981. He now works for Bell
Laboratories in New Jersey doing human factors and
systems engineering design work for new computer
systems. He lives in Piscataway and is working to
earn his private pilot’s license.

WILLIAM D. CANTLER II has made his stage debut in
New York City, at the Performing Garage in Soho as
part of Gina Wendkos’ production The Dead Fathers’
Club. Cantler and his wife, Jan, live in Brooklyn’s
Park Slope district with their cats Butch and Zelda.

ROBERT M. CHIAVELLO JR. is an associate with the
patent law firm of Pennie and Edmonds in New York.
He earned his degree from the John Marshall Law
School at Chicago in 1980. Chiavello, his wife and
daughter, Elizabeth, live in Tranquility, N.J.

EDWARD M. DUVALL earned his M.S. degree from
the University of Houston at Clear Lake City in
December 1981. He works in Houston for Analex,
Inc., a Denver-based firm.

PAUL J. LARKIN JR., after clerking for the Honorable
Robert H. Bork of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, has joined the firm of Hogan &
Hartson. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

STEPHEN F. MANGUM is the general accounting
manager for the Hecht’s Division of the May Depart-
ment Stores Co. in Washington. He lives in Sterling,
Va., with his wife, Donna, and daughter, Lauren, 2.

HENRY L. PHILLIPs III has been elected assistant vice
president in the asset-based financing group of Wa-
chovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Phillips joined Wachovia in 1977 as an internal audit
trainee. He became a field analyst in commercial
finance in 1978 and in 1980 was promoted to banking
officer.

1978
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXIS B. LAMOTTE, a
daughter, Frances Isabel, on Feb. 10, 1982. LaMotte
is head of shipping, traffic and director of the U.S.
government business at LaMotte Chemical Products
Co. in Chestertown, Md.

W. JEFFERY EDWARDS is an associate with the law
firm of Hunton and Williams in Richmond.

Davip S. PARK is prosecuting attorney for Keene,
N.H. He and his wife, Anne, have two sons, Nicholas
Fletcher, 2, and Jeffrey MacGregor, 1.

RICHARD W. STEWART is an assistant vice president
for Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York.

THOMAS W. TIFT III is in commercial real estate sales
with W. H. Daum and Staff in Newport Beach, Calif.
He and Kevin McFadden, ’79, are roommates in Seal
Beach.

MARRIAGE: WIL.iaM D. BROADHURST and Carol
H. Ramsey on July 31, 1982. They live in Roanoke,

Va.

MARRIAGE: Paut A. DOMINICK and Sharon Nor-
ment on May 15, 1982, in Columbia, S.C. Jay Nex-
sen, ’76, Stan Brading, ’79L, and Gregg Borri, ’79L,
were in the wedding. Guests included Jay DuRivage,
°16, °79L, Bob Womble, ’79L, Chip Magee, ’79L,
and Doug Broeker, *79L. The Dominicks live in
Columbia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. BALENTINE JR., a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on Aug. 3, 1982, in At-
lanta.

JOHN L. CONNOLLY received his M.B.A. from Tulane
University in December 1982. He is now aconsultant
with Coopers and Lybrand in New York.

CHARLES E. D’Auria earned an M.S. in physiology
from Rutgers University in 1981. He is now a second-
year student at the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic
Medicine.

DONALD P. NOBLE practices real estate law with the
San Antonio firm of McCamish, Ingram, Martin and
Brown. He graduated from law school at the Univer-
sity of Texas in May 1982.

JOHN C. TOMPKINS is a dealer technical sales repre-
sentative for the Energy Products Group of Reynolds
Metals Co. He is responsible for marketing solar

 
  

    
    

== tsk S

 

    

SRY

  

q =

 

 

energy systems in the Carolinas. Tompkins and his
wife, Sara Lee, live in Charlotte, N.C.

MaRK R. Davis (See 1980.)

1980

MARRIAGE: REGINA M. EDNIE and Mark R. Davis,
°79L, on June 5, 1982, in Oxon Hill, Md. Alumni
present were Cheryl Harris, ’*80L, Joan Gardner,
°80L, Kevin Cosgrove, ’79L, Ed Speidel, ’79L, Bob
Hill, ’79L, Lisa Turley, ’80L, Jack Corrado, ’80L,
Jack Coffey, ’79L, Bill Seidel, ’79L, Richard Davis,
°79L, Martin Delaney, ’79L, Susan Yoder, ’80L,
Jessine Monaghan, ’79L, Sam Flax, ’81L, Channing
Martin, ’79L, Betsy Callicott, ’80L, Bill Goodell,
°80L, Mike Lepchitz, ’79L, and Neil Rowe, ’80L.
The couple lives in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: H. BENJAMIN HULL and Mary Thayer
on Oct. 2, 1982. Hull earned an M.S. in geology
from Texas A&M University. They live in Houston.

JOAN M. GARDNER was elected to the board of gov-
ernors of the Young Lawyers Section of the Virginia
State Bar in June 1982. She is associate general
counsel for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South-
western Virginia in Roanoke.

Davip L. GARNER finished his master’s degree in
geophysics in November 1982. His thesis was entitled
‘‘The Thermal and Mechanical Evolution of the
Anadacko Basin’’ and is to be published in the journal
Techonophysics. Garner began work with Chevron
Geoscience Co. in December 1982 and is employed
in the exploration services. In the summer of 1983 he
expects to be working with field operations in Missis-
sippi, Southern California and Wyoming.

JOHN H. Norserc III has joined the investment
banking firm of Diehl, Speyer and Brown in Newport
Beach, Calif., as an associate.

M. WAYNE RINGER is an associate with the Norfolk
law firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly and Greer.
DIANE GIBSON RINGER is an assistant Common-
wealth’s Attorney in Portsmouth. She works with
Commonwealth’s Attorney, Johnny E. Morrison,
"14, Tia

Guy T. STEUART III, who has been with the U.S.
Small Business Administration in Washington, D.C.,
will attend the College of William and Mary’s Busi-
ness School in the fall of 1983.

C. RANDALL TALLEY is a communications systems
representative with American Bell, Inc., the new
AT&T subsidiary. He lives in Pasadena, Md., and
works in Washington.

ScoTT A. WILLIAMS, formerly in New Orleans, is
now in Atlanta, Ga., as an officer in the First Atlanta
Corp., the parent of First National Bank of Atlanta.
He plays on the Atlanta lacrosse team and is engaged
in several volunteer programs.

47

   

       

 

- ( -
: - ; - : , -
: @
1 - o.
oo e : : : :
; : -

(1926

| ROGERS NICHOLS, who had practiced
Feb. Uy, 1983. Dr. Nichols had

1983. var fr almost Showtpotcnreten
ment, history and political science at Hag
_ Junior Coll , after 28 years with the school. Prior to

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Homecoming 1983
September 23-25

Saturday, September 24:
@ 11:00 a.m.—Cross Country: The Generals vs. Washing-
ton and Mary Washington Colleges
@ 1:30 p.m.—Football: The Generals vs. Centre College

Sunday, September 25:
@ 1:00 p.m.: Lacrosse: The Annual Alumni-Varsity Game

Get Involved

Friday Evening and Saturday Morning For Alumni:
@ Golf, Racketball, Squash, Mixed Doubles Tennis
Tournaments or a Guided Bike Tour of Rockbridge
County
® The Second Annual Chessie Trail Alumni Race:
A 10K Run on the Scenic Chessie Trail

For more information and entry forms, write:
Homecoming ’83
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

Fall Sports Schedules

 

FOOTBALL
Sept. 17—Emory and Henry Away
Sept. 24—Centre College HOME
(Homecoming)
Oct. 1—Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 8—Maryville HOME
Oct. | 15—Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 22—University of the South Away
Oct. 29—Bridgewater HOME
Nov. 5—Catholic University HOME
Nov. 12—Lebanon Valley HOME

(Parents’ Weekend)

y
Ch
’

‘

CROSS COUNTRY
Sept. 24—Washington College, HOME
| Mary Washington College
Oct. 1—Norfolk State, Roanoke College Away
Oct. 8—Eastern Mennonite, Away
| Catholic University,

American University
Oct. 15—Virginia Division II & II HOME
Championships
Oct. 22—Bridgewater College, Away
West Virginia Tech
Oct. |29—Hampden-Sydney, HOME
Lynchburg College,
Eastern Mennonite
Nov. 5—ODAC Championships Away
Nov. 12—NCAA Division III
Regional Meet Away

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

SOCCER
Sept. _20—Eastern Mennonite
Sept. 24—Averett
Sept. 28—Mary Washington
Oct. 1—Maryville
Oct. 5—Roanoke
Oct. 8—Messiah
Oct. | 11—-Virginia Military Institute
Oct. 15—Gettysburg
Oct. 19—Lynchburg
Oct. | 22—Hampden-Sydney
Oct. | 29—Catholic University
Nov. 1—Radford
Nov. 5—Emory

 

WATER POLO
Sept. 16-
18—W&L Fall Classic
Sept. 23-

25—Northeast Varsity Invitational
Oct. 1-2—W&L Invitational
Oct. 8-9—Southern League Tournament
Oct. 14-16—Southeast Varsity Invitational
Oct. 21-

23—Southern League Tournament
Oct. 29—Virginia State Championships
Nov. 4-6—Southern League

Championships

Nov. 11-

13—Eastern Championships

HOME

Away
HOME
HOME

Away

Away
Away

HOME

Away

211 RALSTON RD

 

 

 

