~

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine
of, Washington and I

    

On the Inside: The Birth of Women’s Athletics

“WHE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHANGTON &.LEE UMVERSITY
LEXIS hig yA

 

OCT 2 1989

 

‘*What do you people do here in the summer?”’’

Over the years, more than one Washington and Lee student has asked me
this question. In other words, they ask: Does life go on when we’re not here?

It’s a reasonable enough question, especially for those who have been
around on the afternoon following undergraduate commencement. After the
hectic few days of parties, receptions, packing, and the commencement
ceremony itself, suddenly the new graduates and their entourage of family
and friends vanish within the space of a few hours. One minute they’re here,
and the next they’re gone, leaving only some trash in the local dumpsters and
a black pile of commencement robes on the front porch of the Co-op.

An eerie hush settles over Lexington. No sounds emanate from Red Square;
no voices echo in the Graham-Lees quad; no long lines form in the Co-op,
or the post office, or the Lexington dry cleaners; no cars are parked on top
of each other in the Corral.

The campus seems almost desolate, abandoned. But life goes on Py
Washington and Lee during the summertime, as it does at most academic in-
stitutions. We spend our time assessing the accomplishments of the previous
year and planning for the coming months. We catch up on projects that may
have lagged behind. Faculty pursue research interests and review course
material for new classes, and administrators attend conferences and learn fresh
approaches to their duties. rte

We experience an influx of visitors, too. Tourists swarm the campus, armed
with maps and camera bags and brochures. Radiant couples are married in
the Chapel. Teenagers, senior citizens, and our own alumni come to attend
our various summer programs. And, this past summer, a crew of construc-
tion workers have joined us every day as they make exciting progress on the
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. é

Still, colleges and universities are designed to be full of students. So it
is with a great deal of anticipation that we look forward to the coming of
fall, and when we see the first ‘‘rats’’ arriving at the school next door, it’s
good to know our first-year students will soon follow.

Naturally, we greet the start of a new school year with a certain sense of
loss. Many individuals whom we have come to know and respect and admire
have graduated. They won’t be in our classrooms this fall, and we will miss
them. We hope they know they are welcome to come back any time, and we
will always be glad to see them.

—A.B.C.

 

 

ANNE COUuLLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes
Editor

PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

Communications Advisory Board

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55
JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
ANDREW H. McCuTCHEON, ’48
ROBERT MOTTLEY, ’64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN
FRANK A. PARSONS, °54
MATTHEW W. PAxTon, °49
CHARLES S. Rowe, ’45
SARAH K. WIANT, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

Joun D. KLInepInsT, ’71, ’78L, President

JoHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72, Vice President

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs

JAMES D. FARRAR JrR., ’74, Associate
Secretary

Directors

BENJAMIN L. BAILEY, ’75

WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61

JOHN A. COCKLEREECE Jr., ’76, ’79L
JAMES J. DAwson, ’68, ’71L ©
WALLER T. DuDLEY, ’74, ’79L

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
CLay T. JACKSON, ’76

RoBert D. LARugE, ’72

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
EDWARD F. Meyers Jr., 61, ’63L
MICHAEL G. MorGAN, ’68

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
EUGENE C. PERRY Jr., ’75, ’78L
JOHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72

WILLiaM E. SMITH Jr., ’63

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79

MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L
RICHARD R. WARREN, ’57

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 64, Number 3, September 1989

 

A Matter of Degrees

 

Goodbye, W&L

 

Authority and Power

11

 

The Generals’ Newest Recruits

14

 

The W&L Gazette

18

 

Alumni News

24

 

Getting a Foot in the Door

26

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

28

 

Class Notes

30

 

In Memoriam

45

 

And Furthermore

47

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the generosity of Mary

Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in September, December, March, and June by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third-

class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.

 

 

photo by Mathew Horridge, ’89

A Matter
of Degrees

by Becky Reynolds, ’90, and Anne Coulling

ore than anything, the 1989 commencement
exercises will be remembered for the heat.
After an unusually cool and rainy spring,

summer weather descended upon Lexington with a sud-
den vengeance in late May—just in time for the Univer-
sity’s graduation ceremony and traditional baccalaureate
service, which was held outside for the first time. For
two successive days of 90-plus-degree heat, the faculty,
the graduates, and their families languished on the
Front Campus under a sweltering midday sun, while
they fanned themselves frantically with commencement
programs and scrambled for water offered by large
coolers placed throughout the audience.

Of course, the oppressive weather was not the only
thing that made this particular commencement
memorable. It was also the first time that a fully
coeducational class received undergraduate degrees from
the University, and a small band of television and
newspaper reporters and camera operators was on hand
to record the occasion. (Eight female transfer students
have graduated from the University since September
1985, when women were first admitted as
undergraduates.)

Yet the media seemed more aware of the significant
moment than anyone else did. Instead, commencement
was a time to be grateful for the past four years and to
look ahead to the future.

In his commencement remarks, student body presi-
dent Christopher S. de Movellan of Lexington, Ky.,
reminded his classmates of their obligations. ‘‘We have
been blessed with so many gifts, and we have before us
a vast array of opportunities: opportunities to help
ourselves and to help others,’’ de Movellan said.
‘‘Everyone here has the ability to arrive at a position
that wields great power over the lives of others, and
with it probably a large bundle of money. Go for it;
there is nothing wrong with that.

‘*But never forget the many little things that we can
do to make life better for others. Money helps, but our
time and our education are the two most effective tools
we have. Use them to tutor someone in the public
school system, get involved with a program for less for-
tunate kids, or maybe give some time to help an adult
learn to read. Many things may bring satisfaction, but
helping another is still the most rewarding of all.’’

In his address to the graduates, President John D.
Wilson also spoke about the importance of service to
others in solving the nation’s most pressing problems—
in particular, the problem of illiteracy. ‘‘The child who
is to have half a chance to become what he or she is
capable of becoming must be nurtured by parents who
care about him or her—and must be surrounded by
brothers and sisters and grandparents who love one
another and look after one another,’’ Wilson said.

‘‘There is no secret to this. Jesus of course knew it
and preached it. Shakespeare knew it and wrote some
of his greatest plays to make it concrete and real for
us. . . .Certainly the psychologists and ministers and
teachers know it, for they see the fruits of caring rela-

tionships even as they occasionally confront the destruc-
tive power of neglect and selfishness and self-
indulgence. I dare say, you know about it most of all,
for your success and your great promise, so manifest on
this happy day, have been assured by the love and
sacrifice and guidance which your parents have given to
you over the past two decades.’’

During his remarks, Wilson also paid tribute to four
individuals who were awarded honorary degrees by the
University.

e Frank Batten, a newspaper publisher and chair-
man of Landmark Communications, received a doctor
of letters degree. A native of Norfolk, Va., Batten at-
tended the University of Virginia and Harvard Universi-
ty School of Business. At the age of 27, he was named
publisher of the Virginian-Pilot and Ledger-Star in Nor-
folk. Through his newspapers, Batten was a tireless sup-
porter of desegregation, and the papers’ front-page
editorials advocating integration earned them a Pulitzer
Prize.

In recent years Batten has guided Landmark Com-
munications, the newspapers’ parent company, through
a period of substantial growth. Landmark now owns 22
cable systems in 15 states, nine daily newspapers, 29
community newspapers, and several radio and television
stations.

In 1977, Batten contracted throat cancer, forcing the
removal of his larynx. His successful efforts to learn to
speak again earned him the American Cancer Society’s
Courage Award. Less than five years after the surgery,

he was named chairman of the Associated Press.

e Edmund D. Campbell, ’18, ’22L, received a doc-
tor of laws degree. Campbell was born in Lexington,
where both his father and grandfather were professors
of geology at Washington and Lee. Campbell himself
graduated first in his class in the undergraduate and law
divisions at W&L.

As a civil rights lawyer in the 1950s, Campbell suc-
cessfully attacked segregated seating laws in Virginia,
and in 1959 he won a major legal victory on behalf of
some 500 parents and students of Norfolk public
schools, which had been closed by gubernatorial edict
under the Virginia ‘‘massive resistance’’ law.

¢ Elizabeth Pfohl Campbell received a doctor of
letters degree in recognition of her accomplishments as
an educator, civic leader, and pioneer in educational
radio and television. A native of Winston-Salem, N.C..,
and a graduate of Salem College and Columbia Univer-
sity, Campbell has acted as dean of women at the
Moravian College for Women in Bethlehem, Pa., and as
dean at Mary Baldwin College, where she helped
develop the school into a four-year college. She later
moved to the Washington, D.C., area, where she served
for 12 years on the Arlington County School Board
during the initial stages of integration.

Campbell was instrumental in establishing WETA,
the third-largest producing station in the national Public
Broadcasting Service television network. Since 1971, she
has been the station’s vice president for community af-
fairs and has witnessed its growth to a $28 million per-

 

Clockwise from upper left: members of the University Chorus sing a benediction during the baccalaureate service; Tom Mack, ’86 (center), and
Kevin Keller (right) prepare for the law commencement ceremony; U.S. Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher, ’47, addresses the law

graduates; John Boller is recognized as valedictorian of the class of ’89.

W&L 3

To the left, Lee
© Norton (left)
and Eddie Yu
move in proces-
sion along the
Colonnade;
below, the
seniors and their

families enjoy a
_ luncheon on the
Back Campus
following the
baccalaureate
service.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

ge SG 7

Right, clockwise from upper left: Alexa Salzman, Amy Balfour,
Catherine Christian, Cathy Boardman, Eleanor Nelson, and
Caroline Boone assemble for a photo session; Clay Burns,
Monica Burke, and Robby Burch attend to the commencement
speakers; honorary degree recipients Elizabeth Pfohl Campbell,
Edmund D. Campbell, Frank Batten, and Dr. O. Hunter
McClung Jr. gather with President Wilson (center) before the
ceremony; Secretary of Commerce Mosbacher counsels the law
graduates.

4 W&L

year operation.

e oO. Hunter McClung Jr., a Lexington physician,
received a doctor of science degree. After graduating
from the Virginia Military Institute and the University
of Virginia medical school, McClung practiced medicine
in Lexington for 45 years.

‘‘To younger doctors an inspiration, to this com-
munity a beloved counselor and friend, Hunter
McClung sought neither riches nor fame but was con-
tent instead to serve with diligence and sympathy those
who came to him in need,’’ said his honorary degree
citation.

McClung is a former member of the board of
trustees of the Virginia Episcopal School, the Stonewall
Jackson Hospital in Lexington, and the University of
Virginia Medical Alumni Board. He has also served on
the VMI Board of Visitors.

In addition to those receiving honorary degrees, two
other members of the University community were sin-
gled out during the commencement ceremonies for
special recognition. John D. Boller of Oak Ridge, N.J.,
the graduating senior with the highest academic average,
was named valedictorian with a cumulative grade-point
average of 4.148, the highest in the history of
Washington and Lee.

Boller graduated summa cum laude and received a
bachelor of science degree in mathematics and a
bachelor of arts degree in French. He was a University
scholar, a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Eta
Sigma, the freshman honor society, and a participant in
W&L’s theatre productions.

Marion M. (Moose) Herring of Boone, N.C., receiv-
ed the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion, which is
awarded by vote of the faculty. It is given to the
graduating senior who ‘‘excels in high ideals of living,
in spiritual qualities, and in generous and disinterested
service to others.”’

Herring was president of W&L’s chapters of
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership fraterni-
ty, and Alpa Epsilon Delta, the premedical honor socie-
ty; head dormitory counselor; and captain of the swim-
ming team and a member of the water polo team.

The day before commencement, the seniors and their
families assembled on the lawn for the traditional bac-
calaureate service, where Louis W. Hodges, Fletcher
Otey Thomas professor of religion and University
chaplain, delivered a sermon titled ‘‘Power, Authority,
and Servanthood.’’

‘‘Raw power to determine the lives of other people
is rooted ultimately in fear,’’ Hodges said, while
authority comes from ‘‘respect, gratitude, and love.”’

Excerpts of Hodges’ talk may be found beginning on
page 11.

Also as part of the commencement activities, 15
graduating seniors received Army ROTC commissions
during a special assembly in Lee Chapel.

The ceremony marking the beginning of Washington
and Lee’s spring graduation activities was held May 21
on the Front Campus, as 115 third-year law students

 

received juris doctor degrees from the School of Law on
a beautiful, clear afternoon.

United States Secretary of Commerce Robert A.
Mosbacher, ’47, delivered the keynote address to the
134th graduating law class of Washington and Lee.

Mosbacher told the graduates that he noticed a
number of changes on the campus, but, he added,
‘‘what hasn’t changed is the beautiful setting, the pride
and the traditions, the caring about the individual and
the progress of each student—that makes this one of
America’s truly great universities.

‘“‘W&L graduates have gone on to serve our nation
in local, state, and federal offices, have been members
of the Supreme Court, the House of Representatives,
the United States Senate, and the Cabinet. We may well
have with us today future members of these august
bodies, or perhaps even a future president. If you do
aspire toward public office—and I hope many of you
do—you couldn’t have gone to a better place, to live
with the traditions and the great names of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee.’’

Mosbacher continued, ‘‘These men had the integrity,
the intelligence, and the abilities to do great things for
this country and this world. They shared one thing in
doing their public duty, which Thomas Jefferson called
‘the splendid torment of public office.’ Even though all
of them would have preferred to be private citizens
most of their lives, they gave all that up because of
what they believed—and we must still believe—is service
to our fellow man, our fellow woman, our country.’’

Also speaking during the commencement ceremony
was Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the School of Law.
Twin themes of Bezanson’s address were change and
tolerance.

‘‘The legal system is society’s principal instrument of
change,’’ Bezanson said, ‘‘and lawyers are the in-
struments through which the demand for change—
indeed, I would say, the imperative for change—is chan-
neled by peaceful means, by orderly means, marked by
reason, into constructive social progress.”’

He added, ‘‘As a lawyer you will find that
understanding change and channeling it constructively
will be your principal responsibility. As you bear that
responsibility, I ask you to remember that change is
part and parcel of—indeed, it is essential to—social
progress, that constructive change requires both reason
and principle; for without them, the beneficial objects
of change will neither be seen nor achieved.

‘‘But remember, too, that unyielding reason and
principle, sterile logic, absolute unyielding conviction,
have their dark side as well, unless tempered by
tolerance—unless tempered, that is, by a recognition of
our own fallibilities and the corresponding insight that
for every absolute, there is a competing one.”’

During the law school ceremony, the John W. Davis
Prize for Law was awarded to Kevin James Henderson
of Taylors, S.C., and Ronald Stephen Range of
Kingsport, Tenn., for maintaining the highest grade-
point average in the class.

W&L 5

 

 

Buchanan, Ju, Lord Retire from Faculty

Three Washington and Lee professors retired at the end of
the 1988-89 academic year. All three were awarded emeritus
status by the Board of Trustees.

William Buchanan, ’41, professor of politics; I-Hsiung Ju,
professor of art and artist-in-residence; and Norman F. Lord,
professor of physical education, were recognized during
undergraduate commencement exercises.

After serving in the U.S. Navy during World War II,
Buchanan entered Princeton University, where he received a
master’s degree and a doctorate in politics. He then taught at
Mississippi State University, the University of Southern Califor-
nia, and the University of Tennessee before coming to
Washington and Lee as professor and chairman of the politics
department in 1966. Buchanan is a member of Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa. He is the author of Understanding
I-Hsiung Ju Political Variables, first published by Scribners in 1969, which

is now in its third edition.

A native of mainland China, Ju holds a bachelor’s degree in Chinese literature from the Univer-
sity of Amoy in China and a master’s in history from the University of Santo Tomas in the Philippines.

He joined the W&L faculty in 1969, and six years later he created the Art Farm in Rockbridge
County, where he gives private lessons and operates a gallery of his own works and those of his
students.

Lord has taught physical education at Washington and Lee for 43 years. During that period,
he has also served from time to time as coach of the wrestling, track and field, soccer, and cross
country teams. Lord came to W&L in 1946 after graduating from the University of Delaware and
serving in the 11th Airborne Division in World War II. He received a master’s degree in physical
education from Springfield College in 1954.

In 1983, Lord was inducted into the National Intercollegiate Soccer Officials Association Hall
of Fame. He has also served on
the association’s board of
directors.

During the commencement
ceremony, Lord received the

 

 

 

William Webb Pusey III Award
for outstanding service and
dedication to the University.
The Pusey Award was created
in 1981 by the student body ex-
ecutive committee and is nam-
ed in honor of Pusey, who serv-
ed W&L as professor, dean, and
acting president from 1939 un-
til his retirement in 1981. Stu-
dent body president Christopher
S. de Movellan made the award
presentation.

|

 

!

William Buchanan (left)
and Norman F. Lord

Washington and Lee.

 

struggle and triumph!

 

Thank You
To the Class
of 1989:

Thanks for naming
me as the 1989 recipient
of the Dean Pusey Award
at your graduation.

I esteem it an honor
to have been selected,
especially since I come
Jrom “‘the other side of
education.’’ Receiving
the notable Pusey Award

at your graduation was the highlight of my 43-year tenure at

I wish you happiness and success; so ‘‘hang tough’’ in the

Norm Lord

Professor Emeritus,
Physical Education

 

 

W&L

ee ae Fe i ee ee 4

:
i li ie

ine a.

oD ie a i a i ci ae J i OS

ee

 

Go O d bye 9 ) Y & | Four Graduating Seniors Look Back

    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

In the fall of 1985, the Alumni Magazine asked four
members of the incoming freshman class to explain :
why they had chosen to attend Washington and Lee. ge®
Their answers, as printed in the pages of the magazine, :
revealed four very distinct personalities, with differ-
ing opinions and interests. At the same time, all four
shared a respect for the University’s most cherished
values, such as academic excellence and the impor-
tance of integrity.

In the past four years, each of these students
participated fully in the academic and extracur-
ricular life of Washington and Lee. They
graduated in June and have entered new phases
in their lives—work or, in one case, graduate
school. But before leaving Lexington, they
took time to reflect again on their W&L careers
and to look backward at their years on the campus.

 

(Above) Erin Cosby, Don Schaeffer, Valerie Pierson, and Peter Sherwin
following the 1989 baccalaureate service and (right) as they appeared in the
pages of the Alumni Magazine four years ago.

W&L 7

 

W&L

Erin C. Cosby

Vienna, Va.

Cosby majored in French and
economics and received her degree magna
cum laude. She was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa,
the national leadership honor society. She
also served as a dormitory counselor and
a member of the sorority advisory com-
mittee. She now works as a consultant
for Arthur Andersen in Washington,
De.

Four years ago I wrote an article for
this same magazine explaining my ra-
tionale for choosing W&L. I mention-
ed dogs running about on campus,
students in [L.L.] Bean boots, and, most
important of all, a sense of communi-
ty. Secondly, I rationalized the con-
troversial arrival of women students in
Lexington by claiming that I simply
wanted to enjoy the same benefits as my
male peers.

Well, the dogs continue to roam (in
fact, a few wolf dogs have joined the
pack), Bean boots remain common at-

Peter J.W. Sherwin

Fresno, Calif.

Sherwin, a Best Products Foundation
scholar, received bachelor of science and
bachelor of arts degrees magna cum
laude with majors in chemistry, French,
and German. He was a member of the
Fencing Club, was named to Phi Beta
Kappa and Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman
honorary society, and was a Robert E.
Lee research scholar. He also worked in
the Reeves Center for the Research and
Exhibition of Porcelain and Paintings.
He is now a first-year student at Colum-
bia University’s law school.

It is very difficult for me to write a
reflection on my four years at
Washington and Lee or even to give an
opinion about my time spent in Lex-
ington. These years are now a part of
me and have helped to make me who I
am, for better or for worse. It was much
easier to write as a soon-to-be freshman
about my expectations of W&L and my
reasons for coming here. It is not as easy
to determine whether or not W&L and
I have lived up to our own ends of the
bargain, for a poor appraisal would
detract from us both.

As a senior in high school I applied

tire, and, above all else, an intimate
sense of community prevails.

Looking back at my undergraduate
days, I am excited to notice visible
changes demonstrating how the class of
*89 made an impact on Washington and
Lee history. The women’s athletic pro-
gram has added lacrosse, volleyball, soc-
cer, and track to its list of intercollegiate
sports since the fall of 1985. Women
students organized annual social func-
tions for themselves in addition to serv-
ing on the Executive Committee and
heading the Ring-tum Phi, the Calyx,
Fancy Dress Ball, Gaines Hall, the
freshman dorms, and other organiza-
tions. Last, but certainly not least, three
national women’s fraternities arrived in
January, with a fourth soon to follow.

I don’t mention these ac-
complishments as a _ bra-burning
feminist defending the cause of my
fellow women students, but rather to
show that some significant changes have
occurred in Lexington. The entire class,
both men and women, has determined
how a new type of student fits into a

to many liberal arts universities, just as
my peers did, but, unlike them, I look-
ed almost exclusively to the East, while
they stood baffled wondering how I
could leave California. I left my home
state, I left my family and friends, I left
all that I knew so that I could explore
the novelties of the East Coast.
Washington and Lee was the perfect set-
ting: a small traditional school hidden
away from the pressures of the city and
the passage of time. A school that had
the money and desire to pay for my
education, the programs to allow me to
do what I wanted academically (but not
socially), and a good enough reputation
that with good grades I could still get
into a high-powered law school. This
was what I wanted; this was what I got.

Now that my time here is over, and
I must go on to other things and other
places, I want to believe that W&L has
given me more than just a feel for the
old-boy network and a good resume for
law school; and I think it has. Here I
had the opportunity to train in the no-
ble art of fencing, to learn more than I
ever wanted to about Chinese export
porcelain, and to try my hand at
research in modern synthetic organic

tradition existing for more than two cen-
turies without her. The men strove to
protect the sacred virtues of Washington
and Lee while adjusting to changes.
Meanwhile, the women attempted to
supplement life at W&L without dis-
turbing that indefinable ‘‘something”’’
that makes Lee’s haven so special. The
entire process was awesome, at times
frustrating, but always a learning
experience.

Here is where the sense of communi-
ty becomes so evident. Each member of
our W&L family—undergraduate stu-
dents, alumni, faculty, and ad-
ministration—contributes, and will con-
tinue contributing, to the growth of our
University. Although our appearance is
different, we as a student body continue
cherishing integrity, honesty, and
justice. We accept these virtues and in-
corporate them into both our personal
lives and our relationship with
Washington and Lee while remember-
ing our motto—Non incautus futuri—
Not unmindful of the future. Virtue
coupled with foresight ensures success!

chemistry. I also learned much that is of
a less tangible nature, but is too com-
plex to put into this limited space. These
are the things that have affected me the
most and have helped form my opinions
and prejudices.

I wholeheartedly believe that Wash-
ington and Lee has been a good ex-
perience for me, and I have never regret-
ted coming here despite some of the
problems I have seen and encountered.
It was here in Lexington that I lost the
naive view that racial prejudice was a
thing of the past. Here I learned that not
all people, young and old, are as accept-
ing of others’ differences as were the
people with whom I grew up. Even the
seclusion which helps make W&L the
unique place that it is, also helps foster
the feeling that only through conformi-
ty may the true W&L survive the com-
ing of the next generation.

In any case Washington and Lee is
still dear to me, and I have no doubt that
I will look back in the next few years and
remark on how much simpler these days
were than the ones I will be spending as
a law student at Columbia, then as a
clerk, and finally as an attorney in the
city.

 

 

 

Donald C. Schaeffer
Lexington, Ky.

Schaeffer received a bachelor of arts
degree magna cum laude with majors in
economics and East Asian studies. He
was a member of the golf team, the
Outing Club, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon
social fraternity, was named to Phi Eta
Sigma, the freshman honor society, and
was a peer counselor. He also par-
ticipated in the University’s intramural
athletic program. He is the son of Edwin
F. Schaeffer Jr., *52, ’55L. He currently
lives in Winston-Salem, N.C., where he
works for First Wachovia Bank.

During my four years, Washington
and Lee underwent many changes, par-
ticularly the advent of coeducation. Few
can deny that coeducation has been the
academically correct decision. Enroll-
ment and academic standards have since
risen. Women have contributed a great
deal to classroom discussion and in-
tellectual curiosity, and the University
has gained greater prestige as a top,
small, liberal arts college.

From the viewpoint of having a well-

Valerie A. Pierson
Greensboro, N.C.

Pierson, the recipient of a Best Prod-
ucts Foundation scholarship, received a
degree in economics magna cum laude.
She was a dormitory counselor and a
member of the student recruitment com-
mittee, the women’s tennis team, and the
Contact lectures committee. She also
served as secretary of the 1988 Mock
Democratic Convention and participated
in the big brother/big sister program for
area youth. She is the daughter of
George H. Pierson Jr., ’50. She now
works as an associate with J.P. Morgan
in New York City.

I'll be quite candid about my four
years at Washington and Lee. I guess we
all come to college with certain expec-
tations, and I was no exception. I
remember being very impressed by
W&L’s Honor System, size, ap-
proachability of professors, location,
and image projected through students
who were active in recruiting, giving
tours, etc. I had been involved in a wide
range of activities in high school, and I
believed I could make a difference in the
transition to coeducation at W&L.

W&L 9

rounded student body, however, I think
W&L has suffered from its recent ad-
missions policies. In the pursuit of ap-
plicants with higher standardized test
scores, the admissions committee passes
over high school seniors who may be
weaker academically but display excep-
tional leadership skills. Traditionally,
W&L men have been well-rounded,
something General Lee extolled, but this
is gradually being lost.

In the process of going coeduca-
tional and improving academics, the ad-
ministration has promulgated and re-
vised policies which have weakened the
fraternity system. The fraternities are
experiencing renewed interest as frater-
nal affiliation becomes more important
to the shrinking male population. The
administration has taken the power
away from the individual house cor-
porations with irrefutable decisions as
to the future of the fraternities. Policies
which prohibit the pooling of even of-
age members’ funds for alcohol at the
fraternity houses will force members to
hold parties at country houses, a

I also remember being very surpris-
ed during my senior year in high school
when my father encouraged me to go to
Davidson College. Davidson had begun
the transition to coeducation in the ear-
ly ’70s, and by 1985 the coeducation
question was, for all intents and pur-
poses, moot. I couldn’t understand why
someone who had attended W&L and
held it in such obvious high regard
would advocate going to school
elsewhere. I now believe I understand
why he acted as he did.

My dad knew, as I did not, that not
everyone is as open-minded as he. He
also knew W&L is very conservative,
and that many would try to make the
transition as difficult as possible. Know-
ing that I am always one to give my
opinion very directly, he probably
wanted to spare me the personal toll that
would be taken on any vocal member of
the first coed class.

There are a great many things about
Washington and Lee that make it one
of the best universities in the country.
My roommate’s brother, Cove Geary,
’80, said it better than I when he stated
that W&L could not claim to be the
toughest institution academically, but it
10 W&L

dangerous proposition when people
must drive back into town late at night.

The Confidential Review Committee
(CRC) is another attempt by the ad-
ministration to compromise further the
students’ ability to resolve cases involv-
ing student conduct. The administration
considered the Student Conduct Com-
mittee (SCC) ineffective in its pro-
cedures and decided to set up a panel
with the students holding a minority
position. The Interfraternity Council is
another example of a committee alleged-
ly representing students’ interests but
which ends up making decisions which
the administration regards in the best in-
terest of the University.

We do not need to become another
Dartmouth, where the administration,
conservative students, and alumni are
warring over the future of that school.
On May 31, during his baccalaureate ad-
dress to the 1989 graduates, Dr. Louis
Hodges, a religion professor, com-
mented on the duty of the administra-
tion as servant to the faculty which, in
turn, is supposed to serve the student

could speak unequivocally as to the
caliber of people who attend. The
Honor System remains the most impor-
tant tradition at W&L and is one that
I will carry with me in both my personal
and professional lives.

Moreover, my professors have been
more than I could have possibly ex-
pected. It is incredible to find an institu-
tion where the emphasis remains on
teaching, and the professors are con-
cerned not only with your understanding
of the matter at hand, but also with your
personal growth.

Finally, there is no place in the world
where I could have found better friends.
The sort of person that W&L attracts is
exactly the sort of person that you want
as your confidante, sorority sister, or
Palms companion. /Editor’s note: The
Palms is a popular Lexington
restaurant/pub.]

On the other side of the coin, there
is one thing about W&L which detracts
from the otherwise attractive picture. I
have been continually frustrated by the
antediluvian view of women that a great
many students hold. Don’t allow
yourself to get trapped in the logical
fallacy that the W&L ‘‘gentleman’’ is

body. W&L belongs to the students and
alumni who are represented by the
Trustees; the faculty and administration
should rightly be considered employees.
Unfortunately, it seems this order has
been reversed during my four years as
the students are subject to the whims of
a faculty and administration which do
not, but should, answer to alumni.
What distinguishes our University is
adherence to a longstanding tradition in-
itiated by General Lee of developing
young men who are accountable for
their actions. Taking away their ability
to control the direction of the Universi-
ty will, in the long run, weaken the
institution.

In spite of my previous remarks, I
have enjoyed my years at Washington
and Lee and, if in the position of
deciding on colleges, would choose it
again. Its size remains its primary asset
with a low faculty-student ratio. On
numerous occasions, I spoke with pro-
fessors who assisted me with career choi-
ces. College life was fun, but now it’s
time to face the real world!

someone who acts honorably. Rather,
my experience leads me to believe that
a great many of these gentlemen refrain
from lying, cheating, and stealing, but
the line is drawn there. Perhaps if more
attention were focused on what con-
stitutes sexual harassment, sexual bat-
tery, and date rape, then more
‘‘sentlemen’’ would refrain out of fear
of possible repercussions, if not out of
a commitment to honor.

All in all, my four years at W&L
have taught me a great deal about life
and how to live it. I will always hold a
special place in my heart for W&L, and
I have a feeling that I’ll treasure my
W&L years a lot more as I get older.
Would I do it again? You bet.

 

 

 

Authority
And Power

by Louis W. Hodges

Uganda, had immense power. He told people

to go, and they went. He told people to do,
and they did. He told them to torture, to maim, to
mutilate, to destroy—and they obeyed. They follow-
ed his every wish. Why? Because he had power; and
because he had power, they feared him. Raw power
to determine the lives of others is rooted ultimately
in fear.

I di Amin, tyrant and totalitarian dictator of

 

Louis W. Hodges is Fletcher Otey Thomas professor of religion at
Washington and Lee and University chaplain. This article is adapted
Jrom the sermon he delivered at this year’s baccalaureate service.

Mother Theresa of Calcutta, world nurse and
reliever of human suffering, has no power. She, in-
stead, has authority. Her followers, too, obey her
wishes. Why? Not out of fear, but out of respect,
gratitude, and love. Her name and her authority
will linger long after Idi Amin is forgotten.

Pontius Pilate, ancient procurator of Palestine,
had great power over Israel. Jesus of Nazareth had
none. He had authority. The name of Pilate would
not be remembered today if he had not seen to
Jesus’ death. Power fades. Authority endures.

It is a general fact of the human condition:
Power goes with the office; authority has to be
earned through service. This is true, for example, in
the world of business. Consider the manager of a
business enterprise. She is put in place by boards,
not by the people she is appointed to manage. She
has power over people. She can hire them and fire
them, promote them and demote them, nurture
them or wither them. Power over others simply goes
with the job to which she is assigned.

But if the manager is to have authority as well,
she must gain the respect of those she is to manage.
Her primary duty is to look after their needs, to
care for them—in short, to be their servant. The
manager who is a true servant is able to wield
power because the office is backed by the authority
that roots in servanthood.

Notice that the same is true of teachers.
Teachers are put in place by others than those they
are to teach. Power goes with the office. They can
determine what students read and think about on
the job. They can assign grades, delay graduation,
even expel. But if teachers are to have lasting in-
fluence, they must gain authority. They must serve
their students, meet their students’ needs. They
must take their students seriously as human beings
who are ends in themselves, not mere means to the
teachers’ own career goals. If teachers do serve
well, students will admire and respect them in turn.

Just as the good teacher is first of all a servant
to students, so too are presidents, deans, and staffs.
That is why universities have deans and other ad-
ministrators. They are the faculty’s servants, not
their bosses. They are to help the faculty also to be
good servants.

In government, power and authority appear in
strange mixes. In totalitarian states, immense power
resides in the rulers. Because unbridled power tends
to corrupt those who wield it, dictators seldom
come to possess authority. Their names are soon
forgotten. In democratic states rulers are put in
seats of power largely because of the authority they
have earned. But in democracy, too, power goes
with the job and authority has to be earned through
serving.

 

 

W&L

1]

 

 

well illustrated in the story of David, King

of Israel in about 1000 B.C. And this story
adds another dimension to the thesis I propose: It
shows servanthood in relation to the Lord God
almighty, Yahweh. David originally came to the
throne because of his authority among the people.
He soon began, however, to ignore the limits of his
power. He took personal interest in a beautiful
woman, Bathsheba, whose husband, Uriah, was a
soldier in David’s army. David brought her to his
bed, and ere long she became pregnant. That was
more than a little bad, because Uriah had not been
home for some months. David sought to use his
power to get out of his trouble. He ordered Uriah
home on furlough. But lo and behold, Uriah refus-
ed to go home to Bathsheba. David’s next
manipulative use of raw power was to order Uriah
to the front line in what was essentially a suicide
mission. Uriah was killed in battle, and David took
Bathsheba as his own.

But it did not end there. A peasant prophet of
the Lord, Nathan by name, knew of the king’s evil
deeds. On the street one day Nathan told David a
story. It was a story about a rich man and a poor
man. The rich man had many sheep in his flock,
the finest in the land. The poor man had only one
sheep, a prize ewe, his only real possession. The
rich man, Nathan told David, one day stole the
prize ewe from the poor man, added it to his flock,
and had the poor man killed. David became incens-
ed at this injustice, whereupon Nathan said: ‘‘You,
O king, are that rich man.’’

David’s response was surprising: He repented, he
fasted, and he ‘‘lay all night upon the earth.”’

Now why would the most powerful king in all
the history of Israel repent at the behest of a mere
citizen? Can you imagine that of a modern Middle-
Eastern potentate? Can you imagine it of George
Bush? It is absolutely astonishing that the king
responded so properly to the peasant. Why did he?
It was that Nathan had reminded him of the limits
of power, that his power had been conferred by
greater authority, the Lord God almighty, Yahweh.
David knew originally, then forgot, that Yahweh
called him to serve Israel, not to exploit it. Adultery
and then murder were not in Yahweh’s plan.

David was finally remembered in Israel as its
greatest king, not because of his power, but because
of the authority he regained through repentance and
service.

You in this graduating class will soon inherit
positions of power. Some of you will go immediate-
ly into the business world. There you will have
power over the lives of other human beings. Some
of you will enter the military and a position of

T he interplay between power and authority is

power therein. Others of you will enter professional
training, and upon obtaining that you will embark
upon a life of immense power over others.

But in every case, none of you will inherit
authority. That, you must earn.

aving now examined the conceptual matters
H of power, authority, and servanthood, I

turn to take a brief look at the world we
live in. Ours is a time when people seem largely
driven by the lust for power. The itch to serve, to
be a servant, is not strong in the general popula-
tion. We live in an age that has forgotten that ‘‘it is
more blessed to serve than to be served.’’ We live in
an age in which others will seek to use you as a
mere means to their own ends (the advancement of
their careers, growth of their wealth, pawns in their
game of self-aggrandizement). You must beware of
their guile; they can destroy you. You, in turn, are
destined to be sorely tempted to live by their rules
and to use others solely to promote your own
interests.

There is an example of gross corporate misuse
of power, right now, in our own back yard, the
coal mines in the southwest corner of Virginia. Pitt-
ston Coal Co. is engaged in an internal power
struggle between those in the company who mine
coal and those who own or manage. The fight has
been bitter, sometimes violent. Scabs cross picket
lines. People are desperate. Given the structure of
most modern corporations, workers have no power
as individuals. In the Pittston case, working people
banded together to protect themselves against such
hazards as black lung and against Pittston’s decision
to terminate the pensions and health-care plans of
former miners’ widows.

Pittston Coal’s past record of servanthood has
been seriously flawed. In February 1972 there was a
flood at a mining camp in West Virginia. Pittston
had for years dumped coal-waste refuse into a nar-
row hollow. The refuse eventually dammed up the
hollow, but it was not a scientifically designed dam.
It was clearly unsafe, a threat to the human beings
down the hollow. One night in February, the refuse
pile gave way. One hundred thirty million gallons of
black water and sludge poured down the narrow
gorge. A 30-foot-high wall of water eliminated 16
communities, destroyed 1,000 homes, and drowned
125 human beings—most of them miners’ families.
It is now known as ‘‘the Buffalo Creek Disaster.”’
How can some human beings—owners and
managers—put other human beings—the miners of
coal—at that kind of risk, just in the name of prof-
it? It boggles the mind and scorches the conscience.

It is no surprise, in this struggle for power, that
87 clergy from Greenwich, Conn., where Pittston’s

 

12

W&L

 

 

—

corporate offices are located, wrote an open letter
to Paul Douglas, Pittston’s CEO, condemning the
company’s performance. (And these were clergy
from establishment churches, such as the
Methodists, Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Congrega-
tionalists, and Baptists.) Some of the Christian
clergy in Southwest Virginia, chiefly Freewill Bap-
tists, are threatened with loss of job because of
their alliance with the miners. You and I can take
great pride that one of our very own, Uncas
McThenia, ’58, ’63L, of the law faculty, is often at
the mines too, standing tall with the miners, and
trying to heal and help. Given commitments (and
courage) like his to be a servant, hope for the
realignment of power in this world is not lost yet!

The modern lust for power is related to deeper
moral corruption. Ours is a time of narcissistic
hedonism, based on the proposition that happiness
and fulfillment come from self-indulgence in wealth
and the things it can buy. In one important sense,
your families, the University, our civilization, have
served you badly. We have allowed you to deceive
yourselves, to believe an illusion: that your life can
be complete, fulfilled, just by grabbing all you can.
Grab trinkets, grab good looks, grab leisure activi-
ty. And the way to do that is to climb to the top of
the power heap by stepping on the shoulders of
other human beings, by exploiting their labors.

You graduates have inherited power. By some
mystery and accident you were born to your par-
ticular parents, not in a starving household in
Bangladesh. Someone fed you and clothed you. You
were nurtured at home, in school, in church or
synagogue.

The learning you have received at Washington
and Lee gives you access to still more power. You
will move into some of the best jobs and positions
of influence. You will reap the harvest from fields
you did not plant.

In short, power and the capacity to gain more
have been put upon you. It goes with status.

The question remaining for each of you, then, is
what will you do with what has come to you as a
gift? Will you gratefully acknowledge your debts to
others, your dependence upon them? Will you seek
to be their servant?

Coming from me on this occasion, of course,
this sounds like just more commencement oratory.
One of your own has said it better than I. The
following is an excerpt from a letter to the editor,

_ published in the May 4 edition of the Ring-tum Phi:

 

Ted Ludwig greets his wife and children before the baccalaureate
service. (Photo by Mathew Horridge, ’89.)

 

My education was not a bootstrap effort. It
was a very precious gift that was given to me
by many, many people. . . .Not only did I not
pay for my education, but I was helped by
other people every step of the way; I have even
been helped by a number of people no longer
living whose writings and thinking live on in
books.

Having been given this wonderful gift,
should I now believe that it is my right to a
higher-paying job? I do not think so. Instead, I
have a greater responsibility. I have been given
much. Now I should be able to be a better
giver, not a better getter. It is my sincere hope
that we, the members of the class of ’89, will
graduate thankfully and able to be better ser-
vants, rather than better paid members of the
elite.

Sincerely,
Ted Ludwig, Class of ’89

.

 

 

 

The Generals’

Newest Recruits

by Mike Stachura, ’86

Catherine Christian still recalls the
very first goal she scored as a member
of the Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team.

It was a chilly, windy day in late
April 1986, and the W&L women had
traveled to Blacksburg to play Virginia
Tech. It was the premiere performance
for the novice Washington and Lee
team, which had been formed just weeks
before. They were an inexperienced
bunch, and it showed. Tech dominated
the game from the opening whistle and
pelted W&L’s defense with shot after
shot. As Christian puts it, ‘‘we were get-
ting killed.’’

Midway through the game, the Tech
players stormed once again into
Washington and Lee territory and made
yet another shot at the goal. Then came
the moment Catherine Christian will
never forget.

‘“‘The ball just bounced off my
stomach,’’ she says. ‘‘And it went into
our goal.”’

Thanks in part to Christian’s
assistance, Virginia Tech won that game
by a score of 7-0.

It was, to say the least, an in-
auspicious beginning for women’s soc-
cer at Washington and Lee, a beginning
that was more or less typical of the birth
of women’s athletics at the newly
coeducated school. All told that year,
the W&L women won just two of 27
contests. The soccer team was outscored
19-2 in its only three games, the
women’s tennis team lost nearly half its
matches by 9-0 scores, and the women’s
swimming team didn’t even have enough
members to complete a relay team.
Some even suggested the nickname for
the W&L women’s teams should be ‘‘the
Lady Generals.’’

Things have changed.

In a period of remarkable growth
and turnaround, the Washington and

14 W&L

 

The Birth of Women’s Athleti cS

 

 

Ashley Gray, a rising sophomore, takes the
ball for the Generals with support from Tracy
Williams, a 1989 graduate.

Lee women’s athletics program has risen
to great heights in just four short years.
The soccer team that scored goals on
itself in 1986 finished last season as one
of the top seeds in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament. The
tennis team that struggled through a 1-8
opening year in 1986 won 38 of its 43
dual matches in the last two years and
captured the ODAC championship in
April. And the swim team that couldn’t
put a relay foursome in the pool in the
winter of ’86 has won the last two
ODAC swimming titles and produced
two NCAA Division III All-Americans
this past year.

And no one says anything about the
Lady Generals anymore.

The W&L women’s athletics pro-
gram, as the jargon goes, ‘‘has arrived.”’
What began with three sports and a
prayer is now an eight-sport program
that has produced two All-Americans,

i
on

two ODAC Players of the Year, 25 /

ODAC selections, and a .575 winnir g

percentage this past year alone.

Arrived, indeed. But how did it hap.
pen so fast? As the numbers and the
memories from Year One indicate, the
road to the recent successes has beer
anything but smooth. And despite the

  
 
   
   
  
  
  

victories and the honors, the introduc-

tion of coeducation to W&L athletics

 
 

has not occurred entirely without —

controversy.

Still, it’s hard to argue with the suc-
cess of coeducation. And the athletic
program is one of the more striking ex-

amples of that success. ¥

‘*T think we’ve done all that we
set up as goals,’’ says assistant athletic
director Cinda Rankin, who has steered
the athletic department through
coeducation since her arrival in
February 1985.

‘‘The programs are established, and
they’re running smoothly. Things real-
ly went much faster than I thought
possible. I never expected an ODAC
championship after three years.”’

The program grew slowly at first.
W&L was nearly in trouble from the
start, when the NCAA ruled it would be
ineligible for national championships in
any sport if it could not field four
women’s teams. Rankin’s research in-
dicated student interest in cross country,
swimming, and tennis. But coming up
with a fourth was a tall order.

Finally, a makeshift women’s golf
team was put together, and one of the
women, Alston Parker, actually com-
peted in a dual match. The NCAA even-
tually relaxed its four-sport requirement
after realizing that W&L was in its first
year of coeducation.

Rankin had hoped for competitive
programs in that first year, and while
the 2-25 overall record might not appear
to fit the bill, there was substantial

  

a

growth. W&L recorded its first win ever |

in a women’s sport on Oct. 26, 1985,
when the Generals came in one point
better than West Virginia State in a cross
country meet. W&L’s top runner,
Carolyn Arbogast, even went on to
compete in the NCAA Division III
regional meet.

But the real shocker that year occur-
red in the winter, when swimmer
Elizabeth Miles qualified for the NCAA
Division III national championships and
then finished in the top 16 in both the
500-yard and 1,650-yard freestyle
events. The strong finish earned All-
America honors for Miles and gave
women’s athletics at W&L a much-
needed shot in the arm.

Yet perhaps the most dramatic ac-
complishment that year was the develop-
ment of the women’s soccer team, which
materialized literally overnight, thanks
to the efforts of two students—
Catherine Christian and Alexa Salzman.

Both Christian and Salzman wanted
to play college-level soccer. But when
they approached Rankin with the idea,
Christian explains, ‘‘she told us that
there wasn’t much interest in soccer
shown on the surveys. I remember her
telling us that if we wanted a team, we
would have to get 20 or 25 names to her
the next day.”’

Undaunted, the two students spent
the evening roaming the halls of their
dormitory and picking up recruits. ‘‘We
just decided that it would be a chance
to have a good time,’’ Christian says.
“You didn’t have to be a great player.
When we got out there, Rolf [Piranian]
was really patient with us, and I think
that allowed us to develop at a good
rate.’’

Piranian, W&L’s successful men’s
coach, volunteered his services in the
spring of ’86 and ’87 to help start the
women’s program. It was that sort of

quality coaching, Rankin says, that en-
sured the success of women’s athletics
at W&L.

**We have excellent coaches,’’ she
believes. ‘“They gave our teams the op-
portunities to develop at a steady pace.
The philosophy has always been to ap-
proach the women’s teams as legitimate
programs in their own right, and I think
that has led to their success.’’

Progress measured in inches during
that first year was measured in feet the
following year. Participation nearly
doubled in Year Two, and W&L’s

. i ais .~
ee eee eee re 3} r}

women’s teams went from winning
seven percent of their contests to win-
ning more than 47 percent of their
matchups.

The following year was even better.
Three W&L female athletes were named
ODAC Player of the Year in their
respective sports in 1987-88. Paige
Cason, a freshman cross country run-
ner, and Jean Stroman, a freshman ten-
nis player, joined the veteran Miles as
recipients of the league’s top honor.

That year Washington and Lee also
earned its first women’s conference ti-

 

tle, as the Generals defeated Sweet Briar
by 40 points at the ODAC swimming
championships. The women’s tennis
team, which finished with a stunning
18-1 record, came within a point of win-
ning W&L’s second conference title later
that same year. And two more sports—
lacrosse, and track and field—were add-
ed to W&L’s growing program.

The 1988-89 academic year provid-
ed more of the same. Of W&L’s six
ODAC women’s teams, five finished in
the upper division and two brought
home conference titles. Washington and

 

Ann Gregory, a rising junior from Springfield, Va., controls the ball under pressure.

Lee’s claim of 25 All-Conference selec-
tions was more than any other ODAC
school.

In addition to their athletic ac-
complishments, the women have excell-
ed in the classroom. Thirty-six of the 82
students named to the Academic-
Athletic Honor Roll last year were
women, and the women’s soccer team
posted a team grade-point average of
3.41, the highest ever attained by any
team.

Women’s athletics at W&L have
prospered beyond anyone’s expecta-

W&L 15

tions. But though it has come sudden-
ly, success did not occur by chance or
accident. On the contrary, it was the
result of serious commitment to a
vibrant program, a commitment made
not only by the University’s administra-
tion and its coaches, but by the women
students themselves.

‘*As trite as it might sound, I think
a lot of it had to do with our spirit,”’
Christian says. ‘‘We weren’t intimidated
by the odds of having to start a team
from scratch. It was just a matter of
knowing that if it went downhill, it was
really our fault. But we also knew we
had the benefit of the doubt, too. We
had patient coaches, and we weren’t ex-
pected to do great things from the
start.”’

There was a clear plan to women’s
athletics at W&L, a patient but ag-
gressive blueprint that Rankin and
others methodically worked from and
still do. That plan first involved a clear
and full commitment to establishing a
women’s athletics program right from
the start at the coeducated W&L.

‘‘One important reason for our suc-
cess is that we have been able to have
the administrative and financial support
necessary to establish the program,”’
Rankin explains. ‘‘It wasn’t a matter of,
“‘We’re going to go coed, and I suppose
we should have women’s athletics, too.’
The programs we have were chosen to
fit the W&L student. Now, when you
look at W&L in comparison to the other
programs in the ODAC, we have as
strong a program as any, and the others
have had twice as many years to
establish theirs.’’

The chief component of W&L’s
athletic plan has been a careful mix of
patience and aggressiveness in building
the new program. The number of
women’s sports has doubled over the
last four years, growing from four the
first year to eight at present. But, as
Rankin says, each sport was matched
carefully with student interest.

Volleyball, lacrosse, indoor track,
and outdoor track all came into being
because surveys showed the interest was
there. The important thing, Rankin ex-
plains, is not the actual number of
sports, but their level of success and
improvement.

‘*Just having a certain number is not
our goal at all,’’ she says. ‘‘Some peo-

16 W&L

ple ask why we don’t have an equal
number of women’s sports and men’s
sports. Well, we actually have more op-
portunities on a per capita basis for
women than we do for men. We want
to stabilize the programs we have and
give them a good foundation.’’

That is precisely why new sports
have been nurtured slowly. Soccer,
volleyball, lacrosse, and track and field
all began as developmental varsity pro-
grams, rather than as club teams. In this
way, programs received strong support
from the athletic department in terms of
coaching and resources, while athletes
had the chance to earn departmental
recognition (such as certificates and
monograms), all without the pressure of
having to compete for conference cham-
pionships right from the start.

There are other reasons why W&L’s
women athletes have done so well,
believes swimming coach Page
Remillard.

‘*A philosophy evolved from the
men right from the start,’’ Remillard
says. ‘‘They came to me and said, ‘We
want a women’s program as good as
ours; we don’t want a token program.’
And I also think that was exactly what
the women who came here were look-
ing for. They want the same sort of
athletic environment as they found in
their academic setting.’’

Remillard says the first year’s three-
member team adopted the same hard-
core training regimen as the men, a
routine that usually includes weight lift-
ing in the early morning hours before
classes and strenuous workouts in the
pool after classes.

The result after four years, he says,
is that the ‘‘typical female in the swim-
ming program is just a swimmer, not a
women’s swimmer.”’

Good coaching hasn’t hurt, either.
In the last four years, W&L has earned
ODAC Coach of the Year honors three
times. In addition to Remillard, soccer
coach Jan Hathorn and former tennis
coach Bill Washburn, ’40, have been
named the league’s top coach in their
sports.

Fortunately, good coaches just hap-
pened to be in the right place at the right
time. Washburn, a longtime W&L ad-
ministrator who had coached the men’s
team in the ’50s and ’60s, happily
volunteered his services to get women’s

tennis off the ground.

‘*He knew how to keep them in-
terested and happy,’’ says Rankin. ‘‘He
also knew how to raise their expecta-
tions, and he kept bringing them
along.’’

 

Teresa Southard, a rising senior from Dayton,
Va., was named to the 1989 ITCA Scholar-
Athlete Team.

When W&L needed someone to

oversee the volleyball program, Lex- |
ington resident Susan Dittman was
available and perfect for the job. A

standout collegiate player, Dittman had
coached high school teams to a couple

of Ohio sectional championships. Mean- |

while, Jim Phemister, a professor in the
School of Law and an experienced long-

distance runner, volunteered to assist the __

women’s cross country team.

When W&L looked to add its second i
staff a

full-time female athletic
member—someone who could coach

soccer and lacrosse—the athletic depart-
ment staff found Jan Hathorn, who had
previously expressed an interest in work-
ing at Washington and Lee. Hathorn  _

had coached her Denison field hockey _
and lacrosse teams to the national tour-
nament five straight years and was the ~
MVP of her high school soccer team. —

Still, as the old saying goes, all the
coaching in the world won’t win youa

game if you don’t have the right players.

 

It is the athletes themselves, their
coaches say, who deserve much of the
credit for the swift rise of W&L’s
women’s program.

‘‘These are people whose standards
are so high, and yet they are quality,
good people, too,’’ says John Tucker,
head coach of the women’s track team.
‘‘They are truly competitors, and they
are not intimidated about starting
something from the ground level. They
don’t really know the rigors of training,
but their willingness to try is tremen-
dously encouraging.’’

But the women’s athletic program at
Washington and Lee did not develop
within a vacuum. Coeducation has af-
fected all aspects of the University. And
perhaps no one has felt those effects
more strongly than the other group of
WA&L athletes—the men.

Attendance has increased dra-
matically at nearly all home athletic
events in the last few years, and many
attribute that change to the presence of
women on campus. Too, there general-
ly seems to be more enthusiasm about
sports, both inside and outside the
athletic department.

Verne Canfield, who has served as
W&L’s basketball coach for the last
quarter century, sees something new,
something good. Since coeducation, he
says, he is able to recruit male athletes
who would have been lost to him before,
because they wouldn’t have considered
attending a single-sex institution.

**] think we have a more normal at-
mosphere now,’’ says Canfield, whose
team went 14-0 this past season in front
of large, vocal, coed home crowds. ‘‘It’s
given the campus a different look. It’s
been a healthy change. It’s been a
positive influence, and I think the guys
stay On campus more now.”’

Remillard and Tucker, who work
with coeducational teams in track and
swimming, see coeducation’s contribu-
tions in a different positive light. The
women and the men are each other’s
cheerleaders, and training together tends
to make all of them more competitive.

‘By training together, our weaker
end became that much better,’’
Remillard says of his men’s team.
‘*There is a little chauvinism among the
guys to the extent that none of them
wants to get beat by a woman. And with
some of our better women, like

Elizabeth [Miles], that can be pretty
tough to do. They train with her as an
athlete, not as a female.’’

Tucker says the interaction of the
men’s and women’s track teams serves
as a powerful motivator.

**It’s kind of a community thing,’’
he believes. ‘‘With the guys right there,
the girls see them train and they see the
results they get. I also think the guys try
harder knowing the girls are there. The
support is terrific.’’

But such views are not universally
shared. Some believe coeducation has
had an adverse impact on men’s
athletics. The number of male freshmen
has decreased by 27 percent since the fall
of 1984, causing the pool of prospective
male athletes to shrink. Too, a dramatic
increase in applications to Washington
and Lee has led to tougher admissions
standards. What once seemed a ‘‘safe’’
applicant is now on the borderline, and
those on the borderline five years ago
(and for some sports, prospective

1989 graduates Vanessa Hartman, an All-
ODAC first team selection, and Amy Smith

athletes often fall in this area) no longer
have much chance of being admitted to
W&L.

The business of recruiting prospec-
tive student-athletes has simply chang-
ed, believes Dennis Daly, assistant foot-
ball coach and former men’s lacrosse
coach.

‘‘Now that we’re coed, we sell
ourselves as the best academic institu-
tion that can compete for the national
championship in lacrosse,’’ he explains.

 

‘With our higher standards, we’re at-
tracting better students, but better
students have more options to choose
from. Being as selective as we are, we
actually have less of the pie to choose
from, and yet there are more schools
vying for that piece of the pie.’’

The increasing academic standards
make recruiting more difficult, but Da-
ly, who was head lacrosse coach at
Amherst when it made the switch to
coeducation, expects those pressures to
level off.

The women’s programs may also ex-
perience a sort of plateau in the near
future. During the first four years of
women’s athletics at W&L, not one
team lost any proven players to gradua-
tion. In 1989-90, those teams will have
to do without some of their all-
conference players for the first time.
Too, with their growing success, the
women’s teams are beginning to
schedule tougher opponents. Already
the women swimmers are scheduling
meets against more established Division
III or even Division I programs because,
Remillard explains, ‘‘a lot of teams
won’t swim against our men if they can’t
swim our women, too.’’ And with com-
petition scarce in women’s track, Tucker
often sends his athletes to compete
against Division I opponents such as
Duke, Virginia Tech, and Georgia.

Yet the future continues to look
bright for W&L’s women’s teams. ‘‘Our
record may not reflect the improvement
we’re making,’’ Susan Dittman predicts
for the 1989-90 volleyball season. ‘‘But
I think we will get better than we were
last year.”’

For the past four years, Washington
and Lee’s women athletes and their
coaches could always claim that they
were ‘‘better than we were last year.’’
Things have changed a great deal since
the days of not having enough swimmers
to fill out a relay team and scoring goals
against one’s own team.

‘**I was really impressed to see the
program grow so much,’’ says Chris-
tian. ‘‘We are bringing in really good
players now, and we’ve really had great
coaching. I don’t know how fast other
schools have done it, but I know hav-
ing such a good athletic program to
begin with had a lot to do with our
success.

‘*T was just happy to be a part of it.”’

W&L 17

The W&L Gazette

McHenry resigns as athletic director

William D. McHenry, ’54,
director of athletics and chair-
man of the department of
physical education at Wash-
ington and Lee, has resigned his
post as director of athletics.

McHenry, who has held both
positions since 1971, will take a
one-year leave of absence during
the 1989-90 academic year before
returning to his job as chairman
of the physical education
department.

A search committee has been
appointed to find McHenry’s
successor. The committee’s
members are William J. Watt,
professor of chemistry, who
serves as chairman; Gary R.
Fallon, associate professor of
physical education and head
football coach; H. Laurent
Boetsch Jr., associate professor
of romance languages and
associate dean of the College (of
arts and sciences); Cinda L.
Rankin, assistant director of
athletics; Thomas H. Jones,
associate professor of physical
education and head trainer; and
Barry F. Machado, professor of
history and chairman of the
University’s Athletic Committee.

William M. Hartog, director
of admissions, and Richard

18 W&L

 

Miller, associate director of
athletics, are ex officio members
of the committee.

Miller will also serve as in-
terim director of athletics until
McHenry’s successor is found.

**Bill’s wonderful, outgoing
personality and admirable values
have given great strength to the
work of our University,’’ said
President John D. Wilson. ‘‘I
am confident that Bill’s ex-
perience and character will lead
to a stronger department of
physical education and a
revitalized intramural program.”’

A native of Swarthmore,
Pa., McHenry holds a master’s
degree from the University of
Pennsylvania. He coached foot-
ball, swimming, and track and
directed the intramural program
at Pennsylvania Military College
before moving to Williams Col-
lege in 1958, where he served as
coach of the lacrosse and foot-
ball teams.

In 1961, McHenry was
named director of athletics and
chairman of the department of
physical education at Lebanon
Valley College. He remained in
that post until 1971, when he
joined the W&L faculty.

He served as head football
coach at W&L from 1973 to
1977, when he resigned to devote
his full time to administrative
duties. He has served on many
committees of the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association and
is currently chairman of the
NCAA Division III football
committee. He was recently
elected chairman of the NCAA
committee on committees.

**We have accomplished a
great deal in the last 18 years,
and I am extremely proud of the
efforts of all the coaches and
staff I have worked with,”’
McHenry said. ‘‘I leave the posi-
tion of athletic director with no
regrets and look forward to the
challenge of the future.”’

 

 

men’s lacrosse coach.

athletic director.

 

Lacrosse coach Daly is reassigned duties
in department of athletics

Dennis A. Daly, head coach of men’s lacrosse at
Washington and Lee since 1984, has been reassigned duties
within the athletic department and will no longer serve as head

Daly will remain at W&L as an assistant professor of
physical education. He has joined the University’s football
coaching staff as an offensive assistant and will assume other
duties in the future, according to Richard Miller, acting

In Daly’s six seasons at W&L, he had an overall record
of 30-49. His best season was in 1987, when the Generals
finished 11-4 and reached the semifinals of the NCAA Divi-
sion III national championships. His record during the last
two years was 6-20, including last season’s mark of 4-9.

Daly spent five years as a coach at Amherst College and
three at Middlebury College before coming to W&L.

A search for Daly’s successor will begin soon.

 

 

Library receives collection of Lee letters

A collection of original let-
ters of Robert E. Lee and his
family has been given to
Washington and Lee by the Lee-
Jackson Foundation of Char-
lottesville, Va.

At the same time, the foun-
dation also donated to Virginia
Military Institute a group of let-
ters written by Thomas J.
(Stonewall) Jackson, who taught
at VMI from 1851 to 1861.

**T am pleased that the Lee-
Jackson Foundation was able to
make these significant donations
to the two distinguished Lex-
ington colleges so especially
associated with the two famous
Civil War generals,’’ said
William P. Moore Jr., president
of the Lee-Jackson Foundation,
in announcing the gift.

The gift to Washington and
Lee, which represents one of the
largest donations of Lee
materials received by W&L in re-

cent years, encompasses 73 let-
ters and documents written by
Lee and members of his family.
They span a broad period, from
the Mexican War through Lee’s
tenure as superintendent of West
Point to the years spent in Lex-
ington following the Civil War.

Also found in the collection
are letters by other important
historical figures, such as
Margaret Junkin Preston, Gen.
P.G.T. Beauregard, Gen. D.H.
Hill, and Gen. Joseph E.
Johnston.

The Lee-Jackson Foundation
amassed the collection of letters
primarily during the 1950s, when
Virginia businessman Jay W.
Johns was its president. Johns
founded the Stonewall Jackson
Memorial, the foundation’s
predecessor, and served as presi-
dent from its inception in 1953
until his death in 1974.

 

—E——

Annual Fund surpasses goal, has new director and chairman

The Washington and Lee
Annual Fund exceeded its
1988-89 goal for contributions to
the University and set records for
giving and for the number of
donors for the fourth con-
secutive year.

The Annual Fund, which
consists only of unrestricted gifts
to be used for the University’s
current operating budget,
jumped more than 7.8 percent,
from $1,895,784 to $2,034,763.
The total number of alumni,
parents, and friends contributing
to the fund also increased from
7,129 to 7,229.

‘*All of us are pleased at the
record performance of the An-
nual Fund,’’ said James M.
Ballengee, *48L, rector of the
Board of Trustees. ‘‘Once again,
our W&L alumni, friends, and
parents have recognized the im-
portance of supporting this
outstanding institution.’’

In addition to the increases in
overall contributions and
donors, the Annual Fund also
experienced strong gains in other
categories.

e Alumni contributions
were up 5.7 percent, from
$1,766,456 to $1,857,838, and
the number of alumni donors hit
a record 6,676.

e The amount given by
friends of the University increas-
ed by almost 35 percent, from
$29,006 to $39,147.

¢ Giving by parents of cur-

rent and former students increas-
ed by more than 37 percent,
from $100,322 to a record
$137,778.

e Contributions by the Lee
Associates, who donate $1,000
or more to W&L, rose 7.76 per-
cent to $1,157,559; the total
number of Lee Associates con-
tributing this year rose to 573
from 561.

e Gifts from members of

the Colonnade Club, who con-
tribute $100 to $999, increased
by 9.78 percent to a record
$795,404.

e The average gift by
undergraduate alumni was $291,
up from $281 from last year. The
average gift to the Annual Fund
by law school alumni was $225,
also up $10 from last year. These
amounts set new records for giv-
ing to the University.

New director, chairman named

 

McMahon

Timothy G. McMahon, ’87,
former admissions counselor at
W&L, has been appointed acting
director of the Annual Fund. He
assumed the post July 1.

‘*We are delighted that Tim
is joining the development
team,’’ said Lex O. McMillan,
’72, director of development.
‘*His experience in admissions
will serve him well in fund rais-
ing.”’

McMahon joined W&L’s ad-
missions office in July 1987. A

journalism and German major at
Washington and Lee, he
graduated magna cum laude,
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa, and
received the Distinguished Senior
Award in Journalism and the
Jim Stump Prize in German.

Meanwhile, Mason T. New,
62, has been named chairman of
the Annual Fund. He succeeds J.
Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, who
has held the voluntary post since
1987.

New is managing partner
with Branch, Cabell & Co. in
Richmond. He served as vice
chairman of the Annual Fund
for the past two years.

‘*We are very pleased to have
Mason leading our volunteer ef-
fort with the Annual Fund,”’
said McMillan. ‘‘He brings
energy and enthusiasm, as well
as a solid business background,
to this crucial position.”’

School of Law receives gift from estate of Thornton Berry, ’34L

The Washington and Lee School of Law has
received a gift of approximately $215,000 from the
estate of the late Thornton G. Berry Jr., ’34L, of

Charleston, W.Va.

Berry, who died in November 1987, served as
justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia from 1958 until his retirement in 1976.
At the time of his death, he was counsel to the law
firm of Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Farrell.

Approximately $50,000 of the bequest will be
used for law school professorships. The balance
of the gift—about $160,000—will endow two

outstanding students as part of the law school’s
merit-based scholarship program. The fellowships,
which will carry the name of Thornton Berry, will

render a stipend of $4,000 a year to each recipient.

students.’’

named research fellowships, to be awarded to

‘Judge Berry was a distinguished and loyal
graduate of the School of Law,”’ said Randall P.
Bezanson, dean of the law school, in announcing
the gift. ‘‘His generosity will allow us to under-
take a variety of important initiatives. We are par-
ticularly pleased to have his name associated with
two prestigious fellowships for our most talented

 

 

First phase
completed
in long-range plan

Washington and Lee
University has completed
the first step in an ex-
haustive long-range plan-
ning process.

During the 1988-89
academic year, nearly all
members of the faculty
and administration, to-
gether with large numbers
of students and campus
visitors, have been engag-
ed in the process, which
attempts to determine the
course of the University
during the next decade
and into the 21st century
as well.

The project has been
divided into nine main
areas of study, encom-
passing the work of each
of Washington and Lee’s
25 academic departments.
These areas in turn have
been divided into nearly
50 subcommittees.

A draft of the long-
range plan will be review-
ed by the Board of
Trustees at its fall and
winter meetings.

‘*The faculty took very
seriously its charge to plan
for the next 10 years in the
life of the University, and
it has produced an ex-
cellent planning docu-
ment,’’ said John W.
Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs and
director of the long-range
planning process.

‘*It very clearly charts
a course for the last
decade of the century that
will enhance Washington
and Lee’s standing as one
of the nation’s outstand-
ing academic insti-
tutions.”’

 

 

W&L

 

Admissions offices have strong year

Washington and Lee’s
School of Law had a banner year
in the field of admissions, ex-
periencing a 45 percent rise in the
number of applications for the
class of 1992.

The number of applicants in-
creased from 1,210 last year to
1,752 this year. The average
LSAT score of those accepted
rose from 38 to 40, and the
average grade-point average was
up from 3.25 to 3.35.

Most law schools around the
country also showed an increase
in the number of applications
this year, but they were general-
ly in the range of 15 to 20 per-
cent, says M. Susan Palmer,
*85L, assistant dean for admis-
sions in the School of Law.

Palmer attributes Washing-
ton and Lee’s phenomenal surge
in applications to two factors.
**For one thing, we’re presenting
ourselves and marketing our-
selves better these days,’’ she
says, alluding to award-winning
recruitment publications current-
ly in use in the School of Law.

**And, there is a heightened
consumerism at play,’’ Palmer
continues. ‘*Today’s applicants
are making more discriminating
choices, and the beneficiaries of
that are smaller law schools,
which provide unique advan-
tages to their students.’’

Palmer is particularly pleas-
ed about the success of minority
recruitment efforts. The School
of Law received 153 applications
from minority students this year,
which was up from 94 the year
before. Twenty of those students
matriculated with the first-year
class.

Many of the incoming
students bring varied work ex-
perience to law school. The class
includes a licensed nuclear power
plant operator, a nightclub disc
jockey, a college philosophy pro-
fessor, and a fire protection
systems designer.

Freshman class strong

The Office of Admissions for
Washington and Lee’s under-
graduate divisions received 3,217

20 W&L

applications for 400 places in the
class of 1993. That was five
fewer than it received the pre-
vious year.

‘*The national scene would
suggest that applications to col-
leges and universities throughout
the country have declined,’’ ex-
plains Dan N. Murphy, ’73,
associate director of admissions
at W&L. ‘We are at least hold-
ing our own in a trend of decline
among many of our peer institu-
tions.’”’

Although the number of ap-
plications did not increase, Mur-
phy says, ‘‘we did make strides
in terms of class rank, standar-
dized test scores, and personal
qualities of the applicants.’’

For example, 33 of the in-
coming freshmen are National
Merit finalists, and 25 finished
first or second in their high
school graduating class.

Sixty-one were presidents or
vice presidents of their high
school class or student body; 95
were presidents of a major stu-
dent organization; 100 were team
captains; 58 served as editors of
their newspaper, yearbook, or
literary magazine; 194 were
members of the National Honor
Society; and 63 belonged to the
Key Club.

The freshmen come from 39
states or territories and eight
foreign countries and represent
324 secondary schools.

Fifteen of the entering
students are black. The Office of
Admissions received 80 applica-
tions from minority students this
year; that number represented an
increase of 23 percent over the
previous year.

Another important indicator
of a healthy admissions picture
is the ‘‘yield,’’ or the percentage
of accepted applicants who ac-
tually choose to enroll. That
figure, Murphy says, is also on
the rise.

Murphy adds that interest in
Washington and Lee among
children of alumni remains
strong. ‘‘Children of alumni
continue to be offered admission
at a rate twice that of the regular
applicant pool,’’ he says.

 

run automobile accident.

daughter’s death.

scene and is unknown.

 

Reward offered in hit-and-run case

Lexington police are continuing their investigation into the
death last March of a Washington and Lee student in a hit-and-

To aid in the investigation, the victim’s parents, D. Emerson
Scarborough and Lynn Wall Scarborough of Raleigh, N.C., have
offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and
conviction of the individual or individuals responsible for their

Mary Ashley Scarborough, who was a freshman at
Washington and Lee, was killed in Lexington on March 16 when
she was struck by an automobile. The driver of the car left the

 

 

John steps down as dean of students

 

Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of
students at Washington and Lee
since 1969, will resign from that
post at the end of the 1989-90
academic year to teach full time
in the University’s School of
Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

In addition to his position as
dean of students, John also
holds faculty status as a pro-
fessor of politics at W&L. After
resigning from his administrative
duties, he will take a one-year
sabbatical in the 1990-91
academic year before becoming
a full-time member of the Com-
merce School faculty in the fall
of 1991.

**During his tenure as dean
of students, Lewis John has
served faithfully and diligently to
meet the needs of Washington
and Lee and its students for 20
years,’’ said W&L President
John D. Wilson. ‘‘In this impor-
tant position at the University,
he has demonstrated his ability

 

to guide and influence young
men and women as well as main-
tain a personal interest in the
well-being of all of our students.
We look forward to having him
as a full-time member of the
faculty.’’

In 1963 John returned to his
alma mater as assistant dean of
students and director of financial
aid. He became dean of students
in 1969.

A former Fulbright scholar
and Woodrow Wilson fellow, he
holds a master’s degree from
Princeton University and a doc-
torate from Syracuse University.
He is a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Epsilon, and
Beta Gamma Sigma.

He has been active in the Na-
tional Association of Student
Personnel Administrators
(NASPA) and currently serves
on that organization’s board of
trustees. In 1982 he received
NASPA’s Distinguished Service
Award for ‘‘outstanding service
to the student personnel profes-
sion.”’

John is a past president of
the Virginia Association of Stu-
dent Personnel Administrators
and was the 1983 recipient of
its Outstanding Professional
Award.

In 1985 he was given the fifth
annual William Webb Pusey III
Award by Washington and Lee’s
executive committee for out-
standing service and dedication
to the University.

 

——

Two professors receive Fulbright awards

 

a
Rogers

Minor L. Rogers, Jessie Ball
duPont professor of religion at
Washington and Lee, and
Gregory H. Stanton, assistant
professor of law, have received
Fulbright scholar grants for the
1989-90 academic year.

Rogers will use the grant to
continue his research on med-
ieval Shin Buddhism at Ryukoku
University in Kyoto, Japan.
Stanton, meanwhile, will travel
to the University of Swaziland in
southeast Africa to lecture in law
and conduct research on the
Swazi legal system.

During the upcoming aca-
demic year, approximately 1,000
Americans will go abroad to lec-
ture or conduct research under
the auspices of the Fulbright pro-
gram. Established in 1946 by
congressional legislation in-
troduced by Sen. J. William
Fulbright of Arkansas, the pro-
gram is designed ‘‘to increase
mutual understanding between
the people of the United States
and the people of other coun-
tries.”” The grants are also
awarded to foreign nationals to

 

engage in similar activities in the
U.S.

A member of the W&L
faculty since 1972, Rogers holds
a doctorate in comparative
religion from Harvard. He is
also a graduate of Virginia
Theological Seminary and
Virginia Military Institute. He
was named to the duPont pro-
fessorship in 1984 and became
chairman of the religion depart-
ment that same year.

Stanton joined the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty in 1985.
He is a 1968 graduate of Oberlin
College and also holds degrees
from the University of Chicago,
Harvard Divinity School, and
the Yale Law School. Before
coming to Lexington, he work-
ed for Church World Service in
Cambodia and served in the
Peace Corps in West Africa.

The Fulbright Program is
funded and administered by the
U.S. Information Agency.
Financial support for the pro-
gram comes from the U.S. Con-
gress and the governments of 27
other nations.

 

Stanton

Nominee’s Name

Washington and Lee
Athletic Hall of Fame
Nomination Form for the Class of 1990

 

Nominee’s Address

 

 

Nominee’s W&L Class

 

Nominee’s W&L Sports

 

Submitted by: Name

 

Address

 

 

 

Clip and return to:
James Farrar Jr.
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

Hall of Fame weekend set for Sept. 22-23

Now is the time to make plans to attend Washington and Lee’s
Athletic Hall of Fame celebration later this month.

Five former W&L athletes—Ernest J. (Skip) Lichtfuss Jr., ’74,
the late Richard A. (Cap’n Dick) Smith, ’13, Gilbert Bocetti Jr.,
°52, Norman P. Iler, ’37, and Dominick A. Flora, ’58—will be in-
ducted into the Hall of Fame Sept. 22 and will be formally recognized
the following day during the Generals’ football contest with Centre.

More information about the Hall of Fame weekend may be ob-
tained by calling the Alumni Office at (703) 463-8464.

Asylum-seeking Soviet official lectures at W&L during Summer Scholars program

 

The day she announced her
intention to seek political asylum
in the United States, an editor
with the Soviet Union’s Ministry
of Culture spent the morning
in a Washington and Lee
classroom.

One Friday in early July,
Tatyana Agapova announced

that she was seeking political
asylum for herself and her
9-year-old daughter, Masha. A
few hours later, she was on the
Washington and Lee campus,
speaking to a Russian studies
class during W&L’s Summer
Scholars program for high
school students.

Although Agapova’s lecture
focused on the structure and
operation of the Soviet Ministry
of Culture and Soviet theatre,
she also talked about more per-
sonal matters during a question-
and-answer session.

**There is one reason I am
seeking political asylum, and she
is sitting right there,’’ Agapova
said, pointing to her daughter,

who was seated before her in the
classroom. ‘‘In the Soviet Union
I feared every moment for her
life [because her father is regard-
ed by the Soviet government as
a criminal]. I did not see another
way to dissolve the family pro-
blems.”’

Masha’s father, Anatoly
Antohin, is a Soviet playwright
who found political asylum in
the United States in 1980.

Agapova announced her in-
tention to seek asylum in a story
in the Roanoke Times & World-
News. That same day, letters
petitioning for asylum were sent
to President George Bush, the
Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the State Department,

and the offices of U.S. Sen. John
Warner, ’49, and Rep. Jim Olin
of the 6th District.

Agapova was optimistic that
her request would be granted,
although she acknowledged that
‘‘asking for asylum is a challenge
and insult to the Soviets.’’ Still,
she said, ‘‘we cannot return to
the Soviet Union.”’

She added, ‘‘The real results
of glasnost are very small. There
is the feeling that everything can
change in one minute. If Gor-
bachev goes, so does reform. I
don’t know what will happen
then. I hope Gorbachev remains
in power.

‘*T feel the fear in all the peo-
ple of the Soviet Union.’’

W&L 21

 

 

Honors, awards

Several members of the Washington and Lee community
were singled out for special recognition at the end of the
academic year.

e Christopher S. de Movellan, a 1989 graduate
from Lexington, Ky., and president of the student body
for the 1988-89 academic year, received the Frank
Johnson Gilliam Award, which is given to the student
who has made the most conspicuous contributions to
life at Washington and Lee.

de Movellan was a two-year letter-winner on the soc-
cer team and participated in the intramural athletic
program.

e Washington and Lee’s student newspaper, the
Ring-tum Phi, presented its annual awards for outstan-
ding service to Florence G. Cook, retiring secretary to
the journalism department; Earl T. Edwards Jr. and P.
Sue Ruley of the University’s computer center; Gladys
Steele, operator of Lexington’s shelter for the homeless;
and 1989 graduates Stephen Ingram of Kings Park,

WA&L license plates available in Virginia

Automobile license plates decorated with a Washington and Lee
logo are now available to drivers in Virginia.

For $25, drivers in the Commonwealth may order a specially
designed ‘‘CollegePlate,’’ which displays the Washington and Lee
wordmark and university crest.

For more information, drivers should contact their local office
of the Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles.

Admissions publication wins NSPRA award

One of Washington and Lee’s admissions publications has receiv-
ed an award from the National School Public Relations Association.

The publication, titled ‘‘Opportunities for Minority Students at
Washington and Lee,’’ received an award of merit in NSPRA’s 1988
School and College Publications Contest.

The brochure contained profiles of four current minority students
and two alumni.

 

N.Y., and Alston P. Parker of Thomasville, Ga.

 

 

Scholarship established for ministerial students

A new scholarship for Christian ministerial
students has been established at Washington and
Lee.

The Rev. and Mrs. Bruce F. Gannaway and
Miss Grace Gannaway Scholarship is designed for
students who intend to become Christian
ministers. The scholarship is also open to students
who plan to pursue lay careers in the church.

The scholarship was created by the Rev. Bruce
F. Gannaway, ’25, and his wife, Marian Walter
Gannaway, of Lakeland, Fla. It also honors Grace
Gannaway, the Rev. Gannaway’s sister, who died
last year.

The Rev. Gannaway received a bachelor of
divinity degree from Emory University’s Candler
School of Theology in 1930 and served as a
minister in the Florida Conference of the
Methodist Church until his retirement in 1972.

**This scholarship reflects admiration for a
man who served his church so faithfully for many
years,’’ said John W. Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs at Washington and Lee. ‘‘The
scholarship also makes it possible for other
students to follow in the Rev. Gannaway’s
footsteps.’’

Honor scholarship created in memory of Darnall Boyd, ’78

An honor scholarship has been established at
Washington and Lee in memory of Darnall W.
Boyd Jr., ’78, who died in 1985.

The Darnall W. Boyd Jr. Memorial Honor
Scholarship was created through gifts from Boyd’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Boyd of Columbia, S.C.,
and from other family members, friends, and
classmates of Boyd.

The scholarship, which will be awarded for the
first time to a student entering in the fall of 1990,
provides full tuition for four years of study at
Washington and Lee.. The award will be made
regardless of financial need.

22 W&L

*‘Honor scholarships are very special at
Washington and Lee and relatively few in
number,’’ said John W. Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs at W&L. ‘‘It is a privilege for us
to have another honor scholarship and one in Dar-
nall Boyd’s name.’’

Students from Columbia, S.C., who exhibit
high standards of character and leadership will be
given preference for receiving the Boyd scholar-
ship. An advisory committee of Washington and
Lee alumni from the Columbia area will assist in
identifying worthy candidates for the award.

 

 

Faculty
promotions
announced

The Washington and
Lee Board of Trustees
approved promotions
for several members of
the faculty during its
meeting in May on the
campus.

Six faculty members
were promoted to the
rank of professor. They
were Harlan R. Beckley
(religion); Robert J. de
Maria (journalism);
William S. Geimer (law);
John R. Handelman
(politics); John J.
Wielgus (biology); and
Thomas J. Ziegler
(drama).

In addition, two
members of the law
school faculty, Lyman
P.Q. Johnson and Joan
M. Shaughnessy, were
promoted to the rank of
associate professor with
tenure.

 

 

 

 

FOOTBALL
Sept. 9 Emory & Henry Away
Sept. 16 Methodist Home
Sept. 23 Centre (Hall of Fame) Home
Sept. 30 Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 7 Maryville (Homecoming) Home
Oct. 14 Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 21 Sewanee Away
Oct. 28 Bridgewater

(Parents’ Wknd.) Home
Nov. 4 Ursinus Away
Nov. 11 Georgetown Away

MEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 9 Denison Home
Sept. 15 Johns Hopkins Away
Sept. 16 Carnegie-Mellon Away
Sept. 19 Guilford Away
Sept. 24 NC Wesleyan Away
Sept. 27 Shenandoah Home
Sept. 30 Roanoke Home
Oct. 3 Hampden-Sydney Home
Oct. 7 Mary Washington Home
Ost; 58 Lynchburg Away
Oct. 14 Va. Wesleyan Away
Oct. 18 Eastern Mennonite Home
Oct. - 2a Washington College Away
Od. 2 Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 27-28 ODAC Tournament TBA
Oct. 323i VMI Home
WATER POLO

Sept. 8-10 W&L Fall Classic Home
Sept. 16-17 Northeast Varsity

Invitational Away
Sept. 23-24 Va. State Championships Away
Oct. 14-15 Southeastern Varsity

Champ. Away
Oct. 21-22 Southern Tournament Away
Nov. 4-5 Southern Championships Home
Nov. 10-12 Eastern Championships Away

WOMEN’S TENNIS

Sept. 26 Sweet Briar Away
Sept. 29-30 Swarthmore Quad Away
Oct. 4 RMWC Home
Oct. 9 Catholic Home
Oct. 13 Glassboro State Home
Oct. 14 Hollins, Methodist Home
Oct. 28 Mary Washington Home

 

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept. 23 Mary Washington Away
Sept. 30 Norfolk State, Roanoke Away
Oct. 7 Lynchburg,

Mary Baldwin Home
Oct. 14 State Meet Away
Ont... a West Va. Tech, Emory &

Henry, Mary Baldwin Home
Oct. 28 Eastern Mennonite,

Mary Baldwin Home
Nov. 4 ODAC Championships Away

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept. 23 Mary Washington,

Washington Away
Sept. 30 Norfolk State, Roanoke Away
Oct. 7 Catholic, Lynchburg Home
Oct. 14 State Meet Away
Oct. 21 Bridgewater, West Va.

Tech, Emory & Henry Home
Gch, s-. 20 Hampden-Sydney,

Eastern Mennonite Away
Nov. 4 ODAC Championships Away

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Sept. 7 RMWC Away
Sept. 9 Va. Wesleyan Home
Sept. 12 Liberty Away
Sept. 16 Sweet Briar Home
Sept. 18 Hollins Away
Sept. 22 Marymount Away
Sept. 23 Randolph-Macon

(Ashland) Away
Sept. 28 Roanoke Away
Sept. 30 N.C. Wesleyan Home
Oct. 3 Southern Seminary Away
Oct. 7 RMWC Home
Oct. 9 UMBC Home
Oct. 11 Sweet Briar Away
Oct. 14 Guilford Away
¢ ee Lynchburg Home
ce. 9 Hollins Home
Od: ~ 2 Wheeling Away

VOLLEYBALL

Sept. 16 RMWC Tournament Away
Sept. 22-23 Bridgewater Tournament Away
Sept. 26 Averett Away
Sept. 28 Lynchburg, Shenandoah Home
Sept. 30 Mary Washington,

Ferrum Away
Oct. 4 Bridgewater Away
Oct. 5 Mary Baldwin Away
Oct. 6- 7 Washington Col.

Tournament Away
Oct. 10 RMWC Away
6. ae Roanoke, Catholic Home
Oct... 17 Eastern Mennonite Away
Oct. 20 Hollins, Guilford Home
Oct. 24 Sweet Briar Away
Ons Emory & Henry Home
GOet.:' 2a Southern Seminary Home
Nov. 3- 4 ODAC Tournament Away

 

 

The Bookshelf

Death in the Balance:

The Debate Over Capital Punishment
By Donald D. Hook, ’50, and Lothar Kahn
(Lexington Books/D.C. Heath)

The author of six German language and
literature textbooks, Hook turned to the
writing of trade books a decade ago. Death
in the Balance is his fourth, co-authored with
Lothar Kahn.

Unlike most books on the subject of the
death penalty, this one attempts to present
a view of both sides of this crucial current
issue. It has been endorsed by Nobel Prize
winner Elie Wiesel, columnist George F.
Will, Senator Paul Simon, and Bishop John
S. Spong.

 

Hook is professor of modern languages
at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn. He
holds degrees from Emory, Duke, and
Brown Universities and the University of
North Carolina.

Private Lies: Infidelity

and the Betrayal of Intimacy
By Dr. Frank S. Pittman III, ’56
(W.W. Norton)

Half of all married people today have ex-
tramarital affairs. In this 300-page volume,
Pittman, an Atlanta psychiatrist and family
therapist, examines the reasons behind that

phenomenon and the different patterns that
affairs can take.

In 15 chapters, the author tackles such
issues as ‘‘Accidental Infidelity (It Just Hap-
pened),’’ ‘‘Philandering: The Battle of the
Sexes,’” and ‘‘What Will the Children
Think?’’

**If you wonder whether certain behavior
constitutes infidelity,’’ Pittman counsels, ‘‘I
recommend that you ask your spouse.”’

To promote the book, Pittman has
recently appeared on a number of talk
shows, including those hosted by Oprah
Winfrey, Phil Donahue, and Larry King. He
is also the author of Turning Points: Treating
Families in Transition and Crisis.

W&L 23

Alumni New S Pusey Receives Lynchburg Citation

 

\ ~

LYNCHBURG—Lynch Christian, ’44, William W. Pusey, recipient of the Lynchburg Citation, and Lea Booth, ’40, are serenaded by members of
JubiLee, a student singing ensemble, during the chapter banquet.

The Lynchburg chapter awarded its an-
nual citation to William W. Pusey,
Washington and Lee’s dean emeritus, dur-
ing an April banquet at the Boonsboro
Country Club.

Pusey served on the W&L faculty from
1939 to 1981. During those years, he held the
positions of dean, acting president, and pro-
fessor of German.

Providing entertainment at the Lynch-
burg banquet were members of JubiLee, one
of the University’s student singing
ensembles.

Summer travelers

Several members of W&L’s faculty and
administration took advantage of the sum-
mer recess to visit various chapters
throughout the country.

Rick Heatley, associate dean of students
and director of career development and
placement, spoke to San Antonio alumni

PY)
is 7 ra
is 4

 

ae]
i Ne. is | . about the Alumni Career Assistance Pro-
mn: ae ae iia, gram (ACAP).
SD oe eC N Se - In San Diego, Lewis G. John, ’58, dean
rs ae ‘i ¥)) m @ t i ; | of students and professor of politics, and
ow : Annette C. John, the University’s acquisi-
(Above) LYNCHBURG—Assembling at the Boonsboro Country Club are Jack Shewel, ’80, tions librarian, were special guests at a recep-

chapter treasurer; William W. Pusey, Lynchburg Citation recipient; Bobby Taylor, ’44, former : 5
chapter president; Ted Craddock, ’68, chapter president; and Robin Wood, ’62. (Below) SAN non at the Horton Grand Hotel. Also attend
ANTONIO—lIn attendance at a late May meeting are Chip Flanagan, ’75, Sally Flanagan, Carl ing the meeting (and providing musical enter-
Harnisch, ’77, Camilla Parker, Don Noble, ’79, and Polly Noble. tainment) was pianist Robert A. Vienneau,

24 W&L

W&L University Bookstore
Lexington, VA 24450

~ Images of Washington and Lee

GIFTS FROM THE WASHINGTON AND LEE BOOKSTORE

—

 

 

 

Al Summer Afternoon at W&L, col-
or lithographic print by David Keeling. Al
Double-matted and framed, 35” by 29”
overall (print size 26” x 20”). Shipped —_—_—_
from the artist's studio. $183.00. —_—_ a Ree a
Spring color lithograph also available. — ce TaN le

"

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

Double-matted and framed, 38” x 27”
(print size 28” x 18”). $183.00.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

A2 Rummel print of the campus —
sketched from a balloon in the early
part of the century. Hand pulled from
original copper plate, then hand col-
ored. Museum mounted, double-
matted and framed. 36%” long by
26%” high. Shipped from the
distributor. $245.00.

 

 

 

+ ‘ *.
> eee sont

 

Aé Our own pitcher

A3 from England. On the
Etched double old-fashioned bottom is written “Made
glass. 14 oz. Set of six $22.00. exclusively for Washington and Lee

University” by STAFFORDSHIRE.
Portrait of Lee on one side,

A4 Etched highball glass. 12 oz. Set Washington on the other. $25.95.
of six $21.00.

A5 Etched wine glass. 10 oz. $4.75.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B1 Child's shirt from VELVA SHEEN.
Raspberry, robin’s egg blue or navy with
white imprint. 50/50 cotton/poly. S (6-8),
M (10-12), L (14-16). $6.95. White with
navy imprint. XS (2-4), S, M, L. $6.95.

 

 

B2 Baby shirt from Contemporary
Designs for future students! Pink, blue or
white with royal blue imprint. Sizes
available: 12 months, 24 months. $6.25.

 

B3 Eight ounce Evenflo plastic baby
bottle. $4.25.

Bo New Wordmark sweatshirt from
WOLF. Ash grey with navy trim. Two
pockets! 49/49/2 B
-— cotton/poly/other. 7 COLLEGIATE PACIFIC
Sie, M. L, XL. $23.95. . T-shirt with our Wordmark.
oe , Navy only. 100% cotton.
. (These run large). M, L, XL.

$15.95.

 

 
  
       
 
 
 
 
    
  

ee

     

B7

 

’

y g ew or call
us for information
on a college ring.
We are proud of .
our rings which
come from Art-
Carved and
Josten’s. Choose a
ring in 10K, 14K
or 18K.

 

 

 

 

 

 

a ee ad
a "a rs

B4 Sweatpants from CHAMPION in
that heavy reverse weave. S, M, L, XL.
$25.95.

B5 Sweatshorts from CHAMPION in
that heavy reverse weave. M, L, XL.
$19.95.

 

B8 Ladies’ pen and case in your choice

of pearl pink or pearl blue. W&L crest in
full color on the top. Lifetime guarantee.

$28.95.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C8 Blazer Buttons from

WATERBURY. 24K gold-
plated. Three coat
buttons
and six
sleeve /(@
buttons. =
$40.00.

  
  

"m

3 2 C3

~.

    
 

 

<<

C1 1, W&L's new abbreviated Word- r 4 eee
mark on a tie! Navy only. All silk face.

 

Available as conventional tie (C1), men’s C4
bow tie (C2), or ladies soft bow tie (C3). Red and royal blue on a combed
Please specify. $22.95. cotton T-shirt from CAROLINA CON-

NECTION. White only. 100% combed
cotton. M, L, XL. $9.95. XXL $10.95.

C5 Twill hat by RTC. Your choice of
white, navy or royal with contrasting em-
broidery. Adjustable strap. $8.95.

C6 Corduroy hat from RTC. Your choice

of white, navy or royal with contrasting
embroidery. Adjustable strap. $8.95.

 

per meter T-shirt with pocket
from COLLEGIATE PACIFIC. Royal with
white puff print. 100% cotton. M, L, XL.
$13.95.

 

Cp Blazer crest in full color with silver
and gold bullion trim. Brass fasteners so
crest is removeable. $29.95.

  
   

 

 

C9 Our heaviest sweatshirt — the reverse
weave by CHAMPION. Grey or navy.
89/8/3 cotton/acrylic/rayon. (These are
huge!). S, M, L, XL. $36.95. XXL $38.95.

 

C13 Our own clock by Bill Cooper ‘76,
in solid hand-rubbed cherry with
American-made quartz movement (AA
battery provided). 10%,” wide, 20%”
high, 3%” deep, to hang or place
on mantel or table. Shipped to
you from manufacturer.
Moneyback guarantee, of course.
$149.95.

 

C10 GEAR shorts with two side pockets
and a back pocket. White with navy imprint.
65/35 poly/cotton. S, M, L, XL. $18.95.

C1] The reverse weave with a hood from
CHAMPION. Grey or navy. 89/8/3 acrylic/
Cotton/rayon. (These are huge!). S, M, L, a . cilia a ae
XL, XXL. Special Price — only $38.95. eee pr As
XXL $41.95. Special price only until : . BNO)
b. 1, 1990.

 

ee

 

 

 

 

 

D1 Three-in-one stadium cushion! It's a
nylon cushion that can become a tote —
there's a vinyl rain poncho in the pocket.
14” by 14”. Navy only. $25.95.

 

 

D7. ounce pewter mug from
UNIVERSAL PEWTER. Glass bottom.
Highly polished finish. Individually
boxed. Lead free, of course. $24.95.

D8 Pewter bud vase from UNIVER-
SAL PEWTER. 95% tin, 7” tall.
Individually boxed. $13.95.

D9. special baby cup from
UNIVERSAL PEWTER. High quality
pewter (95% tin) that will not tarnish.
Engravable, too. $14.50.

D10 Napkin ring from UNIVERSAL
PEWTER. High quality, never needs
polishing. Individually boxed. $6.50.

D11 Pewter goblet from UNIVER-
SAL PEWTER. 95% tin, lead free.
Never needs polishing. Individually
boxed. $18.50.

 

 

 

 

D2 Valley Views: Lexington and
Rockbridge County, Virginia 1924-1940
by Dr. William D. Hoyt '32, M.A. ‘33. His
photographic record of the area sur-
rounding W&L as it was pre World War
II, pre I-81. $20.00. Comb-binding only.

D3 Wilhelm II: Prince and Emperor
1859-1900, Vol 1 by Dr. Lamar Cecil,
William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of History
at W&L. Biography of one of modern
history's most powerful — and most
misunderstood rulers. $39.95. Hardcover.

D4 West of Eden: The End of Innocence
at Apple Computer by Frank Rose ‘71.
Corporate success brings upheaval and
mangled dreams in the high-tech, high-
velocity world of the 1980's. $19.95.
Hardcover.

 

 

 

   

 

D12 Red and blue crest highball
glass. 12 oz. Set of six. $24.00.

D13 Red and blue crest double old-
fashioned glass. 14 oz. Set of six. $25.00.

 

D5 By Land, By Sea by William
Hoffman, ‘53. Master storyteller’s
second collecton of short fiction —
“exquisitely wrought tales set mostly
in Virginia.” $16.95. Hardcover.

D6 The Ice at the Bottom of the World:
Stories by Mark Richard, ‘80. Ten stories
that “reach for the heart with one hand
and go for the funny bone with the
other.” $16.95. Hardcover.

Books of Continuing Interest:

General Lee's College by Ollinger Crenshaw.
$10.00 Cloth.

Lee: The Last Years by Charles Bracelen
Flood. $15.95 Cloth. $9.95 Paper
Washington and Lee Pictorial Essay by
William Strode. $35.00 Cloth only. Includes
shipping. (No limited edition available —
sold out).

The Lee Girls by Mary P. Coulling. $19.95
Cloth.

The Way We lived: Durham, 1900-1920 by
James G. Leyburn, longtime dean of
Washington and Lee. $19.95 Cloth.

 

D14 our own Christmas card! Red
trim. 6’x4%". Inside: All Good Wishes
for a Joyous Holiday Season. Box of
ten with envelopes. $6.50.

 

W&L University Bookstore Name:

 

Lexington, VA 24450 Address

 

(703) 463-8633
Mon-Fri. 8:00 a.m: 4:00 p.m. City

Item Size

your order as prices can
change without warning.

UPS and sales tax where
applicable. If you'd rather
order by phone or you have
a question, please call us.

 

Photos by Hinely. Design by The Design Group, Lynchburg, VA.

Signature

Day Phone (Please!):

 

Please send no money with For orders over $5.00:

VISA____ MASTERCARD
We will bill you, adding Charge Card Number:

PLT TO ELT ETT ee

State Zip

 

Exp. Date

 

 

9/89

 

 

 

 

 

°87, °90L, who was living in the area during
the summer months.

Meanwhile, Bruce H. Herrick, chairman
of W&L’s economics department, was the
guest speaker at the annual luncheon of the
Atlanta chapter on Bastille Day.

Other chapter events

Numerous chapters took advantage of
warm weather to socialize with graduates of
other Virginia schools.

Members of the Palmetto chapter attend-
ed the fifth annual Commonwealth Day
Celebration in Columbia, while Washington,
D.C., alumni enjoyed a ‘‘Party in the Park’’
sponsored by the Washington Alumni
Chapters of Southern Colleges.

In Birmingham, the Generals took on
area Sewanee Tigers in a game of softball,
while the Richmond chapter sponsored a
cookout with Hollins alumnae. And though
they were far from Churchill Downs,
Chicago area alumni joined forces with their
Sweet Briar counterparts for a Kentucky
Derby party.

Members of the Westchester/Fairfield
chapter saw plenty of each other during the
spring and summer months. The chapter
sponsored a ‘‘happy hour’’ gathering in
April, a cocktail party in June, and a Sun-
day buffet brunch in July.

Bill Clements, ’50, and Jane Clements
opened their home to members of the
Baltimore chapter for a spring cocktail par-
ty in May. The Winston-Salem chapter held
its annual meeting in June, and the New
Orleans chapter assembled for an annual
summer barbecue at the city park later that
month.

In late July, the Forth Worth and South
Carolina Piedmont chapters sponsored
receptions for incoming Washington and Lee
freshmen and first-year law students from
those areas.

New chapter presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:
Cumberland Valley—D. Bruce Poole,
81, ’85L;

Florida West Coast—Michael Airheart,
78;

Lynchburg—Theodore J. Craddock, ’68;
Middle Tennessee—George B. Stadler,
81;

Orange County—V. Herrick Hanson,
56;

Pittsburgh—Joel Johnston, ’86L;

San Antonio—Donald P. Noble, ’79;
Tidewater—James H. Flippen III, ’79;
Westchester/Fairfield—Janna Johnson,
*86L, and Mark Herman, ’87.

 

 

New Alumni
Board Members

 

Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75

Attorney, Bowles, Rice, McDavid & Goff
Charleston, W.Va.

  

William M. Bowen, ’61

Partner, Bowen, Smoot & Laughlin
Hilton Head, S.C.

Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L

Partner, McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe
Alexandria, Va.

 

Michael G. Morgan, ’68

President/Chairman,
Charter Federal Savings & Loan
Stamford, Ct.

Michael T. Thornton, ’70, ’78L

Attorney, Dennis & Corry
Atlanta, Ga.

 

 

W&L

25

Getting A Foot in the Door

College students at Washington and Lee, like those elsewhere, often refer
to the ‘‘real world’’ as if it were a foreign place filled with strangers, speaking
a different language. Trying to find a job or an internship in this environment
can be a frustrating and intimidating experience, to say the least. Most cover
letters and resumes receive only form letters in response; telephone calls become
messages and 30-second entries on a long-distance phone bill.

As a recent graduate of W&L, I know what I’m talking about. Overcom-
ing these obstacles and ‘‘getting your foot in the door’’ at a company often
depend on whom you know. That is why I, and so many of my fellow students,
are grateful to W&L’s Alumni Career Assistance Program (ACAP).

The backbone of ACAP is the extensive network of 86 W&L alumni chapters
scattered throughout the nation. ‘‘W&L is a network school, anyway,’’ says
Courtney Payne, a rising junior who landed not one, but two summer intern-
ships through the help of ACAP. ‘‘Once you meet someone who also went
there, there’s an instant connection; you know you have something in com-
mon. You just don’t find that at other schools.”’

The career program began in 1986 in three pilot cities: Washington, D.C.,
Atlanta, and Roanoke, Va. Today, more than 375 alumni from all across the
country have volunteered to help, and their numbers continue to grow.

**1 don’t think other schools have anything this extensive,’’ says Mike Missal,
78, an attorney with the Washington, D.C., firm of Kirkpatrick and Lockhart
and coordinator of the 100 ACAP volunteers in that city. ‘‘It’s appropriate
that such a unique school has such a unique alumni program.

‘*It’s a way to get in the door in a difficult job market: Alumni will almost
always speak to someone from W&L. And the students I’ve dealt with have
been very well prepared. They’ve got first-rate resumes, know their interests,
and have thought through what they want to do.’’

It is the common bond between current students and W&L alumni that
makes ACAP work. ‘‘A W&L alumnus understands my resume better than
someone who doesn’t know what the Mock Convention and the Executive Com-
mittee are,’’ says Rowan Taylor, ’89. ‘‘They know the activities, clubs, and
sports I’ve done; we have common experiences.’”’

Thanks in part to ACAP, Taylor now works as a financial analyst for First
Boston in New York City. ‘‘Trying to find a job is like fighting an uphill bat-
tle,’’ he recalls. ‘‘The W&L people I talked to were usually willing to help me
out in some way. When I called them I wasn’t saying, ‘I went to your school,
so give me a job.’ I just wanted a few minutes of their time for some advice,
suggestions, and a way in the door. The whole thing is like a game of luck,
and I just wanted them to help me get into the game. Once in, I know I have
to sell myself and stand on my own feet.”’

The summer before his senior year at W&L, Taylor worked for Mutual of
New York. He interviewed for the job after meeting Gray Castle, ’54, an ex-
ecutive vice president at MONY.

‘*Someone who has been out of W&L for 20 years or so can offer me a
very important commodity: knowledge,’’ Taylor explains. ‘‘Advice and insights
alumni can give me let me make educated decisions. Younger alumni who have
graduated in the past five years or so may not be in the highest levels of manage-
ment, but they remember what it’s like to want to work in New York. They
were frank and very honestly answered my questions and offered me some how-
tos.”’

One recent graduate who helped Taylor find his present job was First Boston
employee Stuart Miller, ’*82. Miller himself had found it difficult to look for
a job in New York, because most of the financial analyst programs seemed
to be dominated by students from Ivy League schools.

‘*I had a bad experience breaking into the programs,”’ he recalls. ‘‘A lot
of my willingness to help organized recruiting at W&L grew out of my own
frustration. Now there are a number of my classmates up here, and on an in-
formal basis, we make each other aware of students who are interested in work-
ing up here.’’

26 W&L

by Eleanor Nelson, ’89

 

Eleanor Nelson, a June graduate of Washington and Lee,

is the daughter of Lewis P. Nelson, ’61, of Richmond. She
now lives in New York City, where she is pursuing a ance

in journalism.

aa
|S

   

During Homecoming
weekend, Oct. 6-7, Wash-
ington and Lee will sponsor
a workshop on the Alumni
Career Assistance Program.
More information may be
obtained by contacting N.
Rick Heatley, associate dean
of students and director of
career services, at the address
listed to the right or at (703)
463-8595.

 

Cie,
ke
.¢s

<i> -_
4 oe ay!

-

ACAP Program Assists Students

 

Neal DeBonte, 88 (right), now works at Dominion Bank
in Roanoke, thanks to the assistance of Scott Farrar, ’76

(left), an assistant vice president at the bank.

On a personal note, I must add that I, for one, was glad that so many helpful
Washington and Lee alumni live in the New York area. Several months before
my graduation, I was able to meet with John Kingston, ’79, and Michael Lavitt,
°80, both of whom work at McGraw-Hill. Topics during our lunch conversa-
tion varied from how to get a start in newspaper and magazine journalism to
current issues back in Lexington. As much as I wanted their advice about entry-
level jobs, they were eager to hear about professors in the journalism depart-
ment and to learn how coeducation was working.

It was more than a fair trade-off for me. At the end of lunch, I had filled
a few pages in my legal pad with scrawled names of publishers and editors they
suggested I call. I came away with more ideas for pursuing my job search—
and I had messages and greetings to take back to their favorite professors at
W&L.

While I was looking for help in moving to New York City, Neal DeBonte,
°88, needed ACAP’s assistance to /eave the Big Apple. ‘‘I’d worked on Wall
Street for a few months and decided I wanted to move back to Virginia,’’
DeBonte explains. The ACAP program put him in touch with Scott Farrar,
°76, an assistant vice president in commercial real estate at Dominion Bank
in Roanoke.

‘It was about four weeks from my first phone call to my first day on the
job at Dominion Bank in the municipal bond department,’’ DeBonte recalls.
‘**I found opportunities that simply wouldn’t have existed without the backing
of the alumni. They were genuinely interested.’’

The Alumni Career Assistance Program is a multi-faceted project, and op-
portunities for alumni involvement are varied. Many W&L graduates simply
offer to talk to job-seekers or to review resumes. Others have actually traveled
to Lexington to give lectures or participate in panel discussions for current
students, or even to recruit for their businesses. Still others open their homes
to students who are visiting strange cities to look for work.

The most important thing, ACAP participants agree, is a willingness to help
out in a crucial area of student concern: career planning. ‘‘Last year, I decided
I needed a summer job—a good one,’’ says Payne, the rising junior from Atlan-
ta. After contacting David Tyler, ’82, she wound up working in First Atlanta
Bank’s customer services division.

But she also spoke to Chet Burgess, ’74, a supervising news producer at
Cable News Network. When the Republican National Convention began, she
found herself working in a CNN anchor booth in New Orleans.

“It really was a once-in-a-lifetime deal, and worth working hard and
volunteering without pay the first time.’’ Payne returned to Atlanta during the
spring term of last year for another internship at the news network.

‘**Lots of the other interns had parents at CNN who got them the job, and
people kept asking me, ‘Who’s your daddy?’ ’’ she remembers with a laugh.

**All the alumni I contacted when I was looking for work were very nice
and did what they could to help me,’’ she says. ‘‘But then again, you’d expect
that, coming from W&L.’’

 

Alumni as Career Assistants

ing you want to rent to a W&L graduate?

and a registration form.

 

i

Would you enjoy providing career advice in your field to an interested
Washington and Lee student? What about sponsoring a summer internship in Class
your company? How about coordinating career assistance efforts in your
chapter? Does your company recruit on the W&L campus? Would you or your Street Address
supervisor like to review the resumes of some W&L seniors for a position with
your company? Or would you like to know about other alumni seeking employ-
ment in your field? Would you be interested in welcoming W&L graduates to
your city? Or how about sharing your expertise as a career lecturer? Any lodg-

If any of these activities interest you, then you need to be involved in ACAP Associate Dean of Students and Director of
(Alumni Career Assistance Program). Currently some 375 Washington and Lee Career Services
alumni are helping W&L students learn more about careers and employment. University Center
If you would like to find out about ACAP and consider becoming a volunteer, Washington and Lee University
clip and return the form at the right to receive information about the program Lexington, VA 24450

Name

 

 

 

 

Return to: N. Rick Heatley

 

 

 

W&L 27

TTT
aT Ty TT lela slUtit +

Sa fm P
Geo.

i

— — — S »
: .
pe nn etl ee ee
7 Py \y oot ae .
rs -

a) Tae

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Emily C. Bevill, Rardon D. Bevilll III, ’60; Edgar S. Sydnor
Jr., E. Starke Sydnor, ’66, ’73L; W. Fray McCormick, Charles L. McCormick III, ’58, ’60L; Edward G.S. Spencer, Charles R. Spencer, ’58;
Robert Wolf, Richard Wolf, ’60; Laura S. Carty, James W. Carty Jr., ’62; Gretchen Bell, Edward Bell Jr., ’°60; Craig D. Love, Ernest T. Love
SF

Law degree recipients standing behind their alumni
fathers (from left to right): Julia L. Hotchkiss, Farris P.
Hotchkiss, ’58; Jonathan Wall, Thomas R. Wall Ill, °54;
Andrew P. Wright, Thomas M. Wright, °47.

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left
to right): Banks C. Ladd, G. Russell Ladd III, ’57; M. Warren Butler,
Charles R. Butler Jr., ’62; David K. Surface, J. Frank Surface, ’60, ’63L;
Charles T. Gay, Charles E. Gay IV, ’62; Thomas K. Herndon, Milton T.
Herndon, ’S6L.

 

aM, > sa pos pre

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Eleanor C. Nelson, Lewis P. Nelson III, ’61; Peter C. Sackett,
William R. Malloy, °44 (grandfather); Michael R. Magoline, Alfred J. Magoline Jr., ’57; J.A. Jones Tyler III, James A.J. Tyler Jr., 67; David D.
Lawrence, Richard L. Lawrence, ’64L; S. Taylor Williams, Thomas C. Williams, ’60; G. Bradley Gottsegen, Marshall I. Gottsegen, ’61; Gregory
P. Hartmann, Robin P. Hartmann, ’71L; Frank F. Kannapell, Charles C. Kannapell, ’57; Sheldon Clark III, Sheldon Clark II, ’58; Thomas R.
Moore, Richard A. Moore, ’57; Kimberly M. Eadie, Edward B. Eadie Jr., ’63.

in 4 is F F Lh daghea none

angie sfchahakoe
b - -— :
) ee or = = = os re ee ee S -
. soe

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Valerie A. Pierson, George H. Pierson Jr., ’50; Elizabeth A.
Cummins, Richard F. Cummins, ’59; Julia J. Snowdon, Robert R. Radcliff, ’37 (grandfather); Amy H. Pickett, E.F. Jacob; Catherine M. Board-
man, John K. Boardman Jr., ’51; Cheryl H. Barrett, Michael J. Barrett Jr., ’49, ’51L; Laura A. Hoopes, Frank M. Hoopes Jr., ’58; Elizabeth S.
Miles, A. Stevens Miles, ’51; Amy C. Balfour, Daniel T. Balfour, ’63, ’65L; Anne W. Large, Robert H. Large, ’57; Christopher Wood, James A.
Wood, ’59; Catherine W. Councill, Philip A. Councill, ’54.

Bachelor’s degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (from left to right): Elizabeth J. Parkins, John A. Parkins, ’39 (grandfather),
John A, Parkins Jr., ’72L; Delia D. Ford, William F. Ford, ’61L; Todd M. Ratcliff, Bruce A. Ratcliff, ’62; A. Catherine Christian, R. Meade
Christian Jr., ’63; Caroline E. Boone, E. Ross Kyger Ill, 63; Scott B. Gorry, James A. Gorry III, ’64L; H. Hunter White, Hugh V. White Jr.,
‘61L; Elisabeth E. Fowler, John M. Fowler, 63; Frederic P. Skinner Jr., Frederic P. Skinner, ’67; Joseph F. Rowe III, Joseph F. Rowe Jr., ’55,
S8L; Robert H. Manson III, R. Hunter Manson, 63, ’69L.

Wa&L 29

 

The Covenant Fellowship of

Presbyterians awarded its annual
Bell-MacKay Prize in June to ‘‘an apostle to Iran,”’
WILLIAM MCELWEE MILLER, a Presbyterian
minister who served in Iran from 1919 to 1962.
Miller, who lives in Philadelphia, continues to
speak and write about mission concerns.

Alumni of the Virginia Com-

monwealth University School of Den-
tistry have honored DR. HARRY LYONS of
Richmond by establishing the Harry Lyons
Distinguished Professorship. Lyons is dean
emeritus of the School of Dentistry.

EDWIN W. CHITTUM, former

superintendent of the Norfolk, Va.,
County Schools, received an honorary doctorate
from Old Dominion University at commmence-
ment exercises in May. The citation read during
the ceremony recognized. Chittum for having
‘‘shepherded the school system through the dif-
ficult years of extremely rapid growth and the tran-
sition of Norfolk County into the City of
Chesapeake.’’ During his career, he served as
chairman of the board of Eastern Virginia Medical

30. =~W&L

School and as president of the American Associa-
tion of Public Schools. Chittum lives in
Chesapeake.

DR. A. BUBBIE ORTNER of Louisville, Ky., is
vice president of Healthcare Review Corp. and
serves as a surgical consultant on a part-time basis.
He is retired from the practice of general and
vascular surgery.

Having retired from a career in

developing food machinery,
WILLIAM M. ALLEN stays busy inventing paper
products which are manufactured by a local box
company. Park Seed Co. nationally markets his
latest invention, The Lighthouse, which is designed
to start seedlings. Allen lives in Louisville, Ky.

The oldest graduate of the Westchester Institute
for Training in Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy,
WALTER T. LAWTON JR. became a fully cer-
tified psychoanalyst in June. He practices in
Rutherford, N.J. Lawton is dean of the council
of leaders of the American Ethical Union.

RICHARD E. SIMON of Highland,

Ill., is active in S.C.O.R.E., the
volunteer arm of the Small Business Administra-
tion. He counsels small business managers and
others who are planning to open their own
businesses. Simon is retired from the investment
business, having served Mesirow Financial Services
for 23 years.

In May SETH N. BAKER became
governor of the Society of Mayflower
Descendants in the State of New Jersey, an
organization of more than 600 descendants. The

retired vice president for employee relations of
Celanese Fibers International Co., Baker and his
wife, Gerie, live in Chatham.

As a member of the board and publications chair-
man with the Mathews County Historical Socie-
ty, CMDR. WILLIAM H. BYRN of Cobbs
Creek, Va., is assisting the reprinting of History
and Progress, Mathews County. Byrn is retired
from the U.S. Naval Reserve and from Newport
News Shipbuilding.

A. WARD ARCHER, president of

Memphis Magazine and founder of
the Memphis Business Journal, the Memphis
Health Care News, and the weekly Memphis Flyer,
is the Junior Achievement of Greater Memphis’
Master of Free Enterprise for 1989. The award an-
nually recognizes a citizen who has served as a role
model for the business community.

STANLEY A. HOOKER JR. remarried in
September 1988 and lives with his wife, Jo, ina
townhouse in Cincinnati.

ALEXANDER M. LOEB, retired business ex-
ecutive, educator, and journalist, won the Best of
Show award in April for a painting he entered in
the Art in the Park exhibit in Highland Park, Meri-
dian, Miss. Besides painting, Loeb is active as an
officer and/or director of a number of art and
charitable organizations.

HAMILTON G. DISBROW JR., a

retired civilian employee of the Naval
Air Propulsion Center in West Trenton, N.J., is
serving a second year as president of the Newtown,
Pa., chapter of To Live Again. T.L.A. is an
organization for widows and widowers and has 26
chapters in Pennsylvania and two chapters in New
Jersey. Disbrow is also a volunteer at his local
library.

F. D. (SHELLY) SHELLABARGER, a retired ar-
chitect from Norman, Okla., led a study group in
August to Santa Fe, N.M. The tour was sponsored
by the continuing education college of the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma, where Shellabarger teaches a
course on the history of architecture.

Retired attorney W. RUSSELL
KISER is commissioner of accounts
for Wise County, Va.

eo a ae

» LP ey x poe =
ts el ee Be ES oe TD ee hie

a, ga td

 

ce

Cor

gle

4

ers)

che

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms All black lacquer
$190.00 - Not including $170.00 - Not including
Freight charges Freight charges
(Freight charges available upon request.)

The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available in natural dark pine stain,
with crest in five colors, at the same price as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

Putting
Your Assets
To Work

Do you hold low dividend-paying stock?
Would you like to receive increased income
from your asset and also take a substantial
tax deduction? Would you like to avoid the
capital gains tax and put the full value of
your investment to work for you and for
W&L?

If you responded affirmatively to these
questions, then you might want to consider
creation of a charitable remainder trust. In
such agreements, you convey an asset to a
professional investment manager (W&L can
serve in this capacity) who manages the trust
to provide an income to you and/or another
beneficiary, usually at an annual rate of 6
to 8 percent for the rest of your life. Upon
the death of the last surviving beneficiary,
the assets will pass to the University to be
used to create a scholarship or to meet
another pressing need that you can choose.

In addition, since you have designated
Washington and Lee University to receive
the charitable remainder upon your death,
you may take an immediate tax deduction
for the present value of that gift. If you and
your wife are both 70 and select an eight
percent payout, your tax deduction would
equal about one-third of the market value
of the assets conveyed to trust. This is a tax
deduction you take immediately with any
excess carried over for up to five years. In
terms of the way your income is paid, you
can either select a fixed percentage payout

based on the annual value of the amount
held in trust or a fixed dollar amount deter-
mined at the outset.

Summary:
With a charitable remainder trust, you can:

e /n many cases, double your an-
nual income from an asset;

e Put the full current market value
of the asset to work without incur-
ring a capital gains tax;

e Take a substantial current tax
deduction for your gift to
Washington and Lee; and

e Create an endowment for a very
meaningful purpose that will serve
the University well.

lf you would like to learn more about
this method of using your assets to your own
best advantage while also helping W&L,
please call the University Development Of-
fice at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

 

32 =~WaL

Although officially ‘‘retired,’? C. VICTOR
MOORE JR. is a consultant and teacher for
Chevron. He spent part of last year in Norway as
manager of Norwegian Gulf Oil Co. He and his
wife, Ann, live in Moraga, Calif.

RICHARD H. TURRELL of Short Hills, N.J.,
has been elected chairman of the board of trustees
of Monmouth College in New Jersey.

C. WILLIAM PACY II, director of

development at the McDonogh
School, is serving as executive director of the
Building Congress and Exchange of Greater
Baltimore, which represents 735 professional
members of the building industry. Pacy also
coaches lacrosse at McDonogh.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE of Cherry Hill, N.J., isa
tutor with the Literacy Volunteers of America. The
organization seeks to educate functionally illiterate
adults.

Having retired after 36 years with

Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Co., OLIVER T. CARTER is now consulting
through his business, Carter Associates, in
McLean, Va.

ROBERT T. PITTMAN is vice president of Times
Publishing Co., which publishes the St. Petersburg
Times, Congressional Quarterly, Editorial
Research Reports, Governing magazine, and
business magazines in Florida, Georgia, and
Arizona. Pittman lives in St. Petersburg.

ROBERT H. SALISBURY JR. has been award-
ed a Guggenheim Fellowship to complete his book
American Pluralism in Theory and Practice.
Salisbury is chairman of the department of
political science and Souers professor of American
government at Washington University in St. Louis.
He will spend part of the fellowship period in Italy
as codirector of an international conference on
pluralism and democracy.

Author THOMAS K. WOLFE JR. became a
member of the board of trustees of The New York
Public Library this year. Wolfe has been active in
the library’s affairs as cochairman of the Council
of the Conservators.

JOHN A. FARR JR. (See *49).

WILLIAM H. LYON is vice president of sales
with Vogue Rattan, a furniture company in
Randleman, N.C. In 1987 he sold Lyon-Shaw Inc.,
a company he cofounded. He and his wife, Magie,
have a second home near Morehead City, N.C.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE (See ’50).

The Florida Bar Committee on the

Legal Needs of Children has
established an annual award recognizing the con-
tributions of JUDGE HUGH S. GLICKSTEIN to
the needs of abused children. The committee
presented The Honorable Hugh S. Glickstein Child
Advocate of the Year Award for the first time in
June. Glickstein is a judge on Florida’s 4th District
Court of Appeal. His office is in West Palm Beach.

During a military history journey in
the mountains of northern Italy,
HERWIG R. (JOHNNY) BRANDSTETTER
discovered a crumbling chapel on the edge of a

 

war cemetery. After an investigation, Brandstet-

ter learned that during World War I the Austro-

Hungarian Infantry Regiment No. 27, named :
‘‘King of the Belgians,”’ fought the Italians inthose  _
mountains for 18 months and built the chapelin
1916. Brandstetter, head of the presidial depart- _
ment of the Styrian chamber of commercein Graz,
Austria, was part of acommittee which rebuiltthe
chapel in 1988. ch

WILLIAM J. FRIEDMAN’s business investments
and interests with Harrill Inc. have kept himin
Africa since March. He will return to Palm Beach,
Fla., from Maputo, Mozambique, in October. ta

SEDGWICK L. MOSS was a participant inthe __
Virginia State Democratic Convention in Rich-
mond in June. He was supporting Don Beyer for __
lieutenant governor. Moss is a travel consultant

with VIP Travel Agency in Falls Church, Va. Ca

oe
RICHARD P. ROSS is vice president of North "
Shore Bank in Milwaukee, where he also teaches ‘
marketing management at Marquette University. __
He and his wife, Kay, live in Shorewood. a.

JACOB A. (JACK) SITES is a distribution and
traffic manager for the European region of
Goodyear in Brussels, Belgium. He is responsible
for operations in Turkey and 16 other countries
in western Europe and northern Africa.

ANTHONY VALEN of Middletown, Ohio, began
a six-year elected term in January as ButlerCoun-
ty’s Common Pleas Court judge.

Retired AT&T executive DONALD E. WEST is _
manager of the Jekyll Island (Ga.) Campground.

Richmond dentist DR. WILLIAM C. WILLIAMS
is the initial president of the Cross-Over Ministry,
an interdenominational Christian group of pro-
fessional and business people whose goal istocon-
nect the talents of suburban Richmond with the
needs of the inner-city poor and homeless. The ae
organization operates a dental and medical clinic __
with both paid and volunteer staff. A 24-hour
medical shelter is also planned.

gs halt

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  

es A a

&

pa .

ie ee ea Md t, ‘
be hide = : eo eS A
‘s .

Re mes ri ‘
ae Pt a .
7 ae <a hat

cy ee

|. THOMAS BAKER (See D. Scott P
Baker, ’81). Bee

JUDGE HUGH S. GLICKSTEIN (See ’53).

DR. HARRY G. KENNEDY JR. of Fairm
W.Va., practices radiology in the north and
tral regions of the state. *

As program associate in the division of corporate
services at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilan-
ti, O. BERTRAND RAMSAY develops and ad-
ministers corporate training programs. He ©
previously taught in the university’s chemistry
department. ;

Radford University Professor of Education JOHN
A. RUTHERFORD led a group of students to
England in May as part of their teacher education
program. The exchange program with the Univer-

sity of Nottingham allowed the Radford students
to work in British schools. €

ROBERT C. DUVAL is compirofiee
of McDonald Insulation Co., 4
builder of cold-storage warehouses. He lives in —
Roswell, Ga., with his wife, Mart. ‘ ¢

pe

JOHN D. GRABAU has sold the Connecticut of-
fices of his company, Manpower Temporary re
vice, to travel with his wife, Sharon, and to pur- —

sue other interests. He is retaining the Harrisbu EA

$3 Ms
«a

—< oo

Pa., offices of his company. Grabau lives in Fair-
field, Conn.

SAMUEL A. SYME JR. lives in Myrtle Beach,
S.C., where he is beach property manager for
Dibrell Bros. Tobacco Co. of Danville, Va. He is
also adjunct professor of history at St. Leo Col-
lege and owner of a catering business, Services
Unlimited.

Allentown, Pa., hospital administrator DR.
HEADLEY S. WHITE JR. was recently inducted
as a fellow of the American College of Physician
Executives. He is also a diplomate of the American
Board of Medical Management. White works at
Lehigh Valley Hospital Center.

In a 1988 election, WILLIAM A. G.

BOYLE returned to the city council
of Hamilton, Bermuda, as alderman. He also was
appointed deputy mayor. He is associated with W.
J. Boyle & Son in Hamilton.

STEPHEN K. HENKEL and his wife, Denny, of
Mercer Island, Wash., spent part of the summer
biking through Italy. The couple has also biked
through France, New Zealand, and Switzerland.
They are in the computer support systems distribu-
tion business.

JOHN D. MARSH is a part-time investment
broker and financial planner with R. W. Corby
& Co. in Leesburg, Va. He also manages the family
farm, a growing equestrian center known as Mont-
calm Farm near Purcellville.

CHARLES B. RICHARDSON was recently pro-
moted to captain on the Boeing 727 with United
Airlines. He lives with his family in Winches-
ter, Va.

DR. BERNARD SCHAAF JR. practices urology
in Los Angeles. He lives in Glendale with his wife,
Madeleine, and daughters, Gisele, 2, and Renee, 1.

G. BURT TYLER, one of two active insurance
agents in Tulsa, Okla., who have both the CLU
and CPCU professional designations, is treasurer
and a director of Local Independent Insurance
Agents. Tyler is president of Gordon Tyler Co.
Inc., a $9.5 million property and casualty in-
surance agency. He also is president and a direc-
tor of the Miss Oklahoma Pageant Scholarship
Foundation. He and his wife, Sybil, have two
daughters, Laurie, 24, and Christie, 22.

As president of his area Rotary Club, WARREN
E. WILCOX JR. of Maitland, Fla., traveled to

 

Seoul, South Korea, for the organization’s inter-
national convention in late May. Following the
meeting, he and his wife, Anna, visited several
other sites in Asia and were staying in Beijing near
Tiananmen Square when Chinese soldiers open-
ed fire on student demonstrators. ‘‘I did not feel
at any time that Anna’s or my life was in danger,”’
Wilcox reports. ‘‘However, this was my first ex-
perience with anarchy, and I found it is most
discomforting.”’

When he returned to the People’s

Republic of China after one year in
the United States, JAMES J. CRAWFORD JR.
became general manager of Sun Orient Explora-
tion Co. He has been engaged in exploratory drill-
ing for oil and gas off the coast of China.

RICHARD D. HAYNES,
senior counsel and founder
of the Dallas law firm of
Haynes & Boone, received
the 1989 Justinian Award for
Community Service. The
Dallas Lawyers’ Wives’ Club
sponsors the award. This
year is the 25th anniversary
of the founding of the
166-attorney firm.

THOMAS F. KING JR. is vice president of real
estate lending of Enterprise National Bank in
Jacksonville, Fla.

RICHARD F. CUMMINS of

Nashville, Tenn., is president of three
companies, including Cumberland Oil Co., a
petroleum marketing company; Cumberland Ter-
minals Inc., a petroleum and chemical storage
complex; and Fenner-Spelman Corp., a real estate
holding company.

JOHN D. MARSH (See ’57).

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN is

employed by Aetna Realty Investors
in Hartford, Conn. He lives in Simsbury with his
wife, Kathy, and two daughters.

MALCOLM LASSMAN is senior partner in the
law firm Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld,
which has offices in Washington, D.C., and
Dallas, San Antonio, Austin, and Houston, Texas.
The firm is opening an office in Brussels, Belgium.
Lassman lives in Washington.

 

It’s Not Too Late

To Get An Early Start.

 

1989-90 Annual Fund.

 

Give to the

 

DAVID D. PITARD is a financial analyst with
the space systems division of General Electric in
Valley Forge, Pa. He and his wife, Chloe, have
two sons, Derrick, ’86, and David.

H. GERALD SHIELDS is headmaster of the high
school at the International School of Brussels in
Belgium. He previously was vice principal at the
International School in Manila, Philippines.

GEORGE Y. BIRDSONG was

elected to the Virginia Wesleyan Col-
lege board of trustees in June. Birdsong, executive
vice president of Birdsong Peanuts, recently com-
pleted a second term as director of the Virginia
Manufacturers Association. He is president of
Louise Obici Memorial Hospital Foundation in
Suffolk, where he lives.

Foreign Service officer RICHARD W. HOOVER
is now head of political affairs at the U.S. Mis-
sion to International Organizations in Vienna,
Austria. He left Morocco in August after serving
three years as a political officer in Rabat.

DR. WILLIAM N. OFFUTT IV, clinic professor
of ophthalmology at the University of Kentucky
College of Medicine in Lexington, is serving as
councillor to the American Academy of
Ophthalmology.

As director of real estate for IBM’s Marketing and
Services Organization, S. C. (TAG) STRITE JR.
manages 150 employees around the country. He
lives in New Paltz, N.Y.

JAMES N. APPLEBAUM has

formed Cobham, Alley Partners, a
firm of affiliated promotional communications
specialists who consult to nonprofit, corporate,
and government organizations. He lives and works
in Silver Spring, Md.

JAMES K. HITCH II of Middleburg, Va., has
joined Investors Realty of Leesburg, where he
specializes in farms and estates.

R. WILLIAM IDE III, founding partner of the
Atlanta office of Kutak, Rock & Campbell, has
rejoined the law firm as a partner. Ide left Kutak
in 1985 and has since served as senior vice presi-
dent, special counsel, and head of municipal
finance for E. F. Hutton & Co. and also served
Prescott, Ball & Turben in a similar capacity.

Lykes Brothers Inc. president THOMPSON L.
RANKIN of Tampa, Fla., is now chairman of the
board and chief executive officer of the corpora-
tion. Rankin succeeded CHARLES P. LYKES,
°39, who died in May.

COL. RUFUS C. YOUNG JR. is an attorney with
Fox & Young in Newport Beach, Calif. He and
his wife, Carole, live in Rancho Santa Fe.

RUGELEY P. DEVAN III of Win-
chester, Ky., has purchased his own
company, Allen Concrete & Supply Inc.

KEN C. KOWALSKI is executive vice president
of Colonial Brokerage House Inc. in Lynchburg,
Va. The firm is the general agent for First Col-
ony Life and other companies in the mid-Atlantic
states. Kowalski and his wife, Gail, have two
children, Scott and Kathy.

MALCOLM LASSMAN (See ’60).
W&aL 33

 

 

Wisdom, ’25,
Receives Top
Judiciary Award

Judge John Minor Wisdom, ’25,
of New Orleans, a trustee emeritus of
Washington and Lee, has been nam-
ed a recipient of the 1988 Edward J.
Devitt Distinguished Service to
Justice Award, which is said to be the
most prestigious honor given to a
federal judge.

Wisdom was chosen to receive the
award by a selection committee com-
posed of Devitt, longtime chief
United States district judge for Min-
nesota; U.S. Supreme Court Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor; and U.S. Cir-
cuit Judge Wilfred Feinberg. The
award was presented during a
ceremony May 8 in New Orleans.

A graduate of Tulane Law
School, where he later served on the
faculty, Wisdom was appointed to
the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
in 1957. He took senior judge status
20 years later.

In his 31 years on the bench, he
has participated in the decisions of
more than 4,600 cases and signed
more than 950 published majority
opinions. A number of his opinions
were influential in defining civil rights
law throughout the country.

**Judge Wisdom’s spot in history
is assured by his ability to clearly ex-
press the court’s opinions,’’ read his
award citation. ‘‘A hundred years
from now historians will measure
John Wisdom by his range of judicial
expertise and the quality of his
opinions.

‘*But he has made another con-
tribution, one that is hard for
historians to measure, and so, may
not end up in their history books.
John Minor Wisdom contributed
significantly not only to making the
rule of law work during a period of
social upheaval, but also to the
development of'a generation of
lawyers,’’ the citation said, referring

 

Judge John Minor Wisdom,

"25, a recipient
of the 1988 Edward J. Devitt Distinguished
Service to Justice Award

to Wisdom’s role as mentor and
friend to numerous law clerks
through the years.

Although he now holds ‘‘senior
status’’ with the court, Wisdom still
carries a full caseload and works six
days a week.

Wisdom is the second Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus to win the
coveted Devitt award. U.S. District
Judge Walter E. Hoffman, ’31L, of
Norfolk, Va., received the honor in
1983.

 

 

34

W&L

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

C. D. (KIM) KIMBELL, a partner in
the Santa Barbara, Calif., law firm
of Allen & Kimbell, specializes in real estate. >

S. GWATHMEY TYLER III started his own Cg
property and casualty insurance brokerage agen-
cy in March. The Louisville, Ky., company, Tyler ae |
Associates Inc., specializes in architects’ and  _
engineers’ professional liability, contractors’ in-  __
surance, and surety bonds. Tyler and his win es ?

Nina, live in Anchorage. i

In March JESSE F. WILLIAMS III became chair-
man of Harrison & Bates Inc., a Richmond-based
commercial real estate firm. He had served as
president. a

ROBERT L. WILLIAMS has moved from
Houston to the San Diego area, where he issenior _
vice president of Furnishings 2000 Inc., a home __
furnishings retailer with more than 40 storesin
California. ny 4

PETER H. ALFORD recently moved

to Mayer, Ariz., where he is director
of admissions of Orme School. He previously __
worked in Fairfield, Conn., at Unquowa School. — a

GREGORY E. EUSTON moved from Miami to Bs
Jacksonville, Fla., in July to serve as district —
manager for Sears, Roebuck & Co. His son Greg G fa
’90, will be an editor of the Ring-tum Phithis year. __
Another son, Geoff, participated in W&L’s Sum- a

mer Scholars program in July. x

DR. DOUGLAS N. ROBINS is president of che

Washington, D.C., Dermatological Society. Heis | a
on the voluntary faculty of George Washington —
University Medical School. Robins lives with his
family in Bethesda, Md. 3 |

J. WOOD RUTTER II is director of developmen
at Salisbury School in Salisbury, Conn. He —
previously served the school as director ofa
admissions. —

JAMES M. SLAY JR., partner in the Easton, —
Md., law firm of Henry & Price, is currently coun- 1S {1
ty attorney in Talbot County. He is serving a term —
as president of the Talbot County Bar Association. —

hg

With the support of more than 70

percent of Chester Township, N.J., —
voters in a June 6 election, KENNETH D. CARO ~
defeated an eight-year incumbent in the race for —
mayor. Caro, who was Planning Board chairman, —
said the issue of rezoning was a large factor in his — Me
successful campaign. He is a self-emploaa ie
marketing consultant. ef

=A

ROBERT E. CHAMBERS JR., senior vice presi a
dent with First City, Texas, is regional manager —
for the retail division and for the Houston area |
member banks. He and his wife, Dona, have four
children, Rob, 20, Don, 14, Dina, 13, and Davide 14
7. They live in Houston.

DR. DAVID E. FLEISCHER is now a full pro- a
fessor of medicine at Georgetown University in
Washington, D.C. Rg

JOHN H. RUTHERFORD is White House pro-
ducer for NBC News in Washington, D.C. He and =
his wife, Sally, live in Mclean, Va.

oe

oF
+See
7a

BEN B. CUMMINGS JR. is vice
president for real estate itt
Richmond-based Circuit City Stores Inc., nee
tion’s largest retailer of brand-name consur nel
electronics and appliances. He lives in Midlc hii

< e
Se tell

be.

JOSEPH D. LOGAN, partner in the law firm of
Plunkett & Logan, is serving as 1989-90 president
of the Roanoke Bar Association. The primary
function of the association, which has 450
members, is to recommend judicial candidates.

When the Towson, Md., law firm Cook, Howard,
Downes & Tracey merged to become Venable,
Baetjer & Howard, 20-year veteran JOHN H.
ZINK III was made a partner in what is now the
largest law firm in Maryland. Zink’s practice
focuses on general litigation and family law. He
and his wife, Evelyn, have three daughters, Anne,
Cary, and Laura.

CHRISTOPHER B. CHANDOR
(See Brian G. Howland, ’86L).

Cc. RICHARD DAVIS is practicing law privately
with Freasier & Associates in Richmond. He lives
in Mechanicsville, Va., with his wife, PATRICIA
GODING DAVIS, ’81L, and their son, Christian
Jay, 1.

MAVIS P. KELSEY JR. of Houston is president
of Kelsey Inc., a commercial real estate brokerage
firm.

JOHN M. LEE is assistant professor of English
at James Madison University in Harrisonburg,
Va., where he lives with his wife, Robin A. Haig,
and daughters, Sophie, 12, and Elissa, 10.

LT. COL. JOHN W. RICE JR. retired from the
U.S. Air Force in January and is now employed
by EG&G Idaho Inc. in Idaho Falls, Idaho. He
is the principal program specialist for the
Multimegawatt Space Nuclear Reactor Program.

RICHARD E. RIVERA is president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of T. G. I. Friday’s Inc. in Dallas.
He is a member of the Dallas Citizens Council and
is on the board of governors of the University of
North Texas Hotel/Restaurant Management
School. He and his wife, Leslie, live in Dallas.

J. OAKLEY SEIBERT is a partner in the Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va., firm of Bowles, Rice, McDavid,
Graff & Love. The law firm was formed in
January when Bowles, McDavid, Graff & Love
of Charleston merged with the Martinsburg firm
of Rice, Douglas & Shingleton. Seibert and his
wife, Lynne, have one son, Ross, 1.

ROBERT M. BUXTON is vice presi-
dent of Midland Marine Bank in New
York City, where he lives with his wife, Anne.

WILLIAM J. COOK is chief of the research grants
division of the Pennsylvania Department of Com-
merce. His division allocates grant awards to
businesses and university-corporate partnerships
for economic development. Cook lives in Har-
risburg with his wife, Thalia.

After two years of studying Arabic language at the
Foreign Service School in Tunis, Tunisia,
WILLIAM T. FLEMING JR. is now head of the
economic section at the U.S. embassy in Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

RAY V. HARTWELL III, partner in the Rich-
mond law firm of Hunton & Williams, is vice
chairman of the Criminal Practice and Procedure
Committee of the American Bar Association sec-
tion on antitrust law. He was coeditor of the 1988
edition of the American Bar Association Hand-
book on Antitrust Grand Jury Investigations. He
lives in Richmond with his wife, Katherine.

GARLAND S. TUCKER III, who spent 10 years
in Raleigh, N.C., as president of Carolina
Securities Corp., is now associated with Chemical
Bank in New York City. He lives with his family
in Greenwich, Conn.

In a transfer from Dallas to Chicago

JOHN M. BERNARD became ter-
ritorial controller for the 126-store central territory
of Montgomery Ward.

CHARLES P. COWELL III, chemistry instruc-
tor and department chair at Rancho Santiago Col-
lege in Santa Ana, Calif., recently designed and
built a chemistry lab display for ‘‘The Nutty Pro-
fessor’’ set at Movieland Wax Museum in Buena
Park, Calif. He worked on the project with three
students.

BEN B. CUMMINGS JR. (See ’67).

As a sales representative for Southern Surgical
Supply of Tampa, Fla., RICHARD C.
DAUGHTREY covers Sarasota and Bradenton.
He and his wife, Cindy, have two children, Erin,
8, and Dustin, 5.

JAMES G. L. ENGLISH is chief of operations
for Atlantic Film Studios, a full-service movie pro-
duction soundstage in Suffolk, Va. He lives in New
York City with his wife, Trisha, and daughter,
Jami.

In the April issue of Rhodes College’s periodical
Today, ROBERT L. ENTZMINGER named
Robert E. Lee as one of his most admired historical
figures and cited W&L Professor of English John
M. Evans as one of his greatest influences. Entz-
minger is T. K. Young professor of English and
chair of the department at Rhodes in Memphis,
Tenn. He lives in Germantown with his wife, Mary
Lou, and children, Justin, 9, and Christopher, 5.

A. THOMAS FECHTEL JR. recently moved to
London, where he manages a treasury operation,
Coca-Cola Capital Ltd., for the Coca-Cola Co.

NORWOOD O. MORRISON of Lynchburg, Va.,
is vice president of human resources for N. B.
Handy Co., a building supplies distributor and
sales organization for the mid-Atlantic and
southeastern United States.

As senior vice president of Signet Bank in Tysons
Corner, Va., JOHN D. MUNCKS JR. supervises
commercial activities in Signet’s Metro
Washington Group. He lives in Oakton, Va.

DOUGLAS W. SMITH is chairman of the history
department and dean of faculty at Virginia
Episcopal School in Lynchburg, Va. He and his
wife, Margaret Ann, have two children, Matthew,
10, and Becca, 7.

ROBERT M. GILL, professor of

political science at Radford Univer-
sity in Radford, Va., is vice president of the
American Council for Quebec Studies and vice
president of the Mid-Atlantic Conference for
Canadian Studies. He and his wife, Salle Ann,
have one son, Chuck, 5.

ROBERT J. JANTZEN JR. of Reston, Va., is vice
president of international sales in the food and ser-
vices management division of Marriott Corp.

Charlottesville, Va., attorney FRANCIS M.
LAWRENCE was a lecturer at the University of
Virginia Law School for part of the last academic
year. He spent a semester teaching in the criminal
practice clinic.

EMIL J. SADLOCH provides management con-
sulting services to organizations through his firm,
Sadloch Development Associates of Yardley, Pa.
The firm implements organization development,
management training, and business development
systems. Recent clients include Johnson &
Johnson, Squibb, Midland Bank, and General
Electric.

J. OAKLEY SEIBERT (See ’68).

HOLLIS C. TAGGART is president of Taggart
& Jorgensen Gallery in Washington, D.C., a fine
art gallery specializing in 19th- and early 20th-
century American art.

MICHAEL P. TRUTA is district sales manager
for Volvo GM Heavy Truck in Lenexa, Kan., a
suburb of Kansas City. He and his wife, Barbara,
have three children, Matt, Brian, and Beth.

JAMES F. HEATWOLE, senior vice

president at Dominion Bankshares
Corp. in Roanoke, is responsible for loan policy,
credit review, and loan procedures in Dominion’s
credit administration area. He joined the corpora-
tion in 1972.

WILLIAM J. MODICA is property manager for
the Plaza of Roanoke-Salem Shopping Center in
Roanoke. He and his wife, Patricia Kelly, live in
Salem.

JOHN C. O’NEAL began a year of study in July
after the National Endowment for the Humanities
awarded him a Fellowship for College Teachers
and Independent Scholars. O’ Neal, associate pro-
fessor of French at Hamilton College in Clinton,
N.Y., is studying the intellectual history of sensa-
tionism, sensationist aesthetics, and the politics of
interpretation.

Washington, D.C., attorney JOHN R. SARPY
has assumed duties as special assistant to the
federal secretary of labor. President George Bush
appointed him to the post.

WILLIAM B. FOWLER is employed

by Smith, Barney, Harris, Upham &
Co. in Atlanta. He and his wife, Eleanor, have
two daughters, Maltby Lonsdale, 4, and Eleanor
Maxwell, 1.

CRAIG A. GARDINER of Denver, Colo., is
senior attorney with Cyprus Minerals Co. He and
his wife, Kathryn, have three children, Jill, 10,
Robert, 7, and Molly, 6.

W. PATRICK HINELY, Washington and Lee’s
University photographer, exhibited 50 of his
photographs of jazz musicians at the 10th annual
Jazz City Festival in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada,
in June. The festival’s souvenir program book
Jazzette included a short essay Hinely wrote about
jazz photography, and he was interviewed during
the festival by Canadian Broadcasting Corpora-
tion television and radio.

J. JASON MATTHEWS has just begun his second
of two years as a State Department
political/economic officer in Havana. Working in
the U.S. interests section, he reports on U.S.-
Cuban bilateral relations, the Cuban economy, and
Cuban-USSR relations. Matthews and his wife,
Suzanne, have one daughter, Alexandra, 2.

DR. STEPHEN G. PRIEST practices colon and
rectal surgery in Royal Oak, Mich., which is a
suburb of Detroit. He and his wife, Marty, live
in Birmingham with their three sons, Hunter, 4,
Colin, 3, and Evan, 1.

Wa. 35

 

From Baptisms to BMWs

The Rev. Fred T. Moffatt Jr., ’50, in his new workplace

It’s probably one of the most
unusual career changes of all time.

After preaching the gospel for
nearly 40 years, the Rev. Fred T.
Moffatt Jr., ’50, has left the pulpit
and found a new job—as a car
salesman.

In May, Moffatt delivered his
final sermon at Heritage Baptist
Church in Annapolis, Md., where he
has served as pastor for the past 15
years. He moved to Richmond and
joined the sales force at Crown Maz-
da and Richmond BMW.

The two jobs may not be as dif-
ferent as they initially seem. ‘‘Both
require strong people skills,’’ Moffatt
believes. ‘‘And I like people.

**The morning I announced to my
congregation that I was retiring, one
man told me he had heard of car
salesmen becoming preachers, but he
had never heard of it working the
other way.’’

Moffatt has long had an interest
in automobiles, so, in a sense, it’s the
perfect career move. ‘‘I have been
fascinated with cars since I was about
10,’’ he recalls. ‘‘] was the typical
American boy. I have subscribed to
car magazines all my life and I’ve
owned a Porsche and a Harley-
Davidson sportster. I’ve acted as

foolishly as a preacher’s budget
would allow.”’

After earning his degree from
W&L, Moffatt graduated from the
Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary in Louisville, Ky., and held
pastorates in that state before receiv-
ing a call to the Annapolis church.
Now, after almost four decades in the
pulpit, Moffatt felt ‘‘ready to give up
all the responsibility.’’

Too, he has been dismayed by the
**nolitical theological turmoil’’ which
the Southern Baptist denomination
has been experiencing in recent years.
Moffatt, who describes himself as a
moderate, is particularly distressed by
the ‘‘anti-women views’’ of some
Southern Baptists. ‘‘I’m not unhap-
py to walk away from all that,’’ he
says.

Still, he wouldn’t mind returning
to the pulpit someday in a supply
capacity. ‘‘But I was ready to cut
loose when I did,’’ he adds. ‘‘It was
the right decision.”’

And Moffatt couldn’t be happier
in his new occupation. ‘‘I knew if I
just sat around in retirement, I would
go cuckoo,’’ he says. ‘‘Now I’m so
busy learning new things, I hardly
have time to think straight.’’

 

ep

a4:

DR. M. BARRINGER ELLIS moved from Fort
Campbell, Ky., to Valdosta, Ga., in August to join
an otalaryngology group. He and his wife,

|anghorne, have three daughters, Sayre,
Margaret, and Caroline.
Lexington, Ky., attorney PHILIP L.

HANRAHAN has been promoted to the rank of
major in the Army Individual Ready Reserve. He
also has passed the Kentucky Thoroughbred Horse
Trainer’s Examination, licensing him to train
fhoroughbred racehorses at all Kentucky
racetracks.

This winter, attorney JOHN S. NORRIS JR. won
the longest jury trial in the history of the City of
Virginia Beach. After 14 weeks of testimony, 38
witnesses, and more than 2,000 exhibits, the jury
awarded Norris’ client, the contractor of a high-
rise condominium project, $1.8 million in
damages. Norris is a shareholder and director of
Anderson, Lee & Norris in Virginia Beach. He and
his wife, Amy, have one son, John Stevens III
(Jake).

WALTER E. VEGHTE III is employed with Mer-
rill Lynch & Co. in New York City. He and his
wife, Lisbeth, live in Cranbury, N.J., with their
son, Tyler Owen, 1.

Jacksonville, Fla., dentist DR.

SOLOMON G. BROTMAN was
recently selected as a fellow in the Academy of
General Dentistry. Besides maintaining a private
practice, Brotman teaches at the University of
Florida College of Dentistry.

As an employee of Union Carbide, STEVEN N.
GABELMAN is marketing manager of Orethene
Chemicals. He lives in New Fairfield, Conn., with
his wife, Amy, and children, Barry, 5, and Rebecca
and Elizabeth, both 3.

DR. JON R. GRIGG left active duty in the U.S.
Navy and has moved with his family from Nor-
folk, Va., to Wellsboro, Pa. Grigg, a psychiatrist,
is medical director of both a community mental
health center in Coudersport and a drug and
alcohol treatment facility in Port Allegany. He is
retaining a U.S. Navy Reserve commission. He and
his wife, Susan, have three children, Sarah, 7,
Hunter, 5, and Taylor, 2.

DR. JAMES U. SCOTT is in private pediatric
practice in Coldwater, Mich. He and his wife,
Susan, have two children, Rebecca, 6, and
Jonathan, 3.

TRAVIS E. BASS is sales service

manager of Holly Hill Fiberbond for
Georgia-Pacific in Holly Hill, S.C. He lives in
Summerville with his wife, Laurie, and children,
Ed, 10, and Elizabeth, 7.

ALEXANDER H. BISHOP IV is an account ex-
ecutive with Smith Mead & Associates, a public
relations consulting company in Baltimore.

PARKE L. BRADLEY is a marketing officer with
the investment management division of Irving
Trust in London, where he covers Europe and the
Middle East. He and his wife, Caroline, have two
children, Alexandra, 3, and Thomas, 1.

EDWARD A. BURGESS is an investment port-
folio manager with Trust Company Bank in Atlan-
ta. He previously was employed by Robinson
Humphrey Co. Inc.

CHRISTOPHER L. CAMPS is marketing direc-
tor for automotive, alcohol, and tobacco adver-
tising at Sports Illustrated magazine in Ossining,
N.Y. He previously worked for Newsweek
magazine at the Washington Post Co. He and his
wife, Loren, have one son, Jackson.

Lander, Wyo., attorney BERTHENIA S.
CROCKER is the tribal attorney for the Northern
Arapaho Tribe at Wind River Indian Reservation
in Fort Washakie.

MARK H. DERBYSHIRE is codirector of the
Carilion employee assistance program in Roanoke.
He and his wife, Melinda, have one son, Joshua
David, 4.

GEORGE W. FAISON JR. is employed with
D’Artagnan Inc. in Jersey City, N.J. He and his
wife, Carol, live in Roselle with their daughter,
Lisa Virginia, 1.

As district manager with Merck, Sharp & Dohme
in Charlottesville, Va., ERIK S. GREENBAUM
is responsible for business in central and eastern
Virginia. He and his wife, Elisabeth, have two
children, Virginia, 4, and Scott, 1.

K. LEE HOWARD II is Sunday editor for The
Day newspaper in New London, Conn., which the
New England Newspaper Association named 1989
Newspaper of the Year for medium-size dailies.
Howard recently started his own publishing
business, which markets a political humor jour-
nal called Strip Tease on college campuses.

GERALD L. MAATMAN JR. (See John M.
McGarry, ’83L).

After directing an archeological dig at the Belle
Meade Mansion in Nashville, Tenn., this summer,
HENRY S. MCKELWAY joined the faculty at the
University of Tennessee in Knoxville. He lives in
Mascot.

After 10 years of trust banking experience in
Miami, STEPHEN C. MINANA has returned to
his home state of Pennsylvania to join Com-
monwealth National Bank as senior financial con-
sultant. Minana has offices in York, Lancaster,
and Harrisburg and is responsible for developing
new personal trust and investment management
accounts. He lives in Camp Hill with his wife,
Susan, and two daughters.

= «PETER M. PEARL is an

associate with the Atlanta
law firm Smith, Gambrell &
Russell. He is active with the
‘ financial services and
FZ

a; >
JAMES H. VEGHTE is vice president and treaty
reinsurance manager for Winterthur America
Reinsurance Co. in New York City.

 
 
 

reorganization section of the
firm and is a member of the
committee on professional
fees of the American
Bankruptcy Institute.

 

For supervising the establishment of a tactical
photo-reconnaisance program within Fighter
Squadron 202, LT. CMDR. WILLIAM G.
WELCH won the Navy Achievement Medal.
Welch, who lives in Grand Prairie, Texas, is the
squadron safety officer.

STANLEY G. BRADING JR. was
one of six young business and pro-
fessional people who spent six weeks in Japan this

spring on a study tour sponsored by the Rotary
Foundation Group Study Exchange Program.
Brading is a partner in the Atlanta law firm
O’Callaghan, Saunders & Stumm and specializes
in international, real estate, and corporate mat-
ters. He is president-elect of the 6,700-member
State Bar of Georgia Younger Lawyers Section.

K. JOSEPH COSGROVE is employed with the
City of Virginia Beach as deputy city attorney. He
lives in Chesapeake with his wife, Sharon, and two
sons, Brent, 3, and Ryan, 1.

A profile of New York City artist R. TAYLOR
HARBISON JR. was published in the May issue
of House and Garden. Harbison’s work has also
been featured recently in The New York Times and
Architectural Digest Newsletter.

H. F. (CHIP) HOKE III and his wife, Kathy, have
returned to the University of Richmond to teach
mathematics. They have one son, 3-year-old James
Nicholas.

JOHN E. JACOBSEN produces films, writes
screenplays, and directs theatre and television com-
mercials in Los Angeles. He also supervises the
film and television division at the University of
California at Los Angeles. Jacobsen’s son, John
III, recently celebrated his first birthday.

CAPT. FREEMAN E. JONES is enrolled in the
School of Advanced International Studies at Johns
Hopkins University. He recently studied at the
Portuguese Army Staff College in Lisbon and
before that spent three years as an underwater
operations detachment commander in the First
Special Forces Group.

As a vice president with Signet Bank in Norfolk,
Va., MICHAEL D. MADDOCKS works as a per-
sonal trust business development officer. He
previously was a vice president with Chase
Manhattan Bank in northern Virginia.

JOHN E. MCDONALD JR. is general manager
of the Raleigh, N.C., operation of Coca-Cola Bot-
tling Co. He and his wife, Vanna, have three
children, Emily, 5, Courtney, 3, and John III
(Jake), 1.

As a vice president with First National Bank of
Boston, STEPHEN Y. MCGEHEE manages the
bank’s commercial lending portfolio and works
with new business efforts of large, multinational
corporations on the East Coast. He and his wife,
Ruth, have three children, Edward, 6, Benjamin,
3, and Elizabeth, 1.

DR. MARK F. PRYSI has joined Dr. Hilton
Becker in a private practice of plastic and
reconstructive surgery with offices in West Palm
Beach and Jupiter, Fla. He recently completed a
fellowship in breast reconstruction and reconstruc-
tive microsurgery at Vanderbilt University.

CAPT. JOHN R. SACKS is the battalion motor
officer of 4-34 Armor in Mainz, West Germany,
where he lives with his wife, Tina, and daughters
Katie, 4, and Melanie, 2.

DR. DAVID R. SCOTT has completed a residency
in obstetrics and gynecology and now practices
privately on the eastern shore of Virginia. He lives
in Nassawadox.

KENNETH D. SMITH is assistant editor of the
editorial page for the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

A. JEFFREY SOMERS of Wallingford, Conn.,
specializes in negligence litigation as staff trial at-
torney with Sentry Insurance Co. He and his wife,
Beverly, have two sons, Michael, 5, and Kevin, 2.

WaL 37

Jerry Short, ’77L, and Walter Ryland, ’65, ’67L,
In the Legal Limelight

When controversy
surrounded the United
States Supreme Court
this year, two Wash-
ington and Lee alumni
found themselves in
the midst of the fray.

Walter H. Ryland,
65, ’67L, an attorney
with the Richmond
firm of Williams,
Mullen, Christian &
Dobbins, successfully
argued an important
affirmative action case
before the court. He
represented the J.A.
Croson Co. in chal-
lenging a Richmond
ordinance that man-
dated racial pref-
erences for employers.

Meanwhile, Jerry
L. Short, ’77L, assis-
tant attorney general
for the state of Miss-
ouri, was involved
with Webster v. Reproductive Health
Services, the celebrated abortion
case. Short wrote the briefs for the
state, which was seeking greater con-
trol over the administration of abor-
tions, and he sat at counsel during the
arguments before the Supreme
Court.

Although the two cases involved
very different issues, they shared a
common characteristic: They elicited
widespread media attention and emo-
tional reaction from every side, both
before and after the court’s decision.
The attendant publicity and con-
troversy, say Ryland and Short, were
hard to ignore.

**During the case, outside matters
were constantly interfering, and we
got a lot of calls from the press and
interested groups,’’ Short says. ‘‘It
was an important case, and everyone
was interested in its outcome. It was

Walter Ryland

like doing everything
in the middle of a win-
dowpane.’’

Adds Ryland:
**Most of the discus-
sion about this affir-
mative action issue
comes from _ people
who have a vested in-
terest in the case.
There’s been very little
dispassionate scholar-
ship. That’s inter-
esting, because it’s ap-
parent that there’s no
middle ground on this
one.

**We expected that
the court would use
this case as a vehicle
for a strong statement.
But we were surprised
at the extreme polarity
of the response to it, at
the furor that the case
kicked up all across the
country.”’

Still, the American public has
always taken an interest in important
cases, Ryland believes. ‘‘It’s ap-
propriate and inevitable that extreme
cases evoke reactions. That’s nothing
new. What has changed is that we
now have an interest group for every
issue, so the response is more
orchestrated.

‘It always happens that cases
come along that are lightning rods.
Take the Miranda case, or the recent
flag controversy. This was just one of
those cases.”’

Yet, Short says, that’s part of
what makes the job appealing. ‘‘In
Webster v. Reproductive Health Ser-
vices, there were lots of complicated
legal issues involved, so that was
fascinating. I don’t think I would like
to do this sort of case regularly, but
on a one-time basis, it was a
fascinating experience.’’

 

"80

As a Sales associate with Baker Real

Estate in Lexington, Va., D. SCOTT
BAKER manages the firm’s farm and land sales
division. Baker’s father, I. THOMAS BAKER,
°55, is owner of the real estate firm.

Scappoose, Ore., attorneys C. CLEVELAND
ABBE and PATRICIA M. BROWN are active
with the Columbia River Bloodhound Club, a local
group of volunteers who use their dogs for search
and rescue efforts in association with the city police
and county sheriff departments. Abbe, who is
employed by Oregon Title Insurance Co., serves
the club as a director. Brown, a partner with the
firm of Spears, Lubersky, Bledsoe, Anderson,
Young & Hilliard, is president of the club.

WINSTON W. BURKS III practices corporate,
business, estate planning, administration, and tax
law with Woods, Rogers & Hazlegrove in
Roanoke. He lives in Bedford, Va., with his wife,
Cathey, and daughters, Anna and Kate.

CAPT. VINCENT COVIELLO has been reassign-
ed from Fort Bragg, N.C., to the communications
branch at the Headquarters, Baltic Approaches,
in Karup, Denmark. He expects to hold his NATO
assignment for three years.

PATRICIA GODING DAVIS is chief deputy
clerk of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals
of Virginia. She lives in Mechanicsville with her
husband, C. RICHARD DAVIS, ’68, and their
son, Christian Jay, 1.

JOHN L. FILE is an attorney with File, Payne,
Scherer & Brown in Beckley, W.Va. He and his
wife, Lee, have two daughters, Haley Broyles, who
is nearly 5, and Audrey Ashton, 1.

When ALFRED R. HINTZ became a partner in
the East Rockaway, N.Y., law firm of O’Connor
& Hayes, the firm changed its name to O’Connor,
O’Connor, Hintz & Deveney. Hintz specializes in
the defense of complex negligence and products
liability cases.

WARREN P. KEAN is an associate with the New
York City law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges.
He holds a juris doctor degree from Louisiana
State University and a master of laws degree in
taxation from New York University. Kean and his
wife, Andrea, have a daughter, Adrienne, 1.

After earning a master of business administration
degree from the University of Texas in Austin in
May, ALLAN G. KING moved to New York City,
where he is an associate in the natural resources
group of investment banking with First Boston
Corp.

A. WILLIAM MACKIE practices international
law in Washington, D.C., with the firm Graham
& James. He and his wife, Linda, live in nearby
Rockville, Md.

The Polizos Agency, an advertising, marketing,
and public relations firm in Norfolk, Va., won
awards this spring from the American Advertis-
ing Federation’s third district. GEORGE A.
POLIZOS is president of the agency, which won
the awards for a brochure produced for the City
of Virginia Beach, Department of Economic
Development, and for two newspaper ads
developed for the Virginia Department of Waste
Management’s Division of Litter Control and
Recycling.

JAMES R. SMALL is a district geologist for Mar-
shall R. Young Oil Co. in Midland, Texas.

MICHAEL C. SMITH is vice president in the in-
vestment banking division of Merrill Lynch Japan.
He lives in Tokyo.

Having completed a residency in

family medicine at the University of
South Carolina in Columbia, DR. W. SCOTT
DACUS has joined Lexington Family Practice, a
group of family physicians in Lexington, S.C.

After more than two years of practicing commer-
cial litigation and business reorganization law in
Rome, Ga., WILLIAM A. DUPRE IV has join-
ed the Atlanta firm of Bishee, Rickertsen &
Herzog.

J. BROOKS FLIPPEN of Hyattsville, Md., is pur-
suing a doctorate in American history from the
University of Maryland. He previously taught at
Trinity Episcopal High School in Richmond.

DR. SCOTT T. HOWELL is seeking a graduate
degree in biomedical engineering from Duke
University in Durham, N.C.

Having served in the White House Press Office
for six years, BENJAMIN F. JARRATT II is now
press secretary for the Small Business Administra-
tion in Washington, D.C.

GLEN F. KOONTZ is a second-year associate with
the Washington, D.C., law firm of Keller &
Heckman. His practice focuses on commercial
litigation and white-collar criminal defense.

As vice president and area sales director of Citicorp
Mortgage Inc. in Dallas, C. WARE PALMER is
responsible for mortgage business in Texas and
Oklahoma. He previously worked for Citicorp in
Richmond.

CHRISTOPHER QUIRK is employed by Fuller,
Dyal & Stamper, a graphic and communication
arts firm in Austin, Texas. He holds a master of
architecture degree from the University of Texas.

CHARLES F. RANDOLPH is assistant vice presi-
dent in the energy group of the corporate bank-
ing department of Texas Commerce Bank in
Houston.

Effective March 1, CAROLINE WAN-
NAMAKER SINK became a member of the law
firm Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson. She and her
husband, Robert, live in Charlotte.

G. SCOTT THOMAS is a partner in the Nashville,
Tenn., law firm of Bass, Berry & Sims.

After nearly five years with First Wachovia,
DAVID C. TYLER is now an associate, commer-
cial office brokerage, with Cushman & Wakefield’s
midtown office in Atlanta.

CATHERINE SULLIVAN WARD and ERIC J.
WARD, attorneys with Nixon, Hargrove, Devans
& Doyle in Rochester, N.Y., live in Pittsford,
N.Y., with their two children, Andrew, 2, and
Jessica, who is nearly 1.

NEIL J. WELCH JR. (See ’79).

EVANS S. ATTWELL is an

associate in the capital markets group
of Texas Commerce Bank in Houston. He holds
a master of business administration degree in
finance and accounting from the University of
Texas at Austin.

At the annual sales meeting of Boise Cascade
Corp. in February, SCOTT S. BOND was named
Sales Professional of the Year. Bond sells com-

modity grade, coated paper to magazine publishers
and catalog and commercial printers on the East
Coast from New York City to Miami. He lives in
Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

After flying the FA-18 Hornet Strike-Fighter while
stationed at Naval Air Station Cecil Field in
Jacksonville, Fla., LT. THOMAS L. EGBERT
left this summer for the Mediterranean Sea aboard
the aircraft carrier USS Coral Sea.

FRANK G. ENGLISH IV is a corporate banking
officer for Continental Bank. He originates cor-
porate finance transactions in southern Georgia
and southern Alabama from Continental’s Atlanta
regional office.

As deputy staff judge advocate at Lindsey Air Sta-
tion in Wiesbaden, West Germany, MICHAEL J.
FARR serves the U.S. Air Force in civil law and
government contract law.

DR. EUGENE J. FELLIN III is an intern at Lan-
caster Community Hospital in Pennsylvania. He
received the doctor of osteopathy degree in June
from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic
Medicine and now specializes in family medicine.
He and his wife, Paula, live in Lancaster.

MATTHEW L. KIMBALL is an attorney with
Niles, Barton & Wilmer in Baltimore. He and his
wife, Lydia, have two children, Everett, 4, and
Margaret, 2.

MORRIS LEWIS IV is marketing manager for
HNS Inc., a national health-care company based
in Pine Brook, N.J. He lives in Montville with his
wife, Stacey, and son, Adam, |.

DR. J. F. (SEF) LONDREY has a private dental
practice in Richmond.

RALPH J. LUONGO and his wife, M. ROBIN
MADDOX, are practicing law in Philadelphia.
Luongo is an associate with the firm Rawle &
Henderson, and Maddox practices in the area of
health and human services as a deputy city
solicitor.

JOHN M. MCGARRY is an attorney with the law
firm of Baker & McKenzie in Chicago, where
GERALD L. MAATMAN JR., ’78, is a partner.
McGarry was awarded the Navy Commendation
Medal for meritorious service while serving in the
U.S. Marine Corps from 1984 to 1988.

DAVID W. MOORE is involved in a two-year
postdoctoral position with the federal government
at the Army Corps of Engineers’ Waterways Ex-
perimental Station in Vicksburg, Miss. In
December he earned a doctorate in environmen-
tal health from the University of South Carolina.

In January East Lansing, Mich., attorney TERRY
MCKENNEY PERSON became a member of the
board of directors of her firm, McGinty, Brown,
Jakubiak, Frankland, Hitch & Henderson.

J. ANDREW SMITH is a certified public accoun-
tant with Pannell Kerr Forster, an international
accounting and consulting firm which specializes
in the hospitality and real estate industries. Smith
works in the firm’s Alexandria, Va., office.

S. BRADFORD VAUGHAN is manager of Aetna
Life & Casualty’s pension and financial services
department for the Pacific Northwest. He lives in
Seattle.

Having earned a law degree from Harvard Univer-
sity in June, JOHN C. VLAHOPLUS is now
associated with Sullivan & Cromwell in New York
City. He spent some time traveling in South
America before joining the firm.

WEL 39

Junkyard Artist

Bob Lee, ’70, likes junk.

Almost any kind of junk you can
think of—discarded automobile hood or-
naments, Or rear-view mirrors, or water
spigots, or scrap metal.

There’s enormous potential in such
objects, Lee claims, more than most of
us ever realize. When Bob Lee looks at
junk, he sees art.

By day, Lee works for the planning
department of Virginia’s Henrico Coun-
ty, near Richmond. But during his off-
hours, he can be found in a makeshift
sculpture studio—his garage (which he
refers to as ‘‘the underworld’’), where he
creates such objects as Cosmic Lizard.

Lee made Cosmic Lizard out of a
Pontiac hood ornament, aluminum from
a high-pressure hose, and rear-view mir-
rors. Another piece, Moonwalker,
originated from similar materials—parts
from an air-to-air missile.

**There’s so much out there, so many
things that get discarded,’’ Lee says.
**Most people don’t really look at rear-
view mirrors. But if you take a look at
Cosmic Lizard, the mirrors really do look
like lizard legs.

**People will see that in an exhibit and
say, ‘Oh, I could have done that.’ But
what they don’t realize is that I might
have looked through 100 mirrors before
I found the right one. You might find
another one that would be, say, a good
goose’s beak. But you’re not looking for
a goose’s beak. So you keep that in the
back of your mind, in case you ever need
a goose’s beak in the future.’’

Lee got his sculpting beginnings at
Washington and Lee, where he studied
under fine arts teachers David A. Hall
and I-Hsiung Ju. He majored in
economics, but art provided a much-
needed respite from Keynesian theory and
the gross national product.

**Sculpture was one of the things that
helped me cope with stress,’’ he recalls.
**It was a tremendous release. It wasn’t
unusual for me to study hard and take an
econ exam and then go to the studio,
where I would get absorbed in the
sculpture and stay there all night.

**You can’t do that at other schools,
because most places lock the studio up at
night. But because of the Honor System,
and Lexington’s low crime rate, they
could leave the studio open. We were able
to have access to it anytime we wanted.”’

Another important lesson that Lee ac-
quired at Washington and Lee was an ap-

Photo by Richmond Newspapers Inc.

preciation for the true meaning of the
phrase ‘‘liberal arts.’’ ‘‘It was Professor
Ju who always stressed that you don’t
have to be a full-time artist to do art,’’
he recalls. ‘‘If you’re a truck driver and
want to dabble in anthropology in your
spare time, I think that’s great. A liberal
education can continue throughout your
lifetime.”’

Lee took Ju’s advice to heart. After
graduation, he went to work for Esso,
now Exxon, in Roanoke, and later he
earned a master’s degree in planning at
Virginia Tech. But he managed to keep
his interest in sculpting, and these days,
despite his other professional and family
responsibilities (he and his wife, Ressi, are
the parents of 2-year-old Rosemary), he
nonetheless completes two or three pieces
a year. His works have been included in
exhibits in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, and
various Virginia cities. One of his
sculptures, The Penguin, composed of a
propeller and a water spigot, won a con-
test sponsored by Jnternational Sculpture
magazine and is now on display at the
House of Humor and Satire in Gobravo,
Bulgaria.

Despite the success of his art, Lee
creates sculpture less for an audience than
for himself. As during his Washington
and Lee days, he finds artistic activity a
welcome release from the pressures of
everyday living.

**I] have a strong need to sculpt,’’ he
explains. ‘‘If I weren’t doing that I would
probably be an alcoholic or a drug addict.
It’s a creative outlet that makes me feel
better and gives my life meaning.’’

 

cil in Washington, D.C., where he lives with his
wife, Jill.

GEORGE E. YOUMANS JR. is assistant vice
president with First Wachovia Corp. in Atlanta.

JAMES W. BRADNER IV is
employed by Computerland in An-
napolis, Md., where he lives with his wife, Helen.

LUKE M. CORNELIUS of Cocoa Beach, Fla.,
is instructor of history and social sciences at
Brevard Community College and also is a profes-
sional employee of Florida’s Department of Health
and Rehabilitative Services. He holds a master of
arts degree in European history from the Univer-
sity of Georgia. His thesis investigated the Rus-
sian civil war in the Baltic.

HENRY W. DEWING is attending the Colgate
Darden School of Business at the University of
Virginia. He previously was employed as an
engineer by Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone in
Washington, D.C.

Having graduated from Washington University
Medical School in St. Louis in May, DR. JEF-
FREY D. DIXON is now a resident in emergency
medicine at the University of Oklahoma Health
Sciences Center in Oklahoma City.

STEPHEN C. HARTIGAN, a real estate ap-
praiser with Manufacturers Hanover Trust Bank
in New York City, is working toward a master of
business administration degree at Fordham
University.

THOMAS C. IMESON III is a sales representative
for Chesapeake Corp. in West Point, Va. He and
his wife, Penny, live in Williamsburg.

DR. CHRISTOPHER W. IVES is a resident in
internal medicine at Ochsner Medical Foundation
in New Orleans. He is a 1989 graduate of Loui-
siana State University Medical School. He and his
wife, Lynn, celebrated their first wedding anniver-
sary in August.

   

After two years with the
| public relations firm Man-
ning, Selvage & Lee in Atlan-
ta, GLEN O. JACKSON is
now senior account ex-
ecutive. His clients include
Mobil Land Development
(Ga.) Corp., Wilma
Southeast, and the Atlanta
Organizing Committee. He
and his wife, Claire, have one daughter, Virginia
Suzanne.

1ST LT. DANIEL M. JAYNE is a member of the
number one-ranked U.S. Army rugby team, which
recently made it to the semifinals in the Military
National Rugby Tournament. Jayne is stationed
in Fort Bragg, N.C.

LT. LANDON H. JONES, a teacher at Massanut-
ten Military Academy in Woodstock, Va., toured
Australia this summer while taking a graduate
course on that country’s educational system.

MARK D. KNOBLOCH is a corporate banking
officer in the real estate finance division of
Equitable Bank in Baltimore.

In a move from Hickory, N.C., to Blacksburg,
Va., FRED A. LACKEY was promoted from a
sales representative to a terminal manager with
Roadway Express.

Having finished his tour in the U.S. Army in
March, CARL N. LAUER is now an attorney with

the firm of Niles, Dulaney & Parker in Remington,
Va. He lives in Warrenton.

JAMES H. MCNULTY JR. earned a master of
laws degree in taxation from Boston University in
May. He is a tax counsel in Boston for
Massachusetts’ Department of Revenue.

Having earned a degree from the Tulane Univer-
sity School of Medicine in June, DR. JOHN H.
MOORE is now a resident in obstetrics and
gynecology at the Duke University Medical Center
in Durham, N.C. Moore is a member of the Alpha
Omega Alpha medical honor society.

KENNETH S. NANKIN is an associate at the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Zuckert, Scoutt
& Rasenberger. He is a member of the Virginia
Bar.

As a reporter with The Richmond News Leader,
G. BRUCE POTTER covers state government and
politics and the General Assembly.

DR. WILLIAM R. SANDERSON, a 1989
graduate of the University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center in Dallas, began a residency in
urologic surgery in July at the Louisiana State
University Medical Center in Shreveport.

JACK C. BENJAMIN JR. is on

assignment in Chicago as a consul-
tant for Andersen Consulting, a division of Ar-
thur Andersen & Co. He works out of the New
York City office.

IST LT. RICHARD A. O. BENNETT is pursu-
ing a doctorate in pharmacology from the Medical
College of Virginia campus of Virginia Com-
monwealth University. His research includes
cancer chemotherapy and mechanisms of DNA
repair.

Having earned a law degree from the University
of South Carolina in Columbia, WILLIAM P.
EWING is now working with the Atlanta firm of
Morris, Manning & Martin.

JAMES D. FARTHING is a commercial real
estate broker with Boyd, Brown & Co. in Houston.

In August PAUL J. FEINMAN joined the Lynch-
burg, Va., law firm of Fralin, Freeman & Kinnier
as an associate. He was previously a clerk for
William E. Anderson, a U.S. bankruptcy judge.

JOHN MONCURE FRITSCHE is pursuing a
master of laws degree from New York Universi-
ty. A 1989 graduate of the Wake Forest Universi-
ty School of Law, he sat for the Virginia Bar in
July.

MAJ. PHILIP L. HANRAHAN (See ’76).

Having served as assistant soccer and lacrosse
coach at W&L for two years, WILLIAM T.
HOLMES II is pursuing a master’s degree in sports
management from the University of
Massachusetts. He also will be an assistant lacrosse
coach at the school.

BRIAN G. HOWLAND left the Philadelphia law
firm of Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young to join
the smaller, suburban firm Connolly, Chandor &
McAndrews in Doylestown, Pa. Howland, who
practices real estate and corporate law, now works
with CHRISTOPHER B. CHANDOR, ’68.

At the 13th Annual Robert F. Wagner Sr.
Memorial Moot Court Competition held in New
York City in March, F. S. (TED) LECLERCQ was

named best oral advocate. LeClercq earned his law’

degree from the University of Tennessee in May
and spent the summer as an associate with the San
Diego law firm of Gray, Cary, Ames & Fry. He
is now aclerk for Judge Falcon J. Hawkins, U.S.
District Court, in Charleston, S.C.

BARBARA LEE MORRIS, an attorney with
McDonnell, Boyd, Smith & Solmson in Memphis,
Tenn., is a member of the board of directors of
the Memphis Bar Association Young Lawyers
Division.

MCGOWIN I. PATRICK JR. is employed in the

mergers and acquisitions group of Sun Trust Cor-
porate Finance in Atlanta.

TIMOTHY U. STANFORD is an associate with
the Dallas law firm of Bracken, Hummert &
Wathen.

J. MACGREGOR WHEELER is an on-site pro-
motions manager with the Professional Golfers
Association tour. He holds a master’s degree in
sports administration from St. Thomas Universi-
ty in Miami. Wheeler lives in Atlanta.

SHEILA R. YOUNG practices law with the firm
of Perrin, Perrin, Mann & Patterson in Spartan-
burg, S.C.

WILLIAM A. BROWN, a loan of-

ficer in commercial finance at
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.C., has been elected banking officer.

ALEXANDER A. CHAMBERS is a corporate
banker with First Wachovia in Atlanta. He holds
a bachelor of business administration in finance
from the University of Georgia.

ENSIGN ROBERT S. DUGUAY of Waverly,
Pa., is a 1989 graduate of the U.S. Naval
Academy.

JAMES C. FOLEY works for the Bank of New
York’s Wall Street trust division in Manhattan.
He lives in Mount Vernon, N.Y.

PAUL E. GILES of Beverly Farms, Mass., is
working for the family business Porter-Ferguson
Inc. He previously taught English and worked for
an electronic company in Taiwan. While in the Far
East, he traveled through China, Tibet, Nepal, and
Thailand with PETER L. BOATNER, ’88, and
EDUARDO GONZALEZ, ’88.

JONATHAN W. HEDGEPETH is pursuing a law
degree from Mercer University in Macon, Ga.

JAMES A. HOLMES, a third-year law student at
Loyola University, spent the summer as a clerk
with the New Orleans firm of Christovich &
Kearney.

JOHN K. HUDSON JR. is an associate in the mer-
chant banking division of Signal Capital Corp. in
New York City. He shares an apartment with three
W&L alumni, including JAMES L. HAYNE JR.,
’86, and A. J. (JUD) ELLIS JR., ’86.

MICHAEL A. KING practices corporate law with
Schulte, Roth & Zabel in New York City, where
he lives with his wife, Leah.

THOMAS G. KNIGHT, a new account sales ex-
ecutive with Centel Communications Systems in
Chicago, was recognized as a $1 million producer
for the 1989 fiscal year.

GLEN F. KOONTZ (See ’82).

CRAIG T. MONROE is a recruiter for technical
and computer positions with Pinkerton Computer

W&L 41

Natural Nutrition

Don Caffery, ’76, owes it all to pollen.

When Caffery first came to
Washington and Lee from New Orleans
in the early ’70s, he developed the hay
fever that is a common reaction to the
pollen-filled environment of the Valley of
Virginia. ‘‘It was sneeze city,’’ he recalls.

Caffery tried taking shots for his hay
fever. But they didn’t help, so in despera-
tion he turned to another possible
solution—a natural-foods diet.

That switch changed his life in more
ways than one. It helped clear up his
allergies—and it also launched him on a
successful and unusual business career.

Today, Caffery is the owner of a
health-food grocery store in Richmond,
where he lives with his wife, artist Angie
Wiggins. Good Foods Grocery has 26
employees and stocks 7,000 items, most
of them with all-natural ingredients. The
store also caters to special diets, such as
low-fat, sugarless, saltless, and
vegetarian.

The business is successful, Caffery
says, and for several reasons. ‘‘Super-
markets don’t carry all the food in the
world,’”’ he says. ‘‘We carry stuff they
don’t.’’ Besides, he adds, ‘‘justice doesn’t
always happen, but truth usually prevails,
and the world is turning more and more
to a health-food diet. Bran, yogurt—these
things began in the health-food world,
and now everybody’s eating them. A lot
of things we started have become
mainstream. When new movements start
up, many times the natural foods industry
leads the way.’’

In addition, Caffery believes that
health-food stores offer greater customer
service than traditional supermarkets do.
‘‘When you walk into a natural-food
store, you will often find a statement of
purpose. How many supermarkets have
that? The supermarkets are there solely
to sell what people want. But here is a
store that cares about your health to a
greater degree, and people catch on to
that.’’

Good Foods Grocery is founded on
a number of principles, such as a com-
mitment not to sell items with artificial
flavors and colors; an emphasis on whole-
grain and organically grown foods; and
a desire to meet individuals’ special
dietary needs. The store’s customer ser-
vice, Caffery believes, is ‘‘unequaled.’’
‘*We tackle special orders with glee, and
we have a money-back guarantee. If you
buy some vitamins and they upset

Photo by Richmond Newspapers Inc.

your stomach, even if there’s nothing
wrong with the vitamins, we’ll take them
back. We want the customers to be
happy.”’

Although Caffery worked for his
brother’s bread distributing company in
Shreveport following his graduation from
W&L, his start in the health-food business
really came when he returned to Lex-
ington in 1977 as assistant coach for the
tennis team. When he wasn’t helping with
backhands, he was making his own
peanut butter and peddling it to local
grocery stores. Before long he was sell-
ing bread for Arnold Bakery Co. in
Roanoke and even bought a bread
distributorship before starting his own
store, All Natural Foods, in New Orleans.

In 1985, Caffery and his wife moved
to Richmond and started Good Foods
Grocery. He hopes to open a new store
in the area next January.

Caffery views his business as more
than simply a grocery store. It is also an
educational enterprise. He publishes a list
of foods carried in the store that meet
special needs, such as a low-salt or dairy-
free diet. He also offers a monthly gazette
that covers contemporary nutrition issues,
such as the debate over the chemical Alar.

But the most important thing, Caffery
believes, is to show people the benefits of
a healthy diet. ‘‘When people come in
here after they’ve found out they have to
go on a low-sodium diet, you see them
with their heads hanging down. You have
to tell them, ‘Look, you might not like
everything you try. But your tastebuds
can change. Just give it a chance.’ ”’

 

ere

CHARLES L. LYLE is employed with NCNB Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte.

KEVIN C. MILNE has spent a year as judicial
clerk for Judge Ellsworth A. Van Graafeiland, 2nd
Circuit, U.S. Court of Appeals. He lives in
Rochester, N.Y.

CHRISTOPHER T. MUNSEY is employed by the
Maryland Gazette, a twice-weekly newspaper
covering Glen Burnie, Md., which is south of
Baltimore.

RICHARD G. PARKHURST JR. is employed
with NCNB National Bank in Charlotte.

ALEXANDER T. RICHMOND is pursuing a
degree in applied mathematics from the Universi-
ty of Utah in Salt Lake City.

F. EVANS SCHMIDT of New Orleans is study-
ing law at Louisiana State University.

GARY W. SCHOTT works in the prenatal
diagnosis laboratory at Johns Hopkins Medical
School. He lives in Sterling, Va.

S. GARTH SCHULZ works for Sen. Richard C.
Shelby of Alabama in Washington, D.C.

DONALD N. TORTORELLI of Middletown,
N.J., is enrolled in the chemistry doctoral program
at the University of Rhode Island.

Having finished Ranger Camp at Fort Benning,
Ga., 2ND LT. JOHN E. VEATCH II is now sta-
tioned in Monterey, Calif., with a light unit.

BRADFORD L. WATKINS is working at First
Atlanta Bank in Atlanta.

Having earned a master of law degree in taxation
from the College of William and Mary, DAVID
B. WILKS joined the Richmond firm of Sands,
Anderson, Marks & Miller. He works in the firm’s
tax section of the business law department.

MARIE DUNNE-WHITE won first

place in the undergraduate division
of the 1989 Carol Burnett/University of
Hawaii/Association for Education in Journalism
and Mass Communications ethics competition.
Her winning paper, titled ‘‘Plagiarism and the
News Media,’’ will be published in the fall issue
of the Journal of Mass Media Ethics. Carol
Burnett sponsors the ethics competition using
money she was awarded in a libel suit against the
National Enquirer. Dunne-White lives with her
husband, Jay, in the Washington, D.C., area,
where she is the assistant managing editor for the
Youth News Service.

DOUGLAS C. MARTINSON II is pursuing a
master of laws degree in taxation from Boston
University.

 

 

 

Marriages

BEN E. GRIMM, ’49, and Lucy Ann Taylor on
Jan. 21, 1989. The couple lives in Montclair, N.J.

 

DR. MICHAEL R. DUBIN, ’56, and Barbara
Peirez Kirby on May 28, 1989. They have five
daughters from previous marriages. Dubin prac-
tices internal medicine and pulmonary and critical
care medicine in Glen Cove, N.Y.

GEORGE R. JONES JR., ’73, and Cindy Sunder-
mann on May 27, 1989. The couple lives in Dallas,
where Jones is a partner in the commercial real
estate firm Industrial Associates Inc.

P. M. (FLAMER) FLEMING, ’75, and Anne
Taylor Kennedy on May 27, 1989, in Millers
Tavern, Va. Fleming is now a stepfather to Neil
Taylor Kennedy, 12, and Matthew Taylor Ken-
nedy, 5. Fleming is employed with Rappahannock
Community College in Warsaw, Va. The family
lives in King and Queen Court House.

RICHARD G. LATTURE, ’81, and Elizabeth
Hudson of Greensboro, N.C., on May 20, 1989.
The couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

DR. J. KELLY MOLES JR., ’82, and Emelie
Marie Waldrop on May 6, 1989, in Birmingham,
Ala. Moles is a medical resident at the University
of Virginia Hospital. The couple now lives in Cro-
zet, Va.

JOHN EDWARD MONROE, ’82, and Susan
Chamblin Riddick on April 22, 1989. The wed-
ding party included Monroe’s classmates Frank
dela Houssaye (Del) Agnew, James S. Kaplan, and
Robert M. Waymouth as well as Madison T.
Woodward III, ’81, and John E. Buttarazzi, ’83.
The couple lives in Atlanta, where Monroe works
in the investment banking group of Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc.

DR. M. PARKER ROBERTS III, ’82, and Dr.
Suzanne Marie Grondin of Fryeburg, Maine, on
April 22, 1989. Both the bride and groom are
finishing up medical residencies at Tulane
University.

ROBERT A. WILLIS, ’82, and Suzanne Byrd
Bishop on June 17, 1989, in Princeton, N.J. Willis
is a commercial real estate developer in the con-
struction management division of McBride Enter-
prises, which is based in Franklin Lakes, N.J. The
couple lives in Jersey City.

DAVID C. BOWEN, ’83, and Valerie L. Havard
on April 22, 1989. G. Amory Le Cuyer, ’83, was
a groomsman. The couple lives in Norfolk, Va.,
where Bowen practices law with Willcox & Savage.
He specializes in civil litigation defense with an em-
phasis on products liability and medical
malpractice.

DAVID M. KOOGLER, ’83L, and Heather Doty
of Houston on April 8, 1989. After a honeymoon
in Australia, Koogler returned to his practice of
banking law with Butler & Binion in Houston.

LEE R. FELDMAN, ’84, and Stacey H. Smith on
Dec. 11, 1988, in Miami. David L. Miller, ’84, was
best man, and Kelly J. Niernberger, ’82, was an
usher. Feldman is assistant city manager for the
City of North Miami Beach.

P. M. (NICK) LEITCH III, ’84, ’87L, and
CATHERINE ANNE STRONACH, ’87L, on
April 22, 1989, in Covington, Va. Gregory H.
Haynes, ’84, was a member of the wedding par-
ty. Leitch is an attorney with Woods, Rogers &
Hazlegrove in Roanoke. The couple lives in Fin-
castle, Va.

BRUCE ELIOT DOUB, ’85, and Laura Elizabeth
Waldrop on May 6, 1989, in Salem, Va. The cou-
ple lives in Catonsville, Md.

K. SCOTT VAN METER, ’85, and Sharilyn Durin
on March 18, 1989, in Tampa, Fla. One of the
groomsmen was Michael C. Lord, ’85. Van Meter

is a third-year law student at Stetson University
in De Land, Fla., and has worked for Stearns,
Weaver, Miller, Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson in
Tampa.

WILLIAM E. WHITE III, ’85, and Blair Marie
Gibbs on Nov. 19, 1988, in Washington, D.C. The
wedding party included White’s classmates James
W. Bradner IV, Andrew B. Cole, and George N.
Seavy as well as James T. Daly, ’83, J. Charles
Nelson, ’86, David M. Butler, ’87, and Eric R.
Acra, ’88. White is director of personnel/quality
with Chesapeake Container Corp. in Richmond.

MARSHALL R. YOUNG, ’85, and Susan E.
Seagel on Nov. 19, 1988, in Boston. Young is
associated with Young Oil Corp. in Fort Worth,
Texas.

TERRANCE J. DUNN, ’85L, and ELEANOR A.
PUTNAM, ’86L, on June 24, 1989, in Lee Chapel.
Dunn is an attorney with the Lynchburg, Va., firm
of Fralin, Freeman & Kinnier. Putnam joined the
Lynchburg firm Edmunds & Williams in March.

KENNETH L. LINDEMAN, ’86, and Margaret
Rose Mathis on June 24, 1989. Lindeman earned
a master of science degree in computer informa-
tion systems from Boston University’s overseas
division in June. He is stationed with the U.S. Ar-
my in West Germany.

GEORGE E. (ZEKE) MCDOWELL, ’86, and
Kimberly A. Karr on June 10, 1989, in Oklahoma
City. Participating in the wedding were classmates
Bruin S. Richardson III, Jeffrey W. Kimbell, J.
David Nave, and Matthew J. Coudert. McDowell
holds a master’s degree in European history from
the University of Texas at Austin and teaches at
Heritage Hall in Oklahoma City.

CHRISTOPHER J. MILITELLO, ’86, and Don-
na Maree Scott on March 4, 1989, in Nelson, New
Zealand. The couple now lives in St. Louis.

RICHARD H. MORRIS, ’86, and Susan C. Bryan
on April 29, 1989, in Montgomery, Ala.
Groomsmen included Alexander R. Fitzenhagen,
’85, Bryon T. Eppley, ’86, Carlton Simons Jr., ’87,
James A. Augustus, ’87, Ronn W. Mercer, ’88,
and J. Baxter Sharp III, ’88. Morris is employed
by Whittaker Corp. in Decatur, Ala.

BRUIN S. RICHARDSON III, ’86, and Sarah F.
Sessoms on May 27, 1989, in Lexington. Members
of the wedding party included Todd D. Jones, ’85,
George E. McDowell, ’86, and R. Holder Trum-
bo Jr., 88. Robert A. Vienneau, ’87, ’90L, and
P. M. (Nick) Leitch III, ’84, ’87L, provided the
music. Richardson is an attorney with Hunton &
Williams in Richmond.

MICHAEL D. CARTER, ’87, and Katherine
Honan on June 3, 1989, on Block Island, R.I.
Carter is stationed at Fort Stewart, Ga., where he
is a firing platoon leader in Alpha Battery 13th
Field Artillery. He and his wife live in Savannah.

R. KEVIN BERNSTEIN, ’88, and Anne H. Sher-
man on June 24, 1989, in Richmond, Va. The cou-
ple lives in Salisbury, Md.

MATTHEW S. BRYANT, ’89, and Caroline B.
Edmunds on June 3, 1989, in Lee Chapel. Three
members of the class of 1988 were ushers: Hunter
A. Applewhite, Andrew N. Hart, and Robert S.
Ryan. A vocal quintet at the ceremony included
Eric A. Heinsohn, ’83, and John P. Riordan, ’87.
Bryant is employed by the Casady School in
Oklahoma City.

W&L 43

ning Commission. He was a past president and
trustee of Margaret Paxton Memorial for Con-
valescent Children Inc. in Leesburg, where he also
had served as warden and vestryman at St. James’
Episcopal Church.

ROBERT LEE TELFORD, ’22, chairman
emeritus of Mason & Hanger-Silas Mason Co.
Inc., one of the nation’s foremost defense contrac-
tors, died May 2, 1989, in Naples, Fla. An
engineering student at W&L, Telford accepted his
first position with Mason & Hanger Co. in 1917
and worked on the construction of New York
City’s East River Subway tunnels, the George
Washington Bridge, and the Lincoln Tunnel. He
remained with the company his entire career,
becoming executive vice president of Silas Mason
Co. in 1943, and in 1950 vice president and direc-
tor of Mason & Hanger Co. When these two com-
panies merged, he was named executive vice presi-
dent of Mason & Hanger-Silas Mason Co. Inc.
After one year as the company’s president in 1975,
he became chairman of the board. Telford, a life
member of the American Defense Preparedness
Association, lived his last 30 years in Naples. He
was president and chairman of Naples Community
Hospital and sole contributor to the Telford Foun-
dation, which supports 12 charitable organizations.
He was a member of First Presbyterian Church
of Naples.

PERCY DAVIS AYRES, ’24, who spent his en-
tire career in the securities business, died Jan. 29,
1989. Having attended W&L for two years, he
joined the Philadelphia area office of Merrill
Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith in 1934. He retired
from the firm in 1970 and later served as treasurer
of the Merion (Pa.) Community Association.

NORFLEET TURNER, ’24, chairman emeritus
of First Tennessee Bank, died April 22, 1989, at
his residence in Memphis. Turner began his career
as a transit clerk at Union Planters National Bank
and Trust Co. of Memphis in 1923, and three years
later he became associated with Commerce
Securities Co. In 1929 he became vice president
and manager of First Securities Corp., an affiliate
of First National Bank of Memphis (now First
Tennessee Bank). Four years later he was named
vice president of First National Bank. He was ap-
pointed executive vice president in 1937 and presi-
dent in 1943. Under his management, the bank
matured from a $29 million institution to an $800
million institution. He retired in 1970 after serv-
ing as chairman for 10 years. During his career,
Turner was a director of the Association of Reserve
City Bankers, president of the national bank divi-
sion of the American Bankers Association, a direc-
tor of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a trustee
of Southwestern at Memphis and of Berea Col-
lege in Kentucky, and president of the Memphis
Community Fund. He was also a member of St.
John’s Episcopal Church.

ROBERT OLIVER BENTLEY JR., ’26L, a New
Jersey attorney who served as a municipal judge
before retiring to Lexington, Va., died April 5,
1989. Having attended Bowdoin College in Maine
for one year, Bentley enrolled at W&L, earned his
law degree, and practiced law on his own in
Hackensack, N.J., from 1928 to 1956. During
World War II, he served as a second lieutenant
in the U.S. Army Medical Administrative Corps.
During his career, he was a judge in the police
court in Hillsdale, N.J. In 1956 he formed the
Hackensack firm Plympton & Bentley. He retired

46 W&L

to Lexington in 1972. He was a member of the
Rockbridge Historical Society and served W&L as
a class agent.

JAMES KAY THOMAS, ’26L, retired West
Virginia attorney and former speaker of the House
of Delegates, died May 23, 1989. In 1926 he joined
the Charleston law firm of Morton, Mohler &
Peters. While a partner in the firm Hill & Thomas
in 1932, he was elected to the West Virginia House
of Delegates. He was reelected to four successive
terms while a partner with Ritchie, Hill & Thomas.
He served as speaker of the House from December
1936 to January 1941. In 1942 he was commission-
ed a captain in the U.S. Army Air Corps and
served for 27 months overseas. He was relieved
from active duty with the rank of lieutenant col-
onel in 1945. After the war he joined the state at-
torney general’s office as first assistant. He serv-
ed until 1948, when he joined Atlantic Greyhound
Corp. as general counsel. He was employed in
several executive positions with the company’s suc-
cessor, Greyhound Corp., until retiring in 1965.
He then was appointed state commissioner of the
Department of Motor Vehicles. Thomas was a
trustee of Charleston General Hospital for more
than 20 years and served as president of the board
for five. He was also a director of Charleston Na-
tional Bank. At the time of his death, he was a
member of St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church in
Charleston.

DR. HOWE REESE COLEMAN, ’27, an
ophthalmologist from Lexington, Va., died May
24, 1989. After attending W&L for two years, he
enrolled in the University of Virginia’s medical
school and graduated in 1929. He completed an
internship at Roanoke Hospital and then opened
a general practice in Rockbridge Baths. He also
worked in Lexington before returning to the
University of Virginia to study the specialty of eye,
ear, nose, and throat medicine. As an eye
specialist, he practiced in West Virginia and North
Carolina before moving his practice to Lynchburg,
Va., in 1941. After 15 years, he moved back to
Lexington, where he was on the staff of Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. Coleman, a fellow of the
American Academy of Ophthalmology and
Otolaryngology, retired from his practice in 1987.
He was an elder of the Lexington Presbyterian
Church.

CHRISTOPHER BRYAN EDWARDS V\V, ’27,
retired president of the Moeschl-Edwards
Manufacturing Co. of Covington, Ky., died May
28, 1989. He joined the door manufacturing com-
pany after earning his degree from W&L. During
World War II the company expanded its produc-
tion to include Navy oven doors, floor furnaces,
bomb-cluster holders, and bulkhead doors. Ed-
wards also built and operated large houseboats on
the Ohio River.

THE REV. LOUIS ALDWORTH HASKELL,
29, a retired Episcopal minister, died May 13,
1989, at the Westminster-Canterbury House, his
residence in Virginia Beach. After earning a com-
merce degree from W&L, he worked with an
Augusta, Ga., dairy business untill enrolling at
Virginia Theological Seminary in 1935. He earn-
ed a bachelor of divinity degree in 1938 and
became an assistant at Christ Church in Raleigh,
N.C. From 1940 until 1946 Haskell was rector of
St. John’s Episcopal Church in Suffolk, Va. He
later served as rector of St. John’s Church in
Florence, S.C., and of St. John’s Church in
Charleston, W.Va. In 1961 VTS awarded him an

honorary doctor of divinity degree. He then
became rector of Grace and Holy Trinity Church
in Richmond, where he served until retiring as rec-
tor emeritus in 1977. Haskell was a former trustee
of VTS and a former member of the board of
governors of St. Catherine’s School in Richmond.
He had lived in Virginia Beach since 1983.

EDWARD MILES RILEY, ’31, director of
historical research at Colonial Williamsburg from
1954 to 1976, died June 1, 1989. After graduating
from W&L, he earned a master’s degree and doc-
torate at the University of Southern California.
He began his career as head of the social science
department at Pacific Military Academy in Culver
City, Calif. He then served as assistant park
historian at Colonial National Historical Park in
Yorktown, Va., before spending the 1938-39
academic year as a teaching fellow in history at
the University of Southern California. Before mov-
ing back to Yorktown to work as park historian,
he spent a year as head of the social science depart-
ment at Southwestern University in Los Angeles.
During World War II he served in the Supply
Corps at Norfolk (Va.) Navy Yard until he was
released to inactive duty as lieutenant commander
in the U.S. Navy Reserve. He returned once again
to Yorktown and then served a year as a historical
consultant for the War Assets Administration. In
1949 he became chief park historian at In-
dependence National Historical Park in
Philadelphia. He joined Colonial Williamsburg
Inc. as director of research in 1954. An author of
numerous articles in historical periodicals, Riley
also wrote several books, including Jamestown in
the Words of Contemporaries. He was a member
of Bruton Parish Church in Williamsburg, where
he served as senior warden.

FRANCIS EDWARD FULLER, ’32L, an at-
torney from Atlanta, died Jan. 10, 1989. A 1928
graduate of Norwich University, he began prac-
ticing insurance law in Atlanta after earning his
law degree from W&L. He was later employed by
American Automobile Insurance Co. and moved
to St. Louis. Fuller returned to Atlanta to prac-
tice law privately. During his career he also served
as county administrator for Fulton County in
Georgia.

JOHN KEITH (PETE) CLARK, ’33, retired presi-
dent and executive officer of the New York print-
ing company Keith Clark Inc., died March 28,
1989. After attending W&L for two years, Clark
went to work for Keith Clark Inc. as a salesman.
He was elected president of the company in 1939.
During World War II, he served in the infantry.
Clark was a former member of the Marine
Midland Trust Co. advisory committee. At the
time of his death, he lived in Port St. Lucie, Fla.

WALTER DEARING CLINE JR., 733, an oil
producer and rancher from Boerne, Texas, died
Sept. 26, 1988. After attending W&L for three
years, he moved back home to complete his
geology degree at the University of Texas. He had
been a self-employed, independent oil producer
since 1931.

GEORGE DOUGLAS MCCLURE, ’34, a retired
Dallas insurance agent whose clients numbered
more than 12,000 between 1935 and 1975, died
Oct. 25, 1988. After graduating from W&L,
McClure enrolled in the home office training
school of Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. in Hart-
ford, Conn. He graduated in 1935 and establish-

ed the George D. McClure Agency in Dallas. In
December 1942 he enlisted in the Army Air Corps
and with the rank of captain served as chief of the
ground safety division at the Army Air Forces Air
Transport Command headquarters. During his
career he was a director of Carter Development
Corp., Aztec Stone Co., Dallas Crime Commis-
sion, and Dallas Traffic Commission. He also was
a director of Shriner Crippled Children’s Hospital
in Houston, potentate of Hella Temple Shrine in
Dallas, a Democratic precinct chairman, and a
member of the American Society of Safety
Engineers.

THOMAS LUTHER COLEY JR.., ’35, a retired
actor and writer who appeared in 15 Broadway
plays, died May 23, 1989, in his log house in Ty-
ringham, Mass. His Broadway debut was in The
Taming of the Shrew with Alfred Lunt and Lynn
Fontanne. He was in the original production of
Our Town and played George Gibbs in the West
Coast production with Martha Scott and Frank
Craven. He toured with Arlene Francis in Janus
and with Larry Parks in Teahouse of the August
Moon. He also costarred with Hume Cronyn and
Jessica Tandy in Big Fish, Little Fish at Duke of
York’s Theater in London. Besides appearing in
countless television productions, Coley wrote
scripts for a number of television shows, including
‘‘Mama.”’ He was also coauthor with William
Roerick of the Broadway play The Happiest Years.
Coley served on the council of Actors’ Equity
Association. During World War II, he was a
member of the military police in Alaska for three
years and reached the rank of captain.

CHARLES PARKHILL LYKES, ’39, chairman
of the Tampa, Fla.-based Lykes Bros. Inc., died
May 25, 1989. After earning his commerce degree
from W&L, he joined the family cattle business
started in 1910 by his father and six uncles. Dur-
ing World War II he served in the Pacific Theater
in field artillery, earning a Bronze Star and the
rank of lieutenant colonel. After the war he
became vice president of Lykes Bros. and then in
1957 was appointed president of what is now a cat-
tle, citrus, meatpacking, shipping, banking, and
utility empire. A self-proclaimed ‘‘cattleman,”’
Lykes had served as a director and past president
of the Florida Cattlemen’s Association. He was
also a member of the National Cattlemen’s

Association. Lykes had served as chairman of the
United Fund of Greater Tampa, president of the
Boys’ Clubs of Tampa, trustee of the University
of Tampa, and annual giving chairman of the
University of Florida Alumni Association. He also
was active with the Florida State Fair Association,
the Florida Council of 100, the Lowry Park Zoo,
and the Boy Scouts of America. At the time of
his death, he was chairman of Lykes Energy Inc.,
Shore Management Inc., Lykes Pasco Inc., Lykes
Development Corp., Lykes Insurance Inc., and
M&M Supply Co.

WILLIAM HOUGHTON DAVIDSON, ’43, a
retired sales executive and longtime resident of
Washington, D.C., died April 17, 1989. After
studying at W&L for three years, he enlisted in
the U.S. Army Air Corps and was based in China
and India for nearly four years. He returned to
W&L and earned a commerce degree in 1948.
After his career in the sales field, Davidson retired
to Edgewater Beach, Md.

FRANCIS MADDOX (MATT) JOHNSTON, *46,
of Greensboro, N.C., died May 8, 1989. While a
journalism student at W&L, he joined the U.S.
Army and served as a sergeant in the 90th Infan-
try Division. The recipient of two Purple Hearts,
he was stationed in England, France, Belgium, and
Germany and fought under Gen. George Patton
at Normandy on D-Day. Johnston returned to
W&L after the war, earned his degree, and entered
a career as an insurance agent and as a real estate
broker. He was a member of First Church of

_ Christ Scientist in Greensboro.

ROBERT H. FIELDS, ’51L, former sheriff and
deputy prosecutor for Marion County in Indiana,
died Feb. 9, 1989. At the age of 17, he enlisted
in the U.S. Marine Corps and served during World
War II in the south and central Pacific. When he
was released from active duty in 1946, he had
reached the rank of corporal. After earning his law
degree from W&L, Fields was recalled to active
duty and served for three years as an infantry of-
ficer in Korea. In 1954 he spent several months
as title attorney for Indiana’s highway department
and then was appointed a special agent of the FBI.
Five years later he accepted an appointment as
deputy attorney general of Indiana for highway
matters. In 1961 he entered the private practice of

And Furthermore

‘‘An Unjust War’’?

EDITOR:

I could not resist commenting on W. Patrick
Hinely’s recent letter in the Winter 1989 issue of
the Alumni Magazine. While I don’t disagree for
the most part with his analysis of certain frater-
nities’ obnoxious behavior, or the need to penalize
it (it was there in our day), I do disagree with cer-
tain other statements of his.

For example, he states, ‘‘What really galls me
about this attitude shown by some present frat
members is more than merely their contemp-
tuousness or self-righteousness. It is their perver-
sion of the practice of civil disobedience. When
students of my day sat in the streets blocking traf-

fic to the Pentagon, it was to protest what we knew
to be an unjust war. History has proven us right.
I doubt it will do the same for these uppity little
boozers.”’

Well, now. First, Mr. Hinely and his sort have
no moral monopoly on the techniques of American
civil disobedience. It seems Mr. Hinely and his ilk
feel only ‘‘they’’ had the right to practice civil
disobedience—I’ve read of the same proprietary
reaction to the anti-abortion Rescue movement.
It seems the Left of the ’60s and early ’70s feel
they invented it, and have the patent on it. Well,
Mr. Hinely will just have to stand by and reap the
(unintended) rewards of his earlier efforts.

It must be pointed out that the war in Vietnam
has not been proven by ‘‘history’’ to be an unjust

law in Indianapolis and within two years became
Marion County’s grand jury deputy prosecutor.
In September 1963 he was named Marion County
sheriff. Fields later served as attorney for the Small
Business Administration.

HENRY K. HILL JR., ’51, a native of Louisville,
Ky., who lived in Hilton Head, S.C., died June
1, 1989. After earning a degree from W&L, he
joined the sales department of Tube Turns, a divi-
sion of Chemetron Corp. in Louisville. In 1960
he was promoted to manager of the company’s
Philadelphia district. Later, as sales manager of
custom forgings, he was responsible for covering
sales in the United States and Canada. During his
career, he also served as manager of Power Pip-
ing Co. Hill moved to Hilton Head in 1981.

ARTHUR EAMES WRIGHT BARRETT JR.,
55, a Houston attorney in the investments and oil
producing business, died April 22, 1989. After
earning his bachelor’s degree from W&L, Barrett
joined an insurance business in his hometown of
Dallas. He subsequently enrolled in the Universi-
ty of Denver’s law school and in 1962 earned his
law degree from-the University of Houston. Dur-
ing his career, he was a member of the American
Bar Association and was on the University of
Houston’s athletic advisory board. Barrett was a
member of St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church.

JUDGE SPIROS B. SKENDERIS, ’59L, secretary
of the Virginia Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Courts, died June 1, 1989. A University of Virginia
graduate, he worked in private practice until 1965,
when he became assistant commonwealth’s at-
torney for the City of Danville. He served in the
U.S. Army during the Korean War. In 1970 he was
appointed judge for Danville’s Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court. Skenderis was the co-
founder of the Big Brothers program in Danville
and was a past president and member of the choir
at St. Peter’s Greek Orthodox Church.

DANIEL HUGH MCDOWELL, ’90, of Stam-
ford, N.Y., died June 21, 1989. He was pursuing
a double major in history and French at W&L and
was a member of the Film Society, the Ski Club,
the Outing Club, the Student Voting Regulations
Board, and the Glee Club.

Alumni Opinion

war—if it has been shown after 15 years to be
anything, it was a very just war. Why else would
thousands upon thousands of Vietnamese have
braved since then pirates, famine, the loss of
homeland, landmines, and other obstacles to flee
Communist Vietnam, something they never did
prior to 1975? The designer of the Vietnam
Memorial is the child of just such people. While
the Americans fought in Vietnam, the Khmer
Rouge were held at bay in Cambodia—is Mr.
Hinely proud of the ‘‘just’’ results from our
pullout in that devastated land?
CurT N. SMITH, ’76
Manassas, Va.

W&L 47

 

Here’s One for the Honor System
Or, Confessions of a Dyslexic

by Robert P. Kingsbury, ’37

From time to time articles are written to extol the virtues of
our Honor System. Perhaps another one might be of passing in-
terest. God only knows if someone else suffered the difficulties
of getting a college education at Washington and Lee while be-
ing dyslexic and not knowing it.

Let me explain.

As you may or may not know, a dyslexic is defined as some-
one who has a reading disability. To someone who is dyslexic
and doesn’t know it, it means a lot more.

I am a slow reader. I still am unable to spell without the
assistance of dictionaries, computers, and a most helpful and
tolerant wife. My numbers and letters are very often transpos-
ed. It is a problem with determining left and right instantly. It
is common to become disoriented in unfamiliar surroundings.

Since I was convinced that I was last in line when brains were
distributed on the day of my birth, the determination that I was
stupid was a natural sequitur. And as I had been told that poor
grades and a lifetime of ditch-digging went hand in hand, it seem-
ed provident that I develop any compensating attributes to
forestall moving earth with a spade in my adult years.

It did not take a long time for me to discover that the public
education system was based on mistrust of the student and that
tests, to determine one’s grades, were conducted with the premise
that cheating was expected and detected culprits punished.

My grades were far from my parents’ high expectations. So
with good eyes, good hearing, smart cooperative friends, and an
ingenious ability to improvise, I developed a procedure consum-
mate with the rules. For example: In the classroom one sits at
the left of a right-handed, smart buddy (the other side if he’s
left-handed) and behind brilliant, small people; if possible, sit
at a new desk and inscribe hard-to-spell words in the varnish with
a pin (these are almost impossible to observe except at a specific
angle); if called upon to recite in class, stand close to the desk
of your ‘‘A’’ student chum holding a paper or book to conceal
any verbal communication.

In addition, the art of printing dates, notes, and formulas

on shirt cuffs, concealing them in pant cuffs, inscribing them on
wrists, or sticking them to the underside of your desk on digesti-
ble paper, had to be developed to avoid any possible chance of
detection or suspicion. The above techniques, along with a lot
of hard work which far exceeded the efforts of my more gifted
peers, enabled me to graduate from high school with a grade
average to get me into W&L, barely.

The joy of getting into college turned to despair at the first
freshman indoctrination meeting where we were told about the
Honor System. One can only imagine the horror that cascaded
upon my poor soul. While I could justify cribbing in elementary
school, where one was not trusted, there was no way I could
tolerate it under a system which allowed free access to informa-
tion and where one pledged to be honest.

During the following four years, I actually wore out three dic-
tionaries; tried to conceal from my friends that I had a problem
by blacking out the light in my dorm room in the wee hours of
the night; wrote and rewrote my assignments so that they would
be acceptable; and chose accounting as my major field of
endeavor, because it obviously had fewer words (but unfortunate-
ly many more transpositions).

Had I gone to some other university without an Honor
System, obtaining a degree would obviously have been easier,
but at the cost of a lesser education and a lifetime of debased
self-esteem.

It was only about five years ago, while watching a public
television program describing the problems of the dyslexic, that
I discovered to my great joy that stupidity was not the problem,
just some loused-up genes.

As I read about dyslexia, I discovered that one of the best
treatments is repetition. When you don’t crib, you learn by
repeating the task at hand over and over until you have it cor-
rect and can retain it.

Perhaps you have heard the story of the dyslexic philosophers
who, after years of deliberation, concluded: There is no DOG.

I owe the Honor System.

 

nomeqeyibh

October 6-8

 

 

kiniday, October 6

12:10 p.m. The John Randolph Tucker Lecture, Richard
A. Epstein - James Parker Hall Professor,
University of Chicago Law School

12:30 p.m. Luncheon for the Five-Star Generals, Alumni
Board, ACAP Coordinators and their spouses

2:00 p.m. ACAP Workshop, Welcome and Orientation

3:30 p.m. Student/Alumni Panel on ACAP Success

6:00 p.m. Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming
Queen Court

7:30 p.m. Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

8:00-10:00 p.m. Cluster Reunion Party, General Headquarters

 

Saturday, October 7

 

 

 

9:15 a.m. ACAP Coordinators Review the Pilot
Program
10:30 a.m. Starting an ACAP Program in Your Chapter
11:00 a.m. Women’s Cross Country vs. Mary Baldwin
and Lynchburg College
11:30 a.m. Panel Discussion: Admission to Selective
Colleges
11:30 a.m. Women’s Soccer vs. Randolph-Macon
, Woman’s College
HIVE-STAR GENERALS’ REUNION 12:00 p.m. Men’s Cross Country vs. Catholic University
and Lynchburg College
ALUMNI CAREER ASSISTANCE 12:00 p.m. Alumni Luncheon
PROGRAM WORKSHOP 2:00 p.m. Football: Generals vs. Maryville, Wilson Field
3:00 p.m. Men’s Soccer vs. Mary Washington
4:30 p.m. Alumni Reception

CLUSTER REUNION

for the Classes of 1986, ‘87, 88, and 89 Sunday, October 8

1:00 p.m. Alumni vs. Varsity Lacrosse Game

For more information write:

Homecoming °89
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

The Alumni Magazine of Non-Profit Org |

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY U's. Postage,
Lexington, Virginia 24450 wri xieummmmmase, permit No. 6

5 . Cincinnati, OH

 

Martha Fryer Gay, Vanessa Hicks, and Jim Higgason, ‘85, were among the 115 third-year
students who received degrees from the School of Law in May. See story about both of
Washington and Lee’s commencement ceremonies on page 2.

