 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 57, Number 2, March 1982

William C. Washburn, °40 ...........0 00. c cee cece e ee ees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ...............c cece eee eee Associate Editor
Robert Fure ......... pete ae tdge essen esseese Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter 1.2.20... cece cece cence eee eee es Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ...............eceee seen e ees Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
President Huntley to Step Down ......................... 1
Remarks on a Liberal Education .......................4. 4
Jay Cook: A Profile ©......2....5...c.cceveceecervereeceneess 8
Junior-Junior Advertising Execs ..................e0seee 10
Arch Sproul: A Profile ................ ccc ccc eee cece ee eee 12
Law Students Teach .................. ec eeee ee eee seen ones 14
A World-Class Canoeist ...............2.sccceeeeeeeeeeeees 16
Three New Scholarships .................:escceeeeeeeeeees 19
W&L Gazette ................0. ie eee 20
Unknriown Pans: -.03.... vs 28
Winter Sports Roundup ...................:cceeeeeeee eee es 29
Chapter News. .....-2.0..4...5 6.2 oe 31
Class Notes 4020..5).0.05 Ae 32
In Méeniorani. 2.6 ae 43

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 751, Nashville, Tenn.
President

JOHN H. McCorMAck Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
Vice President

W. DONALD Bain, ’49, Spartanburg, S.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.

OweEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.

SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio

G. RUSSELL Lapp, ’57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.

WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., ’56, Crossett, Ark.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: This photograph by University Pho-

tographer W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, combines two of Lex-

ington’s most memorable and cherished landmarks:
Washington Hall topped by Mathew Kahle’s statue of
George Washington with House Mountain in the back-
ground. A similar photograph, also by Hinely and in
color, will be on the cover of the 1982-83 W&L catalogue.

 

 

 

President Huntley, 1982 oe

Ar ONE o’clock on the afternoon of Feb. 1, the electrical power
went off in most of the buildings on Washington and Lee’s campus.

Shortly after power was restored two hours later, Robert E. R.
Huntley stood before a meeting of the University’s faculty and
announced that he will resign as president at the end of this calendar
year.

‘‘I want you to know,’’ Huntley said, ‘‘that the announcement I am
making here and this afternoon’s power failure on the front campus are
purely coincidental.’’

Maybe so. Yet, the announcement was a greater shock to the vast
majority of the W&L community than the brief power outage had
been.

Huntley’s announcement to the faculty was greeted by an audible
chorus of groans and gasps—the disbelief mixed with equal portions of
dismay.

Once the remarks were concluded and the meeting adjourned, the
faculty rose spontaneously and applauded Huntley as he left the
auditorium. | 3

Though many on the campus had suspected that such an
announcement was inevitable, most everyone confessed the timing had
come as a genuine surprise. Huntley made his plans public less than
two weeks after he told a Founders’ Day convocation that the
University had raised $67 million, surpassing its goal by $5 million,

 

President
Huntley

To Leave
Office

In December

Search for Successor
Begins Immediately

 

 

during the 10-year development program that he spearheaded.

Huntley’s decision was by no means a sudden one.

As early as last October, Huntley had informed the University’s
Board of Trustees of his plans.

James M. Ballengee, rector of the board, said the trustees had
accepted Huntley’s resignation ‘‘with the greatest regret.’’

Added Ballengee: ‘‘It is my personal view that President Huntley
has been the most outstanding president of Washington and Lee since
Robert E. Lee.

‘*The 14 years of his presidency have seen the accomplishment of
his objective and those of the board. Under his leadership we have
completed the most successful development effort in the history of the
University. Our faculty is stronger for his years as president, and he
has enlarged and enhanced tremendously the dedication of the alumni
and friends of Washington and Lee.’’

In his remarks to the faculty and in a letter he sent to all alumni of
the University, Huntley explained his decision by saying: **When I
became president, 14 years ago this week, it seemed to me that a
college president ought to set general objectives he would like to see
achieved over a decade or so, and thereafter should step aside. I
believe that usually it is better for a new person to lead the institution
into the next cycle of its life. . . . Quite simply, I feel I have been in
the job long enough.”’

A search for Huntley’s successor is under way.

The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees will serve as the
board’s search committee. The committee members are the rector,
Ballengee, and trustees Thomas D. Anderson, S L Kopald, Sydney
Lewis, Edgar F. Shannon Jr., Isaac N. Smith Jr., and Jerry G. South.

In addition, a 14-member Presidential Search Advisory Committee
has been established on the campus. That committee is composed of
the current members of the faculty advisory committee along with all
members of the current faculty who previously have served on the
advisory committee, a member of the law school faculty, and a non-
voting secretary.

Members of the committee are Dr. William J. Watt, dean of the
College; Dr. Edward C. Atwood, dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics; Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, professor of
romance languages; Dr. William Buchanan, professor of politics; Dr.
Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of English; Dr. John DeVogt,
professor of administration; Dr. Edward H. Hamer, professor of
romance languages; Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of psychology;
Dr. William A. Jenks, professor of history; Dr. Samuel J. Kozak,
professor of geology; Andrew W. McThenia Jr., professor of law; Dr.
Edgar W. Spencer, professor of geology; Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., dean
of the School of Law; and, Dr. John H. Wise, professor of chemistry.
Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the president, will serve as the non-
voting secretary for the committee.

The Presidential Search Advisory Committee will receive all
nominations, rate (but not rank) the nominees according to criteria
which the committee sets after consultation with appropriate

2

 

Addressing graduates

 

Addressing alumni in Lee Chapel

 

 

 

constituencies, forward the nominees’ names to the Board of Trustees’
search committee, and serve in any other way the trustees may direct.

Various groups representing constituencies of the University have
been asked to assist, in supplying both criteria and names of
candidates. The Student Body Executive Committee will represent the
students. The Faculty Executive Committee will represent the faculty.
The Alumni Board will represent alumni.

Any student, faculty member, or alumnus can of course make
nominations directly to the committee.

The Board of Trustees will consult the Presidential Search
Advisory Committee in considering the selection. The ultimate
decision rests with the trustees.

‘As difficult as the task is that faces us, we know that time after
time through the last two centuries Washington and Lee has met the
challenge of attracting an outstanding individual to be our president,’’
said Ballengee. ‘‘The Board will follow our well-established procedure
in commencing our search for a new president to lead this great
institution in the years ahead.’’

Huntley has indicated that his future plans are indefinite. He did,
however, tell the faculty that he was not leaving the presidency
because of ‘‘some special aspiration to take another position. ’’
Specifically, Huntley emphasized that he will not be a candidate for the
position of dean of the School of Law. That is the position Huntley
held for one semester before he was named president in 1968.

A 1950 graduate of the University and a 1957 graduate of the
School of Law, Huntley is the first alumnus to serve as W&L’s
president since pre-Civil War times. He is the 20th president of the
University and is Robert E. Lee’s seventh successor as president.

Editorial praise for Huntley came quickly from the two newspapers
that have followed his career closely during the past 14 years.

The Ring-tum Phi, Washington and Lee’s student newspaper,
devoted the front page of its Feb. 4 issue entirely to the story of
Huntley’s announcement. On its editorial page, The Ring-tum Phi
wrote: ‘‘President Huntley was unique in that he was able to handle
both the academic and financial crises of this school with precision.
While he strove at all times to meet the school’s financial needs, he
never lost sight of the value of the liberal arts education. In this
respect, the University will be fortunate to find a man of equal
talents.’’

Meantime, The News-Gazette of Lexington called Huntley’s tenure
as president ‘‘certainly one of the brightest periods in the University’s
history.

‘*During this 14-year period, Huntley has presided over the
University with brilliance, with humor and with a refreshing lack of
pomposity. ,

‘“The time has been a difficult one for college presidents and many
of them have given up in despair. The tides of national change have
swept over the institutions of higher education, but Washington and
Lee has remained steadfast in its dedication to academic excellence and
to the ideal of freedom with responsibility. ’’

 

Addressing freshmen

 

At 1980 Mock Convention

by Sidney M. B. Coulling
Professor of English

Remarks
On

Liberal
Education

 

Dr. Coulling addresses Founders’ Day-ODK convocation

Dr. Coulling made the following remarks at the Founders’ Day-
Omicron Delta Kappa convocation on Jan. 19. His speech followed
the announcement by President Huntley of the successful completion
of the University’s decade-long Development Program that raised
$67 million.

We have not generally shown in this country much tolerance for
a custom sometimes observed in other lands on an occasion such as
this; namely, allowing a kind of court jester to mock our solemn
pretensions and thus remind us of the finiteness and transiency of
all human achievement. When Charles Darwin received an honorary
degree from Cambridge, for example, he was greeted by the catcalls
of undergraduates who dangled above his head a monkey and a
large ring signifying the missing link. And when Robert Browning

Se

was similarly honored at Oxford, an undergraduate lowered from
the gallery of the Sheldonian Theatre a red cotton nightcap in
recognition of Browning’s implausibly entitled poem, Red Cotton
Night-Cap Country. Perhaps we are too young and insecure a nation
to welcome such raillery. Or perhaps we simply lack the English
gift for pageantry and are certain that something will always go
wrong anyway to bring us back to reality: the howling of a stray
dog, the wail of the noon siren, the sudden and inexplicable
breakdown of the public address system, as I recall its doing once
during a baccalaureate service when it uttered a shriek of protest
just after the Almighty had been entreated to deliver us from all
discord.

When I was invited to make remarks on this occasion, therefore,
I could not but have been aware of the possibility that the role I was
to play—though certainly not the role I was asked to play—was one
such as I have described. There was, in the first place, the occasion
itself—a Founders’ Day convocation—and I well knew the dread
with which some of my colleagues, now seated intimidatingly
before me, faced yet another Founders’ Day message, with its
predictable three divisions: first, the grim depiction of the present
age as one of unprecedented challenge and difficulty; next, at the
most dramatic moment, when all hope seems to have vanished, the
invocation of the magical names of the founding fathers; and,
finally, the consoling assurance that if we emulate the courage with
which they met adversity we might survive to celebrate Founders’
Day the following year.

But far more intimidating was the fact that this was to be no
ordinary Founders’ Day. Even the most jaded veteran of our
observance of January 19 must agree that today is a very great day
in the more than two and a quarter centuries of Washington and
Lee’s history. How, I asked myself, could I possibly be adequate to
such an occasion, to say anything even remotely worthy to follow
news of the successful completion of an extraordinarily ambitious
campaign? As a child I was often told of the lonely efforts by the
rector of Washington Academy to raise funds for his struggling
school, traveling by horse throughout much of the state and
returning from one absence to discover that the academy had lost to
fire its only building of any size. As an undergraduate I was
periodically reminded that although James River Canal stock might
not be what it once had been, some of my tuition was still being
| paid by the gift from George Washington. And as a member of the
. faculty I shared the embarrassment felt here when the drive to
| finance what is now Parmly Hall fell substantially short of its
objective. What can I say, then, after an announcement that the
University has raised a sum of money, to use a figure that may in
some manner relate it to our founding fathers, more than four times
that of the Louisiana Purchase? !

I am by profession not a fund-raiser but a teacher of English
literature, and I learned long ago that one of my calling can partly if
not entirely conceal his inadequacies by relying on a text. And so I
have adopted that stratagem today, choosing as my text a classic
treatise on liberal education that may help remind us of the ultimate
purpose for which these millions have been given to Washington
and Lee. It is the series of lectures—or discourses, as they were

 

 

called—which John Henry Newman delivered in Dublin, Ireland,
130 years ago this spring and which we now know as The Idea of a
University. Newman had been invited to become the first president
of a recently created university for Catholics in Ireland and to define
in a series of lectures the educational philosophy on which it was to
be based. But despite the honor thus conferred on him, the
invitation presented Newman with enormous difficulties. For one
thing, the university over which he was to preside was virtually
non-existent; it had no buildings, no endowment, no faculty, no

‘students. For another, the audience to whom he was to define the

aims of the university already had fixed ideas about what those aims
should be. On the one hand were the staunchly religious and
sectarian, like the Primate of Ireland, who when inviting Newman
to deliver the lectures had made clear that their purpose should be
‘‘to persuade the people that education should be religious,’’ or, as
a priest later explained to Newman, that the primary end of the
university was ‘‘making men Catholics or making Catholics good

 

For [Newman] knowledge was a complete
circle of linked parts; for us, if we must describe
it by geometric form, it is Rubik’s cube.

 

Catholics.’’ And on the other hand were the equally determined
utilitarians, those who thought of colleges as places that
disseminated useful knowledge and who the previous year had
witnessed the triumph of their views when the Crystal Palace
opened in London to celebrate the achievements of the Benthamite
school and of British industry and technology.

Between the demands, on the one hand, for religious or
sectarian instruction, and on the other for vocational or professional
training, Newman steered a course that could please neither side.
The aim of a university, he said, was not moral or religious or
practical, but intellectual—it is the cultivation, the enrichment, the
enlargement of the mind for its own sake. Newman doesn’t deny
the value of practical, utilitarian education and indeed declares that
life without it would be impossible. But he is talking about a
different kind of knowledge. ‘‘When I speak of Knowledge,’’ he
explains, “‘I mean something intellectual . . .; something which
takes a view of things; . . . which reasons upon what it sees,
and . . . invests it with an idea.’’ Neither does Newman deny that
liberal education is compatible with moral or religious instruction.
But the two are not the same, he says; knowledge is one thing,
virtue another. Nor does he deny that liberal education contributes
to professional training. On the contrary, he goes on to argue that
the enrichment of the mind necessarily serves ends beyond itself.
But this is to press the argument further than required, past the
basic and indispensable premise, which is that knowledge may be
pursued as an end in itself. In essence, then, liberal education as
Newman defines it ‘‘is simply the cultivation of the intellect, as
such, and its object is nothing more or less than intellectual
excellence.’’

The past never returns, Newman once observed, and my

5

a ee ee

Remarks on a Liberal Education

purpose in speaking of him today is not to hold up his discourses of
a century ago as absolute models by which to shape our thinking
about liberal education at the present time. Although he has been
rightly called ‘‘one of the greatest intellectual forces Oxford has
ever known,”’ it can hardly be denied that huge chasms now
separate his thought from ours. For him, truth was one and
indivisible; for us it is multiple and infinitely fragmented. For him,
knowledge was a complete circle of linked parts; for us, if we must
describe it by a geometric form, it is Rubik’s cube. For him it was
reasonable to say that the function of a university is to teach
universal knowledge; for us, to say so is to voice an absurdity.

But for anyone with an ear to listen there is a timelessness in
much of Newman’s argument that speaks to our own era no less
than to his. Even if we concede that contemporary rhetoric has
created what Wayne Booth terms phony polarities—artificial
antagonisms—t is still true that educational thought is as sharply

 

. . Who can deny that in contemporary
education advances in technology have been
attended by loss as well as by gain?

 

divided today as in Newman’s age. Those who expected him to
insist that education should be moral and religious have their
present-day counterparts in the creationists, the book burners, the
anxious parents who seek for their sons and daughters ‘‘safe’’
colleges where cherished beliefs go unchallenged. And the
utilitarians have theirs in those who are interested only in a
marketable product, who believe that everything bears a price tag
and whose sole measurement for the value of a college education is
the security of job and income it offers.

And there are still more significant parallels. Newman was
aware, for example, of the phenomenon that has become the bane
of higher education—overspecialization—for at Oxford he had
known narrow-minded pedants, embalmed corpses impersonating
scholars, the kind that Carlyle satirized as Dryasdust, that George
Eliot brilliantly depicted as Casaubon in Middlemarch, and that the
historian G. M. Young later characterized as ‘‘the Waste Land of
Experts, each knowing so much about so little that he can neither be
contradicted nor is worth contradicting.’” Newman never condemns
specialization as such, recognizing its essential place in the modern
world. But he stresses the need for general culture, for balance and
breadth, for a view of things beyond the confines of one’s specialty.
His own mind, according to a remarkable tribute by one of his
ablest students, ‘“was world-wide. He was interested in everything
which was going on in science, in politics, in literature. Nothing
was too large for him, nothing too trivial, if it threw light upon the
central question, what man really was, and what was his destiny.’’

But Newman was equally aware of the misinterpretation to
which an emphasis on breadth is susceptible—that liberal
education, as it’s popularly conceived, means knowing a little bit
about everything. He had seen Oxford emerge from the doldrums in
which it had languished for decades and he knew firsthand the

6

legacy of those years—idle young men whose only resources for
enduring daily life were games and drink—but he believed that the
wrong method had been employed to shake the university out of its
lethargy. The great mistake, he said, had been ‘‘distracting and
enfeebling the mind by an unmeaning profusion of subjects; of
implying that a smattering in a dozen branches of study is not
shallowness, which it really is, but enlargement, which it is not.’’
For Newman, knowledge means accurate, precise knowledge—
knowledge clearly and firmly held—and the end of a liberal
education is not merely the acquisition of this knowledge but the
energetic action of the mind on it.

He was aware, of course, of how difficult was this pursuit of
knowledge for its own sake, of how practical considerations
constantly impinge upon it and divert its true course. He would not
have been surprised by the current obsession with grades in
American colleges, for the intensely competitive educational system
of England had introduced him to similar problems. Under the
pressure of his final examinations at Oxford he suffered a serious
breakdown and failed them sensationally, adding his name to the
list of gifted men and women whose occasional failures give
comfort to us ordinary mortals. Newman later came to view his
illness as divine punishment for intellectual pride—for preferring
intellectual to moral excellence, for seeking not knowledge itself
but the power and applause it might bring him—and in The Idea of
a University he implicitly rejects the pursuit of knowledge for self-
serving reasons and stresses instead the virtue of intellectual
humility, as in his celebrated definition of a gentleman, whose
almost excessively modest and self-effacing manner seems to
express Newman’s effort to conquer the temptation to do what
Thomas Becket, in Murder in the Cathedral, calls *‘the right thing
for the wrong reason.”’

But whatever the motive, Newman insisted that the pursuit of
knowledge was not easy. There can be no true learning, he says,
‘without exertion, without attention, without toil.’’ Yet he was
aware of forces in the world that promised relief from this labor.
Living as he did early in the age of the mass media, he saw in the
new printing presses that could produce books by the thousands the
dangerous temptation to believe that a nation could be painlessly
and passively educated simply by the multiplication of printed
volumes. No doubt there was in his view a mixture of Oxonian
contempt for democratic education and donnish blindness to the
possibilities of modern inventions. But who can deny that in
contemporary education advances in technology have been attended
by loss as well as by gain? What, for example, is our response to
the fact that across the nation today enrollments in traditional
courses in British and American literature are lower than those in
science fiction? Or what is our response to the recent assertion by
the Vice Chancellor of UCLA that it’s ‘‘common knowledge that
our high school students, with a handful of exceptions, are ill-read,
inarticulate, and largely unconcerned about their intellectual well-
being,’’ or our response—to show that the deficiency is not
peculiarly American—to the statement by a famous Japanese film
director, quoted this past month in The New Yorker, that
‘University students [in Japan] only watch television and read

 

comic books’’? Education is ‘‘a high word,’’ Newman reminds us,
and we ought not to speak of being educated when we really mean
being ‘‘amused, refreshed, soothed, put into good spirits and good
humour. ”’

For Newman, moreover, the pursuit of knowledge was not
merely arduous; it was also perilous. He was fully aware of the
truth of which President Huntley has reminded us in the past—that
education is a dangerous enterprise. Like his fellow convert, Gerard
Manley Hopkins, he knew that the ‘‘mind has mountains; cliffs of
fall/Frightful, sheer, no-man-fathomed.’’ At the age of 14, after
reading some French verse that denied the immortality of the soul,
he had exclaimed to himself, ‘‘How dreadful, but how plausible!”’
And in the conclusion to his Apologia he speaks of the human
intellect as ‘‘wild,’’ ‘‘capricious,’’ ‘‘untrustworthy.’’ No wonder
Huxley said that he could compile a primer of infidelity from the
works of Cardinal Newman. But if there is danger in using the
mind, there is equal danger, Newman recognized, in not using it.
He was thoroughly familiar with the romantic malaise of
introspection, of morbid self-consciousness, of Byronic despair and
ennui—the malaise that has its contemporary counterpart in
boredom, in the absence of motivation and sense of purpose, in the
kind of paralyzing indifference that has provoked a faculty member
at Ohio University to say, as quoted in a recent issue of the
Washington Post, that his students ‘‘take down anything and spit it
back to me even though they don’t believe it. The reason is they
don’t believe anything.’’ The mind can never be released from
such inertia, Newman believed, unless it is exercised on the world
without. And though he had surrendered claim to complete freedom

 

[Newman] was fully aware of the truth of
which President Huntley has reminded us in
the past—education is a dangerous enterprise.

 

of thought when he submitted to the infallible church, deep
impulses that he seems never finally to have subdued led him to
insist that the use of the mind is both our right and our duty.
Nothing, he says at the beginning of The Idea of a University, can
prevent the human intellect from speculating; and at the end, when
arguing that the ultimate purpose of education is to prepare one for
the world, he declares that ‘‘the way to learn to swim in troubled
waters’’ is to go into them.

He was drawn to nautical imagery, as this last phrase might
suggest, and one imagines that he admired the tribute Wordsworth
paid to Newton’s mind, “‘forever/Voyaging through strange seas of
thought, alone.’’ In any case it is significant, I think, that the image
serves a crucial purpose in The Idea of a University no less than in
the Apologia. A stormy sea is Newman’s metaphor for the
intellectually confused as well as for the spiritually adrift, and a
port his metaphor for the cultivated mind as well as for the Roman
Catholic Church. The voyage to intellectual enlargement is no less
long, difficult, and hazardous than Newman’s own voyage to
Rome, but both voyages end in repose, in the satisfying sense, as

Newman puts it in another context, of knowing and of knowing that
one knows. The intellectual certainty that terminates one voyage is
the certitude of faith that terminates the other, and the ‘‘calmness,
moderation, and wisdom’’ of the liberally educated are thus the
secular equivalents of the peace that passes all understanding.

I have been serving this year on a committee which is studying
some of the same questions that Newman wrestled with more than a
century ago. There have been moments during our deliberations, I
must confess, when I’ve feared that the final report we are directed

. to submit will have been anticipated by the ancient myths of Ixion

and Sisyphus. But on the whole I have been heartened, encouraged
by the seriousness with which the faculty regards its
responsibilities, by its genuine concern for the intellectual health of
the individual student and of the University as a whole, by its deep
commitment to the ideals of Washington and Lee, which, to use
Newman’s language, is ‘‘an Alma Mater, knowing her children one
by one, not a foundry, or a mint, or a treadmill.’’ At times our
debates have been lively, as they should have been, for one sign of
the vitality of a university is the interest it takes in its work; and
colleagues have responded in a way befitting members of a faculty,
which Newman defines as an ‘‘assemblage of learned men, zealous
for their own sciences, and rivals of each other, [who] are

brought . . . to adjust together the claims and relations of their
respective subjects of investigation.’’ It is too early to report on the
progress of our work, and this would not be the appropriate
occasion to do so even if it weren’t. But I think it would not be
inappropriate to remark that our work is part of the nationwide
effort now being made to reexamine educational objectives and that,
according to the deputy chairman of the National Endowment for
the Humanities, this reexamination has produced thus far ‘‘an
almost universal reaffirmation of the centrality of the liberal arts.”’

I would hope that our own study will lead to a similar
reaffirmation and that Newman’s lectures will play a part in making
it. Some will object, I’m certain, ‘‘But they are an impossible
ideal.’’ Of course they are, but universities are founded on ideals,
and the pursuit of those ideals keeps them alive. The facilities the
University now enjoys are an impossible ideal to one who knew
only the straitened circumstances of Washington Academy. The
subjects it offers today are an impossible ideal to one who knew
only the narrow curriculum of Washington College. And the
announcement by President Huntley is so impossible an ideal that
the best way I know to suggest its mind-boggling dimensions is to
ask the question, ‘‘What would Mr. Mattingly think?’’

This is a time for celebration, then, for releasing balloons and
not lowering monkeys or red cotton nightcaps. It is a time for
congratulations, to you, Mr. President; to the Board of Trustees;
and to Mr. Hotchkiss and his associates, on the stunning success of
this campaign. It is a time for gratitude, to Dean Sensabaugh for his
expert leadership of the campaign in the University community, and
to all those here and elsewhere—faculty, administration, staff,
students, parents, alumni, friends—who have given so generously.
And, finally, it is a time for renewal, for rededication of our efforts
to assure that at Washington and Lee ‘‘knowledge may be increased
among us, and all good learning flourish and abound.”’

7

 

Sometimes, touching an elegantly
elaborate weave, Jay Cook can almost hear
him: a high, thin voice calling out the
design, one knot at a time, somewhere back
centuries ago in the mountains of Persia.
Busy on the loom before him are brightly
dressed little girls, their tiny fingers working
with magical speed as they thread, tie, and
cut the knots. Row by row the chanting
continues until, many weeks later, a brilliant
tribal carpet, its colorful luxuriance a relief
from the bleakness of life in the Persian
highlands, is cut from the loom.

‘‘Long ago,’’ says Professor Cook,
*‘there were men traveling from village to
village who could chant from memory the
precise order of literally thousands upon
thousands of knots in one of these rugs.
There were no written directions. Rug-
makers had to rely on these chanters, whose
remarkable memories contained the codes of
tribal designs.’’

So, in its early phase, rug-making had an
oral tradition. Cook ignores the observation,
gazing absentmindedly at the vast Heriz
carpet below him, the music of its fanciful
weave still faintly audible.

Oriental rugs are Cook’s ‘“‘hobby.’’ Over
the years, he and his wife, Flossie, have
assembled a small collection. In the mid-
seventies, however, when the price of
orientals more or less forced him out of the
market, Jay Cook began to manufacture
them. A largely aesthetic interest in rugs
took on a new dimension. It required needle
and yarn and, above all, a great fund of
patience. Cook’s profound knowledge of
rug-making lore no doubt helped to supply
him with the latter.

‘‘Actually, anyone can do it,’’ Cook
insists with characteristic modesty. ‘‘I have
no special talent, and my fingers are rather
large and clumsy.’’ He has you almost
believing him until he shows you a rich
Bukhara, which he fashioned over several
months in 1978. ‘‘See.’’

Lifting the rug to examine its underside,
what you see are thosuands of delicately tied
knots—that is, no simple task. Cook runs off
to retrieve another. In his absence, what you
may also see (Cook does not encourage this
sort of speculation) is a vague relation
between his hobby and his ‘‘business.’’ This
requires some elaboration.

For 29 years, Jay Cook has taught
accounting in the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics. Educated at
Washington and Lee (’44, B.A. in history),
Cook took his M.B.A. in foreign trade at the
Wharton School after World War II.

‘‘T did my graduate work in business
mainly with an interest in teaching. I was

by Robert Fure

Jay Cook:
Exactitude
In Hobby
And

Accounting

A Profile

 

Working on a Bukhara is one way Jay Cook gets
through the evening news.

never much interested in ‘doing.’ ’’ He
laughs.

Cook’s first teaching job was at Denison
University. He came to Washington and Lee
in 1953 when Lou Adams was dean of the
Commerce School.

‘Those first years were pretty rough. I

 

was teaching a variety of economics and
accounting courses at Denison and, at the
same time, commuting between there and
Ohio State University, where I was working
on a Ph.D. in marketing.’’

Cook earned the degree in 1956 while at
We&L and a year later became head of the
accounting department. In 1981,
acknowledging his distinguished service to
the University, W&L’s Board of Trustees
named him to the Mamie Fox Twyman
Martel Professorship. ‘‘I guess they wanted
some old codger,’’ Cook said.

In his long association with the
University, Cook has seen Washington and
Lee grow from what he describes as ‘‘pretty
much a country club school’’ into a school
with *‘a much broader spectrum of
students,’’ a result, he observes, of larger
scholarship funding. He has not noticed a
significant change in the academic level of
the student body, though he does believe
that, with a larger, more highly trained
faculty, a greater number of course offerings,
and vast improvements in the physical plant,
the University itself has developed
considerably.

**Actually, I can’t make up my mind
about the back campus area. I suppose that,
in time, it will take on some of the charm of
the front campus. Of course the new library
and the various renovations of campus
buildings have been great improvements.
McCormick Hall [new home of C School] is
quite comfortable. For 25 years in
Newcomb, I had to speak at the top of my
voice to be heard.’’ He smiles quietly and
wonders, “*“Gosh, do you suppose anyone
heard me?”’

Cook doesn’t look his 60 years. He stays
in good trim through regular games of
handball. His light brown hair bolt upright in
what seems a long afterthought to a crewcut,
‘traditional’ approach to the teaching of
suggests pleasant, mild surprise.

He is a teacher who clearly enjoys his
work—and tirelessly. While he is a
profoundly good citizen to both the
Lexington and W&L communities, having
served on several boards and committees
both inside and outside the University, Cook
seems after 29 years still quite absorbed in
the teaching of accounting. ‘“There’s enough
happening in the field to keep me interested.
Actually, accounting itself requires a great
deal of creativity and ingenuity. Teaching it
requires probably even more.”’

Cook leans back in his chair, surprised
perhaps that his listener might have some
curiosity about such matters.

‘‘T have always maintained that the
‘traditional’ approach to the teaching of
accounting has probably resulted in cheating

 

 

Cook examines an elegant Heriz

the students. It’s my belief that we should be
much more conceptual, or theoretical, in our
approach.”’

But isn’t accounting by its very nature
opposed to theoretical speculation, one may
ask—and as an academic discipline, isn’t it
one subject in which the student may be
spared the inhibitions of conceptual self-
examination? “‘Well,’’ says Cook flatly,
‘‘you should try not to confuse accounting
with mere bookkeeping.’’

‘‘In its simplest definition, accounting is
the provision of financial information. This
provision of information, however, is much
more analytical than a simple recording of
Statistical data. The problem of the
accounting profession is to collect data
verifiable enough that one can rely on it
when making, say, investment decisions.

‘Traditionally, accounting relies
primarily on historical cost in supplying the
data relevant to an investment decision. It
assumes that historical cost is not really at
issue as the proper model for determing the
performance of a particular investment. But
in many cases, the supposedly reliable data
of historical cost can prove to be actually
misleading, even perhaps irrelevant, criteria.

‘‘In conceptual accounting courses, we
are teaching students that information is itself
problematic, that historical cost, for
example, is not the be-all and end-all of the
data an accountant can manage. We are
helping students to learn how to evaluate
different kinds of information, to work more
knowledgably with variables and with the
future expectations of a particular

 

“‘the music of its fanciful weave still faintly audible.’’

investment. The student is thus learning
more about the investment decision itself.’’

Cook’s mission in conceptual accounting

has led to experiments in the teaching of
accounting within his department. This year,
half of the students enrolled in the
introductory course will follow the traditional
‘‘meat and potatoes’’ approach. The other
half will sit in the more theoretical
sections—in a course somewhat more
interrogative than methodological.

‘“We will be following their progress
later in administration and advanced
accounting courses to see if there is a
difference in their levels of comprehension.’’
At this point, the data are still perhaps
unreliable, yet Cook, a conceptualist after
all, has his questions clearly in mind.

But what has all this to do with rug-
making? ‘‘Oh, that’s just something I do
while I’m watching TV. If I don’t do
something, I feel that I’m wasting my time.”’

Cook’s avocation is perhaps more
accurately described as needlepoint. His first
rug, a colorful assortment of Caucasian
motifs, was done by this method on canvas.
The Bukara, a rich geometrical design in red
and black, employs the traditional Turkish
knot, ‘‘a much slower process in that each

knot has to be tied separately.’’ Here also

canvas has been used to provide the warp
and the weft of the weave.

Emulating the fanciful patterns of some
of his favorite rugs, Cook has embroidered
two vests also. They are, however, garments
of such exotic intensity that they can be worn

 

One of two embroidered vests

only on festive occasions, and perhaps
preferably on camel-back.

His most frequent undertaking is the
miniature oriental rug. For this exacting
labor he uses a magnification lamp, which
enables him to work at over 500 stitches per
square inch. ‘‘The work itself is rather
mechanical. But laying out the design of the
piece is fun. Here’s one I made for my wife,
Flossie,’’ he says, holding up a delicate
tapestry embroidered with elongated,
vaguely mythical beasts. ‘‘She likes
animals.’’

On the subject of needlepoint and its
appeal to the masculine psychology, Cook
speaks of Roosevelt Grier, the former
Los Angeles Ram defensive lineman,
who preferred spending his leisure hours
quietly with needle and yarn. For him,
needlepoint was a haven from disorder,
contention, and violence. For the teacher, it
is, if not quite that, labor with a tangible
finished product.

On the subject of oriental rugs, Cook
says simply, “‘Each one is different, and
each time I look closely at one of them I see
something different.’’

On the subject of the relation between
rug-making and his profession, Cook shrugs
and allows, “‘Well, there may be
something,’’ then smiles and changes the
subject. The accountant whose fabric is the
complex weave of data upon data, all of it
unraveling ultimately into uncertainty, must
need substantial things. ‘‘I suppose so,”’
Cook replies. Then he repeats himself, ‘‘It’s
also a good thing to do while watching TV.”’

 

9

 

by Russell Stall, ’82
and Curtis Turpan, ’82

&L’s
Junior-
Junior
Advertising
Execs

10

We had little idea just what we were
getting into when we signed up for Professor
Larry Lamont’s seminar in advertising. The
original course description outlined the usual
series of lectures, tests, and a term project.
The term projects for previous seminar
groups had consisted of marketing studies for
companies such as Johnson’s Wax, Yonex
tennis rackets, and Stuart McGuire shoes.

We soon discovered, however, that our
course would involve a much more complex
project, an entire advertising campaign for a
major company.

With the aid and advice of Brand,
Edmonds, Packett Advertising Agency in
Salem, Va., and Life of Virginia, a life
insurance company headquartered in
Richmond, the five of us enrolled in
Professor Lamont’s course were given the
opportunity to learn about advertising in a
way very few college students can—that is,
first-hand, by actually doing it. We formed a
mini-advertising agency to devise a second-
year advertising campaign for ‘‘The
Challenger,’’ the new universal life insurance

THE DAW AING OF
& SEW ALE

The junior-junior execs: from left, Russell Stall, Kevin Honey, Kelly Niernberger, Eric Kolts, Curtis Turpan, and Dr. Lawrence Lamont.

policy from Life of Virginia. Knowing very
little about advertising principles, and even
less about life insurance, we faced a
bewildering task.

The first step was to become life
insurance experts in a mere two weeks. We
had to gain a working knowledge of the
technical aspects of various types of life
insurance policies, the advantages and
disadvantages of universal life insurance, and
the tax implications of the different policies.
Beyond this, we needed also to consider
future market environments (economic,
demographic, and social), how consumers
purchase life insurance, and the advertising
and marketing of the competing companies.
Because of our need for information from
trade associations, life insurance companies,
and various media during our research, there
were times when it seemed that we had
become a branch of the United States Postal
Service.

We discovered that universal life was
designed to put life insurance back in the
savings business. Offering a tax-deferred rate

 

of return on accumulated cash value at rates
indexed to U.S. Government long term
bonds, the policies currently offer a greater
rate of return than conventional life
insurance. However, we also learned that our
product had certain features that would make
the development of an advertising campaign
a Challenging task. The minimum coverage
of the policyholder is $100,000 and the
premiums are fairly expensive; thus we
determined that the usual buyer would be
financially sophisticated, well-educated,
middle-aged, and probably married. We
knew that the buyer would expend a great
deal of time and energy in order to find the
life insurance policy that would give the
most for the money. When coupled with the
fact that many individuals are wary of life
insurance companies and their advertising,
our task was much more difficult than if we
had been advertising potato chips or tennis
rackets.

Working from three campaign objectives
and a budget of $2 - 2.5 million, we began to
develop the creative part of the project.
Originally, we thought that ideas for
advertisements would come to us without too
much difficulty, but we soon learned how
complex the creative process really is. Many
nights were spent conceptualizing ads,
visualizing all ideas, regardless of how
bizarre or off-the-wall they first seemed.
Indeed, some of our best advertisements
began with an idea said half in jest. After
gathering several pages of ideas, we began to
throw out the more eccentric ones until we
had a group that seemed most workable.
Using this group of ideas as a foundation, we
drew up a few rough advertisements.
Luckily, one of us had some artistic ability
or else our ads would have appeared even
more amateurish than they actually were.

The main thrust of our campaign
emphasized the flexibility and investment
value of the policy. It employed two
different advertising strategies. One
approach, aimed at the family man, used
largely emotional appeals; the other, with a
stronger financial argument, was directed
more toward the businessman concerned with
maximizing his financial resources. We
thought that we would gain a greater
penetration of the market by using these two
strategies simultaneously in our campaign.

 

With the rough ads in hand, each of us
ventured to his respective hometown to see if
potential customers felt as confident about
the advertisements as we did. We soon
discovered that some of the ads were not as
convincing and inspiring as we had hoped.
They needed more work. Thus, back to the
drawing board we went.

After revising the ads, we once again,
with newly found humility, sallied forth into
the marketplace, this time to a meeting of the
Lexington Rotary Club. Although one of our
ads, according to one Rotarian, looked like
an advertisement for “‘birth control,’’ we
seemed to fare slightly better than before.
Several pertinent suggestions for
improvement were made and were
incorporated into the final copies of the
advertisements.

After devising two television
commercials that were related to two of our
print ads, we felt as though we were over the
hump, with the major portion of our
campaign preparation complete. We soon
discovered, however, that we still had a
massive amount of work yet to do.

The time had come to turn back to the
more technical aspects of our campaign
development. Now that we had our ads, we
needed the most effective places for them.
Should they appear in Playboy, Scientific
American, or Ranger Rick’s Nature
Magazine? Our goal when selecting the
media was to maximize readership by
potential buyers for the lowest cost. Because
we lacked the elaborate computer programs

used by many advertising agencies, the only

means we had of selecting the best media
was to pore through the information provided
by the data services and the numerous
magazine media kits. We were surprised to
discover the extent to which various
publications research their readers. For
example, did you know that 6% of all
Fortune readers own 40-foot sailboats?

After selecting the six best publications
that conformed to our budget restrictions, we
scheduled where and when each
advertisement would run. Similar
determinations were made in placing our
television commercials. Remaining within
our budget was not always easy—our initial
print media placement costs were $250,000
over budget.

After devising a method for testing the
future effectiveness of our advertising, our
projected $2.2 million budget was complete.
Our initial work was over.

Our next step was to develop a written
report on the project. After several rewrites,
we all experienced a great sense of
happiness, relief, and accomplishment when
we finally received from the printing center
copies of our 140-page report. All that
remained for us was to present our ideas to
the advertising agency.

The presentation to the agency was
relatively simple compared to the complexity
of the project itself. We were fairly confident
about our knowledge of the subject, but were
slightly unsure as to how some of our ideas
would be received by the agency. Our
doubts, however, were unfounded, for the
agency was greatly impressed by the extreme
detail as well as the quality of our work.

We can all say in retrospect that,
although the frequent all-nighters, 14-hour
days, and constant rewrites of the project
were occasionally depressing, the final
completion of the project gave us all great
pride in our accomplishments. The project
was well worth the extra work, time, and
heartaches. We were after all working for
more than simply a grade—the motivation
and the satisfaction drew entirely from the
job itself, a job well done.

Most college and university courses in
business and related fields focus entirely on
textbook knowledge backed up by case
studies and supplemental projects. Because
of Washington and Lee’s outstanding
reputation and the fine working relationship
it has established with the business
community, we were given a special
opportunity to go beyond the clinical
methodology of the classroom and out into
the arena of true business. There we
experienced many of the problems that
individual students have in working in a
project group as well as the pressures of
deadlines, the budget constraints, and the
successes and failures associated with the
field of advertising. Having been through all
the rigors of the advertising process, we have
found a new appreciation for the art and
science of advertising. The five of us have
Professor Lamont and Washington and Lee
to thank for this rare educational opportunity.

1]

by Robert Fure

Arch Sproul

Virginia International Company Has Struck It Rich Again and Again and Again

STAUNTON, VA.

An oil company in Virginia? For Arch
Sproul (B.S. Commerce ’37) Staunton, Va.,
is about as good a place as any—perhaps
even a little better than most. It’s Home.

‘*People always ask me that question. I
tell them, well, as long as I have a telex and
telephone, I’m in business. I spend half my
time overseas anyway.”’

Sproul’s ‘‘oil company”’ is Virginia
International Co. (VICO). With recent
annual profits well in excess of $50 million,
it is one of Virginia’s most successful
business ventures. No, there aren’t any oil
wells in Staunton. You have to go halfway
around the world, all the way to Indonesia,
to find VICO’s interests.

Flying along the eastern coast of
Kalimantan (Borneo), just below the equator,
you may notice through the fat tropical
clouds a few bare spots in the vast green
carpet below you. The jungle yields the flash
of a few tin roofs, a maze of pipelines and
oil storage tanks, and at the muddy center of
each clearing the wellhead itself glinting
obscurely in the sunlight.

The places have names that conjure in the
mind a curious blend of Western technology
and East Indies exotica: North Semberah
Field, Sanga Sanga Field, and O.K. Mumus.
Dotted with over 30 drilling sites, Badak
Field is named after the one-horned Asian
rhinoceros, whose horn according to legend
is associated with fertility.

North of Badak, at Bontang Bay, the
green carpet seems to have been lifted back
away from the waters of the Makassar Strait.
There on a broad stretch of raw earth
dominated by four immense storage tanks, a
complex liquefaction plant—for the
production of liquefied natural gas—reaches
out to a huge tanker waiting, bubble-bellied,
just off shore.

You have flown over VICO’s East
Kalimantan Contract Area. Underneath the
steaming jungle are deposits of oil currently
measured at 151.2 million barrels, with
trapped reserves of natural gas totaling 7.7
trillion cubic feet, one of the world’s largest
deposits. Somehow it all shows up in
Staunton, Va., on Arch Sproul’s telex.

But you have to go back, way back, to
find out how Arch Sproul made the

12

connection, and how, with some luck on
both sides, he was able to bring a little bit of
Virginia to Borneo.

Although a remarkably successful
businessman, Sproul has at the same time
enjoyed a long career in the military. A
retired two-star general, he served for 28
years with the Virginia-Maryland National
Guard. Commissioned in 1941, he led a
platoon onto Omaha Beach at Normandy. In
the rain of machine gun fire, he lost half his
men; his own life was saved by a shaving
kit—a ricocheting bullet banged dead against
a pack of razor blades. After 36 months in
Europe, where he was wounded three times,
he was awarded the Distinguished Service
Cross. He commanded the 116th Infantry
Regiment, famous at Omaha. At the close of
his career, he was major general of the 29th
Infantry Division.

Settling with his British wife, Margaret,
back home in Staunton after the war, Sproul
retained a nagging sense that the real action
was across the water. He dabbled in a few
local ventures, but his skills in organization
and leadership brought him into contact with
increasingly broader acquaintance. In 1961,
the Columbia Gas Co. asked him to serve on
its board of directors. Meeting regularly in
New York, Sproul came to know big oil and
the complexities of international finance.

In 1965, shortly after the overthrow of
Sukarno in Indonesia, Sproul met in New
York a representative of the new Soeharto
government. Indonesia—vastly rich in
natural resources: tin, nickel, sulphur,
bauxite, copper, gold, silver, iron, coal,
timber, and enough oil to have given Royal
Dutch Shell its start back in the 1890’s; an
archipelago of 13,500 islands stretching
across 3,300 miles of ocean; 120,000,000
people, the fifth most populous nation in the
world, hammered daily by the equatorial sun;

a country now stabilizing under Soeharto, the

communists gone, its runaway inflation
easing; a government stepping somewhat
self-consciously back into a world of
capitalist economies . . . . General Sproul
began to think about nickel.

On his return to Staunton, Sproul asked a
couple of associates from Buena Vista, Earl
Starkey and Lewis Dickinson, to chip in a
thousand dollars each toward the formation
of Virginia International Co. With the

money, Sproul bought an airline ticket:
destination Djakarta, Indonesia.

Although his main curiosity concerned
Indonesian mineral deposits, Sproul spent
most of his time with Indonesia’s new oil
minister, General Ibnu Sutowo. Old World
War II generals with two whole theaters of
international conflict to recount, the two men
became fast friends.

**General Sutowo struck me as a very
able man, very well educated. I had daily
access to him, while the presidents of major
oil companies had to stand in line for days in
the waiting room of his office. They used to
ask me, “Hey, how do you get to see
Ibnu?’ ’’ Sproul chuckles, then pauses to
light his pipe.

‘*So I got to thinking about oil, and we
were getting to trust each other pretty well,
you know. So one day I put my fist down on
the table and said, ‘Now look here, you and I
are generals, by golly, let’s agree to agree!’
Well, he sort of sat back and gave me a once
over, got out a map and said, ‘O.K., you can
have everything below the equator that hasn’t
been spoken for.’ ”’

The agreement gave General Sproul’s
VICO exclusive oil and gas exploration
rights to tracts of land totaling 4% million
acres in Sumatra and Kalimantan, the largest
concession that the Indonesian government
had given out. VICO promised in turn to
develop the resources at an increasingly
productive rate. The deal was a coup for
VICO, even though the little company had
landed in the middle of a jungle on the other
side of the planet. Still, VICO had to deliver
the goods. Oil and gas exploration requires
time and tremendous technological and
financial resources. Sproul, a much
decorated general who was at heart “‘just a
farmer from Virginia,’’ had little more than a
telephone.

So Arch Sproul flew back to the States
and set up a partnership with independent
Texas oilman Roy Huffington. In May of
1969, they entered into a joint venture
agreement with Allied Chemical, Ultramar,
and Austral Oil. Later in the year, VICO
went public at $5 a share.

Sproul pauses again, takes a long,
meditative draw on his pipe and says,
‘“We’re now at $60.”’

In the early years of the company, during

ns lle

 

In a long conversation, Arch Sproul eventually touches on hunting and fishing and his 600 head of

cattle. Then Indonesian oil seems half a world away.

ongoing oil and gas exploration, Sproul set
up a Heveacrumb rubber plantation in
Western Sumatra and a 75,000-acre livestock
operation on the island of Timor, the farmer
from Virginia in “‘one of the most remote
regions of the world.’’ Despite the initial
success of these ventures, the rubber and
cattle operations were subject to capricious
market and labor conditions, so VICO began
to hope a little harder for oil. Then, in
February of 1972, after months of cautious
probing, Badak No. | came in at 2,561
barrels per day.

Then No. 2 and No. 3, etc. Not long
after, of course, the Middle East sent the
market price of crude soaring. By 1976,
VICO’s joint venture had 47 oil and/or gas
wells in production in Kalimantan and
Sumatra. ‘‘We had found one of the largest
deposits of natural gas in the world.’’ The
rubber and livestock operations were sold.

Everything now was going into the ground.

Increasingly aggressive oil and gas
exploration required new, huge investments
of capital for expanded operations. Adequate
transportation facilities needed to be built.
Fortunately for Sproul, through his long
association with Columbia Gas, he knew
something about gas liquefaction technology.
VICO began to help plan a $900-million
liquefaction plant and negotiate a deal wth
energy hungry Japan for the importation of
vast quantities of LNG.

Realizing that VICO’s joint venture was
now entering into operations too pressing and
complex for its resources, Sproul moved his
company toward Alaska Interstate Co., an
early investor. On July 28, 1977, Alaska
Interstate acquired 100% ownership of
VICO’s common stock. VICO became a
subsidiary. ““Things were getting just too
big. I would have had to move to Houston.”’

Profile of an Alumnus

Under its enlightened adoptive parent,

VICO’s profits have grown considerably in

recent years. In 1980, the company recorded
a 278% increase in profits over 1979; total
operating budget in 1982 will top $450
million. Planned expansion of the Bontag
Bay liquefaction plant will soon double
exports of LNG in Japan. And, of course, it
all began with $3,000 and a lark-happy jaunt
to Djakarta.

Today, Arch Sproul sits at his desk in a
small, cozy office within an office within an
office in a quiet, unassuming building in
Staunton. At 66, he remains VICO’s
Chairman of the Board. Beside the
telephone, a golden Badak rhinocerous
stands stooped as if bowed by the weight of
its magical horn. On the far side of the office
a small tiger skin spreads its limbs across the
floor, its face frozen in unconvincing
ferocity.

Sproul reflects on it all: ‘‘Naturally,
everybody said I was a damn fool and didn’t
know what I was doing. Well, maybe so.”’
The tiger and he suddenly seem to be sharing
a private joke.

Arch and Margaret Sproul have raised
three children: Sarah Jane, Margaret, and
Arch Jr. The two daughters are with banks in
New York, while Arch Jr. is in the import
business in Santa Fe. The home in Staunton,
‘‘one of the oldest in town,”’’ sits politely in
the town’s most dignified neighborhood.
Actually, the Sprouls seem to prefer life in
the country along the river where, for
reasons held in reserve by Margaret, they
have two homes in close proximity, “‘the
winter palace and the summer palace.”’

One might wonder how, in a world of
telephones and telexes, this bullet-dodging
general and Virginia farmer has found quite
sufficient satisfaction. He is a man of
unquestionable wealth and success;
nonetheless, one suspects that the
intangibility of international investment
provides at best a rather dry excitement.
Arch Sproul utters mind-boggling numbers in
smooth, even tones. However, in a long
conversation he will eventually touch on
hunting and fishing here and abroad, and, his
face brightening, a country backyard with
600 head of cattle. It is then that Indonesian
oil seems half a world away.

13

by Jeffery Hanna

Law Student-Teachers

Phi Alpha Delta Juvenile Justice Program Holds Court in Area Public Schools

The bailiff calls the court to order, and
Judge Jerry Coleman asks for the next case.

The state’s attorney addresses the court,
outlining what appears to be a textbook case
of alleged child abuse.

In his petition to the court, the county
juvenile officer has charged that the
environment of 7-year-old Robbie Lloyd and
his 2-year-old brother, Danny, is harmful to
their welfare. Further, the petition cites
specific charges against the boys’ mother and
asks the court to place the children in the
State’s custody.

The hearing proceeds routinely with the
state’s attorney calling the juvenile officer to
the witness stand and eliciting details of the
investigation.

Once the direct examination has ended,
the state’s attorney turns the witness over to
the defense.

A long, uncomfortable moment of silence
follows before the defense attorney finally
asks of no one in particular: ‘‘What am I
supposed to do now?’’

Under the circumstances, the question is
fair enough. And the answer, provided by a
second-year Washington and Lee law student
named Dave (Freedi) Friedfeld, is simple
enough.

*“Now,’’ Friedfeld tells the nervous
defense attorney, ‘‘you get a turn to ask
some questions. Use your imagination. ”’

And so it goes as the class of eighth-
graders at Parry McCluer Middle School in
Buena Vista receives a crash course in the
basics of juvenile law from Friedfeld and Lee
Moise, another second-year law student.

The participants in the mock child abuse
hearing—including Judge Coleman, who is
attired in a faded, blue football jersey rather
than the customary jurists’ garb—are
benefitting from a new program that has been
conducted in public schools throughout
Rockbridge County this winter.

Sponsored by the law school’s chapter of
Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity, the Juvenile
Justice Program is part of that fraternity’s
nationwide effort to educate youth in the role
of law in American society.

‘“We are trying to show these students
that the legal system is not exactly what they
see on Perry Mason and Adam-12 reruns,”’
says Friedfeld, who has coordinated the

14

 

David Friedfeld, left, and Lee Moise, at right with student, were joined in the project by Michael Bommerito,

 

Terry McKenney, Tom Savage, C. J. Robbins, Bill Powel, Cathy O’ Conner, Cathy Riddick, Leslie Goller,
John Person, Bob Moot, Kevin Nelson, and Pat Davison.

program at W&L.

‘"As much as anything, we clear up
misapprehensions that these youngsters have
about the law, the courts, the legal system.
For the most part, the students know there is
a Bill of Rights which guarantees them
certain things, but they don’t really
understand what those basic rights are. They
don’t know about the differences in treatment
between adult and juvenile offenders. They
don’t know about the way penalties are
determined.”’

Friedfeld heads a steering committee that
consists of Moise, second-year student
Michael Bommerito, W&L law professor
William Geimer, Lexington High School
principal Glenn Stark, and Judge Robert
Culpepper, judge of the juvenile and
domestic relations district court in
Rockbridge County.

The program was six months in the
planning stages before the first presentations
were made in early February.

Members of Phi Alpha Delta approached
officials at high schools and middle schools
in Rockbridge County and offered 12 different
topics from which the school officials could

choose. The topics range from criminal
justice, which requires five class periods to
present, to a two-period discussion of
correctional facilities.

‘‘Our response from the area schools was
superb,’’ Friedfeld said. ‘‘Each school we
contacted scheduled a presentation. When we
finish, we will have taught classes at Parry
McCluer Middle School, Parry McCluer
High School, Lexington High School,
Brownsburg Middle School, Natural Bridge
High School, and Rockbridge High School.’’

That response was a mixed blessing, of
course.

On the one hand, Friedfeld and his
cohorts (all told, 14 law students have
participated) were gratified that the schools
found their program valuable and took
advantage of the fraternity’s offer.

‘But I had little idea how much time this
would consume. It’s a job,’’ says Friedfeld.
‘“We’ve had to set up conferences with the
principals of the various schools and with
specific teachers in those schools, outline our
program, and then prepare each
presentation.’’

All the work has been done voluntarily.

Photos by Peter Cronin, ’84

young students, too. Asked to provide an
evaluation of the program, one student, Jeff
Shafer, wrote that ‘‘the men from
Washington and Lee did a great job teaching
us about the criminal justice system.’’
Another, Robert Hamilton, cited some rather
practical reasons why the sessions had been
worthwhile when he wrote that the program
‘‘might even keep us out of trouble one of
these days.’”’

Nor is the program a one-way street.

‘‘This entire experience has helped me a
thousand percent,’’ says Friedfeld. ‘‘From
everything I have heard, all the other
students have found it equally rewarding.

‘‘For one thing, this gives the law
students an opportunity to meet with teachers
and with other professionals on an equal,
intraprofessional level.

‘“You also have the opportunity to meet
with youngsters from backgrounds that are

Judge Jerry Coleman, center, listens to the testimony of social worker Jamie Wheeler, right, as court different from your own. I have gotten a real
reporter Ronnie Staton observes the proceedings at Parry McCluer Middle School. charge out of meeting with these youngsters,

 

tens seen | hearing the concerns they’ve expressed about
a variety of things.’’

Most of all, the law students’
participation has provided a different and
useful learning experience for them.

‘‘This gives us an opportunity to take the
knowledge we’ ve been getting at law school
and put it into something very practical,’’
says Friedfeld. “‘The participants in this
program have had to do a lot of individual
research into family and juvenile law and
into Virginia state laws. But once the
research was done, we have had to put the
information in a form that an eighth-grader
will be able to understand. That has not been
a simple task.

But it has been fun . . . and rewarding.’”’

 

 

 

 

 

A bell sounds in the hallway signalling
the end of the class period.

‘‘Before you leave, let me say one more
thing,’’ Freidfeld tells the eighth-graders.
‘What we have been doing here this

 

Friedfeld addresses the eighth-graders: ‘‘Use your imagination.’’

None of the participants is paid, and credit is _ classes at Parry McCluer were the first to morning is very much the way it would be if
not awarded for participation. benefit from the program. ‘‘Not only were something were to happen to you. We hope
Friedfeld and the others can, however, the W&L students well-prepared and it never does, of course. But the situation
take heart in the knowledge that their efforts informative, but I think they made these would be rather low key, more like sitting in
have not gone unappreciated. youngsters realize that the law is not some- the living room talking than the courtroom
‘‘T think our students really responded thing just out there somewhere, something scenes you see on television.
well to the instruction they received,’’ said mysterious and incomprehensible. ’’ ‘OK, court is adjourned. And class is
Betty Glenn, whose eighth-grade civics The program drew solid reviews from the dismissed.’’
15

Oa a a ke

by Jeffery Hanna

A Paddler’ s Paradise?

For World-Class Canoeist John Butler, Goshen Pass Isn’t Just Another Pretty Place

For years, Washington and Lee students
have treasured their hours spent basking in
the wonder that is Goshen Pass.

John Butler is no exception. He, too,
treasures those hours—more than most.

In fact, when he sat down four years ago
to decide where he would attend college,
Goshen Pass ranked high on Butler’s list of
reasons for choosing Washington and Lee. If
not the first item on Butler’s list, Goshen
was a very, very close second.

Butler’s keen interest in Goshen is more
than mere aesthetics, however. Sure, Goshen
is a spot of unparalleled beauty. And sure,
Goshen is the ideal place for a college
student (or anyone else) to get away from it
all: to swim in and ride innertubes down the
Maury River or to climb up on one of those
magnificent rocks that jut out from the water
and forget about such mundane matters as
the C on that last chemistry test.

Goshen provides those same pleasures for
Butler. But Goshen provides more. For
Butler, Goshen is at its very best when the
Maury has swollen to about five feet, when
the foamy, white water slams against those
magnificent boulders and plunges wildly
through the twists and turns.

That is when Goshen suits Butler’s
purposes. For that is when Butler can strap
himself into several yards of a space-age
material called Kevlar and hone the skills
which have made him one of America’s
(indeed, one of the world’s) best wild water
canoeists.

First, some pertient background: John
Butler is currently a senior at W&L, but he
will not graduate for another year—by
choice.

Born and raised in St. Paul, Minn.,
Butler can’t rightly recall precisely how old
he was when he took his first canoe ride.
‘‘T’ve been paddling,’’ he says, ‘‘ever since I
can remember. It’s very big up in Minnesota.
Everybody does it.’’

Few people anywhere do it as well as
Butler, though.

After graduating from the traditional,
open canoes to kayaks and finally to the C-
1, or one-man canoe, Butler decided to begin
racing about five summers ago.

‘‘It was 1977 when I began training in
earnest,’’ says Butler. ‘‘That’s when I began
traveling to races all over the country,

16

working to become the best.”’

And so he has.

Last July, Butler was a member of the
United States team that competed in the
biennial Wild Water World Championship on
the Tryweryn River in Wales. Despite some
harrowing moments when it appeared he
might not be allowed to compete at all,
Butler finished third behind two Frenchmen
in the men’s C-1 event. Later that same
week, he led a three-boat U.S. team to a
second place finish in the team competition.

For his efforts, Butler came away with
two medals, one silver and one bronze, plus
a 25-word sentence in the July 27 issue of
Sports Illustrated: ‘‘John Butler of Madison,
Wis., who had been disqualified for
allegedly practicing after the official closing
time and then had been reinstated, came in
third.’”’

The sentence was almost accurate.

‘‘T was wearing a shirt with ‘Madison,
Wis.’ on the front when the reporter talked to
me, so I suppose that’s how it got mixed
up,’’ says Butler.

What was accurate in the magazine’s
brief mention was Butler’s near-
disqualification.

“What happened was that the U.S. team
manager failed to notify all the team
members that the course would be closed to
practice runs at 10:30 the morning of the
race,’’ Butler explains. ‘‘I got caught out on
the course past the closing time, but it was
an honest mistake. And I was reinstated on a
technicality. I spent some very, very
uncomfortable moments waiting to hear
whether I would be allowed to race.’’

Based on his performance, you might
expect that Butler would have returned to the
W&L campus last fall as something of a
celebrity. Not so. In fact, not until the Ring-
tum Phi wrote a short profile of Butler in
February did most folks on the campus,
Butler’s teachers included, realize exactly
what he had accomplished.

‘SA lot of students were aware that I
paddle, but not many know exactly what I
do,’’ Butler says. ‘‘I’m ‘that guy who’s
supposed to be pretty good in white
water.’ ”’

W&L has never been known as a training
ground for world-class athletes of any sort,
let alone world class white water canoeists.

 

That brings us to the obvious question:
What brought Butler all the way from St.
Paul to Lexington in the first place? Goshen
is one answer. There are others.

‘“When I began looking for colleges, I
was just beginning to get into competition,”’
Butler explains. ‘‘I started by looking at
schools in the East because that’s where most
of the good paddlers are, especially in the
Washington, D.C., area. It’s also where
much of the good white water is—trivers such
as the Nantahalah in North Carolina and the
Chattooga in Georgia.

‘‘T wanted a college that was near some
water where I could practice daily. One of
the schools I was interested in was 30 miles
away from any water, so I immediately

ais

 

crossed it off my list.’’

What Butler found at Washington and
Lee, then, were just the right ingredients:
Goshen Pass, the Maury River, a strong
academic environment, and an ideal
academic calendar.

‘‘It works out perfectly for me. There is
flat water right near the campus at the
Maury. I can leave my apartment and be in
my boat 10 minutes later,’’ says Butler, who
customarily spends two hours every day
paddling on the Maury. ‘The bonus is that I
have good white water a half hour away at
Goshen. The drought we’ve had has limited
my use of Goshen since the water has to be
about four feet before I can go down it.
When the water is at that level or just a bit

 

higher, though, Goshen is a superb white
water course.”’

W&L’s calendar was an added bonus.
During his first three years at W&L, Butler
has taken full course loads during the two
12-week fall and winter semesters, then has
taken a leave of absence during the six-week
spring term.

‘‘During the spring term, I go to North
Carolina, where I work as a raft guide during
the summers, and begin my training,’’ says
Butler. ‘‘This way, it will take me five years
to get my degree, which is what most world-
class paddlers do. The difference is that I can
make up all the spring terms I’ve missed in
one year. It’s ideal for me.’’

The extra year of college is one of the

many sacrifices that a world-class athlete, no
matter what the sport, must make.

‘*I’m not certain many people really
understand how dedicated someone has to be
who is world class in anything,’’ Butler says.
‘“You see a football team out practicing three
hours a day and recognize the sacrifice those
players make. But that is not really a year-
round proposition. To be a world-class
athlete you must train with the same intensity
every day of every week of the year. And
you don’t have a coach telling you to do it.
You do it on your own.

‘*My sport doesn’t receive a great deal of
publicity, either. But I’m not bothered by
that. You truly have to love the sport. To an
extent, training has to be an end in itself, not
just a means to an end. I’m not saying that I
love to go out and lift weights every other
day. But I don’t hate it, either. It’s
something I don’t mind doing, and that
makes it a lot easier.”’

Butler’s normal training regimen requires
three hours a day—two hours paddling on
the Maury plus another hour either lifting
weights to build upper body strength or
running to build stamina.

Appearances to the contrary, Butler
insists that strapping oneself into a cocoon of
Kevlar (a Du Pont aramid fiber originally
developed for tires but used in canoes
because of its strength and light weight) and
using a wood paddle to weave through a
maze of boulders, ledges, and narrow chutes
is not actually all that dangerous.

‘*There are definitely times when your
heart begins pounding and the adrenalin is
going because the water is really high,”’
Butler says. ‘But it is not what you would
call dangerous. It’s more like taking a ride at
an amusement park.

‘*It can be dangerous for an
inexperienced paddler who does not know
how to read a river.”’

Read a river?

**Reading the river is the most important
part of racing,’’ says Butler. ‘“You have to
be able to look at a river and immediately see
the fastest way down. Each summer when I
am a raft guide, the most difficult part of the
job is teaching people to read rivers. To the
untrained eye, it all looks like a mass of
jumbled rocks and white foam. To an
experienced eye, it’s like an interstate

17

 

A Paddler’ s Paradise?

 

highway.

‘‘Tt’s more a matter of experience than
intuition. You have to go down a lot of
rivers before you’re able to read them. The
first few times, they all look alike. After a
time, you begin seeing how different they all
are.”’

Butler can remember only one genuinely
frightening experience when he was caught
in a ‘‘hydraulic’’ (a large wave with a steep
back side and occasionally an upstream
current) on the Ocoee River.

‘‘Somebody told me later that I was stuck
in the hydraulic for about 30 seconds, but it
seems a lot longer when you’re underwater,”’
Butler says. ‘‘I’ve only had that one bad
experience, but it was plenty.”’

In what little spare time he enjoys at
W&L between practicing and studying in his
major, psychology (‘‘Psychology has, among
other things, helped me understand why I’m
motivated at certain times and not at
others’’), Butler has created his own canoe
design. Sometime this spring a boat

18

 

Wearing the medals: silver and bronze.

 

Although Butler plans to try his hand at flatwater canoeing for the 1984 Olympics, he is most comfortable in white water.

manufacturer will deliver one of the boats
Butler designed by “‘sawing away at several
different boats’’ and he will begin receiving
a royalty for the Butler-model canoes.

Those royalties are just a drop in the
bucket compared to the price of competing
on the world-class level. ‘‘Just getting to and
from the world championships is an
expensive proposition,’’ says Butler, ‘‘and
I’m always in the market for sponsors.”’

Although Butler’s immediate goals are
this summer’s Europocup events scheduled
for several rivers throughout Europe, he has
begun to peek ahead to 1984, Los Angeles,
and the Olympic Games.

‘“The canoe event in the Olympics is on
flatwater, not white water, and I haven’t
paddled that competitively,’’ says Butler. ‘‘It
requires a different stroke, but I would like
to try to adapt to that style and see whether I
might be able to make it in the Olympics.

‘‘T have a long time to go until I reach
my peak as a paddler. I think my best years
are ahead.”’

 

 

L. K . Johnson

Johnson-Rosasco Scholarship

Washington and Lee has received a
$50,000 gift from William S. Rosasco III of
Milton, Fla., for the creation of an endowed
scholarship that will honor Lewis Kerr
Johnson, professor emeritus at W&L.

To be named the Johnson-Rosasco
Scholarship, the scholarship fund is the latest
in a long list of honors for Johnson, who
retired from active teaching in 1973 after 40
years on the W&L faculty.

Johnson, who served as head of the
commerce department at W&L from 1950
until 1968, already has one scholarship fund
named in his honor: The L. K. Johnson
Scholarship, which was created in 1974 by
many of Johnson’s friends and former
students and is awarded to a rising junior
majoring in business administration or in
business administration/accounting.

Moreover, Johnson was also honored in
1979 by the establishment of an endowed
professorship—the Robert G. Brown
Emeritus Professorship—which Johnson
currently holds on an emeritus basis. __

A native of Staunton, Va., Johnson
received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees
from the University of Virginia and earned
his Ph.D. from Ohio State University. He
taught economics for five years at Mercer
University before joining the W&L faculty in
1933.

Johnson is nationally known in the fields
of marketing and personnel. His publications
include a major text, Sales and Marketing
Management (1957). He researched and
wrote Marketing in Virginia, published in
1950 by the Advisory Council on the
Virginia Economy.

Rosasco is a 1951 graduate of W&L with
a B.S. in commerce. He is president of and
operates six corporations that specialize in
real estate and land development and are
headquartered in Milton, Fla.

Three New
Scholarships

Gifts Honor Johnson,
Turner and Fiery

Extremely active in civic affairs, Rosasco
is president of the Democratic County
Chairman’s Association State of Florida and
is a past recipient of the coveted Santa Rosa
County Chamber of Commerce Man of the
Year Award and the Thomas A. Leonard
Humanitarian Award from the Jaycees.

In 1981 he served as Good Will
Ambassador for the State of Florida to
Denmark and Queen Margrethe II during the
Annual 4th of July Festival at Rebild in
Aalborg. Rosasco is the author of Musings,
In God We Trust, which was published in
1981 by the University of West Florida
Alumni Association.

 

Charles W. Farner

—C. W. Turner Scholarship

William M. France of Lancaster, Ohio, a
1958 graduate of Washington and Lee, has
made a gift of $25,000 to the University to
establish an endowed scholarship fund in
honor of Charles W. Turner, professor of
history at W&L.

France is president of WHOK, Inc.,
which operates WLOH/WHOK, the radio
stations in Lancaster. He is a past vice
president of Society National Bank in
Cleveland.

Turner joined the faculty of Washington
and Lee in 1946. A native of Fredericks Hall
in Louisa County, Va., Turner received his
B.A. degree from the University of
Richmond. He earned his master’s degree

from the University of North Carolina and
his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota.

Turner has written extensively on
historical subjects, including more than 50
articles in the field of economic history and
dealing with railroads, agricultural,
immigrant, and western topics.

He is the author of several books which
include Chessie’s Road, Mississippi West,
My Dear Emma, The Prisoner of War Letters
of Lieutenant Thomas Dix Houston, and
Stories of Ole Lexington.

An active member of the Manly
Memorial Baptist Church, Turner has served
as librarian and researcher for the Rockbridge
Historical Society. He has served on the
Virginia Fulbright Committee and the
National Fulbright Selection Committee.

Turner holds membership in Phi Alpha
Theta and Omicron Delta Kappa.

 

Benjamin F .. Fiery (1950's photo) :

The Fiery Scholarship

An endowed scholarship fund has been
created at Washington and Lee in honor of
Benjamin F. Fiery of Cleveland, Ohio, a
1913 graduate of the University.

Gifts of approximately $50,000 have
already been given to the endowment fund
by a group of W&L alumni from the
Cleveland area, Fiery’s family and friends,
and the Cleveland law firm of Baker &
Hostetler with which Fiery was associated
until his retirement. Details of the
scholarship have not yet been finalized.

Fiery received his law degree from
Harvard University in 1916 and distinguished
himself in the practice of law in the
Cleveland area. At one time, Fiery was legal
consultant for the American Baseball
League. He also served as a director of
Buckeye Pipeline Company.

In 1976, Fiery received a Distinguished
Alumnus award from Washington and Lee.
A member of Omicron Delta Kappa,
Fiery belongs to the Cleveland, the Ohio,

and the American Bar Associations.

 

19

&e Gazette

 

 

ODK taps nineteen,
awards four honoraries

Nineteen undergraduates and law
students at Washington and Lee were
“‘tapped’’ in January into membership in
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary
leadership society that was founded at W&L
in 1914.

In addition, four men, including three
W&L alumni, were inducted as honorary
members of Omicron Delta Kappa.

The ceremonies were part of the
University’s annual Founders’ Day
convocation.

The honorary initiates were:

Preston C. Caruthers of Arlington, Va.,
president of the Caruthers Construction Co.
A graduate of George Washington
University, Caruthers is president of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges, a joint fund-raising organization
established by and for the benefit of 12
major, privately-supported colleges in
Virginia;

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, a 1946
graduate of Washington and Lee and head of
the University’s English department.
Coulling is a past president of Phi Beta
Kappa and a member of the Modern
Language Association, the National Council
of English Teachers, and the board of
Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington. He
is an elder in the Lexington Presbyterian
Church and author of Matthew Arnold and
his Critics. Coulling was one of the speakers
for the Founders’ Day convocation,
presenting ‘‘Remarks on a Liberal
Education’’ (printed elsewhere in this
magazine);

George M. Spaulding, president of
Spaulding Lumber Co. of Chase City, Va.,
and a 1934 graduate of Washington and Lee.
Spaulding, active in W&L alumni affairs, is
a director of Patrick Henry Boys’ Plantation
and of Central Fidelity Bank and Fidelity
American Bank and is an officer in
Commonwealth Club;

Charles C. Stieff II, executive vice
president of The Kirk-Stieff Co. of
Baltimore, Md., and a 1945 graduate of
Washington and Lee. Stieff is an officer in
Boys’ Latin School, The Florence Crittenden

20

 

 

 

Preston C. Caruthers

George M. Spaulding

Services, the Red Cross, the YMCA, Park
Civic League, the Baltimore Chamber of
Commerce, and Maryland Independent
Schools. He has also been extremely active
in W&L’s alumni activities.

The Washington and Lee students
inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa were:

SENIORS: Craig T. Albanese of
Melville, N.Y.; Kenneth A. Lang of Garden
City, N.Y.; John B. McKee III of
Clarksdale, Miss.; James K. Moles Jr. of
Roanoke, Va.; Robert D. Shaver of Quentin,
Pa.; Darren S. Trigonopols of Waldorf, Md.;
John A. Wells III of Columbia, S.C.;
William L. Wescott II of Baldwin, Md.;
James F. Williams of Danville, Va.; and,
Robert B. Witherington of Athens, Ga.

JUNIORS: James L. Baldwin of Dallas,
Tex.; Jackson R. Sharman III of Tuscaloosa,
Ala.; Todd C. Smith of Tallahassee, Fla.;

 
 

 

 

Sidney M. B. Coulling

 

Charles C. Stieff II

and, John C. Vlahoplus of Columbia, S.C.

LAW STUDENTS: Mark E. Cavanaugh
of Federal Way, Wash.; Christine C.
Chapman of Charlottesville, Va.; Douglas L.
Chumbley of Coral Gables, Fla.; Nathan H.
Smith of Hagerstown, Md.; and, Rand D.
Weinberg of Frederick, Md.

 

 

Ann Smith Academy
topic of display

A display of documents and photographs
tracing the history of the Ann Smith
Academy from its earliest stages to the
present will be on exhibit in the Boatwright
Room of the University Library through the
end of April.

Organized in 1807, the Ann Smith

a a  hCCC

Academy was the second oldest incorporated
girls’ school in Virginia. The original school
building was situated on the corner of Lee
and Nelson Streets in Lexington where the
Chi Psi fraternity house is located now. The
academy remained in operation almost
without interruption for 96 years.

Narrative for the library display was
prepared by Dr. William W. Pusey III,
emeritus dean and professor of German at
Washington and Lee. Pusey, who has written
several studies dealing with the history of
W&L, is the author of a paper on
‘‘Lexington’s Female Academy’’ to appear
in Virginia Calvalcade and is currently
conducting further research on the Ann
Smith Academy.

Documents in the display include the
original minute book for the Academy, a
copy of the act of incorporation in 1808, a
conduct book in which ‘‘disgrace marks”’
were recorded opposite the names of the
students, and a journal that records a list of
subscriptions to the academy, including a
$25 entry for one ‘‘Thom. Jefferson.

There are also photographs of the original
academy building as well as one photograph
of several students from the academy posed
around Stonewall Jackson’s grave.

The display includes a photograph of
ceremonies held last October when the local
branch of the Association for the
Preservation of Virginia Antiquities placed a
plaque on the current building
commemorating the academy and its history.

Richard W. Oram, reference and public
services librarian, arranged the display,
assisted by Sally Lanford and Priscilla Lewis
of the University Library staff.

 

 

Natural Bridge is subject
of duPont exhibition

Nearly 50 paintings and prints depicting
the Natural Bridge were on display in the
duPont Gallery during January. The
exhibition of 18th and 19th century works
was entitled “‘So Beautiful An Arch: Images
of the Natural Bridge, 1787-1890.”’

The show was the seventh in a series of
annual midwinter exhibitions organized by
W&L to focus on some aspect of local art
history. While past shows have been based
on painting, sculpture, drawing, and
photography from area collections, a
Rockbridge County landmark was chosen as
this year’s theme.

Paintings and prints in the exhibition
were selected from numerous collections all
over the country in an attempt to illustrate

 

the various ways in which the Natural Bridge
has been depicted.

According to Pamela H. Simpson,
associate professor of art at W&L and
organizer of the Natural Bridge show, two of
America’s great natural wonders consistently
inspired painters in the 18th and 19th
centuries. One was the Natural Bridge; the
other was Niagara Falls.

‘We tend today to think of the Natural
Bridge primarily in terms of a tourist
attraction,’’ observed Simpson. ‘‘We hope
that, through this exhibition, we can inspire
in people today a little of the feeling of how
truly wonderful the Natural Bridge is.”’

The earliest published renderings of the
Natural Bridge were done by Europeans
traveling in America and were made to
accompany travel accounts that were being
published in Europe.

‘‘The Natural Bridge provides a
wonderful example of painters’ attitudes
toward the ‘sublime,’ ’’ said Simpson. ‘‘To

those seeing it for the first time, the Natural

Bridge elicited the dual emotions of horror
and delight. It was seen as tremendous and
grand, but also awesome and frightening.

‘‘Thomas Jefferson called the Natural
Bridge ‘the most sublime of nature’s works’
and repeatedly urged painters to portray it.”’

Simpson suggested that by examining the
various ways in which artists treated this one
motif, it is possible to trace the development
of American landscape painting.

‘‘The earliest work is out of a
topographical tradition,’’ said Simpson. ‘‘It
was not until the 1830s and 1840s that
American landscape painting gained an
established market for anything other than
topographical renderings.

‘‘Eventually, you begin to see painters

 

Natural Bridge was the subject of a midwinter exhibit in duPont Gallery.

depicting the Natural Bridge for its
picturesque qualities. That is part of what
you see happening in American landscape
painting itself.”’

Later still, the bridge became more of a
curiosity than a mysterious natural wonder
that was capable of inspiring awe in
observers. That change is evident in the
treatment it received from artists.

‘It gradually evolves from an
embodiment of wild, awesome splendor to a
remarkable, but no longer incomprehensible,
scene,’’ said Simpson. “‘As an example of
that evolution, one of the late renderings
shows a picnic with the Natural Bridge in the
background.’’

The prints and paintings in the Natural
Bridge show also illustrated the dependence
that artists had upon one another.

‘It was not as if all the artists who
depicted the Natural Bridge had trooped
down, set up their easels, and painted the
scene,’’ explained Simpson. ‘‘The
progression in the paintings in our exhibition
indicated how artists borrowed from each
other.”’

One of the major pieces in the exhibition
was an oil painting by American Frederic
Edwin Church from 1852, on loan from the
University of Virginia Art Museum.

Other paintings and prints in the
exhibition were on loan from the Reynolda
House in Winston-Salem, N.C., the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York,
the Abbey Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art
Center in Williamsburg, and Natural Bridge
Inc. A number of items came from private
collections, including those of Mr. and Mrs.
Royster Lyle Jr. of Lexington, Mr. and Mrs.
Lloyd Braford of Natural Bridge, and
Virginius C. Hall of Richmond.

21

He

In preparing the Natural Bridge
exhibition, Washington and Lee was aided
by a supporting grant from Natural Bridge
Inc.

Gazette

 

 

Two commanding Generals

Jennings Culley, sports editor of the
Richmond News-Leader, hit upon a little-
known fact in one of his recent columns
when he asked readers to name the Virginia
school that ‘‘has put two head coaches in the
National Football League.”’

The answer? Washington and Lee.

The coaches? Walt Michaels of the New
York Jets and Frank Kush, named in
December as coach of the Baltimore Colts.

Wrote Culley: “‘Kush was a temporary
General. He was a member of W&L’s best
football recruiting class ever—1948. But
after a year of freshman ball, Kush and
Vince Pisano transferred to Michigan State
and later led the Spartans to two unbeaten
seasons. On that W&L frosh squad were
Dave Waters, Talbert Trammell, Bob
Thomas and Gil Bocetti who joined with
some upperclassmen (including Michaels) to
lead the Generals to the Gator Bowl in
1950.”’

 

 

Reitz is named
scholar-in-residence

Curtis R. Reitz, professor of law at the
University of Pennsylvania, has been named
scholar-in-residence at the Frances Lewis Law
Center.

As scholar-in-residence, Reitz will spend
the spring semester at Washington and Lee,
where he will be examining various aspects
of law reform in the area of exchange
transactions—contracts, commercial law, and
consumer protection law. Reitz is also
teaching a seminar in exchange transactions.

A native of Reading, Pa., Reitz received
both his undergraduate and law degrees from
the University of Pennsylvania and has been
a member of the law-school faculty there for
the past 25 years.

Reitz said that because of the explosion
of consumer protection law since 1960,
scholarship has been unable to keep pace
with the changes in the law. This is one area
to which he plans to devote special attention.

‘‘The law is so much in flux that it is
hard to study,’’ Reitz said. ‘‘Although there
are courses being offered on this important
subject in many law schools, including both

22

here at Washington and Lee and at the
University of Pennsylvania, that is not the
standard in the legal education world in
general.

‘‘T hope that my study here will not only
produce some valuable material in this and
other areas to add to the available body of
scholarship. I also expect this work to have a
significant effect on my own teaching.”’

 

 

W&L art class
surveying buildings

A group of W&L students are being
given an unusual opportunity to study the
history of American architecture first-hand
this winter when they conduct a building-by-
building survey of Lexington’s historic
downtown area.

And in the long run, the city of
Lexington stands to benefit, too. Results of
the students’ survey will comprise a catalog
of historic buildings that the city can use
when questions arise about specific buildings
in the historic district.

According to Dr. Pamela H. Simpson,
associate professor of art at Washington and
Lee, students in Art 301, American
Architecture, will spend a portion of their
winter term on the project, which she expects
will take at least two years to complete.

‘‘Cataloguing the buildings in downtown
Lexington represents a splendid opportunity
for the students—an opportunity to get first-
hand experience in architectural research and
to work with real buildings,’’ says Simpson,
who is co-author of a book on the
architecture of historic Lexington.

‘It is extremely difficult to teach
architecture through slides and lectures.
Unlike paintings, architecture is not two-
dimensional. Architecture is space; it has to
be encountered.

‘*Lexington offers an unusual opportunity
for teaching American architecture because it
is possible to trace almost all the major styles
of American architecture in this one city. |
Thus the students will be learning about
American architecture in general but they
will be able to apply those lessons
specifically to local buildings.”’

Each of the 17 students in Simpson’s
class has been assigned an individual
building that the student must investigate in a
number of different ways.

‘*For each building, the students must
conduct a deed trace and a tax search to
determine successive ownership and the date
of construction. They will also be studying
the structure itself and will chronicle changes

that might have occurred over the years,”’
Simpson explains. |

‘*The students will also do interviews and
historical research to determine the social
significance of the structure and the people
who have been associated with it. And they
must evaluate each building in terms of its
importance as a site, its architectural
significance, and how it fits into the overall
cityscape of Lexington.’’

The resulting inventory will, adds
Simpson, fill a void that has existed since the
city of Lexington first adopted a 30-block
area of the downtown as an historic district.

‘*The one thing that has been lacking has
been an inventory of the area,’’ Simpson
says. ‘‘Without an inventory to indicate the
significance of individual buildings, the city
has not had anything on which to base its
judgments when a question of alteration or
demolition arises.’’

According to Simpson, the project will
require extensive forms and photographs.
The cost is being underwritten jointly by the
Historic Lexington Foundation and the city.

‘*The students are not paid, but they do
get experience,’’ says Simpson. “‘And the
experience is actually invaluable for them.”’

The work of Simpson’s American
architecture class is being complemented by
individual work being conducted by other
Washington and Lee students who are
examining various aspects of historic
Lexington as part of senior thesis projects in
art history.

‘“The inventory project will take at least
two years to complete,’’ Simpson adds.
‘*During the course of one semester, each
student will probably be able to catalogue
three or four of the buildings in the 30-block
area that will eventually be part of the total
inventory.”’

 

 

Contact speakers

—George Gallup Jr., president of The
Gallup Poll, told a W&L Contact audience in
January that the mood of the American
public is considerably brighter now than it
was a year ago. But, Gallup added, the mood
is slightly more pessimistic today than it was
last June.

‘*In the latest survey,’’ Gallup explained,
‘*27 percent of persons interviewed say they
are satisfied with the ‘way things are going
in the country,’ compared to 17 percent who
expressed this view at the beginning of 1981.

‘*While the level of satisfaction at the
present time is markedly higher . . . than at
the outset of 1981, a sizable majority (67

i | a sg

percent in the current survey) expressed
dissatisfaction with the way things are going
in the nation.”’

Noting that recent polls by the Gallup
organization show Americans’ growing
concern over the economy, Gallup said that
Americans are ‘‘basically confident about the
future’’ and added that one recent national
survey indicated three reasons for that
confidence:

‘‘First, we have survived difficult periods
in the past. Second, we have shown that we
have the capacity to change. And third, each
of us knows that there is a great deal we can
do to bring about change in our communities
and to better society as a whole.’’

Gallup, whose father began the polling
operation in 1934, said that the latest Gallup
Poll on President Reagan’s popularity
showed that the president’s approval rating
with the American public has fallen below 50
percent for the first time since Reagan took
office a year ago.

‘‘A key factor in the decline in approval
of the president’s overall performance in
office has been growing pessimism over his
economic program,’’ Gallup said.

‘Yet while the president’s overall job
performance rating has been on a slide, three
in four Americans continue to express
approval of President Reagan as a person—
this proportion has changed little over the
year.”’

_ Gallup said that President Reagan’s
popularity level during his first year of office
is ‘‘slightly below’’ the first-year averages of
Jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon and is
‘‘considerably lower’’ than the first-year
ratings given John Kennedy and Dwight
Eisenhower.

—Harvard law professor Arthur Miller,
another Contact speaker, told a W&L
audience in January that the “‘law is
increasingly lending credibility to the notion
of privacy’’ in individuals’ conflicts with the
media.

Miller is the host of a weekly segment on
ABC-TV’s ‘‘Good Morning America.’’ He is
also the host of a weekly half-hour program,
**Miller’s Court,’’ on the Public
Broadcasting System.

Explaining that there is a growing ‘‘sense
of consciousness about privacy,’’ Miller
pointed to the pervasiveness of information-
retrieval systems as a primary element in the
conflict between the rights of the media and
the right of privacy.

‘*There is no longer any place, literally
or figuratively, to hide,’’ said Miller. ‘“There
is virtually nothing we do in life today that is
not recorded. Every time we turn around we

 

F. Lee Bailey drew a standing-room-only crowd to
Lee Chapel.

are interrogated, surveyed, questioned, and
dossiered.”’

Some of the new laws concerning
privacy, said Miller, give individuals the
right to exclude the media.

The journalists’ reaction to those laws, he
added, is to “‘shriek like a hemophiliac stuck
with a pin. . . . The journalist is troubled,
since that is a denial of access the journalist
has always had to information.”’

Miller said journalists are overreacting
because ‘‘all that’s going on is a recognition
of the rights of privacy. . . . They
(journalists) ignore the fact that media
institutions are among the most powerful
organizations. The notion of the media David
sallying up to do battle with the privacy
Goliath is just bizarre.”’

Miller said that while most Americans are
‘““nice people . . . we have this insatiable
appetite for gossip. We revel in it. We lap it

up.”’

As an example, Miller pointed to the
media’s treatment of Jacqueline Kennedy
Onassis. 7

Some journalists would argue, said
Miller, that *‘ ‘newsworthy’ should be
equated with ‘interesting.’ I don’t believe
that. Jackie Onassis is interesting, but does
that mean journalist have the right to track
her every movement? For close to 20 years
now, she has been trying to recede into
anonymity, and we have been denying her
that right.”’

Attorney F. Lee Bailey told a standing-
room-only Contact audience in Lee Chapel in
February that the creation of a ‘‘cashless
society’’ would be an effective deterrent to
crime in the United States. He suggested that
a law be enacted that makes it illegal for
individuals to have more than $500 in cash in
their possession.

‘Criminals do not know what they would
do if cash were not present,’’ said Bailey,

who has gained national notoriety as the
defense attorney in such celebrated cases as
the Boston Strangler and Patty Hearst.

‘‘The criminal purpose is almost always
money, except in those cases which involve
a ‘crazy.’ What is the point in robbing a
bank if there is no cash in it?”’

Pointing specifically to smuggling, which
he called ‘‘the biggest source of crime in
America today,’’ Bailey said that ‘‘these
people (smugglers) cannot function without
green money.”’

Asked during a question-and-answer
session following his lecture whether the
creation of a “‘cashless society’’ would not
cost Americans certain of their freedoms,
Bailey said: ‘‘You are a society of records
and of checks and of documents.’’

He added that *‘you can’t pay a politician
with a credit card.’’

Bailey rejected the notion that crime can
be controlled through fear of punishment, no
matter how severe the punishment.

‘‘An eye for an eye does not work,”’’ he
said. *“You will not, no matter what you do,
deter these people. You will not control them
through fear . . . because it is beyond them
to comprehend that.”’

Arguing that ‘‘America is still a very
naive country,’’ Bailey said that ‘‘problem
number one in dealing with crime in America
is that criminals are very different kinds of .
people.”’

A failure to understand the criminal
mind, he added, has led directly to a
*“system of incarceration that does not
work.”’

Prisons, said Bailey, ‘‘are the worst
blight on society. We leave them the way
they are because they are unpleasant.’’

 

 

Library given collection

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Horrell of
Lexington have given an important collection
of 18th and 19th century English literature to
the Washington and Lee University Library.

The 178-volume collection includes a
series of early biographies of Jonathan Swift
and a valuable first edition of Swift’s
Gulliver's Travels.

‘*The Horrell Collection is particularly
significant because it does put together a
number of 18th century biographies of Swift
and works about his associates, including
Alexander Pope,’’ explained Richard W.
Oram, reference and public services librarian
for the University Library.

Horrell collected the books while he was
pursuing his B.A. and M.Litt. degrees at

2

Le Gazette

Cambridge University. His special field of
interest was Swift, whose poems he edited
for the Muses’ Library in 1958.

Mr. and Mrs. Horrell moved to
Lexington in 1976. They had previously
lived in Maryland where Horrell was
employed by Vitro Laboratories while Mrs.
Horrell taught English for eight years at the
University of Maryland.

‘*We elected to give the collection to the
University Library at Washington and Lee
because we felt that the volumes will help fill
a gap in the library’s collections,’’ said
Horrell.

 

 

Law students aid
income tax preparations

Twelve Washington and Lee University
law students have been getting an
opportunity to help low-income residents of
Rockbridge County while learning more
about federal tax laws in recent weeks.

The students are participating in VITA
(Volunteer Income Tax Assistance), a free
tax preparation program sponsored by the
Taxpayer Assistance Division of the Internal
Revenue Service. IRS provides materials,
training, and advice to volunteer tax form
preparers through VITA.

‘“This service is really needed by low-
income people. If a program like this weren’t
available, they would end up going to a
commercial tax preparer and getting
charged,’’ said Alan Munro, the second-year
law student who initiated the VITA program
here.

The service is being offered twice weekly
through mid-April. The volunteers, who
include several Lexington residents as well
as the law students, were trained by IRS
personnel to complete 1040 and 1040A
federal income tax forms.

 

 

Aircraft disasters
topic of colloquium

The question of which state’s laws should
be applied in cases involving aircraft
disasters was addressed in a two-day
colloquium at the Frances Lewis Law Center
in February.

Participants in the colloquium included
Willis Reese, professor of law at Columbia
University and author of the most widely
used volume on conflict of law issues;
Andreas Lowenfeld, an authority on aircraft
law and professor at the New York

24

President Huntley unveils a portrait of Rupert N. Latture during the Omicron Delta Kappa convocation.

 

Latture, second from left, was joined on the occasion by his daughter, Mrs. George Woolfenden of
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., center, and his son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. William Latture of
Greensboro, N.C. The portrait was a gift of Stuard A. Wurzburger, ’28, of Lexington and Manuel Weinberg,
"31, of Frederick, Md., and will hang in Evans Dining Hall.

University law school; Lee Kreindler, a New
York attorney who has represented plaintiffs
in aircraft disaster cases; and, George
Tompkins, a New York attorney who has
represented airlines in the cases.

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., director of the
Lewis Law Center, coordinated the event,
which involved a series of informal
roundtable discussions as well as a two-hour
session in which the participants were joined
by members of the Washington and Lee law
school faculty.

Reese presented a paper that served as the
basis for the discussions. In his paper, Reese
proposed that plaintiffs be allowed to select
which state’s laws they want to apply in
cases against airlines.

‘As it now stands, the court has the
choice of which state’s laws to apply, and
the law is very, very unclear on the subject,”’
explained Kirgis.

‘Generally, everyone agreed with Mr.
Reese that the plaintiff ought to have a
choice. But there was considerable
disagreement in the group over which
choices should be available.’’

‘Some of the options, explained Kirgis,
would be the laws of the home state of the
plaintiff, of the state where the aircraft was
manufactured, of the principle place of
business of the airline, of the state from
which the airplane departed, or of the state to
which the airplane was bound.

‘It is an extremely complicated
situation,’’ Kirgis added. ‘‘In the case of the
recent Air Florida tragedy, for instance,
which state’s laws should be applied in the

cases? The airplane departed from a Virginia
airport, but its crash site is apparently in the
District of Columbia. The airline is
headquartered in Florida. But you might also
consider the state in which the aircraft is
manufactured as well as the individual states
of the passengers.”’

Two of the participants in last week’s
colloquium are directly involved in the
litigation that has already begun over the Air
Florida disaster—Tompkins represents the
airline while Kreindler represents some of
the plaintiffs.

The colloquium is part of the Frances
Lewis Law Center’s series of colloquia on
current legal subjects.

 

 

In the arts

—Soprano Ann Berlin appeared in
concert in January as the third presentation of
the Concert Guild’s 1982 season. Mrs. |
Berlin, a lecturer in music at Hollins
College, was accompanied by pianist Cheryl
Ryan and guitarist Gene Carter.

—The Longwood College Concert Choir
joined Washington and Lee’s Glee Club and
Brass and Percussion Ensemble in a concert
in February in Lee Chapel.

—The W&L Glee Club made a joint
appearance with the Lexington High School
Choir in February in Lee Chapel.

—An exhibition of ““Twentieth Century
Photographs,’’ featuring the work of such
preeminent photographers as Henri Cartier-

 

Bresson and Ansel Adams was on display in
duPont Gallery during February. The
traveling exhibition was from the Virginia
Museum’s permanent collection. It was
organized for the Virginia Museum by
George Cruger, ’62.

—Pianist-conductor George Hadjinikos,
widely recognized as an authority on
contemporary music, presented a series of
lectures and a recital during a visit to the
campus in February. Hadjinikos, who spoke
to several classes while on the campus,
appeared under the auspices of the Glasgow
Endowment and the music division of the
department of fine arts.

—Rolf Bjorling, Sweden’s leading tenor
in Italian opera, presented a concert in
February as part of the Concert Guild season.

 

 

Superdance exceeds goal

When the music finally stopped in the
wee hours one Sunday morning in January,
Washington and Lee University’s fourth
annual Superdance had raised $23,882 for
the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

More than 130 dancers participated in the
30-hour dance marathon, which began at 8
p.m. on a Friday and continued until 2 a.m.
the following Sunday when the final total
was announced.

Dancers raised money for the event by
securing pledges from individuals and
businesses. Michael Wyatt, a Washington
and Lee sophomore, won the battle of
pledges with a total of $1,397. For his
efforts, Wyatt was rewarded with dinner-for-
two at the Greenbrier.

Though the dancing was the central
element of ‘‘Superdance ’82,’’ there were a
variety of auxiliary events, ranging from a
contest to find the hairiest legs to a frisbee
throw to a basketball toss. |

But once again the most popular—and
lucrative—of those auxiliary events were the
pie-throwing contests in which members of
the audience bid for the right to hit a member
of the W&L faculty in the face with a pie.

The record bid for a pie had been $115,
but three members of the W&L faculty
brought more than that this year. Journalism
professor Robert J. de Maria walked away
with top honors when slightly more than
$200 was bid for him. Politics professor John
Handelman was next at $185 followed by
W&L football coach Gary Fallon who went
for $150. ,

Fallon was also ruled the unofficial
winner of the ‘‘Quote of the Weekend”’
award. As the students, a majority of whom

were football players, began bidding for the
chance to throw the pie, Fallon remarked: ‘‘I
hope one of my senior quarterbacks gets it
because there’s a good chance the pie will be
intercepted before it reaches my face.”’

In fact, the pie did wind up in the hands
of a senior quarterback, Jim Wenke. And
Wenke’s toss—more of a handoff than a
pass, actually—found the mark. In this
instance, Fallon would have preferred the
interception.

Co-chairmen for the Superdance were
W&L senior Frank Brower III and junior
Townsend Oast Jr.

 

 

W&L debaters win
prestigious tournament

Washington and Lee debaters Bill
Thompson and Ken Nankin took first-place
honors in the junior varsity division of the
prestigious Marshall Wythe Debate
Tournament at the College of William and
Mary.

The Washington and Lee team advanced
through the preliminary round and two
elimination rounds before beating a team
representing George Mason University in the
final round.

The tournament included teams
representing colleges and universities from
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York,
and Virginia.

Nankin, a freshman from Columbia,
S.C., was awarded a trophy as the fourth-
place speaker in the tournament while
Thompson, a sophomore from Boca Raton,
Fla., was the fifth-place speaker.

The W&L debate team has accumulated
nine speaker and team trophies in tournament
competitions during the current academic
year.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., professor of law
and director of the Frances Lewis Law
Center, has been elected to the American
Law Institute. Headquartered in
Philadelphia, Pa., the American Law
Institute is composed of 1,800 lawyers,
judges, and law school professors who work
in the areas of law reform and improvement
in the administration of justice. Kirgis joined
the faculty at Washington and Lee in 1977.
Previously, he had been on the faculties of
the UCLA School of Law and the University
of Colorado School of Law. Kirgis joins

another member of the W&L law school
faculty, Thomas Shaffer, as a member of the
American Law Institute.

—David F. Fowler Jr., professor of
military science, has been promoted to the
rank of lieutenant colonel. At a ceremony in
February, President Robert E. R. Huntley
and Fowler’s wife, Patricia, pinned the silver
oak leaves of his new rank to Fowler’s
epaulets. Fowler was commissioned an
officer in Armor after more than two years of
enlisted service in Europe. He served two
tours of duty in Vietnam and an additional
tour of duty in Europe.

Included among the positions Fowler has
held are command of an Armored Cavalry
unit, command of a criminal investigation
district, service as instructor in armored
tactics, and advisory duty with Virginia
National Guard and Reserve units.

At Washington and Lee, Fowler instructs
both junior and senior students in leadership
and executive responsibilities within the
military. He will serve as the University’s
professor of military science through June
1984.

—Washington and Lee physics professor
Ronald Lane Reese presented two papers at
the joint annual meeting of the American
Association of Physics Teachers and the
American Physical Society, held recently in
San Francisco, Calif.

One paper, ““Twelfth Century Origins of
the Julian Period,’’ was co-authored by
Edwin D. Craun, associate professor of
English at W&L, and Charles Mason, a
W&L junior from Lexington. The paper
reported that a commonly used astronomical
dating scheme known as the Julian Period
has origins at least 400 years earlier than
previously thought to be the case.

Another paper, titled ‘‘A Novel
Approach to Three-force Equilibrium
Problems,’’ was co-authored by Reese and
H. Thomas Williams, associate professor of
physics at W&L. The paper presented a new
geometrical technique for solving certain
classes of problems in physics and
engineering statics.

—Halford R. Ryan, associate professor
of public speaking, has published an article
entitled ‘‘Harry S Truman: A Misdirected
Defense for MacArthur’s Dismissal’ in the
Presidential Studies Quarterly. Ryan, a
member of the W&L faculty since 1970,
conducted his primary research on the article
at the Harry S Truman Library in
Independence, Mo., on a Glenn Grant for
research from Washington and Lee.

25

 

de Gazette

Based on his research of the various
drafts of Truman’s speech and from
Secretary of State Dean Acheson’s
contributions to the speech, Ryan concluded
that Truman would have been more
persuasive in his speech if he had followed
his speech staff’s advice to stress the
Constitutional grounds on which Truman
fired the famous general in 1951.

According to Ryan, Truman chose to
follow Acheson’s advice to defend the
unpopular Korean war strategy and only
briefly mentioned MacArthur at the end of
the speech.

The Presidential Studies Quarterly is
published by The Center for the Study of the
Presidency, headquartered in New York
City.

—Dr. Pamela H. Simpson, associate
professor of art, is the author of an article,
‘“The Molded Brick Cornice in the Valley of
Virginia,’’ which was published in the recent
Bulletin of the Association for Preservation
Technology.

Simpson’s article is based on research
conducted on antebellum domestic structures
standing in Rockbridge County. The article
concludes that the molded brick cornice—a
type “‘more difficult and expensive to make
than other standard cornice forms’’—
represents ‘‘significant local preference’’
rather than provincialism.

Further, the article argues that ‘‘the
difficulty and expense’’ of making the
molded brick cornice represent ‘‘not only
decorative preference but a kind of symbol of
prosperity. These were not poor provincial
houses. They were the mansions of the area
and their cornices symbolized the wealth of
the owners who could afford the extra time,
expense and waste involved. ”’

Simpson joined the W&L faculty in
1973. She received her bachelor’s degree
from Gettysburg College, her master’s
degree from the University of Missouri, and
her Ph.D. from the University of Delaware.
She is co-author of a book, The Architecture
of Historic Lexington, with Royster Lyle and
is editor of the Southeastern College Art
Conference Review.

 

 

Japanese professor spends
year in research at W&L

For Hiro Okaichi, the best part of his
year in residence at Washington and Lee
came during examination time.

‘‘T have had no tests to grade. That’s
wonderful,’’ said Okaichi, a psychology

26

Yoko and Hiro Okaichi are shown with one of the white rats that were central figures in experiments

 

Okaichi conducted during a year of research with W&L psychology professor Leonard Jarrard.

professor at Doshisha University in Kyoto,
Japan, who spent a year conducting research
with W&L psychology professor Leonard
Jarrard.

It is rare that a visiting scholar chooses to
conduct research at W&L. But Okaichi found
Washington and Lee suited his purposes
perfectly.

In Japan I have been involved in research
on the hippocampus,”’ explained Okaichi,
referring to a small area of the brain which
Jarrard has been examining for several years.
‘‘T read several of the articles that Dr. Jarrard
published in journals and felt that working
with him would be ideal for me.’’

And?

‘‘T have enjoyed the opportunity very
much,’’ said Okaichi. ‘‘The facilities for
research are superb, and I have accomplished
a great deal.’’

The results of the research Okaichi and
Jarrard have conducted over the past year
will be published in a journal this summer.

Okaichi has not been the only member of
his family to benefit from the opportunities
presented by W&L. His wife, Yoko, used
the year in Lexington to pursue some
interests of her own—principally American
history. She audited several courses,
particularly those concerned with the Civil
War, and spent a good deal of her time in the
University Library.

In late December, the Okaichis were the
subjects of a feature story in the Roanoke
Times & World-News. The story dealt with
the New Year’s customs in Japan.

The freedom from grading papers was not
the only fringe benefit Okaichi received from
his year at W&L. By living in the faculty
apartments, he could walk to his office in

Tucker Hall in less than 15 minutes.

‘‘Back in Japan I take two buses and a
train to get from my home to my office each
day,’’ Okaichi said. ‘‘This has been quite
different.”’

 

 

Freshman survey shows
law top career choice

A survey of freshmen at the University
indicates that more than 30 percent of the
Class of 1985 plans a career in law. Asked to
indicate a “‘probable career occupation,”’
30.9 percent of the W&L freshmen
participating in the survey selected the
category ‘“‘lawyer (attorney) or judge.”’

In recent years, law has been the leading
career choice among W&L freshmen by a
significant margin. A year ago, for instance,
29.9 percent of the members of W&L’s
freshman class planned a career in law.

By comparison, 4.5 percent of all
freshman men taking part in the nationwide
survey indicated law as a probable career
while 11.1 percent of the freshman men at
private universities chose law as a probable
career.

The annual survey is part of the
Cooperative Institutional Research Program
conducted jointly by the American Council
on Education and UCLA. The survey is
based on a questionnaire completed by
freshmen at 368 institutions (73 two-year
colleges, 250 four-year colleges, and 45
universities) throughout the nation, including
Washington and Lee.

The second most popular career choice of
the W&L freshmen was ‘‘business

OO OO eee

 

 

executive,’’ which was the choice of 19.4
percent as compared with 11.2 percent of all
freshman men and 10.8 percent of freshman
men at private universities.

Third among career choices was
‘“physician,’’ selected as a probable career
by 14 percent of the W&L freshmen
compared with 4.0 percent of all freshman
men and 14.5 percent of freshman men at
private universities. That was followed, in
order, by ‘‘engineer’’ (7.1 percent) and
‘writer or journalist’ (4.9 percent). Of the
W&L freshmen surveyed, 6.6 percent
indicated that they were undecided about a
career.

Asked in the survey to indicate reasons
‘“noted as very important’’ in their decision
to attend college, 81.7 percent of the W&L
freshmen said they hoped to ‘‘gain a general
education’’ while 78 percent said their reason
was to “‘prepare for graduate school.”’

As for their choice of Washington and
Lee, in particular, 89.8 percent indicated that
W&L’s ‘‘good academic reputation’’ was
‘very important’’ in their decision to enroll
in the university. Nationally, 49.3 percent of
freshman men cited ‘‘good academic
reputation’’ as their reason for choosing their
college or university.

Asked to indicate ‘‘objectives considered
to be essential or very important,’’ 78.7
percent of the W&L freshmen chose ‘‘to be
an authority in my field’’ as an essential
objective.

In response to a series of questions about
current affairs, 95 percent of the W&L
freshmen said they agree (strongly or
somewhat) that all college graduates should
be able to demonstrate minimal competency
in written English and mathematics; 72.7
percent said inflation was the biggest
domestic problem; 67.6 percent felt high
school grading is too easy.

Geoffrey C. Butler, 66, Assistant Princi-
pal, The Louisville Collegiate School, Louis-
ville, Ky.

Jack C. Chapman, ’26, Headmaster (retir-
ed), The Isle of Wight Academy, Smithfield,
Va.

Richard S. Cooley, ’40, Department Head,
The Buckley School, New York City

Patrick Costello, ’68, Teacher, Coach,
Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

Louis E. Davis, 66, Department Head,
The North Shore Country Day School,
Winnetka, III.

David R. Dougherty, 68, Department
Head, Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

Thomas A. Eppley Jr., 60, Department
Head, The Lausanne School, Memphis, Tenn.

John H. Esperian, ’59, Headmaster, Lindon
Hall School, Lititz, Pa.

James D. Farrar, ’74, Teacher, Coach,
Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

John M. Hamm, ’58, Department Head,
Rippowam Cisqua School, Bedford, N.Y.

Cabell C. Heyward, ’58, Headmaster, Au-
gusta Preparatory School, Augusta, Ga.

James C. Hickey Jr., 62, Teacher, Coach,
The Collegiate School, Richmond, Va.

Bertrand R. Hudnall IT, ’59, Headmaster,
North Cross School, Roanoke, Va.

Friedrich G. Lackmann, ’54, Department
Head, Bellevue School, Seattle, Wash.

Norman Lemcke Jr., 51, Dean, The Peck
School, Morristown, N.J.

James W. Lewis, ’56, Headmaster, Holton
Arms School, Bethesda, Md.

 

 

W&L men with positions
in preparatory schools

Wesley E. Abrams, 54, Director of Ath-
letics, John F. Kennedy High School, Silver
Spring, Md.

Peter H. Alford, ’65, Director of Admini-
stration, Loomis Chaffee School, Windsor,
Conn.

Ralph N. Andrews, ’49, Teacher, Coach,
Deerfield-Windsor School, Albany, Ga.

Norwood E. Band, Ph.D., ’34, Headmas-
ter, The Bayside School, Northfield, N.J.

James H. Ballengee Jr., ’72, College
Counselor, The Tatnall School, Wilmington,
Del.

   

LU L _.
Twenty-four former Wa

hington and Lee basketball players returned to the campus in February for the

Charles H. Miller Jr., 58, Headmaster,
The Glenelg Country School, Glenelg, Md.

W. Hugh Moomaw, Ph.D., ’49, Headmas-
ter, Cape Henry Collegiate School, Virginia
Beach, Va.

Everett W. Newcomb Jr., 45, Headmaster,
The Wardlaw-Hartridge School, Plainfield,
N.J.

James E. Page, Principal, The American
Community School, Surrey, England

G. Wood Rutter, 65, Director of Admis-
sions, Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

Charles E. Savedge, °44, Department
Head, Augusta Military Academy, Fort De-
fiance, Va.

H. Gerald Shields, ’60, Guidance Director,
Missouri Military Academy, Mexico, Mo.

Charles R. Stribling (Colonel) Jr., Chair-
man of the Board, Missouri Military Academy,
Mexico, Mo.

Charles C. Watson, ’56, Headmaster, The
Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

James W. Wheater, ’43, Department Head,
Ramsey High School, Ramsey, N.J.

Robert E. Williams, ’62, Assistant Princi-
pal, Coach, Parry McCluer High School,
Buena Vista, Va.

Samuel C. Williams, ’44, Headmaster,
Upper School, St. Paul’s School, Brookland-
ville, Md.

Richard Working, 45, Teacher, Coach,
Boys Latin School, Baltimore, Md.

Corrections or additions should be called to
the attention of Rupert N. Latture, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Va. 24450.

  

second annual alumni game. Led by a former All-American, Pat Dennis, and Jeff Baum with 20 points
each, the Columbia Blue team had a 92-88 victory over the Navy Blue team, which was led by Dave
Leunig with 27 points. Kneeling, from left, Dave Leunig, ’79; R. J. Scaggs, ’81; Bob Forlenza, ’78; Pat
Dennis, ’78; Mike Wenke, ’79; Tom Cox, ’67; and, Norwood Morrison, ’70. Standing, from left, Rob
Smitherman, ’81; Mac Rein, ’81; Bob Flint, ’77: Mike Truta, ’70; Skip Lichtfuss, ’74; Don Berlin, ’77;
John Podgajny, ’76; Ardith Collins, ’79; Jim Berlin, ’79; John Glace, ’72; Greg Croghan, ’75; Pete
Farrell, ’80; Tracey Hodge, ’79; Tom Jeffries, ’80; Jeff Baum, ’76; and, Burr Datz, ’75.

27

Bh a

In The
Bag!

For the past four years, a group of
Washington and Lee students has been in the
habit of putting brown paper bags over their
heads and being as annoying as possible to
certain visitors to the campus.

If that behavior seems a bit strange,
consider this: the bag-heads’ carefully-
orchestrated discourtesies are roundly
applauded.

Disgraceful? No doubt about it.
Appalling? Yes, indeed.

But effective. Very, very effective.

The campus visitors in question happen
to be the basketball teams representing such
perennial rivals as Hampden-Sydney and
Roanoke College.

And the students under the paper bags do
their level best to help the Generals win
basketball games.

So far, it’s worked. The bag-heads, more
commonly called the Unknown Fans, have
shown up at nine W&L basketball games in
the last four years. The Generals have won
all nine. Coincidence? Maybe. But then
again...

‘The basketball team wins the games,
but I think the Unknown Fans get an
occasional assist,’’ says W&L senior Dick
Cerone, who has been a bag man ever since
he was a freshman.

Fans wearing bags over their heads to
athletic contests is old hat now. In New
Orleans and Baltimore, to name two
instances, patrons of the National Football
League franchises have taken to wearing
such attire in recent years. But the Aints in
New Orleans and the Dolts in Baltimore have
little in common with W&L’s Unknown
Fans.

In New Orleans and Baltimore, where the
teams were failing miserably, the bags were
worn for protection: no self-respecting
citizen of either city wanted his or her friends
and neighbors to recognize him or her at a
Saints or Colts game.

At W&L, the Unknown Fans serve a
different purpose.

‘“What we try to do is stir up the crowd a
little,’’ says Cerone.

That, they most definitely do.

The Unknown Fans spend the entire
evening taunting the opposing team, leading
cheers, building pyramids during timeouts,
putting hexes on opposing players during
foul shots, and generally making as much of

28

a nuisance of themselves as possible.

‘“We don’t always keep it in good taste,
either,’’ Cerone adds.

The Unknown Fans made their first
appearance at a game between the Generals
and Clinch Valley four years ago.

According to Cerone, the original
organizers were Scott Swope, ’79, and Keith
MacMillan, ’80.

‘‘In the beginning, it was a takeoff on the
unknown comic who used to appear on The
Gong Show which was popular back
then,’’ Cerone explains.

‘*The main reason for starting the
Unknown Fans was that we looked around
and saw that people were coming to the
basketball games and sitting on their hands.
We wanted to get the fans going. The way it
was, our home games were not any different
from road games. There wasn’t any real
homecourt advantage.’’

The Unknown Fans are unquestionably
an advantage—at least if they’re on your
side.

The fans’ uniforms become more ornate
with each appearance. Cerone, for instance,
has become known as the “‘Official Bag’’

 

since he wears a carefully-coordinated outfit:
black-and-white striped official’s shirt with a
matching black-and-white striped bag on his
head.

**Some guys really work hard at their
costumes,’’ Cerone explains. ‘‘We’re pretty
loosely organized. Anybody who shows up
with a bag gets to take part. We’ve had as
many as 25 for one game. That number is a
little unwieldy.’’

The Unknown Fans are rather selective.
They do not appear for just any old game—
only the crucial ones such as Hampden-
Sydney or Roanoke or an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament game.

‘We like to keep visiting teams guessing
as to whether we’ll show up,”’ said Cerone.
‘*But by now, teams like Roanoke and
Hampden-Sydney expect us.’’

Cerone thinks the Unknown Fans will
continue after he and seniors Jim Wenke and
Mark McLaughlin, three of the moving
forces in the group, have hung up their bags
for the last time.

‘*People might say that it’s obnoxious. I
guess maybe it is,’’ says Cerone. “‘But it is
fun.”’

a

 

 

Exceeding Expectations

Generals Post 21-7 Record, Share First Place in ODAC Regular Season Standings

In what had been rightfully billed a
transition year for Washington and Lee’s
basketball program, the Generals exceeded
all expectations by compiling a 21-7 record
and landing a share of first place in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference regular season
standings.

Unhappily, the season ended on a
disappointing note. Two disappointing notes,
actually.

First, the Generals lost to Roanoke
College, 72-54, in the title game of the sixth
annual ODAC Championship Tournament.
Then the NCAA did not invite the Generals
to the 32-team Division III tournament even
though W&L was ranked 17th among all
Division III teams in the nation at the time.

Those two events, disappointing though
they were, hardly spoiled what was a truly
remarkable season.

With only two seniors, co-captains

George Spears and Ken Jaffe, on the squad,
W&L head coach Verne Canfield relied
heavily on underclassmen.

After losing their first three games by a
total of only four points, the Generals caught
fire in December and early January, reeling
off seven consecutive victories.

The season’s high point came when
Roanoke’s Maroons paid a visit to Warner
Center in mid-January. Spurred on by the
largest and most vocal crowd of the season,
the Generals captured a thrilling, one-point
decision.

W&L finished its regular season with an
11-3 record in the ODAC, thereby tying
Roanoke for first place. The Generals were
seeded second behind Roanoke in the ODAC
Championship Tournament and scored
impressive victories over Eastern Mennonite
(92-60) and Hampden-Sydney (70-59) in the
first two rounds before falling to the

 

Maroons, ranked third nationally, in the title
game.

The season brought numerous postseason
awards to the Generals.

Canfield was named the ODAC’s Coach
of the Year for the second time in the
league’s six-year history. The 21-7 record
gave Canfield an overall mark of 293-167 for
his 18 seasons at W&L. That record includes
four 20-win seasons.

Junior forward Brian Hanson, W&L’s
second-leading scorer, was named to the
ODAC’s all-conference first team. A starter
in all 28 games, Hanson averaged 13.0
points and 7.2 rebounds a game.

Spears, who averaged 11.2 points and
had 82 assists, was named to the second
team while junior center Frank Eppes and
sophomore forward John Lee Graves were
honorable mention all-conference.

Graves led the Generals in scoring with

29

Winter Sports Roundup

an average of 13.4 points a game. He was
also named to the college division District III
Academic All-America team by the College
Sports Information Directors of America.

Eppes, a 6-10 center, made enormous
strides during the season and wound up
averaging 10.1 points and hitting on 54
percent of his shots from the field.

 

 

Fall sports teams
reap more awards

The honors and awards kept coming for
Washington and Lee’s ODAC champion
football team and the Generals’ Southern
League champion water polo team.

John McKee, a senior from Clarksdale,
Miss., was the recipient of prestigious
honors both from the National Football
Foundation and Hall of Fame (NFFHF) and
from the Sigma Alpha Epsilon National
Fraternity.

McKee received the NFFHF’s NCAA
Division III Scholar-Athlete award, one of
two small college honors bestowed by the
foundation. The award provides a $1,000
fellowship for post-graduate studies.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon placed McKee on
its 25-member Small College All-America
team, the second year in a row he received
that honor.

Junior running back Chris Cavalline was
selected the college division offensive player
of the year in Virginia by the Richmond
Touchdown Club.

Meantime, two W&L water polo
standouts, Erik Peterson and Rand McClain,
were selected to the Division III 1981 All-
America teams selected by the American
Water Polo Coaches’ Association.

 

 

W&L swimmers qualify
for national meet

Washington and Lee qualified four
individuals and three relays teams to compete
in the NCAA Division III Swimming and
Diving Championships, which were
scheduled for March 18, 19 and 20 at
W&L’s Cy Twombly Pool.

Senior Mike Bernot qualified for three
different events—the 50-, 100-, and 200-yard
freestyles; sophomore Tim Rock qualified for
the 500- and 1650-yard freestyles; sophomore
Rand McClain qualified for the 50-yard free-
style; and, junior Rob Crawford qualified
in the 100- and 200-yard breaststroke.

30

 

In addition, the Generals’ 400-yard
medley relay and 800-yard freestyle relay
teams were to compete in the national event,
which was expected to draw 700 participants
and coaches from throughout the nation.

 

Washington and Lee freshman Jeff Dixon compiled a | 7-6 record in the 177-pound weight class.

 

 

Wrestlers post 8-6 mark

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team
compiled an 8-6 dual match record this
winter, receiving strong performances
throughout the season from sophomores Tim
Valliere and Carlton Peebles and freshmen
Jeff Dixon and Joe O'Neill.

Wrestling in the 158-pound weight class,
Valliere had an individual season record of
15-6. That included a 1-1 mark in the NCAA
Division III East Regional Wrestling
Tournament at York College in York, Pa.
Valliere finished second in his class.

Dixon also earned a second-place finish
in the NCAA regional event with a 1-1
record in the 177-pound weight class. For the
year, Dixon had a 17-6 mark.

‘‘It was disappointing to come close and
miss out on putting a man in the national
tournament,’’ said W&L head coach Gary
Franke. ‘‘But the future is bright since Tim,
Jeff, and our other regional competitors will
be able to try again next season.’’

Peebles, the Generals’ heavyweight

entrant, had a 14-8 mark for the season while
O’Neill was 16-4 in the 190-pound class.

The other W&L wrestlers who competed
in the NCAA regionals were freshman Wes
Payne (134-pound division), freshman Bill
Wreaks (142-pound), and freshman Greg
Kendrick (167-pound).

 

 

Fellin sets vault mark

Junior Gene Fellin’s record pole vault of
14-0 was the highlight of the Washington
and Lee indoor track team’s participation in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships.

Fellin had set the school record with a
vault of 13-9 during the outdoor season last
May.

With his 14-0 effort, Fellin earned
second-place honors in the ODAC event.

As a team, W&L finished fourth in the
indoor championships with a total of 34
points.

In addition to Fellin’s pole vault
performance, W&L had two other second-
place finishes. The 440-yard relay team of
Chris Ives, Scott Henderson, Chris Busbee,
and Kevin Kadesky placed second while the
mile relay team of Busbee, Henderson, Mark
Pembroke, and Derrick Freeman also took
runner-up honors.

 

  

 

Chapter News

 

for prospective students from the area.

Ashcraft, and Herbert M. Woodward Jr., ’41.

SAN DIEGO. The chapter held a holiday
luncheon on Dec. 13 at the King’s Grill. A
large gathering of alumni heard an excellent
up-to-the-minute report on the University by
Frank L. Price, ’36, ’38L, who had attended
the Special Alumni Conference on campus in
October. Then on Jan. 23 the chapter
observed the birthday of General Lee. The
occasion was a cocktail party at the Seapoint
Clubhouse at which Max Elliott, ’60, and his
wife, Melissa; concocted a Chatham Artillery
Punch, using a Savannah cookbook. After

the party, alumni and their guests went to the.

Fish Market Restaurant in Del Mar for
dinner. The arrangements were made by John
Kliendinst, ’71, ’78L, chapter president,

who announced plans for an April meeting at
which the chapter expects to have Dr. Bruce
Herrick, professor of economics at W&L, as
the principal speaker.

DELAWARE. Nearly 50 area alumni
gathered on Dec. 21 at Buckley’s Tavern in
Centerville, Del., for the chapter’s first
annual holiday smoker. The event, an
informal cocktail party at the historic tavern,
was organized by Ben Sherman, ’75, chapter
president; John A. Parkins Jr., ’72L, vice
president; and S. Maynard Turk, ’52L, a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Alumni gather during the holidays at a reception

CHARLOTTE—Enjoying themselves are Hugh C. Ashcraft Jr., 41, Mrs.

 

 

 

CHARLOTTE—Trustee E. Waller Dudley, ’4

   

Ea

3, °47L, and President Huntley

talk with Gary L. Murphy, ’70, and W. Joe Dozier Jr., ’70.

 
 

CHARLOTTE—Among those at the annual winter meeting were Mr. and Mrs.

 

Lat Purser, ’73, and Mr. and Mrs. Alan W. Lee, ’69.

Other alumni in attendance were Jim Brown,
°73L; John A. Parkins Sr., ’39; Rogers
Pleasants, ’48L; George Fisher, 64, ’68L;
and Lat Snowdon, ’61. Current students
present included Chris Williams, ’85; Harry
Williams, ’83; Tom Kerr, ’85; and Bill
Foster, ’84. In August, the chapter had a
picnic that was attended by six of the new
students from the area as well as by many
current students and their fathers. Another
chapter event was a Feb. 5 dinner at the
DuPont Country Club at which alumni
observed the 250th birthday of George
Washington and the 175th birthday of Robert
E. Lee. The principal speaker was Gary
Fallon, W&L’s head football coach. This
event was organized by John A. Parkins Sr.
The chapter also planned a post-game
cocktail party for March 24 when the W&L
lacrosse team took on the University of
Delaware.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY. The chapter
held a holiday reception on Dec. 30 at the
Glen Country Club in honor of current W&L
students and a number of prospective
students and their parents. Charles Porzig,

 

35, who is the chairman in that area of the
W&L Alumni Admissions Program, made
the arrangements. Michael Perry, ’81, a
W&L admissions counselor, was present at
the meeting. Porzig hopes that an organized
alumni chapter can be maintained in the area.

CHARLOTTE. The chapter held its annual
winter meeting in honor of General Lee’s
birthday on Jan. 29 at the Myers Park
Country Club. Among the guests were
President and Mrs. Huntley; E. Waller
Dudley, ’43, ’47L, University trustee; and
James F. Gallivan, ’51, president of the
Alumni Board of Directors. After a cocktail-
buffet, the alumni and their guests heard a
report on the University from President
Huntley; Dudley, speaking for the trustees
and alumni, praised and thanked President
Huntley for the successful completion of the
decade-long Development Program. The
chapter was especially pleased to have
present Mrs. John Crist Jr., wife of the
former trustee. Also among the guests were
Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill Washburn.
The splendid arrangements were made by
Averill C. Harkey, ’74, chapter president,
and Billy Sturges, ’75, treasurer.

3]

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, °14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

32

1917

Co. CHARLES R. STRIBLING JR. was honored by the
Missouri Military Academy in Mexico, Mo., recently
when the school’s trustees named the administration
building Stribling Hall in his honor. Stribling is
chairman of the board. In the dedication ceremonies,
Robert M. White II, ’38, cited Col. Stribling as an
‘inspiring classroom teacher; acclaimed national,
state and local leader in civic affairs and education;
and successful businessman.’’ Added White: **But
his most treasured reward has always come from
molding boys into ever more highly-dedicated and
accomplished M.M.A. cadets, gentlemen, and
Americans.’’ A native of Virginia, Stribling began
his career at M.M.A. in 1920. In 1933 he became
superintendent and president and in 1968 he was
elevated to the position of chairman of the board. He
is a past president of the Association of Military
Colleges and Schools of the United States, the Miss-
ouri Chamber of Commerce, and the Independent
School Association of the Central States. In 1963, he
was one of 14 recipients of the American Educators
Medal by the Freedoms Foundation.

1921

WILLIAM A. GIBBONS Jr. works four days a week as a
right-of-way agent for the Utility Department of Roa-
noke County in Salem, Va.

1926

JOHN D. MAYHEW, formerly with the management
of Green Mount Cemetery in Baltimore, Md., is now
retired and doing volunteer work for the Baltimore
County Public Library at the library’s Cockeysville
branch.

WILLIAM BURKE WILLIAMSON, who practiced law in
Chicago for 40 years, is now in Asheville, N.C. He
has been admitted to the North Carolina bar.

1927

CHARLES (PAT) G. BURTON JR. retired in 1971 from
General Electric Co. of Lynn, Mass. after 30 years of
service. His last assignment was as supervisor of the
manufacture of electronic controls for steam turbines.
He and his wife live in Marblehead, Mass.

MATT JENNINGS is retired and lives in Nashville,
Tenn. He was employed by the Tennessee Depart-
ment of Agriculture for 32 years.

ZED C. LAYSON is retired and lives in Millersville,
Ky. He was formerly the district supervisor for Burley
Tobacco Inspection. —

JOHN B. Perry and his wife visited the Peoples
Republic of China last spring. They spent five days in
Hong Kong.

G. CARLTON WALTERS, formerly a resident of the
Florida Keys, is now living in Palm Beach County
and remarks that ‘‘the mainland provides many bene-
fits.’’ Walters boasts of his 15 grandchildren.

 

1928

JOHN G. KOEDEL, after 52 years in the practice of law
in Allegheny County (Pittsburgh) Pa., is retiring and
moving to Erie, Pa., where he has often cruised on
Lake Erie out of the Erie Yacht Club.

1929

WALTER N. PHARR is enjoying retirement after 52
years in the practice of law. In addition to his homes
in Germantown, Tenn., and St. Petersburg, Fla., he
has a cabin cruiser on Pickwick Lake in Tennessee
and a 26-foot, fly-bridge cruiser at St. Petersburg.

1930

JAMES O. PHELPS is president of Airpath Instrument
Co. and lives in Kirkwood, Mo. He has been with the
firm some 42 years.

1932

RUSSELL O. Morrow is retired and lives in Lake
Worth, Fla. Formerly a practicing attorney, Morrow
was a member of both the Florida House and Senate
and served 14 years as a circuit judge.

1933

GEORGE STOUT continues to operate a Certified Public
Accounting office in Pontiac, Mich.

WILLIAM A. WILLIAMSON has retired after 45 years
of employment with Durr-Fillanen Medical, Inc., of
Montgomery, Ala.

1934

RICHARD W. GRAFTON, a partner in Grafton-Sharpe,
insurance consultants in Fort Myers, Fla., still repre-
sents New York Life Insurance Co. with 47 years
service. Grafton is the recipient of many awards in his
career, including the Chartered Life Underwriter
(CLU) designation and the National Quality Awan

which he has won for 29 years.

1935

N. JOE RAHALL of Beckley, W.Va., is semi-retired.
He sold his interest in Rahall Communications, both
radio and television, and is now involved in land
development and housing. He also has some coal
properties.

1936

WALTER B. EAGER of Vero Beach, Fla., is retired
after 40 years with Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
For the past 25 years, he was District Manager in
Buffalo, N.Y.

RALPH H. SMITH retired in May 1981 as vice presi-
dent for government relations for Union Central Life
Insurance Co. of Cincinnati, Ohio. He now serves as
a consultant to several insurance companies.

 

A. W. riee .

 

1937

Dr. C. ARNOLD MATTHEWS, professor of finance
and associate dean of the College of Business Ad-
ministration, has been presented the Distinguished
Faculty Award by the University of Florida. He joined
the faculty at Florida in 1948. He has served as
Educational Director of the Florida School of Bank-
ing, which he founded, from 1966 to the present.

CHARLES M. WILLIAMS continues to teach at the
Harvard Business School. In February 1981 he was a
visiting professor at the University of Melbourne.
This spring, Williams expects to be assigned to Swit-
zerland for 10 weeks, where he will teach in Harvard’s
International Senior Managers Program.

FILLMORE G. WILSON is project manager for J. E.
Sirring Co., which is constructing a 600-ton-per-day
newsprint mill in Grenada, Miss.

1938

FRANK W. Comer retired on July 1, 1981, from the
Bibb Co., a textile manufacturer, after 43 years of
service. He lives in Macon, Ga.

Dr. PAUL H. DARSIE, an internist, has spent his
medical career as a physician in the Student Health
Services of Cornell University. He retired in 1980
and is now professor emeritus of clinical and preven-
tive medicine.

J. OLIVER GLUYAS retired in September 1981 from
City University of New York. He currently lives with
his wife, Mary, in Princeton, N.J.

PAUL M. MILLER, who retired after a long tenure
with the U.S. Foreign Service, is teaching English at
Soochow University, Taiwan.

E. SIDNEY VAUGHN JR. retired June 1, 1981, after 40
years with DuPont Co. The major portion of his
career was with the Remington Arms Co., a subsidiary
of DuPont, as a chemist and laboratory supervisor.
He currently resides in Little Rock, Ark.

1939
A. WARD ARCHER 8r., chairman of Ward Archer &
Associates, Inc., a Memphis, Tenn., advertising and
public relations agency, has received the Silver Quill
Award as ‘“Communicator of the Year.’’ The award
was given Archer for his ‘‘exceptional use of com-
munications techniques’’ by the Memphis Chapter of
the Public Relations Society of America. It was pre-
sented at a luncheon at the Racquet Club on Jan. 6,
1982. Archer is chief executive of one of Memphis’s

- largest agencies, which he founded almost 30 years

ago. In 1979 Archer founded Memphis’s first business
journal, Mid-South Business. As publisher of the bi-
weekly newspaper, Archer has helped give small
business greater recognition in the community. In
1980, Ward Archer & Associates took top honors at
the annual Pyramid Awards, sponsored by the Mem-
phis Advertising Federation to recognize excellence
in advertising.

WILLIAM B. BaaBEy retired December 31, 1981, as
vice president of Thomas Rutherford, Inc. of Roa-
noke, Va. He and his wife, Lelia, plan to travel in
Germany and Austria.

Dr. MARTIN C. CASSETT is retired from the private
practice of obstetrics and gynecology. He is founder
of the Cherry Hill Medical Center in Cherry Hill,
N.J. He is now employed part time as clinical associ-
ate professor at the College of Medicine and Dentistry
of New Jersey. He lives in Margate City, N.J.

J. DONALD EACKLES is a retired funeral director and
burial vault manufacturer. He spends most of the year
at Ormond Beach, Fla., but maintains a home in
Harpers Ferry, W.Va. He continues as a bank Pie
dent and is a director of two banks.

GEORGE C. KeErR retired in August 1980 after over 35
years with G.A.B. Business Service adjusting major
insurance losses throughout the world. He and his
wife, Florence, live in Lakehurst, N.J., and enjoy
golfing and traveling.

THOMAS A. WILLIAMS JR. retired December 31, 1981,
as judge of the General District Court, 13th Judicial
District of Virginia. He resides in Richmond.

RALPH H. SmiItH (See 1936.)

1940

Dr. G. WATSON JAMES continues as chairman of the
division of hemotology at the Medical College of
Virginia in Richmond.

PAUL C. THOMAS Jr. is back in Bluefield, W.Va.,
after undergoing heart surgery at Duke University
Hospital. He is administrative export manager with
John McCall Coal Co. and received a 35 year service
award from the company last July.

194]

CHARLES M. LANDRUM JR., an attorney in Lexington,
Ky., has been elected president of the Kentucky Bar
Association. He is also a Chosen Fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers.

RUFus H. SHUMATE, although retired, continues as a
member of the board of directors of the First Virginia
Bank, West. He resides in Pearisburg, Va.

ARTHUR C. SMITH Jr., formerly with American Sys-
tems Corp., is now in commercial real estate with
Alden, Inc., in Bethesda, Md. The president of the
firm is Francis Alden Murray, ’50.

1942

CHARLES B. CONNER retired in October 1981 from
the USAF HQ Air Force Systems Command with the
rank of lieutenant colonel after 37 years of govern-
ment service. He lives in Temple Hill, Md., and
enjoys traveling.

GREEN RIVES JR. is in his seventh year as president of

33

Re ee eS ee

Class Notes

Nabors Trailers, Inc., in Mansfield, La. He is cur-
rently serving as chairman of the board of the Truck
Trailer Manufacturers Association.

1943

DONALD J. CRAWFORD is director of management
planning and information for State Farm Insurance
Companies. His offices are in Frederick, Md.

LARRY GALLOWAY is Senior vice president of Terra
Chemicals Co. He and his wife, the former Jackie
Bernard, have seven children. The family lives in
Sioux City, Iowa.

JOSEPH E. LEE has been elected first vice president of
McLaughlin Gormley King Co., a manufacturer of
insecticides in Minneapolis, Minn.

DONALD L. RICHARDSON, a partner in the Detroit,
Mich., firm of William C. Roney & Co., member of
the New York Stock Exchange, has become Senior
Registered Options Principal of the firm.

MICHAEL M. SELZER is now owner and manager of
Sidney Office Supply, Inc., in Sidney, Neb.

1944

WILLIAM R. MALLOY, after four years employment
with Sea Pines Plantation, resigned Nov. 1, 1981. He
is now in charge of tennis court maintenance for the
Long Cove Club on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

ROBERT H. Moore Jr. formerly with Aquarium Sys-
tems, Inc., in Cleveland, Ohio, is now in Bluefield,
W.Va., as general partner in the Pocahontas Mining
Co.

GRANT E. MOuser III is with the American Consul
General in Hamburg, Germany, in charge of the
Foreign Service Post representing the U.S. Govern-
ment in the four states of North Germany.

WILLIAM M. STERRETT retired Dec. 1, 1981, from
his position with Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University as assistant vice president for ad-
ministration and director of the physical plant.

1945

JOSEPH P. MINGIOLI is senior television project officer
with the National Library of Medicine. He is busy
doing documentaries in the area of the history of
medicine. |

JOHN H. SorRELLS Jr. is director of Educational
Services/Newspaper for the Classroom, a project of
The Commercial Appeal in Memphis, Tenn.

1946

Dr. HAROLD T. MANKIN is aconsultant in cardiovas-
cular diseases at the Mayo Clinic. He lives in Roches-
ter, Minn.

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE observed his 25th anniver-

34

JH. Reese Jr.. 50 O. M. Mendell, ’50

sary with DuPont Co. in June 1981. He has worked
principally in employee relations. He was promoted
in April 1981 to his current assignment as assistant
director of the personnel relations division. He lives
in Wilmington, Del.

SHERMAN J. SMITH, formerly a sales representative
with Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, is now a
licensed mortician and working for the Miller Funeral
Homes, Inc., in Rochester, N.Y.

1948

NATE L. ADAMS II is now in the real estate investment
business in Vero Beach, Fla., after retiring from the
Marine Corps in 1972.

Dr. MARVIN L. DAVES, professor in the department
of radiology at the University of Colorado School of
Medicine in Denver, is the author of a book entitled
Cardiac Roentgenology: Shadows of the Heart, pub-
lished by Year Book Medical Publishers, Inc., of
Chicago and London. The book, addressed primarily
to students and radiology and cardiology residents
and fellows, concentrates on the chest film and an-
giocardiography. The book is dedicated to the author’s
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Daves, of Lexingon,
Va.

JOHN E. MILLER JR. is senior vice president and
general manager of Arkansas Cement Corp., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Arkla, Inc., a manufacturer of
Portland and masonary cement with main offices in
Little Rock, Ark. He and his wife, the former Phyllis
Thorpe, have three children.

1949

F. EUGENE Foster JR. is vice president-controller of
Union Envelope Co. based in Richmond, Va. He is
also a supervisory controller for Duplex Envelope
Co., a division of Hammermill Paper Co.

1950

GERALD A. BURCHELL JR., a former teacher in
Wolffboro, N.H., is now director of Cooperative
Education in Rochester, N.H.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, senior vice president of
Chemical Bank in New York City, has been elected
chairman of the Fifth Avenue Association. The 75-
year-old association is one of the most prestigious
civic groups in New York and comprises more than a
thousand members representing businesses located in
mid-town Manhattan. Mendell joined Chemical in
1958 and currently has responsibility for the business
development unit of Chemicals’ Metropolitan Divi-
sion. Mendell served from 1974 to 1980 as governor
of the board of Adelphi University’s School of Bank-
ing and Money Management. He is a director of the
Citizens Budget Commission of New York, treasurer
of the USO, and a member of the American National
Red Cross. Additionally, he is co-treasurer and a
director of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New
York, Inc., and a fellow of Brandeis University.

     

C. WILLIAM Pacy continues as president of Market
Center Development Corp. in Baltimore, Md. He is
responsible to the mayor and the city council for the
renaissance of the city’s downtown retail district.

JOSEPH H. REESE Jr., C.L.U., became president of
Provident Indemnity Life Insurance Co. on Jan. 1,
1982. He also becomes chief operating officer and a
member of the board of directors. Reese was formerly
president of Reese and Company, Inc., general agents
for Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Reese
is a life member of the Million Dollar Round Table
and past president of the Philadelphia CLU chapter.
He is a former vice chairman of the Philadelphia
chapter of the Young President’s Organization. In
addition he is currently on the board of the Holy
Redeemer Hospital in Meadowbrook, Pa. He and his
wife, Joan, have five children. The family lives in
Meadowbrook.

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE (See 1946.)

1951

Dr. THOMAS A. CouRTNAY is completing his first
year of a three-year term as chairman of the Kentucky
chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics. He
lives in Shelbyville, Ky.

WILLIAM H. KYLE JR. continues to operate his busi-
ness, Kyle International K.K., from Tokyo. The
business also has a branch, Kyle International Corp..,
in Washington, D.C., of which he is chairman. Kyle
is also director of Asia/Pacific, Division of Interna-
tional Programs sponsored by the American Univer-
sity.

BurRTON L. LITWIN is producer of a successful
Broadway play, Sophisticated Ladies. The first na-
tional company opened in Los Angeles in January
1982. Litwin and his wife, Dorothy, have three sons,
all in college. The family lives in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

1952

CHARLES B. CASTNER JR., who is with the corporate
communications department of the Family Lines
System headquartered with the L&N Railroad in
Louisville, Ky., is well known for his interest in
passenger trains and, in particular, the steam locomo-
tive train. He was among some 800 railroad buffs
who this past summer donned engineers’ caps, put
red bandanas around their necks, and dangled cameras
from their shoulders to ride a 21-car train from Cin-
cinnati to Louisville. The train was drawn by C&O
steam locomotive #614 and the nostaglia ran high as
it traveled the route known in railroad lingo as the
Short Line. Castner prepared a story complete with
photographs entitled ‘‘Long Memories on the Short
Line.’’ The article was carried in the Special Report
section of the September 1981 issue of Louisville
Magazine, the monthly publication of the local
Chamber of Commerce.

1953

BRANTLEY Barr, formerly vice president of public

 

finance, for Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., is now in
business for himself as an investment banker for state
government agencies. He is located in Chatham, N.J.
He and his wife, Cheri, have two children.

WILLIAM H. COLEMAN of Altamonte Springs, Fla.,
is currently serving as secretary of Rotary Interna-
tional District 698.

SAMUEL S. M. Du Bois is president of Curtis Paper
Division of the James River Corp. In June 1981 Du
Bois received the Brotherhood Award of the National
Conference of Christians and Jews during ceremonies
held in New York City. He lives in Philadelphia.

SIMON GALPERIN JR., a real estate executive in
Charleston, W.Va., is now in his 16th year in the
State Legislature. He has been in the State Senate
since 1970.

JOHN D. HEarD is administrative manager for Texas-
gulf, Inc., phosphate operations in Aurora, N.C.
After a long history as a publicly-held natural re-
sources company, the firm is now a subsidiary of
French Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine. Heard and
his wife, Pat, live in New Bern, N.C.

RODNEY F. Stock Jr. retired from the Reno, Nev.,
Police Department after 20 years of service. He is
now doing private investigative and security work.

1954

Dr. ROBERT O. PAXTON is completing his term as
chairman of the history department at Columbia Uni-
versity. His book, Vichy France and The Jews, co-
authored with Michael Marrus of the University of
Toronto, was published in France in April 1981 and
in New York by Basic Books in October 1981.

JAMES R. TRIMM of Potomac, Md., has been elected
to another term as a Maryland delegate to the House
of Delegates of the American Bar Association.

1955

WILLIAM H. Bartscu, after spending 19 years abroad
and most recently with the International Labor Office
in Switzerland, expects to be transferred in early
1982 to Washington, D.C., where he will hold the
post of Senior ILO Liaison Officer with the World
Bank.

YERGER HUNT CLIFTON, whose study of law at
Washington and Lee was interrupted by four years in
the Navy, is currently professor of English literature
at Southwestern at Memphis. Clifton served aboard
the cruiser Roanoke at Navy Headquarters in London,
at the Royal Staff College, and in Northern Ireland.
Following the military service, he received his masters
at the University of Virginia, taught at the College of
William and Mary, and then returned to Ireland to
pursue his doctorate at Trinity College. He joined the
faculty at Southwestern in 1965. Clifton has also
been dean of British Studies at Oxford since the
inception of the program in 1970.

   

M.P. ter, 57

PAUL H. WEINSTEIN is a partner in the law firm of
Weinstein, Pitterich & Snedegar, P.C., with practice
in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
The office is located in Chevy Chase, Md.

1956
MARRIAGE: JouN M. ELLIs and Elaine Naramore,
on Dec. 6, 1981. Ellis is a partner with Liebman
Williams Ellis, Architects and Planners, in New York
City, with a branch in Denver, Colo. Mrs. Ellis is a
producer of concerts, exhibitions, and other programs
for the arts.

RUPERT CHISHOLM is an associate professor of man-
agement at Penn State University. He currently does
research on the nature of job tension which nuclear
workers experienced during the Three Mile Island
accident. The data was originally collected for the
Behavorial Effects Task Force of the President’s
commission on the accident. Articles on the study
have appeared in American Journal of Public Health,
Journal of Occupational Behavior and Annals of the
New York Academy of Science.

DUDLEY D. FLANDERS, a prominent attorney in New
Orleans, La., has recently served on a five-member
task force to evaluate one of the oldest state mental
hospitals in the south at Jackson, La.

1957

JAMES M. BOSWELL of Germantown, Tenn., is direc-
tor of marketing for Kroger Co. in the mid-south
region.

Morton P. ILER has been named senior vice presi-
dent, accounting and systems of Petro-Lewis Corp.
of Denver, Colo. Prior to joining Petro-Lewis, Iler
was with Ashland Oil Co., Inc., for eight years, most
recently as administrative vice president of Ashlands
chemical division. From 1964 to 1973 Iler was with
Conoco, Inc., serving in various capacities. He was
on the audit staff of the New York office of Price

Waterhouse & Co. from 1958 to 1963.

JOHN D. Marsu is with Datacrown Inc., a computer
services firm in Silver Springs, Md. He lives in
Purcellville, Va., and commutes the long distance
each day.

1958
KarRL M. FUNKHOUSER is active in little theatre and
local TV work. In April 1981 he produced, directed,
and acted in The Vigil, a drama by Ladislas Fador, for
the British Embassy Players of Washington, D.C.
Funkhouser is also a member of the Two Century
Club of the National Rifle Association of America.

THE Rev. E. JAMES Lewis has resigned from St.
Johns Episcopal Church in Charleston, W.Va., and
will become the minister at St. Andrews Episcopal
Church in Ann Arbor, Mich., effective in June 1982.
Lewis formerly had a parish in Martinsburg, W.Va.

WILLIAM E. MILLER has held the position of vice

president and general counsel for Max Factor & Co..,
a subsidiary of Norton Simon, Inc., since January
1981. He lives in Woodland Hills, Calif.

1959

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, a partner in a Tallahassee, Fla.,
law firm, has been elected a director of Central Tele-
phone & Utilities Corporation headquartered in
Chicago, III.

RICHARD C. BUTLER JR. is executive director of
Contact Little Rock, a telephone crisis intervention
and counseling ministry in Little Rock, Ark. The
center is affiliated with Life Line International.

THOMAS D. FRITH JR. is a substitute judge for the
27th Judicial Circuit. He lives in Blacksburg, Va.

Dr. WILLIAM S. HARRISON has been promoted to the
rank of captain, Dental Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve,
and is commanding officer of the Reserve Mobiliza-
tion Component for the National Naval Dental Center
in Bethesda, Md.

JOHN D. HATTENDORF is the western sales manager
for R. T. Vanderbilt Co. He and his wife have two
children and live in Arlington, Texas.

PATRICK HENRY has been elected to his second four-
year term as District Attorney for Suffolk County,
N.Y. Henry is a former deck officer in the Merchant
Marine and served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy.
Following graduation from law school he practiced
admiralty law in New York City and served as assis-
tant prosecutor in the Suffolk County District Attor-
ney’s Office for 11 years. He was first elected to the
office of District Attorney in 1977. Henry and his
wife, Theresa, have five children. The family lives in
Babylon, Long Island, N.Y.

WILLIAM K. HUGHES, formerly of St. Louis, is now
in Pittsburgh, Pa., where he is general manager of
Sheet products of the U.S. Steel Corp. He and his
wife, Sandra, have two children.

EvAN J. Kemp Jr., who has had a neuromuscular
disease for 34 years, is director of the Disability
Rights Center, Inc., of Washington, D.C., founded
in 1976 to advocate the rights of physically and men-
tally disabled people. An article by Kemp appeared in
the Sept. 3, 1981, issue of the New York Times.
Kemp, an award-winning attorney, worked for the
Securities and Exchange Commission for 13 years
and provided the Justice Department with information
that won an anti-trust case against one of the largest
wheelchair manufacturers in the world. He also won
an employment rights lawsuit against the federal
government that helped the passage of the part-time
Career Employment Act of 1979. Kemp has made
several appearances on radio and television.

Tom REa is president of the Silver Sea Sales Co., an
importer, processor, and distributor of fresh and
frozen seafood in Baltimore, Md.

35

 

Class Notes

TOM SCHMIDT is in Albuquerque, N.M., where he is
teaching at the University of Albuquerque and at the
Job Corps Center. He is also directing, designing,
and producing in the local theaters.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR., a full professor at T. C.
Williams School of Law at the University of Rich-
mond, received a Distinguished Educator Award in
September 1981.

CAPTAIN F. JAMES BARNES III is executive assistant
to Admiral Walters, Department of Chief of Naval
Operations for all surface warfare.

1961
MARRIAGE: JAMES H. HAMERSLAY and Christine
Woleslagle on April 11, 1981. Formerly residents of
New York City, the couple now lives in Duxbury,
Mass.

E. J. SULZBERGER Jr. of Hampton, Va., has been
appointed to a stand-by local Selective Service Claims
Adjudication Board in Virginia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLARK D. VALENTINER, a
second son, Stewart M., on Aug. 27, 1981. The
family lives in Elizabethtown, N.J.

Dr. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY, a pediatrician of Hope-
well Junction, N. Y., has been elected president of the
Dutchess County Board of Health and vice president
of the Dutchess County Medical Society. He also
raises thoroughbred horses.

ALAN CorRwIn was recently appointed associate vice
president of Dean Witter Reynolds.

H. ALLEN CurRAN has been promoted to professor
of geology at Smith College in Northampton, Mass.
In addition to teaching, he continues to be active in
research in marine geology and paleontology.

K. DouGLas MartTIn, in addition to being president
and chief executive officer of Scripto, Inc., has as-
sumed responsibilities as president and CEO of Wil-
kinson Sword North America, the razor blade and
cutlery manufacturer, effective September 1981, and
chairman of the board of Charles Blair International,
Paris, the perfume and bath essence firm, effective
January 1982.

E. WARREN MILLS, formerly of Syosset, N.Y., now
makes his home in New Port Richey, Fla. He remains
president of General Ruby and Sapphire Corp., now
based in Tampa. Recently he was admitted to the
District of Columbia Bar. He maintains a CPA and
attorney practice in New York City.

ROBERT E. WILLIAMS, head football coach at Parry
McCluer High School in Buena Vista, Va., has been
named 1981 Timesland Coach of the Year by the
Roanoke Times & World News newspaper. Parry
McCluer’s Fighting Blues lost the Group A state

36

   

W: P: Boardman, ’63

semi-final game at Wise, Va. The team finished with
a record of 11-1-1. Williams’ teams have won the
state championship two out of the last five years.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MACKENNEY, a
son, Kyle Berkeley, on Dec. 17, 1981. The family
lives in Redmond, Wash.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, formerly with the law firm
of Porter, Wright, Morris & Arthur in Columbus,
Ohio, has been elected senior vice president and
general counsel of BancOhio National Bank and
BancOhio Corp. Boardman is responsible for provid-
ing legal counsel and advice for the bank and the
holding company. He will also be a member of the
senior management committee. Boardman is a mem-
ber of the American Bar Association, the Columbus
Bar Association and the Banking and Business Law
Section of the American Bar Association. He is a
trustee of the Columbus School for Girls and the
Franklin County Society for Autism. He is also active
in the United Way and fund-raising for the Children’s
Hospital.

EDWARD W. Ho MES is on the faculty of Duke Uni-
versity Medical School as professor of medicine and
assistant professor of biochemistry. His wife, the
former Judith Swain, is also a doctor and on the Duke
faculty as a cardiologist.

JOHN MARCH was recently promoted to senior vice
president at the State National Bank of El Paso. He
continues as manager of the National Services and
Correspondent Banking Department.

GEORGE D. REED Jr. has been promoted to director
of manufacturing of Club House Foods, Inc., of
London, Ontario. Club House Foods is a subsidiary
of McCormick & Co., Inc., of Baltimore, Md. Reed’s
assignments include responsibilities for all facets of
manufacturing and distribution.

CHARLES H. STEVENSON is president of Contecx,
Inc., a general contracting firm in St. Croix. He is
also on the board of trustees of St. Croix Country Day
School and is an officer of the St. Croix Yacht Club.

1964

ALFRED E. ECKES JR. has been appointed by President
Reagan and confirmed by the Senate for a nine-year
term as a commissioner on the U.S. International
Trade Commission.

ALVIN B. HUTZLER II of Richmond, Va., has been
elected to the board of trustees of the National Asso-
ciation of Tobacco Distributors. He was also elected
chairman of the board of the Young Executive Divi-
sion of the same association.

Dr. BILL H. KINSey JR. has been with the School of
Development Studies for the University of East An-
glia in Norwich, England, since he left the World
Bank in 1974. In 1981 he stepped down as director of

the Overseas Development Group, after four years in
that position to assume a grant-funded post as senior
research fellow in the Centre for Applied Social
Sciences at the University of Zimbabwe in Salisbury.
Kinsey will return to England in 1984.

DONALD B. MCFALL is a partner in the Houston,
Texas, law firm of Butler, Binion, Rice, Cook &
Knapp. He and his wife have two daughters.

JOHN T. WINEBRENNER is living in Hong Kong where
he is vice president and general manager of the R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. Ltd. His wife, Cary, is the
manager of the Citibank in Hong Kong with respon-
sibility for personal portfolio management in the In-
ternational Service Division.

1965

WALTER H. BENNETT JR. and family live in David-
son, N.C. He continues to work in Charlotte as North
Carolina District Court Judge.

GREGORY E. EUSTON has been transferred from
Houston to Miami to serve as group operating super-
intendent for Sears, Roebuck and Co.

Dr. ADAM J. FIEDLER practices obstetrics and gyne-
cology in Richmond, Va. He and his wife have a son,
Lee, 11, and a daughter, Julie, 9. They are avid sailors
and skiers.

Dr. Tom L. HAMPTON has practiced internal medicine
with the Dallas Diagnostic Association since he left
the Navy in 1976. In 1980-81, he served as chief of
internal medicine services at Medical City Dallas
Hospital. Hampton and his wife, Deanie, live in
Dallas with their son, Tommy, 13, and daughter,
Julie, 10.

WILLIAM H. JAMISON is executive vice president of
Johnson and Hardin Co., book manufacturers, in
Cincinnati, Ohio. He earned an M.B.A. at Ohio State
in 1972 and is aCPA. Jamison ran in the 1980 Marine
Corps Marathon in Washington.

JOHN E. Moore has joined Korn/Ferry International
as partner and vice president in the firm’s Dallas
office. Korn/Ferry is an executive search firm. Moore
had been employed by Rockwell International. He
lives in Richardson, Texas, with his family.

JAMES M. Stay Jr. has joined the law firm of Henry,
Hairston & Price of Easton, Md.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. ANDERSON, a daugh-
ter, Dara Leigh, on Oct. 1, 1981, in Hartsdale, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. EDWARD B. CROSLAND JR., a
son, Edward Stewart, on Aug. 21, 1981. The young
man joins a 4-year-old sister. Crosland is an attorney
in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lewis N. MILLER JR., a son

i aa a lO

 

by adoption, Lewis Nelson III, on Sept. 12, 1981.
They live in Richmond. On Jan. 1, 1982, Miller was
promoted to executive vice president and chief ad-
ministrative officer of Central Fidelity Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Grayson C. PowEL Jr., a
son, Daniel Carrington, on Nov. 4, 1981, in South
Boston, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PAuL R. SCHLESINGER, a
daughter, Emily Joanna, on Sept. 20, 1981, in
Brooklyn, N.Y. Schlesinger is a vice president in the
investment research group of Donaldson, Lufkin and
Jenrette in New York City.

WESLEY W. Horner has moved to Denver as director
of planning in the new office of Hellmuth, Obata and
Kassabaum, architects and planners. The firm has
headquarters in St. Louis with offices in seven U.S.
cities and Saudi Arabia.

CHARLES W. JONES, a partner in charge of the Atlanta
office for Clifton, Gunderson and Co., has been
elected to the seven-member partnership board which
governs the 20 office regional CPA firm.

THOMAS MCN. MILLHISER is an associate with the
law firm of Hunton and Williams in Richmond, Va.

Dr. GERARD T. TAYLOR was promoted to unit leader
in the process development section of Norwich-Eaton
Pharmaceuticals in Norwich, N.Y.

STEPHEN R. YANCEY is a partner in the Shreveport,
La., law firm of Cook, Yancey, King and Galloway.
He is also a fellow of the American Bar Foundation.

1967

MARRIAGE: Dr. Gary B. BokINsky and Carolyn
Ann Elledge on Sept. 12, 1981, in Cocoa Beach,
Fla. Classmates in the wedding were Guyte P. Mc-
Cord and Joseph W. Huston. The couple lives in
Richmond where Bokinsky has his medical practice.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LAWRENCE FELLMAN, a
son, Jeremy Nicholas, on Sept. 3, 1981, in Dallas.
Fellman was elected an organizing director of Heritage
National Bank of Richardson, Texas.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RoGer A. MILAM, ason, Erik
Cannon, on June 5, 1980, in Nashville, Tenn. Milam
practices law there with the firm of Manier, White,
Herod, Hollabaugh and Smith.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD L. MITCHELL, a
son, Richard James, on June 16, 1980, in Glen Ridge,
N.J. Mitchell is vice president and general counsel
for the Worthington Group of McGraw Edison Co. in
Basking Ridge, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN T. RAINS Jr., a daugh-
ter, Louise Troy, on June 25, 1981, in Alexandria,
Va. Rains is a vice president of the Maryland National
Bank.

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Rosert E. VAIL, a son,
Robert George, on Sept. 21, 1981, in Lancaster, Pa.
Following an attempt to sail around the world with his
wife, Ingrid, in 1977, Vail took a position as vice
president of marketing at Pennsylvania Scale Co.
After three years in that job, he and his wife started
their own firm, Godfrey Advertising.

WILLIAM R. BABCOCK, a Richmond, Va., realtor, is
developing condominiums in Virginia Beach.

REv. W. RAND FORDER received the doctor of minis-
try degree from the Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary in Louisville, Ky., on Dec. 18, 1981. He is
minister of the First Baptist Church in Easton, Md.

On Jan. 1, 1982, RICHARD L. HARDEN became a
partner in the New York law firm of Winthrop, Stim-
son, Putnam and Roberts.

Dr. JOHN R. McGILL of Hampden Highlands, Maine,
has been elected to active membership in the New
England Society of Plastic Surgeons and the American
Association of Hand Surgeons.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. M. Ray BRADFORD JR., ason,
Andrew, on Sept. 3, 1981, in Bangor, Maine. Brad-
ford has his own law practice in Bangor.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Corset F. BRYANT JR., their
sixth daughter, Paige Sumner, April 8, 1981, in
Richardson, Texas. Bryant is a partner in the Dallas
law firm of Carrington, Coleman, Sloman and Blu-
menthal.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. W. RED Cox Jr., a daughter,
Mary Carson, on Aug. 25, 1981, in Laurens, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp A. Dopp Jr., a
daughter, Laura O’Brien, on Aug. 8, 1981, in Hous-
ton, Texas. After seven years with the Harris County
District Attorney’s office, Dodd started a civil trial
practice specializing in admiralty law in 1980.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. E. R. (SKIP) JACOBSEN, ason,
Kirk Matthew, on Oct. 2, 1981. The family lives in
Bethesda, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JEFFREY G. LAWSON, a son,
Joseph Scales, in Greenville, S.C. Lawson practices
rheumatology at the Piedmont Arthritis Clinic there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert H. MOLL, a son,
Timothy Courtlandt, on Dec. 25, 1981, in McLean,
Va.

BIRTH: CaPTain and Mrs. JOHN W. RICE Jr., a
daughter, Christina Renee; on Nov. 7, 1981. The
family lives in Albuquerque, N.M.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. WHITNEY THORNTON II, a
daughter, Elizabeth Jane, on Dec. 13, 1981, in Ar-
lington, Va. She has a 4-year-old brother, Bryan
Whitney. In June 1981, Thornton withdrew from the

law firm of Sullivan and Beauregard to form a new
Washington firm of Bowman, Conner, Touhey and
Thornton.

DONALD H. BAKER and DuDLEY D. CockE JR. were
featured in an article about their Roadside Theater
and highly acclaimed regional drama, Red Fox/Second
Hangin’ . The article appeared in the December 1981
edition of Smithsonian magazine.

McCLANAHAN INGLES has been with the Gloucester,
Va., law firm of Martin, Hicks and Ingles since July
1973. He also operates a 600-acre grain farm with a
herd of Angus cattle and is involved in real estate
development in Virginia and on the Florida Gulf
Coast.

Dr. Eric P. MANTZ, a general and peripheral vascular
surgeon in Charleston, W.Va., was certified by the
American Board of Surgery and is a Fellow of the
American College of Surgeons. He also serves as a
clinical associate professor in the Charleston division
of the West Virginia University School of Medicine.
Mantz, his wife, Sandi, and children, Bryan, 8, and
Erica, 3, live in Charleston.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Spotswoop H. WILLIAMS, a
son, Travis Pfister, on Aug. 27, 1981, in Houston,

Texas. Williams is a pilot for Continental Airlines.

BRUCE E. DOWNING is president and a director of the
Winchester, Va., Big Brothers—Big Sisters organi-
zation and is a director and secretary of the local
United Way. He represented Winchester on the re-
gional Mental Health and Retardation Services Board
from 1977 to 1981. Downing is an attorney in Win-
chester.

W. DouGLas HALL is senior hydrogeologist and
manager of Austin operations for Hydro-Search, Inc.,
a ground water consulting firm with offices in Austin,
Texas; Denver, Colo., and Reno, Nev. Hall and his
wife, Pam, live in Austin with their three children:
Jennifer, 7, Kathy, 4, and Adam, 1.

Roy G. HARRELL JR. was named ‘‘Chamber Member
of the Year’’ by the St. Petersburg, Fla., Area Cham-
ber of Commerce.

GARLAND S. TUCKER III has been elected president
of Carolina Securities Corp. in Raleigh, N.C. He had
been executive vice president of the firm with head-
quarters in Raleigh and offices in 14 other cities.

ROBERT W. WIPFLER teaches and coaches at Landon
School in Bethesda, Md. He also writes a regular
column for the Collegiate Baseball newspaper.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN (See 1963.)

DONALD B. MCFALL (See 1964.)

1970

MARRIAGE: Gorpon W. BEALL and Carol Enquist
37

Class Notes

in October 1980. Beall is a freelance photographer in
Washington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD F. DUNLAP JR., a
daughter, Katherine Cory, on March 21, 1981, in
Matthews, N.C.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. C. GILBERT FRANK, a daugh-
ter, Jennifer Taylor, on March 29, 1981, in Aurora,
Colo. Frank is a major in the Army Medical Corps
performing a fellowship in hematology at the Fitz-
simons Army Medical Center.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RANDOLPH L. HuTTO, a son,
Lee Parker, on Sept. 7, 1981, in Atlanta, Ga.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. BRucE S. SAMUELS, a son,
Booth Gordon, on June 11, 1981, in New Orleans.
Samuels is in the private practice of internal medi-
cine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. WILSON JR., a
daughter, Courtney Elaine, on April 21, 1981, in
Rock Springs, Wyo.

RICHARD B. ARMSTRONG has been promoted to group
vice president by Wachovia Bank. He is in the New
York office with responsibility for corporate banking
in the northern U.S. and eastern Canada. Armstrong
and his wife, the former Nancy J. Jones of Raleigh,
N.C., live in New York.

Puicip S. KEAT is an assistant manager of a retail
branch office for First Hawaiian Bank. His primary
duty is business loans. Keat has been with First
Hawaiian Bank since 1970. He also writes music and
has had 12 songs published and released in Hawaii.

Davip D. KyMPTON is vice president and manager of
the Richmond loan production office for American
Security Bank of Washington. He is responsible for
commercial banking relationships in Virginia, West
Virginia, and the Carolinas.

JOHN M. NOLAN has just completed the program for
Management Development at Harvard University.
He currently is regional director, customer services,
Northeast Region, for the U.S. Postal Service. He
lives in Valhalla, N.Y.

On June 1, 1981, HARRY L. SALZBERG joined the
brokerage firm of Anderson and Strudwick as a vice
president charged with opening and managing an
office in Washington, D.C.

Dr. BrucE S. SAMUELS has been certified by the
American Board of Internal Medicine. His practice is
in New Orleans.

DONALD C. SMITH works for the U.S. Department of
Transportation as the design project manager for rail-
road service facilities on the Northeast Corridor Im-
provement Project, a $2.5 billion program to improve
Amtrak’s passenger service in the Northeast.

GERALD W. WEEDON has been made a partner in the

38

law firm of Marks, Gray, Conroy and Gibbs, P.S., in
Jacksonville, Fla.

EDWARD B. CROSLAND JR. (See 1966.)

D. WHITNEY THORNTON II (See 1968.)

197]

RAYMOND D. CoatEs Jr. was elected president of
the Worcester County, Maryland, Bar Association.

STEPHEN H. KERKAM has been promoted to account
executive by Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone
Co. He lives in Westminster, Md.

JAMES M. Stay Jr. (See 1965.)

1972
MARRIAGE: CHARLES W. PRIDE and Kathryn Mc-
Curdy in Denver, Colo. They live in Denver where
Pride is employed by Amber Properties, Ltd., a real
estate development firm.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. DENNIS ANGEL, a daughter,
Stephanie Lee, on Oct. 28, 1981, in New York City.
Angel has a private practice in Manhattan specializing
in entertainment law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN D. ANNAND, ason,
Franklin Darley, on Dec. 12, 1981, in Alexandria,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomaS O. BARTON, a
daughter, Webber, on March 1, 1980. He is a partner
in the Austin, Texas, law firm of McGinnis, Loch-
ridge and Kilgore.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ARTHUR N. FURHMAN, ason,
Jeremy Scott, on Oct. 31, 1981. They live in Long
Valley, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. RANDOLPH GRAHAM, a
daughter, Carrie Elizabeth, on Nov. 21, 1981. Gra-
ham has transferred from Dallas, Texas, to Rich-
mond, Va., where he works in corporate marketing
for Whittaker General Medical, distributors of hospi-
tal supplies and equipment.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GILBERT S. MEEM JR., ason,
Gilbert S. Meem III, on June 25, 1981. Meem is a
sales representative with E. F. Hutton & Co., Inc.,
with offices in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Louis W. SHROYERIV, ason,
Matthew Louis, on June 20, 1981, in Bethesda, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark E. SKOGGARD, a
daughter, Matilda Ehringhaus, on Oct. 17, 1981.
Skoggard is the manager of project control services
for Reynolds Tobacco Co., which he joined in 1980
as a financial analyst. He earned his M.B.A. at Wake
Forest in 1979. They live in Clemmons, N.C.

IRA S. FELDMAN has been promoted to staff director

of the corporate legal department for McDonald’s
Corp.

BERNARD C. GricsBy II has been elected a stock-
holder of Kidder-Peabody and Co. in New York. He
is a vice president in the government bond depart-
ment. Grigsby and his wife, Carol, have moved to
Rye, N.Y.

W. HENRY JERNIGAN Jr. has been named a partner in
the Charleston, W.Va., law firm of Jackson, Kelly,
Holt and O’Farrell. He was also appointed chairman
of the W.Va. Bar Association’s newly formed stand-
ing committee on antitrust laws.

Dr. MICHAEL W. MCCALL is practicing general der-
matology and Mohs chemosurgery in Louisville, Ky.,
and also teaching at the University of Louisville
Medical School. He completed a residence in each of
his specialties plus internal medicine.

MICHAEL L. UNT1 is in the antitrust division of Hunton
and Williams in Richmond, Va.

CHARLES L. WHITE is senior trust officer for Society
National Bank in Cleveland, Ohio. He and his wife,
Deborah, live in Solon with sons, Charles Jr., 5, and
Jeffrey, 2.

McCLANAHAN INGLES (See 1968.)

MARRIAGE: ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV and Elizabeth
Ann Hewitt on Nov. 21, 1981, in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JESSE C. CRUMBLEY III, a
daughter, Margaret Neale, on Nov. 27, 1981, in
Lynchburg.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN H. Dumas II, a son,
Paul Wright, on March 20, 1981, in Birmingham,
Ala. Dumas is in the private practice of internal
medicine.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. THOMAS G. FERGUSON JR., a
daughter, Emily Jane, on May 27, 1981. They live in
Edmond, Okla., while Ferguson is in private law
practice in Oklahoma City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. FERNALD III, ason,
James Atwater IV, on March 9, 1981, in Charlottes-
ville, Va. Fernald is general sales manager for WVIR-
TV, the area NBC affiliate.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN P. FLUHARTY, a
son, Thomas Markham, on Aug. 7, 1981. Fluharty is
a project electrical engineer for the Seminole Electric
Cooperative, Inc., in Tampa, Fla. His wife is the
former Lynn Loomis of Tampa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. FRENCH, a son,
Hamilton Lee, on Feb. 20, 1981, in Richmond, Va.
French is working in his family’s business in Tappa-
hannock, Va.

A a Ce ee ee ee ee ee

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RAYBURN R. HAMMOND, a
daughter, Elizabeth Caroline, on Dec. 4, 1981, in
Bowling Green, Ky. Hammond earned his M.B.A. at
Western Kentucky University and is manager of a
welding and medical supply distributorship in
Bowling Green.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. SPAULDING, a
daughter, Sarah Barnes, on Oct. 23, 1981, in Chase
City, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN STANLEY TAYLOR, a
second daughter, Emily Gwynne, on Aug. 5, 1981.
Taylor, a vice president of First City National Bank
of Houston, Texas, was recently promoted to the
position of assistant manager of the Eurodollar and
Foreign Exchange Department of the Investment
Division.

GATES G. BRELSFORD is manager of corporate affairs
for Prairie Producing Co., a new issue oil and gas
exploration firm in Houston, Texas.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER, a systems engineer for IBM
in Rochester, N.Y., attended the firm’s Systems En-
gineering Symposium in March 1981 and the regional
leaders forum in July 1981. Since then he has been
working on several custom design projects for large
accounts.

W. REVELL Lewis III is a partner in the Parksley,
Va., law firm of Tyler and Lewis.

J. JASON MATTHEWS began a three-year tour in Octo-
ber 1981 as second secretary for the Department of
State at the American Embassy in Madrid. His duties
involve political affairs with the Spanish Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. He had previously been assigned to
Athens.

WILLIAM G. K. MERRILL serves as a consultant in the
capacity of director of international marketing for
Champion Products, Inc., in Rochester, N.Y.

STEPHEN C. WortH has started his own law firm of
Worth, Scheld, Trager and Rogers in Garden City,
N.Y. Worth had been an assistant district attorney
and trial supervisor in the homicide bureau of the
Brooklyn district for four years. He and his wife,
Amy, have a son, Christopher.

RICHARD L. HARDEN (See 1967.)

1974
MARRIAGE: RICHARD K. STuART JR. and Mary Lyn
Brown on May 15, 1981, in Longview, Texas. They
live in Longview where Stuart is a polymer chemist
for Texas Eastman Co., a division of Eastman Kodak.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. LALLEY Jr., a
daughter, Jennifer Tighe, on Nov. 7, 1981, in Balti-
more, Md. Lalley is assistant vice president in the
national division of Maryland National Bank.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOSEPH C. LEary III, a son,

Joseph Clarence IV, on Oct. 23, 1981. They have
moved from Washington, D.C., to La Grange, Ga.,
where Leary is export sales manager for Europe and
the Middle East for Milliken and Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. NICHOLAS R. WREDEN III, a
daughter, Crystal, in August 1981. Wreden is layout
and copy editor for the Atlanta (Ga.) Constitution. He
received the M.A. degree from the University of
Missouri in August 1981.

NorMAN D. FaGGE is an exploration geologist for
Amoco Production Co. in New Orleans. He lives in
Slidell, La., with his wife and daughters, Alice, 2,
and Megan, 1. Fagge was recently promoted to captain
in the U.S. Army Reserve. He is also president of the
Park Place Homeowners Association.

On Nov. 20, 1981, Capr. DAvip V. FINNELL com-
pleted the Army Adjutant’s General Advance Course
at Ft. Harrison, Ind. In May 1982, he will begin a
three-year tour of duty at West Point as an Eng-
lish instructor.

KENNETH J. GRUBER earned his Ph.D. in psychology
from the University of North Carolina at Greensboro
in August 1981. His area of concentration was social
psychology.

Dr. WILLIAM R. Larosa Jr. has started a plastic
surgery residency at Nassau County Medical Center
in East Meadow, Long Island, N.Y.

Dr. JosEPH P. MCMENAMIN completed his internal
medicine residency at Emory University in Atlanta.
He is now a first year law student at the University of
Pennsylvania, where he graduated from medical
school in 1978. A law school classmate is WINSTON
Burks III, ’81, McMenamin plans to enter a career
that combines law and medicine, possibly in mal-
practice litigation.

BRADFORD N. MartTIN has been named to the budget
and review committee of the Greenville County, S.C.,
United Way.

WILLIAM R. MELTON IV moved from Newport News,
Va., to a waterfront apartment in a century-old house
in Hampton, Va. He is still a staff reporter covering
city government for the Newport News Daily Press.

DouGtas J. NEWELL is manager of sales information
and development for Peter Paul Cadbury, Inc., a
division of Cadbury Schweppes Ltd. He lives in
Naugatuck, Conn.

-PauL E. Poor is a member of the Johnson City,

N.Y., law firm of Cenesky, Alenik and Stefanski. He
also serves as a director of the Broome County Bar
Association, president of the Johnson City Rotary
Club, president and alumni admissions chairman of
the Triple Cities Colgate Club, and a junior lacrosse
coach. Pool and his wife, Bobbie, live in Binghamton,
N.Y.

JAMES G. ROGERS was appointed assistant treasurer

of General Waterworks Corp., a water utility holding
company in operation in 13 states. He lives in St.
Davids, Pa.

On Jan. 1, 1982, WILLIAM H. SANDERS became a
partner in the Kansas City, Mo., law firm of Black-
well, Sanders, Matheny, Weary and Lombardi.

JOHN M. ZaAmoOIsKI left Ringling Brothers Circus to
become president of Leisure Time Promotions, Inc.,
the consulting division of Ash/LeDonne, the largest
leisure time advertising agency in the country. Among
his clients are Madison Square Garden, Radio City
Music Hall, Wometco Enterprises, Manhattan Cable
Television, and the U.S. Professional Gymnastics
Classic.

1975
MARRIAGE: S. LAWRENCE DUMVILLE and Frances
Adair Davis on Oct. 24, 1981, in Norfolk, Va. Class-
mate Chip MacDonald was a groomsman. Dumville
1S associated with the Norfolk law firm of Breeden,
Howard and MacMillan.

MARRIAGE: Paut G. FirTH and Diana Dell Murdock
on March 21, 1981, in Macon, Ga. Firth is a third
year obstetrics and gynecology resident at the Medical
Center of Central Georgia in Macon.

MARRIAGE: STEVEN W. VAN AMBURGH and Lee
Ann Whitten on Nov. 21, 1981, in Dallas, Texas.
Van Amburgh is in the dynamite and explosive busi-
ness.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FreD K. GRANADE, a son,
Milton Smith, on Oct. 9, 1981, in Bay Minette, Ala.

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. HOFFMAN are adopting a
daughter, Julie, who arrived in their home from
Korea in July 1981. They live in Brooklyn, N.Y.

BIRTH: ANGELICA D1pIER LLOYD and Thomas P.
Lloyd, a son, Thomas Preston Jr., on Dec: 19, 1981,
in Roanoke, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Roppy J. McCaskILL, a
daughter, Molly Alexander, on Oct. 29, 1981. Mc-
Caskill is with Bailey Corp. Realtors in Little Rock,
Ark.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN C. THIENEL, a
daughter, Stephanie Claire, on May 15, 1981. They
live in Lanham, Md. Thienel is with the Chessie
System Railroads. .

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK L. WALTERS, a son,
William Preston, on Nov. 12, 1981. The family lives
in Menlo Park, Calif.

CurTIS E. BOSWELL is associated with Mickelson
Land Services and Drilling Ventures, Inc., in Los
Angeles. He lives in Long Beach and was to take the
California Bar exam in February 1982.

LAWRENCE B. CAHOON earned his Ph.D. in biologi-

39

Class Notes

cal oceanography from Duke University in April
1981. He is administering the basic biology course
and will teach introductory biological oceanography
at the Duke Marine Laboratory in the summer. Cahoon
had a summer post-doctoral fellowship at the Moun-
tain Lake Biological Station in 1981.

On Jan. 1, 1982, EDMUND B. Grecory III was
elected audit partner with Linton Shafer and Co.,
accounting firm in Frederick, Md. He serves in the
community as executive vice president of the Jaycees
and as a director and treasurer of the Frederick Cham-
ber of Commerce.

Paut B. Kurtz III has been named auditor for the
St. Louis division of the Safeco Insurance Co.

PauL J. LANCASTER has been appointed assignment
editor for the news department of WDBJ-TV in Roa-
noke, Va. Lancaster had previously served two years
covering local government for WDBJ, the CBS
affiliate in Roanoke, and had been that station’s capi-
tal correspondent headquartered in Richmond for the
past four years.

THOMAS D. LANCASTER spent nine months of dis-
sertation research in Spain and is now completing his
degree in his final year at Washington University in
St. Louis. He taught politics at W&L during the 1981
winter and spring terms.

CARTER H. Moore has been promoted to senior
landman by Amoco Production Co. in Houston,
Texas.

Dr. PRESTON R. SIMPSON is in the third year of his
four-year residency in pathology at the Southwestern
Medical School and Parkland Memorial Hospital in
Dallas, Texas.

JAMES E. TOLER Jr. has been named New York state
representative in addition to being New England
representative for United Media Enterprises.

Dr. JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR. is completing his internal
medicine residency at the Mayo Graduate School of
Medicine in Rochester, Minn. He will enter private
practice in Birmingham, Ala., in July 1982.

Capt. JOEL A. WILLIAMS has transferred from Sch-
weinfurt, West Germany, to the U.S. Army Automo-
tive-Tank Command at Warren, Mich., for the re-
mainder of his service.

W. HENRY JERNIGAN Jr. (See 1972.)

1976

MARRIAGE: L. LANGHORNE CRAIGHILL JR. and
Sherry Perkins on Sept. 26, 1981, in Richmond, Va.
The wedding party included classmates Billy Pifer,
Cary Patrick, Doug Muir, and Tom Mickler. The
couple lives in Clarksville, Va., where Craighill
works for the Burlington Industries Menswear Divi-
sion.

40

MARRIAGE: Patrick K. Srec and Lisa Lynn Peniston
on Nov. 28, 1981, in Lee Chapel. Stuart B. Nibley,
"75, °79L, was an usher. Sieg is an accounting man-
ager for Marriott International Hotels.

MARRIAGE: PAut A. SIMPSON and Debra Ann Trunk
on Aug. 8, 1981, in Clarion, Pa. They live in Peoria,
Ill.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK L. BATES, a
daughter, Katherine Lane, on Feb. 6, 1981, in New
Orleans, La.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. CARMODY, a son,
James Bryan, on June 19, 1981, in Richlands, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. LEE KEIGER III, a daughter,
Catherine Blair, on June 13, 1981, in Richmond, Va.
After five years as a CPA, Keiger has joined the
brokerage firm of Davenport and Co. of Virginia as
an investment banker specializing in real estate tax
shelters.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. MICHAEL A. OKIN, a
daughter, Robin Alexis, on Jan. 21, 1981. They live
in Martinez, Ga., where Okin is performing his in-
ternship and residency in family practice at the Eisen-
hower Army Medical Center. He graduated from
medical school at the University of Virginia in May
1980.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. JOHN TAYLOR, a son,
Jordan Eriksen, on Dec. 21, 1981, in Lewiston,
Idaho.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. DavID C. WARREN, a daugh-
ter, Caroline Rea, on Oct. 23, 1981, in Christians-
burg, Va.

BIRTH: REv. and Mrs. J. ARTHUR Woop III, a son,
James Arthur IV, on Nov. 13, 1981. Wood is a
Presbyterian minister in Jackson, Miss.

PAUL B. CROMELIN III recently joined American
Security Bank, N.A., in Washington, D.C. He will
be a trust officer in charge of new business develop-
ment.

JAMES D. DOYLE III has been made a partner in the
Austin, Texas, law firm of Kuhn, Mallios and Doyle.

BRUCE B. DUNNAN is an investment representative
in the Washington office of Alex Brown and Sons,
investment bankers.

Dr. H. SPRAGUE EUSTIS completed his medical in-
ternship at the Ochsner Foundation Hospital and is
now a resident in ophthalmology at the L.S.U. Eye
Center in New Orleans, La.

NEILSON L. JOHNSON had an exhibition of his pho-
tography displayed at The Savannah College of Art
and Design in January 1982. Johnson’s photographs
have been published in various magazines, notably
Louisiana Life, and his work has been shown at the
Zigler Museum in Jennings, La., the Greater Bir-

mingham (Ala.) Arts Alliance, and the Contemporary
Arts Center in New Orleans. Johnson currently resides
in Shreveport, La.

WILLIAM H. OGBURN Jr. has been promoted to
assistant vice president by North Carolina National
Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

GREGORY M. SorG was admitted to the New Hamp-
shire Bar in May 1981. He practices with Bruckner
P.A. in Woodsville. Sorg and his wife, Janine, are
restoring a 150-year-old federal-style house in
Haverhill where they live with their children, Ad-
rienne, 4, and Edmund, 2.

Dr. PAUL K. STILLWAGON is a first-year resident in
pediatrics at the Children’s Hospital of the University
of Alabama Medical Center in Birmingham.

RICHARD L. THIERINGER is marine manager for the
West Coast division in San Francisco of the Atlantic
Companies.

RICHARD T. WOULFE became a partner in the Fort
Lauderdale law firm of Bunnell, Denman and Woulfe
on Sept. 30, 1981.

C. ALBERT ZiPP III is remote producer and reporter
for ‘‘Live at Five’’ and producer and co-anchorman
for ‘‘10 p.m. Update News’’ at KFDM-TV in Beau-
mont, Texas. He and his wife, Mary, have one son,
Charley, age 2. Zipp is a director of the South Park
Rotary Club.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. GEE, a daughter,
Austin Elizabeth, on Oct. 23, 1981, in Wilmington,

Del.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. WEBSTER, a son,
Andrew Duffy, on Sept. 2, 1981, in Pittsburgh. He is
associated with the law firm of Springer and Perry in
that city.

STEVEN P. BAILEY is practicing law with the Denver
firm of Gorsuch, Kirgis, Campbell, Walker and
Grover.

E. TAZEWELL ELLETT practices with the Washington
law firm of Hogan and Hartson. He lives with his
wife, Lee, and year-old daughter, Pender, in Alex-
andria, Va.

CLAYTON W. PRESTON is studying for his master of
architecture degree at Virginia Tech.

BRADFORD N. MARTIN (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: DONALD A. COWSER JR. and Mary
Evans Moyer on July 24, 1981, in Dallas. Michael
Wallis, *78, was best man and other groomsmen
included classmates William Burton, Bruce Cauthen,
William Clemons, Richard McDaniel, Jeff Sone, and
Marshall Weaver, ’77. Pres Simpson, ’75, was a

i a i a

 

guest. Cowser earned his M.B.A. at Tulane in May
1980 and works for the management information
consulting division of Arthur Andersen and Co. in
Houston.

MARRIAGE: Rosert B. McCMIcHAEL and Marilyn
Lucille Galdieri on Dec. 5, 1981, in New Rochelle,
N.Y. Robert J. Williams, ’78, attended. The couple
lives in Leonia, N.J. McMichael is an advertising
copywriter for the publishing firm of Prentice-Hall,
Inc., in Englewood Cliffs, N.J.

MARRIAGE: ARTHUR J. May and Jeanne M. Fretz
on Aug. 22, 1981, in Ardmore, Pa. Among the guests
were Chip Gates, ’80; Larry Gumprich, ’80; Jim
Leisy, ’80; Bob Mehler, ’79; Grant Leister, ’79; Gary
Podesta, ’°79; Tom O’Hara, ’78; Denny Byrne, ’80;
Mac Ross, ’79; Susan May, ’82L; Bradley Fretz, ’77;
and, Edwin Wright, ’78. May graduated from the
University of Pennsylvania School of Law in June
1981. He is now associated with the Philadelphia law
firm of Pepper, Hamilton and Sheetz.

MARRIAGE: C. RANDOLPH PLITT and Myra Wheat
on Nov. 21, 1981, in Dallas. Classmates Chug Pur-
year and Peter Pearl were groomsmen.

BIRTH: DENNIS M. and JILL EDwarDs DOUGHERTY,
both 1978 law graduates, a daughter, Abigail Jane,
on Oct. 7, 1981, in Charlottesville. Both are on the
editorial staff of Michie/Bobbs-Merrill Law Publish-
ing Company in Charlottesville.

BIRTH: Lt. and Mrs. RoBErT Q. JONES JR., a son,
Christopher Power, on Aug. 2, 1981, in Kirch-Goens,
West Germany. Jones is a staff officer with the second
battalion of the 36th Infantry.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. Grecory C. SIEMINSKI, a
daughter, Sharra Marie, on Jan. 8, 1981, in Honolulu.
In November, Sieminski was transferred to the De-
fense Intelligence School in Washington where he is
earning his M.S. degree.

SHELBY K. BalILEy is a third-year student at the
University of Alabama Medical School in Birming-
ham.

MICHAEL T. CLEary has been promoted to captain in
the Army. He expects to earn a masters degree in
procurement management from Webster College in
May 1982 and also plans to leave the Army at that
time.

Harry T. Jones III is president of Fresh Express,
Inc., and owner of a farm in Thomasville, Ga.

RICHARD B. McDaNIEL has resigned as director of
annual giving at Woodberry Forest School to work
for Universal Medical Instrument. He is opening
direct sales for U.M.I. in the Baltimore and Wash-
ington areas.

LT. J.G. W. GORDON Ross completed the UNITAS
XXII exercise deployment with the U.S. Navy. He
participated in a six-month circumnavigation of South

America during which he was qualified as a surface
warfare officer and promoted to his present rank.

L. Scott SHELTON is an aide to Republican Con-
gressman Ed Forsythe, from New Jersey.

DONALD G. SMITH JR. is a third-year medical student
at the Medical College of Virginia.

GALEN TRUSSELL and wife, Cathy, recently relocated
to Washington, D.C., where he is working for the
public relations firm of John Adams Associates.

1979
MARRIAGE: JEFFREY W. CRABTREE and Theresa
Lee on June 27, 1981, in Fair Hope, Ala. Crabtree
was admitted to the Alabama Bar, passed the CPA
exam and is now a tax senior with Ernst and Whinney
in Mobile.

MARRIAGE: Davi L. HEILBERG and Holly Haseltine
on Nov. 22, 1981, in Alexandria, Va. Classmates in
attendance were Lynne Prymas, John Agostini, Jack
Eddy, Beau Dudley, Mike McLaughlin, and Stu Nib-
ley. Heilberg is an attorney in Harrisonburg, Va.

MARRIAGE: JOHN T. JESSEE, ’79L, and KATHLEEN
MaRIE FENTON, ’81L, on May 23, 1981, in Lee
Chapel. Members of the wedding included Philip
Hinerman, ’79L; Melissa Warner, ’81L; and, Sally
Stanfield, ’81L. He is an associate with the Roanoke
law firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker and
Thornton. She is an attorney in the legal department
of Norfolk and Western Railway Co.

MARRIAGE: J. RANDOLPH SACKS and Valentina M.
Krupa in Forestville, Md., on July 18, 1981. In the
wedding were Bob Rogers, ’79; Henry Hairston, ’79;
and, Robert Williams, ’78. Classmates attending were
Tom Morville, L. R. Buckner, Andy Fitzgerald, Steve
Jones, Paul Daugherty, Scott Swope; Jay Blumberg,
"80, and Eddie Mintz, ’80. The couple lives in Balti-
more where Sacks is a first-year student at the Univer-
sity of Baltimore Law School.

MARRIAGE: A. JEFFREY SOMERS and Beverly Ann
Harkins on July 26, 1980. After a year and a half as
an investigator for the State of Connecticut, Somers
enrolled at the Western New England College Law
School in August 1981. They live in Springfield,
Mass.

DouGtas H. Apams has transferred to Duke Univer-
sity School of Medicine as a second-year student. He

-had been studying medicine at the Universite Catho-

lique de Lille, France.

MICHAEL W. BusBEy is an account representative for
Wallace Computer Services in Denver. He had been
with the firm’s Chicago office until April 1981.

J. LANDERS CARNAL earned his M.B.A. at Washing-
ton University in St. Louis. He now works for Cen-
terre Bank there.

JOHN L. CONNOLLY is pursuing an M.B.A. degree at

De

Tulane University in New Orleans, La.

NEIL J. COTE won second prize in the 1981 New
England Associated Press sportswriting contest for
his feature article on the Montreal Canadiens hockey
team. He is a reporter and columnist for The Ports-
mouth Herald in Portsmouth, N.H.

CHARLES J. FaDus has been appointed controller of
Rapidforma Del Caribe, Inc., in Bayamon, Puerto
Rico. He lives in Dorado Del Mar.

FERDINAND B. HARRINGTON III is studying for his
master’s degree in computer science at Virginia
Commonwealth University in Richmond.

JOHN S. Hystop III is an aeronautical engineer in the
sounding rocket program at the NASA Flight Center
in Wallops Island, Va. He lives in Exmore.

lst LT. FREEMAN E. JongEs is stationed at Ft. Hood,
Texas, as a battalion heavy mortar platoon leader and
executive officer of a mechanized infantry company.
In March 1982, he will be assigned to the Joint
Security Force in Korea.

C. STEPHEN JONES JR. and John A. Cocklereece Jr.,
"76, ’79L, competed in the Sixth Annual Marine
Corps Marathon in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 1,
1981. While there, they stayed with Ken Ruscio, ’76.

STEPHEN Y. McGEHEE joined the utilities group for
the energy and utilities division of the First National
Bank of Boston in March 1981. In October he was
promoted to loan officer and assigned a southern
States territory.

T1M J. MANSON III has been transferred to Southern
California by the carpet yarn division of Standard-
Coosa-Thatcher, Co., to sell yarn for the Palomar
Mills division in Buena Park.

M. PorTER Meapors III is a second-year student at
the University of Mississippi School of Medicine in
Jackson. :

WILLIAM R. MEYER was elected president of the
third-year class at the University of Virginia Medical
School. He ran successfully in the Marine Corps
Marathon in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 1, 1981.

DONALD P. NoBLe will graduate from the University
of Texas School of Law in May and become an
associate with the San Antonio law firm of Mc-
Camish, Ingram, Martin and Brown.

Barry J. PLUNKETT III is assistant counsel to the
U.S. Navy Comptroller at the Pentagon.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK is an account officer with the
real estate division of Chemical Bank in New York.

GLEN C. STANFORD is enrolled in the M.B.A. pro-
gram at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass. He also
was a gymnastic cheerleader for the New England
Patriots football team. Stanford works as'a fire loss

4]

Class Notes

prevention consultant for Factory Mutual Engineer-
ing.

WILL HILL TANKERSLEY JR. holds the rank of first

lieutenant in the U.S. Army’s 10th Special Forces.

Group stationed in Bad Tolz, Germany. He graduated
with honors from the Basic Infantry Officer Course
and was on the Commandant’s list of top 20 percent
of the Special Forces Officer course and served 16
months as Mechanized Infantry Platoon Leader at
Fort Stewart, Ga., before being assigned to Germany.

Lr. Mark S. TRAVERS is a company executive officer
in the 4th battalion of the 54th Infantry Division. His
unit participated in several exercises in the fall and is
scheduled to attend the National Training Center at
Fort Irwin, Calif., in March and April.

1980

MARRIAGE: Martin F. Bowers and Anne Biggart
on June 20, 1981, in Darien, Conn. Classmates in the
wedding were Andrew Bodenstab, Thomas Mann,
Michael Powell, and David West while Raymond
Nugent and Christopher Burnham were guests.
Bowers is an account executive with Merrill Lynch in
Philadelphia. They live in Rosemont, Pa.

MARRIAGE: SAMUEL SANDERS IV and Sally Ford
Bartlett on June 6, 1981. They live in New Orleans.

MARRIAGE: CHARLES V. TERRY and Susan W. Pitt
on Sept. 19, 1981, in Richmond. James H. Flippen
Jr., ’79, and Michael J. Monaghan, ’80, were
groomsmen. They live in Portsmouth, Va., where
Terry attends the Eastern Virginia Medical School.

G. DEWEY ARNOLD III transferred from the audit
department to the tax department of Price Waterhouse
in Philadelphia on Feb. 8, 1982.

HAMILTON C. Davis III is a second-year M.B.A.
student in finance at Duke University.

ANGUS E. FINNEY is a second-year student at the
University of Baltimore School of Law, which he
attends full time. He is also assistant manager of
Morgan and Millard Restaurant in Roland Park, Md.

LAWRENCE K. GUMPRICH works for A. M. Pullen
and Co., certified public accountants in Richmond.
He has passed two parts of the CPA exam and took
the other two parts in November 1981.

First National Bank of South Carolina has transferred
JOHN C. HAMILTON from Columbia to Camden, S.C.,
to serve as an assistant branch manager.

STEWART D. JACKSON is now a CPA employed by
Price Waterhouse in Chicago.

R. Mark LEwiIs is working on his master’s degree in
counseling at Colgate University. He is also a psy-
chiatric caseworker at Crouse Irving Memorial Hos-
pital in Syracuse, N. Y., where he performs emergency
psychiatric evaluations.

42

FRANK D. MACDONALD is a tax accountant with
Columbia Gas Transmission Co. in Charleston,
W.Va. He is also a member of the Charleston Boat
Club.

CaRL W. MILLER II completed the administrative
training program for the oil well division of U.S.
Steel Corp. He is now working in the eastern region
office in Columbus, Ohio.

J. KELLY RYAN is a second-year law student at the
University of Houston.

C. BAYARD STEELE is head of the bureau at Ruskin,
Fla., for the Tampa Times newspaper.

CHARLES B. STROME III is news editor and a com-
mentator for WVOX Radio in New Rochelle, N.Y.

THOMAS R. WALL IV is an account officer in the
corporate division of Chemical Bank in New York.

RICHARD S. WALLERSTEIN JR. is a second-year stu-
dent at the University of Richmond’s T. C. Williams
Schoof of Law.

F. EUGENE WILLIAMS JR. is a system’s programmer
for Blue Bird Body Co. in Fort Valley, Ga. He lives

in Macon.

BrucE D. WILMOT is a reporter, photographer, and

the sports editor for the Altavista Journal in Altavista,
Va.

SUSAN M. YODER is a law clerk for Judge Allen
Sharp of the U.S. District Court for northern Indiana.
She lives in Mishawaka, Ind.

1981

MARRIAGE: SAMUEL H. CaMPBELL IV and Carol
Upchurch on Oct. 10, 1981, in Montgomery, Ala.
Guests included classmates John Billmyre, Winston
Burks, Chris Gammon, Bill Brock, Tobie Sult,
George Irvine, Peter Eliades, and Jim Stanton, ’82.
The couple lives in Lookout Mountain, Tenn., while
Brown works in sales for the Chattanooga Bakery,
Inc., makers of the original Moon Pie.

MARRIAGE: JoHN W. B. NORTHINGTON and
Michele Denise Black on Aug. 15, 1981, in Midland,
Texas. In the wedding were Will Hodges, ’81; Drew
Pumphrey, ’81; Usher Winslett, ’82; Preston Moore,
°82; and, David Pace, ’79. Many alumni and students
were guests. The couple lives in Midland where
Northington is an independent petroleum landman
dealing in oil and gas properties.

BIRTH: Lt. and Mrs. Davip G. WEAVER, a son,
David Gerard Jr., on Jan. 18, 1982, in Newport, R.I.
Weaver is a U.S. Navy JAG Corps officer stationed
in Newport. They live in Portsmouth, R.I.

 

Keep Us Up To Date

correct address.

Name

Be a reporter for Washington and Lee. Use the space below to send us news of your-
self so that we can publish it in these columns and keep your file current. And do we
have your correct address? Each address change that comes to the alumni office from
the post office costs 25 cents. Please help us avoid this expense by sending us your

Class

 

 

Address

City, State, Zip

 

News Item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Capt. MALINDA E. DUNN is doing trial work with
the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps. She
is stationed in Korea with the Second Infantry Divi-
sion.

BENNETT N. EASTON is a management trainee at
Houston (Texas) City Bank.

Lt. JOHN J. Fox III is attending helicopter flight
school at the U.S. Army Aviation Center, Ft. Rucker,
Ala.

JAMES H. GORDON III is assistant manager of the
Dusseldorf Hilton International Hotel in Dusseldorf,
West Germany.

A. WILLIAM MACKIE is in his first year of law school
at Duke University.

KENNETH P. Moran works for Goldberg Securities
on the floor of the Chicago Board Options Exchange.

WILLIAM H. Morris became president of the Eastside
Development Corp. on Jan. 15, 1982. He lives in
Jacksonville, Fla.

BisHop B. Norris works for Vawter, Kennedy and
Kennedy, a Memphis public accounting firm that
specializes in car dealerships.

EDWIN S. RYAN Jr. is a landman for Steele and
Associates in Arkansas and Mississippi. He lives in
Ft. Worth, Texas.

TRACY H. SAVAGE is associate director of develop-
ment and a teacher of music theory and composition
at Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.

MICHAEL C. SMITH attends the University of Texas
Business School.

NANCY J. SPRITZER lives in Daleville, Va., and is an
associate with the Roanoke law firm of Woods,
Rogers, Muse, Walker and Thornton.

ScoTT T. STAFFORD is a sales representative in the
Washington area for Boyle-Midway, a division of
American Home Products.

MARK M. SuBER is working at the Great Western
Spirit Co. in Aspen, Colo. He plans to attend graduate
school in the future.

MakkK A. WILLIAMS is an associate with the Roanoke
law firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker and
Thornton.

WARREN W. WooprING works for Provident Na-
tional Bank in Philadelphia. He lives in Wayne, Pa.

KATHLEEN MARIE FENTON (See 1979, JOHN T.
JESSEE. )

MICHAEL L. UNTI (See 1972.)

Be

 

In Memoriam

 

1910
FREDERICK CARLYLE JAMES, a retired division engi-
neer with Norfolk and Western Railroad Co. of Roa-
noke, Va., died Jan. 13, 1982. He had become asso-
ciated with Norfolk and Western in 1913. He was a
veteran of World War I.

1912

ROBERT RICHARD WITT of San Antonio, Tex., a
former Lexington resident, died Jan. 18, 1982. Witt
was a very successful businessman and a civic leader
in San Antonio. He first went to San Antonio in 1913
and joined a building supply firm. Later, he organized
a wholesale building supply firm, Builders Supply
Co., of which he became president in 1929 and chair-
man of the board in 1951. He retired in 1960. Witt
was elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary lead-
ership fraternity, by Washington and Lee in 1961 and
was awarded an honorary degree by W&L in 1978.
He was a trustee of Trinity University in San Antonio
and was awarded a doctor of humane letters degree by
Trinity in 1951. A building at the Trinity College was
named for him. Witt was also a director of Alamo
National Bank, a trustee of the Southwest Research
Institute, and a founding director of the community
chest of San Antonio. He had also been president of
the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce and the San
Antonio Presbyterian Foundation. In 1966 he was
named outstanding citizen of San Antonio by the
Exchange Club. Witt and members of his family have
been donors to the restoration of the Stonewall Jackson
House in Lexington.

1914

JOEL JOSHUA HALBERT, who in 1975 was honored by
the city of Jackson, Miss., by the dedication of the
Josh Halbert Garden, died in December 1981. Halbert
had worked for the city of Jackson more than 40
years. He was city engineer and director of public
works. His accomplishments included designing and
building several parks, the Municipal Airport, and
the Jackson Zoological Park. He was perhaps best
known by the citizens of Jackson for his active par-
ticipation in establishing the Municipal Art Gallery.
He had retired from city service in 1968.

1921

JAMES Roy STuART, retired president and chairman

of the board of the Somerset Canning Corp., of

Somerset, Pa., died Jan. 13, 1982, at his home in
Great Falls, Va. Earlier in his career, Stuart had been
an engineer with Congoleum-Nairn, Inc., from 1924
to 1929 and an engineer with B. F. Sriver from 1924
to 1937. In 1937 he organized the Somerset Canning
Corp. He was a former director of the Pennsylvania
Canner’s Association and a member of the American
Legion.

1922

Dr. HAROLD TOWNSEND GARARD, a Lewisburg, Pa.,
physician specializing in ophthalmology and otolary-
ngology, died Aug. 23, 1981.

RALPH STUART MCLEMORE, a partner in the public
accounting firm of McLemore & McLemore in
Macon, Ga., died Aug. 23, 1981.

1923

Dr. HERBERT LEONARD ELIAS, former chief of pedi-
atrics at South Nassau Communities Hospital in
Oceanside, Long Island, N.Y., died Dec. 26, 1981,
at the hospital. Dr. Elias, a 1927 graduate of the
Harvard Medical School, joined the hospital in 1931
and was appointed its first chief of pediatrics in 1940,
a post he held until 1968. His association with the
hospital continued until his retirement in 1980. Elias
was the first president of the Nassau Pediatrics
Society. He was also a former president of the New
York State Pediatrics Society and the Long Island
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatricians.

WILLIAM E. THOMPSON, who had been active in the
tobacco industry, died in Whiteville, N.C., in Sep-
tember 1980. For many years, Thompson was with
Ligget and Myers. After leaving Ligget and Myers,
he spent more than 30 years as an independent tobacco
dealer.

1924

PEMBROKE DECATUR GWALTNEY III, retired chair-
man of the board of Gwaltney, Inc., a former Smith-
field town councilman, and past chairman of the Isle
of Wight County School Board, died Dec. 20, 1981,
in Smithfield, Va. Gwaltney served as secretary-
treasurer and purchasing agent for Gwaltney, Inc.,
before he became chairman of the board. He retired
from the treasurer’s office in 1967 and from the board
of directors in 1970. Earlier, he was president of the
Home Telephone Co. until 1947 and chairman of the
board of directors until 1964. From 1927 to 1965
Gwaltney was on the board of directors of the Bank of
Smithfield. He was also a vice president of the Smith-
field Water Co.

WILLIAM CULLEN ROBERTS, a prominent lawyer in
Alexandria, La., died Aug. 11, 1981. Roberts started
practicing law in Alexandria in 1926. He was amem-
ber of both the Alexandria Bar and Louisiana Bar
Associations. He served on the War Price and Ra-
tioning Board during World War II. Roberts was a
past president of the Atto Kapoo Area Boy Scouts of
America.

1927

WILLIAM MILES Pope, a long-time resident of Char-
lottesville, Va., died Jan. 2, 1982. He was a retired
vice president and trust officer of the National Bank
and Trust Co. Prior to World War II, Pope was
associated with Scott & Stringfellow, investment
bankers in Richmond, Va. He was a major in the
United States Air Corps during World War II. Follow-
ing his military service, he joined the National Bank

and Trust Co. in Charlottesville. :

43

In Memoriam

1929

THOMAS RODOLPH BROACH, long-time postmaster in
Putney, Ga., died Dec. 11, 1981.

WALTER ELIAS CONNELL JR. died Jan. 19, 1982, in
Bossier City, La., following a sudden illness. He was
a retired cotton and cattle farmer and had served on
the board of directors of the Farm Bureau and Federal
Land Bank.

1930

Tom CowAN ATWOOD, a former salesman with the
Carborundum Co. and a resident of St. Louis, Mo.,
died Aug. 9, 1981.

KENNETH LEONARD KEIL, a district manager with
Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co., died Dec. 25, 1981,
in Springfield, Ill. He had been associated with Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Co. for over 50 years. He was
a charter member of the Underwriters and a former
director of the Illinois State Association of Life Un-
derwriters. He was also a former president of the
Illinois Round Table.

1931

Dr. WILLIAM BRANDON CARRELL, retired chief of
staff of Texas Scottish Rite Hospital in Dallas, died
Nov. 21, 1981. Carrell joined the staff of Scottish
Rite in 1939 as a pediatric orthopedic surgeon. He
became assistant chief of staff in 1941. He helped
pioneer the treatment of children with neuro-muscular
diseases and is credited with perfecting many surgical
procedures for afflicted children. Carrell was a mem-
ber of the Dallas County Medical Society, Texas
Medical Society, Texas Orthopedic Association,
Southern and American Medical Associations, and
the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.

Dr. BURROUGHS REID HILL, a retired senior re-
searcher in the division of Neuro-sciences at the City
of Hope, a free non-sectarian Pilot Medical Center
specializing in research and treatment of catastrophic
disease in Durante, Calif., died Jan. 17, 1982. Per-
haps his major contribution was the discovery of a
new enzyme in human blood serum called lactic
dehydrogenase (LDH). Upon his retirement he and
Mrs. Hill made their home in Friday Harbor, Wash.
Mrs. Hill is author of the novel Hanta Yo which is a
study and history of the southwest and the folklore of
the American Indian. The book was dedicated to her
husband. Dr. Hill was a fellow of the American
Association of Advanced Science, a member of the
American Chemical Society, and the American
Association of Cancer Research.

WILBER OWEN, president of Occoquan Real Estate
and Insurance Corp., died Nov. 13, 1981, at his
home in Woodbridge, Va. In addition to being a real
estate broker, Owen was engaged in real estate ap-
praisal work, insurance, and banking. He was former
owner and president of Service Insurers. At the time
of his death he was on the board of directors of First
American Savings and Loan Association. He was a
former director and member of the Prince William

44

County Board of Realtors. He served with the U.S.
Army in both the European and Pacific theaters
during World War II.

1932

HENRY ALEXANDER SHERWOOD, former city clerk in
Largo, Fla., died Nov. 28, 1981. Formerly city clerk-
treasurer in East Aurora, N.Y., Sherwood moved to
Largo in 1971 and held the post of city clerk until
October 1975.

1934
SIDNEY HARRISON KELSEY, a prominent attorney in
Norfolk, Va., died Nov. 12, 1981. He was a partner
of the firm Kelsey & Kelsey. During World War II,
Kelsey was attached to the Amphibious Force Atlantic
Fleet and participated in the North African invasion.
He was a past president of the Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association, a Fellow of the International Academy
of Trial Lawyers, and a member of various other bar
associations and legal societies.

CLARENCE SENTER WORRELL, a partner in the law
firm of Bailey, Worrell, and Viers of Pineville,
W.Va., is now deceased.

1935

GRAHAM FISHBURNE PAINTER died Dec. 15, 1981, in
Charleston, W.Va. He was a retired management
analyst from the West Virginia Department of Em-
ployment Security.

1936

HUGH JOSEPH BONINO, a native of Phillipsburg, N.J.,
and for 44 years an executive in the chemical manu-
facturing business, died Dec. 4, 1981. Most recently,
he had been chairman of the Crown-Metro Co. in
Greenville, S.C. He was also chairman of the Alva
Company. While at Washington and Lee, Bonino
was a Southern Conference heavyweight wrestling
champion and was an All-Southern football player.
He was a member of the Poinsetta Club in Greenville,
S.C., the New York Athletic Club, and the Pine Tree
Golf Club in Florida.

1937

WILLIAM OSCAR IRVIN JR., a long-time resident and
merchant in Daingerfield, Texas, died June 25, 1981.

1938

S. THOMAS MaRrTIN, a prominent lawyer with Martin,
Taylor, Fralin, and Freeman in Lynchburg, Va., died
Jan. 13, 1982. Martin had been a member of the
House of Delegates in the Virginia Legislature in
1944 and 1946. He was a commissioner of accounts
for the Lynchburg Circuit Court, a member of the
Lynchburg, Virginia, and American Bar Associations,
and a member of the Lynchburg Community Council.
He was a deacon and treasurer of the First Presbyterian
Church.

FRED Murray Moran, whose family owned and

operated the Thunderbolt roller coaster at Coney Is-
land for more than 50 years, died Jan. 8, 1982, at the
Veterans Hospital in Brooklyn. Moran’s home and
small office were situated under the roller coaster’s
tracks and trembled as the cars rolled overhead. His
father, the late George H. Moran, had owned the
Thunderbolt since it was built in 1925. Fred Moran
took over as owner in 1965. The ride, which will
continue to run, remains at its original location on a
street called the Bowery in the amusement section of
Coney Island. Moran was active in community
affairs. He was former president of the Young Men’s
and Young Women’s Hebrew Association in Coney
Island and former president of the Coney Island
Chamber of Commerce.

1942

JOHN LYLE CAMPBELL JR., a native of Lexington,
Va., died Jan. 21, 1982, in Dover, Del. He was the
fourth member of his family with the same name to
attend Washington and Lee University over a span of
four generations. During World War II, Campbell
served as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. He was
a member of the Rockbridge County Bar Association
during the 1950s and served for several years as trial
justice for the county. He moved to Dover, Del., in
1960 and retired in 1981 after serving as a probation
officer for the State of Delaware.

1949

CHARLES WILLIAM ALE, an attorney, died Dec. 11,
1981. He lived in Louisa, Va.

1952

BENNO MARCUSE FORMAN, a former Roanoke, Va.,
businessman who became a nationally recognized
authority on American furniture and decorative arts,
died Jan. 24, 1982, in Newark, Del. Before he left
Roanoke in 1966 to accept a Winterthur Fellowship
for study of early American culture at the University
of Delaware, Forman was secretary-treasurer of For-
man Sons, a dress shop in Roanoke. Forman was a
founder and chairman of the Fine Arts Festival and
was chairman of the cinema and special events com-
mittees of the Fine Arts Center. He was a free-lance
drama and music critic and taught courses in music
appreciation and photography at the Roanoke Center.
After earning his master’s degree from the University
of Delaware in 1968, Forman became a research
fellow and teaching associate at the Henry Francis du
Pont Winterthur Museum and an adjunct assistant
professor of art history at the University of Delaware.
Forman was an authority on American decorative arts
of the 17th- and 18th-centuries and received a Ford
Foundation grant for publication of a catalog of the
Winterthur Museum’s collection of furniture of that
period. Forman also lectured at the Smithsonian In-
stitution, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and other
universities and institutions around the country.

1982

DOUGLAS W. PINDER, who was living in Greenville,
N.C., died Nov. 21, 1981.

 

 

Spring Athletic Schedule

 

 

May
May

 

LACROSSE

2—Duke

7—Mt. Washington Club
13—Navy
|’7—Lafayette
20—N.C. State
24— Delaware
27—Towson State
13—William & Mary
18—Virginia
24—North Carolina

1—Syracuse

5S—Roanoke

8—Hofstra
15—U.M.B.C.

TRACK & FIELD

13—Davidson
20—Richmond Relays

Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME

Away
Away

26—Newport News Appr., Maryville,

Emory & Henry
30—Eastern Mennonite,
Raonoke, Radford
1’7—Mt. St. Mary’s Relays
23—Lynchburg, Roanoke,
Eastern Mennonite
1—O.D.A.C. Championships
4— Bridgewater

TENNIS

12—Calif. St. (Pa.).
13—U. of Rochester
14_U. of Charleston
16—Millersville St. (Pa.)
17—U. of Richmond
20—Davidson

21—Old Dominion
22—V.M.I. —
23—Greensboro
24—Emory & Henry
26—Va. Commonwealth
28—Harvard
29—George Mason
31—James Madison
12—Emory

13—U. of Central Florida
14—Rollins

HOME

HOME
Away

Away
HOME
Away

HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away

Away

Away

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May
May

 

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

16—Eckerd
1’7—Stetson
20—Virginia Tech
21—Hampden-Sydney
23—Lynchburg
25——William & Mary
26—U. of Virginia
30-

1—O.D.A.C. Championships -

4—Radford

BASEBALL

12—West Virginia Tech
13—West Virginia Tech
14—Calif. St. (Pa.)
1’7—Longwood
18—V.M.I.
20—Emory & Henry
23—Bridgewater
24—Lock Haven State
25—Randolph-Macon
27—Duke
30—Randolph-Macon
31—Colgate
13—Hampden-Sydney
15—Eastern Mennonite
1’7—Maryville
20—Lynchburg
21—Bridgewater
25—William & Mary
27—Lynchburg
28—Longwood
1—O.D.A.C. Tournament
3—V.M.I.
4—Newport News App.
8—Christopher Newport

GOLF

8-9—NCAA Division III,
District III Tournament

18-19—Spotswood,
James Madison Invitational

25—Bridgewater, Shepherd

Apr. 16-17—Virginia Tech
Apr. 26-27—O.D.A.C. Championships
4—Randolph-Macon, Bridgewater Away

May

Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away

HOME
Away

HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
HOME
T.B.A.
Away
HOME
Away

Away

Away
HOME
Away
Away

 

 

-:
The Alumni Magazine of

| Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY At Lexington, Virginia 24450
(USPS 667-040)

And Additional. Mailiz« Offices
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww |

CL,

037556

T BALFOUR
ON RD

RICHMOND VA

232e9

 
 

MR DANIEL
211 RALST

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND W&L’S ANNUAL SPRING

CLASS REUNIONS

HONORING THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES OF 1932,

1937, 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, AND
THE FIVE STAR GENERALS (AII classes before 1932)

MAY 6, 7, and 8, 1982

Motel reservation forms were mailed to these alumni in March.
If you did not receive yours, write or call the Alumni Office,

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., 24450.
Phone (703) 463-9111, Ext. 214.

 

