the alumni magazine of washington and lee university JULY 1982

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 57, Number 4, July 1982

William C. Washburn, 740 .............. 0. ccc cece cece eee eens Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .....................5. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ................ccce cece eee ees Associate Editor
Robert Fure ...............eeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter 0.0.0.0... cece eee ce eee e eee neces Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73 ..............c ccc e cece neces Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Commencement 1982 .............. ccc eee e eee eee eens eens 1
The Kaplans: Like Son, Like Father .................... 4
The Chapmans: Son-Mother Lawyers ..............-.--. 6
Graduating Sons and Daughters .................--.-eeee 8
Development Celebration ................::eeeeeeee eee eees 9
Spring Reunions 1982 ..............cececeeeneeeeeeeeeeeees 12
W&L’s Alderson Prison Program ..............:::+e0ee- 16
Gazette :.......Uisciskces aes se 20
The Shell Game: Armadillo ..................c cece eens 26
Chapter NewS. .........-..cccceccccsceetsscneeseeeseeestenees 28
Class Notes .........-cccssccnctesescceeccsesosesusuetensecge™ 31
In Memoriam ............... ee eeeee eens cece eee eeeeneeeenees 42

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL LADD III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LaTTurRE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, 756, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OwEN H. HARPER, 759, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
G. RUSSELL LADD, ’57, Mobile, Ala.

J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, °53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NorMAN Jr., 756, Crossett, Ark.
RicE M. TILLey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

e

ON THE COVER: Washington and Lee’s All-America
defensive lineman Mike Pressler made sure the Generals’
achievements on the gridiron last fall were not forgotten.
Pressler and other varsity football players among the
Class of 1982 wore signs on the backs of their robes
during commencement exercises citing their 1981 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championship. Pho-
tograph by Charles W. Mason, °83.

 

 

 

President Huntley presents his traditional ‘‘Commencement Remarks’’ at graduation ceremonies.

Members of the C lass of 1982 stand to applaud President Huntley s remarks.

 

jor
Huntley

Three Awarded
Honorary Degrees;
Two Professors
Retiring

Standing ovations, once the rarest sign of
an audience’s appreciation, seem to have
become the rule than the exception these
days—except, perhaps, for commencement
speeches where standing ovations remain an
exception.

So it was particularly meaningful that
those in attendance at Washington and Lee’s
undergraduate commencement exercises on
June 3—the graduates, their families and
friends, the University faculty and
administration, and everyone else—stood
and applauded for several minutes when
President Robert E. R. Huntley concluded
his annual Commencement remarks.

For Huntley, it was the 1S5th—and last—
time that he would stand before a class of
graduates as president of the University. He
announced in February that he will retire at
the end of 1982, before another class
marches down the Colonnade.

The standing ovation Huntley received
was as much an expression of appreciation of
and gratitude for the 14 previous times he

The honorary degree recipients for 1982 were (from left) Katherine Womeldorf Paterson of Norfolk, Va.;

 

Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan Jr., ’61, of New York City; and, Everett Tucker Jr., ’34, of Little Rock, Ark.

had stood in that same spot as it was for his
remarks on this occasion.

Although some might have been tempted
to use the opportunity to offer a parting
message of some sort, Huntley
characteristically declined to use it as such.

‘*A few of my friends have asked me
whether I intended to make a kind of
valedictory today,’’ Huntley told the
graduates near the end of his remarks. “‘I do
not so intend. This is your day, not mine.”’

In an unmistakeable way, though, the
day was Huntley’s, too. And, as usual, he
did not disappoint the graduates with this
15th edition of his remarks to them.

Huntley encouraged the graduates to
strive for what he called the ‘‘margin of
surprise.”’

Said Huntley: [My father] told me—and
impressed upon me—that if one applies
himself diligently and with conviction to the
task at hand, even when the end is not in
sight, one will experience a ‘margin of
Surprise’—an unexpected and satisfying
result. I have not always been able to follow
that advice . . . but when I have, it has
worked. The margin of surprise has been
there, the outcome of a day’s work—not
always immediately and always
unexpectedly—the outcome of the
accumulation of each day.”’

During his remarks Huntley quoted
extensively from an essay by Sir William
Osler entitled ‘“‘A Way of Life.’’ He
commended to the graduates Osler’s ‘‘simple
and profound”’ philosophy—a philosophy of
living each day for itself.

Huntley concluded by telling the
graduates: ‘‘Once in a while, go to the
mountain top (as Osler put it) and take stock
in yourself, your beliefs, and inquire into

2

your expectation of yourself. Demand a
satisfying answer. Stay for a little while, but
not too long, and do not return very often.
When you come down, live your daily life
with the real conviction that the goodness of
each day is sufficient; if you do, you will
have your margin of surprise.”’

Prior to Huntley’s remarks, the
University conferred bachelors degrees upon
278 graduates and honorary degrees upon
two distinguished alumni and the daughter of
a third distinguished alumnus.

The honorary degree recipients were:
Katherine Womeldorf Paterson of Norfolk,
Va., a prize-winning author of novels for
children and young adults and the daughter
of Rev. George Raymond Womeldorf, a
1917 graduate of the University; Everett
Tucker Jr., ’34, the founder and president of
the Industrial Development Company of
Little Rock, Ark., and a moving force
behind the development of the Little Rock
area; and, Dr. E. Darracott Vaughan Jr., ’61,
the James J. Colt Professor of Urology at
Cornell University Medical Center in New
York City and the attending urologist-in-
chief at the New York Hospital.

Edmund Perry of Birmingham, Ala., was
the valedictorian of the Class of 1982. He
had a cumulative grade-point average of
3.939 on W&L’s 4.0 scale.

In addition to Huntley’s remarks,
graduating senior Eric T. Myers of
Tallahassee, Fla., president of the student
body, presented remarks on behalf of the
graduates.

Several hours before the commencement
exercises Maj. Gen. William J. McCaddin,
adjutant general of the Commonwealth of
Virginia, spoke at a commissioning
ceremony for Washington and Lee’s Army

 

 

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., dean of the School of Law,
presides over the law school’s commencement
exercises.

ROTC cadets. Sixteen new officers were
commissioned in the ceremony.

A day earlier, the graduates had heard
Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion
at W&L, discuss ‘‘fides’’ in the traditional
baccalaureate sermon.

First discussing “‘fides’’ or faith as a
phenomenon, Hodges talked about the
specific faiths of Washington and Lee and
how those faiths relate to the supreme faith—
faith in God.

Referring to the University’s Honor
Code, Hodges said that it ‘‘is precisely
because people are ends in themselves, not
means to your own ends, that you do not lie
to them, cheat them, or steal from them. It is
also because people matter that we speak to
them, acknowledge their presence. . . . That
is one of our faiths. People count. . . .
People matter because God endows them
with their high status. That is one of the
special faiths that shape us.”’

The second faith, said Hodges, involves
the pursuit of knowledge and the belief that
“‘knowledge is never merely an end in itself.
Knowledge is useful and must be used as an
essential means to meet human needs.’’

Added Hodges: ‘‘In biblical faith and at
Washington and Lee knowledge is always an
end but never only that. Why? Because
people count.”’

LAW COMMENCEMENT

Undergraduate commencement exercises
were preceded by the School of Law’s
graduation on May 22. There were 107 juris
doctor degrees awarded.

Huntley told the law graduates that they
are ‘‘privileged persons,’’ adding that
‘privileged means you have a larger measure
of control over your destinies than do most.

You have better opportunities than most.
You have a better understanding of the world
around you and what has gone before than
most.

‘*You are also, because of your
privileged status, obligated persons,’’ he
continued. ‘‘Especially as lawyers, your
obligations and your opportunities for service
to others and to our American experience
will be great.’’

Huntley said the graduates’ task is not,
‘‘as some would have it, as brokers of power
or negotiators of advantage.’’

Power, he said, ‘‘is a fact. But in a
democracy, it is no substitute for justice.
Your task is, then, truly a cosmic one. It is
to demonstrate the reality of justice in the
operation of the law.”’

 

 

Turner, Williams
retire from teaching

Two senior professors who have taught at
Washington and Lee University for a
combined total of 73 years retired at the end
of the current academic year.

Charles W. Turner, who taught history at
W&L from 1946, and Charles W. Williams,
who taught mathematics from 1937 to 1939
and then from 1948 to the present, both have
been designated professors emeriti by the
University’s Board of Trustees.

Turner and Williams were formally
recognized during the University’s
undergraduate commencement exercises.

Turner is a 1937 graduate of the
University of Richmond. He received a
master’s degree from the University of North
Carolina and a Ph.D. from the University of
Minnesota.

A native of Fredericks Hall in Louisa
County, Virginia, Turner has taught courses
in general American history, the history of
the American frontier, the history of
Portuguese and Spanish colonial South
America, and general Latin American
history.

Chief among Turner’s research interests
has been the history of Virginia railroads. He
is the author of a full-length book entitled
Chessie’s Road. His other books include My
Dear Emma and Stories of Ole Lexington.

Additionally, Turner has written more
than 50 articles in the field of economic
history and dealing with such topics as
agricultural development and immigration.

Turner has served as historian, librarian,
and genealogist for the Rockbridge Historical
Society and has edited and published
annotated versions of the letters of a large
number of Civil War-era Rockbridge County
residents.

He has served on the Virginia Fulbright

 

Committee and the National Fulbright
Selection Committee.

Turner was honored earlier this year by
the establishment of an endowed scholarship
in his name.

In April, Turner was presented the
second annual William Webb Pusey III
Award for his outstanding service and
dedication to Washington and Lee. At the
Same time he was one of six recipients of
annual awards presented by the Ring-tum
Phi, the student newspaper at W&L.

Williams is a native of Augusta, Ky. He
received a bachelor’s degree from Harvard, a
master’s degree from the University of
Maryland, and a Ph.D. from the University of
Virginia.

In 1937, Williams joined the

Charles W. Williams ( center) was recognized during the co

 

   

BS

mmencement exercises.

mathematics faculty at Washington and Lee
as an instructor. He left in 1939 to take a
similar position at Armstrong Junior College
in Savannah, Ga. After holding positions as
an instructor at both the University of North
Carolina and North Carolina State, Williams
returned to Washington and Lee in 1948.

Williams has had articles published in
Proceedings of the American Mathematical
Society and Computer Application Service.

He has conducted research at the
University of Oklahoma on a grant from the
National Science Foundation and taught at a
National Science Foundation In-Service
Mathematics Institute in Roanoke, Va.

Williams has been a visiting summer
professor at both the University of Virginia
and Virginia Military Institute.

The Kaplans:
Like Son,
Like Father

A casual dinner-table conversation
resulted in one of the more unusual stories in
Washington and Lee’s history this June when
Dr. Benjamin Kaplan and his son, Jim,
received their bachelors degrees together.

The story actually begins in September of
1941. That is when Ben Kaplan first arrived
in Lexington, following the footsteps of his
four brothers, all of whom had earned W&L
degrees before him.

Had nothing out of the ordinary
intervened, Ben would have received his
degree in 1945. Something did intervene,
however. World War II.

‘*Like so many other students during that
era, the war altered my college studies
considerably,’’ explained the elder Kaplan,
who had begun to pursue the premed
curriculum at W&L. ‘‘We really rushed
through schools in those days. We missed a
lot.”’

One thing Kaplan missed was English
151-152, a course in the history of English
literature that was required for graduation.

‘‘T went to classes here at W&L from
1941 until the summer of 1943, doubling up
on a lot of classes in order to get through
because of the Navy’s V-12 program,’’ he
explained. **In 1944, I was accepted at the
University of Louisville’s medical school. In
those days you didn’t have to have a
bachelor’s degree to get into med school.”’

And Kaplan didn’t have his.

‘‘T thought several different times about
getting the requirements satisfied. I even was
enrolled at a junior college in Florida when I
was in the Navy,”’ he said.

Before long, though, Dr. Kaplan was
immersed in his work. He established a
cardiology practice in Chicago and became a

The Kaplans—Benjamin (left) and Jim—prepare to
march together at commencement.

W&L’s Kaplan Alumni Chapter: (from the bottom
step) Joseph, ’28; Murrell, ’30; Robert, ’33;
Martin, ’36; Benjamin, ’45; and, James, ’82.

4

member of the teaching faculty at
Northwestern University’s medical school.
For 35 years or so, English 151-152 was the
farthest thing from Ben Kaplan’s mind.

After that 35-year intermission, the story
quite innocently took a dramatic turn around
Christmas, 1980, when Jim Kaplan came
home for the holidays from W&L where he
was a sophomore in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

‘We were having dinner at home one
evening when I casually mentioned to Dad
that he ought to consider going back and
getting his bachelor’s degree,’’ recalled Jim,
who was co-captain of the Generals’ varsity
golf team this past spring.

‘*T just said it out of the blue. I wasn’t
trying to push him or anything like that. But

 

Mom is always trying to get us away from
the football games on TV.”’

Once the subject was broached, Ben
Kaplan pursued the idea by writing to
University officials and inquiring about his
Status.

The result was that Ben Kaplan was
enrolled in a specially-designed English
course under Dr. Sidney Coulling, head of
the department of English. What made the
course special, in addition to the student
enrolled in it, was that it lopped off the last
40 years of English literature.

‘*What I attempted to do,’’ explained
Coulling, ‘‘was to organize the course so that
it would be as close to the course Dr. Kaplan
would have taken here in the 1940s as it
would possibly be.”’

‘‘My course went up through Matthew
Arnold,’’ added Kaplan. ‘‘That’s where it
ended in my day.”’

Dr. Coulling devised a syllabus with
appropriate reading assignments. And, with
that syllabus in hand, Dr. Kaplan stepped
back in time and became an undergraduate
again.

It wasn’t easy, either.

‘‘T must say I worked very hard,’’ Ben
Kaplan said. “‘In medicine, I can read the
materials and readily identify what I’m
reading with a patient. This reading was
entirely different. It involved abstractions
and required a lot of patience and
perseverance. ’’

For one thing, Kaplan had to exhibit a
great deal of perseverance simply to come

 

 

home from long days at the office, the
hospital, or the classroom and sit down with
Norton’s Anthology.

‘‘T admire him a great deal just for that,”’
said Coulling. ‘‘I have often asked myself if
I were in a similar situation whether I could
have exhibited the same enthusiasm and
drive that Dr. Kaplan exhibited.”’

Early on, Ben Kaplan discovered that he
would require some assistance along the
way. He received considerable tutorial help
from a Northwestern doctoral candidate. He
supplemented his reading by going to the
library and obtaining recordings of some of
the literature. ‘‘That made a world of
difference,’’ Kaplan said. ‘‘I got a much
better feeling for what the writers were trying
to say.”’

Kaplan went so far as to cut out color
paper figures so that he could keep the
characters straight in Chaucer’s Canterbury
Tales.

‘‘I saw the Chaucer figures and
laughed,’’ said Jim. ‘‘But that’s typical.
When Dad sets out to do something, he does
it.”’

‘‘T received a great deal of
encouragement and support from Jim and
from my wife and daughter, both of whom
were English majors,’’ Dr. Kaplan
explained.

And along the way, he gained greater
appreciation than he ever thought he
would—or could—for the literature he was
reading. Most of it, at least.

‘*T couldn’t stand John Donne,’’ Dr.
Kaplan confessed. ‘‘And reading Edmund
Spenser was like pulling teeth. The first time
I read a Shakespeare sonnet, I was lost. My
wife will attest to the fact that I did lots of
yelling and screaming about not being able to
understand some of those things.

‘‘But eventually I discovered what
Shakespeare’s sonnets were all about and
began to appreciate them. And I loved
Wordsworth and Swift and Tennyson and
Chaucer. My favorite was Ruskin.

‘*You know, it’s not a bad idea to read
these things at my stage of the game. I’ve
experienced a lot of things, a lot more than |
would have experienced had I read the
material as a college sophomore. It gave me
a new perspective. And it made me want to
keep reading.”’

Coulling agreed that Kaplan’s
background provided him with an unusual
perspective on the material.

‘‘The maturity of his responses was
particularly evident,’’ said Coulling. ‘‘It was
interesting from my point of view to see the
difference in his response to these works
from the responses of college students. His
reaction to the doctor in Canterbury Tales
was particularly interesting.’’

Coulling created two examinations to test
Kaplan’s grasp of the material. And Kaplan
aced both exams! His two A’s in English 151-
152 meant Kaplan received his degree magna
cum laude. And the fact that he already has a
medical degree meant Kaplan was the only
member of the Class of 1982 wearing a green
hood with his cap and gown during the
ceremonies.

‘‘T was very happy and very proud to
have Dad graduate with me,’’ said Jim.

So were all the Kaplans. In addition to
the immediate family, all four of Kaplan’s
brothers—Joseph, ’28; Murrell, ’30; Robert,
33; and, Martin, ’36—were in attendance.

‘*This was Jim’s commencement,’’ Dr.
Kaplan explained. ‘‘I didn’t want to detract
from that. I came back to pick up my
diploma. Jim is the one who was graduated
today.’’

The Chapmans

A Mother and Son Receive Law Degrees Together

Christine Chapman, the mother of five
children and a 1982 graduate of the
Washington and Lee School of Law, offers a
bit of advice for parents contemplating law
school.

Says Mrs. Chapman: “‘If you have to be
both a law student and a parent, the best way
is to take your oldest son along with you.”’

Mrs. Chapman knows whereof she
speaks. When she marched up to receive her
diploma in May, her son, James Chapman
IV, was but a few short steps behind her as
the Chapmans became the first mother-son
combination ever to receive their juris doctor
degrees together from the School of Law.

In truth, the Chapmans’ presence in the
law school Class of 1982 was a pure
coincidence—but a happy one, too.

Mrs. Chapman started her studies late in
life. She received her bachelor’s degree from
Fitchburg State in 1978 when the fifth of her
five children was still in junior high school.

Meantime, her eldest son, Jim, was
receiving his bachelor’s degree from Virginia
Tech the same year.

Both planned careers in law, and both
had been looking at a number of law schools.
Independently, they both chose W&L.

‘‘It was,’’ explained Jim, ‘a little bit of
a surprise when I told Mom I was coming to
W&L and she told me she was coming here
too.”’

The two Chapmans never even
considered that their presence in the same
law school class would be awkward for
them.

‘*Actually, it seemed rather natural for
me since I’d had classes with my children in
the past,’’ said Mrs. Chapman. ‘‘Jim and I
had one class together at Fitchburg State
before he transferred to Virginia Tech. And I
had a class with one of my daughters there,
too.

‘*T didn’t envision any problems in law
school.’’

In fact, added Jim, the arrangement was
more advantageous than it was awkward,
especially when it came to finding a
roommate with whom to share the trials and
tribulations of the first year in law school.
Who better than Mom?

‘‘Mom and I lived together our first
year,’’ said Jim. ‘‘Having a roommate all
lined up made things easy. I thought it was

6

 

Mrs. James Chapman (left) is followed to the podium by her son, James L. Chapman IV, (right) during the
law school commencement.

particularly advantageous for me to go to
school with my mother.

‘*That first year is a traumatic
experience, so it’s nice to have somebody to
lean on, especially if it’s someone you’re
close to.”’

‘“Gee,’’ said Mrs. chapman, ‘‘and here I
thought I was leaning on him the first year.’’

Whoever was leaning on whomever, the
arrangement worked.

‘*T had very grave doubts about whether I
wanted all this pain several times during that

first year,’’ Mrs. Chapman explained. ‘‘Jim
kept encouraging me to stay.”’

‘*And vice versa,’”’ added Jim. ‘‘We did
a lot of commiserating.’”’

Meantime, the Chapmans’ relationship
was not even an issue among their classmates
that first year.

‘*You’d be surprised,’’ said Jim. ‘‘For
the longest period of time, nobody knew
Mom and I were related. We had come from
different schools. Chapman is a fairly
common name. It didn’t really register on

people.

‘‘And the people who did know, their
reaction varied from ‘Oh, that’s wonderful!’
to ‘That’s really amazing!’ ”’

Wonderful? Maybe. Amazing? Mrs.
Chapman thinks not.

‘‘T’ve had people tell me, ‘I couldn’t go
to school with one of my children,’ ’’ she
said. ‘‘I think they could, though, if they
were put up to it.

‘Maybe my case is a little different,
though. Going to school as late as I did, it’s
been natural for me to be around people
Jimmy’s age and to treat them and be treated
by them as peers. I’m delighted they have
been so acceptable of me.”’

Nor does Jim Chapman believe the
situation could be characterized as amazing.

‘‘Our relationship here at law school has
not been that much different from when we
were growing up,’’ he said. ‘‘Mom has
always encouraged all of us to get as much
education as possible and never to settle for
second best. It was perfectly natural for me
to go to school with Mom because she’s been
SO interested in our education and in
broadening our horizons.”’

‘“You mean all those museums I dragged
you through meant something?’ Mrs.
Chapman interjected with a broad smile.

If the situation were strained for anyone,
it might have been for those members of the
Chapman family who were not in law school

The Chapman Family gathers for a post-graduation photograph: (from left) Paul, Edward, Christine, James IV, Becky, Donna, and James III.

at W&L but were back home in
Charlottesville.

Both Mrs. Chapman and Jim insist the
rest of the family was nothing but
supportive.

‘‘The first year I left my husband with
two teenage boys at home—one a high
school senior, one a junior,’’ Mrs. Chapman
said. “‘I think that was a bit rough for him to
adjust to. Then Paul went off to college last
year and Ted this year. So he’s been alone
this year, and I don’t think he minded that
too much. My family has been behind me
100 percent.”’

Mrs. Chapman decided to return to
school once her children had been raised
because ‘‘I felt I just didn’t want to sit back
and do needlepoint and play golf the rest of
my life. I don’t think I would have been
content to stay at home, although I was a
stay-at-home housewife all the time the
children were growing up.”’

Still, she does admit there were more
than a few moments her first year at W&L
when she thought perhaps needlepoint and
golf might not be so bad after all.

‘‘For me, law school was like being
dropped into a strange culture where I didn’t
know the language or the customs and had to
learn everything from scratch,’’ she said. ‘‘I
don’t think it was the age difference. And it
wasn’t just being away from home, although
that was difficult for me. It was just law

 

school.

‘'T consider law school a series of
hurdles. Either you get used to jumping them
or they get smaller. I’m not sure which.”’

One thing Mrs. Chapman did was
become involved in virtually every aspect of
law school life.

‘‘I did not want to stay aloof from things.
I wanted to be part of the class,’’ she said.
And she was very much a part of the class,
participating in the Legal Aid Society, the
Legal Research Association, the Tucker Law
Forum and serving as treasurer of the Student
Bar Association.

Perhaps the Chapmans’ greatest thrill—
next to receiving their diplomas together,
that is—came in January when Mrs.
Chapman was tapped into W&L’s Alpha
Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa. Jim
Chapman had been tapped into the Virginia
Tech circle of the national leadership
fraternity as an undergraduate.

‘‘T was particularly delighted because the
group that does the choosing is Jim’s age,”’
she said.

Following their graduation, the
Chapmans went in different directions—Mrs.
Chapman to a law firm in Charlottesville and
Jim to the Army’s JAG corps.

Will they ever be reunited as law partners
in the future?

‘“Well,”’ said Jim, “‘it’s always been sort
of a passing thought.”’

 

Graduating Sons and Daughters of Alumni

 

 

Alumni fathers of law graduates sit in front of their sons and daughters (standing at left) Allen Thomas Snyder Jr., Allen T. Snyder, deceased; (left to right) Robert
Edwards Connell, ’50, Dana Shelton Connell; David S. Weinberg, ’55, Rand David Weinberg; William H. Robinson, ’34,’37L, William Taylor Robinson; Neil Turpin
Houston, ’39, Sarah Christine Houston; Dr. Robert M. Sinskey, ’45, Patricia Elizabeth Sinskey; Carter Randolph Allen, ’48L, Mary Dudley Allen; Judge Joseph L.
Savage, ’42L, Thomas Yates Savage; H. A. (Jake) Berry Jr.,’49, ’51L, Harry Anderson Berry III; Thomas D. Frith Jr.,’59L, Thomas Daniel Frith III; Lloyd Addison
Lanier, ’49L, John Emery Lanier.

 

Sons of alumni who received academic degrees standing behind their fathers: Robert A. Dementi, ’40, Anthony R. Dementi; Dr. Clovis M. Snyder, 51, Stuart W.
Snyder; Thomas A. Agnew, ’52, Frank D. Agnew; Ehrick K. Haight Sr.,’54, Ehrick K. Haight Jr.; Charles M. Patrick Jr.,’55, Charles M. Patrick III; Louis G. Close
Jr., 57, Louis G. Close Ill; John R. Wittpenn, ’51, Robert K. Wittpenn; Dr. Melville P. Roberts Jr.,’53, Parker Roberts; James H. Flippen Jr.,’53L, John B. Flippen;
Lewis W. Martin, ’35, ’38L (grandfather), Kevin Todd Honey.

More sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their fathers: Charles M. Williams, ’52, John W. Williams; Robert Van Buren, ’50, Robert Scott Van
Buren; Dr. Benjamin M. Kaplan, ’45, (also received a degree), James S. Kaplan; Dr. B. Phillip Kocen, ’54, (stepfather), Mark Emerson Robson; Thomas K. Creson
Jr., ’53, Thomas K. Creson III; Milton D. Chalkley Jr., ’52, Milton D. Chalkley III; Louis P. McFadden Sr.,’79L, Michael K. McFadden.

 

8

 

 

ay
a
4
is
Sy
ay
a
iy
a
i

  

With the Board of Trustees seated behind him, Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. , 29, addresses the gathering at Lee Chapel during a ceremony to celebrate
the successful completion of Washington and Lee’s development program.

Development Celebration

Professorship Honors Huntley; Another Established; Commerce School Building Dedicated

On a weekend that had been set aside for
Washington and Lee to celebrate the
resounding success of its historic
development program, there proved to be
more to celebrate than anyone realized.

The University invited its most generous
benefactors to the campus in mid-May to
help celebrate the events of the past 10 years
during which Washington and Lee raised $67
million.

Midway through the formal celebration
ceremony in Lee Chapel, James M.
Ballengee, Rector of the Board of Trustees,
made two dramatic announcements.

First, Ballengee told the gathering, which
included the Trustees, that the University had
just established two new endowed
professorships, one of which will be named
in honor of W&L President Robert E. R.
Huntley.

And secondly, Ballengee announced that
in the six months since the development

program officially ended in December, the
University had already received an additional
$2 million in new capital and endowment
gifts.

Clearly, the ball was—and is—still
rolling.

As Huntley said during his brief remarks,
it was “‘an occasion for rejoicing not just
because, not even primarily because, of those
things that lie behind us. But I think it is an
occasion for rejoicing because of the strong
hope all of us share for the future of this
school.”’

Huntley added that ‘‘the immediate
future, the next decade ahead of the school,
will require principal emphasis on increasing
the already significant margin of excellence
which Washington and Lee enjoys over most
other educational institutions with which I
am familiar.

‘‘T believe this is the best school in
America,’’ he continued. ‘‘I want to make

 

Justice Powell at the podium

certain everybody else believes that. And
second, I want to make sure it’s true.’’

Huntley said he believes Washington and
Lee is ‘‘on the threshold of achieving a new
and even higher level of excellence. .. .”’

And, he added, ‘‘It’s a good thing we are
because in my judgment only those
institutions which achieve such an increased
margin of excellence will survive with
vitality in the years ahead. This school has
always risen to its challenges. I have no
doubt it will rise to that challenge.’’

Huntley was preceded at the podium by
one of the University’s most illustrous
graduates, Justice Lewis Powell, Associate
Justice of the United States Supreme Court
and a Trustee Emeritus.

Said Justice Powell: ‘‘The justification
for Washington and Lee’s existence, and for
the confidence in its future that inspired
enormous generosity of people who
benefitted our University, is the quality of
the educational opportunity it affords.’’

Justice Powell underscored several
factors that he feels contribute to an
environment that is favorable to academic
quality.

One of those factors, he said, is the
University’s location in Lexington where
‘‘the absence of urban distractions and the
beauty of the Valley of Virginia are
compatible with emphasis on intellectual and
reflective pursuits.”’

Further Justice Powell cited the school’s
size as ‘‘a distinct plus.’’

‘Few universities of distinction have a
better pupil/faculty ratio. And certainly few
afford a comparable opportunity for personal
relationships between students and faculty.”’

Confessing that he may ‘‘invite dissent’’
by suggesting that the all-male student body
is an asset, Justice Powell said: ‘‘It seems to
me that Washington and Lee can afford to
offer a choice. This has merit in light of the
fact that this country of ours over its long life
has always had a tradition of diversity. And I
think we make a contribution to that by
adhering to the tradition of an all-male
college.’’

The single most favorable factor, Justice
Powell added, ‘‘is W&L’s national
reputation as a first-rate liberal arts
university. . . . And happily, this reputation
has attracted an unusually strong faculty. I
think it will continue to do so.’’

Turning to the School of Law, Justice
Powell said he is glad that it “‘has not joined
the rush toward over-emphasis on clinical
training. That sort of training often takes
place at the expense of traditional courses. I
still believe in the Langdale tradition that law
is an academic discipline, and that its
mysteries are best revealed through the
rigorous analysis of appellate decisions. The

10

 

James M. Ballengee, the Rector

 

President Robert E. R. Huntley at the Commerce
School Dedication.

precious years of law school are the last
Opportunity most lawyers have for this sort
of demanding indoctrination—a method of
teaching the history, the great principles, and
the mode of principal analysis that best
prepare one to be a lawyer.”’

Ballengee’s announcement of the new
professorships served as a fitting climax to
the proceedings.

 

 

BLE

The Benefactors’ Wall is unveiled.

 

John P. Fishwick, former president of the Norfolk
and Western Railway Company, and Farris P.
Hotchkiss, W&L’s director of development.

The Robert E. R. Huntley Professorship
in Law was created to honor Huntley’s
presidency and his many contributions to the
University. In establishing the professorship,
the Trustees designated unrestricted
endowment funds which the University
received during the development program.
The Huntley Professorship will be the first
fully endowed chair in the history of the law

 

Trustee Edgar F. Shannon Jr. (center) and Mrs. E.
Waller Dudley (right)

The celebration dinner-dance in Warner Center

   

school.

Ballengee said the Trustees considered
the professorships ‘‘one small expression of
appreciation for the 14 years of Mr.
Huntley’s presidency during which so much
has been accomplished in so many important
areas. The Board of Trustees felt there could
be no more appropriate honor for Bob.’’

The other new professorship announced

    

 

Trustee S L Kopald with University librarian
Maurice D. Leach Jr. (right)

 

ee
a

Guests arriving at the Warner Center

during the celebration ceremony is the Lillian
and Rupert Radford Professorship in
Mathematics. The Radford Professorship was
created as the result of a $750,000 gift from
the estate of Rupert Radford of Houston,
Texas. Radford was president of Jno. S.
Radford & Sons, a company which owned
and operated a textile mill in Houston.
Ballengee called the establishment of the

Radford Professorship ‘‘an important
reminder that although the University has
accomplished a great deal during the 10
years of the development program, it is vital
that the momentum from that success be
maintained.’”’

In addition, Ballengee unveiled an artist’s
rendering of the Benefactors’ Wall for
Washington Hall. The Benefactors’ Wall
will soon be erected in the lobby of
Washington Hall and will list the names of
those benefactors of the University whose
gifts have been of $1 million or more.

The weekend of celebration included a
festive dinner-dance in the Warner Center
and concluded with dedication ceremonies
for the Commerce School Building, the
recently-renovated home of W&L’s School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

John P. Fishwick, former president of the
Norfolk and Western Railway Company, was
the principal speaker for the Commerce
School Building dedication.

In his remarks, Fishwick referred to
Washington and Lee’s long-standing
commitment to a liberal arts education.

‘“The main reason the [commerce] school
has been worthy of support is that it is not
what one might call simply a trade school,”’
Fishwick said during the ceremonies held on
the steps in front of the building which was
formerly the University’s undergraduate
library. ‘‘It is built on the foundation that it
recognizes that beyond the training and the
jargon of any particular business or
profession, there is an underlying
requirement that men be educated to be
civilized people . . . people who have
explored the liberal arts and who realize that
men everywhere seek to know what it means
to be a human being.”’

Noting that about 25 percent of the funds
used to remodel the Commerce School
Building came from American businesses,
Fishwick observed that ‘“business has to
recognize that no institution survives without
public support and acceptance. It has to do
more than just make a profit in order to meet
the public’s criteria. But it also must realize
that if it goes too far and infringes upon the
legitimate concerns of government, it also
runs into great trouble.

‘*The corporation today has a very
difficult task of determining how much and
into what areas it should make
contributions,’’ Fishwick added. ‘‘Whether
the American corporation responds
intelligently to requests such as these and to
all the other requests it has on it to fulfill
social responsibility will, I think, determine
not the welfare of those institutions [to which
it contributes] so much or the mere welfare
of those corporations, it may well determine
the survival of the corporations.”’

I |

Reunions, ’S2

Dobyns Speaks; Tribute to Huntley; Riegel Honored; Three Alumni Recognized

A provocative speech by NBC News
correspondent Lloyd Dobyns, a tribute to
President Robert E. R. Huntley, a dedication
ceremony in honor of former journalism
professor O. W. Riegel, and awards to three
of the University’s most distinguished
alumni—those were the highlights of
Washington and Lee’s annual Alumni
Reunion weekend in May.

Dobyns, a 1957 graduate, served two
purposes when he returned to the campus.
On the one hand, he was the keynote speaker
for the weekend and provided some insightful
comments in that role. On the other hand, he
was participating in his 25th class reunion.

‘*It is more than flattering to be asked to
speak at your 25th college class reunion,”’ said
Dobyns. ‘‘The flattery is such that you say
‘Yes’ before you realize that you have
nothing of value to say.

‘*That realization forces you to think
about what has happened in those 25 years
and to realize that whatever has occurred,
you have helped to cause it. It is not a
thought, considering the past 25 years, you
want to spend too much time with.’’

Dobyns, who has been named co-anchor
for NBC’s new overnight news program that
will begin at 1:30 a.m. and last one hour,
told his fellow alumni that ‘‘the problems of
establishing a working educational system
that meets today’s and tomorrow’s needs
are . . . horrendous.”’

Citing the explosion that has occurred in
communications and technology over the
past 46 years, Dobyns suggested that 25
years from now there will be ‘‘technological
changes that no one here this evening can
imagine. If you can accept that, then you
must accept this: In those 26 or fewer years,
the pressures on educational institutions will
become almost unbearable.

‘‘The need for trained manpower will
become the most important economic
concern we have. The need for continuing
education on several levels will be
compelling.”’

Dobyns said that the changes necessary
for education to keep pace will be made
‘‘only by those who have been taught how to
learn, people who have been educated well
enough to know that as things change, they
are no longer well educated.’’

Rejecting the argument made by some that

12

 

G. Russell Ladd, ’57, of Mobile, Ala., the new president of the W&L Alumni is flanked by outgoing president
James F.. Gallivan, ’51, of Nashville (left) and new vice president Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, of Baltimore.

education should “*become a junior partner
of industry’’ in the future, Dobyns said: ‘‘To
train someone only to work does not train
him to learn. And if he cannot learn, how
will he keep up as demand changes?”’

Even a perfect educational system,
Dobyns argued, would not cause the
economic problems the country now faces to
go away. But, he added, ‘‘if education does
not improve, then nothing else we do will
solve the problem. Education is not the
solution, but there is no solution without
education.”’

Dobyns’ keynote speech opened the
weekend on Thursday evening. The next day
was reserved for campus tours, panel
discussions with members of the faculty and
administration, and, of course, reminiscing.
One of the major events of the weekend took
place Friday afternoon when the University’s
broadcast facilities were formally dedicated
as the O. W. Riegel Telecommunications
Laboratories.

The ceremonies honoring Riegel, who
taught journalism from 1930 until his
retirement in 1973 and was head of the

department for 34 of those years, took place
in Reid Hall and included remarks by current
chairman of the journalism department
Ronald H. MacDonald, President Robert

E. R. Huntley, and Riegel with introductions
by journalism professor Robert J. de Maria.

The facilities dedicated as the Riegel
Telecommunications Laboratories consist of
fully equipped studios for WLUR-FM, the
175-watt campus radio station, and Cable
Nine, the University television station that
cablecasts over the Lexington Cable System.

The annual Alumni Meeting on Saturday
morning climaxed in a tribute to President
Huntley who announced in February that he
will retire at the end of 1982.

James F. Gallivan, who completed his
one-year term as president of W&L Alumni
Inc. in May, presented the tribute on behalf
of the alumni. His presentation centered on
excerpts from letters written to Huntley by
past presidents of the alumni board and
current presidents of alumni chapters.

The letters expressed a variety of
sentiments but were unanimous in the
appreciation of Huntley as both an
administrator and, as one writer emphasized,
a friend: ‘‘[Bob] knew us, he talked with us,
he entertained us and he made us appreciate
even more our university.’’ One other writer
put matters in perspective by calling Huntley
‘‘just another Delta Tau Delta in white
bucks, destined for great things.”’

In addition to the tribute to Huntley, the
annual meeting included the presentation of
Distinguished Alumnus Awards to award-
winning journalist Parke Rouse Jr., 37, of
Williamsburg, Va., attorney James D.
Sparks Sr., ’°32L, of Monroe, La., and
businessman Arch Sproul III, ’37, of
Staunton, Va.

The citation presented to Rouse noted
that he ‘‘has written about his alma mater for
national publications and has, by his
testimony as well as his achievements,
presented Washington and Lee’s strengths to
the world.’’ Rouse was reporter and editor
for the Newport News Daily Press and the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, a former director
of public relations for the Virginia Chamber
of Commerce, and former executive director
of the Jamestown- Yorktown Foundation.

Sparks served with distinction in torpedo
squadrons aboard two aircraft carriers,

NBC News correspondent Lloyd Dobyns, ’57, (left) chats with O. W. (Tom) Riegel (right) and Frank A.

Parsons, ’54, assistant to the president at W&L.

Distinguished Alumnus Awards were presented to (from left) attorney James D. Sparks Sr., ’32L, of

    
       

 

 

Monroe, La.; businessman Arch Sproul III, ’37, of Staunton, Va.; and, journalist Parke Rouse Jr., ’37,

of Williamsburg, Va.

primarily the U.S.S. Yorktown, during World
War II and was later honored by being
named chairman of the board of the U.S.S.
Yorktown Foundation. Following the war, he
became a successful attorney with the

Monroe law firm of Thompson, Sparks &

Cudd. He has also been an active
businessman and was an undefeated state
senator in Louisiana.

Sproul, who organized the Virginia
International Company which is involved
with the development of oil and gas

13

Reunions, ’82

production in Indonesia, was cited for his
‘*distinguished record of achievement and
leadership in military service, the world of
business, civic affairs, and education.’”’

Other awards were made for participation
in the University’s Annual Fund. Those
were:

—Washington Trophy (largest amount
given by an academic class graduated in the
last 50 years): Class of 1940, Ross V.
Hersey, class agent;

—Richmond Trophy (highest
participation by a class graduated in the last
50 years): Class of 1934, Scott Mosovich,
class agent;

—Bierer Trophy (highest participation by
a class graduated in the last 10 years): Class
of*1981, Chris Gammon, class agent;

—Malone Trophy (largest amount given
by a law class graduated in the last 50 years):
Class of 1957, Overton P. Pollard, class
agent;

—John Newton Thomas Trophy (reunion
class whose gifts show the greatest increase
in amount over total from the previous year):
Class of 1932, Eugene P. Martin Jr.
(academic) and Martin P. Burks III (law),
class agent.

New officers were elected and introduced
at the alumni meeting. They are G. Russell
Ladd III, °57, of Mobile, Ala., president;
Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, of Baltimore, vice
president; and, William E. Latture, ’49, of
Greensboro, N.C., treasurer. New members
of the board of directors are Charles R.
Beall, ’56, ’58L, of Martinsburg, W.Va.;
William N. Clements, ’50, ’52L, of
Baltimore; Oliver M. Mendell, 50, of New
York; and, Rice M. Tilley Jr., ’58, of Fort
Worth.

The Law School Association’s new
officers are Harry A. Berry, ’51L, of
Charlotte, N.C., president, and Raymond W.
Haman, ’52L, of Seattle, Wash., vice
president. New council members are Mark
B. Davis Jr., ’58L, of Louisville, Ky.; Judge
William H. Oast Jr., >50L, of Portsmouth,
Va.; and, Jeffrey L. Willis, ’75L, of
Phoenix, Ariz.

Following the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association, Benjamin Aaron,
professor of law at the UCLA School of
Law, delivered the 34th annual John
Randolph Tucker lecture in the law school.
Aaron’s lecture was entitled ‘‘Labor

14

Relations Law in the United States from a
Comparative Perspective.”’

Before the reunion participants adjourned
for an evening of class dinners and more

As always, reunions meant good fellowship and fond memories.

 

 

reminiscing, Washington and Lee’s lacrosse
team provided the alumni with a treat as the
Generals pounded visiting Hofstra 19-10 on
Wilson Field.

GLE He
te Wi, Ce ll
t GLE LE:

YE

GE

 

Members of the Class of 1932 celebrate their 50th reunion: (left to right first row) John Harris, Jack Stark, Robert Nelson, Kenneth Routon, Paul (Jerry) Holstein,
Everett Cross, Allen DeLand, George Price, Haven Walton, Jack Hamilton, Eli Fink, Julian Broome; (second row) Sherwood Wise, John Ladd, Woodson Gillock,
Charles Long, Al Perry, Harry McCarty, Bill Hoyt, Randolph Shields, Carlyle Lynch; (inset) James D. Sparks, Jack G. Marks.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOUNGE

  

Members of the Class of 1942 celebrate their 40th reunion: (bottom row left to right) Wallace Reynolds, W. John Daniel, Paul C. Thomas Jr., William J. Scott Jr.,
William B. Gunn, James H. Woosley, C. Tom Garten, George A. Woolfenden, Robert P. Schellenberg, Robert C. Walker, Richard T. Wright, Robert Cavanna; (middle
row) Richard A. Brunn, Clyde E. Smith Jr., J. Aubrey Matthews, Carter L. Refo, Evan A. Chriss, Walter C. Aberg Jr., Daniel C. Lewis, Jack Peacock, Jack Barrie,
Charles P. Didier; (top row) Robert A. Lawton, Louis C. Greentree, Gustave A. Essig, Thomas M. Cox, Leon J. Warms, Charles H. Lanier, Frederick H. Pitzer Jr.,
Robert W. Root, Robert T. Vaughan, Sidney Isenberg, Charles B. Conner, C. Thomas Fuller, Frank L. La Motte Jr., Edgar M. Boyd.

15

by Robert Fure

W&L’s Alderson Prison Program

Law Students Offer Legal Counsel to Hundreds of Inmates in Federal Facility for Women

One is first intrigued by the contrasts. On
the one hand a federal maximum security
prison for women, and on the other a small
private school for men.

Actually, the Alderson Prison Legal
Assistance Program is run by W&L’s
coeducational Law School. Yet most of the
16 students working in the program this year
are male—future attorneys not yet quite
comfortable in coat and tie, young men who,
after the 100-mile drive to Alderson each
week, encounter a world vastly different
from their own. On the one hand, a
population consisting largely of inner-city
blacks and Hispanics, repeat offenders who
have reached the end of the line in the
federal penal system. On the other hand, the
privileged children of good homes on the
right side of the tracks, earnest, hard-
working white kids whose academic
successes and high ambitions have qualified
them for the study of law.

On one side winners, on the other losers.
In the little rooms at Alderson Prison where
they come together for consultation, you can
see it in their faces. The bright, inquisitive
aspects of the law students furrow to fine
points of legal procedure, while the bland
expressions of the inmates open only to a
weary fretfulness, and then only
momentarily. The long stretch of time at
Alderson wears down both anger and hope.
In his half hour, the law student can sharpen
these emotions briefly in order to get to the
heart of a legal problem, but the feelings on
opposite sides of the table are different. One
person is busy, and the other isn’t going
anywhere. It is a matter of different clocks
and calendars, different lives.

Yet these are merely first impressions,
and those of an ‘‘outsider,’’ of one so
mystified by the presence of Washington and
Lee in a setting so remote from its usual
concerns that he is caught by the differences
between the communities. Actually, the
Federal Correctional Institution at Alderson
is, in the world of maximum security
prisons, a model facility. And Washington
and Lee’s Legal Assistance Program is but
one of many programs that help to make
Alderson *‘a prison that works.”’

Located in the foothills of the Allegheny
Mountains along the banks of the Greenbrier
River, Alderson can be mistaken at first sight

16

 

Guy Harbert, student director of the legal assistance program, and client

for a college campus. There are no walls, lined common. Most of the 550 inmates
bars, or barbed wire. Tidy, traditional red- range in age from 22 to 29. The dress is
brick dormitories surround a broad, tree- coed-casual—blue jeans and corduroys have

 

replaced prison uniforms. Nearly all of the
women have private rooms, decorated as
they choose, and all of the dorms have TVs
and game rooms.

But Alderson is much quieter than a
college campus, for during the day most of
the residents are hard at work. The activities
are, nonetheless, surprisingly varied. There
are over 150 employment and counseling
programs, ranging from the manufacture of
parachutes for the U.S. Weather Service in
one of the prison factories to college degree
programs. The Alderson Legal Assistance
Program is one of the several educational
services provided voluntarily by outside
schools and agencies. The inmates,
therefore, do not lack for things to do nor for
people willing to help them prepare for re-
entry into society.

‘*Still, our primary purpose is not to
rehabilitate the prisoner,’’ says David
Hellman, assistant to the warden at
Alderson. “‘If that happens along the way,
fine. There’s certainly lots of opportunity for
it. But these women have been convicted of
committing crimes, and our court system has
determined that they should be punished.
That’s why they’re here. We shouldn’t forget
that.”’

Hellman’s boss is Warden G. H. Sizer—
Mrs. Gwen Sizer. A handsome black woman
of imposing stature and self-command, she
sits behind an enormous desk in the prison’s
Administration Building. Everything in her
office, including its occupant, seems one-
and-a-half times normal size and firmly in
place. She is the woman for the job.

‘*We have been pleased with the
assistance Washington and Lee has offered
our institution over the years.’’ The mode is
imperial until she warms to some reflection
on specific benefits of the program to the
prison itself. ‘“The Legal Assistance Program
is helpful to individual prisoners, of course,
but it also helps us to understand some of
their problems here. It’s another line of
communication.”’

Each Thursday morning, a team of three
W2&L law students arrives at Alderson. After
checking in at the Visitor’s Center, they
troop with their briefcases down along the
row of dorms (‘‘cottages,’’ as they’re
called), past a woman with a broom or rake

 

   

Lucinda Harrison: ‘‘a matter of education’

pulling yard duty for that day, toward the
Administration Building, where the
consultations with the inmates are held.

Each law student interviews several
women during his half-day visit. The
concerns range from in-house matters, like
proper “‘good-time’’ credit for job
performance, to such major appeals as a
motion for a new trial or a parole date.

‘‘A lot of the problems that we deal with
are matters that the prisoners’ attorneys
should have handled,’’ says Lucinda
Harrison, a third-year law student who
served as program director for 1981-82.
‘*Simple things like a motion for a sentence
reduction. Such an action should be standard
procedure in all cases. But, after a defendant
is convicted and a sentence handed down,
often an attorney simply abandons his client.
There should be more follow-up. The
judicial process does not simply end once a
client enters prison.”’

Lucinda, a delicately slender young
woman whose bright self-assuredness belies
her fragile appearance, adds after a moment’s
thought, ‘“‘That may be a reflection on the
way we pay court-appointed attorneys. But it
may also be a matter of education. A lot of
attorneys—and a lot of judges, for that
matter—simply don’t know what the prison
system is like or how the parole board
operates.’’

The law students in the Alderson

Photographs by Sally Mann

program, of course, learn these matters first
hand, and such education is a major benefit
of the experience. One of three options
second- and third-year students have for on-
the-job training, the Alderson program offers
future attorneys some valuable lessons in
how the legal system functions, and, perhaps
most vividly, how people function within the
system. One of the special advantages of the
program is that, at the nether side—at the
veritable foot—of justice, it provides
students with a close study of truth or
consequences.

There are certain personal advantages as
well. Harrison elaborates: *‘Like many law
students, I had some questions as to how I
could handle working with a client whom I
knew to be guilty. I guess I’ve learned that
the guilty are, after all, people who need
help. The fact that they’re guilty just alters
the way I work within the system.’’

Without blinking, Harrison enunciates
her own special sense of mission, ** You
want to help them. The fact that they’re in
prison just creates another difficulty that you
have to work with. But they’re in trouble and
they need help.’’

What kind of women are they, generally?
‘“Weak, in many cases, sometimes pathetic
perhaps. A lot of women are there because
they went along with their boyfriends or
husbands. They knew they were doing
something that wasn’t quite right, but they
never realized how wrong it was until they
got in just enough to get sunk with the
others.

‘*Some of the inmates are really very
nice. You wonder how they ever wound up
there. Some are younger even than we are.
You think they’ve got nothing going for
them. Then again, there are some who have
master’s degrees and others who are
wealthier than I ever expect to be.

‘*Then there are the characters. Last
Summer we had one who wanted us to help
her overturn her conviction. She claimed that
God had told her to deal in drugs. She had
never had any problems before she became a
Christian!”’

What is the work like? Harrison bows, as
though she were acknowledging her
listener’s impending disappointment: ** Very
undramatic, slow, even tedious at times.
This is not Perry Mason pulling a surprise

17

W&L’s Alderson Prison Program

 

witness out of his pocket kind of work. It’s
letters, research, and more letters, and an
occasional appeal that gets heard. But that’s
what the law is like.’’

The legal battles, then, are not exactly
pitched. Working through their advisor,
Professor Wilfred J. Ritz, the students
operate mainly as intermediaries between the
inmates and various parole commissions,
attorneys, courts, and, occasionally, the
administration of the prison itself. Last year,
the students conducted over 300 interviews:
one fifth of the inmate population used the
service.

When asked to describe her most
satisfying case, Harrison bows again, then
brightens: ‘‘It involved restoring an inmate’s
credit rating. It took a full year, but it
worked out all right.’’

But isn’t a convicted criminal
automatically a poor credit risk? ‘‘Not
necessarily. After all, a thief may have stolen
in order to pay her bills. For a lot of inmates,
a credit rating will be all they have when
they get out.”’

Just so. Lucinda smiles, her pockets full
of good arguments.

Guy Harbert will serve as student director
of the program in 1982-83. Harbert has been

18

 

The Federal Correctional Facility at Alderson: prison as campus

a workhorse in the program this year and will
serve as the sole student counsel during the
law school’s summer recess. He agrees that
the program exacts a kind of plodding
diligence from the students.

‘‘Law students first complain that the
program doesn’t allow them to do enough. A
lot of what we do is administrative, in-house
work. We even had a woman who came in
and complained that her roof was leaking.’’

For Alderson itself, Harbert has generally
very high praise, despite the occasional leaky
roof: ‘‘If there is a prison that does anything
about rehabilitation, Alderson is the one.
Given its numerous programs and activities,
and the general atmosphere of the place, it’s
a model prison. There should be more like
it.”’

Harbert reserves his frustration for those
outside the prison boundaries. He admits to
being frequently disappointed with the
various parole boards governing prisoner
release.

‘‘T used to think that a system whereby
people would determine the length of an
inmate’s stay on the basis of her behavior
and rehabilitation was great. But most of the
time it doesn’t work that way. Parole
becomes a matter of numbers. A prisoner is
assigned a number when she arrives and the

sentence is computed mathematically. A
computer could do the same job. The parole
commission often simply doesn’t listen to the
recommendations and expectations of the
judge when it comes to an indeterminate
sentence.”’

Harbert offers a minor disquisition on the
parole system, its merits and demerits. Both
he and Harrison agree that the major problem
they face in working on behalf of the inmates
is an indifference within the system, a
heedlessness that seems at times intransigent.

One of nine inmates assigned to Harbert
on the day of his visit, Gloria Stevenson is in
many ways typical of Alderson’s population.
A black woman in her mid-twenties from a
major Southern city, she is in her third term
at Alderson for mail theft. Her particular
legal problem is in no way exceptional. She
is wondering whether she will have to serve
a five-year Louisiana sentence once she
completes her federal term, or whether her
time at Alderson will be credited against her
debt to the state. In the meantime, neither
her court-appointed attorney nor the clerk of
the Louisiana court has informed her of her
legal obligations. Guy Harbert, working
under the guidance of Professor Ritz, will
help her learn of her status.

In the meantime, Ms. Stevenson is
grateful, though somewhat languid in her
expression: “‘I feel better that someone else
is working on it besides me because I get
kinda tired sweating it out all by myself.’’

Harbert appears unaffected by the pathos
of Stevenson’s predicament: that of an
unmarried mother of five who can’t keep her
hands off other people’s mail. What concerns
him most is that, here again, communication
has broken down between the judicial system
and his client. He tackles the issue with the
zeal of a problem-solver, while Ms.
Stevenson, stolid, her head in her hands,
trails off, ‘‘I’m just trying to get it all
together ’cause I’m tired.’’

Harbert’s most immediate model of
patient determination is probably Bill Ritz
(W&L, °38), the W&L law professor who
has served as director of the program since
its inception. It is Ritz who reviews all of the
cases, advises the students on the proper
course of action, and signs all the letters. As

 

  

Typical ‘‘accommodations’’ in a prison without bars

~

attorney, Ritz is the only one empowered to
offer legal advice to the inmates and to act
on their behalf.

Ritz spends most of his Fridays
discussing with the individual law students
the results of the interviews at Alderson on
the day before. Normally, Ritz reviews about
25 cases weekly. Last year 168 cases,
ranging from parole to bankruptcy and
institutional transfer, were opened and
closed.

Ritz does it all with something akin to
love. It is expressed by his thoroughness in
handling individual cases, by his long
devotion to the overall program, and, indeed
like love, by a certain difficulty he has in
describing its particular satisfaction. When
asked why he has spent so much of his time
and energy in the program over its twelve-
year history, he leans back in his chair,
smiles, looks out the window, fidgets, smiles
again, and then allows, ‘‘I have found this an

Professor Wilfred Ritz and Harbert: good-humored determinatio

 

 
 

n.

extremely interesting program.”’

Yes, well, how so? Lawyers discuss their
pleasures in the manner of chess players:
very little commentary on the general cause,
total absorption in the recapitulation of
specific moves. Professor Ritz touches
briefly on the variety of legal problems and
personalities that he has met in the Alderson
program. Then he settles comfortably into an
illustration—a vast, epic tale involving two
Columbian sisters convicted (wrongfully,
perhaps) of conspiracy to import narcotics.

While serving their terms at Alderson,
the women had contacted the Legal
Assistance Program in an effort to avoid
automatic deportation once their sentences
were up. The women consistently maintained
their ignorance of the contraband contained
in the two suitcases that they had been told
to pick up at the airport by their mother, still
in Columbia. Arrested, tried, and convicted,
the women feared being forced to return to

 

Columbia—and to a parent of questionable
character.

So begins a long, complex narrative
chronicling the efforts of the Legal
Assistance Program on behalf of the two
women. After months of correspondence,
research, appeals, and general wrangling
with the Immigration Authority (Ritz even
cut a vacation short), the efforts proved
successful. The women, now married with
children, are today leading productive lives
in America after paying a somewhat dubious
debt to their new country.

Ritz takes a similar degree of interest in
all of the cases he handles, and he expects
the same degree of commitment from the
students working in the program. “‘I think
that this is something that any respectable
lawyer has to do. Many of the legal problems
we encounter are very complicated.’’

Ritz pauses, smiles again, and tenders a
mild complaint: ‘‘I do have a feeling that
judges and lawyers and those who are not
involved in this sort of thing tend to think
that prison work is easy, that there’s really
nothing to it compared to big antitrust cases.
Of course, one difference is that we have to
do our work without benefit of influential
legal contacts and highly paid professional
assistance.”’

The Alderson Legal Assistance Program
began in 1970. Former Supreme Court
Justice Tom Clark, then head of the Federal
Judicial Center, contacted Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr., Dean of the Law School,
about the possibility of forming such a
program at W&L. Clark had learned through
the Bureau of Prisons that such programs
existed elsewhere in the country. Alderson
Prison, to which W&L was the closest law
school, had no such service. Steinheimer
acted, appointing Bill Ritz, who had been
teaching criminal law and domestic relations,
to direct the program. Clark sent a check for
$1,500 from the Judicial Center to
supplement the program’s initial funding.

So Washington and Lee went to prison,
bringing its best traditions of honor and
service, and, for the effort, bettering itself
and its students.

Washington and Lee at Alderson: on her
mother’s side of the family, Lucinda
Harrison is a Custis.

19

& Gazette

 

 

W&L Business Team
wins Emory Games

A team of students from Washington and
Lee University’s School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics won top honors in
the 1982 Intercollegiate Business Games in
Atlanta, Ga., in February.

Washington and Lee’s team was
composed of Andy Gottschalk of Lake
Forest, Ill.; John Monroe of New Orleans,
La.; Brian Noonan of Charlotte, N.C.; and,
Bob Wittpenn of Glen Ridge, N.J. All are
seniors.

Dr. Joseph Goldsten, professor of
administration at W&L, served as faculty
adviser to the team.

The Intercollegiate Business Games are
sponsored annually by the Graduate Business
Association of the Graduate School of
Business Administration at Emory University
in Atlanta.

Washington and Lee was one of 24
colleges and universities participating in the
games, which began in early January when
the W&L team took over a hypothetical firm
and attempted to improve that firm’s
profitability.

‘We became the management of a firm
we called ‘Lee Labs.’ Our firm produced
aspirin and an aspirin product with codeine,”’
Wittpenn explained.

‘‘Qur task in the games was to take this
hypothetical company, which had been
standing still because of poor management,
and create, then implement, a strategy that
would turn that company around.’’

By using a computer terminal on the
W&L campus that was tied directly into a
central computer at Emory, the W&L team
made a series of decisions each week as it
guided the company through three years of
its development in two months time.

‘In establishing our strategy, we had to
take numerous variables into consideration,
including the current business climate and
forecasts of the future economic situation,”’
said Monroe.

Once the decisions were analyzed by the
central computer at Emory, the W&L team
received an industry report that indicated
how their decisions had affected the firm
based on other variables in the economy.

20

 

Washington and Lee’ s victorious team in the Emory Intercollegiate Business Games was composed of (from

 

left) Andy Gottschalk, John Monroe, Bob Wittpenn, and Brian Noonan.

After all the weekly decisions had been
made and Lee Labs was thriving, the W&L
team joined its competitors for two final days
of competition in Atlanta where all the teams
were required to make presentations before
panels of judges. The judges included
members of the Emory faculty, graduate
business students at Emory, and
representatives of industry.

‘*The competition held in Atlanta was
about 50 percent of the entire game,”’
explained Wittpenn. ‘‘It was a real pressure-
cooker.

‘‘On the first day of the Atlanta
competition, we were given a case in which
we had the option of acquiring a new firm.
We had three hours in which to go over all
the figures and decide whether it would be in
our firm’s best interests to acquire the new
firm. Once we had made our decision, we
had to present the decision to the panel of
judges, who were acting essentially like our
board of directors.”’

The second day produced even more
pressure, said Monroe.

‘*This time we were given a case in
which we had the option on a new product—
whether we wanted to manufacture it, market
it, license it, whatever,’’ Monroe explained.

‘“We had 30 minutes in which to make our
decision and justify the decision for the
judges.

‘“Because we worked so well together,
we each tackled a different task in those 30
minutes and managed to make everything
come together for the presentation.

‘“We wound up buying a new firm for
$19.5 million and investing $5 million in a
new product—all in just two days.’’

Those two days also produced the
championship trophy—Washington and
Lee’s second in the competition. W&L’s
team won the trophy in 1977.

 

 

Faculty promotions

Promotions in academic rank have been
announced for seven members of the
Washington and Lee University faculty.

Two faculty members have been
promoted from associate professor to full
professor. They are Dr. Lewis G. John
(politics) and Dr. Robert L. Wilson Jr.
(mathematics).

Promoted to associate professor from
assistant are Samuel W. Calhoun (law), Dr.

Barry F. Machado (history), Dr. David R.
Novack (sociology), and Dr. Ronald L.
Reese (physics).

Promoted to assistant professor from
instructor is Rolf G. Piranian (physical
education). |

The promotions, which become effective
September |, were approved by Washington
and Lee’s board of trustees during its spring
meeting in Lexington earlier this month.

John, who also serves as dean of students
at W&L, joined the University in 1963 as
assistant dean of students and director of
financial aid. He received his Ph.D. from
Syracuse University in 1973 and teaches in
the areas of American government and public
administration.

Wilson received both his master’s degree
and Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin
where he was an assistant professor of
mathematics before joining the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1975. His research
interests include algebra, group
generalizations, and applications of
computers in mathematics.

Calhoun, who received the juris doctor
degree from the University of Georgia
School of Law in 1974, joined the
Washington and Lee law school faculty in
1978 after serving previously on the law
faculties of the University of Wyoming and
the University of Puget Sound. At W&L,
Calhoun’s teaching areas include contracts
and consumer protection.

Machado received his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from Northwestern University. He
joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
1971. His teaching areas include recent
American history and diplomatic history of
the United States.

Novack received his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from New York University. He
joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
1976 after previously serving on the faculty
of Bowdoin College. His teaching areas
include race and ethnic relations, crime and
delinquency, and deviance. His current
research involves the examination of
ethnicity in South Boston.

Reese received his Ph.D. degree from
The Johns Hopkins University. He joined the
faculty at Washington and Lee in 1979.
Previously, he taught at Bates College,
Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Pacific
University. His research interests include
light scattering in polymer systems, the
history of astronomy, and astronomical
calendars and cycles. His teaching areas at
W&L include electronics and astronomy.

Piranian joined the faculty of Washington
and Lee in 1976. He received his bachelor’s
degree frcm W&L in 1974. He is head coach

of the varsity soccer team at W&L and was
soccer Coach of the Year for the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference in 1977,
1979, and 1980.

 

 

Spanish prints
exhibited in duPont

One of the highlights of the year’s series
of shows in Washington and Lee’s duPont
Gallery was an exhibition of contemporary
Spanish prints that was displayed during
March.

Composed of two prints each by 30
Spanish artists, the show was organized as a
traveling exhibition by Madrid art dealer
Carmen Gimenez and Madrid-based art critic
Everett Rice, a 1960 graduate of W&L.

Rice visited the campus during the
exhibition and presented a lecture.

An art history major at W&L, Rice first
went to Spain 20 years ago. ‘‘I went to spend
a year studying Spanish and wound up living
there the past 18 years,’’ explained Rice. ‘‘I
didn’t choose Spain so much as Spain chose
me.”’

Although he worked in the tourist
business in Spain, Rice explained that he
‘“was caught up in Spanish art. By now it’s
part of my life.”’

The exhibition Rice helped organize
began a two-year tour of the United States in
1979 and represented one of the first
opportunities the American public has had to
view a large selection of contemporary
Spanish prints.

Rice called the duPont show ‘‘a step back

that Rice organized.

in this direction for me and the first step
toward some other ventures, including future
exhibitions at Washington and Lee.”’

The exhibition was organized under the
auspices of the Grupo Quince workshop in
Madrid and received backing from a grant
from the U.S.-Spanish Joint Committee for
Education and Cultural Affairs of the 1976
Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation
between the United States and Spain.

Other duPont Gallery exhibitions
included a show of 19th-century wood
engravings by Winslow Homer from the
Virginia Museum and works from the private
collection of Lexington resident Ralph Grant.

 

 

Honors, awards

Several Washington and Lee students,
faculty members, and administrators received
honors and awards during the winter and
Spring terms.

The list of award-winners includes:

—Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award:
Jeffrey S. Gee of Johnson City, Tenn.

—Edward L. Pinney Prize: senior Frank
Williams of Danville, Va. The Pinney Prize,
awarded for the first time in 1982, was
established in memory of the late Edward
Lee Pinney, professor of politics until his
death in 1980, and recognizes extraordinary
commitment to personal scholarship and to
the nurturing of intellectual life at W&L;

—ROTC Outstanding Cadet Award:
senior Russell H. Rector of Kansas City,
Mo. Other ROTC awards went to senior
Anthony R. Ierardi of Philadelphia, who won

 

Everett Rice, 60, (right) guides several W&L students through an exhibit of contemporary Spanish prints

21

Le Gazette

the Major Ronald O. Scharnberg Memorial
Award, and senior Scott B. Puryear of
Madison, Va., who won the George C.
Marshall ROTC Award.

—The Frank Johnson Gilliam Award:
senior Robert M. Staugaitis of Farmingdale,
N.Y. The Gilliam Award goes annually to
the senior who has made the most valuable
and conspicuous contribution to life at
Washington and Lee.

—Ring-tum Phi Awards: President
Robert E. R. Huntley, history professor
Charles W. Turner, art professor Isabel
Mcllvain, senior Michael P. Bernot of
Hampton, Va., senior Nelson Ould of
Richmond, Va., and Staugaitis. The annual
awards are presented by the student
newspaper on the basis of outstanding
service and exceptional dedication to W&L;

—The William Webb Pusey III Award:
Charles W. Turner, professor of history, for
outstanding service and dedication to the
University as voted by the executive
committee of the student body.

—The Rupert N. Latture Outstanding
Sophomore Award: Timothy A. Valliere of
Uncasville, Conn. The Latture Award is
presented by W&L’s Alpha Circle of
Omicron Delta Kappa to the sophomore who
best exemplifies the ideals of ODK.

—Jean Amory Wornom Award for
Distinguished Critical Writing: senior Mark
L. Beamer of Newport News, Va.

—George A. Mahan Awards in Creative
Writing: senior Franklin P. Billingsley of
Mountain Brook, Ala., and sophomore Joel
Bassett of Charlotte, N.C.

—Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion:
senior Frank Williams of Danville, Va. The
Sullivan Medallion is awarded by a vote of
the University faculty to the student who
excels in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and disinterested
service to others.

 

 

Phi Beta Kappa
inducts 25

Twenty undergraduate students and four
1981 graduates were inducted into
membership in the Gamma of Virginia
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Washington
and Lee University in March.

The chapter, installed at the University in
1911, annually elects a limited number of
students whose academic records and
character are superior.

The annual Phi Beta Kappa address was
delivered by Edward Said, professor of

22

 

literature at Columbia University

English and comparative literature at
Columbia University.

Elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa

at Washington and Lee this year were:

Seniors: Craig T. Albanese of Melville,
N.Y.; Robert Andrew Finkle of Bristol, Va.:
Floyd Brian Gibson of Matthews, N.C.:
Rudolph Gordon Johnstone III of Weston,
Conn.; John Baskervill McKee III of
Clarksdale, Miss.; James Kelly Moles Jr. of
Roanoke, Va.; Dale Frederick Park of
Rochester, N.Y.; Parker Roberts of
Farmington, Conn.; William Lawrence
Wescott II of Baldwin, Md.; and, Edward
Sar Yastrow of Highland Park, Ill.

Juniors: Charles Dewitt Caruthers of
Shreveport, La.; William Francis Connors of
Mountain Lake, N.J.; Howard Elmo Gill III

Edward Said, professor of English and comparative

 

RAY PROHASKA

Ray Prohaska, artist in residence at
Washington and Lee from 1963 to 1969,
died Oct. 7, 1981 at his home in East
Hampton, L.I., N.Y. He was 80. A na-
tive of Yugoslavia, Prohaska was a
naturalized American citizen. He be-
came an internationally renowned artist
whose works were exhibited in many
major galleries and whose illustrations
appeared in numerous magazines. Many
art critics acclaimed his work and his
long, distinguished career. After leaving
Washington and Lee in 1969, Prohaska
was named artist in residence at Wake
Forest University. He is survived by his
wife, the former Carolyn Pierson, and
three children.

 

 

 

of Virginia Beach, Va.; Scott William Hall
of Danville, Va.; William Henry Langhorne
III of Pensacola, Fla.; Michael Blake Streiff
of Gainesville, Fla.; John Christopher
Vlahoplus of Columbia, S.C.; Henry
Kenneth Williams of Newark, Del.; Thomas
Alexander Wilson of Birmingham, Ala.; and,
Harold Bowen Woodruff of Anniston, Ala.

1981 Graduates: Jay Allan Diesing of
Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; Kevin Barry Dwyer of
Leesburg, Va.; Kevin Michael McGuire of
Danville, Ky.; and, Douglas Robert Shipman
of South Glastonbury, Conn.

 

 

Faculty activities

—Two Washington and Lee psychology
professors were guest lecturers at
professional gatherings last winter. H.
Eugene King spoke at The Johns Hokpins
School of Medicine and to the Richmond
Psychology Colloquim. Leonard E. Jarrard
spoke to the professional staff of the Division
of Neuropsychiatry of Walter Reed Army
Institute of Research and to members of the
Neurobiology Group of the University of
Virginia School of Medicine.

—Pamela Hemenway Simpson, associate
professor of art, has been elected to a two-
year term on the board of the Vernacular
Architecture Forum.

—Washington and Lee sociology
professors O. Kendall White Jr. and Emory
Kimbrough presented papers at the annual
meetings of the Southern Sociological
Society in April.

—Two members of the mathematics
department, Wayne M. Dymacek and Robert
L. Wilson Jr., were participants in a special
regional meeting of the Mathematical
Association of America. The meeting was
devoted to the relation of mathematics and
mathematics education to computing.

—Lewis G. John, dean of students,
received the Distinguished Service Award
from the National Association of Student
Personnel Administrators.

—Philip L. Cline, associate professor of
economics and administration, is the co-
author of an article entitled ‘‘Regional
Welfare and Agricultural Research and
Extension in the United States’’ published in
the March issue of Agricultural
Administration.

—Capt. Jerome F. Kelly, assistant
professor of military science, was decorated
with a special ‘‘impact’’ award of the Army
Commendation Medal for his work with the
George C. Marshall ROTC Awards
Conference.

—Dr. S. Todd Lowry, professor of
economics and administration, is the author
of an article in the professional journal,
History of Political Economy. Lowry’s
article is entitled ‘‘The roots of hedonism: an
ancient analysis of quanity and time.”’

—The off-Broadway production of a new
play, ‘‘Comes The Happy Hour,’’ was
dedicated to the late drama professor Leonel
L. Kahn Jr. The play was directed by
Richard E. Kramer, a 1969 graduate of W&L
who studied drama under Kahn.

—A geological map of the James River
Face Wilderness, Bedford and Rockbridge
Counties, Virginia, by W&L geology
professor Edgar Spencer and Irvine Brown
was recently published by the United States
Geological Survey.

 

 

Eversmann named

Robert P. Eversmann has been appointed
controller at Washington and Lee University.

A native of Baldwin, N.Y., Eversmann
previously was employed as director of
finance for the Total Action Against Poverty
program in Roanoke, Va. Prior to that, he
was an investment officer with Capitoline
Investment Services.

Eversmann received the B.S. degree in
commerce from the University of Virginia in
1954 and attended the New York University
Graduate School of Business Administration.

 

 

Library receives
Aisenberg Collection

A Baltimore, Md., couple has given the
Washington and Lee University Library an
important collection of almost 1,200 books
and exhibition catalogs concerning late 19th-
and early 20th-century art.

Ellen and Alvin Aisenberg presented the
books which they collected over the past 30
years. Mr. Aisenberg is an alumnus of
Washington and Lee.

Approximately one quarter of the
Aisenberg Collection is composed of works
on French artist Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.
The collection includes a multi-volume
catalog of his complete drawings and an
extensive group of critical works and
biographies of Lautrec.

‘*This collection is by no means a survey
of the history of modern art,’’ Mr. and Mrs.
Aisenberg wrote in describing their gift. ‘‘It
is rather a personal collection which stresses
those figures which have especially appealed

 

 

Richard W. Oram (left) and Priscilla Lewis of the University Library staff examine one of the volumes in the

University’s new Aisenberg Collection of books and exhibition catalogs concerning late 19th- and early

20th-century art.

to us: Lautrec, Degas, Schiele and
Modigliani.

‘“We feel that it has sufficient depth to
stimulate those students involved in research;
it should also be useful to those who are
simply interested in examining exhibition
catalogs of their favorite artists.’’

University librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr.
said that the Aisenbergs’ gift ‘‘adds a
distinguished reference resource to the
University Library. Each member of the
Washington and Lee community is indebted
to them for sharing with us this very
carefully selected and rich collection.’’

 

 

Journalism class
gets in the swim

Students in a Washington and Lee
journalism class had a chance to test their
skills in television production on a major
scale in March when Cable Channel Nine,
W&L’s student-operated television station,
presented a live telecast of the NCAA
Division III Swimming and Diving
Championships.

The three-day NCAA event, which
involved more than 375 competitors from 75
different Division III colleges and

universities, was held in Washington and
Lee’s Twombly Pool.

Cable Channel Nine, which ordinarily
provides three hours of daily programming,
carried 18 hours of live coverage during the
meet and produced a nightly highlights
program.

‘‘This event provided invaluable
experience for our students,’’ said Robert J.
de Maria, assistant professor of journalism at
Washington and Lee. ‘‘Covering an event of
this size created situations that caused the
students to display a lot of originality in their
approach.

‘‘In addition to normal Cable Channel
Nine staff members, students in Journalism
232 (Television Production) were involved in
the overall production. ’”’

W&L’s Cable Channel Nine is seen on
the Lexington cable system. In addition, a
closed circuit system was created within the
University’s Warner Center, allowing
competitors to watch the proceedings on a
big screen television several floors above the
Twombly Pool.

‘‘Having the telecast available helped us
relieve the congestion around the pool with
the enormous number of competitors we
had,’’ said W&L swimming coach Page
Remillard.

According to de Maria, both ESPN, a
national cable station specializing in sports

23

We Gazette

From a control center above the Cy Twombly Pool in W&L’s Warner Center, Cable Nine telecasts the

 

NCAA Division III National Swimming and Diving Championships.

programming, and WVPT, the public
television station in Harrisonburg, Va., had
originally expressed interest in telecasting the
swimming event.

‘When both of those possibilities failed
to materialize, we decided to tackle it,’’ said
de Maria. ‘‘It required a lot of technical
expertise in addition to a lot of hours.”’

Tom Tinsley, director of technical
services at W&L, served as technical
supervisor for the telecast.

Bill Parks, a senior at W&L, was the
executive producer while Bruce Young, also
a senior, was the crew chief.

Junior Chris Graham did the play-by-play
(or, in this case, stroke-by-stroke) of the
meet with Junior Dave Ridlon providing the
commentary.

 

 

University Theatre
produces two hits

The Washington and Lee University
Theatre concluded one of its finest seasons
with two memorable productions during the
winter and spring terms.

In March, the Theatre presented Man of
La Mancha, and its performances drew rave
reviews. In fact, the play was so popular that
it was held over for an additional
performance.

The Rev. Ken Langdon, a minister in
Buena Vista and a former professional actor,
was cast in the lead role of Don Quixote.

Albert Gordon, professor of fine arts,
directed the play with Gordon Spice,

24

associate professor of music, serving as
music director, Robert Stewart, professor of
music, as orchestra director, and Tom
Ziegler, assistant professor of fine arts, as
technical director and set designer.

In May, the Theatre’s offering of
Scapino, a musical-comedy adaptation of
what was originally a Moliere play, had an
unusual twist to it. Produced by the spring
term drama course known as ‘‘Total
Theatre’’ and directed by Paula Langdon,
instructor of drama, the play was set in an
Italian restaurant in Naples during the 1950s.

In efforts to make that setting as realistic
as possible, the theatre enlisted the services
of Robert J. de Maria, assistant professor of
journalism at W&L and renowned Italian
chef.

De Maria prepared his special spaghetti,
which was served to the theatre’s patrons
prior to each evening’s performance. The
audience then became part of the
performance, served by the actors and
becoming part of a ‘‘live’’ set for the play.

 

 

 

Rotary Scholars

Two Washington and Lee University
students, Scott Bond of Wheeling, W.Va.,
and Steve Corbeille of Haymarket, Va., have
been awarded Rotary Foundation Graduate
Fellowships for 1982-83.

Bond and Corbeille will begin their
postgraduate studies following their
graduation in June of 1983—Bond in
Germany and Corbeille in Australia.

 

 

Yes +, No-

Washington and Lee’s faculty voted
recently on a proposal to add plus and minus
(e.g., A+, A-, etc.) to the University’s
permanent grading system.

The result?

The motion was passed with 55 voting
Yes, 23 voting No, two voting Yes+, and
one voting No-.

 

 

Commerce fraternities
hold inductions

Washington and Lee’s chapters of Beta
Gamma Sigma, the national honor fraternity
in business administration, and Omicron
Delta Epsilon, the national honor society in
economics, held their initiation ceremonies
in May.

The Beta of Virginia Chapter of Beta
Gamma Sigma initiated six undergraduates
and one faculty member while also making
an alumnus, Robert G. Brown of Dallas,
Texas, an honorary initiate.

Brown, a 1949 graduate of Washington
and Lee, is chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of University Resources
Corporation of Dallas.

Dr. Carl P. Kaiser, assistant professor of
economics, was the faculty initiate of Beta
Gamma Sigma while the student initiates
were seniors Graham T. Burnette of
Lexington, Andrew F. Gottschalk of Lake
Forest, Ill., John E. Monroe of New Orleans
and juniors Timothy J. Elfering of Lake
Forest, Ill.; Vincent J. Fechtel of Leesburg,
Fla., and F. William Gue of Alexandria.

Omicron Delta Epsilon initiated Dr.
Bruce H. Herrick, professor of economics,
along with seniors David R. Cordell of
Oklahoma City, Robert L. Dalman of
Greenwich, Conn., Clifford T. Gordon of St.
Louis, Mo., Titus H. Harris of Houston,
David A. Nickels of Huntington, N.Y.,
Daniel L. Weiss of Chevy Chase, Md., and
junior John C. Vlahoplus of Columbia, S.C.

 

 

Ryan awarded
Mednick Grant

Dr. Halford R. Ryan, associate professor
of public speaking at Washington and Lee,
has been awarded a research grant from the
Maurice L. Mednick Memorial Fund for
study this summer.

The Mednick Memorial Fund is
administered by the Virginia Foundation for

 

Independent Colleges (VFIC), a fund-raising
consortium of 12 four-year private colleges
in the state, including Washington and Lee.

Ryan will use his Mednick research grant
to pursue studies at the Lyndon Baines
Johnson Presidential Library in Austin,
Texas.

He plans to conduct research into
President Johnson’s voting rights speech,
which Johnson delivered to a joint session of
Congress in 1965.

In addition to examining various drafts of
the speech and the contributions of Johnson’s
speechwriters to the final product, Ryan will
view videotapes to assess Johnson’s delivery
and will investigate reaction to the speech as
indicated by mail received at the White
House.

Ryan joined the faculty at Washington
and Lee in 1970. He is a graduate of Wabash
College with a master’s degree and a Ph.D.
from the University of Illinois.

The Mednick Memorial Fund was created
in 1976 after the accidental death of a young
Norfolk industrialist. His family and business
associates established the fund to perpetuate
his name and to recognize his own strong
interest in higher education.

The VFIC administers the fund to
encourage professional development of
college teachers and improve their
competence through grants for research and
advanced study and to assist highly qualified,
needy students in their upperclass years in
college.

 

 

Campus speakers

From modern art and race relations to
paper lions and white-tailed deer,
Washington and Lee enjoyed a varied lineup
of speakers during the winter and spring
terms.

Contact, the speaker symposium
conducted jointly by the student body and
the interfraternity council, sponsored lectures
by art critic Robert Hughes and author
George Plimpton.

Hughes, a senior editor of Time
magazine, presented a slide-lecture entitled
‘‘Culture as Nature—Art and Mass Media
from Cubism to Warhol.’’

Plimpton regaled his Lee Chapel
audience with tales of his forays into the
world of professional sports. The author of
Paper Lion, who became a quarterback with
the professional Detroit Lions to write one of
his books, balked when it came to taking a
turn in the goal at a practice session of the
Generals’ lacrosse team. ‘‘I really should

have tried it,’’ Plimpton said later.

The Glasgow Endowment Program
sponsored readings by two authors—Peter
Taylor and John A. Williams. Taylor, called
the American Chekhov by critics, has won
numerous awards for his short stories while
Williams is the author of eight novels,
including a new work entitled !Click Song.

The Student Association for Black Unity
at W&L brought Dr. Alvin Pouissant to the
campus in March. Pouissant is professor of
psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and
one of the nation’s most popular lecturers on
racism and race relations.

Dr. George Wald, Higgins Professor of
Biology Emeritus at Harvard University and
a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, presented a
multi-faceted lecture entitled ‘‘Life in the
University’’ during a visit to the campus
sponsored by the science departments and the
department of philosophy.

Leonard Lee Rue III, the most published
wildlife photographer in the United States,
gave a slide-lecture on white-tailed deer in
April. Rue appeared under the joint
sponsorship of the biology departments at
W&L and VMI.

The University’s innovative program in
applied ethics, ‘‘Society and the
Professions,’’ held its Legal Ethics Institute
in March and its Medical Ethics Institute in
May. Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law at
W&L, was the keynote speaker for the law

 

ie

George Plimpton ( left) gets alesson in the fine a

rt of lacrosse stick-handling during a visit to the Generals’

institute, lecturing on the topic ‘‘The Legal
Ethics of Servanthood.’’ Dr. James F.
Childress, professor of religious studies and
medical education at the University of
Virginia, spoke on ‘‘Personal Conscience
and Professional Roles’’ at the medical
institute.

Landon Butler, ’63, formerly deputy
assistant to President Jimmy Carter, visited
the campus in March and met with Professor
Milton Colvin’s seminar on ‘‘Strategic
Intelligence and National Defense Policy.’’
Butler’s presentation centered on the Panama
and Salt II treaty process.

Other participants in Colvin’s seminar
were Lt. Gen. Paul Gorman, assistant to the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Lt.
Gen. (Ret.) Sam Wilson, former head of the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and Mrs.
Josephine Fang, dean of library science at
Simmons College and an expert on Chinese
Library Holdings.

Other visitors to the campus included Dr.
Yoshiaki Shimizu, curator of Japanese art for
the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, who
gave a slide-lecture in March, Dr. Herbert A.
Simon of Carnegie-Mellon University who
led a discussion on ‘‘Computer Simulation of
Human Thought Processes’’ in February, and
retired Army Maj. Gen. George S. Patton,
son of the famous World War II Army
Commander, who addressed several
audiences during a visit in May.

 

practice field. (from left) Plimpton, Contact co-chairman Robert McLean, Mike Schuler, and Rob Staugaitis

25

The Shell Game

W&L’s Lacrosse Generals Sicced An Armadillo on North Carolina

For Washington and Lee’s varsity sports
programs, the spring of 1982 will be
remembered for the sudden appearance (and
even more sudden disappearance) of a
strange creature called the Armadillo.

First, let’s set the scene. The Generals’
lacrosse team, enjoying a better season than
anyone had expected with a 6-1 record after
six weeks, went to Charlottesville on April
18 and were mauled by the University of
Virginia, 22-8.

Six days after the Virginia game, W&L
was faced with the awesome task of playing
North Carolina, the best college lacrosse
team in America.

‘‘Qur players were down. They were
embarrassed by the Virginia game,’’ said
coach Jack Emmer. ‘‘We had to find a way
to get them back for North Carolina. ’’

Enter the Armadillo.

Devised by Emmer within the rules (as
chairman of the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse
Association rules committee Emmer knows
the rules), the Armadillo consisted of five of
W&L’s offensive players forming a tight
circle and locking their arms around a
teammate who had the ball in his stick.

The result was a simple game of
keepaway. The Generals stood in their
Armadillo while North Carolina’s puzzled
defenders stormed around the outside of the
circle and tried to find a way to get the ball
back.

Emmer’s idea was to keep his Generals in
the game by keeping the ball away from
Carolina’s high-scoring offense and to
frustrate the Tar Heels, too. Darned if it
didn’t work. Almost.

Employing the Armadillo to hold the ball
for several stretches as long as eight minutes,
the Generals grabbed a 3-0 lead, trailed 5-4
at the half, and were tied 7-7 early in the
fourth quarter before the Tar Heels finally
pulled away to an 11-8 victory.

The reaction to the Armadillo followed
predictable lines. The partisan Wilson Field
crowd, stunned and a bit bemused at the
outset, cheered mightily whenever the
Armadillo went into action. Carolina’s
players were not so amused. Nor did the
folks from the Tar Heel state appreciate it
much when anyone tried to draw
comparisons between Emmer’s Armadillo
and North Carolina basketball coach Dean

26

Members of the white-shirted Generals employ the Armadillo while North Carolina’ s players—and the two
game officials—survey the rather unusual situation.

Smith’s vaunted four corners tactic.

Even Emmer admitted that the Armadillo
probably did not belong on a lacrosse field
but defended his one-time use of the tactic by

 

 

observing that ‘‘it did just what we wanted it
to do. It gave us a chance to win the game.
After what had happened the previous week
(at Virginia), we had to do something to

 

avoid another situation like that.”’

The Armadillo became a hot topic of
conversation for days . . . even weeks. Two
days after the game the NCAA lacrosse rules
committee convened a special meeting and
made an addendum to a rule on withholding
the ball from play that, in effect, banned
Emmer’s tactic. As someone suggested, the
NCAA rules committee did to the Armadillo
what Texas motorists had been doing to the
creatures for years.

Sports pages throughout the region
carried front-page accounts of the Armadillo.
And the Richmond Times-Dispatch even
wrote an editorial about the Armadillo.
Although admitting that such delaying tactics
as the Armadillo should be outlawed, the
Times-Dispatch wrote:

‘Still, we must confess to finding poetic
justice in the W&L coach’s selection of a foe
on which to sic the Armadillo. And we are
amused by the surly reaction from the Tar
Heels, with their goalie calling the W&L
delaying tactic ‘garbage’ and their coach
threatening to drop W&L from UNC’s
schedule. Are memories so short? Only last
month another No. 1-ranked UNC team,
coached by the sainted Dean Smith, took the
air out of a basketball for the final 13
minutes of the Atlantic Coast Conference
tournament championship in order to defeat
the University of Virginia. And the Tar
Heels had no excuse of being a definite
underdog in that contest, though their coach
acted as though they were one.

‘‘Is the Armadillo, now blessedly extinct,
really so different in principle from the Polar
Bear that some basketball teams use to chill
an opponent (and fan interest) when they can
do so within the rules?’’

Though the Armadillo died a hasty death,
the W&L lacrosse team finished its season
with a flourish by winning its last three
games in a row a 9-4 record. The Generals
finished 13th in the final Division I national
poll.

 

 

Spring Sports wrapup

TRACK AND FIELD—Senior John
McKee and sophomore Angus McBryde
claimed individual titles to lead the Generals
to a third place finish in the sixth annual Old

Dominion Athletic Conference Track and
Field Championships at Wilson Field.
McKee won the shot put (45 feet, 11%
inches) while McBryde won the 1500 meter
run (4:02.48). In dual meets, the Generals
had a 7-2 record.

BASEBALL—Led offensively by second
baseman Chris Cavalline with a .340 batting
average, the Generals. posted a 9-20 record
under first-year head coach Jim Murdock.
W&L was 5-9 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference. Freshman righthander Billy
White was the top pitcher with an earned run
average of 3.69.

TENNIS—Freshmen Andy Haring, Steve
Bendheim, and Steve Irwin and senior Wes
Yonge earned runner-up honors in singles
competition to lead the Generals to a third
place finish in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Tennis Championships. The
Generals compiled a 6-17 record in dual
matches with one of the victories coming
over neighboring VMI.

GOLF—The Generals placed third in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference Golf
Championships with a 36-hole total of 613.
Senior Jim Kaplan had a 152 total in the
tournament for a fifth place finish. He and
senior Bill Alfano (154) won All-Conference

recognition. The Generals were unbeaten in
six dual matches this spring.

 

 

Sports awards

Seniors Mike Bernot and Mike Pressler
shared the Preston R. Brown Outstanding
Athlete Award given at the annual All-Sports
ceremony in May.

Senior John McKee, a standout in both
football and track, received the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship award
while wrestler Jeff Dixon won the
Outstanding Freshman Athlete award.

Bernot was a four-year letterman in water
polo and swimming while Pressler was a
four-year letter winner in football and
lacrosse. Both athletes won All-America
recognition in their respective sports as well.
Bernot claimed eight All-America citations
for performances at the 1980, 1981, and
1982 NCAA Division III Swimming
Championships. Pressler was named to the
Kodak/American Football Coaches’
Association 1981 college-division All-
America first team and to the Associated
Press 1981 college-division second team.

 

Freshman Andy Haring returns a shot during his match in the Old Dominion Athletic C onference

championships in May.

2]

Chapter News

CLEVELAND. The chapter held its annual holiday luncheon at
the Union Club on Dec. 23, 1981. Many alumni gathered to greet
and honor not only the current students at Washington and Lee but
several prospective students. Special arrangements for the meeting
were made by Tom Goss, ’80, president; he announced plans for an
annual softball game against the Wahoo alumni in the area.

DELMARVA. The weather was inclement, but an enthusiastic
group of alumni gathered for the annual celebration of Robert E.
Lee’s birthday at the Talbot Country Club in Easton on Jan. 23.
Outgoing President James Slay, ’65, made the arrangements. These
officers were elected during a brief business session. Alex P. Rasin
III, °65, of Chestertown, Md., president; Rob Taylor, ’70, of
Salisbury, Md., vice president; Ned Ames, ’61, ’64L, of
Onancock, Md., vice president; Randy Coates, ’72, of Snow Hill,
Md., secretary; and Dave Hackett, ’69L, of Lewes Beach, Del.,
treasurer. Slay reported for the Alumni Admissions Program about
current undergraduate admissions activities. He and Emie
Cornbrooks, ’67, will remain as co-chairmen of the Alumni
Admissions Program. Before the meeting was over, President Rasin
announced plans for future activities of the chapter.

ATLANTA. The fourth annual celebration of General Lee’s
birthday was held at the home of Eileen and Bo DuBose, ’62, on
Jan. 30. A large group of alumni and friends gathered to toast the
occasion. Charlie Yates, ’70, Robert Ballentine, ’79, Lane Nalley,
°74, and David Newman, ’79, provided liaison for the event. A
Lucullan repast delighted all, with good spirits prevailing
throughout the evening.

RICHMOND. | Director of Development Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58,
and his wife, Judy, were guests of the chapter on Feb. 9 at a dinner
meeting at the Bull & Bear Club. Hotchkiss reported not only on
the recent developments connected with the successful completion
of the decade-long development program but also gave a splendid
talk about those aspects of Washington and Lee which are unique
and enduring. A delicious dinner was preceded by a cocktail hour.
Among those attending were Mr. and Mrs. Peter Agelasto, ’62, a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors from Norfolk and also
University Trustee Emeritus John N. Thomas, ’24, and his wife. At
the close of the meeting outgoing President David Redmond, ’66,
"69L, gave the report of the nominating committee; these officers
were elected: J. Lee Kieger III, ’76, president; William C. French,
"73, vice president; Mark A. Putney, ’78, treasurer; and Robert B.
Priddy, ’67, secretary. Redmond expressed confidence in the new
officers and encouraged all members to participate in the very
interesting programs which were outlined for the future. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, was also present from the University.

PALMETTO. Alumni of the chapter gathered for their annual stag
dinner and business meeting on March 23 at the Forest Lake Club
in Columbia. A large crowd enjoyed cocktails and dinner in the
club’s ballroom. After dessert, Claude Walker, ’71, chapter
president, introduced Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins,

28

 

    

 

DELMARVA—Among the large group at this meeting were (kneeling) James
M. Slay,’65,’71L; R. Stewart Barroll, ’76; (standing) Ernest Cornbrooks, ’67;
Edward A. Ames, ’61, ’64L; Michael Keating, ’63; Claiborne Gooch III,
50; Thomas Kern, ’60; John Wescoat, ’64; Alex Rasin, ’65; Jeff Badger,
"SOL; and Paul Wilber, ’71, ’74L.

 

RICHMOND—Present at the Bull and Bear were J. Lee Keiger Ill, ’76;
William E. Garrison III, ’76; and Channing J. Martin, ’75, °79L.

RICHMOND—In conversation are Robert C. Peery, 41; J. Robert Cross, 54;
F. John Herrmann, '60; and Samuel J. Moore Jr., ’35.

 

68, who presented a brief update of Washington and Lee that has
become known among chapter members as the annual state of the
University report. Walker discussed developments within the
Palmetto chapter during the past year and then called on Hagood
Ellison, ’72, to make the report of the nominating committee. The
following officers were elected; Joe Walker, ’76, president; Jay
Nexsen, ’76, vice president; Les Cotter, ’80, treasurer; and Will
Newton, ’60, secretary. A good report on alumni admissions work
in the area was presented by John Folson, ’73. Joe Walker thanked
his brother Claude on behalf of the chapter for his leadership and
then re-opened the bar.

LYNCHBURG. Mrs. James Bland (Teen) Martin, Trustee
Emerita, and her husband, Jim, ’31L, were presented the 1982
Lynchburg Citation for outstanding service to Washington and Lee.
The award, one of the most prestigious awards conferred by an
alumni chapter, was presented to the Martins by Bill Washburn Jr.,
'66, the outgoing president. The Martins accepted the award with
the same grace and charm that attended all those things that they
have done for Washington and Lee over the years. Mrs. Martin was
also the principal speaker of the evening. She spoke of her
rewarding experiences as a trustee of W&L and of the joy she felt in
helping secure the future of Washington and Lee through her part in
the decade-long development program. She was introduced by
University Secretary James Whitehead. The annual banquet was
held March 26 at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, with
cocktails in the Jack Lounge and the banquet in Cheatham Hall. Bill
Washburn Jr. presided; Tom Pettyjohn, 68, ’72L, gave the
treasurer’s report, and Dr. Ed Calvert, ’44, presented the report of
the nominating committee. These officers were elected: Leyburn
Mosby Jr., 62, ’65L, president; Marc Schewel, ’69, vice president;
Pettyjohn, reelected treasurer. Others on hand to honor the Martins
were University Trustee Gordon Leggett, ’54, and Mrs. Leggett;
Secretary and Mrs. Whitehead; Dean of the College and Mrs.
William Watt; Director of Development and Mrs. Farris P.
Hotchkiss, ’58; Director of Publications and Mrs. Rom
Weatherman; Assistant Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Buddy Atkins,
68. Continuing another local tradition, Bert Schewel, ’41,
delivered his hilarious ‘‘State of the Chapter Address.’’ The
meeting concluded with Lea Booth, ’49, and his wife, Mary
Morris, leading the chapter in singing ‘‘College Friendships.’’

CHARLESTON, W.VA. President Huntley was the guest of the
chapter on March 26. Huntley first spoke to the Charleston Rotary
Club luncheon which attracted a large assembly of Charleston
business and professional men. Huntley told them his views on
education for the years ahead from the perspective of one who is
soon to give up his administrative post. Following an afternoon tour
of many of Charleston’s cultural centers, Huntley was again the
special guest at an alumni reception and dinner at the Edgewood
Country Club. A large number of alumni from Huntington,
Fayetteville, Oak Hill, Elkins, and other areas were on hand to
greet the president. The arrangements were made by Ben Bailey,
°75, chapter president; Fred Belden, ’60, treasurer; and Henry

 

 

PALMETTO—New officers are Jay Nexsen, ’76, vice president; Les Cotter,
’80, treasurer; Joe Walker, ’76, president; and Will Newton, ’60, secretary.

 

PALMETTO—John Folsom, ’73, reports to the chapter on the good work
of the Alumni Admissions Program.

 

LYNCHBURG—President Bill Washburn Jr., ’66, presents Lynchburg
Citation to Mr. and Mrs. James Bland Martin.

Chapter News

 

CHARLESTON—Happy to be present are Claude R. Hill Jr.,’54L; Robert M.
Worrell, ’47L; James C. Lyons, ’51L; and Thornton G. Berry Jr. ’34L.

 

BIRMINGHAM—Professor of Law Frederic Kirgis (second from right) with
Howard D. Leake, ’24; John V. Coe Jr., ’25; and Ralph H. Smith I, ’73.

Jernigan Jr., ’72, vice president. University Trustee I. N. Smith Jr.,
’57, introduced Huntley whose remarks about Washington and Lee
and her unique strengths and character were enthusiastically
received. At the end of the meeting, Will T. W. Brotherton Jr.,
"47, gave a toast to President Huntley, and upon a rising ovation
from all alumni, Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn led the singing of
‘*College Friendships’’ and the ‘‘W&L Swing.’’

BIRMINGHAM. A large group of alumni were present as hosts at
a cocKtail-reception and dinner in honor of Frederick L. (Rick)
Kirgis, professor of law and director of the Francis Lewis Law
Center at Washington and Lee. The meeting was held at Joe’s
Ranch House Club on March 30. The arrangements were made by
Billy Pritchard, ’76, president; the invocation was given by David
Pittman, ’75. Pritchard introduced Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn, ’40, who spoke on the situation at Washington and Lee.
The audience took special interest in the report on the search for a
successor to President Huntley, who has announed he will step
down at the end of this year. Washburn introduced Professor
Kirgis, who made an outstanding report on the unique features and
accomplishments of the law school, its students, and especially the
role of the Francis Lewis Law Center. He also reported on the work
of the committee seeking a new dean of the law school. Pritchard
concluded the meeting by telling of plans in late spring or summer
to honor those students who would be entering W&L in September.

30

 

CHARLESTON—Enjoying the fellowship are John Sadd, ’81; Harold J.
Powell, ’52; Louis Paterno, ’65,’68L; Richard D. Bradford, ’67,’70L; and
George C. Duffield, ’48.

we

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, presents
chapter certificate to J. Slade Carter Jr., ’55, president; Charles F. Porzig,
"35, Alumni Admissions Representative; and Russell L. Hewit, ’74, ’77L,
vice president.

John Scruggs, ’77, the Alumni Admissions Representative in the
Birmingham area, reported that as of that time five young men were
making plans to attend W&L. The meeting closed with a rousing
rendition of the songs ‘‘College Friendships’’ and the “‘W&L
Swing’’ supported by senior chapter members John Coe Jr., ’25,
James Hendrix, ’26, Howard Leake, ’24, and their wives.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY. Alumni of the Northern New Jersey
area gathered on April 17 for luncheon at the Glen Ridge Country
Club and received an official Certificate of Membership in the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association. A large number of
alumni and their wives were present for the presentation made by
Bill Washburn, ’40. The certificate was presented to the new
chapter president, J. Slade Carter, 55. Arrangements for the
meeting were made by Charles Porzig, ’35, who is the Alumni
Admissions Representative in the area and who was instrumental in
organizing the new chapter. Other officers of the chapter are Russell
Hewit, ’74, ’77L, vice president; George D. Higgs, ’58, treasurer;
and Earnest Mattox III, ’77, secretary. Porzig introduced a number
of the new students who had been offered admission to Washington
and Lee, many of whom were accompanied by their parents. Bill
Washburn spoke briefly about the state of the University and gave a
profile of the freshman class entering next fall. President Carter said
plans for the future chapter meetings would be mailed to all
members.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.o.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

1918

ALLEIN BEALL JR. has been awarded honorary life
membership in the Southern Seedsmens Association.
The award was presented at the association’s conven-
tion in New Orleans in November 1981.

1925

Dr. WILLIAM L. WooLFOLK of Owensboro, Ky., is
an officer of the prestigious discussion group of retired
professional and business men that meets each week
in the Owensboro-Daviess County Library. Recently
Dr. Luther W. White III, ’49L, president of Kentucky
Wesleyan College was invited to address the group
on the topic ‘‘Yorktown and the Last Days of the
American Revolution. ”’ Henry M. Wilson, ’26, is
president of the discussion group.

1926

CHARLES W. Lowry is author of a book, William
Temple: An Archbishop for all Seasons, which is to
be published shortly by the University Press of
America. The book is a biographical study of Temple,
who was a friend of Lowry’s.

1928

GERALD F. HorineE retired some years ago from Ford
Motor Co. He is active in community affairs as a
member of the Alexandria (Va.) Hospital Corp. and
as a director of the Alexandria Red Cross.

1929

HENRY POELLNITZ JOHNSTON Sr. has established
the George Doherty Johnston Memorial Endowed
Library Support Fund at the University of Alabama to
honor the memory of his grandfather, Brig. Gen.
George Doherty Johnston, who was Commandant of
Cadets at the University of Alabama from 1871 to
1873. In recognition of this gift a resolution to John-
ston was made by the board of trustees of the Univer-
sity of Alabama.

ALLEN B. MorGawn, of Memphis, Tenn., was selected
to receive the brotherhood award from the National
Conference of Christians and Jews. Morgan is honor-
ary chairman of First Tennessee National Corp. and
past chairman and president of the bank. He is a past
president of the Chamber of Commerce and has also
been active with the Memphis Arts Council, United
Way, Future Memphis, the Memphis Cotton Carni-
val, and the Lebonheur Children’s Hospital.

1932

EL! H. FINK, a prominent attorney in Jacksonville,
Fla., has been inducted into the Jacksonville Sports
Hall of Fame. The ceremony took place in April at the
Civic Auditorium Exhibition Hall. In high school,
Fink held the Florida state high school record in the
220-yard dash and the 220-yard low hurdles. At
Washington and Lee, he tied the world record in the
70-yard low hurdles in 1931. And while he was in
law school Fink broke the Southern Conference record
in the 70-yard high hurdles in winning the conference

a1

 

indoor meet in 1933. He has been most active in civic
affairs in the Jacksonville community.

Woopson B. GILLOCK of Waynesboro, Va., has
been elected president for 1982 of the Blue Ridge
Chapter of the American Association of Retired Per-
sons.

1933

EDWIN W. CHITTUM retired in 1975 as superintendent
of schools in Chesapeake, Va. He is now chairman of
the board of First Virginia Bank of Tidewater and
vice chairman of Eastern Virginia Medical School.

1934

Dr. Norwoop E. BAND is founder and headmaster
of Bayside School, an independent elementary school
in Northfield, N.J. During the regular school year, 34
students from ages 6 to 16 are enrolled. During the
summer, Bayside becomes a camp for approximately
the same number of children for a recreational pro-
gram. According to Band, ‘‘The aim of all education
should be to instill the desire to learn.’’ He has
written several books and essays in which he expresses
this theory.

SAM M. ENGELHARDT Jr. retired Dec. 31, 1981,
from Alabama Power Co. He lives in Montgomery.

DANIEL B. STARTSMAN of Terrace Park, Ohio, con-
tinues as president of the Columbus Plate and Window
Glass Co. He also serves as accountant for Murre
Building Materials Co. of Cincinnati.

1935

JOHN B. NICHOLSON Jr. is now retired and lives in
Baltimore. He had served 47 years as a librarian and a
library director at Duke University, Dickinson Col-
lege, Kent State University, and the University of
Baltimore.

Ext H. FInk (See 1932.)

1938

Dr. T. HART BAKER retired as medical director of
Southern California Permanente Medical Group ef-
fective Jan. 1, 1982. He continues to do obstetrics
and gynecology work. He lives in Laguna Niguel,
Calif.

CmpR. WILLIAM H. Byrn of Cobbs Creek, Va., is
retired but continues to be very active. He is president
of the Middle Peninsula Community Concert
Association and is a member of the race committee of
the Fishing Bay Yacht Club. He is Mathews County
delegate to the State Republican Convention and is
teaching a class in sailing at Rappahannock Com-
munity College.

WILLIAM T. LONG and his wife, the former Mary
Elizabeth Bradley of Fort Worth, recently celebrated
their 52nd wedding anniversary. Long has spent most
of his life as a cattle rancher in Borden County,

32

Dr. William Woolfolk, ’25; Dr.
Luther W. White IIT, ’49; and
Henry M. Wilson, ’26. (See 1925,
p. 31.)

Texas. He retired in 1964 due to injuries received in
World War II.

J. HIRAM SmITH retired in July 1981 from Kentucky
Geological Survey. He lives in Lexington, Ky.

ROBERT M. WHITE II, a past member of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Board of Directors, was cited
by Missouri Military Academy and the cadet corps
during a special battalion review in April. White,
who has been a trustee of Missouri Military Academy
for over 34 years, was named to membership in the
President’s Society for ‘‘sustained and substantial
support of the school.’’ Well-known in state and
national journalism, White is the third member of his
family to serve as editor-publisher of the Mexico
Ledger. White was editor of the New York Herald-
Tribune, director of the Associated Press, and jour-
nalism juror for the Pulitzer Prize. He is also past
national president of the Society of Professional Jour-
nalists (Sigma Delta Chi), and the Sigma Delta Chi
Foundation. He is a past board member of the Ameri-
can Newspaper Association.

1939

RODNEY L. ODELL, a retired newspaper editor, is
living on his yacht in St. Augustine, Fla. A member
of the St. Augustine Yacht Club, he spends his win-
ters there but cruises northward each summer.

JOHN B. Furr retired in June 1981 from the employee
relation department of Ethyl Corp. in Baton Rouge,
La.

1940
HOWARD T. SHEPHERD, who retired as vice president
of Worthen Bank & Trust in Little Rock in 1980, has
now joined Union National Bank as financial planner
and personal trust counselor.

194]

SAMUEL O. PRuITT JR. is in his 35th year of practice
with the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in Los
Angeles. He specializes in corporate and business
litigations. Pruitt has served as president of the State
Bar of California, the Los Angeles Bar Foundation,
and the Chancery Club of Los Angeles.

1942

W. MARSHALL JOHNSON, Virginia sports editor for
The Associated Press, has been presented the 1982
Meritorious Service Award by the Virginia High
School Athletic Directors’ Association. The pres-
entation was made at a banquet in Williamsburg
during the association’s 10th annual conference. The
Meritorious service award is given annually ‘‘to a
person outside the field of athletic administration
who has made a tremendous contribution to inter-
scholastic athletics.’’ Johnson joined the Associated
Press in Richmond in September 1949 and has been
Virginia sports editor since 1970. Before joining the
AP he was editor of the Manassas Journal. He had
worked briefly for the Lynchburg News.

1943

RICHARD J. BROMLEY is a stockbroker with Bache
Halsey Stuart & Shield. He lives in Freeport, N.Y.

1944

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN has taken early retirement
as group Vice president of the North American Rein-
surance Corp. and vice president Swiss Re Manage-
ment Corp. after a 30-year career in the insurance and
reinsurance industry. Crittenden joined the claims
department of North American Reinsurance in 1965.
He was elected claims group vice president in 1975.
During his 17-year career with North American Re,
Crittenden pioneered the use of many innovative
claims techniques. Crittenden began his career in
1951 with Chubb & Son and in 1959 he joined Home
Insurance Co. He is a member of the American Bar
Association and in 1979-80 served as first chairman
of its Reinsurance Law Committee of the Torts and
Insurance Section. He and his wife, Katharine, reside
in Westfield, N.J.

1945

DouGLas W. Boortu has been elected president and
chief operating officer for Duke Power Co. Booth
joined Duke Power as an assistant engineer in 1952
and assumed the position of executive vice president
in January 1976. After serving in the Navy during
World War II, Booth returned to the University of
Alabama to complete his degree in electrical engi-
neering. From 1947 to 1952 he was an instructor in
the University of Alabama School of Electrical Engi-
neering and a sales engineer with General Electric
Co. Booth is active in community and state affairs.
He is a trustee for the Charlotte Council on Alcohol-
ism, amember of the scientific advisory committee to
the North Carolina Selective Service Board, a trustee
of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, a
trustee of the Alexander Children’s Center, and a
trustee of the Charlotte Nature Museum. He has served
as chairman of the marketing division executive com-
mittee of the Southeastern Electric Exchange, the
trade association of southern electric utilities. Booth
and his wife, the former Emily Dabney of Jackson,
Tenn., have two daughters.

DavibD L. JONES, president of a New York manage-
ment consultant firm, has been appointed by President
Reagan as co-chairperson of the Peace Corps Advisory
Council. Prior to starting his own company in 1944,
Jones served as director of product management for
the American Home Products Co. in New York City.
From 1969 to 1975 he was vice president and general
manager of SuCrest Corp. Earlier, Jones was a direc-
tor of new products at the Pepsi Cola Co. in Purchase,
N.Y., and from 1957 to 1964 was vice president for
marketing at the Mettler Instrument Corp., which
was headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. Currently
there are approximately 5,000 Peace Corps volunteers
assigned to more than 60 countries.

WILLARD F. SEARLE Jr., chairman of Searle Con-
sortium Ltd. of Alexandria, Va., has been elected to
membership in the National Academy of Engineering

 

  

i>

D. R. Marsh, ’46 W. N. Shearer, ’49
of the United States of America. The Searle Con-
sortium Ltd. is known for its worldwide leadership in
the development and application of ocean engineering
technologies to marine rescue and salvage. Election
to the academy honors those who have made impor-
tant contributions to engineering theory and practice.

1946

DoN R. MarsH has been appointed Baltimore district
sales manager for the Spencer Kellogg Division of
Textron, Inc. Marsh spent the last 10 years as a
manufacturer’s representative with the Stern and
Marsh Co., covering Maryland, Virginia and Wash-
ington, D.C., areas. He will continue to service the
same area for Spencer Kellogg. Marsh joined Textron
in the purchasing department in 1948 at the company’s
Buffalo headquarters. He was appointed Baltimore
district sales manager in 1966.

WILLIAM (BILL) OLENDORF, a Chicago-based artist,
had an exhibit of his oils, sketches, and prints at the
Winthrop Gallery-Georgetown in Washington, D.C..,
in March. Olendorf’s paintings and sketches are in-
cluded in such outstanding collections as Galerie
Marcel Bernheim in Paris, Cogswell Gallery in San
Francisco, Galerie Benita in Mykonos, and the
Chicago Zoo Gallery.

1947

ROGER L. CAMPBELL is an attorney on St. Thomas
Island, where he also teaches law at the College of
Virgin Islands. He is a member of the Virgin Islands
Commission on Ethics and a member of the Council
of the Arts. As a hobby he is an amateur radio opera-
tor.

BERNARD F. Jupy is editor of The Toledo (Ohio)
Blade newspaper.

ROBERT A. WARMS, an executive with Morton B.
Shull Inc., in Philadelphia, Pa., has been elected
president of the Specialty Advertising Counselors of
Delaware Valley for 1982.

T. W. SOMMER has retired to Loveland, Colo., after
28 years as an attorney with the Internal Revenue
Service. He and his wife have three daughters and
one son.

1948

JAMES M. BALLENGEE, rector of the Board of Trustees
of Washington ana Lee University and chairman and
chief executive officer of Enterra Corporation of
Radnor, Pa., has beer ejected to the board of directors
of the Bell Telephone Cu. of Pennsylvania. Ballengee
is a director of Enterra, Berwind Corporation, and
Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Co. He is a trustee of
the Philadelphia Saving Fund Society. He is also a
trustee of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, co-chair-
man of the Greater Philadelphia Partnership, and a
director and past chairman of the Greater Philadelphia
Chamber of Commerce.

WALTOW W. KINGsBERY has been promoted to Area

   

IV Managing Partner for Price Waterhouse. He has
been transferred from Cleveland, Ohio, and now
resides in Rolling Hills, Calif.

A. M. PITCHER is opening a law office in Pittsburgh,
Pa., after taking early retirement as senior chief
counsel for Westinghouse Electric Corp.

1949

THOMAS S. Hook, author of several books on aviation
and private flying, is acting chief of the Public Enquiry
Center at the Federal Aviation Administration in
Washington, D.C. In March, he was made a member
of the Baltimore Hangar of Quiet Birdman.

WILLIAM M. KINNAIRD is an active conference
speaker, teacher, and radio commentator. He holds
seminars on various subjects, including ‘‘How to
Cope with Life’s Heaviest Problems.’’ A resident of
Atlanta, Ga., he has recently written a book entitled
The Promise of Hope.

WILLIAM N. SHEARER, who joined Kanawha Banking
and Trust Co. of Charleston, W.Va., in 1967 as
president and director, has recently been promoted to
chairman of the board. In 1973, he organized Teays
Valley National Bank and currently serves as its
president and director. He began his banking career
in 1949 in Roanoke, Va., at First National Exchange
Bank. He was active in the development of that bank
into a holding company, Dominion Bankshares.
Shearer is credited in the industry with introducing to
Charleston banking daily interest on savings, daily
interest on Christmas club accounts, bank credit
cards, repurchase agreements, and ‘‘sweep’’ ac-
counts. He graduated from the Rutgers University
Graduate School of banking and the senior bank
officer’s school at Harvard. Shearer is a trustee and a
member of the executive and finance committees of
the University of Charleston, a director of Clay Com-
munications Inc., a former director of the Charleston
Chamber of Commerce, and a former president of the
Kanawha Valley United Way. He and his wife, Ruth,
have two children.

1950

GEORGE W. (TuT) GINN is a geological consultant
and recently spent some time in Hawaii.

FRANK M. SCARLETT is minister of The Old First
Church, a United Presbyterian Church in San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

JOHN E. Topp retired from the Army in 1964 after
nearly 22 years of service. He received a bachelor of
science degree from the University of Maryland in
1965 and a masters of education degree from the
University of Virginia in 1973. He was awarded a
degree of education specialist by the University of
Virginia in 1976. He now enjoys farming and cattle
raising on a 300 acre farm near Greenville, Va.

JAMES T. TRUNDLE has joined Halloran Equities as
an account executive. Halloran Equities owns and
operates the Halloran Plaza in Pennsauken, N.J.

ROBERT VAN BurREN, chairman of the board of Mid-
lantic Banks Inc., in New Jersey, was featured in the
business section of the November 1981 issue of the
New Jersey Monthly. Midlantic Banks is one of the
five largest banks in New Jersey because of its ag-
gressive posture in buying up existing banks. The
bank’s seven subsidiary banks now have 128 branches
throughout the state. Midlantic has been the driving
force behind the state’s two glittering areas—Atlantic
City and the Meadowlands. Van Buren is responsible
for the bank’s growth and particularly the bank’s
aggressive image-building campaign.

1951

Guy B. HAMMOND, a professor at Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va.,
is president of the North American Paul Tillich Society
and will attend the society’s meeting in Kassel, West
Germany, where he will deliver a paper.

WILSON H. LEar continues as manager for Champion
International’s Building Products Division with
offices in Columbia, S.C. He is state treasurer of the
South Carolina Mental Health Association and is
active in the Presbyterian church, the Rotary Club,
and the YMCA.

ROBERT H. SALISBURY, professor of political science
at Washington University in St. Louis, has been
named to the Sidney W. Souers Professorship of
American Government. Salisbury joined the Wash-
ington University faculty in 1955. He served as de-
partment chairman from 1966 to 1973 and was direc-
tor of the Center for Study of Public Affairs from
1974 to 1976.

RICHARD B. TAYLOR who lives in Rancho Mirage,
Calif. , is a genealogical hobbyist. He was featured in a
segment of the PM Magazine television program,
which was taped at his home and aired during this
past Christmas season.

1952

FRANK BARRON, secretary of Rome (Ga.) Coca-Cola
Bottling Co., became president of the Georgia
Chamber of Commerce in April. Barron is a former
president of the Rome Area Chamber of Commerce.
He served three years in the Navy before joining
Coca-Cola in 1956. Barron is an officer and director
of several companies in Cedartown, Carrollton, Car-
tersville, Dalton, Fort Valley, Valdosta and Rome.
He has a record of civic leadership, including the
Jaycees which elected him as ‘‘Young Man of the
Year in 1960.’’ Barron has been a director of Rome
Boys’ Club, the Foundation of Independent Colleges,
the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce, the Na-
tional City Bank of Rome, and the Shorter College
Scholarship Development Fund. He is also on the
board of trustees at Berry College and at Darlington
School.

Circuit Judge WILLIAM G. Fuqua of Russellville,
Ky., was honored for his economic development
efforts by the Southern Industrial Development
Council representing 16 southeastern states. The

33

 

a

C. R. Lovegrove, ’53

ill,

ceremony took place recently at the Council’s annual
meeting in Florida. Fuqua was named ‘‘Volunteer of
the Year’’ and is the first Kentuckian to win the
award. He served many years as chairman of the
Russellville-Logan County Chamber of Commerce
and was active for 20 years in recruiting industry,
culminating in the establishment of a large Anaconda
Aluminum Co. plant in the county recently.

THOMAS G. GARDNER of Manassas, Va., is a salesman
with Equitable Life Insurance Co. Last year he took
31 days off for a motorcycle trip to Key West, Fla.

Kart P. WarDEN, a former professor of law at
Vanderbilt University, is now dean of the school of
law at the University of North Dakota in Great Forks.

JOSEPH B. YANITY JR., a prominent attorney in
Athens, Ohio, received from fellow football officials
a trophy and a game football after completing a 20-
year career in the collegiate ranks last November.
When Yanity officiated in the football game between
Dayton and Augustana, IIl., it marked the end of
more than a quarter-century of football officiating.
His career had started in 1954 at the high school level
and gradually drifted into the collegiate ranks begin-
ning in 1962. While he worked in both high school and
college for several years, he settled on college games
only in 1971. His collegiate career as an official
Started in September 1962 in a game between Mar-
shall and Findlay College of Ohio. Before his college
officiating career ended, Yanity had traveled through
16 states and officiated in 166 games involving 65
colleges and universities from 31 states. Yanity
officiated in such conferences as the Big Ten, Eastern
Collegiate Athletic Association, Atlantic Conference,
Southern, Southeastern, Missouri Valley, Ohio
Valley, Southwest, Southland, Big Sky, and Pacific
Coast. His last game between Dayton-Augustana was
in the NCAA Division III playoffs.

1953

MARRIAGE: HENRY W. Grapy Jr. and Carol C.
Landers on Dec. 26, 1981.

WILLIAM M. HOL_tis Jr. has taken early retirement
after 20 years of teaching at Drexel University, and
will devote full time to painting and writing. He has
another book, Sketches for a Mayan Odyssey, which
he expects to have published later in 1982. In addition,
Hollis will give readings and have exhibits at Florida
Southern College this October. He currently resides
in Berwyn, Pa.

C. RICHARD LOVEGROVE, formerly public information
Supervisor in the public affairs department of the
Appalachian Power Co., has become the public affairs
director of Kentucky Power Co. in Ashland, Ky. The
Appalachian and the Kentucky Power companies are
affiliates in the American Electric Power System.
After working as a reporter for WREL Radio in
Lexington, the Waynesboro News-Virginian, and the
Staunton News-Leader, Lovegrove joined Ap-
palachian as a feature writer in 1953. He attended the
Management training program at the University of

34

  

I. N. Smith Jr... °57, '60L

   

Michigan in 1967. For the past 15 years, Lovegrove
has been managing editor of the monthly newspaper
of the Episcopal Diocese of Southwestern Virginia.
He is a past member of the Roanoke Jaycees and a
past publicity chairman of the Roanoke Metro of the
National Alliance of Businessmen. Lovegrove and
his wife have three children.

JOHN B. WHEELER, in addition to his teaching re-
sponsibilities, is interim rector at All Hallows’ Parish
in Davidsville, Md.

1954

Dr. DANIEL D. DICKENSON, administrator of West-
minster-Canterbury in Virginia Beach, Va., presided
over the semi-annual meeting of the advisory com-
mittee of the Presbyterian Office on Aging in Atlanta,
Ga., in April. The committee, for which Dr. Dicken-
son has served as president since September 1981,
advises both the Presbyterian Church in the United
States and the United Presbyterian Church on pro-
grams of ministry to the elderly.

1955

I. THOMAS BAKER, president of Baker Real Estate
and Insurance Co. in Lexington, Va., is also with the
Baker and Van Natten Construction Co.

THE REV. FRANK G. GIBSON JR. is executive director
of the Metropolitan Ecumenical Ministry, which is
engaged in a justice- and peace-making ministry in
the Greater Newark, N.J., area. Gibson met his wife,
Marie, in Italy where he was an Army transportation
officer in the late 1950s. Following military service,
Gibson did fraternal work with the Waldersian Church
in Italy and did graduate studies at Union Theological
Seminary in New York City. He served the United
Presbyterian Church in Rochester, N.Y., and Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.

1956

LAWRENCE K. ANTHONY Jr. was featured in an
article on the arts in Southwestern Today, the news
publication of Southwestern at Memphis. Anthony
has been chairman of the art department at South-
western for 20 years and is a nationally known sculp-
tor.

JOHN K. AURELL is a partner in the Tallahassee, Fla.,
law firm of Holland and Knight.

ROBERT DUVAL is currently chief of administration,
Clayton Mental Health Center in Riverdale, Ga.

JOHN A. McQuiIGGaN, who is associated with the
Unity Theatre Co. in New York City, is one of five
theatre professionals selected to serve on the Yale
University Drama Council. His service is for a five-
year period. The council is charged with overseeing
the well-being of the major educational areas and
activities of the university.

JOHN S. MELOoy, former president of Cornish Con-
tainers, Inc., of Maumee, Ohio, is now manager of a

sports complex in Perrysburg, Ohio. He and his wife,
Cynthia, have two sons.

SAMUEL A. SyME Jr. is owner and manager of Serv-
ices Unlimited, a catering firm in Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Dr. WILLIAM SAMS TUNNER is a urologist in Rich-
mond. He and his wife, Sallie, have two sons.

1957

CHARLES F. Davis Jr. has joined the international
banking department of the Bank of Montreal. He
expects to move his family to Toronto in June.

E. GERALD (JERRY) HOPKINS has published his | 1th
book, an illustrated history of the hula. His books,
Elvis: The Final Years, and a biography of rock
singer Jim Morrison, No One Here Gets Out Alive,
were both best sellers. Hopkins and his wife have
three children, and the family lives in Honolulu. |

CHARLES B. HumPTON Jr. has been appointed vice
president in charge of the personal trust division of
the Philadelphia National Bank.

Dr. THOMAS V. LITZENBURG JR., executive director
for policy of the Association of American Universities
(AAU), has been named president of Salem Academy
and Collége of Winston-Salem, N.C. From 1964 to
1974, Litzenburg was on the faculty and administra-
tion staff of Wells College in Aurora, N.Y., where he
taught religion and philosophy and was special assis-
tant to the president. He was with the National En-
dowment for the Humanities from 1975 to 1981 and
was assistant chairman from 1979 until his move to
the AAU. He received a bachelor of divinity degree
from Yale University Divinity School and a master’s
degree from Princeton. He received the Yale Tew
Prize in 1961 and was named a Princeton Fellow in
1962 and a Danforth Fellow from 1957 to 1963. He
and his wife, Jayne, have one son.

I. N. SMitH JR., amember of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee University, has been named
president and chief executive officer of the Kanawha
Banking and Trust Co., N.A. in Charleston, W.Va.
He joined Kanawha Bank in 1960 as trust assistant
and was promoted through several executive posi-
tions. In 1978, he was elected executive vice presi-
dent. Smith was graduated from the graduate school
of trusts at Northwestern University in 1962 and the
graduate school of banking at Rutgers University in
1972. His grandfather, father, and great uncle have
been former presidents of Kanawha Banking and
Trust. Smith, a member of the West Virginia State
Bar and the West Virginia Bar Association, is presi-
dent of the Kanawha City Co., West Virginia Coal
Land Co., and Kanawha Co. and is secretary-treasurer
of Roxalana Land Co. Smith is active in civic and
community affairs and is a board member of Sunrise,
YMCA, Goodwill Industries, Kanawha County
Planning and Zoning Commission, Junior Achieve-
ment, and Bidco. He was chairman of the United
Way Campaign in 1972. He and his wife, Stuart,
have four children.

 

1958

Dr. WILLIAM R. GoopMaN JR. is associate professor
of religious studies and advisor to international stu-
dents at Lynchburg (Va.) College. In 1981 he visited
international schools in France, England, and Canada.
He also is co-author of a book, Jerry Falwell: An
Unauthorized Profile.

JOHN GILL HOLLAND, professor of English at David-
son College, directed a team-taught course for under-
graduates on the rise of professions in the United
States. Funding for the project, which was in its
second year last winter, came from a Ford Foundation
research grant through the Association of American
Colleges. Holland and his family will be at Cambridge
University in the summer of 1982, where he is in
charge of the Davidson Summer Program at Wolfson
College.

W. PHILIP LAUGHLIN has recently moved to Denver,
Colo., where he is the project manager for Exxon on
the Colony Shale Oil Project. Laughlin and his wife,
Judy, have two daughters.

EDGAR H. MacKiIn ay has merged his Norfolk law
practice with a Richmond firm into the Norfolk law
firm of Seawell, Dalton, Hughes and Timms with
offices in Norfolk and Richmond.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR., a member of the legal staff
for Kroger Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio, has been promoted
to colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve. He is staff
Judge Advocate, 83rd U.S. Army Reserve Command,
and is a graduate of the Army Command and General
Staff College. O’Brien is treasurer of the Appalachian
Community Development Association in Cincinnati
and vice president of the Alliance Francaise.

1959

CHARLES F. Davis Jr. (See 1957.)

1960

FREDERICK H. BELDEN Jr. has been promoted to the
position of senior vice president and senior trust
officer of Kanawha Valley Bank, in Charleston,
W.Va. Belden joined Kanawha in 1968 as personnel
director. Prior to Kanawha he was with Ted Bates
Advertising Co. in New York, Compton Advertising
in New York, and Allstate Insurance Co. in Harrison,
N.Y. Belden is active in the Charleston community
as trustee and chairman of the distributions committee
and a member of the Greater Kanawha Valley
Foundation. He is a board member of the Fun For The
Arts and serves on the long range planning committee
and the personnel committee of the Sunrise Museum.
He also has served as a member of the administrative
committee of the West Virginia Bankers Association
Pension Plan. He and his wife, Betty, have two
children.

GRAYFRED B. Gray is now serving under a joint
appointment as associate professor at the University
of Tennessee College of Law in Knoxville and as

chief legal counsel of the Tennessee Department of
Mental Health and Mental Retardation in Nashville.
He is directing a comprehensive study of the mental
health code.

RANDOLPH B. KILMON has been elected vice presi-
dent of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., an investment
counsel firm serving an international clientele with
offices in Baltimore, Md. Kilmon joined T. Rowe
Price in 1982 as an investment analyst after working
as a senior security analyst with Loomis Sayles & Co.
since 1965. He is a chartered financial analyst.

H. GERALD (JERRY) SHIELDS is the director of guid-
ance at Collegiate Boy’s School in Richmond, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr. (See 1958.)

I. N. SmitH Jr. (See 1957.)

1961

Dr. JOHN R. AMBROSE, an associate professor in the
department of materials science and engineering at
the University of Florida in Gainesville, has recently
been elected the assistant secretary-treasurer for the
southeast region of the National Association of Cor-
rosion Engineers. He is a registered professional en-
gineer in Florida and has worked in that field since
1964, when he started working for the Newport News
Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.

HAYES I. GorDON, recently promoted to the rank of
captain, is war gaming director at the Naval War
College in Newport, R.I.

W. STANLEY (SANDY) Proctor, who has been co-
owner and manager of his family’s heating oil and
fuel business in Tallahassee, Fla., has now become a
full-time artist, turning a hobby into a career. Proctor
was featured in the Spring 1982 issue of Southern
Accents. His success ina very short period of time has
been remarkable. Two of his watercolors have been
selected for limited edition printings, and his work
has appeared in several national wildlife publications.
For the past three years he has been invited to exhibit
at such prestigious bird art events as the Bird Art
Exhibition of the Leigh Yawkey Woodson Art
Museum in Wausau, Wisc. and the Eastern Water-
fowl Festival in Easton, Md. In addition he is repre-
sented by major galleries such as: Crossroad of Sports,
New York; Collectors Covey, Dallas; Sports Art,
New Orleans; and Soaring Wings, Salem, Ore. Proc-
tor works in his studio on his 300-acre farm, Burgess-
town, an antebellum plantation. He and his wife,
Melinda, have three children.

Dr. CHARLES P. RILEY is director of cardiology at the
Sacred Heart Hospital in Pensacola, Fla. He is a
partner of Cardiology Associates, P.A. He and his
wife, Suzie, have two sons.

1962

R. Roy GOODwIn II has been named assistant vice
president of Merrill Lynch & Co. in the firm’s Au-

gusta, Ga., office. Goodwin joined Merrill Lynch in
1965.

Harry F. Kurz has joined Marketing Corporation of
America, Inc., in Westport, Conn., as managing
director of the consulting division. Previously he had
been president of Norton Simon Inc.’s wine division.
He continues to reside in New York City with his
wife, Gloria.

ROBERT L. STONE is a partner in the Pensacola, Fla.,
law firm of Harrell, Wiltshire, Stone and Swearingen.
He is chairman of the grievance committee for the Ist
Judicial District of Florida and writes questions for
the state bar exam. Stone is also a trustee of the
Historic Preservation Board of Pensacola and is active
in other community and church activities.

1963

RUFUS K. BARTON III is vice president and a member
of the board of directors of Jennings Petroleum Corp.
He is also president of Jennings Programs, Inc.,
which is an oil and gas investment firm. He lives in
Grosse Point, Mich.

WILLIAM H. CaNnDLeER, formerly the editor and pub-
lisher of Metro Magazine, a regional magazine for
the Tidewater section of Virginia, has joined The
Dixon Group, a Norfolk advertising agency. He con-
tinues to have a strong interest in the magazine pub-
lishing business.

ROBERT G. HOLLAND has been named by Virginia

Gov. Charles S. Robb to the first Governor’s Council
on Physical Fitness and Sports. The council has gen-
eral responsibility for improving physical fitness op-
portunities for all citizens of Virginia; it will encour-
age new and innovative plans for physical fitness for
schools, businesses, industry, senior citizens, and
government workers. Holland is an editorial writer
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch and a physical
fitness advocate. A long-distance runner, he was a
finisher on May | in the 2nd annual Richmond Iron
Man Triathlon. The contest consisted of a 35-mile
bike ride, a one-mile swim, and a 10-mile run.

KEN C. KowaLskI has completed his Certified Life
Underwriters classification and represents Massa-
chusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Lynchburg,
Va. He is a member of the Million Dollar Round
Table and the Massachusetts Mutual Leader Club.

CHARLES S. (CHUCK) LANE, who served as public
relations director for the Green Bay Packers between
1966 and 1980, has been appointed sports information
and promotions coordinator for the University of
Wisconsin-Green Bay. In making the appointment
associate chancellor Donald F. Harden said that
‘“Lane’s 19 years of experience in promoting and
advertising athletics, along with his excellent contacts
among the media people of our region, will be an
asset to our program.”’

THomas P. McDavin is vice president and manager
of the corporate banking department at Union Trust

35

Class Notes

Co. of Maryland in Baltimore. He and his wife,
Sallie, have three children.

J. HOLMES MorrISsONn is executive vice president of
Kanawha Valley Bank, in Charleston, W.Va. Morri-
son joined Kanawha in 1967. Prior to that he had
practiced law in Charleston. He has held several
positions in Kanawha including trust investment of-
ficer, vice president and senior trust officer, and most
recently the position of senior vice president and
senior trust officer. Morrison is involved in many
community affairs and organizations. He is past
president of the West Virginia Bankers Association
Trust Division, vice president of the Charleston Estate
Planning Council, and a member of the West Virginia,
Kanawha County, and the American Bar Associa-
tions. He and his wife, Antoinette, have two children.

MICHAEL J. SHANK, formerly assistant rector of Grace
Church in Merchantville, N.J., has become rector of
Holy Trinity Episcopal Church in Collingswood, N.J.

H. MICHAEL WALKER of Norfolk was recently elected
to the Tidewater regional board of the First & Mer-
chants National Bank.

1964

JOHNNY P. Epwarps Jr. has been named vice presi-
dent of corporate communications for Public Service
Indiana, an electric utility firm in Plainfield, Ind. He
had been corporate manager of community affairs for
Caterpillar Tractor Co. of Peoria, Ill. He is responsible
for communications with Public Service Indiana em-
ployees, the media, and the public. Edwards graduated
with honors from George Washington University
School of Law in 1971. He and his wife, Mary, have
two children, Robb, 8, and Peter, 4.

S. WALTON Maurras of Fort Smith, Ark., advises
that he hunts frequently with Robert A. Young III,
"62, and boasts that he bags ‘‘most of his game for
him.”’

JOHN MICHAELSEN is president of Capital Advisors,
a San Diego, Calif., real estate development firm
involved in developing office buildings and shopping
centers. Also, Michaelsen coaches a softball team of
which his daughter, Tina, age 10, is a member.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK continues to work at the Ar-
gonne National Laboratory with the Applied Geo-
science and Engineering Group of the Energy and
Environmental Systems Divisions.

LESLIE C. RUCKER JR. is with Chesapeake & Potomac
Telephone Co. and has served on its headquarters
staff for more than three years. He and his wife and
two daughters reside in Montgomery County, Md.

WILLIAM M. ScuiLptT, who for eight years was at
Washington and Lee as an administrator and instructor
and more recently assistant dean and assistant pro-
fessor of law, is now in the private practice of law in
his hometown of Hagerstown, Md. In between his
academic posts, Schildt worked for the Baltimore law

36

  

J. P. Edwards Jr., ’64

 

firm of Miles and Stockbridge, taking leave of absence
to work in the office of the U.S. Attorney in Balti-
more.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GUSTAVE R. DuBus III, a
daughter, Joanna Claire, on May 12, 1981, in Sa-
vannah, Ga. Dubus recently completed a two-year
term as president of the Savannah Humane Society
and a year as president of the Propeller Club of the
U.S., Port of Savannah.

A. J. T. (AL) BYRNE has been appointed senior vice
president and general manager for INA Corporation’s
Investment Group. INA recently announced a merger
with Connecticut General Corp. Byrne lives in St.
David, Pa.

Dr. EUGENE W. GREEN JR. is in the private practice
of internal medicine and cardiology with affiliations
at Tufts University Medical School. He lives in Win-
chester, Mass.

STEPHEN HIBBARD who lives in Weston, Mass., is
now in the public finance department of the First
National Bank of Boston. He has been involved in
selling municipal bonds for various firms over the last
several years.

Dr. ROBERT E. LEE is president of the Michigan
Society of Licensed Psychologists.

ROBERT T. MITCHELL JR. has been named president
of the Virginia Trial Lawyers Association. The asso-
Ciation is a statewide bar group with 2,400 members.
Mitchell, a member of the association’s board of
governors for more than 12 years, is a partner in the
Winchester and Leesburg law firm of Hall, Monahan,
Engle, Mahan & Mitchell. He is also the vice chairman
of the Winchester School Board.

THE REv. WILFRED B. WEBB JR. recently became
minister of Salem (Va.) Presbyterian Church. The
historical church has been placed on the National
Register of Historic Places. Webb earned his master’s
degree from Union Seminary in Richmond, Va., and
his doctorate from San Francisco Theological Semi-
nary. Before moving to Salem, he served pastorates
in Florida for 13 years.

ROBERT L. STONE (See 1962.)

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SYDNEY LEwIS JR., a son,
David, on Dec. 14, 1981. Lewis is the operator of a
chain of outlet clothing stores, The General Store, in
the Washington, D.C., area.

BIRTH: Lt. Cov. and Mrs. RANDOLPH T. PooreE, a
daughter, Julie Ann, on June 15, 1981, in Berlin.
Poore has been on the staff of the U.S. Command in
Berlin since Nov. 1980.

Harry E. Brooxsy has joined Champlin Petroleum

  

R. T. Mitchell Jr., °65

  

 

 

J. A. Stewart, "67

Co. at its Fort Worth headquarters as general manager
of exploration. Champlin is the oil and gas subsidiary
of Union Pacific Corp.

HARRY G. GOODHEART III has joined his law practice
with the partnership of Wood, Whitesell, Karp,
Wellbaum, Miller and Seitl which has offices in
Bradenton, Sarasota, and Englewood, Fla.

WILLIAM H. CANDLER (See 1963.)

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. WILDRICK, ason,
Austin Staniar, on Jan. 12, 1982, in San Diego.

GARRY APGAR has completed his first year of graduate
school at Yale University. He intends to pursue a
doctorate in French 18th century art.

S. BRYAN BENEDICT has joined the Atlanta insurance
agency of Hamilton-Dorsey-Alston Co.

ROBERT A. READING II is assistant dean of students at
Kenyon College. He lives with his 8-year-old son,
Timothy, in Gambier, Ohio.

Marc A. REuR is a professor of speech and theatre
arts at Shippensburg State College in Shippensburg,
Pa. He and his wife, Paula, recently appeared on the
ABC-TV quiz program Dream House and were
winners of a house and several other items. The Rehrs
have a 9-year-old daughter.

JOHN A. STEWART has been appointed chairman of
the College Regional Advisory Council for the Great-
er New Haven State Technical College in North
Haven, Conn. Stewart, former executive director of
Printing Industry of Connecticut, is a practicing
attorney and president of Management Representa-
tion, a management consulting firm located in Mil-
ford. Formerly with the Northern Textile Association
in Boston, Stewart brings to his advisory committee
chairmanship extensive experience with the business
community. He served as legal assistance attorney
for the U.S. Army in Berlin, Germany, and was
associated with the U.S. Peace Corps as legal assistant
to the Liberian Public Utility Authority in Monrovia,
Liberia.

EDWARD A. SUPPLEE JR. is chief financial officer and
controller of Consolidated Fibers Inc., in San Fran-
CISCO.

J. HOLMES Morrison (See 1963.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. HowarpbD CapPITO, a
daughter, Katharine Duling, on Feb. 23, 1982, in
Greeneville, Tenn.

In July 1981, EDMUND H. ARMENTROUT formed a
new planning and management consulting firm of
Armentrout and Associates in Atlanta. His book on
the new federalism written for Project SHARE was
published in April 1982.

J.B. Ghasdhan. °70

D.C. Miller, ’68

JAMES W. BakRIA is regional sales manager for the
Kipp Products Division of Madison-Kipp Corp. He
lives in Stone Mountain, Ga., with his wife, Florence,
and two children.

D. CHRISTOPHER MILLER, vice president and manager
of the Danville office of Virginia National Bank, has
been promoted to the position of senior vice president
and area executive officer. Before going to Danville
in September 1980 Miller had served as vice president
of Virginia National’s Roanoke office. He is a 1980
graduate of Stonier Graduate School of Banking at
Rutgers University. He and his wife, the former
Katherine Lordley, have two children.

Dr. WILLIAM M. S. RASMUSSEN was on leave of
absence from the Virginia Museum to teach art history
and serve as director of the duPont Gallery at Wash-
ington and Lee for the 1981-82 academic year.

WILLIAM M. SCHILDT (See 1964.)

1969

BIRTH: Dr. LEONARD A. BLANCHARD and Marsha
L. Hunter, a son, Henry Wyche Hunter-Blanchard,
on Feb. 5, 1982, in Dallas. Blanchard is in the cor-
porate training department of The Southland Corp.
He designs, writes and coordinates the development
of technical training programs for mid- and upper-
level management personnel of 7-Eleven. His wife is
an attorney.

BIRTH: PROFESSOR and Mrs. DAN T. DUNN Jr., a
daughter, Sarah McKenzie, on Dec. 14, 1981, in
Duxbury, Mass. She has an older brother, Daniel
Walker.

R. MALCOLM BUXTON is with Continental Grain Co.
and is now working in Sao Paulo, Brazil.

RICHARD E. (ARI) KRAMER is director of a new play
Comes the Happy Hour, which opened at the Three
Muses Theatre on Broadway and 73rd Street on May
12 and ran through May 23. Kramer has acted exten-
sively in New York and has directed such shows as
The Importance of Being Earnest, Lady Windermere’ s
Fan, You Can’t Take it With You, and California
Suite.

DaviD G. MONGAN, vice president of Kidde Con-
sultants in Baltimore, recently was named ‘‘ Young
Engineer of the Year’’ by the Maryland Society of
Professional Engineers. He holds an M.S. in civil
engineering from the University of Maryland and an
M.B.A. from Loyola. Mongan lives in Reisterstown
with his wife, Janet, and daughter, Alicia.

JEFFREY WEXLER editor and publisher of Shenandoah
Valley Magazine, a three-year-old regional magazine
published in Mint Springs, Va., near Staunton, was
featured in the April issue of Advertising Age. Both
Wexler and his magazine were featured. He is a
veteran of a newspaper publishing venture on Long
Island and a former member of a New York congress-
man’s staff. Shenandoah Valley Magazine thrives on

 

stories about local personalities. Advertising Age
states “the magazine has chronicled everything from
the building of the Blue Ridge Parkway to the last
days in the life of General Stonewall Jackson.’’ Wex-
ler is a frequent visitor to the Washington and Lee
campus.

Harry J. ZELIFF has been appointed a commissioner
of the Michigan Supreme Court. He lives in Lansing.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DavipD R. FRANKSTONE, a
son, Lee Gravely, on Oct. 5, 1981, in Chapel Hill,
N.C. Frankstone is a partner in the Chapel Hill law
firm of Manning, Osborn and Frankstone.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD A. GLEASON, a
daughter, Janine, on Jan. 16, 1982, in New York.

T. KENNETH CRIBB JR. has been appointed an assist-
ant counselor to President Ronald Reagan. Cribb
holds the rank of Deputy Assistant to the President
and works directly with Edwin Meese III.

JEFFREY B. GROSSMAN has been appointed national
budget and pricing manager for Calvert Distillers Co.
in New York. He and his wife, Julia, live in Stamford,
Conn.

Dr. CHRISTOPHER R. MARTIN has relocated his family
medicine practice to Bradenton, Fla.

STUART L. PORTER, program director of animal tech-
nology at Blue Ridge Community College at Weyers
Cave, Va., has been elected president of the Blue
Ridge Veterinary Medical Association. He has also
been appointed a visiting assistant professor of com-
parative medicine at the University of Virginia Medi-
cal School.

 

 

 

 

 

 

1971
MARRIAGE: NELSON F. BRINCKERHOFF and Judith
Hoffmeister. After graduation from law school in
June 1982 Brinckerhoff plans to practice in Rhode
Island.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. CARLETON BILLUPS JR., a
daughter, Jacqueline Cameron, on Nov. 21, 1981.
The family lives in Jackson, Miss.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. McCaRDELL JR., a
son, John Malcolm III, on April 6, 1982. McCardell
was recently promoted to associate professor of history
at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vt.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. PeyTOoN E. RICE, a daughter,
Meghan Miller, on Feb. 10, 1982. Rice is engaged in
the private practice of urology in North Little Rock,
Ark.

In July 1980, Dr. JOSEPH B. PHILIPs III became an
assistant professor of pediatrics, obstetrics, and
gynecology at the University of Alabama in Birming-
ham. He divides his time between clinical neonatol-
ogy, teaching, and research.

HO.tis C. TAGGART is director of an art gallery in
Los Angeles. The Taggart and Jorgensen Gallery
specializes in 19th- and early 20th-century American
paintings with an emphasis on American impression-
ists.

JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS JR., who has been in the crimi-
nal division of the Justice Department for the last
two-and a-half years and has been deputy chief of the
fraud section for the past year, has rejoined the law
firm of Sidley & Austin in Washington, D.C. He was
formerly with the firm from 1975 to 1979 before
joining the Justice Department.

CALVERT S. WHITEHURST is a lobbyist in Washington
for the Avco Corp. He lives in Arlington.

1972

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM K. MILLKEy and Jean Ann
Johnson on Nov. 14, 1981. They live in Atlanta
where Millkey is an architect.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. W. WADE PEERY, a daughter,
Sarah Batchelder, on March 5, 1982, in Columbus,
Ga. Peery is on the general surgery staff of the Martin
Army Community Hospital at Ft. Benning, Ga.

LELAND C. CLEMONS has joined the First National
Bank of Fort Worth, Texas, as manager of the Energy
Banking Division. Previously he had been vice presi-
dent and area head in the Southwest Energy Group at
First National Bank in Dallas. Clemons served as a
member of the Mid-Continent Petroleum Association
and the Independent Petroleum Association for the
Mountain States.

BruCE W. CUSSON is in the trust department of
Union Trust Co. in New Haven, Conn.

37

Class Notes

ROBERT L. GOEHRING JR. is education and training
services consultant for Kimberly-Clark Corp. in Nee-
nah, Wis.

ROBERT J. HUMPHREYS is deputy commonwealth’s
attorney for Virginia Beach. He had been assistant
commonwealth’s attorney for Norfolk.

GILBERT S. MEEM Jr. has been promoted to vice
president and coordinator of Investment Advisory
Services with Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., in its
Washington, D.C. office. After beginning his finan-
cial career with the commercial banking division of
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. of Winston-Salem,
N.C., Meem entered the securities business with
Reynolds Securities, Inc., which is now Dean Witter
Reynolds. He is recognized for his expertise in
coordinating services of independent discretionary
money managers and pension benefit consultants for
corporate clients. He and his wife, Knight, have one
son.

Dr. FREDERICK H. SANDs lives on Maui, Hawaii,
where he practices internal medicine.

R. CHARLES SHUFELDT is with Brown Brother Harri-
man in New York City. He earned his M.A. degree in
international relations from Johns Hopkins in 1976.
He lives in Brooklyn Heights with his wife, Margaret,
and 3-year-old son, Charlie.

PETER M. SOMERVILLE has been promoted to lieuten-
ant commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. He is an
attorney in Rock Port, Md.

E. GEORGE STOOK has moved to Baltimore as plant
manager of Flynn and Emrich Co.’s Bayview Divi-
sion. The firm manufactures iron castings.

1973
MARRIAGE: Dr. JOHN C. FULLERTON III and Beth
Ann Fonda on June 20, 1981, in Lake Jackson, Texas.
Fullerton is chief resident in general surgery at the
William Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso
and his wife is an intern at another hospital in that
city.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. STEPHEN K. DeEay, a daugh-
ter, Kendall Elizabeth, on Dec. 28, 1981. Deay is tax
counsel for International Bank, a multi-national di-
versified holding company in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THORNTON HarobiE III, a
second daughter, Amy Winborne, on Feb. 15, 1982.
Hardie is now a partner in the Dallas law firm of
Thompson & Knight.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davin A. KANTOR, a daugh-
ter, Nicole Saba, on Feb. 16, 1982, in Maineville,
Ohio. Kantor is president of Brothers Trading Co., a
wholesale food distributorship.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES F. SPAULDING, a Second
daughter, Sarah Barnes, on Oct. 23, 1981, in Chase
City, Va.

38

RICHARD V. ANDERSON was promoted to major in the
Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the U.S. Army
Reserve in August 1981. He is a ready reserve mem-
ber with the 135th JAG DET in Sharonville, Ohio.
Anderson is an attorney for the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency in Cincinnati.

Norwoop E. PAUKERT JR., under the stage name
Paul Norwood, had a leading role in the play Bent at
the Source Theater in Washington during January and
February. The play deals with the horrors of a Nazi
concentration camp and has gained considerable at-
tention. This production, directed by fellow alumnus
John E. Jacobsen, ’79, was reviewed in the Washing-
ton Post.

MICHAEL C. SCHAEFFER, in his second year as soccer
coach at Pembroke State University in Pembroke,
N.C., led his team to its best record in 10 years.

LEE S. THALHEIMER has recently received an ap-
pointment by the governor as Securities Commis-
sioner for the state of Arkansas. His office is in the
Capital Mall in Little Rock.

1974
BIRTH: Rev. and Mrs. JAcK E. ALTMAN III, a son,
John Heyward, on Nov. 6, 1981. Altman is assistant
to the rector at the Church of the Incarnation in
Dallas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KEVIN J. COPPERSMITH, a
son, Kevin Joseph II, on Jan. 22, 1982, in Oakland,
Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MARVIN P. DANIEL, a son,
Alexander Fleet, in May 1981, in Richmond. Daniel
is vice president and treasurer of Richmond Lumber
Co. Inc., manufacturers of kitchen and bath cabinets
and counter tops and producers of southern yellow
pine lumber products.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. PRENTICE EAGER III, a
son, William Prentice, on Dec. 8, 1981, in Atlanta.
Eager is a partner in the law firm of Moffett and
Henderson.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davip L. Moore JRr., a son,
William Emory, on May 12, 1981, in Baltimore.
Moore is a vice president with the Monetary Group in
Washington.

ScCoTT S. AINSLIE is working in Cotton Patch Gospel
at the old Lamb’s Theatre off Broadway. An ABC
documentary on the show aired on Feb. 28, 1982.

JOHN R. BROADWayY Jr. has joined the Virginia
Chamber of Commerce as director of public affairs
and research. He had been counsel to the Virginia
Code Commission and the Senate Committee on
General Laws of the Virginia General Assembly.

JAMES C. FERGUSON left the Army in September and
is now an administrator for the Oklahoma Tax Com-
mission in Oklahoma City.

JAMES M. Costan has been elected a member of the
Washington law firm of Pierson Semmes Crolius and
Finley.

WILLIAM B. HILt is assistant attorney general for the
state of Georgia with offices in Atlanta. Effective
December 1981, Hill was appointed assistant division
head for the criminal division of the State Law De-
partment.

J. TIMOTHY THOMPSON, who has been with E. F.
Hutton Co. in Washington, D.C., for the past two
years, was appointed regional annuity director in
September 1981 and elected assistant vice president
in January 1982.

ALFRED C. THULLBERY JR. is assistant state attorney
for Florida’s 10th Judicial Circuit. He lives in Lake
Wales.

HANNES F. VAN WAGENBERG is with the international
division of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. He and
his wife, Susan, live in New York.

STEPHEN C. WoopRUFF is purchasing manager of
the Hyatt Regency Saipan in the commonwealth of
the Northern Marianas. He is also chairman of the
staff housing steering committee with other various
ad hoc committee responsibilities.

1975
MARRIAGE: WILLIAM D. GENGE and Margaret Mary
McDonnell on Feb. 20, 1982, inRye, N.Y. They live
in New York where Genge is an account executive
with Doremus and Co., advertising and public rela-
tions firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD M. HaTHway, a
daughter, Christine Frances, on Feb. 26, 1982, in
New Carrollton, Md. Hathway is an audit manager
for Deloitte Haskins and Sells, certified public ac-
countants in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. TERRENCE G. JACKSON, a
daughter, Rory Kathleen, on Dec. 26, 1981, in
Springfield, Va. She has two older brothers, Colin
and Brendan.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. PARRILLO, a
son, Jordan Eric, on Nov. 20, 1981, in Bloomfield,
N.J. Parrillo is special assistant to the attorney gen-
eral for the state of New Jersey.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. BOWMAN WILLIAMS, ason,
James Alan, on Nov. 4, 1981. Bowman is employed
by the Ben C. Williams Bakery Services Inc. of
Dallas, Texas.

ROBERT H. CRAWFORD expects to earn his M.B.A.
from the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at Southern
Methodist University in August 1982.

ROBERT C. FLOYD has transferred to Atlanta with
Burroughs Corp., for whom he has worked for more
than six years as a systems specialist. He lives in
Clarkston, Ga.

   

W. W. Terry III, ’75

Dr. JOHN E. KEITH JR. is a resident in orthopedic
surgery at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

Gary R. KNICK has been promoted to a manager in
the Martinsburg, W.Va., accounting firm of Cox,
Allemong and Co.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK recently had a work of fiction,
‘*Octavius - the Sausage Machine’’ published in Metro
Magazine. He is an assistant commonwealth’s attor-
ney for the city of Virginia Beach with Bill Thomas,
°76, and Bob Humphreys, 72.

WILLIAM W. Terry III was made a member of the
law firm of Wetherington, Flippin, Melchionna and
Burton in Roanoke. He joined the firm in 1978 after
earning his degree at the T. C. Williams School of
Law of the University of Richmond.

1976

MARRIAGE: Davip R. BRAUN and Anne E. Smith
on Nov. 14, 1981, in Milwaukee, Wis. Bruce B.
Dunnan, ’76, was a member of the wedding party.
Braun is currently associate manager of the financial
services division of the Travelers Insurance Co. in
Milwaukee.

MARRIAGE: B.. CRAIG OWENS and Elizabeth Pee on
Sept. 5, 1981, in Atlanta. Owens is manager of
financial services for the bottling operations of the
Coca-Cola Co. in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. GRay JR., a son,
John Lawrence III, on Feb. 2, 1982, in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GROVER C. MCGEHEE III, a
daughter, Lauren Ashley, on Aug. 18, 1980, in
Lynchburg, Va. McGehee is data processing manager
for American Federal Savings and Loan.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY M. MONTAGUE, a
son, John Marshall, on May 25, 1981, in Charlottes-
ville.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH WALKER II, a son,
Joseph III, on Jan. 17, 1982, in Columbia, S.C.

ROBERT L. AMSLER is pursuing a degree in manage-
ment at the American Graduate School of Interna-
tional Management in Glendale, Ariz.

Dr. BEN R. BARTON is in his second year of surgical
residency at the Medical College of Virginia Hospital.
He has been awarded a two-year position beginning
in July 1982 at the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute in Bethesda, Md., where he will serve as a
clinical associate in cardiovascular surgery.

PETER R. CAVALIER has been promoted to senior
account officer in the New Jersey regional lending
office of Citicorp USA Inc. He earned his M.B.A. at
Fairleigh Dickinson University. Cavalier lives in
North Arlington, N.J.

MARK W. CLayTor has been appointed an assistant
public defender in Roanoke.

DEBORAH SUSMAN Down is doing research and writ-
ing benchbooks on trial procedure for judges for the
administrator for the courts office in Seattle.

In October 1981, ALAN P. DOZIER was named man-
ager of market research and planning for The Cooper
Group in Raleigh, N.C.

Dr. M. BARRINGER ELLIS is a first-year resident in
ear, nose and throat surgery at Madigan Army Medi-
cal Center in Tacoma, Wash. Cary Chisholm, ’76, is
also a resident there. Ellis and his wife live in Ft.
Lewis, Wash.

Since April 1981, H. MYNDERS GLOVER has been a
franchisee for VR Business Brokers of Boston, the
nation’s largest business brokerage firm with 230
offices across the country. He now runs his second
franchise in Richmond as president of Glover Invest-
ment Group Inc. The firm finds qualified buyers for
small businesses.

CaPT. PHILip L. HANRAHAN is commander of a tank
battalion in the Army rapid deployment force at Fort
Knox, Ky.

DANIEL A. JAMES graduated in May 1981 from LSU
Law School. He is a judicial clerk on the 2nd Circuit
Court of Appeals in Shreveport, La.

NEIL JOHNSON had a show of his photographs on
exhibit at the Savannah (Ga.) College of Arts &
Design in February 1982.

Davip S. MARTIN is European purchasing agent for
German Auto Parts Inc. of Atlanta.

W. HOWELL Morrison is an assistant U.S. Attorney
in Charleston, S.C.

JAMES D. PEARSON has been elected a second vice
president in the U.S. Banking department of Con-
tinental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of
Chicago. He joined Continental in 1978 after earning
his master’s degree from Indiana University.

A. DICKINSON B. PHILLIPS is an investment broker
for A. G. Edwards and Sons in Norfolk. He also
serves as alumni admissions coordinator for the Tide-
water Chapter of W&L alumni. Phillips and his wife,
Laura, have a son Walker, 2, and daughter, Bailey,
1.

WILLIAM W. PIFER is district administrative assistant
to Rep. J. Kenneth Robinson of the 7th district in
Virginia.

WALTER S. ROBERTSON II is on the board of directors
of the Independent Insurance Agents of Richmond
and has been appointed to the legislative and young
agents committees of the Independent Insurance
Agents of Virginia. He is associated with the Rich-
mond agency of DeJarnette and Paul Inc.

Dr. RICHARD O. WHITAKER joined Em Tran Inc., a
commercial cattle embryo transfer company in Eliza-
bethtown, Pa., as staff veterinarian in charge of the

resident beef cattle herd. His other duties include
embryo recovery and implantation throughout New
England and embryo export to Hungary, France,
Spain, and Argentina.

WILLIE B. WINGFIELD is a planning analyst for
Champlin Petroleum, a subsidiary of Union Pacific
Corp., in Denver. He earned an M.B.A. in finance
from Texas Christian University.

1977
MARRIAGE: Epwarop E. FISCHER JR. and Wendy
Jones in May 1981. Fischer joined the legal staff of
United States Life as director of the firm’s New York
headquarters. They live in Tuckahoe, N.Y.

MARRIAGE: Dr. EDWARD B. GERHARDT and Mau-
reen Breen on March 13, 1982, in Manhasset, N.Y.
Members of the wedding party included Paul W.
Gerhardt, ’79, and Dr. A. Gayden Robert, ’77. The
couple lives in Nashville where Gerhardt is a resident
at Vanderbilt University Hospital.

MARRIAGE: Jon R. GriGG and Susan Aldish in May
1981 in Muncy, Pa. Grigg graduated from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Medicine in May 1981
and is now a lieutenant in the Navy Medical Corps.
He is a psychiatric intern at the Portsmouth Naval
Hospital and has been selected for a three-year resi-
dency which began in July 1982. They live in Nor-
folk.

MARRIAGE: Robert D. RATHBUN and Deborah Ann
Walsh on Oct. 25, 1981, in Sharon, Conn. Rathbun is
managing editor of two monthly trade magazines,
Video User and Shooting Commercials, published by
Knowledge Industry Publications, Inc., in White
Plains, N.Y. They live in Pelham.

MARRIAGE: STUART W. SERENBETZ and Jean Butler
on Sept. 12, 1981, in Hudson, Ohio. Robert Jones,
"77, was in the wedding. They live in Rye, N.Y., and
Serenbetz works for Turner Construction Co. in New
York.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. BALDWIN III, a
daughter, Heather Conant, on Feb. 10, 1982, in
Richmond. Baldwin has joined the law firm of
Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox and Allen.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs H. FISHER, a daughter,
Evelyn Wells, on Feb. 21, 1982, in Chapel Hill,
N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs A, JoNEs IV, a son,
James Addison V, on Dec. 31, 1981, in Lexington.

Gary W. ADans is a political consultant with As-
sociated Professional Services, a communications
management and consulting firm. He formerly held
the position of a legislative analyst to the West
Virginia Legislature. He lives in South Charleston,
W.Va.

DANIEL W. ASTON is building and operating a real
estate brokerage company in Dallas. His firm has five

39

   

 

J. G. Houston, ’

salesmen and two staff members. Its specialty is
representation of developers.

WILLIAM E. CRAVER III earned his law degree from
the University of South Carolina in May 1980 and an
M.B.A. there in December 1980. He is an associate
with the Columbia law firm of McNair, Glenn, Kon-
duros, Corley, Singletary, Porter and Dibble.

BRADLEY S. ELLIOTT’s first book, Surf s up!, a refer-
ence work on The Beach Boys, an American rock
group, was published in December 1981 and has
received favorable reviews. He is now at work on a
book about Bruce Springsteen. Currently a resident
of Houston, Elliott is a consultant for McGraw-Hill
Book Co., training instructors for its number skills
improvement seminars.

In May 1981 JoeL C. EvERETT earned his M.D.
degree from the Medical College of Virginia. He is
now a first-year resident in pediatrics at MCV in
Richmond.

CaPT. RICHARD P. FINK is a battalion motor officer
and expects to take command of a tank company at
Fort Knox in October 1982. He is a graduate of the
armor officer advanced course and plans to complete
his M.S. degree in systems integration.

JAMES G. HOUSTON has been promoted to assistant
vice president in the corporate banking division of
Flagship National Bank in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Dr. E. CLAIBORNE IRBY JR. will begin an orthopedic
residency in Charlotte, N.C., in July 1982.

BRIAN F. LAMB is a taxation specialist in the pension
fund division of Shadur, LaVine and Associates,
investment firm in Van Nuys, Calif., a division of
Integrated Resources of New York. He lives in En-
cino.

ROBERT K. LYForD is an insurance agent for the
American Mutual Companies in Atlanta.

MAYNARD D. McCork Le works in the retail man-
agement training program of Eddie Bauer Inc. He
started with Bauer in Boston and is now in King of
Prussia, Pa. McCorkle started with L. L. Bean, Inc.,
after graduation and then worked for W. H. Brine,
Inc., lacrosse equipment manufacturers, before join-
ing Bauer two years ago. He lives in Collegeville, Pa.

JOHN A. MAGEE V is a first-year student at the
Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business at the
University of Virginia.

MICHAEL M. MONAHAN expects to earn his degree
from the John Marshall Law School in June 1982. He
and his wife, Susan, a private art dealer, live in
Chicago.

KENNETH S. VOELKER is now in Marietta, Ga., and
with Arthur Andersen & Co. as a senior staff con-
sultant in their management information consulting
division.

40

   

Maryellen Goodlatte, ’78

WILLIAM B. HILL (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: FRANK E. FRIEDMAN and Julie H. Hall
on August 22, 1981, in Mobile, Ala. Friedman
graduated from the University of Florida Dental
School in March 1982 and is now in private practice
in Mobile.

MICHAEL K. CAMERON received his degree from
Wake Forest Law School in May 1981 and passed the
North Carolina Bar. He is currently a captain in the
U.S. Army JAG Corps at Fort Dix, N.J.

MARYELLEN F. GOODLATTE has been made a mem-
ber of the Roanoke law firm of Wetherington, Flippin,
Melchionna and Burton. She has been with the firm
since 1978 and is also active in the Roanoke Republi-
can Party.

K. LEE Howarbp has been named director of ad-
missions at Florida Central Academy, a private
boarding school in Mt. Plymouth, Fla.

Kurt C. Russ is pursuing graduate work in anthro-
pology at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
He was recently awarded a Hilton A. Smith Graduate
Fellowship, one of the most prestigious awards offered
at the University of Tennessee. The following is
awarded on the basis of high academic achievement,
broad intellectual ability and potential for significant
career contributions. Russ is also working in research
funded by the Leyburn Scholars program at Wash-
ington and Lee, a program that allows former W&L
students to continue research after graduation. Russ’
research involves the analysis of 18th and 19th century
buttons excavated from historic sites in Rockbridge
County.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK (See 1975.)

1979

MARRIAGE: STANLEY G. BRADING JR. and Nancy
R. Clark on July 4, 1981, in Norfolk. Channing
Martin, ’75, ’79L was best man. The groomsmen
were Mike McLaughlin, ’79L; Jay DuRivage, ’76,
*79L; and Paul Dominick, ’79L. W&L guests includ-
ed Mike Thornton, ’70, ’78L; Beau Dudley, ’74,
"79L; Matt Calvert, ’75, ’79L; Stu Nibley, ’75, ’79L;
Kevin Cosgrove, ’79L; Herb Donica, ’79L; Chris
Wolfe, ’79L; Richard Greenberg, ’79L; Greg Borri,
*79L; Joannie Gardner, ’80L; Jean Baxter, ’80L;
Betsy Callicott, ’80L; and Bill Goodell, ’80L. The
couple is living in Atlanta where Brading is an associ-
ate with the law firm of O’Callaghan, Saunders and
Stamm.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD L. GREENBERG and Catherine
Roberts Cash on March 20, 1982, in Roanoke, Va.
Among the guests were classmates Channing Martin,
Whitt Bromm, Paul Dominick, and Stan Brading.
Also attending were Jean Baxter, ’80L, and Joan
Gardner, ’80L. The couple will live in Roanoke where
Greenberg is a partner in the firm of Thomas and
Greenberg.

MARRIAGE: WarrEN A. STEPHENS and Harriet W.
Calhoun on Nov. 28, 1981, in Kinston, N.C. David
McCubbin, ’80, Thomas Pritchard, ’79, and Keith
Calhoun, ’79, were groomsmen. They live in Little
Rock where Stephens is employed by Stephens Inc.,
investment bankers.

Ist Lt. MARSHALL M. BARROLL completed officer
training school in July 1980 and navigator training at
Mather Air Force Base in California in July 1981
where he earned his wings. He recently reported
aboard a KC-135 at Warner-Robbins Air Force Base,
Ga.

R. CHRISTOPHER COLLINS is a corporate lending
trainee with Southeast Bank in Miami. He received
his M.B.A. from William and Mary in May 1981.

JOHN A. CRaIG has moved to Norfolk as sales man-
ager for an international freight forwarder.

MICHAEL J. Doopy joined the eastern division of
Martin Marietta Cement as a territory manager. He
lives in McLean, Va.

Harry E. HALL is a second-year student at Mercer
University’s Walter F. George School of Law.

HENRY Y. HAMILTON is manager of the Oak Grove
branch of Bankers Trust of South Carolina in Lexing-
ton, S.C.

JOHN E. JACOBSEN directed the Source Theater pro-
duction of Bent in Washington during January and
February 1982. The widely acclaimed play was about
the horrors of a Nazi concentration camp.

KENDALL C. JONES is an assistant cashier with First
and Merchants National Bank in Newport News, Va.

M. TUCKER LaAFFITTE III is in his third year at the
Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston.

JOHN R. LEwis Jr. has opened a law office in Buena
Vista, Va.

Davib C. Pace has left Wheat, First Securities to
enter the T. C. Williams School of Law at the Uni-
versity of Richmond.

KENNETH W. SLEDD Jr. is an account manager for
Graphic Management Consultants, the business forms
management division of Amold Graphic Industries
Inc. in Richmond. He is enrolled also in the M.B.A.
program at Virginia Commonwealth University.

JAMES S. TAGGART is an assistant buyer with Neiman-
Marcus Co. in Dallas. He completed the firm’s
executive training program in May 1981.

TRACY A. WHITE will graduate in June 1982 from the
Walter E. George School of Law and will become an
associate with the Atlanta law firm of Johnson and
Montgomery.

  

= ee,

J.C: Hamilton. ’80

 

1980

MARRIAGE: Lt. RICHARD J. ALLEN Jr. and Lt.
Cynthia Anne Ross on Dec. 19, 1981, in Richmond.
They are stationed at Ft. Ord, Calif., where Allen is
with the 7th Infantry Division and his wife is a medical
service corps officer.

MARRIAGE: Classmates LESLEY I. BROWN and ERIC
H. SCHLEss on Jan. 2, 1982, in Middlebury, Vt.
Ushers were Jeff Lathe, ’80L, and Mark Russell,
"80L, while classmates John Innelli, Neil Rowe, and
Jim Olson, ’79L attended. They live in Philadelphia
where she is an associate with Duane, Morris and
Hecksher. He practices with Ballard, Spahr, Andrews
and Ingersoll.

MARRIAGE: ANDREW L. CROWSON and Lori Ann
Stafford on July 12, 1980, in Ada, Okla. Crowson
received his M.B.A. from Tulane in May 1982. In
June, Crowson began working as a financial analyst
for the natural gas products division of Conoco Inc. in
Houston. He had been a commercial specialist at the
International Trade Mart in New Orleans.

MARRIAGE: W. KEITH SANForD and Julia Bryan
Grosvenor on Aug. 22, 1981, in Memphis. Among
the wedding party were classmates Ralph Ownby III,
George Vermilya Jr., Bruce Wilmot, Andy Lassiter,
and Art Bloom; and the bride’s father, C. N. Gros-
venor III, 49. The couple lives in Chattanooga where
Sanford is with First Tennessee Bank.

MARRIAGE: Eric P. SELLA and Melissa Winder on
June 27, 1981, in Shreveport, La. Classmates attend-
ing were Lawrence Gumprich, Marsh Dougherty,
Don Swaggart, Phil Madeloff, David Blackwood,
Guy Steuart; and Galen Trussell, ’78, and Bob Bates,
"78. The couple live in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JosEPpH E. OLIVE, a son,
Joseph Rogers, on Feb. 6, 1982, in Wantagh, N.Y.
Olive is an accountant for Coopers and Lybrand in
New York.

Ist Lt. STEWART ATKINSON JR. is a platoon leader
for an Army assault craft unit at Fort Eustis, Va.

Mark T. BROUGHTON has been promoted to regional
sales manager for Satellite Computing Inc.
(SATCOM), a multi-national firm providing applica-
tion software solutions for Hewlett-Packard Com-
puters. He plans to work part time on his M.B.A. at
William and Mary. Broughton lives in Virginia
Beach.

MICHAEL F. DEIGHAM is studying for a master’s
degree in German at the University of Virginia.

Ist LT. MARK E. GINEVAN is stationed in Pisa, Italy,
with the U.S. Army Signal Corps.

JOHN C. HAMILTON has been named assistant man-
ager for the Camden branch of the First National
Bank of South Carolina.

CHARLES W. HUNDLEY is a hearing examiner for the
Virginia State Corporation Commission.

S. DEWEY KEESLER studied in Freiburg, West Ger-
many, as a Fulbright Scholar in 1980-81. He started
work in August 1981 as a securities analyst for the
international division of the Putnam Management
Co. in Boston.

Jay C. Korn, formerly employed by the Lexington,
Va., radio station WREL, has purchased ownership
of the Campus Corner, a record and stereo equipment
store. He and his partner, Douglas Higgins, have
moved the store to a new location on Nelson Street.
The store plans to offer a wide variety of classical,
jazz, and specialty music and will extend the selection
of sheet music for instrument and voice. Stereo com-
ponents and a repair service will be offered.

Davip J. McCussin, president of McCubbin Hosiery
Inc., in Oklahoma City is helping expand the family
firm from a regional to a national and possibly inter-
national manufacturer and marketer of socks and
hosiery for men, women and children. The firm is
expanding its market area by the introduction of ex-
clusive designer lines.

KEVIN F. McGowan is employed in management for
Milliken & Co., a textile firm, at their plant in
Blacksburg, S.C. He lives in Gaffney, S.C.

VirGIL D. MITCHELL is a manufacturing engineer for
R. A. Gray Inc. in San Diego.

VAIL T. THORNE has been working for the past two
years as a Staff assistant for Sen. John Warner. He
plans to attend law school in the fall of 1982.

RICHARD S. WALLERSTEIN has just been named the
president of the student bar association at the T. C.
Williams School of Law in Richmond. Wallerstein is
credited with doing a great deal for the improvement
in the school’s honor system.

198]
MARRIAGE: CLAUDE B. CoLonna Jr. and Bonnie
Jo Gwin on April 11, 1981, in Lee Chapel. They live
in Williamsburg where Colonna is a first-year M.B.A.
student at William and Mary.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN B. STREET, ason, Scott
Benson, on Nov. 10, 1981. Street has been admitted
to the Ohio Bar and is associated with the Chillicothe
firm of Phillips and Street.

MARINE 2ND LT. CHARLES O. ADLER was graduated
recently from the Basic School at the Marine Corps
Development and Education Command at Quantico,
Va. The school is designed to prepare newly commis-
sioned officers for assignment to the Fleet Marine
Force and emphasizes the duties and responsibilities
of a rifle platoon commander. Adler joined the Ma-
rines in June 1981.

SUZANNE M. BarNETT will join the Seattle law firm
of Lane, Powell, Moss and Miller in September.

GERRY W. BaAROUSSE JR. is a senior credit analyst
with Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans and is in
their commercial lending training program.

CarRL M. BaTESs is a stockbroker in Harrisonburg,
Va.

MARSHALL A. CLARK is a broadcast consultant for
Data Communications Corp. in Memphis.

VINCENT COVIELLO is a second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army Signal Corps stationed in Giessen, West Ger-
many.

W. WARREN CROWDUS spent a year as a Fulbright
Scholar at the University of Hamburg. He will study
law at the University of Chicago beginning in Sep-
tember 1982.

CHRISTOPHER J. DANIEL is a law student at the Uni-
versity of Houston.

PETER D. ELIADES is a first-year law student at the
University of Richmond.

R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON has completed the general
management training program at Wachovia Bank in
Winston-Salem, N.C. He is now in the banks inter-
national department. Gammon is a class agent for his
class.

RANDOLPH B. (RANDY) GEORGE is working as a
group life counselor at the National Children’s Re-
habilitation Center in Leesburg, Va. The job involves
guiding emotionally disturbed children and adoles-
cents through the course of daily living as prescribed
by an activity program and the individual treatment
approach.

JEFFREY H. Gray has joined the Norfolk law firm of
Willcox, Savage, Dickson, Hollis and Eley. He was
admitted to the South Carolina Bar and had been
associated with a firm in Columbia.

KEVIN D. HUMPHRIES was named the outstanding
young rescue squad member by the Buena Vista,
Va., Jaycees. He is an accountant for R. L. Persinger
and Co. in Staunton.

Davip B. IRVIN is a first-year law student at the
University of Virginia.

MYLEs H. KELLEY is a petroleum landman for Steele
and Associates of Midland, Texas. He lives in Fort
Worth.

W. Cope Moyers works for The Corporation for
Entertainment and Learning, a television production
company in New York.

ROBERT B. NEELY is employed as a tax accountant
with Arthur Andersen & Co. in Dallas, Texas. He is
also a member of the Dallas Rugby Club.

MICHAEL J. PERRY is an admissions counselor at
Washingon and Lee.

41

In Memoriam

JosEPH ROBLES is currently with the U.S. Peace
Corps and is a volunteer teacher at the Kalulini
Secondary School in Kenya, East Africa.

MarkK W. CLaAyTorR (See 1976.)

JOHN R. Lewis Jr. (See 1979.)

 

In Memoriam

 

1910

JOSEPH RAMSEY BLACKBURN, former long-time resi-
dent of Charleston, W.Va., and an engineer with
both the West Virginia Department of Mines and
Department of Highways, died April 15, 1981, in
San Jose, Calif. While at W&L, Blackburn was an
outstanding member of the football team and the boat
crew. After his retirement in 1971 from the highway
department, he continued as an engineering con-
sultant. In 1980 Blackburn moved from Charleston to
California in order to be with his son and daughter-in-
law.

1911

FLETCHER BLAINE CLEMENT, an attorney in Bonham,
Texas, died March 2, 1982. At one time, Clement
lived in Nashville, Ark., where he was the city attor-
ney.

1913

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON Sr., U.S. Air Corps colonel
who accepted the Japanese surrender in Hong Kong
at the end of World War II, died Feb. 5, 1982, in
Monticello, Ark. Williamson began his military
career as a pilot in the Army Air Service during
World War I. He was a founding member in 1925 of
the 154th Observation Squadron, the original unit of
the Arkansas Air National Guard. In 1941, William-
son was ordered to Washington to serve with the air
plans division of the Army Air Corps. He was pro-
moted to colonel and appointed deputy assistant chief-
of-staff for plans on the Joint and Combined Chiefs-
of-Staff. He assumed active duty in New Delhi as air
plans chief for the China-Burma-India Theater. He
was promoted to an assistant chief-of-staff for the
combined Chinese-American air and ground forces
while in that assignment. Williamson had been retired
since 1973.

1914

Dr. DANIEL CRUMP BUCHANAN, 4a retired Presby-
terian minister and missionary to Japan, died Feb. 14,
1982. His last church was at the Presbyterian Church
in Takoma Park, Md. He was the author of several
works on evangelism in Japan. He was ordained a
minister in the Presbyterian Church in 1920.

ARTHUR WILLIAMSON MCcCaIn, retired president and
vice chairman of the board of Union Planters National
Bank, died Feb. 1, 1982, in Memphis, Tenn. McCain

42

moved to Memphis as president of Union Planters in
1952 after retiring as vice chairman of the board of
Chase National Bank, now Chase Manhattan National
Bank, the country’s third-largest financial institution.
He began his banking career in Jonesboro, Ark., and
in 1916 attended the Foreign Banking School operated
by the National City Bank of New York. Later McCain
served as international financier in Brazil, Argentina,
and Chile through the early 1920s. He was made vice
president of the National Park Bank of New York in
1928 and through a series of promotions rose to the
position as vice board chairman of Chase National
Bank. McCain retired from Union Planters in 1955
but remained active in civic and social organizations
including the Committee on Community Relations,
the American Red Cross, the Memphis Opera Guild,
the Civic Research Committee, and the Memphis
chapter of the English Speaking Union. At the time of
his death he was class agent for the W&L Annual
Fund for his class.

1916

GEORGE HENRY WILLIAMSON, one of the oldest prac-
ticing attorneys in Charleston, W.Va., and a specialist
in real estate law, died Oct. 6, 1981. He was an
outstanding member of various Masonic bodies for
over 50 years. He was initiated in October 1919 and
last served as Potentate of Beni Kedem Temple. In
addition to his law practice, Williamson owned and
operated since 1932 the Grandview Memorial Park.

1918

WILLIAM H. JETER, a prominent Jacksonville, Fla.,
attorney for more than 55 years and former general
counsel for Gulf Life Insurance Co., died April 9,
1982. Jeter came to Jacksonville and began law prac-
tice in 1925. He was admitted to the Florida Bar and
became associated with the law firm of Daniel and
Boggs. He later became general counsel for Gulf
Life, which he represented until 1964. He continued
to practice law until his retirement last year. Jeter was
active in civic and social affairs. He was captain of
Ye Mystic Revellers in 1933 and became king of the
Revellers in 1935. He was a member of the Florida
Yacht Club, the Friars Club and was a founding
member of San Jose Country Club. Jeter was a long-
time board member of the Children’s Home Society
of Florida and was a president of the society in 1960.

1919

Harry RUSSELL ROBEY, business manager-treasurer
of Southern Seminary Junior College and civic leader
in Buena Vista and Rockbridge County, died Feb.
14, 1982, at the hospital in Lexington. Robey grew
up in Buena Vista and attended its public schools.
After serving in the United States Navy during World
War I, he returned to Buena Vista where he became
treasurer of Farmers and Merchants Mills until 1922,
when he married the former Margaret Durham and
bought an interest in Southern Seminary. Together
Mr. and Mrs. Robey saw the growth of Southern
Seminary from a student body of fewer than 100
women to an accredited college with enrollment in
excess of 300 students. Robey and his wife relin-

quished control of the school in 1958 when it became
a non-profit institution. He continued to be active in
the management of the college until he retired in
1972. He served as a trustee of Southern Seminary
until 1980 at which time he was elected trustee emeri-
tus. He was amember of the city council from 1934 to
1950 and served as first chairman of the city’s planning
commission. He was instrumental in establishing the
first city recreation department and the health and
welfare department. Robey contributed his time and
energy to many activities and was an active member
of virtually every civic organization in both Rock-
bridge County and Buena Vista. He and Mrs. Robey
were elected Buena Vista’s ‘‘Citizens of the Year’’ in
1969.

1920

HERMAN R. CRILE, a retired attorney, died March 3,
1982, in Phoenix, Ariz. Crile retired as a lieutenant
colonel after serving in the Army in both World
Wars. He was a member of the New Mexico Bar
Association. Crile attended New Mexico Military
Institute, Washington and Lee University, and the
University of Chicago. He was a native of Newberry,
Ind., and moved to Arizona in 1945.

JOSEPH M. GLICKSTEIN SR., a prominent attorney
and native of Jacksonville, Fla., died Feb. 10, 1982.
He was admitted to the Bar in October 1920. He
practiced law in Jacksonville continuously until his
death. In the eulogy at his funeral he was referred to
as ‘‘a veritable patriarch of this community. . . . Joe
Glickstein Sr. never burned a bridge; he never aban-
doned any person or any cause. He never quit. And he
never ceased to care.’’ Glickstein was a member of
the Florida Bar, the Jacksonville Bar, and the Ameri-
can Bar Association; he was admitted to practice in
the U.S. Supreme Court in 1933. He was a former di-
rector and a senior advisor of the Barnett Bank of
Jacksonville, a trustee of the Wilson Family Founda-
tion Inc., the Sylvia K. and Edgar M. Kugelman
Foundation and the George T. Miller Foundation.
Glickstein was named a winner of the Washington
and Lee Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1979. He
was a former member of the Governor’s staff, a
former councilman and Mayor of the city of Neptune
Beach, and a member of the Duval County Civil
Service Commission. He was a World War I veteran.

192]

Dr. CHARLES GEORGE GORDON Moss, a former dean
and department head at Longwood College, died
April 3, 1982, in Richmond, Va. Moss had also
taught at an Episcopal High School in Alexandria and
at Wake Forest College. At Longwood College he
was chairman of the history department from 1948 to
1964 and academic dean of the college from 1963 to
1967.

1922

EDGAR JACKSON, who on Feb. 5 had received the
Order of the Purple Heart at the Veterans Hospital in
Norfolk, died Feb. 27, 1982. Jackson was a retired

chemistry teacher, writer and historian who had been
a corporal 63 years earlier and received wounds at the
Battle of Verdun in France in 1918. His autobio-
graphical account of the war Fall Out to the Right of
the Road was published in 1973 although he had been
working on it for years. When Jackson retired from
teaching, he returned to his hometown, Franklin,
Va., and bought a one-third interest in The Tidewater
. News, a weekly newspaper. He was news editor for
six years. He was admitted to Veterans Hospital in
January 1982.

ROBERT BLEAKLEY JAMES, a prominent Virginia at-
torney and native of Clifton Forge, Va., died March
11, 1982, in Clifton Forge. After receiving his law
degree from Washington and Lee in 1922, James
moved to Arlington, Va., to enter the private practice
of law. During his stay in Arlington he was assistant
commonwealth attorney and general counsel of the
Washington and Old Dominion Railroad Co. From
1933 to 1962, James pursued a government career
which included serving as administrative assistant to
Sen. Allan Ellender of Louisiana and as an attorney
with the Veterans Administration from 1945 until his
retirement in 1962 when he returned to Clifton Forge.
He was a veteran of World War I and had a life-time
membership in the American Legion and the Virginia
Bar.

1923

ROBERT HOWELL Carr, a prominent and long-time
businessman in Jasper, Ala., died Feb. 9, 1982. Carr
entered the lumber business in 1923 in Mississippi
and moved to Alabama in 1928. He was president of
R. H. Carr Lumber Co. until 1964. He then became
associated with the Walker-Fayette Coal Co. and
worked as a land agent. Carr was a former vice
president and director of Associated Industries of
Alabama. He served as class agent for the W&L
Alumni Fund for many years. He was also, at one
time, connected with the Housing Authority of Jasper.

GEORGE WHITE GOOD, owner and operator of Good
and Co., an insurance and real estate firm in Win-
chester, Va., died in March 1982. Between 1931 and
1942, Good was associated with E. I. duPont Ne-
mours Co., cellophane division in New York. He
moved to Wilmington, Del., with the firm in 1937
but returned to Winchester, Va., in 1946 when he
started his real estate and insurance agency.

SAMUEL ALEXANDER HUNDLEY, a former vice presi-
dent of Interchemical Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio, a
manufacturer of inks, carbon paper and business sup-
plies, died in Sarasota, Fla., Oct. 1, 1981. Hundley
was associated with Interchemical from 1945 to 1966
when he retired to Florida. In Florida he was also
associated with the Willard Manufacturing Corp.

1924

Dr. STUART ALEXANDER MACCORKLE, a retired
University of Texas professor of government, died
April 8, 1982, in Austin, Texas. MacCorkle was born
in Lexington, Va., and interment was at the Oxford

Church in Collierstown, Va. He received a master’s
degree from the University of Virginia and a doctorate
from Johns Hopkins University. He was awarded an
honorary degree by Washington and Lee in 1969.
MacCorkle’s association with the University of Texas
began in 1930 when he became an instructor in the
department of government. He also taught at South-
western at Memphis for a year, returning to Texas in
1932. He advanced through the academic ranks to
become full professor in 1941. MacCorkle became
director of the University of Texas’ Bureau of
Municipal Research in 1937. This bureau was the
forerunner of the Institute of Public Affairs, which
MacCorkle also directed. The Institute of Public
Affairs later was merged into the Lyndon Baines
Johnson School of Government at the University of
Texas. MacCorkle served on the Austin City Council
from 1949 to 1953. He was the author of several
publications, including five books and numerous
pamphlets and articles. He held a seat on the Austin
Planning Commission and served as chairman of the
Austin Airport Zoning Board. During the 37 years he
was with the University of Texas, MacCorkle
occasionally accepted temporary assignments away
from the campus. On one such assignment he was
principal advisor in public administration at Seoul
(Korea) National University.

JOHN JAMES RICHTER, a prominent retail merchant in
Laredo, Texas, died in November 1981. Richter was
president of Richter’s Retail Stores. He was also a
past president of the Laredo Civic Music Association
and a past president of the Chamber of Commerce.

CHARLES ANDERSON TUTWILER, an attorney in
Welch, W.Va., and a long-time class agent for the
law class of 1924, died April 20, 1982, in Welch.
Tutwiler was a former president of the West Virginia
State Bar and also the West Virginia Bar Association.
He was a member of the Board of Law Examiners for
the State of West Virginia, a director of the McDowell
County National Bank, and the Southern Insurance
Agency. He was also a director of the Tug Fork Land
Co. He began practicing law in Welch in July 1924
and formed the firm of Crockett and Tutwiler.

1925

CLYDE NIxON ALLEN, past president of Model
Laundry, Inc., and Jefferson Linen Supply Co. of
Richmond, Va., died Feb. 28, 1982. Allen was active
in local business and civic groups throughout his
career, holding association offices in Richmond and
in Henrico County. He began working in the retail
automobile business but joined Jefferson Linen Supply
Co. in 1930. Allen was a member of Henrico’s Board

 

of Public Welfare, the national board of directors for
the Navy League of the United States and the board of
directors for the National Tobacco Festival.

1926

DOUGLAS DARNELL Jr., who was formerly with the
Firestone Stores, died Jan. 5, 1982, in Dallas, Texas.

1927

GEORGE CARLTON WALTERS, former West Hemp-
stead, N.Y., Republican leader and longtime civic
activist, died March 24, 1982. Walters, an attorney,
was a GOP leader from the mid-1940s to the mid-
1950s. He was also the local party’s legal counsel and
was organizer and first president of the West Hemp-
stead Chamber of Commerce. He served as a Nassau
GOP committeeman, chairman of the board of gov-
ermors and president of the West Hempstead GOP
Club, and director, secretary and president of the
West Hempstead Lions Club. In 1965, Walters retired
from his law practice and moved to Marathon Shores,
Fla. , where he served as president of the Florida Keys
Electric Cooperative Association. In 1977 he moved
to Lantana, Fla.

1928

WILLIAM CLARENCE NORMAN 8 ., chairman of the
board emeritus of First National Bank of Crossett,
Ark., and retired vice president of Georgia-Pacific
Corp., died April 21, 1982. Norman began his busi-
ness career with the Bank of Crossett, now First
National Bank. In 1938 he joined the Crossett Lumber
Co. as an assistant to the general manager and became
executive vice president of its successor firm, the
Crossett Co. Following the sale of that company to
Georgia-Pacific in 1962, he became a vice president
and general manager of the Crossett Division until his
retirement in 1969. Norman was the bank’s president
for 20 years and was chairman of the board until his
retirement as an active member in January 1982. He
was the former chairman of the board of Ashley Drew
and Northern Railway and president of the Royal Oak
Charcoal Co. and the Tri-state Mill Supply Co. A
member of the Crossett School Board for 31 years, he
was board chairman for 22 years. It was during his
tenure on the board that the school system went
through integration and he helped to persuade the city
to move gradually towards compliance. W&L
awarded Norman an honorary doctor of laws degree
in 1965. He was active in promoting the Boy Scouts
and was awarded the Silver Beaver Award. He was a
past director of the Arkansas Chamber of Commerce,
the Associated Industries of Arkansas and a former
trustee of the University of Central Arkansas at Con-
way. He was a charter member and past president of
the Crossett Rotary Club and was a trustee of the
Crossett Health Foundation.

1929

EDWARD LANDER SMITH, a representative of the State
Farm Insurance Co. in Charlottesville, Va., for more
than 40 years, died Feb. 2, 1982.

43

In Memoriam

STEWART MCARTHUR TAYLOR, who for the major
portion of his career was employed by the Alabama
State Docks in Mobile, Ala., died Oct. 11, 1981. He
had reached the position of dock superintendent. He
was an associate of the Mobile Steamship Associa-
tion, the Mobile Traffic and Transportation Club, and
the International Trade Club.

1930

ROBERT BURTON JUSTICE, a former director of in-
dustrial relations with American Enka Corp. in Enka,
N.C., died Jan. 6, 1982. At one time Justice had been
an attorney with the North Carolina Unemployment
Compensation Commission. He was also with the
U.S. Employment Service and was a member of the
War Manpower Commission.

1932

MATTHEW CROCKETT HUGHES JrR., former town at-
torney for Bluefield, Va., died March 5, 1982. He
had been a resident of Bluefield since 1922. As a
veteran of World War II, Hughes served as a judge
advocate of the submarine base in New England,
Conn. Hughes was active in civic, political and reli-
gious functions. He was a past president of the
Kiwanis Club, past exalted ruler of the Bluefield Elks
Lodge No. 269, a member of the Harman Lodge No.
222 AF and AM, having recently received his 50-
year membership pin and certificate. He had served
as commonwealth’s attorney in Tazewell and Bland
Counties and town attorney in Bluefield for more
than 35 years.

CECIL SHELBY JEFFCOAT, a retired buyer in the cotton
procurement department of the Opp & Micolas Cotton
Mills in Opp, Ala., died Jan. 17, 1982. Jeffcoat was a
past member of the city council, the city school
board, and a past member of the board of directors of
Micolas Cotton Mills and the Mizell Memorial Hos-
pital.

DAVID BRAINARD KIRBY, a retired member of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, died Nov.
28, 1981, in Harrisburg, Pa.

1934

WILLIAM P. MEDCALF, who was president of Travel
Rite Tours, died in Sebastian, Fla., Sept. 13, 1981.

1935

Dr. ROBERT EDWARD LEE, a general practitioner and
obstetrician, died March 5, 1982, in Short Hills, N.J.
Lee received his medical degree from Jefferson
Medical School in 1938 and interned at St. Barnabas
Medical Center in Newark. He was a member of the
American Medical Association, the Moon Association
of Pathology and the Theta Kappa Iota, honorary
medical association.

1937

REV. Horace L. BACHELDER, minister at the First
Parish in Plymouth, Mass., (The Church of the Pil-
grims, 1620) died Nov. 16, 1981. Bachelder received

44

his divinity degree from Yale Divinity School and his
first pastorate was the Congregational Church at
Oregon City, Ore., where he and his wife spent 25
years. In 1947 Bachelder was named as the First
Junior Citizen of Oregon City by the U.S. Junior
Chamber of Commerce. In 1971 he became minister
at the First Parish Church in Plymouth, a historic
pastorate. His wife, the former Evangeline G. Morris,
is the organist and choir director for the church.

RICHARD NorRIS BROOKE, a practicing attorney in
Front Royal, Va., for many years, died Jan. 27,
1982. He was amember and elder of the First Christian
Church, the Winchester-Shawnee Lions Club, the
Warren County Bar Association, and the Virginia
State Bar Association.

EMERSON DICKMAN JR., who was an outstanding
athlete at Washington and Lee, died April 27, 1981,
in Sparta, N.J. Dickman was a pitcher for the Boston
Red Sox until 1942 when he entered the United States
Navy and gained the rank of lieutenant. He was
varsity baseball coach at Princeton University from
1946 to 1952. He then became employed as eastern
divisional sales manager for Stromberg-Carlson Co.
in their radio and television division and held this
position until 1973. In 1973 Dickman became group
and season sales representative for the New York
Yankees baseball team. His office was at Yankee
Stadium.

1939

ALDERMAN Ray BASSETT, a retired Air Force major,
died Sept. 21, 1981. At the time of his death he was
living in Lake Geneva, Fla.

1942

JOHN BALDWIN MACBRIDE, aretired executive of the
Johns-Manville Sales Corp., died Jan. 8, 1982. Mac-
Bride first became associated with Johns-Manville in
January 1955. He was primarily in the advertising
field.

1944

WALTER SCOTT POPE, who had been a salesman fora
wholesale distributor since 1946, died March 25,
1982, in Maitland, Fla.

1947

JOHN A. MCWHOoRTER JR., a prominent attorney
with the law firm of King & King in Washington,
D.C., and a specialist in the public contract field,
died on April 19, 1982, while on a business trip in the
Republic of Panama. McWhorter moved to Wash-
ington, D.C., in 1950 and was a lawyer for the U.S.
Army working with the Corps of Engineers. He joined
King & King in 1955.

LESTER DAVID WALLERSTEIN JR., a former real estate
broker who later served with the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development in Richmond, Va.,
died Sept. 20, 1981. At one time Wallerstein was
with the Federal Housing Administration with offices
in Chicago. He had been a member of the Richmond

Junior Chamber of Commerce and Big Brothers, Inc.
Wallerstein was also the founder of the Richmond
area Lay Society of the Virginia Diabetes Associa-
tion.

1950

ROBERT HENRY SCULLY, who retired in 1979 as
northeastern regional manager of the Federal Glass
Division of Federal Paper Board Co., died Feb. 26,
1982. During World War II Scully served as a fighter
pilot with the U.S. Air Force.

JOHN A. MCWHORTER JR. (See Obituary 1947.)

1956

EDWARD MANT Hoop Jr., formerly an instructor at
Harvard University and later with Andy Warhol En-
terprises in New York City, died in April 1982. Hood
had engaged in film work in New York and Holly-
wood.

1960

WILFORD HAYES GOWEN JrR., formerly of Memphis,
Tenn., died at his home in Hendersonville, Tenn., on
March 5, 1982. Gowen was associated with Bryan,
Pendleton, Swats & McAllister, an actuarial and
consulting firm in employee benefits. At one time
Gowen had been with the First National Bank of
Memphis and for two years had been with the Trust
Co. of Florida in Orlando.

1968

GEORGE WEBSTER DEHOFF Jr., who established
Media Works, an agency in Richmond, Va., for mass
media and direct mail advertising, died March 22,
1982. DeHoff earned his master’s degee in mass
media research at Stanford University in 1971. From
1972 to 1977 he pursued an interesting and varied
career as a freelance writer in the advertising field in
New York City. He returned to Richmond in 1979.

DAVID TOBIN JOHNSON JR., an attorney in Pensacola,
Fla., died April 9, 1982, in Houston. He was a
partner in the firm of Clark, Partington, Hart, Hart
and Johnson. Johnson graduated with honors from
the University of Florida Law School in 1971 and
then served four years with the Navy J.A.G. Corps
before joining the Charlotte, N.C., law firm of Moore
and Van Allen. He returned to his home in Pensacola
to enter law practice in 1977. Johnson was a member
of the Escambia-Santa Rosa County Bar Association,
the Florida Bar, the North Carolina Bar and numerous
clubs and service organizations. He was a member of
St. Michael’s Church. Johnson was president of the
W&L Pensacola alumni chapter. A scholarship fund
for needy students was established in his memory at
the Episcopal Day School in Pensacola.

1978

PAUL SHERBORNE Coss, acommercial credit analyst
with the North Carolina National Bank in Greensboro,
died March 8, 1982. Cobb had previously lived at
Charlotte, N.C.

LO RDODL

A COMPLETE VACATION
EUROPE GIVES YOU OUTSTANDING TRAVEL VALUE
AT ONE AMAZING LOW GUARANTEED PRICE

 

 

 

 

 

 

YOUR 9-DAY TRIP ITINERARY FEATURES LUNCH and a sightseeing tour of OXFORD included on your
transfer.
Nea ee ee eta One) — ~ TWO NIGHTS stay at the deluxe STRATFORD HILTON HOTEL.
° Fly via wide-boaled jet trom New rorK tO ¢ A CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST served each morning.
LONDON, ENGLAND. Scheduled service (NOT CHARTER). In- - A complete SIGHTSEEING TOUR of STRATFORD-UPON-AVON.

flight service with meals and beverages served aloft. Movies,
stereo music, and alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge. LONDON (Days Five to Nine)

LONDON (Day Two) ¢ FOUR NIGHTS first-class accommodations at the LONDON
¢ Upon arrival in LONDON, you will be greeted by our escort and METROPOLE.

transferred via DELUXE MOTORCOACH to the LONDON * CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST served each morning.

METROPOLE HOTEL. Relax from your trip. Your first-class hotel * Comprehensive SIGHTSEEING TOUR of LONDON.

is conveniently located near major sites and public ¢ Festive FAREWELL BEEFEATER BANQUET.

transportation. :
* A WELCOME TEA will be served upon arrival. Many Extras included |
° A GALA WELCOME BANQUET with wine will be served at your * ALL ROUND-TRIP TRANSFERS by deluxe motorcoach with

hotel. professional hosts.

¢ LUGGAGE HANDLING and GRATUITIES provided on all transfers.

STRATFORD-UPON-AVON (Days Three and Four) ¢ EXPERIENCED TOUR DIRECTOR and HOSPITALITY STAFF at each
¢ A CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST served at your hotel. hotel.
¢ Private DELUXE MOTORCOACH transportation through the e A FREE GUIDEBOOK of England.

delightful English countryside, to SHAKESPEARE COUNTRY. ¢ FREE TIME daily in each city to pursue your own interests.

 

GUARANTEED PRICE
OUK ely GROUP PRICE

from New York

Prices based on per person double occupancy including all taxes, service, and gratuities.
ABSOLUTE GUARANTEE: This price will not increase.

Single Supplement $150.00

Add-on fares from gateway cities are estimated. Adjustments may be made at the time of billing.

Approximate add-on fares from gateway cities.
Philadelphia... ... i525 $ 96 Buffalo/Rochester ... $122 Minneapolis ...... $349
Baltimore/Washington ...... SO ae «ee $210 Richihond ........ $108
Pittsbermh ... oe $164 Detroit/Cleveland .... $180 Louisville ........ $178
indianapolis... 5 <. 4 S20; Cncinnai. <a Sie Oe 8 $ 90
Fares for additional add-on gateway cities available upon request. Contact England Desk:

Toll Free call: 1-800-523-4920 Pennsylvania call 800-462-2898.

 

 

Washington & Lee

University
October 22-30, 1982

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

 

 

We hope you join our England trip on our
special group date. Should this not be convenient, other
trips depart every Friday from September 10

to November 5, 1982. (All prices & guarantees apply.)
For Further Information and Brochure Contact: Thomson Travel
1-800-523-4920 or in Pa. 1-800-462-2898

 

i

Boe

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

Ce

Fall Sports Schedules

 

FOOTBALL

Sept. 18—Emory and Henry
Sept. 25—Centre College
Oct. 2—Randolph-Macon
(Homecoming)
Oct. 9—Maryville College
Oct. | 16—Hampden-Sydney
Oct. 23—University of the South
(Parents’ Weekend)
Oct. 30—Bridgewater College
Nov. 6—Catholic University
Nov. 13—Georgetown

y
Ch
,

CROSS COUNTRY
Sept. _25—Washington College

Mary Washington College

Oct. 2—Norfolk State
Roanoke College
Oct. 9—Catholic University
American University
Oct. 16—Virginia State Division II
& If Championships
Oct. 23—Bridgewater College
West Virginia Tech
Oct. | 30—Lynchburg College
Eastern Mennonite
Hampden-Sydney
Nov. 6—ODAC Championship
Nov. 13—NCAA Regional Meet
Nov. 20—NCAA Division III
Championships

HOME
Away
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME

Away

HOME
Away

Away
HOME
Away
HOME

HOME

HOME
HOME

Lynchburg

T.B.A.

Second Class Po:
At Lexington, Vi
And Additional \

 

 

SOCCER
Sept. 21—Eastern Mennonite Away
Sept. 26—Haverford Away
Sept. _29—Mary Washington Away
Oct. 2—Maryville HOME
(Homecoming)
Oct. 5—Roanoke Away
Oct. 9—Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 13—Gettysburg HOME
Oct. | 16—Messiah Away
Oct. | 19—Lynchburg HOME
Oct. 23—Radford HOME
(Parents’ Weekend)
Oct. 27—VMI HOME
Oct. | 30—Catholic University HOME
Nov. 2—Virginia Wesleyan | HOME
WATER POLO
Sept. 17-
18-19—W&L Fall Classic HOME
Sept. 25-
26—W&L Invitational HOME
Oct. 1-2-3—Slippery Rock Invitational Away
Oct. 8-9- |

10—Southern League Tourney Richmond
Oct. 15-
16-17—Bucknell Tourney Away
Oct. 22-
23-24—Southern League Tourney HOME
Oct. | 30—Va. State Championships HOME
Nov. 5-6-7—Southern League Champ’s. Richmond
Nov. 12-
13-14—Eastern Championships __ T.B.A.
Nov. 26-
27-28—-NCAA Champ’s. _ Long Beach, Cal.

MR DANIEL T BALFOUR
211 RALSTON RD

RICHMOND VA

23229

4

037556

 

