  

the alumni magazine of washington and lee universi SEPTEMBER 1983

 

 

 

Ce

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 58, Number 5, September 1983

Frank A. Parsons, 754 ..............ccceeeeececeeceseeeceeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................64. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ............... ccc ccc cece eee eeeee Associate Editor
Robert Fure .................0ccceeeeecceeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter ........... cece cece cece neces eeeeees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ................sceeeeeee eee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
W&L White House Chapter...................- 1
Starling and Jenks at Ease.................0... 5
George Taylor, Organ Maker ................... 8
Bill Hill Reports on His Vacation ............... 12
Alumni College in Photographs ................ 14
A Law Professor’s “‘Passion”.............00000+ 18
Scholarship Honors Cook ..............00 ees 21
WEL Gazette... 6 45 bei ce oe ve vi ee
Daly Is New Lacrosse Coach .............-.005- 31
Annual Fund Sets Record .............-..0008- 32
New Alumni Board Members .................. 34
Chapter NEWS «2... ci cece ae ta ree nan res 35
Class Notes 2.5.0... ccc ce ee Bee bes cies 38
In Memoriam ................2000065 oe 47

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas. |

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NoRMAN JR., 756, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OwFEN H. Harper, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MeCLinTockx III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
Henry NortTsBerc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyNor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rick M. TiLey JR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, 52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLBY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, IIl.

CY

v

ON THE COVER: A member of the Class of ’85 got a
headstart on the 1983-84 academic year, returning to campus
a few days early and finding a shady spot in front of the Col-
onnadeto write a short story—and it hadn’t even been assign-
ed! Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, °73.

 

 

 

 

White House News Summary Staffers (from left) Bruce Wilmont, ’80; Bruce Young, ’82; and, Ben Jarratt, ’82, at work in the Old Executive Office Building.

W&L’s White House Alumni Chapter

From Playing Santa Claus to Writing News Summaries for the President of the United States

by Jeffery Hanna

The purge began back in January when Ben Jarrett quit play-
ing Santa Claus and joined the White House staff.

By May it was complete: W&L was in; UCLA was out. And as
a consequence, the first thing the President of the United States
reads each and every day has been written almost entirely by three
Washington and Lee journalism graduates: Jarrett, ’82; Bruce
Wilmont, ’80; and, Bruce Young, 82.

* * *

It is 10 o’clock on a sultry August evening in Washington when
Bruce Young eases the compact car into a parking place on a side
street, grabs up the paper bag containing his lunch, and heads in
the direction of the high iron gate that is bathed in bright
spotlights.

As he approaches the gate, uniformed guards, one of whom
has a large German shepherd at his side, wave him through after a
cursory examination of the identifying credentials hanging
around his neck.

Once through the gate, Young walks up a closed-off street that
is now a parking area. On his left, imposing and gray in the glare
of the lights, is the Old Executive Office Building. On his right is
the White House.

Young turns left, enters a side entrance and proceeds along the
silent hallways of the now-empty, eerily-silent building. He is
reporting for his shift as an assistant editor with the White House
News Summary Staff. From the time he checks in at 10 p.m. until
the time he returns through the gate around 7 o’clock the next
morning, Young will be busy preparing one of the very few
documents that reaches President Ronald Reagan directly every
day—The White House News Summary.

Actually, to suggest that Young “‘prepares”’ the daily White
House News Summary is a bit misleading.

At the moment he has the night shift. That means Young is the
last member of the five-person News Summary Staff to work on
the document which ranges in length from 15 to 30 typewritten

 

White House

pages each day. He puts the report to bed every morning and
delivers the final product to the White House. |

Young’s fellow W&L alumni—Jarrett and Wilmont—work the
other two shifts. Jarrett is on days now, working from 9 a.m. to 6
p.m.; Wilmont is on evenings, starting at 3 p.m. and ending at
about the time Young is starting.

The three work for Editor Bill Hart and Assistant Editor
Sheila Dixon. The News Summary is part of the White House
Press Office under the control of Deputy Press Secretary Larry
Speakes.

Boiled down to its simplest terms, the White House News
Summary Staff’s mission is to make the president aware of what
the various news media are writing and saying about the
administration.

* * *

Ben Jarrett was working as Santa Claus for a Woodward and
Lothrop department store in Washington last December when he
heard of an opening in the White House News Summary Office
and applied. He was hired in January and spent the next five and
a half months on the night shift which Young is currently
working.

‘““When I was hired the other staff members were both from
UCLA and had both come to the office out of the campaign;’ says
Jarrett. “When I found out one of them was leaving, I wrote let-
ters to (journalism) Professor (Ronald) MacDonald and one of
my W&L classmates about the opening:’

In response to those letters, Young and Wilmont (Bruce
squared, as Jarrett calls them) applied. As it happened, two of the
staffers were leaving so both Young and Wilmont were hired.

“I keep explaining to people that we successfully purged the
office of UCLA grads and got W&L in power,’ Jarrett says with a
grin.

“Actually, one of the things that was in all of our favors was

 

“Asa journalist, you’re supposed to be objective
and be able to select the important facts and pre-
sent those facts in a concise manner...”

 

our journalism background. Until I was hired, the staff members
had not had journalism backgrounds and that is something that
they indicated to me they wanted for this office.

“What I brought with me from W&L has really helped in this
job. As a journalist, you’re supposed to be objective and be able
to select the important facts and present those facts in a concise
manner so that the reader will know what you’re trying to present.
I feel I’m comfortable doing that. The only difference is that we
happen to be writing for a different audience--the President of the
United States?’

* * *

When Bruce Young arrives for his shift this night, Bruce Wil-
mont is polishing the results of his day’s work--summaries of the
three network newscasts from that evening as well as edited ex-
cerpts of selected editorials from newspapers across the country.

Young’s first duty will be to walk three blocks to The
Washington Post building and pick up several copies of the next
morning’s newspaper, which has just come off the presses. Then
he will return to the second floor office and start scanning The
Post for stories about the Reagan administration.

2

Each story will be summarized in a few sentences and will in-
clude the writer’s name and the page on which the story appeared.
A typical entry looks like this:

SPOKESMAN DEFENDS REAGAN’S RECORD ON
WOMEN, WON’T RESPOND TO CRITIC
SANTA BARBARA—A White House spokesman repeated
President Reagan’s intention to fight discrimination against
women, but refused to address the charge from a Justice
Department official that the Administration has made “a
sham” of an effort to rid federal laws and regulations of gender
discrimination. Larry Speakes, meeting with reporters here,
would not respond to the allegations of Justice Department
official Barbara Honegger. Instead, Speakes reviewed Reagan’s
record on women’s issues and his appointment of women.
(David Hoffman, Washington Post, A5)

Throughout the evening Young will check the five wire service
machines for stories that are just developing and will include
those stories in the report.

About 1 a.m. a White House driver will drop a copy of The
Washington Times off and Young will dissect it in the same man-
ner as he has The Post. Sometime around 4:30 in the morning,
The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and other
newspapers arrive.

“That’s when this shift begins to get nerve-wracking;’ says
Young. “You have all the other material— The Post, The
Washington Times, and the wire services—on the word processor
and have to add summaries from the other papers:’

“Some mornings The New York Times and The Wall Street
Journal might be a little late arriving?’ adds Jarrett. “Then you
really have to scramble toward the end of the deadline. There were
mornings when the papers were late or the photocopier would
break and I would finish physically exhausted”’

Once all the material is written, Young puts his pages together
with earlier ones produced by the rest of the staff and prints 175
photocopies of the entire document. By 7 a.m., barring late
deliveries or photocopier malfunctions, Young takes 50 of those
copies and walks across the street to the West Wing of the White
House where he gives them to an usher who will, in turn, take a
copy to the president on the breakfast tray. If the president is
away, the report goes to the Situation Room from which it will be
sent to the presidential party. Other copies are distributed ta
various members of the administration.

“It does give you pause to consider that something you’ve been
writing, even if it is actually rewriting, is going to be read by the
president first thing every morning;’ says Young. “If I foul up, the
mistake will be one of the first things the President of the United
States sees?’

Young’s shift is not quite a third of the total operation. The
evening shift occupying Wilmont at the moment involves televi-
sion newscasts. He will listen to all three network newscasts, select
the stories about the Reagan administration and write a brief
report similar to those produced from newspaper accounts. Wil-
mont’s abstract includes the salient facts from the story, the
reporter and where it was played in the newscast—that is, whether
it was the first, second, third, or 10th story.

On a given evening the number of stories will vary. In a News
Summary for Monday, August 22, for instance, the network news
summary was three pages long and included three stories: the
gender gap and Barbara Honegger’s accusations against the ad-
ministration, Central America, and the assassination of Filipino
opposition leader Benigno Aquino.

As with the newspaper segment, the TV report simply presents

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wilmont, Jarratt, and Young in front of a familiar landmark—the White House

White House

the facts as the networks gave them.

‘““We’re trained to be very objective, to take what the reporters
say and try to present it in the same way, albeit with short and
concise sentences, so that we don’t leave any room for our inter-
pretations;’ explains Wilmont. ‘It is for the members of the ad-
ministration to decide how to use the material; it’s not our
decision?’

There are, however, important decisions for Wilmont and the
others to make. Primarily, it is a question of editorial judgment:
how much relative importance to attach to the various stories.
Just because the three networks put a story in the lead does not
mean the story will occupy a similar place in the News Summary.

“In our way, we are judging what is important;’ says Young.
“‘Just as a newspaper editor judges what should go on the front
page and what should go inside the paper, our placement has that
same kind of significance—maybe not as much, but at least in our
mind it does?’

“A perfect example?’ says Wilmont, “‘was the gender gap.
Those stories had not been the lead on the network newscasts. But
there was one night recently when I thought that it was the most
important story and I placed it above the stories on Central
America and the assassination of Aquino’

Too, there are instances when the editors can decide a story
ought to be included in the News Summary even though it has no
direct bearing on the administration.

‘“‘Take the story about drugs and the athletes at the Pan

 

“..4f I want to make absolutely certain that I'm
careful about what I’m doing, it helps if remind
myself who’s going to be reading it.”

 

American Games?’ says Wilmont. ‘That was the lead story on all
three networks. Even though it does not affect the administration,
I included one sentence about it in the television section simply
because it is an issue that might come up at some point?’

In addition to the “hard news” from the newspaper and televi-
sion sources, the typical News Summary will include summaries
of selected editorials and even letters to the editor from some of
the more than 200 daily newspapers the office receives.

And though the News Summary is the primary document that
the office produces, it is but one part of the overall operation.

At certain times each day Jarrett, on the day shift now, helps
prepare news updates by taking the latest wire stories, summariz-
ing them and sending the single page of news capsules to the
White House.

“That is primarily for the benefit of Larry Speakes, the deputy
press secretary. Since he has press briefings at various times each
day, we provide the updates just to keep him aware of the latest
news,’ says Jarrett. ‘It helps to know what is on the mind of the
news media?’

In recent weeks Jarrett has worked closely with News Sum-
mary Editor Hart on the creation of a White House Magazine
Summary, which is produced each Monday and does to the
leading U.S. news magazines what the daily News Summary does
to newspaper reports and newscasts.

Each Friday the office publishes a collection of editorial car-
toons known as “Friday Follies” and it, says Jarrett, is a prized
possession in the administration.

4

 

Too, the office provides a “radio actualities” service, taping
the president’s speeches, selecting important segments, and then
making those segments available by way of a toll free number to
radio stations around the country.

“We'll average 500 to 600 calls a day for stories, most from
small stations that can’t afford a network tie-in;’ says Jarrett.

There are sundry other duties. On certain Sundays, for in-
stance, one of the three has “arrival duty” and is responsible for
seeing that the news media is ushered out to the lawn of the White
House when the president is coming back by helicopter from a
weekend away.

* * *

Bruce Young considers his current position something akin to
being paid to conduct post-graduate study.

“It is a real education in terms of finding out how the major
political news in this country is disseminated;’ says Young. “I’ve
learned, for instance, that the news in most stories really can be
summarized in a sentence or two, no matter how long the story
runs in the paper.’

And though it is difficult, almost impossible really, to retain
objectivity while working within a political administration, all
three insist that the lessons in objectivity they learned in W&L
journalism classes have stood them in good stead.

“IT remember Professor (Hampden) Smith saying that one of
the best things in writing a story is not to care;’ says Wilmont,
who spent a year and a half as a writer for a small Virginia
newspaper. “I see how important that is now. It is a little harder to
stay objective because you do have political views, but you really
want to ignore them?’

That means that the News Summary is more than a Good
News Summary. The bitter is right there with the sweet, and some
days there may be more bitter than sweet.

‘“‘When I was working the night shift, there were a lot of stories
breaking about the Environmental Protection Agency,’ says Jar-
rett. “The newspapers emphasized that story a lot. Consequently,
my part of the News Summary emphasized it. But we are responsi-
ble for making the administration aware of how the media cover
what the administration is doing. Our work is a reflection of how
they’re covering it. We’d be doing the president a disservice if we
whitewashed it?’

As much as objectivity, the three find their W&L training has
helped when it comes to proofreading what they write. The last
thing any of the three wants is for the president to read one of
their typos.

“When I’m over here working I often forget that this is being
prepared for the President of the United States;’ says Wilmont.
“On the other hand, if I want to make absolutely certain that I’m
careful about what I’m doing, it helps if I remind myself who’s go-
ing to be reading it?’

Too, there are times when working in the White House (or at
least next door) makes for interesting conversation among friends
and relatives.

“If you look at what we do, it’s no different from what might
be done in another job somewhere. Doing it in the White House is
impressive?’ says Wilmont. “I’ll get letters from relatives who say
they’ve heard I’ve done this or that. And none of it’s true because
my parents have usually exaggerated. Still, that part of it is fun?’

For three journalism students just a few years removed from
the classroom, it could hardly be anything but fun. As Young puts
it: “The reporters may be history in the making. But we’re history
in the recording?’

 

 

by Robert Fure

Exeunt Starling and Jenks

Two Distinguished W&L Professors Are Undaunted by the ‘Dangers’ of Retirement

Professor Jim Starling

“To be able to fill leisure intelligently is
the last product of civilization.”
ARNOLD TOYNBEE

When Professor James Starling arrives
at high drama in his narrative, he prefaces
his point with a pet phrase, “‘Lo and
b’gosh!” It is a locution of a particular
pedagogy, Starling’s own, which combines
Aristotelean wonder, savory anecdote, and
the cagey restraint of an Alabama
gentleman.

There will be somewhat less amazement

 

Sally Mann Photo

in biology courses this fall. Professor Starl-
ing has retired. During the past year, Starl-
ing, still gesturing, backed into the man-
datory retirement age of 70. He had fully
spent his five bonus years beyond normal
retirement, teaching general zoology and
comparative anatomy and continuing his
long, distinguished service as coordinator
of the University’s pre-medical studies pro-
gram. But then, lo and b’gosh, he was 70.
One is perhaps always startled.

* * *

Starling grew up in Troy, Alabama, took

his bachelor’s and master’s degrees at the
University of Alabama and his Ph.D. in
zoology and ecology at Duke University. He
joined the W&L faculty in 1942, leaving a
year later for the Army’s Medical Corps
where he spent three years in the jungles of
the South Pacific.

“When I returned to W&L in 1946,
students began to refer to me as Jungle Jim.
It had always been Gentleman Jim before.
Then a few years later when I had two
nephews here at W&L, I became Uncle
Jungle?’ Starling throws back his head and
laughs, the affectionate humor and delight
in students his most definitive traits. “Of
course more recently I’m known simply
as...” the eyes twinkle as he forms the
syllables .. . “Jimbo:’

For 38 years Starling taught his heart
out, serving also on professional associa-
tions, civic boards, as University Marshal,
pre-med advisor, and, for a couple of years
near the end of his career, as department
chairman. “I haven’t done much
publishing. But you have to do what’s in
your heart. For me it’s been working with
students?’

Starling recalls how it was in the early
years: ‘‘There was very little money back in
those days, and nothing for research. You
had to work hard just to make a living. The
biology department shared the basement of
the chemistry building with geology. We
had only five microscopes between us. Why,
we were told W&L didn’t even have the
funds to replace the cracked toilet seat on
our floor. It pinched your rear end. So one
day I went and got a hatchet and beat it to
pieces. I then went up and told Mr. Matting-
ly [W&L's late, penurious treasurer], ‘Now
we don’t have a toilet seat? Lo and b’gosh,
we got a new one.’

As one who could take matters of mo-
ment into his own hands, Starling was the
right choice in 1963 to serve as coordinator
of the pre-med program. Over the next 20
years he counseled, cajoled, inspired, and
placed over 500 students into medical
careers. Under the guidance of Starling and
his colleagues, pre-med students became
legend on campus. In 1983, 83 percent of
them gained entry into medical schools.
The national average is 35 percent. Two of
the three valedictorians and 16 of the 29

 

students elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1983
were pre-med students.

“One year, 100 percent of our seniors
got into medical schools;’ Starling allows.
He gives the students all the credit. ‘““They
got themselves in. They’re darn good
students. All that we’ve had to do is to instill
in them some way to work hard”

Starling muses for a moment, then
resumes in an avuncular tone, softened by
his Alabama accent. ‘“‘SSometimes they have
trouble, you know. I remember one boy who
was going to drop out of the program
because organic chemistry was about to
make him lose his mind, he claimed. Well,
he called me late one night and wanted to
talk about it. So I invited him over. I sat up
with him, there in my pajamas, and talked
him out of it. I had a letter from him just
recently. He has a nice practice down in
Florida?’

* * *

Starling and his wife, Nell, who for
many years was secretary to Dean Gilliam
and then head secretary at the Sigma Nu
headquarters, live in a comfortable, well-
appointed home overlooking, serenely, the
Lexington Country Club. The home was
designed by their only child, John, who,
despite his father’s urging that he study ar-
chitecture, chose a career in medicine.
Today he is a surgeon in Montgomery,
Alabama. As a youth, John wanted to at-
tend W&L but couldn’t get his father to
agree to take a four-year leave of absence.
So John went to Davidson. Later, as a resi-
dent physician at Walter Reed Hospital,
John helped found the Seldom Seen, a na-
tionally prominent bluegrass band. He has
made a number of recordings.

‘A man needs a hobby;’ says Starling,
rising to his feet and walking toward his
record cabinet. He is indefinite as to his
own. ‘‘Oh, I have several?’ It is the remark
of aman who has not yet, psychologically
at least, abandoned his vocation. He still
wears a tie and white shirt around the
house. His walk, slightly pigeon-toed, in
steps too short, it seems, for his six-foot
frame—a John Wayne sort of walk—
combines movements of shoulders and
arms that go haphazardly in different direc-
tions, as if he were engaged in an inner
dialogue with students on his way toa
blackboard. He returns with one of his
son’s records. “I used to enjoy mowing the
lawn?’

His hobbies were his students, and they
still are. Nell, now also retired, helps Starl-
ing keep up with their letters. “The contact
with students, especially the type of boy
that comes to W&L;’ she says, “has helped
us to grow old a little better, don’t you

6

think, Jim? We had only one child, but I
feel like we’ve had 500?’ The correspondence
is formidable, especially since the
testimonial banquet held in honor of Starl-
ing’s retirement last spring.

Starling: “Besides my wife and my son,
the students have made my life. I’ve worried
about this one and that one, and some of
the ones that got into the worst trouble I
loved dearly. They taught me a lot of things,
and their letters continue to teach me”’

They were, of course, taught well by the
man who emphasized .. . “‘yes, Latin and
Greek prefixes and suffixes in combining
forms. There are only about 200 of them,
and they make all of that complicated
medical terminology clear and logical.
Starling used to keep Webster’s Interna-
tional Dictionary in the lab, explaining to
his students that medical school would re-
quire their knowledge of derivatives. ‘‘Look
up the word;’ he would say to them, enforc-
ing the lesson always by having the students
find the answers on their own. ‘‘The best
friend you have, young man, is Mr.
Webster!” For four years at W&L he was
always nearby.

* * *

Starling in retirement: he sits for a mo-
ment in his easy chair, his white hair im-
maculately combed, his shoes polished, his
tie a soft yellow. His fingers rise and fallina
momentary meditation. He allows Nell, by
his claim “an excellent secretary though not
a great typist;? a moment of supervisory
recollection, then rises to his feet once again
to retrieve another piece of illustrative
material.

Over his voice from a far room, she
acknowledges that he is not taking retire-
ment “sitting down?’ They have recently
returned from a tour in Scandinavia and
will travel again soon. “‘We will not be in
town in September.’

‘“Yes;’ says Starling, returning, “‘that’s
one of the many things I learned from Dr.
Desha [a late colleague in the chemistry
department]. Before the first term after you
retire begins, get out of town! We’re gonna
take a little trip somewhere. We don’t know
where yet. I cannot be here then?’

Nell nods. They are in accord and at
ease, a pair of old, expensive, very well
made shoes. Starling leans back, smiling.
‘You know, I’m living on borrowed time as
it is. I’ve had four coronary bypasses. I
know that I’m lucky to be around, so I’m
not worrying about anything. And death is
the least of my worries.

‘““You ask me what I am going to do
now?” Starling has been waiting for this
one. He leans forward to drive his point
home. ‘““Three words: I’m gonna /ive, I’m

gonna /ove, and I’m gonna /augh at it all?’
Lo and b’gosh.
* * *

William A. Jenks, the William B. Kenan
Jr. Professor of History and head of the
history department, entered retirement
through the front door, took off his
academic robes, surveyed the library,
selected a comfortable chair, and, without
much thought on the matter, undertook to
begin a new phase of his life. As to the
dangers of retirement, he was unimpressed.
He was home, he had his lovely wife, Jane,
nearby, a lawn that needed some attention,
a few letters to write, the prospect of a few
trips here and there—sufficient pleasures.
As to his 37 years of distinguished teaching
and scholarship, he felt very little senti-
ment, and certainly no regret. That was
that; this was this.

Unlike Starling, Jenks took his retire-
ment at 65. “‘I simply grew very tired of
papers. I enjoyed teaching right up to the
last, and I hope that this past year was as
good as some of the years I’ve had. I cer-
tainly had some good students—two
freshmen were as good as any I’ve ever
taught. That’s encouraging for the future.
But the paperwork was getting to me. I
really had reached the point where I didn’t
want to look at another paper and have
another earnest discussion with a student as
to why he got a B instead of an A”’ There is
no irritability in his voice, merely a matter-
of-factness that is the fiber of his resolve.

“Furthermore, | think it’s a good idea,
in history especially, for teachers to retire at
65. History is an awfully crowded field. We
ought to give way to some of the young
Ph.D*s, who after all have a living to make.
As for myself, I think I was ready for it
psychologically.’

So Jenks rose from his professorial chair
and left his office and his typewriter. The
author of major studies of Austrian
history— Vienna and the Young Hitler,
Austria Under the Iron Ring, and Francis
Joseph and the Italians, he simply turned
away from his labor, declining (politely) an
invitation during the last weeks of the
spring term to review a book on the Em-
press Elizabeth. He preferred not to. He had
served.

* * *

Jenks is an alumnus of Washington and
Lee (39). He first came to W&L through an
Alumni Scholarship from Florida, the
eldest son in a Depression-poor family. He
distinguished himself in history, graduating
magna cum laude, and went on to graduate
school. He took his master’s degree and
Ph.D. at Columbia, and joined the W&L
faculty in 1946 following his service in the

 

 

Professor Bill Jenks

U.S. Army and the Office of Strategic
Services.

Jenks was unmarried at the time. ‘‘Lex-
ington was not much of a place to meet
young women;’ he says, unblushing. “‘Dur-
ing one of our holidays I returned to my
hometown and remarked to an old
girlfriend—who had by that time gotten
married—that there must be some young
women I might get to know in town. She in-
troduced me to Jane, and I proposed to her
on my second date. You know, I’m a rather
conservative, austere, stand-offish fellow. I

 

Sally Mann Photo

think all that’s rather incredible?’

In 1970, Jenks was named head of the
department; a year later he was appointed
to the Kenan chair. Though a visiting pro-
fessor at several universities, Jenks chose to
spend his career at W&L—not from any
special attachment to his a/ma mater, but
out of respect for his wife’s wishes and cer-
tain of the fringe benefits to be found here.

It is no mean exaggeration to say that
Jenks became in time a minor institution at
W&L, a force to be reckoned with, certainly,
by any student of history. Several of his

 

students became noted historians
themselves: Robert Paxton at Columbia,
Henry Turner at Yale, Robert Van at
Michigan. “‘At one time there were three of
my former students teaching in the history
department at Michigan. When yet another
was mentioned for a position, I’m told that
several of their colleagues let out a great hue
and cry, ‘Not another of the Jenks
Mafia!’ ” Jenks fidgets with amusement.

* * *

George Bernard Shaw once said, “A
perpetual holiday is a good working defini-
tion of hell?’ Working definitions no longer
seem to interest Jenks, who no longer
works. On professional matters he is
resolute. ‘““The new President and the Dean
have been very kind in offering to me some
continuing relationship to the University
should I get unutterably bored. But I really
don’t intend to fall into that predicament. I
will not be returning to the classroom.

“TI have quite a lot of reading that I’ve
been wanting to do for a long time. I will
continue to read history, but I won’t be
writing any more of it—I’m not going to do
anything academic. I saw a flattering
reference to Manchester’s MacArthur. I
can’t stand MacArthur, but I guess I ought
to read about him. . . . I’ve been able to
read some very interesting Latin American
novelists lately. It’s a pretty flourishing
field. And I’ve just read some Dostoyevsky.
It was just marvelous. .. . At Christmas
Jane and I will go to Egypt. I imagine it’s
changed quite a bit since I was there during
the war. We may get to Paris at Thanksgiv-
ing, though I’ve seen quite a bit of Europe
over the years.

“.... ’m fine in the summer because I’m
nuts about baseball. And I like pro football.
I haven’t been able to attend any games
lately—I’m supposed to stay out of the sun.
This skin cancer business, you know. Six-
teen years ago it was serious. .. . That’s
another thing. I guess I’m beginning to run
down”’ Jenks chuckles self-consciously.
“I’ve had three different doctors operating
on me since January. I didn’t miss a day of
class, but I don’t want to make an imposi-
tion on my colleagues if something more
serious develops.

“.. . Jane gave me for my birthday some
music that I’m looking forward to. She was
a little worried about my being at loose
ends, and I suppose there will be days. I do
intend to listen to a great deal of music.

And I have a yard to take care of. I really
enjoy that. I’m not a gardener, but I really
enjoy weeding. I’m ashamed of the way it
looks now, but I don’t think I’ll be able to
do anything about it until we get some rain?’

Until then, nothing is lost.
7

 

by Jeffery Hanna

Stepping
Forward
Into the

Past

George Taylor Builds Organs
In the Age-Old Tradition

Photographs by Patrick Hinely, ’73

George Taylor (left) at work on the Holy Cross organ
and (right) with classmate James Ramsey at the
keyboard of the Mt. Carmel organ.

The sanctuary of the small country church
in Steeles Tavern, Va., reverberates with rich,
full, brilliant tones emanating from the hand-
some pipe organ that looms up majestically
from behind the pulpit of the Mt. Carmel
Presbyterian Church.

Even in the Monday morning emptiness
of the sanctuary, the powerful chorus of the
pipes sounding in harmony can send chills
down the spine. Outside, the temperature on
this mid-August day is creeping toward 100
degrees for a third straight day. Inside, two
small fans on either side of the organ bench
are whirring away unheard as George Taylor
and James Ramsey take turns at the
cowbone keyboard.

Nearly 20 years ago when they were

 

 

 

classmates at Washington and Lee, Taylor
and Ramsey had shared a common interest
in music. Today a magnificent organ in the
Mt. Carmel Presbyterian Church serves as
tangible testimony of their common
interest.

After graduating from W&L in 1964,
Taylor and Ramsey went their separate
ways. For Taylor, that meant three anda
half years in Germany as an apprentice to a
pipe organ builder in Hamburg and even-
tually on to Middletown, Ohio, where he
became a partner in an organ-building
shop. Ramsey, meantime, wound up at the
University of Virginia where he is a finan-
cial aid officer Mondays through Fridays
but returns to his home in Steeles Tavern on

Sundays when he is the organist at Mt.
Carmel.

Four years ago the former classmates’
paths crossed again when Taylor began
looking for a place to locate an organ-
building shop and Ramsey recommended
the Shenandoah Valley.

The result was the establishment of
Taylor & Boody Organbuilders in an old
schoolhouse on the outskirts of Staunton.
The further result was the construction of a
Taylor & Boody organ for the Mt. Carmel
Presbyterian Church.

“T can still recall saying to George while
we were in school together at W&L, and he
already knew he wanted to build pipe
organs, ‘Wouldn’t it be great for you to

 

 

 

 

build an organ for Mt. Carmel?’ ’’says
Ramsey. “Of course, neither of us ever
thought it would happen.

“But lo and behold?’

And with a sweep of his arm,

Ramsey gestures toward Taylor & Boody
Organbuilders’ Opus 8—a breathtaking
creation of 563 individually hammered lead
pipes housed in a white oak case.

* * *

George Taylor was infected by the rare
malady known as organ-building at a tender
age. “It is a disease’ says Taylor. “Once you
catch it, you’re fairly caught. I’ve been real-
ly caught up with it since I was a youngster.’

By the time he entered Washington and
Lee as a freshman, Taylor’s goals were fairly

 

 

well formed.

“I played the organ; I was interested in
how the pipe organ worked as early as 1956
when I was in my early teens;’ says Taylor.
“The actual commitment to building came
during the years I was at Washington and
Lee?’

Though the University did not then (and
does not now) offer a pre-pipe organ-
building curriculum, Taylor managed to
augment his more traditional course of
study as a sociology major with some prac-
tical experience in his chosen profession
through a happy coincidence: Taylor’s
tenure at W&L just happened to coincide
with the renovation of Lee Chapel. So
Taylor took it upon himself to see that the

Chapel’s Erben organ was not ignored dur-
ing the restoration process.

‘““When I heard the Chapel was going to
be restored, I went to Dr. (Fred) Cole and
talked with him about the organ. I took it as
a personal project to see that it was properly
restored;’ Taylor says.

He directed the University to a Rich-
mond organ-builder who performed the ac-
tual restoration of the Erben organ. And
along the way Taylor conducted indepen-
dent research into the organ’s history and
published a pamphlet as part of the Robert
E. Lee Undergraduate Research project.

His interest in the Lee Chapel organ
paid further dividends since the relationship
he developed with President Cole led to a
grant from the Ford Foundation to under-
write Taylor’s apprenticeship.

In Hamburg, Taylor began his organ-
building career by shoveling sawdust. But
for the next three and a half years he watch-
ed and he helped and he learned.

“As an apprentice, you learn more than
you think you learn and you’re always being
told that you don’t know anything, that
you’re no good;’ Taylor says. “After an ap-
prenticeship, if you have a head on your
shoulders it takes a while to make
everything work for you.

‘When I came back to this country I
wasn’t clear on what I wanted to do. I went
back to my grandparents’ home in
southside Virginia where I found an organ
to rebuild in a little church. It was then that
I realized I had learned quite a bit?’

After a year on his own Taylor joined
John Brombaugh and Co. in Middletown,
Ohio, as a partner. In seven years there he
worked on 30 organs.

‘““We made significant advances in
American organ building in those seven
years;’ says Taylor. ““We did many, many
things which hadn’t been done for hundreds
of years but have now become fashionable
again?’

When his partner chose to move to
Eugene, Ore., Taylor stayed behind in Ohio.
Then, in 1979, he and a new partner, John
Boody, began looking for someplace to
move. Taylor contacted his W&L classmate
and wound up in Staunton.

* * *

The mechanics of the pipe organ,
George Taylor says, are extraordinarily sim-
ple ... and exceedingly complex.

Taylor & Boody’s Opus 8 in Mt. Carmel
Presbyterian Church is a case in point.

Wind is generated by a rotary fan and
stored under pressure in a bellows behind
the organ. The wind is fed through a
wooden conductor to the windchest on
which stand the 563 pipes, varying in length

 

 

 

from two to 16 feet. The keys are connected
by thin strips of wood called “‘trackers”’ to
valves on the bottom of the windchest.
When a key is depressed the valve opens to
admit wind into those pipes that have been
opened by a stop knob on the front of the
console. The key action is all mechanical
rather than electronic as has been
customary for much of this century.

“Mechanically simple?’ says Taylor. And
in one sense the work being done by the
dozen craftsmen that comprise Taylor &
Boody’s shop is no different from similar
work being done in other organ-building
shops.

There is one significant difference,
however. Taylor & Boody start from scratch
both on the design and the construction.
That is, all the materials that go into their
pipe organs are made in the shop in Staun-
ton. Pig iron is melted down and cast in the
basement of the Staunton schoolhouse,
then sheets of the metal are hammered, cut,
and formed one by one to become a single
pipe ranging in length from a few inches to
16 feet.

““We could have the pipes made
elsewhere, and they would be fine?’ says
Taylor. “But we have chosen to make
everything right here on the premises. That
is relatively rare among the small shops in
America?’

Similarly every inch of the cabinet is
constructed in the shop—from the first nail
to the final procedure of fuming the oak in
ammonia to produce the rich finish.

Still, the process starts even before the
pig iron is melted down.

‘The organ builder has to have a
musical idea;’ says Taylor, glancing toward
the Mt. Carmel organ as he formulates a
response. “What would be successful to
meet the needs of the space and the needs of
the people? The entire organ has to be
designed before any single part of it can be
designed.

“You begin with the layout of the front
of the organ—what you see there is ob-
viously the most beautiful part. What is in-
side is not unlike what is inside your mouth
when you sing: it’s not particularly pretty to
look at, but it does the job. So the most ef-
fort is lavished on the proportions of the
case and the pipes which are in it. The rest is
developed from that?’

The arrangement of the pipes in the case
is, Taylor explains, as significant to the
organ as the shape of a violin is significant
to that stringed instrument.

“That arrangment is based on principles
that have been established over the cen-
turies. Whenever you build the organ
without those principles, you have trouble.

Inspecting one of Mt. Carmel organ’s 563 pipes.

That’s the modern way, however. Contem-
porary people, artists in particular, think
anything goes so long as it hasn’t been done
before. We have taken exactly the opposite
attitude in organ-building. That is, we must
understand what has worked for hundreds
and hundreds of years.

“An organ-builder from the year 1400
could look in the back of this organ in Mt.
Carmel and see that it was arranged
sensibly.’

That was not always the case in organ-
building, however. The traditions were inter-
rupted during the last 100 years in what
Taylor calls ‘an attempt to throw over the
past and make the organ into an enormous
beast of an instrument that it had never
been?’

There has been a renaissance in organ-
building. It began in the United States in
the 1930s and has become increasingly vital
since the 1950s.

“This renaissance had a lot to do with
people going to Europe after the second
World War and hearing organs that had ex-
isted since 1700 and 1800 and earlier and
becoming excited by sounds they were not
able to make at home. So we chose to bring
those sounds into our own churches. Anda
number of us went abroad to learn how to
create organs to produce those sounds”’
Taylor says.

Now Europeans and Japanese are com-
ing to the United States to see how
American organ-builders are working their
craft because “in a way we surpassed what
the Europeans were doing”’

As an example, the new wave of
American organ builders took organ pipes

 

from 17th-century European organs, ex-
amined the alloys, and discovered that the
“pure” lead used in those pipes was actually
98 percent pure but also included such trace
elements as bismuth, copper, antimony, and
tin.

“We reconstructed the impurities that
were natural to those metals and added that
back into the pure lead. The result is far, far
superior to anything we had been using”’
says Taylor. “In a sense we have been step-
ping forward into the past?’

In building an organ Taylor must be as
concerned with the visual quality as with
the tones that are produced in the pipes. It
is an interesting equation—visual and
auditory.

“Music is the most important thing?’
Taylor says. He pauses, wonders aloud
“how to say this?” then finally explains:
“People trust their eyes more than they trust
their ears. Most people think they have tin
ears and would not be able to tell the dif-
ference if the organ were electronic.

“So if you present them with something
of sufficient quality visually, they find it
easier to trust their ears. If we are successful
in what we do, you look at the organ and
become excited because it appeals to your
sense of beauty. And the music simply has
to relate to that. It locks into that
immediately?’

Successful? Taylor & Boody Organ-
builders have been that. Their reputation is
firmly established; Taylor & Boody organs
can now be found (and heard) in churches
in Richmond, Charlottesville, Cincinnati,
Vincennes, Ind., and now Steeles Tavern.

With one keyboard and 563 pipes, the
Mt. Carmel organ is actually the smallest
that Taylor & Boody has built to date.

Their biggest is now under construction.
It is being built for the chapel of the College
of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass.
When completed sometime in 1984, the
organ will stand 32 feet tall and will have
four keyboards and about 4,000 pipes, all of
them handcrafted in the Staunton
schoolhouse.

In order to accomodate that immense
project the builders had to cut a hole in the
19-foot ceiling of what was the school
building’s gymnasium just to fit the central
portion of the case into the building.

For Taylor, the project is exciting, of
course. Not to mention terrifying.

“People tend to think the bigger the bet-
ter. Naturally this project is creating a lot of
attention. People come to the shop just to
stand and gawk up at the cabinet?’ says
Taylor. “The trouble is we’ve been very suc-
cessful up to this point. Our reputation runs
the actual experience of those people play-

 

10

 

 

 

 

BRE a SSE t hee):

SRS

Taylor points to the drawing of the Holy Cross organ (left) while a Taylor & Boody craftsman turns part of the white oak case on a huge lathe (right).

 

 

Taylor and partner John Boody check the specifications on the Holy Cross organ.

ing our organs. They expect the very best.
There is an extravagant expectation that is
difficult to meet?’

If all goes well Taylor hopes that
sometime next June the organ, weighing
about 10 tons, will be loaded in sections on-
to a truck in Staunton and delivered to the
chapel in Massachusetts. Then Taylor will
spend another six months, maybe more,
tuning or “‘voicing”’ each individual pipe to
create the desired tones.

“It’s guesswork up to a point because
you really don’t know how it will sound.
You spend lots of sleepless nights wonder-
ing if it will work. You have to second-guess
all the acoustical problems. Unfortunately

people do build big organs that aren’t any
good, that don’t work. So it’s possible to fall
flat on your face. That’s the artistic pro-
blem. I don’t care how well you play, you
can walk in and hit all the wrong notes one
day.’

So far that hasn’t happened to George
Taylor. And there is no reason to suspect it
will.

* * *

The work on the Holy Cross organ is a
year or so from completion. Once it is
finished and in place Taylor believes the
Staunton shop can settle back into a more
routine existence, “‘building things we know
how to do with a minimum of attention and

 

flourish?’

Along the way it is incumbent upon
Taylor that he infect others with his disease.
He must be a ccraftsman, first. He must also
be a salesman. The price of a pipe organ
nowadays ranges from $50,000 to $500,000.
And that, Taylor says with a wink, “is a
bargain?’ Easy enough for him to say. Tough
to convince those who must foot the bill.

“What you must realize is that if your
builder takes enough time to work with the
pipes carefully and to make the most music
he can, then it will take time to build the
organ but you can depend upon it to work,
well, indefinitely,’ says Taylor.

The painstaking attention to detail
demands incredible patience. Taylor is in-
credibly patient.

“People don’t often get the opportunity
to build something of such extraordinary
value, something that can last and be ap-
preciated for centuries, something that can
take your breath away as an organ can;”’ says
Taylor

In the end George Taylor’s aim today is
not very different from what it was more
than 20 years ago when he and Jim Ramsey
were W&L classmates. He wants to build
pipe organs in the best tradition of that an-
cient craft.

So far he is well along the way of fulfill-
ing that aim. Already a Taylor & Boody
organ is considered something special in
music circles. As one of only five or 10
organ builders doing such exacting work,
the longer-range goal is fairly obvious:
George Taylor hopes that one day the name
Taylor & Boody will be to pipe organs what
the name Stradivarius is to violins.

 

 

11

by Bill Hill, ’29

Alumni College ’83

Or ‘What I Learned on My Vacation’ at W&L This Summer

Editor’s Note: Bill Hill and his wife, Lou-Lou, attended this sum-
mer’s “Law and Society” Alumni College, one of three highly suc-
cessful week-long vacation seminars for W&L alumni and their
families. Bill and Lou-Lou were among the Alumni College’s 14
returning “sophomores,” veterans from last year’s inaugural pro-
gram. Enrollment in this year’s programs totalled 103 par-
ticipants. The 1983 Alumni College also included 12 W&L faculty,
14 children, and a wide variety of guest speakers, including NBC’s
Lloyd Dobyns, *57, and Hollywood producer Paul Maslansky, *54.

With interest in the Alumni College rapidly increasing (the
program doubled its enrollment over 1982), W&L will again offer
three vacation seminars on new topics in 1984. Bill and Lou-Lou
Hill are again planning to attend, as Alumni College “juniors.”
Bill is a retired Washington journalist. He and Lou-Lou live in
Hilton Head Island, S.C., where he writes a book review column
for The Island Packet. The following article is reprinted from that
newspaper.

As I recall, my second-grade teacher was Miss Stinzing, a most
attractive little lady except for her insistence that “My Vacation”
was an ideal subject for a composition. Now, almost a lifetime
later, the Machiavellian editor of The Island Packet, Mr. Terry
Plumb, proposes that his dutiful Book Editor turn in a composi-
tion on—guess what—‘My Vacation”’

He little knows what he, and you, are in for. I did not “see a
cow” or “eat seven biscuits?’ or even “swim across a creek” You
might say my wife, Lou-Lou, and I reversed everything. Instead of
a vacation FROM school, we took a vacation IN school. We at-
tended a week-long study course on “Law and Society” at the
Alumni College of Washington and Lee University in Lexington,
Va.

Here are some of the things Jack and Jill—no, scratch that!—
Lou-Lou and I, with 30 classmates, did during a week of 6:45
a.m.-to-midnight curricula. To speak true, Lou-Lou and I skipped
the everyday aerobics. There wasn’t anywhere we were in such a
hurry to get to that we’d run, and we didn’t need to stand rigid and
push against a brick wall in order to be hungry enough for
breakfast.

Class began each morning at 8:30 a.m. and you’d better have
done your homework and read the seven books you’d been sent
months ahead or you’d learn from the faculty of law school pro-
fessors why it’s called “cross” examination.

Take the first day. Two texts: On Liberty, by John Stuart Mill,
and Civil Disobedience by Henry David Thoreau. Not exactly a
“piece of cake” for a “pupil”? used to John D. MacDonald and
Stephen King.

Beforehand, all I knew about John Stuart Mill was that
psychologist Catherine Morris Cox had written that Mill had an
IQ of more than 190, 35 points greater than, for instance, Charles
Dickens. Lou-Lou and I were agreed, however, Mill got none of
those IQ points from the quality of his writing, which had to have
been done with the unsharpened end of his pencil. Mr. Plumb
would never allow writing like Mill’s in The Island Packet.

12

W&L Law School Professor Lewis H. (Lash) LaRue would
have us know, however, Mill was an optimistic pamphleteer with
great faith in the law and who held forth on the “intrinsic good of
individuality” in that the law should never restrain the individual’s
freedom unless his acts harm others or he fails to live up to his
human obligations.

If that doesn’t bring tears to your eyes, take Thoreau, the ser-
monizing pessimist who went to jail rather than pay a poll tax and
argued that the best government wouldn’t govern at all. Though
he distrusted law, Thoreau—mirabile dictu!—believed in justice.
Whatever he believed, however, didn’t make him happy with the
system. We found him not one whit more cheerful than Mill.

The Q-and-A discussion periods on all this tended to confirm
a statement made by a number of the lawyers attending the
course. On the first day, a lawyer from Keysville, Va., confided to
me, “I don’t really like lawyers?’ Of course, in Henry VI,
Shakespeare wrote “The first thing we do, we kill all the lawyers?’
but I hadn’t suspected lawyers might feel the same way. A classroom
survey indicated, however, this might be the case. Certainly, to
hear lawyers hacking at each other over Mill and Thoreau, I could
imagine bloodthirsty Shakespeare chuckling in the cloakroom.

Believe me, the writing in our textbook took an upturn as Law
Professor Andrew W. McThenia Jr. led us into contemplation of
the George Bernard Shaw play, Mrs. Warren’s Profession. Even so,
some of us thought Masters and Johnson could have taught Shaw
a thing or two. Here, however, instead of lawyers waxing
belligerent, it was the gentler sex among us. Here was a play in
which an ERA type of daughter discovers her mother’s profes-
sion, which had provided funds to educate her to what she regards
as equality with males, had been the world’s oldest. Convention,
respectability, law, morality, hypocrisy, socialism, Marxism,
justice—those are the things with which a female brouhaha can be
made. It was.

Lou-Lou and I hurried from that to seek forgetfulness in a
haunting lecture on poetry and Robert Frost by Robert Fure,
director of W&L Summer Programs and an English professor. It
has little to do with “Law and Society;’ but here I must inject
some of the thoughts we were given to share:

“Poetry begins in life, ends in wisdom. . . . In poetry, language
is greater than story. . . . Poetry has the sound of gold in the
ore. . . . In poetry, wildness, mystery and caprice are settled down
by theme or subject matter. . . . Poetry gives pleasure as it clarifies
life and provides a momentary stay against confusion. . . . Poetry
helps us remember something we didn’t know we knew”

With the study of Billy Budd, by Herman Melville, and The
Secret Sharer, by Joseph Conrad, the writing had melody, but to
my lay mind law and justice became convoluted. Thoreau, that
devotee of justice, would have wept over the injustice suffered by
handsome hero Billy Budd. How he’d have railed against the
British naval law requirement that a sailor has to be hanged,
however justified he may have been in dealing a death blow toa
tyrannical superior.

And Conrad, with that mind of a strange darkness, probing
both the condemnation and the sympathy we may feel for a killer.

 

Bill Hill in class

We “pupils” were thankful we were led through all these shadowy
nuances by Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, a professor of English
from whose style and humor Mill and Thoreau could have learned
much.

Coming up next for our legal tape measure were A Good Man
Is Hard to Find, by Flannery O’Connor and Noon Wine, by
Katherine Anne Porter. I confess to squirming a bit as my wife
waxed lyrical about a good man being hard to find but I found a
brother in Mr. Thompson, a Porter character who had a story to
tell but had trouble finding anyone to listen. Both these stories
delve into the significance of sanity and insanity in a murderer,
something that required a back-and-forth dialog between Law
Professors LaRue and McThenia to try to make it all clear. Even
so, they had to seek help from an outside psychoanalysis of one of
the fictional murderers.

Perhaps you'll better understand the tenor of “‘my vacation” if
I tell you that studying Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, a real
legal whoop-de-doo, came to us as joyous comic relief. Maybe
that was because we were first shown the British film of the play,
or maybe it was because we again had the gently humorous scalpel
of Sid Coulling dissecting the elements of human and divine law
to establish the theme of the play as being one of mercy.

I must confess I never realized how 20th-Century-Broadway
Shakespeare wrote in Measure of Measure. Here we have the
mighty Angelo telling Isabella, sure, he’ll save her brother from
beheading if only she’ll share his bed. That called for the
Shakespearen stage device that Sid Coulling called the ‘“‘bed
trick’-~in the darkness substituting an old Angelo love for the in-
nocent Isabella.

If you stop and think about our week’s cram course in ““Law
and Society;’” you’ll understand why Lou-Lou and | felt it perfectly
fitting that, the afternoon we were allowed canoeing, we were
swept down the rapids backwards. Other “recreation” included
studying word processing on a computer and the art of Chinese
brush painting.

Two evenings we were allowed non-legal input. One night it
was to see the old Buster Keaton silent film, The General. Several
law-weary “pupils” slept through it. The other evening, we saw a

local drama group present Morning’s at Seven, and we wished
morning was that late.

On the last night, however, our legal whip-crackers got us back
on track. We were shown a Paul Maslansky film, Love Child, with
more legal twists than Hilton Head Island has alligators. Love
Child is a true story based on a one-time Florida law that required
the state to care for both baby and mother where a child was born
to a woman in prison. Paul Maslansky himself was present for the
showing and some law-sharpened questions from us “‘pupils?’

Our last day, appropriately for zealous law students, was given
over to the summing up. First, we indicted all of our school books
in a six-verse lament sung to the tune of “‘The Prisoner’s Song?’

For instance:

Oh, we wished we’d had good books to study
Some books we’d have found could be fun.
We shout “No” to this Flannery O’Conner,
And John Stuart Mill’s not the one.

We had hoped for a whale tale from Melville,
But got just an old sailor brawl,

And the author of Measure for Measure,

We quote but we don’t read at all.

Then the faculty came up for judgment. The oldest “‘pupil;’
(80), Dr. Harry Lyons, of Richmond, the class wit, gave evidence
in Shavian fashion, and Roscoe Reynolds, a fire-breathing pro-
secutor from Ridgeway, Va., demanded indictment of the faculty
for conspiracy. A true bill was voted unanimously.

Miss Stinzing always wanted to know what I’d learned from
“my vacation” and I suppose that belongs in this composition.

I recall an incident early in my newspaper career, an occasion
when—for the first time—I was compelled to try and fill the shoes
of the city editor on an afternoon when there was a major fire and
a shooting at about the same time. Drunk with power, I sent out
all my reporters. All went well until they began to phone back for
the next edition and I was faced with the problem of trying to talk
on two telephones, take notes and write two stories at the same
time. Only one other person was in the office—the boss. He noted
my plight. Did he volunteer to help me? Oh, no! All he did was
call across, ‘Remember, Bill, there ain’t no justice!”

The boss was right. My vacation re-confirmed this. Lou-Lou
puts it this way: “How can there be justice when you combine the
conflicting claims of opposing lawyers, the scepticism of a judge,
and probably towering prejudices among the members of a jury?
If you can think of justice as ‘broth’, that’s a good many ‘cooks”’

Back in the ’30’s, writer Ben Hecht wrote some doggerel in a
movie he and Charles MacArthur produced called Crime Without
Passion. It’s mirror to my point. If I remember right it went like
this:

Here’s to the courts of justice,

Of rigamarole and writs,

Where poised, and prim and particular,
Society cooly sits,

And judges the sins of the sinner

By the depth of his counsel’s wits.

13

 

  
 
    

Alumni
College
1983

   
 

88 eT
Rs ss
aE

    

 

tc

 

 

14

 

SN

 

 

15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16

 

 

 

17

  
    
  
   
    
  
     

     

and he is adjudged the ordeal by cold ‘murder? : a -—-_ before Magna Carta was that a defendant
water—an interesting | little exercise in which _ Groot nev “¢ id determi there — was accused by a jury which brous ht

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
  

 

      

w these days, unless
| > Roger D. Groot.
equally intricate, equally intriguing criming
Justice system of 12th-century England.
_ Groot’s interest (actually, “passion” -
may be more apt) in the period began qui 1:
accidentally while he waslooking for
background ona legal phenomenon known ~
as “the presumption of murder’ — |
18 |

 

 

 

Professor Roger Groot

The ordeal, traditionally thought to be
the way such a verdict was reached, was ac-
tually closer to a sentencing function; the
two possible sentences were either hanging
or abjuring the realm.

 

“It has?’ Groot says, ‘‘always been a
mystery how the English came to use the
jury as proof. It is not secret to me because
the ordeal had become an appendage to the
system before 1215°’

In 1215 the ordeal was dropped from the
English system when the Fourth Lateran
Council at Rome forbade clerics from par-
ticipating in the ordeal. Since an acceptable
ordeal required that a priest bless the water,
the viability of the ordeal was removed
when priests were no longer permitted to
give the blessing.

‘“When the English decided to obey the
church injunction and not try to force a
priest to bless the water for an ordeal, it was
the most natural thing in the world to go in-
to the jury system;’ Groot says.

That is but half of the story Groot has
uncovered. The second half deals with
private prosecutions.

As Groot explains, a private prosecution
was called an “appeal: The victim of a rob-
bery would ‘‘appeal” the accused person of
robbing him. If the defendant confessed to
the robbery, he would be hanged. If he
denied it, the traditionally accepted
paradigm was that a judgment of combat
was issued. That meant that the accuser and
the accused would wage a duel. If the accus-
ed was defeated, then he was hanged. If the
accused was successful in the duel, then the
accuser was fined for bringing false charges.

But as in the case of public prosecu-
tions, the paradigm does not hold because,
says Groot, ‘“‘there was a mechanism for in-

terposing a jury in those private prosecu-

tions as well?’

Reconstructing the system on the, basis
of the cases he has studied, Groot argues
that the defendant in private prosecutions
could enter a special plea called “de odio et
atia’” (of odium and hate).

‘““What the defendant is saying is that ‘I
didn’t do this. My accuser is accusing me
maliciously—from hate and spite? And that
was a jury question;’ says Groot. ‘““What
was being asked the jury in reality was: ‘Was
there a crime at all? And if there was did
this man do it?’ If the jury said there was no
crime, they said it by saying this was a
malicious prosecution from hate and spite.
Then the accuser was fined.

“Tf the jury did find a crime had been
committed and that the accused did, in fact,
commit the crime, then the combat would
follow with the accuser and accused
fighting a duel with leather armor, shields,
and a horn-tipped cudgel. If the accused

19

 

   

- S

 

   

 

“mute, and th the state has to prove guilt.
- “The divergence j in the two systems is

 

  
 
 
  
  
  

 

    

posed to determine the guilt or inn
7 7 This system of private prosecutions had
| itricacies. It was, for instance, possi-
- ble for the two parties, the accuser and the

accused, to “concord” the prosecution. __
pula be made in

 

     

   

/
j

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

  
 

in public prosecu-
ict jury, not just an ac-
ht the cases to the

 

  
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

:
an
Bt
4

at a bit depressing? Shouldn’t we
farther in 800 years?

ro xt closes the notebook and sits back
in his chair, hands again clapsed ama his

   

     
 
   

| ponding in his soft |
- ople ew often in favor of looking

  

7 if there was a statement of specific i in- | they ve sammore perfect

evidence but required the joinder _ perce

of 16 more jurymen if there was no state-

ment of evidence. That is the most rational

thingintheworld?
Groot admits his res

of stuff that will likely excite students in his

 

   
 

 
 

kind of mentality. |
_ ampton about the v way Wy things Ww were.

 

:
am
;
/

 

 

 

     

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s

 

 

       

 

 

 

 

Photo shows the late Jim Cook playing piano for
the wedding of his cousin, Fielder Cook, °46, in
January 1983. Photo by Ww. Patrick Hinely, °73.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ | | a | _ James Tucker Cook Jr., assistant pro-
Oo fessor of music at Washington and Lee,
died July 5 in a Waynesboro, Va.,
| | hospital following a brief illness. He was
| | 51.
| _ The University has received a gift of
| _ $25,000 from an anonymous donor to
oo So establish an endowed scholarship in

OB | - _ memory of Cook. The James Tucker

 

ee | | a Cook Jr. Memorial Scholarship will be
oe awarded to a W&L student who has”
demonstrated financial need and is an ac-

 

Waynesboro,
bachelor’ Ss

a

   

   

Baldwin

 

  

instructor in piano and organ at Stuart
Hall in Staunton a 19%

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
       
    

and Lee in 1968 as :
music. He was

1 as an organist and a
courses in the history
“conducted research on
chamber music of the 17th

   
 
    
 
  
 

 

ship, c/o. Development Office,
Washington and Lee Universit , Lex-
ington, Va. 24450.

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

&L” Gazette

New Professorship; Popular Elderhostels; Shaffer To Direct Law Center

 

 

duPont Professorship
established in religion

Washington and Lee has received a grant
of $550,000 from the Jessie Ball duPont
Religious, Charitable and Educational
Fund of Jacksonville, Fla.

The $550,000 grant and a previous grant
of $200,000 from the duPont Fund will
form a $750,000 endowment in support of
faculty salaries and will be recognized
through the establishment of the Jessie Ball
duPont Chair in Religion at Washington
and Lee.

Announcement of the grant was made
by Washington and Lee University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson.

““We are truly grateful to the Jessie Ball
duPont Fund for this magnificent endow-
ment grant;’ Wilson said. ‘‘Our intention to
compensate adequately a distinguished
faculty depends, in large part, upon the
enlargement of our endowed resources. The
duPont Fund’s magnificent grant is an im-
portant step in that direction?’

Wilson said that the duPont Professor-
ship will be established in the 1984-85
academic year and will be occupied by the
future head of the department of religion.

The duPont Fund was established in
Mrs. duPont’s will and is designed for the
philanthropic support of charitable ac-
tivities, notably in higher education.

A native of Northumberland County,
Va., Mrs. duPont was awarded an honorary
degree from Washington and Lee in 1947 in
recognition of her support of higher educa-
tion. She was a trustee of W&L from 1959
until her death in 1970. duPont Hall, the
University’s fine arts building, was named
in Mrs. duPont’s honor.

 

 

Chemistry department
gets Hewlett-Packard grant

Washington and Lee’s department of
chemistry has been awarded an equipment
grant for a new gas-liquid chromatograph
from the Hewlett-Packard Company.

The $17,000 instrument, which was
recently installed in the University’s

22

 

chemistry laboratory, will be used for
W&Ls Robert E. Lee Research Program for
undergraduate students and in the depart-
ment’s course in chemical instrumentation.

A gas-liquid chromatograph separates
and analyzes the chemical components of a
mixture.

The Hewlett-Packard equipment grant
was arranged for Washington and Lee by
Dr. Robert R. Freeman, manager of the
company’s gas chromatography applications
division. Freeman visited the W&L campus
last January as a guest lecturer for the
chemistry department’s weekly seminars.

‘“‘When he visited our department in
January Dr. Freeman saw the equipment
that we have and asked whether we could
make use of a gas chromatograph,’ ex-
plained W&L chemistry professor Michael
A. Pleva, who coordinated the grant for the
University. ‘““We assured him that we could
make considerable use of the instrument”’

John H. Wise, head of the W&L
chemistry department, added that the
Hewlett-Packard grant “‘represents a splen-
did addition to the chemistry laboratory’s

 

Chemistry professors Michael A. Pleva (left) and John H. Wise examine the gas-liquid chromatograph
presented to the University’s chemistry department by the Hewlett-Packard Company.

 

equipment. This is as fine an instrument as
any college or university chemistry depart-
ment could want, certainly at the
undergraduate level?’

 

 

Brain cells stirred
at W&L Elderhostels

The complexities of the federal income
tax laws were the focus of the animated
discussion in one of Washington and Lee
University’s lecture halls one week this
summer.

As the class progressed, hands were con-
stantly in the air throughout the room as
the students attempted—often with a sense
of urgency—to pose a question or inject a
comment into the conversation.

“One at a time?’ the professor pleaded.
“We'll try to get to everyone’s question
before we finish?’

A class of eager law students, perhaps?
Or maybe some enthusiastic undergraduate
students?

Actually, it was neither. In fact, the class
in question was composed of 38
“Elderhostelers;’ men and women 60 years
of age and above who were spending a week
on the Washington and Lee campus as part
of the national Elderhostel program of
short-term, residential educational pro-
grams for older people.

Washington and Lee is one of more than
500 educational institutions throughout the
country which offered the Elderhostels this
year.

W&L was host to its first Elderhostel a
year ago. This summer, the University cam-
pus is the site of two Elderhostels—the first
was held July 3-9 and the other July 24-30.

Clara Kerr, a retired schoolteacher, came
to Lexington all the way from her
hometown of Panora, Iowa, to participate
in the first of W&L’s two Elderhostels.

““You can vegetate after you retire if
that’s what you choose to do. Or you can
stir your brain cells by coming to a program
such as this;’ she said, explaining her
presence in the Elderhostel.

Kay Fuller is 81. She drove to Lexington,
by herself, from Melbourne, Fla., to take
part in the program.

Was what awaited her at W&L worth the
long drive?

“This has been marvelous, simply
marvelous,’ she says. ““The food (in W&L’s
Evans Dining Hall) is the best I’ve ever
tasted in a dining hall. The room (in the
University’s Woods Creek Apartments) is
immaculate, comfortable, and roomy. The
people have all been wonderful. And the
classes are out of this world?’

 

The classes are central to the Elderhostel
experience and feature members of the
Washington and Lee faculty as the teachers.
In the first Elderhostel, for instance, W&L
law professor J. Timothy Philipps taught
the course on taxation while music pro-
fessor Robert Stewart taught modern music
and art professor Gerard M. Doyon taught
a course on French impressionism.

For the second Elderhostel later in July
the course offerings were “Geology of the
Blue Ridge” taught by geology professor
Edgar Spencer, “Historic Site
Archaeology” taught by archaeology pro-
fessor John McDaniel, and “Higher Math
for Everyone” taught by mathematics pro-
fessor Wayne Dymacek.

In addition to the daily class sessions the
Elderhostelers could choose to participate
in a variety of other activities during the
day and also at night. Those activities rang-
ed from a tour of historic Lexington to
aerobics to an early morning nature walk to
square dancing to a demonstration of
Chinese brush painting by W&L artist-in-
residence I-Hsiung Ju.

For Virginia Starr of Marblehead,
Mass., the W&L Elderhostel was her 15th
such experience. And as an Elderhostel
veteran she rated the W&L experience near
the top.

“IT choose the Elderhostels I attend by
geography and by the courses that are
available;’ she said. ‘“This Elderhostel is way
ahead of many that I have attended because
of a lot of little touches such as flowers in
the room and on the dining room tables.

“The classes are fascinating, too. I had

been particularly interested in attending the
sessions on French impressionism but
found myself equally interested in the
courses on taxes and modern music’

As enthusiastic as the Elderhostelers
have been about the W&L program, their
faculty members were equally enthusiastic
about the sessions.

“These people are less reticent in the
classroom situation than law students are,
and law students are known for not being
the least bit reticent; said Philipps. “You
certainly don’t have to worry about what
you’ll say next. There is never a dull mo-
ment in the classroom.

““What has really been interesting is that
they’ll tell me things and present situations
from their experiences that I was not aware
of. And in addition to being extremely will-
ing students, they are also very
appreciative?’

Washington and Lee made the second of
its Elderhostel sessions available to non-
residential, day “students” who were able to
attend all classes and activities and also eat
lunch and dinner at Evans Dining Hall.

 

 

 

Shaffer to direct
Lewis Law Center

Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law at
Washington and Lee and a renowned
scholar in the area of legal ethics, has been
named the director of the Frances Lewis
Law Center in the W&L School of Law.
Shaffer succeeds Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,

 

 

     

 

& Gazette

who is the new dean of the W&L School of
Law and who made the announcement of
Shaffer’s appointment.

“IT am genuinely delighted to be making
the announcement of Tom Shaffer’s ap-
pointment;’ said Kirgis, who served as
director of Lewis Law Center for five years.

Shaffer had served as interim director of
the law center during the 1983 spring
semester while Kirgis was a visiting pro-
fessor of law at the University of Michigan.

“Tom will promote first-rate scholarship
in the Law Center, and that is precisely what
we're after,’ said Kirgis. ‘“While he was in-
terim director, he planned several important
projects and showed what an enormously
productive person he is?’

Shaffer came to W&L from the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, where he taught for 17
years and was dean of the law school from
1971 to 1975.

A native of Montana, Shaffer received
his B.A. degree from the University of
Albuquerque in 1958 and his law degree
from Notre Dame in 1961.

He has written extensively on the topics
of legal ethics and estate planning. His
latest book, published in 1981, is entitled
On Being a Christian and a Lawyer. He is
the author or co-author of seven other
books, including Death, Property, and
Lawyers (1970), The Planning and Drafting
of Wills and Trusts (1972, second edition
1979), and Legal Interviewing and Counsel-
ing (1976).

In May, Shaffer was the recipient of the
St. Thomas More Award from the School of

 

Professor Tom Shaffer

Law of St. Mary’s University in San An-
tonio, Texas. The award is for outstanding
achievement in the field of law.

The Frances Lewis Law Center which
Shaffer will direct was established in 1972
through a $2 million endowment from
Frances and Sydney Lewis of Richmond,
Va.

The Lewis Law Center is designed to
focus on developing knowledge “at the
frontiers of law:’ The center supports study
by visiting scholars, visiting judges, and
visiting attorneys as well as research pro-
grams for students and W&L law faculty
members.

 

In recent years the center has sponsored
several important colloquia on such diverse
subjects as uranium mining, international
terrorism, and aircraft disasters.

One of those colloquia, held in February
1982, resulted in an important paper by
Columbia University law professor Willis
Reese on the choice of law in aircraft
disaster cases. The paper was used exten-
sively in a federal district court’s decision in
the case of the Air Florida crash in
Washington, D.C., in 1982.

Shaffer has already scheduled a special
colloquium to be led by Professor Robert
A. Burt of the Yale Law School on legal
developments leading to and following from
the Dred Scott case. That colloquium is
scheduled for April 1984..

 

 

ROTC unit claims
state honors

Twenty-six cadets from Washington and
Lee’s Reserve Officers’ Training Corps In-
structor Group earned top state honors at
the 1983 ROTC First Region Advanced
Camp held at Fort Bragg, N.C., during the
summer.

The W&L cadets were competing
against members of ROTC units from 110
universities and colleges from 24 states and
Puerto Rico. Washington and Lee’s detach-
ment to the camp finished ahead of the 10
other Virginia college and university units
which were represented at the camp. W&L

 

 

 

by Milton Colvin

Professor of Politics

Peace Movement
in Germany

and Nuclear Freeze
Movement

in Montana

In the summer of 1981 I went to Ger-
many as a NATO Fellow. My plan was to
talk with students at the University of Got-
tingen about the burgeoning Peace Move-
ment in West Germany and what seemed to
be a drift, particularly among young peo-
ple, toward a policy of Neutralism.

In London I had talked with some
friends in the Strategic Institute and with
some German officers who were studying at
the Royal Defense College. From both I
picked up some ideas and I got some more
ideas in Germany.

I quickly got in touch with several
political scientists at the University of Got-
tingen, including one professor who was
familiar with American survey data. He and
some of his graduate assistants were willing
to lend a hand. What I wanted to do was ar-

range in-depth interviews with students
from a variety of political backgrounds and
persuasions. I ruled out communists. It was
easy to predict what their views would be.

It quickly became apparent from the in-
terviews that supporters of the Peace Move-
ment as well as those active in it were
motivated by a number of reasons, but
chiefly the fear that any war in Germany—
conventional or nuclear—would mean the
end of the German nation and the German
race. Statements by President Reagan and
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger about
the possibility of a “limited war” in Ger-
many merely increased this fear.

Many of these students had completed
their required military service and some had
served as liaison officers with American
units. Their comments about the battle-

 

 

24

 

was 13th out of 119 schools overall, which
represents a substantial improvement from
a year ago when W&L’s unit finished 34th.
More than 4,300 cadets attended the camp
at Fort Bragg.

The six-week course in which the cadets
were engaged was not exactly an ordinary
college summer school. Cadets received
training in a variety of subjects such as
weapons, first aid, communications, how to
travel cross-country at night while alone,
and small unit tactics.

Washington and Lee cadets finished
above the camp average in all scored events
and particularly excelled in land navigation,
tactical applications exercises, and peer
evaluations.

Lt. Col. David F. Fowler Jr., professor
of military science at W&L, said that
“overall the performance of W&L cadets in
the Advanced Camp was a notable success
and a tribute to the citizen-soldier tradition
here. The challenge for those participants
who will return as seniors this
capitalize on their

  
  
  

 

them
and

 
  

as

 
 

worthiness
critical. They
American army
determined Soviet attack.
fact that Germany had a
America did not. They felt draft
would improve the quality of the American
forces and thus give some credence to the
conventional defense of Germany.

Other students were or had been con-
scientious objectors and were performing or
had performed alternative service in
hospitals. Many of these students felt that
nuclear war could not be squared with
Christian principles. They argued that the
lethality of modern weapons made a
mockery of the old concept of “‘a just war.’
Indeed, the German churches were in the
forefront of the anti-nuclear war move-

  

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

 
  

   

Professor

The
September
made

 
 
 
 

ed at
from the

   
 
  

Professor Milton Colvin

  
 

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 

Cecil joined the faculty at Washington
and Lee in 1982. He had previously been a
professor of history at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill where he
won a Tanner Award for “excellent and in-
spirational teaching?’

A native of Beaumont, Texas, Cecil
received the B.A. from Rice University and
the Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

Cecil’s major research fields are 19th
century Europe and Germany. He recently
returned to Lexington from Germany where
he had spent two months concluding
research on the first volume of a two-
volume biography of William II, the last
German Kaiser. He conducted the research
under a grant from the American
Philosophical Society.

Cecil is the author of a 1967 book entitl-
ed Albert Ballin: Business and Politics in
Imperial Germany, which was published by
University Press with a Ger-
published in Hamburg in 1969.
The German

  
    
   

of

Hitler

 
 
 
  

  

twice
militarism was dead,
me.

Not all students
Peace Movement.
supported the NATO and were
quite willing to have Pershing missiles
brought to Germany if meaningful disarma-
ment talks between America and the Soviet
Continued on Page 26

   
 
 
  

  

the

       
   

 

 

ioe.

  

  

él Gazette

 

 

Helena W. Roller
Bookstore manager

Helena W. Roller, manager of the
bookstore at Mary Baldwin College since
1976, has been appointed bookstore
manager at Washington and Lee. Mrs.
Roller succeeds Betty Munger, who is retir-
ing from the position she has held for the
past 16 years.

A native of Wayne, Pa., Mrs. Roller
received her bachelor’s degree from
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College. She
has done graduate work at Catholic Univer-
sity in Washington, D.C.

Mrs. Roller was formerly a teacher of
English and drama at Stuart Hall School,
where she also served as alumnae director.

She joined the staff of the Mary
Baldwin College Bookstore in 1974 and was
named bookstore manager in 1976.

Mrs. Roller has been active in the Staun-
ton Urban Revitalization Effort and in the
Oak Grove Players and the Waynesboro
Players.

Mrs. Roller and her husband, Douglas,
are the parents of three children, Helena,
18, and Katharine and Eric, 11.

SOR

 

 

 

 

Unique gift honors
Robert Bridewell, ’63

A special camping experience was pro-
vided for approximately 75 youngsters from
the Hematology/Oncology Clinic at

 

 

a

Peace: Here and Abroad

Union could not be worked out. This
italicized phrase is most important in
understanding their thinking.

Important for all observers of the Ger-
man scene to note is that political terms
such as “conservatives” or “liberals” have
little meaning in this on-going debate. We in
America only make trouble for ourselves
when we impose such terms upon the Ger-
man. In summary, I would argue that a
clear majority of German students want
Germany to remain a part of NATO, but at
the same time many of these are distrustful
of what they conceive the Reagan Foreign
Policy to be and they believe that both the
President and the Secretary of Defense are

 

 

Helena W. Roller, new bookstore manager

Children’s Medical Center of Dallas this
year. Most of these campers have or have
had a form of childhood cancer. Thanks to
the generosity of a Dallas family, they at-
tended their special camp free of charge.
Camp Eseranza, which literally
translates into “camp hope?’ was held July
31 through August 6 at Camp Sweeny near
Gainesville, Texas. The camp is the gift of
the Bridewell memorial fund. Robert
Bridewell, ’63, died of cancer in May 1982
at the age of 41. His wife, Sandra, their
children and other members of his family
set up the memorial fund at Children’s
Medical Center to be the nucleus of a sum-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

commmanmenamsenenen

unnecessarily confrontational in their com-
ments about the Soviet Union. Few Ger-
mans believe that any kind of nuclear war is
winnable in any meaningful sense. There is
a strong belief that conventional war would
quickly escalate into nuclear war.

With a year to digest the impressions
gathered from my NATO trip, I spent the
following summer at our family cabin in
Montana. (I am a born Montanan.) Our
cabin is on Flathead Lake which is on the
Flathead Indian Reservation. The nearest
town is Polson with a population of several
thousand. We go there to buy food, refit
sailboats and pick up the mail. Over the
years I have gotten to know many residents.

To my surprise, I discovered that the
November 1982 ballot included a referen-
dum calling for a Nuclear Freeze. It was late

 

mer camping program for children with
cancer.

Before his death, Bridewell and his wife
planned the camp to be a positive, enriching
experience for children. Says Sandra,
“Bobby wanted to establish something
special. We decided the camp would be a
wonderful way to honor his memory. Our
family wants the camp to exist for years to
come?’

Bridewell was president of Bridewell
Hotels, Inc. He was involved in the develop-
ment and conceptualization of The Man-
sion on Turtle Creek, and was participating
in the renovation of the Melrose Hotel at

August. The Democratic Party had endors-
ed the Nuclear Freeze Movement. The idea
of the “Marlboro Man” as a nuclear freeze
advocate intrigued me, particularly if plac-
ed against the experience in Germany of a
year before. I decided to do a little field
work.

The town druggist offered to round up
30 to 40 citizens representing a good cross-
section of the non-Indian population for a
beer bust and “informal seminar’ on the
Freeze Movement. There were ranchers,
school teachers, dentists, insurance agents,
shopkeepers, etc. Some were friends, some I
had not met before. They were Republicans
and Democrats, liberals and conservatives.

The Nuclear Freeze Movement is in
some ways akin to the Peace Movement but
it is not duplicative of it. The beer bust

 

 

26

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the time of his death. A native of Tyler,
Texas, Bridewell attended W&L and
graduated from the University of Arizona
with a degree in real estate and finance.

 

 

Faculty activities

e Lamar Cecil Jr., professor of history,
received a research grant from the American
Philosophical Society for study in Germany
during the past summer.

Cecil, who joined the W&L faculty in
1982, spent two months in Germany, where
he was completing research on the first
volume of a two-volume biography of
William II, the last German Kaiser.

Formerly professor of history at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Cecil has written two other books on
subjects of German history—A/bert Ballin:
Business and Politics in Imperial Germany
and The German Diplomatic Service,
1871-1914.

A native of Beaumont, Texas, Cecil
received his B.A. from Rice University and
his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

e A paper written by Washington and
Lee history professor Roger Jeans has been
selected for publication in the journal of the
Southeast Conference of the Association
for Asian Studies.

Entitled “In Search of the Middle Way:
Chang Chun-mai and the Debate over
Democracy Versus Dictatorship in China
during the 1930s;’ Jeans’ paper appears in

 

 

Ruth Neely Young

Ruth Neely Young, widow of former W&L
Alumni Secretary Harry “Cy” Young, died in
a nursing home in Kilmarnock, Va., August 7,
1983. She was 87. She was born in Helena,
Ark., and was educated at Gunston Hall in
Washington.

She married Young in R. E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church in Lexington in 1918. After
Young completed his tour of duty in World
War I, he and his wife returned to Lexington in
1929 when he became coach and alumni
secretary at W&L. In 1939, Young became full-
time alumni secretary.

Mrs. Young operated the Ruth Young
Shop, a gift shop, in Lexington until Young’s
retirement in 1958. That same year he was
elected to the National Football Hall of Fame.
He is considered W&L’s greatest athlete. The
Youngs lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for
several years before they moved to Kilmar-
nock, Va., where Young died in 1977.

 

 

volume V of Annals, a journal distributed
to all members of the organization and to
libraries with Asian collections.

A specialist in East Asian history, Jeans
has been a member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1974.

e Maj. Jerome F. Kelly, assistant pro-
fessor of military science at Washington
and Lee, received the United States
Meritorious Service Medal with first oak
leaf cluster following the commissioning

ceremony for Washington and Lee’s Army
ROTC Unit in June.

The award was presented to Kelly by
retired Maj. Gen. George S. Patton, the
commissioning ceremony speaker.

Kelly’s award was for extraordinary
meritorious service over a four-year period
with the W&L ROTC detachment.

During his four years at W&L, Kelly per-
formed a variety of duties, including those
of instructor, adjutant, and enrollment and
operations officer.

A 1971 graduate of Virginia Military In-
stitute, Kelly left the University in June for
his new assignment at Fort Hood, Texas.

e S. Todd Lowry, professor of
economics and administration at
Washington and Lee, has been elected to the
executive committee of the History of
Economics Society.

Announcement of Lowry’s election was
made in May at a meeting of the organiza-
tion in Charlottesville where Lowry served
as chairman of a session on law, morals,
and religion.

Lowry also served as book review editor
and a member of the advisory board of the
professional journal, History of Political
Economy, which is published at Duke
University.

Lowry has been a member of the faculty
at Washington and Lee since 1959.

e An article by Halford Ryan, associate
professor of public speaking at Washington
and Lee, was published in a recent issue of
Presidential Studies Quarterly, a publica-
tion of the Center for the Study of the

 

 

lasted five hours. Everyone participated,
but not everyone agreed. I opened the
discussion and then acted as umpire. Some
said that they had come West just to get
away from the nuclear threat and had chosen
Montana because it was an unlikely target.
(On this they were badly misinformed. The
great Air Force base of Maelstrom is out-
side of Great Falls, Montana.)

Others argued that a Freeze would play
into the hands of the Russians and would
undercut any chance of getting a mean-
ingful disarmament conference going.
Despite disagreements, a few general themes
did emerge. Nobody believed that a war
with the Soviet Union made any sense. Nor
did anyone believe it was winnable for either
side. Most, even some Republicans, were
critical of the bellicose language of Presi-

dent Reagan and Secretary Weinberger. All
supported the principle of NATO. Most
supported the Nuclear Freeze.

Based upon what I had heard during
this informal session, I wrote to a senior of-
ficial in the Pentagon and to a senior
military officer abroad, suggesting to both
that a Nuclear Feeze would carry in Mon-
tana in the November election. Both wrote
back saying they doubted it. The Freeze car-
red on the November ballot by 55 percent. It
also carried in eight of the nine states on
which it was on the ballot. And, of course,
it later carried in the House of
Representatives.

Now, a personal footnote or after-
thought. I am personally opposed to the
Peace Movement in Germany and to the
Nuclear Freeze Movement in this country. I

prefer to work for arms control. lama
liberal who sides with conservatives on this
issue. 1am a Democrat who supports Presi-
dent Reagan’s ‘‘Zero Option Plan?’ Finally,
I am a Catholic who disagrees with and
finds himself at odds with some aspects of
the Catholic Bishops’ Pastoral Letter on the
Nuclear Freeze Movement. Professors are
obviously as unpredictable as German
university students or Montana ranchers.

Professor Colvin is a graduate of Yale
University and the University of
Heidelberg, Germany. In World War ITI he
fought against the Germans in Italy and in
France. His NATO report was submitted to
NATO Headquarters and to the Secretary
of the Army. It has been accepted for
editorial review by the Army War College.

 

 

ai

&& Gazette

Presidency in New York City.

The article is entitled “President Lyn-
don Johnson’s Voting Rights Address: Ad-
justing the Need to the Audience and the
Audience to the Need?’

Ryan’s essay examines Johnson’s 1965
speech before a Joint Session of Congress
on the Voting Rights Act.

Ryan conducted research for the essay in
the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library in
Austin, Texas, on a research grant from the
Maurice L. Mednick Fund.

The Mednick Fund is administered by
the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges, a joint fund-raising consortium of
14 four-year private colleges in the state, in-
cluding W&L.

Ryan has previously published an article
on President Harry S Truman’s firing of
General Douglas MacArthur in the
Presidential Studies Quarterly.

He has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1970. He
is a graduate of Wabash College with a
master’s degree and a Ph.D. from the
University of Illinois.

e Sarah K. Wiant, law librarian and
assistant professor of law at Washington
and Lee, served as panelist for a session on
copyright laws at the 76th annual meeting
of the American Association of Law
Libraries in Houston, Texas, in June.

Wiant was part of the panel that
discussed ‘‘Copyright Law for Librarians,
Traditional Replication and New
Technologies?’

Named to the board of directors of the
3,000-member American Association of
Law Libraries in 1981, Wiant is also a
member of that organization’s copyright
committee.

A graduate of Western State College in
Gunnison, Colo., Wiant received her ad-
vanced library degree from North Texas
State and her law degree from Washington
and Lee. She was named head librarian in
the School of Law in 1978.

¢ Louis W. Hodges, director of
Washington and Lee’s program in applied
ethics for pre-professional undergraduates,
conducted workshops in San Francisco and
Chicago during August for news directors
from television stations affiliated with the
American Broadcasting Company.

The workshops are sponsored by the
ABC News Advisory Service and are
presented annually. The San Francisco
meeting was attended by 48 news directors
while the Chicago meeting was attended by
87 news directors.

28

 

At both workshops, Hodges conducted
a session on ethics and the television
newsroom with special focus on the issues
of privacy.

A professor of religion at W&L, Hodges
joined the University faculty in 1960.

¢ William J. Watt, dean of the College,
presided over the 38th annual National
Dean’s Conference at Stillwater, Okla., in
July.

The four-day meeting was attended by
75 college and university deans from
throughout the country. Its theme was “The
Qualities of Academic Leadership”’

Watt, who is a former president of the
Conference of Academic Deans of the
Southern States, has served as dean of the
College, W&L’s arts and sciences division,
since 1971.

He announced earlier this year his inten-
tions of resigning from his deanship follow-
ing the 1983-84 academic year and plans to
return to full-time teaching as professor of
chemistry.

 

 

Mollenhoff’s poem
part of Reagan speech

President Ronald Reagan concluded his
speech to the 87th annual national conven-
tion of the PTA in June by quoting a poet
named Clark Mollenhoff.

Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist who is now professor of jour-
nalism at Washington and Lee University,
was given full credit in Reagan’s speech as
author of the poem entitled ‘““Teacher:’

Reagan’s speech writers had contacted
Mollenhoff a week earlier to ask permission
to use the poem and to consult on several
minor changes.

‘“‘Naturally I was quite honored that the
president would want to use the poem,’ said
Mollenhoff, who is spending this summer
as a Capitol Hill correspondent for the
Washington 7imes.

Mollenhoff was at the White House on
the day of the speech and listened to the
president’s talk over a special White House
radio hookup from Albuquerque.

“It was very pleasing to hear the presi-
dent reading the words that I had written;’
Mollenhoff said.

The poem, ‘Teacher,’ with the revisions
used in the Reagan speech reads as follows:

You are the moulders of their dreams—
Heros who build or crush their young
beliefs in right or wrong.
You are the spark that sets afire a poet’s hand,
Or lights the flame in some great singer’s
song.

You are the idols of young—the very young.
You are their models, by profession set apart.
You are the guardians of a million dreams.
Your every smile or frown can heal or

pierce a heart.

Yours are one hundred lives—one thousand
lives.

Yours is the pride of loving them, the
sorrow too.

Your patient work, your touch, make you the
source of hope

That fills their souls with dreams, and
makes those dreams come true.

 

 

Jarrett heads
history department

H. Marshall Jarrett, professor of history
at Washington and Lee, has been named
head of the department of history at the
University.

Jarrett succeeds William A. Jenks, who
retired from the W&L faculty this month.
Jenks had served as head of the department
of history since 1970.

Jarrett joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1963 after previously serving as a
teaching assistant at Duke University and as
an assistant professor at Westminster Col-
lege in Maryland.

A native of Oklahoma, Jarrett’s primary
research interests are the French En-
cyclopedia and the philosophies of 18th
century France.

Jarrett received one of the first National
Endowment for the Humanities Fellowships

Professor H. Marshall Jarrett

to conduct research in Europe in 1968.

He is a graduate of Washington and Lee
and received both his master’s degree and
Ph.D. from Duke University.

Jarrett is a member of the Society for
French Historical Studies, the Society for
18th Century Studies, and the American
Historical Society.

 

 

 

Rosenblum named Lewis
scholar-in-residence

Victor G. Rosenblum, professor of law
at Northwestern University, has been named
scholar-in-residence in the Frances Lewis
Law Center of the Washington and Lee
School of Law.

Rosenblum will spend the fall semester
in residence in the W&L law school where
he will conduct research on regulatory
reform.

A native of New York City, Rosenblum
has been teaching at Northwestern since
1958. He was president of Reed College in
Portland, Ore., from 1968 to 1970 and serv-
ed as associate counsel for the U.S. House
of Representatives’ subcommittee on
legislative and executive reorganization.

He has published several books on con-
stitutional and public law, including the
1955 volume entitled Law as a Political In-
strument. He is co-author of The Power to
Govern (1957), Cases on Constitutional
Law: Political Roles of the Supreme Court
(1973), and The Making of a Public Profes-
sion (1981).

Rosenblum received both his bachelor’s
degree and his law degree from Columbia

 

Professor Victor G. Rosenblum

University and his Ph.D. in political science
from the University of California at
Berkeley where he taught from 1949 to 1956.
He has been awarded honorary degrees
from Hebrew Union College and Siena
Heights College.

A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he has
served as chairman of the administrative law
section of the American Bar Association in
(1977-78) and as president of the Law and
Society Association (1970-72). He is cur-
rently vice president of the American
Judicature Society and a consultant to the
Administrative Conference of the United
States.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was
established in the W&L School of Law in
1978 to stimulate law reform and to focus

 

 

Lefty Newell

James Lloyd (Lefty) Newell of Lexington,
who was an equipment manager for
Washington and Lee’s athletic department for
17 years, died June 26 at his home. He was 60.

Newell was born Dec. 30, 1922, in
Rockbridge County, the son of Edith Clark
Newell of Lexington and the late James
Samuel Newell. He was a member of Oxford
Presbyterian Church and a veteran of World
War II.

Newell is survived by two brothers, Wayne
Lee Newell and Malcolm C. Newell of Lex-
ington; four sisters, Mrs. Charles Hockman
and Miss Betty Ann Newell of Lexington, Mrs.
Roy Carter of Roanoke and Mrs. Maurin
Strange of Danville.

 

 

 

John H. DeCourcy

on developing knowledge “‘at the frontiers
of law:’

Rosenblum is the fifth scholar-in-
residence in the law center, which also has
had judges and attorneys in residence. In
addition, the center supports research of
W&L law faculty members and organizes
colloquia on current legal subjects.

 

 

DeCourcy appointed
financial aid director

John H. DeCourcy has been appointed
director of student financial aid at
Washington and Lee. His appointment was
announced in July by President John D.
Wilson.

DeCourcy succeeds Michael D. Bartini,
who left in April to join the College Board
in Philadelphia.

A native of Portsmouth, N.H., De-
Courcy comes to Washington and Lee from
Miami Dade Community College in Miami,
Fla., where he served from 1980 to 1983 as
director of financial aid for the north cam-
pus. He previously worked in financial aid
at Florida Memorial College.

DeCourcy received a bachelor of science
in business administration degree from
Georgetown University and holds a master’s
degree from the University of New Hamp-
shire. In 1980, he was the winner of the
Outstanding Administrator Award at
Miami Dade Community College.

He is a member of the Florida Associa-
tion of Financial Aid Administrators and
the Southern Association of Financial Aid

29

 

ee Gazette

Administrators.

DeCourcy and his wife, Mary, are the
parents of two children, Jack, 12, and
Delia, 8.

 

 

Simpson named
associate dean

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant
dean of the College at Washington and Lee
has been promoted to associate dean.

Simpson, who was named assistant dean
in 1981, is also associate professor of art at
W&L and teaches courses in art history in
addition to her administrative duties in the
College, W&L’s arts and sciences division.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1973, Simpson received her
bachelor’s degree in art from Gettysburg
College, her master’s degree in art history
from the University of Missouri, and her
Ph.D. in art history from the University of
Delaware.

She has written and lectured extensively
on the architectural history of Lexington
and Rockbridge County and is the co-
author with Royster Lyle of Lexington of an
award-winning volume entitled The Ar-
chitecture of Historic Lexington.

 

 

Kirgis publishes
new volume

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., new dean of the
Washington and Lee School of Law, is the
author of an important new study on inter-
national law published in June by the
University Press of Virginia.

Entitled Prior Consultation in Interna-
tional Law: A Study of State Practice, the
book is the product of almost 10 years of
research, writing, and editing.

Kirgis’ study identifies and analyzes the
circumstances under which national govern-
ments are obligated to consult other govern-
ments before they undertake or authorize
measures that, while not overtly hostile
toward the other country, might never-
theless adversely affect that other country.

Areas and activities covered by the book
include measures affecting the flow or
purity of.international rivers; measures that
could pollute international air basins or
partially enclosed seas; measures affecting
the high seas or outer space; acts that could
adversely affect other members or alliances

30

 

Professor Pamela Simpson

or international organizations such as
NATO, the European Economic Com-
munity, or the United Nations; new barriers
to international trade or foreign investment;
and measures affecting the balance of
payments.

Kirgis concludes that there is no over-
all duty to consult every time a proposed
measure might have a significant, adverse
effect on interests outside the acting nation.
He does, however, identify specific situa-
tions in which state practice or treaties re-
quire prior consultation. In addition, the
final chapter identifies recurring cir-
cumstances that cut across subject areas
and that either stimulate expectations that
there will be consultation or stifle any such
expectations.

While Kirgis’ findings will be useful for
scholars and students, the new volume
should also help government decision-
makers ascertain whether they should con-

sult other nations before acting in a given
case.

A specialist in international law, Kirgis
took over as dean of the W&L law school in
July, succeeding Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. in
that position. Since 1978 Kirgis has served
as director of W&L’s Frances Lewis Law
Center. Prior to that, he was a professor of
law at UCLA.

This is Kirgis’ second book. The first,
published in 1977, is entitled International
Organizations in Their Legal Setting.

 

 

Murphy promoted
associate dean

Danny N. Murphy, assistant dean of
students for fraternity affairs at Washington
and Lee, has been promoted to associate
dean of students for fraternity affairs at the
University.

In addition to his duties with the dean
of students’ office, Murphy also serves as
assistant director of admissions and foreign
student advisor at Washington and Lee.

A 1973 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Murphy received his master’s degree from
the University of Virginia.

He served from 1973 to 1975 as assistant
admissions director at W&L and worked in
private industry from 1975 to 1977 when he
rejoined the University to work primarily in
the area of fraternity affairs.

Murphy is a member of the Virginia
Association of Student Personnel Ad-
ministrators and the National Association
of Fraternity Advisors.

 

 

Lumpi, 1968-83

The campus scene will not be quite the
same without Lumpi, and the School of
Commerce will be a quieter place now that
his bugling has been stilled. He did bugle.
He did not “‘howl}’ as some of his critics
would have it. He was, after all, a beagle.
For most of his 15 years Lumpi went daily
to the campus, following his masters, Pro-
fessors Colvin and Machado, sleeping at
the foot of the lectern and setting a bad ex-
ample for students not in tune with early
morning classes. He was known to hun-
dreds of students and to everybody in Lex-
ington. Lumpi never got a Washington and
Lee degree nor, in fact, did he ever achieve

   

sophomore status, but, in his way, he was
a Washington and Lee dog and he was
loyal! Now he is gone to the land of “‘big-
ger and better rabbits?? One wishes him
good hunting.

 

 

Dennis Daly, head lacrosse coach at
Amherst College for the past five seasons,
was selected in August to direct Washington
and Lee’s lacrosse program.

The 33-year-old Daly succeeds Jack Em-
mer, who resigned in July to become head
lacrosse coach and assistant athletic direc-
tor at the United States Military Academy.

‘““We are extremely pleased that Dennis
will take over the lacrosse program at
W&L;’ Athletic Director Bill McHenry said
in announcing Daly’s appointment. ‘‘We are
confident that he will keep the lacrosse pro-
gram here both competitive and respected.

“Dennis’ background at two quality
Division III institutions will enable him to
handle well the academic and athletic
challenges at Washington and Lee?’ (While
W&L's entire athletic program operates in
the NCAA’s non-subsidized Division III,
the Generals’ lacrosse team competes in
Division I.)

An Amherst graduate, Daly began his
head coaching career at Middlebury College
in Vermont. In three years at Middlebury,
Daly’s teams compiled a 42-5 record and
won the East Coast Athletic Conference
tournament crown each season.

Daly returned to his alma mater in 1978
and proceeded to rebuild a lacrosse program
that had suffered through seven consecutive
losing seasons. Under his guidance, the
Lord Jeffs improved each year and won the
coveted “‘Little Three’ lacrosse champion-
ship over Williams and Wesleyan in 1982
and again in 1983 when Amherst compiled
its first winning record (6-4) in 12 seasons.
In five seasons at Amherst, Daly’s record
was 18-31.

At Amherst, Daly also directed the var-
sity ice hockey team, compiling a 52-56
mark and guiding the Lord Jeffs’ to two of
their four best records ever. He served as of-
fensive line coach for the Amherst football
team and was an assistant professor in the
physical education department.

“This is an opportunity to coach an ex-
cellent Division I lacrosse team and to work
with an excellent academic institution?’ said
Daly. “I anticipate working with students
who show the same academic interests,
desires, and pursuits as those at Amherst
and Middlebury but students who show bet-
ter athletic skills.

‘““My Division III experience has given
me an appreciation for the correct role of
athletics in relation to academics. That is, a
commitment to athletic excellence without
the overemphasis that might cause excesses
that have appeared lately at many colleges.
W&L has this commitment?’

A native of Hartford, Conn., Daly
received his bachelor’s degree in English
from Amherst and received a master’s
degree in sports administration from the

Dennis Daly
Is Named
New Lacrosse
Coach

 

He:

Jack Emmer goes to West Point.

University of Massachusetts. He is presi-
dent of the New England Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association and belongs to the
U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association
and the U.S. Lacrosse Coaches’ Associa-
tion. He was a North squad assistant coach
at the USILA’s 1978 North-South All-Star
Game.

Daly becomes the 11th lacrosse coach at
Washington and Lee since the University
began competing in the sport in 1947.

Emmer had been the Generals’ lacrosse
coach for 11 seasons, compiling a 108-47
record and taking the team to seven NCAA
Division I championship tournament ap-
pearances (1973 through 1978 and 1980). He
received the U.S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse
Association’s college-division ‘‘Coach-of-
the-Year”’ citation in 1973 and the organiza-
tion’s university-division coaching award
the following season.

 

i,

 

31

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i ii ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

>

 

 

for 1982-83.

                     

 

   

 

University’s day

This marks the fourt
four years that the
has exceeded $1 million.

 

 

 

In addition to the record total, gifts
through the W&L Annual Fund established
all-time highs in several other categories, ac-
cording to Carter V. McNeese, associate
director of development and coordinator of

 

 

   

$1, 37 5, 000i is uly a tribute to the |
port of our alumni. and friends? s) said :

 

ating its Annual Fund gifts,
‘Washington and Lee counts only money ac-
June 30 and does not in-

 

 
    
   

Charles Mason photo
William F. Ford, ’61L, of Atlanta, Ga.,
was the chairman of the 1982-83 Annual
| Fund. So |

  
 

f contributions was
gifts of $100 or

    

 

 

 

 

 

RENT PARENTS—S. R. Singer, Chairman

   

 

   

 

    

So Area Area Chairman . i i Pe . Dollars Part.
Academic Alumni 82-83 | I HLA. Baumgaertner 47 $5,550 24.0
81-82 II A.N. Farley - 34 3,500 24.1
) / gn ga Il WW. Knobloch - 7 31 2,190 26.1 |
Law Alumni —_ 82-83 _— 7 | 190, |
” Le IV. J.C.Kendrick ==. 1,880 15.2
ane VJc.Adams 17. ~~ 2,035 14.5
al aki ate VI oSL.Fay i 2 1945112
| ae Vil J.D.LeBlanc 14 1,860 = 14.0
Past Parents 82-83 VIIl R.P.Davidson § 40 — 9,798 29.0 ]
- (81-82 61,788 IX _R.S.Cartmill | 23 3,945 24.5
Friends 82-8347 17,160 og. |
are 36 39964 TOTAL 7 250 $32,703 = 20.1
TOTALS == 82-83. «6,446— $1,405,785 PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman OO |
81-82 6,437 $1,294,788 W. M. Kempe 169 55,651 24.70

 

           

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1982-83

ACADEMIC CLASSES—Peter A. Agelasto III, Chairman

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
Group I-A & II-A—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman

All Other W. C. Washburn 27 $12,162
ISA R. N. Latture* 9 5,300
16A E. B. Shultz* 3 998
17A W. J. Cox* 10 4,091
18A A. Beall* 9 6,640
21A S. L. Raines* 6 1,260
23A F. B. Hurt* 18 3,650
24A No Agent 21 7,804
25A E. T. Andrews* 19 8,020
26A T. T. Moore 30 5,778
27A No Agent 36 6,510
28A No Agent 35 14,916
29A T. G. Gibson 40 6,195
TOTAL 263 $83,324
GROUP III-A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman

30A V. J. Barnett 69 $19,824
31A H. M. Minniece* 60 24,158
32A C. E. Long 55 7,990
33A C. J. Longacre 59 18,470
34A S. Mosovich 84 14,276
35A L. P. Gassman 54 7,558
36A G. W. Harrison 61 15,575
37A R. K. Stuart* 74 17,145
38A J. H. Reid 74 33,784
39A V. F. Radcliffe 74 19,430
TOTAL 664 $178,210
GROUP IV-A—E. R. Marable, Vice Chairman

40A R. V. Hersey 80 $81,793
4IA A. T. Fleishman 69 17,256
42A S. Isenberg 91 21,008
43A A. D. Darby* 101 25,565
44A G. T. Wood 79 16,981
45A E. D. Finney 50 18,282
46A E. S. Willis 54 11,342
47A W. G. Merrin Zz 4,381
48A W. W. Burton* 41 12,120
49A M. W. Saurs 84 17,058
TOTAL 676 $225,786
GROUP V-A—C. D. Hurt Jr., Vice Chairman

50A W. N. Clements* 110 $28,186
S51A J. B. McCutcheon* 110 44,776
52A W. D. McGrew 101 19,495
53A L. A. Putney* 83 24,940
S4A F. A. Parsons 55 17,251
5SA J. H. Marion 68 23,300
56A J. R. O’Connell 99 15,222
STA H. M. Plaisted 83 17,176
58A V. W. Holleman 87 43,007
S5S9A T. B. Bryant 90 17,703
TOTAL 886 $251,056
GROUP VI-A—J. W. Jennings, Vice Chairman*

60A M. Lassman* 96 $29,866
61A W. M. Bowen* 81 20,363
62A W. L. Roberts* 114 23,724
63A C. T. McCord* 107 19,566
64A C. H. Sheild* 117 20,013
65A J. W. Rutter 102 16,637
66A J. D. Humphries* 91 34,614
67A W. H. Jeffress* 115 14,107
68A C. H. Capito 112 17,540
69A M. L. Halford* 139 22,562
TOTAL* 1,074 $218,992
GROUP VII-A—G. A. Frierson III, Vice Chairman

70A J. A. Meriwether* 108 $22,070
T1A J. B. Tompkins* 131 18,217
72A S. W. Robinson 104 16,880
713A G. A. Frierson 100 11,920
T4A W. P. Wallace 107 11,926
T5A R. A. Keatley* 124 28,976
716A C. T. Jackson 111 10,412

%
Part.

27.6
69.2
42.9

50.0
66.7
43.9
36.2
2D
45.5

46.7
42.1
40.6

67.6
48.4
45.1
47.6
64.1
43.5
43.9
49.0
50.7
36.8
48.7

51.6
35.9
49.5
53.4
45.9
37.6
43.2
40.9
50.0
44.9
45.5

36.5
47.8
45.3
38.1
25.7
34.3
42.5
39.5
36.7
42.1
38.9

40.3
37.2
43.5
39.1
40.9
38.5
29.6
40.5

44.1
39.2

31.8
42.0
31.4
27.4
29.7
36.5
29.6

 

T7IA J. L. Carrere 119 7,820
78A J. L. Bruch 98 6,094
T9A C. S. Jones 92 6,268
80A C. Cornett 97 5,655
81A C. Gammon* 119 6,810
82A S. B. Puryear 97 3,605
TOTAL 1,407 $156,653

LAW CLASSES—Milton T. Herndon, Chairman

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
GROUP 1-L—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman

All Other 20 $ 6,093
23L W. W. Ogden* 3 Zane
26L R. O. Bentley 4 550
29L S. C. Strite 3 350
TOTAL 30 $ 9,318
GROUP II-L—E. L. Smith, Vice Chairman*

30L L. H. Davis 6 $ 1,090
31L M. M. Weinberg* 9 28,010
32L M. P. Burks 10 4,988
33L F. R. Bigham* 14 2,125
34L S. W. Wise 7 3,200
35L E. M. Nuckols* 8 3,875
36L W. L. Martin 4 400
37L J. Arnold 8 2,275
38L T. H. Clarke 6 3,235
39L T. A. Williams 20 2,330
40L H. R. Stephenson 13 2,445
41L C. M. Landrum 12 3,215
42L C. L. Walters* 11 1,625
TOTAL* 128 $58,813
GROUP III-L—J. B. Porterfield, Vice Chairman

48L C. R. Allen* 36 $ 7,365
49L J. R. Larrick 29 3,456
50L W. J. Ledbetter 25 4,955
51L J. E. Greer 34 4,555
52L J. C. Reel 19 5,005
53L R. L. Banse 11 1,155
54L D. R. Klenk 12 1,660
55L R. W. Hudgins 11 1,540
56L R. S. Harp 8 2,060
57L O. P. Pollard 17 9,830
58L R. E. Stroud* 12 4,210
59L R. H. Horn* 11 3,025
TOTAL 225 $48,816
GROUP IV-L—R. K. Morton, Vice Chairman

60L J. L. Lyle 14 $ 1,962
61L R. E. Shepherd* 14 9,325
62L R. R. Robrecht 15 1,755
63L L. Sargeant 15 1,372
64L T. W. Budd* 26 2,800
65L L. G. Griffiths 19 975
66L G. W. Wooten 17 2,136
67L J. D. Logan* 20 3,890
68L M. L. Lowry 26 3,672
69L D. D. Redmond 29 2,535
TOTAL 195 $30,422
GROUP VI-L—J. D. Kline, Vice Chairman*

70L D. W. Thornton 21 $ 2,980
71L H. W. Walker 15 1,438
Tas J. A. Philpott* 22 3,825
73L M. H. Squires 52 4,889
74L L. H. Framme 19 2,306
75L C. J. Habenicht ai 1,762
76L Hal & Nan Clarke* 46 8,785
77L D. M. Thomas 34 1,750
78L D. Swope 27 2,248
79L J. F. Murphy* 46 3,413
80L J. K. Boyden 29 1,460
81L D. G. Weaver* 55 2,113
82L R. M. Couch 44 1,860
TOTAL* 429 $38,829

*Met or exceeded goal

%
Part.

32.8
60.0
80.0
25.0
36.1

66.7
64.3
58.8
87.5
46.7
61.5
44.4
47.1
42.9
66.7
68.4
52.2
35.6
56.4

50.7
45.3
55.6

38.0
33.3
42.9
31.4
38.1
53.1
44.4
33.3
43.9

36.8
35.9
39.5
41.7

40.4
34.0
36.4
35.6
40.3
39.2

42.9
26.3
31.0
Ps
21.6
27.2
57.5
43.6
36.0
36.5
same
43.7

37.3

33

New Alumni Board Members

 

 

C. DuBose Ausley, 59 a | Dr. G. Edward Calvert, ’44 _ Henry Nottberg ITI, 71

Ausley, McMullen, McGehee Carothers Suite 9, Medical Center U.S. Engineering Co.
& Proctor Tate Springs Road 3433 Roanoke Road
Attorneys at Law Lynchburg, Va. 24501 Kansas City, Mo. 64111

P.O. Box 391

Tallahassee, Fla. 32302

 

Dr. John W. Poynor, 62 Stanley A. Walton Ill, 62, ’65L University Athletic Committeeman

1029 S. 22nd Street Winston & Strawn William P. Wallace Jr., ’74, ’77L
Birmingham, Ala. 35205 Attorneys at Law Woods, Rogers, Muse, Walker & Thornton
Room 5000, One First National Plaza Attorneys at Law
Chicago, Ill. 60603 P.O. Box 720

Roanoke, Va. 24004

These are the Alumni Board of Directors members elected at the May 1983 general meeting of the Alumni Association.

34

 

Chapter News

 

*

NEW ORLEANS—W&L softball victors (first row) Ken Carter, ’71; Rick
Bates, ’76; Julian Good, ’78; George Irvine, 81; Normal Fagge, ’74; Bob
Bates, ’78; (second row) Parke Ellis, 81; John Sarpy, ’72; Mike
Christovich, ’76; Del Agnew, ’82; John Carrere, 69; John Embree, ’75.

 

 

 

cluded Secretary Douglas H. Madison, ’72; Dr. Wilson; President T. Harry
Wall IV, ’75; Vice President E. Neal Cory II, ’77 (standing) and Treasurer
Terry W. Tyler, ’72.

JACKSONVILLE. Area alumni met for cocktails on July 7 at
the Florida Yacht Club. Chapter President Jerry Weedon, ’70,
directed a short business meeting during which Bill Gatlin, ’71,
was elected vice president and Sidney Simmons, ’80, was chosen
treasurer. Hal Catlin, ’71, gave a report on alumni admissions
work in the area. Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68,
spoke about the new administration on campus, the fine start
which has been made and the problems which exist in securing the
long-range goals of the University.

NEW ORLEANS. On July 10, W&L alumni in New Orleans
hosted a joint picnic in City Park with their counterparts from the
University of the South. The highlight of the day was a challenge
softball game in which the Generals prevailed 11-10 in an eleven-
inning contest. Chapter President Rick Bates, ’76, was in charge
of all arrangements for the victorious Generals.

LOUISVILLE. More than 100 alumni, spouses and guests
gathered on July 14 at the Pendennis Club to welcome President
John D. Wilson with a reception and dinner. T. Harry Wall IV,
°75, chapter president, presided over the event. Special guests

 

 

LOUISVILLE—AII smiles at reception at the Pendennis Club are Norman
P ller, °37; President John Wilson: William F: Chandler, ’29, 31L; George
E. Burks, ’27; Ernest B. Walker Jr., ’38.

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—The Botanical Gardens at Cheek wood provide a
lush reception backdrop in Nashville for Richard F; Cummins, ’59; Presi-
dent Wilson, George B. Stadler, ’81; and Clay T. Jackson, ’76.

included four entering freshmen from the Louisville area and their
parents, several high school guidance counselors, retired Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, new Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms,
and Development Associate Milburn Noell. Chapter officers E.
Neal Cory II, ’77, Kennedy Simpson, ’75, and Douglas H.
Madison and Terry W. Tyler, ’72, assisted with the dinner ar-
rangements. Following dinner, President Wilson spoke about the
history of the University and its future promise.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. The Tennessee Botanical Gardens and
Fine Arts Center at Cheekwood provided the setting for President
John D. Wilson’s first chapter visit to Nashville on July 15.
Wilson, retired Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn and new Alumni
Secretary Dick Sessoms were among the 80 guests at a reception
and dinner arranged by Clay T. Jackson, ’76, George B. Stadler,
°81, and their respective wives, Cathy and Julie. Chapter President
Richard F. Cummins, ’59, recognized several current students and
incoming freshmen and their parents, local preparatory school
guests and various chapter members, including Robert G.
McCullough, ’51L, Law Association Council member. James F.
Gallivan, ’51, former president of the Alumni Association,

35

Chapter News

 

   

SAN DIEGO—Longball hitters gathered under the W&L banner include
John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L; Frederick A. Meiser Jr., ’68; Dr. Max L.
Elliot, 60; and Dr. Brad Bethel, ’76.

PIEDMONT—Pig Roast chef John Cocklereece, ’76, exhibits outstanding
chapter presidential leadership qualities while his date, Gina Cundiff, and
University Trustee, Royce Hough, ’59, smile approvingly.

introduced Dr. Wilson, who spoke about W&L’s key problems and
opportunities. Also present at the occasion were Development
Associate Milburn Noell and his wife, Woody, from Memphis.

DENVER. A board of alumni met for dinner on July 21 at The
Wellshire Inn with Buddy Atkins, 68, assistant alumni secretary.
The group was appointed to plan and formulate a W&L alumni
chapter in the area. At the suggestion of Herbert M. Weed, ’42,
the group prevailed upon Charles W. Pride, ’72, to serve as presi-
dent of the new chapter as well as area alumni admissions
representative. Robert W. Moorhead III, ’78, ’81L, was elected
vice president and Morton P. Iler, 57, secretary-treasurer. Plans
were discussed for a number of different chapter events in the
future.

SAN DIEGO. Sporting the W&L banner and the Confederate
Stars and Bars, nearly 50 supporters assembled at the La Jolla
Beach and Tennis Club on July 22 to welcome Dick Sessoms, new
director of alumni programs. It was the chapter’s third annual
Sunset Happy Hour. Reception arrangements were made by Dr.
Max L. Elliott, ’60; his wife, Melissa; Chapter President John D.
Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L; and his wife, Cindy. Sessoms, on a West

36

 

SAN DIEGO—Among those at the La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club were
Chapter President John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, and his wife, Cindy.

 

64; Gina Cundiff; John Cocklereece, ’76; Chriss Gammon, ’81; Cary
Winebrenner; Ruth Knight; Steve Strawsburg, ’76; Kim Lambe; Henry
Roemer, ’78; and Richard Barron, ’79.

Coast visit to alumni chapter leaders in San Francisco, Los
Angeles and Orange County, was assisted in San Diego by Stuart
D. Adams, ’85.

PIEDMONT. Greensboro and Winston-Salem alumni, number-
ing 40 strong, celebrated their first annual summer pig roast on
August 6. The event was staged at Tanglewood, the recreational
facility developed on the 1150-acre W. N. Reynolds estate 10 miles
west of Winston-Salem. Prime movers and chief picnic chefs John
A. Cocklereece Jr., °76, chapter president, and classmate Steve
Strawsburg kept the crowd coming back for more while Chris
Gammon, ’81, supplied lively taped music, and Bo Brookby, ’72,
and Greg Porter, ’69, among others, attempted to retire the
horseshoes trophy. A campus news report was included in
informal remarks by Dick Sessoms, new director of alumni pro-
grams. Among those attending were University Trustee Royce
Hough, 59; Bill Latture, ’49, alumni association board member,
and a fine representation of the W&L family from all generations.

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD COUNTY. The Indian Harbor
Yacht Club was the setting for an August 11 reception in honor of
entering freshmen and their parents and first-year law students.

 

 

cS

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD—Among the alumni welcoming first-year
students were Chapter President Chris Burnham, ’80; Robert Campbell, ’80;
Mrs. Frank Glaser; and, Frank Glaser, ’60.

i

WASHINGTON—Happy that the sun is shining, Chapter President Tom
Howard, 68, makes a last minute check of the arrangements before the
guests arrive.

New Chapter President Chris Burnham, ’80, welcomed the guests
and outlined the chapter’s revitalized plans for admissions
recruiting and career placement/counseling assistance during the
coming year. Dick Sessoms, the new director of alumni programs,
also spoke briefly as did Peter K. Braden, ’86, who provided the
entering students with some insights on what to expect on their
WEL arrival.

COLUMBIA. On Saturday, August 20, the Palmetto Chapter
took on an all-star softball team composed of rival alumni from
Davidson, Sewanee and Virginia. The Generals claimed the South
Carolina state championship by a score of 22 to 5. Following the
game the victorious Generals celebrated at a family-style picnic
supper in honor of the three freshmen enrolling this year from the
area.

WASHINGTON. After two consecutive years of rain, a
gorgeous evening on August 16 greeted the annual summer recep-
tion of the Washington Chapter. The reception was held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Randolph D. Rouse, ’39, in Arlington.
Alumni and guests were on hand to welcome 23 freshmen and 14
first-year law students and their parents to the Washington and

  

 

 

 

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD—Dick Sessoms, director of alumni programs,
and seniors Paul Kuveke and Peter Muller helped welcome freshmen and first-
year law students at the chapter’s outstanding reception.

 

WASHINGTON—A large group of alumni and friends enjoy the
hospitality of Randy Rouse, ’39, beside the pool at his home in Arlington.

Lee family. It was the largest contingent of new students from the
area in many years. Tom Howard, ’69, chapter president, was on
hand to greet everyone. A buffet was served by Chapter Vice Presi-
dent Mike Jarboe, ’75, and his staff from the Mayflower Hotel.
Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary answered last
minute questions about the University and student life.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. President John D. Wilson and Dick
Sessoms, new director of alumni programs, headed the special
guest list at the chapter’s annual dinner meeting in Hagerstown,
Md., on August 24. More than 90 persons, the group’s largest
turnout in recent history, responded with a standing ovation to
Wilson’s thoughts about the University’s past and future. Out-
going Chapter President James H. Clapp, ’73, presided and
introduced four returning students, welcomed three incoming
freshmen and their parents, and noted the attendance of two
members of the Alumni Board, Bill Clements, ’50, of Baltimore,
and Charlie Beall, ’56, of Martinsburg, W. Va. Officers elected for
next year include Roger J. Perry, ’52, ’54L, of Charles Town,

W. Va., president; William M. Schildt, ’64, ’68L, of Hagerstown,
vice president; J. Donald Eachles, ’39, of Harper’s Ferry,

W. Va., secretary-treasurer.

37

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
   

niture and. are » welcome ve gifts for all occasions —Christmas,
ies, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair —
‘in memory of John Graham, 14.

 

 

 

 

 

 

management associations, including trustee and
treasurer of the Education Institute of the American
Hotel and Motel Association from 1958 to 1973 and
president from 1967 to 1969. His civic and com-

 
 

 

 
 
 
  
 

 

7

time from the i insurance

 

    

 

 

 

 

his community leadership, and his service as a state
commissioner. He also served a term as president of
the association.

HAROLD M. WESTON was named by President
Reagan earlier this year to a three-man fact-finding
board established to look into labor disputes in the
railroad industry affecting the national interest. He
had previously been appointed to similar boards by
President Eisenhower and President Ford. Weston
is acounselor for the New York law firm of Decker,
Hubbard & Welden.

1932

LEwis L. TIGNoR has retired as investment ad-
ministrator for the state of Maryland and is currently
residing in Virginia Beach, Va.

1936

The seventh novel by L. ELLiorr CHAZE, Goodbye
Goliath, was recently published by Charles
Scribner’s Sons. Chaze lives in Hattiesburg, Miss.
where he retired several years ago as city editor of the
Hattiesburg American. This concluded a 43-year
career in journalism which included stints as a news
editor in the New Orleans and Denver bureaus of the
Associated Press.

1937

HENRY M. DRAKE has retired as agency manager for
Farm Bureau Insurance. Heis still active as a general
insurance agent and real estate broker in Port Gib-
son, Miss.

1938

CHARLES A. SISSON retired Jan. 1, 1983, as traffic
manager for Springs Industries, Inc., after 35 years
of service. He lives in Lancaster, S.C.

1939

A. WARD ARCHER, chairman of the Memphis adver-
tising and public relations firm by the same name,
recently announced the firm’s acquisition of the
Convention and Visitors Bureau of Memphis ac-
count and three other major new clients.

Dr. MARTIN C. CASSETTE, though retired from
private practice, continues as clinical professor of
obstetrics and gynecology at the College of
Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. He is alsoa
consultant on the staff of Vineland State School in
Vineland, N.J.

Dr. FRANCIS PENDLETON GAINES JR., a University of
Arizona dean who holds the record for the longest
service in the history of the institution, will retire in
December 1983. Gaines, dean of administration, has
been at Arizona since 1959 when he served as head
of the division of continuing education and summer
session. In 1973 Gaines became dean of administra-
tion. His father, Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, was

  

 

F- P. Gaines Jr., ’39 A. H. McCutcheon,
president of W&L from 1930 to 1959. After three
years in the U.S. Army during World War II, Gaines
returned to school and earned master’s and doctoral
degrees at the University of Virginia. His first ad-
ministrative position was dean of men at
Birmingham-Southern College, followed by
superintendent of Gulf Coast Military Academy,
head of public relations and development at the
University of Houston, dean of students at Southern
Methodist University and then president of Wofford
College in South Carolina from 1952 to 1957. Gaines
headed a special Ford Foundation study before join-
ing the University of Arizona in 1959.

GARRET (GARY) HIERS JR. of Berwyn, Pa., isa con-
sultant with a manufacturers’ agency and distributor
of chemicals. He still swims competitively in the
50-years-and-older bracket.

Dr. JOHN A. PARKINS, since retiring in 1980 from Lit-
tle French Chemical Co. of Wilmington, Del., an af-
filiate of E. I. duPont, has been engaged as a part-
time consultant in the office of research at the
University of Delaware in Newark.

1941

BENJAMIN F. AsHCROFT is president of Nacogdoches
and Sulphur Springs, Texas, Coca-Cola Bottling
Companies. Heis also president of the Texas Coca-
Cola Bottler Council and of the Hopkins County In-
dustrial Foundation. Ashcroft, his wife and three
children live in Sulphur Springs.

1942

KENNETH S. CLENDANIEL is retired from an 11-year
pastorate with the First Baptist Church, Jonesville,
Va., with over 40 years in the ministry. Prior to com-
ing to Jonesville, he spent 18 years in theological
education as academic dean and vice president for
development of the Clear Creek Baptist School,
Pineville, Ky.

1943

KENNETH B. WILSON JR. owns his own food
brokerage firm in Los Angeles, Calif.

1944

WILLIAM S. LATz is chief executive officer for St.
Joseph’s Health Foundation in Fort Wayne, Ind.
Members of the Foundation are currently involved
in a campaign for a satellite hospital as well as
renovation of the existing unit.

ROBERT H. Moore Jr., executive director of the
Pocahontas Coalfield Centennial Celebration, Inc.,
delivered the commencement address at Bluefield
State College commencement in May. Moore is
general partner of the Pocahontas Mining Co. He
also serves as executive director of the Bluefield State
College Foundation and as vice chairman and direc-
tor for the Virginia Coal Council. The centennial
celebration activities will continue in Bluefield,
W.Va., until Labor Day.

   

1946

BEN M. Brown is senior trust officer in the First
American National Bank-Eastern in Kingsport,
Tenn.

Dr. HAROLD T. MANKIN, of Rochester, Minn., is a
consultant in cardiology at the Mayo Clinic.

1948

ANDREW H. MCCUTCHEON has been named a vice
president of Reynolds Aluminum Sales Co. in Rich-
mond, Va. McCutcheon is the director of sales for
Reynolds Metals Can Division, which he joined as
national sales manager in 1980 and served as direc-
tor of marketing in 1981. From 1974 until 1980 he was
director of public affairs for Reynolds.

1949

EDWARD P. BERLIN Jr. is the editor of The News-
Virginian in Waynesboro, Va. He has been elected to
a three-year term on the board of the Virginia Press
Association.

ROBERT E. LEE IV of McLean has been elected
1983-84 chairman of the Virginia Commission for
the Arts. He is vice president of A. Smith Bowman
Distillery and is active on a number of civic,
charitable and educational boards.

THE REv. JAMES T. MAGRUDER recently returned
from a three-week study seminar in China where he
met with leaders of the China Christian Council.

1950

Dr. PETER MUHLENBERG, who has been practicing
pediatrics in the Reading, Pa., area for the last 25
years, has joined a four-man pediatric group.
Muhlenberg is also chairman of the American
Department of Pediatrics at the Reading Hospital
and Medical Center. He and his wife, Dorothy, have
three children and one grandchild. His hobbies in-
clude sports (especially tennis), gardening and nature
photography.

1951

JOHN K. BOARDMAN, president of Sam Moore Fur-
niture Industries, Inc., is president-elect of the
Southern Furniture Manufacturers’ Association.

JUDGE J. ENGLISH ForD was the subject of a Roanoke
Times and World News interview and article on Aug.
2, 1983. The article marked his retirement after 15
years as juvenile and domestic relations court judge
in Henry County. He lives in Martinsville, Va.

C. VicToR Moore Jr. is a geological consultant for
Chevron Overseas Petroleum.

RICHARD E. WHITSON Jr., formerly of Roanoke, now

lives in Norfolk and continues to be with the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce.

39

 

 

    

i.

Coast Confe

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D has been promoted from
f history at ae
t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

National Bank of Hot
nt of Delta Broad-

 

       

   

pointed chairman of the standing committee on con-
stitution and by-laws of the American Bar Associa-
tion. He has been a member of the house of delegates
of the ABA since 1972 and was a member of their
board of governors in 1972-76. He is a Fellow of the
Texas Bar Foundation and a member of the board of
directors of the American Judicature Society. Clark
and his wife, Ann, have two children, Catherine, 19,
and Sue, 12.

E. PETER LITTON is assisting his brother in the opera-
tion of The Avenue, a bar restaurant in downtown
Austin, Texas.

1961

Dr. RUSSELL HARNER has been in the private prac-
tice of ophthalmology in Greenville, S.C., since 1972.
His wife, Ann, owns and operates an air charter ser-
vice. The Harners have two children.

WINTHROPE L. (WINDY) WEED owns and operates a
building maintenance firm in Sarasota, Fla., called
Ragtime, Inc. His wife, Rhonda, is a native of
Australia.

1962

Dr. Henry D. HoLLanp is chairman of the depart-
ment of psychiatry at St. Mary’s Hospital in Rich-
mond, Va.

R. WituiaM Ibe III, chairman of the finance depart-
ment of the Atlanta law office of the firm of Kutak,
Rock and Huie, has been elected chairman of the
American Bar Association section of general prac-
tice. He and his wife, Gayle, have three children,
Logan, 15, Jennifer, 14, and Lucienne, 9.

ROBERT P. LANCASTER is senior vice president for In-
stitutional Sales with Shearson American Express
in Dallas, Texas.

VINCENT T. LaTHBURY, formerly with the INA
Corp., is now vice president of Asset Management
for Merrill, Lynch.

GEORGE H. VAN SCIVER is vice president of sales with
the ABEX Corp. He and his wife, Barbara, and two
children, Mason, 15, and Amy, 11, reside in Radnor,
Pa.

1963

WILLIAM H. CANDLER is editor of PortFolio, a
magazine of Hampton Roads. This newsprint
features lifestyle, entertainment and feature news for
Norfolk, Virginia Beach, Portsmouth, Chesapeake,
Newport News, Hampton, Williamsburg and the
surrounding area. The new publication, a subsidiary
of Landmark Communications, has offices in
Virginia Beach and an initial circulation of 35,000.
It represents a pilot project by Landmark for similar
publications in other regions. Candler is a former
editor of Metro, an earlier regional magazine for the
area, and a former partner in The Donning

 

R. W. McEnally, *64

J. R. Burkart, 64

Co./Publishers, the largest independent book
publishers in the South. He lives in Norfolk.

STEPHEN GUILD has been appointed president of The
Teaching Advisory, a consulting firm specializing in
education and training development with a special
focus on the occasional teacher—a subject-matter
expert who instructs or presents information.

D. ALLEN WYLY is insurance products development
manager for the California State Automobile
Association Inter-Insurance Bureau. The last four
years he has been assistant manager for the associa-
tion in Las Vegas. Wyly and his wife, Ree Ann, and
three children now live in Benicia, Calif.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN T. WINEBRENNER, a
daughter, Emily Alexandria, on April 25, 1983, in the
Hong Kong Adventist Hospital. Winebrenner, who
has served years in Hong Kong as regional manager
for the marketing department for R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. International, was transferred in June
1983 back to headquarters in Winston-Salem, N.C.

ALONZO ATKINS JR. is director of engineering for
Pertec Computer Corp., a manufacturer of com-
puter systems for the information processing
environments.

JosEPH R. BURKART, former vice president for
development at Polytechnic Institute of New York,
has been appointed executive vice president for
University Relations at Pace University. He currently
lives on Manhattan’s Upper East Side.

F. WiL1AM BurKE is vice president and general
counsel of American Security Bank, N.A., in
Washington. He also serves as an adjunct professor
at Georgetown University Law School and a member
of the boards of the National Capital Area Council
of the Boy Scouts of America and the Mary and
Daniel Loughran Foundation.

FREDERICK J. KRALL is vice president, product
management for American Chicle Division, makers
of Trident, Certs, Dentyne and Rolaids. He and his
wife, Susan, have two children and the family lives
in Summit, N.J.

RICHARD W. McENALLY has been appointed Meade
Willis Professor of Investment Banking at the
University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, where he
has been on the faculty since 1973. He holds graduate
degree from UNC, an M.B.A. in 1965 and a Ph.D.
in 1969, and taught at the University of Texas from
1968 through 1973. At UNC he has been director of
the doctoral program and is currently director of the
N.C. Institute for Investment Research. He and his
wife, Martha, have two children, Charles, 16, and
Margaret, 12.

WILLIAM M. Scuitpr (See Samuel C. Strite 1929.)

   

1965

MARRIAGE: FREDERICK A. Casto and Manya
Dianne Helgerson on June 4, 1983, in Alameda,
Calif. Attending the ceremony was William M. Gar-
rison, ’65L. Casto is engaged in real estate syndica-
tion with projects on the West and East coasts. He
now resides in Alameda, Calif.

WALTER H. BENNETT Jr. has left the judgeship to
return to private practice, effective March 1983. He
is with Bennett & Lawson in Charlotte, N.C.

WILLIAM G. BRoADDUs became chief deputy attorney
general of Virginia in January 1982. He resides in
Richmond, Va.

Dr. BLAINE A. BROWNELL continues as dean and co-
director of the Graduate School and director of the
UAB Center for International Programs at the
University of Alabama in Birmingham. He has also
served for eight years as editor of the Journal of Ur-
ban History.

CraIG Corton of Kansas City, Mo., is a manufac-
turer’s representative for several lines of children’s
wear and operates a showroom in the Kansas City
Apparel Mart. He isa member of the Parrish Coun-
cil of Linwood United Church and president of the
board of directors of Tracy House, a half-way house
for alcoholics. Craig and his wife, Jo Lynn, have two
children.

WILLIAM S. Davin, who has been vice president and
director of advertising for Rolling Stone magazine,
has recently been named publisher of Computers
and Electronics magazine, a part of Ziff-Davis
Publishing Co. in New York City.

Douctas V. Davis is deputy international telecom-
munications advisor for the Federal Communica-
tions Commission. In April 1983 he was a US.
delegate to the Organizations of American States
and the InterAmerican Telecommunications Con-
ference in Buenos Aires. In May 1983 he was a
delegate to the International Telecommunications
Union, Administration Council in Geneva.

Dr. JOLYON P. GIRARD, a full professor at Gabrini
College in Radnor, Pa., was the 1983 recipient of the
Linback Foundation Award for Distinguished
Teaching at the college. He is chairman of the history
and political science department.

WoopDaARD D. OPENOis a Self-employed architectural
historian and preservation consultant in Ports-
mouth, N.H. He is also active in the Portsmouth
Athenaeum.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. Lock HANDLEY III, a
daughter, Donna Carter, on June 29, 1983.

BRUCE S. KRAMER is a partner in the Memphis law
firm of Borod & Huggins.

4]

and
ialis in April 1984. Bisbort is employ d
State University and the DeKalb County

ce

 

Zo

sdunselor for int@aahonal:
Foundation i in Washington.

 

 

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MArcus BROMLEY, a son,
Eric Alexander, on May 6, 1983. Bromley is finan-
cial vice president of Crow-Ierwilliger Co., the
residential division of The Trammell Crow Co.
responsible for development in the East. He and his
wife, Nancy, have two sons and the family lives in
Atlanta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD E. WOODARD JR., a
daughter, Julia Grace, on Feb. 23, 1983. Julia joins
her sisters, Mary, 4, and Catherine, 2. The family
lives in Houston, Texas.

CHARLES F. Harris is now active in Upper Valley
Transport Systems, Inc., marketing representatives
for a Quebec-based newsprint manufacturer. He also
was elected to the board of the New Hampshire
Micro-Market Money Fund of the American Board
of Trade. Harris lives in North Haverhill, N.H., and
is president of the Upper Valley Press, Inc., in Brad-
ford, Vt.

CHARLES G. Houston III currently directs the office
development activities of Carter & Associates, an
Atlanta-based commercial real estate firm. He is cur-
rently residing in Atlanta, Ga.

TeD Jupr is writing his M.B.A. dissertation in Edin-
burgh, Scotland. He received an invitation to attend
a party given by Prince Philip in honor of the 400th
anniversary of the University of Edinburgh’s
founding.

DONALD H. Koontz is with Koontz Realty Co. in
Harrisonburg, Va. He is vice president of the Kling-
stein Foundation. Koontz and his wife, Sarah, reside
in Mount Crawford, Va., with their two sons, David,
4, and Michael, 1.

Capt. GORDON S. MAcRAE is the director of the
ROTC program at the University of North
Carolina/Wilmington and also the chief of the ALL
Source Intelligence Center, 82nd Airborne Division.

ScortT G. PATTERSON has been appointed states at-
torney for Talbot County, Md. He and his wife,
Susan, have a son, Jason, and a daughter, Katie.

JAMES M. Say JR. is chairman of St. Michaels Board
of Appeals and vice president of the Memorial
Hospital of Easton Association in Easton, Md.

RuFus WALTERS of New York City has joined Thom-
son McKinnon Securities as vice president in the cor-
porate finance department.

Joun P. WuiTEis president of the Talbot County Bar
Association. He presently resides in Easton, Md.

1972

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. A. ScorT NEESE, a daughter,
Lindsay Young, on Jan. 18, 1983, in Philadelphia.
Neese is a senior scientist in herbicide research for
Rohm and Haas Co. in Spring House, Pa. He earn-

ed a Ph.D. in organic chemistry from Johns Hopkins
University in 1980 and immediately joined the firm.

PETER A. CONVERSE is senior vice president of the
Central National Bank of Maryland. He has com-
pleted his second year at the Stonier Graduate School
of Banking at Rutgers University. He and his wife,
Kay, and daughter, Cari, 1-year old, live in Annan-
dale, Va.

JaMEs S. Davis is senior systems analyst for
Marketing for NCR COMTEN, Inc., maker of com-
munications computers for large-scale IBM systems.
He and his wife, Carol, reside in Dublin, Ohio.

LAWSON H. MARSHALL, former managing editor of
The News & Daily Advance in Lynchburg, Va., has
been appointed executive editor of The Daily Pro-
gress in Charlottesville, Va. He and his wife, Kathy,
are the parents of three children.

Lex O. MCMILLAN III, director of public relations
at Randolph-Macon College, has been appointed
associate director of development at the college. He
is a member of the Public Relations Society of
America, the Council for Advancement and support
of Education and a member of the board of the
Hanover Arts and Activities Center. McMillan is also
a candidate for a Ph.D. in English literature from the
University of Notre Dame. He, his wife, Dorothy,
and two children live in Ashland.

Davip W. OLson is director of corporate com-
munications for FCS Industries, a diversified health
care, service and electronics concern in New York.
He lives in Brooklyn.

JosEPH R. Stay is the public relations director of
Martin Agency in Richmond, Va.

CHARLES L. WuiTE is senior trust officer at Society
National Bank in Cleveland, Ohio.

H. Lock HANDLEY III (See 1966.)

1973

MARRIAGE: STEPHEN L. CorRBIN and Heather
Elaine Copeland on May 7, 1983, on Sanibel Island,
Fla. Alumni attending were: his father, Richard L.
Corbin, ’45; his uncle, William H. Corbin, ’50; J.
Jason Matthews, ’73; and John Duckworth, ’71.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. FELIx M. DRENNEN III, a
daughter, Margaret Walker, on June 13, 1983. She
joins sisters Elizabeth Patton and Mary Hagood.
Drennen is the vice president of marketing at Brice
Building Co. in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES D. PERRY, a son,
John Murdock, on April 15, 1983. The young man
joins an older brother. Perry is with the Dean Wit-
ter Reynolds investment firm in Birmingham, Ala.

W. CHRISTOPHER BEELER JR. was promoted in

January 1983 to executive vice president of the
Virginia Mirror Co. in Martinsville, Va.

PETER J. FuREY is secretary/administrator of the
New Jersey Farm Bureau.

JaAMEs G. HARDWICK sells commercial and invest-
ment real estate for Anderson and Strudwick in
Richmond while he maintains his own C.P.A. prac-
tice in taxation and consultation.

BrucE N. HASFURTHER is teaching French and
history at the Darlington School in Rome, Ga. He
has acquired a Licence es lettres in philosophy from
the Sorbonne and an M.A. in French literature from
Johns Hopkins.

RONALD PEN, previously chairman of the fine arts
department at Saint Martin’s School of Metairie,
La., is now working on his Ph.D. in musicology at
the University of Kentucky in Lexington.

J. RIDGELY PorTER III has been elected president of
the Portsmouth (Va.) Bar Association. Formerly a
law clerk for Judge John A. MacKenzie, he is now
a partner of the firm of Porter & Porter. Porter was
chosen Portsmouth’s Outstanding Young Man of the
Year by the Jaycees in 1977 and one of Virginia’s Five
Outstanding Young Men in 1979.

THE REV. FREDERICK E. ROBERTS, former pastor of
the Hatteras Methodist Charge, will be assuming
ministerial duties at Mt. Hermon UMC in Alamance
County. Roberts and his wife, Betsy, came to Hat-
teras in January 1979. Under his leadership the
churches have grown and prospered. They have two
children, Jimmy and Joseph.

J. STANLEY TAYLOR has joined the Houston Regional
Treasury Office of the Chase Manhattan Bank in
Houston, Texas. He is engaged in the marketing of
government securities, municipal bonds, money
market instruments and foreign exchange for the
bank.

1974

MARRIAGE: KENNETH D. JULIAN and Rebecca
Ruth Lytle on March 19, 1983. Julian is in the
management program at Sikorsky Aircraft in Strat-
ford, Conn.

MARRIAGE: JoEt L. LEGIN and Janice Fowler on
May 1, 1982. Included in the wedding party were
Averill C. Harkey, ’74, and Wade D. Gowl, ’73. Legin
is an attorney with the contracts department of
Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Baltimore, Md.

MARRIAGE: G. Watson TEBo Jr. and Mary Elise
Fox on April 13, 1983, in New Orleans, La. Tebo is
with the Syva Co. in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Amos A. WORKMAN, ason,
William James, on June 29, 1983. He joins brothers
Alan, 8, and John Parks, 2. Workman is an attorney
with Butler, Means, Evins & Browne in Spartanburg,
S.C. Heis also active in the Christian Legal Society.

43

 

 

 

 

M. JonEs, a son,
6, 1983. The family

 

 

 

the Bank of the Southwest in Houston, Texas. He
received his M.S. in petroleum engineering at the
University of Texas in Austin in 1979.

Davip C. WARREN is a partner in the public account-
ing firm of Warren and Koss in Salem, Va.

1977

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CALHOUN COLVIN JR., a son,
Christopher, on Dec. 28, 1982. They live in Isle of
Palms, S.C.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER C. NORTH, a
daughter, Kathryn Clayton, on Feb. 12, 1983, in Nor-
folk, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. DANIEL E. WESTBROOK, a
son, Adam, on Jan. 16, 1983. He and his wife, Pen-
ni, now have two sons. Westbrook is an associate in
the Dallas law firm of Haynes & Boone. He also
teaches first-year legal research and writing at
Southern Methodist University law school.

Dr. Copp ALEXANDER has entered his second year
of orthopedic residency at the Greenville Hospital
System and his wife has started her second year of
pediatric residency. They have a son, Austin, who is
22-months old.

MICHAEL D. ARMSTRONG has completed his M.B.A.
in finance from the College of William and Mary. He
is now the assistant to the president of the First San
Francisco Corp., an investment banking firm in
Mountain View, Calif.

J. AUSTIN BALL has graduated from the Medical
University of South Carolina in Charleston. He has
begun his internship in internal medicine at Parkland
Memorial Hospital in Dallas.

Dr. JoEL EVERETT is a resident in pediatrics at the
Medical College of Virginia in Richmond, Va.

ROBERT W. JONES JR., after completing Harvard Law
and Harvard Business School in 1981, is now work-
ing in Atlanta for McKinsey & Co., a management
consulting firm.

Dr. ROBERT E. OTTENRITTER is a resident in
obstetrics and gynecology at Maryland General
Hospital.

Henry (HANK) L. PHILLIPS, formerly with Planters
National Bank in Rocky Mount, N.C., has rejoined
Wachovia Bank and Trust in Winston-Salem, NC.,
as assistant vice president, analyst section manager
of asset-based lending department. He and his wife,
the former Mary K. Cranfill of Winston-Salem, have
one daughter, Kathryn Ayers.

ROBERT W. PRESTON is working at Fran O’Briens
restaurant in Rehoboth Beach, Del.

EArt W. (SANDY) STRADTMAN JR., is beginning his
third-year residency in obstetrics-gynecology at the

University of Alabama in Birmingham hospital.

GreGorY S. WALDEN has completed a judicial
clerkship with the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia. He is now in the Justice
Department as special assistant to Paul McGarth,
the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil
Division.

SAMUEL J. WEBSTER is a partner in the Norfolk law
firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly & Greer. He and his
wife have two children.

Dr. Isaac L. WoRNOM III is completing his second-
year residency in general surgery at the University of
Alabama in Birmingham.

1978

MARRIAGE: Tuomas O. (Ty) YorRK JR. and Mildred
A. Walton on April 9, 1983, in Jacksonville, Fla.
Among the groomsmen were classmates Gus Frit-
chie, Rick Stein, David Chestor, A. O. Smith, and
Phil Hatchett, ’77. York is general manager of York
Truck Equipment Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. VEGHTE, a son,
Benjamin Arthur, on Dec. 18, 1982. The family lives
in Westfield, N.J.

PaRKE L. BRADLEY is a Sales representative with
Comshare Limited in London, an international firm
specializing in computer software.

Epwarbp A. BuRGEss is a financial consultant with
Robinson Humphrey/American Express in Atlanta.

G. CARTER GREER received his law degree from T. C.
Williams School of Law, University of Richmond,
in May 1983. He expects to practice law in Rocky
Mount, Va.

K. LEE HowarbD, after two years doing free-lance
writing and working on a hotel-motel market study,
has returned to The Day, a newspaper in New Lon-
don, Conn., as copy editor.

G. DaviD Low, after receiving his masters of science
in aeronautics and astronautics from Stanford
University in January 1982, is back at the Jet Pro-
pulsion Lab in Pasadena, Calif., working in
spacecraft systems engineering.

KEN W. MASsTRILLI, after receiving his law degree
from the Cumberland School of Law in Bir-
mingham, Ala., in 1982, is now chief legal counsel
for the American States Insurance Co. in Orlando,
Fla. He is married to the former Stephanie Essman
and the couple lives in Sanford, Fla.

Davip J. McLEAN is an associate with the Los
Angeles law firm of Latham and Watkins. He earned
his law degree from Georgetown University in May
1982.

Tuomas O. O’Hara is the director of fiscal support

for the information sciences division at the
Rockland Research Institute. He is also working
towards an M.S. degree in computer science at Iona
College.

Lt. W. Gorpon Ross is the navigator and operation
department head on the USS Puget Sound, sixth
fleet flagship, home ported in Gaeta, Italy.

GEORGE M. SmiTH is entering his second year at the
University of Rochester Graduate School of
Management.

STEVEN C. YEAKEL is in Carson City, Utah, where he
is executive director of the Nevada Republican party.

EUGENE C. PERRY JR. (See 1975.)

1979

MARRIAGE: J. ANDREW FITZGERALD and
Charlotte M. Prassel on May 12, 1983. The couple
resides in Silver Spring, Md.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Epwarp U. KIssELL III and Dr.
Rebecca L. Beavers on June 11, 1983, in the Canter-
bury United Methodist Church in Birmingham, Ala.
Kissell is a resident in general surgery at the Univer-
sity of Alabama Medical Center. He and his wife
graduated from the University of Alabama School
of Medicine in May 1983.

MARRIAGE: H. LAwRENCE REMMEL and Helen
Louise Lash Victor on June 25, 1983. Remmel is an
associate in the New York law firm of Carter,
Ledyard & Milburn.

MARRIAGE: Joun P. STAFFORD and Nancy Shaw
Strine on May 28, 1983, in Hagerstown, Md. Serv-
ing as groomsman was Tom Hodges, ’78. The cou-
ple lives in Sewickley, Pa., where Stafford is assistant
to the president of Kerr Engineered Sales Co. in
Pittsburgh.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THoMAs A. PRICE, a
daughter, Margaret Armstrong, born on April 18,
1983. The family resides in Jamestown, N.Y.

F. WHITTEMORE BrROMM has become a partner in the
Roanoke law firm of Jolly, Place, Fralin and
Prillaman.

R. CHRISTOPHER COLLINS completed the corporate
credit training program of Southeast Bank in Miami.
He is now a corporate banking representative in
Orlando.

JOHN A. Cralic is working for United States Lines
in Norfolk, Va., as an account manager.

CYNTHIA L. FAUSOLD has joined the Groton, Conn.,
law firm of O’Brien, Shafner, Bartinik, Stuart and
Kelly. Her specialty is workmen’s compensation and
Social Security disability cases. Fausold had been an
attorney with the U.S. Department of Labor.

JEFFREY R. FLETCHER has been promoted to vice

45

won a Kentuck Press

“Best Feature St

| xl 7% wat has finished lis first year of
graduate school at the University of California at
Berkeley where he is studying for his Ph.D. in
ed a M.A. degree in classics

from the University of California at Santa Barbara.

 

 

 

 

November 1982 and has been working for Price
Waterhouse in Norfolk, Va., as an auditor.

GERARD W. BAROUSSE is a commercial loan officer
in the real estate department of the Hibernia Na-
tional Bank in New Orleans, La. Heis also pursuing
an M.B.A. degree at Tulane University.

GorRDON E. BILLHEIMER JR., formerly with Ford &
Harrison in Atlanta, is now a partner in the law firm
of Billheimer & Billheimer in Montgomery, W.Va.

ALAN L. BUTTON is an associate with the law firm of
Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & Doyle. He is currently
living in Fairport, N.Y.

CHRISTOPHER JAMES DANIEL, although attending law
school at the University of Houston, has also join-
ed Chris Scully, ’75, Steve Scully, ’76, and Richard
Wagner, ’79, in the operation of a bar known as the
Boardwalk Beach Club. They expect to open another
Boardwalk Beach Club in Dallas. Daniel has also
started a software computer company in Houston
known as the Interactive Training & Education, Inc.

lst Lt. Davip M. DupDKA is assigned to the First In-
fantry Division Forward in Goeppingen, Germany.

KEVIN B. Dwyer, the second winner of a Henry Luce
Scholar at W&L, left in August for a year abroad. He
expects to finish his third year at the University of
Virginia law school upon his return.

RICHARD J. EISEN is an associate with the new law
partnership of Margulis and Grant in St. Louis.

ALFRED R. HINTz has completed his second year at
St. John’s Law School and worked for the summer
for the law firm of O’Connor and Hayes in Lyn-
brook, NY.

Davip A. Lewis clerked for the summer with the
Princeton, N.J., law firm of Jamieson, McCardell,
Moore, Peskin and Spicer. He is a third-year student
at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.

LEE V. MINETREE works for Mafuta Mingi Produc-
tions. He was involved in two one-hour productions
for PBS, ‘‘The Most Endangered Species...
George Adamson” and “The Most Endangered
Species . . . Dr. Denton Cooley:

MICHAEL J. PERRY, who was admissions counselor
at W&L, has joined Doyle Dane Bernbach, Inc., an
advertising agency in New York, as an account ex-
ecutive trainee. He currently resides in Belle Mead,
N.J.

JaMEs K. VINES is a consultant with Price
Waterhouse’s law firm specialty group. He passed his
C.P.A. exam in November 1982. On a long-term pro-
ject for Price Waterhouse, Vines recently worked
with Mike Malesardi, ’82, and Bill Rachal, ’82. He
lives in Vienna, Va.

Henry P. WALL is a third-year law student at the

University of South Carolina. He and his wife,
Allison, live in Columbia with their 1-year-old son,

Pickett.
1982

MARRIAGE: Wi.u1aM D. JOHNSTON and Mary
Teresa Miller, ’84L, on May 29, 1983, in Richmond,
Ind. Heis an associate with Potter, Anderson & Car-
roon in Wilmington, Del.

MARRIAGE: Patrick D. O’HarzE and Sara Frances
Deaver on June 4, 1983, in Lee Chapel. They live in
Charlottesville where O’Hare attends the Judge Ad-
vocate General School for the U.S. Army.

Guy ARCIDIACONO is a prosecutor for the Suffolk
County, N-Y., district attorney’s office.

Eric H. Burns, after passing the Indiana bar exam
in July, is now associated with the law firm of Han-
na, Gerde & Meade in Lafayette, Ind. He also is a
Republican precinct committeeman.

THOMAS COLEMAN Jr. is employed by American
South Bank, N.A., in their management training
program in Birmingham, Ala.

JAMES B. DALTON III is working on a charter fishing
boat on the Chesapeake Bay. He plans to pursue a
master’s of science degree in geology at Florida State
University in the fall.

MIKE FoGarTy is a Sales representative for the
Washington, D.C., branch of the Virginia Paper Co.
He is presently living in Alexandria, Va.

OwFEN L. GEISz was promoted to production coor-
dinator in the New York office of Treasure Chest
Advertising Co., Inc., Studio Division.

FREDERICK A. MUMFORD III is a reporter and
photographer for The Montclair Times, a weekly
paper in northern New Jersey. He is taking courses
in New York in television production.

Dan ScuotT had the lead role in a small film. He has
appeared as a day player on “As the World Turns”
and has just finished filming a Diet Pepsi commer-
cial. He is currently residing in New York.

RussEL. H. STALL is currently employed as group
manager at Hecht’s department store in Washington,
DC.

JEFFREY M. WALTER is currently working as a fund
raiser for the Republican National Committee in
Washington, D.C.

R. BLAKE WITHERINGTON has just completed
Morgan’s Commercial Bank management program
and will begin a three-month assignment in the
financial analysis department.

1983

MARRIAGE: Davw T. HAYSLETTE and Sarah Ellen

Cook on July 9, 1983. Hayslette is the news director
of WWZD-FM Radio in Buena Vista, Va.

 

In Memoriam

 

1916

ROBERT SAGENDORF KIME, one of Salem’s (Va.) best-
known personalities and attorney for more than 55
years, died May 4, 1983. He began the practice of law
with his father,-R. W. Kime, in 1916 upon his gradua-
tion from W&L’s law school. He served in the 29th
Infantry Division of the United States Army. Kime
was attorney for the city of Salem for over 55 years
and practiced law in Salem for over 60 years, serv-
ing as council to the law firm of Jolly, Place, Fralin
and Prillaman at the time of his death. He was
secretary of the board of trustees of Roanoke Col-
lege, amember of the American Legion Post No. 19,
and a Mason. Kime was also an avid hunter and

outdoorsman.
1920

SHIRLEY JAMES ROBBINS, prominent attorney and
senior partner of the firm of Robbins and McCor-
mick in Dobbs Ferry, N.J., died June 1, 1983. Rob-
bins interrupted his academic career at W&L to serve
in the U.S. Army during World War I. He returned
in 1920 and received his B.A. degree. Robbins also
received a law degree from the New York Law School
in 1938. In the intervening period he served one year
at W&L as an instructor in Spanish and from 1921°
to 1935 as an accountant and auditor for the Great
Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co. and General Motors.
Robbins became a senior partner of Robbins and
McCormick in 1966. He was a former post com-
mander for the American Legion in Dobbs Ferry and
a former trustee of the Greenburgh Savings Bank.

1921

WILLIAM MuMFORD TUCK, a native of Southside, Va.,
who rose within the Byrd organization to become
Virginia’s governor from 1946 to 1950 and Sth
District congressman for 16 years, died at a South
Boston hospital June 9, 1983. As governor, Tuck
authored some of Virginia’s toughest anti-union
legislation. At the age of 27, Tuck was elected to the
House of Delegates. Nine years later, in 1932, he
moved to the state Senate. In 1941, Tuck ran on the
statewide ticket of Colgate Darden and was elected
lieutenant governor. Four years later he became
Virginia’s governor. Tuck was elected to Congress in
1953 and served until 1969. Tuck held honorary
degrees from Hampden-Sydney, Elon College, The
College of William and Mary and an honorary
LL.D. degree from Washington and Lee University

in 1949.
1922

CHARLES VAN SWEARINGEN, formerly Charles Levy

47

     

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Certified Li Life Underwriters
the Baltimore Chapter. —

     

   

 

 

 

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

 

 

Shenandoah

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Girt cards will be sent, on re-
quest, to those for whom you
wish to purchase subscriptions
for Christmas or other special
times.

Sioriesand poems from Shenan-
doah are chosen regularly for in-
clusion in the O. Henry Awards
for distinguished fiction; the
Pushcart Prize: Best of the Small
Presses; The Random Review:
anthology of the best American
writing appearing in U.S.
magazines; and The Best
American Short Stories, publish-
ed by Houghton Mifflin Co.

 

se
AS
We are happy to inform

you that you will

TECE1VE

Shenandoah

as a gift of

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to Shenandoah (published quarterly)

L] One year @ $8 L) Two years @ $13

(1) Three years @ $18

 

 

 

 

My check for $ enclosed.

Name

Address

City State Zip

66

You are the best “‘little’’ magazine in the
country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

I go on admiring /Shenandoahj, none in the
country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

The most dramatic example [of writers turn-
ing to small presses] in this present volume is
the late Jean Stafford’s last story, ““Woden’s
Day,’ (published in Shenandoah). It’s a section
from her unfinished autobiographical novel
“A Parliament of Women,;’... and it
displays the . . . writing that used to earn Staf-
ford space in... The New Yorker. Thank
goodness, therefore, for Shenandoah...

—Bruce Allen, reviewing The Pushcart
Prize VI: Best of the Small Presses in
The Christian Science Monitor,

Aug. 10, 1981

William Abrahams, editor of the O. Henry
Prize Stories collection [observes]
that .. . Ploughshares, Kenyon Review, and
Shenandoah, for instance . . . put out as high
a quality story as The New Yorker.

—Coda, Poets & Writers Newsletter,
April/May 1983

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories ... Sixteen were first published
in... little magazines, .. . (Shenandoah),
for example, one of the best of these
magazines, from which I have taken two
stories .. .).

—William Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

I can think offhand of only two or three
university-financed reviews in which the im-
pact of a strong editorial personality has
created a vital magazine. The examples that
come to mind [include] . . . the elegant and
rather patrician standards James Boatwright
has given to Shenandoah at Washington and
Lee.

—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America:
A Modern Documentary History
(TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

99

 

 

 

The Alumni M agazine of Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Adhtional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Next Summer

 

 

  

   

Take A Vacation AER
With An Idea =o

 

  

The W&L Alumni College

June 24-30:

Society and the Media
July 8-14:

Scientific Frontiers

July 29-August 4:
The Renaissance in England

Watch For Details

