vi

ye alumni magazine of washington and lee university MARCH/
4 APRIL 1985

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 60, Number 2, March 1985

Pe Pi, OOS 6 Lob ol i See's Os ee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
See tas TAGS Fi Se ck SUI ees S50 8 Associate Editor
MN 00's tadaic do bes cae a Contributing Editor
CNL. sss ctauitaieg Pueke es 994 Editorial Assistant
PRE EMERG. SECs tse welvis'y pees 6 Editorial Assistant
Oe, PUNE EMILY Ty cc Sis vdigwnececeaiere Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Perils of a Foreign Correspondent...............eeeeeeeeeees l
CES PUR ei idsidincaddbantantctescaccebecnesentes 8
Engineering Eggbeaters.............ccccccccccccccccccccccccscees 10
Curing Ills the Old Way..........cccccccccccccccccccccccccccees 14
Pommders’ Day Comvocationicess.cccccnccccsccccccvcsccccccees 17
Remembering Charles Laughlin...............0.eeeeeeeeeeeees 19
is oon. ocd ss dog ctss ea ghbaeed vadieds stupanoub die pdeseensege 21
Winter Sports Roundup. ..........cccccccccccccccccccccccccccees 31
EE TOD hee ncdckasshuvecetstpadeten dh ndosencerebedatace sepa 33
I a inc hk ss wb ecg tnanaies O od pug heed CAAA SAShCaenaeD 37
Be I ois caak, ocovebavistdhkebenvesuhebeasbecaqabdahucion 44
Pa TOTES. i ko veces va tdhbs bn chieddpatadtundudchadpighess 47

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through
the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1985, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
President

James W. McCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, 50, New York, N.Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DuBose AusLEy, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. Nat BAKER, ’67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALForRD Jr., 69, Dallas, Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’772L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
HENRY NortTBErc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rice M. TiLLey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, Ill.

ON THE COVER: A collection of photographs illustrates
the diverse contents of this edition. Clockwise from top left:
Robert E. R. Huntley addresses a packed Lee Chapel on
Founders’ Day; one of the medicine bottles uncovered by
archaeology students that led to a project by sophomore Paul
Smith; the ‘‘eggbeater’’ style of windmill engineering pro-
fessor Bob Akins is helping to develop; and a UPI
photograph showing a Moslem militiaman amid the rubble
in Beirut where alumnus Steve Hagey was kidnapped while
on assignment for UPI.

 

 

 

 

Steve Hagey, ’74, was bureau chief for United Press International
in Beirut when he was kidnapped by gunmen and held for more than
eight hours before being released unharmed. In January Hagey stop-
bed by Lexington to share his experience with Washington and Lee
Journalism students. His account of the episode is dramatic; his
thoughts on the volatile situation are thought-provoking. The
Photographs JSrom Beirut are courtesy of United Press International.
Pictured above are Moslem militiamen firing a 75-millimeter
recoilless rifle at Christian forces during the Feb. 6, 1984, revolt
in west Beirut.

 

Se

“i

 

UPI’s Reporter in Lebanon
Recounts Kidnapping Ordeal

by Stephen Hagey, ’74

One of my Lebanese kidnappers stood over me and calmly
screwed a foot-long silencer onto a submachine gun. I was
slumped on the floor—shoved into a corner between two other
gunmen—as he slowly brought the gun barrel around and
trained it on my heart.

I tensed, waiting for him to shoot. My neck hurt. I closed
my eyes. I hoped I would die quickly.

But instead of shooting, he mouthed a sound—‘‘bam-bam-
bam-bam’’—and I realized it was just the latest ploy in a
game the gunmen had been playing with me for hours in the
narrow hallway of an apartment house somewhere near
Beirut.

‘‘We do this to you in ten minutes,’’ he sneered.

I nodded. Maybe, I thought, I’d be able to stall them a lit-
tle longer than that.

I was one of the few remaining American correspondents
based in the Lebanese capital when two colleagues and I were
abducted, robbed, and terrorized on the last weekend in
December 1984. We had planned a quiet dinner in a west
Beirut restaurant. We ended up blindfolded, with guns to our
heads, while a gang of Lebanese gunmen ransacked our
apartments.

 

UPI Photc

Kidnapped

 

cr. 2? a

After I graduated from Washington and Lee in 1974, I
worked in Washington, D.C., for a couple of years before
joining United Press International in Knoxville, Tenn. Six
years later, | was on the UPI Foreign Desk in New York City.
A year after that I was in Lebanon—an assignment for which
I volunteered.

Even though I had wiggled out of some tight spots over
seven years as a UPI cor-
respondent, nothing had
prepared me for that assign-
ment in Beirut—or for the
night I spent waiting to die at
the hands of crazed
kidnappers.

I arrived in Lebanon, my
first overseas post for UPI,
in December 1983. I knew it
would be dangerous and had
tried to come to grips with
the possibility of a violent
death a long way from home.

I thought it might come
from a car or truck bomb, a
piece of jagged shrapnel from a
a stray artillery round, a ae 7 p eT
bullet from a rooftop sniper a Rte.
or a sidewalk assassin, or
even from a hit-and-run by a
maniac driver roaring down
one of the many twisting streets in Lebanon’s lawless capital.

But kidnapping was my biggest fear. It was everyone’s
great fear—the unknown. I rarely talked about it, as if to
mention it would jinx me. And as my tenure as UPI’s Beirut
bureau chief was nearing an end, it happened.

It was 9 p.m. Beirut time on Saturday, Dec. 29—2 p.m.
on the East Coast of the United States. Two colleagues and I
had left the Commodore Hotel, the favored hangout of
foreign correspondents in Beirut’s mainly Moslem western sec-
tor, and had headed to Relais de Normandie, a small, out-of-
the-way French restaurant a few blocks away.

There had been two days of sporadic street fighting in the
area between rival Moslem militiamen—teenagers firing Soviet-
made Kalashnikov submachine guns and rocket-propelled
grenade launchers. But it was relatively quiet that night, so we
had taken a chance and gone out to dinner.

As we approached the restaurant, I failed to notice a
bearded youth behind the wheel of a grimy Mercedes-Benz
double-parked along the sidewalk. A double-parked car was
hardly unusual, though, in a city where one-way Streets run
both ways and motorists occasionally drive on the sidewalks.

We entered the restaurant through sliding wooden doors. I
was in the lead. About 15 or 20 Lebanese men and women
were chatting over drinks and dinner. I barely noticed three or

2

Pd

-_

   

Moslem militiamen during street fighting in the Feb. 6, 1984, revolt.

four youths standing in the center aisle until one suddenly
turned and pointed a pistol at my gut. Wrapped around his
face was a red-and-white checkered bandana—actually a
napkin from a nearby table.

I thought it was a joke.

‘*Hey, man, c’mere,’’ he demanded, in English. I did.

He asked if I were an American. ‘‘Yes,’’ I responded, ad-
ding that I had been working in Lebanon as a journalist for

the past year.
/~ He jabbed his hand into
my jacket pocket and stole
about $300 in Lebanese
money. Then he opened my
shoulder bag, grabbed my
tape recorder, and flipped it
on.

I looked around. The
other patrons were looking at
the floor, the walls, the
ceiling—anywhere but at me.
My two companions—
freelance radio correspondent
Maggie Fox and Reuters news
agency reporter Bill
Maclean—were ordered to sit
down. I remained standing.

Stupidly, I volunteered
that my recorder had tape
from Nagoura, where troop
withdrawal talks had been
held between Lebanon and Israel, behind Israeli lines in
southern Lebanon.

Immediately, the gunman in the bandana accused me of
being an ‘‘American CIA agent’’—a phrase I would hear
steadily for the next nine hours.

He frisked me, and then the gunmen herded the three of
us into the waiting Mercedes. We were told our apartments
would be searched. If we had any weapons, they warned,
they’d kill us. If not, we’d be freed.

We were scared stiff. We had walked into a robbery, and
now we were being taken into that unknown we had feared
the most.

‘*You good man,’’ they told Bill when he said he was
Canadian. They patted him on the back. They virtually ig-
nored Maggie, which surprised none of us even though she
was an American. In much of the Middle East, women are
regarded as little more than second-class citizens.

‘“*You American CIA! You bad!’’ they kept telling me.
Clearly, | was being singled out.

I kept hoping we’d pass one of the dozens of Lebanese ar-
my and militia checkpoints dotting the capital, but the kidnap-
pers evaded them.

My seafront apartment was the first stop. The gunmen
threw my glasses onto a chair and blindfolded us with shirts

/ ye 2:

®
er -
i

Pe ..

fl

7 1 i

UPI Photo

Pa

and socks.

They peeled some of my tangerines. I could smell them
eating the fruit while they stashed my stereo, cameras, tape
recorders, trench coat, shirts, cashmere sweaters, and more
than $1,000 in cash into pillowcases and a suitcase.

Our blindfolds were removed and we were driven to Bill’s
ground-floor apartment several blocks away. A party was in
progress on an upper floor, but no one noticed as the
four bearded youths forced

rye SON
Peet Ao

us inside. a

They blindfolded me with
a necktie and gave me a
handful of cashews, stuffing
some of them into my
mouth. Maggie and Bill were
led into a back room, where
they were bound and gagged.
After stealing Bill’s valuables,
the kidnappers came in and
said they were taking me with
them. By now, it was about
11 p.m.—4 p.m. at my
parents’ home in Bristol,
Tenn., on the Virginia-
Tennessee border.

I asked where we were
going.

‘‘No questions,’’ snapped
one of the gunmen.

I was relieved for Maggie and Bill, for I believed both
were alive and their ordeal was over.

But | was close to despair. I thought I was being driven
away to be murdered—to be felled by a bullet after more than
a year of surviving the extreme violence of Beirut, dodging the
mayhem that had killed some 2,000 people and wounded
thousands more.

We drove toward the city’s southern slums, past bombed-
Out buildings and cinderblock shacks inhabited by a mixture
of Shiite Moslem and Palestinian refugees. No longer blind-
folded, | was hunched over in the back seat between two
gunmen. Two others were in the front. My mind raced over
the possibilities: how could I escape?

| couldn’t come up with a scheme I thought would work.
We headed deeper into the slums. I struggled desperately to
appear calm, but my insides were churning.

| had a splitting headache by now, intensified by the
disorientation I felt without my eyeglasses. They forced me to
Keep my head lowered. If I lifted it slightly, one of them
would bang me on the back of my neck.

Communication was difficult. My captors spoke little
English; | spoke little Arabic. We settled on a mixture of
Pidgin English, Arabic, and French, with occasional sign
language thrown in.

 

USS New Jersey firing into Lebanon’s Shouf mountains in February 1984

I could tell roughly where we were headed—past the Sabra
and Chatila Palestinian refugee camps and on toward Burj al
Brajneh, a Shiite neighborhood a few miles south of Beirut,
between the capital and its international airport. I had no clue
to the identities of my captors, although I suspected they were
Shiite ‘‘freelancers’’ on the fringe of one of the many armed
groups roaming the streets of west Beirut.

The driver eventually stopped the car and went in-
side a house with one of the
others. They were gone for a
while. I figured they were on
the phone with someone, try-
ing to decide what to do with
me.

I had no way of knowing
it, but Bill and Maggie had
broken free and gone for
help. Two UPI colleagues—
Peter Smerdon, a Briton, and
Nayla Shalhub, a
Lebanese—had arrived at the
restaurant just after we were
abducted and also had alerted
what passes for the
authorities in Beirut.

It was about 5 p.m. EST
when the first phone call
came to my parents in Ten-
nessee. My mother answered.
Gene Blabey, UPI’s senior ex-
ecutive for Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, was calling
from our division headquarters in London.

‘‘Mrs. Hagey,’’ he said, ‘‘I don’t know how to tell you
this. I’m sorry, but Steve has been kidnapped in Beirut. We
don’t know who has him. He was with two people who
escaped, but he was taken away. We’re doing everything we
can to find him, to get him released.

For the next seven hours, my family and my many friends
in UPI sweated it out while I was held incommunicado in the
squalor of southern Beirut. UPI executives in London and
Washington kept calling my family, telling them about their
efforts to free me and keeping them up to date on my
predicament.

I was hoping no one knew what had happened, because |
didn’t want anyone to worry about me.

Despite the accusations against me, I thought the kidnap-
ping had few, if any, political overtones. I had stumbled into
a robbery and had fallen unexpectedly into the hands of thugs
who had no idea what to do with me. But that was little con-
solation, because I believed now that they had an American in
their hands, the kidnappers would take things as far as they
could. To me, that meant a bullet.

Eventually, I was moved to a small pickup truck with a
canvas top over the back. I sat between two gunmen as we

UPI Photo

Kidnapped

 

meandered deeper into the slums before stopping in an alley.

The kid on my left—he was about 20, maybe 21—yanked
on my earlobe and slammed my forehead with the palm of his
hand. It wasn’t severe. It was just meant to intimidate or
humiliate me. But when he hit me, it felt like lightning was
flashing through my brain.

The kid on my right had a gun pointed at me and kept
clicking it, either by pulling
the trigger on an empty
chamber, or by flipping the
safety.

They repeatedly denounc-
ed the United States, Israel,
the CIA, and the Reagan
administration—all while
chain-smoking American-
made Marlboro and Winston
cigarettes.

**Steve,’’ said the one on
my right, ‘‘this is your last
night. You know what we do
with you tonight? We kill
you. I love to see your
American blood in Beirut.”’

**] hope you don’t,’’ I
said.

**Oh yes we do,”’ he
replied, adding: ‘‘But no
worry. Tomorrow, everything
over. Everything OK. You go home to the United States. To
family, to parents. But you go home in a box. They will put
dirt on it. And,’’ wiping his hands together in a classic Levan-
tine gesture and using the Arabic word for ‘‘finished,’’ he
said, ‘‘you will be khalas!”’

I tried to get them talking about America, repeatedly tell-
ing them I was a ‘‘good American.’’ They named their
favorite actors—Clint Eastwood, Charles Bronson, and Chuck
Norris. They said they liked slain President John F. Kennedy,
whom they claimed was assassinated by the CIA.

With all due respect to the Kennedy family, I invoked
JFK’s name as often as I could from then on.

After a while, the beatings and threats stopped and they
shoved me into a Volvo parked a few yards away. Another
youth joined them. He was carrying a sleeping bag, which
raised my hopes a bit. Perhaps, I thought, they’d let me get a
little sleep before killing me.

We drove to an apartment house nearby, and I was led in-
side with my jacket wrapped around my head. I was seated on
a couch and blindfolded again.

Soon they led me into a long, narrow hallway and forced
me to sit in a corner. Everyone left, but a few minutes later
another guy walked in and asked if I were OK. ‘‘Yes,’’ I
whispered, ‘‘I’m fine.’’

Then he spelled out their demands—$100,000 for my

4

 

U.S. Marines withdrawing from Beirut in late February 1984

freedom. I told him I didn’t have that much money. He in-
sisted, saying I could write a check.

A check, I thought. A check! I told them no one—not
even the crookedest money changer in Beirut—would accept a
personal check for $100,000. But they kept insisting and refus-
ed to call UPI. One of the three gunmen there said they
wanted me to write six checks totaling $100,000.

I rounded it off to six
checks for $16,000 apiece and
asked whether $96,000 would
suffice. He said it would.

By now it was about 4
a.m. in Beirut. Exhausted, I
wrote two checks for $16,000
each, chuckling at the absur-
dity of what I was doing.
That angered one of my cap-
tors, who snapped, ‘‘Steve,
you joke too much.’’

After I had written the
two checks, they served
Turkish coffee and we sipped
it together. It tasted like
mud, but I asked for another
cup, hoping to soften them
up by pretending to enjoy
their hospitality.

Abruptly, the guy who
appeared to be in charge left
the room and came back carrying a small machine-pistol,
modeled along the lines of the Israeli-made Uzi. It was a Scor-
pion, made in Czechoslovakia. From behind his back he pro-
duced a silencer. It was about a foot long—longer than
anything I had seen, even in the worst B-grade movies.

UPI Photo

He smiled as he slowly screwed the silencer onto the barrel
and trained the gun on my chest. The other two gunmen
stared at me, transfixed. He made a silent shooting sound
with his mouth, detached the clip, and handed me the gun.

I was flabbergasted. I had no idea what to do next. I ask-
ed for the clip. He gave it to me. All three of them stared at
me again. I had the gun in one hand and a clip full of bullets
in the other, but the odds just didn’t add up. I knew they’d
kill me if I made a false move, and | realized I didn’t know
enough about the gun to reassemble it and shoot them. So I
said it was a beautiful weapon and handed it back.

Next, the one beside me handed me his pistol. I held it for
a moment, correctly identified it as a Belgian-made
9-millimeter—to their delight—and then set it aside. I knew
they were playing games with me and that if | tried anything,
it would give them the perfect excuse to kill me.

Finally, I convinced them of the folly of writing $96,000 in
checks, so the one in charge tore up the two I had written.
One of the others inexplicably demanded a check for $1,400. I

wrote it and he stashed it in his shirt pocket.

After more haggling, at about 5:30 that Sunday morn-
ing, they decided to let me go—on the-condition that I meet
one of their accomplices the next night and give him $10,000
in exchange for my U.S. passport, which they were going to
hold as collateral. They warned me not to call the police. I
agreed.

Two of them drove me out of the southern suburbs to a
taxi stand near the Kuwaiti
Embassy, where they argued
with one of the drivers over
cab fare for a ride back into
the center of Beirut. From
what I could tell, they talked
him down from 25 Lebanese
pounds to 15 pounds, about
$2 at the time.

As | wearily approached
the taxi, still half expecting a
bullet in the back, I reminded
the gunmen that I had no
money.

‘‘No problem, my
friend,’’ one said in Arabic.
He reached into his pocket,
fished out 15 pounds of the
money they had stolen from ¥ Ts
me, paid the taxi driver, and
put me into the car with a
last-minute warning about the
police. ‘‘No police,’’ I assured him.

Re

My first impulse was to head for my apartment. I figured
Maggie and Bill were OK, and I wanted to get my glasses
before | did anything else. I found the glasses where the
gunmen had thrown them. Then I was driven to the Com-
modore, where Maggie had been put up for the night with
friends. Bill was safely tucked away at the Reuters bureau
chief’s apartment.

After calling my parents and UPI, I grabbed a second U.S.

Passport | had for emergencies, hurriedly packed a suitcase,
and boarded an Air France flight for Paris that afternoon.
Even as | climbed aboard the plane, I was told that a caller
claiming to represent an Armenian guerrilla group had
threatened to blow up an Air France jetliner somewhere over
the Mediterranean that day.

A few days later, sitting in the safety of UPI’s London
bureau, | was told how my kidnappers had called our Beirut
bureau looking for me.

“Where is Mr. Hagey?’’ they are said to have demanded.
‘‘He owes us $10,000.”’

Our office administrator said I was at the bank and sug-
8ested they call back in 15 minutes.

‘Mr. Hagey owes us some money,”’ they said in another
Phone call. ‘‘He did not keep his word. He is no gentleman.

 

Moslem militiaman in a house ransacked during the Feb. 6 revolt

But we know how to deal with people like him. We have turn-
ed this over to our collection agency.”’

I couldn’t help but laugh, wondering what the good people
at W&L would think of this. Would they request that I turn
in my diploma?

As far as we know, no ‘‘collection agents’? mounted a
search for me in Beirut, and our office received no more

threatening calls.
To the uninitiated, this

escapade must sound bizarre.
But what happened to the
three of us was hardly
unusual in a city where rob-
bery, kidnapping, and murder
are as much a part of the
social fabric as jaywalking is
in most other cities around
the world.

Beirut is an insane
asylum, with the inmates in
charge. With a failing
economy and dozens of
heavily armed groups vying
for control of the capital, it
is getting worse. No one is
safe. Foreign correspondents
there—and at last count there
were less than a dozen native
Americans among them—
probably face more day-to-
day danger than journalists do anywhere else.

Which raises interesting questions: mainly, at what point
does it become too risky for reporters to cover a place like
Lebanon, a story that few readers seem to care about any
more, from a city whose name conjures up an image of ran-
dom, senseless violence?

UPI Photo

, a

It’s been more than two months since I fled Beirut, but I
am constantly reminded of that tortured city. In Washington,
where I am an editor on UPI’s Foreign Desk, I handle most
of our stories on Lebanon.

It’s a country whose agony is at least as old as the famed
cedars in the mountains north of Beirut or the Phoenician
ruins in the southern port of Tyre—two of the most beautiful
sights I’ve seen.

Particularly tragic was the American involvement in
Lebanon. I fear we may continue to pay the price for the U.S.
failure there unless there are fundamental changes in
American foreign policy.

Look back to Israel’s June 1982 invasion, which bears the
clear stamp of American acquiesence. Had Israel accomplished
its stated goal—driving Palestine Liberation Organization guer-
rillas away from northern Galilee—and quickly withdrawn its
forces, the countries involved might not have suffered as
heavily as they have.

Kidnapped

 

Instead, Israeli air, sea, and ground forces nearly pummel-
ed Beirut to rubble in their zeal to drive the PLO into the sea.
As a result, U.S. Marines and troops from France, Britain,
and Italy were ordered in to oversee the evacuation of PLO
guerrillas.

What followed, in the opinion of many experts on the
region, unleashed a wave of instability that thrives in Lebanon
today and threatens to throw the entire Middle East into
chaos.

First, the multinational forces pulled out. Then, in a cycle
of violence that led to a huge blowup in Beirut last year
Lebanese President-elect Bashir Gemayel was assassinated;
Israeli forces thrust briefly into west Beirut; and Christian
gunmen, bent on avenging Gemayel’s murder, massacred hun-
dreds of Palestinians and Lebanese Moslems in the Sabra and
Chatila camps.

In the fall of 1982 the Marines and other multinational
forces were sent back into Beirut with an ill-defined peace-
keeping role that hardly took into account the shifting
alliances among Lebanon’s long-feuding Christian and Moslem
communities.

The Marines soon came to be seen as supporters of
Lebanon’s Christian-led government, which at the time was
allied with Israel. They also were seen as extensions of a
foreign policy that shut out Syria from months of talks that
led to the May 17, 1983, security accord between Lebanon and
Israel.

Infuriated, Syrian leader Hafez Assad vowed to wreck the
May 17 agreement. He did it by fueling a Lebanese Moslem
revolt against the U.S.-backed government of Christian Presi-
dent Amin Gemayel, Bashir’s brother.

Against this backdrop—Arab perceptions of lopsided U.S.
support for Lebanese Christians and Israel at the expense of
millions of Moslems—the U.S. Embassy was bombed April
18, 1983, in west Beirut; U.S. and French peacekeepers were
blown up Oct. 23, 1983, in Beirut; and the U.S. Embassy an-
nex was blown up last Sept. 20 in an east Beirut suburb.

British journalist William Shawcross, after a recent visit to
Syria and Lebanon, wrote in a Rolling Stone article that ‘‘the
only hope for any sort of solution’? was cooperation among
the United States, Israel, and Syria over the withdrawal of
Syrian and Israeli troops from Lebanon and their replacement
by an expanded U.N. force. Even that, he suggested, was a
short-term answer.

In the long run, he argued, worldwide cooperation must
result in the establishment of a separate Palestinian homeland.
‘*And that will not be possible,’’ Shawcross noted, ‘‘so
long as America continues to look at Syria and the rest of the

Middle East ‘through Israeli binoculars.’ ”’

Romie

It was in this environment, then, that I entered Beirut just
over a month after 241 Marines were killed in the suicide
truck bombing of their barracks at Beirut airport. There were
daily warnings for Americans to leave Lebanon.

6

On Dec. 16, 1983, I came in by boat from Cyprus. Beirut
International Airport had been closed by artillery shelling be-
tween Druze Moslem rebels overlooking the runways and their
Christian countrymen a few miles away. On the 12-hour ride
across rough Mediterranean seas, I befriended a couple of
Lebanese.

One related an old Middle Eastern proverb about a frog
and a scorpion, a tale that came to be a reference point for
the factional conflicts in the region.

‘*You see,’’ he said, ‘‘there was a frog who went hopping
down to the Litani River one day in southern Lebanon. He
spotted a scorpion.

‘*The scorpion said, ‘Hey, frog, may I ride across on your .
back?’ ”’

‘‘No way,’’ said the frog. ‘‘You’ll sting me and then we’ll
both die.’’

‘*! wouldn’t do that,’’ the scorpion assured the frog.
‘**Please give me a ride.’’

The frog thought for a minute. ‘‘OK,”’’ he said reluctantly,
‘*hop aboard.’’

About halfway across the river, the scorpion stung the frog
in the back.

‘*Good God, man, what have you done?’’ screamed the
frog. ‘‘Now we’re both going to die!”’

‘*Ah, well,’’ the scorpion said, ‘‘welcome to the Middle
East.’’

This cut-off-your-nose-to-spite-your-face attitude seemed to
abound in much of Beirut. I saw it from the moment I arrived
at the port in Christian east Beirut, when two taxi drivers
fought over who would carry my luggage.

Nonetheless, I would say most of the Lebanese I dealt with
were unfailingly hospitable, polite, and courteous. But the
good were far overshadowed by the bad.

I arrived at a terrible time. Guerrilla attacks against the
multinational forces, particularly the Americans and the
French, were increasing. The city was under an 8 p.m. curfew,
enforced in part by a rash of terrorist bombings that in-
variably began about 7:45 p.m. and continued for the next
couple of hours.

The situation grew worse. On the day after Christmas, I
found myself crouched against a wall at an intersection
overlooking the Galerie Semaan crossing, on the Green Line
separating the Christian and Moslem sectors of Beirut.
Government troops and Moslem rebels were exchanging heavy
artillery and machine-gun fire. Shaken, I hurried back to my
office.

A few weeks later, the city erupted in chaos.

On Feb. 6, 1984, Moslem rebels poured into the streets of
west Beirut and drove Christian-led army units back across the
Green Line in two days of heavy fighting. The battle involved
some of the biggest field weapons available—155mm artillery,
multiple-rocket launchers, mortars, tanks, machine guns and
grenades. More than 100 people were killed and almost 1,000
were wounded.

For the next five months, hardly a day went
by that we didn’t hear the fighting between
Lebanon’s Christian and Moslem factions. Our
office was only a few blocks away from the
Green Line. Often we saw tracer bullets zing
past the windows or heard the bursts of ar-
tillery fire nearby. The carnage was unbearable,
but we kept working.

| left in late May for a three-week vacation
that took me back home to Tennessee and to
visit friends in New York and Washington. I
returned on June 11, the day now known in
Lebanon as ‘‘Black Monday.’’

The shelling picked up as my taxi driver
threaded his way through the Green Line. I
could hear mortar rounds exploding down the street. I was
hitting the driver on the shoulder, screaming to hurry up.
When he finally reached my office in west Beirut’s Hamra
district, | quickly paid him and ran inside.

That night, as the death toll ran over 100, I drove to the
morgue at the American University Hospital in west Beirut.
Ghazi Terhini, our Shiite office aide, was with me. We had
decided to check the casualty toll, to make sure our count was
accurate.

Neither of us was prepared for what we saw.

Scores of people were crowded into the hospital—many
wounded, others checking on dead or dying relatives. People
were wailing. We walked on, our heads down. The floor
began to get slippery as we approached the morgue, and |
realized that | was sliding on blood.

Then | saw them—bodies strewn across the floor. I
counted 48 of them.

The hospital had run out of room in the morgue
refrigerators, so the dead were stacked up like firewood. Torn
bodies, ripped open by flying steel, glass, and shrapnel. I was
struck by how flimsy the human cranium is, and how some
people’s eyes keep staring even after a violent death.

Ghazi pointed to a dead man. ‘‘My friend,’’ he said.

It was terribly hot. Flies were buzzing around. The stench
was unbearable. Stunned, we left as quickly as we could.

| had trouble sleeping that night.

A few weeks later, the Syrians imposed a ‘‘security plan”’
that resulted in the various militias removing their heavy
Weapons from downtown Beirut. The Green Line came down,
Beirut airport reopened, and cargo ships began calling again in
What had been one of the busiest ports in the Mediterranean.

But the underlying problems remain. Resistance to the
Israeli occupation of the south is growing. Little has been
done to rearrange the distribution of power between the Chris-
fan community, which dominates political and economic life
in Lebanon, and Lebanon’s Moslem majority. And little has
been done to reconcile the deep rivalries among the Shiite,
Druze, and Sunni Moslem communities.

By late fall, the situation once again was taking a turn for

 

o-
’
|| abel

oe

-

<a

€

eee
a -
—~

a

e

-
r |
= |
S )
P
.

>

e.

UPI Photo

Hagey (third from left) and fellow reporters on the scene in Beirut

the worse. Rival factions were struggling for control of
various parts of Beirut and the rest of Lebanon. Street crime
was increasing as the Lebanese pound—once one of the most
stable currencies in the Middle East—continued to fall steadily
against the dollar.

Assassinations and car bombings—some apparently settling
old scores within the sectarian groups—became more frequent.

I was losing hope and compassion. I was also beginning to
worry about my safety. I had been taking different routes to
work at different times, but by late November I felt that even
these precautions weren’t enough.

One day, I recalled the words of a Lebanese businessman I
met the day I arrived in Beirut a year earlier.

‘‘Why are you coming here?’’ he inquired. ‘‘If you die in
Beirut, no one will pity you.’’

Then, in December, two Americans were killed and two
were tortured aboard a Kuwaiti jetliner hijacked to Tehran.
We covered the story from Beirut, which had been our Middle
East listening post since American news agencies were expelled
from Iran after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s rise to power
in 1979.

As we followed the story, we heard reports from
Washington that the Reagan administration was discussing the
possibility of a retaliatory strike against suspected Shiite ex-
tremist bases in eastern Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley.

Khairallah Khairallah, foreign editor of An Nahar, one of
the most respected newspapers in the Middle East, came to
UPI’s office during the standoff in Tehran. He was one of the
most level-headed people I’d met in Beirut.

‘‘Steve,’’ he said, ‘‘if I were an American, I would not be
here for any reason. I have never seen it so bad. If the
Americans hit Baalbeck, you had better hide. Better yet, leave
Beirut. Now.’’

He went back downstairs. I asked Peter Smerdon, UPI’s
only other foreign correspondent in Beirut, for his opinion.
We discussed it but reached no conclusion. I didn’t want to
leave. Not yet, anyway.

But in a little less than three weeks, I was gone. I had to
go. It was the most sensible thing to do. And I doubt that I’ll
return anytime soon.

7

Plans for Coeducation Proceeding

Applications Set Record; Housing Recommendations Approved

Washington and Lee’s first coeduca-
tional undergraduate class will be selected
from the largest pool of applicants in the
University’s history.

The flood of applications, which top-
ped 2,600 in February, leads to the next
logical question: how will the University
house the freshmen, both men and
women?

That question was answered in
January when the Board of Trustees ac-
cepted the housing plan recommended by
the Coeducation Steering Committee, the
faculty-student-administration committee
that has been at work since September
examining the multitude of ramifications
coeducation will have.

As of mid-February, W&L had receiv-
ed applications from 2,629 high school
seniors—1,932 men and 697 women. That
represents a 75 percent increase over the
best admissions year in W&L history.

In December the University admitted
110 students (71 men, 39 women) under
the Early Decision Plan. That leaves only
290 places in the 400-member class that
will enter this fall and creates the
brightest admissions situation W&L has
had for years with more than eight ap-
plicants for each remaining spot in the
Class of 1989.

Preliminary studies indicate the appli-
cant pool is the most highly qualified in
years based not only on standardized test
scores and secondary school performance
but also in personal characteristics, such
as extracurricular activities, athletic
achievements, and civic involvement.

Meantime, the Coeducation Steering
Committee spent a major part of its first
few months studying the housing
situation.

After lengthy discussions, considerable
correspondence with other recently
coeducated colleges, and interviews with
W&L women law students who have oc-
cupied on-campus housing, the committee
made its recommendation on housing to
the Trustees at their meeting in Atlanta
in January.

The plan will. use a mix of alternate-
floor and alternate-wing housing for
Davis, Gilliam, and Graham-Lees
dormitories.

8

hee a vai an

Bsuae thy

NA NE

 

Pen oA
$ fs Se
_ a eet Pe She Det “a oo"

Freshman women students will be housed in the center section of the Graham-Lees dormitory

oe f vd:
SES

“=

—

 

(above). The second and third floors of Davis Dorm (the dorm at left in the second photo) and
on the second floor and a portion of the third floor of Gilliam Dorm (on the right in the second

photo).

In arriving at its recommendation, the
committee reported that it was guided by
three major concerns: security, successful
assimilation of women, and privacy.

Other factors, considered less impor-
tant, included noise and damage control
and the ‘‘equitable division between men
and women of the burden imposed by the
necessary conversion of some single
rooms into doubles to accommodate the
increased size (30 students) of next year’s
freshman class.’’

Under the plan, men will be housed
on the ground floor of three-story Davis
while the second and third floors will be
women’s halls. Entrances to the women’s
halls above will be secured by locked
doors. In Gilliam, a four-story facility,
men will be housed on both the ground
floor and the first floor; the second floor
will be a women’s floor. The third floor
will be divided with men occupying
rooms in the North Wing and women oc-
cupying rooms in the South Wing. A
firewall separates the wings.

In Graham-Lees, the largest freshman
dormitory, the so-called ‘‘Archway”’ sec-.
tion that links the East Wing with the
West Wing will be sealed off from lateral
movement by security/safety doors and
used for women’s rooms.

All the conversions will require only
minimum renovations and will be com-
pleted during the summer.

Another aspect of housing associated
with the coeducation decision involves the
University’s plans to construct a new on-
campus housing facility. Although still
being formulated, the plans call for con-
struction of a 240-bed facility for up-
perclass and law student occupancy. It
will be located near the intersection of
Nelson and Washington Streets. The
University has acquired several parcels of
property, including an old bottling plant,
in this area. The site is convenient to the
dining hall, student center, athletic
facilities, other student housing, and the
main campus.

In the process of exploring the pro-
ject, the University discovered that the
City of Lexington’s zoning regulations
actually do not permit a dormitory to be
constructed within the city limits—an ob-
vious oddity considering the presence of
two colleges within those limits. At
W&L’s request, the city is considering a
new institutional zoning category that
would permit the construction and extend
planning flexibility for the future. At the
moment the target date for a completed
facility is the fall of 1987.

The Coeducation Steering Committee,
chaired by Associate Dean Pamela H.
Simpson, is in the midst of examining
numerous other important coeducation
concerns: student organizations, campus
security, University health and counseling

 

services, and the need for a limited
number of staff appointments. Already
the athletic department has appointed
Cinda Lynn Rankin assistant athletic
director in charge of women’s programs
(see box) and interviews are underway to
add a staff member to the dean of stu-
dent’s office.

The 13-member committee, composed
of students, faculty, and administration,
has been divided into various subcommit-
tees, which are engaged in intensive in-
vestigations of the many topics, all of
which are being examined in exhaustive
detail.

For instance, the campus life subcom-
mittee has been considering such policy
Matters as sororities, affiliation by
women with fraternities on the so-called
“little sister?’ basis, and means by which
women undergraduates can gain prompt,
appropriate representation in campus
£0Overnance.

Throughout its deliberations, the com-
Mittee has relied heavily on W&L’s
women law students. A third-year woman
law student who previously worked as a
‘“ampus police officer at the University of
Maine js chairing a security subcommit-
tee. Two other women law students
assisted by taking a late night walk
round the campus with a committee
Member and the University’s landscape
architect to locate areas where lighting is

 

Rankin Named
Assistant AD

Cinda Lynn Rankin, head women’s
basketball coach at California’s Hum-
boldt State University, has been named
assistant director of athletics at
Washington and Lee.

Rankin’s primary responsibility will
be coordinating women’s athletics at the
University.

**We are delighted that Cinda has ac-
cepted this new position. She will be com-
ing to W&L with considerable experience
and will be able to contribute a great deal
to our overall athletic program,’’ said
William D. McHenry, director of athletics
at W&L.

**One of Cinda’s many strengths is her
ability to organize and establish new pro-
grams. She will get this opportunity at
WA&L, and I am sure she will help us build
a sound and successful program.’’

Rankin, 36, received both her
bachelor’s and master’s degrees from
Humboldt State. Before returning to her
alma mater three years ago, Rankin had
been the head women’s basketball coach
at Clifton Forge, Va., where her teams
finished second in the state tournament
in both 1975 and 1976. She was twice
selected ‘‘Coach of the Year’’ in women’s
basketball by the Virginia State High
School League.

Rankin will not be a stranger to

 

 

Rankin

Washington and Lee. From 1978 to 1982,
she was assistant professor of physical
education at Dabney S. Lancaster Com-
munity College in Clifton Forge. As part
of her responsibilities there, she taught
classes in whitewater canoeing for W&L
students.

**l am very excited to have the oppor-
tunity to create a new program at W&L,”’
said Rankin. ‘‘It is very rare that a per-
son has the chance to start something
from the ground up, and I am looking
forward to that challenge.’’

The W&L athletic department has
developed a set of projections for the for-
mation of the women’s program, but
those projections remain uncertain since
much will depend upon the patterns of in-
terest shown by the women who enter
W&L next fall.

 

considered inadequate. Improvements are
underway.

Three members of the committee
spent several days during the February
Washington Holiday visiting with of-
ficials of Davidson College, which
became coeducational in 1972. The com-
mittee has interviewed numerous in-
dividuals who were students on campuses
that became coeducational within the last
10 years.

Even the menus at Evans Dining Hall
and the sign-in policy at the the Universi-
ty’s infirmary have come under the com-
mittee’s scrutiny as part of the Universi-
ty’s effort to make the transition as
smooth as possible.

Said Simpson: ‘‘We are making every
possible effort to assure that our women
undergraduates will be comfortable and
welcome when they arrive at Washington
and Lee in the fall.”’

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Engineering Eggbeaters

The Wind Is Professor Bob Akins’ Specialty

 

 

On even the calmest of days you can hear the wind blow-
ing in Bob Akins’ office on the first floor of Parmly Hall.

Or so it seems. In truth, it’s not the wind you hear; it’s
the whir of Akins’ computer. But they’re virtually the same—
the wind and that computer.

Akins is a wind engineer. His specialty is wind power. He
is also associate professor of engineering at Washington and
Lee.

When he’s not teaching W&L undergraduates the fun-
damentals of structural mechanics or heat transfer, Akins is
tapping away at his computer terminal, crunching data that
denote how hard the wind is blowing clear across the country
in California.

Before coming to W&L in January 1983, Akins was
associated with the Wind Energy Research Division of the
Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M. There, he
was part of a team of researchers working to perfect the
VAWT.

VAWT is the acronym for vertical axis wind turbine,
which is engineeringese for a new style windmill.

‘‘Imagine an eggbeater that is 82-feet tall and 56-feet wide
and turned upside down and you have the VAWT,”’ says
Akins.

10

 

Sandia National Laboratories Photo

Conventional windmills—those
monsters that tormented Don
Quixote—consist of two or three pro-
pellers that turn on a horizontal axis.
A VAWT has a pair of two-foot wide
aluminum blades that spin on a ver-
tical axis.

The Sandia program, part of the
Department of Energy’s efforts, has
installed and is testing the VAWT on
so-called wind farms in California’s
Altamont Pass and San Gorgino Pass.

When he left the Sandia
Laboratories to move to Lexington,
Akins brought one of Sandia’s com-
puters with him. Now, as a consul-
tant, he regularly receives computer
disks loaded with data collected from
the Altamont and San Gorgino
VAWTs. He uses the information to
analyze the turbines’ performance.

Using the wind as an energy source
is hardly a new idea. Wind has been
harnessed for power since 200 B.C.,
perhaps even earlier. Even today wind-
mills spin merrily in the breeze on the
farms that dot the plains of America’s
midsection.

‘If you go back to the 1930s,
every farmer on the plains had a small
electrical generating windmill to run
their radios,’’ says Akins. ‘‘Farmers’
water pumps, connected through direct
drive to a conventional windmill, have been operating in that
area of the country for 100 years. They still are operating
there.”’

Wind came back into vogue as a potential energy source in
the early 1970s. But this time wind was being considered as a
form of large-scale electrical power generation in a utility ap-
plication as opposed to the individual, farm-by-farm
application.

‘*‘Wind energy is not going to displace nuclear power next
week,’’ says Akins. ‘‘But the potential exists to generate on
the order of 20 percent of the United States’ energy needs
with wind if that were necessary. The resource is available; the
means are not necessarily there.’’

At least not yet.

But there are places in California where the emerging in-
dustry is clearly evident, where clusters of windmills—most of
them of the standard propeller variety—line the desolate ridges
to create an eerie sight (and sound).

‘‘Right now there are about 380 megawatts of installed
capacity in California,’’ says Akins, who also consults with
Southern California Edison and with Electric Power Research,

 

 

 

Outside his Parmly Hall office, Akins holds a section of a VAWT’s aluminum blade.

a utility-funded research organization. ‘‘A normal fossil fuel
plant is 800 megawatts. So we’re still not up to 10 percent of
a norma! major power plant.

‘*But remember, this has all come about in the last two
years. Remember, too, that a major power plant easily takes
20 years from the time they decide to build it until there is
electricity coming out of it. Wind turbines can be installed far
more quickly. It’s like buying a car out of the showroom and
driving it home the next day. That’s the way most wind tur-
bines are being installed.”

ls wind power a legitimate industry, though? Or merely a
Passing fancy?

Says Akins: ‘‘Wind is probably the most viable source of
electricity of all the alternative energy sources. Solar heating is
Probably the easiest to do now if you’re in a climate where
that works, but that doesn’t give you electricity. If you want
AC electricity, wind is by far the most economical of the
alternative energy technologies available.”’

That makes refining the VAWT a major priority for the
Department of Energy.

‘The eggbeater is comparable in efficiency to traditional

windmills, but it offers some important advantages,’’ says
Akins.

The primary advantage is that a vertical axis wind turbine
can accept wind from any direction. That eliminates the need
for a mechanism that senses the wind’s direction and then
turns the propellers into the wind.

In the traditional windmill design, the generating equip-
ment is located near the top of a tower that often reaches 150
feet from the ground. The VAWT?’s generating and control
equipment is on the ground, which permits easier maintenance
and allows for a heavier, less expensive design.

It seems simple. Buy a wind turbine. Put it on top of the
nearest hill. Presto. Electricity. After all, the resource in ques-
tion, wind, is found everywhere—and seemingly in abundance.

But it’s not that simple. Considerable research is required
to determine productive sites for the turbines.

‘*Everybody says it’s windy where they live,’’ Akins says,
adding quickly: ‘‘But there is wind and there is WIJND.’’

‘*‘We go through a number of steps to site a turbine,’’ ex-
plains Akins. ‘‘We consult the historical records available at
airports, for instance, to see how hard the wind blows in a

11

 

Engineering Eggbeaters .

 

particular spot. In a remote area where such records are not
available, there are biological prospecting tools that have been
developed. For instance, you can look at how a tree has been
‘flagged,’ which means it has been permanently deformed by a
prevailing wind.

‘“‘If you’re thinking of putting in a relatively expensive tur-
bine, maybe 100 kilowatts or larger, you would want to put
out some temporary towers for a year or so and actually
measure the wind speed in the general vicinity.”’

The siting is especially critical since a small difference in
the annual average wind speed can make a very large dif-
ference in a turbine’s annual production.

‘The difference between an average annual wind speed of,
say, 12 miles an hour to 13 miles an hour can mean a 15 or
20 percent difference in how much energy you get per year,”’
Akins explains.

Naturally some parts of the United States are better suited
for wind energy than others. California is one of the best
locations. The California passes are ideal because the vast
temperature differences between the ocean and the inland
valley cause the winds to pour through gaps in the mountains.

‘People may think they’ve been in high winds until they
try to stand up in one of those passes on a really windy day,”’
says Akins.

The Central Plains possess the necessary resource. But,
Akins explains, current electricity prices are so low in that
area because of the coal shipped out of Wyoming that wind
cannot yet be competitive.

‘‘The Southeast will probably never have wind power
because the resource is just not here,’’ Akins adds.

As they attempt to make the VAWT as efficient and
reliable as possible, Akins and the others working in wind
energy are looking to the future, a day when the wind might
become a necessary alternative to supplement the nation’s
energy needs.

Wind power is only one part of the wind engineering
field—a field whose emergence Akins dates to the construction
of the World Trade Towers in New York.

Akins definites wind engineering as ‘‘a combination of
aerodynamics, metereology, and structure mechanics, used to
determine the effects of wind on man and man’s structures
and vice versa.”’

A 1969 graduate of Northwestern University where he ma-
jored in mechanical engineering, Akins received his masters
from Northwestern in theoretical and applied mechanics.

His first exposure to wind engineering came when he
entered the doctoral program at Colorado State University.

‘I went to Colorado State with a strong interest in fluid
mechanics,’’ he explains. ‘‘But the way assistantship money
worked out, I ended up on the wind engineering side.’’

That also meant he ended up studying with Jack Cermak,
widely regarded as the father of wind engineering. Among the
many projects on which Cermak and the Colorado State
laboratory have worked was a study of San Francisco’s

12

Candlestick Park, where winds have been known to blow so
fiercely that a gust once swept a pitcher off the mound and
caused him to be called for a balk.

During his studies at Colorado State, Akins helped test the
design of the Peachtree Plaza Hotel in downtown Atlanta.
That was done by constructing a scale model of the 65-story
hotel and of surrounding buildings from Atlanta’s skyline,
placing the model all in a giant wind tunnel, and then examin-
ing the effects of the wind.

‘‘The main interest,’’ says Akins, ‘‘is not whether the
building will be blown down, but whether windows will break
or whether the deflections will be enough so that it is not
uninhabitable.’’

 

“‘The Southeast will probably never have
wind power because the resource is just not
here.”’

 

Engineering for the effects of wind has become more im-
portant as structures have become taller and more economical-
ly designed.

‘‘Typically, older buildings are shorter and were built out
of more rigid structures,’’ says Akins. ‘‘Today the goal is to
put the minimum amount of structure in a building to get the
maximum square footage out of it. In exchange for that,
buildings become more flexible and more susceptible to wind
overloads.’’

In some instances, those overloads have been known to
cause motion sickness among people on the upper floors of a
skyscraper that is literally swaying in the wind.

‘‘A large building will usually have a design that is unique
to the location. But the effect that surrounding buildings will
have on the wind loads is as important as the building’s ar-
chitectural design. It’s easy to predict the wind load on a
§0-story building standing by itself on a flat plain in the mid-
dle of Nebraska. Surround that building with others, and what
those other buildings do to the 50-story building is a more dif-
ficult question.”’

That is precisely the kind of question wind engineers are
answering more and more as the field continues to grow.

‘‘In the past five or six years the number of buildings con-
structed with the assistance of a wind engineer has increased
dramatically,’’ says Akins. ‘‘Nowadays an architect would be
more apt to consult a wind engineer as a routine part of the
project than in the past.’’

One study estimates that strong winds, tornadoes and hur-
ricanes cause $3 billion worth of damage a year in the United
States. Wind engineers are attempting to reduce those figures
by helping architects and builders minimize the wind’s effects.

 

 

Wind engineering touches many other areas—wind erosion
associated with agriculture, for one; the way in which
pollutants are transported through the air, for another. |

‘“Wind engineering,’’ says Akins, ‘‘has many applications
you wouldn’t immediately think about.”

' Through his consulting work, Akins keeps abreast of rapid
changes in his specialty while spending most of his time
teaching Washington and Lee undergraduates far more basic
matters in engineering.

‘‘l would, at some point, like to be able to install a ver-
tical axis wind turbine somewhere near here so that students
can have a better idea of what that new technology is all
about,’’ says Akins. ‘‘But if you want to teach undergraduate
engineering, you aren’t going to teach in your research area
because that is about four levels away from the undergraduate
level.’’

And Akins wants to teach undergraduates. He got a taste
of that side of life from 1978 through 1981 when, between
stints with the Sandia Laboratory, he taught at Virginia Tech.

As a student at two major engineering schools and pro-
fessor at a third, Akins sees certain advantages for students
pursuing one of W&L’s engineering majors, whether in
physics-engineering or chemistry-engineering.

‘One of the big criticisms of engineering schools today is
the restriction in their curricula,’’ says Akins. ‘*Those are set
by the national accrediting agencies and leave little time for
elective course work.

‘‘While what we offer here at W&L is limited in the
technical breadth, we now offer most of the basic engineering
courses that you take up through at least your senior year.
And we offer that in the context that a student has flexibility
with electives.

‘‘! would argue that a student who leaves W&L after four
years and gets a one-year master’s degree would be better off
at the end of those five years than a student who pursued a
five-year program at an engineering school. That’s because of
the general education courses they would take here at W&L,
for one thing, and because they’d be taking classes with 20
Students instead of 200 and would have more opportunity to
ask questions and to be sure they learn the material well.’’

The presence of an engineering major is also important at
WAL since it represents another option to students who come
to college without a clear idea of what they want to pursue.

Says Akins: ‘‘Students who know they want to go into
engineering from day one probably shouldn’t be at W&L but
at a major engineering school.

‘But if they have other reasons to be here, other interests
they want to develop—playing lacrosse, for instance—then this
represents an important option because it’s next to impossible
tO pursue the engineering degree at a major engineering school
and participate in extracurricular activities such as athletics.”’

Akins believes the engineering offerings will be particularly
attractive to W&L’s women undergraduates. Nationally,

women currently make up 30 percent of entering classes in
“ngineering schools.

 

There are a few enhancements Akins feels are necessary for
the engineering program. He has already worked with the
physics faculty in revising the engineering offerings, which
now include courses in solid mechanics and fluid mechanics.
Access to more modern computing facilities is one major im-
provement Akins sees as necessary; the addition of more
laboratory opportunities is another.

**] think these improvements are in the offing,’’ he says.
‘*Everybody has been eager to cooperate.”’

WAL still participates in cooperative degree programs with
both Columbia University and Washington University. In
these programs students can either earn a master’s degree after
four years at W&L and two years at Columbia or Washington
or can receive two bachelor’s degrees after three years at W&L
and two at one of the other institutions.

‘*We have two seniors this year looking very seriously at
the Columbia 4-2 option and another two considering
graduate work in engineering at Virginia Tech,’’ Akins
reports. ‘‘A recent employment survey examining areas that
will need the most people by 1995 placed engineering fifth on
the list and predicted a 50 percent increase in the number of
people employed in engineering occupations during the next 10
years.

**I think we can continue to take advantage of that
growth. If we are able to offer at least an entry into a
technical career or graduate school along with our general
education requirements, we have an option here at W&L that
is not available at most institutions.”’

And along the way W&L’s engineering students might
learn a little something extra—engineering the wind, perhaps?

Confesses Akins: ‘‘I suppose I do manage to sneak some
wind engineering into the courses now and then.’’

13

 

by Steven F. Pockrass, ’87

Curing Ills the Old Way

W&L Student Examines Unusual Medical Practices of 19th-Century Rockbridge County

To cure a sty, wrap nine peas in a
cloth. Go to the nearest fork of a road,
throw the cloth over your left shoulder
and say, ‘‘Sty, sty, leave my eye, and
catch the next that passes by.’’ Suffer
from rheumatism? Carry a raw Irish
potato in your pocket.

For most people, these ‘‘remedies’’
are little more than humorous pieces of
folklore. But for a Washington and Lee
sophomore, they represent a significant
element in a major research project on
attitudes toward medicine.

Paul J. Smith of Gainesville, Ga., is
one of W&L’s James G. Leyburn
Scholars in Anthropology. One of four
students who received summer grants
through the Leyburn Program, Smith re-
mained in Lexington last summer to con-
tinue the research he had begun in Ar-
chaeology 377, a spring term course
known to the W&L community simply as
‘‘the dig.”’

His research project eventually led to
the donation of what University
Librarian Maurice D. Leach considers the
most important contribution made to the
rare books collection by an under-
graduate student.

Easily identified by the white poison
ivy medication painted across their arms
and faces, participants in last spring’s dig
excavated at two sites in the high hollows
of House Mountain—a suspected sawmill
site and an abandoned domestic dwelling,
sites that were about 100 yards apart.
Based on their work at these sites, each
student was required to write a paper on
a topic of anthropological interest.

Smith’s topic was medical an-
thropology as it related to Rockbridge

 

 

Sophomore Paul Smith at work with 19th-century medical journals

a
Ae 7
“ny
: L’ 5 7 5 :
£
=> : — Ss *
- ¢ y t
; = fa | fa
N 7 pe |
: anes “<
; : ‘ £: $F") ai {oe
oe . be “ : 7. a

  

 

14

County during the years 1870 to 1930.
He concentrated his research on the high
hollows, @ geographically-elevated area
where the hills meet.

“Since the inception of our work in
the hollows, we have been interested in
the health care that the inhabitants exer-
cised,’’ explained John M. McDaniel,
associate professor of anthropology and
director of W&L’s Archaeology
Laboratory.

Smith’s goal was to determine the at-
titudes these hollow dwellers had toward
disease and health care, supplementing
the archaeological data from the digs
with written documentation and oral
history.

Among the findings at the excavated
dwelling site were numerous medicine
bottles, many of which were clearly
marked as having come from J. T.
McCrum and Son in Lexington.
Although no longer owned by the
McCrum family, McCrum’s Drugs still
exists today in Lexington.

By examining the bottles’ relative
locations on a grid of the excavation site,
Smith can estimate the dates of the bot-
tles. Then, with the help of a former
Lexington pharmacist, Smith has been
able to ‘tread’? many of the unmarked
bottles for their contents.

Smith consulted with Mary Pole, a
pharmacist in Lexington during the 1920s
and 30s, and learned that the different
bottles typically had different functions.
For instance, brown-colored bottles often
indicated to the customer that the con-
tents were meant for external, not oral
use. Three-sided bottles indicated

    
 

One of the medicine bot-
tles undercovered in the
excavation. Others are
shown below.

poisons, such as bichloride of mercury,
which was used as a soak for bad feet
and to fight infection. A glass stopper in
a bottle signaled that the contents had to
be protected from atmospheric
conditions.

From Pole, Smith learned that a bot-
tle could have contained a customer’s
personal formula, the druggist’s own
mixture, or a doctor’s prescription. Hav-
ing been informed by Pole that the
hollow dwellers usually found doctors in-
accessible and believing that pharmacists
would be wary of putting a home remedy
into one of their own bottles, Smith is
working on the assumption that most of
the bottles contained druggists’ formulas.

To supplement the oral documenta-
tion he received from Pole, Smith wrote
to more than 200 doctors in surrounding
municipalities. He received a poor
response, perhaps because most of these
physicians are new to the area.

Smith also interviewed five
Rockbridge County doctors and ap-
proached residents of the hollows for in-
formation. He found most of the
residents were a bit suspicious of a young
college student wearing khaki shorts and
topsiders and inquiring about diarrhea
remedies.

‘Tl had a feeling they weren’t telling
me everything, but I had to expect that.
These were very personal questions,’’ said
Smith. ‘‘You have to establish a rapport,
which is especially difficult to do when
you are not totally familiar with the
area.”’

Hoping to find someone with a
knowledge of old bottles, Smith traveled

 

to an antique shop near Kerr’s Creek
where, by chance, he had a most
memorable experience with an elderly
couple he met.

The woman showed Smith a bottle of
some of her home medicine. She also
claimed she could heal burns by reciting
three magic words and insisted she had
friends who could stop bleeding by talk-
ing with the victim on the telephone.

But Smith’s major accomplishment
during his summer forays into the county
was obtaining five volumes of a doctor’s
account books dating from 1862 to 1880
along with nine books of flour mill
records from about the same period.

The account books include material
about the medical practice of Dr. Samuel
M. Hileman of Kerr’s Creek. The flour
mill records are for Foutz’s Mill in
Rockbridge Baths. The books belonged
to Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Hileman of
Millboro, a community about 10 miles
outside Lexington.

At Smith’s behest and with the sup-
port of Librarian Leach, the Hilemans
have donated the volumes to the Univer-
sity Library.

‘*Paul is the first student in 17 years
to go out on his own initiative and find
something of this kind,’’ said Leach of
the additions to the collection.

Dr. Hileman had family ties to W&L;
a grandson, Samuel Palmer Hileman, was
a member of the Class of 1917 and wrote
an account of his experiences as an area
physician.

Smith has spent considerable time
poring over the account books, which in-
clude information on the doctor’s farm-

*
a $e FF

? J

% 2 ~~»

 

iL aad t
me

 

15

Folk Medicine

ing and blacksmith accounts and even
have medical lecture notes that Dr.
Hileman presumably took while he was a
student at the University of Virginia.

‘*The books are fascinating from a
number of standpoints,’’ said Smith.
‘*For instance, it is clear that barter was
the primary method of paying for the
doctor’s services. There are entries in-
dicating that flour was used to pay for a
particular treatment while small livestock
was used in another case. I would love to
be able to say, for instance, that an ap-
pendicitis was worth three chickens, but
that is not possible.’’

In addition to the account books,
Smith has been examining material from
the folklore library at the University of
Virginia and old advertisements from the
Lexington Gazette. These materials pro-
vided Smith with clues to the attitudes
toward health care.

‘‘It was amazing. They had cures for
everything from the common cold to con-
sumption,’’ said Smith.

Cure-alls included Dr. H. Mozley’s
‘‘_emon Elixir’’ for $1.50 a bottle and
‘Lemon Hot Drops’’ for 25 cents,
‘**Salvation Oil’’ and Lady Pinkham’s
compounds. The Infallable Remedy Com-
pany’s ‘‘Infallable Remedy’’ cost $5 in
installments—$2 for the product and the
remaining $3 once the patient was cured.

A host of formulas including Dr. A.
H. Smith’s ‘‘Nervousness Debility Pills,”’
‘*Wood’s Phosphodine,’’ ‘‘Caton’s
Vitalizer’’ and Royal Medicine Co.’s
‘**Revivo’’ claimed to help men find or
restore their manhood.

Ads for dieters and those with skin
problems also appeared, but perhaps the
most prevalent advertisement was for the
‘*blood purifier.”’

‘*The concept of blood purifiers was
very strong,’’ said Smith. ‘‘Business
capitalized on the belief that impure
blood led to nearly all diseases.’’

Also advertised were names still
familiar today—‘‘Hires Root Beer’’ for
scrofula and ‘‘Doan’s Kidney Pills’’ for
kidney and backache problems.

Other products included camphor and
cod-liver oils. Through his research Smith
found that among the pain relievers add-

16

SALVATION

 

TRADE e) | : aoa

Kills all pain!
Unexcelled as
A Liniment!
Indrspensable
In your home!
Buy the genuine
SALVATION OIL,
Sold for 25 cts,

Sedsdaeceos aso enunbia

ed to the manufactured products were
heroin, codeine, and laudanum, an
opium preparation.

The folk remedies, such as those for
sties in the eyes, were also part of
Smith’s study. ‘‘Magical remedies”’ in-
cluded tying a leather string around one’s
neck to ward off colds and tying a bag
of asafedita (a foul-smelling substance
obtained from the roots of certain plants)
around one’s neck to prevent contagious
diseases—a remedy that seems logical
enough, indeed.

‘*Medicinal cures’’ included dried ap-
ples soaked in water and applied to the
body for ‘‘sun pain,’’ boiled milk with
bullets in it for boils, a drink of water
mixed with finely ground steel for
worms, and various teas for numerous
ailments.

‘*I had to be sensitive to the fact that
as a student of anthropology, I could not
discount the efficacy of such (folk) cures.
You think, ‘What a fool!’ (for believing
in such medicines),’’ said Smith. ‘‘But to
different people, just believing that a
medicine will have a certain effect may
lead to the desired outcome.’’

While it is difficult to document such
a placebo effect, both Smith and
McDaniel see pragmatic applications of
Smith’s study of health care.

‘*Paul’s work could be extremely
valuable for physicians dealing with peo-
ple from similar circumstances or their
descendants today,’’ said McDaniel. ‘‘In
addition, the information Paul has
gathered has bearing on the so-called
‘primitive cultures’ in other areas of the
world.’’

The primary thrust of Smith’s
research now is in examining how a doc-
tor might have adapted his method of
treatment to his patients by taking into

account the patients’ beliefs.

‘*Clearly the people who lived in those
hollows had very definite ideas about
what kind of medical practices would
work for them,’’ said Smith. ‘‘A doctor
working with these people would almost
certainly have to consider those rather
unusual, if not unique, beliefs in deter-
mining appropriate treatment. Examining
Dr. Hileman’s treatment techniques can
give me some insights into this.

‘*Then, using the medical records of
Lexington physicians from the library’s
Special Collections, | want to compare
the way specific ailments are treated to
determine whether there are differences
between doctors ‘in the city’ and a doctor
treating patients from the hollows.”’

Smith’s very presence in the Leyburn
Scholars program is accidental. He plans
to major in East Asian Studies. He
enrolled in the 101 anthropology course,
then nearly dropped the class when it
would not fit into his schedule.

Once in the class, Smith became in-
trigued by the cultural comparison and
archaeological aspects of anthropology.

‘*Anthropology is divided into many
areas. In order to understand ar-
chaeology, you must take anthropology,”
said Smith, an ROTC scholarship student
who hopes his understanding and ap-
preciation of others’ attitudes will be
useful in both his military career and as a
private citizen.

‘It may sound odd, but my first
choice for a post-graduate assignment
with the Army will be South Korea,”’
said Smith, who is considering the
foreign service after the military.

‘*] think anthropology is a fundamen-
tal aspect of foreign policy. You have to
understand the folkways and mores.”’

With that in mind, Smith has already
planned a new project for next year. In-
stead of tramping around the hollows of
Rockbridge County this coming summer,
he is headed for Taiwan where he will
spend a year at Tamkan University con-
centrating on East Asian culture,
language, and anthropology.

And while he’s there, Smith just
might ask if the Taiwanese have a cure
for sties.

Huntley Addresses
Convocation
on Founders’ Day

     

 

Lee Chapel Program Includes
Omicron Delta Kappa
Induction Ceremonies

6 CULL YUE PAGED AUER

Outside, the temperature hovered near
zero on one of the most bitter cold days
in memory. Inside Lee Chapel, mean-
while, a standing-room-only crowd gave
former President Robert E. R. Huntley
the warmest of receptions when he
returned to the campus as the principal
speaker for the annual Founders’ Day
Convocation.

Se ait As is customary, the event was com-
ae ea She bined with initiation ceremonies for
SAR . | Omicron Delta Kappa, the national

‘an Oe a . oat leadership fraternity founded at W&L in
Braving sub-zero temperatures, the faculty makes a quick processional to 1914. In addition to honoring 28 law and
Lee Chapel.

-
.

undergraduate students, ODK ‘‘tapped’’
four honorary members: Andrew H.
Baur, ’37, of St. Louis; David T.
Johnson of Pensacola, Fla.; Evan J.
Kemp Jr., 59, of Washington, D.C.; and
G. Otis Mead III of Lexington.

In his remarks Huntley recalled
numerous anecdotes from the University’s
rich history—a history, he observed, that
has been marked by the institution’s in-
credible resilience.

‘‘Lee brought to the campus an
educational idealism which has sustained
us since,’’ said Huntley. ‘‘Lee’s vision of
Washington and Lee [was of] a place
where young people can grow into people
of character as well as people of educa-
tion. He saw those two as always con-
joined, never separable, and I like to
think that has been the educational ideal
of the institution in all of the years that
have gone in between.

‘There are times when we have made
false starts. I suppose there will be [false

17

 

President Wilson (right) listens to remarks by former President Huntley.

Founders’ Day

Starts] in the future with this spirit of in-
dependence and idealism, occasional
whimsy, eccentricity, some mystique, and
resilience—above all else resilience.

**The school is resilient, a survivor.
Most schools founded in this country
didn’t make it. I can tell you that the
vast majority aren’t still here. Some that
are here today won’t survive. This won’t
be one of them. We all know that. It’s
resilient, it’s independent, it’s a survivor,
and its idealism is intact.”’

Added Huntley: ‘‘You may need
resilience next year when young women
enter here for the first time, and I’m sure
you will have it. I commend you on the
timeliness of that decision, on what I
know will be its expert implementation
and on what I know will be your strength
on bringing the independence and
idealism and resilience of this school into
the years ahead.’’

In his opening remarks, W&L Presi-
dent John D. Wilson observed how ap-
propriate it is that the Founders’ Day
and ODK celebrations are observed
together: ‘‘Both celebrate the concept of
leadership—Founders’ Day by offering
thanks to those who came before us and
helped to establish and to shape the
University we enjoy today; and ODK by
bringing deserved recognition to outstan-
ding students in course and to University
alumni and friends whose talents and
energies are helping to create institutional
forms of importance to our society today
and certain to be of value to generations
yet to come.”’

President Wilson recognized Rupert
N. Latture, professor emeritus of
political science and the sole surviving
founder of Omicron Delta Kappa, who
had celebrated his 93rd birthday four
days before the convocation.

Additionally, the president used the
occasion to announce a recent gift made
to the University by Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart Morris of Houston. The gift will
be used to restore one of the four Front
Campus houses (see Gazette for details).

Senior Christopher Williams of
Newark, Del., president of W&L’s Alpha
Chapter of ODK, conducted the ‘‘tap-
ping’’ ceremonies, including introductions

18

 

Honorary Omicron Delta Kappa inductees this year were (clockwise from far left) David T.
Johnson of Pensacola, Fla.; Andrew H. Baur, ’37, of St. Louis; G. Otis Mead of Lexington; and
Evan J. Kemp Jr., ’59, of Washington, D.C.

of honorary ODK inductees whose
leadership has taken many forms and
been evident in various areas.

Baur started his first industrial park
in St. Louis 30 years ago. Since that time
Baur Properties has developed 14 in-
dustrial parks in St. Louis County and is
one of the largest developers of land and
buildings for business and industry in the
St. Louis area.

A leader in community affairs in St.
Louis, Baur has, through several gifts to
Washington and Lee, created the Baur
Alcohol Awareness Program through
which the University offers programs on
alcohol use and abuse.

Johnson is nationally known as a
leader in the insurance industry. He is
chairman of the board of the Fisher-
Brown Insurance Agency in Pensacola
and has served as president of the Na-
tional Association of Insurance Agents.

As the father of a W&L student, the
late David T. Johnson Jr., ’68, he work-
ed as chairman of the Parents’ Commit-

tee for Washington and Lee’s Annual
Fund campaign.

Kemp is regarded as one of America’s
most effective advocates for the rights of
mentally and physically disabled in-
dividuals. He is executive director of the
Disability Rights Center in Washington.

Formerly an attorney with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, he
provided information to the Justice
Department that won an anti-trust case
against the largest wheelchair manufac-
turer in the world.

Mead, a long-time friend of
Washington and Lee, heads Mead
Associates, Inc., of Lexington, specializ-
ing in farm and land analysis and
marketing throughout Virginia with
special emphasis on the Shenandoah
Valley.

Active in numerous community af-
fairs, Mead recently spearheaded a suc-
cessful campaign to have the proposed
Virginia Horse Center located in
Rockbridge County.

by Andrew (Uncas) McThenia

professo! of Law

Remembering

Charles

| am not sure Charles would approve
of what we are about. I think he would
be puzzled. My guess is that he would
first ask what a memorial service is sup-
posed to be. He would go to that big dic-
tionary on his desk with those funny little
slips of paper which stick out from every
other page to serve as book marks and
look up the word ‘‘memorial.’’ He would
then make a note, in handwriting com-
pletely illegible, that it means ‘*something
that keeps remembrance alive.’’ He
would say ‘“‘hruump’’ and then turn to
the word ‘‘remembrance.’’ He would
then record that remembrance means
‘the state of bearing in mind.”’

He would twirl his pencil and rear
back in his chair and think about that
and probably be dissatisfied with the
definition. Then he might say to himself
remember, re-member, what about a
definition such as ‘‘to put together with
our minds’’? That would be more satisfy-
ing to him.

He might then say, ‘‘well if I wanted
to remember someone I would pull out
my old seating chart from 1941, 1950,
1960, 1970, 1978 or whenever.’’ He
would next say that this is a nice exercise
but that he, Charles, would have no trou-
ble remembering himself because he knew
himself pretty well.

However, he would finally conclude
that if we wanted to remember him, even
though he thought it unnecessary, that it
would be all right if it made us happy.

SO with his permission I think that is
what we ought to do.

| had some wonderful opportunities
tO see various sides of Charles. From all
my views he remembers very well,
because he never came apart.

I first met him in 1956. I was a stu-
dent in college and it was during the se-
cond Eisenhower campaign. Charles was
a senior member of a three-person Young
Republican Club. We generally met in a

een

These remarks were delivered by Professor

McThenia in Lee Chapel on the occasion of
29 ering Charles Laughlin, who died Jan.

at the age of 77.

Charles and
Faith Laughlin

phone booth in the post office because
that was the only place Republicans were
permitted to gather in public during the
golden years of the Byrd machine. We
became political friends but later Charles
almost turned me into a Democrat with
his hair-raising driving. We would be on
our way to a political gathering in
Roanoke and Charles would insist on
driving. We always left 10 minutes late
and made a 60-minute trip in 35 minutes,
arriving 15 minutes before anyone else.
Charles would enter the room wondering
where everyone was while I spent the
next half hour recovering. He drove an
old Ford that had only two speeds: stop
and flat out.

During those same years when I was
in college he and I were fellow students.
He was auditing a course taught by Mar-
shall Fishwick and I was a student in that
course. I don’t recall the name of the
course but we were often discussing
political issues. I mistakenly assumed
Charles would be my constant ally
against the craziness of Fishwick. But
when it came to the politics of TVA,
Charles’ well-entrenched strain of
Midwest populism caused him to join
forces with Fishwick against me. He
came as near as one can come to instill-
ing humility in a brash young college stu-
dent with his forthright and impassioned
defense of what I believed to be a wrong-
headed position. It was only after the
class that I realized I had learned so
much from a very gentle man who was
my fellow student.

The next time I knew Charles, I was
his student in law school. The Charles
stories were legion. Some will recall his
green eye-shade; others will remember the

 

wide psychedelic ties he wore (in the days
before Timothy Leary). However, no one
could forget the terror of a Charles ex-
amination. Seven pages of instructions
preceded a maze of unanswerable ques-
tions. Charles was famous for giving
students choices. The instructions would
read something like the following: ‘‘of
the following 15 questions, you must
answer seven; however, if you decide to
answer numbers 1, 4 and/or 6 you must
not answer questions 15, 13 and 12.
Those who choose to answer question 7
must also answer question number 9; but
if you do not answer question number 8
you must answer question number 10.
However, you may substitute question
number 3 for question 10 if you also
answer question number 11 and if you
can provide a cogent reason for choosing
that path and.. .”’

If you mastered the instructions you
realize it was logically possible to answer
only five of the 15 questions, but that
didn’t matter because you never had
enough time to finish anyway.

No one could ever forget his excite-
ment in teaching evidence. But the most
certain path to hell was to utter the
phrase ‘‘the burden of proof shifts.’’ I
know a former student, now a federal
judge, who still shudders when he recalls
that mistake in his life.

What we all came to know was that
Charles expected the best of himself and
his students. When a student was un-
prepared, he wasn’t so much angry as he
was disappointed.

My roommate, who shall remain
nameless, was manager of the Kennedy
campaign in 1960 for all college and
university Campuses in the three-state

19

area. His campaign duties and general in-
ability to get up in time for class put him
well beyond Charles’ acceptable absence
rule. Charles would not have tolerated
that activity from anyone else and cer-
tainly not a Republican. However, he
bent over backward to ensure that
political considerations did not influence
his judgment. My roommate and Presi-
dent Kennedy’s campaign manager was,
as I recall, required to write an extra
paper in the course. Any of the rest of us
would have been thrown out of the
course summarily.

One of the great joys in my life was
to know Charles as a colleague. He was,
for those of us who were young and
brash, a gentle teacher; when we were
discouraged, he boosted us; when we
wanted to change the world, he reminded
us of the lessons of history. In faculty
meetings he was our conscience. On one
occasion after two hours of high-flowing
rhetoric about how we weren’t really
backing down from principle when in
fact we had just outdone Neville
Chamberlain, Charles suggested in his
gentle way that perhaps we would be bet-
ter to preach what we practiced.

His integrity was legendary in small
ways as well as large. If, for instance,
you asked Charles the time of day, he
would in some detail tell you what his
watch indicated, but he would then pro-
ceed to tell you that he really hadn’t set
it in several days and that it might not be
absolutely correct if measured against
Greenwich mean time.

Charles accepted the world as it is.
He didn’t question it. Our colleague Lash
LaRue had a bad bout of illness during
our first year in teaching. Reportedly on
doctor’s orders Lash was told to rest
every day, and he got in the habit of tak-
ing a nap in what then was the faculty
lounge in Tucker Hall. It was quite a
handsome room and visitors were often
interested in seeing it. One day Charles
was showing some visitors through and
was pointing out the various portraits of
the Tucker family and books from the
Tucker Library, etc., when he rounded
the couch and saw Lash sleeping there.
Without blinking an eye or missing a
stride he said ‘‘and that’s Professor
LaRue and over there is Lee Chapel,”’
pointing out the window.

In addition to accepting the world
Charles was a man who always knew the
excitement of an ‘‘aha.’’ He walked
around with an exclamation point over
his head most of the time. The excite-
ment of learning, the beauty of surprise
never left him. Charles never lost his

20

 

“Charles accepted the world
as it is. He didn’t question
i=

 

innocence. Less than two weeks ago he
and I walked over to Lewis Hall from
the main campus. He asked about my
wife, Anne, and each of our children by
name. He wanted me to tell him more
about my daughter’s experience as a com-
mercial fisherman in Alaska. He thought
it would be interesting to see the Aleutian
Islands and the whales. He wanted to
know what I was working on. And only
after he had caught up on me would he
then consent to tell me about a proposed
trip to Florida.

There is one Charles’ event that I
missed. That was his ‘‘Farewell to Tucker
Hall’’ address. We were in Canada at the
time. Upon my return I asked Charles to
recount the evening. He said that the

speech ‘‘worked’’ but he was quick to
disclaim any credit for that. He said it
was a success for two reasons: first,
Hope, his wife, had warned him about
pomposity; and second, he had two stiff
drinks that loosened his vocal chords.

I was not surprised to learn from
Hope that Job was perhaps one of
Charles’ most favorite books. I looked at
Charles’ Bible and saw that he loved all
the Wisdom literature. I am also not sur-
prised to know that Charles had a great
love for the Book of Romans. He joins
the giants of our faith in his appreciation
and study of that work.

In one sense our efforts to remember
Charles are foolhardy. He never comes
apart. If he did, it would be impossible
to put him back together because God
threw away the blueprint when He made
Charles.

But in the larger sense of remember-
ing, that is, to connect with ourselves, I
think it is possible to remember Charles.
His largeness of spirit made us all more
human. His integrity gave us courage.
His innocence and excitement opened our
eyes. His acceptance of life, and of
death, makes our sadness easier to bear.
We are richer because he was among us.

 

 

Charles V. Laughlin
1908-1985

Charles V. Laughlin, professor of law
emeritus at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, died January 29 in Lexington. He
was 77.

A memorial service for Laughlin was
held on February 3 in Lee Chapel on the
W&L campus.

Survivors include his wife, Hope Lor-
raine Edson Laughlin of Lexington; a
son, Richard V. Laughlin of Vienna, Va.;
a sister, Mrs. Frances White of Colorado
Springs, Colo.; and two grandchildren.

Laughlin taught in the School of Law
at Washington and Lee from 1940 until
his retirement in 1977, when he was nam-
ed professor emeritus.

A native of Pittsfield, Ill., Laughlin
graduated first in his law class at George
Washington University from which he
also received his bachelor’s degree. He
held the master’s degree in law from Har-
vard and the J.S.D., the legal equivalent
of a Ph.D., from the University of
Chicago.

He practiced law in Washington,
D.C., and later in Chicago, and taught
political science at Lenox Junior College
in lowa before joining the Washington

 

and Lee law faculty in 1940 as assistant
professor of law. He was elevated to
associate professor in 1946 and to full
professor in 1950.

Laughlin’s fields of teaching
specialization included evidence, labor
law, administrative law, and juris-
prudence. He was widely known as an
authority in labor arbitration.

He was a United States Magistrate
from 1971 through 1974 and also served
as chairman of the Lexington Electoral
Board.

In 1963-64 he was a Fulbright Lec-
turer on American law at the University
of Helsinki in Finland.

He was a major contributor to a 1982
volume entitled Legal Education in
Virginia, 1779-1979, published by the
University Press of Virginia.

The Washington and Lee chapter of
Delta Theta Phi, a law fraternity, is nam-
ed for Laughlin and the late Dean Mar-
tin P. Burks. Just prior to Laughlin’s
retirement in 1977, the Law School
Association, the W&L law alumni
organization, announced the establish-
ment of the Charles V. Laughlin Award,
which is given each year to the student
selected as the outstanding oral advocate
in the Burks Moot Court Competition.

 

 

Gazette

University Receives Gift to Create The Morris House

 

 

Gift creates Morris House

—EEEa—_-_

 

Washington and Lee has received a
gift of $250,000 from Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart Morris of Houston, Texas, for
the restoration of one of the ante-bellum
houses on the University’s historic Front
Campus.

The gift will be used to restore and

remodel the house at No. 6 University
Place, one of four houses built in 1842.
The house has been used as a residence
for deans and senior faculty, most recent-
ly former law school dean Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr.

To be named The Stewart and Joella
Morris House, the remodeled house will
be used as a seminar center and guest
house. Three second-floor guest chambers
will accommodate special visitors, such as
guest speakers and visiting scholars. The
main floor’s living and dining rooms
would provide flexible use for academic
interchanges involving groups of up to 25
persons for such events as music recitals,
poetry readings, and lectures. The same
area could be used for seminar groups or
small conferences.

Furnishings and art from the Univer-
sity’s collection will help create a
showcase of mid-19th century architecture
on the Front Campus in close proximity
to the Lee-Jackson House and the Presi-
dent’s Home.

‘“We are extremely appreciative that
Mr. and Mrs. Morris have chosen to
make this gift to Washington and Lee,
allowing us to make some very necessary
and valuable improvements to the cam-
pus,”’ said Washington and Lee President
John D. Wilson.

Stewart Morris is president and co-
chief executive officer of Stewart Infor-
mation Services Corporation. A native of
Houston, Morris has devoted his business
Career to the management, growth, and
€xpansion of the subsidiary companies
known as Stewart Title, which has a net-
Work of 1,200 offices and agencies.

Morris holds the B.A. degree from
the University of Texas and a law degree
from Southern Methodist. He was an
Organizing trustee of Houston Baptist
University. For many years he served as

 

President Wilson (right) and University Secretary James Whitehead (left) greet Stewart Morris.

chairman of the trustees and chairman of
the President’s Council at Houston Bap-
tist. He is the recipient of an honorary
degree from Houston Baptist.

He is a trustee of Oldham Little
Church Foundation, which financially
assists small churches; a trustee of the
Star of Hope Mission; a director and vice
president of the Carriage Association of
America; past advisory director of the
National Trust for Preservation; and past
chairman of the trustees of Space Center
Memorial Hospital.

Mrs. Joella Morris is a graduate of
Southern Methodist University. She
directs special events for the Stewart Title
Co. She is founder and president of the.
Confederate Museum of Richmond,
Texas, and is also a president of the Col-
onial Dames of America. She is extremely
active in other civic and historic preserva-
tion organizations.

 

Schewel Scholarship established

 

Washington and Lee has received a
gift of $50,000 from Helene and Bert
Schewel of Lynchburg, Va., for the
establishment of a new scholarship en-
dowment at the University.

To be named the Rae and Ben
Schewel Scholarship Endowment in

 

memory of Bert Schewel’s parents, the
gift is designed to make possible a
Washington and Lee education for
academically qualified students whose
financial circumstances are such that they
could not attend the University without
financial assistance.

A special, but not exclusive, purpose
of the Schewel Scholarships will be to
recognize and help particularly well-
qualified women students.

The Schewel Scholarships will be
made to students living in the Com-
monwealth of Virginia. Preference will be
given to residents of the greater Lyn-
chburg area and residents of the counties
and cities in the areas surrounding
Rockbridge County.

Usually, the scholarship awards will
be made to entering freshmen and will be
held for four years, subject to annual
review.

‘*Through their generous gift, Helene
and Bert Schewel will have a lasting im-
pact on generations of Washington and
Lee students. We are most grateful and
appreciative for this most valuable con-
tribution,’’ Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said of the new
Schewel Scholarship Endowment.

Bert Schewel is a 1941 graduate of
Washington and Lee. He is president of

21

 

eh Gazette

the Lynchburg-based Schewel Furniture
Company.

 

Turner volume dedicated
to Jenks, Leyburn

 

A much-discussed study of the rela-
tionship between German business and

Hitler by Yale’s Henry Ashby Turner Jr.,

54, is dedicated to former Washington
and Lee history professors William A.
Jenks and James G. Leyburn.

German Big Business and the Rise of
Hitler was published in February by Ox-
ford University Press.

Turner is professor of history and
master of Yale’s Davenport College.

In this, his latest volume on modern
German history, Turner concludes that
big business did not, on balance, support
Hitler and his political program. Further
he writes ‘‘only through gross distortion

can big business be accorded a crucial, or

even major, role in the downfall of the
Republic.”’

Recent stories in Time and The
Chronicle of Higher Education have
made reference to Turner’s study in
stories about a major controversy that
has divided historians. The controversy
centers on a 1981 volume Collapse of the

Weimar Republic: Political Economy and

Crisis by David Abraham, assistant pro-
fessor of history at Princeton.

Many prominent historians, including
Turner, have contended that Abraham’s
book is riddled with errors. The Chroni-

cle of Higher Education quoted Turner as

saying: ‘‘Correction of errors in
Abraham’s book destroys his thesis. This
is not petty larceny, it is the Brink’s rob-
bery of German history.”’

Meanwhile, in a lengthy review of
Turner’s volume, The New York Times
observed that he had provided ‘‘the most
comprehensive account to date of the
personal contacts and financial relation-
ships between big-business executives and
the Hitler Movement. His patient and in-

tensive scrutiny of archival sources makes

it clear that the National Socialist Party’s
success in gaining converts and funds in
the business community was much less
than was once commonly assumed.’’

The book’s dedication reads: ‘‘To
William Alexander Jenks and James
Graham Leyburn, Exemplars.’’

Jenks taught history at W&L from
1946 to 1983. He was head of the depart-

22

 

Turner, *54

ment from 1970 until 1983 and was nam-
ed the first William R. Kenan, Jr., Pro-
fessor of History in 1971. Leyburn taught
sociology from 1947 to 1972 and served
as dean of the University from 1947 to
1955.

 

Sumners Foundation adds
to Mock Convention fund

 

The Hatton W. Sumners Foundation
of Dallas, Texas, has made a gift of
$50,000 to Washington and Lee to
enlarge the Hatton W. Sumners Mock
Political Convention Endowment.

The endowment was created in
September 1981 with a grant of $100,000
from the Sumners Foundation.

The foundation became interested in
Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention
through Judge Charles E. Long Jr., ’32,
of Dallas. The endowment grants express
the interest of the Sumners Foundation in
the ‘‘study and teaching of the science of
self-government’’ in the United States.

Washington and Lee President John
D. Wilson expressed the University’s ap-
preciation for the grant.

‘*Early in my presidency I was in-
troduced to the vibrancy of W&L’s Mock
Convention and to the solid relationship
the Convention has to a broad range of
our teaching activities,’’ said Wilson.
**‘Now, through the generosity of the
Sumners Foundation, future conventions
wil! be helpfully supported. We are truly
grateful.’’

Washington and Lee held its 18th
Mock Convention last May and added to

its record for accuracy by nominating
Walter Mondale as the Democratic Par-
ty’s candidate. The W&L convention has
correctly forecast the nominee of the par-
ty out of power 13 times in 18 attempts.

 

Journalists win awards

 

Roger Mudd, ’50, of NBC News has
added another honor to his long list of
laurels.

Mudd was named ‘‘Best Television
Political Reporter’’ in the Washington
Journalism Review’s first annual Readers
Poll.

The awards were announced in the
publication’s February 1985 issue and in-
cluded a brief profile of Mudd, including
his own perspective on his 32-year career
as a journalist.

Said Mudd: ‘‘I have tried my best to
keep myself in perspective as truthfully as
circumstances permit; to resist the en-
croachment of show business into news
business and to be mindful that television
and its practitioners not become more im-
portant than the stories they cover.’’

Two other journalists were recent
award-winners: Phil Murray, ’83, was a
finalist in the 1984 United Press Interna-
tional Young Journalist of the Year com-
petition and Randy Smith, ’80, was a
finalist in the 1984 UPI Virginia Jour-
nalist of the Year competition.

Murray and Smith are both staff
members of the Newport News Daily
Press. Of the six award-winners in the
competition, they were the only ones
from a single newspaper and the only
two from the same school.

 

Elmes publishes text

 

The second edition of a textbook writ-
ten by Washington and Lee psychology
professor David G. Elmes was published
in January by the West Publishing Co.

Entitled Research Methods in
Psychology, the 434-page volume was co-
authored by Henry L. Roediger III and
Barry H. Kantowitz, both of whom are
on the psychology faculty at Purdue
University. Roediger is a 1969 graduate
of Washington and Lee.

The book, Elmes’ third, is an
intermediate-level text that details the

 

es for conducting reliable and

procedu!

valid research in the behavioral sciences.
An introductory chapter invites the

reader to be a subject in an experiment.

The remainder of the text is organized in-

to four parts. The first focuses on the
bases of science and scientific

psychology; the second emphasizes ex-

perimentation and how to do ex-
periments; the third is devoted to non-
experimental research methods; and the
fourth considers pragmatic aspects of
conducting and analyzing research.

Accompanying the text is a detailed
Instructor's Manual that was prepared by
Flmes to assist in teaching and testing
from the text.

Elmes has been a member of the
faculty at Washington and Lee since

1967.

 

_

Fitzgerald’s ‘‘whistleblower”’
papers donated to library

 

A. Ernest Fitzgerald, who made
headlines during the 1970s as the most
famous contemporary ‘‘whistleblower,’’
has donated his papers to the University
Library.

Fitzgerald was fired by the Air Force
in 1969 after citing cost overruns of
about $2 billion on the CSA jet transport
plane being constructed by Lockheed. He
was reinstated after a 15-year battle in
the courts and currently works as
management systems deputy in the office
of the secretary of the Air Force.

The papers donated by Fitzgerald to
the W&L library chronicle his long court
fight and include depositions of former
President Richard M. Nixon and high of-
ficials of the last five administrations.
Other documents are trial transcripts,
related Congressional hearings, and other
government documents.

Fitzgerald chose to donate the papers
to Washington and Lee, in part, because
of his association with W&L journalism
Professor Clark Mollenhoff. As om-
budsman in the Nixon White House,
Mollenhoff was a leading critic of the
decision to fire Fitzgerald and later
Covered the Fitzgerald case for the Des
Moines Tribune.

‘‘I became convinced that placing
these Papers in the Washington and Lee
library would ensure their best use,’’ said
Fitzgerald. ‘‘I know that Professor
Mollenhoff continues to take a great in-

terest in this area and am certain that he
and his students will make good use of
the papers.

‘In addition I found that the Univer-
sity Library is a very good library for
historical documents, and these materials
will not get lost in the crush of thousands
of miscellaneous documents as might be
the case in some other libraries.’’

 

Omicron Delta Kappa
inducts 28 W&L students

 

Washington and Lee University’s
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa initiated
28 students into the honorary fraternity
that recognizes leadership in all areas of
campus life.

The students, six from the School of
Law and 22 from the undergraduate divi-
sions, were initiated, or ‘‘tapped,’’ during
the annual Founders’ Day Convocation
held January 29 in Lee Chapel.

W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK was
founded on the campus in 1914 by three
Washington and Lee students. The
ceremony was attended by one of those
founders, former W&L politics professor
Rupert N. Latture, who celebrated his
93rd birthday on January 18. Latture was
recognized during the convocation.

Omicron Delta Kappa honors the stu-

° | .
> '

 

a
: “

dent leaders from the academic, athletic,
social, religious, and literary areas of
campus life.

Those students initiated were:

THIRD-YEAR LAW STUDENTS:
Richard B. Earls of Charlottesville;
Charles F. Martel of McLean, Va.;
Joseph R. Newell of Virginia Beach; M.
Susan Palmer of Old Town, Maine; John
J. Sicilian of North Babylon, N.Y.; and
Lynn Boepple Su of Westwood, N.J.

SENIORS: Ian G. Banwell of
Cleveland Heights, Ohio; Roger T. Day
of Gardendale, Ala.; John A. Di Duro of
Geneva, N.Y.; Jeffrey D. Dixon of Dun-
can, Okla.; Harry W. Golliday of Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va.; Glen O. Jackson of
Atlanta; Todd D. Jones of Muncie, Ind.;
Kevin H. Kelley of San Antonio, Texas;
Ken L. Moles of Roanoke; Clarke H.
Morledge of Williamsburg; K. Greg Niles
of Oneonta, N.Y.; G. Bruce Potter of
Richmond; Michael M. Shelton of
Yorktown; James R. Spatig of Hun-
tington, W.Va.; Charles W. Stern of New
Orleans; and Mark E. Sullivan of
Atlanta.

JUNIORS: Patrick L. Hayden of
North Canton, Ohio; Lee M. Hollis of
Memphis; Peter J. lerardi Jr. of
Philadelphia; James Y. Kerr II of
Goldsboro, N.C.; David D. Lewis of
Richmond; and Nelson R. Patterson of
Mohnton, Pa.

Whistle-blower Ernest Fitzgerald (left) shows papers he is donating the University Library to
W&L librarian Morris Leach and journalism professor Clark Mollenhoff.

23

lh Gazette

 

Honors, awards

 

e W. Carl Hankla of Abingdon, Va.,
a third-year law student, has been
selected as a John Marshall Fellow of the
Virginia Bar Association.

Under the John Marshall Fellows pro-
gram, law students in Virginia Schools
become members of committees of the
Virginia Bar Association and conduct
research work on the committees’
projects.

Hankla will assist John M. Ryan of
Norfolk in a special project for the
association’s publications commitiee.

e G. Bryan Balazs, a senior from Lex-
ington, has been awarded an ITT Inter-
national Fellowship for a year of
graduate study in Germany.

Balazs is one of 25 United States
students to win one of the Fellowships
which were established by the Interna-
tional Telephone and Telegraph Corpora-
tion in 1972 through the Institute of In-
ternational Education.

Balazs is the second W&L student in
as many years to win one of the ITT
Fellowships. Jeffrey S. Gee of Johnson
City, Tenn., is currently studying paleon-
tology at the University of Tubingen in
Germany under the ITT program.

 

Balasz

Balazs will use his fellowship to at-
tend the University of Erlangen-Nurnberg
where he will continue to conduct
research involving the properties of
multivalent elements in glass melts. Since
his junior year at Lexington High School,
Balazs has been involved in similar
research with Virginia Military Institute
chemistry professor Henry D. Schreiber.

e Seniors Glen O. Jackson of Atlanta
and Christopher Williams of Newark,
Del., have been named co-recipients of

the annual Edward L. Pinney Prize.

The prize is awarded by a vote of the
University Council, an organization com-
posed of students, faculty, and
administrators.

Awarded for the first time in 1982,
the Pinney Prize was established by the
Washington and Lee faculty in memory
of the late Edward Lee Pinney, who was
professor of politics at W&L from 1963
until his death in 1980. The Pinney Prize
recognizes extraordinary commitment
both to personal scholarship and to the
nurturing of intellectual life at
Washington and Lee.

Jackson is an English major at
Washington and Lee. He is a member of
Omicron Delta Kappa national leadership
fraternity and Who’s Who. He is chair-
man of the Student Recruitment Commit-
tee and also serves as director of the
University’s Big Brothers program.

Williams is majoring in business ad-
ministration and accounting. He is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, is president
of W&L’s chapter of Omicron Delta
Kappa, and is a member of Who’s Who.
He is a dormitory counselor, was the
1983-84 winner of the Johnson Scholar-
ship, and was co-chairman of the 1985
Superdance.

 

Here Come
The Judges

It is becoming increasingly evident
that Washington and Lee has produced
more than its share of judges.

In January, for instance, Washington
and Lee judges were particularly promi-
nent in the news for a variety of reasons.

For instance:

e Supreme Court Justice Lewis F.
Powell Jr., ’29, ’31L, underwent suc-
cessful surgery for prostate cancer in early
January.

According to The Washington Post,
Powell, 77, returned to Washington in
mid-February and planned to work from
his home for a time.

¢ Sol Wachtler, ’51, °52L, was nam-
ed the 21st Chief Judge of New York by
New York Gov. Mario Cuomo on
January 2. The 54-year-old Wacthler will

 

administer a judicial system with almost
15,000 employees and an annual budget
of more than $600 million. The New York
State Court of Appeals is generally
regarded as one of the country’s most im-
portant state courts.

Wachtler had served as a member of
that court for 12 years. In an acceptance
speech following the appointment,
Wachtler noted that one of his W&L law
professors had described the New York
Court of Appeals as ‘‘the beacon of the
common law.”’

The New York Times praised
Cuomo’s selection editorially, calling
Wachtler ‘‘outstanding on a list of able
candidates’’ and adding that the selection
was ‘‘a triumph for quality.’ The
editorial went on to describe Wachtler as
‘*a fair-minded, imaginative jurist.”’

e The very same day Wachtler was ap-
pointed in New York, William T.
Brotherton Jr., °47, ’SOL, began his
12-year term on the West Virginia
Supreme Court.

Brotherton, 58, won his seat on the

 

Wachtler

court in November’s general election.
After his graduation from the W&L law
school, Brotherton was elected to the
West Virginia state legislature in 1952 and

 

24

 

 

ee
Graves scores 42
sn Alumni basketball

 

I
Despite the game-high 42 points from

John Lee Graves, ’84, the Columbia Blue
team scored a 104-96 victory over Graves
and the Navy Blue team in the fifth an-
nual Washington and Lee Basketball
Alumni Game.

Played as a preliminary contest to the
Generals’ game with Lynchburg College
on Feb. 2 in the Warner Center, the con-
test reunited 19 ex-Generals from the past
10 years. Included were 12 former cap-
tains and two members of W&L’s
1,000-point club.

In its victory, the Columbia Blue
Generals were led by 30 points from
Dave Leunig, ’79, with Frank Eppes, ’83,
adding 23 and R. J. Scaggs, ’82, getting
20.

In addition to Graves’ 42 points, Bob
Forlenza, °78, contributed 20.

The game was organized by John
Podgajny, °76.

 

Two deferred gifts

 

Participation in Washington and Lee’s
Deferred Giving programs continues to

s, d

 

Participants in the annual Alumni Basketball Game were (front row, from left) Burr Datz, John
Lee Graves, John Podgajny, Don Berlin, Frank Eppes, Bob Flint, Greg Croghan, and R. J.
Scaggs; (back row, from left) Kim Sims, Dave Leunig, Bob Forlenza, Gil Fitzhugh, Paul
Maloney, George Spears, Mike Wenke, Brad Lewis, Chris Baldwin.

increase with two recent gifts to the
University.

W. Magruder Drake, ’36, has made a
gift to the Pooled Income Fund.

Earl T. Jones, ’30, has made a gift
annuity, which is his third deferred gift
to Washington and Lee. All three of the
gifts will establish the Earl T. Jones
Scholarship Endowment.

 

served |2 years in the House and 16 years
in the Senate. He lost a bid for re-election
in 1980 and said that the election to the
Supreme Court provided him a perfect
Opportunity to return to public service.

An article in the Roanoke Times &
World-News quoted Brotherton as saying
that ‘‘{sjince I was in the eighth grade |
wanted to go to Washington and Lee.”’

¢ Back in Virginia, two W&L
graduates—Sam W. Coleman III, ’66L,
of Gate City and William H. Hodges,
‘S6L, of Chesapeake, assumed their
duties in January as judges on the newly-
created Court of Appeals of Virginia. The
10-member court was established to help
relieve the crowded docket of Virginia’s
Supreme Court.

* On the subject of Virginia judges,
an interesting statistic has surfaced
courtesy of Charles L. McCormick III,
38, ‘60L, of Halifax. The gist of McCor-
mick’s correspondence is that you cannot
80 to court in Southside Virginia these
days Without having your case heard by
4 judge from W&L.

Back in November when W&L Presi-
dent John Wilson visited Danville on a
speaking engagement, he was greeted by
alumni from the area. President Wilson
was particularly impressed that four of
the alumni in attendance at the reception
were judges.

When he was apprised of the presi-
dent’s reaction, McCormick felt obliged
to set the record straight:

In fact, there were five judges at the
reception: McCormick, Ryland Dodson,
46, ’47L, and Spiros Skenderis, ’59L, of
Danville; Nelson Light, ’S52L, of
Chatham; and Robert T. Vaughan Sr.,
°42, ’44L, of South Boston. Moreover,
had all the judges from the area made it
to the reception, there would have been
11. The other Southside Virginia judges
from W&L are Charles M. Stone, ’70,
°73L, Frank I. Richardson Jr., ’51, ’S6L,
and J. English Ford, ’51L, of Mar-
tinsville; Samuel M. Hairston, ’51L, and
Robert F. Ward, ’52L, of Chatham; and
E. Gus Mitchell Jr., ’30, ’31L, of Halifax.

Here come the (W&L) judges!

 

 

Generally defined, a deferred gift is
one that allows a donor to enjoy an im-
mediate income tax deduction for a gift
to a qualified charity. But at the same
time the donor retains a lifetime income
based on the principal of the gift.

With a gift annuity, there is not only
an immediate income tax deduction
available plus a lifetime income, but a
percentage of the annual income is also
free of tax.

 

Journalism scholarship
honors Landon B. Lane

 

Washington and Lee has received a
$50,000 grant from the Edward H. Lane
Foundation of Altavista, Va., to create a
scholarship in memory of Landon B.
Lane.

The new scholarship will be centered
in the department of journalism and
communications. It will be awarded to
journalism majors of superior academic
achievement who are planning careers in
journalism.

**The scholarship in journalism creates
an important new educational resource
and remembers an eminent Virginian,
Landon B. Lane,’’ Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson said of the
grant. ‘‘We are truly proud to be the
recipient of this means of honoring Mr.
Lane.’’

A native of Lynchburg, Va., and a
1940 graduate of Virginia Tech, Landon

25

de Gazette

B. Lane was senior vice president and
director of The Lane Co., Inc., the
world’s largest manufacturer of cedar
chests and related items. He had been
associated with The Lane Company from
1939 until his death in 1984.

Lane was the father of two
Washington and Lee graduates—Landon
B. (Laddie) Lane Jr., ’72, of Hickory,
N.C., and John E. Lane III, ’74, of
Altavista. His nephew, Douglas B. Lane,
’°79, is also an alumnus.

 

W&L photographer wins
international award

 

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, University
photographer for Washington and Lee,
has won the Grand Prix award in the in-
ternational Jazz Photo ’84 competition.

Hinely was one of 41 entrants from
14 nations in the contest, which was
sponsored by the International Jazz
Federation, Jazz Forum magazine of
Warsaw, the Polish Jazz Society, the
Polish Students Association, and the Art
Exhibition Bureau.

The only American whose work was
entered in the competition, Hinely and
his wife, Mary Boyden Hinely, traveled
to Poland in November, and Hinely was
presented the award during the 26th an-
nual Warsaw Jazz Jamboree, which
featured a wide array of jazz musicians

 

from throughout the world.

The prize-winning photograph was of
American saxophonist Sonny Rollins. It
was originally shot in Canada on an
assignment for another jazz magazine,
Swing Journal of Tokyo.

Hinely has contributed photography,
interviews, and reviews to Jazz Forum
since 1981. Published bimonthly in War-
saw, Jazz Forum is the only international
jazz magazine, with a Polish edition of
20,000 copies plus 10,000 in English.

A 1973 graduate of Washington and
Lee where he majored in journalism,
Hinely has been the University
photographer since 1980.

He has been staff photographer for
Spoleto Festival USA in Charleston,
S.C., since 1977 and is also a contributor
to down beat, the American jazz
magazine headquartered in Chicago.

Hinely’s prize-winning photograph of
Sonny Rollins along with several of his
other jazz photographs are on permanent
display in the O.W. Riegel Telecom-
munications Laboratory on the third
floor of W&L’s Reid Hall.

 

Cramton is scholar-in-residence

 

Roger C. Cramton, the Robert S.
Stevens Professor of Law at the Cornell
School of Law, is the Frances Lewis Law

Hinely displays his winning photograph with several of his album covers in the background.

26

 

od
‘> =
-

We

£ 7 ;
NYU

C4
‘
AS
4
Ove

7 dsl gets*

7 bf! GNSS Me
<S ty,

CSS Ail

, DN
Wt os
: - Of
on - <2
corn ‘) Yigg So
~*~ a Me

Cramton

Center’s scholar-in-residence for the
winter semester.

While in residence, Cramton will be
conducting research on problems of pro-
fessionalism in the legal profession. He
will be examining the sociology, moral
philosophy, and economics of the law
profession in the United States today.

A native of Pittsfield, Mass., Cram-
ton received his bachelor’s degree from
Harvard and his law degree from the
University of Chicago.

He began his legal career by serving
as law clerk successively for two federal
judges. He has been engaged in law
school teaching since 1957 when he was
appointed assistant professor at the
University of Chicago. From 1961 to
1970 he was a member of the faculty of
the University of Michigan School of
Law.

Cramton’s scholarship and teaching
have been primarily in the fields of ad-
ministrative law, conflict of laws, profes-
sional responsibility, and torts.

Cramton served as chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States, an independent federal agency
concerned with the improvement of
federal administrative procedures, from
1970 to 1972, and as assistant attorney
general in charge of the Office of Legal
Counsel of the Department of Justice
from 1972 to 1973.

In 1979-80, Cramton served as chair-
man of the American Bar Association’s
Task Force on Lawyer Competency: The
Role of the Law Schools, which publish-
ed its report in June 1979. He is editor of
the Journal of Legal Education, the of-
ficial publication of the Association of
American Law Schools.

 

 

ee

phone-a-thon raises $111,670

 

ee
The numbers tell the story: 15

telephones, 12 days, 97 students, 1,517
alumni plus 212 current and past parents,
862 specific pledges, and, most important
of all, a grand total of $111,670.
Washington and Lee staged its most
ambitious student phone-a-thon during

January and February with impressive

results.

Operating from the Alumni House,
the student volunteers dialed away for
approximately three hours each evening,
soliciting support for the Annual Fund
campaign.

‘‘There is no way to compare this stu-
dent phone-a-thon with our past efforts
because we spent more time and had
more students involved than ever
before,’’ said Carter V. McNeese,
associate director of development. ‘‘We
were delighted with the response and ap-
preciative of the strong show of
support.’

In addition to the $111,670 in specific
pledges, the student callers received 314
other pledges without a specific amount.

 

W&L law school team
examines Medicare system

 

Changes enacted in the Medicare
system are likely to revolutionize the
system by which Americans pay for their
health care, according to an article by a
Washington and Lee law professor and a
W&L law student.

J. Timothy Philipps, professor of law,
and Don E. Wineberg, a third-year law
Student from Providence, R.I., are the
authors of an article entitled ‘‘Medicare
Prospective Payment: A Quiet Revolu-
tion’’ in the Fall 1984 issue of the West
Virginia Law Review.

In their article, Philipps and Wineberg
review the changes in the Medicare
system that resulted from the Social
Security Amendments of 1983 and make
4 series of predictions about the eventual
impact those changes will have not only
in terms of Medicare but for the entire
health care industry.

‘Most of the publicity surrounding
the Social Security Amendments of 1983
Involved | he Old Age and Survivors In-
‘urance portions of the law,’’ notes

 

 

Philipps. ‘‘Actually, some other elements
of those amendments were more far-
reaching, particularly the changes that in-
volved a new method of reimbursing
hospitals for Medicare on a ‘prospective

>’ 99

basis.

According to Philipps, the new system
is based on a method of placing illnesses
in 468 different categories. A specific
price is placed on each of those
categories, and Medicare will then reim-
burse a hospital that amount.

‘*The hospital receives that standard
payment regardless of the patient’s length
of stay,’’ explains Philipps. ‘‘If the
hospital is efficient and treats the patient

Students (above and at left) man the
telephones for the annual phone-a-thon.

for less than the standard Medicare pay-
ment for the particular illness, then the
hospital makes a profit. If the stay is
longer, then the hospital loses money.

**So far the changes have resulted in a
decrease in the average length of a
hospital stay for Medicare patients. The
system is accomplishing one of its
goals—that is to hold down costs.
Hospitals have an incentive for efficient
health care delivery.’’

The changes currently apply only to
in-patient hospital expenses. In their arti-
cle, Philipps and Wineberg predict that
the system will eventually be expanded to
cover more services such as physicians’
fees and outpatient services.

Philipps and Wineberg cited several
possible effects of the change in
Medicare, including hospital specializa-
tion, selectivity in technology use,
changes in service utilization, fewer
hospital admissions, and increased pre-
admission testing and outpatient
treatment.

Moreover, the authors suggest that a
similar system may ultimately be extend-
ed into the private sector.

**It could well be a bonus for con-
sumers,’’ says Philipps. ‘‘Such a system
as Medicare has begun to use could be
extended to other areas, perhaps by
legislation on the part of individual
states.”’

Adds Philipps: ‘‘One area in which
we did not venture a prediction was what

27

ef Gazette

effect, if any, these changes might have
on the quality of care patients receive.’’

Philipps and Wineberg recently led a
colloquium for the Washington and Lee
law faculty on the changes in the
Medicare system.

Research on the project was spon-
sored by the Frances Lewis Law Center
of the W&L law school. Wineberg, a
1980 graduate of Brown University, is a
fellow of the Lewis Law Center. Follow-
ing his graduation from W&L this spring,
he will join the Providence law firm of
Adler, Pollock and Sheehan.

Philipps, whose specialty is tax law,
has been a member of the W&L law
school faculty since 1980. A native of
Barnesville, Ohio, he is a graduate of
Wheeling College and received his juris
doctor degree from Georgetown and his
master of law from Harvard.

 

French psychologist
conducting research at W&L

 

A French psychologist engaged in
research on brain control of memory is
spending eight months working in the
Washington and Lee psychology
laboratory with W&L professor Leonard
Jarrard.

Daniel Berocachea, who received his
terminal degree (the equivalent of a
Ph.D. under the American educational
structure) in psychology from the Univer-
sity of Bordeaux, has been in residence at
W&L since November.

He is conducting research under
grants from the Ministrie des Relations
Exterieures and the Fyrsen Foundation.

Berocachea’s research at W&L in-
volves the relationship between the use of
alcohol and memory loss. It is the con-
tinuation of research he has been conduc-
ting in France.

‘‘In France we were attempting to
create an animal model, using mice, to
examine the memory loss after six
months of alcohol use,’’ explained
Berocachea. ‘‘The research is focusing on
the loss of cells in two areas of the brain:
the mamillary bodies and the
hippocampus.”’

At Washington and Lee, Berocachea
is experimenting with rats rather than
mice and will be using some of the ex-
perimental techniques that Jarrard has

28

 

ia

Jarrard (left) and Berocachea at work in the
psychology laboratory

developed during his research on the
hippocampus.

‘*T wanted to come to Washington
and Lee because of Professor Jarrard’s
presence,’’ explained Berocachea. ‘‘My
director of studies in France had met

Professor Jarrard, and they had exchang-
ed some information on their respective
research.’’

In addition to pursuing his own pro-
ject, Berocachea and Jarrard are working
together on a second research project this
semester.

 

Ju publishes third volume
in series on brush painting

 

I-Hsiung Ju, artist-in-residence and
professor of art, has recently published
the third book in his four-volume series
on Chinese brush painting.

The Book of Chrysanthemum was
published in December and includes step-
by-step instruction on how to paint the
chrysanthemum, one of the ‘‘four
gentlemen’’ which contain basic strokes
for all Chinese brush painting.

Ju previously published The Book of
Bamboo (1968) and The Book of Orchid
(1977). The fourth and final volume
scheduled for the series will be The Book
of Plum.

The series is designed to provide in-
struction on technique in a detailed and
organized manner, serving as a practical
handbook for students of Chinese brush
painting.

 

Washington and Lee’s annual Superdance received pledges of $33,213 for the Muscular
Dystrophy Association. The event’s organizers, all seniors, were (from left) Chris Williams,
David Sizemore, Darby Brower, and Charles Stern.

 

 

LaRue

 

_

LaRue named director
of Lewis Law Center

 

Lewis H. LaRue, professor of law
since 1967, has been appointed director
of the Frances Lewis Law Center at
W&L, effective July 1.

LaRue succeeds Thomas L. Shaffer,
who is resigning the law center director-
ship in order to devote full time to his
teaching duties.

The Lewis Law Center was established
through a $2 million endowment from
Frances and Sydney Lewis of Richmond,
Va., and is designed to focus on develop-
ing knowledge ‘‘at the frontiers of the
law.”’

In announcing the appointment of
LaRue, Washington and Lee law school
dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. said: ‘‘I1 am
very pleased and excited to have Pro-
fessor LaRue accept this position. I am
confident that he will continue to pro-
mote the important research and scholar-
ship, which has made the Law Center
such a vital element in the life of the
School of Law.”’

A 1959 graduate of Washington and
Lee, LaRue received his law degree from
Harvard in 1962. He served as a legal of-
ficer with the U.S. Marine Corps for
three years and was a trial attorney with
the United States Department of Justice
from 1965 until 1967.

His teaching areas include constitu-

onal law. jurisprudence, and legislation.
He has written and lectured most recently
°N such topics as the impeachment pro-

©eedings against Richard Nixon, the role

 

Schwab

of civil disobedience, and the lifetime
tenure of Supreme Court justices.

 

Faculty activities

 

e Frederic L. Schwab, professor of
geology, has been named to a three-year
membership on the advisory board of the
Petroleum Research Fund of the
American Chemical Society.

The 25-member board is part of a
grant-giving organization that dispenses
approximately $11 million annually for
research in the sciences, particularly
chemistry and the earth sciences.

Schwab will be one of five earth
scientists on the board and is the only
representative from an undergraduate
geology department.

e Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of
law, was a member of the faculty for the
19th annual Philip E. Heckerling Institute
on Estate Planning in Miami in January.

The week-long institute was designed
to review changes in the law that involve
estate planning as well as identifying
practical and ethical programs in the
daily practice of estate planning.

Shaffer, whose specialty is the field of
legal ethics, presented a lecture entitled
*‘On Being Pleasant: Ethics in Estate
Planning.’’

e James W. Whitehead, secretary of
the University, presented slide-lectures on
W&L’s Reeves Collection at the 11th an-
nual Pilgrimage Garden Club Antiques
Forum in Natchez, Miss., and in Aiken,
S.C., at a program sponsored by the

 

Wiant

South Carolina Governor’s Mansion
Foundation and Antiques magazine
recently.

¢ David B. Dickens, associate pro-
fessor of German, presided over a section
of the annual convention of the
American Association of Teachers of
German in Chicago recently.

Dickens presided over a literary sec-
tion devoted to the work of J. M. R.
Lenz, a contemporary of Goethe, who is
remembered primarily for his dramas.

e Charles W. Turner, professor of
history emeritus, is the author of a new
book about Col. David B. Harris, a
Louisa County, Virginia, native who at-
tended West Point before engaging in a
successful career as a military engineer.

Published by the McClure Press of
Verona, Va., The Education of Col.
David Bullock Harris is a collection of
Harris’ letters, primarily from his years
at West Point.

e Sarah K. Wiant, director of the
WA&L law library, is the co-author of a
new manual designed to provide a handy
reference to questions about the use and
reproduction of copyrighted material.

The 68-page manual, entitled
Copyright Handbook, was published for
the American Association of Law
Libraries by Fred B. Rothman & Co. of
Littleton, Colo.

Wiant is co-author of the publication
with James S. Heller, director of the law
library at the University of Idaho.

In addition to the copyright questions
surrounding duplication of printed
materials, the handbook addresses similar
issues involved with the duplication of

29

Lee Gazette

microforms, videotapes, transparencies
and even motion pictures.

e Art history professor Gerard
Maurice Doyon was the featured speaker
for the annual ‘‘Little Council Dinner’’
of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in
Richmond in January. Doyon’s slide-
lecture was entitled ‘‘Humor in French
Art.’’

¢ Joseph Martinez, assistant professor
of drama, choreographed the duels in
Hamlet for the Wisdom Bridge Theatre
Company of Chicago. The production
opened January 31.

In pre-performance publicity, Chicago
Magazine wrote: ‘‘Joseph Martinez is the
only outstanding stage fight
choreographer Chicago has ever
produced.”’

Martinez, who received the B.A.
degree from Illinois Wesleyan University
and a diploma from the Royal Academy
of Dramatic Arts in London, is the
author of a book on stage combat entitl-
ed Combat Mime.

¢ Roger Jeans, associate professor of
history, was the program chairman for
the 24th annual meeting of the Southeast
Conference Association for Asian Studies
in January at Duke University.

In addition to chairing the overall
program, Jeans delivered a paper for a
session on ‘‘Approaches to Teaching the
Pacific War.’’ Jeans is director of W&L’s
East Asian Studies Program.

e A recently published volume about
Spain’s transition from dictatorship to
democracy includes a section written by a
Washington and Lee professor.

H. Laurent Boetsch Jr., assistant pro-
fessor of romance languages, contributed
a section on church-state relations to the
book entitled Politics and Change in
Spain, published in January by Praeger
Press.

The 225-page volume represents an
analysis of the various political actors
and their roles in the transition that took
place between 1976 and 1984.

In his section, Boetsch traces the rela-
tionship between the Catholic Church in
Spain and the government since the
Vatican II Council of 1966. He
demonstrates how the church, once an al-
ly of the Franco regime, became a
leading opponent of the dictatorship in
its final stages and then played a vital
role in preparing the current democratic
constitution, which officially separates
church and state.

30

 

Stuart

* An article by William W. Pusey III,
dean emeritus, appears in the Winter
1985 edition of Virginia Cavalcade, a
quarterly publication of the Virginia State
Library.

Pusey’s article traces the Virginia tour
of English actress Lillie Langtry in the
1880s.

e Dabney Stuart, professor of
English, is the featured writer in the cur-
rent issue of Poets in the South, publish-
ed by the University of South Florida.

The issue begins with an
autobiographical sketch in which Stuart
recalls some early memories of Rich-

mond, where he was born, and includes
selections from each of his major
volumes of poetry.

The portion of the issue devoted to
Stuart concludes with a critical essay of
his work by Barbara Fialkowski, a poet
and director of the creative writing pro-
gram at Bowling Green State University.

Fialkowski compares Stuart to
Wallace Stevens in requiring of the reader
a ‘‘disciplined listening’’ and in seeing
‘*the creative work as reason for celebra-
tion.’’ But she finds in Stuart’s poetry a
warmer tone, a more conversational
voice, and a greater willingness to em-
brace all of human experience.

Stuart, who holds degrees from
Davidson and Harvard, joined the W&L
faculty in 1965. He is the author of seven
volumes of poetry, a critical study of
Nabakov, and a growing body of short
fiction. In 1979 he was one of the reci-
pients of the first Governor’s Awards for
contributions to the creative arts in
Virginia.

e Louis W. Hodges, director of
Washington and Lee’s program in ap-
plied ethics and professor of religion at
W&L, was the featured speaker at a
meeting of the Orange County Chapter
of the International Association for
Financial Planning recently in Los
Angeles.

Hodges spoke on ‘‘Ethics for Finan-
cial Planners—Dealing with Your Clients
in a Fiduciary Relationship.”’

 

Martinez demonstrates a sword-fighting technique to a drama class in which students have been
learning the choreography of fight scenes in Shakespeare plays.

 

by Mark Mandel

Sports Information Director

W&L Track Team Captures Another Title

Wrestlers, Swimmers Post Winning Seasons; Basketball Is Second in ODAC

Quietly, Washington and Lee’s run-
ners, jumpers, and throwers have become
the University’s most successful athletes,
putting together a remarkable string of
achievements.

W&L’s outdoor track and field team
went undefeated and won the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference champion-
ship last spring. The cross country run-
ners captured the ODAC crown in the
fall. And this winter the indoor track
team completed the impressive sweep by
claiming its second consecutive ODAC
trophy.

The Generals have won not because
the teams have been filled with individual
stars, but because track coach Norris
Aldridge and cross country mentor Dick
Miller have built programs that are based
on an uncommon concept in these tradi-
tionally individually-oriented sports. They
stress ‘‘teamwork,’’ both in practice and
in competition.

**! think we emphasize team effort
more than most programs do,’’ says
Aldridge, who has been named the
ODAC’s ‘‘Coach of the Year’’ each time
W&L’s track and field teams have won
the ODAC championship. ‘‘We do not
rely On any One person to win; rather, we
expect all our athletes to work hard, not
only to improve themselves, but to help
their teammates.”’

Because team points are awarded for
the top three places in dual meets and the
top six places in championship meets,
there is a premium on multiple finishes.
Relays are also an important source of
team points. Therefore, teams with depth
and balance have the better chance of
Winning.

W&L trackmen are urged to reach
their potential. At the same time, the best
of the athletes are encouraged to set a
Pace that will benefit their teammates in
training and in races. Quite often, they
are also asked to compete in events that
are not their best distances in order to
‘score more team points.

Clearly, that philosophy has worked.
The indoor track team’s victory this
winter, for example, resulted when 13 in-
dividuals scored team points and the
Generals won all three relays. In nine

a.

P Tr - =
y ae - -
~~ ae <P aay _ ———
ee I -
_ Bing Sry, . -

'

 

Pembroke, who won the ODAC 880-yard indoor title, finishes first in an outdoor event.

events W&L had 19 finishes in the top
six places.

“*We win because we have the best
overall depth. We have individual cham-
pions, but we also score a lot of team
points from our second, third, fourth,
fifth, and sixth athletes. Those people are
every bit as important to us as our cham-
pions,’’ says Aldridge, who has received
valuable assistance from both Joe

Freeland and formér Virginia track star
Steve Jefferson, now a W&L law student.
Mark Pembroke, a senior from
Milwaukee who won the 880-yard run, is
a recent convert to W&L’s track
philosophy. ‘‘I have never been much of
a team-oriented runner, but my ex-
periences at W&L have shown me that
teamwork not only is successful but is
also fun. There is a lot of fulfillment,

31

Sports Roundup

knowing that I am helping my teammates
while I improve myself,’’ he says.

Pembroke is the University’s record-
holder at 800 meters and is captain of the
cross country and track teams. Like most
of his fellow student-athletes, he decided
to enroll at W&L to take advantage of
the rich academic programs. When he ar-
rived in Lexington he found an athletic
situation that would enhance his educa-
tion while providing an outlet for his
natural athletic competitiveness.

‘*I couldn’t be happier with my deci-
sion to come here. I have received a great
education and was able to participate in
outstanding track and cross country pro-
grams,’’ he says.

Pembroke is an English major and
plans to pursue a career as a writer
following his June graduation. He may,
if time permits, even coach a little. But
first he and his teammates have a good
chance at winning another ODAC cham-
pionship this spring.

a ee

In other winter sports, meantime, the
Washington and Lee basketball team ad-
vanced to the semifinals of the ODAC
championship tournament before losing
to regular-season champion Maryville,
60-56.

The defeat culminated a frustrating
season for head coach Verne Canfield,
who saw his team’s record fall below
.500 for the first time in five years and
only the second time in 18 years. The
Generals finished with a 13-14 overall
record and 7-9 in the ODAC.

Leading the way for W&L were
seniors Scott Shannon and Lex
Fitzenhagen. Shannon, a forward from
Norfolk, was the team’s most consistent
performer, averaging 12.7 points and 7.6
rebounds per contest. Fitzenhagen, a
guard from Dallas, provided the
firepower down the stretch by scoring 19
points a game in the last 12 contests.

‘*Although I am not pleased with the
outcome this year, | am proud of all the
players,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘Everyone work-
ed hard and gave his best effort. They
have no reason to be ashamed.’’

In early March the W&L swimmers

32

 

Jeff Dixon concluded a strong career.

were still at work, preparing for the
NCAA Division III Championships
scheduled for mid-March in Atlanta. The
Generals finished the dual-meet season
with a 7-1-1 record, losing only to Divi-
sion I power James Madison. W&L
swimmers will compete in 10 events in
the national championships.

The Generals will be represented in
the 400-yard medley relay and the 400-
and 800-yard freestyle relays. Junior Tim
Stanford of lowa City will swim in the
50- and 100-yard freestyle and the 100-
and 200-yard butterfly events. Senior
Bobby Pearson of Louisville will compete
in the 50-yard free. Freshman Eric
Sullivan of Miami will swim the 500- and
1650-yard freestyles.

‘*We ought to go into this meet in
good shape physically and emotionally,’’
said head aquatics coach Page Remillard,
who led W&L to a 15th-place finish in
last year’s NCAA championships.

The W&L wrestlers, under head coach
Gary Franke, completed a fourth con-
secutive winning season by compiling a
12-2-1 record. Like the track and cross
country teams, the wrestlers have been
successful because of their balance. ‘‘We
were fortunate to have strong wrestlers
from top to bottom,’’ says Franke.

‘*l am very happy for the departing
seniors who worked hard and gave W&L

Lex Fitzenhagen (30) and Scott Shannon (54)

four consecutive winning seasons. They
should be extremely proud of what they
have accomplished.’’

One senior whose performance was
particularly noteworthy was 190-pounder
Jeff Dixon of Duncan, Okla., who finish-
ed his career in style. Despite undergoing
arthroscopic knee surgery early in the
season, Dixon led the team by going
undefeated in dual meets and winning
two tournaments in his weight class.

Chapter News

Atlanta Chapter Leads the Way with Lee Birthday Party

 

ATLANTA—The Atlanta Chapter’s Lee Birthday Party included the ATLANTA—Beverly M. DuBose Jr. (second from right) discusses his

Board of Trustees and other University officials. From left, Alumni Civil War collection with (from left) Trustee Royce Hough, ’59;
Association President Charles Hurt, ’ 59; Trustee Hayne Hipp, ’62; Trustee Cal Thomas, ’38; Trustee Emeritus Waller Dudley, ’43, ’47L;
Trustee Bo DuBose, ’62; and Rector James Ballengee, ’48L. and Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the law school.

 

ATLANTA—Among the guests for the Lee’s Birthday Party were ATLANTA—Bo DuBose, ’62, (right) shows a portion of the Civil

(from left) Joe Fant, ’82; Michael (Thunder) Thornton, ’70, 78L; and War collection that he helped his father collect to Eleanor and Ross
Randy Hutto, ’70. Milthiser.
Following the lead of the Atlanta Chapter, Washington The Rockbridge Chapter celebrated the occasion with a
and Lee alumni gathered in several cities during mid-January dinner at the Lexington Country Club on Jan. 18. Greg Raetz,
to celebrate the birth of Robert E. Lee on January 19. *71, the chapter president, presided over the event, which
Although the Atlanta Chapter has held Lee Birthday featured a presentation entitled ‘‘Lee and the Ladies’’ by
celebrations for a number of years, this year’s event was par- W&L history professor Taylor Sanders. In addition to toasting
ticularly noteworthy since it coincided with a meeting of the Gen. Lee, the group sang a chorus of Happy Birthday to
W&L Board of Trustees in Atlanta. Rupert N. Latture, ’15, who turned 93 that day.
The result was the largest gathering of W&L alumni away The Baltimore Chapter held its birthday party at
from Lexington in recent memory. The Trustees and members L’Hirondelle Club where a ragtime band helped set the festive
Of the | niversity’s administration were among the 400 alumni mood. The Louisville Chapter staged a cocktail party at the
and friends of the University in attendance on Jan. 18 at the Louisville Country Club on Jan. 23.
Atlanta home of Trustee Bo DuBose, ’62. In Raleigh, approximately 70 alumni and friends met at the
Meanwhile, similar celebrations were held in Lexington, home of Mr. and Mrs. Gregory B. Crampton, ’69, on Jan.
Baltimore. Louisville, and Raleigh. 26. Crampton is president of the Eastern North Carolina Chapter.

33

Chapter News

 

ATLANTA—Enjoying the hospitality at the Atlanta party are (from
left) Tommy Fechtel, ’70; Diane Fechtel; Mary Goehring; and Bob
Goehring, ’72.

 

ATLANTA—The two newest Washington and Lee trustees attended
their first meeting in January. From left, Eileen DuBose, Trustee Bo
DuBose, ’62; Anna Kate Hipp; and Trustee W. Hayne Hipp, ’62.

Before the Lee Birthday celebrations in January, several
chapters found the Christmas holidays an appropriate time to
renew acquaintances. For instance, the Middle Tennessee
Chapter met with alumni from Virginia, North Carolina,
Sewanee, Princeton, Harvard, and Yale for a ‘‘Toys of
Christmas’’ party at Cheekwood’s Botanic Hall in Nashville.

Maynard Turk, ’52, a member of the Alumni Board, spoke
to the Delaware Chapter’s holiday smoker at the Radisson
Hotel in Wilmington while the Cleveland Chapter invited both
current and prospective students to a Christmas luncheon at
the Union Club.

Other recent chapter activities:

ST. LOUIS. Members of the St. Louis Chapter participated in
an ‘‘Old Dominion Night’’ at the Cheshire Inn on Jan. 5.

PHILADELPHIA. Washington and Lee Rector James M.
Ballengee was the featured speaker for the Philadelphia
Chapter’s annual alumni luncheon Jan. 23 at The Racquet
Club. Martin F. Bowers, ’80, chapter president, organized the
luncheon.

MONTGOMERY. W&L President John D. Wilson was the
featured speaker for a Jan. 29 meeting of the Montgomery
Chapter at the Governor’s House Motor Hotel. Mike Jenkins,
64, chapter president, presided over the event, which was at-
tended by approximately 10 prospective students.

34

 

ie “ae Fo a

ATLANTA—Taking part in the birthday festivities were (from left)
Mrs. John Cheatham of Macon, Ga.; John Elrod, dean of the Col-
lege; John H. (Jake) Cheatham Jr., ’46; and Trustee Joe Keelty, °44,
of Baltimore. |

 

ATLANTA—The Atlanta party was one of the largest, if not the
largest, gathering of W&L alumni outside Lexington since the Gator
Bowl. Among the guests were (from left) Whitlow Wyatt, ’70; Chuck
Kuhn, ’70; Bill Tyler, ’69; and Don Childress, °74.

 

ATLANTA—James Whitehead, secretary of the University, thanks the
hostess for the Lee Birthday Party, Eileen DuBose. The annual event
has been held at the DuBose home for many years.

 

ATLANTA—From left, Dick Sessoms, director of alumni programs,
Mrs. Betty Hollister; Rufus Safford, ’58; Mary Safford; Trustee Tom
Branch, ’58, ’60L; John Hollister, ’58; and Jack Stackhouse, °55.

 

ROCKBRIDGE Getting together at the Lexington Country Club
were (from le ft) Chris Alderson, ’80L; Henry Foresman, "48L; and

Hal St. Clair, ’73L.

 

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—From left, Bob Womble, ’79L;
Ted Vaden, ’69; Betsy Vaden; and Greg Crampton, ’69, president of
the Eastern North Carolina Chapter.

 

MONTGOMER Y—Among those in attendance at the Montgomery
meeting were (from left) Chuck Staples, ’67; Tabor Novak, '66, ’69L;
Phil Sellers, ’75; and their wives.

MOBILE and PENSACOLA. About 30 members of the Pen-
sacola Chapter chartered a bus to join the Mobile Chapter to
hear Dr. Wilson ’s remarks at a joint meeting of the chapters
On Jan. 30 at the Mobile Bay home of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Taylor Morrissette in Point Clear, Ala. The Morrissettes are
the parents of Clifton Morrissette, ’83, chapter president.
Morrissette and Miner Harrell, ’71, president of the Pensacola

Chapter, both addressed the gathering of about 100 alumni
and friends.

CHATTANOOGA. Buddy Atkins, ’68, met with the Chat-
tanooga Chapter at the Mountain City Club on Feb. 7. Allen

C. Brown. ‘72, is the chapter president and arranged the evening.

JACKSONVILLE. William Gatlin III, ’71, president of the
Jacksonville Chapter, presided over the annual meeting and
elections on Feb. 7 at the Seminole Club. The new officers

<i

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE—W&L Athletic Director Bill McHenry, °54, (center)
talks with Charles Turner, °40, (left) and Doug Chase, ’74.

 

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—Renewing acquaintances at the
Eastern North Carolina meeting were (from left) Bruce Whipple, ’80;
Bob Womble, ’79L; David Denny, ’76; Greg Crampton, ’69; Ranee
Singleton; and Woody Woodard, ’83.

> =

:
KA
e pa

Bi

) Zit
MOBILE/PENSACOLA—Prominent among alumni attending the

combined meeting of Mobile and Pensacola chapters were Wes Pipes,
’64, of Mobile and Charlie Sherrill, ’60, of Pensacola.

are: Sidney S. Simmons, ’80, president; James N. Overton,
’75, vice president; and B. Lamar Winegeart III, ’73,
secretary-treasurer.

SPARTANBURG. W&L President Wilson continued his
speaking tour of alumni chapters by addressing the Spartan-
burg Chapter on Feb. 19 at the New Carolina Country Club.
The meeting was presided over by Arthur Cleveland, ’71, the
chapter president, who introduced several special guests, in-
cluding high school senior Scott Yates, one of W&L’s Early
Decision admissions, and his parents.

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT. From Spartanburg, Presi-
dent Wilson moved to Greenville on Feb. 20 for a meeting of
the South Carolina Piedmont Chapter at the Greenville Coun-
ty Museum of Art. The-guests were treated to a tour of the
Andrew Wyeth Collection with Mary Lawson, wife of Dr. Jeff

35

Chapter News

 

4

.
SPARTANBURG—The Spartanburg Chapter’s president, Arthur
Cleveland, ’71, (right) with a future student, Scott Yates (center), who |
was accepted under the Early Decision plan and came to the Spartan-
burg gathering with his parents and a friend.

A

 

Vie
wy «lh we > bos
‘f -, \ al s%

MOBILE/PENSACOLA—Mobile Chapter President Clifton Mor-
rissette, ’83, (left), his date, Melissa, and his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
H. Taylor Morrissette, hosted the joint chapter gathering in Mobile.

 

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—Bill Wells, ’75, and Sharon
Bumegarner were among the guests at the South Carolina Piedmont
Chapter’s meeting at the Greenville County Museum of Art.

inf

 

CHATTANOOGA—Meeting in Chattanooga were (from left) Allen
Brown, ’72, president of the chapter; Tommy Lupton, ’51; Sam
Miles, ’51; Roberta Miles; and Wes Brown, ’51.

a x . és . 2 vf yi 4
ky . = td
Bie
vee
+ : a
\
‘. H

yA
a

 

a SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT-—Shown in front of one of the
works of art in the Greenville County Museum of Art are (from left)
Gary Pouch, ’78; Julia Breland; Cobb Alexander, ’77; and Eloise

Alexander.

-

A
oS
-

.

@
a
ye
.
Ss -
Pee to
ed
ive

*
ao.

 

SPARTANBURG—Guests at the Spartanburg Chapter meeting (from
left) Leighton Barton; Henry Barton, ’50; Pat Bain; and Don Bain,
'49L, heard remarks by W&L President John D. Wilson.

Lawson, ’68, serving as tour guide. The chapter’s president,
Lang Donkle, ’74, presided over the meeting and the election
of new officers: E. Phifer Helms, ’74, president; Alfred B.
Robinson Jr., ’77, vice president; G. Mackey Grimball, 83,
secretary-treasurer; and D. M. Einstein, ’83, chairman of the

 

alumni admissions program. SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—The current and former

BIRMINGHAM. Dr. John M. Evans, professor of English at presidents of the Piedmont Chapter get together at the chapter’s

W&L he f d ker f z b. 22 . Th meeting in February. From left, new president Phifer Helms, °74; Pol-
hares lbe pattie ther teisaalepshseh ae Poe P ly Helms; former president Lang Donkle, ’74; and Ellen Donkle.

Club in Birmingham.

36

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms _ All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

ic

 

 

1928

ROGER J. HALLER has retired from DuPont Co.
after 42 years in research and plant supervisory
positions. Haller spends his time gardening, play-
ing golf and enjoying retirement.

GERALD F. Horne has been made an honorary
member of the board of directors of the Alexan-
dria Chapter of the American Red Cross and a
member of Alexandria Hospital Corp.

1930

GERARD E. GRASHORN, prominent attorney and
partner of the Chicago firm of Winston & Strawn,
retired in 1981 after more than 50 years of prac-
tice and almost 10 years as a clerical typist during
his summer vacations for a total of nearly 55 years
with the same firm. He became a partner in 1943
and graduated to senior partner in the mid-1960s,
a position he held until retirement. Since retire-
ment Grashorn has continued to do arbitration
work for the American Arbitration Association.
He and Mrs. Grashorn travel widely and often
spend the winter in Barbados.

Vircit C. Jones, retired from the National
Aeronautics & Space Administration since 1976,
has published nine books of historical narrative
and The Log of Apollo II, the first official govern-
ment account of the moon landing.

LEON R. ROBISON JR. went On a peace mission to
Russia sponsored by The Friends Service Commit-
tee and The Fellowship of Reconciliation. Robison
met with the Russian peace group in 10 cities in-
cluding Moscow, Volgograd and Rostov.

1931

EUGENE JOHNSON, secretary of the Waynesboro
Rotary Club for the past six years, was named a
Paul Harris Fellow by the club last year.

1935

GEORGE E. SHorrt has retired from E.I. DuPont
and spends his time working for his church, play-
ing golf and gardening.

DONALD R. WALLIS has resigned as chairman of
the board of the First Bank of Madison, Ind., and
is slowly phasing out of his position as publisher
of one daily and four weekly newspapers.

1936

Dr. KENNETH G. MACDONALD closed his surgical
practice after undergoing his second coronary
bypass. He now works part time in administrative
medical work in Charleston, W.Va.

1938

JOHN E. NEILL serves as program chairman for the
Weymouth Center, a cultural center in Southern
Pines, N.C.

37

Class Notes

ALPHONSE J. SHERMAN will retire in May from the
University of Bridgeport where he has taught for
more than 38 years.

1939

JAMES W. FISHEL is president of Fairfax Adver-
tising Agency in New York City.

W. Bryce Rea Jr. is still actively practicing as
senior partner in the Washington, D.C., firm of
Rea, Cross and Auchinclass.

1941

Although retired, RICHARD W. SMITH stays busy
serving as counsel to his law firm, shooting skeet,
float fishing the Shenandoah and James Rivers,
attending to duties as chairman of the board of
First Virginia Bank of Augusta and as president
of King’s Daughters Hospital. He is also a trustee
of Stuart Hall School and a member of Trinity
Episcopal Church. He lives in Swoope, Va., near
Staunton.

W. Bryce REA Jr. (See 1939.)

1942

WALTER C. ABERG Jr., has retired from the oil,
real estate and insurance business and now lives
in Cave Creek, Ariz.

CHARLES M. LANDRUM Jr. has just begun a four-
year term as chairman of the Kentucky Judicial
Retirement and Removal Commission, which is
considered a model for such organizations in the
United States.

C. LANE SARTOR recently enjoyed a mini-reunion
of alumni of the 1940’s era. The following attend-
ed: Robert Jeter, ’40; Henry Yonge, ’42; Lane Sar-
tor, ’42; Horace Jeter, ’42; Green Rives, ’42; Af-
ton Sartor, ’38; Jack Murrell, ’44; Haller Jackson
Jr., °44; Dick Eglin, ’44; John Jordan, ’44; and
their wives.

RAYMOND A. SEARFOSS JR., has retired from Aet-
na Life and Casualty after 38 years.

1943

BARTON W. Morris Jr., formerly publisher, presi-
dent and chairman of the board of the Roanoke
Times & World-News, has retired from his recent
position in Landmark Communications, Inc. He
plans to remain with Landmark as a consultant.

ARTHUR B. SCHARFF continues to work part time
for the Chamber of Commerce in Charlottesville,
Va. His duties include making recordings for the
blind and translating and writing for the Univer-
sity of Virginia’s library.

PauL M. SHUFORD (See 1948.)
38

1944

MARRIAGE; Dr. HAVEN W. MANKIN and Shirley
Patrick on June 26, 1984, in Oklahoma City.

ROGER M. Soru retired Oct. 1, 1984, as president
of Lake City Industries, Inc.

1945

CHARLES S. ROWE was elected in October to the
board of directors of the Southern Newspaper
Publishers Association. He also serves as first vice
chairman of the Associated Press. Rowe is editor
and co-publisher of The Free Lance-Star in
Fredericksburg, Va. He is a Trustee of Washington
and Lee.

1946

Louts R. HAHN Jr. retired from a long career with
the FBI and is now with Mobil Corp. in New York
City. He lives in Briarcliff Manor.

REV. RoBERT S. RICHARDSON is a hospital chaplain
at the Texas Medical Center in Houston and plans
to complete his doctorate soon.

WILLIAM A. WARDE retired from the Navy in 1965
and is now in the insurance business with John B.
Stoudemire & Associates in Jacksonville, Fla.

1948

JOHN E. SCHEIFLY has become a member of the
law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius. He works
from the firm’s Los Angeles office.

PAUL M. SHUFORD was recently elected a member
of the Virginia State Bar Council representing the
13th District.

1950

FRANK LOVE Jr., president of the State Bar of
Georgia in 1982-83, was elected president of the
Georgia Bar Foundation in 1984.

OLIVER M. MENDELL has been re-elected chairman
of The Fifth Avenue Association. As chairman of
the USO, Mendell organized a successful fund-
raising dinner at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel,
featuring Jimmy Stewart as guest of honor.

GEORGE H. PIERSON Jr. is staff radiologist at
Moses Cove Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. He is
active in community activities as president of the
PTA and a member of his church finance com-
mittee. He is also active in the Republican Party
in North Carolina.

1951

JAMES C. FENHAGEN II is the president of the
General Theological Seminary in New York City.
Last fall the seminary was honored by having
South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu as a

visiting professor. Fenhagen and his wife accom-
panied Tutu to Oslo when Tutu received the Nobel
Prize.

FRANK LOvE Jr. (See 1950.)

1952

Boyp H. LEYBURN Jr. was transferred to Birm-
ingham, Ala., last year to manage that city’s
downtown Sears, Roebuck & Co.

JUDGE ROBERT B. MuRDOCcK has retired as an ad-
ministrative law judge in Roanoke after 33 years
of federal service.

ROBERT D. SCHENKEL became dean and rector of
The Cathedral Church of the Nativity in
Bethlehem, Pa., in October 1984.

1953

JUDGE HuGH S. GLICKSTEIN has been named the
R. David Thomas Child Advocate of the Year in
Florida’s intercoastal division of the Children’s
Home Society. Glickstein initiated and nurtured
the Florida Bar’s special committee for the needs
of children and urged the American Bar Associa-
tion to start a similar organization. He now chairs
both committees. He is also a member of the
Governor’s Constituency for Children.

1954

JAMES D. BONEBRAKE retired as a general agent
of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. on
Dec. 31, 1984. He lives in Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

GORDON FISHER III has become a sales associate
with Howard Hanna Co. Realtors of Pittsburgh,
Pa.

PauL M. MASLANSKY is currently producing the
movie Police Academy II, a sequel to his earlier
hit, in Los Angeles. He plans to film Police
Academy II1 in Toronto in June. Maslansky lives
in Malibu, Calif.

1955

KENNETH L. ABERNATHY has retired from the
Navy after 26 years of service. He and his wife will
divide their time between homes in Pensacola and
Naples, Fla.

CHARLES K. SLICK has joined the faculty of the
Chesapeake Academy in Irvington, Va., where he
is teaching U.S. history, world geography, life
science and earth science.

JupGE HuGu S. GLICKSTEIN (See 1953.)

1956

Victor R. Bonp retired from NASA’s Johnson
Space Center in July 1984, after 25 years of ser-
vice. Bond is now a senior staff engineer with

 

K. Rogers, el)

McDonnell Douglas Co. of Houston, Texas. He
is also a lecturer in astrodynamics at the Univer-
sity of Houston.

GeorGceE C. MILLER JR. is a specialist in commer-
cial real estate services and office investments for
SEG/Corrigan, Inc., in San Diego. In his spare
time, Miller works as an actor, and his latest role
is that of a U.S. immigration officer in the forth-
coming television production of James Michener’s
novel, Space. Miller once portrayed a doctor on
the Ben Casey television series.

KeITH RocerRS, formerly vice president of cor-
porate affairs at U.S. Tobacco, retired from the
company on Jan. 1, 1985. He is currently resear-
ching a novel concerning the influence of the con-
sumer movement on American politics. Rogers was
responsible for the corporation’s public and
political relations and had been chairman of U.S.
Tobacco’s political action and corporate contribu-
tion committees.

1957

DoNALD C. SPANN founded Span-America Medical
Systems in 1974 and made the company public in
June 1983.

1958

Pace D. CRANFORD is general counsel to Sovran
Bank and its parent holding company, Sovran
Financial Corp., headquartered in Norfolk, Va.
Cranford manages the corporate legal department
of 10 lawyers with offices in Norfolk and Rich-
mond. Cranford lives in Virginia Beach with his
wife, Ginny, and two daughters.

RopGer P. Doy_e is chief executive officer with
Allied Humble Bank in Humble, Texas.

VERNON W. HOLLEMAN Jr., president of Qualified
Pension/Profit Sharing consultants, has been ap-
pointed to the advisory board of the Washington
(D.C.) Mutual Investors Fund.

In May 1984, James E. Lipscoms III and a cousin
formed the Lipscomb-Toledano, Inc., an insurance
company, in Greenville, S.C. The firm specializes
in individual life and employee benefit plans.
Lipscomb has been a life and qualifying member
of the Million Dollar Round Table for 25 years.
His son, James E. Lipscomb IV, ’83, joined the
firm last summer.

JAMEs W. VANCLEAVE III has been named direc-
tor of media for Proctor & Gamble. In his new
Position, VanCleave is responsible for purchasing
all of the company’s television, print and radio

advertising.
1960

Wituiam W. SCHAEFER, president of Central
Woodwork, Inc., of Memphis, has been elected
President of the National Sash and Door Jobbers

 

DROP IN!

Don’t forget to drop in at Washington
and Lee for the 1985 Class Reunions on
May 9, 10, and 11. The reunion classes this
year are 1935, 1940, 1945, 1950, 1955, 1960,
1965, 1970, 1975, and 1980. If you have not
already received information on your re-
union, contact the Alumni Office.

 

 

 

Association. Schaefer previously served as direc-
tor, chairman of the convention committee, and
general chairman of the committees of the
NSDJA.

1961

GEorRGE E. Gans III is president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Paul Semonin Co. Realtors in
Louisville, Ky.

WILLIAM H. HEALD joined the Goodrich and Sher-
wood Co., human resources consultants, as direc-
tor of outplacement services in New York City.

1962

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. E. WARREN MILLS, a son,
Foy Fitzhugh Mills II, on Nov. 1, 1983.

G. T. DuNLop EcKER was recently named presi-
dent and chief executive officer of The Washington
Hospital Center in Washington, D.C. He had
previously served as executive vice president.
Ecker, his wife, and two children reside in
Bethesda, Md.

Dr. JosepH L. GOLDSTEIN and a colleague at the
University of Texas Health Science Center were
awarded the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize by Col-
umbia University. The $22,000 award recognizes
outstanding research in biology or biochemistry.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM M. SCHILDT, a
daughter, Katharine Clark, on Sept. 26, 1984, in
Hagerstown, Md.

STANLEY A. FINK has been appointed to a four-
year term as township attorney in Clark, N.J.

MartTIn E. GALT III has been appointed corporate
secretary of Centerre Trust Co. of St. Louis, Mo.

1965

MARK M. APPLEFELD is an associate professor of
medicine in the division of cardiology at the
University of Maryland Hospital. Applefeld is also
serving as president-elect of the Maryland
Affiliate-American Heart Association. He and his
wife live in Baltimore with their two children,
Lewis and Grace.

Dr. GoRDON L. ARCHER is an associate professor
of medicine and microbiology at the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia.

ANDREW C. KILPATRICK is a business reporter for
the Birmingham Post-Herald. He lives with his
wife and two children in Birmingham.

S. REED PAYNTER has been assigned marketing
manager of the Dupont Toray Co. in Tokyo.

NORMAN YOERG Jr., recently served as chairman
of a task force which prepared an American Bar
Association monograph on interlocking direc-
tories. He has been listed in Who’s Who in
American Law.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. MERCER K. CLARKE, a
son, James Wylly, on Sept. 12, 1984, in Miami.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. STEPHEN R. YANCEY, a
son, Stephen Richard III, on Nov. 9, 1984, in
Shreveport, La. Yancey is a partner in the
Shreveport law firm of Cook, Yancey, King and
Galloway.

STEPHEN S. CASE is lecturing on community pro-
perty and estate planning while also practicing law
in Phoenix and Sun City, Ariz.

KEMBLE WHITE III, a lawyer in Dallas, recently
participated in the organization of the Midway Na-
tional Bank of which he is a director.

1967

GARRY APGAR is the author of a story in the
February 1985 issue of Art in America. Apgar cur-
rently holds a Kress Fellowship to the Swiss In-
stitute for the Study of Art in Zurich. His article
is entitled ‘‘The Age of Diderot?’’ and examines
two French exhibitions commemorating the 200th
anniversary of Diderot’s death.

E. ALAN CATMUR is an account executive with
Robinson-Humphrey/American Express, Inc., in
Memphis, Tenn.

J. G. BLatneE Ewinc III has joined James D.
Awad, ’67, in Awad’s investment firm of BMI
Capital. Though BMI Capital is a New York firm,
Ewing remains in Charleston, S.C.

THOMAS J. HARDIN JR. has been named vice presi-
dent and director of research for Portfolio Capital
Management, Inc., a registered investment ad-
visory firm in Charlotte, N.C. He had been a
senior analyst with Interstate Securities and NCNB
Corp.

Guy M. STERLING JR. is writing for California
Cards, now based in Dallas. He is also a salesman
for Guy Sterling Co. He lives in Dallas.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. W. Dopp Brown, a
daughter, Elizabeth Margaret, on March 21, 1984,

39

Class Notes

in Chicago. Brown is an executive editor with
Commerce Clearinghouse, Inc. He also is author
of an article, ‘‘Daniel Boone and the Saltmakers:
Fresh Perspectives,’’ which appeared in the
1984-85 winter edition of the Register of the Ken-
tucky Historical Society.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ALLEN B. Craic III, a
daughter, Sarah Catherine, on Nov. 2, 1984, in
Houston.

JEFFREY T. BRIGGs is a vice president in the finan-
cial services group for Manufacturers Hanover
Trust in New York. In 1982 he married Miriam
Vializ and took up residence in Hopewell Junc-
tion in Dutchess County, N.Y.

JAMES J. DAWSON is completing his sixth year as
treasurer and secretary to the board of trustees for
The Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J.
He also teaches a course on the Constitution and
coaches lacrosse. Dawson is a trustee of the Stuart
Country Day School, the Delaware Valley United
Way, and several other non-profit organizations
in the Princeton area.

RICHARD T. DouGutiE III has his own law prac-
tice in Memphis, specializing in bankruptcy work.
He and his wife, J.J., have three children: Oliver,
10; Katherine, 7; and Frances, 1.

Dr. GEORGE J. DOVER is an associate professor
at The Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine’s Department of Pediatrics. He is a cell
biologist and is conducting research in sickle cell
anemia. Dover, his wife, Barbara, and children,
Liz, 12, Jay, 8, and Katie, 5, live in Baltimore.

KAZIMIERZ J. HERCHOLD has been appointed resi-
dent director for Rank Xerox, Ltd., in India. He
will also serve as an alternate director of Modi
Xerox, Ltd., and Indian Xerographic Services,
Ltd., representing the interests of Rank Xerox on
both boards. Modi Xerox, Ltd., will manufacture
and market Xerox copiers in India. Indian
Xerographic Services exports Xerox copiers
primarily to Eastern bloc countries. Herchold join-
ed Xerox in 1975 and most recently was a general
manager for Xerox North Africa operations. He,
his wife, Evelyn, and sons, Jan and Karl, live in
New Delhi.

R. REYNOLDS LOGAN has retired as a stockbroker
from J. C. Bradford and Co. in Louisville. He is
spending his time playing squash, tennis, bridge
and backgammon.

MIKE E. Miles has returned to the graduate
business school at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill as the Foundation Professor of Ur-
ban Development.

STEVEN R. SAUNDERS moved his firm, Saunders
and Co., domestic and international public affairs
consultants, into a newly purchased building in
Alexandria, Va., in Febrary 1985. He was recent-

40

ly named a contributing editor of Japan Times,
the oldest and largest English language newspaper
in Japan. Saunders also was elected to the advisory
board of Georgetown University’s National Center
for Export-Import Studies.

JosEPH G. SEay left his partnership in Peat, Mar-
wick, Mitchell and Co., to form American Sun
Holding Co. and to purchase American Sun Life
Insurance Co. of Winter Park, Fla. He is executive
vice president, chief financial officer and a direc-
tor of American Sun. Seay also maintains an in-
surance consulting practice in Jacksonville, where
he continues to live.

J. OAKLEY SEIBERT is a partner in the law firm of
Rice, Hannis and Douglas. He is also city attorney
for Martinsburg, W.Va., and a director of the Old
National Bank of Martinsburg.

WILLIAM M. ScuiLpt (See 1964.)

1969

MARRIAGE; JERALD L. PERLMAN and Francine
McElvey on May 8, 1984, in Shreveport, La.
Perlman is a partner in the law firm of Walker,
Tooke, Grubb, Perlman and Lyons.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JORGE E. EstRADA M, a
son, Juan Ignacio, on Sept. 18, 1984, in Houston.
Estrada M has been appointed president of the
drilling services group for Geosource. He manages
the firm’s seismic operations in Latin America.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THOMAS W. MULLENIX,
a daughter, Lindsay Blaine, on Aug. 28, 1984, in
Riva, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOSEPH C. WICH JR., a
daughter, Virginia Elizabeth, on Dec. 9, 1984, in
Baltimore.

JOSEPH T. CHADWICK Jr. is vice president for
public services at Security First Group, an annui-
ty marketing and administration firm. He lives in
Villanova, Pa., with his wife, Jolynn, and
daughters, Tracey, Kelly, and Becky.

GREGORY E. PARKER has added the insurance in-
dustry’s Chartered Financial Consultant (ChFC)
degree to the Chartered Life Underwriter designa-
tion he earned in 1981. He has been a special agent
for Northwestern Mutual Life for 10 years. Parker,
his wife, Loretta, and children, Matthew and Mary
Kathryn, live in Winston-Salem, N.C.

ROBERT W. WIPFLER and his wife, Alice, now own
and will be directing the Kingswood Camp for
Boys on New Hampshire’s Lake Tarleton. He had
spent past summers as assistant director of another
camp in the region before purchasing Kingswood.
During the school year, they live in Bethesda, Md..,
with their sons, Robbie, 11, and Michael, 5.
Wipfler is a master history teacher on the middle
school level at the Landon School. He is varsity

baseball coach, eighth grade soccer coach, a class
advisor, and member of the admissions commit-
tee there. He also writes a regular column, ‘‘The
Voice of Amateur Baseball’’ for the newspaper
Collegiate Baseball.

STEPHEN S. CAseE (See 1966.)

KEMBLE WHITE III (See 1966.)

1970

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. WILLIAM A. WILSON Jr.,
a son, William Adams III, on March 20, 1984,
Wilson is medical director of emergency medical
services at the Memorial Hospital of Sweetwater
County in Rock Springs, Wyo.

C. GILBERT FRANK has been promoted to lieute-
nant colonel in the U.S. Army Medical Corp.

Lt. Lee B. MADINGER is chaplain of the Second
Battalion, 12th Marines, 3rd Marine Division, in
Okinawa, Japan.

1971

MARRIAGE: Bruce W. Derrick and Elise
Elisabeth Vaughn on May 5, 1984. Derrick is in-
volved in real estate development in the Houston
area through his firm, Derrick Interests, Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. HAROLD H. CATLIN, a son,
Davis Marshall, on Jan. 20, 1984, in Jacksonville,
Fla. Catlin is on the board of governors of the
Jacksonville Bar Association, president of Young
Lawyers of Jacksonville and treasurer of the
Jacksonville Association of Defense Counsel. The
Catlins live in Ponte Vedra, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RAYMOND D. COATES JR.,
a daughter, Lauren, on Nov. 29, 1984, in Berlin,
Md. She joins an older sister.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN R. HEATH, a
daughter, Katherine Mead, on Dec. 2, 1984. They
live in Herndon, Va. Heath is a member of the
Washington, D.C., Lacrosse Club in his spare
time.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Bruce C. LEE, 4
daughter, Christine Elizabeth, on Dec. 23, 1984.
Lee is a partner in the Philadelphia law firm of
Bolger, Picker & Weiner.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. SCHUYLER W. LININGER
Jr., a daughter, Corinne Bosch, on Dec. 21, 1984.
Lininger is a chiropractor in private practice in
Sandy, Ore., and teaches practical nutrition at
Western States Chiropractic College in Portland.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT G. WOODWARD,
a daughter, Julia Catherine, on March 28, 1984.
In June, Woodward rejoined the Atlanta law firm
of King and Spalding as a partner in the tax depart-

 

p. S. Trible Jr., ’71L

ment after resigning as the tax legislative counsel
with the U.S. Treasury Department.

Dr. MARVIN M. Brooke works in the University
of Washington’s department of rehabilitative
medicine. He and his wife, Kathleen, live in

Seattle.

STEPHEN H. KERKAM transferred to Bell Atlan-
ticom Systems, Inc., as a technical consultant
designing integrated voice and data communica-
tion systems for large business clients.

JoHn M. McCarbDELt JR. has been appointed dean
of academic planning and development at Ver-
mont’s Middlebury College, effective July 1, 1985.

Dr. THOMAS E. REYNOLDs is vice president of the
medical staff and medical director for the hospice
program in the Culpeper, Va., area.

PauL S. TRIBLE Jr., United States Senator from
Virginia, was recently selected to serve on the
Foreign Relations Committee. He was named by
his colleagues as the most promising new
Republican in the Senate in the April 23, 1983, edi-
tion of U.S. News and World Report.

James J. DAwson (See 1968.)

J. OAKLEY SEIBERT (See 1968.)

1972

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. BRUCE W. Cusson, a
daughter, Eryn Elizabeth, on March 20, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Louts W. SHROYER, a son,
Justin Edward, on Sept. 26, 1984.

Davip C. Futton is controller for Fentron
Building Products in Seattle, Wash. Fulton com-
pleted the Wharton MBA program and worked as
a CPA in San Francisco before joining the firm.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. E. MARSHALL BRADEN, a
daughter, Amanda Muir, on Oct. 26, 1984. Braden

is chief counsel of the Republican National
Committee.

BIRTH: Mr. anp Mrs. W. REVELL Lewis Ill, a
son, William Revell Lewis IV, on Sept. 29, 1984.

Gates G. BRELSFORD is now manager of planning
and budgets of Placer Development, Ltd.

JEFFREY C. Burris is a member of the law firm
of Burris, Burris & Morgerum in Indianapolis. His

area of practice includes real estate, insurance, and
8eneral civil law.

CHARLEs W. Dunn is vice president of Middle Ten-
nessee Associates, Inc. The company has opened
4 New division, MTA Distributors, which will be

a wholesale distributor for engines and construc-
tion equipment.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON was recently elected to the
Caddo Parish School Board and was reelected to
the board of deacons of the First Presbyterian
Church in Shreveport, La.

RONALD T. GOLD has joined the law firm of Alem-
bik, Fine & Callner, P.A., in Atlanta. He
specializes in taxation and corporate law.

MARK E. SKELLENGER has become a fellow of the
American College of Surgeons and is board-
certified by the American Board of Surgery. He
has also received special certification in general
vascular surgery and is director of two vascular
laboratories in the Clear Lakes, Texas, area.

J. GRIFFITH STEEL is chief of the neurology sec-
tion of Wright-Patterson USAF Medical Center
in Dayton, Ohio. He is also assistant professor of
neurology at Wright State University School of
Neurology.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. SAMUEL F. ALBERGOTTI,
a son, William Greer III, on Dec. 5, 1984, in
Anderson, S.C. Albergotti has opened a law prac-
tice in Anderson.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM L. DownlIna, a
daughter, Susan Paige, on Dec. 22, 1984. Down-
ing is in law practice with his father. The firm is
Downing & Downing.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THOMAS R. KING Jr., a
daughter, Susannah Miles, on Dec. 26, 1984, in
Roanoke. She joins two brothers.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. G. WATSON TEBO JR., a
son, G. Watson III, on Nov. 27, 1983, in New
Orleans.

Puitip B. ADDERLEY works for RCA in
Moorestown, N.J., as a designer of missile
weapons systems for the U.S. Navy’s Aegis class
cruisers. He is currently overseeing the installation
of his designs on the Ticonderoga class cruisers
at Ingall’s Shipyard. He, his wife, Debbie, and
children, Christopher, 9, and Tiffany, 7, live in
Ocean Springs, Miss. Adderley received his
Ms.E.E. in 1979 from Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute.

On Nov. 6, 1984, WILLIAM T. HARMON was elected
judge of the 178th District Court in Houston. He
and his wife, Terry, have a daughter, Murphey
Elizabeth, 3.

BRADFORD N. MARTIN has been voted into part-
nership in Leatherwood, Walker, Todd & Mann
of Greenville, S.C.

MICHAEL D. PEPPLER left the Navy in May and

_ entered civilian practice with Psychiatric Associates

of the Tidewater area in Virginia.

MARK W. PRESTON is practicing law in Atlanta,
Ga., with an emphasis on real estate investment.

WILLIAM P. WALLACE Jr. became a partner in the
Roanoke law firm of Woods, Rogers and
Hazelgrove in January 1985. He is alumni
representative on the University Athletic Commit-
tee at Washington and Lee.

JONATHAN H. WEIGLE is vice president of Moline
Tool Co., Inc., a manufacturer of specialized
machine tools, and is currently building a $1.6
million drilling machine for export to the Peoples
Republic of China. Weigle has a daughter, Ellen
Marie, born April 11, 1983.

BEVERLEY H. Woop has been named senior vice
president at InterFirst Bank in Dallas, Texas.
Wood has also been active in the United Way of
Dallas.

1975

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN F. HOFFMAN, a son,
William, on Feb. 7, 1984, in Seoul, Korea.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RoBERT A. KEATLEY, a
son, Tucker Tussing, on Nov. 24, 1984. He joins
two older brothers, Bo, 4, and Benton, 2.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN S. ORTON, a
daughter, Virginia Stewart, on Aug. 1, 1984. Or-
ton is a partner in the Houston law firm of Baker,
Brown, Sharman and Parker.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Tuomas O. Rainey III,
a son, Thomas Orlando IV, on May 11, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. STEPHEN THIENEL, a
daughter, Amy Catherine, on Jan. 3, 1984, in
Jacksonville, Fla.

ROBERT C. FLoyD is employed by Burroughs Corp.
as a systems specialist for the Southeast Region.
Floyd has been with the company nine years.

Davip H. SLATER is a development geologist with
Mobil North Sea, Ltd., based in London.

WILLIAM H. SturGeEs is a partner in the Charlotte,
N.C., law firm of Weinstein, Sturges, Odom,
Grever, Bigger, Jones & Campbell, P.A.

1976

MARRIAGE: Joun F. SHETTLE JR. and Abigail
Smith, November 1983. Shettle is president of
Eastern Aviation & Marine Underwriters, Inc., an
insurance underwriting group.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. LYNCH C. CurIsTIAN III,
a daughter, Hannah Coker, on June 6, 1984.

41

Class Notes

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. KENNETH J. HOLDA, a
daughter, Kristine Ly, on Oct. 22, 1984, in Edison,
N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. PETER D. LAMI, a
daughter, Allison Walker, on Nov. 13, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. B. CRAIG OWENS, a
daughter, Leigh Elizabeth, on Dec. 10, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RoBERT J. SMITH JR., a
son, Robert James III, on March 11, 1983, in Rich-
mond. Smith has opened a custom photofinishing
lab called Bob’s Film Works. His other business,
Bob’s Cameras, just celebrated its fifth
anniversary.

Perry W. BARTSCH JR. is president of A & B Con-
struction & Development, Inc., in Asheville, N.C.

JoHN A. COCKLEREECE Jr. has become a partner
in the law firm of Horton, Hendrick & Kummer
in Winston-Salem, N.C. Cocklereece will specialize
in federal and state taxation.

Douctas M. Faris has joined Binswanger
Southern Co. in Charlotte, N.C. He is an industrial
broker in charge of North Carolina and Virginia
sales.

R. BRookE Lewis is an aviation trial attorney with
the Federal Aviation Administration in
Washington. He also formed his own investiga-
tion and loss adjustment company, R. Brooke
Lewis Associates, to serve Washington area in-
surance carriers and the local bar. He and his wife,
Priscilla, live in Arlington.

Tuomas A. SCHMUTZ is a partner in the law firm
of Newman & Holtzinger in Washington, D.C. He
was formerly with Morgan, Lewis & Bockius.

PAuL K. STILLWAGON is in the first year of a two-
year fellowship in pediatric allergy and clinical im-
munology at the Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh.

PETER B. THOMSON is the assistant secretary with
the American Independent Reinsurance Co.

E. MARSHALL BRADEN (See 1973.)

1977

MARRIAGE: W. KirKLAND RuFFIN and Rebec-
ca Pardo in May 1984. Ruffin is in his fourth year
of residency in general surgery in Boston.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JAMEs B. MALLory III,
a son, James Bryan Mallory IV, on Dec. 16, 1984.
Mallory graduated from Wake Forest University
School of Law in May 1984 and joined the law
firm of T. Michael -Lassiter in Statesville, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. KENNETH S. VOELKER, a
son, Kenneth Scott, on August 10, 1984, in
Georgia. Voelker has recently changed careers to

42

 

P. H. Thomson, ’77, ’83L

become manager of applications for Hayes
Microcomputer Products.

Gary W. Apams is the assistant to the chancellor
for the West Virginia Board of Regents, the gover-
ning board for the state’s 16 public colleges and
universities.

SOLOMON G. BROTMAN is in private practice in
general dentistry in Jacksonville, Fla., and is on
the staff of the Baptist Medical Center.

Puitur J. Enrico Jr. has been working at the
Modern Language Association in New York City
since his appointment in February 1984 as ad-
ministrative assistant to the directors of English
and foreign language. He is currently directing a
nationwide survey of English and foreign language
departments in the U.S. under a grant from the
National Endowment for the Humanities. The
survey will provide the first database of its kind
in this country.

Rerp H. GrirFin is president of Software Research
Technologies, Inc., in Los Angeles.

PauL H. THOMSON is in private law practice with
Joseph A. Massie Jr., P.C., in Winchester, Va.
Thomson is currently a captain in the U.S. Army
Reserves.

STEPHEN C. YEVICH is vice president and controller
with Dalfort Corp. in Texas. Dalfort is an aircraft
maintenance company.

WILLIAM L. Downinc (See 1974.)

WILLIAM P. WALLACE Jr. (See 1974.)

1978

MARRIAGE: Dr. STEVEN B. HeErRD and Dale
Ann Litts, on June 23, 1984, in Deal, N.J.
Members of the wedding party included William
O. Cranshaw, ’78; Dr. Shelby K. Bailey, ’78;
James C. Kingsbery, ’78; James Veghte, ’78; Peter
Kingsbery, ’80; and Walton Kingsbery Sr., *50.
Heird received the M.D. from the University of
Maryland in May 1984 and is in the first year of
a five-year general surgery residency at York
Hospital in Pennsylvania.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. M. DANIEL BECQUE, a
daughter, Simone Danielle, on Oct. 31, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. CLEMENT D. CARTER, a
daughter, Katharine Jean, on May 16, 1984.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DEREK C. SWOPE, a son,
Stuart Norman George, on Jan. 25, 1985.

A. ALEXIS BIRNEY JR. lives near Annapolis, Md.,
where he owns and operates Chesapeake Sailing
School. Birney was married to Julie Bowser in
1980. They have a daughter, Helen, 2.

Davip G. CARPENTER, D. PAGE KELLEY III AND
REYNOLDs Dons were hosts for the annual Alum-
ni Hearts Tournament in Dallas, Texas.

E. Townes DUNCAN is a partner in the law firm
of Bass, Berry & Sims in Nashville, Tenn. Dun-
can and his wife, Ellen, have three children, Lucy,
Ruth and Walker.

Mark W. HampTON is stationed at Ft. Gordon,
Ga., in the U.S. Army Signal Corps, working as
the switching branch chief in the directorate of
combat developments.

K. Lee Howarp II has begun a non-profit letter
press book publishing business. He helps edit a
local poetry magazine, sings for the Eastern Con-
necticut Symphony Chorus, and is involved in a
series of productions for the William Billings In-
stitute of American Music. He has been elected
to the board of directors of Lyme Shores Racquet
Club.

Grecory C. SIEMINSKI will begin work on a
master’s in English at the University of Virginia
in the fall of 1985 and upon completion will begin
a three-year teaching tour in West Point’s English
department.

BENJAMIN B. SwaAN is assistant director of admis-
sions at Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va.
Swan received an M.A. in English from the
University of Virginia after which he worked two
years in a consulting firm in Boston before join-
ing EHS.

RICHARD C. TAYLOR graduated from Mercer
School of Law in June 1983 and is currently work-
ing with the Griffin Co., a real estate developer,
in Atlanta.

EDMUND V. Wick is in his third year as counsel
to the minority leader of the New York State
Assembly, the Hon. C.D. Rappleya. Wick lives
in Lancaster, N.Y.

1979

MARRIAGE: J. Scotr McCanpiess and
Elizabeth Ann Waugh on Nov. 3, 1984. Classmates
John F. Murphy and Thomas A. Price attended.
McCandless is a partner in the Kansas City law
firm of Shook, Hardy and Bacon.

Joun C. Bovay is a shareholder in the firm of
Keith C. Austin and Associates in Gainesville, Fla.
He is a member of the bars in both Florida and
the District of Columbia and is also a CPA. His
specialty is federal taxation.

Lt. Ropert M. BURKHOLDER Jr. is the staff judge
advocate at the Naval Weapons Station Earle in
Colts Neck, N.J.

FERDINAND B. HARRINGTON III is working with
the Computer Sciences Corp. in Dahlgren, Va.
Harrington has completed his thesis for a master S

degree in computer science at Virginia Com-
monwealth University.

PALMER |. HEENAN JR. was appointed vice presi-
dent of DMR Financial Services, a midwestern
mortgage banking concern. He has responsibility
for all mortgage loan programs, mortgage loan
sales and hedging operations.

Dr. M. TucKER Larritte III is a resident in
obstetrics and gynecology at Richland Memorial
Hospital in Columbia, S.C.

Davip D. My Lin graduated from the U.S. Air
Force pilot training program at Kelly Air Force
Base and has received his silver wings. Mylin is
scheduled to serve with the 33rd Tactical Fighter
Wing at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla.

MarkK S. TRAVERS works with Texas Instruments
as the project buyer for the Paveway III low level
laser guided bomb program produced at the Sher-
man, Texas, facility.

1980

MARRIAGE: Jamgss R. LEvaA and Winifred Scott
Schambach on Nov. 24, 1984, on the W&L cam-
pus. Leva is studying for a master’s degree in
French at the University of Virginia.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT J. BERGHEL JR.,
a daughter, Clarre Louise, on Nov. 24, 1984.
Berghe! is in real estate development with Stone
and Associates, Inc., in Baltimore.

BIRTH: PeETER R. ROANE AND MICHELE
SKARVELIS, a son, Philip Randolph, on Oct. 13,
1984, in Charlottesville, Va.

Capt. RICHARD J. ALLEN JR. is assigned to the 2nd
BM 69th Armor at Ft. Benning, Ga. He recently
graduated from the Infantry Officer Advance
Course.

H. Ho_comse Bairp III is project engineer on a
major mill expansion, including the world’s largest
bleached board paper machine, at Westvaco’s
Covington, Va., mill. Baird earned his mechanical
engineering degree at Old Dominion University
while working as a crew member on Eddie Falk’s
NASCAR race team.

WALTON V. CLark is a first-year MBA student at
the Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business
at the University of Virginia.

Davip E. ConsTiNE III received his law degree
from the University of Virginia in 1983 and then
clerked for a federal judge, the Hon. Albert V.
Bryan Jr., in Alexandria. He is now an associate
with the Richmond law firm of Mays, Valentine,
Davenport and Moore.

Davip H. HARPOLE JR., is a resident in surgery
at Duke University after graduating from the
Niversity of Virginia Medical School.

RoBERT A. IRONS was elected prosecuting attorney
of Monroe County, W.Va. Irons also continues
to maintain a private practice in Union, W.Va.

JoHN W. MCALISTER is working for Duke Power
Co. in the corporate communications department
as coordinator of community projects in Charlotte,
N.C.

Dr. EDWARD C. MorRISON is a first-year surgery
resident at the Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston.

Davip J. SORRELLS has joined Lee Harper &
Dancers in Atlanta.

198]

MARRIAGE: Douctas T. Wess and Dorothy
Marlene Henning on Nov. 17, 1984, in Dallas,
Texas. Webb is vice president/sales manager of
Webb & Sons, Inc., a color separation firm in
Dallas, where the couple lives.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ALFRED HINTZ, a son, An-
drew Christopher, on Oct. 18, 1984, in
Ridgewood, N.Y. Hintz is an associate with the
law firm O’Connor and Hayes in Lynbrook, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THOMAS M. MILLHISER,
a son, James McNally, on June 15, 1984, in
Richmond.

MARSHALL A. CLARK moved to New York to open
a new sales office for the broadcast division of
Data Communications Corp., national suppliers
of automation systems for television, radio and
cable stations.

BRIAN C. Dous is sales engineer with The B.R.
Smith Co. in Baltimore. Doub is also pursuing a
degree in electrical engineering at Johns Hopkins
University.

BRADLEY A. Lewis works for Sales Consultants
International, a professional recruiting firm in
Washington, D.C. He and his wife, Jennifer, live

 

in Arlington, Va.

EDWARD L. MINTz is completing his second year
in the New York College of Pediatric Medicine in
New York City.

ROBERT J. MULLICAN is practicing law with the
firm of Armbrecht, Jackson, DeMouy, Crowe,
Holmes & Reeves in Mobile, Ala. Mullican receiv-
ed his law degree from the University of Alabama.

Davip W. Proctor received his law degree from
the University of Alabama and is associated with
Johnston, Barton, Proctor, Swedlaw & Naff in
Birmingham, Ala. He is married to Anne Broyles,
a 1983 graduate of Mary Baldwin College.

JOHN K. SCHMIDT is working on a doctorate in
engineering psychology at the University of
Houston. Following his graduation, he will work
as a research psychologist for the Army.

WILSON C. SNIPES JR. is a reporter for WFMY-
TV, CBS affiliate in Greensboro, N.C.

1982

MARRIAGE; Joun E. Fow er II and Violet Gon-
zalez on Sept. 15, 1984. Fowler is a database
analyst for The Kendall Co., a hospital products
manufacturing firm wholly owned by Colgate-
Palmolive.

MARRIAGE: CHARLES H. PRIOLEAU and Miriam
W. Payne on Jan. 12, 1984, in Houston, Texas.
Groomsmen were: Stan Barnes, ’82; Andy Ber-
tron, ’81; Mark Hancock, ’82; Preston Moore,
*82; Charlie Randolph, ’82; Mike Watson, ’79; and
Usher Winslett, ’82. Prioleau is a banking officer
for the Texas Commerce Bank in Houston.

MARRIAGE; J. FRANKLIN WILLIAMS and June
Elizabeth Ketchum in June 1984. Guests includ-
ed Nelson Ould, ’82; Robert Dorais, ’85; Clarke
Morledge, ’85; Jim Hudson, ’84; George Carneal,
’82; Keith Goretzka, ’83; Scott Dacus, ’82; Andy
Butters, ’83; and ‘‘Mo’’ Gill, ’83. They live in
Stamford, Conn., while Williams works for a law
firm in Greenwich. He is on leave of absence from
law school at the University of Virginia. Later in
his leave Williams and his wife plan to do mission
work in the upland area of Haiti.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRS. KENNETH A. LANG, a son,
Kevin Powell, on Dec. 13, 1984, in Lexington.
Lang is a coordinator of continuing care at the
Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic in Lexington.

WILLIAM F. L. BROown is a first-year law student
at George Mason University in Arlington, Va.

RICHARD L. BURGER is working for the law firm
of Woodward, Fox, Wooten & Hart in Roanoke.

THOMAS COLEMAN JR. is enrolled in the
Cumberland School of Law, Birmingham, Ala.

43

Class Notes

E. BRADLEY Crosby attends Purdue University’s
School of Hotel Management.

MATTHEW B. DENNEN is working at Bloom-
ingdale’s in Garden City, N.Y.

MICHAEL F. KENNEDY is studying journalism at
Marshall University in Huntington, W.Va. Ken-
nedy is fire direction chief of Howitzer Battery,
1/150th Armored Cavalry of the West Virginia Na-
tional Guard.

JoHN W. MartTIN has recently earned an MBA
from Virginia Commonwealth University’s
Graduate Business School. He is now an account
executive with Siddall, Matus and Coughter in
Richmond.

D. Kevin McCorKINDALE joined the law firm of
Vineyard, Drake & Miller in Dallas, Texas, in
April.

In May Epmunp P. Perry will graduate from Yale
Law School. He plans to take the Alabama bar
and join the Birmingham law firm of Thomas,
Taliaferro, Forman, Burr and Murray.

DoucLas G. SHELDON is now an account executive
with the American Broadcasting Co., working at
its new station KISS-FM in Dallas.

RuSSELL H. STALL is southeastern account manager
for Ralph Lauren Home Furnishings, Inc.

Joun A. WELLS III is a third-year student at the
Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta.

GeorGE H. WEst III has joined the Atlanta of-
fice of Peat Marwick, the international accoun-
ting firm, as an intern on the audit staff.

UsHER T. WINSLETT III is a second-year law stu-
dent at New York University.

RoBERT K. WITTPENN recently introduced a na-
tional award-winning product line for Rockland
Chemical Co., Inc., a family business in Peapack,
N.J.

1983

MARRIAGE: H. MorGAn GRIFFITH and Mary F.
Dyess on April 21, 1984. The couple lives in Salem,
Va., where Griffith has opened his own law office.

MARRIAGE: DonaALD W. KELLERMAN JR. and
Anne E. Perry on Aug. 4, 1984, in Alexandria,
Va. Kellerman is a staff accountant for Coopers
and Lybrand in Baltimore, where they live.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM A. Powe III,
a daughter, Lindsey, on July 26, 1984, in Chicago.

James L. BALDWIN Jr. is a second-year law stu-
dent at Southern Methodist University.

44

GeorGE E. Crapy is a second-year law student at
the South Texas College of Law.

VINCENT J. FECHTEL III was promoted to semi-
senior with Arthur Anderson & Co., (public ac-
countants) after only nine months with the firm.
He lives in Tampa.

Howarp E. Gut III was in the Dominican
Republic on a short term medical missions pro-
ject last summer.

Davip W. Happocx is in the first year of Col-
umbia University Graduate School of Business’s
M.B.A. program, concentrating on marketing and
finance.

Davip M. Haaicu, after spending the past sum-
mer as an intern at the State Department, is a first-
year graduate student at George Washington
University, working on an M.A. in security policy
studies and international relations.

SAMUEL B. HO Luis JR. is the chief legislative assis-
tant for U.S Rep. Robert E. Badham, R-Calif. His
areas of concern include economics and taxes.

J. Dwicut LEBLANC III is a second-year law stu-
dent at Tulane in New Orleans.

JoHN M. McGarry is stationed at Twentynine
Palms in Southern California as judge advocate
in the United States Marine Corps.

2nD. Lt. EDWARD J. O’ BRIEN has graduated from
the U.S. Army engineer officer basic course at Fort
Belvoir, Va.

JosepH N. SEIFERT III teaches ninth and tenth
grade English and coaches varsity lacrosse at
Calvert Hall College Prep in Towson, Md. He is
working toward a master’s degree at Loyola
College.

Scott A. SLADE is a management associate with
First National Bank of Atlanta.

R. Brooke Lewis (See 1976.)

PauL H. THOMSON (See 1977.)

1984

MARRIAGE: J. GRANT McGurre and Pek Kheng
Yap in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. McGuire is an
associate with the firm of Campbell Woods Bagley
Emerson McNeer & Herndon in Huntington,
W.Va.

CHARLES W. ALCORN III is a sports writer for the
Big Spring Texas Herald.

2nD Lt. Topp W. Barstow is attending a field
artillery officers basic course which will be follow-
ed by a Pershing officers course, both given at Ft.
Sill, Okla. He will be stationed in the 56th F.A.

 

CORRECTION

Mark D. Kidd, ’84L, is a lawyer with the
Roanoke firm of Osterhoudt, Ferguson,
Natt, Aheron & Agee. A class note in
November/December issue of the Alumni
Magazine included inaccurate information,
The editors regret the error.

Oe a a aa

 

 

 

 

Brigade in New Ulm, Federal Republic of Ger-
many in May of 1985.

2nD. Lt. JoHNn D. CoLe has graduated from the
U.S. Army engineer officer basic course at Ft.
Belvoir, Va.

PETER CRONIN is enrolled in the master’s program
in photographic illustration at Ohio University,

J. Scott Doy e is a student at the University of
Virginia Medical School.

Paut E. Levy is enrolled in the master’s program
in industrial/organizational psychology at Virginia
Tech and is teaching as part of his assistantship.

CHARLES MASON is a staff photographer for the
Fairbanks News-Miner in Fairbanks, Alaska.

Scott C. MASON recently published an article en-
titled ‘‘Tradition Tumbled’’ in The Record of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. The article concerned
Washington and Lee’s coeducation decision.

Ancus M. McBryDE III is in the Corporate
Bankers Development Program at First Union Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

JerFREY C. Nutt is a buyer trainee with Hecht Co.
in Washington, D.C.

Tiwotny P. Rock is platoon leader for the 52nd
Engineer Battalion, Combat Heavy in Ft. Carson,
Colo.

2np. Lr. J. Tyrus SEIDULE has completed an ar-
mor officer basic course at the U.S. Army Armor
School at Ft. Knox, Ky.

 

In Memoriam

1911

JAMES BURROUGHS NOELL, a retired attorney and
operator of Lone Pine Farm in Bedford, died Feb.
3, 1985, in Lynchburg, Va. Noell graduated from
Harvard Law School, then entered the Army and
served 14 months in France. Upon his return, Noell
was associated with the law firm of Taylor,
Jackson, Brophy & Nash in New York. He was
an associate professor of law at W&L in 1922-23
and then joined his father’s law practice, Com-
mercial Credit Co. in New Orleans, and managed
Lone Pine Farm from 1925 to 1942. Upon retire-
ment Noell devoted himself to reading and
research.

1912

James CUYLER CHAMBERS, a retired realtor, died
in November 1984. Chambers received his B.S. 1m
electrical engineering from Georgia Tech in 1913.

 

1919

CHARLES HoLt TAYLOR, a scholar of medieval
French history who taught at Harvard from 1925
until his retirement in 1965, died on Dec. 18, 1984,
in the Pennswood Village retirement community
in Newtown, Pa. Born in Bedford, Va., Taylor
as a youth became interested in history by study-
ing the American Civil War. Taylor’s first publish-
ed work, at the age of 10, was a poem printed in
a local newspaper about Robert E. Lee’s Southern
soldiers. Taylor graduated first in his class at
Washington and Lee University, receiving the A.B.
degree and then the A.M. in 1920. After teaching
at W&L for two years, he undertook graduate
studies at Harvard, receiving an additional A.M.
degree in 1922 and the Ph.D. in 1927. He was well
known and revered by generations of Harvard
students.

1920

JAMES WALLER CALLISON of Staunton, Va., owner
of Callison and Co. insurance agency, died Nov.
14, 1984. Callison was more recently engaged in
the farming business and was active in communi-
ty affairs. He was a member of the Bethel
Presbyterian Church and the Staunton Rotary
Club.

HAROLD GORDON ROBERTSON, whose career in
Roanoke banking covered 49 years, died Jan. 5,
1985, in Salem, Va. Robertson stepped down as
board chairman of Colonial American National
Bank in January 1971, 10 years after retiring as
the bank’s president.

1921

Howarp Gray FUNKHOUSER, died Dec. 31, 1984,
in Exeter, N.H., after a long career in education.
He served many years as professor at Phillips Ex-
eter Academy.

WILLIAM ANDREW GIBBONS Jr. died Feb. 22, 1985,
in Roanoke, Va. He was a retired vice president
of Colonial American National Bank and had
recently been cited in an article in the Roanoke
Times & World-News for his contributions to the
Roanoke Valley. He was a member and trustee of
First Baptist Church and, at the time of his death,
Was the right-of-way agent for the Roanoke Coun-
ty Public Facilities Department. He was an active
member of the Roanoke Baptist Missionary and

lal Union, the Business Men’s Bible Class, and
a charter member of the Roanoke Round Table.

WILLIAM CourTNEY KING Sr., a veteran of World
War [ and former vice commander of American
Legion Post. No. 3, died Feb. 2, 1985, in his
hometown of Roanoke. He served as councilman
and vice mayor of the City of Roanoke and was
President of the Roanoke Kiwanis Club. He receiv-
¢d his law degree from the University of Florida

aw College and was president of the Roanoke
Bar Association. He was a member of St. John’s
Episcopal Church.

1922

SAMUEL LOGAN SANDERSON, a lifelong farmer,
writer and teacher, died Jan. 2, 1985, in Lexington.
Sanderson received his M.A. from Columbia
University in 1952. He published two books,
Science in Culture: A Study of Values and Institu-
tions and Elements, a poetry anthology. Sander-
son retired in 1974. Until mid-December 1984, he
was in frequent attendance at concerts, literary and
political colloquia and scientific seminars at
Washington and Lee.

FRANCIS ALEXANDER SUTHERLAND, a retired
surgeon, died July 7, 1984. Sutherland received his
M.D. degree in 1926 from Harvard Medical
School. From 1926 to 1928 he was an intern at the
New York Hospital. He was attending surgeon at
Cornell Division Bellevue Hospital in New York
City from 1929 to 1932 and an instructor in surgery
at Cornell and Yale as well as associate surgeon
at New Haven. From 1941 to 1945 he was assis-
tant clinical professor of surgery at Yale. He served
in the Medical Corps from 1942 to 1946 and spent
36 months in the Pacific Ocean area. He practic-
ed at the Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torr-
ington, Conn., and later was involved with the ex-
amination and certification of surgeons as
associate secretary-treasurer of the American
Board of Surgery in Philadelphia.

1924

CLARK WILLIAMSON RABB died on Dec. 2, 1984,
in Memphis, Tenn. He was a retired vice chair-
man of Treadwell & Harry Insurance Agency,
where he had worked for more than 55 years. He

 

was a member of the Memphis Country Club, the
Memphis Rotary Club, the Arkansas Travelers
Association, and St. John’s Episcopal Church.

1928

ARTHUR POLK BONDURANT, retired executive vice
president of advertising for Glenmore Distilleries,
died Jan. 30, 1985, in Louisville, Ky. Bondurant
was a native of Bristol, Tenn., an Army Air Corps
veteran of World War II, and a member of the
Louisville Country Club and the board of direc-
tors of Glenmore Distilleries.

1929

LAWRENCE G. E. HEpGgs, died January 10, 1985,
in New Smyrna Beach, Fla.

1930

JUDGE RUSSELL OLIVER Morrow died Nov. 24,
1985, in Lake Worth, Fla. He had retired from
the circuit court bench in 1960 after serving Florida
in that capacity for more than 15 years. He was
a member of the Florida legislature with eight years
in the House and five years in the Senate. He was
also the state attorney for Florida for a short time.
Judge Morrow was active in World War II, join-
ing the Navy as a lieutenant in 1942 and retiring
after 20 years with the rank of captain. He was
also a captain in the Naval Reserves. For more
than 25 years he taught an adult church school
class at the First Presbyterian Church in Lake
Worth. He was a member of the Christian Business
Men’s Committee and was active in recruiting
students for Washington and Lee.

PAGE TREDWAY JR., former president and owner
of the Page Tredway Co. in New York City, died
Aug. 11, 1984, in Little Falls, N.J. Tredway was
active in many New Jersey musical groups and was
an organist for several churches. He was a member
of the American Guild of Organists and was also
a member and former vestryman of the Church
of the Holy Communion in Paterson, N.J.

1932

WILLIAM BAYLIS HIGHTOWER, businessman and
civic leader, died Jan. 22, 1985, in Athens, Ga.
A lifelong Athens resident, he was a successful in-
surance executive and later joined his father as
owner of a men’s department store, where he
worked for more than two decades. Hightower was
a member of the Athens City Council and the ci-
ty’s planning commission. He was the Athens
postmaster from 1961 to 1964. In 1965 he became
treasurer and advertising manager of the Athens
News Leader, predecessor of the Athens News
Courier. He was a member of the board of
stewards and board of trustees and was treasurer
of the Athens United Methodist Church. He was
a member of the Athens Rotary Club, the Athens
Progress Club and the Athens-Limestone Chamber
of Commerce.

JUDGE RUSSELL OLIVER Morrow (See 1930.)

45

In Memoriam

1935

WILLIAM CLARENCE ORTH, retired executive with
Binding and Stevens Seed Co., died in December
1984, in Tulsa, Okla. He joined Binding and
Stevens in 1935 and held various executive posi-
tions, including president, before retiring a few
years ago. A Navy veteran of World War II, Orth
was commander of the USS Schenectady, the
largest tanker in the Pacific at the time of the Pearl
Harbor attack. He was president of the Oklahoma
Seedman’s Association, a member of the
Downtown Rotary Club, a member of the Tulsa
Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, and active
in the Presbyterian Church.

1936

FREDERICK DICKINSON PULTZ, director of the
Presbyterian Guidance Center and former pro-
fessor of psychology and education at Rhodes Col-
lege, died Jan. 11, 1985, in Memphis, Tenn. Pultz
earned his Ph.D. at Ohio State University and
taught at Rhodes College (formerly Southwestern
at Memphis) from 1956 to 1978. He was an or-
dained elder in the Presbyterian Church, board
chairman of Monroe Harding Children’s Home
in Nashville, and board chairman of Memphis
Volunteer Placement Program. He was a member
of the Citizens Advisory Committee of the
Emergency School Assistance Program and a
board member of the Opportunity Foundation.

1937

RoBerT Key Davipson, founder and former presi-
dent of a Waterbury personnel company, died
Nov. 27, 1984, in Woodbury Conn. Davidson was
also president and founder of Connecticut Tem-
porary Service Association. He was past president
of the Northwest Chapter of the American Heart
Association, a member of the board of directors
of the Waterbury Club, and a member of the Mid-
dlebury Swimming Club.

JESSE CARROLL OUTTEN died Jan. 10, 1985, in Sea
View, Va. He was involved in farming and real
estate.

1941

WILLIAM JAMES DOUGLAS, vice president and
treasurer of Kenilworth State Bank, died Nov. 5,
1984, in Scotch Plains, N.J.

1942

FRANK LINTON LAMOorTTE Jr. died Oct. 17, 1984,
in Butler, Md. A native of Wilmington, Del.,
LaMotte attended St. Paul’s School in Baltimore,
Md., finishing in 1938. After receiving his A.B.
from W&L he served four years in the U.S. Navy.
LaMotte saw action with the Atlantic-Pacific
Fleets and was awarded battle stars and a unit com-
mendation. LaMotte was employed by Gulf States
Paper as personnel assistant. He became safety
director in 1955, then personnel relations director.
He went to the sales division in 1957 where he soon

46

distinguished himself as a top salesman. During
his career LaMotte was vice president of LaMotte
Chemical (1947-1949), president of LaMotte Farms
(1949-54), and vice president of Gulf States Paper
(1954-68).

1945

ROBERT HINES BERTINI, a Sales representative for
Howard Lumber Co., died Aug. 8, 1984, in
Winston-Salem, N.C. Bertini spent four years in
the Army Air Force, including two years in the
Pacific aboard B-29s. After discharge, Bertini
returned to W&L for one year and then embark-
ed on a sales career. He was governor of the North
Carolina District East Civitan.

1947

McDONALD LEE STEPHENS died on July 30, 1984,
in Richmond. He was president and owner of the
Stephens Chevrolet, Inc., in New Orleans, La.

1949

EsRON MCGRUDER Faris Jr., professor of law at
Stetson Law School in St. Petersburg, Fla., died
Dec. 5, 1984. He taught law at Washington and
Lee from 1951 to 1957 and later at Wake Forest.
For about two decades he held visiting professor-
ships at a number of other law schools. He prac-
ticed law in Williamsburg, Va., for several years
during the mid-1960s. During three summers in
England, he organized the first overseas program
for American law students for the College of
William and Mary. He also spent three summers
in active practice with an insurance company in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

~t

Os

ae

>

wes

 

PHitip MorTON GRESHAM died Oct. 10, 1984, in
Milan, Italy. An ordained minister of the
Episcopal Church, he served parishes in Sicily, Ita-
ly, England, Colorado and Virginia after
graduating from Virginia Theological Seminary in
Alexandria in 1952. Prior to entering Seminary,
he served in the U.S. Army during World War II.

1950

PerRY HiccGs PEDRICK JR., died March 24, 1984,
in Jacksonville, Fla.

ROBERT MAX VAUGHN, died Jan. 23, 1985. He was
a resident of Athens, Ala. He served in the U.S.
Air Force in England and after discharge became
a civilian employee in the Defense Department in
Foreign Intelligence. At the time of his retirement,
he was Chief of the Foreign Intelligence office at
the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Ala. He was
a member of the First Baptist Church in Athens.
While at Washington and Lee, he was a catcher
on the baseball team.

1951

EsRON MCGRUDER Faris (See 1949.)

1956

CHARLES LEE ForRBES, an attorney in private prac-
tice, died Jan. 8, 1985, in Charleston, W.Va.

1977

Everett LeVoy (Rick) MCHAN died Feb. 23,
1985, in Roanoke. He was employed by the Stuart
McGuire Co., Inc., in Salem, Va.

1980

ANDREW LESTER CROwSON, died Jan. 11, 1985,
in New Mexico. Crowson received his MBA from
Tulane University in 1982. He was an ad-
ministrative coordinator for Conoco, Inc.

1981

Davip FARRIS MULLIN died Nov. 25, 1984, in an
automobile accident near Bourbon, Ind. He was
a teaching intern in the history department of the
Culver Academies. He had taught one year at the
Wakefield School in Huntley, Va. He was a native
of Dearborn, Mich.

1984

JoHN CARLTON PEEBLES died Feb. 20, 1985, in the
crash of a private plane in Southwest Virginia. He
was a manager trainee with the Peebles Depart-
ment Store in Manassas, Va.

1987

PAUL ROBERT STRANGE died Feb. 9, 1985, at his
apartment in Lexington. A sophomore at W&L,
he was a member of the varsity football team. His
home was Falls Church, Va.

And furthermore .. .

Letters to the Editor

EDITOR:
| read with delight a recent article in the

Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine con-
cerning the record success of the 1984
undergraduate varsity cross country team.
The article states Coach Dick Miller receiv-
ed the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Coach of the Year Award. My congratula-
tions to Coach Miller and his troops.

The article fails to point out that a very
able and dedicated law student (and former
half-mile indoor champion at the Universi-
ty of Virginia) was the assistant coach of this
year’s team—Steve Jefferson. On behalf of
those of us who coached afternoons and on
weekends and encouraged the under-
graduates while we were law students at
Washington and Lee, I congratulate Steve
for a job well done. Steve’s demonstrated
leadership and the athletic department’s will-
ingness to participate in the law graduate
assistant coach program is a great example
of ongoing scholastic and athletic coopera-
tion between the law school and the
undergraduate school. Keep up the good
work.

PAUL HAMPTON THOMSON, ’77, ’83L
Winchester, Va.
(Steve Jefferson not only serves as a graduate
assistant in cross country but also in track
and field. In addition, second-year law stu-
dent Mark Kelly has been a graduate assis-
fant on the basketball staff the past two
years.—Ed.)

EDITOR:

In rereading recent letters opposing
coeducation at W&L in the last issues of the
Alumni Magazine, | note a pervasive attitude
of sexism—some blatant, some insidious—
and | am ashamed that my schoolmates ex-
Press themselves in such a discredited and
reprehensible fashion.

The most obviously sexist remark—one
that states what many others only imply—
Suggests that the female students in future
W&L classes will be ‘dizzy drum majors and
Pom-pom girls with Pepsodent smiles.’’ The
Message is that there is no alternative to a
‘serious’? all-male student body except these
€mpty-headed stereotypes. The possibility of
€qually serious-minded female scholars is not
€ntertained: a false dichotomy if ever there

was one. Later, the same writer describes this
future W&L as a ‘‘coed playground’’ and a
**coeducational factory.’’ The implication is
clear: including women in an academic en-
vironment necessarily reduces that environ-
ment to a frivolous diploma mill.

Other indictments are not so stark, but
equally suggestive of this inevitable nose-
dive. Another alumnus writes that the admis-
sion of women ‘‘ensures that W&L will
become just another little coed college on a
hill.’’ This writer would certainly join the
alumnus who feels that coeducation in Lex-
ington ‘‘has launched Washington and Lee
into a new era of mediocrity.”’

Both these men apparently believe that
female students cannot compete intellectually
with the traditional W&L man. They do not
even allow for the possibility that the intellec-
tual caliber of the new W&L woman may be
equal to any man’s, let alone superior to it.
The presumption is clearly sexist, not to men-
tion untenable.

Less obvious are the remarks that be-
moan what will be lost with the change. One
graduate describes the school as ‘‘founded
in the principles of honor and achievement’’
whose value for him was ‘‘the camaraderie
of its students, faculty and alumni.’’ He
finds ‘‘the purpose of Washington and Lee
has been to instill the ideal of pragmatic
ethical achievement in the University’s
students,’’ and concludes by ‘‘severely ques-
tion[ing] the ability of the school to main-
tain its tradition and the essence of its col-
legiate experience in a coed environment.”’
Predicting the loss of these qualities at W&L
presumes that the mere inclusion of women
in the scholarly community must destroy the
qualities: it implies that women do not
recognize ‘‘principles of honor and achieve-
ment,’’ cannot engage in ‘‘camaraderie of
students,’’ and will not absorb ‘‘the ideal of
pragmatic and ethical achievement.’’ This is
tantamount to insisting, as another alumnus
suggests, that women at W&L will have the
effect of not ‘‘allowing contemplation,
reflection, and intellectual growth,’’ because
females cannot engage in these activities and
will somehow prevent the males from doing
so, too.

These sentiments are not surprising (but
nonetheless disturbing) coming from alum-
ni who view the prospective W&L women

wwwwvevevevevvvvevwesewery

 

 

854.4 42 @2 42.4 €4 4 2.4.4 2 &@ 4 O44 OB. M.Ms

merely as a way ‘‘to ‘spice up’ the educa-
tional program,’’ and as students whose in-
tellectual and academic requirements are so
low that all they demand is a pretty, new
dorm ‘‘facing the Colonnade. After all,
couldn’t we attract more [of them] by offer-
ing them the best view in Lexington?’’

If this is what being a ‘‘W&L
Gentleman’’ means, the passing of the
phenomenon may, perhaps, be no loss what-
soever. But if chivalry is, indeed, not dead,
but reborn in a new guise, the New W&L
Men should welcome the New W&L Women
not with open arms, but with open hearts and
minds.

RICHARD E. KRAMER, ’69
New York City

EDITOR:

I am writing as a reflective and concern-
ed graduate of Washington and Lee.
Although I am still a junior alum, the W&L
institution has changed drastically and con-
tinues to change since my departure. The
most obvious change deals with coeducation.
As a “‘rah-rah’? W&L male of late, it took
me quite a while to become adjusted to the
idea of coeducation at W&L. There are
numerous advantages and nuances encom-
passed in a single-sex college environment.
I believe I benefitted from the experience and
will always remember those days fondly. Of
late though, I have come to accept the change
for reasons we all know to be self-evident.
I hope this change will help W&L meet its
future challenges and maintain its overall
excellence.

Yet, there are several trends that began
during my years and continue to develop that
need to be dealt with presently. Certain
trends such as the crackdown on the frater-
nity system should signal alarm. The frater-
nities and other organizations at W&L would
benefit from certain changes. Few things in
life would not. Nonetheless, I fear that the
administration and faculty are attempting to
establish a stranglehold on the fraternities
and student body as a whole.

Is not the college credo based on the
education of the student? I believe so. Yet
this education should not end once one leaves
the Hill or gymnasium. Many of the most
valuable lessons a student will learn deal with

47

And furthermore

priorities and choices. ‘‘Should I par-
ty . . . should I study?’’ Either way, the
decision lies with the student and rightly so.
I sense a dangerous paternal pattern develop-
ing at W&L. I hope I am misguided.

Scholarship and intellectualism are two
very admirable and desirable traits for any
institution of higher learning. W&L should
strive to foster their growth. Yet they tend
to grow predominantly on their own and will
never genuinely do so if inspired by an
overzealous administration and faculty. If a
student fails to make the academic grade or
benefit from the learning experience, the
main culprit is inevitably the student, not the
fraternities or frequent road trips. I fear the
Hill will try to use these times as a chance
to increase its control over the study body.
Again, I hope I am wrong.

A healthy balance has to be struck be-
tween students and the Hill and must
thereafter be maintained. I assure you this
is not an Orwellian sermon, merely a state-
ment of concern. The strength of W&L lies
in its freedom, be it academic, cultural, or
rural in nature. I do not advocate a return
to the academic /aissez-faire of the 1960s but
rather a sober reevaluation of W&L tradi-
tions, where coeducation and the later 1980s
are taking us and why. I continue to hope
that the work hard/play hard vitality remains
an integral part of the W&L community and
not only in the memories of its graduates.

Davip M. HaaicuH, 83
Bethesda, Md.

EDITOR:

The letter of Cynthia L. Fausold in the
January/February issue of the A/umni
Magazine was interesting for several reasons.

1 also graduated from W&L in 1979, as
an undergraduate. I was reared in Hudson,
Ohio—near the College of Wooster. I attend-
ed another Great Lakes College Association
school (of which Wooster is a member). And
I too am Presbyterian.

Aside from the obviously negative tenor
of Ms. Fausold’s letter, it was curious to note
her mention of Presbyterian affiliation,
Christian influence, and humanistic attitudes
in one sentence. How can Ms. Fausold
reconcile Christianity and humanism? How

48

many undergraduates did she know at W&L,
and how well? Finally, while I do not ques-
tion the near utopian experience she had as
an undergraduate, isn’t graduate school an
altogether different form of education and
socialization?

Like Ms. Fausold, I am troubled by cries
of betrayal from W&L graduates—especially
those disavowing allegiance to our alma
mater. However, I do not see what positive
effect Fausold’s condemnation of our school
and the undergraduate body in general can
have. Although Ms. Fausold and those
‘*betrayed’’ come from different camps, a
similar attitude of damnation comes across.

As for me, I appreciate the wonderful
people I met in Lexington and pray that
future generations of undergraduate and
graduate students might focus on and work
for the positive at W&L.

JOHN P. STAFFORD, ’79
Sewickley, Pa.

EDITOR:

I have followed the discussion about
coeducation at Washington and Lee with
great interest. Although I am disappointed
by our Trustees’ decision, their decision has
not diminished the loyalty and love I feel for
my alma mater. I suspect that many, I hope
most, of us alumni who opposed coeduca-
tion will acquiesce in the decision and now
take up again the task of continuing to pro-
vide the arete Dr. Leyburn always spoke to
us about. I would be an ungrateful son in-
deed to turn away from the University simply
because I was disappointed that my point of
view was defeated. I remember my years at
Washington and Lee as among the happiest
of my life. I shall always remember gratefully
the kindness, concern, and patience with
which such great men as Westbrook Barritt,
Minor Rogers, and Dean [Lewis] John
treated such an immature and awkward
undergraduate as I remember myself. It was
the superb education I received not just from
books and lectures, but from the mien of my
professorial mentors that will fix Washington
and Lee in my heart until I pass from the
memory of man.

Putte J. ENRICO JR., ’77
Plainfield, N.J.

EDITOR:

In a letter from Bernard C. Grigsby in
your fall issue is a sentence that touched my
heart. ‘‘Sadly, I feel that a friend I knew and
supported well is passing on.”’

This response is late because I’m on sab-
batical this year and have been doing some
traveling—which tells you that my universi-
ty experience has not been limited to W&L.
And having been born and raised in Lex-
ington, and having returned there almost an-
nually to visit my folks, my W&L experience
has not been limited to the three years spent
getting my B.A. degree.

The W&L of my undergraduate ex-
perience had a dress code that was second
in importance only to the Honor Code. The
fraternities each had a ‘‘father’’ who saw to
it that the investment didn’t deteriorate and
a ‘‘mother’’ who kept the house like a home
away from home. In those days it was possi-
ble to get through school without storing a
great deal of information, but not without
acquiring some polish, some savoir vivre,
some maturity. On the other hand, athletics,
particularly football, belonged to the jocks.

In the ’50s all athletics became part of the
student program, and the quality and diver-
sity of the educational programs continued
a steady climb. Dress probably hit bottom
in the early ’70s when students were com-
monly seen on campus in little more than
their beards—and not uncommonly with a
beer in one hand and a joint in the other.
The frat houses have continued their physical
and moral decay until they no longer serve
any civilized purpose that is apparent to me.
Since Bernard is class of ’72, this W&L I’ve
just described must be the friend whose pass-
ing he laments.

Yes, Bernard, I learned long ago that the
WA&L I knew and loved ceased to exist when
I made that walk down the hill in front of
Washington Hall in cap and gown. Univer-
sities don’t exist for yesterday’s students,
Bernard, but for today’s and tomorrow’s.

Guess what! My son David attended the
Summer Scholars program last summer and
loved it. He’s applying for admission next
fall and if accepted will be a third genera-
tion Mink.

Life goes on, Bernard.

MARVIN Daves, ’48
Denver

Because learning is a lifelong pleasure...

The 1985 W&L Alumni College

Vacation Learning for the Entire Family

 

June 30-July 6: ‘“‘Great Writers, Etc.”

Seminar options include Mark Twain, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Three Russian Novelists, Great Painters, The Music of Bach
and Handel, The Art of Greek Figural Vases, The History of Fine Porcelain, and an art studio workshop.
Recitals, guest speakers, films, and internationally-acclaimed author Peter SENG Ces

July 7-13: ‘‘Society and Health”’

A look at several of the latest advancements in health care technology and some of the moral/ethical issues they raise.
Guest speakers, films, and a physical fitness and nutrition program.
With Lou Hodges, Len Jarrard, and Tom Nye

 

July 74-20: ‘‘Classical Athens”’

A vivid introduction to the richest era of Classical Greek culture. Readings in Plato, Sophocles, Aristophanes, and Thucydides.
Guest speakers, films, and a Greek banquet. Program anticipates group trip to Greece in 1986.
With Harry Pemberton, Taylor Sanders, and Herman Taylor

August 6-23: ‘Elizabethan England: Court and Country”’

Our inaugural W&L Alumni College Abroad. Sixteen days in London, Stratford, Oxford, Salisbury, and Tunbridge Wells.

Exclusive tours, lectures, plays, and advance readings. (Waiting list only.)
With John Evans, Taylor Sanders, and Pam Simpson.

 

| Oe ALL ee LOL Las

Robert Fure, Director
Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-8723

The Alumni Magazine of Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY At Lexington, Virginia 24450

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

CL,

And Additional Mailing Offices j

University Library

  

What’s the Difference
Between
A Great College
And
Just Another College?

    
 
 
  

Quality. |
Quality in the faculty. Quality in the students. Quality in the financial support. |
W&L has a faculty of quality and is attracting students of quality in record numbers. .
The quality of the financial support?
That’s up to you.

The Annual Fund
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 
    

