The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

July 1990

 

:
™ ; ; “
7 | 7
:
:
; :
7
7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

ee i .
Carr as
S
;
C,

ts
a.
Le
Nol

EM MOTTE MO! IES ee

eS kel, on La)

 

 

 

 

Along the Colonnade

As every graduate knows, history is revered at Washington and
Lee. As soon as new students step onto the campus in the fall, they
begin to learn about the customs, myths, and legends of this
University—about Traveller and Lee, President Gaines and Dean
Gilliam, the Honor System and Fancy Dress and the Mock Conven-
tion. Our heritage is important, and particularly so as we near our
250th birthday.

In this issue of W&L, we celebrate Washington and Lee’s history.
We begin with a tribute to Old George, the venerable monument
which has perched atop Washington Hall for nearly a century and
a half and which has now been removed for preservation. There’s
also the news that renovations are beginning at several of the Univer-
sity’s fraternity houses. As recent visitors to the campus no doubt
realize, both Old George and the fraternity buildings were in urgent
need of repair, and these renovation efforts represent important steps
in preserving and maintaining the best of our heritage.

Of course, the present fraternity houses had not even been con-
structed at the beginning of this century, when Randolph Preston
Sr., ’02, attended Washington and Lee. But there were fraternities
at that time, as well as literary societies, boat clubs, and various other
forms of entertainment. In 1955, Mr. Preston spoke to the Wash-
ington, D.C., chapter about his years at the University. The text of
that speech made it into W&L’s archives, and we are pleased to be
able to reprint it here under the title, ‘‘A Mighty Beacon.’’

Throughout its two and a half centuries, Washington and Lee
has produced graduates who have excelled in every field imaginable.
This issue of W&L contains stories about three exceptional alumni—
Berthenia Crocker, ’78L, a descendant of John Randolph Tucker,
who works as a tribal attorney for the Northern Arapaho Indian
tribe in Wyoming; Dr. Fred Frick, ’74, a Florida physician who
specializes in the treatment of drug addiction; and John Morris, who
graduated in June after winning three national tennis championships
and being named the NCAA Senior Player of the Year.

All three of these graduates are now making their own contribu-
tions to Washington and Lee’s legacy, just as their predecessors did,

and we are proud to claim them as our own.
P int RC:

 

 

cinemas casa

Washington and Lee University

JAMES M. BALLENGEE, Rector

JoHN D. Wison, President

BRIAN D. SHaw, Director of
Communications

Communications Advisory Board

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
ANDREW H. McCuTcCHEON, ’48
ROBERT MOTTLEY, ’64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN

FRANK A. PARSONS, °54
MATTHEW W. PAXTON, °49
CHARLES S. Rowe, *45

SARAH K. WIANT, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, ’72, President
Tampa, Fla.

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, °56, ’58L, Vice
President

Baltimore, Md.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Associate
Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

BENJAMIN L. BAILEY, ’75
Charleston, W.Va.

WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61
Hilton Head Island, S.C.

JOHN A. COCKLEREECE JrR., ’76, ’79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.

WALLER T. DuDLEy, ’74, ’79L
Alexandria, Va.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Staunton, Va.

CLay T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

ROBERT S. KEEFE, ’68
New York, N.Y.

CHARLES T. McCorp III, ’63
Houston, Texas

EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., ’61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio

MICHAEL G. MorGAN, ’68
Stamford, Conn.

Mason T. New, ’62
Richmond, Va.

EUGENE C. PERRY JrR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

WILLIAM J. RUSSELL JR., ’57
Malvern, Pa.

WILLIAM E. SMITH Jr., ’63
Birmingham, Ala.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

J. FRANK SURFACE Jr., ’60
Jacksonville, Fla.

MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L
Atlanta, Ga.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b- -

N G ae

PAST

<a

Old George Comes Down

 

 

 

 

Lexington artist Barbara Crawford and Branco
Medenica, the sculptor who is restoring Old
George, examine the damaged statue.

2 W&L

n a cool day in April, Old
George left his post atop
Washington Hall forever.

The handcarved, wooden statue of
George Washington, which has been a
beloved symbol of the University to
generations of students and alumni, was
carefully removed and sent away for
restoration. It will be replaced by an ex-
act bronze reproduction.

‘*After 146 years atop Washington
Hall, we were getting concerned about
Old George’s wellbeing,’’ said James W.
Whitehead, director of W&L’s Reeves
Center and coordinator of the project.
‘‘The natural deterioration, damage
from birds and insects, and student ‘at-
tention’ over the many years have com-
bined to jeopardize Old George’s future.
In order to preserve him, Old George
had to be removed from Washington
Hall.”’

Members of the University com-
munity had been worried about Old
George for some time. Indeed, one
eyewitness claimed he even saw the

statue sway in the gusts of Hurricane
Hugo last fall. Fortunately the class of
1940, under the leadership of Sydney
Lewis, volunteered to fund the restora-
tion process as part of their 50th reunion
gift, so the project was able to move for-
ward this spring.

On the morning of April 17, a con-
siderable crowd of faculty, staff,
townspeople, and even children from a
nearby day-care center assembled on the
Front Lawn to witness the statue’s de-
scent. (The audience no doubt would
have been larger if undergraduates had
not been away on spring break.) Two
members of W&L’s Buildings and
Grounds crew—Henry Weeks and Ted
Hickman—spent several hours at
George’s feet, as they worked to free the
statue. A crane was brought from the
Lenfest Center construction site, and at
long last, bound by ropes, George was
brought to rest on the ground in front
of the Colonnade.

Some of him, anyway. To
everyone’s dismay, a good portion of
the statue remained on the cupola, and
the deteriorating wood had to be
scooped into buckets and brought down
separately. Other debris—such as paint
chips and bits of concrete, which had
been used over the years to shore up Old
George—drifted through the air as the
statue descended.

‘*We had been warned by the peo-
ple who had painted it, but we were still
surprised by how bad it was,’’ Weeks
admitted. ‘‘I guess we were lucky to get
anything at all.’’

Branco Medenica, the Birmingham,
Ala., sculptor charged with restoring
Old George, agreed. ‘‘Although the
statue’s torso is pretty solid, his head is
hollow, and from the torso down there’s
nothing at all in the back,’’ Medenica
said. ‘‘There’s no base, either, so I
won’t be able to stand him up to work

 

on him. It’s the most challenging job
I’ve ever had.”’

Old George’s condition made it clear
that the restoration effort was absolutely
necessary. “‘I was one of these conser-
vative people who said, maybe we
shouldn’t take him down yet,’’ confess-
ed Pamela H. Simpson, professor of art
history. ‘‘But as soon as I saw the state
he was in, it became obvious that if we
hadn’t taken him down, he would have
come down eventually by himself.’’

The statue was driven to Medenica’s
Birmingham studios. After the restora-
tion process is complete, Old George
will go to West Palm Beach, Fla., where
a cast will be formed for the bronze
replica. The new statue will be painted
white, so as to be virtually in-
distinguishable from the original.

The original Old George will return
to the campus in about a year’s time, to
rest in a permanent display area.

Old George is the only extant artistic
work of Matthew Kahle, a Lexington
cabinetmaker. The statue stands eight
feet tall and weighs about 700 pounds.
According to legend, the statue was
made from a pine log Kahle found
floating in the Maury River.

During his entire history, Old
George has been the victim of student
pranks. In the late 1800s, members of
the Albert Sidney and Harry Lee crew
clubs alternated painting the statue blue
or red in the week leading up to their an-
nual race. It was also customary for
first-year students to scale Washington
Hall and paint Old George the day
freshman rules were lifted. And cadets
from nearby Virginia Military Institute
frequently coated the statue in the
yellow and red colors of their school.

Old George has suffered other in-
dignities, too. In recent years,
woodpeckers nested inside him, looking
for insects. In fact, woodpeckers were

such a problem in the early part of this
century that a temporary wire screen
was erected around the statue.

The woodpeckers notwithstanding,
the Washington and Lee community
maintains a steady devotion and loyal-
ty to Old George. ‘‘It may not be a
Michelangelo creation,’’ wrote Henry

 

 

Coke in honor of the father of our

country.

**We should celebrate the fact that
the University and its supporters are
making a commitment to preserving Old
George,’’ Simpson said. ‘‘We’ve made
a commitment to take care of this im-
portant part of our heritage.”’

 

 

 

r
_- a
Spy —
i f

 

 

 

Boley in his book Lexington in Old
Virginia, ‘‘but in the sentiment and af-
fections of W&L students, it means
more than the Winged Victory or Venus

.de Milo.’’

Although the morning of April 17
was in many ways a sad occasion, it was
cause for celebration as well. The Front
Lawn was decorated with red, white,
and blue balloons, and onlookers were
served cherry-filled brownies and cherry

Left, members of W&L’s buildings and
grounds crew work to free Old George from
the Washington Hall cupola; right, Henry
Weeks, the University’s carpenter foreman,
takes a last look at Old George before driving
him to Birmingham, Ala., for restoration.

W&L 2

 

 

PR 8 8.8 ee

N G 4 3050

PAST |

 

ummertime in Lexington usually

means that a hush falls over

Washington and Lee’s fraternity
houses. But not this summer.

Every morning for the past several
weeks, construction crews have arrived
for work at six of the houses. They have
torn down walls, pulled up floors, and
dismantled plumbing and wiring. Soon,
they will begin the process
of rebuilding.

It’s been years in the
planning, but Washington
and Lee’s Fraternity Ren-
aissance Program is final-
ly underway.

The program will affect
virtually every fraternity at
Washington and Lee dur-
ing the next few years.
Work has actually begun
on Beta Theta Pi, Pi Kap-
pa Alpha, Phi Delta Theta,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Sigma Nu, and Phi Kappa
Sigma. When those houses
are completed next Jan-
uary, construction crews
will move on to Pi Kappa
Phi, Phi Kappa Psi, Lamb-
da Chi Alpha, and Sigma
Chi. In addition, the house
formerly occupied by Zeta
Beta Tau will be renovated
and become the new home
to Kappa Sigma.

(Chi Psi and Delta Tau
Delta will not require the
full-scale renovation that is
needed at other houses, so
work there may occur dur-
Ing One or two summer
vacations. Kappa Alpha
and Sigma Phi Epsilon
have hot applied to par-
Ucipate in the renaissance
Program, although they are

Fraternity

Renovations Begin

expected to do so. The Phi Gamma
Delta house will not be renovated, since
it was completely rebuilt in 1986 after
a fire destroyed the original structure.)
**Our goal,’’ says Frank A. Parsons,
’54, coordinator of capital planning, ‘‘is
to bring all houses into compliance with
the standards set by the Alumni Frater-
nity Council by September 1992.”’

na eae
r Pee | ato ee ay ee Zoe
A * ne 4s j > eee ‘ ig on

Been | PhS Sees
7 - " oo a ee ooo tn hi Sa ™ -
eeraee eee ee lo Boke net nt saad AD
ee eee ce Chee ek Ske tk ‘ se Sad ~
Si omemnearaeed coorerenapt he ne
| i. eg

Se ae ee e

 

 

The lion statue standing guard over the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity is the
only remaining resident of the house, which is currently being renovated.

In order to meet those standards,
each house must appoint a building
committee, composed of members of
the housing corporation and current
students. Those committees will work
with VMDO, the Charlottesville ar-
chitectural firm hired by the Universi-
ty, to plan each renovation project.

**Because each of these houses is
distinctive in architectural
style, we want to keep the
insides different as well,’’
Parsons says. ‘Our goal is
to achieve a type of men’s
club ambience in each of
the houses, while respec-
ting and maintaining the
taste and preferences of the
men who will live there.
— Wedo not want a group of
- houses that all look alike.’’

When they are com-
pleted, the houses will look
much as they do today
from the outside (although
the unsightly fire escapes
will be removed, once
sprinkler systems have been
installed). But the interiors
will be changed completely.

Each house will have a
large party room on the
basement level, with a sep-
arate outside entrance and
restroom facilities for men
and women. Parties will be
restricted to this room, to
minimize wear and tear on
other areas within the
house. Big-screen television
lounges are planned adja-
cent to the party rooms.

The living rooms will
“*take on the characteristics
of those you would find in
a fine house or good hotel
lobby,’’ Parsons says. At-

W&L 5

 

 

The Sigma Alpha Epsilon house is scarcely recognizable now, since the
front hallway (above), bathrooms (below), and dining room (opposite
page) are being substantially reconstructed.

6 W&L

 

tractive but sturdy furniture is planned
for these sitting areas and for special
social functions. Dining rooms will be
equipped with trestle tables and chairs,
rather than the backless benches that
have become a trademark of fraternity
dining. The dining rooms will be large
enough to accommodate all upperclass
members of the fraternities at meals.

The adjacent kitchens will resemble
modern restaurant kitchens and will be
able to accommodate the preparation of
all meals.

The upper areas of the houses will
contain the bedrooms. Depending on
the dimensions of the individual houses,
there will be a varied mix of single and
double rooms. Each room will contain
dormitory-type furniture that will in-
clude a study desk and chair, bed, and
chest of drawers. The furniture will be
modular in design, permitting residents
to arrange the rooms as they choose.
Each room will be wired for telephone
and cable television.

The University will also meet the city
of Lexington’s requirement to provide
a nearby off-street parking space for
each bed in the fraternity houses.

The entire renovation process is ex-
pected to cost about $10 million. Half
of the funds will be returned to the
University through rental payments and
Greek system student fees.

Nearly everyone agrees that once
they are completed, the fraternity houses
will be attractive places to live and
socialize. But in the meantime, the
widescale renovation plan has created
some challenges for the Greek
organizations.

For one thing, a sizable number of
students will be displaced during at least
one term next year, since sophomore
fraternity members customarily live in
the houses. Fortunately, the University’s
student housing has not been fully oc

cupied during recent
years, so many fra-
ternity members have
been able to find
rooms in the Woods
Creek Apartments or
in Gaines Residence
Hall. Others will live
in apartments or
houses in the Lex-
ington area.

Because they won’t
be able to take their
meals in the fraterni-
ty houses, many of
the fraternity mem-
bers may eat in the
University’s dining
hall. SAE, for exam-
ple, has continued
to collect boarding
fees from members,
which are then paid
directly to W&L’s
food service.

A more trouble-
some problem for the
fraternities concerns
social activities. Since they have no
houses, they will need to find alternative
Places to have their meetings and
Parties.

So far, the fraternity members seem
to be adjusting well. ‘‘We have our
weekly meetings in the University
Center,’’ says John Kalmbach, a
freshman member of SAE from
Shreveport, La. ‘“‘And we’ve had our
Parties with other houses. Nothing’s
really changed except the location.”’

The six displaced fraternities held a
lottery so that on-campus locations
could be assigned for fall Rush ac-
livities. ‘‘It would bother us to have
Rush on campus if other houses weren’t
in the Same situation,’’ Kalmbach ex-
Plains. “‘Byt we’re all on equal footing.

w e
ar
i

a ‘
|g
ae:

 

It’s a limitation, but the tradeoff is
worth it.’’

Before the fraternity members return
to their renovated houses, they must be
in compliance with the University’s stan-
dards for fraternities. Included in those
standards is a provision requiring each
fraternity to have a non-student resident
manager. Several of the fraternities have
already hired resident managers, and the
rest are expected to do so soon.

‘All in all, we think having a
housemother will be a big help,’’ says
Rich Weinstein, a rising senior from
Baltimore and incoming president of
Beta Theta Pi. ‘‘We’re not really sure
what to expect, because we’ve never had
a housemother before, but I’m sure it
will help us manage the house better.’’

The fraternity renaissance, Wein-
stein says, will be ‘‘a new and different
experience for us, but everybody’s ex-
cited about it. Right now the house is
in such bad shape that it’s hard to take
pride in it. We think the renovation will
really have a positive impact.”’

Kalmbach agrees. ‘‘We’re excited
about having a new house,” he says.
‘**The rooms are going to be a lot bigger
and nicer, and we’re going to have more
privacy, since all the parties will have to
be in the basement.

**It’s amazing to me that the school
is putting this much money into the
fraternities, especially when a lot of
other schools are clamping down on
them and shutting them down. It’s a real
endorsement of the fraternity system.”’

W&L 7

 

TRIBAL

 

 

 

 

; :
a aati : "
a ” “! 7 .

ad eS = | eS -

Photographs accompanying this story are by Sarah Wiles.

8 W&L

 

JUSTICE

Lander, Wyo., is a town about twice the
size of Lexington and every bit as friendly. A
dot on this broad expanse of sagebrush and
prairie grass known as Wyoming, Lander fea-
tures shops and businesses with names like
‘The Silver Spur Motel’’ and ‘‘The Hitching
Rack.’’ The nearest airport (which serves just
one airline) is a good 25 miles away; you can
reach the foothills of the Rockies in about
five minutes. The speaking rule is in force
here: People talk to strangers, and tourists
very quickly feel at home.

Just west of Lander, along U.S. Highway
287, sprawls the Wind River Indian Reserva-
tion, home to about 8,000 members of the
Northern Arapaho and Shoshone Indian
tribes. Centuries ago, the tribes came to this
valley because it was the warmest part of the
state. But recent history has been less kind to
the Native Americans. A 1988 survey of the
reservation residents found that about three-
fourths of them qualify as ‘‘low-income.”’
Unemployment runs close to 70 percent, and
only four out of 10 of these Indians have a
high-school degree.

Each tribe is a sovereign nation, existing
within the broader framework of the United
States government. Each has its own rules,
its own culture. Government meetings are
conducted both in English and in a Native
American tongue. Residents of the reserva-
tion are American citizens, and yet they exist
apart.

It’s not easy to work in both worlds. But
Berthenia Crocker, ’78L, tries. For the past
year, she has served as the attorney for the
Northern Arapaho tribe. She drafts con-
tracts, legal statutes, and resolutions for the

 

 

Berthenia Crocker, ’78L, Represents

Northern Arapaho Indians

tribe. She advises corporations that are sub-
sidiaries of the Indian nation. And she seeks
to determine who has jurisdiction over in-
dividual cases—the state, the federal govern-
ment, or the tribe.

The legal issues are complex. But that is
precisely what appeals to Crocker. ‘‘I like
this job because it’s so intellectually challeng-
ing,’’ she says. ‘‘When I was in general prac-
tice, | very rarely got a case when I said,
‘Gee, this is hard.’ I get into much more in-
teresting legal issues now.”’

Besides, Crocker admits, she’s always
rather enjoyed working for the underdog.
**My favorite kind of case is that of an in-
stitution against an individual,’’ she says with
a smile. ‘‘It’s more fun than anything.’’

Berthenia Crocker did not
begin her legal career as a tribal at-
torney. In fact, as a child growing up in
Baltimore, she didn’t even think about being
a lawyer at all. Her first love was music,
although she majored in history at Pomona
College in California. After graduation, she
spent two years traveling throughout Asia
and Europe. She visited, among other places,
Taiwan, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Sri
Lanka, Iran, and Switzerland, and even
worked for a while as a chambermaid in New
Zealand.

It was not until she returned to this coun-
try and went to work as a paralegal in San
Francisco that her thoughts turned to the
law. And, quite naturally, she decided to
Study at Washington and Lee.

 

 

Crocker’s great-great-grandfather was
none other than John Randolph Tucker, the
first dean of Washington and Lee’s School of
Law and the man for whom Tucker Hall is
named. Her grandfather was Forrest Flet-
cher, who served as W&L’s track and cross
country coach for many years; after his death
her grandmother, Laura Fletcher, was a
housemother to the Zeta Beta Tau and Phi
Kappa Psi fraternities. Her father, Michael
Crocker, graduated from Washington and
Lee in 1940. Her cousin, John Tucker, is
currently the coach of the women’s track and
men’s cross country teams at the University.
And the list of family Washington and Lee
connections goes on and on.

It’s no wonder that Crocker thinks of
Lexington as ‘‘a second home.”’ ‘“‘One of the
reasons I went to W&L was that I wanted to
be in Lexington,”’ she says. ‘‘I knew law
school would be hard, and I wanted a place
where I felt good.”’

Crocker lived up to the family reputation.
She was a Burks scholar, was named to
Order of the Coif, and graduated magna cum
laude. She was also involved with the Alder-
son women’s prison program. ‘‘I wanted to
get some clinical experience, and I wanted to
work with Professor [Wilfred] Ritz, who di-
rected the program,”’ she recalls. ‘‘Besides, it
was a women’s prison, and I was interested
in women’s legal issues.’’

After graduation, Crocker moved to the
Washington, D.C., area and worked as a law
clerk for Judge Edward S. Smith in the U.S.
Court of Claims. She was married to Geoff
O’Gara, a journalist, and the couple decided
they would like to live in the mountains—

 

W&L

 

 

somewhere. “‘It could have been the Ap-
palachian Mountains, it could have been the
Sierras,’’ Crocker remembers. As it turns
out, O’Gara got a job with High Country
News, a regional environmental paper then
based in Lander, and in 1979 they moved to
Wyoming with their 6-week-old baby, Genya.

As her husband settled into his new posi-
tion, Crocker passed the bar and went into
private practice. ‘‘I really liked working for
myself,’’ she says. ‘‘But I found after eight
years, it was very lonely. It’s hard to be by
yourself, especially in a profession that in-
volves confidences, because you can’t just
call somebody up and discuss the case.”’

So in 1988 she went to work for the
Legal Services Office on the Wind River
reservation. The office covers the entire
western half of the state and provides ser-
vices to individuals who are too poor to hire
their own attorneys. Most of her cases in-
volved domestic violence, divorces, and social
security and welfare entitlement.

**The program does a tremendous job of
delivering services to a lot of people in an ef-
fective way,’’ she believes. ‘‘Legal Services to
me is like the Head Start program—it’s
something that works. It’s one of the few
programs targeting poverty problems that has
made an effect—especially in a state like this,
where so many people go unrepresented, be-
cause the bar is so small. If you don’t have
$100 or $75 an hour, Legal Services is the
only thing available.’’

Crocker enjoyed her work with Legal Ser-
vices, but she found it did not leave her
much time to devote to other interests—such
as community service and music—and to her
children, Genya, Rosie, and Nicholas. In
April 1989, she left the department and
became the full-time attorney for the Nor-
thern Arapaho tribe.

In many ways, her current position is sim-
ilar to that of any corporate attorney. She
works directly with the six-member Business
Council—a board of directors, if you will,
which supervises the affairs of the tribe. But
the history of Indian relations in this country

is, to say the least, complicated, and so are
the attendant legal issues.

For instance, should the county sheriff be
permitted to use a search warrant on the res-
ervation? Who is responsible for municipal
services such as waste management? Whose
laws should apply to the allocation of water,
the West’s most valuable resource?

“*Tribes are sovereign in some respects
and not so sovereign in other respects,”’
Crocker explains. ‘‘It all depends on who is
asking the question and in what context it’s
asked. Ultimately, it’s a political question.”

There’s also the issue of where court cases
should be tried. In general, non-Indians
would rather avoid the Indian courts, and In-
dians quite naturally prefer their own legal
organization.

**There’s a built-in conflict in having two
legal systems, and it’s always going to be
there,’’ says Crocker. ‘‘You’re always going
to have these tensions. In general, people
from the outside view the tribal courts as ar-
bitrary. It’s not as formal a system, and it’s
harder to find out what the rules are unless
you practice there. The rules are available to
look at, but you can’t go to the county law
library to find out. It’s a good system,
though, once you’re familiar with it.’’

During the past few years, Crocker has
tried to become more familiar with the tribal
courts and with Indian culture. But it’s not
always easy. She realizes that no matter what
she does, she will always be an outsider. She
is not Indian; she is from the East; and she
is one of few female lawyers practicing in the
State.

**There’s very much of a cultural barrier
between me and the members of the tribe,”’
she says. ‘‘I know there is generalized resent-
ment whenever the tribe hires someone who
is not a member, and I can sympathize with
that. I try not to be obtrusive. I’ve learned a
lot of ways to communicate better with peo-
ple who have a different background.”’

Communicating better has meant learning
about the tribe’s history. And much of that
history makes Crocker angry.

 

10

W&L

 

 

 

‘‘The Indians were truly put in a terrible
position. They had their culture destroyed.
They were expected to become farmers
with their own plots of land, instead
of hunters who used the land com-
munally. And yet they were not given
enough support at the time to be al-
lowed to change. Now they are pulled
in so many different directions.”’

Reservations were established, she
explains, in order to provide a perma-
nent homeland for the Indians. But
the Indians were not accustomed to the
idea of a ‘‘permanent homeland.”’

‘‘These people were nomadic hunters.
They weren’t farmers. For a while the at-
titude was, ‘Let’s give this land to these
people individually, and they will become
like us.’ But these nomadic people couldn’t
get used to it, so the only way they could
support themselves was to sell the land. An
enormous amount of reservation land was
sold—about a third nationwide. Much of the
land still on the reservation is now owned by
common right; it’s not individually owned.
That was done to stop the hemorrhage of the
reservation.”’

These days, Crocker believes, Indian pol-
icy is headed in a healthier direction. Under
the Nixon administration, many programs
that had formerly been directed by the fed-
eral government were turned over to the
tribes, and now they are supervising their
Own affairs to a greater extent. Too, more
Indians today are going away to college—or
even law school—and then returning to work
with the tribe.

Ultimately, Crocker believes, that sort of
self-determination will be the key to improv-
ing Indians’ lives. **Generally speaking, I
think they want to maintain their cultural
identity,’’ she says. **Attempts to assimilate
them into our culture never really worked.
No matter where they go, they feel very at-
tached to this place. They have a very com-
Plex system of extended family, and they
Want to preserve that.’’

In the meantime, Crocker will do what

   

she can to help the tribe. She admits there
are difficulties in working with a group of
people, rather than a single individual. ‘‘]
miss the personal contact of private prac-
tice,’’ she says. ‘‘Not only am I representing
only one client, but I’m representing an enti-
ty, and it’s hard sometimes to discern what
that entity wants.”’

In 1870, when John Ran-
dolph Tucker joined the faculty at
Washington and Lee’s School of Law, the
Wind River Indian Reservation had been in
existence for only two years. If Tucker were
alive today, he would probably have trouble
believing that his great-great-granddaughter,
herself a graduate of ‘‘his’’ law school,
works half a continent away, on a dusty
Wyoming plain, trying to protect and pre-
serve the rights of Native Americans.

But it’s a safe bet he would approve of
her commitment and dedication.

“I try,’’ she says simply, ‘‘to be a good
lawyer.”’

 

Wa&L 11

 

 

‘A Mighty Beacon

= Ye
Ae

>. ap-erd

 

ew)
.
eA
Bs i. VF? |

ek

Jf

4 Pm re .

‘sf ’
Ae aS: gr
“ie 4

¥ He a . re 4 ; . ° a tx, Li be
otis ae oe , os -
at | | “ny!
; ' rf f
| ik | . 2 1 i ; ; 1

WASHINGTON AND LEE
AT THE TURN OF THE CENTURY

This article is taken from a speech given in 1955 to the Washington, D.C., alumni chapter by
Randolph Preston Sr., ’02. It and the accompanying photographs are used with the permission of
the University Archives, The University Library, Washington and Lee University.

rom the time that the Scotch-Irish of
the Valley founded the original Liberty

Hall Academy in 1749 until the present,
this school has had a remarkable history.

General Robert E. Lee’s presidency from
1865 to 1870 gave what was then Washington
College a position of leadership among the
educational institutions of the South which it
still maintains. But as the 19th century came
to an end, the fortunes of Washington and
Lee were at a low ebb. There was no presi-
dent; one of the law professors, Henry St.
George Tucker, was acting president, until a
successor to the late William L. Wilson could
be found. Not a trained educator, Mr. Tuck-
er was doing his best to hold the affairs of
the college on an even keel.

The late President Wilson, an eminent
statesman from West Virginia, was in poor
health throughout his brief term of office
and therefore could not reorganize the Uni-
versity and bring it in line with modern
educational methods as he otherwise might
have done.

 

His predecessor was General George
Washington Custis Lee, son of General
Robert E. Lee, who had been president since
Shortly after his father’s death in 1870. Gen-
eral Custis Lee, as he was usually called, had
been in increasingly bad health for many
years prior to 1900 and was therefore not
able to take any active interest in the college.
He finally became an invalid and a recluse,
who was merely the nominal head of the
institution.

The panic of 1893 (often miscalled by the
Republicans ‘‘the Cleveland panic’’) had
caused great financial loss and hardship in
the nation, especially in the South, and many
families found it impossible to send their
sons to college. My recollection is that
around 1900, the enrollment sank to 300 or
less, and cynics were predicting that unless
something radical was done (perhaps heroic is
a better word), the old college might have to
go out of existence as a number of others
were doing. But this was not to be. I am one
of those who believe that the spirit of Wash-

 

 

12

W&L

 

 

 

oe

ington and Lee is invincible and immortal.

In 1901, Dr. George H. Denny was
elected president over Mr. Tucker and the
Rev. Dr. H. A. White, a professor in the
University who had many advocates and ad-
mirers as, of course, did Mr. Tucker. This
election caused a furor in the town, since
everybody young and old had taken sides.

From time immemorial, the townspeople
have considered it their right and bounden
duty to tell the Trustees of the University in
advance what they ought to do and then to
abuse them violently and continually after-
ward, if they don’t do it.

Dr. Denny had been professor of Latin,
and was only 30 years old and relatively
unknown as compared with the two older
and more distinguished candidates. To ag-
gravate the situation, he was the son-in-law
of the Rev. G. B. Strickler, the rector of the
Board of Trustees.

It took many years for the prejudices
aroused by this election finally to be allayed,
if indeed they ever were, but Dr. Denny
proved to be a brilliant administrator and a
great college president.

He increased the number of students to
about 616 in 1912, when he resigned to be-
come the head of the University of Alabama.
The endowment was also increased by about
$800,000, and the old school was launched
on a glorious career of greater usefulness and
expansion which has continued to this day
under the leadership of President Francis P.
Gaines.

Our family moved from Charlotte to Lex-
ington in 1896 and for a year I went to a

preparatory school conducted by the late Col.

Francis H. Smith Jr., in what was then the
old Ann Smith Academy building located
across from the present post office. [That
building is now occupied by the Chi Psi
fraternity. ]

hen I entered Washington and Lee
in 1897, there were about 300 stu-
dents, a fine set of young men, prac-
tically all from the South and of Confederate
ancestry. For the magic of General Lee’s
name still had great drawing power. We were
all poor, some of us dirt-poor. I can’t recall
the son of a millionaire in the lot; if there

 

had been, the rest of us would have been
afraid or suspicious of him or both. There
were probably not more than a dozen stu-
dents who could have been considered
well-off.

As we were a comparatively small group,
and all in the same financial status, with the
same social background, we were naturally
congenial as we had nothing to fall out and
fight about. We were all hot Southerners and
Confederates, for the lengthening and de-
pressing shadows of the War between the
States still hung over us. If anyone had pre-
sumed to doubt the justice of the South’s
cause or the supreme military genius of Gen-
eral Lee and General Jackson, he would cer-
tainly have had an argument and probably a
fistfight on his hands. So as I look back,
they were above-the-average men, and almost
without exception, gentlemen who have had
useful and successful lives.

There were about nine Greek-letter frater-
nities at Washington and Lee in 1900; no
fraternity houses, the meetings usually being
held over some store. The fraternity spirit
was strong but not bitter, and no sharp or
permanent division existed between the frats
(Greeks) and non-frats (Barbarians) such as
has proved a curse to other institutions.

Of course, we had a lot of college politics
(is there any place where there are no poli-
tics?), and the fraternities were very active as
groups in seeking offices and preferment for
their respective members.

My first lessons in the dark and devious
art of politics were in the campaign to elect a
fellow Phi Kappa Psi brother, Lister Wither-
spoon of Kentucky, as president of the final
ball, then considered the highest college
honor. My recollection is he was first de-
feated and the next year elected, but I
learned a lot about politics in the process.

In 1900, there were two literary societies,
Washington and Graham Lee, the latter of
which I joined. Both had had long and use-
ful parts in college life but were poorly at-
tended except by students who, like myself,
expected to become lawyers. The average
number at regular meetings was less than 10.

Literary or debating societies in colleges
have an important place, and it is unfortu-
nate that they seem now to be somewhat in
the discard. The old-fashioned spread-eagle
oratory is no longer in style, but any busi-
nessman will tell you that nothing makes for

 

W&L

13

 

 

 

business advancement as much as the ability
to speak in public clearly and forcefully, and
training in this can best be gotten in the col-
lege debating societies.

The students had come from Christian
homes and took a good deal of interest in
the YMCA, which had more influence for
good than appeared on the surface. Some of
its leaders had great weight with the other
students because of their clean and consistent
Christian lives. On the whole, Washington
and Lee was then an essentially old-fashioned
Christian college, and I trust it will always
continue to be.

College athletics in 1900 was not the
highly organized and popular business it is
today. A few games of baseball and football
were played each year with other colleges
(usually in Virginia). I do not recall that
there were any paid coaches, and no such
thing had ever been heard of as inducing
athletes to come to Washington and Lee by
bonuses of ‘‘financial aid’’ for their edu-
cation. The fact that intercollegiate games
were permitted at all was quite an advance
from the days in the ’70s, when the rugged
old rector of the University, Judge William
McLaughlin, said tartly to a student commit-
tee who asked that the baseball team be al-
lowed to play in another town: ‘‘So, you
think it will help you in your education and
also the college for you to go knocking a
baseball all over the lot in other towns, do
you? Well, I don’t and you will never do it
as long as I am alive.”’

Amusements were few—four or five
dances during the year, with girls coming
from out of town; two billiards and pool
halls conducted by Squire William E. Gran-
ger and John LaRue, both located near what
is now the Dutch Inn; H. O. Dold’s store;
and a few Saturday night poker games at
which beer was the principal beverage—and
you about have it.

These were the places of the amusement,
but there was another vastly wider and more
exciting field of entertainment for the stu-
dents, and that was calling on and making
love to the Lexington girls. This was what
made their lives not only tolerable, but at
times thrilling. A popular belle would often
have 20 or more student callers in one night.
This. was made possible by the ‘‘running
system,’’ I think it was called, whereby it
was a point of honor for a student or group

 

 

who had called together to leave immediately
upon the arrival of the next caller. Many is
the heartache and argument this running
system caused, and I am wondering if it is
still the practice.

Washington and Lee was one of the first
colleges in the country to adopt the Honor
System, not only for examinations, but in
other phases of student life; and | am a
strong believer in it, largely because of my
personal observations when at college. I do
not remember a single case of a student even
being accused of cheating on examination,
nor of any conduct unbecoming a gentleman.

Courtesy, truthfulness, and consideration
for the other fellow were generally accepted
as the proper standards of conduct for a
Washington and Lee man. Some credit for
this should be given to the policy of putting
every student on his honor.

In 1900, there were two boat clubs, the
Harry Lee and the Albert Sidney, each with
a proud history. Everybody—not only in the
college, but in the town—was an ardent sup-
porter and known fan for one of the two.

As the time for the annual regatta ap-
proached, the most usual question asked was,
**Are you Albert Sidney or Harry Lee?”’
That was followed by a discussion as to
which would win. On the day of the contest,
just before Commencement Day, a large
crowd would assemble on the banks of North
River above the bridge to witness the finish,
but I remember very little betting, for the
gambling mania had not then become a
widespread ‘‘contagious disease’’
as it is now.

 

 

W&L

 

*

€

 

 

ee —

ommencement, as the final week of
the session in June was called, had a
fascination and importance all its own.
Degrees and honors were awarded and long-
winded sermons and speeches were delivered
by solemn-faced preachers (for the most part,
Presbyterians) and prominent statesmen.
They exhorted the graduates to realize that
life was real, life was earnest, and they
should always stand for the right and, as
Washington and Lee men, be true to the
ideals of George Washington and Robert E.
Lee.

And then the girls—those beautiful Com-
mencement girls that came flocking in from
all over the South. My mind goes back more
than half a century and I can yet feel the
thrill amounting almost to ecstasy of seeing
those girls on afternoons in June in their
white dresses, walking across the grass and
under the ancient trees in front of the Lee
Chapel.

I then thought and still think, that Para-
dise cannot afford a much more beautiful
sight. But under all conditions, the historic
Washington and Lee campus is to me the
most beautiful one in America, and I have
had the opportunity of visiting practically all
the leading universities in the country.

The line of stately buildings, impressive in
their simplicity and permanency, which face
the Front Campus are just as they were in
1900 except for the new Tucker Hall which,
however, is in perfect accord with the older
ones. It is a picture which represents what
the South has always stood for. I doubt if
there ever was a student at the college who
did not always afterward carry in his mind
and heart that picture, or ever failed to pray
that it would never be changed.

It is inevitable that with two colleges of
the same size, located on adjoining campuses,
there should be rivalry and at times tension
and bad feeling between their respective stu-
dent bodies. When I was at Washington and
Lee, the relationship between the schools was
much better than it had previously been, but
one fight between the ‘‘rats’’.and the
‘“‘minks’’ broke out about 1900 on the short
Street separating the campuses. Nobody was
hurt. I remember attending an indignant
meeting of our students in Graham Lee Hall
at which fire-eating speeches were made and
resolutions demanding VMI apologize were

 

es ye

 

adopted, etc., but nothing came of it except,
I believe, the intercollegiate games were sus-
pended for a short period. This kind of out-
break or bloodletting had happened before
and I suppose it has happened since.

There is much truth in the old oft-quoted
saying that a real university can be where a
student is sitting on one end of a log in the
woods with a great professor on the other
end. In 1900, the college had about 20 pro-
fessors and associate professors, many of
them outstanding men.

The especial value of the instruction we
received lay in the fact that it was personal.
Every teacher not only knew the name of
every student, but knew about him, and thus
was in a better position to instruct him.

I will mention only a few of the profes-
sors whom I knew best, though there were
others equally deserving of praise.

The Rev. James Charles, an elderly Pres-
byterian minister, was professor of mental
and moral philosophy and a common-sense
philosopher. His homely and realistic ap-
proach to his highly abstract branch of learn-
ing made him popular with his students, and
I personally learned much in his classes.

He was very unconventional and shocked
the pious Presbyterians by riding his bicycle
everywhere in totally non-clerical garb, with
his pants often rolled up to his knees, but lit-
tle he cared. God bless him.

Dr. Addison Hogue, who married Miss
Emily Smith, my mother’s sister, was pro-
fessor of Greek. He was a man of vast learn-
ing and an elder in the Presbyterian church,
who, more than any other man I ever knew,
lived meticulously by the rigid Calvinistic
code. He carried this into the grading of
students, often not passing them because, ac-
cording to his system, they had failed by the
fraction of a point to reach the required 75
percent. This made him unpopular and he
was the butt of much ridicule. His nickname
was Judas, why I could never understand,
for I never knew anyone who loved his
Savior more passionately or served Him more
faithfully.

He had had the spelling of his name
changed from Hoge to Hogue, which caused
the campus wits to chant, ‘‘Hog by name
and Hog by nature, changed to Hogue by act
of Legislature.’’ He bore these jibes with dig-
nity and Christian resignation, but I know
they hurt him. He was a good man and

W&L

 

15

 

 

helped many young students, myself includ-
ed, who revere his memory.

Dr. William Spencer Currell (old Jingles)
was professor of English, a charming South
Carolinian, a fine teacher and gifted speaker,
with a keen, and at times, caustic wit. He
married the beautiful Miss Sarah Carrington,
a granddaughter of Gov. McDowell of Lex-
ington, and they had seven girls but no son,
which caused Col. J. D. H. Ross, a famous
Lexingtonian of the time, to quip that every
day was a gala day in the Currell home. Dr.
Currell afterward became president of the
University of South Carolina.

Dr. Edwin Fay (Patsy) was a professor of
Latin and a gifted linguist. He was an old
bachelor when he came to Lexington, a
bookworm, and set in his ways. It was a
campus joke that upon arriving he told his
landlady that his digestion was very poor,
and he would have to request that his food
be prepared exactly at the temperature of his
lips, whereupon some local wag suggested
that the only way this could be accomplished
would be for him to go out before each meal
and kiss the cook. But love overtook Dr. Fay
late in life and he married a Miss Hemphill,
the charming daughter of the Rev. Dr.
Charles R. Hemphill, a distinguished Pres-
byterian minister of Louisville, Ky., was
much improved by matrimony as all of us
are, and had a very happy life.

Dr. La Conte Stevens, a kindly and cour-
teous bachelor, was professor of physics.
While my education was unfortunately veered
away from the sciences, which has been a
lifelong regret, I used to talk with him (Sissy
Stevens was his nickname) and he gave me
some insight into what science was doing and
would do for the world. For this I have al-
ways been grateful. He afterward married
Miss Virginia Letcher, the accomplished
daughter of Gov. John Letcher of Virginia.

David Carlisle Humphreys (old Davy) was
professor of engineering, universally respect-
ed and beloved. His students swore by him
and in turn he took the greatest interest in
them and pride in their careers after leaving
college. Professor Humphreys was a native of
Augusta County and knew more about the
history of the Valley and about Washington
and Lee and its graduates than any other
man on the faculty.

Dr: H. Parker Willis, professor of eco-
nomics, was probably the most brilliant man

 

on the faculty, a tireless student, overflowing
with nervous energy and ever on the quest
for new ideas and viewpoints. He was an in-
spiration to his students. He later went to
Washington, where he made a national repu-
tation as an economist. Dr. Willis married
Miss Rosa Brooke, daughter of the famous
John Mercer Brooke of VMI.

Professor Alexander L. Nelson (old Alec
as he was known to several generations of
W&L men) was professor of mathematics
and a great teacher with an unusual gift of
clear statement. He was very kind to me, and
I reverence his memory.

On one occasion when I continued to be
too dumb to understand his explanation of
some problem in trigonometry, he said with
some impatience, ‘‘Mr. Preston, you are just
like the other members of your family for
whom I have had to torture my conscience to
pass in intermediate mathematics so they
could get their A.B. degrees. None of you
have any sense at all about mathematics.”’

The professor was entirely correct, but he
tortured his conscience one more time and let
me barely squeak through intermediate math.
God rest him, too.

The dear old dean, Harry Campbell, a
very pleasant and learned scientist and a
delightful gentleman, when I was unable to
understand some theory in his biology class,
similarly animadverted on ‘‘me and my
folks’’ but, by way of salve, added that they
had, however, attained some distinction as
politicians and preachers.

The relationship between students and
teachers in those days was delightfully per-
sonal and informal.

Dr. James Lewis Howe has been a public
benefactor, lending a hand to all good
causes. All honor to him.

No student at Washington and Lee ever
failed to love John L. Campbell Sr., the trea-
surer, one of the sweetest spirits and most
courteous, helpful gentlemen who ever lived;
nor Miss Annie Jo White, who gave her life
to the college and helping ‘‘her’’ students.

The Washington and Lee School of Law
was founded by the late federal Judge John
W. Brockenbrough of Lexington, believed to
have been the man who persuaded Gen.
Robert E. Lee to accept the presidency of the
college. Its most famous teacher was former
Congressman John Randolph Tucker, one of
the most learned Constitutional lawyers the

 

16

W&L

 

 

eee

South ever produced. But for an unfortunate
incident he would probably have been attor-
ney general under Grover Cleveland.

After Mr. Tucker’s death prior to 1900,
John W. Davis (who died in New York in
April 1955) had completed several years of
service as law teacher in his stead. He had
just embarked on his brilliant legal career,
which carried him to the top of his profes-
sion, being often called the greatest lawyer of
his generation in America.

In 1900, when I entered law school, it
had three professors, a two-year course, and
about 50 students. The dean was the Hon.
Henry St. George Tucker (old Harry), a
learned and charming gentleman of the old
school. The son of John Randolph Tucker,
he had previously represented the Lexington
district in Congress (the old 10th, I believe),
as his father had before him.

Subsequently, after the death of Rep. Hal
Flood, he was returned to his old seat in
Congress and remained there until his death,
for he was universally beloved by the people
of his district.

Mr. Tucker had studied Constitutional
law throughout his life and understood and
believed in its fundamental principles. In his
lectures on this branch of jurisprudence, he
had the happy faculty of giving color and in-
terest to the dry-as-dust profundities of the
law, by the use of a good story or a homely
illustration drawn from his experiences in
political life. He thus drove home his points
in a way which would not be forgotten.

His favorite saying was, ‘‘The proof of
the pudding is the chawing of the bag,’’ a
reference to the old custom of preparing a
pudding in a cloth bag. Like the other pro-
fessors, ‘‘Old Harry’’ was universally popular
with the students.

Judge Martin P. Burks (Daddy Burks)
was essentially a man of law. He ate, slept,
and dreamed of law and was a walking en-
cyclopedia of Virginia law and decisions. His
method of teaching was in the form of a
pleasant personal discussion, with many ques-
tions and answers tossed back and forth be-
tween teacher and student, and it proved very
effective. At the time Judge Burks was clerk
of the Court of Appeals of Virginia and was
Said to have written, or at least revised,
many of its important decisions. Subsequent-
ly, he became a member of that court and
had a distinguished career on the bench. He

 

 

was universally beloved. I never heard any-
one criticize him and don’t believe he ever
had a personal enemy.

The third, and youngest, member of the
law faculty was William Reynolds Vance, a
brilliant young Kentuckian who subsequently
became a professor at Yale, where he made a
national reputation. He was one of the great-
est contemporary authorities on the law of
insurance and author of several standard
works on the subject.

Reynolds Vance was a man of prodigious
energy (I never knew a harder worker) and
vast learning. His method of instruction, like
that of Judge Burks, was by question and
answer, though Vance prepared himself care-
fully and was more formal. He had the abili-
ty to show up, politely, a student’s ignorance
and faulty reasoning better than any other
teacher I ever saw.

One of his finest qualities was loyalty to
his friends. John W. Davis, his roommate at
college and his hero, could do no wrong.

During the past 50 years at the bar, I
have been interested in legal education and it
is my opinion (for whatever it may be worth)
that no law students received finer training in
the fundamentals of the law at the beginning
of the present century than did those attend-
ing Washington and Lee.

My reason for saying this is that we were
fortunate in having as teachers three great-
souled men who, in addition to their regular
duties, made it a point to encourage every
one of us to come to their offices after class
at any time, day or night, and talk over our
problems. This personal attention is some-
thing rarely found in law schools and proved
of invaluable assistance.

n a few years, all of us here present will

have passed into the shadows. But Lex-

ington and Washington and Lee will con-
tinue to stand out on high through the suc-
ceeding generations as mighty beacons shed-
ding the pure light of Christian morality and
religious and political freedom on the
pathway of young men who will come to this
historic place for instruction and guidance.

These are the fundamental principles
upon which our country was founded and
has grown great, and they must always be
taught and adhered to, else America will
surely perish.

W&L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Mystery of

ADDICTION

 

Dr. Fred Frick,’74, Helps Patients Cope
With Drug Dependency

Sit down and talk
for a while with Dr.
Fred Frick, ’74, and

you will come away by Mike Stachura, ’86
wondering whether

 

 

most pressing prob-
lems facing American
society today—drug
addiction.

As an authority

you’ve been conversing with a classical scholar, an inter- on drug addiction, Frick speaks about the disease with a
nist, an English professor, a psychiatrist, a chemist, a steady voice that is at the same time charged with energy-
historian, or a golf nut. This man is clearly well-versed in his subject matter.
Truth is, you probably have been talking to all of Whether he’s quoting chapter and verse from the New
those at the same time. It is the jack-of-all-trades ap- England Journal of Medicine, explaining the gabachloride
proach, Frick says, that helps him deal with one of the channel complex, or making a reference to Neil Young,

18 W&L

 

 

s audience—whether it’s a conference of doc-

he owns hi
ditorium of college students, or a single, strug-

tors, an au

gling alcoholic. |
Yet there is more to this problem, Frick says, than

neurochemical sites or reams of research papers. The
equation is sometimes simple, and the cure is not nec-
essarily found in medicine alone but in some other place,
such as a Buddhist tenet or a Shakespearean sonnet or a
Latin epigram. Frick might be labeled and professionally
certified as a chemical dependency consultant, but in
reality he has become quite the humanist.

‘‘} don’t think the answer to recovery from chemical
dependency lies in finding some strange biochemical
key,’’ he said last winter, while taking a break from a
series of speaking engagements during Washington and
Lee’s Drug Awareness Week. “‘I do not think that is the
answer. I think the answer lies in applying what we al-
ready know is time-proven, like recovering self-discipline
through the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous.

‘‘Over the past 20 years, medicine has tried to intel-
lectualize addiction and say, ‘Well, if we use this kind of
psychotherapy, and if we administer you this antidepres-
sant and increase these neurotransmitters, you won’t
drink again.’ For a few people, that is true, but for most
people it isn’t. I think the key is understanding the
human condition.”’

Frick admits he hasn’t cornered the market on the
human-condition riddle. (‘‘If I knew that, I would win a
Nobel Prize.’’) Still, he presses on in an occupation
whose rewards, provided they come at all, are delayed
well beyond the point of ordinary frustration. It’s not the
type of work you would expect from a doctor who re-
ceived his early training in internal medicine.

Frick graduated from Washington and Lee with
honors in 1974. He majored in chemistry, and he hap-
pily recalls his days under the tutelage of Professor
Keith Shillington, when he says ‘‘not a rare Saturday
night would be spent in the chemistry library.’’ Frick
returned the favor by speaking at a chemistry seminar
during his recent stay at W&L.

He received his M.D. from Indiana University
School of Medicine in 1978. Following his time as an
intern and resident, he spent five years in private prac-
tice, working in internal medicine and critical
care. It was a successful, albeit demanding,
existence for Frick. But something else
began to attract his attention.

‘*] had always had a side interest in
addiction,’’ he says. ‘‘I started doing it
a little bit part time, almost as an avoca-
tion in addition to my internal medicine.
Then my interest grew and grew. The
Opportunity arose to do it full time and
move to sunny Florida and spend more
time with my family.

‘“‘My interest started being purely
scientific and technical, but the more
time I spent in the field, the more I
became interested in the emotional and

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

spiritual nature of the disease. That has become very in-
teresting for me.’’

What started as an avocation became a vocation for
Frick. His resume now is dotted with line items like ‘‘Co-
founder, Addiction Medicine Associates’’ and ‘‘Consul-
tant, Drug Abuse Foundation of Palm Beach County”’
and ‘‘Treatment Provider and Continuing Care Super-
visor, The Physicians’ Recovery Network of Florida.’’

Currently the medical director at Anon Anew, a re-
habilitation center in Boca Raton, Fla., Frick is regarded
as a leading authority on the problems of addiction.
Among his other duties, he recently helped establish a
drug-testing program for the Women’s International Ten-
nis Association.

In his personal as well as his professional life, he is
surrounded by addiction. ‘‘Almost all my friends are
recovering individuals,’’ he says. It is a consuming preoc-
cupation, this war with substance abuse. Frick is angry
people remain addicted. He is angry about societal indif-
ference. He is especially angry about socially accepted
drugs like alcohol and nicotine. |

‘‘T am not against drinking alcohol,’’ Frick told his
WA&L audience. ‘‘I am against drinking alcoholically. Of
course, the other drug our society uses that is highly ad-
dictive is nicotine. Nicotine kills about 1,000 people a
day. That’s the equivalent of three 747s crashing into
House Mountain every day. We talk a lot about the war
on drugs. The war on drugs needs to be fought at R. J.
Reynolds. That’s where the war on drugs needs to be
fought.’”’

Despite the frustration

<
~ +
x =

Z ‘“ . ' that he feels, Frick believes

he’s actually helping peo-

ple more now than when
he was in critical-care
medicine.

**T got tired of
working my a-- off to
have a 45-year-old

father of three die of a
massive heart attack,’’ he
says. ‘‘I figured somebody

else could do that. Most of

my patients get well now. I

kind of like that.’’

But getting well is

not easy. It re-
quires a lot
of work,
primarily
because the
patients
themselves
have to de-
cide they
want to be
cured.

Many are

not willing

W&L 19

 

to make that decision.

‘*It’s not the individual’s fault he or she is an ad-
dict,’’ Frick explains. ‘‘But it sure as hell is the indi-
vidual’s responsibility to get well. Sometimes it is ex-
tremely frustrating for people who repeatedly do not get
well. As a physician, you are taught that the patient is
supposed to do what you tell him. And when he does
what you tell him he gets well. I have patients that say,
‘Gee, doc, you are full of s---.’ That happens to me
every day.’’

No page in the physician’s handbook covers such a
retort. Chemical dependency isn’t like cancer or heart
disease or a broken bone. The healing process isn’t or-
dered; the path to recovery isn’t clear. That’s the nature
of the disease of chemical dependency, Frick says.

‘‘When people ask me what the etiology of alcoholism
is, I say it is a bio-, psycho-, social disease: ‘bio’ mean-
ing the genetics, ‘psycho’ meaning the psychological or
the emotional makeup of the individual, and ‘social’
meaning the environment of the individual. So it is a
multifactorial cause.”’

With so various a beginning, chemical dependency can
grow in any number of directions, the condition intensi-
fying with leaps and bounds. And with new forms of ad-
diction becoming more prevalent every day, Frick’s field
of study continues to expand as rapidly as the problem
does. He has had to become familiar with AIDS. He
must know about new drugs, what’s being snorted,
what’s being smoked, and what their effects are. The
enormity of the crisis can be discouraging.

‘‘I see a number of people who are HIV-positive from
playing with needles,’’ he says. ‘‘That virus has changed
my job a lot. I have to sit down and talk to a lot of peo-
ple and inform them that they are positive from the

20 W&L

 

AIDS virus. That job is not a lot of fun. My patients
that are HIV-positive don’t get well.’’

Disheartening, too, is the fact that many of Frick’s
patients are well-to-do, successful, educated people. Peo-
ple who should know better but don’t. People who have
so much to lose. As a consultant to the Florida Physi-
cians’ Recovery Network and Florida Lawyers’ Assistance
Inc., Frick is responsible for going to the office of a phy-
sician or a lawyer and escorting him or her to drug
rehabilitation.

Why do people become addicts? Frick doesn’t know.

‘*T read a lot on the ideologic theory of chemical de-
pendence, but why humans use intoxicants I have no
idea,’’ he says. ‘‘There is an ancient Latin epigram that
basically says there are five reasons why men drink. As it
turns out, they’re not really reasons at all.

‘*T have many patients with immense wealth who are
absolutely miserable people. I treat a fair number of co-
caine dealers. This guy has six BMWs, a bikini-clad
woman on each arm, and he’s drinking Dom Perignon
champagne and there is a pile of coke on the kitchen
table overlooking the ocean, and the guy is miserable.
That is what impresses me about the spirituality of addic-
tion.”’

And so addiction persists. Together, the depth of the
problem coupled with its complexity would leave the
heartiest of souls searching for some sort of release.
Frick does get some relief from golf, where he can let
out some of his anxiety. (He will happily tell you about
the recent 82 he shot.) And he has a wife and three
children to show him some happiness in a world that
isn’t always joyful. It is clear they are his most important

continued on page 37

 

 

 

The W&L Spring

AZETTE

3 '
| .

In Recognition of

 

 

 

 

 

EP el ccee tte! Sydney Lewis
AL ts Gm atte lsbbicbace
She belay ea Crees
Andrew M. Rat
Susan Lewis Butler

ey natok mer teta atk suppO!

ea

Washingto® and Lee Orthas

nae DA,

Ir is upo® eych gene

roul

 

institution ee hs)

 

and upon ™ ie

RVs aiets for tee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

W&L

|

Hundreds of alumni return for weekend

ooo= 2ZO=—-zZzCc

More than 700 alumni and
their spouses and children
returned to Washington and Lee
in May for alumni reunion
weekend.

The attendance figure set a
record for the sixth consecutive
year. In 1989, more than 630
alumni came to Lexington for
the event.

The weekend began Thursday
evening, with the traditional
Opening assembly. Ross V.
Hersey, °40, a motivational
speaker and _ self-proclaimed
‘*King of the Shaggy Dog
Story,’’ gave the keynote
address.

On Friday and Saturday,
alumni attended special reunion
panel discussions, banquets, a
glee club concert, and a recep-
tion honoring retiring members
of the faculty and administra-
tion. An unusual addition to the
reunion schedule this year was
the showing of a film, ‘‘Two
Centuries of Service,’’ which was
produced in 1948 in anticipation
of the University’s bicentennial.
The film included rare footage of

President Francis P. Gaines,
Professors O. W. ‘‘Tom’’ Riegel
and James H. Starling, and other
members of the W&L faculty,
administration, and student
body. It was produced
by A. Lea Booth, ’40,
who was working at
the University at the
time.

On Saturday morning, the
Law School Association and the
Alumni Association gathered for
their annual meeting in Lee
Chapel. During the joint
assembly, three reunion classes
presented special gifts to the
University.

To celebrate its 50th reunion,
the class of 1940 presented a gift
of $2,068,088 to the University.
The class gift creates a new
scholarship fund and under-
writes the renovation of Old
George. (See story on page 2.)

Members of the class of 1965,
meanwhile, announced they were
giving $211,706 to create an
**Endowment for Excellence in
Teaching.’’ The endowment will
fund special grants to members
of the faculty to recognize and
promote excellence in teaching at
Washington and Lee.

The law class of 1965
presented a gift of $15,000 to

 

help establish an endowment for
the University’s new Leaders in
Law and Commerce Program.
The fund will support special]
upper-level, intensive research
seminars that will bring together
law and undergraduate students
in interdisciplinary study.

**The four previous 25th rey-
nion classes have presented the
University with special gifts
totaling $1,223,000,’’ said Lex
McMillan, ’72, director of
development, in announcing the
reunion gift efforts. ‘‘The last
four 50th reunion classes have
made gifts totaling $3,175,000.
These collective efforts have
strengthened the University
substantially, both through ad-
ditions to the endowment and
through enhancements to the
physical plant.

**All of us who care about
Washington and Lee are deeply
grateful to those who have pro-
vided the necessary leadership to
bring these reunion gifts to a suc-
cessful conclusion.’’

During the assembly, the
University paid special tribute to
one of the leaders of the class of
1940, Sydney Lewis. A plaque
was unveiled in honor of Lewis,
his wife, Frances, and their
children. The plaque will hang

”

.

 

 

 

 

 

(Clockwise from lower left, opposite page): A stu-
dent speaks to Peyton Rice, ’40, and Ed Blair, °40;
Ollie Mendell, ’50, Al Darby, ’43, and William
Clements, ’50, receive the Distinguished Alumnus
Awards; Fred Feddeman and Jack Akin greet
friends from the Class of ’40; Jack Watson, °40,
and Katie Watson enjoy a reunion seminar; pro-
JSessor of music emeritus Robert Stewart leads the
Glee Club; Jim Farrar, ’49 (second from right),
retiring associate director of special programs, and
Anne Farrar (left), associate director of develop-
ment, speak with Anne Jennings and Jack De-
Jarnette, 65; President Wilson greets an alumnus.

permanently in Washington
Hall, near the Benefactors’ Wall.

The plaque reads, ‘‘In rec-
cognition of Frances and Sydney
Lewis and their children, Sydney
Lewis Jr., Andrew M. Lewis,
and Susan Lewis Butler, for their
magnificent support of Wash-
ington and Lee University. It is
upon such generosity that this in-
stitution was founded and upon
which it depends for its future.’’

In presenting the plaque,
President John D. Wilson said,
‘*Together over these many
decades, [Sydney and Frances
Lewis] have lived lives of
magnanimous concern for the
success and the happiness of
others. Their generous, caring
spirits have touched countless
lives and will continue to do so
through the permanent benefac-
tions they have provided many,
many useful social institutions.

‘‘Washington and Lee has
always stood in the center of
their affection and has been the
beneficiary of the greatest of
their gifts.’’

Also during the assembly, the
Alumni Association recognized
three W&L graduates with
Distinguished Alumnus Awards.
The recipients were William N.
Clements, °50, of Baltimore;
Albert D. Darby Jr., °43, of
Martinsburg, W.Va.; and Oliver
M. Mendell, 50, of New York
City.

Clements is president and
chief executive officer of Sum-
mers Fuel Inc. and Ryan Fincor
Coal Reclamation Corp. He
served as president of W&L’s
Alumni Board of Directors in
1985-86. He has served as class
reunion chairman, class agent,
and a member of The Wash-
ington Society, an organization
of former alumni board mem-
bers. He has been active in the
Baltimore alumni chapter as
well.

Darby retired three years ago
as co-city editor of the
Cumberland News in Cum-
berland, Md. He is a class agent
and a member of The Wash-
ington Society. From 1969 to
1987 he led the activities of the

 

 

W&L

23

 

Upper Potomac alumni chapter.

Mendell is senior vice presi-
dent with Chemical Bank. He is
a former class agent and vice
chairman of the Annual Fund.
He has been a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors and
The Washington Society and has
been active in the New York
alumni chapter.

Also recognized during the an-
nual meeting was Richard B.
Sessoms, who is leaving his post
as director of alumni programs
in July to join the University’s
development office.

**Dick has been tremendous
for our Alumni Association,”’
said John D. Klinedinst, ’71,
*78L, president of the associa-
tion. ‘‘He has provided en-
thusiasm, excitement, ingenuity,
and creativity to us all.’’

Sessoms was named an
honorary alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Changes in alumni leadership
were announced during the an-
nual meeting. John W. Robin-
son IV, ’72, of Tampa took over
as president of the association.
J. Richard O’Connell, ’56, ’58L,

of Baltimore is the new vice
president.

Elected to four-year terms as
directors of the association were
Robert S. Keefe, ’68, of New
York City; Charles T. McCord
III, 63, of Houston; Mason T.
New, ’62, of Richmond; William
J. Russell Jr., ’57, of Malvern,
Pa.; and J. Frank Surface Jr.,
°60, of Jacksonville, Fla.

The Law School Association
elected J. Hardin Marion, ’55,
*S8L, of Baltimore as its new
president. He succeeds Norman

Lauderdale, Fla. James A.
Philpott Jr., °69, ’72L, of Lex-
ington, Ky., was elected vice
president. The new members of
the Law School Council are
James W. Jennings Jr., ’65,
*72L, of Roanoke; Thomas M.
Millhiser, ’81L, of Richmond;
and W. Bryce Rea Jr., ’39, ’41L,
and Thomas K. Wotring, ’75L,
both of Washington, D.C.

C. Roettger Jr., ’58L, of Fort

a

WR ca
EN ‘tte c- pes

(Clockwise from lower left): Two alumni reminisce
at banquet. Annual Fund awards are given to: class
of 1981 (accepted by Tim McMahon, ’87, director of
the Annual Fund), the Bierer Trophy; class of ’73L
(accepted by Jess Crumbley), the Malone Trophy;
class of ’59 (accepted by Mason New, ’62, chairman
of the Annual Fund), the Washington Trophy; class
of ’75 (accepted by class agent Ben Philpott), the J.
N. Thomas Trophy; class of ’40 (accepted by class
agent Ross Hersey), the Richmond Trophy. Hersey
(left) presents a door prize to Ollie Mendell, ’50
(right), during a party at the student pavilion, while
Jim Farrar, ’74, looks on. Members of the class of
40 arrive on the campus. Jack Broome, ’40 (left)
displays his freshman beanie for Howard Gist, ’40.
Arnold Raphael, ’40, tries on his class costume.
Hugh Robinson, ’80 (left), and Art Caltrider, ’80,
study the reunion schedule.

 

 

 

24 W&L

a

 

aN

_

<*
%

   
   

  

\
g
a
} o ,

: Ss

-_

—
Pe ae

te aft y,
ae? . 4

ae

 

McMillan named
to new post

Lex O. McMillan III, ’72,
director of development at
Washington and Lee, has been
named to the newly created posi-
tion of executive director of
development.

In his new role, McMillan will
continue his direction of the
University’s various fund-raising
programs. He will also have
added executive duties in the
area of general University
advancement.

In announcing the new ap-
pointment, Farris P. Hotchkiss,
58, vice president for Universi-
ty relations, said, ‘‘Dr.
McMillan’s widening role in
overall University relations ac-
tivities deserves to be recognized
by this newly established ex-
ecutive directorship. As a result
of the completion of the Univer-
Sity’s long-range plan and
preparations now underway for
a responsive capital campaign,
the size and complexity of
University relations efforts re-
quire more encompassing
attention.

**Lex McMillan, as an alum-
nus and seasoned development
officer, brings this institution a
great deal of strength and
dedication. I am happy that we
can recognize his increased
responsibilities with his new ti-
tle.’’

McMillan holds a master’s
degree from Georgia State
University and a doctorate from
the University of Notre Dame.
He was director of development
at Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland, Va., before coming to
Washington and Lee in 1987.

 

a

Edgar Spencer, Ronald Bacigal win Virginia faculty awards

Two Washington and Lee alumni recently received Outstanding
Faculty Awards from Virginia’s State Council of Higher Education.

Edgar W. Spencer, ’53, professor of geology at W&L, and
Ronald J. Bacigal, ’67L, a professor of law at the University of Rich-
mond, were two of 13 faculty members chosen from throughout the
state to receive the honor in May.

Spencer is the fifth W&L professor to receive the award since
it was created four years ago by Virginia’s General Assembly.

The award is designed to recognize outstanding contributions to
teaching, research, and public service. It carries a $5,000 cash prize.

Spencer joined the W&L faculty in 1957. He has received grants
from the National Science Foundation, the American Geological In-
stitute, the American Chemical Society, and the Mellon Founda-
tion. He has participated in field studies in western North America,
New Zealand, Australia, Greece, Scotland, and Scandinavia.

Bacigal has twice received the Distinguished Educator Award
from the University of Richmond. In 1986 he was chosen by the
National Endowment for the Humanities as a Bicentennial Research
Fellow. He is chairman of the criminal justice section of the
American Association of Law Schools.

Past W&L recipients of the Outstanding Faculty Awards have
included Philip L. Cline, ’67, professor of administration and
economics; Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of psychology; Brian C.
Murchison, associate professor of law; and Sidney M. B. Coulling,
’48, professor of English.

 

Bacigal

 

Sophomores Tommy Mazziotti, left, and Will Jones participate in the spring Annual Fund phonathon for
alumni. During the phonathon student volunteers raised approximately $52,000 for the fund, which sup-

ports the University’s operating budget.

W&L

 

25

 

 

 

Briggs gives Phi Beta Kappa address

Thirty-one Washington and
Lee students and three graduates
were inducted into Washington
and Lee’s chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa during the annual con-
vocation in March.

The keynote speaker for the
convocation was Ward W.
Briggs Jr., °67, professor of
classics at the University of
South Carolina and the author
of nine books.

Briggs began his address by
reminiscing about his years at
Washington and Lee. ‘‘It seems
to me as I consider the world of
higher education,’’ he said,
**that some students have men-
tors, and other fortunate few
have colleagues, but at Wash-
ington and Lee, I and my fellow
students had professors who
were genuinely friends, who
cultivated us not for popularity

contests or necessarily because
they had said all they had to say
to their colleagues, but because
they were genuinely interested in
and delighted by our thoughts
and reactions to their ideas; for
we were fresh, for our geo-
graphical as well as intellectual
diversity made us interesting.’’

Briggs’ address, which was
titled ‘‘The Enduring Heritage:
Classics in the South,’’ examined
the influence of Greek ideals in
the South during the 19th cen-
tury. ‘‘Greek flourished in the
South as nowhere else in
America at the time,’’ Briggs
said, ‘‘but romantic attachment
to antiquity had its strict limits.

**Though planters lived in
Greek revival mansions, and
though they had themselves
depicted in classical dress for for-
mal statues (as had their cavalier
models) and though the sprin-
kling of their oratory and writing
with classical mots delighted
them, the limits of this purely
romantic attachment can be seen
in their early refusal to allow
Greek notions of democracy or
mixed government to impinge on
their cherished aristocracy any
more than they allowed the gods
of Hesiod into their church.

**Romanticism in the North
tended to be progressive, refor-
mist, or utopian, encouraging
transcendentalism and the aboli-
tionist movement. In the South,
while promoting individualism,
it tended to enshrine the old way
of life and reinforce conservative
beliefs, resulting in a regressive
anti-reformist past.’’

Political thinker and South
Carolinian John C. Calhoun
looked to the Greek system as
the perfect example of demo-
cracy, Briggs said. Calhoun

Smith fund receives contributions from Tribune, Media General

The Tampa Tribune and its parent company, Media General, have pledged gifts of $8,000 each
to the Todd Smith Memorial Fund at Washington and Lee.
Smith, a 1983 graduate of W&L, was a reporter for the 7ribune. He was killed in Peru last November
while doing research for a story on drug trafficking.
The gift commitments from the Tribune and Media General bring the fund to more than $53,000.
Nearly 400 donors have contributed to the Smith fund, which will provide stipends for W&L jour-
nalism students to travel and study abroad.

26 W&L

believed “‘the basic assumption
of pure democracy is a partner-
ship of equals, but clearly in the
real world societies are com-
posed of strong and weak, good
and evil, productive and un-
productive citizens, and so a
universal democracy is impossi-
ble. The weak will either be ex-
ploited by the strong minority or
they will become wards of socie-
ty and protected by the free; in
either case, they become wage
slaves or bond slaves and are in-
capable of holding the rights of
free citizens because of their
dependent state. Said Calhoun,
democracy is possible only in a
state that recognizes the essential
inequality of people but in which
the virtuous and capable work in
partnership to protect the in-
competent in the interests of
society at large.’’

Southern intellectuals used
this notion to justify slavery,
Briggs said. ‘‘Slaves were black,
therefore whites could not be
slaves, therefore all white men
were free, thus we lived in a
white democracy,”’ he explained.
‘**This use of the Greek ideal also
attempted to answer Northern
critics by throwing into relief the
‘wage-slavery’ of Northern labor
exploitation in the midst of
Puritan sanctimony. They set the
domestic plantation against the
impersonal factory; in short,
slavery was more humane than
the almighty dollar.’’

Yet such notions were becom-
ing obsolete, Briggs said. ‘*The
ideal of fifth-century Athens, in
which no one ever questioned the
need or fact of slavery, was out
of place in a world clamoring for
its abolition. Uncle Tom’s Cabin
told the world more about the
moral basis of Southern society
than all the rationalizations of its
apologists. The momentum of
history was clearly against the
South, and no recourse to any
ancient model, no matter how
widely revered, could be of any
service when the minie balls
started flying.”’

 

 

For the second year in a row,
African-American alumni of
Washington and Lee returned to
the campus in March for a
special meeting with current
black students.

The Minority Student/Alum-
ni Conference brought together
14 W&L graduates and their
families and a sizable number of
students, from both the under-
graduate divisions and the
School of Law. Also attending
were 22 African-American high
school students who had applied
to W&L.

The weekend event began Fri-
day, March 23, with a panel
discussion, in which members of
W&L’s administration spoke to
the prospective students about
academics and campus life. Par-
ticipating in the discussion were
John W. Elrod, vice president
for academic affairs; William M.
Hartog, dean of admissions and
financial aid; Anece F.
McCloud, associate dean of
Students for minority and inter-
National affairs; Kenneth P.
Ruscio, ’76, assistant dean of
Students for freshmen and
residence life; and Michael F.
Walsh, director of athletics.

That session was followed by
another panel discussion, this

 

i

 

 

one led by alumni. The par-
ticipants were John X. Miller,
°77, Derrick W. M. Freeman,
°86, Thomas W. Penn, ’74, and
William B. Hill Jr., ’74, ’77L.

Miller, who is the deputy
sports editor for USA Today,
spoke first. ‘“The Washington
and Lee experience was very
valuable for me, because I had
no question when I left here that
my academic skills were among
the best in the country,’’ Miller
said. ‘‘After graduating, when I
finally decided to be a journalist,
I had no problem finding a job.

**] chose Washington and Lee
for two reasons,’’ he added.
‘*First, because of its academic
excellence. Secondly, I felt that
as a black American, Washing-
ton and Lee was a community
that I needed to experience in
order to feel confident in the real
world. No matter if you’re a
white or black female, black or
white male, Washington and Lee
is going to offer you a lot of dif-
ferent challenges. If you want to
come here and find those chal-
lenges and surmount them, they
will make you a better person.’’

The next speaker was
Freeman, who told the students,
**When I was an undergrad, you
could knock on someone’s door

e

 

Michael F. Walsh, W&L’s director of athletics, addresses prospective students during the minority weekend.

Alumni, prospective students attend minority weekend

any time of the day or night with
a problem, whether it was about
school or something personal,
and there was always someone
there to help you out. The pro-
fessors were there also, but the
camaraderie that developed
among the students provided a
better opportunity for success
here, and I don’t think that’s
changed.”’

Penn, whose son, Courtney, is
a sophomore at W&L, said, ‘‘I
came to W&L because they re-
cruited me. I went to an all-black
high school in Roanoke. There
were alumni in the area who got
some of us interested in the
school. They sent a driver to
bring us to review the campus.
I was impressed with that. I
mean, Roanoke’s only 50 miles
away. There were people who
thought enough of us to say,
‘Hey, look. You’ve got to see
this campus.’ ”’

Penn continued, ‘‘I never told
Courtney to come to W&L. Not
because I didn’t think it was a
good school. But often the things
young people’s parents most
want them to do, they won’t do.
But he made the decision, and I
was satisfied. I think highly of
the school. It will look after you
and try to do the things necessary

to keep you here.”’

Rounding out the discussion
was Hill, who is senior deputy at-
torney general in Atlanta. ‘“‘I
went to an all-black high school
and lived in an all-black
neighborhood,’ he said. ‘‘When
I got out of law school and went
back to Atlanta and started prac-
ticing, I caught up with some of
my high school friends. I was do-
ing the circuit down in Futch
County, and they were doing
prison terms in the Georgia State
Prison. It was like class reunion.
I run into them now, and they’re
in and out of jail. They call me
up needing a good defense
lawyer.

**One of the reasons I came to
W&L was because I had to get
out of that environment. I didn’t
want to live the rest of my life
like that. I wasn’t exactly sure
what I wanted to do, but I did
know that I didn’t want to come
home everyday and clean the dirt
from under my fingernails.’’

During the remainder of the
weekend, the alumni and stu-
dents attended social gatherings
and more presentations and
panel discussions.

‘Both the 1989 and 1990
Minority Student/Alumni Con-
ferences have been regarded by
all parties as successful events,’’
James D. Farrar Jr., ’74, asso-
ciate alumni director, said at the
weekend’s conclusion. ‘‘These
conferences have allowed the
University to bring our minori-
ty alumni up-to-date with the ac-
tivities of W&L’s currently
enrolled black students and to
familiarize them with the Univer-
sity’s goals related to minority
recruitment and retention.

‘‘But they also give our
minority alumni a timely and
compelling reason to return to
campus and to participate fully
as members of the W&L Alumni
Association. We are most grate-
ful for the time given and the in-
terest shown by those who have
participated.’”’

—by Joei L. Dyes, ’91

W&L 27

 

 

 

—_—_

John Falk, ’86, ’90L, studies the hows and whys of military procurement

What exactly does the Pen-
tagon do every year with a
multibillion-dollar budget? How
does the military spend its
money, and who benefits from
its decisions? And why have
Americans heard stories about
$700 toilet seats and extraor-
dinary cost Overruns On weap-
onry systems?

John M. Falk, ’86, ’90L, has
literally spent years pondering
those questions. As a senior at
W&L, Falk organized a major
symposium on government pro-
curement that brought together
members of Congress, military
personnel, and defense contrac-
tors. His role in the symposium
later earned him a Congressional
Award for volunteer service.

More recently, as a student in
W&L’s School of Law, he was
involved in an intensive indepen-
dent study project which exam-
ined contract disputes and pro-
tests between defense contractors
and the federal government. He
served as a research assistant for
the project, which was conduct-
ed on behalf of the Adminis-
trative Conference of the United
States. The primary researcher
was Robert N. Davis, a visiting
associate professor of law at
Washington and Lee.

During the past year, Falk and
Davis made numerous trips to
Washington to interview mem-
bers of the Department of
Defense, contractors, and other
experts. They hope that even-
tually their report to the Ad-
ministrative Conference will
result in reform proposals which
may in turn develop into legisla-

tion or executive orders.

A student and a professor,
working one-on-one to produce
work that might have far-
reaching implications—Falk rea-
lizes such opportunities don’t ex-
ist everywhere.

**T couldn’t survive just going
to class,’’ he says. ‘‘What really
excites me is the thought of mak-
ing an impact. Opportunities like
that exist all around us at W&L.
It’s just a question of taking ad-
vantage of them.

**I couldn’t have gotten the
support I needed to do these
things at most other schools. The
reason W&L is so special is its
size, and the faculty are so en-
couraging. That’s combined with
the resources of a real universi-
ty. Few other schools in the
country can offer that.’’

Falk’s independent work is
part of a growing emphasis in the
School of Law on intensive
research. For instance, in
1988-89 a small group of stu-

 

dents who were enrolled in a
special seminar drafted a statute
dealing with libel law. A similar
course during the past year con-
centrated on hostile takeovers
and was taught by faculty in
both the law and commerce
schools.

Falk believes the new ap-
proach is effective. ‘‘If you get
into an area to a very significant
depth, requiring a lot of research
and writing, the skills and talents
you develop will be transferable
to anything else you do,’’ he
believes. ‘‘Anyone at W&L can
do this on an independent basis.
It’s just a matter of being
creative.”’

Last year, Falk and a class-
mate, Douglas W. Herndon,
completed an independent proj-
ect on the role of defense con-
sultants. Their report, titled
‘*The Complex Role of Military
Industrial Consultants,’’ was
prepared for the Senate Govern-
mental Affairs Committee sub-

committee on federal services.

Falk first became interested in
military procurement because,
he says, ‘‘my father’s law firm
in Washington, D.C., represents
a variety of government contrac-
tors. Then when I came to W&L
as an undergraduate, I did some
research on the subject with Pro-
fessor [Clark] Mollenhoff
[Washington and Lee’s Pulitzer
prize-winning professor of jour-
nalism].’’ But Falk admits there
might be another reason as well.

**I’m idealistic. It’s irrelevant
what structure or process you
devise for any bureaucracy,
whether it is the federal govern-
ment or the student government
at Washington and Lee. Any
process can work if you’ve got
the right people, if you’ve got de-
cent, incorruptible people who
want to serve the public interest
and not their own interest.’’

Another term for that notion
is a familiar one at W&L—
honor. ‘‘That’s why I have so
loved W&L,’’ Falk continues.
**Here you come as close as you
can in today’s society to a perfect
environment. We’ve got our
problems, sure. But the key com-
ponent is people’s desire to live
in that environment and keep it
as close as possible to the ideal,
to make sure the rules are clear
and to enforce them.

**You just have to act proper-
ly, and that’s true whether
you’re talking about W&L or
government procurement or
HUD or the space program.
People have to have integrity.”

Washington and Lee receives proceeds from Richard Sloan, ’42, unitrust

Washington and Lee has
received the proceeds from a
charitable remainder unitrust
created about 10 years ago by
Richard T. Sloan, ’42, of Har-
risonburg, Va.

Sloan, who died in March
1990, established the unitrust to
provide income for his lifetime
with the principal, upon his
death, to come to Washington

28 W&L

and Lee. The size of that prin-
cipal is approximately $500,000.

The University’s Board of
Trustees will use the assets of the
unitrust to establish the Richard
T. Sloan Scholarship Endow-
ment, making it possible to
award a number of stipends to
Sloan Scholars each year. The
Sloan Endowment will be among
the larger of such funds available

for awarding scholarships to
deserving students.

Sloan was the former presi-
dent of Shengas in Harrison-
burg. He actively participated in
W&L alumni affairs.

In announcing the gift, W&L
President John D. Wilson said,
**Dick Sloan’s interest and
generosity in supporting the
University are examples of the

farsightedness upon which we
depend. His selection of the
unitrust method proved to be
beneficial financially to both him
and the University.

‘‘We are most grateful for the
legacy which will now be a per-
manent and named part of
Washington and Lee.”’

(Sloan’s obituary appears on
page 54.)

 

a oe ee ee ee ee ee

i eee ay 1

sg: ie i ila rl Ml a ii eet a, ee a a

i i i i i i iN

 

 

_—

 

Several former Washington
and Lee sports figures will be in-
ducted into the W&L Athletic
Hall of Fame in September.

Amos A. Bolen, ’34, °37L,
J. B. (Jay) Handlan, *52, John
s. Hudson, ’78, and the late
E. P. (Cy) Twombly and H.
Leigh Williams Jr., 32, will be
officially inducted during a ban-
quet on campus Sept. 7. They
will also be recognized the
following day at halftime during
the Generals’ football game with
Emory and Henry.

Bolen was captain of the 1933
W&L football squad, which he
led to the state championship
and a 4-4-2 record. He was
selected to the All-Southern
Conference first team and was
an honorable mention All-
American. He played all but
three minutes of his senior
season.

Valedictorian of the class of
1934, Bolen was a member of
Phi Beta Kappa and was presi-
dent of the Athletic Council.
During law school he was named
to the Order of the Coif and
Omicron Delta Kappa. In 1958
Sports Illustrated chose him for
its Silver Anniversary All-
America football team, a na-
tional squad of individuals who
had distinguished themselves in
careers and community service.

Handlan finished his W&L
basketball career with 2,002
points, which placed him second
only to Hall of Famer Dom
Flora on W&L’s all-time scoring
list. He made 18 of 18 free-throw
attempts in a game with Virginia
in 1950; and during his senior
season he attempted 71 shots and
scored 66 points in a win over
Furman. His 71-shot perfor-
mance remains the longest-
Standing individual mark cur-
rently in the NCAA record
book. Only NBA stars Pete
Maravich and Calvin Murphy
have scored more points in a
Same against a major college
Opponent.

Handlan earned letters in
football, track, and basketball.
He kicked six extra points in

 

CC Ee

Twombly

4154
Williams

Hudson

W&L’s football upset of
unbeaten Virginia in 1951.

In 1976, Hudson became
W&L’s first NCAA national
champion. He won both the 500-
and 1,650-yard freestyle events at
the NCAA college division

  
   
  
  
 

Handlan

swimming championships and
was named an All-American 17
times, an achievement that is still
a W&L record. Hudson led the
swim team to a combined 33-9
record and four top-10 finishes.

A Virginia state champion

I ss sn nthleten: coaches slated for September induction into Hall of Fame

swimmer eight times in his W&L
career, Hudson was designated
the University’s freshman athlete
of the year in 1976 and its out-
standing senior athlete in 1978.

Twombly coached W&L
teams to more than 400 victories
and guided the University’s
athletic progress for more than
half a century. He came to Lex-
ington in 1921 after graduating
from Springfield College and
took control of the swimming
and golf programs. In his 39
seasons as swim coach,
Twombly’s teams posted a
122-49 record, four Southern
Conference championships, and
five unbeaten seasons.

His golf teams compiled a
record of 196-121-26 from 1926
through 1974. Twombly coached
several players who later played
on U.S. Walker Cup teams, the
highest honor awarded an
amateur player.

In addition to his coaching
duties, Twombly served as
athletic director for 15 years and
directed W&L through its deci-
sion to end subsidized athletics
in 1954. He died in 1974.

Williams lettered for four
years in football, basketball,
baseball, and track. He led the
basketball team to a four-season
record of 54-12. Though he had
never competed as a runner
before his arrival in Lexington,
he was the Southern Conference
champion in the 440-yard run
during his junior year and was
unbeaten in the event during his
senior year.

Williams was also a football
standout and once caught five
passes in a single game—three
from the W&L quarterback and
two from the North Carolina
State quarterback. He was the
Generals’ starter at first base in
baseball, unless he was needed
on the mound to pitch. He shut
out Virginia Tech in one of his
spot appearances as a pitcher for
the Generals.

In 1940 Williams died of
Hodgkin’s Disease, a day short
of his 32nd birthday.

W&L 29

 

 

 

New appointments announced

Rob Mish

Washington and Lee has an-
nounced a number of new ap-
pointments in its administration.

ROBERT W.H. MISH III,
°76, has been named assistant
alumni director. He succeeds
James D. Farrar Jr., ’74, who
has assumed the position of
alumni director.

Mish will have primary
responsibility for planning and
coordinating such on-campus ac-
tivities as homecoming and class
reunions and will assist with pro-
gramming services for the
University’s 83 alumni chapters.

He had been director of col-
lege counseling at St. Anne’s-
Belfield School in Charlottes-
ville, Va. He has also taught at
the school and served as director
of its fine arts and theatre
programs.

JOEL P. SMITH JR., ’90, is
the new alumni staff assistant.
He succeeds Elizabeth J.
Parkins, ’89, who has held the
position for the past year. He
will work closely with Kathekon,
the student alumni association,
and will serve as class notes edi-
tor of W&L, The Alumni Maga-
zine of Washington and Lee.

In June Smith .received his
bachelor’s degree in journalism.
He was a member of Phi Delta

30. W&L

 

ss? * *
2

ao

Christie Davis and Mimi Milner Elrod

Theta fraternity and was a staff
reporter for the Ring-tum Phi,
the student newspaper.

CHRISTINE L. DAVIS, ’89,
has been named coordinator of
campaign events in the Develop-
ment Office. She will be respon-
sible for the execution of all
public events, both on and off
the campus, associated with
Washington and Lee’s upcoming
capital campaign.

For the past year, Davis has
worked at W&L as coordinator
of alumni chapter programs.

SHAWN A. COPELAND
and NANCY L. HICKAM, both
graduating seniors, have accept-
ed positions as admissions coun-
selors at W&L. Copeland ma-
jored in politics and was captain
of the swimming and water polo
teams. Hickam, an art major,
was a University Scholar and a

Shawn Copeland, Nancy Hickam, and Joel Smith

 

in Alumni and Admissions Offices, Special Programs

 

member of the Student Recruit-
ment Committee. Both also
served as dormitory counselors.

MIMI MILNER ELROD has
been named assistant director of
special programs. For the past
four years she has been assistant
director of admissions at W&L.
In her new position she will help
coordinate W&L’s summer pro-
grams and institutes, including
the Alumni College.

 

 

 

Shenandoah awards
Boatwright prize

Shenandoah, The Washington
and Lee University Review, has
awarded the first annual James
Boatwright III Prize for Poetry
to David McKain for his poem,
‘Bus Stop in Soviet Georgia.”’

The Boatwright Prize is a $500
cash award given annually to the
author of what is judged to be
the best poem published in
Shenandoah during a volume
year.

McKain’s most recent book of
poems, Spirit Bodies, won the
1990 Ithaca House Book
Awards. He is also the author of
Spellbound: Growing Up in
God’s Country, which received
the 1989 Associated Writing Pro-
grams award for creative
nonfiction.

The Boatwright Prize for
Poetry is made possible by gifts
from friends of James Boat-
wright, who served as editor of
Shenandoah and as a professor
of English at W&L until his
death in 1988.

Craun receives
VFIC fellowship

Edwin D. Craun, professor of
English at Washington and Lee,
has received a fellowship for re-
search and advanced study from
the Virginia Foundation for In-
dependent Colleges through the
Maurice L. Mednick Memorial
Fund.

Craun is one of 14 professors
at private colleges in Virginia to
receive a Mednick fellowship this
year. Established in 1967 by the
family of the late Mr. Mednick
of Glove Iron Construction Co.
in Norfolk, the fellowships are
awarded annually to members of
the VFIC college faculties.

The Mednick fellowship will
€nable Craun to conduct
research this summer at the
British Library in London. The
research will contribute to a
book-length study of medieval
Clerical discourse on lying and
Other forms of deviant speech.

Craun joined the W&L facul-
ty in 197],

Iz

 

~

 

2 ie

Professor Gwyn Campbell bats for the faculty/staff team.

Faculty and students meet on the mound

The score is 8-7 with two outs
as the batter steps up to the
plate. The pitch lofts toward her,
she swings the bat, and with a
crack the ball soars into the
distance. She sprints to first, and
her teammates-turned-coaches
motion her on. Finally she slides
into third, just beneath the
outstretched arm of the baseman
who tries desperately to tag her.

‘*Out!’’ cries the third
baseman. ‘‘She was safe!’’ the
batter’s teammates retort. A

heated argument ensues, but
finally, in resignation, the third-
baseman tosses the ball back to
the mound and the game
resumes.

The batter is none other than
Gwyn E. Campbell, assistant
professor of romance languages
at Washington and Lee; the third
baseman is a freshman at W&L.
Their respective teams (‘‘Bubba
Force,’’ a squad drawn from the
fourth floor of Graham-Lees
Dormitory, and the less creative-

ly named ‘‘Faculty/Staff I
team’’) are vying for the pennant
in the annual residence-hall in-
tramural league.

Spring means softball, and for
the past couple of years at
Washington and Lee, it has also
meant an unusual opportunity
for faculty-staff interaction.
Twice a week during the spring
term, players meet on the athletic
practice fields to throw, catch,
and enjoy some time together
outside of the classroom.

Kenneth P. Ruscio, ’76, assis-
tant dean of students for fresh-
men and residence life, organ-
ized the softball league just last
year. He originally intended it to
be primarily for students, ‘‘but
in order to get the freshmen to
participate,’’ he says, ‘‘I had to
bribe them and say I would get
a faculty/staff team together.”’

The first year, 25 members of
W&L’s staff and faculty turned
out for the team. That number
grew to 44 the second season.

**We have a really good mix,”’
Ruscio says. ‘*There are pro-
fessors, members of the athletic
department, buildings and
grounds people, and admin-
istrators. We have a good time.”’

The student participants seem
to enjoy it as well. ‘‘You don’t
see a lot of these people except
maybe in the classroom,”’ says
Richard Burke, a freshman from
Atlanta and a member of ‘‘Bub-
ba Force.’’ ‘‘It’s good to see
them in a different environ-
ment.”’

Though a significant age dif-
ference exists between the stu-
dent and faculty/staff teams, the
games tend to be remarkably
close. There are plenty of strike-
outs, errors, and wild pitches.
**Everyone approaches it as a
fun thing,’’ Ruscio says. ‘‘We
know it’s far from serious.

**This is just the kind of activi-
ty we need to be promoting at
W&L. We need to provide more
opportunities for informal
student-faculty interaction.

**And this,’’ he says with a
laugh, ‘‘is certainly informal.’’

|
31

 

 

Kirgis

Three faculty members at the
School of Law have been award-
ed alumni professorships for the
next five years.

The recipients are Roger D.
Groot, Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,
and L. H. (Lash) LaRue, ’59.

The professorships were
established by W&L’s law school
alumni. Members of the law
classes of 1958 and 1975, as well
as the Law Council, provided

 

32 W&L

 

Groot

special support in creating the
new professorships.

**We are grateful to the Law
Council and our law alumni for
their support for this important
first step in recognizing the quali-
ty of the Washington and Lee
law faculty,’’ Randall P. Bezan-
son, dean of the School of Law,
said in announcing the pro-
fessorships.

Groot joined the W&L facul-

 

Former United States attorney general Griffin Bell is interviewed by
television reporters after speaking at Washington and Lee’s School of
Law this spring.

Law school alumni professorships awarded to Kirgis, Groot, and LaRue

ty in 1973. He is a graduate of
Vanderbilt University and re-
ceived his law degree from the
University of North Carolina.
His specialties are criminal law
and legal history.

Kirgis served as dean of the
School of Law from 1983 to
1988. A graduate of Yale Uni-

 

tional law.

LaRue joined Washington
and Lee’s faculty in 1967 after
receiving his law degree from
Harvard and serving with the
U.S. Department of Justice. His
areas of teaching and scholarship
include constitutional law,
jurisprudence, and legislation.

versity and the University of
California at Berkeley, he spe-
cializes in the area of interna-

‘W&L Today’ program launched

The Washington Society, a new organization of Washington and
Lee alumni, visited the campus in April to inaugurate the Universi-
ty’s ‘‘W&L Today’’ program.

*“‘W&L Today”’ is designed to give interested alumni, parents,
and friends an opportunity to learn more about the University’s
strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities for advancement.

During the weekend, 17 members of the Washington Society and
their spouses attended panel discussions with faculty and students,
heard presentations from members of the W&L administration, and
visited the construction site of the Lenfest Center for the Perform-
ing Arts.

Also included on the program were various receptions, dinners,
and a concert by the University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra.

A week earlier, a similar program was held in Lewis Hall. Thir-
teen alumni and their spouses attended ‘‘Law School Today,”’ which
featured panel discussions dealing with recent curricular changes in
the School of Law.

‘‘I learned an enormous amount and am extremely impressed
by the University, the staff, and the students,’’ one of the participants
said at the conclusion of the ‘‘W&L Today’’ weekend.

The University plans to hold similar ‘‘W&L Today”’ and *‘Law
School Today’’ programs periodically during the next several years.

The Washington Society was established last year to assist the
University in the areas of fund raising and communications. It is
composed entirely of former members of W&L’s Alumni Associa-

tion Board of Directors.

 

 

 ———

>

a . . 4 e
At a dinner in his honor in March, Wilfred J. Ritz, professor of law
emeritus (right), is presented with a copy of his book by one of its
editors, Wythe Holt (center), as Mrs. Ritz looks on.

—

>

x
ros
a 7

:

Rewriting the History of the Judiciary Act of 1789

By Wilfred J. Ritz, ’39, Professor of Law, Emeritus
edited by L. H. (Lash) LaRue, ’59, Professor of
Law, and Wythe Holt

(Oklahoma Press)

This work is a fundamental reconsideration of one
of the most important statutes passed by Congress—
the statute by which the First Congress established
the national judicial system.

According to H. Jefferson Powell, professor of
law at Duke University, the book is ‘‘a major con-
tribution to our understanding of the federal court
system and of the early Republic.’’

Ritz worked on the book for many years but suf-
fered a stroke just before its completion. L. H.
(Lash) LaRue, ’59, professor of law at W&L, and
Wythe Holt, university research professor of law at
the University of Alabama, finished the book and
Saw to its publication.

Ritz was an active member of the Washington and
Lee faculty from 1953 to 1985.

The Rating Guide to Life in America’s Small Cities

By G. Scott Thomas, ’77
(Prometheus Books)

This book ranks 219 of the country’s
“‘micropolitan’’ areas, cities with populations be-
tween 15,000 and 50,000.

The ratings were based on factors such as educa-
“on, economics, transportation, and housing.
The nation’s best small city, Thomas says, is San

Luis Obispo, Calif. Its worst is Nampa-Caldwell,
Idaho.

 

CE

<i

 

Passion Play

By W. Edward Blain, ’74
(Putnam Books)

In what Publishers Weekly
calls an ‘‘outstanding first
novel,’’ a murder in New York
City seems to be related to a
boys’ prep school in Virginia,
where several students also die
mysteriously.

Any number of characters
seem suspect, including two
members of the English depart-
ment. ‘‘Pacing is quick,’’ says
Booklist, ‘‘and boarding-school
life is drawn in convincing and
often humorous detail.’’

Blain is chairman of the
English department at Wood-
berry Forest School in Virginia.

_ou..1 nevBooxsnell

Southampton County and
Franklin: A Pictorial History

By Daniel T. Balfour, ’63, ’65L
(The Donning Co.)

More than 300 photographs
and accompanying text docu-
ment the history of this region of
Virginia, from the days of early
Indian settlements to the 1980s.

**This volume tries to show the
triumphs and the tribulations of
the last 240 years,’’ the author
says in his preface.

A native of Franklin, Balfour
now lives in Richmond, where he
practices law with the firm of
Beale, Wright, Balfour, and
Davidson.

 

W. Edward Blain, ’74, signs a copy of Passion Play during reunion weekend.

W&L

 

33

 

 

34

Alumni News

 

Musical groups
tour the South

Two of Washington and Lee’s
student singing ensembles—
Southern Comfort and Jubi-
Lee—visited alumni chapters
throughout the South in
February.

The groups presented concerts
for the Arkansas, Northwest
Louisiana, New Orleans, Mo-
bile, Tallahassee, and Atlanta
chapters during the tour, which
coincided with the students’
Washington’s birthday vacation.

Nearly two months later, the
W&L student Brass Ensemble
gave a special performance for
the San Diego chapter in La
Jolla.

More travels .

Numerous other University
representatives visited alumni

W&L

 

 

a

     

Ha MG aa ts E
(Above) Warren Stephens, ’79, of Little Rock is serenaded by JubiLee; (below) attending the Southern Com-
fort and JubiLee concert in New Orleans are Nancy Ellis, Charles Stern, ’85, Cove Geary, ’80, Lisa Geary,
Roger Sullivan, ’92, and chapter president Parke Ellis, ’81.

 

 

 

.
~The oe

(Above) Mrs. Robert Shaw is entertained by Southern Comfort in
Atlanta. One of the group’s members is her son, Alex Hitz, ’90.
(Below) Some of the crowd sits on the steps at Marlsgate in Little Rock
_f0 watch Southern Comfort and JubiLee perform.

 

Alumni News

 

 

chapters during the winter and
spring months.

Frank A. Parsons, ’54, coor-
dinator of capital planning at
W&L, received the Lynchburg
chapter’s annual citation during
an April banquet at the
Boonsboro Country Club.

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of
the School of Law, traveled to
Los Angeles, Dallas, and
Winston-Salem, while N. Rick
Heatley, director of career ser-
vices at W&L, met with members
of the Philadelphia, Palm Beach,
Gulf Stream, and Fort Lauder-
dale chapters.

President John D. Wilson, his
wife, Anne, and associate alumni
director James D. Farrar Jr.,
’74, were the special guests at a
luncheon in Sarasota. Farrar
also attended a reception and
dinner sponsored by the Hilton

 

Head chapter.

James W. Whitehead, director
of W&L’s Reeves Center, spoke
to alumni in Richmond, where
the Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain was on exhibit
at the Science Museum of
Virginia. Meanwhile, J. Davis
Futch, professor of history, was
the featured speaker at lun-
cheons in Tidewater, New York,
and Richmond.

Visiting the Atlanta chapter
was J. Ramsey Martin, professor
of philosophy. Lewis G. John,
58, dean of students, met with
alumni in Delaware, while the
New York chapter heard from
L.C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68,
associate dean of students for
Greek affairs.

1. Taylor Sanders II, professor
of history, spoke to the Eastern
Kentucky chapter.

 

aii

W&L 35

 

 

 

Among the stars

Alumni in two chapters heard
from a couple of the University’s
more famous graduates in
February.

The Houston chapter held a
reception honoring G. David
Low, ’78, an astronaut who had
just returned from a space shut-
tle mission.

The special guest at an Orange
County dinner was Paul Maslan-
sky, ’54, producer of the Police
Academy films.

Other chapter events

In April the Roanoke,

Philadelphia, and Washington,
D.C., chapters held special par-

ties for students who had been
accepted for admission at W&L.

The Mid-South chapter played
host to the Generals’ basketball
team prior to their game with
Rhodes College. As warmer
weather approached, members
of the Greensboro, Philadelphia,
and Baltimore chapters cheered
on the Generals during lacrosse
contests in their respective
regions of the country. Bal-
timore alumni also made ar-
rangements to attend an Orioles’
baseball game en masse.

The Dallas/Fort Worth
chapter held its second annual
golf tournament in May.

Gathering for cocktails in their
respective cities were members of

Alumni News

 

the Cleveland, Tri-State, Kansas
City, and Los Angeles chapters.

The Palmetto, Florida West
Coast, Dallas, Chicago, Rich-
mond, and Puget Sound
chapters participated in special
gatherings with graduates of
other Virginia colleges.

Alumni in New York got
together to see Neil Simon’s The
Odd Couple at the Amateur
Comedy Club. The Houston
chapter held a dinner buffet in
April, and the Washington,
D.C., chapter sponsored a pig
roast at the Fairfax Hunt Club
in May.

| ee Fe v
bX

 

 

New chapter
presidents

 

The following are new
chapter presidents:

Arkansas—Dr. D. Dean
Kumpuris, ’70

Charleston, S.C.—Robert
L. Clement III, ’79;

Lynchburg—Thomas R.
Glass, °49;

Richmond—Robert L.
Brooke, ’81.

 

 

 

 

(Above right) Mobile chapter president Clifton Morrisette, ’83, Pensacola chapter president Miner Harrell, ’71, and Russell Ladd, ’57, enjoy
JubiLee’s attention. (Below) Southern Comfort and JubiLee lead the Shreveport alumni in the ‘“‘W&L Swing.’’

 

 

36 —- W&L

_

gRICK/from page 20
concern. He would prefer the words “Good Father’’ on
his epitaph, rather than ‘‘Drug Rehabilitation Expert.

‘<] think it is more important to be a good parent
than to be good at your profession,”’ he says. “Being a
good parent really impresses me, and it is very difficult
to do. I guess I am so impressed by that because I see so
many dysfunctional families.

“J spend a lot of time with my kids. That was one of
the problems with medical school. They kind of get you
thinking that if you don’t work 70 hours a week you are
a wimp. It took me a while to get over that guilt, but
now I have no guilt over taking the afternoon off and
working 40 hours a week.”’

Frick’s perception of the required workload isn’t the
only thing that has changed. His role as a chemical de-
pendency consultant also has altered his ideas about the
way medicine—at least the medicine of dependency—is
practiced.

‘I guess I have learned so many new skills as a physi-
cian in this line of work that I was never taught in medi-
cal school,’’ he says. ‘‘That has been a heck of a lot of
fun. I have learned from nonphysicians, too. I have
learned a lot from priests, from therapists. It is almost
like getting another degree. It has been a wonderful
growth experience.”’

That ‘‘second degree’’ has much to do with Frick’s
interest in understanding the human condition. Physio-
logical examination and biochemical analysis aren’t so
much at work as is ‘‘human-being analysis.’’

‘It has changed my view of medicine a great deal,’’
he explains. ‘‘I used to regard my patients as biologic en-
tities in which I was going to put drugs to bring up their
blood pressure, or I was going to catheterize their heart
like I would a lab dog in medical school.

‘*But in this line of work—it sounds trite—but I really
do have to view the entire individual. I have become less
skilled with manual things as a physician, but I have be-
come much more skilled as a humanist. Now, instead of
sitting down and insisting on reading last week’s New
England Journal of Medicine, I might insist on sitting
down—and this is not an exaggeration—and trying to
read Shakespeare. I think that can be more important for
me in taking care of some people.”’

And unlike surgery, where the results are often quick-
ly known, the medicine of dependency is a drawn-out
process. Despite the label, drug rehabilitation is not a
30-day, in-and-out, all-shiny-and-new procedure. It is
because he is able to step back and, more often than not,
see a person become whole again that Frick continues to
wade through the often frustrating world of addiction.
He believes addicts can get better, and, perhaps as a
result, they do.

‘The rewarding aspect is to see the evolution of
recovery in individuals over a couple of years,’’ he says.
‘‘Most people think if you go into treatment you come
Out buffed, polished, and recovered. That is not the case.
Recovery literally takes years. So where I get a tremen-
dous amount of satisfaction is watching an individual
Over a couple of years and seeing a metamorphosis in

 

evolution. You can’t see it on a day-to-day basis. You
can only see the big picture. When you look back at it,
you see a wonderful transformation from a miserable
person to a happy person. That’s what’s a lot of fun.
What’s even more fun is that they give me the credit for
it, and they did all the work.

‘*But give enough people enough time to recover and
the proper direction, and they will recover.’’

The Generals’ Report

by Mike Stachura, ’86

The 1990 spring sports season at
Washington and Lee was the stuff
movies are made of. All the right ingre-
dients were there—personal courage in
the face of adversity, persistence despite
unfavorable odds, and plenty of team
spirit, cooperation, and loyalty.

Take, for instance, the golf team,
which had finished fourth in the con-
ference last year but had since lost an
all-conference player and another starter
to graduation. The squad still managed
to put together three tournament vic-
tories and a 38-6 record, win the con-
ference championship by a single stroke,
earn a bid to the national championship,
and record one of the best national fin-
ishes ever for a W&L team. And all the
while, the team’s head coach was fight-
ing—and winning—a battle with cancer.

Then there was the men’s lacrosse
team, which won nine games this
year—three more than it had in the
previous two seasons combined. The
Generals finished the season ranked
11th in the nation and returned lacrosse
excitement to Lexington—even though
the first-year head coach did not see his
team play until mid-January.

And in men’s tennis, a doubles team
paired together only at the start of the
season became conference champions
and earned a trip to the national cham-
pionships, where they defeated the No.
1 seeds in a third-set tiebreaker and cap-
tured the national doubles title. Mean-
while, one of the partners reached the
national singles semifinals and the other
did his part by superstitiously consum-
ing bag after bag of M&Ms.

From the unexpected national cham-
pionship in men’s tennis and unqualified
successes on the golf course to the sur-
prising proficiency of the women’s
lacrosse team, it was an extraordinary
spring in Lexington.

Men’s Lacrosse

First-year head coach Jim Stagnitta
met with the men’s lacrosse team for the
first time in early December. He later
told reporters that after his initial prac-

38 = =—- W&L

~~ // /

anil Ls

 

 

 

Cy

#

 

 

Midfielder Todd Garliss runs by a Middlebury defender in W&L’s 13-11 comeback victory over

the Panthers.

tices in early January, he began wonder-
ing what he had gotten himself into. But
by mid-season, W&L’s opponents were
doing the wondering and worrying.

Under Stagnitta’s leadership, W&L,
which had dropped completely off the
charts since its semifinal finish in 1987,
began the climb back into the national
picture with a quick start in 1990. After
being outmanned in their opener by
Virginia, a Division I top-10 team, the
Generals won three straight, including
a stunning 10-8 victory at much-
heralded Franklin and Marshall early
in March.

W&L stumbled with back-to-back
losses to ODAC foes Roanoke and
Lynchburg, the latter coming in a 7-6
overtime decision, but the Generals soon
regrouped and mounted a run for a na-
tional tournament bid.

In the rain, snow, and mud of
Wilson Field, W&L senior crease attack-
man Chris Mastrogiovanni scored five
goals, the final one coming with 44
seconds left in the second overtime, and

the Generals knocked off eighth-ranked
Gettysburg 8-7. The race was on.

The Generals won six of their final
seven games and finished the year
ranked 11th in the nation, just a stone’s
throw out of the eight-team national
tournament. The stretch run included
more notable performances by
Mastrogiovanni, who scored five goals
in a win over Middlebury and a career-
high six in a thrashing of Virginia
Wesleyan. And a miraculous overtime
win over Guilford ended a game that
featured eight ties and six lead changes.
Sophomore Jeff Roberts tied the game
with 58 seconds left, and sophomore
Wiemi Douoguih won it 22 seconds into
the extra period.

In its final three games, W&L fell to
eventual Division III national finalist
Washington College and then handled
Hampden-Sydney and VMI, winning
the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic for the
second year in a row. Four W&L
players—Mastrogiovanni, defensive
midfielder Carlos Millan, and defense-

-_—

men Mike Nunan and Reid Campbell—
were named to the All-ODAC team.
Campbell became the first four-time
All-ODAC defender in league history.

Golf

Just as the members of the W&L
golf team were getting ready to begin
preseason practice, they learned that
veteran head coach E. G. “‘Buck’’ Leslie
would not be able to lead them on a dai-
ly basis. Chronic leukemia had put him
in the hospital and sapped his strength.
While Leslie fought his illness, assistant
basketball coach Mike Piatt handled the
day-to-day operation of the team. Leslie
kept in constant contact, and together
the coaching tandem produced one of
the most successful seasons in W&L golf
history.

The Generals won all three of their
dual matches during the season and
added wins in three consecutive tour-
naments to place themselves among the
favorites heading into the conference
tournament. The fine regular-season
performance also had put W&L in posi-
tion for its second bid to the NCAA
Division III national championships in
the last three years. The Generals rea-
lized, too, that a first-place finish at the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships would be sure to impress
the national selection committee.

W&L trailed by a stroke after the
first 18 holes of the ODAC champion-
ships, which had been changed to a one-
day, 27-hole event after rain washed out
the first day of play. But in the final nine
holes, three Generals fired 36s. One of
those was Clay Thomas, a sophomore
who had been named ODAC Golfer of
the Year only hours before he finished
his final round. Thomas struggled in the
Opening 18 and carded an 82, including
a 42 on the back nine—the same nine
holes he would have to play again that
afternoon.

But Thomas, the last golfer on the
Course, walked off No. 18, signed his
scorecard, and began celebrating. His 36
gave W&L a one-stroke advantage over
second-place host Bridgewater and
Clinched the Generals’ fifth ODAC
championship. Thomas was joined on
the All-ODAC team by classmate Jay
McKnight, medalist at the champion-

ships; and Piatt, in his first year as a golf
coach, was named ODAC Coach of the
Year. He shared the honor with Leslie.
A week after the ODAC victory,
WA&L received the much-awaited bid to
the national championships. There,
under the watchful eyes of both Piatt
and Leslie, the Generals turned in a con-
sistent four rounds of golf to place
seventh, equaling W&L’s best perfor-
mance ever. Sophomores Thomas and
Brad Thoburn finished 18th to earn
third team All-America standing, mark-
ing the first time W&L has had two golf
All-Americans in the same year.

Men’s Tennis

W&L captured its second con-
secutive NCAA Division III national
doubles championship—thanks to some
M&Ms.

While the famous candy-coated
chocolates did play a role in winning the
championship (more on that later), it
was W&L’s own M&Ms—John Morris
and Bill Meadows—who deserved most
of the credit for winning the title.

Despite a rash of rain-outs that
plagued the season, W&L mowed
through the ODAC championships once
again. The Generals won their sixth con-

 

 

secutive conference title by capturing six
of the nine singles and doubles flights,
and Morris was named ODAC Player of
the Year for the second year in a row.
But W&L’s hopes for a fifth straight trip
to the national tournament were dashed
when the selection committee ranked the
Generals 13th, one spot out of the
12-team tournament field.

Morris and Meadows were left to
carry the flag for W&L, which had
brought home both the singles and
doubles titles last year. Morris, the
defending national singles champion
and the No. 1-ranked player in Division
III, appeared to be W&L’s brightest
hope for a national title, and indeed, he
easily made it to the semifinals. But
Washington College’s Scott Flippin-
Read handed Morris a 6-2, 6-1 defeat,
and he was knocked out of the singles
competition.

In doubles, W&L seemed a long shot
at best. Morris and Meadows began the
year unranked, but they steadily moved
through the season, posting a 16-6
record during the regular season and
winning the ODAC No. | Flight doubles
title. At nationals, the pair were seeded
eighth and were expected to get no far-
ther than the quarterfinals and surely no
farther than the semifinals, where they
would probably face the No. 1l-ranked

 

 

Bill Meadows (above left) rips a forehand in W&L’s victory over Millersville. ODAC Golfer-of-
the- Year Clay Thomas (above right) lines up a putt in an early-season win at the Lexington Golf
and Country Club.

W&L 39

 

 

During the first race ever run on the new synthetic track at Wilson Field, Shawn King (left) helps

W&L win the 1600-meter relay.

team in the nation, Washington Col-
lege’s Flippin-Read and Larry Gewer.

Morris and Meadows quietly crept
through the draw. They reached the
semifinals without having to play a seed-
ed team, but the semifinals would be a
difficult test as the Gewer and Flippin-
Read tandem, who had been eliminated
from doubles play each of the previous
two years by a Morris-led W&L doubles
team, had revenge in mind.

Morris had revenge in mind, too, but
he also had M&Ms. Partner Bill
Meadows had downed a pack of the
candies before every match in the tour-
nament, and the good-luck ‘‘training
meal’’ worked as Morris and Meadows
dispatched the favorites 3-6, 7-5, 7-6 to
reach the final, where they quickly
dispatched the No. 3 seeds to win the na-
tional title.

(A related story about John Morris
begins on page 42.)

Women’s Lacrosse

A relative newcomer to the ODAC,
the W&L women’s lacrosse team served
notice that it has found a home near the
top of the league. The Generals reached
the ODAC tournament semifinals for
the second year in a row and posted their
best record yet. They ended the season
at 10-7, including a stretch of six straight
victories—despite an 0-4 start.

The Generals also got their first-ever
victory over traditional ODAC power

40 W&L

Lynchburg, and W&L finished the year
second in the league to Roanoke, the
No. 4-ranked team in the nation.

Paced by the scoring of Kimberly
Bishop and Shawn Wert and the defen-
sive play of Melissa Manko and Erica
Ingersoll, the Generals went on a five-
game winning streak to close out the
regular season.

Although the team fell to Lynchburg
in the ODAC semifinals, it was the most
successful season yet for women’s la-
crosse. Manko and Wert were selected
to the All-ODAC first team, while In-
gersoll was a second-team all-conference
pick.

Track and Field

The W&L men’s team finished sec-
ond to Lynchburg in the ODAC out-
door track and field championships, just
as it had a few months earlier in the in-
door championships. But it was again
a W&L athlete who took top honors.
Wes Boyd, who won the 100- and
200-meter races and helped W&L to a
victory in the 400-meter relay, was
named ODAC Athlete of the Year.

Boyd and the rest of his relay
team—Tie Sosnowski, Scott Williams,
and Carl Gilbert—later qualified for the
NCAA Division III national champion-
ships on the last possible date for quali-
fying. But the Generals ran into bad
luck at nationals when Gilbert pulled a
hamstring in W&L’s preliminary heat.

Gilbert had also qualified for the triple
jump, and the injury forced him to
withdraw from both events.

Making up for the men’s share of
misfortune was the W&L women’s
team, which matched its indoor success
by winning the unofficial outdoor
league championship. Although
women’s track is not yet an official]
ODAC sport, there was no denying
W&L’s dominance among conference
schools. In the final meet, Beth Stutz-
mann won five individual events, set
three school records, and earned 60.5
team points as W&L outscored second-
place Eastern Mennonite by 31 points.

Women’s Tennis

Despite missing two of its top players
from last year’s ODAC championship
squad, the women’s tennis team
solidified its position as one of the
league’s perennial powers. For the third
year in arow, W&L finished among the
top two teams in the ODAC champion-
ships, falling to champion Sweet Briar
by just 10.5 points.

Two W&L singles players brought
home individual championships. Muriel
Foster won the ODAC title at No. 4
singles, while freshman Mason Smith
won the title at No. 5 singles. W&L also
won top doubles honors when the team
of Kathy Leake and Kelly Martone were
the champions at Flight No. 1.

Baseball

With a 25-man roster that included
17 sophomores and freshmen, 1990 had
the unmistakable look of a rebuilding
year for W&L baseball. Yet, though the
team finished the season with a record
of 5-15, those numbers might easily have
been reversed.

W&L’s statistics weren’t terribly im-
pressive: a team batting average of .235,
an average of 3.5 runs per game, and a
team ERA of 5.02. Nonetheless, of
W&L’s 15 losses, nearly half were by
two runs or less.

Head Coach Jeff Stickley did see
progress during the course of the season.
W&L took regular-season league cham-
pion Hampden-Sydney to the limit be-
fore losing 3-2 in the quarterfinals of the
ODAC tournament. And while seniors

Bobby Rimmer, John Durant, and
David Smith will be missed, younger
talent will return next year. Freshman
Jon Hesse led the team in hitting with
a .323 average and sophomore pitcher
Steve Momorella, who started nine of
W&L’s 20 games, became the Generals’
first All-ODAC first-team selection

since 1986.

Awards

Numerous Washington and Lee
athletes received special recognition dur-
ing the annual athletic awards ceremony
in May.

Seniors John Morris and Beth Stutz-
mann shared the Preston R. Brown
Memorial Award as W&L’s most
valuable athletes.

Senior John Durant received the
Wink Glasgow Spirit and Sportsman-
ship Award. Durant was a member of
the football and baseball teams.

The Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Awards went to Claire Dudley and
Michael Mitchem.

Senior Jim Lake received the R. E.
(Chub) Yeakel Service Award.

 

 

Junior Kathy Leake, who teamed with Kelly

artone to win the ODAC number one
doubles cro wn, returns a backhand against a
Mary Baldwin opponent.

 

 

SPRING SPORTS SCOREBOARD

Golf (38-6)

ODAC/R-MC Round Robin #1
Lynchburg 318, W&L 330, Bridgewater 332,
Roanoke 345, Va. Wesleyan 353

W&L 303, Shenandoah 376

ODAC/LC Round Robin #2
W&L 321, Lynchburg 322, Bridgewater 322,
Roanoke 326, Hampden-Sydney 336, Randolph-
Macon 345

Ferrum Invitational
W&L 639, Roanoke 652, VMI 655, Lynchburg
658, Bridgewater 671, Hampden-Sydney 688,
Averett 639, Ferrum 700, NC Wesleyan 713,
Bluefield 718, Shenandoah 819

ODAC/W&L Round Robin #3
W&L 307, Roanoke 312, Bridgewater 320,
Hampden-Sydney 322

W&L 314, Shepherd 351

W&L 314, Shenandoah 388

Va. State Championships
Longwood 315, Roanoke 326, C. Newport
327, W&L 331, Apprentice 331, Lynchburg 337,
Hampden-Sydney 339, Hampton 343,
Randolph-Macon 344, Bridgewater 346, Va.
Wesleyan 354, Ferrum 366, Clinch Valley 385

ODAC/Bridgewater Round Robin #4
Bridgewater 307, Roanoke 317, W&L 318,
Hampden-Sydney 323, Lynchburg 324,
Va. Wesleyan 325, Randolph-Macon 332

Ist at ODAC Championships

7th at NCAA Division III Championships

Men’s Tennis (7-7)

W&L 7, Hampden-Sydney 2
James Madison 6, W&L 3
William & Mary 7, W&L 2
W&L 6, Wheaton 3

W&L 7, Lynchburg 2

W&L 5, Millersville 4

Va. Tech 7, W&L 1
Swarthmore 8, W&L 1
W&L 9, Emory & Henry 0
Central Florida 7, W&L 2
W&L 5, Stetson 4

Rollins 7, W&L 2

W&L 5, Fla. Inst. Tech. 4
North Florida 9, W&L 0

Ist at ODAC Championships

Women’s Tennis (10-2)

W&L 9, Hollins 0

W&L 6, Bridgewater 2

W&L 6, Va. Wesleyan 3
W&L 6, Randolph-Macon 0
W&L 7, Lynchburg 2

W&L 5, Roanoke 3

W&L 8, Catholic 1

George Mason 9, W&L 0
W&L 9, R-M Woman’s 0
W&L 8, Mary Baldwin 1
W&L 9, South Carolina St. 0
Sweet Briar 6, W&L 3

2nd at ODAC Championships

Men’s Track & Field (4-1)

Bridgewater 85, W&L 50

W&L 50, Eastern Mennonite 33
W&L 50, Roanoke 6

W&L 65, Newport News App. 56
W&L 65, Eastern Mennonite 51
2nd at ODAC Championships

Women’s Lacrosse (10-7)

Washington College 12, W&L 8
Bridgewater 10, W&L 7
Western Maryland 7, W&L 2
Guilford 8, W&L 5

W&L 8, Longwood 7

W&L 7, Mary Washington 5
W&L 18, Mary Baldwin 5
Roanoke 13, W&L 8

W&L 6, Lynchburg 3

Hartwick 8, W&L 7 (OT)

W&L 18, R-M Woman’s 3
W&L 12, Sweet Briar 4

WA&L 7, Hollins 5 ite
W&L 13, Goucher 5

W&L 10, Randolph-Macon 5
W&L 13, Sweet Briar 3 *
Lynchburg 9, W&L 4 *

* ODAC Tournament

Men’s Lacrosse (9-4)

Virginia 14, W&L 5

W&L 9, Randolph-Macon 3
W&L 10, Franklin & Marshall 8
W&L 13, Ithaca 4

Roanoke 11, W&L 7
Lynchburg 7, W&L 6 (OT)
WAL 8, Gettysburg 7 (2OT)
W&L 13, Middlebury 11

WA&L 13, Guilford 12 (OT)
WA&L 25, Va. Wesleyan 1
Washington College 12, W&L 4
W&L 14, Hampden-Sydney 10
W&L 18, VMI 7

Baseball (5-15)

Holy Cross 4, W&L 3

West Va. Tech ll, W&L 4
W&L 15, West Va. Tech 4
W&L 5, West Va. Tech 4
Bridgewater 3, W&L 1
Eastern Mennonite 7, W&L 5
Hampden-Sydney 2, W&L 0
Lynchburg 9, W&L 2

W&L 5, Randolph-Macon 4
W&L 7, Randolph-Macon 2
Bridgewater 10, W&L 3
Shenandoah 17, W&L 5
W&L 1, Va. Wesleyan 0

Va. Wesleyan 4, W&L 2
Lynchburg 10, W&L 0
Emory & Henry 6, W&L 2
Emory & Henry 8, W&L 3
Hampden-Sydney 10, W&L 0
Eastern Mennonite 5, W&L 4
Hampden-Sydney 3, W&L 2 *
* ODAC Tournament

Women’s Track & Field (9-2)

John Carroll 87, W&L 76

W&L 76, Eastern Mennonite 34
W&L 76, Bridgewater 7

W&L 76, Roanoke 0

Davidson 62, W&L 56

W&L 80, Eastern Mennonite 55
W&L 80, Newport News App. 2
W&L 172, Eastern Mennonite 141
W&L 172, Lynchburg 32

W&L 172, Roanoke 29

W&L 172, Bridgewater 22

 

 

W&L 41

 
  

eee
a

John Morris looks a bit sheepish.

It is spring term of his senior year
at Washington and Lee, and like
many of his classmates, he has taken
a light courseload. His one class has
been let out early this Friday morn-
ing, and he has time on his hands.

**T have absolutely nothing to
do,’’ he confesses. ‘‘Do you have
anything I could do?’’

John, you’ve done more than
enough already.

Such as: 100 career singles vic-
tories and 98 career doubles victories.
Four Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference singles and doubles cham-
pionships. Not to mention two
ODAC Player of the Year awards
and five All-America mentions (three
in doubles and two in singles).

Morris was a member of the 1988
team that captured W&L’s first Divi-
sion III national tennis champion-
ship. The following two years, he
won the NCAA Division III national

42 W&L

doubles championship, and last year

he was the national singles champion
as well. He has now tied the Division
III record for the greatest number of
national individual tennis titles.

It’s no wonder, then, that John
Morris was named the 1990 NCAA
Division III Senior Player of the
Year; that last year he was the only
Division III player selected to the
Rolex Collegiate Tennis All-Star
roster; and that he is currently a can-
didate for an NCAA postgraduate
scholarship.

It’s a startling list of achieve-
ments. But even Morris himself, who
is widely regarded as the best tennis
player in Washington and Lee his-
tory, is rather amazed at what he’s
done in his four years. His remark-
able career concluded May 20, when
he and partner Bill Meadows teamed
to win the NCAA Division III dou-
bles championship.

**! look back and I really have a

 

| Tennis
Menace

National Champion
John Morris, °90, Is
Senior Player of the Year

by Mike Stachura, ’86

hard time believing all that I’ve
accomplished,’’ says the lanky Mem-
phis native. ‘‘I don’t know how it
happened.

**Everything has worked out so
well for me I almost feel guilty.”’

That statement is characteristic of
John Morris—unassuming, but at the
same time deeply proud of what he
has done. He is charming and
thoughtful and quick-witted, but he
can also be reticent and painfully
shy. His close friends point out his
dry but infectious sense of humor,
yet Morris confesses, ‘‘The people
who are my good friends—I don’t
know what they thought of me at
first. I think a lot more people like
me the second or third time they
meet me rather than the first.”’

It’s hard to know just what to
make of Morris. His six-foot, six-
inch frame seems more suited to a
basketball court than a tennis court.
His friendly manner shows he’s

 

<  «— (TATE LES PS

anything but your typical tennis brat.
No long hair here; no hot-pink
cycling shorts peeking beneath his
tennis shorts. No surly, self-indulgent
personality, either. Even chair um-
pires compliment his demeanor.

Morris just happens to be a nice
young man who has attained an
extraordinary amount of success. In
this case, a nice guy has finished
first. In fact, he’s finished first
many, many times.

In his four years at W&L, Morris
has competed for a national cham-
pionship (either a team title or an in-
dividual singles or doubles title) six
times. His freshman year, he played
for the team title against Kalamazoo.
The following spring, there was
another team title match, as well as a
national doubles championship
match. In 1989, he competed for the
national title in both doubles and
singles. And this year, he played in
the doubles championship match. On
four of those occasions, Morris
walked away as a national champion.

It’s hard to imagine recent W&L
athletic history without John Morris.
But he probably would have gone to
college somewhere else, had it not
been for his father’s guidance.

‘*Actually, I wanted to go to
Vanderbilt and had wanted to go to
Vanderbilt forever,’’ Morris remem-
bers. ‘‘But in January of my senior
year in high school, my dad said, ‘I
think you ought to consider W&L. I
thought it was really a fantastic
place, and you’d have a good tennis
career up there.’ My dad really sold
me on it more than anybody.

‘‘P’ve always thought my dad had
really good advice. I’ve always re-
spected his opinions and views, and
when he suggested that, I thought,
‘Now wait a second, he probably
knows what he’s talking about.’ I
listened to him and it turned out to
be the best thing I’ve ever done.”’

Morris began his W&L career in-
auspiciously, however. After a bril-
liant summer of tennis that put him
among the top 100 junior players in
the nation, he entered W&L with
high hopes. But he soon found him-
Self floundering. In mid-October, he

a

was not even among the top six play-
ers, whose matches count for points
in team contests. And an appendec-
tomy in January kept him out of
practice several weeks:

“*It just seemed,”’ he recalls, ‘‘like
I always kept getting knocked back
down.”’

But motivated by his teammates
and Coach Gary Franke, Morris
rallied in the spring. He finished the
year with a 21-5 record in singles. He
won the ODAC No. 6 singles title,
and he and partner Chris Wiman
claimed the ODAC title at No. 3
doubles while posting a 23-4 record.
The Generals finished second at na-
tionals that year, and the Morris era
had begun.

**] thought he could be a player
who would have an impact right
away,’’ says Franke, who has guided
W&L tennis for the last 12 years.
*‘Anytime you can attract a student-
athlete like that to W&L, you know
he has the talent to be a success.

‘*‘What separated John from the
rest was the combination of his abili-
ty with his willingness to challenge
himself to rise to the top of his po-
tential.’’

Morris’s former teammate, David
McLeod, agrees. ‘‘To most of the
people on the team at that time, it
was no surprise that John ended up
winning the national championship,’’
McLeod says. ‘‘In fact, we predicted
abr

Morris’s potential, perhaps hidden
somewhat during his freshman year,
became clear when he was a soph-
omore. He marched through the
ODAC championships without losing
a single game—three straight 6-0, 6-0
victories. He finished the year with a
31-5 record at No. 4 singles and then
helped W&L win its first national
title.

That eventful year provided some
of Morris’s most cherished memories.
He remembers, for instance, a late-
season motivational talk Franke gave
to the team, which he thinks pushed
the players over the hump in their
bid for the title. He recalls the
senior leadership of that year’s
squad, Wiman and McLeod. And

Sr ee

he remembers vividly the decisive
doubles match in the championship
duel with the University of Cali-
fornia-Santa Cruz.

Rain had forced play indoors that
day, and because of limited court
space, the competition dragged on
for more than nine hours. Morris
and doubles partner Wiman were the
last pair to go on, and theirs would
be the deciding match.

**We won the second set in a
tiebreaker, and the whole national
championship hinged on our third
set,’’ Morris says. ‘‘Their coach was
talking to their guys the whole time,
giving them strategy.

**Coach [Franke] came out on the
court, and I was thinking, ‘Is he
going to tell us to serve one way, or

 

have one guy stay up and the other
back, or hit the ball crosscourt, or
something?’

W&L 43

 

**He comes up and looks at me
and Chris, and he says, ‘Guys, you
gotta suck it up.’ That’s all he said.
And we did.”’

Morris laughs as he relates the
story. But the look on his face is one
of respect for Franke, the man who
came to W&L nearly 20 years ago to
coach wrestling, but recently found
himself a candidate for national ten-
nis coach of the decade after leading
W&L five times in a row to the Divi-
sion III national championships.

**He’s always been there for me,”’
Morris says. ‘‘He was really into the
whole deal, and I appreciated that.
He’s a great motivator. I think he
really cares about the team, and that,
more than anything, has meant a lot
to me.”’

Morris, too, cares about his
fellow players. Though he has won
three individual titles and was the
first W&L athlete ever to receive the
Senior Player of the Year award, he
is especially proud of the 1988 vic-
tory, when the entire team won the
national trophy.

**I got more satisfaction out of
winning it for the team, winning it
for Coach,’’ Morris says. ‘‘It was
Chris and David’s senior year, and
they wanted nationals more than
anything in the world, and Coach
really wanted it, and I felt like I was
playing a part in helping them win it.
I don’t know how much satisfaction
I got out of it for myself. My
greatest satisfaction in that was doing
it for them.”’

But Morris soon became a star in
his own right. His junior year, he
was the highest of three Generals na-
tionally ranked in the preseason top
10. Though he had a slow start, he
eventually put together an 11-match
winning streak in singles and was
named ODAC Player of the Year.

At the national tournament,
Morris helped W&L to a fifth-place
finish early in the week’s team com-
petition and then strung together six
more singles victories to capture the
national title. Meanwhile, he and
new partner Bobby Matthews moved
through the doubles draw without
dropping a set. Morris became one

44 W&L

of only three men in Division III
history to win national titles in both
singles and doubles in the same year.

kde Di) aa AEM heehee edie ‘
Se Nn te seat eR a+: ape
. te Re ee Os, ‘lie mapa ee
Riese, nae nite 5 I gn oa i

Z ie ; a ” eek 7 = oe
aes oo Semen =" Re fon
el “aie : eo en? aa .
o es 8 Tamed

salah talk e*Sali ei mz rh a

y . a a ‘<o— ey veil

i Se NW ele
ae SS on]

4 were
onan a lillies > *
igen ae S,
- “ee : m« a ; S ee ° sitions *
oat ere : Wis . E

    
  

 

      
  
 
 

ee
2
tae
Se i ee
. ‘| aie ee %,

ie a

= /

 

Sell

   

Ps
ep pa ens

a :
W&L’s own M&Ms: John Morris (left)
and Bill Meadows

4 j

‘*When I won the singles, that
was all for myself,’’ he says. ‘‘I
could have not won another match
after my sophomore year and been
really happy, but I wanted to do
something for myself. I think I
would have cheated myself if I
hadn’t shot for that.

‘‘That gave me a lot of comfort
this year, knowing that it doesn’t
matter what I do, nobody could ever
take that away from me.”’

Morris wasn’t able to repeat his
singles championship his senior year.
Throughout the season he was
ranked No. | in the nation, but
in the semifinals he lost to Scott
Flippin-Read of Washington College,
the tournament’s No. 3 seed. Morris
finished the year with a 22-6 record
and was once again named ODAC
Player of the Year. Still, a 6-2, 6-1
defeat in the NCAA semifinals might
have tarnished his memories of col-
legiate tennis were it not for the
doubles competition and his M&M-
eating partner Bill Meadows.

Meadows and Morris were paired
only last fall and entered the 1990

season unranked nationally. By
tournament time, they were seeded
eighth, a relatively long shot for the
title. The odds worsened when the
twosome ended up in the same draw
as the No. 1 seeds. But Morris and
Meadows—who ate a pack of M&M
candies for good luck before every
match at the national tournament—
managed three consecutive straight-
set wins and reached the semifinals,
where they faced the Washington
College duo of Larry Gewer and
Flippin-Read, Morris’s nemesis in
the singles semifinals.

In a thrilling three-set match
which ended with a tiebreaker in the
final set, the W&L tandem prevailed
over the tournament’s top seeds and
went on to an easy win in the cham-
pionship final. It was the semifinal
victory, however, that really won the
title for W&L.

**T usually don’t get very emo-
tional on court, but I wanted to win
that match more than anything in the
world,’’ Morris says. ‘‘I really need-
ed that, because I didn’t want to
leave the tournament on such a sour
note. I knew a lot was going to de-
pend on how Bill could play, and he
really came through.

**That was probably one of the
most satisfying wins I’ve ever had.
I’ve definitely had a lot of highs, but
that match meant a lot to me.”’

That sort of appreciation of team
goals seems to characterize Morris’s
approach to the game. He seems
happiest when he has pleased those
around him. He takes seriously his
responsibility as a representative of
Washington and Lee, and he seeks
always to make the right impression.

‘*When I was little, I used to
whine a lot on court,’’ he says. ‘‘“My
mom would tell me, ‘You know, no-
body cares how badly you’re play-
ing.’ I think after hearing that for so
long I finally started trying to keep
my mouth shut.

**T think when I’m on the court
representing W&L, I should strive to
be as classy as I can. It makes W&L
look bad and it makes Coach Franke
look bad if you don’t. I think my
demeanor on the court the last four

 

 

 

ERIN RS RRR ot eR A ce

years has been more out of respect
for W&L and Coach Franke than
anything else. And I think that’s

been very rewarding. How you
carry yourself and how you repre-
sent W&L, that really means a lot to
me, probably more than winning or
losing.”

Such comments leave one wonder-
ing: How can Morris be so polite

and courteous and yet such a fierce
competitor? He confesses he’s had to
make adjustments during his years at
W&L, but a close circle of friends
and the family nature of the tennis
team have made the ride a bit
smoother.

‘*‘When I first got to school, I
wanted to get in a fraternity, and
when I didn’t, that hit me pretty

 

hard,’’ he recalls. ‘‘For a while, I
thought, ‘Who am I going to hang
out with? What am I going to do?’
But I started hanging out with the
guys on the team. Socially, I’m ex-
tremely happy, and I guess I’ve
been fortunate the way things have
worked out.”’

During his last three years in Lex-
ington Morris has lived in the same
location—a haunting, Victorian
house on the corner of Nelson Street
and Lee Avenue known affectionate-
ly as ‘‘Munster.’’ During his stay
there the residents have included an
assortment of tennis players, as well
as other students, who have helped
Morris keep his perspective.

‘*It’s been great living there,’’ he
says. ‘‘But I can come back from
ODACs and half of them won’t even
know I’ve been gone. It keeps me
humble.’’

Humility doesn’t seem to be
much of a problem for John Morris.
He realizes that his days of serious
competitive tennis are over and that
it’s time to move on. ‘‘People ask
me if I’m going to go pro. That’s
absurd. I could never, ever do that,
even if I wanted to, and I don’t.’’

McLeod says of his former team-
mate, ‘‘John Morris is the kind of
person every Division III school
would want to have. Most guys who
are at his level of play have devoted
their lives to tennis. He spends his
free time studying. He’s serious
about tennis, but it’s not his life.’’

Rather than pursuing a tennis
career, Morris hopes to become a
physician. After receiving his degree
in biology from W&L, he plans to
take additional science courses in the
fall and then head to medical school.

If he wins the prestigious NCAA
postgraduate scholarship, it would
certainly help him continue his edu-
cation. But Morris seems content, no
matter what happens next.

‘**T’ve done just what I wanted to
do. I’ve had so many highs the last
four years that it’s almost like I
don’t deserve it. But I’ve really en-
joyed myself, and I’ve had a lot of
success. I think it’s all I ever wanted
it to be.’’

W&L 45

 

FRANK B. HURT continues work

on his book, The Scotch People of
Western Franklin County, Virginia. He lives in
Ferrum, Va.

JAMES J. SALINGER does
volunteer work for the White Plains
(N.Y.) Hospital Medical Center.

DR. GEORGE W. PEDIGO JR. has

been named the first Physician
Laureate by the Kentucky chapter of the American
College of Physicians, a national organization for
internists. He lives in Louisville.

GEORGE L. REYNOLDS was ranked number
one by the U.S. Tennis Association in senior 75
doubles for 1989. He was also ranked number one
in 75 doubles in Florida. During the summer he
makes his home in Haddonfield, N.J.

EDWARD W. CHAPPELL JR.
is a part-time consultant to small
businesses. He lives in Signal Mountain, Tenn.

WILLIAM L. WILSON has retired as a partner
in the law firm of Wilson, Wilson & Plain. The
Owensboro, Ky., resident now serves the firm as
‘of counsel.’’

EDWARD E. STOVER still practices
law with the firm of Stover & Stover
in Washington, N.J.

WILLIAM L. SHANNON serves on

a three-man committee to represent
the Mose Ruben Trust and to review and recom-
mend grants for the benefit of charitable and/or
community projects for Shelby County, Ky. He
makes his home in Shelbyville.

Golfer EDWIN C. CUTTINO was

recently recognized in Sports II-
lustrated magazine for having made his third hole-
in-one in a year. Cuttino owns an insurance agency
and lives in Sumter, S.C.

Four-term Indiana state legislator

WILLIAM S. LATZ is also board
chairman of the United Way of Indiana and ex-
ecutive director of the Indiana state office building
commission. He lives in Fort Wayne, Ind.

DR. CHARLES A. MEAD JR. has retired from
the practice of orthopedic surgery and as chief
medical officer for CSX Transportation Co. He
lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

WALTER E. FRYE works part time

as a substitute teacher in the Goleta,
Calif., School District. Goleta is a suburb of Santa
Barbara.

WILLARD H. HART retired from

the administration of Edison State
Community College in Piqua, Ohio, in December
1989. He now lives in Fort Wayne, Ind.

LESLIE F. JAMES retired in
January as controller for a ready-mix
concrete and block manufacturing company in
Bradenton, Fla. He now lives in Hickory, N.C.

H. PETRIE MITCHELL works as a volunteer at
Mission Haven, a Presbyterian Church housing
facility for missionary personnel returning from
overseas assignments.

After nine months of retirement,

JOSEPH B. MARTIN took courses
in real estate and became a sales agent for GSH
Residential in Williamsburg, Va.

DR. WILLIAM C. SMITH JR. retired from full-
time pastoral service on Dec. 31, 1988. He now
performs interim part-time ministry and volunteer
work in the Southern Conference of the United
Church of Christ. He lives in Greensboro, N.C.

C. TAIT TRUSSELL writes a newspaper column
that is syndicated to the New York Times Regional
Newspaper Group. He lives in Leesburg, Fla.

P. JAMES FAHEY retired in July

1989 after 29 years as president of the
Maryland division of the Creasey Co. and Wet-
terau Inc. food distributors. He lives jn
Hagerstown, Md.

In March ROGER H. MUDD, congressional cor-
respondent for PBS’s ‘‘MacNeil/Lehrer
NewsHour,”’ received the fifth annual Joan
Barone Award for distinguished journalism and
excellence in Washington-based national af-
fairs/public affairs reporting.

Former Secretary of the Army JOHN

O. MARSH JR. has joined the law
firm of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske, Weiner, Beckhorn
& Hanes in Falls Church, Va.

DR. T. KYLE CRESON JR. is in the

private practice of hematology and
oncology in Memphis, Tenn. He is on the board
of directors of the Boy Scouts and is president of
the western division of the American Lung
Association.

WILLIAM A. HOCKETT JR.’s company, Hock-
ett Associates Inc., has been named one of the
**50 Leading Executive Recruiting Firms in the
United States’’ by the national monthly newslet-
ter Executive Recruiter News. He lives in Los
Altos, Calif.

R. SUTER HUDSON re-
cently received an award for
outstanding contributions
and technical achievement at
Armstrong World Industries
Inc. during 1989. Hudson is
senior research scientist with
Armstrong. He lives in Lan-
caster, Pa.

 

 

forward to hearing from you!

 

Guidelines for Submitting Class Notes

We welcome information about our alumni for the Class Notes section of W&L. When sending in news, please
be sure to include your full name, nickname or preferred name, class year, current address, and telephone number.
For wedding announcements, we must have the name of the bride and groom, the date and location of the wed-
ding, and the names of any alumni who were members of the wedding party. We do not print news of engagements,
and because of space limitations, we cannot print wedding photographs.
In the case of a birth announcement, please be sure to include the names of both parents, the child’s name, the
birthdate, and the names and ages of any siblings.
Send your news to the Office of Publications, Washington and Lee University, Lexington VA 24450. We look

 

 

46 W&L

 

 

LEONARD C. GREENEBAUM has

joined the law firm of Baker &
Hostetler as a partner in the firm’s Washington,
D.C., office. He will continue his practice in the
areas of civil litigation and white-collar crime.
Greenebaum was previously managing partner of
Sachs, Greenebaum & Tayler. He has represented
former Navy procurement official Stuart Berlin
in the Pentagon fraud case; Robert W. Owen at
the Iran-Contra Congressional hearings; and of-
ficers of McDonnel Douglas Corp. in an investiga-
tion of alleged illegal foreign payments.

After two and a half years in Hong

Kong, CHARLES F. DAVIS has
moved to Taipei, where he is establishing a branch
for Royal Trust Co. of Canada.

DR. ALFRED J. MAGOLINE JR. is in his 20th
year of practicing ear, nose, and throat medicine
in Akron, Ohio. He is also an assistant professor
of otolaryngology at Northeastern University’s
College of Medicine.

JOHN S. MOREMEN is the founder of The
Sulgrave Press in Louisville, Ky., which publishes
books on topics related to the Southeast. Moremen
works part time as executive director of industry
relations for Brown-Forman Beverage Co.

LEONARD C. GREENEBAUM
(See ’56).

CHARLES F. DAVIS JR. (See ’57).

EVAN J. KEMP is chairman of the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. The
Washington, D.C., resident has been with the com-
Mission since 1987.

DR. JON B. MCLIN works for the
International Labor Office in Ge-
neva. He and his wife have two children.

JOHN L. REYNOLDS JR. is a financial represen-
tative for Fidelity Investments. He recently re-
ceived the Fidelity National Commitment to Ex-
cellence Award. Reynolds lives in Sandy, Utah.

DAVID F. BEALE is a practicing at-
‘ torney in Houston. While represent-
ing a Hungarian bank in a lawsuit in California,
he spent four months in Budapest and Vienna. He
iS currently forming a company to assist American
business people in Hungary.

 

 

Planned Giving Opportunities: Gift Annuities

You might be surprised to learn that Washington and Lee offers
a planned gift opportunity that provides a unique means of making
a mark on the University while reserving the right to receive an in-
come from your gift for the remainder of your life. Substantial in-
come tax benefits will accrue as a result of your generosity, and
depending upon your age and the capital appreciation of the assets
you convey to make your gift, a portion of your income will be
non-taxable.

Called charitable gift annuities, these simple contracts provide
for the payment of a fixed income to you in return for your making
a gift to the University. W&L’s good name and its enviable record
of financial stewardship serve to ensure that your income will be
paid. In addition, the psychic income you derive from having
established a legacy from which all future generations of Washington
and Lee men and women will benefit cannot be minimized. For ex-
ample, even though you receive an income from your gift, through
your benefaction you can create a named scholarship fund, establish
an endowment for the University Library, or fund any of a number
of important projects for which support is needed.

The chart below details the income and tax benefits that make
the gift annuity program so attractive:

Age 60 70 80
Gift $50,000 $50,000 $50,000
Cost Basis $25,000 $25,000 $25,000
Fixed Return 7.0% 7.8% 9.6%
Annual Income $3,500 $3,900 $4,800
Tax-Free Portion of Income $560 $789 $1,225
Capital Gain Tax Due 0 0 0

Income Tax Deduction $23,008 $24,891 $27,011

Please note that if you use appreciated assets such as stocks to make
your gift, you incur no capital gain tax on the transfer of those assets
to the University, thus putting the full market value of the assets to work
for you in generating income.

If you itemize deductions the IRS permits you to deduct up to 30%
of your adjusted gross income each year as a charitable deduction for
this type of gift. In addition, any portion of the income tax deduction
that you cannot absorb in the year you make the gift may be carried
over for up to five subsequent tax years providing a six-year period
in which to absorb the entire deduction.

Furthermore, if you elect to make your gift by writing a check to
the University, the tax-free portion of your annual income will increase
significantly. Assuming a cost basis of $50,000 in the example above,
if you make your gift at age 60 the tax-free portion of your income
would be $1,120; if you are age 70 it increases to $1,579; and if you
are age 80 the tax-free portion of your income climbs to $2,448.

lf you would like to learn more about how you can make an im-
portant contribution to the future of the University through this type
of gift, please call the Development Office at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

W&L 47

 

 

He was crusty, curmudgeonly, fiercely
independent, and even a bit caustic at
times. He was a hypochondriac and a
thorn in the side of many contemporaries.
But he is Robbins Gates’ hero, none-
theless.

His name is George Mason, and he,
probably more than any other American,
is responsible for America’s Bill of
Rights. Yet he has been largely over-
looked by history. Now Gates, 44, is try-
ing to rectify that omission.

Gates is the coauthor and star of a
one-man show called ‘‘George Mason of
Gunston Hall.’’ First produced two years
ago in observance of the Constitution’s
bicentennial, the play has been video-
taped, has aired on a Virginia public
television station, and is currently being
marketed to schools and colleges for use
in the classroom.

Gates, who recently retired after
teaching political science at Mary Baldwin
College for 22 years, admits that he
himself knew little about Mason before
becoming involved with the project. But
he did plenty of research, and now, he
says, ‘‘George Mason is part of me, and
I’m part of him.”’

Starring in the play came easily to
Gates, who confesses he has been ‘‘a ham
actor for a long time.’’ The show was
videotaped at Gunston Hall, Mason’s
restored plantation home in Northern
Virginia. Dressed in a frockcoat and
powdered wig, Gates plays the part of the
cordial host and shows his guests—the
audience—around the grounds. All the
while, he expounds upon his favorite sub-
ject, politics.

He condemns King George III,
criticizes his fellow delegates to the Con-
stitutional Convention, and argues for-
cibly against slavery (‘‘I told [those atten-
ding the convention] that the institution
of slavery prevents the immigration of
whites, that it produces the most per-
nicious effect on manners, that every
master of slaves is born a petty tyrant,
and that slaves bring the judgment of
heaven on a country’’). And from time
to time, he also complains to the audience
about his problems with gout.

Mason made an important contribu-
tion to American history, Gates believes.
‘‘He wasn’t a member of the Virginia
dynasty. He had to compete with

 

 

Retired Professor Robbins Gates, ’44,
Brings George Mason to Life in One-Man Show

, ; Pi
- ” “Ps

Robbins Gates as George Mason

Washington, Jefferson, and Madison. He
was never president. But he got everything
going with the Bill of Rights, and he
should at least be remembered for that.”’

Gates hopes that as Americans
observe the bicentennial of the Bill of
Rights, George Mason will begin to
receive the attention he deserves.

**After you read all his papers, you
either have to be fond of Mason or hate
him,’’ Gates says. ‘‘And I happen to be
fond of him.”’

The one-man show toured throughout
Virginia, where Gates says it was
favorably received. But after 26 live per-
formances, its star decided to end the run.
**T was ready,’’ he says, ‘‘to stop running
around in 100-degree weather in an
unbearably hot costume.’’ He has kept
his hand in the theater, though—he
recently directed a play in Staunton, and
this summer, he will take the part of Gov.
William Berkeley in a production in
Jamestown, Va. Still, he holds a special
place in his heart for George Mason.

**I’ve done what I’ve always accused
biographers of doing: I’ve fallen in love
with the biographee,’’ he says. ‘‘I think
he was quite a guy.’’

 

 

48 W&L

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
 

DR. ROBERT P. CARROLL JR. of
doches, Texas, is chairman of the Texas Medical _
Association’s Hospital Medical Staff

While maintaining his private practice, Carrol] also
serves as secretary to the Nacogdoches Indepen- |
dent School District Board.

<é' er -~ -
HARRY F. PRESTON of Calabasas, Calif. isan

associate vice president of the national real e:

firm of Coldwell Banker. Preston joined Coldwell.

Banker in 1979 following a nine-year career with —

Capitol Magnetic Products, a division of Capitol

Records. 4

'

DR. ALEXANDER J. ALEXAN- —

DER JR. recently received a doctor —

of philosophy degree in immunology from the

University of Kentucky and was elected a fellow

in the American College of Physicians.

J. M. GORE FRIEDRICHS is employed by
Morgan Keegan & Co. in New Orleans.

RICHARD C. COLTON JR. is

senior vice president for national ac- —
counts with Lykes Bros. Steamship Co. He lives
in New Orleans.

The former chairman of the U.S. International 4
Trade Commission, ALFRED E. ECKES JR., has —
been named the Ohio Eminent Research Professor
in Contemporary History at Ohio University. —
Eckes has served the Trade Commission since 1981
and was chairman from 1982 to 1984. .

SAMUEL T. PATTERSON JR. practices law in ,
Petersburg, Va. He is also a substitute judge for -
the 11th Judicial District. He and his wife live in
Petersburg.

DR. PETER S. TRAGER, a dentist in Marietta a
Ga., has been selected for membership in the Pierre
Fauchard Academy, an international honorary —
dental organization. *

REX H. WOOLDRIDGE, his wife, Lisa, and thelial !
two children, Christi, 15, and Maggie, 14, livein —
Houston, where Wooldridge is a principal in the —

architectural firm of Kendall/Heaton Associates.

GEORGE H. DUNN is an alcohol
and drug counselor in Washington,
D.C., where he lives with his wife, Peggy. 2

JOHN E. MOORE is chairman of the Kansas —
Technology Enterprise Corp., a $9 million con- —
sortium of private industry, education, and the —
State of Kansas. Moore, a resident of Wichita, is —
also president of the Kansas region of the N
Conference of Christians and Jews and a vice
president of the Kansas Foodbank Warehouse. :

=

“*%
J

1 oe

-

 

PAUL S. MURPHY is senior vice president and
international sulphur broker with Freeport
McMokan. He lives in New Orleans.

LT. COL. RICHARD H. BASSETT

has been assigned to the Defence In-
telligence Agency in Washington, D.C. He will be
a section chief in the Soviet/Warsaw Pact division
of the Directorate for Research.

DR. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN and

his wife, Gini, operate ‘‘Five Oaks
Farm,’’ a quarter horse and Arabian horse farm
jin Eden, N.C.

In January JACK A. KIRBY
joined the law firm of
Fronefield & deFuria in
Media, Pa. He concentrates
his practice in the area of
estate planning and estate
administration. Kirby and
his family live in Rose-
mont, Pa.

 

J. T. JED) LYKES IIL is senior vice president and
chief financial officer of Lykes Bros. Steamship
Co. Inc. in New Orleans.

WILLIAM P. MCKELWAY JR. was awarded
best in show in the writing category by United
Press International for his coverage of the Pitt-
ston coal! strike in Virginia. McKelway, who lives
in Richmond, has been a reporter for the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch since 1972. He currently
serves as the newpaper’s state roving reporter.

University of Rochester basketball coach
MICHAEL C. G. NEER was selected as the Divi-
sion II! coach of the year for the 1989-90 season.
Neer has compiled a 204-153 record in his 14
seasons of coaching the Yellowjackets’ basketball
team. His team boasted a 27-5 record this year on
its way to a national championship.

Former New York Postmaster JOHN M. NOLAN
has left the postal service after 19 years to join
Merril! Lynch. He is chief operating officer of
Tritech Services, a new Merrill Lynch company
specializing in mail, proxy, and computer and
graphic printing services. Nolan lives in Prince-
ton, N.J.

ROBERT W. ROOT JR. is a hydrogeologist with
CH2M HILL, a consulting environmental
engineering firm. The company performs
hydrogeological studies of hazardous waste sites
controlled by the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, the Department of Energy, and several
municipal and private sector clients. He lives in
Vienna, Va.

FRANK C. BROOKS JR. is the

president and chief executive officer
of Aapps Corp., a computer software development
and marketing company in Memphis, Tenn.

HARRY D. LETOUR-
NEAU JR. of Charlotte is
now executive vice president
for NCNB Corp. He is in
charge of corporate, mer-
chant, and fiduciary support
_ for NCNB Support Services
Inc. He most recently was
- senior vice president in
charge of NCNB’s cash
| Management division.

 

ALBERT M. ORGAIN IV
has been named chairman of
the litigation department of
the Richmond law firm of
Sands, Anderson, Marks;
and Miller. He practices in
the areas of insurance litiga-
tion, aviation law, and pro-
ducts liability.

 

ROBERT R. HATTEN is a partner

in the Newport News, Va., law firm
of Patten, Wornom & Watkins. He specializes in
asbestos litigation. He and his wife, Shirley, have
three children: Cary, Meredith, and Chris.

DR. FREDRICK H. SANDS of Maui, Hawaii, is
cofounder of Mauitomorrow, a nonprofit office
advancing growth management and the protection
of Maui’s natural areas.

THE REV. LAURIE A. MCAL-

PINE is rector of St. John’s Epis-
copal Church in Wytheville, Va. He had been assis-
tant rector at Trinity Church in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
McAlpine and his wife, Pamela, have two children:
Katherine, 12, and Anna, 6.

EVERETT A. MARTIN JR. is

a judge of the Juvenile and Domestic
Relations Court for the City of Norfolk. He was
elected to a six-year term by the 1990 Virginia
General Assembly.

DAVID J. TURK was selected by a ‘‘Timesland’’
panel of the Roanoke Times & Worid-News as the
high school volleyball coach of the year for
1989-90. Turk led his Salem High School team to
a 14-2 record. He lives in Troutville, Va.

GARY J. BORCHARD is product

manager of the generic line for the
Warner-Chilcott division of Warner-Lambert in
Morris Plains, N.J. He and his wife, Susan, have
three children: Kristin, Bryan, and Brittany.

W. KENNEDY SIMPSON lives in Louisville, Ky.,
where he is a partner in the firm of Stites & Har-
bison. He concentrates on products liability and
medical malpractice defense work.

DAVID H. SLATER is a reservoir management
adviser for Mobil North Sea Ltd. He and his wife,
DeAnne, and their three children plan to move
from London to Aberdeen, Scotland, this summer.

DR. CAREY D. CHISHOLM is

residency director for emergency
medicine at Methodist Hospital of Indiana. His
daughter, Kelsey Leigh, is 2.

In March, President Bush nominated THOMAS
L. SANSONETTI to be the solicitor of the Depart-
ment of the Interior. If confirmed by the Senate,
he will be Secretary Manuel Lujan’s top lawyer
in charge of 230 attorneys.

JOSEPH L. CARRERE is em-
ployed by Morgan Keegan & Co. in
New Orleans.

WILLIAM E. CRAVER III is president of
Passport Internationale Ltd. He and his wife,

Elizabeth, are rebuilding their home on Sullivan’s
Island, S.C., following Hurricane Hugo.

In March, New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio nominated
JOSEPH E. KANE to be an administrative law
judge in Atlantic County. Kane, who is legally
blind, has served as chairman of the New Jersey
Commission for the Blind and Visually Impaired.

EVERETT A. MARTIN JR. (See ’74).

PATRICK J. REILLY is now a partner with the
law firm of Gross, McGinley, LaBarre, and Eaton
in Allentown, Pa. He has been with the firm since
1983. He also recently served as an assistant Lehigh
County solicitor. He and his wife, Adrienne, and
their two children live in Coopersburg, Pa.

MARK L. DICKEN has returned

from two years’ missionary service in
Liberia and Sierra Leone, West Africa, and has
resumed his studies toward a master of divinity
degree at Christian Theological Seminary. He lives
in Greenfield, Ind.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR. is an attorney with the
New York City law firm of Davis, Markel &
Edwards.

RICHARD B. MCDANIEL is a techmed specialist
for the Radifocus Division of the Terumo Corp.
He lives in Stockton, N.J.

MARK A. PUTNEY is vice president and manager
of the Richmond office of Charter Properties Inc.,
a regional real estate development, leasing, and
management company. He and his wife, Lila, have
two children: Scott, 9, and Elisabeth, 6.

RICHARD T. ZINK is associate vice president of
investments with Legg Mason in Hunt Valley, Md.
He lives in Baltimore.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV of

Alexandria, Va., is a fellow of the
Society of Actuaries. As a consulting actuary, he
helps employers design, fund, and administer
employee retirement programs.

KENNETH W. ROSE, assistant to the director of
the Rockefeller Archive Center in North Tar-
rytown, N.Y., is responsible for the center’s
newsletter and its new guide to collections. He had
previously been senior editorial assistant for the
Encyclopedia of Cleveland History.

LESLIE A. COTTER JR. serves on

the board of directors of the South
Carolina Joint Underwriting Association Legal
Professional Liability Insurance Committee. He
practices law with Richardson, Plowden, Grier,
and Howser in Columbia, S.C.

COVERT J. GEARY is a partner in the New
Orleans law firm of Jones, Walker et. al.

BRUCE D. WILMOT is director of the White
House News Summary. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

WILLIAM L. ABERNATHY JR.
formed the law partnership of Shoff-
ner and Abernathy on Jan. 1, 1990, in Shelbyville,
Tenn. Formerly on active duty with the U.S.
Army, Abernathy now lives in Bell Buckle, Tenn.

JAY A. DIESING is head of the commercial paper
origination unit of Chemical Bank in New York
City. He joined Chemical’s world banking group
in 1981.

W&L 49

 

 

Lewises, Twombly, and Acquavella
Remain Active in the Arts Community

 

ra
Sydney and Frances Lewis are congratulated by Tom Wolfe as they accept the Skowhegan
Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney Award for their role as benefactors of the visual arts.

Several Washington and Lee alumni
have recently made headlines for their in-
volvement in the arts community.

In April, Cy Twombly, ’53, Sydney
Lewis, ’40, ’43L, and Frances Lewis were
honored during the 44th annual
Skowhegan School of Painting and
Sculpture Awards Dinner held in New
York City.

The Lewises received the Gertrude
Vanderbilt Whitney Award for their con-
tributions to the arts world. In 1985 they
donated 3,500 pieces of their 20th-century
art collection to the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts. They also helped to fund a
wing of the museum with Mr. and Mrs.
Paul Mellon.

**The Whitney Award is given for acts
of service that benefit the public in enjoy-
ing the visual arts,’’ says Roy Leaf, ex-
ecutive director of the Skowhegan School
of Painting and Sculpture, which presents
the awards. ‘‘But in the case of Sydney
and Frances Lewis, we also wanted to
recognize their personal involvement in
the lives of artists.

**They supported many artists early in
their careers and nurtured them. It was
very important to these artists to have the
Lewises show an interest in them.’’

Both Sydney and Frances Lewis have
served as trustees of Washington and Lee.
Lewis Hall, which houses the University’s
School of Law, is named in their honor.

The Whitney Award was presented to
the Lewises by Tom Wolfe, ’51, best-
selling author and a trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Twombly, an artist living in Rome,
received the Skowhegan Medal for Paint-
ing. The award is given, Leaf explains,
for ‘‘a sustained period of art of signifi-
cant quality.’’

Twombly’s paintings are exhibited
throughout Europe and in this country.
He is the son of the late E. P. (Cy)
Twombly, who served as athletic direc-
tor and coach at Washington and Lee for
many years.

Meanwhile, art dealer William Ac-
quavella, ’59, continues to make his mark
on the art world as well. He and
Sotheby’s, the auction house, have agreed
to buy the entire inventory of the Pierre
Matisse Gallery in New York.

Acquavella will be the managing part-
ner of the new joint venture company, to
be called Acquavella Modern Art.

The Matisse collection includes 2,300
works by artists such as Joan Miro,
Alberto Giacometti, Jean Dubuffet, Marc
Chagall, and Yves Tanguy.

**As far as I know, it is the biggest art
deal both in the number of paintings and
the art value that has been done in the art
world,’’ Acquavella recently told the New
York Times.

 

 

50

W&L

CAPT. DAVID W. ENGEL is now a civilian
employed at the Office of General Counsel at the

U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs jn

Washington, D.C. He and his wife, Laura, have
three children.

RANDOLPH B. GEORGE still manages two
family farms in Frederick County, Md., and Loy-
doun County, Va. He recently joined the Loudoun
County Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court
system in Leesburg, Va., as juvenile probation of-
ficer. He lives in Brunswick, Md.

ANDREW M. GRISEBAUM of Houston is a
partner in Trient Partners Inc., a Houston-based
company which owns and operates Blockbuster
Video Superstores in Portland, Ore., and Seattle.

PATRICK M. ROBINSON is a real estate con-
sultant for LaSalle Partners in New York. He and
his wife, Jennifer, and daughter, Olivia, live in
New York City.

After six years as assistant manager of the Gover- _

nors Club in Tallahassee, Fla., MARK M. SUBER _

is now employed as a realtor-associate in the com-

mercial/investment division of Investors Realty of —
He specializes in investment —

Tallahassee.
properties.

JAMES K. VINES is a law clerk for William H. _
Rehnquist, chief justice of the U.S. Supreme —
Court. Vines and his wife, Stewart, live in Ar- 4

lington, Va.

FRANK D. AGNEW is employedin

the corporate finance department of
Morgan Keegan & Co.

CATHARINE M. GILLIAM is the director of the
Historic Fredericksburg Foundation Inc. She —
previously worked as program coordinator with
the Maryland Environmental Trust and the Na- —

tional Trust for Historic Preservation.

G. ERIC PLUM is doing postdoctoral work in —

nucleic acid physical chemistry at Rutgers Univer-
sity. He and his wife, Sandra, live in Edison, N.J.

TIMOTHY J. STUART is now the head of the _
North American export soybean desk of Louis ©
Dreyfus Corp., a grain exporting company. He ~

lives in Westport, Conn.

BRUCE E. DAMARK isa paralegal _
with the San Diego law firm of 7

Klinedinst & Fliehman. John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L,

former president of W&L’s Alumni Board of —

Directors, is a partner in the firm.

PATRICK C. JORDAN practices corporate law

with the firm of McInerny & Jordan. He lives in
Washington, D.C.

MARYLOUISE LUCCHI is an administrative law
judge in New Jersey. She lives in Hackensack.

MICHAEL D. MAHONEY began pursuing a
master’s degree in business administration at Pep-
perdine University in January. He continues to live
in Los Angeles.

BONNIE L. PAUL is a partner in the law firm
of Litten, Sipe & Miller. She practices in the firm’s
Harrisonburg, Va., office.

DESMOND V. TOBIAS is an associate with the
law firm of Barker & Janecky in Mobile, Ala. He
had been an assistant attorney general in Florida.

STEVEN J. TRANELLI, formerly of Nixon
Hargrove Devans Doyle, is now associated with

 

ra
x

-

he law firm of Chamberlain, D’Amanda, Op-
nheimer & Greenfield. He works in the firm’s
real estate department and lives in Rochester, N.Y.

After receiving a master’s degree in
business administration from the
Universit) of Virginia last May, R. ALLEN
HAIGHT went to work for Schroder Ventures in

London.

1ST LT. DAVID R. HERR JR. flies helicopters
for Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 369
“Gunfighters’”’ in Camp Pendleton, Calif.

STEVEN E. LEWIS is vice president of First
Atlanta Bank. He joined the bank in 1984.

After spending five years in product marketing at
Lotus software in New York City, PETER M.
MULLER is in the first year of the master of
business administration program at Babson Col-
lege in Wellesley, Mass.

THOMAS B. SHEPHERD III has been named a
partner in the firm of Watkins Ludlam & Stennis
in Jackson, Miss. He and his wife, Mary Scott,
have two sons, Banks and Martin.

DR. MICHAEL E. SINGER recently received a
doctorate in international political economy from
the London School of Economics. He now works
in the international division of the Union Bank of
Switzerland in Zurich.

T. JEFFREY WELLS is assistant staff attorney
with the United States Court of Appeals for the
4th Circuit. He lives in Richmond.

CAPT. GORDON R. HAMMOCK

has been reassigned from Aviano Air
Base, Italy, to McGuire Air Force Base, N.J.,
where he is the chief of military justice.

JEFFREY S. BRITTON is the wine
off-premise market supervisor for the
metro New York sales territory.

MARTIN J. GUTOWSKI is enrolled in the fish
and wildlife master’s degree program at Penn-
sylvania State University.

JULIAN HENNIG III graduated from the Univer-
sity of South Carolina School of Law in May 1989.
He now works for a law firm in Columbia, S.C.

After receiving a degree from the Owen Graduate
Schoo! of Management at Vanderbilt University,
ROBERT G. MCCULLOUGH JR. works for
Trans ATM Inc. in Nashville, Tenn.

DAVID V. MESSNER is a numismatist and ac-
count representative with Devonshire Rare Coin
Galleries in Boston.

PAMELA D. WALTHER is associated with the
law firm of McDermott, Will & Emery. She works
in the firm’s Washington, D.C., office. She had
been with the Washington firm of Heron, Bur-
chette, Ruckert & Rothwell.

Prior to beginning a residency in obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of South Carolina-
Richland Memorial Hospital, JOSEPH G.
WHELAN III will spend his summer working at
a refugee hospital in Tel Aviv, Israel.

JAMES J. WHITE IV is the sales manager at E.P.
Nisbet Oil Co. in Charlotte.

Last fall DONALD E. WILLIAMS JR. was
reelected first selectman of Thompson, Conn., by
the widest margin in the town’s history.

DAVID W. HOWARD is the assis-

tant general manager for the Best
Western Heritage House Hotel in Hyannis, Cape
Cod, Mass.

SYDNEY E. MARTHINSON is a regional sales
trainer for First Union Bank in the eastern region
of North Carolina. She lives in Raleigh.

E. W. (CORKY) PARKINSON III is attending
flight school, Initial Entry Rotary Wing, at Fort
Rucker, Ala.

DOROTHY SULZBERGER SPIETH practices
law with the firm of Kaestner, Galanides & Spieth.
She and her husband, George, live in Richmond.

DAVID V. COLLERAIN works for

the accounting firm of Smith and
Howard in Atlanta. He recently passed the cer-
tified public accountant examination.

MATTHEW E. DIEMER is assistant branch
manager of Central Fidelity Bank in Farmville, Va.

PAUL E. M. HART has moved from Richmond
to Arlington, Va., where he works for Virginia Im-
ports Ltd., a wine and beer wholesaler.

DAVID S. MAKEPEACE is a credit analyst with
NCNB in Charlotte. Robert P. Haley, ’89, Charles
L. Lyle, ’88, and Richard G. Parkhurst Jr., ’88,
are also employed by the bank.

MICHAEL D. WEBB is in the management
potential group of Provident Savings Bank in
Jersey City, N.J. He had formerly been with
Bankers Trust in New York and Delaware.

MANUEL E. BONILLA is a staff

assistant/legislative correspondent
for Wisconsin Sen. Robert Kasten. Bonilla lives
in Burke, Va.

LEE D. BRADING is a staff accountant for BDO
Seidman in Atlanta.

J. MICHELLE BROCKMAN is a representative
for Rorer Pharmaceuticals in southern Illinois,
western Kentucky, and western Tennessee. She is
based in Paducah, Ky.

MARK G. BRYANT is a paralegal in the New
York City law firm of Davis, Markel & Edwards.

JEFFREY P. CUMMINGS is a loan review
analyst in a commercial lending training program
with Mercantile Safe Deposit & Trust Co. in
Baltimore.

ALLAN R. DICK JR. is a graduate student in the
history program at Pennsylvania State University.

KIMBERLY M. EADIE serves in the Peace Corps
in Guinea, West Africa, where she teaches English
to 1lth- and 12th-graders.

LEEANN M. FLOOD is employed by
BFGoodrich in Akron, Ohio. Classmate
CHRISTOPHER DEMOVELLAN works in the
same business unit.

MICHAEL A. FORRESTER works in the acquisi-
tion and private finance group at Dean Witter. He
lives in New York City.

DAVID S. GROVE has completed the consumer
associate training program with First Union Na-
tional Bank. He is now an assistant branch
manager in Columbus, Ga.

CAPT. STEVEN P. HAMMOND was the honor
graduate of the Lawyer’s Military Justice Course
in January. Hammond completed the eight-week
course at the Naval Justice School in Newport,
R.I., and received the American Bar Association’s
award for professional merit.

DAVID N. KLABO is a first-year graduate stu-
dent in economics at the University of Virginia.

SUSAN C. LEWIS is associate editor of children’s
books at Betterway Publications Inc. in Crozet,
Va. She lives in Charlottesville.

NORA L. LIGGETT is a clerk for Frank F.
Orowota III, chief justice of the Tennessee
Supreme Court. In August she will join the Mem-
phis law firm of Herskell, Donelson, Bearman,
Williams, Adams & Kirsch.

MICHAEL R. MAGOLINE attends medical
school at Case Western Reserve University in
Cleveland.

ELIZABETH S. MILES lives in Louisville, Ky.,
where she is taking classes in order to apply to
physical therapy school. She also works in a
physical therapy unit in a hospital and teaches
swim lessons to preschool children.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN is a second-year student
at Washington and Lee’s School of Law.

JOHN G. PIPKIN, a graduate student at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, has
been recognized by The Wittenberg Review: An
Undergraduate Journal of the Liberal Arts.
Pipkin’s essay, ‘‘Empedocles on Etna,’’ has been
accepted for publication in the inaugural issue of
the Wittenberg University journal, which is billled
as the first national, undergraduate, inter-
disciplinary journal of college writing.

KENNON M. (BENNY) SAVAGE is a guidance
counselor, teacher, and coach at Gaston Day
School in Charlotte.

JULIA C. SHEPPARD is a law student at the
University of Virginia. This summer she planned
to work as an associate with Miles & Stockbridge
in Washington, D.C.

CHRISTOPHER L. WILLARD is a first-year law
student at Wake Forest University.

TRACY A. WILLIAMS is a graduate student in
communication sciences and disorders at the
University of Georgia.

 

 

 

Marriages

PAUL M. WOJCIK, ’69, and Susan Holly Korn
on Jan. 13, 1990. He is vice president, general
counsel, and corporate secretary of the Bureau of
National Affairs Inc., a Washington, D.C.-based
publishing company.

DR. RICHARD S. MCCAIN, ’74, and Claudia
Moore Walker on Dec. 2, 1989, in Columbia, S.C.
McCain is a surgeon at the McCain Orthopaedic
Clinic in Columbia.

RICHARD C. KEATLEY JR., ’81, and Kay
Fortescue on Sept. 30, 1989. Keatley is a group
marketing representative with EQUICOR, an
employee benefit products company. The couple
lives in Norfolk, Va.

GEORGE M. LUPTON III, ’84, and Karen Ann
Stiegler on March 3, 1990, in Mobile, Ala. Six

WaL 51

 

 

 

Christmas in April

 

Christmas came a little early for
more than 100 Washington, D.C.,
residents this year.

Eight months early, to be exact.
On April 28, 3,000 volunteers fanned
out to 97 homes and 6 shelters
throughout the city. They brought
with them hammers, saws, paint
brushes, and building materials. They
replaced roofs, rebuilt porches, in-
stalled refrigerators and stoves, and
generally brightened the homes they
visited. In some cases, they even
mowed lawns.

Every April since 1983, volunteers
have brought Christmas early to low-
income, elderly, and handicapped
residents of Washington. In the seven
years since the program began, hun-
dreds of homes and shelters have
been renovated.

The Washington area Christmas
in April was started by Trevor Arm-
brister, ’56, who is senior editor of
Reader’s Digest. ‘‘Trevor went to
Midland, Texas, in 1982, where the
first Christmas in April program
began, to write a story about it,’’ ex-
plains Laura Capuco, executive direc-
tor of Washington’s Christmas in
April organization. ‘‘He decided a

program like it should be establish-
ed here, and he was really a driving
force in getting it off its feet.’’

Churches, community organiza-
tions, and service groups refer houses
to Christmas in April for possible
renovation. The homeowners are
unable to make their own repairs
because of their age, disability, or
financial hardship. ‘‘But if they are
able, or if they have family members
who are able, they work along with
the volunteers,’’ Capuco says.

The volunteers themselves seem
to enjoy the one-day event as much
as anybody. ‘‘We’ve already heard
from some people who say they can’t
wait till next year,’’ says Capuco.

Since Armbrister began his in-
volvement with Christmas in April,
the organization has grown to include
more than 40 chapters across the
country. Capuco gives much of the
credit to Armbrister, who now serves
as national president. ‘‘He really
helped bring Christmas in April into
the national spotlight,’’ she believes.

“*Trevor’s been a very strong
leader, and this is truly a wonderful
community service,’’ Capuco says.
**He’s a remarkable person.’’

 

 

52

W&L

  
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
    
     
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
 
  

W&L alumni were in the wedding party: George

Lupton Jr., ’57, Alan Pritchard, ’84, Chris Robin. _
son, 84, George Youmans, ’84, Tom Cocke, "84, %
and Ben Hale, ’85.

B. DARBY BROWER, ’85, and Jennifer Caton
of Jacksonville, Fla., on Nov. 12, 1989, _
Groomsmen included Bill Brown, ’85, and Franka
“Tripp”’ Brower, ’82. Brower is a private bank.
ing manager for NCNB in Jacksonville.

ALEXANDER F. CASTELLI, ’86, and Heidi
Lynn Helgerson on Oct. 21, 1989, in Po
Ore. The couple lives in Arlington, Va.

NEAL M. DEBONTE, ’88, and Kim Diehl on ©
June 17, 1989. DeBonte is employed as the
manager of municipal bond trading and under- — a
writing at Dominion Bank in Roanoke. The coy- |
ple lives in Buena Vista. a

 

 

Births |

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE S. KRAMER, ’66, a

daughter, Sarah Kaitlin Morgan, on Aug. 20, -
1989. She joins a sister, Missy, 17, anda brother,
Scott, a graduating senior at Washington and Lee.
The family lives in Memphis, Tenn. a

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE W. DERRICK, "7h
son, William Carlton, on Dec. 31, 1989. Derric’ fe
is president of Derrick Interests Inc. in Houston.

 

a

MR. AND MRS. GREG C. RAETZ, ’71, a son,
William Hiett Bowen, born Nov. 2, 1989, and
adopted Dec. 1, 1989. He joins a sister, Elizabeth —

vee

Megging, 13. The family lives in Lexington. gy

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS H. WATTS, "71,
their third child, Noah Nelson, on July 20, era
The family lives in Virginia Beach.

MR. AND MRS. P. BRYAN CHASNEY, 14, A
son, Peter Bryan Jr., on Dec. 26, 1989. The family
lives in Baltimore.

MR. AND MRS. BRADFORD N. MARTIN, 74,
*77L, a son, Richard Garrett, on Aug. 8, 1989. —
Martin, a partner in the Greenville, S.C., law firm —
of Leatherwood, Walker & Associates, receivec
the 1990 Distinguished Service Award for Out-
standing Community Service in Greenville.

MR. AND MRS. STUART RAGLAND III, "14
a daughter, Ellen Flexer, on March 12, 1990. She —
joins a sister, Elizabeth. The family lives in Comm
lumbia, Md. é

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT C. FLOYD, ’75, a —
daughter, Leslie Elizabeth, on Jan. 4, 1990. She —
joins a brother, Michael, 3. Floyd is a systems con-—
sultant for Unisys in Atlanta. a

MR. AND MRS. JEFFREY L. WILLIS, ’75L,a —
daughter, Meredith Lee, on Aug. 3, 1989. She —
joins a sister and two brothers. Willis is the senior —
litigation partner in the Tucson, Ariz., office of —
Streich, Lang, Weeks & Cardon. 4

DR. AND MRS. WILLIAM G. BROTHERS, ’77, —
a daughter, Jordan Elizabeth, on Sept. 13, 1989. a
She joins a sister, Carrie Anne. Brothers practices —
anesthesiology in Newport News, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ALLEN R. EMMERT III, °77, —
a daughter, Jennifer Sands, on Oct. 6, 1989. Em-
mert is a physical control chemist with Capitol Ce-
ment Corp. in Martinsburg, W.Va. a

ND MRS. JOHN D. GOTTWALD, ’77,

_A
, Charles Houston, on Aug. 11, 1989. Gott-
“at is vice president of Ethyl Corp. in Richmond.
vk. AND MRS. PARKE L. BRADLEY, "78, a
wiughter, Charlotte Olivia, on Aug. 31, 1989. She
joins a sister, Alexandra, 5, and a brother,

Thomas, 2. Bradley is a vice president with the
Bank of New York in London. He is responsible
for marketing international securities services in

the United Kingdom and Middle East.

MR. AND MRS. ROY D. WARBURTON, ’78L,
ason, Michael Austin, on Dec. 31, 1989. He joins
three brothers and two sisters. The family lives in

Pulaski, Va.
MR. AND MRS. ERIC A. NORD, ’79, a son,

Cameron Thomas, on March 21, 1990. The fami-
ly lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID W. PROCTOR, ’81, a
son, Thomas Brooks, on March 1, 1989. The fami-
ly lives in Birmingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. J. THAD ELLIS II, 82, a son,
J. Thad III, on April 6, 1990. The family lives in

Atlanta.

DR. AND MRS. GARY A. JOHNSON, ’82, a
daughter, Jane Eldredge, on Dec. 21, 1989. She
joins two sisters, Samantha and Margaret. In June
Johnson will graduate from residency training in
emergency medicine at Johns Hopkins Universi-
ty and will join the faculty of University Hospital
in Syracuse, N.Y., in the department of critical
care and emergency medicine.

DR. AND MRS. JOHN A. WELLS III, ’82, a
son, John Anderson IV, on Nov. 27, 1989. He
joins a sister, Whaley, 3. Wells is completing a
residency in ophthalmology at Emory University
Affiliated Hospitals. The family lives in Atlanta.

RHONDA S. POLK, ’85L, and 1ST LT.
RONALD T. BEVANS JR.., ’85L, their first child,
Rachel Horton Bevans, on Aug. 3, 1989. The fami-
ly lives in Wiesbaden, West Germany, where
Bevans is a criminal defense attorney with the U.S.
Army. Polk is associated with the Frankfurt law
firm of David Court Associates. She specializes
in criminal and administrative law.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

EVANS DUNN, ’15, an attorney in Birmingham,
Ala., died Dec. 20, 1989. After attending
Washington and Lee, Dunn received a degree from
the University of Alabama School of Law and
served as a first lieutenant in France during World
War |. He retired from the private practice of law
in Birmingham in 1975 as a partner in the firm of
Dunn, Portefield, Scholl & Clark. Dunn was
associate general counsel of the Tennessee Valley
Authority in Knoxville and Chattanooga from
1935 to 1938. From 1955 to 1971 he served as
chancellor of the Episcopal Diocese of Alabama.
Prior to his retirement he was a director of Dunn
Construction Co., Guaranty Savings & Loan
Association, and Hillcrest Hospital Foundation.
He was a member of the American, Alabama, and
Birmingham Bar Associations, Insurance
Counsellors of America, Mountain Brook Club,
the Redstone Club, and St. Mary’s-On-The-
Highlands Episcopal Church.

WERNER ASHTON POWELL, ’22, a retired
Clerk for the Municipal Court in Lynchburg, Va.,

died Oct. 3, 1989. Powell worked for the Lynch-
burg Criminal Court for 40 years and retired in
1970. Prior to his work for the court, he taught
school for four years and worked for First Na-
tional Bank. Powell was treasurer of Memorial
United Methodist Church.

BERT RICHMOND, ’23, a real estate broker
from Fresno, Galif., died March 5, 1990. Rich-
mond attended W&L for one year and transferred
to Harvard University, earning his degree in 1924.
He was also involved in the department store
business and worked for Furchgott’s Inc. of
Jacksonville, Fla.

THOMAS ERWIN SCHNEIDER, ’24L, retired
chairman of the board of Tesco Chemicals Inc.
in Atlanta, died Feb. 12, 1990. Schneider had been
with Tesco since 1941. From 1927 to 1941 he was
a sales manager of the chemical division of Inter-
national Minerals & Chemical Co. He was a board
member of the National Bank of Georgia and the
Atlanta Symphony and was fund chairman of the
Red Cross. He was chairman of the board of the
Atlanta Speech School and the Child Service
Association and was a member of St. Luke’s
Episcopal Church in Atlanta.

DR. HERBERT POLLACK, ’25, physician,
educator, and government consultant, died Jan.
2, 1990. Pollack earned his medical degree from
Cornell University in 1929. He was a fellow in
medicine at the Mayo Clinic from 1932 to 1934,
an instructor in medicine at Cornell from 1934 to
1940, an associate physician for metabolic diseases
at Mount Sinai Hospital from 1942 to 1961, and
a clinical professor of medicine at George
Washington University from 1964 to 1970. Pollack
also served the U.S. government as a consultant
for the secretary of war, the Department of the
Army, a joint NASA-Air Force space medicine ad-
visory group, the Food and Drug Administration,
and the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare. He was a member of the American Socie-
ty for Clinical Investigation and the Aerospace
Medical Association and was a fellow of the
American College of Physicians and the American
Geriatrics Society. Pollack was also an authority
on diabetes and nutrition, and in the 1970s he
helped investigate a microwave bombardment of
the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

ERNEST LOUIS SMITH, ’26, a retired home-
builder and attorney, died Jan. 12, 1990. After
receiving his law degree from Georgetown, Smith
worked in a law practice and then with District
Title Co., owned by his father. After World War
II, Smith and his brother built one of the first low-
cost housing areas with its own shopping center,
Queen’s Chapel Manor in Hyattsville, Md. In the
1930s and 1940s, Smith also managed several
apartment buildings. He was a member of the
board of National Permanent Savings and Loan,
the Washington Board of Trade, and the Colum-
bia Country Club.

JOSEPH EARLE BIRNIE, ’27, retired president
and chairman of the board of National Bank of
Georgia and a former trustee of Washington and
Lee, died Nov. 8, 1989. Birnie began his banking
career as a clerk with Alexander National Bank
in St. Petersburg, Fla. He later served as a clerk
and officer with the Bank of Virginia. In 1940 he
joined the Bank of Georgia and became president
in 1941. He retired in 1971 as chief executive of-
ficer and chairman of the board. He then became
chairman of the bank’s executive committee and

remained a bank director until 1973. He was a
member of the Georgia International Corp.,
Metropolitan Foundation of Atlanta, and
American Bankers Association. From 1945 to 1947
he was national president of the Consumer
Bankers Association.

DR. SAMUEL RUTHERFORD HALL, ’27, a
retired research administrator with the American
Cancer Society, died April 23, 1989. He was liv-
ing in LaJolla, Calif., at the time of his death.

HOWARD FRANKLIN RISSLER, ’27, of
Springfield, Ill., died Dec. 23, 1989. Rissler studied
at W&L for two years and graduated from North-
western University in 1927. He worked for more
than 20 years as a reporter, editorial writer, copy
editor, and makeup editor with newspapers in
Chicago, Philadelphia, and Red Oak, Iowa. In
1948 he joined the Illinois State Historical Library,
where he was the author or editor of numerous
articles, pamphlets, and much of the material that
appeared in the library’s newsletter. He edited the
book Old Illinois Houses by John Drury and
originated the Historical Library’s Student
Historical Day. He and his wife are the authors
of The First Century of the First Congregational
Church of Springfield, Illinois. He served the
church as moderator in 1964 and 1965.

CHARLES ALBERT STRAHORN, ’28, retired
president of the Winnetka Bank, died Nov. 24,
1989. Strahorn was employed with the Illinois
commercial bank and trust company from 1940
to 1970. After his graduation from W&L, he
joined Riggs National Bank in Washington, D.C.
Four years later, he worked briefly for Annapolis
Dairy Products Co. before becoming a bank ex-
aminer with the Federal Reserve System in 1932.
From 1938 to 1940 he was assistant bank examiner
for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in
Chicago. He was active in the Illinois Bankers
Association and was president of the Chicago
District of the IBA and a member of the Chamber
of Commerce.

BERNARD JOSEPH WAGNER, ’28L, retired
president of the Unit Wall Realty Co. in Miami
Beach, Fla., died Sept. 26, 1989. Following
graduation, Wagner practiced law in Bluefield,
W.Va., until 1936. He then served as assistant to
the president of Mercantile National Bank in
Miami Beach. He worked as vice president of
Hadleys Inc., a furniture retailer, before joining
Unit Wall Realty in 1950. He was a member of
the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Miami from
1936 to 1945, treasurer of the Greater Miami
Manufacturing Association from 1940 to 1944,
and president of the Papanicolau Cancer Research
Institute in Miami from 1958 to 1960.

HUGH DAVID EBERT, ’29, retired manager of
Mid-State Electric Co. in Lynchburg, Va., died
Dec. 8, 1989. Ebert had also been employed as an
assistant manager for J.W. Wood Wholesale
Grocery in Lynchburg and with Pittsburgh Plate
Glass Co. He was a member of the Kiwanis Club
and St. John’s Episcopal Church. He was a past
president of W&L’s Lynchburg alumni chapter.

DR. STANLEY FORREST HAMPTON, ’30,
who is thought to be the first physician in the coun-
try to receive certification as an allergy specialist,
died Aug. 24, 1989. Hampton earned his medical
degree in 1934 from Washington University and
completed an internship and residency in internal
medicine at the University of Iowa. In 1940 he

W&L. 53

entered private practice and became a member of
the part-time faculty of Washington University’s
School of Medicine. In 1942 he went on active duty
with the 21st General Hospital. He was appointed
director of the School of Medicine in 1953 and
codirector in 1962. In addition to his duties at
Washington University, he served on the staffs of
Barnes, Deaconess, St. Luke’s, and Missouri Bap-
tist hospitals in Missouri. He retired from private
practice in 1982. Hampton was a founding trustee
of the Allergy Foundation of America and served
as a diplomat of the American Board of Internal
Medicine and the American Board of Allergy and
Immunology. He was also a fellow, past president,
past treasurer, and executive committee member
of the American Academy of Allergy. Hampton
was the recipient in 1975 of the academy’s
Distinguished Award.

ROBERT CAMPBELL GILMORE JR., ’32, a
retired broker with Bankers Life Co. in Rockville,
Md., died Sept. 19, 1989. He had been associated
with the firm since 1935. He was past chairman
of the board of the Washington Presbyterian
Home and the Crippled Children’s Society of
Montgomery County, Md. He was also a member
of Banker Life’s Hall of Fame.

JAMES SURGET SHIELDS, ’32L, a retired
Memphis, Tenn., attorney, died Dec. 5, 1989.
Shields practiced law in Memphis for 52 years and
retired in 1984. He was a member of St. John’s
Episcopal Church in Memphis.

JACK MARINARI, ’33L, former chief judge of
the 8th Judicial Circuit in West Virginia, died Dec.
17, 1989. Marinari, who spent most of his life in
Welch and War, W.Va., began his law career in
private practice. He was assistant prosecuting at-
torney of McDowell County, W.Va., from 1941
to 1943 and was the county’s acting prosecuting
attorney from 1943 to 1944. He was living in Lex-
ington, S.C., at the time of his death.

MARK EDWARD SLAYTON, ’33, owner of
Slayton Insurance and Real Estate in Ennis, Texas,
died Feb. 9, 1990. Slayton served with the 3rd
Army in the European Theater during World War
Il. He was discharged in 1945 and returned to En-
nis, where he worked as a cotton buyer. Several
years later he began Slayton Insurance and re-
mained with the company until his retirement in
1981. He was a member of the First Christian
Church and the Veterans of Foreign Wars and was
a charter member of the Optimist Club.

WILLIAM ARMSTEAD GARRETT, ’35, retired
president of Southern Finance Corp. in Augusta,
Ga., died March 31, 1989. Garrett joined Southern
Finance in 1935 and was named president in 1956.
He stayed with the company until it merged with
First Railroad and Banking Co. in 1972. He con-
tinued to serve on the bank’s board of directors
after its merger with First Union Corp. He was
vice president of the Augusta Board of Realtors,
a trustee of Augusta Free School, and a member
of the Augusta-Richmond County Tax Assessor’s
Board. He was chairman of the Augusta
Redevelopment Authority, president of Real Estate
Development Co., and appraiser for the Augusta
Federal Savings and Loan Association. He was a
member of the Church of the Good Shepherd.

DONALD REITER WALLIS, ’35, publisher of
The Madison Courier and Vevay Newspapers Inc.
in Madison, Ind., died Dec. 27, 1989. Wallis had
been associated with the Courier for 37 years, hav-

54. W&L

ing been named its business manager in 1952. He
became the paper’s publisher in 1962 and was
named publisher and owner of Vevay Newspapers
Inc. in 1959. He was chairman of the United Fund,
president of the Madison Regatta, and a member
of the Southern Indiana Inc. development group.
He also served as a director of the Salvation Ar-
my for 27 years, was a director of the Madison
Area Chamber of Commerce, and was a past
trustee of Madison Presbyterian Church. He was
a former director of the Hoosier State Press
Association and a former member of the American
Newspaper Publishers Association.

TYREE FRANCIS WILSON, ’36, former presi-
dent of Lexington Dodge Inc. in Lexington, Ky.,
died Jan. 1, 1990. Following his graduation from
W&L, Wilson worked for the Kentucky Utilities
Co. as a power transmission and distribution
engineer. In 1939 he began active duty with the
U.S. Naval Air Corps and was discharged in 1945
with the rank of lieutenant commander. While liv-
ing in Lexington, Ky., Wilson was owner and
operator of Lexington Dodge Inc. He was a
member of the Masonic Order, Civil War Round
Table, and the Kiwanis Club. He also served on
the finance committee of the Community Chest
and Fayette County Children’s Bureau. After his
retirement he moved to St. Petersburg, Fla., where
he served on the advisory council of the Salvation
Army for 10 years.

EMERY COX JR., ’37, ’41L, an attorney living
in Tipton, Iowa, died Oct. 11, 1989. Following his
graduation from W&L’s School of Law, Cox went
into private practice for one year. From 1942 to
1946 he served in the U.S. Navy and then worked
as an attorney in the Department of Justice. In
1955 he moved to Minneapolis and became special
assistant attorney general for Minnesota, a posi-
tion he held until 1960. He then joined the law of-
fices of Neville, Johnson & Thompson in
Minneapolis.

JAMES ROBERT PARKEY JR., ’38, a former
partner and general manager of J.R. Parkey & Son
in Wichita Falls, Texas, died Feb. 11, 1990.

ELVIN DOMINIC (BUD) PALERMO, ’40, ’42L,
who worked as a commercial real estate developer
in New Jersey for 44 years, died Feb. 24, 1990.
He was also president of N.M. Palermo Inc., a
business founded by his father. He was a member
of the National, New Jersey State, and Eastern
Union County Boards of Realtors and was the
chairman of the Union County and Linden
Republican Committees and the Union County
chapter of the American Cancer Society.

BEVERLEY WILLS LEE JR., ’42, a retired
manager accountant for Coopers and Lybrand in
Hampton, Va., died July 8, 1989. Lee, who
graduated from Washington and Lee in 1947
following service in World War II, began his ac-
counting career as an internal auditor with
American Viscose Corp. in Front Royal, Va. From
1951 to 1955 he was a staff accountant with the
J.A. Daniels certified public accounting firm in
Newport News. He then became a systems accoun-
tant at Langley Air Force Base, Va. From 1957
to 1963 he worked with the U.S. General Account-
ing Office in Norfolk, Va. In 1963 he joined
Daniels, Turnbull & Freeman, which merged with
Coopers and Lybrand in the early 1970s. He retired
in 1980. Lee was also an adjunct faculty member
at Christopher Newport College for 17 years. He
was a member of the American Institute of Cer-

tified Public Accountants and the Virginia Socie-
ty of Certified Public Accountants.

RICHARD THORNE SLOAN, ’42, former presi-
dent of Shengas Corp., died March 14, 1990,

Following graduation, Sloan served in the infan- 3

try in the Battle of Normandy during World War
II and received the Bronze Star for Bravery. In
addition to serving as president of Shengas Corp.
(now AmeriGas), he also served as president and
director of Virginia Propane Gas Association. He
was a member of the Elks and a former member
of the Harrisonburg Lions Club.

ROBERT BROWN MYERS, ’43, professor
emeritus of education at the University of Florida,
died Nov. 11, 1989. Myers spent two years at W&L
before receiving his bachelor’s degree from the
University of Kentucky in 1943. During World
War II he served in the U.S. Navy and participated
in the invasion of Normandy. In 1948 he received
his master’s degree from the University of Ken-
tucky and he taught there until 1951, when he
moved to Gainesville. He received his doctorate
degree in education from the University of Florida
in 1954 and became head of the secondary educa-
tion department. He served as director of the P.K.
Yonge Laboratory School until 1960. He then _
moved to Riverside, Calif., where he was the assis- _

tant superintendent of public schools in the Alvord _
Unified School District. In 1963, Myers left
California and returned to the University of
Florida, where he was chairman of the department _
of general teacher education until his retirement
in 1984.

JOHNSON MCREE JR., ’48, died Jan. 30, 1990,
McRee had been president of Johnson McRee Jr. —
Certified Public Accountants in Manassas, Va., _
for the past 20 years. From 1948 to 1951 he was
an accountant with Andrews, Burkett & Co. in —
Richmond. He then became a senior accountant

with the city auditor’s office in Richmond before _

being named a junior partner with Baker, Brydon,

Rennolds & Whitt in Richmond. From 1961 to

1963 he was comptroller and treasurer with

Georator Corp. He later joined the firm of a

Brydon, McRee & Smith. McRee was also known
as *‘Fat Cat’’ and was a recognized jazz authori-
ty. He was a founding partner and director of the
Hayloft Dinner Theatre in Manassas and had been
the producer of the Manassas Jazz Festival since
1966. He was the host of a weekly jazz show on
WPRW radio in Manassas in the 1960s. In addi-
tion, he was an original partner of Blues Alley,
a Washington, D.C., jazz club, and was founding
director of the Potomac River Jazz Club. He had
been the treasurer and a vestryman at Trinity
Episcopal Church.

DR. EVERETTE LESTER TAYLOR JR., ’49, a
retired physician from Sparta, N.C., died Sept. 19,
1990. Taylor received his medical degree from
Duke University and began a general practice in
1957 in Mount Gilead, N.C. In the 1970s he left
his private practice to join Moore Memorial
Hospital as an emergency room physician. He later
practiced at Cleveland Memorial Hospital in
Shelby, N.C.

JON DEVON ALLEN, ’68, an investment officer
in Washington, D.C., died Jan. 6, 1990. Allen
received degrees from the University of Virginia
and Emory University as well as W&L. He served
in the U.S. Army, was an instructor of account-
ing and finance at the University of Houston at
Clear Lake City, and most recently was a finan-

 

with Overseas Private Investment. He

jal analyst
cial ana” hurch, Va., at the time of his death.

lived in Falls ‘

MUNFORD ELLIOTT, ’68, died

Ss 10, 1990, following an automobile accident.
Elliott was employed by Hurt & Proffitt Con-

iting Engineers & Surveyors in Lynchburg, Va.
“9 had ‘aught at Hargrave Military Academy in
ae orem, Va.. and Virginia Episcopal School in

Lynchburg.

-MERY IRVIN COTTIER, ’72, former

MONTO* vo Sere? Cane
' owner of Eliot’s Interiors in Midland,

reporte! ana .

a died Jan. 31, 1990. Cottier attended
Washington and Lee from 1968 to 1972 and re-
ceived his bachelor’s degree in government in 1976

from the University of Texas of the Permian Basin
in Odessa. He earned a master of arts degree in
from the University of Texas at Austin

journalism

in 1989. He worked as a reporter for newspapers
‘n Midland, Irving, Flatonia, and Belton, Texas,
as state editor of the San Angelo Standard-Times

in San Angelo, Texas, and as editorial page editor
and later state capital bureau chief for the Tex-
arkana Gazette in Texarkana, Texas. He also con-
tributed articles to the Texas Observer magazine
and had a weekly column in the San Angelo and
Texarkana papers. At the time of his death he was
owner and operator of two family businesses,
Fliot’s Interiors in Midland and Cottier’s Antiques
in Austin, Texas. He was a member of St. George’s
Episcopal Church in Austin.

BRUCE NEIL GORDIN, ’74, an attorney with
Gordin & Cimino in Philadelphia, died March 17,
1990. Prior to the formation of Gordon & Cimino,
Gordin lived and worked in Florida, where he
started a financial planning consulting business
primarily servicing real estate developers. He had
also been an associate with the Pensacola, Fla.,
law firm of Levin, Warfield, Middlebrooks,
Mabie, Rosenbloum & Magie.

THE REV. BRYAN EMORY MCNEILL, ’74, a
Jesuit priest in New Orleans, died Feb. 9, 1990.
He attended Notre Dame Seminary in New Orleans
from 1974 to 1976 and entered the Jesuit Novitiate
in Grand Coteau in August 1977. McNeill also
studied at Loyola University in New Orleans and
received a master’s degree in social work from St.
Louis University. During 1982 he worked as an
organizer for A.C.O.R.N. in New Orleans and
then spent more than two years at St. Joseph’s
Church in Houston as social justice coordinator.
In 1987 he completed his master of divinity degree
at Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley, Calif.

DR. MICHAEL DAMIEN PEPPLER, ’74, a
psychiatrist from Norfolk, Va., died Jan. 9, 1990.
Peppler had been an associate medical director at
the Tidewater Psychiatric Institute of Norfolk. He
received his medical degree in 1978 from the
University of Miami in Florida and completed his
medical internship and his residency in psychiatry
at the Naval Regional Medical Center in Ports-
mouth, Va. He joined Psychiatric Associates of
Tidewater in 1984 and was a founding member of
Norfolk Psychiatric Associates in 1988. He was
a member of the medical staff at several Norfolk
hospitals, including Tidewater Psychiatric In-
stitute, Norfolk Psychiatric Center, Sentara Nor-
folk General Hospital, and Sentara Leigh
Hospital He was also a member of the Medical
Society of Virginia. Peppler was a volunteer of the
Tidewater AIDS Crisis Taskforce, where in 1985
he started the first support group for people with
HIV and AIDS.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birth-
days, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
sila. @e lee ame Le LLL PU pa Ce MeO timme-tilemerestcet

RLU olan oltelh ae ieotailmmeitlee. Rocker are also available in
natural dark pine stain, with

crest in five colors, at the same
BOSTON ROCKER price as the black arm chair and
Maan ea ele Co

$170 - Not including freight charges

UCT Ye mate
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges will
be billed after delivery. Estimates for those charges are available upon request. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

I wonder if we will ever hear the full and ex-
act story of the resignation of Bill McHenry as
athletic director? There was very little released to
the newspapers, but rumors are abroad concern-
ing the incident.

Certain questions arise. Did Bill resign volun-
tarily or was he forced to resign, and why? Did
his resignation have anything to do with the release
of Dennis Daly as men’s lacrosse coach? How
much influence did President Wilson have in this
situation? Exactly what were President Wilson’s
thoughts and actions before and after the resigna-
tion occurred? Are we operating a Division III
sports complex with a president who still thinks
in terms of Division I?

This is in no way a criticism of the new athletic
director, but I think President Wilson owes the
alumni a full and exact explanation, including his
thoughts and actions of what transpired and led
to this change. What he did not say in W&L
(September 1989) in point of fact said a lot. If the
school loses Bill McHenry completely, we will have
lost a very capable and competent man and will
be the worse for it, and this prospect saddens me.

I look forward to a full public explanation
from President Wilson. I wonder if we will get it?

Dr. WILLiAM C. WILLIAMs, ’54
Richmond, Va.

EDITOR:

I really enjoy reading W&L, especially when
I’m overseas and otherwise cut off from informa-
tion about what’s going on at Washington and
Lee. (My family sends me every issue.) Congratula-
tions on a job well done.

Davip F. Connor, ’85
Stuttgart, West Germany

EDITOR:

A classmate who keeps in much closer touch
with the University than I do told me recently that
“‘they don’t sing ‘College Friendships’ anymore.”’

If so, it’s a shame. ‘‘Say it ain’t so, Joe.”’

E. E. (GENE) HUNTER Jr., ’41
West Jefferson, N.C.

“College Friendships’’ is sung at the annual reu-
nion assembly and at Senior Night in the spring,
when members of the graduating class are
recognized, —Ed.

EDITOR:

The April 14 Washington Post quoted Dean
of Admissions William Hartog: ‘‘But for those of
us who were criticized when coeducation hap-
pened, the success is very satisfying. . . .The
alumni raised hell about it and then next year they
sent their daughters.’’ Dean Hartog’s satisfaction
is indicative of misunderstandings, one but not the
least of which suggests that we alumni are either
shallow or hypocritical.

Most of us objected to coeducation from a
reasonable fear that the fundamental culture of

56 W&L

 

Letters to the Editor

 

Washington and Lee would change. And indeed
it has changed.

In four short years, the University has become
an institution to which most alumni today would
be denied admission. With only one in three ap-
plicants accepted, the 1989 freshman class had
stellar high school statistics: 32 National Merit
finalists, 100 varsity team captains, and 61 class
presidents. A majority ranked in the top 10th
academically at their respective schools. And only
18 percent Virginians no less! Very impressive.

But that is not really what the alumni wanted.
Most of us hoped to preserve a different
Washington and Lee, the one we had remembered
from the halcyon days of our youth. Washington
and Lee was the genesis of the Gentleman’s C: One
should always strive for self-fulfillment, but stop
slightly short of embarrassing others less gifted.
Flaunt sans flout—how exquisitely Virginian!

Obviously the Gentleman’s C was only a joke,
but its abstract philosophical appeal did reflect a
Southern gentility where students were not claw-
ing each other’s eyeballs for grades. Let’s leave
the admission of two-dimensional high school
transcripts to factory universities. And perhaps the
faculty could take more pleasure in adding facets
to diamonds in the rough than in celebrating the
accomplished successes of previous stone cutters.

In many ways like the Virginia Military In-
stitute, Washington and Lee once produced an
inner-goal oriented individual with supreme self-
confidence. I recall a fraternity brother flown
home junior year to explain four F’s and a D.
Calmly, coolly, collectedly, he squared off in front
of his father and said, ‘‘Well Dad, I guess I spent
too much time on one subject.’’ He later insisted
that eye contact was crucial in these situations.
(The whole thing somehow came up during ad-
vanced discourse in one of Dr. Futch’s Bedroom
Histories of Europe.) Tangentially—does
Washington and Lee even require a face-to-face
for admission anymore?

Everyday I descend the bowels of Manhattan
to scrap for a buck on Wall Street. During the sum-
mer when the electric sewers stink and my clothes
stick to me like wallpaper paste, I remember Lex-
ington, not my grade-point average, but a plea-
sant atmosphere that nourished the soul.

If I had a daughter, or son, who was keenly
competitive at an early age, I would be delighted
if either should go to a Duked washington and lee
(lower case intended). But if the youngster were
less competitive, more introspective, still an
unknown quantity to the rest of the world, there
will be one less place to elicit light from under his
bushel.

Rather than an indication of the success of
coeducation, all the impressive statistics of incom-
ing freshmen simply underscore that Washington
and Lee now addresses the needs of a different in-
dividual. I am not making an argument for
mediocrity as these new Washington and Lee
alumni(ae) will not necessarily make a greater con-
tribution to society than their predecessors, namely
a Tom Wolfe or a Supreme Court Justice Lewis
Powell.

Accordingly, I feel neither hypocritical nor
shallow in regretting our faculty and board’s easy
solution to what they perceived as two problems:
a declining applicant pool and the typical student
profile. With coeducation, voila, job security for
all!

    
      
  
    
  
  
    
    
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
  

ms
‘ia
*

Idiots dislike people because of their sex
there is nothing idiotic in disliking a unive
system that could produce highly trained andre
which, to our cultural detriment, somehow rob y,
of wisdom and humanity.

In sum, lighten up. Accept women. But pleace _
Washington and Lee, aggressively seek thoce
young people capable of appreciating the fj ner
aspects of life, particularly those celebrated oa }
banks of the river in Goshen.

PETER Cimino, * }

Cos Cob, Conn.

Dean Hartog’s statement as it appeared ae he
Washington Post was, “‘. . .[The alumni] raised
hell about it and then the next year they all s !
their daughters here and thought it was great,”*
And while individual interviews are not requi ired
for admission to the University, they are strongly
encouraged, —Ed.

x. Bat |

fl a.

EDITOR: i
A moving 50th reunion: the quiet, genteel.
dignified ambience of our campus and staff; t
prominent classmates; the singing in the Glee Ch
front row in Lee Chapel with son HDJ III,
and grandson HDJ IV, ’07—three pee
Homers! And still dating my Sweet Briar Fan
Dress date!
What else is there?
Homer D. Jones Jr., "4
Princeton, N “4

wa
>
.

is

o>

Tp
as

a.
-

EDITOR: a

I especially enjoyed your April publication ar
the nice [recognition] of Lewis Powell. a

In 1925 I entered Washington and Lee as a
freshman. After I got off the bus I saw
strangers. I picked out the tallest and said to him,
‘What is next?’’ He said, ‘Go to the Receivary.””
There was a man by the name of Mattingly. I told
him I would like to enter Washington and Lee. —
He said, ‘‘Cash or check?’’ I said, ‘‘Fifty dollars —
is all I have in cash, but I can pay you each mon
by getting a job.”’ He said, ‘‘As long as you a
a lone Yankee, I will let you in—provided you
remember who won the War. Never bring up the
subject.”’ e

-[ soon made many friends. . . .One day rs
met Lewis, and he said, ‘‘Why not go out for —
freshman track?’’ I did pretty well in the hurdles. —
Then I met Coach Forrest [Fletcher], who was the —
best friend I ever had. He told me, ‘‘Next year, —
I will make a hurdler out of you.”” He was a former —
Olympic athlete.

On the track I got to know Lewis, and he |
helped me in so many ways. .It was quite an ;
honor to be with him and the team. During Final _ |
Dress Ball he introduced me to his girlfriend. We
had a ee together. What a thrill! 4

-I wish you the best of everything.

ARTHUR D. SIMMONS, '29 ;
Lake Placid, N.Y. ;

   

CLASS OF 1941

Kerwin Adams
Arthur Armstrong
Ralph Bird

Alex Hancock
ames Hernandez
Willard Keland
Roger Levering
Murrell Mathews
William Murray
Orman Powell

Robert Rice
Donald Stein
Walter Thomas

Gordon von Kalinowski

Charles Wagg
Howard Wormser

CLASS OF 1941L

Peter Barrow

CLASS OF 1946

Alan Bauer
Stephen Cooley
William Cooper
Roland Cote
James Earle
Thomas Houston
Thomas Leatherwood
Ramon Luina
Robert Lynn
Charles Powell
Daniel Reason
John Steitz
James Thompson
Robert Vroom
Albert Woodruff

CLASS OF 1951

David Arentz
Robert Connaughton
William Cosgrove
Jack Crawford
Charles Forbes
James Frizzell
Raymond Henry
John Herring
Gerold Holen
Bruce Huntwork
Walter Kunau
Edmund Pendleton
Joe Sconce

Leland Sebring
Johnson Slaughter
James Snyder
William Swain
Wallace Thacker
Robert Voelker

William Walton
Earl Watts

CLASS OF 1951L

William Adams
Robert Evans
William O’ Neil

Verling Votaw
Robert Walters
Richard Wells

CLASS OF 1961L

Lyman Harrell
Thomas Kroetz

Attention
ALUMNI

CLASS OF 1956

Herman Baker
John Bird
Charles Dawson
Robert Delligatti
Peter Erlinghagen
Joel Fields
William Greene
Owen Harned
Henry Heymann
Charles Leidy
Donald McArthur
Carl McCoy
Philip Monger
Dan Moore
John Myers
Orville Paynter
John Pipkin
William Roush
Robert Schultz
Henry Smith
Raymond Stults
Joel Walker
Gary Whitfield

CLASS OF 1956L
Harry Fisher

CLASS OF 1961

Anthony Brennan
Jon Burger
Henry Burr
Laighton Chapman
David Chenault
David Deuel
Albert Folcher
David Gibson
John Gray
Clemens Gunn
Alfred Harrison
Victor Lasseter
Elwin Law
Richard Mahoney
Frank Mower
John Muendel
Robert Rehmet
William Snyder
George Sutherlin

Phillip Leventhal
John O’Brien
CLASS OF 1966

Kent Andrews
Jan-Erik Berg

Do
You

Know

Anyone
Listed

Here

David Bowles
Carson Carlisle
Francis Covucci
Jerome Croston
John Curran
Thomas Fauntleroy
John Freeman
Daniel Garrett
William Hampson
Hayden Head
Murray Jacobson
Richard Kearns
Michael Lewis
Daniel Lindsey
Philip Manor
David Marchese
David Miller

 

Thomas Greenwood
Michael Hasty
Stephen Haughney
David Hill

Thomas Hilton
James Hunt

James Murray
Richard Prezzano
James Redington
Joseph Rosenbloom
Nicholas Ruffin
Hugo Rutherford

Robert Urie Charles Hunter
Howard Ware Douglas Keats
Jack Wood Michael Kirshbaum

Kim Kyle
CLASS OF 1966L John Lamkin
Donald O’ Sullivan Danny Lewis

John Streetman Gordon Macrae
Mark McKinney
Chester Mehurin

Frank Morrill

CLASS OF 1971

Lawrence Barber

Robert Baroody John Ossi

Patrick Barry William Peek
John Bealke John Rodemeir
Padric Behan Andrew Schneider
Peter Berg Walter Simmons

Michael Berry
John Boardman
John Botcheller

William Strain
James Townsend
William Turner

Rowland Burns E. Vickers
Matthew Cliett Robert Weed
William Cooper Fred Williams
Douglas Deaton Gerald Wood
Cyrus Dillon R. Wright

Thomas Douthit
Steven Gates
Jeffrey Gingold
William Graham

CLASS OF 1971L

David Baird
Craig Nielsen

The individuals whose
names appear on this
page are listed as
‘funlocated”’ in
W&L’s alumni rec-
® ords. If you havea
current address for any
of these alumni, please
do us—and them—a
favor and send word to
the Alumni Office,
Washington and Lee
University, Lexington,
VA 24450. Thank you.

 

  

ITU Trea ON A
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Non-Profit Orta
cms MONE Ttd
PAID
sultan oe PAT
Cincinnati, OH

