ed

 

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

May/June 1987

YAO Seva r Hier
VWASHINGTOS @ LSS SNAYRAGT
LEXINGTON: Waa B240G

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

a
*

mas
n

 

 
   

 

 

 

New Center

W  asnington and Lee has begun an ef-
fort to build a comprehensive center for the
performing arts on its campus. Construc-
tion on the $9 million facility will begin in
the spring of 1988, if sufficient funding is
secured by that time. Completion is
scheduled for 1990. To date, $4 million has
been contributed for the center by alumni,
foundations, and corporations.

‘‘The new center for the performing
arts speaks to the educational needs of all
students and faculty,’’ said W&L President @
John D. Wilson, in announcing the project. :
‘‘Music, drama, and dance play significant
roles already in the University’s educational
program and in its service to the wider
Lexington-Rockbridge community. The
new center will simply improve and expand
our offering.”’

The need for a comprehensive facility
to house the performing arts at Washington
and Lee is well-documented. For more than
50 years, the program has been housed in
a mid-19th century structure—the
Troubadour Theatre on Henry Street—that
is beyond renovation or expansion.

As early as 1964, the Trustees, administration, and faculty
recognized the need for a center for the performing arts. Yet,
it was only after renovation of practically every building on cam-
pus and the construction of a new undergraduate library, law
school building, gymnasium, and residence hall that attention
could be turned to the need for a theatre.

The center will be located diagonally across Nelson Street from
Gaines Hall, the new student residence that will open this fall.
It will be adjacent to the old Lexington train station, which will
be associated with the theatre plans.

The design motif achieved by Gaines Hall will be carried
across the Nelson Street intersection to the center for the perform-
ing arts in the form of a gatehouse tower. In tandem with Gaines,
the center for the performing arts will create an impressive en-
trance to Washington and Lee on the western side of Lexington.

The center’s gatehouse tower will be located astride the old
railroad embankment between the former station and the trestle
across Nelson Street. The trestle will become a brick-covered foot-
bridge to the campus. Visitors will have access to the upper and
lower levels of the building through the gatehouse, whose stair-
case will lead to the main lobby.

The main theatre in the center will seat 425 in comfort, and
the rise is designed to ensure that every member of the audience
has an unobstructed view of the stage. There will be a proscenium
stage 41 feet wide that can be narrowed to 32 feet by movable
portals. A valance behind the 24-foot arch will change the height
of the stage opening, thus allowing a variation in staging from
very small to multi-level sets. The stage will be able to accom-
modate dramatic and dance performance of national scope.

A highly adaptable stage floor will include a hydraulic-
powered orchestra lift that can be extended for a thrust effect.
The shock-absorbing stage floor is specially designed for dance.

An orchestra shell of honeycomb aluminum will transform

 

for the Performing Arts Planned

Artist’s rendering of the new center for the performing arts, as seen from Gaines Residence Hall

the stage into a mode suitable for choral, band, or chamber music
presentations. The orchestra pit will be able to house an ensem-
ble equal to a Broadway musical or a small opera, while the stage
itself will hold a 92-piece orchestra and large choral groups.

A separate experimental theatre—a black box with overhead
lighting and ringed on three sides by a corridor providing actors’
access from every corner—will offer a wide variety of audience-
stage relationships.

The lighting system in the main theatre will be computerized
but with manual capabilities so that students can learn both
methods. Directly behind the stage proper will be a set prepara-
tion area not common to most theatres. An adjoining scene shop
will serve both the main and experimental theatres. A large open
space under the scene shop may be used for prop, scene, and
costume storage.

The ample dressing rooms will offer quick access to either
side of both stages. All the back-of-the-house facilities will do
double duty: the Greenroom will function as an actors’ waiting
room for both stages and can be used as a reception space follow-
ing performances or for reading plays or small seminars.

The main lobby will serve as an art gallery in addition to pro-
viding space for receptions and displaying portions of the Univer-
sity’s art collection. Faculty offices will open onto a balcony
overlooking the lobby.

‘The new center will be an academic facility with a community
complexion,’’ noted Farris P. Hotchkiss, vice president for
University relations. ‘‘It has the potential of serving and involv-
ing more of the community than any other facility in Lexington.”’

Yet, the facility will be of major benefit to the University’s
academic programs. ‘‘The center will be a place where art, music,
and drama can take their rightful places next to math, history,
literature, and philosophy,’’ said Albert C. Gordon, chairman
of the department of fine arts.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 62, Number 3, June 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHaAw, Assistant Editor
ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
Patrick HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, IIl.

JOHN W. Fo.som, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, ’62, Treasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR Jr., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFourR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, °44
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarD Capito, 68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., 69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. DAwson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J. |

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

Joun D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

RoBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

Wayn_E D. McGrew Jr., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

Pau. J. B. MurpuHy, ’49
McLean, Va.

Tuomas P. O’BRIEN Jr., 758, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

 

 

Dabney Stuart wins Guggenheim. Details on page 21.

 

 

 

Z University Scholars

 

7 A Pulitzer

 

10 Rhetorical Questions

 

14 #Constitutional Convention

 

17. Digging for History

 

21 W&L Gazette

 

28 The Bookshelf

 

29 Alumni News

 

31 Class Notes

 

39 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Dogwoods in bloom signal spring on the Front Cam-
pus in this photograph by William Strode, whose artistry fills the
volume of photographs, Washington and Lee University, available
from the Bookstore.

They are psychologists and mathematicians, economists and an-
thropologists, English majors and art majors.

They write for the Ring-tum Phi, sing in the University Chorus,
and spin records on WLUR.

They are members of the College Republicans and the College
Democrats, the Student Recruitment Committee, the debate team,
and the film society.

They are varsity athletes, fraternity members, and dormitory
counselors.

In short, they represent a rather typical cross section of the
Washington and Lee student body.

There is one difference, though. They are all participants in
the University Scholars program.

As University Scholars, they enroll in interdisciplinary honors
seminars with topics like ‘‘early modernism”’ and ‘‘the evolution
of evolution.’’ Many choose to delve more deeply into the subject
matter by taking some courses as tutorials, working one-on-one
with University professors. When they are seniors, they spend much
of the year preparing a thesis in their major department.

The University Scholars are, to be sure, characterized by diver-

& oy ee a
sity. They have quite different interests, talents, and abilities. But
hive ( SI they share at least one thing in common. Each one of them
possesses what the program’s directors term ‘‘aggressive intellec-

tual curiosity.”’

J une 4, 1987. Washington and Lee’s undergraduate commence-

C QO a r fy ment will be a landmark occasion. For the first time in its 238-year

history, the University will award bachelor’s degrees to women.

But the Class of 1987 is distinguished, as well, by the presence of

the first members of the University Scholars program to receive
their degrees.

: 7 n t el [ CC ft ua [ C u a OS i] ty n No one appreciates the significance of this particular commence-

ment more than H. Thomas Williams, professor of physics and

C: h ar act er 1 ZeS Part ICl [pa n t AY associate dean of the College. From his place on the graduation

platform, Williams will look on with special pride at what has been
[ n Wk L "5 Hi Onors P ro g ram accomplished in the six years since he and three colleagues attend-
ed a conference sponsored by the Lilly Foundation in Colorado
Springs. It was there, in the Rocky Mountains, that the idea for
a University honors program germinated.

‘‘Our purpose at the conference was to bring with us specific
problems that we saw at the University,’’ recalls Williams, ‘‘and
then we went to different seminars to discuss these problems and
ways to solve them.”’

One of the dilemmas the group addressed in Colorado concern-
ed Washington and Lee’s brightest and ablest students, those who
were most motivated and most interested in learning both inside
and outside of the classroom. How could the University attract
more students like these? And, once they were on the campus, what
could be done to keep them?

‘‘One buzzword that we continually came back to was ‘critical
mass,’ ’’ Williams explains ‘‘Critical mass is a term we use in
physics to describe the amount of radioactive material necessary
to sustain a nuclear reaction. I think it can also describe what we
wanted to achieve with an honors program.

‘‘We realized that many of our best students might be major-
ing in different departments and wouldn’t necessarily know each
other. We needed an organization to bring them together, to spon-
sor academic and social events that would involve something more
than kegs and decibels.”’

The team returned from Colorado full of ideas. It drafted a
proposal that was approved by the faculty. The University Scholars
program was born, and Tom Williams was named its first director.

 

 

 

By Anne Coulling

 

2 W&L

 

 

Si

Philosophy professor Harrison J. Pemberton teaches an honors seminar during the spring term.

‘*We decided early on that we wanted these students to be part
of the mainstream,’’ Williams explains. ‘‘At some institutions, the
honors students are isolated and kept to themselves. But this is
a small campus with a small student body. If you isolate your
honors students, they can’t serve as a model to the other students.
And that’s part of the idea.”’

Consequently the University Scholars academic program was
designed to be what Williams calls ‘‘modest.’’ Each student would
be required to take three honors seminars in the humanities, natural
sciences, and social sciences, and to complete a senior honors thesis.
In addition, participants would have the option of taking one course
each semester on a tutorial basis.

Initially, much discussion focused on the amount of financial
aid that would be awarded the participants. ‘‘We didn’t want to
seem to be buying them,’’ says Williams. ‘‘On the other hand, it’s
important to have some form of recognition besides just that title
‘University Scholar.’ We thought it could make a real difference
in recruiting if we could offer even a token amount.’’ That amount
was set at $1,000, awarded to students who do not receive any other
form of merit-based financial aid.

In the summer of 1984 the first eight University Scholars were
selected for the class that would enroll that September. After the
fall semester several more freshmen were added to the group, along

with two sophomores. Those sophomores—Chris Carter of
Chickasha, Okla., and Erik Curren of Chicago—will become the
program’s first graduates in June.

Today the University Scholars are 42 strong, with five to eight
freshmen due to join them in the fall and another six or so to be
chosen later in the year.

The University Scholars program is off to a strong start.

L, is the last day of class in an honors seminar on the history of
Latin America between 1450 and 1550. David Parker, assistant pro-
fessor of history, is grilling the nine students, all of them Univer-
sity Scholars.

The final assignment had been 75 pages of a survey textbook
on Latin American history. After reading the book, almost all the
students have made it plain to Parker that they disliked it. Now
he wants to know why.

The ensuing discussion is spirited and lively. A couple of class
members wish the authors had talked less about the Spanish and
more about the native Indians. But someone else argues that
knowledge of the Spanish is absolutely crucial for an understand-
ing of the region as a whole.

One student says he is an anthropologist and wants ‘‘humanity”’
in the textbook. ‘‘I’m not so interested in political systems,’’

W&L

 

3

 

he says. ‘‘I want to know about their daily lives, how they brush-
ed their teeth.’’

Round and round goes the debate. In a survey text that covers
the entire history of Latin America, is it really possible to include
the minutiae of the people’s daily lives? What should the authors
have done differently?

‘The basic problem,’’ one student finally concludes, ‘‘is that

The interdisciplinary nature of these honors seminars is their
primary distinguishing characteristic. Although the courses must
fall into the general categories of social science, natural science,
or the humanities in order to fulfill general education requirements,
they usually do transcend disciplinary boundaries.

For instance, ‘‘The Evolution of Evolution’’ was taught last
year by Peter Bergstrom of the biology department and W. Lad

 

we’ve never before gone far enough
to see that there is more than a
survey. But after you read all the
primary sources that we’ve read for
this class, you realize just how in-
complete a simple survey is.”’

Indeed, nearly all of them agree
that they will probably never again
be satisfied with any survey text—
not after reading De Orbe Novo,
a volume of letters to the pope writ-
ten by 16th-century Spanish ex-
plorer Peter Martyr, not after por-
ing over the Florentine Codex, an
exhaustive work compiled by an In-
dian named Sahagun.

When Parker first assigned
such readings at the beginning of
the term, his students were over-
whelmed. ‘‘He told us to go down
to the library and look up a book
by Sahagun. We almost died when
we found it in the stacks,”’ recalls
sophomore Esther Huffman of
Lovettsville, Va. ‘‘It wasn’t any lit-
tle book. It was 16 volumes!”’

But although such assignments
required an incredible amount of
work, the students believe the ef-
fort paid off.

‘It wasn’t until now that I
realized how silly it would have
been for us simply to read an

 

 

“*... you get multiple viewpoints on a
specific issue. You have an English
major’s perception of biology and a
chemistry major’s perception of the
Middle Ages.’’

Sessions of the philosophy depart-
ment. That seminar fused elements
of biology, philosophy, and even
history as students read the first
edition of Darwin’s Origin of
Species along with a modern work
on evolution and two philosophy
texts.

‘*Evolution was a new area for
me, so there were some rough
spots,’’ Sessions admits. ‘‘But it
was exciting to worry about some
ideas that were not in my particular
discipline. The class was an
amalgam of biological science and
the philosophy of biology. It was
fun to cross those disciplinary
boundaries.’’

If the professors had fun, so did
their students. ‘‘We weren’t able to
treat evolution the way graduate
students in biology could, but we
were able to do some very in-
teresting things,’ says Carter.
‘*Professor Bergstrom nearly kill-
ed himself reading one of those
philosophical texts. That’s exciting
when you see professors who are
willing to stretch themselves and
approach new ideas.”’

Carter also took an honors
course on the idea of pilgrimage in

Senior Chris Carter the Middle Ages. That seminar en-

 

 

outline of what happened during
that century in Latin America,’’ says Huffman. ‘‘I never really
understood how important it is to read the primary sources. We
got so much more out of the course by doing that.”’

Sophomore John Boller of Oak Ridge, N.J., concurs. ‘‘After
plowing through all that firsthand stuff, I will never read a text
the same way again,’’ Boller says. ‘‘I won’t just accept what a writer
says; I will want to know where the information came from. It
creates a healthy skepticism.”’

Once it had ended, the students recognized the seminar was
less a course in Latin American history than a study in critical think-
ing. ‘‘If I took a multiple choice test on Latin America today, I
would fail it,’’ Huffman confesses. ‘‘That’s not what I learned.
What I learned were methods of thinking, methods of learning
history.’’

As part of his approach, Parker utilized guest lecturers from
the departments of philosophy and sociology and anthropology.
‘‘We learned more about the people than what happened on what
date,’’ Huffman says. ‘‘We learned about what they ate for
breakfast and how they actually lived. We talked about how to
recognize author bias in reading firsthand accounts and about the
importance of going to the source and digging for information
rather than simply accepting what you’ve read.’’

W&L

compassed the ffields’ of
literature, philosophy, theology, and history.

‘‘In these honors classes you get multiple viewpoints on a
specific issue,’’ Carter explains. ‘‘You have an English major’s
perception of biology and a chemistry major’s perception of the
Middle Ages.’’

That exchange of ideas is not limited to the classroom, either.
‘‘Honors courses are much more likely to spark out-of-class con-
versation,’’ says Boller. ‘‘We often discuss the material outside
of class—you know, ‘What did you think when Professor Parker
said that?’ or whatever. People are just more interested in what
they’re learning.”’

Parker’s Latin American class included students majoring in
politics, philosophy, sociology, economics, and mathematics, to
name a few. ‘‘I plan to major in psychology,’’ says Huffman.
‘‘What do I care about Latin American history? But I really liked
the class.

‘‘The University Scholars program has offered me the chance
to take classes I ordinarily wouldn’t. And I’ve gotten to hear a
lot of views that I hadn’t heard before.”’

Says Carter: ‘‘I never would have read the first edition of Origin
of Species on my own—let’s be real. But it’s definitely been en-
joyable.”’

 

The honors courses have great attraction for the faculty, too,
says Sessions, who assumed directorship of the University Scholars
program last fall when Williams became associate dean of the
College.

‘Faculty have an opportunity to teach classes they would never
teach otherwise, either because they wouldn’t have the students
or because they would be too restrained by disciplinary boun-
daries,’’ observes Sessions, adding

made his task more difficult—and more exciting.

‘‘There’s no question that I’ve gained a lot of skills from reading
critically line by line, figuring out what it all means, and writing
about it. It’s been a very valuable experience.’”’

Perhaps the highlight of that experience came when Carter stood
before Huntley’s literature students and lectured on Waterland.
‘*Since I’m considering teaching as a career, I really enjoyed be-
ing able to teach that class for two

 

that ‘‘these are just the kind of
classes that a liberal arts college like
Washington and Lee ought to be
teaching.”’

Faculty and students both con-
cede that learning about such
‘*foreign’’ subjects as Darwinian
theory and Aztec civilization re-
quires an unusual amount of
discipline and motivation. ‘‘A lot
more self-reliance is required in
these classes,’’ says Boller. ‘‘It’s up
to every individual’s personal drive
to get the work done.’’

Adds University Scholar Andy
White, a junior and conference
champion hurdler for the Generals’
track team: ‘‘What I like most
about those classes is that you are
grouped with people who are real-
ly interested in having a stimulating
discussion. It’s not a situation of
students who are spectators to their
own education, as one of my pro-
fessors likes to say.

‘‘These people are definitely
not spectators.”’

Cris Carter spent the final
week of the 1987 winter term in
much the same way most students
spend those last few days before

 

 

‘‘T never really understood how impor-
tant it is to read the primary sources.
We got so much more out of the course
by doing that.”’

Sophomore Esther Huffman

days,’’ Carter says. ‘‘That’s an op-
portunity I could not have gotten
at just any school.”’

Even before the senior year
University Scholars can work in-
dividually with faculty members
through tutorials. Students receive
the same amount of credit for a
tutorial as they do for a regular
classroom course. The difference is
that they are naturally able to delve
more deeply into the subject mat-
ter when they are a class of one.

When he was taking an in-
troductory economics course last
winter, John Boller decided that he
would like to learn more about the
subject than he was picking up
from the lectures and the textbook.
So he arranged for regular con-
ferences with his professor and met
frequently with fellow University
Scholar John Deighan, who was
taking a tutorial in the same course
but under a different professor.

‘**John and I would go over all
the raw data together, and then we
would present it to our pro-
fessors,’’ Boller explains. ‘‘We got
a much better understanding of the
subject that way.”’

Boller has no plans to major in

 

 

exams—attending class, studying,
and writing papers. But Carter was probably the only
undergraduate on the Washington and Lee campus who was also
busy preparing lesson plans.

H. Robert Huntley, professor of English and dean of freshmen,
had asked Carter to be a guest lecturer in Huntley’s modern British
fiction course. At the time the class was studying Graham Swift’s
1984 novel Waterland. It so happened that Carter’s senior honors
thesis is on Waterland.

One primary benefit of honors seminars is the chance for the
participants to exchange ideas with their peers. Meanwhile, the
senior thesis and the tutorial, other elements of the University
Scholars program, are designed to give students an opportunity
to work on an individual basis with their professors.

‘‘The thesis,’’ says Carter, ‘‘is probably the most intense in-
dependent thinking I’ve ever had to do, not just in terms of the
book itself, but in terms of how to express my thoughts. Organiz-
ing an argument that long is a feat in itself.”’

Carter spent his entire senior year on the project. When he
wasn’t meeting with Huntley, his adviser, he was writing the paper,
which he anticipated would comprise 75 pages upon its comple-
tion. Because Waterland is such a recent novel, relatively little has
been written about it. Carter was something of a pioneer, and that

economics; in fact, he anticipates
a double major in math and French. That was precisely why he
wanted to take a tutorial in economics.

‘‘T know that I will be involved in individual study in my ma-
jor field when I do my senior thesis,’’ Boller explains. ‘‘I figured
that this was going to be the last thing I would ever do in economics,
and I wanted to get as much out of it as I could. I think the tutorial
works best for a lower-level course so you can get an idea of what
you would learn in an upper-level course, if only you had the time
to continue in the discipline.

“You have to do more work in a tutorial,’’
acknowledges. ‘‘But you definitely get more out of it.”’

Boller

Several months ago the current University Scholars sponsored
a reception on campus for high school students who were can-
didates for honor scholarships. Lad Sessions recalls that ‘‘one of
our students who was there said it was the best party he had been
to all year, and it was just Cokes, cookies, and conversation.”’

Cokes, cookies, and conversation. That is part of Sessions’ vi-
sion for University Scholars. He believes the social side of the pro-
gram needs the most development right now. “‘It’s hard to separate
the social from the intellectual, because up to this point the primary
meeting ground has been the classroom. But I would like for them

W&L 5

 

to be able to spend time with each other outside of class, where
they can engage in serious reflection and thought and meet people
they wouldn’t otherwise know.”’

Ever since its inception the University Scholars program has
sponsored social events. Visiting speakers often meet informally
with the students, and members of the group have gone on outings
together.

And, Sessions continues, ‘‘we look for the quality of non-
passivity, for those who are willing to take an active interest in
their own education.’’

The phrase Tom Williams uses to characterize University
Scholars is ‘‘intellectual aggressiveness.’’ It is a matter of com-
bining ability and curiosity. ‘“They aren’t superhumans in the sense
that they think every single idea or

 

‘*As I see it, the most important
part of the program is giving the
students a chance to meet kindred
intellectual spirits,’’ says Sessions.

Williams agrees. ‘‘Many of the
University Scholars are those
students who come to W&L and
look around and see would-be
lawyers and would-be doctors and
would-be businessmen. They see
the industrial-strength social scene
and wonder, ‘Is there anyone here
like me?’ Our program exists to
bring those students together, to
show them that there are other peo-
ple here who share their interest in
learning.”’

So far the attempt seems to
have been successful. ‘‘I had
known two University Scholars
before I came into the program,”’
says Boller. ‘‘But since I have been
in the program, I have met a lot of
people that I wouldn’t have known
otherwise. And these are not just
your basic friendships: they are real
intellectual friendships.’’

Although Sessions would like
the program to become somewhat
more structured, with an establish-
ed meeting place and perhaps even
elected officers, he is quick to add
that he does not advocate isola-
tionism. ‘‘I don’t want to see some
kind of intellectual ghetto created.
I see them more as missionaries to
a wider audience, who can share
their excitement with other
students.”’

Adds Williams: ‘‘The Univer-
sity Scholars are not some kind of

 

 

‘*. .. you are grouped with people who
are really interested in having a
stimulating discussion .... These peo-
ple are definitely not spectators.”’
Junior Andy White

suggestion is great,’’ says Williams.
‘*But they are willing to go to a lec-
ture or a concert or the like and
then admit that they learned
something.’’

Sessions points with pride to the
extracurricular accomplishments of
the University Scholars, noting that
in addition to being talented and
bright ‘‘they are also athletes and
musicians and members of
organizations all over campus.
They’re not just a bunch of weird
intellectuals off to the side.”’

Each year a selection commit-
tee chooses approximately six
University Scholars from the enter-
ing freshmen. Six more freshmen,
and sometimes a few sophomores,
are added after the completion of
the fall semester—after they have
had more opportunities to exhibit
their ‘‘intellectual curiosity.”’

‘*This is probably the only place
in the University where the late
bloomer can be recognized in terms
of financial aid,’’ Williams ex-
plains. ‘‘We award all our merit
scholarships and the like on the
basis of the high school record.
University Scholars recognizes the
students’ achievement at the college
level.

‘‘And very often these ‘late
picks’ are the very best students of
all, because they really want to be
in the program.”’

Chris Carter, a late pick
himself, says that the primary
prerequisite for University Scholars
‘tis not that you are the highest in

 

 

PR tool for Washington and Lee.

In fact, the whole program is very low-key. We don’t put them
in a separate dorm; we don’t give them T-shirts. In fact, not many
people even know who they are. But these are the students the
University needs in order to thrive.”’

And exactly what type of students are these University Scholars?
‘‘We are looking for someone who is bright, who shows intellec-
tual curiosity, who questions things and worries about things in
a non-pedestrian way,’’ explains Sessions.

‘There are some very bright people who are just plodders, who
will do well in a course provided they don’t have to think and ques-
tion. We are looking for someone who is well-rounded intellec-
tually, who is interested in pulling things together—a mathemati-
cian who is reading Shakespeare, who can talk about current events
as well as classical literature as well as quantum physics.’’

W&L

your field. You may have the
highest GPA in your class, but if it’s only because you want to
get a good job and make lots of money the program is not for
you. In fact, some of the very brightest people may be those who
don’t have the highest GPA, because they have taken courses that
are very challenging and are really beyond their level.’’

The most important qualification for University Scholars,
Williams believes, is that they love learning ‘‘for the fun of it. We’re
looking for people who want to chase ideas just because chasing
ideas is fun.’”’

Which is exactly what intrigued Chris Carter. ‘‘If you don’t
enjoy it, then there aren’t any benefits,’’ he says. ‘‘Sure the title
‘University Scholar’ might look good on the bottom of your
transcript.

‘*But the bottom line is, it’s been fun.”’

A Pulitzer Prizewinner

 

New York Times reporter Alex Jones, ’68, hits one down the middle

 

Wien Alex S. Jones, ’68, finally stop-
ped tapping away at the keyboard of his por-
table computer, it was 5:30 on a January
morning in 1986. For the better part of a
week he had been holed up in a Louisville
hotel room, chain-smoking cigarettes, guz-
zling iced tea, and piecing together the
fascinating saga of one of Kentucky’s—
indeed, the South’s—most prominent
families: the Binghams of Louisville.

Now he was drained. But he had that
feeling.

‘It’s the kind of feeling you get when you
hit a golf ball and you don’t have to look
up—you know you hit it down the middle,”’
explained Jones, a New York Times reporter.
‘‘That’s the reward that we get in the
newspaper business. The feeling you have
when you get one right.”’

Despite the early hour Jones telephoned
his wife, Time magazine writer Susan E.
Tifft, back in New York. “‘I told her, ‘I don’t
know whether anybody is going to think
anything of it, but I think it’s the best thing
that I’ve done.’ ”’

This April, 15 months after his story,
‘‘The Fall of the House of Bingham,’’ ap-
peared in the Sunday editions of the New
York Times, Jones was awarded the Pulitzer
Prize for specialized journalism. There was
no longer any doubt that he had hit one
down the middle.

Actually prizes were the farthest thing
from Alex Jones’ mind when he started to
work on the Bingham story. Here, after all,
was a story that struck so close to home for
him.

The Bingham story began to unfold on
Jan. 9, 1986, when the family’s patriarch,
Barry Bingham Sr., announced that the
family was selling all of its news media com-
panies, including Louisville’s two daily
newspapers, The Courier-Journal and The
Louisville Times. That announcement was
followed closely by the bitter response of
Barry Bingham Jr., editor and publisher of
the newspapers, who denounced his father’s
decision as outright betrayal. The Binghams’
internecine feud had become front-page
news, not only in the family’s own
newspapers but throughout the country.

‘‘What happened to the Binghams had
enormous meaning for me _ personally

By Jeffery G. Hanna

   

because I’m a Southerner and I’m from a
newspaper family of four generations,”’
Jones said in a telephone interview from New
York shortly after the Pulitzer was announc-
ed. ‘‘There were striking similarities between
the Bingham family and my own family. In
addition to the newspaper connection, the
Binghams had three sons and two daughters,
and there are three sons and two daughters
in my family.

‘‘T thought that I had an understanding
of what was going on that was, in some
respects, quite unusual. I am glad to say,
however, that my family is a very close one,
and we all get along well. Still, this was a par-

ticularly important story to me.’’

After writing an initial news story for the
Times based on the announcements made by
the Binghams, Jr. and Sr., Jones hopped on
a plane for Louisville. He spent a week in-
terviewing family members, members of the
newspaper staffs, and friends of the family.
Once he had finally finished, Jones filed a
story that wound up running 4,000 words
long.

‘*It was,’’ confessed Jones, ‘‘a long story,
a very long story. It was quite in excess of
what the Times’ limits are on length. But,
I’m glad to say, they ran it anyway. The
editor took a fancy to it, and there it went.”’

W&L 7

New York Times photo

 

 

 

‘‘For the proud Bing-
hams—a clan of Southern
patricians who are often
compared to the Kennedys
because they share a history
of tragic death and enor-
mous wealth—the pain of
selling was redoubled
because it may have been
avoidable. It is not financial
duress forcing the sale, but
implacable family strife, as
ancient as the struggle be-
tween Cain and Abel.”’

—Excerpted from
“The Fall of the House of Bingham’’
by Alex Jones

 

 

8

W&L

Arex Jones can hardly remember a time
when he wasn’t in the newspaper business.
Like many other youngsters, he once
delivered the local newspaper door-to-door.
The difference was that he was dropping his
family’s newspaper, The Greeneville Sun, on
the doorsteps of his neighbors in the East
Tennessee town of Greeneville.

At that time, his grandmother, Edith
O’Keefe Susong, was the newspaper’s
publisher. His great-grandmother, Quincy
Marshall O’Keefe, was the editor. His father,
John M. Jones, ’37, was the general
manager. And his mother, Arnie M. Jones,
was a weekly columnist.

‘‘In addition to delivering the papers and
sweeping out and delivering proofs of adver-
tisements, I can remember carrying the
pigs,’’ said Jones, using a term that will have
meaning only to someone who grew up
around newspapers in the pre-computer era
of linotype machines that set type from lead
molds.

‘*T would shovel the pigs of lead into a
machine and melt them and run them into
molds and carry them out to the linotype
machines,’’ Jones explained. ‘‘I guess I was
eight or nine at the time.”’

That is one reason Jones thought he had
an advantage over other reporters who were
trying to make some sense of the story in
Louisville last year.

‘‘I knew what it felt like to have a
newspaper as a family member,”’ he said.
‘‘And that’s what it is—this sort of living
creature that occupies another place at the
table. It’s something unto itself. It’s not just
a business. It’s not just a job. It’s a living
creature that you are a steward for,
something you work with but don’t control.

‘‘Readers are too invested in something
like a newspaper. They trust you to put the
paper out, but they consider it their own in
many ways. So often you hear people talk-
ing about ‘my newspaper,’ and that’s exact-
ly what they mean. As you work on a
newspaper, you really feel that.’’

By the time he went to prep school and
later to Washington and Lee, Jones had
begun to avoid journalism. He majored in
history at W&L and lived by a personal
motto—‘‘everything to excess.’’

‘I’m afraid I did live up to that motto.
As a Phi Delta Theta I found ample oppor-
tunity to be excessive in just about every way
imaginable,’’ Jones admitted. ‘‘I didn’t live
that way all four years, however. But every
year in its own way was wonderful. To me
Washington and Lee was like dying and go-
ing to heaven. I was absolutely blissful for
four years.”’

After graduating Jones entered the Navy
and soon found himself standing watches on

the USS Kearsarge in the Gulf of Tonkin off
Vietnam. Suddenly his newspaper family up-
bringing began to come in handy, if for no
other reason than to while away the hours.

‘‘More to amuse myself than anything
else, I started a little newspaper on the ship.
I knew how to do it by osmosis,”’ he said.

Not long after he began publishing his
newspaper, Jones got to chase his first big
story. The USS Kearsarge was the closest
ship to a collision in which an Australian air-
craft carrier, Melbourne, ran over an
American destroyer, killing 70 men. As
journalist-in-residence, Jones found himself
reporting that catastrophe to the world.

‘‘Maybe the blood told or something,’’
he observed. ‘‘I absolutely adored the pur-
suit of that story. I decided then and there
that that’s what I was going to do with
myself.”’

But it wasn’t until he was hitchhiking
across Africa a year later that Jones decid-
ed he was willing to combine his career and
his family. So he wound up back in East Ten-
nessee, working first for the Athens Daily
Post Athenian, one of the family’s papers,
before becoming editor of The Greeneville
Sun in 1978.

Three years later he won a Neiman
Fellowship for a year of study at Harvard.
It was there that he met Susan E. Tifft, who
was pursuing a master’s degree.

When he finished the fellowship Jones
returned to the editor’s desk in Greeneville;
Susan went to New York to write for Time.

‘‘Susan and I tried commuting between
New York and Greeneville for a year, and
that wasn’t satisfactory. It presented a real
dilemma: either stay with the family
newspapers, which I’d fully intended to do,
or go to New York to be with Susan,”’ said
Jones. ‘‘I used to tell people in Greeneville
that the only two newspapers I had any in-
terest in working for were The Greeneville
Sun and the New York Times. They thought
that was hilariously funny, but that’s really
the way I felt.’’

Jones’ unabashed affection for the Sun
is understandable. Today, as it was when he
was growing up, it is very much the Jones

family’s newspaper. John M. Jones is now

the publisher; his wife, Arnie, writes the
paper’s most popular column; one son, John
M. Jones Jr., is the editor; another son,
Gregg K. Jones, is co-publisher.

When the announcement of Alex Jones’
Pulitzer was made in mid-April, the Sun ran
two front-page stories about the honor.

‘‘The award gives a tremendous lift to us
and to the staffs that worked with Alex here
in Greeneville and in Athens,’’ the senior
John Jones said from Greeneville. ‘‘We
thought Alex had something unique.”’

 

Alex’s Pulitzer is not, however, the first
time the Jones family has been involved with
those awards, the most prestigious in jour-
nalism. In the summer of 1965, John Jr. was
a student at the Columbia School of Jour-
nalism when he was nominated for a Pulitzer
for his enterprising piece about a United
Airlines plane crash in the mountains near
Greeneville.

‘*This wasn’t our first experience with the
Pulitzers,’’ John Jones Sr. said. ‘‘But it was
our first experience with a winner.’’

Alex Jones left The Greeneville Sun and
joined his other favorite newspaper, the New
York Times, in November 1983. He went to
the Times as a business reporter, specializ-
ing in the communications industry. His
background in family newspapers was an im-
portant asset.

‘‘T had a somewhat unusual knowledge
of the way the newspaper business works
from the inside,’’ he said. ‘‘I was on the
editing side in Greeneville, but because I was
also the boss’s son I was involved in the
business decisions, too.

‘*Although a small newspaper is not the
same as a giant newspaper, many of the
economic questions and issues are the same.
I think the Times thought that background
would be of value to them.”’

Jones had been with the 7imes a year
when he was appointed to his current assign-
ment as the newspaper’s reporter specializ-
ing in coverage of the communications
industry.

Tic past March, a month before the
Pulitzers were announced, John Seigen-
thaler, publisher of The Nashville Tennes-
sean and editorial director of USA Today,
addressed Washington and Lee’s annual
Journalism Ethics Institute.

One of Seigenthaler’s primary messages
involved the importance of the media’s
reporting about itself. He held up two
reporters as prime examples of the way that
ought to be done. Alex Jones was one of
those reporters.

Assigning a reporter to watch the watch-
dog is not necessarily a new idea. The Times,
for instance, has had such a beat for the past
15 years. But it has become a more impor-
tant assignment in recent years and one that
Alex Jones finds particularly rewarding.

‘*As the media have become more and
more ubiquitous and more and more a fac-
tor in the ways events unfold—have even
become a player in those events—what they
are and how they work become more impor-
tant,’’ Jones said.

In his current assignment he has written
such diverse stories as an examination of
press coverage of South Africa in light of

John M. Jones, ’37, and son Alex Jones, ’68, teamed up on the family’s Greeneville Sun.

that country’s current press restrictions, on
the one hand, and a profile of former CBS
president Fred Friendly, on the other. His
stories appear in the national section and the
metro section, in the business section and the
culture section.

‘*It’s all over the map,’’ he noted.

But nothing he has written compares with
the story of the Binghams.

‘*To me, what happened to the Binghams
was a great tragedy,’’ he said of that bitter
breakup. ‘‘The Binghams are not just a
family-newspaper family. They are an ex-
traordinary family-newspaper family. They
are the kind of family and family newspaper
that make the legend of family newspapers,
because they have genuinely forsaken profit
in favor of quality. They have always had
lower profits than other newspapers because
they offered far more to the people of their
communities than newspapers of com-
munities twice their size. Losing them [as a
newspaper family] was a great sadness.’’

Too, what happened to the Binghams is

the nightmare of every family newspaper—
indeed, of every family business. That is
what made Jones’ story such an important
one.

‘*It’s a terrible, terrible thing to have a
family go to war over something like this,”’
Jones said. ‘‘It’s not a simple situation. It’s
not something with villains. But it is so fill-
ed with misunderstanding and distrust and
old grievances that go back years and years
and years. It’s not the situation of the mo-
ment that makes it happen.

‘*It’s either the trust you build up over
the years that avoids it. Or the lack of trust
that makes it almost inevitable. The
Binghams just didn’t have the
relationships—the loving and trusting re-
lationships—to fall back on when they need-
ed them most.”’

A postscript to the Pulitzer: Between
Alex’s assignments for the Times and
Susan’s assignments for Time, they are
working together on a book. Their subject?
The Bingham family of Louisville.

W&L 9

   

Photo by Earl Carter, Kingsport (Tenn.) Times-News

10

 

W&L

 

Rhetorical
Questions

Halford Ryan Examines
What Presidents Say

 

 

By Jeffery G. Hanna

«« the only thing we have to fear is fear itself...”’
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 1933
‘‘Where’s the beef?’’
Walter Mondale, 1985

Hhatrora Ryan knows how a one-man band must feel.
On the one hand, it can get pretty lonely out there all
alone on the street corner. But on the other, you never
have any arguments about when the cymbals come in.

A boon and a bane. That is how Ryan describes his
position in public speaking at Washington and Lee.

The bane is that there is no one else out there on the
street corner with him. ‘‘As the only person in speech,
there are certain limitations in terms of colleagueship,’’
says Ryan, whose office in Robinson Hall is an island
in a sea of mathematicians and computer scientists.

The boon is that he has been able to march to
whatever tunes please him. And he has done a lot of
marching indeed since arriving in Lexington 17 years ago.

‘‘My position has enabled me to teach some
courses—two on American public address in particular—
because there were not any senior people here. There
would have been such senior people at a large state univer-
sity. And, had I been in such a place, I would have had
to wait for years to teach the courses I taught when I first
came to Washington and Lee.”’

Consequently, Ryan was comparatively young, pro-
fessionally speaking, when he began teaching a course
about the speeches of such American orators as Franklin
D. Roosevelt, Harry S Truman, and Henry Ward
Beecher. ‘‘As I began to teach speeches in the American
public address course, I began to see some things that
I thought could be analyzed further,’’ Ryan says.

Early on, he devoted particular attention to FDR’s
First Inaugural address. Most Americans know that
speech for its famous ‘‘fear itself’’ line—or they at least
know the line if not its context. Ryan thinks it was the
most persuasive inaugural address ever delivered. ‘‘Much
to my surprise—I really was surprised about this—nothing
had been done on that address, and it was a very signifi-
cant address.’’

In 1978, he applied for and was awarded a grant from
the Eleanor Roosevelt Institute to conduct research in the
Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, N.Y., where he had ac-
cess to all the original material—all four drafts of the
speech, memos back and forth to advisers and speech

 

writers, audiotapes and newsreels, newspaper
and magazine clippings of the reactions to
the speech, and even letters in response to
the speech. That research produced two ar-
ticles (one on FDR’s First Inaugural, one on
his Fourth Inaugural) that were published in
The Quarterly Journal of Speech, the most
prestigious speech communication pub-
lication.

‘It became apparent to me from work-
ing with FDR’s speeches that people in
speech were not utilizing the resources of the
presidential libraries as they ought to,’’ Ryan
says. ‘“They were reading the speeches and
finding out what Newsweek and Time and
the biographers had to say. But they weren’t
really paying attention to the original
documents.”’

From Roosevelt, Ryan turned to Truman
and the speech Truman made in 1951 when
he fired Gen. Douglas MacArthur. This time
Ryan spent a week in Independence, Mo.,
at the Truman Library on a Glenn Grant
from W&L. And this time the result was an
article in Presidential Studies Quarterly.

‘*T focused my energies on what was then
an emerging field in speech communica-
tion—presidential rhetoric,’’ says Ryan.
‘‘Some political scientists recognized
presidential rhetoric and were beginning to
talk about it; people in speech were begin-
ning to treat it, too. So, largely because of
my favorable circumstance here at
Washington and Lee, I was able to get in on
the ground floor.’’

Sneaking is governing.

That, Halford Ryan explains, is the basic
tenet of what the rhetorical presidency
means.

‘Just think back,’’ Ryan says, shifting
his 6-foot-6 3/4 frame in the chair. ‘‘There
was a time when presidents did not give
speeches to the people. Oh, they did give in-
augural addresses and State of the Union ad-
dresses and ceremonial speeches. But those
speeches were given to audiences of how
many? Maybe 200 or 300 people were there.
Of course, some of this was because
presidents couldn’t reach more than that
number of people except through the
newspapers.

‘‘But it is true that presidents did not give
what are called ‘programmatic speeches’ to
the population—the kind of speeches we are
not only familiar with but have come to ex-
pect from presidents today.”’

That all changed early in the 20th cen-
tury. The earliest signs of the shift can be
seen in Theodore Roosevelt’s presidency. But
theorists argue that the turning point came
when Woodrow Wilson tried to sell Congress
on the League of Nations. Wilson’s efforts

 

failed; but the methods he employed were to
have lasting impact.

‘‘What you have with Woodrow
Wilson—a little bit with Teddy Roosevelt but
primarily with Wilson—is the rise of the
modern rhetorical presidency, where the
president makes mass persuasive appeals to
the people,’’ Ryan says. ‘‘You have the rise
of the media as the institution that mediates
their messages. You have the doctrine of the
presidential press conference, which arose
about FDR’s time, and the campaigns.

‘*And then you have the idea—and here’s
the core of it—that the president stirs the
people to move Congress. In the past the
president just communicated with Congress,
but now, the president goes to the people,
sometimes over the heads of the Congress,
to persuade the Congress.”’

Unsuccessful though they were, Wilson’s
speeches on behalf of the League of Nations
remain a textbook illustration of the
rhetorical presidency. That failure did not
deter future presidents from following
Wilson’s lead. Time and again in the years
since, presidents have chosen to take their
cases directly to the public. ‘‘Obviously
Reagan practices the rhetorical presidency all
the time,’’ notes Ryan. ‘‘That was particular-
ly true in the first part of his administration
when he would get on television and say,
‘Now Congress needs some help on my tax
bills, and you write them to support me.’
And people wrote. Reagan’s apologia on the
Iran arms sales is the most recent instance
of taking his case to the people to restore
confidence.’’

Wilson’s efforts notwithstanding, Ryan
contends that FDR was the archetype of the
rhetorical president primarily because he was
the first president to recognize the impor-
tance of talking directly to the people.

‘*Before Roosevelt, presidents just didn’t
address the populace that often. In fact, it
was considered unseemly for a president to
appeal to the people,’’ Ryan observes.

‘‘Look at Warren Harding. Does
anybody know or care anything about his

 

speaking ability? No. And Silent Cal?
Coolidge’s trademark was not to open his
mouth too much. Herbert Hoover began, in
the very latter part of his administration, to
give some speeches. But Hoover’s speeches
were uninspiring. They were dry; they were
boring. He gave a nationally broadcast
speech, and there was a five- to eight-second
gap where there isn’t anything on the radio.
He lost his place or something; it’s unclear
what he did.’”’

Then there was FDR. On the wall behind
Ryan’s desk are individual photographs of
presidents whose speeches he has ex-
amined—Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson.
But there are four photographs of FDR.
Even without such photographic evidence,
Ryan would have difficulty hiding his esteem
for Roosevelt’s rhetorical skills. In fact, he
is currently at work on a book titled Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt’s Rhetorical Presidency.

‘FDR had an idea of what he wanted to
communicate to the people, and he also had
a sense of how he ought to do it,’’ says Ryan.
‘‘He was intimately involved in the prepara-
tion of his addresses.”’

As opposed to Truman who, Ryan notes,
would take a speech his staff had given him
and simply read it, Roosevelt labored over
every word in draft after draft. Ryan il-
lustrates by examining this one line from

Roosevelt’s First Inaugural: ‘‘The people |

have made me the present instrument of their
wishes.’’

‘*In the first draft the line read, ‘The peo-
ple have made me the instrument of their
wishes.’ Roosevelt inserted one little word—
‘present.’ Why? I think he did that because
Hitler had just taken power and people were
worried about whether our democracy was
going to last. So ‘present’ indicates, well,
four years. He was careful to change
language that could negatively portray him
as a dictator throughout his four terms. Peo-
ple charged him with that all the time. He
didn’t want to reinforce that image.

‘We don’t know the careful crafting that
went into those speeches—the way words and
phrases were altered from one draft to the
next and even at the podium—until we go
back and look at all the material, which is
the great benefit of researching in the
presidential libraries.’’ Since starting at the
Roosevelt Library, Ryan has now conducted
research in six different presidential libraries.

Selecting just the right words and phrases’

to create a compelling message is one thing;
standing on the rostrum and conveying those
words and phrases to an audience is another
matter. Although Ryan warns of the fallacy
of emphasizing the way the message is
delivered at the expense of the message itself,
he does concede that an effective speaker

W&L ii

 

!

 

must strive for balance between what is said
and the way it is said. And Ryan holds up
FDR as a president who found such balance.

‘*Roosevelt was very, very effective in his
delivery,’’ says Ryan. ‘‘He was superb on the
radio. But one thing to remember is that
Americans at that time didn’t really know
what presidents sounded like on the radio to
make a comparison. For instance, Roosevelt
spoke about 100 words a minute, which is
extremely slow. Normal conversational rate
is about 150 or 160 words a minute. I’ve
played Roosevelt’s speeches for students, and
they get bored with them.

‘‘But his listeners had no idea, really,
what a president ought to sound like. And
Roosevelt’s voice was excellent. He
modulated it so that he evoked the whole
range of human emotions. His delivery in
contrast with, say, Hoover’s was striking.
Someone once suggested that if Hoover had
delivered Roosevelt’s First Inaugural the
stock market would have lurched down
another 20 points.

‘‘Take Gerald Ford. A critic noted that
it was very hard for Ford to use these sports
metaphors—action, aggression, move-
ment—to talk about whipping inflation when
he had such a lethargic delivery.
‘Let’s ... get... out... there... and

.. gO... now,’ just won’t work,’’ Ryan
says, lapsing into a sluggish monotone.

What Ryan calls the rhetorical presiden-
cy has changed dramatically from
Roosevelt’s era—an era when the president
could command 40 minutes of air time on
national radio for a fireside chat with the
American people.

‘‘We don’t get those kinds of speeches
anymore,’’ Ryan says. ‘‘That kind of
rhetoric is exorbitantly expensive. Now
everything is written—and this is prob-
lematical for a democracy, I think—for the
phrase, the one line, that will be
remembered.

‘“‘“Roosevelt did that, too: ‘rendezvous
with destiny’ and ‘the only thing we have to
fear is fear itself.’ The irony is that Roosevelt
didn’t know at the time those things would
be picked up. For instance, when he pledged
the American people a ‘New Deal,’ that par-
ticular phrase was just tacked on at the end
of the speech. He didn’t know, nor did his
speech writers know, that those words were
going to have an impact, but they certainly
weren’t going to back away from the impact
they achieved.

‘*Today, I think you have speech writers
actually trying for the one-liners with the
knowledge that they are appealing. You have
Walter Mondale asking the hamburger
chain’s question, ‘Where’s the beef?’ Writers
place five or six of those one-liners

12 W&L

 

in a speech and hope the press will pick out
one. If they do, the writers have done their
job.”’

Given the omnipresence of media these
days, it would seem utterly unthinkable for
anyone to enter the political arena without
at least a basic competence in public speak-
ing. Yet, Ryan wonders whether the em-
phasis on turning a clever phrase while smil-
ing into the TV camera might not have gone
to an extreme.

‘*T’ll play devil’s advocate and suggest
that the attributes of a good speaker are not
necessarily those of a good president, and the
attributes of a good president are not
necessarily those of a good speaker,’’ says
Ryan. ‘‘Critics of Reagan have been saying
that about him for some time. I certainly
would agree that delivery skills are very im-
portant. for anyone seeking political office
these days. But the American people might
have been awakened to the fact that too
much glibness is not useful.’’

| 5 Ryan cannot put his finger on
what he found so appealing about standing
in front of an audience and giving a speech.
He can, however, point to precisely what
kept him from pursuing a basketball career.

In his freshman year of high school in
Anderson, Ind., Ryan was as tall as he is
today—exactly 6-6 3/4. He has neither gain-
ed nor lost a centimeter of height in the past
quarter century. To prove that claim to his
students, Ryan wears a 25-year-old letter
sweater to class once a year. The sweater fits
him perfectly, just as it did when he was a
high school freshman.

‘*As tall as I am I never had any interest
in sports. In the eighth and ninth grade, I
did try to play basketball. I was extremely
awkward—if you can imagine a person in the
ninth grade that tall,’’ Ryan explains.

‘‘One day I was playing basketball and
I got arebound. You’ve got to see this now.”’
He unfolds from the chair and stands to
demonstrate. ‘‘I was dribbling the ball down
the court. Here’s my dribble, see.’’ The im-

 

aginary ball bounces up around his
shoulders. ‘‘And some little short shrimp
came in and stole the ball from me. I drib-
bled air twice. And I said, ‘That’s the end.
I’m not playing.’ ”’

Not long after he had arrived at Wabash
College, the school’s basketball coach spot-
ted Ryan walking across campus one day and
came rushing up to him. ‘‘Do you play
basketball?’’ the coach asked. ‘‘No,’’ Ryan
replied. ‘‘Do you want to play basketball?”’
the coach persisted. ‘‘No,’’ Ryan replied.

‘‘The poor man went away crestfallen.
I suppose I was, in Vice President Spiro
Agnew’s terms, an effete intellectual snob.’’

Ryan devoted much of his spare time at
Wabash honing his skills as a member of the
Speakers’ Bureau. For three of his under-
graduate years, Ryan traveled around In-
diana giving a 30-minute speech about the
battle between the Monitor and the Mer-
rimac as part of the Civil War centennial in
progress then.

‘*T guess public speaking fit my interests.
I always enjoyed giving speeches.’’

After a year at Princeton Theological
Seminary on a Rockefeller Theological Fel-
lowship, Ryan entered the graduate program
in speech at the University of Illinois, where,
he says ruefully, ‘‘I never gave a speech
again. The emphasis was on scholastic rather
than practical attainment. In fact, I was ap-
palled by the speaking behaviors of some of
the graduate students there.”’

That observation serves to underscore
Ryan’s basic theme about presidential
rhetoric: the way in which ideas are delivered
is almost as important as having ideas that
are worth delivering.

‘‘One of the problems students face in
college speech courses is that they must have
something to say first, and then have to say
it well,’’ Ryan explains. ‘‘It’s been my ex-
perience that W&L students can conduct
research, assemble a speech, and deliver it.

‘*To be acritical thinker, now that’s dif-
ferent and difficult. Generally, I’ve found
that students have difficulty in thinking
critically, in analyzing motives. They read
what’s written and can tell me what it says.
But to answer the question, ‘why?’—that’s
a little more troublesome. Perhaps the U.S.
educational system is not geared to produce
critical analysis in students. I don’t think it’s
the fault of W&L. I don’t know where the
dysfunction is, but it does seem to exist.”’

The bread-and-butter course in public
speaking remains the performance course or
what Ryan calls ‘‘the stand up and give five
speeches course.’’ And since marketability
is the byword among today’s student genera-
tion, a course in public speaking is con-
sidered an invaluable asset.

 

Debate is another ball game

As any coach will readily attest, winning on the road is a
major achievement. Home court advantage is not limited to
basketball, either. That is why Halford Ryan, coach of
Washington and Lee’s debate team, was surprised—not to
mention delighted—when his team scored a major upset on
its first road trip to Great Britain.

_ In 1985 the debate team inaugurated a biennial England
tour during which a two-member Washington and Lee team
debated British teams on a variety of topics. At the Universi-
ty of Exeter in Devonshire, W&L debaters Chris Lion, ’86,
and Rick Graves, ’87, argued that American English is better
than British English. Once the voices were stilled and a vote
was taken, the British audience sided with the Yanks.

The fact that a Washington and Lee debate team won a
round in Great Britain is not nearly so important, in Ryan’s
opinion, as the fact that two debaters have the opportunity
to make such a trip every other year and to experience the
distinctive style of British debate.

‘*American debating is highly structured, formalized, and
comprehensible only to those people who do it,’’ observes
Ryan, whose team wins numerous speaker and team trophies

fective training for addressing real audiences. That’s why we
do both styles of debate.

‘*That’s the substantial educational value that two very
lucky students get by making the English tour. The English
crowds think nothing of interrupting. They’ll say, ‘Hear!
Hear!’ They’ll shout an objection. And the speaker has to
keep going or stop and say some snide or sarcastic retort.
The British expect and value that kind of debate. So our
students get a cultural lesson that shows other people can
run a democracy differently than we do and still have a
democracy. They also get an idea of how to handle live peo-
ple.”’

Debate in any format represents a form of intellectual
sparring that appeals to very basic competitive instincts, says
Ryan, adding: ‘‘Debaters are adversarially oriented. Football
players want to tackle people. So do debaters but in an in-
tellectual way.’’

Just as free speech is an underlying tenet of democracy,
so is the concept of free and open debate. The prototype of
campaign debates was Lincoln versus Douglass in which each
man held the other responsible for his remarks.

Ryan thinks it is regrettable that what pass for political
debates today have become little more than two-person press
conferences in which opponents respond to questions from
the media, not from one another.

 

‘‘Most students think they need such
training. It’s a salable skill,’’ says Ryan.
‘‘They ask, ‘Can I get up in a meeting and
make a speech with an introduction, a discus-
sion, and a conclusion? Can I make my ideas
clear? Is my eye contact going to be
reasonable?’ ”’

Although he accepts the validity of those
goals, Ryan thinks there are more basic
reasons than marketability for students to
learn how to speak in public. One such
reason, he suggests, has to do with the fact
that free speech is one of the foundations of
a democracy.

“Did you know that speech-related
courses are taught only in democracies?’’
Ryan asks. ‘‘The Chinese and the Russians
don’t have such courses. Why not? Because
everything is decided from the top. You
don’t need anybody to tell the leadership
how to do it. They’ll do it themselves.”’

There is a flip side to learning how to
speak effectively. That is learning how to
listen effectively. One of the intellectual
foundations of a public speaking course is
the concept that a democracy requires an
educated populace that can understand what
the rhetoric is about, dissect it, debate it, and
hold the political powers accountable for

in dozens of debate tournaments each year.

‘‘English debates have their drawbacks—they’re not very
logical and they don’t really dissect arguments. But they do
prepare their students very effectively to deal with real
crowds of people. American collegiate debates take place in
front of a critic-judge, and nobody else is in the room except
the four debaters and the judge. That’s good for a kind of
intellectual dissecting of arguments. I don’t know that it’s ef-

what has been said.

‘*In a way, I suppose, the mission of peo-
ple in speech is to maintain a democracy,’’
he says. ‘‘After all, for a democracy to work
you’ve got to have free speech, and you must
have people who understand what’s
spoken.’’

That is a bit more ambitious goal for col-
lege speech courses than teaching students
how to make spellbinding sales pitches
without uttering a single ‘‘uh’”’ or ‘‘you
know.’’ The one-man band approach has
allowed Ryan to set more ambitious goals—
both for himself and his students. His
research on presidential rhetoric has resulted
in numerous publications, book reviews, and
convention papers, including a book of
speeches and criticism, American Rhetoric
From Roosevelt to Reagan, which is now in
its second edition. But Ryan routinely brings
his research into the classroom.

‘‘The result has been what I call a
synergism,’’ Ryan says. ‘‘I have been able
to do research in the presidential libraries
that has, in turn, allowed me to produce
some publications. Those benefit me, of
course, but they benefit the students, too.
The work is helpful because I teach it to the
students.”’

‘*That’s the phoniness of the so-called presidential cam-
paign debates,’’ he says. ‘‘Really, we ought to have let
Reagan tie into Mondale and let Mondale challenge Reagan.
If they wanted to talk about foreign policy, they could talk
about foreign policy. But let the candidates set the agenda,
not the press. Out of that one-on-one encounter will come
much better debate and much better decision-making infor-
mation for the electorate.’’

In fact, one publication that Ryan men-
tions is an article on Jimmy Carter’s in-
augural address. It is not Ryan’s essay. It was
written by Reade Williams, ’86, a student in
Ryan’s presidential rhetoric seminar last
spring.

‘*‘T happened to be examining the genre
of presidential inaugurals—what inaugural
addresses are supposed to do theoretically
and what they do actually,’’ Ryan explains.

As its term project, the class was to focus
on inaugurals in the 20th century. Williams’
paper on Carter’s inaugural successfully
challenged an article on that address. Ryan
thought the paper had possibilities of being
published and helped Williams get it in
shape. The article was ultimately accepted,
by blind review, for publication in the
Virginia Journal of Communication.

‘*T was particularly pleased with that,”’
Ryan says. ‘‘I think what happened in Reade
Williams’ case is an example of the kind of
symbiotic relationship that can accrue be-
tween teaching and publishing. You have two
dissimilar organisms living side by side,
mutually advantaged.”’

In such instances, Ryan would admit, the
boon of being a one-man band clearly
outweighs the bane.

W&L 13

 

 

 

<ANGC42mnA

 

Unconventional
Celebration

 

Elvis, Flamingos Liven Mock Constitutional Convention

 

F was, former CBS correspondent Fred
Graham said, probably the closest the United
States will ever come to a real constitutional
convention.

Instead of a sweltering room in
Philadelphia’s Constitution Hall, the scene
was a comparatively cool Warner Gym-
nasium. Instead of 55 men wearing
waistcoats and white wigs, the participants
were 475 students, most of the women wear-
ing spring dresses and many of the men
sporting madras shorts with shirts and ties.

On a sun-dappled Saturday in May,
Washington and Lee students took time from
their studies and/or their trips to Goshen
Pass to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the

144 W&L

By Brian D. Shaw

U.S. Constitution by staging a mock con-
stitutional convention—an educational exer-
cise that was at once unique and perfectly in
keeping with the University’s tradition for
mock political conventions.

Rather than resorting to mere theatrics
by reenacting the original constitutional con-
vention, the students convened a contem-
porary convention in which they made a
careful examination of the 200-year-old U.S.
Constitution by considering how and
whether it might be amended if a constitu-
tional convention were to be held in this day
and time.

The one-day mock constitutional conven-
tion is believed to be the only exercise of its

kind during this year of celebration. It was
the brainstorm of Peter Bennorth, a senior
from Wyckoff, N.J. He and his steering
committee had spent more than a year plan-
ning the event.

Organizers of the mock constitutional
convention took their cue from the establish-
ed mock political convention. They began
last fall to recruit delegates who represented
all 50 states. Between their recruitment and
the convention on May 2, the delegates con-
tacted various officials—representatives,
senators, governors, and state legislators—
in the states they were to represent in efforts
to gather information on the amendments
that were considered by the convention. The

 

goal, as in the mock political convention, was
to cast educated ballots based on the posi-
tions that each state’s delegation would be
likely to take on the various issues.

Two months before the convention, a
rules committee selected five amendments to
be placed before the delegates. The issues
with which those amendments dealt were a
balanced budget, right-to-life, a states’
powers act, a line-item veto, and equal rights.
A sixth amendment was sponsored from the
floor by delegates of the states of Oklahoma
and Texas. It proposed that English be made
the official language of the United States.

Only one of the six amendments con-
sidered by the convention—the states’
powers act—received the two-thirds majority
necessary for ratification.

That amendment read: ‘‘Congress, the
President, or any agent or agency of the
Federal Government shall not withhold or
withdraw appropriations from a state, nor
exclude a state from legislation with respect
to appropriations, as a means to require a
state to comply with Federal policy which is
not a fiscal policy for which the Congress,
President, or any agent or agency of the
Federal Government has no power, express
or implied, to impose upon a state under the
Constitution of the United States.’

The only other amendment that came
close to passage was the proposed amend-
ment that would have required a balanced
federal budget. That amendment failed by
the narrow margin of seven votes.

I, his keynote address to the convention,
Graham said that he doubted a constitutional
convention would be held in the United
States in the foreseeable future.

The question of a line-item veto, he said,
was the only issue likely to inspire a conven-
tion because Congress naturally opposes giv-
ing the president power to veto specific items
in bills passed by both houses. On other
issues, Graham said, Congress will usually
cave in to public demand before states build
enough support for a constitutional
convention.

Graham warned the delegates of loading
the Constitution with details that might not
stand the test of time.

‘*This constitution isn’t perfect,’’ he said,
‘“‘but it has lasted 200 years .... We’ve
become accustomed to it. It suits our culture.
It suits our political structure. We shouldn’t
tamper with it.’’

Although the constitutional convention
was not as large as its prototype, the mock
political convention, and lacked the tradi-
tional pre-convention parade, it did combine
the same degree of hoopla and homework
that has made Washington and Lee foremost

 

Former CBS newsman Fred Graham
(left) gave the keynote address
before the delegations began
deliberating the proposed
amendments.

 

 

A member of the Texas delegation
(right) with the poster that expressed
the Lone Star State’s sentiments

while delegates (below) confer on the r :
issues.

OLve

\
7 AN

fe

   

 

among the country’s colleges and universities
in political prognostication.

The lighthearted atmosphere of the con-
vention, Graham said, was appropriate.
‘I’m glad the spirit here is not overly
solemn,’’ he said. ‘‘We tend to think of the
first convention in only very solemn terms.”’

Solemn, it most certainly was not. The
placard of the Tennessee delegation was
decorated with a velvet portrait of Elvis
Presley. And the delegates from Tennessee
claimed to be receiving spiritual guidance
from the late king of rock-and-roll.

When it came time for Tennessee to cast

16 W&L

its vote on the balanced budget amendment,
delegation chairman Lester Coe stepped to
the aisle microphone and intoned: ‘‘Elvis has
spoken and instructed us to vote nay.’’
Confederate flags were scattered among
the Southern states’ section. A pink flamingo
was perched atop the placard of the Florida
delegation. That prompted the Georgia
delegation to declare ‘‘open season on fla-
mingos.’’ The Texas delegation met under
a sign that urged ‘‘Dissolve the Union.”’
Before debate began on each amendment
the delegates heard pro and con speeches on
each issue from W&L faculty members.

In his speech in favor of the Equal Rights
Amendment, Lewis LaRue, professor of law,
told the convention the issue came down to
two questions.

‘‘What do we stand for?’’ LaRue asked
the delegates. ‘‘And how much of that are
we willing to put into the Constitution?”’

Roger Dean, associate professor of ad-
ministration, said that his opposition to the
ERA should not be perceived as being sexist
or anti-women.

Argued Dean: ‘‘If the Constitution is
amended, we leave it to a group of unelected
Supreme Court justices to determine what
the amendment means.”’

Craig McCaughrin, associate professor
of politics, finished his speech in favor of a
line-item veto with a rousing rendition of
‘‘Vote for the Line-Item Veto’’ to the tune
of ‘‘Three Cheers for the Red, White and
Blue.”’

The roll call votes and debates from the
floor brought the usual caustic and
humorous responses. Andrew Caruthers of
Louisiana, for instance, answered a roll call
by noting that his state is ‘‘the home of Gov.
Edwin Edwards, who has been indicted more
times than any other politician, but always
acquitted by a jury.”’

As the convention cast ballots on the
balanced budget amendment, one delegation
leader announced, ‘‘South Carolina, home
of Jim and Tammy Bakker, votes ‘Yes.’ ”’

Late in the evening, when the toll of the
long day’s events was beginning to tell on the
delegates, Wade Hampton, chair of the
Florida delegation, responded to yet another
roll call by allowing that his delegation was
‘still conscious.”’

And although the splendid springtime
weather did tend to lure more than a few
delegates out of Warner Center toward other
pursuits as the day progressed, by the time
the gavel came down to end the third and
final session, the convention officials were
mostly pleased with the results of their
efforts.

‘*We set out to get some students together
to think about the Constitution and to have
a good time,’’ said Robert McAhren, pro-
fessor of history and faculty adviser to the
convention. ‘‘I think we did both.’’

McAhren noted that the task of organiz-
ing the mock constitutional convention, as
opposed to that of a mock political conven-
tion, was particularly difficult because the
event was without precedent.

‘‘There has been no constitutional con-
vention since 1787,’’ McAhren said. ‘‘There
is no tradition of how they should do it.
Given what they had to do and the time in
which they had to it, the students did an ex-
cellent job.’’

 

oe ne ae

 

 

 

3 See Se

A portion of the Civil War collection of University Trustee Beverly M. DuBose III

Digging for History

 
 
    

 

 

 

The American Civil War Collection of Beverly M. DuBose

 

WV cccces and Lee history professor J.
Holt Merchant at 35,000 feet on a return
flight from Atlanta after visiting the Civil
War collection of W&L Trustee Beverly M.
DuBose III: ‘‘I’m enormously impressed.
I’ve never seen such an immense variety of
material. My God, the guns alone... .”’

Merchant trails off into the kind of
reverie that afflicts certain historians. It is
the sudden absence characteristic of those
who enjoy walking up and down the cor-
ridors of their own mental libraries and who
must from time to time, as Merchant now
felt compelled to do, rearrange a shelf to ac-
commodate a new volume of information.

By Robert Fure

In a few minutes, vaguely reassured, he’s
back again: ‘‘Of course, the technology of
the Civil War is only one aspect of the total
picture. The weapons are important in
themselves, but far more important for what
they tell us about the history of our society,
the fact that Americans back then were will-
ing to turn those things on themselves and
spill all that blood for all those years. That’s
what’s important. ”’

Merchant gazes out the aircraft window
at a low bank of clouds lying like a can-
nonade over the Carolina Blue Ridge. In his
pocket are an assortment of Minie balls, just
a few of the millions of .58 caliber bullets

fired from both sides of the battlelines dur-
ing the War. Back in Atlanta, Merchant
received from DuBose several types for
display to his students at W&L. The bullets
feel like wealth in his pocket.

Below Merchant, carefully wrapped in
the airliner’s luggage compartment, sits
another gift, a 12-lb. Whitworth rifled can-
non shot, precious cargo that Merchant un-
successfully tried to carry aboard the plane
with him. Airport security was unimpressed
by the artifact’s historical value. What’s im-
portant to one person—for whatever
reason—is still just plain dangerous to
another.

W&L 17

Joe McTyre Photography

 

This story is about two historians, actual-
ly. For one, history is a vocation. For the
other, it is an avocation, though an obsessive
one. Together they represent one of the ways
history gets written, or how it emerges even-
tually from piles of facts and artifacts ac-
cumulated by those who suffer from the
restless compulsion to see and feel the stuff
of lost times. Their story also illustrates how
W&L alumni may find from time to time the
opportunity to repay their college education
by teaching the University’s teachers a thing
or two.

Merchant and DuBose were at W&L
together in the late ’50s and early ’60s. Mer-
chant graduated in 1961, DuBose in 1962.
Though the campus community was smaller
then, they didn’t really know each other.
Merchant was Pi Kappa Phi, DuBose Pi
Kappa Alpha.

‘‘I knew who he was,’’ says Merchant,
‘‘but we ran in different circles. I was going
through by the skin of my teeth. I don’t think
DuBose had to worry.’’

In truth, they had different preoccupa-
tions. Merchant thought he’d like to be an
economist, while DuBose, even back then,
most enjoyed re-fighting the Civil War.
DuBose’s preoccupation had, in fact,
brought him to Washington and Lee. But the
story of DuBose’s interest in the War actually
goes way back, winding through several
generations of his family back to the War
itself. It was simply part of his patrimony.

DuBose likes to tell the story—‘‘if my
feeble memory serves me correctly,’’ he
drawls in a thickening Atlanta accent. His
father used to accompany DuBose’s grand-
father on expeditions through the Georgia
cornfields and piney woods to locate the sites
of Civil War battlefields. It was then that the
DuBoses began picking up the myriad
fragments of the War. DuBose himself began
tagging along at the age of six. His father
had just come back from World War II, he
says, with a new idea.

“In the Navy he had learned about mine
detectors, and he got to thinking that it
would be a heck of a deal to use one of those
things for going back and looking over all
the battlefields. So when he got back he
picked up a ferrous metal detector, and we
started taking it with us everywhere we went.
Of course, back then every farmer in Georgia
had a Mason jar full of Minie balls. But with
a meta! detector we were able to find things
buried under the soil.’’

So equipped, DuBose and his father
would spend their vacations traveling from
battlefield to battlefield from Georgia to
Pennsylvania. His father was a great student
of battle tactics, while DuBose himself had
a boyish fascination with guns, swords, and

18 W&L

all the good stuff he could show his friends.
Together, with the aid of their detection
equipment, they deepened their understand-
ing of not only how Civil War battles were
fought but also precisely where.

For every battlefield, DuBose has a vivid
memory of their site research. ‘‘An in-
teresting one was the Battle of The
Wilderness up in Virginia. It was fought in
featureless, heavily wooded terrain. You see,
long before the War they had discovered iron
ore in the area and had cut down all the trees
to make charcoal for their smelters. Now
when you cut hardwoods off at the stump,
you know, it comes back up again in several
shoots. The overgrowth was so thick that you
literally couldn’t see but several feet.

*‘One of the pretty nasty engagements
that occurred there was when the Union
Army, a Vermont brigade, was moving for-
ward to attack a company of Confederate
rifle, and vice versa. The difference was that
the Union forces were advancing shoulder to
shoulder through the dense woods, while the
Confederates were taking the easier route
single file down a line of abandoned railroad
tracks. Well, all of a sudden the Con-
federates realized that the other boys were
just on the other side of the railroad cut. So
they simply wheeled up out of that cut and
hit the Union line right on the end and just
rolled ’em right up. The Vermont brigade
had 75 percent casualties that day.”’

DuBose leans forward, as if he is about
to let you in on a little secret. “Now the way
we found it was that all of a sudden out
amongst the woods we started coming up
with all kinds of dropped cartridges.’’
DuBose explains that during intense gunfire
soldiers tended to grab handfuls instead of
single cartridges while loading their weapons.
Such dropped cartridges were a sure sign of
a skirmish site.

‘‘And that’s how we found the actual
line. I’ll never forget it as long as I live,
everything we uncovered—all the tin ware,
the canteens, cartridge boxes, belt buckles—
was just shot all to hell, I mean everything
had bullet holes in it. I recall walking down
the line and all of a sudden, there in the mid-
dle of the woods, coming upon a ramrod
sticking right up out of the ground. Just
think of it, that ramrod had been standing
there where the soldier left it for almost 100
years, a little rusty but still pretty much in-
tact. That day we also dug up a little silver
cross with a man’s name on it, ‘John Sa-
been,’ who was killed that day. He was a
member of that Vermont brigade.’’

During his youth DuBose picked over
and under just about every battlefield of the
War. When he first came to Washington and
Lee, he was a senior in high school on a tour,

during school vacation, of both colleges and
yet more battlefields. ‘‘I had just been to
Duke, and it had been one of the most
depressing experiences of my life.’’ He
laughs. ‘‘But then we arrived at W&L and
everybody was so friendly and the campus
was so beautiful. I said, ‘Daddy, this is the
place I want to go to school. Now let’s get
back to digging up Minie balls.’ It never
dawned on me that I might not be able to
get in.”’

It was fortunate for W&L that he was ad-
mitted, for he proved to be both an outstand-
ing student and campus leader: president of
the Commerce Fraternity, president of Pi
Kappa Alpha, vice president of the senior
class, and member of Beta Gamma Sigma,
the honor fraternity in business administra-
tion. Of course, every vacation during his
college years put him out digging in Civil
War battlefields with his father.

By the time DuBose arrived at W&L, the
Federal Park Service no longer granted
private collectors permission to dig for Civil
War relics on federally held property.
DuBose took it in stride: ‘‘In the govern-
ment’s egalitarian principle, if everybody
can’t do it, then nobody can do it. Of course,
everybody kept on doing it. At that time it
was a source of income for lots of people—
kids and grown men who would go out and
dig stuff up and sell it so they could go to
the drive-in movie.’’ DuBose shrugs, ‘‘Our
rationale was that at least we were preserv-
ing it for posterity.”’

He went on digging, by moonlight.

Ana preserve it he has.

DuBose’s large house sits on a wooded
hill, Rebel Ridge, overlooking Atlanta. Here
and there on the property are cannon and
shallow, leaf-filled entrenchments used by
both sides during the long battle for Atlanta
during the War. Sharing the house and in
varying degrees his passion for collecting are
his wife, Eileen, and his two sons, Jeff and
Bo. His mother lives next door in the house
built by his late father. That’s where it all is.

Merchant’s eyes are as bright as a bird’s.
As he walks with DuBose across the yard to
his mother’s house, he can almost hear
bugles and the boom of distant artillery in
the night. Back home in Lexington, Mer-
chant’s own address is, coincidentally,
‘*Rebel Ridge’’ also, though it’s not quite as
high, dark, and haunted as this one. Once
there were real rebels here. The deep earth
holds Minie balls like diamonds.

DuBose’s collection of Civil War
memorabilia is stored in the basement of his
parents’ house where he and his father spent
countless evenings studying and cataloging
their latest finds. There didn’t used to be a

 

basement to DuBose’s elegant
ancestral home. But the collection
had to go somewhere, so the senior
DuBose had one dug.

Merchant follows DuBose
down a narrow stairway to a large,
brightly lit room whose walls are
lined with shelves filled from floor
to ceiling with the rusted artifacts
of their battlefield discoveries.
Each shelf is carefully cataloged by
location and type of artifact. One
could spend hours poring over
shells, buckles, buttons, rifles,
bayonets, cartridge boxes—the
grim, fragmentary reminders of the
nation’s bloodiest conflict. Mer-
chant would, except that DuBose
rattles his keys and moves on to
another door at the far end of the
room.

The door opens to a virtual
catacombs, each room filled with
a dazzling array of immaculately
preserved items: flags, uniforms,
swords, arms and ammunition,
books, paintings and photographs,
field desks, cases of insignia, and
mess gear. Merchant whistles with
amazement.

‘‘Of course, we didn’t exactly
dig up any of this stuff,’’ DuBose allows.
‘‘We acquired it. Our aim was to gather the
best record of Civil War material that we
could.’’ When asked to estimate the size and
value of the collection, DuBose nods,
unblinking, ‘‘I think that you can say that
this is the most complete collection in private
hands today.”’

The enormously varied items that com-
pose DuBose’s collection came from many
different sources. Beyond the battlefield
relics, gathered on digging excursions with
his father throughout the South and mid-
Atlantic states, DuBose either purchased or
inherited much of the material. ‘“The
uniforms, flags, and personal items were ob-
tained in many instances from the families
of the original owners. Many were gifts from
people who simply wanted the items preserv-
ed. We found others in the hands of dealers
or collectors who were not interested in re-
taining ownership.

‘‘The guns and other military equipment
came for the most part from recognized
dealers throughout the United States and
England, as weil as from fellow collectors.
Collectors often acquire duplicates, lose in-
terest, or have items outside their particular
specialties. For these reasons, there is con-
siderable activity among collectors. Gun
shows are perhaps the best place to find
special items in that these shows provide a

 

DuBose (right) instructs Professor Merchant.

common meeting ground for people with
similar interests. Nonetheless, a collector
must have the instincts of a detective along
with broad knowledge of his subject. Col-
lecting requires knowledge and time for
careful investigation as well as sufficient
funds. The results can be both quite satisfy-
ing and tangible.’’

eae Merchant moves over to the
walls lined with long arms, some 300 of
them, cleaned and polished, each one
unique. ‘‘It’s unreal,’’ he exclaims, his hands
itching to heft the real thing. DuBose takes
down a weighty specimen almost reluctantly,
for he knows that once he begins to run
through this portion of the collection they
could be up all night.

‘‘This is a Whitworth, a muzzle-loader
made in England for the Union forces.
Notice the hexagonal barrel. The cartridges,
also hexagonal, slid down the barrel like they
were on tracks. The rifling was extremely
tight, 27 inches for a complete revolution,
which made for a very accurate weapon. It
was a favorite of sharpshooters.”’

DuBose moves over to another row of
rifles. ‘‘Over here is the 1841 Mississippi. It
was the first percussion long arm adopted by
the United States Army. It got the name
‘Mississippi rifle’ because it was first used
during the Mexican War by Mississippi

troops under the command of Jef-
ferson Davis. To me it’s one of the
prettiest long arms we ever produc-
ed. Now every Mississippi that you
see here is by a different maker,
and every one has a different adap-
tation. Here, for example, is an
1855 version. What makes this one
interesting is that it was manufac-
tured at Harper’s Ferry. Later dur-
ing the War, Stonewall Jackson
captured the machinery and had it
moved to Richmond and Fay-
etteville, N.C.”’

DuBose confesses that, as his
collection of guns mounted, his real
interest began to turn toward what
the guns could tell him about the
industrial context of the War. The
North, of course, was much more
heavily industrialized at the out-
break of the War than the agrarian
South. Initially, the Union effort
was supplemented by the purchase
of 700,000 arms abroad, while the
Confederates could muster only
130,000. Eventually, through its
greater capability to manufacture
arms, the North was able to sup-
ply its forces with more than two
million rifles. Confederate
weapons were far fewer in number and
generally cruder in manufacture. Not surpris-
ingly, they are the ones more highly prized
by the collector.

But DuBose still has the aficionado’s ap-
preciation for fine workmanship. He moves
with pride to his ‘‘Henry,’’ a repeating rifle
and the finest long arm used during the War.
His son Jeff eagerly retrieves it for him and
reverently examines its beautifully crafted
hardware. ‘‘This is the ultimate,’’ says Jeff.
DuBose elaborates. ‘‘Oliver Winchester was
an investor in the Henry Arms Company and
he bought it out after the War. So this is the
design that the Winchester rifle evolved
from.

‘‘There’s the story about a Union cap-
tain who after the War took this rifle out
West with him and got into a tangle with a
bunch of Indians in the Battle of the Wagon
Box. You see, the Indians had this trick of
drawing your fire and then rushing you,
figuring that you’d be busy reloading. Well,
with the Henry, which was a 16-shot
repeater, this yokel didn’t have that problem.
They say he killed or wounded over 300 In-
dians that day.’’ DuBose chuckles. ‘‘Of
course, the tables got turned at the Battle of
the Little Big Horn. The Indians had the
Henry, and Custer didn’t.’

Beyond those filled with guns are five
other rooms devoted to swords (more than

W&L 19

 

The DuBose collection,
which includes uniforms
and flags in addition to
weapons, eventually grew
so large the family had a
basement built to house it.

200, again each one unique), uniforms
(Union as well as Confederate), and a vast
variety of the accoutrements of the common
soldier. DuBose’s insatiable hunger for Civil
War artifacts brought him not only in-
numerable items of hardware but also im-
portant collections of correspondence. These
letters reveal poignantly the human dimen-
sion of the conflict; a few of these conclude
with the signature of Robert E. Lee.
Other items of special value include the
silver cup given to Stonewall Jackson by his
troops to commemorate the birth of his
daughter, and Confederate Gen. Patrick
Cleburne’s sword, presented to him by his
regiment, the 15th Arkansas. This latter,
DuBose allows, is generally regarded by col-
lectors as one of the three most important
swords of the War and the only one of real
significance still in private hands.

& 4

Au that you see here is really my
dad’s. I mean, he made the collection what
it is today,’’ says DuBose, whose father died
in 1985. ‘‘I remember his hearing about cer-
tain pieces—if it had anything to do with the
American Civil War, he was by God going
to have it.

**For years it was generally understood
that when Dad died the collection was com-
ing to me. And if anything happened to me,
my will read that it was all going to
Washington and Lee. Well, the word on that
leaked out and it got a lot of folks stirred
up down here.”’

20 W&L

That’s not surprising. Most of the leading
citizens of Atlanta knew about what the
DuBoses had stored away in their basement.
And not a few of them had had a personal
tour during one of the many parties on Rebel
Ridge. The senior DuBose had been chair-
man both of the Atlanta Historical Society
and theGeorgia Civil War Centennial Com-
mittee. Any plan to have the collection leave
Atlanta eventually would require more
defensive bulwarks up on Rebel Ridge.

And the federal government, DuBose
knows from experience, has a way of com-
plicating good intentions. A conservative ap-
praisal of the collection’s monetary value
stands at $3 million. Inheritance taxes would
redouble DuBose’s painstaking efforts to
keep the collection together and growing.

DuBose smiles wryly, ‘‘Of course, that
dollar figure doesn’t have a whole lot to do
with reality. I mean, if you wrote me a check
for $3 million, there’s no way in hell that I
could replace these things. Sure, collectors
will pay $20,000-$25,000 for a good Con-
federate uniform these days, but, well, this
one over here belonged to John L. Branch
of Savannah, Ga. He was first lieutenant and
adjutant to the 8th Georgia Regiment and
fell in battle at First Manassas, Va., July 21,
1861. Here’s a photograph of him in the
same uniform. You see, it’s irreplaceable.”’

Meanwhile, the Atlanta Historical Socie-
ty has drawn up plans to accommodate a
proper disposition of the collection. It will
soon begin construction of a new museum

 

that will include a 40,000-square-foot wing
designated for the DuBose material. DuBose
is philosophical. He wants to share his great
fondness for the memorabilia, but more im-
portant for what the collection reveals about
the larger issues of the War.

**The collection tells a story not possible
with words. When people have the oppor-
tunity to examine these historic items, they
will gain an insight into an all-important
chapter of our national history. What you
see here is a little window on that time.
What’s important about these objects is what
they represent about the culture and the
technical sophistication of the era. Modern
technology really took a huge leap forward
with the War. The development of the
telegraph, railroads, observation balloons,
tin cans, rubberized garments, to say nothing
of industry itself, came to have crucial bear-
ing on the outcome of the War.

‘‘Furthermore, if we can make some
small contribution toward instilling the ideals
of preservation in others, then the long hours
devoted to this collection will have been more
than justified. It was never our intention to
wave the ‘Stars and Bars.’ We wanted to
breathe life into a period long gone, one in
fact that we haven’t yet completely recovered
from. But that’s a long story.”’

Merchant nods in agreement, somewhat
sleepily—the hour is quite late. DuBose claps
him on the back, ‘‘Say, Holt, do you own
a Virginia button?’’

Merchant snaps to attention.

Joe McTyre Photography

 

 

 

 

The W&L Gazette

 

Major Honors for Three W&L Faculty Members

 

Stuart wins Guggenheim

Dabney Stuart, professor of English at
Washington and Lee and the author of nine
books of poetry and criticism, is the recipient
of a fellowship from the John Simon Gug-
genheim Memorial Foundation of New
York.

Stuart was one of 273 recipients selected
from 3,421 applicants. The total value of the
fellowships awarded in the 1987 competition
is $6.3 million.

The Guggenheim program is one of the
most prestigious of its kind in the United
States. Guggenheim fellows are appointed on
the basis of distinguished achievement in the
past and exceptional promise for future ac-
complishment. Those selected in the arts in-
clude writers, composers, choreographers,
painters, sculptors, photographers, film-
makers, and video artists.

Stuart’s latest book of poems, Don’t
Look Back, was published in April by the
LSU Press in Baton Rouge (see Bookshelf,
page 28). In that latest volume Stuart uses
five long poems about his family as the focal
point. He plans to use his Guggenheim to ex-
amine further the major themes he addresses
in Don’t Look Back.

A graduate of Davidson College and
Harvard University, Stuart joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1965. He has
also served as instructor in English at the
College of William and Mary, visiting pro-
fessor at Middlebury College, the McGuffey
Professor of Creative Writing at Ohio
University, poet-in-residence at Trinity Col-
lege, visiting poet at the University of
Virginia, and poet-in-residence at the Univer-
sity of Virginia’s master of fine arts program.

Stuart has held editorial positions with
Shenandoah, Poets in the South, and The
New Virginia Review. His poems and other
writings have appeared in a variety of
magazines, scholarly journals, and an-
thologies, including The New Yorker,
Southern Poetry Review, Ploughshares, The
Southern Review, Modern Language
Quarterly, Poetry, and North American
Review.

In addition to Don’t Look Back, Stuart’s
books are The Diving Bell; A Particular

 

Guggenheim winner Stuart

Place; The Other Hand; Friends of Yours,
Friends of Mine; Round and Round;
Nabokov: The Dimensions of Parody;
Rockbridge Poems; and Common Ground.

Stuart is not the only 1987 Guggenheim
Fellow with Washington and Lee connec-
tions. Sally Munger Mann of Lexington,
former University photographer, is also the
winner of a Guggenheim.

 

Outstanding Faculty Award winners Jarrard (left) and Cline

Two professors win
statewide awards for teaching

Two professors at Washington and Lee
University have received Outstanding Faculty
Awards from the Virginia Council of Higher
Education.

Philip L. Cline, associate professor of ad-
ministration and economics, and Leonard E.
Jarrard, professor of psychology, were
among the 13 faculty members from public
and private colleges and universities
throughout Virginia chosen for the honor.
The 13 winners were selected from a field of
108 teachers nominated by their respective
institutions. W&L was allowed to nominate
two candidates, and both nominees won.

This is the first time the awards have been
made. The 1986 Virginia General Assembly
established the Outstanding Faculty Awards
to recognize excellence in teaching, research,
and public service.

A 1967 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Cline received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from Oklahoma State University. He join-
ed the Washington and Lee faculty in 1975.
He has served as a consultant to the United
Nations, the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, and various private agencies and
companies.

He has published several articles in pro-

 

W&L 21

 

fessional journals and has received two
grants from the National Science Foundation
to develop computer-assisted instruction for
economics courses. He has been a member
of many campus committees and serves as
faculty adviser to approximately 40 students
each year.

Jarrard received his bachelor’s degree
from Baylor University and his master’s and
doctorate from Carnegie Institute of
Technology. He joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1959. He left W&L in 1965 for
a one-year National Institutes of Health
fellowship at the University of Florida Col-
lege of Medicine. From 1966 to 1971 he
taught at Carnegie-Mellon University. He
returned to W&L in 1971 as professor of
psychology and head of the department.

For the past 20 years he has received con-
tinuous funding from the National Science
Foundation for his research on a primitive
part of the brain called the hippocampus. He
has published numerous articles in research
journals, including many papers co-authored
by W&L students. He has received awards
from the Southern Society for Philosophy
and Psychology, the Virginia Psychological
Association, and the Virginia Academy of
Science and is listed in Who’s Who in
America.

Pockrass wins Pinney Prize

Steven F. Pockrass, a Washington and
Lee senior from Indianapolis, has been
named the 1987 winner of the Edward L.
Pinney Prize. |

Awarded by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee, an organization composed of
students, faculty, and administrators, the
Pinney Prize recognizes extraordinary com-
mitment both to personal scholarship and to
the nurturing of intellectual life at
Washington and Lee.

The prize was established in 1982 by the
Washington and Lee faculty in memory of
the late Edward Lee Pinney, professor of
politics at the University from 1963 until his
death in 1980.

Student wins national prize

A Washington and Lee junior has been
awarded third place in Playboy magazine’s
Collegiate Fiction Contest.

J. Marshall Boswell Jr. of Little Rock
won the award for his short story ‘‘Object
Permanence,’’ which first appeared in the
winter 1987 issue of Ariel, Washington and
Lee’s student literary magazine.

The prize carries with it a $200 cash
award and a year’s subscription to Playboy.
Announcement of the winning stories will
appear in the magazine’s October issue.

22 W&L

 

W&L President John D. Wilson (left) and Col. Luke B. Ferguson, professor of military science

Ra

(right), flank 1987 ROTC award winners (from left) Matthew J. Waterbury (Marshall Award),
Andrew M. Gibson (Scharnberg Memorial Award), Paul G. Schlimm (Outstanding Cadet).

Lex McMillan, ’72, appointed
director of development

Lex O. McMillan III, ’72, director of
development at Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland, Va., has been named director of
development at Washington and Lee.

‘*Lex’s qualifications
and talents will be a
tremendous asset to the
University’s development
activities,’’ said Farris P.
Hotchkiss, vice president
for University relations.
‘We look forward to the
contributions Lex will
make to the University
through his experience, energy, and long-
time commitment to higher education.’’

As director of development, McMillan
will have operating responsibility for all of
Washington and Lee’s fund-raising pro-
grams, including the Annual Fund, capital
gifts for endowment and physical facilities,
and deferred gifts designed as income-
retained and estate benefactions.

Of particular importance will be
McMillan’s organization of volunteers in ser-
vice to Washington and Lee and in support
of the University’s financial needs.

An English major at Washington and
Lee, McMillan received his M.A. in English
from Georgia State University and his Ph.D.
in English from the University of Notre
Dame. During his graduate studies, he was
a graduate student assistant at both Georgia
State and Notre Dame and also taught
English at the Holy Innocent’s School in
Atlanta.

 

He was editor of Amicus, a bimonthly
magazine published by the National Center
for Law and the Handicapped, from
February 1978 to September 1979.

In October 1979, McMillan joined
Randolph-Macon as director of public rela-
tions, a position he held until 1983 when he
was named associate director of develop-
ment. He was elevated to director of develop-
ment in 1986.

McMillan is a member of the Council for
the Advancement and Support of Education
and the Virginia Association of Fund-Raising
Executives.

Active in civic and church affairs, he
served as chairman of the parish council and
taught Sunday school at St. Ann’s Church
in Ashland. He was a member of the Ad Hoc
Train Station Committee in Ashland, the
Hanover Arts and Activities Center, and the
125th Anniversary Committee of the town
of Ashland.

McMahon joins admissions staff

Timothy G. McMahon, a June graduate
of the University, has been appointed admis-
sions counselor at Washington and Lee.

McMahon, whose home is Elm Grove,
Wis., majored in journalism and German.
He was elected to membership in both Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He
was a dormitory counselor, a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity, and news
director for WLUR-FM, the campus radio
station.

As admissions counselor, McMahon will
be involved in all areas of the admissions
process. He begins his duties July 1.

 

South African professor
to teach religion

Neville Richardson, a lecturer in the
department of religious studies at the Univer-
sity of Natal in Pietermaritzburg, South
Africa, has been named the Philip F. Hower-
ton visiting professor of religion at the
University for the 1987-88 academic year.

Richardson, who has dual British and
South African citizenship, holds degrees
from the University of Natal, Rhodes
University, and Oxford. In 1977, Richard-
son published The World Council of Chur-
ches and Race Relations: 1960-69.

An ordained minister in the United
Methodist Church, Richardson joined the
faculty at the University of Natal in 1980,
where his field of research is Christian ethics
with particular interest in the relationship
between Christian ethics and the Christian
community.

Richardson visited Washington and Lee
in 1986 when he participated in a symposium
on the campus. While in Lexington, Richard-
son delivered two lectures about South
Africa to Washington and Lee audiences and
also preached a sermon at the Trinity United
Methodist Church.

Richardson will teach four courses dur-
ing the 1987-88 academic year, two on Chris-
tian ethics, one on the religious struggle in
South Africa, and one on modern theology
and political oppression.

New Mexico justice in residence

Mary Coon Walters, a justice of the New
Mexico Supreme Court, was judge-in-
residence at Washington and Lee’s Frances
Lewis Law Center during the law school’s
winter term.

While at Washington and Lee, Walters
examined the way in which judges render
their decisions.

The third judge to hold the position,
Walters was named to the New Mexico
Supreme Court in 1984.

Prior to assuming that position, she was
chief judge of the New Mexico Court of
Appeals.

A graduate of Northern Michigan
University, she received her law degree from
the University of New Mexico.

She has served on several panels and
committees, including the Governor’s Com-
mission on Criminal Justice Planning, the
Governor’s Commission on Status of
Women, the New Mexico Women’s Political
Caucus, the New Mexico chapter of the Na-
tional Association of Christians and Jews,
and the board of visitors of the University
of New Mexico law school.

 

 

Lee McLaughlin
inducted into
Virginia Sports
Hall of Fame

 

Le McLaughlin, who guided Washington and Lee’s football team to the lof-
ty heights of the national small college championship in 1961, has been inducted
into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame.

McLaughlin’s posthumous induction came during ceremonies on April 24 in
Portsmouth, Va., site of the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame, which now includes
seven members with Washington and Lee ties.

When Coach Mac arrived on the W&L campus in 1957, the football program
was still reeling from the 1954 decision to drop athletic scholarships. That deci-
sion and the ensuing controversy did not scare McLaughlin away, however.

‘‘Everybody thought I was crazy coming to Washington and Lee’s
graveyard,’’ he once said. ‘‘But it’s the best school in the country, so how could
I go wrong.’’

Still, there must have been a few moments during his first three seasons at
W&L when McLaughlin wondered whether he had gone wrong. The combined
record of McLaughlin’s first three W&L teams was 4-24. But whatever doubts
he might have had were quickly dismissed in 1960 when his team began its
three-season drive that included 25 victories in 27 games. The 1961 team was
unbeaten and won the Washington, D.C., Touchdown Club trophy as the na-
tional small college champion.

McLaughlin coached at W&L for 11 seasons before he died tragically in
August 1968 in an accident at the summer camp he ran in Rockbridge County.

The legacy of Lee McLaughlin involved far more than the wins and losses
his teams recorded on the football field. His philosophy of college athletics re-
mains as valid today as it was during his coaching career.

‘‘What we take out of [college athletics] is the professionalism, the spectacle
for the crowd’s sake alone,’’ he once said. ‘‘Our boys are playing for the school
and for themselves, and that’s the way it should be.”’

In an editorial at the time of his death, the Richmond Times-Dispatch wrote
that ‘‘[n]o Virginian of his generation, it seems safe to say, did more to build
ideals of high character and true sportsmanship than Lee McLaughlin... .”’

An all-around athlete at Richmond’s John Marshall High School,
McLaughlin was a star tackle at the University of Virginia, where he was cap-
tain of the football team in his senior year. He was drafted by the Green Bay
Packers in 1941 and had an outstanding rookie season before entering the U.S.
Navy in World War II. He won numerous citations for his part in the invasion
of France.

After he came out of the service, McLaughlin began his coaching career at
Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va., where his football teams compiled a
record of 52-21-7, including an unbeaten season in 1953.

McLaughlin’s Hall of Fame plaque was accepted at the banquet by his
widow, Rosa McLaughlin of Lexington. She was accompanied by three of her
children—daughter Nelle Busch and sons Lee and Jim, a 1986 W&L graduate.
In addition, the two men who served as assistants under McLaughlin, Boyd
Williams and Buck Leslie, were in attendance at the banquet along with several
of McLaughlin’s players.

Other Virginia Sports Hall of Fame members with Washington and Lee con-
nections are athlete and coach Cy Young, ’17; basketball star Robert Spessard,
’39; four-sport star Leigh Williams, ’32; legendary coach Cap’n Dick Smith,
?13; football star Walt Michaels, ’51; and Christopher T. Chenery, ’09, who was
a breeder of championship Thoroughbreds, including Secretariat.

 

W&L 23

 

Whose shipment was that?

The line probably had little impact on the
vast majority of the television audience
watching the CBS movie A Special Friend-
ship on March 31. But two viewers in
Glasgow, Va., could scarcely believe their
ears.

In one scene of the made-for-TV movie,
a character tells plantation owner John van
Lew: ‘‘Oscar Wetherhold Riegel’s shipment
is two weeks late.’’ Van Lew clutches his
chest and, within moments, falls dead.

In Glasgow, Oscar Wetherhold Riegel
and his wife, Jane, nearly fell out of their
chairs with surprise and laughter.

Riegel, emeritus professor of journalism
at Washington and Lee, knew the culprit in
this case was none other than his former stu-
dent, Hollywood producer and director
Fielder Cook, ’46, who directed A Special
Friendship.

After composing himself, Riegel compos-
ed a letter to Cook:

‘‘Motion picture history was made last
night,’’ Riegel wrote, ‘‘when another immor-
tal line, comparable with ‘Play it again, Sam’
and ‘Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a damn,’
burst from the screen.

‘*It is ‘Oscar Wetherhold Riegel’s ship-
ment is two weeks late,’ a line of such
awesome potency that it killed John van Lew
on the spot.”’

Now Riegel says he is waiting for Cook’s
next TV production when he expects to hear
Jane Butterworth Riegel’s name intoned and
wonders only who will die when that line is
uttered.

Actually Cook did have another TV film
this spring. He directed the PBS production
of Saul Bellow’s Seize the Day, which was
shown in May.

Sophomore wins scholarship

Deborah E. Hattes, a Washington and
Lee sophomore from Harland, Wis., has
become the fourth W&L student in as many
years to win a full scholarship for a year’s
study at Rikkyo University in Japan.

Hattes will attend the Tokyo school from
September 1987 to July 1988. Washington
and Lee is one of four American institutions
that have exchange programs with Rikkyo,
one of Japan’s top-ranking private
institutions.

At Washington and Lee, Hattes is a
member of the International Club, the
Chinese-Japanese Club, and the Alcohol and
Health Awareness Committee. She is a
reporter for the Ring-tum Phi and serves on
the committee that staged the University’s
mock constitutional convention in May.

24 W&L

 

Shari Anderson named director
of W&L personnel services

Shari L. Anderson, former associate ex-
ecutive director of the College and Univer-
sity Personnel Association, has been named
to the newly created position of director of
personnel services at Washington and Lee.

‘‘We are pleased that
someone with Shari’s
knowledge and_ ex-
perience will be joining
our staff,’’ said Lawrence
W. Broomall, Wash-
ington and Lee treasurer,
in announcing the ap-
pointment. ‘‘Her skills
and talents will be in-
valuable in the creation and operation of a
Washington and Lee personnel office.”’

Anderson, who began her work June 1,
will be responsible for the development and
administration of non-faculty personnel
policies and procedures. She will also oversee
services provided to University employees,
including fringe benefit administration and
counseling, recruitment and employment
processes for non-faculty positions, and posi-
tion and salary classification and
administration.

Anderson joined the College and Univer-
sity Personnel Association in 1984 and most
recently served as associate executive direc-
tor. From 1975 to 1984, she held various
positions with the Medical College of
Wisconsin, including assistant director of
personnel services, manager of employment

J. Nathaniel Hamrick

left) of Fluvanna County, Va., looks over the

and personnel operations, employment
specialist, personnel staff assistant, and
public relations editorial assistant.

Prior to joining the Medical College of
Wisconsin, she was public relations assistant
for St. Luke’s Hospital in Milwaukee.

A native of Valley City, N.D., Anderson
attended the University of Wisconsin at
Milwaukee and Mount Mary College. She
studied in the College and University Person-
nel Association/Central Michigan University
Masters Program in personnel management
in higher education.

W&L receives gifts from banks

Washington and Lee has received gifts of
$50,000 each from three Virginia banks.

Dominion Bankshares, United Virginia
Bankshares, and Sovran Bank made the gifts
for capital improvements at the University.

‘‘We are indeed grateful for the support
shown by these financial institutions,”’ said
University President John D. Wilson in an-
nouncing the gifts.

‘**As we look to our 250th anniversary in
1999, it is essential that we expand and im-
prove our facilities,’’ Wilson continued.
‘‘These acts of generosity will help us great-
ly to realize our goals.”’

Among the projects that will be sup-
ported by the gifts are the construction of
a new performing arts center, the renovation
of an antebellum house on the Front Cam-
pus to become the new admissions office,
and expansion of the University’s computer
facilities.

    

   

  

SS

letters of his great-

grandfather, William B. Pettit, which he has given to the University Library. With him are his
mother, Mrs. J. Nathaniel Hamrick (center), Charles W. Turner, emeritus professor of history

(right), and Dean John W. Elrod (standing).

 

 

Roger Hildreth, ’88, gets his birthday cake—and other rewards

 

When Washington and Lee junior Roger Hildreth cele-
brated his 21st birthday back in March, he thought he
would be without a cake.

‘‘My mom had told me that since her oven was broken
she couldn’t bake a cake for me,”’ he explains.

But Hildreth did get his cake. He even got a party—
although it was not exactly the sort of celebration
customarily associated with 21st birthdays. In this case, the
party was thrown for Hildreth by residents of the
Mayflower, a retirement facility in Lexington.

Since last fall Hildreth and a band of fellow
Washington and Lee students have been paying regular
visits to the Mayflower residents purely on a volunteer
basis.

‘‘This has been the most successful volunteer program
we’ve ever had,’’ says Kathleen Rogers, the Mayflower’s
administrator. ‘‘And Roger has been our most faithful
volunteer.”’

Entirely on his own initiative, Hildreth established the
program at the beginning of the 1986-87 academic year.

‘‘Washington and Lee hasn’t had many real community
service organizations for a long time,’’ says Hildreth, ex-
plaining his motives. ‘‘We come into this town for four
years and then we’re gone. There is often a lot of friction
between the W&L students and the townspeople, and I
wanted to work against that.’’

Hildreth is no stranger to such projects. During his high
school years in Bethesda, Md., he assisted with the Special
Olympics programs, participated as a volunteer in day-care
facilities, and worked with inner-city youth in the
Washington, D.C., area.

Hildreth was, it seems, the perfect candidate to form a
service club at Washington and Lee. In September he began
to round up members. Then he contacted the Mayflower’s

administrator to determine what volunteer work might be
done there to benefit the facility’s 25 residents.

Now each week he and several other students take time
from their studies and other extracurricular activities to —
spend time at the Mayflower. Sometimes they play bingo or
card games. Sometimes they simply provide conversation.
Hildreth has even brought along an electronic keyboard for
some musical entertainment. In December he and his
volunteers gave the Mayflower residents a Christmas party
and sang carols with them. ‘‘The residents really ate that
up,’’ he recalls.

Still in its initial stages, the program has attracted only
a few volunteers. Yet, Hildreth says, ‘‘as small as the pro-
gram is, I think it is having a big effect on the people
there.”’

Hildreth’s effect on the residents could hardly have
been clearer when they decided to help him celebrate his
birthday.

‘*Fveryone here loves him,’’ says Rogers.

Once his organization is more firmly established,
Hildreth hopes it can expand to include additional com-
munity service projects. This spring he planned to team up
with members of Washington and Lee’s Women’s Forum
to participate in a youth program sponsored by the local
mental health clinic.

But in the meantime he was content with his weekly
visits to the Mayflower. ‘‘I think I really give the people
there something to look forward to each week,’’ he says.
“‘T find that very heartwarming.”’

_ Adds Rogers, the facility’s administrator: “‘Roger
Hildreth has made a dreary winter much, much brighter for
our residents.’’

And, in return, the Mayflower residents helped make
Roger Hildreth’s 21st birthday much brighter, too.

 

W&L = 25

 

 

Heatley appointed director
of career services

N. Rick Heatley, director of the career
planning and placement office at Wake
Forest University, has been named director
of career services at Washington and Lee.

Announcement of
Heatley’s appointment
was made by Lewis G.
John, dean of students at
the University. Heatley
will assume his post July
1. He replaces Michael
Cappeto, who left W&L
in 1986 to become dean

of students at Harvey
Mudd College in Claremont, Calif.

As director of career services, Heatley
will provide leadership for the policy
development and program administration of
a comprehensive program of career counsel-
ing and placement. His responsibilities will
include individual and group counseling,
career information, job hunting workshops,
management of recruiting, outreach ac-
tivities, and service as pre-law adviser.

Heatley received his B.A. degree from
Baylor University and earned the M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees in classics from the Universi-
ty of Texas at Austin. In 1971 he was award-
ed a Fulbright-Hayes Fellowship to Italy.

He is a member of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa national leadership society and is active
in numerous professional associations, in-
cluding the College Placement Council and
the Association of Pre-Law Advisers.

At Wake Forest, he was associate of
academic administration from 1977 to 1983
and also taught classical languages. He was
appointed to his current position in 1983.

 

Davis challenge grant funds
program in law, commerce

Washington and Lee has received a
$100,000 challenge grant from the Arthur
Vining Davis Foundations of Jacksonville,
Fla., to fund its new Program for Leaders
in Law and Commerce.

Under the program, business lawyers and
business leaders will present lectures on the
real-world problems they face to students in
the University’s School of Law and the
undergraduate School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

‘‘We can better focus on business activi-
ty and dispute avoidance by bringing in
business lawyers and business leaders for a
few days at a time during the academic
year,’’ said Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of
the School of Law, in announcing the grant.
‘“‘We will ask the visiting lawyers and

26 W&L

 

business leaders to share with us their ex-

perience and insights, including their prob-
lems. In those discussions, we will expect the
lawyers and business leaders to address
ethical issues as well as purely legal or
business issues.”’

The new program will be administered by
Lyman P.Q. Johnson, assistant professor of
law, and Lawrence W. Lamont, professor of
administration.

Johnson’s area of teaching and research
is business law. Lamont’s specialty is
marketing, but he has extensive experience
working with the legal profession and is
widely used as an expert witness.

In addition to serving as guest lecturer in
law and business administration courses, the
visiting lawyers and business leaders will
meet informally with both students and
faculty and will occasionally present public
lectures. They may also participate in the
University’s existing program in pre-
professional ethics, Society and the Profes-
sions: Studies in Applied Ethics, which in-
cludes legal and business components.

‘‘Through the Program for Leaders in
Law and Commerce, our students will gain
an appreciation of how experienced business
people and lawyers seek to prevent prob-
lems,’’ Kirgis said. ‘‘That is a skill too often
slighted in the traditional focus on solving
problems once they have arisen.”’

The Arthur Vining Davis Foundations
provide grants to certain educational,

Workmen give
Ol’ George yet
one more coat
of white paint in
preparation for

| spring.

cultural, scientific, and religious institutions.
The organization’s founder, the late Arthur
Vining Davis, served for many years as presi-
dent and chairman of the board of the
Aluminum Company of America.

Thomas H. Broadus, °59,
addresses FMA chapter meeting

Thomas H. Broadus Jr., ’59, vice presi-
dent and director of T. Rowe Price
Associates, delivered a lecture at the first
meeting of the Washington and Lee chapter
of the Financial Management Association in

- April.

The Financial Management Association
is a professional organization of financial ex-
ecutives, analysts, professors, and students
from around the world. Its purpose is to
bring together students, professors, and
practitioners of finance for their mutual
benefit.

The new Washington and Lee chapter is
one of many student chapters of FMA across
the country. According to Joseph Goldsten,
professor of administration and adviser to
the group, the purpose of the student
chapters is to help provide direction and sup-
port as students interested in finance begin
pursuing their careers.

Broadus is president of the Equity In-
come Fund at T. Rowe Price Associates. He
is a chartered investment counselor and
chartered financial analyst.

he Civil War returned to
Lexington—for one day, at least—in
mid-April when a band of Washington
and Lee students, clad in tattered gray
Confederate uniforms and toting
muskets and bayonets, pitched their
tents at the Liberty Hall ruins.

The encampment was the first
endeavor of the newly reactivated
Liberty Hall Volunteers.

More than a century ago the Liber-
ty Hall Volunteers were regarded as
one of the best-drilled units in the
Confederate army. The unit was part
of the Stonewall Brigade, Company
**T’’ of the 4th Virginia Infantry, and
was composed primarily of students at
what was then Washington College.

Efforts to reorganize the group
began when three W&L law students
discovered their mutual interest in
historical reenactment and decided to
form a student organization to par-
ticipate in such events.

‘‘We thought W&L was a perfect
place to do something like this, since
Washington College was one of the
few schools that actually sent a stu-
dent company off to the war, and
since there is so much history in Lex-
ington itself,’’ said John Williamson,
a second-year law student from Mem-
phis, Tenn., and one of the organizers
of the Volunteers.

The unit currently numbers 15 and
is growing steadily. ‘‘Most of the
students we’ve recruited are new to
historical reenactment,’’ Williamson
said. ‘‘But quite a few already had an
interest in the war and in history. It
would probably be difficult to do
something like this at a place like
Brown or Penn, but this is a school
where history is almost ingrained in
the students.’’

Outfitting and equipping the
soldiers have been the greatest
obstacles facing the Volunteers,
because of the prohibitive expense in-
volved. The group has received stu-
dent body funds for the purchase of a
few reproduction weapons, and one
student is assisting by making some of
the uniforms. What the Volunteers do
not have on hand they can usually
borrow from reenactment groups.

The Volunteers meet once a week
for drilling. And, prior to the Liberty
Hall encampment, several of them

 

 

participated in a reenactment at
Shiloh, where they fought as Union
soldiers. ‘‘It’s great to be a Yankee at
one of these things,’’ Williamson ex-
plained. ‘‘They love you because
you’re someone to shoot at.”’

The weekend encampment at
Liberty Hall was the Volunteers’ first
major event as a group. They put up
tents, drilled, and cooked an authentic
meal. ‘‘Basically we wanted to recreate
the typical camp life of the soldiers,”’
said Williamson. ‘‘For instance, I
spent the entire morning making beef
stew.”’

The group was also planning to
participate in a reenactment at New
Market in May and hopes to travel to

Sharpsburg, Md., and Perryville, Ky., .
next year.

‘*It’s enjoyable to try to recreate
what the Southern soldier lived
through,’’ said Williamson, ‘‘although
we don’t really come close. What they
went through was 20 times worse than
anything we would ever experience.
We can always ride off to get a ham-
burger or whatever. They couldn’t.

‘*It’s important for people to
remember the contributions of their
forebears,’’ he added. ‘‘I think few
people recognize the significance of
this history, and good reenactors are
invaluable teachers. The W&L campus
needs to understand the heritage and
legacy of the school.’’

W&L

The Bookshelf

 

Recent Books by Washington and Lee Authors

 

Blood Relations
By Bernard Feld, 69
(Little, Brown and Company)

When a policeman in a small Alabama
town stumbles over the body of a female
murder victim on a lonely, isolated road,
Nick Phillips is sent out to cover the story.
It is a routine assignment for the Birm-
ingham newspaper reporter. Or so it seems.

But the story does not end when Phillips
files his account and before long he is drawn
into a tangled web of money, power, and
murder in the New South.

In a race against time, Phillips pulls all
the pieces together, discovering a web of
crime and complicity that touches every level
of society, forever changing his life.

A thrilling mystery on one level, Blood
Relations is also a novel of morals and
manners.

An English major during his under-
graduate career at Washington and Lee, Ber-
nard Feld has been an advertising copywriter
and an English professor at the University
of Alabama in Birmingham. He is a widely
published short story writer. Blood Relations
is his first novel.

Presidents and Deans
By Francis Pendleton Gaines Jr., ’39
(University Associates)

Francis Pendleton Gaines Jr., whose
father was Washington and Lee’s president
for almost 30 years, writes his memoirs from
the perspective of one who has devoted a
lifetime to higher education.

A former university president himself,
Gaines’s recollections of growing up in the
Lee House during his father’s W&L
presidency will be of special interest to
Washington and Lee alumni.

Throughout those early years Gaines was
immersed in the academic life. The Lee
House, as he recalls, was constantly filled
with visitors—a veritable who’s who of
leaders in the worlds of politics, business,
religion, journalism, and, especially, educa-
tion. The educators—presidents, deans,
professors—were Gaines’s favorite visitors,
and he often engaged them in conversation

28 W&L

 

\e

Bernard Feld

about such subjects as endowment, cur-
riculum, and athletics.

It was hardly any wonder that Gaines
chose to become an educator. As he writes
in the introduction: ‘‘It would have been dif-
ficult to have the educational experience I
did, live in the house haunted by Lee’s ghost,
inhabit a lovely area shrouded in history, and
not attend the University of Virginia’s
graduate school, majoring in Southern
history. I was fascinated by the whole idea
of history and education. From early
childhood I suspected what I wanted to do
with my life: I thought I would be a college
administrator as well as a professor of
history. My career goals were established.”’

Gaines spent 35 years in his chosen field
during which time he was associated with the
University of Virginia, Birmingham-
Southern College, the University of
Houston, Southern Methodist University,
Wofford College, the Ford Foundation, and
the University of Arizona.

A Broadcast News Manual of Style
By Ronald H. MacDonald
Professor of Journalism

(Longman Inc.)

Before joining the Washington and Lee
journalism faculty in 1969, Ronald Mac-
Donald had a distinguished career as a

broadcast journalist in Boston, Vermont,
and Roanoke. His current manual is design-
ed to given broadcast newswriters a guide to
style, format, and usage.

In the introduction, MacDonald writes
that the volume is ‘‘presented primarily as
a usage guide, although [there are] sections
on style, page formats, punctuation, editing
and the more technical aspects of getting
words on paper.”’

The manual also contains information on
the wire services and appendixes that include
such topics as patient conditions, state
capitals, nations of the world and capitals,
a list of area codes and their respective states,
a code of ethics, and sections on the Federal
Communications Commission and libel and
privacy.

MacDonald previously published Print
Broadcast First Amendment Parity: A
Bibliography and the Virginia Placename
Pronunciation Guide for the Associated
Press.

Don’t Look Back
Dabney Stuart
Professor of English
(LSU Press)

Dabney Stuart’s poetry in Don’t Look
Back does look back. But it looks forward,
too, as the author recalls central people and
emotions from his past and integrates them
into a search for personal wholeness in the
present.

The poems in this 64-page volume display
a chronology of psychological growth: from
childhood consciousness, through adolescent
jealousy and repression, to adult acceptance
and grief.

In his poetry, Stuart honors a network
of family members, calling up the richness
of their lives and making room for them in
his.

Don’t Look Back is Stuart’s ninth book.
Among his other volumes of poetry are
Common Ground, The Other Hand, and
Round and Round: A Triptych. In April, the
same month in which this latest book was
released, Stuart won a Guggenheim (see page
21 for details).

Alumni News

Glee Club, University Chorus Perform for Alumni on Northeastern Tour

he Washington and Lee Glee Club and
University Chorus provided musical enter-
tainment to alumni in the Northeast in April.

As part of its annual spring tour, the
55-member choral group gave concerts in
such diverse surroundings as the Old Pine
Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia and the
Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, N.J.

The students also performed in New
York City at the Yale Club and in Boston
at Payne Hall on the Harvard campus before
concluding their tour with an appearance in
Montreal.

Alumni chapters in Philadelphia, Nor-
thern New Jersey, and New York held post-
concert receptions for the touring Glee Club
and Chorus, whose members stayed with
alumni from the Philadelphia and Northern
New Jersey chapters during their stays in
those areas.

Gordon Spice, associate professor of
music and director of the two ensembles, said
the tour was one of the most successful ever.

Bert Schewel, ’41, received the 1987
Lynchburg Citation, awarded annually by
the Lynchburg chapter. Schewel is president
of the Lynchburg-based Schewel Furniture
Co. The chapter presented the citation to
Schewel in April during its annual banquet,
which featured music by Southern Comfort.
Schewel was the recipient of a Distinguish-
ed Alumnus Award from the University last
spring.

Alumni Admissions Program committees
in 21 cities held receptions in April for high
school students who have been accepted in-
to the University’s Class of 1991.

Prospective students and their parents
were invited to meet alumni and, in some in-
stances, representatives from the University
in the following cities: Atlanta; Memphis;
Richmond; Tampa; Norfolk; Baltimore;
Washington, D.C.; Houston; Birmingham;
New Canaan, Conn.; Chicago; Dallas;
Nashville; Roanoke; Jacksonville; Louisville;
Orlando; San Francisco; Philadelphia;
Springfield, N.J.; and New Orleans.

 

 

 

 

Ss

NEW YORK—Alumni who sang in the W&L Glee Club renew acquaintances with director Gor-
don Spice in New York. From left, Page Kelley, ’78; Billy Reed, ’85; Tom Maguire, *86; Spice;
Eric Kolts, ’°82; Gary Arthur, ’74; John Risch, ’80.

 
    

The University Chorus performs at Baltusrol Golf Club in New Jersey.

PALM BEACH—Sandy Smith and her son,
Brian, at the Palm Beach chapter reception.
Sandy’s husband, Skip Smith, 64, ’67L, is
chapter president.

LYNCHBURG—Bert Schewel, 41, is shown
during the Lynchburg chapter’s meeting at
which he was awarded the Lynchburg Cita-
tion.

W&L 29

 

    

ORANGE COUNTY—Gathering for the Orange County chapter’s
meeting are (from left) Karen and Paul Brower, ’68, and Sandra and

Bob Jensen, ’71.

at Thompson’s Singapore home.

New chapter presidents

Several chapters have recently elected
presidents for 1987:

Atlanta: Robert M. Balentine Jr., ’79;

Lynchburg: Stuart C. Fauber, ’70;

Richmond: John F. Watlington, ’72;

Los Angeles: Kevin T. McFadden, ’79;

New Orleans: Jeffrey J. Christovich, ’81.

Other spring gatherings

Assistant alumni director Jim Farrar, ’74,
attended receptions held by the Palm Beach,
Gulf Stream, and Fort Lauderdale chapters
in mid-February. Farrar also accompanied

30 =W&L

FORT LAUDERDALE—Getting together at a meeting of the Fort
Lauderdale chapter were, from left, Donald Cartwright, ’72, chapter
president; Winston Barker, ’27; and Stuart Faison, ’44.

SINGAPORE—David J. Hansen, °84, (right) visited
Thompson, ’66, (left) and his wife, Toni, and their daughter Kimberly

  

    
   

i

     

a

with James

LOS ANGELES—Kevin McFadden, ’79, (left) took over recently as
president of the Los Angeles chapter. From left, McFadden, ’79, his
wife, Ilene, and Tammy and David McLean, ’78.

PALMETTO—Two of the leaders of the Palmetto chapter are (from
left) Claude Walker, ’71, the chapter’s AAP chairman, and T. Patton
Adams, *65, mayor of Columbia.

TIDEWATER—Enjoying the annual oyster roast held by the
Tidewater chapter are (from left) David Greer, ’80; Mike Devine, ’80;

 

     
  

7
a

a en "

Peyton Via, ’76; and Chuck Lollar, *77.

President John D. Wilson to the meeting of
the Palmetto chapter in March.

Milton Colvin, professor of politics, was
the featured speaker at March luncheons in
Dallas and Austin.

Alumni director Dick Sessoms made a
California trip in March, visiting the Los
Angeles and Orange County chapters. He
returned to the East Coast in time for the
Tidewater chapter’s annual oyster roast.

President Wilson and Farris P. Hotch-
kiss, vice president for University relations,
were the special guests at an April dinner
meeting of the Louisville chapter.

Alumni in Roanoke had their annual

spring reception in April while the
Charleston, W.Va., chapter held an April
dinner meeting that featured remarks by
assistant alumni director Farrar.

In late April the Charlotte chapter heard
a presentation from Caulley Deringer, ’86,
alumni staff associate. Also in April Deringer
and Frank A. Parsons, ’54, executive assis-
tant to the president, attended a luncheon
meeting of the Richmond chapter.

Deringer’s parents, Hila and Hurtt Der-
inger, were the hosts at a reception for alum-
ni and W&L lacrosse players following the
Generals’ game with Washington College in
April.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$160.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$175.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

1930

Virgil C. Jones is retired and living in Centreville,
Va., after spending his life as a writer. He has nine
books in print, including several best sellers. One
of his works, Ranger Mosby, was recently

republished.
1933

Dr. W. Todd DeVan was recently honored by the
York County (Pa.) Medical Society for practicing
medicine for 50 years. He lives in Hanover, Pa.

1934

Dr. Leslie A. Faudree retired from his medical
practice and is living in Bassett, Va. He is enjoy-
ing travel, golf, and gardening.

Donald S. Levinson has retired from business and
is now spending most of his time in Palm Beach,
Fla.

George D. McClure of Dallas boarded his yacht
for Florida and the Bahamas in April 1987 and
planned to visit a number of alumni in Florida
before returning in June.

1936

Dr. Martin Z. Kaplan is retiring from the active
practice of pediatrics on June 30. He lives in

Louisville, Ky.
1937

Charles S. McNulty Jr. is a real estate consultant
in Roanoke. He remembers how, back in 1936,
Dr. Martin of the W&L economics department ad-
vised him that ‘‘some people are not cut out for
college.’’ Despondently, McNulty gave up. He was
60 years old when, in 1973, he received his A.B.
from the University of Northern Colorado. By that
time, he had already received five professional
designations in real estate appraising—all about
economics, he proudly adds.

A. Atlee (Bud) Radcliffe, retired vice president of
Farmers and Merchants National Bank in -
Frederick, Md., was inducted into the YMCA
Alvin G. Quinn Sports Hall of Fame at a banquet
on Feb. 7, 1987. Radcliffe, who played on the var-
sity tennis team at W&L, compiled an outstanding
record during 50 years in state and regional ten-

nis competition.
1938

John H. Shoaf traveled through the Caribbean this
past winter and spent several days visiting with
Guillermo Moscoso, ’40, in San Juan, Puerto
Rico. Shoaf notes that he and Moscoso compared
notes since each had been in the U.S. Army and
had also spent their careers in international trade
and relations. Shoaf is honorary consul of
Guatemala in Texas while Moscoso is honorary
consul of Monaco in Puerto Rico.

W. Saxby Tavel is still selling real estate in Naples,
Fla. He has taken recent trips to Portugal and
Alaska and is planning a trip through the Canal
Zone this year. Tavel spends his summers in
Salisbury, Vt.

W&L 31

 

 

1940

Jackson G. Akin retired in December as the senior
member of the firm of Rodey, Dickason, Sloan,
Akin & Robb in Albuquerque, N.M. He is now
counsel to the firm after 40 years of active prac-
tice. Akin practiced extensively in the state and
federal courts with special emphasis on complex
and catastrophic litigation. Among the many
achievements of his legal career, he drafted the
joint medical-legal plan for screening malpractice
cases, which was adopted by the New Mexico Bar
Association and the state’s medical society and has
received national acclaim.

Charles R. (Dish) Disharoon has sold his interest
in Cook, Disharoon & Greathouse in Oakland,
Calif., and is now a consultant for Petersen &
Associates Insurance Brokers in Orinda, Calif.

Robert L. Gayle is still farming in Stafford Coun-
ty, Va., where he has been for the past 42 years.
His farm is outside Fredericksburg, Va.

Dr. Robert S. Hutcheson Jr. has been retired from
his internal medicine practice the past two years.

After 49 years three former Graham Dormitory
roommates held their own reunion in Jacksonville,
Fla., recently. Steve Leonard, Elliot W. (Hap)
Butts Jr., ’42L, and Roland S. (Popie) Freeman
were reunited by Leonard’s daughter, Ann, who
arranged a dinner for the three of them.

1941

Richard M. Herndon and his wife spent a very
pleasant two weeks in November on a tour of New
Zealand.

Charles G. Thalhimer, retired vice chairman of
Thalhimer Brothers Inc., has been named chair-
man of the Campaign for Virginia Commonwealth
University. The campaign is a four-year fund-
raising effort, during which its leaders hope to raise

$52 million.
1942

William G. Barrows is a real estate broker with
Snare Associates Ltd. in Dorset, Vt.

L.J. (Jack) Fisher lives at Litchfield Plantation in
Pawleys Island, S.C., where he is vice president
of textile operations for Willman Inc. Fisher has
four sons, three of whom attended W&L, and
seven grandchildren with an eighth due this fall.
He and his wife, Louise, will celebrate their 43rd
wedding anniversary in October.

Beverley W. Lee Jr. and his wife, Kay, are still
enjoying retirement. They have great fun with their
children and grandchildren during the summer at
Kill Devil Hills, N.C.

J. Aubrey Matthews of Marion, Va., recently
received a service citation during Charter Day
observances at Emory & Henry College for his ex-
emplary leadership in civic affairs. Matthews
retired last August as chief judge of Virginia’s 28th
Judicial Circuit.

Robert C. Petrey retired as a vice president of
Eastman Kodak after 42 years. His duties as alder-
man for the city of Kingsport, Tenn., and his other
civic duties are keeping him as busy as before

retirement.
1943

Richard J. Bromley reports he is enjoying retire-
ment and recently returned from two weeks in sun-
ny Hawaii. He is planning a trip to Alaska for the
fall.

Albert D. Darby retired last July from the Times-
News in Cumberland, Md., where he had worked
since 1950. During his career, he covered a varie-

32. W&L

ty of beats, including the courthouse, county com-
missioners, Board of Education, and school
system. He also shared city editor responsibilities.

Dr. Conrad L. Inman Jr. will retire in July after
42 years of active practice in oral surgery. He lives

in Baltimore.
1944

Dr. Charles W. Broders is a professor of surgery
at Texas A&M College of Medicine and a staff
surgeon at Scott and White Clinic in Temple,
Texas. Broders’ son, William Counsellor, is a
senior at the University of Texas at Austin.

Edmund A. Donnan Jr. and his wife spent last
summer in southern France in a hill town east of
Avignon. This year they plan to revisit Scotland
and Switzerland. They live on Owl Ranch in

Wilson, Wyo.
1945

William H. (Gus) Naylor has sold his Houston
mortgage business and retired. He has since been
traveling, raising cattle, and playing golf.

Dr. Robert M. Sinskey (See 1982).

1946

Robert J. Smith is a judge in the juvenile and
domestic relations district court in Henrico Coun-
ty, Va. He and his wife have two grandchildren,
courtesy of their son, Robert J. Smith Jr., ’76, who
owns Bob’s Camera Stores in the Richmond area.
His daughter, Nancy Gayle Smith, teaches school
in Henrico County. Smith is on the board of
deacons at River Road Baptist Church.

Rev. L. Roper Shamhart is archdeacon of Queens
and rector of St. Mark’s in Jackson Heights, N.Y.
He is also serving as chairman of the task force
on pastoral ministry in the AIDS crisis for the
diocese of Long Island.

Judge J, Aubrey Matthews (See 1942).

While E. Page Preston has retired from the
Virginia Beach law firm of Preston, Wilson, and
Crandley, Gilbert H. Wilson is still in active prac-
tice with that firm, which specializes in civil

litigation.
1949

Henry M. Barker retired from his position with
the Knox County (Tenn.) government in March.
He continues to live in Knoxville but plans to do
some traveling. His wife, Marilyn, died last
September.

Charles R. Treadgold has his own insurance agen-
cy, which employs two of his sons, one of whom
is Charles II, ’81. An article by Treadgold about
banks’ attempts to write credit-related property
and casualty insurance was published in the
February 1987 issue of the A.M. Best Co.’s month-
ly magazine, Best’s Review. He lives in Glenmont,
N.Y.

Kenneth H. Wacker retired in February after 29
years with the government products division of
Pratt & Whitney, United Technologies Corp. He
lives in Hobe Sound, Fla.

Gilbert H. Wilson (See 1948).

1950

Rev. Henry C. Barton Jr. is rector of the Episcopal
Church of the Advent in Spartanburg, S.C., where
he has been since 1981. He was previously with
parishes in Virginia Beach, Birmingham, and Co-
lumbia, S.C.

Robert E. R. Huntley, former Washington and Lee
president, has been appointed chairman and chief
executive officer of Best Products Co. Inc. Huntley
had previously been president and chief operating
officer of the Richmond-based company.

Franklin S. (Lin) Pease Jr. is a self-employed
manufacturers’ representative in home furnishings.
He lives in Chatham, N.J., where he is a
Republican committeeman for his district and has
been chairman of various work areas over the years
for Chatham Methodist Church.

Edward K. Shelmerdine IV returned in September
from a memorable one-year sailing trip to the
Bahamas aboard his 42-foot cutter. He is now back
at work with Boeing Computer Services and lives
in Chadds Ford, Pa.

Robert F. Silverstein has retired from politics after
20 years and is now working full time in his in-
surance agency. He lives in Charleston, W.Va.

Robert J. Smith (See 1946).

D. Ray Leister plans to enter ‘‘semi-retirement”’
g ~~ in July 1987 from Boddie-
Noell Enterprises Inc. in
Rocky Mount, N.C., where
he has worked for 18 years,
first as vice president of
training and most recently as
vice president of public rela-
tions. He and his wife, Jane,
plan to relocate to the small
coastal town of Swansboro,
N.C., where they promise plenty of seafood for
old friends and teammates who want to stop by.

  

James M. Gabler does civil trial work in Baltimore
and in his spare time has started a second career
as author and publisher. His second book, How
To Be a Wine Expert, will be published in
September 1987 by Bacchus Press Ltd.

Albert J. Perry is now manager, minerals, for the
Otter Group of Public Mining Cos. in Australia
and director of Associated Gold Fields NC, an ex-
ploration and gold mining company with holdings
in Australia and Fiji.

955
James M. Gabler (See 1953).

William B. Poff, a partner in the law firm of
Woods, Rogers & Hazlegrove of Roanoke, was
elected to the board of governors of the American
Bar Association at the ABA meeting in New
Orleans in February and will assume the office at
the annual meeting in August. One of 17 members
of the board, Poff represents a district composed
of Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C.

1956

Dr. Frank S. Pittman III practices psychiatry and
family therapy in Atlanta and teaches around the
country and the world. His new book, Turning
Points: Treatment of Families in Transition and
Crisis, was recently published by W. W. Norton.
Pittman spent the spring teaching in Washington,
New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, Prague,
and Stockholm.

George J. Tzangas recently published a book,
Junkyard Princess, a true story about his son and
his dog. Tzangas is an attorney with Tzangas,
Plakas & Mannos in Canton, Ohio.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Bernard Schaaf Jr., a

 

daughter, Gisele Helene, on Feb. 2, 1987, in Wind-
sor, Ontario. Schaaf practices urology in
Lafayette, Ind.

Lawrence A. Atler is chairman of the board of
directors of the Rocky Mountain states region of
the Anti-Defamation League and was recently
elected an associate national commissioner and co-
vice chairman of the National Community Services
Committee of ADL. He also continues his law
practice and business interests in real estate and
restaurants in Denver.

Thomas C. Broyles is a partner with the law firm
of Kaufman & Canoles and is chairman of the
board of Commerce Bank. He lives in Virginia
Beach.

Robert E. R. Huntley (See 1950).

1958

Samuel C. Dudley was recently made senior in-
vestment partner of the investment firm of Branch,
Cabell & Co. in Richmond.

1959

Evan J. Kemp Jr. has been nominated by Presi-
dent Reagan to serve as a member of the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Kemp is head of the Disability Rights Center, one
of the nation’s leading advocacy groups for the
physically and mentally disabled. He is the first
person from the disability rights movement to be
nominated to the Equal Employment Opportuni-
ty Commission. Previously, he has been an
attorney-adviser with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and worked in the Office of the Chief
Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service.

1960

Charles S. Chamberlin, his wife, and two
daughters live in Simsbury, Conn. He is vice presi-
dent of Aetna Realty Investors in Hartford, Conn.

Franklin S. (Tew) DuBois Jr. was appointed direc-
tor of marketing consultation, brokerage opera-
tions, for the Life Insurance Marketing and
Research Association (LIMRA) in January 1986.
LIMRA is an insurance trade association, whose
membership is primarily composed of individual
life insurance companies located throughout the
U.S., Canada, and the entire free world.

Joseph E. Hess has been elected to a third six-year
term as general district court judge of the 25th
Judicial District of Virginia by the General
Assembly of Virginia. The term began in February.
Hess’ district includes Lexington.

Dr. Sandy C. Marks is project director for the den-
tal intern/resident program at the Christian
Medical Institute of the Kasai in Kananga, Zaire.
Marks and his wife are participants in a short-term
mission program of the Presbyterian Church.

1961

Robert J. O’Brien recently published a new book,

. Thunder in the Valley, with
Doug and Evelyn Knapp.
The book, nearing its third
printing, chronicles the
Knapps’ life as bush mis-
sionary agriculturists in Tan-
zania, where they made
hunger relief breakthroughs,
baptized 40,212 converts in
nine years, and gained news
coverage from such media as Time magazine and
the Associated Press. O’Brien is developing and
directing a system of overseas correspondents for

 

 

 

mored Cavalry Regiment in Bamberg.

 

Bavaria Alumni Chapter Formed

 

Capt. Anthony R. Ierardi, ’82, reports the formation of W&L’s Bavaria Alumni
Chapter. “‘It was surprising to us alumni on military duty here in West Germany
that even though there are a relatively small number of commissionees from W&L
each year, there seem to be quite a few of us here,’’ says Ierardi. For proof, he in-
cluded a photograph that shows (from left) Capt. Eamon G. Cassell, ’78; Ierardi;
and Ist Lt. Jeffrey B. Gwynn, ’84. All are assigned to the 2nd Squadron, 2nd Ar-

 

 

 

the Southern Baptist Foreign Mission Board,
which has personnel in 109 nations.

Dr. Charles S. Wassum III has moved to
Springfield, Va., and works at the Children’s
Hospital and Providence Hospital in Washington,

D.C.
1962

Mason T. New is the managing general partner for
the Richmond investment firm of Branch, Cabell
& Co.

Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton III is a trustee of
Hinsdale, Ill., where he lives. He will serve until
1989. He has been a litigation attorney with
Winston & Strawn since 1965. Walton is president
of the W&L Alumni Association.

1963

Daniel Blain Jr. has retired from teaching to
manage properties in Villanova, Pa.; Point St.
Lucie, Fla.; and Chester, Nova Scotia. His son
Travis, a freshman at W&L this year, represents
the seventh successive generation of Blains to at-
tend Washington and Lee, the longest continuous
connection of any family with the University.

Theodore A. Doremus was recently elected presi-
dent of the Stetson University National Alumni
Association. He attended law school at Stetson in
Deland, Fla. He lives in Washington, D.C.

Joseph E. Hess (See 1960).
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. John M. Samet, a son, Jef-

frey Leo, on Dec. 11, 1986. The family lives in
University City, Mo.

John F. Bartlett has joined the law firm of Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker as of counsel to the
firm’s Stanford, Conn., office. He will be with the
business law department. Prior to joining Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker, Bartlett was in
private practice and was formerly executive vice
president of Merrill Lynch Huntoon Paige Inc. in
New York.

John D. (Jack) Eure Jr. is in the private general
practice of law in the city of Suffolk, Va. His
daughter, Ann Dalton, is a freshman at Mary
Baldwin; his son, David, is a junior at Nansemonid-
Suffolk Academy. Eure currently serves on the
board of directors of Hampton Roads Chamber
of Commerce and is getting in shape to enter, for
the fourth time, the Worrell 1000 Catamaran Race
from Fort Lauderdale to Virginia Beach.

Consider W. Ross is senior vice president and
group credit officer for the International Group
and Financial Institutions Group at the Northern
Trust Co. in Chicago. He has held the position
since last July.

Henry M. Sackett III is a partner in the Lynch-
burg, Va., law firm of Edmunds & Williams.
Sackett has two sons attending W&L, Henry M.
IV, ’88, and Matthew C., ’90.

1965

Richard K. Kneipper is chairman of the financial
institutions section and a member of the advisory
committee of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue. He is
also founder and chairman of the board of
FilmDallas Inc. He and his wife, Sherry, and their
two children, Ryan, 6, and Lindsey, 3, live in
Dallas.

W&L 33

 

J. Lindsey Short of Houston has become a charter
member of the American chapter of the Interna-
tional Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers. He is
president of the Texas chapter of the American
Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers.

L. Wayne Townsend is still practicing law full time
in Richmond but notes that he stays away from
litigation since he finds it counterproductive as a
rule.

Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton III (See 1962).

1966

Jack L. Baber recently joined Korn/Ferry Inter-
national as vice president and partner in its
Houston office.

Dr. David E. Fleischer released his second book,
Techniques of Therapeutic Endoscopy, in March.
He is associate professor of medicine at
Georgetown University.

Richard S. (Sandy) Harman is living in New York
City, where he is a member of the New York Stock
Exchange. He is managing partner of R.S. Har-
man & Co. and managing partner of Raffles
Associates. He and his wife, Michelle, have a
daughter, Jamie, and a son, Matthew.

Kenneth O. McGraw, acting chair and associate
professor of psychology at the University of
Mississippi, is the author of a new textbook,
Developmental Psychology, published by Harcourt
Brace Jovanovich. It is dedicated ‘‘to the teachers
who taught me and the schools where I learned.’’

1967

John F. Bartlett (See 1964).
J. Lindsey Short (See 1965).

James A. Tyler Jr. was recently elected vice presi-
dent of Scott & Stringfellow Inc. in Richmond.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael G. Morgan, a
daughter, Rebecca Gavin, in April 1986. She joins
two sisters, Sarah, 10, and Anne, 2, and a brother,
Daniel, 7. The family lives in Stamford, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven R. Saunders, a
daughter, Erin Farrell, on Jan. 3, 1987. She joins
a sister, Keira, 6. The family lives in Alexandria,
Va.

John M. Lee, his wife, Robin, and two daughters,
Sophie and Elissa, made a trip last summer to
Perth, Western Australia, stopping in Hawaii and
Sydney on the way over and New Zealand and Fiji
on the way back.

Howard L. Mocerf recently returned to Chicago
and rejoined the law firm of Borovsky, Ehrlich
& Kronenberg, where he will devote most of his
time and attention to labor and employment law

and litigation.
1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark L. Favermann, a
daughter, Evan Stephanie, on March 15, 1987. The
family lives in Chestnut Hill, Mass.

Richard H. Bassett was recently promoted to
lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army. In June he
begins a new assignment as an electronic warfare
officer for Central Army Group in Heidelberg,
Germany.

Peter C. Manson Jr. lives in Virginia Beach with
his wife, Lauren, and their daughter, Meredith,
7, and son, Hunter, 2. He is a partner in the
Virginia Beach law firm of Pender & Coward,
where he specializes in defense of civil actions.
Manson is the current president of the Virginia
Association of Defense Attorneys.

34. W&L

Edward H. Morris was recently named manager
of marketing and transportation for both the
transmission and gas processing divisions of Cabot
Corp. He lives in Amarillo, Texas.

Gary D. Silverfield formed a new subsidiary com-
pany, Landcom Hospitality Management Inc., to
manage seven hotels (including six Holiday Inns).
He opened a new branch office in Orlando, Fla.,
for shopping center development. His home is in
Jacksonville, Fla.

1970
MARRIAGE: William P. McKelway Jr.and Leigh
Ann Horton of Florence, Ala., in January 1987.
The couple lives in Richmond, where McKelway
is a reporter for the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James A. Meriwether, a
son, Andrew R., by adoption on Jan. 16, 1987.

Rev. Richard W. Capron is the new assistant direc-
tor for alumni relations at Drew University in
Madison, N.J.

J. Don Childress is one of four national operating
partners for Trammell Crow Co. in Atlanta. He
and his wife have four children, F.D., 11,
McKinley, 5, Trevor, 4, and newborn Stuart
Elizabeth.

W. Alvin Childs Jr. is currently president of the
Shreveport Chamber of Commerce. He and his
wife, Lisa O’Neal, have three children, William,
5, Lex, 3, and Claire, 1. Childs has been involved
in real estate development for the last 15 years and
is co-owner of a 12-unit Mr. Gattis franchise
operation.

Dr. William M. Gottwald has been named direc-
tor of pharmaceutical ventures for Ethyl Corp. In
this position, Gottwald’s responsibilities will in-
clude coordination between Ethyl and the newly
acquired Nelson Research & Development Co. of
Irvine, Calif., and related activities. A Trustee of
Washington and Lee, Gottwald lives in Richmond.

Harry L. Salzberg has accepted a position in in-
vestor relations with Vanderbilt Gold Corp. in Las
Vegas, Nev., where he and his wife, Alice, have

moved.
1971

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Cleveland, a
daughter, Melonye Neiley, on Feb. 12, 1987. She
joins two brothers, Christopher Arthur, 5, and
Cameron Maxwell, 4. Cleveland and his family live
in Spartanburg, S.C., where he is a partner and
vice president of Cleveland-White and Associates.
He is a commercial real estate developer.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John L. P. Sullivan Jr.,
a son, William Peyton, on Dec. 29, 1986. The
Sullivans live in Alexandria, Va.

Dr. D. Downs Little has moved to Lynchburg,
Va., and has begun solo practice in primary care
internal medicine. He also has an interest in
preventive medicine.

QO. Lee Graham was recently made general part-
ner at the investment firm of Branch Cabell & Co.
in Richmond.

Edward F. (Ted) Judt is living in Richmond, where
he is in the bond business with the investment
banking firm of Craigie Inc.

1972

T. Jeffrey Driscoll has been appointed head of the
middle school at the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr,
Pa. Previously he had served as assistant director
of admissions at Shipley.

Charles R. Hofheimer has become associated with

Prudential Bache Securities where he is vice presi-
dent for investments. He and his wife, Diane, have
two daughters in college and a son in junior high.
The family lives in Virginia Beach.

Stephen B. Thompson is now assistant vice presi-
dent and district sales manager for the Nashville
office of Corroon & Black Benefits Inc. He is also
a major in the U.S. Army Reserves and holds the
position of battalion executive officer.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Pearce C. Johnson, a son,
Francis Pearce, on Nov. 2, 1986. He joins a sister,
Dearing, 4. Johnson is chairman of the science
department and coaches lacrosse at St. Anne’s-
Belfield School in Charlottesville, Va. He also
works with the Piedmont Environmental Council.

Thomas Hal Clarke Jr. was recently promoted to
executive vice president at Georgia Federal Bank,
where he has served as general counsel and
manager of the loan closing department. Clarke,
his wife, Nan Robertson Clarke, and their four
children live in Atlanta.

John W. Hammond is mayor pro tem of Mariet-
ta, Ga. He is in his second term on the Marietta
city council. He is also in the private practice of
law and a member of the advisory board of North
Central Georgia Law Enforcement Academy
representing the Georgia Municipal Association.

Peter C. Manson Jr. (See 1969).

E. Bryson Powell, president of Midlothian Enter-
prises Inc., has been elected chairman of the board
of Leadership Metro Richmond for 1987-88. LMR
is a yearlong program designed to develop the
leadership potential in the Richmond area.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Averill C. Harkey, a
daughter, Lauren Averill, on Sept. 3, 1986. They
live in Charlotte.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven E. Leftwich, a son,
John Christian, on March 24, 1987. He joins a
brother, Stephen, and a sister, Charlotte. The
family lives in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Joel L. Legin, a daughter,
Meredith Vaughan, on Dec. 17, 1986. They live
in Lutherville, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James G. Rogers, a son,
Samuel Baird, on March 24, 1986. He joins two
brothers. Rogers was recently elected vice presi-
dent of finance of Philadelphia Presbytery Homes
Inc. in St. Davids, Pa.

William D. Adams IV continues to work as a
paralegal for the Roanoke firm of Johnson, Ayers
& Matthews. He and his wife, Deborah, have just
moved to a new house with their twin sons.

Rev. Jack E. Altman III, his wife, Peggy, and their
sons, Charlie and Heyward, have moved back to
Savannah, Ga., where Altman is_priest-in-
residence at St. John’s Episcopal Church.

G. William Austin III has been named a partner
in Kilpatrick & Cody, a large Atlanta-based law
firm. Austin specializes in the area of product safe-
ty and product liability and is a member of the
Atlanta and Georgia bar associations. He is a
volunteer lawyer for indigent clients through the
Atlanta Volunteer Lawyers Foundation.

David M. Bradt Jr. has been admitted to part-
nership in the Arthur Andersen Worldwide
Organization, which provides professional services
in accounting, audit, tax, management informa-
tion consulting, and professional education to
clients through 219 offices in 50 countries.

 

 

Washington and Lee’s White House
Alumni Chapter had some additions, sub-
tractions, and alterations in recent
months.

Benjamin F. Jarratt, °82, who had
been director of the White House News
Summary, was promoted to assistant
press secretary in the White House Office
of the Press Secretary.

Bruce D. Wilmot, ’80, has been pro-
moted from deputy director to director
of the White House News Summary,
replacing Jarratt.

 

White House Alumni Chapter changes

T. Kenneth Cribb Jr., ’70, was ap-
pointed assistant to the President for
domestic affairs. He is responsible for im-
plementing the domestic agenda for the
White House and has direct liaison with
the Office of Cabinet Affairs, the Public
Liaison Office, and the Office of Policy
Development. He was previously
counselor to Attorney General Edwin
Meese. .

Jay Werner, ’85, left the White House
News Summary staff to become press
secretary to Rep. Inhofe of Oklahoma.

 

 

1975
MARRIAGE: Thomas B. Ramey III and Gina
McQuay of Sarasota, Fla., on Sept. 27, 1986.
Ramey was also promoted to general manager of
KLTV in Tyler, Texas, from KTRE-TV in Lufkin,
Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Cook, a son,
Peter Dawson, on June 2, 1986. Cook recently
joined the Washington, D.C., office of Willkie,
Farr & Gallagher, where he will continue to
specialize in banking and consumer finance law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Floyd, a son,
Michael Robert, on March 17, 1987. Floyd is
senior systems support specialist with UNISYS
Corp. (formerly Burroughs) in Atlanta. He has
been with the company for more than 11 years.
His wife, Betsy, is a programmer analyst with
Digital Equipment Corp. The family lives in
Decatur.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Kerr, a son, Lee
Preston, on March 5, 1987. Kerr is still practicing
law as a shareholder/director of the Dallas law
firm of Locke, Purnell, Boren, Laney & Neely.

Frederick L. Dame is director of wine for
Restaurants Central (Sardine Factory, The Rogue,
The Gold Fork, and the San Simeon Restaurant)
and is cellar master of the Sardine Factory in
Monterey, Calif. Dame is one of five Americans
who have earned the prestigious master sommelier
degree in the London-based Guild of Sommeliers.
Throughout the world, only 45 members of the
guild have earned this honor. He has also receiv-
ed numerous other awards and been featured in
several publications for his work in the field.

Edmond B. (Ted) Gregory III of Frederick, Md.,
was recently honored by the Maryland Jaycees in
recognition of his leadership ability and civic
achievement. He is president of the auditing firm
of Linton, Shafer and Co. and past president of
the Frederick Chamber of Commerce; and is ac-
tive in many professional and civic organizations.

Channing J. Martin recently completed his term
as president of the 550-member Richmond Jaycees
and was named one of the top 60 chapter
presidents in the nation by the U.S. Jaycees. He
is a partner in the litigation section of Williams,
Mullen, Christian & Dobbins, a Richmond law

firm.
1976

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter D. Lami, a son,
Robert Cabbel, on Jan. 6, 1987, in Huntsville, Ala.

Lami is president of the Novus Group, with of-
fices in Huntsville, Raleigh, N.C., and Atlanta.

David S. Alter II of Shepherdstown, W.Va., was
recently appointed to serve as one of 22 child ad-
vocates in the state of West Virginia. In this posi-
tion, Alter will play a key role in obtaining child
support payments from parents who do not pay.
He will serve Morgan, Berkeley, and Jefferson
counties.

Nan Robertson Clarke (See 1973).
Thomas H. Clarke Jr. (See 1973).

Philip L. Hanrahan practices equine and
bankruptcy law with Stites and Harbison in Lex-
ington, Ky. He graduated from W&L law school
in 1986.

Neil L. Johnson will publish a photography book
and text on China for children in late 1987. His
publisher is Simon & Schuster.

J. Michael Luttig recently joined the law firm of
Davis, Polk & Wardwell in Washington, D.C.
Prior to joining the firm, Luttig worked as a
special assistant to Chief Justice Warren Burger
of the U.S. Supreme Court.

1977
MARRIAGE; John D. Rosen and Lois Leftwich
of Dallas on Sept. 13, 1986. They live in New York
City.

MARRIAGE: William H. Sands and Julie Watts
Stephens of Tampa, Fla., on Feb. 21, 1987. Sands
is vice president with Rheinauers Inc., and his wife
works for GTE Leasing. They live in Winter
Haven, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Camillus L. Avent, a
daughter, Caroline H., on Jan. 5, 1987. The family
lives in Atlanta.

William J. Cople III was awarded an LL.M. in
international and comparative law from the
Georgetown University Law Center. He is an at-
torney with the Washington, D.C., office of the
Atlanta law firm King & Spalding.

Louis B. Hackerman joined Intel Scientific Com-
puters, a division of Intel Corp., in September 1986
as its first field applications engineer supporting
the IPSC Concurrent Computer, the world’s first
commercial hypercube computer. Hackerman
works as a pre-sales technical sales representative
responsible for the eastern half of the U.S. and
Canada. He lives in Gaithersburg, Md.

Daniel E. Westbrook joined the legal department

at American Airlines in March 1986. Westbrook
and his wife, Penni, and their two sons, Christian,
6, and Adam, 4, live in Dallas.

1978
MARRIAGE: William D. Brown and Patricia
Lawler in November 1986. They live in St. Paul,
Minn., where he is a corporate financial analyst,
and she is a chiropractor.

MARRIAGE: I. Bruce Cauthen III and Anne
Doyle in June 1986. Cauthen received his MBA
from the Darden School of Business at the Univer-
sity of Virginia in 1984 and is an account executive
with The Martin Agency in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Michael T. Cleary, a
daughter, Brenna Lyn, on Jan. 4, 1987. Cleary has
been the Coca-Cola USA district manager for
western Pennsylvania and West Virginia since
November 1985.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gus A. Fritchie III, a son,
Gustave Alexander IV (Alec), on May 16, 1986.
Fritchie was made a partner with the New Orleans
law firm of Montgomery, Barnett, Brown, Read,
Hammond & Mintz.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark W. Hampton, a
daughter, Alyssa C., on Aug. 28, 1986. The family
lives in St. Joseph, Mo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Clay Kingsbery, a son,
Edward Waits, on March 26, 1987. They live in
Rumson, N.J.

James A. Barnes has become chief political cor-
respondent for The National Journal. His primary
responsibility will be to report on the 1988
presidential election.

Berthenia S. Crocker has formed a partnership for
the general practice of law under the name of
Crocker & Long in Lander, Wyo.

R. Holman Head has been
promoted to manager of the
marketing department for
O’Neal Steel Inc. in Birm-
ingham, where he will be
responsible for all marketing
efforts for the company.

 

Jon P. Leckerling has been named vice president,
law, and is corporate secretary of the Armstrong
Rubber Co., a Fortune 500 company that has
become a worldwide supplier of automotive
materials, components, and systems. He lives in
Madison, Conn.

William C. Porth Jr. has been made a partner in
the Charleston, W.Va., law firm of Robinson and
McElwee. Porth’s principal areas of practice have
been public utility law and general litigation. He
lives in Charleston.

Michael M. M. Wallis has formed a new law firm,
Mosley, Jacobus & Wallis, in which he is a part-
ner. The firm is in Melbourne, Fla.

Lt. William G. Welch has left Grumman
Aerospace Corp. and returned to active duty with
the U.S. Navy as a flight instructor for Fighter
Squadron 101 at NAS Oceana, Va.

1979
MARRIAGE: William R. Mauck Jr. and Nancy
Fox Cunningham on March 7, 1987, in Roanoke.
Mauck is a lawyer with the firm of Williams,
Mullen, Christian & Dobbins in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Bruce H. Vail and Carol Eborn
Taylor in Brooklyn, N.Y., on March 7, 1987. In
attendance was W&L classics professor Herman
W. Taylor, ’57, the bride’s father.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Paul W. Gerhardt, a
WE&L 35

 

daughter, Catherine Stewart, on March 11, 1987.
They live in Norfolk.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William M. Moffet, a
daughter, Erin Maureen, on Jan. 4, 1987. She joins
a brother. They family lives in Abingdon, Va.

BIRTH: Thomas A. Wiseman and Elizabeth
Devine Wiseman, ’81L, a daughter, Allison Doher-
ty, in January 1987. Tom is involved in medical
malpractice litigation with the law firm of
Doramus, Gideon & Trauger in Nashville, Tenn.

John A. Craig has just moved to Virginia Beach
after spending two years in Hong Kong and
Taiwan. He has left U.S. Lines and is now a finan-
cial consultant with Merrill Lynch.

Jim H. Guynn Jr. has changed law firms and is
now associated with Parvin & Wilson in Roanoke.
The firm specializes in construction law, but
Guynn’s specialty is general litigation.

Philip L. Hinerman has been promoted to cor-
porate counsel of Leaseway Transportation Corp.
in Beachwood, Ohio. He and his wife, Elizabeth,
live in Shaker Heights, Ohio. Leaseway is one of
the six largest transportation services companies
in the country.

Richard F. Huck III practices law with the St.
Louis firm of Evans & Dixon. He and his wife,
Kathryn, have a son, Richard Dalton.

Channing J. Martin (See 1975).

Stephen Y. McGehee, his wife, Ruth, and their two
sons, Teddy and Ben, moved from Walpole to
Needham, Mass., where he is a senior relationship
manager and vice president in the large corporate
New York Division of First National Bank of
Boston.

1980

MARRIAGE: Elizabeth B. Ashton and David
Hecksel in Hawaii on July 4, 1986. They are both
computer scientists with IBM in San Jose, Calif.

MARRIAGE: Edward H. Brown and Debra Ann
Young on April 5, 1986, in Atlanta. Richard A.
Yeagley, ’80L, was in the wedding party. Brown
is a tax attorney with the Atlanta law firm of
Schreeder, Wheeler & Flint.

MARRIAGE: Adrian Williamson III and
Katherine Kouloubis on Feb. 14, 1987, in New
Orleans. His father, Adrian Williamson Jr., ’50,
served as best man. Williamson is a second-year
resident in surgery at Tulane University Hospital,
where his wife is a registered nurse in the inten-
sive care unit.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Martin F. Bowers, a son,
Alexander Martin, on March 30, 1987. The fami-
ly lives in Strafford, Pa., outside Philadelphia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Goetz B. Eaton, a
daughter, Elizabeth Seabrook, on Jan. 25, 1987.
The family lives in Cambridge, Mass.

David L. Church recently joined Provident Na-
tional Bank in Philadelphia as a banking officer
in the real estate finance division. His respon-
sibilities include commercial construction lending
in parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware,
and Maryland. Church and his wife, Laura, live
in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Angus E. Finney is an associate with the Baltimore
law firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes & Shriver in the
litigation department, where he specializes in con-
struction, bankruptcy, and commercial tort
litigation.

John F. (Rick) Hope has moved back to Richmond
from Orlando, Fla., and is now a purchasing agent
for Ferguson Enterprises Distribution Center.

36 | W&L

 

| Craig Waddell, ’85, once opened plen-
| ty of holes for Washington and Lee run-
ners as an offensive guard for the
Generals’ football team.

Although he is now an ocean away
from the scenes of his former football ex-
ploits, Waddell is managing to combine
his athletic talents with his current assign-
ment for the Southern Baptist Foreign
Mission Board.

Waddell is in Linz, Austria, where he
is working with the Baptist Church as part
of a two-year program for recent college
graduates.

He has found time to play American
football for the Linzer Rhinos. And
although his performance on the football
| fields of Austria is a good outlet for him,
| Waddell also uses the opportunity to fur-
| ther his work for the church.
| *‘The guys [on the team] have no in-
| terest in church,’? Waddell told Martha

Skelton, associate editor of The Commis-

sion, the magazine of the Foreign Mission

 

Frank D. MacDonald has joined the tax depart-
ment of the Charleston, W.Va., office of KMG
Main Hurdman.

Raymond C. Nugent finished law school at
William and Mary in May 1986, where he was
president of the Student Bar Association. He is
currently an attorney with the law firm of
Stackhouse, Rowe & Smith in Norfolk and lives
in Virginia Beach.

Robert W. Pearce Jr., who is a vice president with
Financial Asset Management Inc., recently in-
itiated and advised on a $10 million bank merger.
He also runs a mirror manufacturing plant in
Virginia. He and his wife, Pam, live in Charleston,
S.C.

Hugh L. Robinson II is now a regional marketing
officer with the First National Bank of Maryland.
He is responsible for the bank’s commercial
marketing and new business development efforts
in the western Baltimore County marketplace.

Robert L. Walter received his LL.M. from
Georgetown Law Center and is currently a law
clerk to Judge Horace T. Ward, district court
judge for the Northern District of Georgia.

Daniel E. Westbrook (See 1977).

MARRIAGE: Richard B. Silberstein and Carol S.
Richards on Jan. 10, 1987. Members of the wed-
ding party included classmates Kevin R. Bell,
Thomas K. Coates, and Alex V. Richards as well
as William J. Law and Louis G. Close III, both
*82. Many Delta Tau Delta members attended.
Silberstein received his chartered financial consult-
ant designation (ChFC) in October from the
American College in Bryn Mawr, Pa., and is now
senior associate with the insurance and employee
benefit firm of Franklin/Morris Associates Inc.
He and his wife will be living in Baltimore.

Waddell opening holes in Austria

  

Board of the Southern Baptist Conven-
tion. ‘‘They want to know the differences
m between Baptists and
Catholics; why acountry |
that is 90 percent |
* Catholic needs mis- |
sionaries.

“I don’t say ‘mis-
_sionary’; it comes out |
negative to them. I sayI |
was invited by the church to bea worker. |
It has led to myriads of conversations |

about what Baptists believe.’’

Waddell, a native of Hampton, Va.,
is the son of a Baptist minister, Jack
Waddell of New Market Baptist Church
in Hampton.

**Being a Christian isn’t a religion,”’
Waddell says. ‘‘It’s a life. Everything I
do should fit into that.’’

And that includes continuing to open
holes for runners. The only difference is
that his teammates now have names like
Diesenberger and Thurnhofer.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William L. Abernathy, twin
sons, Drew and Charlie, on July 9, 1986, in
Frankfurt, Germany.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey H. Gray, a
daughter, Amy Leigh, on Feb. 19, 1987, in
Virginia Beach.

Lawrence J. Davis was recently promoted to vice
president in charge of the short-date Euro dollar
desk at Fulton Prebon (USA) Money & Foreign
Exchange Brokers in New York City.

Walter E.M. Hibbard has announced his can-
didacy for the Democratic nomination as the War-
ren County, Va., chief prosecutor. Hibbard has
served as assistant commonwealth’s attorney.

David B. Irvin is an associate with the law firm
of Thomas & Fiske in Richmond.

Richard S. Morrison completed a degree in music
after spending four years working and studying
in Barcelona, Spain. He is currently working on
his Ph.D. in musicology at the University of Pitts-
burgh, where he is a teaching assistant.

William Cope Moyers recently moved from Dallas
to Northport, N.Y. He is general assignments
reporter for Newsday on Long Island, N.Y.

Patrick M. Robinson is a banking officer at
Chemical Bank in New York City in the banking
and corporate finance division.

Douglas T. Webb has been promoted to executive
vice president and general manager of Webb &
Sons Inc. in Dallas. He formerly served as vice
president of sales and marketing.

Elizabeth Devine Wiseman (See 1979).

MARRIAGE: Harold R. Bohiman and Allyson
Kennedy on Jan. 3, 1987, in Houston. Classmate
Joseph A. Paletta was his best man, and Glenn

 

 

C. Wilmar, also ’82, was an usher. Bohlman
graduated from the University of Houston Col-
lege of Optometry and is practicing at Moncrief
Army Hospital in Fort Jackson, S.C. His wife is
a fourth-year optometry student. They live in Co-
lumbia, S.C.

MARRIAGE, J. Preston Covington III and Mary
B. Wilson on Oct. 25, 1986. Groomsmen includ-
ed classmates Jack Wells, David G. Fischer, Jef-
fery M. Walter, and Russell H. Stall along with
S. Brad Vaughn Jr., 83, and Michael A. Burnette,
°79. The family lives in Columbia, S.C.

Samuel N. Allen recounted his experiences in the
boxing ring in an article published in a February
1987 issue of New York magazine. Allen is a
securities lawyer with the Wall Street firm of
Brown & Wood. When he decided to get back in
shape last year, he wound up working out in
Gleason’s Gym, known as the home of countless
championship fighters. Allen’s article, ‘‘Pinstripe
Pug,’’ details not only his training but his triumph
in a fight on the Wall Street Charity Fund card
at Madison Square Garden.

James B. Andrews III is working for CBOT, a
small company that manages financial futures ac-
counts in Chicago, where he lives.

James D. Brockelman is currently a_ broker
marketing associate with Putnam Financial Serv-
ices in Boston. He was married in 1984 and lives
in Ipswich, Mass.

David R. Cordell is an associate with the law firm
of Conner & Winters in Tulsa, Okla.

James B. Haynes III recently received his master’s
degree in mechanical engineering from Georgia
Tech.

Dr. Rudolph Gordon Johnstone III will enter a
pediatrics residency in Greenville, S.C., this sum-
mer. He graduated last year from the Medical
University of South Carolina.

James S. Kaplan trades mortgage-backed securities
for First Union National Bank in Charlotte.

Capt. Douglas R. Linton III recently participated
in ‘‘Roadrunner 87,”’ a corps-level command post
exercise designed to duplicate actual distances dur-
ing combat. The exercise took place in central
Texas and involved some 4,000 soldiers and more
than 2,000 military vehicles.

Nathaniel W. Lovell is traveling around the world.
He recently left the Australia-New Zealand area
for Singapore and has headed for Indonesia.

Alex W. McAlister is now an account manager
with Washburn Financial Printing in Charlotte.

John E. Monroe is a May 1987 graduate of the
University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business
Administration. In August he will join Dean Witter
Reynolds’ corporate finance department in
Atlanta.

Joseph A. Paletta has opened a private law office
in Pittsburgh. In addition, he is currently a public
defender for Allegheny County.

David A. Randall is working for Night Vision &
Electro-Optics Lab at Fort Belvoir, Va., as an elec-
tronic engineer. He is also working on his master’s
in engineering administration at George
Washington University.

Cynthia L. Reed is of counsel to the law firm of
Delaney & Young in Washington, D.C.

Mark G. Rentschler was recently promoted to
plant manager of a new tension leveling facility
for Southwestern Ohio Steel Leveling Co. in
Hamilton, Ohio.

Patricia E. Sinskey will take care of health law
legal affairs for the medical office of her father,
Dr. Robert M. Sinskey, ’45, in Santa Monica,
Calif.

David C. Tyler is new relationship manager for
southeast Georgia for First Atlanta corporate
banking. He lives in Atlanta.

John A. Wells moved to New York City in June
1986. He is communications officer at Interna-
tional House, a residence and program center for
U.S. and foreign graduate students in New York.
Wells lives on Riverside Drive near Columbia
University and walks past Grant’s tomb on his way
to work every day, which, he observes, is a ‘‘cruel
and ironic twist’’ from his undergraduate days.

John A. (Jack) Wells III is serving an internship
in internal medicine at Emory University in Atlan-
ta. He plans to begin an ophthalmology residen-
cy at Emory in July 1988.

James P. Wenke lives in Reading, Pa., and is an
account executive for Aetna Life & Casualty In-
surance, where he markets employee benefit pro-
grams and investment services to employers.

1983
MARRIAGE: C. DeWitt Caruthers and Nonie

Bruechner on Jan. 3, 1987, in Shreveport, La.
More than 20 W&L alumni attended the wedding.

MARRIAGE: Daniel M. Einstein and Elizabeth
Ard on Feb. 22, 1987. Einstein is treasurer of
Rosenfeld-Einstein & Associates, a full-service in-
dependent insurance agency in Greenville, S.C.

Dewey James Bailey III graduates from Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia in June 1987 and
will begin a three-year residency in internal
medicine at the Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond in July.

William M. Bell III is leasing, managing, and
developing commercial real estate with a family
firm, Bell Properties Inc., in Memphis, Tenn. He
and his wife, Betsy, live in Memphis.

John E. Buttarazzi is a research associate with the
domestic policy group of the Heritage Foundation
in Washington, D.C., where he concentrates on
financial public policy issues such as banking
deregulation and the sale of the federal loan port-
folio. He is also completing his MBA at George
Washington University.

Dr. Joel A. Dunlap graduated in May from the
Medical University of South Carolina, where he
was a member of the Alpha Omega Alpha honor
medical society. He will be at St. Mary’s Hospital
and Medical Center in San Francisco for a one-
year transitional internship and will begin a
radiology residency at Baylor Medical College in
Houston in July 1988.

Daniel J. Fetterman was recently awarded the first
national prize in the Nathan Burkan Memorial
Competition for his article on the subject of
copyright law. He will be clerking for Judge
Ellsworth A. Van Graafeiland of the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit during the 1987-88
term of the court.

Ist Lt. Keith E. Goretzka completes his tour of
duty at Fort Jackson, S.C., in July 1987 and will
relocate to Louisville, Ky., to pursue a master of
divinity degree at the Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary.

David W. Haddock received the MBA from Co-
lumbia University in real estate and finance in
January 1987. He is working with Sarsfield Inter-
national, a New York-based real estate investment
firm.

Dr. Kenneth W. Johnstone graduated in May from
the Medical University of South Carolina and
plans a one-year transitional internship in Green-
ville, S.C., before going on to an anesthesiology
residency at Vanderbilt in July 1988. He married
Anne Perkins last July.

1984

MARRIAGE: James A. (Chip) Skinner III and
Lisa Anne Roaden of Nashville, Tenn., on April
19, 1986. Groomsmen included classmates James
L. Fay Jr., Jeffrey W. Maddox, and Emery EIl-
inger III along with Robert S. Griffith III, ’83,
and J. Thad Ellis II, ’82. Skinner is a commercial
loan officer with Nashville Citybank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Shepherd III,
a son, Thomas Banks IV, on Feb. 7, 1987. They
live in Jackson, Miss.

John Cleghorn has moved to the business desk of
The Charlotte Observer. He had previously work-
ed in the newspaper’s Statesville, N.C., bureau.

Melville P. Cote Jr. is a political/environmental
activist with the League of Conservation Voters
of New England. He lives in Manchester, N.H.

J. Robert Cross Jr. has been promoted to manager
of construction cost control for Hecht’s, a divi-
sion of May Department Stores. He is in charge
of capital budgeting for new store projects and ma-
jor remodels. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

Jack R. Dent is currently assistant secretary and
manager of deposit administration with South
Carolina Federal Savings Bank in Columbia, S.C.

Paul W. Gerhardt (See 1979).

John E. Harrison III is a copy editor in the
newsroom of Source Telecomputing Corp., an
electronic information service in McLean, Va. He
lives in Falls Church, Va.

Lee H. Heimert is working for Britches of
Georgetowne, a men’s clothing store in Owings
Mills, Md.

Glenn L. Kirschner received the ‘‘AmJur Award’’
from the American Jurisprudence Publishing com-
pany for the highest grade in the wills, estates, and
trusts class at the New England School of Law in
Boston, where he is nearing completion of his
studies. Kirschner has also earned dean’s list
honors, and was recognized as a New England
Scholar.

Paul E. Levy was recently admitted into the Ph.D.
program in industrial/organizational psychology
at Virginia Tech. He also presented a paper on self-
esteem and reactions to feedback at the annual
convention of the APA during 1986. Levy plans
to deliver a paper on goal choice and performance
at the 1987 convention.

Roland J. Simon has moved to Fulda, West Ger-
many, from Luxembourg as production specialist
for a subsidiary of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.

Michael E. Singer completed his master’s degree
in international relations at the Maxwell School
in January 1986 and began work in Brussels with
the Commission of European Communities almost
immediately upon receipt of his degree. He is cur-
rently working on his Ph.D. at the London School
of Economics. Singer also visited Japan during
August 1986.

Richard C. Swagler has been named night city
editor of the Tampa Tribune.

Douglas W. Teague has moved to Connecticut and
is teaching English at Kent School. He spends his
summers working toward a master’s degree at the
Bread Loaf School of English in Middlebury, Vt.

W&L 37

 

a member of the board of Sun Olin Co. He was
a member of the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church,
Philadelphia Country Club, and Treasurers Club.
He had a private aircraft pilot’s license and belong-
ed to two pilots’ groups, the Quiet Birdman
Organization and the Aircraft Owners and Pilots

Association.
1956

Albert Carveth Hodgson, an attorney from
Roanoke, died Sept. 23, 1986.

1958

Robert Charles Fonda Jr. died in California on

Nov. 21, 1986.
1960

Leonard Franklin Bryan died Dec. 3, 1986, in Tuc-

son, Ariz.
1962

David Paul Lindecamp died in July 1986 in

Salisbury, Md.
1966

Dr. Gerald Bruce Shively, a dentist in
Chambersburg, Pa., died Dec. 22, 1986. After
graduating from the University of Pittsburgh Den-
tal School, he became a commissioned lieutenant
in the U.S. Naval Reserve Dental Corps. He later
served as a U.S. Navy lieutenant commander in
the Vietnam War. Shively was a member of the
First United Methodist Church in Chambersburg,
Harrisburg Area Dental Society, Pennsylvania and
American Dental Associations, Hershey Dental
Study Club, Kiwanis Club, and Hershey Country
Club.

Faculty

James Holt Starling, professor emeritus of biology
at Washington and Lee, died April 20 at the
University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville.
He was 74.

A native of Troy, Ala.,
Starling received his
bachelor’s and master’s
degrees from the University
of Alabama and his doc-
torate in ecology and
zoology from Duke Uni-
versity.

Starling joined the Wash- __
ington and Lee faculty ©
in September 1942 and taught for a year before
leaving to spend three years as a parasitologist in
the U.S. Army Medical Corps. He was named
coordinator of premedical studies at the Univer-
sity in 1963. In that capacity, he worked especial-
ly closely with those Washington and Lee
undergraduates who pursued medical careers.

He was head of the biology department from
1976 until 1978. He retired from the University in
1983.

Formerly the University marshal at W&L,
Starling was a member of the Virginia Academy
of Science, the Southeastern Association of Ad-
visers for the Health Professions, and the
American Association for the Advancement of
Science. He was the author of several articles for
scholarly journals and conducted research with the
support of National Science Foundation grants.

He is survived by his wife, Nell Lewis Starling
of Lexington; a son, Dr. John Lewis Starling of
Fredericksburg, Va.,; a brother, Marion J. Starl-
ing of Columbus, Ga.; and a grandson.

A faculty resolution in memory of Dr. Starl-
ing will appear in a future Alumni Magazine.

40 W&L

 

 

James William Horne Stewart, professor
of law, died on April 14 in Stonewall Jackson
Hospital 1 in meee He was 63.

: oe A 1952 graduate of
the Washington and Lee
School of Law, Stewart
had taught at his alma
mater since 1957. He is
survived by his wife,
Elizabeth K. Stewart;
three children, James
W.H. Stewart, Mary
Stewart Gilbert, and
losebh Edward Bil Stewart; his mother,
Mrs. Daniel Lucius Stewart of Lexington, Ky.;
one brother; and three sisters.

The law and undergraduate faculties of the
University adopted the following resolution in
tribute to Stewart:

Bill Stewart came to Washington and Lee
as a law student in 1949 after his graduation
from the University of Alabama where he was
a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He received his
law degree in 1952 and would have celebrated
his 35th class reunion this May. He was a
member of the Order of the Coif.

He joined our faculty as assistant professor
in 1953, after a year of study at the Academie
de Droit International, the Hague, and the
Harvard Law School, where he received his
LL.M.

After one year of teaching, Bill left to serve
as law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Hugo
L. Black. Following his clerkship, Bill was
awarded a Fulbright grant for study at the Lon-
don School of Economics. He returned to
teaching as a visiting assistant professor of law
at Southern Methodist University and rejoin-
ed the Washington and Lee faculty in 1957. He
remained on our faculty until his death, being
appointed professor of law in 1966. He also
served as the Distinguished Visiting Professor
at the Mercer Law School, and was a visiting
professor at George Washington University.

 

 

James W. H. Stewart

Like his fellow Alabamian, Hugo Black,
Bill Stewart was a man of strong convictions
tenaciously held. Also like Black, Bill was pas-
sionately concerned with his perception of
justice and right. As a lawyer he devoted his
energies to helping those in the community who
most needed his help. These were not the rich
and powerful, but the common people confus-
ed by the complexities of the tax laws or
frustrated by the working of the bureaucracy.
Usually, he asked for nothing in return for his
services.

As a teacher, Bill treated his students with
care and respect. They were what mattered
most to him about teaching, and he was deep-
ly concerned with bringing them into his pro-
fession thoroughly prepared and committed,
as he was, to justice.

Bill was a man of old-fashioned loyalties—
to his family, to his profession, and to this
University, to which he devoted most of his
adult life. His care for and pride in all genera-
tions of his large family were a major part of
his life. His beliefs in what was right for the
law school and his love for the traditions of
Washington and Lee were strongly maintain-
ed and forcefully expressed. During his last
illness, Bill, characteristically, continued to talk
and worry about the students, courses, and
school he had left. He kept on teaching as long
as he could, after it had become an obvious
effort for him to do so. He hoped above all
to be able to return in the fall and take his place
again in the classroom. It was not to be.

Bill Stewart did not try to change the world.
He welcomed the good and accepted the bad.
He worked with what was given him, tending
his gardens, nurturing his students, and using
his legal talents for the benefit of his friends
and neighbors.

Bill will be missed by the clients he helped,
the students whose lives he touched, and by his
colleagues, who extend their sympathy to his
family.

 

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

EDITOR:

If I might, I would like to offer a few words
“‘from the field’’ in reaction to the recent article
concerning Uncas McThenia’s work with the
homeless in Lexington (March/April, 1987).

Simply put, this Washington and Lee graduate
was absolutely impressed by Mr. McThenia’s ef-
forts and greatly encouraged by his example of ser-
vice. One of my recurrent fears for the University
is that her definition of success will go the way of
the world rather than of our patron saint, General
Lee. By this I mean that the General was forever
cognizant of the needs of those around him and
was dedicated to the good of his fellow citizens.

Not a man of great wealth, only of great compas-
sion. An immortal man.

Uncas McThenia, by his example, nurtures that
precious spirit of service and emboldens the rest
of us to do the same. We should be very proud
of such men, for they are the heart of our Univer-
sity. Uncas, my brother, I salute you.

KEITH E. GORETZKA, ’83
Columbia, S.C.

Letters to the editor should be addressed to ‘‘And
Furthermore,’’ The Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

 

Coast Guard as commodore of the vessels that
patrolled the Mississippi River.

Charles Teackle Smith died March 14, 1987. Smith
began working for the Internal Revenue Service
in Baltimore in 1934 and was transferred to
Manila, Philippine Islands, for two years, where
he collected the processing tax on sugar. Upon
returning to Baltimore, he remained with the
Treasury Department for four years. Smith then
went to work in Wilmington, Del., for E.I. du-
pont de Nemours & Co., where he remained until
his retirement in 1969. He served as tax account-
ant and office manager. At the time of his death,
he and his wife lived in Orange City, Fla., where
he was treasurer of his church. Smith had also been
a W&L class agent.

1930

Frank Owen Evans, an attorney in Milledgeville,
Ga., died Aug. 15, 1986. After his years at W&L,
Evans attended the Mercer Law School, from
which he graduated in 1933 and was awarded the
Faculty Medal and the Harrison Prize for the
highest three-year law school average. He began
practicing law in Milledgeville after graduation,
and in 1953 he was appointed federal district at-
torney. He was headquartered in Macon, Ga., and
his judicial district covered some 70 counties.
Evans received numerous career and academic
honors and was past president of Kiwanis and the
Milledgeville Junior Chamber of Commerce. He
was also a leader in the Georgia Republican Par-
ty and was listed in Who’s Who in America.

1931
Thomas Stockton Fox, retired circuit court judge,
died Feb. 10, 1987. He had practiced law in
Roanoke since 1933, when he joined his father’s
law office. Two years later, he joined the U.S.
Forest Service in Roanoke as an attorney and aided
in the acquisition of land for the Jefferson Na-
tional Forest. In 1942, he returned to private prac-
tice. He was appointed to Roanoke Valley’s 20th
Judicial Circuit Court by the 1970 Virginia General
Assembly and in 1973 was transferred to the 23rd
circuit. Fox was president of the Roanoke Bar
Association and the Roanoke Lions Club. He also
served as potentate of the Kazim Shrine Temple.
He was a member of the Roanoke Board of Zon-
ing Appeals and was part-time attorney for the
Roanoke Redevelopment and Housing Authority.

Horace Gooch Jr., retired chairman and founder
of Worcester Moulded Plastics Co. in Worcester,
Mass., died Feb. 25, 1987. He had been selected
to receive the Distinguished Alumnus Award at the
annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May
9, 1987. Gooch held many corporate directorships
in his career, which included Mechanics National
Bank, People’s Savings Bank, Essex Corp.,
Worcester Aviation Corp., and Sun Realty Corp.
He was past chairman of the Society of Plastics
Industry and the Grandparents Council at the
Eaglebrook School and was a member of the Texas
Bar Association, the advisory committee of the
business administration division of Clark Univer-
sity, Worcester Art Museum, and the President’s
Committee at Leicester Junior College. He was a
trustee at Bancroft School, Meadville Theological
School, and Hahnemann Hospital. Gooch received
the Recognition Award for the Plastics Industry
in 1970 and was included in Who’s Who in
America in 1981. He was also a member of the
Tatanuck Country Club and Worcester Club and
was past president of the University Club.

Arthur Carroll Marshall Jr. died Oct. 28, 1986,
in Jacksonville, Fla.

T. J. C. Mayo died Feb. 28, 1987, in Scottsdale,
Ariz. He was owner of J. W. Mayo & Co.

1933

Thomas Stockton Fox (See 1931).

1938

Arthur Henry Alexander, a 25-year veteran
employee with Toledo Scale Co., died March 9,
1987. After three years with Philip Morris Co. in
New York City, Alexander was drafted into the
U.S. Army in 1941. He was an original staff
member in forming Yank, the Army weekly. He
spent four years in sales promotion, public rela-
tions, and circulation in the U.S. and Europe. He
was also awarded several battle stars, including the
‘*Bronze Star Medal’’ in France during 1945. After
the war, Alexander joined Toledo Scale Co., where
he held various sales and field management posi-
tions in Baltimore, Cincinnati, New Orleans, and
Houston. He was a board member of Emeco
Corp. of Hanover, Pa., and American Adhesives
of Brooklyn, N.Y. His civic and charitable affilia-
tions included Boy Scouts of America and the local
American Red Cross chapter, of which he was
president. He was a past member of B.P.O.E.
Elks, American Society of Engineers, Columbia
Country Club, Travelers Protective Association,
and various grocers and weights and measures
trade associations.

Rodger Walter Williams Jr. died Feb. 10, 1987,
in Pooleville, Md. Upon graduation from W&L,
Williams moved to his family farm in Montgomery
County, Md., to raise purebred Aberdeen Angus
cattle. Williams was a member of the Lions Club
and Farm Bureau.

1939

Victor Fielding Radcliffe died Feb. 22, 1987, in
Birmingham, Mich. Radcliffe was president of
Marketing Action Inc., a sales promotion com-
pany primarily for the automotive industry. He
also served on the board of directors of Trio Inc.
and Chateau Sales and was past president of Ac-
cent Productions and a member of the Sales Pro-
motion Executives Association. He was a member
of the Detroit Boat Club, Circumnavigators Club,
English-Speaking Union, Otsego Ski Club, and
Grosse Pointe Memorial Presbyterian Church.
Radcliffe had also served as a W&L class agent.

1940

John Goodwin Alnutt, retired assistant national
editor of the Philadelphia Inquirer, died March
13, 1987, in Camden, N.J. Alnutt joined The Jn-
quirer in 1966, after 15 years on the copy desk of
The Sun. He had taught English at St. Paul’s
School in Baltimore and later at Johns Hopkins.
During World War II Alnutt served as a lieuten-
ant in the Navy. He lived in Cherry Hill, N.J.,
where he was a member of St. Bartholomew’s
Episcopal Church.
194]

Carl Edward Burleson Jr. died June 25, 1986, in
Annandale, Va. Burleson was a retired personnel
officer for the federal government. He had serv-
ed as a sergeant in the U.S. Army during World
War II.

1942

Robert Switzer Loeb, a businessman from Meri-
dian, Miss., died March 5, 1987. He was commis-
sioned in the Navy during World War II, served
aboard destroyers, and saw action in the North
Atlantic and South Pacific. Following the war,
Loeb became chief financial officer and secretary-
treasurer of Alex Loeb Inc., where he remained
for 17 years. He was also a co-owner and manager

of Marks-Rothenberg Co. He joined the faculty
of Meridian Junior College in 1973, where he
taught business courses until his retirement in 1984.
Loeb was a member of the board of directors of
Unifirst Bank and had served on the board of
directors of the Greater Meridian Chamber of
Commerce, American Red Cross, Boy Scouts of
America, and the United Way. He served as presi-
dent of the Temple Beth Israel and as a Sunday
school teacher.

John Calvin Senter Jr. died Nov. 30, 1986, in

Roanoke.
1943

John Paul Blakely, safety engineer for Martin
Marietta Energy Systems, died Nov. 6, 1986. He
had previously served as area manager for publica-
tions and visual arts for the nuclear division of
Union Carbide Corp.’s National Lab in Oak
Ridge, Tenn. Blakely had established a cancer sup-
port group, CancerNet, of which he was a leader.
He was also on the board of directors of the local
unit of the American Cancer Society, from which
he received the ‘‘Outstanding Service Award’’ in
1984. Blakely belonged to a number of profes-
sional organizations, including the Society of
Technical Communication Board of Directors,
American Nuclear Society, American Association
for the Advancement of Science, MENSA, and
American Chemistry Society. Blakely had also
received recognition for his achievement in the
1984-85 Who’s Who in Frontier Science and

Technology.
1944

Robert Randall Giebel, former chief executive of-
ficer of Thomas Wilson & Co. Inc., died Feb. 20,
1987. He left W&L to join the U.S. Army in 1942
during World War II. He attained the rank of cap-
tain after serving two years in the European
Theater with the Combat Engineers. Upon
discharge in 1946, he joined the textile firm of
Thomas Wilson & Co. Inc. as a salesman. He later
became vice president in charge of sales, executive
vice president, and finally president and chief ex-
ecutive officer. He served as president of the Giebel
Foundation, Port Jefferson Lace Co., and
Brookhaven Realty Corp. He had also been
treasurer of the American Importers Association.
Giebel was a member of the Union League Club,
Blind Brook Club, Wee Burn Country Club, Cana-
dian Club of New York, Princeton Club, Land-
mark Club, and Norton Presbyterian Church.

1948

William Earle (Tuck) Tucker, retired attorney
from Hillsborough County, Fla., died March 6,
1987. Tucker had recently retired from the law firm
of Gibbons, Tucker, Miller, Whattley & Stein,
where he had been a trial lawyer for 38 years. He
was a former director and attorney for the First
Ruskin Bank and director of the Sun City Center
Bank, both of Florida. His memberships in
business and social organizations included the Ex-
change Club; Chamber of Commerce of Temple
Terrace, Fla.; Temple Terrace Golf and Country
Club; University Club of Tampa; First Baptist
Church of Temple Terrace; American Association
of Trial Lawyers; and the Hillsborough County,
Florida, and American Bar Associations. Tucker
was listed in Who’s Who in America.

1953
Harry Princeton Davis, an employee of the Sun
Co. Inc. for 53 years, died Jan. 24, 1987. At the
time of his death, Davis was director of benefit
plans and investments for the Sun Co. Previously
he had served as assistant treasurer. He was also

W&L 39

 

a member of the board of Sun Olin Co. He was
a member of the Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church,
Philadelphia Country Club, and Treasurers Club.
He had a private aircraft pilot’s license and belong-
ed to two pilots’ groups, the Quiet Birdman
Organization and the Aircraft Owners and Pilots

Association.
1956

Albert Carveth Hodgson, an attorney from
Roanoke, died Sept. 23, 1986.

1958

Robert Charles Fonda Jr. died in California on

Nov. 21, 1986.
1960

Leonard Franklin Bryan died Dec. 3, 1986, in Tuc-

son, Ariz.
1962

David Paul Lindecamp died in July 1986 in

Salisbury, Md.
1966

Dr. Gerald Bruce Shively, a dentist in
Chambersburg, Pa., died Dec. 22, 1986. After
graduating from the University of Pittsburgh Den-
tal School, he became a commissioned lieutenant
in the U.S. Naval Reserve Dental Corps. He later
served as a U.S. Navy lieutenant commander in
the Vietnam War. Shively was a member of the
First United Methodist Church in Chambersburg,
Harrisburg Area Dental Society, Pennsylvania and
American Dental Associations, Hershey Dental
Study Club, Kiwanis Club, and Hershey Country
Club.

Faculty

James Holt Starling, professor emeritus of biology
at Washington and Lee, died April 20 at the
University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville.
He was 74.

A native of Troy, Ala.,
Starling received his
bachelor’s and master’s
degrees from the University
of Alabama and his doc-
torate in ecology and
zoology from Duke Uni-
versity.

Starling joined the Wash- __
ington and Lee faculty ©
in September 1942 and taught for a year before
leaving to spend three years as a parasitologist in
the U.S. Army Medical Corps. He was named
coordinator of premedical studies at the Univer-
sity in 1963. In that capacity, he worked especial-
ly closely with those Washington and Lee
undergraduates who pursued medical careers.

He was head of the biology department from
1976 until 1978. He retired from the University in
1983.

Formerly the University marshal at W&L,
Starling was a member of the Virginia Academy
of Science, the Southeastern Association of Ad-
visers for the Health Professions, and the
American Association for the Advancement of
Science. He was the author of several articles for
scholarly journals and conducted research with the
support of National Science Foundation grants.

He is survived by his wife, Nell Lewis Starling
of Lexington; a son, Dr. John Lewis Starling of
Fredericksburg, Va.,; a brother, Marion J. Starl-
ing of Columbus, Ga.; and a grandson.

A faculty resolution in memory of Dr. Starl-
ing will appear in a future Alumni Magazine.

40 W&L

 

 

James William Horne Stewart, professor
of law, died on April 14 in Stonewall Jackson
Hospital 1 in meee He was 63.

: oe A 1952 graduate of
the Washington and Lee
School of Law, Stewart
had taught at his alma
mater since 1957. He is
survived by his wife,
Elizabeth K. Stewart;
three children, James
W.H. Stewart, Mary
Stewart Gilbert, and
losebh Edward Bil Stewart; his mother,
Mrs. Daniel Lucius Stewart of Lexington, Ky.;
one brother; and three sisters.

The law and undergraduate faculties of the
University adopted the following resolution in
tribute to Stewart:

Bill Stewart came to Washington and Lee
as a law student in 1949 after his graduation
from the University of Alabama where he was
a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He received his
law degree in 1952 and would have celebrated
his 35th class reunion this May. He was a
member of the Order of the Coif.

He joined our faculty as assistant professor
in 1953, after a year of study at the Academie
de Droit International, the Hague, and the
Harvard Law School, where he received his
LL.M.

After one year of teaching, Bill left to serve
as law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Hugo
L. Black. Following his clerkship, Bill was
awarded a Fulbright grant for study at the Lon-
don School of Economics. He returned to
teaching as a visiting assistant professor of law
at Southern Methodist University and rejoin-
ed the Washington and Lee faculty in 1957. He
remained on our faculty until his death, being
appointed professor of law in 1966. He also
served as the Distinguished Visiting Professor
at the Mercer Law School, and was a visiting
professor at George Washington University.

 

 

James W. H. Stewart

Like his fellow Alabamian, Hugo Black,
Bill Stewart was a man of strong convictions
tenaciously held. Also like Black, Bill was pas-
sionately concerned with his perception of
justice and right. As a lawyer he devoted his
energies to helping those in the community who
most needed his help. These were not the rich
and powerful, but the common people confus-
ed by the complexities of the tax laws or
frustrated by the working of the bureaucracy.
Usually, he asked for nothing in return for his
services.

As a teacher, Bill treated his students with
care and respect. They were what mattered
most to him about teaching, and he was deep-
ly concerned with bringing them into his pro-
fession thoroughly prepared and committed,
as he was, to justice.

Bill was a man of old-fashioned loyalties—
to his family, to his profession, and to this
University, to which he devoted most of his
adult life. His care for and pride in all genera-
tions of his large family were a major part of
his life. His beliefs in what was right for the
law school and his love for the traditions of
Washington and Lee were strongly maintain-
ed and forcefully expressed. During his last
illness, Bill, characteristically, continued to talk
and worry about the students, courses, and
school he had left. He kept on teaching as long
as he could, after it had become an obvious
effort for him to do so. He hoped above all
to be able to return in the fall and take his place
again in the classroom. It was not to be.

Bill Stewart did not try to change the world.
He welcomed the good and accepted the bad.
He worked with what was given him, tending
his gardens, nurturing his students, and using
his legal talents for the benefit of his friends
and neighbors.

Bill will be missed by the clients he helped,
the students whose lives he touched, and by his
colleagues, who extend their sympathy to his
family.

 

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

EDITOR:

If I might, I would like to offer a few words
“‘from the field’’ in reaction to the recent article
concerning Uncas McThenia’s work with the
homeless in Lexington (March/April, 1987).

Simply put, this Washington and Lee graduate
was absolutely impressed by Mr. McThenia’s ef-
forts and greatly encouraged by his example of ser-
vice. One of my recurrent fears for the University
is that her definition of success will go the way of
the world rather than of our patron saint, General
Lee. By this I mean that the General was forever
cognizant of the needs of those around him and
was dedicated to the good of his fellow citizens.

Not a man of great wealth, only of great compas-
sion. An immortal man.

Uncas McThenia, by his example, nurtures that
precious spirit of service and emboldens the rest
of us to do the same. We should be very proud
of such men, for they are the heart of our Univer-
sity. Uncas, my brother, I salute you.

KEITH E. GORETZKA, ’83
Columbia, S.C.

Letters to the editor should be addressed to ‘‘And
Furthermore,’’ The Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

 

psp I

 

Alumni Chapter Presidents

APPALACHIAN—James W. Elliott, °67L, White Elliott & Bundy, P.O. Box 8400, Bristol, VA
24203-8400; 703-466-8400

ARKANSAS—Lee S. Thalheimer, ’73, P.O. Box 70, Little Rock, AR 72203; 501-376-1171

ATLANTA—Robert M. Balentine Jr., ’79, Balentine & Co., Suite 1104, 3490 Piedmont Road,
Atlanta, GA 30305; 404-261-0660

AUSTIN—Richard E. Gray, III, ’73, Gray & Becker, Vaughn Building, 807 Brazos, Austin, TX
78701-2553; 512-482-0061

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—Charles R. Chittum, ’69, Box 78, Churchville, VA 24421;
703-885-1732

BALTIMORE—Arthur P. Caltrider, ’80, Allewalt & Murphy, 805 N. Calvert Street,
Baltimore, MD 21202; 301-727-6205

BIRMINGHAM—Hatton C. V. Smith, ’73, P.O. Box 6221-A, Birmingham, AL 35217;
205-849-5836

BLUE RIDGE—Dr. George Craddock, ’64, 818 Tanglewood Road, Charlottesville, VA 22901
804-293-8224

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Kenneth M. Clayton, ’70, Zimmerman Shuffield Kiser Sutcliffe, P.A.,
P.O. Box 3000, Orlando, FL 32802; 305-425-7010

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Thomas B. Shepherd III, ’84L, Watkins Ludlam & Stennis, P.O. Box
427, Jackson, MS 39205; 601-354-3456

CHARLESTON, S.C.—J. Hagood Morrison, ’79, 19 State Street, Charleston, SC 29401;
803-723-6890

CHARLESTON, W.Va.—Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75, 6 Observatory Road, Charleston, WV 25314;
304-344-3372

CHARLOTTE—D. Stephen Jones, Jr., ’83, First Union National Bank, First Union Plaza,
Charlotte, NC 28288; 704-374-2320

CHATTANOOGA—Paul K. Brock, Jr., ’78, 204 Franklin Road, Lookout Mountain, TN 37350;
615-899-1100

CHICAGO—Timothy F. Haley, ’73, 1426 Asbury Avenue, Winnetka, IL 60093; 312-346-8000

CLEVELAND—Thomas E. Goss, Jr., ’80, McDonald & Company Securities, 2100 Central
National Bank Bldg., Cleveland, OH 44144; 216-448-2370

CUMBERLAND VALLEY—Edmond B. Gregory III, ’75, Linton, Shafer & Co., P.A., 6 West
Second Street, Frederick, MD 21701; 301-663-5122

DALLAS—Lee Halford, Jr., 69, 2700 Stemmons Freeway, Dallas, TX 75207; 214-631-7910

DELAWARE—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 123 King William Street, Newark, DE 19711;
302-451-2186

DELMARVA—Robert B. Taylor, ’70L, P.O. Box 671, Salisbury, MD 21801; 301-749-0161
DENVER—Charles W. Pride, ’72, 1382 South St. Paul, Denver, CO 80210; 303-692-0451

DETROIT—John F. Mozena, ’67, 274 Lewiston Road, Grosse Pointe Farms, MI 48236;
313-884-3700

EASTERN KENTUCKY—Grover C. Baldwin Jr., ’40, °47L, 665 Higgins Ave., Paris, KY 40361;
606-987-1125

John S. Penn, ’73, Bank One Lexington, P.O. Box 575, Lexington, KY 40586; 606-259-9500

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—Gregory B. Crampton, ’69, 3317 Alleghany Drive, Raleigh,
NC 27609; 919-781-1311

FLORIDA WEST COAST—John W. Robinson IV, ’72, Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs, et. al.,
P.O. Box 1438, Tampa, FL 33601; 813-228-7411

FORT LAUDERDALE—Donald B. Cartwright, ’72, 1 East Broward Blvd., Suite 600, Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33301; 305-523-6551

FORT WORTH—Tom L. Larimore, 59, Gandy Michener Swindle Whataker Pratt, 2501 Parkview
Dr., Suite 600, Fort Worth, ‘TX 76102; 817-335-4417

GREENSBORO— William K. Dunker, ’56, 831 W. Cornwallis Drive, Greensboro, NC 27408;
919-373-0495

GULF STREAM—Lawrence B. Craig II, 66, Merritt Sikes & Craig, 111 SW 3rd Street, 3rd Floor,
Miami, FL 33230; 305-371-3741

HILTON HEAD—Lewis W. Martin, ’35, 100 Governors Road, Hilton Head Island, SC 29928;
803-671-4068

HOUSTON—Willard B. Wagner, III, ’70, 5422 Pagewood, Houston, TX 77056; 713-236-4497
INDIANAPOLIS—Mark L. Dicken, ’78L, P.O. Box 44128, Indianapolis, IN 46204; 317-632-5503

JACKSONVILLE—James N. Overton, ’75, Southeast Electronics, 1125 Rosselle Street,
Jacksonville, FL 32204; 904-356-3007

KANSAS CITY—William S. Ridge, ’60, Gateway Chemical Co., 118 S.W. Boulevard, Kansas City,
MO 64112; 417-421-1844

LONG ISLAND—Charles M. Strain, ’73, ’77L, EAB Plaza, Uniondale, NY 11556; 516-741-1111

LOS ANGELES—Kevin T. McFadden, ’79, Lloyds Bank of California, 612 S. Flower Street, Los
Angeles, CA 90017; 213-250-5000

LOUISVILLE—Douglas H. Madison, ’72, Liberty National Bank, P.O. Box 32500, Louisville,
KY 40232; 502-566-2707

LYNCHBURG—Stuart C. Fauber, ’70, United Virginia Bank, P.O. Box 201, Lynchburg, VA 24505;
804-846-5236

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Clay T. Jackson, ’76, Coopers, Love, Jackson Co., P. O. Box 139,
Nashville, TN 37202; 615-329-9000

MID-SOUTH—Thomas F. Baker IV, ’71, 2137 Rolling Valley Drive, Germantown, TN 38138;
901-523-4696
MINNESOTA—Brice R. Gamber, ’64, 18505 Fifth Avenue, N., Plymouth, MN 55447; 612-338-5501

MOBILE—Clifton I. Morrissette, ’83, P. O. Box 1646, Mobile, AL 36633; 205-433-0454
MONTGOMERY-—J. Michael Jenkins II, 64, P.O. Box 91, Montgomery, AL 36101; 205-834-2210

NEW ENGLAND—Mark L. Favermann, ’69, Favermann Associates, 127 South Street, Boston,
MA 02111; 617-542-0510

NEW ORLEANS—Jeffrey J. Christovich, ’81, Christovich & Kearney, 1900 American Bank Bldg.,
New Orleans, LA 70130; 504-561-5700

NEW YORK— John M. Zamoiski, ’74, Entertainment Marketing Services, 280 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y. 10016; 212-532-2050

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Russell L. Hewit, ’74, ’77L, 58 Fairview, Chatham, NJ 07928;
201-654-4540

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, Route 1, Box 236, Shreveport, LA 71115;
318-797-5868

OKLAHOMA CITY—Thomas G. Ferguson, Jr., ’73L, 1821 Woodland Road, Edmond, OK 73034;
405-843-8855

ORANGE COUNTY —Paul A. Brower, ’68, 23961 Calle de la Magdalena, Suite 534, Laguna Hills,
CA 92653; 714-855-1101

OREGON—Joseph N. Moffatt, ’50, 14803 Valencia Drive, Vancouver, WA 98684; 206-256-6223

PALM BEACH—D. Culver Smith, III, ’64, °67L, 1200 Northbridge Centre I, 515 N. Flagler Drive,
West Palm Beach, FL 33401-4307; 305-650-7234

PALMETTO—J. Preston Covington III, ’82, Smith Barney Harris Upham Co., S.C. National
Bank Bldg No. 1170, Columbia, SC 29201; 803-771-8990

PENINSULA—E. Thomas Cox, ’67, 47 West Sandy Point Road, Poquoson, VA 23662-1315;
804-874-1981

PENSACOLA—C. Miner Harrell, ’71, 2403 Tronjo Place, Pensacola, FL 32503; 904-432-7723

PHILADELPHIA—Martin F. Bowers, ’80, 65 Upper Gulph Road, Stratford, PA 19087;
215-564-5300

PHOENIX—Jean L. Baxter, ’80L, Community Legal Services, P.O. Box 211538, Phoenix, AZ
85036; 602-258-3434

PITTSBURGH—John P. Stafford, ’56, 710 Timber Lane, Sewickley, PA 15143; 412-362-6553

PUGET SOUND-—J. Michael Gallagher, ’79, The Old Vinecourt Bldg., 300 Vine Street, Suite 4,
Seattle, WA 98121; 206-467-9526

RICHMOND—John F. Watlington, ’72, Prudential-Bache Securities, 900 E. Main Street,
Richmond, VA 23226; 804-782-2800

ROANOKE—D. Scott Farrar, ’76, Route 4, Box 282, Troutville, VA 24175; 703-563-7793
ROCKBRIDGE—Greg C. Raetz, ’71, 611 Stonewall Street, Lexington, VA 24450; 703-463-7121
ST. LOUIS—J. J. Landers Carnal, ’79, 35 Woodcrest Drive, St. Louis, MO 63124; 314-554-7750

SAN ANTONIO—Carl P. Flanagan III, ’75, Cigna Corp., 6243 IH 10, Suite 1001, San Antonio,
TX 78201; 512-736-2275

SAN DIEGO—John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, Klinedinst & Meiser, 444 W. ‘‘C’’ St., Suite 330,
San Diego, CA 92101; 619-239-8125

SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA—W. Nat Baker, ’67, 2737 Polk Street, Apt. No. 5, San Fran-
cisco, CA 94109; 415-885-6515

SARASOTA—M. Steven LaCroix, ’75L, 7475 Blaine Way, Sarasota, FL; 813-922-9616
SHENANDOAH—William W. Pifer, ’76, Box 725, Winchester, VA 22601; 703-667-0990

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—E. Phifer Helms, ’74, Banker’s Trust, P. O. Box 608, Green-
ville, SC 29602; 803-271-5951

SOUTHERN OHIO—Thomas P. O’Brien, Jr., ’58, °60L, Law Department, The Kroger Co., 1014
Vine Street, Cincinnati, OH. 45201; 513-762-4425

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA—Robert T. Vaughan, ’79L, Meade Tate & Daniel, P. O. Box 720, Dan-
ville, VA 24543; 804-792-3911

SPARTANBURG—Arthur F. Cleveland II, ’71, 1049 Otis Boulevard, Spartanburg, SC 29302;
803-585-1853

TALLAHASSEE—G. Don N. Bryant, III, ’76, 3727 Thomasville Road, Tallahassee, FL 32308;
904-877-5102

TIDEWATER—Charles M. Lollar, ’77, Heilig McKenry Fraim & Lollar, 700 Newtown Road, Nor-
folk, VA 23502; 804-461-2500

TRI STATE—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Campbell Woods Bagley Emerson McNeer Etc.,
P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, WV 25701; 304-529-2391

TUCSON—Charles L. Sherman IV, ’57, BMA Financial Services Inc., 7302 E. 22nd St.,
Suite 106, Tucson, AZ 85710; 602-885-6690

TULSA—David R. Cordell, ’82, Conner & Winters, 2400 First National Tower, Tulsa, OK 74103;
918-586-5711

UPPER POTOMAC— Albert D. Darby, Jr., ’43, 507 Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502;
301-722-4600

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L, 812 Vicar Lane, Alexandria, VA 22302;
703-549-5900

WESTCHESTER/F AIRFIELD CO.—Christopher B. Burnham, ’80, Old Mill Lane, Stamford,
CT 06902; 212-614-4001

WEST TEXAS—John W. B. Northington, ’81, P.O. Box 2705, Midland, TX 79702; 915-687-3208

WINSTON-SALEM— John A. Cocklereece, ’76, ’°79L, Hendrick Zotian & Cocklereece, 305 First
Statford, Winston-Salem, NC 27104-4213; 919-723-1826

WISCONSIN—Thomas H. Baumann, ’76, 5900 N. Shoreland Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53217;
414-352-8800

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of ,
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY University Library v8.

: ige
Lexington, Virginia 24450 ETiAS, Paper Caeeit 3g
OH

 

 

 

**, . . Washington and Lee Univer-

WASHINGTON sity... certainly rates as one of

AND the most beautiful universities in
LEE UNIVERSITY the country. If you have any
doubts, all you have to do is see
the selection of color photographs
compiled by Pulitzer Prize-winning
Photographer William Strode. ’’
—Richmond Times-Dispatch

‘.. . a very satisfying depiction of
this lovely campus and the rare
spirit that underlies it.’
—John D. Wilson
Washington and Lee President

g > Pig gis 2 ,
Beare Oi bdev

 

PHOTOGRAPHY BY WILLIAM STRODE

 

Washington and Lee University is a photographic essay by
William Strode, whose highly acclaimed work has appeared in numerous
national and international publications. Now available through the
Washington and Lee Bookstore, this 112-page volume features the color
photographs that Strode took over a nine-month span. In addition, there
is an introductory essay by Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, the S. Blount
Mason Jr. Professor of English at the University, as well as a series of
photos from the University’s archives.

The standard edition is priced at $35, including postage and handling.
There is also a limited supply of the deluxe, leather-bound edition, slip-
cased and autographed by the photographer; its price is $100.

Order directly from the Washington and Lee Bookstore,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

