*

.

Say o 2) 4,

 

3 ¥

aoe

.

a

cd ie ee
ree

>

—— Mi
oy
: A

.
~~ >.

IE Ae

2
bh
aa i Ls

 

 

 

 

37%-165

Wfol ial

Arch.

\V- 63

 

Vi0+ |

 

 

 

woosoronnoees

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 63, Number 1, February 1988

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor

BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor

ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
Patrick HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. Fotsom, ’73, President
Columbia, S.C.

WAYNE D. McGrew Jr., ’52, Vice President
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, Treasurer
New Orleans, La.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

C. HowarD CaPITo, 68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JAMES J. Dawson, 68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

M. LEE HALFORD JrR., 69
Dallas, Texas

CLAY T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JouN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

RoBERT D. LARUE, 772
Houston, Texas

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, 70
Washington, D.C.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 758, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

EuGENE C. PERRY Jr., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

JOHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 53
Darien, Conn.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1988 Washington and Lee University

*

On the Inside

 

 

 

 

A RRR a

Water polo makes a splash. Page 23

 

2 Any Doctors in the House?

 

10 + Dr. Peppers

 

14 Double Agent

 

18 W&L Gazette

 

22 #£=The Bookshelf

 

23 Hold Your Horses

 

26 Generals’ Report

 

28 Alumni News

 

30 =Class Notes

 

38 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

 

On The Cover: Payne Hall’s ivy-covered back wall gets a light
dusting of snow. Photograph by Jeffery G. Hanna. Inside Front
Cover: Lee Chapel’s shadow creeps up the Colonnade on a late
December morning. Photograph by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

Are There

Any Doctors
In the House?

 

For W&L’s Premed Students, The Road Remains Long

 

“One night I was studying for an organic
chemistry test, and everybody in my frater-
nity was leaving to go to the movies. I was
feeling a lot of pressure and a lot of stress,
and I did come really close to calling it
quits. ”’

—Rick Sances
Washington and Lee sophomore

Tis comprise a relatively small por-
tion of each year’s graduating
seniors, and their numbers have been
decreasing during the past several years
(although that trend is beginning to reverse
itself). They spend their afternoons leaning
over Bunsen burners or slicing open
formaldehyde-soaked fetal pigs, while other
students are tossing frisbees on the Front
Lawn or lounging before afternoon soap
operas in the dorms.

They seem to work harder than many
(some might say most) of their classmates,
particularly in their freshman and
sophomore years. Yet the rewards, such as
they are, will materialize only after about
eight more years of strenuous training,
sleepless nights spent on hospital wards, and,
frequently, enormous debts incurred in
medical school.

They are Washington and Lee’s
premedical students, and they have devoted
themselves to a career path that they know
will be long and arduous. They know, too,
that despite their hard work, they will prob-
ably earn less money than, say, some of their
counterparts in the Commerce School who
land more lucrative jobs in the business
world. .

‘‘Medicine isn’t what it used to be,’’ says
William J. Watt, professor of chemistry and
coordinator of premedical studies at W&L.
‘‘There are the problems of insurance and
liability. Physicians today often practice in
groups, so that they are no longer the sole

2 W&L

By Anne Coulling

controller of their destiny. The compensa-
tion has dwindled, too. There are a lot of bet-
ter paying jobs, such as the stock market.

“*It takes a long time to become a doc-
tor, especially if you want to specialize in a
particular field. For all these reasons, there
are a lot of physicians out there who are tell-
ing kids not to go into the business.”’

Apparently many students are listening
to such admonitions. Last year, 61 percent
of W&L’s graduating seniors went directly
into the work force, compared with 31 per-
cent who entered graduate or professional
school. A mere six percent of the class head-
ed toward medical school.

Those numbers are down sharply from
a decade ago. In 1977, 39 Washington and
Lee seniors applied to medical school. Last
year, only 13 did.

Why do those few continue to choose
such a path, when there are easier paths to
take? Who are these young men and women
who spend so much time in the classrooms
and laboratories of Howe and Parmly Halls,

peering into microscopes and mastering the

complexities of organic chemistry? And how
did they end up at Washington and Lee?
Here are some of the answers.

ick Sances, ’90, of Leonardtown,
Md., was a 9-year-old fourth grader
when he decided that he wanted to

be a doctor. Two of his uncles are heart
surgeons, and both grandfathers and an un-

cle died of heart attacks. So it is no coin-.

cidence that the young Sances knew not on-
ly that he wanted to be a doctor, but that
he wanted to specialize in cardiac surgery.

When he began looking for colleges,
Sances put a strong premedical program as
one of his top priorities. He was attracted
to Washington and Lee largely because it
boasts such a high medical school acceptance
rate.

“I was also looking for a program where
the students had access to their professors,”’
he explains. ‘‘I could have gone to the
University of Maryland, and then probably
to medical school there. But I talked to
friends at Maryland who had 400 people in
a chemistry class. If they had a problem and
needed to talk to the professor, they had to
make an appointment three weeks in ad-
vance. That’s ridiculous.”’

Rob Williamson, a senior from David-
son, N.C., cites similar reasons for choos-
ing Washington and Lee’s premed program.
*‘T liked the one-to-one, person-to-person at-
mosphere,’’ he says. ‘‘Once I went to a
psychology class with a friend at Duke, and
there were 350 people in the class. I was tak-
ing the same course here at W&L, and my
class had only 18 in it. In his class, there was
a little professor standing down at the bot-
tom of a huge auditorium. My friend never
even met the man!

‘*Things like huge lab spaces aren’t that
important. The only reason other schools
have them is because they have so many
students. Having a professor spend time with
you means more than an electron microscope
(which Washington and Lee has, too). The
small atmosphere far outweighs having a lot
of neat stuff.’’

H. Thomas Williams, associate dean of
the College (of arts and sciences) and pro-
fessor of physics, believes that personal at-
tention and faculty involvement with
students are among the major strengths of
the University’s premedical program.
‘‘Classroom work is supplemented with in-
dividual work, which is often in the form of
research,’’ he explains. ‘‘Students don’t gain
knowledge purely from the textbook. They
can say to a medical school, ‘I’ve been work-
ing on such-and-such a project with a pro-

Sophomore Rick Sances (left) dissects a fetal pig.

 

 

 

 

 

fessor.’ That’s impressive.”’

In addition to their regular lab work,
many premed students also participate in the
Robert E. Lee Research Program, which
allows them to work alongside faculty
members on original research projects. ‘‘This
is an opportunity you don’t get anywhere
else,’’ says Williamson, who is currently
working on a project in the field of gas li-
quid chromatography. ‘‘It’s neat to be on the
vanguard of technology, though of course
this is very scaled down. You get a grasp on
research techniques and use some fancy
equipment. It looks great on your resume
and, besides, it’s lots of fun.’’

Participants in such research projects are
paid only a modest stipend for their efforts.
They don’t seem to mind. ‘‘You don’t do it
to get paid,’’ Williamson explains. ‘‘The
prestige of getting a grant and being allow-
ed to do the work is enough for me.”’

ashington and Lee does not offer

a specified ‘‘premed”’ major. In-

stead, when entering students ex-
press an interest in the field, they are assigned
to faculty advisers in one of the science
departments. Those advisers make sure the
students take the courses required for admis-
sion to medical school. Most of W&L’s
premed students wind up with majors in one
of the sciences, although some have double
majors, and a few even major in totally
unrelated fields, such as English or
philosophy.

From year to year, 14 to 15 percent of
the freshman class identify themselves as
probable premeds. By the time they are
seniors, only about half of those actually
apply to medical school. The rest have
changed their minds, often because they are
discouraged by the difficulty of such courses
as general and organic chemistry.

Rick Sances has watched as many would-
be doctors in his class have fallen by the
wayside and abandoned all thoughts of prac-
ticing medicine after only a year and a half
of college. Sances himself has stuck it out.
But it hasn’t been easy.

“*From the time you get up in the morn-
ing until you go to bed at night, you’re tired
all the time,’’ he says. ‘‘And you haven’t
really done anything but study. There’s just
sO much material you have to know. The
stress is the worst thing about it.’’

Other premed students have similar
thoughts. ‘‘The work is pretty hideous,
especially the organic,’’ says Courtney Har-
pold, a junior from Charleston, W.Va. ‘‘I’ve
spent a lot of my free time in labs, especial-
ly during my freshman and sophomore years.
There’s not a lot of time for extracurricular
activities.’’

4 W&L

 

 

 

 

 

During the fall term that ended last
December, Sances was enrolled in three
laboratory science courses and was also in-
volved in the research project with William-
son. Consequently Sances spent four of five
weekday afternoons in the lab, and even
found it necessary to schedule a ‘‘make-up”’
organic chemistry lab on Saturday mornings
to get all his work done. That was the only
time he could find to fit it in.

Such a schedule necessarily demands
sacrifices. Sances has not been able to work
as much as he would have liked at his
work/study job in the University’s news of-
fice. He takes part in few extracurricular ac-
tivities, and he has had to limit his participa-
tion in his fraternity, Chi Psi.

‘*You just have to be disciplined,’’ he
says. ‘I’ve had a lab at 8 o’clock on Thurs-
day mornings, so I really couldn’t party with
everybody else on Wednesday nights. If we
have a party on a Saturday night, I can go
just as long as I spend the whole day in the
library.”’

For Rob Williamson, ‘‘commitment?’’ is
the key word. ‘‘It’s been a grind, and you
really have to have a dedication to it. I decid-
ed my sophomore year I would stay with it.
Once you make that commitment you
understand that you are going to have to do
more work than someone else, but then you
know that before you make the commit-
ment.’’

It is often difficult, though, to maintain
that sense of dedication, when temptation
abounds. ‘‘The two guys who live next door
to me in the fraternity house have their stereo
going every night until 2 a.m.,’’ Sances says.
‘*1’ll leave the house with my books, and
they’ll be sitting around drinking beer. It
makes it tough.”’

Sances consoles himself, though, with the

as . ox

Junior Courtney Harpold admits she has not found much time for extracurriculars.

 

knowledge that things will get better, after
his sophomore year is through and he has
completed most of the requirements for the
major. ‘‘Once I’m done with the major, the
worst part will be over,’’ he realizes. ‘‘I’ll be
able to take some electives, and it won’t be
as difficult.’’

That has been the experience of Rob
Williamson. Last term, Williamson decided
to reward himself for the hard work of the
past three years by not registering for a single
science course. ‘‘This has been my ‘rest’
semester,’’ he explains. ‘‘I wanted to take
some liberal arts courses to broaden my
background. That’s necessary to be a good
doctor, and medical schools want that. I
think I deserve it, too.”’

Williamson thinks he also deserves to get
away from the books every so often. Dur-
ing his four years at W&L he has actively
participated in many different facets of stu-
dent life, including ROTC, the Muscular
Dystrophy Superdance, and Chi Psi frater-
nity. He works in the dining hall and is a resi-
dent adviser in Gaines Hall and president of
Alpha Epsilon Delta, the premedical honor
society.

He has also been a member of the varsi-
ty track team, even during his sophomore
year, when he had two labs every week. He
was forced to practice at night. Just the
same, he won the state championship in the
pole vault.

‘*You can’t be a bookworm all the time,
because you would go crazy,’’ he believes.
‘“You need to find a happy medium. You
shouldn’t lock yourself in the library or the
lab, because W&L has so much more to of-
fer. You would miss out.’’

Sometimes, however, it’s not so easy to

Courtney Harpold’s spare time is in the lab.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SARS

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

  
 

    

gj” en

 

 

  
 

Piha
Pe Das

 

 

 

When not in labs, senior Rob Williamson (right) has been active in ROTC.

reach that happy medium. ‘‘I’ve known
premeds who were involved in a lot of ex-
tracurricular activities, but with all the labs
I have, I don’t know how I would find the
time,’’ says Sances.

‘*Last year I used to go to the gym and
shoot foul shots, just to deal with all the
pressure.’’ Then he adds a bit wistfully, ‘‘But
I don’t have time anymore.”’

| ast year, 31,323 students across the
country applied for admission to
medical school. Of those, 17,092, or
54.6 percent, were accepted. Most of those
who were admitted had strong scores on the
Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT)
and good undergraduate grades. During the
past three years, for instance, more than
three-fourths of those accepted have had
grade-point averages of 3.3 or better. Fewer
than nine percent of the students who were
accepted had GPAs of less than 3.0.

The competition is fierce, and the stakes
are high. It is no wonder, then, that several
years ago alumni of Harvard’s medical
school concluded that many students nation-
wide are infected with a so-called ‘‘premed
syndrome,”’ defined as ‘‘a pejorative term
that implies that the student is overachiev-
ing, excessively competitive, cynical,
dehumanized, overspecialized, and narrow.”’

Most observers agree that Washington
and Lee has escaped an onslaught of premed
syndrome. ‘“There’s no epidemic here,’’ says
Watt. ‘‘Our students don’t have a sense that
this is their whole life.’’

Nonetheless, grades are regarded as be-
ing extremely important. ‘‘The guys in my
fraternity will get a C in a class, and they

Senior Rob Williamson says commitment has been
the key.

think it’s all right,’’ Sances explains. ‘‘If a
premed got a C in chemistry, that would be
death. There’s no difference between a C,
a D, and an F. They’re all the same if you’re
a premed.

‘‘There are times when I think more
about getting an A than about learning
something from the class. When I take
classes in other departments, I choose ones
that I think I can get an A in. Chemistry
takes up so much of my time that I can’t af-
ford to worry about getting anything lower
than an A in other classes.”’

It is not surprising, then, that some level
of competitiveness does exist. ‘‘The people
here are all highly motivated,’’ Sances says.
‘‘None would accept failing. So you always
feel like you’re not working as hard as the
guy next to you. You always have to work
to keep up.”’

Still, says Williamson, ‘‘the atmosphere
here is very good. Everybody helps
everybody else. You know you are going to
get in somewhere, so you’re not competing
with everyone. You are pushing each other,
and you’re pushing each other hard. But you
all know what you’re striving for. W&L has
a friendly atmosphere, and you want to see
your friends get in.”’

Harpold agrees. ‘‘There’s very positive
encouragement of each other, and very lit-
tle negative competitions We always joke
about being ‘cut-throat premeds,’ but we’re
really not. We share notes and help each
other. At bigger schools, competitiveness is
a real problem.”’

The atmosphere among W&L premeds is
a source of amazement to chemistry pro-
fessor Michael A. Pleva. ‘‘The premed pro-
gram here is intense and competitive, and yet
somehow—and I don’t know how—still
decency and humanity reside here. The at-

titude is not adversarial. It’s the instructors
and students against the material, helping
them and hoping that they can get to the level
where they need to perform.

‘*We are able to give unproctored exams.
You couldn’t even try to do that elsewhere.
And these are premed kids we’re talking
about. They worry. They know that if they
just drop their pencil they won’t get into med
school. And yet I can give them unproctored
exams all the time and not worry that
anything will happen.’’

Besides needing to maintain a good GPA,
premeds also need to do well on the MCAT.
The eight-hour test, taken usually at the end
of the junior year, looms large in the minds
of premed students. Yet most seem to face
it with confidence.

‘*The MCAT is one hell of a barrier,’’
Pleva says. ‘‘Nobody takes it casually, or if
they do, they’re just whistling past their
graveyard. But most of them do have the
feeling that if they’ve gotten this far, through
all their coursework, they can handle it.

‘*The test is an obstacle course and an
athletic event, and you train for it like an
athletic event. It’s part of the game that the
med schools make you play. By the time
most students get to that stage, they look at
it as just one more thing they have to do.’’

When Williamson took the test last year,
he felt well prepared. ‘‘The study guide that
you can buy, and the education you receive
at W&L, will get you through the MCAT,”’
he says. ‘‘The test covered everything we had
covered in the basic science courses here. I
had seen everything before. Whether I knew
it or not was up to me.”’

For Harpold, studying and preparing for
the MCAT will be the least of her worries.
She and another junior, who is also premed,
have plans to be out of town when the test
is offered in late April. In fact, they will be
out of the country—spending their spring
term with other W&L students in Germany.
Although she would prefer to take the test
in familiar surroundings, Harpold, a
chemistry and German major, is undaunted
by the inconvenient scheduling. So she and
her classmate will simply travel to Munich,
where the MCAT will be administered.

Once they have taken the test—abroad
or at home—premeds begin the process of
filling out med school applications. Along
the way, they receive helpful advice and sug-
gestions from various faculty members who
serve as premedical advisers. In addition,
Williamson had a mock interview with Anece
F. McCloud, associate dean of students, who
came to W&L from the University of
Nebraska Medical Center. ‘‘That interview
helped me so much, because it prepared me
for the best and the worst,’’ Williamson says.

W&L 7

 

 

 

Besides Science, What Should Premeds Know?

n 1985, the most recent year for

which I can find complete data,
17,228 students were admitted to
medical school in the United States.
Of these only 1,878 majored in non-
science subjects, such as anthropology,
English, history, psychology, or
sociology. All of the others listed
biological or physical sciences, the
other health professions, or (about 10
percent) no major.

This concentration of medical
students in undergraduate work in the
sciences is to be expected for several
reasons.

One of the most important of these
reasons is that most medical schools
require all entrants to have a year of
biology, two years of chemistry, and a
year of physics. An undergraduate can
combine these required courses most
easily with a major in biology or
chemistry. (Recently a distinguished
medical school announced that it
would no longer require certain
courses but only knowledge of certain
topics for entrance. A careful study of
these topics revealed that at least one
additional course more than those
mentioned above in both biology and
chemistry would now be needed.)

Secondly, the Medical College Ad-
missions Test has six sections. These
are labeled biology, chemistry,
physics, science problems, quantitative
reasoning, and reading. In the past
few years this test has also included a
45-minute essay. Even though hardly
any medical schools use this essay in
the consideration of applicants, all
premed students know they have to
emphasize science and composition.

Thirdly, the first two years of
medical school stress science instruc-
tion. This period is completed at most
medical schools with the basic science
medical boards which all prospective
physicians must pass in order to be
licensed. Successful medical students
must have an interest in and aptitude
for science courses. When a year of
medical school costs the institution
about $50,000, few schools are willing
to risk admitting a student who cannot
do science courses well.

Yet the practice of medicine is not
completely bound by the sciences. As

By William J. Watt

Professor of Chemistry

ox

 

one medical school stated in its admis-
sions material: ‘‘Effective medicine is
also dependent on a knowledge of the
humanities and other cultural
disciplines.’’ After all, a physician is
healing a human being whose
responses are influenced strongly by
feelings as well as by the efficacy of
the medication prescribed. Medical
schools today are very much concern-
ed about their graduates’ abilities to
express themselves well and to deal
with people effectively. As a result we
have seen great discussion in the
medical and popular press about
medical schools’ searching for the
‘*well-rounded applicant.’’

The 1984 report on medical educa-
tion, ‘‘Physicians for the Twenty-First
Century,’’ recommended in its section
on the undergraduate education of
premedical students that ‘‘college and
university faculties should require
every student, regardless of major sub-
ject or career objective, to achieve a
baccalaureate education that encom-
passes broad study in the natural and
the social sciences and in the
humanities.”’

This recommendation fits well the
general education degree requirements
that the Washington and Lee faculty

adopted in 1983. All of our graduates
are expected to demonstrate proficien-
cy in English composition and foreign
language at the second-year level, as
well as complete the following: six
credits in literature, 12 credits in two
of four humanities areas (i.e., fine
arts, history, philosophy, and
religion), nine credits total in at least
two social sciences, and 10 credits in
natural science and mathematics. Ap-
plicants from Washington and Lee to
medical school have no need to worry
about the breadth of their education
even if they major in science.

Most of our applicants get into
medical school (85 percent of those
applying over the past five years, 92
percent of those who graduated last
year who applied). Reflecting national
trends, most of our premeds majored
in biology or chemistry. A few took
double majors that included one of
those two sciences. Over the last five
years, only six of our 78 successful
medical school applicants have taken a
single major outside the natural
sciences (three in psychology, two in
English, and one in philosophy).

Our experiences indicate that
medical schools can be assured that a
student will be effective in one of two
ways. He or she can do exceptionally
well in the four required years of
science or can do quite well in a
science major. Most of our non-
science majors who entered medical
school were also members of Phi Beta
Kappa.

With careful reference to the data
presented above, I recommend to a
prospective premed a major in the
field the student likes. I also tell these
students that if they don’t enjoy doing
science enough to do well in these
basic courses they will certainly not
enjoy medical school and probably
wouldn’t enjoy the practice of
medicine.

But we also need medical care. It
is our expectation that a liberal arts
education like that provided by
Washington and Lee will give the ap-
propriate balance of scientific learning
and humane understanding to produce
the skills physicians need for the prac-
tice of medicine today.

 

W&L

 

 

‘*Because of it I wasn’t nervous about hav-
ing a real interview. I was confident I could
face any situation that arose.

‘*People like Dean McCloud and the
premed advisers are a great asset. They tell
you exactly what you’re going to face.”’

The premed advisers are also of help to
premed students in the area of recommen-
dations. Here especially, Washington and
Lee premeds have an edge over students from
larger institutions.

Dean Williams explains. ‘‘Say we have
a student—Susan X—who would make a
very good doctor, but who doesn’t have a
very good transcript or strong scores. We can
go to one of the handful of medical schools
that we deal with regularly and say, ‘Look,
she deserves a chance. This student will make
a good physician, and I’ll stake my reputa-
tion on it.’ The medical schools will believe
us, because they know we won’t go to the
wall for students who aren’t worthy.”’

Williamson has applied to seven medical
schools. He is now awaiting word—with
remarkable calm and equanimity. ‘‘I feel
confident I will get in somewhere. During the
summer I was worried, while I was filling out
the applications. But worrying won’t do me
any good. And sometimes the acceptance let-
ters come as late as June.

‘It doesn’t matter so much where you
go. You’re still a doctor. Just getting in is
a big river to cross. After that, it’s smooth
sailing in a sense, although you still have a
lot of work to do.”’

fter they graduate, Washington and
Lee’s premedical students do indeed
face a lot more work. Chris
Talley, a 1987 graduate who has just com-
pleted his first semester at the University of
Virginia’s medical school, can attest to that.

‘‘The biggest adjustment is getting used
to the volume of material,’’ Talley says.
‘‘Organic chemistry is one of the toughest
classes you’ll take as an undergraduate. In
medical school, it’s as if you’re taking four
organic classes at once.”’

W&L’s premed students realize that they
still have a long way to go: four years of
medical school, and then several years more
as an intern. ‘‘Medical school will be a lot
worse in terms of pressure, and the intern-
ship will be even worse than that,’’ Sances
believes.

Why do these students put themselves
through all the years of difficult training, the
hours spent in labs, the stress of studying,
the endless intern shifts? Why do they make
all the sacrifices of time and money and
energy?

One thing is certain: they don’t do it to
earn big salaries. ‘‘When you take into ac-

 

 

count all the years you spend in school, you
don’t really earn all that much money,”’ ex-
plains Sances. ‘‘There are plenty of ways to
make money. By the end of freshman year,
the people who want to be a doctor just to
make money have quit.”’

Williamson agrees. ‘‘If you’re in it for
the money, you’re in it for the wrong
reasons. If you want to make a lot of money,
go to Wall Street. You’d be better off, and
so would we.”’

For premeds like Sances, Williamson,
and Harpold, the motivation is simple. They
just want to be doctors.

‘*‘The more you look at it, the more it
seems like it’s not worth it,’’ Sances con-
cedes. ‘‘I would tell somebody else that it’s
not worth it. But it really depends on the per-
son. It has got to be what you want most in
life.

‘‘T have no idea what I would do if I
didn’t get into medical school. A lot of peo-
ple who don’t get in go to grad school in
chemistry. But I don’t even like chemistry.

‘*T guess I could find an easier career, a
safer one, where I might not have to worry
so much about things like getting sued for
malpractice. But there really isn’t anything
else I want to do.’’

The questions and the doubts will prob-
ably continue to dog these premeds even
after they leave W&L. ‘‘I don’t know anyone
in medical school who doesn’t say from time
to time, ‘What the heck am I doing here?’ ”’

Sophomore Rick
Sances spends as
much time as he
can at his
work/study job
in the W&L
News Office.

says Talley. ‘‘But you don’t really reconsider
your decision if it’s what you want to do. I
wouldn’t want to work for a business. I want
to be around a hospital and help people. It’s
the only thing I can see myself doing.”’

Rob Williamson’s already strong com-
mitment to medicine was only intensified last
summer when, as part of his ROTC train-
ing, he worked in the ear, nose, and throat
clinic at Walter Reed Army Hospital.
Although he is not sure he wants to spend
his life in the operating room or doing
rounds, he is more convinced than ever that
he wants to be a doctor.

‘‘Everybody should experience a career
and see the lifestyle before going into all the
rigors of preparing for it,’’ he believes. ‘‘Be-
ing a doctor is a prestigious title, but there
are a lot of sleepless nights, and you don’t
earn megabucks the way you used to. But I
have always wanted to help other people, and
I feel this is a way I can help large numbers
of them.’’

Clearly careers in medicine are not for
everyone. But for some, it is the only life they
can imagine. ‘‘I always want to be pushing
myself to see how far I can go,’’ William-
son explains. ‘‘Once you finish med school,
it’s not as if you can just put your books
away. You have to work constantly to keep
up with changes in medicine. I see it as a
challenge—a lifelong challenge.’’

For Washington and Lee’s premedical
students, the challenge is just beginning. L]

W&L 9

 

 

Dr. Peppers

W&L’s Commerce School Dean
Fine-Tunes the Program

 

 

By Brian D. Shaw

r. Larry C. Peppers has heard just about every joke and
pun about the name he shares with the famous soft drink.
But he still laughs politely and doesn’t seem to mind,
even if some of the jokes are pretty corny.

For the record, though, Dr. Peppers does not teach his classes
exclusively at the hours of 10, 2, and 4 (check out an old Dr. Pep-
per bottle). Nor does he automatically think of a Moon Pie when
he is contemplating a snack.

It is true that when Peppers, his wife, Fran, and their two
children returned to their home state of Iowa after he had receiv-
ed the Ph.D. in economics from Vanderbilt University, his father-
in-law had erected a huge metal Dr. Pepper sign in his front yard.
And he did once meet another Dr. Pepper (singular) with whom
he shared amusing stories about their well-known names. For the
most part, though, Peppers is philosophical about sharing his name
with a ubiquitous consumer product.

‘*It’s a good problem,’’ he says. ‘‘At least no one forgets my
name.’’

In his year and a half as dean of Washington and Lee’s School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, Peppers has made a name
for himself and his division of the University. Yet, he is quick to
deflect much of the credit for any gains during his brief tenure
to the faculty and to increased alumni support.

‘‘The program was in very good shape when I came here,”’ says
Peppers, who succeeded Edward C. Atwood, the Lewis Whitaker
Adams Professor of Economics at W&L. ‘‘We have a splendid
physical plant, an outstanding faculty, and excellent students. There
are some areas that will require our attention. We are working on
those.”’

One area that Peppers thinks needs little or no work is the Com-
merce School’s commitment to a liberal arts education—something
that sets it apart from other business schools.

‘*Some of the most ardent advocates of a liberal arts educa-
tion on our campus are in this building,’’ Peppers says. ‘‘A lot
of campuses have open warfare between commerce and the arts
and sciences. You just don’t see that tension here.’’

That commitment to liberal arts is one of the reasons
Washington and Lee was so attractive to Peppers. The product
of a liberal arts education himself, Peppers remains a firm believer
in its value in contemporary society.

Peppers was born in New Mexico while his father was station-
ed there with the Army, but he calls lowa home. He attended high
school in his hometown of Ottumwa and became the first member
of his family to pursue a college education. His choice of a college
was based on anything but the exacting research he was to em-
brace later in life.

W&L 11

 

“*I chose Grinnell College (about 60 miles from Ottumwa)
because I had an English teacher in high school I admired who
was a graduate of Grinnell,’’ he says.

As Peppers tells it, he was overwhelmed at first by the level
of training that most of his fellow students at Grinnell enjoyed.

**There were a lot of East Coast kids who were more articulate
and better trained than I was. I was coming out of a mediocre small
public high school and wasn’t really ready to compete with the bet-
ter trained students.”’ |

Peppers worked hard to keep up his grades as a mathematics
major. He eventually switched to economics in his junior year
because he enjoyed the application of math to economics.

Ultimately he received a degree in both economics and
mathematics. From Grinnell, Peppers headed for the doctoral pro-
gram at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. His choice of Vander-
bilt for postgraduate studies was based on the same sort of reason-
ing as his choice of Grinnell: one of his best teachers at Grinnell
held a Ph.D. from Vanderbilt.

Peppers attended Vanderbilt for three years on a National
Defense Fellowship. His fourth year there was sponsored by a
Woodrow Wilson Dissertation Fellowship. The Wilson fellowship,
Peppers says, gave him the luxury of working on his dissertation
without carrying the teaching load that many graduate students
must endure. With Fran’s assistance, Peppers finished his Ph.D.
requirements and was awarded his degree at the ripe old age of 26.

Peppers’ first teaching position was at Knox College in Illinois,
where he was an assistant professor of economics. Two years in
a six-person department whetted Peppers’ appetite for a greater
challenge. He next took a post as assistant professor at Eastern
Michigan University, but the ‘‘layers and layers of bureaucracy’’
that dictate the pace of life and work at many large state univer-
sities wore Peppers down and, after only one year, he began to
get restless.

Then one day an advertisement in The Wall Street Journal
caught his eye. Union Pacific Railroad in Omaha, Neb., was look-
ing for someone to create and head an economic forecasting depart-
ment. Until the early 1970s, the railroad had been lightly regulated
by the federal government, but increased competition from the
trucking industry meant that the railroad became keenly interested
in economic (and profit) projections.

Peppers was interested, too. He joined Union Pacific in 1973
and was given carte blanche in filling his department. He responded
by creating what he calls ‘‘an academic department within the cor-
porate structure.’’ He hired three Ph.D.s in economics and one
Ph.D. in statistics. One of the Ph.D.s hired by Peppers was Dale
Bails, who later co-authored two books with Peppers—Business
Fluctuations: Forecasting Techniques and Applications and
Managerial Economics: Theory and Applications for Decision
Making.

The biggest challenge he faced at Union Pacific, Peppers says,
was “‘to convince the president and vice presidents to base their
decisions on our economic forecasts.’’ His department created
statistical forecasting models that linked macroeconomic activity
to the volume of freight traffic hauled by the railroad.

**Because the railroad industry was closed to new ideas for so
many years, we were not accepted at first. But then we were inun-
dated,’’ he says. ‘‘We moved from forecasting freight volume to
equipment purchases and even to employee hours.”’

Peppers found the work stimulating and demanding. ‘‘It was
a tremendous education to see how a corporation is really run. We
found a major challenge in communicating with people who are
bright, but didn’t have the same technical training that we did.
We spent a lot of time translating our work so it could be

12) W&L

understood. We had to gauge the economic literacy of the people
above us, then gear our presentation to that.” 3

Much as he enjoyed the experience at Union Pacific, after three
and a half years of 50-or-more hour work weeks Peppers began
longing for the freedom he had enjoyed in academia.

“TI went there (Union Pacific) with the idea that I wouldn’t stay
forever,’’ he says. ‘‘The children were getting older and I really
missed the personal freedom I once had.’’

So in 1976 he left Union Pacific and moved across town to
Creighton University where he became an associate professor.
Creighton, a 6,000-student, Jesuit-run institution, emphasizes the
liberal arts at the undergraduate level, but it also has post-graduate
schools in medicine, business, and nursing. The move provided
the rejuvenation that Peppers needed.

Back in the academic world, he again had time for research
and consulting. The list of his publications and the consulting jobs
he undertook during his 10 years at Creighton covers two and a
half pages in his resume. That outside work did not, however,
detract from his teaching duties. He was named teacher of the year
in the Creighton College of Business in 1978. He served as chair-
man of the Creighton department of economics and finance for
two three-year terms. In 1982 he was promoted to full professor.

The Peppers family flourished in Omaha. As Larry continued
his teaching, writing, and consulting work at Creighton, Fran
returned to college and earned her B.S. at the University of
Nebraska. She later became one of the first women to graduate
from the Creighton M.B.A. program and went on to teach at St.
Mary’s College in Omaha. She now teaches business and economics
at Southern Seminary Junior College in Buena Vista. The Pep-
perses’ son, Todd, is a sophomore at Washington and Lee; their
daughter, Susan, is a senior at Lexington High School and plans
to attend Davidson College next fall.

While Peppers enjoyed his time at Creighton, he always knew
he wanted to ‘‘get back to my roots.’’ He was looking for a small,
liberal arts college with a strong emphasis on business. Several years
earlier, the family had vacationed in the Shenandoah Valley and
had been taken by its beauty and climate.

So when an advertisement for the deanship of Washington and
Lee’s School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics appeared in
The Chronicle of Higher Education, Peppers was immediately in-
terested. After all, Washington and Lee was one of a handful of
schools that offered the unusual mix for which Peppers was
looking.

“I knew about Washington and Lee,’’ Peppers says, ‘‘but I
didn’t know anyone here. Several things really interested me. First,
the school’s organization reflects the old model of a political
economy, with the social sciences of economics and politics com-
bined with the applied disciplines of administration and accounting.

““Second, I got a real sense of excitement from the faculty, the
search committee, the deans, and President Wilson. My gut reac-
tion after the first visit was ‘I like these people.’ And my
background was a good fit.”’

Since coming to Washington and Lee, Peppers has been fine-
tuning what he found to be a basically solid program. ‘‘We are
not out to change any of our core programs radically,’’ Peppers
says. ‘“But we would like to deepen our curriculum and make it
more accessible. I don’t see massive curriculum changes in terms
of the basic nature of the programs.’’

Prior to the opening of classes last fall, the faculty of the Com-
merce School spent a day at Skylark, Washington and Lee’s Blue
Ridge Mountain retreat, where they outlined several long-range
goals.

High on that list of goals, says Peppers, is the faculty’s desire

 

‘*to reach out to external constituencies, such
as alumni and business and government
leaders.’’ A second major goal is ‘‘to deepen
international contacts’’ and expand the em-
phasis on international business and —
economics. Too, Peppers says he would like ©
to see more internships for students and
faculty and the development of an executive-
in-residence program.

He points to some recently established
programs as examples of the direction the
Commerce School faculty wants to take in
the future.

The Washington semester program
developed by William Connelly, assistant
professor of politics, is one way, says Pep-
pers, for politics students to gain practical,
hands-on experience in a working environ-
ment away from the confines of Lexington.

Under the program, students spend the
spring term working in a congressional of-
fice in Washington. They work four and a
half days each week, have one seminar per
week with Connelly, keep a diary of their
daily activities while working, and are required to write a substan-
tial research paper on a subject of interest to them. Peppers hopes
the program will attract between 12 and 15 students this year.

While the internship program allows students to gain experience
off campus, a newly created Washington and Lee chapter of the
Financial Management Association adds another dimension to
Commerce School programs on campus. Founded last year with
the assistance of Joseph Goldsten, professor of administration,
FMA brings speakers with strong backgrounds in finance and
business to the campus for lectures and discussions with students.

‘‘We would like to get more student participation in external
academic programs,’’ Peppers says, ‘‘by enhancing the intellec-
tual environment outside the classroom.’’

A program in law and commerce illustrates the way two schools
within the University work together, says Peppers. Under this pro-
gram, which is being conducted jointly by the School of Law and
the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, experts on sub-
jects in either business or law will visit the campus and serve as
consultants-in-residence for a period of about a week. They will
seek to apply business remedies to legal problems.

‘*A discussion of bankruptcy is an excellent example of the type
of problem we will address,’’ Peppers says. ‘‘Bankruptcy is a legal
issue, but it also represents a complex business problem.’’

Both the programs sponsored by FMA and the law and com-
merce program will draw heavily on alumni participation. Last fall
FMA brought two alumni to the campus to discuss their respec-
tive roles in the business world.

‘‘We have found the alumni willing to help in almost every
area,’’ says Peppers. ‘‘I don’t think we’ve been turned down on
any reasonable request.”’

The new microcomputer lab in the Commerce School (Alumni
Magazine, November/December 1987) will allow Washington and
Lee students to be technologically proficient when they enter the
business world. The lab consists of 29 IBM microcomputers. When
the Commerce School Building is fully networked in the summer
of 1988, it will permit professors to work in their own offices, store
information in the files, and have the students gain access to that
data in the lab, thus utilizing the lab for individualized class in-
struction as well as for classroom assignments. Contributions from

 

W&L alumni honoring senior professors
paid for the project.

‘*The lab speaks to a critical need in the
Commerce School,’’ says Peppers, who has
been particularly delighted by the high level
of use the center has gotten since it was in-
stalled last fall. ‘‘There is no doubt that it
makes everyone more productive.”’

One other innovative program that has
drawn on alumni support has been the sum-
mer Family Business Institute, in which
members of family-owned businesses
gathered on campus to discuss problems and
opportunities unique to their situations. Last
summer’s inaugural institute was highly suc-
cessful, according to Peppers, who an-
ticipates an even better session this summer.

Much as he is pleased with the new pro-
grams and the directions they represent, a
number of issues continue to concern Pep-
pers. Chief among those is the hiring of new
faculty members.

‘*In the next five to seven years we will
be facing several retirements. That means we
will be spending a lot of time in faculty recruiting. Many profes-
sionals in business-related fields want to be near urban areas. It
will be a challenge to us to attract the best professionals to
Washington and Lee.”’

As an expert in economic forecasting, Peppers knows the value
of looking to the future with a unified vision. He believes the Com-
merce School faculty is of one mind when it defines its goals.

‘‘Some schools have no collective faculty vision, but we are
different,’’ he says. ‘‘We have a pretty clear vision of what our
market niche is. We are not out to compete with the large state
universities. We want the students who come out of here to be
prepared to be leaders.”’

And the emphasis on a liberal arts education is, Peppers
believes, the best possible training for leaders.

‘‘Leadership and management roles involve people with a broad
understanding of more than just one field,’’ Peppers says. ‘‘As
our graduates move up through the corporate structure they will
need to understand the subtleties of human psychology and ethics.
They will have to know how to motivate individuals from different
backgrounds and cultures.

‘‘Many of our alumni who have come back to speak have a
world view that stretches beyond their area of expertise. They can
talk freely about art, literature, and other cultures. If managers
have never taken courses in psychology, literature, or other areas,
they have put on institutional blinders. If you haven’t had the train-
ing, you put limitations on what can be accomplished.”’

Peppers says the Commerce School faculty encourages its ma-
jors to take courses outside the school. If a senior has completed
his or her course requirements for the major and still has an elec-
tive left, Peppers says, the student is encouraged to be venturesome
and take courses in areas such as literature or art.

The continued emphasis on liberal arts, the development of in-
novative programs, and the faculty’s unified vision for the future
have left Peppers with the impression that the Commerce School
is headed in the right direction.

There is, however, one area in the Commerce School that needs
no improvement. That is the snack bar in the basement.

The vending machines there already offer Dr. Pepper, both diet
and regular.)

W&L 13

Double Agent

Gene Perry Has Gone from Chasing Spies
To Signing Sports Stars

 

 

By Jeffery G. Hanna

 

n a sleepy morning in late June,
Washington and Lee’s Warner
Center is abuzz.

An unlikely assortment of coaches, televi-
sion reporters, and secretaries has gathered
in a knot at one end of the basketball court
where they are trading whispered comments
and staring at the man standing beneath the
basket, the top of his head seeming to brush
the net.

Ralph Sampson is accustomed to such
stares and whispers. So the 7-foot-4-inch pro-
fessional basketball star is oblivious to the
commotion his presence is causing this morn-
ing. His attention is focused instead on the
100 or so youngsters who are seated in a
semicircle at his feet, their necks craning up-
ward at severe angles.

As a special guest for the Lexington
Basketball Camp of W&L basketball coach
Verne Canfield, Sampson spends the better
part of the morning talking to the enraptured
campers, who range in age from 8 to 17, on
everything from proper defensive techniques
to saying ‘‘no’’ to drugs and alcohol. He
even slams home a few obligatory dunks to
approving oohs and aahs from campers and
bystanders alike.

Meanwhile, over on the sidelines, Gene
Perry, ’75, ’78L, is keeping a watchful eye
on the proceedings. As the morning passes
and interested passersby drift through to get
a glimpse of Sampson, Perry remains at his
post, leaning against the wall in a corner. His
arms are folded across the short-sleeved sport
shirt he is wearing with shorts and sneakers.
He is listening to Sampson’s every word and
watching Sampson’s every move with more
than the idle curiosity of those around him.
And with good reason. Perry has a keen in-
terest in everything Ralph Sampson says and
does nowadays.

After eight years with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, Gene Perry has become an
agent of a much different sort. He is now
a sports agent. And his biggest client, by
every measure, is Ralph Sampson.

uring his undergraduate and even
1): law school days at Washington

and Lee, Gene Perry had two
distinctly different ambitions. On the one
hand, he wanted to follow his father, a
Waynesboro, Va., policeman, into law en-
forcement. But at the same time he was in-
trigued with the notion of becoming a sports
agent. Perry realized full well that those were
hardly complementary career paths.

**T didn’t think there was a particular ma-
jor that would prepare me to be a sports
agent, and I couldn’t really see a way to get
there,’’ says Perry. ‘‘But I thought becom-
ing an FBI agent was a realistic goal for me.”’

 

So Perry settled for that path. After
finishing his law degree at W&L in 1978, he
joined the FBI and was assigned to the Nor-
folk office, where his duties involved what
he characterizes as ‘‘the traditional stuff you
see on TV—chase the bank robbers, arrest
the fugitives. We had a lot of first-office
agents there, and it was solid training. I was
in some semi-dangerous situations, but a lot
of it was routine.”’

After two years in Norfolk, Perry was
assigned to New York City and counter-
intelligence on the bureau’s Russian squad.

Even now that he’s been out of the
bureau more than a year, Perry declines to
discuss specific details of his six years in New
York. He will talk about the world of
counterintelligence in only general terms,
referring primarily to the intense preparation
and creative thinking the assignment
required.

‘*This (counterintelligence) is a game that
has been played for centuries, and the stakes
are quite high because they (the Russians) are
very serious about what they want to ac-
complish here,’’ Perry says. ‘‘And they’re
very good at what they do—very good.”’

Perry speaks from the perspective of one
who was involved in one of the most
celebrated espionage cases in decades—the
Gennadi Zakharov affair of 1986, in which
the FBI arrested Zakharov as a KGB agent
and the Russians responded by arresting
American journalist Nicholas Daniloff.

Precisely how involved Perry was in that
case is something he won’t divulge. But the
fact that he did play a role in what ultimate-
ly became a showdown between the world’s
superpowers was disclosed in a New York
magazine cover story that documented the
involvement of a Queens College student as
a go-between in the FBI’s efforts to catch
Zakharov. In that story, the student-
operative refers to several briefing sessions
that he had with Special Agent Gene Perry.

Not all Perry’s assignments in New York
wound up as widely publicized international
incidents, of course. He spent a good por-
tion of his time keeping tabs on the
movements of various Russian officials. And
they, in turn, kept tabs on him. A
Washington and Lee administrator
remembers meeting Perry for lunch in a New
York restaurant and having Perry casually
mention that the man seated several tables
away was a Soviet operative who was observ-
ing them.

But whether he was involved in high-
stakes episodes such as the Zakharov affair
or the more routine (relatively speaking, of
course) aspects of international espionage,
Perry never could quit thinking about that
other career. And being in New York where

 

Ralph Sampson has the rapt attention of par-
ticipants in the Lexington Basketball Camp of
W&L Coach Verne Canfield.

he was constantly reading about the city’s
professional sports teams and stars only serv-
ed to intensify those thoughts. ‘‘I really got
the itch again,’’ he says.

The trick was finding a way to pursue
both careers at once. He finally found the
solution in 1983 when he struck up a friend-
ship with a Philadelphia-based sports agent
named Art Wilkinson. Perry bought into
Wilkinson’s agency. That way he had the
best of both worlds: he kept his job with the
FBI and, at the same time, got a chance to
see whether the career he’d always dreamt
about was something he really did want to
pursue. ‘‘I was hedging my bet,”’ he says.

For the next three years Perry served as
a ‘‘passive assistant’’ in Wilkinson’s sports
agency. He was on the board of directors and
served as vice president. As the firm grew
and expanded, Perry knew that, sooner or
later, he would be forced to make a decision,
although he confesses that, by then, his
choice was a foregone conclusion.

It was in January 1987 when Perry finally
made the move, trading the pressures and in-
trigue of international espionage for the
pressures and intrigue of professional sports
by joining the agency on a full-time basis.
The itch had finally been scratched.

‘Obviously these are completely dif-
ferent worlds,’’ Perry says of the two careers.
‘‘And yet, both have their pressures. You
can’t afford to make mistakes in either job.”’

ressure is nothing new to Gene Perry.
He learned to perform in tight situa-
tions long before his days with the
FBI. Consider, for example, the pressure
Perry faced as the first black quarterback on
the Waynesboro High School football team.

‘‘That’s big-time pressure,’’ he says.
‘*Friday night the high school football game
is where everybody goes. There was pressure
on me. There was pressure on our team
because of me. And there was pressure on
the coach for naming me the quarterback.’’

Then, too, Perry faced pressures of a dif-
ferent sort as a black student at Washington
and Lee. When he arrived in 1971, the
University had been integrated for six years
but had enrolled only a few black
undergraduates in those earliest years. There
were 15 black students in the class that
entered in the fall of 1970 and, including
Perry, four in the following class.

‘*T knew that coming to Washington and
Lee would be a challenge for me,’’ says
Perry. ‘‘But I was willing to accept that
challenge.”’

Perry’s first contact with Washington
and Lee came through basketball. During
high school, he and his brother, Tony, ’77,
had attended a basketball camp at Ferrum

W&L 15

 

 

College, where they met Washington and Lee
basketball coach Verne Canfield.

**After I got to know Coach Canfield, I
began to keep up with the W&L basketball
team in the area newspapers. I can still
remember reading about (Mike) Neer (’70)
and (Mel) Cartwright (’70), who were play-
ing for W&L in those days,’’ says Perry.

When it came time to apply to colleges,
Perry immediately thought of W&L. But
what ultimately sold him was a weekend he
spent on the campus where he met the other
black students, all members of the Class of
1974. Although he paid similar weekend
visits to the University of Virginia and
Randolph-Macon, Perry remembers being
particularly struck by the quality of the peo-
ple he met at W&L.

““They were serious about what they were
doing here,”’ he says. ‘‘It was much different
than what I found at the other schools. I
finally woke up one morning and I knew that
Washington and Lee was the right place for
me to go. I never regretted that.’’

That is not to say that Perry’s memories
of his seven years in Lexington are all rosy.
There were plenty of times when he question-
ed his decision and more than a few times
when he thought about leaving.

‘“There were some ugly things that hap-
pened while I was here,’’ Perry says. ‘‘But
we knew, or at least I knew, that those things
were going to happen. There were some peo-
ple here who resented the presence of black
students and who resented some of the things
we asked for. But that was the case when
they integrated Harvard and Yale and
Alabama. It was just that we got started
later. I doubt it was any different from other
places.’’

For Perry, the toughest part of the ex-
perience was the absence of a black support
system. “‘It was difficult enough having to
deal with the fact that you’re a freshman and
you’re away from home at a fairly difficult
academic school,’’ Perry says. ‘‘But then you
add the fact that there were no black adults
and that becomes even more difficult.’’

Perry suggests that there were two con-
sequences of that situation. For one, he
thinks the black students themselves prob-
ably were closer than they would otherwise
have been. And for another, most of the
students established a relationship with a
member of Lexington’s black community. In
Perry’s case, a woman named Margaret
Carter served as his surrogate mother. ‘‘She
fed me when I was hungry, cared for me
when I was sick, and was always there for
me,’’ Perry says. ‘‘She was a very important
person to me. I think we all had someone like
that—and we had each other.’’

As crucial as those relationships were,

16 W&L

Perry has equally positive feelings about the
friendships he developed with classmates,
particularly his teammates on the varsity
basketball team, and with faculty members.
*‘My faculty adviser was Barry Machado,
and he and I had a lot of man-to-man talks
while I was here,”’ says Perry. ‘‘I remember
my high school guidance counselor told me
that what Washington and Lee would offer
me would be personal attention from the
professors. That was extremely important to
me.”’

No matter what had happened the
previous year, Perry remembers that he was
always anxious to get back to Lexington at
the end of every summer. ‘‘I knew I was get-
ting a good education, and I thought that
was worth dealing with whatever problems
there were for black students. I knew, too,
that when you’re a pioneer of sorts, you’re
not going to reap the benefits of your efforts.
Others will, and I hope others are now.

“*There is little doubt that I got more
positive things than negative ones out of my
W&L experience,’’ he adds. ‘‘And maybe
even the negative things I was able to turn
into positive ones since it made me stronger.
Certainly some situations I faced at W&L re-
quired some internal fortitude that served me
well in situations I found myself in with the
FBI.’’

A history major, Perry’s W&L basket-
ball career lasted only two seasons. He suf-
fered a knee injury in his freshman year and
reinjured it in the summer prior to his junior
year. But knee surgery did nothing to
diminish his interest in basketball—or in all
sports for that matter.

**I started playing basketball when I was
eight. Both my parents had played ball in
high school. My father was an official,’’ says
Perry. “‘I didn’t come to W&L to get to the
pros. I realized long before I got to college
that I wasn’t going to play in the National
Basketball Association.

“*But I’d read stories where athletes had
been mismanaged—particularly black
athletes—and thought this was an area where
I could do some good. I could never get that
idea out of my head, not even all the time
I was with the FBI.’’

ow that he is introducing himself as
N: sports agent rather than an FBI

agent, Gene Perry has noticed that
people ‘‘look at me a little funny.”’

He is not surprised by that. Sports agents
have been making lots of headlines recent-
ly. And the news has rarely been good. In
the past year, agents have been at the center
of any number of scandals. Many of those
scandals have centered on payments agents
have made to college athletes in attempts to

win the athletes as clients. While such
payments are not against the law, they are
a violation of NCAA rules and, if
discovered, can mean an end to an athlete’s
college eligibility. A few agents have been
sued for fraud; some others have been caught
mismanaging their clients’ finances. All in
all, the profession of sports agency has not
gotten high marks for honesty or integrity.

‘‘I know that a whole lot of people think
all agents are bums,’’ Perry says. ‘‘But I’ve
got to change that perception through the
way I conduct my business.

‘‘Actually, you don’t really have to worry
about the attitude of the general public. You
have to worry about that small group of peo-
ple who are going to be professional athletes.
Those are the people for whom your reputa-
tion matters.’

Perry stresses that he went into his new
career with his eyes open. That’s a good
thing, too, because only six months after he
joined Wilkinson and Perry on a full-time
basis, a Philadelphia Inquirer story charged
that Art Wilkinson, Perry’s partner, had
violated NCAA rules in his recruitment of
college athletes.

Although Perry contends that the charges
against his partner were blown out of pro-
portion, the story did have a major impact
on the company. In November Perry bought
Wilkinson out, reorganized the firm as Perry
Group International, and set out to model
his company after two firms—Washington,
D.C.’s ProServ and Cleveland’s Interna-
tional Management Group (IMG)—that are
widely regarded as the best in the rapidly ex-
panding sports management and marketing
business.

“‘Those two companies may make some
mistakes. When you’re dealing with 23-year-
old young men, there’s always going to be
something,”’ says Perry. ‘‘But they don’t get
involved in cheating because they don’t have
to. I knew coming in that this is a tough
business, but I’m convinced you can do the
job without taking shortcuts.’’

Unscrupulous shortcuts aside, there are
other reasons why the business of represent-
ing professional athletes is regarded with dis-
dain by many.

Agents are often blamed for the
multimillion-dollar salaries that have become
commonplace in pro sports. Of course, the
players on the receiving end of those salaries
take a somewhat different view of what
agents have meant to the sports world.

Even Perry shakes his head in wonder at
the money paid professional athletes these
days. ‘‘I can understand how a lot of peo-
ple think that a guy running around in his
shorts shooting a basketball should not be
making $3 million a year,’”’ he says.

 

 

But he can, in the next breath, rationalize
those enormous salaries as part of _ the
business of pro sports. ‘‘When you stop to
consider the amount of money that is made
every time a professional team plays a
game—from the tickets to the hot dogs to
the television rights—it is truly amazing,”’
Perry says. ‘‘I think what agents have done
is help athletes get salaries that are commen-
surate with what they bring to the business.”’

Moreover, Perry thinks people often fail
to recognize that most professional athletes
have extremely short careers. And he knows
better than most how an injury can end an
athlete’s career in a heartbeat. ‘‘In working
with young athletes, we always make the
point that their rookie year could be their
last,’ Perry says. ‘‘That seems severe. But
it’s true. So you’re trying to get all the money
you can get because as soon as you’re hurt,
they’re going to open up the door and bring
in another guy who’s bigger and faster and
they’re going to sweep you out of the way.”’

That said, Perry does expect the salary
structure to change. He thinks professional
sports owners are beginning to realize they
need not pay mediocre players exorbitantly.

Too, Perry foresees a dramatic decline in
the number of agents. Some estimates sug-
gest that there are now 20,000 people who
are representing themselves as either full- or
part-time sports agents.

‘“‘That,’’ Perry says, ‘‘is too many. I
think with the restrictions that are bound to
come—restrictions not only in the salaries
that can be paid players but in the way agents
can conduct their business—a lot of these
agents, especially those taking shortcuts, will
not be able to make it. I think—and hope—
that some regulation will clean the business
up a bit.’’

Ithough Ralph Sampson’s name is

definitely at the top, the current

client list for Perry Group Interna-
tional includes such other familiar names as
Terry Kinnard of the New York Giants, Ron
Hextall of the Philadelphia Flyers, and Greg
Maddox of the Chicago Cubs.

Perry thinks his eight-person firm can
comfortably handle 50 clients, 15 more than
are now on the list. But, he warns, the firm
cannot handle 50 Ralph Sampsons, probably
not even five athletes of Sampson’s stature,
simply because of the amount of time a client
such as Sampson requires.

‘“‘We market ourselves as a full service
company. We don’t just recruit athletes,
negotiate their contracts, and then disappear.
We get involved in all sorts of things—from
making certain they’ve got insurance on their
automobiles to scheduling appearances for
them in the offseason to seeing to it that they
get to those appearances on time.”’

When Perry and Sampson were in Lex-
ington last June, Perry had already begun
negotiating a new contract for Sampson with
the Houston Rockets. But those negotiations
lasted another three and a half months dur-
ing which Perry was constantly working on
the details.

**The goal and the challenge was to get
Ralph Sampson the contract he deserves,”’
says Perry. ‘‘And I don’t mean getting the
dollar amount to where you want it, but be-
ing able to structure that deal so that the
Sampsons for the next two or three genera-
tions are taken care of. Because when you
get that kind of money, it should last two
or three generations.

‘**That’s a challenge: to make sure that
your players are always as financially secure
as you can reasonably expect them to be. The

Perry had plenty of ques-
_ tions to field during

~, Sampson’s visit to Lex-
. ington last June.

other challenge is to help them grow as peo-
ple.’’

In that latter regard, Perry requires each
of his clients to support a charity in the city
in which he plays. ‘‘We think the athletes we
represent ought to give something back to
those communities,’’ says Perry. ‘‘And the
athletes, in turn, get a lot back that you can’t
put down on paper.’’

Various reports place the contract that
Perry wound up getting for Sampson be-
tween $12.5 and $14 million for six years.
Oddly enough, many of the details of that
contract were worked out when Perry was
visiting Washington and Lee during
Homecoming in October.

“*! would say that I did 80 percent of the
deal on the telephone in Coach Canfield’s
office,’’ says Perry, who was attending his
first meeting as a member of the Alumni
Association’s Board of Directors at the time.

The contract was finalized in mid-
October and at the news conference to an-
nounce the signing, Houston general
manager Ray Patterson spent several minutes
praising Perry’s work on the contract.

“*I was stunned by that because general
managers and agents are supposed to be
mortal enemies. I was happy that my work
had been recognized,’’ says Perry.

But 58 days after that contract was sign-
ed, Perry found himself facing another set
of challenges when the Rockets traded Samp-
son to the Golden State Warriors.

That meant an unscheduled week in San
Francisco, where Perry met with Warriors’
officials to iron out the details of Sampson’s
trade.

“I’ve quickly discovered one thing about
this business,’’ says Perry. ‘‘It is never dull.”’
And he wouldn’t have it any other way.0

W&L 17

The W&L Gazette

 

President Wilson Receives Duffy Daugherty Award

 

ashington and Lee President
John D. Wilson was named the
1987 winner of the Duffy

Daugherty Award at his alma mater,
Michigan State University.

Wilson, who was Michigan State’s first
Academic All-American, received the award
in November at the annual Spartan Football
Bust, which was held in East Lansing, Mich.

Named for the former Michigan State
coaching legend who died in September, the
award has been given since 1975 to a
Michigan State football alumnus who has
distinguished himself on and off the football
field.

‘*It was particularly significant, I think,
that John Wilson received the Daugherty
Award in this year,’’ said Michigan State
Athletic Director Doug Weaver, who
presented the award to Wilson. ‘‘As a
member of one of Michigan State’s most
famous and illustrious families, John and his
brothers, Pat and Tom, and their parents
had a most unique relationship with Duffy
Daugherty.”’

Both of Wilson’s brothers followed him
to Michigan State where they played quarter-
back for the Spartans. Daugherty was an
assistant coach when John Wilson played but
was the head coach for the two other Wilson
brothers.

Wilson, who graduated from Michigan
State in 1953, was a defensive halfback for
Michigan State and played on teams that lost
only one game in his three varsity seasons.
The Spartans won the national championship
in his senior season of 1952.

Although Michigan State was not permit-
ted to compete in the Rose Bowl since the
school was a new member of the Big Ten
Conference, Wilson and several of his team-
mates were invited to play in the North-
South All-Star game in Miami, Fla., at the
end of the 1952 season.

“*If you’re a Michigan State alumnus or
a Michigan State fan, simply reading the list
of people who have won the Daugherty
Award is impressive,’’ said Weaver, who was
one of Wilson’s Spartan teammates. ‘‘The
winners of this award, including such men

18 W&L

 

Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson
makes his response after being presented with the
Duffy Daugherty A ward at Michigan State’s foot-
ball banquet in December.

as Earl Morrall and Jack Breslin, were ex-
ceptional players and exceptional people who
have had distinguished careers after gradua-
tion. Certainly John Wilson deserves a place
in that category.”’

Weaver remembered Wilson as ‘‘an
outstanding total athlete’? who, along with
teammates Ray Voit and Jimmy Ellis, con-
stituted one of the best three-deep defensive
secondaries ever to play college football.

‘**T know that John doesn’t talk about his
playing days. He didn’t talk about his ac-
complishments even when he was playing,”’
said Weaver. ‘‘But he was an excellent
athlete. We forget how important that is. He
could catch the ball. He could run. He could
jump. And he was tough, which you have
to be to play the secondary.

**As you would expect, he was very, very
aware of everything that was happening on
the field. He knew tendencies and he an-

ee

ticipated what was going to happen. He
never played poorly. Maybe one of the
hallmarks was his consistency.”’

When he became Michigan State’s first
Rhodes Scholar in 1953, Wilson was the first
big-time college football player to win that
prestigious honor since Byron (Whizzer)
White won the scholarship in 1938.

‘*T always used to tell people that the
Rhodes sort of diminished the fact that John
was a hell of a football player,’’ said Weaver.

One game that particularly stands out in
Weaver’s mind came in that unbeaten 1952
season. The Spartans were trying to with-
stand a late rally by Purdue to preserve the
perfect season.

**John had had a great day in the secon-
dary,’’ said Weaver. ‘‘He’d made a bunch
of tackles and knocked down passes. Then
he intercepted a pass that stopped the Pur-
due rally. That made him the hero of the day,
maybe the hero of the year. Except that one
of our players was offsides on the play, and
Purdue got the ball back. John’s stardom
lasted only until I eventually intercepted a
pass that did stop the Purdue drive. John got
robbed, and I became the hero. I kid him
about that to this day.’’

In accepting the Daugherty Award from
Weaver, Wilson paid tribute to several peo-
ple who especially influenced his career at
Michigan State. He spoke about the way in
which former Michigan State President John
Hannah ‘‘taught me what a university is sup-
posed to be.’’ He praised Breslin, a former
Michigan State All-American and current
vice president, ‘‘for teaching me about loyal-
ty and commitment and how to get things
done.’’ He spoke of Coach Biggie Munn
‘‘who taught me humility.’’ And he recall-
ed ‘‘the public and private ways’”’ in which
Coach Daugherty ‘‘taught me what it means
to be part of the Michigan State family.’’

The Michigan State banquet was shown
via special satellite hookup to alumni groups
throughout the state of Michigan and across
the country. The event was even more gala
than usual since this year’s Spartans won the
Big Ten championship and a trip to the Rose
Bowl.

 

New Ziegler play
has New York premiere

The Last Resort, the latest play by

Washington and Lee associate professor of
drama Thomas Ziegler, opened a three-week
run in January at the Triangle Theatre in
New York City.
, Lh —€, = It is the third Ziegler
| play to be professionally
produced. The Ninth
Step was produced at the
Riverwest Theatre in New
York in 1984, and Strings
was produced at the New
City Theatre in Seattle in
1986.

Will Cantler, ’77, directed the Triangle
Theatre’s production.

A comedy/drama, T7he Last Resort
depicts the plight of six elderly residents of
the plush Sunset Terrace Nursing Home on
Long Island, where calm and peaceful con-
ditions prevail, until the arrival of Marjorie
Kendrick.

Kendrick quickly realizes the peaceful at-
mosphere of the nursing home is maintain-
ed by the administering of large doses of
tranquilizers, barbituates, and painkillers.
This practice is not motivated by malice but
is simply common nursing home economics.

When Kendrick envisions the remainder
of her life being spent in a drug-induced
coma, she prods the other patients into ac-
tion. The results are a funny and moving
testament of courage, caring, and a tenacious
love for life.

Ziegler’s play was inspired by the obser-
vations he made while visiting an elderly
relative in a nursing home. The seeming lack
of concern by medical professionals who
treat the elderly led Ziegler to conduct
research that revealed startling statistics
about the way drugs are used to tranquilize
nursing home patients and the deaths caus-
ed by such drug misuse.

Ziegler joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1976 after teaching at the College
of the Virgin Islands and the University of
Toledo. He received his bachelor’s degree
from Lewis College and his master’s degree
from Northern Illinois. In addition to
teaching courses in theatre design, play pro-
duction, and playwriting at W&L, he is the
resident scene designer and playwright.

   

  

Dinner for Riegels

O.W. (Tom) Riegel, professor emeritus
of journalism and communications, and his
wife, Jane, will be honored at a dinner on
April 15 at the National Press Club in
Washington, D.C.

Organized by a self-appointed commit-

 

New Athletic Hall of Fame
Is Accepting Nominations

he Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame will induct its first members in
the fall of 1988.

Established last May by the board of directors of the W&L Alumni Association,
the Hall of Fame is designed to honor and perpetuate the memory of those individuals
who have made outstanding contributions to W&L athletics and have helped to bring
recognition, honor, distinction, and excellence to the University and its intercollegiate
athletic program.

According to Richard R. Warren, ’57, of New York, chairman of the Athletic
Hall of Fame Committee, the first class of inductees will be elected this May. The
induction ceremonies will take place at a banquet on Friday, Sept. 9, and the new
inductees will be recognized during halftime of the first annual Hall of Fame Game
the next day when the Generals open their 1988 football season by playing Emory
& Henry on Wilson Field.

The five-member Athletic Hall of Fame Committee, which will select inductees
from those nominated, consists of Warren; James D. Farrar Jr., ’74, assistant alum-
ni secretary; Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of students; William McHenry, ’54, director
of athletics; and Barry Machado, professor of history and chairman of the Universi-
ty’s athletic committee.

Nominations to the Athletic Hall of Fame can be made by any interested party—
alumni, faculty, staff, committee members, or friends of the University.

In order to be eligible, a nominee must have participated in two full seasons of
varsity intercollegiate competition at W&L. Nominees are eligible at any time begin-
ning 10 years after receiving their bachelor’s degree. (A person who has not qualified
for a degree may be selected only upon approval of all members of the committee.)
Coaches, trainers, managers, and any other persons who have made outstanding con-
tributions or offered extraordinary service to W&L athletics are eligible. In addition,
alumni are eligible if they have made outstanding contributions or offered extraor-
dinary service to athletics at W&L after graduation. . 2

No more than five nominees will be inducted in any one year. Once nominated,
an individual will be considered for induction by the committee for five consecutive
years after which he or she can be renominated at any time.

A preliminary nomination form is printed below. In order to receive the official
nomination form, anyone interested in nominating a candidate for the Washington
and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame should complete and mail this form to William D.
McHenry, Director of Athletics, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA
24450.

 

 

Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame
Preliminary Nomination Form

Nominee’s Name

 

Nominee’s Address

 

 

Nominee’s W&L Class ________. Nominee’s W&L Sports

 

Submitted by: Name

 

Address :

 

Clip and return to:
William D. McHenry, Director of Athletics,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450

 

W&L

19

 

 

tee of ‘‘Riegel Disciples,’’ the dinner will
allow his former students to pay tribute to
Riegel and the influence he has had on them.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty from 1930 to 1973 and director of the
Lee Memorial Journalism Foundation from
1934 to 1968, Riegel has been called ‘‘the
greatest teacher we ever had’”’ by many of his
former students.

He is internationally recognized as an

authority on worldwide media, communica-
tions politics, public opinion, propaganda,
and film.

The committee planning the event con-
sists of James Paera, ’39; Matthews Griffith,
"40; William MHeartwell, °’41; Charles
McDowell, ’48; and Norman Dobyns, ’54.

For further details and reservation forms,
write: Riegel Dinner; c/o Jim Paera
Associates; 3408 Wisconsin Avenue N.W.;
Washington, D.C. 20016.

Grunewald testifies
on Freedom of Information Act

A study conducted by Mark H.
Grunewald, professor of law at Washington
and Lee, was the focal point for hearings by
a subcommittee of the House Government
Operations Committee on the Freedom of
Information Act.

Titled Administra-
tive Mechanisms for
Resolving Freedom of
Information Act Dis-
putes, the study was
| prepared by Grunewald
, for the Administrative
Conference of the
United States, an in-
dependent agency of the

ms federal government. The
study oreeetied a number of possible alter-
natives to the now exclusive remedy of a
federal court lawsuit in cases in which a re-
quest for information under the Act is
denied. | ]

Grunewald was the opening witness at the
December hearings, which were called to
determine, according to Subcommittee
Chairman Glenn English (D-Okla.),
‘‘whether there is a problem with the way
FOIA disputes are now resolved’’ and ‘‘[i]f
there is . . . to see if there is any agreement
on the appropriate solution.’’

In his testimony, Grunewald summariz-
ed two parts of his study: the analysis of the
FOIA caseload and expert perceptions of the
current process. He also presented his views
on FOIA dispute resolutions. Grunewald
proposed two possible approaches in his
report: ‘‘ . . . first, a specialized adjudicative
entity that would hear cases submitted to it

 

20 W&L

 

The 81st edition of Washington
and Lee’s Fancy Dress Ball will be
held Friday, March 4, in the Warner —

Center. The featured attraction will be
the music of the Glenn Miller
Orchestra.

The Fancy Dress Weekend bo

on Thursday, March 3, with a concert
and dance in the Student Activities
Pavilion. |

The ball, the centerpiece of the
weekend, begins at 8:30 p.m. Friday.
In addition to the Glenn Miller Or-
chestra playing in the Warner Center
gymnasium, a variety of other musical

 

 

8ist Fancy Dress Scheduled March 4

entertainment will be offered

throughout the evening.

Once again this year, the Student
Activities Board is extending an invita-

_ tion to all alumni to attend the event.
Tickets are $40 per couple and can be

obtained by writing the Student Ac- ©
tivities Board, University Center,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-

- ington, VA 24450.

For additional information about

_ Fancy Dress weekend activities, in-

cluding lodging information, contact
the Student Activities Board by

telephone at (703) 463-8585.

 

by agreement of the parties or certified to it
by a district court (under certain cir-
cumstances) after suit under the Act, and sec-
ond, an ombudsman with authority to
receive and investigate requester complaints
and to issue non-binding reports to the par-
ties.’

Other witnesses at the hearings included
the heads of a number of state freedom of
information agencies, the Canadian Infor-
mation Commissioner, and representatives
of various media and public interest
organizations such as the Reporters Commit-
tee for Freedom of the Press and the Socie-
ty for Professional Journalists.

Grunewald joined the W&L faculty in
1976 after practicing with a Washington,
D.C., law firm and serving in the United
States Department of Justice.

Another high ranking

Washington and Lee was ranked 23rd on
a USA Today list of the ‘‘choosiest colleges’’
in America this fall.

Using data supplied by the College Board
and various guidebook publishers, the
newspaper compiled a list of 43 colleges and
universities that accepted fewer than 50 per-
cent of their applicants and that had
freshman average SAT scores of 1200 or
above.

Washington and Lee accepted 34.2 per-
cent of its applicants for the class that
entered in the fall of 1987. The average SAT
score for that class was 1230.

This is the second year for the USA To-
day ranking. Last year Washington and Lee
was 25th on the list.

 

 

The Wonor System—A Way to Build ery,
By Michael J. McManus

EXINGTON, Va.—When my wife and I visited our

son, John, a freshman at Washington and Lee

University recently, I came away determined to write
about its Honor System, begun by Gen. Robert E. Lee as
president from 1865 to 1870 of what was then known as
Washington College.

The importance of the system was clear to John who told
us, “‘I lost my wallet. But a week later, it was returned, with

$15 I forgot was there.’’

What if all America’s students could learn about integrity
like that? |

The thought returned with power as I read with growing
dismay about the ethics of Supreme Court nominee Judge
Douglas Ginsburg. While owning $140,000 of securities in a
cable TV firm, he wrote a brief as an assistant attorney
general favorable to the industry. He claimed to have par-
ticipated in dozens of cases that went to trial, but they were
done by subordinates. He’d spent ony an hour of his life
arguing a case in court.

Then came the bombshell that he had used marijuana as
_ a Harvard professor of law as recently as 1979. Sleazy ethics
have clouded 100 top Reagan appointees, an unprecedented
number. Three special prosecutors are examining former
- White House aides and even Attorney General Edmund
Meese.

But when the President nominated Judge Anthony Ken-
nedy to the Supreme Court, he said that like retiring Justice
Lewis F. Powell Jr., Kennedy ‘‘is known as a gentleman.’’
Finally, integrity is seen as more important than ideology.

Since Justice Powell got his B.S. and law degrees from |
W&L, I wondered if the Honor System was a factor in his
character formation, and asked him.

‘‘My values were formed in a Christian home before I
got there. But they could have been corrupted,’’ he told me.
“If I had gone to another school, where because of the com-
petition, people cheat, I might have been tempted to join the
crowd. But there was no temptation to cheat at W&L.’’ |

Why? There’s only one penalty for a person who cheats:
expulsion.

W&L’s White Book, given to every freshman, says the
system ‘‘is one of mutual trust—trust among students, facul-
ty, administrators, and townspeople that persons attending
Washington and Lee will not lie, cheat or steal. We do not
think it is too much to ask that students do their work,
represent themselves truthfully, and claim only that which is
theirs.”’ |

This year Brad Root, president of the Executive Commit-
tee that reviews infractions, briefed freshmen and asked
them to sign a pledge of honor. ‘‘If you do not believe in
honor, you have the option to excuse yourself from the
University,’’ he said chillingly.

The presentation must have been powerful, for there have

been no reported violations this fall. [Since this column was

(EDITORS’ NOTE: Michael J. McManus, the father of Washington
and Lee freshman John McManus, is the author of a syndicated col-
umn titled ‘‘Ethics & Religion.’’ The column, which is reprinted here
by permission, was distributed to newspapers across the country in
November.)

written, two cases have resulted in students leaving the
University.] But last year there were 23 investigations, 11
closed ‘‘fact-finding’’ hearings, and five guilty verdicts. Four
were appealed and were given open trials with student jurors
picked at random.

Executive Committee members took on the role of pros-
ecutors. The accused asked law students to aid in their
defense. Two were found guilty—of shoplifting and using a
false ID to buy liquor. And two were acquitted of charges of
plagiarism and property destruction.

Two aspects of W&L’s system are rare, even among the
several dozen colleges with enforced honor codes. First, it is
totally student-run. An appeal is possible to administrators
at West Point or Annapolis. Second is the ‘‘single sanction’’
of expulsion found also at the University of Virginia.

- What is the rationale for
that, since offenses vary in
seriousness?

‘‘A student has made a
contract with his fellow
students he will not lie, cheat
or steal. To do so is to forfeit
the right to be at the universi-
ty,’’ declared James Socas,
chairman of UVa’s Honor
Committee.

‘““Once a person shows a
willingness to compromise his
honor, he will do it again,”’
says W&L’s Executive Com- ©
mitteeman Pat Schaefer. ‘‘This
generates more respect for the
system.’’ Also the task of
judgment is easier.

‘‘We are obligated to prove only guilt or innocence. It is
not our obligation to decide the penalty. All know the penal-
ty,’’ says Brad Root.

But the benefits are also extraordinary, ‘*Even the stores
in town don’t ask for an ID when you cash a check,”’ says
John. ‘‘Professors don’t supervise classes taking exams..
Bikes or computers can be left anywhere.”’

Justice Powell recalls ‘“W&L had a good football team in
the early ’50s. Scholarships were given. But there was a
cheating scandal, and 11 football players were expelled. So
athletic scholarships were abolished.’’

Dean of the College John Elrod says: ‘‘The only thing ©
alumni worry about is how the Honor System is doing.”’
Does it have an impact on them after graduation?

“It made me realize that integrity is worth something,”’
says Gray Castle, executive vice president of Mutual In-
surance of New York. It made a difference in who he went
to work for, who he hires, and how MONY is run. ‘‘Even if
we can rely on a technicality to get out of paying a claim,
we won’t do it.”’

What if all colleges had an honor code? ‘‘Integrity would
become a norm of society,’’ he said.

The University of Maryland is smueying the W&L model.
Others should too.

 

 

W&L 21

 

 

Development Office seeking
Planned Giving Director

Washington and Lee is seeking a direc-
tor of planned giving/associate director of
development to fill a vacancy being created
by the retirement in mid-1988 of William C.
Washburn.

It is actually Washburn’s second W&L
retirement. In 1983, he retired from the post
of Alumni Secretary and joined the Develop-
ment Office to work on the planned giving
programs. When he steps down a second
time in June 1988, Washburn will have com-
pleted 30 years of service to Washington and
Lee. He is a 1940 graduate of W&L.

‘*Bill Washburn has done a superb job
of getting our various planned giving pro-
grams moving,’’ said Lex O. McMillan,
director of development.

In addition to directing, managing, and
marketing the University’s planned giving
programs, the new director of planned giv-
ing will also provide staff support for the gift
effort of each SOth reunion class and for the
annual reunion of the Five-Star Generals—
members of classes graduated from the
University more than 50 years ago.

Candidates should offer relevant ex-
perience and a record of achievement in
development, estate and financial planning,
and marketing.

For information or to apply, write: Lex
O. McMillan, Director of Development,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
VA 24450.

Scholarship honors
E. P. Tatum Smith Jr., ’>50L

Washington and Lee has received a
$100,000 grant to establish a scholarship in
honor of the late E. P. Tatum Smith Jr. of
Roanoke. Smith was a 1950 graduate of the
Washington and Lee School of Law.

The scholarship, which is open to
undergraduate and law students, is made
possible by a grant from the William H.
Donner Foundation of New York, Inc. The
Donner Foundation is named for William H.
Donner, industrialist and philanthropist,
who sought to maintain exceptional stan-
dards in the fields of medicine, Native
American affairs, and U.S.-Canadian
relations.

Smith joined the Donner Corp. in
Philadelphia in 1953 and was named presi-
dent of the Donner Foundation in 1963. Dur-
ing that same period he was also president
of Universal Ball Co. in Roanoke.

In 1969 he rejoined the Donner Corp. in
Philadelphia and became president in 1974,
serving in that post until his death in 1986.

22 W&L

 

The Bookshelf

 

Classics to Presidential Politics

 

The Letters of Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve
By Ward W. Briggs Jr., ’67
(The Johns Hopkins University Press)

Ward W. Briggs Jr., professor of classics
at the University of South Carolina, has
published a fully annotated collection of 191
letters of Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve,
America’s greatest classicist.

Born in Charleston, S.C., Gildersleeve
moved with his family to Richmond in 1845,
at the age of 14. He was trained in Germany,
received his Ph.D. from Gottingen in 1853,
and in 1856 was made professor of Greek at
the University of Virginia, where he remain-
ed for the next 20 years.

He served in the First Virginia Cavalry
for three years under Fitzhugh Lee and was
wounded in 1864 during Early’s Valley Cam-
paign. Appointed the first professor at the
new Johns Hopkins University in 1876, he
went on to teach for 40 more years, until his
retirement in 1915. He founded the nation’s
first classics journal, The American Journal
of Philology, began the first graduate depart-
ment in classics founded on the German
model, and was awarded honorary degrees
by Harvard, Yale, Princeton, William and
Mary, Oxford, and Cambridge.

Throughout his long life (1831-1924), he
remained a man of letters as well as an
academic and contributed notable essays,
particularly ‘“The Creed of the Old South”’
and ‘‘A Southerner in the Peloponnesian
War,”’’ to the Atlantic. He corresponded with
Emerson, Lowell, Howells, and other literary
figures, and knew Poe and P.H. Hayne from
his boyhood.

Briggs, who has also written on Virgil,
was the co-editor of a 1986 volume about
Gildersleeve that comprised the papers (in-
cluding one by Briggs) delivered at a session
of the Classical Association of the Middle
West and South.

The Pursuit of the White House:

A Handbook of Presidential Election
Statistics and History

By G. Scott Thomas, ’77

(Greenwood Press, Inc.)

G. Scott Thomas offers a complete
statistical and descriptive guide to the 50
American presidential elections that were
held between 1789 and 1984.

The book is divided into two major sec-
tions, the first dealing with the elections as
such and the second with the participation
of the candidates, parties, and states. In the
first six chapters, Thomas looks at elections
in each historical period, summarizing the
contests and describing the battles for major-
party nominations and the issues and con-
troversies of the general election campaign.

He presents detailed breakdowns of
voting in primaries, conventions, and general
elections. The final three chapters offer pro-
files of the political careers of 213 candidates
who have sought the presidency, the voting
performance of 23 political parties, and a
numerical analysis of each state’s role in the
presidential elections.

The Pursuit of the White House incor-
porates more than 450 charts as well as con-
cise summaries supplying comprehensive
data on all aspects of presidential elections.

Thomas is news director of WBFO Radio
in Buffalo, N.Y. An experienced political
analyst, he is a contributing editor of Em-
pire State Report, a New York political
journal.

The Good Old Days

in Hampton and Newport News
By Parke S. Rouse Jr., ’37
(Dietz Press)

This is a reminiscent view of the history
of the two Virginia Peninsula cities.

Heavily illustrated with prints and
photographs, it is composed of articles that
Rouse wrote for the Virginia Magazine of
History and Biography, Commonwealth
magazine, and chiefly the Newport News
Daily Press.

Rouse, who is currently a contributing
editor of the Daily Press, is a recognized
authority on Virginia history. He has serv-
ed as director of the Jamestown Foundation
and as head of the Virginia Bicentennial
Commission.

Among his other books is Living by
Design: Leslie Cheek and the Arts, a
‘“‘photobiography’’ of the man credited with
building up the Virginia Museum to national
status. Several pages of that volume are
devoted to a description of Skylark, the Blue
Ridge Parkway estate that Cheek and his
wife, Mary Tyler, donated to Washington
and Lee.

 

Washington and Lee water polo goalie David Olson stretches for a save against Arkansas-Little Rock in the Southern League title game.

Hold Your Horses

 

Water Polo Makes a Big Splash with Southern Championship

 

ater polo is a sport Rodney
Dangerfield would love. Talk
about no respect.

Every so often someone will ask Page
Remillard, coach of Washington and Lee’s
varsity water polo team, where he keeps the
horses. Or how he ever gets the pool clean
after a match. Or whether the saddles aren’t
ruined by the water.

But if their sport is not widely
understood, Remillard, who also coaches
men’s and women’s swimming, and his var-
sity water polo team did earn their fair share
of respect this fall when they won 24,of 30
matches and captured the Southern League
Championship.

Actually, that success was not so unusual.
The Generals have posted winning water
polo records in every season since the team
was given varsity status in 1977.

That water polo has thrived in land-
locked Lexington is a tribute to the players,
the coaches, and the University’s decision to
offer a comprehensive athletic program.

Washington and Lee is one of 61 schools
with varsity water polo teams. Not surpris-

By Mark Mandel

ingly, the most successful of those schools
are located in California. But the sport has
flourished on the East Coast at schools like
W&L—schools that strive for a well-rounded
approach to education and athletics. This
year, for instance, the top teams in the East
included Brown, Navy, Bucknell, and
Harvard.

Washington and Lee has carved out its
own niche in the world of intercollegiate
water polo. Since there are relatively few
schools competing in the sport, there is only
one NCAA division for all of them. Conse-
quently, W&L must compete against Divi-
sion I programs that offer financial aid for
their athletes.

Although the schools in question might
not award grants to water polo players, they
do give scholarships to swimmers. And that’s
tantamount to the same thing. Since swim-
ming is as basic to water polo as running is
to basketball, schools with Division I swim-
mers on their water polo teams should have
a clear advantage. As an example, one of the
star water polo players for the University of
California at Berkeley is Matt Biondi, who

happens to be a world record-holder in
swimming.

Despite that handicap, the scholarship-
free Generals have made a name for
themselves in the country’s water polo ranks.
This year, W&L was ranked as high as No.
18 in the nation. And, with a few breaks, the
Generals could have been the first team from
the NCAA’s Division III ranks to play in the
national championship tournament. W&L
made it to the Eastern Championships before
a loss to Bucknell ended its NCAA title
hopes.

How is Washington and Lee able to com-
pete successfully against such competition?
According to Remillard, the answer lies in
the University’s unique athletic model.

‘“*W&L emphasizes quality in everything
it does,’’ says Remillard, who has been the
aquatics coach at W&L for nine years.
“*Academics come first, but students are also
encouraged to grow in all areas, including
athletics.

‘Washington and Lee is an extremely at-
tractive place for well-rounded student-
athletes. It offers the aquatic athletes an op-

W&L = 23

 

portunity to go after attainable goals in both
water polo and swimming. We can compete
because we get student-athletes who want to
succeed in both sports,’’ he says.

ashington and Lee’s water polo

players come to Lexington from

varied backgrounds and with a
range of experience in the sport. Some
choose W&L because of its water polo team;
others have never seen the game before they
play at W&L.

Senior Simon Perez and junior David
Dietz, the co-Southern League Players of the
Year, are examples of those two extremes.

Perez, a journalism major from Har-
risonburg, Va., has been a swimmer since he
was seven years old, but water polo was vir-
tually unknown to him prior to his arrival
at Washington and Lee. He, like many
Americans, was first exposed to the sport by
watching the Olympic Games on television.

Dietz, on the other hand, played water
polo for four years at The Hill School in
Pottstown, Pa. He would not have attend-
ed Washington and Lee had it not offered
a competitive water polo program.

The common denominator for Pésez and
Dietz is their will to excel. Last summer both
paid their own expenses to California to train
with a national coach there. Besides playing
water polo in California, Dietz also earned
an A in organic chemistry courses he took
at Occidental College.

““We have been successful at W&L
because of people like Simon and Dave,’’
says Remillard. ‘‘They are committed to their
sport and their teammates. Simon was a
leader from his first days at W&L. He had
never played the game before, but he grasped
the concepts immediately. He worked ex-
tremely hard in motivating himself and his
teammates. He led us to the gates—the big
time.

‘‘This year Dietz and (junior David)
Reavy led us through the gates. With those
three guys leading the way, we gained the
respect of teams throughout the country.’’

Dietz and Reavy were named to the All-
American first team while Perez was selected
to the second team. Remillard was chosen
Southern League Coach of the Year.

Perez downplays his role and instead at-
tributes W&L’s water polo triumphs to a
team effort. ‘‘I am very pleased to win the
awards, but I can’t accept the credit for the
good year we had,”’ he says. ‘‘The dedica-
tion and commitment of the team was the
difference. To win you have to be
disciplined.’’

In this case, that discipline involves ma-
jor commitments of both time and effort.
The team has pre-dawn weight-lifting

24 W&L

 

Generals water polo coach Page Remillard maps strategy during a timeout.

workouts five days a week. Those plus the
usual 22-hour afternoon workouts make for
long days.

But those extraordinary demands on their
time have not hindered the players’ academic
performance. The water polo team has con-
sistently produced combined grade-point
averages well above the average of the stu-
dent body.

‘“‘Coach Remillard always stresses that
the team record is not as important as the
team GPA,”’ says Dietz. ‘‘If you have school
work to do, he will not let you practice.”’

ater polo at Washington and Lee

has come a long way since 1977.

In that year, then-aquatics coach

Bill Stearns established the team to serve as

a preseason conditioning program for his

swimmers. Ten years later, water polo en-
joys a life and a reputation of its own.

To the uninitiated spectator, the sport of

water polo may resemble little more than a

bunch of swimmers horsing around in the

pool with a ball. Water polo is an odd hybrid

of several sports. There is swimming, of

course. But players also need considerable

 

 

ball-handling skills, incredible endurance,
and a good deal of strength.

Like basketball, the offensive team must
take a shot on the goal within a specific
amount of time (35 seconds). Consequent-
ly, the game has a sufficient supply of what
American sports fans like to see—scoring
plays. And, though it often seems to have
no pattern or rhythm, the game is not really
a free-for-all.

A water polo game between two evenly
matched teams can be as tense and exciting
as any other sport. The Southern League
Championship game, which was played in
W&L’s Twombly Pool, proved that.

The Generals played that contest against
the University of Arkansas at Little Rock,
which featured a team of older players with
international water polo experience. Since it
came just a few days after the Minnesota
Twins had won the World Series in front of
one of the noisiest home stadium crowds
ever, Remillard decided to see whether he
could borrow a bit of that excitement for his
water polo team.

He obtained a decibel meter from the
physics department and challenged the
Twombly Pool crowd to break the record of
115 decibels recorded by the Minneapolis

Metrodome crowd in the seventh game of the
World Series. At one point the crowd hit 118
decibels.

And, more importantly, the Generals
won a 10-9 victory.

‘“When I am playing I can’t hear the
crowd, but their enthusiasm really gave us
a lift,’’ says Dietz, who fired in six goals in
the championship game.

“*The best part of the season was that our
players finally received the respect that they
deserve,’ says Remillard. ‘‘It gave me a great
deal of satisfaction to see their hard work pay
off.’’

On campus the team has quietly, but
steadily, earned support and admiration.
**Many of the water polo players have been
involved in other campus activities, and their
fellow students respect the aquatics athletes
because they are aware of their sacrifices and
their commitment to their school and their
sport,’’ he adds.

Although most of the water polo players
may actually consider themselves swimmers
first and foremost, many do prefer com-
peting in water polo. ‘‘I think that most of
my teammates would agree that swimming
is geared toward the individual performance
and that it can be tedious,’’ says Perez. ‘‘On

 

Washington and Lee’s Shawn Copeland (No. 12 in the dark cap) reaches to control a pass in the Southern League championship game.

 

the other hand, water polo is a great team
sport.’’

Remillard remains frustrated that more
schools don’t offer varsity water polo pro-
grams. He would like to see the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference add water polo as
a sport but has heard that many swimming
coaches oppose the idea because they think
water polo would result in more injuries to
their swimmers.

‘““I don’t agree with that,’’ says
Remillard, who has served as an assistant
with the U.S. Olympic water polo team.
“‘Water polo is a safe, refreshing change
from the monotony of swimming, both for
the athletes and spectators.”’

Regardless of how the rest of the coun-
try feels about water polo, though, Remillard
is happy as a fish in water at W&L. He has
built a tradition of winning at the same time
that he has allowed the University to find a
unique niche for itself.

**I’ve had a lot of coaches tell me that
I have one of the best jobs in the country,”’
says Remillard. ‘‘As long as I am able to
work with student-athletes like Dave and
Simon and the others on our team, I can see
myself being happy here for a long, long
time.’’ LJ

W&L = 25

The Generals’ Report

 

Football Suffers Disappointing Fall Campaign

 

Ithough the Washington and Lee

football team played well in spurts,

its disappointments outweighed its
successes last fall.

The Generals finished the 1987 campaign
with a 3-6 overall record and a 1-4 mark in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference. ‘‘I
offer no excuses,’’ said head coach Gary
Fallon. ‘‘We simply didn’t play well enough
to win.”’

Despite the losing record, Fallon had
nothing but praise for the way the players
persevered. ‘‘It was a frustrating year in
terms of the record. But I must say the
players never gave up,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘They
played with intensity throughout the year and
showed a great deal of cohesiveness. I will
always remember the team for those things.’’

One other thing that Fallon can
remember about the 1987 season was that he
became Washington and Lee’s winningest
football coach along the way. The Generals’
victory over Ursinus on the next-to-last
Saturday of the season was Fallon’s 49th win
in 10 years as W&L’s head coach. Lee
McLaughlin, who coached at W&L from
1957 to 1968, had a 48-43-3 record during
his 11-year reign. Fallon is now 49-46.

The Generals’ offense, which had lived
by the running game in recent years, moved
the ball primarily via the air to take advan-
tage of the athletic ability of sophomore
quarterback Phillip Sampson.

Although Sampson was pressured by op-
posing defenses all year, he showed indica-
tions that he may be the conference’s premier
quarterback in the near future. He completed
124 of 250 passes for 1,524 yards and a
school-record 14 touchdowns.

Sampson’s favorite target was Hugh
Finkelstein, who caught 40 passes (six of
which went for touchdowns) and was
selected to the all-ODAC first team. Finkel-
stein had earned a bachelor’s degree from
W&L in 1986 but had used just two years of
his eligibility as an undergraduate. So when
he entered law school this fall, he was able
to complete his eligibility.

Fallon had not been counting on Finkel-
stein’s participation because of the academic
demands. ‘‘Before the season started I told
Hugh, ‘We want you to be a success. If foot-
ball becomes too much of a burden to you,
we’ll kick you off the team. Your priorities,

26 W&L

By Mark Mandel

 

Freshman Carl Gilbert (34) drives for yardage with the help of offensive tackles Bob Drake (79)

and John Packett (72).

in order, have to be classes, studying, and
then football,’ ’’ Fallon explained. Finkel-
stein managed to juggle his heavy load and
still contribute to the Generals’ season.

The W&L defense, meantime, had the
misfortune of facing four opposing runners
who were ranked among the top 10 ground-
gainers in the nation. As a result, the
Generals gave up big chunks of yardage on
the ground.

Even so, two Generals, juniors Tom
Skeen and Jim Johnson, earned all-ODAC
honors on defense. Skeen, the conference’s
leading punter, was consistently brilliant as
a linebacker with 151 tackles, an average of
more than 16 per game, and a team-high four
interceptions. Johnson, a defensive end, was
in on 74 tackles and led the team with five
quarterback sacks.

As the season unfolded, there were in-
dications that W&L was headed for a suc-
cessful year. After opening with a 42-29 loss
to Emory & Henry, which was destined to
advance all the way to the Division III na-
tional semifinals, W&L captured a pair of
impressive victories—17-10 over Centre and
35-28 over Randolph-Macon.

Then the bottom fell out when the
Generals lost their next four. W&L ended

   

that losing streak with a 21-7 win at Ursinus
but then lost 28-14 to Georgetown in the final
game of the University’s 113th football
season.

Women’s Soccer

Washington and Lee’s women’s soccer
team reached most of its goals in finishing
its first fall season with a respectable 2-8-3
record.

Head coach Jan Hathorn wanted the
team to learn the fundamentals of the game
and to become mentally and physically fit.
**T am very pleased with the way we played.
We didn’t win many games, but we learned
a lot of things that will help us in the future,”’
she said.

Sophomore Catherine Baillio led the
team in scoring with seven goals and three
assists. Junior Alexa Salzman contributed
four goals and two assists. Freshman goalie
Sherri Brown made 139 saves and recorded
one shutout.

Men’s Soccer

The W&L men’s soccer team fell short
in its defense of the 1986 ODAC champion-
ship, finishing second in the league with a
3-2 record. The Generals were 7-7 overall.

 

W&L played its best soccer in its last two
games, both shutouts—a 5-0 win over Divi-
sion II Millersville and a 3-0 win over
Averett.

‘*The year did not go the way I expected,
but those last two games were a nice way to
end the season,’’ said head coach Rolf
Piranian.

Sophomore Patrick Brown led the team
in scoring with three goals and six assists.
Senior John Coll added four goals and three
assists. Sophomore goalie Jack Pringle was
credited with four shutouts and stopped 75
enemy shots.

Cross Country

Both of Washington and Lee’s cross
country teams finished third in the ODAC
championships this fall.

Freshman Paige Cason won the women’s
individual title, covering the 5-kilometer
course in a time of 20:25 to break her own
school record by 18 seconds. She was named
ODAC Runner of the Year. A week later,
she finished 21st at the NCAA Division III
South-Southeast Regional meet and dropped
her school record another 47 seconds to
19:38.

 

W&L’s Beth Stutzmann controls the ball in a
soccer match against Hollins College.

‘*T am very pleased for Paige. It was great
to see her effort pay off,’’ said women’s
coach Jim Phemister. ‘‘She is only beginning
to show her potential, so I hope this will be
the start of a great career for her at W&L.”’

In the men’s meet, two W&L runners
earned all-conference honors by finishing
among the top seven runners. Senior Scott
Rippeon was third, running the 8-kilometer
course in a time of 26:14, and junior Bill
Clark was sixth with a time of 26:37.

Clark was W&L’s top finisher in the
South-Southeast Regional, coming in 15th.

Women’s Tennis

The women’s tennis team is still in its in-
fancy (the program began in 1985), but the
Generals have already reached a lofty status
in the region.

During the fall portion of the schedule
W&L won all five of its matches and earned
a No. 4 regional ranking. The split season
in women’s tennis resumes in the spring, and
the Generals will be a leading contender for
the ODAC title.

Freshman Jean Stroman, W&L’s No. 1
singles player, was unbeaten in her five fall
matches. L]

 

WATER POLO (24-6)

W&L 14, Army 9
W&L 24, Lynchburg 5
W&L 22, Dayton 11
W&L 18, UNC-Wilmington 3
Bucknell 12, W&L 10
W&L 15, Slippery Rock 5
W&L 10, Richmond 7
W&L 17, Lynchburg 7
W&L 11, Hampden-Sydney 7
W&L 14, Mary Washington 2
W&L 18, Richmond 11
W&L 23, Mary Washington 2
W&L 23, UNC-Wilmington 5
W&L 13, Richmond 6
_ W&L 12, George Washington 5
| Arkansas-Little Rock 13, W&L 11
- W&L 12, Bucknell 11 (2 OT)
_ Navy 15, W&L 5
_ tona 11, W&L 5
| W&L 15, Hampden-Sydney 3
 W&L 13, UNC-Wilmington 4
| W&L 16, Richmond 12
| W&L 12, George Washington 2
_ W&L 12, Arkansas-Little Rock 9
_ W&L 15, George Washington 2
W&L 16, Richmond 7
W&L 10, Arkansas-Little Rock 9
Bucknell 15, W&L 8
W&L 9, Army 7
Arkansas-Little Rock 8, W&L 6

WOMEN’S TENNIS (5-0)

W&L 7, Hollins 2

W&L 9, Longwood 0
W&L 6, Sweet Briar 3
W&L 8, Mary Baldwin 1
W&L 7, Emory & Henry 2

Fall
Sports
Scoreboard

FOOTBALL (3-6)

Emory & Henry 42, W&L 19
W&L 17, Centre 10

W&L 35, Randolph-Macon 28
Maryville 24, W&L 19
Hampden-Sydney 35, W&L 7
U. of the South 38, W&L 13
Bridgewater 21, W&L 7

W&L 21, Ursinus 7
Georgetown 28, W&L 14

MEN’S SOCCER (7-7)

Shenandoah 4, W&L 1
Greensboro 2, W&L |

Mary Washington 5, W&L 1
W&L 2, Maryville 1 '
W&L 3, Eastern Mennonite 2
W&L 1, Roanoke 0 (OT)
Messiah 3, W&L 0
Lynchburg 4, W&L 1

W&L 2, Gettysburg 1

W&L 1, VMI 0

Johns Hopkins 1, W&L 0
Hampden-Sydney 3, W&L 2 (OT)
W&L 5, Millersville 0

W&L 3, Averett 0

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY (6-2)

Mary Washington 15, W&L 50

Roanoke 22, W&L 41

W&L 41, Norfolk State 57

W&L 27, Catholic 28

W&L 15, Bridgewater 49

W&L 15, West Virginia Tech 71

W&L 18, Eastern Mennonite 56

W&L 15, Hampden-Sydney 61

W&L Placed Third (out of 6) in ODAC
Championship Meet

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY (3-3)

Mary Washington 19, W&L 36

Norfolk State 19, W&L 37

Fifth (out of seven) in Va. State Meet

W&L 18, Emory & Henry 45

W&L 15, West Virginia Tech 50

Eastern Mennonite 28, W&L 42

W&L 42, Lynchburg 54

W&L Placed Third (out of 4) in ODAC
Championship Meet

WOMEN’S SOCCER (2-8-3)

W&L 2, Sweet Briar 2 (OT)
Randolph-Macon 2, W&L 0
Hollins 3, W&L 2
Lynchburg 2, W&L 1 (OT)
W&L 2, R-M Woman’s 2 (OT)
Roanoke 8, W&L 1
Randolph-Macon 5, W&L 0
Roanoke 7, W&L 1

Hollins 1, W&L 0

W&L 2, Sweet Briar 1 (OT)
W&L 1, Lynchburg 1 (OT)
W&L 4, R-M Woman’s 0
Hollins 6, W&L 4

 

 

W&L 27

Alumni News

 

Chapter Recognition Program Criteria Set

 

t its fall meeting, the Washington

and Lee Alumni Association

established a new program to
recognize outstanding alumni chapters.

According to John W. Folsom, ’73,
president of the Alumni Association, the first
winners of the Chapter of the Year Awards
will be selected by March. A committee of
Alumni Board members will make the
selections.

There will actually be two awards
given—one for the best large chapter (more
than 150 members) and one for the best small
chapter.

The selection committee has created a set
of criteria that will be used to select the top
alumni chapters.

“It is important that all alumni know the
criteria that will be used so that they can help
their respective chapters in efforts to be a
winner,’’ Folsom noted.

The criteria are:

1. Number and quality of chapter

meetings;

2. Percentage of attendance at chapter

meetings;

3. Alumni admissions activity;

4. Career assistance activity;
5. Percentage of Annual Fund
participation;

6. Alumni scholarship activity;

7. Compliance with Alumni Chapter
manual;

8. Local alumni efforts for Washington
and Lee, including community in-
volvement and leadership.

The winning chapters will receive their
awards at a chapter meeting and will be
recognized during the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association at the spring reunions.

Keystone newest chapter

The newest Washington and Lee alumni
chapter was organized in November when
alumni from the central Pennsylvania area
met in Harrisburg and created the Keystone
Chapter.

Bill Cook, 69, of Harrisburg was elected
president of the chapter. In addition to
Cook, Dick Budd, ’55, was elected regional
coordinator for the York, Pa., area, and Ned
Grove, ’56, holds the same position for the
Lancaster, Pa., area.

In addition to its organizational meeting
in November, the Keystone Chapter held a

28 W&L

 

tee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

the University.

Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L
McGuire, Woods, Battle

& Boothe
P.O. Box 25047
Alexandria, VA 22313
(703) 549-5900

& Gale

 

Nominating Committee

Each year a three-member nominating committee is empaneled to fill vacant seats
on the Alumni Board of Directors and to elect an alumni representative to the Univer-
sity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the
names and addresses of the members of the Nominating Committee must be published.
The By-Laws stipulate that any members of the Alumni Association may submit names
of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination to the offices to be filled.

The Nominating Committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill five
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and the vacancy on the University Commit-

Alumni may send names directly to any members of the committee or to the com-
mittee through the office of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at

The committee will close its report on April 15, 1988, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May 7, 1988.
Members of this year’s committee and their addresses are listed below:

 

George F. Maynard, ’53
Maynard, Cooper, Frierson,

Watts Building, 12th Floor
Birmingham, AL 35203
(205) 252-2889

Stanley A. Walton IIT, ’62, ’65L
Winston and Strawn

One Ist National Plaza

Suite 5000

Chicago, IL 60603

(312) 558-5767

 

 

planning meeting in December to determine
events for 1988, which included a Lee’s
Birthday Party on Jan. 19.

Chapter activities

The Washington Chapter elected H. Bar-
ton Clark Jr., ’78, as its new president dur-
ing a business meeting in November.

Members of the Philadelphia Chapter
traveled to Collegeville, Pa., on Nov. 7 for
a tailgate party prior to Washington and
Lee’s football game with Ursinus College.
The Generals snapped a four-game losing

streak by capturing a 21-7 victory over
Ursinus.

N. Rick Heatley, associate dean of
students and director of career development
and placement, met with the Baltimore
Chapter in November to discuss the Alumni
Career Assistance Program.

Tim McMahon, ’87, admissions
counselor, was the guest of the New Orleans
Chapter for a reception for prospective
students at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Barry
M. Fox, ’60.

Also in November the Jacksonville
Chapter held a luncheon business meeting

 

 

a

CANADA STAR CRUISE—Seated (from left), MariAnne and Frank Hurt, ’23, of Roanoke;

 

Standing (from left) Norman Allison, ’38, of Washington, Pa.; William H. Fishback Jr., ’56,
and his wife, Sara, of Charlottesville; Charles L. Hobson, ’41, of Frankfort, Ky.; Samuel C.
Williams, 44, and his wife, Audree, of OceanView, Del.; James A. (Jay) Bowersox, 66, and his
wife, Evelyn, of Alexandria, Va.; and Robert B. Patton, ’65, and his wife, Meredith, of

Springfield, Ohio.

 

‘80, the chapter’s president.

while the Atlanta Chapter staged a ‘‘Kegs &
Tapes’’ party.

President John D. Wilson spoke to a din-
ner meeting of the Hilton Head Chapter in
early December.

Several chapters joined alumni from
other Old Dominion colleges and universities
for events during the fall. The San Diego
Chapter staged a cocktail party with Univer-
sity of Virginia alumni. The Detroit Chapter
Participated in an Old Dominion Day
cocktail-buffet at the historic Alger House
of the Grosse Pointe Memorial.

The Chattanooga Chapter participated in
a ‘‘Combo Party’’ with alumni of UVa,

BALTIMORE—Gathered for a meeting of the Baltimore chapter were
(from left) Sam Englehart, ’73; Tom Keigler, ’77; and Art Caltrider,

   
   

KEYSTONE—Participating in the organization of the new chapter
were (seated from left) Dick Budd, ’55; Ned Grove, ’56; and Bob

 

PHILADELPHIA—Wendy and Ned Coslett,
°70, won first prize in the Philadelphia
Chapter’s tailgate competition held prior to
WE&L’s football win over Ursinus College in
Collegeville, Pa. More than 100 alumni and
friends turned out to cheer the Generals.

Wingert, ’54; (standing from left) Dick Brandt, ’63; Ted Achorn, ’72;
and Cromwell Thomas, ’33.

Hollins, Sweet Briar, and Mary Baldwin.
The Charlotte Chapter was part of the fifth
annual Old Dominion Fall Oyster Roast.

As part of the Christmas season, the
Lynchburg Chapter staged its Christmas
dance in early December while the Middle
Tennessee Chapter joined with alumni of
Duke, Harvard, Princeton, Brown, Yale,
and North Carolina for the 4th Annual
Christmas Gala in Nashville.

The New York Chapter’s ‘‘winter enter-
tainment extravaganza’’ was a day at the Big
Apple Circus, which has been presenting
holiday-season performances at Lincoln
Center since 1980.

Alumni cruising

The Fall W&L Cruise to Bermuda aboard
the Canada Star brought several generations
of W&L alumni together, according to cruise
chronicler William H. Fishback Jr., ’56, of
Charlottesville.

Highlights of the cruise included the 88th
birthday of Dr. Frank Hurt, ’23, of Roanoke
and the wedding on Bermuda of Jay (’66)
and Evelyn Bowersox of Alexandria, Va.

Bob Patton, ’65, of Springfield, Ohio,
and his wife, Meredith, got all members of
the alumni group together for an afternoon
of sharing W&L fact and fiction.

W&L 29

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$175.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

NOTE: As of July 1, 1987, the manufacturer is six months behind filling orders.

 

 

30

W&L

William T. Alsop sold his business, Pillans &
Smith, to Kraft Co. in January 1987. He is now
enjoying his retirement in Ocala, Fla.

Charles W. Cocke continues to play golf twice a
week but says the ball is not going as far as it once
did. Yard work, house work, and ‘“‘honey do”’ jobs
take up his other waking hours at his home in
Thomasville, Ga. He is vice commander of the
American Legion’s Post No. 31 and is legislative
officer for his local chapter of the National
Association of Retired Federal Employees.

[335

M. Hoge Crighton Jr. is retired and keeps busy
doing nothing. He and his wife, Evelyn, celebrated
50 years of happy marriage in 1987. They live in

Richmond.
1934

Isadore E. Dattel is a member of the board of
directors for the Bank of Ruleville in Mississippi.
He is a Silver Beaver in the Boy Scouts of America
and a past president of the Mississippi Retail Mer-
chants Association.

Scott Mosovich and his wife, Minerva, celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary this year. They live
in Coconut Creek, Fla.

Neil C. Pascoe is in his 14th year of retirement in
Naples, Fla.

Richard B. Sale is scripting a new film for Charles
Bronson in Beverly Hills, Calif.

1936

Walter B. Eager Jr. says that fishing has been a
hobby for years and that Florida is the perfect
spot. He is a fishing columnist for his hometown
newspaper, the Vero Beach Press-Journal, and
contributes to fishing magazines.

Julius E. Garber retired in December 1986 from
Garber’s Inc., a retail trade company. He lives in
Batesburg, S.C.

Henry H. Staehling is senior vice president of D.
P. Facilities Inc., a company doing ‘‘turn key”’
design and construction projects for very large
main frame computer facilities. He lives in Bed-
minster, N.J.

Edward A. Turville attended his 18th Wimbledon
tennis championship last summer. He was recently
made an honorary member of the All England
Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club at Wimbledon.
He and his wife, Ann, also attended the U.S. Ten-
nis Open championships in New York. They live
in St. Petersburg, Fla.

1937

William H. Armentrout sold his home in
Rockbridge Baths, Va., and moved with his wife,
Sylvia, into Lexington. He enjoys the easy access
to Lexington’s activities.

William C. Wilbur Jr. led a tour group to Great
Britain last summer. Dr. A. Erskine Sproul and
his wife, Ruth, of Staunton, Va., were part of the
tour. Wilbur lives in St. Petersburg, Fla.

 

 

 

1938

MARRIAGE: Cmdr. William B. Bagbey and
Carolyn Bray Smith at St. John’s Episcopal
Church in Roanoke on July 18, 1987. The bride,
who is the widow of the late E. P. Tatum Smith
Jr., 750, was attended by her daughter, Carolyn
V. Smith, a Washington and Lee freshman this
year. Bagbey is a retired commander in the U.S.
Navy. The couple honeymooned in England and
lives in Roanoke.

George F. Bauer Jr. is enjoying retirement in Mid-
dletown, Ohio.

Charles F. Clarke Jr. was recently honored by the
mayor of Cleveland, the Cleveland City Council,
the Ohio House of Representatives, and the Ohio
Senate on ‘‘Charles F. Clarke Day,’’ recognizing
his 17 years of service as president of the Free
Medical Clinic of Greater Cleveland. Beginning
as a drug abuse treatment center, the facility has
grown into a full-service, largely volunteer-staffed,
free clinic for all people, regardless of race, creed,
or ability to pay. The clinic serves approximately
30,000 patients each year. Clarke is an attorney
with the Squire, Sanders & Dempsey law firm in
Cleveland.

Landon Y. Jones is president of the board of
trustees at the St. Louis College of Pharmacy. He
is also a member of the boards for the St. Louis
Children’s Hospital and the Blue Cross/Blue
Shield of Missouri and is a trustee of the St. Louis
Mercantile Library and the United Way of Greater
St. Louis.

John H. Shoaf, as a representative of The
Woodlands (Texas) Rotary Club, visited the
Rotary Club in Belize, Central America, in
September to campaign for the two clubs to
become sister organizations. Shoaf, honorary vice
consul to the Republic of Guatemala and a retired
International Trade Developer, met with the U.S.
Ambassador in Belize to discuss the economic
potential of the tiny country.

A. Ward Archer is publisher of the Memphis
Business Journal, which Inc. Magazine chose as
one of the 500 fastest growing companies in 1987.

Rogers M. Cox is semi-retired from his partner-
ship in Cox & Valdez, certified public accountants
in Hemet, Calif. He lives in Jacinto.

Charles L. Guthrie Jr. retired in June 1987 after
29 years of government service, primarily teaching
in Defense Department schools. He and his wife,
Dorothy, live in Madrid, Spain.

Garret Hiers Jr. retired as a consultant to chemical
industries with Van Horn, Metz & Co. Inc. He
moved from Pennsylvania to Daytona Beach, Fla.

1940

Charles C. Curl Jr. took a two-week cruise to
China and Japan this fall. He lives in St. Simons
Island, Ga.

Homer D. Jones ran into two classmates and one
Other W&L alumnus at an October meeting at
Warren Wilson College in Swannanoa, N.C. Ross
V. Hersey, ’40; Stephen Leonard, ’40; E. Webster
McLeod Jr., ’46; and Jones are interested in this
unique college in the Blue Ridge where the 500
Students have built and maintain their own
facilities and produce their own food.

Lee M. Kenna retired from the practice of law in
Charleston, W.Va., and spends five months each
winter in southern Florida golfing and fishing.

Howard T. Shepherd is retired from insurance,
banking, and the Air Force Reserve but maintains
a downtown office in Little Rock, Ark., for per-
sonal investments and property management. He
and his wife, Margaret, spend their winters on
Sanibel Island in Florida.

1941

Benjamin F. Ashcroft, president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of the Coca-Cola Bottling Cos. in
Sulphur Springs and Nacogdoches, Texas, was
elected to the board of governors of the Coca-Cola
Bottlers Association. He is grandfather to six
children.

Lupton Avery is retired from sales, public rela-
tions, and customer services with Chattanooga
Glass Co. He and his wife, Cleo, live in Chat-
tanooga and have nine children, 12 grandchildren,
and four great-grandchildren.

Theodore A. Bruinsma is a gubernatorial ap-
pointee to the 19-member board of trustees for
California State University, which has 320,000
students on 19 campuses. He is general partner of
a venture capital fund that finances and manages
the transfer of university-related technology to the
commercial sector. He lives in Rancho Palos
Verdes.

William L. Heartwell Jr. retired Jan. 1, 1988, as
executive vice president of Interstate Conference
of Employment Security Agencies Inc., a private,
non-profit organization in Washington, D.C.,
which represents all 50 states in a variety of
legislation.

Robert E. (Buzz) Lee of Pensacola, Fla., par-
ticipated in a Volga Peace Cruise in the Soviet
Union last summer. He was one of 12 World War
II veterans who met with six retired Russian
generals in Moscow. He recounts that when he was
introduced as Robert E. Lee, ‘‘the generals smil-
ed in recognition. They too knew ‘our General’
was dedicated to peace.’’ Each member of the
group agreed that continuation of the nuclear arms
race makes peaceful coexistence increasingly
hazardous.

Harry L. Smith is retired as special assistant to the
Virginia state superintendent of public instruction.
He lives in Richmond.

Richard W. Smith is a retired counsel but keeps
busy with volunteer work, particularly as president
of the board of trustees of Kings Daughters
Hospital in Staunton, Va. He has also been a
member of the Senior All-State Skeet Team for

the past two years.
1942

C. Lane Sartor, a member of the Shreveport (La.)
Geological Society since 1947, received a special
honor in May 1987 for his distinguished contribu-
tion and service to the society as secretary-treasurer
and vice president. Sartor, the author of a number
of papers for society publications, is a certified
petroleum geologist in the A.A.P.G. and has 40
years of experience in geology and exploration in
the Gulf Coast. He has served on numerous com-
mittees in the Gulf Coast Association of Geological
Societies.

Stanley L. Sater is retired from Sater’s Furniture
Co., a retail furniture business. He lives in Mar-

tinsville, Va.
1943

Lee M. Kenna (See 1940).

John N. Peeples is retired from 37 years of prac-
ticing law in Valdosta, Ga. He continues to see

a few clients and travels to Europe each summer.

Donald L. Richardson is serving an appointment
on the NASD Board of Arbitrators. He is general
partner at Roney & Co., an investments and
finance firm in Detroit.

Melvin H. Schept is retired from General Cable
Co. as an application and product design engineer.
He lives in Tarrytown, N.Y.

1944
Thomas D. Crittenden of Westfield, N.J., is an
insurance-reinsurance consultant and serves as an
expert witness in litigation for individuals, for non-
life insurers, for reinsurers, and for law firms. He
also serves as a party-appointed arbitrator and um-
pire in the insurance and reinsurance industries.

John Schuber Jr. of Charlotte enjoys retirement
from Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. and spends
much of his time traveling. He and his wife,
Patricia, spent three weeks in the Soviet Union this
fall.

James C. Stanfield practices solo law in Paris, IIl.,
where he has practiced since 1949.

1945
MARRIAGE: Milton H. Smith II and Anne P.
Bowline of Selma, Ala., in August. The couple
lives in Mary Esther, Fla. Smith lost his wife of
more than 40 years, Callie Rives, in January 1987
after a long struggle with cancer.

Robert O. Crockett Jr. retired from the U.S.
Department of Energy in July, sold his house in
Arlington, Va., and moved back to Media, Pa.,
where his wife, Jean, had continued to live. He
reports that he is happy to have ended the more
than 13 years of weekend commuting.

Elliot S. Schewel is serving his fourth term in the
Virginia Senate. He is vice president of Schewel
Furniture Co. and lives in Lynchburg.

1948

Joseph B. Geyer is retired from the practice of law
in Baltimore. He enjoys golfing in his free time.

William W. Kitchin Jr. is associate professor of
human resources administration at St. Leo Col-
lege, working with the military education degree
program. He also teaches classes at Fort Eustis and
Langley Air Force Base in Virginia. He lives in
Yorktown.

James C. Stanfield (See 1944).

Benton C. Tolley Jr. is retired as partner of the
law firm Goldsborough & Tolley. He lives in
Easton, Md., and enjoys woodworking and golf.

1949

Philip C. Braunschweig is chairman of the Orlan-
do, Fla., chapter of SCORE. He also serves as an
external assessor for Assessment Designs Interna-
tional. In his spare time, he can be found at the
Seminole County Cooperative Extension Center,
where he is Florida Master Gardener. He lives in
Winter Springs.

Dr. D. Earl Brown received the Exceptional Ser-
vice Medal, the highest award given by the ad-
ministrator of the Veterans Administration, in
November 1987. Brown was honored for his ser-
vice as associate deputy chief medical director in
the VA’s Department of Medicine and Surgery.

Leigh Carter, president and chief operating officer
of B. F. Goodrich Co., is focusing his company
on the aerospace and defense business. Goodrich
opened three new plants for that division, which
Carter predicted would contribute more than $30

W&L 31

 

million to the company’s earnings in 1987. Carter
lives in Cleveland.

Mark W. Saurs, president of the Virginia League
of Savings Institutions, has earned the respect of
Virginia state senators and delegates as a lobbyist
for the last 30 years. He was recently featured in
an article in the Richmond News Leader. He lives
in Richmond with his wife, Rosetta.

John Schuber Jr. (See 1944).

Walter H. Williams is retired from Morton G.
Thalhimer Inc., a real estate firm in Richmond.
His 30-year career focused on commercial and in-
dustrial properties. He plans to remain in

Richmond.
1950

Thomas D. Crittenden (See 1944).

Francis W. Lynn retired from 22 years of super-
vision with the Prince William County (Va.) Public
School system. He returned to his native Buena
Vista and teaches Latin part time at Parry McCluer
High School.

Oliver M. Mendell received two major honors dur-
ing the fall. In October, Mendell was presented
the Fifth Avenue Association’s honor award dur-
ing a luncheon in New York City. Mendell is a past
chairman and president of that civic body that
works to maintain the ‘‘quality and integrity of
New York’s most prestigious community: the
Fifth, Madison, Park, Park Avenue South
and Fifty-Seventh Street district.’ During the same
ceremony at which Mendell was recognized, the
Fifth Avenue Association gave awards to Barbara
Walters of ABC-TV and to Leonard Lauder, presi-
dent of Estee Lauder Inc. In November, Brandeis
University presented Mendell with the Brandeis
Distinguished Community Service Award. That
award recognized Mendell’s service as director and
treasurer of the United Service Organizations of
Metropolitan New York, as a trustee of the
Citizens Budget Commission of New York and of
the B’nai B’rith Banking and Finance Lodge, and
as a member of the board of the UJA-Federation
and of the American Jewish Committee.

Dr. Mason G. Robertson, a retired Savannah, Ga.,
physician who battled segregation in medical care,
was honored at an NAACP Freedom Fund din-
ner in November. In 1958, Robertson moved to
Savannah and opened a private practice with a
desegregated waiting room. In the 1960s, he was
a source to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission
regarding the extent of segregation at Savannah’s
Memorial Hospital. He was also instrumental in
inviting the first black medical professor to be a
guest lecturer at Memorial in the early 1970s. He
was a founding member of the Chatham Council
on Human Relations, served several years as presi-
dent of the Chatham-Savannah Health Council,
and led the effort to fluoridate the city’s water.

Milton H. Smith II (See 1945).

1951

Marvin C. Bowling Jr. has been installed as presi-
dent of the American Land Title Association,
whose members search, review, and insure land
titles to protect real estate investors. He is executive
vice president in charge of law and corporate af-
fairs and serves on the board of directors for
Lawyers Title Insurance Corp. in Richmond.

Wesley G. Brown enjoys his work as supervisor
for Olan Mills Inc. in Chattanooga, Tenn.

David C. Kerr of Tampa is serving a four-year
term as chairman of the Florida Transportation

32.  W&L

 

Commission, a new organization that oversees the
State Transportation Network and the Department
of Transportation.

Richard D. Rosenfeld volunteers his time doing
management consulting for ‘‘sick’’ or new com-
panies. He studies American military history and
travels with his wife, Sylvia.

Mark W. Saurs (See 1949).

1952

Ernest H. Clarke, professor of law at Capital
University in Columbus, Ohio, spent the fall of
1987 doing research in Oxford, England, where
he met Roger Crampton, former Frances Lewis
Scholar in Residence at W&L, and H. Laurent
Boetsch Jr., associate professor of romance
languages at W&L.

Helmut H. (Hank) Huber is
director of personnel for
American Rice Inc. in charge
of 400 employees in the com-
pany’s production plant in
Freeport, Texas. The com-
pany, formerly Blue Ribbon
Rice, is a cooperative of
2,300 rice farmers in Texas,
Louisiana, and Mississippi.

Henry I. Willett Jr. plays doubles for Virginia
Beach’s tennis team and in September went to the
U.S.T.A.-Volvo National Championships in Las
Vegas, Nev. The Virginia Beach team finished 3-1,
ranking sixth in the nation. At age 56, Willett was
the second oldest player in the championships.

1953

Crowell T. Dawkins Jr. is retired as president of
Dawkins & McGucken Inc. in Tampa, Fla.

Robert F. Duguay is senior vice president and ex-
ecutive manager of the trust and financial services
division of Penn Security Bank and Trust Co. in
Scranton, Pa. He lives in Waverly.

William A. Hockett Jr. opened the firm of Hockett
& Associates in Menlo Park, Calif. He had been
with the executive recruiting firms of Boyden
Associates and Interdatum. He lives in Los Altos.

Tyson L. Janney is director of development and
external relations at the University of Virginia’s
Darden School. A member of the first graduating
class of what was then called the Graduate School
of Business Administration, Janney is responsi-
ble for alumni affairs, individual and corporate
giving, and the school’s external communications
program. He served as president of Darden’s alum-
ni board from 1976 to 1978, as a member of the
dean’s roundtable, and as a sponsors trustee since
1978. He stepped down as executive vice president
at Richardson, Myers & Donofrio Inc. in
Baltimore but continues his association with the
company on a part-time consulting basis.

1954

Herwig R. Brandstetter is the proud grandfather
of three boys, Dominik, Benedikt, and Nikolaus.
Besides his work as head of the presidial depart-
ment of the Styrian chamber of commerce in Graz,
Austria, he is chairman of the board of trustees
of Graz Congress.

Daniel D. Dickenson is executive director of
Vicar’s Landing, a continuing care retirement com-
munity in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. The facility will
open in 1988.

Walter W. Diggs is superintendent of the Mem-
phis Mental Health Institute.

Dr. Thomas J. Kenny is now president of the divi-
sion of children, youth, and family services of the
American Psychological Association. He teaches
at the University of Maryland medical school.

Laurier T. Raymond Jr. of Lewiston, Maine, an-
nounced the Oct. 1 merging of his law firm, Mar-
shall, Raymond & Bonneau, with another local
firm, Isaacson, Hark & Epstein. He now practices
law under the firm name of Isaacson & Raymond.

Stephen S. Sloan has a contract with Harbor Com-
muter Services Inc. to operate The Pan Am Water
Shuttle from Wall Street in New York City to
LaGuardia Airport. The shuttle operates under the
name of Stephen Sloan Marine Corp.

Carl D. Swanson, professor of psychology at
James Madison University, is president of the
Virginia Counselors Association and chair of the
National Board for Certified Counselors. He lives
in Grottoes.

Sumner Waite Jr. is a financial planner with the
Atlanta-based Glass Financial Group. He and his
wife, Nan, are the parents of two sets of fraternal
twins, ages 19 and 8.

1955

Joseph F. Rowe Jr., vice president and manager
of major commercial accounts for Crestar Bank,
is now in his 27th year of service with the finan-
cial institution. He lives in Hampton, Va., with
his wife, Kent. His son, Joe III, is a junior at

W&L.
1956

John L. Hare has formed his own engineering
company, Hare Engineering Associates, which
does contract engineering for chemical,
mechanical, and industrial facilities. He lives in
Rock Hill, S.C., with his wife, Devorah, and their
two sons, Ashby, 8, and Patrick, 10.

Laurier T. Raymond Jr. (See 1954).

1957
MARRIAGE: Donald S. Luria and Donna Nor-
din in Tucson, Ariz., in June 1987. They planned
to open their second restaurant, ‘‘Los Mayas,”’ in
February. Luria opened his first restaurant, ‘“‘Cafe
Terra Cotta,’’ in July 1986. It was named one of
Arizona’s top nine restaurants in the August 1987
issue of Arizona Trends Magazine. Luria’s wife
is executive chef at the restaurant, which specializes
in regional Mexican cuisine.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Richard B. Raines, a son,
Richard Brodnax Jr., on Oct. 6, 1987. Raines, a
surgeon from Memphis, Tenn., became a grand-
father in November, when his oldest daughter,
Ellen Raines Hendry, delivered her first child.

Lloyd Dobyns participated in the 74th American
Assembly at Columbia University. The assembly
was titled ‘“‘Running Out of Time: Reversing
America’s Declining Competitiveness’? and
brought together 65 leaders from the worlds of
business, labor, the media, academia, and govern-
ment to discuss the United States’ ability to com-
pete in the international marketplace.

Dr. Bernard Schaaf Jr. moved from Lafayette,
Ind., to Glendale, Calif., and practices urology in
Los Angeles.

Carl D. Swanson (See 1954).
1958

Ernest H. Clarke (See 1952).

Samuel C. Dudley is vice president of Scott &
Stringfellow Inc., a Richmond investment firm.

 

Joseph S. Lewis IV moved to Pensacola, Fla.,
where he attends Liberty Bible College.

S. Scott Whipple is senior consultant with New
Haven Consulting Group in Connecticut. He
designs and writes multi-media training programs
for corporate clients. He lives in Stamford.

1959

Thomas D. Frith Jr. is General District Court
Judge for the 27th Judicial District. He lives in
Blacksburg, Va.

George C. (Tim) Hixon of San Antonio, Texas,
is chairman of the conservation committee for the
Boone and Crockett Club, and a member of the
boards of the Nature Conservancy and the African
Wildlife Foundation.

William K. Hughes became president and chief
operating officer on Oct. 1 for the Levinson Steel
Co., a Pittsburgh-based structural steel distribu-
tion company. He joined the company on March
30, 1987, after 27 years with U.S. Steel.

1960

Philip G. Grose Jr. is assistant executive director
of the State Budget and Control Board of South
Carolina. He was director of the State Reorganiza-
tion Commission for 10 years after having served
on the staffs of Govs. Robert E. McNair and John
C. West. He lives in Columbia.

Robert G. Lathrop, tax law professor and associate
dean for academic affairs at West Virginia Univer-
sity College of Law, was acting dean for the fall
1987 term. He lives on a 280-acre farm outside of
Morgantown and made a modest profit on cattle

this year.
196]

William B. McWilliams became president and
chief executive officer of the Raleigh, N.C.-based
First Atlantic Securities Inc. in October.

1962
Dr. Robert P. Carroll Jr. is active in local and state
medical associations in Nacogdoches, Texas. He
is president of the county medical society, a
member of the American Medical InterHospital
Corp., a member of the National Medical Ad-
visory Council, and vice president of the Texas
Medical Association hospital medical staff section.

Rev. L. Douglas Hill Jr. moved to Richmond to
become senior minister of Beulah United
Methodist Church in November 1987. He had serv-
ed Bethel United Methodist Church in Lively, Va.,

for 12 years.
1963

MARRIAGE; Samuel W. Channell and Susan
Dickinson in Elkins, W.Va., on Oct. 26, 1987. The
couple lives in Charleston.

Dr. Michael D. Sussman is professor and head of
the pediatric orthopedics division at the Universi-
ty of Virginia.

Joseph L. Topinka is vice president in charge of
administration for Romano Brothers Beverage
Co., one of the country’s largest distributors of
distilled spirits and fine wines. He lives in Indian

Head Park, Ill.
1964

Louis V. Flanagan Jr. is vice president of Dew Real
Estate Inc. and managing broker of the company’s
Ashland, Va., office. He is a certified residential
specialist, according to the standards of the Board

Of Governors of the National Association of
Realtors.

 

A. Lea Booth, 40, was the 1987 win-
ner of the Jackson Davis Award for
Distinguished Service to Higher Educa-
tion in Virginia. :

Presented by the Virginia Conference
of the American Association of Univer-
sity Professors, the award was for
Booth’s ‘‘long and distinguished service
to higher education in Virginia,’’ par-
ticularly during his 30-year tenure as
founding executive director of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges (VFIC).

Under Booth’s direction, the VFIC
became the most successful of the 40 such
state foundations in the United States.

The award, which had been given only

 

 

Booth presented Jackson Davis Award

Washington and Lee, Emory & Henry,

seven times previously, was established in
1974 in honor of Davis, who served as
state supervisor of rural schools for
Virginia’s Board of Education from 1910
to 1915 and’ was a member of the
Rockefeller-sponsored General Education
Board in New York City from 1915 until
his death in 1947.

Two of the previous recipients of the
Davis Award have been Washington and
Lee alumni—Edgar F. Shannon Jr., 39,
and Sydney (40, ’43L) and Frances
Lewis.

Booth, a native of Danville, Va., has
received honorary degrees from

and Hampden-Sydney.

 

 

1965

Alfred J. T. Byrne is resident managing partner
at the London office of the Dechert, Price &
Rhoads law firm. The office is engaged principally
in international corporate finance and merger and
acquisition transactions. The firm has other of-
fices throughout the United States and in Brussels,
Belgium.

Victor R. Galef is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Association of National Advertisers and
is national coordinator of clients participating in
the Advertising Council’s drug abuse advertising
campaign. He is vice president in charge of
marketing for Rorer Consumer Pharmaceuticals.
He lives in Radnor, Pa.

Robert G. Lathrop (See 1960).

Alan L. Marx teaches antitrust as a lecturer at the
Vanderbilt University School of Law. He is a part-
ner at King & Ballow in Nashville, Tenn., specializ-
ing in the application of antitrust laws to
newspapers and other communication media.

William B. McWilliams (See 1961).
Robert B. Patton recently formed Fluid-Quip Inc.,

which provides engineering assistance and service
to the paper industries. This new company com-
plements Patton’s affiliation with Wespatt Inc.
(formerly Western Tool), which manufactures
small components for the paper industries. He lives
in Springfield, Ohio.

1966
MARRIAGE: James A. Bowersox Jr. and Evelyn
McQueen at Old Christ Church in Warwick, Ber-
muda, on Oct. 21, 1987. Bowersox is staff manager
for Bell Atlantic in McLean, Va.

David T. Shufflebarger was promoted from vice
president for university advancement to assistant
to the president at Old Dominion University and
executive vice president of the ODU Educational
Foundation. He lives in Norfolk.

1967

James H. Cooper is chairman of the board for Life
Care Pastoral Services, a non-profit sponsor of the
Vicar’s Landing $49 million life care project in
Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

S. Bryant Kendrick Jr. established ThoughtWare
Inc. and develops and markets software for

W&L 33

 

businesses and academic institutions. He also
teaches communication and interviewing skills to
residents in the department of internal medicine
at Wake Forest University’s Bowman Gray School
of Medicine. He served the university as chaplain
and instructor in medical education for nine years.

1968

Alfred J. T. Byrne (See 1965).

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Mathews, a son,
William Ballinger, on June 27, 1987. The family
lives in New York City.

Jorge E. Estrada M. founded Jorge E. Estrada
Productions in February 1987. The feature movie
production company is based in Buenos Aires,
Argentina. He continues his activity in oil ventures
throughout Latin America.

1970

William B. Biddle became product manager of the
F. W. Dodge Division of LSI Information Systems
in Crofton, Md., after the recent acquisition of
LSI Systems by McGraw-Hill.

Charles P. Cowell III, chemistry instructor and
department chair at Rancho Santiago College in
Santa Ana, Calif., is on sabbatical completing his
doctoral dissertation at the University of Califor-
nia at Santa Barbara. He is also vice president of
MacOrange, a MacIntosh computer users’ group.

Martin B. Turpin is manager of business planning
and analysis in the operations division of A. H.
Robins Co. Inc. in Richmond.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John G. Stafford Jr., a son,
John G. III, on Jan. 13, 1987. He joins sisters Vic-
toria, 5, and Kathryn, 2. The family lives in Los
Angeles, where Stafford is an attorney with the
law firm of McKenna, Conner & Cuneo.

Dr. Walter B. Beverly is medical director at Moun-
tainwood Rehabilitation Center in Charlottesville,
Va., where he lives with his wife, Joanna, and
l-year-old son, Walter Bryant Jr.

Robert M. Gill, associate professor of political
science at Radford University, will be on sabbatical
in spring 1988 to write an introductory political
science textbook and to conduct research in the
area of comparative Canadian and American con-
stitutional law with regard to intergovernmental
relations.

E. Wren Hudgins, a Seattle psychologist in private
practice, formed a partnership with two
psychiatrists a year ago. Since then the partner-
ship has expanded to include five professionals.
Hudgins recently moved to Issaquah, Wash., with
his wife, Leigh, and their two sons, 7-year-old
Craig and 4-year-old Alex.

John D. Klinedinst practices law in San Diego with
fellow alumni John A. Balistreri, ’78; Kathryn B.
Meadows, ’85L; and Timothy S. Menter, ’87L.
Klinedinst specializes in civil litigation at the firm,
Klinedinst, Fliehman & Rescigno.

Dr. William C. Zattau is director of the Aquatic
Plant Control Operations Support Center for the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Jacksonville,
Fla., where he lives with his wife, Dawn, and
2-year-old daughter, Charlotte.

1972

Beach M. Clark Jr. is consulting manager with Ar-
thur Andersen & Co. He lives in Marietta, Ga.,
with his wife, Stephanie, and their two sons, Beach
III (Trip), 4, and Tyler, 2.

34. W&L

Dr. Fredrick H. Sands practices general internal
medicine at the Virginia Mason Clinic in Seattle.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Scott A. Rieger, a daughter,
Grace Juliana, on Sept. 4, 1987. Rieger received
the MBA from Southern Methodist University in
May 1987. He is senior associate with Christensen
& Associates, an investor relations consulting firm
in Dallas.

BIRTH: W. G. (Garry) Tucker and Jane R.
Marsh, a daughter, Inglis Elizabeth Tucker, on
May 10, 1987. Tucker practices law under the firm
name Marsh & Tucker in Deep River, Conn.

John C. Dovel, a psychologist from Freehold,
N.J., joined five associates in opening private prac-
tice offices in Red Bank in August 1987. Dovel
was elected president of the Monmouth-Ocean
County Psychological Association in July. He has
been adjunct professor at Rutgers Graduate School
of Applied and Professional Psychology since
January 1987 and is the supervisor of graduate
practicum students.

Felix M. Drennen III, executive vice president of
Brice Building Co., a general contracting company
in Birmingham, Ala., is a participant in the com-
munity enrichment program, Leadership Birm-
ingham. He and his wife, Betts, have three
daughters, ages 10, 7, and 4.

Andrew G. Hollinger is a marketing manager for
IBM and is responsible for representatives serv-
ing the insurance industry in the vicinity of
Abilene, Texas. He received the company’s
regional manager leadership award in August for
his work with IBM-Brazil. He lives in Bedford with
his wife, Mary. 7

George S. Lantzas is serving his second term on
the board of trustees of the Anne Arundel Coun-
ty Bar Association. He lives in Arnold, Md., with
his wife, Katie, and two children, Katie and
Tommy.

Nimrod W. E. Long III, president of Nimrod
Long and Associates Inc., Land Planners/Land-
scape Architects, has opened a second firm for the
practice of civil engineering. Nimrod Long and
Associates Engineering Inc. is based in Birm-
ingham, Ala., where Long lives.

Dr. Alexander E. Moser practices general dentistry
in Winston-Salem, N.C., where he lives with his
wife, Melanie, and their three children, 12-year-
old Ben, 9-year-old Rob, and 3-year-old Meghan.
He is president of his local dental society.

John S. Runge is an audit partner with Peat Mar-
wick in Dallas, where he lives with his wife,
Maryann, and their two beagles.

George B. Wolfe is a member of the board of
directors of the Greater Columbia Chamber of
Commerce and is chairman of the Committee of
One Hundred, a Columbia group that promotes
economic development. South Carolina’s gover-
nor recently appointed Wolfe to the Council on
Competitiveness as chairman of the Business In-
centives Committee.

1974

MARRIAGE: P. Bryan Chasney and Katherine
Joanne Villa on Sept. 5, 1987. William P.
Englehart Jr., ’73, was the best man. Groomsmen
included Mark S. Morrill, ’74, and David T. War-
field, ’°75. The couple lives in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: Waller T. Dudley and Julia Cates

of Atlanta on May 16, 1987, in Alexandria, Va.
Groomsmen included Luther H. Dudley II, ’76;

J. Timothy Thompson, ’74; and Gregory B.
Robertson, ’73. Dudley is a partner with the law
firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe and
specializes in civil litigation at the firm’s Alexan-
dria office. He is vice president of the Virginia
Association of Defense Attorneys.

Sterling H. (Skeet) Chadwick is senior vice presi-
dent in charge of client services for PHH Inc., a
Hunt Valley, Md., financial services and fleet
management company. He lives in Timonium with
his wife, Kathryn, and two children, J ennifer, 8,

and Matthew, 6.
1975

MARRIAGE; Lawrence B. Cahoon and Irene
Pearl Kimel on June 20, 1987, in Wilmington,
N.C. Cahoon is associate professor of biological
sciences at the University of North Carolina at
Wilmington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Matthew J. Calvert, a
daughter, Helen Hardie, on July 5, 1987. She join-
ed two sisters, McQueen, 4, and Anne, 2. Calvert
is a partner in the Richmond law firm of Hunton
& Williams.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. S. Lawrence Dumville, a
son, Robert Austin, on Oct. 20, 1987. Dumville
is an attorney with Breeden, Howard & MacMillan
in Norfolk, Va.

Harwell M. Darby Jr. spoke on recent
developments in family law at the Sixth Annual
Family Law Seminar, sponsored by the Virginia
Law Foundation in November. He specializes in
commercial financing and family law at the
Roanoke firm of Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann &
Darby.

Dr. Paul L. Gorsuch Jr. joined the staff in the
department of neurosurgery at Thomas Jefferson
University in Philadelphia on Jan. 1, 1988. He and
his wife, Lea, live in Dover, Del.

James E. Toler Jr. has been promoted to Northeast
sales manager for United Media in New York City.
He lives in Riverside, R.I.

1976

MARRIAGE: P. Craig Dorval and Merrie Ap-
pleman on Aug. 15, 1987. Robert J. Smith, ’76,
was in the wedding party. Dorval was recently
elected chairman of the board of directors for
University and State Employees Credit Union. The
couple lives in Lakeside, Calif.

MARRIAGE; Thomas P. Hudgins Jr. and Janet
Marie Greenhalgh in Virginia Beach on July 25,
1987. Hudgins is assistant director of the middle
school at Norfolk Academy. The couple lives in
Virginia Beach.

MARRIAGE: James P. Watson and Diana West
in October. Watson is assistant features editor at
The Washington Times, where his wife is a movie
critic. They live in Silver Spring, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Frederick L. Bates, a son,
Frederick Lane Jr., on June 24, 1987. The fami-
ly, including Katie, 6, and Carra, 4, lives in New
Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William T. Driscoll III, a
son, Richard Fraser, on June 15, 1987, in Nor-
folk, Va. He joined a 4-year-old brother, Will.
Driscoll is purchasing manager for Virginia-
Carolina Electric Sales Inc. in Norfolk.
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Spencer W. Morten III, a
daughter, Elizabeth Strub, on May 5, 1987. She
joined a sister, Sarah Devon, 3. The family lives
in Martinsville, Va.

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James D. Pearson, a
daughter, Sarah Logan, on July 3, 1987. She join-
ed a 2-year-old sister, Carly Elizabeth. Pearson is
chief financial officer with U.S. Cable Corp. in
Montvale, N.J. The family lives in Ridgewood.

Daniel E. Drennen II has become associated with
the firm of Johnston, Barton, Proctor, Swedlaw
& Naff in Birmingham, Ala. His areas of prac-
tice include estate planning, tax law, and employee
benefits.

Dr. M. Barringer Ellis is chief of otolaryngology
and head and neck surgery at Blanchfield Army
Community Service in Fort Campbell, Ky. His
military obligation will conclude in a little more
than a year, and he is considering various prac-
tice opportunities in the Southeast.

Hiram Ely III chairs a special task force on elec-
tion fraud in Kentucky. Voter fraud has become
a major issue in the Kentucky legislature since the
state’s largest newspaper published a series of ar-
ticles on the subject. He lives in Louisville.

John L. Gray Jr. has been named vice president
of marketing for RTM Inc., an Arby’s franchisee
operating 170 restaurants in 10 states. He and his
wife, Emily, have two children, John L. III (Jack),
5, and Elizabeth, 2.

George S. Lantzas (See 1973).

Robert W. H. Mish III was recently appointed
director of college counseling at St. Anne’s Belfield
School in Charlottesville, Va., where he is head
of the fine arts department.

1S /

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bradley S. Elliott, a
daughter, Emily Christine, on April 28, 1987, in
Houston. Elliott is co-writing an Jllustrated
History of Marvel Comics with Stan Lee, creator
of the Amazing Spider-Man and the Incredible
Hulk. The book will be published late in 1988.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James B. Mallory III, a
son, Madison Andrews, on Oct. 22, 1987. He join-
ed a brother, Bryan, 2, and a sister, McLain, 1.
Mallory is a partner in the law firm of Mattox,
Mallory & Simon in Statesville, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Murphy, a
daughter, Caroline Barnwell, on Sept. 11, 1987.
Murphy works with Murco Drilling Corp. in
Shreveport, La.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Richard F. Rathbone, a
daughter, Elizabeth Faures, on July 28, 1987. She
joined three sisters, Rebecca, 8; Sarah Kline, 6;
and Mary Jackson, 4. The family lives in Clinton,
La., where Rathbone is in general practice.

William D. Cantler II spent a month in Lexington
last summer directing Stonewall Country for Lime
Kiln Arts. Donald H. Baker, ’68, was artistic direc-
tor for the outdoor production. Cantler directed
a limited run of W&L drama professor Tom
Ziegler’s comedy The Last Resort, which opened
Jan. 7 at Triangle Theater in New York City.

Christopher P. Goldsmith is a security officer for
Villanova University. He lives in Crum Lynne, Pa.

Brentano Carl Harnisch Jr. is self-employed as a
cash grain broker and feed ingredients merchan-
diser with B. C. Harnisch Grain and Feed Ingre-
dients Inc. The company is a member of the Texas
Grain and Feed Association, the Texas Cattle
Feeders Association, and Texport Food and
Fiber/Texas Department of Agriculture. Harnisch
lives in San Antonio.

Kenneth S. Voelker is director of information
management for Hayes Microcomputer Products

 

Another State Title for Bob Williams, ’62

For Bob Williams, ’62, the fifth time
must be the charm.

For the fifth time in 14 years, the
Parry McCluer Fighting Blues from
Buena Vista, under Williams’ guidance,
captured the state title
for Division I high
schools. The victory
was a tough one.
Parry McCluer battled
back from a 14-0
deficit on a bitter cold
day to defeat
Strasburg, 21-14.

‘“We really had to
_.. work hard to win this
one,’’ Williams told the Lexington News-
Gazette. ‘‘I’m exhausted and I’m sure the
other coaches and our players are, but this
is One sweet win.”’

Williams has grown accustomed to
sweet wins during his tenure at Parry
McCluer. A native of Buena Vista,
Williams took over as head coach in 1974
and guided the team to a 9-1-1 record and
the Alleghany Highlands district title.
Since that time his teams have compiled
an overall record of 141-28-4, including
a 26-game winning streak in 1977-78.

Under Williams’ coaching, the
Fighting Blues have won 10 straight
district titles, nine regional champion-
ships, and five state championships. His
overall playoff record is 28-5.

Williams played center and linebacker
for Coach Lee McLaughlin as a W&L
freshman. He also played the outfield on

 

 

the Generals’ baseball team for four
years. After graduating in 1962, Williams,
who is also principal of Parry McCluer
Middle School, returned to Buena Vista
where he coached junior varsity football
for two years. He then spent 10 years as
an assistant at Lexington High School
under the legendary Pete Brewbaker
before becoming head coach at Parry
McCluer.

Williams said a simple coaching
philosophy and_ dedicated  stu-
dent/athletes are the contributing factors
to his success at Parry McCluer.

‘*We try to keep things basic and sim-
ple, and we try to make it fun for the
kids,’’ he said. ‘‘We have a large number
of kids who turn out every year. The kids
who turn out always want to make the ef-
fort to be successful.”’

Williams said the fan support at Parry
McCluer has made his job easier.

‘*The support we have, both from the
administration and the city, is tremen-
dous. With just about every away game,
we have as many or more fans as the
home team.”’ .

With five state championships under
his belt, is Williams looking for new
challenges?

‘*T haven’t really thought about retir-
ing from coaching,’’ Williams said, ‘‘but
I suppose I ought to think about it. I do
know that when I leave, I want to go out
a winner.”’

Given Williams’ record of success,
that has already been accomplished.

 

 

Inc. in Atlanta, where he lives with his wife,
Lynne, 3-year-old son, Kenneth Scott Jr., and
l-year-old daughter, Laura Taylor.

Gregory S. Walden, associate deputy attorney
general since July 1986, is serving his sixth year
in the U.S. Department of Justice. He lives in
Alexandria, Va.

1978

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas O. (Ty) York Jr.,
a son, Thomas Oliver III, on June 19, 1987. He
joined a sister, Macon Elizabeth, 3. York is general
manager of York Truck Equipment Inc. in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Arthur A. (Lex) Birney Jr. owns and operates
Chesapeake Sailing School in Annapolis, Md. In
November, he led a 13-boat charter vacation for
80 people in the British Virgin Islands.

Parke L. Bradley is managing director-Europe for
Investment Management Review, a financial
publication that focuses on global asset allocation
and risk management. He lives in Arundel, West
Sussex, England, with his wife, Caroline, and
daughter, Alexandra.

David W. Chester of Cambridge, Mass., works
with Must Software International and markets the
fourth generation language ‘‘NOMAD”’ to the

IBM mainframe marketplace.

Stuart L. Craig Jr. is vice president and director
of marketing for National Digital Corp. in New
York City. The company makes systems for
publications that use the digital transmission of
color images.

Erik S. Greenbaum is a district manager respon-
sible for Virginia and West Virginia with the phar-
maceutical company, Merck, Sharp & Dohme. He
lives in Charlottesville with his wife, Elisabeth, and
daughter, Virginia.

John S. Hudson became operations officer with
Credit Card Service Corp. in December, when he
also left active duty with the U.S. Army and
entered the U.S. Army Reserves. He lives in Alex-
andria, Va.

John D. Klinedinst (See 1971).
Ryland R. Owen is head of the history department

at The Calverton School in Huntingtown, Md. He
lives in Annapolis.

Fred L. Rush Jr. is a law clerk for a federal judge
in Atlanta. He holds a degree from New York
University Law School, where he was a member
of the Order of the Coif.

Benjamin B. Swan finally moved to Brunswick,
W&L 35

 

Maine, with his wife, Emily. During the past year,
the two wrote a mystery novel for juveniles.

Dr. John F. Tompkins II is practicing orthopedic
surgery with his father in Oklahoma City.

1979
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Goddard, a
daughter, Elizabeth Unverzagt, on April 23, 1987.
She joined a brother, Tug, and a sister, Kate. God-
dard is a partner with the law firm of Calfee,
Halter & Griswold in Cleveland.

Matthew J. Calvert (See 1975).
Waller T. Dudley (See 1974).

Ferdinand B. (Win) Harrington III says he has
been caught in the maelstrom of corporate mergers
and acquisitions during the past year. Without
moving from his desk, he has worked for Sperry,
Burroughs, Unisys, and Tenneco. The company’s
name is now Sperry Marine. He spent the sum-
mer Of 1986 in Wales installing computers for the
Milford Haven Harbor Conservancy Board. He
lives in Charlottesville, Va.

H. Graham Hudgins finished his master’s degree
at Oglethorpe University this summer. He teaches
algebra and geometry at The Norfolk Academy,
where he also coaches wrestling and weight train-
ing. He lives in Virginia Beach with his wife,
Elizabeth Ann, and his three daughters, 6-year-
old Charlotte, 5-year-old Priscilla, and 2-year-old
Virginia.

Richard B. Makov is responsible for foreign
mergers and acquisitions in the investment bank-
ing division of the Bayerische Vereinsbank in
Munich, West Germany, where he lives.

Dr. John S. Plowden Jr. has started a pediatric
cardiology fellowship at the Children’s Hospital
in Cincinnati. In June, he finished his pediatrics
residency in Indianapolis.

1st Lt. John R. Sacks is Battalion Motor Officer
at 5-77 Armor at Mannheim, West Germany. He
and his wife, Tina, have two children, Katie, 3,
and Melanie, 1.

Carlos C. Solari is in command of C-Company,
141 Signal Battalion, in Ansbach, West Germany.

John C. Tompkins is a broker with the firm of
Alex, Brown & Son in Baltimore. He lives in
Lutherville, Md., with his wife, Sara Lee, and his
two sons, 3-year-old Jack and 1-year-old Scott.

1980
MARRIAGE; Richard N. Sutton and Lynne M.
Wood in Baltimore on Sept. 26, 1987. Groomsmen
included Geoffrey H. Brent, ’81; Brian C. Doub,
°81; Stuart S. Rienhoff, ’81; and John M. Black,
’79. The couple lives in Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gregory B. Dyer, a
daughter, Kathryn Margaret, on April 3, 1987.
Dyer is a certified public accountant with Lively,
Rutland & Dyer. The family lives in Bethesda, Md.

Dr. G. Brian Bauer is completing his third year
as a resident in internal medicine at the Universi-
ty of Wisconsin.

Paul C. Becht has been awarded the Chartered
Financial Analyst (CFA) designation by the
trustees of the Institute of Chartered Financial
Analysts.

Douglas C. Dorsey is an associate broker with
Virginia Landmark Corp., a real estate
brokerage/development company in Richmond.

Robert E. Lee is vice president in charge of
regional banking for the Bank of Oklahoma. He
lives in Oklahoma City with his wife, Elaine.

36 —W&L

Dr. Edward C. Morrison is a fourth-year surgical
resident in Charleston, S.C., where he lives with
his wife, Rosalyn, and their 22-year-old daughter,
Rosalyn Bates.

Richard L. Moss is a copy editor with the
Rochester, N.Y., Democrat and Chronicle. He
lives in Albion with his wife, Pat.

James H. Parker is a reporter covering North
Charleston, S.C., city government for Post-
Courier newspapers in Charleston. He lives in
Mount Pleasant with his wife, Henrietta.

Capt. Joseph K. Wallace is commanding a tank
company in the Ist Battalion, 37th Armor, in West
Germany. He will take command of the Head-
quarters Company in May.

1981
MARRIAGE: J. Ross Newell III and Garland
Elizabeth Barksdale in Petersburg, Va., on Oct.
17, 1987. Groomsmen included Richard C. Keatley
Jr., ’81, and James R. Small, ’81. Newell is an at-
torney with Christian, Barton, Epps, Brent &
Chappell in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Stuart S. Rienhoff and Patricia
Atkinson on June 13, 1987. Rienhoff is a com-
mercial real estate agent with O’Connor, Piper &
Flynn Inc. in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: Clara Yue (W&L exchange student,
1980-81) and Michael Dean on Dec. 5, 1987, in
Berkshire, England.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Nate L. Adams III, a son,
Robert Hilton, on Feb. 28, 1987. Adams is
associated with the law firm of Hall, Monahan,
Engle, Mahan & Mitchell in Winchester, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Alfred R. Hintz, a
daughter, Amy Michele, on May 11, 1987. Amy
joined a brother, Andrew, 3. Hintz is an associate
with the law firm of O’Connor & Hayes in
Sayville, N.Y.

George D. Fagan is a partner in the newly form-
ed law partnership of Leake & Andersson in New
Orleans.

John J. Fox III is a sales representative with
Southern Educators Life Insurance Co. in Atlan-
ta. The company, which specializes in securing
guaranteed student loans for students who are not
yet college-age, has more than $13 million invested
in college tuitions this year. Fox resigned from the
U.S. Army in the fall, having reached the rank of
captain.

Channing M. Hall Ill received a juris doctor degree
and a master of law in taxation from the College
of William and Mary’s Marshall-Wythe School of
Law. He was recently admitted to the Virginia bar.

Matthew J. Harris is president and chief executive
officer of Chatham Knitting Mills Inc., a manufac-
turer of men’s and women’s sportswear. He lives
in Danville, Va.

Stuart A. Mason is an airport terminal agent at
John F. Kennedy Airport in New York. He lives
in Rego Park.

Edward L. Mintz began a podiatric surgical
residency at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J.,
on Jan. 1. He had been working as a podiatrist
in New York City. He lives in Englewood, N.J.

Robert B. Neely has been appointed by Gov.
Clements to a six-year term on the nine-member
governing board of the Texas State School for the
Deaf in Austin. Neely is also on the board of
trustees of the Callier Center for Communicative
Disorders in Dallas. He is vice president and chief
financial officer for Transland Management, a

commercial real estate investment firm. He and
his wife, Laura, live in Dallas.

Jefferson J. Reiter earned the MBA from the
University of Michigan in May 1987 and is now
a research analyst for Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Co. in New York City.

Peregrine Roberts is an industrial real estate broker
with Carey Winston Co. in Washington, D.C.

William Jeffrey Roberts is manager of the
Roanoke office of Branch, Cabell & Co. Having
joined the company in June 1983, he is now a part
of Branch Cabell’s Golden Roundtable.

Eugene B. Shepherd works in the Emerging
Growth/Technologies Group of Corporate
Finance for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. He
lives in New York City.

Capt. Jay W. Stewart II is deputy to the chief of
communications engineering for the Air Force
Satellite Control Network with the Head Quarters
Air Force Space Division at Los Angeles Air Force
Base. He lives in Long Beach.

Charles G. Stinnett Jr. is involved in the trucking
industry and is president of Piedmont Recycling
Corp. He is also a part-time farmer at his home
in Rixeyville, Va., and writes fiction and poetry
as a hobby.

Douglas W. Werth and his family have moved to
Richmond, where he is a cost accountant with
Philip Morris, USA.

1982

MARRIAGE: Edmund P. Perry and Ann Dalzell
on Oct. 10, 1987, in St. Louis. Participating in the
wedding were Charles D. Perry Jr., ’73; Gordon
E. Atkins, ’82; John W. McIntyre Jr., ’82; Ray-
mond F. Long, ’82; John W. Williams, ’82; and
Warren M. Wilson, ’85. Perry is an associate with
the law firm of Burr & Forman in Birmingham,
Ala.

MARRIAGE: Capt. Thomas A. Pizzano and
Teresa Lynn Curl of Indianapolis on May 8, 1987.
Pizzano is stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C.
MARRIAGE: Patricia E. Sinskey and Dr. John
D. Wynn on Sept. 20, 1987. The couple lives in
Los Angeles.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary A. Johnson, a

_ daughter, Margaret Claire, on Oct. 15, 1987, in

Baltimore. She joined a 2-year-old sister, Saman-
tha. Johnson is in his second year of residency at
Johns Hopkins University in emergency medicine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Phillip Rockecharlie,
a son, Ryan Tucker, on Aug. 24, 1987, in
Charlotte. Rockecharlie works with Charlotte Steel
Drum.

William D. Alfano is assistant vice president and
commercial banking manager for First Union Na-
tional Bank of Charlotte in Chapel Hill, N.C.

Gordon E. Atkins is pursuing an MBA at the
University of Texas at Austin.

William G. Benson has been promoted to associate
with the accounting firm of Keefe, McCullough
& Co., Certified Public Accountants, in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. He has been employed with the
firm for four years.

Johnathan W. Bryan is associated with the law
firm of Bryan, Bahnmuller, King, Goldman &
McElveen in Sumter, S.C.

Michael J. Collier recently completed a tour of
duty with the U.S. Army in El Salvador as officer
in charge of the helicopter detachment. He left the
Army in November to enter a family business and
lives in Westlake, Ohio.

 

Ehrick K. Haight Jr. is associated with Hughes &
Wieters, P.A., on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

Dr. Scott T. Howell is an emergency room physi-
cian in Durham, N.C., and uses his spare time to
write electronic music. He hopes to work on a
score for a musical play and to release a tape of
original music this spring.

Lawrence C. Norford practices commercial litiga-
tion with the Philadelphia law firm of Stradley,
Ronon, Stevens & Young. He lives in Princeton,
N.J.

Thomas Y. Savage was unsuccessful in his bid for
a seat in the Virginia General Assembly in
November. He practices law privately in Rem-
ington and lives in Fredericksburg with his wife,
Julia.

Russell H. Stall is pursuing an MBA at Emory
University in Atlanta.

1983

MARRIAGE: Millard L. (Milo) Fretland and Deb-
bie Ann Miller at First Presbyterian Church in
Pensacola, Fla., on Sept. 19, 1987. Steven J.
Tranelli, °83L, and John W. Person, ’83L, were
in the wedding party. The couple honeymooned
in Toronto. Fretland is an attorney with the Pen-
sacola law firm of Clark, Partington, Hart, Hart
& Johnson.

MARRIAGE: Robert S. Griffith III and Lee Bar-
tholomew Denny on May 30, 1987, in Atlanta.
Griffith’s father, Robert S. Griffith Jr., and the
bride’s father, Richard A. Denny, are members
of the Class of 1952. The groom works with the
Atlanta real estate company, Griffith & Associates.

MARRIAGE: C. Jay Robbins IV and Lynn D.
Meislohn at Christ and St. Luke’s Episcopal
Church in Norfolk, Va., on May 30, 1987.
Groomsmen included John M. McGarry, ’83L;
Eric A. Anderson, ’82L; and R. Bruce Myers Jr.,
°82L. Robbins is an attorney at the Chesapeake,
Va., law firm of Outland, Gray, O’Keefe &
Hubbard.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Daniel H. Mason, a son,
Wesley Thompson, on July 31, 1987. Mason is
staff attorney with Northeast Kentucky Legal Ser-
vices Inc. in Morehead, Ky.

Andrew H. Backus is pursuing a master’s degree
in energy and mineral resources at the University
of Texas at Austin. He works part time as a
geologist in the Hazardous Waste Group of IN-
TERA Technologies Inc.

J. Ambler Cusick is a senior account manager with
ITT WorldCommunications, handling embassy
and commercial accounts in the Washington-
Baltimore area. He had spent more than three
years in New York City and now lives in Bethesda,
Md.

Howard E. Gill III is an intern at Riverside
Hospital in Newport News, Va.

Martha L. Goodloe is an associate with the law
firm of Kortenhof & Ely in St. Louis.

Carol L. (Leizh) Hoshall is the third W&L
graduate in a row to clerk for Judge Bostetter of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court (E.D. Va.) in Alex-
andria. She followed Andrea Hilton, ’85L, and
Richard E. Lear, ’83L. Hoshall is no longer in the
U.S. Navy but continues to serve in the reserves.

Kenneth W. Johnstone is working on a transitional
internship in Greenville, S.C., and will begin a
residency in anesthesiology at Vanderbilt Univer-
sity in July.

Capt. John M. McGarry is a U.S. Marine Corps
prosecutor in Twentynine Palms, Calif.

Stephen D. Palmer is assistant vice president of
finance with Capital Homes Inc. in Bethesda, Md.,
where he lives with his wife, Deborah.

Christopher Burr Power practices law with the firm
of Robinson and McElwee in Charleston, W.Va.,
where he lives with his wife, Elizabeth.

Howard H. Smith is director of the Eastern region
for the affiliate sales and marketing group with
MTV Networks Inc. He lives in New York City
with his wife, Lisa.

Dr. John S. Solitario, a 1987 graduate of the
Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse, N.Y.., is a resi-
dent in anesthesiology at the University of Florida
Medical Center in Jacksonville, Fla.

1984
MARRIAGE: Richard M. Dunn III and Susan
Marie Clay of Richmond on March 7, 1987. Dunn
is a branch operations manager for Sovran Bank
in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Donald W. Richardson and Meg
Kimbirl on June 13, 1987. Richardson is a
hydrogeologist at a consulting firm in Denville,
N.J. The couple lives in Randolph.

Martin J. Bechtold is events and promotions coor-
dinator for Stabler Athletic and Convocation
Center at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa. He
had been an intern at Rosemont Horizon in
Chicago, working on all aspects of event manage-
ment activities. He holds a master’s degree in
sports administration from Ohio University.

Raymond A. Ceresa graduated from Wake Forest
University School of Law in May 1987. He works
in the litigation section of the law firm of Rees,
Broome & Diaz in Tysons Corner, Va.

Melville P. Cote Jr. is canvass director for the
League of Conservation Voters’ regional office in
Manchester, N.H. He recently participated in Vote

Environment’s presidential candidates forum in
New Hampshire.

John P. Domeika received his law degree in May
1987 from the T. C. Williams School of Law at
the University of Richmond. He passed the
Virginia bar examination and is an associate with
Crews & Hancock in Richmond, where he lives
with his wife, Amy.

Lee R. Feldman was recently commissioned an en-
sign in the U.S. Naval Reserves. He is assistant
city manager of North Miami Beach in Florida.

David R. Harcus is attending Duke University’s
Fuqua School of Business on a Fuqua Fellowship
and pursuing an MBA with an emphasis on
finance. He is co-author of an article concerning
a DNA probe for Bordetella pertussis, which he
undertook at the University of Virginia. He recent-
ly submitted the article to the Journal of
Bacteriology.

James N. L. Humphreys is working in Abingdon,
Va., as an associate with the law firm of Penn,
Stuart, Eskridge & Jones. He concentrates primari-
ly on insurance defense work. He was sworn into
the Virginia Bar on Oct. 20.

Richard R. Rosser earned a master’s degee in film-
making from New York University and is now a
producer for Broadcast Arts, a commercial pro-
duction house in New York City.

G. Leighton Stradtman is an associate with the
Atlanta law firm of Parker, Johnson, Cook &
Dunlevie, where he works in the real estate and
corporate departments.

MARRIAGE: Craig N. Waddell and Angelika
Strecker in Linz, Austria, on Aug. 22, 1987. Best
man Mark W. Weaver, ’85, traveled from

Holland, where he is stationed in the U.S. Army.
Clarke H. Morledge, ’85, of Williamsburg, Va.,
and Robert P. Dorais, ’85, of Waterbury, Conn.,
performed the ‘‘Wedding Song’’ at the evening

 

 

program following the wedding. James H. Gor-
don III, ’81, traveled from Deland, Fla., to attend
the wedding. The couple met when Waddell serv-
ed as a Southern Baptist missionary in Austria.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Everett G. (Gib) Kerr, iden-
tical twin daughters, Reagan Marlene and Erin
Gibson, on Oct. 22, 1987. Kerr is a second-year
student at the University of Virginia Darden
School of Business. The family lives in Earlysville.

Ian G. Banwell is a bond trader for Kansallis-
Osake-Pankki, a Finnish bank in New York City.
He formerly worked for North Carolina National
Bank in Charlotte.

R. Paul Dorais is senior accounting clerk in the
travel and entertainment department at
Chesebrough-Pond’s Inc. in Trumbull, Conn. He
is also tenor soloist at First Congregational Church
of Litchfield and has sung contemporary Chris-
tian songs on Waterbury Cable TV and at Full
Gospel Businessmen’s testimonial dinners.

Terrance J. Dunn, an associate in the Los Angeles
office of the Morgan, Lewis & Bockius law firm,
was the 1987 winner of the Commissioner’s Award
of the Rotisserie League.

David M. Hollis is a staff accountant in the finance
department of USA Today in Arlington, Va. He
lives in Springfield.

J. Ross Newell III (See 1981).

David L. Perdue is a commercial real estate broker
with Cauble and Co. in Atlanta. He lives with
Samuel B. Hollis Jr., ’83.

1986
MARRIAGE: Jonathan Lamar Elder and Helen
Wood Cheshire on July 18, 1987, in Alexandria,
Va. Groomsmen included William G. Bloom, ’86,
and David D. Lewis, ’86. Elder is a tax accoun-
tant for Price Waterhouse in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: Robert S. Hughes and Jill Ripley
in Pittsburgh on Nov. 21, 1987. Hughes is an ac-
count executive with Kayer-Roth, a hosiery com-
pany in Richmond.

MARRIAGE; J. Christopher Spear and Stephanie
Lynn Kerns on Nov. 1, 1987, in Baltimore. Spear
works with the mutual funds investment firm of
T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE; William J. Vailliencourt Jr. and
Georgiana Fenton on Oct. 24, 1987. John L. Rad-
der, ’86L, was in the wedding party. Vailliencourt
is an assistant prosecuting attorney for Oakland
County, Mich. The couple lives in Farmington
Hills.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Ron L. Moody, a daughter,
Briana Lee, on July 26, 1987. She joined a 2-year-
old sister, Rebekah. Moody is a student at the
University of South Alabama College of Medicine
in Mobile.

Lawrence S. Anker is a graduate student at Penn-
sylvania State University after spending a year in
Germany courtesy of the Fulbright Commission.

Guy A. Caldwell is pursuing a master’s degree in
biotechnology at the University of Tennessee,
where he is instructor of the Recombinant
DNA/Biotechnology Laboratory. He recently
completed an internship as a molecular biologist
with the Burroughs Wellcome Co. in Research
Triangle Park, N.C.

Joseph C. Campbell Jr. is a second-year medical
student at the University of Virginia.

J. David deHoll is a first-year medical student at
the University of Virginia. He spent last year

38) W&L

backpacking throughout the Rockies and doing
research in the department of pharmacology at the
Medical University of South Carolina.

J. Caulley Deringer is a commercial leasing
representative with Carey Winston Co. in Vien-
na, Va. He lives in Arlington.

Lee M. Hollis is a corporate banking representative
with First Union National Bank in Nashville,
Tenn.

Paul M. James Jr. is a project manager with First
Atlantic Financial Corp. and its subsidiary First
Atlantic Securities Inc., which performs investment
banking and financial consulting services for banks
and savings and loan institutions in the Southeast.
James rooms with W&L classmate Randolph L.
Ellis.

Arthur A. Kandarian, who completed a Jump-
master course and graduated from the U.S. Army
Ranger School, is a platoon leader in the 82nd Air-
borne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C.

David D. Lewis earned a master’s degree in
physiology from Georgetown University and is
now a first-year medical student at the University
of Virginia.

John B. Lewis has been promoted to the invest-
ment division of Central Fidelity Bank in Lynch-
burg, Va.

1st Lt. Kenneth L. Lindeman is a systems analyst
in the automation staff section of the U.S. Army
Corps in Frankfurt, West Germany. He is also pur-
suing a master’s degree in computer information
systems from Boston University.

Robert G. McCullough Jr. attends the Owen
Graduate School of Management at Vanderbilt
University.

Townes G. Pressler Jr. is a lender in the oil and
gas department at Texas Commerce Bank in
Houston.

Gerald D. Shepherd is pursuing a degree from Col-
umbia Law School and lives in New York City.

George C. Spigener III qualified for the 1987 U.S.
Wildwater Team in May on the Crystal River in
Colorado. He then traveled to Bourg St. Maurice,
France, to participate in the 1987 World
Whitewater Championship July 10-19. His team
placed seventh in the race. Spigener lives in Winter
Garden, Fla.

James J. Strader has been named the South
Carolina bureau chief for the Augusta Chronicle
and Augusta Herald in Augusta, Ga.

MARRIAGE: Powell Hamilton Smith and Ellen
Bryan Tozzer on Sept. 5, 1987, in Atlanta.

James D. Crutchfield is a member of the Virginia
bar and is an associate at the Norfolk law firm of
Heilig, McKenry, Fraim & Lollar.

Thomas S. Eustis is an associate in the Orlando,
Fla., office of Holland & Knight, a firm which
employs 200 lawyers in seven offices in Florida and
Washington, D.C. Eustis is a member of the
Florida bar.

Hyla Flaks passed the Connecticut bar and began
working with the New Haven law firm of Wiggin
& Dana in September.

James N. L. Humphreys (See 1984).

In January John R. Maass attended the U.S. Ar-
my Transportation Corps Officer Basic Course in
Fort Eustis, Va. He is employed with Hecht’s in
Arlington as a merchandising executive trainee.

Roby D. Mize, an analyst with Morgan Stanley
& Co., has been transferred from New York to
San Francisco. He continues to play tennis
regularly.

David A. Shugart is enrolled in the U.S. Army’s
officer basic course for artillery in Fort Sill, Okla.
He has received orders to be stationed in West Ger-
many beginning in June.

 

In Memoriam

 

1908

Dennis Rogers Bell died Oct. 14, 1987, in Bremer-
ton, Wash., at the age of 102. He was retired as
a special representative in the office of the vice
president at Peoples Gas, Light & Coke of
Chicago. He had been in charge of public and in-
dustrial relations when he retired in 1950. At one
time he managed two Chicago theatres and was
a full-time guard at the Chicago Art Institute.

1923

Melville Irvine Dunn Jr., retired senior vice presi-
dent of Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co., died
Nov. 3, 1987. He joined C&O as a rodman in 1916
but resigned two years later to attend Washington
and Lee. After graduating with a degree in civil
engineering, he rejoined the company as in-
strumentman in the construction department in
Huntington, W.Va. In 1964, he retired from the
company but continued as a railway consultant un-
til 1970. W&L bestowed an honorary doctor of
science degree on him in 1957. He served the
University as a class agent for two years. Dunn
was a life member of the American Railway
Engineering Association and while living in Hun-
tington served as director for First Huntington Na-
tional Bank, The Huntington Galleries, the Cam-
mack Children’s Center, and the Boys Club. He
lived in Pompano Beach, Fla., at the time of his

death.
1925

Conrad Taylor Altfather died Aug. 27, 1987, at
his home in Cape Coral, Fla. After working three
years as a laborer for Armour Co. in Texas, he
entered W&L and earned a degree in electrical
engineering. Upon graduation, he entered a one-
year graduate student course conducted by
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co. and
was employed with the company (now
Westinghouse Electric Corp.) until his retirement
as a relay design engineer in 1967. During his
career, he received many patents, his relay designs
for submarines and destroyers during World War
II being the most significant. Altfather lived in
New Jersey for most of his life, where he served
the Basking Ridge Presbyterian Church as elder,
clerk of session, and trustee for more than 30
years.

James Dobbin Holmes Jr. died July 27, 1987, in
Jacksonville, Fla. After attending Washington and
Lee for one year, he continued his education at
the Pierce School of Business Administration in
Philadelphia. He then entered the lumber and
building material business. Starting as a salesman
for Foley Lumber Co. in Jacksonville, he worked
his way through every department and retired as
an officer after more than 40 years with the com-
pany. He was a member of the Florida Yacht Club
and the Friars Club.

 

1927

Boyd Randolph Gasque Jr., a resident of
Maryfield Nursing Home in High Point, N.C.,
died Oct. 12, 1987. Originally from Rockingham,
N.C., he attended Washington and Lee for one
year. He was a retired independent manufacturer’s
representative for display items and was a member
of First United Methodist Church in Rockingham.

1928

Gerald Francis Horine, a retired manager for Ford
Motor Co., died Nov. 8, 1987, in Alexandria, Va.,
where he had lived since 1935. After attending
W&L, he spent six years in the aircraft business.
In 1935, he became an accountant for Ford in
Alexandria. Besides a two-year special assignment
with the War Production Board during World War
II, Horine stayed with Ford until retiring in 1965
as business management manager of the com-
pany’s Lincoln-Mercury division in Washington,
D.C. During his lifetime, he was on the board of
directors for the Alexandria chapter of the
American Red Cross, was a member of the Alex-
andria Hospital Corp., and was on the board of
governors for St. Stephen’s Boys’ School. He was
a member of the Belle Haven Country Club and
a charter member of the Alexandria Junior
Chamber of Commerce. He also was a former
vestryman at Immanuel Church-on-the-Hill

Episcopal Church.
1930

George Douglas Vermilya died Aug. 15, 1987, in
Lynchburg, Va., where he had lived since 1986.
After attending W&L, he graduated in 1932 from
the Medical College of Virginia. In 1940, he ac-
cepted a position to practice surgery at the Clinch
Valley Clinic Hospital in Richlands, Va. During
World War II, he served in the U.S. Army as a
surgeon and reached the rank of lieutenant col-
onel. He retired as chief of surgery from Clinch
Valley Clinic Hospital in 1977 but maintained his
general practice until 1983. Vermilya was a
member of the American College of Surgeons, the
Southern Surgical Society, and the Medical Society
of Virginia. He was a former member of the
Tazewell County School Board and was an elder
at Richlands Presbyterian Church.

1932

Robert Wimbrow (Red) Phillips, a lifelong resi-
dent of Berlin, Md., died Nov. 7, 1987. After
graduating from W&L, he joined his father’s cann-
ed foods company, J. Richard Phillips Jr. & Sons,
and had served as its president for 24 years when
he retired. He was mayor of Berlin from 1956 to
1958 and was a member of the Worcester County
School Planning Board and the Worcester Coun-
ty Planning and Zoning Commission, director of
the Maryland Manufacturing Association, a
trustee of Buckingham Elementary School, and
president of the Berlin Lions Club and the Berlin
Businessmen’s Association. He was also a publish-
ed photographer and an expert on Assateague
Island and the Pocomoke River.

1936

Dr. Kenneth Gordon MacDonald, a retired
Charleston, W.Va., surgeon, died Nov. 26, 1987.
After attending W&L, he earned a degree from
Cornell University Medical College in 1940. While
an intern at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York Ci-
ty, he was drafted into the U.S. Army and served
four years in the medical corps. In 1946, he return-
ed to Lenox Hill as a resident in surgery, then join-
ed the staff of Staats Hospital in Charleston, and
was later chairman of the department of surgery

at Memorial Hospital in Charleston. In 1984, he
closed his private practice and joined the staff of
West Virginia University School of Medicine. Mac-
Donald was a member of the Rotary Club and
served on the executive board of the Boy Scouts
of America. He was a past president of the
Kanawha Medical Society and of the American
Business Club, and a member of the executive
board of the Charleston Boat Club. He was a
Robert E. Lee Associate of W&L and had served
as chairman of the deaconate at Baptist Temple

in Charleston.
1940

James Raymond Roberts died Sept. 1, 1987, in
New Albany, Ind. In 1940, he accepted a position
as a supervisor at a Charlestown, Ind., plant for
duPont Co. After World War II, he was transfer-
red to Newark, N.J., and then joined the New
Albany-based Galvan Manufacturing Co. in 1947
as assistant manager in charge of production. In
1962, he became president of the company and
served in that capacity until his death. He was a
member of the Philadelphia Yearly Meeting of the
Religious Society of Friends.

1942

David Powers Pardee died at his home in Stuart,
Fla., on Oct. 20, 1987. After attending W&L, he
served in the U.S. Army Air Force for four years
as an aerial gunnery instructor and a personnel
technician. Following his military service, he work-
ed as a lemon rancher.

John Thomas Vanta died May 25, 1987. After at-
tending W&L for two years, he spent two years
at the New York State Maritime Academy. He
served in the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1942 until
1946, first as an ensign, then as a lieutenant junior
grade, and finally as a lieutenant. He returned to
the Maritime Academy and graduated in 1949. At
the time of his retirement, Vanta was an engineer
and mechanical designer with Grumman
Aerospace Corp. in New York. He was in charge
of design groups in the production of electronic
consoles, aircraft handling equipment, special
devices, advance proposals, and concepts for new

products.
1945

Robert Sewell Mizell died Oct. 2, 1987, in Dallas,
Texas. After attending W&L, he earned a law
degree from the University of Texas. He was senior
partner of the law firm, Taylor & Mizell. During
World War II, he served as combat duty infantry
staff sergeant in the European theatre. He was a
member of the Dallas Country Club.

1949

Milton Brown (Mickey) Henson of Buena Vista,
Va., died Nov. 3, 1987. After serving during World
War II, he earned a commerce degree from W&L
and then became manager of the Lexington radio
station, WREL. He managed the station until the
Rockbridge Broadcasting Corp. sold it in 1977. He
also owned The Henson Realty Co. He was past
president of the Virginia Association of Broad-
casters, of Blueridge Cable Television Corp., and
of Rockbridge Broadcasting Corp. He also was
past chairman of the board of First National Ex-
change Bank and past chairman of the Buena Vista
School Board. Henson was a charter member of
the Buena Vista Lions Club and was a member
of the Buena Vista Baptist Church.

1952

Edwin Hinks Rinker Jr. died Feb. 25, 1987.

1961

Donald William Thalacker, an architect and direc-
tor of the Art-in-Architecture Program for the
General Services Administration, died Aug. 20,
1987, in Washington, D.C. After attending W&L,
he earned an architecture degree from the Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley in 1967. In 1973, he
became special assistant to the director of the Con-
tract Systems Division in the Public Building Ser-
vice of the General Services Administration. A
registered architect in the state of Maryland,
Thalacker was the author of The Place of Art in
the World of Architecture. In 1985, President
Reagan bestowed the ‘‘Presidential Design
Award’’ on him. He was a member of Hidden
Creek Country Club in Reston, Va., where he had
lived from 1981 to 1986.

1981

Aric Wayne Johnson died Nov. 21, 1987, of
diabetes mellitus. After graduating with highest
honors from Kecoughtan High School in Hamp-
ton, Va., he earned two degrees from Washington
and Lee, a bachelor of science in business ad-
ministration and a bachelor of arts in psychology.
While a W&L student, he participated in varsity
swimming and water polo, intramural sports, and
the Young Republicans club. Since attending
W&L, he had been employed with Hampton City
Schools as a substitute teacher and with the Daily
Press-Times Herald newspaper as sales supervisor.
At the time of his death, he lived with his parents
in Hampton and worked as an accountant for
property management at Harrison & Lear.

 

W&L 39

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

EDITOR:

How sad that, to this day, no one at
Washington and Lee seems to believe that lacrosse
was played there as early as 1937. Dr. John Bax-
ter, rest his soul, was not our first lacrosse coach;
it was instead Dr. L. Whiting Farinholt, also a pro-
fessor at the University.

Some years ago I sent the Alumni Magazine
a box of old Ring-tum Phi’s—vintage
1938-42—which consisted mostly of lacrosse clip-
pings. I was told that the magazine editors would
like to have these in order to prepare a history of
the earliest days of lacrosse at W&L for possible
publication in the magazine. It’s never happened
and, again, how sad that it probably never will.
We beat the University of Virginia regularly each
year.

Epcar M. Boyp, 42
Baltimore, Md.
(Mr. Boyd refers to the September/October issue
in. which Dr. Baxter’s obituary includes mention
that he ‘‘is believed to have been W&L’s first
lacrosse coach.’’ Apparently that information per-
sists since Washington and Lee first joined the U.S.
Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association in 1947 when
Dr. Baxter was the coach. Clearly, however, Mr.
Boyd is quite right that the sport was played at
the University at least a decade earlier.—Eds.)

EDITOR:

Back in February 1986, the Alumni Magazine
published a piece of mine counting the benefits I
saw in a liberal arts education. I enumerated some
of the fields in which I found the broad-based
general education I got at W&L to have been an
asset, even a necessity. Since September, I have
been in a new situation that has proved to be the
clearest example of the importance of that
background.

I have been hired as a part-time teacher of
English and theatre at Columbia High School in
Maplewood, N.J. I am a beneficiary of the state’s
three-year-old Alternate Route Program by which
non-certified people with strong backgrounds in
their fields are hired to teach beside educational-
ly trained teachers.

The theatre class I teach clearly draws on my
professional experience and training, but the
English class requires me to reach back into the
general education I got at W&L nearly 20 years
ago. I started my ninth-graders off with Inherit
the Wind, the dramatization of the 1925 Tennessee
trial in which high school science teacher John
Scopes was tried for reading Darwin in violation
of the state law. Over the weeks we worked on the
play, I covered not only Darwin and evolution,
the Biblical story of creation, and the history of
the actual trial, but the U.S. Supreme Court, our
legal system, several Constitutional provisions,
newspaper reporting, basic biology, and a hand-
ful of other minor topics that cropped up now and

then.
Since we also spoke about other writings from
time to time, questions and discussions occasional-

40 W&L

ly ranged far beyond these topics, too. I have
found myself remembering things I haven’t
thought about since college, and even since high
school. Never before have I been so conscious of
what I know and don’t know. I thank heaven every
day for my liberal arts education.

Obviously, I never anticipated ending up in
front of a high school English class, so I couldn’t
have prepared for this situation. The lesson, I
think, is that the kind of education W&L provides
is preparation for even some totally unlooked-for
circumstances 20 years down the road. Now that’s
value for money!

RICHARD E. KRAMER, 69

New York City

(In addition to his teaching responsibilities, Mr.

Kramer is editor of the American Directors In-

stitute’s quarterly newsletter, Directors Notes, and

will co-edit the institute’s 1988 publication, The

Book: An American Directors
Sourcebook. —Eds.)

EDITOR:

In looking through the September/October
issue of the Alumni Magazine this morning over
coffee, I discovered a factual error which I wish
to correct.

The article on the refurbishment of the Alum-
ni House describes its former occupant, Dr. Fitz-
gerald Flournoy, as having been a professor of
chemistry. In fact, Dr. Flournoy (‘‘Fitz,’’ as he
was irreverently known to students) was a pro-
fessor of English. I can understand the confusion,
as Dr. Flournoy passed away over 20 years ago
and his Falstaffian character is lamentably atypical
of this serious age in which we live.

In appearance and demeanor, Dr. Flournoy
was, indeed, a figure out of Shakespeare
(‘‘Shakes’’ to his students in that course). He held
forth in a second story classroom in Payne Hall,
reading aloud, in a booming voice, his favorite

passages from the bard, and guffawing when he
reached a particularly humorous episode (which
must have provided an amazing experience to
someone passing by on the Colonnade). He also
taught a course in Modern Drama which, in my
experience, arrived at Ibsen and inexplicably stayed
there, in strange contrast to the professor’s ir-
repressible nature.

Fitz’s classes were marked by irreverence. It
was common for students to bring newspapers and
magazines to class and catch up on the news when
our leader landed on subjects considered
uninteresting. One day, early in a class, my
neighbor (Roger Paine, ’64) commented that he
had forgotten something and walked out, not to
return. Things were like that.

Fitz, or his mother, rented rooms to students’
dates on dance weekends. I don’t recall ever hav-
ing met her, but she was renowned for her poor
driving; she is reputed to have driven into the ticket
booth of one of the local theatres. The professor
himself was wont to arrive home to discover an
apple or orange (acquired he knew not where) in
his pocket. Around Christmas, he often disap-
peared for extended periods of time.

The 1964 Calyx was dedicated to Dr. Flour-
noy; the reader should consult Dr. Coulling’s fine
memorial for a better understanding of the man.
Suffice it to say that Dr. Flournoy’s humane
qualities are still in short supply in the world. I
think I’ll read some Shakespeare over Christmas.

WoopDarD D. OPENO, ’65

_ Somersworth, N.H.

(Mr. Openo was not the only reader to point out

our error. We appreciate all those who did and,

needless to say, apologize for having made
it.—Eds.)

Address correspondence to: And Furthermore,
Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

= 7 == £

= ——

| ae c

 

 

 

 

R By one

4

May 5, 6, 7
Academic and Law Classes
1938 1943 1948 1953 1958
1963 1968 1973 1978 1983

 

 

 

Spring Sports LACROSSE
Schedules Mar8 Randolph-Macon Home

Mar. 12 Ohio Wesleyan Home
Mar. 16 Lynchburg Away
Mar. 19 Gettysburg Home
Mar. 26 Bowdoin Home
Mar. 30 Middlebury Home
Apr. 16 Hampden-Sydney Home
Apr. 19 Roanoke Away
Apr. 23 Washington Home
Apr. 27 Franklin & Marshall Away
Apr. 30 VMI Home
May 7 Hobart Away*

*Germantown Academy, Ft. Washington, Pa.

MEN’S TENNIS

 

Feb. 26 Penn State Home
Feb. 27 William and Mary Away
Mar. 1 James Madison Home
Mar. 8 Radford Home
Mar. 10 Slippery Rock Home
Mar. 11 Bloomsburg Home
Mar. 17 Millersville Home
Mar. 19 Virginia Tech Home
Mar. 20 Davidson Away
Mar. 21 Lynchburg Home
Mar. 22 UNC-Greensboro Home
Mar. 26 Swarthmore Away
Mar. 27 Washington Away
Mar. 29 VMI Home
Apr. 11 Stetson Away
Apr. 12 Central Florida Away
Apr. 13 Rollins Away
Apr. 14 Flagler Away
Apr. 15 North Florida Away
Apr. 20 Averett Home
Apr. 22-23 ODAC Tournament Home
Apr. 25 Virginia Away
Apr. 30 Emory Away
May 7 Hampton Home
May 16-22 NCAA Division III Home
a WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 11-12 James Madison Invitational Away
Mar. 16 ODAC Round Robin Away Mar. 15 Lynchburg Home
Mar. 22 ODAC Round Robin Home Mar. 18 Longwood Home
Mar. 24 Longwood, Radford Home Mar. 21 Wellesley Home
Mar. 28 Ferrum Invitational Away Mar. 22 Bridgewater Away
Mar. 29 Shenandoah Home Mar. 23 Roanoke Home
Apr. 12 ODAC Round Robin Away Mar. 25 Randolph-Macon Woman’s Away
Apr. 15-16 Georgetown Invitational Away Mar. 28 Sweet Briar Home
Apr. 19 ODAC Round Robin Away Mar. 29 Virginia Commonwealth Home
Apr. 25-26 ODAC Championships Away Mar. 30 Mary Baldwin Home
Apr. 11 Centre Away
Apr. 14 Armstrong Away
BASEBALL Apr. 17 Emory & Henry Away
Mar. 11 West Virginia Tech Home Apr. 18 Hollins Away
Mar. 12 West Virginia Tech (2) Home Apr. 20 Randolph-Macon (Ashland) Home
Mar. 15 Bridgewater Away Apr. 22-23 ODAC Tournament Away
Mar. 17 Eastern Mennonite Home
Mar. 19 Randolph-Macon (2) Home TRACK AND FIELD
Mar. 21 Maryville Home
Mar. 22 Hampden-Sydney Home Mar. 12 Davidson Away
Mar. 24 Lynchburg Home Mar. 18 Bridgewater, Roanoke,
Mar. 26 Emory & Henry (2) Home Eastern Mennonite Home
Mar. 30 Bridgewater Home Mar. 22 Newport News Apprentice,
Apr. 10 Mary Washington Away Eastern Mennonite Home
Apr. 12 Lynchburg Away Mar. 25-26 Battlefield Relays Away
Apr. 14 Shenandoah Home Apr. 9 State Meet Away
Apr. 19 Hampden-Sydney Away Apr. 16 Catholic Invitational Away
Apr. 20 Eastern Mennonite Away Apr. 23 ODAC Championships Home
Apr. 27 ODAC Tournament TBA Apr. 30 James Madison Invitational Away

Apr. 30 ODAC Finals TBA May 7 UVa Invitational Away

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

We can be ¢he best
if you’ll do your best

 

Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage
PAID
Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

oO ‘

Make your gift to the Annual Fund

today

 

ANNUAL | FUND

WASHINGTONaANDLEE
UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

ates

el.

