The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

Fall 1988

   
  
 
 

_

Ni

i ake

ye remerenee,
ae |

 

here e

 
  
 

 

 

  

: |
Pa mee -
FE
™ Fi es
& P ;
3 be - i zg, eg
ba] ~ 4 re P
4 Fra r. * Pw ~ mS
4 a
ae 7 ee S ce ~
a - co - ad nd » nd ie - ¢ .
‘ > a toe se ‘ aad “
r ~ -~ aed ’ J ; »
Y ™ < + >
aoa a ne

     

    

 
    

 

       

    

 

 

         

. et oe
» cS
‘er a
a ’
a a
$+ 2
ie 4 “ G
a a me ‘ "
% . s + Pd
Prkeg a } a ,* ;
m . i a - eo eS ae . ‘ a a
4 ° A vt i - ; 2
aie ey r
, = F s cs
od 7 % ete ~ ;
ein . 7 bes
' é ert : Mere i nA
4 4 f of ‘ , tL .
“ a i ‘ ? ; .
%- 4 5 “ , . , - Bek ae Ba
eo , : A i ao i , , re f
" 4 ed 4 7 E
ad .
ods, , -
poh 3 a = ‘ <> ee 8
. A
, . , § red r j i y -
. ’ ’ y oe id * - a were
. r oe rr é ma
oa. . , Y gl.
’ be a r
Pa a F 4
iad , ry - j
f -" fs tous
ed f Pa) J ey A. Pa - a - fe
Beas r 77 i P p
Pred tts . nN
i iren! cs e Pe a
4 >, a » ; PA
,€ 4 eat
y
Ps , Fs ; P ra a
i , 3
; f a .
F ae ,
sy - ,
P i sd - F
, f-°* , re)
" d .
; bp ,
; “ rs
iced 5
. 6 :
F : i - -
. i és
r A Pe
/ Fa
‘ > ’ '
* " "a a "
. he : ;
rr Leen
é y ;
‘ .
F
4 } , 2
, “re ad
J ig : Be -
y . .
at i
is AY oN a ad
f a2 is re
. re a 4 mo =
j A ,
J ‘ . 4
,

Arch
37%.755

\WJ SVT7aqlu

VV. 6%
NO 4+

In a formidable volume that spent weeks on the New
York Times best-seller list last year, Allan Bloom decried
what he termed ‘‘the closing of the American mind.’’ Ever
since the book first appeared, Bloom’s conclusions have
been widely praised and widely criticized.

In this issue of the Alumni Magazine, four members of
the Washington and Lee faculty continue the debate. Their
opinions differ. But the very fact that they can disagree
demonstrates that the W&L mind is not closed at all, but
in fact quite open.

Similar illustrations of ‘‘open’’ and vigorous minds
abound in this particular issue of the magazine. ‘‘How I
Spent My Summer Vacation,”’ for instance, contains pro-
files of four students who had rather unconventional
experiences—and learned some unusual lessons—during the
summer months. John X. Miller, ’77, ’80L, reflects on the

extraordinary days he spent in Seoul, South Korea, cover-

ing the Summer Olympics for USA Today. And Randall
P. Bezanson, the new dean of the law school, explains his
ideas for the future in ‘‘Putting the School of Law on the
Map.’’

A final example of the intellectual vigor and creativity
associated with Washington and Lee is to be found in the
life and work of James Boatwright, who died in September.
During his years as professor of English here, he exerted
a profound influence on colleagues and students alike. And
through his work as editor of Shenandoah, the Universi-
ty’s literary magazine, he was an important figure in the

field of letters, always remaining ‘‘open’’ to new or

unknown writers to whom he provided a forum. He will
be greatly missed.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 63, Number 4, Fall 1988

 

ANNE COUuLLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHaw, Assistant Editor

DENISE KuHN, Designer

CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
Patrick HiInELy, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

W. Dan McGrew, ’52, President
Atlanta, Ga.

Joun D. KuiNEpinsT, ’71, ’78L, Vice President
San Diego, Calif.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR Jr., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.
C. HowarD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.
~ Joun A. COCKLEREECE Jr., ’76, ’79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.
JaMEs J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.
G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Staunton, Va.
CLay T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.
RoBeErRT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas
JamMEs A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.
EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., 61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio
Tuomas P. O’BrRIEN Jr., 58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio
J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
Baltimore, Md.
EUGENE C. PERRY Jr., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.
JoHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.
CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.
WILLIAM E. SMITH JrR., 763
Birmingham, Ala.
WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.
RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in September, December, March, and June
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450.
All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at
Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1988 Washington and Lee University

 

On the Inside

 

How I Spent My Summer Vacation

 

Putting the Law School on the Map

 

11

Reflections on Seoul

 

16

Allan Bloom and the W&L Mind

 

21

The Fall Gazette

 

37

The Generals’ Report

 

40

Class Notes

 

49

In Memoriam

 

52

And Furthermore

 

56

New in the W&L Bookstore

 

Front and back cover photos by W. Patrick Hinely, °73.

How I Spent

Summer Vacation

 

2 W&L

 

by Anne Coulling

It is the traditional topic for that first freshman
composition: ‘‘How I Spent My Summer Vacation.”’
How many English professors through the years have
read about jaunts to the beach or to the Grand Can-
yon; hot muggy days spent instructing youngsters in
the basics of canoeing or hiking at summer camp; or
the valuable lessons that can be learned from deliver-
ing pizzas or flipping hamburgers.

If Washington and Lee teachers had made that
assignment this fall, however, they might have been
surprised by the resulting essays. For W&L students,
the summer was characterized by diversity. Certainly
many did what college students are supposed to do
on vacation—they went home, found jobs at
minimum wage, saved a little money, and enjoyed
themselves. Others were a little more adventurous.
They traveled to all corners of the globe. They work-
ed in unusual occupations and met extraordinary peo-
ple. They rubbed elbows with the very poor and with
the very rich. And they learned some valuable lessons
that broadened their W&L education.

We decided to talk with some of these students
whose vacation plans were a little out of the or-
dinary. What follows are four perspectives on a sum-
mer that these students will never forget.

Jenny Bray, ’89
Houston, Texas

 

Jenny Bray wanted to spend her summer
practicing her Spanish. What she didn’t ful-
ly bargain on, however, was that she would
also have to kill scorpions, change diapers,
toilet-train 8-year-olds, treat pneumonia, dry
tears, wash clothes, and cure lice.

Jenny was a volunteer at an orphanage
in Guatemala. She had sole care of 22
children ranging in age from 10 months to
14 years. The eldest was a prostitute and a
drug addict; the youngest had pneumonia;
all had lice and worms. There was no run-
ning water, and electricity was available on-
ly during daytime hours. The children’s
playground was a trash dump.

As soon as she arrived in early June, Jen-
ny went right to work to try to improve the
children’s lives. She got the older ones into
schools, took them for vaccinations and den-
tal work at free clinics in the capital city,
bought them pencils and notebooks, and
treated them to occasional gifts of fresh fruit
to supplement their diet of beans and tor-
tillas. Her days lasted from 5 a.m. to mid-
night, and her few hours of sleep were often
interrupted by the children’s nightmares.

**Some of them had been sexually abus-
ed,’’ she explains. ‘‘One was the son of a
prostitute; others were the children of drug

 

 

A.

addicts and alcoholics. They were forever
having nightmares, so I was always up at
night checking on them.’’

Caring for so many vigorous children—
made all the more energetic by large quan-
tities of strong Latin American coffee—was
trying at the very least. At one point Jenny’s
patience was stretched to the limit, when one
of the 4-year-olds obstinately refused to
become potty-trained.

‘*I grabbed him by the shoulders and
said, ‘Why do you do this? Why won’t you
tell me when you need to go to the
bathroom?’ He said, ‘Because when I told
my mother, it meant she had to take me out-
side, and she would beat me.’ I felt so horri-
ble, and I had to remember every time I
would get mad because they wouldn’t do
something they were supposed to, it wasn’t
because they were bad. It was because they
didn’t know any better. No one had ever
stopped to teach them.’’

Before leaving for Guatemala last June,
Jenny did plenty of homework. She follow-
ed Guatemalan events in the newspaper,
spoke with a W&L professor who has spent
time in the country, and took a course on
Guatemala’s history. But nothing quite
prepared her for certain realities.

‘*T expected it to be poor, but I hadn’t
been thinking in terms of dirt floors,’’ she
says. ‘‘I hadn’t expected to see canals in the
streets that were nothing but raw sewage.

*

 

“They love their children very much, but
I didn’t meet a poor woman who was mar-
ried, and every poor woman I met had
children. The mothers would work, and the
children would play in the streets. Whenever
I left the padre’s house I saw a baby crawl-
ing in the street. I never saw it with an older
brother or sister; it was just crawling by
itself. I guess the mother thought it would
be there when she got home.”’

There were other forms of culture shock,
as well. Jenny wasn’t accustomed to attract-
ing a crowd simply because she had fair skin,
blond hair, and blue eyes. She was startled
to see police carrying machine guns, and
although she never witnessed a violent inci-
dent she did see a dead man lying in the street
once. She learned to check her bed for bugs
and worms, and one night a rat fell on top
of her from the ceiling rafters above and she
beat it to death with her flashlight.

Still, she says, ‘‘even though there was
a lot of stuff we didn’t have—we didn’t have
food, we didn’t have a clean place to sleep,
we didn’t have showers—none of that stuff
fazed me the way I thought it would. And
that’s part of the reason I went there—I
thought I needed to learn to appreciate what
I have. The thing that bothered me most was
I didn’t have anyone to talk to.’’

When Jenny arrived at the orphanage in
early June, she was one of 13 volunteers.
When she left about two months later, there

W&L 3

 

were two. The rest had left because of con-
flicts with the director. There were times,
too, when Jenny wondered if she would
make it through the summer.

‘*But I didn’t really have much time to
think about my situation. The responsibili-
ty was so great, and the needs of the kids
were so constant, that I didn’t have much
time to myself, and very rarely did I sit down
and think. Sure, there were nights when I
would cry myself to sleep. But the kids were
so incredible that I knew where I needed to
be was there with them.”’

Despite the hardships, Jenny was still
glad she had the experience. ‘‘It was a neat
summer,”’ she says. ‘‘I learned a lot about
myself, and the biggest lesson was that of all
the things I didn’t have, what I needed most
was the human contact. In college it’s easy
to be materialistic, and it’s nice to have the
reaffirmation that that isn’t what’s most im-
portant to me.”’

What was important to Jenny was the
children in her care, and leaving them prov-
ed to be much more difficult than she had
imagined. ‘‘I thought by the end that I’d just
be ready to get out. But it was so hard to
leave those kids, because I knew what I’d be
leaving them in. In two months they had
started to call me ‘Mom.’ ”’

Back in Lexington, Jenny’s life has settl-
ed back down to normal. But she can’t help
wondering about the children she left behind
in Guatemala. ‘‘The 14-year-old was pros-
tituting to support her drug habit when we
got to her. They told us she needed about
six months to dry out. I wonder if she isn’t
back in the streets again.

‘*As for the others, I think I made a dif-
ference in their lives. I think some of the
things I taught them they’ll remember.
Maybe when they grow up—assuming they
get that far—they will remember.”’

4 W&L

 

 

Willard Dumas, ’91
New Orleans, La.

 

It was all there—the balloons, the
placards, the buttons and signs, the firebrand
speakers (and less-than-attentive audiences),
the platforms and politicking and patriotism,
and a sizeable dose of good old-fashioned
hoopla.

It had all the trappings of a Washington
and Lee mock political convention. Except
that the crowd was a little larger, the decora-
tions were a little more expensive—and this
time the stakes were real.

Still, Willard Dumas found the 1988
Republican National Convention to be
remarkably similar to its W&L forerunner.
**In some ways it was very like the Mock
Convention,’’ he recalls. ‘‘There was
definitely a lot of pomp and circumstance.
I think W&L does an excellent job of
simulating the convention.”’

Just as they had sat in Warner Center just
a few months before, so did Willard and
several of his W&L friends witness the en-
tire real-life political spectacle in New
Orleans. This convention gave Willard par-
ticular pride, however, for it happened in his
hometown.

Throughout the summer he had watch-
ed the city spruce up in preparation for the
big event. Every morning as he drove to his
summer job downtown, he saw the crews of
construction workers and_ landscapers,
painters and planners as they got ready. ‘‘It
was. pretty exciting. Democrats,
Republicans—everyone was very interested
in making this the best possible convention.
We wanted to make sure the business of

Willard Dumas (left) and a friend with former
U.S. Sen. John Tower at the convention.

nominating the Republican candidate for
president went well from our point of view.”’

Willard and his friends had originally
planned to spend much of the convention do-
ing volunteer tasks, such as painting signs
and placards. But they also found time to at-
tend youth rallies, listen to such speakers as
former Secretary of Education William Ben-
nett and former U.S. Sen. Barry Goldwater,
and meet celebrities like Charlton Heston,
Helen Hayes, and Roger Staubach. At one
point they were even able to sit in the Bush
family’s box, and Willard found himself next
to Prescott Bush, the vice president’s
brother.

For Willard, though, the highlight of the
entire convention was meeting still another
public figure—civil rights activist Coretta
Scott King. He admits that since one famous
civil rights worker had been a candidate for
the other party’s nomination, King was
perhaps the last person he might have ex-
pected to run into at the Republican
Convention.

‘**But when I spoke with her, she said she
was there because she was encouraging all
Americans—not just black Americans, but
all Americans—to participate in both
political parties,’’ he explains. ‘‘She felt that
the problems of a lot of Americans could
also be answered through the Republican
Party. She said too that she was not back-
ing either political party and was going to re-
main neutral.”’

During the summer one political observer
after another spoke about issues of race in
this campaign, comparing the number of
black Democratic delegates to the number of

 

Republican ones. Indeed, one syndicated col-
umnist wrote a satirical fable about the sud-
den fame of the sole black participant in the
Republican convention. For Willard,
however, the question of race was never
much of an issue.

‘*T think the Republican Party has many
avenues for all Americans, and some of these
are being opened up now,”’” he says. ‘“There
are a number of prominent black
Republicans right now. I’d say it’s just taken
a little while. Twenty years ago I’d be sur-
prised if you would have seen more than 200
black faces in the Democratic Party.

‘*T admit that the Republican Party pro-
bably does have an image problem with black
Americans, but they have to work on their
marketing. Still, I felt comfortable at the
convention. I met a lot of delegates from
around the country who were very nice, and
we discussed a lot of current political issues.”’

Willard may have felt like a member of
a minority in one sense. Yet in another, he
had plenty of company. Everywhere he look-
ed he saw familiar faces from Washington
and Lee. He estimates that at least 25 fellow
students were there and an unknown number
of alumni—including television newsman
Roger Mudd, ’50, and one of the presiden-
tial candidates, Marion G. (Pat) Robertson,
50.

‘*There was a real W&L presence at the
convention,’’ Willard says. ‘‘We all heard
Mr. Robertson speak, and we all paid atten-
tion. We were eager to hear what he had to
say, and like another minister who was a can-
didate for the other party, Mr. Robertson
also has a following. It may be small, but
you have to give both individuals credit:
They have a message, and people are will-
ing to listen.’’

Listening to those messages and par-
ticipating in the political process proved to
be a valuable experience, Willard believes.
‘*Seeing the candidates—the Bushes and the
Quayles—and being able to be close to them
and to the people around them, you get a
personal feeling for them. For at least four
or five days you shared most of their hopes
and ambitions, and I think regardless of
which political party you support you get a
little more interested in seeing this whole
thing through.

‘‘After participating in the Mock Con-
vention, I knew that I wanted to go to the
convention in New Orleans. That’s
something that’s going to stay with you all
your life. There may not be one speech that
you’ll remember or anything in particular
about the convention, but you will remember
that you have been to a national convention
and have participated in some way in the
American political process other than just
voting.”’

 

Moose Herring, ’89
Boone, N.C.

 

The ailments were not quite what you
would see in a typical American hospital:
deformities caused by polio; severe burns
from cooking with open fires; malnutrition;
AIDS. It was a startling introduction to
health care for a young premedical student
from Washington and Lee. Yet, Moose Her-
ring says, he wouldn’t trade his month as a
medical missionary in Kananga, Zaire, for
anything.

Moose and his father, Dr. William A.
Herring, traveled to Zaire last summer under
the auspices of World Medical Missions, a
program based in Boone and run by Franklin
Graham, Billy Graham’s son. It was the
fourth such journey for the elder Herring,
an orthopedic surgeon, who takes a month
out of his medical practice each year to work
in such far-flung places as Nepal and Peru.
This time, Moose decided to tag along and

 

 

act as his dad’s assistant and scrub nurse.

In a month’s time, the Herrings saw ap-
proximately 55 cases, ranging from broken
arms and legs to polio-related problems. The
caseload was heavy, since no orthopedist had
been in the area for about six months. ‘‘We
did sometimes five or six cases a day,’’ says
Moose. ‘‘They would wheel them out and
wheel them in.”’

The hospital itself was designed for 140
patients but actually held 170. All of the
physicians were overworked, Moose thinks,
and conditions were primitive at best. The
threat of infection from AIDS was constant,
and special wraparound glasses and rubber
gloves were the norm in the operating room.
While Moose was there, two children in the
hospital died from AIDS-related causes.

In addition to his duties in orthopedics,
Moose also had the opportunity to work in
a nutrition center, which served a 300-mile
radius. The center had a dual function: It
provided food for the hungry, and it also at-
tempted to educate parents about proper

Moose Herring assists his father in orthopedic
surgery (above). During his time in Zaire,
Moose photographed many such sights as: these

(left).

W&L 5

 

nutrition.

‘‘It was a really great program,’’ Moose
explains. ‘“The public health team would go
out in the villages and bring back children
who were the most malnourished. But they
also brought back one parent, so they could
’ show him or her exactly what the kid need-
ed to be fed. The idea is to send that parent
back to the village to teach other parents, so
you’re really teaching nutrition all over that
village.

‘*By doing that, you give these kids a sec-
ond chance at life, and you are educating
people at the same time.’’

It wasn’t always easy for the needy to
reach the center, however. One young girl
walked 150 miles to get there. Once they ar-
rived, the language barrier posed some pro-
blems, since patients might speak French,
English, Swahili, or other African dialects.

Language was just one of the obstacles
the two Herrings faced in adjusting to life
in Zaire. Moose himself spoke ‘‘enough
French to get by,”’ although he confesses that
‘‘most of the people we were communicating
with were out cold on the operating table.”’
An even stranger sensation was, for the first
time in his life, feeling like part of a minority.

‘“When we went to church, we were just
about the only white people there,’’ he
remembers. ‘‘But we felt very well accepted,
because everyone knew we worked at the
hospital and were there to help them.”’

The biggest single culture shock, though,
was the poverty of Zaire’s people. ‘‘When
we got off the airplane we walked through
a parking lot, and there were about 150 old
people with their hands out, looking for
anything,’’ he recalls. ‘‘You go through
customs and people have their hands out.
Then you go into a village and all the kids
have their hands out. Everybody wants a
gift.

‘“You see on TV that that kind of pover-
ty exists, but it doesn’t hit home until you
walk through the villages and see the one-
room mud huts and the old people with flies
on them and the deformed kids.’’

The sight of so much hardship and
deprivation was discouraging, and at times
Moose wondered if he was doing any good
at all. ‘“There’s so much to be done that you
wonder, What can I do? But my father told
me, ‘You have to look at it this way: Dur-
ing the month you were there you helped
those people out, and that’s something.’ But
it is depressing, because there’s so much need
you feel as though you don’t even make a
dent in it.”’

Zaire’s health-care problems are enor-
mous, and there are few solutions in sight.
‘*AIDS is going to sweep through that coun-
try and kill lots of people,’’ Moose says.
‘‘There are also diseases like polio and

6 W&L

' measles—diseases that we’ve eliminated in

this country—that are hard to combat
because you can’t get to everybody. The
outlook is very dim, but at least I worked
in orthopedics, where you had problems that
weren’t life-threatening. I think I would have
had a serious problem dealing with kids who
were dying every day. They have AIDS at
birth, and then poverty and disease take
away any chance they have of life.’’

Despite the disheartening aspects of his
work, Moose is nonetheless grateful for the
experience in Zaire. ‘‘I decided to go over
there mostly out of respect for my father and
from seeing the satisfaction he has had in go-
ing and serving. My love and respect for him
grew tremendously from seeing how he uses
his trade to help people who have a serious
need.”’

As valuable as the experience was, Moose
wouldn’t recommend it for just anybody: on-
ly for those who are ready to have their
‘‘ideas and perspectives changed a little bit.
You learn not to take things for granted, like
a dry place to sleep or having something to
eat. When you see kids who live like that it
brings things like cars and money and social
life back into perspective. Kids over here
complain if they don’t have the best toys on
the market, if they don’t have money, if they
don’t have nice clothes or an alligator on
their shirt. But kids over there live with
poverty, disease, and death every day. It
makes you realize what’s important, and
what’s not.’’

 

Elizabeth Murtagh, ’89L

 

It certainly wasn’t LA Law. Nor was it
Perry Mason, Matlock, or even People’s
Court. No, if Liz Murtagh had to make a
comparison, she would probably say it was
most like Night Court.

It was a real-life criminal court in
Jacksonville, Fla., and it was where Liz spent
the majority of her days last summer. She
was employed by the Jacksonville Office of
the Public Defender, and her clients were ac-
cused of crimes ranging from drug traffick-
ing to murder.

A former social worker with a
background in court counseling, Liz was
already accustomed to the court environ-
ment. She was used to the criminal records,
the hustle and bustle of overloaded court
schedules, and the dreary atmosphere inside
city jails. Still, she says, ‘‘it’s kind of an odd
experience to go in the back of the court to
what they call the ‘chute,’ which is where
they bring people over from the jail. It’s real-
ly dark, and there are no windows, no air,
no ventilation. The men are there sometimes
five or six hours at a time, and although they
get lunch served to them they don’t really
have any water available to them except from
a sink.

‘*It was disturbing to see people treated
that way, although it was perfectly legal. You
have to sign in and get a pass and I had an
identification card, but you know that you
are there and you’re not going to get out
unless someone lets you out. You really
realize what your freedom is.”’

While most of her law school classmates
were spending the summer as research
associates at law firms, Liz was taking
depositions, talking to clients, or consulting
with witnesses or investigators. She was a cer-
tified legal intern, which meant that she
could go into court with a supervising at-
torney and sign any documents authorized
by her clients.

‘*My clients had to know that I was a stu-
dent, I wasn’t a real lawyer,’’ she explains.
‘“‘Of course, they didn’t think public
defenders were real lawyers, and I wasn’t
even a real public defender. But it gave me
experience in negotiating with the state for
plea bargains and just really learning how a
criminal system worked.’’

Although she discovered that some of her
law school classes—such as those dealing
with criminal law, ethics, and professional
responsibility—had prepared her well for the
summer, Liz also realized that she was not
dealing with textbook cases. Nor were her
clients characters on a television cops-and-
robbers show. ‘‘Each person that I worked
with was an individual, a human being who

was entitled to a certain amount of dignity,”’
she says. ‘‘To earn respect from them I need-
ed to treat them respectfully and to be a good
listener and to be able to hear not just what
they’re saying but beyond what they’re say-
ing about their case. If I’m talking to a guy
who just turned 18, I want to know where
his parents are. Who is he living with? What
happened with his life that he ended up here?
Even though I’m not going to be able to ad-
dress all those issues, it helps me to present
his case, particularly for a bond reduction.

‘*You need to realize that people are peo-
ple. Some of them are in the jail and some
of them are outside the jail, but they’re all
entitled to the same amount of respect. I
found it disturbing that the caseload is so
high that sometimes some of the court per-
sonnel forget to deal with people on a human

 

level. It’s not just ‘I’ve got a caseload of 150
clients and I’ve got to get them in and out
quickly.’ I had the luxury of a small caseload
so I could get to know my clients better and
meet their families and other people who
knew them.”’

As she became better acquainted with her
clients, Liz learned about the circumstances
of their lives. For one thing, she encountered
the poverty in which most of them lived.
‘Someone who goes to law school usually
has money and is not used to seeing people
who are really poor. But a lot of the clients
are indigent or they wouldn’t get the public
defender. They don’t have any money and
have never had any money and have been
stealing and doing things like that for a long
time.

‘‘Sometimes I would tell them what the

state’s plea offer was and I would say, ‘I
think that’s kind of high.’ And they would
say, ‘No, that’ll do fine, you did the best you
could,’ sort of trying to reassure me. But
they’ve been through it so many times that
60 days in jail is no big deal to them.”’

In meeting with her clients, Liz also learn-
ed that the police are not necessarily the
heroes of the criminal justice system. ‘‘A lot
of police brutality goes on,’’ she believes.
‘The police do have a very dangerous job—
crack cocaine is a horrible problem down
there, and a lot of my clients were cocaine
dealers. But most of them had gotten beaten
up by a police officer or brutalized during
an arrest, probably more than was necessary.
I’ve been taught as a law-abiding citizen that
it’s supposed to be done one way, and I saw
that there’s another way that sometimes gets
done too.”’

Yet, in spite of the court overloads, the
sometimes indifferent attitudes of pros-
ecutors and defense attorneys alike, and the
less-than-honorable actions of the police
department, Liz’s faith in the criminal justice
system was never shaken. ‘‘I do think there
is justice out there,’’ she says. ‘‘I don’t think
I’m as naive as I was 10 years ago when I
started out in this work, but I hope I’m not
too callous, either. I still think I have a sen-
sitivity to be able to feel what people need
and what’s in their best interest. But I believe
very strongly in self-determination, in in-
dividuals having the right to make their own
decisions.

**People have got to be responsible for
their own behavior,’’ she adds. ‘‘No matter
how horrible a life they’ve had, if they do
something wrong they still need to be held
accountable for it. But there are ways in the
system for us to make sure that people’s
rights are protected and that it’s all done cor-
rectly, and that’s why I like the public
defender’s office. It really is a voice for the
people who typically don’t have a voice and
can be a way to have their side heard.”’

W&L 7

Putting

the School of Law
on the Map

by Brian D. Shaw

 

hen Randall P. Bezanson was
first contacted about the dean-
ship of the Washington and Lee

School of Law, he wasn’t sure quite where
Lexington, Va., was located. Even though
he had spent two years as a law clerk in
Washington, D.C., he had to admit his
Virginia geography had become a little rus-
ty. So he asked W&L President John D.
Wilson to send him a map of the Old
Dominion.

In due course Bezanson received the map,
spread it out, and found a dot labeled ‘‘Lex-
ington’’ nestled in the valley on the western
part of the state between Roanoke and
Staunton. Last July that unknown spot on
the map became home to Bezanson and his
family, when he became dean of Washington
and Lee’s law school.

Today, after nearly six months in his new
position, Randy Bezanson’s goal is to put the
Washington and Lee School of Law on the
map as one of the best law schools in the
United States. It is an ambitious aim, Bezan-
son admits, but one that he thinks
Washington and Lee is able to achieve.

‘Tl was attracted to Washington and Lee
because of the opportunity to be part of a
law school that has the realistic potential to
influence the development of legal educa-
tion,’’ he explains. ‘‘This law school—
because of its size and because of the con-
nections between the law school and the
undergraduate divisions—is uniquely
situated to do that.’’

In his short time as dean, Bezanson has
already proposed a number of programs and
innovations to enhance the law school’s
status and improve the quality of education
the school offers. Those include reducing the
student-faculty ratio, bolstering the school’s
computer facilities, taking steps to bring the
law school and the undergraduate divisions
closer together, and broadening the cur-
riculum for the second- and third-year
classes. These objectives will not be ac-
complished overnight, Bezanson concedes.
But he is a man with a vision for the
Washington and Lee School of Law, and the
energy and determination to see that vision
fulfilled.

‘*This law school is already very good,”’

 

Bezanson speaks to students about libel law. He and Professor Brian Murchison taught a seminar

on the topic this semester.

8 W&L

he believes. ‘‘But we could be among the best
in the country.’’

ezanson’s goals for the law school
B and his perception of its poten-

tial find their roots in personal ex-
perience. He grew up in Iowa and earned a
degree in business administration from
Northwestern University. From the begin-
ning of his college years he knew that he
wanted to study law, but he thought that he
might also consolidate his interests in
business, accounting, and finance to become
a merger lawyer.

When he enrolled at the University of
Iowa’s law school, however, his thinking
began to alter. Through exposure to different
courses and serving as editor-in-chief of the
Iowa Law Review, he began to ‘‘metamor-
phose.’’ The transformation continued dur-
ing his clerkship to Judge Roger Robb of the
United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia circuit. The following
year he clerked for Justice Harry A.
Blackmun of the U.S. Supreme Court, and
the change was complete.

‘“By the time I finished my clerkships my
interests had changed significantly,’’ Bezan-
son recalls. ‘‘I wanted to be an academic, but
I also wanted to continue to be involved from
time to time in business and in ‘lawyer’s
lawyering,’ working on cases with law
firms.”’

He was able to combine those interests
when he returned to the University of Iowa
School of Law in 1973 as an assistant pro-
fessor. Two years later he began to move into
the area of academic administration when he
was named assistant to the president. He
continued to teach in the law school, but it
soon became apparent that administrative
duties were consuming the majority of his
time.

Before long the president asked him to
serve for one year as vice president for
finance and university services. The one year
quickly grew into five, in which Bezanson
oversaw a wide spectrum of university ac-
tivities, including athletics and fund raising.

Despite his busy schedule, Bezanson
managed to find time to write. He has writ-
ten extensively in the areas of constitutional

law, mass communication law, and ad-
ministrative law. He also helped found the
Iowa Libel Research Project, sponsored by
the John and Mary R. Markle Foundation
of New York. With grant support now total-
ing more than $250,000 from the Markle
Foundation, the Prudential Foundation, and
others, Bezanson has conducted broad
research on a nationwide basis into libel
litigation involving the press. The project has
received a great deal of national attention,
and findings from the first phase of research
were published last year in a book titled Libel
Law and the Press: Myth and Reality.
(Bezanson brought the libel project with
him to Washington and Lee and induced
Professor Brian Murchison to become in-
volved with it as well. It will now be known
as the ‘‘Libel Dispute Resolution Project.’’)

hroughout his career, Bezanson has

achieved the balance among

academics, business, and ‘‘lawyer’s
lawyering’’ that he sought to pursue as a
young attorney. He has served on the boards
of directors of many banks and companies;
he has also garnered several awards and
prizes, including the 1987 Northern Award
for Outstanding Teaching at the University
of Iowa and the National Research Award
from the Society of Professional Journalists,
Sigma Delta Chi.

Bezanson sees his involvement with the
professional business world and his role as
an academic as being supportive and nurtur-
ing of each other. ‘‘I have tried,’’ he says,
‘to find ways to apply the research in
academia to practical applications in
business.’’ For example, he was extensively
involved in the creation and operation of two
companies that emanated from the Univer-
sity of lowa—a small medical technology
firm and a larger computer technology
company.

That wedding of academics and prac-
ticality is the genesis of Bezanson’s vision for
the future of Washington and Lee’s law
school. As he sees it, W&L is the perfect ins-
titution for combining academic research and
practical applications because of its small size
and the growing cooperation between the

 

W&L

10

W&L

 

undergraduate divisions and the law school.

*‘We are all products of our own ex-
perience,’ he explains. ‘‘My experience has
influenced the way I think about the law
school and what can be done here.’’

He continues, ‘‘The law does not sit in
a vacuum as a social abstraction. It is a
dynamic of the society in which we live. It
builds upon other bodies of knowledge. That
kind of appreciation of the breadth of sus-
tained inquiry into topics is of immense prac-
tical importance to a lawyer and a well-
educated person.

“Clients don’t come to lawyers with
prepackaged legal issues. They come with
problems. It is up to the lawyer to under-

stand the nuances of the problem. That is as

important as understanding the body of law.
In legal education if we can give students the
opportunity to deal in depth with issues, they
will come to appreciate the problems the
clients bring to them. If there is any criticism
of legal education, historically, it is that it
has not devoted enough attention to in-
tegrating.”’

he broad-based approach to legal

education that Bezanson envisions

has several key components. One of
those is a renewed, intense emphasis on stu-
dent writing.

*“When people ask me what changes will
occur at the law school, I name three:
writing, writing, and writing,’’ he says.
‘**There is no better medium than the writ-
ten word. We will attempt to develop an un-
precedented program that integrates writing
into every aspect of the curriculum. Our plan
is to create a legal education that is served
by constant involvement with the written
word in increasingly challenging and profes-
sionally rigorous settings throughout the
three years of law school.”’

Toward that end, Bezanson hopes some-
day to install computers in every student car-
rel in the law library. Washington and Lee
is the only law school in the nation that has
a carrel for every student, he notes, and those
carrels are already wired for computers. The
first step in that technological development
took place in October, when the Board of
Trustees voted to support a project that will
place computers on the desks of all W&L
faculty members, both law and
undergraduate.

While Bezanson is a strong advocate of
the Socratic method of teaching first-year
law students (‘‘it is the best and most
rigorous form of education, especially com-
bined with research and writing’’), his plans
for second- and third-year legal education
represent a significant change from the way
law is now taught at Washington and Lee.

*‘The opportunity exists at Washington
and Lee to continue that very effective form
of education in the first year, to continue it
to some extent in the second and third years
in different kinds of ways, but to build upon
it with a core undertaking of immense prac-
tical importance and rigor, with a great deal
of written work, but which also immerses the
students in an active enterprise with faculty.

“Small groups of students of four to six
to eight, working with one or more faculty
members from law as well as other
disciplines, will have the opportunity to
organize themselves in common enterprises
that deal with social and legal problems that

 

span beyond the law in technical terms and
require that one explore other disciplines,”’
he continues.

‘‘For example, I think there are almost

limitless opportunities at Washington and
Lee for dealing with actual, live, but highly
sophisticated, complex litigation in a very
deep and substantial way over a period of
time, which, by necessity, will require the
students to delve deeply into the issues in-
volved with the litigation as well as the pro-
cedure that the legal process is going to bring
to it. With depth comes breadth, in other
words, rather than with breadth comes
depth.”’

Bezanson envisions these small groups of
students and faculty taking on an active role
in the legal community, working with law
firms on significant cases, conducting
research, or helping to write legislation. In-
deed, Bezanson has already initiated this pro-
cess in a libel law seminar he is teaching this
fall with his colleague Brian Murchison. The
16 students enrolled in the course will
research, shape, and draft a proposed Model
Act on the Communicative Torts—libel, in-
vasion of privacy, and related torts. Public
hearings will be held on the students’
statutory product and the model act will be
published for consideration by state
legislatures.

Examples of similar activity in the law
school abound. For instance, the Alderson
Clinic, which provides legal assistance to in-
mates at the Alderson Federal Penitentiary
for Women in West Virginia, has achieved
a remarkable level of rigor, depth, and at-
tention to social, legal, and ethical issues in-
volved in representation of clients. Next year
Professor Lyman Johnson of the law facul-
ty will work with Professor Larry Lamont
of the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics to develop an intensive, research-
based interdisciplinary seminar on hostile
takeovers.

he strength of the faculty, Bezanson

i believes, will ease the transition to

this new dimension of legal
education.

‘**The faculty here is very good. By infus-
ing emphasis on written work and more such

work in the upper levels, we can improve the
students’ education and at the same time
serve faculty research interests that will in-
ure the national reputation of Washington
and Lee. Students can become actively and
jointly involved in scholarly work with the
faculty or involved in the development of
sophisticated and complex litigation. We will
be able to serve the faculty’s research in-
terests and the students’ academic interests
at the same time.”’

Although the current student-faculty
ratio in the law school is about 17 to one,
that ratio must be reduced to about 10 to
one—the lowest in the nation—to achieve the
level of intense individual contact that Bezan-
son believes will make his programs unique

and successful. He estimates that seven new

faculty members will need to be added in the
next five years. In addition, he has propos-
ed new ‘‘Washington and Lee Professor-
ships,’’ which will bring to campus on a per-
manent or short-term basis the highest quali-
ty teacher/scholars with active interests in
law and other fields such as politics, com-
merce, economics, journalism, and the
sciences. The Washington and Lee Pro-
fessors would teach in both the law and
undergraduate divisions and would involve

 

“With
depth
comes
breadth,
in other
words,
rather
than
with
breadth
comes
depth. ’’

 

 

W&L ii

12

 

W&L

 

‘“Beyond anything else, we
must educate people well so
that they can adjust to

changes in the future... .

33

 

 

students from throughout the university in
their scholarly work.

From his office in Lewis Hall, Bezanson
has a 180-degree view of the undergraduate
campus. He sweeps his arm across the
panorama as he talks about melding W&L’s
undergraduate and law divisions.

**What is unique about Washington and
Lee is that, because the undergraduate col-
lege, where the disciplines of science,
philosophy, journalism, political science, and
all the others exist, is small and of a con-
genial scale, yet of the highest quality, the
opportunity exists to build upon the connec-
tions between law and other disciplines in
ways that can be informal and congenial and
suffer the least degree of impediment,’’ he
says. ‘‘Impediment, bureaucratic and other-
wise, tends to be a function of institutional
size.

“Its size is one of the chief unique
features of the law school, apart from its
strength in its own right, and the strength of
the University in its own right. Its smallness
provides inverse economies of scale when it
comes to rigorous education, intellectually
and professionally, as well as to meaningful
integration of material from other disciplines
into the training of the well-educated
lawyer.”’

The law school has many other strengths
on which Bezanson hopes to build. One of
those is the diversity of the student body.

“We should continue to build upon our
diversity, but it should be a diversity of ex-
cellence,’’ he says. ‘‘Geographic, racial, and
economic diversity within the framework of
a selective, very high-quality law school with
very talented students is essential. Because
our world is diverse, pluralistic and ever-
expanding, our minds have to be ever-
expanding. A lot of learning in law school
takes place outside the classroom. A diverse
student body makes our environment more
meaningful both inside and outside the
classroom.”’

Another important feature of a
Washington and Lee education, Bezanson
believes, is the honor system, which, he says,
“‘is a reflection of the institution’s attitude
toward its students and their education; its
respect for their separate identities and in-

terests; and the responsibility that such
respect carries along with it.

“It places a great deal more responsibility
on students for their own education, and that
I think is positive and makes clear the expec-
tations that go along with education. But the
honor system also is an important symbol—a
particularly appropriate one—in an intellec-
tual and academic institution devoted to
ideas.”’

As Bezanson and the law faculty move
forward with plans to mold the Washington
and Lee School of Law into an educational
institution of distinguished national reputa-
tion, he is firm in his conviction that the
ultimate goal is to produce law students who
are broadly educated and rigorously trained
individuals.

“*Law school is a professional school and
must prepare its graduates for the skills of
the legal profession, recognizing, of course,
that not all graduates will choose to practice
law, or to do so in conventional ways.
Beyond anything else, we must educate peo-
ple well so that they can adjust to changes
in the future, recognizing also that we do not
and cannot know what the future holds. But
the fact of the matter is that an educational
experience that is on a small scale, that is
highly personalized, with great devotion to
depth and breadth of education, a great deal
of rigorous writing, and training in oral and
analytical thinking and preparation, forms
the essentials of a well-trained lawyer.’’

Bezanson notes that his dreams for the
law school are shared by others at
Washington and Lee.

“*President Wilson and the University
have made a substantial commitment to the
law faculty’s aspirations to provide the very
best legal education in the nation,’’ he says.
“*Thanks to the generosity of many alumni
and the benefaction of Frances and Sydney
Lewis, this is a realistic goal. It is up to me
to share that vision with alumni and other
friends of the University and the School of
Law. Their genuine support and encour-
agement will be critical to our success.

**T believe great things are going to hap-
pen here.”’

 

Only now, some time
after my return from ‘‘The
Land of the Morning
Calm,’’ am I really able to
fashion a coherent mental
picture of my 3% weeks in
Seoul, South Korea, for the
XXIV Summer Olympics.

Hindsight always gives
one the luxury of looking at
things in a little clearer per-
spective, and for that rea-
son I am now beginning
to relish my experience in Seoul.

As a journalist I had thoroughly prepared myself for the
assignment by becoming a virtual Olympics encyclopedia. In
terms of the athletic competition itself, I knew pretty much
what to expect: when the different events would take place;
who the potential standouts would be. I also realized what
havoc the 14-hour time difference would wreak with our
deadlines.

Much of the work had been done ahead of time. We had
attended the Olympic trials, compiled profiles of the various
athletes, prepared feature stories on different aspects of life in
Korea, lined up daily guest columnists, and arranged inter-
views and photo shoots with likely stars such as swimmer
Janet Evans, volleyball captain Karch Kiraly, and sprinter
Florence Griffith Joyner.

Suffice it to say that my summer was consumed by the
Olympics. As Olympics editor, I helped direct a staff of about
23 reporters who worked not only for USA Today but for
other Gannett newspapers as well in a cooperative effort that
gave us the largest newspaper team at the Games.

The significance of my presence in Seoul, as the architect
of USA Today’s daily coverage, was professionally gratifying.
But it was also an opportunity to explore a foreign culture
and perspective, to meet and interact with people from 160
countries around the globe, and to witness the spectacle of
sport.

As a tourist and onlooker, I was overwhelmed by the visit,
because each passing day offered a completely new and unique
experience I never would or could relive. The sights, sounds,
and sensations of the games will remain with me a lifetime.

To provide a glimpse of what the XXIV Olympiad was
like, I offer here a not-so-rapid-fire version, USA Today style,
of some insights from a journal I kept while in Seoul:

¢ Security. This was the biggest uncertainty of the Olym-
pics. Just how secure would the games be? Concern about

Reflections on

Seoul

by John X. Miller, ’77, ’80L

John X. Miller in
USA Today’s Seoul
headquarters

safety kept some spectators
and a few journalists from
attending, but it discourag-
ed none of the athletes.
There was constant anxiety
while we were in Seoul,
with everyone wondering if
the next loud noise we
heard would signal an ex-
plosion or the next newscast
alert us to a hostage
situation. But that ap-
prehension waned with each
passing day.

The Republic of South Korea met the security challenge
head on. Police and soldiers, clad in green, khaki, black,
brown, and blue uniforms, were everywhere.

Airport security typified just how serious the Koreans
were. At departure and arrival gates at Kimpo International
Airport, pairs of soldiers were stationed every 20 yards and
were armed with machine guns. Some even had large,
mysterious-looking cases chained near their posts. Although
they were not obtrusive, guard towers ringed the airport,
which was also encased by barbed-wire fences. Guards even
patrolled the tarmac.

Cars and buses were searched whenever they entered any
official Olympic site, and mirrors were used to check
underneath vehicles. The intensity of security measures varied
from place to place, becoming tighter at times in certain spots
while everything was business as usual somewhere else.

Wherever large crowds were assembled, you were sure to
find busloads of riot police at the ready. Even during the
marathons, soldiers were posted every 30 feet along the entire
26.2-mile route.

Judging from what we learned during briefings with the
State Department and other agencies, the most serious security
threat to the Olympics came from the Japanese Red Army, an

 

John X. Miller has been with USA Today for six years, having
joined the original staff of the Gannett venture a month before
its first edition on Sept. 15, 1982. After coming aboard as a
copy editor, he worked as chief copy editor for two years
before becoming an assignment editor for college and amateur
sports. He was named Olympics editor in May 1987. He came
to USA Today after a year at the Charlotte (N.C.) Observer,
where he worked in the areas of sports copy editing and layout.
After spending a year at Washington and Lee’s law school, he
began his career a little more than 10 years ago at the Roanoke
Times & World News, where he spent three years as copy
editor, state layout editor, and composing room supervisor.

W&L 13

 

ultra-radical terrorist group that supports world revolution,
and from North Korea.

It seemed to me that the North Koreans, who reportedly
back some of the more recent demonstrations by students in
South Korea, could not afford to disrupt the Games. With
their Soviet and Chinese allies participating and the threat of
worldwide disapproval if they tried anything, North Korea had
decided early on that it would be in its best interests not to
interfere.

Besides, tensions between North and South had eased
somewhat before the Games. Nonetheless, I believe, in the
minds of the South Koreans, then as now, the North is a
treacherous adversary.

Despite the violence portrayed in the media, the student
demonstrations never amounted to much. Hundreds of
dissidents—far fewer than the thousands who had taken to the
streets to demand democratization in the summer of
1987—caused some disruption, but nothing that truly brought
embarrassment to the Games’ organizers, which was the
students’ real aim.

To our knowledge, there were never any major security
problems. That is one reason why the closing ceremonies on
Oct. 2 were so joyous. The Olympics had ended with no
bloodshed.

e Ben Johnson. The blemish of the Games, of course,
was the banning of the Canadian sprinter for the use of
anabolic steroids.

Was it the biggest scandal in Olympic history? On the
competition side, yes. The men’s 100 wo ee
meters was the premier event of these angen : Ae A ar
Games. The world’s fastest man was pit- ee
ted against Carl Lewis, track and field’s bs
top all-around athlete. The hype for the ait
race was exceeded only by the sense of . ae
anticipation.

Aided by the steroid stanozolol,
Johnson won in a world-record time of
9.79 seconds and ended, so we thought,
Lewis’ dream of repeating his four gold-
medal performance of 1984.

Johnson’s use of drugs only slightly
diminishes the stature of that race in my
mind. With hundreds of millions of peo-
ple watching on television, I was just 40
feet away from the fastest 100 meters
ever run.

Olympic officials were so embarrassed
about the doping scandals—six athletes in
all lost their medals—that they did not
hold public ceremonies for the re-
awarding of the prizes.

The revelation about Johnson’s
steroid use must surely have been the
bleakest moment of his life, but the news
meant the big story for us, what every
journalist relishes. We got wind of what
we call the ‘‘breaking story’’ at about 4 a.m. Sept. 25, hich
was 2 p.m. Sept. 24 in our offices in Arlington, Va. At first,
it quoted unnamed sources as having said Johnson had tested
positive for steroids. By 5 a.m., an Italian official was on
record confirming these early reports.

And by 5:30 a.m., I was in a taxi with staff writer Steve
Woodward and columnist Tom Weir headed toward our office
at the press center. Before leaving, I had instructed our track
and field writer, Dick Patrick, to go to the athletes’ village,

144 W&L

Sits

 

and I had sent another reporter and photographer to Kimpo
Airport in hopes of catching Johnson before he left the
country.

By 9:30 a.m. (7:30 p.m. in Arlington), we knew there was
a man named Ben Johnson leaving Kimpo on a flight to
Toronto with a stopover in Tokyo. It turned out not to be our
Ben Johnson, but writer Mel Antonen did get a great story on
Ben Johnson of Cleveland, Ohio, and the many problems his
name had caused him.

We also had another ace: Carl Lewis was ‘‘working’’ for
us, writing an exclusive daily diary. Before long, foreign and
U.S. journalists were beating our doors down, wondering
what Lewis had to say about the entire episode.

Lewis did not have much to say at first, but when he did
decide to talk, he spoke first through USA Today in the
Wednesday, Sept. 27, edition. His diary entry of Sept. 28
spoke at length about the scandal and his feelings about
receiving the gold after all.

Our coverage of the scandal ranged from a graphic illustra-
tion of how steroids affect the body, to a cover story dealing
with the immediate repercussions of the incident, to a
biographical sketch of Johnson. We believe our treatment of
the story was as thorough and complete as anyone’s.

e Shopping. This was the second-most popular sport in
Seoul. Itaewon—a renowned shopping district for tourists by
day, a disco and nightlife hub after dark—was a virtual shop-
pers’ paradise.

Anything you wanted could be custom made within a mat-

; ter of days: tailored suits, shirts, leather
goods of any description, eelskin cowboy
boots, or full-length cashmere and fur
coats. Even with price gouging (residents
said prices had escalated between 30 and
40 percent) you could still buy most
tailored wares for about half what you
would pay in the United States. And if
you cared to venture into other dongs, or
districts, in Seoul or in other cities such
as Pusan or Taegu, you could find even
better bargains.

The humanity, the maelstrom of
sights and sounds, were all quite different
from anything I had seen before. As I
drove through the city, it was incredible
to see the endless maze of alleyways and
streets, with their shops and storefronts
teeming with people. In Itaewon
sidewalks were lined with stands where
merchants sold everything from silk
scarves and neckties, hats, and hand-
carved wooden jewelry boxes to an
endless assortment of Olympic T-shirts.
The asking price? About 5,000 won, or
$6.50.

Then there were the black-market

goods, or ‘‘knockoffs.’’ ‘‘Designer”’
handbags and luggage, jewelry, clothes, and shoes were so
close to the real thing that bargain-hunters didn’t quibble. rs
They looked authentic, down to the Louis Vuitton zippers,
wrist bands on the Gucci watches, and labels in the Italian :1s
sweaters.

Just before dusk a metamorphosis occurred, transforming
the district into Seoul’s nightclub strip, where neon-bright
discos, bars, and dance clubs lined the streets. And if the
music—American, for the most part, and your choice of jazz,

soul, ear-splitting rock’n’roll, R&B, or country western—did
not entice you, there were hucksters of all sorts who would
try.

e Friends. The Koreans were genuine in the appreciation,
warmth, and friendship they showed toward Americans,
although in my opinion the relationship was strained a bit by
NBC’s sometimes callous portrayal of the country and its peo-
ple. Insensitivity to their customs, traditions, and way of life
caused some friction, but I think in general they and we came
away with a better understanding of each other. Recognizing
the unique relationship that exists between the United States
and Korea, they had expected to be treated as friends.

What was lost on the American public was the fact that
Korea had risen from the ashes of the Korean War and 35
years of Japanese occupation that occurred prior to the war to
pull off the remarkable feat of playing host to the interna-
tional Games. The Olympics was the coming-out party for
Korea and its inquisitive, unselfish, and determined people.

There were enough Western influences— such as Pizza Hut
or a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant within a 10-minute
walk from the Press Center—to offset Korea’s Oriental od-
dities, so it was very easy to feel comfortable. Still it was a
strange land, and here are a few of the more unusual sights
and customs:

—Korean women routinely entered and cleaned men’s
public restrooms, at any time of the day, without warning.

—What at first looked like huge baseball backstops eight
stories high were actually golf driving ranges. Tennis courts
and clubs abound in Seoul, too. Most of the courts are dirt,
not clay, and hard-court surfaces are harder to find.

—Korean girls were often seen holding hands with other
girls, and occasionally boys could be seen holding hands with
each other as well. This was nothing more than a friendly
gesture. Korean boys and girls, however, rarely hold hands in
public, and necking is a no-no.

—Up to 70 percent of Korean men smoke, but it was
~ unusual to see a woman smoke, even in a disco or bar.

—As you walked along any street, your nose was assaulted
by invisible clouds of garlic. The odor comes from heavy
doses of garlic in the Koreans’ diet. They use it as liberally as
we use salt and pepper.

—Dark-complexioned people and redheads are not often
seen in Korea, so more than once I was asked to pose with a
family or with children, as their American uncle.

—At night, drivers turn off their headlights at intersections
as a courtesy and to save energy.

—Another nocturnal phenomenon is the sudden ap-
pearance of outdoor food stands that serve everything from
fresh squid and sushi to tubu (a bean curd) and dried
seaweed. Needless to say, Westerners often gawked but rarely
consumed.

e The Olympic spirit. Hokey as it may sound, there was
a feeling of kinship and cohesiveness pervasive at the Games
because it was a shared experience; so many had come
together for a common purpose.

Getting swept up in the euphoria is something journalists
consciously try to avoid. Sports departments have a saying:
‘‘no cheering in the press box,’’ which means we are there to
cover events, not participate in them. That holds true for any
‘‘ordinary’’ sports spectacle, such as the Super Bowl, World
Series, or a college bowl game. But there are few events like
the Olympics, which are held for an extended period of time,
in a foreign country, with people united from so many dif-
ferent places.

Pin trading, the somewhat juvenile act of bartering to ob-
tain country and team insignia pins, was one popular way to
collect memorabilia and memories from the Olympics. I must
confess I was a ‘‘pinhead,’’ showcasing my collection on a
baseball cap. My final pin count was 51, including two that I
treasured most: a 1980 Soviet modern pentathlon pin, and one
from the opening ceremonies in Seoul.

I finally had to stop wearing the cap. It had become too
heavy.

 

 

The Seoul Achievement

Covering the Olympics provided a
monumental journalistic challenge. At
USA Today, we were successful because
we worked hard (I was generally in the
office from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m.), we had an
excellent team, and we took advantage of
the latest technology available.

It took mere seconds for reporters and
editors in Seoul to communicate with our
Arlington, Va., offices via computer.
Reporters using lap-top computers could
send stories over the telephone to our por-
table editing system in the Press Center.
After editing, the stories were then
transmitted by a satellite link to New
York, from where they were relayed to
Arlington. On deadline, we could do this
in less than two minutes.

Since we could work right up until

deadline, we were able to get the latest
news in the paper, which was vital since
most high-profile events were on prime-
time television.

The newest technology—so new it had
never been used before by anyone,
anywhere—drove our photo operation,
too. Ordinarily, it takes about 30 minutes
to transmit a color picture using the best
of conventional technology. USA Today
had used those methods very effectively
in Calgary for the winter games. But in
Seoul, it took us about six minutes. The
difference—digitally transmitted images.

The system worked like this: Com-
ponents of a color slide are relayed six
times (for the colors red, blue, green,
yellow, and magenta, and a ‘‘register,”’
the framework onto which the colors are

laid). They were sent first by satellite, and
then by fiber-optic telephone lines. Six of
these $17,000 transmitters were operating
around the clock not only for USA To-
day but for the 89 other Gannett
newspapers as well.

Our team of 26 reporters, 15 editors,
and 20 photographers and technicians did
not have the chance to see much of our
handiwork until we returned to the
United States. But the figures that greeted
us then were gratifying: during the 10
days of our Olympics coverage, Sept.
19-23 and 26-30, average daily circulation
jumped by about 108,000 papers; $4
million of advertising was sold during the
week of Sept. 25, setting a record for
USA Today; and subscription calls were
up 35 percent.

 

W&L

15

 

Allan Bloom and the
W&L Mind

 

W&L Faculty Confront The Closing of the American Mind

 

 

John W. Elrod
Vice President, Academic Affairs

he bloom is off Bloom. After thriv-

; ing on the New York Times best seller

list for more than 30 weeks last year,

Allan Bloom’s The Closing of the American
Mind has dropped from sight.

A teacher of political science at the
University of Chicago, where he is also a
member of the famous Committee on Social
Thought, Bloom has produced a densely
written book arguing that the American col-
lege/university has forsaken its longstanding
raison d’etre to educate the young according
to the truths built up over centuries in the
intellectual traditions of the West. While the
erosion of these truths began in the 18th cen-
tury, in Bloom’s view it reached its logical
and historical outcome in our own. The con-
sequences of this erosion are grave, accor-
ding to Bloom, who believes that our univer-

sities are no longer preparing an elite cadre

of graduates to be the country’s leaders of
the future.

His list of those responsible for our in-
ternal decay is a curious mixture of in-
dividuals and movements: Thomas Hobbes;
John Stuart Mill; John Dewey; historicism;
anthropology; the student revolution of the
1960s; feminism; area studies programs in
higher education like native American,
black, and women’s studies programs; and,
most damaging of all, the popularization in
American culture of the writings of German
philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and Mar-
tin Heidegger.

146 W&L

Bloom’s three-part book opens with a
description of the problem as he sees it: the
loss of conviction among students in our
most selective colleges and universities that
Western intellectual and cultural traditions
are better than others. In Part II he offers
a historical diagnosis of the factors causing
this erosion of conviction, and in Part III he
proposes a solution.

The book was warmly received in its early
reviews, and sales boomed, with more than
500,000 copies sold. It is something of a
mystery how a book devoted largely to Nietz-
sche and Heidegger could interest so many
readers. Perhaps it was the title that did it,
plus the general knowledge that this was the
most polemical of all the higher-education-
bashing books of the last few years. While
Bill Bennett’s criticisms of higher education
did not play well in the academy, they have
been well received in Reagan’s America, and
Bloom’s book perhaps rode that tide of
discontent. In any event, it opened well with
the reviews and ended badly once the pro-
fessors took note. Richard Rorty in The New
Republic, Martha Nussbaum in the New
York Review of Books, and Robert Paul
Wolff in Academe criticized it for being anti-
democratic, philosophically untutored, and
reactionary.

The book deserved these critical reviews,
for much of it reads like a cranky old man’s
reaction to a changing world that he does not
very well understand or appreciate. Even
with all its problems, however, Bloom does
offer original versions of criticisms of higher
education that have wide currency both in
and outside the academy. In the following
pages I will describe these charges, and then
three of my faculty colleagues will offer their
responses.

To begin with, our students do not know
very much when they arrive at college, nor
do they write as well as they might be ex-
pected to. They lack reasonable knowledge
of American history and literature. They are
not able to distinguish the key political ideas
in this country’s founding documents, nor
do they understand the place of religion in
the nation’s founding and the role played by
its institutions throughout our history. They
do not know the most elementary geographic

facts about the arrangements of cities, na-
tions, and continents on this planet. As for
math and science, one of the genuine scan-
dals of American secondary and higher
education is its failure to attract and teach
students who have an abiding interest in both
fields.

That students cannot write without com-
mitting the most elementary errors in gram-
mar and punctuation is a criticism their
teachers constantly echo on campuses across
the country. As often repeated is the obser-
vation that students are so ignorant about
history and important literary and religious
traditions that little may be assumed about
a common fund of cultural and historical
knowledge shared by student and teacher
alike.

Our students are not ‘‘culturally
literate,’’ complains E. B. Hirsch Jr. in his
book Cultural Literacy. Published in 1987
alongside Bloom’s book and much over-
shadowed by it, Hirsch’s work argues that
the disintegration of a common core cur-
riculum in American secondary education in
the 1960s has retarded advanced intensive
learning that could be expected of students
with the right background knowledge.
(Hirsch recently restated the argument of his
book in a short article in the July/August
issue of Choice magazine.)

Students simply cannot learn as much or
as deeply as they can when they possess the
requisite background knowledge. For a dif-
ferent reason, Bloom also laments the demise
of this core of cultural literacy that could be
assumed by teachers in our highly selective
colleges and universities. He is worried both
about the health of our democracy as a stur-
dy, vigorous, and self-confident political
system and about the spiritual health of its
citizens as individuals.

He confesses that earlier in his career he
had thought that our most talented students
were motivated by a natural desire to learn
and that he need trade only on that desire
in teaching his students well. He even believ-
ed that the mildly embarrassing lack of
cultural knowledge and sophistication of
American college students in comparison
with their European counterparts was in fact
an advantage. Their spirited desire to learn,

 

he thought, was not then jaundiced and pre-
judiced by what they had learned before they
arrived at the university.

Without quite realizing it, Bloom admits
that all along he had been trading on
something more than just his students’
natural thirst for knowledge. He had in fact
been relying upon their knowledge and
respect for the political ideas in our founding
documents and their familiarity with the Bi-
ble. While America is not like Europe, where
cultures are based on the works of great
authors like Descartes and Pascal in France
and Goethe in Germany, its character has
nevertheless been fundamentally shaped by
the Declaration of Independence, the Con-
stitution, and the Bible.

Until recently, Bloom’s students arrived
at the university with a knowledge of these
documents and a respect for the story they
told about ‘‘the unbroken, ineluctable pro-
gress of freedom and equality.’’ Knowledge
of and respect for the political sinews of this
country provided students with an anchor,
a principled frame of reference from which
to study and judge the political systems of
other societies, as well as inadequacies in our
own. Knowledge of the Bible is just as im-
portant for Bloom, who admits that ‘“‘the
gods never walked very tall in our political
life or in our schools.’’ Not so in the fami-
ly. There, Americans learned to face and deal
with the fundamental problems of human

life. This knowledge too, Bloom claims, was »

being traded on in his classroom. As the
Declaration was the assumed political point
of reference, the Bible was the spiritual point
of reference.

This is an interesting version of the
‘‘core,’’ omitting as it does mathematics, the
natural sciences, and so much more. It is in
fact a moralist’s core in the sense that it em-
phasizes character development as a central
goal of education. Education for Bloom is
not only the acquiring of factual informa-
tion about the world. It is also, and more
fundamentally, the shaping of persons accor-
ding to the most basic tenets of a culture.

Students must arrive at the university
with a working knowledge of our political
and religious traditions, documents, and
beliefs (and along with this, one assumes, a
coherent understanding of our history) if
higher education is to succeed in preparing
citizens to perpetuate the culture they have
received from their forebears. Bloom claims
that this is no longer occurring in American
education and that its rapid and unfortunate
demise began during his career as a teacher
of college students.

While our schools and colleges have fail-
ed to pass on to the next generation of
America’s leaders a core of moral
knowledge, an even more serious problem is

to be found in our students’ relativism.

There is one thing a professor can be ab-
solutely certain of: almost every student
entering the university believes, or says he
believes, that truth is relative. ... The
relativity of truth is not a theoretical insight
but a moral postulate, the condition of a
free society, or so they see it.
What precisely does Bloom mean by
relativism? His not very clear answer is that
relativism is openness, a moral stance that
acknowledges the equal legitimacy of all
competing and conflicting cultural claims.
Bloom’s modern cultural relativist is one who
postulates that there is no rational basis for
claiming that any culturally defined and
practiced way of life is superior to any other.

The only ‘‘enemy’’ of Bloom’s relativist is _

‘‘the man who is not open to everything.’’

The postulate is a moral and American
one, because it is held in defense of ‘‘equality
in the republic of cultures.’’ Bloom’s
relativist, out of a principled request for the
equality of all cultures, could never be found
guilty of xenophobia, racism, chauvinism,
and other forms of cultural imperialism. Our
own past is filled with examples of criminal
and immoral conduct against those within
our borders and beyond who were too weak
to defend themselves against our misguided
sense of superiority. What better evidence,
the relativist wonders, can one ask for in
defense of the moral superiority of relativism
as Openness?

But for Bloom, relativizing openness is.

superior only in appearance. It is clearly in-
ferior to an earlier form of openness that ra-
tionally looked for truth and goodness in all
cultural forms. The Greeks were the first in
the West to open themselves to other cultures
and histories in order to measure them
against absolute standards of justice and
goodness—what Bloom calls “‘nature.’’

History and anthropology were understood
by the Greeks to be useful only in discover-
ing what the past and other peoples had to
contribute to the discovery of nature.
Historians and anthropologists were to put
people and their conventions to the test, as
Socrates did individuals, and go beyond
them.

The great project of the West, beginning with
the Greeks, has been the search for the true
nature of things both natural and social. The
philosophical and scientific task set for itself
by the West was to discover things as they
truly are. In this sense, openness used to be
a virtue that permitted us to seek truth and
goodness through reason wherever it could
be found. Now, thinks Bloom, it has been
perverted to mean the uncritical acceptance
of most everything one finds in the practices
and beliefs of the republic of cultures.
Bloom says that we have gotten ourselves
into this fix by asserting dogmatically that

(1) there is no such thing as ‘‘nature’’ and
(2) all thought and speech are culture-bound
and hence unable to transcend their time and
place to apprehend and state anything
universal. Bloom accuses both students and
their teachers of resting relativism as open-
ness on one of the simplest of logical errors:
Because there are a diversity of cultures, it
is not possible for anyone to claim that one
culture is superior or inferior to any other.
He seems to think that this sophomoric
reasoning error has become the basis of our
dogmatic assertion that it is impossible to
distinguish between good, better, and best
in our study of cultures.

Herodotus was at least as aware as we are
of the rich diversity of cultures. But he took
this observation to be an invitation to in-
vestigate all of them to see what was good
and bad about each and find out what he
could learn about good and bad from them.
Modern relativists take that same observa-
tion as proof that such an investigation is
impossible and thus that one must be
respectful of all of them.

This modern openness, Bloom thinks, is a
‘‘sreat closing’’ to the deeply Western pro-
ject to discover the way things really are and
to fashion ourselves accordingly.

The third of Bloom’s criticisms is that his
students no longer show evidence of a strong
and healthy eroticism. This seems like an odd
criticism in an age of sexual liberation, but
Bloom has the word’s Platonic and not con-
ventional definition in mind. In the Platonic
sense, eroticism is the human longing for
completion. It is a feeling of incompleteness,
a sense of dissatisfaction with oneself, and
the quest to overcome it. A university educa-
tion was once viewed, Bloom thinks, as a
means for attaining completeness.

A significant number of students used to
arrive at the university physically and
spiritually virginal, expecting to lose their
innocence there. Their lust was mixed into
everything they thought and did. They were
painfully aware that they wanted something
but were not quite sure exactly what it was,
what form it would take and what it all
meant. The range of satisfactions intimated
by their desire moved from prostitutes to
Plato, from the criminal to the sublime.
Above all they looked for instruction. Prac-
tically everything they read in the
humanities and the social sciences might be
a source of learning about their pain, and
a path to its healing. This powerful tension,
this literal lust for knowledge, was what a
teacher could see in the eyes of those who
flattered him by giving such evidence of
their need for him.

Teachers were needed to satisfy students’
erotic desire to know themselves.

Not anymore. No Alcibiades is Bloom’s
modern university student. His characteristic
student has no binding past and an indeter-
minate future. The modern university stu-
dent has no reason to want to be anything

W&L = 17

 

 

in particular, with the exception of those who
desire to become ‘‘competent specialists.”’
The student’s world is only as it presents
itself to the senses, ‘‘unadorned by imagina-
tion and devoid of ideals.’’ He or she does
not seek wholeness but ‘‘easy, clinical, and
sterile satisfactions of body and soul... .”’

Bloom believes that in their music, rela-
tionships, and attitudes toward education,
his students settle for the satisfaction of their
barest and most immediate and trivial
physical and mental desires. In all three, he
finds little or no evidence that students in this
generation are searching deeply for what is
fundamental and abiding in themselves,
others, and nature. There is no wonder,
mystery, or deep despair and pain to be
resolved and relieved in both the life of the
mind and relationships with others and
natures.

These, then, are Bloom’s three criticisms
of American higher education. The question
of whether any or all of them are apt in prin-
ciple or in particular at Washington and Lee
University, I leave to Professors Hughes,
Sessions, and Hodges.

 

 

Delos D. Hughes
Professor of Politics

Allan Bloom’s theme is all too familiar.
There is always a ready audience for it when,
as in this case, the theme is presented in a
sufficiently alarming style. In Bloom’s ver-
sion, the academy is the handbasket in which
the younger generation is going to hell, pull-
ing Western civilization down with it, or at
least American civilization. As his story un-
folds, the surprise is only that the American
community has lasted so long, for our
disease is rampant, deep-rooted, and almost
certainly fatal.

To attack Bloom from inside the
academy is a frustrating business because to
dispute him is to confirm what he complains

18 W&L

of. The university, he thinks, has succumb-
ed to the siren songs of value relativism and
other varieties of faddish nonsense. It has
abandoned the classical truths and ‘‘pre-
judices’’ that make virtue and civility possi-
ble. Of course, then, the academic critic is
unable to see the sense in Bloom’s critique
of the education of the young, his lament for
an academic paradise lost. But the critical
itch is not easily calmed in any academic, so
here are more words on a few of Bloom’s
topics.
Students. From my perspective as a teacher,
Allan Bloom’s view of what students once
were appears more likely Bloom’s memory
of what he once was. As many of us do,
especially those of us who go on to teach,
he remembers himself as an ideal student. It
is almost certainly a romanticized account.
Students today—at Washington and Lee
and elsewhere—are a greatly varied lot, as
students everywhere have ever been. Some
do display that sense of incompletion that,
Bloom remembers, drove both the intellec-
tual curiosity and the sex lives of students of
his generation. Many do not. As I remember
it and as I read the accounts of others before
my time, many did not in earlier student
generations either. Neither then nor now was
there a general self-awareness and apprecia-
tion of an erotic impulse in human nature.
Students were just as puzzled then as now
about what was happening to them. And
they are just as interested in it now as they
were then.

Relativism. The key issue in Bloom’s lament
is relativism. Students arrive at the universi-
ty not only without fixed value beliefs, but
convinced that there can be none worth their
allegiance. The contemporary university,
moreover, is not inclined to try dissuading
them from this conclusion.

Bloom both misstates what the relativist’s
position is and betrays the mission of the
university in urging his different view on us.
Modern cultural or value relativism does not
encourage us not to make value judgments.
It acknowledges the necessity of doing so.
Relativists can condemn Nazi horrors; they
know that they must take a stand, because
they know that not to do so is in itself a
stand.

But relativists are characterized by two
distinctive qualities: They are engaged by the
question of how it is possible to make moral
judgments; and they are skeptical that any
value judgment can be so certain as not to
need constant review. Bloom is apparently
not interested in the first question, and he
is certainly no skeptic. His view is utilitarian.
He advises that because the consequences of
value relativism are so dire, we ought not to
be relativists. We ought to be taught ‘‘pre-
judices’’ and universities ought to revere

those prejudices because we can build wor-
thy human beings, constructive citizens, and
an admirable culture upon them. The
relativist’s response is twofold: to begin with
‘*prejudices’’ is to give up the university’s
traditional mission to search for truth; to go
no further than ‘‘prejudices’’ puts this
culture in the same category as any other,
even the fascist.

Political Science. Bloom is especially hard on
his colleagues in political science for having
abandoned the traditions entrusted to them
by the ancients. They are, he believes, unable
to respond appropriately to the relativism of
their students because they are themselves
relativists, i.e., persons of no fixed values.

On the nature of the social science enter-
prise Bloom shows not simply another view
of it, but a fundamental misunderstanding
of it. His claim that ‘‘political science
resembles a rather haphazard bazaar with
shops by a mixed population’’ is not farfet-
ched. But Bloom would have us throw out
the newly arrived shopkeepers and their
goods because those who got there first have
what we really need.

The older purveyors of ideas about
justice and the nature of the state, he
believes, do not need the newer merchants
of behaviorism, social psychology, policy
studies, social choice, game theory, positive
political theory, and the other specialty
shops. He thinks them to be competitors in
the bazaar. A more appropriate view is that
their offerings are spices for the classical in-
quiries of political philosophy, just as they
may see his wares as complements to their
own.

In many particulars Bloom is a construc-
tive critic, and there may always be some
value in taking seriously what John Elrod
calls ‘‘a cranky old man’s reaction to a
changing world that he does not very well
understand or appreciate.’’ One complaint
that we might take seriously at Washington
and Lee, for example, concerns the relation-
ship of the university to the world at large.
Understanding that world is a large part of
our purpose; detachment from that world
may be the condition of our understanding.

Understanding the political world clear-
ly requires us to eschew partisanship, but to
what extent does that mean non-
participation? To what extent does it allow
us to permit others to set our agenda by con-
ditional offers of resources that we need?

Bloom has properly called our attention
to some dangers of involving ourselves too
much in the world around us. But his main
theme is one every generation resurrects to
convince itself of its own special merit com-
pared to all who later ridicule and bedevil it,
or who just ignore it.

 

 

W. Lad Sessions
Professor of Philosophy

Bloom is provocative about things that
matter. He moves us to ask deep and
dangerous questions not often encouraged by
our culture—questions about our education
and our schools, about our intellectual
heritage and our culture, and about ourselves
and our ‘‘nature.’’ One need not agree with
his answers to these questions to find his
book well worth reading and discussing.

Unfortunately, not all that the book pro-
vokes will be thoughtful discussion, largely
because of Bloom’s own inadequacies.
Perhaps his greatest failing (the flip side of
his commercial success) is his substitution of
blunderbuss rhetoric, mind-numbing
generalization, and idiosyncratic impression
for careful analysis, patient argument, and
objective evidence. Apparently he has not yet
been seduced by that part of Western tradi-
tion he professes to love so well, which seeks
not merely synoptic vision but also clarity
and precision, in order to see things both
whole and clear.

So in response I want to get a little clearer
on one of Bloom’s many pronouncements—
in fact, the very first sentence of his introduc-
tion: ‘‘There is one thing a professor can be
absolutely certain of: almost every student
entering the university believes, or says he
believes, that truth is relative.’’ This is not
an inessential point; the alleged mind-closing
relativism of the current student ‘‘genera-
tion’’ is one of Bloom’s grimmest bugbears.

Note first that Bloom’s only authority for
this sweeping generalization is Bloom. His
teaching of ‘‘thousands’’ of students in a
handful of elite universities such as Cornell
and Chicago provides his only evidence that
modern students are relativists. But let’s
grant him the point that today’s students—
or most of them at any rate—are relativists.
My own experience in teaching hundreds of
Washington and Lee students in beginning
philosophy courses (especially in Philosophy

101, which deals with moral problems) since
1971 supports something like this generaliza-
tion. But precisely what does it mean to say
they are relativists?

I doubt that Bloom means what he says
here. Is ail truth supposed to be relative?
Elsewhere in the book Bloom allows that at
least natural science contains truth, that
‘‘natural science is doing just fine’’ as a
discipline, and he provides no hint that he
thinks students believe otherwise. The real
problem that excites Bloom, I think, con-
cerns not a// truth but only important truth,
truth about matters of importance, about
moral, aesthetic, and religious truth, about
how we should live, about the good life for
human beings. Students do not think that all
truth-values are relative; they think that on-
ly value-truth is relative.

Still greater clarity is needed. Perhaps
some distinctions missing in, or missed by,
Bloom would help. First, is the view in ques-
tion that there is truth and it is relative, that
there is truth but it cannot be known by
(relative to) us, or that there is no truth at
all? Bloom conflates these views, thinking
relativism and skepticism only pit stops on
the path to alethic nihilism. In my experience
students are no clearer than Bloom on this
score, but that is no compliment to Bloom.

Second, there are as many kinds of
relativism as there are kinds of relata; to
what or to whom is truth supposed to be
relative? That a proposition’s truth is relative
to its referent should concern no one; wor-
ries begin only when truth is supposed
relative to someone or something else—
perhaps to the person who believes the pro-
position, or that person’s environing socie-
ty. But even so the relativity of values (to
time, place, and person) need not entail the
relativity of truth about values.

Third, do students actually believe in
relativism—in their ‘‘heart of hearts,’’ as it
were—or do they only say or imply they so
believe? This is no idle point. It may be
fashionable for today’s students to dance to
the relativistic rag, but without any deep con-
viction. What they really believe can emerge
only in deep and careful dialogue. But since
dialogue entails not merely expressing beliefs
but also examining them, and since most
types of student relativism today are unex-
amined, it is not so clear what students real-
ly believe, deep down. In my experience
students wear their relativism upon their
sleeves—though often, I regret to report, it
also appears on the screens of their word
processors.

Fourth, if some students actually do have
reasons for their relativistic beliefs, what are
these reasons? Is it because they unthinkingly
swallow the media’s notion—so convenient
to advertisers—of ‘‘different strokes for dif-

ferent folks’’? Is it because they have em-
braced the patent non sequitur flagged by
Dean Elrod that since different folks do have
different strokes (and since all are entitled
to ‘‘do their own thing,’’) the truth about
values is relative to different persons? Or is
it due to the rather complicated and dismal
intellectual history described by Bloom (with
Nietzsche as the special villain)? (Do they
even have reasons, or are there only causes,
for their beliefs?)

Fifth, what is supposed to be the alter-
native to relativism about value-truth?
Bloom apparently recognizes only his own
version: Classical Western value-beliefs are
true, and demonstrably superior to those in
any other culture, because they alone are
deeply rooted in ‘‘the nature of man.’’ (I
pause to note that Bloom speaks always of
‘‘man,’’ ostensibly in the generic sense but
with a glaringly sexist twist in such sentences
as the following: ‘‘The original intention of
the reformed academies and universities was
to provide a publicly respected place—and
a means of support—for theoretical men, of

whom at best there are only a few in any na-
tion, to meet, exchange their thoughts and
train young persons in the ways of science’’
[emphasis added].) But surely there are non-
Bloomian alternatives to relativism: e.g., that
no culture has a monopoly on value, or on
the highest values, and that different values
differently expressed in different cultures are
complementary, not exclusive.

So my response to Bloom on relativism
is complex, as I believe the issue is complex.
More to the point: as the students are com-
plex. Many of the students I teach at W&L
are indeed moral and value relativists, of
various stripes and degrees. Some few hold
relativism to be absolute truth, but most are
tepid, confused, and tentative. Some have
been seduced by the shallow notion of ‘‘life-
style’? and some have been moved by a
misguided tolerance of absolutely anything;
yet others have seen the unattractive im-
perialism of Western culture when absolutiz-
ed a la Bloom; and there are many other
variations. No doubt these many flowerings
of ‘‘Relativism’’ might seem a problem for
absolutistic professors like Bloom.

But what Bloom fails to notice is this:
What a wonderful opportunity relativism
provides for Socratic philosophers! Bloom
berates his relativistic students for their
‘‘closed’’ minds, because their relativism
makes them unreceptive to the views Bloom
wishes to inculcate. How ironic that his hero
should be Socrates! Socrates encountered
plenty of relativists in his day, including the
granddaddy of them all, the Sophist Pro-
tagoras (‘‘man is the measure of all things’’).

But rather than dismissing them for

W&L 19

 

 

possessing closed minds, Socrates welcom-
ed them for sharing his own need and abili-
ty for self-examination—they seemed to lack,
alas, only the desire to undertake the
strenuous labor of inquiry, but even that was
mostly a matter of ignorance. The many
varieties of relativism then are just so many
wonderful occasions for doing philosophy—
opportunities for Socrates, if not for Bloom.
Bloom’s closed minds are Socrates’ unopen-
ed minds, ones that have not yet been open-
ed by and to philosophy.

 

 

Louis W. Hodges
Professor of Religion

Bloom’s is an important book, for at
least two reasons. It raises crucial questions
and it invites us to a renewed vision of the
mission of education. Many in the educa-
tional establishment have liked neither his
answers nor his vision, but that reaction may
be rooted as much in defensiveness as in
wisdom.

My assigned task is to comment on
Bloom’s theses in light of my experience at
Washington and Lee. This is my 29th year
on the faculty. What follows reflects my best
judgments about education at Washington
and Lee when examining the University in
light of the larger picture of higher educa-
tion in this country.

Let us take his three major points one at
a time. The first, to quote Dean Elrod, is that
‘our students do not know very much when
they arrive at college, nor do they write as
well as they might be expected to.’’ Of
course, on both counts. All of us long for
students who enter college knowing more
and writing well. The more they know the
more we can teach. The teacher who does not
have to worry about basic writing skills can
get on with the business of substantive
matters.

But I cannot discern that today’s students

20 W&L

enter with less knowledge and writing skill
than did students in earlier years. They know
different things, to be sure, but overall not
discernibly less. It is true that generally they
do not know the biblical tradition as well as
students coming to college in 1960.

Yet Bloom’s agenda is more profound.
He is not concerned merely with technical
literacy and skill. He pushes a particular im-
age of the ‘‘educated person.’’ It is only a
subthesis that students now arrive at college
less far along toward being educated than
they did earlier in his teaching career.

His ‘‘educated person’’ has two essential
attributes. First, that person is intellectually
sophisticated so as to comprehend the cen-
tral ideas, thoughts, and conceptions that
have molded Western thought. This is the
noetic dimension of education. Second, the
educated person possesses a commitment to
a special set of ideals and values concerning
oneself and one’s relations to others, indeed
values relating to what it means to be a per-
son. This is the volitional dimension. Elrod
identifies the second component as
‘‘character development,’’ a phrase that
seems to me not to capture what Bloom is
about.

Bloom does seem, as Elrod asserts, to
give the volitional dimension priority over
the noetic. Bloom assumes, though he does
not say it explicitly, that the understanding
of ideas (information and its organizing prin-
ciples) awaits the commitments that signal
those ideas to be important and worthy of
attention. In this he reflects a Western tradi-
tion dating back at least to Anselm (1077
A.D.): sedo credo ut intelligam, ‘‘but I
believe so that I may understand.”’

It seems clear that General Lee believed
that education necessarily involves both the
noetic and the volitional. Whether one has
logical or psychological priority is not clear,
but both are essential to the mature, the
‘‘educated,’’ person. (‘‘Honor’’ means not
only being honorable but honoring others,
valuing others.)

It seems to me that Bloom is right in his
assumption that the communication of ideas
depends upon a prior communication: that
the ideas are important, i.e., have value. At
least in that sense I believe that the ax-
iological is psychologically (chronologically)
prior to the noetic. But that is a matter for
pedagogy. What is important is that a well-
informed moral dwarf is no more educated
that an ignorant saint. The mastery of ideas
is no more and no less essential to being
human than is commitment to ideals.

This combination of understanding and
commitment is reflected in our understan-
ding of what we are about at Washington
and Lee. It appears in many places in our
tradition, but nowhere more clearly than in

a speech then-President Robert E. R.
Huntley gave before the New York alumni
chapter. Huntley said, ‘‘A liberal education
is intended to cause the mind to become as
useful as it is capable of being. . . . What are
the attributes of a useful mind? The principal
attribute is the capacity for sustained,
disciplined thought—about any significant
subject to which it may assign itself.”’

Our traditions (the Honor System, the
speaking tradition, etc.) all reflect what it
means to be a ‘‘gentleman’’ in Lee’s terms.
The overarching quality of a gentleman is
that he or she takes self and others serious-
ly. In Kant’s terms that means treating others
always as ends in themselves and never as
means only. In Jesus’ terms it means loving
neighbor as self.

Bloom’s other two concerns, relativism
and the loss of eroticism, as Elrod has iden-
tified them, must here receive short shrift.
Not that they are unimportant, but space
constraints restrain.

With regard to relativism, Bloom is right
on target. Most of the students I have taught
in the last 20 years are relativists, and of an
unsophisticated variety. There is no core
value, no established moral order, by which
to judge applied values and policies posited
by our leaders. For example, without some
understanding of what it means to be human
and without some inclination to be humane,
students cannot evaluate current debates and
policies on abortion, dying, and AIDS. One
who is awash in the view that all values are
culturally (maybe even individually) relative,
can make no serious judgments at all. These
days many students, perhaps most, float on
that barren sea. But so does our society, a
society whose president turns to astrology.

Eroticism for Plato is the longing and
striving for human fulfillment. Bloom thinks
that the erotic impulse is diminished in our
time. I think not. The impulse is there, but
the avenues chosen to satisfy it are defective.
Hedonism, the life most promoted by
modern industry, is chosen by many as the
best route to human fulfillment. Desire routs
duty as our moral gyroscope. That our erotic
impulse can and will recover seems highly
likely. Already students show longing for
meaning that transcends hedonic satisfac-
tions. More and more they ask: Is this all
there is to life? Why am I here?

So far as Washington and Lee is concern-
ed, in my experience our past is solid, pre-
Bloom, and our future is securable, provid-
ed we continue the search for dispositions
and methods to HONOR ourselves and
others. I share Bloom’s vision of the
educated person, and I think Washington
and Lee continues to educate.

 

the

Fall Gazette

|
\
i
f

 

 

Gazette

 

Castle, Lenfest, Van Leer
appointed to Board of Trustees

Three alumni were elected to the
Washington and Lee Board of Trustees dur-
ing the Board’s fall meeting held in Lex-
ington in October.

The new members are Gray C. Castle,
°53, ’55L, of New Canaan, Ct.; H. F.
(Gerry) Lenfest, 53, of Huntingdon Valley,
Pa.; and M. Theodore Van Leer, ’51, of
Glen Ridge, N.J.

Retiring from the Board are Joseph S.
Keelty, ’44, of Baltimore; S L Kopald Jr.,
°43, of Memphis, Tenn.; and Frank G.
Young, ’66, of Fort Worth, Texas.

The changes on the Board will become
effective on Jan. 1, 1989.

Castle is executive vice president of
MONY Financial Services with responsibility
for its corporate sector. He joined MONY
in 1986 as chief legal officer and attained his
present position that same year. He is the
founder and chairman of Sargasso Mutual
Insurance Co., a Bermuda-based underwriter
of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
for major mutual life insurance companies.
Prior to joining MONY Castle served in a
senior legal capacity or as general counsel for
several major corporations and as a senior
partner in Pepper, Hamilton, and Scheetz,
a national law firm.

He is a member of the bars of New York,
Virginia, Washington, D.C., and the U.S.
Supreme Court. He is founder and first
president of the Westchester-Fairfield Cor-
porate Counsel Association and is a member
of the American Corporate Counsel Associa-
tion, the Association of Life Insurance
Counsel, and the International Advisory
Board of the Southwestern Legal Founda-
tion. He is president of the Rescon Cos., a
real estate investment firm. He has also serv-
ed as president of the New Canaan Field
Club and moderator of the New Canaan
Congregational Church.

While a student at Washington and Lee,
Castle was secretary of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, the national leadership fraternity, and
assistant head dormitory counselor. He was
a member of the President’s Advisory Com-
mittee and vice president of the spring
dances. He was chairman of both the Stu-
dent War Memorial Scholarship Fund Com-
mittee and the Assimilation Committee. He
was also a member of Phi Gamma Delta
social fraternity.

For several years he was a W&L class
agent. He has been a member of the Univer-
sity’s Development Council for the past two
years.

A native of Jacksonville, Fla., Lenfest
received his law degree from Columbia

22 W&L

 

Castle Lenfest

University in 1958. He worked for seven
years as an attorney with the firm of Davis
Polk & Wardwell in New York before
becoming associate counsel for Triangle
Publications Inc. He later was named
editorial director and publisher of Seventeen
magazine.

He is currently president of The Lenfest
Group, the nation’s 35th largest cable televi-
sion system with more than 260,000
subscribers and 300 employees. The com-
pany operates cable systems in three Califor-
nia markets and in King of Prussia,
Lebanon, Chester, and Lancaster, Pa.

Earlier this year, Lenfest and his wife,
Marguerite, donated $3 million to
Washington and Lee’s planned center for the
performing arts. The new facility will be
named the Lenfest Center for the Perform-
ing Arts.

During his student years at Washington
and Lee, Lenfest was a member of the soc-
cer team, the Forensic Union, and Sigma Chi
social fraternity.

Van Leer is president of the Van Leer
Chocolate Corp., a national company that
manufactures chocolate and chocolate
coatings from the raw cocoa bean to the
finished product. He is a member and former
president of the Chocolate Manufacturers of
the U.S. and a member of the National Con-
fectioners Association and the Associated
Retail Confectioners of the United States. He
is a director of the Dairy Industry Supply.

He is chairman of the Glen Ridge (N.J.)
Community Services Committee and a
trustee of the Glen Ridge Community Fund.

A native of Mobile, Ala., Van Leer was
a four-year member of the cross country
team and a member of the track team at
Washington and Lee. He was elected to the
Monogram Club in both his junior and
senior years and was a member of the Spik-
ed Shoe Society. He was also a member of
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

The three retiring Trustees were honored
during a dinner held in conjunction with the
Board’s fall meeting.

Keelty was elected to the Board in 1983.
He was a member of the Trustees’ academic
affairs and investment committees. A native
of Baltimore, he attended Washington and

LBS. NET WT

snentnnntines tone tenitin omit,

 

~“s*

 

Van Leer
Lee from 1940 through 1942 and received his
bachelor’s degree in 1943 from Loyola Col-
lege in Baltimore. Ater serving for three years
as an officer in the U.S. Navy, he joined the
family-owned James Keelty & Co. Inc. in
1946. He is currently president of the residen-
tial building and land development firm that
operates in the Baltimore metropolitan area.

Keelty is a former trustee of the
Maryland Institute College of Art and chair-
man of the board of McDonough School. He
has also served as a director of the National
Home Builders and the Home Builders
Association of Maryland.

Kopald joined the Board of Trustees in
1976. He was group vice president of Witco
Corp. in Memphis until his retirement in
1986. He served as chairman of the Ten-
nessee Republican Party from 1971 through
1975 and has been a member and chairman
of the governing board of Hebrew Union
College/Jewish Institute of Religion, which
awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1974.
He also served as director and chairman of
the Memphis branch of the St. Louis Federal
Reserve Board and is a member of the Ten-
nessee State Board of Education.

He received Washington and Lee’s
Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1975 and
served as chairman of the Trustees’ planning
and development committee, which had
primary responsibility for the $26 million
Second Phase development program that was
completed in 1981. He was also a member
of the Board’s executive and nominating
committees.

Young is vice president of Marshall R.
Young Oil Co. in Fort Worth. He was
elected to the W&L Board of Trustees in
1983 and was a member of its academic af-
fairs and planning and development
committees.

Young holds two bachelor’s degrees from
Washington and Lee, a law degree from the
University of Texas, and a master’s degree
in tax law from Southern Methodist Univer-
sity. He was associated with the Fort Worth
law firm of Cantey, Hanger, Gooch, Munn
and Collins from 1970 to 1972 before join-
ing the Marshall R. Young Oil Co. He is a
trustee of the Fort Worth Museum of Science
and History.

$10 million appropriated
for fraternity renaissance

Washington and Lee has embarked on a
$10 million program designed to renovate the
University’s 17 fraternity houses and
strengthen the fraternity system well into the
next century.

The program extends the ‘‘Standards for
Fraternities,’’ which the University adopted
last year, beyond merely the operation of the
chapters to include the physical condition of
the chapter houses.

The Fraternity Renaissance Program was
unanimously approved by the W&L Board
of Trustees at its recent fall meeting in Lex-
ington. Thomas Touchton, ’60, chairman of
the Board’s campus life committee, called the
action ‘‘the most important decision since we
voted to become coeducational’’ in 1984.

Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson, who is on leave for the fall term, had
addressed the issue in a memorandum to the
Trustees before he departed for England’s
Oxford University.

‘‘Fraternities at Washington and Lee
have a larger, more generous place in the
historic life of this institution,’’ he wrote.
‘“‘Over the years, almost every student
belonged to one or another of the houses,
lived there and ate there, made lasting friend-
ships, enjoyed social occasions, and learned
how to get things done in the world. Even
today, a high percentage of male students (80
percent) belong and much of our social life

 

revolves around the houses. They are, on
balance, worth saving, as much for their past
utility and importance as for their promise.”’

At the foundation of the renaissance pro-
gram are the ‘‘Standards for Fraternities,”’
which set forth operating guidelines that
define the privileges and responsibilities of
the fraternity houses. They also specify the
physical standards to be met for the interior
and exterior condition of the houses. The
standards are mandatory and not optional
guidelines. All fraternities must be in full
compliance with the standards to be eligible
to participate in the renaissance program.

Under the program approved by the
Board of Trustees, the University will ad-
vance financing for the renovation of the 17
fraternity houses. The money will be return-
ed to the University over a period of time
through alumni gifts, rental payments, and
Greek system student fees. The financing
program is not mandatory, so any fraterni-
ty wishing to embark on its own renovation

effort is free to do so. But all fraternities,

whether or not they wish to participate in the
University’s financing program, must adhere
to the ‘‘Standards for Fraternities,’’ in-
cluding requirements calling for the physical
renovation of the fraternity houses.

If a fraternity applies for University
housing, the title for the fraternity house
must be deeded to Washington and Lee. In
return, the University will absorb all current
mortgage balances and will manage the
renovations. W&L already owns three frater-

 

Gazette

nity houses and the land on which many of
the houses are situated. The house will then
be leased back to the fraternity’s house
corporation—a group of alumni charged
with overseeing the operation of the house—
with specific requirements for maintenance
and operation.

Other features of the program include:

e The University will provide property
insurance, maintenance, utilities, and
custodial care;

e A portion of the lease/contract be-
tween the house and the University will be
directed to a repair and replacement reserve;

e Noncompliance at any time with the
‘‘Standards for Fraternities’’ will be cause
for termination of the lease/contract;

e A resident manager with specific
responsibilities will be required.

Renovation of the fraternity houses may
begin as early as this summer, although re-
quired architectural planning and essential
clearances with the City of Lexington could
delay modifications until a later period. It
is estimated that four or five houses could
be renovated each summer.

A project supervisor will be hired to
oversee the renaissance program. That super-
visor’s responsibilities will include working
with the renovation steering committee, the
office of the dean of students, the individual
house corporations, and fraternity chapter
officers to supervise the development of in-
dividual house plans as eligible fraternities

apply.

In addition, Evelyn L. Wilson of the
Southern University Law Center joined the
W&L faculty as visiting professor of law.

The new teachers in the University’s
undergraduate divisions are: Elizabeth
Anne Baker, instructor of mathematics;
Paul S. Bourdon, assistant professor of
mathematics; Margaret Lee Brouwer,
assistant professor of music; Benjamin
Daise, visiting professor of philosophy;
Barry H. Kolman, assistant professor of

music; Betty R. Kondayan, professor of
library science; and James R. Leva, part-
time instructor of romance languages.

New members of the Washington and Lee faculty include (front, from left) Judith McMorrow,
Randall P. Bezanson, Tyler S. Lorig, James R. Leva, Elizabeth A. Baker, Betty R. Kondayan;
(back, from left) Barry H. Kolman, Doug Rendleman, Evelyn L. Wilson, Margaret L. Brouwer,

Ann M. Massie, and Paul 8. Bourdon.

New faculty appointed

Nineteen new teachers joined the
Washington and Lee faculty as the new
school year began this fall.

Five of the appointments were in the
School of Law, while 14 were in the two

undergraduate divisions, the College (of

arts and sciences) and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics.

Joining the law faculty were Randall
P. Bezanson, the school’s new dean; Ann
M. Massie and Judith A. McMorrow, both
assistant professors of law; and Doug
Rendleman, Robert E. R. Huntley pro-
fessor of law and director of the Frances
Lewis Law Center. Last fall Rendleman
served as the center’s Scholar in Residence.

Also, Tyler S. Lorig, assistant pro-
fessor of psychology; Joyce C. Mac-
Donald, visiting ABD (All But Disserta-
tion) fellow in English; Demaree C. Peck,
instructor of English; Amanda Weaver
Pierson, part-time instructor of English;
Roberta Howe Senechal, visiting assistant
professor of history; Wade Kenneth
Talley, assistant professor of military
science; and Anne Wortham, assistant pro-
fessor of sociology.

W&L 23

 

 

Gazette

 

A Busy Homecoming

Ceremonies, symposia, panel discussions,
concerts, athletic contests, and numerous
mini-reunions were some of the highlights of
Washington and Lee’s 1988 Homecoming
weekend in October.

A number of special events—including
the dedication of the Frank J. Gilliam Ad-
missions House, a conference for par-
ticipants in the University’s alumni career
assistance program, and special cluster reu-
nions for the classes of 1985, ’86, ’87, and
’°88—made this Homecoming one of the
busiest ever.

At the same time Washington and Lee’s
most recent graduates were reuniting, the
Five-Star Generals—those alumni who
graduated from the University 50 years ago
or more—also came back to the campus for
their annual gathering.

Returning as well were members of the
Alumni Board of Directors, the Law Coun-
cil, and the Alumni Fraternity Council, who
held their regular fall business meetings on
the campus.

Included on the Homecoming schedule
of events was the annual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture, which was delivered by
Stanley E. Fish, arts and sciences distinguish-
ed professor of law at Duke University.
Fish’s topic was ‘‘Force.’’

Women law students had the chance to
meet with some of their predecessors during

 

a symposium titled ‘‘Women in Law—
Perspectives on Success.’’ The symposium,
which was sponsored by the Women Law
Students’ Organization, brought together
current students and female graduates to talk
about such topics as ‘‘Combating the ‘Super-
Woman Syndrome’: Balancing Family and
a Legal Career.”’

Homecoming provided an opportunity
for many alumni to share reminiscences
about Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students at
Washington and Lee from 1931 to 1963, dur-
ing the dedication of the recently restored ad-
missions building that bears his name.
Renovation of the building, which is one of

four antebellum houses located on the W&L
front campus, was made possible by the 25th
reunion gift of the class of 1961.
‘*Buildings, even though they are not per-
manent, give us the impression each day that
if not permanent they at least endure, and
have and will continue to serve us for very,
very long periods of time,’’ said John W.
Elrod, W&L’s vice president for academic
affairs and acting president, during the
dedication ceremony. ‘‘To attach the name
of a human being to such a building is to
symbolize the very same thing. We are say-
ing today by dedicating the Frank J. Gilliam
Admissions House that he is and will be for

 

 

 

a very long time as much a part of us as is
the building that will now bear his name.”’

Also participating in the ceremony were
W. Dan McGrew, ’52, president of the
Alumni Board of Directors; William M.
Hartog, director of admissions at W&L; and
Gilliam’s daughter, Louise Gilliam Hopkins.

In addition to all the other Homecom-
ing activities, alumni also enjoyed receptions,
a concert by the student vocal ensembles, an
outdoor luncheon, and the traditional foot-
ball game, which the Generals narrowly lost
to Hampden-Sydney 22-20. During halftime
W&L sophomore Stacey Patmore was
crowned Homecoming queen.

 

 

Activities during Homecoming weekend were many and varied. Clockwise from lower left corner,
opposite page: Charles Suter, ’33, and Milton Harris, ’34, have their own reunion during a
reception at the Alumni House; Claude Barrick, ’35, shares a program with another member of
the audience during a Saturday morning concert by the vocal ensembles; Five-Star Generals and
their wives gather for a photo session outside Lee Chapel; alumni lacrosse players pose for a pic-
ture before their victory over the varsity squad; Dean Randall P. Bezanson speaks with members
of the Law Council; Stanley E. Fish, arts and sciences distinguished professor of law at Duke
University, delivers the John Randolph Tucker Lecture; Linda Klein, ’83L, speaks to a group of
students during the alumni career symposium; senior Joe Rowe (left) and junior Carter Montague
root for the Generals during the football game with Hampden-Sydney; football team managers
Blair Simmons (left) and Tait North watch from the sidelines; a crowd assembles for the dedica-
tion of the Gilliam Admissions House.

 

W&L 25

 

 

Gazette

 

Jarrard chosen
first Class of ’62 Scholar

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology at Washington and Lee, is spend-
ing the 1988-89 academic year conducting
research at the University of London as
W&L’s first Class of 1962 Fellow.

The Class of 1962 fellowship program
was established by the class during its 25th
reunion celebration to support faculty
members in their research projects and con-
tinuing education. Although Jarrard is cur-
rently the sole participant in the program,
plans call for three faculty members to be
chosen next year.

Jarrard is continuing his longtime
research into the part of the brain called the
hippocampus. He is working with Dr. Jef-
frey Gray, a University of London
psychologist, at the university’s Maudsley
Hospital. He will also travel to Scotland and
France to participate in international profes-
sional meetings.

Wilkinson Scholarship formed

A new scholarship for students majoring
in English at Washington and Lee has been
established in memory of Maxwell P. Wilkin-
son, ’28.

The Maxwell P. Wilkinson Scholarship
in English was created by Mary Vail Wilkin-
son of Stamford, Conn., in memory of her
father, who attended Washington and Lee
from 1924 until 1926. It will be awarded each
year, without consideration of financial
need, to a student chosen by the English
department faculty who ‘‘shows marked pro-
ficiency and interest in writing.”’

A native of Brookhaven, Miss., Wilkin-
son participated in boxing, football, and
baseball at Washington and Lee and was a
member of Phi Kappa Psi social fraternity.
During the 1930s and 1940s he worked as an
editor for Adventure, Good Housekeeping,
Collier’s, and Esquire magazines. He was
also principal editor with the Samuel
Goldwyn Productions motion picture
company.

In 1949 he and another former editor of
Collier’s started a literary agency, whose
clients included Kurt Vonnegut, John D.
MacDonald, Irvin Shaw, Vance Packard,
and Quentisi Reynolds. He continued the
business until his death in 1985.

The first recipient of the Wilkinson
Scholarship is senior John G. Pipkin of
Baltimore, who is majoring in English, Ger-
man, and philosophy. Pipkin has been on the
staffs of WLUR-FM and the Ring-tum Phi
and president of Lambda Chi Alpha social
fraternity.

26 W&L

 

Three join development staff

Washington and Lee’s Office of Develop-
ment recently added three new members to
its staff.

David R. Long is the new director of
planned giving. He succeeds William C.
Washburn, who retired last summer. Long
received his bachelor’s degree from Dickin-
son College and his master’s degree in
Spanish from the University of Missouri at
Columbia. He has worked as special assis-
tant to the chancellor at the North Carolina
School of the Arts and assistant to the presi-
dent at St. Lawrence University.

Rebecca Traylor has been named assis-
tant director of development for research. A
1983 graduate of Mary Baldwin College,
Traylor formerly worked at her alma mater
in the offices of institutional research and
development.

James M. Jordan joined the W&L staff
as assistant director of development with
primary responsibilities in the area of fund
raising for the School of Law. Jordan receiv-
ed degrees from Hampden-Sydney College
and the University of North Carolina School
of Law and has been press secretary to U.S.
Congressman David E. Price of North
Carolina.

Capital Case Clearinghouse
created at School of Law

Last spring Earl Clanton became the
seventh person to die in Virginia’s electric
chair since the U.S. Supreme Court
reinstated the death penalty for capital
murders in 1976.

Clanton, who was convicted of murder
in 1980, appealed the conviction, but he fail-
ed to win a stay of execution when the
Supreme Court refused to hear the case last
year. He was without a lawyer to file any fur-
ther appeals until two months before the
scheduled execution, and that was too late.
He died in April.

Today, capital defendants like Clanton

 

Assembly

Gates Shaw,
class agent for

| the class of
1968, studies
Annual Fund
materials during
a workshop on
the campus.
Fifty-two agents
attended the
workshop,
which was held
Sept. 30 and
Oct. 1.

and their attorneys have a new resource to
which to turn for help. The Virginia Capital
Case Clearinghouse was established at
Washington and Lee’s School of Law last
summer on the principle that ‘‘one who
stands to forfeit his life is entitled to capable
and knowledgeable counsel, both for his sake
and for the sake of those who would take it.”’

The program’s director is criminal law
professor William S. Geimer, who practic-
ed law in North Carolina for 10 years and
tried several murder cases, including three
capital cases. He supervises 11 upperclass law
students, who provide research and resource
assistance to Virginia attorneys and judges
who request those services.

The need for such assistance is clear,
Geimer believes. Virginia ranks relatively low
in the number of capital murder cases and
death sentences in the United States, especial-
ly compared to Texas and Florida. But where
the numbers of capital murder cases are high,
there are usually more resources available for
the defense. Florida, for example, has so
many death-row cases that the state
legislature has allotted funds to help ease the
burden on court-appointed attorneys. No
such funds are available in Virginia.

The VCCC attempts to fill that void by
providing legal research and writing
assistance at all levels of appeal and in col-
lateral proceedings and trial level support,
including assistance in drafting of motions
and proposed jury instructions. The clear-
inghouse also publishes Capital Defense
Digest, which summarizes all federal and
state capital opinions, tracks death penalty
litigation in the state, and presents articles
on the trial of capital cases.

The VCCC is the only organization of its
type in Virginia. ‘“This program will provide
a great service to the commonwealth,”’
Geimer says. ‘‘Death penalty law is complex.
Even good attorneys don’t have the resources
or knowledge to try capital cases. It is also
a tremendous educational experience for the
students.”’

 

CHAOS creates scholarship

In celebration of the 15th anniversary of
its founding, Washington and Lee’s CHAOS
Society has pledged a $25,000 endowment to
establish a scholarship at the University.

The CHAOS Society was founded in
1973 by a broad cross-section of Washington
and Lee students. It is only the second alum-
ni organization in the University’s history to
sponsor a permanently endowed, or named,
project. The other such organization is the
Cadaver Society.

For the past few years, while it has been
building the endowment, CHAOS has fund-
ed the stipend for the scholarship on an an-
nual basis. When the endowment is com-
plete, the scholarship will be permanently
financed.

The members of the CHAOS Society are
John Lane, ’74; Landon Lane, ’72; John
Zamoiski, ’74; A. Barratt Cullen III, ’73;
Eric White, ’74; John Weigle, ’74; Jack
Shuey, ’73; Bill Terry, ’75; Irv Wolfson, ’75;
John Luster, ’74; Herb Rubenstein, ’74;
Alan Fendrich, ’74; and Bruce Gordin, ’74.

Annual fund sets new record

The Washington and Lee Annual Fund
enjoyed its third straight record-breaking
year in 1987-88, with an increase of 8.7 per-
cent in contributions.

The Annual Fund, which consists only of
unrestricted gifts to be used for the Univer-
sity’s current operating budget, jumped from
$1,744,006 to $1,895,784. The total number
of alumni, parents, and friends contributing
to the fund also increased, from 7,018 to
7,129.

‘‘This is one more indication of the in-
creasing enthusiasm for all aspects of the
programs and progress at Washington and
Lee,’’ said James M. Ballengee, ’48L, rec-
tor of the Board of Trustees.

In addition to the increases in overall con-
tributions and donors, the Annual Fund
figures rose in other categories:

e The percentage of alumni contributions
was up 9.43 percent, from $1,614,244 to
$1,766,456;

e The number of alumni donors hit a
record 6,546;

e The amount given by friends of the
University increased by 5.25 percent, from
$27,559 to $29,006;

e The amount from current parents was
a record $62,976;

¢ Contributions by the Lee Associates,
who donate $1,000 or more to W&L, jumped
14.43 percent to $1,074,153;

e The total number of Lee Associates

contributing rose to 561, an increase of 6
percent;

e Gifts from members of the Colonnade
Club, who contribute $100 to $999, increas-
ed to a record $724,551;

e The average gift by undergraduate
alumni was $281, up $18 from last year, and
the average gift by law school alumni was
$215, an increase of $19.

Scholarship honors Dyer

A new scholarship endowment has been
established at Washington and Lee by Robert
C. Dyer, ’35, of Chicago in memory of his
father, William C. Dyer.

The endowment will fund two full-tuition
honor scholarships to be awarded in alter-
nate years to incoming freshmen who possess
outstanding records of academic and ex-
tracurricular achievement and who
demonstrate unusual promise for future ser-
vice and leadership. The recipients, who will
be chosen on a competitive basis, will be
eligible to receive the scholarships for all four
years of college.

A native of St. Louis, William Dyer spent
his life in the printing ink industry and
founded Acme Printing Ink Co. His son,
Robert Dyer, is now chairman of the board
of the firm.

‘‘Washington and Lee is very grateful to
Robert Dyer for establishing these scholar-
ships in memory of his father,’’ said John
W. Elrod, W&L’s vice president for
academic affairs and acting president. ‘‘His
generosity will help us to recognize and en-
courage academic excellence and extracur-
ricular leadership among our students in the
years to come.’’

Zeta Beta Tau closes

When Washington and Lee’s fraternities
geared up for Rush activities this fall, one
house stood quiet and deserted.

 

 

Breaking Ground

Work crews prepare the site for the new
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.
The project is expected to be completed
by April 1990.

Citing concerns about dwindling
membership, the national organization of
Zeta Beta Tau closed down W&L’s Alpha
Epsilon chapter at the end of the 1987-88
academic year and announced plans to
reorganize at a later date.

Membership worries had plagued the
fraternity for several years, according to its
officers. Those concerns became critical last
year, when only two students pledged the
house.

Before the fraternity is permitted to re-
colonize it must meet the ‘‘Standards for
Fraternities’’ that were adopted by the
University last year, according to Leroy C.
Atkins, associate dean of students. Includ-
ed in those guidelines is a requirement call-
ing for a strong and vital house corporation,
which, Atkins says, ZBT does not presently
have.

ja, Support
= for the Arts

John W. Elrod, left,
W&L’s vice president
for academic affairs,
accepts a check from
Robert J. Moore,
director of communi-
ty relations for Philip
Morris USA. The
check represents the
final installment of a
$250,000 gift from
Philip Morris for
W&L’s Lenfest
Center for the Per-

- forming Arts.

W&L 27

 

 

 

Gazette
Boetsch named associate dean

H. Laurent Boetsch, ’69, associate pro-
fessor of romance languages at Washington
and Lee, has been named associate dean of
the College (of arts and sciences), effective
July 1, 1989.

Boetsch will succeed H. Thomas
Williams, who is completing his third year
in the post. Williams will return to full-time
teaching and will assume new duties as chair-
man of the physics department.

PRGA A ER: In announcing the ap-
pointment, John W.
~ Elrod, dean of the Col-

lege and vice president
for academic affairs,
said, ‘‘I am delighted that
' Larry Boetsch is joining
the office of the dean of
the College. As an alum-
; nus and longstanding
ge member of the faculty, he
will bring an experienced perspective to the
affairs of the College. Larry enjoys the high
respect of his colleagues and students and
will serve the College well during his appoint-
ment.’”’

Boetsch joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1976. He received his master’s and
doctorate degrees from Middlebury College,
where he served as assistant director of the
graduate program in Madrid.

   

Variety of events
promote alcohol awareness

‘Drinking: The Great American Sport?”’
was the theme of this year’s Alcohol
Awareness Week, held in October at
Washington and Lee.

The week’s worth of programs and ac-
tivities was designed ‘‘to heighten the
awareness of faculty, students, and staff to
the responsible consumption of alcohol,”’ ac-
cording to Anne Schroer-Lamont, associate
dean of students and chairwoman of W&L’s
Health Education Committee, which spon-
sored the event.

The week began with a national satellite
teleconference that featured a panel of ex-
perts who discussed the problems of alcohol
abuse on campuses across the country.

The programs continued with a
controlled drinking experiment conducted at
the General Headquarters, the University’s
restaurant/pub. Volunteers from the student
body drank beer and were periodically tested
on ‘‘Alco-Sensor’’ equipment to determine
the level of alcohol in their blood systems.

The final event was a public address by
Mike Green, president of Collegiate Con-
sultants on Drugs and Alcohol.

28 W&L

       

a0 fe =<: Soe. UF

 

The inaugural class of former athletes was inducted into Washington and Lee *s Athletic Hall
of Fame in mid-September. Receiving plaques of recognition were, from left, Eddie Cameron
III (who accepted for his father, Eddie Cameron, ’24); Skip Rohnke, *60; Bob Spessard, 739;
Walt Michaels, ’51; and Buck Young and Neely Young Jr. (who accepted for Cy Young, ’17).

Hall of Fame Accepting Nominations

Nominations are already being accepted for the Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame
class of 1989.

The Hall of Fame was established last year by the board of directors of the W&L Alumni
Association and inducted its first members in September. It was created to honor and perpetuate
the memory of those individuals who have made outstanding contributions to W&L athletics
and have helped to bring recognition, honor, distinction, and excellence to the University and
its intercollegiate athletic program.

Next year’s Hall of Fame induction ceremonies will take place at a banquet Sept. 22, and
the new members will be honored the next day at halftime during the Generals’ football game
with Centre College.

Nominations to the Athletic Hall of Fame may be made by any interested party—alumni,
faculty, staff, or friends of the University. To be eligible, a nominee must have participated
in two full seasons of varsity intercollegiate competition at W&L. Nominees are eligible at any
time beginning 10 years after receiving their bachelor’s degree. (Anyone who has not qualified
for a degree may be selected only upon approval of all members of the committee.) Coaches,
trainers, managers, and any other persons who have made outstanding contributions or offered
extraordinary service to athletics at W&L after graduation are eligible.

Once nominated, an individual will be considered for induction by the committee for five
consecutive years after which he or she can be renominated at any time.

To nominate a candidate for the W&L Athletic Hall of Fame, simply complete the form
below and send it to William D. McHenry, Director of Athletics, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

Washington and Lee Athletic Hall of Fame
Nomination Form

Nominee’s Name

 

Nominee’s Address

 

 

Nominee’s W&L Class

 

 

Nominee’s W&L Sports

Submitted by: Name

 

Address

 

 

Clip and return to:
William D. McHenry
Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

Recently heard

The fall was a busy time at Washington
and Lee for visiting speakers and lecturers.
Of special note were the following guests of
the University:

e Sandra Day O’Connor, the first
woman to be named to the United States
Supreme Court, delivered the third Elizabeth
Lewis Otey Lecture in October. O’Connor’s
topic was ‘‘Federalism and _ Individual
Freedom: Remembering the Ratification.”’
The Otey Lecture Series was established in
1987 by E. Otey Watson of Lynchburg in
memory of her mother, a pioneer in the
women’s rights movement. The series is
dedicated to bringing recognized women of
achievement to the W&L campus.

e Helen Vendler, Kenan professor of
English at Harvard University and poetry
reviewer for The New Yorker, gave the an-
nual Shannon-Clark Lecture in English this
fall. Her talk was titled ‘‘Models of Life in
Shakespeare’s Sonnets.’’ The Shannon-Clark
lectureship honors the memories of Harriet
Mabel Fishburn Clark and Edgar Finley
Shannon, chairman of the W&L English
department from 1914 to 1938.

e The featured speaker at Washington
and Lee’s opening convocation in September
was Alan J. Pifer, retired president of the
Carnegie Corp. Pifer spoke about ‘‘The Best
of Times, The Worst of Times’’ during the
Lee Chapel gathering, which honored the
senior class.

e Contact, Washington and Lee’s
speakers forum, sponsored several visiting
lecturers during the fall. They included
former Virginia Gov. Charles S. Robb, who
was campaigning for the U.S. Senate, and
Russell Kirk, author of The Conservative
Mind.

Sororities to colonize

Beginning in January 1989 Washington
and Lee will permit national sororities to
establish chapters on the campus.

The decision to proceed with sorority col-
onization was made by the Sorority Advisory
Committee, a group of students, faculty
members, and administrators who studied
sororities and other social alternatives for
women at Washington and Lee.

‘‘We responded positively to some
women’s requests for these social organiza-
tions,’’ said Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins, ’68,
associate dean of students for Greek affairs.
‘‘There was a group of women on campus
who definitely wanted sororities. We also will
continue to address the concerns of all
women students for alternative organiza-
tions.”’

The possible creation of sororities has

been discussed at W&L since women were
first enrolled as undergraduates in the fall
of 1985. Atkins said the committee believed
that sororities should not be established un-
til four classes of undergraduate women were
in attendance at the University and at least
100 women had declared their interest in
sororities.

In October an opinion survey on
sororities was distributed to the 505
undergraduate women at Washington and
Lee. Of the 219 surveys that were returned,
116 women said they favored sorority col-
onization; 95 said they opposed sororities.
Atkins said the number of women wanting
sororities at W&L was large enough to war-
rant their establishment.

Eighteen national sororities have express-
ed an interest in establishing chapters at
Washington and Lee. Atkins said six to eight
of those will be invited to make presentations
to the students, and of those three or four
will actually begin chapters at W&L.

The national sororities will make their
presentations the first week of January. The
selection of sororities that will be allowed on
campus will be made shortly after that.
Atkins expected the first women to be
initiated into sororities in May.

Since Washington and Lee has no sorori-
ty houses, the women will meet initially in
available space on campus. No decision has
yet been made about sorority houses, Atkins
said, adding that the University is commit-
ted to supporting sororities as much as it does
fraternities.

Follo directs Outing Club

M. Kirkland Follo, ’67, instructor in Ger-
man at W&L since 1981, has been appointed
to direct the W&L Outing Club.

He will also continue to teach one class
in intermediate German each term and serve
as an adviser to students wishing to study
abroad.

Although Washington and Lee has spon-
sored outing programs for a number of
years, a recent rise in student interest
prompted the expansion of those activities.
During the fall Follo organized whitewater
rafting trips to West Virginia and hiking ex-
cursions to House Mountain and the Blue
Ridge. Future events will include canoeing,
camping, cycling, rock climbing, and
kayaking.

After graduating from W&L, Follo
studied at the University of Heidelberg in
Germany under the auspices of a Rotary In-
ternational Fellowship. He received his
master’s degree in 1976 from Northwestern
University, where he taught for five years
and was named to the Honor Roll of
Outstanding Teachers.

 

 

A Rainy Welcome

Mothers and fathers trudge through the rain
on their way to Lee Chapel to hear an address
by acting president John W. Elrod during
Parents’ Weekend. Approximately 1,700 fami-
ly members came to Lexington for the
weekend for one of the largest turnouts ever.

Entering students
bring diversity to campus

Washington and Lee opened its doors in
August and September to 413 freshmen and
122 first-class law students.

The freshman class included 23 National
Merit finalists and 24 students who finished
first or second in their high school graduating
class. Seventy of the freshmen served as stu-
dent body or class president or vice president,
121 were varsity team captains, and 36 were
editors of a school newspaper, yearbook, or
literary magazine.

The new students come from 39 states
and four foreign countries and represent 326
secondary schools.

Members of the law class of 1991 range
in age from 21 to 56 and represent 28 states
and 84 different undergraduate institutions.
Women make up 32 percent of the class.

As in years past, political science and
government were the most popular
undergraduate majors of the class, but many
other fields were also represented. Several of
the first-year students hold graduate degrees
in such areas as accounting, business, educa-
tion, fine arts, music, counseling, and
medicine.

Most members of the class of 1991 spent
time between their undergraduate education
and law school pursuing a variety of careers,
including salmon-fishing, sheep-shearing, ski
instructing, news broadcasting, painting, and
counseling Vietnam veterans.

W&L 29

Gazette

Ziegler plays premiere

Two new plays by Thomas J. Ziegler,
associate professor of drama at Washington
and Lee, will premiere early next year.

*S Mall Talk will open Jan. 18 at the
Chocolate Bayou Theatre in Houston.
Ziegler wrote the play, which deals with the
subject of child abuse, after observing the
work of family therapists in Roanoke, Va.

“*I was intrigued by the idea, growing
among family therapists, that abused
children are more than merely the victims of
some maniacal parent,’’ he says. ‘‘They are
often willing participants in their own tor-
ture.”’

The play’s protagonist is a 7-year-old vic-
tim of child abuse who has been made to feel
responsible for her parents’ separation. As
a result, she believes the torment she is suf-
fering is not only deserved, but, if she is quiet
and submissive, it will somehow bring her
parents back together.

‘*Although the play deals with a deeply
serious subject, it contains some of the best
comedy I’ve ever written,’’ Ziegler says. ‘‘I
create characters who deal with their pro-
blems by mixing a great deal of laughter in-
to the pain.”’

Home Games, Ziegler’s other work, was
chosen from more than 700 new plays as the
final selection for the 1988-89 season of the
American State Company in Teaneck, N.J.
The play will open at that theatre on Jan.
27. A lighthearted comedy that also deals
with a family theme, Home Games involves
Tony Tucker, a former fourth-string catcher
for the New York Yankees, and his daughter,
Mertyl Mae.

Mental aberrations brought about by an
accident cause Tony to continue to relive a
momentous 1955 World Series game that
took place more than 30 years ago. Mertyl
has resigned herself to taking care of her old,
deranged father, until a young man falls in
love with her and tries to convince her that
she is wasting her life. Home Games will be
directed by Roderick Cook, whose own play,
O Coward, was recently revived on
Broadway.

Ziegler joined the W&L faculty in 1976.

Long-range plan formulated

Washington and Lee has undertaken a
long-range planning process to determine the
course of the University during the next
decade.

Faculty, administrators, and a number of
students are engaged in the planning process,
which is examining nine different areas of
Washington and Lee’s life: the academic pro-
gram, administrative services, campus life
and student services, faculty, the freshman

30 =W&L

year, institutional effectiveness, physical
plant, and the student body.

According to the plan’s timetable, all
committee work will be completed by the end
of March, with the first draft of a report to
be submitted to President John D. Wilson
and the Board of Trustees in late May. Dur-
ing the latter half of 1989, the document will
be revised and refined, with the help of sug-
gestions and comment from alumni around
the country. The final plan will be approv-
ed by the Board of Trustees in early 1990 and
will provide the foundation for the Univer-
sity’s next capital campaign. It will also serve
as Washington and Lee’s self-study, which
is required every decade for reaccreditation
by the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools.

*“*The faculty has worked extremely hard
this fall on long-range planning, and
preliminary reports that I have seen indicate
that the institutional long-range plan will be
very ambitious and of the highest quality,’’
said W&L’s acting president John W. Elrod.

Committee appointed
to handle ‘‘sensitive’’ complaints

A controversial new committee has been
appointed at Washington and Lee to deal
with allegations of racial and sexual harass-
ment and slurs.

The Confidential Review Committee was
created by the faculty last spring after an ad
hoc committee had concluded that there was
no adequate forum for airing complaints of
a particularly sensitive nature.

Under guidelines established by the facul-
ty in 1985, sexual assault and the ‘‘use of
racial, ethnic, religious, or sexual slurs’’ were
to be regarded as ‘‘major offenses’’ and
would be handled by the Student Conduct

The General’s New Quarters

Committee, which is composed of 13 student
members. Members of the University com-
munity, however, have recently voiced con-
cerns that students were unwilling to take
their complaints before the SCC.

During the 1987-88 academic year, for in-
stance, the SCC heard only two cases of sex-
ual harassment. On the other hand, Anece
F. McCloud, associate dean of students for
minority and international affairs, heard 14
such cases.

Samuel J. Kozak, professor of geology
at W&L and chairman of both the CRC and
the ad hoc review committee that proposed
the CRC’s creation, said, ‘‘The review com-
mittee decided there was something lacking
in the way sexual, racial, and religious slurs
have been handled.

“We would like to see the CRC become
a vehicle for the resolution of sensitive issues
that require confidentiality, that will en-
courage people to come forward so that their
problems can be recognized.”’

The CRC is composed of four faculty
members and three students. The members,
who were appointed by President John D.
Wilson, are Kozak; Steven H. Hobbs, pro-
fessor of law; Ann T. Rogers, instructor of
Japanese; Barbara J. Brown, University
librarian; third-year law student Kathryn Kir-
mayer; senior Amy Smith; and sophomore
James Rambo.

As its name suggests, the Confidential
Review Committee is charged with keeping
all proceedings in the strictest confidence.
The SCC is bound by no such regulation.

The formation of the CRC was met by
stiff opposition by some students, who
charged that it usurps the authority of a self-
governing student body. The faculty has
voted to reevaluate the operation of the CRC
in early 1990.

 

Students and faculty alike enjoy the brighter atmosphere in the newly renovated General Head-
quarters (formerly the Cockpit), located in the lower level of the University Center. Extensive
remodeling last summer enlarged the GHQ’s kitchen facilities, making possible a greatly expand-

ed lunch and dinner menu.

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee has established two
innovative programs to attract minority
faculty members to the University.

The ‘‘All But Dissertation’’ program is
designed for members of minorities who
have completed all the requirements of the
doctorate except the dissertation. Under the
program’s guidelines, ABD fellows teach one
class each semester, but their primary goal
is to finish the dissertation. Toward that end,
they are given access to a faculty office and
locked library carrel.

The University’s first ABD fellow, Joyce
G. MacDonald, is serving this year as an
assistant professor of English. A graduate of
Dartmouth College and a doctoral candidate
at Vanderbilt University, she is completing

a dissertation on the role of the family in
Shakespeare’s plays.

While the ABD program is intended for
doctoral students, participants in the visiting
minority faculty program are full-time
teachers who take leaves of absence from
their home institutions to spend some part
of an academic year teaching at Washington
and Lee.

Benjamin Daise, an associate professor
of philosophy at Hobart and William Smith
Colleges, will inaugurate this particular pro-
gram when he joins the W&L faculty in the
winter. A native of South Carolina, Daise
was educated at Morehouse College, Haver-
ford College, and the University of Texas at
Austin. He joined the faculty at Hobart and
William Smith in 1970.

‘‘We hope to have minority faculty
members on the campus each year through

Fancy Dress set for March 3

 

Plans are already underway for the 82nd annual Fancy Dress Ball, which will be
held Friday, March 3, at 9 p.m. in Washington and Lee’s Warner Center.

The Fancy Dress weekend will actually begin a day earlier, on Thursday, March
2, with a concert and dance at the Student Activities Pavilion. The activities will also
include a reception honoring alumni on Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Alumni House.

To encourage alumni attendance at the ball, the Student Activities Board has made
arrangements to reserve rooms at area motels. Alumni may call one of the motels
listed below and ask to reserve a ‘‘Fancy Dress Block Room.’’ These rooms will be
released two weeks prior to the ball, so reservations should be made as soon as possi-

ble to ensure accommodations.

Tickets for the ball itself are $40 per couple and can be obtained from the Stu-
dent Activities Board, University Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,

VA 24450.

For additional information, contact Elizabeth Smith, Fancy Dress Chairwoman,

Student Activities Board, (703) 463-8585.

Lodging
Ramada Inn (703) 463-6666
Howard Johnson 463-9181
Days Inn 463-9131
Holiday Inn 463-7351
Comfort Inn 463-7311
Keydet-General 463-2143

Gazette

the auspices of these programs,’’ says John
W. Elrod, vice president for academic af-
fairs. ‘‘We see this as a splendid opportuni-
ty to enhance our academic programs and
increase the diversity of the campus com-
munity.”’

For the first time, Washington and Lee
received a ‘‘most competitive’? ranking in
Barron’s Profiles of American Colleges, a
biannual publication that ranks colleges and
universities in the United States.

W&L was one of only two institutions of
higher learning in Virginia to receive the
designation. The College of William and
Mary was also listed as ‘‘most competitive.”’

The seven categories used by Barron’s
range from ‘‘most competitive’’ to ‘‘non-
competitive’ and ‘‘special.’’ In both 1984
and 1986, Washington and Lee was rated
‘*highly competitive.”’

‘*Barron’s is one of the few college rating
publications that includes decisions by rank
and grade-point average as part of the
evaluation,’’ said William M. Hartog,
W&L’s director of admissions. ‘‘Other
publications often rely exclusively on SATs
and the percentage of applicant pool admit-
ted, and therefore frequently list schools
which place a greater emphasis on scores
and/or attract an applicant pool of modest
credentials.

‘‘We are pleased that the volume and
strength of Washington and Lee’s applicant
pool allows us to base our admissions deci-
sion on a combination of demonstrated
academic performance in a solid college
preparatory curriculum and standardized test
results, and not just academic potential as
reflected by standardized tests alone,’’ Har-
tog said.

The factors used in the Barron’s evalua-
tion include: median entrance examination
scores for the 1987-88 freshman class;
percentages of the freshmen who scored
above 500 and above 600 on both the
mathematical and verbal sections of the SAT
and above 21 and above 25 on the ACT;
percentage of the freshmen who ranked in
the upper fifth and upper two-fifths of their
high school class; minimum class rank and
grade-point average required for admission;
and percentage of applicants who were
accepted.

Thirty-six schools were listed in the
‘‘most competitive’’ category. They includ-
ed Harvard, Yale, Amherst, Swarthmore,
Princeton, Duke, Georgetown, and
Haverford.

W&L 31

 

. . ..he 417 freshmen who entered the University this
fall were drawn from an applicant pool of 3,300
students. Clearly, we are becoming increasingly selective
in admissions, which means the student body is of a far
higher quality than it has been in quite some time. For
instance, the average freshman midterm grade-point
average is higher this fall than it has ever been in the
last 15 years—2.66. And only 15 freshmen this term
have fallen below a 1.5 GPA. That’s down from a high
in 1984 of 79.

The increased quality of our student body does have
its drawbacks, however. We now have 108 more
students on campus than we would really like to have.
In terms of our resources, number of faculty, residence
halls, and extracurricular activities, we are prepared for
1,500 students, and we can’t do as well with 1,608.

There are two main reasons for the growth of the
student body. Last fall we wanted to enroll 420
freshmen and missed the mark by 11, enrolling 431.
This fall we intended to enroll 400 students and again
missed the mark by 17 students, so we have 417
freshmen.

The other reason is our remarkable retention rate.

We are now losing only 3.5 percent of the freshmen as
they move to the sophomore class and 1.7 percent of the
sophomores as they move to the junior class, and we
gain a percent as the juniors move to the senior year.

But we believe if we can be very accurate in the
number of freshmen that we admit in the next few years
and keep it at 400, and if the retention rates stay where
they are, we will work our way back down over the next
few years to 1,500 students.

. . .rhe major activity this University is engaged in
this year is planning for the future. We have targeted
nine areas in the University’s life to plan for relative to
the next 10 to 12 years of the University’s life. Our goal
is to define what we want to happen to Washington and
Lee University out through the end of the century. At
the end of May we will have a long-range plan for the
University, which will become the basis of our next
capital campaign and serve as our required self-study for
reaccreditation in 1990.

. . .We all know there has been a devolution in
fraternity life across this land in the last two decades—a
serious degeneration in the quality of the property, in
the maintenance and upkeep of fraternity houses, and in
the culture of fraternity life on every university campus
in this country.

As far as I can tell there are three options open to
all universities. First, they may try legally to distance

 

 

32. W&L

The State of the University

Excerpts from Dean John W. Elrod’s Remarks to Parents

themselves from fraternities and symbolically push them
off campus. The second strategy is for colleges and
universities, through direct and indirect means, to
abolish fraternities. The third is for universities to say,
*‘The fraternity system needs help, and we’re going to
do what we can to improve it and to return fraternities
to what they once were on a number of campuses across
this land.’’

Washington and Lee has decided to adopt the third
alternative. That’s the idea behind the fraternity
renaissance program, whereby the University will ap-
propriate $10 million during the next several years to
renovate the 17 fraternity houses.

A decision has also been made recently to bring
sororities to the campus. A sorority advisory council will
implement this plan during the next few months, and at
the same time the office of the dean of students will in-
tensify its efforts to develop social options for women
who choose not to affiliate with sororities.

With regard to academics, there are four new pro-
grams that I think are worth mentioning. First, we have
just inaugurated a Russian area studies program, which
will be interdisciplinary in nature and encompass Rus-
sian politics, history, culture, literature, and language.
We have also added a major in music to our cur-
riculum. Students who choose this major will be able to
specialize in composition or in performance.

The final two developments have to do with the area
of science. According to the National Science Founda-
tion, the most important field of biology in the next 10
years will be molecular biology. In response to this pro-
jection, Washington and Lee will add a molecular
biologist to its faculty next year. The NSF has also call-
ed attention to the alarming decline in the number of
students who are entering colleges and universities in the
United States to study science. If this trend is not
reversed, the NSF says, by the year 2000 we will have a
shortage of 750,000 scientists, engineers, and mathemati-
cians. We are trying to buck that trend here at
Washington and Lee, and we have been aided by a
grant of $250,000 from the Pew Foundation and the du-
Pont Foundation for science equipment.

One final note: Washington and Lee is an institution
that is undergoing substantial change. Yet we are com-
mitted to making sure that Washington and Lee remains
the institution that it has been for such a long period of
time, that it remain true to itself. W&L has a proud
history, and we will see to it that it continues in a direc-
tion that is consistent with the direction it has been
traveling for more than 200 years.

 

Gazette

 

By Land, By Sea
By H. William Hoffman, ’53
(Louisiana State University Press)

Virginia writer William Hoffman is the
author of nine novels, including The Land
That Drank the Rain and Godfires. His first
collection of short stories, Virginia Reels,
was published in 1978.

In this second anthology, Hoffman
returns to a favorite topic—Southside
Virginia, where he lives. He writes about a
variety of people and problems: a father who
resents the suitors of his teenage daughter;
a widower who is being chased by a persis-
tent divorcee; the middle-aged man obsessed
with a younger woman.

A review in the Roanoke Times & World-
News said of By Land, By Sea, ‘‘These are
stories, often, of disappointment and self-
distrust, and they turn on the little self-
delusions of which all of us are guilty—or
all of us who are members of Hoffman’s
generation (he is 63); yuppies may not share
such shortcomings.”’

Neutral Europe Between War and

Revolution
Edited by Hans A. Schmitt, ’40
(University Press of Virginia)

The end of World War I was marked not
only by a peace conference, but with the
overthrow of the defeated governments. The
Russian czar lost power; the Austrian and
Turkish empires disintegrated; Czar Ferdi-
nand of Bulgaria abdicated his throne; and
Germany was suddenly transformed into a
democratic republic. In the meantime, vic-
tory upheld the status quo in Great Britain,
France, Italy, and the United States.

But how did the war affect the neutral
countries of Spain, Switzerland, the Low
Countries, and Scandinavia? Were they
spared the political tensions that prevailed
in the warring societies? In Neutral Europe
Between War and Revolution, eight experts
on the history of these countries study such
questions. They reveal that blockades, food
shortages, and national policy disagreements
led most of these countries to the brink of
revolution, and major reform was usually
necessary to preserve stability.

Hans Schmitt is professor of history at
the University of Virginia. His previous
works include The Path to European Union:
From the Marshall Plan to the Common
Market, European Union from Hitler to
DeGaulle, and Historians of Modern
Europe.

The Bookshelf

 

Franklin D. Roosevelt’s
Rhetorical Presidency

By Halford R. Ryan

Professor of Public Speaking

(Greenwood Press)

By focusing on his presidential rhetoric,
this volume makes a unique contribution to
the literature on Franklin D. Roosevelt. It
shows how he tried to persuade the public
and the Congress, what rhetorical techniques
he used, how he attempted to manage the
reception of his messages through the press
and the media, and what the effect was of
his rhetorical endeavors.

Ryan’s book examines his leading ora-
tions on national and international issues, his
persuasive campaign strategies and tactics,
his four inaugural addresses, and his unsuc-
cessful speeches against the Supreme Court
and in the ‘‘Purge.”’ It further demonstrates
how contemporary Americans responded to
and received Roosevelt’s rhetoric.

Ryan conducted research for the book in
the FDR Library with help from an Eleanor
Roosevelt Grant and a W&L Glenn Grant.
He also developed a chapter during his par-
ticipation in a summer seminar sponsored by
the National Endowment ffor the
Humanities.

Ryan joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1970. This is his sixth book.

The Regulation of Public Utilities:
Theory and Practice

By Charles F. Phillips Jr.

Robert G. Brown Professor of Economics

(Public Utilities Reports Inc.)

The first edition of The Regulation of
Public Utilities was published in 1984 and

served as a preferred guide to public utilities
in the American economy, both as a class-
room textbook and as a reference work for
utility executives and regulators.

In the second edition, Phillips reviews
and analyzes the development of economic
regulation, emphasizing recent and future
issues confronting the public utility sector.
The text also contains an updated index of
all the significant commission rulings and
court decisions regarding public utilities.

Phillips has served as a consultant to
many regulated businesses and has testified
as an expert witness before federal agencies
and regulatory commissions. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1959.

 

Introduction to the Structure of the Earth
By Edgar W. Spencer, ’53

Ruth Parmly Professor of Geology
(McGraw-Hill)

In this third revision of his geology text-
book, Spencer presents a broad, up-to-date
review of the principles of structural geology
and tectonics (geological structural features
as a whole). The new edition places a greater
emphasis on fundamental principles and fur-
ther integrates these principles with tectonics.

The text has been extensively rewritten to
be more accessible and clearer to students
and contains new illustrations that reflect re-
cent advances in structural geology.

Introduction to the Structure of the Earth
was first published in 1969 and revised in
1977.

Spencer received his doctorate in major-
structural geology from Columbia Univer-
sity in 1957. He joined the W&L faculty that
same year.

W&L 33

Gazette

 

Washington and Lee’s alumni chapter
events of recent months were characterized
above all by diversity. Whether they were
playing softball, discussing the impending
election, or hearkening to the strains of Liszt,
alumni coast to coast were assembling
throughout the summer and fall months for
a variety of meetings and programs.

The Upper Potomac chapter got together
in late August for a dinner to recognize Mrs.
Paul D. Pickens, who made a substantial gift
to Washington and Lee in honor of her late
husband, Paul D. Pickens, ’17, and in honor
of the chapter itself. The gift will be used for
the orchestra pit in the new Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts. Also in attendance
at the dinner was Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58,
W&L’s vice president for university relations
and development, who showed slides of the
theatre plans.

Numerous chapters throughout the coun-
try held receptions for incoming freshmen
and first-year law students in late summer.
Among those hosting such functions were the
Pittsburgh, Peninsula, Chattanooga, San
Diego, San Francisco Bay, Winston-Salem,

34.  W&L

 

ROANOKE—Roanoke alumnae and current female students meet to discuss current campus
issues during a luncheon in October. Those attending were, from left: (seated) Dale Burrus, ’87L;
Linda Frith, *82L; MaryEllen Goodlatte, ’78L; Angelica Lloyd, ’75L; Vickie Huffman, ’85L;

Mary Poletti, °87L; Melissa Halstead-White, ’*89L; (standing) Julie Gregory Rudd, ’86L; Jackie
Talevi, *83L; Barbara Taylor, ’86L; Karin Garvin, ’*89L; Jenny Bray, ’89; and Esther Huffman,
89.

 

UPPER POTOMAC—lIn attendance at a dinner in honor of Mrs. Paul D. Pickens were (from

 

left) Albert D. Darby Jr., ’43; Mrs. Thomas N. Berry; Mrs. Darby; Mrs. Pickens; Donald W.
Mason, ’51L; Mrs. Mason; Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58; and the Rev. Edward C. Chapman, ’70,

chapter president.

Long Island, Cumberland Valley,
Washington, D.C., Florida West Coast,
Southern Ohio, Mid-South, South Carolina
Piedmont, Northwest Louisiana, Atlanta,
Philadelphia, Pensacola, Mobile, Mont-
gomery, and Westchester-Fairfield.

Many ‘‘ambassadors’’ from the W&L
campus were on the road recently visiting
chapters in every region of the country.
President John D. Wilson, Lex O. McMillan,
*72, director of development, and James D.
Farrar Jr., ’74, associate alumni secretary,
attended dinners sponsored by the Orange

County, Los Angeles, and San Francisco Bay
chapters in June.

Rob Vienneau, ’87, ’90L, presented a
salon piano concert to members of the New
York chapter at The Americas Society in
October.

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the W&L
School of Law, spoke to the Richmond
chapter about his plans for the School’s
future. Meanwhile, Milton Colvin, professor
of politics and adviser to the Mock Conven-
tion, was the guest speaker at an ‘‘Election
°88—WA&L Style’’ gathering in Tampa.

Gazette

 

 

Butler, ’89; and John McDonald, ’88.

%

TULSA —Attending a reception hosted by Da

MOBILE—Enjoying the atmosphere at a reception for incoming
Sreshmen and returning students are Luckett Robinson, ’89; Warren

  

ek
es <

ve Eakin, ’61, and Jane

   

5

 

ORANGE COUNTY—Participating in the Orange County chap
dinner meeting are Lex McMillan, ’72, director of development; K. C.

     

ter’s

Redmond; and Lee Redmond, ’74.

 

akin (left) are Martha Cordell and chapter president David Cordell,

*82.

Proving that there is life after W&L, the
Minnesota chapter held a ‘‘resurrection
meeting’’ in September with guest Timothy
G. McMahon, ’87, an admissions counselor
at the University.

Alumni secretary Richard B. Sessoms
had a busy schedule, visiting the Oklahoma
City, Tulsa, Baltimore, Mid-South, Central
Mississippi, and Chattanooga chapters. |

Washington and Lee alumni found plenty
of opportunities to get together with
graduates of other schools during recent
months. The Jacksonville, Detroit,

Baltimore, Tidewater, San Antonio,
Philadelphia, and Gulf Stream chapters par-
ticipated in a variety of ‘‘Old Dominion’’ ac-
tivities with other Virginia alumni. The
Southern Ohio and Palmetto chapters took
on their University of Virginia counterparts
in softball, while the New Orleans chapter
played in a tournament with alumni from
Sewanee, Harvard, and Vanderbilt. The
Lynchburg chapter took a group excursion
with Virginia Military Institute graduates to
see a play at Lexington’s Lime Kiln Arts
Theatre.

     

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Sporting their ‘‘old school ties’’ are Grey
Flowers, ’43; Bob Cooper, ’35L; and Sherwood Wise, °32, ’34L.

.
SS he

Barbecue was the entree at recent gather-
ings of both the New Orleans and Atlanta
chapters. Meanwhile, the Connecticut River
Valley and Westchester-Fairfield County
chapters converged for a cruise down the
Connecticut River. Members of the San
Diego chapter continued a tradition with
their seventh annual ‘‘Sunset Happy Hour’”’
at La Jolla Shores, while the Eastern Ken-
tucky, Louisville, and Southern Ohio
chapters united for a reception and dinner
following the Generals’ 30-16 football loss
to Centre.

W&L 35

Gazette

 

 

aS

EASTERN KENTUCK Y—Preparing to cheer for the Generals in a LONG ISLAND—Gathering for a reorganizational meeting in mid-
football game with Centre are Paul Pack; Mike Pack, ’90; Russell summer are Paul Marasciullo, ’*85; Ken Van de Water, ’41; Chris
Crosby, ’90; Marianne Crosby; and Ellis Crosby, ’54. Komosa, ’86; Steve Losquadro, ’86; and Bob Calabretta, ’87.

 

BALTIMORE—Annual Fund chairman Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, CHATTANOOGA ter meeting are, from
harmonizes with members of JubiLee, Washington and Lee’s new left: (seated) Huxley Brown, ’76; Joanie Crumbliss; Ed Brown, ’40,

women’s choral group, during the students’ visit to Baltimore. °42L; (standing) Allen Brown, ’72; Ralph Brown, ’66, ’71L; chapter
president Clay Crumbliss, ’*80; Andrea Couch; Clay Couch, ’78; Tim
Manson, ’79; and Esther Brown.

New Chapter Presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:

Eastern Kentucky—Sam L. Perkins, ’80,
°83L;

Jacksonville—B. Lamar Winegeart III, ’73;

Kansas City—Walter R. Randall Jr., ’82;

Minnesota—David R. Braun, ’76;

Oregon—Sean Gilronen, ’74L;

WINSTON-SALEM—Freddy Moore, ’80, Thorns Craven, ’62, and South Carolina Piedmont—Bradford N.

 

Reg Garner, ’74, assemble for an August cookout honoring incoming Martin, ’74, ’77L;
freshmen. Tidewater—S. Lawrence Dumville, ’75.

36 | W&L

 

— sh,

 

The Generals’ R

eport

 

ashington and Lee’s 1988 foot-

ball season began in the warm

sunshine of late summer and
ended in the dismal, bone-chilling rain of late
fall. But while the weather may have chang-
ed from pleasant to dreary in 10 short weeks,
the Generals’ football fortunes went in just
the opposite direction.

W&L, which had struggled through los-
ing seasons in both 1986 and 1987, started
the 1988 season with two rough losses. But
the Generals managed to turn themselves
around and win five of their final seven
games to finish at 5-3-1.

‘*T am just so delighted that these guys
got the opportunity to end the season on a
high note,’’ said head coach Gary Fallon
after the Generals’ season-ending 17-13 win
over Washington University in St. Louis. ‘‘I
would like to thank the 11 seniors for their
leadership and commitment. I think they put
some juice back into W&L football.

‘‘We got better each week this year, and
I am very proud of this group of young
men.”’

Indeed, the Generals seemed to make
great strides each Saturday. After losing to
eventual Old Dominion Athletic Conference
champion Emory and Henry and regionally
ranked Centre by a combined score of 71-28,
W&L began a transformation that was
nothing short of remarkable.

The Generals allowed just 61 points in
their final seven outings (fewer than 9 a
game), while scoring nearly twice that many.
The defense, led by senior tri-captains Tom
Skeen and Jim Johnson, recorded two
shutouts along the way and allowed more
than a touchdown in only two of the final
seven contests. Skeen finished as the team’s
leading tackler, averaging more than 12 stops
a game, while Johnson led the team in sacks
with eight.

After tying Randolph-Macon 10-10 in
Week 3, the Generals went to Maryville and
got their first win of the year, a 20-0 shutout
that gave W&L football fans a look at the
future. Sophomores Mason Pope and Carter
Quayle paced the win. Pope rushed 30 times
for 163 yards and a touchdown against the
Scots and was named ODAC and Football
Gazette Player of the Week, while Quayle,

by Mike Stachura,

"86

 

Gary Fallon, ODAC
Coach of the Year,
counsels his players
(above), while senior
halfback Tony Waskiewicz
rushes against Hampden-
Sydney (left).

W&L

 

37

 

 

who set a school record by kicking 10 field
goals this season, booted two key
three-pointers.

W&L lost a nailbiter the following week
to archrival Hampden-Sydney, a game that
save for a few plays belonged to the
Generals. But that close loss may have spur-
red the Generals to their strong finish.

W&L closed out the season with four
straight wins, equalling the second-longest
winning streak for a Generals’ football team
in the last 26 years. The highlight of the
streak, which included victories over
Sewanee, Bridgewater, Ursinus, and
Washington, was a thrilling, come-from-
behind victory over ODAC foe Bridgewater.
Junior quarterback Phillip Sampson hit
sophomore Craig Irons with a touchdown
pass in the final minute to secure the 14-10
victory over the Eagles.

By season’s end, W&L had established
itself as one of the better teams in the con-
ference, and the Generals finished the year
with the second-best overall record of any
ODAC team. As a result, there were plenty
of individual honors to go around.

Johnson and Skeen, W&L’s defensive
leaders, were both named to the All-ODAC
first team, as was kicker Quayle. Senior of-
fensive linemen David Surface and Julian
Phillips (the Generals’ other tri-captain),
junior tight end Bob Martin, sophomore
wide receiver Irons, and junior defensive
backs Bobby Rimmer and Bland Warren
were named to the All-ODAC second team,
as was Skeen at punter.

Fallon himself was named the ODAC
Coach of the Year by a vote of his peers.

*“*This was a great group of young men
to coach,’’ Fallon said after his 11th season

38 =9$W&L

 

 

at W&L had come to a close. ‘‘All year long,
these kids just never said quit. They came
together and gave you exactly what you want
from a team. This year was probably the
most fun I’ve ever had in coaching.’’

Volleyball

In just its first year as a varsity sport,
W&L gave notice that it has a bright future
in volleyball. The Generals, who battled in-
juries throughout the season, finished their
first season with a 15-9 record and a fifth-
place finish, the best record ever for a first-
year women’s sport at W&L.

The Generals took no time at all in
establishing themselves as a formidable op-
ponent in the ODAC, disposing of a trio of
conference schools and winning the very first
tournament they entered.

The season ended on a discouraging note
at the conference tournament where senior
co-captain Melissa Thrasher went down with
an injury, only to be followed by another in-
jury to freshman starter Marcy Brown.

Senior co-captain Vanessa Hartman was
named to the All-ODAC first team, a fitting
end to a fine first year.

“*It was a great season,’’ said head coach
Susan Dittman. ‘‘Things kind of fell apart
at the tournament, and that was disappoint-
ing, but I am very pleased with what we ac-
complished this year.’’

Women’s Soccer

In only its second year as a varsity sport,
W&L’s women’s soccer team posted a 7-9
record and finished fourth in the ODAC

Freshman Ashley Gray (far left) and senior
Johnny Sarber led their respective soccer teams
this fall.

regular season. Head coach Janine Hathorn,
who led the Generals to three times as many
wins as they had in 1987, received ODAC
Coach of the Year honors. Freshman
fullback Nancy Mitchell was named to the
All-ODAC first team, while junior fullback
Sarah Allen, junior forward Catherine
Baillio, and freshman forward Ashley Gray
were named to the All-ODAC second team.

“It was an awesome season,’’ Hathorn
said. ‘‘I think we’ve come a long way this
year.”’

Men’s Soccer

In spite of inconsistent play and
numerous injuries, the W&L men’s soccer
team concluded the year with an 8-6-2 record

and finished third in the ODAC with a con-

ference record of 2-2.

The Generals, who struggled offensively
much of the season, finished the year by
playing some of their best soccer at the end.
W&L went 3-1-1 in its final games, notching
a win and a tie over a pair of NCAA Divi-
sion II schools.

Junior Patrick Brown, who now owns
the W&L record for career assists with 17,
was named to the All-ODAC soccer team,
aS was senior co-captain Steven Udicious,
who was generally regarded as the ODAC’s
premier defensive player.

‘“We’ve been inconsistent, but I think
overall we played a high level of soccer
against a very strong schedule,’’ head coach
Rolf Piranian said. ‘‘We had a senior class
that played very well, and I believe each
senior played the best soccer of his career this
year.””

Water Polo

When the Generals began their 1988
water polo season, they hoped to have their
best year ever. But a host of tough losses left
the team short of those expectations as it
finished with a 15-9 record.

The Generals’ archrival Arkansas-Little
Rock, a team of international players that
qualified for the NCAA national champion-
ships, provided a third of W&L’s defeats in

 

1988, as well as nearly all the Generals’
frustration.

Three times the teams met in 1988, each
game more crucial than the last, and each
time the Generals came up a dollar short.
The final contest occurred during the Eastern
Championships, where W&L tied Arkansas-
Little Rock in the third quarter only to lose
by a 16-12 count.

Senior co-captains David Dietz and
David Reavy and classmate Moose Herring
were named to the Southern Water Polo
Conference all-tournament team.

Cross Country

Both the W&L men’s and women’s cross
country teams finished third in the ODAC
Championships for the second year in a row.

Senior co-captain Bill Clark paced the
men to their finish behind Lynchburg and
Eastern Mennonite. Clark finished fourth
overall in the meet. Freshman Charles Ed-
wards was W&L’s next finisher, coming in
eighth. Both Clark and Edwards were nam-
ed to the All-ODAC team.

Sophomore Paige Cason led the W&L
women again this year. She finished fifth
overall in the ODAC meet and was named
to the all-conference team for the second year
in a row.

Women’s Tennis

The W&L women’s tennis team con-
tinues to move its way into the national
scene. The Generals, who went 18-1 last year
and were ranked in the top 10 in the nation,
showed every indication they haven’t lost a
step this year.

In the fall portion of the split women’s
tennis season, W&L went 6-1, and the most
impressive part of that record may have been
the one loss. The Generals were defeated by
last year’s Division III national champion
Mary Washington 5-4 in a match that should
put W&L near the top of most lists when the
tennis season resumes in the spring.

Sophomore Jean Stroman, W&L’s No.
1 singles player and last year’s ODAC Player
of the Year, again led the Generals during
the fall.

W&L

 

39

 

 

 

) 3 JOSEPH W. MCDONALD serves as

president of McDonald Brothers Co.
Inc., a wholesale appliance business in Memphis,
Tenn.

) 3 3 HOMER G. RAY JR. keeps active
in his retirement playing golf at
Atlanta’s Peachtree Golf Club with Robert L.

Garges, ’43; Charles R. Yates Jr., ’70; and Isham
M. Sheffield III, ’53, SSL.

2 3 8 JOHN C. COOK of Arcadia, Calif.,

soared to a personal record in his fly-
ing career early last spring when he piloted his
Schweizer 1-26D sailplane to an altitude of 26,000
feet. Having climbed 18,000 feet in 75 minutes,
Cook earned his Gold Altitude Leg, Diamond
Altitude Leg, and one Lennie Pin from the Civil
Air Patrol.

3 9 RALPH G. CLARK, a former presi-

dent of the Waterford (Conn.) Canoe
Club, is spending his retirement sailing and
navigating schooners. He lives with his wife,
Jeanne, in Waterford.

RODNEY L. ODELL, a retired newspaper jour-
nalist, spent more than five months at sea last year
on cruises and ocean crossings that took him from
Alaska to Africa and then from Europe to South
America. He lives in St. Augustine, Fla., most of
the year, but maintains a home on the Jersey shore.

? AQ JOHN S. BROOME of Oxnard,
Calif., was one of 100 passengers
aboard the 747 ‘‘Friendship One’’ last January

when the plane made a record-breaking 36-hour,
54-minute flight around the world. The plane made

two stops during the flight.
? 4 1 THEODORE A. BRUINSMA, a
1986 gubernatorial appointee to the

California State University Board of Trustees,

 

Huntley said.

has the largest of its eight offices.

ficer in February 1987.

 

Huntley Accepts New Position

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’°57L, former president of Washington and Lee, has
joined the Richmond law firm of Hunton & Williams as counsel.

Huntley had been chairman and chief executive officer of Best Products Co. Inc.

‘*I am excited and pleased to be able to return to my first love, the law, and
especially to be able to do so as counsel to one of the nation’s outstanding law firms,”’

‘*‘I went into private practice when I graduated from law school 30 years ago.
I have enjoyed my experiences in education and business, but I’m looking forward
to doing what lawyers are trained to do—analyzing problems and advising clients.’’
Huntley expects to practice in the areas of general business, corporate, and an-
titrust matters. He will continue to live in Richmond, where Hunton & Williams

Huntley joined Best in January 1984, became president and chief operating of-
ficer in June 1984, and was elected chairman of the board and chief executive of-

 

 

400 W&L

resigned from his post in May to pursue a future
in political office. A former dean of the Loyola
Law School, Bruinsma is currently president of
University Technology Transfer Inc. of Torrance.

? 4 3 In August PHILIP A. SELLERS, an

investment banker from Mont-
gomery, Ala., was elected to serve as chairman of
the Alabama Commission on Higher Education.
The commission approves new degree programs
at the state’s 57 colleges and universities, advises
the governor and legislature on higher education
matters, oversees student assistance programs, and
makes an annual budget recommendation for the
state.

4 4 Former Va. Gov. A. LINWOOD
HOLTON JR. is president of
Virginia’s Center for Innovative Technology, an
organization created by the General Assembly four
years ago to fund research at state universities on
the condition that scientists find matching private
funds. Holton joined the center in November after
finishing a fall teaching fellowship at the Kennedy
School of Government at Harvard University.

4 6 ROBERT J. SMITH is chief judge of

the Henrico County Juvenile and
Domestic Relations District Court in Richmond,
where he lives with his wife, Nancy.

9 4 8 WARREN U. OBER, professor of

English at the University of Waterloo
in Canada, is the co-author of A Mind For Ever
Voyaging: Wordsworth at Work Portraying
Newton and Science, a book published this fall by
the University of Alberta Press.

9 5 QO After 32 years of service with the

Central Intelligence Agency,
LAWRENCE M. HARDING went back to school
at Northern Virginia Community College, where
he earned an associate in arts degree (Summa cum

laude). He majored in piano and minored in voice.
Harding lives in Falls Church.

RICHARD E. HODGES is chairman emeritus of
Noble Liller Neal, an Atlanta advertising and
public relations agency. He also serves as chair-
man of the board of Georgia Motor Club (AAA).

DR. J. PETER MUHLENBERG is director of

‘pediatrics at the Reading Hospital and Medical

Center in Reading, Pa. He is active with the March
of Dimes and the South Mountain YMCA camp.

Broadcast journalist ROGER H. MUDD receiv-
ed the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in Oc-

tober. Mudd, who lives in McLean, Va., earned
a master’s degree in American history from UNC
in 1951.

ROBERT J. SMITH (See ’46).

9 5 y HORACE W. DIETRICH is direc-

tor of property management for the
Charlton Raynd Development Co. in San Diego.
He is responsible for the firm’s $143.5 million, 1.1
million-square-foot Symphony Towers, which is
under construction on downtown San Diego’s B
Street ‘‘Financial Corridor.’’ He is past president
of the San Diego County Institute of Real Estate
Management and the Building Owners and
Managers Association.

HARRY J. GRIM moved to
Dallas in October to become
general counsel and group
executive vice president of
NCNB Texas. He was
associated with the law firm
of Moore & Van Allen in
Charlotte for 27 years, serv-
ing as partner for 23 years.

5 4 RAYMOND F. BEE is employed

with United States Steel in the elec-
tric furnace department at South Works in
Chicago.

R. H. (BOOEY) COOLIDGE JR. of Loveland,
Ohio, is in business for himself, selling sand-
blasting equipment and supplies. He also main-
tains a glass etching and carving business at the
same location.

HARRY J. GRIM (See ’52).

   

After 32 years with the law firm of Hamblett &

Kerrigan in Nashua, N.H., DONALD S.

LATOURETTE started LaTourette Title Corp.

He and his wife, Kay, live in Chester.

5 5 JOHN A. RUTHERFORD is the
author of Cowboy Shooting Stars, a

book published by Empire Publications in May

1988. Rutherford is professor of education at Rad-
ford University in Virginia.

CHARLES K. SLICK is headmaster of the Hamp-
ton School in Cashiers, N.C. Most recently he was
headmaster of Chesapeake Academy in Irvington,

Va.

9 5 7 JOHN T. BOONE of Boca Raton,
Fla., is president and chief executive

officer of InnoVet Inc., developers of phar-

maceutical products for the animal health market.

HENRY C. MORGAN JR., partner with the
Virginia Beach law firm of Pender & Coward, con-
ducted a workshop on law firm networking at the
annual management seminar of the Institute for
Continuing Legal Education in Denver in July. He
is the founder of the Commonwealth Law Group,
a consortium of 13 Virginia firms.

9 5 8 KEITH R. BARNEY JR. of

Springfield, Va., recently retired
from 27 years of teaching in Fairfax County public
schools.

E. WORTH HIGGINS JR. is president of Worth

Higgins & Associates Inc., a commercial printing
plant in Richmond.

In August PHILIP H. WEEKS of Brooklyn,
N.Y., was elected vice president of Fidelity &
Guaranty Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of
USF&G Corp., which is based in Baltimore.

5 9 JAMES D. HAGUE JR. is credit

manager and cargo claims manager
in an export-import liquor business in the Virgin
Islands. He serves on the board of the Humane

 

 

 

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (a!so
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available in natural dark pine stain,
with crest in five colors, at the same price as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$170.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

W&L

Society of St. Thomas and the Ballet Theatre of
Virgin Islands.

In his 25th year with the Department of Defense
dependents’ school system, RICHARD A.
POWELL is a secondary reading specialist for
Edgren High School in Misawa, Japan.

Resort near Burlington, Vt., recently purchased
the yacht Intrepid to be the resort’s main attrac-
tion. The Intrepid won the Americas Cup in 1967
and in 1970, the last wooden yacht to do so.

LOUIS A. ROSENSTOCK III opened his own law
office in Chester, Va., in June.

 

Levin.

 

   

Planning for Reunions

These members of the class of 1964 25th reunion committee assembled last August
for a meeting in Lexington. They are (seated, left to right) Jim Maffitt, Doug
McDowell, Bill Schildt, Al Eckes, (standing, left to right) Steve Walsh, Howard Mar-
tin, Jim Burkart, Don McFall, Bob Powell, John Winebrenner, Buck Ogilvie, Con-
way Shield, ‘‘Spud’’ Schramm, Les Rucker, Skip Hickenlooper, Bill Noell, and Mike

 

 

60) WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER, presi-

dent of the Charlotte advertising
agency of Loeffler Ketchum Mountjoy, was
recently named chairman of the National Adver-
tising Agency Network. NAAN, the oldest agen-
cy network in North America, has more than 50
advertising agency members.

HENRY C. MORGAN JR. (See ’57).

6 1 S. C. (TAG) STRITE JR. is director
of asset management for the

marketing and service group of IBM in Rye Brook,

N.Y

62 DR. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY

practices pediatrics in Fishkill, N.Y.,

and continues to breed and race thoroughbred
horses.

V. T. (BILL) LATHBURY III and his new wife,
Joyce, have moved to a farm near Princeton, N.J.
Lathbury manages high-yield and convertible
mutual funds with Merrill Lynch Asset
Management.

ROBERT D. LEWIS is vice president for human
resources and communications with Palco Telecom
Inc. in Nashville, Tenn. He and his wife, Elaine,
moved from Oakville, Ontario, to Nashville last
summer.

GEORGE S. LOGAN is manager of employee
relations at the Anheuser-Busch brewery in
Houston. He previously held a similar position at
the company’s brewery in Fairfield, Calif.

San Diego defense lawyer PHILIP D. SHARP JR.
was inducted into the American College of Trial
Lawyers last spring. He practices with the firm of
Shifflet, Sharp & Walters.

"63

42 W&L

A. JUDSON BABCOCK, managing
general partner of the Marble Island

6 4 PAUL R. COCKSHUTT JR. is coor-

dinator of undergraduate advising in
the English department at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh. He has taught journalism,
literature, and non-fiction writing at the school
since 1977.

ROBERT O. FOERSTER III is a federal ad-
ministrative law judge in Savannah, Ga. He lives
on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

ALVIN B. HUTZLER II is a director of the Na-
tional Cleft Palate Association and vice president
of the National Association of Tobacco
Distributors. He works in Richmond as president
and chairman of Cliff Weil Inc., a wholesaler ser-
vicing retail stores in the South.

JAY F. JACOT was recently promoted to the rank
of captain in the U.S. Naval Reserve Supply
Corps. He is logistics manager for Northrop Ser-
vices Inc. in Newport, R.I.

WILLIAM M. SCHILDT is a partner in the law
firm of Strite, Schildt & Varner in Hagerstown,
Md., where he lives with his wife and two daugh-
ters, Katharine Clark, 4, and Emily Carter, 1.

PHILIP D. SHARP JR. (See ’62).

In January 1988 TAIN P. TOMPKINS was
selected for membership in the Phi Beta Kappa
Associates, a society of 300 of the nation’s 435,000
members of Phi Beta Kappa. Tompkins is a
foreign service officer in Canberra, Australia.

DR. PETER S. TRAGER is president of the
Northwestern District Dental Society, which
represents 22 counties in northwest Georgia. A past
president of the Cobb County Dental Society and
the Delta Dental Plan of Georgia, he has practic-
ed restorative dentistry in Marietta since 1977.

65
chairman, president, and owner of

Waste Recovery Inc., the Dallas-based company
that shreds tires and sells the rubber as fuel, said

 

ANDERSON B. CAROTHERS,

he expects his company’s revenues to hit $8 million
in 1989. Waste Recovery, which Carothers helped
establish in 1982, opened a new plant in Atlanta
this fall. Besides the Dallas and Atlanta plants, the
company has a plant in Houston and plans others
for Jacksonville, Fla., and Camden, N.J. In 1986,
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. bought a 10 percent
equity stake in the company for $1 million.

GEORGE W. PRICE III is a financial consultant
with Merrill Lynch in Spartanburg, S.C., where
he lives with his wife, Betty, and two children, Kim
and Zan. Price recently joined Merrill Lynch after
13 years as a vice president at Yeargin Properties
Inc. and Yeargin Financial Associates Inc.

JOSEPH G. WHEELER is the Yale Materials
Handling Equipment dealer for the Piedmont
areas of North and South Carolina. He lives in
Charlotte.

66 HARRY DENNERY operates
his own food service brokerage
business in Louisville, Ky.

CHARLES C. FISHBURNE III is the top anchor
at WT VR-TV Channel 6, Richmond’s No. | televi-
sion station (or No. 2, depending on the most re-
cent Arbitron and A. C. Nielson Co. ratings).
Since Fishburne joined the WTVR staff in 1984,
the station has won a Community Service Award
from the Television Academy of Arts and Sciences
and was named outstanding news operation by
both the Associated Press and United Press
International.

JOHN D. (DUSTY) RHODES of Bath, Maine,
is senior counsel for American City Bureau, the
nation’s oldest fund-raising firm with headquarters
in Chicago. Rhodes had been owner and president
of Rhodes Associates, a public relations and fund-
raising firm in Brunswick, Maine.

In June ERIC L. SISLER and ROBERT N.
JOYCE JR., ’81, formed a law partnership in Lex-
ington, Va.

JAMES B. THOMPSON JR. is employed with
Caltex Trading in Singapore, where he lives with
his wife, Toni, and two children, Kimberley
Catherine Jane, 5, and Timothy James Lee, 1.
67 JAMES D. AWAD is president of

BMI Capital and manages $500
million in stocks for his clients. He lives in New

York City with his wife, Pamela, and two children,
Amanda, 3, and James, 1.

THOMAS C. DAVIS III is associate professor of
ethics and theology at the South Florida Center
for Theological Studies in Miami.

B. MICHAEL HERMAN is
employed with the Health
Insurance Association of
America in Washington,
D.C., as counsel for its
legal/state affairs division.
| He is former senior vice
president of the Roanoke
division of Blue Cross and
Blue Shield of Virginia.

J. MCDANIEL (MAC) HOLLADAY, director of
the South Carolina State Development Board,
received an honorary doctor of business ad-
ministration degree last spring from Johnson &
Wales College at Charleston.

W. SCOTT MILLER, senior partner of the
Sawyer/Miller Group in New York City, is a

political and corporate strategist who served as
director of paid media for Gov. Michael Dukakis’s
presidential campaign.

WILLIAM B. O’NEAL of Bucksport, Maine, is
the author of Wolffile, a novel published in
September under the pseudonym Jack Woods.

EDWARD B. (BOB) ROBERTSON JR. is super-
visor of competitive parts pricing with Ford Motor
of Europe. He lives in Ebereschenweg, West Ger-
many, with his wife, Barbara, and two children,
Sandra, 13, and Thomas, 9.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER, a journalist with
The Messenger in Madison, N.C., won first place
in the 1987 North Carolina Press Association’s an-
nual contest for investigative reporting in the small
newspaper division. Rochester won for his series
exposing shady dealings between bankers and
politicians in Rockingham County, N.C.

JOHN C. B. SMITH (See Samuel F. Painter, ’72).
J. A. (JIM) STALNAKER was elected vice presi-
dent of the Virginia Symphony this year. He prac-
tices law in Norfolk and lives in Virginia Beach.
6 8 JON D. ALLEN is a senior invest-

ment officer with the Overseas
Private Investment Corp., a U.S. government
agency. He is involved in making loans to
American businesses that have projects in develop-

ing countries such as Argentina, Colombia,
Bolivia, Zambia, and Tanzania.

JAMES W. BARIA of Stone Mountain, Ga.,
works as market manager with KLS International.

RICHARD K. CHRISTOVICH recently served as
president of the New Orleans Association of
Defense Counsel and as state chairman of the
Defense Research Institute. He practices aviation
and admiralty law with Christovich & Kearney in
New Orleans.

ROBERT C. GASTROCK is deputy commander
for operations with the Alaska Air National
Guard.

HAL F. HIGGINBOTHAM JR. is executive
director of the College Scholarship Service, an arm
of the College Board in New York City.

WILLIAM M. SCHILDT (See ’64).

GUY M. TOWNLEY is the owner of Townley’s
Dairy in Oklahoma City, where he is active with
the Rotary Club and is a member of the board of
directors of Traveler’s Aid.

RICHARD W. WILSON teaches at the Institut
Hotelier ‘‘Cesar Ritz’’ in Switzerland.

9 69 DR. WALTER H. GREEN is direc-

tor of the emergency care department
at Campbell County Memorial Hospital in Gillette,
Wyo., where he lives with his wife, Susan, and four
children: John, 13; Nathan and Bethany, 11; and
Rebekah, 5.

JACK L. LINTNER of Belle Mead, N.J., was ap-
pointed to the New Jersey Superior Court and
sworn in as a judge on July 1. A former partner
with the firm of Golden, Lintner, Rothschild,
Spagnola & DiFazio, he now presides in Middlesex
County.

HENRY L. (RODDY) ROEDIGER III became
professor of psychology at Rice niversity this fall.
He is editor of the Journal of Experimental
Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition
and has co-authored three textooks that are now

in second or third editions. He lives in Houston
with his wife, Mary Schiller, and two children,
Kurt, 3, and Rebecca, 2.

ERIC L. SISLER (See ’66).

7 0 After 10 years in Canada—the last

three as director of oral medicine and
surgery at Alberta Children’s Hospital and at the
Tom Baker Cancer Centre in Calgary—DR.
RICHARD B. ABRAMS has returned to the
United States as chief of dentistry at Children’s
Hospital in Denver.

In August REED B. BYRUM was named manager
of public relations at Measurex Corp., a Cuper-
tino, Calif., company that provides Computer In-
tegrated Manufacturing systems worldwide.

CHRISTOPHER D. COURSEN, a former part-
ner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of O’Con-
nor & Hannan, has established the Status Group,
an intelligence firm that provides confidential
briefings to clients. Coursen serves as president.

In August THE REV. ROBERT W. COWPER-
THWAITE became rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church, located outside Nashville, Tenn. St.
Paul’s is the oldest Episcopal church in the state.
Cowperthwaite lives in Franklin with his wife,
Susan, and children, Christopher and Sarah.

T. KENNETH CRIBB, President Reagan’s
domestic policy adviser since March 1987, was
named a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation
in September. While associated with the
Washington, D.C., think tank, Cribb will work
on a book examining Reagan’s political
philosophy.

RAY W. DEZERN JR., a partner with the Nor-
folk, Va., law firm of Knight, Dudley, Pincus,
Dezern & Clarke, was elected president of the
Virginia Symphony in September. He has been a
member of the organization’s board of directors
since 1981.

EDWIN R. FEINOUR, a partner in the Roanoke
investment counseling firm of Dixon, Hubard &
Feinour Inc., is serving on the southwestern
regional board of directors of Central Fidelity
Bank.

DR. HUGH B. FOSHEE, a 1988 graduate of the
University of Louisville School of Medicine, began

an internship in internal medicine at the Univer-
sity of Louisville Affiliated Hospitals this summer.
He lives in Louisville with his wife, Kathryn.

DR. GREGORY L. HOLMES is director of
clinical neurophysiology at the Children’s Hospital
in Boston. An associate professor of neurology at
Harvard Medical School, Holmes is the author of
Diagnosis and Management of Seizures in
Children, which was published in 1987 by W. B.
Saunders Co. of Philadelphia.

JAMES O. MATHEWS JR. left Citicorp earlier
this year to form two companies. Jom Real Estate
Inc. purchases and restores historic properties in
Washington, D.C. Jom Productions Inc. is a pro-
ducer and distributor of music that Mathews com-
posed and recorded last spring at RCA in New
York.

JOHN K. MOTSINGER is vice president and staff
attorney for RMK Corp. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

DONALD C. SMITH is environmental section
leader for Sverdrup Corp.’s general consultant
contract with the Florida Department of Transpor-
tation for its statewide bridge widening and
replacement program. He lives in Tallahassee.

GERALD W. WEEDON is president of the board
of Assumption School in Jacksonville, Fla., which
he once attended. His children, Lauren, 10, Jamey,
9, and John, 7, are now students at the school.
7 1 STEPHEN A. STRICKLER has

joined the law firm of Dinsmore,

Evans, Bryant & Strickler in Virginia Beach.

DR. GEORGE HOY WIDENER maintains a solo
ophthalmology practice in Beaufort, S.C., where
he lives with his wife, Ann, and children, Justin
and Collin.

72 JAMES W. M. CARSON is senior

manager with Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in the bank’s New York-based
U.S. Operations Office. He previously was vice

president of Corporate Asset Funding, a unit of
Citicorp Industrial Credit in London.

Navy CMDR. CHARLES J. HARLAND of Rich-
mond reported for duty this summer with 2nd
Force Service Support Group at Camp Lejeune,
N.C.

 

City?

copy us.”’

 

At the Core of the Controversy
What does the mayor of Columbia, S.C., know about the history of New York

Plenty, according to T. Patton Adams, ’69. Adams is the mayor of Columbia,
and he made headlines last summer when he wrote to New York’s Mayor Ed Koch
with a new theory about the origin of that city’s curious nickname, ‘‘The Big Apple.”’

Adams believes the name came from a popular dance called the Big Apple, which
he says originated in the 1930s in a Columbia nightclub named Fat Sam’s Big Apple.
The dance, which the New York Times described as ‘‘a sort of raucous Charleston,”’
caught on with students at the University of South Carolina, who were invited to
perform it at New York’s Roxy Theater on Aug. 29, 1937.

The dance became so popular across the country, Columbia residents say, that
its name stuck with the city where it first enjoyed a large audience.

The mayor from New York, however, reportedly remains unconvinced by Adams’s
theory. ‘‘I think they’re wrong,’’ said Koch, who believes the nickname came from
a Harlem jazz term. ‘‘It’s the highest form of adulation for other cities to want to

 

 

W&L 43

E. PHILLIPS HARVEY JR. is vice president and
assistant general manager of 8 Mile Inc., a family
farming and ranching operation in New Mexico.
He lives in Las Cruces with his wife, Carlitta, and
three children: Elizabeth, 9; Phillip III, 8; and
Margaret, 3.

MICHAEL R. LONG is associated with
Rockbridge Asset Management in New York City.

A. SCOTT NEESE has taken a post as director
of research and development with World Wide
Chemicals Inc. in Indianapolis, manufacturers of
the CarBrite line of automotive reconditioning pro-
ducts. Neese and his wife, Patty, and two
daughters, Lindsay, 5, and Lauren, 3, moved from
Philadelphia to Carmel, Ind., this fall.

Last summer the law firm of Nexsen, Pruet,
Jacobs & Pollard merged with Moore & Van Allen
to form the largest firm in the Carolinas. The new
firm brings together five W&L alumni: SAMUEL
F. PAINTER, ’72; JOHN C. B. SMITH, ’67;
MARK L. BENDER, ’73; PAUL A. DOMINICK,
’79; and H. FRASIER IVES, ’86. Moore & Van
Allen has offices in Charlotte, Raleigh, Durham,
and North Carolina’s Research Triangle.

9 7 3 MARK L. BENDER (See Samuel F.

Painter, ’72).

W. P. (SAM) ENGLEHART is serving on the
board of governors of the Maryland State Bar
Association for the 1988-90 term. He practices with
the Towson, Md., firm of Nolan, Plumhoff &
Williams.

DENNIS W. MICHAUD is president of
Southampton Cos., land developers in Palm
Beach, Fla., where he lives with his wife, Vickie.

SCOTT A. RIEGER is vice president of corporate
and investor relations with Stoorza, Ziegaus &
Metzger Inc., a marketing communications firm
based in San Diego.

GARY L. SEAMAN is president of SeaHook Inc.,
a Williamsburg, Va., general contracting firm that
he established in 1987.

DR. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN is opening a.

private practice in pediatric and general der-
matology in Fairfax, Va., this January. Silverman
moved from Mayfield Village, Ohio, in December.

J. A. (SIM) STALNAKER (See ’67).

MARSHALL P. WASHBURN is business
manager of automotive fabricating at a new
Milliken & Co. plant in Spartanburg, S.C.

74 THE REV. JACK E. ALTMAN III

is chaplain at St. Paul’s School in
Brooklandville, Md.

WILLIAM L. BEARDEN is assistant director for
technical services at Stockton State College Library
in Pomona, N.J.

B. MICHAEL HERMAN (See ’67).

DOUGLAS B. HUTTON is employed with the
North Charles St. Design Organization in
Baltimore, where he lives with his wife, Dorcas
Kraybill, and son, Matthew Kraybill Hutton, 1.

J. L. (KIRK) KIRKPATRICK JR. is vice presi-
dent of sales for Wax Works, one of only 15 na-
tional video movie distributors. The company
distributes video software to 4,500 stores in mid-
America and also owns a chain of 55 record stores
called ‘‘Disc Jockeys.’’ Kirkpatrick lives in

44 W&L

 

 

Alumni Find Real-Life Fantasy Island

It is the univer-
sal dream: to get
fed up with one’s
job, quit, and
move away to
some deserted
tropical island,
thousands of miles
away from traffic
jams, stressful
careers, snow-
storms, and never-
ending presidential
campaigns.

For most of us,
it is only a fantasy.
But Worthington
Brown Jr., ’62,
and Richard B. Raines, 57, managed to
turn that dream into reality.

Brown and Raines are two members
of a partnership that recently purchased
**Little Palm Island,’’ a five-acre body of
land about 120 miles south of Miami, and
have transformed it into a full-scale
tropical resort.

Billed as a ‘‘Caribbean-style
hideaway,’’ the facility boasts 14
thatched-roof bungalows, freshwater
lagoon-style swimming pools with a
waterfall and adjacent ‘‘tiki bar,’’ boat
slips, and a main lodge with dining facility
and library. Guests also have the use of
windsurfers, day sailers, canoes, shoal
water sailboats, and masks and fins for
snorkeling.

 

 

For Brown and Raines, their new ven-
ture represents quite a departure from
their previous careers. Raines is a clinical
assistant professor at the University of
Tennessee, Memphis, and part owner of
Crown Distributing Co. Brown has spent
the last 10 years buying and selling U.S.
Treasury Bond options in the Chicago
Board of Trade.

**I figured I’d been pushed around,
spit on, and poked in the ribs just one too
many times,’’ Brown told the Chicago
Tribune in explaining his career change.

**Little Palm Island is renewal. It gives
back to life the perspective that is miss-
ing from the rough house of the floor of
the Board of Trade. I welcome my former
colleagues to come down and relax.’’

 

 

Owensboro, Ky., with his wife and daughter,
Kelsey.

JOHN S. LALLEY JR. is manager of investor
relations for McCormick & Co. Inc. in Baltimore.
He lives in Ruxton with his wife, Maureen, and
three children: Jennifer, 6; Tara, 4; and John, 2.

RICHARD H. METCALF joined the news staff
of the Rappahannock Record, a weekly newspaper
serving Virginia’s Northern Neck. He lives in
Kilmarnock with his wife, Beverly, and son,
Prescott.

GEOFFREY N. NOLAN and C. BERKELEY
WILSON II, ’75, have established Walker &
Dunlop Southeast Inc., a commercial real estate
and mortgage banking firm in Atlanta. The com-
pany is affiliated with Walker & Dunlop in
Washington, D.C. In its first year of business, the
company closed more than $100 million in deals.

DR. C. W. (BUCKY) PINNELL is in a group
obstetrics and gynecology practice with offices in
Chesapeake and Virginia Beach. He and his wife,
Mary Warren, have a son, Wellford, 6.

In September MARK WOOLMAN PRESTON
opened his own law offices in Atlanta. He was
formerly associated with the firm of Weiner,
Dwyer & Yancey.

7 5 BENJAMIN L. BAILEY of

Charleston, W.Va., has been
representing Gov. Arch A. Moore in a lawsuit
seeking to halt or recover damages for a plant clos-
ing caused by a hostile takeover. Bailey, who is
employed with the governor’s office, was a
delegate to the Republican National Convention
last summer.

DR. D. GARDNER BRITT practices emergency
room medicine in Sonoma, Calif. He lives in Santa
Rosa with his wife, Debbie, and sons, David, 5,
and Travis, 2.

HARWELL M. DARBY JR., a member of the
Roanoke law firm of Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann
& Darby, is serving a one-year term as head of the
family law section of the Virginia State Bar.

WILLIAM C. (BURR) DATZ resigned as assis-
tant director of security at W&L in August to serve
as campus minister for St. Patrick’s Catholic
Church in Lexington. Datz, who is also the
church’s director of music, works with students
from W&L, the Virginia Military Institute, and
Southern Seminary Junior College.

DR. KENNETH M. FAUTEUX maintains an or-

CAPT. WARREN T. WOLFE reported for duty
this summer with 2nd Force Service Support
Group, Marine Corps Air Station in Cherry Point,
N.C. He joined the Marine Corps in 1983.

thodontic practice in Fairfax, Va., where he lives
with his wife and son, Paul, 3.

SCOTT GLASS is an architect and principal with

tistry privately i in Virginia Beach, where he lives
with his wife, pape

CAPT. KERRY D. SCOTT, Reserve Assistant Ar-

      

 

the Greenwood Partnership, an architectural and
engineering firm in Lynchburg, Va. = and his

__ wife, Alice, have a son, Taylor, 5.

aha, Ala., firm of Balch
& Bingham to become a
partner in the business and
finance department at the
Atlanta firm of Alston &
Bird.

DR. JAMES E. POPE practices invasive car-
diology in Tampa, Fla.

C. BERKELEY WILSON II (See Geoffrey N.
Nolan, ’74).

IRVIN E. WOLFSON is opening an insurance
agency in Grand Rapids, Mich., where he lives
with his wife and son.

7 6 WILLIAM E. BIRBICK is senior

manufacturing engineer with Volvo-
GM Heavy Truck Corp. in Greensboro, N.C. He
is responsible for materials engineering, automa-

tion, and cost reduction for new model trucks that
will be introduced in 1993.

BRETT R. BURKHART has established the ar-
chitectural firm of Burkhart/Thomas in Norfolk,
Va.

In May the National Association of Manufacturers
in Washington, D.C., appointed DOUGLAS W.
DARBY to the newly created position of associate
director of special projects in the Membership and
Public Affairs Division.

ROY M. JONES became a member of the Cushing
& Morris law firm in Atlanta on July 1.

MARK M. LAWSON, a partner in the Bristol,
Va., office of the law firm White, Elliott & Bun-
dy, has been elected the firm’s first managing part-
ner. Lawson directs the day-to-day operations for
the firm, which also has an office in Abingdon,
Va.

KEITH W. MARTIN maintains a solo law prac-
tice in Red Bank, N.J.

DOUGLAS W. MCRAE recently became a vice
president and stockholder of Hamilton Dorsey
Alston Co., an independently owned and operated
insurance agency in Atlanta, where he lives with
his wife, daughter, and son.

ROBERT W. H. MISH III spent part of the sum-
mer in his hometown of Lexington, Va., where he
played the leading role of John P. Wintergreen in
Henry Street Playhouse and Stock Co.’s third sum-
mer production, Of Thee I Sing. Mish is director
of college counseling at St. Anne’s-Belfield, a
private school in Charlottesville, Va.

DOUGLAS R. MUIR, a certified public accoun-
tant and active member in the Tennessee and North
Carolina societies of CPAs, has been admitted into
the partnership of Price Waterhouse. He lives in
Charlotte.

DR. VERNON E. O’BERRY JR. practices den-

“ceremony July 14

LLIAM LASSETTER is in oy estate iin ol ee es

vestments with — Morgan R salty in

my Attache to Austria, graduated from the U.S.
nd

associated with the investment bank-
ing unit of Bankers Trust Co. in Atlanta, where
he lives with his wife, Jane.

PHILLIP J. ENRICO JR. is a law clerk in the of-
fice of New Jersey’s attorney general. He lives in
Plainfield, N.J.

MICHAEL L. FERRARA
of Blandon, Pa., is senior
product/equipment editor
for Organic Gardening
magazine, which has a cir-
culation of one million and
is published by Rodale Press
in Emmaus, Pa.

H. DENNY GAULTNEY, who is associated with
Skinners’ Dairy Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla., is chair-
man of the board for the Florida Dairy Products
Association.

JOHN H. GAYLE V is senior partner with Design

Point in White Plains, N.Y., where he lives with
his wife and two daughters.

WALTER DEKALB KELLEY JR. is president of
the Young Lawyers Conference of the Virginia
State Bar. He is associated with Willcox & Savage
in Norfolk.

On Oct. 1 DR. ROBERT E. OTTENRITTER

 

joined the obstetrics and gynecology practice of .

Drs. Haw, Dudley, Morris & Spencer-Strong in
Lutherville, Md. Ottenritter joins W&L alumni
Albert H. Dudley Jr., ’44, and William H.
Spencer-Strong II, ’63, in the practice.

HENRY L. PHILLIPS III has been elected vice
president in asset-based financing at Wachovia
Bank and Trust in Winston-Salem, N.C., where
he is an account officer.

CAPT. ANGELO B. SANTELLA is an ROTC in-
structor at St. John’s University in Jamaica, N.Y.
He is working on his master’s degree in govern-
ment and political science.

CAPT. MARSHALL K. SNYDER recently
returned from a 14-month tour in Okinawa,
Japan, where he served as the assistant
communications-electronics officer with the 9th
Marine Amphibious Brigade. While in Japan,
Snyder worked on a daily basis with Capt. Roland
Walters, ’78, the brigade combat intelligence of-
ficer, and Lt. Col. Ralph Pearcy, ’69, the brigade
staff judge advocate. Snyder is currently station-
ed at Camp Pendleton, Calif., with the 13th
Marine Expeditionary Unit.

THEODORE L. UHLMAN is business systems
manager with MacMillan Publishing Co. in
Newtown, Pa.

GREGORY S. WALDEN was appointed chief

counsel of the Federal Aviation Administration on |

May 2. He left the U.S. Justice Department in
April after five years of service. He lives in Alex-
andria, Va.

f College i ina

    

9 a & M. DANIEL BECQUE, who recently ©
earned a Ph.D. in kinesiology from.

the University of Michigan, is a postdoctoral _
fellow at the University of Massachusetts in the _

| of exercise science. He has been
é of ated a anc

TIMOTHY D. BENT is assistant professor of
English at Wake Forest University in North
Carolina.

A. A. (LEX) BIRNEY JR., owner and operator
of the Chesapeake Sailing School in Annapolis,
Md., recently completed his third race to Bermuda
in the Annapolis-Bermuda Yacht Race. He was
navigator aboard the yacht Adventurer.

WILLIAM K. BURTON is living in Richmond,
where he has been responsible for opening and
managing a regional loan production office for
NCNB National Bank of North Carolina.

GEORGE L. CARSON JR. recently earned a
master of management degree from Northwestern
University and has been promoted to manager of
market development with Walker Manufacturing
in Illinois.

JAMES T. FERGUSON is a law student at
Southern Methodist University in Dallas.

THE REV. VICTOR H. (SKIP) FORSYTH JR.
and his wife, Pam, are spending two years of
pastoral and mission service in Sydney, Australia,
with the Presbyterian Church. Their service
follows more than five years of pastoral ministry
in El Paso, Texas.

R. B. NASH FRANCIS JR. is senior account ex-
ecutive with S. L. Nusbaum Insurance Agency Inc.
in Norfolk, Va. Francis is a property, casualty,
and surety bond specialist. He and his wife, Kate,
have one child.

PETER C. KEEFE is an associate analyst and
broker with the research services group at
Johnston, Lemon & Co. in Washington, D.C.

GERALD L. MAATMAN JR. participated in the
1988 British Amateur Golf Championships at
Royal Porthcawl Golf Club in Wales. He was one
of 40 players from the United States among the
280-person international field.

E. D. (GARY) POUCH III is an investment broker
with A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in Greenville,
S.C.

7 9 ROBERT M. BALENTINE JR. of

Atlanta has formed Balentine & Co.,
a general securities firm specializing in tax-exempt
securities, investment advisory selection, and cor-
porate finance.

PAUL A. DOMINICK (See Samuel F. Painter,
72).

A. CARTER MAGEE JR. is a member of the
board of directors for the Mid-Atlantic Institute
on Bankruptcy and Reorganization. He specializes
in commercial, insolvency, and bankruptcy law
with Magee & Associates, the Roanoke firm he
established in 1985.

W&L 45

 

 

p emical i awnee,
He is the father of 4-year-old twin boys, Rob
and Adam.

PETER M. WILLIAMS is vice president in the
investment banking group of Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding in London. He is responsible for
corporate finance in the United Kingdom. He and
his wife, Charlotte, have a son, Peter Jr., 1.

a.
ert

8 O ANDREW W. BODENSTAB, who

returned to the East Coast after six
years in Colorado, is employed with Chemical
Waste Management. He lives in Avondale, Pa.

DAVID A. BRYANT joined Shurgard Capital
Group in July as a district manager for the Virginia
and Washington, D.C., area.

HAMILTON C. DAVIS III, who is on assignment
in Tokyo with Continental Illinois National Bank,

recently bumped into classmate G. B. (Bart).

Peaslee and his two children in the Tokyo subway.
Davis has since returned to Chicago to trade U.S.
government securities for Continental Bank.

DR. H. D. (VON) GRAHAM III is completing
his final year as a resident in otolaryngology (head
and neck surgery) at Tulane Medical Center in New
Orleans. He plans to begin a fellowship in facial
plastic surgery.

ROBERT ALAN GURVAL recently finished a
doctorate in classics at the University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, and is teaching in the department
of classics at the University of California, Los
Angeles.

SAMUEL L. PERKINS opened his own law of-
fice in Lexington, Ky., in May. He and his wife,
Deborah, have four children, Elizabeth, Thomas,
Stephen, and Catherine.

TODD D. WOHLER is employed in the internal
audit group of Schlumberger Ltd. in Houston,
where he lives with his wife and daughter, Ashley.
Wohler holds a master of business administration

degree from Tulane University.
CAPT. WILLIAM L.

81

ABERNATHY JR. parachuted into
Honduras in March with 82nd Airborne Division
for operation ‘‘Golden Pheasant.’’ Ten days later,
he parachuted back into Fort Bragg, N.C., where
he is stationed.

WILLIAM E. BROCK IV, who opened a com-
puter training and support firm in 1985, has now
opened a Macintosh computer dealership in Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.

TRISH M. BROWN became a partner in the
Portland, Ore., law firm of Spears, Lubersky,
Bledsoe, Anderson, Young & Hilliard in January.

46 W&L

Conference.
ROBERT N. JOYCE (See Eric L. Sisler, ’66).

RICHARD C. KEATLEY JR. is a group
marketing representative for Equicor, the
employee benefits company formed by the
Equitable and Hospital Corp. of America. He lives
in Virginia Beach.

Former television investigative reporter and anchor
BEN W. KEESEE is now practicing law with the
Memphis, Tenn., firm of Thomason, Hendrix,
Harvey, Johnson, Mitchell, Blanchard & Adams.
He concentrates on First Amendment cases, in-
cluding libel, slander, and invasion of privacy, as
well as medical malpractice defense. At the na-
tional convention of the American Bar Associa-
tion in Toronto, Keesee appeared on a panel
discussing lawyer/news reporter relations. He is
also a program committee member for the Mem-
phis Public Affairs Council.

WALTER DEKALB KELLEY JR. (See ’77).

JAMES SCOTT MCDEARMAN (See ANN
GAINES DARLINGTON, ’82).

J. ROSS NEWELL III and his wife, Maggie, have
moved from Richmond to Staunton, Va., where
Newell practices law with the firm of Timberlake,
Smith, Thomas & Moses.

EDWARD J. VORWERK of New York City is
Operations manager for installation and
maintenance with Southern Manhattan’s ATT
Voice/Data Private Line Network.

MADISON T. WOODWARD III, a senior
geologist with Freeport-McMoran, lives in New
Orleans with his wife, Vereen, and son, Thomas, 2.

8 ) J. A. (TREY) BENSON III has been

promoted to marketing and sales
manager for the Aspen Group, a direct marketing
firm with headquarters in Philadelphia. Benson
lives in Alexandria, Va.

DR. MICHAEL P. BERNOT is completing his
second year as a resident in orthopedic surgery at
the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

THOMAS COLEMAN JR. is an associate in the
law firm of Spain, Gillon, Tate, Grooms & Blan
in Birmingham, Ala., where he lives with his wife,
Brooke.

ANN GAINES DARLINGTON maintains a solo
domestic relations law practice in Chattanooga,
Tenn., where she serves as 1988 chairwoman of
the local bar association’s Family Law Commit-
tee. Her husband, JAMES SCOTT MCDEAR-
MAN, ’81, practices law with Grant, Konvalinka
& Grubbs.

DR. HEYWARD H. FOUCHE JR., a 1988
graduate of the Medical University of South

 
   

Pensacola, Fla., law firm of Clark, Partington,
Hart, Larry, Bond, Stackhouse & Stone.

MICHAEL E. LAYNE, who is employed with
Signet Bank in Lynchburg, Va., was recently pro-
moted from branch manager to retail branch
manager/officer.

D. MICHAEL MARSH was named football coach
this summer at Keyser High School in West
Virginia. He had been assistant coach of football
and basketball at the school for the past three
years. Marsh lives in Keyser with his wife, Diane,
and son, David Michael Jr.

SAMUEL L. PERKINS (See ’80).

DAVID ESTILL PERLITZ is an advertising sales
representative for Washingtonian magazine in
Washington, D.C.

JOHN B. RUDDER recently earned a master’s
degree in French language and literature from the
University of Virginia and is now on the interpreta-
tion staff at Monticello.

EDMUND W. SCHENECKER II has joined the
Eastman Co. Inc., a Fort Worth, Texas, firm that
specializes in life and disability income insurance
sales. He serves as chairman of the Fort Worth
Public Library Advisory Board and is also on the
board of trustees of Fort Worth Country Day
School.

CAMDEN WOOD SELIG became director of
athletic promotions at the University of Virginia
in August. His responsibilities include assisting
ticket sales through marketing and acquiring cor-
porate sponsors for the university’s athletic
program.

9 8 4 PATRICK J. BUTTARAZZI JR. is

a legislative liaison with the
consulting firm of Manatos & Manatos Inc. in
Washington, D.C.

MELVILLE P. COTE JR. is enrolled in the ur-
ban and environmental policy program at Tufts
University’s Center for Public Service in Medford,
Mass.

SPENCER K. DICKINSON is pursuing a master
of business administration degree from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

PAUL N. FARQUHARSON is an associate with
the Baltimore law firm of Semmes, Bowen & Sem-
mes. He lives in Ellicott City, Md., with his wife,
Kelly.

1ST LT. DAVID R. HERR is stationed with the
3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, Marine Corps Base at
Camp Pendleton, Calif. In September he was
deployed to the naval air station in Fallon, Nev.,
where he received training in aerial combat
maneuvers, air-to-ground ordnance delivery, elec-
tronic warfare, and tactics.

 

dustrial properties and specializes in maquiladora
operations along the U.S./Mexico border.

WILLIAM D. WOOLFOLK is a staff reporter at
the Orange County Review in Virginia.

8 5 CHARLES RUSSELL DEPOY has

been promoted to senior consultant
with Price Waterhouse and transferred from the
company’s office of government services in
Washington, D.C., to the practice office in
Sacramento, Calif.

JEFFREY J. GIGUERE moved from Jackson-
ville, Fla., to become associated with the Pro-
vidence, R.I., law firm of Adler, Pollock &
Sheehan.

DANIEL M. JAYNE graduated in March from
the U.S. Army-Baylor University master’s degree
program in physical therapy. He works at Womack
Army Community Hospital in North Carolina.

FREDERICK G. JONES received a master’s

 

law firm with 155 attorneys.

WILLIAM E. WHITE III is a production
manager with Chesapeake Corp. in Richmond.

? 8 6 CHRISTEN A. ALEVIZATOS, a

third-year medical student at Vander-
bilt University, plays lacrosse for the
undergraduate team. The team won the SEC
championship last year at Auburn.

L. HUNTER BENES is employed with CMC, a
design/build firm in southern California. He lives
in Irvine with his wife, Susan.

2ND LT. RICHARD A. O. BENNETT earned a
master of science degree from Virginia Com-
monwealth University in August. Earlier in the
year he was inducted into Omicron Delta Kappa.

C. FREDERICK BENTLEY III is a senior auditor
in the financial institutions group with Citibank
in New York City.

H. MARTIN CHAPMAN JR. graduated from the
Virginia State Police Academy in September. He
lives in Fairfax, Va.

master of science degree in ife
sciences at Pennsylvania State University.

WILLIAM E. (HUTCH) HUTCHINSON is a
staff consultant with Deloitte, Haskins & Sells. He
lives in Richmond with Louis T. Dubuque, ’87.

H. FRASIER IVES (See Samuel F. Painter, ’72).

CHRISTOPHER P. JAKUBEK has been pro-
moted to key account manager for the Mennen Co.
USA. He coordinates sales in the Bal-
timore/Washington area.

ERIC S. OBECK is a corporate loan officer with
Barnett Bank in Tampa, Fla.

IST LT. C. A. (TONY) PFAFF JR. heads an in-
fantry platoon in the 82nd Airborne Division in
Fayetteville, N.C.

RALPH A. WALTER is an associate in the
mergers and acquisitions department of Shearman
and Sterling in New York City.

YVONNE S. WELLFORD practices commercial
litigation with the Richmond firm of Maloney,
Yeatts & Barr.

3 8 7 NCNB National Bank of Florida has

named GLYNN M. ALEXANDER
JR. as manager of its downtown Clearwater
branch. Alexander joined the bank last January.

MARK M. CANON teaches middle school math
at the Eaglebrook School, a boys’ boarding school
in Deerfield, Mass.

ANDREW R. CARUTHERS is pursuing a master
of business administration degree in a one-year
program at Southern Methodist University in
Dallas.

CHARLES G. M. GROH has completed five
months of training at Matsushita Communication
Corp. of America in Peachtree City, Ga., and has
been assigned to the Panasonic Industrial Sales Co.
in Orange County, Calif. He is an account
representative and is responsible for car audio
products.

THOMAS J. RANDOLPH had a poem, ‘‘Roof-
top Blues,’’ published in the August/September
issue of Out of the Blue Review. He lives in
Richmond.

Having completed a corporate training program
with First Union, JAMES B. SLOAN JR. is now
a commercial banking representative in the bank’s
Spartanburg, S.C., office.

B. J. STURGILL JR. is a first-year law student
at the Salmon P. Chase College of Law at Nor-
thern Kentucky University. In July, he finished a
year working as a legislative aide in the office of
Sen. Wendell Ford in Washington, D.C.

W&L 47

 

Marriages

 

BARRY M. STORICK, ’57, and Margaret J. Egan
on Sept. 2, 1988, in New York City. Storick prac-
tices law in Charlotte.

THOMAS WITBECK BUDD, ’61, and Ber-
nadette Smith-Kronin on July 4, 1988. Budd is a
partner in the New York City firm of Clifton,
Budd, Burke & DeMaria.

JOHN M. SHUEY JR., ’73, and Susan Ander-
son on Oct. 24, 1987. Shuey practices law with the
firm of Shuey & Smith in Shreveport, La.

HENRY CONRAD ROEMER III, ’78, and Mary
Denise Harmon on June 4, 1988. Roemer is a
second-year law student at Wake Forest Univer-
sity in Winston-Salem, N.C.

WILLIAM L. RODGERS JR., ’79, and Lucinda
M. Blaha on May 21, 1988, in Portland, Ore.
Rodgers is the owner of Rodgers Oil and Gas Land
Services in Portland.

COVERT J. GEARY, ’80, and Lisa Jean Miley
on April 9, 1988, in New Orleans. Members of the
wedding party included M. Graham Coleman II,
°79; Fletcher W. Harkrader III, ’80; Bret D. Love-
joy, ’80; M. Kevin McCusty, ’80; Robert H. Willis
Jr., °81; David B. Favrot Jr., ’82; Stephen P.
Geary, ’83; Anne E. Geary, ’89; and William L.
Geary Jr., ’91L.

DANA S. SAMUELSON, ’80, and Colleen M.
Kennedy on Aug. 16, 1988, at Lake Tahoe in
California. Samuelson is senior trader with Blan-
chard & Co., a precious metals and rare coins firm
in New Orleans.

DR. JOHN G. P. BOATWRIGHT JR., ’81, and
Barbara R. Spaulding on May 7, 1988, in
Charleston, S.C. Groomsmen included Robert R.
Nichols Jr., ’79; Dr. Douglas L. Gaker, ’81; John
A. Pumphrey, ’81; and Mark G. Rentschler, ’82.
The couple lives in Charleston.

CAPT. RICHARD P. KENNEY, ’81, and Melissa
Leigh Huey on July 23, 1988, in Tacoma, Wash.
Kenney is the battalion operations officer for the
29th Signal Battalion in Fort Lewis, Wash.

MICHAEL JUDGE, ’82, and Catherine Anne
Conness on Sept. 10, 1988, in Washington, D.C.
Judge, winner of the 1988 Helen Hayes Award for
outstanding lead actor in Washington theatre, has
moved to New York City with his wife to pursue
an acting career.

DR. HOWARD ELMO GILL III, ’83, and
Amelia Lynne Sanderson on June 11, 1988, in
Newport News, Va. Members of the wedding party
included J. Franklin Williams, ’82, and Capt.
Keith E. Goretzka, ’83. The couple lives in Birm-
ingham, Ala.

KEVIN Y. BERGER, ’84, and Leslie Malone on
Nov. 14, 1987. The couple lives in Wilmington,
Del., where Berger is employed with ICI Americas.

48 W&L

      

 

C S OLDS THOMPSON, ’85, an
Peggy Dulin on Sept. 24, 1988, in Memphis, Tenn.
Groomsmen included Thompson’s classmates, J.
Matthew Anthony, Thomas S. Shults, T. Lee
Robinson Jr., Gilbert F. Dukes III, Marshall R.
Young, William D. Brown Jr., and Charles C.
Pitts. Other groomsmen were J. A. (Skip) Skin-
ner III, ’84; James L. Fay Jr., ’84; and J. Thad
Ellis II, °82. Thompson is employed with Peter-
son Properties in Atlanta.

JOHN R. MAASS, ’87, and Felicia K. Andrews
on Aug. 20, 1988, in Lee Chapel. Groomsmen in-
cluded Christopher P. Lion, ’86; John P. Rowe,
°87; and Matthew J. Waterbury, 787. Maass is
employed with S&K Famous Brands in Richmond.

CHRISTOPHER H. BECKERT, ’88, and Kerri
Costigan on July 29, 1988. Beckert is currently
enrolled in the Army Infantry Officers’ Basic
Course at Fort Benning, Ga.

 

MR. AND MRS. DONALD J. LINEBACK, ’66,
a third daughter, Elizabeth Ward, on June 29,
1988. Lineback is dean of development at Rhodes
College in Memphis, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. GALEN E. ANDERSEN, ’67,
ason, Geoffrey James, on June 6, 1988. Andersen
is employed with the Nokota Co. in Bismarck,
N.D.

MR. AND MRS. RUFUS D. KINNEY, ’69, a son,
Bryan William, on May 12, 1988, in Jacksonville,
Ala.

DR. AND MRS. MARVIN M. BROOKE, ’71, a
daughter, Kaitlin, on Feb. 10, 1988. Brooke is on
the staff in the department of rehabilitation
medicine at the University of Washington in
Seattle.

MR. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER HARRIS, ’74,
a son, Matthew Robert, on July 11, 1988. He join-
ed a sister, Jessica. Harris is a partner with the
Nashville, Tenn., law firm of Boult, Cummings,
Conners & Berry. |

MR. AND MRS. STUART RAGLAND III, ’74,
a daughter, Elizabeth Jackson, on March 21, 1988.
Ragland is associated with American Properties,
a broker and developer of land and custom homes
in Howard County, Md.

MR. AND MRS. RAYMOND RHEAULT, ’75,
a third daughter, Victoria Marie, on March 13,
1988. She joined sisters Kathryn, 4, and Anita, 15.
The family lives in Bowie, Md.

MR. AND MRS. OLIVER H. TIMMINS, ’75, a
daughter, Catherine Elizabeth, on April 14, 1988.

 

  

°76, a son, Tyler Gilbert, on April 10, 1988, in
Jacksonville, Fla. In July the family relocated to
Bethlehem, Pa., where Seldromridge joined a
private practice of oral and maxillofacial surgery.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM A. WALLACE, ’76,
a daughter, Sarah Breckinridge, on Sept. 6, 1988.
The family lives in Oak Park, IIl.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID C. WARREN, ’76, a
son, Daniel Gillette, on April 28, 1988. The fami-
ly lives in Christiansburg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. CAMILLUS L. AVENT, ’77,
ason, Camillus L’Engle Jr., on July 10, 1988. He
joined an 18-month-old sister, Caroline. The fami-
ly lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. THEODORE J. VAN LEER,
°77, a daughter, Elizabeth Marshall, on Aug. 17,
1988. The family lives in Glen Ridge, N.J.

DR. AND MRS. STEVEN B. HEIRD, ’78, a son,
William Buchman, on Jan. 9, 1988. Heird began
a chief surgical residency at York Hospital in York,
Pa., on July 1.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES N. LYNN, ’78, a
daughter, Katherine Marie, on May 21, 1988. Lynn
is a manager of the corporate communications
department at McCormick & Co. in Baltimore.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN C. YEAKEL, ’78, a
son, Joseph Richard, on Feb. 9, 1988. He joined
a sister, Katherine. Yeakel managed the victorious
campaign of Stan Stephens, a candidate in the
June 7 Montana GOP gubernatorial primary, and ©
also directed Stephens’ fall campaign. He was
elected to the board of the Helena Symphony
Society in May and is active with several vocal
music groups in the Helena area.

MR. AND MRS. CARY G. BOOTH, ’80, of Nor-
folk, Va., a son, Richard Whitaker (Whit), on
June 8, 1988.

MR. AND MRS. LESLIE A. COTTER JR., ’80,
a daughter, Caroline Reeves, on June 15, 1988.
Cotter is a trial attorney with the firm of Richard-
son, Plowden, Grier & Howser in Columbia, S.C.

SALLY PRUETT FALCK,’80, and DAVID P.
FALCK, ’78L, a third child, Charles Pruett, on
March 29, 1988. The family lives in Ridgewood,
N.J.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS A. LISK, ’80, a
daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on June 29, 1988, in
Richmond. Lisk is associated with the law firm of
Hazel, Thomas, Fiske, Beckhorn & Hanes.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM W. PAXTON, ’80,
a son, William Winfree Jr., on April 30, 1988.
Paxton is on a company assignment with Prentiss
Properties Ltd. in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE D. VERMILYA JR.,
°80, a son, George Douglas III, on June

 

98
Outstanding Commitment to Teaching Award b
the university’s National Alumni Association.

MR. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER F.
MENEFEE, ’81, a son, Nicholas Frost, on July
11, 1988, in Atlanta.

ANNE SCOTT PORTER, ’81, and PAUL
PORTER, ’81, a second son, Edward Christian,
on May 19, 1988. She is employed in the law
department of Kerr-McGee in Oklahoma City.

MR. AND MRS. W. CURRIN SNIPES JR., ’81,
a daughter, Malcolm Meriwether, on July 7, 1988,
in Galveston, Texas. Snipes is Gulf Coast bureau
chief for KHOU-TV, the CBS affiliate in Houston.

MR. AND MRS. ERIC H. BURNS, ’82, a son,
Alexander Hyman, on June 25, 1988. Burns is a
partner in the Lafayette, Ind., law firm of Han-
na, Gerde & Burns.

MR. AND MRS. FEVA PING WAH LAI, ’82,
a son, Chung Ki, on April 25, 1988. Lai is an ex-
port marketing manager with Tse Sui Luen
Jewellery Co. Ltd. in Hong Kong.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN E. FOWLER, ’82, a
daughter, Mary Louise, on March 29, 1988.
Fowler is a database analyst with Mast Industries
in Andover, Mass.

MR. AND MRS. EHRICK K. HAIGHT JR., ’82,
a daughter, Elizabeth Marguerite, on June 5, 1988,
on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

CHERYL L. NIKONOVICH-KAHN, ’82, and
RICHARD J. NIKONOVICH-KAHN, ’82, a son,
Zachariah Daniel, on March 29, 1988. The fami-
ly lives in Atlanta, where Richard is an assistant
counsel with A. L. Williams and Cheryl is
employed with the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services.

MR. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER B. (KIP)
POWER, ’83, a daughter, Kathleen Patricia, on
May 13, 1988. Power is associated with the law
firm of Robinson & McElwee in Charleston,
W.Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN L. CARPENTER, ’84,
twin sons, Scott Lindemann and Robert Olds, on
July 19, 1988. Carpenter is an attorney in
Portland, Maine.

CYNTHIA ENGELS NELSON, ’84, and KEVIN
A. NELSON, ’83L, a daughter, Kelsey Elisabeth,
on May 26, 1988, in Charleston, W.Va.

REBECCA NICHOLS JOHNSON, ’85, and
WILLIAM P. JOHNSON, ’85, a daughter, Laura
Anne, on April 7, 1988. The Johnsons practice law
with the firm of Hinkle, Cox, Eaton, Coffield &
Hensley in Roswell, N.M.

HYLA FLAKS CRANE, ’87, and Richard Crane,
a daughter, Eryn Becket, on July 11, 1988. The
family lives in New Haven, Conn.

In Mem

sre

WILLIAM ERSKINE JOHNSTON, ’20, a retired
director of sales for Amstar Corp. who lived in
Covington, La., died June 16, 1988. After spend-
ing two years as an instructor at the Randolph-
Macon Academy in Front Royal, Va., Johnston
joined the sales department at the American Sugar
Refining Co. in Baltimore. In 1930, he became
assistant sales manager at the company’s office in
New York City. He moved to Boston in 1943,
when he became a sales manager for the company.
He was appointed sales manager of the Southern
Sales District in 1947 and moved to the company

 

Rutherford and volunteered with the local police
force. He served the Rutherford Presbyterian
Church as chairman of its board of deacons and
as elder for 30 years. He was a member of W&L’s
Alumni Board of Directors and held every office
of the New York alumni chapter. He received the
Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1977.

GEORGE HENRY BOWERS JR., ’23, a retired
foreman for the Du Pont Co. in Philadelphia, died
on Aug. 25, 1988. He spent 37 years with the com-
pany before retiring in 1963. During his lifetime,
he was active with the Sons of the American

 

after the 65th birthday:

issues.)

 

Planned Giving for Retirement

Sound like a contradiction in terms? Not necessarily.

The 1986 tax law took away the $2,000 IRA deduction for those with employer
retirement plans and annual income above a certain level ($25,000 single/$40,000 mar-
ried). It also imposed stricter limitations on deductions for Keogh and 401(k) plans.

But there’s a type of retirement planning that allows you to contribute an unlimited
amount in any year, take a deduction for a substantial percentage of the contribu-
tion, and provide for an annuity beginning at retirement (any age you specify). It’s
called a deferred gift annuity. The deduction may be almost 90 percent of the con-
tribution in some cases. It is allowed because a portion is treated as a gift to W&L.

The following table shows deductions and annuities for gifts of $10,000 at cer-
tain ages, with annuities payable in semiannual installments beginnning six months

Age Deduction* Annuity

45 $8,741 (87.41%) $1,610 (16.1%)
50 $8,221 (82.21%) $1,320 (13.2%)
55 $7,549 (75.49%) $1,080 (10.8%)

Obviously the annuity amounts and percentages are higher than for immediate
gift annuities because of accruals during the deferral period. But the deferral also
increases the deduction and thus decreases the net cost of the gift. For example, at
age 50 the $8,221 deduction in a 28 percent bracket reduces the net cost of the gift
by $2,301. By deferring the annuity for 15 years, the donor receives an annuity of
$ 1,320 for a net original outlay of $7,699, or 17.1 percent. And the net original outlay
will be recouped in less than six years after payment begins.

You may also continue the annuity for the life of a surviving spouse with a reduced
deduction and annuity. And you may fund the annuity with appreciated property
without incurring immediate lump-sum capital gain tax. The Development Office can
provide a computation tailored to your precise circumstances and objectives.

For additional information about this or other planned gifts, contact David R.
Long, Director of Planned Giving, at (703) 463-8425.

(This is the first of a series of articles on planned giving that will appear in future

*Based on current IRS guidelines that are subject to change

Milburn K. Noell Jr., ’51, ’54L

 

 

W&L 49

 

DIGBY CLARKE WEST, ’26, of Berryville, Ark.,
died Aug. 11, 1988. After earning a bachelor’s
degree in commerce, he joined First National Bank
of Berryville and served the bank as cashier, vice
president, president, and chairman of the board.
He retired in 1984. West was a past president of
the Arkansas Bankers’ Association and was a
member of the American Bankers’ Association and
the Independent Bankers’ Association. He serv-
ed on the Arkansas Industrial Development Com-
mittee, the State Bank Commission, and the board
of trustees of Arkansas State Teachers’ College
(now the University of Central Arkansas). He was
also on the local school board and city council and
was a member of the Berryville Chamber of Com-
merce, the Lions Club, and the Rotary Club. As
a member of the First Christian Church, he serv-
ed as elder and trustee. West, a member of the
Robert E. Lee Associates, was a W&L class agent
for three years during the 1970s.

WILTON MAYS GARRISON, ’28, former sports
editor for The Charlotte Observer, died Aug. 22,
1988. After studying journalism and serving as
editor of the Ring-tum Phi at W&L, he became
sports editor for the Spartanburg (S.C.) Herald.
In 1936, he accepted a position as assistant sports
editor of the Charlotte newspaper and retired as
sports editor in 1967. Garrison was named North
Carolina Sports Writer of the Year in 1961 and
was the Carolinas Golfer of the Year in 1967. He
was a lifetime member of the Golf Writers Associa-
tion of America and the Football Writers Associa-
tion of America. He was also a member of the
Covenant Presbyterian Church.

GALE BLACKWELL HALEY, ’29, a retired elec-
trical engineer from Richmond who spent 42 years
with C&P Telephone Co., died July 4, 1988. He
joined the telephone company as a student and
worked in Washington, D.C., and Roanoke in
various capacities before joining the Richmond
staff. During his career, he was a member of the
Telephone Pioneers of America. Haley was also
active with the Reveille United Methodist Church.

DR. LANG FLOYD HOLLAND, ’30, of Austin,
Texas, died June 1, 1988. After attending W&L
for two years, he transferred to Mercer Universi-
ty in Florida and later graduated from Tulane
Medical School. After an internship at Jersey Ci-
ty Medical Center in New Jersey and a residency
at Charity Hospital in New Orleans, he establish-
ed a medical practice in Austin, where he also
organized clinics for tuberculosis, allergies, and
diabetes through Brackenridge Hospital. He served
as director of the Allergy Clinic for 22 years and
as director of the Diabetic Clinic for 32 years. Be-
tween 1946 and 1976, he served as school physi-
cian of the Brackenridge Hospital School of Nurs-
ing. He was also medical adviser to the Selective
Service for 15 years. At the time of his death,
Holland was a member of the Hyde Park Baptist
Church.

500 W&L

the Washington County Hospital Auxiliary. He
was a member of the Christ Reformed Church and
served on the consistory and other church groups.

THOMAS BURNS DUNCAN III,
Louisville, Ky., died on Jan. 20, 1988.

"32, of

DR. HUNTER BERNARD FRISCHKORN JR.,
°32, a retired radiologist from Richmond, died
May 26, 1988. He attended Randolph-Macon Col-
lege before spending a year at W&L during the
1930-31 academic year. In 1935, he earned a
medical degree from the Medical College of
Virginia. Frischkorn was a doctor for the
American Tobacco Co. and a staff member at
Stuart Circle, Retreat, Sheltering Arms, and the
former St. Elizabeth’s and Grace hospitals. His
medical specialty was roentgenology, a branch of
radiology that deals with the use of roentgen rays
for diagnosis and treatment. He was a diplomate
of the American Board of Roentgenology and a
member of the Radiological Society of North
America, the American Roentgen Ray Society, and
the Virginia Radiological Society. He was also a
member of the First Presbyterian Church.

WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON WERTZ, ’33,
whose 52-year law career included a six-year term
as Wayne County (Ohio) Common Pleas judge,
died at his home in Wooster, Ohio, on July 11,
1988. After his graduation from W&L, he earned
a law degree from National University (now
George Washington University) and joined his
father’s law practice. He worked with the Legal
Aid Society for the last four years of his life. Wertz
served a two-year term as national president of the
Izaak Walton League of America and was a guber-
natorial appointee to the Ohio Advisory Council
of the Great Lakes Fishery Committee, the Ad-
visory Committee on Water Planning of the In-
dustrial and Economic Development Commission
of Ohio, the Water Management Advisory Council
of the Ohio Water Commission, the Ohio Depart-
ment of Natural Resources’ Recreation and
Resources Commission, and the Governor’s Com-
mission on Ohioans Outdoors. He was active in
the Boy Scouts of America, the American Legion,
and the Wooster Shrine Club, was a director of
the Sport Fishing Institute, and served on the ex-
ecutive committee of Killbuck Wildlife Council
and the Wayne County Control Advisory
Committee.

ALBERT MEINTZ FOWLER, ’34, a retired at-
torney from Belleville, Ill., died Aug. 21, 1988.
After earning a law degree from W&L, he served
as a manager of East Bell Coal Co. for two years.
In 1936, he became secretary and manager of
Belleville Hotel Co. He stayed with the hotel com-
pany until 1949, with the exception of two years’
service as a supply officer in the U.S. Navy. He
later became owner of Fairmont Hotel in Col-
linsville, Ill., where he also practiced law. During
his career, Fowler was a member of the Belleville
Elks, the American Bar Association, the Sons of

in Pittsburgh. When the company closed in 1962,
he opened the Fred L. Fox Co. and worked as a
manufacturers’ representative for specialty steel
products. He retired at the age of 73. Fox was a
member of the Westminster Presbyterian Church.

HERBERT ERNEST FENNER JR., ’37, of
Dallas died Aug. 31, 1988. After his graduation
from W&L, he accepted a position as internal
auditor for the Farm Credit Administration. Be-
tween 1942 and 1943, Fenner worked as an ex-
ecutive accountant in Africa with the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Co. He then spent two years with the
company in India. In 1945, he became an auditor
with General Motors Corp. and worked in Orange,
N.J., and Detroit before leaving the company in
1950, when he became secretary-treasurer of John
Hine Leasing Co. in Dallas. He later worked as
office manager for Don Davis Oldsmobile Inc. in
Arlington, Texas.

WILLIAM ELLETT HOGE, ’37, of Blacksburg,
Va., died Aug. 5, 1988. After earning a bachelor’s
degree in commerce from W&L, he worked for
Reynolds Aluminum in Louisville, Ky., and retired
in 1950 after serving as executive assistant in charge
of production. He moved to Georgia and worked
with the Metal Arts Co. in Atlanta and later with
General Medical Supply Corp. of Decatur before
moving to Blacksburg. At the time of his death,
he was a member of Christ Episcopal Church.

PHILLIP SIBLEY JONES, ’37, and his wife,
Patricia, of Little River, S.C., were killed in an
automobile accident on June 30, 1988. Jones left
W&L in 1935 to work in sales, marketing, and
operations for New York, New Haven, and Hart-
ford Railroad. Between 1958 and 1968, he was
passenger traffic manager at Grand Central Ter-
minal in New York City. In 1969, he became
manager of customer services with Penn Central
Railroad at Penn Station in New York. He join-
ed Amtrak in 1972 and held a number of positions
in the New York eastern region before retiring in
1980 as manager of customer services. Seven years
ago, the Joneses moved to Windjammer Village
in North Myrtle Beach, where they were members
of St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church.

ALBERT FOSTER, ’39, a retired attorney from
McConnellsburg, Pa., died Feb. 3, 1988. After
earning a bachelor’s degree from Pennsylvania
State College in 1936, Foster received his law
degree from W&L. He practiced law in State Col-
lege, Pa., from 1939 until 1942, when he began
service in the Counter Intelligence Corps of the
U.S. Army. In 1946, he moved to McCon-
nellsburg, where he practiced law until retiring in
1978. During his career, he served as Fulton Coun-
ty district attorney, Fulton County solicitor,
McConnellsburg borough solicitor, and solicitor
for the Forbes Road, Southern Fulton, and Cen-
tral Fulton school districts. He was also solicitor
for McConnellsburg Borough Municipal Authori-
ty, Southern Fulton School Authority, and Nor-

  

Hospital. He also served more chai 20 seats on
the medical staff of the Atlantic Coast Line
Railway System and the Southern Railway System.
He was a charter member of the South Carolina
Medical Association ‘‘Doctor of the Day’’ pro-
gram for the state legislature and served on at least
seven of the association’s committees. In addition,
Baker was active with two local Boy Scout troops
and served on the Newberry County Development
Board, the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, and the Rotary Club.

JOHN SHERMAN (SKIP) HENDERSON JR.,
41, retired president of the Henderson Co.,
Henderson Homes Inc., GHK Co. Inc., and GHK
Sewerage Co. Inc. in Louisville, Ky., died Aug.
10, 1988. While a sophomore at W&L, he was one
of the three leading lacrosse scorers in the nation.
After earning a bachelor’s degree in commerce,
he worked as a salesman for Marchant Calculators
and later for Premier Auto Supply Co. in
Cleveland. During World War II, he was a lieute-
nant colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps, serving in
Guadalcanal and Saipan. He retired from the
reserves as a lieutenant colonel in 1961. In 1948,
he became automotive sales manager for Bowman
Products Co. and later worked as sales manager
for Nelson Testing Machine Co., Kitchen Craft
Corp., and Bollinger & Martin Realtors before
serving as president of Meadows Development Co.
in Louisville. In 1968, he and his family established
the Henderson Co., a real estate agency. The fami-
ly later started businesses in home construction and
land development. During his career, Henderson
was active with the Louisville Board of Realtors
and the local Home Builders Association. He was
a member of St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church in
Louisville.

FRANK FREDERICK SOCHA, ’43, a retired
teacher and coach who worked 20 years in the
Palos Verdes Unified School District in Califor-
nia, died Dec. 7, 1987, in Daytona Beach, Fla.
After attending W&L for three years, he joined
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and served as
a first lieutenant. Having served overseas from
1944 to 1946, he returned to W&L and earned a
bachelor’s degree in 1947. After graduation, Socha
became a history instructor and football coach at
Staunton Military Academy in Virginia. After two
years, he returned to his hometown of Garfield,
N.J., to teach and coach football and track. In
1963, he became employed with the Palos Verdes
Unified School District. He retired in 1982.

RICHARD CARLETON EGLIN, ’44, a longtime
accountant with the CPA firm of Gaston & Co.
in Shreveport, La., died July 9, 1988. After three
years at W&L, he joined the U.S. Air Force and
served as a staff sergeant in Saipan. After the war,
he spent a year at Tulane University, where he
earned a degree in business administration. Eglin
was a member and former vestryman of the
Church of the Holy Cross, Episcopal, in
Shreveport.

of contracts, general counsel, assistant general
manager for administration, and vice president
before retiring after 20 years. During his career,
Verano served as a consultant and secretary of the
Comarco Corp. in Anaheim. He was a member
of the board of directors of the Pomona Chamber
of Commerce and Casa Colina Hospital. He had
also served as a director for the Crippled
Children’s Society in Los Angeles. He was a
member of the Claremont United Church of
Christ, Congregational.

VICTOR EMANUEL BEHRENS JR., ’52, of
Abilene, Texas, died July 13, 1988. At W&L he
was art editor of the Calyx and Southern Col-
legian. Following graduation he served two years
in the U.S. Navy as a second lieutenant during the
Korean War. After the war, he worked in adver-
tising with the Dallas Times Herald and then as
a life insurance agent with Behrens & Behrens, a
family estate planning firm in Abilene. He later
worked a year as an assistant account executive
with Bloom Advertising. In 1962, he enrolled at
the Arts Center School in Los Angeles, studying
art and advertising design and earning a bachelor
of professional arts degree in 1964. He served as
art director with Lennen & Newell Advertising in
New York City until 1968, when he became art
director for William Esty Inc. He returned to
Abilene in 1980 to work with his father as a life
insurance agent. He was a former president of the
Abilene Fine Arts Museum, a member of the
Abilene Philharmonic Board, and a member of the
faculty at McMurry College, where he taught
courses in creative advertising and design. Behrens
was a eucharistic minister and member of the
church parish council at Sacred Heart Catholic
Church.

BERNARD SIGFRIED STEINER JR., ’54, the
fourth-generation president of Steiner Bank in Bir-
mingham, Ala., died Aug. 21, 1988. After earn-
ing a bachelor’s degree in commerce, he returned
to Birmingham to work at his family’s bank. Be-
tween 1955 and 1957, he served as a lieutenant in
the U.S. Army Transportation Corps. He return-
ed to Steiner Bank after his military service and
was named president in 1974. He also was presi-
dent of Guardian Realty Co. and vice president
of Cullman Property Co. Steiner was a member
of the Young Men’s Business Club and served on
the boards of the Alabama Symphony, the Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews, and
Highlands Day School. He was a member of Tem-
ple Emanu-El.

WILLIAM BOYD CLOPTON, ’55, former
fashion designer, multimedia producer, and
painter, died Feb. 9, 1988, in Los Angeles. After
attending W&L for two years, Clopton enrolled
at the University of Richmond and received a
bachelor of fine arts degree in 1955. He also
studied design techniques and cinematography at
the Trade Technical College in Los Angeles and
the University of Southern California. In 1962 he

 
   
  
    

HAL ALLEN HAMILTON, ’55, general super-
visor, human resources, and production engineer
for Armco Steel Corp. in Zanesville, Ohio, died
May 6, 1988. After earning a bachelor’s degree in
commerce from W&L, he served as a captain with
the U.S. Army as a pilot and instructor until 1959,
when he joined Armco. He worked in Butler, Pa.,
until 1974, when he moved to Zanesville. While
living in Butler, he was chairman of the Butler
County Park and Recreation Commission and a
member of the Butler Human Relations Commis-
sion and was appointed to the Butler County Merit
Personnel Council in 1969, when he also was
named Butler Area Junior Man of the Year. In
Zanesville, he was a trustee of the United Way,
president of the board of trustees of the YMCA,
a member of the Rotary Club, chairman of the
Starlight Levy Committee, chairman of the Musk-
ingum County Private Industry Council, a charter
member of the Alcohol Treatment Advisory Coun-
cil of Good Samaritan Medical Center, and a
member of the Chamber of Commerce. Hamilton
was a former vestryman of St. Peter’s Episcopal
Church in Zanesville.

SCOTT PARKER PEACE, ’64, a real estate ap-
praiser for S.T. Peace Co. Inc. in Henderson,
N.C., died Aug. 16, 1988. After attending W&L
for one year, Peace continued his studies at the
University of Georgia, where he earned a
bachelor’s degree in 1965. He also was a graduate
of the North Carolina Realtors Institute and the
North Carolina Homebuilders Institute. During his
career, he was chairman of the Vance County
Republican Party, president of the Kerr Lake
Board of Realtors, and chairman of the local Small
Business Commission and the Vance County
Historical Society. He was a member of First
United Methodist Church.

JAMES CRAWFORD FOREMAN, ’78, of Atlan-
ta died Aug. 9, 1988. A Robert E. Lee Research
Scholar and Fancy Dress Ball coordinator while
at W&L, Foreman had been employed with the
advertising agency of J. Walter Thompson Co.
since 1978. He worked as a media biller and later
as a financial analyst.

JAMES S. BENNETT, ’89, of New York City
died on July 31, 1988. A graduate of Riverdale
Country School in Riverdale, N.Y., Bennett was
a politics and history major at W&L. He was ac-
tive with the track team and was a member of
Sigma Chi social fraternity.

 

FRANCES MOORE DENNY died in Lex-
ington on Nov. 9, 1988. She was the daughter of
the late George H. Denny, who was president of
Washington and Lee from 1901 to 1911.

W&L 51

st at ae aramount Pie

ranklin, Lily T Tonia, a : a
fevie Wonder, ‘and _
Between i972and
yf Hix ees The Sse

 

James Boatwright III, 1933-1988

 

James Boatwright III, professor of English
at Washington and Lee since 1960 and editor
of Shenandoah, The Washington and Lee
University Review, died Sept. 25 in Key West,
Fla. He had been on leave from the Universi-
ty since June 1987.

A native of Augusta, Ga., Boatwright
received both bachelor’s and master’s degrees
from the University of Georgia. He also did
graduate study at Duke University from 1956
to 1960 and was a part-time instructor there.

Boatwright became editor of Shenandoah
in 1962. During his tenure, the magazine
published works by such well-known authors
as Alice Adams, W. H. Auden, Raymond
Carver, James Merrill, Joyce Carol Oates,

Reynolds Price, Allen Tate, and Peter Taylor.
Stories included in Shenandoah regularly ap-
pear in the annual O. Henry short story col-
lections, the Best American Short Stories
volume, and the annual Pushcart Prize: Best
of the Small Presses Anthology.

“It is thrilling to see the way in which
Shenandoah has succeeded in sustaining a sym-
pathetic home for writers at different times in
their development, writers, both adversarial
and of the establishment, who represent the
richest strains of literary life,’’ wrote Daniel
Stern in a New York Times review of the 1985
anthology celebrating the 35th anniversary of
Shenandoah’s founding.

Boatwright was a former member of the
Coordinating Council of Literary Magazines
and received a fellowship from that organiza-
tion in 1979. He was a member of the advisory
panel of the literature program for the National
Endowment for the Arts, the advisory panel
of the Virginia Commission on the Arts, and
the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts. He
also served as a judge for fiction for the Na-
tional Book Awards in 1973.

At Washington and Lee, Boatwright taught
creative writing, Shakespeare, modern British
and American poetry and literature, and nar-

rative. He was a member of the Glasgow Com-
mittee, which sponsors the visits of prominent
literary figures to the W&L campus.

At its November meeting the Washington
and Lee faculty adopted the following resolu-
tion in tribute to Boatwright:

Our colleague and friend, Jim Boatwright,
has died not quite two years after learning that
he was infected with the AIDS virus. The virus
consumed his body with ever-increasing rapidi-
ty. In the final weeks of his life, he was
unrecognizable to his friends, except by his
voice. The physical voice had become faint and
wavering, but the sentences were Jim’s—well-
formed and brilliant. In the end, the voice was
less than a whisper. Those who were with him
then tell of the sweetness of Jim’s death. Hope,
the source of his speech, never left him; the
disease never took that.

To his friends, remembering Jim is, more
than anything, remembering the moments of
his speech—its rightness, honesty, and
generosity, its trusting, responsive wit. Jim
could, like most of us, envy someone else’s
good fortune but never their good work. He
fostered this in his students, in his friends, and,
through Shenandoah, the magazine he brought
to national prominence, in strangers.

 

 

 

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

Since my graduation I have been aware that
the cover of the magazine of my alma mater pro-
vokes an emotional response as it emerges from
the stack of newspapers, catalogs, junk mail, bills,
and requests for donations in my mailbox. This
time, when I saw the admittedly attractive cover
photo showing four young women performing a
flute sonata [August 1988 Alumni Magazine], my
involuntary reaction was, ‘‘Oh my God, the
Washington and Lee I knew is really gone...
forever.”’

In 1984, when the controversy over coeduca-
tion at W&L was raging full force, I was alternately
disgusted and amused at some of the inanities and
raw expressions of uninformed male chauvinism
in many of the letters that were sent. Although I
was not myself in favor of coeducation at the
University, I thought long and hard about the issue
and wrote my own, entirely too long letter, which
the staff graciously printed in its entirety in the
September/October 1984 issue. That letter defer-
red to the wisdom of those closest to the situation
and called for reconciliation and a positive attitude
toward change.

It called for graceful and gradual evolution into
the 21st century. However, in one stroke (and, I
admit, on a purely emotional level), the present
cover represents revolution and an eradication of
the University most of us who read the magazine
remember. On an intellectual level, I realize it is
merely a misrepresentation of the whole through

52. W&L

Letters to the Editor

 

the choice of a single image which is associated
in the regrettably aging frame of reference of most
of us more with the surrounding women’s colleges
than with our own University.

It seems to me that a version of the picture
which appeared on page 22 of the Alumni
Magazine, shot in color and showing crowds of
male and female students and faculty gathered in
the foreground to celebrate the dedication of the
beautiful new Gaines Hall would have served as
a far more relevant cover to any reader of the
magazine, whether one of the ‘‘Old Guard’’ who
remembers the W&L of the 1930s, or any student
currently enrolled there.

The photo which did run on the cover should
have appeared inside with the article as an attrac-
tive footnote to the main event, which was the
building itself, paid for in large part by many of
those ‘‘chauvinistic’’ individuals who are all too
easily forgotten in the rush to change things.

So, please be not unmindful of your present
demographics!

PETER J. STELLING, ’65
Atlanta, Ga.

EDITOR:

In recent issues of the alumni publications of
my fraternity [Lambda Chi Alpha] and my alma
mater, I note with pride the addressing of current
topics in a timely and efficient manner.

The educational blitzes by each on the presence
and effect of date rape and AIDS can help to

stamp out or at least alleviate the effects of each.

My congratulations on your handling of these

subjects in order to make our world a little safer
and more pleasant.

J. ALAN Cross Jr., 51

Coral Gables, Fla.

EDITOR:

Thank you for printing the letters written by
Karl M. Funkhouser and Dudley B. Thomas
regarding the boycott of the Fancy Dress Ball
(‘And Furthermore,’ August 1988 Alumni
Magazine.) By their own words they clearly prove
Rosalyn Thompson’s point. A reconciliation never
occurred! Both letters are outrageous.

The Civil War and Reconstruction preceded a
period in Southern history called Redemption.
During Redemption white Southerners achieved
home rule and they effectively circumvented the
14th and 15th Amendments through violence and
Jim Crow laws that were as inhumane as slavery.
The plight of hundreds of blacks who were lynch-
ed is comparable to the horror of the ‘‘Trail of
Tears.”’

Mr. Thomas suggested that black students
enroll en masse in the history department. As a
black W&L alumnus with a major in American
history, I heartily agree. My W&L education in
American history provides intellectual defense
against bigoted perversions of history.

THEODORE C. DELANEY, ’85
Williamsburg, Va.

 

It’s
time
OV

Sift gwing.

 

 

 

   

 

 

= ceases

A1 Royal Windyne lamp, 22°’ high in A2 Our own clock by Bill Cooper '76, in solid
solid brass with the University Crest and hand-rubbed cherry with American-made quartz
our Wordmark in gold on the black shade. movement (AA battery provided). 10 %s’ wide,
The lamp will be shipped to you from the 201,’ high, 3%’’ deep, to hang or place on mantel

 

 

 

manufacturer. $129.00. or table. Shipped to you from manufacturer. Money-
back guarantee, of course. $149.95.
A4 Write or call A5_ The classic
us for information 12-ounce highball
on a college ring. w/crest in red & blue.
We are proud of | 12 0z. Set of six
our rings which $18.00.

 
  
 

Carved and
Josten’s. Choose a
ring in 10K, 14K or
18K.

  

Set of six $20.00.

Pig Ssates & Gee Deiverstt |

 

i
i.

 

 

 

 

 

$2.95.

 

 

fashioned glass, 14 oz.

A7 1¥%2 0z. shot glass
-= | with red and blue crest.

 

A3 Signed photographic print of a misty
fall morning by W. Patrick Hinely °72. Im-
age size is 10%2’’ x 15%%4’’ on double-
weight 16'’x20’’ paper, archivally pro-
cessed, Suitable for framing. In protective
packing. $100.00.

A8 Our own
watch! Four-color
crest on watch
face. Quartz move-
Fi ment, leather band.
‘| One year warranty.
$35.95.

’

 

 

 

 

«WASHINGTON & LEE

wot

INGTONAaND! ic]

UNIVERSITY)

 

 

 

 

 

B1 NEW! Rugby shirt by WOLF. Navy
and white stripe in 109% combed cotton,
knit collar. S, M, L, XL. $42.95.

B2 Ladies’ sweatshirt by LONG JOHN.
50/50 polyester/cotton. Pink, white or
blue. S, M, L, XL,. $24.95.

B3 Pants to match. Waistband with two
pockets. Pink, white or blue. S, M, L,
XL. $24.95.

B4 WA&L Law T-shirt by WOLF in 100%
cotton, navy only. S, M, L, XL. $9.50.

B5 NEW! Shirt from VELVA SHEEN.
100% cotton. Your choice of royal, pink
or coral with white imorint or white with
navy imprint. S, M, L, XL. $9.95.

B6 Child’s shirt from VELVA SHEEN in
50/50 polyester/cotton. Choice of
raspberry or robin’s egg blue with white
imprint or navy with white. S (6-8), M
(10-12), L (14-16). $6.95.

B7 Our new ‘‘Dubyuhnell’’ shirt (say it
out loud) by WOLF, 100% cotton. White
only. S, M, L, XL. $14.95.

B8 Twill hat by KOZA’S. Your choice of
white, navy or royal with contrasting em-
broidery. Adjustable strap. $8.95.

 

- B10 B11 B® OB12

WASEONGT ON ———.
SCHOOL OF LAW

WASHINGTONANDLEI

 

B13

B.

¢ @WASHINGTONANDLEF
|

 

UNIVERSITY

 

 

aah

B14

CIRALS

Hy

Hh,

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
   

a

“ny

DUBYUENEL

B9 Corduroy hat from KTW. Your choice
of white, navy or royal with contrasting
emboidery. Adjustable strap. $8.95.

B10 Law school decal. Inside use. $.75.

B11 The crest in full color, trimmed in
24 karat gold. Specify inside or outside
application. $1.95.

B12 Circals, 24 miniature crest stickers.
$.99.

B13  W&L’s new Wordmark in navy or
white. Your choice of inside or outside ap-
plication. $.98.

B14 Bumper sticker—the new Wordmark
and the Mink. $.79.

B15 ‘‘Genuine Mink’’ Boxer shorts.
100% cotton, in sizes 30, 32, 34, 26,
38, 40. $11.95.

B16 Counted cross stitch — The W&L
crest. Kit includes fabric, instructions and
embroidery floss. $9.99.

B17 Needlepoint kit — The Colonnade in
14°’x14"’. 100% wool yarn included.
$29.95.

B18 Needlepoint of the crest. 100%
wool yarn included. Finished size
12’’x16"’. $29.95.

 

‘B16

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C1 Just for MOM! Super heavyweight
100% cotton T-shirt. White only with red
heart, navy imprint. S, M, L, XL. $10.95.

C2. Golf shirt by VELVA SHEEN with red
and blue embroidery. Knit collar. 100% cot-
ton. S, M, L, XL. $26.95.

C3 JANSPORT sweatshirt in 50/50

polyester/cotton. Navy. S, M, L, XL. $23.95.

C4 Our heaviest sweatshirt — the reverse
weave by CHAMPION. 80/8/3 cot-
ton/acrylic/rayon. Grey only. These are
huge! S, M, L, XL. $34.95.

C5 Sweatpants from CHAMPION in that
reverse weave. S, M, L, XL. $25.95.

C6 Sweatshorts from CHAMPION in that
reverse weave. S, M, L, XL. $19.95.

C7 Men's bow tie in navy with white ab-
breviated Wordmark. All silk face. $22.95.

C8 NEW! Ladies’ soft bow tie in navy with
white. All silk face. $22.95.

C9 NEW! Men’s tie in all silk, navy with
white. $22.95.

C10 Ceramic mug in white with lid to keep
coffee hot. $7.95.

C11 The classic college mug. 12 0z., 5’’
high. Two color crest. $11.95.

C12 W&L colonnade mug in white ceramic
with blue and gold trim. $5.95.

C13 1202. ironstone mug with the new abbre-

viated Wordmark. Dark blue or white. $6.50.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

  

   

C14 Disposable partyware, clear plastic, 25
to a sleeve. $5.50.

C15 Grain cups — 5 for $3.20.

C16 Disposable partyware, white plastic, 50
to a sleeve. $8.95.

C17 Parent Pak — ceramic mug, lucite key
tag and decal. $7.50.

C18 Generous (36’’x70'’) Bath sheet in
100% cotton. Ribbon applique. Your choice
of white, navy or grey — Ribbon trim will be
the other two colors. $33.95.

C19 Men’s bath wrap in 100% cotton with
velcro closure. Navy with grey and white ribbon
trim, or white with grey and navy trim. $29.95.

C20 Ladies’ bath wrap in 100% cotton with
velcro closure. White trimmed in blue and
grey ribbon and white lace, or blue trimmed
in grey and white. $29.95.

C21 Blazer Buttons from Waterbury. 24K
gold-plated. Three coat buttons and six
sleeve buttons. $40.00.

C22 Embroidered patch in full color to sew
on your blazer. $3.98.

C23 Blazer crest in full color with silver and
gold bullion trim. Brass fasteners so crest is
removable. $29.95.

C24 The original German Pilsner. Imported
lead crystal with the crest in color, including
24K gold trim. $9.95.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ NO

BOOKS OF W&L INTEREST

(d) means 10% Alumni discount applicable.

(x) means no discount allowable.

D1 The Foreign Student by Phillipe Labro ‘58.
Bestseller in France, it fictionalizes Labro’s
year aS a W&L exchange student in the 50's
— ‘‘that campus that was so beautiful...my
first sight of it was like a kick in the heart.”’
$5.95 in English, (d). $22.95 in French, (x).
D2 Political Discourse by Lewis H. LaRue '59.
Professor LaRue looks back at the House
Judiciary Committee impeachment debate...

 

 

 

 

their focus on presidential lawlessness
obscured the central issues—breach of trust,
ethics and democracy itself. $20.00 cloth, (d).
$10.00 paper (qd).

D3 Bonfire of the Vanities by Tom Wolfe ‘51.
Bestseller since its publication last November,
Bonfire is ‘‘a brilliant evocation of New York's
class, racial and political structure in the
1980s’’ $19.95 cloth (d), $5.95 paper (dq),
audio cassette $14.95 (qd).

D4 Wizard at Large by Terry Brooks ‘69L.
While a practicing attorney, Brooks has written
bestseller novels including the Shannara trilogy.

wit. $17.95 cloth (d).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D7 Our own basketball backboard. Attaches
over the door, comes with ball. Some
assembly needed. $29.95.

D8 NEW! Banner from COLLEGIATE PACIFIC.
Wool felt. 36’’ long, 18’ high. $9.95.

D9 A folding umbrella, navy and white in
100% nylon. $10.95.

D10 From OVERLY STUDIOS — matted
print of pencil sketch. 12’’x16’’. $5.95.

D11 Box of 10 note cards and envelopes.
4’’x5Y%2"’ $3.50.

D12 3’’x5’’ navy blue memo box — a great
little gift. $2.35.

 

 

Still available:

cloth. (x).

 

 

D13 Walnut bookends, the pair $24.00.
D14 Coasters in oak and cork. Set of six.
$19.95.

D15 Letter opener in your choice of walnut
or oak. Metal blade. $5.50.

D16 Baby Bib. Terry cloth with crest in blue
and red. $4.95.

D17 The Big Bear — 10%’’, with sweater
and hat in blue and white. $19.95.

D18 The Little Bear — 7’’ with sweater and
hat. $14.95.

 

W&L UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE NAME:

 

LEXINGTON, VA 24450 ADDRESS

 

(703) 463-8633
Mon.-Fri. 8:00 a.m.- 4:00 p.m. CITY

STATE Z\P

 

DAY PHONE:

 

Item # ; Size

 

Please send no money with your
order aS prices can change
without warning. We will bill
you, adding UPS and sales tax

For orders over $5.00:

 

Charge Card Number:

VISA MASTERCARD

Exp. Date

 

 

 

where applicable. If you'd
rather order by phone or you

have a question, please callus. Signature

[TTT PTT TET TT ai

 

 

 
  
  
  
  
 

 

 

Wizard is a tale of magic,

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

Photos by Hinely

high adventure and

D5 Field Guide to the Chessie Nature Trail

by Rockbridge Area Conservation Council.
Dedicated to Professors Spencer ‘53, McGuire
and Lowrey. $14.95 paper (qd).

D6 At Twelve by Sally Mann, former W&L
photographer. Evocative photographs of adoles-
cent girls. $25.00 cloth (qd).

The W&L Book by William Strode. $35.00

The Lee Girls by Mary Coulling. $19.95 cloth. (d).
Lee: The Last Years by Charles B. Flood.
$15.95 cloth (d), $9.95 paper (qd).

General Lee’s College by Ollinger Crenshaw
(only a few remaining) $10.00 cloth (qd).

D1i9 NEW! W&L
Christmas orna-
ment. Three color
crest on white
Satin. $5.25.
Walnut stand to
hold your ornament
aS a display piece.
$4.50.

D20 Stocking
Stuffer — Three
pencils, an eraser
and pencil shar-
pener. $3.25.

D21 WAL golf
balls by Spalding.
Three to a pack.
$7.50.

Nov. 1988

 

.

ed a

_

OO

ee
oe

oO

a em ee ae ame

oe

—
ee ores

ae eer

met ee me pene ae pt mane

ae eee

tee

. : > >
oe i
fe oe - :

7

‘17-19 Atlantic
9-11 NCAA

=.

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY Non-Profit Org.

U.S. Postage
othe a PAID
]
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

