 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

MAY 1981

 

 

 

SSO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CF

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 56, Number 3, May 1981

William C. Washburn, °40 ................ cece eee eee ee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna .............. cece eee ee eee es Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, "80 ............ cece eee e eee e eee Assistant Editor
Joyc@ Carter’)... csc c cece eee dee ete weeee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73 ..............c cece eee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Woods Creek Gap .............cceecceee eee eee eee eee 1
‘Electronic Judge” .............ccececeeeeeeeeeeeneee ene eaees 8
The Game .......0.0 cece edeccceeccceneccosnssssevmagmennagings 10
Phi Beta Kappa Convocation ..............:sseeeeeeeeeees 13
Drinking at W&L oo... cece cece eee renee eee ee es 14
From Mound to Munich ................:seeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 16
WEL Gazette ......... ccc ceeeeee sence eens ee 17
Chapter News ..............cscceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeen een en eee es 23
Class Notes. ......0:..0c00ceclesei:ase ee re 25
In Memoriam ..........5.3-2.-.4.000 32

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc. |

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD Batn, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, "42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
OwEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RuSSELL LADD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
Joun H. MCCorRMACK Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr., 56, Crossett, Ark.

ON THE COVER: Washington Hall and Lewis Hall
linked by the Footbridge over Woods Creek—symbolic of
what some W&L observers perceive to be a widening gap
between the undergraduate school and the School of Law.
News Office Director Jeffery Hanna and Assistant Pub-
lications Director P. Craig Cornett, ’80, set out to
examine this issue from many angles. Their in-depth
report starts on Page 1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE WOODS CREEK GAP

How Wide is the Separation Between the Law School and the Undergraduate School?

IL, the fall of 1976, Washington and Lee’s School of
Law packed up its torts and its texts and moved, leaving the
cozy environs of Tucker Hall on W&L’s historic Colonnade
to take up residence in spacious, modern Lewis Hall.

The move created an obvious division—a physical one—
between the law school and the undergraduate school,
separated as they are by Woods Creek.

But now, five years after the move, some members of the
University community are concerned that this physical
separation has caused, or at least magnified, other divisions
and that there exist differences which simply cannot be
reconciled no matter how many footbridges span Woods
Creek to connect the schools.

Has there been a change? Or is it only imagined? Has the
relationship between the two schools been altered by the
relatively recent geographic separation? Or has there always
been an invisible, perhaps inevitable, line of demarcation? If,
as some argue, the relationship has changed, is that a

desirable change? And if it is not desirable, can anything be
done to reverse the trend? What will be the future relationship
between the law and undergraduate schools?

These questions are not necessarily new. Conversations
about a growing rift between the two schools has been heard
on both sides of Woods Creek for some time now. But the
issue rose to the surface in March when student leaders
addressed the questions, touching off a series of articles and
editorials in both the Ring-tum Phi, the undergraduate
newspaper, and its law school counterpart, the Law News.

There is, in the debate, some common ground. Virtually
everyone associated with Washington and Lee seems to
acknowledge that some separation between the undergraduate
and law schools not only exists, but is quite natural given the
different purposes and goals of the two schools.

Yet, there are those who contend that one of the
University’s distinctive traits is a certain sense of community
that pervades the campus. These are the people who not only

 

 

 

 

 

suggest the situation has changed, but also lament that change.

But is it really any different now from what it ever was?

William McC. Schildt, 64, ’68L, assistant dean of the
law school, says no.

‘‘There was no more interaction [between undergraduates
and law students] when I was in law school than there is
today,’’ says Schildt, speaking from the perspective of one
who attended W&L both as an undergraduate and a law
Student.

Andrew W. McThenia, ’58, ’63L, a professor of law who
addresses the question from the same perspective as Schildt,
agrees, saying: ‘‘People who think the separation is a ‘new’
thing are freezing history at a point in time when they were
here, the way things were. There was a separation then, it has
manifested itself in different ways, but there has always been
Separation.’’

And from that same perspective Robert E. R. Huntley,
"50, ’57L, president of the University and professor of law,
suggests: ‘‘Nostalgia has a way of visiting the past with a
rosy glow that never existed. There’s always been a
separation between the law and undergraduate students. There
was a Separation for me when I was a student. On the other
hand, for several reasons, separation is a greater fact now.”’

Why is the separation more apparent?

First and foremost, there is that geographic separation.
The move from Tucker Hall to Lewis Hall represents a move
of no more than 300 yards. In some respects, though, it might
as well have been 300 miles.

Law students simply do not need to come to the main
campus very often. The exceptions are meals in the dining
hall or co-op and use of the gymnasium. Also,
undergraduates find little need to cross the ravine to visit the
law school.

And it is not a situation limited to the respective student
bodies.

The move created an obvious division—a ‘‘Faculty interchange is not quite as great now as it has

. been,’’ admits Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the law school,
PY SICON VETERE ASCH ‘partly because it’s difficult for those of us in Lewis Hall to

 

 

 

undergraduate school, separated as they are go to the Alumni House every morning for coffee.”’

by Woods Creek. The footbridges are there, though. So the physical
separation, while a factor, is not the only change in the
relationship.

‘*The physical division has made the separation that has
always existed more evident,’’ says Schildt.

Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion, adds that ‘‘a
community—a sense of relating among human beings

 

‘“*People who think the separation is a ‘new’

thing are freezing history at a point in time when pursuing a common purpose—can be aided by spatial
they were here, the way things were. There proximity, but not generated by it.’’
was a separation then, it has manifested itself What, then, are the other changes, the other differences?

Some figures help explain: in 1957, there were 97
ae students in the School of Law while in 1980, four years after
separation. ”’ the move, the law school enrollment was 334—more than
Andrew W. McThenia, °58, *63L triple the number of 23 years earlier.
ee With the change in numbers has come an even more
dramatic change in the composition of the law school student
body.
For instance, the law class of 1959 had 29 graduates
representing eight states. By contrast, the law class of 1979

in different ways, but there has always been

 

|

 

 

 

had 115 graduates representing 25 states. Law students now
come from more undergraduate institutions than ever
before—144 different schools as opposed to just 79 in 1970.

All of this did not just happen, of course. The University
instituted a law admissions policy designed to make the law
school a strong national institution.

Joseph E. Ulrich, ’59, ’61L, professor of law, observes
that “‘when you decided to go out and recruit and bring in
people from all over the nation, you necessarily had a more
diverse group. The first year I was on the admissions
committee, we had about 250 applications, the great majority
from Washington and Lee and V.M.I. Over the next few
years, we had 1,300 to 1,500.’’

Starting in the 1976-77 admissions year, Washington and
Lee graduates were no longer given special consideration in
admission to the School of Law. Prior to that change,
Washington and Lee had been a seven-year program for many
students: four years for the bachelor’s degree with another
three for the law degree. Of the 185 students enrolled in the
law school in 1970, 46 (or almost 25 percent) had received
their undergraduate degrees from Washington and Lee. Ten
years later, that figure was 26 (or less than eight percent) out
of 334 law students.

The fact is, W&L undergraduates are no longer
encouraged to apply automatically to W&L’s law school.

‘‘The advice I give to an undergraduate is that if you’ve
been to Washington and Lee, an all-male institution in a
small town, for four years and you can get into a law school
as good or better than Washington and Lee, then go,’’ says
Michael A. Cappeto, director of career counseling and
placement for the undergraduate school and pre-law advisor.

Adds Ulrich: “‘My own impression is that for Washington
and Lee students [undergraduates] it’s better to go some place
else for law school.”’

The decline in the number of W&L undergraduates
strolling across the footbridge to Lewis Hall for their
postgraduate work has unquestionably contributed to
whatever division exists between the schools. Fewer law
students have ties to the undergraduate community.

Clearly, the law school has become a different institution
from what it was several years ago simply in terms of the
diversity of its student body.

That diversity involves more than the increasing number
of undergraduate schools represented in the law school. There
was a crucial turning point in 1972, for it was then that the
law school began admitting women. Without question, that
event had great impact on whatever gulf might have existed
between the two schools.

**With the addition of women, the law school becomes
more and more a socially distinct and self-sufficient
community,’’ says Lewis H. LaRue, ’59, professor of law.

The differences in the composition of the respective
student bodies do not stop there, either.

In any given year, about 20 to 25 percent of the law
students will be married—a figure far greater than that in the
undergraduate school. And, as another point of comparison,
the average age of the entering first year law student is
slightly over 23 as opposed to the average age of an entering

 

 

The move from Tucker Hall to Lewis Hall
represents a move of no more than 300 yards.
In some respects, though, it might as well have
have been 300 miles.

 

 

‘A community—a sense of relating among
human beings pursuing a common purpose—
can be aided by spatial proximity, but not

generated by it.’’

Louis W. Hodges
Professor of Religion

 

 

 

 

In 1957, there were 97 students in the School
of Law while in 1980, four years after the move,
the law school enrollment was 334—more than
triple the number of 23 years earlier.

 

 

‘“‘The advice I give to an undergraduate is that
if you’ ve been to Washington and Lee, an all-
male institution in a small town, for four years
and you can get into a law school as good

or better than Washington and Lee, then go.’

Michael A. Cappeto
Pre-law Advisor

 

 

 

W&L freshman—18. Too, more law students than ever are
entering law school after spending a year or more in the job
market.

With these striking changes in the law school student
body—the variety of undergraduate institutions represented,
the addition of women, the increase in the married student
population—t is little wonder the law students and
undergraduates find less common ground than in the past.

Says McThenia: *‘It’s not surprising to me that there is
not going to be a lot in common between a 42-year-old
woman who has returned to [law] school and an 18-year-old
freshman in college for the first ttme. They approach life
differently and have had different life experiences. And both
are now at Washington and Lee.”’

There are still other changes. Some observers note that
legal education—i.e., the way law students are forced to
perform—is also different now.

Huntley, for instance, says that ‘‘there is a likely
difference in the maturity and motivation of undergraduate
and law students, a difference that is endemic to the situation.
This has now been enhanced by the greater competition
among law students in any law school to excel. The
competition in law and in a tighter job market has increased
the unity that exists in the law school.

‘‘In the old days, it did not make a difference how well
you did in undergraduate or law school—not nearly the
difference it makes now. But now the greater competition for
satisfactory grades and good recommendations has increased
the professional competition among law students. Now law
students simply have to work a lot harder.’’

There are other, more visible, signs of the separation.

Access to support services, dining facilities in particular,
have added to the division. For many years, Washington and
Lee students were virtually forced to eat at fraternity houses
since there was no campus dining hall open to all students.
As a result, most law students began or continued an

affiliation with a fraternity—and thereby a relationship with

the undergraduates. The addition of a dining hall open to all
and other support services has lessened the fraternity
affiliations of law students.

For the past several years, the law school and
undergraduate school have operated under different academic
calendars. In 1970, the undergraduate school instituted its
new curriculum with an accompanying change in calendar—
two 12-week terms followed by one six-week term in the
spring. The law school curriculum, meantime, requires two
15-week terms. That means that while classes are in session
for 30 weeks at both schools, the two groups are only on
campus together for about 21 of those weeks, allowing for
varying holiday schedules and not counting pre-examination
reading days and examination weeks.

In 1979, for the first time, there were separate commence-
ment exercises for the two schools—again for very important
reasons. The undergraduate calendar requires that
commencement take place during the first week of June at a
time when law seniors would have been out of school for
about three weeks and in the middle of bar examination
review courses.

eee aeeeeeeee—s———o—~™m™m™—™"

 

~~

 

 

 

**Both schools have their own classes for good,
pedagogical reasons,’’ says Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of
students in the undergraduate school. ‘*But when both
undergraduate and law schools were on the same academic
calendar, there was a more natural congruence.’’

It is, perhaps, these differences in the calendar that fuel
some conflicts between the two student bodies.

For instance, when the undergraduate campus is on break
for certain vacations, some University support services are
not available to law students who are still in class. The dining
hall, for one important example, does not serve meals. The
infirmary operates under shortened hours. The swimming
pool closes because no lifeguards are available. This creates a
situation in which the law students feel slighted.

James F. Berl, ’81L, president of the Student Bar
Association (S.B.A.) summarizes that feeling when he says:
‘“The University seems to revolve totally around the
undergraduate campus.”’

Adds Daniel R. Collopy, ’81L, treasurer of the S.B.A.:
‘“We sometimes get the feeling that we’re being treated as
second-class citizens.”’

Samuel L. Flax, ’81L, a third-year law student, observes:
‘“Many law students feel that since they pay the same tuition
as undergraduates, they should be entitled to the same
University services. Most law students really don’t realize
that if this were an autonomous body of 350 students [in the
law school] they wouldn’t have these support services in the
first place.”’

Aside from these general complaints, there is the special
situation arising from the presence of women law students on
a campus with an all-male undergraduate population.

Malinda E. Dunn, ’81L, a third-year law student and law
representative to the University Council, speaks to that
question when she says that ‘‘the University was really
lacking in support services for the women law students until
recently. There are still special problems that women have
here that I’m not sure anyone recognizes.”’

There is also the matter of the structure of several
campus-wide governance committees. The University
Council, the official intermediary between the students and
the faculty and administration, is composed of 27 members.
Only three of those 27 are from the law school.

The Student Body Executive Committee, which is
responsible for administration of the Honor System and the
supervision of all campus student activities, is composed of
12 members and includes a designation for only two law
representatives. Although it is theoretically possible to have
five, it has never been more than three in recent years.

Law representatives are not consciously excluded from
either the University Council or the Executive Committee—or
from any other group, for that matter. But the law school is
unlikely to get a significantly strong voice in student affairs.

Some student body leaders point out that law students are
represented as much as they want to be.

Robert H. Willis Jr., ’81, a senior and president of the
student body, says: ‘“When the effort for better
communication is made, it seems to be made only by the
undergraduate side. And law students often say they don’t

 

 

‘With the addition of women, the law school
becomes more and more a socially distinct and

self-sufficient community.’’

Lewis H. LaRue, ’59
Professor of Law

 

 

‘“, . . the greater competition for satisfactory
grades and good recommendations has
increased the professional competition among
law students. Now law students simply have to

work a lot harder.’’

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L
President of the University and
Professor of Law

 

i

 

have enough representation, but every law student who
applied to a student body committee this year was accepted.”’

The Student Bar Association, the law school student
organization, regularly receives approximately 86 percent of
the student activity fees that law students pay for their non-
classroom activities. The remainder is used for general
student body functions, both undergraduate and law. Some
law students feel the S.B.A. should receive more; some
undergraduates think it should receive less.

‘*There are many people who advocate giving the S.B.A.
all of their student activity fees and letting them do with it as
they please,’’ says Eric T. Myers, ’82, a junior and president-
elect of the student body. ‘‘But that would probably make the
division between the two groups even more pronounced. ’’

Adds Willis: ‘‘We understand the differences in the needs
of law students, and we give them more freedom on spending
than we do with any other campus organization.’’

Perhaps the greatest issue in the division between the two
schools involves the Honor System. It is not a new problem.

Richard A. Denny, a 1952 graduate and president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association, addresses that issue
when he says that ‘‘the chief concern of many alumni
regarding the division is with the Honor System.’

And Flax, who is president of the University’s chapter of
Omicron Delta Kappa national honorary society, puts the
Situation in perspective: *‘There is a basic resentment among
law students regarding the Honor System. Many feel that, .
considering the composition of the Executive Committee,
they would not be judged by their peers in an honor hearing.
But I don’t think that most law students recognize the
intangible assets the honor system provides: free access to the
stacks in the law library, 24-hour access to the law school in
general, being able to leave your books in a carrel without
fear of having them disappear.”’

Adds Sara A. Burford, ’81L, secretary of S.B.A.: “‘In

‘<The U niversity seems to revolve totally around general, law students are very supportive of and believe in the

i Honor System.’’
the undergraduate campus. y
5 P The gulf between the schools, then, goes beyond the
James F. Berl, ’81L

Student Bar Association Presitieht obvious geographic separation. On that point, there seems
little question. The question that remains, though, is whether
the gulf can somehow be reduced; whether some new, though
less tangible footbridges can be constructed, and, most of all,
whether narrowing the gap is an important or even desirable
goal.

Some observers point to the relationship as it often exists

at other universities—one of coexistence rather than
ee community.
ini Association Milton Colvin, professor of politics, says: “‘I have a
special interest in the law school since my father taught there
for several years. I think maybe we should look more to the
relationship that exists between the undergraduate and law
schools at such institutions as Yale or the University of
Chicago—one of coexistence with only a board of trustees
and administration that serve both groups.’’

Says LaRue: ‘‘When I went to law school [at Harvard]
there was absolutely no mixing at all—to the mutual
satisfaction of both groups.’’

And Steinheimer adds: *"You can go to most any

 

 

 

 

‘‘The chief concern of many alumni regarding
the division is with the Honor System.”’

 

 

 

university campus and find that once persons enter a
professional school they take on a different identity—one that
is very different from that which they had as
undergraduates.’

On the other hand, some insist that a sense of community
is extremely important to Washington and Lee.

Willis says: “‘I believe that at any university, especially
Washington and Lee, there should be a sense of community
to bind the institution together. The extent of the unity is
what is up for debate.”’

Adds Hodges: ‘‘I’m not sure how much benefit there is by
having closer associations between the two groups. But the

} sense of community, among the entire University, may be a
distinctive feature of Washington and Lee.”’

And this from A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, Virginia

f Supreme Court Justice and a member of the University’s
Board of Trustees: ‘‘In view of present day circumstances, it
may not be possible to foster a sense of community. But the
[law student’s] degree does come from Washington and Lee
University, and I think that Washington and Lee as a whole
can benefit from an exchange between students who attended
other undergraduate institutions and Washington and Lee’s
undergraduates. ’”’

Finally, John offers this: ‘‘My personal view is that we
should have a close relationship and foster a sense of
community. But we should, at the same time, recognize the
clear differences between a professional law school and an
undergraduate school.’’

Law students do—and probably will continue to—
participate in campus affairs alongside undergraduates. Law
students are involved in the intramural athletic programs more
than ever. The guiding force of a major student musical
group, a group that includes as many undergraduates as law
students, is a law student. More law students than ever before
take their meals in the dining hall alongside undergraduates.
Law students take part in student organizations, such as the
‘*Contact’’ speaker forum, the Mock Convention, and the

 

 

“I believe that at any university, especially

Student Activities Board. The president of Omicron Delta Washington and Lee, there should be a sense of
Kappa, the national leadership society, is a law student. community to bind the institution together.

So the fact is, there are numerous law students The extent of the unity is what is up for debate.’’
participating in the affairs of the campus community—on Robert H. Willis Jr.. °81

both sides of Woods Creek. Student Body President
And out of that March flurry of discussions came several

proposals to further the interaction—proposals to merge the

outing clubs and yearbooks, for instance, and to encourage
more law school participation in University committees and

campus-wide events. . . . the relationship between the law school

Yet, it is apparent that the move from Tucker Hall to and the undergraduate school has settled about
Lewis Hall has accentuated a characteristic that was already ceo
where it is likely to remain, be that for better

present at Washington and Lee: the fact that the relationship
between these two very different groups of students and or for worse.
professors cohabiting the same campus is not the same as it
was just a few years ago.

Though there is little consensus on most of the issues,
there is one point on which most observers seem to agree—
the relationship between the law school and the undergraduate
school has settled about where it is likely to remain, be that
for better or for worse.

 

 

 

a

 

by Jeffery Hanna

‘ELECTRONIC JUDGE’

Video Tape System Returns an Instant Verdict on the Performance of W&L Law Students

While the debate over the presence of
cameras in the courtroom continues to rage
in many quarters, that question has become
academic (literally so) in the Moot
Courtroom of Lewis Hall.

There, the cameras are firmly in place,
recording every word and every gesture for
posterity—or at least until someone happens
to push the erase button on the video tape
recorder.

Last summer, the Lewis Hall Moot
Courtroom was equipped with an elaborate
closed-circuit television system which now
serves as the centerpiece of the Law School’s
extensive audio visual program.

Two remote control TV cameras, one
situated directly opposite the judge’s bench
and the other peeking out of a wall slightly
to the right of the bench, silently scan the
entire courtroom. The cameras are controlled
by a single engineer calling all the shots at an
impressive console in the control room which
is located in another part of the building.

With just a few educated flicks of the
wrist, the lone engineer can turn a trial
practice class into a TV show to rival Perry
Mason. Virtually every trick of the
technological trade is available, from split
screen to complete graphics. While one
camera zooms in on a defense attorney cross-
examining a witness, the other camera can be
used to superimpose the judge’s stern
countenance in a corner of the screen.

The new equipment has transformed the
Moot Courtroom into a mini-TV studio
capable of producing tapes that are vastly
superior to those that had come from the
previous system in which one manually
operated portable camera (with cameraman
attached) recorded from a single, unchanging
angle.

‘Most people who watch TV expect the
shots to be switched every so often,”’
explains Tom Williams, the Law School’s
media coordinator. ‘‘Having the two cameras
gives us the capability of making taped
proceedings more realistic in the sense of a
TV production. ”’

Questions of style aside though, perhaps
the major improvement in the system is that
the cameras do their work so unobtrusively,
keeping distractions inside the courtroom to a
bare minimum. In fact, except for the
occasional whir of a camera as it pivots for a

8

 

 

Moot Courtroom’ s unblinking
electronic eye at work

better view, there is no evidence that those
two unblinking, electronic eyes are
watching.

‘“We’ve always sacrificed quality for
staying out of the way in the classroom,”’
Williams observes. ‘‘But in the past we had
to have wires and cable stretched across the
floor and all the equipment in plain sight.
The new system has gotten us out of the
room.’’

And out of sight (more or less, anyway),
out of mind. The Allen Funt syndrome takes
over. Once the students forget they’re on
camera, the result is a more natural—yes,
even candid—performance.

Yet, for all the technological
advancement, what makes the Moot
Courtroom system all the more uncommon is
that it exists almost exclusively for teaching
purposes.

‘“We could, with this system, create
production quality tapes of the sort that some
schools produce to sell,’’ says Williams.
‘*But our media program is designed solely
for the benefit of the students, and I’m
unaware of another school with a system as
extensive as ours that is used only for the
students’ benefit.’’

Precisely how does such a closed-circuit
TV system benefit the aspiring attorneys?

Instant replays, what else? Or, at least,

almost-instant replays.

Suppose, for instance, a member of trial
practice class has spent two hours one
evening presenting a case to the jury.

Fifteen minutes after the verdict is in and
the class is out, the student can walk down to
the library, request the video tape of the
preceding proceedings, and watch the trial
from opening statement to closing argument
in a Study carrel specially equipped with a
video tape player. As a bonus, the student
can eavesdrop (by way of audio tape) on the
jury deliberations, thereby getting an insight
into which arguments succeeded or failed
and why.

‘It is a great advantage to be able to
critique your own performance on video
tape,’’ says Phil Calderone, a third-year law
student who is intimately familiar with the
system from both ends of the camera since he
is a Student assistant to the media program.

‘Not only do you pick out little things—
mannerisms, gestures, and the like—but you
also have the opportunity to examine the
arguments you’ve made. You constantly see
things you were unaware of. Occasionally,
you are reassured by something you see on
the tape—discovering that what you thought
you had done wrong was actually right.’’

The closed-circuit system in the Moot
Courtroom is used extensively in the Burks
Moot Court competition for first-year
students whose oral arguments are taped for
their self-examination and self-critiques. In
addition, visiting lecturers’ presentations are
taped and made available as a library
resource. The system will also be invaluable
when the Law School is host to the National
Institute of Trial Advocacy’s training
program for practicing lawyers in the
summer.

Cable Nine, the undergraduate television
station, has even gotten into the act, airing
tapes of practice trials from time to time.

The Moot Courtroom system, while the
most advanced and complete, is only part of
the overall media effort at the Law School.
Several portable video tape units are
constantly used in other contexts. Classes in
counseling and a seminar in labor
negotiations have found the technique
particularly helpful.

Professor Thomas L. Shaffer, who
teaches courses in counseling, sees several

 

player.

 

 

These photographs illustrate the instant replay capability of the Moot Courtroom. From top to bottom: Phil
Calderone, a third-year law student makes his presentation in front of the remote control camera; the
presentation is recorded in the control room where Lynn Wishart, associate librarian, handles the engineering
chores; moments later Calderone examines his performance in a study carrel equipped with a video tape

areas in which the video taped sessions are
beneficial.

‘“Usually, the students will see most of
the little things they are doing wrong—
fidgeting, saying ‘uh,’ speaking too fast. But
a review of the tapes also shows more subtle
things in a counseling session,’’ Shaffer
Says. ‘‘For instance, a student might find that
he has been too aggressive, or perhaps too
defensive, with a client.

‘‘Eventually we hope to get a remote
control system similar to that in the Moot
Courtroom installed in the office we use to
practice counseling. With a remote control
camera, everyone would forget about the
camera and the exchanges would be more
natural.”’

Another Law School professor, Mark
Grunewald, records virtually every session of
the labor law seminar he teaches and finds
that the video taping serves a dual purpose.

‘‘I do review tapes for the purpose of
pointing things out about the students’ style
in negotiations,’’ Grunewald says. ‘‘But the
taping also enables the students to carry on
the negotiations without my presence. I find
that they react differently when I am not in
the room. Some of the negotiation sessions
can go on for hours, so by taping I am able
to review sessions on a schedule that suits
me, :

At any given time, the reserve desk at the
Law School library has about 225 video
tapes which can be checked out along with a
set of head phones for viewing in one of the
special carrels. There are currently five carrels
equipped with video tape players but,
according to associate librarian Lynn
Wishart, there will soon be seven in use.

‘Of our 225 tapes, 60 are commercially
produced and were purchased for use as
library resources,’’ Wishart explains. ‘The
other 165 have all been produced here and
are constantly being recycled as we erase a
tape and use it over and over again.”’

Given the continuing advancements in
video technology, there is little doubt that
the Law School will find its system even
more useful in the future.

‘That is one of the best things about the
Moot Courtroom system,’’ says Williams.
“It’s all very good equipment and something
that, for our purposes, will never become
obsolete.’’

 

 

THE GAME

The weather was ideal. The Wilson Field stands were nearly
full. The game plan could not have been better.

All in all, it was a perfect setting for The Big Game. Almost
perfect, anyway. There was one slight snag: the final score.

The University of Virginia’s lacrosse team, ranked third in
the nation, built a 5-0 halftime lead, then staved off a strong
second half rally to spill the Generals, 9-6, in the annual battle
between the state’s oldest college lacrosse rivals.

A crowd of 5,250 turned out to watch the proceedings even
though the University was on spring vacation. These photo-
graphs are a sample of how it was.

 

yo

 

Hii

Virginia’ s Mike Caravana (15) is hounded by W&L’s Jim Herbert. Coach Jack Emmer exchanges pleasantries with one of the game officials.

10

Photographs by
Neil Sheehan, ’81, and Tami Teel

 

 

 

Hollins exchange student Nancy Hotchkiss and friend enjoy the game. W&L’s track team had a corner on the hot dog concession.

1]

 

 

THE GAME

12

tis

The fa

 

 

 

Stanley Fish, professor of English at
Johns Hopkins University and one of the
nation’s foremost authorities on the works of
John Milton, delivered the address at the
annual Phi Beta Kappa/Cincinnati Society
convocation on March 26 in Lee Chapel.

Thirty undergraduates were inducted into
Phi Beta Kappa this year along with seven
members of the Class of 1980, six of whom
returned to campus to participate in the
ceremonies.

Fish’s lecture, entitled ‘‘No Bias, No
Merit: The Political Structure of Literary
Studies,’’ was both a witty and provocative
discussion of literary criticism.

One of Fish’s major arguments was that
‘literary studies, far from being removed
from the activities of the marketplace, from
the world of politics and business, is a world
of politics and business in its own right and
should be so.’’

A 1959 graduate of the University of
Pennsylvania, Fish received his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from Yale University. He
taught at the University of California at
Berkeley before joining the Johns Hopkins
faculty in 1974.

Fish has been a Guggenheim Fellow and
a fellow of the American Council of Learned
Societies. He is a member of the Modern
Language Association, the Milton and
Spenser Societies, and the editorial boards of
Milton Quarterly and Milton Studies.

The author of several books, Fish wrote
what is considered by many in the field as
the most influential book on John Milton in
the last 30 years. It is entitled Surprised by
Sin: The Reader in Paradise Lost and
utilized a technique of literary criticism now
known as ‘‘reader response criticism.”’

Fish is also the author of Self Consuming
Artifacts, a study of 17th century literature;
his latest book is Js There a Text in This
Class?’’

Fish’s lecture was preceded by the
introduction of the Phi Beta Kappa inductees
who were:

William S. Ashe, senior chemistry major
from Columbia, S.C.; Douglas H. Barton,
1980 graduate with business administration
major from Annandale, Va.; Michael P.
Bernot, junior chemistry major from
Hampton, Va.; Clarke S. Bigler, senior
business administration major from
Trumbull, Conn.; Robert L. Brooke, senior
European history and French major from
Richmond, Va.

Winston W. Burks III, senior American
history major from Marvell, Ark.; J. Scott
Cardozo, senior European history and French
major from Richmond, Va.; W. Warren
Crowdus III, senior European history major
from Lake Forest, Ill.; W. Scott Dacus,

Milton Scholar
Addresses

Phi Beta Kappa;
37 Honored

junior biology major from Greenville, S.C..;
E. Steven Dummit III, senior chemistry and
art major from Sanford, N.C.

Thomas E. Dutton, 1980 graduate with
politics major from Mansfield, Ohio; Goetz
B. Eaton, 1980 graduate with German major
from Anderson, S.C.; R. Christopher
Gammon, senior business administration
major from Lynchburg, Va.; Clyde M. B.
Harkrader, junior American history major

 

Stanley F ish, PBK speaker

 

PBK President John Evans (right center) congratulates initiates.

from Mineral, Va.; Howard W. Herndon,
senior American history major from
Tallahassee, Fla.

Alfred R. Hintz, senior American history
and anthropology major from Lynbrook,
N.Y.; Scott T. Howell, junior chemistry
major from Colonial Heights, Va.; David B.
Irvin, senior politics major from Roanoke,
Va.; Gary A. Johnson, junior chemistry
major from Fairfax, Va.; Edward A.
Johnson, senior physics major from
Huntsville, Ala.; David Franklin Koogler, a
1980 graduate with a physics-engineering
major from Steeles Tavern, Va.

David H. Kuhn, senior mathematics
major from Naugatuck, Conn.; Lawrence J.
Loveridge, 1980 graduate with physics-
engineering major from Marshfield, Mass.;
A. William Mackie, senior politics major
from Chevy Chase, Md.; Brian J. Noonan,
Junior accounting major from Charlotte,
N.C.; E. Quinn Peeper, junior biology major
from Germantown, Tenn.

Edmund P. Perry, junior English major
from Birmingham, Ala.; G. Eric Plum,
junior chemistry and mathematics major from
Virginia Beach, Va.; Mark E. Robson, junior
chemistry and physics major from Austin,
Tex.; Thomas R. Salley III, 1980 graduate
with English major from Richmond, Va.;
Thomas M. Savage, senior interdepartmental
mathematics and science major from Irmo,
=.

Mark W. Scully, senior mathematics and
German major from Simsbury, Conn.;
Robert M. Waymouth, junior mathematics
major from New Milford, Conn.; David L.
Weaver Jr., 1980 graduate with chemistry
major from Metairie, La.; John A. Wells III,
junior biology major from Columbia, S.C.:;
J. Franklin Williams, junior accounting
major from Danville, Va.; R. Blake
Witherington, junior mathematics and French
major from Athens, Ga.

 

 

13

 

DRINKING AT W&L

Student Body Executive Committee’s Survey Provides Data on Use and Abuse of Alcohol

Citing its concern over the growing
problem of alcohol abuse among college
students throughout the nation, the Student
Body Executive Committee at Washington
and Lee commissioned a study of student
drinking habits at W&L in the fall of 1980.

The study, undertaken by Professor
William Buchanan’s class in social science
research methods, was based on a
questionnaire answered by 675 students—
about half the undergraduate student body.
Results of the study were released in March.

Among other findings, the report
concluded that students’ consumption of
alcohol varies considerably—from the 7.6
percent who said they do not drink at all to
11 percent who said they consume more than
25 drinks per week; that student drinking
patterns conform closely to their parents’
drinking patterns; that drinking is closely

 

associated with the social life at W&L; that
there exists some evidence that alcohol
consumption reduces academic performance
among heavier drinkers; and, that a
substantial number of students would
welcome the availability of non-alcoholic
beverages at social events. |

In response to the study, Lewis G. John,
dean of students, said that the findings
‘‘confirm my impressions’’ and ‘emphasize
the need to look for educational programs in
the area of alcohol abuse.”’

Eric T. Myers, the Executive
Committee’s junior representative and
president-elect of the Student Body for 1981-
82, had originally suggested that the study be
undertaken and that the University consider
starting an alcoholism-awareness program,
such as BACCHUS, a voluntary program
begun at Florida State University to inform

students about the use and abuse of alcohol.

H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen,
indicated that, starting next fall, the
University will provide information about
such programs and will give special training
in that area to the freshman dormitory
counselors.

The two-page questionnaire was handed
out to students during spring registration.

According to the study, the ‘‘average’’
student reports that he consumes about nine
beers, glasses of wine, or mixed drinks in the
course of an average school week. The
percentage of non-drinkers—7.6 percent—is
slightly lower than the 11 percent figure
found among other college students.

Perhaps the figure that causes more
concern than any other is the 11 percent who
indicated that they consume more than 25
alcoholic drinks of some kind per week.

According to both James W. Worth,
Washington and Lee’s counseling
psychologist, and Anne McThenia, a
counselor for Alcohol Services of
Rockbridge and Lexington, such a figure is
indicative of individuals bordering on an
alcohol problem. Both Worth and McThenia
also observed that the 11 percent figure is
close to the national average of those with
alcohol problems—one in eight who drink.

As for the connection between students’
and parents’ drinking habits, the study said
that the ‘‘vast majority’’ of students see
themselves and their parents as moderate
drinkers. There was a strong relationship

ie
_ between the students’ perception of their

fathers’ drinking and the students’ own
drinking. For instance, the majority of
students who do not drink said their fathers
seldom or never drink while the students who
reported drinking the most also perceived
their fathers as frequent or heavy drinkers.

The study’s conclusion that drinking is
‘‘almost entirely a social phenomenon,
occurring at group events’’ was based on
Statistics showing that the most common
situations in which drinking occurs are at
social events, on a date, or on Wednesday
nights when many parties regularly take
place.

The report indicated that those who do
not drink are less satisfied with the social life
at Washington and Lee than those who do.
Fifty-five percent of abstainers are
dissatisfied compared to only 24 percent of
all students.

Since a good deal of the social life
revolves around fraternities, it was not
surprising that fraternities are the locale for
much of the drinking. The study showed that
fraternity members drink significantly more
than non-fraternity members. Even students

who are not currently fraternity members, but

either used to be or plan to be members,
drink more than non-fraternity men.

One area of concern in the study was the
number of respondents—4 percent to 19
percent—who said they drink, at least
occasionally, in what may be considered
inappropriate circumstances: alone, while
studying, or in the morning. Only 2 percent
said they do so frequently, but Ms.
McThenia noted that drinking in such
circumstances usually occurs only in the

more advanced stages of an alcohol problem.
Another concern was the high number of
students who said they drink while driving—
12 percent said they do so frequently and 33
percent said occasionally. The authors of the
report attributed this response to drinking
associated with “‘road trips’’ to attend social
functions at neighboring women’s colleges.
The study was particularly interested in
the consequences of drinking, including any
relationship between drinking and
academics. According to the report, most of
the consequences are embarrassing or
uncomfortable, rather than serious, but ‘‘it is
apparent that drinking does have a damaging
effect on academic performance for a
substantial minority. . . .”” Sophomores,
who tend more than other classes to live in
fraternity houses, were most likely to have
their academic work affected by drinking.
Nearly 15 percent of those sophomores who

 

admitted to negative experiences from
drinking cited poor test scores as a
consequence.

The heavier drinkers also had the more
pronounced academic consequences. While
20 percent of all students frequently or
occasionally miss classes or appointments as
a result of drinking, this percentage climbs to
40 percent among the heaviest drinkers, and
they are also more likely to fail their classes.

Respondents to the questionnaire more
often cited more positive experiences from
drinking—i.e., ‘‘had a good time,”’’ ‘‘felt
more socially at ease,’’ ‘‘made new
friends.”’

Asked to rank reasons for drinking,
students checked most frequently that their
primary reason was ‘‘to celebrate.’’ Other
reasons in order of frequency were ‘‘to
relax,’’ “‘for the taste,’’ ‘‘to feel good,’’ and
least frequently ‘‘because others drink.’’ Ms.
McThenia said that many people might be
alarmed that some 20 percent said they drink
‘‘to feel good,’’ but she added that alcohol
counselors would not consider that
significant.

Since four out of every five students
always or frequently drink at social events,
the authors of the study asked whether such
social events are structured to encourage
drinking by those who would prefer not to.
Of all students questioned, 13 percent said
they would consume soft drinks rather than
alcohol if soft drinks were available at a
social event, and another 62 percent would
like to have the choice of soft or hard drinks.
That led Worth to observe that the lack of
opportunity for students to enjoy non-
alcoholic beverages adds to potential
drinking problems. Dean John noted that the
administration strongly advocates having soft
drinks and other alternative beverages
present at all University-wide parties and
social functions.

The students who conducted the survey
and wrote the report were J. Brooks Flippen,
a junior from Norfolk, Va.; Michael M.
Gregory, a sophomore from Richmond, Va.;
James E. Herbert, a senior from Winston-
Salem, N.C.; Eden Li, an exchange student
from Hong Kong; Thomas H. McCoy, a
senior from Boyce, Va.; Neil Sheehan, a
senior from Bloomington, Ind., and Mark
Torres, a junior from Norwich, Ct.

15

by Bill Millsaps

FROM MOUND TO MUNICH

In the Contest Between Academics and Athletics, Hachenburg Scores One for the Classroom

This article by Bill Millsaps, sports
editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch,
appeared in the April 19 edition of that
newspaper and is reprinted here with
permission.

The 1981 Washington and Lee baseball
brochure offers these comments from coach
Craig Jones on Rich Hachenburg, a junior
pitcher from Miramar, Fla.

‘“The veteran in our starting rotation and
proven competitor with strong arm, good
breaking pitches, nice mustache . . .’’ Jones
could have added, ‘‘and a clearly defined
sense of priorities.’’

During the Generals’ regular season,
Hachenburg appeared in seven games with a
2-3 won-lost record, 25 strikeouts in 30
innings and a 4.75 earned run average. The
numbers aren’t overpowering, but Jones was
looking forward to having them available
when W&L, for the first time in its baseball
annals, plays in the ODAC tournament next
weekend in Lynchburg.

Only Hachenburg won’t be in
Lynchburg. He’ll be in Munich. As in
Munich, Germany.

A German major at W&L, Hachenburg
long ago planned to take a six-week trip with
10 classmates and a W&L professor to what
amounts to the ‘‘old country’’ for
Hachenburg. His father was born in
Germany, and his grandmother, whom he
hasn’t seen since he was 7, still lives there.
So, this morning, around 5 o’clock, Prof.
Robert Youngblood and the 11 W&L
students will drive to Washington National
Airport, fly to Kennedy Airport in New York
and then transfer to a plane that will carry
them to Munich.

‘‘T wish there was some way I could
commute back and forth between Munich
and Lynchburg,”’ said Hachenburg. ‘‘I really
feel we can win the tournament.”’

Hachenburg has, however, much stronger
feelings about his academic work at W&L, a
school which gives no athletic scholarships
and therefore cannot bring pressure to bear
on athletes and resolve sports-studies
conflicts in such fashion.

‘It was a trip I had to take for my
major,’’ said Hachenburg, ‘‘and I wanted to
take it last year, but money was a problem.’’
So he rescheduled it for this spring, came up

16

 

with the necessary $1,200, and put his name
on the list.

At the beginning of last week, it didn’t

appear there would be any problem for
Hachenburg. The Generals faced four must-
win games and needed some outside help to
gain a berth in the tournament. So they won
four straight and got the outside help in the

 

 

Rich Hachenburg, 82, eyes another batter.
form of a Randolph-Macon victory over
Hampden-Sydney, one of the Generals’
competitors for the final berth in the ODAC
event.

‘‘If I were on scholarship at a Division I
school,’’ said Hachenburg, “‘I would have
thought a long time about doing this because
when you’re on scholarship, you’re

essentially being paid to play. The way it is
here, none of us is going to make the pros.
My days are numbered as an athlete, and I
know it.”’

When it comes to athletics, Hachenburg
has long had such a realistic outlook. As a
senior in high school, he stood ninth
academically in his class of 506 (““some of
my professors here would be amused by
that,’’ he said), and he had a choice: ‘‘go to
the University of Florida and be a Social
Security number to my professors, or come
to a small school where I could get a fine
education and play some baseball and
football.”’

The small school turned out to be W&L,
and Hachenburg hasn’t regretted his choice.
He’s lettered three years in baseball, and last
fall he was the Generals’ starting
quarterback.

When Hachenburg leaves today, he won’t
be returning to the W&L campus until fall
football practice. He’s already boxed the
clothes he won’t be taking to Germany and
sent them home to Florida by United Parcel
Service. But one essential item isn’t being
shipped back to Miramar. ‘‘I’ve deflated a
football and put it in my suitcase,’’ he said.
‘‘T hope I can find some people over there
willing to catch some passes.”’

The trip last six weeks and will be worth
six credit hours. After it’s over, Hachenburg
will remain in Germany for three more weeks
visiting family members. Then he’ll go back
to Miramar and, for the sixth straight
summer, be a counselor in the city’s
recreation system. After that job is done, it’s
back to Lexington and pre-season football
practice in mid-August.

For the immediate future, Hachenburg
hopes there is some way he can keep tabs on
what his teammates are doing in Lynchburg.
The best he’s been able to arrange so far is a
promise from W&L athletic publicist Ken
Ries that he’ll mail to Munich the stats from
all the rest of the Generals’ games, plus any
stories that appear in the papers.

“The rest of the guys on the team are sad
to see me leave,’’ said Hachenburg, ‘‘at least
I like to think so. And I’m sadder than
anybody else.

‘‘But I still feel a part of the team in the
tournament. I'll still be in the dugout. I did
my best this year. I think I contributed.”’

Se

Wr GAZETTE

$1 Million Scholarship Bequest; Student Helps Put Out the Blaze; ROTC Awards

 

 

$1-million bequest
endows scholarship

Washington and Lee University has
received a bequest of more than $1 million
from the estate of Egbert B. Doggett, a 1914
graduate of the University, for the creation of
an endowed honor scholarship.

The Egbert B. Doggett Scholarship
Endowment will fund scholarships that will
be awarded on the basis of academic merit,
strong traits of character, and financial need.

Mr. Doggett was a native of Danville,
Va., the son of Rev. William and Ellen
Bogue Doggett. He received the bachelor of
science degree in civil engineering from
W&L.

After working as an engineer for the city
of Philadelphia immediately following his
graduation from W&L, Mr. Doggett served
with the 603rd Engineers in the 5th Army
from July, 1918, through July, 1919.

Following the war, Mr. Doggett joined
the Bethlehem Steel Company in Bethlehem,
Pa., as an accountant. He worked for
Bethlehem Steel from 1920 until his
retirement in 1961, serving much of that time
as an actuary with the company’s pension
and relief plans. He died in October of 1978.

In announcing the University’s receipt of
Mr. Doggett’s generous gift, which totals
$1,059,829, Washington and Lee University
president Robert E. R. Huntley said: “‘Mr.
Doggett’s years at Washington and Lee early
in this century were a tremendous influence
upon his life. Now, through his foresight and
generosity, new generations of deserving
students will benefit from the
accomplishments of his long life. We are
grateful and pleased that we are able to honor
his memory in this way.”’

_ The Doggett Scholarship Endowment
becomes an integral part of the extensive
financial aid program Washington and Lee
administers annually. In 1980-81, for
instance, W&L is providing $1,184,090 in
financial aid to 345 of the University’s
undergraduates.

Moreover, the Doggett bequest applies
toward the goal of $12.5 million that was set
for new endowment during the second and
final phase of the University’s development
program. After successfully completing the

first phase of the $62-million program in
1976 by raising $37.5 million ($1.5 million
beyond the stated goal of $36 million), the
University has currently received $17.5
million in commitments toward the second
phase goal of $26 million. The second phase
of the program is scheduled for completion
in December of 1981.

 

 

Alumnus corrects magazine
on Lee’s resting place

No, Robert E. Lee’s grave has not been
moved, no matter what you may have read in
Sports Illustrated recently. And Paul
Simpson, Class of ’76, was quick to point
that out.

In an article on Mike Newlin, a member
of the New Jersey Nets professional

basketball team, Sports Illustrated writer
Douglas Looney refers to Newlin’s habit of
exploring historic sites in the cities he visits
during his travels in the National Basketball
Association.

Wrote Looney: **In Washington (Newlin)
likes to visit Arlington National Cemetery
and immerse himself in the life of Robert E.
Lee, who lived close by and is buried
there.”’

Ahem. Robert E. Lee buried in Arlington
National Cemetery? Indeed.

Two weeks later the 19th Hole section of
Sports Illustrated included Simpson’s letter,
setting matters straight: ‘‘. . . for the sake of
historical accuracy,’’ wrote Simpson, ‘‘your
readers should know that when Newlin is in
Washington, D.C., he must travel farther
than Arlington National Cemetery to visit the
grave of Robert E. Lee. Lee is buried in
Lexington, Va. (about 185 miles southwest

 

Important art notice
to alumni and parents

A major benefit exhibition of paintings
from the University’s collections and from
the collections of alumni and parents will
be held in the late spring of 1982 at the
Hirschl-Adler Galleries in New York City.

The exhibition will commemorate the
250th birthday of George Washington, the
University’s first major benefactor, who was
himself an art collector.

On special loan for the show will be a
choice selection of works from Washington
and Lee’s collections of 18th-, 19th-, and
20th-century paintings, including the cele-
brated first portrait of Washington from life,
in the uniform of a British Colonial colonel,
painted in 1772 by Charles Willson Peale.

A selections committee will be formed
to seek major works for inclusion in the
show comparable in quality to those in the
University’s collections.

Approximately 150 paintings will make
up the exhibition, which will cover three
centuries of American and European art. A
catalogue of the exhibition will be pub-
lished.

Norman Hirschl of Hirschl-Adler Gal-
leries and James W. Whitehead, secretary

 

 

of the University and curator of its art col-
lections, announced plans for the show.

If you wish to participate, please send
your name, address, and telephone number,
and a description of the painting or paintings
(photograph or snapshot) that you are sub-
mitting for consideration to:

Office of the Secretary
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

17

& GAZETTE

of Washington) on the campus of
Washington and Lee University.’’

For the record (to borrow a phrase from
Sports Illustrated), a spokesman for the
magazine said nine letters had been received
correcting the mistake. He did not, however,
know whether all nine letter writers had
W&L connections. We’ll simply assume
they all did.

 

 

Fire fighting pays off
in and out of the classroom

David Stevens, a sophomore from
Annapolis, Md., has discovered a rather
unusual method for improving his study
habits—fighting fires in his spare time.

At least, Stevens contends his status as a
full-fledged member of the Lexington
Volunteer Fire Department actually helped
his studies.

‘*T find I organize my time much better,
get my studying done more efficiently, since
I know my beeper is liable to go off at any
moment and I'll have to go out on a call,”’
Stevens said.

These academic implications
notwithstanding, the members of the Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity are not about to scoff at
their fraternity brother’s avocation. In fact,
Stevens’ fire fighting has been a boon to the
Phi Psi house—quite literally.

When a fire broke out on the third floor
of the Phi Psi house early one Sunday
morning in March, Stevens was one of the
first to hear the blare of the smoke detectors.
He made a quick survey of the fire, realized
it was out of control, and immediately
ordered the building evacuated.

Then Stevens grabbed up his uniform and
raced the five blocks to the fire station to go
to work.

“Once we arrived at the Phi Psi house,
Dave led us into the fire with the hose,’’ said
Lexington fire chief Bryan Causey.

‘“T knew exactly where the fire was and
what the situation was in there,’’ Stevens
added. ‘‘It saved us some time.”’

The combination of the smoke detectors’
warning and Stevens’ training helped limit
damage to the house as well as prevent any
injuries.

Stevens is the only student among
Lexington’s 46 volunteer firemen. His status
is not without precedent, however. In years
past, other W&L students served as
volunteers.

‘‘But it’s been quite some time since we
had a student,’’ fire chief Causey noted. ‘‘I

18

David Stevens, ’83, student fire fighter.

think it’s valuable for us to have a student on
the rolls considering the large student
population we have in Lexington. Certainly
Dave’s presence was invaluable in the
instance of his fraternity house catching
fire.’’

Since he joined the department in
January, after satisfying the one-year
residency requirement, Stevens has
responded to 90 percent of the calls,
occasional'y making a premature exit from a
class when beckoned by the beeper on his
belt.

As one W&L professor observed about
those occasional disruptions, “‘What are you
supposed to do when his beeper goes off and
he asks permission to leave? Tell him to let the
city burn?’’

 

 

ROTC honors bestowed
at awards ceremony

Christopher S. O’Connor, a senior from
New York City, was the winner of the
Outstanding Cadet Award this year in the
University’s ROTC program. He was

 

presented the University sabre, the symbol of
the award, by President Robert E. R.
Huntley during the annual President’s Day
Awards Ceremony in April. O’Connor won
the award by vote of the Corps of Cadets.

Two other seniors received top honors in
the program. Douglas R. Shipman of South
Glastonbury, Conn., was presented the
Major Ronald O. Scharnberg Memorial
Award, named in honor of a member of the
W&L Class of 1963 who was killed in action
in Vietnam. Alan Pryor of Atlanta was the
winner of the George C: Marshall ROTC
Award.

Other awards were:

© Department of the Army Superior
Cadet Decoration Awards: John J. Fox II,
senior from Richmond; Clyde M. B.
Harkrader, junior from Mineral, Va.;
Douglas W. Lessley, sophomore from
Charleston, W.Va.; Andrew T. MacLellan,
freshman from Flemington, N.J.

© Reserve Officers Association of the
United States Award: Patrick M. Robinson,
senior from Nashville, Tenn. (gold medal);
Anthony R. Ierardi, junior from Philadelphia
(silver medal); David P. Ridlon, sophomore
from West Hartford, Conn. (bronze medal).

® Daughters of the Founders and
Patriots Award: Newton P. Kendrick,
sophomore from Norfolk.

@ American Legion Awards: Arthur W.
Mackie, senior from Chevy Chase, Md.
(scholastic excellence); Robert D. Shaver,
junior from Quentin, Pa. (scholastic
excellence); Scott T. Stafford, senior from
Crewe, Va. (military excellence); Thomas E.
Newton Jr., junior from New Orleans
(military excellence).

@ Association of the United States Army
ROTC Award: Keith E. Goretzka,
sophomore from West Chester, Pa.

® Association of the United States Army
ROTC Gold Medal Award: Scott B. Puryear,
junior from Madison, Va.

® Daughters of the American Revolution
Award: Vincent Coviello, senior from New
Providence, N.Y.

@ Sons of the American Revolution
Award: Scott S. Prysi, freshman from
Alexandria, Va.

@ American Veterans of World War II
Award: Robert H. Forsyth, junior from
Fairhaven, N.J.

@ The National Sojourners Award:
David M. Marsh, sophomore from
Westernport, Md.

®@ Veterans of Foreign Wars of the USA
Award: Roger D. McDonough, freshman
from Cheverly, Md.

®@ Military Order of the World Wars

 

 

Awards: John F. Schmidt, senior from
Montville, N.J. (gold medal); Douglas R.
Linton III, junior from Bay Head, N.J.
(silver medal); Anthony J. Zaccagnini,
sophomore from Reistertown, Md. (silver
medal); Edward J. O’Brien, freshman from
Norwich, N.Y. (bronze medal).

 

 

Students’ TV news show
wins Sigma Delta Chi award

‘‘The Southwest Chronicle,’’ a television
news show produced by W&L journalism
students, won an award in competition
sponsored by the Society of Professional
Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi.

The program is a weekly news magazine
focusing on events in the southwest Virginia
area. Funded by several businesses in that
area of the state, ‘‘The Southwest
Chronicle’’ is produced entirely by W&L
students in the studios of WBRA-TV,
Roanoke’s public television station, and is
shown on WSVN-TV in Norton, Va., and on
WBRA-TV in Raonoke.

**The Southwest Chronicle’’ placed
second in the documentary category of the
Mark of Excellence regional awards. The
show which earned the award featured an in-
depth examination of action taken during the
recent session of the Virginia General
Assembly.

Ben Keesee, a senior from Memphis,
Tenn., is producer and anchorman for the
show. Reporters include Currin Snipes, a —
senior from Blacksburg; Chris Peacock, a
junior from West Point, Ga.; Frank
Billingsley, a junior from Mountain Brook,
Ala.; and, Chris Graham, a sophomore from
Charlotte, N.C.

Journalism professors R. H. MacDonald
and Robert de Maria are executive producers
of the program.

 

 

Black Emphasis Month
brings array of speakers

Actress Ruby Dee provided the highlight
of Black Emphasis Month with a
performance of dramatic readings in Lee
Chapel.

Sponsored by the Student Association for
Black Unity, the month-long series of events
followed the theme ‘‘Black Women in the
’80s.”’

Ms. Dee, whose husband, Ossie Davis,
visited the campus a year ago, skillfully

 

wove a wide assortment of material into a
delightful performance.

In an interview with the Roanoke Times,
Ms. Dee had expressed an optimistic view of
the future. ‘‘We’re on the verge of some
spiritual awakening,’’ she said. ‘*I think the
American people are going to move into
another dimension. We are going to be
brothers.”’

In addition to Ms. Dee’s performance,
the Black Emphasis Month series ran the
gamut of topics:

@ Mignon Holland Anderson, author of
Mostly Womenfolk and a Man or Two, \ectured
on her experience as a black woman writer;

e@ Beverly J. A. Burton, staff attorney for

Black Emphasis Month concluded with the tenth annual Black Ball, sponsored by AB. U.

 

 

the Virginia Legal Aid Society, spoke on
black women and the law;

® Vernese O’Neal, director of admissions
at Dillard University in New Orleans,
lectured on ‘‘the Miseducation of Blacks in
America.’”’

 

 

Students forgo meals
to fight world hunger

By forfeiting one of their evening meals
at Evans Dining Hall, W&L students raised
almost $600 for world hunger in March.

The Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship

19

Le GAZETTE

designated March 25 as World Hunger Day,
encouraging students to make contributions.
The dining hall contributed the cost of each
meal students forfeited to the fund, and
several fraternities also contributed the cost
of a dinner.

According to junior J. Franklin Williams,
president of the Inter-Varsity Christian
Fellowship, half the funds, which totaled
$591, were donated to the Community
Pantry, a part of the Concerned Citizens of
Lexington, while the other half went to
World Vision International, an overseas
relief and emergency organization.

 

 

 

Jenks and Paxton cited
for historical scholarship

William A. Jenks, professor of history
and head of the department, and a former
student of his, Robert O. Paxton, ’54, now
professor of history at Columbia University,
were recognized recently as being among
those American historians who have made
significant contributions to European history.

The recognition came in the presidential
address of David H. Pinkney at the 95th
annual meeting of the American Historical
Association in Washington, D.C., last
December. The address, *‘ American
Historians on the European Past,’’ was
published in the February 1981 issue of The
American Historical Review, the
association’s journal.

In his address, Pinkney counted Dr.
Jenks among those American historians
responsible for the lively awakening of the
historiography of the Habsburg Empire after
it fell into a long sleep following the
dissolution of the middle European
community. He said that German reviewers
in approving and acclaiming the books of
these Americans ‘‘have observed that
American historians of the Habsburg Empire
enjoy the double advantage of removal from
the nationalist passions of the area and of
having the insights of those who have
experienced life in a federal system that has
worked and flourished.’’

Dr. Jenks is the author of four books on
Austrian history: The Austrian Electoral
Reform of 1907 (1950); Vienna and the
Young Hitler (1960); Austria Under the Iron
Ring, 1879-1893 (1965); and Francis Joseph
and the Italians, 1849-1859 (1978).

Paxton was cited in the address as being
among the leading American historians of
contemporary France. Pinkney noted that
French historians have to an unusual degree

20

Edward L. Pinney Prize

Contributions are being sought to
Support an annual prize that has been
established in memory of Edward L.
(Mike) Pinney, professor of politics and
one of Washington and Lee’s most
highly regarded teachers, who died of a
heart attack on May 14, 1980. Mike had
been a member of the W&L faculty for
17 years. The Pinney Prize will be
awarded to the W&L student who
demonstrates extraordinary commitment
to scholarship and to the nurturing of
intellectual life at Washington and Lee.
Checks made payable to Washington and
Lee University may be sent to David
Novack, Department of Sociology,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia.

 

 

 

surrendered contemporary history to
journalists and politicians and that American
historians have moved into the field,
bringing to their study the advantages of
detachment and perspective. He pointed out
that several books by Americans, among
them Paxton’s Parades and Politics at Vichy:
The French Officer Corps Under Marshall
Pétain (1966) earned the admission of René
Rédmond of the University of Paris in 1970
that ‘‘to Americans we owe some of the best
studies of contemporary France.’’ He added
that Paxton’s Vichy France: Old Guard and
New Order, 1940-1944 (1972), published after
the Rédmond remark, has won comparable
recognition.

 

 

In the arts

@ The Ninth Step, a play written and
directed by Thomas J. Ziegler, assistant
professor of fine arts and theatre, was
presented at the Boiler Room Theatre in
March. A production of the Washington and
Lee University Theatre, the play is based on
one of the 12 steps an alcoholic follows in
overcoming the disease.

e James Avery, internationally acclaimed
pianist, appeared in concert as the final
program in this year’s Concert Guild series.

e A collection of drawings, etchings, and
bronze sculptures by contemporary artist
Leonard Baskin were displayed at duPont
Gallery in March.

@ The Washington and Lee University
Theatre presented Look Homeward, Angel,

Ketti Frings’ adaptation of Thomas

Wolfe’s autobiographical novel, in the
Troubadour Theatre. The play was directed
by Albert C. Gordon, professor of drama and
chairman of the department of fine arts.

@ The University’s new Allen Digital
Computer Organ was dedicated during a
concert that featured the W&L Glee Club,
the W&L Brass and Percussion Ensemble,
and the Sweet Briar College Choir. James T.
Cook, assistant professor of music at W&L,
was organist for the program which included
the performance of a mass composed by
Norman Dello Joio.

@ Six one-act plays directed by W&L
students were presented in the Boiler Room
Theatre as part of a course on directing. The
plays were: Bad, Bad Jo-Jo, by junior Peter
H. Moody; The Bear, by junior Richard
Boaz; Cowboys #2, by senior Robert
Shuman; For Sylvia, by junior Bruce Young;
Moonshine, by senior J. Mark Turner; and,
Private Wars, by senior Alexis V. Richards.

©e Two W&L freshmen, Lee Feldman of
North Miami Beach, Fla., and Bill
Thompson of Boca Raton, Fla., took part in
an exhibition debate against two British
debaters on the topic: ‘‘This house believes
that the government that governs best
governs least.’’

 

 

Fure is named
to two positions

Robert P. Fure has been named Director
of Summer Programs and Assistant Director
of Publications at the University.

A 1968 graduate of Northern Michigan
University, Fure earned both his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees in English from the University
of California at Berkeley. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1977 as
assistant professor of English.

In addition to courses in American
literature and modern poetry, Fure has
designed and taught interdisciplinary courses
in art and literature while at W&L. He has
also published articles on a variety of
subjects, ranging from contemporary poetry
to life in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia.

In 1980, Fure was appointed to the
planning committee and later to the faculty
of the new Institute for Business Executives,
a summer program in the humanities for
middle and upper level corporate
management which will be held on the
campus in June.

As Director of Summer Programs at
W&L, Fure will coordinate program research

 

 

Robert Fure, new administrator

and development for the University’s
expanding summer curriculum.

In the publications office, Fure will be a
writer for the Alumni Magazine and other
University periodicals and special
publications. He also will assist in a variety
of editing and publishing responsibilities.

 

 

 

Jeans awarded grant
by Mednick Fund

Roger B. Jeans Jr., associate professor of
history, has been awarded a research grant
from the Maurice L. Mednick Memorial
Fund for study this summer.

The Mednick Memorial Fund is
administered by the Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges (VFIC), a joint fund-
raising consortium of 12 four-year private
colleges in the state, including W&L.

Jeans will use his Mednick research grant
to further his work on a biography of Carsun
Chang, a well-known 20th century Chinese
philosopher and politician.

Jeans’ research will include exploration
of the holdings on 20th century China of the
Public Record Office in London and
investigation of the British Museum’s
collection of English language treaty port
newspapers. He also plans research at the
National Archives in Washington and
investigation of material deposited with the
Chinese Oral History Project of Columbia
University.

Jeans, whose Ph.D. degree is from
George Washington University, specializes
in Asian history and has delivered numerous
papers on that subject.

 

Roger Jeans, Mednick Fund recipient

The Mednick Memorial Fund was created
in 1976 after the accidental death of a young
Norfolk industrialist. His family and business
associates established the fund to perpetuate
his name to recognize his own strong interest
in higher education. The VFIC administers
the fund to encourage the professional
development of college teachers and improve
their competence through grants for research
and advanced study, and to assist highly
qualified, needy students in their upperclass
years in college.

 

 

Smith is awarded
journalism fellowship

Hampden H. Smith, associate professor
of journalism, has been awarded a fellowship
under a new program that is designed to
recognize journalism teachers for their
dedication to the teaching of writing and
editing.

Sponsored by three top editors’
organizations, the program—Fellowships for
Excellence in the Teaching of Writing and
Editing—attracted 82 applicants in its first
year.

Smith was one of 10 journalism
professors from throughout the country who
won the fellowships and will participate in a
week’s seminar in June at the Modern Media
Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla.

The fellowships are sponsored by the
education committees of the American
Society of Newspaper Editors, the
Associated Press Managing Editors, and the
National Conference of Editorial Writers.
They are supported by a $10,000 grant from

 

Hampden Smith, | journalism fellow ,

the Modern Media Institute.

At the seminar, the teachers will work
with five editors on ways of improving the
quality of writing instruction within
journalism education.

 

 

Williams receives grant
for radiation research

H. Thomas Williams Jr., associate
professor of physics, has received a research
grant to study high energy radiation.

The Cottrell College Science Grant will
provide Williams with more than $8,600 to
Support research and calculation of
probabilities of scattering high energy
radiation from nuclei. The research will be
conducted over the next two summers.

According to Williams, experimentation
in high energy radiation will be increasing
during the next several years. His research
and calculations are designed to help
scientists know what to measure during their
experiments.

Williams received his B.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Virginia. He
joined the W&L faculty in 1974 and is the
author of numerous articles on nuclear
physics. Williams has, in the past, received
grant support from the National Science
Foundation and the Virginia Foundation for
Humanities and Public Policy.

The Cottrell College Science Grants of
the Research Corporation of New York City
are designed to help academic scientists at
private, predominately undergraduate
institutions conduct basic research of
originality and importance in the natural

21

 

H.T. Williams, radiation researcher

sciences. The grant provides faculty stipends
and funds for a student research assistant as
well as support for equipment, supplies, and
travel associated with the research.

 

 

 

Elmes is senior author
of psychology textbook

David G. Elmes, professor of
psychology, is the senior author of a new
laboratory-oriented textbook, Methods in
Experimental Psychology, published by
Houghton Mifflin Company.

Barry Kantowitz and Henry L. Roediger
If, both of Purdue University, are co-authors
of the text. Roediger is a 1969 Washington
and Lee graduate who received his Ph.D. in
psychology from Yale University.

Elmes, who earned both his
undergraduate and graduate degrees from the
University of Virginia, has been at the
University since 1967. Elmes is also author
of Readings in Experimental Psychology,
published by Rand McNally in 1978. Elmes’
research concerns the processes underlying
human learning and retention. He has
published about two dozen articles in various
technical journals.

 

 

Faculty Activity

© Gerard M. Doyon, professor of art
history, presented a slide-lecture, ‘“Why So
Few Women Artists in the History of French
Art?’’ at the fourth annual Art History
Symposium at Longwood College in
Farmville, Va., in April.

22

 

David Elmes, textbook author i

@ W&L treasurer E. Stewart Epley was
director of this year’s American Cancer
Crusade in Rockbridge County.

@ Leonard E. Jarrard, head of the
psychology department, was the recipient of
an award for his outstanding contribution to
psychology as a science from the Virginia
Psychological Association.

@ Carren Osna Kaston, assistant
professor of English, was elected the first
president of the Henry James Society.

@ Emory Kimbrough Jr., professor of
sociology and head of the department,
presented a paper, ‘““‘Medieval and Modern
New Town Development: A Comparative
View,’’ at the Southern Sociological
Society’s annual meeting in Louisville, Ky.

@ David R. Novack, assistant professor
of sociology, delivered a paper, ‘‘The
Meanings of Crime: An Application of
Componential Analysis,’’ at the annual
meeting of the Eastern Sociological Society
in New York City in March. Novack also
presented a paper, ‘‘Affirmative Action in
South Boston: Racial and Class Conflict,’’ at
the Southern Sociological Society meeting in
Louisville.

@ Capt. Robert C. Peniston, director of
Lee Chapel, won a George Washington
Honor Medal from the Freedoms Foundation
for a letter he wrote to the editor of the
Richmond News Leader. The letter was titled
‘“Retired Captain Ponders Defense
Problems.”’

e A musical composition by music
professor Robert Stewart was performed by
the Brass Chamber Music Society of
Annapolis, Md., in April.

@ Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the author of an article, ‘‘John
Stewart Skinner: Life and Letters,’’ in a

 

forthcoming issue of the Maryland Historical
Magazine.

© O. Kendall White Jr., associate
professor of sociology, presided over a
session on the topic of religion and society
during the annual meeting of the Southern
Sociological Society in Louisville.

@ James W. Whitehead, curator of the
University’s art collections, delivered a
lecture on the Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain at the opening of an
exhibition of the collection at Oglebay Park
in Wheeling, W.Va.

 

 

Speakers on campus

@ Louis M. Brown, professor of law
emeritus at the University of Southern
California and Distinguished Visiting
Professor at the Whittier College of Law,
delivered the keynote address for the 1981
Legal Ethics Institute. Brown’s lecture was
titled: ‘‘Preventive Law: Humanistic
Aspects.’’

e@ Jim Bouton, former major league
baseball pitcher and author of the
controversial book, Ball Four, was a speaker
in the Contact series. Among other items,
Bouton offered a plan by which professional
baseball would be owned and operated by
municipalities with profits used to benefit the
cities.

@ Federal District Judge Sherman
Finesilver discussed ‘‘Products Liability’’
and examined the legal ramifications of the
swine flu vaccination program during a
lecture at the Law School.

@ Virginia Governor John Dalton talked
about redistricting and the upcoming
gubernatorial race during a lecture sponsored
by the College Republicans.

@ Nicholas Hellmuth, director of the
Foundation for Latin American
Anthropological Research in St. Louis,
presented a slide-lecture, ‘‘Rituals of Human
Sacrifice in the Mayan Palaces,’’ under the
sponsorship of the department of fine arts
and the Glasgow Committee.

e Susan Wittig, dean of Tulane
University’s Sophie Newcomb College,
lectured on ‘“Community and Consensus:
The Structure of a College Curriculum’’
under sponsorship of the University’s Ad
Hoc Committee on Liberal Education.
Established last year at the request of
President Robert E. R. Huntley, the Ad Hoc
Committee on Liberal Education is studying
the curriculum and will offer suggestions for
strengthening liberal arts education at W&L.

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

President Huntley Wins Lynchburg Citation at Chapter’s Annual Gala

 

LYNCHBURG—Chapter officers present President Huntley with the Lynchburg C itation. They are

William C. Washburn Jr., 66, incoming president; Walter B. Potter, ’48, outgoing president, and Marc A.

Schewel Jr., ’69, incoming vice president.

 

Payne, ’37; Mark B. Davis Jr., ’45; Robert L. Stein, ’41, and Thomas A. Courtney IIT, ’51.

LYNCHBURG. The Lynchburg Citation
went this year to President Robert E. R.
Huntley, a 1950 graduate of Washington and
Lee who became its 20th president, the first
alumnus to head the University since pre-
Civil War times. He received the award at
the Lynchburg chapter’s meeting on April 3

at the Lynchburg Fine Arts Center. Walter B.
Potter, 48, outgoing chapter president, made
the presentation.

The citation is presented annually to a
person who has made outstanding
contributions to the life of the University; it
is considered to be one of the most important

 

awards conferred by a W&L alumni chapter.

Huntley was cited for his ‘‘absolute
commitment to Alma Mater and the quality
of his leadership in advancing her to a firm
stance of unprecedented strength.’’ It noted
also the President’s ‘‘magnificent effort and
monumental achievement in the development
of the University’s physical, financial, and
academic resources toward ensuring its
competence to serve generations to come.’’
The citation commended Huntley for his
‘‘innate modesty, his unpretentious style, his
smooth equanimity, his generous spirit.”’

Lea Booth, ’40, made arrangements for
the meeting; Potter presided. Bertram R.
Schewel, ’41, gave his annual (and
humorous) State of the Chapter Address.
Marc A. Schewel Jr., ’69, gave the
treasurer’s report. G. Edward Calvert, °44,
made the report for the nominating
committee, and these officers were elected:
William C. Washburn Jr., ’66, president;
Marc A. Schewel, vice president; Thomas
W. Pettyjohn Jr., 68, ’72L, treasurer.

Last year’s citation recipients were
Catherine F. McDowell, secretary of the
W&L School of Law for 30 years, and her
late husband, Charles R. McDowell, who
taught law at W&L for 42 years. Other
recipients have been Frances and Sydney
Lewis of Richmond, donors of $9 million to
the University’s law program; Dr. Edgar F.
Shannon, former president of the University
of Virginia (Lewis and Shannon are both
members of the W&L Board of Trustees);
James W. Whitehead, secretary of the
University, and Mrs. Whitehead; and the late
Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students at W&L
for 30 years.

LOUISVILLE. A large group of alumni
and their spouses attended a cocktail party on
Feb. 24 at the Louisville Country Club. They
welcomed Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, who had attended a
national conference of alumni and
development directors at the Hyatt Hotel on
the previous day. The chapter was pleased to
have Arthur P. (Bondy) Bondurant, ’28,
attend. The arrangements were made by
Charles W. Dobbins, ’70, chapter president,
and Terry W. Tyler, ’72, vice president for
finance.

20

CHAPTER NEWS

BALTIMORE. The chapter held a
reception and buffet on March 28 at the
University Union at Towson State
University. The social event preceded an
evening lacrosse game between the Generals
and the Towson State Tigers. Sam Englehart,
73, and Tim Winfield, ’73, arranged the
gathering and greeted guests at the door
along with Frank C. Brooks, ’46, a member
of the Board of Trustees. Many parents of
lacrosse players attended the reception and
joined the alumni in cheering the Generals’
efforts at the game. The Generals lost to
Towson 19-11 to end a nine-game W&L
domination of the series.

CHARLESTON. The W&L Glee Club
provided the entertainment at a cocktail
reception on March 28, 1981, at the Holiday
Inn ‘‘Heart O’Town’’ in Charleston. Alumni,
parents, and guests enjoyed hors d’oeuvres
and a buffet dinner. The 30 students in the
Glee Club presented several musical
selections, including the alumni favorite
‘‘College Friendships.’’ Arrangements for
the reception were made by chapter officers
Louis Paterno, ’65, ’68L, and Fred Belden,
60, along with I. N. Smith, ’57, 60L, a
member of the Board of Trustees. Following
the reception, the Glee Club presented a
concert at the new Cultural Center at the
Capitol Plaza. A large audience sparked by
alumni and friends of Washington and Lee
enthusiastically received the group and its
director, Dr. Gordon Spice. Mrs. Frances
Haynes, mother of Robert Haynes, ’82, a
member of the Glee Club, and other families
assisted in the arrangements for the concert
and the lodging for members of the group.

TIDEWATER. The chapter sponsored its
annual oyster roast on March 28, 1981.
Alumni, spouses, and friends gathered on the
banks of the Lynnhaven Bay at Bayville
Farms to enjoy oysters, music, reunion, and
to celebrate the ‘‘ Year of the Oyster.’’ Many
enjoyed watching the NCAA semi-final
basketball game between North Carolina and
Virginia on a television set provided by
Richard Burroughs, ’68. Those attending
from Lexington included Dr. Louis Hodges
of the Religion Department and Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, and Richard Sessoms of the
Development Office.

24

 

 

CHARLESTON—Alumni enjoyed a performance by the W&L Glee Club at a cocktail reception. Guests
included Mrs. I. N. Smith Sr.; I. N. Smith Jr., ’57, ’60L, aW&L Trustee; Mrs. William T. Brotherton Jr. ;
William T. Brotherton Jr.,’47,’5O0L; Mrs. William T. W. Brotherton; Robert W. Haynes, ’82, and William

T. W. (Will) Brotherton, ’75.

 

CHARLES TON—The large group at the chapter’ s reception applaud the Glee Club’ s rendition of the W&L
Swing. The Glee Club later presented a concert at the city’s Cultural Center.

 

: -

RICHMOND—A luncheon at the Downtown Club on April 8 provided the setting for discussion among
Mark Putney, ’78; Rolf Piranian, ’74, W&L’s soccer coach; Dick Sessoms, associate director of development;
David Redmond, ’66, ’69L, chapter president; Jack Emmer, W&L’s lacrosse coach, and Lee Keiger, ’76.

RICHMOND. A record number of alumni
and friends attended a luncheon on April 8,
1981, at the Downtown Club of Richmond.
Dave Redmond, 66, ’69L, chapter
president, presided and announced future
plans for the chapter, including luncheons,
an evening cocktail reception and dinner in
late May, and a golf outing with Hampden-

Sydney. W&L lacrosse coack Jack Emmer
and soccer coach Rolf Piranian, ’74,

reviewed the athletic program at the
University and the records and future
prospects of their teams. Everyone was urged
to attend the W&L vs. U.Va. lacrosse game
on April 18. W. C. (Bill) Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, was also present.

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to ‘‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘“steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $50.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $95.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $50.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va. :

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

 

1923

M. IRVINE DUNN and his wife, Katherine, visited
Alaska and took a cruise through the Panama canal
during the last six months. They are scheduled to take
a trip around the British Isles in June.

1925

Dr. CALVIN T. BURTON was inducted as president of
the Virginia Medical Alumni Association at the
medical alumni weekend in Richmond in May. Burton
practices ophthalmology in Roanoke.

HERMAN J. WOMELDORF, an ordained minister for
more than 50 years, returned to Raleigh, N.C., from
the Presbyterian Church of Edisto Island in South
Carolina. In his eight years at Edisto Island the old
1830 church was renovated and restored, the 1834
manse restored, and in January 1981 the first educa-
tional-fellowship building was completed.

1926

JOHN B. Funk has led a life of public service. He was
a member of the Maryland Legislature from 1934 to
1938 and a member of the Maryland Senate for eight
years. He was named Maryland Secretary of State in
1947 and was chief engineer for four years. From
1951 to 1959 Funk was director of public works for
Baltimore County. He retired in 1968 after eight
years as chairman of the Maryland State Road Com-
mission.

1927

ROBERT TAYLOR has retired after 50 years in the
newspaper business. He was chief editorial writer
and political columnist for the Pittsburgh Press. He is
also a former editorial writer for the Scripps Howard
newspapers. He lives in Wichliffe, Ohio.

1928

FRANK R. Dupuy Jr. retired in 1977 as vice president
of Hearst Magazine and publisher of Cosmopolitan
magazine. He travels extensively.

1933

R. B. ARMISTEAD has been retired from the engineer-
ing department of South Central Bell Telephone Co.
since August 1975.

1934

Dr. WILLIAM J. Moran continues as an adjunct
research professor in chemistry at Drew University.
He retired in 1976 as director of chemical manufac-
turing in the pharmaceutical division of Ciba-Geigy
Corp.

1936

ARTHUR HAUCK, though semi-retired, still does some
free-lance consulting work in chemical plant engi-
neering. He and his wife spend winters in Lutz, Fla.,
and summers in South Bristol, Maine.

25

    

E. F. Shannon Jr., "39°

RALPH H. SMITH continues as vice president for
governmental relations of Union Central Life Insur-
ance Co. He is also town crier for the Village of
Mariemont and past chairman of the industry advisory
committee of the Conference of Insurance Legisla-
tors. He lives in Cincinnati.

1937

JAMES A. BYERS retired from DuPont Company in
1975 after 36 years of service.

Having retired as director of the Jamestown- Yorktown
Foundation, PARKE S. ROUSE JR. is now an editor of
The Daily Press. He was recently appointed chairman
of the president house committee of the College of
William and Mary and commissioned by the college
to write the history of its presidents.

WILLIAM C. WILBUR JR., affiliated with the Corpus
Christi College in Texas, is currently on sabbatical in
Oxford, England, doing research in the Bodleian
Library.

1938

Dr. T. HART BAKER will retire as medical director of
the Southern California Permanente Medical Group
at the end of 1981. He lives in Laguna Niguel, Calif.

Dr. FLoyD R. Mays Jr., a surgeon in Big Spring,
Texas, is an active diver and teaches scuba diving at
the YMCA.

1939

R. WINSTON BAIN retired February 1981 as 3rd Ju-
dicial Circuit Court Judge of Portsmouth, Va.

Dr. EDGAR F. SHANNON Jr., Commonwealth Pro-
fessor of English and former president of the Univer-
sity of Virginia, received an honorary degree from
Ohio State University on March 20, 1981. He is
national president of Phi Beta Kappa and a member of
the Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee.

RALPH H. SmiTH (See 1936.)

1940

FREDERICK D. SHELLABARGER will retire in May
1981 from the University of Oklahoma and become
professor emeritus. He plans to make Santa Fe, N.
Mex., his home.

1941]

CHARLES F. HEINER retired in 1967 after 25 years
with the F.B.I. In April 1980 he took early retirement
with the security program of the Federal Reserve
Bank in Richmond.

CHARLES L. Hopson has practiced law in Frankfort,
Ky., for 35 years. In October 1980 he joined 300 of
his World War II shipmates who served aboard the
USS Lexington (CV-16) for a reunion in Pensacola,
Fla. , that included a day at sea on the ‘‘Blue Ghost,”’

26

 

now a training carrier. While in Pensacola he held a
two-man W&L reunion with Dr. Robert E. (Buzz)
Lee, 41.

ARTHUR C. SmiTH of Alexandria, Va., has retired
from the moving and storage business. He is currently
with American Systems Corp., a government con-
tractor in the management consulting field.

1942

WALTER L. Monroe is the former mayor of Mills-
boro, Del. His wife currently holds that position. He
is also the former president of the chamber of com-
merce and former commander of the Indian River
Post #22 of the American Legion.

JOHN JOE WILKINSON is the District Court Judge in
Steamboat Springs, Colo. He received his law degree
from the University of Colorado in 1949 and practiced
law in New Mexico until 1971 when he returned to
Colorado. In 1955-56 he was Democratic State
Chairman of New Mexico and in 1968-69 was presi-
dent of the New Mexico Bar Association.

1945

THE Rev. STANDROD T. CARMICHAEL is with the
Athletes For Better Education Foundation in Chicago.
It is an academic-athletic college counseling program
for highly skilled high school basketball players. He
is author and editor of the Stack the Deck writing
programs for junior and senior high school students.

ROGER R. KIMBALL is vice president and regional
sales manager for Bibb Co.

1949

BRIAN BELL is counselor for public affairs at the
American Embassy in Lagos, Nigeria. He is also
director of the International Communication Agency
program in Nigeria where he supervises 13 Americans
and 54 Nigerians. Bell is the third ranking U.S.
diplomat in the Embassy in this strategic and impor-
tant country.

1950

JAMES T. TRUNDLE, formerly with the real estate firm
of Century 21-Berry McCormick in Berlin, N.J., has
now joined Gitomer Management Associates, a real
estate firm in Cherry Hill.

IRVIN H. WICKNICK received his Chartered Property
Casualty Underwriter’s (CPCU) designation in Octo-
ber 1980. He is vice president for claims of Lumber-
man’s, a reciprocal insurance company, insuring the
forest products industry.

1951

JAMES H. PATTON IV has been named vice president
and manager of J. C. Bradford & Co.’s office in
Dalton, Ga. Patton has been with J. C. Bradford
since 1966. The firm is an investment banking con-
cern. Patton is also a director of Crown American,
Inc., and Junior Achievement.

1952

Dr. ECHOLS A. HANSBARGER JR. practices pathology
and laboratory medicine at St. Francis and Kanawha
Valley Hospitals in Charleston, W.Va. He is also
president of the Kanawha Medical Society.

1953

JAN J. (JACK) SCHILTHIUS JR. is associate pastor for
Parish Ministries Memorial Park (Presbyterian)
Church in Allison Park, Pa.

1955

ROBERT M. CULLERs has been appointed executive
director of the Wissahickon Valley Chamber of Com-
merce. A resident of Blue Bell, Pa., Cullers is presi-
dent of Writers: Free-Lance, Inc., in Ambler and
specializes in public relations and management for
groups and associations. He is also executive director
of Allied Florists of Delaware Valley, Inc. Cullers
was previously managing editor of the employee
publications at Atlantic Richfield Co. and associate
editor of General Motors World, the management
magazine for General Motors Corp.

CapT. T. E. LOHREY JR. is Force Judge Advocate for
Commander of Naval Surface Forces, Pacific Fleet,
in San Diego, Calif.

1956

JOHN K. OasT recently moved to Poquoson, Va.,
where he is executive vice president and chief execu-
tive officer of the First National Bank.

1957

CHARLES F. Davis JR. is still with Continental Bank
and is involved in their Asia-Pacific business. He
lives in Deerfield, III.

Capt. T. E. LOHREY Jr. (See 1955.)

1958

RANDOLPH W. LUNSFORD is back in the United States
after teaching at the Colegio Americano in Guate-
mala. He is presently teaching in the public schools in
Grand Rapids, Mich.

WILLIAM C. MILLER, former associate general coun-
sel with Xerox, has become vice president and general
counsel of Max Factor & Co., a subsidiary of Norton
Simon, in Hollywood, Calif. His family will move to
Los Angeles from their Connecticut home.

Harry Mosgs, producer of 60 Minutes, expanded on
a story on that program concerning secret drug ex-
periments by the Army and made a docu-drama TV-
movie for MTM Productions. It was Moses’ first
effort at directing. The film, which was aired on CBS
on Jan. 28, 1981, dealt with the story of James
Thornwell and his suit against the Army. Following
the filming, Moses returned to television news as
executive producer for a produced CBS series, Pro-
files With Mike Wallace.

 

 

R. S. Wolf, ’60

1959

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN EsPERIAN, a daughter,
Justine Auroro, on June 9, 1980. The family lives in
Lancaster, Pa.

Junius M. Lemmon is a business and estate planning
supervisor for the life division of Aetna Life Casualty.

CHARLES F. Davis Jr. (See 1957.)

1960

McGown I. (Mac) PaTRICk is president of Barney
& Patrick Advertising, Inc., in Mobile, Ala., and is
immediate past chairman of the board of trustees of
Affiliated Advertising Agencies International.

RICHARD S. WOLFE has been named group actuary by
the board of directors of Life Insurance Co. of Geor-
gia. Wolf joined Life of Georgia in 1964 as actuarial
assistant and was promoted to manager and assistant
actuary in 1968 and associate actuary in 1973, be-
coming manager for group rates and benefits later
that year. He is a fellow in the Society of Actuaries
and is former president of the Atlanta Actuarial Club.
Wolf is also a member of the Atlanta Regional Com-
mission’s task force on health delivery systems. He is
married to the former Thelma Cohn. They have two
children.

1961

JOHN R. FARMER, vice president of Goldman, Sachs
& Co., an investment banking firm, has been named
manager of the fixed income department for the West
Coast in their San Francisco office.

HENRY H. HARRELL has been named a senior vice
president of Universal Leaf Tobacco Co. in Rich-
mond, Va. Harrell joined the company in 1966 and
became a vice president in 1974. His major area of
responsibility is international tobacco sales. Harrell
is also a director of Jefferson Bankshares, Southern
Bank and Bank of Goochland.

WILLIAM R. JOHNSTON has formed a new company,
Agora Securities, Inc., which are members of the
New York Stock Exchange. Johnson is chief executive
officer and chairman of the board for Agora, which
specializes in more than 30 stocks. He is also the
treasurer and vestryman of Saint Bernard’s Church in
Morristown, N.J.

JUNIUS M. LEMMON (See 1959.)

WILLIAM C. MILLER (See 1958.)

1962

Harry G. BALLANCE is a pilot captain for Delta Air
Lines in Atlanta. He and his wife, Carol, have four
children.

RICHARD A. RADIS continues as a director of the Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. , Semi-Annual Billfish Tournament.
There are two three-day billfish tournaments and one
two-night swordfish tournament.

After 10 years overseas, most recently in the Nether-
lands, WILLIAM L. ROBERTS JR. is back in the United
States and is credit manager for leasing for Citicorp
Industrial Credit, Inc., a Citibank affiliate.

1963

KEN C. KOWALSKI continues in the insurance business
with Massachusetts Mutual. He has also joined Cosby
Insurance Co. in Lynchburg, Va., a small property
and casualty agency. He and his wife, Gail, have two
children and live in Lynchburg.

After graduation from the American Graduate School
for International Management, CHRISTIAN A. LARSEN
JR. went to work for Young and Rubicam Advertising,
Inc., in New York City. He was transferred to Puerto
Rico in 1968 and is now back in New York as director
of international marketing for Estee Lauder Interna-
tional, the cosmetic and fragrance manufacturers.

J. RICHARD UHLIG is employed by McCormick Pro-
perties, Inc., in Baltimore. He is currently vice presi-
dent of office buildings development and operations.

SHERWOOD W. WISE has been promoted to full pro-
fessor at Florida State University. He lives in Talla-
hassee.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. COLVIN, a daugh-
ter, Catherine Victoria Grant, on Nov. 27, 1980. The
young lady joins two older brothers. Colvin and his
wife, Kathleen, own and operate Colvin Communi-
cations, a public relations and marketing agency in
Arlington Heights, Ill.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. URQuHaRT III, a
son, James Burnell, on Sept. 15, 1980. The young
man joins an older sister. The family lives in Court-
land, Va., where Urquhart is an attorney and a com-
mander in the U.S. Naval Reserves.

BRICE R. GAMBER was recently named manager of
Chubb & Son’s north central region, headquartered
in Minneapolis, Minn. His family is currently living
in Barrington, Ill., and will join him in Minneapolis
in June.

CHARLES C. OWENS, a resident of Baltimore, enjoys
participating in steeplechases in Virginia and for the
past two years has been the winner of the First Colony
Steeplechase.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK is an environmental scientist
with Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC). He
and his wife have three children and the family lives
in Naperville, Ill.

1965

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE was recently appointed vice
president and general counsel of the Investment Group
of INA Corp. in Philadelphia. The Group has respon-
sibility for management of all insurance portfolios,

mutual funds, international investments and special
private placements, including oil, gas, and real estate.

WILLIAM S. Davin is advertising manager of Rolling
Stone magazine. He lives in New York city.

JOHN W. HUunr is an audit partner in the Midland,
Texas, office of Main, Hurdman and Cranstoon. He
had been with the same firm in New York. Hunt and
his wife, Ann, have two children, Linsly and Andy.

Dr. CHARLES A. SWEET has been promoted to pro-
fessor of English at Eastern Kentucky University. He
had several short stories published in Ellery Queen’s
Mystery Magazine under the pseudonym Hal Charles.

1966
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. M. NEELY YOUNG II, a son,
Carter Franklin, on Jan. 3, 1981. The young man
joins an older brother. Young is academic dean at
Pace Academy in Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN D. ANDERSON is nearing completion of his
second master’s degree, this one is guidance and
counselling, at Long Island University. He works at
Morris High School in South Bronx as a Spanish
bilingual grade advisor and counselor. Anderson, his
wife, Malky, and 5-year-old son, David, live in
Hartsdale, N.Y.

C. FREDERICK BENT III has formed a new law firm in
Milton, Mass.

EARL T. Berry is a partner in the Dallas law firm of
Crutcher, Hull, Ramsey and Jordan.

In January 1979, Dr. PHILLip D. MOLLERE was
appointed superintendent of chemical research and
development for Freeport Minerals. He recently spent
15 days in Australia reviewing nickel and cobalt
operations in Queensland. Mollere also just completed
a term as chairman of the Louisiana Section of the
American Chemical Society.

Following a recent merger to form the new Trinity-
Western Title Co. in Fort Worth, CHARLES H. NEw-
MAN III was named chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of the new firm. He had been presi-
dent of Trinity Title Co.

Since July 1979 GorDON V. RAMSEIER has been a
partner in the Atlanta office of Booz, Allen and
Hamilton, management consultants. Ramseier, his
wife, Judy, and children, Brian, 8, and Lisa, 3, live
in Sandy Springs, Ga.

E. STARKE SYDNOR has joined the legal department
of Vulcan Materials Co. in Birmingham. He had been
a partner in the Lynchburg law firm of Edmunds,
Williams, Robertson, Sackett, Baldwin and Graves.

1967

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. G. BLAINE Ewinc III, a
daughter, Stephanie Trenholm, on Nov. 22, 1980, in
Charleston, S.C.

27

   

S. F. Brauer, 67

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. TUCKER Mors, a son,
Richard Braden, on Dec. 14, 1980, in Memphis.
Morse resigned from Federal Express Corp. on Jan.
31, 1980, after nine years as senior vice president and
general counsel. He returned to Little Rock to enter
business.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT E. TAYLOR III, a
son, Harrison Bain, on Nov. 10, 1980, in Lynchburg.
Taylor was recently appointed senior counsel for
Babcock and Wilcox Co. in Lynchburg, Va.

GARRY APGaR, after four years in France with several
publications, is back in the United States doing free-
lance newspaper cartoonist work in New York City.

W. NaT BAKER is the manager of financial planning
and analysis for an operating division of Foremost-
McKesson, Inc., in San Francisco.

STEPHEN F. BRAUER has been elected president of
Hunter Engineering Co. in Bridgeton, Mo. He has
been with the firm in various sales and marketing
positions since 1971 and has been executive vice
president and a director since 1978. The firm is a
manufacturer of automotive wheel alignment, wheel
balancing, and other vehicle service equipment. The
home office is in St. Louis with plants in St. Louis
and Durant, Miss., a subsidiary in Canada, and dis-
tributors in 47 foreign countries. Brauer resides in St.
Louis with his wife, Camilla, and two young sons and
daughter.

MaJ. WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM is Stationed in Hei-
delberg, West Germany, with the U.S. Army.

JEFFREY GAYNER is director of the department of
foreign policy studies at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington, D.C. Gayner joined the foundation when
it was organized in January 1974 and is the only
foreign policy researcher on the 10-person staff. His
first two projects were a paper on the failure of
Marxism in Chile and an analysis of the Genocide
Convention, a United Nations treaty which was
brought before the U.S. Senate. Gayner has published
articles in The Asia Mail, The Journal of International
Relations, Intelligence Digest, The Journal of Social
and Political Affairs, and numerous newspapers.

PAUL R. STANTON has been named a fund member
attorney of Lawyer’s Title Guaranty Fund. He prac-
tices in the Miami law firm of White and Brown.
Lawyer’s Title Guaranty Fund is the nation’s first
bar-related title insuror.

1968
MARRIAGE: JAMES R. MADISON and Marilyn New-
ton, on Aug. 30, 1980. They live in Shreveport, La.,
where Madison is a partner in the law firm of Wiener,
Weiss, Madison and Howell.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE J. CRADDOCK, a
son, Theodore Henly Jack, on March 16, 1981.
Craddock is a practicing attorney in Lynchburg, Va.

28

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT C. GASTROCK, a son,
Darren Robert, on April 11, 1980, in Anchorage,
Alaska. Gastrock is a marketing representative and
pilot for Air Logistics of Alaska, a division of Offshore
Logistics, Inc., of Lafayette, La. The firm specializes
in helicopter and aircraft support to petroleum ex-
ploration activities. He and his wife have two older
sons, Brian Tyler, 3, and Jason Scott, 7.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. REYNOLDS, a daugh-
ter, Sara Medora, on Feb. 17, 1981, in Nashville.

JOHN S. ANDERSON recently joined United Gas Pipe
Lines Co. in Houston, Texas, as senior attorney.

Mavis P. KELSEY JR. works in commercial and in-
vestment real estate brokerage in Houston and the
surrounding area. He and his wife, Wendy, have two
children, Winifred, 8, and Cooke, 4.

In October 1980, ROBERT H. MOLL joined the staff of
the office of the solicitor for the U.S. Department of
the Interior. He specializes in personnel law and
freedom of information. Moll had been in the general
counsel’s office of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment. He lives in McLean, Va.

JOHN R. NAZZARO is executive director of the Ports-
mouth Area United Way in Portsmouth, Va.

JOHN W. RICE JR., a native of Winchester, Va., has
been promoted to the rank of major in the U.S. Air
Force and is now directorate of nuclear surety at
Kirkland Air Force Base in Albuquerque, N. Mex.
Rice was recently decorated with the Meritorious
Service Medal at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska.
The medal is awarded for non-combat meritorious
achievement or service to the nation. Rice earned a
master’s degree in 1975 from the Air Force Institute
of Technology at the Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base in Ohio.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GreGcory B. CRAMPTON, a
daughter, Anna Madison, on Dec. 8, 1980, in Ra-
leigh, N.C. Crampton is a partner in the law firm of
Broughton, Wilkins and Crampton.

G. WILLIAM ALLEN Jr. is a partner in the Florida law
firm of Walton, Lantoff. He is in the Fort Lauderdale
office.

ROBERT M. BUXTON lives in New York and works in
international commodity merchandising in Geneva
and New York for Continental Grain Co.

CLARK H. CARTER earned the professional designation
of Chartered Life Underwriter in October 1980. He is
an independent insurance agent with the Baltimore
firm of Mason and Carter.

BRANDON C. MarTIN is a Special claims representa-
tive in the casualty-property claim department of The

Travelers Insurance Co. in Richmond. He lives in
Petersburg with his wife, Alice, and 2-year-old son,
John. In the fall of 1980, Martin was elected president
of the Old Dominion Chapter of the National Railway
Historical Society. Several items from his personal
collection of toy trains are on loan to the national
museum of the Train Collectors Association at Stras-
burg, Pa., near the Pennsylvania State Railroad
Museum.

In May W. WILLIAM MELNYK will graduate from the
Seminary at the University of the South. He will be
ordained a deacon in the Episcopal Diocese of Upper
South Carolina on June 13. After a year as a deacon-
in-training, Melnyk will be eligible for ordination to
the priesthood.

AL G. READING is executive vice president of Houston
City Downtown Bank.

PHILIP E. STACKHOUSE of Baltimore is vice-president
of the First National Bank of Maryland.

ADDISON G. WILSON is taking leave from his Colum-
bia, S.C., law practice to serve as deputy general
counsel for the Department of Energy in Washington.

1970
MARRIAGE: ALAN P. MarIAN and DONNA FINCH
on Feb. 21, 1981. Marian practices law in the Phil-
adelphia firm of Joseph F. Lombardo and performs in
various musical groups. They live in Huntingdon
Valley.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER D. COURSEN,
twin sons, Cameron Dennison and Matthew Ash-
bolt on Feb. 2, 1981. The family lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN, a
second daughter, Margaret Virginia, on May 30,
1980. Fleishman is certified by the American Board
of Surgery. He has also been named a director of the
board of the Eden Chamber of Commerce.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. HAMLIN, a
daughter, Kristin Elizabeth, on July 30, 1980. Hamlin
is working on commercial air freight applications in
the advanced program planning department for the
Lockheed-Georgia Co. in Marietta. He had been di-
rector of schedule planning for Texas International
Airlines in Houston.

BIRTH; Mk. and Mrs. JOHN M. KEFAUVER JR., twin
daughters, Laura Anne and Megan Michelle, on Jan.
13, 1981, in Rice, Wash. Kefauver is a farmer near
Rice.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MALCOLM H. SQuIRES JR., a
son, Malcolm Hart III, on March 2, 1981. The family
lives in Charlottesville, Va.

T. KENNETH CRIBB JR., a native of Spartanburg,
S.C., has been named a legal advisor for policy
development on President Reagan’s White House
staff. Cribb was the Reagan campaign’s deputy chief

 

counsel and a member of the transition staff. Cribb
was formerly with Intercollegiate Studies Institute,
Inc., of Bryn Mawr, Pa., as its national director.
After graduation from the University of Virginia Law
School, he joined the Washington, D.C., office of a
New York law firm.

MaJ. C. GILBERT FRANK is a first year neonatal
fellow at Fitzsimmons Army Medical Center in Den-
ver.

ROBERT C. LEE has been named the city planner for
Buena Vista, Va. He earned his master’s degree in
urban and regional planning from Virginia Tech and
most recently was a research assistant in housing at
Appalachian State University in Boone, N.C.

JOHN M. NOLAN has been appointed Northeast re-
gional director of customer services for the U.S.
Postal Service. Nolan will be responsible for all retail
sales, delivery and postal vehicle operations, for more
than 3,000 postal facilities throughout the region. He
began his postal career as a management intern in
Washington, D.C., in 1970. He and his wife, the
former Joyce Franey, have two children.

E. OWEN Perry III was appointed vice president and
general manager of Southland Timber, a subsidiary
of Canal Industries, Inc., and a major dealer in forest
products and timberland in eastern Georgia. He lives
in Augusta with his wife, Betty, and daughters, Laura
and Beth.

CHARLES F. URQUHART III (See 1964.)

1971
MARRIAGE: Dr. MICHAEL G. FLORENCE and Gwen
Kanemori on Aug. 10, 1981. Florence is amember of
the surgical faculty at the University of Washington.
He will enter private practice in Seattle this summer.

MARRIAGE: KEvIn E. O’Grapy and Susan F. Zlot-
low on Sept. 2, 1979. O’Grady, an assistant pro-
fessor of psychology at the University of New Mexi-
co, earned an M.S. degree in 1976 from Old Domi-
nion University and the Ph.D. in clinical psychology
in August 1980 at the University of Connecticut.

MARRIAGE: Paut D. WILBER and JoAnn Hastings
on Oct. 4, 1980, in Berlin, Md. Wilber is an attorney
in Salisbury, Md., and they live in Pittsville.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN B. KING JR., a daughter,
Karen Lynne, on Oct. 29, 1980, in Virginia Beach.
She has two older brothers. King practices law with
the Norfolk firm of Vandeventer, Black, Meredith
and Martin.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. LEE MILLAR III, a son,
Glenn Lee IV, on July 30, 1980, in Memphis. Millar
is a systems analyst for First Tennessee National
Corp.

ALBERT ANGRISANT is assistant secretary of labor for
employment and training. He is in charge of CETA,

unemployment insurance and a number of other fed-
eral programs. Angrisani and his wife, Caroline, live
in Arlington.

Dr. STEPHEN CLEMENT practices gastroenterology
in Richmond.

HENRY A. HARKEY, an attorney in Charlotte, N.C.,
is the recipient of the 1980 Mecklenburg County
Distinguished Service Award, presented by the Char-
lotte Jaycees. Harkey has represented the Charlotte
Fire Dept., indigent defendents, and neglected chil-
dren in court as well as working with the Boy Scouts
and prison ministries from the Myers Park Presby-
terian Church.

MARSHALL B. MILLER Jr. has been elected to the
board of trustees of Trinity University in San Antonio,
Texas. After serving as an intern with the Denver
regional office of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, Miller joined the San Antonio law firm of
Gresham, Davis, Gregory, Worthy & Moore as an
associate in 1974 and became a partner in 1980.
Miller is a member of the American, Texas, and San
Antonio Bar Associations. He is married to the former
Elizabeth Tobin Gillespie. The Miller family’s record
of service to Trinity University spans three genera-
tions and four decades. Miller’s grandfather, a retired
Sears Roebuck executive, is a trustee emeritus of
Trinity, and is recognized for his 40 years of con-
tinuous service to Trinity and to educational leadership
in San Antonio.

Dr. THOMAS E. REYNOLDs has joined the Culpeper
(Va.) Family Practice Associates. He and his wife,
Charla, have a year-old son, Thomas Keith.

ROGER L. YOUNG graduated from the McGeorge
School of Law in Sacramento, Calif. on May 30,
1980. He is now with the Judge Advocate General’s
office at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in Golds-
boro, N.C. Young and his wife have two children,
Jeanne, 9, and Roger Jr., 7.

1972
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. RALPH D. CALDRONEY, a
daughter, Louisa Proffit, on Aug. 30, 1980, in Lex-
ington, Ky. Caldroney is assistant professor of medi-
cine at the University of Kentucky Medical School.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. GRAYSON FITZHUGH, a
daughter, Amelia Nicole, on Aug. 1, 1980, in Mid-
dletown, Ohio. Fitzhugh is manager of purchasing
for Akers Packaging Service.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ALBERT P. MCWHORTER, a
second son, Lee Parrish, on Jan. 10, 1981. McWhor-
ter is the assistant general director of the Young
Men’s Christian Association in Montgomery, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, a
son, William Sands, on Nov. 23, 1980, in Tampa.
Robinson is a labor lawyer with the firm of Fowler,
White, Gillen, Boggs, Villareal and Banker.

Dr. J. HUDSON ALLENDER is working on a fellowship

in pediatric cardiology at the University of Pennsyl-
vania.

Mark W. GROBMYER became a partner in the Little
Rock law firm of Davidson, Plastarios, Horne, Hol-
linsworth and Arnold. He has been chairman of the
Arkansas State Claims Commission and a member of
the State of Arkansas Civil Service Commission.

GILBERT S. MEEM Jr., a vice president with E. F.
Hutton & Company, Inc., has been elected a member
of the company’s advisory council.

Dr. FREDRICK H. SANDs is completing a fellowship
in adolescent medicine at the University of Washing-
ton in Seattle.

JOSEPH R. SLAy has been named managing editor of
Richmond Life Style magazine.

BRANDON C. MArtTIN (See 1969.)

1973

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. FRENCH, a son,
Hamilton Lee, on Feb. 20, 1981, in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. MuNT JR., ason,
Christopher Randolph, on April 8, 1980, in Lexing-
ton, N.C. Munt is a pediatrician in private practice
there.

Grecory P. Bucn is the scenic designer for the
Playhouse at East Carolina University in Greenville,
N.C. He earned the M.F.A. degree at Smith College.

LAWRENCE G. COHEN has resigned as partner in the
firm of Kirlin, Campbell & Keating to accept the
position of maritime counsel for Exxon Corp. in New
York City.

DOUGLAS A. ForsyTH is assigned to the senior trial
staff of the Circuit Attorney’s office in St. Louis. He
specializes in prosecution of major felonies and career
criminals.

BLAINE R. KEMETHER is a Senior security officer for
Playboy at Great Gorge, N.J.

JAY H. KERN earned a private law practice with the
New Orleans firm of Simon, Peragine, Smith and
Redfearn in March 1979. He had spent three years in
the construction litigation section of the Louisiana
Department of Justice. Kern lives in Jefferson.

In the summer of 1981, J. JASON MATTHEWS will
complete his tour at the embassy in Athens as a
research analyst for the Department of Defense. He
expects another four year tour for the State Depart-
ment somewhere in Western Europe.

FREDERICK W. WoopwakrbD III is a senior account
representative in the aviation/aerospace division of
Marsh and McLennan, Inc., insurance brokers in
New York.

MALCOLM H. Squires Jr. (See 1970.)
29

CLASS NOTES

E. STARKE SYDNOR (See 1966.)

1974

MARRIAGE: TEMPLETON SMITH JR. and Lea Eliza-
beth Anderson on Aug. 2, 1980. Alumni attending
the wedding included Fred Spangler, ’74, Ted Mer-
rick, ’76, Tom Armstrong, ’75, Steve Heinecke, ’74,
and Bill Driscoll, ’76. Smith is associated with the
Pittsburgh law firm of Rose, Schmidt, Dixon, Hasley,
Whyte and Hardesty. His wife is a graduate of West
Virginia University and its law school.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. MorGan O. DOoo_itTLE III, a
daughter, Erin Elizabeth, on Feb. 3, 1981, in Avon,
Conn.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RALPH E. GARNER, a daugh-
ter, Dorothea Elizabeth, on Aug. 27, 1980, in Win-
ston-Salem, N.C. Garner acquired a private pilot’s
license in September.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RICHARD H. METCALF, ason,
Prescott Witman, on Feb. 5, 1980, in Mechanicsburg,
Pa. Metcalf is a reporter for The Patriot-News in
Harrisburg. |

DENNIS C. GILCHRIST became a partner in the Green-
ville, S.C., law firm of Leatherwood, Walker, Todd
and Mann on Jan. 1, 1981.

JOHN S. LALLEY JR. is an assistant vice president in
the International Division of Maryland National Bank
in Baltimore and is responsible for multinational and
Canadian business development.

Dr. WILLIAM R. LAROSA Jr. will begin a plastic
surgery residency in July 1981.

PauL D. WILBER (See 1971.)

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDMOND B. (TED) GREGORY
Ill, a second daughter, Jane Brodie, on Jan. 22,
1981. Gregory is with Linton Shafer and Co., an
accounting firm in Frederick, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS HERBERT HUNT, a
son, Taylor Flynn, on Oct. 14, 1980. Hunt is engaged
in oil and gas production with the Hunt Energy Cor-
poration in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Gary R. KNICK, a daughter,
Stacy, on May 25, 1980, in Martinsburg, W.Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR., ason,
Joseph Edward III, on Nov. 11, 1980, in Rochester,
Minn.

ROBERT K. BAILEy III earned his master’s degree in
public administration at George Washington Univer-
sity. He is working in Virginia Beach as an account
manager and assistant auditor for Ford Motor Credit.

SAMUEL M. BELL is in his second year of a graduate
business administration program at the Graduate

30

School of Business of Columbia University in New
York City.

Mark V. Corey is an insurance agent working on
commercial and personal property casualty in the
greater Pittsburgh area.

RICHARD R. COUNCILL earned his M.B.A. from the
University of Baltimore in June 1980. He is employed
at the Marine Office of America in Towson, Md.

WILLIAM E. FoRLAND Jr. is a buyer for Boeing
Aerospace Co. in Omaha, Neb.

PauL L. GoRSUCH graduated from Thomas Jefferson
Medical College in May 1980. He is an intern at the
University of California at San Francisco’s program
in Fresno. He plans to start a neurosurgery residency
in 1982.

CARLYLE GreEGory JR. has formed his own political
consulting firm which worked in three 1980 congres-
sional races. He is currently employed as a field
director by the National Republican Congressional
Committee and is responsible for coordinating party
efforts in 43 congressional races in 1982.

ANGELICA DipDiER LLoyp has been promoted to as-
sistant general solicitor by the Norfolk and Western
Railway in Roanoke.

TAVENNER C. LUPTON III is working for Republic
National Bank in Dallas.

MARK S. REIFSLAGER was a delegate to the four-
month long International Conference on Vedic
Science, held in Delhi, India. He is co-chairman of
the TM Program in Austin, Texas.

DaviD E. SHAFFNER has joined the C.P.A. firm of
Daniel, Pulliam, McKee and Company in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

STEVE VAN AMBURGH is in the blasting and explo-
sives business in Dallas.

FRANK L. (BUZ) WALTERS is vice president for tax
investments with Bache Halsey Stuart Shields, Inc.,
in San Francisco. The position involves coordination
of marketing of real estate and oil and gas investments
in the western region. He and his wife, Marianne,
live in Menlo Park, Calif.

Capt. JOEL A. WILLIAMS is senior defense counsel
with the U.S. Army Trial Defense Service in
Schweinfurt, West Germany.

1976

MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL B. HUBBARD and CLARA S.
SMITH, ’81L, on Aug. 9, 1980. Hubbard practices
with the firm of Maurice F. Biddle in Flint Hill, Va.

MARRIAGE: JOSEPH WALKER II and Tracie Elizabeth
Owens on Dec. 6, 1980, in Summerton, S.C. Attend-
ing the wedding were Claude M. Walker, ’41, Claude

M. Walker Jr., ’71, Robert C. Walker, ’38, Joseph
Walker Jr., °34, and classmates Julian J. Nexsen,
Scott M. Stevenson, Alan W. Pettigrew, G. Cleveland
McGehee III, and J. Lee Keiger III. The couple lives
in Columbia where Walker is employed by Joseph
Walker and Co. cotton merchants.

BIRTH: RICHARD T. WOULFE and his wife, L. Susan
Holden, ason, Gregory Douglas, on Nov. 4, 1980, in
Miami.

WILLIAM R. CoGar, formerly with Interstate Securi-
ties Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., has moved to Houston
where he is associated with Rotan Mosle, Inc., in
their corporate syndicate department. Cogar is married
to the former Ruth Collins.

RusH S. DICKSON is finishing a phase in retail opera-
tions management for Harris-Teeter Supermarkets,
Inc., of Charlotte, N.C. As part of the program,
Dickson opened a grocery store in a renovated and
preserved railroad station in the historic downtown
section of Charleston, S.C. The renovation project
won the 1980 Carolopis Award of the Charleston
Preservation Society.

JEFF B. DUSEK is a deputy district attorney for San
Diego County. He and his wife have two daughters,
Jessica, 4, and Becky, 2.

HrraM E-y III has joined the Louisville, Ky., law
firm of Greenebaum, Doll and McDonald. He
specializes in business litigation.

H. MyNDERS GLOVER and his wife, Martha, now live
in Richmond where he is associated with The Com-
puter Company in a planning and marketing manage-
ment role. He finished his M.B.A. at the University
of Virginia in May 1980.

ROBERT C. KELLY is associated with the Columbia,
S.C., law firm of Robinson, McFadden, Moore, Pope
and Stubbs.

TERRENCE L. McCartTIN is production manager for
Finkel Outdoor Products, Inc., manufacturers of out-
door summer furniture in Jacksonville. He was dis-
charged from the Army in October 1980 as a captain.

Dr. RICHARD O. WHITAKER is a partner in the Ashby
Animal Clinic, Inc., of Harrisonburg, Va. He is a
food animal veterinarian specializing in cattle repro-
duction. He is currently performing embryo transfers
in cattle.

ROBERT R. ZyYBLUT is attending the University of
Denver Law School and specializing in judicial ad-
ministration.

1977
MARRIAGE: E. MorGAN MAxwkELt III and Jacque-
line H. Goodin on August 30, 1980. Classmates
attending included Jeff Morris, Mike Rowan, Ted
Grosser, Steve Greenhalgh, Jim Webster and Doug
Thomas, ’74, ’77L. Maxwell is associated with the
Cleveland law firm of Arter and Hadden. Maxwell

 

 

visited W&L’s School of Law in October 1980 as a
representative of the firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BrucE E. BRENNAN, a
daughter, Beth, on Sept. 26, 1980, in Washington.
Brennan is staff attorney for Lawrence Johnson and
Associates, a research firm. He handles the firm’s
government contract disputes and affirmative action
plans and works on a project dealing with nondis-
crimination against the disabled.

W. Mark BERTON handles felony prosecutions for
the Dodge County (Nebr.) attorney’s office. He lives
in Fremont.

DaviD MEsScHUTT’s article, ‘‘Gilbert Stuart’s Por-
traits of Thomas Jefferson,’’ was published in the
Winter 1981 issue of The American Art Journal.

American Express Co. has named ROGER P. RYDELL
manager of public relations for the travel division. He
is responsible for developing and implementing mar-
keting support and media relations programs.

1978

MARRIAGE: Kak G. BAKER and Kathleen Marie Fer-
enchak on June 6, 1980, in Elyria, Ohio. In the wed-
ding party were Paul Harris, ’78, Kevin Grimm, ’78,
Angelo Santella, ’77, and Rob Sartelle, ’79. Baker is
the executive systems analyst for Harris Intertype
Corp. in Elyria. In May 1981 he will receive an
M.B.A. and begin a doctorate program in law. Baker
was inducted into Phi Delta Kappa at Cleveland State
University and Delta Mu Delta honorary business
fraternity at Baldwin-Wallace College for his out-
standing academic performance.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL A. BOWMAN, a
daughter, Rebecca LeAnne, on July 6, 1980, in Mon-
ticello, Iowa.

JULIAN H. Goon Jr. has been promoted to general
merchandising coordinator and product manager for
the Resilio Sportswear division of Wembley Indus-
tries in New Orleans.

GEORGE F. GriFFIN IV works for Montgomery Real-
ty, a firm dealing in commercial real estate in Wash-
ington, Maryland, and Northern Virginia. He lives in
Bethesda.

PETER C. KEEFE is a registered representative for
Johnston, Lemon and Company, a brokerage firm, in
the Washington office.

R. BorcE McGrew has been elected an operations
officer of Trust Company Bank in Atlanta. McGrew
works with Junior Achievement and the DeKalb
County Chamber of Commerce.

DEREK C. Swopt is a partner in the Princeton, W.Va.,
law firm of Sanders & Austin.

1979

MARRIAGE: JOHN E. MCDONALD Jr. and Giovanna

Whitridge Forsyth on June 28, 1980, in Garrison
Forest, Md. Frederick J. Forsyth, ’81, the bride’s
brother, and John E. McDonald, ’54, father of the
groom, were members of the wedding party. They
live in Philadelphia where McDonald works for Proc-
ter and Gamble.

BIRTH: RICHARD P. GopDARD and his wife, Anne
Unverzagt, a son, Timothy Unverzagt on Oct. 22,
1980, in Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

RICHARD M. BARRON is an editorial assistant at the
Winston-Salem Journal.

ROBERT M. BuRKHOLDER is in his second year of law
school at American University.

MICHAEL J. Doopy is a financial analyst for a Wash-
ington consulting firm. He lives in McLean, Va.

FREDERICK L. A. FRANCK is a marketing representa-
tive for Continental Telephone System in western
North Carolina. He lives in Sylva.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV is enrolled in the master
of actuarial science program at Georgia State Univer-
sity in Atlanta. He has passed three parts of the
Society of Actuaries examinations and will graduate
in August. He will then start work as an actuarial
assistant.

C. STEPHEN JONES JR. has recently been promoted to
personnel manager for Burlington Sportswear at their
Mooresville, N.C., Plant.

M. TUCKER LaFFITTE is in his second year at the
Medical University of South Carolina. He was married
in July 1980 to Helen Harvey.

DONALD P. NOBLE is attending law school at the
University of Texas and will be a clerk for two San
Antonio firms during the summer.

J. WILLIAM PIERCE JR. is a second-year law student at
Mercer University.

JOHN S. PLOWDEN is a first-year student at the Medi-
cal College of Georgia in Augusta. He is also active
in Young Life, a high school Christian group, Plow-
den taught fifth and sixth grade science at Holy Inno-
cents Episcopal School in Atlanta last year.

LYNNE E. PRyMaS is an associate with the Washington
law firm of Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering.

DIANNE GIBSON RINGER is an assistant Common-
wealth’s Attorney for the city of Portsmouth, Va.

ANDREW T. SANDERS JR. recently finished work in
the correspondent bank and cash management division
of First and Merchants National Bank in Richmond,
Va. He has completed over a year in their commercial
management training program.

JOHN P. STAFFORD works for Brooks Brothers in
Pittsburgh and is actively involved at the Fox Chapel
Presbyterian Church.

JAMES A. TOMMINS is a marketing representative for
West Point Pepperell in the Dallas office with respon-
sibility for retail accounts in Texas, Oklahoma and
Arkansas. He joined the firm in October 1979 in New
York and moved to Dallas in February 1980.

In June 1980 DouGLas K. WILLIs became an advisory
marketing representative for IBM in the Baltimore
central branch office.

MICHAEL B. HUBBARD (See 1976.)

1980

In the fall of 1981, JACQUELYN K. BoyDEN will
become an associate in the litigation section of the
Fairfax law firm of McCandlish, Lillard, Church and
Best.

ROBERT C. CAMPBELL is working for Citizens First
National Bank of New Jersey.

SALLY PRUETT FALCK is associated with the New
York law firm of Satterlee and Stephens.

THOMAS E. Goss Jr. is employed by Shearson Loeb
Rhoades, Inc., a security and commodity exchange
firm in Cleveland.

JOHN C. HAMILTON is in the management training
program of First National Bank of South Carolina in
Columbia.

JAMES E. MENDOZA works in the computer systems
division of the Harris Corp. in the Fort Lauderdale
area.

JESSE M. SHAVER III is working on an M.B.A. at the
University of Chicago School of Business.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1912

RUSSELL BRUCE WINE, an attorney in San Antonio,
died Jan. 9, 1981. A native of Broadway, Va., he
began his law practice in the Circuit Court of Rock-
ingham County. Due to his father’s health, the family
moved to San Antonio in 1913. Wine practiced law in
San Antonio for over 60 years, as assistant U.S.
Attorney for the Western District of Texas for four
years, and as U.S. Attorney under President Eisen-
hower. He was with the Bexar County District Attor-
ney’s office for four years. Wine received several
certificates from the Texas State Bar. During World
War I he was a captain in the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s office. He was a member of the Selective
Service Board for 15 years. A master Mason, Wine
became worshipful master in 1939-40. He was past
high priest of Burleson Lodge #21 and a past district
deputy grand master of Texas Masons. He was a
member of the American and Texas Bar Associations
and the Commandery #7 Knight Templar.

3]

IN MEMORIAM

1917

JAMES W. JONES SR., chairman of the board of Jones-
Cox Mortgage Corp. of Dallas, died Feb. 3, 1981. He
was past president of the Dallas Mortgage Bankers
Association and the Texas Mortgage Bankers Asso-
ciation. For a number of years he was on the board of
governors of the Mortgage Bankers Association of
America and was athletic director at Sam Houston
State University for 13 years.

1919

TAZEWELL BUCHANAN, a former partner of the
Richmond law firm of Scott and Buchanan and former
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Goochland County,
died July 3, 1979. Tazewell served with the Army in
World War I.

1921

Dr. JOSEPH PATRICK TRECCASE, of Glenshaw, Pa.,
died Jan. 7, 1981. He received his degree from the
Medical College of Virginia and practiced in Butler.
He served as a lieutenant colonel in World War II and
was associated with the Veterans Administration until
his retirement in 1975.

1922

CHARLES HUNTER WATKINS, who retired in 1964
after 37 years with Manufacturer’s Hanover Bank,
died Nov. 15, 1980, in Richmond, Va. Watkins was
a member of the World War I Student Army Training
Corp, Company B, at Washington and Lee.

1925

CHARLES IRVEN HEARTT, a retired employee of the
North Carolina Fire Insurance Rating Bureau, died
Aug. 24, 1980, in Raleigh.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON, a nationally known com-
mercial and trial lawyer from Meridian, Miss., died
in Houston, on Feb. 8, 1981, the day after having
been presented a Fifty-Year Award in honor of his
legal career by the American Bar Foundation.
Witherspoon was a founder and early president of
Scribes, the American Society of Writers on Legal
Subjects. He was also a former associate editor of the
Commercial Law Journal. In 1979 Witherspoon re-
ceived the Lawyer Citation Award from the Missis-
sippi State Bar in honor of his career. He was presi-
dent of the state bar in 1951 and the Lauderdale
County Bar in 1943. Witherspoon was president of
the Meridian Downtown Kiwanis Club and was
governor of Kiwanis International for the Louisiana-
Mississippi-West Tennessee district in 1964.

1926

MEYER Lu GOODMAN, a retired executive of Good-
man & Co., aCPA firm in Norfolk, Va., died Feb. 9,
1981. After graduation from W&L Goodman joined
the staff of A. Lee Rawlings & Co., and remained
with them until August 1932. From 1932 until 1945
he was associated with the firm of Jackson, Goodman
& Co. He dissolved that partnership and was in private

a2

practice until Goodman & Co. was formed. Goodman
was a member of the Virginia Society of Public
Accountants and a fellow of the American Institute of
Accountants.

1928

BURNELL BUTLER TIPs of Kenedy, Texas, died Nov.
20, 1980. While at Washington and Lee Tips was an
outstanding member of the football team. He was a
long-time resident and rancher in Kenedy.

1929

EVERETTE HARRIS GEE, a retired tobacconist, died
Feb. 9, 1981, at his home in Fuquay-Varina, N.C.
Harris was a retired vice president of the North State
Tobacco Co., Inc. For many years he had been em-
ployed with the International Planters Corp. of Rich-
mond, Va., and Fairmont, N.C.

JAMES NATHAN HARsH died Jan. 6, 1981, in Destin,
Fla. Harsh had been ill for some years. He had been in
the contracting business.

ROBERT LEE HEARNE of Petersburg, Va., a retired
executive of Brown/Williamson Tobacco Corp., died
Dec. 5, 1980.

1931

FRED COOLEDGE PACE, a one-time employee of Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Co., died in Pinehurst, N.C., on
Aug. 18, 1980. Pace was also a priest in the Episcopal
Church.

WILLIAM C. WAGNER, Chairman of the board and
former president of York Bank and Trust Co., died
Dec. 22, 1980, in York, Pa.

 

1934

LUTHER ANDERSON GALYON, a Knoxville, Tenn.,
businessman, civic leader, and onetime lawyer, died
Jan. 23, 1981, after a long illness. He was president
of the Tennessee Eastern Lumber Co. Galyon gradu-
ated from the University of Tennessee Law School
and joined the firm of Poore, Kramer and Overton.
After World War II he rejoined the firm but soon left
to join his father-in-law in the lumber business. He
was a member of the board of Presbyterian Hospital.

1938

WILLIAM HERBERT HILLIER, a partner in the Chicago
law firm of Lord Bissell & Brook and a former
member of the Alumni Board of Directors, died March
12, 1981. Hillier obtained his law degree from the
University of Michigan where he was editor-in-chief
of the law review and a member of the Order of the
Coif. He was a director of Central Du Page Hospital
in Winfield, Ill., and the Beverly Farm Foundation in
Godfrey. He was a retired lieutenant colonel from the
Army where he received the Silver and Bronze Stars,
the Purple Heart and the Croix de Guerre.

1939

Dr. WILLIAM WESLEY GROVER JrR., a physician in
Bonduel, Wis., died Jan. 10, 1981. Grover was a
member of the Bonduel Clinic. He was also a former
member of the boards of the Bonduel Community
School, the Northeast Wisconsin Health Systems
Agency, and the Emergency Medical Services Coun-
cil.

WILLIAM WATSON Mayor Jr., who retired in 1976
after 32 years with Sears Roebuck Co., died Sept. 7,
1980.

THOMAS C. NUGENT JrR., president of Nugent Sand
Co. of Louisville, Ky., died Feb. 28, 1981, while
vacationing in the British West Indies. Nugent began
working with the company in 1937 and became presi-
dent in 1941. He was a director of the National Sand
and Gravel Association.

1942

CARLYLE BENTON ROSEN, a former automobile
dealer in Leesburg and Herndon, Va., died Feb. 14,
1981. During World War II he was in the Navy.

1943

ALBERT DANIEL TULL, an attorney in Cartersville,
Ga., died Nov. 25, 1980. Tull was a former alderman,
recorder and juvenile court referee for the city.

1967

THOMAS COOPER MOON Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla.,
vice president of Moon Furniture Co., died on Feb. 6,
1981. He received the B.A. and M.A.T. degrees in
history and political science at Jacksonville Univer-
sity. He was a member of the Sons of the Con-
federacy, Phi Alpha Theta honor society, and River-
side Baptist Church.

 

 

 

 

 

The steeple of Lee Chapel is reflected in the Washing-
ton and Lee Mirror with Ahern hand-tinted print
matted at the top. The mirror is available with frame
finished in French gold or Colonial cherry.

Now available .. .

Panoramic Prints
Of the Front Campus
Of Washington and Lee

A sweeping, delicately rendered view of Washington
and Lee’s historic Front Campus, drawn by artist Rich
Ahern, is available in hand-tinted full color or in black
and white and in two sizes. It is also available com-
bined with a handsome mirror with frame finished in
French gold or Colonial cherry. These prints and the
mirror will complement both traditional and con-
temporary homes. Shipped by U.P.S.

MIRROR—Outside measurements 15 by 24%,
(mirror itself 14 by 17%), frame in French
gold or Colonial cherry, hand-tinted print
matted at the top ................0eeeeeeeee es 125.00
(Add $12.50 for shipping)
SMALL PRINT—Outside measurements
17 by 8 Hand-tinted Color—double

matted and shrink wrapped ................$ 29.75
Color Print only .................:eeeeeeeeee BD 18.50
Black and White ..................:..20020-3 5.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)

LARGE PRINT—Outside measurements 27% by 10%
Hand-tinted Color—double matted and

shrink wrapped .............:.::eeceeeeeeeeeD 56.20
Color Print only ..................cc0eeeeeeeeB 32.50
Black and White ......................02202.-9 8.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.
Make checks payable to the Washington and Lee Bookstore.

Send your order to:

The Bookstore
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

The Alumni M agazine of Second Class Postage Paid
i At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

CF

 

  
         

  

&
ws
™
.

9 @ @ e x
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc. 2
Presents... io

<x 2

One
o =>

ad
woe
(= < ©
—<eoeF
& =
2 =
eee
pENe

August 19-26, 1981
Dulles Departure :

FOR-ONLY... =>

$599.00 ~ ==

Per person-double occupancy

   

ty
- — *
pr

       
    

>

My WRAY)
en —— ee ki aL
YOUR TRIP INCLUDES: fe er Et bee] een
QO Round trip jet transportation to Idaho Falls, Idaho via United Airlines’ DC-8 aircraft (meals and GR 7 uote tl 7, |
beverages served aloft). 1. Deluxe accommodations forfour nights in Sun Valley, Idaho at the mag- a
nificent Sun Valley Resort LodgeandInn.* O Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring
white water rafti ng andtroutfries. [© Deluxe motorcoach transfer from Sun Valley to West Yellow- For further information and
stone, Montana via the Craters of the Moon National Park. O Charming western accommodations reservation coupon, contact:
in West Yellowstone for three nights.* 1 Exciting low-cost optional tours available featuring Yellow- W.C. Washburn, Washinaton
stone National Park. 1 All gratuities for bellmen and chambermaids. 0 Allround trip transfers and a . ‘ g :
luggage handling from airport to hotels. 0) Pre-registration at hotels. Arthurs Travel’s Sun Valley/ and Lee University Alumni,
Yellowstone National Park Travel Tips. O Free time to pursue your own interests. No regimentation. Inc. Lexington, Virginia
CJ) Experienced tour directors and hotel hospitality desks, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site teamof 24450 PHONE:(703) 463-9111
professionals. *Some trips will be four nights Yellowstone National Park/three nights Sun Valley. EXTENSION 214

  
 
  
  

   
  
 
 

  

 

 

 

 

Wedgwood plates in sets of four different scenes:

WASHINGTON Lee Chapel; Washington College (1857); Lee-Jack-

AND son House; Washington College (contemporary).
Available in blue only.

LEE Price: $100.00 including shipping charges.

COMMEMORATIVE Send order and check to

PLATES Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

