NOVEMBER 1983

 

 

 

 

oe

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 58, Number 7, November 1983

Frank A. Parsons, 54 ........... 00... cc eee ees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna..................... Associate Editor
Robert Fure’srrre re oo or oercrrrres: Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter .......... ccc eee ees Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas ..................... Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ................... Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Coeducation on the Table ..................... 1
“Taking Thought on Coeducation” ............. 5
Honored Benefactors ............00 cece ee eee’ 14
Securing the NFL .............. 0. eee eee eee 16
Four New Trustees ............ 0.0 e eee eens 20
Bronze Age Computers ............ 000s 21
WEL Gazette 0... cc eee eee eens 22
Alumni Leadership Conference ................ 34
Surface, Girard (Re)United ................006- 37
Chapter News .......... 22. cece ee eee eee eens 39
Class Notes .........0.ccceccccecssectebeeees 42
In Memoriam .............. ce eee eee erences 47
And furthermore. . . Letters to the Editor ....... 48

Type for this magazine was set by equipment provided to the Univer-
sity through the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston,
Texas.

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Allcommunications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1983, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
President

WILLIAM C. NoRMAN Jr., 56, Crossett, Ark.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DuUBOsE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, 44, Lynchburg, Va.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OwFEN H. Harper, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM McCuInTocx III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, 50, New York City
Henry NOor}tTserc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rice M. TitLey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, 62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: On October 22, the Washington and Lee
University Board of Trustees officially dedicated a wall-size
marble tablet that recognizes benefactors whose gifts, because
of their size, have been particularly significant to the Univer-
sity. This close-up view of the wall, located in the reception area
of Washington Hall, was photographed by W. Patrick Hinely.
See story on page 14.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

        

 

 

   

 

  

 
 

 

   

    

President Wilson was interviewed by Lem Tucker of the CBS
Evening News staff.

 

“We hardly got past salad when the question of coeduca-
tion invariably arose?’ Wilson said. “I have never seen a com-
munity so intoxicated with the subject as the Washington and
Lee community seemed to be when I arrived here last
January.’

From the day he was named president in September 1982,
Wilson has been asked the question countless times. He has
been asked by the press, by students, by faculty, by alumni, by
everyone.

In late September he was asked by a newspaper reporter
who happens to be an alumnus. Interviewed by Newport
News Daily Press writer Phil Murray, ’83, Wilson said that “I
want to put the question of coeducation to rest by May—one
way or another ... . I will either ask the Board of Trustees to
approve a change or tell them that we should remain all-male
at the undergraduate level?’

Wilson’s remarks were duly reported in a front page story
of that paper on October 2. The wire services picked up the
story, and it ran in newspapers literally all over the country.

The result was a flurry of on-campus debate, not unlike
the debates that surrounded the University’s deliberations on
the subject in both 1969 and 1975. Banners were unfurled on
fraternity houses, ‘“‘Better Dead Than Coed?’ Ol’ George
became part of the forum when a sign proclaiming “‘No Mar-
thas” was draped around the statue.

Letters to the Ring-tum Phi explored every aspect of the
situation.

Less than a week after that article appeared, CBS-I'V cor-
respondent Lem Tucker came to the campus to interview
Wilson as part of a story on the few remaining all-male col-
leges. CBS’ focus appeared to be primarily on Hampden-
Sydney College but W&L was included as an all-male college
that had begun again to evaluate its position in that regard.

And no doubt this is just the beginning.

When the representatives to the Alumni Leadership Con-
ference arrived on the campus in mid-October, the debate was
already in progress. Coeducation was not on the conference
agenda. But given the publicity climate, those topics that
were on the agenda tended to touch on that issue one way or
another.

Those alumni in attendance heard all sides of the ques-
tion from the demographic figures forecasting a precipitous
decline in the number of college age students over the next 10
years to some student opinions that the gains would not be
worth the losses in terms of the traditions and ineffable quali-
ty of the University. They discussed everything from plusses
and minuses in the social life to plusses and minuses in the
classroom.

In the end, it was left to President Wilson to put the cur-
rent debate in perspective in the final session of the three-day

 

5 bake posed i it apol :

opening Pandora’ s box.

“T know some of y
especially from up
ple taking up this cros
to take pleasure in raising
before me, do ormant,
much on peoples’ minc

“In resident (Ge

hington and)

Francis Pendleton Gaines had to revisit t]

ed around a col
I really do supp

 

few years, but very much on
peoples’ minds.

 

 

worried about main
stin

e

ive feature,’ _

 

projections.

before us. Dur interest is solely . ocused
upon ways to improve the qua ity of our
academic and social life at Washin

and Lee in the years

 

 

propri tev

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“he coeducation question is an old one at Wa:
and Lee. It has arisen on many past occasions, in President

ing President Ht
should not have

 

  

    

     

 

    

‘Taking Thought on Coeducation’

“distorted” pedagogical forms. I read them all in that
decade, the specious and the thoughtful alike. I even con-
tributed a paragraph or two in defense of the single-sex col-
lege for women. This defense, I might add, is probably still
valid, for it is predicated upon a particular social condition
shared by women. It is not an argument with universal
application.

Still, the reports were published, faculties and trustees
debated the matter at great length and alumni and alumnae
wrote strong letters, usually against change, but sometimes
for it. The transition began and it was sweeping. Yale’s and
Williams’ decisions were initially important but they were
quickly followed by decisions at Princeton, Amherst, Dart-
mouth, Bowdoin, Davidson, Sewanee and all the rest, in-
cluding such conservative places as Notre Dame and Holy
Cross. The few public universities with single-sex character
changed in the sixties probably only months before court
decisions would have compelled change not voluntarily
taken. Our own decision to admit women to degree can-
didacy in the Law School was, I gather, conditioned in part
by the recognition that the American Bar Association and
related professional organizations would not long grant ac-
creditation to schools and colleges not open to talent
regardless of race, religion or sex.

The women’s colleges were caught in a tight web during
this period. They knew that their chief justification lay in
the social stereotyping that had restricted opportunities for
women for centuries in the West. A college devoted to help-
ing women develop their talents and their self-confidence
apart from the dominating presence of men was thought to
be still valid, even as it was in mid-nineteenth century when
most women’s colleges were established. But everyone knew
that that validity had a finite lifespan, that it would lose its
strength as women earned and were granted larger roles in
American professional and corporate life. Beyond this (as
Vassar would prove), it was widely acknowledged that
women’s colleges did not have the same clear choice as did
their male counterparts. The daughters of Yale men would
gladly enroll in New Haven. The sons of Vassar mothers
would be more hesitant about Poughkeepsie, except on the
weekend.

And so a dramatic change occurred in American col-
legiate life in little over fifteen years. Some still believe that
that change was a reflection of a pernicious permissiveness,
that it had mainly to do with sexual relationships. In fact,
as now we clearly know, it was a reflection of a profound
and permanent change in the way we look at and think
about each other, men and women alike, in this country. We
are no longer content to suppose that nursing and teaching
and clerical positions are the only honorable avenues for

6

 

women who wish to work outside the home (40 percent of
the workforce). All our professions are now open to talent
and in increasing numbers women are entering through
doors only recently opened and are excelling in their work.
In short, we are not dealing with a fad (as only now we
know) but with a significant, permanent change in
American society.

We should probably note that this change is not confin-
ed to these shores. The men’s colleges of Oxford and Cam-
bridge admitted women for the first time, after centuries of
acknowledged success, in the early seventies. The signs of
change on the continent are visible, but not as pronounced
as in England and America. At Washington and Lee we ad-
mitted, last year, women students from both Japan and
Hong Kong in our exchange program, something unheard
of, I’m sure, just a few years ago. |

All of this massive shifting in social attitudes has had

 

 

oe

Pp ositi

would not st
ridic!

 

men is our

nce of a

 

         

 

   

 

   

 

 

   

 

    
   

 
   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

   

eatly, even under the most humane. - - /
IC volicies. Our distinctive edges — |

 

 

  

red in the places
y homes where

 
   
 
    
 
   
 
     
 

 

 

 

   

 

 

hand or unwelcome ¢ change on nthe other? Perhaps we can.
Perhaps we can wring still further yield from t
purchased names of young men we now s
the beginning of each recruitment
usefully

off point we now establish with
purchased lists. Perhaps we ca!
interest in single-sex educat

 

 

.

    
 
   
   
 
 
    

   

larger admissions staf
young men in the top

   
    

 

 

   

i

are successful, a
s is patently unac-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

know is that where today there are four high school seniors,
tomorrow there will be three. From this brute fact, we are
obliged to extrapolate the future shape and character of
Washington and Lee.

C]

I have already implied that student numbers and their
implications for our quality and our program and our
morale, form only the base of the pyramid. There are other
matters we must consider. In the following sections of this
report I will try to indicate what these are in the briefest
possible form.

1. The Academic Environment

Most members of the faculty, including faculty who are
alumni of Washington and Lee, favor the admission of
women because they deeply believe this decision will

heighten the quality of the work conducted in the Universi-
ty’s classrooms and laboratories. They believe this because
they know young women at 18 are more mature, generally
speaking, than young men of the same age. They tend to be
more thorough in preparation, more fluent and articulate.
These are initial advantages conferred solely by different
modes of maturation.

The faculty (not all, but many) also believe that women
have a point of view, a way of looking at human experience,
which is especially valuable in certain areas of serious
study. Specifically mentioned have been criminal law,
literature and the arts, sociology and anthropology, religion
and politics. I am sure these are but idiosyncratic observa-
tions and that to the extent we can define feminine and
masuline perspectives, each would be valued in most fields
save the severely quantitative.

The faculty also believe that women students would
materially strengthen our academic work in music, drama
and the other fine arts through participation in perfor-
mance. This contention is beyond argument.

The admissions staff believe that opening places to
women will improve the academic and extracurricular
records of a// of our matriculants, men and women alike. It
would, in effect, open up two new and large pools of ap-
plicants, the pool of women and the pool of men who do
not now apply because they prefer a coeducational setting.

Finally, many faculty anticipate that an unlooked-for
liability of our current status could be corrected by the ad-
mission of first-rate women students. The liability referred
to is the unarticulated lesson we inadvertently teach our
young men about women: that they are to be seen as attrac-
tive, pleasant companions on social occasions, but in-
capable of serious intention or serious work. I do not know
how accurate this may be. The Princeton faculty were
especially persuaded of its validity and were equally per-
suaded that, given the advent of professional careers for
women, it was unwise to educate men to think in older ways
about women—that it could, in short, prepare them poorly
for the colleagueship they would inevitably share with
women after graduation.

Against these views one must deal with the “doctrine of
distraction;’ that is, the argument that men and women
cannot shelve their sexual natures and therefore should
separate themselves when concentrating on other, com-
plicated things. Given the fact that nine of ten of us go
through twelve school years in shared classrooms and the
added fact that most of us will, after graduation, share the
work place with the opposite sex, I do not think the
“distraction” argument has much cogency. (I assume a de-
cent standard of dress.)

‘Taking Thought on Coeducation”

2. The Social Environment

Most alumni of Washington and Lee would not
recognize the shape of social life as it is presently con-
ducted. Going “‘down the road”’ is a familiar phrase to be
sure, but it does not clarify how things have been altered
over the recent years. So, too, the ‘‘work hard, play hard”’
cycle, cited by graduates from decades ago—and still cited
today.

The rhythm of social life, by all sound testimony, is very
different today. It is more intense, more extensive and far
less subject to constraint. There are many more cars, both
here and at the women’s colleges. There are many more
weekday occasions for traveling to Hollins or Sweet Briar
or to have guests travel to Lexington.

The reason for this is subtle, I think, and I may have it
wrong. But I believe it has to do with a change in dating
patterns. The typical fraternity party at Washington and
Lee does not consist of fraternity members and their invited
guests. It consists of an open house where uninvited
carloads of women arrive and join with other uninvited
men. Two or three parties on the same evening pit the
houses against each other in a competition to see who can
draw the largest number of the uninvited pool of visitors.
And the pattern is repeated at the other neighboring
schools. Each one tends to stake out an evening when it will
have the best chance of drawing the best crowd. This must
be accompanied by expensive investments in live bands,
fancy entertainment, etc., etc.

This pattern repeats itself throughout the year. It is by
no means all bad. There is a refreshing side to open parties
with men and women equally free to take the initiative, to
make choices about where and when and with whom they
will spend their time. But the negative side is compelling. It
includes the unearned monopoly of social life by the frater-
nity system. It includes the single-faceted character of most
social gatherings—large parties, loud music and much
alcohol. It includes much too much movement by car, late
at night, over dangerous roads in midweek.

The admission of women as degree candidates would
not “cure” this condition. The fraternities would still have
open parties, I’m sure, and there would be no fewer cars.
There would, however, be opportunity for men and women
to meet each other in the snackbar, in the gymnasium,
along the Colonnade after class and not, almost exclusively,
in a crowd of drinking friends and strangers.

It would also, likely, increase our chances of becoming a
more residential university, with fewer people leaving on the
weekend and far more around and able to support our co-
curricular life. I would hope and expect that our concert

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

and decide for themselves. Women as legacies, however,
could help to Keep our ¢ con ntinuity of family support i in,

     
   

  
 
 

 
  

    
 

  
 

     
 

    

 
     
 

7 _ women philanthror D saw who have so materially assisted the
ture. Nonecanbe University i in the past. ee
en prompted by ex Oo oO
Ityandstaffat The call for significant change is never welcome. It car-
tutions formerly ries risks, even dangers. It requires a measure of presump-

   
    
 

|. Professor Albert |

   

tion, if not courage. How dare we take on the uninvited

    
 

students but

  

 

 

 

 

   

sender ¢ or whether it would grow in sor
ainarem way, should es be

    
 
  
 

 
  
 

  

hoo principals, coaches,
nts themselves identify our all-male
, OF at least, a neutral factor in the

if ferent experience, suf fici
the sentiment? I must leave tk

   

 

      

 

      

     

   

    

 

 

    

 
  
 
 
 
 

 

  

we “should not persist in
to want?’ We can be

quoted as having once said that '

offering a choice that no one
grateful that it has not come to tl

oe

  
 
 

. choice (i.e., the choice ofa first-rate hi

 

 

- undergraduate, residential university of small size and large
reputation) but it isa a choice not aided d by on all-male

  
  

 

 

 

  

\

 

 

 

  
  
   
 
  
 

s. ‘Suppose we rem
1, that i 1s, ¢ over the

 

ity to counter ©
den-Sydney, |
no doubt that

 

 

 

a ‘or = nger and more confident and more responsi-. _ would inevitably be small. The five colleges would probably
7 — (Barnard and Col-

  
 

 

decision woul
reform, it wol

   

 

on any of the University’s
the question of size, i.e,
Until that t question is asked

 
  

    
 
 

 
 
 

very lit
leges acadet > mi
ford and |

 
    

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

curricular life. Coeducation is not thought necessary to
achieve the presence of women in Lexington, but, rather, to
change the conditions of that presence in positive ways.

5. Coeducation will force Washington and Lee to grow
significantly beyond the intimate scale it now enjoys.

This fear has cogency, for I believe it true to say that
much of what we most value at Washington and Lee turns
upon its relatively small size. Small classes banish anonymi-
ty and make possible all sorts of academic work (e.g.,
writing and critical dialogue) too seldom seen in large lec-
tures. Students now enjoy full access, to classes of their
choice and to informal contact with faculty. These are in-
valuable and anything we do must keep them paramount.

On the other hand I have a visceral feeling that we
would not be wise to drop male enrollments below the
threshold of 1,000 students. Our current athletic and other

commitments seem likely to require a “critical mass” of ap-
proximately this size. Were we to admit women and ap-
plicants of the first rank permitted the enrollment of some
500 women by the end of the next decade, our
undergraduate population would total 1,500, with 350 in
the Law School. What would this do to our physical and
our pedagogical environment?

This is a question I cannot attempt to answer in this
summary paper. It would have to be studied carefully if the
Board concludes that the entire matter warrants serious re-
examination. My guess is that we could find ways to accom-
modate the additional staff required without building (cf.
32 University Place as an example). But there are other
matters, both physical and pedagogical, that would have to
be anticipated and accommodated during the process of
transition and I would not have us discount these.

LJ

I will conclude this long paper by repeating something
said at the outset. Coeducation is an issue at Washington
and Lee and a serious one. It has been part of our thinking
here for many years, acutely so in the past fifteen. My com-
ing to the presidency no doubt triggered a new intensity of
feeling on the subject (a) because I was new and my views
unknown (even unformed) and (b) because my coming
coincided with a sharpened sense of anxiety about our
future enrollments. Will we have the same quality and
number of students enrolled at Washington and Lee in 1993
as we have in 1983? If not, how many fewer and with what
diminished capacities? These are the deeply pragmatic
questions we have been asked to answer, are obliged to try
to answer. They form the new foundations upon which the
coeducation issue has been raised.

I do not discount the earlier concerns of the late sixties
and seventies. I think it important that we satisfy our
curiosity about these, especially now that we have at hand
the experience of our own students and faculty in the Law
School.

But there is no issue more important to the University
than the quality of the students who enroll. Nor is this a
merely relative matter. It has its absolute side, for upon it
will be determined if calculus will be offered to freshmen,
whether a senior thesis will be required, whether it is worth
trying to teach Kierkegaard in the sophomore level course.
In brief, what we are talking about is the level and
sophistication of the extended conversations we carry on
here—and upon that, in turn, rests the morale of the facul-
ty, the success of our graduates and the ultimate reputation
of the University. Nothing we do will be more important
than how we set about to insure the future quality of
Washington and Lee.

13

Honored Benefactors

Trustees Pay Tribute to the University’s Most Generous Supporters

Washington and Lee University has
created a ‘‘Benefactors Wall” that
recognizes those benefactors who have
made gifts of $1 million or more to the
University.

Located in the recently-redecorated
reception area of Washington Hall, the
wall-size marble was officially dedicated
during ceremonies on October 22.

‘““While we have a long history, this wall
is basically a 20th-century history of
Washington and Lee since the gifts
recognized here were made during this cen-
tury,” said James M. Ballengee, Rector of
the University’s Board of Trustees, during
the brief dedication ceremonies.

“On behalf of the entire Washington
and Lee family I want to express our heart-
felt thanks to these donors for the quality of
their benefactions, since they chose
Washington and Lee, as well as for the
quantity that this represents;’ Ballengee
added. “‘We make this dedication in remem-
brance of the University’s past but also in
celebration of its future?’

In 1978 the Board of Trustees ordered
the creation of an area in the University to
recognize visibly and permanently past and
future benefactions which, because of their
size, have been particularly significant to
Washington and Lee.

The Trustees established as the initial
standard for such recognition, gifts made
since the founding of the University which
were valued at the time of donation at $1
million or more.

As Ballengee noted, the gifts represented
by several of the names on the wall are easi-
ly identified by matching the names with
familiar landmarks on the campus—
duPont Hall, Lewis Hall, Doremus Gym-
nasium, Letitia Pate Evans Hall, the Hall
Law Library, the Reeves Center, Parmly
Hall, and the Warner Athletic Center.

Other benefactions recognized on the
Benefactors Wall are not seen in bricks and
mortar but their work can be found in the
person of students who attend the Universi-
ty on financial aid and in various other
ways.

Those donors whose names are on the
Benefactors Wall are:

eRobert Parker Doremus, a New York
stockbroker whose gifts to the University

14

were uSed in the construction of Doremus
Gymnasium and whose entire estate of $1.5
million was bequeathed to W&L;

e Jessie Ball duPont, a former Trustee
whose benefactions totaled some $7 million
and for whom duPont Hall is named;

eLetitia Pate Evans, a native Virginian
who was a generous benefactor of many in-
stitutions and whose gifts to W&L are
recognized by the naming of the dining hall
in her honor;

elouise H. and Euchlin D. Reeves,
whose priceless gifts of porcelain and pain-
tings are on display in the Reeves Center;

eWilbur C. Hall, who received an
honorary doctor of law degree in 1967 and
who left the bulk of his estate, $1.6 million,
to the University. The law library is named
in his honor.

eFrances and Sydney Lewis, whose $9
million gift in 1972 supported construction

   

Workmen apply finishing touches.

   

Patrick Hinely Photo

 

of a new law school building and establish-
ed a permanent endowment for a law center
and who have given more than $10.5 million
to W&L;

e Jonathan Westervelt Warner, who has
given more than $2.5 million to the Univer-
sity, including gifts through the David
Warner Foundation and whose gifts are
recognized in the naming of the Warner
Athletic Center;

eRichard E. Gooch, who left his estate
of $1.6 million to his alma mater. The lobby
in the Department of Journalism and Com-
munications is named in his honor;

eRuth Parmly made a $2 million gift to
W&L to strengthen the University’s pro-
grams in the sciences. The building housing
the biology, physics, and physics-engineer-
ing departments is named for her;

e John Lee Pratt bequeathed
Washington and Lee approximately $11
million in 1975 and specified that the
money be used to support faculty salaries
and student scholarships;

eMiriam Caperton Alexander McClure
honored her father and her husband, both
of whom received honorary degrees from
W&L, by making an unrestricted bequest of
$4.2 million, which represented the largest
single gift used for construction of the
University Library. The library lobby is
named in Mrs. McClure’s honor;

eMary Tyler and Leslie Cheek Jr. made
a unique gift to W&L in 1977 when they
gave Skylark, the 365-acre mountaintop
estate on the Blue Ridge Parkway in Nelson
County;

eEgbert B. Doggett, a 1914 graduate of
W&L, left his entire estate of $1.2 million to
the University and specified that the be-
quest establish a scholarship fund;

e]_izinka M. and F. Fox Benton Jr. made
a gift of $1.2 million to the University dur-
ing the 1971-81 Development Campaign and
requested that a portion of that gift support
an endowed professorship in honor and
memory of Dr. Lewis Whitaker Adams,
former dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics;

eFrank G. Young, who received
bachelor’s degrees in both commerce and
economics, has established an endowment
to support special projects in the depart-
ment of geology.

 

Charles Mason Photo

  

Charles Mason Photo

The Benefactors Wall was officially dedicated in
ceremonies conducted by Rector James M. Ballengee
and including remarks by both President John D.
Wilson and former President Robert E. R. Huntley
during the Board of Trustees’ meeting.

Charles Mason Photo

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Securing the NFL

Warren Welsh, ’61L, in the Forefront of Pro Football’s War on Drugs

NEW YORK—The National Football
League season was only one week old and
already Warren Welsh was looking for a
place to hide.

Nothing permanent, mind you. Just a
quiet place to escape the telephone’s inces-
sant ring, if only for a blessed moment or
two.

In search of solace, Welsh steers a visitor
through the maze of offices that comprise
the NFL headquarters, occupying two
floors of a Park Avenue office building.

Finally Welsh settles behind the desk in
a corner office that is momentarily vacant,
pauses to catch his breath and explains:
“Things are a little crazy around here
today:’

Such craziness is normal for Welsh.
Since he graduated from the Washington
and Lee School of Law in 1961, Welsh has
hardly lived the routine life of a nine to
fiver.

Consider the following lineup of
assignments he has had during the past 22
years:

eAs an FBI agent for eight years, he in-
vestigated organized crime in Miami and
civil rights demonstrations in Mississippi;

eAs the top man in the compliance and
practices department of the National
Broadcasting Company’s West Coast opera-
tion for five years, he made sure no
hankypanky was involved with everything
from the daily morning quiz shows to the
Miss America Pageant;

eAs asecurity officer for ITT for two
years, he traveled literally around the world
to keep the ITT network secure;

eAs director of security for Playboy
Enterprises for three years, he was charged
with everything from protecting Hugh
Hefner to hotel and casino security. (“I
shouldn’t admit this, but I was not in charge
of selecting Playmates of the Month;’ he
says);

eAs director of security for the
American Can Company for one year, he
was involved in designing a total security
program for a major corporation;

eAnd now as director of security for the
National Football League since 1980, Welsh:
has been in the forefront of the league’s ef-
forts to combat a highly-publicized drug : . a
problem. Warren Welsh in his office at NFL headquarters.

16

 

     

 

     

 

 
 
 
     
   
     
   
 
    
    

seem a rather outdated sentiment. Gone are
those olden days when the star athlete
drank milk and cheerfully signed |

autographs ar vit tee cian his

yo

y want to give the
e doubt by suggesting
L is no more and no

ple but when an FBI agent is investigating
someone, it is not necessarily a matter of
hiding behind lampposts, you talk to the

 
 

ou have in your people you are investigating?’ says Welsh,
is. If speaking now from his experiences of in-
walk out the.

vestigating — rime in the early

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securing the NFL

opportunistic and are not willing to let the
money side pass by. So now you have the
situation where a given organized crime
family or, criminals who are organized, are
involved in both bookmaking and drugs,
hand in hand?’

That, explains Welsh, poses the danger
of the following potential scenario: “A
player who is either a drug abuser or depen-
dent on drugs establishes a credit line.
Credit lines always have some kind of
limitations to them, ceilings. One night you
get a knock on the door, and it’s your
friendly drug dealer and he knows you can’t
pay or you would have paid before. And he
doesn’t really want money. Now you’re go-
ing to do something for him. You’re a
quarterback, so you’re going to overthrow a
receiver; you’re an end, so you’re going to
drop a pass; you’re a center, so you’re going
to foul up the snap.

“These are the things that can happen.
Fortunately for us they have not happened
that we are aware of, anyway. But those are
the real dangers?’

xk *k& *

When Warren Welsh entered
Washington and Lee as a freshman from
Detroit (a diehard Lions’ fan who played a
year of basketball), the University was play-
ing big-time football. It was between his
freshman and sophomore years at W&L
that the roof caved in.

The school was rocked by the well-
chronicled cheating scandal involving some
members of the football team. The decision
was made to end the subsidized program.
Welsh sees a parallel between what happen-
ed at Washington and Lee and what could
happen in the National Football League.

“That was a traumatic time in terms of
the individuals we all knew?’ Welsh
remembers. “I don’t recall that it was
necessarily traumatic in terms of losing big-
time football.

“But what it shows, on a very small
scale, is what can happen, how a very few
people can tarnish a very fine program. For-
tunately for Washington and Lee, there were
men around like Dean Gilliam and Dean
Leyburn who were so much a part of what
Washington and Lee stood for that they
were not going to let this, in a sense minor
negative event, have lasting impact on the

18

4

Former NFL star Carl Eller greets h

University. They were able to deal with it?’

Maybe that memory lurks somewhere in
the back of Welsh’s mind every summer
when he goes on the road for two months
for his annual tour of the NFL training
camps.

His first assignment with the NFL was
to make such a tour, visiting all 28 teams
and making his pitch to the 1500 players
who comprise the league. He warns them
that a few people can spoil it for everyone.
He tells them about some of the things they
will be exposed to, about the dangers of
drugs, about the dangers of gambling.

“We tell them how important it is for
them to conduct themselves in such a man-
ner that they are going to be a good reflec-
tion on themselves as well as the team
they’re representing and the league they
represent;’ Welsh says. “They have a great
privilege to play in the National Football
League.

“T tell them that if they get caught in-
volved in drugs that it will be pretty hard to
make their $150,000-a-year salary behind
bars?’

xk *k *

The sanctity of Welsh’s hiding place is
suddenly invaded by the telephone. There is
no place to hide. But at least this call does
not have anything to do with drugs. It is
another of the many security matters with
which Welsh must deal—a case of
impersonation.

   

igh school students after the Lee Chapel presentation.

““We get all involved in drugs and gambl-
ing and all these heavy things, but those are
not the only matters that concern us;’ says
Welsh.

The NFL security office actually deals
with a myriad of other matters.

There are the impersonations. Occa-
sionally some enterprising soul will find it
expedient to use a famous player’s name.
“Normally an impersonation case will have
to do with somebody at the local bar who
wants to impress a young lady and decides
that rather than use his own credentials he’ll
borrow the credentials of one of our
players;’ says Welsh. “‘It used to be he’d use
the player’s name, have a nice evening and
that would be the end of it. Now we're see-
ing that persons are impersonating our ball
players and getting involved in schemes that
deal with hundreds of thousands of
dollars?’

There are the game’s officials and there
is stadium security for individual games.
Welsh employs operatives in each NFL city
as “our eyes and ears” to monitor
everything from drastic changes in the
gamblers’ odds on a game to making certain
the game’s officials are in place and to
observing the individual game security.

There is the free service Welsh’s office
offers to everyone from players to equip-
ment managers of making background in-
quiries into potential business partners or
business entities. ““Our fellows are young

Charles Mason Photo

   

   

 

 
   
 
 

    

i itsh head i in n the sand.
“You can always do mo
“But we feel that we're on

      
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 
 

any

 

 

  

es

     
 

 

 

 

athletic director Bill McHenry, Welsh ar-—
ranged for a drug education prog rT
Washington and Lee campus, not just for
athletes but for all W&L students as well as"
students from Virginia Military Institute

 

 

and area high schools. _ ee
The plan was for Welsh to be joined i in |

Lexington by his wife, Lisa, and to spend —

weekend at his alma mater.

Homeco:

 
 

 

people do not underst.
drug abuse.
a most —

    

 

Four New Trustees

Mrs. Lewis, Gallivan, Rowe, Wolfe Elected

Washington and Lee University has an-
nounced the election of four new members
to its Board of Trustees.

The new members are:

e James F. Gallivan of Nashville, Tenn., a
1951 graduate of the University and a part-
ner in J. C. Bradford & Co.;

eFrances A. Lewis of Richmond, ex-
ecutive vice president of Best Products Co.,
Inc.;

eCharles S. Rowe of Fredericksburg,
Va., a 1947 graduate of Washington and
Lee and the editor and co-publisher of
The Free Lance-Star newspaper of
Fredericksburg;

eTom Wolfe of New York City, a 1951
graduate of the University and author of
The Right Stuff and other best-selling
books.

All four were elected to six-year terms on
the Board, effective January 1, 1984.

Gallivan received his bachelor of science
degree in finance from W&L. Formerly a
senior vice president of Commerce Union
Bank in Nashville, he is currently national
sales manager for J. C. Bradford.

Gallivan was a member of the Alumni
Board of Directors at Washington and Lee
from 1978 through 1982. He served as na-
tional president of the University’s Alumni
Association in 1981-82. He was elected to
the Trusteeship in a vote of the University’s
alumni.

Mrs. Lewis is a 1942 graduate of the
University of Michigan. She is married to
Sydney Lewis, chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of the Richmond-
based Best Products Co., Inc. The Lewises
have been generous benefactors of
Washington and Lee. The Frances Lewis
Law Center, inaugurated in the W&L law
school in 1972, is named in Mrs. Lewis’
honor.

She is a member of the boards of the
Whitney Museum of Art in New York City
and the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk, Va.
She is a member of the advisory board of
the Institute of Contemporary Art of the
University of Pennsylvania and a trustee of
the Virginia Environmental Endowment.

Rowe received his bachelor of arts
degree from W&L and attended the Univer-
sity’s law school for two years. He served
three years of active duty in the U.S. Navy

20

 

James F- Gallivan

Charles S. Rowe

during World War II and is a retired captain
in the U.S. Naval Reserve.

He is editor and co-publisher of The
Free Lance-Star. He is a past president of
the Associated Press Managing Editors
Association and has been a director of the
American Society of Newspaper Editors.

He is former chairman of AP Newspapers,
an associate of the Nieman Foundation,
and a 1974 recipient of the George Mason
award for distinguished service to Virginia
journalism. He was named outstanding
young man by the Fredericksburg Jaycees in
1958.

Wolfe received his bachelor of arts
degree from Washington and Lee and earn-
ed the Ph.D. from Yale. He has worked as a

 

Frances A. Lewis

Tom Wolfe |

reporter and writer for the Springfield
(Mass.) Union, the Washington Post, and
the New York Herald Tribune.

In addition to The Right Stuff, Wolfe is
the author of The Kandy-Kolored
Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby, The
Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, and The Pump
House Gang. One of the co-founders of
Washington and Lee’s literary quarterly,
Shenandoah, while a student at W&L,
Wolfe received an honorary degree from the
University in 1974.

Those Trustees who are retiring from the
Board are Sydney Lewis of Richmond,
Frank C. Brooks of Baltimore, E. Waller
Dudley of Alexandria, Va., and Jonathan
Westervelt Warner of Tuscaloosa, Ala.

 

 

 

 

  

 

A Washington and Lee University
history professor has tapped a rather
unlikely source for assistance in teaching
certain aspects of the Bronze Age to /
freshman history students.

He went to the computer.

As a consequence, students in Taylor
Sanders’ History 109 class have spent part
of this term in the computer center, trying
to keep an ancient empire afloat in the fac

 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
   

 

with "Pharaohs
Some are more successful civilizations based on metal work and

the specially-designed compu ; agriculture needed certain conditions to re-

which they assume the id | main viable, particularly cooperation

Sin, King of Akkad, wh among the various ethnic and economic

from the Persian Gulf t groups and neutral attitudes on the part of

coast around 2250 B.C. their neighbors;’ explains Sanders. “Such
The game was /aLex- balance was important. But good luck was

ington High Sch crucial.

“The problem came when rulers tried to
expand too fast. Expansion was usually
followed by ceaseless rebellion, palace
revolts and constant frontier wars. In the
end, the highlanders, attracted by temple
riches and stored grain, delivered a coup de
grace. All this happened to Naram Sin’s suc-
cessors. The empire collapsed?’

The game even includes occasional en-
voys from Pharoah, demanding that tribute

      
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

history prof
“John too

 

1€ serfs and choose
ye to be seeded each

resources as they try to |
tion alive.
One miscalculation,
end is liable to come swiftly for.
Merchant, the game’s writer,

thrown into the wilderness, but you have
also been impaled by the Guti, whose |
now uses your skull as a handbag?’
Happily for the students, they never
leave the safety of the computer terminal.

“I wanted students to recognize that in the computer center.

 

   

 

 

 

nders with computer author John Merchant watch WEL freshman Eric Knigh

   
   
  

be paid immediately. The players are give
the choice of paying the tribute or refusit
and facing the consequences. a

“By using this game the students con-
front multiple challenges. They are faced —
with the same kinds of decisions—military,
agricultural, redistribution, hoarding and
trading—that these rulers faced;’ Sanders —
says. “I think it gives them a far greater ap-
preciation for what was happening at this
moment in history. What I want them to do
is look for themes that will tell them about
life in Mesopotamia at the time and put
together a short paper on their computeriz-
ed ‘reign’.”’

Certainly the students found running a
computer-generated kingdom to bea oe
challenging occupation. a

Take, for instance, the experience of one
of the computerized Naram Sins who had
managed to keep his kingdom running
smoothly for 26 years by keeping the coun-
try’s population small and feeding the serfs
their proper allotment of grain only to have
the plague hit. As he explained in his paper |
about the experience, “Itcanbeasevere
shock to wake one morning to find half of
your work force dead?’

Sanders is currently working with W&L |
senior Jim Smith on a new simulation that
would require British history students to _
make certain decisions that faced that coun-
try’s leaders during the 19th century.

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   

21

   

& Gazette

 

 

Touchton Scholarship
established at W&L

J. Thomas Touchton of Tampa, Fla., an
alumnus and trustee of Washington and Lee
University, has created an endowed scholar-
ship fund at W&L in honor of his parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Touchton Jr. of
Dade City, Fla.

The Charles and Thelma Gray Touchton
Scholarship Fund will provide a tuition
scholarship each year to an incoming
freshman at W&L from the state of Florida.
The award will be made on the basis of
character, academic promise, capacity for
leadership and financial need.

Announcement of the new scholarship
fund was made by Washington and Lee
University President John D. Wilson.

“The Touchton Scholarship Fund is an
important addition to Washington and Lee’s
scholarship program; Wilson said. ‘‘We are
indeed grateful for Mr. Touchton’s decision
to honor his parents in a way that will assist
worthy students for years to come’

The first recipient of the Touchton
Scholarship is Robert Z. Slappey of Deland,
Fla. A freshman at W&L this fall, Slappey
served as Student Council president, was a
Medallion of Excellence winner for Volusia
County and received from Deland High
School both the Scholarship Cup for
academic excellence and the Citizenship
Cup for leadership and service.

‘In addition to providing a permanent
way for me to express my appreciation for
everything that my parents have done for
me, this scholarship fund will allow
outstanding students, many of whom could
not otherwise afford it, to attend
Washington and Lee and have the oppor-
tunity to benefit from the same experience
that I found so valuable as a W&L student,’
Touchton said of his gift.

Charles F. Touchton Jr. is semi-retired
from an active business and civic career in
Dade City. A native Floridian, he spent
most of his business life with Mutual of
New York as a life insurance agent. Heisa
member of that company’s Hall of Fame
and is a former member of the life insurance
industry’s Million Dollar Round Table.

He has served as a city commissioner
and as mayor of Dade City andasa

Ze

 

J. Thomas Touchton

member of the Pasco County School Board.
Additionally, he has had many years of in-
volvement on the boards of trustees of
several area hospitals and is currently a
member of the advisory council of the
Wilmer Institute of Opthamology at Johns
Hopkins University Hospital.

Thelma Gray Hannon Touchton 1s also
a life-long resident of Florida and was ac-
tive for many years in many church and
community endeavors. She is a descendant
of Thomas Gray who came to Virginia in
1635.

J. Thomas Touchton is managing part-
ner of The Witt-Iouchton Company of
Tampa. A 1960 graduate of Washington and
Lee, he was elected to the University’s Board
of Trustees in 1981.

He is a past president of the Financial
Analysts Society of Central Florida, Inc.,
and is a member of the Financial Analysts
Federation. He is a trustee or director of
several mutual funds sponsored by Merrill
Lynch & Co., including Merrill Lynch
Ready Assets Irust.

Active in a wide range of civic activities
in the Tampa area, Iouchton is a former
trustee of the University of Tampa and cur-
rently serves on that university’s board of
fellows. He is also a member of the greater
Tampa Chamber of Commerce and Com-
mittee of 100 and the Tampa Bay Area

Touchton Scholarship Established, Northen Grant Received

Committee on Foreign Relations.

He has been active in alumni activities at
Washington and Lee for many years, former-
ly serving as vice president of Washington and
Lee’s alumni board.

 

 

Northen Grant funds
typesetting system

A grant of $90,000 from Mary Moody
Northen, Inc, of Galveston, Texas, has
brought “‘state of the art” photo-typesetting
capability to Washington and Lee’s print
shop and made it possible for the University
to assist both Virginia Military Institute and
Hollins College in meeting their typesetting
needs as well.

Known as the Compugraphic MCS (for
Modular Composition System), the new
equipment permits the University to meet
virtually all of its typesetting requirements
‘in house” through the use of highly-
specialized computers and software
programs.

Because of typesetting needs generated
by W&L’s full-service printing operation,
the University purchased a complete MCS
configuration of equipment, including two
fully-programmed computer terminals and
keyboards where operators record typeset-
ting jobs onto so-called “‘floppy disks:’
Each “front end”’ terminal is connected toa
computerized device that converts the elec-
tronic signals into various kinds, or fonts,
of type and in various sizes as required by
the particular job.

An unusual feature of the system per-
mits an operator to examine ajobona
special video screen that displays the work
much as it will appear when converted to
phototype.

The typesetting machine contains a
“font library” of various kinds of
typefaces, as many as 16 different styles ‘‘on
line’ at atime. These typefaces are “‘digi-
tized’”’ on magnetic disks, permitting the
operator to tell the machine to create the
type in any size from five-point (almost too
small to read) to 72-point (approximately an
inch in height). The machine can set type
for anormal newspaper column at the rate
of 150 lines per minute.

In seeking support from Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Washington and Lee propos-
ed to establish a new and innovative
cooperative arrangement with VMI and
Hollins, whereby these schools have ac-
quired MCS “front end’’ systems for
keyboarding type onto floppy disks. These
disks are brought or mailed to W&L where
the actual type is created on its full system
and then returned to VMI or Hollins for use
in the printing.

Capt. Lawrence Burnette, public infor-
mation officer at VMI, estimates that the
new arrangement will permit a savings of
some $7,000 in commercial typesetting costs
this year for his school. Hollins is expected
to achieve similar substantial savings.

Since W&L was already setting its own
type in-house on outmoded photo-
composition equipment, its advantages

derive primarily from new speed and ease of

operation, system flexibility, and expanded
operator capability. It is possible for the
University’s administrative computer to
“talk” to the MCS typesetting system, so
that articles written in the Publications
Office on the computer’s word-processing
program can be converted to type without
being re-typed by the MCS operators. Many
of the articles appearing in this issue of the
Alumni Magazine were handled this way.

In seeking support of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., Washington and Lee’s pro-
posal took note of the long-standing philan-
thropic interest that Mrs. Mary Moody
Northen has shown in VMI, Hollins, and
W&L. Last year, Washington and Lee
received a grant of $77,000 from Mrs. Nor-
then’s foundation for the purchase of
audio-visual equipment associated with the
Mary Moody Northen Auditorium in the
University Library. In every practical way
the University undertakes to share the
benefits of that audio-visual equipment
with VMI.

In addition to Mrs. Northen, Gilbert F.
Orcutt of Dallas, and Edward L. Protz of
Galveston, are directors of Mary Moody
Northen, Inc. Mr. Orcutt’s interest in the
new typesetting system and the inter-
institutional cooperative arrangement was
especially keen.

 

 

Jarrard receives
$80,000 NSF grant

Washington and Lee psychology pro-
fessor Leonard E. Jarrard has received a
new two-year, $80,000 grant from the Na-

a grant from Mary Moody Northen, Inc.

Mary Moody Northen

tional Science Foundation for his continu-
ing research into a primitive part of the
brain named the hippocampus.

This marks the 17th consecutive year
that the NSF has supported Jarrard’s
research which is beginning to have prac-
tical implications in a number of areas, in-
cluding possibly understanding the cause of
Alzheimer’s disease.

Using specially bred laboratory rats for
his research, Jarrard has been studying both
the structure and function of the
hippocampus.

“Although this is all strictly basic
research, we are beginning to see how
various practical implications sneak in?’

 

Typesetters Larry Mason and Anna Claytor with a portion of the typesetting equipment purchased through

 

says Jarrard, who began his research on the
hippocampus in the early 1960s and receiv-
ed his first NSF grant in 1966.

The hippocampus has long been
associated chiefly with memory. But
research by Jarrard and others has also con-
nected the structure to such serious
disorders as hyperactivity in children and
epilepsy.

Much of Jarrard’s recent work, some of
which was conducted in concert with a team
of scientists at the Walter Reed Army In-
stitute for Research in Washington, has
centered on the possible link between
bilateral damage to the hippocampus and
Alzheimer’s disease.

During a sabbatical leave from
Washington and Lee last fall, Jarrard began
the research with three other scientists at
Walter Reed on the effects on the hip-
pocampus of exposure to organ-
ophosphates, ranging from insecticides
to so-called nerve gases. Their research
eventually led them to attempt to create an
animal model of Alzheimer’s disease.

“Alzheimer’s disease appears to involve
a decrease in certain neurochemicals in the
brain;’ explains Jarrard. ‘In order to
understand the disease better, we have been
centering our efforts on testing a substance
that, when injected into the hippocampus,
would create a model Alzheimer’s disease in
the laboratory animal.

“For a long time it was thought it was
quite natural for a person to lose their
memory as he or she grew older,’ Jarrard
continues. ‘“The assumption was that cells
just stop functioning as a part of the aging
process.

z3

JY Gazette

“The more the disease has been examin-
ed, the more apparent it is that there is a
change in the underlying chemistry, much
of it involving the hippocampus:’ Jarrard
adds.

In the past several years Jarrard has
worked on developing a new operating pro-
cedure in which certain neurotoxins are in-
jected directly into the hippocampus in
order to damage the structure in laboratory
rats. It is amore refined technique which
more closely mimics the way in which the
damage occurs in cases of disease to that
brain structure.

This past summer Jarrard was at Oxford
University where he worked with a group of
Scientists using the new operating
techniques.

“There has been a good deal of con-
troversy and conversation lately about the
use of laboratory animals in experimenta-
tion,’ notes Jarrard. ‘“‘But it is quite impor-
tant to be able to develop these models in
the laboratory in order to search for the
causes and eventual treatment of diseases.

“Even though our work is best described
as basic research, and there is no attempt to
solve a pressing practical problem, it is
through such basic research using animals
that we gain an understanding of how the
brain normally functions and how it may
function in a diseased state. This is a
necessary first step in attempting to help
find a cure for a disease?’

Jarrard has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1959, with the exception of five
years from 1966 to 1970 when he was at
Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
Jarrard has routinely involved W&L
undergraduates in his research, both during
the academic year and during the summer
months when classes are not in session. A
number of these students have gone on to
do graduate work in the area and are now
pursuing careers in related areas.

 

 

Lawyers are....

Who is becoming a lawyer these days?

Bankers and ministers and newspaper
reporters. Housewives and engineers and in-
surance adjusters.

Those, at least, are a few of the careers
in which first-year law students were work-
ing before they entered the Washington and
Lee School of Law this fall.

Statistics compiled by the admissions
office indicate that a majority of law
students, at Washington and Lee at least,

24

Jarrard at work in W&L laboratory

still enter directly from college.

Of the 123 students in the first-year law
class this fall, 54 percent (67 students)
received their bachelor’s degree in 1983.

The statistics indicate a continuing trend
among students to take at least one year
away from the classroom before beginning
graduate studies. For instance, 14.7 percent
of the first-year W&L law students
graduated in 1982 and took a year off
before beginning law school while another
10.5 percent took two years off.

The remaining 20.8 percent of the first-
year class graduated in 1980 or earlier.

““My impression is that the trend nation-
wide is for law students to be older and that
many continue to enter from other careers.’
says Edward O. Henneman, assistant dean
of the W&L law school. “If anything our
Statistics in this regard are less dramatic
than those from law schools in large urban
areas.’

Yet, the W&L law school has its share of
students who are embarking on new careers
or perhaps getting a law degree to supple-
ment a current career.

Among those students who received
their bachelor’s degrees in 1980 or earlier,
the following careers were represented:

—a bank officer;

—a former press secretary and
speechwriter for a state political official;

—a minister who already holds a doc-
torate in religious education;

—an industrial engineering systems
analyst for a major gas company;

—two paralegals from New York law
firms;

—a government reporter for an Iowa

 

newspaper;

—an agricultural researcher;

—a radio station news director.

‘““We do have a good deal of diversity in
terms of the careers from which these men
and women have come but also in terms of
the academic interests pursued by those
students who graduated most recently;’
noted Henneman.

While political science was the most
popular undergraduate major among the
first-year law students, virtually every
course of study is represented from music to
art to geography.

History was the second most popular
major followed by English, economics,
business administration, philosophy, and
journalism.

And that does not even include some of
the varied extracurricular interests of the
entering students, who included among
their numbers a former Atlantic Coast
Conference basketball player, the ad-
ministrator of a day care center, the coach
of a national championship equestrian
team, and a national champion weightlifter.

And that’s who’s going to law school
these days.

 

 

Reeves Center is featured
in magazine article

Washington and Lee University’s Reeves
Center for Research and Exhibition of
Porcelain and Painting is featured in an ar-
ticle in a recent issue of Southern Accents
magazine.

The four-page article included
photographs of the interior and exterior of
the Reeves Center as well as photographs of
paintings by Louise Herreshoff which are
housed in the building which was dedicated
last September.

The photographs were taken for
Southern Accents by Bard Wrisley, a 1973
graduate of Washington and Lee.

Southern Accents, published in Atlanta,
is a Magazine of “fine Southern interiors
and gardens:’

 

 

Albums available

Record albums by the Washington and
Lee Glee Club and Southern Comfort have
just been released and are available.

The Glee Club was recorded in concert
and the album includes a variety of
material, ranging from ‘“‘Ave Maria” to

‘The Washington and Lee Swing?’’

Southern Comfort’s album, “ .. On the
Rocks,’ features the 12-member group on
such songs as ‘‘Coney Island Baby” and
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Modern Major
General.’

Both albums are available for $8 plus $1
for postage and handling and can be
ordered by writing Dr. Gordon Spice,
Department of Music, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

Coulling named
Mason Professor

Sidney M. B. Coulling, head of the
department of English at Washington and
Lee, has been named the S. Blount Mason
Jr. Professor at the University.

Announcement of Coulling’s appoint-
ment to the endowed professorship was
made in October by Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson. The appoint-
ment was made by the University’s Board of
Trustees during its fall meeting in Lexington
last weekend.

“I am delighted to announce this ap-
pointment on behalf of the Board of
Trustees;’ Wilson said. “As a scholar and as
a teacher, Professor Coulling has establish-
ed himself as one of the most widely-
respected and effective members of this
University’s faculty?’

The S. Blount Mason Jr. Professorship
was established at Washington and Lee in
1973 in memory of Mr. Mason, a member
of the W&L class of 1905 and a Baltimore
insurance executive, who died in 1969. The
endowment for the chair came from trusts
created by Mr. Mason and his wife to
benefit after their deaths certain charities in
which they were interested.

William W. Pusey III was the first
Blount Professor at W&L. He held the chair
from its establishment in 1973 until he
retired in 1981. He currently holds the pro-
fessorship on an emeritus basis.

Coulling has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1956 and
has been head of the department of English
since 1978.

A native of Bluefield, W.Va., he received
his bachelor’s degree from W&L and earned
both the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of North Carolina.

His post-graduate field of research was
Victorian literature, with particular em-
phasis on Matthew Arnold.

Before coming to Washington and Lee,

Sidney M. B. Coulling

Coulling was an instructor in English at
Florida State University and at the Univer-
sity of Maryland.

He is the author of the 1974 volume
Matthew Arnold and His Critics and has
contributed articles to various professional
journals on topics of Victorian literature.

Coulling is a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the Modern
Language Association of America. He has
been a state judge for the National Council
of Teachers of English awards. He has serv-
ed as president of the board of directors of
Stonewall Jackson Hospital and was a
member of the hospital board for six years.

 

 

 

Artifacts uncovered
in Rockbridge hollow

Artifacts uncovered during an ar-
chaeological dig in the high mountain
hollows of Rockbridge County are pro-
viding interesting perspectives on the 19th-
century economy of the region, according
to Washington and Lee professor John M.
McDaniel.

The 183-acre Anderson Hollow was
added to the Virginia Landmarks Register
in May and nominated at that time for the
National Register of Historic Places.

Located on the southeastern slope of
North Mountain, the hollow contains seven
different archaeological sites—five historic
(or early 19th century) and two prehistoric
(dating back 4,000 to 6,000 years).

In a paper that he was invited to deliver

at the annual meeting of the Archaeological
Society of Virginia in Manassas, McDaniel
reported some of the findings from the
ongoing project which began in September
1980.

According to McDaniel, the primary
purpose of the project is to gain a greater
appreciation of the cultural adaptations of
the early settlers to the particular zone in
western Virginia.

However, McDaniel noted that ‘“‘most of
the questions generated by our work have
been in the realm of economics?’

Among the more interesting discoveries
made at the sites are the ceramics.
McDaniel and his team of archaeologists
have been able to compare these shards with
ceramics found in the vicinity of Liberty
Hall, the 18th-century school located in
Lexington.

“The comparison will allow us to assess
to what extent differences in access to goods
existed in the area at the time of concern”
McDaniel reported in his recent paper. “‘It is
already clear that at Liberty Hall there was
much greater variety in imported wares;
also, in the context of functions, we see a
much greater emphasis on service (at Liber-
ty Hall) as compared to storage vessels?’

Other comparisons can be made with
regard to artifacts that represents recrea-
tional activities--toys, for instance. While
McDaniel indicates that the Liberty Hall
material had a much broader range of such
items, he is quick to add the fact that it does
not mean the hollow settlement lacked ~
recreational activities.

In fact, the discovery of parts of a large
organ in one of the sites near the highest
point in the hollow is considered one of the
most provocative and surprising finds.

“The current challenges of access to the
site . . . made us doubt that the parts were
in fact components of an organ.’ wrote
McDaniel. ‘‘We determined they were from
an organ and subsequent interviews with
local informants made it clear that these
large organs were in fact popular among
residents of even inaccessible hollow farms.

“The evidence of the organ provides
data relevant to numerous economic ques-
tions; among those would be: (1) the pur-
chasing power of people, (2) the degree to
which cash was allocated to recreational
goods, (3) the degree of exploitation of out-
side sources of goods, and (4) comparisons
with what was purchased in the Town of
Lexington?’

Other artifacts uncovered during the
project include large quantities of patent
medicine bottles, which McDaniel says
should provide valuable insights on at-

a

ee Gazette

 

John M. McDaniel

titudes toward diseases. The large inventory
of bottles associated with alcoholic
beverages provide data on alcoholic con-
sumption and the interaction with nearby
sources of goods.

McDaniel indicates that one of the most
critical sources of data about economic ac-
tivities are the account books maintained at
the local stores.

“Perhaps the most impressive general
findings are that there was extensive
dependence on the stores and that many
items that would have to be defined as lux-
urious and expensive were purchased by
these hollow folk}? McDaniel noted.

An example would be “a fine Russian
hat” which sold at a local store for $6 in
January of 1842.

As McDaniel notes, “‘this purchase is
impressive not only because of the value of
six dollars in 1842, but also because the
comment the transaction makes on the
popular perceptions of self-sufficiency exer-
cised in the hollows?’

Washington and Lee students have con-
ducted much of the archaeological work on
the Anderson Hollow project under the
direction of McDaniel, associate professor
of anthropology and director of the W&L
archaeology laboratory.

 

charge of promoting UVa’s public image
since 1966.

This summer Rich Murray, ’71, became
the sports information director for UVa.

Murray’s appointment caused Fishback
to observe: “Scratch a Wahoo and you’ll
find a Mink ... .I’ve been the public UVa
face for a number of years. Now we’ve made
a clean sweep with the addition of Rich
Murray as our sports information director.
Scratch a Wahoo and you’Il find a Mink”’

Fishback was recently featured in an ar-
ticle in the Charlottesville Daily Progress,
which explained how he had taken over the
UVa position on the advice of a colleague
on the Richmond Times-Dispatch. The col-
league happened to be Charles McDowell,
’48. And the man who hired Fishback at
UVa? The school’s former president, Edgar
Shannon, 739.

Scratch a Wahoo....

 

 

 

 

Scratch a Wahoo

The University of Virginia’s university
relations are in good hands these days--
thanks to Washington and Lee.

William H. Fishback Jr., 56, vice presi-
dent for university relations, has been in

26

Mock Convention
seeks support

Every Washington and Lee alumnus
probably has fond memories of the W&L
Mock Convention—undoubtedly the
highlight of the W&L experience.

Held every four years to predict the
nominee of the party out of the White
House, Washington and Lee’s Mock Con-
vention has achieved an uncanny record—12
correct predictions in 17 attempts since
1908. This record is representative of the
diligent planning and research that W&L
students put into the Mock Convention.

That preparation is already well under-
way for the 1984 Mock Democratic Conven-
tion, scheduled for May 11 and 12 in Lex-
ington. The steering committee and state
chairmen were selected last year, and the co-
chairmen, secretary and treasurer have been
on the job for about two years. The entire
Mock Convention staff is anticipating an
exciting—and accurate—convention, a con-
vention that will live up to 7ime magazine’s
assessment of it as “the biggest and boom-
ingest of its kind?’

Furthermore, because the 1984 Mock
Convention falls on the same weekend as
Alumni Weekend, many W&L graduates
will have an opportunity to participate in
Mock Convention.

Although the 1984 convention is ex-
pected to be one of the most elaborate ever,
only 10 percent of the convention’s budget
comes from the student body activities fee.
The remainder must be raised through
private gifts and contributions. This is
where your help would be appreciated,
because 40 percent of the budget still needs
to be raised.

This money will be used to bring top
speakers to the W&L campus, provide
facilities for the convention itself, attract
nationwide media coverage, and most im-
portantly, aid in the considerable research
necessary for another accurate prediction.

Your donations are tax-exempt. Checks
should be made payable to Washington and
Lee University and sent to the 1984 W&L
Mock Democratic Convention, P.O. Box
1559, Lexington, VA 24450.

The steering committee greatly ap-
preciates any and all donations; however,

 

The 1984 Mock Convention will be held May II and 12.

these should not supersede donations to the
University itself.

by G. Bruce Potter

and Michael M. Shelton

 

 

Campus speakers

—Eugene D. Genovese, professor of
history at the University of Rochester,
delivered The John Randolph Tucker Lec-
ture for 1983 at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law as part of the
Homecoming weekend activities in
September.

The title of Genovese’s lecture was ‘“‘The
Law and Slave Society in the Thought of
Antebellum Southern Political
Economists?’

The Tucker Lectures were established at
Washington and Lee in 1949 in honor and
memory of the distinguished service of Mr.
Tucker as dean and professor of law from
1823 to 1897.

Genovese is the author of many scholar-
ly articles and books, the best known of
which is Roll, Jordan, Roll.

—Sherman E. Lee, adjunct professor in
the department of art at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, presented a
series of lectures, including the Phi Beta
Kappa Lecture, in September.

Lee’s Phi Beta Kappa Lecture was entitl-
ed “The Original Contribution of Japanese
Art?’

Lee was director of the Cleveland
Museum of Art from 1958 to 1983 as well as
chief curator of Oriental art for that
museum from 1952 to 1983.

—John V. Fleming, chairman of the
department of English at Princeton Univer-
sity, presented the second annual Shannon-
Clark Lecture in English in October.

His lecture was entitled ‘““Chaucer and
Erasmus on the Pilgrimage to Canterbury.’

Fleming is a medievalist whose principal
scholarly interest is the relationship between
Christian life and thought and European
literature in the period from Augustine to
Erasmus.

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in English
were inaugurated last year by Edgar F.
Shannon Jr., Commonwealth Professor of
English at the University of Virginia. The
series honors the memories of Shannon’s
father, chairman of the Washington and Lee
English department from 1914 until 1938,
and Harriet Mabel Fishburn Clark, a
grandmother of the donor whose gift to
W&L established the lecture series.

 

and Edwin D. Craun.

 

Tucker Lecturer Eugene D. Genovese

Shannon’s inaugural lecture in the series
was one of the featured pieces in the
Autumn 1983 issue of the Virginia Quarter-
ly Review. That article is entitled ‘““The
Thews of Anakim’: Postulations of the
Superhuman in Tennyson’s Poetry.’ Shan-
non is a 1939 graduate of Washington and
Lee.

—The Most Reverend Walter F. Sullivan,
11th bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese
of Richmond, spoke on “Peacemaking in
the Nuclear Age” under sponsorship of the
Howerton Fund in Religion at W&L.
Sullivan’s lecture was in October.

—Victor Rosenblum, the Francis Lewis
Scholar in Residence at the law school this
semester, gave a public lecture entitled
‘Judicial Dilemmas Over Life-Related
Issues”’ in October.

Rosenblum is a senior member of the
law faculty at Northwestern University.

John V. Fleming (center), the 1983 Shannon-Clark Lecturer, with W&L English professors John Evans (left)

 

In his lecture he focused on Supreme
Court responses to policy and ad-
ministrative issues posed in the abortion
funding and regulation cases.

—John A.S. Phillips, a professor in the
African studies program at the University
of Bayreuth, Germany, presented three
public lectures under the sponsorship of the
department of English and the University
Lectures Committee at W&L in October.

Phillips discussed South Africa in two
of his lectures and examined Prince Albert
and the Victorian age in his other
presentation.

—Bobbie Ann Mason, author of the
award-winning Shiloh and Other Stories,
gave a reading from her works in October as
part of the Glasgow Endowment Program.

 

 

Security tightened
after rape at fraternity

The rape of a Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College student by an intruder at
the Pi Kappa Alpha house in September led
the University to ask fraternities to tighten
their security.

In early November a grand jury in-
dicted a Lexington man in the rape case.

The RMWC student, an 18-year-old
freshman, was sleeping on a couch in a Se-
cond floor study of the fraternity house
when she was assaulted at about 3:45 a.m.
after a rush party.

Two fraternity members were awakened
by her screams and chased the assailant

al

 

 

 

 

 

LE Gazette

from the fraternity house.

The rape victim was treated at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital for bruises on her throat
and a laceration on the back of her head.

In the wake of that incident as well as
several break-ins at fraternity houses,
Washington and Lee dean of students Lewis
G. John and associate dean for fraternity
affairs Danny Murphy met with the Inter-
fraternity Council and suggested various
means of upgrading security measures at
the individual houses.

 

 

Med school preview

While some of their classmates were tak-
ing a break from academics this past sum-
mer, three Washington and Lee students
were getting a sneak preview of medical
school as part of three unrelated, but
similar, programs.

The three—seniors Ron Magee of
Dallas, Tex., Eroll Skyers of Bridgeport,

 

Conn., and Gabriel Darkwah of Ghana-

 

 

were participants in special programs

Participants in summer medical school programs were (from left) Ron Magee (Harvard), Eroll Skyers (Con-
necticut), W&L senior Bryan Johnson, and Gabriel Darkwah (Medical School of Georgia).

 

 

 

 

apply to medical school;’ Skyers said. ‘‘This

 

 

provided a little headstart in that process?’

 

 

 

 

 

 

designed for minority students in pre-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

medical curriculums.
“‘This was the first time that we had am

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

students apply for one of these programs?’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For Darkwah, the experience at the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Medical College of Georgia offered some
courses that were very much like first-year
medical school offerings.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said John White, director of minority af-

 

“The histology course that I took was

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fairs at W&L. “Not only were all three ac-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cepted to the programs but the feedback we
got in each instance indicated that they all
performed exceptionally well?’

All three attended eight-week programs.
Magee was at Harvard, Skyers was at the
University of Connecticut, and Darkwah
was at the Medical College of Georgia in
Augusta.

Though the programs were run in-
dependently, all were based on the same
concept of providing minority students with
an opportunity to take additional course
work while also to get some feel for medical
school.

“At Harvard, I took a variety of courses
and also was involved in clinical placement
in neonatology at the Children’s Hospital?’
Magee explained.

“In addition, I had the opportunity to
have interviews with admissions represen-
tatives from several medical schools, in-
cluding Harvard?’

Skyers’ experience was similar. The par-
ticipants at the University of Connecticut
were also involved in personal development
sessions and workshops that gave them an
overview of the health science profession.

“All the participants were planning to

28

 
 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

  

 

 

 

almost identical to the same course that

first-year medical school students would
take there;’ he said. ““We were even given
course in medical writing and had some
simulated medical school admissions inter-
views.”

Although the course work was valuable,
perhaps the most important aspect of their
experience, the students say, was the preview
of medical school they received.

“I came away from Harvard far more
optimistic about the decision that I have
made to aim for medical school?’ Magee
said. ““The program made me realize that all
the work at the undergraduate level really
has been worth it. There are moments when
you have misgivings about that choice. But
those eight weeks reinforced my decision’

 

 

Herrick researches
small businesses

Bruce H. Herrick, professor of
economics and head of the economics
department at Washington and Lee, is a co-
principal investigator on a research project
that is being conducted for the Small

 

 

 

  

Business Administration.

Herrick and Robert Gaston, a member
of a Tennessee engineering and consulting
firm, will conduct the nine-month project
into those resources that are used by small
businesses and the particular markets that
are served by small businesses.

Another Washington and Lee professor,
Philip L. Cline, associate professor of ad-
ministration and economics, will participate
as a consultant on the project.

Herrick and Gaston were chosen by the
Small Business Administration for the pro-
ject on a competitive basis.

““We were extremely pleased to be award-
ed the contract for this work?’ said Herrick.

The study proposes to use a random
mail sample survey of approximately 5,000
businesses—both small (fewer than 500
employees) and large.

“We will be primarily concerned with
answering two questions;’ explained Her-
rick. “‘The first is what resources—that is,
workers, machines, and buildings—do
small businesses employ that would not be
employed by big businesses. The second is
what small or new markets small businesses
serve that would not be served by big
businesses:’

The purpose of the research, added Her-
rick, is “to quantify those particular aspects
of small business. In the end, our findings
should help to form public policy on small
business.’

According to Herrick, there are literally
millions of businesses that fall in the

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
 
    
   
 
  

Peter Cronin Photo

  

 
   
 
 
 
  

  
 
 
    
   
   
 

 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
  

Measures Act of 1961 which established the
present system of regulation of weights and
- measures in Tennessee.
He was joined for the dedication
ceremony by his son, John, ’56, a professor
of journalism at W&L.

 

Placement consultant

Stephen P. Bredin, formerly director of
placement for the Colgate Darden School
of Business Administration at the Universi-
ty of Virginia, will serve as a special career
placement consultant at the University.

According to Michael A. Cappeto,
associate dean of students and director of
placement at W&L, Bredin will be primarily
concerned with increasing the number of
recruiters who interview students on the
University’s campus.

“We are quite fortunate to have a man
with Mr. Bredin’s skills and experience

MA

k (left), professor of economics, and Philip L. Cline, associate professor of administration,

confer on a research project for the Small Business Administration. working with our students in this crucial
area of career placement;’ said Cappeto.
category of “small” basedontheirnumber __ given authority in 1947 to develop a Weights “In addition to attracting business and

of employees. and Measures program for Tennessee. That industry representatives to our campus, he
“We will be making what is known as a program included a properly equipped will be involved with increasing the network

random stratified sample. Professor Cline laboratory which has received national of employment contacts that we have for

will be lending his expertise in the statistical recognition. students and will also advise and counsel

area;’ Herrick added. He has held numerous national offices students?’

Meantime, Herrick has beennamedasa related to his field, including president of A graduate of Swarthmore College with

consultant for another project conducted the National Association of Marketing Of- —_a master’s degree from the University of
for the Small Business Administration. He ficials, president of the Southern Weights Virginia, Bredin was employed with Exxon
will be working with ORFMA, Inc.,of Oak and Measures Association, and chairman Corporation for 26 years before joining the
Ridge, Tenn., to study the sources of capital of the National Task Force on Metrifica- United Nations Development Programme
for small businesses owned by veterans. tion, Weights and Measures. in 1972 as a senior personnel officer in the
ORFMaA is the same consulting firm with Jennings, who retired in 1973, is the career development office.
which Gaston, Herrick’s partner on the author of the Tennessee Weights and He joined the University of Virginia’s
other project, is associated. es 2 : et ¢ _

Herrick, a specialist in the field of Go je” 2 is Tee

economics in developing nations, joinedthe == = — : i comes
W&L faculty in 1980 after previously serv-
ing as associate professor of economics at
UCLA. Heis the co-author of a textbook
entitled Economic Development.

——— eins
Jennings honored ag L my iN é

DIVISION.
Department of Agriculture dedicated a ay
building housing its marketing division, the NT A ) K ER _ |
William Matt Jennings Marketing Building. [aia ohe say C;

The building is part of the Ellington
Agricultural Center in Nashville.

Jennings was appointed director of the

division of marketing for the Tennessee William Matt Jennings, ’27, (left) and son John, ’56, in front of the building named in the elder Jennings’
Department of Agriculture in 1945 and was _honor at the Ellington Agricultural Center in Nashville.

 

  

 
 
  

 

William Matt Jennings, ’27, was
honored in August when the Tennessee

 

 

29

Le Gazette

Darden School in 1974 and directed a com-
prehensive placement operation for more
than 450 graduate business students. He
also taught a course in business com-
munications and lectured in human
resource management.

As aconsultant, Bredin will be on the
campus two days a week and will be in-
volved in several career counseling con-
ferences that have been scheduled for the
W&L campus this year.

 

 

Ziegler’s new play
opens in theatre

“A bittersweet comedy” is the way
Thomas J. Ziegler, Washington and Lee
drama professor, has described his newest
play Love Poems.

The premiere of Love Poems on October
14 in the Boiler Room Theatre opened the
1983-84 season of W&L’s University
Theatre.

The three-act comedy starred Shirley
Ziegler of Lexington as Mert Plucker and
W&L law student Philip Brown as Frank
Stimson. David Conners, a W&L
sophomore, rounded out the cast as Mert’s
comatose father. Senior drama major Bob
Ferguson directed the production.

Love Poems introduces Mert, a woman
of about 30 who lives in New York’s East
Village and is attempting to break out of
her humdrum life as a truck dispatcher and
nurse to her comatose father. She enrolls in
an American literature class at NYU and
eventually becomes involved in a bizarre
relationship with her professor (Frank).

“It is a case of opposites—she is poor,

stolid, uneducated; he is wealthy,
knowledgeable, preppie;’ said Ziegler.
“They work together to solve each other’s
problems:

This is not the first work in which
Ziegler utilizes opposites. Both of his
previous plays, Weeds and The Ninth Step,
were written in a similar style.

“T like to contrast humor and tragedy;’
Zielger explained. ‘My works are comedies
with serious overtones. They delve into fair-
ly heavy emotions?’

What inspires a playwright to create
characters like Mert and Frank and put
them on stage for all to meet?

“Love Poems came out of my experience
of subletting a railroad flat one summer in
New York’s East Village;’ said Ziegler.
“That happens to be the setting for Love
Poems. The apartment had only three

30

  

Philip Brown and Shirley Ziegler rehearse a scene
from Love Poems.

rooms and we had to share the bath down
the hall with our neighbors. Most of these
neighbors were Polish immigrants. Puerto
Ricans lived downstairs. We were the only
ones who spoke English. Mert and Frank
are based on the type of people I met there.

“Tam very New York-oriented;’ Ziegler
continued. “‘To make it in New York is the
sign of success to a dramatist. Broadway is
the ultimate. If you are going to dream, you
might as well dream big and I dream of
Broadway.’

Those dreams of Broadway may soon
come true for the graduate of Northern II-
linois University. Ziegler’s play The Ninth
Step is scheduled to open off broadway in
New York in February.

At the present time, Ziegler has three
new scripts in the works.

“I try to write each day,’ said Ziegler.
“There are moments when I am in the
mood to write but more often I am not.
Sometimes I have to make myself work. But
once I get started, it is very enjoyable. The
characters I create seem like old friends. To
leave them for a while and come back to
them is like renewing old friendships’’

Love Poems is not necessarily a finished
play. And the University Theatre produc-
tion was as much a workshop as a
performance.

As Ziegler explained, ‘‘On paper, a play
is just a story. But once the play is on stage
it comes alive and what worked on paper
may not work on stage. So I am constantly
revising and adding finishing touches—even

Peter Cronin Photo

during the actual performance of the play?’

Isn’t that difficult for the actors and ac-
tresses? “‘You bet it is;’ said Ziegler. ‘But I
make sure they understand that they may be
required to learn new lines at the last mo-
ment when they audition for parts. I also
watch the audience for reactions. The au-
dience reactions help tell me what is work-
ing and what is not?’

That audience reaction was not the only
way Ziegler determined what was working
and what was not in Love Poems. After
each performance, the audience was asked
to critique the play. “I want everyone to feel
free to contribute?’ said Ziegler.

 

 

New faculty

The appointments of six teachers to
Washington and Lee University’s
undergraduate faculty and two to the W&L
School of Law faculty was announced in
September.

New teachers joining the undergraduate
faculty when classes began in September
were Joseph Martinez, assistant pro-
fessor of drama; Capt. John D. Smith,
assistant professor of military science; Lyn
F. Wheeler, associate professor of accoun-
ting; Jean C. Dunbar, assistant professor of
English; Robert I. Tharp, part-time instruc-
tor in art; and, Ann Taylor Thornton, part-
time instructor in music.

The new appointments in the School of
Law were Martha I. Morgan, visiting
associate professor of law, and Joan M.
Shaughnessy, assistant professor of law.

The University earlier announced the
appointments of Henry Sharp Jr. as pro-
fessor of mathematics, Peggy Hays as assis-
tant professor and reference and public ser-
vices librarian and Dennis Daly, assistant
professor of physical education and head
lacrosse coach.

Martinez (drama) received the B.A.
degree from Illinois Wesleyan University
and a diploma from the Royal Academy of
Dramatic Arts in London. He has served as
instructor at the University of Denver and
the Goodman School of Drama and was an
assistant professor of drama at Virginia
Commonwealth University, the Valley
Studio, Western Illinois University and
most recently the University of Illinois. He
is the author of a book entitled Combat
Mime and has written articles in scholarly
journals.

Smith (military science) received his B.S.
degree from Robert Morris College and his
M.B.A. from West Virginia University. He

has served in a variety of assignments in the
U.S. Army since June 1973. His most recent
assignment was as chief of the Southern
Regional Signal Support Regiment for the
Allied Forces Southern Europe in Naples,
Italy.

Wheeler (accounting) received his
bachelor’s degree from St. Lawrence
University and then earned both his M.B.A.
and D.B.A. from George Washington
University. A native of Auburn, N-Y., he has
previously been employed by the U.S.
Department of State and taught at St.
Lawrence University (1976-1981) and the
College of William and Mary (1981-1983).
He is the author of a recent article in the
William and Mary Business Review and is a
member of the American Accounting
Association and the Academy of Interna-
tional Business.

Dunbar (English) taught English at
W&L during the 1978-79 academic year. She
received her B.A. from Kenyon College and
both her M.A. and Ph.D. from the Universi-
ty of Virginia.

Tharp (art) has taught art in the
Rockbridge Fine Arts Workshop for the
past four summers. He holds a B.F.A.
degree from the San Francisco Art Institute
and a masters of art education degree from
the Rhode Island School of Design. He will
teach during the fall term.

Thornton (music) will serve as a part-
time piano instructor. She received her B.A.
from Duke University and her master’s
degree in music from Julliard.

Morgan (law) is currently on the faculty
of the University of Alabama School of
Law in Tuscaloosa, Ala. She received the
B.S. degree from Alabama and the law
degree from George Washington. She was
previously employed as a law clerk to Judge
James R. Miller Jr., U.S. District Court
judge in Baltimore. She has written several
articles in law journals.

Shaughnessy (law) received the B.A.
from the State University of New York and
then earned her law degree with honors
from the University of Chicago where she
was associate editor of the University of
Chicago Law Review. A native of South
Bend, Ind., she has been an associate with
the New York law firm of Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen & Hamilton from 1978 to the present.

In addition, the W&L military science
department has appointed Sgt. Raymon L.
Kuper as the new operations sergeant for
the University’s Army ROTC detachment.
Kuper’s most recent assignment was as an
infantry battalion scout platoon leader at
Fort Riley, Kansas.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ethan Allen, ’31L, (third from left) was inducted into the Order of the Coif. From

     

o
left, law dean Frederic

L. Kirgis Jr, Law School Association president Ray Haman, Allen, and W&L President John D. Wilson.

 

 

Allen honored
at law school meeting

Ethan Allen, ’31L, was made an
honorary member of the Order of the Coif
as part of the annual meetings of the Law
School Association held as part of the
University’s Homecoming activities in
October.

Allen, who is associated with the New
York City law firm of Willkie, Farr &
Gallagher, was inducted into membership
during a dinner held at the Lexington Coun-
try Club.

The Law Council held its annual
meeting in Lewis Hall and also met infor-
mally with students and faculty during the
weekend.

 

 

Faculty activities

—Washington and Lee chemistry pro-
fessor Michael A. Pleva delivered a paper at
the national meeting of the American
Chemical Society held in Washington, D.C.,
in August. Pleva was invited to present the
paper, entitled “Chemical Instrumentation
at the Undergraduate Level?’ to a session of
the organization’s Division of Chemical
Education.

—Roger B. Jeans, associate professor of
history, has been appointed to a three-year
term as director of the East Asian Studies
Program at the University. Jeans succeeds
Minor L. Rogers, associate professor of
religion, in the post.

W&L instituted the East Asian Studies
Program in 1972 with a grant of $30,000
from the Mary Reynolds Babcock Founda-
tion. Subsequent grants from the Jock A.
R. Stewart Fund and the Japan Foundation
along with a gift of more than 1,000 books
on Chinese art and literature from the
Chinese Writers and Artists Association
and the Rotary Club of Taipei, Taiwan, have
enabled the University to expand the
program.

Jeans, who joined the faculty at
Washington and Lee in 1974, is a specialist
in Asian history and has conducted research
in China. He is currently writing a
biography of a 20th-century Chinese
philosopher and politician named Carsun
Chang.

—Washington and Lee law professor
Wilfred Ritz is the author of a new volume
designed to assist practicing attorneys in
dealing with the complex and often confus-
ing cases arising from automobile
insurance.

Virginia Automobile Liability Insurance
has recently been published by The Har-
rison Company, Publishers, of Norcross,
Ga.

In the 190-page book, Ritz gives
thorough treatment of five coverages:
liability, uninsured motorist, underinsured
motorist, medical payments, and medical
expenses and income.

In an appendix to the book, Ritz has set
out the Standard Family Combination
Automobile Policy, which provides the basis
for policies written by most large
companies.

Ritz is the author of the Uniform Com-

31

 

biochemical characterization of a growth
factory necessary in the normal develop-
ment of the insect’s shell-like external
skeleton, known as the “cuticle?”

Wielgus’ discovery shows for the first
time that a specific protein must be
transported in the blood to the tissue that
forms the cuticle in order for normal
development to occur.

The paper further describes the isola-
tion and biochemical characterization of
the factor as a protein consisting of two
subunits.

Although the work was basic research, it
may in the future be used in insect control
since it describes a previously unknown
physiological mechanism in the insect.

Wielgus conducted his research with the
support of two Glenn Grants from
Washington and Lee.

—Peter Bergstrom, assistant professor
of biology, presented a paper at the centen-
nial meeting of the American Or-
nithologists’ Union in September.
Bergstrom, who joined the W&L faculty in
1982, has conducted research into the
breeding behavior and ecology of
shorebirds. His paper was entitled ‘Sex
Roles During Incubation in Wilson’s
Plover’

—Washington and Lee journalism pro-
fessor Robert J. de Maria has been elected
president of the Blue Ridge Chapter of
Sigma Delta Chi, Society of Professional
Journalists.

de Maria has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1977. He
is faculty manager of both Cable Nine, the
University’s television station, and WLUR-
FM, W&L’s campus radio station.

He will serve as president of the
70-member organization for one year.

—The application of computer
technology to an 1lth-century survey of
England was the topic of a paper written by
two Washington and Lee University pro-
fessors and three W&L students.

Taylor Sanders, professor of history at
W&L, delivered the paper at a meeting of
the Southeastern Medieval Association in
Charlottesville in October. Philip L. Cline,
associate professor of economics and ad-
ministration, was a co-author of the study,
which was also conducted by W&L seniors
Charles King of Falls Church, Va., Timothy
Hartley of Western Springs, IIl., and
Timothy Valliere of Uncasville, Conn.

The paper dealt with the use of the
Domesday Book, the 11th-century survey
that was ordered by William the Conqueror.
A portion of the paper examined the ap-

 

James Boatwright

plication of computer technology to the
Domesday Book, which was the most com-
plete statistical document dating from the
Medieval period.

In addition to discussing the limitations
and potential use of computers as a tool to
understand the document, the paper includ-
ed information compiled by King, who had
conducted a computer analysis of a portion
of the Domesday Book for a course in
British history.

Valliere and Hartley had analyzed dif-
ferent aspects of 11lth-century England.
Valliere looked at the differences between
English and Danish settlement areas in
England while Hartley concentrated on
Robert of Mortain, the brother of William
the Conqueror, who controlled Norman
Cornwall.

As a result of their paper, the authors
have been invited to conduct a workshop on
their interdisciplinary approach to teaching
medieval history at the International Con-
gress of Medieval Studies in Kalamazoo,
Mich., next May.

—Louis W. Hodges, director of W&L's
program in applied ethics, is the author of
an article in the October 1983 issue of the
magazine, presstime.

Entitled ‘Vivid Writing Can Compound
Tragedy for Victims;’ Hodges’ article in-
volves newspapers’ handling of tragedies,
particularly with regard to what he calls
“the innocent victims of tragedy.’

In his article, Hodges suggests that jour-
nalists ‘can be more careful to identify the
specific public need for each story about a
tragedy.’ Further he argues that once such a

Patrick Hinely Photo

story is written, the journalist “can reflect
on it from the point of view of the victims”
and that journalists ought to recognize
those ‘“‘innocent victims of tragedy” as a
specially vulnerable category of people in
the news.

—Bruce H. Herrick, professor of
economics and head of the economics
department, was part of a special team that
conducted a health survey of Jordan for the
World Bank. A consultant to the World
Bank since 1973, Herrick spent three weeks
conducting the survey this summer. Other
members of the team included a medical
doctor and a hospital administrator. The
survey was conducted by the World Bank’s
population, health and nutrition
committee.

The committee’s findings are to be
published later this year.

—An essay by Washington and Lee
English professor James Boatwright has
been published in a new book about Gone
with the Wind. Boatwright’s article was
first published in 1973 by The New Republic
in its series of Reconsiderations.

Entitled ‘“Totin’ de Weery Load;’ Boat-
wright’s article appears in the new volume
Gone with the Wind as Book and Film,
which was edited by Richard Harwell,
former curator of rare books and
manuscripts at the University of Georgia
Library.

Published by the University of South
Carolina Press, the volume contains some
three dozen pieces dealing with Margaret
Mitchell’s 1936 novel.

—H. Laurent Boetsch Jr., assistant pro-
fessor of romance languages, delivered a
paper at the 33rd Mountain Interstate
Foreign Language Conference held in Oc-
tober at Virginia Tech.

In his paper, Boetsch discussed Jose
Diaz Fernandez’s novel E/ Blocao.

—Washington and Lee journalism pro-
fessor Clark Mollenhoff was a featured
speaker at a special celebration honoring
John Vincent Atanasoff as the father of the
computer in October.

The celebration was held at Iowa State
University in Ames, Iowa, where Atanasoff
built a digital computer in the 1930s while a
professor there.

As the Washington bureau chief for the
Des Moines Register and Tribune in 1973,
Mollenhoff wrote a series of stories
chronicling Atanasoff’s invention after a
court decision in a patent infringement suit
had determined that Atanasoff was the true
father of the multi-billion dollar a year
computer industry.

33

 

 

 

e One hundred and fifteen Washington and
A / u AA nl l Lee alumni converged on Lexington in October
to spend two days getting their batteries

; recharged.
It was called the Alumni Leadership Con-
Lea der Ss h l ID ference. And it was designed to bring as many
of the University’s volunteer alumni leaders as
possible to the campus for a series of sessions

Co rl fe eC Ni eC A) C eC ranging from how the alumni can assist the

current generation of students in job place-
ment to how chapters can improve their

programs.
The bottom line, though, was the Univer-

 

 

sity’s desire to bring these alumni leaders up to
date on current issues, programs, and
problems.

Participants were Alumni Chapter
Presidents, Class Agents, Alumni Admissions
Program Chairmen, and members of the
Alumni Association’s Board of Directors.

From the opening keynote address by
President John D. Wilson on Thursday even-
ing to the president’s closing remarks on Satur-
day afternoon, the conferees participated in a
lively exchange of information and ideas.

Some of the major presentations during

 

 

 

the conference included:

®a session on the creation of regional
scholarships supported by individual chapters
and awarded to students from those chapters’
specific areas. Buck Ogilvie, ’64, president of
the Houston chapter, told the gathering how
his chapter had raised $100,000 to fund the
Houston Honor Scholarship, which will be
awarded this spring. The Baltimore chapter
has a similar scholarship program, and efforts
are underway in the Mid-South Chapter in
Memphis and the Dallas Chapter to fund
scholarships;

eRobert Fure, director of summer pro-

 

grams, outlined a plan under which the
University would offer programming to its
various alumni chapters. As tentatively
discussed, the ‘‘Chapter Seminar” program
would involve a W&L professor offering a one-
day seminar on some topic of current interest
as an experimental off-shoot of the Alumni
College;

eMichael Cappeto, associate dean of
students, discussed how alumni could assist in
the University’s career counseling and place-
ment efforts by becoming part of a job
network;

Through individual presentations and

 

panel discussions, the participants heard
about the University’s admissions program,
student life, and the academic program.

The groups divided according to their par-
ticular duties for other sessions, including a
panel composed of chapter presidents Nat
Baker, ’67, of San Francisco, Marc Schewel,
’69, of Lynchburg, David Dowler, ’69, of New
York, and John Klinedinst, ’71, of San Diego,
on how to improve chapter presentations.

Throughout the weekend, the major theme
was renewing and revitalizing the University’s
alumni leaders so that they, in turn, can
recharge batteries all over the country.

 

35

 

 

 

A Message from Your
Alumni President

It is my pleasure to report on our Alumni Association, which
serves 15,500 alumni and 75 chapters throughout the United States.
The Association was chartered in 1910 and since that time there
have been three executive secretaries: Cy Young 1929-1958, Bill
Washburn 1958-1983 and since July 1, 1983 Dick Sessoms. The
Board now consists of 17 alumni, each serving a four-year term.
We meet in the spring and fall with committee work in between.

The Alumni Board is undertaking an ambitious task at the mo-
ment to identify alumni services and to determine if each is com-
municated and sponsored successfully. A distinct purpose of the
Board is to monitor and respond to alumni opinion whether this
be on the question of coeducation, fraternities, student recruitment,
athletics or any matter of concern to you. We on the Board are
your representatives. These are exciting times for the University
but, as Bob Huntley suggested, there are no new questions, just
different folks to answer them at different times. The coeduca-
tion question has not been resolved as many may think.

In addition to acting as an information center providing record
keeping and research on alumni, the Alumni Office serves us with
its attention through reunions and chapter programming. Our reu-
nion activities are super but they can be better. Buddy Atkins has
accomplished much in this direction over the last several years.
More activities at the local chapter level are needed and Dick
Sessoms has placed this at the top of his priority list. Chapter
presidents and class agents on campus at the October Leadership
Conference provided much thought and suggestions in these areas.

The Alumni House itself plays a fundamental social role in the
Lexington community. Opened in 1966 it is readily made available
for use by any University sponsored or related groups. It was abuzz
with activities this fall with Homecoming functions, our Board of
Directors meeting, the Leadership Conference and numerous other
events. On tap during the school year are the Founder’s Day
celebration, Fancy Dress, Class Reunions, Mock Convention, the
Senior Banquet and graduation activities. But the activities of the
Alumni Office do not stop there. They continue through involve-
ment in alumni travel programs and the summer alumni colleges
and in numerous other areas to provide additional enrichment ac-
tivities for us as alumni. I am proud of these activities and look
forward to their growth and success in the future.

Student recruitment and financial support are keys to continued
success of the University and the Board is keenly aware that we

36

as alumni must be more active in these vitally important areas. I
must single out especially the Alumni Admissions Program and
the need for it to grow in size and importance in the future. The
success of the Annual Fund and its contribution of more than
$1,000 toward the cost of educating each student is something we
can all be justly proud of and for which Carter McNeese and the
class agents deserve a great deal of credit. At the same time we
see the establishment of regional honor scholarships in Houston,
in Baltimore and the beginning of those in other areas of the coun-
try. What a splendid way for us as alumni to assure the future suc-
cess of the University.

Just as important is the development of student support and
interest in alumni affairs. At this time we are working out the details
of a Student Alumni Association and hope to coordinate student
activities under that umbrella. We also are studying the creation
of a Parents Alumni Committee. At this time there are 140 sons
and daughters of alumni attending Washington and Lee and our
idea is to provide a channel of communication for this doubly im-
portant sector of our alumni.

As you can see, the Board is attempting to carve a more active
role for alumni in the affairs of the University. A trip to Lexington
and a visit on campus will give you a taste of the spirit and positive
electricity generated on all fronts of the University these days.

—PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62
President
Alumni Board of Directors

 

 

 

Mary Underwood, a Hollins College student, was crowned the 1983
Homecoming Queen by Dr. Keith Shillington, W&L chemistry professor,
during halftime ceremonies of the W&L-Centre game. Miss Underwood
was sponsored by Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.

 

 

 

For long-time followers of Washington
and Lee University athletics, the names are
bound to conjure up plenty of memories.

Frank Surface and Gene Girard--names
synonymous with W&L basketball in the
immediate post-scholarship era of the late
1950s. Girard was the high-scoring forward;
Surface was the point guard.

That was 25 years ago. And yet those
same two names--Frank Surface and Gene
Girard--are just as prevalent in W&L
athletics today.

This time it is Gene Girard Jr., the
tailback, and Frank Surface III, the
fullback. Together they form two-thirds of
the Generals’ starting offensive backfield.
The second generation has arrived. The two
young athletes are following in their fathers’
footsteps—sort of, anyway.

“I tried basketball in the seventh grade
and didn’t have much success at it>’ says
Surface, a sophomore from Jacksonville,
Fla.

‘“Football’s a much better sport?’ adds
Girard, a junior from Coral Gables, Fla.

But while neither Surface nor Girard
chose their fathers’ sport, both did choose
their fathers’ alma mater—for which W&L
head coach Gary Fallon is extremely
thankful.

“T think it’s neat that the two of us are
teammates at the same school where our
dads were teammates; says Surface. “It isn’t
something anybody planned. It just worked
out this way.’

“I had seen the name Frank Surface in
my dad’s basketball scrapbook;’ says
Girard. ‘Then last fall we had this fullback
show up and his name was Frank Surface. I
called my dad and asked whether it could be
the son of his old teammate. Sure enough, it

Surface,
Girard
(Re) United

From left, the Surfaces—Frank II and Frank
II1I—and the Girards—Gene Sr. and Gene Jr.

was. I guess we’re kind of carrying on the
tradition here, aren’t we?”’

Indeed they are. Girard was the leading
ground gainer for W&L throughout the
season. Surface was close behind in the
statistics but, more importantly, paved the
way for Girard with his blocking.

“IT was a tailback in high school (at
Jacksonville Bolles) so I had been more ac-
customed to running the ball than blocking
when I got here?’ says Surface. “‘But it’s ac-
tually a great feeling to get out in front of a
play and take somebody out of Gene’s way,
then watch him run?’

If Surface likes that feeling, imagine
how Girard feels at the sight of a 6-3,
200-pounder leading him around the end.

““We ran a fake reverse against Centre
earlier this season, and all I could see was
big Frank out there in front of me?’ says
Girard. “All I had to do was follow him?’

Girard followed Surface for a 62-yard
touchdown run on that particular play.
When he came to W&L as a freshman,
Girard knew he would spend some time
waiting and watching tailback Chris
Cavalline, the Generals’ top rusher the past
four years.

“T had to be patient?’ Girard says. ‘‘Last
year I played a little more than I thought I
might because we had some injuries. But I
haven’t minded waiting for my turn?’

Surface and Girard readily confess that
their fathers had some influence on their
respective decisions to attend W&L.

‘““My dad had said such good things
about the place ever since I could remember
that I had to consider coming here?’ says
Surface.

Adds Girard: “‘My father didn’t push me
in this direction. He let me make up my own

37

(Re) Uniting Surface, Girard

mind. But the experience he had at W&L
had to be an influence on me’

W& L's Fallon certainly has to appreciate
the kind of alumni support that the elder
Surface and Girard have shown by sending
their sons to play for the Generals.

““Maybe it’s because their dads were
teammates or something, but these two
young men really complement each other in
the backfield;’ says Fallon. ““They both use
their individual skills to the fullest. I’d have
to guess that their fathers were awfully good
athletes. I know I’m tickled to have the
sons. This is the kind of alumni giving I
love?’

 

 

McDonald joins
basketball staff

Timothy R. McDonald, a native of
Bristol, Pa., and a 1979 graduate of West
Chester State College, has joined the
Washington and Lee athletic staff as an
assistant basketball coach.

The 26-year-old McDonald comes to the
Generals’ program following four years as a
high school coach and teacher in
Pennsylvania.

McDonald holds a bachelor’s degree in
health and physical education from West
Chester. He has been assistant men’s basket-
ball coach and physical education teacher at
Neshaminy High School in Langhorne, Pa.,
for the last three years.

 

 

Burks keeps
String intact

George Burks, ’27, kept up his long-
standing tradition this fall when he and
three companions drove from Louisville,
Ky., to Lexington for their annual golf
outing in conjunction with W&L’s
Homecoming game with Centre College.

This time Burks’ trip was more wor-
thwhile than usual since he won the Alumni
Golf Tournament held as part of the
Homecoming activities.

Burks and his companions—Herbert
Lancaster, Charles Hodgin, and Ray
Laib—have been attending the W&L-Centre

38

Hodgin, and George Burks, ’27.

football contest since 1952, invariably tak-
ing advantage of their journey to Lexingtor
to get in a round (or two or sometimes three
or four) of golf along the way.

This trip back they played on three dif-
ferent courses in four days with Burks win-
ning the Alumni Tournament on the Lex-
ington Country Club Course.

 

Chuck O’Connell

 

Inveterate golfers and W&L Homecoming attendants, : Jrom left, Herbert Lancaster, Ray Laib, Charles

 

 

Long becomes
lacrosse assistant

Jeff Long, an All-America performer in
lacrosse at the Naval Academy in the
mid-1970s, has become an assistant lacrosse
coach at W&L.

Long joins new head coach Dennis Da-
ly’s staff. A native of Rochester, N-Y., Long
was a graduate assistant lacrosse and soccer
coach at Alfred University in New York last
year.

He earned USILA All-America honors
in 1975, 1976, and 1977 as a record-setting
attackman for Navy.

 

 

O’Connell named
assistant AD

Chuck O’Connell, a member of the
Washington and Lee athletic department
since 1973, has been promoted to assistant
athletic director with responsibility for the
department’s financial matters.

O’Connell will continue as assistant
coach and defensive coordinator for the
Generals’ football team and as assistant
professor of physical education.

A Maryland native, O’Connell is a 1965
graduate of Denison University.

Chapter News

TOKYO. The colony of Washington and Lee alumni in Japan
gathered on June 11 at the Shishien (Lion Garden), a Chinese
restaurant in Shibuya, Tokyo, to renew their W&L ties. Professor
Minor Rogers of the religion department and East Asian studies
program was the official University representative. Rogers was in
Tokyo at the conclusion of the spring term which he spent there
with five undergraduates. A special guest was Dr. James T.
Yashiro, who was Howerton Visiting Scholar at Washington and
Lee during the 1980-81 academic year. He is professor of church
history and director of athletic affairs for the 49 varsity teams at
Rikkyo University in Tokyo. David Wouters, 55, head of Wouters
and Associates, a management consulting firm, was there along
with Bart Peaslee, ’80, who has been studying Japanese at Rikkyo
for the past two years, and Sean Lennon, ’84, the current Rikkyo
International Exchange Scholar in natural science. The other
alumni present were Rikkyo graduates who attended Washington
and Lee on the exchange program between the two universities.
These include Toshikuni Kaneto, who attended W&L in 1977-78
and is a marketing manager for Toshiku, Ltd., a leading trade
company. Kazuhiro Hazama, 1980-81, is in charge of coal imports
from Australia for Sumitomo Corporation in Tokyo. Tadashi
Tamaki, 1981-82, is an industrial news correspondent for Nihon
Keizai Shinbun, Japan’s leading economic publication. Hideki
Suzuki, 1983-84, is the current exchange student, presently
working in economics and business administration. Yoko Mizuno-
Benda, 1978-79, attended the Tokyo meeting before departing for
Minneapolis to join her husband, Walter Benda, ’78, who was
transferred there by Northwest Orient Airlines.

SHORT HILLS, N.J. The Northern New Jersey alumni chapter
held a late summer cocktail party at the Short Hills Club. Guests
included current students from the area and their parents.

TAMPA. University Trustee Tom Touchton, 60, and his wife,
Lee, hosted a meeting of the Florida West Coast Chapter of
Washington and Lee alumni on August 18 at their home on Tampa
Bay. Over 40 alumni and friends were on hand to hear Touchton’s
report on Washington and Lee University and to welcome the six
freshmen from the area and their families to W&L. The new
freshman class brought the total enrollment from the Tampa Bay
area at the University to 16.

CUMBERLAND, MD. The Upper Potomac Chapter, smallest
of 73 W&L alumni groups in the nation, held its annual dinner
meeting on August 31 at the Cumberland Country Club. More
than 75 percent of the Chapter’s members attended the meeting.
Chapter President Al Darby, ’43, introduced Dick Sessoms,
director of Alumni Programs, who gave his impressions of the
loyalty and excellence of the larger University alumni body as well
as bringing to the chapter a current campus report. Other remarks
were made by Charlie Beall, ’56, of Martinsburg, W. Va., a
member of the alumni board, and Goodloe Jackson, 714, who
delivered his annual invocation before dinner. A special treat was
the reading of a letter from Marty Thomas, ’83, to the chapter.

 

  

TOK YO—The first international club met in June with David Wouters, ’55,

Joining Rikkyo University professor James Yashiro and W&L religion professor
Minor Rogers.

 

 

NORTHERN NEW JERSE Y—The July meeting included Nick Purcell, ’77;
Jim Clark, ’84; Hallett Gates, 80; David Judge, ’84, the vice president of the
student executive committee this year; and, Rob McMichael, ’78.

 

 

UPPER POTOMAC—The August meeting included: first row, from left,
Albert D. Darby Jr. ’43, club president; J. Goodloe Jackson, ’14; W&L alumni
programs director Richard B. Sessoms; Dr. Edwin C. Miller, ’23; Edwin C.
Miller Jr. 53. Second row, from left, James A. Black, ’34; Donald W. Mason,
‘SIL; Thomas N. Berry, ’38; L. Leslie Helmer, ’36; William L. Wilson, ’38L;
and, Charles R. Beall, ’56, of Martinsburg, W.Va., a member of the alumni
board.

39

Chapter News

Thomas, whose education at W&L had been assisted by a chapter
scholarship, is now a graduate student at Carnegie-Mellon
University.

INDIANAPOLIS. On Monday, September 12, Washington and
Lee alumni from all over central Indiana met for dinner at the
Ramada Inn near the Indianapolis airport. The meeting was
arranged by Mark Dicken, ’78L, who invited Buddy Atkins, ’68,
assistant alumni secretary, to report on the University and the
importance of an effective chapter network. Following cocktails
and an excellent dinner, the group agreed unanimously to form
the newest W&L alumni chapter under the name Indianapolis
Chapter and extended membership to all alumni in the state.
Dicken was elected president. Elected to serve.as directors were
Glenn Fidler, ’61, from Indianapolis, Jim McCune, ’77, from
Indianapolis, Bill Scully, ’82L, from Muncie, and Jim Utterback,
"77, from Bloomington. Plans for future chapter activities were
discussed before the meeting adjourned.

MINNEAPOLIS. A designated board of directors for the
Minnesota Chapter of Washington and Lee alumni met on Mon-
day, September 12, for lunch at the Pool and Yacht Club which
overlooks the Mississippi in Lilydale, Minn. Host for the occasion
was Joel Bennett, ’56, president of the St. Paul Union Stockyards.
The board set the first general chapter meeting for Saturday,
November 19, advised assistant alumni secretary Buddy Atkins,
’68, of their plans for the chapter, and elected the initial slate of
officers. They are: president, Tom McCarthy, ’79; vice president,
Brice Gamber, ’64; secretary, Jim Cone, ’61; and treasurer, Joel
Bennett. David Braun, ’76, will serve as alumni admissions
representative for the chapter. Other directors are Dave Weaver,
’°60, and Rod Boren, ’68.

NORFOLK. The Tidewater Chapter held a reception and dinner
on Wednesday, September 28, at the Omni International Hotel
overlooking the Norfolk harbor. The meeting provided
Washington and Lee alumni and parents an opportunity to meet
Dr. John D. Wilson, the University’s president. Farris Hotchkiss,
°58, director of university relations, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assis-
tant alumni secretary, accompanied Dr. Wilson on the trip.
Chapter president, Dick Phillips, ’76, arranged the meeting. After
dinner he introduced Peter Agelasto, ’62, president of the Alumni
Association, and his wife, Betsy. Phillips then presented President
Wilson, who spoke about the history and future of Washington
and Lee University. Wilson enumerated many of the ways in
which the University had already become special to him. His
remarks brought a very warm response from the gathering.

Among the special guests was University Trustee Gordon Leggett,
°54, from Lynchburg.

NEWPORT NEWS. Alumni, guests, and friends of Washington
and Lee University in the Peninsula Chapter met on Tuesday,
September 27, to welcome University President John D. Wilson to

40

 

   

  
    
   

FLORIDA WEST COAST—Joining the August chapter meeting were (from
left) Matt Valaes, ’79; Jim Davis, ’79, the chapter president; David Winge, ’78;
and, Bob Quinn, ’80L.

 

FLORIDA WEST COAST—W&L Trustee J. Thomas Touchton, °60, (right)

was joined at the August meeting by Parkhill Mays Jr. ’58, (left) and Parkhill
Mays IIT, 87.

 

  
   

i

MINNESOTA— Officers of the Minnesota chapter gathered for a September
meeting. From left, Joel Bennett, 56; Brice Gamber, ’64; Tom McCarthy, *79;
Jim Cone, ’61; and, David Braun, ’76.

TIDE WATER—Meeting to hear President John D. Wilson at a September
meeting in Norfolk were (from left) Everett A. Martin, ’37; Leonard H. Davis,
°30L; Walter E. Hoffman, ’31L; and, William H. Oast Jr. ’47, “S50L

 

TIDEWATER—President John D. Wilson visits with guests at the September
chapter meeting. From left, David H. Adams, ’65, ’68L; Mrs. Adams; Presi-
dent Wilson; and, George Y. Birdsong, ’61.

c 5

PENINSULA—Among those at the reception for President John D. Wilson
were (from left) Leake Wornom, 50; President Wilson; Jim Harvell, ’56, and
Lewis McMurran, 736.

 

PHILADELPHIA— University Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48L, (second
from left) plays host to Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of University rela-
tions and development, and to his son-in-law, Gordon W. Stewart, ’83L,
and his daughter, Sarah B. Stewart.

¥ See
Es

ROANOKE—The Roanoke chapter held a luncheon meeting in October with
President John Wilson the featured speaker. From left, Martin Burks, ’32L;
Mrs. Burks; Peyton Winfree, ’35; and, Mrs. Winfree.

 

their chapter. The reception and a dinner were held at the James
River Country Club in Newport News where a magnificent vista
of the river added to the enjoyment of the crowd on hand. Phil
Dowding, ’52, ’57L, the chapter president and his wife, Merle,
arranged the meeting. Following dinner Dowding asked several
alumni to introduce the prospective students whom they brought
as guests. He then introduced the featured speaker, President
Wilson. President Wilson’s remarks about his first few months at
Washington and Lee and his commitment to preserving the
University’s place in history among the top rank of the nation’s
educational institutions were received with a standing ovation.
Other guests from the University included Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
director of university relations, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary. Peter Agelasto, ’62, president of the Alumni
Association was also present. Dowding concluded the program
with a report from the nominating committee chaired by Leake
Wornom, ’50. The nominees, Conway Sheild, ’64, ’67L, president;
Tommy Cox, ’67, ’72L, vice president; and Herbert Smith, ’80,
’°83L, secretary-treasurer were elected by acclamation.

PHILADELPHIA AND DELAWARE. Nearly 200 members of
both chapters united on October 7, at the Franklin Plaza Hotel in
Philadelphia for a reception and dinner hosted by the Rector of
the Board and Mrs. James M. Ballengee in honor of President and
Mrs. John D. Wilson. Bruce Lee, ’71, president of the
Philadelphia Chapter, welcomed out-of-town guests to the “City
of Champions” (the Philadelphia Phillies won the National
League baseball title the next day with the Wilsons and Ballengees
in attendance). Lee also recognized a number of special dinner
guests, including Trustee Emeritus Isadore Scott, ’37L; former
Alumni Association President Ed Foltz, ’40, who recently won a
1983 Distinguished Alumnus Award; Alumni Board member
Maynard Turk, ’52L; Delaware Chapter president Ben Sherman,
75; Philadelphia Chapter president-elect Marty Bowers, ’80; and
Farris Hotchkiss and Dick Sessoms from the university relations
staff. By way of introducing President Wilson, Rector Ballengee
described the work of the trustee committee which successfully
concluded its presidential search assignment with the naming of
Wilson as its first choice to become W&L's 21st leader. Wilson
responded with a speech that touched on many aspects of the
University’s past and present. He indicated several of his hopes for
curriculum improvements in the future, including strengthening in
computer science, Far Eastern studies, and Russian studies.

ROANOKE. Over a hundred alumni and spouses met at the
Hotel Roanoke on Wednesday, October 26, for lunch which was
followed by remarks from President John D. Wilson. During a
short business session, Bruce Wilsie, ’72, treasurer of the chapter,
presided and recognized Bill Wallace, ’74, ’77L, who reported for
the nominating committee. The following slate was proposed and
elected unanimously: president, Arnold Masinter, ’62; vice presi-
dent, Don Huffman, ’66L; and treasurer, Scotty Farrar, ’76.
Masinter introduced President Wilson, Farris Hotchkiss, Dick
Sessoms and Buddy Atkins who were representing the University.

41

Boe

 
 
 
 

ee

 

f

ty o

fraterni

onor, a

ans created by the state

of He

 

 

 

 

  

  

Maryland

has retired from

ORELAND

T. M

HARRY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Casualty Co. in Baltimore and is a volunteer with the
United Way as loaned executive from Maryland
Casualty.

I. M. Scorrt, trustee emeritus, continues his active
civic life in Philadelphia. He now serves as president
of the Philadelphia Orchestra Council.

1938

ROBERT M. WuitE II, editor and publisher of the
Mexico (Mo.) Ledger, received the Ralph D. Casey
Award presented by the School of Journalism and
Mass Communication at the University of
Minnesota. The award recognizes distinguished ser-
vice to the community, state and nation by a
publisher or editor. White also was elected president
of the Missouri Press Association which is composed
of 292 newspapers in the state. He joined the Mex-
ico Ledger, which his family has owned since 1876,
as a carrier, progressed to co-editor and publisher in
1946 and sole owner in 1954. He is the first third-
generation president of the Missouri Press Associa-
tion. His spectacular career included duty on
General MacArthur’s staff during World War II,
staff assignments with the Chicago Sun-Times, and
chief executive officer of the New York Herald
Tribune in 1959. He has traveled extensively as a jour-
nalist in the Soviet Union, China and the Middle
East. Recently, White directed a successful campaign
through the Ledger to raise funds for the purchase
of a building site that brought a new Missouri
veterans nursing home to Mexico. Under his direc-
tion, the Ledger has received numerous awards for
excellence. He is a past president of the Inland Press
Association and serves on the boards of many pro-
fessional organizations. White is also on the board
of the Butler Mfg. Co. in Kansas City, the Missouri
Military Academy, Stephens College, the Missouri
Historical Society and the Douglas MacArthur
Memorial Foundation.

1939

FRED G. FRANCIS, a partner in the Prestonsburg, Ky.,
law firm of Francis, Kazee and Francis, was elected
to a three-year term as Kentucky state delegate to the
American Bar Association House of Delegates.

1941

LYNELL G. SKARDA Of Clovis, N.M., received the
1983 Honorary Lifetime Alumni Award from
Eastern New Mexico University. He is an attorney in
Clovis and chairman of the board of Citizens Bank.
His contributions to the legal profession in Clovis
and in New Mexico are numerous.

1944

Dr. G. EDWARD CALVERT of Lynchburg, Va., was ap-
pointed to the state Board of Medicine by Gov.
Charles S. Robb on Sept. 2, 1983. Calvert is currently
serving a four-year term on the Alumni Board of
Directors of Washington and Lee.

L. G. Skarda,

   

JS. Donovan, 50

 

1947

ROBERT A. MosBACHER, chairman and chief ex-
ecutive officer of the Mosbacher Production Co. in
Houston, Texas, was the subject of a profile in the
September 12th issue of Forbes magazine. Among
many tributes, the article stated “. . . in the land of
the Hunts and J. R., where legends are made by those
who do to their neighbor before he does it to them,
Bob Mosbacher succeeds on another level, by being
liked and respected, by working hard for himself and
his friends, by combining brains and integrity’ A
repetitive theme of the piece was “Mosbacher proves
that nice guys needn’t finish last?’

1948

JOSEPH E. BLACKBURN, former vice president for
regulatory and public affairs for Chesapeake &
Potomac Telephone Co. in Washington, has become
vice president and chief operating officer for
C & P Telephone of Virginia with headquarters in
Richmond. Since the breakup of American
Telephone and Telegraph, C & P is one of the nation’s
22 Bell System operating companies. Blackburn, a
native of Lynchburg, served with the U.S. Army Air
Corps during World War II, practiced law in
Lynchburg for nine years, and served two terms in
the Virginia House of Delegates. Heis on the board
of directors of the Lynchburg Presbyterian Home.

1950

JERRY J. DONOVAN is director of research and infor-
mation services for Zay, Champagne, Boyer and Co.,
an executive search and management consulting firm
in Atlanta. He held positions with several major
universities and was an account executive with Mer-
rill, Lynch and also Kidder, Peabody prior to join-
ing ZCB in July 1983.

FMC Corp. named ANDREW J. GALLAGHER facility
manager for the firm’s Philadelphia operations. The
facility includes headquarters for the agricultural
and industrial chemical groups, the special products

 

 

 

 

   

A. J. Gallagher, ’50

   

J. R. Meadors, *53

group and part of the corporate staff, totaling over
700 employees. Gallagher joined FMC in 1955 after
combat service with the U.S. Air Force. He and his
wife, Roz, live in Wilmington, Del.

RuFus B. HAILEY was recently named chairman of
the Dr. Robert F. Thomas Medical Foundation of
Sevierville, Tenn. His national chairperson is Dolly
Parton. Hailey is an attorney in Sevierville.

1951

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. Rosasco III, a
son, Anthony Christian, on July 24, 1983. The
family lives in Milton, Fla.

DONALD R. STEENBURGH and his wife, Lila, were
local directors for a Friendship Force program that
brought 60 Taiwanese to Richmond and Hanover
County, Va., for an exchange program in early
August. They live in Montpelier, Va.

1953

JoE R. MEADORS, Vice president and director of sales
for Bassett Furniture Industries, Inc., of Bassett, Va.,
has been elected president of the sales and marketing
division of the Southern Furniture Manufacturers
Association. The SEMA, based in High Point, N.C.,
is the nation’s oldest and largest furniture manu-
facturers association.

1954

MARRIAGE: REno S. Harp III and Patricia
O’Brien Stewart, on Oct. 15, 1983, in Williamsburg,
Va. They live in Richmond where Harp is counsel to
the Judicial Inquiry and Review Commission of
Virginia. He served previously as a deputy attorney
general for the state.

JUDGE ROBERT P. SMITH Jr. has resigned effective
Dec. 31, 1983, from the First District Court of Ap-
peals in Tallahassee, Fla. During his tenure, Smith
wrote over 600 opinions and also oversaw the move
of the Court into its own building from basement
space in the State Supreme Court Building. He
resigned to follow his interests into other areas. Smith
was a partner in the Jacksonville law firm of Bedell,
Bedell, Dittmar, Smith and Zehmer before Gov.
Reuben Askew appointed him to the bench in 1975.

1955

THOMAS W. ROBBINS JR. lives in Highstown, N.J., and
is a clinical psychiatrist at the Marlboro (N.J.)
Psychiatric Hospital. He maintains a private prac-
tice in the evenings and recently was appointed to the
psychiatric staff of the Medical Center at Princeton.
He and his wife have a daughter, 14, and a son, 2.

1956

JoHN A. McQuiIGGAN is producer of the smash
Broadway hit “Quartermaine’s Terms;’ which has
had six sold out months at Playhouse 91 in New
York. He is already planning new shows for the

43

Class Notes

future. McQuiggan is producing director of the
Unity Theatre Company, Inc., a theatre television
production company, and is developing the Unity
Television Repertory Company. As founder and later
producing director of the APA repertory company,
he established his reputation as a leading producer.
During a leave of absence from 1962 to 1966 to serve
as producer of the Milwaukee Repertory Theatre, he
produced or directed over 40 productions which
established the company as a prominent force in
American regional theatre.

RENO S. Harr III (See 1954.)

1957

PROFESSOR CARL F. BARNES JR. has been appointed
as the first director of the newly created Center for
the Arts at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
The Center contains all the visual and performing
arts at Oakland. The initial appointment is for three
years. Barnes is a professor of art at Oakland.

H. MERRILL PLAISTED III, a commercial real estate
broker with Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., in Rich-
mond, has been selected for inclusion in the 1983-84
edition of Who’s Who in Finance and Industry.

1958

JOHN C. BINFoRD is branch manager of the new full-
service investment office of Paine, Webber, Jackson
and Curtis, Inc., in Albuquerque.

1959

C. Royce Houau, has been elected executive vice
president of corporate and international banking of
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc. Hough was with
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.,
for 20 years before moving to Jacksonville. In his new
assignment, he will be responsible for planning and
managing Barnett’s statewide corporate and inter-
national banking strategies. Hough, a University
trustee, and his wife, Harriet, have three sons, age 22,
18 and 17. For the past three years, he was group vice
president and manager of Wachovia’s Corporate
Banking Administration. In Winston-Salem, he was
director of the Hickory Furniture Co., board chair-
man of the Nature Science Center and president of
the Forsyth Audubon Society. He was also a direc-
tor of the YMCA, the Arts Council and the Amos
Cottage Rehabilitation Hospital.

1960

W. JERE TOLTON JR. was a third-place winner in the
third flight of the National Amateur S.A.E. Frater-
nity Golf Tournament held recently in Pensacola,
Fla. Tolton is a judge of the First Judicial Circuit of
Florida.

1961

Haywoop M. BALLis now a member of the law firm
of Donahoo, Donahoo, Wolf and Ball in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

44

   

C. R. Hough ITI, ’59

A. R. Boren Jr., 68

1962

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. LEYBURN Mospy JR., a
son, Wade Sackett, on July 15, 1983, in Lynchburg.
Mosby is an attorney there.

JAMES N. APPLEBAUM is director of communications
and public affairs for the Asthma & Allergy Foun-
dation of America in Washington. He is also senior
associate for T. J. Schmidt and Associates, Inc.,
working on new communications and health educa-
tion projects for the National Institute of Health.

1963

GEORGE D. REED JR. has been named Hunt Valley
plant manager for the grocery products division of
McCormick and Co., Inc., in Baltimore. He had held
numerous positions in the Baltimore area with
McCormick since joining them in 1963. Recently
Reed was manufacturing manager at the company’s
subsidiary, Club House Foods, Inc., in London, On-
tario. He and his wife, Claire, have moved to
Timonium, Md.

1964

MARRIAGE: J. BRUCE WHELIHAN and Alice Mar-
tin on Sept. 10, 1983, in Wilmington, Del. They will
live in Washington, D.C., where he is a stockbroker
with Alex Brown & Sons.

ROBERT L. WILLIAMS is a treasurer for Texas City
Refining, Inc., in Austin.

W. JERE TOLTON JR. (See 1960.)

1965

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE is a partner in the Philadelphia
office of Dechert Price and Rhoads, a law firm with
offices in New York, Washington, Denver, Har-
risburg, London and Brussels. He had been practic-
ing in Phoenix.

Dr. JOLYON P. GIRARD was promoted to full pro-

 
  
       
     
   
  

th
(Ts:
Hy
HY
Wy
p

  
  

mn

Mt

By

=)
Hvthu tht

LAU

  
  

 

  
   
 
  
 
 

q
)

4 By?
| ih

a
Me
fill

i
ZN
ORG

A
Suit
Ant]

rho
Wa
a ae eae
Pus

ny
aS;

wee

&
Ard

~~

 

r

  
  
  
    
  

.\

FR POS
Hi
41

i p a ”

ae
te
"ate

  

Sw

ey
Rt)
Rae :

$5
yes!

ss =
AY | ob
5S yea

 

aa a

 

t

   

fessor at Cabrini College in Radnor, Pa. He is chair-
man of the history and political science depart-
ment and founder of the men’s athletic department.
He served as director of athletics and men’s basket-
ball coach from 1974 until 1980 in addition to his
teaching duties. Girard lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.,
where he is the township historian, recreation com-
missioner and a member of the executive boards for
the Cherry Hill Medical Center and the Youth Coor-
dinating Council. His numerous scholarly papers on
American diplomatic and military history have won
regional and national awards from Phi Alpha Theta,
national history honor society, of which he is a
member and moderator for the Cabrini College
chapter.

WALTER H. RYLAND, former chief deputy attorney
general of Virginia, became counsel to the Rich-
mond law firm of Williams, Mullen and Christian
on Oct. 1, 1983.

J. LEYBURN Mossy JR. (See 1962.)

1967

MARRIAGE: CHARLES C. HarT and Barbara Jean
Coombs on Oct. 8, 1983, in Gadsden, Ala.

BENJAMIN B. CUMMINGS JR. has moved his general
law practice from Petersburg to Brandermill in
Midlothian, Va.

KEVIN C. EARLE became associate pastor of All Na-
tions Assembly of God Church in Chicago in April
1983. The church is an outreach to Vietnamese,
Spaniards, Jamaicans, and American Indians. He
and his wife, Patricia, have two sons, James Evan and
Kevin C. Jr.

WALTER H. RYLAND (See 1965.)

1968

A. RODNEY BOoREN JR. was named senior vice presi-
dent for the security sales department of the funds
management group at Norwest Bank Minneapolis.
He is responsible for the regional and national
security sales efforts for the bank which he joined
in 1974.

Dr. NEWTON B. MILLER received national news at-
tention when he successfully delayed the premature
birth of a second twin for nearly three weeks.
Although the first twin survived only a few hours
after delivery on June 5, the second, a little girl, was
kept alive in the womb for 20 days when drugs were
administered to the mother to halt labor. The girl was
delivered on June 25 and has done well in the neo-
natal intensive care unit at Children’s Hospital of the
Kings Daughters in Norfolk.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969

R. STEPHENS PANNILL works for First Railroad &
Banking Co., of Georgia. He is vice president and in-

vestment officer in charge of the investment division
for the $1.5 billion multi-bank holding company.

STEPHEN A. SHARP is a partner in the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher,
and Flom.

1970

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN, ason,
Nathan Robert II, on Oct. 1, 1983, in Eden, N.C.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. GoTTWALD, a
son, William Michael Jr., on July 25, 1983, in Rich-
mond. Gottwald works for Ethyl Corp. and serves
on the board of directors of Reid-Provident
Laboratories.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RICHARD G. SINGELTARY, a
son, George Lee II, on March 13, 1983, in Leesburg,
Fla. Singeltary is an assistant state attorney.

RICHARD B. ARMSTRONG has been promoted to
senior vice president in the national banking group
at Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.C. Heis eastern district manager for that division
of Wachovia, which he joined in 1974 after earning
an M.B.A. in finance from Tulane University.

BENJAMIN B. CUMMINGS: JR. (See 1967.)

1971

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. MADISON F. COLE JR., a
daughter, Martha Willis, on July 10, 1983, in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JoHN M. DUCKWORTH, a
daughter, Sara Elizabeth, on Oct. 1, 1983, in
Roanoke. Duckworth is director of development at
North Cross School.

BIRTH: Cpr. and Mrs. Davip J. KANTOR, a son,
Joseph Charles, on Jan. 26, 1983, in Yorktown, Va.,
where Kantor is stationed with the U.S. Coast Guard.

RoBERT P. Stuart earned his M.S. degree in finance
from Virginia Commonwealth University. He now
works in the commodity division of Wheat First
Securities in Richmond.

1972

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS K. ROWE JR., a
daughter, Megan Bloodworth, on July 4, 1983, in
Williamsburg, Va. They live in Newport News where
Rowe is a copy editor with the Daily Press.

Dr. J. HUDSON ALLENDER was the subject of an
article in the Sherman Democrat on Aug. 9, 1983. He
and his partner maintain a pediatric cardiology prac-
tice in Fort Worth and hold quarterly clinics in
Odessa to fill a regional need. There are no pediatric
cardiologists between Ft. Worth and El Paso. Dur-
ing the latest clinic in July, Allender examined 46 of
the 55 children in the Permian Basin who came to the

 

L. D. Jones, 73 :

clinic. Allender and his wife have a one-year-old son,
Andrew Elliott.

ALAN D. FRAZER moved in November from Lex-
ington, Mass., to Stirling, Scotland, to become
materials manager in a Wang Laboratories startup
manufacturing venture.

RoBeERT H. LOCKHART is an advertising represen-
tative for the Georgia Gazette in Savannah. He also
works as a freelance photographer.

JOHN J. E. MARKHAM II has been appointed assis-
tant U.S. attorney for San Diego. He had been a part-
ner in the San Francisco law firm of Lillick, McHose
and Charles.

JOHN P. MELLO is with the Rice Council (USA), the
industry’s trade association in Abidjan on the Ivory
Coast. He works in overseas export market develop-
ment. Mello had been employed by Kimberly-Clark
in Mexico.

EDWARD G. Moore has been named vice president
for institutional development at Austin College in
Sherman, Texas.

1973

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. MarK B. THOMPSON, a son,
Mark Becton Jr., on July 5, 1983, in Raleigh, N.C.
Thompson is vice president and co-owner of
Thompson Cadillac-Oldsmobile, Inc.

JOFFRE J. Cross II has earned the professional in-
surance designation of Chartered Property Casualty
Underwriter (CPCU). Heis a partner in the Houston
firm of Langham, Langston and Dyer.

Larry D. JongEs has been named marketing direc-
tor for PruCare of Richmond, a health maintenance
organization which is a subsidiary of the Prudential
Insurance Co. Jones joined the firm in August 1982
as senior marketing representative. He is active in the
Capital Area Health Care Advisory Council, the

 

Richmond Urban League, the Henrico County Civic
League and is on the board of the Family and
Children’s Service of Richmond.

JoHn A. WaDE III has completed his Ph.D. in
economics at Purdue University. He is currently
director of graduate programs in business at Western
Carolina University in Cullowhee, N.C.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN K. FENDRICH, a
daughter, Hanna Bayla, on Nov. 17, 1981, in Char-
lottesville, Va. Fendrich is an account executive for
WNSY radio. He joined the station in March 1983.

Douctas C. CHASE Jr. teaches English at Lexington
High School.

1975

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MarK X. DIVERIO, twin sons,
Michael Anthony and Thomas Matthew, on Jan. 22,
1983. Diverio, formerly with Manufacturers
Hanover Trust, has recently joined Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith as an industrial analyst
primarily in the forest products industry. The family
lives in Rockaway Township, N.J.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. PRESTON R. SIMPSON, a
daughter, Virginia Marie, on April 7, 1983, in Dallas.
Simpson completed his residency in pathology at
Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas. On July 1,
1983, he entered private practice with three other
pathologists serving St. Elizabeth Hospital in Beau-
mont, Texas.

T. Barry Davis won the top national sales honors for
3M/Media Networks Division for the first half of
1983. His own Big Barry’s Hi-Fi Warehouse in
Bethesda, Md., is doing well.

Roppy J. McCAskILL has joined Computronics,
Inc., in Little Rock, Ark. The firm, owned by First
Pyramid Life Insurance Co., sells credit and life in-
surance software programs and computer services
to 30 insurance companies.

1976

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HUNTER N. CHARBONNET,
a daughter, Kristen Butler, on July 4, 1982, in New
Orleans. Charbonnet owns his own business, Char-
bonnet Enterprises, a general contracting firm do-
ing residential and commercial remodeling work and
development.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. ScorT FARRAR, a son, An-
drew Scott, on Oct. 3, 1983, in Roanoke, Va. Scott
is with Bolling Izard Insurance Co. in Roanoke.

HiraM Ety III was elected president of the Young
Lawyers Club of Louisville. He is an attorney with
the law firm of Greenebaum Doll and McDonald.
Ely and his wife, Deborah A. Johnson, ’77L, live in
Louisville.

45

 

 

ils la

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

     

Nell Williamson on Aug. 20, 1

  

983, in

       

   

 

 

 

   
    
 

 

STEVEN N. TUMEN is with the Board of Options in
Chicago.

1981

GERALD L. BROCCOLI is currently the general
manager and training supervisor of Food Systems
Corp. in LaPorte, Texas.

EDWARD L. MINTzis a first-year student at the New
York College of Podiatric Medicine.

1982

HAROLD R. BOHIMAN III is a second-year student at
the University of Houston College of Optometry. He
is amember of the Honor Code/Ethics Committee
which was appointed to develop an honor code for
the College.

SEAN T. BRODERICK is presently an independent
publisher’s representative working for the John
Broderick Co. in Ft. Lauderdale.

ROBERT H. WARREN III works for C&S National
Bank in Columbia, S.C. He earned a B.S. degree in
finance and banking from the University of South
Carolina.

RAND D. WEINBERG (See 1978.)

1983

MARRIAGE: LEs.tiE A. GOLLER and PHILLIP I.
DILLINGHAM on Sept. 10, 1983, in Chevy Chase, Md.
David Bucey, ’83L, was best man; Kevin Nelson,
°83L, a groomsman; and Patricia Walther, ’83L, a
bridesmaid. Among the guests were classmates John
McGarry, William Powel, Carol Hoshall, Claire
Pancerz, John Fishwick and Gaines Cleveland;
members of the class of 1984 attending were Cindy
Nelson, Dan Riley, Jamie Canup, Stephanie Whit-
man, and Mary Johnston; and Bill Johnston, ’82L.
They live in Jacksonville, Fla.

 

THoMAS J. BRONNER graduated from Columbia
University with a B.A. in economics. He is currently
employed by Halsey & Herrick, Ltd., a real estate
development firm in New York City.

VINCENT J. FECHTEL III is an accountant in the Tam-
pa office of Arthur Andersen and Co.

THEODORE M. (TEDDY) GALANIDES is pursuing an
M.B.A. degree at Emory University in Atlanta.

ROBERT J. ONDA is pursuing a master’s of tax degree
at the University of Florida.

 

In Memoriam

 

1915

JOHN GUERRANT BOATWRIGHT, retired director and
president of Dibrell Brothers Tobacco Co., Inc.,
which he joined in 1913, died on June 4, 1983, at his
home near Danville, Va. Following his retirement
from Dibrell Brothers in 1959, Boatwright operated
a dairy farm. He was a member and former
vestryman of the Episcopal Church of the Epiphany.
Recently, the Danville Golf Club made him an
honorary member in recognition of his long
membership. Boatwright was a former director of
the First National Bank of Danville. He served in
France during World War [| as an infantry lieutenant.

1921

MortTon LoulIs FELSENTHAL, a retired sales represen-
tative for Beau Brummell Ties, Inc., died on Aug. 9,
1983, in Brownsville, Tenn. He served as historian for
Haywood County, Tenn., was past chairman of the
County Library Board, and past president of the
Brownsville Rotary Club and Boy Scouts. Felsenthal
was a lay reader at Temple Adas Israel in Brownsville.

1924

CHARLES A. COHEN, a New York City attorney in the
general practice of law, died Aug. 19, 1983. During
his course of practice he served as assistant corpora-
tion counsel of the city of New York, and as special
counsel to the Board of Water Supply of the city of
New York.

1928

Dr. W. FREDERIC DELP, a native of Rural Retreat,
Va., died Sept. 10, 1983, in Roanoke, Va. Dr. Delp
practiced medicine in Pulaski for 26 years. He was
a staff physician at the V. A. Hospital in Salem, Va.,
for seven years before he retired due to ill health. Delp
was amember of the American Medical Association,
American Academy of Family Physicians, Flying
Physicians Association and served as editor of a
medical magazine for several years. He also served
as president of the Roanoke Academy of Medicine.

1929

ALBERT PEYTON BUSH JR., head of Bush Securities
Co., died on Jan. 30, 1983, in Mobile, Al.

1932

FRANK HENRY BRADY, a retired research engineer for
Raritan Copper Works of Perth Amboy, N.J., a divi-
sion of Anaconda Corp., died June 25, 1983, in Brick
Town, N.J. Brady had served as research engineer
since 1941 for Raritan Copper Works and had retired
in 1972.

ROBERT WILLIAM REINHOLD, a Self-employed
management consultant and retired federal
employee with the Agency for International
Development, died on Aug. 17, 1982, in McCon-
nellsburg, Pa.

1935

JACKSON MARTIN HosBrE JR., aretired collector for
the Internal Revenue Service and agent for Bankers
Credit Life Insurance Co., died on July 10, 1983, at
his home in Montgomery, Ala. He was a member of
the Society of Pioneers of Montgomery.

1936

PAUL GARLAND HERVEY, a retired Texas educator,
died on Sept. 19, 1983, in Oklahoma City. A resident
of Corpus Christi, Hervey held positions as
classroom teacher, secondary school administrator,
counselor, and college professor during his 40 year
career. Prior to his retirement in 1977, he served as
chairman of the psychology department of Del Mar
College in Corpus Christi. He was a member of the
First United Methodist Church of Corpus Christi,
the League City Masonic Lodge, a life member of the
Texas Education Association, an honorary life
member of the Girl Scouts of America, and a
member of the Democratic Party in which he re-
mained active until his death.

1941

JOHN CHARLES WILLIAMS JR., a retired executive of
the Exxon Corp., died on Aug. 24, 1983, in Colum-
bia, S.C. He served as a major in the Army Air Corps
during World War II. At his retirement he was in
charge of land purchase for Exxon Service stations
in the Southeast. He was a member of St. Bar-
tholomew’s Episcopal Church.

1967

WILLIAM RYLAND BABCOCK, areal estate developer,
died on Oct. 23, 1983, as the result of a camping ac-
cident. Babcock lived in Richmond and was presi-
dent of Virginia Real Estate Service, Inc., and the
developer of condominiums in Virginia Beach. He
served for 20 years as scoutmaster for Boy Scout
Troop 400 at St. Paul’s Church in Richmond. Bab-
cock was a member of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church,
and the Country Club of Virginia.

47

 

 

 

 

 

ee us,
acumen will be

 

 

 

 

 

Alumni
Invited

To

Fancy Dress

1984

Baas March 2, 1984 will be the date for the 77th Annual Fancy Dress
Ball, which is to be held in Warner Center. The Student Activities Board
is currently steaming ahead with this year’s plans.

“This year’s Fancy Dress seems to be shaping up nicely,’ said one SAB
member. “We're bringing in new entertainment and trying out new ideas.
We already have a basic concept for the theme, two bands booked and
only two bands left to be selected?’

In addition, the SAB heartily welcomes the increasing number of
Alumni who return each year for this event. Response has been so great
that plans are afoot to invite an entire Alumni Chapter for this year’s ball.
Anyone interested in attending can obtain hotel information and more
Fancy Dress information by writing to the Student Activities Board,
University Center, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia
24450; or by calling Carole Chappell at (703) 463-9111, extension 299,
between 8:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.

 

Winter Athletic Schedule

 

Jan.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Mar.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

 

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.

Dec.

 

 

BASKETBALL Jan. 21—Georgetown, Frostburg State Away
3-4—Ithaca College Tournament Away Jan. 28— William & Mary Home
7—Catholic University ame Feb. 10—Virginia Commonwealth Away
20—College of Notre Dame Away Feb. 11—University of Richmond Away
22—Stanislaus State Away Feb. 17-19—UNC-Wilmington :
6-7—W&L Invitational Home Seahawk meena! : Away
Dickinson, Geneva, Feb. 24-26— Virginia Senior Champ’ships Away
Salisbury State Mar.15-17—NCAA Division IT]
12—Emory & Henry College Home Championships Away
14—Bridgewater College Away
19—Roanoke College Home
21—Lynchburg College Away
24—Eastern Mennonite Home WRESTLING
26—Catholic University Away Dec. 3—W&L Invitational Home
30—Maryville College Home Dec. 7—Hampden-Sydney College Home
2—Emory & Henry College Away Jan. 7—Duke University Away
4—Lynchburg College Home Jan. 14—Loyola College Quadrangular Away
7—Bridgewater College Home Jan. 18—Davidson College Triangular Away
11—Roanoke College Away Jan. 21—W&L College Invitational Home
14—Eastern Mennonite Away Jan. 28—Washington & Jefferson
16—Maryville College Away Triangular Away
18—Hampden-Sydney College Away Feb. 1—Longwood College Home
21—ODAC Quarterfinals TBA Feb. 4—W&L Quadrangular Home
24—ODAC Semifinals Away Feb. 8—Lynchburg College Home
25—ODAC Finals Away Feb. 10-11—NCAA Division III
2-3—NCAA Division III Regionals TBA Eastern Regionals Away
SWIMMING INDOOR TRACK
2-4— Virginia Collegiate Jan. 21—Virginia Tech Invitational Away
Championships Away Feb. 4—VMI Relays Home
8—Shippensburg State Home Feb. 10—Lynchburg, Roanoke,
13—James Madison Away Bridgewater Home
14—Towson State Away Feb. 25—ODAC Championships Home

 

Pe ee RE Risch es ye “See

-~

The Alumni Magazin VA GNOWHIIY
WASHINGTON ANL * Gy NOLSTva | be
(USPS 667-040) eee og HynNos wa lt V3 1 NVQ a
Lexington, Virginia 24450 ~ OO

 
 

cq

aeGEte rT ac) oe2ke

i sata an alas EE at a aS

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices |

 

