 

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

Winter 1989

 

-

6 § , ,

Y
A
>
>
6

$-

 

 

Avth.
278-156
Wl 7alu
V. 64

ho. |

C. 2

Clad in a baby-blue tuxedo jacket and ruffled shirt, speaking into an
oversized microphone, the master of ceremonies gestured to his assistants.

‘‘Ladies, bring out the next prize!’’ The two young women, who were
wearing enough sequins to be understudies for Vanna White and who had
smiles to match, complied cheerfully. They reached behind a partition on
the stage and produced an object that made the crowd roar.

It’s not often that an electric lamp produces such excitement among
college students—or among anyone, for that matter. But this was no or-
dinary lamp. This was an authentic ‘Elvis lamp,’’ whose base bore the
likeness of none other than the King himself.

Tension mounted throughout the course of the game, and when at last
one student leapt to his feet and raced to claim his prize, the audience cheered
appreciatively—although, it must be said, a little enviously as well.

It was Bingo Night at Washington and Lee’s Student Activities Pavilion,
and several hundred students were assembled on a chilly January evening
to vie for a vast array of prizes. Few treasures aroused the enthusiasm of
the Elvis Lamp, but the competition was fierce nonetheless for a Nintendo
game, free Fancy Dress tickets, and a trip to Cancun.

The event was sponsored by the Student Activities Board, an organiza-
tion that in the past has been known more for its multi-keg parties and
rock concerts than for Bingo. But recent changes in Virginia’s drinking laws
and increased concerns about legal liability have necessitated a rethinking
of college social life, both in Lexington and elsewhere. Keg parties are
becoming more and more infrequent, and it has become clear that alter-
natives need to be sought to fill a perceived void.

In his remarks on Founders’ Day, President John D. Wilson spoke about
some of the changes that members of the Washington and Lee community
need to make in the fabric of their lives. He mentioned in particular the
problems of students who drink to the point where they must be hospitalized,
and of those who unnecessarily and wantonly destroy University and frater-
nity property. Solutions to such problems are not easily found, but the
University’s proposed Fraternity Renaissance Program is one step in the
right direction. Albeit on a smaller scale than that ambitious program, Bingo
Night was another positive step. We commend the SAB for daring to try
something new, and we look forward to many other enjoyable evenings
spent out at the pavilion, listening intently to the call of ‘‘O-64!’’ and “‘I-28!”"

-A.B.C.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee On the Inside

Volume 64, Number 1, Winter 1989

 

ANNE COULLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
PaTRICK HINELY, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

W. Dan McGrew, ’52, President
Atlanta, Ga.

Joun D. Kuinepinst, ’71, ’78L, Vice President
San Diego, Calif.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JaMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Associate Secretary
Lexington, Va.

 

Directors

DANIEL T. BALFourR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

C. HowarpD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JoHN A. COCKLEREECE JR., ’76, ’79L 2
Winston-Salem, N.C.

James J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73 :
sieve 7 Banking and the Global Economy

VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Staunton, Va.

Ctay T. JACKSON, *76 10 Nicknames, Cats, and Catsup Bottles
Nashville, Tenn.

RosBertT D. LARugE, ’72
Houston, Texas

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70 15 The W&L Gazette
Washington, D.C.

EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., ’61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio

THomas P. O’BRIEN Jr., ’58, ’60L 23 The Generals’ Report
Cincinnati, Ohio

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
Baltimore, Md. 27

EUGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53 30 Class Notes
Darien, Conn.

WILLIAM E. SMITH JR., ’63 :
Birmingham, Ala. 44 In Memoriam

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.

RICHARD R. WARREN, ’57

New York, N.Y. 46 And Furthermore

 

 

Exploring the Unknown

 

 

 

 

 

Alumni News

 

 

 

 

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas. Front and back cover photos by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

Published four times a year in September, December, March, and June Photo on p. 3 by Eve Morra
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450.

All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington

and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at

Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1989 Washington and Lee University

Exploring
the Unknown

Research Program Receives High Marks

 

by Anne Coulling

s you make your way down the long
Aprce in Washington and Lee’s

Howe Hall, you can begin to detect
the odor of chemicals and to hear a
rhythmical noise, which sounds something
like a tambourine playing percussion to the
music emanating from a nearby radio. You
find the door labeled ‘‘Chemical Research’’
and walk past rows of beakers and graduated
cylinders and brown bottles bearing exotic-
looking strings of letters and numbers that
constitute chemical formulae. In the center
of the room you find a young chemist, dress-
ed in blue jeans and a loose-fitting Fancy
Dress T-shirt, plastic goggles perched on her
nose, staring intently at—a coffee pot.

Well, it used to be a coffee pot, anyway.
Now it has a glass tube attached to it, which
is filled with a substance the student, junior
Sarah Allen, scientifically refers to as “‘pur-
ple stuff.’’ The tube, which rotates back and
forth to create the odd noise, is attached in
turn to a much longer series of rubber hoses
and valves that are finally connected to a
metal cart resting on the floor beside the lab
table.

The entire apparatus is called a
‘‘Kugelrohr.’’ ‘‘A what?”’ asks an acquain-
tance of Sarah’s who has dropped in on the
lab to see what’s going on.

‘‘Haven’t I told you about my
Kugelrohr?”’ Sarah responds, doubting that
she could possibly have failed to tell her
friend about this exciting piece of
technology. She proceeds to explain the
machine’s function.

‘‘I’m distilling a solution,’’ she begins.
‘“You see, the temperature is hotter in the
coffee pot than it is in the tube, so it’s get-
ting distilled. Then we will mix it with an acid
to form a salt.”’

Eventually, the salt that is created will be
used as an anti-inflammatory drug on
laboratory mice. But Sarah hasn’t much in-
terest in rodents at the moment. Right now,
all her attention is focused on her Kugelrohr.

4 ; Wen

She smiles broadly and exclaims to her
friend with the pride of a new parent, ‘‘It’s
working!’

arah Allen is not simply conducting a

run-of-the-mill Chemistry 101 experi-

ment here. Rather, her coffee-pot
project is part of ongoing original research,
one of many such undertakings funded each
year by Washington and Lee’s Robert E. Lee
Research Program.

For nearly three decades the program has
enabled W&L professors and students to
work together on genuine research projects
in the natural and social sciences and often
in the humanities as well. The R.E. Lee
Research Program was created in 1960 by a
then-anonymous gift from Dr. Gustavus
Benz Capito, a Charleston, W.Va., physician
and a member of W&L’s class of 1899.
Capito was president and medical director
of Charleston’s Kanawha Valley Hospital
and founder of that city’s Foundation for
Medical Research and Education. He died
in 1960, shortly after making the gift to
Washington and Lee.

The idea behind the R.E. Lee Research
Program was simple. ‘‘In the sciences, good
teaching is not so much talking about science
as it is involving people in science,’’ explains
H. Thomas Williams, professor of physics
and associate dean of the College. ‘‘You
have to get their hands dirty. That involves
lab work, of course, but there’s something
artificial about lab work, because the
answers are already known and therefore you
don’t go about it the same way. It’s impor-
tant to put students in a situation where they
are allowed to make mistakes, where they
can follow their hunches. That way they are
not so much science students as they are
science apprentices.’

Since the program was established, a total
of 1,738 students have ‘‘gotten their hands
dirty’ in 1,271 projects. Although most of
those have been in the natural sciences,

 

 

 

Christian Eckman (left) and Matt Sackett ap-
ply an inflammatory agent to the ears of
laboratory mice as part of a project funded by
the R.E. Lee Research Program.

others are in such areas as economics,
history, and mathematics. ‘‘I think you can
honestly say that the R.E. Lee program has
involved almost everyone On campus at
various times,’’ says Peggy H. Tilson,
secretary to the dean of the College, who
helps administer the program.

Student participants are paid a modest
stipend—‘‘a pittance,’’ Williams calls it—
for their hourly work. Most of the projects
occur during the school year, although a
handful of students opt to remain in Lex-
ington during the summer months to under-
take more extensive research work. (In ad-
dition to the regular hourly wage, the sum-
mer researchers are entitled to live in one of
the University’s residence halls and to eat in
the dining hall, free of charge.)

‘‘We like to give the students some
money because it says to them, ‘We consider
this important,’ ’’ Williams says. ‘‘This is the
absolute epitome of what we’re all about at
Washington and Lee, and we’re willing to
reward it.”’

Clearly, though, students don’t choose to
participate for the money. They don’t do it
for academic credit, either.

 

 

Why Research?

 

 

 

 

 

A Student’s Perspective

 

 

     
 

a,

lly

it
ies a oN:

‘*The beauty of this program is that we
don’t have to give college credit for research,
and that’s good for a liberal arts college,”’
says Michael A. Pleva, professor of
chemistry and a frequent faculty adviser to
Lee Research projects. ‘“‘I don’t want
students to have to make a choice between
taking three credits of research and taking
three credits of Shakespeare or art. At
Washington and Lee, we can have it both
ways.

‘‘When you take a laboratory course,
you’re not doing research. You’re reacting
to an assignment. And that’s not how it’s go-
ing to be if you do research for a living. With
this program, the students have to have the

initiative. They’re here because they want to
be.”’

hile Sarah Allen is busy with her
Kugelrohr, the rest of her
research team—consisting of
juniors Allen Brown, Christian Eckman, and
Matt Sackett—pay a visit to the animal

laboratory on the top floor of nearby Parmly
Hall.

 

 

By Matt Sackett, ’90

It was the first Tuesday after Thanksgiving vacation, and we were back
at school, refreshed and ready for the exam crunch. My research partner,
Christian Eckman, and I| had just checked with our project adviser, Dr. Lisa
Alty, for our day’s assignment, and now we were headed up to the animal
room in the attic of Parmly Hall.

Feeling important with our tray of expensive tools and that most valued
possession—a key to the elevator—we rode up the five? floors and entered
the animal room. As we pulled our mice’s cage from its rack, nothing seemed
out of the ordinary. That was until we grabbed one of the instruments to
measure the thickness of the mice’s left ears and looked down to find—
three litters of babies.

Surprise! These particular mice were all supposed to be female, separated
from males at birth. Either we had discovered spontaneous generation, or
there was a happy man running around in that cage. At any rate, our research
had to be scratched. Two months of work, down the drain. Since mice that
are nursing tend to retain more fluids, we cannot use them in our data. For-
tunately, our main goal has been to master the procedure and to establish
a baseline for comparison with data yet to be gathered, so all is not lost.
Still, this type of surprise is the norm rather than the exception for a research
assistant.

All of us in the R.E. Lee Research Program have had an experience in
which weeks of work is ruined. Whether working in the chemistry lab or the animal
room, frustrations abound. So why do we do it? It’s certainly not for the money.
We receive far less than minimum wage, and many other jobs on campus are more
profitable and less strenuous.

But where else can you gain the experience you acquire through R.E. Lee Research?
We are able to take part in a legitimate research experiment and make a true con-
tribution. We are given a chance to see the scientific method in action, to put to use
the skills that we have been taught during the past several years. Sure, we learn a
great deal in organic, inorganic, and zoology labs. But it’s here that we can perfect
our skills and really understand their significance. There’s something different about
not knowing what to expect. Probably the most important experience is failure, be-
ing sent back to the drawing board. It’s a little disconcerting at first, but you learn
to deal with it.

In my second year on Dr. Alty’s research team, I’ve seen my fair share of failures.
But we’ve also had our successes. We are attempting to locate an inhibitor of
leukotriene A 4 synthetase (LTA ‘ synthetase), which is an enzyme in a chain that leads
to inflammation. I spent my first year in the chemistry lab, making analogs of N,N-
diethylcarbamazine, our lead compound. This year I will be inducing inflammation
in the ears of the mice with Arachadonic acid and then testing the different analogs
we created in the lab for their anti-inflammatory activities. Our goal is to isolate one
or two of these analogs that have high anti-inflammatory activity. We will present
our results, success or failure, at the meeting of the Virginia Academy of Science
this spring.

More important than anything else is the chance to work with a professor on a
one-to-one basis, to develop a closer relationship with a member of the faculty. |
think all of us who have worked with Dr. Alty have a greater respect for her abilities
in the lab and in the classroom than we would otherwise have had. I’m sure this is
true for all of the research teams on campus. To those who orchestrated this R.E.
Lee Research Program, we all owe a great deal of thanks, and we should all hope
that it can continue for many years to come.

 

Matt Sackett is a chemistry major from Lynchburg, Va. He is a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
the freshman honor society, and Alpha Epsilon Delta, a professional organization for premedical
students.

 

W&L

3

 

os
a
Py ‘
5
- o
ey

\
i
; a
: :

it
-
:
¢
iF
‘
i

Robert E. Lee researchers Matt Sackett, Sarah
Allen, Christian Eckman, and Allen Brown
assemble before the portrait of the program’s
founder, Dr. Gustavus Benz Capito, which
hangs in Howe Hall.

4 W&L

 

The students refer to this section of cam-
pus as the ‘‘Parmly attic,’’ a term that seems
particularly apt as they file into the low, lit-
tle room filled nearly to the ceiling with
animal cages. Mice, gerbils, and even a few
rabbits are kept in this room, which sounds
and smells rather like a veterinarian’s office
or a pet shop.

Under the watchful eye of Lisa T. Alty,
assistant professor of chemistry and the proj-
ect adviser, the students work as a team to
apply an inflammatory agent to the ears of
tiny white mice. One student measures the
liquid into a ‘‘pipette,’’ an instrument which
resembles a syringe, while another of the
young researchers cradles the mouse in his
hands and the third applies the solution to
the animal’s ears.

Eventually, the anti-inflammatory agent
that Sarah is working to prepare will be given
to the mice to try to counteract the itching

 

and swelling that will result from this par-
ticular procedure. The agent is similar to
aspirin, and, conceivably, this experiment
could help develop a new medication with
potential benefits to humans.

Occasionally, projects sponsored by the
R.E. Lee Research Program do make
substantial contributions to scientific
knowledge. That is not, however, the pro-
gram’s primary goal. ‘‘This is a teaching pro-
cess,’’ Professor Pleva explains. ‘‘These kids
aren’t necessarily going to turn out unique
work. They are only here for a few years,
so they aren’t going to publish like people
who do this for a living. But it does prepare
them for graduate school, so that they will
be able to do that sort of thing.

‘‘When our graduates leave here and go
on to grad school, they’re not afraid of walk-
ing into a lab. You can lay the credit for that
right at the feet of R.E. Lee.”’

They aren’t afraid to share their findings,
either. Many Lee researchers present papers
at the annual meeting of the Virginia
Academy of Science. Those who conduct
summer projects get together once a week to
have lunch and to discuss their research with
their peers.

‘*Just as important as learning research
techniques is learning how to present your
findings,’’ Pleva believes. ‘‘That’s crucial,
too, if you’re going to be doing research for
the rest of your life.’’

Of course, some students do have the op-
portunity to see their research published as
part of an ongoing project by a member of
the faculty. One professor who has long col-
laborated with students using the help of
R.E. Lee research grants is Leonard E. Jar-
rard, professor of psychology, who is involv-
ed in research on a section of the brain call-
ed the hippocampus. On any given day, one
of Jarrard’s assistants can be found in
Washington and Lee’s psychology lab, shut-
tling rats through mazes, writing specializ-
ed computer programs, or watching the
response of rodents to such stimuli as lights
and buzzers.

‘It’s not always the most exciting work
in the world,’’ concedes Beverly N. Bowring,
research technician in the psychology depart-
ment. ‘‘Running rats through mazes all day

‘‘We wouldn’t want to make a physicist
out of a born lawyer. But to make a
lawyer out of a born physicist is a
crime, ”’

 

 

can get a little tedious. But these students get
to learn so much, and they know that they
are gaining valuable experience. Professor
Jarrard has an international reputation, and
they are working side by side with him on
important research.”’

It is that close contact between students
and faculty that is perhaps one of the most
beneficial aspects of the Lee research pro-
gram. ‘‘Even more than in the classroom,
research reveals the real purpose of educa-
tion,’’ claims Kenneth P. Ruscio, ’76, assis-

tant dean of students for freshmen and
residence life and assistant professor of
politics. Ruscio is currently working with
senior Jenny Bray under the auspices of the
R.E. Lee Research Program to study the
concept of leadership. At the end of their
project, they hope to produce an article to
submit for publication in a scholarly journal.

**Knowledge is never really fixed, but
people are always out there molding it,”’
Ruscio continues. ‘Often there’s the impres-
sion that professors go into class and

 

Budding researcher Sarah Allen takes a peek insider her Kugelrohr, a contraption that distills
chemical solutions.

dispense a lot of information for students to
learn. But through the process of research,
students realize that professors don’t always
know everything.

**About 30 seconds into our first conver-
sation about leadership, I asked Jenny if she
thought Hitler was a leader. ‘‘She thought
a few moments and then said, ‘Yes.’ I said,
‘I disagree.’ I happen to believe that there’s
a moral component to leadership. All along
we’ve had very different views on the sub-
ject, but she has affected mine and I hope
I have affected
hers.”’

Participation in
research projects
yields other ben-
efits as well. ‘‘If we
didn’t have a low
student-faculty
ratio and an em-
phasis on indi-
~ vidual attention at

_ Washington and
Lee, we couldn’t
have a program
like this,’’ believes
Dean Williams.
‘Students don’t
use contact with
their professors
just to listen to
them, but to em-
ulate them, to find
out whether they
like this thing call-
ed research.’’

Sometimes,
students find, re-
search isn’t par-
ticularly likeable.
Such as the time
that Sarah Allen
had worked on a
project for five weeks, only to see a tube tip
over and spill all the solution she had work-
ed so hard to create.

‘*Labs almost always work,”’ she says.
‘*They’re supposed to work. But research
doesn’t always work, and a lot of people go
into research and find out it wasn’t what they
thought it would be.’’

W&L 5

‘*Research reveals the
true purpose of
education. ”’

 

R.E. Lee faculty veterans like Dean
Williams and Professor Pleva admit that one
of the program’s greatest contributions
throughout the years has been to discourage
some students from going to medical or
graduate school, to convince them that spen-
ding time in the lab wasn’t really what they
wanted after all.

But for those students who find they do
like research, there is no substitute.

‘‘Recent projections by the National
Science Foundation show that out of 1,500
high school seniors who say they are in-
terested in science, only 850 intend to major
by the time they are freshmen in college,”’
Williams says. ‘‘Out of those, only 500 ac-
tually get their degrees in science.

‘‘Those numbers should grow, not
decrease. College should be much more ex-
citing in any given field than high school was.

‘*We’ve got to be able to excite kids who
have an interest in science, and Robert E. Lee
Research is one way to do it. We certainly
wouldn’t want to make a physicist out of a
born lawyer. But to make a lawyer out of
a born physicist is a crime.”’

ack in the chemistry lab, one week

later, Sarah Allen’s Kugelrohr-

produced solution has been
transformed.

**L_ook at my crystals!’’ she beams as she
proudly holds a beaker aloft. ‘“They came
out!’’

‘*This really isn’t an exciting place,’’ she
admits with all modesty to a classmate peer-
ing over her shoulder as she turns on a
bunsen burner and prepares to heat her
crystals. ‘‘This is just the melting point. This
isn’t thrilling.’’

Yet, despite the professed humility, an
observer can sense a feeling of excitement in
this Washington and Lee laboratory that
even Madame Curie would have a tough time
matching.

6 W&L

 

In the animal laboratory in Parmly Hall, junior Matt Sackett consults with Lisa Alty, assistant
professor of chemistry and director of his R.E. Lee Research project, before treating baby mice
with an inflammatory solution.

 

‘
r)

}

Mm

 

Banking and the
Global Economy

by Thomas P. Rideout, ’63

 

he subject of financial services

restructuring and the global economy

is a broad and complicated one. Yet
it is important for us to explore it, because
it will help us understand a watershed period
in world economic history.

Any thinking individual knows that in
1988, there isn’t a place on this earth where
one can be said to be truly unaffected by,
or free from the influence of, events in other
places. Our future performance almost cer-
tainly will depend on our ability to decipher
these events.

In order to decipher, we must first define.
What exactly is a global economy? Basical-
ly it is the linking of local, regional, and na-
tional markets for goods, services, and finan-
cing in such a way that their operation can
only be fully understood in the context of a
larger, integrated ‘‘global’’ market.

We are already well on our way to that
global economy. Barclays Bank of London
reports that between 1981 and 1983, inter-
national bank lending grew 20 percent. Then
it grew another 20 percent between 1983 and
1985. In the next two years, it increased by
62 percent.

And competitive pressures are building
everywhere—in Japan, Korea, and even
China, where market forces are being given
greater play. Some forecasters predict that
the coming 100 years will be the ‘‘Asian cen-
tury.”’

Take a look at Europe, too. In 1992 trade
barriers among European Common Market
partners will be removed, and free markets
will reign. Restrictive threats against foreign
competitors are promised unless foreigners
reciprocate and open their markets to
competitors.

A recent article on the front page of the
Wall Street Journal reported that Spain’s
banks and corporations are merging,

 

Thomas P. Rideout, vice chairman of First
Union National Bank of North Carolina in
Charlotte, is president of the American
Bankers Association. He was formerly presi-
dent and chief executive officer of Savannah
Bank & Trust Co., a subsidiary of First
Railroad and Banking Co. of Georgia, which
was acquired by First Union in 1986. This arti-
cle is adapted from a speech he made at
Washington and Lee last fall.

W&L 7

 

streamlining, and cutting deals with
foreigners in anticipation of 1992. In all of
this our U.S. banks are at a serious
disadvantage.

he sources of the problem are to be
found in the stock market crash of
1929 and the early years of the Great
Depression, when laws were enacted in this
country to strengthen the safety and sound-
ness of the banking system as well as the na-
tion’s monetary system. These were well-
intentioned laws, and many were good laws.
The Banking Act of 1933, for example,
established the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, a key element in restoring con-
fidence in U.S. depository institutions.

In addition to providing deposit in-
surance, the new banking system relied on
strongly enforced capital standards, regula-
tion of credit extension, and limits on com-
petition. For example, only commercial
banks were allowed to offer non-interest pay-
ing checking accounts and thus allow access
to the payment system. The regulators’ abili-
ty to control the total number of bank
charters and to limit competition
geographically created a whole series of
banking oligopolies across the nation.

Finally, four sections of the Banking Act
of 1933, now known as the Glass-Steagall
Act, prevented the affiliation of banks and
securities firms. A number of companies
were split up. For example, today’s Morgan
Bank and Morgan-Stanley, the investment
bank, once formed a financial powerhouse
controlled by J. P. Morgan.

Yet according to the analysis of Lowell
L. Bryan, in his book, Breaking up the Bank,
these governmental actions created a sound
banking system that served America well for
a few decades. The banking model that was
created depended upon a bundling together
or pooling of revenues, expenses, and
capital.

Bryan asserts that three implicit assump-
tions were at work in all banks: 1) the dif-
ference between interest paid by borrowers
and interest paid to depositors covered all
costs; 2) each bank focused operating expen-
ditures on common service for all customers;
and 3) a common pool of capital was

8 W&L

dedicated to absorbing any and all losses.

This system of banking oligopolies allow-
ed oligopolistic pricing, meaning that prices
were higher than they would have been in
more competitive conditions. Hence most
banks charged the same prices and competed
instead on service and convenience. And
while this system made banking profitable
and stable, such conditions came at the ex-
pense of the better customers. The good
customers ended up subsidizing the bank and
other customers.

With the advent of postwar inflation and
new competition based on opportunity and
rapidly emerging new technology, the foun-
dation of this system began to crack in the
1970s. The profitable customers, such as big
corporate borrowers, moved on to better op-
portunities, and the banks were left holding
the bag of high costs and limited options. As
a result, banks as institutions became increas-
ingly less competitive in a financial
marketplace where other players could now
displace them.

For instance, from 1977 to 1985 banks’
share of all financial assets held by financial
institutions declined from 38 percent to 29
percent. And the competitive inefficiency of
U.S. banking was not just limited to
domestic markets, where non-bank com-
petitors were making great headway. U.S.
banks have become increasingly irrelevant in-
ternationally as well.

Another key symptom of vast change is
that our deposit insurance system is no longer
able to perform the simple function for
which it was created. Because we have fail-
ed to update our regulatory structure in order
to allow depository institutions to adapt to
a market-driven business, our deposit in-
surance system is now underwriting many
unintended risks. It is doing this without ade-
quate resources in the case of the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
The current crisis of the savings and loan in-
stitutions dramatizes the need for fundamen-
tal restructuring of our system, a restructur-
ing that is market-driven.

ryan and other thoughtful analysts
have brought us a new message. The

message is that we should rethink, or

‘‘break up,”’ the model of the bank and base
the new model on three things:

e The full disaggregation or separation
of the functions now called ‘‘banking’’ into
discrete businesses; for example, deposit ser-
vicing, consumer lending, trust services, and
investment. Each banking institution would
then focus on its market strengths and spin
off unrelated or unprofitable functions.

e The reliance on competition,
technology, and the marketplace, rather than
regulation, to redefine the business of
banking.

e The widespread application of
securitized credit technology.

This last process would be greatly enlarg-
ed through the involvement of banks, and
it’s worth spending a few moments on this
aspect of Bryan’s proposed strategy.

The so-called ‘‘securitization process’’ is
really nothing more than the metamorphosis
of a loan into a ‘‘security,’’ something that
can be bought and sold in financial markets.
Take car loans, for example. A lender loans
you the money, combines your loan with
other car loans, issues securities backed by
those loans to investors, and channels the in-
terest paid by car-loan borrowers through to
the investor.

Pieces of your monthly car payment go
to anyone along the chain who had a. piece
of the action in converting that loan to a
security. Everyone makes a little money, and
the risk is spread thinly enough to cover most
losses. At the same time, new capital from
the investors in the securities is returned to
the financial marketplace to make more car
loans.

What makes all of this possible is com-
puter power and the ability to harness it.
Structured securitized credits are possible
because computers can track all of the com-
plicated financial inflows and outflows and
ensure proper accounting integrity for these
financial flows. Securities like these offer the
advantage of being liquid and tradeable.
They are also officially ‘‘rated,’’ or graded
for risk, which makes it easier for investors
to estimate their degree of risk and return.

Securitization is not a new concept, of
course. The secondary mortgage markets
have been using it since the 1970s. Mortgage

‘‘How prepared are we as a nation to
enter with other nations into a global
economy when our citizens don’t under-
stand the value of saving and our laws
don’t permit our most important finan-
cial institutions to compete?’’

 

OE

bankers do it every day—in volume. But for
non-mortgage loans, it is a new and tremen-
dously promising market.

The first car loans were securitized in
1984, and the market that year totaled about
$140 million. By 1986 the volume had
jumped to $8.5 billion. But despite the
growth potential, the market remains
relatively untapped. By the end of 1987, only
about 35 percent of home mortgages had
been securitized, 5 percent of auto loans, 1
percent of commercial mortgages, and 2 per-
cent of credit-card loans.

Securitized loans at the end of last year
totaled $770 billion. Yet the market is a
whopping $4 trillion, most of which resides
in depository institutions. What is holding
back efforts to get at that $4 trillion?
Something we’ve already discussed—
Glass-Steagall.

truly global economy will never
AA sumone obsolescence. Yet ob-
».solescence is what we’ll have in this
country in the absence of true financial-
services restructuring, which of course must
begin with Glass-Steagall. It must end with
a bank model similar to the ones Bryan and
others propose. Or it must find form in a
more comprehensive model known as the
financial services holding company. It must
also allow banking organizations to compete
in structured securitized credit as well as
other capital market securities.

We may already be seeing that ob-
solescence. U.S. banks no longer dominate
as they once did. In market capitalization
measured in 1988, just two of the top 50 in-
ternational banks were U.S. banks. Citicorp
was 31st, J. P. Morgan 34th.

Ranked by assets, 17 of the world’s
largest 25 banks are Japanese—and that in-
cludes nine of the top 10. By deposits, again
17 of the top 25 banks are Japanese, and all
of the top 10 are from Japan. The largest
U.S. bank, Citibank, is not among the top
10.

Does it matter that our banks are not
among the biggest in the world? Not
necessarily. Here’s what a Washington Post
editorial said about that last year:

Financial influence is shifting to countries
whose people save more of their money and
spend less than Americans do. The size of
individual banks is irrelevant to national
power. But the size of a country’s banking
system, taken altogether, is another mat-
ter. As a general rule, lenders have more
leverage on the world’s affairs than bor-
rowers. It’s not the size of Japanese and
European banks that ought to worry
Americans but rather the size of the steadily
rising American indebtedness to them.

This has resulted in a trend many label the
‘‘selling of America.’’ Warren Buffett, of
Berkshire Hathaway, recently said about this
problem, ‘‘We are much like a wealthy fami-
ly that annually sells acreage so it can sus-
tain a lifestyle unwarranted by its current
output. Until the plantation is gone, it’s all
pleasure and no pain. In the end, however,
the family will have traded the life of an
owner for the life of a tenant farmer.”’

A study by the International Savings
Bank Institute places Japanese per-capita
savings account balances last year at $38,439.
That’s up by some $11,000, probably reflect-
ing the strength of the yen. By contrast, the
U.S. per-capita savings balances last year
were just $9,888, up about $350 from the
previous year. In fact, America’s total
foreign debt last year stood at $368.2
billion—36.8 percent above the previous
year. We are, as the news people like to say,
the world’s largest debtor nation.

Or consider this. The October issue of
Harper’s magazine reports that the estimated
value of all unclaimed beverage-container
deposits in New York State last year was $66
million. That’s $66 million worth of bottle
deposits that no one bothered to claim.
Meanwhile, in Japan, the average beer bot-
tle is reused 20 times.

This is a serious problem. As the Post
noted, ‘‘Financial influence is shifting to
countries whose people save more of their
money and spend less than Americans do.”’
I am reminded of an old Middle East pro-
verb: ‘‘The beginning of wisdom comes when
a person plants trees the shade under which
he knows he will never sit.’’

I raise this point only to ask, how
prepared are we as a nation to enter with
other nations into a global economy when

our citizens don’t understand the value of
saving and our laws don’t permit our most
important financial institutions to compete?

Americans must relearn thrift. And
America’s banks must be permitted to prac-
tice their skills in the real world. That means
a new kind of bank, and perhaps a new kind
of society as well.

I may sound pessimistic about the future
of banking. I’m not. Rather I’m encourag-
ed with the prospects for opportunity. It is
clear that the market has outrun our 50-plus-
year-old legal and regulatory structure. But
the marketplace and fierce competition are
forcing the regulators and courts to adapt
because the Congress has been reluctant to
address the competitive turf issues.

Critical votes in the last session, however,
indicate that the Congress is beginning to
understand that the ultimate safety and
soundness of the banking system depend on
profitability. And profitability will require
restructuring of a banking system that was
created for the much different world of the
1930s.

 

Nicknames,

Catsup Bo ttles The Family Life of the R.E. Lees

by Mary P. Coulling

, é ears ago, I knew a solemn old gentleman, much
given to long speeches and the habit of
dominating every conversation. His wife, a meek

little woman, spent her time guiding the talk inevitably

toward my elderly friend’s long-winded comments. I

remember thinking that their children, all grown by the

time I knew them, must have had an insufferably boring
childhood.

But then I learned three important things about that
family. All of the sons and daughters had nicknames—
not just diminutives like ‘‘Joey’’ or ‘‘Sue,’’ but truly im-
aginative nicknames—‘‘Bopsy’”’ and ‘‘Cupid.’’ I also
discovered that during the years the children were little,
they were permitted to keep an extraordinary assortment
of pets, a real menagerie. Finally, I learned that all the
family members, parents and siblings alike, were fond
of teasing one another in a gentle and comfortable way.
My whole view of that family changed because it seemed
to me that nicknames, lots of pets, and the easy give-and-
take of teasing showed that the members of that
household were relaxed and happy with each other, in
sharp contrast to the stiff pedagogical faces they later
showed to strangers.

In much the same way, many people have believed
that the children of General and Mrs. R. E. Lee must have
been overshadowed by their strong-willed parents and had
little fun in childhood. Lee’s extraordinary self-discipline
and his lofty principles have perhaps led the public to
assume that his formal exterior and pontifical words car-
ried over into his family life. Nothing, however, could
be farther from the truth, as we can discover by looking
at the same three criteria I used to understand my friends
of the 20th century.

Robert Edward and Mary Anna Randolph Custis Lee
had seven children, all but the eldest born at Arlington,
a handsome manor house high on the Virginia bluffs
overlooking Washington City that had been built by the
children’s grandfather Mr. Custis, not only as a home
for his wife and only child but also as a fitting repository
for countless mementoes that had belonged to his
stepgrandfather George Washington.

The eldest child, born on an Army post at Old Point
Comfort, Va., in 1832, was named for his grandfather—
George Washington Custis Lee. With such a ponderous
name, it was perhaps inevitable that he should acquire
a nickname. He got three—Boo, or Bouse, or sometimes
Bunny. Mrs. Lee confided to her mother that ‘‘Bunny
is too sweet. He is the most restless little creature you ever

 

Mary P. Coulling, a Lexington, Va., writer, is the author of The
Lee Girls, a 1987 book about the four daughters of Robert E.
and Mary Custis Lee.

10 = W&L

Cats, and

 

saw and very mischievous.’’ Lee, too, was concerned
about his firstborn’s disposition. ‘‘Our dear little Boo
seems to have among his friends a reputation for being
hard to manage,”’ he wrote. The child’s early temper was
quickly subdued, however, and he became a solemn, silent
young man.

Lee was away surveying the boundary line between
Ohio and the territory of Michigan when the second child
and first daughter, Mary Custis Lee, was born on July
7, 1835. When the father returned home in the fall for
his first glimpse of little ‘‘Mee,’’ he found Mrs. Lee still
sick from afterbirth complications, young Boo teething,
and the baby suffering from croup. Night after night Lee
sat up with Mee in his arms, helping her to catch her
breath and sleep soundly.

The third child, born in 1837, was another boy with
another long name, William Henry Fitzhugh Lee, and he
soon became Rooney or Roon. He was a large, boisterous
child, full of mischief. ‘‘Rooney is playing around me,”’
Mrs. Lee wrote to her mother from St. Louis. He ‘‘[is]
pulling my pens,
paper and ink, and is
now trying to throw
his Papa’s hat out of
the window.’’ She
found tending to
Rooney a strenuous
occupation, but his
father, she said, ‘‘has
come to the conclu-
sion that there is not
another such child in’’
all the world.

Throughout his
life, Rooney was the
sibling most loved by
his brothers and
sisters, but he remain-
ed volatile throughout
his youth, dropping
out of Harvard during
the final semester of
his senior year, talking
his mother into allow-
ing him to join the Ar-
my, and then resign-
ing after a few months
to get married. His
wounding and capture
during the war, and
the death during that

 

 

b a
a, co
we ee = a ~

Left, the eldest Lee
daughter, Mary Custis;
above, Robert E. Lee
in 1865 (photo by
Mathew Brady;
reproduced courtesy of
the National Archives)

period of his wife and
infant children, con-
siderably subdued the
young giant, but he
nonetheless managed
to radiate charm and
vitality. ‘‘Rooney still
has a gay, light
heart,’’ Mrs. Lee af-
firmed in 1866.

The fourth and
fifth children in the
family were two girls,
Anne Carter and
Eleanor Agnes, born
14 months apart in the
summer of 1839 and
February of 1841. At
first Annie was called
**Little Raspberry”’
because she was born
with a small, reddish
birthmark, but happi-
ly the blemish vanish-
ed and the child
became simply ‘‘Sweet
Annie’ or ‘‘gentle
Annie.’’

Eleanor Agnes was
nicknamed Wig, Wig-
gie, or Aggie. She was
a frail child, who
**scarcely eats enough
to keep a bird alive,’’
according to her
mother, who was also
distraught when An-
nie suffered a serious
eye injury in her early
years. Her disfigure-
ment caused Robert
E. Lee to provide
special compensation
for her in his will,
, because ‘“‘she may be
pe more in want of aid

than the rest.”’

Rooney, too, had a dangerous accident during the
years when the family lived at Fort Hamilton, N.Y.
Disobeying his mother’s strict instruction to remain in
the house, he slipped away to the barn where he sliced
off the ends of two fingers with a straw cutter. After the
surgeon tried to sew the fingers together again, Lee sat
by the boy’s bedside for many nights to keep the lad quiet
and hasten the healing. Three weeks of therapy, however,
were unsuccessful, and the hand did not knit. ‘‘If children
could only know the misery, the desolating sorrow with
which their acts sometimes overwhelm their parents,’’ Lee
wrote to Boo, ‘‘they could not have the heart thus cruel-
ly to afflict them.’’ Rooney was only somewhat contrite,
sorry to have upset the family and promising not to
disobey in the future, but he was more concerned that
he had been forbidden to take a set of new chickens back
to Arlington with him.

The third son, born in the fall of 1843, was named
Robert Edward Lee Jr., and he was usually called Rob,

aie

3 Peon al
a i

=. ea ihe 4
ae
—— r] ‘hay wt ate”
4 Feta.
be a
P ee

: ,
a
die 8 2

Robertus, or Burtus. After the Civil War, when Rob was
farming in Tidewater Virginia and had recurring attacks
of malaria, his father altered the nickname to ‘‘Rober-
tus Sickus.’’

Finally, in 1846, the youngest child and fourth girl
arrived, given the name Mildred Childe Lee. It had been
a difficult delivery for Mrs. Lee and the father was
grateful to learn that ‘‘poor Mama’”’ was over her ordeal,
and he longed to kiss the baby’s ‘‘fragrant mouth and
feel that little heart fluttering against mine.”’

But he saw wee Milly only briefly before he had to
leave with his regiment for Texas and Mexico. When he
returned home two years later, he found that the baby
in her cradle had turned into such an effervescent,
vivacious toddler that he nicknamed her ‘‘Life’’ or
‘**Precious Life.’’ She was, perhaps, his favorite child,
and the two drew increasingly close after Appomattox
when Lee and Life used to walk night after night about
the deserted, fire-ravaged streets of Richmond. After the
family moved to Lexington, Lee told a neighbor that
Precious Life was his ‘‘light-bearer. The house is never
dark,’’ he said, ‘‘when she is in it.”’

So there was the family: seven children in 14 years,
with seven nicknames—Boo, Mee, Rooney, Raspberry,
Wiggie, Robertus, and Precious Life. Hardly names one
might expect from staid Victorian parents, but names tru-
ly indicative of the family bonds that kept them close even
during times of war and separation.

at Arlington, the children should have an assortment

of cats, dogs, and horses. More unusual pets were
the flocks of chickens, rabbits, and pigeons, and later a
cow and a squirrel.

The most numerous of the animals were cats, since
Grandfather Custis had a special fondness for felines, as
did Mrs. Lee and Mildred. The old gentleman’s favorites
were old Tom and young Tom, so spoiled that they
usurped the cushion of Mr. Custis’s favorite easy chair,
leaving him to perch uncomfortably on the arm.

In addition to young Tom and old Tom, there were
Thomas Chalmers, Thomas Aquinas, and little Tom Tit-
ta, a puss given into the care of an old servant, Uncle
George, when the family had to abandon the plantation
in May 1861. When Precious Life worried that Tom Tit-
ta might be harmed by the Yankees, Lee reassured her
that the kitten was a resilient little creature ‘‘who no doubt
lords it in a high manner. . .at Arlington. He will have
strange things to tell when you next see him.’’ But Mildred
did not return to Arlington till long after Tom Titta’s life
expectancy was passed.

Once the family had settled into a house in Lexington
at the end of the war, Life again began collecting cats.
‘*Tom the Nipper,’’ Lee wrote to a cousin, ‘‘has been
reared in the stable and had all the advantages of
Traveller’s company,’’ thus acquiring ‘‘the most refined
manners.’’ Other felines included Fritz, Love, Baxter (said
to be ‘‘the color of moonlight on the water’’), Mrs. Smith,
Gustavus Adolphus (often shortened to plain Gus), and
Mitten and Latra, who had semiannual batches of kit-
tens. When Mildred’s cats had kittens, General Lee af-
firmed, ‘‘the world wags cheerily with her and. . .she
would not call the king her uncle.”’

Lee himself preferred dogs and horses. The first fami-
ly dog was Dart, a drowning mongrel Lee rescued from

W&L 11

| t is not surprising that when the family was together

the ships’ channel near Fort Hamilton. Dart’s puppy, a
black and tan terrier named Spec, became the children’s
constant companion at Fort Hamilton, Baltimore, and
Arlington. Once, when he was not permitted to attend
church with the family, Spec was so lonely that he manag-
ed to jump out of the second-story window, and he ap-
peared at the church door as they were going in, much
to the delight of the children.

Spec adored Lee and remained close to his side
whenever the rest of the family were away. ‘‘Spec has
become so jealous that he will hardly let me look at the
cats,’’ Lee wrote to the children at Arlington. “‘He seems
afraid that I am going off from him, and never lets me
stir without him. Lies down in the office from eight to
four without moving, and turns himself before the fire
as the side from it gets cold.’’

After Spec’s mysterious disappearance in Baltimore,
Lee acquired a huge Newfoundland puppy. ‘‘The Pup
is well but melancholy,’’ Lee wrote to Mildred in 1861.
‘*He is very belligerent and carries on perpetual combats
with the wild cats.’’ Stolen from the plantation during
the war, the Newfoundland was eventually returned to
the Confederacy. After moving to Lexington, Lee was
given another dog, one that he hoped would keep Life’s
cats in line, but this post-war dog preferred ease to cat-
chasing, much to the General’s regret.

Everyone knows about General Lee’s famous gray
warhorse Traveller, but few people know much about the
other family horses. Among the first of these was a small
white mustang that Lee purchased in Mexico and had
shipped from Vera Cruz to the Baltimore harbor. The
Mexican pony belonged to Rob, but all the children rode
him, and he grew to be a gentle favorite among the Lees,
though he often threw young guests who attempted to
ride him. Lee’s valet, old Jim Connally, used to say that
he and the pony Santa Anna were the first ‘‘men on the
walls of Chapultepec,’’ the Mexican fortress captured by
Lee’s troops in 1847.

Along with a mare, Grace Darling, Mrs. Lee’s favorite
mount, Santa Anna moved with the family to Baltimore
and West Point, when Lee was stationed at both loca-
tions. Santa Anna died soon after Arlington was occupied
in 1861 and Grace Darling was stolen by Yankee troops
a year later. All of the Lees were excellent and frequent
riders, Annie and Agnes taking an excursion almost every
summer morning at Arlington, while Mildred and her
father rode daily during their Lexington years. Lee rode
Traveller, of course, and Mildred was on Lucy Long, a
horse given to Lee by Jeb Stuart during the war.

Her father ‘‘loved to talk to our horses as if they were
people,’’ Mildred remembered years later, ‘‘calling mine
‘Miss Lucy,’ and continually calling Traveller to task
because instead of walking he would try to go fast.’’ Lucy
Long was usually tethered behind the president’s house,
but Traveller had the privilege of grazing in the front yard.
‘*I have often seen General Lee leave the walk,”’ a stu-
dent of the time related, ‘‘approach the old horse, and
caress him for a minute or two, as though they bore a
common grief in the memory of the past.”’

In addition to the domesticated horses, dogs, and cats,
there were more unusual pets as well. At Arlington Agnes
and Annie had a number of small gray and brown rab-
bits, Rooney kept pigeons, and all the children raised
chickens, which they named for their friends. After the
war Mildred was given a pet cow, with the understand-

12 W&L

ing that she learn
to milk it and
churn butter.

But surely the
most dangerous
and unusual pet
was a_ half-wild
squirrel, which
Mildred coaxed in-
to the rented house
in Richmond
where she, her
sisters, and her
mother lived dur-
ing the latter part
of the war. Life
named the creature
Custis Morgan,
after her brother
Custis and the
romantic Con-
federate general
John Morgan, who
escaped from a
Union prison in “4
1863 to receive a > oe be
hero’s welcome in Wire ree
Richmond. Mrs.
Lee had _ been
tolerant of the rab-
bits, the pigeons,
and the chickens,
but she found the
squirrel disconcer-
ting. ‘‘Mildred has
a pet squirrel call-
ed ‘Morgan,’ ”’ she
wrote, ‘‘because he
will not stay in his cage. . . .[He] runs all over the house,
jumps on my head, & pulls off my cap & shawl. . . .He
bites, too, very hard sometimes, especially strangers.”’

General Lee, also, was unenthusiastic about Custis
Morgan and he urged Life to ‘‘immerse his head under
the water for five minutes during his daily bath,’’ or
perhaps the pet could be persuaded to do his patriotic
duty by becoming an ingredient in ‘‘squirrel soup thicken-
ed by peanuts,’’ to be fed to wounded soldiers. Happily,
the squirrel simply disappeared one morning, presumably
returning to the woods around the Confederate capital.

ne can see, from a quick review of Lee’s letters
() about horses and the squirrel, that he often used

pets as a part of his teasing repartee with family
members. He compared Traveller’s solemnity with that
of his son Custis. ‘‘Traveller and Custis are both well,”’
he wrote from Lexington to one of his daughters, ‘‘and
they pursue their usual dignified gaits and habits.’’ When
he wrote to Mildred about her chickens prior to the war,
he compared hers to his own ‘‘soldier hens,’’ who had
to adjust to bivouac conditions. And he made great fun
of the personal names that his children gave to their pet
fowl. Rob, he said, would not consider eating ‘“‘Laura
Chilton’’ or ‘‘Don Ella McKay,’’ and he most certainly
would abstain from devouring ‘‘Mildred,’’ Rob’s hen
named for Precious Life.

me ots © owe ¥

, ae ID
ac,

ss a.

 

Above, Mildred Childe
Lee in 1870; right,
Eleanor Agnes Lee, cir-
ca. 1861 (both photos
courtesy of the Virginia
Historical Society)

But Lee’s gentle teasing moved far beyond the sub-
ject of pets. He enjoyed kidding Mrs. Lee—the ‘‘Mim,”’
he always called her—for being habitually late and for
not keeping accurate records of the numbers of socks she
knitted and sent to his soldiers during the war. He had
fun chiding Mildred and Agnes for their enthusiasm for
parties and beaux—‘‘The girls would send love if I could
find them’’—and he was amused that they were not more
proficient at sewing and canning after they moved to Lex-
ington, where they attempted to fashion ‘‘calico dresses
with unskillful hands’’ and experimented with ‘tomatoe
catsup that would explode’’ because the bottles had not
been sealed with sufficient care.

He laughed at Mildred when she gave
voluble advice to hard-working students
and weary parents of exasperating
offspring, and he twitted the
girls about being charter
members of a Reading
Club that he char-
acterized as ‘‘a
Great institution for
the discussion of
apples and chest-
nuts but quite
innocent of the
pleasures of
literature.’’
Lee was also
perfectly will-
ing to make
fun of him-
self. Sedate
Lexington
ladies were
stunned one
day, while they
were being serv-
ed tea in Mrs.
Lee’s parlor, to
have the General
suddenly dance into
. the room, a tea cozy
placed squarely on his
large gray head. As sudden-
ly as he had come he disap-
peared, leaving the women
speechless but eager to depart to spread
the story about the remarkable new col-
lege president.

Is it any wonder that a year later Rob Lee—Robertus
Sickus—should remember that ‘‘Papa was always bright
and gay with us little folk, romping, playing, and joking
with us. . .joyous and familiar,’’ or that Mildred—
Precious Life—should indicate that her father was ‘‘the
light, the soul, the mind, the joy of our lives.”’

 

were too binding, since only two of the seven

children married. But certainly for Lee, the
closeness was all-important and his hope of collecting his
family together somewhere after the war became a recur-
ring theme. ‘‘I hope, after the war, that we may again
all be united,’’ he wrote to Mildred in early spring of 1862,
‘*and that I may have some pleasant years with my dear

S ome people may believe that the close family ties

children, that they may cheer the remnant of my days.”’

But his dreams could not be realized. The first break
in the family circle came in October 1862, when Annie
died of typhoid fever at Jones Springs, N.C., at the age
of 23. Lee received word in his tent, along with official
dispatches. He had known how very ill his ‘‘gentle An-
nie’? was, but now ‘‘to know that I shall never see her
again on earth, that her place in our circle, which I always
hoped one day to enjoy, is forever vacant, is agonising
in the extreme.’’ Her brothers and sisters were equally
heartbroken. ‘‘I had not even heard of poor Annie’s ill-
ness until I heard she was dead,’’ Rob lamented.

After General Lee and his tattered, starving troops
had laid down their arms at Appomattox, the remaining
family members turned to the business of living. Rooney,
now a widower and without his children, took up a lone-
ly life of farming on family property on the Pamunkey
River, as did young Rob. The rest moved to Lexington,
where Lee accepted the position of president of tiny, war-
ravaged Washington College and Custis taught civil
engineering at nearby Virginia Military Institute.

In many ways the change to a small mountain com-
munity was more difficult for the Lee women than for
the General and for Custis, who had their professional
work to occupy them. Mrs. Lee felt ‘‘like a stranger and
an exile,’’ as she wrote to a cousin. ‘‘Tho’ the people here
are exceedingly kind I am too old to take root in a new
soil.’’ And Mildred told a friend, ‘‘I am often dreadful-
ly lonely and know no one well in the whole town. . . .Do
you know what starvation of the heart and mind is? I
suffer and am dumb.”’

Mrs. Lee missed her old home intensely, and for her
daughters, the loss of Arlington meant not only the lack
of a familiar place to eat and sleep, but more important-
ly the absence of a location to which young men might
come courting. The students and younger faculty they met
in Lexington were not of the same social class they had
been reared to expect as suitors, while most of the col-
lege young people who enjoyed the company of the Lee
daughters went back home to marry their childhood
sweethearts.

Robert E. Lee, relieved to have at least some of his
family about him again, did his best to cheer them all
up. His jokes and witticisms were conscious efforts to
see the bright side of things and without realizing it, other
family members relied heavily upon what Mildred
characterized as his ‘‘cheerfullness, gaity, and interest in
a home life.’’ When he suffered his stroke in the fall of
1870, it found them ‘‘speechless—and so was he.’’ His
death brought an end to the daily family routine of
‘laughing and teasing.”’

Three years later, almost to the day, Agnes died, and
less than a month after that Mrs. Lee, leaving Custis and
Mildred alone in the ‘‘silent emptied house where every
room echoed with dead voices.’’ These two siblings were
never truly happy again, though each would become more
animated when in the company of Rooney or Rob. Custis
succeeded his father as president of the college and was
a dignified, solemn, unhappy man, always in his father’s
shadow. But a visit from Rooney brought a dramatic
change, an observer wrote, for ‘‘under the genial influence
of his brother. . .Custis threw off the sense of respon-
sibility which usually weighed heavily upon him and show-
ed what a charming personality he had.’’

Mildred, lonely and feeling keenly the lack of a per-

W&L 13

manent home, alternated her time between the somber
president’s house in Lexington and Rob’s rural home in
eastern Virginia. ‘‘It is always a comfort to be with Rob
who is so good to me,”’ she said. ‘‘My two precious nieces
occupy my entire time & heart.’’ Only Mary Custis Lee
seems to have alienated herself from the warm family con-
nections, living abroad for most of her long years, though
she readily supplied Rob with material about their hap-
py childhood when he prepared to write his father’s
biography.

Throughout his life Robert E. Lee worked diligently
to keep the family close and loving, in part because such
warmth and tenderness were vitally important to him.
Reared in a virtually fatherless environment himself, often
far away on lonely Army assignments during the early
years of his marriage, Lee seems to have needed the emo-
tional support of his seven children and his wife.

After the war, burdened with memories of thousands
of young soldiers killed, and attempting with his waning
powers to assist a new generation to rebuild the South,
Robert E. Lee needed more than ever the affection and
loving concern of his surviving children. He was only half
joking when he wrote Agnes that ‘“‘it is very hard for you

14 W&L

 

to apply to me to advise you to go away from me’’ when
she wanted to visit Richmond, and he added, ‘‘I hope
Life is not going to desert us, too.’’ Indeed, during his
last years in Lexington, he appears to have reached out
to a wider family, as when he treated students and young
faculty members as though they were his sons, reestablish-
ed his close relationship with Markie Williams, Mrs. Lee’s
young cousin, and opened his home to an assortment of
nieces and nephews.

So it seems particularly fitting that Robert Edward
Lee is buried in the Lee Chapel vault, surrounded by his
wife and six of his children, on a campus where a latter
generation of his surrogate family, attractive young men
and women of his college, study, play, and give their own
nicknames to each other and—behind their backs—to the
faculty, where dogs sleep in the sunshine on the lawn in
front of the Colonnade, and where squirrels hunt nuts
in the trees he planted. On his 182nd birthday, Lee would
appreciate here on the campus at Washington and Lee
the convergence of old bricks with new ideas, and he
would be happy to see an ever-young community of
warmth, affection, friendship, and learning flourish
where he walked, talked, teased, laughed, and loved.

Clockwise from left: Mrs. Robert E.
Lee near the end of her life; George
Washington Custis Lee and William
Henry Fitzhugh Lee (courtesy of the
Virginia Historical Society)

The WAL (,azette Sororities Colonize on Campus

early 260 Washington and Lee

women students became charter

members of three sororities during
Rush activities in January.

Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa Gam-
ma, and Chi Omega were invited to establish
chapters at the University. The sororities
were chosen by the Sorority Advisory Com-
mittee, a group of faculty members, ad-
ministrators, and students. The advisory
board heard presentations from five national
Greek organizations before selecting the
three to begin the colonization process.

The three sororities chosen are among the
oldest in the nation. Each has chapters at
other Virginia colleges and universities.

Kappa Alpha Theta was founded in 1870
at DePauw University, while Kappa Kappa
Gamma was created the same year at Mon-
mouth College in Illinois. Chi Omega was
first chartered in 1895 at the University of
Arkansas.

The Washington and Lee chapters will
receive their charters in May. For the pre-
sent time, they will use meeting rooms and
other facilities on the campus for their ac-
tivities, according to Leroy C. (Buddy)
Atkins, associate dean of students for Greek
affairs. Any decision to establish chapter
houses will rest with the individual sororities.

Meanwhile, a number of women students
have begun exploring possible alternatives to
sororities, such as eating clubs. Atkins said
that the University will fully support such
activities.

Founders’ Day includes ODK initiation

Washington and Lee held its 118th an-
nual Founders’ Day observance on Jan. 19,
Lee’s birthday.

President John D. Wilson was the
keynote speaker for the event, which was
held in Lee Chapel. (See excerpts of Wilson’s
remarks on pages 16 and 17.)

As part of the ceremony, Washington
and Lee’s chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa,
the national honorary leadership fraternity
founded at the University in 1914, tapped 21

2
tae

law and undergraduate students into
membership in recognition of their superior
achievements in various aspects of campus
life.

There were also two honorary initiates:

e Donald Henderson Baker, ’68,
founder and artistic director of Lime Kiln
Arts Inc. in Lexington, Va.; and

e William Reed Johnston, ’61, chair-
man of the board and chief executive officer
of Agora Securities Inc. in New York.

 

Honorary initiates into Omicron Delta Kappa on Founders’ Day were Donald H. Baker, ’68, and

William R. Johnston, ’61.

Parsons named capital planning coordinator

Frank A. Parsons, ’54, executive assis-
tant to the president of Washington and Lee,
has been named coordinator of capital plan-
ning at the University.

Parsons will oversee the planning for
capital improvements
such as building, land-
scaping, and parking, in
addition to working
with architects, plan-
ners, and contractors.
He will also maintain
his close link to the
operations of the
University with regard
to planning capital proj-
€cts, purchasing equipment, and reviewing
capital budget requests.

 

Parsons will supervise Washington and
Lee’s $10 million Fraternity Renaissance
Program, scheduled to begin in 1990. He will
serve as manager for the program, represent-
ing W&L in negotiations with architects,
construction firms, fraternity house corpora-
tions, and the city of Lexington. Parsons will
also serve as staff support for the program’s
steering committee.

‘‘Frank brings a vast knowledge of
Washington and Lee, its people, and its
traditions to this new position,’’ said
Lawrence W. Broomall, University treasurer.
**As an alumnus, as a fraternity member,
and as a longtime resident of Lexington,
Frank has an appreciation of what frater-
nities once were at W&L and what they can
achieve under our renaissance program. We

are fortunate to have his knowledge and ex-
pertise.”’

A native of Clifton Forge, Va., Parsons
joined the W&L administration in 1954 as
director of publicity. Since that time he has
held a number of different positions at the
University. He was named an assistant to
President Fred C. Cole in 1960 and served
in the same capacity for President Robert
E.R. Huntley and President John D. Wilson.

**Over the last 35 years I have been ask-
ed to take on a variety of assignments for
the University,’’ said Parsons. ‘‘I can think
of no greater challenge or opportunity to
achieve a lasting impact on the University
and the community than the Fraternity
Renaissance Program.’’

W&L 15

 

W&L chosen to participate
in Keck Geology Consortium

Washington and Lee is one of 12 liberal
arts colleges selected to participate in the
W.M. Keck Foundation Faculty/Student
Geology Consortium.

The program is funded by the W.M.
Keck Foundation of Los Angeles and is
designed to support geological research of
undergraduate students and faculty and to
bring together students and faculty from dif-
ferent institutions to share their common
interests.

In addition to Washington and Lee, par-
ticipating institutions are Amherst College,
Beloit College, Carleton College, Colorado
College, Franklin and Marshall College,
Pomona College, Smith College, Trinity
University, Whitman College, Williams Col-
lege, and the College of Wooster.

The consortium will support five dif-
ferent projects during the summers of 1989
and 1990. Each project will last about six
weeks and will be jointly directed by faculty
members from several of the participating
schools. Students from all 12 colleges will be
eligible to participate as field researchers on
the projects and will complete their research
when they return to their respective cam-
puses. In the spring, the students and facul-
ty will assemble to present papers and discuss
their research projects.

Subjects to be studied in the summer of
1989 include the ecology of recent and an-
cient shores in Gaspe, Canada; the study of
a fault zone in Minnesota; ancient reefs in
Spain; earthquake seismology in Texas; and
metamorphism in Chester Dome in
Vermont.

The W.M. Keck Foundation was
established in 1954 by the late William M.
Keck, founder of the Superior Oil Co., who
also created in his will the W.M. Keck Trust
for the benefit of the foundation. The foun-
dation’s primary focus is grants to colleges
and universities throughout the United
States, with particular emphasis in the fields
of earth sciences, engineering, and medical
research. It also provides limited support to
programs serving Southern California in the
areas of community services, health care,
precollegiate education, and the arts.

Programs focus on
student health issues

The effects of drug use and the preven-
tion of acquaintance rape were the topics of
two series of programs sponsored in the
winter by the Washington and Lee Health
Education Committee.

Drug Awareness Week, which was held
in January, featured two keynote lectures by

16 W&L

 

 

 

Looking Backward

Excerpts from President Wilson’s Founders’ Day Address

. . .When we are asked for an accounting of the state of the University we cannot
be content to speak only about the physical and the material side. We must also ask
about our spiritual side. The intellectual development of students and faculty seems
unmistakably well served here, but several questions remain. Are we as good today
as we used to be in developing character, in shaping positive moral values, in en-
couraging the growth of autonomous, responsible, sensitive moral agents?

And how are we doing in meeting the obligation we have to create an environ-
ment in which serious people can learn from each other and develop mutual respect
in the process?

There are innumerable favorable signs, of course. But there are some bad signs
too, and I think we sometimes need to talk about these.

I first came to think about this more somber side of our current condition a few
weeks ago, when the Roanoke Times and World-News published a retrospective view
of how Roanoke attacked the problem of segregation in 1963. A group of black and
white leaders came together to commit themselves to the idea that Roanoke would
not be the victim of violence and bad feeling but would reach out to make segrega-
tion a thing of the past.

That story went on to recount the elements that are so familiar they hardly need
to be cited—the problem of integrating restaurants, waiting rooms, theatres and
cinemas, restrooms, water fountains, transportation, and then more fundamentally
schools, housing, and jobs.

But there was one element that was entirely new to me, and it absolutely bowled
me over. It was the revelation that it was impossible in 1963 for a black family to
get an obituary notice printed in the Roanoke Times for someone who had died.
Familiar as we all are with the problems of discrimination, I never dreamt that things
had gotten quite that far. For I think this particular policy said to black citizens,
your life has had no meaning and therefore your death is of no interest to this com-
munity. Even after lunch counters and swimming pools, that obituary prohibition
struck me as a more monumental and more terrible sign of the state of things than
anything else I could cite.

Thank God we’re talking about something that happened in the past, and that
people of good will got together to solve these problems. But it made me marvel.
How could we have been so blind? How could all of us have been unaware of how
things were, so that even 25 years later I had no memory of such a thing happening?
How could we have put up with that sort of unnecessary cruelty?

And thus it made me think about the year 2014. I began to wonder, what if the
Ring-tum Phi were to look back from that future time, back to 1989? What would
they as reporters find striking about our community life? What might the Washington

 

 

 

——

 

and Lee students and faculty of the year 2014 note with incredulity about our own
behavior and attitudes? In short, in what respect do we have the same kinds of cultural
blinders that citizens of Roanoke had 25 years ago, and in what ways do we tolerate
things by keeping their real nature far from our consciousness?

They might wonder, first of all, how we overlooked for so long the initiation brand-
ings of the Sigma Society. I have heard about the infection which is invariably caus-
ed by this minor-league barbarism, the days of pain that a group of friends visit upon
another in the interests of initiation. I think they might wonder how we were so blind
to that little exercise.

| expect they would come to wonder, too, about the persistent, boring destruc-
tion of property. I thought such things were behind us, until I took a walk Sunday
morning and saw 13 windows broken out of the public corridor in Graham-Lees Dor-
mitory. I hope the students and faculty of that time will have a different attitude
about the careless and casual wasting of the world’s goods which that little act of
destruction represents. Never mind the facile assumption that all is immediately made
well by simply paying the cost of replacing the pane. And never mind the crestfallen
faces of the men and women who have to clean up and make the repairs on Monday
morning.

I think those looking back would wonder about the alcohol games that are still
conducted in some of our fraternity houses—conducted sometimes to the point of
serious illness and hospitalization, despite the fact that our own IFC rules and the
laws of the land prohibit hazing.

And finally I know they would be dismayed to see that even after four years of
coeducation a persistent core of shallow male chauvinism exists, which has been
translated at least in some instances beyond the tasteless T-shirt slogans we got used
to a year or sO ago into a more vocal and more serious sexual aggressiveness, which
in a few cases borders on unlawful conduct. About the T-shirt slogans we can only
wonder at the presumption and the arrogance of those who articulate a claim to a
more-than-equal right to a place here, and the awful failure of the imagination to
know how hurtful to a classmate is some puerile reference to female inferiority. About
the unlawful conduct we can only be deeply remorseful, deeply pained that it could
happen here.

Overarching this depressing litany is a sense that some of us in 1989 remain blissful-
ly unaware that the world has irrevocably changed. The drug culture is sinking fur-
ther and further into the least educated sections of the society (the poor, the very
young, the desperate); women have been fully admitted to all the precincts of pro-
ductive life; and racial stereotypes are no longer credited anywhere and are no longer
tolerated in any shape or form.

I am perfectly well aware that I will be criticized for talking in these darker tones
on a happy occasion like Founders’ Day. But I think it is time that we all paid each
other the respect of our candor. A day that is devoted to the celebration of our heroes
and founders and of the values and traditions that they have brought to us is a not
entirely inappropriate time to reexamine those traditions. We have inherited the highest
ideals from the past—honor, trustworthiness, duty, civility, magnanimity, and a com-
passionate caring for others. These are some of the values we derive from General
Lee’s personal code, the code of a gentleman, and we profess to make them our own.

But we can’t just profess our fidelity to these values once a year. We can’t treat
Lee’s code of the gentleman as a beautiful Victorian artifact, attractive but irrele-
vant to our own lives. The code must be translated into living contemporary terms.
We must work together to create outlets for our best instincts, our most refined sen-
sibilities, our most caring respect for each other.

President Bush has called upon us to help create a kinder and gentler nation. It
may be the most important theme in his administration, and it may carry the pro-
mise of the most significant legacy he and his colleagues will leave us. Let us, whatever
happens elsewhere, take it seriously by rededicating ourselves here at home.

Let us start with our outstanding student leaders, you who are about to be tap-
ped into ODK. You know where our weaknesses are, where wrong is being fostered.
And you know how to fix the wrong things, without intervention from me or the
deans or the faculty. Move straight out and fix them. Burnish to the highest gloss
our proud claims to honor and decency and integrity. By doing so you will truly con-
tribute to the University’s further strengthening, truly enhance our hard-earned reputa-
tion for personal integrity at the highest level, truly pay tribute to our illustrious
founders and satisfy in full the high expectations of ODK.

 

 

 

Nelson M. Butters, chief of psychology ser-
vice at the San Diego Veterans Administra-
tion Medical Center and professor of
psychiatry at the University of California
School of Medicine at San Diego. Butters has
conducted extensive research on the chronic
effects of ethanol on memory and other
cognitive functions.

The week’s events also included a panel
program on drug information and education.
Participating in the panel were U.S. Circuit
Court Judge George E. Honts, ’62, ’68L, a
criminal investigator, a drug counselor, and
a recovering student.

In February the Health Education Com-
mittee turned its attention to the issue of ac-
quaintance rape. Students, faculty, and ad-
ministrators attended a _ national
teleconference on the subject which was
broadcast live at the University, and

members of the freshman class participated
in special programs consisting of a videotape
and panel discussion.

 

_ ae, oy
iS 4
' BS

et St. yas Ma
ee ee -

Lovida H. Coleman Jr.

M. L. King Day Observed

‘*Words and Music in Celebration of the
Life of Martin Luther King Jr.’’ was the
theme of an observance of King’s birthday
sponsored by W&L’s Minority Student
Association.

Lovida H. Coleman Jr., a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Tuttle and
Taylor, was the keynote speaker for the
event, which was held Jan. 16 at the First
Baptist Church in Lexington. Coleman was
special assistant to Attorney General Ben-
jamin Civiletti during the Carter Administra-
tion and later served as deputy independent
counsel in the investigation of Reagan aide
Lyn Nofziger and Attorney General Edwin
Meese.

Also participating in the program were
members of the Minority Student Associa-
tion, the Black Law Students Association,
and the Glee Club.

W&L 17

 

W&L accepting applications
for director of Annual Fund

Washington and Lee is seeking applica-
tions for the position of director of the An-
nual Fund.

The position, which becomes available
July 1, assumes responsibility for designing
and executing successful strategies for ob-
taining unrestricted gifts from alumni,
parents, and friends in support of the
University’s current operating budget. Can-
didates must have at least a bachelor’s degree
and possess a commitment to private,
academically selective higher education.

At least three to five years of experience
in fund raising for a college or private
preparatory school are preferred. Candidates
must be willing to travel and must possess
strong interpersonal, organizational, and
written and oral communications skills.

Letters of application should be address-
ed to:

Lex O. McMillan

Director of Development
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

Commerce School taps
Board of Advisers

Nine alumni have been appointed to serve
on a newly established Board of Advisers to
Washington and Lee’s School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

They are Robert G. Brookby, ’72, senior
vice president of Wachovia Bank in Winston-
Salem, N.C.; Earle Palmer Brown, ’44,
chairman of E. P. Brown Cos. in Bethesda,
Md.; John E. Chapoton, ’58, managing
partner of Vinson & Elkins, Attorneys-at-
Law, in Washington, D.C.; J. Donald
Childress, ’70, managing partner of
Childress Kline Properties Inc. in Atlanta,
Ga.; William R. Johnston, ’61, chairman
and chief executive officer of Agora
Securities Inc. in New York City; Thomas
P. Rideout, ’63, senior vice president of First
Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C.; Robert H.
Seal, ’44, chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of National Bank Com-
merce in San Antonio, Texas; and Martin E.
Stein Jr., ’74, president and chief executive
officer of the Regency Group Inc. in
Jacksonville, Fla.

Thomas H. Broadus Jr., ’59, vice presi-
dent and director of T. Rowe Price
Associates Inc. in Baltimore, Md., is the
group’s chairman.

After having an initial organizational

18 W&L

Edwin A. Morris gift benefits
scholarships, economics program

Edwin A. Morris, ’26, of Greensboro,
N.C., has made a gift of $250,000 to
Washington and Lee.

A portion of the gift will be used to
establish an honor scholarship, endowed at
$150,000, for worthy and achieving students
of fine character from North Carolina. The
remaining $100,000 will create an endow-
ment in Morris’ name to enrich the
economics program in the areas of guest lec-
turers, library acquisitions, travel, and the
overall enhancement of the teaching
program.

‘*Mr. Morris’ generous gift will enable
the economics department to enrich the cur-
riculum, strengthen faculty development ef-
forts, and expand research activity,’’ said
Larry Peppers, dean of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics. ‘‘We are in-
debted to Mr. Morris for his support of our
academic program.”’

During his years at W&L, Morris was
named to Omicron Delta Kappa, the
honorary leadership fraternity, and was a
member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He
received an honorary doctor of laws degree
from the University in 1980. He also attend-

\

“er

7

 

oe “
af By f
ik? i Y %

ed the Harvard Business School.

He is a member of the planning and
development council of the W&L Board of
Trustees and is former chairman of the
University’s estate planning council. His gift
of $250,000 brings him to a total of more
than $1 million in outright and estate planned
gifts to W&L.

Morris is the former president, chief ex-
ecutive officer, and chairman of the board
of Blue Bell Inc., which was the world’s se-
cond largest apparel manufacturer. He is
past president of the American Apparel
Manufacturers Association and the National
Association of Manufacturers and has serv-
ed as trustee of the American Institute for
Economic Research and the Advisory Board
of Western Goals and as a member of the
board of directors of the National Taxpayers
Union in Washington, D.C.

He has also been director of Junior
Achievement, the Chamber of Commerce of
Greensboro, the United States Industrial
Council, the North Carolina Citizens
Association, the North Carolina 4-H
Development Fund, and the Business-
Industry Political Action Committee. He is
a recipient of the ‘‘Distinguished Citizen of
the Year Award,’’ given by the North
Carolina District East Civitans.

}

The members of the new Board of Advisers to the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics
are: (front row, from left) Robert G. Brookby, Thomas P. Rideout, Earle Palmer Brown; (sec-
ond row) William R. Johnston, Dean Larry C. Peppers, Thomas H. Broadus Jr., J. Donald

Childress, and Robert H. Seal.

gathering last May, the board held its first
formal meeting at Washington and Lee in
November. At that time, the members met
with students, faculty, and administrators
and discussed both current activities in the
School and resources needed to enhance pro-
grams in the future.

‘*It is important for the ongoing success
of the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics that alumni both understand and be
actively involved with the academic
challenges facing Washington and Lee,”’ ex-
plained Larry C. Peppers, dean of the

School. ‘‘The Board of Advisers has been
pivotal in helping us to link more carefully
the long-range plans of the School with the
educational traditions and foundations of the
past.

‘*As we attempt to embrace new activities
such as an executive-in-residence program
and an expanded core of international
courses in economics, commerce, and
politics, we will rely heavily on Board
members to provide advice based on their
own experience in the governmental and
business arenas.”’

 

 

Law students provide
services to Lexington disabled

Several Washington and Lee law students
have formed a group to assist and advise
disabled Lexington citizens on a wide varie-
ty of legal topics.

The W&L Law Student Project for the
Disabled (LSPD) was established to help
disabled citizens and their families gain ac-
cess to available services and opportunities.
The group has begun its endeavor by focus-
ing on the special education of disabled
students.

‘‘The law requires that various educa-
tional and other services and opportunities
be made available to disabled citizens,’’ ex-
plains law professor David Millon, LSPD’s
faculty adviser. ‘‘In our area several different
agencies are responsible for administering
these programs. But despite the best efforts
of the dedicated professionals who manage
these programs, citizens are not always aware
of what is available to them. And the pro-
cedures for gaining the full benefits of these
programs can be bewildering and, at times,
intimidating. LSPD believes it can help.”’

LSPD serves as a resource to local
citizens who have a disability—mental or
physical—and to their families. The group’s
members help identify legal issues, provide
legal research, assist in formulating ap-
propriate courses of action, and lend en-
couragement and other forms of support.

Of particular help to local residents is the
law students’ assistance in developing an In-
dividualized Education Program, or IEP.
Under state and federal law, every mentally
retarded or otherwise disabled student is en-
titled to a special education program design-
ed specifically to meet his or her needs. The
student’s parents, together with school per-
sonnel, must formulate an IEP—a specific
list of educational goals and objectives. Law
student volunteers are available to help
develop an IEP.

Participating in the law school program
are third-year students Karin Garvin,
Carolyn Perry, and Robin Winn; second-
year students Betsy Hocker, Harriette
Shivers, Bob Ginther, and Kathy Foster; and
first-year Mason Preston.

Prospect ID program launched

Washington and Lee has begun an am-
bitious nationwide project to identify alum-
ni and friends of the University who are most
likely to support its future needs and goals.

Through this project, alumni from coast
tO coast will be invited to help Washington
and Lee expand its list of prospective donors
and volunteers.

The program began in January and will

continue through March 1990. During that
period, special alumni gatherings will be held
in 59 cities. These meetings will consist
primarily of silent work sessions in which
participants will review class and regional
lists of alumni and parents of current
students.

The project is modeled after one
developed by Stanford University and which
has been successfully used at Williams Col-
lege and the College of William and Mary.
The University will hold all information
gathered in these sessions in strict confidence.

‘*During these sessions we are not ask-
ing for gifts, nor are we asking people to
solicit others,’’ explains Anne Farrar,
associate director of development at W&L
who is overseeing the project. ‘‘Our purpose
instead is to inform our alumni about
Washington and Lee’s aspirations and to
learn more about the University’s potential
support.”’

This nationwide project is occurring at
the same time that Washington and Lee is
engaged in a self-study and planning process
that will chart the University’s course
through the rest of the century. Out of this
planning process will emerge the financial
needs and goals that will define the next
capital campaign.

Parkins named
alumni staff associate

Elizabeth J. Parkins, a Washington and
Lee senior, has been named alumni staff
associate at W&L for the 1989-90 academic
year. She will assume the post July 1.

She succeeds Christopher J. Deighan,
who has held the position since July 1987.

As alumni staff associate, Parkins will
work closely with Kathekon (the student
alumni association), contribute to the A/um-
ni Magazine, visit alumni chapters, assist in
the planning and direction of reunion
weekends, and assist in the general operation
and supervision of the Alumni Office.

While a student at Washington and Lee,
Parkins has been executive editor and staff
reporter of the Ring-tum Phi, a member of
the yearbook staff and the Publications
Board, and a peer counselor. She has also
been active with the campus radio and televi-
sion stations and was a member of the
women’s soccer and lacrosse teams.

‘‘Betsy’s substantial writing and
videotape production experience is perfect
for some special needs we have in the com-
ing year,’’ said Richard B. Sessoms, direc-
tor of alumni programs at W&L. ‘‘We look
forward to the special contributions she will
make as the first undergraduate alumna
working in the Alumni Office.’’

Washington and Lee included
in book on college trivia

How many people know that the
Washington and Lee Swing is the most often
counterfeited of all college fight songs, with
12 institutions of higher learning claiming the
tune as their own?

Or that George Washington’s gift of
$50,000 worth of James River canal stock to
Liberty Hall Academy—which later became
Washington and Lee—was the largest gift
made to a college before 1800?

Those facts and many more are includ-
ed in Alma Mater: Unusual Stories and
Little-Known Facts from America’s College
Campuses, published by Peterson’s Guides
of Princeton, N.J. Author Don Betterton,
director of financial aid at Princeton Univer-
sity, provides a look at the variety of college
life in America, with unusual angles on every
aspect of higher education—historical, in-
tellectual, extracurricular, and financial.

Washington and Lee is mentioned eight
times in Alma Mater. In addition to the
aforementioned categories, W&L is includ-
ed in lists of colleges named for George
Washington, the oldest colleges in the nation,
and liberal arts colleges and universities with
the largest number of executives as
graduates. Washington and Lee is also cited
in the section on college architecture.

In a portion titled ‘‘Speaking Can Be
Hazardous to Your Health,’’ which lists in-
dividuals who died while delivering a speech
on a college campus, A/ma Mater recounts
the last words of former vice president Alben
Barkley, who spoke at the 1956 W&L Mock
Democratic Convention.

**T would rather be a servant in the house
of the Lord than to sit in the seats of the
mighty,’’ Barkley said before collapsing on
the stage in Doremus Gymnasium.

  

Hosea
Williams

Civil rights leader visits campus

Atlanta city councilman and civil rights
leader Hosea Williams appeared in Lee
Chapel in February to speak about race rela-
tions and the economic and political ine-
quities facing black Americans.

His visit was sponsored by Contact, the
student-funded speakers’ organization, and
the Minority Student Association. The event
was held in conjunction with W&L’s obser-
vance of Black History Month.

W&L 19

 

David Badertscher
joins library staff

David A. Badertscher has been named
head of technical services and assistant pro-
fessor of library science at Washington and
Lee’s University Library. He assumed the
position in January.

Prior to joining
W&L’s library staff,
Badertscher was acting
head of serials at the
University of Virginia,
where he had also work-
ed as serials conversion
coordinator/cataloger.
He was technical ser-
vices librarian at the

: Virginia Military In-
stitute from July 1983 to October 1986.

He has also held positions in libraries at
Jacksonville State University, the Georgia In-
stitute of Technology, the Judicial Council
of Georgia, and Vanderbilt University. He

   

is a graduate of West Georgia College and
Emory University and is a member of the
American and Virginia Library Associations.

‘*T am extremely pleased to have David
join the library staff,’’ said Barbara Brown,
University librarian, in announcing the ap-
pointment. ‘‘He will play an important role
in the eventual automation of some of the
library’s operations.’’

Library acquires manuscripts

The Washington and Lee University
Library recently received three gifts of
manuscripts to add to its special collections.

Anna Brooke Allan of Chapel Hill, N.C.,
donated to the library three letters written
to members of her family by three children
of Robert E. Lee—George Washington
Custis Lee, Mildred Lee, and Robert E. Lee
Jr. Allan’s grandfather, Lt. Col. William
Allan, was professor of applied math at
Washington and Lee from 1866 to 1873, dur-

ing R. E. Lee’s tenure as president.

Three letters of G. W. Custis Lee, who
succeeded his father as president of W&L,
were purchased for the library through the
generosity of William R. Hill Jr. of Rich-
mond. The letters were written to Col.
Charles Marshall, R. E. Lee’s wartime aide.

The third group of manuscripts recently
given to the library are the Baxter family
papers, which were donated by the Misses
Mary and Martha Coulling of Williamsburg,
Va., aunts of W&L English Professor Sidney
M. Baxter Coulling. The collection of ap-
proximately 300 items includes family cor-
respondence spanning three generations. Of
special interest are letters and papers of the
Rev. George A. Baxter, president of
Washington College from 1799 to 1829, and
his wife, Anne C. Fleming Baxter. The col-
lection complements Baxter and Fleming
papers that are already in the University’s
archives.

 

Four times a year I receive the alumni

father had before me.

I follow with interest articles about

campus life, but have mixed feelings when

pediatrics at a major hospital in New York.

the Month.

contributions to the Annual Fund. Thus

of my teachers, a professor of English,

 

Bruce Rider is a free-lance writer living in

to the Grapevine Sun, where this column first
appeared. It is reprinted with permission.

 

magazine from Washington and Lee
University, where I attended college as my

I come to the ‘‘Class Notes’’ section listing
accomplishments of outstanding grad-
uates. That student you last saw chugging
down a pitcher of beer is now a judge in
Alabama; the young man who slept
through every class is now chief of

An alumnus from Dallas, class of 63, won
the Nobel Prize for Medicine a year or two
ago. And here I was, trying for Yard of

Obviously, the articles about campus
activities and successes of graduates accent
the positive, enhancing the reputation of
the University and encouraging regular

I was surprised to read of the death of one

who began his teaching career the same
year I began college, and who was a strong

Grapevine, Texas. He is a regular contributor

A Tribute and Thanks to a Teacher

by Bruce Rider, ’66

believer in my ability to express ideas in
writing.

He taught a seminar for 10 or 12
students in creative writing. It was magnifi-
cent. Several times during the year he turn-
ed the class over to a visiting author, who
would spend three or four hours with us,
talking about his work and answering
questions about our own. Robert Penn
Warren and Reynolds Price were two
writers who came to class, giving us glimp-
ses of the pain and the majesty of creative
work.

Reporting the death of this 55-year-old
professor was not out of the ordinary for
the Alumni Magazine, but reporting the
details of his passing was. He died from
AIDS, his strong voice turned to whisper-
ing in his last two years.

The magazine reports: ‘‘Those who
were with him then tell of the sweetness of
his death. Hope, the source of his speech,
never left him; the disease never took
that.’’

He is the first person I know well who
has died of the AIDS virus. I am troubled
now not at the manner of his death but by
the fact that I did not know he was dying.
I wish I had known, so that I could have
told him how positive and special an
educator he was, how he encouraged us in
our youthful struggles to express ourselves
in words—we had not yet the experience

or the wisdom to write about the world in
any substantial way.

He brought in those literary giants to
show that they were real, struggled as we
did to find the right word and phrase to
tell the story, had the same compulsion to
say something important, to effect change
and create beauty through the use of words
and images.

I would want him to know that he
could have told me of his illness, that I
would not back away from the reality of
its cause and course.

There is much we don’t know or
understand about other people’s lives, and
such realities as AIDS bring fear and even
judgment. But this is true: This professor
expanded our ability to think and com-
municate, brought every resource to bear
so that we would learn all of which we were
able.

We owe much to such teachers, to men
and women who lead us to excellence, who
believe in us so that we can grow to believe
in ourselves, whose affirmations are pre-
sent with us in dark times when creativity
and joy and hope elude our grasp.

Thank you, great teacher, for guiding
me to today. And thank you, Alumni
Magazine staff, for printing the truth
about this person’s life and death.

He taught us that was the way we
should always write.

 

20 W&L

 

 

-

ie
*“ Se

a ~
i US
ee

Py Bs

 

Coaches John Roach (left) and Bobby Matthews watch anxiously as their Sonics battle it out

with another area youth-league team.

Pacing the Sidelines
By Mike Shady, ’89

Precious seconds are ticking off the
Warner Center clock, and Andy Pleva holds
the basketball at the top of the key. He
glances tensely at his teammates, who are
darting about wildly and offering encourage-
ment. His mouth set with determination,
Pleva squares up to the basket and fires a

 

Mike Shady, a journalism major from Berwyn,
Pa., is sports editor of the Ring-tum Phi.

high, arching rainbow. Swish. Three points.
The crowd explodes.

No, Pleva did not just win the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference title for
Washington and Lee. In fact, he doesn’t even
play for the Generals. Andy Pleva is the
5-foot, 12-year-old shooting guard for the
Supersonics, a team of the Rockbridge Area
Recreational Organization (RARO) youth
basketball league. The Supersonics are

matched against The Swish, another youth
squad, in an exhibition contest during
halftime of a W&L/Emory and Henry
basketball game.

Pleva receives another pass at his spot—
the top of the key. ‘‘Shoot it!’’ urges the
crowd. Pleva cradles the ball at his hip and
then in one motion tosses it toward the goal.
Good again! Once more, he gets the ball
behind the three-point stripe, shoots, and hits
his third in a row. The stands erupt, and
Washington and Lee students cheer wildly
for the young team.

A little league basketball game can be a
chaotic event, and this exhibition is no ex-
ception. Balls are dropped; passes are miss-
ed; shots fall short of the basket on more
than one occasion. Yet these inexperienced
players do exhibit some of the basic fun-
damentals of basketball: man-to-man
defense, dribbling, and passing.

It’s possible this particular game is an
anomaly, an adrenaline-induced reaction to
the crowd’s noise and applause. More like-
ly, however, the players’ success is largely
due to excellent instruction by the coaches.
And in this case, those coaches just happen
to be W&L undergraduates.

**I’ve always wanted to coach,”’ explains
senior Bobby Matthews, one of the four
coaches of the Sonics. ‘‘So we just jumped
right in there. I think it’s more fun for me
than for the kids. It’s been great.”’

Matthews first became involved with the
area basketball program in the fall of 1987,
when he learned that one of the league’s
teams needed a coach. He promptly enlisted
the help of classmates Jeff Burton, John
Roach, and Sid Udicious, and the four em-
barked on their coaching careers.

Last October, Matthews again inquired
about assisting with youth basketball. ‘‘They
called me expressing an interest,’’ recalls
Doug Chase, ’74, executive director of
RARO. ‘‘And I kiddingly said, ‘Why don’t
you get more people like you all?’ And they
did.”’

The response from other students, Bur-
ton says, was incredible. ‘‘All we had to do
was ask once. We almost had too many peo-
ple who wanted to be coaches.’’

During the past season, 16 Washington
and Lee undergraduates served as RARO
coaches. Juniors Wes Goings, Jack Pringle,
and Chris Giblin are the coaches for the
Lakers, while sophomores Matt Malloy,
Mark Monahan, and Chuck Broll work with
The Heat. Sophomore Rob Brown and
senior Brent Bean lead The Sting; freshman
Marc Short and sophomore John Laney
direct The Swish; and juniors Lynwood
Mallard and Matt Tully are in charge of the
Bulls.

Allin all, only one of the seven teams in

W&L 21

 

the sixth- through eighth-grade division of
RARO is not led by W&L students. In addi-
tion to teaching basketball skills to approx-
imately 60 to 65 youngsters each week, the
novice coaches also organize practice and
game schedules.

‘*They have done a phenomenal job,”’
Chase says. ‘‘I’m particularly impressed with
the discipline they have shown in working
with the kids.

‘*They have been a real godsend to this
basketball organization. They have done a
tremendous job of teaching fundamentals.
They also demonstrate outstanding examples
of winning with grace and losing with
grace.”’

One reason the coaches have been so suc-
cessful, Chase believes, is that ‘‘the kids
perceive them as adults. But the kids don’t
react to them as they would to regular

The Bookshelf

Organizational Ecology
By John H. Freeman, ’66
(Harvard University Press)

Unlike most research on organizations,
which studies them individually and at a fix-
ed point of time, Organizational Ecology
looks at the dynamics of organization
populations.

Freeman and his co-author, Michael T.
Hannan, create an ecology of organizations
that examines competition for resources and
that seeks to explain the diversity of
organizational forms.

Freeman and his colleague Hannan
believe that organizations react slowly to
changes in the environment and, as a conse-
quence, they continually fail, only to be
replaced by new ones. To test their theories,
the authors explore population statistics of
labor unions, newspapers, semiconductor
manufacturers, and restaurants. Such a
method opens the way for study of other
areas, including race and ethnic relations,
social stratification, and political sociology.

Freeman is a professor at Cornell Univer-
sity’s Graduate School of Management.
Hannan is Henry Scarborough professor of
social sciences at Cornell.

Research Methods in Psychology
By David G. Elmes, Professor of

Psychology, and Henry L. Roediger III,

69
(West Publishing Co.)

This third edition, which was co-authored
with Barry H. Kantowitz, a research
psychologist at Battelle Memorial Institute,
details the statistical and analytical pro-
22 W&L

adults.”’

Prior coaching experience is not a prere-
quisite for students who participate in
RARO. Indeed, Matthews believes that on-
ly a basic understanding of the game is re-
quired. What is essential, however, is a will-
ingness and eagerness to work with the young
players.

‘*Be enthusiastic—that’s most impor-
tant,’’ he claims. ‘‘You need to know a lit-
tle about the game, but it’s only important
to know the game so you can teach the kids
some good habits.’’

A significant time commitment is also re-
quired of the undergraduates. Each week the
teams practice for two hours at a stretch and
play one or two games.

But they are hours well spent, the coaches
believe. ‘‘I think W&L has to get involved
in the community,’’ says Matthews. ‘‘There’s

so much to this community. I think we
shouldn’t just come here for nine months out
of the year without putting a little something
back into it.’’

Matthews and his fellow coaches firmly
believe that their involvement with the youth
basketball league has helped improve the
relationship between W&L students and Lex-
ington townspeople. RARO’s executive
director agrees.

‘**At the beginning some parents express-
ed concern about W&L students coaching
their children’s teams,’’ Chase says. ‘‘But
I’ve received literally dozens of compliments
from the parents of players.”’

Now, as the basketball season winds to
a close, there is talk of students coaching lit-
tle league baseball in the future.

**T hope it keeps going,’’ Burton says. .
‘*It’s great for the town—and for us.”’

 

 

cedures that provide the bases for valid and
reliable psychological research.

The second edition of the intermediate-
level text was adopted by more than 250 col-
leges and universities in the United States,
Canada, and Europe.

A graduate of the University of Virginia,
Elmes joined the Washington and Lee facul-
ty in 1967. Roediger is professor of
psychology at Rice University.

Elmes, Roediger, and Kantowitz are also
the authors of Experimental Psychology, the
third edition of which was published in 1988
by West Publishing Co.

West of Eden
By Frank Rose, ’71
(Viking Penguin Inc.)

This is the story of Apple Computer, the
legendary business begun in a garage by two
young Californians. Today, the name ‘‘Ap-
ple,’’ the Biblical symbol of knowledge, has
become synonymous with personal com-
puting. But in the intervening years, the com-
pany has grown into a Fortune 500 corpora-
tion, its founders driven out and replaced by
East Coast executives.

In West of Eden, Frank Rose describes
how that evolution occurred. His narrative
is based on interviews with numerous in-
dividuals associated at one time or another
with Apple. He gives a behind-the-scenes
look at the intrigue, secret meetings, and
power struggles of an industry in turmoil.

For the past 15 years Frank Rose has
worked as a journalist in New York City,
writing for such publications as Esquire,
Vanity Fair, The New York Times Magazine,
and The Nation. His previous book, Into the
Heart of the Mind, describes the work of
artificial-intelligence researchers at Berkeley.

Service Inutile: A Study of the Tragic

in the Theatre of Henry de Montherlant
By R. Joseph Golsan, ’74
(Romance Monographs Inc.)

This is a study of Henry de Montherlant,
a French writer who died in 1972.

Golsan examines a number of Mon-
therlant’s works, including La Reine Morte,
Port-Royal, and Le Cardinal d’Espagne.

Golsan teaches French at Texas A&M
University.

 

The Generals 4 Report Basketball Posts 20-7 Mark

by Mike Stachura, ’86

| t was, to be fair, an outstanding season Wa Y4
for the Washington and Lee basketball io
Generals. A preseason pick to finish "04
fifth in the Old Dominion Athletic Con- = a0)

yy |

ference, the young W&L squad (a team com- | N

OO
WR

posed of one senior and 16 sophomores and
freshmen) led by veteran mentor Verne Can-
field played near-flawless basketball for
much of the 1988-89 season. Two weeks in-
to February, the upstart Generals had com-
piled a 19-3 record, locked up the regular-
season ODAC title, earned a Top 20 national
ranking, and appeared on their way to
W&L’s first NCAA berth since 1980.

The final two weeks proved disastrous,
however, as the Generals dropped four of
their final five games, including an 87-66 loss
to Hampden-Sydney in the championship
game of the ODAC Tournament for the
worst loss of the season. The slump left the
Generals out of postseason play, and it tar-
nished what had been a truly remarkable
season.

W&L, which finished with a 20-7 record,
sustained winning streaks of nine and seven
games during the year and put together the
school’s best record since 1982’s 21-7 mark.
Although the Generals thrived on a team ef-
fort that often included a 10-man rotation,
6-6 sophomore forward Chris Jacobs emerg-
ed as the team’s dominant player. Jacobs,
a Richmond native, was honored as the
ODAC Player of the Year and was named
to the All-ODAC First Team, All-ODAC
Tournament Team, and All-South Atlantic
Region First Team after leading the Generals
in scoring 15 times during the season.

Supporting Jacobs were classmates Ed
Hart, who adjusted to a new position by
becoming the team’s second-leading scorer
and rebounder, and Michael Holton, whose
long-range bombs propelled W&L to early-
season success. Holton was named to the All-
ODAC Second Team and the All-South
Atlantic Region Second Team. Guiding the
young squad through much of its success was
the team’s lone senior and its captain, Lee
Brading, who finished up by averaging 11.4
Points, 4.0 rebounds, and 3.6 assists per 4
game for the year.

It was an exciting season from beginning
to end, and nothing was more exciting than

 

Chris Jacobs (center) and Pat Gallavan (right) reach for the basket in the Generals’ 81-75 home
victory against Emory and Henry.

W&L 23

 

Senior Rich Redfoot demonstrates the form that helped him advance to the semifinal round of the NCAA Division III National Championships
and earn All-America status.

W&L home games. More than in recent
years, W&L fans made an impact at home
games, and the young Generals responded
to the support. W&L turned in a perfect 14-0
record at the Warner Center, the best home
record in the history of the school.

After stumbling with two early losses, the
Generals ran off a nine-game winning streak,
including victories over defending ODAC
champion Bridgewater and preseason ODAC
favorite Hampden-Sydney. After the
Christmas holiday, W&L won 14 of 15
games, pummeling archrival Roanoke,
knocking off top-rated opponents Guilford
and Emory, and winning key road games at
Emory and Henry and Bridgewater. But hid-
den among the success was a disappointing
93-79 loss at Hampden-Sydney, a premoni-
tion of what was to come the next time the
teams met.

The home season ended on a fitting note,
however, with Canfield’s 400th career
coaching victory in an 84-79 win over
Averett. The Generals then went on to win
at Roanoke College for the first time in 40
years.

For his efforts, Canfield received ODAC
Coach of the Year honors for the third time
in his tenure at W&L. The 20-win campaign
was the fifth under Canfield, whose career
record is now 402-244.

As for the future, prospects look even
brighter for the Generals. While W&L will

24 W&L

miss the services of senior captain Brading,
the rest of the Generals’ 10-man rotation is
expected to return.

Wrestling

Way back at the beginning of the season,
W&L wrestling coach Gary Franke wasn’t
sure what to expect from his 1988-89 team.
By season’s end, however, he would be cer-
tain of one thing: He had quite a wrestler in
senior Rich Redfoot.

Redfoot, who had sat out his junior year
but decided to return to the sport in his final
year at W&L, turned in a magnificent senior
season, piling up an 18-1-1 regular-season
record. After advancing to the semifinal
round of the NCAA Division III National
Championships, he became the first wrestler
in W&L’s history to earn Division III All-
America status.

Redfoot’s year was built on one success
after another. The senior lost once during the
regular season—to an NCAA Division III
All-American. He captured the individual ti-
tle at 190 pounds at the W&L Invitational
and turned in a remarkable performance at
the W&L Quadrangular, winning a bout
wrestling at heavyweight despite the fact that
his opponent outweighed him by more than
25 pounds.

At the Virginia Collegiate Wrestling
Championships, Redfoot won the 190-pound
weight class by defeating a two-time NCAA

Division II All-American and was named the
meet’s Most Outstanding Wrestler.

Redfoot came within a whisker of win-
ning the Eastern Regional title as well. After
advancing to the final with a pin in the last
minute of his semifinal bout, he dueled 1988
Division III All-American Mike Fusilli of
Ithaca into overtime before losing on riding
time. Nonetheless, the performance earned
Redfoot a spot in the national meet.

The year was less successful for the W&L
team as a whole. Outmanned in many a
meet, the Generals finished with a 2-8 record.
Still, there were many individual bright
spots. Freshman Peer Soderberg showed
promise for the future, while sophomore
126-pounder Larry Pilkey went on to com-
pete at Eastern Regional as did senior cap-
tain George Loupassi, who posted a 2-2 mark
in his final competition.

Swimming

The Washington and Lee swimming pro-
gram continued its extraordinary level of suc-
cess in 1989 as both the men’s and women’s
teams captured their respective conference
championships with one of the most
outstanding single-meet performances in the
history of Washington and Lee aquatics.

While the men’s team was favored to win
its second straight Atlantic States Conference
title and the women’s team was expected to

 

—

defend its Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference crown, nobody, including head
coach Page Remillard, could have foreseen
just how successful the swimmers would be.

Between them, the men and women set
18 school records and qualified 10 swimmers
for the NCAA Division III national cham-
pionships in mid-March. Senior Elizabeth
Miles, who helped get the W&L women’s
swimming program off the blocks as a
freshman, was named the meet’s Most
Outstanding Performer for the second year
in a row.

The men’s team defeated second-place
UNC-Charlotte by 125.5 points, while the
women, who finished third in the Atlantic
States Championships, dominated the
ODAC Championships, finishing 147 points
ahead of second-place Sweet Briar.

In addition to Miles, seniors Jeff Bercaw,
David Reavy, and Dave Dietz, juniors David
Olson and Shawn Copeland, sophomores
Sharon Coleman and Jim Dunlevy, and
freshmen Jay Smith and Chip Nordhoff all
qualified to participate in the NCAA Divi-
sion III national meet. (Results from that
meet were unavailable at press time.)

 

‘*When every single swimmer turns in a
lifetime best, it’s the kind of meet you only
dream about,’’ said Remillard. ‘‘But that’s
the kind of meet we had. Even more than
that, though, was the fact that we had a lot
of fun, too.’’

Indoor Track & Field

The Washington and Lee indoor track
team added another chapter to its long suc-
cess story this year as the Generals captured
their sixth straight Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship.

W&L produced a team effort in winning
title No. 6 for head coach Norris Aldridge,
who was voted ODAC Coach of the Year by
his peers for the sixth consecutive time. The
Generals captured six first places, eight sec-
ond places, and four third places in outscor-
ing second-place Lynchburg by 34.3 points.

Leading the way for W&L were senior
Jim Ambrosini (first in the shot put), junior
Phillip Sampson (first with an ODAC record
of 14’9”’ in the pole vault), sophomore Carl
Gilbert (first in the 400 meters), and senior
David Thompson (first in the 3000 meters).

 

Freshman Jay Smith prepares for another race that will help qualify him to compete in the

NCAA Division III national meet. Smith was one of 10 W&L swimmers who advanced to the na-

tional championships.

 

W&L Winter
Scoreboard

Basketball (20-7)

W&L 80, Gallaudet 54

W&L 86, N.C. Wesleyan 75
Emory 94, W&L 79

W&L 94, Hampden-Sydney 74
Greensboro 91, W&L 85 (OT)
W&L 89, Lynchburg 83

W&L 90, Bridgewater 82 (2OT)
WA&L 85, Elmira 78

WA&L 79, Mount St. Mary 74
W&L 102, Roanoke 86

W&L 81, Marymount 75

W&L 77, Eastern Mennonite 64
WA&L 74, Bridgewater 64

W&L 94, Mary Washington 85
Hampden-Sydney 93, W&L 79
W&L 62, Emory & Henry 57
W&L 90, Lynchburg 59

WA&L 88, Guilford 79

WA&L 81, Emory & Henry 75
W&L 99, Emory 95

W&L 84, Averett 79

W&L 78, Roanoke 67

Eastern Mennonite 67, W&L 65
Tufts 76, W&L 71

Amherst 84, W&L 67

WA&L 80, Roanoke 59
Hampden-Sydney 87, W&L 66

Wrestling (2-8)

Lebanon Valley Invitational (10th)
Western Maryland 39, W&L 13
Johns Hopkins 32, W&L 11

W&L 33, Davidson 15

Georgia Tech 36, W&L 14
Furman 33, W&L 12

WA&L Invitational (Sth)

Virginia Tech 39, W&L 11

W&L 50, Gustavus Adolphus 6
Gallaudet 28, W&L 21

LaSalle 34, W&L 13

Washington & Jefferson 40, W&L 18

Men’s Swimming (6-3)

W&L 149, VMI 78
Shippensburg 105, W&L 85
W&L 126, UNC-Charlotte 78
W&L 115, Georgetown 80
Johns Hopkins 111, W&L 93
W&L 103, Shepherd 70

W&L 93, Gettysburg 87
William & Mary 136, W&L 101

W&L 98, Mary Washington 85
Atlantic States Conf. Champs. (Ist)

Women’s Swimming (4-7)

W&L 140, Mary Baldwin 77
W&L Invitational (1st)

W&L 115, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 85
W&L 178, Sweet Briar 83
Shippensburg 113, W&L 86
UNC-Charlotte 116, W&L 88
Johns Hopkins 125, W&L 70
Georgetown 119, W&L 81
Shepherd 107, W&L 97
Gettysburg 99, W&L 90

WA&L 124, Hollins 78

Mary Washington 114, W&L 91

 

 

W&L

25

26

Generals’ Spring Sports Schedules

Mar. 17
Mar. 21
Mar. 24-25
Apr. 8
Apr. 15
Apr. 22
Apr. 28-29
May 6
May 13
Mar. l
Mar. 6
Mar. 8
Mar. ll
Mar. 14
Mar. 18
Mar. 22
Mar. 25
Mar. 29
Apr. 15
Apr. 18
Apr. 22
Apr. 29
Mar. 7
Mar. 10
Mar. ll
Mar. 14
Mar. 16
Mar. 18
Mar. 20
Mar. 21
Mar. 24
Mar. 26
Mar. 29
Apr. 10
Apr. 14
Apr. 18
Apr. 19
Apr. 22
Apr. 26
Apr. 29
Mar. 10-11
Mar. 15
Mar. 21
Mar. 24
Mar. 27
Apr. 14
Apr. 18
Apr. 19
Apr. 24-25

W&L

TRACK

Bridgewater, Roanoke
Eastern Mennonite
Newport News Apprentice
Eastern Mennonite
Battlefield Relays
Colonial Relays
Catholic Invitational
ODAC Championship
Penn Relays
Hampton Invitational
Virginia Invitational

LACROSSE

Virginia

Wooster
Randolph-Macon
Franklin & Marshall
St. Lawrence

Ohio Wesleyan
Lynchburg
Gettysburg
Middlebury
Hampden-Sydney
Roanoke
Washington College
Virginia Military Institute

BASEBALL

Mary Washington
West Virginia Tech
West Virginia Tech (2)
Bridgewater

Eastern Mennonite
Randolph-Macon (2)
Utica College
Hampden-Sydney
Lynchburg

Emory & Henry (2)
Bridgewater
Shenandoah (2)
Lynchburg
Hampden-Sydney
Eastern Mennonite
St. Mary’s (MD) (2)
ODAC Tourney
ODAC Tourney

GOLF

James Madison Invit.
ODAC Round Robin
ODAC Round Robin
Shenandoah
Longwood College,
Radford College
ODAC Round Robin

- ODAC Round Robin

Shenandoah
ODAC Championships

Away

Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away

Home
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away

Home
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Home
Away
Away

Away
Away
Away
Home

Home
Home
Away
Away
Home

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

Apr.
Apr.

Feb.
Feb.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May
May
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

WOMEN’S LACROSSE

Frostburg

IFWLA at Hollins
Bridgewater

Sweet Briar

Roanoke

Mary Washington

Mary Baldwin

Goucher College
Washington College
Randolph-Macon Woman’s
Hollins
Randolph-Macon/Ashland
Guilford

Lynchburg

Virginia Tech

First Round ODAC
ODAC Tournament
ODAC Tournament

MEN’S TENNIS

Penn State

James Madison Univ.
Virginia Tech
Davidson

Furman
Randolph-Macon
Averett

Millersville

William & Mary
Lynchburg

Univ. of the South
Swarthmore
Hampden-Sydney
Stetson

Flagler

Rollins

North Florida
ODAC Tournament
ODAC Tournament
Emory (At Davidson)
Hampton

NCAA III Tournament
NCAA III Tournament

WOMEN’S TENNIS

Va. Commonwealth
Virginia Wesleyan
Emory & Henry
Randolph Macon/Ashland
Hollins

Mary Baldwin

Hope College
Randolph-Macon W.C.
Bridgewater

Roanoke

Rhodes College
Tournament

Sweet Briar

Lynchburg

ODAC Tournament
ODAC Tournament

Home

Home
Away
Away
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away
Home
Home
Away
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away

Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away

Away
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Home
Home
Home
Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away

Alumni News

_
~ % r

AS
PALMETTO—Displaying the Small Chapter of the Year Award are (from left) W. Dan

McGrew, ’52, president of the Alumni Board of Directors; John Hamilton, ’80, chapter presi-
dent; Cheryl Hamilton; and W&L President John D. Wilson.

'IDEWATER—Randi Ballard, Bill Ballard,
verse during a meeting in Norfolk.

Palmetto Named Small Chapter of Year

 

 

 

‘73, John Flippen, ’82, and Nash Francis, ’78, con-

he Palmetto chapter received the

| second annual Small Chapter of the

Year Award during a reception and

dinner at the Radisson Hotel in Columbia,
S.C., in January.

On hand to present the award were W&L
President John D. Wilson; W. Dan McGrew,
’52, president of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors; and Richard B. Sessoms, director of
alumni programs.

Selection for the Small Chapter of the
Year Award is based on a number of criteria,
including the number and quality of chapter
meetings; the percentage of attendance at
those meetings; alumni admissions and
career assistance activity; percentage of An-
nual Fund participation; alumni scholarship
activity; compliance with the alumni chapter
manual; and local alumni efforts for the
University.

Tampa alumni
meet with trustees

When Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees met in Tampa in late January, area
alumni used the occasion as an opportunity
to hold a mid-winter get-together.

The Florida West Coast chapter enjoyed
a reception at the Tampa Museum of Art,
where, it just so happened, Washington and
Lee’s Reeves Collection of Chinese Export
Porcelain was on exhibition.

Lee birthday celebrations

During the winter months alumni
throughout the nation held a variety of
events to observe the birthday of Robert E.
Lee.

Several members of the University’s
faculty and administration were on hand for
celebrations in a number of cities. Rick
Heatley, associate dean of students and
director of the Office of Career Development
and Placement, visited the Tidewater
chapter, while James Farrar Jr., associate
alumni secretary, traveled to Spartanburg
and Atlanta. Ken Ruscio, assistant dean of
students for freshmen and residence life, met
with the Keystone chapter, and John W.
Elrod, vice president for academic affairs,
was in Middle Tennessee. Closer to home,

W&L 27

Taylor Sanders, professor of history and
University historian, presented a fable to the
Rockbridge chapter about a 20th-century
visit Lee might make to the school that bears
his name.

Meanwhile, pianist Robert Vienneau,
°87, ’90L, entertained members of the San
Diego chapter during a Lee birthday event,
and JubiLee, W&L’s women’s singing
ensemble, performed for a meeting of the
South Carolina Piedmont chapter.

Other chapters sponsoring events in
honor of Lee’s birthday included Jackson-
ville, Mid-South, Louisville, and Baltimore.

Other chapter activities

Several chapters—including Mid-South,
Central Mississippi, Chattanooga, and
Chicago—entertained director of alumni
programs Sessoms during receptions in the
fall.

Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion
and director of the University’s Society and
the Professions applied ethics program,
traveled to Atlanta to speak to the chapter
there about business ethics. Meanwhile, Lex
McMillan, director of development, Chris
Deighan, alumni staff associate, and
Southern Comfort, the men’s singing ensem-
ble, were on hand for a reception sponsored
by the Winston-Salem chapter.

Alumni in St. Louis celebrated the
Generals’ 17-13 football victory over
Washington University with a postgame
reception and dinner at the home of Flo and
Andy Baur, °37.

Down in New Orleans, chapter members
greeted both prospective students and Tim
McMahon, ’87, admissions counselor, dur-
ing a reception at the home of Joe Carrere,
’77. Alumni in San Diego and Detroit and
along the Gulf Stream got together with
graduates of other Virginia colleges for ‘‘Old
Dominion Day’’ events.

The W&L contingent in Atlanta cheered
for the Generals in one of their few losses
of the football season to Emory University
in November.

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the School
of Law, was the guest of honor at a meeting
and reception sponsored by the Washington,
D.C., chapter. In the Big Apple, members
of the New York chapter held a mid-week
get-together after work.

Both the Lynchburg and Northwest
Louisiana chapters celebrated Christmas
with special functions in December.
Members of the Winston-Salem and
Greensboro chapters, meantime, attended
the annual meeting of the Better Business
Bureau in Winston-Salem to hear a keynote
address by former W&L president Robert
E.R. Huntley.

28 W&L

 

 

5 >

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Eight members of the law class of 1985 held a mini-reunion during the
Washington chapter’s November reception honoring Dean Randall P. Bezanson. Pictured from
left are (seated) Mary Madigan, Anne-Marie Grande, Bezanson; (standing) Connie Pierce, Susan
Devine, Seth Prager, Charlie Martel, Jean Barrett, and Carl Hankla.

 

SPARTANBURG—Among those attending a function at the Carolina Country Club are (from
left) Craig Williams, ’73, Marshall Washburn, ’73, and chapter president Arthur Cleveland, °71.

els

 

»
} oJ - -
* 1
fl ~ . + »_
< fd * a - .

ATLANTA—Celebrating the birthday of Robert E. Lee are (from left) Kitty Farrar; Jim Farrar,
'74, associate director of alumni programs; Don Childress, ’70; Randy Hutto, ’70, chapter presi-
dent; and hosts Eileen and Bo DuBose, ’62.

New chapter presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:

Baltimore—Robert S. Clements, ’80;

Greensboro—James E. Dunn Jr., ’82;

Long Island—Christopher J. Komosa,
86;

Louisville—E. Neal Cory II, ’77;

Rockbridge—James A. Jones, 77.

 

ROCKBRIDGE—In attendance at the Lee birthday celebration at the Lexington Golf and Coun-
try Club were William C. Washburn, ’40, former director of alumni programs; chapter president
James A. Jones, ’77; history professor I. Taylor Sanders, who was the event’s speaker; and
Richard B. Sessoms, director of alumni programs.

 

Nominating Committee Appointed

Each year a three-member nominating committee is empaneled to fill vacant seats on the Alumni Board of
Directors and to elect an alumni representative to the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the names and addresses of the
members of the Nominating Committee must be published. The By-Laws stipulate that any members of the Alumni
Association may submit names of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination to the offices to be filled.

The Nominating Committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill five seats on the Alumni Board
of Directors and the vacancy on the University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Alumni may send names directly to any members of the committee or to the committee through the office
of the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at the University.

The committee will close its report on April 14, 1989, and present its nomination to the annual meeting of
the Alumni Association on May 13, 1989.

Members of this year’s committee and their addresses are listed below:

 

 

 

 

Frank A. Bailey HI, ’66 John W. Folsom, °73 William J. Russell Jr., ’57
Frank Bailey Grain Co. South Carolina Federal McBryan, Malone &
Inc. Savings Bank Russell
Box 510 P.O. Box 69 Rd. 11, Box 144A
Fort Worth, TX 76101 Columbia, SC 29202 Reading, PA 19607
(817) 731-6341 (803) 254-1500 (215) 777-8110
W&L 29

At the age of 91, ADOLPH S.

(SIM) MARX makes a daily trip to
his downtown office in Lake Charles, La., where
he is an active member of SCORE. Marx is an
honorary trustee of Memorial Hospital of Lake
Charles and of the McNeese State University
Foundation.

ANDREW T. ROY, retired vice

president for public relations of
Chung Chi College of the Chinese University of
Hong Kong, returned to China in May 1988 on
the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the
University of Nanjing. Roy lives in Upper St.
Clair, Pa., with his wife, Margaret.

Members of the Class of 1938 of

Western Michigan University recently
honored JAMES E. BANE during the 50th reu-
nion of their class in Kalamazoo. Bane taught
history at the school from 1929 to 1936. He retired
in Springfield, Mo., as professor of psychology
emeritus of Southwest Missouri State University,
where he had served from 1950 to 1976.

BEVERLY J. LAMBERT JR. of Lit-

tle Rock is serving a term as president
of the Arkansas Senior Democrats. He is also state
coordinator of the American Association of
Retired Persons.

EVERETT N. CROSS, sight conser-

vation chairman for the Sun City,
Ariz., B-4-9 Lions Club, works closely with
teachers and nurses in seven schools in nearby
Glendale to provide eye examinations and
eyeglasses to needy children. Since Cross assum-
ed the post in 1974, 473 children have received the
service.

30 =W&L

DAVID G. PRICE serves as a volunteer ‘‘grand-
father image”’ in a church nursery school near his
home in Chevy Chase, Md.

On July 31, COPELAND E.
ADAMS retired from the general
practice of law in Blackstone, Va.

JAMES A. MCCLURE (See
Edward A. Turville, ’36).

FOSTER MCCRUM PALMER of Watertown,
Mass., has been elected a member of the Colonial
Society of Massachusetts.

Jackson, Miss., attorney ROBERT F.

COOPER JR. and his wife, Mary,
celebrated their 45th wedding anniversary aboard
the Queen Elizabeth I in September, when the ship
sailed from New York to Bermuda.

JOHN E. FRIEND is director of the Junior Golf
Program at the Washington (N.C.) Yacht and City
Club.

When JAMES A. MCCLURE, ’34,

’37L, retired from the St. Petersburg,
Fla., law firm of McClure & Turville, EDWARD
A. TURVILLE continued his law practice as a sole
practitioner. McClure & Turville operated from
1946 until 1986.

Retired U.S. Army Maj. Gen.

ARCHIBALD A. SPROUL was
named to the Virginia Cultural Laureate Society
in October. Sproul was recognized for his contribu-
tions as chairman of the American Frontier
Culture Foundation, as a trustee of Stuart Hall
school and Staunton YMCA, and as a former
member of the board of visitors of Virginia
Military Institute.

THE REV. ARTHUR L. BICE is on-

ly partially retired, serving as vicar of
St. Michael’s Episcopal Church in Middleville,
N.Y., and, during the summers, of St. Peter’s By
the Lake in the central Adirondacks at Eagle Bay,
N.Y.

THOMAS W. CHRISTOPHER

retired from the University of
Alabama School of Law in August after serving
as professor of law or dean since 1971. He and
his wife, Goldie Ann, live in Greenville, S.C.

CHARLES L. GUTHRIE is retired from the U.S.
Department of Defense and lives in Madrid, Spain,
with his wife, Lothaine.

On Dec. 31, 1988, T. KENNEDY
(TEKE) HELM JR. retired from the
Louisville, Ky., law firm of Stites & Harbison.

DR. WILLIAM M. MANGER, professor of
clinical medicine at New York University Medical
Center, is chairman of the National Hypertension
Association. He also practices internal medicine
and performs research at NYU. He and his wife,
Lynn, have three sons and a daughter.

THOMAS W. BROCKENBROUGH

is director of the American Society
of Civil Engineers’ District 5 and serves on a com-
mittee of the National Council of Engineering Ex-
aminers. He retired in August as chairman of the
civil engineering department at the University of
Delaware and lives in Newark, Del., with his wife,
Mary Lou.

WILLIAM L. (SONNY) HEARTWELL has
retired as executive vice president of Interstate
Conference Inc. He lives in Fredericksburg, Va.,
with his wife, Lucy.

CHARLES L. HOBSON, who practices law in
Frankfort, Ky., with his daughter, Alice, teaches
a class in celestial navigation to members of
Bluegrass Power Squadron.

When C. H. Reiter & Co. was sold in 1985 to the
Fifth Third Bank of Cincinnati, JACK L. REITER
remained with the company to run its investment
department. He has now retired after 50 years in
the investment securities business to spend sum-
mers in Owenton, Ky., and his springs in Florida.

After retiring as director of public relations and
advertising for E-Systems’ Florida divisions,
ROBERT E. STEELE has moved to Sanibel
Island, Fla., where he intends to keep active as a
free-lance writer and public relations consultant.

BENTON M. WAKEFIELD JR. retired as chair-
man and chief executive officer of First Financial
Bank in New Orleans and promptly opened his
own office on June | to specialize in banking and
thrift consulting.

JONATHAN W. (JACK) WARNER, chairman
and chief executive officer of Gulf States Paper
Corp. in Tuscaloosa, Ala., is the winner of the
1989 Alabama Distinguished Sportsman Award,
a recognition of the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame.
A Southern Conference swimming champion at
W&L, he continues to swim, play tennis, and ride
horses.

 

 

* tp =e J
a a eo

 

 

WALTER L. MONROE is president
of Millsboro Cemetery Inc. in
Millsboro, Del., where his wife, Thelma, is mayor.

The National Mining Hall of Fame and Museum
in Leadville, Colo., named HERBERT M. WEED
as regional fund-raising chairman for Montana,
Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, and New
Mexico. Weed, who recently retired as vice presi-
dent and director of United Park City Mines in
Salt Lake City, is a metals industry consultant. He
lives in Englewood, Colo.

L.R. (BOB) COULLING JR. retired

Dec. 31 from the firm of Hudgins,
Coulling, Brewster, Morhous, and Cameron in
Bluefield, W.Va. Coulling had practiced law in
Virginia and West Virginia for nearly 40 years and
was well known for his successful defense of physi-
cians and hospitals in malpractice cases.

The mayor and board of commissioners of
Clarksdale, Miss., inducted JOSEPH F. ELLIS
JR. into the city’s 1988 Hall of Fame in November.
The former publisher and editor-in-chief of the
Clarksdale Press Register is a past president of the
Coahoma County Chamber of Commerce and
served as chairman of the city’s Industrial Foun-
dation for five years. He lives in Clarksdale with
his wife, Mary.

CHARLES L. HOBSON (See ’41).

Impressed with a long and varied history of ser-
vice to the Montgomery, Ala., community, the
selection committee for the city’s Citizen of the
Year award named PHILIP A. SELLERS its win-
ner for 1988. The president of the Philip A. Sellers
Co. Inc. investment firm has served the boards and
committees of the United Way, Chamber of Com-
merce, Alabama Shakespeare Festival, the YMCA,
Jackson Hospital, and Baptist Medical Center.

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN is an
insurance-reinsurance consultant
working on disputes in litigation and arbitration.
He lives in Virginia Beach with his wife, Kitty.

Retired advertising agency executive G. EDWARD
HEINECKE was elected in 1988 as chairman of
the Wisconsin Salvation Army Advisory Board
and also as president of Second Harvesters of
Wisconsin Food Bank in Milwaukee. He lives in
Mequon.

GRANT E. MOUSER III teaches a course at the
College of William and Mary in Williamsburg and
writes articles on foreign affairs for the local press.
He is retired after 35 years of diplomatic service.

DR. J. WILLIAM RUNYAN is professor of
medicine and chairman of the department of
preventive medicine at the University of Tennessee
Health Sciences Center in Memphis. He and his
wife, Barbara, have three sons and three
grandchildren.

L.H. (HOLLY) SMITH JR., professor of
medicine and associate dean at the University of
California-San Francisco, is chairman of the
medical advisory board of the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, the largest private foundation
in the country.

After 40 years with Scripps-Howard’s
the Knoxville News-Sentinal and the
Memphis Commercial Appeal, JOHN H. SOR-
RELLS JR. of Memphis, Tenn., retired June 30.

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190.00 - Not including $170.00 - Not including
Freight charges Freight charges
(Freight charges available upon request.)

The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available in natural dark pine stain,
with crest in five colors, at the same price as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

W&L 31

 

DR. JOHN J. KELLY III recently
retired as medical director for Blue
Cross and Blue Shield of Virginia. He is a former
professor of medicine at the Medical College of
Virginia and former chief of medicine of the
McGuire Veterans Administration Medical Center.

BERNARD F. JUDY retired Dec. 31

as editor-in-chief of the Toledo
(Ohio) Blade after serving the newspaper for 40
years.

Having served as chairman of the

radiology department at the Univer-
sity of Colorado Medical Center for 15 years, DR.
MARVIN L. DAVES stepped down to resume
full-time teaching and research. He currently is
engaged in the instruction and application of
diagnostic imaging, a new method of radiologic
treatment. Daves is the author of two books, one
on the human brain and one on the human heart.

HERBERT P. (PETE) MITCHELL and his wife,
Mary Belle, volunteer as hosts at Mission Haven,
a residence for Presbyterian missionaries on home
assignment. The couple lives in Decatur, Ga.

GRANT E. MOUSER III (See ’44).

PHILIP C. BRAUNSCHWEIG

stays busy with volunteer duties. He
is presently working as an arbitrator for the Bet-
ter Business Bureau and a member of the Bell
South Advertising and Publishing Committee.

D. EARL BROWN JR. is director of health policy
studies with Abt Associates Inc. in Washington,
D.C. Abt is a social sciences policy research and
consulting firm for government agencies and
private industries.

L.R. (BOB) COULLING JR. (See ’43).

Roanoke Circuit Court Judge JACK B.
COULTER retired March 1. He was a civil trial
lawyer in Roanoke for 26 years before becoming
a judge in 1973.

Washington and Lee golf coach EMMETT G.
(BUCK) LESLIE JR. was named Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Coach of the Year for 1988.

JOSEPH B. MARTIN, director of labor relations
at American Electric Power in Columbus, Ohio,
recently wrote the book Jmproving the Employee
Relations Climate. All levels of management at
American Electric received a copy of the book,
which is subtitled A Common Sense Guide for
Management. Martin plans to retire June 1 and
move to Williamsburg, Va., where he hopes to
become a consultant on employee relations.

SPENCER W. MORTEN recently received the
Brotherhood Award at the National Conference
of Christians and Jews in New York. He is chair-
man and chief executive officer of Bassett Mirror
Co. in Bassett, Va.

Having served as treasurer of the board of trustees
of Monmouth College since 1981, RICHARD H.
TURRELL was elected vice chairman of the board
in June 1988. He lives in Short Hills, N.J., with
his wife, Sally, and is senior vice president of
Fiduciary Trust Co. International in New York
City.

West Palm Beach, Fla., cardiologist DR.
DONALD E. WARREN received the honorary
doctor of humane letters from Palm Beach Atlan-
tic College in September. Warren is chairman of
the college’s board of trustees.

32° WG.

After 32 years with Jefferson-Pilot
Life Insurance Co., JOHN R.
BALDWIN retired as group sales manager of the
mid-Atlantic states region. He keeps busy
volunteering at a local hospital near Yuma, Ariz.

WILLIAM L. BROWN JR. retired from NBC and
RCA after beginning with NBC 36 years ago. He
now devotes his full time to oil painting in
Southbury, Conn., where he lives with his wife,
Peggy Lane.

DR. JOHN S. CHAPMAN, who practices inter-
nal medicine in Dubuque, Iowa, was elected a
fellow of the American College of Physicians in
1988.

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN (See ’44).

JOHN L. HOPKINS is retired from the practice
of law in Rocky Mount, Va.

After a 3l-year banking career, JOHN H.
MCCORMACK JR. retired Oct. 31 as senior vice
president of First Union National Bank of Florida.
He is active as chairman of the bank’s Jackson-
ville board of directors. Among other activities,
he is a director of the Florida State Chamber of
Commerce, the Florida Bankers Association, and
the National Conference of Christians and Jews.

The World United Service Organizations elected
OLIVER M. MENDELL to its board of gover-
nors in September. Mendell is senior vice presi-
dent of Chemical Bank in New York City.

F. ALDEN (SHORTY) MURRAY JR. was elected
to the Certified Commercial Investment Member
governing council of the Realtors National In-
stitute at the group’s national convention in San
Francisco in November. He is in the commercial
real estate sales, finance, appraising, and counsel-
ing business as president of Alden Inc. in Bethesda,
Md.

HOWARD L. STEELE is special assistant to the
director of the technical assistance division of the
office of international cooperation and develop-
ment at the U.S. Department of Agriculture in
Washington, D.C. He previously spent 12 years
either on Overseas assignments or in the U.S. State
Department in Washington.

Former Congressman GEORGE W. WHITE-
HURST attended both national conventions as a
part-time political analyst for WVEC-TV, the Nor-
folk, Va., ABC affiliate.

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON JR. is a member of the
national development council at the University of
Arkansas at Fayetteville.

DR. ALAN L. KAPLAN is professor

of medicine and chief of the section
of oncology in the department of obstetrics and
gynecology at Baylor College of Medicine in
Houston.

THOMAS C. MARTIN of Mount Laurel, N.J.,
is senior vice president of the residential mortgage
division at Commerce Bank in Cherry Hill. He
previously was senior vice president of Meridian
Mortgage Corp.

JAMES H. PATTON IV of Dalton, Ga., is a part-
ner at J. C. Bradford & Co. He has been active
in the community as a director of the Whitfield
Heart Care Foundation and the Dalton College
Foundation, as a volunteer in little league foot-
ball, and as an elder at Grace Presbyterian Church.

 

 

Clearing
the
Heir

Are you concerned that your
philanthropic interests conflict with
your desire to convey to your children
the assets you’ve worked a lifetime to
accumulate?

You may be pleased to know that
there’s a way to satisfy both of these
goals.

Among the various types of
planned gift opportunities is one that:

e Provides an outright gift to
W&L for a specified number of years
for a purpose you designate;

e Decreases your taxable income
during that period;

¢ Makes possible a major gift to
your heirs at a low gift tax cost;

e Removes assets from your
estate; and

e Passes on to your heirs free of
gift or estate taxes any asset apprecia-
tion that may have occurred during the
specified period.

For example, suppose you were to
create what is technically called a
‘charitable lead trust’’ that for 20
years would provide to W&L an an-
nual income amounting to 10 percent
of the original amount set aside. At the
end of this period, only about 15 per-
cent of the initial amount would be
subject to gift and estate taxes when
passed to your heirs. (U.S. Treasury
tables are used to determine these
figures. The larger the distribution to
W&L, the smaller the amount subject
to gift and estate taxes.)

Indeed, you can ‘‘clear the
heir’’—your heir or heirs—of a signifi-
cant tax burden and also do something
truly wonderful for an institution that
has meant so much to you over the
years. This type of gift is an ideal way
to fund a scholarship, make campaign
pledge payments, or endow a
professorship—to list a few examples
of areas where you can substantially
strengthen W&L.

To learn more about this approach
to estate planning, call the Office of
Development at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

 

 

-

MORTON B. SOLOMON of Wyckoff, N.J.,
recently became a member of the Auditing Stan-
dards Board of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. He is a partner in the New
York City office of Peat Marwick Main & Co.

During the past two years, BUDDY

G. (BAY) ARNOLD completed two
projects in India and the United Kingdom as a
management consultant. He is retired from Du-
Pont Co. and lives in Hixson, Tenn.

BRANTLEY F. BARR JR. has
moved from Chatham, N.J., to
Columbus, Ohio, where he is vice president of The
Huntington Co., a regional bank holding com-
pany. He lives in Worthington with his wife, Cheri,
and three of his children, Bradie, Ben, and Marci.

Retired DuPont Co. executive CHARLES K. BIB-
BY will appear in the soon-to-be-released films,
Terror on Highway 91 and Chattahoochee. Bib-
by began his acting career with a role in the CBS
mini-series ‘‘Chiefs’’ and recently appeared in Bull
Durham, which starred Kevin Costner. He lives
in Charlotte with his wife, Ann.

Claremont University Center and Graduate School
President JOHN D. MAGUIRE is a permanent
trustee of the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for
Social Change in Atlanta and is adviser to The Na-
tional Council for the Development of Education.
He also serves as a member of the governing coun-
cil of the Wye (Md.) Faculty Seminar and a trustee
of the Bingham Fund for Excellence in Teaching
at Kentucky’s Transylvania University, the Lin-
coln Foundation and Lincoln Institute of Land
Policy Inc., and the JL Foundation. Maguire is
a member of the American Committee on U.S.-
Soviet Relations and the Council of Foreign Rela-
tions. He lives in Claremont, Calif., with his wife,
Billie.

MCHENRY T. (MAC) TICHENOR of Jensen
Beach, Fla., is chairman of a radio broadcasting
company that owns nine stations, all of which are
programmed in Spanish.

Retired 10th Judicial District Judge J. TAYLOR
WILLIAMS frequently substitutes in various
district courts. He lives in Cumberland, Va.

DAVID P. COMEGYS is vice presi-
dent of sales with Smith Barney in
Newport Beach, Calif.

JOHN M. DUHE JR. was sworn in Dec. 8 as
judge of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
He lives in New Iberia, La.

CLAUDE R. (BUD) HILL JR., chairman of the
board and president of M&M Financial Corp. and
Merchants and Miners National Bank in Oak Hill,
W.Va., was elected director of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond in 1988. Hill is president-elect
of the West Virginia Bankers Association and a
member of the West Virginia Roundtable and
Business Foundation and serves as a director of
the West Virginia Institute of Technology. He lives
in Fayetteville with his wife, Pinny.

HARRY M. HOLLINS, chairman of the Loui-
siana Racing Commission, is a trustee of the Loui-
siana Council on Economic Education. He also
is On the board of Memorial Hospital and First
National Bank of Lake Charles, where he lives
with his wife, Keith. Hollins is currently restor-
ing Al Capone’s 1928, 40-foot Robinson Seagull
Commuter boat, which he intends to run from
Michigan to Louisiana.

R. GORDON GOOCH, founder of

the Washington, D.C., law firm of
Travis & Gooch, was elected this fall as chairman
of the American Bar Association’s Section of
Public Utility Law.

ARTHUR W. MCCAIN JR. is vice president and
manager of the master custody division at Chase
Manhattan Bank’s New York City office. He
previously spent 29 years with General Electric Co.
He and his wife, Peggy, live in Fairfield, Conn.

MORTON P. ILER of Santa

Monica, Calif., is a management and
financial consultant in the greater Los Angeles
area.

The small-package shipping company

JOHN S. COLEMAN established in
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, in 1985 is now con-
nected to United Parcel Service in Miami. Cole-
man’s company, Package Express, is the authoriz-
ed agent for DHL Worldwide Express in St.
Thomas and Tortola, British Virgin Islands.

DANIEL S. COX is chief of the National Review
Team for the U.S. Department of Labor. He and
his wife, Barbara, live in Washington.

J. GILL HOLLAND, professor of English at
Davidson College in North Carolina, is currently
spending a semester in the foreign language depart-
ment at Beijing Normal University.

FRANK M. HOOPES JR., director of acrylic pro-
ducts for E. I. DuPont Co. in Wilmington, Del.,
was the 1988 chairman of the Delaware chapter
of the American Red Cross.

ROBERT G. JACOB is systems

center manager for technical
marketing support for IBM in the southeastern
United States. He lives in Atlanta, where he is a
director of United Cerebral Palsy and a director
and fund-raising chairman for the Council on Bat-
tered Women. He also is a United Way Board
Bank member.

Having directed the freshman composition pro-
gram at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater
from 1977 to 1985, WILLIAM H. PIXTON now
teaches grammar and rhetoric as an associate
professor.

DAVID B. ROOT is senior vice president at Bill
Few Associates Inc., a financial planning counsel-
ing firm in Pittsburgh.

After being nominated by Va. Gov. Gerald Baliles,
ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. received the Lewis
Hine Award for Child Advocacy from the Na-
tional Child Labor Committee in 1988. Shepherd
is professor of law at the University of Richmond.

DR. RICHARD W. COHEN, an or-

thopedic surgeon with Drs. Klaus,
Cohen & Well in Atlanta, is vice president of the
Medical Association of Georgia and a state
delegate to the American Medical Association.

After many years in the advertising business,
JAMES I. GREENE has become director of
development at Linsly School in Wheeling, W.Va.

JOHN S. HOPEWELL, a U.S. history teacher at
the Collegiate Schools in Richmond, is spending
the semester teaching at the Weald School, a public
school in Billinghurst, Sussex, United Kingdom.

 

 

A Special Anniversary

 

mond News-Leader photo)

As Congregation Beth Ahabah celebrates its bicentennial this year, Dr. Harold
Lyons, ’22, has special reason to be proud.

Lyons is the oldest living past president of the Reform synagogue in Richmond,
Va., which is the sixth oldest congregation in the country and the largest Reform
congregation between Washington and Florida.

Lyons joined the congregation in 1919, when he entered the Medical College of
Virginia School of Dentistry. During those years, the congregation was in transition

from Orthodoxy to Reform Judaism.

**You don’t know how much that meant,’’ Lyons told the Richmond News Leader.
‘“*It meant that you could be a Jew and participate fully in the community.”’

 

Dr. Harry Lyons with the youngest member of Congrega-
tion Beth Ahabah, 6-month-old Benjamin Hawkins (Rich-

site

 

 

W&L 33

He was one of two Virginians selected to par-
ticipate in the Fulbright Teacher Exchange pro-
gram this semester.

H. GERALD SHIELDS was recently appointed
vice principal at International School in Manila,
Philippines.

DANIEL S. COX (See ’58).

In October President Reagan appointed
STEPHEN I. DANZANSKY to the position of
deputy assistant to the president for economic af-
fairs. Danzansky had been special assistant to the
president and senior director for international
economic affairs on the National Security Coun-
cil staff and had been responsible for planning and
coordinating economic summits for the White
House.

JOHN R. FARMER, a partner in the firm
Goldman, Sachs & Co., has been transferred from
the San Francisco office to the London office. He
is responsible for the investment banking firm’s
European fixed income activities.

HENRY H. HARRELL, president of the
Richmond-based tobacco company Universal
Corp., was elected chief executive officer in Oc-
tober. Harrell joined Universal in 1966 and was
appointed president two years ago.

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS is president and
chief executive officer of First Atlantic Securities
Inc., an investment banking firm based in Raleigh,
N.C.

MILFORD F. SCHWARTZ JR.., associate pro-
fessor of clinical pediatrics at the University of
Chicago, also serves as medical director of the
developmental institute at Michael Reese Hospital
and Medical Center.

In October the U.S. Senate confirmed

the appointment of CHARLES R.
BUTLER JR. as U.S. district judge for the
southern district of Alabama. Butler was sworn
in Nov. 1. He lives in Mobile.

ANDREW J. CONROY III,
president of Spring Grove
Cemetery and Arboretum in
Cincinnati, was elected presi-
dent of the American
' Cemetery Association in the
fall. Conroy previously serv-
ed the association as vice
president, board of directors
representative, strategic
planning committee member, and program chair-
man for the 1988 convention.

ALAN M. CORWIN, who is associated with Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. in Olympia, Wash., was
recently elected chairman of the Thurston Coun-
ty Planning Commission.

RALPH L. ELIAS JR. and a partner recently pur-
chased Hermes Leather Corp., a supplier for
manufacturers of handbags, belts, garments, and
upholstery. The company, located in New York
City, ships to businesses all over the country.

 

Commonwealth of Virginia 25th Circuit Judge
GEORGE E. HONTS III, who presides in Lex-
ington, will receive a master of judicial studies
degree from the University of Nevada at Reno in
association with the National Judicial College.
Fewer than 10 judges nationwide have received this
particular degree.

34. W&L

WILLIAM W. MOORE, senior vice president of
municipal markets with Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets in New York City, is serving a three-year
term on the board of directors of the Public
Securities Association.

DR. CHARLES J. NIEMEYER, who practices or-
thopedic surgery in Gastonia, N.C., assumed
duties as chief of staff of Gaston Memorial
Hospital on Jan. 1.

LESLIE H. PEARD III was recently promoted to
second vice president with Shearson Lehman Hut-
ton’s Fresno, Calif., office. He is president of the
Boosters Club for Bullard High School.

E. PHILIP MCCALEB of

Craddockville, Va., is a director and
member of the steering committee to organize
Habitat for Humanity of the Eastern Shore.

GEORGE E. MISSBACH JR. and a wildlife ar-
tist recently founded Classic Designs Ltd.,
designers and manufacturers of three-dimensional
camouflage material for hunting clothing
manufacturers. Missbach is vice president of
George E. Missbach & Co., a manufacturers’
representative company which is based in Atlanta.

In November J. HOLMES MORRISON was
elected president and chief executive officer of One
Valley Bank in Charleston, W.Va.

Taylor Daily Press president and publisher
CHARLES A. SCHULZ JR. is treasurer of the
Texas Daily Newspaper Association for 1989.

Virginia International Terminals Inc.,

the operating company of the
Virginia Port Authority, named CONWAY H.
SHEILD III as president for 1989. He succeeds
J. RIDGLEY PORTER III, ’73. Sheild is a part-
ner in the Newport News, Va., law firm of Jones,
Blechman, Woltz & Kelly.

JAMES H. WALLENSTEIN is chairman of the
State Bar of Texas Real Estate Probate and Trust
Law Section, which has 6,700 members. He is an
attorney with Jenkens & Gilchrist in Dallas and
is adjunct professor of real estate law at Southern
Methodist University. For the past eight years, he
has served as chairman of the annual University
of Texas Mortgage Lending Institute, which at-
tracts more than 1,000 participants each year.

Having served as an executive in

private and public social service
organizations for several years, JAMES N.
CARGILL JR. is now an independent investor in
Newport News, Va.

 

— ene

administration.

1984.

 

Mosbacher Appointed to Cabinet

Robert A. Mosbacher, ’47, a longtime friend of President George Bush, has been
named secretary of commerce for the new administration.

Mosbacher is president of the family-owned Mosbacher Energy Company, a
140-employee oil and gas firm in Houston. He first met Bush three decades ago, and
he has been an active fund-raiser for every Bush campaign since 1971. He was co-
chairman of the Republican National Finance Committee during the Reagan

Washington and Lee awarded Mosbacher an honorary doctor of laws degree in

FRANK O. GLENN III of Long Beach, Wash.,
is manager and part owner of Cranguyma Farms
Inc., the largest cranberry farm in the western
United States which provides berries for Ocean
Spray. Glenn is a director and secretary of Bank
of the Pacific.

After eight years in investment banking with Bank
of Boston, STEPHEN T. HIBBARD is now vice
president and investment counselor for Scimitar
North American Asset Management. He lives in
Weston, Mass.

JOHN W. HUNT, his wife, Ann, and children,
Linsly and Andy, have moved to Grosse Pointe
Park, Mich., where Hunt is vice president-finance
of Motor City Electric Co.

STEWART M. HURTT is vice president of The
Fountainhead Title Group, a large real estate ti-
tle company in Maryland and Virginia. He also
practices law in Laurel, Md.

ALAN L. MARX, an attorney with King & Ballow
in Nashville, Tenn., is teaching antitrust law at
Vanderbilt University.

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS (See ’61).

JOHN F. WOLFE of Columbus, Ohio, was
featured in the October 1988 issue of Columbus
Monthly for his role as publisher of the city’s on-
ly daily newspaper, the Dispatch, and his positions
as chairman of three large civic projects. The pro-
jects, which are expected to gain Columbus na-
tional and international attention, include the
largest exhibition of Chinese art and artifacts to
tour the United States, a yearlong festival in 1992
commemorating Christopher Columbus’s landing
in the New World, and a 17-day indoor garden
and flower show.

NORMAN YOERG, an attorney at American
Cyanamid Co. in Wayne, N.J., was recently listed
in Who’s Who of Emerging Leaders. He previous-
ly was listed in Who’s Who of American Lawyers.

HARRY E. BROOKBY of

Kingwood, Texas, was recently
elected president and chief executive officer of
Summit Exploration Corp. of Houston. Summit
is an oil and gas exploration company focusing ef-
forts in the Gulf of Mexico.

MERCER K. (BUD) CLARKE is a partner in the
Miami office of Kelley, Drye & Warren.

THOMAS G. DAY was recently named senior vice
president of sales for Monet Jewelers Inc. in New
York City.

MAURICE R. FLIESS, who has been managing
editor of the American Newspaper Publishers

 

 

Oe ee eee eee

ee ee oe ae.

Association’s Presstime since the publication’s
founding 10 years ago, recently was named direc-
tor of the monthly magazine.

HARRY G. GOODHEART III opened the law
partnership Goodheart & Masterson in Bradenton,
Fla., on Jan. 1. He is a court-appointed mediator
and explores how courts, lawyers, and companies
can use alternative dispute resolution methods for
improving the tort system.

On March 1, BRUCE S. KRAMER completed his
first year with the Memphis, Tenn., law firm of
Borod & Kramer.

J. MICHEL MARCOUX, an attorney with
Bruder & Gentile in Washington, D.C., represents
natural gas distribution companies and electric
utilities that use natural gas. He and his wife,
Mary, have three children, Phillip, 22, Michel, 10,
and Fontaine, 7.

GRAYSON C. POWELL JR. has been named
shipping supervisor at the new plant of Sunshine
Mills Inc. in Halifax, Va.

G. ALEXANDER TAFT is a senior associate at
Cambridge Systematics, a transportation con-
sulting firm in Cambridge, Mass.

ROBERT C. VAUGHAN III of Charlottesville,
Va., is the author of The Virginia Statute for
Religious Freedom: Its Evolution and Conse-
quences in American History, which was published
by Cambridge University Press in 1988.

F. EDWARD WOOD JR. of Columbia, Md., is
a senior analyst and program manager with
Energetics Inc., a consulting firm providing energy
planning and analysis support to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Energy and other federal government
agencies. He and his wife, Dee, have one son, Skip,
’91, and two daughters, Kathleen, 7, and Mary
Elizabeth, 4.

JAMES W. ELLIOTT JR., an at-

torney with the Bristol, Va., firm of
White, Elliott & Bundy, is 1988-89 chairman of
the Legal Ethics Committee for the Virginia State
Bar.

P. ROWLAND GREENWADE, operations of-

ficer for the 136th Mobile Aerial Port Squadron,

was recently promoted to lieutenant colonel in the
‘Texas Air National Guard. He lives in Austin.

After 17 years in the investment business,
THOMAS J. HARDIN II now operates A. T. In-
vestment Management Inc. in Charlotte.

PETER L. HEUMANN is vice president of
finance for Williams Mobile Offices in Baltimore.
He lives in Phoenix, Md., with his wife, Rebecca,
and children, Dave, 16, Sarah, 11, and Jon and
Leah, both 8.

J. MCDANIEL (MAC) HOLLADAY is director
of the Department of Economic Development for
the state of Mississippi. He lives in Jackson.

DR. ROBERT L. HOLT recently co-authored
Periodontal and Prosthetic Management for Ad-
vanced Cases, a textbook and atlas on surgical
techniques and dental patient management. Holt
Practics periodontics in West Palm Beach and
Boca Raton, Fla.

DR. RICHARD S. KURZ, associate professor and
chair of the department of hospital and health care
administration at St. Louis University Medical
Center, is associate director of the university’s

Center for Health Services Education and
Research.

H. DAVIS MAYFIELD III
is senior vice president and a
director of I S D Inc. in the
‘ company’s Houston office.
' Inhis new position, Mayfield
_ is responsible for directing
-. Bordelon Design, I S D’s
hotel interiors group, as well
as Contract Purchasing Inc.,
the corporation’s furniture
procurement subsidiary.

STEPHEN T. MCELHANEY was recently nam-
ed a principal of William M. Mercer Meidinger
Hansen, the national employee benefit consulting
firm which he serves as a consulting actuary. He
lives in Richmond.

J. HOLMES MORRISON (See ’63).

DAVID W. OGILVY is manager of the interna-
tional division of Valley National Bank of Arizona
in Phoenix.

CONWAY H. SHEILD III (See ’64).

 

EDWARD L. BISHOP III is

executive vice president and director
of fixed income research and arbitrage operations
at Drexel Burnham Lambert Government
Securities Inc. He was the founder of Arbitrage
Software Inc., the developer of computer-based
analysis and trading programs for institutional fix-
ed income money managers which Drexel Burn-
ham Lambert bought in 1986. A lieutenant col-
onel in the Marine Corps Reserve, he serves as
commanding officer of Attack Squadron 131,
which is based at Naval Air Station Willow Grove
in Pennsylvania.

JEFFREY T. BRIGGS recently joined Chemical
Technologies Corp. as vice president and director
of new business development. The company is a
subsidiary of Chemical Banking Corp. He lives in
Hopewell Junction, N.Y.

N. TAYLOR CARLSON moved from Atlanta to
Boca Raton, Fla., a year ago to join Consolidated
Electric Supply Inc. as vice president of finance
and administration. CES is a division of Willcox
& Gibbs.

ROBERT B. CARTER of Charlottesville, Va., is
serving a second term as president of the Univer-
sity of Virginia chapter of Phi Delta Kappa, a pro-
fessional education organization.

W. BREWSTER COCKRELL, who is employed
with the trust division of Pittsburgh National
Bank, is a member of the Sewickley (Pa.) Zoning
Hearing Board. He and his wife, Susan, have one
son, Peter, 5.

GEORGE E. HONTS III (See ’62).

DR. EDMUND P. (NED) LAWRENCE JR. is
chairman of the department of neurosurgery at St.
Vincent’s Medical Center in Toledo, Ohio. He lives
in Perrysburg with his wife, Morgan Ann, and son,
Max, 13.

While maintaining a private law practice for estate
planning and estate and trust administration,
BARRY J. LEVIN serves as vice president and
senior counsel of Mid-Atlantic Companies Ltd.
The financial, estate, and strategic planning firm
for privately owned businesses and their owners
is based in Mount Laurel, N.J., and has offices
in Manhattan, Bryn Mawr, Pa., Rutherford, N.J.,
and Manasquan, N.J. Levin lives in Bala Cynwyd,
Pa.

While working in the office of the solicitor of the
U.S. Department of the Interior, ROBERT H.

MOLL spent 10 months in 1988 as acting assis-
tant solicitor in the branch of administrative law
and general legal services in the division of general
law. He lives in McLean, Va., with his wife, Vicky,
and son, Timmy.

JOHN R. REYNOLDS, a Nashville, Tenn., at-
torney with Jackson, Tanner & Reynolds,
represents the owners of the minor league baseball
teams in Nashville and Huntsville, Ala. He is a
member of the Sports Lawyers Association and
the Society of American Baseball Research.

DR. DAVID L. RILEY practices radiology in
Concord, N.C., where he lives with his wife,
Elizabeth, and four children.

J. CALVITT CLARKE III is

spending the 1988-89 school year as
visiting assistant professor of history at Cleveland
State University in Ohio. He maintains a home in
Virginia Beach.

JORGE E. ESTRADA MORA’s first film, Under
the Earth, premiered Oct. 5 in New York City. He
lives in Buenos Aires, Argentina, with his wife,
Nancy, and three children, Annie, 7, Carol, 5, and
Juan, 4.

DR. WILLIAM D. FALVEY is medical director
of the emergency department at Baptist Memorial
Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. He was appointed to
the position on Oct. 1.

RICHARD E. KRAMER of New York City took
the year off to complete his doctoral dissertation,
a reconstruction of the major productions of Emily
Mann’s Execution of Justice. He also is doing free-
lance writing and reviewing.

GEORGE L. PATTERSON III is vice president
and manager of the commercial appraisal depart-
ment at Florida Federal Savings and Loan in St.
Petersburg, Fla.

MICHAEL W. PUSTAY, professor of manage-
ment at Texas A&M University, was recently nam-
ed director of research for the institution’s Center
for International Business Studies. He lives in
Bryan with his wife, Zandra, and children, Scott,
10, and Katherine, 6.

DR. JOHN G. SIMMONS is an otolaryngologist
in Jasper, Ala., where he lives with his wife, Rene,
and children, Sarah and John Terry.

DR. THOMAS K. SLABAUGH of Lexington,
Ky., is president of the Fayette County Medical
Society and secretary-treasurer of HealthWise, a
local organization.

DAVID H. STOVALL JR. has been named ex-
ecutive vice president and supervising partner of
the Charlotte group of Belk stores. He was
previously senior vice president, merchandising
and sales promotion, for the 13-store group. He
lives in Charlotte with his wife, Deborah, and
children, Courtney, David, and Nathan.

The Texas Board of Legal Specialization, a branch
of the State Bar of Texas, recently certified R.
ALAN TOMLIN as a specialist in commercial real
estate law. He practices in Houston.

ADDISON G. (JOE) WILSON of Columbia,
S.C., was re-elected Nov. 8 to the state senate with
84 percent of the vote, the highest percentage and
largest number of votes for any contested race for
senate in South Carolina.

J. DONALD CHILDRESS (See Lan-
don R. Wyatt III, ’79).

Wa&L. . 35

 

 

 

A Rose Is A Rose

A rose by any other name might smell as sweet. But would there be quite as much
excitement about, say, the yellow cabbage of Texas?

Just ask Upton Beall, ’51. Beall was president of the 1988 Texas Rose Festival,
a gala event held every October in Tyler.

After serving for several years on the festival’s executive committee, Beall was
elected president during a meeting of the Texas Rose Festival Association in December
1987. By that time, he had already begun working on any number of projects, which
included selecting the Rose Queen and her court, coordinating such varied events
as a parade and a queen’s tea, and worrying about the weather.

‘‘The festival is unique,’’ Beall told the Tyler Courier-Times Telegraph. ‘‘If it’s
not Tyler’s best foot forward, it is certainly one of them.’’

 

 

STUART C. FAUBER was recently promoted to
senior vice president of the commercial division
at Crestar Bank in Lynchburg, Va. He supervises
the servicing, structuring, and implementation of
complex credit facilities and coordinates other
financial services for the bank’s larger commer-
cial accounts. He and his wife, Beth, have two
daughters, Julie and Hilleary.

LENARD M. PARKINS is senior partner of the
Houston law firm of Sheinfeld, Maloy & Kay.

DR. BRUCE S. SAMUELS of New Orleans
recently opened a third office and hired a third
associate for his practice of internal medicine.

In October MICHAEL T. (THUNDER) THORN-
TON became a name partner in his Atlanta law
firm, now known as Dennis, Corry, Porter, Thorn-
ton & McGlamry. The firm’s practice emphasizes
insurance defense litigation, and Thornton’s
specialty is representing professionals in errors and
omissions lawsuits.

San Antonio, Texas, attorney and

certified public accountant TAYLOR
S. BOONE is certified in estate planning and pro-
bate. He is president of the San Antonio hospice
and a member of the board of Southwest Texas
Methodist Hospital. He and his wife, Alison, have
two daughters, Catherine, 5, and Virginia, 1.

NELSON F. BRINCKERHOFF, an attorney from
East Greenwich, R.I., was recently elected to town
council.

WILLIAM P. CANBY is senior vice president and
manager of the national division at Trust Com-
pany Bank in Atlanta.

In December the American
Institute of Real Estate Ap-
ed praisers designated JOEL A.
4 FULMER IV a member of

“ss =—S—té‘téwtee:«SA=—ppprrasl§=éInstitute.
» / _—s Fulmer is vice president of

id Boyle Investment Co. in

Memphis, Tenn.
Charlotte attorney HENRY A. HARKEY is a
director of Alexander Children’s Center and
Children’s Theatre of Charlotte. He recently
finished terms as president of the Law Alumni
Association of Wake Forest University and as
chairman of the board-of Double Oaks Nursery.

DR. E. WREN HUDGINS, a psychologist in the
Seattle area, was recently elected president of the
Washington State Psychological Association for
the term beginning in 1991. He lives in Issaquah

36 =—W&L

pe

 

with his wife, Leigh, and two sons, Alex, 5, and
Craig, 8.

Having received a master of science degree in
management from the University of Arkansas in
May, G. LEE MILLAR III is currently a computer
applications manager at Union Planters National
Bank in Memphis, Tenn. He plays and coaches
soccer and recently led the adult team to its fourth
consecutive state championship. The team won se-
cond place in the national invitational tournament
in Dallas.

ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE is senior manager of
engineering and scientific application software at
Prime Computer in Natick, Mass.

Former U.S. Senator PAUL S. TRIBLE JR. has
joined the law firm of Shuttleworth, Ruloff, Gior-
dano, and Kahle as of counsel to the firm. He joins
three other W&L alumni in the firm, which has
offices in Virginia Beach and Newport News, Va.
THOMAS B. SHUTTLEWORTH, ’73L,
specializes in personal injury, products liability,
and medical malpractice litigation. ROBERT E.
RULOFF, ’73L, focuses his practice on real estate
development, while ROBERT G. MORECOCK,
’78L, specializes in personal injury and criminal
litigation.

After 12 years on the corporate legal

staff of McDonald’s Corp., IRA S.
FELDMAN was recently promoted to department
director. He lives in Arlington Heights, IIl., with
his wife, Gayle, and children, Blair, 16, Eric, 13,
and Adam, 9.

STEWART M. HURTT (See ’65).

In a White House ceremony Sept. 29, JOHN H.
KECK of Laredo, Texas, accepted the Presiden-
tial Award for Private Sector Initiatives on behalf
of Union National Bank of Laredo. President
Reagan presented the award to the bank for its
work in helping to revive Laredo’s economy and
spirit during the economic downturn that began
in 1982 when oil prices fell and the value of Mex-
ico’s peso dropped, cutting Mexicans’ trade in the
border city. Keck is president and chief executive
officer of Union National Bank.

JAMES S. MCCANE is director of marketing for
Maritz Travel Co., creating and selling incentive
travel programs. He lives in Kirkwood, Mo., with
his wife, Elizabeth, and sons, Mike and Jesse.

DONALD T. MCMILLAN is in charge of the Los
Angeles office of his law firm Rivkin, Radler,
Dunne & Bayh. He and his wife, Jackie, are liv-
ing in Santa Monica, Calif.

In July JOHN A. PARKINS JR. became a part-
ner in his Wilmington, Del., law firm Richards,
Layton & Finger. He and his wife, Sandra, live
in Newark.

STEPHEN W. ROBINSON, a partner in the
Washington, D.C., office of McGuire, Woods,
Battle & Boothe, focuses his practice on employ-
ment litigation. He has won the Virginia Bar
Association mixed doubles tennis tournament three
of the past six years.

While maintaining a trial law practice in
Philadelphia and the surrounding counties,
ROBERT B. SCHATZ exhibits and sells his art
work in the city and in New Hope, Pa., where he
spends his weekends.

GEORGE E. CALVERT JR. joined

the Richmond office of Central
Fidelity Bank in July. His specialty is municipal
and industrial revenue bond finance.

JAMES P. DI FORIO JR. of Westlake Village,
Calif., is vice president of planning and business
development with the Harbor and Pacific In-
surance Cos., a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Continental Insurance Cos. He writes specialty
liability coverages.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER works at IBM’s
customer center in the Dallas/Fort Worth area.
He coordinates the marketing programs of IBM’s
business partners. He and his wife, Mary, live in
Bedford, where Hollinger is an officer in a local
bicycle racing club.

The Louisiana Supreme Court has appointed T.
HALLER JACKSON III to the Louisiana State
Bar Association Ethics Committee for a five-year
term. Jackson practices law in Shreveport, where
he recently completed a term as president of the
metro board of directors of the YMCA.

WILLIAM H. MCILHANY II of Beverly Hills,
Calif., is director of research for Financial Broad-
casting Network. He spent the summer as a staff
writer for the Newhall Signal in Valencia, Calif.

WILLIAM D. MILLER is construction manager
in the university architect’s office at the Universi-
ty of Chicago.

J. RIDGLEY PORTER III (See Conway H. Sheild
III, ’64).

As executive assistant to the chief of the Shreveport
Police Department, ALAN J. PRATER is respon-
sible for all aspects of the department’s administra-
tion. He recently moved to Shreveport with his
wife, Valerie, after serving as head of the plan-
ning and research unit at the Roanoke, Va., Police
Department.

ROBERT E. RULOFF (See Paul S. Trible Jr.,
71).

THOMAS B. SHUTTLEWORTH (See Paul S.
Trible Jr., ’71).

THE REV. JACK E. ALTMAN III

is chaplain at St. Paul’s School in
Baltimore and of Old St. Paul’s Parish, the mother
parish of Maryland, established in 1692. He lives
in Lutherville.

JEFFREY D. BURKE is assistant vice president
and controller at St. Mary’s Hospital in Richmond.

RUSSELL W. CHAMBLISS is president and chief
executive officer of Mason Corp., the Birm-
ingham, Ala., manufacturer of aluminum and steel
building products for home improvement and light

commercial industry. He joined the company in
1977.

C. DEAN FOSTER JR., county attorney for Scott
County, Va., is the 1988-89 president of the Local
Government Attorneys of Virginia.

Having served as assistant U.S. attorney in the
western district of Virginia, THOMAS R. KING
JR. was recently appointed administrative law
judge with the Social Security Administration in
Roanoke. He and his wife, Carolyn, have three
children and live in Salem.

JOEL L. LEGIN is company secretary of Airship
Industries Inc. in London, where he lives with his
wife, Janice, and daughter.

DR. MICHAEL D. PEPPLER and four col-
leagues recently opened Norfolk Psychiatric
Associates in Norfolk, Va.

PAUL W. PERKINS is managing director in the
realty investment group of Shearson Lehman Hut-
ton in New York City, where he lives with his wife,
Vibeke, and son, Nicholas, 2.

DR. CHARLES W. (BUCKY) PINNELL III
practices at Chesapeake General Hospital in
Chesapeake, Va., and at three area offices. He and
his wife, Mary Warren, have one son, Wellford.

JAMES G. ROGERS, director of planned giving
at Eastern College in St. Davids, Pa., is president
of the Pennsylvania Lupus Foundation.

J. KENNETH WOOD is partner in charge of the
tax department at the Richmond office of Peat
Marwick Main & Co. He lives in Doswell, Va.,
with his wife, Alecia, and daughter, Lindsay.

A former associate editor of Armed

Forces Journal, MILLARD I.
BARGER is now a defense analyst at BDM Corp.
in McLean, Va. He lives in Silver Spring, Md.

ROBERT H. CRAWFORD recently moved to San
Jose, Calif., where he is in production control with
VLSI Technology, a manufacturer of application
specific integrated circuits.

After six years in Saudi Arabia working on a ma-
jor construction project with Blount International,
WILSON B. FOLMER has moved to Mont-
gomery, Ala., where he is pursuing a degree in civil
engineering from Auburn University.

W. DAVID LAWSON IV is vice president in
mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co. in New York City, where he lives with
his wife, Connie, and daughter, Charlotte, 1.

DONALD T. MCMILLAN (See ’72).
STEPHEN W. ROBINSON (See ’72).

PERRY W. BARTSCH JR. is presi-

dent of A & B Construction &
Development Corp., an unlimited general contrac-
tor based in Asheville, N.C.

MARC R. CHIMES, an employee of Nordlinger
Associates in Washington, D.C., was political con-
sultant for six winning Democratic congressional
Campaigns last year.

LEE B. DANIEL recently received his master of
business administration degree from Virginia Com-
monwealth University and serves as the support
Cost analyst for E.1. Dupont de Nemours. He lives
In Richmond with his wife, Kay, and two children.

DOUGLAS M. FARIS is senior vice president in
the Charlotte office of Binswanger Southern Co.

and is responsible for operations in Virginia and
North Carolina.

JAMES C. GOULD is staff director and chief
counsel of the Senate Finance Committee.

JOHN L. GRAY JR. is vice president of
marketing for RTM Inc., a franchise of Arby’s
with 191 restaurants in 10 states. Gray lives in
Atlanta.

CURTIS F. (MONTY) HIGGINS JR., director of
finance for the City of Staunton, Va., was awarded
his third consecutive certificate of achievement for
excellence in financial reporting from the Govern-
mental Finance Officer Association. The award
is the state’s highest form of recognition in govern-
mental accounting and financial reporting. He
recently moved to Staunton with his family.

JOHN H. (JAY) KERSHAW is a salesman with
Ridge Lumber Co. in Baltimore, where he lives
with his wife, Susan, and daughter, Leah.

BRIAN M. LEVINE is studying to be an Anglican
Catholic priest at Holyrood Seminary in Liberty,
N.Y.

WALTER S. ROBERTSON III is a director of
Assurex International, an insurance and risk
management services corporation based in Colum-
bus, Ohio, and owned by 65 regional insurance
agencies worldwide. Robertson is a vice president
at DeJarnette & Paul Inc., a property and casual-
ty insurance agency in Richmond.

Having served 10 years in the U.S. Army Chemical
Corps, CAPT. ROBERT F. SEARLES is a first-
year medical student at Southeastern College of
Osteopathic Medicine in North Miami Beach, Fla.
He received a four-year scholarship through the
Army and hopes to finish his next 10 years of ser-
vice in the Medical Corps.

STEPHEN P. SETTLAGE has been named chair-
man, president, and chief executive officer of
Rowe Development Co. Settlage joined the real
estate development firm in 1986 and had been ex-
ecutive vice president and chief operating officer.

CHRISTOPHER A. CASCONE is

pursuing a master’s degree in
theological studies from United Theological
Seminary while serving as a full-time pastor in the
area. He and his wife, Sandy, have three children,
including twin 3-year-old boys.

MICHAEL E. FORRY left Security Pacific Na-
tional Bank in December to join the Rockville,
Md., office of Equitable Bank as vice president
of real estate lending.

After leaving Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in
March 1988 with three colleagues with the goal of
turning around the corporate finance business of
L. F. Rothschild, CHRISTOPHER A. JOHNSON
is now a principal in the corporate finance and
merchant banking group. He lives in Bronxville,
N.Y.

While serving the commercial and industrial real
estate firm W. C. Pinkard & Co. as an agent,
STUART S. RIENHOFF is enrolled in the master
of business administration night program at the
University of Baltimore.

WILLIAM H. SANDS and his wife, Julie, work
for Rheinauers, a Florida-based chain of special-
ty stores. The couple lives in Winter Haven, Fla.

DR. EARL W. STRADTMAN JR. is pursuing a
fellowship in reproductive endocrinology at the
Medical College of Georgia in Augusta, where he
lives with his wife, Celia.

CLARK G. THOMPSON JR. recently joined the
Houston office of Bracewell & Patterson, a
180-person law firm with offices in Austin, Texas,
Washington, D.C., and London. Thompson is a
partner and concentrates his practice on real estate
development and finance.

Having served the U.S. Department of Justice for
five years, GREGORY S. WALDEN left in May
to become chief counsel of the Federal Aviation
Administration. As chief counsel, he manages and
supervises a staff of 150 lawyers in Washington
and around the country. Walden is also a govern-
ment representative of the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States. He lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

PAMELA J. WHITE was recently elected presi-
dent of the Women’s Bar Association of Maryland
for the 1989-90 term. She practices with the
Baltimore firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes & Shriver.

JAMES N. WOHLFARTH recently moved from
Saugus, Calif., to Germantown, Md., to join
Wohlfarth Construction Firm.

In June STEPHEN C. YEVICH became controller
for Michaels Stores Inc., a retailer of arts and
crafts supplies with 105 stores in 14 states. Yevich
is employed at the company’s headquarters in
Dallas.

Having received a doctorate in

kinesiology from the University of
Michigan, M. DANIEL BECQUE is doing
postdoctoral research at the University of
Massachusetts. He lives in Amherst with his wife,
Frances.

DAVID G. FRANKLIN was recently elected presi-
dent and director of NCNB Texas Venture Group
Inc., an affiliate of NCNB Texas National Bank
which is based in Dallas and focuses on venture
capital investments in emerging companies. NCNB
Texas Venture Group has $75 million invested in
100 companies.

After completing a residency in orthopedic surgery
in Chattanooga, Tenn., DR. D. MARSHALL
JEMISON will move to Indianapolis for a one-
year fellowship in hand surgery.

MICHAEL J. MISSAL specializes in securities
and litigation with Kirkpatrick & Lockhart, a
Washington, D.C., law firm.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK (See Paul S. Trible
Sig tis

CURTIS E. STEWART is a certified public ac-
countant in the Atlanta area, where he lives with
his wife, Rhoda, and children, Christopher
Eugene, 5, and Raven Ivory, 3.

MICHAEL T. (THUNDER) THORNTON (See
*70).

Having completed a residency in obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of Maryland Hospital
in June, DR. BRIAN P. TRAY practices private-
ly in Baltimore.

JAMES O. DAVIS III, an attorney
with the Tampa, Fla., law firm of
Bush, Ross, Gardner, Warren & Rudy, was recent-
ly elected to the Florida House of Representatives
as a Democrat. He lives in Tampa with his wife,

Peggy.

DAVID A. (MONK) HAMRA is assistant vice
president of The Vanguard Group of Investment

W&L 37

Cos. He lives in West Chester, Pa., with his wife,
Diane, and two children, Sarah, 4, and Josh, 1.

FERDINAND B. (WIN) HARRINGTON recently
presented a paper to the National Marine Elec-
tronics Association in Boston on the use of token
ring networks on large ships. His Charlottesville,
Va., company, Sperry Marine, will install networks
on eight Italian ships in 1989.

GORDON L. HOUGH JR. is a vice president with
Barclays Bank in New York City and is responsi-
ble for export and international project finance.
He lives in Rowayton, Conn., with his wife, Holly.

C. STEPHEN JONES JR. is human resource
manager for the United States division of Knorr-
Best Foods in Asheboro, N.C. Knorr-Best Foods
is a subsidiary of CPC International Inc., an in-
ternational marketer, producer, and distributor of
branded grocery food products.

J. WILLIAM PIERCE JR. was recently made a

partner at the Memphis, Tenn., law firm of -

Glankler, Brown, Gilliland, Chase, Robinson &
Raines.

LLOYD E. SPEAR formed the law firm Spear &
Douglas with two other attorneys on Jan. 1. The
general civil practice and litigation firm has offices
in Greenup and Vanceburg, Ky., where Spear lives.

Having completed a general surgical residency at
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., DR.
WILLIAM M. STONE is now a fellow in vascular
surgery at Massachusetts General Hospital. He
lives in Weston with his wife, Elizabeth, and
children, 3-year-old Andrew Gunter and 2-year-
old Jonathan Burns.

BRUCE H. VAIL serves as an editor on the
maritime desk for The Journal of Commerce, the
leading newspaper in the United States in the fields
of trade and transportation. Vail lives in New York
City with his wife, Carol Taylor.

CHRISTOPHER WOLF recently became a part-
ner in the Washington, D.C., office of Ballard,
Spahr, Andrews & Ingersoll. He devotes his free
time to the board of the National Symphony.

Along with six other Trammell Crow Co. partners
(including J. DONALD CHILDRESS, ’70, of
Atlanta), LANDON R. WYATT III of Charlotte
has left the company to form Childress Klein Pro-
perties. The new company has offices in Atlanta,
Richmond, and Charlotte.

GEORGE D. (CHIP) ARNOLD III

is director of finance for Hamilton
Productions Inc. in Washington, D.C. The com-
pany produces the Public Broadcasting Service
newsmagazine ‘‘Watch on Washington.”’

JEAN L. BAXTER is serving a term as assistant
city judge in Glendale, Ariz. The term began Nov.
28 and ends June 1, 1990. Baxter had been a staff
attorney for Community Legal Services in Phoenix
since December 1985.

ABNEY S. BOXLEY III of Roanoke was elected
president of W. W. Boxley Co. in May.

LT. ROBERT B. EARLE was one of 50 U.S.
ROTC officers who participated in the 1988
NATO Military Competition at the Royal Military
Academy in Sandhurst, England, in July. Earle
is a first-year student at Harvard Business School.

FLETCHER W. HARKRADER III and his
brother CLYDE M. B. HARKRADER, ’82, have
formed the general practice law firm of Harkrader
& Harkrader in Louisa, Va.

38 =| W&L

SUSAN Y. MILLER is assistant U.S. trustee with
the U.S. Department of Justice in South Bend,
Ind.

The Dallas office of Sotheby International Real-
ty recently honored DAVIDSON A. PERRY-
MILLER for selling $10 million in real estate in
a six-month period in 1988.

ALAN J. PRATER (See ’73).

J. KELLY RYAN is an attorney with the Fort
Worth, Texas, law firm of Cantey & Hanger.

THOMAS R. SALLEY III is assistant general
counsel for Allied Capital Corp. in Washington,
D.C. Allied Capital, one of the nation’s oldest and
largest venture capital firms, began its venture
capital operations in 1958.

HERBERT G. SMITH II is an attorney in the con-
struction litigation department in the McLean,
Va., office of Venable, Baetjer & Howard.

Covington, Va., attorney EDWARD K. STEIN
is a member of the advisory board for the Clifton
Forge and Covington offices of CorEast Savings
Bank. He is a partner in the law firm Alderson
& Stein with JAMES C. ALDERSON, ’80L. Stein
is also a member of the Alleghany Highlands
Chamber of Commerce, the Covington Retail
Merchants Association, and the Covington
Kiwanis Club.

JESSE F. SUBER is an associate with Henry,
Buchanan, Mick & English in Tallahassee, Fla.,
where he lives with his wife, Catherine.

MICHAEL R. TESTERMAN practices with the
law firm of Greene & Curtis in Springfield, Mo.
His area of concentration is civil litigation and
business matters.

After four years as assistant state at-

torney in Jacksonville, Fla., HOMER
A. BLISS has joined the private practice of Robert
W. Elrod. He specializes in criminal and domestic
law in Jacksonville, where he lives with his wife,
Cathryn.

J. DAVID DONAHEY JR. is vice president of the
fixed income division of Goldman Sachs & Co.
in Chicago.

BENNETT N. EASTON began teaching second
graders in September in a private elementary
school in Bel Air, Calif. Over the summer, he
helped Fly America, a cross-country hang gliding
expedition, make the first leg of a record-breaking
trip from Los Angeles to Kitty Hawk, N.C.

Having left the U.S. Naval Submarine Force with
the rank of lieutenant, CHRISTOPHER H.
GREATWOOD is now an employee of the
Raytheon Co. in New Hampshire. He lives in
Derry with his wife, Katherine.

DAVID H. JOHNSON of Savannah, Ga., is a
partner in the law firm of McCorkle, Pedigo,
Hunter & Johnson.

CAPT. JOHN K. SCHMIDT recently earned the
Army Commendation Medal for his research and
development of avionics for future army rotary-
wing cockpits. Schmidt lives in Beleamp, Md.

MARK W. SCULLY is pursuing a master of in-
ternational relations degree from Johns Hopkins
University in Washington, D.C.

MELISSA J. WARNER, who is associated with
the Roanoke law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes
& Moore, is the firm’s first part-time attorney.

Working four days a week, she specializes in ap-
pellate cases. She lives in Roanoke with her son,
Matthew, 3.

Having recently earned a master of business ad-
ministration degree from Duke University, MARK
A. WILLIAMS is now assistant city attorney for
the city of Roanoke. He and his wife, Donna, have
a l-year-old son, Adam.

WILLIAM G. BENSON is a certified
public accountant with Keefe,
McCullough & Co. in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

PAUL M. BLACK is an associate with the Rich-
mond law firm of Mays & Valentine, where he
practices general civil and bankruptcy litigation.

EARLE W. (DERBY) DAVID is vice president of
real estate acquisitions in the Austin, Texas, of-
fice of Cushman & Wakefield of Texas. The com-
pany owns and operates several state automotive
inspection centers in Houston called Sticker Stop.

WILLIAM A. DUPRE IV is an associate with the
law firm of Hine & Carroll in Rome, Ga.

DR. F. BRIAN GIBSON, a resident in
otolaryngology at the University of Texas Medical
Branch, lives in Galveston with his wife, Mary,
and son, William Taylor, 1.

CLYDE M. B. HARKRADER (See Fletcher W.
Harkrader, ’80).

DAVID E. JENSEN is assistant controller/officer
for Framingham Savings Bank in Framingham,
Mass.

ERIC T. MYERS has left his tax law practice with
the Washington, D.C., office of Baker & McKen-
zie and is now clerk to the Hon. Jules G. Korner
III of the U.S. Tax Court in Washington.

JOSEPH A. PALETTA practices law both
privately and with the public defender’s office in
Pittsburgh.

ROBERT K. WITTPENN is vice president at
Rockland Chemical Co. Inc. in West Caldwell,
N.J.

Having earned a law degree from the

University of South Carolina in May,
MARK W. BUYCK III is now an associate in the
Florence, S.C., law firm of Willcox, Hardee,
McLeod, Buyck, Baker & Williams.

ERIC R. FIFE of Denver, Colo., is senior staff
writer for Quark Inc., a manufacturer of
publishing software for Macintosh computers.

DR. STEPHEN P. GEARY is a resident in or-
thopedic surgery at Ochsuer Clinic in New Orleans.

After earning a law degree from the University of
Virginia in May, STEPHEN K. GREENE ac-
cepted a position with Bradley, Arant, Rose &
White in Birmingham, Ala.

THEODORE F. LOPER is international counsel
with Les Mutuelles du Mans, a French insurance
group in Les Mans Cedex, France.

MICHAEL E. (DR. NO) NOGAY defeated eight
other candidates, including a two-term incumbent,
for a seat on the Hancock County, W.Va., Board
of Education. He lives in Weirton with his wife,
Robin, and is a partner in the five-attorney firm
of Sellitti & Nogay.

HERBERT G. SMITH II (See ’80).

H. POWELL STARKS is an associate in the cor-
porate section of Brown, Todd & Heyburn in

Louisville, Ky.

BRUCE E. WENNERHOLM is an account ex-
ecutive for the NPD Group, a market research firm
based in Port Washington, N.Y. He lives in
Woodside.

DAVID C. ADAMS is employed

with The Cambridge Group, a
commercial real estate company which specializes
in business brokerage. He lives in Dorset, Vt., with
his wife, Kate.

CHARLES W. ALCORN III received a master of
arts degree in creative writing from the Universi-
ty of Southern Mississippi in December and is cur-
rently a freshman composition instructor at USM.
He is working on a novel, tentatively titled

Clipped.

After working as a tennis professional at Wild
Dunes Resort in Charleston, S.C., CRAIG J.
CANNON is now a law student at the University
of Florida.

THOMAS L. H. COCKE is a copywriter with
Tracy-Locke in Atlanta.

JACK R. DENT is senior mortgage loan officer
at South Carolina Federal Savings Bank in
Columbia.

DWIGHT H. EMANUELSON JR. is employed
with Merrill Lynch & Co. in Dallas, where he lives
with his wife, Claire.

In August JAMES L. GREEN became assistant
vice president-trust of the State College, Pa., of-
fice of Mellon Bank. He is a member of the Penn-
sylvania, Virginia, Illinois, and Florida bar
associations.

IST LT. DAVID R. HERR JR. is stationed in
Okinawa, Japan, where he flies UH-IN helicopters
attached to Marine Light Attack Helicopter 369.

JAMES N. L. HUMPHREYS practices civil litiga-
tion in the Abingdon, Va., office of Penn, Stuart,
Eskridge & Jones, where he focuses on insurance
defense.

Having earned a doctorate in medicine from the
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
DR. KEITH T. KADESKY is now a resident in
general surgery at Parkland Hospital in Dallas.
After two years, he will become a resident in
urology.

After returning to the United States after three
years as an infantry officer in the 3rd Armored
Division in West Germany, MALCOLM C. KEN-
DALL attended the infantry officer advanced
course at Fort Benning, Ga., was promoted to cap-

tain, and then completed the special forces assess-
ment and selection course at Fort Bragg, N.C. He
is stationed in Fort Bragg.

JOHN L. MCCANTS of Columbia, S.C., is an
associate lawyer with Adams, Quackenbush, Her-
rins & Stuart.

LAURIE A. RACHFORD is an associate at the
law firm of Jenkens & Gilchrist in Houston.

W. REGINALD RAMPONE is pursuing a
master’s degree in English literature at Brown
University. He specializes in the Renaissance
period.

DONALD W. RICHARDSON specializes in
hydrogeology as project manager for the Denville,
N.J., consulting firm of GeoEngineering Inc.

PARKER B. SCHENECKER, who is stationed in
Munich, West Germany, with the U.S. Army, was
recently promoted to the rank of captain.

IST LT. DONALD B. (SHARK) SMITH
graduated from the Air Defense Artillery Officers
Advanced Course at Fort Bliss, Texas, in
November and is now in airborne training at Fort
Benning, Ga. He will then be assigned to the 2nd
Battalion in South Korea.

LEVER F. STEWART III of Charlottesville, Va.,
has been appointed general counsel for Rock-Tenn
Co., a national paperboard and packaging
company.

Having earned a master of science degree in cell
biology in May from Virginia Commonwealth
University, THOMAS M. T. TURK is now a first-
year medical student at the Medical College of
Virginia in Richmond.

As an employee of Montrose Capital Corp. in
Durham, N.C., WARREN B. WATKINS III is
involved in real estate development and financial
management and the acquisition of companies.

T. JEFFREY WELLS is assistant public defender
in Richmond. He is a court-appointed attorney for
youths.

MICHAEL S. WYATT recently joined Cushman
and Wakefield of Texas Inc. in the real estate
firm’s Dallas office.

PAUL-MARIE T. ARPAIA is

pursuing a diploma di perfe-
zionamento in Italian history on a three-year
fellowship at Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa,
Italy.

LT. J.G. PAUL A. CASEY is on a second six-
month tour of duty in the Mediterranean as a sup-
ply officer aboard the USS Nashville.

After three years as a U.S. history teacher and dor-
mitory supervisor at The Asheville School in
western North Carolina, THEODORE C.

 

After several years of preparation and training, G. David Low, ’78, will finally
have his chance to fly in the space shuttle.

Low, an astronaut at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, has been assigned
to fly on the Columbia on its STS-32 mission, which will be launched on Nov. 13.
The mission will deploy a communications satellite and then retrieve a scientific satellite

that has been in orbit for five years.

| Low was selected for the shuttle training program in 1984.

Low to Fly in Space Shuttle

 

 

DELANEY is now enrolled in the American
history graduate program at the College of William
and Mary in Williamsburg, Va.

JOHN A. DIDURO is a logistics engineer for
Newport News Shipbuilders in Newport News,
Va., where he lives with his wife, Renee.

TERRANCE J. DUNN is an associate lawyer with
Fralin, Freeman & Kinnier in Lynchburg, Va.

RICHARD C. EMREY JR. is an agent with
Barger Insurance in Lexington, Va., where he
specializes in commercial property and casualty in-
surance. He lives in Lexington with his wife,
Karen.

After a year of law school at Vanderbilt Univer-
sity, DAVID A. EUSTIS transferred to Trinity
College in Cambridge, England.

Having completed his infantry training course at
Fort Benning, Ga., ANDREW D. FARLEY
moved to Houston, where he is an associate with
the firm of Hutcheson & Grundy.

THOMAS A. FITZGERALD II is an associate
with the law firm of West, Stein, West & Smith
in Newport News, Va.

CHARLES M. MARTIN JR. practices litigation
for the law offices of Michael R. Cooper in Dallas,
where he lives with his wife, Tricia.

Although continuing work as a part-time computer
programmer for Unisys Corp. at the
NASA/Langely Research Center in Hampton,
Va., CLARKE H. MORLEDGE is a full-time
staff member with Young Life, an organization
that seeks to teach high school students about the
Christian faith.

DOUGLAS A. RAINES is a tax specialist with GE
Capital in Stamford, Conn.

Upon completing a judicial clerkship, ROBERT
W. RAY of Uniondale, N.Y., is now an assistant
U.S. attorney in the southern district of New York.

A May 1988 graduate of the University of Houston
Law Center, DANIEL L. TATUM is an associate
in the Fort Worth, Texas, firm of Cantey &
Hanger. In September he will become a judicial
clerk for the U.S. District Court in the northern
district of Texas. He and his wife, Melanie, live
in Fort Worth.

DON E. WINEBERG practices health law in
Boston. He lives in Rhode Island.

MICHAEL W. ADAMS is an opera-

tions analyst at the corporate head-
quarters of Ferguson Enterprises in Newport
News, Va.

ROBERT J. BROWN develops government soft-
ware in the Washington, D.C., area.

JOHN P. CASE III recently transferred from
NCNB’s Real Estate Lending Group in Tampa,
Fla., to the bank’s real estate office in Atlanta.

BRUCE L. CASTOR JR., an assistant district at-
torney in Montgomery County, Pa., is captain in
charge of the major crimes unit at the trials divi-
sion. He has an active caseload of approximately
250 cases.

WILLIAM A. DUPRE IV (See ’82).

Having earned a master of engineering degree in
chemical engineering from the University of
Virginia in May, BRYON T. EPPLEY is a plastics
engineer for AMP Inc. He lives in Marysville, Pa.

W&L 39

Steve Yeakel, ’78, has been appointed
chief of staff for the governor of
Montana.

He moved into the post after having
served as campaign
manager for Repub-
lican Stan Stephens’
successful bid for the
governorship.

**Having the op-
portunity to be so
deeply involved with
improving on Mon-
tana’s tremendous quality of life is a
tremendous opportunity, and it’s a very,
very serious responsibility,’’ Yeakel told
the Great Falls Tribune after the appoint-

 

 

Yeakel named to top post

ment was announced. ‘‘And I’m going to
treat it as such.’’

Yeakel moved to Montana in 1983,
when he was named executive director of
the state Republican party. During his
four years in that office, the party won
the governorship for the first time since
1964 and a U.S. Senate seat for the first
time since 1946.

‘*T think he’s the finest thing that ever
came into the state of Montana as far as
an organizational man and a political
whiz,”’ said state GOP chairman John
Brenden. ‘‘I just can’t say enough good
about Steve.’’

Yeakel and his wife, Beth, have two
children, Katherine and Joe.

 

 

EVAN M. FOULKE, a second-year law student
at Albany Law School of Union College, was in-
vited to join the A/bany Law Review in July. The
honor was bestowed upon the top 10 percent of
the class.

After a year and a half as a copy editor on the ci-
ty desk of the Tampa Tribune, PAUL R.
FOUTCH is now a copy editor on the city desk
of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Foutch lives
in Kennesaw, Ga.

P. RICHARD HAMED JR. is Midwest territory
manager for Disogrin Industries in Apple Valley,
Minn.

JOHN F. (RUSTY) HARTLEY JR. is in cor-
porate banking with Manufacturers Hanover in
Los Angeles.

BOURKE C. HARVEY is working in Fort Worth,
Texas, with Harvey Properties, a commercial real
estate company.

JAMES L. HAYNE JR. is a trainee in the pro-
fessional liability group of Marsh and McLennan
Worldwide in New York City. He shares an apart-
ment with A. Judson Ellis Jr., ’86, John K. Hud-
son Jr., ’87, and Scott H. Jung, 787.

WILLIAM RUSHING HEMPHILL JR. is a first-
year student at Southern Methodist University
School of Law in Dallas.

LEE M. HOLLIS covers the Memphis, Tenn.,
market as a commercial banking officer for First
Union National Bank in Nashville.

This fall CHRISTOPHER R. HOPE was a par-
ticipant in the Bud Light Endurance Triathlon, the
National Ultra-Distance Championship, in Cape
Cod. He finished the 2.4-mile swim, the 112-mile
bike ride, and the 26.2-mile run in just under 12
hours. Hope lives in Norfolk, Va.

JANNA P. JOHNSON practices law at the New
Canaan, Conn., office of Rucci, Gruss, Jex &
Gleason. She specializes in residential and com-
mercial real estate.

LESTER K. JOHNSON is a second-year medical
student in the joint M.D. and Ph.D. program at

40 W&L

Columbia University’s College of Physicians and
Surgeons in New York City.

DAVID D. LEWIS is a second-year medical stu-
dent at the University of Virginia.

JEANNETTE M. MCALLISTER practices
bankruptcy and commercial litigation with Butler
& Binion in Houston.

WILLIAM A. MICHAUD is pursuing a master’s
degree in applied molecular biology at the Univer-
sity of Maryland in Baltimore County. He and
John P. Coleman, ’85, share a residence in
Baltimore.

BARBARA L. MORRIS is associated with the law
firm of Wildman, Harrold, Allen, Dixon &
McDonnell in Memphis, Tenn.

W. PRICE POLLARD is sales manager of the
southern and western Virginia territory for Virginia
Industrial Sales in Richmond.

WILLIAM S. W. RUSH covers the Maryland,
Washington, D.C., Delaware, and Virginia regions
as a representative of Metts-Rupp Inc., the
wholesaler of sporting goods which is based in
Tampa, Fla. Rush lives in Phoenix, Md.

JOHN D. TEMPLETON is a business service of-
ficer with Branch Banking and Trust Co. in Wil-
mington, N.C.

MICHAEL WEINSIER practices corporate law
with the firm of Parker, Chapin, Flattau & Klimpl
in New York City.

JOSEPH G. WHELAN III, a third-year medical
student at the University of Kentucky in Lex-
ington, conducts research on in vitro fertilization
for the obstetrics and gynecology department. He
also works with a local rock band in recording a
self-produced album.

C. HARRIS WHITE is a first-year student in the
master of business administration program at
Vanderbilt University’s Owen Graduate School of
Management.

ELIZABETH KENNEDY BLACK-
STONE works in Washington, D.C..,
for Sen. Jim Sasser of Tennessee.

VIRGINIA G. CARRUTHERS, an attorney with
the Birmingham, Ala., firm of Maynard, Cooper,
Frierson & Gale, is a member of the executive com-
mittee of the Birmingham Young Lawyers
Association.

EDWARD M. GRAHAM practices litigation in
Chicago with Chadwell & Kayser Ltd.

DAVID G. HAMMOND practices energy and real
property law with the law firm of Spilman,
Thomas, Battle & Klustermeyer in Charleston,
W.Va.

DAVID M. HIRSBERG has joined the Cincinnati-
based law firm of Dinsmore & Shohl as an
associate. He practices in the area of tax law.

JAMES N. L. HUMPHREYS (See 84).

JAMES F. KELLY works in New York City for
Matthew Bender, a law book publishing company.
He lives in Long Beach, N.Y.

GILBERT R. LADD IV, a second-year medical
student at Vanderbilt University in Nashville,
Tenn., shares an apartment with William H. King
Ill, ’86.

After practicing law in the Norfolk, Va., office
of Williams, Worrell, Kelly, Greer & Frank,
LAURA A. MISNER has transferred to the firm’s
Williamsburg office.

JOHN G. MITCHELL III is a second-year law
student at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.

BRUCE ALAN REED is credit approval manager
for Hecht’s department store chain in the
Baltimore-Washington area. He lives in Wheaton,
Md.

ALAN G. SCARISBRICK is an analyst with
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in Dallas.

MATTHEW H. STEILBERG is a branch
manager for First Union National Bank in Rocky
Mount, N.C.

DALE A. STERNHEIMER is an attorney at
Brown & Wood, a securities firm in New York
City.

2ND LT. JOHN T. WILTSE is the state educa-
tion officer for the Connecticut National Guard.
He is also maintenance platoon leader for Com-
pany B, 1430 Forward Support Battalion, in
Southington, Conn. He lives in Newington.

E. G. ALLEN III is a first-year law

student at Marshall Wythe School of
Law at the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg, Va.

CHARLES C. BENEDICT works for Trust Com-
pany Bank in Atlanta.

STACY D. BLANK is a financial institutions
associate in the Tampa, Fla., law office of Holland
& Knight.

PHILLIP H. BUCHANAN is an associate in the
litigation section of Willcox & Savage in Norfolk,
Va.

PAUL T. COLELLA of Colts Neck, N.J., is an
associate at the law firm of Giordano, Halleran
& Ciesla. He was admitted to the New Jersey Bar
on Dec. 19.

JOYCE M. COLEMAN became the first and on-
ly female attorney in Amherst County, Va., when
she passed the Virginia State Bar exam this fall.

She practices with Meeks, Smith & Associates in
Madison Heights, Va.

MATTHEW E. DIEMER is a management intern
for Central Fidelity Bank in Lynchburg, Va.

ROBERT M. DRAKE works in the commercial
mortgage department at the Winston-Salem, N.C.,
office of Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.

RALSTON B. FITLER III is a sales representative
for Carton Service Inc. in Raleigh, N.C.

ALAN F. GARRISON is an associate in the
business practice group of Willcox & Savage in
Norfolk.

WADE M. HAMPTON is enrolled in law school
at the University of South Carolina.

M. HOLLIS HUTCHINSON practices medical
malpractice litigation with Weisbrod, Weisbrod &
Meador in Dallas.

HEATHER A. KING practices partnership and
general business law with Womble, Carlyle, San-
dridge & Rice in Winston-Salem, N.C.

JOHN S. KIRCHNER is a first-year medical stu-
dent at Hahnemann University in Philadelphia.

Currently a paralegal in the Washington, D.C.,
office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld,
JAMES R. LANCASTER will enroll in law school
at the University of Texas at Austin in August.

JOHN C. MCDONALD JR. teaches history and
coaches basketball at Bayside Academy in Daphne,
Ala.

ANDREW T. (TY) MCMAINS is a senior at Loui-
siana State University, majoring in political science
and business administration. He plans to move to
Washington, D.C., in June and work on Capitol
Hill before enrolling in law school.

WILLIAM H. MCNAIR JR. is studying German
literature and architectural history at the Univer-
sity of Heidelberg in West Germany. After a year
of studies, he plans to return to the United States
for graduate school.

TIMOTHY C. PHELAN is assistant director of
annual giving in the alumni-development office of
his alma mater, the Lawrenceville School in
Lawrenceville, N.J.

HENRY M. SACKETT IV is a sales trainee with
N. B. Handy Co. of Lynchburg, Va.

H. POWELL STARKS (See ’83).

KATHERINE K. WAGNER works in the com-
mercial real estate department of Shanley & Fisher
in Morristown, N.J.

JOHN F. WOODHAM is pursuing a master of
business administration degree from Georgia State
University. He has applied to law schools for ad-
mission in the fall.

JOSEPH W. ZAMORANO is employed with
Martin J. Moran Co., a consultant fund-raising
firm based in New York City.

| Marriages

DAVID LLOYD JONES, ’45, and his West
German-born wife, Hildegard, are spending
winters in Palm Beach, Fla., and summers in
southampton, N.Y. They were married Sept. 24,

 

 

 

C. RICKENBRODE CHITTUM, ’69, and
Catherine Ann Christianson on Aug. 13, 1988, in
Staunton, Va. The wedding party included
classmates Alan W. Lee, Edwin B. (Ted) Vaden
Jr., and Thomas H. Wright III and also James
J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L, and Charles N. Bishop Jr.,
*71L. Chittum is a legislative consultant and tree
farmer. The couple lives in Churchville, Va.

JOHN ANTHONY WOLF, ’69, ’72L, and his
wife, Ellen, recently moved to a new house in
Baltimore. They were married in June 1988. Wolf,
an attorney with the firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes
& Shriver, is a member of the board of trustees
of Bryn Mawr School, where his daughter, Jessica,
is in the ninth grade.

DR. BARRY W. MITCHELL, ’71, and Brenda
Mansen on Sept. 10, 1988, in Albany, N.Y. The
couple lives in Glenmont, N.Y., where Mitchell
is a plastic surgeon.

DR. JERRY NORTON JOHNSON, ’74, and
Paula Touchstone on Oct. 15, 1988. Johnson prac-
tices chiropractic medicine in Dallas.

ALLEN S. C. WILLINGHAM, ’74, and Susan
Holloway Shoulders on Nov. 19, 1988. Willingham
is a partner in the civil litigation law firm of Love
and Willingham in Atlanta.

GRADY C. FRANK JR., ’75L, and Elizabeth
Jones Meltz of Nashville, Tenn., on June 12, 1988,
in Alexandria, Va. In addition to Grady III, 10,
the family now includes two daughters, Bryan, 10,
and Lisa Meltz, 13.

JEAN L. BYASSEE, ’78L, and Ted Rupel on Dec.
17, 1988. Byassee is a partner in the Nashville,
Tenn., firm of Gillmor, Anderson & Gillmor.

HOWARD F. (HOWDY) KNIPP III, ’78, and
Paige Dunlap on Aug. 20, 1988, in Upper
Saranac, N.Y. The couple lives in Baltimore.

T. JOEL LOVING, ’78, and Betty Robertson on
Oct. 29, 1988, in Fluvanna County, Va. Loving,
a faculty member at the University of Virginia, was
recently named director of the UVA Asbestos
Management Program at the School of Continu-
ing Education.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR., ’78, and Gayle Zelaz-
ny on Oct. 8, 1988, in Sharon, Conn. Marvin’s
classmates Robert L. Clarkson and Richard S.
Cleary were ushers. The couple lives in Bronxville,
N.Y.

STEPHEN P. RODGERS, ’78, and Rene Zaffke
on Dec. 10, 1988, in Farmington, N.M. Rodgers
is a senior economist and public utility specialist
with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
in Washington, D.C.

DR. DAVID T. TRICE, ’78, and Suzanne Dorgan
on July 16, 1988. Trice practices cardiology in
Mobile, Ala.

J. LAWRENCE CONNOLLY, ’79, and Leigh
Zeigler on March 19, 1988, in Scottsboro, Ala. The
couple lives in New York City.

WILLIAM S. RIDGE, ’80, and Jodie Buck on
April 30, 1988, in Glenview, Ill. Ridge is vice presi-
dent of Gateway Chemical Co. in Kansas City,
Mo.

W. WARREN CROWDUS III, ’81, and Kathleen
Hennessey on Sept. 10, 1988, at Greenfield Village
near Detroit. Raymond Price III, ’81, was best
man. Both Crowdus and his wife practice law in
Chicago.

JEFFREY W. HAMILL, ’81, and Susan Har-

rington in August 1988 in Darien, Conn. Hamill
is Midwest advertising manager for Redbook
magazine in Chicago.

THOMAS G. BAKER JR., ’82L, and Jo Ann
Rogers on Aug. 6, 1988. Baker practices law in
Dublin, Va., and the couple lives in Radford.

WILLIAM F. L. BROWN, ’82, and Mary Ellen
Hulsey on Oct. 8, 1988, in Jacksonville, Fla. The
couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

JOHN D. HARRIS JR., ’82, and Nora Katherine
Monahan on May 21, 1988, in Roswell, Ga.
Members of the wedding party included Joseph
Robles, ’81, and the groom’s classmates Robert
L. Dalman, Gary A. Johnson, and Dale F. Park.
Harris is manager at Ernst & Whinney’s Atlanta
office.

KEVIN T. HONEY, ’82, and Kathleen Malone of
Tarrytown, N.Y., on Dec. 31, 1988. Honey is
district manager of sales for the Oldsmobile divi-
sion of General Motors Corp. in New York City.
The couple lives in Purdys, N.Y.

KELLY J. NIERNBERGER, ’82, and Helen-
Marie Roff on Aug. 27, 1988, in Overland Park,
Kan. Niernberger is a a research analyst for a train-
ing and development services firm in Bethesda,
Md. The couple lives in Alexandria.

CAPT. DOUGLAS W. LESSLEY, ’83, and
Sharon Lee Runner on Dec. 30, 1988, in
Charleston, W.Va. Lessley is a detachment com-
mander in the 10th Special Forces Group of the
U.S. Army in Fort Devens, Mass.

MARTIN J. BECHTOLD, ’84, and Naomi
Sponsler on Dec. 31, 1988. Bob Spatig, ’85, and
Chris Coogan, ’82, were in the wedding party.
Bechtold is events and promotions coordinator at
Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa.

ERIC J. CAMPBELL, ’84, and Helen Hodge
Koszewski on Aug. 27, 1988, in Fairfax Station,
Va. The groom’s classmates Mark A. Lukes and
Sean J. McNulty were ushers. The couple lives in
Forest Hills, N.Y.

DAVID C. JUDGE, ’84, and Catherine L.
Schwarz on Sept. 10, 1988, in Short Hills, N.J.
Patrick J. Buttarazzi Jr., ’°84, was a member of
the wedding party. The couple lives in Summit,
N.J.

LT. E. MARSHALL F. BOWDEN, ’85, and Mar-
tha Robertson on May 14, 1988, in Richmond.
James A. McLaughlin, ’86, and classmates
William H. Schoeffler and Richard P. (Taz)
Schoenberg were groomsmen. The couple will
return to the United States this summer, when
Bowden finishes his final year stationed in West
Germany with the U.S. Army.

CHARLES M. DAVIDSON, ’85, and Denise
Trevino on Aug. 6, 1988. The wedding party in-
cluded classmates Jefferson M. Boswell, R.
Christopher Busbee, Craig P. Chambers, Gordon
C. Gooch, John W. Herndon III, and John D.
Maclay Jr. Davidson is employed in Atlanta with
Conoco Inc., the energy subsidiary of DuPont.

ELLEN H. GRAY, ’85L, and David Lee Owen
on Oct. 15, 1988, in Norfolk, Va. George H. Gray,
"SOL, gave the bride away. Teresa Ann Keough,
*85L, was the maid of honor and Susan Gray
Winstead, ’79L, was also a member of the bridal
party. The couple lives in Richmond.

MICHAEL Z. JACOBY, ’85, and Michelle Ezra
on Nov. 13, 1988, in Washington, D.C. Robert
S. Sloan, ’85, was best man and John A. DiDuro,
°85, was an usher. Jacoby works in commercial

W&L 41

real estate in Washington and lives with his wife
in Kensington, Md.

JAMES D. KAY JR., ’85L, and Elaine Michelle
Ginn of Nashville, Tenn., on Nov. 19, 1988. John
C. Morrow, ’85L, and C. J. Steuart Thomas III,
’86L, were groomsmen. Kay is an associate with
Manier, Herod, Hollabaugh & Smith in Nashville
and is president of Kay Brothers Inc., a residen-
tial construction company.

TIMOTHY L. YORK, ’86, and Stacy Ann Feeney
of Brooklyn, N.Y., on Oct. 29, 1988. York is assis-
tant vice president for taxable fixed income with
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York City.

RUTH ELLEN DUVALL, ’87L, and PAUL C.
KUHNEL, ’87L, on Sept. 24, 1988. In December
Mrs. Kuhnel was named marketing manager for
the Metropolitan Economic Development Coun-
cil in Richmond. Mr. Kuhnel is an attorney with
McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe in Richmond.

 

Births

 

 

 

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II, ’53, ’56L, and Jill
Jordan, a daughter, Lara Denise June Jordan, on
June 25, 1988. The family lives in San Jose, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS E. CLARKE, ’70,
their first child, James Crispin Edward, on Nov.
29, 1988. Clarke is a partner in the Houston law
firm of Andrews & Kurth.

MR. AND MRS. BRENT G. HANKINS, ’70, a
daughter, Krista Alide, on Sept. 23, 1988. The
family lives in Bridgeton, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. H. L. (MICKEY) MIXSON JR.,
*70, ason, Lamar Christopher, on March 30, 1988.
The family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM F. RECTOR JR.,
’70, twin daughters, Eleanor Annabelle and Mol-
ly Bess, on Sept. 3, 1988. Rector is president of
Renaissance Properties Ltd. in Little Rock, Ark.

DR. AND MRS. LUCIUS D. CLAY III, ’71, a
daughter, Geraldine Margaret, in August 1988. She
joins a brother, Lukie, 5. Clay practices general
and colorectal surgery in Princeton, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT R. JENSEN, ’71, a
third child, Kaitlyn Rousseau, on July 23, 1988.
Jensen is chairman of the theatre department at
Fullerton College in Fullerton, Calif. He is also
managing director of a summer resident theatre
company, high school theatre conservatory, and
a children’s theatre company.

MR. AND MRS. LEX O. MCMILLAN III, ’72,
a son, Patrick Lewis, on Nov. 12, 1988. He joins
two brothers and two sisters. McMillan is direc-
tor of development at W&L.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT B. MORGAN JR.,
’72, a daughter, Alison Elizabeth, on March 28,
1988. She joins a brother, Robert, 3. Morgan is
president of Southmont Development Co. in Bir-
mingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD J. SPLITTORF,
°72, ason, Michael John, on Dec. 1, 1988. He joins
a brother, Bryan Richard, 2. Splittorf is eastern
advertising manager for Bon Appetit magazine in
New York City. The family lives in Wilton, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN G. TUCKER, ’72, a son,
Morrison Graham II, on Oct. 10, 1988, in New
York City.

42 W&L

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN L. CORBIN, ’73,a
daughter, Kristin Copeland, on July 30, 1988. She
joins a sister, Hillary Lee, 3. The family lives on
Sanibel Island, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. G. ARCHER FRIERSON II,
73, ason, Allen Nicholson, on Aug. 13, 1988. He
joins Archer III, 10; Bratton, 8; Marion, 6; and
Elizabeth, 2. Frierson keeps busy with his fami-
ly’s Frierson Plantation in Shreveport, La., the
Caddo Parish School Board, and First
Presbyterian Church.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD S. MANDELSON,
’73L, a daughter, Emily, on Aug. 22, 1988. The
family lives in Denver, Colo.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN P. MILLER, ’73L, ason,
Robinson Garrett, on Dec. 10, 1988. The family
lives in Baltimore.

MR. AND MRS. GREGORY B. ROBERTSON,
°73, a third child, Richard Withers, on Sept. 26,
1988. The family lives in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD ROMANELLI, ’73,
a son, Richard John, on June 3, 1988. He joins
three sisters. Romanelli is deputy director of in-
formation management at Aberdeen Proving
Grounds in Aberdeen, Md.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV, ’73,
a second daughter, Susan de Witt, on Aug. 15,
1988. In November, Taylor established Taylor
Consulting Group, an Atlanta firm which provides
a broad range of business-related financial con-
sulting services.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD J. TOGNETTI, ’73,
a daughter, Morgan Anne, on Oct. 17, 1988. She
joins a sister, Elizabeth Nicole, 8. The family lives
in Dallas.

MR. AND MRS. C. RUSSELL FLETCHER III,
’74, a son, Thomas Christian Gordon, on Jan. 13,
1989. The family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. STEPHEN J. GREENE, ’74,
a son, Scott Lewis, on June 12, 1988. He joins
Daniel, 7, and Robin, 4. Greene is chairman of
the board of Stagg Industries in Birmingham, Ala.,
manufacturers of men’s and women’s belts and
accessories.

MR. AND MRS. GARY W. MCAULIFFE, ’74,
triplets, Mary Lillian, William Wade, and Neal
Jacob, on Nov. 18, 1988. They join Katie, 6.
McAuliffe is sales representative for CIBA-Geigy
Pharmaceutical Hospital, serving the Medical Col-
lege of Virginia, the University of Virginia, and
the Veterans Administration hospitals in Salem
and Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. RAINEY, ’74, a
daughter, Caroline Gabrey, on Aug. 30, 1988. She
joins two brothers, Weston, 8, and Clarke, 4. The
family lives in Anderson, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM H. SANDERS JR.,
74, a daughter, Virginia Crane, on June 15, 1988.
She joins brothers Bryan and David. The family
lives in Mission Woods, Kan.

MR. AND MRS. J. TIMOTHY THOMPSON,
°74, a daughter, Elizabeth Carroll, on Aug. 31,
1988. She joins brother John, 11, and sister Cate,
5. Thompson is vice president and manager of the
Alexandria, Va., office of Shearson Lehman
Hutton.

MR. AND MRS. JONATHAN H. WEIGLE, ’74,
a daughter, Julia Meyer, on Oct. 19, 1988. She
joins a sister, Ellen, 5, and brother, Nathan, 2.
The family lives in Bettendorf, Iowa.

MR. AND MRS. GREGG B. AMONETTE, ’75,
a son, Jacob Andrew Charles, on July 10, 1988,
in New York City. The family lives in Westfield,
N.J.

MR. AND MRS. LAWRENCE B. CAHOON,
°75, ason, Samuel Ross, on July 19, 1988. Cahoon
is associate professor of biological sciences at the
University of North Carolina-Wilmington.

MR. AND MRS. STUART B. NIBLEY, ’75,
*79L, a son, Pearson Parker, on Nov. 20, 1988.
He joins a brother, Stoddert, 2. The family lives
in Chevy Chase, Md.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS J. RITTENBURG,
°75, a first child, Andrew Thomas, on Aug. 9,
1988, in Pasadena, Calif. Rittenburg is a partner
in the law firm of Lewis, D’Amato, Brisbois &
Bisgaard in Los Angeles.

DR. AND MRS. JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR., ’75,
ason, William Raines, on Sept. 21, 1988. Welden
practices internal medicine with Southside Inter-
nist Group in Birmingham, Ala.

DR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. BENDER, ’76, a
third child, Michael James, on June 4, 1988.
Bender is on the staff of Cooper Hospital in
Camden, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. C. LYNCH CHRISTIAN III,
*76L, a daughter, Sarah Tatum, on May 20, 1988.
She joins a sister, Hannah, 4. The family lives in
Lynchburg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM B. PEARD, ’76, a
son, Jackson Brooke, on Sept. 18, 1988. Peard is
a partner in the Atlanta office of Arthur Andersen
and Co.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN F. SHETTLE, ’76, a se-
cond son, Robert Adam, on July 29, 1988. Shet-
tle is senior vice president for Avemco Corp. in
Frederick, Md.

MR. AND MRS. WILLARD T. SIGLER, ’76, a
daughter, Marguerite Holland, on Sept. 15, 1988.
Sigler is a land surveyor and principal with
Berkley-Howell & Associates in the Lynchburg,
Va., and Smith Mountain Lake area.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL J. BURNS, ’77, a
daughter, Kimberly Ann, on Aug. 11, 1988. The
family lives in Red Bank, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLASS W. DEWING, ’77,
a daughter, Elizabeth Marie Adele, on Oct. 19,
1988. The family lives in Portsmouth, Va.

MR. AND MRS. W. CHARLES ROGERS III,
°77, ason, William Charles IV, on June 19, 1988.
The family lives in Monkton, Md.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD A. BURGESS, ’78,
a son, William Outlan, on Aug. 6, 1988, in
Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN H. COLLMUS, ’78, a
son, John Paul, on June 2, 1988. He joins a sister,
Heather. Collmus is headmaster of The Covenant
School in Charlottesville, Va.

PAMELA ROGERS MELTON, ’78L, and
LAWRENCE C. MELTON, ’76L, a son, Joseph
Chalmers McDonald, on March 24, 1988. He joins
a brother, Parker, 3. The family lives in Alexan-
dria, Va.

DR. AND MRS. ROBERT N. MUCCIOLA, ’78,
a son, Michael, on July 15, 1988. He joins a sister,
Nicole, 3. Mucciola is on the staff in the obstetrics
and gynecology department at Sth General
Hospital in Stuttgart, West Germany.

MR. AND MRS. LEE W. MUSE JR., ’78, a son,

 

Tucker Nielson, on June 4, 1988. He joins a
brother, Lee III. The family lives in Mission Vie-

jo, Calif.

CAPT. AND MRS. GREGORY C. SIEMINSKI,
78, a third daughter, Lara Anne, on Oct. 31, 1988.
Sieminski is an instructor of English at the U.S.
Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID A. TUMEN, ’78, a se-
cond son, Jason Charles, on June 17, 1988. The
family lives in Columbus, Ohio.

MR. AND MRS. DONALD L. WILLIAMS, ’78,
a second child, Margaret Anne, on Nov. 28, 1988.
The family lives in Dillwyn, Va.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN C. BOVAY, ’79, a
daughter, Ann Caroline, on Sept. 28, 1988. The
family lives in Gainesville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. STANLEY G. BRADING JR.,
°79L, ason, William Gatewood, on Nov. 5, 1988.
Brading is a partner in the Atlanta law firm of
O’Callaghan, Saunders & Stumm.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT M. BURKHOLDER
JR., ’79, a daughter, Mollie Katherine, on Sept.
2, 1988. Burkholder, an associate in the law firm
of Gawthrop, Greenwood & Halsted in West
Chester, Pa., is the 1989 chairman of the Chester
County Young Lawyers.

MR. AND MRS. J. PETER CLEMENTS, ’79, a
first child, John William II, on Oct. 24, 1988.
Clements is first vice president of the Bank of
Southside Virginia in Carson.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN E. COFFEY, ’79L, a first
child, Erin Teresa, on May 2, 1988. Coffey is an
owner and director of the law firm of Hazel,
Thomas, Fiske, Beckhorn & Hanes in Alexandria,
Va.

MR. AND MRS. R. E. LEE DAVIES, ’79, a son,
Robert Edward Lee Jr., on Dec. 30, 1988. Davies
is a partner in the law firm of Hartzog, Silva &
Davies in Franklin, Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM R. MAUCK JR.,
*79, ’85L, a first child, Caroline Hunter, on Aug.
2, 1988. Mauck is an attorney in the Richmond
law firm of Williams, Mullin, Christian &
Dobbins.

ERIC A. NORD, ’79, and Dr. Bridget Freeman,
a daughter, Anna, in September 1988. Nord ac-
quired Pedicraft Inc. of Jacksonville, Fla., in
September.

LYNNE PRYMAS VOLLMER, ’79L, and An-
drew N. Vollmer, a daughter, Lauren Neill, on
Nov. 1, 1988, in London. Vollmer is counsel to
the swap and options group of Kleinwart Benson
Ltd., a United Kingdom merchant bank.

MR. AND MRS. EDWARD H. BROWN, ’80L,
a first child, Katherine Young, on Sept. 21, 1988.
Brown is a tax attorney in Atlanta with the firm
of Schreeder, Wheeler & Flint.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL F. DEIGHAN, ’80,
a daughter, Mikaela, on July 15, 1988. She joins
a brother, Justin, 3. In February, Deighan became
associated with Interpretive Software in Charlot-
tesville, Va., and is writing business simulation
software programs. He previously was head of
data processing and savings operations at Guaran-
ty Savings and Loan.

MR. AND MRS. GREGORY B. DYER, ’80, a
Son, Kevin Michael, on Sept. 7, 1988. He joins a
Sister, Katie. Dyer’s certified public accounting
firm, Dyer & Associates of Bethesda, Md., recently
completed its first year of operation.

REGINA MARIE EDNIE, ’80L, and MARK R.
DAVIS, ’79L, a first child, Timothy Edward
Davis, on Nov. 18, 1988. Ednie is employed with
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Virginia, and Davis
is assistant attorney general for the city of
Richmond.

BETSY CALLICOTT GOODELL, ’80L, and
WILLIAM R. GOODELL, ’80L, a daughter,
Jackie Rice, on July 3, 1988. The family lives in
Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN L. HIGGS, ’80, a
daughter, Lydia Katherine, on July 29, 1988. Higgs
is an attorney with Magee & Associates in
Roanoke.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT E. LEE, ’80, a son,
Robert, on April 15, 1988. Lee is a vice president
with Bank of Oklahoma in Oklahoma City.

LESLEY BROWN SCHLESS, ’80L, and ERIC
H. SCHLESS, ’80L, a second daughter, Isabelle
de Luppe, on March 7, 1988, in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. MITCHELL S. WYNNE, ’80,
a son, David Mitchell, on Sept. 13, 1988. He joins
a brother, John II, 5, and a sister, Lisa, 3. Wynne
is associated with Wynne Petroleum Co. in Fort
Worth, Texas, where he is also an advisory direc-
tor at the NCNB-Ridglea.

CAPT. AND MRS. WILLIAM L. ABERNATHY
JR., ’81L, a fourth son, Robert Harris, on Aug.
9, 1988. He joins Lane, 5, and twins Drew and
Charlie, 2. The family lives in Fort Bragg, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD A. BAXTER, ’81,
a daughter, Chelsea, on Sept. 6, 1988. Baxter is
associated with General Electric Capital in Fair-
field, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. LAWRENCE J. DAVIS, ’81,
a daughter, Lindsay Rachel, on July 11, 1988. The
family lives in Bellmore, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. STEVEN W. HELLBERG, ’81,
a son, Scott Dolan, on Oct. 1, 1988. He joins a
brother, Eric, and a sister, Allison, both 2. The
family lives in Pittsburgh.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID B. IRVIN, ’81, a son,
Benjamin Taylor, on Aug. 16, 1988, in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM M. FRANCE JR.,
°83, a son, Will, on June 18, 1988. France is
general sales manager for WHOK-FM in Colum-
bus, Ohio.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID K. FRIEDFELD, ’83L,
a son, Jacob Daniel, on Feb. 4, 1988. Friedfeld
is employed with Clear Vision Optical Co. in West
Hempstead, N.Y.

CECILY LAVIGNE-MORRIS, ’83L, and Mark
R. Morris, a daughter, Leah, on June 9, 1988. She
joins Michael, 4, and Emily, 3. LaVigne-Morris
is a partner in the firm of LaVigne, Morris & Peets.
The family lives in Massena, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. C. JAY ROBBINS IV, ’83L, a
daughter, Megan Cates, on May 18, 1988. Rob-
bins is associated with the law firm of Outland,
Gray, O’Keefe & Hubbard in Chesapeake, Va.

MR. AND MRS. HENRY W. ROYAL, ’83, a
son, Henry Wood Jr., on Nov. 4, 1988. Royal is
sales manager for the Southeast United States for
H. M. Royal Inc. in Charlotte.

MR. AND MRS. D. ROBERT JONES, ’84L, a
daughter, Lucy Mae, on Nov. 21, 1988. The family
lives in Fort Worth, Texas, where Jones is an
associate with Shannon, Gracey, Ratliff & Miller.

MR. AND MRS. GLEN O. JACKSON, ’85, a
daughter, Virginia Suzanne, on Dec. 2, 1988. The
family lives in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. C. J. STEUART THOMAS III,
°86L, a daughter, Ann Marshall, on Oct. 8, 1988.
The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Send Some News for Class Notes

Name Class
Address

City State Zip

Send to: Class Notes
W&L Alumni Magazine ¢ Reid Hall
Washington and Lee University ¢ Lexington, Virginia 24450
W&L 43

MR. AND MRS. H. ALEXANDER WISE JR.,
*88L, a third child, Elizabeth Carrington, on May
30, 1988. Wise is clerking for Judge E. Grady Jolly
of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Jackson, Miss.

 

In Memoriam

WILLIAM HAIMES SMITH, ’15, of Ardmore,
Okla., died May 16, 1988. A native of Texas,
Smith played both baseball and football at
Washington and Lee and was secretary of the
Athletic Association. Following graduation he
moved to Oklahoma, where his father had
established a cattle business. He later developed
an oil venture in Ardmore. He was a member of
the Robert E. Lee Associates.

JAMES CRADDOCK AMBLER, ’18, retired
chairman of the board and chief executive officer
of Ginn & Co., died Oct. 22, 1988. After atten-
ding Washington and Lee for two years, he enlisted
in the U.S. Army and served as an ambulance
driver in France. He then became a second lieute-
nant in the field artillery. In 1920 he earned a
bachelor’s degree from the University of Virginia.
He later served six years as superintendent of
schools in Fauquier County, Va., and in 1929, he
joined Ginn as the textbook publishing company’s
Virginia sales representative. By 1937 he was a
partner in the company with responsibility for the
Southern division. He retired in 1964 and two years
later returned to Richmond. He was a director of
American Life Insurance Co. and a member of St.
James’s Episcopal Church in Richmond.

EDMUND MCCULLOUGH CAMERON, ’24,
Duke University’s retired coach and director of
athletics, died in Durham, N.C., on Nov. 25, 1988.
He was inducted into Washington and Lee’s
Athletic Hall of Fame in September. After earn-
ing his W&L degree, he remained in Lexington as
assistant coach and economics instructor. After
coaching at Greenbrier Military Academy for a
year, he became Duke’s freshman coach in foot-
ball, basketball, and baseball in 1926. He served
as head basketball coach from 1929 to 1942 and
then was named acting football coach and athletic
director. During World War II, he directed the
Navy physical training program at Duke. He
retired in 1972. Cameron was instrumental in for-
ming the Atlantic Coast Conference and was
elected to the National Football Hall of Fame in
1976. During his career, he served as president of
Northeast Industrial Oil Co. and Asphalt &
Petroleum Co. and as executive vice president of
Eastern Oil Transport and Swann Oil Inc.

DR. HENRY BRAGG GOTTEN, ’24, a retired
physician from Memphis, Tenn., died Dec. 26,
1988. After two years of training at W&L, he at-
tended the University of Tennessee and earned a
medical degree in 1926. Two years later, he began
the practice of internal medicine at the Sanders-
Warr Clinic. Between 1942 and 1945, he served
in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps. He was past
president and secretary of the Memphis and Shelby
County Medical Society, a former vice president
of the Tennessee State Medical Society, and a
former member of the board of LeMoyne-Owen
College. He was a member of the Calvary
Episcopal Church, where he was a past member
of the vestry.

ROBERT FLOYD BOLLING JR., ’25, a retired
salesman with State Office Supply Inc. of
Roanoke, died Dec. 21, 1988. After attending
W&L for two years, he earned a degree from

44 W&L

 

 

 

Roanoke College. Bolling was a salesman with
Caldwell-Sites Co. in Roanoke before joining State
Office Supply in 1954. He served the company
more than 25 years.

THOMAS EASLEY OWEN, ’25, a retired adver-
tising manager for The Clarksville Times of
Clarksville, Va., died June 6, 1988. After attend-
ing W&L for two years, he continued his educa-
tion at Eastman Business College in Poughkeep-
sie, N.Y. In 1925, he joined the sales department
of Pathe Motion Picture Co. and later worked in
sales with Merrill Lynch Pearce Fenner & Smith.
After 18 years in advertising sales with The New
York Post, he moved to Virginia and joined The
Clarksville Times staff. In Clarksville he served
on the town council for eight years and was a
member of the Clarksville Presbyterian Church.

O. JENNINGS WILKINSON JR., ’28, ’33L,
founder of the circuit board manufacturing com-
pany Printex Corp. in what is now known as
Silicon Valley, Calif., died Nov. 7, 1988. In 1935,
he joined Powdered Products Co. in Columbus,
Ohio. He left the company in 1949 as president
to become vice president and treasurer of Walcrest
Co. He founded Printex in 1963 and was chair-
man of the board from 1968 until 1975, when the
company was sold to Anglo Co. Ltd., an onshore
contract drilling company. Wilkinson was retired
from the boards of several companies, including
National Nuclear of Palo Alto, Calif. He was a
member of W&L’s Robert E. Lee Associates.

HARRY CLAY (MICKEY) LAWDER III, 730,
founder of the collection department of the Naples
(Fla.) Community Hospital, died Nov. 28, 1988.
After studying at W&L for three years, he became
associated with his father’s retail grocery business
in Havre de Grace, Md. During World War II,
he served as a first sergeant in the Maryland State
Guard. Lawder took over his father’s business and
remained in Havre de Grace until the late ’60s.
After being associated with the Glen L. Martin
Co., he moved to Port Deposit, Md., where he
became associated with Cecil National Bank. Hav-
ing been a premedical student at W&L, Lawder
then accepted a position as Harford Memorial
Hospital’s ‘‘collection department.’’ When he
moved to Naples in 1973, he founded the collec-
tion department at the Naples Community
Hospital. During his lifetime, Lawder was active
with the Elks Club, the Boy Scouts of America,
and the Havre de Grace Athletic Association,
which he served as a director and treasurer.

JACK THORINGTON JR.., ’30, retired president
of the State Abstract Co. of Montgomery, Ala.,
died Sept. 8, 1988. After three years at W&L, he
enrolled at the University of Alabama, where he
earned a bachelor’s degree in 1930 and a law degree
in 1931. Thorington’s practice in Montgomery was
confined mostly to title law. He retired from State
Abstract, a real estate title service company, in
December 1976. He was a member of the local
Rotary Club.

Former Virginia state senator, attorney, and
banker JAMES HOGE TYLER III, ’31, ’33L,
died Sept. 29, 1988. After his graduation from
WA&L, he practiced law in Norfolk for many years
before retiring as partner of Mann & Tyler. Tyler
became a director of Seaboard Citizens National
Bank in 1937, was named general counsel in 1945,
and I1 years later was named president. In 1967,
when Seaboard Citizens merged with United
Virginia Bankshares Inc., Tyler became chairman
of the board of United Virginia Bankshares (now
Crestar Financial Corp.). In 1956 he joined United
Virginia Bank-Seaboard National (now Crestar
Bank), serving as chairman of the board and chief
executive officer. In 1972, he retired as chairman

of both financial institutions. Tyler was a member
of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1942 un-
til 1944 and served in the Virginia senate from 1945
to 1947. He was named First Citizen of Norfolk
in 1963 for his service as president of the Norfolk
Chamber of Commerce and as board member of
the State Council of Higher Education, the
Tidewater Virginia Development Council, Hamp-
ton Roads Maritime Association, United Com-
munities Fund, and Norfolk General Hospital
(now Sentara Norfolk General Hospital).

JUDSON SHIERS JONES, ’32, retired manager
of construction materials for Connors Steel in Bir-
mingham, Ala., died Aug. 27, 1988. After atten-
ding W&L for one year, he enrolled at Ohio
University and then at Purdue University. He
worked in construction, general field engineering,
structural engineering, and sales before being
drafted into the U.S. Army. He served in both
theatres and was discharged as a major in the
Corps of Engineers. After the war, he became sales
engineer with Truscon Steel Co. in Greensboro,
N.C. By 1948 he had moved to Birmingham, where
he lived until his death. He was a member of St.
Mary’s Episcopal Church.

JAMES EDWARD LIGHTLE JR., ’32, senior
partner in the Searcy, Ark., law firm of Lightle,
Beebe, Raney & Bell, died Nov. 11, 1988. After
attending W&L for one year, he earned a civil
engineering degree from Harvard in 1932. He later
earned a law degree from the University of Arkan-
sas and from 1938 to 1942 served as Searcy city
attorney. During World War II, he was a captain
in the U.S. Army Air Corps Intelligence Service
and served with the 8th Air Force in England.
Lightle was a member of the Arkansas House of
Representatives for the 1947-48 term and served
in the state senate from 1963 to 1970. During his
52-year law career, he served on the state Board
of Law Examiners and the Supreme Court Client
Security Committee. He was a former president
of the Searcy Kiwanis Club, was active in the Sear-
cy Chamber of Commerce and the Searcy In-
dustrial Development Commission, was a direc-
tor of First National Bank of Searcy, and served
on the St. Vincent Infirmary Development Coun-
cil. He was a vestryman, lay reader, and senior
warden of the Searcy Trinity Parish Episcopal
Church and served on the Bishop’s Diocesan
Council.

JOSEPH LEITCH WRIGHT, ’32, retired vice
president of Johnston Mills Co. in Charlotte, died
Dec. 25, 1988. After graduation, he joined
classmate John F. Ladd in Mobile, Ala., and
together they accepted jobs as apprentice seamen
with Waterman Steam Co. and traveled abroad
for a summer. Upon returning to the United
States, Wright took a position at a textile plant
in Great Falls, S.C. By the late 1940s, he had mov-
ed to Mount Holly, N.C., where he served as
general superintendent of the American Yarn &
Processing Co. In 1950 he joined Johnston Mills
Co. in Charlotte, retiring as vice president of
manufacturing.

JOHN GRIFFITHS JR., ’33, retired vice presi-
dent of Capital Tool & Manufacturing Co. Inc.
of Roanoke, Va., died Oct. 30, 1988. After his
graduation from W&L, he moved back to New
York and became manager of the John Griffiths
Co. Inc., an industrial engineering firm in
Poughkeepsie. During World War II, he served
as a first lieutenant and statistical control officer
in Guam and the Philippines. From 1946 to 1968,
he served as president of the John Griffiths Co.
and then accepted a sales administration position
with Wood Industries Inc., a newspaper press
manufacturing company in Plainfield, N.J. By

 

eS et ee.

“af st ake. Vien et > ih. 8,

ait hh) ak has

a s

 

‘
‘
okt
4
‘
g
<
4
>

 

1973 he was serving as vice president of marketing
and sales for Capital Tool, manufacturers of
graphic arts equipment. After retiring, he moved
to Rhode Island for several years and then spent
the final seven years of his life living in Fort Myers,

Fla.

WALTER CALKINS CREMIN, ’34L, a retired
independent oil operator from Midland, Texas,
died Nov. 27, 1988. Cremin was president of his
senior law class, was a member of the Interfrater-
nity Council, and played both football and
baseball during his years at W&L. After leaving
Lexington, he joined Shell Oil Co. as a landman.
He later transferred to Houston and then to
Midland in 1936. In the early 1940s, he became
an independent operator and retired in 1984. At
the time of his death, he was affiliated with the
First Presbyterian Church in Midland.

LOTHROP LESLIE HELMER, ’35, retired presi-
dent of the Helmer Corp., a manufacturer of
precast concrete products in Cumberland, Md.,
died Dec. 8, 1988. After attending W&L, he join-
ed the Cumberland plant of Republic Steel Corp.
After three years, he had become assistant plant
manager but left to accept a position with New
England Mutual Life Insurance Co. After another
three years, he was district manager but left in 1941
to join the Amcelle plant of the Celanese Corp.
of America. He served Celanese until 1957, when
he left as vice president for industrial relations.
He then served as president of the Helmer Corp.
until retiring. During his career, he served as a
director of Buchanan Lumber Corp., of the
Allegany County Industrial Development Commis-
sion, and of First National Bank & Trust Co. of
Western Maryland. He was a former president of
the Cumberland Junior Chamber of Commerce
and a former state president of the organization.
Helmer had served on the board of governors for
Memorial Hospital and was a former director of
the local Salvation Army.

LOUIS PATRICK CASHMAN JR., ’37, retired
editor and publisher of the Vicksburg (Miss.) Even-
ing Post, died Dec. 20, 1988. In 1937, he joined
his father’s Vicksburg newpaper business as na-
tional advertising manager. During World War II,
he served as a tank commander, mortar platoon
leader, and battalion adjutant in the European
Theatre with the 6th Armored Division. He was
discharged as a first lieutenant in September 1945,
when he resumed his newspaper career. In 1961,
he became publisher of the Vicksburg Evening
Post and Herald, a position he held until retiring
in 1984. During his career, he was president of the
Mississippi Press Association and a director of the
Southern Newspaper Publishers Association. In
the Vicksburg community, he was director of the
YMCA, a member of the executive committee of
the Mississippi Research and Development Coun-
cil, president of the Rotary Club, a director of the
Street Medical Foundation and the Vicksburg-
Warren Chamber of Commerce, and a member
of the Vicksburg Bridge Commission. He was past
president of the Mississippi Ornithological Society.

HORACE ZACHARY KRAMER, ’37, retired
counsel to the New York state Assembly’s Real
Property Taxation Committee, died Oct. 8, 1988.
After his graduation from W&L, he enrolled at
Columbia University’s law school for a year and
then earned his degree from Brooklyn Law School
in 1941, After becoming associated with U.S. Drug
Corp. in Brooklyn, he joined the U.S. Army, ser-
Ving as first lieutenant in the Hawaiian Islands.
By 1947 he was vice president of U.S. Drug and
remained with the company until it became inac-
tive in the early 1970s. He then became associated
With the law firm of Jaspan, Ginsberg, Ehrlich &

Levin. In 1962 Kramer became vice chairman of
the Nassau County Board of Assessors, a position
he held for nine years. In 1975 he was named
counsel to the state Assembly’s Real Property Tax-
ation Committee. Kramer was a former director
of the Community Chest for five different towns,
a former director of the Adelphi University Real
Estate Institute, a former president of the
Woodmere Estates Civic Association, and
Democratic Zone Leader for Woodmere, where
he lived since the early 1950s. He was a political
activist and had managed the successful campaigns
of two Democrats in local government.

EMORY AMBLER CANTEY, ’38, a partly
retired partner in the Fort Worth, Texas, law firm
of Cantey & Hanger, died Oct. 15, 1988. After at-
tending W&L for two years, he enrolled at the
University of Texas and earned a law degree in
1939. That year, he became associated with the law
firm he served continuously until his death, with
the exception of his service in the Marine Corps
from 1943 to 1946. During his career, Cantey serv-
ed as a director and member of the executive com-
mittee of First National Bank of Fort Worth, as
secretary and director of Components Inc., and
as secretary and director of Graham Magnetics Inc.
He was associated with St. Andrew’s Episcopal
Church.

ROBERT BRECKINRIDGE MORRISON, ’38, a
vice president and salesman of Booker-Price Co.
in Louisville, Ky., died July 9, 1988. After earn-
ing a degree from W&L, he became associated with
Stoll Oil Refining Co. in Louisville. He served in
the U.S. Army during World War II and then
returned to Louisville, where he joined Myer-
Bridges Co. He later joined Booker-Price. Mor-
rison was a member of Harvey Browne Memorial
Presbyterian Church.

LUTHER NETTLES BAGNAL JR.., ’39, presi-
dent of L. N. Bagnal Jr. Inc. in Winston-Salem,
N.C., died Aug. 4, 1988. After graduating from
WAL, he joined Bagnal Lumber Co. in Winston-
Salem. From 1943 to 1946, he served in the U.S.
Navy and then returned to the family lumber com-
pany. In 1972, he became associated with Dimen-
sion Enterprises and later opened his own com-
pany, a distributor of wood parts for the furniture
industry.

THOMAS NELSON TENNANT, ’39, of Tucson,
Ariz., died Aug. 24, 1988. After earning his W&L
degree, Tennant became a salesman for North
State Publishing Co. During World War II, he
served a year in the China-Burma-India theatre and
later in Cincinnati with the U.S. Army Air Force.
Upon his discharge in 1946, he moved to Chicago
and became involved in three businesses, opening
two car wash establishments and a rent-a-car
business as well as drilling oil wells. Tennant mov-
ed to Tucson in 1966.

CHARLES MERKEL WALL, ’39, president and
chairman of Noise Measurement & Control Corp.
of West Chester, Pa., died Oct. 8, 1988. Having
attended W&L for one year, Wall returned to his
home state of Pennsylvania and settled in the
Philadelphia area, where he worked with Selby-
Battersby Co. In 1947 he became associated with
C. M. Wall & Co. in Wayne, a manufacturers’
representative and acoustical engineering firm.
During his career, Wall was a director of at least
12 firms and charitable organizations. He was a
member of the Union League of Philadelphia and
a former trustee of the First Presbyterian Church
of Philadelphia.

BERTRAM RAYMON SCHEWEL, ’4]1, presi-
dent of the fourth-generation family furniture
business that is based in Lynchburg, Va., died Jan.

26, 1989. After his graduation from W&L, the
Lynchburg native moved to Savannah, Ga., for
six months and worked for Chatham Furniture Co.
In December 1941, he entered the U.S. Air Force
as a private. He spent five years in the service, won
seven battle stars, and was discharged as a cap-
tain in January 1946. He joined Schewel Furniture
Co. that year as advertising manager and assistant
buyer. During his career, Schewel served as presi-
dent and director of the Lynchburg Retail Mer-
chants Association, director of the Southern Retail
Furniture Association, president of the Lynchburg
Mental Health Association, and chairman of the
board of the Central Lynchburg Salvation Army.
In 1973 he received the National Conference of
Christians and Jews Brotherhood Award. A
longtime Lee Associate, he received W&L’s
Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1986. He was
a former president of the Temple Agudath Sholom
congregation.

LLOYD JACKSON LANICH JR., ’44, who
taught and directed the drama program at
Washington and Lee for several years, died Sept.
29, 1988. Lanich enrolled at W&L in September
1940 but his studies were interrupted by two years
of service as a corporal in the European Theatre
Operation. He earned his degree in 1947 and
enrolled at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington, D.C., where
he earned a master of arts in 1948. He then join-
ed the W&L faculty. In 1958 he earned a doctorate
in theatre history from Yale University. He serv-
ed on the faculty at Pomona College for two years
and then for two years at the State University of
New York at New Paltz. In 1964 he joined the
Emerson College faculty, retiring in 1985. At the
time of his death, he lived in Bedford, Mass.

CARROLL HARRIS FOWLKES JR., ’46, a
retired salesman from Richmond, died Nov. 14,
1988. After attending W&L for one year, he
enlisted in the U.S. Navy but returned to the
University in 1946. A lifelong resident of Rich-
mond, where he was associated with W. Morton
Northern & Co. Inc., Fowlkes was active for a
number of years with the Boy Scouts of America.
He was a communicant of St. James’s Episcopal
Church.

CALEB RICHMOND WILLIAMSON, ’51, presi-
dent of Associated Services Corp. in Danville, Va.,
died June 22, 1988. After his graduation, William-
son worked in the personnel management section
of Dan River Mills until leaving Danville in Oc-
tober 1951 to enlist in the Coast Guard. Follow-
ing officers’ training in May 1952, he reported to
the 269-foot icebreaker Westwind as assistant gun-
nery officer, assistant first lieutenant, and educa-
tion officer. Williamson returned to Danville and
in 1955 established a franchise of National Homes.
He later established the investment real estate firm
of Williamson and Co. Inc. He was also a dealer
for General Electric and an operator of coin laun-
dry establishments. He was active on behalf of
Averett College of Danville and Hampden-Sydney
College and was a member of the Downtown Dan-
ville Associates.

RUSSELL FLANDREAU APPLEGATE, ’52,
manager of marketing communications at S. K.
F. Industries Inc. of King of Prussia, Pa., died
in June 1988 after a long bout with cancer. Upon
receiving his bachelor’s degree from W&L, Ap-
plegate served as a Marine Corps first lieutenant
and then joined the advertising department of Her-
cules Powder Co. in Wilmington, Del. He later
became manager of corporate advertising for the
chemical company, which was renamed Hercules
Inc. He later joined S. K. F. Industries. During
his career, he served the United Fund of Delaware

W&L 45

and the Delmarva Ecumenical Agency. He was
also vice president and treasurer of W&L’s Wilm-
ington alumni chapter.

BARRY DREWE CLARK, ’55, president of
Clark-Whitehill Enterprises Inc. of Virginia Beach,
died June 16, 1988. After his graduation from
WA&L, he joined the Coast Guard and was station-
ed in Norfolk for two years. In 1958 he founded
Clark-Whitehill, a home building and land
development company which built more than 4,000
homes in the next 30 years.

ROBERT JEAN SHEFFLER, ’55L, of Braden-
ton, Fla., died in September 1988. After earning
his law degree from W&L, he moved to Roanoke
for three years before becoming associated with
Menatee River National Bank in Bradenton. He
later became vice president and trust officer of
Barnett Banks Trust Co. in Sarasota. He had
served as vice president, trust officer, and direc-
tor of Manatee National Bank; chairman of the
Sarasota Memorial Hospital Foundation; and
founder and a board member of St. Stephen’s
Episcopal School. In addition, he was senior
warden and a vestry member of Christ Episcopal
Church.

BYRON BERMAN, ’56, a Baltimore attorney and
for many years a taxicab hearing officer for the
state Public Service Commission, died Nov. 13,
1988. After earning a law degree from the Univer-
sity of Maryland in 1959, he went to work in the
Baltimore firm of his late father, Max Berman.
His practice included civil law, personal injury, and
family matters. He served the Public Service Com-
mission from 1965 until August 1988, making him
the longest-tenured commissioner.

CLUNET HOLMES PETTYJOHN JR., ’65,
chairman of the Pettyjohn Co. of Lynchburg, Va.,
died Oct. 13, 1988. The Lynchburg native attend-
ed W&L for one session before returning to Lynch-
burg. He was a member of First Presbyterian
Church.

WILLIAM REESE WILLIAMS III, ’67, associate
executive director of Humana Hospital-Clinch
Valley in Richlands, Va., died Nov. 27, 1988. After

his graduation from W&L, he served in the U.S.
Army and was a Vietnam veteran. He was a direc-
tor of Dominion Bank of Richlands and a member
of Trinity Episcopal Church.

STEPHEN BRANTLEY REICHARD, ’71, died
July 10, 1988, in New York City. After attending
W&L for one year, he enrolled at the Edmund A.
Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown
University. After earning a bachelor’s degree in
foreign service, he enrolled at the Diplomatische
Akademie in Vienna, Austria, where he earned a
master of foreign service degree in 1973. He receiv-
ed a master of business administration degree from
Columbia University in 1975. He then founded
Stephen Reichard Inc., a consulting firm for
museums and artists regarding publications and
exhibitions. He also served as vice president of the
Institute for Art and Urban Resources Inc. in New
York City.

ROBERT ORME GRESHAM, ’72, died in Atlan-
ta on Dec. 1, 1988. After his graduation from
W&L, he became associated with Union Oil Co.
of Indonesia and served as a geologist in
Singapore. He spent a number of years in Califor-
nia before moving back to Atlanta.

RICHARD GORDON JONES, ’80, operations
manager for General Copper and Brass Co., died
Oct. 3, 1988. After attending W&L for one year,
Jones enrolled at Nichols College in Dudley,
Mass., where he earned a bachelor’s degree. The
Media, Pa., resident was a member of the Corin-
thian Yacht Club of Philadelphia.

 

 

 

Friends

 

ALLEN WESLEY MOGER, professor of history
emeritus at Washington and Lee, died Nov. 29.
A native of Nansemond County, Va., Moger
received his bachelor of arts degree from
Randolph-Macon College and his master’s and
doctorate from Columbia University. He taught
at the Virginia Episcopal School in Lynchburg for

And Furthermore

Remembering Jim Boatwright

EDITOR:

I was saddened by the news in the Fall 1988
Alumni Magazine of the death of Jim Boatwright.
I remember him as a talented and inspirational
teacher, a man of wit and keen insights and a
delightful guy. In the courses I took from him
(1960-65), he displayed a feeling for the language
of literature that I had not seen before and rarely
have since.

It was his practice to read a lot from works dur-
ing class discussions. This was an approach fairly
unique to him at the time, and in listening to him
read from Shakespeare, 17th-century poets, Frost,
Yeats, Eliot, Pound, and numerous others, I began
to perceive for the first time the real power, depth,
and complexity of my own language. It is an ex-

46 W&L

perience I have drawn on repeatedly and with great
pleasure ever since.

When I was at Washington and Lee, Jim Boat-
wright enriched a very talented and devoted
English department, including, among others, Fitz
Flournoy, Sid Coulling, Severn Duvall, George
Ray, John Evans, and Robert Huntley. (I also had
an excellent freshman course from Douglas Day,
who later defected to U.Va.) My experiences as
a major in that department were so intellectually
rewarding and exciting that they spoiled me for
the comparative tedium and relatively uninspired
classes in the various graduate schools I attended
after leaving W&L.

It is a credit to Washington and Lee that it
recognizes, attracts, and keeps talented teachers
like Jim Boatwright—and hires them even when
they do not hold the Ph.D. union card. I hope the

one year before joining the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1929. At W&L Moger taught courses
in British history, general American history, and
the New South. His book, Virginia: Bourbonism
to Byrd, 1870 to 1925, was published in 1968 and
became the standard reference work with regard
to the development of the political mechanisms
that prevailed in Virginia during the first part of
the 20th century. He was also the author of The
Rebuilding of the Old Dominion, 1880-1902,
which was published in 1940. Moger’s work ap-
peared as well in the Journal of Southern History
and the Virginia Magazine of History and
Biography. He retired from the W&L faculty in
1975. Moger was a member of the Southern
Historical Association, the Tau Kappa Alpha
forensic society, Phi Beta Kappa, the Sigma Mu
social science society, Omicron Delta Kappa na-
tional leadership fraternity, and the American
Historical Association. He was president and vice
president of the Virginia Social Science Associa-
tion from 1947 to 1949. He served as president of
the Rockbridge Historical Society from 1973 to
1976 and was a former elder and member of the
board of deacons of Lexington Presbyterian
Church.

SUE CRUMLEY STEWART, managing editor of
Shenandoah, The Washington and Lee Universi-
ty Review from 1981 to 1985, died Dec. 2. She was
married to Robert Stewart, professor of music
emeritus at W&L. She was born in Appalachia and
educated at the American Conservatory in
Chicago. She came to Lexington in 1954 when her
husband was appointed to the Washington and Lee
faculty. Prior to being named managing editor of
Shenandoah, she worked at the Rockbridge Coun-
ty News and in the office of the assistant to the
president for institutional research and the
development office at W&L.

MARY VELMA TWOMBLY, widow of W&L’s
veteran coach and athletic director Edwin Parker
(Cy) Twombly and mother of artist Cy Twombly
Jr., ’53, died Dec. 28, 1988, in Hamilton, N.Y.
She lived in Lexington for 60 years before mov-
ing to Hamilton in June.

Letters to the Editor

emphasis upon character, talent, and the ability
and inclination to teach and learn in a small, in-
tellectual community like Washington and Lee—
traits that Jim Boatwright displayed in
abundance—will continue to be primary criteria
for hiring faculty members rather than a blind
reliance upon what many institutions consider the
necessary ‘‘academic credentials.”’ W&L’s em-
phasis on human as well as purely academic
qualities certainly paid off in the case of Jim
Boatwright.
Regards to the faculty and to English majors
everywhere.
WALTER H. BENNETT Jr., ’65
Chapel Hill, N.C.

EDITOR:

It is with a sense of genuine sadness that I learn-
ed of Jim Boatwright’s death last September. If
Washington and Lee means anything to me, it is
through people like Jim, who was my first
literature teacher. W&L has always had a reputa-
tion for small classes and faculty concern, but Jim
personified that ideal, for me at least, more than
anyone else.

Coming to college with a colorful (but not very
well-stuffed) patchwork quilt of knowledge—
which I promptly wore on my sleeve and paraded
in my exams and paper assignments—I could have
found myself in class with a professor who either
smiled benignly on my stentorian excesses or ex-
posed them for what they were. Jim did neither.
Although he never let anyone get away with easy
generalizations and cliches (and in this sense he
had ‘‘perfect pitch’’), he also understood the
vulnerability of young egos trying to express
themselves. He was, in short, the ideal heuristic
‘‘midwife’’ standing between the adolescent and
his slowly, sometimes painfully emerging mature
self.

Jim Boatwright was living proof that educa-
tion can indeed be a kind of parturient process,
and while he died in the absence of biological
children, he allowed many of us to give birth, dur-
ing our four years at W&L, to more humane,
understanding, and broadly cultured selves. I am
terribly sorry that he is gone and that his end was
so tragic; let us not forget, however, how much
he left behind.

Davip M. BETHEA, ’70
Madison, Wis.

The fraternity renaissance

EDITOR:

I write from several perspectives: as an alum-
nus, both of W&L and one of its frats, and,
presently, as an employee. I am also a Lexington
property owner; my family’s home is here. My sub-
ject is the Fraternity Renaissance Program,
hereafter referred to as ‘‘the FRP.’’

It will come as no surprise to anyone who has
toured any of the frat houses (save Phi Gamma
Delta [which was renovated in 1986] and possibly
Chi Psi) in recent years that local folk are not
without some basis in fact in perceiving said houses
as dens of iniquity. This has, alas, tended to rein-
force their image of W&L students in general as
spoiled brats speeding about in expensive foreign
cars, shouting obscenities out the window while
littering with imported beer bottles. One look in-
side a frat house merely places the frats in the
vanguard of the heathens.

In any case, seeing the presently fetid condi-

tion of the houses proves the inadequacy of the
existing system. Maintenance failure is now of suf-
ficiently long standing that many of these pestholes
are becoming—or already are—structurally un-
sound. Add to that their eyesore value within the
town, and their inevitably negative effect on
W&L’s overall image, and the need for change
becomes even more urgent, unless, of course,
furniture-burning becomes a socially acceptable
practice among the populace at large. I doubt that
will occur in a kinder and gentler nation.
__ All of which made some of the goings-on dur-
ing the FRP’s formal presentation in Lee Chapel
on Jan. 10, 1989, that much more dumbfounding,
nay, surreal to me.

Here were representatives of W&L’s leadership
offering to give the houses $5 million in home im-
Provement funds, as well as to secure long-term,

low-cost loans for an equal amount. So what sort
of inquiries were made during the question-and-
answer period?

Such burningly altruistic challenges as what
right the University thinks it has to regulate alcohol
use in the houses. The obvious answer is: the law
of the Commonwealth of Virginia, which was
more likely grasped by snide little ingrates than
the abstruse concept of W&L’s legal liability for
the consequences of out-of-control drinking. Cases
of this sort involving maiming and/or loss of life
have, in recent years, resulted in binding judgments
totalling far more than the cost of the FRP. That
nothing of this sort has yet occurred on our own
hallowed campus is more a matter of luck than
lack of opportunity for such tragedies.

What really galls me about this attitude shown
by some present frat members is more than mere-
ly their contemptuousness or self-righteousness.
It is their perversion of the practice of civil disobe-
dience. When students of my day sat in the streets
blocking traffic to the Pentagon, it was to protest
what we knew to be an unjust war. History has
proven us right. I doubt it will do the same for
these uppity little boozers.

I am unable to accept underage drinking to ex-
cess as a protest against much of anything except
the boredom that oozes from a lazy and inactive
mind.

I am glad to report that not all questions that
evening were so putrid in style or substance. For
the most part, gentlemanly conduct prevailed, and
few were those so illiterate as to fail to decipher
the handwriting on the wall.

The FRP is truly an amazing testament to how
highly we value traditions here. Many schools
would simply take the pragmatic tack and pull the
plug on a system so badly in need of resuscitation.
In recent years, several schools have done just that.

As far as I can tell, all that is being demanded
of the frats in return for the benefits of the FRP
is that their members, individually and collective-
ly, will be required to function as responsible
adults.

This seems reasonable enough. I salute the
wisdom of the promulgators of the FRP for realiz-
ing that such self-awareness is not something that
can be entirely imparted in the classroom, and all
WA&L frat brothers, present, past, and future,
should be grateful that these men were willing to
go to such lengths to offer the houses this new lease
on a better life.

While an equally compelling argument can be
made that the FRP is a case of throwing good
money after bad, I choose to hope instead that it
will help the a/ma mater turn out graduates with
more working knowledge about how the world
functions than mere good grades will provide. The
FRP is certainly an Olympic-qualifying leap of
faith, but it is within our grasp. The larger
problem—that of a hangover being considered a
status symbol—cannot be completely solved by the
FRP, but it is a huge step in the right direction.

W. PaTrRIcK HINELY, ’73
Lexington, Va.

The speaking tradition

EDITOR:
One of the finest traditions which has become
a part of my life resulting from my attendance at
Washington and Lee University is the matter of
saying ‘‘hello’’ to people. Many times I do it on
the streets of Lancaster, Pa., as well as elsewhere.
However, it never has occurred to me that
Washington and Lee University, in pursuing this
wonderful policy, has considered three aspects
that, in my opinion, would be valuable ‘‘moder-
nizations’’ of this tradition:
1) That we encourage students and others who
engage in it to do it elsewhere than Lexington, Va.;
2) That we encourage alumni to do it throughout
their lives as a way of making life more pleasant
for everyone;
3) That we reach within our reserves (whether
religious or otherwise) and express it, whether on
campus or elsewhere, with love (in essence express-
ing to others a form of human fellowship, which
in my life has come from God).
KENELM L. SHIRK Jr., ’71
Lancaster, Pa.

Mistaken identity

EDITOR:

It is always a pleasure to receive the Alumni
Magazine and review it to learn what is happen-
ing at Washington and Lee and also to catch up
on the whereabouts and activities of my law school
classmates.

When I read the ‘‘Alumni News’’ section in
the Fall 1988 issue, I was happy to see the
photograph of the meeting between Roanoke
alumnae and current female students from
Washington and Lee. I was also pleased to see
myself in the photograph and also to find that I
was being honored with being designated as Mary
Ellen Goodlatte, a Roanoke colleague whom I
respect and admire greatly.

You may want to let some of our mutual
friends know, however, that the person designated
as Mary Ellen Goodlatte in the photograph is in
fact me.

MELISSA J. WARNER, ’81L
Roanoke, Va.

W&L 47

 

ee ES a Se

 

Rat 4 RR a

HONORING

eo .

THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

1939

1964

Thursday evening, May 11

Reunion Keynote Address

Guest Speaker, Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.,
39—President Emeritus, The University of
Virginia (1959-1974), Trustee Emeritus,
Washington and Lee University (Active
1974-1986)

Kriday, May 12

Food for Thought: A Panel Discussion
“Two Career Couples—The Challenge to
Marriage and Family Life”

Special Event: “The W&L Quizbow!l”. Don’t miss this great

‘v2?
1949 1954
1974 1979

May 11, 12, 13

 

 

 

- +h

2

aiheen

OS

aT iil
PW

HE
ses 4s =

 

 

1959

1984

Cocktails with the Faculty: Honoring
I-Hsiung Ju, Professor of Art and Artist in
Residence (1969-1989), and Norman F.
Lord, Professor of Physical Education
(1946-1989) both of whom will retire at the
end of the 1988-89 session

Buffet Dinner

Reunion Dance featuring the Johnny
McClenon Big Band

Saturday, May 13

Annual Meeting of the Law School Associa-

tion in Lee Chapel

matchup! A team of the University’s finest will take on the

reunited GE College Quizbowl team from the Class of 1954.

Picnic Luncheon

Picnic Luncheon

Class Banquets and Parties

Special Events

The University Theatre will present
“Little Shop of Horrors”
May 12-20, 1989

General Alumni Association Meeting in Lee Chapel

Your Registration Material Is In The Mail—Plan To Register Early

The 1989 W&L Alumni College

Learning Vacations for Alumni, Parents, and Friends

 

Campus

July 9-15 World War II and Its Legacy

A review of the historical record of America’s involvement in World
War II, with discussions of political leadership, popular music,
the war in film, and the war on the home front supplementing an
overview of the major military engagements in the European and
Pacific theaters. With Larry Bland, Robert de Maria, Richard
Grefe, Barry Machado, James Robertson, and several guest
speakers.

July 16-22 Celts and Kilts: Ireland and Scotland
through the Ages

A brisk survey of the history of Ireland and Scotland, from Celtic
Origins to the twentieth century. Discussions of political history
along with art and architecture, W. B. Yeats, James Joyce, and
Robert Burns. This program will anticipate an Alumni College
Abroad to Ireland and Scotland in 1990. With Gilleasbuig Mac-

a7 Taylor Sanders, Pam Simpson, James Warren, and John
ilson.

July 23-29 The New Metropolis: Challenge and
Change in Urban America

Inspired by Tom Wolfe’s Bonfire of the Vanities, an examination
of several key issues facing modern American cities, from hous-
ing, race and class relations, politics, law enforcement and the
Courts to urban revitalization, architecture, and models for future
urban growth. With Randall Bezanson, Bruce Herrick, David
Novack, and Roberta Senechal.

Sn MG uk

a

(A

ye
,

od

ae .
=e YO Perils ae hi
oo = 6& at Stee
Gee
oo Meas ae has j Py

ra

Abroad

April 21-May 7 Europe at the End of Empire:
Leningrad, Budapest, Vienna,
Salzburg, and Munich

A follow-up to last summer’s campus program on the fall of Euro-
pean Empires, this year’s tour of Russia, Hungary, Austria, and
Germany will focus on the principal centers of Imperial Europe.
Luxury accommodations, musical performances, and special tours
throughout. With Maria Colvin, William Jenks, and Gordon Spice.
(Waiting list only)

November 4-12. St. Croix: The Ecology of an
Island

The ultimate biological field trip to appreciate the immense varie-
ty of flora and fauna on the U.S. Virgin Islands’ most
accommodating island, St. Croix. Tours of the rain forest,
botanical gardens, coral reefs, historical sites, sailing, swimming,
and sunning. Tour includes elegant Caribbean dining, choice of
lodging at Spratt Hall, an 18th-century Great House, or private
guest houses at Estate Northside Valley, and air. With Cleve
Hickman.

For further information, contact:

Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-8723

The Alumni Magazine of

Non-Profj ,
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ea
Pra Let ae
errenneth ~-

 

 

 

