the alumni magazine of washington and lee university W MARCH 1983 _

eS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 58, Number 2, March 1983

Frank A. Parsons, "54 ......... ccc ccc cece eee e eee e eect eee eeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................54. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ................. eee eee eee eee Associate Editor
Robert Fure ...............0ccceeee cece eee ee eees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter 2.0... .. ccc cece cece eee eee ees Editorial Assistant
Patricia B. Hale ............... cece eee ees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73) .............ceceeee ener ees Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Kirgis Is New Law Dean ................0:cceeeee ee eeee es l
Centennial of Lee Recumbent Statue .................... 3
The Wizards of Oz, Part II ............ 00. cece eee eee 7
Little League Chemistry? ............... 0... c cece seen ees 11
~On the Road to China ................ 0 cece eee e eee eee 13
W&L Gazette 2260.05.00. eee des ean ch ca) oe i 17
Chapter News »......5.20-.ugeyhee ike eee ee 26
Fancy Dress, 1983 2...4..i55.0---Jc a a
Canfield’s Milestone ................ Sa 28
Winter Sports Roundup ............00.....5)) Deedee tees 30
Class Notes 6) 050.0555, 8. a ee 31
In Memoriam ............... ic cashes. ss ees eee 40

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL LAbD III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
Owen H. Harper, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, °56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM McCLINTOCK III, 753, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, 750, New York City
WILLIAM C. NORMAN JrR., 56, Crossett, Ark.
Rick M. TILcey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

e
ON THE COVER: The Great Blizzard of ’83 quickly gave way
to the annual rites of spring—lacrosse and the Fancy Dress Ball.
Clockwise from upper left, two students battle the elements at
the height of an 18-inch snowstorm that hit the day before
Washington Holiday began; the Generals opened the 1983
lacrosse season less than three weeks after the big snow by
edging Duke; the 76th Fancy Dress Ball drew more than 4,000
to the Warner Center; and, the brothers of Sigma Chi celebrated
the 70-degree temperatures by relaxing in their rented hot tub.

The snow scene photograph is by Charles Mason, ’84, the other
three are by University Photographer W. Patrick Hinely, °73.

 

 

i |

 

 

 

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., director of
Washington and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law
Center, will become the dean of the W&L
School of Law in July.

Announcement of Kirgis’ appointment
was made in February by Washington and
Lee President John D. Wilson.

Kirgis will succeed retiring law school
Dean Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. in the position
Steinheimer has held since 1968.

‘‘T am delighted that Professor Kirgis has
decided to accept this appointment as dean of
our law school,’’ President Wilson said in
making the announcement. ‘‘Professor Kirgis
is generally considered to be one of this
country’s leading authorities in the area of
international law. He brings an ideal blend of
administrative competence, teaching
experience, and scholarship to this vital
position.’’

Kirgis was named the first director of
W&L’s Frances Lewis Law Center in 1978.
Prior to that, he had been a professor of law
at UCLA.

A native of Washington, D.C., Kirgis
received his undergraduate education at Yale
and his law degree from the University of
California at Berkeley. He was an associate
in the Washington, D.C., law firm of
Covington & Burling, specializing in

international claims, prior to entering
teaching. He was a member of the law
faculty at the University of Colorado from
1967 until he joined the UCLA law faculty
seven years later.

Currently, Kirgis is a visiting professor
of law at the University of Michigan, where
he is teaching courses in international law
and international organizations during the
winter term.

‘‘T am flattered and pleased to be asked to
be dean of the Washington and Lee School
of Law, and I am very much looking forward
to working with President Wilson,”’ said
Kirgis.

As the new dean, Kirgis inherits what he
considers a very healthy situation.

‘*The law school has been run well. Roy
Steinheimer has been an excellent dean and
is a very hard man to have to follow,’’ Kirgis
said. ‘‘This is not a situation of a new dean
who must come in and perform major
surgery.”’

Still, Kirgis has already pinpointed some
areas to which he will give immediate
attention.

One of those areas involves the so-called
‘“Woods Creek Gap’’—a generally accepted
notion that the law school and undergraduate
school at Washington and Lee have drifted

Rick Kirgis
[s Appointed
New Law Dean

Director Of Frances Lewis Law Center
To Succeed Roy Steinheimer In July

apart in recent years, particularly in the years
since the law school moved from Tucker
Hall on the Colonnade into Lewis Hall across
Woods Creek.

‘It is a difficult situation, partly because
of the fact that the law school is so
physically separate from the rest of the
campus,’’ Kirgis said. ““But it is something
to which I want to give a lot of attention.

**T think there are some things that can be
done. I am not sure I have really thought of
all those things at this stage. One instance is
that there are relatively few law faculty
members who serve on university-wide
committees. To some extent, that is
inevitable since there are certain university
committees that just do not touch on law
school interests. But there are committees on
which law faculty members could serve and
make a contribution. That is one way to
integrate law faculty members with the rest
of the faculty, to have them get to know
other people and become involved in
university affairs and not just law school
affairs.

‘*That is one small step that could be
taken. There are other steps as well. In
general, I am very much aware that a
problem does exist, and I want to do what
can be done to alleviate the situation.”’

 

Cy Re MME

Kirgis is New Law Dean

Kirgis wants to continue to build the law
faculty in terms of both its size and its
Stature.

**T think we still need to add a few more
faculty members to reach the goals of full
strength that we made when the school
moved into Lewis Hall,’’ he said. ‘‘I want to
pay really close attention to make certain we
get absolutely first-rate people, perhaps
including one or two new people who have
previous teaching experience at other schools
and have established something of a
reputation already. In addition I want to
continue to attract beginning teachers, people
who have been in private practice or
government service and have outstanding
records to bring.’”’ |

‘“We have done quite well in our faculty
recruiting to this point, and I want to
continue with that.”’

Too, Kirgis is hopeful that the law
school’s already strong reputation can be
enhanced and expanded to a national level.

‘‘T have found that Washington and Lee
is not as well known outside the South and
the East coast as it could be,’’ he said. ‘‘One
way it could be better known is through more
faculty research and scholarship which gets
published and circulated and through more
faculty activities in things like bar
association affairs and law school affairs
nationally.”’

Having taught at three large, state-
supported law schools, Kirgis is in a position
to strike interesting comparisons between
those experiences and his experience at
Washington and Lee. What he has found at
Washington and Lee that he did not find at
UCLA, the University of Colorado, or the
University of Michigan is ‘‘a sense of
community.’”’

While admitting that Washington and
Lee’s size has much to do with a certain
uniqueness he finds here, Kirgis insists there
is more to it than size.

‘In the cases of the three other law
schools at which I have taught, there is very
little sense of community—either between
the students and faculty or among the
students or even among the faculty,’’ he
said. ‘“They are not only too big, but the
people are there for such a diverse set of
reasons; they have such a diverse set of
goals. And the schools themselves don’t
have quite the attraction as institutions that
Washington and Lee has.

‘‘T?’m not sure I can put my finger directly
on it. For some reason that is not altogether
clear, Washington and Lee—both the
undergraduate school and the law school—

5

has a sense of community and instills in their
people a sense of loyalty that you just do not
find elsewhere. Maybe it is partly the
smallness, maybe it is partly the rural
setting. I think it is even more than that. It
has to do with the kind of people who have
been in charge over the years. And it has to
do with the kinds of people who go there—
people who tend to be good, solid citizens
who have attachments to values.’’

Though many observers are predicting
impending declines in law school
enrollments for the immediate future because
of what some see as a ‘‘glut on the market,”’
Kirgis says that while there are more lawyers
graduating from law schools than there are
‘“strictly legal jobs . . . that does not
necessarily mean that we are turning out too
many legally trained people.’’

There are, Kirgis noted, many jobs
outside private practice or government-
related legal practice for which law school
training is useful.

‘*T think there will always be a fairly
healthy demand for legal education,’’ said
Kirgis. ‘And even though we in the law
school world generally expect applications to
level off and decline somewhat in the next
several years because of the reduction in
numbers of purely legal jobs, I am pretty
confident that at a place like Washington and
Lee we will be able to maintain our academic
standards and be able to attract the kinds
of students we want to attract.”’

What does concern Kirgis, however, is
the ever-increasing cost of law schools in
general and private law schools such as

Washington and Lee in particular.

‘“We have to do even more than we have
been doing to raise scholarship funds and
loan funds to be made available to incoming
law students. We need to rely less and less
on the federal government to provide loan
guarantees,’’ Kirgis said.

While admitting that he does not have the
benefit of a crystal ball, Kirgis believes that
two areas that will be of major import in
legal education in the immediate future are
high technology, both in terms of clients who
have high technology businesses and lawyers
who use such technology in their own work,
and legal ethics, an area in which
Washington and Lee has been particularly
strong in recent years.

As director of the Lewis Law Center,
Kirgis has been actively involved in research
on a variety of topics at “‘the frontiers of
law.”’

Kirgis is the author of two books,
International Organizations in Their Legal
Setting, published in 1977, and Prior
Consultation in International Law: A Study
of State Practice, which is to be published
in 1983. He was elected to the American
Law Institute in 1981 and served on the
executive council of the American Society of
International Law from 1976 to 1979.

Active in community affairs in
Lexington, he is program coordinator of the
Lexington Youth Soccer Program and has
served as community coordinator for the
W&L Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship.

Kirgis and his wife, Carol, have two
children, Julianna, 20, and Paul, 15.

 

Kirgis (center) presides over one of the numerous symposia that he organized at the Lewis Law Center to
consider such diverse topics as uranium mining and international terrorism.

 

 

0060S ar™”~-—

 

 

 

 

Solving A Whodunnit

How Lee’s Sculptor Became Lee’s Greatest Admirer

Visitors to Lee Chapel often examine the
famous Recumbent Statue and ask, °‘Is Lee
asleep or dead?’’

This is followed by: ‘‘How much does
the statue weigh?’’ (Almost five tons). “‘Is it
made of marble?’’ (Yes). And, of course:
**Who done it?’’

Edward Virginius Valentine done it.

He was born in Richmond on November
12, 1838. At the age of 17, “‘Ned,’’ as he
was known, visited the World’s Fair in New
York where he saw his first exhibition of
sculpture. Enchanted, he knew then and
there he wanted to be a sculptor.

After courses in anatomy at the Medical
College of Virginia and some instruction on
modeling portrait busts, Ned, at the age of
21, left for Paris to study under Thomas
Couture.

Why Paris? He answers, years later,
‘*Richmond, with a population of only seven
thousand, had more Frenchmen than any
American city of its size. Almost all the
portrait painters were French. So were the
instructors of art and music and all the best
tailors and dressmakers. All that was

By Gerard Maurice Doyon
Professor of Art History

 

Edward Virginius Valentine

fashionable was French. No wonder I wanted
to study in Paris.’”’

Why Couture? Likely because he spoke
some English and welcomed American

students: William Morris Hunt, John
LaFarge, and Eastman Johnson, to name a
few.

Valentine could not have picked a better
teacher, nor a more demanding one. Couture
was a master draftsman and instilled in
Valentine a sense of form, the foundation of
sculpture. After a year with Couture,
Valentine spent a year in the studio of the
sculptor Francois Jouffroy to learn various
techniques. Then off for a tour of Italy, a
must in the aesthetic education of a sculptor,
where Ned had the chance to study many
examples of recumbent funerary figures from
the sentimental to the morbid.

By this time, Valentine felt he was ready
to study in Berlin under his favorite sculptor,
August Kiss. Kiss is responsible for a
sculpture entitled Amazon Attacked By A
Tiger at the entrance of the Berlin Royal
Academy of Art. A small model of it was
shown at the New York World’s Fair and, at
the sight of it, our lad from Richmond was
hooked on sculpture. Ned stayed four years
with Kiss, lodging with the master and his
wife, becoming as much a son as a student.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

John G. Zehmer Jr. (standing at right) gave the principal address at the opening ceremonies for the

Centennial Exhibition of the Lee Recumbent Statue in January. Also participating in the opening ceremonies
were Capt. Robert C. Peniston (seated at left), the director of Lee Chapel, and the author, W&L art history

professor Gerard Maurice Doyon.

It was while he was a student in Berlin
that Valentine made his first sculpture of
General Robert E. Lee. He was to make
eight other major figures of ‘“The General,”’
as he always called him in awe and respect,
more than any artist, earning him the title of
*“Lee’s Sculptor.”’

In 1864, Valentine received a photograph
of Lee sent through the blockade to Berlin
and used it for his first statuette of ‘“The
General.’’ The statuette was auctioned off at
a bazaar for the Southern cause in Liverpool,
and while its present whereabouts are
unknown, it may be somewhere in Scotland,
perhaps Glasgow. On your next visit to
Scotland, keep a sharp eye in junk shops and
flea markets for the original statuette. It
stands 18 inches high.

At the news of the death of his father in
1865, Edward Virginius returned home after
an absence of six years to set up a sculptor’s
studio in a carriage house on Leigh Street in
Richmond. The studio has been moved to the
courtyard of the Valentine Museum. The
artist filled it with artistic souvenirs of his
studies abroad, including a somewhat
macabre collection of death masks given to
him by the widow Kiss in Berlin.

Valentine soon received many
commissions, most for portrait busts of
Southern heroes—some taken from life, most
done from photographs. One of the
Southerners to pose for Valentine, pictured
in the heroic classical tradition, is well
known Rockbridge County native
Commodore Matthew Fontaine Maury,
modeled in 1869.

But, five years after his return from

Berlin, Valentine still had not had his hero,
‘*The General,’’ pose for him.

Lee’s modest war-time home was only a
five-minute walk from Valentine’s studio.
Yet, the paths of hero and admirer never
crossed, for Valentine was in Europe during
the war years and Lee was now away as
president of Washington College.

However, in May of 1870 Lee was in
Richmond for medical treatment. Valentine
saw the chance to meet his hero, perhaps to
make a life bust of the great man. In the
words of the artist, ‘“Mustering all my
courage I went to his house and, with knees
shaking, I asked the General if he would
allow me to take measurements of his face.
He graciously consented and walked with me
to the studio. The General wrote his name in
my autograph book, then sat down as I made
measurements of his face with calipers,
recording them in pencil on lined paper.”’

Every detail is noted, including the size
and shape of the General’s earlobe. The artist
observed with some excitement, “‘I may be
the first man to look under the General’s
mustache!”’

Valentine begged Lee to return for a
portrait bust, “‘the next time you are in
Richmond,’’ to which Lee answered, ‘“There
may not be a next time for I have a fatal
disease: old age.’’ The artist noticed that
‘‘although the General was exactly twice my
age (I was 31) the war had aged him
cruelly.’’

No sooner parted than Valentine wrote to
Lee in Lexington repeating his request for a
portrait bust, one done in Lexington.
Unfailingly polite, Lee granted him his wish,

 

‘*T will give you all the time I can.
Examinations are in progress but I can
arrange to give you an hour when needed.”’

Almost within the hour, Valentine was
on the train to Danville, changing to Goshen,
then by stage to Lexington, noting Goshen
Pass as being “‘indescribably beautiful.’’ He
arrived in Lexington on June 4, 1870, and
spent June 7 through June 11 modeling a life
bust of his hero.

Lee suggested he pose in his office, but
the artist feared the clay would dirty the
carpet and he had already rented a room in
the cellar of the hotel for a temporary studio.
(The name of the hotel is not given, but it
was likely the Central Hotel.)

Lee must have taken a liking to the
young man in that he dropped his formal
manner and began to tease him, almost
cruelly it seemed. When the artist
complained he had to borrow money to come
to Lexington, Lee answered, “‘Good!
Starving artists work harder.’’ And when
they entered a store on Main Street, Lee said
to Mrs. Archie Campbell, ‘‘Here is a young
man from Richmond, come to make a bust of
me. I wish you would sit in my place.’’ Lee
did not enjoy posing. However, he loved to
tease the ladies. ‘‘I wish you could sit in my
place’’ could mean “‘for you are prettier.”’

And, in the middle of the first sitting, the
young artist, possibly seeking some
sympathy, mentioned he was not well and
had to see a doctor. Lee examined the results
of that sitting and said, ‘‘Have the doctor
keep you ill a bit longer, your work is
improving.’’ The artist later forgave the
General for that remark when he realized that
Lee was in great pain at the time with a
sickness more serious than the artist’s
tummy-ache. In four months Lee would be
dead.

During the second pose, the artist
remarked that the General’s hair was
somewhat long. Lee got up, took a large pair
of the artist’s scissors used for cutting heavy
paper, and, without using a mirror, snipped
off several inches of hair from the back and
trimmed around the ears. Then he quietly
resumed the pose.

The result was the only portrait bust of
Lee made from life by Valentine or other
sculptors. All other busts are from
photographs. Therefore it is the most
accurate likeness of the General, humorously
acknowledged by Lee as ‘‘ugly enough to be
mistaken for me.”’

Mrs. Lee liked it, but found that it was
not handsome enough.

Between the daily poses, Valentine had
the foresight to make measurements of
Traveller, using a Miley photograph to enter
the dimensions. The artist noted that Lee

 

 

 

 

———=_el TE ee

 

 

spelled Traveller with a double-L in the
English manner. Later he entered in his notes
that ‘‘I was in Lexington when Traveller
died. Fortunately, had some measurements of
him in life.’’ These measurements became
useful in making a model for a proposed
equestrian monument to Lee.

Only three months after the funeral of
Robert E. Lee, a committee approved a
proposal to add a funerary chapel to the back
of Lee Chapel. The committee also changed
the name of Washington College to
Washington and Lee University. The
committee presented the plans to Mrs. Lee
for her approval, suggesting she decide on
the pose of the memorial statue. Mrs. Lee
wanted the General pictured as asleep on the
battlefield, not in death.

She favored Valentine as the sculptor and
instructed him to follow the pose in a
photograph of the monument to Queen
Louisa of Prussia in Charlottenberg by the
German sculptor Rauch.

The artist must have referred to the
photograph countless times, for it was
discovered among his papers, wrinkled and
torn from handling. Valentine informs us that
there is more truth than poetry in picturing
the General as asleep on the battlefield, for
he remembers a story told to him by one of
Lee’s soldiers, Eugene Davis of Richmond.
Having become accustomed to sleeping on
the hard ground as a soldier, Lee as a civilian
found it difficult adjusting to a feather bed.
When unable to sleep he would take his
pillow and blankets to sleep in the shed on a
wooden floor.

it was also the wish of Mrs. Lee that her
husband be buried in Lexington. She asked
the artist for his support against a popular
movement in Virginia to have the General’s
body moved to Richmond. The artist

Se
ae

a ae its Os a
CAB satan, sev Ry eT, Hy LOY

prea Se Be . | we
Almost 10,000 people filled the grounds of Lee Chapel for the statue dedication.

 

Valentine is pictured in his Richmond studio with the
bust of his favorite subject in the foreground.

supported Mrs. Lee in the stand that was
unpopular in Richmond. In appreciation,
Mrs. Lee sent the artist, through William
Pendleton, chairman of the committee for the
Lee monument, her favorite picture of the
General, taken and hand-tinted by Disderi, a
travelling French photographer. Mrs. Lee
liked it because “‘it didn’t make him look
older than he really is, as do other pictures.”’

In her eyes, artists and photographs never
pictured her dear husband handsome enough
nor young enough. She instructed Valentine
to correct this in his monument.

Five months after receiving approval
from Mrs. Lee, Valentine presented her and

 

 

the committee a plaster model for approval.
They loved it! The sculptor returned to
Richmond with a $15,000 commission, a
considerable amount at the time, but he did
not get rich on it. Almost all went for
expenses, including the cost of the marble.

As a creative artist, Valentine did not
copy the Louisa of Prussia pose exactly and,
as he went along, he constantly improved on
his own model. In the final statue, the head
is in silhouette, the body more relaxed, the
legs longer to make the figure more tall and
graceful. The drapery is simplified and much
less folded and twisted. The base is longer
and subordinated to the figure with the heavy
spools on the corners replaced with classic
fluting. There was one important change
from the model. Instead of heavy field
gloves on the model, the hands of the
finished statue are without gloves. A big
improvement.

Valentine faced the problem of preparing
a monument for a mausoleum yet to be built.
In his copy of the original floor plan, the
entrance is on the narrow side at the top. The
statue is placed with the head at the entrance.
The visitor’s first view of the statue would
have been Lee’s head. By giving the floor
plan one quarter turn the statue is seen in
profile.

Valentine went to work on the life-size
plaster model, which can be seen today in his
studio at Richmond’s Valentine Museum.

He had never studied Lee below the
neck. Since Robert E. Lee Jr., better known
as ‘‘Captain Bob,’’ was the son closest in
build to the father, he was recruited to pose
for the body. Plaster casts of Capt. Bob’s
hands served as models for the hands of the
monument.

But the boots were so small—size four,
equal to a size seven today—that the sculptor
had a boy pose in them.

Finally, a year after receiving the
commission, the life-size model was
complete in June 1872.

Now came the hard part, carving the
marble. Valentine wanted to use Virginian or
Southern marble for the memorial to the
Virginian and Southern leader, but no
flawless piece of white marble this size could
be found in the South. The Southern sculptor
resigned himself to using Yankee marble
from Vermont. The raw piece weighed
almost seven tons. The finished work is
almost five tons.

Under the supervision of Valentine,
Caspar Burbel, a highly-skilled stonecutter
from New York, chiselled the marble of Lee.
It is ‘‘heroic size,’’ almost one and a half
times life size. The carving was completed in
the Richmond studio on April 1, 1875, four
years after Mrs. Lee approved the model.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The money for the Lee memorial was
raised at much personal sacrifice in a land
impoverished by the war. The average
donation was from 25 cents to a dollar, some
of the money coming from the North. Much
of the $15,000 for the statue and $12,000 for
the mausoleum were raised by women
through bazaars, concerts, charity balls, even
bake sales. It took 12 long years.

The sculptor noted with great satisfaction
that a Yankee lady seeing the statue of Lee
admitted with a certain awe in her voice,
‘*He was a greater man than I thought he
was.’’ Success! The statue possesses the rare
power to move. It is Valentine’s masterpiece.

The statue left the artist’s studio on April
13, 1875. After a trip by wagon, train, and
canal boat, it arrived in Lexington four days
later. Ten students from Richmond College
(now the University of Richmond)
volunteered for the privilege of escorting the
statue.

Since the mausoleum to house the statue
had not even been started, it was stored in a shed
near Lee Chapel. It was not until eight years
later that the statue was in place.

Elaborate dedication ceremonies were
planned. Engravings from a Miley
photograph were sent to major newspapers to
announce the unveiling. Extra trains were
run on the Chesapeake and Ohio, the
Richmond-Alleghany, and the Shenandoah
Lines, bringing more than 10,000 visitors to
Lexington. Local hotels could accommodate
only a small percentage of the visitors. The
rest were warmly received in homes of
Lexingtonians in true Southern hospitality.

On June 28, 1883, under bright skies and
in pleasant and cool weather, almost 10,000
persons filled the ground in front of Lee
Chapel to hear Major Daniel deliver the
oration, ‘‘The Life and Character of Lee.’’
Without benefit of microphone, his powerful
voice kept the audience spellbound—**now
moving it to applause, now to tears’’—for
more than three hours.

The ceremonies ended with a poem by
Father Ryan, ‘‘Lee’s Sword.’’ The sword
was made in Paris during the war, ran the
Federal blockade, and was presented to
General Lee by an anonymous Marylander.
Inscribed on one side of the blade is
‘“General Robert E. Lee, C.S.A., from a.
Marylander, 1863.’’ On the other side, in
French, is ‘‘Aide toi et Dieu t’aidera’’—
**Aid thyself and God will aid thee.’’ The
sword was never surrendered. Grant allowed
Lee to keep it.

There seems to be a minor error by the
sculptor. The sword is on top of the blanket
as it goes under the hand but reappears as a
bulge under the blanket on the left side. It
would have had to pierce the blanket under

statue weighs almost five tons.

the hand. The sculptor never explained this
‘sword through the blanket.’’ Perhaps it was
one of the things that caused his hair to turn
white at 41.

While the artist was passing the time
before the unveiling ceremonies by making
sketches of the audience, word reached him
that the statue had a stain across the face. In
the eight years of storage, the roof of the
shed had leaked. Some acid was brought
from the chemistry department and the
sculptor removed the stain in time for the
unveiling. More white hair!

The ceremonies started at dawn at the
Stonewall Jackson cemetery, which holds a
later monument by Valentine, the statue of
Jackson, and ended at dusk at Lee Chapel
where the daughter of Stonewall Jackson,
surrounded by floral offerings, unveiled the
statue. At last the crowd, moving in long
lines, got the chance to file in silence up to
the Recumbent Lee and around him for hours
and hours in ghostly shadow.

There was a movement in 1923,
encouraged by an article in The New York
Times, to enlarge the memorial. It proposed
to more than triple the size of the chapel,
down to Jefferson Street. But the people of
Lexington objected so strongly that the
project was dropped. The artist, still active,
was pleased. A monument of Napoleonic
scale would be out of character to the humble
man. The artist recalled as a young man
‘‘trembling at the thought of meeting the
great man’’ only to find the college president
as modest in dress and speech as any of his
professors.

Later, when Valentine borrowed a

 

Valentine (standing at right) directs the work on the seven-ton piece of marble from Vermont. The finished

uniform from Mrs. Lee as model for the
statue, he noted that it was worn and
mended—and, more surprising, it did not
wear the wreath of a general, but the three
stars of a colonel.* It was the rank Lee held
in the U.S. Army when he, with great
sorrow, resigned his commission. Valentine
concluded that Lee did not want to spend
money for a fancy uniform when the South
was Starving.

And Lee never considered himself a
‘‘rebel.’? When the young artist, perhaps
trying to win favor with the old soldier,
boasted that he never accepted a sculpture
commission from a Yankee, ‘‘the General
reproached me softly with ‘Remember, we
are all Americans.’ ”’

Edward Virginius Valentine died in his
91st year on October 19, 1930, almost 60
years to the day after Lee’s death. The few
hours in those 90 years when Lee posed for
him changed the artist and the man. Lee’s
sculptor became Lee’s greatest admirer.

Valentine carved a monument to Lee. In
return, Lee immortalized Valentine. Perhaps
no other model in the entire history of art
could have done this, for Lee was a unique
hero. He was Caesar without his ambition,
Napoleon without his selfishness, |
Washington without his reward.

*Lieutenant generals in the Union Army wore three
stars, as in today’s U.S. Army. The three stars»
worn by Lee in the Valentine statue were those
worn by a colonel in the Confederate Army.
Confederate generals wore a wreath. In addition,
Valentine noted the braid on the sleeve of Lee’s
uniform ‘‘was that of a Confederate colonel, Corps
of Engineers.”’

 

 

 

‘“Well, one day I went up in a balloon and the ropes got twisted, so that I
couldn’t come down again. It went way up above the clouds, so far that a
current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles away. For a day and a
night I traveled through the air, and on the morning of the second day I awoke
and found the balloon floating over a strange and beautiful country.”’

The Wizard, in The Wizard of Oz

[t was somewhat like that. Each of the men from W&L who became
wizards in Hollywood happened on the mythical city almost by
accident, blown by chance winds. Mike Norell, Jeb Rosebrook,
Richard Sale, Paul Maslansky, Fielder Cook, and Stan Kamen—
the curious connecting quality in their lives, besides their small
Virginia college, is that none of them initially set out for
Hollywood. They simply landed there. And once on their feet, they
became the operators behind the screen, the engineers of fantasy in
the kingdom of dreams.

Part I The Wizards of Oz

PAUL MASLANSKY, ’54, PRODUCER P ar [ I I

 

 

 

 

Paul Maslansky’s flight began from Kansas City, appropriately.
But he dates his true adventures from his days at W&L. Kansas WkL’s Hollywood Connection
City was later, then Paris, Copenhagen, London, Rome, Israel, | |
Russia, Peru, and finally Hollywood.

Maslansky in his office with the Ladd Company on the giant
Warner Bros. Studio lot in Studio City, California. He is casually by Robert Fure
dressed in canvas shoes, with a lightweight pullover and slacks,
such as might be worn immediately before or after a game of tennis.
He looks good. He sports a full but neatly trimmed beard, which,
under his bright dark eyes, would give him a vaguely sinister air
were it not for his genially accommodating manner. He looks like
Rasputin grown healthy and mild after nine years on the West
Coast.

‘*When I arrived at W&L in 1950 it was my first time ever =.
away from New York City. All of a sudden I was, well, in an _ _
international society. There were boys from Texas and Georgia!
Also, I got to know blacks for the first time. At W&L, I was
exposed to a kind of American culture that I had never seen before.
There was incredible diversity. I was introduced to athletics,
academic subjects I had never heard of, music—I helped found the
Southern Collegians jazz band. I got to know professors and,
perhaps above all, a certain camaraderie, that ease between men that
comes from a totally male environment.’”’

Almost as an afterthought, he allows, ‘‘I flunked out my
freshman year—I was trying to do too much. But Dean Gilliam
phoned me at home to ask if I wanted to come back. He set a
regimen for me. He made me feel that W&L needed me. Things
went much better after that, and I made good marks. You know,
certain things are core in your life—your family and your college.
W&L is still that core, and very much a part of me.”’

Maslansky speaks with the earnest conviction of a man whose
profession it is to win people to his passions. But as an independent
film producer he also likes stories. Warmed by reminiscence, he
eases into an account of his most famous escapade.

‘“You know, back in those days guys didn’t have it so easy with
the girls—unless, of course, you were really serious. Well
sometimes a bunch of us would go over to Ruth’s Place in
Lynchburg or to a girl, also named Ruth, who ran a chicken farm in
Buena Vista. Sometimes the entire baseball team would go over.

On one bright, moonlit night, four of us (the infield) went over. We
knocked on the screen door and to our surprise a man’s voice
answered. We couldn’t see his face behind the screen because the
light was in our eyes, but he sounded kind of fierce. ‘I’ll give you ne
three seconds to get off this land.’ We were plenty scared. But Paul Maslansky

 

 

| PROD.NO. |Washiweron ¢ Lee

ms) oe eee
Be

 

instead of hightailing it out of there, we scrambled under the porch,
where we put together our escape plan. On the count of three we
scattered in all directions. The next thing I heard was a monstrous
explosion. I hit the ground. I felt as though my head had been
blown off. He had fired a shotgun and a pellet had hit me right next
to my eyeball. My friends came back for me and dragged me off to
the doctor. For a long time I wore an eyepatch, my badge of honor.
Of course, everyone knew how I’d gotten it. They were wonderful
days.”’

Maslansky rubs his eye. ‘‘Four wonderful years. On the
morning of graduation, at about 4:30 a.m., I climbed up on the
ZBT roof and played four tunes on my trumpet, ending with the
W&L Swing. I remember how the sound ricocheted down the
valley.”’

After graduation, Maslansky spent two years in the Army.
Thereafter, he joined his parents, who had moved to Kansas City.
He wanted to attend a good law school, but needed to prove himself
by taking some graduate work. After an M.A. in history at the
University of Kansas City, he entered law school at NYU. It wasn’t
quite to his liking, so a year later he returned to Kansas City, where
he took a job at a jazz radio station and drove a cab at night.

‘*T didn’t have a fix on what I wanted to do. One day in 1959
some friends asked me to join them on a trip to Europe. Just before
we were to leave, they cancelled out. But I went ahead anyway. I
took $300, my horn, and a roundtrip ticket. That was November
1959. I planned to return in a month. I stayed 14 years.”’

Maslansky landed in Paris, was soon out of money, but found
work playing with a band in a Parisian nightclub. *‘Paris in the 60’s
was vibrant with life. It was a vital time, very political, very
exciting. I got to know many fine people—writers, artists, students.
One day in my apartment building I met a young Danish fellow
who was a documentary filmmaker. We became friends and
developed a plan to make a film on the Fulbright Scholars living in
the city. We called it A Letter from Paris. He was the director and I
was the producer. I raised $3,000, borrowing money from my
parents and friends. I got Melvin Van Peebles to write the
screenplay for $25. We shot it and then moved to Copenhagen to
finish editing the film. Unfortunately, the Fulbright Foundation
didn’t buy it—they liked it but concluded it wasn’t academic
enough. So there we were, out $3,000 with no prospects.

‘*But I liked the business. A film editor I met in Copenhagen
took me on as his apprentice. Somehow I got work in a sequel to
The Counterfeit Traitor with William Holden, which was being
filmed in Denmark. I served as assistant director in the project, with
occasional work as an extra. I was making about $125 a month and
having a wonderful time.”’

Meanwhile, Maslansky submitted A Letter from Paris to the
Cannes Film Festival. To his surprise, it won an award. Soon
thereafter, it was picked up by Screen Gems of Columbia Pictures
for their newly formed documentary films department. Maslansky
paid off his debts. The film was soon broadcast on British
television. ‘‘Some people at Columbia in London saw it and
contacted me for an interview for a possible job in production. I put
on my one tweed suit—which I had bought in Lexington while I

8

was at W&L—and took the cheapest way over, in the belly of a
boat. They asked me how much I was earning. I told them $125.
They offered $150. I accepted. A short while later I discovered that
they meant $150 a week!”’

Maslansky was sent to Italy to work as production manager on
such films as The Running Man, Dr. Strangelove, and The Long
Ships. ‘‘By 1963 I had saved $8,000. I wanted to make my own
movie—a horror picture, which was the quickest way to make
money in those days. I got Christopher Reeves to star in it and
found a grotesque-looking man in London working on stage in The
Spoon River Anthology. That was Donald Sutherland. He had never
been in a movie. I paid him $50 a week and put him up in my
house. So for $125,000 I made Castle of the Living Dead. It did
quite well.’’

Thereafter, Maslansky did several more horror pictures, still
working independently. He became known as the Roger Corman of
Rome. ‘‘It was a happy, romantic, terrific time and place to be in
the film business. There was quite an American colony in Rome
then, and the Italian film industry was booming, so the talent was
unlimited. Then, in 1965, United Artists came to me looking for
someone to manage its European productions. I took the job and for
two years made lots of movies: King of Hearts, The Thief, Fistful of
Dollars, etc.”’

But, as a studio producer, Maslansky wasn’t quite as happy as
he had been working on his own. One day in 1967, an old pal, Ike
Pappas from CBS, phoned to tell him that war was about to break
out in the Middle East. Maslansky hopped on a plane to help
Pappas shoot footage. By the time he returned to Rome three and a
half weeks later, United Artists was a little cross, so he was an
independent filmmaker again.

‘*T had to scramble a little, but there was always work. I put
together a movie in Russia called The Red Tent, with Sean Connery
and Claudia Cardinale. It was the first Western-Soviet cooperative
film venture. I began to make pictures all over the place. After a
year in Russia, I did Eyewitness in London and Malta, a film in
Israel with Peter Ustinov, a jungle picture in Peru. But by 1973 I
hadn’t really had a hit yet, so I decided to try my hand at directing
in Hollywood.’’

Within a few months, hustling and bustling, Maslansky was ‘‘in
the mainstream’’ (there’s no mainstream in Hollywood—in
California things flow). He directed Sugar Hill, a modest film shot
in Texas, and an ABC Movie of the Week, Gun in the Pulpit.
Columbia Pictures asked him to produce Hard Times, with Charles
Bronson and James Coburn, which Maslansky agreed to do with the
understanding that he would be allowed to maintain his independent
status. This was followed by Race with the Devil, with Peter Fonda
and Warren Oats, Bluebird, with Elizabeth Taylor, and Damnation
Alley. His latest film is The Love Child, a movie about Terri Jean
Moore, the Florida prison inmate who won the right to deliver and
keep her baby, conceived in jail, while serving her sentence.
Maslansky knows a good story.

‘*Altogether, I’ve made 23 films. Nine of them have made
money. That’s a pretty good batting average. The industry average
is one out of seven. In a risky business, I’m known as a producer

 

 

who can deliver a picture within its budget projections. We made
Love Child for $3,330,000. Ten years ago we could have done it for
a third of that cost. Inflation has hit the industry pretty hard, and
these days interest rates are outrageously high. But if and when we
sell the picture to television, we’ll get our money out of it.”’

With Maslansky, each new project is his best. ‘‘The Love Child
is a great story. We got a terrific performance out of newcomer
Amy Madigan. The idea came to me while I was watching 60
Minutes. | saw a segment on Moore and thought it would make a
wonderful movie. I contacted her representative, a civil rights
lawyer in Atlanta, to secure the rights to her story. Then I arranged
development, auditioned for a writer, came to the Ladd Company
for financing, worked with the writer on the screenplay, got my
friend Larry Pierce (The Other Side of the Mountain) to direct the
picture, worked with him in casting it, looked for a location, shot
the film, edited it, packaged it, and now, two and a half years later,
it’s in the theatres. The early notices have been very positive, but so
far the numbers aren’t there. I may withdraw it for re-release later
this year with a new title and campaign or simply sell it to
television.”’

Maslansky stretches his arms across the back of his sofa. He is
an operator. He loves wheeling and dealing. The raw exuberance,
the zest with which he discusses his craft, requires large furniture—
his presence fills the room. ‘‘I’m in the business because I love
making movies. I love the feeling, I love the whole process of
beginning with an idea for a picture and working with it all the way
until you’re in the theatre with 600 people sitting around you
enjoying it, laughing or crying or whatever. There are producers
who simply make deals, or executive producers who take care of
the nuts and bolts once a project is under way. But I like working
with a picture at all stages, collaborating with writers, directors,
actors, editors, distributors, but independently, my own way.’’

Maslansky on the roof at 4:30 a.m. with his trumpet, exuberant.

 

FIELDER CooK, °47, DIRECTOR

 

Maslansky: ‘*Fielder Cook? Yes, I know Fielder. I love Fielder.
I worked with him on a picture once. | think it was called Eagle in
a Cage, which he eventually made in Yugoslavia. We were on a
plane returning from Sardinia early in the project. We had a few
drinks and got a little loaded. He was very elegant. I had always
thought that he was English. And then he mentions that he went to

The Wizards of Oz

Fielder Cook

Washington and Lee. ‘Washington and Lee!’ I exclaimed. ‘I
thought you . . . Well, you phoney!’ ”’

Maslansky’s error and affection are not surprising. There is
about Fielder Cook an air of beleaguered refinement, a sense of
defeated aristocracy, that seems vaguely British. Tall, grey-haired,
erect, with a ruddy complexion and innocent, hurt, baby blue eyes,
Cook moves and speaks in measures that suggest tried but secure
self-possession. One has the impression of grace surprised by
inquiry. The voice is rich, velvety, a late-night radio voice
broadcast from somewhere in the mid-Atlantic. One wouldn’t think
that Cook grew up in Staunton, Virginia, and Tampa, Florida.

Cook’s career at W&L was interrupted by the Navy. When he
returned, it was determined that he needed only one more year to
graduate. So in effect Cook spent only his freshman and senior
years on campus.

After graduation, Cook headed for New York City to enroll in
Columbia University’s School of Radio. The program was part of
the School of General Studies at Columbia, a night school primarily
for adults. ‘‘I attended classes only four nights a week. Since I had
nothing else to do, I took a job with an advertising agency, J.
Walter Thompson, where I was classified as an apprentice
executive. Actually I did little more than deliver messages. Still, it
was perhaps the best year of my life. I got to run all over the city
and soon knew all sorts of fascinating people.’’

Through his new responsibilities in advertising, Cook became
involved in television. Working through the agency, he was
assigned as assistant to the Kraft Television Theatre. ‘“Television
was very small in those early days. The NBC Network included only
New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington. But there were
lots of opportunities. I watched directors, and that’s how I got
started really. It was mainly luck—being in the right place at the
right time. My first job as a director was with Believe It or Not. In
1950, they gave me the first galmour show of television, The Lux
Video Theatre. In 1955, out of the television success I had had, I
made my first movie, Patterns, for United Artists. And then in
1961 my first Broadway play, A Cook for Mr. General.”’

Cook’s modesty—or perhaps his memory—permits him to list
only his first achievements as a director in the various media. A
more complete catalogue of his work is indeed impressive. In
television he directed many productions for Kaiser Aluminum Hour,
Studio One, U.S. Steel-Goodyear Playhouse, Theatre Guild of the
Air, Playhouse 90, and DuPont Show of the Week. He directed pilot
films for Ben Casey, The Eleventh Hour, Going My Way, Mr.
Roberts, The Waltons, and Beacon Hill. His feature film credits

 

es

st

oy

3

~”

wo

 

Little League Chemistry?

W&L, VMI Professors Join Forces To Promote Sciences in Lexington

You have heard, no doubt, of Little
League Baseball and youth soccer and the
Pop Warner Football League.

But have you ever heard of Little League
Chemistry? How about youth psychology?
The Albert Einstein Physics League? You
haven’t?

Although it goes by a somewhat more
sophisticated name—the Lexington Academy
of Science—a new program designed by two
science professors at neighboring Virginia
Military Institute and Washington and Lee
University is attempting to do for budding
scientists what well-known youth athletic
programs have been doing for budding
athletes for years.

Formed last fall through the joint efforts
of Dr. Frank A. Settle, professor of
chemistry at VMI, and Dr. H. Thomas
Williams, professor of physics at W&L, the
Lexington Academy of Science has joined
forces with teachers at Lexington High
School to provide high school students with
Opportunities for advanced studies in the
sciences and mathematics.

‘*There is so much volunteer work in a
city such as Lexington, but a great deal of
it—for the young people, at least—has
traditionally been aimed at athletics,’’ said
Williams. ‘‘It seems only appropriate that we

do the same sort of thing in other areas.
Personally, I had spent a lot of time with
various athletic leagues. And I began to
worry that I had been neglecting the
possibility of similar volunteer work in an
area where I have some expertise.”’

Settle and Williams began the program
by enlisting the volunteer assistance of a half
dozen of their colleagues and then contacting
Lexington High School officials to offer their
services.

The result has been that 18 Lexington
High School juniors and seniors have been
participating in the program this year,
spending an hour or two each week working
on an almost one-to-one basis with one of the
university professors who volunteered.

For instance, Col. Richard B. Minnix,
professor of physics at VMI, has two
students working on a project involving laser
photography; W&L psychology professor
Leonard Jarrard has two students
participating in his continuing research into
the brain; and, Lt. Col. Henry D. Schreiber,
associate professor of chemistry at VMI, has
two students studying the chemical properties
of glass.

The other professors working as
volunteers in the program are Dean Foster
and Richard Richarde, professors of

 

psychology at VMI; Lt. Col. Kenneth A.
Abernethy, associate professor of
mathematics at VMI; and, Robert Wilson
Sr., retired chairman of the mathematics
department at Ohio Wesleyan and formerly a
mathematics professor at W&L.

‘We have a unique situation in
Lexington with two colleges possessing
excellent science and mathematics
departments,’’ said Settle. ‘‘Over the years,
we have been able to develop close
relationships with the science and
mathematics teachers in the high school. We
have, I think, tried to help out without
attempting to dominate, which could be a
danger. The relationship was already there.
This was a way to further it.’’

Once Settle and Williams had recruited
their volunteers and the high school had
helped identify students who had interests
and potential in science and mathematics, the
program began by offering the students
choices of the projects in which they wanted
to participate. |

‘After the students selected the project,
they began working on their own with the
professor involved in that particular
project,’’ explained Williams. ‘‘Mostly, it
has involved between one and two hours
each week, although some of the projects

Physics professor H.

Thomas Williams (left) and
former mathematics professor
Robert Wilson Sr. (center)
work with Lexington High
School student Theresa
Zybko on a computer

project as part of the
Lexington Academy of
Science program.

11

 

Little League Chemistry?

may involve work at home.’’

As Settle observed, the students will not
be discovering any new theories of relativity.

‘‘In the time frame we have, there are not
going to be any scientific breakthroughs,’’
Settle said. ‘“That is not the point, however.
What we can do in this time frame is expose
the students to the more sophisticated
equipment the colleges possess and also
expose them to a close working relationship
with scientists and mathematicians to see
how they think and how they work.

‘*The student participants do not receive

grades. Nor do they get any credits for the
work.

‘On one level, they are involved simply
because it is interesting and fun for them,”’
said Williams. ‘‘The very basic goal is
simply to get the kids interested.’’

Indications are the program has achieved
the goal.

‘*It has been fantastic from our point of
view,” said Paul Leonhard, a chemistry
teacher at Lexington High School who
assisted the Lexington Academy of Science
in organizing the program. “*Kids are
constantly coming to me and showing me the
results of the research they’ve been doing
and are excited about what they can do.

‘*The most valuable part of the program,

from what I have seen, is the way it has
taken some of the intimidation out of science
for some of these students who might have
had the interest but were a bit intimidated.’’

Both Settle and Williams emphasize the
positive role that Lexington High School has
played throughout the development of the
program.

‘‘Tf it works, it has to work from the high
school’s end of things,’’ said Settle. ‘‘We’re
lending some things we have to lend. The
high school is providing the framework for it
to succeed.”’

Even though there are no grades or
credits, there may be a payoff of sorts down
the line.

Settle and Williams are hopeful that their
young participants will eventually turn their
projects into papers that will be presented
each year at the Virginia Junior Academy of
Science (VJAS).

‘*Henry Schreiber has used high school
students in several of his funded research
projects in the past and has had a great deal
of success in having those students present
papers to the Junior Academy,’’ Settle noted.
‘‘In several instances, the students have
brought back awards. Our ultimate goal is to
have such papers presented routinely. We
might have papers generated this year. But

 

At left, Lexington High School students (from left) Emily Scott, Hugh Jarrard, and Scott Williams take part in experiments under the guidance of VMI chemistry

there is no doubt the potential is there for
substantial research to be reported at such a
statewide meeting in the future.

‘*That,’’ Williams adds, ‘‘is the students’
Super Bowl.”’

In addition to the work being done on
various projects, the academy’s
participants—professors and students—meet
formally at various times during the year to
hear reports on research, to share
experiences, to eat pizzas, and to play some
volleyball.

‘‘We’re experimenting with the program
right now,’’ noted Williams. ‘‘We’re looking
around on the national level and finding what
is happening at various levels of science
education. There is no question such
programs can be successful and can become
important factors in providing the nation with
well-trained scientists, mathematicians, and
engineers.

Added Settle: “‘If these students were
good ball players, then there would be no
problem finding them the right equipment
and the guidance. If they’re talented in math
and science, it has been up to them to reach
out in order to maximize their potential.
What we are doing is providing them with
the opportunities to develop their skills and
interests.’’

 

professor Frank Settle while, at right, Lexington students (from left) Hugh Jarrard, Amanda Badgett, and Lynne Draper conduct experiments in the W&L

psychology laboratories.

12

by Jeffery Hanna

On The Road To China

The People’s Republic Through The Eyes Of W&L History Professor Roger Jeans

With the sort of detail you would expect
from an historian, Roger Jeans can recall the
precise moment that it all began.

The year was 1965. Jeans was working
for the National Security Agency in suburban
Washington, D.C., and had just been
transferred to a new division.

As he was settling into his new
surroundings, Jeans just happened to peer
over a Set of filing cabinets into the adjoining
office. There, he saw a roomful of people
poring over pages and pages of Chinese
characters, translating the Chinese into
English.

‘*T remember saying to myself, ‘Gee, that
sure looks a lot more interesting than what
I’m doing,’ ’’ Jeans says.

So he promptly finagled a transfer to the
other side of those file cabinets and waded
into the Chinese. And that is the story of
how Roger B. Jeans Jr., associate professor
of history at Washington and Lee, wound up
traipsing about the People’s Republic of
China conducting research on a political figure
named Carsun Chang.

Granted, a trip to China may seem almost
routine nowadays. Ever since Richard
Nixon’s historic visit to Mainland China in
1972, there has been a steady stream of
tourist traffic. China suddenly became the
‘‘in’’ place to visit. Slides of the Great Wall
were sure to wow the neighbors back home.
As Jeans observes, *‘Once China was opened
up, everyone wanted his ticket punched.’’

But the China that tourists see bears only
superficial resemblance to the China that
Jeans saw during the five months he spent
there—five months riding from city to city
on the overcrowded trains; five months
sleeping in underheated apartments, worried
about breathing the fumes from the charcoal
fires but too cold to worry that much; five
months studying yellowed newspaper
clipppings in dimly lighted libraries; five
months . . . ah, but we’re getting ahead of
the story. To back up a bit.

* * *

Jeans, who majored in European history
at Colby College, was pursuing his master’s
degree in that subject at American University
when he ‘‘discovered’’ China and its history
from across his file cabinets. That new
interest led him to transfer to George
Washington University, where he earned his

 

in Kunming.

Ph.D. in East Asian history and wrote his
dissertation on the early years of Carsun
Chang, a politician who had been active
during the Republican Period (1912-1949) in
China.

After receiving his doctorate in 1974, Jeans

 

W&L history professor Roger Jeans and his fierce friend, a traditional guardian of Buddhist temple gates,

 

joined W&L’s history department. He teaches
courses in East Asian history, including a
seminar on Mao Tse-tung (whose smiling
visage Occupies a prominent spot on one wall
of Jeans’ Newcomb Hall office) and the
Chinese Communist Party.

13

 

 

On the Road to China

 

In the fall of 1979, Jeans met two history
professors from China at a conference in
Washington, D.C. Back in Lexington a few
weeks later, he decided to write one of his
new Chinese acquaintances and inquire,
quite informally, about the possibility of
arranging a visit to the People’s Republic to
pursue research while on sabbatical during
the 1981-82 academic year.

‘“We exchanged a few letters, and the
man agreed to help,’’ Jeans says. *“But even
with his help, it took forever. I was supposed
to leave on October 1, 1981. I left on
November 11. It took six weeks beyond my
original departure date to squeeze my visa
out of the Chinese Embassy in Washington. I
think this demonstrates that while we
complain about an unwieldy bureaucracy in
this country, the Chinese have had 2,000
years experience creating red tape. They’re
experts at it.’’

Jeans had already waited 16 years to get
a firsthand look at the country in whose
history and culture he had become immersed.
Those final six weeks of waiting, not
knowing when—or if—he would be able to
leave, were nearly unbearable for him.

‘*T had almost despaired of ever getting
to China when the telephone rang at 8
o‘clock one Sunday morning and a woman
from the Chinese Embassy told me, quite
matter-of-factly, that I could pick up my visa
any time,’’ Jeans says.

14

On his visit to the Great Wall, Jeans encountered a group of Tibetan tourists out for a jog.

9

around by their guides.’

The other track, the one Jeans took, is
built on guanxi, a Chinese term that means
‘“connection.’’ Jeans’ journey was across a
network of guanxi—connections that had
been arranged by his original Chinese
contact. The guanxi enabled Jeans to avoid
many potential bureaucratic obstacles. For
five months, he traveled on his own—no
guided tours, no comfortable hotels, no
‘“super Japanese-made busses.”’

He stayed in visitors’ quarters on
university campuses. He ate in the university
dining halls. He rode the trains. He studied
in the libraries. And he spent many evenings
trading stories with Chinese historians,
speaking only Chinese, albeit with a definite
trace of his native Maine in the accent. (“My
Chinese,’’ Jeans says, ““was described as
‘adequate.’ At least I was understood.’’)

Obviously, Jeans’ impressions of China
are considerably different from the
impressions a typical tourist might get on a
two-week tour of the country’s major
attractions.

And what were his impressions?

‘*Mixed,’’ Jeans says, the ambivalence
evident in his response.

On the one hand, there were the people
of China, particularly those with whom he
had guanxi.

‘*The people could not have been nicer or

One adventure had ended. Another was
beginning.

*K * *K

There are, Jeans suggests, two primary
‘*tracks’’ on which visitors to China travel.
The first—and most familiar—is the **two-
week quick trip.’’

‘*On that track, tourists are met at the
airport and bussed around in super Japanese-
made busses. They go to the nicest hotels
and to the tourist sites and are shepherded

 

A proud papa tends to his twins on the street of Sian, a city in northwest China.

warmer Or more accommodating,’’ he says.
‘Because of my connections in the various
cities, I was able to gain access to libraries
that I would not otherwise have been able to
use. I could go places I could not otherwise
go. I could come and go as I pleased,
something that would have been unheard of
three or four years ago.

‘*In fact, people I met along the way,
both Westerners and Chinese, were surprised
to find me wandering around on my own. I
went many days at a time without seeing
another foreigner. When I rode the trains, I
rode ‘hard class’ where I would share a
railway car with 60 or more Chinese
crammed into a series of open cubicles with
six hard bunks to a cubicle.

‘“The trains were drafty. There was no
privacy whatsoever. And it got very tiring.
But I deliberately chose that class rather than
the so-called ‘soft class’ in order to meet
more Chinese. And I did hear more stories
that way, although I learned quickly that
unless you have guanxi with someone, some
Chinese are quite wary about talking to you.
I had this feeling that through 33 years of the
People’s Republic, people had become quite
expert at not telling anybody more than is
absolutely necessary.’’

Those experiences were the exception.
Mostly, Jeans remembers the warmth of the
people. He has vivid memories of Christmas
Eve 1981 when he was alone in his drafty
apartment at Southwest Teachers College in
Chungking and his hosts paid a visit “‘to
make sure I wasn’t too lonely and to bring
me some yellow flowers and calendars for
the coming year.’”’

There are memories, too, of New Year’s
Eve when several members of the Yunnan
University history department gave a party
for him. ‘‘And I spent Chinese New Year’s
Eve in Nanking in the apartment of one of
the better known Chinese historians, sharing
a dinner with him and talking for hours in the
tiny kitchen of his tiny apartment.”’

Aside from the people, however, Jeans’
overwhelming impression of China was that
it is a grim and dreary place.

‘*Sylvia, my wife, has told me that it
seemed so dreary to me because it was
winter. Partly that’s true,’’ Jeans says.
‘‘And, to be sure things have improved in
China since the old days of mass famine and

 

 

One of the few remaining portraits of Mao Tse-tung hangs on the front of the Gate of Heave

 

 

Forbidden City in Peking. The slogan on the left translates ‘‘Long Live the People’s Republic of China.”’

Jeans is standing in the foreground at left.

On Christmas Eve members of the history department at Southwest Teachers College in Chungking paid

 

Jeans a visit and presented him with a calendar and flowers.

even since the Cultural Revolution.

‘*Yet, I had the feeling that whereas in
the old China there might have been a certain
percentage of people who did well, an
upperclass of sorts, today everybody lives on
the same grim, low level with the exception
of the highest-ranking Chinese communist
cadre and military men.

‘*China is definitely not a classless
society. You see big-shots riding around in
limos as long as any you might see in
Washington or New York.’’

Most depressing of all for Jeans was the
overriding sense of hopelessness he felt
pervaded the country.

‘“The busses and trains are overcrowded.

I5

 

 

On the Road to China

The living quarters are too small and are very
dreary and dim with gray concrete floors and
gray concrete walls, left over perhaps from
the Cultural Revolution when it was
considered bourgeois to decorate your
apartment.

‘‘Everything about your life is regulated
by the ‘unit’ to which you belong. Your unit
might be the history department of the
university where you teach or the particular
area of the factory in which you work. The
unit controls everything. It regulates the
ration coupons you must have for food. If
you want furniture, you have to put your
name on a list with your unit months in
advance. If you want a bicycle, you have to
get permission of your unit and if your name
is not near the top of the list, it may take
years to get the bicycle. The unit even tells
married couples when they are allowed to
have a child. Each unit keeps a dossier on
every member, and the members are never
permitted to see what is contained in the
dossier. It is a very grim existence.

‘*Then, too, the quality of goods is poor.
Thé quality of services is fairly poor.

‘*And how can they look for
improvement with 1.1 billion people in
China? Resources are scarce. Housing is
scarce. How can you improve it? It’s a
Malthusian nightmare. It breeds a sense of
demoralization, hopelessness, cynicism. ’’

Perhaps what served to deepen Jeans’
despair is the fact that, insofar as the
government is concerned, circumstances are
far better in China today than they were only
a few years ago.

‘*There is no question that there has been
a thaw in the years since the Cultural
Revolution and Mao Tse-Tung’s death and
the trial of the Gang of Four,’’ Jeans notes.
‘The very fact that I was able to travel
around as freely as I did is an indication of
such a thaw.’’

Jeans observed other indications: The
huge slogans of Mao, once pervasive, are
seldom in evidence, having either weathered
and faded or been removed—a visible
symbol of change. The current regime has
taken great pains to emphasize that a new
party purification campaign, scheduled to
begin this year, would not be characterized
by the violence of the past when there were
public beatings and people were paraded

16

    
   

through the streets wearing tall, white dunce
caps during the Cultural Revolution.
Thousands of Chinese students are being
allowed to travel to the West to study. There
is a Stirring interest in religion which the
government is permitting to occur.

‘*T felt a little bit uncomfortable coming
right out and asking people about their
feelings toward Mao. Their answer, the party

Jeans met this genial Chinese gentleman on board
a ship passing through the Yangtze River Gorges.

line, is that Mao made some mistakes—not
crimes, just mistakes,’’ Jeans says.
‘*Secretly, I am sure they recognize what it
was all about. But now they have Deng
Xiaoping (vice chairman of the Chinese
Communist Party), and Deng is much better
than the people who came before. The
sentiment I heard most was gratitude toward

 

Deng.

‘‘Make no bones about it, China is still a
totalitarian regime. But under Deng, it is a
more moderate regime. There is no
difference in the nature of the beast, though,
he’s still got the same spots.”’

Jeans worries about being perceived as
too negative, too harsh in his assessment of
life in the China he saw. He worries
particularly when he recalls the attitudes of
the people with whom he met.

‘‘My hosts managed somehow—I don’t
know how—to be remarkably cheerful about
losing years out of their lives during the
Cultural Revolution,’’ he says. ‘‘Perhaps
they were exceptions. Perhaps they were
simply disguising their despair well. I was
filled with admiration for their ‘upbeat’
attitude—an attitude that tempers the
otherwise negative impressions I have.’’

His ambivalence about the China he
found has not diminished Jeans’ interest in
the least. If anything, the journey only
reaffirmed for Jeans the importance he
attaches to the study of China, its history an
its culture.

‘*More than ever, I think it is important
for students in this country to be studying
China. There is the obvious strategic
reason—China is very important in the
United States’ Asian policy,’’ Jeans says.

‘‘Beyond that, it is important for
American young people who are sometimes
very provincial to know something about
what is transpiring in China and in other
countries. I remember a student during the
spring seminar on Chinese communism who
never said a word until just near the end of
the term and suddenly blurted out, ‘Why are
we studying these commies?’ Everybody was
stunned by this reaction. The only thing I
could think of at the time was ‘Well, we
study Genghis Kahn, too. But that doesn’t
mean we agree with or approve of what he
did.’

‘*What I discovered firsthand on my trip
was that when you go outside this country
and immerse yourself in another culture as I
did, the scales drop off your eyes, and you
see your Own country in entirely different
ways.”’

All of which goes to show that you never
know what adventures might be lurking on
the other side of your filing cabinets.

& Gazette

 

 

Law library receives
Caldwell Butler’s papers

M. Caldwell Butler, former U.S.
Representative from Virginia’s 6th
Congressional District, has given the bulk of
the personal papers from his five terms in
Congress to the Wilbur C. Hall Law Library
at Washington and Lee.

Butler, a Republican, did not seek
reelection for a sixth term and is currently a
partner in the Roanoke law firm of Woods,
Rogers, Muse, Walker & Thornton.

On two previous occasions, Butler had
given personal papers to the W&L law
library, and that material is already a
valuable part of the library’s special
collections. He first gave the library most of
the papers surrounding his participation in
the impeachment inquiry of former President
Richard M. Nixon. Later, he gave the Hall
Law Library his notes and other items
generated by his participation in drafting
bankruptcy reform legislation.

By giving Washington and Lee the
remainder of his papers, Butler has provided
an extremely valuable addition to the law
library collection, said Sarah K. Wiant, law
librarian and assistant professor of law at
Washington and Lee.

‘*These papers will be a rich resource for
scholars working in the area of Watergate or
researching the legislative history of the
Bankruptcy Act,’’ Wiant said.

‘‘Our students will benefit greatly from
the presence of these papers because they
offer an explanation of the events not
generally available from other sources,’’ she
added.

Included in the Butler materials are taped
interviews with Butler concerning the
impeachment hearings.

*“Those audiotaped interviews with
Representative Butler conducted by Wayne
Woodlief, a Washington correspondent,
represent the only known oral history of the
House Judiciary Committee impeachment
proceedings against President Nixon,’’ Wiant
noted.

A native of Roanoke, Butler received his
undergraduate degree from the University of
Richmond and his law degree from the
University of Virginia. He practiced law in
Roanoke from 1950 until his election to

Congress in 1972. He was elected to the
Virginia House of Delegates, where he
served as minority leader, in 1962.

During his 10 years of service in
Washington, Butler was part of many
important activities in the Congress. He
participated in the impeachment inquiry of
Nixon and the confirmation hearings of Vice
Presidents Ford and Rockefeller. He was a
member of the House Judiciary Committee,

 

 

Law Librarian Sarah K. Wiant examines a portion of the Butler papers.

 

where he served on the Subcommittee of
Monopolies and Commercial Law and the
Subcommittee of Courts, Civil Liberties, and
the Administration of Justice.

He was the ranking Republican on the
Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional
Rights. He was also a member of the
Committee on Government Operations,
where he served on the Subcommittee on
Manpower and Housing and the

17

 

Le Gazette

Subcommittee on Legislation and National
Security. He served on the Republican Task
Force on Congressional reform, the
Republican Task Force on Crime, and the
Republican Task Force on Election Reform.

In 1978, Washington and Lee awarded
Butler its honorary degree of Doctor of
Laws.

‘‘T have always considered that honorary
degree from Washington and Lee the highest
honor I received during my Congressional
career,’’ Butler said recently. “‘I have always
had the greatest respect and admiration for
Washington and Lee University.”’

Butler explained that he felt it appropriate
to give his papers to the W&L law school
since he was representing the Lexington area
in Congress, adding that ‘‘I am grateful the
university accepted my offer and has been
kind enough to take these materials off my
hands.’’

The Hall Law Library at Washington and
Lee’s School of Law is named in honor of

Wilbur C. Hall, the late Virginia practitioner
and law school graduate. ‘The library’s
collection currently numbers more than
200,000 volumes and has tripled in size
during the past 10 years. The library
occupies 50,000 square feet of Lewis Hall,
the law school building that opened in 1976.

 

 

In the arts

—Two Washington and Lee musical
organizations were on tour during the
University’s annual Washington Holiday in
February.

The Washington and Lee Glee Club
presented a series of five concerts in Texas.
Directed since 1973 by Gordon P. Spice,
associate professor of music, the 37-member
glee club began its tour with a concert at the
First Presbyterian Church in Dallas. The
other concerts were given at St. Mark’s
School in Dallas, St. Luke’s Episcopal

Church in San Antonio, St. Luke’s
Methodist Church in Houston, and St. John’s
School in Houston.

Meantime, the Washington and Lee Brass
and Percussion Ensemble was touring several
resort locations in Florida and the Bahamas,
including appearances on the Tomorrowland
Stage in Disneyworld and aboard the cruise
ship Amerikanis. Robert Stewart, professor
of music at W&L, is the director of the Brass
and Percussion Ensemble.

—A Life in the Theatre, a one-act play
written by David Mamet, was presented by
the University Theatre in February in the
Boiler Room Theatre.

Drew Perkins and Ted Petrides, juniors at
Washington and Lee, directed the play,
which featured Albert Gordon, professor of
fine arts at W&L, and W&L junior Bob
Ferguson as the two characters in the
production. The production was a project of
a W&L class in advanced directing.

—The Washington and Lee University

 

 

Tina Ravenhorst departs
after spending 30 years
as secretary to W&L Presidents

More than one era ended at Washington
and Lee back in January.

The Huntley era ended when Dr. John D.
Wilson took the oath of office as Washington
and Lee’s 21st president, thereby succeeding
Robert E. R. Huntley in the post Huntley
had held for 15 years.

But Huntley was not the only occupant of
the president’s office to be departing.

Albertina Ravenhorst left, too, after
having spent the past 30 years as the personal
secretary to four Washington and Lee
presidents.

Miss Ravenhorst, who came to
Washington and Lee in 1943, will continue
to serve as Huntley’s secretary on a part-time
basis now that the former president has taken
up residence in the W&L School of Law
where he will resume teaching next fall.

Primarily, though, she intends to spend
her time on such pursuits as reading,
gardening, singing with the Trinity United
Methodist Church Choir, and catching up on
visiting with friends.

Not that she won’t miss the often frantic
pace of the president’s office.

 

Albertina Ravenhorst

‘*It would be foolish for me to say that I
won’t miss what was for me a.very
fascinating job,”’ she says.

Miss Ravenhorst began working for
Washington and Lee in the alumni office.
She later moved to the Bicentennial Office,
which coordinated events to celebrate the
200th anniversary of the University’s
founding back in 1949.

In October 1952 Dr. Francis Pendleton

Gaines, Washington and Lee’s 17th
president, asked Miss Ravenhorst to become
his secretary, succeeding Miss Ella Webster
who had been Dr. Gaines’ secretary for 22
years. Until January, Miss Ravenhorst had
been in the president’s office ever since.

Miss Ravenhorst recalls two events as
‘the big excitements’’ of my career at W&L.
Both were gifts given to Washington and
Lee: A $9 million gift from Frances and
Sydney Lewis of Richmond that was used to
construct the new law school building at
W&L and the $12 million bequest of John
Lee Pratt.

‘“Those two events are the most
memorable for me and were, of course,
important parts of the incredibly successful
development program that was accomplished
during President Huntley’s tenure,’’ she
says. ‘‘That has been such an important
event for the University.’’

Though all the presidents for whom she
worked had rather different styles, Miss
Ravenhorst points to the strong similarities of
the men.

‘“They were all fine, warm human beings
with truly wonderful families,’’ she says.
‘*And all of them had a delicious sense of
humor—they would have to have to be
working with me.”’

Huntley has often referred to Miss
Ravenhorst’s habit of clipping cartoons from
The New Yorker and slipping them onto his

 

 

 

18

 

Concert Guild presented The Richmond
Sinfonia in concert in January. The concert
was the third in the W&L Concert Guild’s
1982-83 season.

 

 

Campus speakers

—Yevgeniy V. Afanasyev, second
secretary of the Soviet Embassy in
Washington, spoke on Soviet foreign policy
in January under sponsorship of the
International Club.

—Dr. Roger C. Molander, executive
director of Ground Zero, a nuclear war
education project, presented a lecture in
February as part of “‘Contact ’83.”’

—The Glasgow Endowment Committe at
Washington and Lee sponsored a reading by
poet Robert Pack in February. Pack is a 1951
graduate of Dartmouth College with a
master’s degree from Columbia University.
He is currently Abernethy Professor of

 

Dr. Roger C. Molander

American Literature at Middlebury College,
where he has taught for 16 years.

—The department of romance languages
at Washington and Lee and the Alliance
Francaise of Lexington presented prominent
French actor Eric Chartier in a series of
dramatic readings in French.

—Stock market analyst Paul Wenske
examined the current condition of Wall
Street in a lecture entitled ‘‘Flying High on
Wall Street’’ in February as part of Contact
°83, a Speaker symposium sponsored by the
student body and the interfraternity council at
WL.

—Richard De Gennaro, director of
libraries at the University of Pennsylvania,
discussed new trends in library science in a
lecture in February. De Gennaro’s lecture
was entitled ‘‘Perspectives on Three Decades
of Library Automation and Networking.”’

—John W. Elrod, professor of
philosophy at Iowa State University in
Ames, Iowa, presented a lecture entitled
‘*Einstein and God’’ in February under
sponsorship of the Philip Fullerton Howerton

 

 

desk along with the mail.

No doubt her most memorable line came
15 years ago on the day that Huntley moved
from the law school to the president’s office.
The bells in the Lee Chapel tower were
chiming as they traditionally did on special
days. When Huntley wondered aloud about
the chimes, Miss Ravenhorst replied: **Ask
not for whom the bell tolls... .”’

A native of lowa who moved to
Lexington when she was in grade school,
Miss Ravenhorst is a first-generation
American. Her parents were from The
Netherlands.

‘‘T am quite proud of my Dutch
ancestry,’’ she says.

She attended Harrisonburg State Teachers
College (now James Madison University) for
two years and aspired to be a librarian.

‘*But I came to Washington and Lee
during the war and have loved every minute
of my work here,’’ she says. ‘*I have
watched how the University has changed
over the years. Everything that has been
done here in the long time I’ve been at the
University has added to the luster of this very
special school.

‘*The community that is Washington and
Lee is a really remarkable place. The people
are so wonderful.

She was secretary to President Gaines for
seven years, to Dr. Fred Cole for his entire
eight-year term, to Acting President William

Webb Pusey for five months, and to Huntley
for his entire 15-year term.

‘*Over the past few weeks as I was
sorting out all the files, I had a chance to
review a lot of the events of the past 30
years, especially all of the crises,’’ Miss
Ravenhorst says.

In fact, she notes that the respective
tenures of Gaines, Cole, and Huntley were
all characterized by a particular crisis.

‘*The first crisis that happened right after
I came was the athletic situation,’’ she notes,
referring to the University’s decision to stop
awarding athletic scholarships. *‘That
initiated a real flurry of activity and
correspondence for Dr. Gaines. I remember
that most of it occurred during the summer
and that Dr. Gaines remarked about how
tired he was at the end of that summer. He
would tell people: ‘I’ve played football all
summer.’

‘‘Dr. Cole happened to be in office when
integration was the major issue. He had to
deal with that very difficult situation and, of
course, handled it very well, but not without
a lot of real agonizing over it.

‘‘Mr. Huntley’s crisis was the May
protests in 1970 over the Vietnam War. It
was a very turbulent time . . . such an ugly,
ugly situation. I don’t know how Mr.
Huntley paid for it inwardly, but he handled
the May protests extraordinarily well. It was
one of the most angry times that I’ve had,

watching all those things happen.”’

Miss Ravenhorst remembers that her
arrival at W&L coincided with two events
that had great impact on Lexington and the
entire state: one was the founding of the
George C. Marshall Foundation while the
other was the creation of the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges, a
fund-raising organization for private colleges
in the state.

‘‘Dr. Gaines played a strong role in the
founding of the Marshall Foundation and
also in the creation of the VFIC,’’ notes Miss
Ravenhorst. ‘‘And each of the presidents for
whom I have worked has been very deeply
involved in the work of those two
institutions, both of which have meant a
great deal to this area and to the state.”’

‘*What strikes me about the presidents
for whom I have worked is that each of them
has been the right man for the job at the time
he was in office. Each of the-men have been
brilliant scholars and eminently sensible
people. I can’t say enough good things about
them.

‘‘My hope is that some scholar will, in
the very near future, begin the task of adding
some new chapters to the book General
Lee’s College. The presidents for whom I
have worked belong in the book. They have
all done so much to make Washington and
Lee what it is.”’

So, of course, has Albertina Ravenhorst.

 

 

19

 

Mg Gazette

Fund for special programs in the department
of religion at W&L. Elrod’s talk was a
comparison of Einstein’s scientific and
religious ideas. It was developed in
collaboration with a physicist at lowa State.

 

 

Lexington’s colleges sign in

The Virginia Highway Department has
revised its initial manner (pun intended) of
identifying Lexington’s two colleges by its
signs on the interstate highway approaches to
the city.

Signs on I-81 that have read *‘VMI’’ and
““W&L Univ’’ for the past 12 years have
been replaced with necessarily larger signs
that now read *‘Virginia Military Institute’’
and ‘‘Washington and Lee University,”’
along with the appropriate directions for
making the proper turn-off.

Replacement of similar signs at the
interchange of I-64 and U.S. 11 is scheduled
for this summer, according to Delegate S.
Vance Wilkins Jr. of Amherst, who now
represents Lexington and most of Rockbridge
County in the Virginia General Assembly.

Wilkins played a key role in resolving the
matter that had fretted officials and alumni of
the two Lexington schools for more than a
decade. Of Virginia’s dozens of colleges and
universities identified along the interstate
system, only VMI and W&L were subjected
to abbreviation by their initials. Others, such
as “‘J. Sargent Reynolds Community
College,’’ were spelled out in full.
Rockbridge County’s third college, Southern
Seminary Junior College, has been spelled
out on its I-81 signs from the beginning.

According to a W&L spokesman, neither
VMI nor W&L officials were ever asked how
they wanted their signs to read.

“When the signs went up,’’ the
spokesman recalled, ‘I think reactions were
mixed. On one hand, we were flattered to be
so well-known that initials seemed to suffice,
but on the other hand, we felt like we’d somehow
been short-changed. Our alumni would
occasionally complain about what they
perceived as a bureaucratic slight of two of
the Old Dominion’s proudest institutions.
Every so often somebody would allow that
something should be done, but we always
assumed someone else would do it.’’

Reacting to tourists’ (out-of-state folks,
surely) questions about what VMI and W&L
stood for on the highway signs, Lexington
Visitor Center Director Martha Doss decided
last September to coordinate a concerted
effort among the two schools and the city to
get the signs amended.

20

 

Admiring one of the newly erected highway signs are, from left, VMI Superintendent General SamS. Walker,

 

88

Delegate S. Vance Wilkins of Amherst, and Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson.

Letters from Ms. Doss, Mayor Charles F.
Phillips Jr., WMI Superintendent General
Sam S. Walker, and W&L President Robert
E. R. Huntley were directed to the Highway
Department, requesting complete names on
the VMI and W&L signs. A prompt and
thoughtful response followed from the
District Traffic Engineer in Staunton. His
letter spelled out in detail how larger, more
expensive signs would be involved, how
there was no provision in the existing
department budget to cover such a charge,
and how the colleges should be prepared to
spend their own money if they wanted the
change made anytime soon. The District
Engineer suggested several ways to reduce
the costs and promised to include the change
in the department’s next sign budget.

Neither VMI nor W&L was inclined to
finance its own expanded spelling, the W&L
spokesman said. Both made grateful
acknowledgments to the Highway
Department for its helpful attitude and
promise of future remedy.

A few weeks later, at a gathering of top
officials of Virginia’s private colleges, the
W&L officer present chided President James
Davis good-naturedly on the enviable full
treatment his Shenandoah College and
Conservatory of Music gets on its I-81 sign
near Winchester. Davis, who once
represented Rockbridge County in the
General Assembly, told the W&L man where
he could go . . . for help, that is.

The W&L official sent letters to State
Senator Frank W. Nolen, Delegate Wilkins,
and Delegate Lacey E. Putney, a W&L

alumnus, asking for any individual or
collective assistance they might suggest.
Senator Nolen wrote promptly to promise
support and offer helpful suggestions on
reducing the costs to the Highway
Department. Delegate Putney called the
W&L official directly to say he would have
been able to help, but that Vance Wilkins
had already done the job.

Late in December, VMI, W&L, and the
Lexington Visitor Center shared the good
news from Delegate Wilkins that the college
signs on I-81 would be changed in January
and that the I-64 signs would be changed in
July.

The W&L spokesman summed it up:
‘*For years we’ve been sitting around
saying “Let George do it!’ Well, it turns out
that George is really Vance Wilkins. All of
us at W&L and VMI are very grateful for his

helpful influence in Richmond.”’

A footnote on interstate college signs:
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University really prefers ** Virginia Tech’’ on
its I-81 signs. The Highway Department is,
no doubt, glad of it.

 

 

Wilson makes Parsons
his executive assistant

Frank A. Parsons, who has served as
assistant to the past two Washington and Lee
University presidents, has been named
executive assistant to new W&L President
John D. Wilson.

Announcement of Parsons’ appointment

 

was made by Wilson in January.

In addition to his duties as Wilson’s
executive assistant, Parsons will continue to
serve as University editor.

A 1954 graduate of W&L, Parsons had

‘been the assistant to W&L presidents Fred C.

Cole and Robert E. R. Huntley with service
spanning 22 years.

In his role as executive assistant to
Wilson, Parsons will perform many of the
same duties he performed under Huntley,
including the coordination of physical
planning and institutional research and self-
study.

As University editor, he has supervisory
responsibilities in the areas of publicity and
publications and also for the University’s
print shop.

A native of Clifton Forge, Parsons joined
the W&L administration in 1954 as director
of publicity and has served in a variety of
publications and planning capacities.

 

 

International Day at W&L

A performance of international folk
dances by a James Madison University dance
troupe and a slide-lecture about Paris were
the highlights of International Day ’83 at
Washington and Lee in February.

The International Day events were
sponsored by Washington and Lee’s
International Club.

The Folk Ensemble of the James Madison
University Dance Theatre presented a
program of folk dances from Poland,
Armenia, Mexico, Israel, Germany,
England, and the United States.

Mrs. A. G. Fralin Jr. of Lexington
presented a slide-lecture entitled ‘“The Heart
of Paris—Past and Present’’ in Northen
Auditorium of the University Library. Mrs.
Fralin is a native of Paris.

 

 

W&L receives portrait
of Carter by Vanderlyn

The University received a valuable
addition to its collection of 18th and 19th
century American art when Mrs. Theodore
A. Seder of Lexington presented the
University with a portrait of Bernard Moore
Carter painted around 1810 by noted artist
John Vanderlyn.

Mrs. Seder made the gift in memory of
her mother, Mary McCorkle Wilson Morgan,
who was born and raised in Lexington and
Collierstown, and in honor of her brother,

William Wilson Morgan, a member of the
Washington and Lee Class of 1927 and a
distinguished astronomer and professor of
physics with the Yerkes Observatory of the
University of Chicago.

Mr. and Mrs. Seder moved to Lexington
in December from San Antonio, Tex.

The Carter portrait is an important
addition to the Washington and Lee
collection not only because it is the
University’s first work by Vanderlyn but also
because it provides an interesting link with
the Custis-Washington-Lee Collection,
which represents six generations of the
Washington, Custis, and Lee families.

Bernard Moore Carter’s sister was the
wife of “Light Horse Harry’’ Lee and the
mother of Robert E. Lee. Carter was himself
the husband of ‘‘Light Horse Harry’’ Lee’s
daughter, Lucy.

‘“This painting has been a treasure and
joy to me for nearly 25 years,’’ Mrs. Seder
said. *‘And now I wish to share it with
people who are most likely to enjoy it and
learn from it as a fine example of early
American portraiture.”’

Vanderlyn was considered the best
portraitist of his day.

‘*This portrait makes an important
educational addition to our art history
program here at Washington and Lee,’’ said
Pamela H. Simpson, associate professor of
art history and assistant dean of the college at
W&L. **Aside from the obvious importance
of the connection between the subject of the
painting and the Lee family, a painting by

 

John Vanderlyn, an extremely important
American artist, makes a splendid addition to
our collection.’”’

According to Mrs. Seder, who was
formerly a research and art reference
librarian, very few portraits by Vanderlyn
have come on the art market since most of
the artist’s best work was commissioned by
various government bodies, including the
U.S. Congress and the state and city of New
York.

Bernard Moore Carter, born in 1780, was
the son of Charles Carter of Shirley
Plantation and the great grandson of ‘‘King’’
Carter and Governor Spottswood.

 

 

University receives
Sears, Roebuck grant

Washington and Lee has received an
unrestricted grant of $900 from the Sears,
Roebuck Foundation.

E. O. Huffman Jr., manager of the Sears,
Roebuck and Company store in Lexington,
presented the Sears grant to Washington and
Lee President John D. Wilson in January.

Washington and Lee was one of 25
privately supported colleges and universities
in Virginia to receive the unrestricted grants
totaling more than $22,000 from the Sears,
Roebuck Foundation.

The Virginia colleges and universities are
among 946 private accredited two- and four-
year institutions across the country which are
sharing in $1,565,000 in Sears Foundation

 

On behalf of the University, W&L President John D. Wilson accepts the 19th-century portrait by John

Vanderlyn from Mr. and Mrs. Theodore A. Seder of Lexington.

 

 

21

He Gazette

funds for the 1982-83 academic year. Funds
may be used as the colleges and universities
deem necessary.

In addition to its unrestricted grant
program, the Sears, Roebuck Foundation
each year conducts a variety of other
programs in elementary, secondary, and
higher education. Altogether, the Foundation
had expenditures of approximately
$2,500,000 in 1982 for its educational
activities.

 

 

SCLA conference at VMI, W&L

The ninth annual conference of the
Southern Comparative Literature Association
was held on the campuses of Virginia
Military Institute and Washington and Lee
University in February.

The Department of Modern Languages at
VMI and the Department of Romance
Languages at W&L were hosts for the event.

A highlight of the conference was the
1983 SCLA Lecture by Wallace Fowlie,
professor emeritus of French at Duke
University. The lecture was entitled ‘*Faith
and Narrative in Dante.’’

 

 

New volume of poetry
by Stuart is published

A new collection of the poetry of Dabney
Stuart, professor of English at W&L, has
been published by the Louisiana State
University Press.

Common Ground is Stuart’s seventh
published volume, including one volume of
poems for children. The poems in Common
Ground center on a family—the bonds that
unite it and the forces that break it apart.

Though taking as their subject such
topics as friendship, air travel, men’s room
graffiti, conservation, the American West,
and the circus, the poems return again and
again to the family.

Stuart, who is on sabbatical leave from
Washington and Lee during the current
academic year, has had his work published in
many anthologies and journals.

His previous volumes are Rockbridge
Poems (1981), Round and Round (1977),
The Other Hand (1974), Friends of Yours,
Friends of Mine (the poetry for children,
1974), A Particular Place (1969) and The
Diving Bell (1966).

In addition, he is the author of a
scholarly study of Vladimir Nabokov’s
fiction. That volume, Nabokov: The
Dimensions of Parody, was also published

22

 

Dabney Stuart

by LSU Press.

In 1982 Stuart received a National
Endowment for the Arts Literary Fellowship.
He was a 1979 winner of the first Governor’s
Awards for the Arts and has won numerous
other awards and honors for his poetry,
including the Dylan Thomas Award from the
Poetry Society of America.

He served as poetry editor of
Shenandoah, the W&L literary review, from
1966 to 1976, and has been judge for various
literary awards, most notably the Hopwood
Award at the University of Michigan.

A native of Richmond, Stuart holds his
bachelor’s degree in English from Davidson
College and his master’s degree in English
from Harvard. He has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1965.

Stuart presented a reading from his works
in Northen Auditorium in February as part of
the Glasgow Endowment Committee’s series
of poetry readings.

 

 

Superdance raises $32,533
for Muscular Dystrophy

Once the last dance was danced and the
last pie was thrown around 2 o’clock on
Sunday morning, Jan. 30, Washington and
Lee University’s fifth annual Superdance had
received pledges and other contributions
totaling $32,533 for the Muscular Dystrophy
Association.

A total of 152 dancers took part in the
30-hour dance marathon, which began at 8

p.m. on Friday and continued until the final
tally was announced at 2 a.m. Sunday.

Dancers raised money for the event by
securing pledges from individuals and
businesses. This year, the 152 dancers
received $18,600 in pledges. The remainder
of the Superdance total came in the form of
admissions, concessions, and a variety of
auxiliary events.

Once again this year the most popular—
and most lucrative—of those auxiliary events
were the pie-throwing contests in which
members of the audience bid for the right to
toss a pie in the face of aW&L
administrator, faculty member, or student.

This year’s top pie total was $230. That
was the amount of money bid on the pie that
went splashing into the face of W&L junior
Markham Pyle, finance chairman for the
Superdance. Other pie-throwing totals
included $225 for Edward C. Atwood, dean
of the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics, and $205 for Major John Mears,
assistant professor of military science at
W&L.

Townsend Oast, a W&L senior, was the
chairman for ‘“‘Superdance ’83.”’

 

 

Harvard law professor is
Lewis scholar-in-residence

Harvard law professor Harold J. Berman
is the scholar-in-residence in the Frances
Lewis Law Center at the W&L School of
Law for the spring semester.

Berman will be conducting research on
the impact of the great revolutions in the
West on the ideas of law. In addition, he is
teaching a seminar on law reform.

Berman is the James Barr Ames
Professor of Law at Harvard where he has
been teaching since 1948. His courses there
include The Law of International Trade, The
Western Legal Tradition, and Comparison of
Soviet and American Law.

He is the author of 19 books and more
than 200 articles and has written extensively
on comparative law, legal history, and legal
philosophy as well as on legal problems in
international trade. His books include Justice
in the U.S.S.R. (2nd edition, 1963), Soviet
Criminal Law and Procedure (2nd edition,
1972), and The Interaction of Law and
Religion (1974).

His book Law and Revolution: The
Formation of the Western Legal Tradition is
scheduled for publication in 1983.

Berman has been active in promoting the
teaching of law in the liberal arts curriculum.
His book, The Nature and Function of Law:

 

 

An Introduction for Students of the Arts and
Sciences (1948; fourth edition, 1972, with
William R. Greiner), is widely used in
college courses. He is also editor and co-
author of Talks on American Law (2nd
edition, 1971).

Berman was a lecturer on American law
at Moscow State University in the spring of
1982. In 1979-80, he was a fellow of the
National Humanities Center at the Research
Triangle Park in North Carolina.

A native of Hartford, Conn., Berman
received the B.A. degree from Dartmouth
College in 1938. He studied at the London
School of Economics and Political Science in
1938-39 and at the Yale Graduate School and
Yale Law School. He received both the
M.A. (1942) and the LL.B. (1947) from
Yale University. He taught law at Stanford in
1947-48. He served in the U.S. Army from
1942 to 1945 and is the recipient of the
Bronze Star Medal.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was
established in the W&L School of Law in
1978 to stimulate law reform and to focus on
developing knowledge ‘‘at the frontiers of
the law.’’ In addition to the scholar-in-
residence program, the center supports the
research of W&L law faculty members and
organizes colloquia on current legal subjects.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Emory Kimbrough Jr., professor of
sociology, is the author of an article in the
November 1982 issue of the Virginia Social
Science Journal. Kimbrough’s article is
entitled ‘‘Medieval and Modern New Town
Development: A Comparative View’’ and
examines the so-called ‘‘new town’’ schemes
that developed in medieval England and in
contemporary Britain.

The concept of ‘‘new town’’ applies to
communities that are developed initially
under a comprehensive plan and are designed
to be self-contained, autonomous units with
balanced communities encompassing a wide
spectrum of persons. According to
Kimbrough, only a small number of
American communities would qualify to be
considered “‘new towns’’ under strict
adherence to the definition.

—HMiuinor L. Rogers, associate professor
of religion, has contributed a chapter to a
recently-published book entitled Essays in
the Pure Land Buddhist Thought.

The book was published in Japan in
honor of Dr. Mitsuyuki Ishida, an eminent
scholar in Japanese Buddhist studies, on the
occasion of his 70th birthday.

 

Minor L. Rogers

The majority of the essays are written in
Japanese by Japanese scholars and treat
topics in the development of Pure Land
thought from ancient India to China to
modern Japan. Rogers’ essay, ‘‘A View of
Rennyo’s Early and Middle Years,’’ is one
of three included in the book by foreign
contributors.

During a sabbatical leave in 1980-81,
Rogers worked with Dr. Ishida on a project
at Ryukoku University’s translation center in
Kyoto, Japan.

Another article by Rogers, ‘“The Shin
Faith of Rennyo,’’ was published in the
spring 1982 issue of The Eastern Buddhist.
Rogers is currently preparing a major study
of Rennyo, who laid foundations in medieval
Japan for the emergence of the Shin Pure
Land sect as the most influential religious
movement in Japanese history.

—Washington and Lee law professor
Thomas L. Shaffer presented two major
lectures in January.

On January 6, Shaffer was the featured
speaker for the First Friday Club, an
organization of Roman Catholic business and
professional people in Cleveland, Ohio. His
speech was entitled *‘The Ethics of
Servanthood.’’

On January 8, Shaffer was one of several
speakers who addressed the Teaching
Methods Section of the Association of
American Law Schools at the association’s
annual meeting in Cincinnati. Shaffer spoke
on the subject of teaching moral values in
law school.

 

 

Shaffer, who joined the faculty of the
Washington and Lee School of Law in
1979, is the author of On Being A Christian
and A Lawyer and has written and lectured
extensively on the topic of legal ethics.

—A paper by Hampden H. Smith III,
associate professor of journalism, has been
published in a volume of papers from the
1980 Edward R. Murrow Symposium held at
Washington State University.

Smith’s paper is entitled ‘‘A Comparison
of Agenda Setting in the United States by the
Mass Media and Political Parties’’ and is the
first of two background papers published as
part of the symposium, ‘*‘Mass Media and the
Political Process: Reshaping American
Democracy?’’

Smith, a former assistant city editor for
the Richmond News Leader, has been a
member of the Washington and Lee faculty
since 1974. He has done considerable
research on the relationship between the
news media and public policy.

—Washington and Lee physics professor
Ronald L. Reese and W&L junior Jack L.
O’Brien of Boca Raton, Fla., are the authors
of an article published in the February 1983
issue of Griffith Observer. Entitled
‘Renaissance Cosmologies in ‘Paradise
Lost,’ ”’ the article examines the
cosmological views that are part of John
Milton’s epic poem. The article was written
as part of the Robert E. Lee Undergraduate
Research Program at W&L.

—Steven E. Olson, assistant professor of
English, is a major contributor to a special
issue Of The Southern Quarterly devoted to
Conrad Aiken’s prose.

Olson’s article, much of it based on
research in previously unpublished material
at the Huntington Library, examines the
autobiographical elements of Aiken’s second
novel, Great Circle, which Olson describes
as Aiken’s “‘journey into the traumatic
events of his childhood.”’

Olson moderated a special session on
Aiken at the 1980 convention of the Modern
Language Association and has recently
published an article on Aiken’s early poem,
**The Clerk’s Journal,’’ in Essays in Arts
and Sciences.

The Southern Quarterly, a journal of the
arts in the South, is published at the
University of Southern Mississippi.

—Two members of the Washington and
Lee faculty made presentations at the 22nd
annual meeting of the Southeast Conference
of the Association for Asian Studies held at
Appalachian State University in Boone,
N.C., in January.

Roger B. Jeans, associate professor of

23

ee
vo have characte

John Will Creasy

long celebration was a

| School, participated

of

 

 

 

‘*That has been one of the major
elements in the renovation,’’ Gordon
explained. ‘‘Before now, the music division
was scattered about the campus.’’

The renovated building contains fully-
equipped practice rooms and a large rehearsal
hall with recording and videotape facilities.

‘*These facilities have gotten
considerable use not only from the students
and the various musical groups on our
campus, but also from the Lexington
community,’ noted Gordon. *‘The
community chorus, the community orchestra,
and the community youth orchestra all use
these facilities for rehearsals.

‘*We are very pleased with the
relationship that we have had with various
organizations in the Lexington community
and are delighted, for instance, to have our
Glee Club performing with the Lexington
High School Choir once again this year.’’

In addition to the rehearsal and practice
facilities, the duPont Hall renovation
involved a major facelift for the duPont
Gallery as well as improvements to duPont
Auditorium.

‘“We were especially pleased to be able
to extend the capabilities of the auditorium
by extending the stage area and thereby
making it suitable for recitals such as those
we presented during this celebration,”’ said
Gordon. ‘‘It was already an excellent facility
for lectures. Now it has the other dimension
we wanted.’’

 

 

Honors, awards

—Gabriel Bryan Balazs of Lexington and
Christopher H. Williams of Newark, Del.,
were named co-winners of the annual Phi
Beta Kappa Sophomore Award.

The award recognizes superlative
scholastic achievement among
undergraduates in their first two years at
W&L. It is made annually by the Gamma of
Virginia Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa to the
sophomore who has attained the highest
cumulative scholastic average through the
end of the fall term of his second year at
WL.

Both Balazs and Williams have attained
perfect 4.0 cumulative grade-point averages
(on a 4.0 scale).

—Patrick T. McGuire, a senior from
Roanoke, is the 1983 winner of The Captain
Jay W. Stull Memorial Award at the
University.

The Stull Memorial Award is made in
recognition of exemplary achievement and
outstanding promise in military service.

Awarded on the recommendation of the
United States Marine Corps, the Stull
Memorial Award goes to that Washington
and Lee student who attains the highest
standing in the Senior Platoon Leaders Class
during summer corps training at Quantico,
Va.

The award honors the memory of U.S.
Marine Captain Jay W. Stull, a 1960
graduate of Washington and Lee who died in
action in Vietnam in 1968.

—John Vlahoplus, a senior from
Columbia, S.C., is the 1983 winner of the
annual Edward L. Pinney Prize at the.
University.

The prize was awarded to Vlahoplus by a
vote of the University Council, an
organization composed of students, faculty,
and administration at Washington and Lee.

Awarded for the first time in 1982, the
Pinney Prize was established by the
Washington and Lee faculty in memory of
the late Edward Lee Pinney, professor of
politics at W&L who died in 1980. The
Pinney Prize recognizes extraordinary
commitment both to personal scholarship and
to the nurturing of intellectual life at
Washington and Lee.

—Scott Prysi, a junior from Alexandria,
Va., is one of three students from Virginia
colleges to be awarded a grant from the
English-Speaking Union for summer study in
Great Britain.

The award, administered by the
Richmond branch of the English-Speaking
Union, provides an opportunity for students
from Virginia to take courses in an English
or Scottish university and to travel in Great
Britain in order that they may have a more
intimate knowledge and understanding of the
British people.

Prysi will use the grant to study
Shakespearean drama and Elizabethan history
at Stratford-on-Avon for six weeks this
summer.

The grant is awarded on the basis of
literary and scholastic ability and evidence of
potential leadership along with other qualities
as determined in application procedures and
through a series of interviews.

 

 

Pinney Prize winner John Vlahoplus with W&L President John D. Wilson

The Shadow knows,
and so does Chuck

‘*Who knows what evil lurks in the
hearts of men?”’

Chuck Diffenderffer knows. Well, maybe
Diffenderffer doesn’t know about the evil in
men’s hearts. But he does know all about the
‘*Shadow,’’ (a.k.a., Lamont Cranston, who
made that question famous), not to mention
‘‘The Green Hornet,’’ ““The Great
Gildersleeve,’’ ‘‘Fibber McGee and Molly,’’
and ‘‘The Bickersons,’’ to name just a few.

In case you haven’t guessed,

 

25

de Gazette

Diffenderffer is an aficionado of oldtime
radio. Collecting recordings of old radio
programs may not seem such an unusual
hobby until you consider that Diffenderffer,
a Washington and Lee University freshman
from Baldwin, Md., was not even born when
“The Shadow”’ solved his last mystery.

But Diffenderffer has been making up for
lost time. During the past two years, he has
collected 100 hours of oldtime radio
programs and done a good bit of research
into his new hobby.

And each Sunday night from 9 p.m. to
9:30 p.m., he shares his interest and his
expertise over WLUR-FM (91.5),
Washington and Lee’s campus radio station.

-“*We had obtained a good collection of
old radio shows for the station. But until
Chuck came, no one had the interest or the
knowledge to play them on the air,”’
explained Robert J. de Maria, assistant
professor of journalism and general manager
of WLUR.

Diffenderffer was happy to oblige and
has made good use of the station’s
collection.

‘‘T had always heard my grandfather talk
about old radio programs and how the radio
forced you to use your imagination,”’
Diffenderffer said. ‘‘One night I happened to
pick up ‘CBS Mystery Theatre’ on the car
radio. I became engrossed in the story and
discovered that my grandfather was right.’’

Diffenderffer’s personal collection
includes many old stand-bys—episodes of
“The Shadow’’ and ‘‘The Green Hornet”’
and *‘Gunsmoke’”’ along with such single
programs as the classic ‘‘War of the
Worlds.’’ One of his most prized possessions
is a tape of the final rehearsal of a ‘‘Mercury
Theatre’’ episode.

For his weekly WLUR program,

Diffenderffer does considerable background
research which he uses to introduce the
episode.

‘‘T have done quite a lot of reading into
the history of radio drama. And I’ve also
learned a great deal simply by talking with
my grandparents about it,’’ says
Diffenderffer, who plans to major in political
science at W&L.

‘“Ever since I began to be interested in
oldtime radio, I have found television very,
very boring—even though I still watch TV.

The difference is that listening to radio is
more like studying: you can’t let your
attention wander at all. You really have to
listen. I consider listening to a radio program
as taking my imagination for a walk.”’

Diffenderffer confesses that his fellow
students have a difficult time understanding
his interest in the old radio shows.

‘*T would say that the collection of
records I have in my dorm room is rather
different from the collection you would find
in most college dorm rooms,’’ he added.

 

 

Annual alumni basketball game

 

The navy blue Generals handed their Columbia Blue counterparts a 90-86 loss in the third annual
Washington and Lee Basketball Alumni Game held on February 5 in the Warner Center. Participants were:
standing (left-to-right) Dave Leunig *79, Tracey Hodge *79, Randy Taylor *75, Bob Flint 77, Norm
Kristoff °76, Don Berlin °77, Jeff Baum °76, announcer Burr Datz ’75, Earl Edwards °69, Ken Jaffe °82,
Rob Smitherman ‘81; (left-to-right) R. J. Scaggs °81, Paul Maloney *76, Greg Croghan °75, John
Podgajny °76, Mike Wenke °79, George Spears *82, and Tom Jeffries “80. Mac Rein °81 served as

manager for the team.

 

 

Chapter News

NEW ORLEANS.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. The chapter held a holiday party on
Dec. 30 in honor of the students from the area who are currently
attending Washington and Lee and also in honor of several highly

qualified prospective students. Archer Frierson, ’73, chapter
president, made the arrangements, assisted by T. Haller Jackson III,
*73. The reception was held at the KCOZ FM Radio Station.

Van Pate, associate director of admissions,

was present at a cocktail reception for prospective W&L students on
Nov. 19. The host and hostess were Mr. and Mrs. Frederick L.
Bates, ’76. The turnout of interested local high school juniors and
seniors was the largest in memory of those present. A chapter
business meeting preceded the reception; the following officers
were elected: Rick Bates, ’76, president; John Carrere, ’69, vice
president; and Julian Good, ’78, secretary-treasurer.

SAN DIEGO. Area alumni began the new year with a reception
and dinner meeting on Jan. 8 at the San Diego Yacht Club. A large
number of alumni with spouses and dates together with the parents
of current students were present to welcome Bill McHenry, °54,
W&L athletic director, and Gary Fallon, head football coach. Both
men were representing Washington and Lee at the annual NCAA
convention in San Diego. Jack Norberg, ’80, introduced McHenry

and Fallon after the dinner, and each added entertaining remarks to

year.

the evening. John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, chapter president, closed
the meeting with announcements of chapter plans for the rest of the

 

 

 

310 And Counting

W&L’s Verne Canfield Reaches A Major Coaching Milestone

Surely there must have been some
moments—fleeting though they might have
been—when Verne Canfield wondered
whether he would ever win a game as
Washington and Lee’s head basketball
coach. |

It was the winter of 1964-65. Fresh from
a sparkling high school coaching career and
brimming with optimism, Canfield was
taking over a Washington and Lee program
that was mired in seven years worth of losing
records. Canfield promised to change all
that. He vowed he would produce a
conference champion in three years.

‘“What did I know? I’d read somewhere
in a coaching book that a coach is supposed
to make a promise like that,’’ Canfield says,
smiling at the memory.

After 12 games of that first season, the
Generals were still losing. In fact, the record
was perfect—no wins, 12 losses.

‘‘T can’t remember the number exactly,
but 12 sounds about right,’’ Canfield says.
‘‘T only remember that the first win was a
long, long time coming.’’

But come it did. W&L 81, North
Carolina Wesleyan 43. A win. The win.
Canfield’s first at W&L. And the first of
many, many more.

Early in the 1982-83 season Canfield
reached a major coaching milestone. On
January 8 the Generals trounced Lebanon
Valley 115-73 giving Canfield his 300th
victory in 19 seasons at W&L.

By season’s end, Canfield’s W&L record
stood at 310-178 for a winning percentage of
.639—a far cry from those early days when
Canfield was struggling for that first victory.

And yet, Canfield argues convincingly
that those dismal days—the 0-12 start, the 2-
17 record in his first season—were as
necessary as they were humbling.

‘*'That first year was probably the most
beneficial coaching experience I’ve ever
had,’’ Canfield says, leaning back toward an
office wall covered with the plaques and
trophies that symbolize his team’s success.

‘‘T had come from an all-winning
situation in high school and sort of thought I
knew something about the game. A 2-17
season is not only humbling but, if you allow
it, it can be a tremendous learning
experience.

‘‘T took apart everything I did as a coach

28

 

Canfield maps strategy for one of the Generals’ victories.

 

 

and adjusted it to a college situation. More
than that, I adjusted it to the situation I found
at Washington and Lee which, let’s face it, is
unique because the players have got to study
and they’re playing because they want to
play, not because they need to keep a
scholarship. ”’

Whatever adjustments Canfield made in
the wake of that first season, they clearly
paid off. )

He even kept his promise: his third
edition of the Generals won the Virginia
College Athletic Association championship.
In his 19 years at W&L, Canfield’s teams
have posted winning records 16 times,
including this year’s 17-10 mark. His teams
have won nine conference championships
and have advanced to the NCAA Division III
tournament four times. The list of
achievements is long. One need look no
further than that trophy-laden wall of
Canfield’s office for proof.

‘*But you know what means more to me
than all the plaques on this wall?’’ says
Canfield, producing a thick manila folder
from his desk. ‘‘These letters mean more.
These are from former players who have
written over the years just to say thanks.
That’s what means something. That’s what
it’s all about.”’

Proud as he is of those 300 victories,
Canfield is every bit as proud of noting that
11 of his former players are coaching now.
One of those, Mike Neer, took the
University of Rochester into the finals of an
NCAA Division III regional tournament this
year.

‘‘It means something when one of those
young coaches calls on the telephone and
asked, ‘How do you think I ought to handle
this, coach?’ And there’s no more emotional
feeling than looking down at the bench of a
team we’re playing and seeing one of your
former players coaching against you,”’
Canfield says.

That magic milestone—300 victories—
would be impressive under any
circumstances. What makes Canfield’s
success all the more impressive is that it has
been accomplished at a Division III
institution that, perhaps more than most,
lives up to the Division III philosophy in its
admissions policies. That is to say, a 6-11
center with a soft shooting touch gets the

same treatment, the same consideration, in
the admissions process as a 5-11 debater with
a Silver tongue or a 6-0 baritone with perfect
pitch.

‘‘T have the greatest admiration for any
athlete at Washington and Lee,’’ Canfield
says. ‘‘They are special people. So are the
people on the debate team or in the Glee
Club. I think a guy who participates in some
extracurricular activity, who gives of himself
in some way, will have stronger ties to
Washington and Lee when he leaves.”’

Canfield readily admits that his
philosophies and methods are a bit different
than many coaches. He knows, too, that
those methods have not always been
enthusiastically embraced in all quarters of
the University community.

‘*But if you talk to anybody who has
played basketball here, they believe in the
program,’’ Canfield says. ‘*We use the
words ‘we, us, and our’ and very seldom do
we use ‘I, me, and mine.’ We’re kind of
fanatical about team play.

‘*The heart of my philosophy is that you
must learn something from a loss or it will
consume you—whether it’s the loss of a
game or some other loss.

‘*Perhaps the players on my earliest
W&L teams would be surprised to hear me
say this, but the only time basketball is

W&L senior forward Brian Hanson drives toward the basket.

 

important is when you are on the basketball
court. The rest of the time I’m concerned
with the players as individuals. They know I
care for them. If the players see that, then
they’re willing to do what you ask of them
and the winning takes care of itself.

‘*T like to think we keep our priorities
right. Last term, for instance, nine players
made the dean’s list.’’

Canfield takes the greatest pleasure in
pointing to individual instances of players
who entered the program as freshmen and
left, four years later, having realized every
ounce of potential that they have as
basketball players.

‘*People have sometimes told me that
Washington and Lee gets the most out of its
players. I consider that the ultimate
compliment,’’ says Canfield. “*I have often
said that we don’t get great players. I mean
that. But I mean it lovingly. What we do get
are great people. And I'll take that any time.
You can win with great people, whether
you’re running a business or a basketball
team.

‘*That’s why I’ve stayed here 19 years.
That’s why I plan to be here another 20
years. I believe in Washington and Lee. I
believe in the people who come to school
here. And I especially believe in those kids
in the short pants who play basketball here.’’

29

Winter Sports Roundup

 

 

Generals finish 17-10,
Hanson All-ODAC

Led by All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference forward Brian Hanson,
Washington and Lee completed a 17-10
season by finishing in a tie for third place in
the ODAC regular season standings.

After opening the ODAC tournament
with a 77-59 win over Maryville, W&L fell
to ODAC champion Roanoke 65-60 in the
semifinal round. The loss was the Generals’
third this year to Roanoke, which was ranked
No. 2 in the nation among Division III
schools at the end of the regular season.

Hanson averaged 16 points and 8.3
rebounds per game for the Generals while
junior forward John Lee Graves had a
scoring average of 15.2.

Hanson finished his W&L career with
1,338 points to place eighth among the all-
time scoring leaders. He played in all 110
games over the past four seasons, starting the
last 101.

 

 

Five swimmers earn
berths in nationals

Washington and Lee had five swimmers
competing in the NCAA Division III
Championships scheduled for Canton, Ohio,
in late March.

Junior Gary Meyer of Roanoke will
compete in both the 50- and 100-yard
treestyle events, and freshman John Moody
will swim in the 100-yard butterfly.

Meyer, Moody, sophomore Bobby
Pearson of Louisville, Ky., and freshman
Tim Stantord of Miami, Fla., will compete
in the 800-yard freestyle relay while Moody,
Pearson, Meyer, and sophomore Taber Smith
of Darien, Conn., will be in the 400-yard
freestvle relay.

In dual meet competition this season the
General swimmers compiled a 4-4 record.

 

 

Indoor track fifth
in ODAC meet

Junior Charlie Alcorn of Victoria, Tex.,
finished second in the shot-put for the best
individual finish as Washington and Lee's
indoor track team placed among six teams at
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
indoor championships.

W&L received third place finishes in four
events: junior Angus McBryde of Charlotte,
N.C.. in the two-mile run; freshman Townes

30

lm... eB

 

Freshman swimmer Tim Stanford specializes in the butterfly.

Pressler of Houston in the high jump; the
4+40-yard relay team; and, the two-mile relay
team.

 

 

Wrestlers post 9-2 mark

Washington and Lee’s varsity wrestling
team compiled a 9-2 dual match record this
season, the best mark in the Generals’ 10
seasons under head coach Gary Franke.

Five Generals earned spots in the NCAA
Division III East Regional Tournament in
Trenton, N.J.

W&L junior Tim Valliere has the upper hand in one of his matches.

 

 

 

Sophomore Jeff Dixon of Duncan, Okla.,
finished fourth in that regional tournament in
the 190-pound competition while junior Tim
Valliere of Uncasville, Conn., (167 pound
division), junior Carlton Peebles of
Lexington (heavyweight), freshman Brian
Lifsted of Philadelphia (118), and freshman
Larry Anker of East Windsor, N.J., (134)
also competed in the regionals.

W&L’s victories came over Hampden-
Sydney (twice), Lynchburg (twice),
Davidson, Loyola, Furman, LaSalle, and
Longwood. Both losses were to Division I
institutions: Duke and Campbell.

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $115.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain with Crest in Gold, $65.00
f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

1922

Dewey A. REYNOLDS, former research chemist with
the U.S. Bureau of Mines, writes from his retirement
home in Holiday, Fla., that he received a W&L
jacket, cap, and tie for Christmas. They are especially
meaningful to Reynolds since he started the W&L
Supply Store in operation following World War I at
the direction of Richard A. (Cap’n Dick) Smith, then
athletic director and supervisor of the store. Reynolds
recalls that he and James G. Elms, ’24, now of Long
Beach, Calif., sold soft drinks, candy, and other such
items to the students on a special train to the W&L vs.
V.P.I. football game in 1921. W&L won the game
and Reynolds recalls they sold out of all supplies
before the return trip.

1926

CHARLES H. HAMILTON joined the Richmond News
Leader in 1926. He is still on the staff as a consultant
to Media General Inc., the parent company.

1927

Dr. BURCHARD S. PRUETT, of St. Louis, Mo., retired
from practice in 1957. He and his wife have celebrated
their 50th wedding anniversary.

1929

WILLIAM G. GAULT after 53 years of law practice is
now semi-retired and lives in Pittsburgh, Pa.

I. WILLIAM HILL, a former Washington, D.C.,
newsman, has joined The Island Packet, a publication
in Hilton Head, S.C. He will be responsible for the
newspaper’s books page. Hill, a new Hilton Head
resident, served as editor of the Washington Star for
40 years in between reporting for the Mobile (Ala.)
Press and acting as Washington correspondent for
Editor and Publisher magazine. In 1967 Hill served
as president of The Associated Press Managing Edi-
tors Association and was a member of the board of the
American Society of Newspaper Editors who visited
the Peoples Republic of China in October 1972.

1930

ABBOT A. HERMAN is an industry wine consultant in
New York City.

1932

JUDGE JACK G. MARKS retired in March of 1980.
However he continues to sit as a retired Judge. Re-
cently, he has sat on the Arizona Supreme Court, the
Arizona Court of Appeals, and his own court, the
Pima County Superior Court in Tucson, Ariz.

1933

WILLIAM J. BROOKS Jr., after a fine recovery from
illness in April 1982, has done considerable traveling.
He and his wife traveled in England during the fall
and in the Holy Land this past winter.

3]

 

SLE Soe Pik gam

 

 

 

 

 

—U.S. Agency for International Development
agreement.

1951

Morton B. SOLOMON is a partner in the international
accounting firm of Main Hurdman. He is currently
the firm’s national director of professional standards
and a member of it’s policy board.

1952

ERNEST H. CLARKE of Columbus, Ohio, is developing
a computer program for Capital University for their
undergraduate and law schools.

Capt. ROBERT F. CONNALLY retired from the Navy
in July 1982 after 30 years of commissioned service.
He and his family currently reside in Houston, Texas.

THE Rev. ROBERT D. SCHENKEL JR. completed 10
years as rector of the Church of the Good Shepherd in
Nashua, N.H. He served as a deputy from New
Hampshire to the Episcopal Church general conven-
tion in New Orleans in September 1982. Schenkel
was recently elected chairman of the Nashua Housing
Authority.

LESTER E. ZITTRAIN practices law in Pittsburgh, Pa.,
with his wife, Ruth, under the firm name of Zittrain
and Zittrain.

1953

CARL GRAIGHEAD FRITSCHE is currently manager of
proposal services in the contract services department
for Melpar Division. He has been employed by Mel-
par since 1959.

S1 GALPERIN JR. retired from the state Senate after 16
years of service. He lives in Charleston, W.Va.,
where he is engaged in the real estate business.

JAY W. JACKSON practices law in Hartford, Conn.,
and is also legal counsel to Gov. William O’ Neill.

HAYES C. MCCLERKIN of Texarkana, Ark., will be a
lecturer in oil and gas law for the spring semester at
the School of Law, University of Arkansas at Little
Rock.

CLAYTON A. STALLWORTH of Charleston, W.Va.,
has been named executive vice president of Kanawha
Banking and Trust Co. Stallworth joined KB&T in
1966 as credit officer, received several promotions,
and in 1979 became senior vice president for com-
mercial loans. He is on the Charleston Board of
Zoning Appeals, the Lawrence Frankel Foundation,
the Goodwill Industries, Robert Morris Associates,
and the Neighborhood Housing Fund. He also serves
on the board of the Sunrise Art Museum.

EDWIN P. (Cy) TWOMBLY Jr. had an exhibition of his
works on display at the Virginia Museum in Richmond
in December and January. The exhibition was titled
‘*Cy Twombly: Works on Paper, 1954-1976.’ A

review of the exhibition in the Richmond Times-

Dispatch called Twombly’s works on paper “‘a re-.

lentless confrontation between control and spontane-
ity.”

1955

WILLIAM H. BarTSCH is currently the senior liaison
officer of the International Labour Office for World
Bank relations. He is based in Washington, D.C.
Bartsch is listed in the 1983 Marquis International
Who’ s Who. He is working on a history of American
pilots in the 1941-42 Philippines campaign.

FRED M. BryYAnr III is general partner of Alex Brown
& Son in Baltimore, Md. He is president of the
Baltimore Bond Club and on the board of directors of
the Presbyterian Home of Maryland.

JAY W. JACKSON (See 1953.)

1956

Dr. ARISTIDES C. ALEVIZATOS of Sparks, Md., is
currently serving as president of the Maryland Society
of Internal Medicine.

J. ROBERT McHENRy is a sales representative operat-
ing out of Guilford, Conn. He also does considerable
officiating in football, lacrosse and women’s basket-
ball.

DANIEL B. THOMPSON is plant manager for the Chi-
cago plant of Campbell Soup Co.

1957

C. F. Davis has joined the Bank of Montreal in
Oakville, Ontario, as senior vice president in the
international banking division.

1958

ALLAN R. GITTER, an attorney in Winston-Salem,
N.C., has been elected a Fellow of the American
College of Trial Lawyers. He has been practicing law
for 19 years in Winston-Salem. Gitter is a member of
the Forsythe County and the State Bar Associations,
the International Association of Insurance Counsel
and the North Carolina Association of Defense Attor-
neys.

S. Scott WHIPPLE of Stamford, Conn., has written
an article about sales training trends which is expected
to appear in the January 1983 issue of the magazine,
Marketing Communications.

ERNEST H. CLARKE (See 1952.)

1959

ARTHUR GOTTSEGEN after 20 years in a variety of
business pursuits is retired. He and his wife enjoy
cruising on their sloop, the Sweet Revenge, whose
home port is in New Orleans.

RICHARD A. POWELL Is teaching seventh and eighth

grade English and high School reading at Misawa,
USAF base in northern Japan.

C. F. Davis (See 1957.)

1960

JOHN T. CRONE is president of Ray Ellison Develop-
ments, which develops, owns and manages a broad
range of commercial real estate in San Antonio,
Texas. He is also vice president and a member of the
executive and finance committees for Ray Ellison
Industries Inc. Among its many divisions and sub-
sidiaries are Ray Ellison Homes, the largest privately
owned home building company in the country; Lack-
land City Water Co., the largest privately owned
utility company in Texas; Richmond Lumber Co.;
San Antonio Title Co.; World Wide Realty Co. and
Valley-Hi National Bank. Crone and his wife, Kate,
have two children.

JACK C. GRONER of Baton Rouge, La., has recently
been promoted to the position of corporate vice presi-
dent, general counsel, for Blue Cross of Louisiana.

JOHN J. HAUN is president of MHO of Florida Inc., a
managing general insurance agency in Fort Lauder-
dale. He and his wife, Angela, have three sons.

NEAL P. LAVELLE, a Cleveland lawyer, has been
awarded a national certificate as a civil trial specialist
from the National Board of Trial Advocacy.

WILLIAM F. ROBERTSON III, an attorney in Green-
ville, S.C., is past president of the South Carolina
Trial Lawyers Association and currently a member of
the house of delegates of the South Carolina Bar
Association.

1961

FRANK B. WOLFE III is senior partner of the law firm
of Nichols and Wolfe Inc., in Tulsa, Okla. He and his
wife have a daughter, Katherine Marie, 13, and a
son, Frank Burleigh [V, 10.

1962

AUBREY B. CALVIN is a partner in the Houston law
firm of Calvin, Dylewski, Gibbs, Maddox, Russell
and Shanks. In addition to real estate, securities,
banking, tax, oil and gas, corporate, and bankruptcy
and creditor’s rights, the firm is involved in the area
of business crime. He and his wife, Alice, have a
daughter, 9-years old and a son, 8-years old. Calvin
is the past president and chairman of Young Audi-
ences Inc., a local chapter of a nation-wide organiza-
tion in school arts resources.

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL JR. is vice chief of staff of
the Medical Center in Nacogdoches, Texas. He is
involved in medical politics and serves as secretary-
treasurer of the County Medical Society. Carroll is
also on the executive committee of Greater East Texas
Health System Agency and on the State Health Co-
ordination Council.

(yo)
(y9

 

wife, Elise, have four children, Elise, 10, Brooks,
IV, 8, Anne-Lamar, 6, and Claire, 3. They live in
Bethesda.

ROBERT C. DEVANEY is manager of Zapata Saratoga,
a semi-submersible drilling rig, which is now drilling
for Shell Offshore Inc. in the Gulf of Mexico. He was
transferred back to Houston in October 1982 after
completion of two East Coast programs for Shell on
Georges Bank.

Dr. KIAH T. Forp III is in private practice with
Radiology Consultants of Lynchburg, Va. He and his
wife have two sons, Chip, 13, and Ian, 10.

VICTOR R. GALEF is vice president of marketed pro-
ducts strategy and creative service for the Menley and
James Division of Smith Kline Beckman Inc. Among
the products he markets are Contac, Ecotrin, Sineoff,
Dietac and Teldrin. He and his wife, Mimi, and three
children live in Malvern, Pa.

STEPHEN T. HIBBARD is a vice president of the Bank
of Boston in their public finance department in charge
of the Massachusetts group and a utilities revenue
group. He and his wife, Ginnie, have two sons and
the family lives in Weston, Mass.

CoL. RONALD J. KAYE is the staff judge advocate for
the Third Marine Air Wing at the Marine Corps Air
Station, El Toro, Calif. He is also an adjunct professor
of law at National University.

RICHARD R. KREITLER has a money management
firm, Dakota Partners, in Sun Valley, Idaho.

After four years in New York, S. REED PAYNTER has
been transferred by the DuPont Co. to the firm’s
Industrial Fibers Business Management Center in
Wilmington, Del., as planning manager.

In November 1982, ALEXANDER P. RASIN III was
elected commissioner for Kent County, Md. He had
served as president of the board of library trustees and
the board of directors of Kent School. Rasin is an
attorney in Chestertown, Md.

PATTERSON H. ROBERTSON of Austin, Texas, is en-
gaged in real estate and real estate investments.

PETER J. STELLING is director of sales and manager
of group operations for Executive Travel Inc. of
Atlanta, Ga.

. 1966

MARRIAGE: DONALD J. LINEBACK and Judy Ward
on May 22, 1982. They live in Memphis, Tenn.,
where Lineback is director of development for South-
western at Memphis and his wife is an attorney.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT R. BALDWIN, a
daughter, Elizabeth Marie, on Oct. 6, 1982, in Chat-
ham, N.J. Also in October Baldwin became staff
judge advocate of the 78th Division (Training), the
major Army Reserve command in New Jersey.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. REESE JR., a
daughter, Alexandra Rixon, on July 15, 1982, in
Berkeley, Calif.

JOHN C. HENSLEY JR. was designated a Chartered
Financial Consultant in 1982, the first year that
designation was offered by the American College in
Bryn Mawr.

VALS. MCWHORTER has been appointed to the board
of visitors for George Mason University by Gov.
Charles Robb.

In June 1982, GERARD T. TAYLOR became senior
production supervisor for Hoffman LaRoche Inc. in
Nutley, N.J.

H. THOMAS WakE is dean of students at the Gunnery
School in Washington, Conn.

Dr. M. NEELY YOUNG II is academic dean at Pace
Academy in Atlanta. He recently took two students to
the Orient for two and a half weeks to study with a
concentration on South Korea. Young and his wife,
Myra, have two sons, Josh, 5 and Carter, 2.

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL Y. SAUNDERS, a
son, Michael Joseph, on April 19, 1982, in Houston.
Saunders practices civil trial law for the firm of Helm,
Plitcher and Hogan, where he is a partner.

Dr. ROBERT S. BROWN Jr. is in the private practice
of obstetrics and gynecology in St. Joseph, Mich. He
and his wife, Judy, have three children, Peyton, 7,
Courtney, 5, and Tyler, 3.

THOMAS J. HARDIN II joined Interstate Securities
Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., during May 1982 as senior
research analyst.

Jon A. KERR withdrew from his partnership in the
Washington law firm of Hudson, Creyke, Koehler
and Tacke and opened his own law office in Leesburg,
Va., on Jan. 1, 1982.

Dr. STEVEN A. MANALAN Is director of the Sports
Medicine Center at the Burbank Regional Trauma
Center in Fitchburg, Mass. He also is an instructor in
orthopedics at Harvard Medical School.

Dr. JOHN R. MCGILL was elected to active member-
ship in the American Society of Plastic and Recon-
structive Surgeons at the annual meeting in Honolulu.
He aiso was elected a Fellow in the American College
of Surgeons and remains active in the American
Association of Hand Surgery. McGill lives in Hamp-
den, Maine.

WALTER S. NICKLIN III sold Country Magazine,
which he founded, to the A. S. Abell Co., publishers
of The Baltimore Sun. He continues as publisher of
the magazine, a regional publication for the Mid-
Atlantic states. Nicklin lives in Alexandria, Va.

Dr. WILLIAM H. SLEDGE has been selected for in-
clusion in Jane’s Who’s Who in Aviation and Space:
USA Edition. He is director of graduate education in
the Yale University School of Medicine’s Department
of Psychiatry. Sledge is also a candidate in the Wes-
tern New England Institute for Psychoanalysis. He
and his wife, Betsy, live in New Haven, Conn., with
their three daughters, ages 6, 4, and 1.

1968
MARRIAGE: WILLIAM C. SCHAEFER and Lynda Ann
Courtney on Sept. 25, 1982. Schaefer is general
manager of J. R. Brooks and Son of Homestead,
Fla., the largest lime, avocado and mango packing
firm in the state. They live in Miami.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. BENJAMIN H. JOHNSON III, a
daughter, Emily Ruth, on Nov. 20, 1982, in Bir-
mingham. Johnson is certified by the American Board
of Surgery and the American Board of Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery. He practices plastic surgery
at the Baptist Medical Center in Birmingham and is a
clinical instructor at the University of Alabama Hos-
pital.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. MADISON, a son,
James Robinson Jr., on April 8, 1982, in Shreveport,
La.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. RIDLEY III, ason,
Nathan William, on Aug. 21, 1982, in St. Louis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FIELDING L. WILSON JR., a
son, Jefferson Randolph, on Oct. 22, 1982, in Severna
Park, Md.

Dr. PauL A. BROwER has been elected a Fellow of
the American College of Surgeons and chief of surgery
at Saddleback Community Hospital. He is in a private
urology practice in Laguna, Calif.

ROBERT A. CASHILL, an employee relation’s special-
ist with Exxon Co., U.S.A. in Houston, Texas, has
accepted a loan assignment as an industrial engineer
with ARAMCO in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, for three
years.

1969

MARRIAGE: HEnrRy L. ROEDIGER III and Mary
Catherine Schiller on Sept. 3, 1982, in Toronto. In
1982 Roediger was promoted to professor of psy-
chology at Purdue University. He spent the 1981-82
year on sabbatical at the University of Toronto. His
third textbook, Introduction to Psychology, will be
published in November 1983 by Little, Brown and
Co. Roediger was named associate editor of the Jour-
nal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory
and Cognition in 1981.

MARRIAGE: W. WADE SAMPLE and Marcia Head on
Nov. 27, 1982. They live in Shreveport, La.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN C. HARRIS JR. adopted a
daughter, Rebecca Wilson, born Oct. 14, 1981. They

35

Class Notes

live in Florence, Ala., with a son, Clinton, 5. Harris
is a partner in the law firm of Harris and Hasseltine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. WILKERSON, a
daughter, Mary Lindsay, on Sept. 29, 1982, in Char-
lottesville, Va.

J. Scort APTER, president of Apter Industries Inc. in
McKeesport, Pa., is currently serving as president of
the McKeesport Area School board of directors. He
also serves on the board of information and volunteer
services of Allegheny County. In addition, Apter is
chairman of the review committee of the United Way
of Allegheny County and serves on the planning and
allocations committee. He and his wife, Ruth, have
three daughters.

Dr. WALTER H. GREEN practices emergency medi-
cine in Lynchburg, Va. He and his wife, Susan, have
four children, John, 7, twins Bethany and Nathan, 5,
and Rebekah, 6 months.

RALPH E. Pearcy II is a full-time student in the
LL.M. program in taxation at Georgetown Univer-
sity. As a Marine Corps judge advocate, he was one
of three chosen for the Marine Corps Special Educa-
tion Program for postgraduate legal studies. Pearcy,
his wife, Mary Jane, and daughters, Julia Anne, 6,
and Sarah Elizabeth, 4, live in Falls Church, Va.

PHILIP W. NORwoobp is the partner for finance and
legal of Trammell Crow Co. in Dallas. He joined the
firm, the largest private real estate developer in the
country, as a partner in the Washington, D.C. office.
In the summer of 1982, Norwood moved to the com-
pany headquarters in Dallas.

J. THOMAS WHETSTONE III is working on a master of
divinity degree at the Reformed Theological Seminary
in Jackson, Miss.

STANLEY E. ZIMMERMAN JR. was promoted to senior
vice president and head of the real estate division for
Boothe Financial Corp., a diversified real estate in-
vestment and equipment leasing company. He lives
in Wilton, Conn., with his wife, Kathy, and daugh-
ters, Marjorie and Laura.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD N. BUCKALEW JR.,
ason, Mark Darren, on Dec. 17, 1982, in Barrington,
N.J.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER R. MarTIN, a
daughter, Alicia Lynn, on Sept. 14, 1982, in Braden-
ton, Fla.

W. JOSEPH DOZIER JR. is vice chairman of the Meck-
lenburg County Civil Service Board which oversees
the local police department. He is an attorney in
Charlotte, N.C.

MasJ. C. GILBERT FRANK is stationed in Frankfurt,
West Germany, where he is director of the newborn
intensive care unit at the 97th General Hospital.

36

E. OWEN Perry III has been named president of
Southland Timber Co., a subsidiary of Canal In-
dustries Inc. He lives in Augusta, Ga.

WILLIAM A. VAUGHAN was promoted to colonel in
the U.S. Army Reserve. He is assistant secretary of
energy for environmental protection, safety and
emergency preparedness.

197]

On Jan. 1, 1983, DAvip L. BAIRD JR. became counsel
and assistant to the president of Exxon Chemical Co.
in Darien, Conn. He and his wife, Kathy, and family
live in Westport, Conn.

FRANK C. Brooks Jr. has formed his own firm,
F. C. Brooks and Co., a dealer in tax advantaged
investments. He and his wife, Jill, live in Greenwich,
Conn., with their three sons, Christopher, Robbie and
Parker.

Dr. CHRISTOPHER D. FRIEND moved to Charlottes-
ville, Va., from Boston, Mass., to start his own
cardiology practice.

ROBIN P. HARTMANN was elected chairman of the
antitrust section for the State Bar of Texas. He is a
partner in the Dallas law firm of Haynes and Boone.

JOHN R. HEATH is a member of the Atlanta Lacrosse
Club, southeastern club champions for the past three
consecutive years.

On Nov. 1, 1982, HENRY NOTTBERG III became
president of U.S. Engineering Co. in Kansas City.

On Jan. 1, 1983, WALTER G. PETTEY III transferred
to the Dallas office of Pettit and Martin, a San Fran-
cisco law firm.

In September 1982 ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE earned an
M.S. degree in management from the Sloan School
of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology. He is manager of industry marketing for the
utility industry with Prime Computer in Natick, Mass.

Dr. THOMAS E. REYNOLDS is a full partner in Cul-
peper Family Practice Associates in Culpeper, Va.

ROBERT G. WOODWARD was appointed associate tax
legislative counsel in the Office of Tax Policy of the
U.S. Treasury Department in October 1982. He has
been with that office in several capacities since Au-
gust 1981.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM G. ARNOT III, a
son, McDonald Sandefer, on Aug. 6, 1981, in Abi-
lene, Texas. Arnot is a partner in the law firm of
Glandon, Erwin, Scarborough, Baker, Choate and
Arnot.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. GRAYSON FITZHUGH, a
daughter, Frances Courtney, on Dec. 2, 1982, in

Middletown, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Scott E. LEBENSBURGER, a
son, Andrew Charles, on May 16, 1982. They live
near Arden, N.C. Lebensburger has opened his second
law office in western North Carolina since completing
his LL.M. in estate planning at the University of
Miami in 1980. He also holds an M.B.A. from Miami
and his J.D. from the University of Tulsa. He practiced
with the firm of Forman and Zuckerman from 1977 to
1980. Lebensburger is a founding member of the
Hendersonville, N.C., Estate Planning Council.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Epwarp G. Moore, a daugh-
ter, Amanda Cline, on Sept. 21, 1982, in Memphis.
Moore was elected chairman of the board of deacons
at Evergreen Presbyterian Church. He is director of
alumni relations for Southwestern at Memphis.

WILLIAM T. ANDERSON, who received his M.A. de-
gree in political science in August 1982 from George-
town University, is currently attending the National
War College, Fort Leslie J. McNair, Washington,
D.C., as the representative of the Department of the
Navy. The 10-month program provides education in
politico-military affairs to selected military officers
and career civil servants responsible for planning and
implementation of national security policy.

Dr. MICHAEL W. MCCALL practices dermatology in
Louisville and teaches in the dermatology department
at the University of Louisville Medical School.

Dr. FREDRICK H. SANDS practices internal medicine
in Maui, Hawaii. He also operates Maui Outdoor
Adventures which provides custom vacations. Sands
is amember of the executive board of the Maui Sierra
Club and active with Physicians for Social Respon-
sibility. In February 1982 he completed the Iron Man
Triathlon in Kona with a time of 14 hours, 18 minutes.

PETER D. SwakT is comptroller for the Cold Regions
Research and Engineering Laboratory in Hanover,
N.H. He and his wife, Cindy, live in Lyme Center.

1973
MARRIAGE: Scott A. RIEGER and Jan McLane on
Nov. 7, 1982, in Dallas. Rieger recently moved to
Dallas from New York to open the Southwest regional
office of Georgeson and Co. Inc. He is a vice presi-
dent and the regional manager for the investor rela-
tions and proxy solicitation firm.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. LAWRENCE M. CROFT, ason,
Tucker Crosswell on July 28, 1982. In November
1982, Croft became manager of Dominion Discount
Brokerage Services, the first bank sponsored discount
brokerage firm in Virginia. Croft, his wife, Susan,
and their four children live in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, a
daughter, Ivy Marion, on Oct. 25, 1982, in Shreve-
port, La.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. HILLMAN, a son,

 

 

 

David Layne on Aug. 18, 1982 in Raleigh, N.C.
Hillman is an assistant attorney general for the North
Carolina Department of Justice and is a specialist in
health care law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW HOLLINGER, a son,
Jeremy Gordon, on Aug. 13, 1982. Hollinger is with
IBM in Rochester, N.Y. During 1982 he received a
regional managers award and was named a finance
industry specialist.

CHARLES W. DUNN has taken a leave of absence
from his law firm to manage Middle Tennessee
Equipment and Supply Co., a construction equipment
business. Dunn and a partner started the company
two years ago in Nashville.

JAY H. KERN has become a partner in the New Orleans
law firm of Simon, Peragine, Smith and Redfearn.

W. REVELL Lewis III is a partner in the general
practice law firm of Tyler and Lewis. Lewis, his
wife, Nancy, and daughter, Mary, live in Parksley,
Va.

J. JASON MATTHEWS was a member of the U.S.
delegation to the Conference of European Cooperation
and Security held in Madrid, Spain. He is second
secretary for political affairs at the U.S. Embassy
there.

WILLIAM D. MILLER earned a master’s degree in
urban and regional planning from Virginia Tech in
April 1982. He now works for the housing rehabilita-
tion division for the village of Oak Park, Il.

1974
MARRIAGE: Douctas C. CHASE Jr. and Joelyn
Louise Matty on Aug. 8, 1981. They moved in June
1982 to Lexington where Chase is a free-lance writer
and sports broadcaster.

MARRIAGE: JouN M. Zamoiski and Jean Lois Favin
in February 1982. They live in New York where
Zamoiski is president of Leisure Time Promotions
Inc. , a two-year old marketing consultant firm which
specializes in the entertainment and cable television
industries.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. CRILLEY, a daugh-
ter, Mary Ellen, on Dec. 16, 1982, in Hanover, Pa.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JosEPpH P. MCMENaMIN, a
son, Peter Lane, on Sept. 6, 1982, in Upper Darby,
Pa.

CaPT. DAVID V. FINNELL is an English instructor at
West Point. Among the texts for one of his freshman
composition courses is The Painted Word by Tom
Wolfe, 51.

JOHN L. KIRKPATRICK JR. has been named director of
marketing and promotion by Owensboro on the Air
Inc., operator of cablevision, AM and FM radio
Stations in Owensboro, Ky.

 

   

Jk: Morison, "74

JOHNNY E. Morrison, a ’77 graduate of the Wash-
ington and Lee School of Law, was recently elected
commonwealth attorney for Portsmouth, Va. In
recognition of his outstanding service to the com-
munity Morrison was named ‘*Man of the Year’’ by
the local chapter of the Disabled American Veterans.

On Jan. 1, 1983, DAVID M. SHAPIRO became a partner
in the Richmond law firm of Coates, Comess, Moore,
Taylor, Grubbs and McGrath.

In September 1982, G. WATSON TEBO JR. became a
sales representative for medical diagnostic supplies
to hospital laboratories for the Syva Co. of Palo
Alto, Calif. He still lives in New Orleans and is also a
student pilot.

MARRIAGE: SAMUEL M. BELL and Susan G. Ander-
son on June 26, 1982, in Berkeley, Calif. They live in
New York where Bell is with Morgan Guaranty Trust
Co.

MARRIAGE: MATTHEW R. KRaFFT and Jean W.
Widmayer on July 10, 1982, in Bethesda, Md. Ray-
mond L. Rheault, ’75, and Patrick K. Sieg, ’76, were
members of the wedding. Among the guests were
Donald M. Hathway, ’75, J. Randolph Taylor, ’75,
Stuart B. Nibley, ’75, and Paul J. Maloney, ’76.
They live in Bethesda where Krafft is director of
quality control for the C.P.A. firm of Aronson,
Greene, Fisher and Co. In February 1983, he received
his M.B.A. degree from George Washington Uni-
versity.

MARRIAGE: Mas. JOHN I. MCCLURKIN III, USMC,
and Lt. Jo Anne Carlton, USN, on Oct. 31, 1982, in
Lynchburg, Va. McClurkin is stationed at Camp Le-
jeune, N.C., and his wife at Norfolk, Va. In the fall
they both expect concurrent orders to Okinawa.

MARRIAGE: JAMES WILSON and Emily Fenn Smith
on June 24, 1982, in Tell City, Ind. Wilson is general
manager of the News Publishing Co. of Tell City
which publishes two newspapers, two shopper’s
guides and provides commercial printing work.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN E. AREY, a daughter,
Amanda, on Nov. 7, 1982, in Tazewell, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. PAUL G. FirTH, a daughter,

‘ ae E
oe
w
7
Ds att |
rast

 

Monica Martha, on Nov. 16, 1982, in Macon, Ga.
Firth is the chief resident in obstetrics and gynecology
at the Medical Center of Central Georgia. In July
1983, he will start active duty with the U.S. Army
Medical Corps.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHANNING J. MARTIN, ason,
Lee Whitworth, on October 30, 1982. Channing is an
associate with the Richmond law firm of Williams,
Mullen, Christian, Pollard & Gray.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert H. NICKEL, a son,
Robert Sheppard, on March 3, 1982. Nickel works
for the Congressional Research Service at the Library
of Congress. They live in Potomac, Md.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. FRANKLIN P. SLAVIN JR., a
son, John William Joseph, on Jan. 1, 1982, in
Wytheville, Va.

In August 1982, LAWRENCE B. CAHOON was ap-
pointed assistant professor of biological sciences at
the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. He
teaches biological oceanography. During the summers
of 1981 and 1982, Cahoon performed post-doctoral
fellowships at the Mountain Lake, Va., biological
station.

In 1981, THoMAs B. Ramey III completed his
M.B.A. at the University of Texas and his M.A.
degree in Biblical studies from Dallas Theological
Seminary. He is director of marketing for the broad-
cast division of Buford Television Inc. in Tyler,
Texas.

Dr. CHARLES A. STEIN and his wife, Beth, live in
Greenville, N.C. Stein is a third-year resident in
pediatrics at the East Carolina University School of
Medicine.

1976
MARRIAGE: SPENCER W. MortEN III and Elizabeth
Mary Kelly on Sept. 11, 1982, in Locust Valley,
N.Y. George Haw, ’76, Bill Lands, ’76, Gregg
Amonette, ’75, and Greg Morten, ’79, were grooms-
men. Peyton Via, ’76, and Mark Pinson, ’75, were
among the guests. They live in Irvine, Calif.

BIRTH: Harriett D. Dorsey and Glenn F. Dorsey,
a daughter, Ellen Elizabeth, on Oct. 15, 1981. Dorsey
is a partner in the Blacksburg, Va., law firm of
Dorsey and Long. They have two other children,
Andrew, 4, and Tony, 17.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MarK M. Lawson, a son,
Matthew MacFaren, on Oct. 23, 1982, in Bristol,
Va.

ERNEST W. BARTLETT III was elected a vice president
of Bankers Trust Co. on Nov. 16, 1982. He is a
lending officer for the bank’s western division in Los
Angeles.

Dr. BEN R. BARTON is in his third year of a general
surgery residency at the Medical College of Virginia.

37

Class Notes

JEFF B. DUSEK is in his sixth year of practice as a
deputy district attorney for San Diego County, Calif.
He and his wife have two children, Jessica, 6, and
Becky, 4.

JAY R. FRIES is associated with the law office of John
G. Kruchko in Baltimore. The firm represents man-
agement in all areas of labor relations law including
equal employment opportunity cases and cases under
the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Fries lives in
Towson, Md.

R. CRAIG GRAHAM was promoted in July 1982 from
executive assistant, Sonitrol of Europe Inc., to mar-
keting manager for security systems and services for
Sonitrol Corp. of Orlando, Fla. He lives in Winter
Park.

DaviD S. MARTIN has established Martin Motors of
Atlanta Inc., specialists in preventive maintenance
and repair of Mercedes Benz automobiles..

M. REED MorGAN is a graduate student at Harvard
University.

JOHN NorkrIs is a partner in the Norfolk law firm of
Williams, Worrell, Kelly & Greer.

Dr. PAuL K. STILLWAGON is a second-year pediatric
resident at the Children’s Hospital of the University
of Alabama Medical Center in Birmingham.

1977

MARRIAGE: THomas A. BAUGH and Lockie W.
Mitchell on Nov. 20, 1982, in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. DOWNEY, a son,
John Robert III, on Nov. 24, 1982, in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. CLAIBORNE IRBY JR., a
son, Edward Claiborne III, on Oct. 27, 1982, in
Charlotte, N.C.

ROBERT A. CARPENTIER is associated with the Garden
City, N.Y., law firm of Soukup and Hibner.

DOUGLASS W. DEWING Is an associate with the Nor-
folk law firm of Kellam, Pickrell and Lawler, which
practices throughout the Tidewater area. He lives in
Portsmouth, Va.

H. DENNY GAULTNEY has been appointed manager
of marketing planning and development at Cox Cable
Communications Inc., a subsidiary of Cox Com-
munications Inc. of Atlanta. He had been national
merchandising manager for Coca-Cola USA in At-
lanta. Gaultney earned his M.B.A. at Emory Univer-
sity.

LEON F. JOYNER JR. has passed all parts of the required
examinations and is now an associate in the Society
of Actuaries.

DouGLas A. SCOVANNER was promoted and trans-
ferred by the Coca-Cola Co. to corporate on-premise

38

manager for the Pacific Coca-Cola Bottling Co. in
Seattle.

STEVEN D. WHITE is a sales representative for Exxon
in Virginia Beach. He plays for the Virginia Beach
Lacrosse Club and helps coach the lacrosse team at
Norfolk Academy.

1978

MARRIAGE: JERRY M. Bairp and Elizabeth Weichel
on Oct. 23, 1982, in Bradenton, Fla. Members of the
wedding were Mick Kohlenstein, ’77, John Hill, 78,
Douglas Byrd, ’79, and Jim Baird, ’75. Other alumni
guests included Bowman Williams, ’75, Doug Koh-
lenstein, ’77, and Jean Baxter, ’80L. Baird earned an
M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School in June
1982. They live in Fort Worth, Texas, where he
works for Mrs. Baird’s Bakeries.

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM K. BurTON and Gail Elizabeth
McIntyre on July 24, 1982, in Virginia Beach, Va.
Burton is presently a banking officer in the U.S. and
Canada Group of the Inter First Bank, Dallas N.A.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD B. MCDANIEL and Heather
M. Rodts on Oct. 23, 1982, in New Canaan, Conn.
Will Clemens, ’78, was best man while Laury Mc-
Daniel, ’73, Don Cowser, ’78, Mike Wallis, ’78, and
Chris Dietz, ’77, were in attendance. They live in
Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

KARL G. BAKER has been promoted to coordinator of
inventory and production planning at the Harris
Corp., Bindery Systems Division, Elyria, Ohio plant.
He also serves as a volunteer for the allocations
committee of the local United Way.

ROBERT P. BASKIN has resigned his position as an
energy banking officer at the National Bank of Com-
merce in San Antonio and is pursuing an M.B.A. at

      

  

'
‘| ee

°
”
re
an
ee UE
iit ta,
t "Ny ' eee Gir a
“any 5
ae Ly y
ii rn al ,
rene ee, Codie «HD
wl t 4
S A
4
i i
f

4
‘ ‘,
i Clin,

the Colgate Darden Graduate School at the University
of Virginia.

GEORGE L. CARSON Jr. has been promoted to mer-
chandising manager for the Southeast by the Walker
Division of Tenneco Automotive. He was transferred
from New Jersey to Atlanta.

Ltr. DAviID W. CHESTER is officer in charge of an 80-
foot training vessel assigned to YP Squadron 10 at the
Naval Education and Training Center, Newport, R.I.
He supervises the instruction of officer candidates
and newly commissioned ensigns in seamanship and
navigation. Chester expects to enjoy patrol duty during
the America’s Cup Race in the summer of 1983.

CaPT. JOHN S. HUDSON is stationed at the Pentagon
where he works for the assistant chief of staff for
intelligence. Prior to this assignment, he completed a
six-month military intelligence advanced course in
Arizona.

ROBERT Q. JONES JR. completed a 3 and a half year
tour with a forward deployed infantry battalion in
Germany and retired from the U.S. Army in Septem-
ber 1982 with the rank of captain. He and his wife,
Ann, live in Athens, Ga., where Jones is a first-year
law student at the University of Georgia.

Dr. ROBERT N. MUCCIOLA is a resident in obstetrics
and gynecology at William Beaumont Army Medical
Center in El Paso, Texas.

HEARTSILL RAGON III graduated from the University
of Arkansas School of Law in May 1982. He is
corporate attorney at the headquarters in Little Rock
of Fairfield Communities Inc., the largest timeshare
real estate developer in the nation.

HENRY C. ROEMER III earned an M.B.A. from the
Babcock School of Management at Wake Forest Uni-
versity. He works in the investor relations department
of Lowe’s Companies Inc. in North Wilkesboro,
N.C.

STEPHEN P. RODGERS is working on a Ph.D. in eco-
nomics at the University of Virginia.

ROBERT B. TREMBLAY was promoted to photography
editor for the Wellesley Townsman, the weekly news-
paper in Wellesley, Mass.

1979

MARRIAGE: J. J. LANDERS CARNAL and Mary
Wallace White on Oct. 9, 1982. Fritz Fischer, ’79,
and Fred Forsyth, ’80, were groomsmen while Rich-
ard Huck, ’79, Dickey Finney, ’80, and Greg Morten,
"80, were guests. They live in St. Louis where Carnal
is a commercial banking officer in the multinational
division of Centerre Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL A. BURNETTE, a
son, Michael Alan Jr., on Dec. 20, 1982, his father’s
birthday, in Columbia, S.C.

RICHARD M. BARRON is one of two news editors for

Journal-Sentinel Newsscan, a cable television elec-
tronic newspaper service in Winston-Salem, N.C.

WILLIAM L. HALLAM is co-author of the text, Con-
sumer Bankruptcy and Chapter 13 Debt Adjustments.
It was published by the Maryland Institute for Con-
tinuing Professional Education of Lawyers. He lives
in Baltimore, Md.

HENRY Y. HAMILTON is a branch manager for Trust
Company Bank of Gwinnett County in Lawrenceville,
Ga.

JOHN S. HySLop is working on a master’s degree in
physics at Virginia Tech. He plans to pursue a doc-
torate.

JOHN E. MCDONALD Jr. works with an executive
group for Coca-Cola, USA, in the introduction and
promotion of Diet Coke. He and his wife, Vanna, live
in Baltimore.

Ist Lt. CarLos C. SOLARI completed a three-year
tour of duty in Germany and now attends the military
school in communications engineering at Keesler Air
Force Base in Biloxi, Miss.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK has moved from New York to
Houston, where he is a leasing executive for Wein-
garten Realty Inc., a major shopping center de-
veloper.

CHANNING J. MARTIN (See 1975.)

1980

MARRIAGE: BETsy M. CALLICOTT and WILLIAM R.
GOODELL on June 19, 1982, in Memphis. In the
wedding were Jack S. Callicott, ’49, the bride’s
father, Jean Baxter, ’80L, and Carolyn Saffold-
Heyward, ’81L. Other alumni present were Bob Mc-
Cullough, ’58L, Stan Brading, ’79L, Joan Gardner,
"80L, Tom Henson, ’80L, Murray Holland, °75,
"80L, Jim Osick, ’80L, Walt Kelley, ’77, ’81L,
Kirkland Molloy Kelley, °82L, Bucky Wellford,
*81L, and Anne Arney, ’82L. They live in Washing-
ton, D.C.

MARRIAGE: Desra J. PFEIFFER and Edward T.
Morriss on May 15, 1982, in Falls Church, Va.
Pfeiffer and her husband are attorneys for the U.S.
Department of Labor in Washington. They live in
Alexandria, Va.

Ist Lr. RICHARD J. ALLEN JR. is executive officer of
the Combat Support Co., 2nd Battalion, 17th Infantry
at Ft. Ord, Calif. In the past year he was deployed
with his unit to Ft. Wainwright, Alaska, and to Pana-
ma. Allen also is studying Arabic through the Defense
Language Institute. His wife, Cynthia, a captain in
the Army Medical Corps, is the commander of MED-
DAC Co. at the Silas B. Hayes Army Community
Hospital at Ft. Ord.

THOMAS E. DuTTON will graduate from the North-
western University School of Law in June. He will

become an associate with the Columbus, Ohio, law
firm of Bricker and Eckler.

ANGUS E. FINNEY is a third-year law student at the
University of Baltimore. He has been a clerk for the
Towson, Md., firm of Cook, Howard, Downes and
Tracy, where he will become an associate after
graduation.

JOHN C. HAMILTON has been transferred by First
National Bank of South Carolina from assistant branch
manager in Camden to Columbia where he will serve
as manager of college relations in the personnel de-
partment. He will be in charge of the management
training program at the bank.

RICHARD P. MORAN Jr. is an investment counselor
for Capital Analysts Inc. in Washington, D.C. He
lives in Arlington, Va.

JAMES H. PARKER has worked two years as a reporter
for The News in Kingstree, S.C.

DOUGLAS A. PECKHAM is assigned to the India Desk
at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York.

REID M. SLAUGHTER is publisher and editor of Park
Cities People, a weekly newspaper in Dallas.

MITCHELL S. WYNNE Is vice president of Exploration
Investments Inc. of Fort Worth, Texas, an oil and gas
exploration firm active on the Texas Gulf Coast.

1981
MARRIAGE: Nate L. ADaAms III and Elizabeth
Coleman in August 1981. They live in Roanoke where
Adams is clerk for the U.S. District Court for the
Western District of Virginia.

MARRIAGE: W. Currin SNIPES JR. and Frances
Alla Robinson on Aug. 21, 1982, in Huntsville,
Texas. They live in Greenville, N.C. Snipes is the
morning news anchorman for WITN-TV in Wash-
ington, N.C.

JOHN G. P. BOATWRIGHT JR. is a second-year medical
student at the University of Virginia.

STANLEY K. Doosin attends the graduate school of
business at Emory University.

ANDREW M. GrISEBAUM formerly involved in the
evaluation and sale of tax-sheltered investments for
Banyan Corp. in Dallas, is now a first-year law
student at South Texas College of Law in Houston.

KEVIN K. LEONARD expects to earn his M.S. degree
in geology from Texas A&M University during June.

JOHN W. B. NORTHINGTON is a credit analyst for the
First National Bank of Midland, Texas. He is on the
board of the Midland County March of Dimes and
treasurer of the Midland County Young Republicans.
Northington and his wife, Michele, live in Midland.

JOHN J. STATHAKIS studied business at the University
of South Carolina last year and is now a first-year law
student at the Cumberland School of Law at Samford
University in Birmingham.

1982
MARRIAGE: KENNETH K. MCPHEETERS II and
Carolyn Priscilla Ream on June 12, 1982, in North
Kingstown, R.I. James Tommins, ’79, Sprunt Wat-
kins, ’82, John Psillas, ’80, and William Dederick,
"83, were present. They live in Charlottesville, Va.
McPheeters is the Mid-Atlantic and Mid-West repre-
sentative for Zaca Mesa Winery of Los Olivos, Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Larry A. BARDEN, a son,
Matthew James, on Dec. 5, 1982, in Evanston, III.
Barden is an attorney with the Chicago firm of Sidley
and Austin.

LESTER L. BaTEs III has begun studies for an LL.M.
degree in international securities regulation at the
University of Georgia.

F. ANDREW Boyp is taking three years of architecture
courses at Virginia Tech to earn a master’s degree.

WILLIAM F. L. BROWN is a currency trader on the
London International Financial Futures Exchange for
S.N.W. Commodities, Ltd.

Lt. MiLton D. CHALKLEY III is a platoon leader
with F Troop, 2nd Squadron, 1 1th Armored Cavalry
Regiment in Bad Kissengen, Germany.

R. CHRISTOPHER COOGAN is an accountant for the
Melpar Division of E-Systems in Falls Church, Va.

CHANNING M. HA_t III is a law student at the College
of William and Mary.

BENJAMIN F. JARRATT II is assistant editor of the
White House News Summary in Washington, D.C.
He lives in Alexandria, Va.

KENNETH S. Lucas Jr. attends the Wake Forest
School of Law.

NELSON E. OULD has completed the general manage-
ment training program and joined the corporate bank-
ing loan administration department of Wachovia Bank
and Trust in Winston-Salem.

JOSEPH A. PALETTA is presently a first-year law stu-
dent at Duquesne University Law School in Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

Hoiiis W. PLIMPTON III will earn his M.Ed. in
counseling from Boston University in May 1983.

CHARLES H. PRIOLEAU is with the credit division of
Texas Commerce Bank in Houston.

THOMAS Y. SAVAGE passed the Virginia State Bar
and opened his own law office in Fredericksburg, Va.

3D

Class Notes

ROBERT T. SCHMIDT works in the sales department
for Northern Virginia Broadcasting. He lives in Mc-
Lean, Va.

KARL R. SENING is a staff accountant with Coopers
and Lybrand. He lives in Fairfax, Va.

ROBERT M. WAYMOUTH is studying for a Ph.D. in
chemistry at the California Institute of Technology in
Pasadena.

 

In Memoriam

 

1924

LEE GRIFFITH BENFORD, an attorney in Somerset,
Pa., died June 23, 1982. Benford was a member of
the Washington and Lee Ambulance Corps during
World War I. His decorations included the Croix de
Guerre.

EDWARD HENRY HowarbD, registrar emeritus of
Washington and Lee University, died Dec. 13, 1982,
in Waynesboro, Va. He had lived in Lexington for
more than 37 years before moving to Waynesboro in
1978. After graduation from W&L in 1924, Howard
joined the faculty as an instructor that same year. He
received his master’s degree in business from Colum-
bia University in 1932 and became registrar in 1953,
a post he retained until his retirement in 1966. Howard
was a member of the Mountain City Masonic Lodge
and the American Philatelic Society.

THE REV. ANDREW EMERSON JOHNSON of Staunton,
Va., died Dec. 28, 1982, in Pittsburgh, Pa. He re-
ceived his theological degree from Union Theological
Seminary in 1929. Johnson was pastor of the Mon-
terey, Va., Group of Presbyterian Churches from
1929 to 1963, and pastor of the Tygart’s Valley
Group of Presbyterian Churches at Huttonsville,
W.Va., from 1963 to 1972. Johnson was author of a
book Presbyterianism in Highland County, Vir-
ginia.

1930

HUGH LYNN Cayce, chairman of the board of the
Association for Research and Enlightment and a well
known lecturer in parapsychology, died in July 1982.
His father, Edgar Cayce, was also a prominent in-
vestigator of psychic phenomena. Hugh Cayce, who
was internationally known, lectured, taught, and
wrote on meditation, dream analysis, and spiritual
development.

1933

WAYNE LUDWICK FLAGG, a retired industrial engi-
neer with Proctor & Swartz Inc., of Philadelphia,
died Dec. 10, 1982, in Abington, Pa. Wayne had
retired 10 years ago.

40

1934

ROWAN SPENCER ROBINSON, a custom clothier in
Dallas, Texas, and formerly owner and operator of
the Children’s Fashion Center in Roswell, N. Mex.,
died Dec. 5, 1982, in Albuquerque.

1936

REV. JOHN WALKER VINSON JR., associate minister
of the Bartlesville (Okla.) First Presbyterian Church
and pastor emeritus of the First Presbyterian Church
of Bentonville, Ark., died Dec. 9, 1982. Rev. Vinson
was born of missionary parents in Haichow, China,
and spent his early childhood in China. He came to
the United States in 1929 and attended high school in
Lexington, Va., and later Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. He also attended Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond where he received his divinity degree in
1939. In 1940 Vinson went to China as a missionary
and was transferred to the Philippines as.a safety

‘measure when World War II was imminent. He was

captured by the Japanese and was confined to con-
centration camps for the duration of the war. After his
liberation he returned to the United States but went
back to China for missionary work until China was
closed because of the Communist takeover in 1949.
He then returned to the U.S. to become pastor of the
Presbyterian Church in Rocky Mount, Va. Rev. Vin-
son went to Oklahoma in 1950 and served pastorates
in Tulsa and Sallisaw before moving to Bentonville,
Ark., in 1958 where he served the First Presbyterian
Church as pastor for 21 years. During his life Vinson
participated in many civic organizations and held
various offices in Presbyteries and Synods of the
Church.

1938

HENRY THOMAS MERRITT, an attorney in Louisville,
Ky., and a Navy veteran of World War II, died Oct.
16, 1982. He was a founding committee member of
the Louisville Rehabilitation Center.

     

    
   
  

 

     
     
  

AR arn a fie rrr

fl Torr rr ms
a i. cm oat Lo me un Pe

 
 
    

 

 

 

vey

 
 

1939

REV. WILLIAM Harry KIBLER JR., who for some 31
years served as a pastor for the Lutheran Social Serv-
ices of Central Ohio, died Nov. 28, 1982, in Colum-
bus, Ohio. Before being associated with Lutheran
Social Services, Kibler was pastor of a parish in
Miamisburg, Ohio. In 1945 he was called to be in-
stitutional chaplain with the Lutheran Social Services
of Pittsburgh, Pa. Then in 1951, he was called to be
supervisor of chaplaincy services and assistant to the
executive director of Lutheran Social Services of
Central Ohio. Kibler was chaplain of the Ohio Tuber-
cular Hospital, chaplain of the Alum Crest Hospital,
and chaplain at Children’s Hospital.

ANDREW JACKSON WHITE, president and executive
officer of the Palmetto Loom and Reed Co. of Green-
ville, S.C., died Dec. 14, 1982. A native of Weston,
W.Va., White served with the U.S. Air Corps during
World War II. He was on the board of directors of the
First National Bank of South Carolina, a member of
the Poinsett Club, the Greenville Country Club, the
Cotillion Club, and the Poinsett Investment Club.

1951

HARRY ANDERSON (JAKE) BERRY JR., a prominent
attorney and senior partner of the Charlotte, N.C.,
law firm of Berry, Hogewood, Edwards & Freeman,
P.A., died Jan. 19, 1983. Berry served in the U.S.
Navy from 1953 to 1956. He was a member of the
Auditorium-Colliseum-Civic Center Authority from
1970 to 1981 and was chairman during the 1980-81
year. Berry was also on the board of directors of the
Greater Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. A member
of the American, Virginia and North Carolina Bar
Associations, Berry joined the firm of Lassiter, Moore
and Van Allen in Charlotte in 1952 and became a
partner in 1958. He established his own practice in
1960. Berry was on the board of trustees for Charlotte
Latin School, president of the Piedmont Better Busi-
ness Bureau, president of the Charlotte Nature
Museum Inc., and treasurer of the Charlotte Sym-
phony Inc. At the time of his death Berry was presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee University Law
School Association.

1973

DAVID STUART GROSSMANN, a teacher of history at
Jacksonville Country Day School in Jacksonville,
Fla., died Jan. 16, 1983. Grossmann was also a coach
of the soccer and tennis teams as well as a camp
counselor for the Jacksonville Country Day School.

1981

JAMES FREDERICK ABELOFF of Richmond, after a
long illness of a blood disease, died Dec. 9, 1982, in
Duke University Hospital.

1982

MOHAMMED ZEID DaJANI died in an automobile ac-
cident Jan. 7, 1983, in Amman, Jordan.

 

ak lel een ill ee,

 

wo"!
A i:
2. NY

SSS .
Xs
SN

 

 

 
 
     

 

THE W&L ALUMNI COLLEGE

presents
Three Vacation Seminars

‘‘Law and Society’
June 26-July 2, 1983

An inquiry into the legal system as we see it, as we use it, and as it affects us. Led
by professors L. H. LaRue, Andrew McThenia, and Sidney Coulling. Guest
speakers include Paul Maslansky, Hollywood film producer, and Dr. James B.
White, Professor of Law at the University of Chicago.

“The Antebellum South: American Arcadia?’’
July 10-16, 1983

A study of the Old South, 1820-1860, from three perspectives: historical, cultural,
and sociological. Professors Severn Duvall, J. Holt Merchant, and David Novack
will be the guides. Guest speakers include Dr. John McCardell, Professor of His-
tory at Middlebury College, and Parke Rouse, former Executive Director of the
Jamestown Foundation. Music, films, and tours.

‘Japan: Beyond the Headlines’
July 31-August 6, 1983

An examination of Japan and its people through the country’s history, literature,
and social culture, directed by professors Minor Rogers, John Evans, Roger
Jeans, and James Yashiro. Guest speakers include Lloyd Dobyns, NBC News
correspondent, and several Japanese guest artists.

An exciting supervised Junior Program accompanies each of these Seminars.

Registration deadline: May 1, 1983
Please direct questions to Robert Fure, Program Coordinator, Office
ot Summer Programs. Phone: (703) 463-9111, ext. 290.

Register Tow!

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of hoe 10 Mae os ezete ___ Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON ANDLEEUl SS ON Amon, mina 2080
(USPS 667-040) : OP A Oe NOLS IEE A i sh ee es oe
Lexington, Virginia 24450 PY unos Wwe 4 es ” ¥y ou

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
‘ PLATES :

 

 

 

