 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

oy

JANUARY/
FEBRUARY 1985

 
   

. ey ;
S egle
an)
7

or i . prc
| i

   
 
  
 

oe

  
   

Is ——ESEES=— . : oe _ ober mame TS ~ an mE Bo
1S =) at anf es Leer Oe eae ® é Ss 6% 80 foe ; ay Sis
sg We = #, 7 ° : ‘ \

alam” line,” 3 : tan 8e

Ss <= ff , satel =
j ‘ oe a b
me => as er

waa A thi! Wormers
3 if 1
, \NE = \
och YR

 

     

 

 

2
e
\

:

tees
3:
,a5
"> 4

,
s
a

wi,

=. aa “tbe . 4 ‘ . p - ¥ F e
< ret ee { «a? 4 a - 4 \ s os Aa)
Are 4 ’ | : "42 vf biel, Uh \, wr ‘4 <1 ets "re 7 ee Ih ° ; 5 * o “3 i
: A He & | 2 ese ete
Fey, 4 ; n= 8: =}! ‘ a OR tS
MOPS Stee 2°. ; > -——_ ea vo — “= aoe
aS “aM 4 a a : . ih +e Z ee ‘ 3 =e |

    
  
 

* { ‘ By ade fee! is rt tT Sieg ce :

( } . ‘. =es + S eae ’, if ary
; : - = : r 1 o3ldb Fede sgt ti “4 ~ > ®’
i a ur SL. TYP Se RE RRS

”
+
o
.
~
“

pee ~_—

Moet

i q
+ XY
4
a be pA . 4
. “a
e oe J Ls A e
} ‘ ae -
i oe: Dw Y O 5 |
a
! i re
A »
: « A « ay . .
‘ 4 eS Ht 7 i
qrvee 7
~*~ eh) ‘
——$— i 7
a

 

————— ee 8 i O ’ = -_ “ > ca mr b
anne ry 1 ae hasie x 5 U at, “ \ 4
Tae con Smee

a . : fy o N S <s = Ay .
: ie = ‘ F oe Py reo ee — - Va, > . i. ea ct Magte
na > SOA a
Pea CS OO . seca
tA Xt he I rs my v4
Pt i RON std, ‘
SA eer be Na oe
Po v x é.

A
B P
waft Le

ba

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 60, Number 1, January 1985

Frank A. Parsons, 54 .... 0.0.0... cc eee eee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna..................... Associate Editor
Mobert: Pure so). secs cede cs ce be Contributing Editor
i COR NS e+ Lae ete ow Soa we ks Editorial Assistant
mAmiene THOMAS hs eS Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73. 0. 003 oes vine ev Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
They’ re Really Students. 25.5 cc. saids vo vcctecs ce oesc cakcean 1
Sorentilic: Surfer. <i. cse. Fis oo. ccces ss cages a as eee 5
Baking Voters Pulsesss ci. 2e.sckc ooh ese ickscs ee 8
Fyeasurer’s REPO. iscosss ois ings dsc'ecesve¥dcdsionccsveg wees 12
CRA h ec seers A cpa cuca cat ones een sa ce a 17
Spring Sports Schedules... ....c...c..i..ces00scccnseetcubseusess Zo
Wheeling Across the U.S.) ...ccccccc.ccdocic ccceccteacvecbere 26
From the Alumni President...................ccccceescceeeeecs 28
Namie: VOUT CamGsate. iiss ioc css cscusssacciadcsunbonciacles. 29
TCE TO Nites on c65 fa cus ben heen eee ee 30
CLASS ANON eis es tn dics ceesindes. crear ke ere 34
BED: DYACTINON VA oi og cbs os goon vn ks heii vod eee PR deeds cs 38
PING: FUT NOTIRe ite. cid cea ee tee 2 seed cu kee 39

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through
the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Change in frequency pending.

Copyright © 1985, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt JR., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
President

JAMES W. MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York, N.Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssomMs, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 768, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. Nat BAKER, ’67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTSs, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69, Dallas, Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
HEnry NortTsBeErc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN Poynor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rick M. TILLey JR., ’58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CV

v

ON THE COVER: The Alumni House was drawn by artist
Chris Bowring, 34, who happens to be a Washington and
Lee sophomore and one of three ‘‘non-traditional’’
undergraduate students at W&L this year. The presence of
such older students adds another dimension to the classroom.
A story about these ‘‘non-traditional’’ students begins on

page 1.

 

 

 

 

Junior Ted DeLaney, 41

Yes, They
Really Are
Students

‘Non-traditional’ Undergrads
Add Diversity to Classroom

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Chris Bowring is 34 years old, married, father of two, an
accomplished artist, owner and manager of a housepainting
business, past president of the Rockbridge Baths Fire
Department.

Ted DeLaney is 41, married, father of one, a former
biology laboratory technician, president of the Lexington

PTA, secretary of the Rockbridge County Board of Elections.

Robert Harrison is 32, divorced, father of one, Navy
veteran, former owner of a Pepperidge Farm franchise,
newspaper carrier, gas station clerk, housepainter.

One other thing: all three are Washington and Lee
undergraduates. They are full-time degree candidates—
Bowring is a sophomore; DeLaney, a junior; Harrison, a
senior.

ge

Senior Robert Harrison, 32

 

| ee

%

 

On many, perhaps most, college campuses these days
students would scarcely bat an eye at the presence of an older
undergraduate. At Washington and Lee, they represent a rare
breed.

DeLaney knows how rare: ‘‘I was in a class last year when
a student gave me a funny kind of glance and asked quite
politely, ‘Are you really a student here?’ When I told him I
was, he said, ‘Hey, that’s great!’ ”’

Adds Harrison: ‘‘During my first year at W&L there was
at least one other older student, Israel Redd, attending classes
here, and the two of us happened to be in a class together.
The first day I overheard two students talking about Israel.
One of them said: ‘Did you see that guy in our class? Why,
he’s got to be at least 30 years old!’ ”’

Really Students

In a highly-publicized report issued last fall a federal panel
on higher education noted the diversity of the country’s 12
million students and cited this statistic: two out of every five
undergraduates are over the age of 25. Today, more and more
colleges and universities, especially those located in urban
areas, are actively pursuing these non-traditional students.

Although W&L has always had a few such non-traditional
students scattered among the undergraduate population, they
are primarily enrolled as special students or merely auditing a
course. Among other things, the University’s location, its
costs, and its requirement that graduates must spend a
minimum of two years of resident study as full-time students
serve to limit the undergraduate student body to a traditional
makeup.

The advent of undergraduate coeducation may alter that to
some degree. In years past the University has had an agree-
ment with Mary Baldwin College whereby a woman could
enroll in classes as a special student at W&L and earn credit
toward a degree from Mary Baldwin. Those students would be
able to receive their degrees at W&L in the future.

‘““We may see a few more non-traditional students because
of coeducation, but I don’t anticipate significant numbers
simply because we are not located in the large, metropolitan
area where such enrollment patterns are typical,’’ says W&L
admissions director William Hartog.

What is clear, however, is that those older undergraduates
who do chose to pursue an undergraduate degree from W&L
usually become valuable members of the University
community.

Consider this comment from a 20-year-old undergraduate
who was a classmate of DeLaney’s in a politics course.

“‘One day we were studying some aspect of the civil rights
movement,’ recalls Marty Chapman. ‘‘Ted listened to some
of the things we had to say and then said, ‘I was there, and
this is what happened.’ We all paid attention. We were all two
years old when it had happened.”’

Similarly, Harrison was able to cite first-person accounts in
his marketing and finance classes from his days as the owner
of a Pepperidge Farms franchise. ‘‘Mostly, I found out where
I had gone wrong and shared that,’’ says Harrison, who hopes
to receive his degree by the end of this academic year.

Perhaps DeLaney, more than the other two, recognizes
how different his perspective is. He is the oldest of the three;
he is black; and, he had spent 20 years at Washington and
Lee as the biology lab technician before becoming a full-time
student.

‘‘When you are in class with the students, you begin to
notice the extreme amount of homogeneity in the student
body,’’ says DeLaney. ‘‘Not only are they the same age and
basically from the same socioeconomic background, but they
all share the same points of view.

**You sit there and can get pretty much the same response
on any given issue from any one of them. So I think anybody
different in the classroom here is a positive thing in the educa-
tion of the student body.”

Bowring finds that the different perspective he brings to
his classes is often the primary point of contact between him
and the other undergraduates.

‘Most of the kids when we begin to talk are interested in
what it was like being 18 years old 16 years ago. They are in-
terested in my perspective,’’ he says. ‘‘But that is not really a

2

The DeLaneys: Ted, Pat, and Damien, 7

very lasting point on which to build a relationship.”’

Although many of their fellow students appreciate the dif-
ferent dimension they bring to the classroom because of their
age and experience and current circumstances, beyond the
classroom those same characteristics serve to isolate the three
from the rest of the undergraduate population.

On the whole, all three feel they are accepted by fellow
students—accepted, if not exactly embraced.

DeLaney: ‘‘I do sometimes think it would have been more
enjoyable for me in an environment where there are more
older students. Here I often feel left out. But I understand
that fully. When I was 20 I certainly didn’t look to 40-year-
olds to be my buddies.’’

Adds Bowring: ‘‘Since I am not their age and don’t go to
the fraternity parties, most of the students simply don’t have
anything to do with me. The ones who do are those I get to
know in class and we share basically that which occurs in
class .. . | am pretty much taken up by my own social life,
being married and having children, so the time that I spend
on campus is primarily academic.”’

As Bowring suggests, he and the others are more apt to
share a kinship with their professors rather than their fellow
students. That point was driven home one morning when he
happened upon a geology professor hurrying one of his young
children along the corridors of Howe Hall. ‘‘The professor
looked at me and said, ‘You’re probably the only one in this
school that understands this.’ That was true.’’

The relationship with their professors, some of whom are
younger than these students, has occasionally been a source of
concern to DeLaney who resents any insinuation that some
teachers go easier on him because they are friends of long
standing.

‘*At 41 years old it’s important to have a sense of ac-
complishment, and I don’t want anyone to give me anything
nor do I think they would,”’ he says. ‘‘I have the highest
regard for (history professor) Holt Merchant. He is my ad-
viser. But I’ve gotten a C from Holt, and we’ve been just as
good friends as ever.’’

 

 

Almost without question, the professors enjoy having
students such as DeLaney, Bowring, and Harrison in their
classes. ‘‘They read the same material but raise questions that
are different from those that an 18-year-old would raise,’’ says
religion professor Harlan Beckley. ‘‘I’d love to have 10 per-
cent older students—leaven for the bread, you might say.”’

Different perspectives aside, these non-traditional students,
especially those who would come full-time, bring another
dimension in that they approach their studies with a sense of
purpose that is often missing from their younger counterparts.
They are in the classroom not because they are expected to be.
Instead, they have made a conscious decision to be there—a
decision that invariably requires extraordinary adjustments in
their lifestyles.

“‘We get very few non-traditional applicants, but those
who do come are likely to be far more serious than the
average undergraduate because they are having to pay their
own way to an expensive college,’’ says Hartog. ‘‘They aren’t
going to waste their money.’’

In that regard, Bowring takes what must be quite a dif-
ferent view of his status as a student than other
undergraduates. Explains Bowring: ‘‘I look at the professor as
someone I am paying. He works for me. If he doesn’t per-
form up to my expectations, then I will be dissatisfied and
may make other arrangements. I find that I am more ag-
gressive than some other students who are intimidated by
some of their teachers. When you come at my age and when
you pay on your own, I think you do pursue it differently.’’

There can be another intimidation factor at work,
however. Harrison readily confesses that he has occassionally
been intimidated by his classmates.

‘‘They are coming out of a stronger educational
background than I am and while they may have to adjust
their study patterns, they haven’t had to learn them all over
again the way I have,’’ says Harrison.

DeLaney, on the other hand, finds that rather than being
intimidated by the undergraduates, he occasionally becomes
frustrated by some of them who are not as serious about their
work as he is. ‘‘I would say the great majority of W&L
students are serious about their work. But there are enough
who are not serious that they are very obvious,’’ DeLaney
says. “‘I see situations where I think Mommy and Daddy’s
money is being wasted, and I guess I resent that because I
never had a situation where Mommy and Daddy were able to
hand the money out.’’

By and large, DeLaney has a positive feeling about the
students most of whom, he thinks, ‘‘make you feel
welcome .. . I find that other students in a class seek me out
to participate in study groups probably because they trust that
I’m keeping up with the assignments. Some even think I am
too serious and wonder whether I live in the library.’’

The fact is, study time for all three is at a premium—and
not because they participate in that popular undergraduate ac-
tivity known as procrastination.

Harrison gets up at 3:30 every morning and drives 60 miles
around the county delivering newspapers. He gets back home
in time to get his seven-year-old son, Nathan, to school. Every
afternoon he picks Nathan up from school, fixes his dinner,
and supervises his homework. ‘‘I can’t even begin to start stu-
dying until late in the evening. I stay up until midnight and

then I have to get up at 3:30 the next morning,’’ says Har-
rison, who held three part-time jobs during the fall term. ‘‘It
has been a struggle for me. I’d like to take somebody around
with me for a week, and let them see what I do.”’

Bowring and DeLaney have similar scheduling complica-
tions which require them to budget their time as carefully as
they must their finances.

‘“You work in a system and are expected to be some place
at a certain time,’’ says Bowring, whose wife, Beverly, works
on the W&L campus as a psychology laboratory assistant.
‘*From all outward appearances, one would say ‘How in the
world can you do all that?’ If you compare it with somebody
else’s life, maybe it seems as though things are quite chaotic.’’

DeLaney’s wife, Pat, is the Lexington City Treasurer. They
are the parents of a seven-year-old. Of all his experiences as a
W&L undergraduate, none has been more difficult for
DeLaney than the adjustment in his family life.

‘‘Pat has made extraordinary rearrangements in our lives
to accomodate my doing this,’’ he says. ‘‘One of the extraor-
dinary things we did was sell our house. The other is that the
demands on my time have required that Pat be both father
and mother to our son, Damien, much of the time.

*‘On a recent weekend, for instance, I spent about 20
minutes with Damien, and I feel very guilty about that
because he’s so important to me.’’

And even though the DeLaneys have adjusted their lives to
make the situation work, there are those times when the ad-
justments must be adjusted. Last spring the Lexington city
schools had a week-long holiday while W&L was in session.
That left the DeLaneys in a bind for child care.

*‘Rather than pay a babysitter, which we could not have
afforded, I brought Damien to school with me,’’ explains
DeLaney. ‘‘He was fine in a sculpture class because he could

 

The Harrisons: Robert and Nathan, 7

play with the clay I was using. But the Brazilian history class
was a different matter. At one point I looked around and he
had disappeared. He had climbed out a window. Fortunately
the room was on the first floor.’’

There have been moments when DeLaney has wanted to

 

Really Students

The Bowrings: Chris, Beverly, and
Colin, 5. (A daughter was born to the
Bowrings in early January.)

climb out the window, too, and scrap the whole idea. So has
Harrison.

‘‘T had taken courses at Dabney Lancaster Community
College and had about a 3.8 average there when I entered
W&L as a junior,’’ says Harrison. ‘‘I knew I wasn’t going to
get anything close to that at W&L. But I got a 0.7. That was
enough of a shock that I thought of quitting right then.

“I’ve wanted to quit many, many times. But I am deter-
mined to get my degree. This is one of my goals.”’

Although the three currently share that same goal, they
have moved toward it from quite different directions.

Bowring is a native New Yorker who moved to Rockbridge
County in 1971. He had attended Vanderbilt for one year but
dropped out. He has published his own newspaper, run a cof-
feehouse in the old Dutch Inn, participated in the erstwhile
Shenandoah Crafts Cooperative, shoed horses, and still owns
and operates his own housepainting business.

He has had numerous one-man art shows in the area,
which were successful but less than lucrative. He did not come
to W&L to study art and hasn’t even taken an art course
(‘‘There’s probably some deep dark secret why,’’ he says).
Oddly enough, it was firefighting that brought him back to
college.

‘*As president of the fire department in Rockbridge Baths,
I had to go to a fire school to learn which end of the hose to
use or, more accurately, to learn the mechanics of putting out
a fire,’’ says Bowring. ‘‘In doing that I began to realize that I
was capable of using my mind and I think that was the
catalyst for my coming back to school.”’

A Lexington native, DeLaney declined a scholarship offer
to Morehouse College in 1961, spent a brief time studying
with Catholic friars in New York state, and came to W&L as
a lab assistant in 1963. In 1979 he began to take courses part-
time, acquiring 38 credits. Two years ago, largely due to his
wife’s prodding, DeLaney finally decided to take the plunge
and enroll as a full-time student.

‘**Although I had always wanted to get my degree, it took
the constant prodding of others—my wife primarily, but also
friends like the late Henry Roberts who was head of the
biology department,’’ says DeLaney, who plans to complete
his degree this summer by taking summer school courses.

Harrison graduated from Parry McCluer High School in
Buena Vista in 1970 and went into the Navy for four years.
After the service he worked the assembly line at the Blue Bird

4

i CIRM i tee UR i eke

 

bus plant in Buena Vista before buying his Pepperidge Farm
franchise. ‘‘I’d wanted to come to W&L and get my degree
earlier but Dean (James) Farrar, who was admissions director
then, suggested I go to a community college and improve my
grades,’’ says Harrison. ‘‘After I built my grades up, I decid-
ed I’d give it a shot. I’ve got to admit that I really admire
what Chris is doing, starting as a freshman the way he did
and looking at four years of this. I don’t know that I could
have done it that way.’’

There is a bit of an irony to the story of these three W&L
undergraduates. Although you might expect that, unlike their
younger counterparts, they would have begun their studies
with a specific postgraduate purpose in mind, none did.

Harrison planned to pursue retail management in the
School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics but has shifted
to an interest in personnel. Bowring wanted to pursue a
business administration degree but now expects to major in
geology. DeLaney is an American history major. None of the
three knows exactly what he will do with the degree.

Says DeLaney: ‘‘I think at 40 years old you should be able
to do something you always wanted to do rather than
something for a purely utilitarian reason.’’

The tendency is to suggest that the experiences of these
three support an argument that education, like youth, is
wasted on the young, that these students are benefiting more
from their experience than the traditional undergraduates.

‘‘The immediate answer is ‘Oh yes, I get much more out
of it now than I would have at 18,’ ’’ says Bowring.
‘““However, there are occasions now when I think that if I had
stayed in college the first time I would have been able to pur-
sue so much more in the world of academics.

‘*It seems to me that if you let a student go at 18 and
want to bring him back when he’s 20 or 22, the number of
students who choose to do what I’ve done will be much
smaller. They will be drawn away by the real world—both by
their fascination with it and by the practical matters of car
loans and house payments.

‘‘In my case I think I can accomplish whatever it is I want
now. But I can also give my children an insight into why they
should be going to college at 18, a reason that may not occur
to someone at that age. There is only so much time to do all
the things you want to do in your life. Time is important. It
may never occur to somebody at 18 or 19, but you realize that
more when you get older.”’

by Robert Fure

A Scientific Surfer

Riding the Ideas, Physicist Tom Williams Is ‘A Consummate Interdisciplinarian’

    
  

Several of H. Thomas Williams’

  

 

This is the language of high energy
physics, a realm accessible perhaps only
to those who have the specialized in-
struments and argot to perceive it. Its
vocabulary is not to be found in the
palaver of polite conversation.

Now, no one enjoys a little palaver
now and then more than Tom Williams.
It gets him around. But back home in
physics, Williams the scientist is also
Williams the teacher, one committed pro-
fessionally to the principle that
knowledge ought to be explicable. And
when it comes to communicating physics
to the man on the street, Williams can
speak anyone’s language.

When he discusses his discipline,

. Dee : es ; Williams ruminates first on what his au-

acy !)!lCU ~ s : : dience needs to know. He looks for an

ieee y — image, lowering his eyebrows until a

typically clever analogy—he has a
remarkable facility—rolls them up sud-
denly like window shades. He is explain-
ing the first principle of quantum
mechanics:

**All matter in the universe consists
simultaneously of particles and waves.
This duality is at the bottom of all
things. Take light, for instance. It con-
sists of photons traveling through space
in waves.’’ Williams explains a simple ex-
periment that demonstrates the principle.
**Take a razorblade and make two
parallel cuts in a sheet of construction
paper. Cover one cut, shine a light on
the paper, and on the screen behind it
you’ll notice a thin slice of bright light.
Do the same with the other cut and
you'll get the same result.

, J | ‘Now uncover both cuts and the pro-
—— | ze tn jected light behind the paper shows up on
; ™ J r the screen in alternating bands of bright,
moderate, and dim light. As the photons
passing through the cuts coalesce from
their separate routes, they alternately ac-

5

S publications have such splendidly esoteric
ve titles that one suspects Williams of hav-
ies ing moved beyond a certain availability
a to the common man: ‘‘Quadrupole

re Movement of the Deuteron: Effect of
Ae Baryon Resonances’’ (1975), ‘‘Inelastic
= Electron Scattering in the Continuum”’
'* (1981-82), ‘‘Quantum Solutions for a
ome Symmetric Double Square Well’’ (1982).

    

a

 
 

  

 

    

wlll

Photo by Sally Mani

Scientific Surfer

centuate the crests and troughs of each
other’s reformed waves. The bands of
moderate light result from the fact that
the waves also cancel out the peaks in
each other’s waves, an effect known as
‘interference.’ ”’

The eyebrows rise: ‘‘The two cuts
make all the difference. It’s like Robert
Frost’s poem ‘The Road Not Taken.’ The
fact that light has two different roads to
take momentarily scrambles each photon.
Once it makes its choice of which way to
go, it’s never the same again. The photon
gets its (wave)act together again after the
fork, like Frost resuming his happy stroll,
but it’s had a new beginning. And, if it
happens to meet its former self, the
evidence shows us that the road traveled
by has ‘made all the difference.’ ”’

x * *

Williams himself is the sum of dif-
ferences from a few forks in his own
road. His interest in physics began when,
as a boy growing up in Newport News,
Va., he received from his mother, a
grammar school teacher, a book on
nuclear fission. That Christmas present,
along with an entertaining physics teacher
in high school, set his course. He became
a nuclear physicist, earning his Ph.D. in
physics from the University of Virginia in
1967.

Thereafter, a National Science Foun-
dation postdoctoral research fellowship
took him to the National Bureau of Stan-
dards. Following a period of research, he
spent three semesters as a guest professor
at the Universitaet Erlangen-Nuernberg,
Erlangen, West Germany, and then as
temporary assistant professor of physics
at VMI. In 1971, Williams took a post as
staff scientist at Kaman Sciences in Col-
orado Springs. Following the death of his
wife, he returned to Lexington with his
two children to accept a new position at
W&L in January 1974.

‘‘From the beginning of my career, I
thought I’d enjoy teaching, the freedom
to pursue independent research, and the
stimulation of working with students. So
when Ed Turner (then head of the
physics department) called to offer me
the job at W&L, I grabbed it. It also
gave me an opportunity to return to
Virginia at a time when I needed to.”’

6

From the beginning, Williams’ tenure
at W&L has been tireless. His long list of
publications is matched by his numerous
University committee assignments and
service to the Lexington community. His
work in the classroom covers an extra-
ordinarily broad range of subjects. In-
deed, physics itself takes him—dizzily,
one might suspect—from the smallest to
the largest natural phenomena, inner
space to outer, neutrinos to Betelgeuse,
atomic structure to the structure of the
universe.

An inveterate reader, Williams taught
himself astronomy. ‘‘Of course, there’s a
correlation between nuclear physics and
astrophysics. Ultimately we’re dealing
with the same forces—and the same
billiard balls, only in astronomy the table
is a little larger. Actually, I can think of
no happier teaching assignment than to
take a group of students up to the obser-
vatory and just let them go at the planets
and stars.’’

But Williams is no mere observer. A
natural philosopher in the high, old way
of knowing, he is preoccupied with the
ideas underlying science and their relation
to the human condition. ‘‘I see myself as
having a very poor memory for facts. I
like ideas, and when I find a new idea
derived from an established principle,
well. ...’’ The eyebrows roll up again.

In this way, Williams participates in
thought. He is a sort of scientific surfer,
riding ideas deftly amidst the turbulence
of modern science and society. His skill
as a teacher and thinker has made him a
consummate interdisciplinarian, team-
teaching courses with humanities faculty
in both the regular academic curriculum
and summer programs. In the latter, he
has consistently earned high praise as a
lecturer in W&L’s Institute for Ex-
ecutives, a program in professional ethics
for businessmen.

**It’s the ideas,’’ Williams muses. ‘‘I
like to see where they take us. The facts
are not the important things—insofar as
they’re inert. In my courses I give a lot
of open book tests, though that can be
cruel to memorizers. In the introductory
physics course, I allow students to bring
in all they can write on a 3x5 card, which
forces them to think both during and

 

 

before the tests—that is, they have to en-
counter the material well enough
beforehand to reduce it to essential
principles.”’

xk «*& *

That’s Williams, drawing his
students—or dragging them—one way or
another into a consideration of what
matters.

During the summer of 1981, Williams
was a delegate to a Lilly Foundation con-
ference on university honors programs.
W&L had no honors program at the
time. Concerned about the quality of stu-
dent intellectual life on campus, Williams
volunteered to investigate successful ad-
vanced curricula elsewhere.

The research led eventually to a pro-
posal for a University Scholars program,
approved by the faculty during the fall of
1983. Simultaneously, the faculty created

aia ii i a ae MO

 

 

something of a capstone seminar for all
seniors, a course that will bring the
University’s advocacy of a liberal educa-
tion to a final focus. But what to do with
freshmen and sophomores? Fortunately,
pragmatic minds prevailed, among them
Williams’.

‘‘There has always been a distinction
between those students who are capable
and those who are excited. I became con-
cerned that we might be losing some of
the latter, the real scholars, when they
found out that the most dominant out-
side activities at W&L were purely social.
I felt that we needed to get them early
and help them create a life outside the
classroom in which they could thrive in-
tellectually. We wanted to help them get
to know each other.’’

And so the University Scholars pro-
gram was born. Its brochure opens with

 

the following carefully worded
description:

Washington and Lee invites its best
prepared and most able students to par-
ticipate in a challenging and highly indepen-
dent course of studies in pursuit of the
Bachelor’s degree. University Scholars
combine broad yet intensive studies in the
liberal arts with independent study leading
to an honors thesis.

The selective admissions policies of
Washington and Lee University traditional-
ly produce an able and motivated student
body. Within it lies a much smaller group
whose greater drive, maturity, and ability
help them benefit from a special program
that offers additional challenge and requires
additional effort. The University Scholars
program builds on the personal attention
made possible by W&L’s emphasis on
teaching and low student-faculty ratio. It
includes students of varied backgrounds
and it lets them share ideas among
themselves, with faculty, and with
distinguished visitors to the campus.

This year, the inaugural year of the pro-
gram, W&L has designated 10 freshmen
University Scholars. Williams, the direc-
tor of the program, expects that, as it
grows to 60 students over the next four
years, the program will achieve ‘‘critical
mass.’’ Ever the physicist, he explains,
*‘critical mass being the minimum
amount of radioactive material which
when brought together can support a sus-
tained nuclear reaction.’’ The metaphor
pleases him.

Foment is the key. ‘‘The program will
succeed merely if we get those students
who are excited by ideas, regardless of
their chosen discipline, to interact with
each other. If they come to interact with
faculty and guest lecturers, that’s a
bonus. Mainly we want to help them
form an exemplary community of active
thinkers.”’

Williams himself is a community man,
and a thinker, even when he’s not work-
ing. He enjoys a broad association of
colleagues, which he attends and enter-
tains quietly with his own brand of
diminutive irony. His curiosity is expan-
sive, but it is a professional, scholarly
sort of hankering. He still reads books
from—and for—his mother. ‘‘She’s an
incessant reader. We always trade paper-
backs whenever we get together.’’ He
allows that he does not really like Rus-
sian novels—too much information.

At home, he and his wife, Lynn,
whom he married in 1975, share five
children, two of them now in college. He
confesses to being at best an irregular
gardener, and that he is about as good a
tennis player as he is a carpenter—that
being another correlation. He helps out
with the local youth aquatics club and of-
ficiates in the junior soccer league, ‘‘as a
way to watch the kids grow up.’’ And he
has a more than academic interest in bak-
ing bread.

Williams reflects for a moment on his
own academic past. ‘‘As an under-
graduate I probably would not have
qualified for the University Scholars pro-
gram. I was all physics.’’ The modesty is
characteristic. But somewhere between
atomic and intergalactic space, Williams
became an educator.

 

Taking the Pulse of America’s Voters

Lance Tarrance, ’63, Was One of the Biggest Winners on Election Day ’84
by Jeffery G. Hanna

When the television networks began proclaiming the big
winners on election night last November, the name V. Lance
Tarrance was never mentioned.

It should have been. Tarrance was one of the biggest win-
ners of all.

Although he was not a candidate for office, Tarrance won
not one, not two, but four statewide races last fall. He also
lost two. But, according to a scorecard kept by The National
Journal, that won/lost ratio of 4-2 represented the best record
in the business—the political polling business, that is.

Every night in the months and weeks leading up to
November 6, 100 telephone interviewers at the Houston head-
quarters of Tarrance & Associates were dialing away to test
the political waters for such Republican candidates as Senate
contenders Mitch McConnell in Kentucky and Phil Gramm in
Texas and Gubernatorial hopeful James G. Martin in North
Carolina.

The data collected in those nightly ‘‘tracking’’ surveys were
fed into a computer, which spewed forth print-outs bearing
the latest voter trends.

Was Gramm slipping a bit in Texas? Was McConnell gain-
ing in Kentucky? Was Martin’s steady pounding away on the
education issue hitting home with North Carolina voters?
What issues mattered most to the electorate?

The responses changed daily. So did the figures. And so
did Tarrance’s interpretations and the advice he gave his
clients.

8

Ultimately, those three candidates won (McConnell and
Martin in upsets), at least in part, because Lance Tarrance,
°63, provided them with an accurate sense of what the elec-
torate was thinking.

And that is no easy accomplishment.

‘‘The most complex psychological decision you can make is
how you vote,’”’ argues Tarrance (his name rhymes with
Lawrence). ‘‘Thousands of dynamics go into that decision:
family history, religion, region of the country, race, situation.
There are many things that go into that matrix.

‘‘After you have studied all this, you come down to one
conclusion: voting is an emotional act. Even though we try to
quantify it every day in our business, it is still an emotional
act.”’

x *& *

Lance Tarrance’s fascination with figures and statistics
began long before he enrolled at Washington and Lee in the
fall of 1959, transferring from Southern Methodist University.

As a junior high school student growing up in the
Highland Park section of Dallas, he haunted the press boxes
at Southern Methodist University athletic events.

His initial assignment was to serve soft drinks to the sports
writers. Eventually he was elevated to the statistics crew for
SMU basketball games. At 15 he was given the crucial task of
counting field goal attempts for SMU and its opponents.

Tarrance is still fascinated by figures. And he routinely
describes his philosophy of politics—including his role in the

i ie wil i ee

 

now. — 7 - - - a
“Tenor 15)
have been an

 

 

A New Force in —

 

> ary
- - ee

 

 

 

 

-

—i.e., what the

“I am to monitor

 

 

 

 

“Every da

out key

words

y
like me

ina

 

 

 

 

 

.

Be

 

 

 

the University

e

Ss

ae

 

 

  

University put $1 of its tr

by the g

ae
.

   

nt. The t

.
.
*.
,

are ‘true’

oe
. - 7
:
. - .
.
>
.
> :
- -
;

“Board- _

 

 

 

 

« - : 4 : : - a 7
i 7 - oe : on - - - - - . - - -
: , - Oo - 7 7 ; a : a ; : ; :
- - - - - 7 - a - a -

eo 7 7 7 - -

 

     

- - -
- : - .
- - - - -
- -
. .
- - -
. - - -

        
  
 
     

12.6

 

| / : / 2,629.2
| | a | 333.6
: : . | : / : ‘ / 196.3

 

ne

 

 

 
   
   

   

 

  

 

 

 

      
   
 

     

   

    

 

 

 

     

 

     

 

 

 

B17 .
408.
© 35,257.0 |
ucting $95.4 thousand _ OT
- vance for doubtful 1,347.0"
BS = _ *Granted to the University to be lo
i ee oe University will have to

 

              

eh MATE MAE A ys

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
     
     
   
   
 
 
   

| Total

 

98127 9,812.7

533.8 533.8
oI 2ST

105.4 |

 

64.6 °°
(2.5)
1,512.7
755.9
626.7.
63.3
3,314.5  — 19,004.8

 

 

 

 

 

012.7 OS 50121
3705 0s

 

 

   

 

 

 

   

15.6 1,554.9
2,307.7 14.0 = 2,321.7
AIS. 9 GIS.
120.2. 1,791.7 1,911.9
264. 8 — 8 265.6
- . 6.2 — 6.2
15 41 a 2,962.8 -18,376.7
ft

 

 

Restricted Total
351.7 998.6

(285.0)
(70.8)

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“>

AR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 os
ef

a

 

~

 

Wy.

ee Gazette

 

Early decision admissions
reach all-time high

 

Washington and Lee received and ac-
cepted more ‘‘early decision’’ applicants
for admission this year than in the
University’s history.

According to figures compiled by the
Office of Admissions, 209 high school
seniors applied to W&L under the early
decision plan with 108 of those accepted
as members of the Class of 1989.

Early decision applications come from
students for whom Washington and Lee
is their first choice of colleges. The ap-
plications must be filed by December 1
each year. Early decision applicants are
notified of the admissions decision on
December 14.

The 209 applications this year is more
than a 100 percent increase over a year
ago when 90 students applied for early
decision with 54 of those accepted. The
highest previous total of early decision
applications was 112 in 1982.

Of the 108 students accepted under
early decision, 70 are men and 38 are
women. They come from 25 different
states. Ten are children of alumni—six
men and four women.

‘‘This group of early decision students
shows a significant increase in quality
from a year ago, both in terms of
academic achievements and extracur-
ricular involvement,’’ noted W&L Admis-
sions Director William Hartog.

In terms of total applications, the
University had received 986 (724 men,
262 women) as of January 2 compared
with 557 on the same date last year.

In addition, admissions officials con-
ducted 1,089 on-campus interviews of
prospective students between June 1 and
December 1 this year, representing an in-
crease of 95 percent over the same period
in 1983.

 

Stan Kamen honored

 

Stan Kamen, ’49, was the recipient of
the First Annual Israel Prime Minister’s

Applications for Early Admissions Set Record

 

Kamen

Award from the Entertainment Division
of The United Jewish Fund.

Kamen, who heads the motion picture
department of the William Morris Agen-
cy, was honored at what the Los Angeles
Times called a ‘‘star-studded
tribute . . . the kind of deal only Stan
Kamen could put together.”’

Sen. Edward Kennedy delivered the
keynote address at the event, which rais-
ed more than $2 million for The United
Jewish Fund.

In his remarks, Kennedy said:
".-.« The story of Stan Kamen is a
powerful witness to the truth that one in-
dividual can make a difference. Most of
all, we honor him because he understands
that the miracle of America is inex-
tricably bound up for all time with the
miracle of Israel.’’

President Ronald Reagan sent a letter
to Kamen on the occasion and said that
Kamen had ‘‘demonstrated over and over
that the heart of someone who cares for
others can only be measured by the depth
and breadth of his giving nature.”’

He received congratulatory telegrams
from Prime Minister Shimon Peres and
Barbra Streisand among many others.

The guest list was a Hollywood
who’s-who: Frank Sinatra, Warren Beat-

‘6

 

ty, Gregory Peck, Jack Lemmon, Grant
Tinker, Jack Valenti, James Caan, and
on and on. Kamen represents many of

the biggest names in Hollywood.

The award was presented by Mayor
Schlomo Lahat of Tel Aviv and will be
awarded annually to ‘‘a member of the
entertainment industry for dedication to
humanitarian and Jewish causes in Los
Angeles, Israel and around the world.”’

 

W&L junior receives
Sears Congressional Internship

 

Kenneth N. Jacoby, a Washington
and Lee junior from South Bend, Ind., is
one of 20 college students selected to par-
ticipate in the 1985 Sears Congressional
Internship Program for Journalism
Students.

Jacoby is the third W&L student to
be awarded the internship in the past five
years.

Inaugurated in 1970, the Sears pro-
gram is designed specifically to provide
undergraduates majoring in journalism
with firsthand experience in the legislative
process.

Jacoby will spend the 12-week winter
semester in Washington where he will
serve as a full-time staff member in the
office of either a U.S. senator or a U.S.
representative. Jacoby has not yet been
assigned to an office.

Though interns most often work in
press-related activities, the actual assign-
ment of duties is left entirely to the of-
fice to which the intern is assigned.

At W&L, Jacoby has been the sports
director of WLUR-FM, the campus radio
station, and has worked as the play-by-
play broadcaster for Washington and Lee
football, basketball, and lacrosse
broadcasts.

Jacoby is a member of Sigma Delta
Chi/The Society of Professional Jour-
nalists and was elected to Phi Eta Sigma,
the national honor society for freshmen.

In addition to Jacoby, W&L’s par-
ticipants in the Sears Congressional In-
ternship Program have been Darren
Trigonoplos, ’82, and Darryl Woodson,
83.

l7

eh Gazette

 

Purlie Victorious performed
by University Theatre

 

Washington and Lee senior Terry
McWhorter of Cleveland, Ohio, directed
the University Theatre’s production of
Ossie Davis’ Purlie Victorious in
December.

McWhorter considered the play
history in the making since it represented
the first black play produced at W&L
with a black director.

“It was a long process but a rewar-
ding one,’’ said McWhorter. ‘‘I have
been recruiting cast members since last
April. I thought it was important to get
as many black students as possible in-
volved in the production, both in the cast
and in the various other phases. That is
why I consider the production an ex-
tremely important one.’’

Although the play, which takes place
on a plantation in southern Georgia in
the mid-1950s, is a comedy, it concerns
the serious subject of race relations. Ex-
plained McWhorter: ‘‘The play wants to
say that segregation is illegal, immoral,
and ridiculous.’’

Taking the leading role of Purlie Vic-
torious Judson was sophomore Mike
Webb of Jersey City, N.J. Playing op-
posite him as Lutiebelle Gusiemae
Jenkins was Sweet Briar College student
Kelly Reed.

Other cast members included W&L
senior Todd Jones of Muncie, Ind., as
Ol’ Cap’n Cotchipee, Sweet Briar student
Valerie Brandon as Missy Judson and
W&L senior Bryan Johnson of Jersey Ci-
ty, N.J., as Gitlow Judson.

Senior Eroll Skyers of Bridgeport,
Conn., was the stage manager. Senior
Paul Casey of Beaverton, Ore., was the
lighting director while senior Steve Carey
of Bellmore, N.Y., was in charge of
sound. Senior David Sprunt of Lexington
designed the set.

In a review of the play on WVPT-
FM, the public radio station in Roanoke,
Purlie Victorious received high marks,
particularly for the direction of
McWhorter and the performances of
Webb and Brandon in lead roles.

 

Registrar to retire

 

Lt. Col. Harold S. Head, who has
served as registrar at Washington and Lee
since 1966, has announced his plans to

18

 

 

a al

The cast of Purlie Victorious (from left) Todd Jones, Bryan Johnson, John Maass, Valerie Bran-

don, Kelly Reed, T. J. Ziegler, Michael Black, and Mike Webb. Senior Terry McWhorter

directed the play.

retire from that position, effective August
St.

The search for Head’s successor will
begin immediately under the direction of
John D. Elrod, dean of the College.

*‘Col. Head has ably and devotedly
served Washington and Lee for 19
years,’’ said Elrod. ‘‘His gentlemanly
manner in the daily performance of his
duties will be greatly missed.

‘“*We must now turn to the very dif-
ficult task of finding the right person to
assume this important responsibility in
the Washington and Lee family.’’

A graduate of the United States
Military Academy, Head’s active military

 

 

Head

 

career began in 1943 following comple-
tion of the B.S. program at West Point.
He saw combat service both in World
War II and in Korea. He is a graduate of
the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Ga.,
where he also was an instructor and assis-
tant director of instruction, and he is a
graduate of the Command and General
Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
He was an instructor in social sciences at
West Point from 1947 to 1949.

Head holds a master’s degree in
history from Harvard University. He is a
graduate of the Army Language School,
where he studied Japanese in preparation
for duty as staff officer to the Military
Assistance Advisory Group in Japan
from 1959 to 1962.

In 1962 he joined the military staff at
Virginia Military Institute. While at VMI,
he was responsible for course planning,
administration, instruction, and counsel-
ing for cadets participating in the Army
ROTC program.

Head is past president of the Virginia
Association of Collegiate Registrars and
Admissions Officers. He has been a com-
mittee member of the American Associa-
tion of Registrars and Admissions Of-
ficers and a member of the executive
committee of the Southern Association of
Collegiate Registrars.

He and his wife, Helen, are the
parents of three children, including two
sons who graduated from Washington
and Lee: Harold D. Head, ’66, and
Ronald B. Head, ’69.

 

 

 

Pemberton publishes volume
on Plato’s Parmenides

 

Harrison J. Pemberton, professor of
philosophy at Washington and Lee, is the
author of a new book that examines one
of Plato’s later dialogues, Parmenides.

Published by Norwood Editions of
Darby, Pa., the book is entitled Plato’s
Parmenides: The Critical Moment for
Socrates.

In the book, Pemberton claims that
Parmenides, contrary to its reputation as
one of the driest and most tedious of
Plato’s dialogues, is the most dramatic.

According to Pemberton, Plato’s
other dialogues portray Socrates as
“‘rock-steady, the pivotal personality
about whom we see dramatic turns in
others.’’ But in Parmenides, Socrates is
still young and changeable and, argues
Pemberton, ‘‘decisively changed.”’

Pemberton conducted his study for
the book over several summers spent in
Greece. The study was supported by a
grant from the Ford Motor Company
and by grants made under Washington
and Lee’s John M. Glenn Fund,
established at the University by an alum-
nus in 1953.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1962, Pemberton received his bachelor’s

degree from Rollins College and his M.A.

and Ph.D. degrees from Yale.

He was an instructor at Yale and was
assistant professor of philosophy at the
University of Virginia prior to joining the
W&L faculty.

At W&L, Pemberton teaches courses
in the history of philosophy, Plato, and
existentialism.

During the course of his research for
his new book, Pemberton was assisted by
several W&L undergraduates under the
University’s Robert E. Lee Scholars
program.

 

National organization
honors W&L professor

 

Robert E. Akins, associate professor
of engineering at Washington and Lee,
has been honored by the American Wind
Energy Association.

At the organization’s awards banquet
in Pasadena, Calif., last fall, Akins was
recognized ‘‘for academic contributions
to the field of wind energy.’’

teas
%
7
fe
te
E BE oe
A pee Ah
Tigo types,
RE pipe iy
ai DE

Pemberton

In making the presentation, the
American Wind Energy Association noted
that Akins ‘‘has distinguished himself as
a researcher and theorist who consistently
generates practical and applicable results,
a major achievement in any technical
field. His development of effective
Rayleigh approximations, method of
bins, and averaging techniques underlies
the way most of the world now
characterizes wind turbine performance.’’

Akins joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in January of 1984 after spending
three years as a member of the technical
staff of the wind energy research division
of Sandia National Laboratories in Albu-
querque, N.M.

He is currently engaged in continuing
research evaluating large arrays of wind
turbines and in developing testing
techniques.

Akins received his bachelor’s and
master’s degrees from Northwestern
University and his Ph.D. in fluid
mechanics and wind engineering from
Colorado State University.

He is a member of the American
Society of Civil Engineers’ aerodynamics
committee and serves on subcommittees
for wind power and architectural
aerodynamics.

 

 

Debaters try new format

 

The Washington and Lee Debate
Team has begun experimenting with a

new form of intercollegiate debating in
which the toughest opposition often
comes from the audience.

During the fall, W&L debaters toured
four campuses where they engaged in
audience-style debating on topics ranging
from the reelection of President Reagan
to coeducation.

According to Halford Ryan, professor
of public speaking and coach of the
debate team, audience-style debating re-
quires substantially different skills of the
debaters.

‘“The format begins with each speaker
presenting an eight-minute constructive
speech during which members of the au-
dience may interrupt for questions,’’ ex-
plained Ryan. ‘‘After the constructive
speeches, the floor is then opened to
speeches, questions, or comments by
members of the audience. Debaters from
either team may respond to the audience,
and then each team has a four-minute
rebuttal.”’

Ryan stressed that the debaters were
learning to adapt skills to the audience-
style debate which requires a different
style of delivery, more humor in the
presentation, and an ability to think
quickly in order to respond to questions
from the audience.

W&L freshmen John Starks and
Michael Herrin, both of Valdosta, Ga.,
participated in one of the audience-style
debates when they took the affirmative
side of the question ‘‘Resolved: America
deserves Ronald Reagan’’ before an au-
dience of about 60 students at Davidson
College in mid-October.

Junior Chris Lion of O’Fallon, Ill.,
and sophomore Rick Graves of Gulfport,
Miss., went on an extended debating tour
in the Midwest. At the University of II-
linois, Lion and Graves debated the ques-
tion of Reagan’s presidency before an au-
dience of 650 Illinois students. They
debated that same topic at DePauw
University in Greencastle, Ind.

In the middle of their tour, Lion and
Graves took the negative side of the topic
““Resolved: Co-ed means No-ed’’ at
Wabash College in Indiana. About 50
Wabash students were in attendance to
join in the audience-style debating. The
debate was all the more interesting since
Wabash is one of the few remaining all-
male colleges while Washington and Lee
will become coeducational at the under-
graduate level next fall.

19

de Gazette

 

WAL receives gift
from Dr. Lyons, ’22

 

Washington and Lee has received a
$30,000 gift from Dr. Harry Lyons, ’22,
dean emeritus of the Medical College of
Virginia School of Dentistry.

Lyons made the gift to W&L through
the University’s Pooled Income Fund.
The gift will be added to the endowment
Lyons had previously created in honor of
his parents, Max Jacob and Jennie
Natkins Lyons.

A native of Lexington who now lives
in Richmond, Lyons is past president of
both the American Association of Dental
Schools and the American College of
Dentists. The dentistry building at the
Medical College of Virginia is named in
Lyons’ honor.

Washington and Lee bestowed the
honorary doctor of science degree on
Lyons in 1979.

Washington and Lee’s Pooled Income
Fund is now in excess of 1.5 million
dollars. It offers lifetime income from
gifts that also qualify for immediate in-
come tax deductions.

Schultz

 

Lawyer-in-residence named

 

Franklin M. Schultz, a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Reavis &
McGrath, has been named the lawyer-in-
residence in the Frances Lewis Law
Center of the Washington and Lee
School of Law for 1984-85.

Schultz will be conducting research on

 

the implications, for legal ethics, of the
1978 Ethics in Government Act. He will
be assisted in that research by second-
year W&L law student Michael Com-
pagni, an intern in the Lewis Law
Center.

The Lewis Law Center was established
at W&L to focus on developing
knowledge ‘‘at the frontiers of the law’’
and, among other activities, brings
distinguished visiting scholars, judges,
and practitioners to the campus.

Schultz received his bachelor’s degree
and his law degree from Yale. Formerly a
member of the faculty of the Indiana
University School of Law, he was
associated with the Washington law firm
of Purcell & Nelson for 27 years before
joining Reavis & McGrath in 1980.

He has served as a lecturer at George
Washington School of Law and was a
visiting professor at the University of
Virginia law school. He was for five
years a member of the legal ethics com-
mittee of the District of Columbia Bar
Association.

He was at the W&L law school
throughout November and will return for
another month of research in the spring.

 

 

Big Brothers

 

Continue

 

To Provide

 

Mutual

 

Benefits

 

 

One Saturday this fall about 30
Washington and Lee University students
and the cook from a W&L fraternity
spent the afternoon tossing footballs and
frisbees and fixing hamburgers.

To the casual observer, it might have
appeared to be a typical group of
undergraduates on a typical Saturday
afternoon. What set this gathering apart,
however, was the presence of 30
youngsters who were laughing and smil-
ing and playing alongside the students.

The picnic was part of the Universi-
ty’s Big Brother/Little Brother program,
sponsored by W&L’s University Federa-
tion. The approximately 75 members of
the federation, a volunteer service
organization, also tutor in local schools,
work with Cub Scout troops, and spon-
sor the annual W&L Christmas
candlelight service—to name just a few
of their projects.

The Big Brother program seeks to
provide support for needy children, ex-
plains Glen Jackson, a senior from Atlan-
ta, Ga., who coordinates the project.

Most of the little brothers, who
typically range in age from eight to 14,
come from single-parent households. ‘‘To

lose your father at the age of seven can
be devastating,’’ says Jackson.

Guidance counselors at the high
school and middle school level identify
students who might benefit from having
big brothers. In addition, some parents
and guardians who are already aware of
the program call W&L to request a big
brother for their child.

In matching the big and little brothers,
Jackson aims for compatibility. For in-
stance, he tries to identify similar in-
terests, such as athletics, or he pairs a shy
child with an outgoing student.

Once he has matched students with
their little brothers, Jackson leaves them
pretty much on their own.

““To be effective, it has to be on their
Own initiative,’’ explains Jackson.

Apparently the students take their
responsibilities seriously and in most cases
the brothers spend four to six hours a
week together. Says Jackson: ‘‘The kids
are almost their dates on the weekends.”’

Michael Cappeto, associate dean of
students at W&L and faculty adviser to
the University Federation, says that
students often form close and lasting rela-
tionships with their little brothers and that

 

 

 

 

Law librarian examines
libraries’ future

 

Despite the rapid development of new
technology for gathering and storing in-
formation, the traditional library is not
about to become ‘‘a museum staffed by
curators,’’ according to Sarah K. Wiant,
law librarian and associate professor of
law at Washington and Lee.

Wiant’s observations on the future of
libraries came during a recent speech to
the Mid-America Chapter of the
American Association of Law Libraries
at the University of Illinois.

There is, noted Wiant, a fundamental
shift in the traditional information ac-
tivities associated with libraries—the ac-
quisition, preservation, and dissemination
of information.

**There will be less acquiring and
preserving and more disseminating infor-
mation as we become more dependent on
information stored in a data base,’’ said
Wiant. ‘‘Locally held collections may
become less important and maybe even
disappear.”’

Yet, that does not mean libraries and

librarians face obsolescence, Wiant
argued.

‘‘Librarians must move away from
gathering vast amounts of materials to
focusing on designing systems with access
to information from various data bases,”’
said Wiant. ‘‘Librarians may become
even more closely aligned with users.’’

What will happen to such traditional
library jobs as acquisitions?

*‘Some of these are already being per-
formed by a machine and more will
become automated,’’ said Wiant. ‘‘We
cease to perform as production workers.
The verification, selection of vendors,
and searches through files is done more
frequently by support staff.

**Clearly the movement is from task-
oriented jobs to more intellectual ac-
tivities, such as collection management.”’

Society still needs traditional printed
information, added Wiant, and ‘‘it is
unlikely that increased technology will
make obsolete methods of handling infor-
mation; it is merely additional.

‘‘Combined sources of print and elec-
tronic information, the low cost of com-
munication, and the ability to bypass the
library as a gatekeeper for service and to

deal directly with the vendor creates a
new set of problems for users. . . .Infor-
mation users can become information
losers because they are overwhelmed by
rapidly changing events.”’

The information specialist of the
future will be a ‘‘data ad-
ministrator . . . whose skills will assist in
determining what customer information
needs are, making optimum use of data
dictionaries/directors, and in providing
adequate knowledge of data processing.’’

Added Wiant: ‘‘We information
specialists may help users through a maze
of information to determine what they
need, what form it takes, and how much
they are willing to pay. Not only will we
be pathfinders, but we must also meet
the challenge of being teachers. It is im-
portant to recognize that teaching one to
find knowledge is as important as
teaching knowledge itself.’’

Wiant has been a law librarian at
W&L since 1972 and was named head
law librarian in 1978. In addition to her
presentation at the University of Illinois,
she recently was a participant in a con-
ference on ‘‘Futures in International Law
Collections’’ held at Duke University.

 

at tH

 

   

brother

 

W&L sophomore John Riordan and his little

some keep in touch long after the student
has graduated.

“The students take a strong personal
interest in their little brothers,’’ says Cap-
peto, who remembers one W&L alumnus
who made a special trip to Lexington to
see his little brother graduate from high
school.

Students become involved in the pro-
gram, says Cappeto, because they see a
real need. ‘‘We say to the freshmen every
year, ‘You’re going to take an awful lot
out of Lexington four years from now.
A program such as Big Brothers is your
one opportunity to give something back

‘to the community.’ ”

Scott Tilley, a senior from Richmond
who serves as co-chairman of the federa-
tion, agrees. ‘‘The community does so
much for us,”’ he says. ‘‘This is a way to
give something back.”’

While the big brothers are providing
a valuable community service, they are
also benefitting from participation in the
program.

*‘The little brother gains a lot of
guidance and companionship, but the
program is a two-way street,’’ says Cap-
peto. “‘The students learn a good deal

from their little brothers. There is con-
siderable personal growth for the W&L
student.’’

Indeed, students who participate in
the Big Brother program see it as an ex-
tension of their educational experience.
‘*The students see a side of life they don’t
often see,’’ explains Jackson. ‘‘They
don’t realize the poverty in this county.
It opens their eyes.’’

With the first class of women
undergraduates due to arrive at W&L in
the fall of 1985, a Big Sister project will
probably be added to the program.
*“Women students will be able to fit in im-
mediately,’’ explains Jackson.

Cappeto takes particular pride in the
Big Brother program because he feels it
may counteract some of the negative at-
titudes that can exist between communi-
ty residents and college students.

“‘These are the same students who
play their stereos too late and double
park,’’ he says.

Jackson agrees. The big brothers, he
says, ‘‘are aware that some in the com-
munity are not all that fond of students.
But this helps show there is another
side—the side of generosity and giving.”’

 

pA

&& Gazette

 

 

Daredevils!

Two Washington and Lee University
sophomores are taking a trip back into
time—in more ways than one—by pro-
ducing a 13-part radio serial on WLUR-
FM, the W&L campus radio station.

Daredevils is scheduled to make its
debut with a one-hour segment in late
January or early February and will be
followed by 12 weekly segments, two of
which will be one hour long with the
others 30 minutes long.

The original script was written by Eric
Knight of Los Alamitos, Calif., who is
working with Michael Wacht of Social
Circle, Ga., on the production.

Not only does the very concept of a
radio drama take the two college students
back in time, but Daredevils is set in the
1930s.

Ironically but understandably, Knight
and Wacht hit upon their idea for a radio
drama while watching television.

**I was taking a journalism course in
radio broadcast and had toyed with the
idea of doing a radio play,’’ says Wacht.
*“One night Eric and I were watching Air-
wolf on TV and I mentioned my idea to
him. He was interested. And here we
are.

When they embarked on their project,
the two students had heard only one radio
drama—National Public Radio’s produc-
tion of Star Wars.

**But I had read some old scripts that
my mother happened to have,’’ said
Knight. ‘‘And once we decided to take
this project on, I got some tapes of old
Shadow episodes.’’

Initially, Knight had written to several
California studios seeking the rights to an
old Shadow or Green Hornet series to
produce at WLUR.

 

 

 

 

Daredevils’ creators Michael Wacht (right) and Eric Knight

‘*T kept getting a runaround from the
studios, so I decided to write my own
script,’’ says Knight.

Daredevils is an adventure about an
American archaeologist who has settled
down in England to write a book and is
called upon to find a stolen sapphire.

“*The script is a mismash of
material—Dashiel Hammett, Alfred Hit-
chcock, Raiders of the Lost Ark, things
like that,’’ says Knight. ‘‘It has 27 dif-
ferent characters in it. Of course, the ad-
vantage of doing a radio drama is that
one actor or actress can play four or five
roles.

“*Perhaps the most difficult part of
writing the script was avoiding the very
elementary dialogue that you found in the
old radio programs in which the lines
often insulted your intelligence. But at the
same time I had to make certain that the
dialogue left no doubt about what is hap-
pening in the story line.’’

Knight and Wacht held open rehear-
sals on the W&L campus and then went
to Randolph-Macon Woman’s College to
hold auditions for the female roles.

‘We have had a lot of interest from
prospective actors and actresses even after
the rehearsals,’’ says Wacht. ‘‘Until we
held the rehearsals, we had never heard
the script read aloud. That was an exciting
experience. 7

The cast will be finalized by the first
of the year with rehearsals to follow dur-
ing January, says Wacht.

““We also want it to be as much like
one of the radio serials as we can,’’ says
Wacht. ‘‘For instance, each episode ends
with a real cliffhanger. When we were
holding rehearsals, the prospective actors
and actresses all wanted to know what
was going to happen next. That is a good
sign. Hopefully, our audience will want
to know the same thing.”’

 

  

 

 

ae

 

 

Happy birthday, George!

 

Washington and Lee’s oldest living
alumnus, George Sloan Arnold, will
celebrate another birthday on April 9. It
won’t be just another birthday, actually;
it will be Arnold’s 100th. Happy birth-
day, George!

Arnold, ’28L, explains with
understandable pride that his father, a
farmer who lived to be 80, was a private
soldier in General Lee’s Army, Company
A, 33rd Virginia Regiment, Stonewall
Jackson Brigade, and that is probably
why Arnold was sent to college at
Washington and Lee in 1903. He was 17
at the time.

After two years in college, Arnold
dropped out to return to farming. He
learned early to work hard and be frugal.

Today he recalls with vivid description
how he spent the post-World War I days
working with his father before eventually
taking over the total operation when his
father died in 1923.

In 1925, at the age of 40, Arnold
decided to return to law school at the
University. He received his law degree
with the Class of 1928. Facing the stock
market crash of 1929 and the depression
years of the early 1930s, Arnold con-
tinued farming and located in Romney,
W.Va.

 

 

 

He never actually practiced law but
did serve a term in the West Virginia
House of Delegates. Through diligent
management of his farm, real estate pro-
perties, and acquired securities, Arnold
accumulated a sizeable estate. Arnold’s
wife, Laura, died in 1972; the couple had
no children.

In December 1968 after several
months of discussion with University of-
ficials, Arnold transferred a group of
securities to Washington and Lee to
establish the George Sloan Arnold
Scholarship and Loan Fund and provided
that 90 percent of the income produced
by the Fund be distributed in interest-free
loans to needy West Virginia students
with preference for students from Hamp-
shire County, W.Va. The balance of 10
percent income was to be added to the
principal each year. Since then, Arnold
has made additional gifts to this Fund,
which provides significant assistance to
W&L students. In the academic year
1983-84, two students received aid
through the Fund.

Arnold is truly a friend of education.
In addition to Washington and Lee, he
has philanthropic interest in Hampden-
Sydney College, Mary Baldwin College,
and West Virginia University. The Hamp-
shire County School Board paid tribute
to Arnold in 1982 after he had establish-
ed a trust agreement to provide scholar-
ship aid to graduating seniors from the
county’s schools.

George Arnold is now living in a
retirement home in Harrisonburg, Va.,
and he recently entertained the entire
residence with a steak dinner and stood
to shake the hands of some 300 guests.
He treated the residents to a Christmas
dinner in December. He will have many
well-wishers on April 9. Happy 100th,
George!

 

Faculty activities

 

e James J. Donaghy, professor of
physics at Washington and Lee, spent the
summer of 1984 conducting research at
the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in
Oak Ridge, Tenn., under an appointment
in the U.S. Department of Energy’s
Faculty Research Participation program.

Donaghy was among 53 faculty
members from 36 colleges and univer-
sities to be selected for the program.

The Faculty Research Participation
program is administered for the Depart-

ment of Energy by the University Pro-
grams Division of Oak Ridge Associated
Universities.

The program provides an opportunity
to university faculty for collaborative
participation in ongoing research and
development programs or activities at
designated DOE research facilities.

It was the second consecutive summer
during which Donaghy participated in the
Oak Ridge program.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1967, Donaghy received his bachelor’s
degree from the University of Florida and
his Ph.D. from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill.

e Edward C. Atwood Jr., dean of
the School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics at Washington and Lee, has
been named the co-chairman of a special
task force of Virginia’s Council of
Higher Education.

The 15-member task force was
established to conduct a program evalua-
tion of the undergraduate business ad-
ministration programs in Virginia’s state
colleges and universities.

The task force will be assessing the
current and future need for the programs
and will be evaluating the purposes and
objectives of those programs. It will also
examine the quality of program offerings,
faculty, students, and resources, and will
produce recommendations for future
actions.

During its work the task force will
conduct visits to selected institutions and
will make a final report by November of
1985.

 

Atwood

Atwood has been dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics
since 1969. Prior to that he was dean of
students at W&L. He earned his B.A.,
M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from
Princeton. He taught economics at W&L
from 1952 until 1960 when he left to join
the General Electric Company’s staff of
economists in New York. He returned to
W&L in 1962 as dean of students and
professor of economics.

The co-chairman of the task force
with Atwood is Bruce N. Chaloux, coor-
dinator of institutional approval and
academic special projects of the Council
of Higher Education.

The task force includes members from
both private industry and officials from
state-supported colleges and universities
in Virginia.

e David B. Dickens, associate pro-
fessor of German at Washington and
Lee, has had several of his translations
included in an ambitious new collection
of German literature in English.

Dickens is the translator of several
poems by 19th-century romantic poet
Clemens Bretano. His English versions of
those Bretano poems are part of The
German Library, a 100-volume collection
published by Crossroads/Continuum in
New York under the supervision of
leading American and German scholars.

The project seeks to make a vast
amount of German literature more readi-
ly accessible to the English-reading
public.

Dickens was commissioned to under-
take the work by Robert M. Browning,
editor of the 39th volume in the collec-
tion, which is entitled German Poetry
from 1750-1900. An experienced
translator, Dickens’ Bretano research has
already attracted international attention.

Dickens has been a member of the
W&L faculty since 1960.

e Three faculty members in
Washington and Lee’s School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics were par-
ticipants in the 54th annual conference of
the Southern Economic Association in
Atlanta during November.

John C. Winfrey, professor of
economics, and Carl P. Kaiser, assistant
professor of economics, presented papers
at the meeting. Winfrey, Kaiser, and S.
Todd Lowry, professor of economics and
administration, served as discussants dur-
ing the conference.

Winfrey’s paper was entitled ‘‘Adam
Smith on Value-in-Use’’ and was

23

&% Gazette

delivered at a session on the history of
economic thought. He was a discussant
for a session on public choice.

Kaiser delivered a paper entitled
‘‘Layoffs and the Taxable Payroll of
Unemployment Insurance’’ for a session
on labor markets and served as a discus-
sant in a session on trade unions.

Lowry was a discussant for a session
on the government’s role in the economy.
e J. Douglas Smith, assistant pro-
fessor of military science at Washington
and Lee, has been promoted to the rank

of major in the United States Army.

At a ceremony held in November,
Smith’s wife, Barbara, and Lt. Col. Luke
B. Ferguson, professor of military science
at Washington and Lee, pinned the gold
oak leaves of Smith’s new rank to his
epaulets.

Smith, a native of Swissvale, Pa., was
commissioned an officer in the Signal
Corps in 1973. He served 56 months in
the 35th Signal Brigade at Fort Bragg,
N.C., where he held positions as a pla-
toon leader, adjutant and company com-
mander for the 426th Signal Battalion.
Most recently he served as the chief of
the Southern Regional Signal Support
Regiment’s Budget Section, Allied Forces
Southern Europe in Naples, Italy.

He is a 1973 graduate of Robert Mor-
ris (Pa.) College where he earned a
bachelor of science degree in accounting.
While attending Robert Morris, Smith
cross-enrolled for Army ROTC at Du-
quesne University where he served as the
Cadet Battalion Commander in 1973.
Smith also earned a master’s of business
administration degree from West Virginia
University in 1980.

At Washington and Lee, he teaches
military history to sophomore students
enrolled in the ROTC program. He also
is the faculty adviser to the Delta Tau
Delta fraternity and an assistant baseball
coach.

e Sgt. Ist Class Raymon L. Kuper,
Washington and Lee’s military science
department senior drill instructor, has
been selected for promotion to Master
Sergeant in the U.S. Army.

A native of Albers, Ill., Kuper
enlisted in the Army in 1970 and has
served overseas assignments in Germany
and Korea and stateside assignments at
Fort Benning, Ga., Fort Polk, La., and
Fort Riley, Kan.

His awards include the Expert Infan-
try Badge, Distinguished Drill Sergeant
Badge, and Army Commendation Medal.

24

 

78th Fancy Dress Ball Features Count Basie Orchestra

The Student Activities Board is
finalizing its plans for Washington and
Lee’s 78th Annual Fancy Dress Ball, still
considered one of the premier college
social events in the country. Fancy Dress
Weekend ’85 will be held from March 7
through March 9.

The weekend will officially open with
a concert and dance on Thursday night,
March 7. National recording acts will be
featured in the Student Activities
Pavilion, a new addition to the W&L
campus designed especially for such
events. The ball itself, the major event of
the weekend, will be held on Friday,
March 8, in Warner Center. The evening
will begin at 8:30 p.m.

Since Miss Annie Jo White, a W&L
librarian, founded Fancy Dress in 1907
to ease the winter doldrums, the event has
continued to grow, swelling in attendance
and enchantment. This year’s ball, with
the theme still a secret, promises to sur-
pass its predecessors. The SAB has been
planning for the gala event since
September and the diligence promises to
pay off. Recent years have shown a
significant increase in alumni attendance.
This year the SAB expects even more
returning alumni for this event, which
seems to personify W&L’s special
atmosphere.

The Count Basie Orchestra will kick
off this year’s ball. The year 1985 marks

the 50th anniversary of The Basie Or-
chestra, which has been delighting au-
diences worldwide. Although the
*‘Count’”’ died on April 26, 1984, his band
still offers the fine, distinctive sound that
The Count Basie Orchestra made so
famous. Freddie Green, an integral part
of the band since its beginning, noted that
Basie prepared an entrance at the end of
his solos for the next man. So too, Count
Basie left the way open for The Count
Basie Orchestra to continue in the tradi-
tion established over the past 50 years.

While The Count Basie Orchestra
entertains in the main ballroom, there will
be national soul and rhythm and blues
acts in Doremus Gymnasium. There pro-
mises to be music and entertainment to
suit all ages and tastes. The pleasant com-
plaint that there is too much to see and
do in one four-hour evening is sure to be
heard again this year.

The SAB encourages all alumni to at-
tend the 78th Annual Fancy Dress Ball.
Alumni will be gladly assisted by the SAB
in any way possible. Tickets are available
for $30 a couple and are obtainable
through the accompanying form. A list
of area accommodations is also provid-
ed. For additional information please
contact Carole Chappell at (703)
463-8590. The SAB looks forward to see-
ing you at this year’s Fancy Dress Ball.

Accommodations

Colony House (703) 463-2195

Days Inn 463-9131
Econo Lodge 463-7371
Holiday Inn 463-7351
Natural Bridge Hotel 291-212)

Lexington Motel 463-2151
McCampbell Inn 463-2044
Howard Johnson’s 463-9181
Keydet General 463-2143

 

 

Please send me

tickets to W&L’s 78th Fancy Dress Ball, which is to be

held on Friday, March 8, 1985. Tickets are $30 per couple. My check in the amount

 

 

oO: _________sis enclosed. (Payable to SAB.)

Name: Class of:

Address: Phone:
Zip:

 

Mail to: Student Activities Board
University Center

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

Archaeologists uncover kiln

 

Archaeologists from Washington and
Lee have unearthed a kiln that was used
to produce a variety of stoneware vessels
for Rockbridge County residents in the
mid-1800s.

The project site is in an agricultural
field near Rockbridge Baths.

Kurt C. Russ, research archaeologist
at Washington and Lee, has been direc-
ting the field work conducted by students
enrolled in a course in archaeological
survey methods which is part of the
University’s anthropology curriculum.

According to Russ, the site has yield-
ed literally thousands of shards, several
of which are clearly marked with a
‘*Rockbridge’’ stamp.

“‘The stamp on the material that we
have found matches the stamp on several
extant pieces of stoneware found in col-
lections here in the county,’’ said Russ.
“‘We can say with some certainty that the
pieces in those collections were manufac-
tured in the kiln that we have found.’’

The W&L archaeologists began their
research after receiving information from
Lexington historian Royster Lyle, who is

conducting research on the production of
early Rockbridge County crafts.

“Everybody knew there was a pottery
in Rockbridge Baths during the 1800s,
and many people had a vague idea about
where it had been,’’ explained Russ.
**During the course of his interviews
Royster Lyle found some leads and pass-
ed them along to us. We then conducted
interviews with the area residents and
were finally directed to this field by the
owner of the land, Robert Burner, who
gave us permission to begin the dig.”’

Documentary research of local census
records revealed a listing for a man nam-
ed Isaac Donald Lam, who was engaged
in the manufacture of stoneware in
Rockbridge Baths from 1850 to 1880.

‘“*The artifacts that we have uncovered
are almost certainly from that 30-year
period when Mr. Lam was working in
this area,’’ said Russ.

About one-fifth of the kiln itself has
been unearthed to date. But Russ can
already determine that it was a dome-
shaped circular updraft kiln about eight
to 10 feet in diameter and was heated by
either two or four fire boxes.

‘*It was a fairly common type of kiln
for that era,’’ said Russ.

Not so common, however, are some
of the products of the kiln that have
been uncovered.

‘‘The vessels we are finding were
utilitarian—crocks, jars, jugs,’’ Russ ex-
plained. ‘‘The jugs are ovoid in form
with certain types of decorative
treatments that are quite unusual for this
area of the country.

‘‘What is particularly unusual is the
presence of incising with brushed blue
cobalt to create a floral pattern or motif
on the body of the vessel.’’

Added Russ: ‘‘I am not aware of
anything like this in Virginia stoneware.
It is far more typical of stoneware that
you would see in the North, so that this
particular pottery seems to me to repre-
sent an unusual link between the North
and the South.”’

John McDaniel, associate professor of
anthropology at W&L and director of the
University’s archaeology laboratory, said
the Rockbridge pottery is exciting because
of the local interest that is generated.

‘‘There are many people who knew
about the pottery that was being produc-
ed here, had seen and maybe even owned
a piece of that pottery,’’ said McDaniel.

 

LACROSSE
Mar. 2—Duke Home
Mar. 9—North Carolina Away
Mar. 16—Maryland Home
Mar. 23—Virginia Home
Mar. 31—Towson Away
Apr. 17—Cornell Away
Apr. 20— Washington Away
Apr. 27—Bucknell Away
May 1—Roanoke Home
May 4—Loyola Away
May 11—UMBC Home
BASEBALL
Mar. 9—C. Newport (2) Home
Mar. 11—Va. Wesleyan Away
Mar. 16—F&M (2) Home
Mar. 18—E. Mennonite Away
Mar. 19—Bridgewater Away
Mar. 21—Hampden-Sydney Away
Mar. 23—Randolph-Macon (2) Away
Mar. 27—Lynchburg Home
Mar. 28—VMI Home
Mar. 30—Emory & Henry (2) Away
Apr. 2—E. Mennonite Home
Apr. 3—Hampden-Sydney Home
Apr. 16—Lynchburg Away
Apr. 18—Bridgewater Home
Apr. 20—Maryville (2) Away
Apr. 24—Va. Wesleyan Home
Apr. 27—Radford (2) Home

 

May 1—ODAC Quarterfinals T.B.A.
May 4—ODAC Semifinals

and Finals T.B.A.
May 6—VMI Away
May 8—Newport News Home

GOLF

Mar. 4-5—Division III Tourn. Away
Mar. 15-16—JMU Invit. Away
Mar. 21—Liberty Baptist

Longwood Home
Mar. 25—Bridgewater Home
Mar. 29—Liberty Baptist Away
Apr. 19—Shipbuilders Invit. Away
Apr. 23—Longwood Away
Apr. 25—Bridgewater, Shepherd

Liberty Baptist Away
May 2-3—ODAC Champ. Away

TENNIS

Mar. 1—Penn State Home
Mar. 4— Averett Home
Mar. 7—Slippery Rock Home
Mar. 11—Lehigh Home
Mar. 12—Bloomsburg Home
Mar. 14—Millersville Home
Mar. 15—Rochester Home
Mar. 17—Greensboro Home
Mar. 20—Emory & Henry Away
Mar. 22—George Mason Away
Mar. 23—C. Newport Away

Spring Sports Schedules

Mar. 24—Colby Home
Mar. 26—Lynchburg Away
Mar. 28—Hampden-Sydney Home
Mar. 29—William & Mary Home
Apr. 1—Virginia Tech Home
Apr. 2—Randolph-Macon Home
Apr. 3—VMI Away
Apr. 15—Stetson Away
Apr. 16—C. Florida Away
Apr. 17—Rollins Away
Apr. 18—Flagler Away
Apr. 22—James Madison Home
Apr. 24—Emory/Davidson Away
Apr. 26-27—ODAC Champ. Away
Apr. 29— Virginia Away
Apr. 30—Radford Home
May 13-19—NCAA Div. III Home
OUTDOOR TRACK

Mar. 16—Davidson, E&H Home
Mar. 19—Bridgewater,

Eastern Mennonite Away
Mar. 23—Liberty Baptist Invit. Away
Mar. 26—Newport News, Roanoke

Eastern Mennonite Home
Mar. 30—Mary Wash. Invit. Away
Apr. 13—Mt. St. Mary’s Relays Away
Apr. 20—Furman Invit. Away
Apr. 27—ODAC Champ. Home
May 4—Maryland Classic Away
May 11—Cavalier Classic Away

 

 

 

. me
7 - -
-
7 a
. - *
- 7 -
7 - 7 - - -
- . . . oe
7 -
- - . 7 .
= .
- - -
.
” . :
. 7 4.
- 7 -
. -
- :
. - :
7 .
=e ”
- .
> _ 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

 

  

   

  
  

   
 

 

 
      
  

   

   

 

     
   
  

a bicycle much. In fact, he schted*
. y trips he took down the Blue Ridge
Oo This past fall, however, | he rode his Bicycle around school
a much more of
always wanted to do it, and it was
ee ,” said Corky, who
| trip and a mounted
; Another wall holds a fr
7 in, and he was supportive,” said Corky. “He
me to do it myself, but my
It that i
Oo Corky joined the
together with

  

 

 

 

+g?
os Ps ¢

His parents accompanied him for the two days it took to
reach Ashland, then Corky continued by himself until he met
Lewis in Damascus. Although he camped out only once while
traveling alone, Corky and Lewis spent most of their nights
under the stars in city or national parks. Rather than pitching
a tent, they often just threw their sleeping bags on picnic
tables.

““Once every two weeks or so, we would spend a night in a
hotel, just to get a taste of civilization and to shower,’’ he
said.

**Kansas was great. They had pools in their city parks, so
we would stop and jump in for awhile.’’

They ate mostly in small country cafes and restaurants,
although they also carried a small camping stove and ate a lot
of beef stew.

Their route took them from Virginia through Kentucky,
southern Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming,
Montana, Idaho, and Oregon.

‘“*As we neared the end, we got so excited. We had plan-
ned to ride our bikes through the sand and into the ocean, but
we couldn’t because the beach was 50 yards wide,’’ he
explained.

Making impromptu plans, the pair unpacked their bikes,
ran across the sand and dipped the bikes in the water.

‘*I like the two skiers, Phil and Steve Mayre, and they
often take photographs with their skis above their heads,”’
said Corky. ‘‘So I took a picture with my bike above my
head.

‘““We were going to dive in, too, but we stopped when we
got knee-deep because the water was freezing.’’

From Oregon, the two rode a bus south to San Francisco
because ‘‘at that point we didn’t want to get on a bike again,

ever.’’ They rented a car and saw the sights in San Francisco
until Corky’s parents, who were on a business trip, met them
there, and they flew home.

‘fA lot of people were really surprised that we didn’t ride
back,’’ he said.

Although seeing the country was the primary motivation
for the trip, it was the different people they met that kept the
pair going.

One of the first characters they met was ‘‘Cookie Lady,”’’
who owns a home halfway up Afton Mountain between
Charlottesville and Lexington, the steepest incline the two
bikers faced. Her reputation for hospitality to bicyclists has
increased the number of visitors to her home so much that she
opened a hostel and now maintains a storeroom of food for
the passers-by.

Later, in a national park in Missouri, they encountered
“‘two of the biggest freaks, the long-haired, bearded types who
bragged about the number of men they had beaten up in
bars,’’ Corky recalled.

**But we got to know them really well. They showed us the
best part of the river to swim in. Then we listened to them
play guitar all afternoon. They made up the words to songs as
they went along. They made up one about us.

*‘They were taking shots from a liquor bottle when one of
them bit the top off, chewed the glass and spit it out while he
kept singing.’’

They also met several serious bikers, whom Corky describ-
ed as ‘‘a little far out.”’

*‘One of our goals on the trip was not to become ‘Joe
Biker.’ At one point, in Sun Valley, Idaho, I was having a
problem with my bike and with getting it fixed. A girl came
up to Lewis and asked him, ‘Can you help me? You look like
a serious biker.’

“*It was the ultimate disappointment.’’

Corky had only one wreck. In Kansas he tried to hitch a
ride by holding onto the back of a truck. ‘‘Lewis went. down
first, then I ran into him.”’

Corky is surprised that he still has a strong interest in
bicycling.

“‘I had thought that when I got to the coast, that would be
it. I was going to bronze my bike. Instead, I’ve wanted to
take advantage of being in such good riding shape.

“Besides, it’s more fun to ride near home because you
know you have a bed and food at night,”’ he said.

Corky plans to make the trek at least once more because
his father wants to do it. A future goal may even be to ride
there and back.

An English major, he is traveling to Europe this spring
with members of the English department at W&L, and he
hopes to take some time to go bicycling over there.

‘Who knows? I may take up racing, just for the heck of
it.”’

(This article first appeared in the Richmond News Leader and
is reprinted here by permission.)

ai

 

 

 

 

:
c - - :
; - Joos:
7 : :
.
.
- - - ; 7
- . . . .
oe

- - 7 ;
- ; /
: .

-

  

.

 

Reports on Activities of the Alumni Board . - a Bn

 

issue of the Alumni Magazine includ
‘ais ofthe Washincion and’

 

ion,

 

the University

 

       

 

 

ticular aspect of our October meeting.

As you know from previous reports, the Board of Trustees
kept the Alumni Board fully informed during the coeducation
study and decision. That process of communication between
the Board of Trustees and the Alumni Board is continuing.
We met at length with Rector Jim Ballengee and President
John Wilson to discuss the plans for implementing coeduca-
tion. We also met with the Coeducation Steering Committee,
composed of staff, faculty, and students. Finally, we met, as
we always try to do, with a group of student leaders from the
Executive Committee, Interfraternity Council, Ring-tum Phi,
Independent Union, class presidents, dormitory counselors,

and other groups. We heard details on the planning guidelines.

We heard the current thinking and plans in areas ranging
from large and obvious considerations (dormitories, sororities,
and intercollegiate athletics) to areas so minute we were amaz-
ed. We questioned particularly student attitudes about
coeducation and learned that there had been a great turn-
around. Most students now actively favor coeducation, are
willing to work to help implement it, and see the decision as a
positive one for the University.

Based on our conversations, we did make two suggestions
to the University. First, we suggested that information on the

transitional plans be furnished to all alumni, probably by ar-
ticles and reports in this magazine. It is important for you to
know the targeted numbers and other such information. Se-
cond, we recommended that more time and attention be given
to freshman orientation next year and in the future. Believing
that freshman orientation is the springboard to help assure the
continuation of certain of our special values, we think that ex-
tra attention should be given now and in the future to orienta-
tion. We feel the orientation ought to concentrate on such
matters as the Honor System, social life and conduct, and the
other areas important in making these new students keenly
aware of Washington and Lee’s traditional values.

There is much more to say and no room to Say it. All of
you would have enjoyed the campus-wide party, with music by
The Spinners, in the new student pavilion on the back cam-
pus. All of you would be impressed with and would enjoy
knowing the current students we had the opportunity to meet.
Suffice it to say, it appears to this Alumni Board that Lex-
ington is a vibrant, wonderful place to be these days and that
Washington and Lee is well prepared to move forward to
secure its position as a nationally prominent institution, com-
bining the special values we hold so dear with a superior
education for highly qualified students.

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of the Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names and addresses of

are listed below:

 

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62
Kaufman & Canoles

P.O. Box 3037

Norfolk, VA 23514

(804) 624-3000

J. FRANK SURFACE JR., 60
Mahoney, Adams, Milam,
Surface & Grundy P.A.
P.O. Box 4099
Jacksonville, FL 32201
(904) 354-1100

 

Name Your Candidate

the Nominating Committee for 1984-85

 

M. THEODORE VAN LEER, ’51
Van Leer Chocolate Corp.
110 Hoboken Ave.

Jersey City, NJ 07302

(201) 798-8080

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill five seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination for the offices to
be filled. Alumni may send names directly
to any members of the committee or to
the committee through the office of the
Executive Secretary of the Alumni
Association at the University.

The committee will close its report on
April 1, 1985, and present its nominations
to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 12, 1985.

 

 

29

Chapter News

 

  

    
  

NEW YORK—At Philip Morris USA Headquarters are (from left) Trustee ENINSULA—Trustee Charles Rowe, ’45, elaborates on his remarks in
Ross Millhiser; Matt Thompson, ’84; Dave Adams, ’84; David Dowler, a conversation with David Short, 84.

69; and, Trustee Tom Wolfe, ’51.

    

PALMETTO—The chapter’s softball team smashed the Wahoos 18-2. Back SINGAPORE—Gathering for a W&L evening in Singapore were (from
row from left: Gary Haley, Sam Painter, Bill Sargent, Bobby Kelly, Preston left) Benton J. Mathis, ’84L; James B. Thompson Jr., ’66, with Kimberly
Covington, George Wolfe, Rick McCain, Frank Ellerbe, Mike Burnette, Thompson, Henry Baey, ’83; and, Robert Parker, ’84.

Les Cotter, Tuck Laffitte. Front from left: Chip James, John Vlahoplus,

David Fischer, Bobby Pearce, Norris Laffitte, Jack Dent.

The fall of 1984 was busier than ever for Washington and Rowe, ’45, met with the Peninsula Chapter in Newport News.
Lee alumni who gathered for chapter meetings across the Trustees Houston Harte, ’50, and Frank Young, ’66, were on
country and, including an impromptu reunion in Singapore, the program for a meeting of the Dallas Chapter. Trustees
across the world. Ross Millhiser and Tom Wolfe, ’51, spoke to the New York

From late October through mid-December, 22 W&L alum- Chapter.
ni chapters held gatherings of one sort or another with a ma- In many instances, the programs included remarks by
jority of the programs focusing on the University’s plans to representatives of the alumni office—Alumni Secretary Dick
implement coeducation in the undergraduate divisions next Sessoms, Associate Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, and
fall. Director of University Relations Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58.

W&L President John D. Wilson attended seven meetings, Here is a roundup of the fall’s meetings:

joining alumni in Cincinnati, Detroit, Denver, Kansas City,
St. Louis, Richmond, and Danville.

Many of the University’s trustees were involved in chapter
meetings as well. Rector James Ballengee, ’48L, was featured
at the Pittsburgh Chapter. Trustee Gordon Leggett, ’54, spoke

HILTON HEAD. The newly formed chapter elected its initial
officers on Oct. 24—Lewis W. Martin, ’35, president; Fred E.
Waters, °38, vice president; William E. Bowen, ’61, secretary;
and Craig T. Dumesnil, ’73, treasurer.

to gatherings in Lynchburg and Roanoke. Joining Leggett for WASHINGTON. Under the leadership of Waller T. (Beau)
the Roanoke meeting was Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’48, pro- Dudley, ’74, ’79L, new chapter president, and Gerald Giblin,
fessor and head of the department of English. Trustee Charles °81, secretary, the chapter met for cocktails on Oct. 25.

30

TC nn ne

 

 

 

ROANOKE—Alumni Board member James Jennings, ’65, ’77L, (left) with
Saunders Guerrant, ’23, (center) and Arnold Masinter, ’62, chapter
president.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—The November gathering included (from
left) Tom Murphy, ’77; Alton Sartor, ’38; Jim Reeder, ’55; Andy Gallagher,
51, *55L; Steve Yancey, ’66; and, Jerry Perlman, ’69.

DALLAS. Trustees Harte and Young were the honored guests
at a reception at the Dallas Country Club on Oct. 30. Chapter
president Bowman Williams, ’75, and Alumni Board director
Lee Halford Jr., ’69, led the program.

UPPER POTOMAC. On Halloween evening, the Upper
Potomac Chapter met at the Cumberland, Md., Country
Club. Chapter president Al Darby, ’43, announced that the
chapter has donated a copy of Ollinger Crenshaw’s General
Lee’s College to the Cumberland Library in memory of Dr.
Edwin C. Miller, ’23, a chapter member who died during the
summer. Alumni Board director Charlie Beall, ’56, of Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va., was in attendance. A special guest at the
meeting was Mrs. Paul Pickens, widow of Paul D. Pickens,
"17;

PENINSULA. Trustee Rowe addressed the Peninsula Chapter
on Nov. 1 at the James River Country Club. Conway Sheild,
°64, ’67L, arranged the meeting.

 

in Cincinnati were (from left) Bill Jamison,
65; Martina Jamison; Lisa Faucheaux; and, Brian Downes, ’80.

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Milburn Noell, ’51, ’*54L, associate director
of development, meets with chapter members. From left, Dave Ann Pen-
nington; Dave Pennington, ’84L; Noell; Tommy Shepherd, ’84L; and, Mary
Scott Shepherd.

NEW YORK. More than 70 chapter members enjoyed the
reception facilities of Philip Morris World Headquarters for a
Nov. 1 gathering. Trustee Millhiser, vice chairman of Philip
Morris, was host for the event and was joined by Trustee
Wolfe. Also attending was Ollie Mendell, 50, a member of
the Alumni Board. Chapter president David Dowler, ’69,
presided over the meeting.

ROANOKE. The Roanoke Alumni Chapter enjoyed a buffet
luncheon on Nov. 2 at the Patrick Henry Hotel and heard
Professor Coulling, 48, and-Trustee Leggett. Arnold
Masinter, ’62, Scott Farrar, ’76, and James Jennings, ’65,
°72L, planned the luncheon.

SOUTHERN OHIO. President Wilson spoke to the Southern
Ohio Chapter on Nov. 7 at the Cincinnati Country Club. Tom
O’Brien, ’58, ’61L, is the new chapter president and paid
tribute to the chapter’s long-time leader, Bob Hilton, ’39.
Hilton recognized former national Alumni Association presi-
dent Jim Priest, ’43, of Dayton; former chapter presidents

31

Chapter News

 

DETROIT— Welcoming Mrs. Anne Wilson (center) to Detroit were Mrs.
Susan Mozena and John Mozena, ’67, president of the Detroit chapter.

 

ee

 

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Seated from left: Dave Pennington, ’84L; Chip
Billups, *71; Bob Cooper, ’35; John Crecink, ’77L; Tommy Shepherd, ’84L.
Standing from left: Porter Meadors, ’79; Joe Wise, ’74L; Sherwood Wise,
°32, °34L; Paul Neville, ’68L; Alton Phillips, ’68L; Jim Mozingo, ’75; Craig
Castle, *SOL.

 

\

Skip Hickenlooper, ’64, and Tom Winborne, ’51; and Bob
Wersel, ’42, one of the founding donors of the Southern Ohio
Scholarship.

DETROIT. The Detroit Chapter met at the Grosse Pointe
Yacht Club on Nov. 8 to hear President Wilson’s remarks.
John Mozena, ’67, chapter president, organized the evening,
which included the presentation of a Detroit Tigers’ cap and
tie to Wilson, a long-time Tiger fan, by Detroit News sports
writer Tom Gage, ’70.

SAN DIEGO. Rob Fure, director of summer programs,
outlined W&L’s continuing education opportunities for alumni
at a meeting on Nov. 12 at the Seapoint Clubhouse in La
Jolla. Chapter president John Klinedinst, ’75, ’78L, and his
wife, Cindy, were hosts. Joining the group were Jack and Ann
Keith, ’42L, of La Mesa, Calif., who had participated in the
1982 Alumni College.

DENVER. Chapter president Charles Pride, ’72, and his wife,
32

  

 

DETROIT—The Detroit meeting included (from left) R. K. Barton, ’63,
and Lisa and Tom Gage, ’70. President John D. Wilson addressed the
gathering.

KANSAS CITY—President John Wilson (left) talks with (from left) Russ
Fletcher, ’74; Clark Faulkner, ’71; and, Joe Vawter, father of junior Mat-
thew Vawter.

Kathy, organized a reception and dinner for President and
Mrs. Wilson on Nov. 13 at the Cherry Hills Country Club.

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI. Tommy Shepherd, ’84L, and
chapter president Joe Wise, ’74L, organized a meeting on
Nov. 13 at the Capital City Petroleum Club in Jackson.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. Wade Sample, ’69, and his
wife, Marcia, were the hosts for a shrimp boil on Nov. 14 at
the Pierremont Tennis Club in Shreveport. Archer Frierson,
°73, chapter president, and Haller Jackson, ’73, chairman of
the Alumni Admissions Program for the area, made remarks.

NEW ORLEANS. Throughout the fall the New Orleans
Chapter has been active, organizing a W&L Day at the
(World’s) Fair to hear the Brass and Percussion Ensemble per-
form on Oct. 15 and then meeting area high school students
for a reception at the home of Michele and Joe Carrere, ’77. —
Van Pate, associate director of admissions, was a special guest
for the latter function.

OO LL

 

 

 

   

a iu

KANSAS CITY—The Kansas City meeting brought together (from left)
Todd Sutherland, ’81, the chapter president; Clark Faulkner, ’71; and, Lin-
da and Skip Nottberg, ’71.

ARKANSAS—Renewing acquaintances at the Arkansas meeting were (from

left) Jimmy Moses, ’70; Lawson Turner, ’72L; B. J. Moses; Harriet
Stephens; Lee Thalheimer, ’73; Cathy Morse; and, Warren Stephens, ’79.

ARKANSAS. Lawson Turner, ’72, and his wife, Sandy, were
hosts for the Arkansas Chapter meeting on Nov. 15. Chapter
president Lee Thalheimer, ’73, planned the event with assis-
tance from Roddy McCaskill, ’75.

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA. The chapter held an informal
reception for President Wilson on Nov. 15 following a speech
Wilson made to the Danville Kiwanis Club. Henry Roediger,
’°41, °47L, introduced Wilson at the Kiwanis Club event.

KANSAS CITY. Skip and Linda Nottberg, ’71, and chapter
president Todd Sutherland, ’81, organized the meeting at
which President Wilson spoke on Nov. 28. Nottberg is a
member of the Alumni Board.

ST. LOUIS. Chapter president Landers Carnal, ’79, and his
wife, Mimi, were the hosts Nov. 29 for a dinner meeting at

the St. Louis Country Club, where President Wilson was the
speaker. In addition, Denny Niedringhaus, ’66, reported on

the Alumni Admissions Program.

 
   

a

 

bd

ST. LOUIS—The chapter president, Landers Carnal, ’79, (center) greets
Drew Baur, 66, (left) and Landon Jones, ’38.

APPALA CHIAN—Budady Atkins, 68, (center), associate alumni secretary,
spoke to the Appalachian meeting, which included (from left) Phil

McFarlane, ’71; Pam McFarlane; Atkins; Rob Petrey, ’41; and, Charles
Watson, °75.

LYNCHBURG. The chapter had a smoker and business ses-
sion on Dec. 5, at the Central Fidelity Bank building with
Trustee Leggett in attendance.

APPALACHIAN. Chapter president Phil McFarlane, ’71, and
his wife, Pam, organized the Dec. 6 meeting at the Peach Tree
Restaurant in Bristol, Va. McFarlane and Bob Vinyard, ’70L,
conducted a brief business meeting at which Mike Riley, ’72,
was elected chapter president.

RICHIMOND. President Wilson spoke at the chapter’s year-
end dinner on Dec. 6 at the Bull and Bear Club. New officers
are: Bob Priddy, ’67, president; Channing Martin, ’75, ’79L,
vice president; Pres Rowe, ’60, secretary; Ware Palmer, ’82,
treasurer; and, Matt Calvert, ’75, ’79L, AAP representative.

PITTSBURGH. Rector Ballengee was the featured speaker
Dec. 10 for the Pittsburgh Chapter’s first meeting in several

years under the direction of chapter president Dick Johnston,
56.

33

 

 

Oo

>

 

 

 

 

Tan ibe

 

 

 

 

 

Se
os ee eine nee

 

retired and is a paid executive with Second
Harvesters of Wisconsin, Inc.

1937

JAMES H. RIcE Jr. has retired as senior vice presi-
dent and trust counsel of First Commercial Bank
(formerly First National Bank) in Little Rock after
35 years.

PARKE ROUSE JR. has retired as a museum direc-
tor and is now a contributing editor to the Newport
News Daily Press. In addition to contributing to
magazines, he is at work on his 18th book. Rouse
and his wife live in Williamsburg.

1938

WILLIAM H. DANIEL is retired and living in Rogers,
Ark. He maintains his board membership in two
manufacturing concerns.

LANDON Y. JONES recently celebrated his 50th high
school reunion with SAMUEL P. MCCHESNEY Jr.,
°38, and J. McLAIN STEwanrrT, ’38.

W. SAxBY TAVEL and his wife have just returned
from a three-week, 1,400-mile tour of Portugal.

1939

MARRIAGE: RoBertT E. MILLIGAN Jr. and Mary
Virginia Keller on Aug. 4, 1984, in Grosse Pointe
Park, Mich.

ALEXANDER LOED, president of the Meridian
Museum of Art of Meridian, Miss., won the $400
first place Purchase Award at the Mississippi Art
Colony competition for his painting ‘‘Leaving it
Behind.’’

1940

ROBERT A. DEMENTI has retired and turned the
family business over to his son, Robert, ’82.

GEORGE M. FootE is retiring after 30 years on the
bench of the Alexandria, La., City Court.

JOSEPH HUNTER has retired from Hunter Engineer-
ing Co. to manage his farm properties and
investments.

ROBERT S. HUTCHESON JrR., a physician, retired
in January 1985 and will live in Roanoke, Va.

THoMAS H. MCCUTCHEON is retired. He and his
wife live in Chatham, Mass.

FRED D. SHELLABARGER is retired in Santa Fe,
N.M., but remains active by teaching a course at
the Santa Fe Community College and designing
houses.

1942

STANLEY L. SATER has recently retired from his
retail furniture business.

  

C. F. Gambill, °54

 

B.F. Judy, °47

GEORGE M. Foote (See 1940.)

1943

Puitip K. SHUTE has retired as secretary of the
Massachusetts Society of Cincinnati and has turn-
ed the family business over to the fifth generation.
He now spends winters in Ft. Myers, Fla.

1946

OLIVER W. McCLINTOCK Jr. has retired after 35
years with J. C. Penney Co., and has moved from
Baton Rouge, La., to Hickory, N.C.

WILLIAM OLENDORF published his fourth art book,
Addison Mizner Architect To the Affluent—A
Sketchbook, in 1983. The book was formally
presented in the Flagler Museum in Palm Beach
and the Boca Raton Club. An award-winning ar-
tist in his own right, Olendorf’s work is in the
private collections of President and Mrs. Ronald
Reagan, Vice President and Mrs. George Bush, II-
linois Gov. James Thompson, and several others.
In 1981 at a Republican Party fund-raiser in
Chicago, two Olendorf oil paintings were
presented to President and Mrs. Reagan. A pro-
fessional artist for more than three decades, Olen-
dorf has exhibited extensively throughout Europe
and the United States, including one-man shows
in Paris, Stockholm, Mykonos, San Francisco, and
Chicago. In 1963 he received a Rockefeller Foun-
dation Grant to lecture at educational centers in
the Midwest. He is currently at work on another
book.

1947

BERNARD F. Jupy has been appointed editor-in-
chief of The Toledo Blade. He has been editor
since 1973 and is a director of The Toledo Blade
Co.

1949

Dr. DAvip K. CALDWELL has recently accepted the
position of director of research at Marineland of
Florida. He is joined by his wife who is his research
partner.

1950

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is public affairs officer at
the U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul.

W. Roy HOFFMAN Jr. has recently completed
duties as co-general chairman of the National Pro-
fessional Golfers’ Association Tournament held
at Shoal Creek in Birmingham, Ala., in August.

ROBERT H. MAUuvckx is retired from his position as
a physician for E. I. dupont de Nemours. He is
an elder in the Presbyterian Church.

I. LEAKE WoRNOM Jr. is associated with the new
law firm of Patten, Wornom & Watkins of

  

   

Newport News, Va. Other W&L graduates
associated with the firm are Thomas R. Watkins,
’75, Robert R. Hatten, ’72L, Benjamin A.
Williams III, ’71L, and E. Thomas Cox, ’67, ’72L.

1951

Lewis P. Co..ins III has enjoyed two cruises in
1984: one to the Caribbean and another to Ger-
many, France, Portugal, Spain, Morocco and
Italy.

WILLIAM S. Rosasco III coordinated John Glenn’s
campaign in Florida’s Ist and 2nd congressional
districts. He also recently organized and attended
a Chamber of Commerce World Trade Council
Investment Mission to West Germany.

ROBERT H. SALISBURY spent three weeks in China
as part of a 10-member delegation of American
studies scholars visiting Chinese universities to ex-
plore how the Chinese might better study and
understand the United States.

1952

THOMAS R. WARFIELD has opened an investments
counseling firm, Warfield, Banfield & Co., Inc.,
in New York.

1953

JUDGE HuGu S. GLICKSTEIN of the Fourth District
Court of Appeals in Florida was the winner of the
Outstanding Jurist Award from the Young
Lawyers Section of the Florida Bar in June. Glicks-
tein has written several articles for young lawyers
and was chosen for his reputation for making
sound decisions as well as for his record of integrity
as a lawyer and a judge. He has served as assis-
tant state attorney, city attorney for Lauderdale
Lakes, and judge of the 17th Judicial Circuit. He
has also served on the Board of Governors of the
Florida Bar.

EDWIN C. MILLER has been named manager of
manufacturing operations and methods analysis
of the Kelley Springfield Tire Co. He has been
manager of tire technology services since 1983.

1954

CHARLES F. GAMBILL has been elected president of
the board of trustees of Illinois Masonic Medical
Center, a 556-bed medical care and teaching in-
stitution affiliated with the University of Illinois
Colleges of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmacy.

JOSEPH L. LANIER, chief executive officer and
chairman of West Point Pepperell, Inc., was
featured recently in Sky magazine. The article
praised his leadership and business skills. He was
named best chief executive officer in the textile in-
dustry by the ‘‘Wall Street Transcript’’ in 1982 and
was named one of the two best this year.

35

 

3 ton, on Nov. 14, 1984. He joins
br yther. a ; :

 

 

 

1975

MARRIAGE: T. Barry Davis and Martena Anne
Crippen on Oct. 19, 1984, in Washington, D.C.
In attendance were classmates Matt Krafft, Don
Hathway, Ray Rheult, Randy Taylor, Stu Nibley,
and Jack Parks. Others attending were Duncan
Klinedinst, ’74; Paul Maloney, ’76; Paul Larken,
’76; Paul Cromlin, ’76; Bruce Dunnan, ’76; Tait
Trussell, ’49; and Arthur Sinclair, ’37. Davis
recently won a trip to Monte Carlo as one of the
top 3 M/MNI producers of the year.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. CARTER H. Moore, a
daughter, Emily Elizabeth, on July 21, 1984, in
Houston, Texas. Moore was recently promoted to
staff landman with Amoco Production Co.

BIRTH: Witit1am W. TeErRRy III and Leslie
Marfleet Terry, a daughter, Megan O’Brien, on
May 22, 1984. Terry is a partner in the law firm
of Wetherington & Melchionna in Roanoke, Va.

WILLIAM E. FORLAND Jr. resigned from the Boe-
ing Aerospace Co. in March 1984 and now studies
veterinary medicine at the University of Nebraska
in Lincoln.

Gary R. Knick has been named treasurer of
Virginia Military Institute. He leaves Cox,
Allemong & Co. in Martinsburg, W.Va.

THOMAS R. WATKINS (See Wornom 1950.)

1976

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Marc S. LEVIN, a son,
Brandon William Allen, in October 1984 in Ann
Arbor, Mich.

1977

E. TONI GUARINO was promoted to program ad-
visor for food and drug advertising in the division
of advertising of the Federal Trade Commission
on Aug. 6, 1984.

1978

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ERIK S. GREENBAUM, a
daughter, Virginia Gordon, on Aug. 8, 1984, in
Huntington, W.Va.

STEPHEN P. RODGERS is currently an economist for
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in
Washington, D.C.

1979

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. SAMUEL A. NOLEN, a son,
Samuel Maverick, on Sept. 20, 1984, in Wilm-
ington, Del.

R. TAYLOR HARBISON JR. is a painter living in New
York. He has recently begun to sell his works, two
of which were ‘‘Orient Point, Long Island’’ and
‘‘Boy Going to Heaven.”’

Nert J. WELCH JR. has joined the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Heron, Burchette, Ruckert &
Rothwell. He practices civil and criminal law.

DoucLas B. WyaTT, photographed with his
mother and brother, appeared in the October 1984
Vanity Fair as part of a feature on Houston.

1980

MARRIAGE: JaAMEs F. HAwKINs Jr. and Carol
A. Duke on June 2, 1984, in Fairfax, Va. A
member of the wedding party was Gardner T. Um-
barger III, ’79. Hawkins is the national manager
of sales education for Sharp Electronics Corp. The
couple will reside in Bergen County, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. J. CLAY CRUMBLISS, a son,
James Clay Jr., on Dec. 9, 1984, in Chattanooga,
Tenn. They live in Lookout Mountain.

ROBERT B. EARLE has been promoted to the rank
of lieutenant and is weapons department head in
charge of sonar, torpedo, and fire control divisions
aboard the USS Thomas Jefferson.

CapT. MARK D. SMITH has completed an armor
officer advanced course at the U.S. Army Armor
School in Ft. Knox, Ky.

1981

MARRIAGE; RIcHARD W. SALMONS Jr. and
Angela Hamer Dillard on Oct. 29, 1984. The cou-
ple lives in Charleston, S.C., where Salmons is vice
president of Salmons Dredging Corp.

BIRTH: DeBoRAH HuGHES CRUZE and Gary
Cruze, a son, Aaron Griffith, on April 19, 1984,
in Phoenix, Ariz. He joins an older sister. The
family lives in Glendale, Ariz.

JOHN G. P. BoATWRIGHT Jr. will graduate from
the University of Virginia School of Medicine in
May 1985. After a one year general medical in-
ternship, he will enter an ophthalmology residen-
cy at the Medical University of South Carolina in
Charleston in July 1986.

W. PowELL Jonzs is still with W. J. Powell Co.,
Inc., a wholesale food service. He has just transfer-
red from the Alabama office to the home office
in Thomasville, Ga.

PETER H. LOVELL received a juris doctor degree
from New England School of Law during the 1984
commencement exercises. His name was listed on
the school’s Dean’s List and he was on the staff
of the New England Journal on Criminal and Civil
Confinement.

W. Cope Moy_eErs is a reporter for the Dallas Times
Herald covering the Dallas County judicial system.
He was recently a member of a team of reporters
who won a state award for investigative reporting.

GEOFFREY P. Sisk has joined Branch Cabell of
Richmond as a registered representative. Branch
Cabell is a member of the New York Stock
Exchange.

MARK M. SuBER is maitre d’hotel at the Gover-
nors Club of Tallahassee, one of the most exclusive
dining clubs in Florida.

Davip G. WEAVER is an associate with the
Roanoke law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes and
Moore. He, his wife, Janette, and son, David Jr.,
now live there.

1982

NEIL J. WELCH Jr. (See 1979.)

1983

MARRIAGE: Davw A. CurTiss and Karen Rum-
bo on June 9, 1984. In attendance were Michael
Layne, ’83, and William Curtiss, ’87. Curtiss is
a mortgage origination manager for First Jersey
Savings. The couple lives in Midland Park, N.J.

MARRIAGE: TERRY JEAN MCKENNEY AND JOHN
W. PERSON, on Oct. 6, 1984, in East Lansing,
Mich. Bridesmaids included Patricia Davison Pro-
uty, ’83, and Pamela Ryan, ’83. Groomsmen in-
cluded Millard L. Fretland, ’83, and H. Morgan
Griffith, ’83. Steven J. Travelli, ’83, was guest
soloist. Others attending the wedding were
classmates Jacqueline F. Ward and Carolyn L.
Camardo, and Steven J. Talevi, ’82. The couple
will live near Lansing, Mijch., where Person is
associated with Loomis, Ewert, Etterer, Parsley,
Davis and Gotting, and where his wife is associated
with McGinty, Brown, Jakubiak, Frankland &
Hitch, P.C.

RICHARD A. BAER is northeast regional sales
manager for Transinitro, Inc. He is living in Lan-
caster, Pa.

JOHN H. DEGNAN III graduated from Southern
Methodist University in the spring of 1983 with
a bachelor of business administration, a certificate
in real estate and a minor in geology. He backpack-
ed across New Zealand after graduation and
returned to get his real estate license in 1984.
Degnan is now the assistant manager of the pro-
perties division of both Texas Industries, Inc. and
Brookhollow Corp.

C. Woop SELIG is enrolled in tie sports administra-
tion program at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio,
for a masters in sports administration and facili-
ty management. He will graduate in June of 1985.

E. RAYMOND WoopDarpD III attends Campbell
University School of Law in Buies Creek, N.C.

ANTHONY J. ZACCAGNINI is a second-year law stu-
dent at the University of Baltimore School of Law,
and is clerking in Orphans Court for Baltimore
County.

37

 

~ - 7 - / _ :
ae 7 cae)

a 1 7
ee es,

1984 oe Ss ofa ye Te ae
* oe - - 7 a - _ _ ho ee

=
a
OO

-
-

| Rat A gh ale
Oo : [ : a ee
“ . 7 ue

: 1 ee

a

| er eee
a / -. -

oe
oe

ae
oe

7 . 7 * :
Hes,

 

 

 

 

And furthermore. . .

Letters to the Editor

On The Athletic Decision

EDITOR:

I read with great interest and not a little
nostalgia the article entitled ‘‘Turning Back
the CloekY (Alumni Magazine
September/October 1984). Having been a
member of the Executive Committee the year
that Bill Bailey was present, I recall the long
hours into many a late night when that
gathering of students agonized over the
almost unbelievable web of intrigue that was
uncovered in the cheating scandal involving
so many football players.

I recall also the dismay and perhaps naive
disbelief that I felt when the vocal alumni
chastised and accused Dean Leyburn for
engineering the downfall of nationally pro-
minent W&L football. He had nothing to do
with it. The alumni never understood that
it was the duly elected students, struggling
with the issue of the popularity of college
athletics over against the integrity of one of
the few truly effective honor systems, who
blew the whistle on big-time football.
Leyburn was, in my estimation, the finest
educator, and certainly one of the finest
gentlemen that the W&L faculty has ever
known. That he maintained his dignity and
never flinched under the invective and abuse
that was heaped upon him in that incident,
is but one measure of the man.

Having lettered in two varsity sports
while at W&L, I am certainly not opposed
to athletics. On the contrary, a good athletic
program is essential to a‘well-rounded educa-
tion (something, incidentally, I learned from
Dean Leyburn in his marvelous lectures
about the Greek civilization). I am proud to
have been a student at W&L when the stu-
dent body stood up strong in its affirmation
for the traditions and integrity without which
there would have been no real education.

Thanks for refocusing our attention on
a very important incident in W&L history.

Dr. WATSON A. BowEs Jr., ’55
Chapel Hill, N.C.

EDITOR:

Excellent article on the history of foot-
ball at W&L. Having been a part of the
1949-53 days, the story brought back many
memories and stated well the problems which

led to the change.
LEONARD B. RANSOM Jr., *53
Cedar Rapids, Iowa

On Coeducation

EDITOR:

The anguish and anger expressed in many
recent letters to the editor have a familiar
ring for me. I read much the same sorts of
letters a little over a decade ago in the Yale
Alumni Magazine when that university, at
which I have now taught for going on 26
years, decided to admit women
undergraduates.

Yale alumni, like those of W&L, are
fiercely loyal to their alma mater (please note
gender). Many feared that admitting women
to Yale College would destroy its character.
That fear was understandable, just as is that
among some W&L alumni now. I bear good
news, however. Just a little over a decade
later, no one at Yale whom I know questions
the wisdom of its trustees in effecting
coeducation. The university has moved into
a new era with surprisingly little difficulty.
Ties to the alumni have become, if anything,
stronger, as daughters and granddaughters
as well as sons and grandsons now carry on
family traditions.

After more than a decade of coeducation,
there is general agreement that Yale has
become a better place for having women
students at the undergraduate level. I can at-
test to this myself, having spent about half
of my time as a faculty member teaching only
male undergraduates and the other half
teaching both women and men. Having
women in the classroom brings another
perspective to bear on many subjects and
creates a more normal human environment.
Also, as anyone who is at all sensitive to
developments in our country must know by
now, women are claiming, with mounting
success, a greater and greater role for
themselves in virtually all areas of life. Men
who lack the experience of working with
women—and competing with them—will
labor under mounting handicaps in the
future. W&L has been wise to look to the
future, in keeping with its motto.

Judging from Yale’s experience, W&L
women will also contribute toward a more

re ener er ee ee ee a ee

 

1749 WASHI estaba ee UNIVERSITY 19

oS if (fT iii

Was meee

;

saa Sa; , ="

aioe :

 

222 2 2224 24.4 24.4 2 &@ 4224 2.4 OAs

healthy social environment. When I first
came to Yale, I noticed that the men here,
as at W&L, talked with great interest among
themselves about their dates of the previous
weekend until sometime on Wednesday, at
which point their dates for the next weekend
became the topic. In private conversations,
however, many conceded that it was next to
impossible really to get to know women on
a one-date-a-week basis, that blind dates
were grim business, that mixers were a trial,
and long nocturnal auto trips a drag. Since
women students arrived, social life has
become much more casual, and students—
both male and female—are inclined to think
of each other as classmates, neighbors, and
friends rather than as members of different
and exotic species. This change has produc-
ed a far healthier environment than was the
case with the old Yale, and I expect that
W&L will have much the same experience.

Many of the alumni troubled by W&L’s
becoming coed understandably fear above all
a loss of cherished traditions. Here, too,
Yale’s experience should be reassuring. As
far as I can see, the deeper, abiding tradi-
tions of Yale have not suffered from the ad-
mission of women. When they arrived, they
quickly showed the same sensitivity toward
tradition as do the male students. In almost
no time, a breed of Yale ‘‘women jocks”’
made their appearance, eager to add to the
glory of their school by smiting down the
teams of women students fielded by Yale’s
traditional athletic rivals, all of which, with
the addition of Columbia this fall, have gone
coed. Other extracurricular activities have
been enriched by the participation of women.
Whereas Yale singing had previously been
limited to tenor, baritone, and bass voices,
the range of musical opportunities expand-
ed pleasantly. And with a ready supply of
actresses, the repertoire of student acting
companies now encompasses the full range
of dramatic literature, rather than being
restricted to plays with predominantly male
casts. Campus publications have become
more interesting than before through the ad-
dition of feminine points of view.

Let us all remember that the central com-
ponent of W&L’s traditions has been the
quality of the education it provides its
students. Many of us experienced our in-

39

And furthermore

tellectual epiphanies in classrooms off the
Colonnade, or in McCormick Library, or in
one of the scientific laboratories. I was
recently reminded of the remarkable climate
for learning provided by W&L when I look-
ed for the best scholarly books to recom-
mend to my students on two subjects and
noticed that the authors were my classmates,
Bob McGeehan and Bob Paxton. And when,
in the fall of 1984, Yale’s Center for British
Art held an international meeting on English
caricaturists, I noted with some pride that
one of the featured speakers was another
classmate, Richard Vogler, the world’s
foremost expert on the works of George
Cruikshank. Perpetuation of W&L’s tradi-
tion of quality education is the paramount
responsibility of the Trustees and the ad-
ministration. In resolving to admit women
undergraduates, they have met that respon-
sibility boldly and with considerable courage.
They deserve the fullest possible support
from the alumni in the challenging days
ahead.
Henry A. TURNER Jr., 54, Litt. D. ’78
New Haven, Conn.

EDITOR:

I could get discouraged about the deci-
sion that will allow women to attend W&L,
but I am ever mindful that the Trustees,
leastwise a majority of them, are mentioned
in the Bible—‘‘oh ye of little faith.’’

ROBERT C. DEVANEY, ’65
Houston, Texas

EDITOR:

A few alumni in Northern New Jersey
may be the first to have a first-hand look at
the effect of W&L’s going coed. Let me tell
you that it ain’t all bad!

Last year the Alumni Admissions Pro-
gram Committee, which is responsible for
recruiting freshmen, decided to put on a sym-
posium for all high school seniors whose
SAT scores were in a Satisfactory range.
There were 450 names on the list which was
provided by the W&L Admissions Office.
Some 28 prospects and their parents show-
ed up. Of these, 19 were subsequently
enrolled.

This year, we decided to repeat the sym-
posium, and guess what: 28 young men and
their parents came. But, there were also 10
young women! We felt that there was more
enthusiasm for W&L in this group than we
have ever seen before.

One thing was striking. To our untrain-
ed eyes, the young women appeared to be
head and shoulders more mature than their
male counterparts. While this will come as
no surprise to anyone who has been expos-
ed to elementary psychology, it was most ex-

40

citing to see in the context of coeducation at
W&L. It seems to me that the presence of
intelligent, mature young women in classes
is going to permit W&L to offer a far better
education to young men than would ever
have been possible as a single-sex college.
F. S. KIRKPATRICK, 741

Madison, N.J.

P.S. The symposium for prospective W&L
students is far and away the best recruiting
device we have ever tried. The idea isn’t
patented, and if any AAP Chairmen would
like to know what’s involved, drop me a line.

EDITOR:

I was opposed to the action taken by the
Trustees on coeducation from the day I first
learned of the revival of the issue. Viewed,
it was, aS an ersatz issue in lieu of reality.
As time passed, information remained ex-
tremely fragmentary. I had the feeling that
the deck was stacked. I thought the best we
foot-draggers, outside the arena of action,
could hope for would be to have the dark
moment of enactment put off to the late ’80s
or the early ’90s.

But, before the fateful vote, it became
apparent that time had passed by the majori-
ty of the alumni, and, indeed, the majority
of the student body. The time gone could not
be recaptured.

When future W&L students reach the
‘‘mature’’ years, the experience looked back
upon will be different from that of us now
‘‘mature.’’ Four years at Washington and
Lee were special for most of the present
alumni. Special in forming in one an ability
to evaluate, participate, appreciate. Special
in forming the critical foundations of a value
system, a system that stands, admirably, the
test of time, change, crises, and makes sur-
viving a reward.

I wish, most earnestly, that in its adap-
tation to the different societal equations of
today and tomorrow that W&L will continue
to provide such necessary building blocks for
the young of both sexes.

Nothing lasts forever! We were fortunate
to have had it so good. Every best wish,
Alma Mater. Whatever you are to be, be the
best.

SETH N. BAKER, 738
Chatham, N.J.

EDITOR:

It was with great joy and sincere ap-
preciation of the significance of the decision
that I read the Board of Trustees’ announce-
ment that, beginning in the fall of 1985,
Washington and Lee will admit women to
its undergraduate school.

In addition to lasting friendships which

cannot be comparatively valued, I remember
my days as a W&L student for two things:
the excellence of my legal education and the
pervasiveness of a narrow-minded attitude
among the student body, an attitude directed
particularly toward women and their place
in the Law School, University, legal profes-
sion, and society.

The latter was in sharp contrast to the
prevailing attitudes at the undergraduate col-
lege from which I arrived. The College of
Wooster is a Presbyterian-affiliated school
whose Christian influence is subtly
manifested through the humanistic attitude
pervading all aspects of campus life. At
Wooster I never felt there was anything I
could not be or do because I am a woman.

Moreover, I, a Presbyterian elder, lived
in a coeducational dorm, The International
House, for two years at Wooster. The accep-
tance of each human being that allows such
a situation to be handled maturely and
responsibly was present at Wooster and
coeducational dorms heightened the Wooster
experience.

In contrast, I did not find that
Washington and Lee students in large
manifested any adherence to traditional
Christian values of compassion and respect
for each human being. Thus I do not feel that
the advent of coeducational dorms on the
W&L campus, if such is indeed to be the
case, will do anything to undermine Chris-
tian values that are not present. I am at a
loss to understand what ‘‘Christian values in-
herent in Washington and Lee’s long tradi-
tion’’ would be betrayed by coed dorms.

As is apparent, the negative aspects of my
Washington and Lee experience far over-
shadowed the positive, the high quality of
the education, and do to this day in my
memory. The action of the Trustees serves
notice to all that change is in the air at
Washington and Lee and the admission of
women cannot help but force a modification
in attitudes. It is a step that will strengthen
all facets of university life and serve to bet-
ter prepare W&L students for life in the out-
side world.

The Board’s action is also a step that
helps counteract my worse memories and
makes me prouder to say I am a Washington
and Lee graduate.

I will be anxious to visit the W&L cam-
pus to see, and feel, these changes, and hope
that in the future I will feel that I can en-
courage young women to attend Washington
and Lee and obtain an excellent education
in a healthy, accepted, and supportive
environment.

CYNTHIA L. FAUSOLD, ’79L
Gorton, Conn.

    
  
  

Honor
Responsibility

Academic Excellence

 

/ Priceless values don’t come cheap.
a RT, gift to The Annual Fund sustains the SRT in which these values flourish.
| Do your best for The Annual Fund.

The Annual Fund
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

622€2 WA “4puowYsTy
*/

Y YOUSTEY LL2 Second Class Postage Paid
7 iw

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIV. unosTeg "L TSETueQ | At Lexington, Virginia 24450
(USPS 667-040) - SOLEVOO And Additional Mailing Offices
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww ; |

CL,

  
  
  

Tins aA

AUN.

y 4! TN nh

ili, iN du,

ee — ee
Ta a ors Hi
A ea oo 5
By hd

       

 

  
 
  

 

  

 

 

 

   

      

1 =r rs Fea al eae
i seseel me ! — Str ar re iat,
ee eo i j £ — ry a) be
= es a. = " ey | Era |) Pieectcs — =: el
| Bl SE span =e | Bele
eR== = fe) ee FS 2) Bes Ses
pet la ie 3-1) fee ges 9) lee || ae | Eg a Es eh
Be 2 Bee lellaieeBe
P| Fe) | ro > ea | i-5 = +}
PAL RI a — ss = e=- |. ah Ah i ————

 

 

ee a Reunions

May QO, fOy 01
Academic and Law Classes: 1935, 1940, 1945, 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965,
1970, 1975, 1980

(Tlo te: All aiea 100MS ale ve served by the hits umnt | Asso
tion. Members of Re union class es will receive resew iA thee
mation by » ma ail i in Mar ch. )

