 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 57, Number 7, November 1982

William C. Washburn, °40 ........ 0... cece cece eee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ...... Diesen nec eee ee Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ............. eee Associate Editor
Robert Fure ................cccceceeeeeeeeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter ........ 0... cc cece eee eee eeneeeees Editorial Assistant
Patricia B. Hale ............... 0. cece cece eee eee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely aa eee esseneeeeessechaceasennes Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Fall Weekends .................cc cece cceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees l
John McDaniel: A Profile ............... 0.0... cece eee e ees 4
Election Night ’82 ...............ccccceeeceene eens eeeeeenes 8
Kemp Champions the Disabled .......................68. 12
W&L Accommodates the Disabled ...................... 15
WL Gazette .......... ccc ccc cece cece eee e ee eeeeeeeeeees 17
A Unique Gift ........... ccc cece cece cece neces enee seen 24
Hold the Liver! ........... 0... cc cece cece cece ee eeeeeeeeeees 25
Summer Programs Update ..................0cesceeeeee ees 26
Work/Play Photography Levtesere eel pasaseneractaeee 28
Chapter News ..............cccccecceec cece seas eeeenaeeneeeas 32
Class Notes ............ccc cece cece ee eeeeeenseeeeeeeeaees 33
In Memoriam .................ccccecc cece senate eeeeeeaeeeees 36

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL Lapp III, 57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, *40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OweEN H. HARPER, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 759, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NorRMAN Jr., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
Rice M. TIL.ey JR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TURK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: J. Keith Shillington, professor of chemistry
at Washington and Lee, has become a tradition unto himself at
the University’s annual Homecoming celebration. For more
than two decades Shillington has appeared at halftime of the
Homecoming football game to present the Homecoming Queen
with her crown and a congratulatory kiss. Renowned as a
gourmet cook and an accomplsihed thespian, Shillington’s
appearance is a highlight of Homecoming festivities. Those
festivities and Parents’ Weekend are chronicled in photographs
starting on page 1. Photograph by Charles Mason, °84.

 

 

 

 

 

Lie ee
Ley
_

SoS

SS

ae :
SSehAR iene nanaRANNoNoORI

SE

 

t

 

 

 

 

 

Alumni and parents descended on Lexington for two weekends in October when Washington and Lee observed
both Homecoming and Parents’ Weekend. Large crowds watched the Generals’ football team on both
weekends and witnessed a victory over Randolph-Macon on Homecoming but a narrow loss to Sewanee
on Parents’ Weekend. Above left, a student and his parents tour the Colonnade while (right) Alumni
Association Vice President Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, registers for Homecoming.

Charles Mason Photograph

Charles Mason Photograph

 

oe

Be

ey

cao

Bee
ae

eS

ae
os
ss

-
tt

se

oe

as

ronin

always, fellowship was the major ingredient

iS
_
ao

rc

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from top left: President Robert E. R. Huntley addresses parents in Lee Chapel during Parents’
Weekend; Robert Stewart conducts the Brass and Percussion Ensemble in the Parents’ Weekend concert
which also included the W&L Glee Club; W&L students had plenty of time to relax with their families;

and, parents were given an opportunity to ask questions of faculty, administrators, and students in panel
discussions.

 

 

 

by Robert Fure

Digging for China

Meticulous Archaeological Research Has Become
A Valuable Part of the University’s Program

WAL Professor John McDaniel: A Profile

 

McDaniel and his students at the Liberty Hall dig: “We wanted to know about Washington and Lee, and
what the school as it existed in the late 18th century could tell us further about the area at that time.’’

4

 

The relation of most people to the
historical past is at best whimsical. We have
a few chronicles, mostly of the wealthy and
politically prominent, a few artifacts, and in
some cases, a hazy family narrative, passed
down with adornments from one generation
to the next.

These serve to give us a vague sense that
human civilization antedates our own
existence. The usefulness of that sense is, as
always, subject to debate, for walk as we
may to a hill that was once the site of an
ancient settlement or battlefield we are still
alone, inured by the present moment and the
limitations of human consciousness. The hill
is grassy now and silent, our ancestors
invisble and mute. The sun goes up and
down, and we dream a little of what may
have been.

The relation of John McDaniel to the
historical past is rather more contentious. It
is immediately apparent in his bearing. A
short, muscular man, he speaks of his
profession, archaeology, with the intensity of
a man clamoring for the hard facts of history.

Among the academic disciplines,
archaeology is perhaps the least abstract, the
most skeptical, the most picayune. It is the
historicity of concrete evidence, a discipline
hardened by doubt. Social historians, whose
science is the training ground for
archaeologists, must forever endure the
archaeologist who muses, ‘‘We’ll see about
that.’’ In an easier world, they might more
happily weave the fabric of prehistoric
civilizations, spinning their material out of
traditions, myths, and local legends. We
might dream of Egypt merely by its pyramids
were it not for the niggling sifters of
archaeology, the field workers in the science
of who we were before we knew enough to
Say ourselves.

So there is a certain aggressive pitch to
John McDaniel’s shoulders.

* * *

McDaniel first came to Washington and
Lee in 1960 as a student intent on lacrosse
and a liberal education. The son of a
Dartmouth economics professor who later
became Executive Secretary of the Ford
Foundation, McDaniel grew up with solid
educational values to complement his
exceptional athletic ability. At W&L, he won
All-American honors in lacrosse and was

 

selected Athlete of the Year in 1964. But
more importantly he found a focus for his
intellectual energies.

‘*T had always had an interest in
archaeology since I was a kid, but it was the
Gne introductory course in anthropology at
W&L taught by Dean Leyburn that. . .’’
McDaniel looks off into the distance for a
moment, **. . . Well, he was a tremendously
effective teacher of undergraduates and
simply excited me about the area. The
following summer I went up to the
University of Pennsylvania to take a graduate

«|. The intensity of a man clamoring for the hard facts of history.”’

course just to see what it would be like.
After that I knew what I wanted to do.”’

After graduating from W&L in 1964,
McDaniel went back to Penn for a Ph.D.
program in anthropology. His doctoral
project took him to ancient ruins in Peru,
where he dug, scraped, and dusted,
measured, mapped, and drew conclusions,
learning his craft.

‘‘T loved the archaeology, but during my
years in graduate school frankly I became
somewhat disenchanted with the large
research-oriented institution. While I was at

Photographs by Sally Mann

 

Penn, however, I discovered that I truly
enjoyed teaching. In 1972, Dean Leyburn
asked me if I’d like to come back here. I
knew that Washington and Lee gave me as
good an opportunity to teach as any place,
the research opportunities were interesting,
and there were still a lot of people at W&L
whom I respected. So I accepted the offer.”’
Yes, not to mention all those wild turkeys in
the hills outside Lexington. But more of that
later.

McDaniel took up his duties at W&L
with missionary zeal—as if it were an errand

5

Digging for China

into the wilderness by a research scientist
called to set up a laboratory and courses in a
place that had previously enjoyed only
Leyburn’s poetic historiography. When
asked about his most satisfying
accomplishment in his 10 years at W&L,
McDaniel answers promptly and assuredly:
‘*What we’ve been able to accomplish with
respect to establishing a department of
anthropology.’’

The record is indeed impressive. Beyond
the old introductory anthropology course is a
curriculum now ranging from cultural
anthropology to field archaeology. McDaniel
has had to restrict enrollment in his spring
seminar in field archaeology to 35. Two
years ago, 60 students signed up. **Perhaps
some of them mainly want to work on their
tans. But others seem to develop a deep
interest in what we’re doing. In some cases it
lasts—currently we have eight W&L alumni
either in graduate anthropology programs or
working as professional archaeologists.’’

Remembering his own enthusiasm as an
undergraduate, McDaniel has developed
programs for summer study as well. He has
hosted sessions in archaeology for
Earthwatch and VMI summer students. The
ongoing archaeological projects at W&L
have created additional opportunities for
continued study during the summer months.
In fact, through a scholarship fund created by
alumni in honor of Dean Leyburn, six W&L
students spent last summer as paid assistants,
*“Leyburn Scholars,’’ working on local
projects. ‘“The money that alumni donated to
this fund was astonishing. It’s testimony to
how much Leyburn was revered by his
students. Fortunately, Leyburn is still alive
to know the admiration we all feel.”’

Leyburn’s photograph hangs over
McDaniel’s desk. The expression suggests
modest dignity but with an aspect somewhere
between mild curiosity and bemusement.
McDaniel himself gave Leyburn’s name to
his first child.

* * *

Students in his various anthropol-
ogy/archaeology courses refer to McDaniel
as “‘Dr. Intensity.’’ The reasons are
most apparent when he is discussing one
of the ‘‘digs.’? McDaniel’s most absorbing
archaeological project in recent years has
been the Liberty Hall excavation, 1974-

6

 

4 2s
#

Working toward ‘‘the sort of ground sense that
archaeologists develop over time.”’

1979. The findings have led to significant
revisions in our understanding of W&L’s
earliest history. These were published in a
56-page monograph entitled Liberty Hall
Academy: The Early History of the
Institutions Which Evolved into Washington
and Lee University. It is a model of
archaeological research and an effective
illustration of how archaeology can change
historical assumptions.

**We went to the Liberty Hall site with a
set of questions. We knew something about
the history of the settlement of this region.
But we wanted to know more about
Washington and Lee, and what the school as
it existed in the late eighteenth century could
tell us further about the area at that time.’’

McDaniel leans forward in his chair,
punctuating his narrative with firm, compact
gestures. ‘“We were looking for neat
contrasts with William and Mary. As it

 

turned out, we were as surprised as anyone.”’

What McDaniel and his crew of students
found over the period of four years was
china. True, they found buttons, coins, clay
pipes, and the usual detritus of eighteenth-
century schoolhouses. But the most revealing
discovery was the china—tiny, precious
shards of ceramic material much more
elegant than they had expected to find in a
frontier settlement.

‘‘Our purpose was not to contradict the
historical record, but such contradictions
occasionally occur. What we found was
compelling evidence that the Rockbridge area
was not truly a frontier region in the late
eighteenth century. Nobody’s great-great
grandfather was fighting off Indians at that
time around here. In fact, the evidence
indicates that Lexington was rather highly
civilized, with regular access to Tidewater
Virginia.’’ The brightest evidence is china.

The book reads:

The data resulting from the Liberty
Hall excavation have led to new inter-
pretations which contrast vividly with the
themes of isolation, harshness, crudity,
and danger which dominate traditional
histories. Our analysis indicates that many
of the implements used at Liberty Hall
were imported. We have ceramics from
England and China, gunflints from France,
pipes from Holland, coins from South
America, and metal buttons from England,
to name several examples. In a 757-
square-foot area immediately outside the
Liberty Hall building itself, we uncovered
4,492 ceramic shards. Ninety-nine percent
of the pieces were not of domestic
origin. All our data support the
hypothesis that economic and cultural
isolation did not prevail. On the contrary,
it is evident that there was ready access to
imported goods. The evidence
demonstrated that the perception of a
predominantly self-sufficient frontier
economy in which the only goods were
homespun is fallacious—at least when
applied to Liberty Hall.

In the words ‘‘vividly,’’ *“*dominate,’’
‘*fallacious,’’ and in those precise numbers,
one sees McDaniel; ‘‘we’ll see about that’’
comes all the way around to ‘‘so there.’’

‘‘Now, 1760 was quite different from
1780. There’s plenty of evidence of the
Kerrs Creek Indian Massacre, which

occurred out west of town in the early
1760’s. At the Cunningham House [one of
the McDaniel digs at Kerrs Creek] we’re
finding that 10% of the artifacts are gun-
related as opposed to less than 1% at Liberty
Hall. But the attack was an isolated episode.
It occurred during the French and Indian
War, when the Indians were on manoeuvers
with the French. They all had guns, so none
of the projectile points we’re finding are
arrowheads. Actually, there’s no evidence
that Indians inhabited this area at any time
during the early migration of white settlers.”’

So things were generally tamer back
then. ‘‘It looks that way—primitive, but
tame.’’ And soon polite enough for china.

The Liberty Hall excavation uncovered
much more than china. On and around
Mulberry Hill, the team found the sites of
nine different structures associated with the
Liberty Hall Academy, including the
Rector’s and the Steward’s houses, a smoke
house, stable, and an ice house. In most
cases they worked without above-ground
evidence, relying instead on surveys, test
pits, and the sort of ground sense that
archaeologists develop over time.

During the winter months, McDaniel
researched previous locations of *‘the
institutions which evolved into Washington
and Lee University,’’ following the little
school through scrapbooks, minutes, and
deeds back up the Valley to its earliest
incarnation. The labor uncovered the hard
Scotch-Irish names of W&L’s dimmest
ancestry—Alexander, McNutt, and
Graham—but, alas, no inkwells, buttons, or
styluses. In a maddening coincidence, the
construction of Interstate Highway 81 ripped
through several of the old locations of the
school. So it goes.

Throughout his work, McDaniel relied on
the work of his friend and mentor, James
Leyburn, who had published a study of the
region entitled The Scotch-Irish: A Social
History. Finally, Leyburn wrote a little
introduction to McDaniel’s monograph, the
historian bowing to his prize student just so:
‘meticulous archaeological research . . . has
become a valuable part of the University’s
program.’’

* * *

McDaniel on historians, anthropologists,

and archaeologists: *‘What holds us all

together is that we are students of culture.
We’re all trying to get at the elusive
collection of ideas that people generated long
ago wherever they lived. Archaeologists
focus on material culture because sometimes
that’s all there is. There are a lot of historical
episodes that are not well understood,
primarily because the people were not part of
the documentary record.”’

With such concerns in mind, the federal
and state governments have allocated funds
to support archaeological research. In
Virginia, the funds are administered by the
Williamsburg Historical Preservation Center.
Impressed by McDaniel and his work at
Liberty Hall, the Center invited McDaniel to
set up the Regional Preservation Office for
Western Virginia.

‘‘Actually, we were quite flattered, since
the commission came to us instead of to
UVa. or VPI. Through our office now we do
a lot of contract work. Whenever people find
anything interesting, they contact us. Also,
the federal government requires an
archaeological survey before it approves
funding for a project involving major
excavation. Too bad that was not the case a
few years ago during the construction of
Interstate 81.’

The current archaeological projects at
W2&L are in the ‘‘high hollows’’ of House
Mountain. McDaniel pitches forward in his
chair, rolling up his sleeves. ‘‘Again, we’re
interested in the culture of these people—
why they went there, when they got there,
and why they left. Thus far, over 8,000
acres, we’ve found 76 historic sites, of
which we’ve analyzed 14.

‘It’s really fascinating. Our research
indicates that people began settling the
region in the 1830’s and 40’s—much later
than previously thought. We’re finding a
tremendous influence on the iron mines,
which were very productive in the region
back in the first half of the nineteenth
century. Many of the inhabitants were either
farmers growing food for the miners or
laborers who worked at Lucy Selina Forge or
in the mines themselves. Some of these
mountain people had incredible things—
we’ve found evidence of huge parlor organs
and such.’’ McDaniel laughs. ‘‘Now how
did they get those things up there?’’ One
question leads to another.

 

*k ** *

But one final question. 8,000 acres! How
does John McDaniel come to know such
enormous tracts of land?

McDaniel brings to his avocation, turkey
hunting, the same intensity and relentless
thoroughness that characterizes his
archaeology. He is celebrated by bird hunters
everywhere as the consummate expert on
*‘the king of gamebirds.’’ His text on the
subject, The Turkey Hunter’ s Book (Amwell
Press, 1980), is considered the bible of the
sport. It is written in tight, muscular prose—
as if McDaniel were in a crouch—and is so
exhaustive in its research that it even
includes tables on various shot loads
measured for their efficiency by a
chronograph.

‘“All you need to hunt successfully,’’
McDaniel writes (as if speaking to his spring
seminar), “‘is a license, a modest amount of
time, a modest collection of equipment, a
large measure of determination, and a
willingness to learn.’’

Then he elaborates on determination:

It is nice to talk of how in May one

can hunt turkeys in the morning and fish
for trout in the afternoon; however, if you
expect to kill your gobbler regularly in the
spring you will fish very little. You must
invest full days for success with spring
gobblers. The season may end at | 1 a.m.,
but you have to scout in the afternoon and
practice your calling in the evenings. In
addition, the 2:30 a.m. alarm will dampen
the enthusiasm with which one awaits the
3:30 p.m. hatch of mayflies. . . . If you
kill grouse with your legs, you kill
turkeys with your heart.

Yes, as always, the heart is there, but
one suspects that in McDaniel’s case the
mind may be somewhat divided. Anywhere
in the woods or in a clearing by a creek may
be a faint knob of earth, a grassy swelling in
the ground that suggests the decayed ruin of
some former human habitation. One can
imagine McDaniel coming upon such a
place, squatting down in his digger’s
posture, brushing back the leaves, delicately
fingering through the webbed humus, and
sifting a few loose granules of earth. Then,
under a clod, poking a sharp edge up through
the soil, bright in the sunlight again—
**china, china, china!’’

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Election ’ 82

Journalism Students Battle Deadlines, Technical Troubles to Produce an Election Simulcast

 

Dave Ridlon (left) and Henry Langhorne
prepare for the telecast.

It is 7:50 p.m. Ten minutes to air time.
The third floor of Reid Hall has already
reached the state of chaos in which it will
remain for the next four hours. Organized
chaos, perhaps. But chaos all the same.

Almost two hours have passed since the
polls in Virginia closed on this election day.
The returns are beginning to trickle in over
the Associated Press teletypes in a corner of
the journalism department’s newsroom.

Elsewhere in the newsroom, a half dozen
student reporters and writers are hunched
Over typewriters, organizing their thoughts
and their notes while keeping one eye and
one ear on the two television sets tuned to
national network reports of the day’s
elections.

Down the hall in the Cable Nine
television control room senior Alan Armitage
is trying to get a videotape of a previously
recorded election analysis cued as the 30-
minute election preview show winds down.
The tape fails to produce an image on the
monitor, and senior Dave Ridlon is
temporarily left hanging in that nether world
unique to television known as “‘technical
difficulties.”’

Ridlon stares at his monitor and waits.

 

Seconds pass. Still nothing. When the screen
remains blank despite his hardest glares,
Ridlon offers the foolproof explanation: ‘‘We
seem to be experiencing some technical
problems, but we’ll get to that report in a
minute. Meanwhile... .’’

**Hang in there, Dave,’’ Armitage says
as he fiddles with knobs and dials on the
console in an attempt to get the balky tape
cassette cued.

Over in the WLUR-FM control room
junior Mark Mitchow is asking someone at
the other end of his headset, ‘‘What’s going
on? Where are we going next?”’

Senior Chris Graham, the anchorman this
evening, is checking the set one last time. As
he exits the studio and heads back toward the
newsroom, Graham asks over his shoulder:
‘“You’re not serious about that microphone,
are you? Looks like Edward R. Murrow used
it.”

‘“Who knows, Graham. Maybe it’ll make
you sound like Murrow,”’’ a voice suggests
from one of the rooms along the narrow
hallway.

On Tuesday, November 2, when most
Americans settled down in front of their

BE -

television sets to watch the national networks
report (and dissect) this off-year election,
about 35 Washington and Lee students were
gaining some invaluable experience by
staging an election report of their own.

‘‘Election ’82’’ was broadcast
simultaneously over Cable Nine, the
University’s television station, and WLUR-
FM, the campus radio station.

The four-hour program, which included
live audio reports from several locations in
Lexington and from Richmond, was
organized, produced, directed, reported,
written, and researched entirely by the
students.

Members of the journalism department
faculty were merely interested observers of
the proceedings.

**This,’’ said Robert J. de Maria, who
teaches television production at W&L, ‘“‘is
the kids’ show.”’

So it was.

Steve Warren, a senior journalism major,
was the executive producer of the ambitious
effort. It was Warren who mapped the
overall strategy, recruited and assigned the
various reporters and writers, and even
managed to scrape up $150 from several

Lg e

yg. HOUSE OF

REPRESENTATIVES
Sih Districl rota

&
UNITED STATES SENATE
-Virginia-

Teta!

RICHARD “DICK” DAVIS — gg OLN

LER
evn MAL
PAUL TRIBLE, JR. ent FARISS

precincts Reporting

R08

 

Cable Nine’s graphics included mug shots of
reporters Frank Jackman (above) and Greg Coy.

Lexington businesses in order to have a
telephone installed in Richmond’s John
Marshall Hotel to provide live remotes from
both the Democratic and Republican state
headquarters.

The game plan included an overall anchor
desk manned by Graham. Ridlon reported on
the senatorial campaigns, concentrating on
the Virginia contest between Republican Paul
Trible and Democrat Dick Davis. Senior
Pryse Elam followed the national campaigns.
Norma Anne Chattin, a senior exchange
student from Randolph-Macon College, was
assigned to the Virginia congressional races.

Sophomore Bruce Potter and freshman
Mike Allen shared the role of analyst in the
studio.

Out in the field, seniors Frank Jackman
(Republicans) and Greg Coy (Democrats)
filed telephone reports from Richmond.
Junior Tori Richardson provided videotaped
reports from Lexington’s Democratic
headquarters. Junior Al Roberts and senior
Art Bell phoned in results from the
Rockbridge County Courthouse in
Lexington. Senior Henry Langhorne was
stationed in Buena Vista. And senior Bill
France was in Amherst to provide results of

rd

the House of Delegates race that involved
Lexington.

It is 8:05 p.m. Graham is on the air now,
giving a general rundown of the day’s results
as they have been compiled thus far from the
AP wire. A phone rings in the television
control room. Richmond reporter Jackman is
on the line.

‘*Heok flash extension 261!’’ shouts
Warren.

**I don’t know how to hook flash,”’
comes the response.

Warren rolls his eyes and rushes to the
phone. He puts Jackman on hold
momentarily and writes a message to Graham
that Jackman is waiting with a report.

‘*And now,’’ Graham tells the camera,
‘*we’re going to Richmond where Frank
Jackman is standing by at Republican
headquarters in the John Marshalt Hotel.
Frank, are you there?’’

A pause. Breathing stops for a moment.
Finally, Jackman’s voice comes booming
through the monitors. Everyone breathes
again. Frank is there.

Not too many minutes later Graham will
once again lift the telephone receiver on his

 

Ridlon gets an update from Dave Hayslette (left) as cameraman Mel Cote awaits instructions.

anchor desk and ask whether Coy, the other
Richmond-based reporter, is there. Coy is
not there. Technical problems, of course.

‘*We’re batting .500 on remotes,’’ says
Warren. He is still smiling.

Ronald MacDonald is the head of
Washington and Lee’s journalism
department. Before coming to W&L,
MacDonald was the anchorman at WDBJ-TV
in Roanoke for 13 years. He was anchoring
frantic election night programs before most
of the student-journalists at work in Reid
Hall this night were born. The scene is a
familiar one for MacDonald.

‘*In some ways, the production is very
similar to the first election that I did in
WDB3J in 1956,’’ MacDonald says,
relighting his pipe and surveying the
newsroom activity. ““We had pretty much the
same kinds of problems then that the students
are experiencing tonight, particularly because
of technical limitations.

‘*We are not breaking any new ground in
election coverage with the program that is
being produced here tonight. But that isn’t
the purpose anyway. It’s an extremely
valuable learning experience. The kids on the

9

   

Hig

Producer Warren talks with one of his reporters.

air are feeling the same pressures any on-the-
air reporters feel as they try to meet
deadlines. And those who are clearing the
wire and rewriting copy are learning quite a
lot about the entire process.

“More than anything, this gives them a
chance to get their feet wet and see where it
can go wrong.’’

It is 9:17 p.m. Things are going wrong.
Someone in the television control room lets
loose a string of undeleted expletives. It
seems one of Cable Nine’s two cameras has
chosen this moment to blow a transistor.

‘*Pan right, pan right, pan right, right,
damn it,’’ Armitage yells into his headset as
the cameraman with the operative camera
moves into position to get Graham back on
the screen.

Eventually, after the viewers have been
treated to a long, panoramic view of barren
walls and empty sets, Graham appears again
thanks to the one surviving camera. Tom
Tinsley, ’75, director of technical services at
W&L, enters the studio and takes a quick
look at the failed equipment. Tinsley carts
the camera out of the studio and into his

10

    

‘ii

 

Eric Fife rests a broken leg and edits a videotape report.

workshop for some emergency surgery on the
circuits.

Meanwhile, the program continues with
alterations necessary because of these new
technical difficulties. The problem is
painfully obvious when Graham finds
himself staring at the lone camera and
attempting to look nonchalant for long
periods of time while the remote reporters
file their audio stories.

‘‘T would imagine that this program
sounded a lot better than it looked on TV,”’
Graham admits later that evening. ‘‘On radio
you didn’t have to watch me just sitting there
listening to the telephone reports.

‘“Things were hectic at the outset. The
first half hour was rough. I could hear people
yelling things outside the studio and didn’t
know what was going on. But it got
smoother. Steve Warren did a good job of
keeping things moving, and the individual
reporters filled in so that there were very few
dead spots. We learned about teamwork, if
nothing else.”’

Graham is no stranger to the cameras. In
addition to his work at Cable Nine, he spent

the spring term in 1982 as an intern with a
television station in his hometown of
Charlotte, N.C.

‘“Because of technical capabilities, it’s
much different working on a program like
this for Cable Nine and working on it for a
big—I guess I should say ‘real’—station,”’
Graham says. ‘‘All the same, there is no
substitute for being under those lights.

‘“Even if there were only three people out
there watching tonight, there’s still pressure
to get it right.’’

It is 10:05 p.m. The final returns from
the local House of Delegates race have been
tallied at the Courthouse several blocks
away. Bell and Roberts report the outcome
live via the telephone.

In another room on the third floor, senior
Eric Fife, his recently broken right leg
propped on a chair, is feverishly editing a
videotape delivered by courier from the
Lexington Democratic headquarters where
the Democratic candidate had told reporter
Richardson that she was not ready to
concede. Unfortunately, while the tape is on
the editing machine, the final vote comes in

 

Pryse Elam (left) sports Army fatigues and goes
over details with Bruce Potter.

and the candidate has lost. Oh for a live
mini-cam! Oh for that No. 2 camera!

‘*Somebody needs to tell Tori that it’s
pronounced ‘Car’s Creek,’ not ‘Kerr’s
Creek’ the way it looks,’’ someone is telling
Fife.

‘*This editing machine’s not working
right,’’ says Fife.

Warren appears in the doorway. The
smile is still there. ‘“Take a deep breath and
keep going,’’ Warren says.

Deep breaths all around. On they go.

Placed side by side as they were on the
two television sets in the newsroom, the
Cable Nine version of the election report
looks and sounds terribly amateurish when
compared with the network telecasts. A few
unfamiliar words and names are given new
and unusual pronunciations. Awkward
pauses abound. And while the networks are
displaying the returns with a galaxy of nifty
computer-generated graphics. Cable Nine is
showing hand-scrawled numbers on pre-
printed posters.

Comparison is not only unfair, it misses
the point.

 

 

 

‘*The idea is to teach these kids how to do
it,’’ says de Maria. ‘‘Sure, they may stumble.
Sometimes it doesn’t look very pretty. But,
hey, they’re learning. And what impresses
me is that they’ve done this all on their own.

‘“Less than half the students involved in
the election coverage are working because
they’re going to be graded on the results.

The rest are volunteers. They want to see
what it’s all about.”’

It is 10:50 p.m. At the anchor desk,
Graham is informed that Senator Paul Trible,
a 1971 graduate of the W&L law school, is
preparing to make a victory statement at the
Richmond Republican headquarters.

In Richmond, reporter Jackman has
retreated from his station near the podium.

‘*A photographer who looked as if she
meant business had just elbowed me in the
face,’’ Jackman would explain the next day.
‘‘T thought I’d better move along.”’

Before moving along, Jackman had
alertly tied into the podium microphone.
Graham introduces Jackman who introduces
Trible, and the Cable Nine-WLUR simulcast
achieves its major coup—a live broadcast of

 

Above, Tom Tinsley repairs a camera; below, the TV monitors are centers of attention in the newsroom.

Trible’s speech. Only one of the commercial
TV stations in the Roanoke market is live
from Richmond at that moment. Never mind
that the other station has a picture to go with
the audio. You can’t have everything.

One brief incident during the long, often-
confusing, always exciting evening stands
out and puts all the butchered
pronunciations, all the bad camera angles, all
the technical difficulties in perspective.

Back in the journalism newsroom, one of
the television sets, the color one, is tuned to
NBC; the other set, the black and white, is
on Cable Nine. The pictures are but a few
feet apart.

The black and white set is showing Cable
Nine anchorman Chris Graham, W&L Class
of ’83, sitting patiently behind his desk and
listening to one of his reporters on the
telephone.

The color set is showing NBC co-anchor
Roger Mudd, W&L Class of ’50, doing a
live interview with Massachusetts Senator
Edward Kennedy through that proverbial
‘‘magic of television.”’

Election °82. It is a beginning.

1]

by Jeffery G. Hanna

A Declaration of Independence

Evan J. Kemp SJr., 59, Fights for The Rights of The Disabled

WASHINGTON—When he was 12 years old, doctors told Evan
J. Kemp Jr. that he was suffering from amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, the so-called ‘‘Lou Gehrig’s disease.’’

The doctors told Kemp at that point that he would die within the
next two years. The doctors were wrong; Kemp did not die within
two years.

When he was 14, other doctors diagnosed the disease that was
crippling Kemp as Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy. This time, Kemp
was told that he would die during his late teens or, at best, his early
20s.

Again, the doctors were wrong.

This past May, Evan Kemp celebrated another birthday, his
45th. He is still alive and well and living a productive life. The
emphasis here is on that adjective ‘‘productive.’’ Few lives are any
more productive than Evan Kemp’s has been and is today.

Maybe that has something to do with those dire predictions of
an imminent death made by his doctors 33 years ago. Kemp has
often wondered how being told that he had only two years to live
actually altered or influenced the way he has lived his life.

‘‘T don’t ever have the feeling that being told I would die in two
years affected me,’’ Kemp says, reflecting on that moment of his
life. *‘But I do think that subconsciously it did affect me quite a bit.
I think that it has been to the good in a lot of respects.

‘‘One of the problems our society has today is people expect to
live to be 70 or 80 years old. So they are not willing to take
chances, to do the things they really want, to live each day to the
fullest. I think that is a problem.”’

It is a problem Evan Kemp, Class of 59, has solved.

* * *

The Disability Rights Center is located on the | 1th floor of a
Connecticut Avenue office building in Washington. The floor is
filled with offices manned by various groups with special interests.
Next door is the headquarters for the Association for Women in
Science. Across the hall are five suites occupied by the National
Football League Players’ Association.

The walls of the two rooms that comprise the Disability Rights
Center are covered with posters, all of which leave little doubt what
this place is about. One poster, the one above Evan Kemp’s desk
pictures Franklin D. Roosevelt in a wheelchair. The legend beneath
reads: ‘‘People who didn’t know FDR called him a cripple. People
who knew him called him Mr. President.’’

In the outer reception area, a meeting is in progress. Voices
filter into the inner office, Kemp’s office, and blend with the
sounds of traffic from the busy street |1 floors below.

Then Kemp begins to speak. Suddenly, all the extraneous noise
disappears as he starts telling his story in a voice that is soft and
deep and resonant. After a moment, Kemp excuses himself to fetch
a glass of water. The motor from his wheelchair whirs; the chair’s
rubber wheels squeak on the tile floor as he moves to a nearby sink
and back again.

There is something about a wheelchair, something about a
person whose ability to move through this world is inextricably
bound to such a device, that tends to make those of us who take
walking for granted feel uncomfortable, ill at ease, self-conscious.

12

Kemp readily recognizes such feelings in others. He
understands.

‘‘T have been in a wheelchair for 10 years now,”’ he explains.
‘‘Before I began using a wheelchair, I was deceptively weak. Then
I broke my leg, smashed the tibia and fibula. I had depended on
balance. The broken leg made that impossible.

‘‘People feel self-conscious when they meet someone in a
wheelchair because for about 80 years disabled people were
segregated in our society. We were kept at home. We went to
special schools. A lot of people never saw a disabled person.”’

That is changing. Kemp points to the Education for All
Handicapped Children Act of 1975 as the key to that change.

‘*Children now go to school with disabled kids and are exposed
to people with a whole range of disabilities at an early age,’” Kemp
notes. “‘If you do that, the attitudinal problems drop out of sight
rather quickly.”’

Attitudinal problems. Evan Kemp knows all about attitudinal
problems.

* * *

The disease which has left Evan Kemp disabled was finally
diagnosed correctly as Kugelberg-Welander syndrome. It is quite
rare and quite similar to polio. The difference, says Kemp, is that
while polio does its damage in a short span of time, a month or
two, Kugelberg-Welander syndrome does the same damage over a
space of three years or more.

When he entered Washington and Lee in the fall of 1955, Kemp
had begun using a cane.

‘Until the wheelchair, the cane was the only device I had used.
But I found the cane clumsy because I used both hands for balance.
I used the cane during rush week at W&L and for about a month
afterwards. Then I threw it out,’’ he says.

“Washington and Lee was very good about making
accommodations that I needed, such things as a room on the first
floor in the freshman dorm and permitting me to have a car my
freshman year when that was not permitted all students. Princeton,
where I was also accepted, did not seem as willing to make those
accommodations, so I went to W&L.’’

At Washington and Lee, Kemp majored in history and was a
member of the Executive Committee and house manager for his
fraternity, Sigma Chi. After graduation, he spent two years selling
mutual funds in Europe, fulfilling his ambition to travel abroad. He
returned to Virginia in 1961 and entered law school at the
University of Virginia. After two years at UVa, Kemp ranked at the
top of his class and started looking for a job.

It was then, without warning, that he encountered what he still
considers the most dramatic moment of his life.

‘‘T had 39 job interviews and received 39 rejections. It was
devastating,’’ says Kemp. ‘‘I honestly thought I would have my
pick of jobs. I remembered the saying ‘Hire the Handicapped; It’s
Good Business’ that was prevalent then and I merely assumed that
my good grades and the extra plus that I was handicapped would
assure me of a good job. But it didn’t.”’

What he did gain from that encounter with discrimination in the
job market was an abiding interest in the rights of disabled people.

 

Unsuccessful in his attempts to get a job with a private law
firm, Kemp eventually went to work with the government, joining
the Office of Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service. In
1967, he joined the Security and Exchange Commission, where he
spent 13 years and won several awards for his work.

While with the S.E.C., Kemp provided the Justice Department
with information that won an anti-trust case against the largest
wheelchair manufacturer in the world. He also won an employment
rights lawsuit against the federal government that helped in the
passage of the Part-time Career Employment Act of 1979.

Two years ago, Kemp read Alvin Toffler’s The Third Wave, a
book that describes future society. He was fascinated to discover
that the society Toffler was predicting ‘‘was the society that we in
the disability rights movement have been advocating for the last 10
or 15 years.

‘‘It always amazed me that the disability rights movement had
the laws before it had the movement. And we had the movement
before we had the leadership. It was the reverse of all other
movements. After reading Toffler, I decided that I would like to get
involved with the movement full-time. ”’

So he left his position with the S.E.C. and became director of
the Disability Rights Center, an advocacy group founded in 1976 by
Ralph Nader.

The move was a natural one. After all, Kemp had long before
gained the reputation as one of the most forceful and eloquent

 

 

‘The idea that you can control people’ s lives—
that’ s what I mean by paternalism, that’s what
[fight against. . . . This is the biggest hurdle
we must overcome.’

 

advocates for the rights of disabled people. The new position turned
what had been an avocation into a full-time vocation.

‘It is important that we in this movement try to find a
consensus and approach problems with that consensus in mind.
There is a story that we haven’t gotten across for a variety of
reasons. And it is a very important story.”’

* * *

The disability rights movement is not, Kemp says emphatically,
a civil rights movement. It is something more.

First, you must understand Kemp’s rather unorthodox definition
of a disabled person.

‘‘Anyone who is not 28 years old, 5-foot-10, 160 pounds, male,
WASP, no physical or mental impairments—that is a disabled
person,’’ says Kemp, squinting into the mid-morning sun that is
peeking through the clouds and into one of the office windows.

‘‘Qur society has created this mythical perfect American, this
28-year-old, and we have ordered society to fit that myth.”’

14

To support his argument, Kemp points to such things as health
care and transportation and the Social Security system and
education.

Health care, he argues, is far too cure-oriented, aimed primarily
at that mythical 28-year-old. ‘‘Sprain your ankle playing tennis and
western medicine in this country is great,’’ he says. ‘‘With chronic
health problems, our system breaks down.”’

He refers to this country’s public transportation system, noting
that the two biggest steps in any public facility are the two steps
getting onto a bus and suggesting that while the 28-year-old, the
mythical American, can handle those steps with ease, ‘‘What about
the rest of us?’’ (A footnote: Kemp has personally solved at least
part of the public transportation problem in Washington. He does
not rely on public transportation to get to and from work since
he and his wife, Jane, live in a Georgetown apartment that is nine
minutes, by wheelchair, from his office.)

The education system, Kemp says, has historically produced
workers for assembly line industries. Disabled people did not fit into that
system because “‘to make an assembly line workable for me or for a
blind person simply cost too much money.’’

The Social Security system has perpetuated the myth of the ideal
American by suggesting people could not work productively past
the age of 65.

‘“We have to get away from this mythical ideal American and
realize that a person can work until he is 70 or 75, can work
productively,’’ Kemp says. ‘‘Maybe a person at 65 can cut back
from 40 to 30 hours a week. We have to be more flexible.

‘“As our population continues to age because of medical
advances, more and more of us are deviating from that mythical
model. In the next 50 years, the age group over 65 will grow 20
times faster than the 18 to 65-year-old age group. Roughly a quarter
of our elderly are disabled in some way or another.’

The disability rights movement has persistently been pressing
for adjustments and modification of technology and institutions in
order to make them work for all Americans, not just that mythical
28-year-old ideal American.

‘Opening society will improve the quality of life not only for
the disabled,’’ Kemp argues. “‘It will benefit all people.”’

* * *

Paternalism. When Evan Kemp uses the word, it shrinks to four
letters. A nasty word in his vocabulary. A word that symbolizes the
worst the disabled rights movement must battle.

There is, he explains, a significant difference between helping
the disabled through interdependence and attempting to control the
lives of the disabled by keeping them dependent rather than
permitting them to become independent.

Kemp has never allowed himself to be dependent. He has not
permitted his disability to become a barrier to seizing control of his
life. And he has fought—and continues to fight—against those
attempts, well-meaning though they may seem, to keep disabled
people dependent.

‘‘The idea that you can control people’s lives—that’s what I
mean by paternalism, that’s what I fight against,’’ Kemp says.
‘‘There is a paternalistic attitude that the Jerry Lewis Telethon and
Democrats and social do-gooders have fostered. This is the biggest
hurdle we must overcome.

‘The Democrats have passed the laws that have been significant
for disabled Americans, but I think the Republicans are the ones
who will write the legislation and really integrate disabled people
into society. The Reagan administration is the first that has met
with disabled people and discussed the issues in depth. I know it
seems a strange alignment—disabled people and Reagan
Republicans—but there are striking philosophical similarities: both
have accused big government of stiffling individual initiative, both
advocate that only the truly needy receive welfare while others have

 

ed) tt og te

 

 

 

year he was involved in an

 

 

 

Bruce Damark, ’83, makes use of the wheelchair ramp that was added to
Graham-Lees dormitory during the remodeling of the facility last year.

automobile accident and suffered injuries that have confined him to
a wheelchair.

‘Since I knew the campus and was aware of the barriers that
did exist to someone in a wheelchair, I thought the people at the
University might suggest that I apply elsewhere. I would have
understood their position,’’ Damark says. ‘‘But they told me that
wouldn’t be necessary, that they would do everything they could to
accommodate me.’’

Damark is the first student to attend Washington and Lee while
in a wheelchair. His presence on the campus has been a learning
experience for everyone. |

‘“We are learning from Bruce’s experiences what we must do to
make our campus as accessible as possible,’’ says Frank A.
Parsons, who has been involved in the architectural plans concerned
with making accommodations.

According to Parsons, the University has worked with its
landscape and building architects in the preparation of a 10-year
plan designed to make the campus as free of barriers as possible.

Part of that plan is reflected in the newest campus buildings—
the University Library, Lewis Hall, and the Warner Center, for
instance—which have been made accessible through the architectural
design. In some instances, that design involves the incorporation of
a wheelchair ramp—the primary example is the Commerce School
Building.

Ramps for wheelchairs have been added to existing buildings
such as duPont Hall and Evans Dining Hall.

When the Graham-Lees freshman dormitory was remodeled in
1981, a section was created for disabled students and is accessible
by a ramp leading from the courtyard. Several rooms in the section
are specially designed for students in wheelchairs. The rooms have
appropriate bath facilities as well.

16

   

Charles Mason Photograph

 

 

 

 

A circular ramp was built onto the rear of the Commerce School Building
(formerly McCormick Library) when that building was renovated.

That is not to suggest that Damark’s return to W&L has been
totally devoid of problems. The buildings along the University’s
historic Colonnade are not accessible, or at least limited in their
accessibility.

‘I am a psychology major, which means that many of my
classes are in Tucker Hall,’’ Damark explains. ‘‘And since some of
those classes are laboratories which would not be practical to move,
I have to get a lift up the stairs from fellow students. That is the
biggest inconvenience I face. You learn to work around those kinds
of problems when they do exist.

‘By and large, the people have been accommodating.
Professors will, for instance, agree to come down the stairs in
Tucker for a conference with me when I ask them to.”’

Damark has found the new dormitory facilities in Graham-Lees
to be accommodating, too.

‘“The ramp into Graham-Lees has been done quite well. And
my room there is basically designed well. There are a few very
minor things in my room that were done in such a manner that I
know the architects were not in wheelchairs, but they are things
only someone in a wheelchair would notice,’’ adds Damark,
reflecting Evan Kemp’s sentiments that the only proper way to
design a wheelchair, for instance, is to have it designed by someone
in a wheelchair.

Although Bruce Damark is the most obvious example, he is not
the only student at Washington and Lee who suffers from a
disability. Two students are legally blind while a third suffers a
hearing disability. In all three cases, accommodations have been
made, ranging from providing a note-taker for the student with a
hearing disability, to permitting students with sight disabilities to
register early for classes in order to have their textbooks ordered in
braille or on recordings.

& Gazette

 

 

Reeves Center Gallery
named for Mrs. Gottwald

Washington and Lee has formally
dedicated the gallery area of its new Reeves
Center in honor of Elisabeth Shelton
Gottwald of Richmond, Va.

The Gottwald Gallery provides a
permanent location for the display of
Washington and Lee’s collection of paintings
and watercolors by turn-of-the-century artist
Louise Herreshoff Reeves.

The Reeves Center for Research and
Exhibition of Porcelain and Paintings opened
in September. In addition to the Herreshoff
Collection of Paintings, the Center houses the
University’s Reeves Collection of 18th- and
early 19th-century ceramics and will be used
by Washington and Lee students for
independent study and research.

In naming the gallery area in honor of
Mrs. Gottwald, the University is
acknowledging the steadfast support of Mrs.
Gottwald and her husband, Floyd D.
Gottwald Jr., in the project through which an
1840s residence on the W&L campus was
restored to become the Reeves Center.

‘*We are deeply indebted to the
Gottwalds for their generosity and their
support of the Reeves Center,’’ said James
W. Whitehead, secretary of the University
and director of the Reeves Center. *‘Both
Mr. and Mrs. Gottwald have, for some time,
been keenly interested in both the Reeves
porcelain collection and the Herreshoff
paintings and have been concerned that
proper housing be provided for both
collections. Naming the gallery in honor of
Mrs. Gottwald is one small token of the
University’s appreciation.’

Mr. Gottwald is chairman and chief
executive officer of Ethyl Corporation, a
Richmond-based chemical manufacturing
company.

The Reeves Center is located at one end
of the historic Colonnade at Washington and
Lee. The Center is named in honor of the
late Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves, who
gave the University their collection of more
than 2,000 items of ceramics in 1967. The
Reeves’ gift included the paintings done by
Mrs. Reeves, who signed her early works
with her maiden name, Louise Herreshoff.

 

Members of Southern Comfort serenade Mrs. Elisabeth Shelton Gottwald during ceremonies to dedicate the

 

Reeves Center’ s gallery area in her honor. The paintings of Louise Herreshoff are on permanent display in

the Gottwald Gallery.

 

 

W&L wins Dana award
for annual giving success

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has
awarded Washington and Lee $83,500 under
the foundation’s Alumni Annual Giving
Challenge Grant program.

Washington and Lee was one of five
institutions throughout the country which
were awarded such challenge grants from the
Dana Foundation for the 1981-82 academic
year.

The University qualified for the $83,500
grant by increasing its annual giving in four
different categories—total gifts, the size of
the average gift, gifts from new givers, and
the percentage of alumni participation.

The 1981-82 annual fund at Washington
and Lee exceeded its $1,250,000 goal in
achieving a total of $1,279,983, establishing
a new high in total giving. The fund posted a
9.3% increase over the 1980-81 effort.

‘“We are quite proud of the success of
our annual fund campaign and deeply
appreciate the Dana Foundation’s challenge
grant, which made an extremely successful
annual fund even more successful,’’ said
Washington and Lee President Robert E. R.
Huntley.

The Dana Foundation is a private
foundation chartered in 1950. The foundation
has long been concerned with the broad
fields of health and higher education, thereby
reflecting the interests and concerns of the
founders, Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Dana.

Through a program of grants in higher
education, the foundation seeks to assist
private institutions of recognized quality in
strengthening their independence and their
educational capacity.

This is the second major grant that
Washington and Lee has received from the
Dana Foundation. The first, in 1969, was for
$250,000 and was designated for use in the
renovation project that resulted in a new
home for the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics—the Commerce
School Building—in what was formerly the
undergraduate library building.

Because the 1969 gift was such an
important element in the accomplishment of
that project, the largest teaching area in the
Commerce School Building has been named
the Charles A. Dana Lecture Room.

‘*Everyone connected with Washington
and Lee University should be grateful for the
support the University has received from the
Dana Foundation,’’ said William Ford of
Atlanta, the chairman of the 1981-82 annual

17

 

ee Gazette

fund. ‘‘The Dana Foundation’s challenge
grant was an important component
throughout the annual fund campaign, and
we are indeed fortunate to have received the
grant.’”’

 

 

International House
established at W&L

Washington and Lee has established an
International House on its campus this year.

Located directly across from the main
campus at 218 West Washington Street in
Lexington, the International House is
designed as a residence for both foreign and
American students at W&L and is also
Closely aligned with the activities of the
University’s International Club.

‘‘Our long-range goal is to create a truly
international community,’’ explained Seng
Kah (Henry) Baey, a senior from the
Republic of Singapore.

Baey has been a guiding force behind the
International House concept, first
approaching the University administration
with the idea two years ago.

‘*Professor (Minor) Rogers (associate
professor of religion) had mentioned the idea
of an International House,’’ said Baey. ‘‘The
idea struck me as one that could be
extremely good for us to try.”’

Baey is one of five W&L students—two
of whom are from foreign countries—who
are residing at the International House this
year.

‘*T think it is particularly important to
emphasize that the idea is not to segregate
foreign students from the rest of the
University community. It is quite the
opposite,’’ said Baey. ‘‘The foreign students
who have come to Washington and Lee,
many of them as part of exchange programs,
are most interested in becoming active in all
phases of the University’s life.’’

But Baey hopes that the International
House will eventually become a place where
students, faculty, and members of the
Lexington community will gather to learn
about and discuss different cultures.

‘*We had been hopeful that we could
arrange a building that would accommodate
about a dozen or so residents instead of the
five we have this year,’’ Baey said. ‘But
that may be possible in the future.

‘*Even so, the International House will
provide a location for the members of the
International Club to meet informally and to
hold our gatherings.

‘“The presence of International House

18

 

International House residents are (seated, from left)
Henry Baey and Dan Murphy; (standing, from left)
Luke Chang, Jeff Knapp, and Gunnar Jordan.

ought to be a positive force for the club. Our
goal in the International Club is to provide
educational programs that help promote
better understanding of foreign cultures.
These will take a variety of forms, from
social gatherings to speaker forums.”’

Among the programs that the
International Club at W&L is planning is a
series of special international nights that will
be devoted to a particular part of the world.

‘*We have talked of having a European
night and an Asian night at the International
House,”’ said Baey. ‘“‘We would have food
from that area of the world and discussions
or demonstrations representing some aspect
of the culture.

‘*We also plan to create a speakers’
bureau through which the exchange and
foreign students at W&L would make
themselves available to area schools and
civic groups to discuss their respective
countries and cultures. We have already had
a talk featuring a foreign diplomat. We will
also bring some cultural groups to the
campus and will have our second
International Day.’’

For the 1982-83 academic year,
Washington and Lee has 11 students enrolled
from 11 different foreign countries. The
students represent Japan, the People’s
Republic of China, Sweden, Iceland, the
Netherlands, the Republic of Panama,
Ghana, Hong Kong, Great Britain, the
Republic of Singapore, and Pakistan.

   

Peter Cronin Photograph

H. Robert Huntley, associate dean of
students at Washington and Lee and adviser
to the International Club, said the
establishment of International House
represents an important element in the
University’s continuing efforts to create a
heterogeneity in the student body.

‘*T think one could argue that the active
recruitment and presence of foreign students
at Washington and Lee is a natural extension
of General Lee’s concern that this be a place
where young men of different geographical
backgrounds and ideologies could study
together in harmony and unity,’’ said
Huntley. ‘‘If this made good sense for the
last half of the 19th century, it makes at least
as much sense for the world of the 20th
century.’’

 

 

31 in ‘*‘Who’s Who’’

Thirty-one Washington and Lee
University students—23 undergraduate
seniors and eight third-year law students—
have been included in the 1983 edition of
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges.

Students are elected to ‘‘Who’s Who’’ by
a committee of the University’s student
government. Selection is based on academic
achievement, service to the community,
leadership in extracurricular activities, and
potential for the future.

The Washington and Lee seniors elected
this year are James E. Averett of Atlanta,
Ga.; James L. Baldwin of Dallas, Texas;
Peter A. Baumgaertner of Syosset, N.Y.;
Scott Bond of Wheeling, W.Va.; C. DeWitt
Caruthers of Shreveport, La.; Steven D.
Corbeille of Warrenton, Va.; Michael D.
Drinkwater of Dallas, Texas; D. Mason
Ellerbe of Latta, S.C.; Frank L. Eppes of
Greenville, S.C.; James H. Falk Jr. of Great
Falls, Va.; Harry A. Feuerstein of
Smithtown, N.Y.; Stephen P. Geary of New
Orleans, La.; Newton P. Kendrick of
Norfolk, Va.; F. Eric Nelson Jr. of
Charleston, W.Va.; David P. Ridlon of West.
Hartford, Conn.; Bennett L. Ross of
Huntington, W.Va.; Christopher D. Schram
of Peru, Ind.; Jackson R. Sharman III of
Tuscaloosa, Ala.; Todd C. Smith of
Tallahassee, Fla.; Christopher S. Stokes of
Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; John C. Vlahoplus
of Columbia, S.C.; H. Bowen Woodruff of
Anniston, Ala.; and, Anthony J. Zaccagnini
of Reisterstown, Md.

The third-year W&L law students elected
are: Michael J. Bommarito of Oxford, Mich.;
Gaines H. Cleveland of Gulfport, Miss.;

Deborah H. Combs of Princeton, W.Va.;
David K. Friedfeld of Merrick, N.Y.;
Howard M. Griffith of Salem, Va.; Terry J.
McKenney of East Lansing, Mich.; Pamela
L. Ryan of Groton, N.Y.; and Howard T.
Wall III of Nashville, Tenn.

 

 

Clarke is honored
by Order of the Coif

Charles F. Clarke of Cleveland, Ohio,
38, was awarded honorary membership in
the Order of the Coif during the annual
meeting of the Washington and Lee Law
Council in Lexington earlier this month.

The Order of the Coif is a national law
school honor society which was founded to
encourage legal scholarship and to advance
the ethical standards of the legal profession.

Washington and Lee President Robert
E. R. Huntley made the presentation to
Clarke, who is associated with the Cleveland
law firm of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey.

A former president of the National
Association of Railroad Trial Counsel,
Clarke recently returned from a trip to the
People’s Republic of China, where he joined
approximately 20 other attorneys with special
experience in railroad law.

Clarke, who received his law degree from
the Univeristy of Michigan, has a
particularly diverse trial practice, which has
ranged from corporate litigation to criminal
law.

He is chairman and president of the Free
Medical Clinic of Greater Cleveland. He was
awarded an honorary degree from Cleveland
State University in 1977 and is a fellow of
the American College of Trial Lawyers.

Clarke’s award was made at a dinner
attended by members of the W&L Law
Council.

 

 

Minority Cultural Center
dedicated in October

Washington and Lee’s new Minority
Cultural Center was dedicated in ceremonies
in October.

Located at 10 Lee Avenue, the Minority
Cultural Center is a residence for five
Washington and Lee undergraduate students
but also has office space for both the Student
Association for Black Unity and the Black
American Law Students Association.

The Rev. Hoffman Fisher Brown III, ’77,
was featured speaker for the dedication
ceremonies.

 

Charles F. Clarke

According to John L. White, director of
minority affairs at W&L, the Minority
Cultural Center will serve a variety of
purposes at the University.

‘*The Center’s primary purpose will be to
help promote a sense of community among
the minority students,’’ White said. ‘*There
are a variety of ways in which we hope to
accomplish this.

‘*One element that tends to set our center
apart from similar facilities at other campuses
is the residential aspect. I think this will help

Jo

to create the kind of community atmosphere
that we hope to generate with the Center.’’

White noted that the Center will provide
a location for organizations such as SABU
and BALSA to hold gatherings both of an
educational and social nature.

‘*We are planning to have art shows,
small concerts, informal sessions with
members of the faculty and administration,
and mini-conferences with students from
other schools,’’ White said. ‘‘The Center can
have a very positive influence on academic
life, too, in that we will schedule study
groups during the week.”’

In addition to the dedication ceremonies
and accompanying reception, the Minority
Cultural Center has been used for a reception
for parents during Washington and Lee’s
recent Parents’ Weekend.

White emphasized that the Center is
governed entirely by students and added that
‘‘the goal is certainly not to emulate the
fraternity system but primarily to provide
minority students with certain opportunities,
social and otherwise, that they might not
have under other circumstances.”’

But, he added, ‘‘the Center is not in any
way an attempt to remove the minority
students from the mainstream of campus life. In
fact, the idea is to provide opportunities
through which the students can promote
better understanding with the entire
University community by having certain
events, both formal and informal, that will
be interesting and valuable to all students,
not any one segment of students.’’

The Center is located in what was

Ps

, 77, at Minority Cultural Center dedication

 

19

     

 

 

 

a)

a a phil 7 es with ©

   
  
 

 

       
  
  
 

   
 

 

We are \
“results of STU, oe

entirely by students.
The union began mailing letters. to the

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

the long run, a successful union n helps —
everyone, the students and the Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 

been heard on Saturday nights ever since.

During the earliest days of ‘‘The Anti-
Headache Machine,’’ the program featured a
variety of music along with some discussion
and news. By 1975, all announcements
except for the mandatory station and program
identifications had been eliminated in favor
of four solid hours of music.

The program’s producer is Doug
Harwood, ’74, who originated ‘‘The Anti-
Headache Machine’’ during his junior year
and continued producing it following his
graduation.

According to Harwood, the program’s
primary objective is entertainment, but ‘‘I
hope it helps show that all music, no matter
when or where it is made, has some common
threads.”’

To that end, ‘‘The Anti-Headache
Machine”’ offers a variety of music that often
defies description. For instance, one recent
show included music from the Beatles, J.S.
Bach, an Albanian bagpiper, Duke Ellington,
Hank Williams, and former Supreme Court
Justice Learned Hand.

 

 

Dr. Shannon lectures

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’39,
Commonwealth Professor of English at the
University of Virginia, delivered the first
Shannon-Clark Lecture at Washington and
Lee in October.

Shannon spoke on ‘‘ ‘The Thews of
Anakim’: Postulations of the Superhuman in
Tennyson’s Poetry.”’

 

An internationally recognized authority
on Tennyson, Shannon is the author of
Tennyson and the Reviewers as well as a
number of important articles on the great
Victorian poet, and is co-editor of The
Letters of Alfred Lord Tennyson.

Dr. Shannon inaugurated the Shannon-
Clark Lectures in English, established by an
anonymous gift to support an annual lecture
in English or American literature by a
distinguished visiting scholar. The series
honors the memories of Dr. Shannon’s
father, chairman of the Washington and Lee
English department from 1914 until 1938,
and Harriet Mabel Fishburn Clark,
grandmother of the donor.

 

 

Campus speakers

—Robert Craig, professor of architectural
history at Georgia Tech, examined the
relationship between art and technology as
reflected in the history of architecture when
he delivered a lecture at W&L in October.
Craig’s lecture was entitled ‘‘From Ruskin to
Wright: Architecture and the Two Cultures. ”’

—Dr. Ruben Raimey, head of the
department of landscape architecture at the
University of Virginia, presented a lecture
entitled *‘Frederick Law Olmstead: The
American Tradition in Landscape
Architecture’’ in October.

—Gordon Tullock, University
Distinguished Professor at Virginia Tech and
founder of the Center for Study of Public
Choice, argued for a drastic simplification of

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’39, greets students following his lecture in October.

the law and of the decision-making process
in the courts during a colloquium on
‘‘Objectives of the Law’’ at Washington and
Lee University’s Frances Lewis Law Center
in October.

The colloquium was the latest in a series
designed to stimulate scholarship in changing
areas of the law and to enhance the
intellectual climate at the Washington and
Lee School of Law.

According to Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,
director of the Lewis Law Center, the center
commissions a paper by a leading scholar
and invites that scholar to present and defend
the paper in a two-day colloquium at the Law
Center. Other experts in the field under
discussion are invited to participate along
with members of the W&L faculty.

The presenting scholar is then asked to
rethink the paper in light of the discussions,
explained Kirgis, and then to publish the
revised paper. The colloquia have resulted in
three scholarly articles for the Washington
and Lee Law Review.

Tullock’s primary thesis was that the
law’s objective is to control people’s
behavior. He argued that it cannot do so if
people do not know or understand what the
law is. He further argued that the law has
become so complex that people generally
cannot know what it is.

Moreover, he said that legal procedure is
so cumbersome and time consuming that it
wastes valuable resources when a lawsuit is
brought.

Discussants from outside Washington and
Lee, in addition to Tullock, were Professor
James E. Krier of the UCLA School of Law,
Professor Keith S. Rosenn of the University
of Miami School of Law, and Timothy J.
Muris, director of the Bureau of Consumer

Protection at the Federal Trade Commission.

 

 

In the arts

—An exhibition of sculpture by Rubin
Peacock was on display in the duPont
Gallery in October. A native of Winston-
Salem, N.C., Peacock is one of only a very
few artists who are producing large-scale
bronze sculptures. Peacock currently
maintains studio facilities both in Richmond
and in Aylett, Va., where his foundry is
located.

—An exhibition of prints and paintings
by Richmond artist Ann Chenoweth went
on display in the duPont Gallery on
November |.

Chenoweth is currently a gallery assistant
for the Institute of Contemporary Art at the

21

   

is 5 Maximillian?
Perspectives 0 on

 
   
 

of art history, | an De
in fine arts, gave p od

 
   
  

 

 
  
 

history professor
was a guest lecturer
at ‘the Vigie Mere ur of Fine Arts in.

 
 

The 3 colloguim nmi by the

 

 

 
  

 

ind during the b= politica ems era. His |
lecture was in conjunction with the Virginia

 

n Medievalism: The Architecture of
lite Era.’’ It was p

   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Museum’s exhibition on pre-Raphaelites.
—wWashington and Lee law professor
Andrew W. McThenia Jr. served as reporter-
draftsman of the Model Health Care Consent
Act that the Uniform Law Commissioners
(ULC) completed during its 1982 annual

meeting.

McThenia was one of six members of the
committee that drafted the act.

The ULC is a confederation of state
commissions on uniform laws. The 300
practicing lawyers, judges, and law
professors who are ULC members are
selected by each of the 50 states, the District
of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. They draft
and urge adoption of legislative proposals
designed to solve problems common to all
states.

In the instance of the Model Health Care
Consent Act, the proposal focuses on who
can consent to health care and attempts to
‘“provide guidance for those involved daily
with the problem of how medical decisions
are to be made for an individual who cannot
do so for himself.’’

—Leonard E. Jarrard and David G.
Elmes, professors of psychology, are the
authors of an article published in the October
issue of the Journal of Comparative and
Physiological Psychology.

The article resulted from a two and a half
year research project concerned with the
psychological and physiological processes
underlying the memory of food locations in
laboratory rats.

In their article, Jarrard and Elmes report
that the hippocampus, a small neural cluster
in the brain, is partly responsible for the
accurate retrieval of past experience.
Contrary to the results of earlier research,
Jarrard and Elmes found convincing evidence
for the disruptive effects of providing new
food locations on the retention of previously
learned food sites.

The research project was supported, in
part, by funds granted to Jarrard by the
National Science Foundation.

 

 

NBC’s John Dancy
criticizes ‘Star Concept’

NBC News Correspondent John Dancy
says that the ‘‘necessity to make stars of
reporters is one of the greatest evils that we
face in journalism today.’”’

Dancy, who covers the U.S. Senate for
NBC News, made his observations during a
lecture at Washington and Lee in November.

The lecture was part of Washington and

 

NBC News correspondent John Dancy (center) presented the keynote lecture and also participated in

 

workshops for the Ninth Annual Journalism Ethics Institute in November.

Lee’s ninth annual Journalism Ethics
Institute, a three-day seminar in which
practicing journalists, undergraduate
journalism students, and W&L faculty
members examined ethical issues facing
journalists today.

Dancy replaced NBC correspondent
Douglas Kiker, who had been scheduled to
present the lecture but was unable to appear
because of a conflicting assignment.

Noting that the national television
networks tend to use their White House
correspondents “‘to make them stars,’’ Dancy
observed that the ‘‘star concept’’ is a
relatively new, but extremely dangerous,
phenomenon in journalism.

‘‘The idea of the journalist as the ink-
Stained wretch whose name only rarely got in
the papers is still persistent,’’ Dancy said.
‘But it has changed in the last 10 years as
the networks and the newspapers have found
it necessary to create stars of their reporters,
to have a name who is known, someone
whose telephone calls are returned.

‘It was, after all, the necessity to be a
star that gave the Washington Post ‘Jimmy’s
World,’ a story that won a Pulitzer Prize and
then turned out to be an absolute
fabrication,’ said Dancy, referring to the
controversial Post story in which a reporter
wrote of an eight-year-old drug addict who,
it was later discovered, did not really exist.

‘“The reporter [who wrote ‘‘Jimmy’s
World’’] wanted very much to be a star.
There was great pressure on her at the
Washington Post to be a star, just as there is

that pressure at the networks.’’

Dancy further observed that such a ‘‘star
system’’ has resulted in television reporters
negotiating contracts that ensure their star
Status.

‘“We have contracts being signed by
network correspondents that grant the
correspondents a certain number of
appearances during the week, whether the
reporter has a story or not. There are
contracts being signed that specify certain
types of stories that correspondents will not
have to cover.

‘‘That is ridiculous. It prevents you from
covering the real story. As far as I can tell, it
prepares you for nothing more than covering
cocktail parties in Georgetown. . . . But it is
part of a system that treats news as a product
to be marketed.’”’

Referring to the Washington press corps
of which he is a member, Dancy noted that
‘‘to a large extent the way people see the
President and the government and the job
that they’re doing is through the news media.
Mostly it is through television news because
surveys show that two of three people get the
majority of their news from television.

‘“How are we doing the job that everyone
is expecting us to do? The answer is that we
are not always doing as well as we should
be. Our successes by and large are quiet
ones. Our failues are rather spectacular.’’

The problem, added Dancy, is that in
Washington ‘‘the competitive juices don’t
flow when they should. We don’t do all in
our power to cover a Story.”’

23

 

State Trooper Jerry Hines administers the new
Breathalyzer to Danny Murphy, assistant dean
of students, during a demonstration of the new
machine. At right is third-year law student Pat
Davison, another participant in the demonstration.

A
Unique

Gift

Breathalyzer to Help
Alcohol Awareness
Program

24

Gifts from alumni to their alma maters
wind up taking a variety of forms.

Some gifts are used to build new
buildings. Some are used to endow chairs for
professors. Some are used to establish
scholarships for deserving students.

A recent gift to Washington and Lee
from Andrew H. Baur, ’37, of St. Louis, is
being used in an unusual, if not unique,
fashion.

Baur’s gift has been used to purchase a
Breathalyzer, the testing instrument used by
law enforcement officials to determine a
quantitative analysis of blood alcohol
concentration.

According to H. Robert Huntley,
associate dean of students at W&L, the
University elected to buy a Breathalyzer as
part of its overall efforts to make students
more knowledgeable about alcohol use and
abuse.

“While Mr. Baur did not specify that his
gift be used in this manner, he was
particularly pleased to learn that it has
been,’’ Huntley said.

The first use for the Breathalyzer came
during Alcohol Awareness Week in
November when a member of the Virginia
State Police demonstrated the use of the
Breathalyzer for students from Washington
and Lee, Virginia Military Institute, and the
Lexington community.

‘*Although our plans for the Breathalyzer
are still taking shape, I would guess that

eventually it will be used much of the time in
the Cockpit,’’ Huntley said, referring to a
tavern in the University’s student union that
serves beer. ‘‘We also hope to make it
available for fraternities to use if they are
interested.

‘*Although using the Breathalyzer will be
entirely voluntary, we would hope that
someone who has been drinking would
decide to be tested, if only to become more
aware of how many drinks it actually takes to
reach the level of .10 blood alcohol that
qualifies as driving under the influence.’”’

Huntley said members of the Executive
Committee will be taught how to operate the
testing device.

‘*That way we will always have on our
campus a student who is trained to use the
Breathalyzer,’’ Huntley said.

While admitting that there is liable to be
‘*a certain amount of silliness’’ associated
with the Breathalyzer’s use at first, Huntley
said he is primarily concerned with
increasing the students’ awareness of dangers
associated with alcohol abuse.

‘Thanks to Mr. Baur’s gift, we have
been able to acquire what is a rather
expensive (about $1,200) item,’’ said
Huntley. *‘But if the Breathalyzer makes just
one of our students—or one student just
visiting our campus—decide not to climb
into his car when he would put himself and
others at risk, then it will be well worth the
price.”’

Real men may not eat quiche. But liver is
the big loser when it comes to today’s
college students.

That, at least, is the consensus of the
more than 100 independent college food
service directors who met at Washington and
Lee University in November. And who
should know the eating habits of college
students better than the food service directors
who hear the complaints and have to be
creative with the leftovers?

Washington and Lee was the host for a
three-day regional meeting of the National
Association of College and University Food
Services (NACUFS). The participants
represented colleges and universities from
the states of Virginia, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, New Jersey, New York,
Maryland, West Virginia, North Carolina,
Tennessee, and Mississippi.

Asked to name the favorite and least
favorite entrees of their students, the food
service directors overwhelmingly listed liver
(with or without onions) as the least favorite.

Some other entrees that fail to tickle the
palates of the college diners, according to the
survey at least, are ham and potato au gratin,
beef stew, cooked yellow squash, lamb,
veal, baked fish, meat loaf, stir fried broccoli
with tofu, and “‘garbage burger’’—the recipe

 

LE

 

Chef Charles Dunn p epares the whole smoked salmon

Hold

The
Liver,
Please!!!

for which is among the most closely guarded
secrets at Davidson College.

The favorites? Roast beef placed slightly
ahead of chicken (mostly fried) as the top
choice.

Steak, hamburgers, and pizza were next
on the list of favorites followed, in no
particular order, by sloppy joes, steamed
shrimp, submarine sandwiches, lasagna, and
turkey.

Regionalism was evident in some of the

for the Election ’82 dinner. Cook Billy Payne (left) and food service production manager Don Burch with

the roast suckling pig.

selections. The favorite food of students at
Lebanon Valley (Pa.) College, for instance,
was listed on the survey as ‘‘Pennsylvania
Dutch Chicken Pot Pie.’’

Such regionalism did not prevail
everywhere, though. Take the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis, Md. The favorite
food of the Midshipmen? Mexican dishes.

Quiche, incidentally, failed to make an
appearance on either list.

Nor was quiche on the menu when
Washington and Lee’s food service, directed
by Jerry Darrell, prepared a special Election
"82 dinner for both W&L students and the
participants in the NACUFS conference.
Included on that menu were such items as
roast suckling pig, whole smoked salmon,
beef and kidney pie, salt herring, and spoon
bread—not exactly the sort of dishes you
expect to find prepared in a college dining
hall.

Meanwhile, the food service directors
spent three days on the W&L campus,
discussing such diverse topics as ‘‘Baking
For a Profit’’ and ‘‘Managing Organizational
Stress.”’

Unfortunately (or fortunately perhaps),
‘New and Better Ways of Preparing Liver’’
was not on the agenda—at least not this
time.

Se

uy
ee

 

 

25

sceive program
orms for the 1983

 

communication |

and faculty, the faculty

 

| dispel any anxieties
the academic and
-. Toward these

curriculum, taught

D c fessor of business
rect or of the program,

] _ department, John Evans English, ; academic preparation

 

a year of secondary education remaining,
many students are able to remedy these
problems before enrolling in college.”’

De Vogt emphasizes, however, the
intellectual excitement of Summer Scholars
itself, and this appears to be the major appeal
of the program for the participants. Students
are able to take courses at the college entry
level, in a college environment, and under a
regular college faculty. The W&L difference,
of course, is the individual attention that
each student receives. Each course is limited
to an enrollment of 12, since many faculty
regularly arrange individual conferences with
the students.

Summer Scholars also receive counseling
on academic majors and on college selection.

 

William Hartog, director of admissions at
W&L, along with representatives from
various women’s colleges in the area,
conducts a discussion of college application
procedures and the criteria for college
selection. It should be noted that nearly all of
the young men in Summer Scholars ’81 and
"82 have applied for admission to W&L.

DeVogt expects that Summer Scholars
"83 will increase in enrollment over the 1981
and 1982 sessions. ‘‘The response to the
program from parents, students, and faculty
has been uniformly enthusiastic. Still, we
need all the help we can get in spreading the
word on this outstanding educational
opportunity for young people.”’

 

Institute for Executives

 

W&L’s Institute for Executives is
perhaps the most ambitious of the
University’s special educational ventures. A
two-week program in the humanities, the
Institute is designed to extend to the business
community the University’s humanistic
philosophy and to share its conviction that,
in a healthy society, studies in the humanities
and the concerns of business ultimately
merge.

Now in its third year, the Institute is
steadily gaining recognition among middle
and upper level corporate management as a
highly rewarding, if unusual, executive

development program. The focus of the
program is on business ethics. Through an
extensive reading list involving classic texts
in literature and philosophy as well as
business case studies, the executives and
faculty analyze human values as components
in difficult decisions. Thus the Institute
offers, in effect, a seminar in decision
making, but with a difference.

‘*In today’s stress-filled business
atmosphere,’’ writes E. D. Crack, 1982
participant and manager for Construction
Design Projects for Newport News
Shipbuilding, *‘we allow too little time for
humanistic consideration in decision making.
The thought-provoking guidance by the
W&L staff and the relaxed atmosphere of the
campus itself provided a rare opportunity for
self-awareness and assessment of personal
values. Since the Institute, I.have found that
I now pause to consider more precisely the
alternatives—and the human factors—before
rushing through a decision. This pause may
last only a minute or two, but it does produce
better quality decisions.’”’

Teaching in the Institute again in 1983
will be Professors Louis Hodges, the
Institute’s academic director, Severn Duvall
and Robert Fure from English, Joseph
Goldsten from business administration, Barry
Machado from history, Lad Sessions from
philosophy, and Thomas Williams from
physics. Joining the program as new faculty
will be Larry Boetsch from Spanish and
Thomas Shaffer from the Law School.

The 1983 session is set for June 12-24.

Please fill out this form and mail it to

Robert Fure, Director

(703) 463-9111, Ext. 290

Please send information regarding
[_] Summer Scholars ’83
To:

Help us spread information about these outstanding summer educational programs to
those who may not be familiar with Washington and Lee.

Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Among the program’s texts are Melville’s
Billy Budd, Shakespeare’s Richard II, Plato’s
Apology, Sophocles’ Antigone, H. R.
Niebuhr’s The Responsible Self, and Swift’s
Gulliver's Travels. The program includes
several guest speakers and a variety of
diversionary activities—films,
lecture/demonstrations on art, and informal
talks about subjects of general interest. Two
evenings will be devoted to special

 

presentations by top officers from two
American corporations.

Nearly all of the corporations, banks, and
utilities that have sent management personnel
to the Institute have continued to subscribe to
the program. That alone is testimony to the
Institute’s value and success. Here again,
however, the large first step in an unusual
educational program is to bring word of its
value to an audience unfamiliar with
Washington and Lee. The attached notice is
designed to supplement that effort.

Help Spread the Word

[_] Institute for Executives

 

 

 

Signed

r
!
!
!
é
:
!
1
:
t
!
i
f
!
i
i
‘
I
I
i
!
i
i
i
i
i
i
§
t
i
1
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
'
i
i
t
i
!
i
§
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
a
i
i

 

 

No
—

 

 

Pat Hinely:

Work/Play
Photography

The printing on the slightly over-sized
business card reads: **Work/Play—
Photography, etc.’’ The card belongs to W.
Patrick Hinely, Washington and Lee’s
University photographer. A 1973 graduate of
W&L, Hinely is the latest in a succession of
exceptional photographers that W&L has
been fortunate enough to have employed in
recent years.

Hinely’s work for W&L appears
regularly in University publications, is
circulated widely through the news office,
and has appeared on the cover of
Shenandoah, the University’s literary
journal. If you are a member of any W&L
class since 1974, chances are that Hinely
shot your senior portrait for the Calyx.

But back to an obvious qustion: why
**Work/Play’’? That trademark refers to
another aspect of Hinely’s work. He has
traveled the country, indeed much of North
America, photographing musicians at work.
(Or is it play?)

‘‘T’ve always felt that musicians work
when they play and play when they work,”’
says Hinely. ‘‘I like to think I can do the
Same with a camera.”’

His nine-year odyssey into the world of
musicians and their music has tripped more
than the shutter of Hinely’s camera. Not long
after he began, Hinely started documenting
the performers and their performances with
words as well as photographs, explaining
that it ““‘became expedient in the capitalistic
scheme of things for me to write about what
I was illustrating.”’

Consequently, his record and concert
reviews have accompanied his photographs
in such magazines as down beat, JAZZ, and
Jazz Forum, a European publication. Both
photos and liner note essays have been
published on record covers in the U.S. and
Europe. Earlier this year, Hinely was invited
to write for one of the world’s most
prestigious jazz publications, Tokyo-based
Swing Journal. Most recently, German jazz
impresario and publisher Joachim-Ernst
Berendt, besides quoting from Hinely’s

Wiis,

 

 

 

Peter Cronin Photograph

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ( right) with journalism Professor Bob de Maria, general manager of WLUR-FM
and Cable-9, and O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus of journalism at ceremonies opening the O. W. Riegel
Telecommunications Center in Reid Hall, where many of Hinely’s photographs are on permanent exhibit.

Steve Swallow, bass guitarist and composer, at home in Guilford, Conn., December 1 979; purchased for
publicity use by ECM Records. Hinely wrote a prose piece on Swallow for Europe’s Jazz Forum.

 

 

28

 

 

 

David Earle Johnson, percussionist and composer, in his front yard in
Elloree, S.C., May 1980; published on album jacket by Landslide Records
of Atlanta.

String players at bluegrass festival in Buena Vista, Va., May 1973. This is the earliest photograph of
those printed here.

reviews in the latest edition of The Jazz
Book, Europe’s leading anthology in the
field, has purchased some of Hinely’s
photos for use in his best-selling jazz
calendar.

While writing provides Hinely a different
outlet for his interest in jazz, his first love
remains recording the musicians through the
lens of his Leica. But one complements the
other.

Says Hinely: ‘‘The photographs are better
if I know the people and their music.’’

Hinely has long been an admirer of Henri
Cartier-Bresson, the renowned French
photojournalist. ‘‘Cartier-Bresson has a way
of capturing life itself, poetically and without
pretense,’’ says Hinely, insisting that he,
too, prefers to work from life. “‘It is the only
domain in the visual arts which is exclusively
the camera’s, and only the camera can
document accurately without intruding .. .
as far as I’m concerned, there is no
difference between arrangement and
contrivance, so unless I’m doing a portrait, I
try to be as inconspicious as I can. This can
involve a lot of waiting. You have to
outlast—or outwit—camera-shyness or,
sometimes, just a subject’s simple awareness
that they are being photographed . . . and all
this time, you have to be ready for those
elusive right moments.”’

Though he took up the camera in junior
high school, Hinely’s first real working
experience in photography came during his
undergraduate days at Washington and Lee,
where his work as a staffer for the Calyx
introduced him to many possibilities of the
medium. The 1973 Calyx, of which Hinely
was editor, chronicles a striving for
cleanness and simplicity in establishing a
visual order for the everyday. Its success in
both form and content were far from total,
but, as Hinely says, borrowing an old song
title, ‘‘Blame it on my youth. It’s definitely a
case of ‘had I known then what I know
now,’ but I’ve finally reached the point
where I can live with that book.’’

It was also as a student at W&L that the
‘*Work/Play’’ motif began to take shape. In
this case, Hinely’s involvement with WLUR,
W&L’s radio station, served to pique his
interest in music of all sorts.

Shortly before graduating, Hinely met up
with the chamber-jazz quartet ‘“‘Oregon,”’
whose members became his first professional
subjects. His first year out of school, still
working in Lexington, or as he puts it,
‘“subsisting in bucolic Rockbridge County as
a freelancer,’’ Hinely persuaded the Contact

 

 

29

 

 

Work/Play Photography

Symposium committe to present ‘‘Oregon’’
in Lee Chapel. He hosted the musicians at
his house and photographed them in the
barn. The picture ended up on the cover of
down beat. Things were starting to come
together.

Even then, his work was play.

‘‘It was strictly volunteer work. None of
us had much money, and I didn’t want the
band’s because they were giving me their
music. They also put in good words for me
with a lot of their colleagues in New York,
which got me access to a lot of situations I’d
still be looking for if it weren’t for their
help,’’ Hinely says in retrospect. ‘‘I was
uncovering a sense of vocation with the
camera at the same time these guys were
showing me what musicians are all about.

It turned out to be a very happy
coincidence.”’

Hinely went to work for W&L in 1974,
and his first commissioned assignment in the
musical field came when he designed, wrote
and illustrated a promotional booklet for
‘*Oregon’’ in 1975.

But his biggest single break came in
1977, after Hinely had left W&L to return to
his native Florida. He was invited to
photograph operatic composer Gian Carlo
Menotti’s newly-begun Spoleto Festival USA
in Charleston, S.C. He has gone back to
Spoleto every year since.

‘“The only musicians I’d photographed
until then were either students, jazz players
or bluegrass musicians,’’ he says. ‘‘It was
reaching for the outside chance, using those
images as credentials to get hired for a
primarily classical music gig.

‘*Trying to find work in Florida, I had
grown accustomed to a predictable run-
around. When I took my work to
newspapers, the people would say “These are
great, but you don’t have any football action
or car wrecks. You ought to show in
galleries.’ Then I’d go to galleries, where
they said ‘Gee, these are interesting, but you
don’t have any still lifes or nudes. You ought
to be in photojournalism.’ It was a pleasant
surprise to have the Spoleto people figure out
that I could transpose my experience from
one subject to another.’”’

For now, at least, Hinely enjoys his
‘*quasi-full-time’’ arrangement with his alma
mater, to which he returned in 1980. He
notes that it allows him sufficiently frequent
absences to pursue his personal work, which,
besides musicians, includes an ongoing and
yet-unpublished series of Floridian

 

 

 

Paula Robison and Sam Sanders of the Spoleto Festival Chamber Company, Charleston, S.C., May 1979.
The photo is unstaged. The performers rehearsed in masks so they could learn to read the music with their
masks on, which is how they performed it in Charleston’s Dock Street Theater.

 

Zé

Spoleto Festival Brass Ensemble members waiting for stage call, College
of Charleston Alumni Hall, May 1978; published on the cover of
Shenandoah, W&L’s literary magazine.

 

 

30

 

 

photographs. He says both projects remain
more a matter of love than money. ‘‘I may
never do them full time, unless I can be sure
of keeping free from the pressures of having
to do that work just for the money. All work
and no play just isn’t for me.”’

Hinely holds O. W. Riegel, professor
emeritus of journalism at W&L, in high
esteem. ‘‘What Tom Riegel taught me was
more about how to think than how to write,”’
Hinely says. *‘He was always pushing us to
take on a little bit more than we already felt
comfortable with, in any subject. I guess I’ve
applied that to the camera more than the
typewriter.’’

That admiration for Riegel, especially his
role in developing broadcasting at W&L, led
Hinely to jump at journalism professor R. J.
de Maria’s invitation to select a collection of
his musicians photographs for the foyers of
the O. W. Riegel Telecommunications
Center in Reid Hall. Unlike many of his
fellow photographers, Hinely has not shown
his work widely in galleries. ‘‘Not that I
didn’t try for a while,’’ he says, ‘‘but over
the years, I’ve noticed that I get a lot more
satisfaction from seeing my work published
and circulated than from just seeing it
hanging on a wall. I guess it comes down to
/ 7 : giving more credence to compliments from
Sonny Rollins at soundcheck, Shoctor Theatre, Edmonton, Alberta, August the musicians themselves and from everyday
/ 98 l; shot for Swing Journal of Tokyo, on commission for coverage of Jazz folks than from the type of people who grant
City Destieas f4nage § \argegs, artists no credence outside of the gallery
context. And making those huge prints is an
exhausting process. But for Tom Riegel, I
would do it.”’

The 24 photos on exhibition are among
Hinely’s favorites: five have been published
on album covers while seven others have
appeared in magazines. There are a few
portraits, but the rest are all shots of
musicians at—what else?—work/play.

His role as chronicler, commentator and
sometimes satirist point up Hinely’s
paradoxical quest to document the visible
while trying to keep himself invisible,
perhaps best summarized by an incident
involving pianist Chick Corea. During the
spring of 1982, Hinely spent two days
photographing recording sessions with
Corea. Several months later at a jazz festival
in Canada, Hinely introduced himself to
Corea and mentioned those two days of
shooting the musician at work. Corea was
nonplussed, telling Hinely, ‘“‘Funny, I don’t
remember your taking any pictures.’’

To which Hinely flashed a broad smile of
success and replied: ‘‘Good. That’s exactly
how I like to work.’’

 

¥

Beedle White, lutenist, Rockbridge County, October 1978. This is one of two ‘‘accidental photos’’ ; the
composition was planned, but not the sunbeam.

 

 

3]

Chapter News

CLEVELAND. The W&L Generals and
the Virginia Wahoos went at it tooth and nail
on Aug. 21 in the chapter’s annual softball
game at the University School in Shaker
Heights. A large crowd of spectators
watched the game which went into extra
innings, with the Wahoos finally winning
21-20. The chapter officers are now planning
the annual Christmas luncheon at the Union
Club.

SAN FRANCISCO BAY. Bill Hartog,
director of admissions at Washington and
Lee, conducted the program at a fall
reception for alumni and guests on Sept. 20
at Paoli’s in San Francisco. Hartog was on a
fall recruiting trip to the West Coast and had
invited representatives of several high
schools in the Bay area. His report on the
Status of admissions at the University as well
as on recruiting efforts in the area was
eagerly received. Nat Baker, ’67, chapter
president, made the arrangements. He issued
a warm welcome to all in attendance and
announced plans for a Christmas party on
Dec. 9.

CHICAGO. Dr. I. Taylor Sanders,
professor of history and University historian,

32

  
  

CLEVELAND—Shown after a tough softball battle with the Virginia Wahoos
are (front row, L-R) Jim Dickinson, ’70; Howard Busse, 65; Kevin Marie, ’85:
Tom Friedman, ’58; Brian Ogler, ’86; Tom Goss, ’80; (back row) Bob
Silverman, ’73; unidentified player; Gary Okin, ’74; Charlie White, ’72; Dave
Donahey, ’82; Jim Bonebroke, ’54; Bill Smith, ’75; Bob Donahey, ’83.

SAN FRANCISCO BAY—At fall reception held at Paoli’ s are Tom Green, ’64,
Jim French, ’64, Emmett MacCorkle, ’26, Trustee Jerry South, ’54.

 

Philpott, ’45.

 

was a special guest at the chapter’s dinner
meeting on Oct. 18. He gave an excellent
talk on the visions of Washington and Lee as
seen through the eyes of many of its past
presidents. He also told of the excitement on
campus generated by the naming of Dr. John

D. Wilson as the new president of W&L. Dr.

Sanders’ talk was enthusiastically received.
He was substituting for Dr. William A.
Jenks, ’39, head of the history department,
who was unable to attend because of an
accident suffered by his wife, Jane. Stanley
A. Walton, chapter president, presided and
welcomed everyone, especially several
guidance counselors from area high schools.
He talked about future plans of the chapter,
including a possible early visit by President
Wilson. He recognized Tim Haley, ’73, for
his effective service in the area of student
recruitment. William C. Washburn, °40,
alumni secretary, was present and made brief
remarks about the freshman class and told
about the exciting and successful summer
programs on campus.

PIEDMONT. The chapter welcomed
President and Mrs. Huntley back to his
hometown of Winston-Salem at a meeting in
their honor on Oct. 19. The reception was

PIEDMONT—President Robert E. R. Huntley addressing Piedmont C hapter
at dinner held in his honor at Sawtooth Center, Winston-Salem, N.C. Also
seated at head table are Chapter President John Cocklereece,’76,’79L: Mrs.
Huntley; Trustee and Mrs. C. Royce Hough, ’59; Trustee and Mrs. J. Alvin

PIEDMONT—Alumni and friends gathered at Sawtooth Center reception to
honor President and Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley.

  
   

 

    

held in a gallery of the Sawtooth Center in
Winston Square. A catered dinner in an
adjoining meeting room followed. The
distinctive architecture and decorative arts of
the center provided a spacious, attractive site
for the large number of alumni and friends
who gathered to honor the Huntleys. Among
the guests were Trustee and Mrs. Alvin
Philpott, °45, of Lexington, N.C., and
Alumni Board Director and Mrs. William
Latture, °49, of Greensboro. University
Trustee C. Royce Hough, 59, of Winston-
Salem introduced President Huntley, paying
tribute to the President for his outstanding
service to Washington and Lee during his
tenure. President Huntley spoke of the
challenges that lie ahead for the University
and of his great confidence in Dr. John D.
Wilson as his successor. He received a
standing ovation at the end of his remarks.
Chapter President John Cocklereece, 76,
*79L, directed the program and offered a
special note of thanks to Thorns Craven, ’62,
for his assistance in planning the meeting,
especially in recommending the site and the
caterer. Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary, spoke briefly about on-campus
alumni programs.

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’ 14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

A. N. Hill, ’52

1931

PAUL A. Hornor, aconsulting engineer with Hornor
Brothers Engineers in Clarksburg, W.Va., was
recently presented a plaque at a dinner given in his
honor by the Benedum Airport Authority in recogni-
tion of his 45 years of continuous service as the
airport engineer.

1933

JUDGE JOSEPH M. INGRAM retired after 40 years on
the bench of the 11th Judicial Circuit of Tennessee.
He practiced law for eight years in Columbia, Tenn..,
before being elected to the bench in 1942. Judge
Ingram served five full eight-year terms prior to his
retirement in Culleoka, Tenn.

1940
MARRIAGE: CHar-eEs C. Curt and Jacqueline G.
Campesino on Sept. 11, 1982, in Saint Simons Island,
Ga. Curl is a retired airlines pilot. The couple will
live in Hialeah, Fla.

194]

HUGH G. ASHCRAFT JR. addressed a business ethics
class at Lenoir Rhyne College on Oct. 19 as part of a
program using members of the college’s development
board as classroom speakers. He is the first member
of the Lenoir Rhyne College developemt board to
participate in the program designed to utilize mem-
bers’ talents and experiences in an educational setting.
Ashcraft lives in Charlotte, N.C., and is chairman of
the board of Harris-Teeter Super Markets Inc.

1942

HERBERT M. WEED, retired after 36 years with Ana-
conda Co. and 16 years as an officer, has now joined
United Park City Mines Co. of Salt Lake City, Utah,
and is busy acquiring the Cimarron Corp. of Dallas,
an oil and gas producer. The resulting organization
will be known as Cimarron Corporation and will be
listed on the Néw York Stock Exchange. United Park
City Mines is engaged in lead, zinc and silver mining
and has extensive real estate holdings at the ski resort
of Park City, Utah.

1952

In January 1975 HAROLDN. HILL was appointed as a
justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia by Governor
Jimmy Carter. He was recently elected Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court of Georgia and began serving in
that capacity Nov. 1, 1982. Hill received his law
degree from Emory University and practiced law in
Atlanta until being named to the bench in 1975. He is
a former member of the Legal Education and Admis-
sion Committee of the State Bar of Georgia and
served as chairman in 1974. Hill also continues as an
adjunct professor of law at Emory. He is amember of
the American Bar and the Georgia Bar.

1953

JOHN D. HEARD has been appointed vice president of

33

 

a
_

ILLIAM C. WASHBURN IR. has

 

on

 

 

 

   

71

H. D. LeTourneau Jr.,

dent of First & Merchants National Bank, joined
United Virginia Bank-Lynchburg in August 1982.
He has recently been promoted to the position of
assistant vice president. Fauber is a graduate of the
National Commercial Lending School at the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma and is presently enrolled in the
Stonier Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers Uni-
versity. He and his wife, Beth, have two daughters.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER has been made a partner of
Arthur Andersen and Co. He is with the Washington
office of the accounting firm.

The Rev. JOHN E. MILLER was awarded his Ph.D.
degree in systematic theology by Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond during May 1982. He is
assistant rector of St. Marys Episcopal Church in
Goochland, Va., and an adjunct instructor in religion
at the University of Richmond.

ALAN C. OAKES has been appointed director of fiscal
planning for the international marketing division of
Mobil Oil Corp.

197]

The REV. JOHN D. COPENHAVER JR. and his wife,
Marsha A. Childs, are co-directors of the Harrison-
burg, Va., area Wesley Foundation. This campus
ministry of the United Methodist Church serves James
Madison University, Bridgewater and Eastern
Mennonite Colleges and Blue Ridge Community
College. Copenhaver completed the graduate program
in Christian spiritual guidance at Shalem Institute for
Spiritual Formation in Washington and earned an
M.A. degree in religion and culture from Catholic
University.

G. CARR GARNETT is the costume designer for the
CBS daytime television serial As the World Turns.

North Carolina National Bank in Charlotte promoted
Harry D. LETOURNEAU JR. to senior vice president.
He joined NCNB in 1973 after earning an M.B.A.
degree from the University of Virginia. LeTourneau
became a vice president in 1979 and head of the cash
management department in 1981. He and his wife,
Terry, have two children.

ALVA M. LUMPKIN III is senior development engineer
for Electromagnetic Sciences Inc. in Atlanta, Ga.

1973
BIRTH: The REv. and Mrs. FREDERICK E. ROBERTS,
a son, Joseph Frederick, on Oct. 9, 1982. The young
man joins an older brother, James Stewart. Roberts is
pastor of the United Methodist Church in Hatteras,
N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RALPH H. SmiITH II, a second
son, William Patterson, on Sept. 9, 1982. Smith is a

practicing attorney in Birmingham, Ala.

T. HAL CLARKE JR. (See 1976.)

 

 

FANCY DRESS TICKETS AVAILABLE

The Student Activities Board at Washington and Lee cordially invites all
alumni to the 76th Fancy Dress Ball on March 4, 1983, in the Warner
Athletic Center. Tickets are $30 per couple and can be ordered by writing:
Fancy Dress Tickets, Student Activities Board, University Center, Wash-
ington and Lee University, Lexington, Va. 24450. SAB officials urge that
any alumni planning to attend make hotel reservations as soon as possible.

 

 

E. ROBERT GIAMMITTORIO (See 1969.)

1974

A. J. ALEXIS GELINAS became a partner in the New
York law firm of Brown, Wood, Ivey, Mitchell and
Petty. He earned an LL.M. degree in taxation from
New York University in 1978 and specializes in fed-
eral income tax law. Gelinas, his wife, Linda, also an
attorney, and 2-year-old son, Paul, live in Brooklyn.

WILLIAM B. HILL Jr. has been promoted to senior
assistant attorney general in the State of Georgias
Department of Law and has been assigned as the
director of the criminal division. He is the youngest
man to hold the rank of division director in the depart-
ments history. He joined the State Law Department
in June 1977 and has been an assistant division direc-
tor since January 1982. Hill resides in Atlanta with
his wife, Melba, and their daughter.

HANNES F. VAN WAGENBERG is working in the
foreign institutional investment department of Brown
Brothers Harriman and Co. in New York. He had
been with the international division of Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Co.

1975

JOHN R. EMBREE, formerly with the United States
Tennis Association in New York City, has now be-
come director of tennis at the Rivercenter Tennis
Club in New Orleans. The club is owned and operated
by the New Orleans Hilton Hotel and Towers and
includes an outstanding tennis facility as well as other
sports facilities.

BENJAMIN M. SHERMAN, sports information director
at the University of Delaware, has also been named

 
   
  

 

 

      

pe

 

 

 

Z4 et
I bi
BV ii AtFG3 Lr, oy) i,

A ae S ry ae; M7,

ord a ara. 4,
A ep at WA oe
i YAH
B y; TY WY Vj

 
   

    
   
  

  

4 y 4 js
oy i;

ee TD

fy J

a
YL,
f} WY

J id aN f , WIL
Z, AY! 7 INGA A ALE SA AA
UL Vif AVIS. Cee!

publicity director of the East Coast Conference. The
ECC is composed of American University, Bucknell,
Delaware, Drexel, Hofstra, Lafayette, LaSalle, Le-
high, Rider and Towson State. Sherman has been at
Delaware since 1976 after serving as sports editor of
the Edina Sun newspaper in Minnesota.

1976
BIRTH: T. Hat Clarke Jr. and NAN ROBERTSON
 CLARKE, a son, Charles DeSaussure, on Aug. 18,
1982, in Atlanta, Ga. The young man joins an older 
sister and brother. He is a practicing attorney with the 
Atlanta firm of Mitchell, Clarke, Pate, Anderson & 
Wimberly.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Paut O. CLay Jr., twin
 daughters, Katherine Paige and Rachael Evelyn, on 
Sept. 21, 1982. Clay is a partner in the Fayetteville,
 W.Va., law firm of Conrad and Clay. He and his 
wife, Linda, also have two sons, Christopher 3 and 
Nathan 2.

 ERNEST (BUD) LOWELL (See Gregory Scott Thomas
1977.)

1977 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BENJAMIN J. BONAVENTURA, 
a son, Benjamin Joseph Jr., on July 6, 1982. Bona-
ventura is dean of students and baseball coach a t
Christchurch School in Christchurch, Va. In May 
1982 his baseball team won the conference cham-
pionship and he earned a masters degree in educa-
tional administration from the College of William
and Mary.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES H. NEwTon, a daugh-
ter, Susan Elizabeth, on April 17, 1982, in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

PAUL B. Burns graduated from the University of
Southern California Law Center in May 1982. He is 
an associate with the firm of Fox and Fox in Newark,
N.J. Burns also is working on an LL.M. degree in
taxation at New York University.

ROGER P. RYDELL has been elected vice president for 
public relations of Trailways Inc. in Dallas. He and
his wife live in Carrollton, Texas.

GREGORY Scott THOMAS and a fellow W&L alum-
nus, ERNEST (BUD) LOWELL, 76, are two-thirds of
the three-member news staff for WXXI radio in
Rochester, N. Y., which recently won 10 awards for
 news coverage from the state Associated Press
Broadcasters Association. WXXI was the first FM
 station in New York State to receive the associations 
Grand Prize, awarded to a TV or radio station for
outstanding achievement. Thomas is news director
for WXXI while Lowell is one of the stations two
 producer-reporters. Other awards that the station re-
ceived included first-place awards for best spot news
coverage, best local documentary, best news com-
mentary, and best feature. Thomas has been with
WXXI for four years, Lowell for three.

3S

 

 

can College « of ‘Sur-

sso of urolog ae
n University 3 Mesicel: Cnet Ferguson was a
ltant ir .

teas

a ee

en

 

 

 

 

 

 

MARK THE DATES NOW

 

ANNIVERSARY CLASS REUNIONS
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

MAY 12, 13, and 14, 1983

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes of
1933, 1938, 1943, 1948, 1953, 1958,
1963, 1968, 1973, 1978

Plan Now To Attend

 

: . Second Class Postage Paid
The Alumni Magazine of At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY | And Additional Mailing Offices
(USPS 667-040) :

Lexington, Virginia 24450

037556

T BALFOUR

 

 

=

211 RALSTON RD
23229

RICHMOND VA

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $100.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:
LEE CHAPEL

WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

