 

SS
Sf

 

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 56, Number 5, September 1981

William C. Washburn, ’40 ...............0..ccccc cece cece eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ..................cccccececee eee Associate Editor
Robert P. Fure .................c.0ccccceceeeeeeeeees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter 2.00... ccc cccceeeeeeee ees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ...............ccecceeeeeeees Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Institute for Executives ...............c.cccceccceeeeeeeeeee 1
‘‘Ping-Pong Education’’ .................ccccceeeeeeea eee 6
The Photographs of Nancy Spencer ..................... 9
WL Gazette: .. 00.60. .cc ccc cececccesscscveeddei nese sibneeess 15
Chapter N@W8. 22... .......0:eciesceceedsesstisdecsssfensiaaes 20
1980-81 Annual Fund ..................0.ccceceeceeeeeees 24
Class ‘Notes vi-.ccca0e.cie i Piieses e 26
In Memoriam... o6...06. 0000. leet cee is os Sceptre es 34
Supply Store Gifts ..............ccc ccc cccceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 35

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional Offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
President

JOHN H. McCormack Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
Vice President

W. DONALD Bain, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
| Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.

OwEN H. Harper, ’59, Pasadena, Calif. —
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
G. RUSSELL Lapp, ’57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LaTTuRE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
J. WILLIAM McCL.inTocx III, 53, Tunica, Miss.
WILLIAM C. NorMAN Jr., 756, Crossett, Ark.
S. MAYNARD TURK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.

CV

v

ON THE COVER: Scenes from a marriage of business and
the humanities. W&L’s Institute for Executives brought 19
corporate executives and several W&L faculty members
together for two weeks of reading and discussion in June.
Beyond such classic authors as Shakespeare, Plato, and
Thoreau, the participants examined the issues and value
conflicts involved in the daily life of the modern business
executives. Photos by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

 

 

 

The lecture: an important component of the Institute for Executives

 

REALIGNING THE BOTTOM LINE

W&L’s New Summer Institute for Executives: Issues in Humanities and Business

by Robert P. Fure

‘“We would have fired the guy,’’ says Joe Vengrouski,
corporate personnel director for Gulf States Paper
Corporation. ‘‘But now I’m wondering, would it have been
wise to dump the best man on the payroll?’’

Vengrouski and several other corporate executives are
pondering Antony’s dilemma in Shakespeare’s Antony and
Cleopatra. Mark Antony, wracked by a catastrophic mid-life
crisis, is torn between his love for Cleopatra and his
responsibilities as triumvir of the Roman Empire. Stirred by
Shakespeare’s compelling drama, the 19 businessmen who
constitute the Institute for Executives class of ’81 are drawn
into the deeper human dimensions of Antony’s torturous
predicament.

‘“Maybe he could have been reassigned. Still, that might
have set a dangerous precedent.”’

Mike Turin, world trade systems director for IBM, muses,
‘‘T’ve seen more men than I care to remember destroy brilliant
careers, not to mention themselves, over a woman. It’s pathetic.
But Antony is in a touchy situation, no doubt about it. Either
way he loses. After all, what is power without love?’’

It is the fourth day of the Institute’s two-week program.
The executives are using ‘‘but,’’ ‘‘still,’’ and ‘‘however’’
more frequently now as they explore the rich ambiguities of
Shakespeare, Melville, and Plato. They are for a time beyond

 

Decisions, decisions, decisions

 

te

Post-softball camaraderie

the ‘‘either-or’’ world of snap judgments. Ahead of them wait
Sophocles, Thoreau, Kierkegaard, Frost, Faulkner, and
Freud. The arena of decision making broadens as the Institute
extends its survey of classic texts in Western literature and
philosophy.

Washington and Lee’s inaugural Institute for Executives,

 

 

The simplest rationale of the Institute was

that everyone, regardless of his or her
profession (or, in this case, especially because
of his or her profession), should read a few
good books.

 

held June 14-27, brought to the campus curious and initially
Skeptical corporate management for an intensive reading
program in the humanities. They came from as far away as
Colorado, Massachusetts, and-Florida, and from companies
as diverse as IBM, AT&T, Best Products, Vepco, Philip
Morris, and the Roanoke Times & World-News.

Standing about in the chilly foyer of McCormick Hall on
the day of registration were the program’s faculty: Louis
Hodges, director of the University’s Program in Applied
Ethics; Severn Duvall, professor of English; W. Lad
Sessions, associate professor of philosophy; and, myself.
Later in the session we were joined by Professors Sidney
Coulling, (English), Clark Mollenhoff (journalism), Carren
Kaston (English), William Rasmussen (art), Rob Stewart
(music), and President Robert E. R. Huntley, who served as
guest lecturers.

The simplest rationale of the Institute was that everyone,
regardless of his or her profession (or, in this case, especially
because of his or her profession), should read a few good
books.

Though the Institute’s two-week program of reading and

2

 

Studying the texts

discussion focused primarily on literary and philosophical
texts, part of each day was set aside for business case studies.
Such issues as conflicts of interest, corporate misconduct and
whistleblowing, and union-management frictions brought the
faculty into the nitty-gritty province of the Bottom Line.

No English professor is comfortable explicating little
narratives of cost analysis. But more often than not the
Institute’s major texts provoked discussions that produced
surprising and penetrating insights into the moral and human
questions underlying many corporate problems. As Robert
Huntley, speaking from his position as both University
president and board member of several corporations,
observed during one of the Institute’s early sessions: ‘‘The
humanities can bring the ages to bear on the context of the
businessman, whose world is constantly changing.”’

Kierkegaard’s analysis of religious faith in Fear and
Trembling, for example, enabled one executive concerned
with the cultural interface of multinational corporations to
gain a Clearer sense of the bewildering values of Arabic
economics: ‘‘If, as Kierkegaard says, mankind’s highest
passion is to embrace the incomprehensible, then I can begin
to understand the strange obsessions of the sheiks.”’

 

The effective executive must have the insight,
imagination, and wisdom—the larger vision—
‘‘to anticipate these human problems before
they become crises and to discern ethical
principles for solving them.’’

 

A personnel manager of another company found in
Thoreau’s Civil Disobedience an eloquent expression of the
independent mind: ‘‘I can’t quite agree with Thoreau, but his
elaboration of the non-corporate mentality certainly helps to
explain the opposition. It is always useful to consider

a eae aes , a

 

 

From Plato to Faulkner: an intensive reading program

different perspectives . . . At least I don’t think I agree with
Thoreau.’”’

The subject of W&L’s first Institute for Executives was,
neatly, the same as its goal: human decision. In the planning
Stages for over a year, the Institute had been designed by its
faculty and administration to extend to the business
community its humanistic philosophy and to share its

 

Such issues as conflicts of interest, corporate
misconduct and whistleblowing, and union-
management frictions brought the faculty into
the nitty-gritty province of the Bottom Line.

 

conviction that, in a healthy society, studies in the humanities
and the concerns of business ultimately merge.

Serving as advisers for the project were Richard T. De
George, University Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at
the University of Kansas, brought here as a consultant by a
National Endowment for the Humanities grant; Andrew
Lewis, president of Best Products, Inc.; Ross Millhiser, vice
chairman of the board of Philip Morris, Inc.; and, T. Justin
Moore, chairman of the board of Virginia Electric and Power
Co.

As the point of connection between the humanities and
business, the Institute planning committee selected ethical
decision making as the program’s focus: ‘‘Corporate
executives face the task of dealing with problems that involve
competing goals, diverse value judgments, and complex
ethical issues, problems that deal not so much with products
as with people.’’ In formulating the program’s rationale, the
Institute planners understood that, as an executive moves up
the corporate ladder, he encounters the value conflicts and
ethical quandaries that daily confront decision makers at

 

higher levels of corporate management. The effective |
executive must have the insight, imagination, and wisdom—
the larger vision—‘‘to anticipate these human problems
before they become crises and to discern ethical principles for
solving them.’’

How does he gain this wisdom? Partly through on-the-job
experience, of course, but also off the job, through the
experience of the timeless products of men’s minds: good
books. Such a rationale implies that a successful corporate
leader must be both a reader and something of a casuist.

True enough. “‘It’s like Captain Vere,’’ observed Joel
Anderson, president and chief executive officer of South
Georgia Natural Gas. Vere is the perplexed protagonist of
Melville’s Billy Budd, the Institute’s opening text. After the
fatal conflict between Billy Budd and Claggart, Captain Vere
alone must measure right against wrong, anchor his judgment
in the context of human history, and then guide his men _
through their own ambivalent arbitration. ‘‘Vere could have
chosen to see the dilemma simply as a personality conflict—
indeed, as it first seemed to me,’’ Anderson confessed. *“But

 

If, as Kierkegaard says, mankind’ s highest
passion is to embrace the incomprehensible,
then I can begin to understand the strange
obsessions of the sheiks.’

 

it’s much more than that. It’s a conflict of values, a tragic
one.”’

This is the kind of sensitivity to ethical issues and
conflicting values that the Institute sought to cultivate in its
participants. While it did not presume to dictate formulae for
moral problem-solving, the Institute program offered text
after text that present men and women—from Abraham to
Antigone—in the act of complex human decision.

 

   

The basic bull session

What the participants learned from the experience was
finally what they could teach themselves and each other:
‘‘The Institute was very helpful to me in my efforts to acquire
a better understanding of myself and my values, as well as a
clear sense of value choices and conflicts,’’ said Anderson at
program’s end. *‘While it might be difficult to assign a dollar
value to what I learned, that other Bottom Line, ethics, is so
important that the course was extremely worthwhile. I really
enjoyed the two weeks.”’

In his keynote address, Sidney Coulling, professor of
English, cited Alfred North Whitehead’s challenging
pronouncement: ‘‘There is a great function which awaits the
American universities, and that is to civilize business: or,
better, to get businessmen to civilize themselves. . . . It is
not enough that they should amass fortunes in this way or that
and then endow a college or a hospital. The motive in
amassing the fortune should be in order to use it for a socially
constructive end. . . . If America is to be civilized, it must be
done . . . by the business class, who are in possession of the
power and the economic processes.”’

But Coulling also cogently observed that the universities
can learn from the business community as well. One of the

 

Small discussion groups produced penetrating insights.

Sas

  

tiie

week it had become clear to me that, while businessmen may
need to generalize, we at the same time need to be more
specific.’’

The application of human values to concrete situations
was a frequent challenge to the faculty. Business case studies

 

 

‘‘The Institute was very helpful to me in my
efforts to acquire a better understanding of
myself and my values, as well as a clear sense

of value choices and conflicts.”’
—Joel Anderson, President and Chief Executive Officer
South Georgia Natural Gas

 

most gratifying rewards of the Institute was the learning

experienced by the regular faculty. Lad Sessions celebrated
the Institute’s free exchange of ideas, citing the continuous
dialogue between faculty and participants: ‘‘By the second

4

66

. . While businessmen may need to
generalize, we at the same time need to be

more specific.”’
—W. Lad Sessions, Professor of Philosophy

 

soon revealed that the world of the corporate executive is
much more fluid than the fixed circumstances of novels and
plays. Haunted by changing contingencies, the situational
ethicist becomes a less confident decision maker.

As the program developed, the participants themselves
seemed often more readily able to formulate ethical criteria
for decisions than the faculty. ‘‘They were fast learners,”’
admitted Severn Duvall. ‘‘It was often a task just to keep up
with them.’’

Lou Hodges, director of the Institute, found himself much
more fiscally conservative and less supportive of corporate
good-will investments in public benefit programs than several
executives. ‘‘I got myself into a terrific argument over
corporate support of public television. It seems to me plain
thievery,’’ Lou groused, his eyes glinting with orneriness and
mischief, ‘‘that some guy up on the twenty-third floor can
take away some of the investor’s profits and throw it at some
program on whales.’’

Perhaps the greatest reciprocal benefit of the Institute was
the understanding each community gained of the other.
Several participants praised the degree of involvement of the
faculty in all phases of the program—‘‘commitment, intent,
attitude, labor, and concern: A+,’’ wrote Robert Hall, vice
president of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.

al

 

 

Not all the food was for thought. . . .

Through such contact, faculty and participants alike were
able to discover common bonds of humanity linking all
members of the group, as well as a deeply shared
commitment to improving the quality of life in America.
‘‘Men work together,’’ they read in Robert Frost, ‘‘whether
they work together or apart.’’

Not all activities during the Institute for Executives were
conducted on the plane of high moral seriousness. A close
camaraderie among faculty and participants developed
through various recreational activities as well as late night

 

 

Business case studies soon revealed that the
world of the corporate executive is much more
fluid than the fixed circumstances of novels
and plays.

 

bull sessions. A day at Skylark, W&L’s superb retreat at the
crest of the Blue Ridge Mountains, during the middle
weekend proved a pleasant relief from the intense reading
schedule. Volleyball, swimming, tennis, hill climbs, and a
rather grand game of croquet on the knob of one of the
mountains kept the group moving—and arguing.

On most days of the program, each participant had ample
opportunity to break from the reading for a leisurely swim, a
game of tennis, or a quick round of golf—the governing
principle being that all work and no play makes Jack a
scholar. Other mildly diversionary activities included an
evening with W&L’s Pulitzer Prize-winning Professor of
Journalism Clark Mollenhoff, lectures on corporate
investment in fine art and decision making in musical
composition, a local theatre production, and a showing with
commentary of Orson Wells’ film classic, Citizen Kane.

Throughout the program much of the social conversation

 

Some T-shirt philosophy

was anecdotal and, thus, difficult now to rehearse. The daily
cocktail hour frequently erupted in hilarity at the antics and
astonishing wit of Mike Turin, a short, wiry New Yorker,
and Bill Tutt, a huge, robust hotel executive from Colorado.

On the final afternoon, the group convened for a
rollicking game of softball. One of the players, Jerry Hess,
director of public relations for Kelly-Springfield Tire Co..,
fashioned a uniform for himself emblazoned with a coinage
that became a motto for the Institute program: ‘‘Ethics: the
Bottom Line.”’

Such recollections become desultory and, doubtless,
rather tedious to those who did not share the Institute
experience. Those who did participate in the program can be
expected to run on about it, now that they have caught their
wind.

To summarize, however, Washington and Lee’s first
Institute for Executives was a gratifying, immensely
enjoyable success—‘‘I can unequivocally say that it was a
great learning experience’’; ‘‘not only interesting and
enlightening, but certainly also very profitable’’; ‘‘a very
rewarding experience.”’

 

Perhaps the greatest reciprocal benefit of the
Institute was the understanding each
community gained of the other.

 

The endorsements from the participants, at this writing,
are still arriving. Also at this time, plans are forming for
Washington and Lee’s second annual Institute for
Executives—the next expedition for the ultimate bottom line.

The author, formerly assistant professor of English at W&L,
is now director of Summer Programs for the University and
assistant director of publications.

by Jeffery Hanna

‘PING-PONG EDUCATION’

Visitors from Rikkyo University Like the Student-Faculty Give-and-Take at W&L

Remember the days of ‘‘Ping-Pong
diplomacy’’?

Well, you won’t find mention of it
anywhere in the official catalogue, but
Washington and Lee offers its students
‘‘Ping-Pong education. ”’

That, at least, is the way two Japanese
visitors—one a student, one a teacher—chose
to describe the educational process they
encountered at W&L.

James Takashi Yashiro is dean of
students and professor of Christian studies at
Rikkyo University, a highly-esteemed private
college of 12,000 students located in Tokyo.

Kazuhiro Hazama is a senior at Rikkyo
where he is majoring in industrial relations in
the school of social relations.

Both men spent the 1980-81 academic
year at Washington and Lee: Yashiro as
Howerton Scholar-in-Residence and visiting
professor of religion, Hazama as a participant
in the student exchange program between
W&L and Rikkyo.

Before they returned to Japan in June,
Yashiro and Hazama reflected upon their
W&L experiences in an interview.

Of all the impressions they had formed of
the University, none made more impact upon
them than the relative informality of the
student-teacher relationship at W&L—
relative, that is, when compared to Rikkyo,
where size and tradition dictate a much more
formal atmosphere.

That informality, they agreed, breeds a
distinctive classroom style—a style
characterized by the tendency of professors
to talk with their students rather than at
them.

‘‘T would describe the learning process at
Washington and Lee as a Ping-Pong match.”’
said Hazama, known as ‘‘Kaz’’ by his fellow
students at W&L.

‘Here, the information goes back and
forth between the student and the teacher. It
is a Ping-Pong match in which the people
really deal with each other and give it all
they’ve got in that relationship. It is very
productive, I think.

‘‘In Japan, on the other hand, it is one-
way traffic for the most part. The
relationship between students and professors
is stiff and formalized, not at all like here.’’

Yashiro took that comparison a step
further, suggesting that the difference in

6

educational styles is, in part at least, directly
related to basic differences in the structures
of the societies.

‘Japanese society is a very vertical
society as contrasted with the democratic
society you have here in the United States,”’
explained Yashiro. ‘‘When we are talking to
someone above us, we must use terms of
respect. Students must be very polite and
formal to a professor no matter what they
might think of him. It is a cultural thing.’’

Yashiro, like Hazama, found the close
student-teacher relationship at W&L an
invaluable asset—as invaluable for the
teacher as for the student, a Ping-Pong match
in which both players win.

‘‘At Rikkyo,”’ said Yashiro, ‘‘I just go
and give lectures and at the very end of the
year we have the final exams. I grade all the
papers, and it makes no difference whether I
flunk half the students.

‘‘But here at Washington and Lee I have
had to be very, very concerned with each
individual student with whom I have studied.
I must read their papers carefully and grade
each one carefully. From time to time, they
have come to me to ask questions about
something I have said in class, and we have
dialogue about that. There is a personal
touch in the way I have taught here that is
not present in my teaching at Rikkyo.

‘Instead of simply delivering lectures to
classes of 200 or 300 students, I have had to
watch every student here very carefully.
Because of that, I have learned quite a lot
from the way students are thinking. I realize
sometimes the way, the angles, students are
looking at things are quite new to me.”’

Yashiro was not altogether unaccustomed
to the approach he found at Washington and
Lee, though. As an undergraduate, Yashiro
studied at Kenyon College in Ohio, where he
learned to appreciate the advantages of a less
formal, more personal style. He was even
prepared for the lifestyle of a small, rural,
college community.

‘Why, I even belonged to one of those
naughty fraternities,’’ said Yashiro, laughing
his hearty laugh. “‘I am used to this kind of
life.’’

If there was one thing that did surprise
Yashiro, however, it was the diligence with
which his Washington and Lee students
approached their studies.

‘I think the student here at Washington
and Lee works harder than the Rikkyo
student,’’ said Yashiro, who taught courses
in Japanese culture and Christian thought as
well as a seminar on Buddhism and
Christianity. ‘‘I do not think that means
American students are brighter than Rikkyo
students or vice-versa. I simply say they
work harder.’’

That discovery bodes ill for those Rikkyo
students who enroll in one of Yashiro’s
classes this fall. Late in his tenure at W&L,
Yashiro dashed off a letter to his dean,
vowing that “‘I am not going to pass anyone
anymore who doesn’t study for my classes.”’

As in the case of the comparative
informality of the student-teacher
relationship, the difference in the students’
industry at W&L and Rikkyo is partly a
reflection of other differences underlying the
structures of the two societies.

‘‘The major difference is that we have
very, very stiff competition in getting into
Japanese colleges,’’ Yashiro explained.
‘‘Students compete to get a place in the most
prestigious college by scoring well on
entrance exams. But once you are in, it is
very, very hard to fail.

‘‘Japanese students work to get into
colleges while American students work to get
out of college.’’

As an example, Hazama had to attend a
preparatory school for a year before he could
earn acceptance to Rikkyo.

‘‘The key,’’ said Hazama, “‘is to get into
a good college in the first place. Once you’re
in, you can float your way through. When
you get out, the kind of job you get depends
largely on the status of the college you were
able to get into. I don’t think that is quite the
same here.”’

Hazama confessed he was unprepared for
what awaited him in the classroom at
Washington and Lee, primarily because his
expectations were based upon a stereotype
many Japanese students have of American
colleges.

‘It was different from what I had heard
and what I had imagined an American
college would be,’’ Hazama said. ‘‘A good
many Japanese exchange students go to
schools on the West Coast. What you
normally hear from them are stories about
wild and thrilling kinds of things that go on

 

 

 

 

 

James Takashi Yashiro (left) and Kazuhiro Hazama found W&L a unique experience.

outside the classrooms at those schools—the
beaches, the surfing, things like that.

‘*From hearing those things I think we
assume that all American colleges must be
that way and that the one word that sums up
what college is like in America is ‘‘fun.’’
The feeling is that to come to the U:S. is to
have'a good time, not really to study. A lot
of my Rikkyo classmates probably assumed
that by coming to Washington and Lee to
school I was actually taking a year off.’’

And was it a year off for Hazama?

‘‘Not at all. I agree with Professor
Yashiro: the students work a lot harder here.
They are serious about their studies. I really
had to work to keep up,’’ Hazama said. ‘‘I
had quite a lot of ups and downs. I expected
too much out of myself when I first arrived. I
was pushing myself, especially because of
the language barrier. Eventually, I settled
down and began doing things at my own
pace.’’

Hazama’s adjustment to the classroom
was actually a breeze compared to his
adjustment to the strange, new environment
in which he found himself. After all,
Lexington bears little resemblance to
Tokyo—except, perhaps, for the
omnipresence of camera-wielding tourists.

At times, Hazama wondered whether he
had actually arrived on another planet instead
of merely in another country.

“‘T grew up in the heart of Tokyo,”’
Hazama explained. ‘‘If I step outside my
door, I am in the middle of all the city’s
activities. Lexington was quite a change for
me. |

‘‘In fact, my first few hours here were
rather terrifying. When I first arrived at the
Roanoke airport and was driven to Lexington
at night, it was the first time in my life that I
had been on a road without any lights.

‘“That ride was a horrifying experience.
All I could see was total darkness with
maybe some dim lights in the distance here
and there. It was a feeling of ‘Where in the
world are they going to take me now?’ I have
never seen so much vast open space.”’

Once over the initial shock (and once the
sun shed some light on his new world),
Hazama found himself adjusting, ever so
gradually, to a lifestyle that was unlike
anything he had ever known.

*“Tokyo provides so many different

 

Opportunities, so many different things that
you can do. It is a very, very active place,”’
Hazama explained.

‘‘Once I got into this environment, I
discovered that I slowed down. It is quiet
and peaceful here. And the rhythm of life is
so much slower. It gives you more time to
think about yourself and what you’re doing.
That was valuable for me. I soon discovered
that this is a very special environment.’’

That is not to suggest that everything
about W&L and Lexington was to Hazama’s
liking. He was, for instance, shocked to
discover that W&L is all male.

‘‘T had gone to an all-male high school,
but Rikkyo is coeducational,’’ Hazama said.
‘‘Personally, I think you need a female
relationship in a college environment because
I think limited exposure to women can have
a negative effect; men learn only limited
ways of interacting with women since they

8

 

As Howerton Scholar-in-Residence, Yashiro was a popular lecturer.

are not interacting with them on a daily
basis.”’

This, however, is one part of their W&L
experience on which Hazama and Yashiro
disagreed.

‘‘T felt much, much freer teaching all
men,’’ Yashiro said. ‘‘I had never studied
with female students in my classes at
Kenyon, so I felt more at home here. At
Rikkyo where I teach coeducational classes,
it is not always easy for me to give out bad
marks to the women students. That was not a
problem for me here. I felt freer dealing
man-to-man.’’

Perhaps Hazama’s most intriguing
cultural discovery came the first time he
wore a favorite shirt and was immediately
classified as a “‘preppie’’ by virtue of the
celebrated alligator.

‘*T didn’t realize my alligator shirt was
part of the preppie outfit until I came here,

but I discovered they cost about half as much
here as they do at home so I did buy a couple
of them to take back,’’ Hazama said.

‘*Actually, college students in Japan do
have a very distinct outfit that is called the
‘Ivy Look’ and involves blazers with
emblems, thin ties, button down shirts,
khakis, and the rest.

‘‘But as for the ‘preppie’ look here in the
U.S. I don’t think I would wear a pair of
lime green pants in Tokyo if somebody paid
me a thousand dollars.”’

In truth, Hazama believes that he is more
Americanized than some Americans.

‘‘T have probably put more effort into
learning about the United States than about
my own country,’’ he said. *‘This year,
though, gave me an opportunity to reflect
back more on my own country.

‘‘T discovered that a lot of students in the
United States are very proud of being
American and of being in this country.
Perhaps because of that, many are limited
and also very biased in their knowledge of
other countries and other cultures. They are
not as exposed to other cultures as we are in
Japan.”’

Yashiro, however, was gratified to find
that American colleges seem to be placing
greater emphasis on Asian studies nowadays.

‘‘In my college days in the U.S., all we
had to learn as history majors was American
and British history. It is amazing for me to
see how the school here put such importance
on Asian studies,’’ he said.

‘Still, other people know America more
than Americans know other countries. That
is simply because people need to know
America since it is a leader in the free world;
they cannot afford to ignore America.

‘By the same token, average Americans
do not know much about Japanese people.
Perhaps Americans need to learn more about
other countries. And I think there are a lot of
good signs in that regard now.’’

Certainly, the ongoing exchange program
between W&L and Rikkyo is a step in that
direction.

‘“One of the main things I learned during
my year at W&L,’’ said Hazama, ‘‘was how
to interact with different kinds of people.

And in learning how to do that, I learned a
lot about myself. I think that is what the
exchange program is all about.’’

sa a a

 

In addition to its own fine photographic
staff, Washington and Lee occasionally
employs the eyes of two extraordinary local
photographers. Both are women—mothers
(with young children) and wives of W&L
alumni—who are accomplished professionals
devoted to their craft. They are as well close
friends and earnest rivals, and they inhabit,
in this small part of Virginia, visual worlds
that are remarkably different from each
other.

Sally Mann has given Washington and
Lee perhaps the most memorable images of
its recent self. For eight years as University
photographer, she recorded the changing
faces and moods of the campus and its
people. Her portraits capture the University’s
serene reverence for its traditions, as well as
the bold architectural developments of recent
projects. Her photographic record of the
construction of Lewis Hall, for example,
now on permanent display in the law school,
is a fascinating illustration of how the most
mundane reality—in this case, a building not
yet a building—can sponsor images of
arresting beauty and suggestiveness. Another
series of photographs, a group of fabric
abstractions she calls ‘‘The Color Pictures,”’
is in the University’s permanent collection.

Sally Mann’s work has won numerous
awards and distinctions. She has had
showings at the Corcoran Gallery in
Washington, D.C., and at several studies in
New York City. She has been selected by
Time-Life Books /98/ Photography Annual
as one of four international ‘‘New
Discoveries.’’ In 1980, she won the Southern
Women Photographers Competition. David
Godine of Boston is publishing a book of her
work as part of his series on contemporary
photographers. Last year she retired from
active service at the University to pursue her
private projects and to raise a family.

Nancy Spencer’s recent work was
exhibited in Washington and Lee’s duPont
Gallery last April. W&L art professor
Pamela Simpson, who helps coordinate
gallery exhibitions, reports that she has never
seen a show that aroused as much
enthusiastic attention.

The Spencer exhibition consisted mainly
of photographs taken with a ‘‘Diana,’’ a
$1.75 plastic lens camera—the sort given
away at carnivals. The camera’s cheap
construction produces notorious aberrations:
light leaks, fogging, vignetting, and image
distortion. Serious photographers have been

by Robert P. Fure

Bizarrerie:

The Photographs

of
Nancy Spencer

66

Elephants a la Diana: ‘‘. . . face-
less beasts, chained to a world of
dubious festivity.’’

experimenting with the Diana for several
years as an alternative to the high-priced,
perfect resolutions of Nikons and Leicas. Its
challenging limitations also create marvelous
opportunities for creativity, and in some
Cases even a more direct revelation of a
subject’s special significance.

One of the photographs in the duPont
show, for example, depicts two elephants in
a circus. The Diana’s restricted area of focus
serves to maximize an eerie tension in the
setting. The scene is lit by a gloomy,
ominous sky; a strong wind whips the flags
above the circus tent; at the center, the
massive, wrinkled bulks of the elephants are
about to touch. The moment has a
powerfully dramatic quality made virtually
incandescent by the Diana’s tendency to
gather the most light in the center of each
frame. Because of the camera’s limited area
of focus, the elephants remain anonymous—
dark, faceless beasts, chained to a world of
dubious festivity. Yet, in Nancy Spencer’s
hands, the Diana zeroes in on a facet of the
scene that evokes somehow a momentous
wildness: elephants, swaying in a cramped,
civilized space, about to collide.

‘“The Diana says what I want to say,”’
Ms. Spencer remarks.

 

Nancy Spencer

 

Spencer by Mann: a prize-winning photographer’ s portrait of her colleague.

Looking at her Diana photographs, she is
more readily reminded, she claims, of what
she felt like at the time she shot the picture.
In a curious way, the camera, through its
distortions, instills a vaguely mnemonic
quality in the photographed image. It is as if
one were looking at a memory: one central
detail, with the rest of the event faded and
unfocused.

‘It’s a very nostalgic camera,’’ she says,
smiling.

Her interest in the grotesque and
mysterious, however, prevents such
‘nostalgia’ from ever seeming maudlin or
sentimental.

She remembers her first Diana
photograph: ‘‘I was at a photo workshop in
Maine and picked it up as a gift for the
kids.’’ On her first day home, she used the
camera to photograph a cat encountering a
snake. “‘I was knocked out by the results,”’
She says, “‘so the kids never got their
present.”’

The photo does have an intriguing
quirkiness: in a fish-eye world of prickly
grass, a garter snake twists toward cover,
while a cat, with typical feline
assiduousness, scrutinizes every wriggle. It
is another instance of ‘‘encounter,”’ Nancy
Spencer’s version of Cartier-Bresson’s
‘decisive moment,’’ a motif that is clearly a
favorite of hers, yet one that does not confine
her to any narrow range of moods.

‘That was two years ago, yet I feel that
I’ve just scratched the surface of the
camera’s potential,’’ she says.

Some of Ms. Spencer’s Diana
photographs border on abstractions, like the

10

 

exquisitely simple ‘‘Picket Fence.’’ The stark
contrasts of verticals and diagonals, black
and white, reduce the viewer’s frame of
reference to an elemental plane of lines,
darkness, and light. It is an image without
narrative dimension, only its own playful
movement into and then beyond our focal
point.

Other Dianas tell whole stories. In one, a
mother stands with her young daughter
gazing across a distant field. It seems an
image right out of Winslow Homer, yet here
Ms. Spencer has chosen to capture the mood
of melancholic revery from the figures’ backs
and at the level of the child’s eyes. Only the
mother’s hip and elbow, those parts of her
closest to the child, are in focus. The little
girl, alert to some mystery beyond us, fidgets
with her dress, dissolving into the frame’s
hazy edge. It is a photograph that perhaps
only marriage and motherhood could make,
and it is done with an artistry that has found
the most strategic point of view for its
narrative.

Nancy Spencer studied photography
before graduating from Hollins College in
1969. She resumed her interest five years
ago, working as Sally Mann’s assistant in the
Washington and Lee Publications Office,
where she learned among other things how to
shoot ‘‘the standard head-and-shoulders
pictures of lacrosse players.’’ She broke into
freelancing in 1978. Since then she has
earned several commissions, a few prizes,
and a growing recognition in the Virginia-
Carolina region, though not yet the broad
celebrity of her former mentor.

When discussing her career and her

 

ambitions, she has the modest impatience of
one who would rather talk about
photographable subjects: ‘‘I love recording
my family, my children as they’re growing

up.”’

When pressed about the general oddness
of her portfolio, she allows that she favors
‘*a magical, mysterious dimension to
everyday reality, very special moments in my
life when life seems to be imitating art.”’
Such moments are, of course, what serious
photography always seeks. They are not
often found, but Ms. Spencer seems to have
in her pursuit uncanny good luck.

In another circus photograph, for
example, she seems to have found, poised
for a moment in its pilgrimage a major
portion of the human race. It is humanity,
from “‘ape to Z.’’ The picture displays a
fascinating tableau of faces and
expressions—curiosity, doubt, anticipation,
bemusement—as well as a clever enactment
of the monkey’s teaching: “‘speak no evil,
see no evil, hear no evil.’’ Many of Ms.
Spencer’s photographs have such a wealth of
suggestive imagery that, dropping her lens,
she might easily become a symbolist poet.

Her pursuit of the ‘‘magical, mysterious
dimension of everyday reality’’ is evident in
the delightfully intriguing photo of a white
rabbit under a moon, two piercing points of
light in a haunted gloom. But the most
magical, certainly, is her long series of
‘‘fairy pictures.’’ Made in collaboration with
her children, these photographs capture light
streaking across floors, ceilings, and walls.

‘“These are fairy paths,’’ she says,
winking. ‘‘And where they cross you find a
little energy field.

‘“Fairies can appear in any house,’’ she
continues. ‘‘They have to have an access and
then an easy exit. If they can’t get out, you
got troubles.’”’

The little story broadens into metaphors
of her own life.

‘‘T took up photography again five years
ago when I felt I was going crazy,’’ Nancy
Spencer explains.

The comment has the light-hearted, self-
deprecatory humor that characterizes her
descriptions of herself and her career as
photographer, housewife, and mother in
Lexington.

‘*T’m still going crazy,’’ she adds, ‘‘but I
have some wonderful photographs. ”’

Perhaps twice a year, she estimates, that
marvelous collision between foresight and
chance produces a photograph worth saving:
‘“When you arrive at that harmony—when
you, the camera, and the event are one—then
it all seems worthwhile.’’

A couple of months ago, Nancy caught
her daughter, Beth, standing below a tropical
plant, face up to the sunlight: ‘‘. . . my
children as they’re growing up.”’

aaa

 

Cat and snake: capturing the
‘‘decisive moment.’’

Picket fence: ‘‘. . .an image with-
out narrative dimension, only its
own playful movement into and
then beyond our focal point.’’

 

 

11

 

 

12

Nancy Spencer

Mother and daughter: ‘‘. . . a
photograph that perhaps only
marriage and motherhood
could make.’’

From ape to Z: ‘‘. . . speak no
evil, seeno evil, hear no evil...’’

 

 

 

 

Lt

ina

ins and rabb

mounta

,

ht
lercing points o

ig

Moonl

light

two p
haunted gloom.”’

66

iS

 

 

Nancy Spencer -~~=—D
 #@©|©—™©hTErti‘“M—Cs—<—Ss~Sé—™MS

DD
ye ay Ye
ee

Fairy paths: “*. . . where they cross
you find a little energy field.’’

bs LO
_

Children growing up: ‘‘. . . the

marvelous collision between

Ly
foresight and chance . . . tl llllrlrttrtsti(i‘COtC(O'i*C(C Uiété#CNO#N(Uié(#(CUw¥t

 

 

14

 

GAZETTE

Steinheimer to Retire as Law Dean in ’83; Search Committee Appointed

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., dean of the School
of Law, will retire from that position
following the 1982-83 academic year.

Steinheimer will reach the customary
retirement age during the 1981-82 academic
year. But, at the University’s request, he has
agreed to remain in the deanship an
additional year in order to facilitate a
thorough and orderly search for his
successor.

President Robert E. R. Huntley has
announced the appointment of a search
committee, which will begin immediately the
process of identifying and screening
candidates for the position.

Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law, has
been appointed chairman of the Dean-Search
Committee. The committee members are
Andrew W. McThenia Jr., professor of law;
Joseph E. Ulrich, professor of law; and,
Mark H. Grunewald, associate professor of
law.

McThenia was a member of the search
committee that recommended Steinheimer’s
appointment as dean in 1968.

According to Shaffer, no timetable has
been established by the committee, which
plans to solicit and accept recommendations
from the widest possible audience.

Steinheimer became dean of W&L’s law
school on Sept. 1, 1968, succeeding Huntley
in the position.

Under Steinheimer’s guidance, the law
school has flourished during the past decade,
moving into Lewis Hall, its ultramodern, $9-
million facility in 1976, and instituting an
admissions program that has made the law
school a strong national institution with a
more diverse student body than in the past.

A native of Dodge City, Kansas,
Steinheimer came to W&L from the
University of Michigan Law School, where
he had been a professor from 1950 to 1968.

Steinheimer received his bachelor’s
degree from the University of Kansas and his
law degree from the University of Michigan.
He practiced law with Sullivan & Cromwell
in New York City for 10 years prior to
joining the University of Michigan faculty.

Steinheimer’s primary field is
commercial law. He served for several years
on the Uniform Commercial Code
committees of both the American and
Michigan State Bar Associations. He is the

Dean Roy L. Steinheimer

author of numerous books and articles on
legal matters, including the two-volume
‘‘Uniform Commercial Code Forms with
Practice Comments”’ (1969) and the two-
volume ‘*Desk Reference to the Uniform
Commercial Code’’ (1964).

In response to Steinheimer’s decision to
remain in his current post an additional year,
President Huntley said: ‘‘Both the Board of
Trustees and I are very pleased that Dean
Steinheimer has agreed to our request that he
defer his retirement as dean for one year past
the normal retirement age. He has brought
extraordinary ability, vigor, and leadership to
our law school during a period of major
growth and development. We will need a full
measure of time to locate a person who can
effectively succeed him.’”’

 

 

Judge Brown bequest
to School of Law

Washington and Lee received a bequest
of approximately $89,500 from the estate of
the late Judge William Henry Brown, an
Oklahoma attorney and a 1902 law graduate.

Brown died in February 1978 at the age

 

of 101. In his will, he designated his bequest
for the ‘‘use and benefit’? of W&L’s law
school. The bequest will be used to establish
the Brown Fund in Endowment for support
of the law school program.

A native of Mississippi, Brown was
elected to the Mississippi legislature at the
age of 23, two years before he entered W&L.
He went to Oklahoma in 1906, one year
before statehood, and was eventually named
judge of the 5th Judicial District, noted for
cattle rustling and bank, train and post office
robberies.

He later served as assistant state attorney
general, general counsel for the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission, and Oklahoma
City municipal counselor.

 

 

Scholarships established

A portion of a trust fund established
under the will of a Charleston, W.Va., man
will be used to provide scholarships for
students attending Washington and Lee from
two counties in West Virginia.

According to the bequest of William
Baker Hall, who died in April 1981 at the

15

 

de GAZETTE

age of 91, Washington and Lee will receive
20 percent of the trust that is estimated at
$1 million.

Hall specified in his will that the
University award the scholarship money to
needy students from Jefferson and Kanawha
counties in West Virginia.

A retired engineer for the West Virginia
Water Company, Hall was born in Jefferson
County and lived for many years in Kanawha
County. He divided his trust among various
institutions in those two counties in addition
to establishing the scholarship fund for
students of both counties.

 

 

Law school is host
to judicial conference

Twenty-nine judges from state and
appellate courts throughout the United States
participated in a conference at the
Washington and Lee School of Law this
summer.

Entitled ‘‘Jurisprudence and the
Humanities,’’ the week-long conference was
sponsored by the American Academy of
Judicial Education, an organization which
provides educational programs and serves
judges throughout their careers.

The conference focused on the
practicalities of judging, particularly the
knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary to
meet the ever-changing responsibilities of
being a judge.

The conference coordinator was Marilyn
Miller of the American Academy of Judicial
Education.

Two Washington and Lee professors—
Thomas Shaffer, professor of law, and Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion and
director of W&L’s Applied Program in
Ethics—were members of the Conference
faculty.

 

 

Kresge challenge grant
for Tucker-Newcomb project

The Kresge Foundation of Troy, Mich.,
has made a $250,000 challenge grant to
Washington and Lee in support of renovation
projects for two University buildings, Tucker
Hall and Newcomb Hall.

To meet terms of the grant, W&L must
raise the remaining cost of the renovation
projects, estimated at $1.5 million, by
December 15, 1981. In order to receive the
grant, $500,000 in new gifts must be raised.

Both renovation projects were begun in

16

 

Computer Center in Tucker Hall.

1980 on the two buildings that are part of the
University’s front campus.

The $400,000 project to remodel
Newcomb Hall—the 97-year-old former
commerce building at the south end of the
Colonnade—has resulted in substantially.
improved facilities for four undergraduate
departments in humanities.

Newcomb was in full use when classes
began in September. Offices for 22 faculty
members in history, sociology, philosophy,
and religion have been provided as well as
several spacious classrooms and seminar
rooms.

The Tucker Hall project is a $1.1 million
renovation of the University’s former law

 

school building. The renovated areas
accommodate the University’s computer
center and psychology department. The
classrooms and laboratories have videotape
capabilities, which allow review of
experiments. There are also specially
designed areas for research work involving
animals. Offices and classrooms have also
been provided for the University’s language
departments.

The Kresge Foundation considered 1,551
qualified proposals in 1981 and awarded new
grant commitments totaling $33,354,000 to
176 charitable organizations, including
Washington and Lee.

The majority of those grants were toward
projects such as Washington and Lee’s,
which involved construction or renovation of
facilities.

The Kresge Foundation was created
solely by the personal gifts of the late
Sebastian S. Kresge. Since 1924,
appropriations of over $416 million have
been made to institutions in the areas of
higher education, health care and related
services, the arts and humanities, social
welfare, science, conservation and religion.

 

 

 

Brian Rinehamer

Brian Rinehamer, who would have
been a sophomore at Washington and
Lee this year, died Aug. 9 as a result of
head injuries he sustained in an
automobile accident near his hometown
of Saint Johns, Pa. He was 19.

A graduate of Hazelton (Pa.) High
School, Rinehamer was an_ honor
student, the winner of the Bausch &
Lomb Science Award, and a member of
both the football and baseball teams.

At Washington and Lee, he was a
member of the varsity baseball team and
the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

He was the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Horace C. Rinehamer of St. Johns, Pa.

 

 

 

Buddhism researched
at Skylark conference

A research team engaged in a three-year
study of Buddhism in Japanese civilization
held its fourth conference, ‘‘Buddhism in
Japanese Art,’’ at Skylark, Washington and
Lee’s mountaintop retreat on the Blue Ridge
Parkway, in June.

The research team, which includes Minor
Rogers, associate professor of religion at
Washington and Lee, was formed under the
auspices of the John King Fairbank Center
for East Asian Research of Harvard
University and with a grant from the
National Endowment for the Humanities.

Two or three volumes are projected on
the theme *‘Buddhism in Japanese
Civilization’ as a result of the study.

In addition to Rogers, other members of
the research team who took part in the
Skylark conference were Masatoshi
Nagatomi, project director and professor of
Buddhist studies at Harvard University;
Robert Lee, professor of religion at
Southwestern (Tex.) University; James H.
Sanford, assistant professor of religion at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;
and, Whalen W. Lai, assistant professor in
religious studies and Asian studies at the
University of California-Davis.

Several art historians presented papers

 

§

during the conference. They included
Jonathan Best of Wesleyan University, John
Rosenfield of Harvard, Barbara Ruch of the
University of Pennsylvania, Elizabeth ten
Grotenhuis of Harvard, Laura Kaufman of
Manhattanville College, and Yoshiaki
Shimizu of the Smithsonian Institution.

The final two conferences conducted by
the research team will be held at the
University of California at Berkeley and at
Harvard.

The Skylark Estate was donated to
Washington and Lee in 1977 by Mr. and
Mrs. Leslie Cheek Jr. and has been used for
a variety of meetings and conferences.

techniques used in the program are unusual
since “‘the participants learn the techniques
by actually using them rather than relying on
lectures or having instructors demonstrate
techniques.”’

The program made considerable use of
the law school’s extensive video tape
equipment.

This was the third summer that W&L’s
law school was host for the trial advocacy
program.

 

 

 

 

Lawyers hold workshop

Washington and Lee’s School of Law
served as host in June to a program designed
to help practicing attorneys become better
trial lawyers.

Twenty-two lawyers from throughout
Virginia took part in the Virginia Continuing
Legal Education/National Institute for Trial
Advocacy, a nine-day program.

James Phemister, associate professor of
law at W&L, was one of the two teaching
team leaders in the program. The other
teaching team leader was Don Beskind of the
Duke University law school.

Instruction was given by six practicing
trial lawyers and two judges, all of whom
volunteered their time and their talents to
work in the program.

According to Phemister, the teaching

 

 

376 freshmen enroll
in undergraduate school

Washington and Lee enrolled 376
freshmen in September, an increase of
slightly more than nine percent over a year
ago.

According to statistics compiled by W&L
Admissions Director William Hartog, this
year’s class possesses exceptionally strong
academic qualifications.

For instance, 18 Merit Scholarship
finalists enrolled, compared with 12 a year
ago and with six in 1979.

More than 80 percent of the freshmen
graduated in the top two-fifths of their
secondary school classes; 47 percent
graduated in the top fifth; 20 students were
either the valedictorian or salutatorian of
their class.

Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) scores
average 560 verbal and 590 math.

The freshmen represent 291 different
secondary schools in 39 states with 61

 

Assistant Alumni Secretary L. C. (Buddy) Atkins (right) presents a check for $3 ,)00—representing
accumulated profit from sales of the alumni chair—to Director of Financial Aid Michael D. Bartini. Over
the years, alumni chair sales have provided more than $32,000 to the scholarship fund in memory of

John Graham, ’ 14.

percent from public secondary schools and
39 percent from private schools.

While the largest contingent of freshmen
come from Virginia (69), New York is
second with 42 students followed by
Maryland with 37, Texas with 34,
Pennsylvania with 27, and Florida with 19.

Renovation of the University’s Graham-
Lees Dormitory has resulted in a change of
housing patterns for this year’s freshmen,
who will be assigned to five dormitories on
the campus while 90 students and five
upperclassmen counselors are residing at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel in downtown
Lexington.

Construction on the Graham-Lees
complex began in early June and is
scheduled for completion in time for the start
of the 1982-83 school year.

 

 

Freshmen alerted
about alcohol dangers

A program designed to alert entering
freshmen to the dangers of alcohol abuse was
instituted as part of the freshman orientation
program at Washington and Lee this fall.

According to H. Robert Huntley,
associate dean of students at W&L,
information was to be disseminated by way
of the dormitory counselors, upperclassmen
who supervise and provide guidance for first-
year students.

“As part of the standard training sessions
we hold for dormitory counselors in early
September, we included one unit on
alcoholism and emphasized the role the
dormitory counselors can play in helping
alert freshmen to possible problems,”’
Huntley explained.

The training session for counselors was
based, in part, on materials from BACCHUS
(Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concerning
the Health of University Students), a
volunteer student organization chartered on
Campuses to promote responsible alcohol-
related behavior.

The new program was partly the result of
a student-conducted study of drinking habits
at W&L. The study was recommended by the
Student Body Executive Committee, the
chief agency of student government at W&L,
and was based on a questionnaire answered
by half the undergraduate student body
(Alumni Magazine, May 1981).

In response to the study, Lewis G. John,
W&L dean of students, had said the results
‘“emphasize:the need to look for educational
programs in the area of alcohol abuse. We
felt that freshman orientation was an

LZ

Le GAZETTE

appropriate vehicle for such an educational
program.”’

In addition to materials from BACCHUS,
the training session for dormitory counselors
included talks on the subject of alcoholism
from several specialists in that field.

 

 

117 First-year students
enter School of Law

Question: what do the following have in
common? A school psychologist, a
newspaper publisher, an ABC Store
manager, a registered nurse with two
children, a former member of the Dartmouth
College crew, and an orchardist.

Give up?

All are planning careers in law and were
among 117 first-year students who began
classes at the Washington and Lee University
School of Law in August.

According to statistics compiled by the
law school, W&L’s first-year students come
from 29 states and the District of Columbia.
They hold undergraduate degrees from 79
colleges and universities.

Those undergraduate institutions with
more than three graduates in W&L’s first-
year law class are Washington and Lee with
six, Dartmouth and the University of
Virginia with five, and Duke, Le Moyne, and
Vanderbilt with four.

The first-year class has 36 women and 81
men.

The grade-point average of the first-year
students for their undergraduate careers was
an average 3.32. Their scores on the
standardized Law School Admissions Test
were an average 638.

In recent years, law school admissions
officials have noted an increase in the
number of students who do not enter law
school directly after graduating from college,
but choose to take a year (sometimes two or
three years) away from their studies before
entering law school. That trend continues to
be evident in this year’s first-year class.

Just less than a quarter (24 percent) of the
new law students received their
undergraduate degrees in 1980 and waited a
year before beginning law school.

Slightly more than half (53 percent) of
the first-year students enrolled directly after
receiving their undergraduate degrees.

The first-year class also includes a
number of ‘‘career-switchers’’—those people
who are leaving full-fledged careers in other
fields to take up the study of law. In several
instances, the ‘‘new’’ law students have been
away from school for as long as 12 years.

18

 

Jay D. Cook Jr.

 

 

Cook is appointed
to Martel Professorship

Jay D. Cook Jr., head of the department
of accounting at Washington and Lee, has
been named to the Mamie Fox Twyman
Martel Professorship by the University’s
board of trustees.

The Martel Professorship was established
in 1956 under the will of Mrs. Martel. The
professorship honors the memory of Mrs.

 

Robert C. Goodell
1911-1981

Robert C. Goodell, 69, who taught
German and English at Washington and
Lee in the early ’40s and mid-’50s, died
on July 19 at a hospital in Williamstown,
Mass., after a long illness.

Goodell received his bachelors de-
gree from Dartmouth College, his mas-
ter’s from Princeton University, and his
doctorate from Columbia University.

He taught at Bowdoin College and
Williams College and was on the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty from 1941 to 1942
and later from 1954 to 1956. He then
joined the U.S. Information Agency and
served tours of duty in Germany, Wash-
ington, D.C., and London, his last sta-
tion. He retired in 1973 and moved back
to Williamstown in 1980.

He is survived by his wife, Anne; a
son, John, and a brother, William.

 

Martel, whose brother, Henry S. Fox Jr.,
was an 1894 graduate of the University.

E. Claybrook Griffith, former head of the
department of economics at W&L, held the
Martel Professorship until his retirement in
1980. He is Mamie Fox Twyman Martel
Professor of Economics, Emeritus.

The professorship is supported annually
by Mamie F. Martel Trust of Houston, which
also supports one other professorship at the
University—the Henry S. Fox Jr.
Professorship currently held by Severn P. C.
Duval, professor of English.

Endowed professorships at Washington
and Lee are established in recognition of
gifts of $500,000 or more to the University’s
endowment or to other permanent capital
purposes.

Cook has taught at Washington and Lee
since 1953. A native of Chester, Pa., he
received the bachelor of arts degree in
history from W&L in 1943. He later earned
his master of business administration degree
from the Wharton School of Commerce at
the University of Pennsylvania and his Ph.D.
degree from Ohio State University.

Prior to joining the W&L faculty, Cook
taught for five years at Denison University in
Granville, Ohio.

In announcing Cook’s appointment to the
Martel Professorship, Washington and Lee
President Robert E. R. Huntley said that
‘*Professor Cook is one of our most
distinguished faculty members, is active on
many University committees, is a productive
scholar, and an excellent teacher. He will
bring honor to the chair as the chair will
bring honor to him.”’

Cook is a member of the American
Accounting Association and has had articles
published in The Virginia Accountant and
The Accounting Review.

 

 

 

 

McThenia drafts proposal
on unclaimed property

Andrew W. McThenia Jr., professor of
law at Washington and Lee University, is
one of the principal architects of a new
proposal on unclaimed property that the
Uniform Law Commission will urge state
legislatures to adopt.

McThenia, a Virginia commissioner on
uniform laws, was one of the reporter-
draftsmen of the proposal adopted earlier this
month at the annual meeting of the Uniform
Law Commission (ULC).

The ULC is a confederation of state
commissions on uniform laws. The 250
practicing lawyers, judges and law professors

who are ULC members are selected by each
of the 50 states, the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico. They draft and urge adoption of
legislative proposals designed to solve
problems common to all states.

The proposed Uniform Unclaimed
Property Act of 1981, which McThenia was
instrumental in drafting, deals with property
that has been lost or abandoned by its
rightful owner. The property ranges from
stocks and bonds to utility deposits to
parimutuel tickets.

According to the ULC, an astonishing
number of Americans deposit money in
banks and simply forget about it. Or they
buy stock and move without bothering to
leave the company a forwarding address for
their dividend checks.

As a consequence, billions of dollars lie
abandoned in such financial pockets. Often,
the rightful owner has died and the heirs are
unaware that a windfall could be theirs.

The ULC committee of which McThenia
was a member drafted a proposal designed to
reunite owners with their property and to
streamline its transfer to state custody.

In addition to McThenia, the other
reporter-draftsman of the ULC proposal is
David J. Epstein, a practicing lawyer in Los
Angeles.

McThenia, who received both his
undergraduate and law degrees from
Washington and Lee, joined the law school
faculty in 1967. He teaches courses in
contracts, negotitations, and injunctions.

 

 

Legal ethics examined
in new Shaffer book

In their relationships with clients,
lawyers should adopt an “‘ethics of care,’’ a
professional relation marked by openness in
moral dialogue.

So argues Thomas L. Shaffer, professor
of law at Washington and Lee University and
author of a new book entitled On Being a
Christian and a Lawyer.

In his book, Shaffer takes exception to
the theory that ‘‘it is necessary, in working
with law, to set morals aside.’’

He notes that prevailing notions about
attorney-client relationships take one of two
forms: the ‘‘ethics of role’’ or the ‘‘ethics of
isolation.’’ In the ‘‘ethics of role,’’ the
lawyer does what the client wants or tells
the client to do. In the ‘‘ethics of
isolation,’’ moral statements are made
without significant interpersonal
conversation.

Shaffer, former dean of the Notre Dame

 

Thomas L. Shaffer

law school, believes the law profession
should become one in which the lawyer’s
calling becomes a form of ministry.

Addressing the question of what a lawyer
should do when his client wants to perjure
himself, Shaffer says that the lawyer should
not abandon the client, but should urge him
to tell the truth.

Most of the blame for the American legal

system’s avoidance of moral witness, argues

Shaffer, can be placed on law schools, which
either avoid moral questions or suggest that
there is no discipline in moral discourse. In
law school, says Shaffer, ‘“we can still try to
tell the truth to one another,’’ which is the
way things have to begin changing.

On Being a Christian and a Lawyer is
published by the Brigham Young University
Press.

Shaffer, a native of Billings, Montana,
received his B.A. degree from the University
of Albuquerque in 1958 and his law degree
from Notre Dame in 1961. He served on the
faculty at Notre Dame from 1963 to 1980.
He has been visiting professor of law at both
UCLA and the University of Virginia and
was the Frances Lewis Scholar-in-Residence
at Washington and Lee in the fall of 1979
before joining the W&L faculty as professor
of law in 1980.

Shaffer is the author or co-author of
seven books, including Death, Property, and
Lawyers (1970); The Planning and Drafting
of Wills and Trusts (1972, second edition
1979); Legal Interviewing and Counseling
(1976); and, Lawyers, Law Students and
People (co-author, 1977).

 

 

W&L men on the benches
of highest courts

The 1980 Washington and Lee law
school directory lists the names of 96 judges,
50 of them serving in Virginia courts. The
new alumni directory lists 26 alumni as
judges who attended Washington and Lee as
undergraduates and then studied law
elsewhere. The total number of judges listed
in the new directory is 128. Twenty alumni
serve in the federal courts or on the highest
state courts. The names of the 20 judges are:

Thornton G. Berry Jr., ’34L—Supreme
Court of Appeals, West Virginia (retired)

Thomas A. Clark, ’42—U.S. Court of
Appeals, Fifth Circuit of Florida

A. Christian Compton, °50, ’53L—
Supreme Court of Virginia

Edward S. Delaplaine, ’13—Court of
Appeals of Maryland (retired)

Charles B. Fulton, ’°32—U.S. District
Cou-t of Florida (senior justice)

Alex M. Harman Jr., ’44L—Supreme
Court of Virginia (senior justice)

Harold N. Hill, *52—Supreme Court of
Georgia

Walter E. Hoffman, ’31L—U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia

J. Robert Martin Jr., °31L—U.S.
District Court for the District of South
Carolina

John C. A. MacKenzie, ’39L—U.S.
District Court, Eastern Virginia

Lewis F. Powell Jr., °29, ’31L—U:S.
Supreme Court

Norman C. Roettger Jr. ’58L—U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of
Florida

John M. Shaw, ’53—U.S. District Court
of Louisiana

George R. Smith, ’32—Supreme Court of
Arkansas

Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr., ’43, ’47L—
Supreme Court of Virginia

James C. Turk, 52L—U.S. District Court
for the Western District of Virginia

Sol Wachtler, °51, >52L—State of New
York Court of Appeals

Harry W. Wellford, ’46—U.S. District
Court for the Western District of Tennessee

H. Emory Widener, ’53—U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit of Virginia

John M. Wisdom, ’25—U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit of Louisiana

Corrections and additions should be
called to the attention of Rupert N. Latture,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

19

 

Wy.

el, GAZETTE

 

 

Perry joins Admissions staff

Michael J. Perry has been named to the
position of Admissions Counselor at
Washington and Lee.

Perry, a 1981 W&L graduate, replaces
Biff Martin, who will enter graduate school
at Northwestern University this fall.

A native of Belle Mead, N.J., Perry
majored in economics at W&L. He will be
involved in all areas of the admissions
program at W&L, including extensive travel
to visit with prospective students in
secondary schools and on-campus
interviewing of prospects.

 

 

W&L business office
announces changes

Changes in the organization of the
Washington and Lee University business
office were announced in August by E.
Stewart Epley, the University’s treasurer.

William R. Morrison, formerly Chief
Accountant, has been named Director of
Accounting.

Donald G. Holt, formerly Accountant,
has been appointed Senior Accountant.

Janice H. Bell, formerly General
Accountant, has been named Business Office
Supervisor.

Morrison, a Lexington native, joined the
Washington and Lee business office in 1972.
He was previously employed by the BARC
Electric Cooperative in Millboro, Va.

Holt came to Washington and Lee in
1976 from The H. O. Canfield Co. in Clifton
Forge, Va. He is a native of Buena Vista.

Mrs. Bell joined the W&L staff in 1980
after three years at American Federal Savings
and Loan Association in Lexington. She is a
native of Waynesboro.

 

 

Reveley is appointed
second Howerton Scholar

Walter Taylor Reveley, President
Emeritus of Hampden-Sydney College, will
be Washington and Lee University’s second
scholar-in-residence under the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Endowment Fund in
W&L’s department of religion.

Reveley, who served as Hampden-
Sydney’s president from August 1963 to
June 1977, will be Visiting Professor of
Religion for the fall term at W&L under the
Howerton program.

An ordained minister in the Presbyterian

20

Walter Taylor Reveley

Church of the U.S., Reveley was Millard
Professor of Bible at Southwestern at
Memphis before being named Hampden-
Sydney’s 18th president in 1963. After
leaving the presidency in 1977, Reveley
spent one year at Fitzwilliam College of
Cambridge University and then returned to
Hampden-Sydney as professor of religion for
three years.

At Washington and Lee, Reveley will
teach a course in Old Testament.

Reveley received his bachelor of arts
degree from Hampden-Sydney, his bachelor
of divinity degree from Union Theological
Seminary, and his Ph.D. degree from Duke
University. He has been awarded honorary
doctorates from Southwestern at Memphis
and the College of Charleston.

The Philip F. Howerton Fund at W&L
was established by Mr. Howerton’s widow,
Mrs. Emmie Howerton of Charlotte, N.C.

Philip Howerton, who died 13 years ago,
was moderator of the Presbyterian Church of
the U.S. (Southern) in 1957 and was a
prominent insurance executive in Charlotte.
He was nationally known as a lecturer in
religion and in life insurance.

His father was professor of religion and
philosophy at W&L from 1907 until his
death in 1924 and preceded Philip Howerton
as moderator of the Presbyterian Church by
50 years.

Mrs. Howerton established the fund in
memory of her husband to stimulate an
increased examination and understanding of
the worth of religious faith in contemporary
society and to reinforce Washington and

Lee’s commitment to what Robert E. Lee
once termed ‘‘the very marrow of the
Gospel.’’

James Takashi Yashiro, dean and
professor of church history at Rikkyo
University in Tokyo, Japan, served as the
first Howerton Scholar-in-Residence during
the 1980-81 academic year.

 

 

 

New faculty

Eleven undergraduate teachers and two in
law joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
September. |

New teachers in the College, W&L’s arts
and sciences division are:

Anthony F. Orchard, visiting professor of
chemistry, who will be at W&L for the fall
term only under the University’s exchange
program with the University of Oxford in
England. Orchard is lecturer in inorganic
chemistry at the University of Oxford and
praelector in chemistry at University College;

Wayne M. Dymacek, assistant professor
of mathematics, who was a mathematician
with the Department of Defense before
joining the W&L faculty;

Steve R. Gordy, assistant professor of
religion, a Ph.D. candidate at Vanderbilt
University. Gordy takes the place this year of
Harlan Beckley, assistant professor of
religion, who is on a one-year leave from
teaching in 1981-82.

Douglas N. Leonard, assistant professor
of English, who received his Ph.D. from the
University of Wisconsin in August;

Steven E. Olson, assistant professor of
English, who will receive his Ph.D. from
Stanford University this fall;

Richard Oram, assistant professor and
reference and public services librarian in the
University Library, who had worked as
manuscripts cataloguers at the Humanities
Research Center of the University of Texas
where he received his master’s degree in
library science.

William M. S. Rasmussen, a 1968
graduate of Washington and Lee is
coordinator of education services of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond.
Rasmussen will be assistant professor of art.

Marshall Kirkland Follo, a 1968 graduate
of Washington and Lee, who becomes
instructor in German;

Paula Langdon, instructor in drama, who
has worked with the Nebraska Theatre
Caravan as an actress and teacher.

The two new faculty members in the
School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics are:

 

Craig McCoughrin, assistant professor of
political science at the University of
Pennsylvania, who will be associate
professor of politics at W&L;

David N. Weist, assistant professor of
accounting, who has been a teaching
assistant at the University of Virginia’s

McIntire School of Commerce.

The School of Law also has two new
teachers. They are:

Richard B. Tyler, professor of law at the
University of Missouri law school, who will
be visiting professor of law at W&L;

Steven H. Hobbs, assistant professor of

law, who was law clerk for the New Jersey
Department of the Public Advocate before
joining the W&L faculty this fall.

 

 

 

The book

Lee: The Last Years, a new book on
Robert E. Lee that deals principally with
Lee’s presidency of Washington College
(now Washington and Lee University) and
his role as the prime healer of the bitterness
between North and South after the Civil
War, will be published by Houghton Mifflin
Co. on Oct. 30.

And on that day, the author, Charles
Bracelen Flood, will be at the Washington
and Lee Bookstore to autograph copies of
the book for purchasers. The reception and
autograph party honoring the author and the
book coincides with Parents’ Weekend at
Washington and Lee.

Flood spent many days on the Washing-
ton and Lee campus doing research for the
book, which contains 12 pages of black and
white photographs, many of them from the
University’s collections.

Lee: The Last Years is being hailed by
advance reviewers as an invaluable contri-
bution to the body of Lee scholarship. Lee’s
final achievements as an innovative educa-
tor and a national conciliator of immense
influence are now recognized as ‘‘his finest

 

 

 

Charles Bracelen Flood

Bookstore reception to honor author of new book on Lee

hour, the great forgotten chapter of an ex-
traordinary life.’’

One reviewer called the book **a mas-
terpiece of narrative biography’ and
Theodore H. White commented: ‘‘Tragic
and powerful, with the rhythm of a classic,
the stupendous research subordinated to the
emotion it evokes, it is the end of the story
for which we have been waiting over a cen-
tury.”’

Flood, a resident of Richmond, Ky., is
the author of nine books, including the best-
selling Love Is a Bridge; More Lives Than
One, a Literary Guild selection; and Rise
and Fight Again, winner of the American
Revolution Round Table Award.

Lee: The Last Years, autographed by
the author on Oct. 30, may be ordered from
the Washington and Lee Bookstore at
$14.95 per copy (the price includes handling
and shipping via UPS and represents a 10%
discount for W&L alumni). Make checks
payable to the Washington and Lee Book-
store.

Send your order to Washington and Lee
Bookstore, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

ROTC names faculty

Three new staff members have joined the
faculty of Washington and Lee University’s
Military Science Department.

Maj. David F. Fowler Jr. is W&L’s new
Professor of Military Science and head of the
department.

New assistant professors of military
science are Maj. John Mears and Capt.
Bayard T. Keller Jr.

Fowler, a graduate of the University of
Nebraska at Omaha with a master’s degree
from Wichita State University, has served in
a variety of command and instructor
positions. He served two tours of duty in
Vietnam and an additional tour of duty in
Europe. His positions have included
command of an Armored Cavalry unit in
combat; command of a Division
Headquarters Company; command of an
Advisory Support Group; command of a
Criminal Investigation District; and, service
as an instructor in Armored Cavalry tactics.

Fowler replaces Col. Thomas B. Vaughn,
who is now attending Army War College in
Carlisle, Pa.

Mears, who was commissioned through
the ROTC program at the University of
Dayton, is an Air Defense Artillery Officer
with 13 years experience.

Keller, who was commissioned through
the ROTC program at Stetson University,
has recently served with the Air Defense
Artillery Training Battalion at Fort Bliss in
El Paso, Texas.

 

 

 

 

Faculty activity

—Halford R. Ryan, associate professor
of public speaking, participated in a two-
month seminar at Ohio State University over

the summer. The seminar, ‘‘Rhetoric and

Public Discourse,’’ examined speeches of
U.S. presidents Franklin Roosevelt, William
Taft, Harry S Truman, and Richard Nixon,
among others. Ryan has recently written an
article, ‘‘Harry S Truman: A Misdirected
Defense for General MacArthur’s Dismissal,’’
for Presidential Studies Quarterly.

—Sarah K. Wiant, head law librarian at
Washington and Lee, has been named to the
board of directors of the American
Association of Law Libraries, a 3,000-
member organization that includes librarians

21

 

Ww
CL GAZETTE

who serve the legal profession in courts, bar
associations, private law firms, and federal,
state and county governments in addition to
law schools.

—Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., professor of
law and director of the Frances Lewis Law
Center, has recently published a 1981
supplement to his book, /nternational
Organizations in Their Legal Setting:
Documents, Comments and Questions.

—James M. Phemister, associate
professor of law, served this summer on a
panel that examined some recent Supreme
Court decisions. The panel was part of the
51st Judicial Conference for the United
States Circuit and District Courts for the
Fourth Circuit. The conference was held at
The Homestead in Hot Springs, Va.

—Clark R. Mollenhoff, professor of
journalism, was a panelist for a seminar at
the Virginia Bar Association’s 91st annual
summer meeting in July. The panel examined
the relationship between the news media and
the law profession. Mollenhoff, former
Washington bureau chief for the Des Moines
Register and Tribune, holds a law degree
from Drake University and is adjunct
professor of law in Washington and Lee’s
School of Law.

—Frederic L. Schwab, professor of
geology, is the author of an article in the
Journal of Geology. In his article, Schwab
evaluated the validity of evolutionary models
proposed for the Western Alps based upon
his examination of the mineralogy and
chemical composition of modern ocean basin
and continental margin sediment.

—tLouis W. Hodges, professor of
religion and director of W&L’s Program in
Applied Ethics, was a member of the faculty
for the Hastings Center Workshop on Ethics
and the Professions, which was held at
Colorado College this summer. Hodges had
previously served on the workshop faculty in
1979 and 1980.

 

 

A symbol of sharing
between two different men

The following article by Kent Bernhard,
editor of the Charlotte (N.C.) News,
appeared in the May 30 issue of that
newspaper and is reprinted here with
permission.

William Anderson Epperson Jr., of
Suffolk, Va., is a sophomore at Virginia’s
Washington and Lee University, where he is
majoring in physics-engineering.

22

 

Epperson’ s drawing

Oliver Rowe, ’78, chairman of the board
of the Rowe Corp., for years has been a
prominent member of Charlotte’s business
and civic community, honored and respected
by hundreds of friends and acquaintances in
his hometown.

On the surface, the two men would seem
to have little in common with one another.
Separated by hundreds of miles and by
several generations, each could be expected
to go about his own life, essentially unaware
of the other, and each being the poorer
because of that separation.

But a picture—a charcoal sketch of a
little boy—has changed that, leading to a
contact between the two men that reminds us
that chance encounters between people are
sometimes among the most memorable.

The story begins a few months ago, when
Rowe went to Washington and Lee to
address a conference hosted by the campus
chapter of the Chi Psi fraternity, which
counted Rowe as a member during his
undergraduate days at the University of
North Carolina. Although he has been
slowed a bit in recent months by a minor
stroke, Rowe agreed to attend the conference
because of his continued interest in the
fraternity and in making the acquaintance of
bright, young people.

While visiting the Washington and Lee
campus, Rowe happened upon a sketch

hanging on the wall of a fraternity house.
The framing and the mounting were not
professional; the setting had little to
commend the picture.

‘‘But I noticed it while I was walking
through the hall,’’ Rowe said in recalling the
experience. “‘I stopped and turned around.
And the picture struck me. I thought it was
wonderful. It said so much to me.”’

The next day, as Rowe was preparing to
leave the campus, several Chi Psi brothers
had gathered around Rowe’s car to say
goodbye when Skip Epperson stepped
through the crowd carrying the picture of the
little boy he had drawn.

‘“He said he understood that I had liked
the picture and that he’s like me to have it,”’
said Rowe. ‘‘I was very touched. ”’

Epperson has had no formal training in
art. A student in a highly technical field, he
sketches for his own relaxation and
enjoyment. Rowe professes to have little
knowledge of the arts, although the creative
arts department at the University of North
Carolina at Charlotte is housed in a building
that bears his name, and although he has
long been a partisan of the Charlotte
Symphony.

Rowe came back to Charlotte, convinced
that the picture of the little boy was a
treasure, and convinced that young Skip
Epperson deserved public recognition for the
talent that Rowe saw exhibited in the sketch.

‘‘The more I looked at that picture, the
more it impressed me,’’ said Rowe.
‘Particularly because the young man who
drew it has had no training in the arts. To me
it shows a great, great talent.

‘The little boy in the picture is perfect.
The eyes . . . the eyes . . . say everything.

‘‘People deserve to see the picture.”’

Rowe took the picture to Dr. Joseph
Spence, who heads the creative arts
department at UNCC. Very carefully, the
school remounted it with professional
expertise and put the sketch in a frame.

Spence agrees that the picture is
intriguing.

‘‘It’s quite exceptional, considering that
the person who drew it has limited training,”’
says Spence. “‘The essence of humanity is
shown in the drawing. It conveys much more
than just a representation of a small boy.”’

In the next few weeks, the picture will be
hung in the Rowe Building at UNCC. For
those who stop by to look at it, they’ll
indeed see more than a representation of a
small boy.

They’ll also see a symbol of sharing
between two different men with two different
lives.

CHAPTER NEWS

NEW YORK. On June 10 the chapter in
conjunction with the Virginia Council of
Colleges, a group of Old Dominion colleges
in New York, sponsored a boat trip around
Manhattan Island. The three-hour cruise on
the Circle Line boat was a sell-out of some
500 participants of which approximately 25%
were Washington and Lee alumni and guests.
The passengers, who brought their own
picnic supper and refreshments, were
entertained with stereo music which led to
college singing, merriment, and dancing.
David Dowler, ’70, served on the steering
and arrangements committee for W&L. It is
anticipated that the boat party will become an
annual affair.

RICHMOND. The second annual W&L-
Hampden-Sydney Golf Tournament was held
on June 11 at the Hermitage Golf Club.
Washington and Lee won the event and Will
Scott, ’75, had the lowest net score for
W&L. At the trophy award ceremony beer
and pretzels were served. Participants
expressed a hope to hold a similar event next
year.

BIRMINGHAM. Recent chapter events
have included a cocktail party and picnic
hosted by Mrs. John (Milo) Hendon at her
home. Guests were served beer and chicken
barbecue by Chef Bill Schooley, ’78, and
enjoyed badminton, horseshoes and lacrosse.
Prizes were awarded in the guest golf
tournament to those who came closest to the
hole. President Charles Perry, ’73, expressed
the appreciation of the chapter to Mrs.
Hendon. On July 12 the chapter’s softball
team defeated Sewanee 27-26. Coach Hatton
Smith, ’73, did a great job of handling 21
physically deteriorated but high spirited team
members.

SAN DIEGO. Dr. Max Elliott, 60, and his
wife, Melissa, were hosts for the chapter
sunset cocktail party on the beach at the
LaJolla Beach and Tennis Club on June 14.
A gentle desert breeze provided clear skies
and a beautiful sunset for the 30 alumni and
guests who enjoyed the bar and hors
d’oeuvres.

JACKSONVILLE. The chapter held its
annual social hour and business meeting at

 

   

BIRMINGHAM—Victorious softball players (front row) are Jim Nolan, ’74; Brad Kidd, ’73; Hatton Smith,
’73; Charles Perry, ’73 ; (standing) John McNeil, ’71; David Proctor, ’81; Dr. John Poynor, ’62 (hidden);
Duncan Pace, ’74; Billy Wells, ’75; Sandy Stradtman, ’77; Mel Dugan, ’80; Billy Hiden, ’75 ; Leake Wornom,
77; Mark Hoffman, ’77; Crawford William, ’69; Johnny Scruggs, ’77; Bill Schooley, ’78; Julie Webb
(cheerleader); Kim Ratliff, 76; Holman Head, ’78. (Not pictured: Alex Nading, ’71, and Stark Sydnor,
66, ’73L.)

 
   

JACKSONVILLE—New chapter officers are Lee Redmond, ’74, secretary-treasurer; Hap Stein, ’74, |
president; and Jerry Weedon, ’70, vice president.

the Seminole Club on June 16. Hal Catlin,
°72, presided over the meeting. Assistant
alumni secretary, Buddy Atkins, 68, gave a
brief update report on events at Washington
and Lee then answered numerous questions

from the floor. The final order of business
was the election of officers for the coming
year. They are: Hap Stein, ’74, president;
Jerry Weedon, ’70, vice president; and Lee
Redmond, ’74, secretary-treasurer.

23

RECORD ANNUAL FUND

Giving In Support of Operating Expenses Reaches AIl-

Propelled by the generosity of alumni,
parents, and friends and by the hard work of
volunteer Class Agents, Washington and
Lee’s 1980-81 Annual Fund reached new
highs in several categories, including the

final total.

Unrestricted gifts toward the University’s
day-to-day operating expenses amounted to a
record net of $1,170,941, an increase of 12
percent over last year’s net of $1,045,076,

the previous all-time high.
Other 1980-81 records:

—Total number of contributors: 6,266,
an increase of 251 over last year.
—Average gift of $189, compared with

$177 last year.

—Number and total amount of gifts at
the Lee Associates level ($1,000 or more):
367 gifts totaling $615,676, up from 319 and

$540,946 last year.

—Number and total amount of gifts at
the Colonnade Club level ($100 to $999):
2,591 gifts totaling $500,018, up from 2,406

and $423,974 last year.

The average Lee Associate gift was
$1,678 and the average Colonnade Club gift
was $193. Together members of the Lee
Associates and Colonnade Club gave
$1,115,694—94 percent of the fund total—
and made up 47.3 percent of all fund

contributors.

Total gifts to the 1980-81 fund exceeded
the goal by nearly $71,000 and provided
more than 8.5 percent of the University’s

operating budget.
Reunion classes

 

the academic and law

classes of ’31, ’36, °41, °46, °51, °56, 61,

"66, °71, and ’76—achieved outstanding
results in increasing their gifts over the
previous year. The reunion academic classes
(including *46 law) increased their giving by
40.8 percent to $166,386, compared with
$118,136 in 1979-80, and the reunion law
classes gave $39,494, an increase of 60.5
percent. Combined, the reunion classes
increased their gifts by 44.2 percent for a
total of $205,880 against $142,746 the
previous year.

The University counts toward its annual
fund only gifts actually received by June 30,
the close of the fund year, and does not

Time High of $1,170,941

 

include restricted or capital gifts. (The 1980-
81 net total was reached by deducting
$16,018 in unpaid pledges at the end of the
fund year; many of these pledges have been
paid since June 30 and will be applied to the
1981-82 fund.)

James W. McClintock II, ’53A, was
chairman of the 1980-81 Annual Fund and
also Academic Alumni chairman; William F.
Ford, ’61L, was Law Alumni chairman;
Ralph Kemp was Current Parents chairman,
and W. M. Kempe was Past Parents
chairman; Guy T. Steuart II was Robert E.
Lee Associates chairman.

 

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND

Academic Alumni 80-81
79-80
Law Alumni 80-8 |
79-80
Current Parents 80-8 |
79-80
Past Parents 80-8 |
79-80
Friends 80-8 1
79-80
TOTALS 80-8 |
79-80

June 30, 1981

Donors
4,756
4,600

972
873

283
330
166
163
89

49
6,266
6,015

Dollars
903,050
822,418

151,687
124,620
58,979
55,050
62,516
41,542
10,727
21,856
$1,186,959
$1,065 ,486

PFA AFA AFA AA AHF

CURRENT PARENTS—Ralph Kemp, Chairman 9
‘0
%o Avg. Area Area Chairman Donors Dollars Part.
Part. Gift I H. A. Baumgaertner 62 $ 6,568 38.3
37.0 $190 II G. T. Alfano 42 4,295 27.6
36.5 $179 Il F. K. Turner 38 ae 4
IV G. LeCuyer 22 4,7 ;
soe nr V F. K. Saunders 18 2,285 14.9
VI R. H. Park 30 6,847 16.6
a $208 VII W.-K. Christovich 20 8222 20.4
24.7 $167 VIII —_R.G. Sheldon 27 5.858 25.7
27.2 $377 IX T.B. Rentschler 24 7,385 26.1
22.4 $255 X At Large | 6,024 ——
— $121 Total 283 $58,979 23.0
— $457
36.9 $189 PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman
35.6 $177 W.M. Kempe 166 $62,516 27.2

 

 

24

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1980-81

ACADEMIC CLASSES—J. William McClintock III, Chairman

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
GROUP I-A—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman

All Other W.-C. Washburn 23 $ 9,010
12A W. L. Webster 7 1,400
13A E. S. Delaplaine l 200
14A A. W. McCain* 2 481
ISA R. N. Latture* 9 3,500
16A E. B. Shultz 3 675
17A W. J. Cox* 10 3,980
18A A. Beall 9 2,970
20A J. G. Evins 10 1,275
21A S. L. Raines 6 400
23A F. B. Hurt* 24 3,553
24A R. M. Jenkins* 26 6,427
TOTAL 135 $ 33,871
GROUP II-A—H. G. Jahncke, Vice Chairman*

25A E. T. Andrews* 27 $ 8,378
26A T. T. Moore* 30 7,791
27A G. E. Burks* 39 6,872
28A P. Cohen* 49 20,521
29A T. G. Gibson* 44 13,215
30A L. P. Brown 62 18,315
31A S. Sanders* 42 35,776
32A E. P. Martin* 66 6,982
TOTAL* 389 $117,850
GROUP III-A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman

33A C. J. Longacre 53 $ 13,530
34A S. Mosovich 78 12,750
35A N. J. Rahall 59 6,220
360A G. W. Harrison 77 17,596
37A D. R. Moore 62 13,510
38A S. N. Baker* 76 27,400
39A H. P. Avery 69 20,063
TOTAL 474 $111,069
GROUP IV-A—E. R. Marable, Vice Chairman

40A T. E. Bruce 81 $ 71,448
41A A. T. Fleishman 71 14,404
42A N. H. Brower 78 22,530
43A A. D. Darby 90 17,989
44A G. T. Wood 75 14,934
45A M. M. Hirsh* 60 17,537
46A D. S. Hillman 52 11,046
47TA W. G. Merrin 28 5,426
48A H. R. Gates* 26 8,067
49A M. W. Saurs 91 19,187
TOTAL 652 $202,568
GROUP V-A—C. D. Hurt Jr., Vice Chairman

SOA W. N. Clements* 101 $ 21,593
SIA J. B. McCutcheon 108 23,992
52A D. M. Murray* 98 19,155
53A L. A. Putney* 92 18,081
54A F. A. Parsons* 63 28,293
S55A R. N. Fishburn* 58 15,665
56A W.H. Houston 79 13,920
STA J. B. Howard 78 ~ 13,978
S58A V. W. Holleman* 79 20,571
S9A T. B. Bryant* 98 16,318
TOTAL 854 $191,566
GROUP VI-A—P. A. Agelasto III, Vice Chairman*

60A L. B. Allen 81 $ 17,480
61A E. B. Olds 95 16,477
62A W. D. Outman* 105 17,542
63A G. O. Thornhill 92 10,927
64A C. H. Sheild* 121 16,563
65A J. W. Jennings* 116 14,540
66A J. D. Humphries* 109 13,345
67A W.H. Jeffress 112 10,140
68A C. H. Capito* 110 14,321
69A M. L. Halford* 137 17,545
TOTAL* 1,078 $148,880
GROUP VII-A—G. A. Frierson III, Vice Chairman

70A J. A. Meriwether 104 $ 14,809

%o

Part.

32.9
70.0
11.1
58.3
60.0
30.0
58.8
40.9
33.3
42.9

37.1
40.5

33.8
40.0
41.1
57.0
41.5
55.9
53.7
48.5
47.3

41.1
54.9
45.4
ol
aie
48.1]
33.5
44.1]

51.6
36.2
40.6

43.9
43.8
40.3
39.4
31.7
47.4
42.6

33.3
46.4
43.8
41.6
28.9
29.3
33.8
36.4
32.9
45.0
37.1

33.6
42.2
39.6
32.6
42.5
43.1
35.0
39.2
36.3
42.9
38.7

30.3

 

TIA R. E. Minor 122
72A S. W. Robinson 99
7T3A G. A. Frierson 117
T4A W. P. Wallace 109
T5A J. V. Baird* 117
760A J. L. Keiger 124
TTA T. Atwood 86
7T8A J. L. Bruch* 116
T9A C. S. Jones* 98
80A P. C. Cornett* 80
TOTAL 1,172

LAW CLASSES—W. F. Ford, Chairman

Class Class Agent Donors
GROUP I-L—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman*
All Other W. C. Washburn* 27
23L W. W. Ogden 3
26L R. O. Bentley* 4
29L S.C. Strite 3
TOTAL* 37
GROUP IJ-L—M. P. Burks III, Vice Chairman*
30L L. H. Davis 6
31L M. M. Weinberg* 1]
32L M. P. Burks 12
33L F. R. Bigham* 12
34L S. W. Wise 9
35L W. W. Fowlkes 8
36L W. L. Martin 5
37L J. Arnold 11
38L H. E. Wilson* 8
39L E. L. Smith* 23
40L O. B. McEwan* 9
41L J. E. Perry* 15
42L R. O. McDonald 8
TOTAL* 137
GROUP III-L—M. T. Herndon, Vice Chairman
48L C. R. Allen 33
49L J. B. Porterfield* 26
SOL W. J. Ledbetter 25
SIL S. H. Shott 34
52L J. C. Reed* 25
53L R. L. Banse 8
54L D. R. Klenk* 17
S5L R. W. Hudgins 10
56L C. L. Forbes 6
57L O. P. Pollard* 17
58L R. E. Stroud 10
59L J. F. Richards 10
TOTAL 221
GROUP IV-L—H. V. White Jr., Vice Chairman
60L I. N. Smith 15
61L H. M. Bates* 18
62L C. D. Broll 14
63L L. Sargeant 13
64L R. K. Morton 22
65L L. G. Griffiths 19
66L C. G. Johnson* 28
67L J. C. Treadway 18
68L M. L. Lowry 28
69L D. D. Redmond* 31
TOTAL 206
GROUP V-L—J. S. Kline, Vice Chairman*
70L R. A. Vinyard* 23
TIL H. W. Walker* 20
72L H. L. Handley 20
73L M. H. Squires* 47
74L L. H. Framme* 37
75L C. J. Habenicht 26
76L J. L. Spear 44
77L D. M. Thomas* 37
78L D. Swope* 31
79L J. F. Murphy* 47
80L J. K. Boyden* 39
TOTAL 371

*Met or exceeded goal

12,070
10,514
9,860
6,974
17,882
7,760
4,330
5,440
4,785
2,792
$ 97,216

Dollars

$ 6,875
1,250
500

400

$ 9,025

$ 960
12,400
3,910
1,500
5,375
3,300
400
3,195
3.129
1,860
6,144
3,660
1,300
$47,729

$ 4,780
6,798
4,578
4,540
5,105

875
2,790
1,150
1,252
6,928
2,085
2,735

$43,616

$ 2,701
9,778
1,478
1,688
1,852
1,450
2,725
2,845
3,310
2;375

$30,202

$ 2,450
1,520
1,540
2,645
2,748
1,285
3,219
1,265
1,508
1,725
1,210

$21,115

a5
29.7
31.5
29.9
33.9
Thnk
23.3
31.4
26. 1
19.3
29.3

%
Part.

33.8
37.5
80.0
25.0
35.2

60.0
78.6
63.2
70.6
52.9
57.1
45.5
61.1
53.3
74.2
45.0
62.5
25.0
56.6

45.2
38.2
54.3
45.9
50.0
24.2
60.7
27.8
28.6
53.1
38.5
29.4
42.4

40.5
45.0
35.9
36.1

41.3
56.0
32.7
38.4
43.1
41.4

46.0
34.5
28.2
47.5
42.0
32.9
55.7
45.7
40.3
37.0
33.1
40.0

25

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to ‘“‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘“steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $120.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $105.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

26

1924

THE Rev. A. EMBERSON JOHNSON of Staunton, Va.,
retired in July after 52 years as a Presbyterian mini-
ster. He was an active minister for 43 years and a
supply minister for 9 years.

1925

Cary A. Moomaw is now working in a licensed
home for adults in Roanoke, Va. He retired from
public works in 1961 after working for many years in
the construction business in Brazil, Argentina, Iraq
and Iran as well as in this country.

1928

Dr. LESTER A. BROWN continues to work full time in
private practice. He was promoted to clinical pro-
fessor in surgery for ear, nose, and throat at Emory
University School of Medicine.

1929

WILLIAM F. CHANDLER, retired president of Porter
Coatings Division of Porter Paint Co. in Louisville,
Ky., is active in the Episcopal Church Diocese of
Kentucky. He still plays in senior golf tournaments.

193]

Dr. LUTHER W. KING has continued his studies and
recently earned his Ph.D. degree from Columbia
University in New York.

1933

J. FRED Cook is now operating the Cook Land Co. in
Waynesboro, Va. He taught distributive education
for nine years and prior to that was in the retail
hardware business for 30 years.

A. P. THOMSON is owner and operator of Golden
Acres Orchard in Front Royal, Va. Unlike most
modern commercial orchardists, Thomson has never
used any ‘‘agribiz’’ chemical on his 35-acre farm.
The orchard produces seven different varieties of
organically grown apples in addition to unfiltered
apple juice and apple cider vinegar. His products are
marketed primarily through mail order. In 1979 Thom-
son founded an organization called Friends of the
Farm which has already opened several demonstration
sites across the country to give people an opportunity
to learn the techniques of organic food production
from actual working operations.

1935

E. W. (ED) CHAPPELL JR. retired after over 44 years
with E. I. duPont Co. He now serves as a consultant
for a small locally owned industrial equipment sales
company in Chattanooga, Tenn. Chappell is a mem-
ber of the Georgia-Tennessee Regional Health Com-
mission and is on the advisory board of the Hamilton
County Health Department. He is also active in the
Boy Scout program as a merit badge counselor.

  

Arthur Basile, ’39; Robert Basile, 38; David Basile, ’36

1936

The Ring-tum Phi of Oct. 18, 1935, carried a picture
of three brothers, ARTHUR BASILE, ’39, ROBERT
BASILE, ’38, and DAVID BASILE, ’36, who were then
freshman, sophomore, and senior respectively. The
student newspaper said that they were ‘‘the first trio
of brothers to be registered in the University for
several years.’’ Recently the Basile brothers were
photographed again in the same order. (See picture
above). Arthur Basile is a Baptist minister in Mil-
waukee; Robert Basile is professor emeritus of
geography at the University of Toledo; and David
Basile is professor emeritus of geography at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

HARRY J. BREITHAUPT JR. recently retired as vice
president for law of the Association of American
Railroads. He expects to devote the foreseeable future
to management of personal investments.

CHARLES B. Cross Jr. of Chesapeake, Va., is the
author of a book, A Navy for Virginia, which is to be
published this summer by the Virginia Independence
Bicentennial Commission.

Dr. G. ROGER My ers, has retired after 40 years in
medical practice. He lives in Coronado, Calif.

1937

ROBERT V. COLE has retired from Union Carbide and
lives in Hudson, Ohio.

1938

Dr. ROBERT M. BASILE, professor of geography at
the University of Toledo, retired June 12 and was
named professor emeritus. Basile joined the UT
faculty in 1969. He was on the faculties at Ohio State
from 1950 to 1969; Iowa State, 1946-47, and North-
western Oklahoma State 1940-43. Basile was instru-
mental in the installation of a weather station at the
University of Toledo, making it one of the first Ohio
educational institutions with such a teaching device
for meteorology and climatology.

AL SHERMAN has completed 35 years of teaching at
the University of Bridgeport (Conn.). He is retired
from the U.S. Naval Reserves with the rank of lieu-
tenant commander.

ROBERT M. WHITE II, editor and publisher of the
Evening Ledger in Mexico, Mo., and a former mem-
ber of the W&L Alumni Board of Directors, gave an
address before the Missouri Public Expenditure Sur-
vey at their annual meeting in Kansas City on May
13. The address was entitled ‘‘The Press and Your
First Amendment Rights.’’ The Public Expenditure
Survey is an organization of Missouri businesses
dedicated to more responsible public expenditure.

1939

During 1980 W. A. (ArT) BEETON was acting ad-
ministrator and director of personal and public rela-
tions for the Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexing-
ton, Va.

  

 

 

S. H. Lockett, ’46 F. Love Jr.,
HAROLD L. FENTON Jr. retired October 1, 1980,
after 41 years of service with Anaconda Industries.
He travels extensively and was recently in New Zea-
land and Australia with a stop-over in Tahiti. He
resides in Waterbury, Conn.

JOHN L. HAWKINS II is executive director of Towing
and Recovery Association of America with offices in
Winter Park, Fla.

JOHN A. PARKINS retired on Dec. 31, 1980, from the
Polymer Products Division of E. I. duPont in Wil-
mington, Del.

THE REv. ELLISON A. SMYTH was elected pastor
emeritus of the Blacksburg (Va.) Presbyterian Church
having served from 1948 to 1968. It was the longest
tenure held by any pastor of that church.

ARTHUR BASILE (See 1936.)

194]

ROBERT H. ApDams has retired from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Defense, Weapons Systems Evaluation. He
now resides in Kilmarnock, Va.

WILLIAM L. (BILL) EvANsS Jr. retired September
1980 from American Airlines after 38 years as a pilot.
Since retirement he has been practicing law. In addi-
tion Evans, with two partners, has organized an inter-
national freight airlines to be known as North Ameri-
can Airlines. Evans, with several domestic contracts
already in force, expects to receive international cer-
tification before the close of 1981.

CHARLES LANDRUM of Lexington, Ky., has been
elected president of the Kentucky Bar Association.

GEORGE Murray JR. is with the Atlanta food broker-
age firm of Murray-Hett Brokerage Co., Inc.

1942

CLARENCE L. Tarpy has been named by the Secre-
tary of Agriculture as deputy administrator of state
and county operations for the Agricultural Stabiliza-
tion and Conservation Service. In this position Tardy
will be responsible for supervising the administration
of Federal farm programs through ASCS offices in all
States and Puerto Rico. Tardy is owner and operator
of a multiple farming operation of approximately
1,300 acres in Rockbridge County, Virginia. Tardy
was eastern regional director of ASCS from 1976 to
1977 and he also served as vice president of Virginia
Farm Bureau Federation.

1944

JOHN H. SHERMAN, after 35 years in the paper busi-
ness, has retired and moved from Darien, Conn., to
Hampstead, N.C.

1946

FIELDER Cook has just finished directing a four-hour

  

   

50.

film with Bette Davis for NBC which is expected to
be aired in the fall.

S. HOBART LOCKETT has been named senior vice
president of Marsh & McLennan, Inc. He was pre-
viously manager of the hull department of the Marine
and Offshore Division of the company’s New York
operation. Lockett joined Marsh & McLennan, one
of the nation’s largest insurance brokerage firms, in
1951.

1947

RUSSELL M. DRAKE of El Segundo, Calif., is a photo
journalist and a writer.

JOHN A. MCWHOoRTER, a prominent attorney in
Washington, D.C., has been retained by the govern-
ment of Panama to represent it in connection with a
large underground hydroelectric project. McWhorter
expects to do considerable travelling to and from
Panama.

WARREN G. MErRIN, general manager of WSGN-
AM in Birmingham, Ala., has been named to the
additional post of vice president of Harte-Hanks
Radio, Inc., the radio group of Harte-Hanks Com-
munications, Inc.

Dr. WILLIAM H. PIFER has practiced otolaryngology
and head and neck surgery in Winchester, Va., for 24
years. He has two sons who have graduated from
Washington and Lee and one son who is currently a
sophomore.

1948

JOSEPH E. BLACKBURN, who joined the legal staff of
Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. in 1957 and
was named vice president for regulatory and public
affairs in 1974, has been elected vice president for
financial and public affairs and secretary of the com-
pany. Blackburn served in the Virginia House of
Delegates from 1954 to 1958.

JUDGE J. RANDOLPH TUCKER JR. recently retired as
judge of the 13th Judicial Circuit. He lives in Rich-
mond, Va.

1949

E. McGRuDe_R FakIs is a visiting professor of law at
Case Western Reserve in Cleveland.

PERRY E. MANN, a former prosecuting attorney for
Summers County, is now in private law practice in
Hinton, W.Va.

1950

FRANK Love Jr. is the president-elect of the
State Bar of Georgia. He will take office in June
1982. Love is a partner in the Atlanta law firm of
Powell, Goldstein, Frazer and Murphy.

1951

JOHN P. BOwEN, a Tidewater newspaperman, has
written a book, These Primal Years, published by

eT

   

R. E. Bradford, ’54

Exposition Press. The book is about a young man’s
effort to find his way through a tangle of personal
relationships to some clear sense of his own life.

FRANK LOVE Jr. (See 1950.)

1952

PauL D. WEILL is with Aetna Life and Casualty
Insurance Co. and recently became the structured
settlement consultant for the benefits planning service
and sales of the life division marketing department.
He is a resident of Weatogue, Conn.

1953

Dr. ROBERT B. BELL has moved from the Medical
Center at Clarksburg, W. Va., to Biloxi, Miss., where
he is with the Veterans Administration Medical Center
in psychology.

THOMAS B. PERKINS is manager for Travelers Insur-
ance Co. in Washington, D.C. He and his wife,
Carolyn, live in Oakton, Va.

1954

ROBERT E. BRADFORD has been named president and
chief executive officer of the National Restaurant
Association, the leadership organization of the food-
service industry. From 1958 to 1968, Bradford was
administrative assistant to former Virginia Congress-
man Richard Poff and later held the same position
with Sen. Bill Brock of Tennessee. Bradford held top
management positions at Firestone Tire and Rubber
Co. and the Food Marketing Institute before joining
the National Restaurant Association in January 1981.
He and his wife, Nancy, have one daughter and they
live in Great Falls, Va.

THE REV. PETER R. DOYLE received his doctorate in
theology last year from Toledo Bible College. He
wrote his thesis on Jonathan Edwards. Doyle is a
minister in Auburn, Ala.

THE REV. WALTER EVANS SMITH, an Episcopal
minister in Atlanta, Ga., has been elected secretary of
the Georgia Association for Marriage and Family
Therapy. He is an adjunct professor on the faculty at
Emory University and president of the Atlanta Group
Psychotherapy Society. Smith has also been elected
to the board of directors of The Bridge, a treatment
center in Atlanta for children and families.

JAMES R. TrimMM has his own law practice near his
home in Potomac, Md. He recently completed a term
as president of the Montgomery County Bar Associa-
tion.

Dr. WILLIAM C. WILLIAMS, a dentist in Richmond,
Va., has been elected president of the board of direc-
tors of Needle’s Eye Ministries, Inc., an inter-
denominational Christian outreach ministry to the
business and professional community.

JUDGE WILEY R. WRIGHT Jr., chief judge of the

28

  

Dr. W. J. Stober, ’55 W. J. Gibbs, ’60

circuit court of Alexandria, Va., is also vice chairman
of the executive committee of the Judicial Conference
of Virginia.

1955

LOWELL D. Hamric, formerly general manager of
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. in Richmond
has been appointed vice president for comptroller
operations. He joined C&P in 1955.

Dr. WILLIAM J. STOBER has been named chairman of
the department of economics at the University of
Kentucky in Lexington. He has been a professor of
economics since 1969 and served as departmental
director of graduate studies for three years. Stober
and his wife live on a farm outside of Versailles, Ky.

W. D. MANNING lives in Beachwood, Ohio. He is
employed by Lubrizol Development where he is vice
president. He and his wife, Carol, have three daugh-
ters.

JUDGE WILEY R. WRIGHT JR. (See 1954.)

1957

GAVIN LETTS, chief judge of the 4th District Court of
Appeals in Palm Beach, Fla., was featured recently
in a profile article in the Daily News, a local news-
paper, as one of the influential people who have
shaped the character of Palm Beach. He is a former
president of the Florida Bar Association. An active
and avid tennis player, Letts is a former president of
the Florida Lawn Tennis Association.

1958

CoL. Ross G. PICKUS is stationed in Washington,
D.C., at the Military Traffic Management Command
as director of reserve affairs and training. He gradu-
ated in the class of 1980 from the Army War College.

1959

DwiGut L. Guy is practicing law in Seattle, Wash.,
under the firm name of Guy & Loosmore.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. H. HUTSON MESSER, a son,
Graham Hutson, on Aug. 7, 1980. Messer practices

obstetrics and gynecology in Tallahassee, Fla.

WILLIAM J. GipBs, formerly with the South Carolina
National Bank, has joined the First National Bank of
South Carolina in Charleston as vice president. Gibbs
is a commercial loan officer. He is married to the
former Jenny Morton of Englewood, N.J., and the
couple has two children.

THE REV. PETER J. LEE will spend the fall of 1981 on
sabbatical in London with his wife, Kristy, and their
two children. He has been rector of the Chapel of the
Cross in Chapel Hill, N.C., for ten years. In 1981 he
was elected president of the standing committee of

 
  

   

D. W. Thalacker, "61 |

the Episcopal Diocese of North Carolina and a deputy
of the Diocese to the Episcopal Church’s 1982 Gen-
eral Convention.

E. PETER LITTON is now in Austin, Texas, where he
and his brother own and operate a restaurant called
The Avenue.

1961

CmprR. HAYES I. GORDON is currently serving as
game director at the Center for War Games at the
Naval War College, in Newport, R.I.

DONALD W. THALACKER, architect, author and di-
rector of the General Services Administration Art-in-
Architecture Program, has written a book, The Place
of Art in the World of Architecture. The book, offici-
ally released in June 1980 by Chelsea House Publish-
ers, tells the story of Federal Art Commissions—how
artists are selected, their process of artistic concept
development and public reaction to installed artworks.
Thalacker lives in Chevy Chase, Md., with his wife,
Helene, and two children.

1962
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. LEYBURN Mossy Jr., a
daughter, Mercedes Leigh, on April 25, 1981, in
Lynchburg, Va. Mosby has been reappointed
assistant general district court judge and juvenile
domestic court judge for the 24th Judicial Circuit of
Virginia.

STEPHEN W. RUTLEDGE is now in Dallas, Texas,
where he is senior vice president and account service
director for the advertising firm of Bozell & Jacobs,
Inc.

1963

H. MICHAEL WALKER has been elected president of
Guest Quarters Development Corp. in Norfolk. Guest
Quarters is a hotel chain in which all accommodations
are suites. They presently have a 349 suite hotel
under construction in Houston’s Galleria.

1964

JOSEPH R. BURKART is vice president for development
of the Polytechnic Institute of New York.

FRED E. Cooper, of Flowers Industries, Inc., in
Thomasville, Ga., was elected state chairman of the
Georgia Republican party at the GOP State Conven-
tion in Atlanta in May. Cooper will remain in his
position at Flowers during the two-year term as chair-
man. He joined Flowers in 1973 as general counsel,
was elected secretary in 1974 and to the board of
directors in 1975. In 1978 he was appointed to the
additional responsibilities of corporate vice president.

STANLEY FINK is serving as secretary of the board of
trustees of the Union County (N.J.) Bar Association.

Dr. MATTHEW H. HULBERT is senior physical chem-
ist with International Minerals and Chemical Corp. in
Terre Haute, Ind.

W. B. (Buck) OGILviE, formerly with Agrow Man-
agement Corp. in Houston, Texas, has now become
vice president of corporate development with Tom-
linson Interests, Inc., a Houston firm engaged in the
broad field of oil interests.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. WooDWARD JR. a
daughter, Susan Carter Anderson, on April 29, 1981.
The young lady joins an older brother and the family
lives in Suffolk, Va.

Dr. W. KLINE BOLTON, associate professor of inter-
nal medicine at the University of Virginia, delivered
a report in June 1981 to the International Congress of
Nephrology meeting in Athens. The report was on the
success of a drug treatment program he pioneered for
patients with a certain type of glomerulonephritis.
The drug treatment provides lower health care costs
to these patients because renal dialysis and kidney
transplants are no longer necessary.

VICTOR R. GALEF is vice president of market products
and strategy for Menley & James Laboratories, a
division of Smith Kline Corp. in Philadelphia, Pa. He
resides in Malvern.

On March 1, 1981, PAUL W. HAMMACK Jr. merged
his law practice into the firm of Gabeler and Gastley
in McLean, Va.

WOODARD D. OPENO lives in Portsmouth, N.H., and
does historical and architectural research for the
Museum of Afro-American History in Boston. He
ran the 1981 Boston Marathon in a time of 2:58 and
was recently elected a proprietor of the Portsmouth
Athenaeum.

J. LEYBURN Mossy Jr. (See 1962.)

1966
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. D. HUmMpnuries III, a son,
James Donald IV, on April 16, 1981. Humphries is a
practicing attorney in Atlanta, Ga., and was recently
named president-elect of the Lawyers Club of Atlanta.

Dr. and Mrs. JAMES E. REDENBAUGH, a daughter,
Marcie Edwards, on Jan. 15, 1981. Redenbaugh
practices medicine in Danville, Pa.

THOMAS R. KELSEY is practicing real estate and oil
and gas law with the Houston firm of Hutcheson and
Grundy. He has been a trustee of the Houston Ballet
Foundation for five years. Kelsey and his wife, Ann,
have three children, William, Margaret and Mavis.

1967
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. GuyTE P. McCorp III, ason,
Guyte Pierce IV on March 14, 1981, in Tallahassee,
Fla. McCord is a partner in the law firm of Spector,
Tunnicliff and McCord.

In May GALEN E. ANDERSEN traveled in Germany to
attend briefings by vehicle and engine manufacturers

on the status of their plans for the commercial pro-
duction of methanol fueled vehicles.

Kip ARMSTRONG is a professor at Bloomsburg State
College in Pennsylvania. He will teach a course in
Salzburg, Austria, this summer. Armstrong is also
coach of the Bloomsburg Lacrosse Club.

EDWARD B. ROBERTSON received an accelerated pro-
motion to major in the Air Force Reserve in April
1981. He is stationed in West Germany.

1968

MARRIAGE: CHARLES M. BERGER and Jean C. Yar-
borough on June 20, 1981, in Raleigh, N.C. Berger is
senior counsel and assistant secretary of AMP, Inc.,
of Harrisburg, Pa., manufacturers of electrical con-
necting and switching devices. They live in Hum-
melstown.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. BARTLETT III, a
daughter, Polly Graves, on April 16, 1981, in Balti-
more, Md. She has a 4-year-old brother, Matthew.

Barry J. LEVIN is a partner in the Philadelphia law
firm of Fox, Rothschild, O’Brien and Frankel where
he specializes in estate and trust law. He and his wife,
Gail, have two daughters, Rebecca, 4 and Anna, 1.
He is president of HIAS and Council Migration Serv-
ice and vice president of the Jewish Campus Activities
Board in addition to other community activities.

1969

MARRIAGE: DavibD G. GORDON and Margaret de-
Rosset McLean on May 23, 1981, in Fayetteville,
N.C. The best man was J. Tucker Morse, ’67, and
ushers included Joseph H. Davenport III, ’69, Alexis
Tarumianz, ’69, and Joseph Lykes III ’70. They live
in New York where Gordon is a partner in G. X.
Clarke and Co., dealers in U.S. government securi-
ties.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. Warp Dorer, a daughter,
Leigh Suzanne, on June 15, 1981. The young lady
joins a 3-year-old set of twins, a brother, Craig, anda
sister, Karen. The family lives in West Orange, N.J.

MasJ. RICHARD H. BASSETT was reassigned duty with
the U.S. Army Logistics Assistance Office in Heidel-
berg, Germany, during April 1980. His duties are to
resolve material readiness problems with tactical
electronics warfare systems.

Dr. R. GILLIS CAMPBELL was recently transferred
within Ciba-Geigy Corp. to Mobile, Ala., where he
is now in the analytical and quality control depart-
ment. He and his wife have three children.

JEFFREY P. CROPSEY was recently awarded the degree
of Doctor of Education by the University of Southern
California. Cropsey is currently serving as chief of
academic branch headquarters of the U.S. Air Force
in Europe and is responsible for college and univer-
sity programs operating on U.S. Air Force bases in

 

Keep Us Up To Date

correct address.

Name

Be a reporter for Washington and Lee. Use the space below to send us news of your-
self so that we can publish it in these columns and keep your file current. And do we
have your correct address? Each address change that comes to the alumni office from
the post office costs 25 cents. Please help us avoid this expense by sending us your

Class

 

Address

 

City, State, Zip

 

News Item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29

CLASS NOTES

Western Europe. He and his wife, Christa, live in
Frankfort, Germany.

THE REv. W. WILLIAM MELNYK will be ordained a
deacon in the Episcopal Church in June 1981 and will
serve the Church of the Ridge, a cluster of four small
missions in the Diocese of Upper South Carolina. He
and his wife and two children live in Leesville, S.C.

ROBERT A. MOSSELLE has opened his own general
law practice with emphasis on entertainment and
personal injury law in San Francisco.

STEPHEN A. SHARP has been appointed general
counsel for the Federal Communications Commis-
sion. Prior to his FCC appointment, Sharp was a
member of the Reagan transition team and had a
private law practice. He lives in Alexandria, Va.,
with his wife, Lynn, and a daughter.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MIcHaAEL C. G. NEER, a
daughter, Cary Brooke, on May 12, 1981. She joins a
3-year-old brother and the family lives in Rochester,
N.Y. Neer begins his sixth season as head basketball
coach at the University of Rochester after a record of
20 wins last season in Division III competition.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH C. WALLACE JR., a
son, Peyton Thomas, on April 21, 1981, in Philadel-
phia.

STUART C. FAUBER is presently assistant vice presi-
dent and commercial loan officer at First & Merchants
National Bank in Lynchburg, Va. He recently receiv-
ed his M.B.A. degree from Lynchburg College and
was promoted to lieutenant commander in the Navy
Reserve. He and his wife, Beth, have two daughters.

EDWARD A. (NED) POWELL Jr. has been elected
president of Miller Mfg. Co., Inc., a millwork, wood-
en box, manufactured homes, and other wood pro-
ducts firm in Richmond, Va. Powell led a group of
investors who recently purchased the company. Prior
to joining Miller, Powell was associated with First
National Bank of Boston and the Sea Pines Co.

WILLIAM A. VAUGHAN has been officially nomi-
nated as an assistant secretary of the Department of
Energy (Environmental Protection, Safety and Pre-
paredness) and confirmation was expected in Sep-
tember. Since 1976, Vaughan has been director of
energy management for the manufacturing staff of
General Motors Corp. He joined General Motors in
1970 as an attorney on the corporation’s legal staff. In
1971 he was named attorney-in-charge of the en-
vironmental law section to supervise legal activities
involving GM’s plant and engineering operations and
related energy matters. Before joining General
Motors, Vaughan was assistant professor of civil
engineering at VMI. He is a registered professional
engineer as well as a member of the American Bar
Association and the State Bar of Michigan. The
Vaughan family has moved from Michigan to Oakton,
Va.

30

  

   

W. A. Vaughan, '70L A. V. Carr Jr., 7IL

C. DOUGLAS WALKER, financial economist to the
International Monetary Fund, was elected in Novem-
ber 1980 to serve additionally as staff representative
to the organization’s staff retirement plan. He also
serves aS a member of the board of directors of
Washington Circle Associates, a limited real estate
development partnership.

LARRY W. WERTZ, formerly with the Air Force, is
now a member of the law firm of Williams, Brasfield,
& Wertz, in St. Petersburg, Fla. He and his wife have
two children.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. E. STAMAN OGILVIE, a son,
Brian Staman, on July 7, 1981, in Houston.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. DONALD E. WooDARD Jr., a
daughter, Catherine Virginia, on Nov. 4, 1980, in
Houston. She has an older sister, Mary Elizabeth,
who is now 2 years old. |

H. JOHN ACKERMAN is the manager for credit analysis
in the Industrial Gas Division—U.S.A. of Air Pro-
ducts and Chemicals, Inc., in Allentown, Pa. On
May 1, 1981, he became a certified management
accountant.

Dr. THOMAS M. BEAZLIE practices internal medicine
and nephrology in Hampton, Va. He and his wife,
Lee, have three children.

WILLIAM P. CANBY serves as a vice president in the
National Division of Trust Company of Georgia Bank
in Atlanta. Canby was designated head of the eastern
region.

ALBERT V. CARR JR. has joined Duke Power Co. in
Charlotte, N.C., as an assistant general counsel. He
had been with the Washington law firm of Lowen-
stein, Newman, Reis and Axelrad and had experience
as a counsel with the Federal Power Commission and
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

Dr. Lucius D. Cray is currently a resident in general
surgery at St. Luke’s Hospital in New York City.

ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND recently became assistant to
the president for the Development Energy Group,
Inc., a coal operation firm based in Memphis, Tenn.
The company has interests in coal mining in Alabama,
Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, and Tennessee. He will
continue to live in Spartanburg, S.C.

THOMAS W. CLYDE is administrative assistant to the
president of T. B. Butler Publishing Co., Inc., pub-
lishers of daily newspapers in Tyler, Texas, and the
East Texas area. He continues his interest in music
and art collecting. Clyde earned his M.B.A. from
Southern Methodist University in 1975.

BARRY W. MITCHELL is a fourth-year surgical resi-
dent at the Buffalo (N.Y.) General Hospital.

BARTOW W. RANKIN has resigned from James E.
Lambert and Associates, Landscape Architects, in

    

Dallas to become project engineer for Heery and
Heery, Architects and Engineers, Inc., of Atlanta.
Rankin and his wife, Jennifer, are living in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. MILLER III, a
son, William Herbert IV, on May 21, 1981, in Balti-
more, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL L. .OBENSCHAIN
JR., adaughter, Elizabeth Lindsey, on Oct. 11, 1980,
in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD R. ORSINGER, ason,
Stephen Michael, on May 2, 1981, in San Antonio.
He is an associate with the firm of Stewart, Hemmi
and Pennypacker, family law specialists. Orsinger
graduated from the University of Texas School of
Law in 1975 and was recently certified in family law
by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization.

Dr. JOHN B. BLALOCK Jr. is a general and vascular
surgeon in private practice in Birmingham, Ala.

BRIAN GREIG was recently certified as a specialist in
labor law by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization.
He lives in Austin.

ROBERT D. LARUE was promoted in November 1980
to vice president in the real estate department of
Houston’s Allied Bank of Texas.

DAVID MANSON was recently given a teaching post in
the English department at the Ecole Nationale de la
Magistrature of the University of Paris. He has been
in France since 1973 as a teacher and translator. In
1979 he was married to Nicole Travailleur, of Paris.
He is presently finishing a novel entitled The Fallen
which deals in part with his days as a student at
Washington and Lee.

In May 1981 J. EVERETT NEWMAN III graduated
from Indiana University School of Law in Indiana-
polis. He lives in Cromwell, Ind.

MaJ. W. WADE PEERY completed his general surgical
residency at the Letterman Army Medical Center on
June 30, 1981. He is now stationed at Fort Benning,
Ga., as a staff surgeon.

MILLARD S. YOUNTS was elected to a second term as
vice president of the National Daytime Broadcasters
Association. He was also included in the 1981 editions
of Who’s Who in the South and Southwest and Per-
sonalities of the South. Younts is president of radio
station WEEB in Southern Pines, N.C.

1973
MARRIAGE: WabE D. Gow1 and Nina Maria Mun-
teanu on July 12, 1980, in the chapel of the McDonogh
School in Baltimore. Alumni attending the wedding
were Norman Fagge, ’74, Robert Wilson, ’73,
Charles Ross, ’71, Stuart Perkins, ’73, Ken Shirk,
°71, and Joel Legin, ’74.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. TOWNSEND BROWN Jr., a
son, David Townsend, on Nov. 20, 1980, in Augusta,
Ga. Brown completed a residency in dentistry for
children at the Medical College of Georgia. In July
1981 he opened his own pedodontic practice in Vir-
ginia Beach.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CraiG R. WILLIAMS, a
daughter, Lisa Newman, on Nov. 16, 1980, in Spar-
tanburg, S.C. Williams is a financial analyst for
Grace Distribution Services, a subsidiary of W. R.
Grace & Co. in Duncan, S. C. He is married to the
former Martha Newman of Birmingham.

GARLAND H. DANIEL, is in Florence, Italy, as a
senior systems analyst with Mobil Plastics Italiana
for two years. He recently returned from a brief tour
in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, as part of Mobil’s support of
the East-West pipeline and other joint Mobil-Saudi
projects.

JAMES R. DENNY III and his wife, Landis, are restor-
ing an old home in Winchester, Va. He is president-
elect of the Winchester Association of Life Under-
writers, a director of Preservation of Historic Win-
chester and vice president of the Shenandoah Valley
Travel Association.

T. HALLER JACKSON III is a partner in the law firm of
Tucker, Jeter, Jackson & Victory in Shreveport, La.
He is chairman of the membership committee of the
Shreveport Bar Association as well as a member of
the board of directors of the Shreveport Young Law-
yers. Jackson is also president of an arts organization
known as Crafts Alliance.

DENNIS W. MICHAUD has resigned as an officer of
Chase Manhattan Bank to become vice president of
finance for Satellite Cable Systems, Inc., anew cable
television company in New York City.

Norwoop E. PAUKERT JR. is working as an actor in
Washington.

A. RICHARD SOTELO, after a two-year novitiate, has
now pronounced first vows in the Society of Jesus.
This past year he has taught history and American
government at Loyola High School in Towson, Md.
He will continue his studies in philosophy and the-
ology and expects to be ordained as a Roman Catholic
priest.

FREDERICK W. Woopwakrb III is a senior account
representative in the aviation/aerospace group of
Marsh and McLennan, Inc., insurance brokers in
New York.

1974

MARRIAGE: HANNES VAN WAGENBERG and Susan
Tower Long of Washington, D.C., on July 26, 1980.
He is completing a master’s degree in international
relations at the School of Advanced International
Studies of Johns Hopkins University in Washington,
D.C. Among the ushers in the wedding were Ken
Seal, ’74, Paul Perkins, ’74, and Hannes’ brother,
Dries Van Wagenberg, ’77.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. SPOFFORD III, a
daughter, Christina Hibbs, on March 15, 1981. Spof-
ford has been transferred to Rolling Meadows, IIl., as
senior financial analyst on the corporate staff of Ana-
conda Industries.

GarY MICHAEL ARTHUR is now at the General Theo-
logical Seminary in New York City and is manager of
the Seabury Bookstores in the Episcopal Church
Center.

JOHN M. SHERIDAN III received a degree of Doctor of
Osteopathic Medicine from the West Virginia School
of Osteopathic Medicine in Lewisburg. He expects to
do an internship at the Delaware Valley Medical
Clinic in Bristol, Pa.

Dr. EDwIn O. WILEY has opened a dental practice in
Warwick, N.Y.

1975
MARRIAGE: Makk PINSON and Elizabeth Ann Sadler
on June 6, 1981, at Cape Cod, Mass. Alumni in the
wedding party were J. D. Gottwald, ’76, George
Haw, ’76, and Gregg Amonette, ’75.

MARRIAGE: Dr. JAMES E. Pope and Ellen Knox on
Aug. 30, 1980, in Pasadena, Calif. In the wedding
party was Phil Pendleton, ’76. Pope is completing his
residency in internal medicine at Bowman-Gray
School of Medicine in Winston-Salem, N.C., and
expects to remain at Bowman-Gray for a cardiology
fellowship.

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM CLARKE Scott and Marion
Mc. Mohler were married June 20, 1981, in Char-
lottesville, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT ALAN COOK, a son,
Michael Lee, on May 23, 1981. Cook is associated
with the law firm of Semmes, Bowen & Semmes in
Baltimore, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEVEN LACRoIx, a daughter,
Michelle Shannon, on April 26, 1981. The young
lady joins two older sisters and the family lives in
Sarasota, Fla.

WILLIAM (Burr) DATZ, after two years as assistant
manager in the Washington and Lee dining hall,
became. assistant proctor under Charles (Murph)
Murray. He is married to the former Alesia Fay Hall.

JOHN R. EMBrREE, former captain of the W&L tennis
team, is now employed by the United States Tennis
Association with offices in New York City. He is the
National League Tennis Administrator of the USTA/
Michelob Light League Tennis, a new program for
amateur adult tennis enthusiasts. He resides in
Princeton, N.J.

Deloitte Haskins and Sells, an international account-
ing firm, has appointed DONALD M. HaTHWay a
manager. He works in the audit area of the firm’s
Washington office. Hathway lives in New Carroll-
ton, Md.

Murray T. HOLLAND, after receiving his M.B.A.
from the University of Virginia and his law degree
from W&L, is now practicing corporate and securities
law with the Dallas, Texas, firm of Akin, Gump,
Strauss, Hauer & Feld.

Davip LEE, an employee of IBM, is also systems
manager for Continental Cablevision of Richmond.

Capt. SAMUEL R. Lewis is an assistant staff judge
advocate in the office of the command counsel at
Headquarters DARCOM in Alexandria, Va.

ROBERT H. NICKEL is head of the audio-visual section
of the Congressional Research Service of the Library
of Congress where he has worked since 1977. He is
responsible for producing video tapes and audio
Cassettes on various issues of national concern for
congressmen and their staffs. He also produces orien-
tation slide shows for new congressional staff. Nickel
and his wife, Mary Lee, live in Potomac, Md.

CaPT. KIM STENSON is company commander in the
2nd B. T. Brigade at Fort Jackson, S.C.

1976

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM T. DriscoLt III and Beth
Urie on May 30, 1981, in Boston. The wedding party
included Bill Wallace, ’76, Mike Ferrara, ’77, and
Edwin Wright, ’78. Among the guests were Temp
Smith, 74, Tom Armstrong, ’75, Henry Hauptfuhrer,
°78, and Glen Stanford, ’79. On their honeymoon in
Bermuda, they saw Jim Norton, ’76, and his wife,
Sharon, who were also honeymooning there. They
live in Norfolk.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Gary W. SELDOMRIDGE and Karen
Elizabeth Wehmann on June 20, 1981. Seldomridge
graduated in May from the University of Pennsylvania
School of Dental Medicine. He received the Martin J.
Loeb Award given to a senior for outstanding leader-
ship and was the student speaker at graduation. Sel-
domridge was commissioned a lieutenant in the dental
corps in the U.S. Navy and has been assigned to the
Navy Regional Medical Center in Orlando, Fla.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Paut O. Cray Jr., a son,
Nathaniel James, on Dec. 14, 1980, in Bluefield,
W.Va. Clay is a member of the Fayetteville, W.Va.,
law firm of Conrad and Clay.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN W. PETTIGREW, a
daughter, Kendall Reams, on Nov. 27, 1980. Petti-
grew is a real estate appraiser for the firm of John
Stewart Walker, Inc., in Lynchburg, Va. In May
1981 he received his RM (Registered Member)
designation from the American Institute of Real Estate
Appraisers.

WILLIAM E. BIRBICK is a project engineer for Rey-
nolds Metals Co. in Richmond. He has been with the
company for four years.

THOMAS E. CAMDEN became assistant manuscripts
curator at the New Hampshire Historical Society on

3]

CLASS NOTES

April 1, 1981. From 1976 until 1979, he worked as a
research assistant at the George C. Marshall Research
Foundation in Lexington. In December 1980, he re-
ceived his M.S. degree in library science from the
University of Tennessee. Camden lives in Concord,
N.H.

Mark R. CHAMBERS finished his master of science in
forestry degree at Stephen F. Austin State University
in May 1981. The title of his thesis was ‘“CRUSUM—
A Computerized Timber Cruising Model.”’

Davip K. EuBANK received his M.B.A. degree in
finance from the American University in May 1981.
He is employed as a management consultant in the
commercial section of Ernst and Whinney’s Wash-
ington Office.

D. SCOTT FARRAR has joined W. Bolling Izard, Inc.,
of Roanoke, a bonding and insurance agency, as a
producer of new business in all company lines.

Douctas R. Murr has been promoted to manager in
the Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Price Waterhouse
and Company. He is a member of the North Carolina
Association of Certified Public Accountants.

KEN Ruscio is a doctoral research fellow at the
program analysis division of the General Accounting
Office in Washington, D.C. He is writing his dis-
sertation on government policy towards university-
industry relations and expects to receive his Ph.D.
degree from the Maxwell School of Syracuse Univer-
sity.

DAVID C. WARREN, a member of the auditing staff of
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., Certified Public
Accountants in Roanoke, Va., has been promoted to
audit supervisor. Warren joined the firm of Berry,
Dial & Co. prior to the firm’s merger with Peat
Marwick in July 1979. He is a member of the Ameri-
can Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the
Virginia Society of Certified Public Accountants,
and the Salem Jaycees. He and his wife, Denise, live
in Christiansburg.

1977

MARRIAGE: SINCLAIR J. HARCUs JR. and Catherine
T. McKenney on Aug. 23, 1980. Greer Barriault,
°78, was best man and the wedding party included
Rich Koch, ’75, Jim Koch, ’77, Dale Marden, ’75,
and David Harcus, ’84. Also attending were Rick
Stewart, ’78, Sandy Stradtman, ’77, Ed Dougherty,
°79, David Greer, 80, Jon Grigg, ’77, and Eric
Greenbaum, ’78. The groom graduated from the Uni-
versity of Virginia Medical School in May 1981 and
continues to reside in Charlottesville for a residency
in family practice.

MARRIAGE: JOHN W. RAVENHORST and Cari Colleen
Young on May 17, 1981, in Williamsport, Md. Rav-
enhorst and his wife are both archaeologists for the
National Park Service at Cape Cod.

MARRIAGE: JoHN H. WILSON and Heidi Marie
Bergmueller on May 31, 1981, in Piscataway, N.J.

32

D.C. Warren, ’76

   

They live in Avenel, N.J., and Wilson is employed
by the Siemens Corp. in Iselin.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Isaac L. WornoM III and Susan
Roberts in the summer of 1980 in Hampton, Va. In
attendance at the wedding were: James C. Vardell III,
°77, Robert B. Leithead, ’77, and Stephen D. Good,
°77, and the groom’s brother, Thomas A. Wornom,
°80. Serving as best man was his father, I. Leake
Wornom Jr., 50. Wornom, after graduating from the
University of Virginia Medical School, is now be-
ginning his residency in surgery at the University of
Alabama, Birmingham.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ANTHONY G. (TONY) PERRY,
a daughter, Alana Elizabeth, in September 1980.
Tony expects to make the rank of captain in the
Finance Corps, U.S. Army, this summer and to be
assigned to duty in Germany for three years.

Dr. H. Cops ALEXANDER JR. began a year’s intern-
ship with six months of medicine and six months of
pediatrics, at Vanderbilt University on July 1, 1981.
Upon completion, he plans a residency in orthopedics.

JOHN R. ARMSTRONG is employed as an exploration
geologist by Mobil Oil Co. in New Orleans.

MICHAEL ARMSTRONG, after three years with the
Austin Kelley Advertising firm in Atlanta, Ga., is
now pursuing an M.B.A. degree at the College of
William and Mary.

CAMILLUS L. (SANDY) AVENT, after receiving a
bachelor of civil engineering degree from Georgia
Tech in 1978, worked for two years as a construction
engineer. Presently he is in the M.B.A. program at
Georgia State University in Atlanta.

JAMES R. Brooks, formerly with Marsh & McLellan,
is now with the insurance firm of Johnson and Higgins
in New Orleans as an account executive to the oil and
gas team. He is married to the former Katherine
Louise Owens.

STEVEN GABELMAN is a technical representative with
Union Carbide Co. in Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. EDWARD B. GERHARDT after graduation from the
University of Virginia Medical School in May, will
begin a surgery internship at Vanderbilt University
Hospital in Nashville, Tenn. During the first part of
1981 he studied health care problems in Brazil under
a scholarship from the University of Virginia.

Louis B. HACKERMAN is a Scientific programmer in
the applied mathematics branch of the Naval Surface
Weapons Center in Silver Spring, Md.

RICHARD L. LOVEGROVE is a Staff reporter for the
Roanoke Times and World-News. He had been the
Shenandoah Valley Bureau head for the paper with
his office in Lexington.

JAMES B. MALLory III was promoted to captain in
May and was on the G-3 staff of the 82nd Airborne

Division at Fort Bragg. He left the Army in August to
pursue a law degree at Wake Forest University.

WILLIAM H. Sanps is a buyer for Rheinauers in
Winter Haven, Fla.

JaMES D. SCHAKENBACH has been appointed vice
president of creative services for Chevalier Associ-
ates, a retail advertising and promotional agency in
Worcester, Mass. Prior to joining Chevalier Associ-
ates, Schakenbach was creative director for WAAF/
WFTZ radio in Worcester. He and his wife, Laura,
reside in Southbridge, Mass.

DouGtas A. SCOVANNER is manager of planning and
operations analysis for the Coca Cola Company in
Atlanta.

Mark R. ULMer is an assistant attorney general for
the state of Alabama, which he represents in criminal
appeals, civil appeals and prisoner civil rights cases.
He lives in Montgomery. Ulmer graduated from the
Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham in May
1980 and passed the Alabama Bar that July.

WARREN T. WOLFE is a third-year student at the
Wake Forest University School of Law.

1978
MARRIAGE: RICHARD W. DuNncCAN and Susan Dos-
sett in January 1981. Duncan received his M.B.A.
from the University of Texas in December 1980 and
is now a consultant in management information sys-
tems for Arthur Andersen and Co. in Houston.

Davin I. ABRAMS, assistant director of public infor-
mation and publications at Sweet Briar College since
September 1978, has resigned that post and will be
working as a free-lance photographer in the Central
Virginia area. He expects to continue doing pho-
tography for Sweet Briar on a free-lance basis. His
wife, Mary, a student at Sweet Briar has published
her first book of poetry.

ALExius A. Dyer III is a marketing representative in
Jacksonville, Fla., for the Service Bureau Co., a
subsidiary of Control Data Corp.

THEODORE H. Guiz Jr. graduated in May 1981 from
the West Virginia University College of Law where
he was a member of the Order of the Coif. He was
also Notes and Comments editor for the West Virginia
Law Review and in 1980 was author of an article West
Virginia’ s Generation of Electricity Tax: Is it Valid
after Snead? Ghiz is now in the legal department of
Exxon Corp. and resides in Houston, Texas.

JOHN M. HILL and his wife, Harriett, live in Dallas.
He has completed his first year of law school at
Southern Methodist University.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR. is a second-year student at
Fordham School of Law in New York. He worked
two years for IBM in Kingston, N.Y., and Hursley,
England.

WILLIAM C. PorTH graduated in June from Harvard
Law School and is now associated with the firm of
Love, Wise, Robinson & Woodroe in Charleston,
W.Va.

RICHARD JAY REED JR., after receiving his bachelor’s
degree from Tulane University, is now a second-year
student at Louisiana State University Medical College
in New Orleans.

DELaMBERT S. ROSE worked as a clerk during the
summer for the Paris office of Rogers and Wells, an
international law firm. He entered Washington and
Lee Law School in August as a second-year transfer.

LLoyp R. SAMS spent the summer working for Wa-
chovia Bank in Winston-Salem before returning to
the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill for
his final year of his M.B.A. studies. He and his wife,
Jane, serve as house directors for the Zeta Tau Alpha
sorority.

WILLIAM R. SCHOOLEY is a first-year student at the
University of Alabama Medical School.

JAMES G. SHERIDAN Jr. received a master’s degree in
nuclear engineering in June 1980 from the University
of Michigan. He is now employed by General Electric
Co. and resides in Ballston Spa, N.Y.

JAMES H. VEGHTE was promoted to assistant secretary
at the Reinsurance Corp. of New York. He and his
wife, Debbie, live in Brooklyn Heights.

RICHARD T. ZINK is an account executive in the
Baltimore office of Bache Halsey Stuart Shields, Inc.

1979
MARRIAGE: W. Micuae Lepcuitz and Nathalynn
M. Tucker on June 27, 1981, in Vinton, Va. They
live in Bristol, Va., where Lepchitz is an associate
with the law firm of William Rodgers McCall.

LOWELL R. BUCKNER, following graduation at
Washington and Lee, worked several months for
Mobil Exploration Norway, Inc., in Bergen, Norway.
Upon his return to the States he entered the master’s
program at Biscayne College and after a short time
with the Montreal Expos Baseball Club has completed
his master of science in human resources degree. In
May 1981, Buckner accepted a position as personnel
representative in the engineering department of Mobil
Research and Development Corp. in Princeton, N.J.

B. Mason HAWFIELD received his M.B.A. degree
from Wake Forest University in May and is now
employed by the First Union National Bank in Fay-
etteville, N.C.

RICHARD F. Huck III is a third-year student at the St.
Louis University School of Law. During the summer
he was a clerk for the St. Louis firm of Evans and
Dixon.

RICHARD B. Makov, having earned an M.A. in Ger-

man in Mainz, Germany, in 1979-80 is now a second-
year law student at Syracuse University.

NorveL_ O. Scott III worked as a summer intern
for the Norfolk law firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly
and Greer. He is a third-year law student at the
University of Virginia.

CLIFFORD B. SONDOCK recently became account
officer for Chemical Bank in New York in the area of
real estate finance.

JOHN P. STAFFORD is assistant to the president of
Kerr Engineered Sales Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa.

PETER M. WILLIAMS has completed corporate training
with Chemical Bank in New York. He is now assigned
to the U.S. group working with the southern region.
Williams shares an apartment in New York with
Jamie Vardell, ’77.

1980

ABNEY S. BOXxLEYy III entered the Darden Graduate

 

 

The directory has three sections:

graduates, appears in this section.

foreign country if they live abroad.

Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me
including postage. Check is enclosed.

Name

Address

The 1980
Alumni Directory...
Order Yours Now

The new up-to-date computerized Washington and Lee Alumni Directory, 1749-1980, is
now available at only $10.00 per copy, including postage.

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since 1749 is listed alphabetically,
together with his class, his degree, and his occupation.
Class List—A full list of the members of each class, including degree holders and non-

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by cities within the states and by

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be without this valuable reference book in
his home or office. Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Washington and Lee

copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee Alumni Directory at $10.00 each,

Please Print

Class

 

City, State, Zip

 

 

 

 

33

IN MEMORIAM

School of Business Administration at the University
of Virginia in September 1981.

CHRISTOPHER BURNHAM has been commissioned
second lieutenant in the Marine Corps and is stationed
at Quantico, Va.

EDWARD I. Curry III is a management consultant
with Frye/Joure and Associates, a group of industrial
and organizational psychologists. In the fall of 1981
he expected to enter law school at Memphis State
Law School.

Davip L. GARNER has completed his first year of
graduate studies in geophysics at Cornell. He is
working on a Ph.D. program. Garner had a summer
job doing exploration geophysics for the Interna-
tional/South America Division of Cities Service Co.
in Houston.

THOMAS E. Goss JR. is an investment executive in the
Cleveland, Ohio, branch of Shearson American Ex-
press, the international financial service company.

STEVEN C. HEROLD is a stockbroker with First Jersey
Securities in Cherry Hill, N.J.

MICHAEL R. TESTERMAN has been admitted to the
Louisiana Bar and is now an associate with the New
Orleans law firm of Deutsch, Kerrigan and Stiles. He
works in the firm’s business section on labor, antitrust
and general business matters.

KATHRYN E. WILKERSON is a deputy district attorney
for the 14th Judicial District in Colorado. She lives in
Winter Park.

1981

RONALD S. Moore expects to graduate from Virginia
Tech with a mechanical engineering major in 1983.
He works in the summer with his uncle to develop
computer software systems for the construction in-

dustry.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1910

RYLAND THORNTON PHELPS, a retired civil engineer
from the Appalachian Electric Power Co. of Blue-
field, W.Va., died in Ocala, Fla., on May 29, 1981.
Phelps worked for Appalachian Electric for 42 years
and retired as department head in 1953. He moved to
Ocala where he operated a mobile home park for 14
years.

1915

Dr. SAMUEL EARL OGLESBY, a prominent physician
specializing in obstetrics and gynecology in Lynch-
burg, Va., died April 6, 1981. He was a 1942 diplo-

34

mate of the American College of Obstetrics and
Gynecology.

1918

FRANCIS HOLMES STYLES, a foreign service officer
with the State Department for 35 years, died in April
1981. During his career Styles worked in Bordeaux,
France; Loamda, Angola; Durban, South Africa;
Antwerp, Belgium; Sydney, Nova Scotia; Dublin,
Ireland; Shanghai, China, and Goteborg, Sweden.
He was a Mason and a member of the American
Legion Post at Falls Church, Va.

1920

JOSEPH E. RICHARDSON, former president of the
Mississippi Farmer Cooperative Board died May 13,
1981, at his home in Ridgeland. He was a member of
the board of the Madison County Cooperative for 30
years, serving as president from 1954 until he retired
in 1978. Richardson moved to Mississippi in 1926
from East Tennessee. He took an active role in the
development of Angus cattle and soon had one of the
finest herds in the state. He was a member of the
Mississippi Aberdeen Angus Breeders Association.
A veteran of World War I and a former member of the
Washington and Lee Ambulance Corps, Richardson
served as Madison County Representative in the
Mississippi Legislature from 1956 to 1960 and served
14 years on the Madison-Ridgeland School Board.

HuGH MCCLUER SHIREY a former employee of the
investment firm of Tucker Anthony & R. L. Day in
Rochester, N.Y., died Aug. 29, 1980. Before joining
Tucker Anthony & Co., Shirey had been employed
by Eastman Kodak Co. and National Cash Register.
He was a veteran of World War I.

1922

CHARLES MILLER CAMPBELL, a retired owner and
manager of Continental Stores, a retail hardware and
sporting goods store in Vincennes, Ind., died in
Naples, Fla., April 22, 1981. Campbell had retired to
Florida several years ago and resided in Marco Island.
In July of 1980 he moved to Naples.

1923

FRENCH RAYBURN MCKNIGHT, a resident of Helena,
Ark., for the past 75 years, died July 6, 1981. Mc-
Knight was the former owner and operator of Mc-
Knight Veneer and Plywood Co. in West Helena. He
was a member of the board of Helena Hospital for 16
years and held the office of vice president and presi-
dent. He was also a member of the Helena Water
Commission, the Helena-West Helena School Board,
and a member of the St. Francis Levee District Board.

1924

JOHN MoREHEAD DOCKERY, retired regional manager
for Greyhound Lines, died in Houston, Texas, on
June 14, 1981. He was an active member of the
administrative board of St. Luke’s United Methodist
Church. While at W&L, Dockery was a member of
the football team. He recently returned to the campus
for his first visit in over 50 years.

1925

ALLIE RAYMOND BENNETT, a banker for many years
in Durham, N.C., died May 30, 1981.

Dr. RAYMOND LYNWooD CLATERBAUGH, a physi-
cian in Clifton Forge, Va., died July 1, 1980.

1930

HOWERTON GOWEN, a retired businessman and civic
leader in Roanoke Rapids, N.C., died July 5, 1981.
Gowen was founder and former president of Howerton
Gowen Chemicals, Inc., and the Gowen Chemical
Corp. of Chesapeake, Va. He was also president of
the Acme-Olds Cadillac, Gowen Oil Company and
Reinco Corporation in Roanoke Rapids. Following
his graduation from Washington and Lee, Gowen
was associated with the Continental Illinois Bank of
Chicago before moving to Roanoke Rapids. He was a
former director of Planters National Bank and Trust
Company, Rocky Mount and a former president of
the Roanoke Rapids Hospital. He served as president
of the Roanoke Rapids Chamber of Commerce in
1955 and as president of the Halifax County Bicen-
tennial in 1958.

1932

COLLAS GRANT HarkRIs SR., a retired official of the
Central Intelligence Agency and a retired colonel in
the Air Force Reserve, died May 14, 1981. Since
leaving federal service in 1968, Harris, a resident of
Great Falls, Va., since 1937, had served as chairman
of the Board of Equalization of Rural Property As-
sessment for Fairfax County. Harris began his gov-
ernment career in the early 1930s. In 1934, he went to
work at the National Archives. Early in World War
II, he took part in the transfer of various documents
from the Library of Congress to vaults at Fort Knox,
Kentucky. In 1942, Harris went on active duty in the
Army Air Corps. His war service included assign-
ments as a combat intelligence officer in the South
Pacific. After the war, he returned to the National
Archives, where he helped organize special display
cases that would help preserve such documents as the
Declaration of Independence. In 1952, Harris joined
the CIA where he became a senior intelligence officer.
During his tenure he was an assistant Air Force attache
to Australia and New Zealand. He retired from the
CIA and the Air Force Reserve in 1968. His papers,
including official military memoranda and corres-
pondence and other official publications, have been
donated to the George C. Marshall Research Library
at Virginia Military Institute.

1933

ERNEST FREDERICK LEATHEM, JR., aretired adminis-
trative assistant to the president of Raytheon Co.,
died Oct. 26, 1980. Leathem had begun with Raytheon
in 1947.

1940

JAMES SKIDMORE SHIELDS Jr., who had retired in
1977 and was very active in the Republican Party,
died March 17, 1981. At one time he had been an
agent with the John Hancock Life Insurance Co.

 

 

 

 
 
 

© fe fromthe

- W&L
A-7__ Pennants: 8% in. $0.69; 15 in. $1.99: S / . tO re
ae 26.79; 4 inaenehes st U Pp Pp Y B-15  W&L Baseball Hat $4.79

B-14 W&L Visor $3.09
B-6 Adult Gym Shorts (polyester) $8.29

   

 

ix aa Ss

Gnmi is
tee

   

B-3 Childs Quarterback Shirt $8.99
B-3 “Go for it’’ Childs Shirt $6.59
B-5 Childs Cotton Shorts $4.69

 

B-13 Navy pile-lined rayon Coach's Jacket B-4 W&L Polo Shirt $14.99
[ISML XL] $27.69 B-4 Adult Athletic Dept. Jersey $11.19
B-4 Chip Shirt (lacrosse, football, soccer,
basketball) $11.49

«asst 4Nee aed

a . &
univeRsitY ’ :

          

   

C-3 W&L Mug, 12 oz. $8.19
C-2 Beer Stein, w/gold trim, 20 oz. $9.69
C-5 Grandad Mug, 10 oz. $7.29

C-4 Coffee Mug, 7 0z. $4.89 B-3 Childs Baseball Shirt $5.49 D-1 Highball Glass, 12 oz. $2.29
- B-3 Childs V-neck T-Shirt $5.99 D-3 Double Old Fashioned, 15 oz. $2.69
B-3 Childs Logo T-Shirt $4.49 D-4 Single Old Fashioned, 7 oz. $2.09
D-7 Brandy Snifter, 3 oz. $3.89;
6 oz. $5.59
D-5 Shot Glass, 1% 0z. $1.39

 

E-3 Pewter Tankard w/W&L seal $45.79

 

E-2 Pewter Glass-bottom Tankard - Y ,
w/lid $58.69 F-9 wail Key Rines$s20.ae a

A-1 Walnut Pen Sets $51.79, $61.49 B-4 Adult Baseball Shirt $7.99 F-3 Blazer Buttons $29.19 7

omaha B-4 Adult Lacrosse T-Shirt $6.59 A-12 W&L Cigarette Lighters $8.29, $9.59

B-1 W&L Tie $11.29 B-16 Adult Velour Sweater $18.69 F-1 W&L Charm $4.99

F-4 W&L Lapel Pin $13.29

 

 

 

 

 

 

TON Ay,
mS iy a

eg
WY Ried
Nn

I ngeeel eeg

Aon
ane

Warm-up Pants $14.39
Warm up Jackets $15.59

 

 

TO DETERMINE ZONE, TAKE FIRST THREE DIGITS OF ZIP CODE

TO

WHICH PARCEL IS ADDRESSED AND REFER TO CHART BELOW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ZIP CODE ZIP CODE ZIP CODE
PREFIXES ZONE PREFIXES ZONE PREFIXES ZONE
010-041 .... 4 380-381 .... 5 676-679 .... 6
042-049 .... 5 382-385 .... 4 680-687 .... 5
050-069 .... 4 386-387 .... 5 688-693 .... 6
070-089 .... 3 388 ....... 4 oo.
— 389-396. .... 5 700-729 .... 5
100-139 .... 4 397 ....... 4 730-739 .... 6
140-143 .... 3 = ry 740-749 .... 5
144-146 .... 4 400-402 .... 4 750-752 .... 6
147-149 .... 3 403-418 .... 3 754-757 .... 5
150-156 .... 2 420-424 .... 4 758 2.0.0... 6
157-158 .... 3 425-426 .... 3 759 ....... 5
169 ....... 2 427 ....... 4 760-775 .... 6
160-171 .... 3 430-433 .... 3 776-777... . 5
172-174 .... 2 434-436 .... 4 778-797 .... 6
175-199 .... 3 437-438 .... 3 798-799 .... 7
a ae 439 ....... 2 OD
200-217 .... 2 440-458 .... 3 800-810 .... 6
218-219 .... 3 460-469 .... 4 811-816 .... 7
220-232 .... 2 470 ....... 3 820 ........ 6
233-237 .... 3 471-497 .... 4 821 ....... 7
238-241 .... 2 498-499 .... 5 822 ....... 6
242 ....... 3 TO 823-826 7
243-274 .... 2 500-528 .... 5 827 ....... 6
275-288 .... 3 530-534 .... 4 828-832 7
289 ....... 4 535-566 .... 5 833 ....... 8
290-293 .... 3 567 ....... 6 834 ....... 7
294 se. 4 570-571 .... 5 835-838 8
295-297 .... 3 572-588 .... 6 840-847 7
298-299 .... 4 590-597 .... 7 850-853 . 8
— ee 598-599 .... 8 855-860 7
300-322 .... 4 “Tae 863-864 8
323-325 .....5 600-611 .... 4 865-880 . 7
326. 4 612 ....... 5 881 ....... 6
327-339 .... 5 613-622 .... 4 882-883 . 7
350-363 .... 4 oe 5 884 ....... 6
364-366 .... 5 624-633 .... 4 890-898 . 8
367-368 .... 4 634-636 .... 5 OO
369 ....... 5 637-639 .... 4 900-961 .... 8
370-374 .... 4 640-675 .... 5 970-986 .... 8
376-379 .... 3 988-994 .... 8
ANY FRACTION OF A POUND OVER THE WEIGHT SHOWN
TAKES THE NEXT HIGHER RATE
WEIGHT RATE CHART TO GROUND ZONES
NOT TO
EXCEED 2 3 4 5 6 7 | 8
= __| TR sce teas eer ree cee
1Ib. | $1.79 | $1.81 | $1.85 | $1.89 |$1.95 | $2.00 | $2.07
2” 1.89 1.94 2.00 2.08 2.19 2.31 2.44
3” 1.98 2.05 2.15 2.27 2.44 2.61 2.82
4” 2.07 2.17 2.31 2.46 2.68 2.92 3.18
5” 2.16 2.28 2.46 2.65 2.93 3.22 3.56
a 8 dee
6 2.25 2.41 2.61 2.85 3.17 3.53 3.93
7 2.35 2.53 2.76 3.03 3.42 3.84 4.31
8" 2.44 2.64 2.92 3.22 3.66 4.14 4.67
9 2.53 2.76 3.07 3.42 3.91 4.45 5.05
10 2.62 2.88 3.22 3.60 4.15 4.75 5.42
3.00 3.38 3.80 4.41 5.05 5.80
3.53 3.99 4.65 5.36 6.16
3.68 4.18 4.90 5.66 6.54
3.84 4.37 5.14 5.97 6.91
3.99 4.59 5.39 6.28 7.29
4.14 7.66
4.30 8.03
4.45 8.40
4.60 8.78
4.76 9.15
4.91 9.52
5.06 9.89
5.21 10.27
5.37 10.64

 

 

 

5.52

 

 

 

 

 

A. HOME OR OFFICE

—_

oo

oon oO oO FR WN

Oo NOGRW N

. Solid Walnut Penstand. .$51.79, $61.49

(1 Ib. 4 02.)
Solid Walnut Bookends ..... $43.29

(3 Ib. 5 02.)
Marble Paper Weight (8 0z.). . . . $5.99
Letter Openers (4 0z.). . . $2.99, $6.89
W&L. Playing Cards (10 0z.). . . . $6.29
Stationery (21]b.)...... $3.59, $6.09
Pennants (6 0oz.)8%""@....... $.69;

15” @ $1.99;30”"@ ....... $5.79
W&L Blankets

Twin Size 905 — wool w/ rayon

trim & emblem (5 1b.) .....- $43.99

Twin size — 100% wool w/white

wool edging & emblem (4 Ib.). $80.19
Walnut Paperweight (8 oz.) . . . $16.29
Solid Walnut Ashtray .....-- $23.99

(2 Ib. 5 oz.)

. Leather Ashtray (1 Ib. 2 0z.) . . . $7.50
Zippo Lighter (5 oz.) — regular. . $8.29
SII. « Rig epee 2 ee ew $9.59
CLOTHING
W&L Tie (60z.) ......--:5 $11.29
Baby Bib (30z.) .......... $3.09
Youth T-Shirts [2-16]. . . $4.49, $8.99
(10 oz.)
Adult T-Shirts (1 Ib.). . . $5.69, $14.99
[ISML XL]
. Youth Gym Shorts (7 0z.). ....- $4.69
[ISML] ©

Adult Gym Shorts (13 0z.) $4.89, $8.29
cotton polyester

. Sweatshirts, child (1 1!b.). ..... $7.59
. Sweatshirts, adult (1 Ib. 5 0z.) . $10.99
. Sweatshirts, hooded (1 Ib. 12 0z.)$14.59
10. W&L Nightshirts [S ML] (1 Ib.) . $7.39

11. Warm-up Pants (1 Ib. 4 0z.). . . $14.39
[ISML XL]

12. Warm-up Jacket (1 Ib. 40z.) . . $15.59
[SML XL]

13. Coach’s Jacket [S ML XL]
Pile-lined (1!b.9o0z.)...... $27.69
Flannel-lined (1 Ib. 7 oz.) . . . $19.99

14. W&L Visor (10 0z.) .......--. $3.09

15. W&L Baseball Hat (10 0z.) . .. . $4.79

16. W&L Velour Sweater (1 Ib. 6 0z.)$18.69
17. W&L Sew-on Patch (2 oz.) . . $1.49
C. CERAMICS
1. W&L S&P Shakers, pr. (1 ib.). . . $5.99
2. W&L Mug, 20 oz. — Beer Stein. . $9.69
(2 ib. 5 oz.)
3. W&L Mug, 12 oz. (1 Ib. 40z.) . . $8.19
4. W&L Mug, 7 oz. — Coffee (1 ib.) . $4.89
5.W&L Grandad Mug, 10 0z. .... $7.29
(1 Ib. 2 oz.)
6. Ashtray (1 1b. 20z.)......-.. $6.59
7. Heart-shaped Box (8 oz.) ..... $5.39
8. Miniature Creamer (6 oz.)..... $2.59
9. Miniature Beer Stein (8 oz.). . . . $3.69
D. GLASSWARE
1. Highball, 12 oz. (15 0z.)...... $2.29
[red & blue crest]
2. Highball, 12 oz. (15 0z.)...... $2.89
[red & blue crest, gold rim]
3. Olid Fashioned, double, 15 0z. . . $2.69
[red & blue crest] (15 oz.)
4. Old Fashioned, single, 7 oz... . . $2.09
[red & blue crest] (12 oz.)
5. Shot Glass, 1% 0z. (8 0oz.)..... $1.39
[red & blue crest]
6. Ashtray, 6’’ square (1 Ib. 14 0z.) . $3.19
7. Brandy Snifter (11 0z.) . $3.89 & $5.59
[3 oz. & 6 oz.]
8. Glass Tankard, 12 oz. (1 Ib. 9 0z.).$4.49
[red & blue crest]
E. PEWTER
1. Tankard (11!b.30z.)....... $13.99
[with W&L crest]
2. Glass-bottom Tankard w/lid. . . $58.69
(1 Ib. 3 oz.)
3. Tankard w/W&L seal (14 0z.). . $45.79
F. JEWELRY
1. Charms, W&L seal, (3 oz.). .... $4.99
[gold & silver]
2. Key Rings (3 oz.). . $5.29, $7.19, $7.49
[w/W&L charm, gold & silver]
3. Blazer Buttons (5 oz.) [18 ct... $29.19
gold filled, blue & white enamel]
4. Lapel Pin, gold w/seal (3 0z.). . $13.29

You may order from the listed items, many of which are pictured. A check or money
order including the item(s) price, tax (if applicable), and the shipping charges, computed by
use of charts, must accompany your order before it can be processed. Feel free to call the
W&L Supply Store (703-463-9111 ext. 312) to discuss any details.

All Prices Subject to Change Without Notice.

 

jtem

Letter/No. Description

Size

Weight
Ib. oz.

Total
Price

Unit

Oty. Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Send your order to:

Lexington, Va. 24450

*Shipping Charges:

using appropriate zone and poundage.

Total Weight

 

 

 

Washington and Lee University Supply Store

Sub Total

 

Total Shipping Charges
* (refer to charts)

 

After compiling total weight, refer to Zip

4% Tax (Va. residents only)

 

Chart to find your zone, then Rate Chart

 

Enclose check or
money order for:

 

 

 

 

 

2m
5 Name
OF
< < | Address
a=
we Zip
=
Telephone No. & Area Code

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

re PS

ue,
yi

: a
Co 43
‘sy o. Se .

« a 8

, Cw A d

Mime

 

The steeple of Lee Chapel is reflected in the Washing-
ton and Lee Mirror with Ahern hand-tinted print
matted at the top. The mirror is available with frame
finished in French gold or Colonial cherry.

 

 

Now available .. .

Panoramic Prints
Of the Front Campus
Of Washington and Lee

A sweeping, delicately rendered view of Washington
and Lee’s historic Front Campus, drawn by artist Rich
Ahern, is available in hand-tinted full color or in black
and white and in two sizes. It is also available com-
bined with a handsome mirror with frame finished in
French gold or Colonial cherry. These prints and the
mirror will complement both traditional and con-
temporary homes. Shipped by U.P.S.

MIRROR—Outside measurements 15 by 24%,
(mirror itself 14 by 17%), frame in French
gold or Colonial cherry, hand-tinted print
matted at the top ...................2e0ee0ee+- 6125.00
(Add $12.50 for shipping)
SMALL PRINT—Outside measurements
17 by 8 Hand-tinted Color—double

matted and shrink wrapped ................$ 29.75
Color Print only ...................:e00ee2e 18.50
Black and White .......................22...-8 5.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)

LARGE PRINT—Outside measurements 27% by 10%
Hand-tinted Color—double matted and

shrink wrapped ..............0.eceeeeeeeeeeeeD 36.20
Color Print only .................2eeeeeeeeee 32.50
Black and White ....................220225---5 8.00

(Add $3.00 for shipping)
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.
Make checks payable to the Washington and Lee Bookstore.

Send your order to:

The Bookstore
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Singin, Vek oan
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040) - |
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

CS

MR DANIEL T BALFOUR
RALSTON RD

eit

RICHMOND VA

23229

¥
'

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc. |
Presents... a

L

            

ft a/v [VPS I Vis

e
ad

fe a ~ :
LAN OTs oe SET
SS ; [Set ed
rec peak >

UROP

ITALY SWITZERLAN D — FRANCE

» = <<

tld eS =

Ws Sarees ae
eS peal’ S yon DAL

           
 
 

— »- 6 —'e - 8

 
  

 
 
 

ee

) ee oe

November 27-December 12, 1981 | = _ =
Dulles Departure | " of Wii » (Ll

acl yA a |
ame

wa Ss

a

=

ON TICK LT

a ) q J a bees
, wy NN ae

g et et oe ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR ONLY...

=
na
$1 695 e 00 Per person-double occupancy W fy | ' il ! | ka >
7) Fj ~ tet td
TOUR TRIP FEATURES: | MA X Ni Bieta
(fp

0 Jet transportation to Rome, ktaly, via Pan American Airways’ wide-bodied aircraft, and return flight from
Paris, France. 0 Deluxe transfers between cities. 1 Deluxe accommodations for four nights in Rome at
the Grand Hotel, Beverly Hills with full buffet breakfast daily, a Gala Welcome Dinner in a typical Roman
restaurant. 0 Three nights in Florence at the Jolly Hotel (or similar). Continental breakfast daily, and a
farewell dinner a ’Falciani”. 1 Deluxe accommodations for three nights in Anzere at the Hotel Zodiac
including Continental breakfast daily and a typical Swiss Raclette dinner. O One night in Geneva at the Royal .
Hotel with Continental breakfast. 0 Paris. Deluxe accommodations at the Paris Sheraton for three nights, For fu rther information and
Continental breakfast daily, gala Parisian Welcome and Farewell dinners. 0 Dine-around dinners on five i .
additional evenings in Rome, Anzere and Florence. 0 All applicable porterage fees in Ktaly, Switzerland and reservation coupon, contact:

France. 0 All domestic and foreign arrival and departure taxes. (1) Pre-registration at all hotels. 0 Welcome W.C. Washbu rn, Washington and
Orientation. 0 Fully escorted by Arthurs Travels on-site team of professionals. DExciting low-cost optional __e@e Unive rsity Alumni, Inc.

tours will be made available. Lexington, Virginia 24450
PHONE: (703) 463-9111 ext. 214

 

7
,

 

 

 

 

 

037556

