 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 57, Number 6, October 1982

Willini: C. Washburn, 40 .........-...nL Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jerery (s, gee 8 ee Associate Editor
RODCH PUNE ee ee Contributing Editor
eee Editorial Assistant
ee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Himely, °73 .........-.-..0eeeceseeee sees Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Reeves Center Opens .............0..0000008 oe oo
Communicating Creatively ...................eeee eee ees .. 4
1982-83 Annual Fund Drive Begins ..................... 7
Pat Brady, 37: A Conversation .....................00005 8
(see Club in Germany .......2..-- os eee 12
Recent Gils ta WEL... 0.5... ie 14
Weel, Garetle 6 20
Chapter News «.....,..0:.200- a 24
Class Notes ....:......... a: 26

tt Paes ee 3]

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

~G. RUSSELL Lapp III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
: Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, 56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OwEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 759, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, °53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NorRMAN JrR., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
Rick M. TILvey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TuRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.

CW

v

ON THE COVER: The Reeves Center for Research and Ex-
hibition of Porcelain and Paintings was opened in September
with a ceremony presided over by James W. Whitehead, direc-
tor of the center. For the occasion, several of the flags that
appear on the Hong Bowl, one of the most important pieces of
Chinese export porcelain contained in the Reeves Collection,
were flown from the Reeves Center roof. Photograph by W.
Patrick Hinely, ’73.

 

 

 

 

A dream that began 15 years ago with
200 barrels of porcelain and 100 paintings by
an unknown artist became a reality in
September when the Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and
Paintings was officially opened on the
Washington and Lee University campus.

Opening ceremonies were conducted
Sept. 11 on the lawn behind the Reeves
Center, which was formerly a faculty
residence built in the 1 840s and recently
restored to become the permanent home of
the University’s two highly-prized
collections: the Reeves Collection of
porcelain and the collection of paintings by
Louise Herreshoff.

Both the porcelain and paintings were
given to Washington and Lee in 1967 by Mr.
and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves of Providence,
R.I. Mr. Reeves, a 1927 graduate of the
W&L School of Law, and his wife had
collected more than 2,000 items of ceramic
art dating from the late 17th century through
the first half of the 20th century.

Although the Reeves Collection includes
pieces from the major porcelain factories of
Europe and England, the collection is
particularly rich in mid-18th and early 19th
century Chinese export porcelain made and
decorated in China.

In addition to the porcelain, the Reeves’
gift to the University included paintings done
by Mrs. Reeves around the turn of the

James W. Whitehead, director of the Reeves Center, conducts opening ceremonies.

A Dream Comes True

The Reeves Porcelain, Herreshoff Paintings Find a Home
As the Reeves Center Is Officially Opened

 

The Reeves Center

century and signed mostly with her maiden
name, Louise Herreshoff.

Until the Reeves Center became a reality,
both collections had been exhibited widely
throughout the United States and, in the case
of the Reeves Collection, abroad. But
because no adequate place was available for
their display, the porcelain and paintings
remained mostly in storage between their
exhibitions.

The Reeves Center has changed all that.

‘‘Now, for the first time, we have a place
on our campus where we can display the
Reeves Collection of porcelain and also the
wonderful paintings of Louise Herreshoff,
Mrs. Reeves,’’ said William J. Watt, dean of
the College, during his remarks at the
opening. ‘‘This beautiful facility gives us the
opportunity to see these two collections
gathered together.”’

The Reeves Center opening coincided
with a four-day symposium of the Decorative
Arts Trust, a national organization created
for the study and preservation of the
decorative arts. The symposium, entitled
‘*The China Trade: Currents and Cross-
Currents of Taste,’’ drew more than 300
participants from 25 states and England.

‘*We are indeed honored to have you on
our campus and feel that the Decorative Arts
Trust meeting represents the final stamp of
approval on the magnificent collection of
porcelain,’’ Watt added.

In his remarks, Watt also paid tribute to
the efforts of James W. Whitehead, secretary
of Washington and Lee and director of the
Reeves Center.

Referring to him as the “guiding spirit’’
behind the Reeves Center, Watt said that it
was Whitehead ‘‘who had the vision when he
saw those 200 barrels of porcelain that this
could be built into a great thing for learning
and teaching at Washington and Lee.”’

Representatives of two of the nation’s
leading museums and from the Colonial
Williamsburg Foundation also made brief
remarks at the opening and emphasized the
center’s importance as a place for research
and study.

More than merely a building in which the
collections can be displayed, the Reeves
Center will operate as a research facility in
much the same manner as a rare books
division of a library. Students as well as

5

 

 

SS SS SS SSS SN SS SSS SKK SEQ SS SSS
The Reeves Center is a former faculty residence on the north end of the Colonnade.

 

fo

Visitors can examine porcelain in display cases both inside (left) or outside the building.

David S. Howard (right) of London leads a discussion for the Decorative Arts Trust symposium.

tiie

while visitors admire porcelain (righ

Pamela H. Simpson (left), associate art professor, at Decorative Arts Trust symposium.

a
t).

 

 

experts in the area of decorative arts will be
able to examine individual items from the
collection in both directed and independent
research.

‘‘T think that it is important that
Washington and Lee has been chosen for the
site of this collection, which might
traditionally have gone to a more
metropolitan setting,’’ said Donald J.
Gonzales, executive vice president of the
Colonial Williamsburg Foundation.

**Now that the collection is here, scholars
will come; everyday people can see the
collection and perhaps become interested.
But I think one of the most important things
is that it is available for undergraduate study
and particularly with that ‘hands-on’
approach that probably would not be allowed
to happen at most of the larger places.

John A. H. Sweeney of the Winterthur
Museum in Winterthur, Del., compared the
Reeves Center with the Garvin Collection of
American decorative arts at Yale, adding that
“we are happy to see this facility on a
college campus (where it) will be available to
undergraduates in their study of American
culls.

Margaret Klapthor of the Smithsonian
Institution said that “‘as a curator and one
who believes firmly in the use of museums
for education, I must say that calling this a
‘center’ and using it as a study collection is
the most important concept that you have
captured.

‘*T am sure Mr. and Mrs. Reeves, above
all, would be delighted to think of the
generations that are going to learn by being
able to look at the things they have collected
and loved so much.’’

Whitehead told the audience that ‘‘it is
actually in celebration of Mr. and Mrs.
Reeves that we are here today. They are the
people who had the imagination and the
talent and the drive to bring together a study
collection of this sort. . . . What you see
here today began many, many years ago and
required the dreams and the hopes and the
prayers and the generous support of many,
many people.’’

The Reeves Center will be open to the
public by appointment only. For information,
call the Reeves Center at 463-9111 or write
the Reeves Center, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Va. 24450.

Communicating Creatively

Or How to Speak (and Write) French Without Memorizing an English-French Dictionary

Remember the good old days of learning
a foreign language through memorization and
recitation?
‘* Altogether now, class: J’entre dans la
salle de classe. Je regarde autour de moi. Je
vois les éléves et le professeur. Je dis
‘bonjour’ au professeur. Je prends ma
place.”’
Those good old days are gone. At least in
many of Washington and Lee’s classrooms
they’re gone. Instead of memorizing and
reciting until the words and the grammar
rules are etched in the gray matter, students
in intermediate French courses at W&L are
learning the grammar on their own and then
applying what they have learned in
classroom discussions (in French,
naturellement) that deal with the philosophy
of Camus or the underlying theme of a
popular French song.
According to Russell C. Knudson,
assistant professor of Romance languages at
W&L, the objective is to present the
grammar of a language not as a long list of
rules with a longer list of exceptions but as
‘‘an essential and exciting means to
communication.”’
To that end, Knudson and Alfred G.
Fralin Jr., associate professor of Romance
languages, have designed their own method
and written their own manual in order to
avoid the pitfalls of the memorization-
recitation approach.

_ The two-volume manual! contains 306
mimeographed pages. Entitled Pistes
Grammaticales, it is an intermediate text
designed for the review of French grammar.

‘‘The manual came out primarily because
we could not find a text that we felt would
enable us to realize our goals in language
communication,’’ explains Knudson.

‘*It seems that so often language learning
is little more than memorizing endless

_ irregular verb endings or lists of vocabulary
words that the student may never see or hear
again. Or, if the student does encounter those
irregular verbs and vocabulary words, the
time lapse between his memorizing them and
using them is such that they are forgotten.”’

And Knudson adds emphatically: ‘‘That
is definitely not what language learning is all
about.”’

Instead, communication is the key.

‘*T have found that today students want

the language for a very practical purpose: to
open doors, often in their chosen profession,
that they could not open without a
communicative skill in a foreign language,”’
Knudson says. They are, for the most part,
in language courses to gain a communication
skill.

‘At the same time, they want to know
more about a foreign culture, to understand
how others think, what prompts others to act
and react as they do, and so on. There seems
to be an increasing realization that unless we
can learn to communicate with each other,
we may destroy one another.”’

Therefore, Knudson suggests, many
students are prompted to acquire these
foreign language skills for both practical and
idealistic reasons.

‘*Their goals require an ability to
communicate creatively with people of a
foreign culture. By “communicate
creatively,’ I mean the ability to express
rather precisely what you think as opposed to
parroting memorized phrases from an
English-to-French tourist handbook.

‘‘The only way to achieve that skill of
creative communication is to know, to
understand, and to be able to manipulate the
structure of that language: that is, its grammar.
If you possess that ability, a whole new
world is opened to you.’’

What Knudson and Fralin needed was a
textbook that would move the study of
grammar away from that traditional realm of
memorization for the sake of memorization
and into the realm of acquiring those skills
that are essential for effective
communication.

When their search for such a text proved
futile, they hit upon the obvious solution:
they wrote their own. Not that the two
professors sat down together, brainstormed a
few hours, and began pecking away at their
typewriters.

‘Our collaboration has lasted seven
years,’ says Fralin, ‘‘and has been a long
creative process. Having created the course
in 1973, Russ introduced it to me in 1975,
my first year at W&L. Since that time the
course has evolved radically through trial and
error and also because we have been able to
work so effectively together.’’

Pistes Grammaticales has been used, in
one form or another, for the past three years

in W&L classrooms. During the 1981-82
academic year, five different professors
worked with the materials.

‘*That,’’ says Knudson, ‘‘was the real
test. We spent the entire summer revising the
material based on suggestions from both
faculty and students.”’

The process works this way.

First, the students go to the language
laboratory where they listen to an episode of
a mystery-thriller that has been produced by
EMC Corporation. The recordings, in
conversational form and complete with sound
effects, simply tell a story—in French. One
of the stories deals with a young woman who
is a model for a French company that makes
suntan lotion. As the plot unfolds, it turns
out that there is an organization that controls
one of the company’s scientists who is
creating an extremely dangerous chemical
substance that, rather than producing the
perfect tan, may be used in biological
warfare.

It is, to be sure, a far cry from *‘J’entre
dans la salle de classe.’’

‘The story is very engaging and gives a
lively point of departure for the grammar
review,’ explains Knudson. ‘‘What we do is
take from an episode the action that
illustrates a certain concept of grammar and
present that concept in light of the action.
The same characters in the story appear in
the grammar review, allowing the students to
see, through the use of language structure,
how the characters communicate and react to
each other.”’

The students begin the week’s grammar
review only after they have worked with the
episode in the laboratory and understand the
action they have heard on the tape. Next,
they must complete a brief comprehension
quiz to be sure they have understood the
action. Then they begin their grammar study,
which leads them through an analysis and
understanding of how the communication
was achieved.

All of this is accomplished by the
students independently, outside the
classroom. Materials in the manual are self-
correcting. Since answers appear at the end
of each chapter, students can study on their
own.

‘*We never take class time to do a formal
review of the grammar,’’ says Knudson.

 

 

Professors Alfred G. Fralin Jr. (left) and Russell C. Knudson

Communicating Creatively

**What we had to do was create materials that
would lead the student, on his own, through
the explanations, examples, and exercises in
a manner you might visualize as winding a
thread through a maze to give a continuity of
direction. That is why we have been very
lucky being able to use the materials in our
classes. When we saw that the thread failed
to make it through the maze, we could go
back and re-write.’’

Classes using the manual are scheduled
to meet five days a week, but there is no
_ formal class two days of each week. On
those days, students come—independently
again—to take a quiz to determine whether
they have mastered the material from each
chapter.

If a student is not satisfied with his
performance, he is allowed to take a second
version of the quiz on the same material at
any time during the term.

‘‘Tf the second quiz grade is better than
the first, the first grade is not counted,”’
explains Knudson. “‘It is interesting to see
how, if you do give them the opportunity,
students re-study the materials, re-take the
quiz, and raise their grade. I suppose, no,
I’m absolutely sure their motivation is grade-
oriented, but the positive aspect—that of
eventual mastery of the material—remains.’’

What the process has done, essentially, is
to remove grammar study from the
classroom. Says Fralin: *‘We have not
eliminated grammar study. We’ve simply
made it more palatable than it used to be.’’
There is no more sitting in class and listening
to a professor explaining the proper method
of conjugating verbs. Instead, classroom
time is spent communicating through
practical applications of grammatical
principles.

‘*We do a lot of role-playing, a lot of
reading, during the three formal class
sessions each week,’ says Knudson. ‘‘We
might analyze the lyrics and poetic structure
of an interesting French song, for instance.
When I say ‘we,’ I actually mean ‘they.’
While in traditional classes the professor
talks to the students, we insist that the
students talk more than we do. We listen—
and correct a lot. After all, we can already
speak French. The secret to acquiring a
communication skill is really quite simple:
you must practice communicating.”

6

 

W&L junior Douglas Kuhn uses Pistes Grammaticales in the language laboratory.

Noting that he has frequently heard
professors at other schools say that teaching
intermediate French is a difficult, if not
unrewarding, task, Fralin adds that ‘‘for
Russ and me, and, I believe, for Professors
(Francis) Drake, (Edward) Hamer, and (Van)
Pate, who also give the course, intermediate
French at W&L is quite enjoyable.

‘It’s fun to observe the students’
progress, and it’s great to know that although
the course is demanding, the students
appreciate it. When someone mentions
French 161-162, I get excited because we

have something that no other college has.
But then, this is Washington and Lee, and
we are privileged. Unlike many others in our
business, we at W&L have the freedom to
concentrate maximally on professional
activities that interest us the most.’’

Knudson and Fralin are hopeful that their
manuals will be accepted for publication and
used with the taped materials for which they
were written.

Meantime, remember the French suntan
oil model? Vous ne croirez pas ce qui lui est
arrive.

   

With a weekend meeting of class agents
in September, Washington and Lee officially
began the most ambitious Annual Fund
campaign in the University’s history.

The goal of the 1982-83 Annual Fund has
been set at $1,375,000. That represents an
increase of 10 percent over the goal for
1981-82, when the Annual Fund set out to
raise $1,250,000 and wound up with a record
total of $1,279,983.

The importance of the University’s
efforts in its Annual Fund program was
underscored by President Robert E. R.
Huntley during his presentation to the class
agents.

Said Huntley: ‘‘The Annual Fund is
literally the best and brightest spot that the
fund-raising record of the last decade has to
display. It is the only area of the fund-raising
effort that significantly outstripped its
objectives.’’

But Huntley quickly added that the good
news of past Annual Fund success is
tempered by the bad, or at least sobering,
news that such success must continue.

**Overachievement has got to continue,”’
Huntley said. ‘‘And it’s going to get harder
and harder to increase the annual fund at a
rate more rapid than the rate of inflation,
because you have already done so much.”’

The key, Huntley noted, is in increasing
the participation level.

‘*To a degree, the constituency will want
to rest on their oars,’’ said Huntley, referring
to last January’s announcement that
Washington and Lee successfully completed
its 10-year, $62-million development
program with a total of $67 million.

‘Tt is true that lots of money has been

1982-83
Annual Fund
Campaign

Is Under Way

raised. But 10 to 11 years ago, we said lots
of money would have to be raised if the
school were simply to remain a vital
institution. That was a fact then. It was
proven to be a fact by events since that time.
All we’ve done in the past 12 years or so is
to raise the minimum amount of money
necessary to keep this school in a vital
position. Nothing has been done by way of
securing the school’s future. That’s fact. It’s
important that the point get across.

‘“The margin of the school’s excellence
financially has to come from the Annual
Fund constituencies—alumni, parents, and
friends. The history of the school proves that
beyond a doubt. The school’s need is not less
than it used to be; it’s probably greater than
it used to be. The more successful the school
becomes, and the better it becomes, the more
expensive it is to run.”’

Noting that Washington and Lee faces
the prospect of a highly competitive
environment as the scramble for students
becomes keener, Huntley observed that the
University will survive in such an
environment “*if—and only if—it has
something special to offer. It will not survive
if it is a pale shadow of what the fellow can
buy by going around the corner to the state
institution.

‘“We’ve got to remain excellent and get
better and better.”’

And in order to do that, the Annual Fund
becomes perhaps the most crucial element in
the University’s overall effort to remain the
strong, vital institution it has always been.

William F. Ford, ’61L, of Atlanta, will
serve again as chairman for the 1982-83
Annual Fund.

 

Annual Fund chairman William F .. Ford, ’61L, of
Atlanta (standing) addresses Class Agents as Carter
V. McNeese, associate director of development,
presides over the session.

Three of W&L’s Class Agents converse prior to one
of their meetings. From left, Loyal Gassman, ’35,
of Freeport, Ill.; Jack Neill, ’38, of Southern Pines,
N.C.; and, Charlie Longacre, ’33, of Summit, N.J.
Longacre is in his 14th consecutive year as a Class
Agent, the longest tenure of any current Class Agent
at W&L.

by Robert Fure

Pat Brady, ’37

A Conversation at Buffalo Forge: After 35 Years at W&L, a Few Chores Back Home

On September |, Pat Brady retired.

He had spent 35 years in service to
Washington and Lee, first as Superintendent
of Buildings and Grounds, and then, since
1972, as Plant Projects Manager. Under his
supervision, the University campus attained
its present distinction of exceptional beauty
and unprecedented efficiency. Others had the
dream, made the drawings, and laid the
brick. But Pat Brady saw to it that it all came
true.

* * *

A week or so after he left W&L, I visited
him at his home in the country, Buffalo
Forge. Pat and his wife Mary live about 10
miles south of Lexington: turn left at Fancy
Hill, then up and down a winding country
road under broad maples and sycamores, past
a few inquisitive cattle, and a country
church. After a sharp turn, you descend into
the hollow of Buffalo Creek, where on the
left, set back into a hill and rising serenely
above the quaint ruins of the antebellum
estate, is the manor house of Buffalo Forge.

The drive onto the grounds begins
appropriately below the house where all
habitation is hidden by tall, ancient trees and
the dilapidated stone structure of the former
mill. The drive eases you back into a former
century as you wind slowly past several
outbuildings, the lawn, and then up beside
the house. Nothing of the house seems to
take notice of your arrival. Its tall windows
and high dormers seem to gaze off into the
blue distances of the Buffalo Creek Valley.
There is an eerie, antique quiet to the place.
Your footsteps on the boards of the long
front porch resound with your own
intrusiveness.

No one answered the bell pull at the door
(because you don’t belong here, you think).
A faint clatter in one of the outbuildings
brought me to the other side of the house.
There, shirtless, bronze, and broad-
shouldered, holding a 5-gallon gas can, stood
Pat Brady, retired.

He had been out mowing a pasture. He
wiped his hands and extended a warm
handshake, smiling with amiable
embarrassment. “‘I thought it was
tomorrow.”

* * *

Buffalo Forge has undergone a careful

but friendly restoration. It is now the kind of

8

 

LED

Plant Projects Manager Brady: someone had to be there to make it all come true.

home that might appear in a magazine, but of nineteenth-century country homes. You
not in one that dotes on the fastidious, want to sit down in every room.
expensive parlors of old money; rather, in a As near as Brady can determine, the house

publication that celebrates the warm solidity was built in the late 1700’s and then purchased

 

Brady overseeing the site of the

in 1814 by William Weaver, a busi-
nessman from Philadelphia. Weaver
assumed ownership of the forge, which was
located at the spot where long ago Buffalo

new law school building, Lewis Hall.

Buffalo Forge: for Pat and Mary Brady, an ongoing project.

Creek met the North River Navigational

Canal. Weaver and his wife were childless
so they willed the place to a niece and her
husband, Brady’s great grandfather, in 1861.

2

 

 

Photographs by Sally Mann

The home has been passed down from son to
son ever since.

For the obligatory discussion of his life,
Brady put on a shirt and took me to the
library, a sober, masculine room lined with
old volumes and filled with the darkly
serious furniture of the home’s original era.
Here was where Weaver kept his accounts.
Lying open on a heavy secretary in one
corner of the room is Weaver’s old ledger,
each account inscribed in the slow, graceful
hand of a man whose labor was his art—as
with his remote descendant, perhaps, seated
now somewhat restlessly across the room.

A quiet, modest man, Brady speaks of
his career—first as a student and then as an
administrator at W&L—in comments that
seem like marginalia to a larger purpose. ‘‘I
went to W&L in 1932 to study electrical
engineering. But then after my first year
W&L discontinued electrical engineering.
With that, a good many students transferred
to other schools, but about five of us stayed
on to take degrees in general engineering.’”’

How were things different then? Brady
looks away for a minute, searching the fifty-
years-ago for something graspable. ‘‘Well,
freshmen had to wear beanies during their
first semester, and then for the rest of the
year had to wear hats.’’ Brady colors
slightly. “‘Of course we had a dress code
then. And if you didn’t live up to it you’d
get called on it and somebody would yell at
you. The Honor System was pretty
important—and, / think more strictly
enforced than it is today. Of course, a lot of
people would argue with me on that.’’ Brady
shrugs; the time is gone.

‘“Then there were the usual characters on
the faculty. Dr. Smith, a math professor, was
legendary in his ability to humiliate and awe
his students. And Dr. Dickey in engineering,
Dr. Howe, and Dr. Houston—Hale Houston.
I think he died, yes, while I was a student.’’
Brady trails off for a few moments. ‘‘There
seemed to be an epidemic of deaths during
that period . . . Dr. Campbell, a geology
professor, Dr. Lyle, an engineering
professor, then Hale Houston.”’

What were the high points of your
undergraduate years, I asked, but Brady was
still deep in his recollection: ‘‘. . . and then
Coach Wilson died—he was the football
coach. High points? Oh, I can’t say as I had

9

Pat Brady, ’37

any high points!’’ Brady laughs with genial
resistance. The question seems too much
directed at himself.

* * *

‘‘After graduation I took my degree south
and worked for 10 years in a Carolina
engineering firm.’’ Why did you come back?
He smiles. ‘‘Well, Mr. Mattingly said I got
homesick.’’ Mattingly, ‘‘a hard taskmaster’’
according to Brady, was W&L Treasurer at
the time and oversaw the buildings and
grounds operation. “‘I guess I didn’t much
care for the industrial environment, and both
my wife’s and my parents lived in this area
and were beginning to need a little looking
after. Then Dr. Dickey told me about the
opening at W&L, so I took the job as
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
That was in 1947.”’

Brady’s 35 years at Washington and Lee
brought him a variety of responsibilities,
from general maintenance to overseeing the
major construction projects on campus. *“The
really big construction began with President
Huntley’s administration. We had had
several building projects prior to his
program—Parmly, duPont, the new gym,
Evans Dining Hall and the new dorms—but
in 1972 the administration decided they
needed someone full-time to work with the
architects and contractors, so I became Plant
Projects Manager.

‘‘On these projects I served as sort of an
owner’s representative, a liaison between
W&L on the one hand and the architects and
contractors on the other—and sometimes a
peacemaker between the architects and the
contractors.’’ Laughter. *“The program was
supposed to last six years, after which time I
would return to Buildings and Grounds. But
it lasted a little longer, and then I reached
retirement age, so I never went back.’’

Brady chuckles because it all sounds sort
of flat and uneventful—35 years of paying
attention and making sure: lawnmowing,
treetrimming, plumbling, remodeling,
roadbuilding, heaving up walls and putting
in windows and doors. And then in the late
summer of 1982, after the President has
announced his retirement and the last
project—a new parking lot for the gym—is
completed, Brady takes off his hardhat, and
that’s that. Done: Lewis Hall, the new
library, the heating plant, Woods Creek

10

 

Examining William Weaver’ s old ledger: the delicate
art of local history.

Apartments, the Commerce School, the
Graham-Lees renovation, the Reeves Center,
etc. So he goes home to Buffalo Forge and
sits down for a moment with a what-do-you-
want-to-talk-to-me-for look on his face. But
that’s Pat Brady.
*K * *K

President Huntley on the lawn outside
Lee Chapel, September 21, in a small
ceremony marking Brady’s retirement: “I’m
really not going to make much of a speech—
nobody here needs to be told anything about
Pat Brady. It’s hard to think of Washington
and Lee without thinking of Pat. That’s in
part because he’s been here a long time—
hardly any of us remembers when he wasn’t
here, except maybe Mr. Latture. But the
major reason is that for all those many years
Pat has served the University in so many
capacities, and in all those capacities he has
done all of us on this campus more favors
than we can count. Not just personal favors,
but institutional favors. He has made
Washington and Lee work in a thousand
different ways, for which he will never get
adequate credit, except perhaps from those of
us who remember those things so well. So
Pat is a very special person to everybody
here. He is also one of the true gentlemen of
Lexington and Washington and Lee, a truly

gentle man—skilled, competent, but bringing
to what he does a sense of humor and a
respect for other people.

‘I’m glad to say that we have been able
to prevail upon Pat not to divorce himself
from us entirely. He has agreed to assist
from time to time in special ways that only
he can. So we’re not here to say goodbye to
Pat, just to join him for a cup of punch after
a couple of presentations.’’ Applause.

Brady received two sets of photographs, |
one of the several buildings he helped
construct, and the other of the dogwoods on
campus photographed by Frank Parsons close
up on each of the four seasons. What can
you say?

* *K *

In speaking of Brady’s service to his
community, Huntley may have been referring
to Brady’s long tenure as City Councilman
and then Mayor of Lexington. He served
through difficult times, the 60s and early
70s, years of civil unrest. Brady got talked
into running for City Council on a slate
advocating a more liberal response to civil
rights and a change in local government.

‘*Those were protest years. There were
many unpleasantries between townspeople,
and the Council always seemed to get caught
in the middle. Civil rights issues got people
pretty mad at each other. The Council
realized that it had to take a stand. Back then
the state was resisting integration but we
decided that integration was the law of the
land and that Lexington should go ahead
with it. Of course some people thought we
were going too fast and others that we were
too slow. But I think the record will show
that Lexington had fewer problems finally
than most places.”’ :

Brady didn’t want to be mayor—after 8
years he had left local government. *’But
then the mayor at the time got appointed
judge, so somebody had to do it.’’ Brady
returned to the fray, the gentle man in the
middle of it all—neighborhoods, schools,
student activism—meeting every matter, as
he still does, with quiet competence and
good humor. He served seven years. *‘Let’s
see,’’ he muses, searching for some
significance to his administration, “*that was
when the town of Lexington became a city.”’

* * *

Pat and Mary Brady moved out to

TE:

Buffalo Forge in 1977. His parents had been
gone for several years, and the place needed
life inside it. Brady had retired finally—and
more resolutely—tfrom local politics. Perhaps
he was moving now, as some men do, into
an historical period. In this case, it was local
history, his own. A board member of the
Rockbridge Historical Society, Brady knew
the whole sweep of time in the Valley, how,
when, and by whom all the old buildings in
town got built, and he could tell you all you
needed to know about pig iron and tobacco
farming back then.

So he moved out to Buffalo Forge
because something—one’s place in the sweep
of time, perhaps—required it. He began at
once to restore the house and its furnishings,

Brady on the final morning of 35 years at W&L: paying attention and making sure.

 

he and Mary taking a small apartment on the
second floor as living quarters and giving
over the rest of the house to restoration.

There is, of course, another context for
the construction involved in the renewal of
the old Brady home. By the late 70s, Brady
had already been Plant Projects Manager—
supervisor, negotiator, interpreter,
inspector—too long for a man just itching to
hammer nails himself. You can almost see
him returning to Buffalo Forge each evening
humming with ‘‘projects,’’ his jaw set and
his eyes and hands going over the woodwork
and the cracked plaster. And then, on the
weekends, off somewhere in some room
banging and sawing, sanding and varnishing,
bringing it all back.

And there’s one more context: in 1979,
PBS television filmed a documentary on
antebellum industry and slavery. Buffalo
Forge was the location. Charles Dew, an
historian from Williams College, put all the
facts in order; then Daren McGavin and
Brock Peters told the story, alternating
between the viewpoints of William Weaver
and his slaves. At the end of the program,
Pat and Mary Brady are standing on the front
lawn.

* * *

So is that why you’re doing all this?

Brady laughs. ‘‘That’s like one of those
religious questions. People ask themselves,
‘Why am I here? What is my destiny?’ Well,
I don’t know what my destiny is. I just enjoy
doing it, seeing it preserved. I suppose it has
some heritage value, but I really don’t know
what will happen to it. Maybe our daughter
will want to live here someday. Somebody
will make use of it, I guess.”’

He thinks about the question a few
moments more. He is retired now. ‘‘But
sometimes I wonder, why don’t I forget
about all this and just travel?’’ But before he
allows himself an answer, he is on his feet
again. “‘Let me take you around.’’

The house is all high ceilings and plank
flooring, with thick stone walls. Many of the
windows have the heavy, rippled panes of
another century, such that when you look
through them the world does indeed seem
different out here. Each room is filled with
antiques, true to the home’s heritage, and the
tock-tocking of old clocks.

‘*. . . I think that the original house
ended here and these rooms were added later.
. . . That little building just off to the side

of the house was the old kitchen. We use it
as a Storage shed now, but I’m going to

make it into a museum for old tools and
utensils. .. . Those buildings over there
were the slave quarters. . . . Mrs. Weaver
was pretty hard on the slaves. After she died,
people said that her ghost walked the house
at night. It’s true that things still seem to get
moved somehow from where we know we’ve
put them. And we used to find this door open
all the time even after we had closed it.’’ He
pauses for a moment, just long enough to let
the mute, unhonored past hold its mystery,
then winks: ‘‘But I fixed the latch, and now I
don’t find it open as much anymore.’’

11

by Joseph P. Potente, ’53

On the Road Again

W&L’s Glee Club Earned Rave Reviews During an Eight-Day Spring Tour to Germany

‘*Guten morgen!’’ With that cheery
greeting on Easter Sunday morning last
April, 38 members of Washington and Lee’s
well-traveled glee club stepped off a plane in
Frankfurt, Germany, slightly bleary-eyed
from the journey but eager to begin the
club’s sixth concert tour abroad in the past
12 years.

For some of my fellow glee clubbers and
for our director, associate music professor
Gordon P. Spice, this was the second trans-
Atlantic glee club tour. The first was in 1980
when the club toured England.

Our journey to Germany was to be more
extensive, however: in seven and a half days,
we would log more than a thousand miles on
Germany’s fine railway system, would sing
for approximately | ,000 enthusiastic
Germans, and, thanks to the expertise of
Robert B. Youngblood, associate professor
of German at W&L, would be expertly
guided through much of Germany’s fabled
history by visiting some of her most
important cities, museums, and churches.

All this, plus the traditional German
delights of good food and drink (you can
even get a stein of beer with your Big Mac),
provided by a warm, hospitable people,
awaited us as we sped away from the
Frankfurt airport, bound by train for our first
stop—Munich.

The planning for the tour had taken more
than a year and had involved extensive
correspondence and personal visits by
Professor Youngblood, who arranged all the
concerts, housing, and transportation within
Germany as well as personally
accompanying, guiding, and translating for
us. He was even a superb restaurant guide,
pointing us toward the best places to eat and
several of the country’s legendary beer halls.

We gave concerts in Eichstatt in Bavaria
and in Bayreuth and Bamberg in Franconia.
In each city, our overnight housing was
provided by German families and
coordinated through particular individuals
with whom W&L, through Professor
Youngblood, has had long association.

In assigning us to families, an effort was
made to be certain that those singers who did
not speak German, like myself, were housed
with families who spoke some English. Even
so, the barrier that I had worried about
before leaving Lexington did appear when I

12

in Wurzburg.

met my family in Eichstatt—but not for long.
Despite the language barrier, we got along
wonderfully. I never thought talking with
anyone could be so exhausting, yet
rewarding.

This personal contact with the families
was perhaps the most memorable part of the
tour for all of us. Each time we left one city
and boarded the train for the next stop, our
host families would see us off at the train
station. Gifts and addresses were invariably
exchanged. And there was always the

Professor Robert Youngblood (center in Bavarian hat) explains the architectural splendor of the Residenz

 

 

traditional German waving of white
handkerchiefs from train windows and
station platforms (until the handkerchiefs were
out of sight).

We toured by day and sang by night.
Though the time was relatively short,
Professor Youngblood kept us moving from
one magnificent church to another, from one
castle to the next, always imparting his
boundless knowledge of German cultural
history. Take, for instance, the Residenz, a
baroque castle in Wurzburg that contains

more than 1,000 bedrooms. Why so many
bedrooms? As Professor Youngblood
explained, the prince-archbishops loved to
throw parties and needed places for their
guests to spend the night. Imagine changing
the sheets!

Each city on the tour left distinct
impressions. Following our concert in
Eichstatt, we were the guests at a party given
by our hosts and featuring the town’s
Bavarian brass band as well as its male
chorus, the Bose-Buben-Club—or Bad Boys
Club.

In Bayreuth, we were all extremely
impressed with and intrigued by our tour of
two of the world’s most famous opera
houses: the Festspielhaus, Richard Wagner’s
opera house, and the Markgrafliches
Opernhaus, one of the oldest (dating to 1748)
and finest baroque theatres in Germany. Just
walking through these famous buildings was
a wonderful experience. What made it even
more delightful was the opportunity we were
given to stand on the stage and perform one
of our concert selections in these splendid
buildings with their unbelievable acoustics.

Our concert in Bayreuth was given at the
Schlosskirche (or Royal Church). The
program that evening began in the balcony of
the church, where the organ accompanied
several compositions. From there, we moved
to the front of the altar for more sacred
selections, sung unaccompanied. The secular
part of the concert was performed in the
church hall, a castle tower adjacent to the
sanctuary. Although we were concerned that
half our listeners might not follow us to that
location for the rest of our concert, we
actually performed to a standing-room-only
crowd there.

Our final concert of the tour was given at
the University of Bamberg, where the
audience was unquestionably the most
enthusiastic we had seen. The applause grew
louder with each selection. When we sang
the “‘W&L Swing,’’ the crowd reacted with
the same fervor that the ‘‘Swing’”’
customarily generates in Lee Chapel. At the
end of the concert, the audience would not
stop applauding and stamping their feet.
Professor Spice had to send ‘‘Southern
Comfort,’’ the glee club’s small ensemble,
back to the stage for several encores.

That our tour was as much a success for

   

Sampling the local brew while being serenaded by the town band at Eichstatt

Chief Mayor Ludwig Kartner of Eichstatt (center) is flanked by German professor Robert y oungblood

 

 

ge:

 

(left) and Glee Club director Gordon Spice in post-concert ceremonies in Eichstatt.

our audiences as it was for us could best be
determined by the reviews that our
performances received in German
newspapers. The review from Bayreuth, for
instance, praised the glee club’s ‘‘alacrity in
dynamics’’ and added that ‘‘the chorus
responded with great agility and effect,
rhythmic certainty, very pliantly,
extraordinarily differentiated dynamics, and
range of tone.’’

The Spices remained in Europe after the
tour as did Professor Youngblood, who

directed the University’s spring term in
Germany, and six of our members, who
participated in one of W&L’s European
spring term abroad programs.

Consequently, our departure from the
Frankfurt airport was an emotional one as the
Spices bade a final farewell to the 13
graduating seniors in the group.

Back in Lexington eight days and a few
hours after we had left, we were all
exhausted but filled with great memories of a
successful tour.

13

Recent Gifts

Merit Scholarship Funded; Audio-Visual System Made Possible; Biology Department Aided

 

Philip Morris
scholarship fund
honors Huntley

 

Washington and Lee University has
received a $100,000 grant from Philip Morris
Incorporated to create an endowed
scholarship fund that will honor W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley.

Huntley, a member of the Philip Morris
board of directors, will retire as Washington
and Lee’s president on December 31 after 14
years in the post.

In establishing the Philip Morris Merit
Scholarship at W&L, Philip Morris
Incorporated is recognizing Huntley’s
exceptional service to Washington and Lee
as well as his service to Philip Morris.

The Philip Morris Merit Scholarships will
become part of Washington and Lee’s
program of honor scholarships, which are

 

President Huntley: honored by scholarship fund.

14

awarded primarily on merit and are designed
to attract to the University students who
demonstrate unusual promise for future
service and leadership.

Each Philip Morris Merit Scholar will
receive financial aid in the full amount of
Washington and Lee’s annual tuition. The
first such scholar will be named for the 1983-
84 academic year.

‘*This generous gift from Philip Morris
continues that company’s long tradition of
support for private higher education,
particularly in the Commonwealth of
Virginia,’’ said James M. Ballengee, rector
of the Washington and Lee board of trustees.
‘Honoring President Huntley in this manner
is entirely appropriate since the scholarship
fund will enable Washington and Lee to
expand the financial aid program that has
grown so impressively during Bob Huntley’s
presidency.’’

William M. Hartog, director of
admissions at Washington and Lee, noted
that the Philip Morris Merit Scholarship
program will be an important addition to the
University’s expanding program of honor
scholarships.

‘*Our ability to maintain the high
academic standards that have always been the
preeminent concern of our admissions effort
is greatly enhanced by scholarship programs
such as the one created by Philip Morris
Incorporated,’’ said Hartog.

The Philip Morris Merit Scholarships will
be awarded on a competitive basis.
Applicants’ secondary school records and
College Board examination scores will be
considered as will their records of
achievement and leadership in extracurricular
activities. The scholarships will be awarded
by a special committee of the University.

The $100,000 grant from Philip Morris
Incorporated is the second major gift the
company has made to Washington and Lee.
Philip Morris previously made a $100,000
gift to the renovation and remodeling of the
Commerce School Building. That gift has
been recognized in the naming of one of the
Commerce School Building’s classrooms as
the Philip Morris Classroom.

 

Northen gift funds
audio-visual system
for auditorium

 

Washington and Lee University has
received a $77,000 gift from Mary Moody
Northen, Inc., a private foundation
established by Mrs. Mary Moody Northen of
Galveston, Texas, for an audio-visual system
that will be used primarily in the University
Library’s Northen Auditorium.

Funds from the gift will be applied toward
the purchase of equipment and programming
materials that will enable the University to
make maximum use of the exciting audio-
visual potential that is part of the
auditorium’s design.

The 100-seat Northen Auditorium and its
expansive lobby area are named in honor and
recognition of Mrs. Northen’s earlier gift of
$350,000 in support of the $9-million
undergraduate library.

‘*Because of Mrs. Northen’s continuing
generosity, we will be in a position to equip
the auditorium already bearing her name in

 

Board of Trustees

Each member of the Board of Trustees is elected to a maximum of
two consecutive six-year terms. The trustees elect all members,
with the alumni body nominating one candidate every two years.

James M. Ballengee, Rector Radnor, Pennsylvania
President and Chairman, Enterra Corp.

Robert E.R. Huntley, President : Lexington, Virginia
President, Washington and Lee University

John D. Wilson, President-Elect Blacksburg, Virginia

President, Washington and Lee University
(Effective February 1, 1983)

Thomas D. Anderson Houston, Texas
Attorney, Anderson Brown Orn & Jones

Fred Fox Benton, Jr. Houston, Texas
President, Houston Oil & Minerals Corp.

Thomas B. Branch, Iil Atlanta, Georgia
Attorney, Wildman, Harrold, Allen, Dixon & Masinter

Frank C. Brooks Baltimore, Maryland
Executive Vice President and Treasurer, Tongue, Brooks & Co., Inc.

Thomas Hal Clarke Atlanta, Georgia
Attorney, Mitchell, Clarke, Pate, Anderson & Wimberly

_A. Christian Compton Richmond, Virginia

Justice, Supreme Court of Virginia

E. Waller Dudley Alexandria, Virginia
Attorney, Boothe, Prichard & Dudley

Thomas C. Frost, Jr. San Antonio, Texas
Chairman of the Board, Cullen/Frost Bankers, Inc.

‘Houston H. Harte San Antonio, Texas
Chairman of the Board, Harte-Hanks Communications

C. Royce Hough Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Senior Vice President, Wachovia Bank & Trust Company

Christoph Keller, Jr. Alexandria, Louisiana
Inglewood Plantation

SL Kopald, Jr. Memphis, Tennessee
Vice President, Witco Chemical Corp.

H. Gordon Leggett, Jr. Lynchburg, Virginia
Vice President/Public Relations-Personnel; Secretary, Leggett Stores, Inc.

Sydney Lewis Richmond, Virginia
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Best Products Co., Inc.

Ross R. Millhiser New York, New York
Vice Chairman, Philip Morris, Inc.

J. Alvin Philpott Lexington, North Carolina
Former President, Burlington Furniture

Isadore M. Scott Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Chairman of the Board, TOSCO Corp.

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. Charlottesville, Virginia
Commonwealth Professor of English, The University of Virginia

Isaac N. Smith, Jr. Charleston, West Virginia
President, Kanawha Banking and Trust Co.

Jerry G. South San Francisco, California
President, BA Mortgage and International Realty Corp.

Calvert Thomas Hartford, Connecticut
Thomas Cadillac, Inc.

J. Thomas Touchton Tampa, Florida

Managing Partner, The Witt Company

oO

OTT
Lexington, Virginia

—
|| Washington and Lee

 

Facts
1982-83

 

 

Washington
and Lee
University

 

 

Washington and Lee University was
founded in 1749 as Augusta Academy.
Successive institutions were Liberty Hall
Academy (1776), Washington Academy
(1798), Washington College (1813), and
Washington and Lee University (1871).

George: Washington saved the school
from financial ruin in 1796 by making the
first substantial gift to its endowment.
Robert E. Lee saved the school from
threatened obscurity after the Civil War by
serving as its president from 1865 until his
death in 1870.

. Purpose: The University is a private col-

lege for men, devoted at the undergradu-
ate level to educational excellence in the
liberal arts and sciences and in business,
and in the School of Law, which is coedu-
cational, solely to the highest quality of
professional legal education. It is dedi-
cated to remaining one of the nation’s
outstanding teaching colleges. It remains
small by choice, making possible close
associations between students and fac-
ulty in a climate of learning that stresses
the importance of the individual and his
personal honor and his responsibility to
serve society through the productivity of
his training and talent.

Governance: The University is governed
by a Board of Trustees of 26 members and
is independently and privately financed.

President of the University:
Robert E.R. Huntley, B.A., LL.M.
President-Elect of the University:
John D. Wilson, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.
(Assumes Office February 1, 1983)

Divisions: The College (humanities and
natural sciences); The School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics (econom-
ics, politics, accounting, and administra-
tion); The School of Law.

Location: Lexington, Virginia is a historic
city of 7,500 population situated in the
central part of the Great Valley of Virginia,
one of the nation’s most scenic areas.
Lexington is also the home of Virginia
Military Institute, the post of which abuts
the campus of the University.

Campus: The main campus consists of
approximately 55 acres. In addition, there
are about 40 acres of playing fields and
210 acres of unimproved land.

There are 29 principal buildings, including
the historic and picturesque Washington
College group that forms the familiar Col-
onnade, facing famous Lee Chapel.

The front campus was designated a Na-
tional Historic Landmark in 1972, joining
Lee Chapel which had already been so
designated.

 

Academic More than 700 different undergraduate

 

(le fhe Te WY aly Bia fe te Me Ce 2

ify Y dp Reb fia fc tu tk Ad Ag ¢

Cs fa ke Hoty Wo Re Gy be PL au Bd

     

Pt He At ce te Med

 

courses are taught each year at Washing-
ton and Lee. An extensive faculty advisor
system provides counseling, but under-
graduate students are allowed maximum
freedom in selecting courses.

Degrees Offered: In The College —
Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science,
Bachelor of Science with Special Attain-
ments in Chemistry; in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics —
Bachelor of Arts with major in economics
or politics, Bachelor of Science with major
in business administration; in the School
of Law —Juris Doctor.

Undergraduate Majors:
Art
Biology
Business Administration
Business Administration
and Accounting
Chemistry
Chemistry-Engineering
Classics
Drama
East Asian Studies
Economics
English
French
Geology
German
History
Independent Work
Journalism
Mathematics
Natural Sciences
and Mathematics
Philosophy
Physics
Physics-Engineering
Politics
Psychology
Psychology, Biology
and Sociology
Public Policy
Religion
Romance Languages
Sociology and Anthropology
Spanish

In addition, course work is available in
Chinese, Comparative Literature, Com-
puter Science, Italian, Military Science,
Music, Physical Education, Public Speak-
ing, Russian, and Japanese, and there
are special programs in Pre-Professional
Ethics (Journalism, Law, Medicine and
Business), Teacher Certification, and So-
cial Work (with Mary Baldwin College).

The average undergraduate class size is
slightly less than 15 students; the
student-faculty ratio is 11 to 1.

Degrees Awarded, 1981-82

Bachelor of Arts 206
Bachelor of Science 46
Bachelor of Science
in Commerce 41
Juris Doctor 107
Honorary 3
Total 403

 

Students

 

In 1982-83, students came to Washington
and Lee from 47 states and 11 foreign
countries. About one-fourth of the student
body is from Virginia.

Enrollment, Fall 1982

The College 1,081
School of Commerce,
~ Economics, and Politics 244
The School of Law 364
Special and Exchange
Students 25
Total 1,714

Freshmen: Of the 360 students entering
in the fall of 1982, 81 percent ranked in the
top two-fifths of their high school classes.
The average Scholastic Aptitude Test
scores of the entering class were 565
Verbal and 610 Math.

Honor System: The most enduring influ-
ence on the lives of Washington and Lee
men is an Honor System which is adminis-
tered entirely by the students themselves.
The only penalty for violation of the Honor
System is permanent dismissal from the
University.

Student Government: Students are
given a large measure of freedom in gov-
erning their own affairs and have repre-
sentatives on most faculty committees. A
12-member Executive Committee of the
Student Body, elected by the students, is
the principal student government organi-
zation and the sole administrator of the
Honor System. The Student Activities
Board and the Interfraternity Council are
active in helping students plan social, cul-
tural, and recreational functions.

 

Faculty

 

The University places its highest priority
on recruiting and retaining a faculty of the
highest distinction.

Undergraduate Faculty:

Full-time 132

Part-time 6
Law Faculty:

Full-time 17

Part-time 13

Percentage of undergraduate faculty with
earned doctorates (excluding physical
education, military science, and library):
84 percent.

Although faculty members regard teach-
ing as their primary duty, virtually all en-
gage in research or creative work. In
1981-82, faculty members produced 12
books and monographs, 64 published ar-
ticles, 65 papers, and a number of book
reviews, poems, musical compositions,
and works of art. Many faculty members
are editors or contributing editors of
learned publications and hold offices in
academic or professional societies.

 

 

Financial
Aid

 

The University’s objective is to be able to
award student financial aid equal to the
demonstrated need to all who require it. In
the typical aid package, a student is re-
quired to borrow no more than $1,500 of
his computed need and receives the bal-
ance in the form of scholarship grants and
an on-campus job. |

Aid 1981-82
Students receiving aid 350

(Includes need-based and merit scholars)

Percentage of student body
need-based aid 20%
need-based and merit scholars 26%

Total amount awarded $1,600,000

Financial

 

Total Budget 1982-83 $16,956,700
Endowment
Market Value 1982 $34,129,434

Income and Expenditures as a Percent-
age of the 1982-83 Educational and Gen-
eral Budget:

Income
Tuition and fees 64%
Endowment earnings 9%
Gifts for current
operations 11%

Income from trusts and
other miscellaneous

income 10%

Pratt fund 6%
Expenditures

Instructional 60%
Student services 10%
Administrative 9%
Plant operation

and maintenance - 16%

Other expenses, debt
retirement and

interest 5%
Endowment per student
1982-83 $20,327

 

Development
Program

The University completed a ten year De-
velopment Program in December 1981 by
exceeding the $62-million goal by $5 mil-
lion. The principal improvements provided
were Lewis Hall, new home of the School
of Law; Warner Center, an addition to the
gymnasium; a new University library

 

building; a new home for the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics; the
remodeling and restoration of Tucker and
Newcomb Halls, and many other campus
improvements including expanded stu-
dent housing; $23 million was added to
the endowment; the Annual Fund was
nearly quadrupled during the ten-year
period. Since the completion of the De-
velopment Program, emphasis has been
placed on increasing the number and size
of Washington and Lee’s scholarships
and on the continued enlargement of the
Annual Fund and the endowment.

 

University
Library

 

The University’s new undergraduate |li-
brary, which opened in January 1979, is
the largest academic building on the cam-
pus, holding more than 568,000 books,
government documents, periodicals, se-
rials, microforms, and cassettes. The li-
brary also contains the Lee Archives, the
University Archives, and important family
papers of those who have contributed to
the development of the Valley of Virginia,
the State of Virginia, and the nation.

The building has space for 500,000 books
alone, plus all other collections, and pro-
vides seating for as many as 800 stu-
dents, including individual study areas for
more than 600. Locked study rooms,
seminars, smoking lounges, and an au-
ditorium are also within the facility.

 

Athletics

 

Washington and Lee bases its intercol-
legiate athletic program on the premise
that sports are an integral part of the total
educational process. As a member of the
NCAA Division III the University does not
award athletic scholarships; all financial
aid is determined by need and academic
merit.

Over 270 undergraduates compete in
Wé&Ls 13 varsity sports: baseball, bas-
ketball, cross country, football, golf, indoor
track, lacrosse, outdoor track, soccer,
swimming, tennis, water polo, and wres-
tling. The University also sponsors junior
varsity teams in several sports.

W&L is a charter member of the 14-
college Old Dominion Athletic Conference
founded in 1976. The Generals compete
in nine of the ODAC’s ten men’s sports.

The J.W. Warner Center, with its main
gymnasium, pool, locker rooms, weight
rooms and handball/racquetball/squash
courts, is the hub of athletic activity. Out-
door facilities include Wilson Field
(stadium, natural surface field, and track),
Smith Baseball Field, an eight-court ten-
nis center, 8000-meter cross country
course, and several practice fields.

 

Fraternities

There are 16 national social fraternities on
campus, and. a large portion of social life
revolves around the fraternity chapters.
About 65 percent of students affiliate with
fraternities.

The chapters are Beta Theta Pi, Chi Psi,
Delta Tau Delta, Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Delta
Theta, Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Kappa Psi,
Phi Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, Pi
Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma
Chi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Zeta Beta
Tau.

 

Alumni

 

The University’s 17,000 alumni are widely
dispersed throughout the nation. The
Washington and Lee Alumni Association
is the organization of all alumni and it is
represented by a 16-man Alumni Board of
Directors, elected by the membership.

Alumni Chapters, organizations of local
alumni, have been established in 70 lo-
Calities or areas.

Alumni, through an annual giving pro-
gram, provided funds which cover about
10 percent of the. University’s current
operating expenses.

 

Special
Programs

The University offers a variety of pro-
grams of exceptional academic merit and
practical value: Honors Work, Robert E.
Lee Undergraduate Research Program,
Six-week Spring Term, Combined Plan
Program in Engineering, Independent
Work and Interdepartmental Majors, Area
College Exchange Program, East Asian
Study Program, Pre-Professional Ethics
Program, Foreign Study Programs, 3-3
Program in Law, and 3-2 Forestry Pro-
gram leading to a Master’s Degree at
Duke University.

 

Distinctive
Features

Washington and Lee has several features
which it may truly call its own or which are
rare on other campuses:

A century-old, cherished Honor System
that works.

The Fancy Dress Ball, a mid-winter dance
weekend that is recognized as one of the
most notable in the country.

A quadrennial student-organized and
student-conducted Mock Convention that
has a remarkable record of accuracy in
picking the presidential candidate for the
party out of power.

 

Educational "ition

Costs

Undergraduate $5,800
Law $5,800

1983-84 Average Room

and Board $2,720

 

Mrs. Mary Moody Northen when she attended the
dedication of the University Library in 1980.

such a manner that it can become a center of
intellectual and cultural activity on the
campus,’’ said Washington and Lee
president Robert E. R. Huntley of the gift.

Although the audio-visual equipment
purchased with the gift will be designed for
primary use in Northen Auditorium, the
nature of the equipment is such that it will
lend itself to other audio-visual needs
throughout the campus.

The equipment will include a video
projection system, a satellite television
antenna, a video tape editing console, a
computer graphics generator, a multi-image
controller for slide projections, and carefully
selected programming materials.

Washington and Lee will make the
equipment accessible to neighboring Virginia
Military Institute through a program of
cooperative involvement.

Mrs. Northen is a director of the
American National Insurance Company,
Moody National Bank, and Gal-Tex Hotel
Company. She is also, among other things, a
trustee of the Moody Foundation, the Sam
Rayburn Foundation, the Galveston Historic
Foundation, Hollins College, and VMI. She
is a director of the Texas Historical
Foundation and the Medical Research
Foundation of Texas.

 

Fund for biology
honors memory
of Dr. Roberts

 

Mrs. Henry S. Roberts of Lexington has
made a $10,000 gift to Washington and Lee
to create the Dr. Henry S. Roberts Fund for
Biology at the University.

The fund is named in honor of Mrs.
Roberts’ late husband, a former professor of
biology and department head at Washington
and Lee.

Dr. Roberts, who died in 1974, joined
the Washington and Lee faculty in 1964 after
18 years on the faculty at Duke University
where he had been director of graduate
studies in zoology.

He served as chairman of the University’s
curriculum committee when the University
was in the process of developing its new
system of degree and course-credit
requirements and its innovative academic
calendar, a 12-12-6 plan the University
continues to observe.

While head of the department of biology,

he reorganized the department’s course
offerings substantially including the
introduction of a series of advanced
seminars. He also developed an arrangement
with Duke University’s Marine Laboratory to
permit biology and chemistry students from
Washington and Lee to study marine science
at the laboratory on the North Carolina coast.

In 197] Dr. and Mrs. Roberts travelled
throughout the country during his sabbatical
leave when he visited biology departments at
numerous colleges to evaluate Washington
and Lee’s program in comparison to the
programs he found at other institutions.

A native of Macon, Ga., he earned his
bachelor’s degree from Mercer University
and his Ph.D. in zoology from Duke. He was
widely known as an authority in the field of
cytokinesis, the changes which occur in
protoplasm during cell division.

‘‘Mrs. Roberts’ gift is an especially
fitting memorial to Pat Roberts as he was
always aware that Washington and Lee,
being a private institution, was heavily
dependent upon financial support from
friends and alumni of the University,’’ said
Thomas G. Nye II, head of the department of
biology at Washington and Lee.

Mrs. Roberts made her gift through the
University’s pooled income fund.

 

Mrs. Henry S. Roberts discusses details of her gift to Washington and Lee with William J. Watt (left), dean
of the College, and Thomas G. Nye II, head of the biology department.

 

   

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Couch to clerk
for J ustice Powell

_ Robert M. Couch, a 1982 2 graduate of the
1 Lee University School of —
Law, ‘has received an appointment as clerk
for Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell
ro ==

 

Couch will begin his clerkship in July ;
1983. The eects is for one year. _

     
  

Prize, which is awa
graduate who has m
for general excellence
law school career.

A native of. Texarkana, Ark. Couch
served as ie articles editor of the |

 

  
   
 

 

ur clerks tor receive | _ John F. DeVogt, professor of pre-professional students i in medicine, law,
from Justice Powell, who administration, and Louis W. Hodges, and journalism.
bachelor’s and law degrees _ professor of religion, will teach the course Hodges is the director of the Society and
d Lee. Only applicants jointly. | the Professions program and has been a co-

   

with outstanding law, school records are | ~DeVogt explained that ‘‘while we have teacher in the seminars.
considered, and several hundred apply each been addressing these kinds of questions: ona In addition, Washington and Lee has |
| | offered a business ethics component during a
two-week summer program in the humanities
for middle and upper level executives. The
Washington and Lee Institute for Executives
has been held for the past two summers with
Hodges serving as academic director.
‘‘Many graduate business schools offer a.
| | sraduate rrently © disci s of specific ae separate course in business ethics, but there —
serving i in state and federal judicial involving -day decisions are few such courses available on the
clerkships. 7 a = _ executives must make. = =—_ undergraduate level,”” said DeVogt, noting
| = Tn addition to the seminar for Washingt that Washington and Lee’s business
curriculum is distinctive because it is solidly
oriented toward the liberal arts tradition.
DeVogt joined the Washington and Lee
faculty i in I 962. He was named head of the
ment of administration in 1969. He is
past president of the Southern Management
Association and served as president of the
Virginia School Boards Association. He has
been on the advisory y board of editors, of the |

 

 

 

    
 
 

 

 

ce st ti J ournal of: Business Research. :
| term, will examine ‘the moral dimensions of d the Washington and Lee
business decisions. — 0. He i is the co-author of. a

                 

 

 

 

Christian and His Decisions: An
Introduction to Christian Ethics and has
published a number of articles on ethics. He
has also been a faculty member for the
Hastings Center Workshop on Ethics and the
Professions in 1979, 1980 and 1981.

 

 

Gallery opens
1982-83 season

**The American Scene: 1920-1940,’’ an
exhibition of 42 prints from the collection of
the Museum of Modern Art, New York, was
the first exhibition at Washington and Lee
University’s duPont Gallery this year.

Organized by Riva Castleman, director of
the department of prints and illustrated books
at the Museum of Modern Art along with
assistant curator Audrey Isselbacher, the
exhibition demonstrated the manner in which
painters of the time turned to printmaking as
they attempted to create an art that would be
truly American.

 

 

Faculty activity

—William J. Watt, dean of the College at
Washington and Lee, has been named
chairman of the National Dean’s Conference
for 1982-83. Watt, a member of the national
organization since 1973, will preside over
the annual meeting scheduled for July 24-27,
1983, on the campus of Oklahoma State
University in Stillwater, Okla. The
conference’s topic will be ‘‘The Qualities of
Academic Leadership.’’

—Halford Ryan, associate professor of
public speaking at Washington and Lee
University, has published his third major
article in the Quarterly Journal of Speech.
Ryan’s article, entitled ‘‘Kategoria and
Apologia: On Their Rhetorical Criticism as a
Speech Set,’’ argues that speeches of
accusation motivate speeches of apology. In
his article, Ryan uses the historical example
of Pope Leo X versus Martin Luther to help
illustrate his theory. The essay was
developed as a project in a National
Endowment for the Humanities Summer
Seminar that Ryan attended at Ohio State

 

William Z. Watt

University in 1981.

—Charles V. Laughlin, professor of law
emeritus at the Washington and Lee
University School of Law, is a major
contributor to a new volume on legal
education which has recently been published
by the University Press of Virginia. ‘‘Legal
Education in Virginia, 1779-1979” by W.
Hamilton Bryson traces the history of legal
education in the Commonwealth through
biographical sketches of all deceased law
teachers in Virginia from George Wythe,
who first started teaching law in 1779, to
those who died before the beginning of 1979.
Laughlin, who retired from active teaching at
W&L in 1977 after 37 years at the W&L
School of Law, contributed 27 of the
biographical sketches contained in the
volume.

—Washington and Lee University law
professor Thomas L. Shaffer was a principal
speaker for a one-day conference at the
University of Baltimore School of Law in
October. Shaffer was one of three principal
speakers for the event, which is entitled
‘*Conference on the Professional
Responsibilities of Teachers in Local Law
Schools.”’

The conference was held in the

University of Baltimore’s new Law Center in
downtown Baltimore.

 

 

O’Brien joins
W&L faculty

Fabius P. O’Brien has been appointed
assistant professor of administration in the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics at Washington and Lee University.

O’Brien joins the Washington and Lee
faculty after serving in the department of
management of Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University in Blacksburg. He was a
graduate research assistant there in 1981-82
and an instructor in 1980-81.

A native of Southport, N.C., O’Brien
received both his B.S. and M.S. degrees
from Virginia Tech. He was previously
employed as assistant to the dean of the
Virginia Tech College of Business and has
also been a research associate with the CETA
Education Research Project at Virginia Tech.

O’Brien is co-director of a study of the
attitudes of future managers toward labor
unions. That study 1s being conducted at
Virginia Tech.

He is a member of the Academy of
Management, the American Psychological
Association, and the Industrial Relations
Research Association. He has been elected to
Omicron Delta Epsilon, the international
honor society in economics.

 

 

Oxford psychologist
visiting professor

A prominent British psychologist who
has written extensively and conducted
important research on the psychology of fear
and stress is in residence at Washington and
Lee University this fall as part of W&L’s
faculty exchange program with Oxford
University in England.

Dr. Jeffrey A. Gray is a visiting
professor of psychology for the fall term. He
is conducting two classes—a laboratory class
in physiological psychology and a seminar
on fear and stress.

Gray is University Lecturer in

21

   
 
 

| ty College, a a component institution
of a
Gray’s current research interests involve

  

  

Psychology ¢ 7 Fear rand Stress, and a “1982
volume, The Neuropsychology of Anxiety. He

 

 

 

 

         

 

 

 

 

                  

 

 

   

 

 

 

  

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L alumni who serve
as general counsel

The office of general counsel is of com-
manding importance in the world of modern
business. Litigation in business relations is be-
coming more and more prevalent and complex.
For these positions men of legal competence,
skill and judgment are required.

Washington and Lee men fill a number of
these challenging positions. The list given here
is based on questionnaires returned to the
Alumni Office in response to a request for up-
to-date information for a new Alumni Direc-
tory. The list is limited to the names of persons
who used the term general counsel. It may be
that other terms, such as corporate counsel, are
the equivalent and might well have been in-
cluded here. Corrections and additions should
be called to the attention of Rupert N. Latture,
Washington Hall, Lexington, Va. 24450.

Willis M. Anderson, ’52, General Counsel,
Shenandoah Life Insurance Company, Roa-
noke, Va.

Michael P. Bagley, ’75, General Counsel,
Computer Systems of America, Inc., Boston,
Mass.

Robert L. Banse, ’53, General Counsel,
Merck and Company, Rahway, N.J.

Charles M. Berger, ’68, General Counsel,
Huyck Corporation, Raleigh, N.C.

Robert R. Black, °67, General Counsel,
Amax Nickel Division, Greenwich, Conn.

William P. Boardman, ’63, General Coun-
sel, BancOhio, Columbus, Ohio

Marvin C. Bowling Jr., °51, General
Counsel, Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation,
Richmond, Va.

Harry J. Breithaupt Jr., °36, General
Counsel, Association of American Railroads,
Washington, D.C.

Craig Bremer, ’70, General Counsel, Sus-
quehanna Broadcasting Company, York, Pa.

Peter B. Brittin, ’74, General Counsel,
International Coins and Currency, Moscow,
Vt.

H. Debaun Bryant, ’49, General Counsel,
Brown and Williamson Industries, Louisville,
Ky.

Martin P. Burks III >32, General Counsel
(retired) Norfolk and Western Railway, Roa-
noke, Va.

 

Page D. Cranford, ’58, General Counsel,
Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Va.

Jack A. Crowder, ’50, General Counsel,
American Textile Manufacturing Company,
Washington, D.C.

Jaroslav Drabek, 53, General Counsel,
American Flange and Manufacturing Com-
pany, Larchmont, N.Y.

Edward E. Ellis, ’56, General Counsel,
Holiday Inns, Memphis, Tenn.

Thomas L. Feazell, 62, Associate General
Counsel, Ashland Oil Company, Ashland,
Ky.

Thomas A. Ferguson Jr., °73, Assistant
General Counsel, Oklahoma Tax Commission,
Edmond, Okla.

Reinhard W. Fischer, ’71, Associate Gen-
eral Counsel, Southwest Forest Industries,
Phoenix, Ariz.

John J. Flood, ’51, General Counsel, New
Hampshire Insurance Company, Manchester,
N.H.

C. Christopher Giragosian, ’73, Associate
Corporation Counsel, Bank of Virginia, Rich-
mond, Va.

John F. Hanzel, °74, General Counsel,
Amvest Corporation, Roanoke, Va.

Marion G. Heatwole, ’46, General Coun-
sel, U.S. Steel Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa.

B. Michael Herman, ’74, General Counsel,
Blue Cross-Blue Shield, Roanoke, Va.

Ernest M. Holdaway, ’51, General Coun-
sel, Southern States Cooperatives, Richmond,
Va.

A. Linwood Holton, ’44, General Counsel,
American Council of Life Insurance, Wash-
ington, D.C.

Philip M. Lanier, ’50, General Counsel,
Seaboard Coastline Industries, Louisville, Ky.

Tom L. Larimore, ’59, General Counsel,
Western Company of North America, Fort
Worth, Texas

Stephen F. Lichtenstein, °53, General
Counsel, Lenox, Inc., Lawrenceville, N.J.

Burton L. Litwin, *51, General Counsel,
Belwin-Mills Publishing Corporation, Dobbs
Ferry, N.Y.

Walter J. McGraw, °55, General Counsel,
Continental Financial Services, Richmond,
Va.

Thomas N. McJunkin, ’74, General Coun-
sel, Amherst Coal Company, Charleston,
W.Va.

Michael W. McLaughlin, °79, General
Counsel, SCS Engineers, Reston, Va.

William C. Miller, °61, Associate General
Counsel, Xerox Corporation, Stamford, Conn.

Robert E. Minor, ’71, General Counsel,
Coal Systems, Birmingham, Ala.

Lewis S. Minter, °57, General Counsel,
State Corporation Commission, Richmond,
Va.

Richard L. Mitchell, 67, General Counsel,
Worthington Pump Corporation, Mountain-
side, N.J.

John S. Moremen, ’57, General Counsel,
Brown-Foreman Distillers = Corporation,
Louisville, Ky.

Thomas P.. O’ Dell, ’76, General Counsel,
Citizens Bank, Elizabethtown, Ky.

James A. Philpott Jr., °72, General Coun-
sel, Gainesway Farm, Inc., Lexington, Ky.

James A. Pine, °42, General Counsel,
Public Service Commission, Baldwin, Md.

David L. Ross, °69, General Counsel,
Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Va.

Stephen A. Sharp, °69, General Counsel,
Federal Communications Commission, Wash-
ington, D.C.

Francis A. Sutherland Jr., °65, General
Counsel, Life Insurance Company of Virginia,
Richmond, Va.

R. John Taylor, *76, General Counsel,
Agriculture Insurance Administration, Lewis-
ton, Idaho

Charles B. Tomm, ’75, General Counsel,
Arkansas Best Corporation, Ft. Smith, Ark.

S. Maynard Turk, ’52, General Counsel,
Hercules Inc., Wilmington, Del.

E. Stephen Walsh, ’64, General Counsel,
Fahnstock Brokerage Company, Bronxville,
N.Y.

Stephen H. Watts, °68, General Counsel,
Commonwealth Natural Resources, Richmond,
Va.

Ed White, ’30, General Counsel (retired),
Western Railroad Association, Western
Springs, IIl.

John C. White, °40, General Counsel,
Private Truck Council of America, Washing-
ton, D.C.

J. Gregory Wilson, ’72, General Counsel,
Bank Credit Life Insurance Company, Harri-
son, Ariz.

23

eption for entering W&L alumni admissions re calle

 

 

 

}

   

freshmen Kevin Horner, Chuck Cheney, Pat Valder, Jimmy White, Dain
Dulaney, John Templeton, Ed Barnes, and Andy St. John.

LONG ISLAND—Chapter President Ken Van de Water, ’41, (lower right) with
undergraduate freshmen at reception in Garden City.

 

   

UPPER POTOMAC—At meeting were (first row) L. C. Atkins, ’68; Dr. E. C. WASHINGTON, D.C.—Enjoying themselves at the home of Ranny Rouse, ’39,
Miller, ’23;G. M. Thomas, ’83; J. G. Jackson, ’14; A. D. Dardy, ’43;C.R. are J. Timothy Thompson, ’74, chapter treasurer, and Waller ‘‘Beau’’ Dudley,

 

Beall, ’56; (second row) E. C. Miller Jr., ’53; J. J. Popular II, ’56; L. L. °74, ’79L, and guests.
Helmer, ’36; W. L. Wilson, ’38L; J. A. Black, ’34; T. N. Berry, ’38; D. W.
Mason, ’51L.

i , | i. : Jf Ge EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—At reception for freshmen are Martha

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—WAL freshmen from the area pose with two Sweet CTampton, Ted Vaden, °69;G ae ee fapl arene Prieta

Briar freshmen at the Cherry home in South Orange. Tucker, 69; Corky Mauzy, ’86, Charlie King, ’85; Courtney Mauzy, 61; Jim
Kerr, '86; and Watson Barnes, ’86.

oe

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—At summer party for freshmen are Bob McCullough, CUMBERLAND VALLEY—There for the banquet and business meeting are
S8L; Clay Jackson, ’76; and Rob McCullough, ’86. David Poole, a parent; O. Thomas Kaylor Jr., ’45; and Sam Strite, ’29.

25

 

 

 

 

tatesman who married a native of Staunton, was
| amember of the original board of trustees of Liberty

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 7

 

 

1943

Dr. CHARLES J. DEVINE JR., a renowned urologist in
Norfolk, Va., and a team of 26 surgeons at Eastern
Virginia Medical School, have performed a major
breakthrough in plastic surgery, becoming the first to
create genitals with erotic sensibility. A seventh-
grade Argentine boy, financed by the Argentine
government, was flown to Norfolk for the 16-hour
surgery. Dr. Paul Walker, the founder of the interna-
tional scientific body which monitors progress in
genital reconstruction commented, ‘‘Certainly, to my
knowledge, this is a first.’’

1945

ROBERT H. BERTINI, a manufacturer’s representative
in Greensboro, N.C., has been elected governor-
elect of the North Carolina District East of Civitan
International. He will take office August 1983.

1948

DONALD F. Murray, a former reporter and news
director with WDBJ Radio and Television in Roa-
noke, Va., has recently become manager of public
relations for Christian Children’s Fund Inc. of Rich-
mond, Va. Murray who has been news secretary and
media aide in several gubernatorial campaigns in
Virginia, has most recently been a freelance writer
and broadcaster. During World War II Murray served
with the U.S. Air Force as a gunner ona B-29. He isa
past president of the Virginia Associated Press
Broadcasters and a current member of the Sigma
Delta Chi professional society. Murray is also an
amateur radio operator, stage and television actor and
recently appeared in the CBN television series ‘‘An-
other Life.’’

1949

Dr. D. EARL BROWN JR., a Veterans Administration
physician with extensive administrative experience
and a specialty in neuropsychiatry, has been named
associate deputy chief medical director, the third
ranking position in the agency’s Department of Medi-
cine and Surgery. Brown will exercise day-to-day
line authority over the 172 medical centers, 226 out-
patient clinics and other facilities that make up the
department’s health care system. He joined the
Veterans Administration in 1980 after a distinguished
career in military medicine. In a 27-year career in the
Navy Medical Corps, from which he retired with the
rank of rear admiral, Brown served as commanding
officer of both the prestigious National Naval Medical
Center in Bethesda, Md., and the Naval Regional
Medical Center in San Diego, Calif. Brown is a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, the
American College of Physicians and the American
College of Psychiatrists.

1950

HaALcotTt G. HEYWARD III has been elected a vice
president for brokerage claims with the London
Agency Inc., an Atlanta-based managing general
agency specializing in excess surplus lines. Heyward

 

D. F. Murray, ’48

joined the company as manager of property losses in
1967 and was promoted to assistant vice president in
1980. He began his insurance career in 1950. Heyward
has served as vice president of the Southern Loss
Association and has been active in the Atlanta Claims
Association. He is a charter member of the Palmetto

    

ib: te
s@

H. G. Heyward III, ’50

  

Pond Chapter of Blue Goose International and has
completed various professional and _ insurance
courses.

FRANCIS A. MurRAY JR., president of Alden Inc., a
real estate firm in Bethesda, Md., has been awarded a

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Arkansas—Lee S. Thalheimer, ’73, #1 Capitol Mall, 4B-206, Little
Rock, Ark. 72201 |

Atlanta—Charles R. Yates Jr., ’70, 287 Springdale Dr., N.E.,
Atlanta, Ga. 30305

Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—William P. Englehart, ’73, 204 W. Pennsylvania Ave.,
Towson, Md. 21204

Birmingham—William S. Pritchard, ’75, Pritchard, McCall, Jones,
Spencer & O’Kelley, 901 Brown-Marx Bldg., 2000 First Ave. North,
Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—Homer D. Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., °57, Sun First Natl. Bank of
Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74L, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, S.C.—Dr. Richard S. McCain, ’74, 86% Church Street,
Charleston, S.C. 29401

Charleston, W.Va.—Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75, c/o United States
District Court, P.O. Box 2546, Charleston, W.Va. 25329
Charlotte—Luther H. Dudley II, ’°76, 1995 Ferncliff Rd., Charlotte,
N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Allen C. Brown, 72, Brown Associates, 2100 Broad
St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37408

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton III, ’62, °65L, One First Natl. Plaza,
Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60603

Cincinnati—Otis R. Hess, Jr. , 61, Great American Surplus Lines Ins.
Co., 10495 Montgomery Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, °56, Prescott/Landseair Inc., 623
Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44114

Cumberland Valley—James H. Clapp, ’73, P.O. Box 545, Frederick,
Md. 21701

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., °61, P.O. Box 344108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 123 King William St.,
Newark, Del. 19711

DelMarVa—Alex P. Rasin III, ’65, Rasin & Rasin, Box 228,
Chestertown, Md. 21620

Detroit—John F. Mozena, °67, 274 Lewiston Rd., Grosse Pointe
Farms, Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, °73L, 113 Clay Avenue,
Lexington, Ky. 40502

Eastern North Carolina—Gregory B. Crampton, °69, P.O. Box
2387, Raleigh, N.C. 27602

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, °73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Tom L. Larimore, 59, The Western Co. of North
America, P.O. Box 186, Fort Worth, Texas 76101

Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. B. Ogilvie Jr., 64, 11847 Memorial Dr., Houston,
Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Martin E. Stein, Jr., 3732 Pine Street, Jacksonville,
Fla. 32205

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ’°71, U.S. Engineering Co., 3433
Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., °41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., °70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—J. Leyburn Mosby Jr., °62,
Lynchburg, Va. 24505

Mid-South—Fred M. Ridolphi Jr., °64, 4735 Normandy Rd.,
Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Middle Tennessee—Richard F. Cummins, ’59, 1225 Chickering Rd.,
Nashville, Tenn. 37215

“OSL, P.O. Box 584,

Mobile-McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, °64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—aAlan D. Frazer, ’°72, 23 Bacon St., Bedford, Mass.
01730

New Orleans—John R. Sarpy, ’°72, 455 Walnut St., New Orleans, La.
70118

New York—Paul W. Perkins, ’74, The Chase Manhattan Bank, 101
Park Ave., 16th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10081

Northern New Jersey—Russell L. Hewit, ’74, °77L, Dughi & Hewit,
P.O. Box 516, Westfield, N.J. 07091

Northwest Louisiana—G. Archer Frierson II, ’°73, Route |, Box 236,
Shreveport, La. 71115

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, °66, 625 N.W. 13th St.,
Oklahoma City, Okla. 73103

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, ’63, 129 Le Hane
Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—Joseph Walker II, ’76, c/o Joseph Walker Co., P.O. Box
11359, Columbia, S.C. 29211

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, °52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—W. Christopher Hart, °68, Clark, Partington, Hart & Hart,
P.O. Drawer 12585, Pensacola, Fla. 32501

Philadelphia—Bruce C. Lee, ’71, Bolger & Picker, 860 Suburban
Station Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 19103

Phoenix—Walter E. Hunter, ’50, 6349 N. 78th St., #143, Scottsdale,
Ariz. 85253

Piedmont—John A. Cocklereece Jr., °76, °79L, Womble Carlyle
Sandridge & Rice, Wachovia Bldg., Suite 2400, Winston-Salem, N.C.
27102

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, °56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—J. Lee Keiger III, °76, Davenport & Co. of Virginia Inc.,
P.O. Box !377, Richmond, Va. 23211

Roanoke—James W. Jennings Jr., °65, °72L, 2710 Rosalind Ave.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, "59, Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450
St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., °66, First National Bank of
St. Louis, P.O. Box 267, St. Louis, Mo. 63166

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, °71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205

San Diego—John D. Klinedinst, ’71, °78L, Whitney & Klinedinst,
1241 State St., San Diego, Calif. 92101

San Francisco Bay—W. Nat Baker, °67, 2737 Polk St., Apt. #5, San
Francisco, Calif. 94109

Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, 73, The Equitable Life Assurance
Society of U.S., 137 W. Boscawen, Winchester, Va. 22601

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ‘74, P.O. Box
695, Greenville, S.C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, °53, Box 102, Yorba
Linda, Calif. 92686

Southside Virginia—Robert T. Vaughan, *79L, Meade, Tate &
Daniel, P.O. Box 720, Danville, Va. 24541

Tidewater—Howard W. Martin, °64, 1335 Armistead Bridge Rd.,
Norfolk, Va. 23507

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, °69L, Campbell Woods Bagley
Emerson McNeer & Herndon, P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, W. Va.
25701

Tucson—F. Pendleton Gaines Jr., °39, 3919 E. Cooper St., Tucson,
Ariz. 85711

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, °78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla. 74104
Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, °43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Thomas L. Howard, 68, Colton & Boykin, 1133 15th
St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005

Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith Jr., "53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, °62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abilene,
Texas 79605

Wisconsin—David R. Braun, 76, The Travelers-LHFS, 10400 W.
North Ave., Milwaukee, Wisc. 53226

 

27

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

burg. Price is married to the former Betty Barker of
Richmond and the couple have a son and a daughter.

STANLEY A. WALTON III (See 1962.)

1966

W. Court SOLOFF has been appointed corporate
security director of GTE in Stamford, Conn. He was
promoted to the position from security director of
General Telephone Co. of the Southwest. He joined
GTE in 1970 after serving as a special agent with the
FBI. Soloff and his wife, Diane, live in Trumbull,
Conn., with their five children.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN R. MCGILL, a son,
Timothy Michael, on May 29, 1982, in Hampden,
Maine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. WICKER JR., a
daughter, Lucie Knight, on July 27, 1982, in Jamaica
Plain, Mass.

JAMES C. TREADWAY JR., a partner in the Washing-
ton, D.C., law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin,
was nominated by President Reagan and confirmed
by the U.S. Senate to be a member of the Securities
and Exchange Commission. His term expires June
1987.

JEFFREY T. TWARDY has formed the new law partner-
ship of Mains, Nichols and Twardy with offices in
Annandale and Alexandria, Va.

1968

JOSEPH W. BRowN, an attorney with Jones, Jones,
Bell, Labaron, Close & Brown in Las Vegas, Nev.,
has received a presidential appointment and con-
firmation by the Senate as a member of the Foreign
Claims Settlement Commission.

HaL F. HIGGINBOTHAM, a nationally-recognized
leader in developing financial aid data processing
systems, has been named the new executive director
of the College Board’s College Scholarship Service.
In his new position, Higginbotham will be responsible
for the day-to-day management of operations, mar-
keting, training and publications for all CSS programs
and services. He joined the College Board after five
years at New York University where he was director
of financial aid. From 1972-77 he worked at George-
town University where he was assistant director of
financial aid. After graduating from Washington and
Lee University Higginbotham was named a Wood-
row Wilson Fellow while he was a Ph.D. candidate at
Brown University. He became an exchange Fellow at
Christian-Albrects-Universitate in Kiel, Germany.

1969

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. THomas M. NEWMAN, a
daughter, Elizabeth Lillian, on Aug. 13, 1982, in
Houston. Newman is a neurologist there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN B. VADEN Jr., a

 

M. E. Skoggard, °72

daughter, Brandon Rogers, on July 6, 1982, in Ra-
leigh, N.C. Vaden is senior assistant city editor for
The News and Observer.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. CLARKE JONES III, a
daughter, Barbara Blaire, on Aug. 17, 1981, in Rich-
mond. Jones is vice president of Jones Realty and
Construction Corp.

J. DONALD CHILDRESS, southeastern regional partner
for the huge Dallas-based Trammell Crow Co., is
currently engaged in one of the largest projects un-
dertaken in Atlanta, Ga. The project is called the
Galleria Complex and is at the junction of Interstate
75 and the perimeter. It is a high-density complex
which will eventually consist of three 20-story office
buildings, a luxury hotel, and a plush shopping ar-
cade. Childress, a native of Atlanta, graduated from
the University of Texas with his master’s in business
administration. He has been with Trammell Crow for
11 years.

EDWARD W. (NED) CosLett III-has been elected
president of the Home Builders Association of Chester
and Delaware Counties which is headquartered in
Media, Pa. Coslett had served as treasurer of the
association.

S. STACY EASTLAND became a partner in the Houston
law firm of Baker and Botts on Jan. 1, 1982. His
specialty is tax and estate planning.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davib C. DALE, a daughter,
Lesley Anne, on May 22, 1982, in Lake Wales, Fla.
Dale is a defense attorney.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert D. LARUE, a daugh-
ter, Lauren Lee, on Jan. 18, 1982. The young lady
joins an older brother and the family lives in Houston.

MARK W. GROBMYER has become a partner in the
Little Rock law firm of Davidson, Horne, Hollings-
worth, Arnold and Grobmyer. He has served as
special justice on the Arkansas Supreme Court,
chairman of Arkansas Merit Board of the Civil Serv-
ice, special chairman of the Arkansas State Claims
Commission, Arkansas liaison with the American
Bar Association and with the State and Federal Se-
curities Law Committee.

WILLIAM J. Monica, areal estate broker in Roanoke,
Va., is president of the Virginia Solar Energy
Association. Modica made the opening address at the
association’s conference which was held on Sept. 25
in Charlottesville.

Mark E. SKOGGARD has been promoted to planning
manager-market analysis in the business planning
and development department of R. J. Reynolds In-
dustries Inc. in Winston-Salem, N.C. In his new
position Skoggard is responsible for analyzing the

market potential of business opportunities. He pre-
viously was manager-project control services in the
financial and project service unit of R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co. Skoggard holds a master’s degree in
business administration from Wake Forest University.
He joined R. J. Reynolds Industries in 1980.

RICHARD J. SPLitTorF has been named western region
advertising director for Bon Appetit magazine. He
had been Los Angeles manager for Architectural
Digest, which is published by Knapp Communication
Corporation, the same company which publishes Bon
Appetit. Prior to joining Architectural Digest in 1978,
Splittorf was an advertising sales representative for
the Union-Tribune Publishing Co. of San Diego.
Before that he was with Copley Newspapers and
Media General Inc. of Richmond. He lives in Playa
del Rey, Calif.

E. BRUCE WILSIE JR. has been named a vice president
of W. Bolling Izard Inc., a Roanoke bonding and
insurance firm.

1973
MARRIAGE: DouG tas A. ForsyTH and Catherine
N. Wallace on June 5, 1982, in St. Louis. He is a
senior trial lawyer for the circuit attorney’s office in
St. Louis.

DONALD D. EAVENSON Jr. has been promoted to
product director for children’s Tylenol brand for the
McNeil Consumer Products Co., a wholly owned
subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. In this position,
Eavenson will be responsible for developing and
managing all marketing programs supporting this
rapidly growing business. Eavenson has been with
McNeil since June 1980, after earning his M.B.A. in
marketing from the Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania. He and his wife, Susan, reside in
Glenside, Pa.

RAYBURN R. HAMMOND has been promoted to vice
president-marketing for Southern Welding Supply
Co. in Bowling Green, Ky.

CONWAY HUNTER, after receiving a master’s degree
in fine arts from the University of Georgia’s Theater
Department, took a position with Long Wharf Theater
of New Haven, Conn. While connected with Long
Wharf, he was appointed technical director for their
national touring company which took him to 71 cities
in 35 states. Hunter is now on the faculty at Newcomb
College at Tulane serving as instructor and technical
director. He is married to the former Joanna Risser of
Eldorado, Ark.

Dr. ROBERT L. MUNT JR. is in the private practice of
pediatrics in Raleigh, N.C.

Gary W. POLIAKOFF was recently elected chairman
of the Spartanburg County Democratic Party and
appointed campaign co-chairman for the re-election
of Governor Riley. He is a partner in the law firm of
Swofford, Poliakoff and Spears in Spartanburg, S.C..,
and is editor and co-author of the publication, En-
vironmental Law in South Carolina.

29

  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

to the department of political s¢ science of f Emory Uni Gardner, panbsan & Douglas in Chicago. Jeff Harris is
versity i in nid Ga. with the law firm of Foran, Wiss and

 

  
  
     
 
    

Davip R. ‘Lee is F systems manager “for Continental ee
Cablevision of Richmond, Va. M. DanieL BE

| | tae 7 exercise Pe
His master’ s degi

 

BIRTH: Mr. ‘and Mrs. RANDALL W. 2 ATKINS, ,ason,
Drew Whittaker, on Feb. 5, ‘1981, in West Palm
Beach, Fla. |

record store to enter the Colgate Darden Graduate
School of Business de nisization at the University
of Virginia.

JouN Cc. “MARTIN has ‘taken the position as chief
| cer of american West Management Co.,

ns was Prormerly a supervisor at
id in Tulsa, Okla,

 

* alte sing par nl Herbert G. Smith, °80, °831
and Dewey L. Stinson MIL, 79. They: live in Newport
here Jc

 
 

ter, Elizabeth Christenia,
noke, oe 7 . |

 

 

 

ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CORRECTION

A class note in the September 1982 issue of this
magazine reporting the marriage of Michael C. Mc-
Comas, °79, to Peggy Pine was completely false,
the result of a hoax perpetrated on the editors by a
person or persons unknown. The editors regret the
error and apologize to Mr. McComas and Miss Pine.

 

 

 

fessor of accounting in the Samuel J. Silberman Col-
lege of Business Administration on the Florham-
Madison Campus of Fairleigh Dickinson University.
He is also a consultant to the Paramus, N.J., firm of
Stern, Steiger, Croland and Burnstein. Falk earned
an M.S. degree at the University of Virginia and an
LL.M. in taxation from the New York School of
Law. He is a member of the bar in New Jersey and
Virginia, and he is a CPA in Virginia. While in law
school, he was an accounting professor at VMI and
taught accounting and real estate at Dabney S. Lan-
caster Community College. Falk has published
articles recently in the New Jersey Lawyer and the
New York state CPA Journal.

STUART M. JONES, formerly a superintendent for Edd
K. Roberts and Co., a general contractor and de-
veloper in Raleigh, N.C., has formed his own com-
pany, Stuart Construction Co. The newly formed
company will act as a general contractor for repair,
remodeling and reconstruction of existing commercial
and residential structures.

JOHN C. TOMPKINS is in dealer sales with Reynolds

Metals Co., Energy Products Division. He resides in -

Charlotte and his territory with Reynolds includes
North and South Carolina.

PETER H. Goss (See 1982.)

1980
MARRIAGE: MicuHaE- R. DEVINE and Hilari Ham-
ner on Aug. |, 1982, in Hampton, Va. After teaching
at Norfolk Academy for two years, Devine is now
property manager with the Norfolk real estate firm of
S. L. Nusbaum & Co.

ABNER S. BOXLEY III is currently in Charlottesville,
Va., where he has completed his first year at the
Colgate Darden School of Business Administration
of the University of Virginia.

THoMa~S E. Goss Jr., formerly a broker with Shear-
son/American Express Co. in Cleveland, is now with
the banking and brokerage firm of McDonald & Co.,
also of Cleveland.

Tuomas A. Lisk has given up his position as a lobby-
ist for the National Rifle Association to enter law
school at Washington and Lee. He is also a legislative
aide to Delegate Vic Thomas in the Virginia General
Assembly.

Scott E. Situ is in his third year of studies for a
Ph.D. in clinical psychology at McGill University in
Montreal. He has won two separate McGill University
research awards and recently received the Harold
Helurs Fellowship Award. In June 1982, Smith
presented a paper at the International Symposium on
Stress and Alcohol held at Rutgers University. The
paper is scheduled for publication. He has also sub-
mitted a paper for publication to the Journal of Studies
on Alcohol.

1981

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Gary L. CRUZE (DEBORAH

HUGHES CRUZE) a daughter, Melissa Anne, on July
26, 1982. Deborah is an assistant attorney general in
the criminal division of the Arizona Attorney Gen-
eral’s Office. Gary is a personnel development
specialist with the Sperry Flight Systems. The family
lives in Glendale, Ariz.

BENNETT N. EASTON left Houston City Bank to joina
sailboat crew in the Caribbean. He helped return the
boat to the United States and is job hunting again.

1982
MARRIAGE: Tony M. Jones and Karen S. Thomas
on June 26, 1982, in Alexandria, Va. W&L alumni
present were classmates Jay Brackin, Michael Harner
and Dan Weiss. They are living in Hong Kong where
Mrs. Jones teaches political science at Chung Chi
University.

MARRIAGE: W. IAN LairD and Mary Louise Vis-
cardi on Aug. 28, 1982, in Manhasset, N.Y. Laird is
an associate with the New York law firm of Cad-
walader, Wickersham and Taft.

MARRIAGE: F. BRADLEY SCHOLTZ and Julia Anne
Shull on July 3, 1982, in Darien, Conn. Scholtz is

with the trust department of the Chase Manhattan
Bank in New York City.

T. STANLEY BARNES JR. is a management trainee
with the First National Bank and Trust Co. in Au-
gusta, Ga.

ALLEN GAHAN has joined K-Mart Corp. as an assist-
ant manager trainee in Dothan, Ala. He expects to
complete his degree at the University of Alabama in
Huntsville during the fall semester.

PETER H. Goss, former director of Visitor Relations
in Lexington, Va., is currently in Key West, Fla.,
and employed by Key West Aloe Inc. as marketing
director. He will have responsibility of opening new
wholesale accounts.

STEWART A. HINCKLEY is with the communications
department of the Hyatt Crystal City in Arlington,
Va.

Eric T. Myers is a first-year student at the College of
William and Mary’s Marshall-Wythe School of Law.

DANIEL L. WEISS is a management trainee in the
international department for National Bank of Wash-
ington. He lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

 

In Memoriam

 

1918

WALTER HILLMAN RILEY, a former civil engineer
with the North Carolina Department of Conservation
and Development, died Jan. 29, 1982, in Wilkesboro.

1920

EMILE B. BEATTY, a former circuit judge and leader
in Masonic organizations, died July 27, 1982, in
Beattyville, Ky. Beatty served as circuit court judge
for Lee and other counties in the area from 1946 to
1951 and from 1958 to 1963. He had served as a
member of the Beattyville City Council and as a
member of the Lee County Board of Education. A
33rd-degree Mason, he was a senior past grand master
of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky Free and Accepted
Masons. Beatty was a past supreme watchman of the
Shepherds of the White Shrine. He had also been
chairman and secretary of the Lee County chapter of
the American Red Cross for many years. In 1963 he
was named outstanding citizen by the Beattyville
Kiwanis Club.

JOSEPH CALDWELL Hopson, who practiced law
throughout Eastern Kentucky for more than 50 years
and who served several terms as Prestonsburg’s city
attorney, died July 13, 1982. His specialty was civil
law. Hobson moved to Prestonsburg in 1927. The last
term he served as city attorney was from 1973 to
1977. A 32nd-degree Mason, Hobson was a member
of Zebulon Lodge No. 273 F&AM, the Grand Lodge
of Kentucky and the Scottish Rite. He was a member

of the Prestonsburg American Legion Post 129. He
served in the Navy during World War I.

F922

Louis SIMON JOEL, a long-time resident of Jackson-
ville, Fla., anda former U.S. Attorney for the state of
Florida, died Aug. 13, 1982. Following graduation
from W&L, Joel became Assistant United States
Attorney for the state of Florida during the Prohibition
era. He then entered private practice of law in Jack-
sonville until his retirement. During World War II
Joel was active in legal aid for refugees and civil
defense.

1925

CLARENCE WHITFIELD KEMPER, a Salesman of
jewelry with Herff-Jones Co. for many years, died
Aug. 20, 1982, in Clinton, Mo. At one time, Kemper
was the assessor for the Clinton Township. He was an
honorary colonel on the staff of four governors of the
state of Missouri.

1927

ABRAM HILL CROWELL, a retired executive with Gulf
Oil Co. with over 45 years of service, died at his
home in Southern Pines, N.C., on Feb. 25, 1982.
Crowell had been in the petroleum business for many
years and saw assignments in South America and in
much of the United States. He was primarily involved

31

 

 

     
  
   

v

of CHARLES AV
as of Carabrids

  
   
   
 
      
   
 
 
 
 

of Sout

    

 

   
 
  
 

 
 
   

>

 

us

Sk dion Soy

just

 

 

recently
California

 

  

Permanente

 

    

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

    

   

 

in taxation.

 

 

 

 

ns and was a

      

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MARK THE DATES NOW

 

ANNIVERSARY CLASS REUNIONS
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

MAY 12, 13, and 14, 1983

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes of
1933, 1938, 1943, 1948, 1953, 1958,
1963, 1968, 1973, 1978

Plan Now To Attend

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

TEL

RAL

BALF OUR

RI)

T

Ny

Dé

 

MR

 

037556

Sanne

<
2

sae
snag
oo

ST
{

¢
z

Mt)

CH
229

If
5

ell
R
e

