- the alumni magazine of washington and lee university Ae
eae OCTOBER 1984

 

 

 

   

   

   

UA

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 59, Number 5, September 1984

Frank A. Parsons, ’54................. aie OER es Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G,, Hanna . 6b 6c. cece ce uue Associate Editor
Motert Pure oo. cis ccc acees Contributing Editor
Pe PIAL 5 so Be Boke ae aN Editorial Assistant
A®leome Thomas .. 66.663. ce ec ccaes Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, "73.2.4 65... oo a Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Gentlemen and Professional Ethics.....................c000. ]
A. NOvet Appr oo... Vaiss vekninle akon 7
Front ‘Five PCR iis vescs. 0s onngacneds caeacs covmebee ae 11
Turning Bagi fe SAC iis cicada Agee 13
A. Super: “Seper. emt. 6335.6. oossecd casa daeadaaneaeeeanees 18
WEL. Caren ais iiiass be dncevedoauumentence enn eae 21
Chapter Newes cccivin nds cad inno é Se be 31
Clams’ NORGE. 555 oo) 0B ass ccicaen sve bapa melee oo bs uuiee nnn 33
Im MeMorigit .icccs sco. si coescds cic cs peaemiebens Uaes ancl eeenn 40
And |fQrtMermore. ..5...55.scvecssdespabenunieces casa tanieennnne 42
Show Your Colors!, :... sci. 4.0c.caceasnepanees aera 45

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through
the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Change in frequency pending.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
President

JAMES W. McCLinTockx III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York, N-Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. NAT BAKER, 67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, 44, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F. CARRERE JR., 69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTs, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., 69, Dallas, Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., 65, ’772L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
HENRY NorTserc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyNoR, 62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rick M. TiLLey JR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: The drawing from the English magazine
Vanity Fair is one of a series of gentlemen of the era. Is the
gentleman returning to professional ethics? W&L law pro-
fessor Thomas L. Shaffer examines that issue in a thought-
provoking piece in this issue. Other drawings from Vanity
Fair accompany Shaffer’s article.

 

 

 

 

by Thomas L. Shaffer

Professor of Law

The Return of the Gentleman

To
Professional Ethics

I have two claims to make with regard to the gentleman’s
ethic, neither of which is an endorsement of it. First, I claim that
there is a renewed interest in the gentleman as an ethical model,
both in general and in the modern professions of medicine and
law. And, second, I claim that the gentleman’s ethic is substantial
enough to be interesting in the study of ethics in the university.
My main burden here is to attempt to explicate the second of
these claims by subjecting the gentleman’s ethic to a bit of
description and some intuitive tests of its adequacy.

I begin on December 7, 1983, the 42nd anniversary of the
Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. That evening, Dr. Mark Craig
of St. Eligius’ Hospital in Boston, declined an illicit proposal put
to him by Dr. Kathy Martin. Dr. Craig did so with evidence of
effort. He referred to the younger doctor as ‘‘that whacko from
pathology.’’ But he acted decisively. And Dr. Martin returned to
her laboratory in the morgue.

Dr. Craig acted with clarity. He spoke to Dr. Martin about
professionalism. He reported the proposal to Mrs. Craig, to
whom he spoke not professionally but personally. Mrs. Craig
then visited Dr. Martin’s laboratory and persuaded Dr. Martin
that promiscuous freedom with younger doctors was better for
her than life with Dr. Craig would have been.

The significance of this story for professional ethics is that
Dr. Craig is a gentleman; his conduct makes an ethical claim on
his fellow physicians: They should be gentlemen, too. Dr. Craig’s
behavior is in steady contrast to the behavior of the resident
physicians at St. Eligius and their partners. The residents are
competent and compassionate, but they tend to casual sex in the
basement, to the abuse of controlled drugs, to unseemly rebellion
against the establishment. They swear a lot. They break the fur-
niture when they’re angry. Dr. Craig says that what they do
“‘smacks of the unethical.’’ What he means is that if these young
doctors cannot be gentlemen they should get out of the
profession.

Dr. Craig is in this respect the medical analogue to Lawrence
Preston, lawyer-gentleman of the 1960’s television series The
Defenders and of Atticus Finch, lawyer-hero of the civil-rights-
era novel and movie To Kill a Mockingbird. When I refer here to
gentlemen, please remember to think of Dr. Craig and Mrs.
Craig, of Lawrence Preston and of Atticus Finch.

 

Originally presented as The Willis Cunningham Memorial Lecture at
Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada, Professor Shaffer’s
lecture is part of a larger work scheduled for publication in the Queen’s
University Law Journal.

 

   

i
58
1

Television would make my empirical point well enough, but in
a university I suppose I should also mention evidence that comes
with footnotes:

Item: Shirley Letwin’s recent study of gentlemen in the novels
of Anthony Trollope argues that the ethics of the English
gentleman transcend wealth and class. Hers is an argument for
the return of the gentleman to ethics in general. She also claims
the gentleman’s ethic for the professions, when she says, ‘‘The
mark of a gentlemanis. . . an ability to work conscientiously
without losing himself.’’ Letwin’s choice of the prototypical
Trollopian gentleman was Madame Max Goessler, later Mrs.
Phineas Finn, of the Palliser novels.

Item: Grant Tinder’s recent study of the virtue of tolerance is
about how gentlemen /earn. He argues as a political scientist; his
claim is that civility in communal life turns on a truthful percep-

Return of the Gentleman

tion of human personality, rather than on the ‘‘marketplace of
ideas.’’ Tinder wants to resituate tolerance as the virtue that
makes communities possible. Tinder finds the notion of virtue
more interesting than the prevailing civics of autonomy and ob-
jectivity. He argues that Kantian theories of the isolated but
fungible individual are not useful—that they are dishonest.

Item: Alasdair MacIntyre’s influential book, After Virtue.
MacIntyre would restore to ethics the study of the virtues. The
virtues are the moral qualities of the gentleman. Aristotle found
them in the Athenian man of practical wisdom. Theodore
Roosevelt’s generation of urban North Americans found them in
Lord Baden-Powell: a Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful,
friendly courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave,
clean, and reverent. Those are virtues; the Scout Law is a morali-
ty of virtues. Lord Baden-Powell, like Aristotle’s man of prac-
tical wisdom, was a gentleman.

Item: A formidable school of moral theology has been
developing since the 1930s, among Protestants, Jews, and Roman
Catholics, that argues for the study of character as the fundamen-
tal category for defining the Jewish and Christian way of life. (If
you read such literature you will recognize the names Fletcher,
Hauerwas, McClendon, Goldberg, Churchill, Childress, and
May.) In legal ethics—my field—there are now several scholars
who find Lawrence Preston and Atticus Finch more interesting
than the deliberations of the American Bar Association or the
Law Society of Upper Canada.

Character as a focus for ethics turns on personal qualities or
dispositions; on what medieval writers translated as good habits;

 

on what some modern students of character would call skills.
These are words for virtue. Character turns on virtues more than
on rules and principles. The gentleman’s concern for character is
an ethic of virtues.

Justice, for example: The gentleman speaks of justice as
Tinder speaks of tolerance. Justice is not something people get
from lawyers or from the government, but something people
learn how to give to one another. Dr. Craig understands and
practices justice in this way—as a virtue. He made a little speech
as he completed his first heart-transplant operation last
November: He spoke, in the operating room, not of his skill, nor
of the hospital’s technology, nor of the patient’s prognosis, but
of the generosity of the young woman who donated her heart for
transplant. He praised her for her practice of the virtue of justice.
He then withdrew, alone and satisfied with himself, to a private
office, and refused to talk to the press. The lesson he wanted to
teach about justice was a lesson for his professional colleagues,
not for reporters.

My claim is that Dr. Craig’s moral position is interesting. I
want to describe it a bit, then to ask four questions about it—only
two of which I will discuss in detail.

The first question is whether his ethic will survive delusions of
class and professionalism.

The second question is whether it provides the skills we pro-
fessionals need for dealing with power in institutions. My answer
is that it does, principally because it preserves in the gentleman a
sense of his complicity in the evil that institutions do; and it
thereby makes it possible for him to repent of his evil and to in-
vite his community to repent for its evil.

The third question is whether the gentleman’s ethic takes into
account the tragic nature of the moral life. Does it have a way to
choose between two valid but inconsistent moral commands? My
answer is that it does.

The fourth question is whether the gentleman’s ethic gives
adequate consideration to the moral significance of suffering. My
answer is that it does not.

A Description of the Gentleman’s Ethic

The primary way we know gentlemen is that we just do.
Robert E. Lee was a gentleman. Chief Justice Borah Laskin is a
gentleman. Prime Minister McKenzie King was a gentleman.
Trollope’s Dr. Thorne was a gentleman. Eleanor Roosevelt was a
gentleman. So were Senator Henry Jackson and Chief Justice
Earl Warren, and, of course, Madame Max Goessler.

This slide-projector method of describing the gentleman is ac-
curate. But it succeeds only because we know before we start
what a gentleman is. I once asked my students in legal ethics how
a gentleman knows what is the right thing to do; one of the best
answers was that a gentleman knows that what he will do is the
right thing to do.

There are alternatives to slide-projector definitions. One of
them is to describe the gentleman teleologically. That is, life is a
journey. I know where I began the journey, and I know where |
want it to end. A virtue is what helps me along the way; a vice is
what sets me back.

That—the end or telos of the enterprise—might be said to be

 

the good life itself. C. P. Snow wrote about such a telos. His best
characters show that the hardest job, and the job they most want
to do well, is to become good people. Many of them sacrifice pro-
fessional success in that journey toward goodness, and many
choose poorly because their vices keep them from seeing the road
ahead.

A third way to describe the gentleman’s life is to catalogue the
qualities we admire in gentlemen. That’s what Letwin does in her
brief for the gentlemen in Trollope’s novels. We start with the
understanding that some people are gentlemen and some are not,
and we then try to notice the characteristics of those we identify
as gentlemen. This was Aristotle’s procedure.

For one thing, Letwin says, the gentleman is civi/. He hates to
inflict pain. Trollope’s Dr. Thorne was discharged as physician
for the children of Squire Gresham and his wife Lady Arabella
because he was not a fashionable doctor. He was called in again
when two children died at the hands of Thorne’s fashionable
rival, Dr. Fillgrave. Lady Arabella asked Dr. Thorne to come
back and ‘‘humbled herself, or would have done so, had the doc-
tor permitted her. But he, with his eyes full of tears, stopped the
utterance of her apology, took her two hands in his, pressed them
warmly, and assured her [of] his joy inreturning... ”’

The gentleman is self-possessed. Letwin says his sexual morals
are the result of his keeping his thoughts straight, and Dr. Craig
would agree.

The gentleman is steady in leadership. Leadership—and every
form of power—is, to him, not a matter of merit but a matter of
circumstance. This is not noblesse oblige, which regards power as
appropriate and seeks to justify having it. The gentleman’s no-
tion is that power is a form of service.

The center of the gentleman’s social morality is a response to
what happens—not a reaction, but a response. He is able to re-
spond; he believes, as Letwin says it, that ‘‘a human being leads
himself to do everything he does.’’

The gentleman is discriminating. Much of Madame Goessler’s
success as a gentleman was the exercise of a remarkable and in-
telligent imagination in this respect—that and a meticulous
respect for personality. Lewis Thomas’ father, an old-fashioned
family doctor, showed how this works when he parked his car
around the corner from the house of his Christian-Scientist
patient.
| The gentleman is also diffident. He is firm in his morals but
not without doubt about them. Letwin says he has ‘‘the capacity
to take a firm stand while recognizing that the rightness of doing
so is questionable.’’ Lewis Thomas notices that the word
‘‘medicine’’ and the word ‘‘modest’’ come from the same root.
Letwin alludes to Kant’s famous example of the murderer who
pursues his victim and asks the bystander which way the victim
went. The bystander, if he is a gentleman, ‘‘will lie to a murderer
in order to save his friend, [but] his honesty will keep him from
pretending. . . he has not lied.”’

 

Will the Gentleman’s Ethic Survive the Delusions
of Class and of Professionalism?

The 19th-century gentleman in North America gave us
slavery, Manifest Destiny, the theft of half of Mexico, the sub-

 

 

jugation of women, the exploitation of immigrant children,
Pinkerton detectives, yellow-dog contracts, and the implacable
genocide of American Indians. You could make a case that the
gentleman is not worth saving. If he has left the professions, the
best thing for us would be to bar the door lest he get back in. The
gentleman’s ethic is either inherently useless or it has been cor-
rupted. At best, gentlemen have deceived themselves, often and
thoroughly.

But all admirable moralities are neglected and corrupted. In
the curious dynamics of self-deception, the nobler the morality
the more likely it will be corrupted. Still, there is a difference bet-
ween a corrupt morality and a corrupted morality. There is a dif-
ference between the racism of Hitler and the racism of Rudyard
Kipling. It may be that the gentleman’s morality, a thing as old as
Aristotle’s Nichomachean Ethics, can be cleaned up and put to
use in modern professions. The issue, then, would be whether it
can survive our tendency to lord it over one another.

This is a stern test. No less a lover of gentleman than John
Henry Newman voted against the gentleman on this issue.
Newman admired all of the noble qualities of the gentleman, but
he concluded that those noble qualities were too fragile to be an
adequate morality; they were not adequate to the terrors of life.
The gentleman’s virtues, Newman said,

are no guarantee for sanctity or even for conscien-
tiousness . . . . Quarry the granite rock with razors, or
moor the vessel with a thread of silk; then may you hope
with such keen and delicate instruments to contend against
those giants, the passion and the pride of man.

I think we have to figure out whether Newman was right. Can the
gentleman’s ethic survive the passion and the pride of man?

lati imemmnn ct aiaininiiaa in imaiiaain iiit

 

Return of the Gentleman

It seems to me that this issue, today, is an issue about profes-
sionalism and not an issue about class. I don’t argue—nor would
Letwin or Tinder or MacIntyre—for the revival of the gentleman
class. What we have to worry about instead is professionalism,
about, if you like, the professional class.

Professions are the way we certify our superiority. Lionel
Trilling noticed this in C. P. Snow’s stories about scientists who
work for the government—‘‘men who, by their talents, have risen
from. . . the lower classes.’’ In their new professional world,
**differences of social origin are modified by the attitudes of the
scientific group.’’ That is, of the professional group. ‘‘Thus, all
the physicists, no matter what their social origin, are at one in
their alienation from the engineers, whom they regard as of a
lower social order.’’

A similar sorting out is familiar to all of us who observe the
hierarchies in medicine and law. It is also familiar in the distinc-
tion between professionals and their clients, where profes-
sionalism means superiority, disengagement (which we call objec-
tivity), and social processes in which we divide people up and
hand the parts over to experts. In contrast with this professional
arrogance, Lewis Thomas says that the essence of traditional
medicine is a ‘‘uniquely subtle, personal relationship’’ between
doctor and patient that ‘‘has roots that go back to the beginnings
of medicine’s history ... .’’ It takes, he says, ‘‘the best of doc-
tors, the best of friends.”’

The moral danger of professionalism is absolutely fundamen-
tal. The risk here is idolatry—seeing one’s job where one ought to
see God; acting as if success in an occupation were a moral com-
pass. This is the meaning I find in the fact that reports about the
Bar in Ontario say that young lawyers lose their sense of worth

 

when there are too many of them and their professional income
declines. Here is another example: In the late 1970s, the American
Bar Association Journal referred twice to what it called ‘‘the issue
of the decade.’’ Reflect for a moment about that decade in the
United States. It began with the bombing of Cambodia and ended
with hostages in Iran. It was filled with angry students, racial
strife, nuclear escalation, and inflation. It was a time of un-
paralleled expansion in the legal profession and in legal educa-
tion. What among all of that could qualify as the issue of the
decade? The American Bar Association said it was advertising by
lawyers! That is idolatry.

Letwin would say that this professional idolatry is inconsis-
tent with the gentleman’s ethic. It came about because we
neglected the gentleman, not because we followed him. The
gentlemen, in her view, tests occupation against selfhood, not
selfhood against occupation. There are, I think, four ways in
which this can be seen to be true—and in which the gentleman’s
ethic can be a way to topple the professional idol. These are tradi-
tion, craftsmanship, liberal education, and a new emphasis on the
feminine.

(a) Tradition. Ancestry and ownership have been important in
the gentleman’s ethic. But they have not been essential. Consider,
for example, Trollope’s characters: Dr. Thorne had ancestry but
not ownership; Phineas Finn, a lawyer and the son of an Irish
doctor, had neither. They were both gentlemen. Lizzie Eustace,
who had both ancestry and ownership, was not a gentleman;
Lord Chiltern, who had both, was. What kept Lizzie from being
a gentleman was not her origins but her behavior.

What, then, is the moral quality of the gentleman’s esteem for
the past? I claim that it is not breeding. It is moral tradition. The
gentleman does not regard himself as either an autonomous
moral agent or as a self-made person. He preserves and honors
the values of his culture. When he stands against his community,
his moral argument is the moral argument of Jesus against the
Pharisees, or of Isaiah against the temple priesthood: He accuses
the community of dishonoring its moral inheritance. That has
been the position of some Southern lawyers against racism in the
South. It is the argument of many in Israel against the current
excesses Of the political and military leadership there, as it was
Martin Buber’s argument a decade ago.

The gentleman recalls to the community its heritage; he insists
that those in institutions look at what they’re doing and not
behave as if events were too big or too complicated for them. I
am impressed, for example, by medicine’s recent discovery of
something Dr. Thorne of Lewis Thomas’ father took for
granted—the undissected patient. Maybe the undissected patient
is what Jung meant when he said, ‘‘Every illness is. . . an unsuc-
cessful attempt at healing.’’ This is not being old-fashioned. It is
a clear-headed consideration of what we have been—because that
is what we are.

The second way the gentleman avoids professional idolatry is
through craftsmanship. Alasdair MacIntyre fashions from
Aristotelian ethics a professional moral tradition he calls the
practice. The notion turns on a distinction between two kinds of
benefits we gain from the pursuit of our callings: One of these is

 

external; for example, money and the good regard of our
neighbors. The other is internal. Internal benefits relate to the joy
of doing what we do, of sharing that joy with our colleagues, and
of subjecting what we do to the standards of performance we in-
herit, preserve, and pass on in a profession. An example is what
in business is called a trade secret: Doctors and lawyers do not
have trade secrets. If one of us discovers something, or thinks he
has discovered something, he turns it over to the profession—for
use, for evaluation, and for improvement. When one of us fails
to do that, he is considered unprofessional.

Such professional traditions are what I mean by craftsman-
ship. When we behave with honesty and civility, the practice is a
way to the good life; it is a theatre for virtue; it honors our pro-
fessional ancestors and admits that we are indebted to them; it
reaches beyond professional fashion and fad and gives each of us
a place to learn who he is.

If we keep our metaphors straight, the practice is also a way to
avoid the delusions of professionalism. Craftsmanship, for exam-
ple, is not art; when we call it art, we withdraw it from evaluation
and use by our colleagues; we begin to think that what we do is
too special for them. Craftsmanship is not merely work, either.
We excise the mystery from what we do when we come to think of
it only as work, and of our doing it as only a job.

A third way to topple the professional idol is through liberal
education. We are solemn in our professional work—inevitably
so, | guess—but, as Karl Barth said, we are only children playing
before God. I think that’s why Lewis Thomas, and others in
medical education (such as Washington and Lee’s Professor Tom
Williams), use their influence against extensive premedical cur-
ricula; they want to claim for their profession the liberally
educated doctor. It is a way to save the profession from being too
solemn.

Liberal education helps us understand the relation between
the patient or client and the community. It is defensible, surely,
to provide in the community a professional function that does not
serve ‘‘the whole man.”’ But we can get away with that only when
our community takes responsibility for the whole man. It is
defensible for me to defend my client against a drunk-driving
charge if I am also alert to the fact that his alcoholism will not be
cured in traffic court, and if I am concerned for—responsible
for—his being more than either a drunkard or a client of mine.

When Dr. Craig’s heart-transplant patient died, he grieved for
her—not for his or the hospital’s want of skill, but for Eve, his
patient, who was dead. He shed a tear for his friend. He spoke to
a young colleague about his three decades as a doctor: ‘‘I know
now how people die,”’ he said. ‘‘But I still don’t know why.’’ On
that question he needed Socrates and Job more than he needed
professionalism.

Liberal learning helps us to see the community, and the
mystery of the human person, with diffidence but also with
responsibility. It helps us to begin to learn that we are not
defenseless against evil, but that our professionalism is not
enough for a moral life.

Finally, we can fend off professional idolatry by locating and
treasuring the feminine in ourselves and in our professional tradi-

 

tions. The gentleman’s ethic in the professions was but is no
longer the creation and province of men. If it were again to be as
masculine as it was in Trollope’s day, it would be, by the fact of
its bias, an unacceptable ethic; it would be corrupted too deeply
to be worth returning to. It would also and again become a
justification, as its 19th-century manifestations were in Britain
and in North America, for racism and exploitation of the poor.

An attempt to locate and describe the feminine quality in the
gentleman’s ethic is necessary as a matter of justice. If we succeed
at it, we will not only reduce the sexism in our professions but will
also reduce the other ways in which we are unjust. I am tempted
to make an even bolder claim: Our doing this—our discovering
what Jung would have called the anima in our collective profes-
sional soul—is a way to diminish professional self-deception and
the idolatry in which we see professionalism where we ought to
see God.

The question would be how to explicate and treasure the
feminine side of the gentleman’s ethic; and on that question I am
reliably told that I don’t know what I’m talking about. I do know
what I’m worried about though—what I cannot avoid being wor-
ried about, because I am a teacher of women who are lawyers: I
am worried about evasion of the feminine. Letwin does not ad-
dress this question; she takes Madame Max as the prototypical
gentleman in Trollope’s stories, and Lizzie Eustace as the pro-
totypical cad, and does not talk about the fact that neither was a
man. It’s too easy to say. ‘‘Ladies are also gentlemen,’’ as one of
my (male) students did.

I am struck by a curious feature of stories about women in the
professions in the days when, for the most part, the professions
excluded women—about Myra Bradwell, for example. She was a
Chicago housewife, mother, and editor, who had great influence
on the law of Illinois but who was not allowed admission to the
bar until she was old and famous—four years before her death.

5

a aE fa a Te eS ea, Mice) eat Rt ea on Ee ne cae Manes a ee Hct Al A es SY ck eo I ee oe ee, ae + CM Cg Pe oo ot tute Brahh nf. tea, Ait a

 

Return of the Gentleman

Her memory was appropriately celebrated in a book about
American women, written for the bicentennial celebration in the
United States. The curiosity I mentioned appears in this sentence:
‘‘In part, perhaps, because as a woman she was an outsider, Myra
Bradwell was able to perceive many ways in which the operation
of the courts could be improved, and. . . an impressive number
of her suggestions were enacted into law.’’

Myra Bradwell was a prophetic figure in the life of the law
and lawyers in Illinois. The quotation suggests that this was possi-
ble because she was an outsider; and she was an outsider because
she was a woman. A prophet is always outside his culture and at
the same time within and a part of it. It would be outrageous to
suggest, now, that women not be admitted to the bar because
their moral influence will be greater if they are outside the profes-
sion. But there may be a subtle point about being both outside
and inside, and about women who are both outside and inside,
that remains useful.

eee ae

There are other tests for the gentleman’s ethic. Some I have
thought of but don’t have time for. I need to mention one—lest
anyone think this is, after all, an endorsement: The greatest dif-
ficulty I have with the gentleman’s ethic is its inability to accept
the suffering of others as a consequence of virtue. The gentleman
is a protector; he protects the weak—including, as William
Faulkner’s gentleman-lawyer, Gavin Stevens, said, ‘‘the weak
who are not even weak.’’ That means that he has to have people
to protect, and that if he cannot find them he will invent them.
He will seek out or create delusions of weakness. And this leads
to the necessary inferiority of women, racial minorities, and of
unusual and alien people. I am struck by the fact that all of the
gentleman stories I have read or heard contain this element of
protection, this refusal to allow others to endure the passion and
the pride of man. This is as‘true of Trollope’s stories as it is of
Faulkner’s, as true of gentleman-lawyers and gentleman-doctors
as of gentlemen in business.

The gentleman who is snared by false weakness in those he
protects has also to invent a way to feel morally secure. The way I
find most often is a false set of virtues and vices. The virtue of
honor, for example, which is a matter of peer approval more than
of goodness. Or the vice of shame, which is a matter of peer
disapproval. The false virtues become ways to avoid both the real
virtues and the lessons about suffering that are to be found in the
gentlemen’s Jewish and Christian religious tradition.

ek oS

Still, the gentleman’s ethic is remarkably hearty. It turns up in
a popular television program about doctors in inner-city Boston.
It is in our cowboy stories, our sailor stories, our soldier stories,
our lawyer stories, and even our feminist stories. It looks down
on us from portraits on the walls of our schools, our hospitals,
and our courthouses.

We love the gentleman and we seek to imitate him. We con-
front the fact that he is a man, and that his ethic is sexist, by say-
ing that ladies can be gentlemen too. We probe the substance of
his ethic and find Aristotle—not a bad mentor. We test his ethic

6

 

and find that it is not essentially a matter of class or status or
wealth or breeding or noblesse oblige. His ethic withstands
tragedy and the pain that personal courage necessarily demands.
But, finally, it cannot account for the pain that is beyond the
reach of personal courage, the pain in others that is the necessary
consequence of any sound morality.

You cannot choose a professional ethic as you would choose a
husband or a place to live or a church to go to. A professional
ethic is mostly something you already have. You don’t choose it;
you describe it. You try to tell the truth about it. We American
professionals cannot excise Robert E. Lee or Lewis Thomas’
father from our lives; they are what we have been and what we
are. We can be false to them, as we are often, in our profes-
sionalism, false to ourselves; we can pretend to forget them; but
they will not go away. Faulkner’s lawyer, Gavin Stevens knew
that: The past, he said, is not dead; it is not even past.

If we try to tell the truth about the gentleman’s ethic, we will,
I think, admire its strength and its integrity. We will appreciate it
as a source of moral capital that we already have, and already
want to have. This is partly because the gentleman has strength
and integrity, and partly because so much of the professional
soul-searching one reads these days is not professional, not
soulful, not searching. The gentleman shines in comparison. But,
then, being as truthful and as thorough as we can, we might have
to admit, as C. S. Lewis put it, that the gentleman got stopped
somewhere on the road to Jerusalem. It will then be useful—as
the proper business of professional ethics—to see if we can figure
out why.

 

 

 

A Novel Approach

Law Professor Tom Shaffer Has Devised An Unorthodox Method of Teaching Legal Ethics
by Jeffery Hanna

When he was dean of the law school at the University of Notre
Dame, Tom Shaffer was not satisfied that the students there were
being adequately prepared to deal with the ethical dilemmas that
awaited them when they left the classrooms for the courtrooms.

Like law schools everywhere, Notre Dame required its
students to take a course in legal ethics. But, also like law schools
everywhere, that course was little more than an introduction to
the prescribed codes of conduct of the American Bar Association.

Shaffer wanted something different, something that would
challenge the students to think about what was behind those
codes and rules and canons. So he proposed a new approach,
looked around for a teacher to implement it, and wound up
volunteering himself.

That was 13 years ago.

Today Tom Shaffer is widely acknowledged as one of the
country’s leading scholars in the field of legal ethics. He has
published more than 35 articles and has lectured widely on sub-
jects in legal ethics and professional conduct. He has written one

 

major study, On Being a Christian and a Lawyer, and is putting
the finishing touches on a new textbook. He has set his sights on
bringing professional ethics and religious ethics together ina
meaningful way.

One other thing has happened since he reshaped that course at
Notre Dame. Shaffer has come to Washington and Lee’s law
school, where he teaches, among other things, a course on legal
ethics—a course that is, by traditional standards, unorthodox, if
not actually unique.

Take one class session early this fall:

Under discussion was Berlin v. Nathan: Lawyer Nathan has
filed a malpractice suit against Dr. Berlin; Nathan has not ade-
quately investigated the situation because he wants to file the suit
before the statute of limitations expires; Dr. Berlin has responded
with a malicious prosecution suit against Nathan.

The case is a standard one for legal ethics classes. The way
Shaffer presents it is not. Actually, Shaffer lets his students pre-
sent the case by writing and acting a mini-drama of sorts—As The

7

Novel Approach

World Turns, Shaffer calls it.

Once the role-playing ends and the discussion begins, students
are as apt to cite a passage from To Kill A Mockingbird as a case
from Problems and Materials on Professional Responsibility.

That figures. To Kill A Mockingbird, Harper Lee’s classic
novel about Southern lawyer Atticus Finch, is the first book
Shaffer’s legal ethics students are required to read. They must
also read William Faulkner’s Jntruder in the Dust and two other
novels about lawyers—hardly the sort of materials you expect to
see under students’ arms in the paper chase atmosphere that is
supposed to be law school.

“*T have a method in assigning such ‘extradisciplinary’
readings,’’ says Shaffer. ‘‘That theory is that stories show morals
in a more fundamental and real way than abstract statements do.

**It’s a school of ethics I learned from Professor Stanley
Hauerwas at Notre Dame. It traces back to H. Richard Niebuhr
at the Yale Divinity School. Niebuhr’s special emphasis was
concern for responsibility in the community. Stories lend
themselves to making points about that.

“Take Atticus Finch. He is not quite a paragon, because he
wouldn’t be interesting if he were just a paragon. But that novel is
a great place to look at responsibility in the community.’’

There is something else about the story method: it’s fun. More
fun, at least, than the codes because, as Shaffer is the first to ad-
mit, the codes are deadly dull. Consequently, legal ethics courses
can be that, too.

**I find students are not bored with the ethics course here.
They come to it with some curiosity,’’ says Shaffer. ‘‘We also get
students with a good liberal education in higher proportion than
other law schools. And people with good liberal educations are
going to be curious about these questions. They’ve heard of
Socrates before—and Moses, too.’’

is

Tom Shaffer was born in Montana and raised in the Moun-
tain and Far West states. He grew up working as a printer’s assis-
tant in a small newspaper but wound up going to Notre Dame’s
law school after getting his bachelor’s degree from the University
of Albuquerque.

“*I was one of those kids who grew up talking a lot and writing
a lot,’’ Shaffer says. ‘‘People say to such kids, ‘You ought to bea
lawyer.’ ”’

“*T didn’t know any lawyers, so I wasn’t being influenced by
anybody, which is the way many people become interested in the
law. In fact, the first lawyer I met was one of my law school
teachers at Notre Dame.’’ He pauses for a moment, relights his
pipe, and leans forward to whisper, conspiratorially almost, ‘‘I’m
teaching that lawyer’s son now. I guess that’s an indication of the
way life meets you coming around the bend.”’

Shaffer is sitting behind the desk in his corner office of the
Frances Lewis Law Center. He came to Washington and Lee as a
visiting scholar in the Lewis Law Center in 1979. The following
year, 1980, he left Notre Dame to join the W&L faculty. Current-
ly he is the director of the Lewis Law Center, a post he assumed
last year when the first director of the center, Frederic L. Kirgis

8

Jr., resigned to become W&L’s law dean.

In addition to his legal ethics course and his administrative
duties with the Lewis Law Center, which conducts symposia and
sponsors visiting scholars to explore issues at the frontiers of law,
Shaffer teaches wills and trusts.

He is plainly at ease in these surroundings, not just this office.
He enjoys the comparative intimacy of the W&L law school and
the lack of distractions that intrude on his time. He is at home in
Lexington, too. He grew up in small towns. He describes Lex-
ington as ‘‘soothing’’ but adds that it still offers ‘‘lots of bright
people with whom to work.’’

In a vague sort of way, Shaffer puts one in mind of actor E.
G. Marshall, or at least of Lawrence Preston, the lawyer Marshall
portrayed on The Defenders, the television program to which
Shaffer is wont to refer on occasion. His voice is deep, his speech
deliberate. He routinely punctuates his sentences with thoughtful
pauses. He laughs easily and tends to put his students at ease with
a sharp sense of humor.

Shaffer readily confesses that he is more comfortable here, in
Lexington and at Washington and Lee, than he was at Notre
Dame. ‘‘I didn’t like academic politics,’’ he says. ‘‘I liked
teaching.”’

Another confession here: had he been able, Shaffer would
have kept going to law school forever—‘‘if somebody had been
willing to pay for it,’’ he says. ‘‘I really liked law school.”’

So he practiced law with an Indianapolis firm only until he
had the chance to go back to law school—as a teacher. And he
jumped at that chance, joining the faculty at Notre Dame in 1963.

Not that the two years he spent in private practice were
wasted. It was there, after all, that he confronted the ethical
dilemmas he now attempts to prepare his students for; clearly, his
experiences in the courtrooms are what motivates him now, in the
classrooms.

“*I belonged to that ‘Sputnik’ generation that was very in-
terested in keeping the haircut short and getting ahead—‘trudging
on time to a tidy fortune,’ that was Auden’s phrase that I always
thought described us,’’ says Shaffer. ‘‘I let the law firm decide
my moral questions. So I remember the questions, but I’m not
happy with the level of sensitivity I brought to them.

*“The questions were resolved all right because the firm was a
moral firm. But I really didn’t think much about them, and I
hope my students do.’’

In the end, that is all a law school can really hope to achieve in
teaching its students about ethics—causing them to consider
seriously the questions.

‘*The tendency in our profession, perhaps more than in the
others, is to try to get specific guidance for moral questions,”’
says Shaffer. ‘‘That tendency always comes up against futility. A
lot of us who teach ethics try to teach away from that tendency. A
university should prepare people for life. And you can’t prepare
them for life with a lot of specifics. You can try to get people to
think, to see where they came from.’’

x =
The concern for preparing lawyers to behave ethically is hard-

a cL LL .ti“( ite”

 

 

ly new. In 1817 a Baltimore lawyer named David Hoffman
started a law school and developed a long course of everything
that his students should study. He included at the end of that
course an ethics session. That was the start.

By 1836, Hoffman had developed an elaborate theoretical
course. That was the beginning of formal legal ethics in a univer-
sity setting.

“In fact, you can trace most of the material that is put in the
codes today to Hoffman,”’ says Shaffer. ‘‘It’s different, but you
can trace it.

**The questions have not changed really. Students like to
think they have, but they haven’t really. The main line issues are
still the same issues Hoffman raised with his students—whether
they should represent scoundrels, how they should represent
them; whether they should argue to courts legal results that aren’t
good for the country, even though they may be good for the
client. Those questions Hoffman talked about all the time. What
changed was the answers.”’

And the answers continue to change, in something of a
cyclical fashion, from a point about 100 years ago when lawyers
defined their function as representing the client and letting the
government worry about what justice is to today when Shaffer
sees a new emphasis.

He contends that the 1870’s represent a decisive point in the
cycle: the Industrial Revolution, which featured business
organizations headquartered in big cities, particularly New York,
and advised by law firms headquartered there.

‘*Those two grew together in a kind of /aissez faire ethic,”’
notes Shaffer. ‘‘What the lawyers came to be concerned about
was their clients rather than the community. You had the best
lawyers in the country in the 1870’s representing the robber
barons, guys who were just crooks. Period.

 

“*You were bound to have some correctives set in. And they
did within a generation or so. But I think you’ve almost reached a
point today where there is an about-face from that situation.”’

**Today there is much, much doubt being cast in the profes-
sion on the adversary ethic,’’ he says. ‘‘There is a lot of real pain
among lawyers who have to face those questions about the ade-
quacy of that ethic.”’

x * *

In the movie And Justice For All attorney Al Pacino is paying
his weekly visit to his grandfather in a nursing home. The grand-
father, who must be reminded constantly that Pacino is a lawyer,
finally asks of the grandson: ‘‘So you’re a lawyer. Are you an
honest one?’’

Replies Pacino: ‘‘Being a lawyer doesn’t have much to do
with being honest, grandpa.’’

Shaffer expects most lawyers cringed when they heard that
line. Most, but not all. ‘‘Most lawyers wouldn’t say that,’’ he
says. “‘But some would, and I think that question bothers
everybody.’’

Whether the cycle has come full circle since 1870, there is little
question that today there is greater concern among lawyers about
their public image. As Shaffer observes, errant lawyers are sub-
jected to disciplinary action far more frequently nowadays than
was the case 20 or 10 or even five years ago. The efforts are con-
siderable to see that the public perception of lawyers is of
honorable, ethical, moral men and women.

Even so, is it not the case that a lawyer can act ethically, yet
still be unpopular within the larger society? Shaffer says it is so.
Moreover, he says such a situation is inevitable and maybe even
healthy.

**To Kill A Mockingbird is a story about as admirable a man
as there could possibly be and yet a man who is very unpopular in

9

i ed oe ee ee pe lees

Novel Approach

his town because of his client. That sort of thing happens with
lawyers all the time,’’ Shaffer says.

**Still, the country turns to lawyers to help it resolve its moral
questions, always does and always has, which is kind of ironic.
There may be a certain level of unpopularity that is necessary for
the health of the profession and of the country.”’

In remarks at the commencement exercises for W&L’s School
of Law last May, former Dean Roy L. Steinheimer put the matter
another way when he warned the new lawyers that ‘‘they will
often be misunderstood and unloved even when they have
diligently and conscientiously discharged their professional
obligations . . . Being misunderstood and unloved just goes with
the territory of being a lawyer.”’

Knowing that doesn’t make it any easier, of course. And
realizing that there are no satisfactory answers to all the moral
dilemmas lawyers will face hardly makes facing them easier. But
it is one thing to face those dilemmas, another to avoid them
entirely.

Something else: it is one thing to ponder these ethical issues
from the comparative safety of Lewis Hall, quite another to con-
front those issues head-on in day-to-day practice.

Shaffer does not deny that difficulty. Yet, he says what he
hears from former students is encouraging.

“‘Given the sort of things lawyers deal with—or doctors, too,
for that matter—I don’t think you will ever be very comfortable
if you’re a moral person. I expect students who get out in practice
to be uncomfortable in these situations,’’ he says. ‘‘As long as
they’re serious about it, I have confidence in their character. I did
when they were students.

‘“*This is my 22nd year of teaching law students, and I just
don’t hear of very many cases where graduates have lost their
moral sensitivity. I do hear a few. I’d expect to; otherwise I’m not
hearing anything that’s reliable. I hear this: that it’s very hard,
very subtle, and that the pressures are very demanding.’’

How could it be otherwise? Lawyers, like doctors, specialize
in the crises of other people. In the United States, notes Shaffer,
that is even more pronounced because American lawyers have
always gotten deeper into their clients’ lives, ‘‘living with their
client in a much deeper personal relationship, more like a pastoral
relationship or a psychological one.”’

That brings Shaffer to the one point he tries to impress upon
his students from the earliest sessions of his legal ethics class. The
moral life is filled with pain; it must be.

**You cannot resolve moral questions without suffering—
yourself and others. To expect a harmonious life is just not
history. It is not scripture either, for that matter,’’ says Shaffer.
“*Lawyers are bound to be at the moral edge all the time. I found
when I was practicing law, and I think my students find, that the
moments of harmony—and there are such moments—are not as
frequent as you would hope.’’

x * *

Tom and Nancy Shaffer are the parents of eight children. Four
are currently attending college. Four have already graduated
from college.

10

At some point or another, all four of those college graduates
expressed an interest, more or less, in attending law school. Early
on Shaffer developed a method of counseling them about that.

He tells them first to go find out what it’s like to be a lawyer, then
come back and talk to him about law school.

**T don’t want them to come to law school unless they want to
be a lawyer, and I have, with that speech, talked a couple of them
out of it,’’ he says.

That speech failed to dissuade one of his sons. The Shaf-
fers’ second oldest child, Mike, took his fathers’ advice to
heart. He got a job in Seattle and worked as a volunteer with
some public interest lawyers. Then Mike came back to his
father and said he still wanted to go to law school. So he
came to Washington and Lee. Mike is a third-year student
now. This semester one of his courses is legal ethics.

Shaffer is pleased not only that Mike decided to become a
lawyer but that he chose Washington and Lee.

x * *

Thirteen years ago when Shaffer began teaching legal ethics at
Notre Dame, he had no idea where it would eventually lead. But
he happened to become interested in that aspect of legal educa-
tion at a time when others were becoming interested. Vietnam-era
students, ‘‘fist-shakers’’ Shaffer calls them, were passionately,
militantly, interested in the moral questions and, he recalls, ‘‘not
very happy with the standard answers.”’

 

Then along came Watergate and the realization that many of
the central figures in Watergate were lawyers. ‘‘The profession
responded to that by saying, ‘We’ve got to pay more attention to
ethics.’ There was a certain amount of energy there. A lot of it
was public relations energy. But there was energy. That en-
courages a scholar, too, because you’ve got people reading what
you write if you write about something that is fashionable.”’

So here he is, 13 years later, and not at all bashful about ad-
mitting what it is he’s up to these days.

‘*T really aim to write things that might influence people’s
behavior,’’ he says. ‘‘Most of my scholarship has been trying to
put legal ethics and religious ethics together. I would like to get a
really sound, scholarly synthesis between professional ethics and
religious ethics. At the very best it would be one of many. But if it
could be sound, then I’d be happy.”’

aaa czzcCccccccacacacaaaaacacasa el

 

From The President

Dr. Wilson’s Message to Students About The Coeducation Decision

(Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson sent the following letter to all cur-
rent Washington and Lee students in August before the students returned to Lex-
ington for the 1984-85 academic year. Since President Wilson addresses many of
the specific questions that have arisen since the Board of Trustees’ July decision in
favor of coeducation, we thought it appropriate to reprint his letter here.—Ed.)

The special issue of the Ring-tum Phi will have (I hope) reached you by now
with its news of the Board’s decision. I write to sketch in a bit more of the
background and to let you know where things stand on several important fronts. A
note of this kind cannot take the place of conversations, but I hope it will help, at
least until the new year begins.

The Trustee decision and all the deliberations leading to it were as complex and
emotional as any we have recently known. This may have been true simply because
the discussions extended over such a long period of time, time in which student,
faculty, staff, and alumni opinions could be expressed. But it was true, I think,
mainly because of the fierce and devoted loyalty Washington and Lee has attracted
over the years—and it was true because a change of a fundamental kind was on
our agenda—a change, as many of you observed, which would be irrevocable and
which would be bound to alter, in subtle ways, the ambiance of the University.

The difficulty about momentous decisions of this sort is that no one can see the
future with absolute clarity. It is true that many of us were deeply worried about
the decline in academic quality and reputation which a shrinking pool of interested
male high school graduates could bring over the next two decades. Others were
concerned that our unwillingness to share the special qualities of this place with
young women of talent and ambition would one day put us out of touch with what
was happening in the larger society. Indeed there were signs, not yet definitive but
not invisible either, that the nation’s laws and regulations, following the Grove City
case, could one day not far off compel a change of this kind, or serve to isolate us
from our real peers.

But mostly, you should know, the Board determined that Washington and Lee’s
academic quality and standing were the dominant issues before us. All relevant
testimony pointed toward the likelihood that our academic programs would be
strengthened through the admission of women and that this would also be true of
our co-curricular and extracurricular life. The testimony of our faculty, and
especially of our alumni faculty members, proved to be very important in the
Board’s assessment and decision.

The task now before us is a major one. We must do everything we reasonably
can to anticipate the matriculation of young women in the fall of 1985 and to in-
sure a University-wide commitment to make them welcome. In the process we must
sort through how the special values and special institutional forms we have here
can be generously shared with women students. The concept of honor and the
habits and practice of a strong autonomous student body, with extraordinary
powers delegated directly to it by the Board, are features of our life here that we
must enhance and reinforce, even as we plan a transition from an all-male to a
shared community of men and women together. One thing seems to me very clear:
our self-imposed standard of civility, decency and mutual caring and support gives
us an extraordinary advantage that few of the other all-male colleges had when
they began the transition now facing Washington and Lee.

There are bound to be rumors about what this change will mean to various and
important facets of our current program. I hope we can work out ways, through
the Ring-tum Phi and through the Executive Committee, to keep these rumors
under control. I hope, too, that the coeducation committee I will name later this
summer (see page 21) will be able to assist us all in finding out what is true, what
is not and what is likely or not likely to happen.

 

President Wilson

1]

President’s Message

The Board’s decision, reached on 14 July, could not be accompanied by a com-
plete scenario for the rest of this century. We simply will need to take stock at
various points along the way and be willing and able to make adjustments as con-
ditions dictate.

But the Board did set out as a value the relatively small size of the University
and the small enrollments by course and section which define so much of what we
do. Therefore, the target for the first ten years (1995) calls for very little overall
growth in undergraduate enrollment. We are at liberty to plan on a total size be-
tween 1,350 and 1,500 undergraduates by that date, with something like 500 of those
places to be taken by qualified women. That is what we will be aiming for, but we
will have to see how successful we will be in attracting strong applications from
women as well as men. Early signs are most encouraging, but they are early in-
deed. I might note that many other formerly all-male colleges did manage, in the
seventies, to reach a 33 percent enrollment of women in the first decade. It may be
harder for us to achieve, given the special conditions of the late 80’s and early
90’s, but that is what we will be hoping to achieve.

You should also know that we fully expect the continuing development and im-
provement in our fraternity system and see no inherent reason why any house
should fail. Of course, houses have failed in the past. They may fail in the future,
if the weaker foundations are unable to attract adequate membership. If, by 1995,
our male enrollment has stabilized at 1,000, clearly the fraternity system as now
constituted will have to attract a higher percentage of Washington and Lee students
than it now does. The figure today is just over 60 percent (approximately 800 of
1,325). The figure two decades ago was much closer to 85 percent. I know that the
houses will have to develop strong, attractive programs that go beyond the social,
in order to raise that percentage. But the Board hopes that such programs will
develop even as our all-University programs, social and otherwise, are improved.
There is nothing I hope for more than a new and determined effort by our frater-
nities to reassert themselves as constructive forces in our community life.

The athletic programs will face similar challenges, but I am confident that we
will witness a strong and vibrant development over the next ten years. The Athletic
Committee, with Athletic Director William McHenry’s key assistance, has set out a
likely pattern of development for women’s intercollegiate competition to comple-
ment our men’s programs. We have no anticipation whatsoever of dropping any
men’s varsity teams. I am very happy to report that the athletic staff are looking
forward to new dimensions in the overall program, and we will do everything we
can to give assistance as needed. By 1995 there could well be as many as six or
seven women’s varsity teams to complement our men’s program, though, obvious-
ly, we will have to wait to see where the women who matriculate want to invest
their athletic energies.

There are many more subjects I could easily take up in this memo, but it has
already become longer than I intended—and, anyway, we will, as the year unfolds,
find many things to consider that we can only guess at now. The main thing I want
to say is that I am deeply gratified to have heard from so many alumni and
students in the past two weeks pledging their continuing support for Washington
and Lee. These letters have come from both sides of the issue and I know that you
will feel the same way, regardless of your earlier feelings about it. We have the
rare privilege of helping a great University assume an enlarged mission, one that
will welcome not just the sons and grandsons of alumni but the chi/dren of alumni
and the young men and women who will be the alumni of tomorrow. I really
believe that working together we can make this a happy chapter in the long history
of Washington and Lee. I invite your help and your support as we move forward
to implement the trustees’ decision.

 

JOHN D. WILson
President

12
i i i ee

by Frank A. Parsons

Turning Back The Clock

Thirty Years Ago A Major Controversy Raged on W&L’s Campus

The University was a changed place
when the students came back in
September. The special meeting of the
Board of Trustees in July had resulted in
a highly controversial decision that was
warmly welcomed by the faculty, hotly
debated by students, and bitterly con-
demned by alumni.

All agreed that Washington and Lee
would never be quite the same again.

What it was, was football. And when
it was, was 1954.

xk *k *

There are controversies aplenty in
Washington and Lee’s long history. Few,
if any, have drawn the initial storm of
reaction that the abrupt change in athletic
policy did 30 years ago this fall.

As the University engaged last year in
debate and study of coeducation, another
issue that divided alumni opinion,
memories of the football crisis returned
and comparisons were drawn.

An appreciation of the football crisis
of 1954 requires some familiarity with the
history of the sport at W&L. The school
traces its football origin to 1873 and a
series of games with VMI and a few
other opponents over the next two
decades. There were Golden Years: from
1912 through 1915 the legendary Cy
Young helped W&L to a record of 32
wins, 3 losses, and a single tie. There was
a Southern Conference championship in
1934 under Coach Tex Tilson. In the ear-
ly ’50s the Generals capped an 8-2
season with a Gator Bowl appearance on
January 1, 1951, and the following
season handed a great Virginia team its
only loss by a memorable 42-14 score.

For many years it was possible on oc-
casion for the little Washington and
Lee’s, tiny Sewanee’s, and small Centre’s

This piece is adapted from a paper
prepared earlier this year for presentation to a
meeting of Lexington’s Fortnightly Club,
whose 25 members come largely from the
faculty and staff of the community’s two col-
leges. Its author, Frank Parsons, ’54, came on
the Washington and Lee dole in September
1954 as Director of Publicity. Since 1960, he
has served as Assistant to the President for
Fred C. Cole, Robert E. R. Huntley, and John
D. Wilson. He also is editor of this magazine.

of college football to smite the mighty
Kentucky’s and the Alabama’s, the
prestigious Harvard’s. For W&L, hard
times followed the 1934 championship
season, culminating in 1942 when Coach
Jerry Holstein took what was left of the
University’s war-decimated enrollment
and managed only one win in nine
games. There were no teams at W&L for
three years, and alumni read with envious
eyes the exploits of Glen Davis and Doc
Blanchard of Army and Angelo Bertelli
and Johnny Lujack of Notre Dame,
among others.

If such things could happen at West
Point and South Bend, why not Lex-
ington? A survey of alumni in the

months immediately following the war’s
end revealed a strong willingness to sup-
port a major football emphasis.

A new coach, Art Lewis, used great
energy and persuasive powers to make
life in Lexington look good to strapping
youngsters from McKeesport and
Swoyersville, Steubenville and Massilon.
Of such was the team fashioned that
Coach George Barclay inherited in 1949
when Lewis moved to West Virginia
University. Two of the best players in
this legacy were a sleight-of-hand quarter-
back named Gil Bocetti and a tree-trunk
linebacker/fullback named Walt
Michaels. If God had intended for
Washington and Lee to be a big-time

 

 
 

Cel}, Cd/

   
     
    

    
 

 

wo
o Q/ Aband Football
= a Ith AUVs (Related story on page 6)
7 “hingt d Lee Ur
RR oO Foon: ( / e ‘ need ~ and football kins “at sri
Z 1 nueg from S/ ate football until such a
; i WO: Fla, Pace One, IZ qd sis” with Schvols
.- a: Ay A r
> | E 20 Schp i SC Ou
eo G , a
. Y . . Uniy, . Wwe; s on A th e g
m,° : clog
Cr, 7 MI Oth;
if h Sigh D
t t ed an a
Wh :
‘
Aries, on
‘ tba) ded
a e
“ T
} Li mee
ow
° r lost to
7 1. The
4: {
a o oe", *s4 SY O sien —
Ls oO oot ° . . ~ by th
=< = Oo we 0 of wot le . “,, ly ° ' man day said
_ om O e op h ow teen! in. 7, uh otified of
% ‘ ‘aculy pes "all ep %», aise hed
mal “Dr ly ie MOrldny: ws ° nn let, il uf
at 0 st rr [ue Res ul 27 mnt CV 0n, 8.
a oO oi wi ae tt Ino o fr €spor n SI Ihe . “4 that W&L
ra) sete tt at Os 8 O0tball] € for Wey
ea see . v 00 YS >Aluy Ay yasis”
. aoe 0 a. oe Mnus CC mee
xe Wed Oost SRE SLe ye Vu la Ws ee
W&L Football ica a ee. MEEg 238%
SO SP ANO® CeF SRE ded be-
Bri Sh k d C x ot ae a, 4 “Ay eady comu sitted.” .
rings Shocke omments ° \ Os dont “AC;
10 4
pecisi— : =|
e +
Ss © Om
News Not Expected by Schoo! Heads prastic — Caen our PO "= AS
After Earlier Action by Generals * oS = os
By SPORTS Wr tk R jos ee \ys1 cf" mnt
wr _ ; n
Ill be aa nea ae ‘ \ M! : accisio” c . =. oe)
oe Doe f 7 / e
rs : prone tied ts 19 . \ To he yS80p, My 1 = wz
4 ’
THE SHOCK an POS mec! B
Nt = '
general with eve Cr d o
lece president on dos Co lies Ol 0 = o a
cigar store follower Cor lat Ce One, 1 ~ c So 4
Dr. Walter S. Newmar ‘sie a, € loo ¢
dent of Virginia 7 yas? rhe e ts fe h 8
sti tute—* 1¢ vetion m 7 tee Oth 1a] —_ = a
, yn ¢ an ce aera. 494 “We ne think ¢ / @ a =| ®
4 7 4 st +3)
. = Ts ay.) alumni head here went o1 . & S
{O “Tm awfully sorry 2 see 2, ea =P,
ad \ Lee *n, but it was a known fact 3 ; =~, & nD
wn KW as = all "shot eoulant finer : iy 28
wan . ele, It Lied ad with the. man- Font sto, tz , wn “re
meta QO uit re ene = c. eure Z an “aap ing Bigg nig te eg P2N, |
evs Wee ay ee . , ‘ Soins, Ms #ay Me No, Conpgho k. angst My oo

ttoanoxe World-lews July 24

Washin gion &.Lee

 
 
 
 

   
 

 

 

 

13

 

 

Turning Back The Clock

football power, He wouldn’t have struck
down Michaels with appendicitis the week
before the Gator Bowl. So it is that
W&L’s great moment in the national
spotlight is remembered as an ‘‘ap-
pearance’’ in the Gator Bowl, not a vic-
tory. Wyoming won, 20-7.

After a 6-4 season in 1951, Barclay
was hired away by North Carolina, his
alma mater. His best assistant, Carl
Wise, became the Generals’ chief of
staff. The team was undermanned and
over-scheduled, and elsewhere on the
campus there was growing concern over
the condition of football at W&L and the
direction it was heading.

In the post-war period the athletic
enterprise at Washington and Lee was a
strange hybrid, an evolutionary mix of
intercollegiate sports and physical educa-
tion devised under the leadership of a
truly wonderful man, Cap’n Dick Smith.
Football was the cash crop, expected to
provide funds to support the rest of the
intercollegiate program. Its coaches were
employees of the Athletic Association
and didn’t teach physical education.
Neither did the basketball coach, but he
doubled as baseball coach. All the other
coaches were physical education instruc-
tors as well. If football produced the
money, then it got first claim on it. A lit-
tle was shared with basketball; the rest of
the sports got a pittance.

Even when Wilson Field was filled to
capacity there wasn’t a lot of money to
be generated playing in Lexington. The big
bucks were in playing at schools like
Georgia Tech, Tennessee, West Virginia,
and Maryland, or in meeting state op-
ponents in Richmond or Lynchburg.
Even so, Washington and Lee hardly dic-
tated the terms of the contracts, and if it
rained on game day in Nashville,
Washington and Lee lost out before
Vanderbilt did.

To keep up with the fast company
dictated by the money games, there had
to be players. And players meant scholar-
ships. The arrangement agreed upon in
the post-war football renewal involved
tuition and fee waivers by the University
for football recruits as its contribution.
Room and board and incidental expenses,
including occasional coats and ties, were

14

 

to be supported by alumni contributions
through a special ‘‘Generals’ Fund.’’
Equipment, travel, and recruiting ex-
penses were to be covered by guarantees
and gate receipts, as were the salaries of
football coaches and the basketball
coach.

Admissions then was a one-man af-
fair. Frank Gilliam was both Dean of
Students and Director of Admissions and
was excellent in both capacities. There
was an understanding with the athletic
department not to worry. Many of the
football recruits were indeed what Dean
James G. Leyburn referred to as
‘calculated academic risks.’’

Thus it was in 1952 and 1953 that
Washington and Lee’s football program
was finding it more and more difficult to
sustain itself financially and provide sup-
port for other sports. Simultaneously, in-
creasing competition for gifted players
was forcing recruiters to bring in players
ill-prepared to handle a curriculum that
provided no easy path toward eligibility.
In 1952-53, the Athletic Department ask-
ed the University to pay $8,000 in
outstanding bills it could not cover from
revenues; in 1953-54, the deficit ap-
proached $22,000—not big money by to-
day’s standards. But in 1954, $22,000
bought the services of four full
professors.

Finances alone didn’t precipitate the
summer crisis of 1954. People did. Or,
more precisely, the lack of people.

The 1953 football season ended on a
high note—victories over Virginia, David-
son, and William & Mary, a 4-6 season
overall. At November’s end, it looked as
if 38 of these players would be available
in 1954 along with the customary 15
scholarship freshmen. By June 1954, 21
of the 38 veteran players had left school.
Nine flunked out; 12 others left under
the cloud of a major, organized violation
of the revered Honor System.

What many called a ‘‘cheating syn-
dicate’’ was discovered by student leaders
that spring. Two football players had
turned in identical, extraordinarily ac-
curate quiz papers in a geology course
that had been giving them a good bit of
trouble. Under questioning, the accused
students not only admitted their col-

laborative cheating on the quiz, but blew
the whistle on others. In all, 15

students—all athletes but one—withdrew
in the face of the evidence against them.

In a special student body assembly,
Executive Committee President William
M. Bailey told details of how the syn-
dicate worked, a story of master keys
that unlocked professors’ offices and the
central duplicating office where quizzes
were typed and stored, of a cooperative
student wife who worked in the
duplicating office, and a night watchman
who looked the other way for a price.
When Bailey was done, the students in
Lee Chapel gave him and his fellow com-
mitteemen a prolonged standing ovation.

Meantime, the coaching staff counted
heads and found that, at best, they
would have only 32 players with whom to
meet a nine-game schedule that included
West Virginia, Vanderbilt, Virginia, and
Pennsylvania (before Penn grew Ivy).
President Gaines informed the Universi-
ty’s Trustees on June 15 of the possibility
that W&L might have to cancel its 1954
season.

He called a meeting of the Board’s
executive and athletic committees for July
7.

The Trustees were not exactly taken
by surprise. As early as January 1952
concern had been expressed within the
Board about the costs, both academic
and financial, of a commitment to major
college football. In January 1954, the
Board had heard that football was an-
ticipating a $20,000 deficit by June, and
the Trustees had instructed the President
to ‘‘explore a group of colleges with
prestige and with some relationship to
Washington and Lee willing to organize
an athletic program on a non-subsidized
basis.’

The July 7 meeting involved Trustees,
athletic committeemen, alumni represen-
tatives, and athletic staff members. After
three hours of discussion, the Trustees
went into executive session to formulate
these conclusions:

‘‘That the University feels honorably
committed to its 1954 schedule and will
undertake to fulfill it, subject to some
modification. (This is to say we shall ask
some of the more powerful teams if they

i Cennmnnenis es int Sate ikl ie i id cde tala Sali aaah ee ibis i ik oe tds ta Ss Je ia ko i a ee MONA lll

can replace us on their schedules.)

‘‘The Trustee committee records its
conviction that football of some sort or
another is an important factor in the life
of college boys and should be continued.

‘*‘The committee will recommend to
the full Board that subsidization as such
be stopped as soon as possible and that
college sports on this campus be placed
on an amateur basis.”’

In a memo to all Trustees, President
Gaines observed that academic considera-
tions were the primary motivation for
these assertions. ‘‘We do not consider it
wise to have two programs of educational
life on this campus, one for the athletes
and one for the students.’’ He further
noted the considerable financial deficit,
now cited at $25,000, and the fallacy of
scheduling only two or three home games
in order to schedule at least four
games with opponents offering large
cash guarantees. The recommendation of
an end to subsidization was softened in
the press statement to a call for gradual
de-emphasis. Gaines looked forward to a
full Board discussion in October, but the
need for a special meeting was quickly
recommended.

On July 15, President Gaines was
writing the Trustees again. In the interim
he had been called on by the football
coaching staff with what amounted to an
ultimatum: unless permitted to bring the
number of scholarship players immediate-
ly to 50, the coaches would resign.
Gaines prevailed upon Coach Wise to
withhold his resignation, pending the out-
come of the special meeting scheduled for
July 23 in Washington, D.C.

The morning papers of July 24 carried
a shocker, news big enough to make the
front pages in Virginia. The Trustees had
come to the fork in the road and had
taken an uncertain path, whistling brave-
ly. The six-point statement said:

e With regret, W&L suspends inter-
collegiate football for the time being and
cancels all scheduled games.

e All other obligations of the W&L
sports program, except the playing of
football games, are to be carried out
faithfully and fully.

e Intramural football is to be further
encouraged.

 

President Gaines

ee E
ee

Ss

 

egies

 

 

Dean Leyburn

e Consideration is to be given to the
possibility of re-establishing inter-
collegiate football on an amateur basis,
by, among other things, trying to find
other schools of a similar mind.

e No other athletic scholarships will
be offered beyond those already
committed.

e The University will seek to expand
its intercollegiate and intramural athletic
program so as to interest and enlist par-
ticipation of the largest number of
students possible.

Cries of anger and frustration follow-
ed from alumni, individuals and organiz-
ed chapters. There was bitter condemna-
tion from most sports columnists. An ex-
ception was Chauncey Durden of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch who wrote in
his column of July 25: ‘‘Friday’s action
will not affect Washington and Lee as a
university: Even its football-minded
alumni will come to know there was no
alternative as college football is operated
today.’’

But if the sports pages in general were
saying bad things about W&L’s decision,
the editorial pages found the Trustees’
action praiseworthy. For instance, the
Louisville Courier-Journal wrote: ‘‘Foot-
ball needs Washington and Lee far more
than Washington and Lee needs football.
W&L will continue in its proud tradition
as a place of culture and learning.”’

For some of the more vocal alumni
critics there was far too much culture and
learning at W&L already, and they
played the blame on ‘‘a faculty clique
made up of pseudo-intellectuals’’ under
the domination of Dean James G.
Leyburn. a

A prominent sociologist at Yale,
Leyburn came to W&L in 1947 as Dean
of the University. Subsequently, he
presented the faculty a comprehensive
commentary on his evaluation of the
goals that the University should seek as a
center of learning, the so-called
‘‘Leyburn Plan.’’ In his remarks to the
faculty, Leyburn suggested several topics
that should be debated within the faculty
in the months ahead. The first was ‘‘The
means of inculcating in our students the
feeling that the primary goal of college
life is intellectual stimulation and achieve-
ment, that all extracurricular activities are
secondary to this goal, and that
Washington and Lee’s reputation should
not in any sense rest upon the achieve-
ment of its football team, the success of

15

Turning Back The Clock

its Fancy Dress balls, or (now this is a
little hard to visualize today!) the luxury
of its fraternity houses.’’

Some alumni claimed there was an
‘fax group’’ who were out to end football
at the University and argued that Dean
Leyburn and his like were determined ‘‘to
replace the well-rounded Washington and
Lee man of the past with a breed of Phi
Beta Kappas.”’

The Roanoke alumni passed a formal
resolution ‘‘deploring’’ the football deci-
sion, criticizing the failure to seek alumni
counsel, and asking for a ‘‘modest,
middle-of-the-road’’ athletic subsidization
program that would bring back inter-
collegiate football as soon as possible.
The Roanoke action was the first of a
number of formal protests from organiz-
ed alumni groups. From Jacksonville,
Charlotte, the Upper Potomac, and
Augusta-Rockingham came news of con-
certed protest. From New Orleans there
came a telegram from the executive com-
mittee of the alumni chapter, proclaiming
faith in the Board of Trustees to act
wisely, endorsing what it said others call-
ed ‘‘Leyburnism,’’ and urging a football
schedule that included Sewanee, Amherst,
Williams, Swarthmore, and Haverford.

So it was in September 1954, football
was gone when the students returned.
Controversy was not. The first issue of
the Ring-tum Phi had football news and
comment on every page. Carl Wise had
been granted a three-month leave to
coach in the new Canadian professional
league. Boyd Williams, a Lexington in-
surance man and former assistant coach
at VMI and Richmond, was named in-
terim coach to help ‘‘keep the spark of
football alive.’’ Later that fall, about 45
students, most of them freshmen and
sophomores, but including a handful of
remaining scholarship players, played a
four-game schedule against Hargrave
Military Academy and JV teams from
Emory & Henry, Hampden-Sydney, and
Bridgewater. Many of the grant-in-aid
upperclassmen and those expected as
freshmen had opted to go elsewhere.

The banner headline and lead story in
that first Ring-tum Phi had President
Gaines explaining the events of the sum-
mer to the opening assembly and promis-

16

   

 

ing that football’s demise was only tem-
porary. The lead editorial asked ‘‘What’s
Ahead?’ and went on to say:

‘*This is no time for pessimism.
Neither is it a time for rash outbreaks by
members of the Washington and Lee
family, nor blind attacks on personalities.
Football has not been dropped per-
manently, but merely ‘recessed’ for the
year. The whole future stands ahead.

‘*The future will be as good as
Washington and Lee students, alumni,
and faculty make it. Washington and Lee
can come through the ordeal a much bet-
ter school with a much finer athletic pro-
gram, or it can suffer serious setbacks on
both accounts. The deciding factor will
depend on whether or not all members of
the W&L family can forget petty dif-
ferences which may exist, work together,
and stay together until the situation is
worked out in the best interest of the
University.”’

It would be nice to say that
Washington and Lee’s men did fall in
line, that we won again another time.
Unfortunately, not right away.

Shortly after the July 24 an-
nouncements, Gaines was approached by
1949 alumnus Bill Chipley about
coaching football at W&L if and when
the sport was resumed. Chipley was sell-
ing carpet for James Lees but had im-
pressive football credentials: three years
varsity play at Clemson before the war,
an All-Southern Conference end for
W&L in 1946, three years as a profes-
sional in the short-lived All-American
League. To Gaines, Bill Chipley seemed
the perfect way to quell the continued
harping of many alumni.

    
 

Boyd William

s addresses candidates for the 195

In February 1955, Chipley was an-
nounced as the new head varsity coach,
with Boyd Williams staying on as his
chief assistant. A seven-game schedule in-
cluded Centre College, Davidson,
Southwestern at Memphis, Washington
University of St. Louis, Hampden-
Sydney, Sewanee, and West Virginia
Tech. In the opening game against Centre
on Wilson Field, W&L fullback Alex
Platt went 64 yards for a touchdown on
the first running play from scrimmage.
Welcome back, football—piece of cake!
Not quite. The Generals wound up 0-7
for the year. The controversy boiled on.

By December, Bill Chipley was mak-
ing headlines by accusing the fraternities
of holding back prime talent to compete
in the intramural program, thus under-
mining the program. He also accused
W&L’s opponents of being less than open
about the help their assumed amateur
players were getting. His solution?
Weaken the schedule even more and get
better athletes at W&L.

W&L played the same opponents
again in 1956, plus Wabash College. The
season was a success, compared to 1955S.
Everyone beat up on the Generals except
Sewanee. After one win in 15 games,
even patient alumni were getting a little
restless. The student government launch-
ed a fact-finding study that issued these
recommendations—a return to limited
subsidization with 50 athletic grants-in-
aid, subject to need and administered by
a faculty committee. Fraternities would
be asked to provide free board for such
athletes.

When the Board of Trustees met on
January 16, 1957, those recommendations

 

WE&L football team.

 

 

were on the agenda. The Trustees ex-
pressed thanks for such keen interest but
reaffirmed their 1954 position. The
minutes of that meeting also record this
entry:

‘On motion, the appointment of
William A. Chipley, head coach of foot-
ball, was extended to cover the present
academic year.”’

What in the world did that mean?
Gaines said he had gone to the Board to
recommend that Chipley be given another
year. But Trustees’ ears had been sought
by others, among them former football
players who thought they knew a well-
coached team when they saw one.

It put Gaines squarely on the spot,
personally in his close relationship with
Chipley, and officially as the head of a
college that said so loudly, ‘‘Hey, we’re
playing for fun! No pressure to win!
We’re not like these other schools!’’

On January 29, 1957, Gaines wrote to
Bill Chipley: ‘‘In its session last Satur-
day, the Board of Trustees extended your
present appointment to cover this
academic session of 1956-57, and thus
brought that appointment in line with the
usual appointments for limited periods.
With best wishes always... .”’

It wasn’t until almost a month later,
that Chipley realized he’d been fired.
When he appeared in Gaines’ office for
an explanation, he was told that the
Board found him an ineffective teacher
of football, but nonetheless hoped that
he would stay on and help teach physical
education. An angry and bitter man went
back to Doremus Gymnasium and wrote
a letter that wasn’t difficult to under-
stand at all. Chipley said he would remain
only as long as it took him to find
another job or until September 1,
whichever came first.

The sports press had a good time with
the news of Chipley’s dismissal. The
situation never looked darker. Where
would we find another coach who’d be
willing to come here under such clouded
circumstances?

A new coach was found: Lee M.
McLaughlin, the very successful head
coach and athletic director at Episcopal
High School in Alexandria. After two
seasons his record (1-15) was worse than

and we did have football bes

In the pages which have preceded this section we
have collected pictures of familiar places and faces
that will always serve to remind us of Washington
and Lee. However, those of us who have been a part

' of W&L during this 1954-55 vear have been con-
stantly reminded of an event that those outside our

confines will not soon let us forget.

5 St
“ 7 a

-.

© Af) \
a LF "43 Ty

Ss | Y

   
    

From the 1955 Calyx

Chipley’s. But clearly things had chang-
ed, for the better.

Walter Mitty lives within me. On fall
mornings in 1959 I’d let my mind wander
as I shaved and showered for work. My
favorite scenario involved some new
names on the W&L roster—Steve Suttle,
Ned Hobbs, Tommy Goodwin, Terry
Fohs, Jim Hickey, Barton Dick. Not this
year, but maybe next, or the one after
that, we’d go undefeated; Sports II-
lustrated would write a feature on us;
we’d be the best small college team of
all.

In 1961, Sports Illustrated did make
the Generals its lead story in mid-

On August Sth, 1954, a letter was mailed to the
alumni and students, by the President of this institu-
tion, oficially confirming many rumors regarding a
drastic change in Washington and Lee’s athletic
policy. The Board of Trustees had taken their stand
and we were to return to an ideal amateur status.
the nature of which few of us had ever had the oppor-

tunity to experience.

1|---Safford. 2-—-Keidel. 3--Hertafeld, 4---Poole, 5-
Perryman, 6-—-Gitter, 7-—Keith, &-—-Holeombe, 9-—-Brown,
10---Callaway. 11---Doyle, 12—-Stine, 13-—-Perry. 14—-
Holland, 15-—-Russell, 16---Platt, 17-—-Pate. 18-—Craw-
ford, 19---Jackson, 20---Peden, 21-—-McThenia, 22-—-Chis-
holm, 23-—-Campbell, 24--Laskey, 25--Pipkin. 26
Mayoza. 27-—-Kauffman, 28-——-Johnson. 29-—Salsbury.

30---Mahonev, 31-—-Heina.

October. When the undefeated season
was Over, the Washington Touchdown
Club recognized W&L as the nation’s
premier small college football team.

Gaines quit the presidency in 1959.
When Fred Cole came from Tulane as
the new president, there was a brief hope
among die-hards that he’d bring back
big-time football. Football wasn’t to be
his issue; racial integration was the ’60’s
controversy in which Cole was embroiled.
Student unrest and anti-establishment
sentiments drew criticism from many
alumni in the ’70s, and Bob Huntley
took the heat. Then came coeducation.

I wonder what’s next.

17

At one point during his 50th reunion in
Lexington last May, George Reynolds, ’34,
was chatting casually with a fellow
Washington and Lee alumnus when the in-
evitable question was posed.

‘*Tell me, George. What do you do
these days?’’ is the way the question was
put.

Reynolds cleared his throat and replied
rather sheepishly: ‘‘Well, I play a lot of
tennis.’”’

‘‘No, George. I mean what do you do?”’

Reynolds quickly changed the subject.
‘‘Somehow I couldn’t bring myself to ex-
plain that I’m a 71-year-old tennis bum,”’
says Reynolds with a grin.

But the truth is that what Reynolds does
these days is play tennis. And he does that
better than almost anybody his age in the
United States, or in the world for that
matter.

Even as he is relating that reunion story,
Reynolds is between tennis matches. He

 

George Reynolds in 1934

by Jeffery Hanna

A
Super
‘Super

Senior’

Tennis Stardom
Arrives Late
For George Reynolds,
Class of ’34

and his wife, Barbara, are catching a hur-
ried lunch in the grill of the Army-Navy
Country Club in Arlington, Va., the site of
the United States Tennis Association’s 1984
Clay Court Championships.

No, you won’t find John McEnroe or
Jimmy Connors on the schedule for the
Arlington tournament. In order to qualify
for the field in this national tournament,
players must satisfy one criterion: they
must be at least 70 years old.

Already this day, Reynolds has scored a
6-3, 6-2, victory over Tom King of Atlanta,
Ga., in the third round of the tournament.
A doubles match is next on the schedule.
Before the day is over, Reynolds will have
played six sets of tennis—a rather am-
bitious schedule, but more the rule than the
exception.

Just like McEnroe, Connors, and their
cohorts, Reynolds plays on the tennis cir-
cuit, moving from club to club each week
for another tournament. Out of eight weeks
in August and September, he was on the

 

George Reynolds in 1984

road for seven, competing on grass courts
in Rhode Island and Massachusetts, then
on clay courts in Virginia and then back to
grass courts in Rhode Island. Some years
the tour has taken Reynolds all the way to
the West Coast.

‘*T don’t think most people understand
how all-absorbing the tennis tour is for
us,’’ says Barbara, who accompanies her
husband to most of the tournaments. ‘‘We
enjoy other things, of course. But this is
pretty much full time.’’

Reynolds shares some other common
ground with McEnroe and Connors. Like
the two of them, he wins more often than
not. That is why he has been ranked No. 3
in singles and No. 1 in doubles in the
United States at various times during the
last 10 years. That is also why he has played
for the United States on two international
cup teams. And keep in mind: he has
achieved all of this at an age when many of
his contemporaries would find lacing up
their sneakers sufficiently demanding.

 

 

18

 

By his own admission, George Reynolds
was only an average tennis player when he
served as captain of the Washington and
Lee varsity team in 1934, his senior year.

**1’d started playing when I was eight
years old growing up in Kingston, Pa.,’’ he
says. ‘‘I wound up at W&L because the
history and tradition of the school appealed
to me and to my family. It certainly had
nothing to do with tennis.

**In fact, I really wasn’t a very good
player at W&L. I didn’t play in the national
intercollegiate championships or any of the
major college tournaments. Tennis wasn’t a
very big deal at W&L then. It was in-
teresting that we had several excellent ten-
nis players in school at that time, but they
were also golfers. And the golf team took a
big, beautiful trip somewhere during the
spring, so they all went out for golf.’’

The W&L tennis coach in those days
was Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, known less for
his acumen as a tennis player than as the
historian who wrote General Lee’s College.
‘*I’d say he was more a sponsor than a
coach,’’ notes Reynolds. ‘‘We only played
a few matches every year, and there wasn’t
much coaching to be done.”’

After he graduated from W&L witha
degree in chemistry, Reynolds was too busy
trying to find a job to play much tennis. ‘‘It
was the height of the depression. I couldn’t
afford to spend time playing.’’ Then he was
drafted and spent five years in the Army
during World War II—not exactly the best
way to improve your tennis game, either.

In fact, he went 12 years without so
much as picking up a tennis racquet. But
once he did return to the game, around
1946 when he moved to the Camden, N.J.,
area, Reynolds quickly began to make up
for lost time.

‘**] became a genuine tennis fanatic,’’ he
says. “‘I played every day and was very ac-
tive in various tennis organizations, in-
cluding a term as president of the New
Jersey Tennis Association.’’

Still, it was another 33 years before
Reynolds really hit his stride in tennis—in
part, he insists, because so many of his con-
temporaries lost their strides.

In 1979 Reynolds retired from his posi-
tion in area development with the Public
Service Gas & Electric Co. of New Jersey.
About the same time, he became eligible to
compete in the so-called ‘‘Super Senior”’
divisions of the United States Tennis
Association—divisions for players 65 and
over. Before too long, he had become
something of a star on the ‘‘Super Senior’’
circuit.

‘*T had played in senior tournaments
from the time I was 45, but I started doing
my best when I was 65,’’ says Reynolds,

 

 

Serving a winner in the National Clay Court Championships

who divides his time between homes in
Haddonfield, N.J., and Pompano Beach,
Fla., when not on the tour. ‘‘I’m not sure
that it was so much a matter of my improv-
ing my game as it was others dropping out.
I noticed that the caliber of play had slowed
an awful lot at that time. My legs were still
pretty strong. I found I was one of the more
mobile 65-year-old players competing in the
tournaments. And I did pretty well in that
first year. I was ranked No. 3 in the
country.’’

That ranking earned Reynolds a spot on
the United States’ first Britannia Cup
team—the 6S-and-over players’ version of
the Davis Cup. Competing at the Queen’s
Club in London against teams from 11
other countries, Reynolds and his U.S.
teammates won the inaugural competition
by defeating Great Britain, 3-0.

‘*It was a new and exciting experience
for me,’’ says Reynolds, who won one of
the singles matches for the U.S. team. ‘‘To
be on the court and have the umpire an-
nounce the score, ‘30-love, United States’

  

gives you quite a thrill.’’

Reynolds remained among the top 10
players in the country during the next five
years. Then, in 1982, he turned 70 and
became eligible for the next age-group
category, the 70 and overs. Once again he
quickly moved to the top of the national
ladder. 1

As one of the youngsters in the 70-and-
over division that first year, Reynolds was
ranked No. 3 in singles and, with partner
Harry Hoffmann of Philadelphia, was No.
1 in doubles. He and Hoffman won two of
the four national championships. And
again he earned a place on an international
team. This time it was the Crawford Cup,
which is similar to the Britannia Cup but
is for players 70 and over.

In June of 1983 Reynolds and three
United States teammates journeyed to
Brand, Austria, where they defeated
Sweden, 3-0, to win the first Crawford
Cup.

That means Reynolds is unbeaten in in-
ternational cup competition—not even

 

 

19

ES Ce LO TE TR, AOR aa

‘| Wd,

Reynolds with former Wimbledon

McEnroe or Connors can make that claim.
xk * *

Tennis has changed dramatically since
those days 50 years ago when George
Reynolds captained Washington and Lee’s
varsity. Pants are short; tennis balls are
yellow; and many racquets look suspicious-
ly like snowshoes.

The object of the game hasn’t changed,
of course. But for Reynolds and his
counterparts on the ‘‘Super Seniors’’ tour,
the nature of the game takes on a slightly
different complexion these days. It isa
more cerebral sport which places a
premium on guile.

‘*It’s the same game,”’ says Reynolds.
‘*Just a different version.’’

For instance, the most effective weapon
in any player’s arsenal is not a 100-mile-an-
hour serve. Rather it is a mile-an-hour drop
shot—the kind that twists over the net, then
stops almost dead on the other side.

**Someone in Florida wrote a
newspaper article about one of our tour-
naments and the headline was ‘The Day of
the Drop Shot,’ ’’ Reynolds says, grinning.
**If you haven’t noticed, a lot of these
fellows aren’t exactly sprinters any more.
You’ll see lots of knee braces and ace ban-
dages at our tournaments.

‘**The drop shot is the most important
shot a player can have on this level. I
wouldn’t have used that shot nearly as
much 50 years ago because my opponents
then would usually be able to dash into the
net and get the ball back, often for a win-
ner. If you hit the drop shot right, not

doubles champion Gardner Mulloy

    

many of the players on this tour will be able
to get to the ball.”’

For Reynolds, tactics have replaced
power; strategy has replaced reflexes.

‘*Those of us on the 70-and-over tour
used to have the speed and power and
athletic ability to overcome our mental
mistakes on the court,’’ he explains. ‘‘Now
we can’t do that. You don’t have to hit the
ball that hard so long as you can put it
where you want it most of the time. And
you have to develop a sense of anticipation
so that you’re moving before the other
player hits the ball.”’

One of the most pleasant differences
between the ‘‘Super Seniors’’ and the more
familiar professional game is that spec-
tators are not subjected to racquet-tossing,
lineman-cursing, umpire-baiting tantrums.

The more sportsmanlike deportment of
the ‘‘Super Senior’’ division is owing, in
part at least, to the fact that the players
aren’t competing for thousands of dollars
at every tournament. In fact, Reynolds and
the others pay all their own expenses
wherever they play, including Europe.
There are no under-the-table payments in
‘Super Seniors’’ tennis (no over-the-table
payments, for that matter.) There are
trophies. And there is the prestige and
satisfaction that come from being ranked
among the top players in your age group in
the country.

‘*The players in this age group don’t
think tennis is the most important thing in
the world,’’ Reynolds says. ‘‘When you’re
younger, you’re out for blood and that’s all

 

there is to it. If you lose, you think the
world has ended.

‘*At this age, you know that’s not the
case. You’ll beat your brains out to win.
But when it’s over, it’s over. If you lose, it
doesn’t ruin your whole day—part of the
day, maybe; but not the whole day.”’

None of this is to suggest that these are
not real competitors. They are that. While
Reynolds is a comparative late-bloomer on
the national tennis scene, many of the
**Super Senior’’ tour regulars were tour
regulars years ago.

A prime example is Gardner Mulloy. In
1952, Mulloy was the country’s No.
l-ranked singles player. He wona
Wimbledon doubles championship in 1957
and won four U.S. doubles titles. Now he is
71 and a ‘‘Super Senior.’’ In fact, it was
Mulloy who defeated Reynolds in the
championship match of the National Grass
Court Championships in Providence, R.I.
And it was Mulloy who, a week later,
ousted Reynolds in the quarterfinals of the
National Clay Court Championships at
Arlington.

**It’s certainly no disgrace for me to lose
to a player as good as Gardner Mulloy,’’
says Reynolds. ‘‘It’s just a pleasure for me
to be able to play him.

**T don’t know how to express it in
degrees, but we are very competitive,’’ says
Reynolds. ‘‘We may not have the legs or
the strength we used to have. We still have
the competitiveness.”’

That is one thing Reynolds will pro-
bably never lose—especially now that he
has had a taste of success on the national,
even international, level.

*‘One of the biggest kicks I’ve gotten in
tennis was when I was ranked No. 3 my
first year in the 65-and-overs,”’ says
Reynolds. ‘‘I think all the players enjoy
having that number before their name in
the rankings.

‘**T know one senior player who got his
ranking, and it was down around No. 90 or
so. His son was kidding him about being
ranked that low, and this player replied,
‘Well, at least 7’m ranked.’ It means
something to us.’’

With justifiable pride, Reynolds
observes that most of his non-tennis-
playing contemporaries are amazed that he
is as active as he is.

But if Reynolds has his way, their
amazement will only increase in the years
ahead. He’s not ready to rest on his laurels.
He’s still got goals to reach. One goal
especially.

Explains Reynolds with a sly grin:
‘*When I’m 90, I hope to be No. 1.”’

And he’s not kidding.

 

 

 

20

ane iterate lait tient iittala eli a

 

Gazette

CG Coeducation Steering Committee Is Appointed

 

The Coeducation Steering Committee has begun its work under the leadership of Associate Dean
Pamela Simpson (left). Others on the committee include law professor Andrew W. McThenia Jr.,
58, °63L (center) and junior Michael Black of Shreveport, La.

 

Dean Simpson to head W&L
Coed Steering Committee

 

Pamela H. Simpson, Associate Dean
of the College (of arts and sciences) at
Washington and Lee University, has been
appointed to chair the University’s
Coeducation Steering Committee.

The 13-member committee is compos-
ed of W&L faculty, administrators, and
students from both the undergraduate
divisions and the law school.

Appointed by Washington and Lee
President John D. Wilson, the Coeduca-
tion Steering Committee has been asked
to provide the University community with
suggestions on all matters associated with
the past summer’s decision to admit
women to undergraduate study beginning
in the fall of 1985.

In addition to Simpson, the commit-
tee members are Michael J. Black, a
W&L junior from Shreveport, La.; Jean
C. Dunbar, assistant professor of
English; Lee Doane, a second-year law
student from Lexington; Joseph
Goldsten, professor of administration;
Lee M. Hollis, a W&L junior from Mem-
phis; H. Robert Huntley, associate dean
of students; William D. McHenry, direc-

tor of athletics; Andrew W. McThenia
Jr., professor of law; Nancy A.

Margand, assistant professor of
psychology; Frank A. Parsons, executive
assistant to the president; Anita Williams,
library assistant for reference and public
services; and, Christopher H. Williams, a
W&L senior from Newark, Del.

In his charge to the committee,
Wilson said the group’s main work ‘‘will
be to insure the happy and successful in-
duction of young women into our col-
legiate life by anticipating new oppor-
tunities we should seize upon and poten-
tial problems we should avoid if we
can.

He added that the committee will be
encouraged ‘‘to use the experience of
other institutions of (W&L’s) size and
character which have undertaken similar
changes.’’

Wilson provided the committee with a
series Of planning assumptions within
which it will work. Those assumptions in-
clude a 10-year initial planning period
during which the size of the
undergraduate student body will increase
to about 1500 students—1000 men and
500 women—by 1995. The University,
added Wilson, will continue its current
policy of admitting transfer students,

considering both men and women
transfer applicants within the limited
number of places usually available to
transfers.

He also noted that the committee
should anticipate the need to increase the
residential capacity but should not adopt
a policy that mandates on-campus
residence beyond the freshman year.

Further, the president made specific
reference to adopting a strong program
of athletics for women ‘‘to parallel, in
appropriate ways, our program for
men.’’ He added that continuing efforts
to address ways of bringing im-
provements to the fraternity system will
be especially important during the
transition.

Among specific subjects that the com-
mittee will address will be admissions
policies and procedures, residential ac-
commodations, University health and
counseling services, athletic program
development, dining hall operations, stu-
dent organization, faculty and staff ap-
pointments, campus security, and campus
renovations.

The Coeducation Steering Commit-
tee’s reports on specific topics will be
directed to the appropriate standing com-
mittee of the W&L board of trustees for
appropriate action.

Simpson has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1973.

A graduate of Gettysburg College, she
received her master’s degree in art history
from the University of Missouri and her
Ph.D. in art history from the University
of Delaware.

She was named Assistant Dean of the
College, W&L’s arts and sciences divi-
sion, in 1981 and was elevated to
Associate Dean in 1983. In addition to
her administrative duties, Simpson con-
tinues to teach courses in art history at
WL.

 

Thomas Carter Prize
established

 

Washington and Lee has received a
bequest from the estate of Mrs. Kathleen
T. Carter of Martinsville, Va., to
establish a prize in literary criticism in

2)

 

he Gazette

honor of her son, the late Thomas H.
Carter, °54.

The Thomas Carter Prize in Literary
Criticism will be awarded annually to the
best piece of literary criticism published
in Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’s
literary magazine.

While a student at Washington and
Lee, Carter served as one of the first
editors of Shenandoah and was chiefly
responsible for obtaining contributions to
the young magazine from such
distinguished writers as Wallace Stevens,
Ezra Pound, Marshall McLuhan, Wyn-
dham Lewis, Flannery O’Connor, and
John Crowe Ransom.

Carter was himself a gifted writer and
was named a Kenyon Review Fellow in
Criticism. After his graduation from
W&L, Carter returned to his hometown
of Martinsville to teach at Martinsville
High School and at what was then the
Patrick Henry Branch of the University
of Virginia.

In 1965, Washington and Lee received
a valuable collection of books,
manuscripts, and letters dealing with
many contempoary authors from the
estate of Carter, who died in 1963.

Shenandoah is published quarterly
and contains works by noted authors in
the fields of prose, fiction, poetry, and
criticism. Shenandoah Editor James Boat-
wright, professor of English at W&L, will
select the Carter Prize winner each year.

 

New W&L faculty members
exhibit international flavor

 

A new dean of the College and 14
new undergraduate teachers began their
duties when Washington and Lee opened
its 1984-85 academic year in September.

The W&L School of Law, which
opened classes almost a month earlier,
also had several new faces in Lewis
Hall—a new assistant dean, a new
associate librarian, and a visiting
associate professor.

Six of the newly-appointed faculty
members are natives of foreign countries
while two others came to W&L from
teaching assignments abroad.

The new dean of the College (of arts
and sciences) is John W. Elrod, whose
appointment was announced last year.
Elrod was previously chairman of the
department of philosophy at lowa State
University.

Le

 

        

se

New faculty this year

include: (first row, from left) Adoracion Campis, romance languages;

 

 

     

Kathy Jo Koberstein, romances languages; Eung Chun Cho, math; Greta McCaughrin, Russian;
Arthur J. Gumenik, accounting; James P. Warren, English; (second row, from left) Shizuka
Sakagami, Japanese; J. Kevin Green, accounting; Timothy Gaylard, music; Richard G. Marks,
religion; (third row, from left) Athornia Steele, law; Patricia M. Walther, assistant law dean; Lt.
Col. Luke B. Ferguson, military science; Maj. Michael Cullen, military science; S. W. Hahn,
math; and, R. Lee Warthen, law library; (fourth row, from left) John W. Elrod, dean of the
College; and, Theodore J. Sjoerdsma, computer science.

New teachers joining the under-
graduate faculty were:

e Adoracion Campis, assistant pro-
fessor of romance languages. A native of
Puerto Rico, she received the B.A. and
M.A. degrees from the State University
of New York at Stony Brook and the
M.Phil. from Columbia University where
she is currently working on her Ph.D.
She is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
was a President’s Fellow at Columbia in
1978.

e Eung Chun Cho, assistant pro-
fessor of mathemathics. He is a native of
Seoul, Korea, and a graduate of Seoul
University from which he also received
his M.S. in mathematics. He received his
Ph.D. from Rutgers. He is a member of
the American Mathematical Society and
the Korean Mathematical Society.

e Michael F. Cullen, assistant pro-
fessor of military science. He is a
graduate of the University of Arizona
and has come to the W&L Army ROTC
program from Fort Sill, Okla., where he
was a battery commander and operations
officer.

e Timothy Gaylard, assistant pro-
fessor of music. He was born in Ottawa,
Canada, and received both a B.A. in
mathematics and a B.Mus. in music from
Carleton University of Ottawa. He receiv-
ed the M.A. and M.Phil degrees in

musicology from Columbia University.
He is a member of the American
Musicological Society and the College
Music Society. He will teach piano in ad-
dition to music appreciation and history
courses.

e J. Kevin Green, associate professor
of accounting. He is a native of Suffolk,
England, and received his B.A. from the
University of Durham, England. He
received an M.A. in diplomacy and in-
ternational commerce from the University
of Kentucky and a Ph.D. in economics
from the University of Virginia. He
previously taught at the University of the
South for 11 years and at East Carolina
University where he was associate pro-
fessor of accounting from 1981 to the
present. He is a member of the American
Accounting Association and the National
Association of Accountants.

e Arthur J. Gumenik, assistant pro-
fessor of accounting. A native of
Newark, N.J. He received the bachelor of
arts degree from Queens College of the
City University of New York and both
the M.S. and the M.A.T. from the
University of Virginia. He was most
recently employed as an agent for the In-
ternal Revenue Service.

e S. Wilfred Hahn, visiting lecturer
in mathematics. He received the A.B.
from Lenoir Rhyne College and the M.A.

and Ph.D. degrees from Duke. A native
of Columbia, S.C., he has previously
taught for 25 years at Wittenberg Univer-
sity. He also taught at the University of
Michigan, Winthrop College, Hampden-
Sydney, and Wake Forest, where he
taught last year as a visiting professor.
He is a member of the Mathematics
Association of America, the American
Mathematical Society, and the Ohio
Academy of Science.

e Kathy Jo Koberstein, assistant pro-
fessor of romance languages. She was
born in Shorewood, Wis., and received
the B.A. degree from Carroll College in
Wisconsin and the M.A. from Mid-
dlebury College. She is currently working
on the Ph.D. at the University of
Wisconsin. She has previously taught at
Valparaiso University and Wofford Col-
lege. She is a member of the Modern
Language Association and the American
Council of Teaching of Foreign
Languages.

e Greta McCaughrin, instructor in
Russian. She was born in Barnaul in the
Soviet Union. She received the B.A. from
the University of Windsor in Canada and
the M.A. in Russian language from
Wayne State University where she was an
instructor and researcher in the Russian
department.

e Richard G. Marks, assistant pro-
fessor of religion. He came to
Washington and Lee from the graduate
program of religious studies at Mahidol
University in Thailand. He is a 1967
graduate of Raymond College of the
University of the Pacific with an M.A.
from Hebrew Union College, and a
PhD. trom UCLA.

e Shizuka Sakagama, instructor in
Japanese. is a native of Tokyo. She
graduated from the M.A.T. program at
the Experiment in International Living’s
School for International Training in Brat-
tleboro, Vi. Sie is currently a Pa.D. can-
didate in linguistics at the University of
Michigan. She taught previously at Wit-
tenberg University.

e Theodore J. Sjoerdsma, professor
of computer science and head of the
computer science department. He was
previously chairman of the computer
science department at the University of
lowa. A native of Grand Rapids, Mich.,
he received his A.B. from Calvin College,
his M.S. from Michigan State, and his
Ph.D. from the University of lowa.

e James P. Warren, assistant pro-
fessor of English. He received his B.A.

from Auburn University and his M.A.
and Ph.D. from Yale. A native of Bryan,
Texas, he has taught for the past two
years at the University of Geneva in
Switzerland. He is a member of the
Modern Language Association and the
Conference on College Composition and
Communication.

e Athornia Steele, visiting associate
professor of law. He is an associate pro-
fessor of law at Capital University in
Columbus, Ohio. He received both his
undergraduate and law degrees from
Capital and was previously an assistant
attorney general in the office of the Ohio
Attorney General.

e Patricia M. Walther, assistant dean
of the School of Law. A 1983 W&L law
graduate, she will be concentrating
primarily on admissions and financial
aid. She received her undergraduate
degree from Duke University and was
staff counsel for the National Labor
Relations Board prior to returning to the
W&L law school.

e R. Lee Warthen, associate law
librarian. He is a Nebraska native. He
earned the B.A., M.A., library science,
and law degrees from Brigham Young
University and was on the staff of the
Brigham Young Law Library for six
years. He is a member of the American
Association of Law Libraries.

 

Special visitor this semester
in W&L School of Law

 

A legal counselor in the Council of

Dr. Bernard Schloh (left) with W&L Law School Dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.

Ministers of the European Communities
has been a visiting professor in
Washington and Lee’s School of Law for
five weeks during the fall semester.

Dr. Bernhard Schloh has taught a
one-credit course in European Communi-
ty Law at W&L.

In addition to his position with the
European Communities, Schloh is a pro-
fessor at the Free University of Brussels.

A native of Hamburg, Schloh has
been a visiting professor at the University
of Georgia School of Law on three
separate occasions and visited the W&L
law school at the invitation of Dean
Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. and the law
faculty.

In his capacity as legal counselor,
Schloh has argued about 30 cases before
the Court of Justice of the European
Communities. He has pleaded cases in
five languages—German, English, French,
Italian, and Dutch. Since 1978, he has
dealt primarily with legal problems of
agricultural policy, fisheries policy, and
the United Nations Law of the Sea
Conference.

While at W&L, Schloh conducted a
symposium for members of the law facul-
ty on the breaking down of trade barriers
within the European Communities.

‘‘Dr. Schloh’s presence provided both
our students and faculty with a splendid
opportunity to explore new areas of inter-
national law,’’ said Kirgis.

The Council of Ministers of the Euro-
pean Communities consists of represen-
tatives of the executive bodies of all the
member states.

 

Zo

a Gazette

 

Ferguson heads ROTC

 

Lt. Col. Luke B. Ferguson has been
appointed head of Washington and Lee’s
Army ROTC program and professor of
military science at the University.

Ferguson, a U.S. Army infantry of-
ficer, succeeds Lt. Col. David F. Fowler
Jr., who retired from the Army in May.

A native of South Boston, Va.,
Ferguson earned the bachelor of science
degree in psychology from Campbell
University and a master’s degree in
counseling from George Peabody College
of Vanderbilt University. He is a
graduate of the Armed Forces Staff Col-
lege and the Army’s Infantry and Special
Forces schools.

His military service has included com-
mand and staff assignments during a tour
of Alaska, two tours in Vietnam and
Germany as well as two tours in the
United States.

Prior to his assignment to Washington
and Lee, Ferguson was the special opera-
tions plans and operations officer for the
Rapid Deployment Joint Task Force and
Readiness Command stationed at MacDill
Air Force Base in Tampa, Fla.

 

Record number of women in
first-year law class

 

A record number of women and an
unusually high number of Virginia
residents are included among the 122
first-year students in Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law.

According to figures compiled by the
W&L law school, this year’s entering
students come from 22 different states
and 71 different undergraduate
institutions.

Women comprise 41 percent of the
first-year class, and that represents the
highest percentage of women in a single
law class since the University’s law school
became coeducational in 1972.

‘*We really have no explanation for
the increase in the number of women in
this year’s class,’’ said W&L law school
dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. ‘‘Our efforts
to attract women students in this class
were essentially the same as in previous
years.

“‘The percentage of women in the
class will bring us closer to the national
average for law schools than we have

24

been in the past. The national average
has been around 35 percent while women
comprised about 31 percent of our entire
student body last year.’’

Kirgis doubts that this summer’s deci-
sion in favor of coeducation in the
University’s undergraduate divisions had
any effect on the recruitment of women
for the current first-year law class.

On the other hand, Kirgis notes that
the law school will benefit from the
presence of undergraduate women on the
W&L campus beginning in the fall of
1985.

‘‘The change will help in two
respects,’’ said Kirgis. ‘‘First, it will tend
to bring the law school into the
mainstream of the University. Though
there are bound to be differences between
the divisions simply because of the nature
of the schools, those differences had been
magnified by the fact that we were
coeducational while the rest of the
University was all-male. Certainly our
women students felt more isolated in such
an environment.

““Secondly, I believe the change will
help us in our efforts to recruit top
students. Though I can’t prove it with
specific figures, I do think we have lost
some prospective students, both male and
female, who did not think they would be
comfortable in the environment of a
predominately male university.’’

There are 42 Virginians in the first-
year law class. Although Virginia normal-
ly has the highest representation of
students in the law school’s student body,
the number in the entering class is
unusually large.

After Virginia, the next highest
representation from a single state is New
York with 12 students followed by West
Virginia with nine.

The highest representation from a
single undergraduate institution is the
University of Virginia with 17 graduates
represented in the W&L first-year class.

Next comes Washington and Lee with
10 followed by Virginia Tech with five,
the University of Alabama and Duke
with four each, and Smith and Vanderbilt
with three each.

As has been the case in recent years,
the law school continues to attract older,
non-traditional students, many of whom
have established careers in fields other
than law.

‘‘That has been a trend in law school
for several years,’’ notes Kirgis. ‘‘We are

 

Work continues on the interior of the new stu-
dent pavilion being constructed behind Lewis
Hall. Scheduled to open in October, the struc-
ture will be used by various campus organiza-
tions for major social functions. The building
will have a capacity of between 1,000 and
1,200 people and will feature a special com-
position floor, making it equally functional for
foul-weather practice by athletic teams and
student dances and concerts.

not as likely to get these career-changers
as urban universities where the students
are often able to continue their careers
while pursuing the law degree, but we do
continue to get some and that contributes
to the diversity that we think is so
valuable in a class.’’

Certainly, this year’s class can boast
considerable diversity. Included among
the first-year students are a commercial
fisherman who is also the co-founder of
an environmental organization; a Ph.D.
who taught all grades in a one-room
schoolhouse before teaching college
English; a horticulturalist; a social
worker who specialized in the prevention
of child abuse; and, an administrator for
a South Texas organization which
distributes food to the needy.

The academic qualifications of the
entering students are nearly identical to
the past year’s students, both in terms of
their scores the standardized law school
admissions test and their college grade-
point averages.

Total enrollment in the W&L law
school this year will be 365.

aaa i —itisisizOCWwCWC#CiCONSCN¥CSNN

 

 

Hodges elected
Hastings Center Fellow

 

Louis W. Hodges, professor of
religion at Washington and Lee Universi-
ty and director of the University’s pro-
gram in applied ethics, has been elected a
fellow of The Hastings Center, a New
York-based ‘‘think-tank’’ specializing in
issues of ethics and society.

Founded in 1969, The Hastings
Center was created chiefly to deal with
issues in medical ethics and is primarily
responsible for the rapid development of
medical ethics instruction in American
medical schools.

The Hastings Center no longer deals
exclusively with medical ethics but is now
involved with the study of applied ethics
in various other professions, including
journalism, business, the military, and
law.

Hodges will be one of about 100
Hastings Center Fellows, who function in
an advisory capacity, determining what
projects the center will undertake and
participating in those projects. The
Hastings Center has a full-time executive
staff which is involved in research and
publishing.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1960, Hodges has taught in several
Hastings Center workshops which are
held throughout the country and are
designed primarily for teachers of ethics.

In addition to such workshops and
conferences, the Hastings Center works
to stimulate research and writing in the
fields of applied ethics and publishes a
quarterly report and occasional books in
the field.

Since its inception in 1974, Hodges
has directed Washington and Lee’s
distinctive program in applied ethics,
‘Society and the Professions,’’ which is
for pre-professional undergraduate
students in business, journalism, law, and
medicine.

Hodges is the co-author of a 1969
volume entitled The Christian and His
Decisions, An Introduction to Christian
Ethics. He has also written numerous ar-
ticles on applied ethics for scholarly
publications. He has also participated in
several workshops on applied ethics, in-
cluding a session on journalism ethics
with ABC-TV affiliate station news
directors.

Hodges received his bachelor of arts

degree from Millsaps College and both
his bachelor of divinity degree and Ph.D.
from Duke University.

 

Howe Scholarship established
via Pooled Income Fund

 

A long-time wish was recently fulfilled
by Mr. and Mrs. James L. Howe Jr. of
Harrionsburg, Va., in the future
establishment of the James Lewis Howe
Sr., Jr., lil, [V Scholarship at
Washington and Lee.

The gift is in honor of the senior
Howe—Dr. James L. ‘‘Daddy’’ Howe,
whose teaching career in chemistry at
Washington and Lee spanned 44 years
from 1894 to 1938 when he was named
professor emeritus, a title he held until
his death in 1955.

James L. Howe Jr., ’18, the co-donor
of the scholarship with his wife, Mrs.
Beatrice Howe, was born on the
Washington and Lee campus in the home
which is now the Reeves Center. He
spent his early childhood in Lexington
and has many fond memories of the local
citizenry. His teaching career began as a
missionary and chemistry professor at
Hang Chow Christian College on the
mainland of China in 1921. He left
China in 1937, the year in which the
Japanese entered North China, and
became an industrial chemist with Arthur
H. Thomas Company of Philadelphia un-
til his retirement in 1965.

Both Mr. and Mrs. Howe Jr. continue
to have a deep interest in China,
subscribing to Chinese newspapers and
reading them in the original language.

Their son, James L. Howe III, ’63L,
is in the legal department of the Norfolk
Southern Corporation in Roanoke. James
Howe IV is currently enrolled in a
master’s program at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University where his
specialty is urban planning.

Mr. and Mrs. Howe Jr. also have a
daughter, Marvine, who is an interna-
tional reporter with the New York Times.

The Howe Scholarship was set in mo-
tion last January when Mr. and Mrs.
Howe Jr. made an irrevocable transfer of
jointly-owned securites into the
Washington and Lee Pooled Income
Fund, which is managed by the United
Virginia Bank of Richmond as Trustee.
During the lifetime of Mrs. Howe, they
will receive quarterly payments from the

 

bank based upon their proportionate
share of the total yearly earnings of the
Fund, now in excess of $1.5 million.

Upon the demise of Mrs. Howe, an
amount of money equal to the then value
of their share in the total assets of the
Fund will be withdrawn from the Fund
and will become the absolute property of
Washington and Lee University for the
establishment of the James L. Howe Sr.,
Jr., If, 1'V Scholarship.

In as much as the gift to the Universi-
ty was made during their lifetime, the
Howes realized several tax advantages,
among which are no capital gains tax on
the transfer of the securities and an im-
mediate income tax charitable deduction
of 56.47 percent—the latter, of course,
being a function of the Howes’ ages.

As William C. Washburn, Associate
Director of Development at W&L, has
noted, the Howes have accomplished two
major purposes.

**All such thoughtful gifts mean a
brighter future for generations of
students, and the Howes are genuinely
happy at having accomplished a desire
they have harbored for many years,’’
says Washburn. ‘‘Washington and Lee is
forever grateful to the Howes.’’

 

379 freshmen enroll

 

The Washington and Lee Class of 1988
is composed of 379 students who come
from 38 states, six foreign countries, and
281 different secondary schools.

Nine of the incoming freshmen were
National Merit Finalists while 14 finished
first or second in their high school
graduating class. a

The University received a total of
1,502 applications for admission and of-
fered admission to 907 of those
applicants.

The ‘‘mean’’ Scholastic Aptitude Test
scores for the entering freshmen, ex-
cluding special categories, were 550 verbal
and 595 math. The scores of students in
the special categories, i.e. those who
received special consideration in the ad-
missions process, were 514 verbal and 564
math.

Fifty-seven percent of the class attend-
ed public or parochial high schools while
43 percent attended independent schools.

The largest single contingent of
freshmen comes from Virginia (83)
followed by Maryland (36), Georgia (26),

a

 

Le Gazette

New Jersey (23), Pennsylvania (20), and
New York (19).

 

W&L professor participates
in international conference

 

Washington and Lee University
psychology professor Leonard E. Jarrard
was one of the participants at a major
conference on memory dysfunctions held
in New York City in June.

The conference was sponsored by the
New York Academy of Sciences and in-
cluded researchers from around the world
who spent three days discussing memory
impairments. The object of the New
York conference was to assemble researchers
who are in different fields and have
many common interests but who do not
generally interact with each other.

Specifically, the conference was
designed to bring together three different
groups of scientists—those involved in
basic research who are attempting to
devise an animal model of Alzheimer’s
disease, scientists who are working with
humans on memory dysfunction, and
researchers concerned with developing
drugs to help combat memory
impairments.

Jarrard delivered a paper that
reported on research he and a team of
scientists at Walter Reed Army Institute
for Research had conducted, using
surgical and behavorial testing procedures
developed by Jarrard during his continu-
ing research into a segment of the brain
called the hippocampus.

The research had attempted to create
an animal model of Alzheimer’s disease
by using a chemical to damage selectively
that portion of the brain scientists believe
is affected by the disease.

‘“In fact, the compound that we used
did not create the animal model we were
looking for,’’ said Jarrard. ‘‘But the ex-
periments were important in that they
eliminated one of the chemical com-
pounds being examined and also in terms
of the surgical and behavorial testing pro-
cedures we used.

‘*As in most problems in science, the
final solution will come only after a con-
siderable amount of basic research using
different approaches and more and more
sophisticated techniques.”’

Jarrard added that many participants
in the conference were optimistic about

26

finding a way to treat Alzheimer’s
disease.

‘‘The general impression I had from
the conference was that people are feeling
more and more confident that they will
be successful in devising a drug that will
combat Alzheimer’s disease,’’ Jarrard
said.

The proceedings of the conference will
be published in a book that is to appear
early in 1985.

Jarrard has been head of the depart-
ment of psychology at Washington and
Lee since 1971 and has been supported in
his research into the hippocampus for the
past 17 years by grants from the National
Science Foundation.

 

Militants teach
Elderhostel a lesson

 

Washington and Lee University
politics professor Craig McCaughrin pro-
bably never realized just how dangerous
an occupation teaching can be.

On Friday morning McCaughrin was
about to conclude his week-long course in
W&L’s Elderhostel program when 20
armed rebels burst through the door,
opened fire on him, took his students
hostage, and held a press conference at
gun point.

Actually, the bloody coup was all part
of McCaughrin’s plan to emphasize for
his students just how uncertain the state
of affairs is in a third world country.

And from all indications, the plan
worked.

The course was called ‘‘New States’’

and had an enrollment of about 50
Elderhostel participants.

During the week, the class had
established itself as the parliament of the
Washlean Republic, an imaginary
underdeveloped country. The mock
parliament had debated a variety of im-
portant issues during the week and had
constantly received threats from a group
of rebels who wrote notes warning of an
imminent rebellion.

That rebellion began with 15 minutes
remaining in the course when W&L
physical education professor Norm Lord
led the chanting rebels into the room and
fired a blank at McCaughrin, who
sprawled against the blackboard.

Armed with M-16 rifles borrowed
from the W&L ROTC unit, the rebels
surrounded the Elderhostel students as
W&L senior Todd Jones, attired in a
commando costume courtesy of the
Henry Street Playhouse production of
Peter Pan, and W&L librarian
Richard Grefe read statements on behalf
of the people’s rebellion.

Then members of the mock parlia-
ment were marched out of the room and
off to lunch.

‘‘The purpose of the revolution was
to underscore the extremely precarious
authority of any underdeveloped coun-
try’s policy-makers—almost irrespective
of their policy decisions—and hence their
perpetual liability to instant removal,”’
said McCaughrin.

In addition to W&L students and pro-
fessors, the rebels included participants in
the drama section of the Rockbridge Fine
Arts Workshop.

 

 

 

Ritz publishes
new bibliography

 

The first and only comprehensive
bibliography of American judicial pro-
ceedings before 1801 has recently been
published by a Washington and Lee
University law professor.

Wilfred J. Ritz is the compiler of the
480-page volume, published in July by
Greenwood Press of Westport, Conn.

Entitled American Judicial Pro-
ceedings First Printed Before 1801, the
book promises to be an important
reference document for legal historians,
judges, and practitioners as well as other
scholars of American history.

For the period before 1801, Ritz’s
bibliography lists every printed item, ex-
cept those found in newspapers, that
report on an actual judicial proceeding
within the territory of the United States,
as it existed in 1801.

Materials chronicling such significant
events as the Salem Witchcraft Trials of
1692 and Capt. John Quelch’s Trial for
Piracy in 1704 are among those listed in
the bibliography.

The bibliography is analytical in that
it is organized chronologically, by
geographical location, and by subject. A
complete list of the titles of everything
previously printed about American
judicial proceedings for any date before
1801 are easily obtainable from the
volume.

Included in the material are all com-
mon law judicial decisions, grand jury
charges, confessions and dying speeches
of convicted criminals, and sermons on
their executions. The compilations il-
lustrate the status of American common
law in colonial and post-revolutionary
America, allowing scholars of the period
to ascertain what common law materials
were available to the framers of the Con-
stitution, to the members of the First
Congress, and to the Supreme Court in
its first decade.

According to Ritz, the bibliography
has numerous objectives, including pro-
viding an indication of the extent of con-
temporary interest in and the availability
and accessibility of each publication. As
Ritz notes in his introduction, some of
the cases were ‘‘best-sellers’’ in terms of
the distribution of copies of the report as
opposed to more moderate interest in
other cases.

 

Cooper and Lybrand, talks with Washington and Lee Dean John Elrod (left) and English pro-
fessor George Ray during a conference on business and education. The conference in September
involved corporate leaders and W&L officials in two days of conversation.

Ritz began his research on the
bibliography in 1961. He was assisted in
the project by a series of Robert E. Lee
Research Grants for student assistance
and by John M. Glenn grants for sum-
mer travel and research.

A graduate of Washington and Lee,
Ritz earned the LL.B. degree from the
University of Richmond and both the
LL.M. and S.J.D. degrees from Harvard.

He joined the faculty of the W&L law
school in 1953 after previously serving as
assistant professor of law at Wake
Forest.

Ritz is the author of a 1983 volume
on Virginia’s automobile liability in-
surance. He is also the author of The
Uniform Commercial Code and the Com-
mercial Law of Virginia. He has con-
tributed articles to the Law Library Jour-
nal, the University of Richmond Law
Review the Washington and Lee Law
Review, and the Virginia Law Review,
among others.

 

President Wilson participates
in national seminar

volved the college presidents in a series of
seminar meetings.

The curriculum for the program was
designed by the Educational Leadership
Project, a program of the Christian A.
Johnson Endeavor Foundation, in
cooperation with The Association of
American Colleges.

During the week, the presidents ex-
amined a diverse selection of writings in
philosophy, literature, history and politics
as they pertained to the mandates of
leadership of an institution of higher
learning.

Included among the participants with
Wilson were the presidents of Tougaloo
College in Mississippi, Reed College in
Oregon, Colby College in Maine, Trinity
College in Massachusetts, Gettysburg
College in Pennsylvania, Bennington Col-
lege in Vermont, the University of San
Diego, Furman University, St. Mary’s
College of Maryland, Mills College of
California, Alma College in Michigan,
and Arkansas College.

Wilson has been president of
Washington and Lee since January 1983.

 

Washington and Lee University Presi-
dent John D. Wilson was one of 13 col-
lege and university presidents from
throughout the United States invited to
participate in a pilot program in intellec-
tual renewal sponsored by the Educa-
tional Leadership Project this summer.

Held in early August at Troutbeck, an
executive retreat in New York State, the
week-long conference was entitled
“‘Civility, Polity, and Learning,’’ and in-

 

Library displays English Atlas
belonging to Lee family

 

A unique folio atlas containing 92
rare 17th-century maps and sea charts of
North America, Europe, and the Middle
East is on display in the University
Library this fall.

The atlas was lent to the University
Library by Robert A. Mansbach of
Bethesda, Md., and is being displayed at

ai

 

& ee Gazette

 

Librarian Richard Oram and the English atlas

Washington and Lee because of the
book’s association with the Custis,
Washington, and Lee families.

Since the atlas is a composite volume,
it does not have a printed title page.
Various English cartographers and map
publishers are represented, including such
masters as Philip Lea (d. 1700) and his
collaborator John Overton (1640-1713),
publishers of maps of England and
Wales; John Thornton, engraver of
charts for the East India Company;
Joseph Moxon (1627-1700); and, Jan
Janssen (1588-1664), Dutch publisher and
cartographer.

According to Richard Oram, reference
and public services librarian, the history
of the atlas’ ownership makes the volume
even more interesting.

The original owner of the atlas was
the fourth John Custis, who affixed his
bookplate, dated September 1698, to the
volume.

““We know that the atlas was part of
the library of John Custis’ son, Daniel
Parke Custis, because it appears among
the 310 titles listed in an inventory of his
library,’’ notes Oram.

Daniel Parke Custis, a wealthy planta-
tion owner, is best known as the first
husband of Martha Washington.

‘‘After Martha’s second marriage, the
Custis books were divided between
George Washington and John Parke
(‘‘Jackie’’) Custis, Daniel Parke’s son,”’
says Oram. ‘‘A document in

28

Washington’s hand shows that the atlas
went to Jackie, and an entry for an
‘English Atlas’ appears in the 1782 inven-
tory of his estate. Jackie’s library would
have remained at Mount Vernon,
Washington’s home, since the former’s
son and heir, George Washington Parke
Custis, was only an infant in 1782 and
was brought up by the Washingtons.’’

When George Washington Parke
Custis took charge of his Arlington
estate in 1804, the atlas probably accom-
panied him, says Oram, who further
notes that Custis’ home at Arlington
House and his library became the proper-
ty of his daughter, Mary Custis, who had
married Robert E. Lee in 1831.

‘‘As Union troops approached Arl-
ington in May 1861, Mrs. Lee put some
of the most valuable Arlington books in-
to storage; others were simply left on the
shelves and were eventually confiscated
by the federal government,’’ Oram ex-
plains. ‘‘We believe that the atlas, along
with other valuable items of the Custis
and Washington families, was left for
safekeeping with John Green, hotel
manager and owner of an Alexandria
warehouse.’’

In a postwar gesture of gratitude for
the Greens’ services, Mrs. Lee presented
the book to an unidentified member of
the Green family not long before her
death in 1873, says Oram. The atlas re-
mained in the Green family’s possession
until 1983 when it was purchased at

auction.

‘‘In and of itself, this would be an ex-
tremely interesting and valuable volume,”’
said Oram. ‘‘Combined with the history
of ownership, especially as it relates to
Washington and Lee’s own history, the
atlas is an even more unusual item to
have on exhibit in our library.”’

Interesting, too, is the fact that por-
traits of all the book’s owners (up to
1872 when it was presented to the Green
family) are hanging in the Lee Chapel
museum on the Washington and Lee
campus.

 

Lewis wins
Burkan Competition

 

Peter B. Lewis, a third-year student in
the Washington and Lee School of Law
from Bloomington, Ind., has been named
the first prize winner in the 1984 Nathan
Burkan Memorial Competition at the
W&L law school.

Sponsored by the American Society of
Composers, Authors and Publishers, the
competition is designed to increase in-
terest in copyright law. The essays are on
any phase of copyright law.

Lewis’ winning essay was entitled
‘‘Fair Use in Commercial Advertising.”’

Bradford Frost Englander, a third-
year student from Los Angeles, placed se-
cond in the competition.

The essays of both Lewis and
Englander will now be entered in national
competition against essays submitted by
law schools from throughout the country.

 

Kirgis named to board

 

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the School
of Law at Washington and Lee, has been
elected to the board of editors of the
American Journal of International Law, the
leading international law journal in the
world.

A specialist in the field of international
law and the author of an important new
study in that area, Kirgis will be one of 24
practicing international lawyers and pro-
fessors of international law on the journal’s
board of editors.

Kirgis became dean of W&L’s law school
in August 1983. He previously had served as
director of the Frances Lewis Law Center in
the W&L law school, a position he held for
five years.

———rstrtsi‘CiC*#COCNOON(N(Owi;N(O;t;#téi(i«izizsiCNCNCOt;tC(CUiéiéiWiC.CW#....Uti...U.lC..twwtiwtCzzCNOUiiC.COC‘(‘(Ci«;i+#C.Cé#CCO.COt#(CN(®CWCwCCOtiNiCUOi#C.COCCOtCNCNCO”iéiCUCisi®iéCiNCON®iOCZCCOC®'C(w;«zozz##COUOUOitét#(COWw#CC#C.UCNCOitCCCNW_C_OCCNCCOtéCO#téCOC##C.UUMC

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOMAS E. ENNIS
1930-1984

Thomas E. Ennis Jr., professor of ac-
counting at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, died July 30. He was 54.

A native of Salisbury, N.C., Ennis
had been a member of the W&L faculty
since 1955.

He received his bachelor of science
degree and his master’s of business ad-
ministration from the University of North
Carolina. He earned the Ph.D. degree
from the University of Michigan.

Ennis was a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa and Beta Gamma Sigma, the honor
fraternity in business administration.

He was a member of the American
Accounting Association and the National
Association of Accountants.

Ennis’ primary research area involv-
ed the effects of inflation on accounting.

Survivors include his wife, Mrs.
Loraine May Ennis of Lexington, and six
sisters, Mrs. Gladys Calbeck of Tyler,
Texas; Mrs. Louise Estep of Woodstock,
Va.,; Mrs. theima Hutchinson of
Hendersonville, N.C.; Mrs. Frances Fotz
of Salisbury, N.C.; Mrs. Bobbie Ward of
Salisbury, N.C.; and, Mrs. Dorothy
Coulter of Georgia.

Memorial contributions in Ennis’
honor may be made to the American
Diabetes Association or the American
Heart Fund.

 

Coffey wins
Steinheimer Award

 

 

 

 

 

J. Randall Coffey, a third-year stu-
dent in Washington and Lee University’s
School of Law, has been named the 1984
recipient of the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.
Law Review Award.

Coffey, a native of Tulsa, Okla., and
a 1982 graduate of Vanderbilt University,
was voted the winner of the Steinheimer
Award by the 1983-84 Board of Editors
of the Washington and Lee Law Review.

The Steinheimer Award is presented
annually to the second-year law student
who authors the most outstanding article
for the Washington and Lee Law Review
during the academic year.

Coffey was recognized for his article
entitled ‘‘Admissibility of Prior-Action
Depositions and Former Testimony under
Fed.R.Civ.P. 32 (a) (4) and Fred.R.Evid
804 (b)(1).”’

The award is named in honor of Roy
L. Steinheimer Jr., who served as dean
of the W&L law school from 1968 to
1983 and is currently professor of law at
W&L. Two law school alumni, Samuel
N. Allen III, ’82L, and Robin Jackson
Allen, ’84L, provide funding for the an-
nual presentation.

 

Faculty activities

 

e Robert C. Peniston, director of
Washington and Lee University’s Lee
Chapel and former commanding officer
of the USS New Jersey, addressed the
staff course of the Royal Naval College
in Greenwich, England, in June.

Peniston, a retired Navy captain,
spoke on the role of the USS New Jersey
in United States maritime policy.

The staff course consists of 60 middle
grade officers from the British Com-
monwealth and the United States.

The Royal Naval College is situated
on the Thames just below the Greenwich
Naval Observatory.

e A paper reporting the findings of a
Washington and Lee University
psychology professor and two W&L
graduates has been published by the
Bulletin of the Psychonomic Society.

David G. Elmes, professor of
psychology at W&L, and W&L graduates
Paul F. Chapman of Short Hills, N.J.,

and Camden W. Seling of Norfolk were
the authors of the study entitled ‘‘Role of
mood and connotation in the spacing
effect.’’

Portions of the data in the paper were
originally reported at the meeting of the
Psychology Society in San Diego in
November 1983.

The research involves the relationship
between mood and memory and con-
cludes that the efficiency with which
students remember in study situations can
be affected by the students’ mood.

The study is part of Elmes’ continuing
research on human memory and has been
supported by Robert E. Lee Research
Grants at Washington and Lee.

e A Washington and Lee University
law professor is the author of the first
compilation of Virginia criminal law since
the 19th century.

Roger D. Groot, professor of law at
W&L and a specialist in criminal law, has
published the new volume entitled
*‘Criminal Offenses and Defenses in
Virginia.’’

According to Groot, the book is in-
tended primarily as a desk reference for
attorneys and judges but could also be
used as a text in courses in police science
and related courses. It was published by
the Harrison Company of Norcross, Ga.

Every crime and defense, whether
Originating in statute or common law, is
identified in the book. All of the major
crimes, including the incomplete crimes
such as conspiracy and solicitation are
treated in great detail.

Crimes that are similar to one another
are carefully distinguished with the dif-
ferences between them explained. Those
defenses that are limited to specific
crimes are identified with those crimes
while defenses of general application,
such as the insanity defense, are analyzed
as separate topics.

Groot has conducted research on a
variety of topics in criminal law, ranging
from the origins of the jury system in
12th-century England to the feasibility of
using videotape evidence in criminal
trials.

A graduate of Vanderbilt University
where he majored in Russian, Groot
received his law degree from the Universi-
ty of North Carolina. He has been a
member of the faculty at the Washington
and Lee School of Law since 1973.

¢ Gordon P. Spice, professor of
music and director of the Glee Club at

2?

 

a ceimenenniennemmnanenmmnmmnmemmeentece cc i

 

de Gazette

Washington and Lee University, was a
member of the faculty for a seminar on
Moravian music last month in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

Spice presented a lecture entitled
‘‘The Contribution of Gebhard’’ during
the 15th Moravian Music Festival and
Seminar at Salem College.

The lecture dealt with the work of
Johann Gottfried Gebhard, an 18th-
century Moravian composer who was the
subject of Spice’s doctoral dissertation.
During the spring of 1982 Spice had con-
ducted further research on Gebhard’s life
and works in Herrnhutt, East Germany,
on a Glenn Grant for research from
WEL.

In addition to the lecture, Spice
prepared manuscript editions of four of
Gebhard’s anthems, one aria and one
piano sonata, all of which had their first
modern performances during the festival.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1973, Spice received his
bachelor’s degree from the University of
Toledo, his master’s degree from Ohio
State, and his Ph.D. in musicology from
the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill.

e H. Thomas Williams Jr., professor
of physics at Washington and Lee
University, is the author of an article in
the June issue of Physical Review, a
publication of the American Physical
Society.

The article is entitled ‘‘Free delta
propagator.”’

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty sincd 1974, Williams received his
bachelor’s degree and his Ph.D. in
physics from the University of Virginia.
He is the author of numerous papers on
nuclear physics for technical literature.

e Washington and Lee University
chemistry professor John H. Wise recent-
ly won first prize in two categories of
computer graphics at the Biennial
Chemical Education Meeting at the
University of Connecticut.

Computer graphics programs Wise
created to illustrate chemical principles
won in the minicomputer and above and
microcomputer categories. One of the
graphics will be used as an illustration on
the cover of the publication. Computers
in Chemical Education, later this year.

Earlier this summer Wise was one of
290 participants from throughout the
world attending the Ninth International
Conference of Atomic Physics at the
University of Washington in Seattle. He

30

 

LEON F. SENSABAUGH
1903-1984

Leon F. Sensabaugh, former Dean of
the College at Washington and Lee, died
July 27 at his Lexington home following
a lengthy illness. He was 80.

A native of Dublin, Tex., Sensabaugh
came to Washington and Lee as Dean in
1956. He held that position until 1960
when he decided to return to the
classroom fulltime as professor of
history. He taught history until his retire-
ment in 1974 when the W&L board of
trustees designated him Dean Emeritus.

Following his retirement from W&L
Sensabaugh won a seat on the Lexington
City Council and served one term. He
also served as president of the Rockbridge
County Cancer Society.

Sensabaugh’s field of special interest
was Latin American history, especially
Brazilian history. He taught several
upper-level lecture and seminar courses in
that area as well as introductory history
courses.

He attended Oklahoma City Univer-
sity and received his bachelor’s degree in
history from Vanderbilt University in
1925. He received his Ph.D. from Johns
Hopkins in 1928.

Prior to coming to Washington and
Lee, Sensabaugh taught at Oklahoma
City University for 13 years and at
Birmingham-Southern College for 20
years.

He spent a year in Brazil studying
United States-Brazilian relations on a
Rosenfeld Fellowship. He was chairman
of the Latin American program for the

 

 

Southern Historical Association five
times.

In addition to his scholarly research
and writing, he frequently reviewed books
for newspapers and journals.

Sensabaugh is survived by his wife,
Mary Holmes Sensabaugh of Lexington;
two granddaughters, Mrs. Stephen Bass
of Franklin, Tenn., and Mrs. Steve
Jackson of Atlanta: a brother, Dr.
George Sensabaugh of Palo Alto, Calif.;
and, a sister, Mrs. John V. Goode of
Dallas, Texas.

The family suggests memorial con-
tributions be made to the Lexington
Rescue Squad or a favorite charity.

 

attended the conference on a Glenn
Grant from W&L.

e David B. Dickens, associate pro-
fessor of German, was a participant in
the annual New Hampshire Symposium
on the German Democratic Republic
(East Germany) during the summer.

Dickens presented a paper entitled
‘*The View from the Kraemerbruecke: An
Introduction to Denkmalpflege in the
GDR.’’ Denkmalpflege corresponds ap-
proximately to preservation and renova-
tion of cultural monuments.

In his talk, Dickens noted that recent
changes in East German laws had
established an approach and an attitude

toward cultural preservation that is quite
different from that with which the West
is familiar. He used the city Erfurt and
its medieval Kraemerbruecke or Mer-
chants’ Bridge to illustrate his remarks.
He was able to quote East German of-
ficials who readily admitted that the
‘‘nolitics of culture’? had become an in-
strument of national and international
politics for East Germany.

Dickens began the research for his
paper during the summer of 1982 when
he traveled extensively in East Germany
and was able to interview officials and
others who helped with the project in
both Erfurt and East Berlin.

 

 

 

Chapter News

 

CUMBERLAND VALLE Y—Gathering at the Bavarian Inn in Shepherds-
town, W.Va., were (from left) Mrs. Roger Perry; Roger Perry, ’52, ’54L,
chapter president; Bill Schildt, 64, ’68L, chapter president-elect; Mrs. Bill
Schildt; Steve Kershner, ’84L; and, Mrs. Steve Kershner.

  

os ees .

WINSTON-SALEM—Stalwarts of the Winston-Salem Chapter, their guests
and children gather with their leader John Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, at the
annual summer barbecue at Tanglewood Park.

   

WINSTON-SALEM. Chapter President John Cocklereece, ’76,
*79L, welcomed Winston-Salem alumni to the chapter’s annual
summer barbecue on August 11 at Tanglewood Park. In addition
to enjoying the Carolina barbecue, the guests participated ina
question and answer session about coeducation with Assistant
Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68. Bill Dunker, ’55, announc-
ed plans for a fall meeting of the Greensboro Chapter.

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM. Rick Chittum, ’69, was host for
the annual summer picnic on August | at his Christmas tree farm
near Churchville. Approximately 50 alumni, current students,
and guests welcomed incoming freshman Tom Bellamy and his
family. Outgoing Chapter President Ross Hersey, ’40, presided at
the meeting and, upon nominations from Richard Smith, ’41, in-
stalled the following new officers: Rick Chittum, president; John
Lee, ’68, vice president; and, Wick Vellines, ’68, secretary-
treasurer. Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms brought greetings
from the University and was joined for the meeting by Assistant
Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, and Alumni Staff Assistant
Ben Hale, ’85.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. The annual dinner of the
Cumberland Valley Chapter was held August 9 at the Bavarian

 
   

 

  

a Bes a
gay . s
3 Sy $ R
bi 3 :
. es 3 ca Rt
5S x
3 ee \

Bs é

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—At the August meeting near Churchville
were (from left) John Lee, ’68, chapter vice president; Buddy Atkins, ’68,
assistant alumni secretary; Wick Vellines, ’68, secretary-treasurer; Tom
Bellamy, ’88; Ross Hersey, ’40, past president; and, Rick Chittum, ’69,
incoming chapter president.

 

 

em

CHARLOTTE—Enjoying the Carolina barbecue at a mid-summer recep-
tion for W&L alumni and entering students are (from left) Phillip
Rockecharlie, ’82; Chris Gammon, ’81; and, Mrs. Chris Gammon.

Inn in Shepherdstown, W.Va. Following the superb dinner,
Chapter President Roger Perry, ’52, ’54L, directed an involved
program. He first called upon Jim Clapp, ’73, to nominate a slate
of officers for the coming year. Elected unanimously were Bill
Schildt, ’64, ’68L, president; Ted Gregory, ’75, vice-president;
and, Ken Long, ’69, secretary-treasurer. Charlie Beall, ’56, ’58L,
a director of the Alumni Association introduced current and new
students from the area. Perry then introduced Joe Freeland,

WAL assistant football coach who recruits the Cumberland
Valley area. Freeland recognized the contributions of several key
team members from the region, some of whom were present at
the dinner, and presented prospects for the coming season. Assis-
tant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, concluded the program
by discussing the coeducation decision. Accompanying Atkins
and Freeland was Ben Hale, ’85, a staff assistant in the Alumni
Office.

KANSAS CITY. The chapter welcomed Alumni Secretary Dick
Sessoms with a reception and dinner at the University Club on
August 23. Chapter President Todd Sutherland, ’81, presided
over the meeting at which Sessoms provided a report of the Board
of Trustees’ coeducation decision of a month earlier. Sutherland

31

 

Chapter News

announced that it was the chapter’s hope to have W&L President
John D. Wilson address the group late this fall.

CHARLOTTE. Chapter President Bill Sturges, ’75, and his wife,
Teresa, entertained alumni and guests at a reception and
barbecue in August to honor the incoming freshmen from the
area and their parents. The informal gathering provided a chance
for the members of the Class of ’88 to ask questions of alumni,
current students, and Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins,
°68, about the University. Officers were elected during the year:
Scott Stevenson, ’76, president; Will Ogburn, ’76, vice president;
and, Tom Mattesky, ’74, treasurer. Sturges announced results of
an earlier softball game in which W&L alumni had humbled a
team of area Virginia alumni, 20-7, behind the power hitting of
Rich Koch, ’75, and Sandy McDonald ’79.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. The chapter held its annual late summer
gathering at the home of Trustee Jimmy Gallivan, ’51, and his
wife, Joan. A large turnout of the Nashville alumni family, in-
cluding incoming freshmen and returning upperclassmen, attend-
ed the August 24 event along with several June 1984 graduates
now enrolled in graduate programs at Vanderbilt University.
Special guests were Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms and Develop-
ment Associate Milburn Noell. Chapter President Clay Jackson,
°76, made a special presentation of an engraved silver bowl to
former Chapter President Richard Cummins, ’59, for his active
leadership in alumni affairs.

PENSACOLA. Washington and Lee alumni from West Florida
and Southeast Alabama gathered for cocktails and dinner at the
Pensacola Hilton on August 15. The evening was arranged by
Chapter President Miner Harrell, ’71, with the assistance of
Millard Fretland, ’83L. Harrell was elected to another term as
president. He introduced several current students and two enter-
ing freshmen, Kramer Litvak and Phil Sherrill. Phil was accom-
panied to the meeting by his father, Charles Sherrill, 51; brother
Charlie, ’84; and, uncle Richard, ’54. Assistant Alumni Secretary
Buddy Atkins reported on the coeducation decision.

JACKSONVILLE. Chapter President Bill Gatlin, ’71, and Alum-
ni Admissions Representative Hal Catlin, ’71, were hosts for a
reception August 16 at the Timuquana Country Club. Assistant
Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, joined current students
from the area and alumni on the admissions committee in
welcoming the freshmen and their parents to the Washington and
Lee family. The chapter also entertained prospective applicants
for 1985 and their parents who had the opportunity to meet alum-
ni and students and to ask them about the University and the ap-
plication process. Earlier in the summer the Jacksonville Chapter
had met with University Trustee C. Royce Hough, ’59, to discuss
the coeducation decision.

ELSEWHERE THIS SUMMER. NORTHERN NEW JERSEY
entertained incoming W&L freshmen at the home of George
Higgs, ’58, in Mountain Lakes. . . DELMARVA had a cookout
for incoming freshmen and parents hosted by Clay Gooch, ’50,
and his wife, Shirley . . . Members of the MID-SOUTH Chapter
joined forces with U.Va. alumni to host an ‘‘Easters in July’’ par-

32

 

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Joining Trustee Jimmy Gallivan, ’51, (left) for
a summer chapter meeting at his Nashville home were Clay Jackson, ’76,
(center), the chapter president, and George Stadler, ’80, the chapter’s
secretary-treasurer.

 

SOUTHERN OHIO—The Southern Ohio Chapter held a mid-summer
gathering which included (from left) Jim Weiss, ’88; Tom O’Brien, ’88;
Kathy Atkinson; Stew Atkinson, 80; Tom Pender, ’87L; and, Tom Atkins,
69.

ty in Memphis. . . NEW ORLEANS held a picnic and reception
for incoming freshmen and parents at Audubon Park Shelter. . .
Randolph Larrice, ’49, was host for the SHENANDOAH
Chapter dinner and reception for new students...
CLEVELAND Chapter members got together with U.Va. alumni
for their annual softball game and picnic. . . OKLAHOMA CI-
TY Chapter members attended an Old Dominion party for alum-
ni of Virginia colleges and universities at the Oklahoma City Golf
and Country Club. . . TIDEWATER greeted incoming freshmen
at the home of John H. Richard, ’70. . . New students were
guests of Gray Castle, 53, in New Canaan, Conn., for the
WESTCHESTER-FAIRFIELD Chapter . . . Members of the
SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT Chapter joined the Universi-
ty of the South alumni for a softball game and barbecue in Green-
ville. . . An informal reception for incoming freshmen and cur-
rent students from the SOUTHERN OHIO Chapter was held at
the home of Anne-Marie and Tom O’Brien, ’58. . . RICH-
MOND Chapter members heard from Athletic Director Bill
McHenry, ‘54, and Head Lacrosse Coach Dennis Daly at the
chapter’s barbeque hosted by Tom Coates, ’66, ’69L . . . Univer-
sity Trustee Tom Touchton, ‘60, reported on the coeducation
decision during the FLORIDA WEST COAST Chapter’s recep-
tion for new students hosted by George Harvey .. . SAN AN-
TONIO Chapter members heard remarks about the coeducation
decision from University Trustee Houston H. Harte, ’50, ata
cookout Mr. Harte hosted. . . Incoming freshmen from the area
were guests of the LOUISVILLE Chapter for a cookout at the
home of Kennedy Simpson, ’75. . .SAN DIEGO Chapter
members gathered for their fourth annual Sunset Party at the La
Jolla Beach and Tennis Club with arrangements made by Chapter
President John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L.

a eae aa

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms _ All black lacquer
$145.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $140.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

 

1922

GEORGE S. RiaGGs has retired from Elam & Funsten
Realty in Richmond, Va., and now lives with his
son in Jacksonville, Fla.

1929

HENRY P. JOHNSTON, retired broadcasting ex-
ecutive in Birmingham, Ala., was recently elected
treasurer of the Lurleen B. Wallace Memorial
Cancer Hospital and was head of a campaign that
raised $11 million. Johnston has been a Rotarian
for 54 years and was recently made an honorary
member of his local club.

1930

SHUFORD R. NIcHOLs of Little Rock was presented
the Arkansas College Medal, the highest award
given by the college for service to the institution,
during its recent commencement. Nichols is presi-
dent and chairman of the board of Southern Com-
press Co., the largest cotton warehouse in the state.
He is also chairman of the board of Farmers and
Merchants Bank of Des Arc, Cotton Plant
Warehouse, Lonoke Banded Warehouse and the
Southern Compress Co. of Pine Bluff. He is also
a cotton farmer himself. Nichols has served on the
Federal Reserve Board and on the board of the
Arkansas Symphony Orchestra. He has continued
to serve on the executive committee of the board
and as a director and vice chairman of the board
of the college’s subsidiary, the Aberdeen Develop-
ment Corp.

1931

MICHAEL LEE was inducted into the harness rac-
ing Hall of Fame on July 1, 1984, in Goshen, N.Y.
Lee has been president of the Brooklyn chapter
of the Baseball Writers Organization, the New
York Turf Writers Organization, the U.S. Harness
Writers Association (for 13 years), the Jamaica
Long Island Rotary Club, and the master of the
Rufus King Masonic Lodge of Bayside, Long
Island.

1937

KARL E. BEAMER has retired after 26 years as a real
estate broker and developer and resides in Newport
News, Va.

FILLMORE G. WILSON has been elected a director
of Vensearch Project Co., Inc., of Houston,
Texas. He will assist in developing sources of ven-
ture capital for industrial and commercial projects
worldwide.

1940

A. LEA Bootu received an honorary degree from
Lynchburg College on May 12, 1984, recognizing
his service to the Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges.

33

Class Notes

194]

KIAH T. ForpD Jr. of Lynchburg, Va., is president
of Central Fidelity Insurance Agency, Inc., and
corporate insurance officer and vice president of
Central Fidelity Banks, Inc.

1944

Dr. WILLIAM P. PEAK retired from the University
of Louisville school of medicine, as emeritus pro-
fessor of medicine, and from private practice on
March 30,1984.

1945

WALTER E. FRYE retired from public school
teaching in January 1983 and is working part time
as a sales representative for Random House.

1948

JOHN E. MILLER JR. has been elected president of
Arkansas Cement Corp., a wholly owned sub-
sidiary of Arkla, Inc. He joined Arkansas Cement
when it was organized in 1958 and was elected
senior vice president and general manager in 1979.

1949

CARLTON D. JOHNSON is sales manager of the
Western District of Castle which is a division of
Sybron Corp. Castle manufactures sterilizing and
surgical lighting equipment for health care
facilities. Johnson and his family reside in Santa
Ana, Calif.

1950

Rurus B. HAILEY was appointed by Governor
Lamar Alexander of Tennessee to the University
of Tennessee board of trustees in June.

JOSEPH H. MCGEE has been elected to the board
of directors of the Citizens and Southern Corp.
and the board of the Citizens and Southern Na-
tional Bank of South Carolina. He is a partner in
the Charleston law firm of Buist, Moore, Smythe
and McGee.

Dr. J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG practices pediatrics
in a four-man group and is chairman of the depart-
ment of pediatrics at Reading Hospital and
Medical Center in Reading, Pa. He has two
children and three grandchildren.

1951

J. ALAN Cross Jr. of Coral Gables, Fla., has been
selected to receive the Lambda Chi Alpha Inter-
national Fraternity’s Order of Merit Award for
outstanding service to the Washington and Lee
chapter. He was the guest of the fraternity’s 40th
general assembly and leadership seminar on Aug.
19 in New Orleans.

TOWNSEND OAST, president of People’s Bank of
Chesapeake, Va., has been named president-elect

34

 

C. D. Bolt, ’55

of the Virginia Bankers Association. A native of
Portsmouth, Oast was one of the founders of Peo-
ple’s Bank of Chesapeake when it was organized
in 1966. The election took place at the Associa-
tion’s annual convention at Hot Springs in June.

1952

JosEPH H. MCGEE (See 1950.)

1953

Dr. LEONARD B. RANSON has taken a new posi-
tion at Teleconnect in the Contract Telemarketing
Division. He will be helping colleges and univer-
sities across the country use telemarketing in ad-
missions, development, and alumni searches.

1954

DANIEL D. DICKENSON, executive director of
Westminster-Canterbury has been appointed by
the Virginia Beach City Council to a three-year
term on the Eastern Virginia Medical Authority
(EVMA), the governing body for the Eastern
Virginia Medical School and other area medical
facilities. He serves on the board of directors of
Family Service in Tidewater, the Virginia Associa-
tion of Non Profit Homes for the Aging, and has
just completed a term as charter president of the
Cape Henry Rotary Club.

Dr. W. BARLOW INABET JR. was elected a Fellow
of the American Society for head and neck surgery
at the annual meeting in Palm Springs, Calif., in
March. He lives in Greensboro, N.C.

THOMAS J. KENNY of Ruxton, Md., has been
awarded the Distinguished Contributions Award
for 1983 by the Society of Pediatric Psychology,
a section of the American Psychological
Association.

CoL. DONALD E. WEsT recently retired from 30
years of U.S. Army reserve service. At the retire-
ment ceremony, he received the Legion of Merit
medal. In civilian life, West is the security con-
trol officer for AT&T Information systems.

 

CORRECTION

Two recent class notes contained errors. In the
May issue, David M. Bethea, ’70, should have been
identified as an associate professor of Slavic
languages at the University of Wisconsin,
Madison, rather than an assistant professor. In the
July issue, A. Carter Crymble, ’18, was listed as
a former member of the Tennessee State Board
of Aviation. He is actually a former member (and
twice chairman) of the Tennessee State Board of
Architectural and Engineering Examiners. We
apologize for the errors.

 

GEORGE M. Younc has been elected president of
the board of trustees of the Fort Worth Art
Museum.

1955

Cart D. Bott has been named to the newly created
position of vice president of automative sales for
Cummins Atlantic, Inc.. His territory will cover
Virginia, Maryland and Delaware. Bolt came to
Cummins from the Virginia Highway Users
Assoc., a trade association of the Virginia Truck-
ing Industry, where he was an administrative assis-
tant. Formerly he coached baseball and football
at Thomas Jefferson High School in Richmond,
at Emory and Henry College and at the Universi-
ty of Richmond.

JOHN M. DUHE Jr. is the new U.S. District Judge
for the western district of Louisiana. A native of
New Iberia, he has served as a judge of Division
E of the 16th Judicial District Court serving Iberia,
St. Martin and St. Mary parishes since 1979.

1959

OwEN H. HARPER, executive vice president of
Crocker Bank in Los Angeles, Calif., has been
named manager of the bank’s Corporate Bank-
ing Business in Southern California. A veteran of
the corporate and investment banking field,
Harper joined Crocker in 1972 after 12 years with
City Bank and Life Eastman Dillion. For the past
year, Harper has headed the bank’s corporate
communications.

RICHARD H. Horn has been elected to the house
of delegates of the Pennsylvania State Bar
Association.

1961

RICHARD W. Hoover is the chief of the political
section at the U.S. Embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus.

1962

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. E. WARREN MILLS, a son,
Edward Jr., on July 6, 1983, in New Port Richey,
Fla.

Puiip F.J. MACON has been promoted to captain
in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps Reserve. He lives
in Atlanta.

1964

JoHN M. ALLGoop is editor of an international
journal entitled The Daylilly Journal. Allgood and
his family live in Walterboro, S.C.

D. CULVER SMITH III (See 1967.)

1965

Ltc. DouGLas G. BIELENBERG has been sent to the
U.S. Embassy in Mexico City as the assistant Ar-
my attache.

 

 

   

B. A. Brownell, ’65 M. R. Eaker, ’69
Dr. BLAINE A. BROWNELL has been named dean
of the school of social and behavioral sciences at
the University of Alabama at Birmingham. An ur-
ban historian who has published numerous books
and articles, he held the first chair of the depart-
ment of urban studies, and now holds the primary
faculty appointment in the new department of
political science and urban affairs. Brownell has
most recently served as dean and co-director of
the graduate school at UAB. He will continue to
direct the UAB Center for International Programs
and to edit the Journal of Urban History, an
academic publication. The author of several books
and papers, Brownell has been a research fellow
at Johns Hopkins and held a Fulbright-Hays lec-
tureship in American studies and urban studies at
Hiroshima University, Japan.

Dr. Mark G. HAEBERLE practices obstetrics and
gynecology in Ashland, Ky., and was recently ap-
pointed to the teaching staff of the University of
Kentucky College of Medicine as clinical instruc-
tor in the residency program.

H. DANIEL Jongs III is a representative with the
investment firm of Drexel Burnham and Lambert
in Washington, D.C.

WooDARD D. OPENO continues to work in the field
of architectural preservation in the Portsmouth,
N.H., area. He has just purchased a Greek Revival
house in nearby Somersworth and looks forward
to restoring it.

Dr. CHARLES A. SWEET JR. has published short
stories in mystery magazines under pseudonyms
ranging from Hal Charles to Brett Halliday. Sweet
is an English professor at Eastern Kentucky
University in Richmond.

1966

C. THOMAS BuRTON Jr. left his law practice in
Roanoke in April to become vice president/general
counsel of Carson Brewing Co., Inc., in the Lake
Tahoe area of Nevada. He expects to be involved
in building a 200,000 barrel brewery in Carson City
to produce Tahoe beer.

Davip E. FLEISCHER is the editor of the book
Therapeutic Laser Endoscopy. In the past year he
has lectured in Portugal, Italy, Austria and Brazil.
Fleischer is leaving his staff position at Cleveland
Clinic to return to Washington, D.C.

1967

D. CULVER SMITH III was recently elected to the
board of governors of the Florida Bar.

GEORGE N. Stamas resigned in May as vice presi-
dent with First National Bank of Chicago in their
New York office. He is now president of SYPCO
R&D Corp., a start-up company that will detox-
ify and rehabilitate alcoholics and drug abusers in
New York.

   

1968

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. J. JEFFREY THISTLE, a
daughter, Ellen, in February 1984 in Delray Beach,
Fla. Thistle recently merged his law practice to
establish the new firm of Byrd, Devitt, Otto and
Thistle.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. CHARLES B. TomMM, a son,
Charles Baily Jr., on June 21, 1984, in New York.
Tomm is general counsel for Schlumberger, Ltd.

HAROLD E. CLARK now lives in Wilton, Conn. He
is vice president of finance and business planning
for Maclean Hunter Media.

JON T. HULSIZER is with the AT&T Information
Systems in the product management and develop-
ment division. Hulsizer and his wife, Michelle,
celebrated their 10th anniversary with daughters,
Jocelyn and Gillian, in Morristown, N.J.

EDWARD I. HUTCHINS travels extensively as direc-
tor of sales and marketing for Safaris and Tours,
which operates meeting and convention services
in 15 resorts and cities across the United States.
He lives in Waikiki Beach.

1969

MARRIAGE: Kirk Woopwarb and Pat Conway
on June 23, 1984, in Jersey City, N.J. In atten-
dance were Ernest Woodward II, the groom’s
father, ’40, Louis K. Coleman, ’69, Richard E.
Kramer, ’69, and E. Robert Giammittorio, ’69,
*73L. Woodward works in theater in New York
City.

THOMAS C. BRICKHOUSE, chairman of the Lyn-
chburg College philosophy department, received
one of the colleges 1984 Distinguished Faculty
Scholar Awards. Brickhouse, who is widely
published, was a National Endowment for the
Humanities Seminar Fellow at the University of
California at Berkely in 1980 and 1983. He also
received the Mednick Memorial Fund Award from
the University of Reggis Clabria in 1983 for ex-
penses at International Congress for Utopian
Studies.

CHARLES R. CHITTUM was featered in an article
about the community of artists in Staunton which
appeared in the August 1984 issue of Com-
monwealth. Chittum is described as a
*“‘photographer-film maker... occasional ac-
tor . . . and Christmas tree farmer.”’ He is an ac-
tive board member for a number of arts organiza-
tions in Staunton. Chittum lives on his Christmas
tree farm near Churchville, Va.

Davip L. DOWLER was elected in August to the
board of directors of Adobe Oil and Gas Corp.,
a Midland, Texas, based exploration and produc-
tion company listed on the American Stock Ex-
change. Dowler continues as vice president of
Madison Resources, Inc., and serves as president
of the New York alumni chapter.

Dr. MARK R. EAKER has been named director of
the master’s of business administration program
at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s
School of Business Administration. He is an
associate professor of finance and had been chair-
man of the M.B.A. program’s first-year curriculum
committee. Eaker is co-author of Macroeconomics,
a textbook.

GLEN P. Mattox has been promoted to senior
supervisor within McDonalds Corporation in the
Philadelphia region.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GORDON W. BEALL, a
daughter, Kirsten Enquist, on Jan. 11, 1984. Beall
is working as a freelance photographer in
Washington, D.C., specializing in architectural/in-
terior design work.

MICHAEL M. CoLe works for the Counseling-
Psychological Services Center at the University of
Texas at Austin and for the Brown schools divi-
sion of Healthcare International.

Harry L. SALZBERG is vice president of Ander-
son & Strudwick, a member of the New York
Stock Exchange, in Richmond, Va.

197]

WILLIAM H. Arvin received a juris doctor degree
from Catholic University in Washington, D.C.

ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND II is currently vice presi-
dent of Cleveland, White & Associates, real estate
developers; president of Coal, Inc., with opera-
tions in Illinois and Alabama; and vice president
of American Farmed Seafoods, distributors and
growers of inland seafood with offices in Olym-
pia, Wash., and Spartanburg, S.C.

R. BALFOUR SARTOR is assistant professor of in-
ternal medicine in the division of diseases at the
University of North Carolina school of medicine,
and has recently received a three-year research
grant.

JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS recently served on an
American Bar Association special task force which
urged federal legislation to combat the spread of
computer crime. Tompkins, a former deputy chief
of the Justice Department’s fraud section, is a part-
ner in the Washington office of the Sidley & Austin
law firm.

1972

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. THoMaAs G. KEEFE, a son,
Jonathan Elliott, on May 10, 1984, in Newport
News, Va. Attending the christening were John B.
Keefe, ’76, of Richmond and Peter C. Keefe, ’78,
of Alexandria. Keefe has been named manager of
purchasing for Newport News Industrial Corp.
(NNI), a subsidiary of Newport News Ship-
building, a Tenneco company. NNI is an interna-

35

Class Notes

tional nuclear power plant repair and service
organization.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. LEx O. MCMILLAN III,
a son, James Graham, on March 30, 1984, in
Ashland, Va. He joins an older brother, Justin
Christopher, and sister, Flannery Elizabeth.

ALAN D. FRAZER lives with his wife, Candace, in
Bridge of Allan, Scotland, where he is on assign-
ment to open a new computer manufacturing
facility for Wang laboratories.

STEPHEN M. FINLEY (See 1975.)

1973

MARRIAGE: James G. HARDWICK and Anne
Traylor of Richmond on Sept. 9, 1983. Hardwick
is now associated with Charles A. Rose Co. of
Richmond, Va., involved in residential, commer-
cial, and investment real estate.

WILLIAM P. BALLARD JR. is celebrating the first an-
niversary of his business, Ballard Properties, Inc.,
which manages commercial real estate investments.
He has three children, Sarah, 9, Carolyn, 5, and
W. Pierce III, 18 months.

Lt. COMMANDER CLYDE M. HENKEL was named
an ‘‘Outstanding Law Enforcement Officer’’ by
the U.S. Dept. of Justice at a June awards
ceremony. He is stationed at Miami, Fla.

CRAIG B. JoNES has been made a partner in the
Atlanta law firm of King & Spalding.

RoBERT E. Levy has been appointed a deputy at-
torney general for the state of New Jersey and is
assigned to the special prosecutions section which
investigates and prosecutes matters concerning
political corruption and organized crime. He was
married in 1982 to the former Ellen Sablosky of
Lafayette Hill, Pa.

Scott M. TuRNER is currently the head of en-
vironmental practice in the firm of Nixon,
Hargrave, Devans & Doyle in Churchville, N.Y.
Other W&L graduates in the firm include Alan L.
Button, ’8IL, Catherine Sullivan Ward, ’82L, Eric
J. Ward, ’82L, Pamela L. Ryan and Steven J.
Tranelli, both ’83L.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ROBERT M. RAINEY, a son,
Robert Clarke, on April 27, 1984, in Ander-
son, S.C. Rainey is employed by J. P. Stevens Co.,
Inc., as a corporate environmental engineer.

Dr. New D. LUTINs is in the private practice of
periodontics in Greensboro, N.C.

J. HAMPTON TISDALE has opened his own law of-
fice in Frederick, Md.

STEPHEN C. WoopRvuFF is sole proprietor of

36

Pacific Vanguard, a consulting practice. His cur-
rent work emphasis is on legislative research and
development and information services. Woodruff
is a member of the Chamber of Commerce
economic development committee and vice presi-
dent of NMI Society of Professional Consultants.
He lives in Saipan in the Mariana Islands.

1975

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DAvip G. DOWELL, a son,
Jonathan Harding, on Sept. 21, 1983. Dowell is
a stockbroker with Hillard Lyons in Bowling
Green, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. STEPHEN M. FINLEY, a
daughter, on June 24, 1984, in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RICHARD M. KOCH, a son,
Richard Crawford, on April 27, 1983, in Charlotte.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RAYMOND L. RHEAULT,
a daughter, Kathryn, on June 18, 1984. Rheault
is married to Julianna L. Devereaux and has a step-
daughter, Anita, 11. He is the director of fiscal
operations for the health department of Prince
George’s County, Md.

TRENTON G. CREWE JR. has been appointed to a
six-year term as a substitute judge in the general
district and juvenile and domestic relations courts
of the 27th District of Virginia and elected to a
four-year term on the Wytheville Town Council.
He also competed in and completed a 26.2 mile
marathon run. Crewe is a partner in the law firm
of Campbell, Young & Hodges.

J. WtLLIAM LASSETTER is vice president of
Tallahassee Realty Co. and is active in residential
sales in the Tallahassee area. He is also continu-
ing his work in historic preservation and in the
design and restoration of vintage homes and multi-
family residential structures.

Having completed his service obligation in the Ar-
my JAG Corps, SAMUEL R. LEwIs is now
employed as general counsel for Systematics
General Corp., a company engaged in systems
engineering and information security located in
Herndon, Va.

BENJAMIN M. SHERMAN has started a computer
software business specializing in software packages
for athletic departments with personal computers
or access to them, named SportsWare, Inc. He
continues as sports information director at the
University of Delaware.

MurRAY T. HOLLAND (See 1980.)

1976

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. RICHARD T. WOULFE, a
son, Brandon Thomas, on May 19, 1984, in Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla.

ROBERT L. AMSLER has been promoted to inter-

national banking officer in the international bank-
ing department of Dominion Bankshares Corp. He
works in the northern Virginia office and lives in
Herndon with his wife, Julie.

Dr. BEN R. BarRTON is the chief resident in surgery
at the Medical College of Virginia Hospitals in
Richmond. Next July Barton plans to begin a
fellowship in cardiothoracic surgery at Emory
University Affiliated Hospitals in Atlanta.

D. Scott FARRAR is employed by Dominion Bank
in Roanoke as a commercial real estate associate.

Dr. KENNETH G. MACDONALD JR. is a resident in
surgery at the East Carolina University Medical
School in Greenville, N.C.

Douctas R. Murr has been promoted to senior
manager at Price Waterhouse in Winston-Salem,
N.C. He is a member of the North Carolina
Association of Certified Public Accountants. Muir
joined Price Waterhouse in 1976.

JULIAN J. NEXSEN JR. has joined the legal staff
of Greenwood Mills, Inc., in Greenwood, S.C.

Dr. VERNON E. O’ BERRY has opened a dentist of-
fice in Virginia Beach after having completed a
year of general practice with his father.

CapPpT. ROBERT D. Propst is working at the Army
Division Artillery Headquarters in Nurnberg, West
Germany.

Gary W. SELDOMRIDGE has completed three years
as comprehensive dental officer at the U.S. Naval
Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He recently enjoyed a
three-week tour of Europe and began a four-year
residency in oral and maxillofacial surgery at
University Hospital in Jacksonville in July.

1977

MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL D. ARMSTRONG and Jane
Landerdale on March 24, 1984, in Atlanta.
Members of the wedding party were Rob Mish,
°76, John Berley and Dave Johnston, ’77, and
Charlie Smith, ’79. Many other alumni were pre-
sent. The couple lives in San Francisco where he
works for an investment bank.

MARRIAGE: WarrEN R. T. WOLFE and Vickie
E. Woodard, on Aug. 14, 1982, in Charleston,
S.C. Robert A. Carpentier, ’77, was best man.
Wolfe received his J.D. degree from Wake Forest
University in 1982.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOSEPH L. CARRERE, a
son, Joseph Parkhill, on Jan. 24, 1984, in New
Orleans. Carrere earned an M.B.A. at Tulane
University in August and is now employed as assis-
tant vice president in the corporate finance sec-
tion of Howard, Weil, Labouisse, Friedrichs, Inc.

BRADLEY J. FRETZ is employed by The Vanguard

a i i ee

Group of Investment Companies where he does
strategic/market planning for the institutional
group. He recently relocated to Malvern, Pa.

Gary K. HALgy has recently moved to Columbia,
S.C., as manager for the newest branch of Caskie
Paper Co.

CRAIG F. HAMILTON is an investment officer at
Atlantic National Bank of Florida and a bond
salesman. He has done some part-time modeling
and plans to buy a condominium at Ponte Vedra
Beach, Fla.

Puitip L. HATCHETT is an attorney practicing with
Williams, Worrell, Kelly and Greer in Norfolk.

GEORGE E. Haw III is vice president and secretary
of Ruffin and Payne, Inc., in Richmond, Va. He
is married to the former Lynn Green.

CHARLES M. LOLtar is a partner in the firm of
Willcox, Savage, Dickson, Hollis & Eley in Nor-
folk, Va.

Dr. JAMES U. Scott will become chief resident in
the department of pediatrics and human develop-
ment at Michigan State University. He lives in
Lansing.

Douctas A. SCOVANNER became vice president and
controller of Pacific Coca-Cola Bottling Co., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Coca-Cola Co..,
in November 1983.

MARSHALL K. SNYDER is the communications of-
ficer for the 22nd Marine Amphibious unit sta-
tioned at Camp Lejune. He participated in opera-
tions at both Grenada and Beirut.

LEwIs R. WINDHAM II, president of Magic Gas
Co., Inc., recently attended the European Associa-
tion of Liquified Petroleum Gas Congress in Can-
nes, France. The congress is an exchange of
technical and economic developments.

1978

MARRIAGE; GEorGE L. CARSON JR. and Joy L.
Malcom, on April 24, 1984, in Social Circle, Ga.

MARRIAGE: Capt. STEPHEN E. MATTESKY and
Katherine S. Voelker, on June 9, 1984, in Lake
Providence, La. Members of the wedding party
were Thomas A. Mattesky, ’74, and Edward A.
Burgess, ’78. H. Allen Irish, ’78L, was among the
guests. The couple lives in Ft. Dix, N.J.

ALEXANDER H. BisHop IV has completed his third
year of teaching fourth grade at Gilman School
in Baltimore. He also coaches the varsity soccer
team.

STUART CRAIG JR. has co-written the article
**Photographing Laser Light Effects,’’ for the
June 1984 issue of The Professional Photographer.
Craig owns a professional photography business

  

E. D. Pouch ITT, ’78

and has had photographs in many major publica-
tions. He is a member of American Society of
Magazine Photographers and Picture Agency
Council of America.

J. CLAYTON CROUCH completed the M.B.A. pro-
gram at Emory University. He is now an invest-
ment broker with J. C. Bradford and Co. in
Atlanta.

THEODORE H. Guiz JR. is employed by the E”’on
Corp. as a tax attorney and has been transferred
to the Alaska operations office in Anchorage,
Alaska.

GERALD L. MAATMAN Jp. is a trial and appellate
lawyer with Baker and McKenzie in Chicago. He
has recently argued before the Illinois Supreme
Court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th
Circuit.

EpGar D. Poucu III has been named tax and
financial planner for Financial Services Group,
Inc., in Greenville, S.C., where he will advise clients
on a wide range of money management matters.

RICHARD A. ROGERS received a master’s of law in
taxation degree from Georgetown University in
February 1983. He has recently taken a job with
Hutchinson and Associates, an actuarial consulting
firm, in Raleigh, N.C. Rogers is married and has
two children, Louise, 5, and Alexander, 1.

GEORGE M. SMITH graduated with an M.B.A.
degree from the graduate school of management
at the University of Rochester. He has returned to
Houston to work at Texas Commerce Bank.

1979

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. STEPHEN Y. McGEHEE,
a son, Edward Antell, on July 13, 1983, in
Walpole, Mass.

Amy H. GALLAGHER is vice president of the invest-
ment banking department at Seattle-First National
Bank in Seattle, Wash.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV has been promoted to
associate actuary with the Wyatt Company in
Washington, D.C.

JAMES A. TomMins has been promoted to the posi-
tion of Martex sales representative with West Point
Pepperell’s consumer products division in N-Y. He
has been with the company since 1979.

1980

MARRIAGE: Douc BRokEKER and Melanie Lee
Ink on May 19, 1984, in Miami Shores, Fla.

MARRIAGE: Tuomas E. Dutton and Susan S.
Millard on Aug. 13, 1983, in Columbus, Ohio. He
is an associate with the law firm of Bricker and
Eckler. He graduated from Northwestern School

J. A. Tommins, ’79

   

of Law in June 1983 and was admitted to the Ohio
bar on Nov. 1, 1983. The couple lives in
Columbus.

MARRIAGE: \st Lt. SypNEY D. FARRAR and
Margaret M. Wren on June 10, 1983. The couple
lives in Fayetteville, N.C., where Farrar is serv-
ing as aide-de-camp for Maj. Gen. Richard Schot-
tes at Fort Bragg.

MARRIAGE: Murray T. HOLLAND and Scarlett
Ann Bowder on April 7, 1984, in Waco, Texas.
Members of the wedding party were Douglas H.
Hunt, William H. Biesel Jr., John F. Garth, Gary
G. Dannelly, J. Barclay Armstrong II and
Lawrence F. Lyles, all members of the class of ’75,
Tavenner C. Lupton II and William H. Moomaw
Jr., both members of the class of ’76, and Thomas
P. Faulkner Jr., ’74.

MARRIAGE; WiuiaM E. PRITCHARD III and
Susanne R. Beueau in June 1982, in Baton Rouge,
La. Pritchard is employed by Marathon Oil Co.
and has recently been transferred to Houston
where he will be working as a geologist in the com-
pany’s southern district exploration group.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ANDREW L. CROowsON,
a daughter, Diana Bentley, on July 16, 1984, in
Carlsbad, N. Mex.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JOHN J. EKLUND, a
daughter, Amanda, on April 7, 1984.

RICHARD J. ALLEN JR. was promoted to the rank
of captain in the U.S. Army on June 1, 1984. He
is presently attending the infantry officer advanced
course at Fort Benning, Ga.

EDWARD H. Brown has received an LL.M. degree
in taxation from Emory University. He has taken
a position as a tax attorney with the firm of
Schreeder, Wheeler & Flint in Atlanta, Ga.

ABNEY S. BoxLey III received an M.B.A. degree
from University of Virginia’s Darden School of
Business Administration in May 1983. He is now
manager of planning and product development for
W. W. Boxley Co. in Roanoke, Va.

After working in New York for three and a half
years, WALTON V. CLARK will enter University of
Virginia’s Darden Business School this fall.

ROBERT D. COLvIn is a third-year law student at
the University of Houston and works for
Associated Investment Properties, a real estate
development firm, in Houston.

LESLIE A. COTTER JR. has graduated from the
University of South Carolina School of Law. In
August 1984 he began his work as a clerk for the
Hon. Rodney A. Peeples of the second circuit of
South Carolina.

JORDAN D. DorRCHUCK is associated with the firm

3Y

 

Class Notes

of Hawkins, Delafield & Wood in New York.

GoETz B. EATON has finished a two-year training
program in finance at Polaroid Corp. He now
works as a financial analyst in international tax
analysis and compliance with Polaroid in Cam-
bridge, Mass.

EBEN D. FINNEY is an associate with Kidder
Peabody & Co., Inc., in Washington, D.C. He and
his wife, Sara, live in Annapolis, Md.

Tom Goss is now with the corporate syndicate
department of McDonald and Co. in Cleveland.
He handles the marketing and trading of new
issues of corporate securities.

JAMES E. HAMNER graduated from the University
of the South School of Theology in May 1984 and
now serves as curate at St. James Parish in Baton
Rouge, La.

PAuL C. HENDry is a financial consultant with
Shearson Lehman/American Express in Los
Angeles, Calif.

MarK E. LOCKHART has begun work towards his
M.B.A. degree. He lives in Walla Walla, Wash.

JAMES H. PARKER received a first-place award for
an in-depth story at the 1984 South Carolina Press
Association Awards banquet. He is the
Georgetown bureau reporter with the Charleston
News and Carrier. Parker has previously worked
with the Georgetown Times and the Kingstree
News.

JESSE F. SUBER graduated from the Florida State
University College of Law in April 1983. He has
passed the Florida bar exam and is presently assis-
tant state attorney for the second judicial circuit
in Quincy, Fla.

198]

MARRIAGE: R.L. BROOKE and Elizabeth Lynn
Burris of Charleston, S.C.,on May 26, 1984.
Brooke graduated from the University of Virginia
law school in May and now works for Hunton and
Williams in Richmond, Va., where the couple lives.

MARRIAGE: Davip W. ENGEL and Laura M.
Tuck on June 25, 1983. Engel, a captain in the
U.S. Army JAG Corps, was recently reassigned
as medical claims judge advocate at the Beaumont
Army Medical Center in El Paso, Texas.

MARRIAGE: STEVEN W. HELLBERG and Janet
Reilly on March 17, 1984. Hellberg is an account

executive with Creative Productions in Pittsburgh,
Pa.

MARRIAGE: Mark W. SCULLY and Ieka Osinga
on June 23, 1984. Scully is employed by Travelers
Insurance in Canton, Conn.

MARRIAGE: EDwarpD T. TAYLOR II and Ruth
38

D. Stewart on April 28, 1984, in Memphis, Tenn.
The couple lives in Charotte, N.C., where Taylor
is associated with The Kuester Companies Inc., a
commercial real estate firm.

BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. CLAUDE B. COLONNA JR.,
a son, Brad Bundick, on Sept. 22, 1983. Colonna
is a financial analyst for General Foods Mfg. Corp.
in Dover, Del.

RAYMOND K. BEsT received a master of engineer-
ing degree in environmental engineering from
Pennsylvania State University in December 1983.
He works for Buchart-Horn Consulting Engineers
in York, Pa.

WINSTON W. Burks III graduated from the
University of Pennsylvania law school in May.
After taking the bar exam he will begin as an
associate with the law firm of Archer & Greiner
in Haddonfield, N.J. He will live in Haddon
Heights.

CHRISTOPHER J. FAy works for an import/export
company in Taipei.

WILLIAM H. HopcEs is in New York working as
an assistant treasurer with Chase Manhattan Bank.

KEVIN M. McGuIre graduated from the Univer-
sity of Kentucky law school in May 1984. He is
an associate with Jackson, Kelly, Holt and O’Far-
rell in Charleston, W.Va. He is married to Betty
L. Ellis of Lexington, Ky.

Scott T. STAFFORD is director of sales at National
Network Job Fairs, a company that sponsors job
fairs for hi-tech candidates. He also has his own
personnel consulting and placement firm in Falls
Church, Va.

JAMES K. FALK (See 1984.)

1982

MARRIAGE: S. Scott BARR and Kathleen A.
Taff in October 1983. The couple lives in Annan-
dale, Va., where he works for Curtis 1000, a divi-
sion of American Business Products.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. RICHARD T. CERONE, a
son, Robert Michael, on June 24, 1984, in Lex-
ington, Va. Cerone is pursuing an M.A. degree
in athletic administration at Springfield College
in Springfield, Mass., and is also coaching defen-
sive backs in the Springfield football program.

CHRISTOPHER E. CAHILL is employed by Merrill
Lynch as an account executive in Princeton, N.J.

JEFFREY W. GUSTAFSON is working as an intern at
the regional office of the International Trade Ad-
ministration in Denver, Colo.

STEWART A. HINCKLEY is the director of catering
for the Washington Plaza Hotel in Washington,

D.C. He lives with Robert T. Schmidt, ’82, John
B. Snedden, ’81, and R. Sean Lapp, ’83.

JONATHAN H. PAKULA is an account executive
trainee with E.F. Hutton in Norfolk, Va.

HENRY F. SATTLETHIGHT is studying Russian at
Lackland Air Force Base. From there he will go
to technical school and will have an overseas
assignment next year.

DANIEL E. ScuHotTrT is currently shooting Through
the Night, a new film produced by Gene Wilder
and directed by Jordan Pearlman. He will have
the leading role.

JULIA G. THIGPEN is an attorney with the firm
Brown, Todd & Heyburn in Louisville, Ky.

1983

MARRIAGE: STEVEN A. DAvuB and Melinda Ann
Lanier on June 2, 1984, in Richmond, Va. The
couple lives in Somerville, N.J. Daub is a
marketing representative with IBM in Iselin, N.J.

THOMAS J. BRONNER is employed as a real estate
analyst and administrator at Halsey & Herrick
Ltd., a real estate development and syndication
firm, in New York City.

Esay CLARK is a representative for a Radio Shack
computer center in New York City.

GAINES H. CLEVELAND completed a law clerkship
with Judge Ellsworth Van Gaafeiland of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the second circuit in July.
He planned to travel in Europe before joining the
law firm of Covington & Burling in Washington,
D.C., this fall.

LAWRENCE R. DUFFEE is entering his second year
at the Babcock School of Management at Wake
Forest University. He plans to receive his M.B.A.
in May 1985.

STEPHEN P. GEARY has completed his first year
at the Louisiana State University Medical School.

Howarp E. Gir III has finished his first year at
Eastern Virginia Medical School and dedicated his
summer to medical missions work in the
Dominican Republic.

MICHAEL E. LAYNE is a store manager trainee for
the Richmond division of Safeway Stores, Inc. He
lives in Hampton, Va.

JOHN G. RUSSELL III is a petroleum geologist with
Ashley Oil of Kentucky, Inc., in Greenville, Ky.

1984

MARRIAGE: Lewis M. ALLEN JR. and Nevsa
Rene Angle, on July 14, 1984, in Lexington, Va.
Allen is working as an artist.

ES ERA RE oe Ee SRR oe oe Cet eae a RL aE Nee ee a ee eee a ee ee

 

CHARLES W. ALCORN III is a free-lance writer in
Victoria, Texas.

BILLY F. ANDREWS JR. is attending the Walter F.
George School of Law at Mercer University in
Macon, Ga.

KENNETH J. ANDSAGER is a tax accountant with
Amica Mutual Insurance Co. in Providence, R.I.

CHRIS E. BALDWIN is an accountant with Arehart
& Associates Ltd. in Waynesboro, Va.

2ND LT. Topp W. Barstow, who is with the U.S.
Army, is being transferred from Matthews, N.C.,
to Fort Sill, Okla.

RALPH W. BAuCcvM III is attending Louisiana State
University School of Medicine.

MARTIN J. BECHTOLD is a management trainee at
Guest Quarters in Alexandria, Va.

CHRISTOPHER M. BRADLEY was a summer intern
with Common Cause in Washington, D.C. This
fall he begins work on a master’s degree at the Lyn-
don B. Johnson School of Public Affairs in
Austin, Texas.

KEVIN E. BROwN is a student at the University of
Virginia.

ROBERT G.‘'BUCHANAN Jr. is a graduate student
at Southern Methodist University.

ROGER L. BUTLER is a student and research assis-
tant at the University of Minnesota in the twin
cities.

Eric J. CAMPBELL is employed as an estimator for
George Campbell Painting Corp. in Flushing,
N.Y.

GEOFFREY R.B. CAREY is a shareholder represen-
tative for T. Rowe Price & Associates in Baltimore,
Md.

PAUL F.J. CHAPMAN is a graduate student at Stan-
ford University.

ANDREW E. CLARK is an accountant with Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in Baltimore, Md.

THoMAS L.H. CockE is an architectural assistant
for Imagineering in Birmingham, Ala.

JOHN R. Cross Jr. is a financial analyst for
Hecht’s, a division of the May Company, in
Washington, D.C.

JAMES W. DaAvis was employed as an assistant
manager by Durr-Fillauor Medical Corp. for the
summer in Shreveport, La.

Bruce N. DEAN attends the University of
Maryland School of Law.

JAcK R. DENT is employed by South Carolina
Federal Bank as a management trainee in Colum-
bia, S.C.

ANDREW J. DEWING is a field systems analyst with
the computer systems division of the Harris Corp.
in McLean, Va.

Emory A. EDWARDs II is a student at Yale Univer-
sity Divinity School.

JAMES K. FALK is an associate with Middleton &
Reutlinger in Louisville, Ky.

PAUL N. FARQUHARSON attends the University of
Virginia law school.

LEE R. FELDMAN attends the Fels Center of
Government at the University of Pennsylvania. He
is majoring in governmental administration.

GEORGE A. FINLyY is employed as a corporate of-
ficer with Central Supply Co. in Clarksburg,
W.Va.

HERBERT O. FUNSTEN III attends the University
of Virginia engineering school.

RONALD M. GACHE attends the University of
Florida law school.

JOHN P. GALLAGHER is associated with Varner,
Stephens, Wingfield, McIntyre & Humphries in
Atlanta, Ga.

GEORGE R. GRAINGER JR. is a bank manager in
Houston, Texas, with the Commonwealth Finan-
cial Group.

ARIEL V. HAGER is an associate with Venable,
Baetjer & Howard in Baltimore, Md.

GREGORY H. HAYNEs is in executive training to
become a group manager with the Hecht Company
in Washington, D.C.

JOHN V. Howarp Jr. attends S.M.U. law school.

JAMES C. HUDSON is a programmer/analyst with
Computer Data Services, Inc., in Washington,
D.C.

ANTHONY J. INTERRANTE is a legal assistant with
Haynes & Boone in Dallas, Texas.

Mary M. JOHNSTON is associated with the firm of
Morris, James, Hitchens & Williams in Wilm-
ington, Del.

DONALD R. JONEs practices law with Colton, Bled-
soe, Tighe and Dawson in Midland, Texas.

2ND LT. RICHARD B. JONES JR. is stationed at Fort
Benning, Ga.

GUNNAR K. JORDAN attends Columbia Universi-
ty. He plans to pursue an M.B.A. with a concen-

tration in international business.

PAUL J. KENNEDY is associated with the firm of
Butler & Binion in Houston, Texas.

PETER W. LEBERMAN, while awaiting bar examina-
tion results, practices law with Sheehan, Phinney,
Bass & Green P.A. in Manchester, N.H.

GREGORY M. LEE, is an executive with Hecht’s
department stores. He lives in Arlington, Va.

STEVEN E. LEwiIs is a trust trainee with Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

KATHERINE CARRUTH LINK is a clerk in the Virginia
Supreme Court for the Hon. George M. Cochran
in Staunton, Va.

PERRY A. LLoyD is a graduate student at Ap-
palachian State University in Boone, N.C.

ANDREW J. MACLELLAN is an officer in the U.S.
Army.

RANDOLPH S. MCCLAIN is a graduate student at
the University of Miami business school.

JAMES G. McGuirk is associated with the firm of
Campbell, Woods, Bagley, Emerson, McNeer &
Herndon in Huntington, W.Va.

ROBERT W. MaASsIE IV is a group manager with
the Hecht Co. in Washington, D.C.

BENTON J. MATHIS JR. is an associate with the firm
of Smith, Currie & Hancock in Atlanta, Ga.

WADE M. MEADows is a management trainee with
Plan Services, Inc., in Tampa, Fla.

Davip L. MILLER is a management trainee with
Milliken & Company in Barnwell, S.C.

JOHN R. MINCHEw is a clerk in the Virginia
Supreme Court for the Hon. A. Christian Comp-
ton in Richmond.

Amy L. MINKINow is an attorney with the U.S.
Army in Huntsville, Ala.

ROBERT C. Moor Jr. is associated with the firm
of O’Callaghan, Saunders & Stumm in Atlanta,
Ga.

CYNTHIA A. NELSON is associated with the firm of
Spilman, Thomas, Battle & Klostermeyer in
Charleston, W.Va.

STEPHEN A. NELSON is associated with Bedinger,
Bedinger & Lipscomb in Boydton, Va.

WARREN E. NowLIn is associated with the firm
of Hunton & Williams in Richmond, Va.

39

 

Class Notes

2ND LT. EDWARD J. O’ BRIEN is a combat engineer
with the U.S. Army. He is presently stationed at
Fort Belvoir, Va., and will soon be transferred to
Germany.

JACK L. O’BrRIEN has recently changed his name
to Jack L. Goldsmith. He is a graduate student
at Oxford University in Oxford, England.

G. MICHAEL PACE Jr. is associated with the firm
of Gentry, Locke, Rakes & Moore in Roanoke,
Va.

W. DREW PERKINS JR. teaches at the Taft School
in Watertown, Conn.

CHARLES M. PLUMLY II is a customer accounting
representative with Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner
& Smith, Inc., in Rockville, Md.

THOMAS W. PRITCHARD is a production manager
with Jimco Concrete, Inc., in New Orleans, La.

IRA N. PURYEAR JR. is a financial planner with
Pennsylvania Equities Corp. in Florham Park,
N.J.

MARKHAM S. PYLE is a writer in Crosby, Texas.

MATHEW D. RAVENCRAFT attends the T.C.
Williams School of Law.

Tori C.A. RICHARDSON attends Fu Jen Catholic
University in Taiwan.

DANIEL E. RILEY is associated with the firm of
McGuire, Woods & Battle in Charottesville, Va.

RUSSEL R. ROSLER worked as a legal assistant with
the firm of Marshall & Melhorn this past summer.
He presently attends Cornell School of Law.

RICHARD R. ROSSER is enrolled in the New York
University School of the Arts graduate film mak-
ing program.

THOMAS W. SACKFIELD is a management trainee
with First National Bank in Louisville, Ky.

Davip K. SALSBURY is a Management trainee with
a pharmaceutical firm in Shreveport, La.

Myra L. SANDERSON is a judicial clerk for the
Hon. Richard L. Jones of the Alabama Supreme
Court in Montgomery.

2ND LT. PARKER B. SCHENECKER Of the U.S. Ar-
my is stationed at Fort Worth, Texas.

CARL D. SCHROEDER is pursuing a master’s degree
in international business studies at the University
of South Carolina in Columbia.

CHARLES E. SCHWAB is associated with the firm
of Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart in
Atlanta, Ga.

4C

STEPHEN G. SCHWELLER is associated with the firm
of Dinsmore & Shohl in Cincinnati, Ohio.

J. TyRuS SEIDULE, a second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army, is attending an armor officers basic course
in Ft. Knox, Ky.

THOMAS B. SHEPHERD III is associated with the
firm of Watkins, Ludlam & Stennis in Jackson,
Miss.

STEWART T. SHETTLE is a management associate
with Barnett Bank of Central Florida in Winter
Park.

ROLAND J. SIMON is a production management
trainee with Goodyear International Tire & Rub-
ber Co.

MICHAEL E. SINGER attends Maxwell School in
Syracuse, N.Y.

MARTIN R. SMITH JR. is associated with the firm
of Clark & Thompson in Charleston, W.Va.

2ND LT. Eric G. STOREY is stationed with the U.S.
Army in Fort Lewis, Wash.

RICHARD C. SWAGLER is a copy editor for the
Alabama Journal in Montgomery.

DANIEL H. THomas III has entered the U.S. Army.

MATTHEW G. THOMPSON JR. is a financial analyst
with First Boston Corp. in New York.

ALFRED P. TIBBETTS practices law with Tirola,
Herring & Pober in Westport, Conn.

Davip L. TREAT is associated with the firm Clif-
ton, Budd, Burke & DeMaria in New York.

BARTHE A. VANDOORN is an engineer with Plan-
ning Research Corp. in government information
systems at McLean, Va.

JoHN P. Vira is attending Villanova Graduate
School.

KEVIN WALAKOVITS is a retailer executive with the
Hecht Co. in Washington, D.C.

THOMAS P. WOHLFARTH is a public accountant with
Coopers & Lybrand in Richmond, Va.

MarRION E. Woop III is a management trainee with
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

RoBERT C. Woops attends the Medical College of
Virginia.

WILLIAM D. WOOLFOLK is employed by Central
Virginia Newspapers. He is news editor for the
Greene County Record in Stanardsville, Va.

MICHAEL S. WYATT attends Loyola School of Law.

|
GEORGE E. YOUMANS Jr. is employed by First
Atlanta Bank in Atlanta, Ga.

 

In Memoriam

 

1915

CoL. FRANK BREVARD HAYNE, retired U.S. Army
colonel, died on June 25, 1984. In addition to ser-
ving in two world wars, Col. Hayne was military
attache in Soviet Russia from 1937 to 1939,
military attache in Finland, Norway, and Sweden
in 1940, and commanding officer of the U.S. Ser-
vice Command in Egypt and Eritrea from 1941 to
1942.

1922

RONALD OGG WALKER died in Pinedale, Wyo.

1923

JOHN WILLIAM COLONNA JR. died Nov. 27, 1983,
in Norfolk. He was a native of Tasley, Va. He
worked in the wholesale distribution of petroleum
products in the Hampton, Newport News and
Williamsburg areas for over 20 years. In 1950 he
moved to Norfolk where he became a partner in
Allied Petroleum Co. and Rowe Distributing Co.
He retired in 1981.

OLIVER Woop MCCLINTOCK, a retired merchant,
died April 19, 1984, in Marianna, Ark. He was
an elder in the Presbyterian Church.

1925

CHARLES SIDNEY HEILIG, president of Taylor Mat-
tress Co., Inc., died Nov. 19, 1983, in Salisbury,
N.C. He served as treasurer of the North Carolina
Lutheran Synod for 53 years and was a devoted
Rotarian for 58 years.

WADDELL ALEXANDER MCKNIGHT died June 3,
1984. He was a freelance photagrapher in Los
Angeles, Calif., until his retirement about 20 years
ago when he returned to Tucker, Ark.

1927

BLAYNEY TOWNLEY WALSHE JR. died May 11,
1984. He was employed by Atlantic Electric Co.
for 44 years, the last 24 of which he was
superintendent of purchasing and stores. Walshe
was a member of the Philadelphia Purchasing
Association, the National Association of Purchas-
ing Agents, and a past president of the Old South
Jersey Purchasing Agents organization. He had
served as vestry warden for the St. James Episcopal
Church in Atlantic City and was a member of
Christ’s Church in Somers Point.

 

1929

EARL ABBATH FITZPATRICK, who represented
Roanoke in the Virginia General Assembly for 22
years and was a state highway commissioner, died
June 22, 1984. A Roanoke lawyer, he served in
the state House of Delegates from 1938 to 1946
and in the state Senate from 1948 to 1960. He also
served as president of the Roanoke Bar Associa-
tion. He was named to the State Highway Com-
mission in 1965 and represented the commission’s
Salem district until 1973. In addition to his duties
with the highway commission, he was appointed
by the governor and local authorities to a variety
of boards and commissions. Fitzpatrick was an
elder and trustee of Second Presbyterian Church.
As one of the great players in W&L football
history, he was named to the All-South Atlantic
Team from 1925 to 1928 and later received
honorable mention by the National Football Hall
of Fame.

1931

NoaH SPEARS HINTON died on Aug. 8, 1983, in
Orange Park, Fla. Formerly of Ashland, Ky., Hin-
ton was a retired accountant with Ashland Oil and
Refining Co. He was a member of the First
Presbyterian Church of Winchester, Ky.

JOHN LAIRD JACOB, retired vice president of Dol-
ly Hosiery Mills, Inc., died June 20, 1983, in
Valdese, N.C. He was a past director of Lenoir
Hosiery Mills and Dolly Mills, trustee of Valdese
High School, chairman of the Burke County draft
board, president of the local Lions Club and a
deacon in the Presbyterian Church.

BALDWIN Morris OsowlITz, retired owner of B.M.
Osowitz Insurance agency, died June 15, 1984, in
Lake Worth, Fla.

1932

PAUL HAMILTON WOFFORD JR., past vice president
of Cherokee Flooring Corp. in Burlington, N.C.,
died March 24, 1984.

1933

EDWIN Henry BACcon, retired senior vice presi-
dent of Marsh & McLennon, Inc., international
insurance brokers, died June 12, 1984. He was a
trustee for various United Way agencies, a member
of the Noonday Club and the University Club of
St. Louis, a vestryman and senior warden at St.
Peter’s Episcopal Church and a member of the
board of directors of a St. Louis hospital.

1934

RICHARD WALTER GRAFTON died July 13, 1984, in
Fort Myers, Fla., where he has lived for the past
14 years. Formerly of Trenton, N.J., Grafton
worked with the New York Life Insurance Co. for
the past 49 years. Grafton had chartered life under-
written designation and won the National Quali-

ty Award for the past 29 years. He was active in
the Methodist Church, the Masonic Lodge, the
Civitan Club and the Association of Life
Underwriters.

1935

RICHMOND W. SMITH of Cincinnati, Ohio, died on
July 14, 1984.

1938

STUART M. REYNOLDs died on May 16, 1984, in
Anniston, Ala. He was business manager for a
five-man doctor group after retiring from Alabama
Pipe Co. where he had been chief accountant. A
former captain in the U.S. Air Force, Reynolds
was active in the Episcopal Church, the Kiwanis
Club, and the Anniston Country Club.

1941

JOHN DICKINSON DURHAM died Oct. 13, 1982, in
Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was project coordinator
for CNI International, a firm that builds new
department stores world-wide. He was a life
member, captain and president of two volunteer
fire departments and was a past member of the
Community Advisory Council. He was a Boy
Scout counselor for more than 20 years and serv-
ed as a vestryman and warden of St. John’s
Episcopal Church.

1942

FREDERICK KENNEDY RIPPETOE died June 12, 1984,
in Charleston, W.Va. after a long illness. He was
an attorney with the law firm Savage, Goshorn,
MacCorkle & Rippetoe. He was a former commis-
sioner of accounts in Kanawha County and a
member of the First Presbyterian Church.

1947

FRED L. Coover Jr., supervisor of accounting,
payables, and communications for Crown Cork
and Seal Co., Inc., of Baltimore, died on March
17, 1984. A former corporal in the U.S. Marine
Corps, Coover had been payroll supervisor for the
Baltimore County Board of Education and assis-
tant director of the Baltimore City Hospitals. He
was active in the Masonic Lodge, the Methodist
Church, and the Sons of the American Revolution.

1952

HAROLD WILLIAM RICE died May 7, 1984, in
Dunedin, Fla.

1978

PETER HAMILTON Mor ey died on Nov. 29, 1983,
in Tulsa, Okla. He was an independent geologist,
a member of the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists, and St. John’s Episcopal
Church in Tulsa. He had received a graduate
degree in geology from the University of Tulsa.

 

 

Professor Drake

 

For the record

Yes, we can tell Professor Fran Drake and former Dean Bill Watt apart.
Unhappily, we failed to prove that in the July edition of the Alumni Magazine
when the two men were misidentified. Just for the record, we’ll try again below.

 

Dean Watt

 

 

41

And furthermore .. .

Letters to the Editor

Editor:

I received my magazine yesterday and read
it with interest. Obviously it centered around
the coed issue. In the main part I thought
that it was treated fairly, openly, and both
sides well represented. What disturbed me
was the attitude of many of the alumni. They
acted as if something of great value was
taken from them. Although I actively sup-
ported single sex at Washington and Lee, I
do not understand that emotion. (In general
I appreciate Pat Hinely’s letter most of all.)
W&L provided me with tremendous
resources that have stood the test of graduate
school, my career with IBM, my marriage,
our new family, and, in general, a life ina
changing and challenging world. No decision
of the Board could change or take away that
gift. In return I give money and support our
school—a very small price to pay. Those who
feel that, with the coed decision, they will
deny our school such support are truly leav-
ing when Washington and Lee most needs
them. The differences that W&L had, and
has, are not simply that there were no women
but academics, the Honor System, the facul-
ty, and the people who attend. It is now more
important that the spirit of excellence con-
tinues and, indeed, grows stronger.

A change has been made; some things of
value are gone, but there is more to look for
in the future. Confidence in the future seems
to me to be what W&L is all about. Personal-
ly, I am glad that the Trustees did not look
to the ‘‘truly wealthy’’ alumni to bail them
out of this decision or merely hope that the
future would work out for the best. They saw
problems ahead and took actions to meet
them head on—which is precisely what we
elect them to do.

I will continue to support Washington
and Lee all the more. I hope others whose
belief in the University is not frozen in the
past will also continue. Besides, now my
children may receive W&L’s advantages, not
merely my son.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER, 773
Rochester, N.Y.

Editor:

I am somewhat dismayed at the
breastbeating and howling against the wind
displayed by some alumni who wrote in

42

baleful condemnation of the recent decision
in favor of coeducation at Washington and
Lee. Before going on, I should mention that
I was among the 40 percent who responded
to the alumni poll and that, following com-
pletion of all the recommended reading on
the subject, my position remained against the
admission of women students at the
undergraduate level. If I would condemn any
part of the information gathering that pro-
ceeded this historic decision, it would be the
very slanted questionnaire we alumni were
handed as the instrument of our vote.

However, I do not assume that those en-
trusted with the continuity and future welfare
of the University acted rashly or without due
consideration of the issues. Just because I do
not agree with the outcome, I will not con-
demn those who, I believe, acted according
to the dictates of conscience and in good
faith with the trust placed in them. It is their
University, too.

We must hold the W&L ‘‘family’’
together and go forward in harmony, despite
differences of opinion. That is what has
made our nation and our University endure
through all previous tests of time and adver-
sity. If, and I stress the ‘‘if,’? we have met
our Appomattox, then let us meet the occa-
sion with the same dignity and presence that
was displayed by General Lee.

The recurring theme of letters published
in the July issue [of the Alumni Magazine]
seems to decry the destruction of ‘‘the W&L
we all knew.’’ What a preposterous presump-
tion to think that each of us, from Lee’s time
forward, could have shared an identical
‘“‘W&L experience.’’ All of that is in the
mind’s eye, or in the ears of the listener at
fireside enjoying the ritual of communing in
folklore. I daresay each person who shared
the same four years in Lexington would
visualize and describe that term differently,
so how can any of us assume that our ex-
perience has been the same and characterize
it with properties enabling it to endure
against the influences of passing time and
changes in the surrounding culture? Lee was
anything but a reactionary, so let us not be
reactionary in his name.

Yes, I was troubled by the debate and the
eventual decision to evolve into a coeduca-
tional institution. It stirred me to memories

 

 

Pa

ann

a~ wane Or ee

ame a

Whi kiss ee

2224 2 2224 24 4 2.4.4 2 @ 4 24 2.4 8.44

of what Washington and Lee was like when
I was there. Among the highlights, I am
thrilled to recall the oratory of James G.
Leyburn. What incredible images he invok-
ed of the ancient world and its great per-
sonalities, conflicts, and issues. I remember
how much I used to enjoy the dry and
benignly cynical humor of Jim Boatwright,
who was a freshman assistant professor of
English when I was blushing with indigna-
tion under the hated, navy-blue freshman
beanie. Then there was Francis Drake. He
habitually turned a routine grammar lesson
into a performance by Chevalier. I noted his
retirement this year with far more regret than
the decision that is currently getting so much
attention. And I recall Edgar Spencer giv-
ing passing mention during a geology lecture,
simply for the sake of interest, to the theory
that the earth as we know it today might have
been formed by the drifting of continents
upon plates from one, central jig-saw puz-
zle of landmass to the several we now live
upon. That theory had three others ahead of
it in the opinion of the experts of the
mid-60’s. In 20 short years, it is now
acknowledged fact.

So, in the face of contemporary change
so drastic as the total acceptance of a once
‘‘amusing’’ thought concerning the forma-
tion of our planet, isn’t this other business
something of a tempest in a teapot? Well,
perhaps not. It will become a threat to the
University only if we insist upon turning a
stepping stone into a stumbling block, strut-
ting about rending garments and threaten-
ing withdrawal of essential financial support
because the dusty drapes have been ripped
from the closed windows of our ‘‘private
club.’’ Gentlemen, those days are long over,
anyway, so we might just as well not bring
the columns of the Colonnade tumbling
down over our heads in a self-destructive
parody of ‘‘Gotterdammerung.’’

I have a 13-year-old son who wants to be
a doctor and who speaks of going to college
at Stanford University. His maternal grand-
father, a highly-respected, retired surgeon in
the Bay Area, has had his part in that. I also
have an l1l-year-old daughter whose per-
sonality indicates to me that she will pro-
bably want to stay in the more traditional en-
vironment of the East and perhaps the

Na tenia LO a a

South. I would much prefer that she ex-
perience the more broadened outlook of a
‘‘new’’ Washington and Lee than some of
the neighboring women’s colleges (with all
due apologies to our sister institutions).
If, on a summer’s day in the coming
decade, I am privileged to pose in a group
photograph on the lawn, seated in front of
a daughter triumphantly garbed in cap and
gown, I will rejoice in being able to add that
memory to my ‘‘Washington and Lee ex-
perience.’’ Thus, to paraphrase one letter of
criticism, it is important to be thoughtful of
the past, but more important to be ever-
mindful of the future. Non incautus futuri.
PETER J. STELLING, ‘65
Atlanta, Ga.

Editor:

Enclosed is a copy of a letter I have writ-
ten to James Ballengee, Rector of the Univer-
sity’s Board of Trustees, in response to the
Board’s recent decision to admit women as
undergraduates in 1985. I would appreciate
your making it public because I believe he
and his fellow board members deserve the
public acknowledgement of appreciation and
thanks:

Dear Mr. Ballengee:

I have just received your letter announc-
ing the Board’s decision to admit women as
undergraduates in 1985. I congratulate you
and your colleagues on a courageous deci-
sion. I imagine it must have been a difficult
one in the light of the reactions of alumni
and students to the possibility. Despite the
emotional resistance expressed, you seem to
have based your judgment on rational and
practical grounds. In the climate surrounding
this particular issue, that bespeaks great
courage, indeed.

I am doubly gratified that you have taken
this action because it disproves a private fear
I had. You may be aware that I expressed
my feelings concerning coeducation at W&L
in a letter published in the May issue of the
Alumni Magazine in which I stressed my
dismay at the non-rational pleas to maintain
the single-sex tradition. In the same issue, the
results of the coeducation survey were also
published. I was sure, upon reading the
results among alumni and students, that my
call for rationality in the matter would fall
on deaf ears. I could not be more delighted
to find I was wrong. You have my deepest

and sincerest respect for a difficult job well
done.

Though only the future will tell if your
decision will be ultimately advantageous to
the University, your action is certainly the
correct one. I could see no other choice under
the circumstances prevailing in the college-
oriented student pool. You will certainly face
a barrage of condemnation from students
and alumni disappointed with your action.
Please be sure that many of us, though a
minority we may be, fully appreciate both
your decision and the conviction it took to
make it.

RICHARD E. KRAMER, ’69
New York, N.Y.

Editor:

The administration and rectors of
Washington and Lee have shown callous
disregard for the democratically expressed
sentiments of the majority of its alumni and
students on a matter of crucial importance
affecting the character of an institution
which we all love.

Regardless of how one feels about the
issue of coeducation at W&L, fairminded
people rightfully should be appalled at the
workings of the bureaucratic mind which
reflects the attitude that, regardless of what
**they’’ (alumni and students) say, ‘‘we’’ (the
administrators who run the place and the big
contributors who pay us) know what is best
for ‘‘our’’ (?) institution.

I once believed that the authority exer-
cised by those who govern W&L was deriv-
ed from the will of the continuum of the
community, past, present and future—along
the lines of the ancient Roman concept of
auctoritas (an idea, by the way, which was
instilled in me at W&L). I now know that
this is not the case, at present.

Perhaps a day will come when those in
authority have a clearer idea of their respon-
sibility to the University community. Until
that day comes, I do not feel that I can any
longer support an institution which has
betrayed its own character.

DALE E. WILLIAMS, 768
New Orleans, La.

Editor:

A few hours ago I learned of the
Trustees’ decision to change 235 years of
tradition at Washington and Lee University

by voting 17 to 7 in favor of collegiate
coeducation. I mourn this decision as I
would mourn the death of a close personal
friend. The character of Washington and Lee
has for me been a living force, founded in
the principles of honor and achievement, and
also in the camaraderie of its students, facul-
ty, and alumni. The singular qualities of
W&L—its size, its notion of ‘‘work hard,
play hard,’’ the special cachet of its
‘*sentlemen’’—created an academic environ-
ment that has profoundly influenced me. The
W&L experience helped define this young
man’s goals and relationships, and helped
make me what it is that I am today. In a
world frought with inconstancy and a dis-
quieting bias toward a state of inert unifor-
mity, the University’s unique aura and tradi-
tions have provided for me a real touchstone,
as well as a sense of continuity with my
youth.

The sense of loss I now feel is accom-
panied by a sense of frustration, and even
anger. How did it come to pass that the
Trustees could ignore the 2-1 margin against
coeducation in the alumni poll and the
similar margin in the student survey? Is not
the University a democratic community of
persons beyond the administration and facul-
ty? Why has it been that new Trustee ballots
never included the nominees’ views on im-
portant issues such as coeducation? Indeed,
were the announced results of today’s
Trustee vote the same as any first balloting,
and was the deck stacked in this issue? Why
did coeducation suddenly become so vital to
the University’s viability, while I, as a loyal
and supportive alumnus learned nothing of
its contemplation until a few short months
ago when the November Alumni Magazine
was delivered (many weeks late, in my case)?
Furthermore, I question the timing of the
very consideration of coeducation under the
auspices of a new President with less than
two year’s association with a heritage as old
and deep as W&L’s. How can it be that the
school is proclaimed to be at ‘‘grave risk’’
demographically when it fails to capitalize
on offers of time and experience to assist in
the pursuit of qualified applicants (in addi-
tion to solicitations for annual checks and
estate considerations)? Indeed, can it be that
today’s Trustee vote for coeducation is ir-
revocable? I feel, as part of the W&L com-
munity, that many questions surrounding to-

43

Letters to the Editor

day’s events should be addressed in a man-
ner completely dissimilar to the fait accompli
of coeducation.

I have and will continue to believe that
the all-men’s collegiate alternative is viable
and valuable in American education, and im-
portantly, that this option worked at W&L.
To me, the purpose of Washington and Lee
has been to instill the ideal of pragmatic,
ethical achievement in the University’s
students. This ideal, within the unique
framework and history of the school,
translated into the sound preparation of
W&L men for their professional and social
futures. The University I have known fulfill-
ed its mission, and I truly believe its
graduates—relative to their peers—to be
both successful and content in their lives. Un-
fortunately, I sincerely question the ability
of the school to maintain its tradition and
the essence of its collegiate experience in a
coed environment. There truly is a critical
mass at W&L—its 1,350 students are not
Princeton or Dartmouth or Williams or
Virginia—that supports its ‘‘academic
village,’’ its fraternities and athletics (I per-
sonally will miss the excitement of W&L’s
national lacrosse presence), its relations with
its neighboring schools, and its other infra-
institutions. And, very importantly, I ques-
tion whether a university the size of W&L
can afford the financial disaffection of any
part of its alumni. |

Sadly, I feel that a friend I knew and sup-
ported well is passing on. Perhaps a polite
relationship with the changed school will
evolve, perhaps not, but the W&L of 1985
will never replace or realize the devotion and
sense of identification that I feel for the
Washington and Lee of 1749 to 1984. My
memory of what has been and my sense of
what ought to be lives on—Rest in Peace, old
friend.

BERNARD C. GricsBy, II, ’72
New York, N.Y.

Editor:

The majority of the student body and
two-thirds of the alumni oppose coeducation
at Washington and Lee. In spite of this, the
Trustees voted for coeducation in 1985.
WHY?

A routine Board letter said the action was
taken because there may be a shortage of
good students applying to W&L. This is not

+4

the case here, and Washington and Lee
received a serious operation for a disease it
does not have.

Reliable information from ‘‘Aunt Ger-
trude’’ reveals the school president (not a
W&L man) expressed his coed stand to the
press, faculty, and trustees before the Board
met to make the coeducation decision. He
also had a vote on the question. ‘‘Gertrude’’
also states the Rector is a coed man and
selected study groups of his own philosophy.
This raises questions of ethics and conflict
of interests.

The destruction of the traditonal
Washington and Lee by reducing the male
population by one half and adding a like
number of females to ‘‘spice up’’ the educa-
tional program is not acceptable to most of
us.

There are W&L people still interested in
W&L. It might be helpful if you would state
the real reason for the Trustees’ recent
behavior. Please list the names of the
Trustees, how they voted, and if they are
W&L graduates. How many W&L men are
on the faculty? The information we have is
not clear. I believe the alumni would like to
see you print out in your magazine answers
to the question raised in this note. Maybe we
could understand a little better the
Washington and Lee of today.

Please let me hear from you.

JOHN T. (JACK) JARRETT, 734
Richmond, Va.

(The reasons for the Trustees’ decision on
coeducation, along with other relevant infor-
mation and viewpoints on the subject were
printed in the July 1984 issue of the Alumni
Magazine on pages 1-15.

The names of the University’s Trustees
were printed in the May 1984 issue of the
Alumni Magazine on page 3. Of the Board’s
25 members, all are alumni except President
Wilson, Mr. Ross Millhiser, and Mrs.
Frances Lewis. All but one Trustee voted on
the question; the Board authorized disclosure
of the vote, 17-7, but did not announce how
individuals voted.

There are 27 alumni among those who
hold faculty rank at Washington and Lee,
including two (one man and one woman)
whose law degree only is from the Universi-
ty. Four other law school professors have
undergraduate W&L degrees. Three of the
27 are members of the athletic staff, in-
cluding the Director of Athletics. Of the 18
alumni professors in the College and School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics,
eight are heads of departments. There are 13
alumni among the administrators who do not
have academic rank.

The alumni survey results, printed in the
May 1984 issue show that 40.6 percent (6,697
of 16,500 alumni of record who received the
questionnaire) returned the form for tabula-
tion. The majority of alumni did not indicate
one way or another how they stood on the
issue. Of those who did, 58.5 percent (3,918)
indicate opposition to coeducation.

President Wilson did indeed reveal his
thoughts on coeducation well in advance of
the July meeting in which the Trustees decid-
ed the question. His background paper,
‘Taking Thought on Coeducation’’ was
printed in the November 1983 issue of the
Alumni Magazine, pages 5-13.

Perhaps Aunt Gertrude will let us hear
from her directly. We’ll print her side,
too.—Ed.)

 

 

 

 

 
  
 

Show

your

colors!

The Washington and Lee University
Bookstore proudly presents new and
classic items with University Spirit.

A1 WAL tie in your choice of navy,
green, or grey. Dry cleanable
polyester. $12.99

A2 Handsome three-color enamel
crest adorns the brass buckle of this
three belt set. (Belts are red, blue,
and tan webbing). $13.99 the set.
A3 A blue and white W&L umbrella
with wooden handle, $11.00.

Large golf size, $20.49.

A4 Great comfort in a navy blue twin
size blanket. 90% wool/10% nylon,
trimmed in silver-grey satin. Dry
clean. $54.00

AS Royal blue scarf for winter, in
washable acrylic knit. $5.39

A6 A set of four highball glasses

 

 

 

 

etched with the crest, in a gift box
designed to avoid breakage. $16.50
a set.

A7 A set of four double old-
fashioned glasses etched with the
crest, in a gift box designed to avoid
breakage. $16.50 a set.

A8 Classic knit shirt with the athletic
logo. 50% polyester/50% cotton.
Choice of navy with grey embroidery,
or green with gold. Sizes S,M,L,XL.
$17.50

A9 Orlon sweater for cool days.
Classic V-neck with contrasting em-
broidery: navy with cream or creamy-
white with navy. Sizes S,M,L,XL.
$27.59.

 

 

A4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bere
iis
Maa te

B1

B3 Scenes of Washington and Lee
silkscreened onto polyester crepe in
a versatile 10’’x40’’ scarf. White with
navy and accents of gold. $13.95.

B4 The W&L crest in counted cross
stitch. Kit includes fabric, instructions
and embroidery floss. $9.99.

B5 The Colonnade in a 14 x 14
needlepoint kit. Yarns are 100% wool.

 

    
  
  
   

 

   
   
   
   
   
     
   

 

   

 

 

   

 

 

B2

B1 Hooded robe for her, in 50%
cotton/50% creslan. Select purple, blue
or aqua in $,M,L. No XL available.
$27.95.

B2 Hooded nightshirt for her in 50%
cotton/50% polyester knit. Purple, blue,
or aqua in S,M,L,XL. $13.95. A

 

B6

 

B6 Our own baby bib. $3.99.

B7 Evenflo baby bottle with W&L
logo. $4.95.

B8 One size hooded baby sweater
with back zipper. $11.65.

B9 WA&L booties to match. $4.95.

B10 Child-sized hooded, light
weight knit shirt. White or navy 50%
cotton/50% polyester. Sizes 2T, 3T,
4T. $8.25. Sizes 6,7,8. $8.95.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Prt ee a
meta Cbs

EE

 

B11 B12

B11 Youth sweatshirt in navy, 50% cotton/50%
polyester, sizes S (6-8), M (10-12), L (14-16).
$10.95.

B1i1b (not shown) Youth sweatpants to match.

Sizes S,M,L. $8.95.

B12 New for us, a half-zip hooded sweatshirt, 50%
cotton/50% polyester in your choice of navy or grey.
Sizes (adult) S,M,L,XL. $20.95.

 
 
 
 
 
    

ts

Pa) x

we eee Pt a
ee

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

B13 For her: a white
hooded sweatshirt
trimmed in bright aqua,
raspberry, or royal
blue. Hood is lined
to match. 50% cot-
ton/50% polyester.
sizes S,M,L,XL.
$19.95.

B14 White long-
sleeved 100% cot-
ton shirt with wide
angle photo of the
colonnade by °84
graduate Charles
Mason. White only.
sizes S,M,L,XL.
$12.95.

B15 Our most
popular hooded ~
sweatshirt, with the r |
athletic logo. Choose navy with white or whit 1
with navy imprint. 50% creslan acrylic/50% ol |

cotton. Sizes S,M,L,XL. $18.95. B20 Navy plastic coffee mug - B17

B16 The heaviest sweatshirt ever, with raglan with white W&L wrap. $3.35.

sleeves. Grey only in 89% cotton/8% B21 Sturdy plastic mug in your choice of cinnamon or navy. -
acrylic/3% rayon. Sizes S,M,L,XL. $27.95. $3.95.

B17 Washington And Lee Country Club (!) B22 W&L cocktail napkins. Navy logo, 250 count pack. $2.69.

hat. Adjustable. vente or navy. $8.00. B23 Gold W&L crest on navy, white playing cards — double
B18 Nylon running shorts with liner. Blueor deck, in acrylic case. $8.25.

ae ala os NL ea. B24 Grain cups. Choice of royal blue or white. $.75 each or
B19 China coffee mug with two-color crest. 5 for $3.00.

$5.95.

 
   
      

   
 

  

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

B25 Engraved three-color crest on white informal. 24 sheets,
envelopes. $4.20.

B26 Engraved letter-size stationery. White with
three-color crest. 48 engraved sheets, 24 plain, 48
envelopes. $7.90.

B26b (not shown) Engraved letter size stationery.
Tan with gold crest. 24 engraved sheets, 12 plain,
24 envelopes. $3.70.

B27 Disposable lighter. A great stocking stuffer in
} your choice of red, blue, green or yellow. $1.69.
B28 Plastic hip flask, 8 oz. $3.49.

B29 Bumper sticker: W&L is THE University of Virginia. $.79.
B30 Bumper sticker: See U.S. News and World Report! $1.00.
B31 Decal for inside of windshield, three-color crest. $.59.
B32 Logo decal for inside of windshield. $.59.

B33 Law School decal for inside of windshield $.69.

B34 Washington and Lee University decal for inside of windshield, 23’’
long. $.79.

B35 License plate holder in blue and Boo

white with chrome trim. C
$3.95 ea. y

B36 A unique item for W&L:

The ‘‘Genuine Mink Towel’’ is actually

100% cotton and is available in three

sizes: a golf or hand towel, with or without
brass grommet, $5.25: bath size, $7.50; and

a comfortable beach towel, $18.50.

 

 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

B36

 

 

      

C1 Elegance in a _ plate!
Regal blue surrounds crest of
22K gold. 10 %’’ diameter
plate has capsule history of
W&L on back. Handsome gift
box. $69.95.

C2 Wé&L Blazer buttons,
blue and white enamel on gold
plate. $49.95 the set.

C3 Three color crest on a
watch dial. Quartz with calen-

dar feature, metal band.
$70.00.
C4 Three color crest,

quartz, round face, leather-
look strap. $60.00.

C5 Three color crest, pro-
tected by epoxy on the suede
leather fob of this key chain.
$3.95.

‘\ ; C6 Horseshoe key ring in

The Architecture of
Historic Lexington

 

 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  

C11

X

Yin % “C13 Architecture in Lexington Authors: Pamela
1 op. \. Simpson, W&L Asst. Dean of the College &
in in NX Royster Lyle, Marshall Library, with photos
Be yf by Sally Munger Mann. Cloth $19.50.

£08 aS ay (no Alumni discount, sorry).
yg tgs C14 Washington and Lee Glee
po Ay Club in Concert. 83 ed. LP

(> G, % ‘

Oey “Record $8.00. Also available

4? > “Southern Comfort...On

6 & ‘

Oo
ye \

C13 Lets THE WAS

gold-tone, $9.55 or silver,
$8.10. Gift boxed.

C7 Split keyring in gold-
tone or silver. Gift boxed.
$8.49.

C8 Zippo lighter with two
color crest. Gift boxed. Tradi-
tional shape $8.29 or slim
Shape. $9.59.

C9 Lost your College Ring?
Ask us for information and
prices on a new one. We deal
with Artcarved and Josten.
Traditional or Signet available
in a variety of styles.

C10 Only two universities
have their own stamp — and
W&L is one! Set of four mat-
ted and framed in brass. Your
choice of 5’’ x 7’’ at $19.95,
or 8’’ x 10’ at $29.95.

C14

 

IN CONCERT

C16

General Lee’s College: The Rise and Growth of Washington and
\ Lee University by late W&L History Dept. Chairman, Ollinger Cren-
\ shaw. Cloth $10.00. 10% discount to Alumni.

\ C12 Lee The Last Years Signed by author, Charles B. Flood.

\ W&L’s post-Civil War development under Lee’s Presiden-
\% cy, thoroughly and enjoyably discussed. Cloth $14.95.
“ 10% discount to Alumni.

\

C15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ERS: Gk Bie 1p, SURE BRS STS SPO RE PS
Beat. e ewe YLT erie me ‘ gies :
et ae Y ese ye rae oeR %
Bure is SP eMae aeeaw
ae a5) Ah tA
oo a "4 a
i : tien Aly :
a” oe se

ee

     
 
   

          

 

 

 

the Rocks. LP Record $8.00.

C15 Summer at Washington &
Lee. Color photo poster 16 x 21 by
Charles Mason, °84. $5.50 (with
mailing tube).

C16 Colonnade & Front Campus
— print by Rich Ahern 8% x 18
black and white $4.00. Hand
tinted/double matted $24.95. 11 x
2/7 black & white $8.00. Hand
tinted/double matted $62.95.

Photos By Mason
September 1984

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

 

 

HVOCNVNAHS

& ON ATXXX “LOA

 

 

Shenandoah

$2.50

—— and poems from Shenan-
doah are chosen regularly for in-
clusion in the O. Henry Awards
for distinguished fiction; the
Pushcart Prize: Best of the Small
Presses; The Random Review:
anthology of the best American
writing appearing in U.S.
magazines; and The Best
American Short Stories, publish-
ed by Houghton Mifflin Co.

 

 

 

 

Girt cards will be sent, on re-
quest, to those for whom you
wish to purchase subscriptions
for Christmas or other special
times.

Me
AS
We are happy to inform

you that you will

receive

Shenandoah

as a gift of

 

 

 

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review

Box 722
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to Shenandoah (published quarterly)

L] One year @ $8 L) Two years @ $13

L] Three years @ $18

 

 

 

 

My check for $ enclosed.

Name

Address

City State Zip

66

You are the best “‘little’ magazine in the
country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

I go on admiring /Shenandoah]j, none in the
country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

The most dramatic example [of writers turn-
ing to small presses] in this present volume is
the late Jean Stafford’s last story, ““Woden’s
Day,’ (published in Shenandoah). It’s a section
from her unfinished autobiographical novel
“A Parliament of Women’... and it
displays the . . . writing that used to earn Staf-
ford space in... The New Yorker. Thank
goodness, therefore, for Shenandoah . . .

—Bruce Allen, reviewing The Pushcart
Prize VI: Best of the Small Presses in
The Christian Science Monitor,

Aug. 10, 1981

William Abrahams, editor of the O. Henry
Prize Stories collection [observes]
that . . . Ploughshares, Kenyon Review, and
Shenandoah, for instance . . . put out as high
a quality story as The New Yorker.

—Coda, Poets & Writers Newsletter,
April/May 1983

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories ... Sixteen were first published
in... little magazines, . . . (Shenandoah),
for example, one of the best of these
magazines, from which I have taken two
stories .. .).

—William Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

I can think offhand of only two or three
university-financed reviews in which the im-
pact of a strong editorial personality has
created a vital magazine. The examples that
come to mind [include] . . . the elegant and
rather patrician standards James Boatwright
has given to Shenandoah at Washington and
Lee.

—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America:
A Modern Documentary History
(TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

99

 

 

 

 

 

 

The ‘Alias Mayasine of age, WS LO NR PR {3
_ WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY | eS to he ie said Nin Offices my
(USPS 667-040) a ae ve oe ,
Lange Virginia 24450

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

 

 

 

 

 

