 

 

(APRN rece
ton and Lee

we a

  

  
   

Sia

SELATAN

 

  
 
  

 

 

 

Homecoming ’85

and

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion
October 11-12

Friday, October I]

e 4:00 p.m.—The John Randolph Tucker Lecture, Lewis Hall

e 5:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming Queen Court, Alumni House
e 8:00 p.m.—Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

Saturday, October 12

e 11:30 a.m.—Cross Country—Generals vs. Catholic University, Wilson Field
e 11:30 p.m.—Alumni Luncheon, Athletic Fields

e 1:30 p.m.—Football: Generals vs. Maryville College, Wilson Field

e 4:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception, Alumni House

For more information, write:
Homecoming ’85
Washington & Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 60, Number 4, August 1985

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

JOYCE HaArRIs, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 750, President
Baltimore, Md.

RicE M. TILLEY Jr., ’58, Vice President
Fort Worth, Texas

CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Treasurer
Martinsburg, W.Va.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. NaT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 44
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarpD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73
Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD JrR., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

W. DANIEL MCGREw Jpr., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50
New York, N.Y.

HENRY NorttTserc III, ’71
Kansas City, Mo.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JrR., 758, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

JOHN Poynor, 62
Birmingham, Ala.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L
Chicago, Ill.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class
postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Copyright © 1985 Washington and Lee University

 

On the Inside

 

 

The Class of (17)85

 

It Never Rains

 

A Matter of Perspective

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 Computers and the Liberal Arts
14 ~=Life on the Moon

19 Correcting History

21 A New Drug Policy

22 W&L Gazette

29 Generals’ Report

 

31

Chapter News

 

34

A Springtime Album

 

36

Class Notes

 

42

In Memoriam

 

tj

And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: University Marshal Westbrook Barritt
prepares to lead the academic procession at commencement.
Photo by Sally Mann

 

The Class of ’85

 

Celebrating the Anniversary of Liberty Hall’s Ist Commencement

 

by Taylor Sanders

Two hundred years ago this spring, the Trustees of Liberty
Hall met at their new frame classroom building, where the
ruins stand today. The Board selected September 14, 1785, as
the date for the college’s first commencement ceremony. This
year we are celebrating that decision and honoring those first
12 graduates of our college.

When the first commencement was held, the college pro-
gram, based on the curriculum at John Witherspoon’s
Princeton, had been in operation at Liberty Hall for a decade.
All the men selected to receive diplomas had finished the col-
lege program some years before, some having had their educa-
tion interrupted by Revolutionary service. In age they ranged
from mid-30s to early 20s—a cluster of them were born in the
early 1750s. Two were either former or acting tutors and two
others were members of our Board. Those first 12 graduates
later achieved an outstanding record of service for subsequent
classes to emulate. They included a governor, several state
legislators, judges, a general, distinguished clergymen, and
three college presidents.

At Liberty Hall they mastered a respectable level of Greek
and Latin, studied the arts of written and oral communication
(all examinations were oral), delivered numerous public ora-
tions, and composed critical essays. They explored the
mysteries of trigonometry and conic sections and had per-
formed a variety of scientific experiments with air pumps,
solar microscopes, and barometers. Their education never
neglected the practical, as students had an opportunity to
study surveying and orienteering. Their math problems were
taken from practical, everyday examples.

During their final year of study students translated the
classics, polished skills in rhetoric, criticism, and logic, and
focused on two capstone courses, Mental Philosophy (or
Psychology) and Moral Philosophy, the ‘‘science of dealing
with the laws and duties of morals.’’ The latter included
material drawn from the embryonic social sciences (which later
became anthropology, economics, law, sociology, and political
science—it was an integrated investigation into public and
private ethics).

 

Editor’s Note: The first Liberty Hall graduates were the subject of
remarks that University Historian Taylor Sanders presented at a ceremony
celebrating the first commencement. The ceremony was held at Liberty Hall
for members of the Class of 1985 and their families on the evening prior
to this year’s commencement. This article is adapted from those remarks.
The most comprehensive study of the first class is by Charles N. Watson
Jr., who graduated from W&L in 1975. As an undergraduate he conducted
research into the topic under the direction of Professor Sanders. He publish-
ed a paper, entitled ‘‘The First Graduating Class of Liberty Hall Academy, ”’
in volume nine of the Rockbridge Historical Society Proceedings (Lexington,
1982), pp. 35-50. Sanders’ talk drew on Watson’s work. The photograph
(left) of the ceremony was taken by Sally Mann.

Our first graduates may well have attended some of their
lectures with women, since William Graham, the chief pro-
fessor, had a habit of opening his lectures to intelligent young
women from the surrounding neighborhood. Among our early
alumni were two men who became the founders of the earliest
female academies in Kentucky and Tennessee. Graham, who
forged his own system of psychology, based on the Common
Sense philosophers of the Scottish Enlightenment, also used
Witherspoon’s Princeton lectures on Moral Philosophy.

Graham, by the way, had roomed at Princeton with
‘*Light-Horse Harry’’ Lee, forging the first link in that fateful
chain that joined the college to the Lee family and George
Washington. The chain was strengthened in that early period,
prior to the Washington gift. Both of Robert E. Lee’s grand-
parents donated money to the struggling academy, as did five
of Virginia’s signers of the Declaration of Independence, in-
cluding George Wythe, Benjamin Harrison, and Thomas Jef-
ferson. But the school, which began college-level studies in
1776 and was chartered by the state in 1782, had no real en-
dowment in those early days and survived largely on student
fees.

Students, who paid ten pounds for board and four pounds
for tuition each year, used Graham’s own manuscript of
Witherspoon’s lectures. Carefully copying the notes, they
mastered this material for each lecture before meeting with
Graham for a hard-nosed tutorial on the topic, which ranged
from agrarian, international, and family law, to demography,
ancient history, constitutional analysis, and political economy.

Witherspoon and Graham believed that educated men,
whatever their vocations, were obligated to serve society, as
well as themselves. And our early students were interested in
doing both: particularly the latter in those materialistic and
uncertain post-Revolutionary days. As one early graduate put
it, most students were planning to study law, because it was
the quickest ‘‘road to preferment and emolument.’’ More than
one-third of the students who attended the college in the 1780s
became lawyers (about a quarter became preachers).

The students who attended the school in the 1780s were
lively lads. They got into trouble for burning neighboring
farmers’ crops, stealing beehives, overturning privies, starting
fights at the courthouse, playing cards, and impersonating the
devil. They grew up, however, to make important contribu-
tions from the pulpit and in public service. In addition to the
preachers, their numbers included college presidents and pro-
fessors, a half-dozen state legislators, newspapermen, several
physicians (including one who did his graduate work in
Scotland), congressmen, and one U.S. Supreme Court justice.

That first class of 1785 included a fascinating array of
characters—Freethinkers and Federalists, preachers and

W&L 3

 

 

 

| W&L "sentleman,” he was noted for his “courtly der m a
neat dress, 3 and his s polite, ennai behavior.

winning a a reputation 2 as one of 0 our most able e professors, he
aco ® the president o of the institution that later bec: e

became ue of ioe A Am
of theology. Others, lik
(who died Peels a)

was eulogized as
aoe ”

ly graduates, he
lox clothes. Few
ner preachers spot g fats with bright
blankets “draped over tt
When a frontier frienc

tract Indians, he said that h
would protect him from har

a brace of pistols and was among ent
“The savages | know it,’’ he added, | ‘fan

After. giving up teaching
ently Tennessee citize

 

tion for tying .
student n

him to read
class comic. I

might ¢ cause E. F. ” Hutton t to pause
speculators, including the gov
of virgin land, but sold or |
prime, but, unfortunately, 1

with the. does

 

 

 

aN -
BN PT

An artist’s rendering of
Liberty Hall Academy

(From The Architecture of Historic
Lexington; reproduced with
permission.)

4k
r LAG
oS 2 \ £5 u
. . . 7]
ye AN et = - .
: = ed ———
=) / Ly ct ~— NG
rites —— abe
wa \ ye Una ray ne
‘3 fi | RY Tat le
‘. i Ak iL
F / 7 MS Ft re: ms

  

— < -z

our school. As a Trustee from 1797 to 1830, he successfully
pursued the Society of Cincinnati endowment for the
Academy. He helped establish a long tradition of alumni sup-
port for our college, which was at that time both unique and
vulnerable, being supported financially by neither a church
nor a state.

Finally, we have our college’s first major-league eccentric,
Rev. Adam Rankin. His admirers called him a ‘‘fiery
reformer.’’ His detractors thought him ‘‘mad.’’ He was deeply
involved in theological controversies of his day, calling his
fellow clergymen (among other things) swine, robbers, deists,
hypocrites, and blasphemers. He was guided in his rebukes by
divine dreams and visions from God. Some of his most bitter
attacks were against other pastors, who were also guided by
divine dreams and visions from God. While most Presbyterian
preachers were content to appeal to the church’s general
assembly, Rankin said he appealed only to ‘‘God, the Angels
and men.’’

Rankin was also our first world traveller, going to England
for twelve months four years after graduation and studying a
mystical subject, the exact nature of which he never revealed
to anyone. He was eventually defrocked as a Presbyterian
minister for slander and libel. In 1825 a dream convinced him
that he should walk to Jerusalem to be there for the Second
Coming so he could rebuild the Holy City. He started walking
from Kentucky, but he only got as far as Philadelphia where
he died in November 1827.

Those first alumni were deeply involved in the actions and
passions of their day. Many were ardent individualists, who,
like their old teacher, became embroiled in political and
religious controversy. In class Graham had always urged them
to think for themselves. His students followed that advice—
though the radical Graham may not have been comfortable

\
WP <—e
/

CEE

      
 

eiaar
a= ae
= VA ¢
CE EGE Z
ot Zz WJ

=

LIN
eW17)

oS WPS SS
;

‘

A
Bil
CH

|

   
    
 
  
     
 
  
   

  
 

    

i 4¢.
Mga

with turning out so many Federalists.

Graham was an ardent democrat, who favored a
unicameral legislature. He opposed the federal Constitution,
and he ran—and lost only narrowly—as an anti-Federalist for
a seat at the Virginia Constitutional Convention. He also sup-
ported the Whiskey Boy Rebellion. He was burned in effigy at
least once and was nearly tarred and feathered in Harrison-
burg for his radical views.

One imagines that he was pleased that so many of his
students entered the public arena and rose to positions of in-
fluence. In part this was forced on them in small frontier
communities. At a time when only one in 600 men had ever
attended college, much less received a degree, the college
graduate was a marked man. The B.A. set him apart as a
gentleman. When he rode into town with his law book, or his
parson’s coat or schoolbooks, to set up a practice, take over a
pulpit, or build a school, he became a natural leader of the
community, if not a candidate for public office. Education
obligated.

Frontiers open to Liberty Hall students were visible each
time one walked out of his college and gazed west. Attacking
new frontiers is an old tradition among our graduates.

Another tradition, established by the Trustees the day they
examined the B.A. candidates and awarded them degrees, has
apparently passed into oblivion. Perhaps future W&L classes
could reinstate it in honor of that other Class of ’85. The
Trustees made a ‘“‘standing law,”’ as they called it, that each
student graduated should pay the rector 20 shillings before the
diploma could be signed. This was about one-quarter of the
tuition—at today’s rates, about $1750. I am sure that the
University will be more than willing to accept checks from any
of our graduates, past and future.

W&L 5

 

 

It Never Rains

 

Commencement 1985 Was a Time to

Give Thanks

 

A, they drifted toward the back cam-
pus to take their assigned positions in the
commencement line, members of
Washington and Lee’s undergraduate
Class of 1985 cast wary eyes at the dark
clouds moving in menacingly from the
West.

One nervous senior asked a bystander,

‘‘What do we do if it rains?’’

‘It doesn’t,’’ came the reply.

And it didn’t.

The sun even made a brief ap-
pearance, peering through the overcast
skies just often enough to ease the fears

of the graduates and their umbrella-toting

families and friends and to brighten the
historic occasion.

Commencement 1985 was indeed
historic—and on more than one count.

It marked the 200th anniversary of
the institution’s first commencement. In
1782, the Virginia legislature chartered
Liberty Hall Academy and empowered
the institution to grant degrees. Three
years later, Liberty Hall held commence-
ment exercises for 12 graduates. Those
first degrees were actually awarded in
September of 1785.

6 W&L

 

The University recognized the occa-
sion by staging a brief ceremony for the
Class of 1985 at the Liberty Hall ruins
on commencement eve. Taylor Sanders,
professor of history and University

historian, provided an entertaining sum-
mary of the Class of 1785. His talk is
reprinted on page 2.

This commencement was historic in
another way: it represented the last class
to graduate from an all-male
undergraduate school at W&L. In addi-
tion, it might well have been the last all-
male class to graduate. Among the
women who will enroll in the University
this fall, one woman transfer student,
Kathleen Plante, will enter with senior
status and will be eligible to receive her
degree in June of 1986.

There was no reference to this latter
bit of history during the commencement
ceremony; no reference was really
necessary. And besides, this commence-
ment, as all W&L commencements, was
primarily a celebration of the Class of
1985—a celebration of what these 290
graduating seniors had given to
Washington and Lee, and vice versa.

In delivering the traditional remarks
to the graduates, President John D.
Wilson expressed the University’s collec-
tive appreciation for what this class was
leaving behind.

 

 

Said Wilson: ‘* ... the gifts you have
given us during your time here... are
many and they are rich in meaning. I
think, in fact, that your class may be
very unusual indeed—for when I turned
my mind to it I was struck by how many
of you have given so much of yourselves
to others. That may be the
unique signature of this class.

“*! could easily and gladly thank each
member of this class for giving something
special to your University. And you
mustn’t think these gifts are ephemeral.
They last .. . . These things don’t leave
with you. They now belong to us and to
your University and we will hold them in
our memories and our hearts for many
years to come.”’’

Both Wilson and J. Coleman Dawson
III, president of the Executive Commit-
tee, recognized that the converse was true
as well, that the University had given
precious gifts to the graduates.

Speaking on behalf of the graduates,
Dawson said: ‘‘As in any college,
Washington and Lee took us from the
security of our parents and shaped and
defined the potential in each one of us.
Unlike all of those other colleges who
graduate seniors this year, however,
Washington and Lee gives us a_ broader
perspective of the world we face.

*‘In our four years here, we caught a
glimpse of what life is like in a system of

complete trust and freedom; [this is] a
school which, time and time again, em-
phasizes the importance of student self-
government. We took that responsibility
and with it we learned more and
broadened our scope and horizons.”’

The greatest gift these graduates
received, said Wilson, is ‘‘a sense of what
might be worth knowing more about.’’

Added Wilson: ‘‘You have experienc-
ed deeply the rare privilege of having
time to reflect on the curve of your
culture and to begin, at least, the task of
sorting out where, along the curve, you
can locate your own life and being.’’

In his baccalaureate sermon of the
previous day, the Rt. Rev. Peter James
Lee, a 1960 graduate of Washington and
Lee and now bishop of the Episcopal
Diocese of Virginia, had spoken to the
graduates of the biblical and republican
traditions of the University—traditions he
said challenge the graduates.

‘‘Our biblical tradition gives us lenses
through which we see the particular
challenges of our generation and the par-
ticular promises given to us to meet those
challenges,’’ said Lee.

‘‘Washington and Lee is rooted in this
biblical tradition of particularity. This in-
stitution cherishes the uniqueness of each
student and demands that each student
grow into the spacious openness of his
own future, a future he can trust.’’

Lee added that the University has
maintained ‘‘a higher, broader view of
participation in a republic.’’

‘*What you and I experienced in this
place can be seen as a microcosm of our
membership in the communities in which
we will spend the rest of our lives,’’ he
said. ‘‘Old-fashioned words like ‘honor,’
‘duty,’ ‘loyalty’ may sound antique, but
they are central to the preservation of
any community that combines high pur-
pose, personal liberty, and a shared com-
munal vision.”’

As always, commencement was a time
to celebrate the achievements of various
individuals.

David L. Harrar II was named
valedictorian of the Class of 1985 for.
finishing his four years with a cumulative
grade-point average of 4.019. That mark-
ed the second time in as many years that
a student had topped the once-magical
4.00 mark, which can now be surpassed
since the University awards plusses (and
minuses).

A native of Rydal, Pa., Harrar receiv-
ed the bachelor of science degree with
majors in mathematics and physics. He
was named in April the winner of a
prestigious National Science Foundation
Fellowship for Graduate Study and will
enter the department of applied
mathematics at the University of Virginia
this fall.

 

 

 

“\.. the gifts you
have given us are
many and they are
rich in meaning.”’
—President John D. Wilson

 

Fi Ai
‘“Washington and
Lee gives us a
broader perspective
of the world...”

—J. Coleman Dawson III

 

This institution
cherishes the
uniqueness of each

33

Student...
—Bishop Peter J. Lee

 

 

W&L 7

 

 

 

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion, which is awarded by the
faculty, went to Christopher H. Williams
of Newark, Del. The Sullivan Medallion
recognizes the graduating senior who ex-
cels ‘‘in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others.”’

Among his many contributions to the
University community during his four
years, Williams was president of Omicron
Delta Kappa, a dormitory counselor, and
co-chairman of the 1984 Superdance for
Muscular Dystrophy.

In addition to the bachelor’s degrees,
the University conferred four honorary
degrees during the commencement exer-
cises. The recipients were Dr. George B.
Craddock, ’30, a distinguished physician
from Lynchburg, Va.; the Honorable
Harold N. Hill Jr., ’52, chief justice of
the Georgia Supreme Court; Hazel O.
Williams, executive secretary and trustee
of the Jessie Ball duPont Religious,
Charitable, and Educational Fund; and
C. Vann Woodward, Sterling Professor
Emeritus of History at Yale University.

In addition to his superb professional
record, Dr. Craddock was recognized for
his long-standing devotion to Washington
and Lee—a devotion manifest in his con-
stant trips from Lynchburg to Lexington
to serve the University in a multitude of
capacities. As the citation said: ‘‘He is
renowned for his simplicity of manner, a
wry wit, and an unyielding devotion to
his own exacting standard of medical care
.... The mutual love between George
Craddock and his Alma Mater has found
expression in countless ways—almost as
numerous as the mileposts and curves
along Route 501 [between Lexington and
Lynchburg].’’ He received a doctor of
science degree.

Justice Hill, who was first appointed
to the Supreme Court of Georgia in 1975
and has been chief justice since 1985, has
been called ‘‘one of the best legal minds
in the South’’ by one of his colleagues.
The citation for Justice Hill said, in part:
‘*When he decides a case, he does so
with candor and clarity, and insists that
his fellow Justices do so too. Under
Chief Justice Hill’s leadership, the
Supreme Court of Georgia has attained a
position among the most respected high
courts in the land.’’ He received a doctor
of laws degree.

As executive secretary and trustee of
the duPont Foundation, Miss Williams
has been instrumental in developing the
Fund established in Mrs. duPont’s will

8 W&L

 

Honorary degree recipients were (from left): Harold N. Hill Jr., Chief Justice of the Georgia
Supreme Court; C. Vann Woodward, Sterling Professor Emeritus of History at Yale University,
Dr. George B. Craddock, a Lynchburg, Va., physician; and Hazel O. Williams, Executive
Secretary and Trustee of the Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund.

and designed for philanthropic support of
charitable activities, especially higher
education. As the degree citation said:
‘‘With the help and counsel of dedicated
colleagues, Hazel Williams has brought
the Jessie Ball duPont Religious,
Charitable and Educational Fund into
full blossom and broad service to worth-
while causes. The Fund is one of
America’s great charitable forces,
respected for its steadfast consistency and
vision. As a trustee of the Fund, Miss
Williams has set an example for others in
the practice of benevolent stewardship
and has directed Mrs. duPont’s interests
down new paths of service.’’ She received
the doctor of humane letters degree.
Woodward has long been considered
the pre-eminent historian of the South.
Two of his many volumes have, in par-
ticular, been honored widely. Origins of
the New South, published in 1952, won
the Bancroft Prize; Mary Chesnut’s Civil
War, which he edited in 1982, won the
Pulitzer Prize for History. In awarding
Woodward the doctor of letters degree,
the citation said: ‘‘Through many
decades of inspirational teaching in some
of the nation’s foremost universities he
has won both the acclaim and devotion
of his many students. He gathered these
honors and received his veneration with

grace and modesty, so that the man, like
his works of history, has become the ex-
ample that younger historians today
strive to emulate.’’

Two others recognized during the
ceremonies were Wilfred J. Ritz, who
retired this year after 32 years as pro-
fessor of law and was awarded emeritus
status, and Lt. Col. Harold Head, who is
retiring after 19 years as registrar.

As he concluded the ceremony,
Wilson left the graduates with a few
parting words of advice.

‘*You inherit a dangerous world,
precious in many ways, full of great pro-
mise and possibility, but deeply
dangerous, too,’’ he said. ‘‘Don’t despair
when the dark times come. Keep your
hopes high and your minds working. I
have faith in you and in the power of ra-
tional, caring people to restore sanity to
our world. That is a good life’s work for
you, whatever else you take up.”’

When the assembly was dismissed and
new graduates were congratulated by
family members and friends, they tended
to linger for a time under the shady
trees, searching out classmates and pro-
fessors for a final word or two.

The clouds were still threatening. But
the umbrellas had long since been
forgotten.

A Matter of Perspective

 

Sen. Warner Addresses Law Commencement

 

eee days before the undergraduate
commencement, the University awarded
juris doctor degrees to 128 law students
during the School of Law’s graduation
exercises.

Sen. John W. Warner (R-Va), ’49,
was the principal speaker for the law
commencement. He urged the graduates
to develop a sense of perspective.

Warner said he uses three criteria in
formulating his recommendations to the
president on candidates for federal judges
and U.S. attorneys. The first two criteria
are integrity and resilience. The third is
perspecive.

‘*You have been taught, as was I, the
skills of the profession, the technical
skills that every counselor at law requires:
how to write briefs, how to research,
how to debate, how to argue a case,”’
said Warner. ‘‘You have a sound
understanding of the legal principles
which serve as the foundation of our
society and the framework of our govern-
ment. That part of perspective you can
be taught. But the larger part of perspec-

 

Sen. John W. Warner, ’49, was the principal speaker for the School of Law’s commencement exercises in May.

tive you must learn yourself.”’

Added Warner: ‘‘Clients rely on
lawyers for more than law. Skills are im-
portant, but perspective is essential.’’

Warner said the new lawyers must ac-
cept a special obligation to broaden their
perspective by volunteering to take on
cases for those who cannot pay. He also
warned the students not to lose touch
with their communities.

He related an incident in which he
noticed an automobile with the license
plate ‘‘ISUE4U”’ and told the graduates:
‘*That is obviously a lawyer’s
automobile, and he is trying to drum up
business. That troubles me. I hope that is
not the perspective you will carry from
this great University to meet your
challenge.

‘‘Beware of the dangers of self-
imposed limits on your own abilities.
Yes, you have earned the right to
material reward, and you will win it. But
you fail Washington and Lee if that is
your only goal. America itself will surely
fail in our quest for the preservation of

 

freedom, be that individual freedom, per-
sonal freedom, or our international
freedom, if you, with the finest of educa-
tion and proven talent and the perspec-
tive you have now and will gain,
withhold your full contribution and pur-
sue ‘ISUE4U.’ ”’

The John W. Davis Prize for Law,
given to the graduate who maintained the
best record throughout the three-year law
school career, was presented to Charles
A. Blanchard of Richmond.

Other awards announced at com-
mencement included the BNA Law Stu-
dent Award to Francis D. (Mike) Shaffer
of Lexington; the Virginia Trial Lawyers
Association Award to William P.
Johnson of Roanoke; the Leonard J.
Schmelz Award to Theresa L. Markley of
Staunton; the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.
Commercial Law Award to Timothy
Scott Bucey of Avon Lake, Ohio; the
University Service Award to John J.
Sicilian of North Babylon, N.Y.; and the
Prentice-Hall Award to David Graham
Reese of Ardmore, Pa.

yall

 

OD as

al

Waa

       

ites

ERR

LESS

 
     

 

eR

   

 

SSE
Qe

RATS

   

 

RAVE

 

LAA

&

 

ARRON

 

 

 

  

 

W&L

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a Oo nn

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QUR NEXT STOP ON THE TOUR 15
MR. OLIVER WENDELL JONES...

FAMED SHORT “HACKER.” ‘00P5°?

TOPAY He’S BROKEN INTO WHAT , NOTHING.
THE NATIONAL STRATEGIC 005 OOP5;7/ —_— NEVER MIND.
DEFENSE COMPUTER...

4

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

" “t

heat AN Ouro” |\msieemwr

Ee dete Nok.
WHAT 7 HEEBIE “Weebl 5! — 2

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘‘[Computer scientists] need to start doing things with philosophers
to talk about the ethics of computers.’’

The rapid growth has created crucial gaps, however.
Sjoerdsma is particularly sensitive to the need for teachers on
the high school and even grade school level to keep up with
the changes.

When he was at Iowa, Sjoerdsma designed and conducted
a program in which he went into 75 high schools within a
60-mile radius of Iowa City and taught the computer teachers.

‘*Before I did that I had all kinds of preconceived notions,
and all of them got wiped out. Now I’ve got new notions. Of
all the teachers with whom I talked, only about three had any
formal training in computers. Those high school teachers who
are teaching computing are from every background you can
imagine. What happens is that if they have a free period or
are not that heavily loaded, the superintendent says, ‘You
teach it.’ Mostly the mathematics and science people teach
computers. But I found librarians teaching it, and agriculture
teachers teaching it, and even special education teachers.’’

From Sjoerdsma’s perspective, it would be ideal for high
school computer teachers to participate in two- or three-day
workshops. Once the W&L program is on solid footing, he
hopes to offer such workshops for Virginia teachers.

‘“The smartest teachers out there recognize that the
students can learn faster than they, and the teachers wind up
learning from the students,’’ he says. ‘‘Most of the time that’s
a frightening thing for the teachers.”’

Now Sjoerdsma sees third-graders learning computer basics
and expects that three or four years from now his introduc-
tory course for college students will be unnecessary.

‘*There is a whole crop of them who will be quite a ways
along by the time they get to me as college freshmen,’’ he
says. “‘I think that is critical because, like it or not, there is
hardly any way to escape being affected by computers. I sup-
pose if you’re a street person in New York, maybe you don’t
need to have some knowledge of what computers can do.’’

It is, of course, possible to go too far, which is another
aspect of this new discipline that must be addressed more in
the future.

‘‘We computer scientists need to start working with the
philosophers on the whole subject of computer ethics,’’
Sjoerdsma says. ‘‘That is a major problem that hasn’t
developed very well yet. Computers can certainly be used
unethically. There are well-documented cases of hackers get-
ting into computers. If you read the comic strip ‘Bloom Coun-

ty,’ little Oliver Wendell Jones has done that a few times. It
can be mischievous; but it can also be quite dangerous.’’

One other danger area involves computers being used as
‘*page turners’’ rather than as tools for the extension of
education. ‘‘They shouldn’t replace the teacher, only assist the
teacher in doing a better job. It is one thing to give students
all the tools they need to do things without making them learn
how these things are accomplished. It’s quite another matter
to give them tools that assist them in being able to do things
better and faster while still requiring them to have a basic
understanding of what it is they’re doing. The latter is what
we should be striving for.’’

x * *

UE Sjoerdsma’s direction, Washington and Lee’s com-
puter science department will offer 15 courses in 1985-86.
Before he arrived a year ago the University’s computer courses
were taught in the mathematics department. About three
students have already expressed interest in majoring in com-
puter science; Sjoerdsma anticipates that there will likely be
between 20 and 30 majors most of the time.

‘*A lot of students come in and find out that this really
isn’t for them,’’ he says. ‘‘It’s a rigorous course, and I intend
to keep it that way.”’

In his first year Sjoerdsma was a one-person computer
science department. (‘‘Every vote at the departmental meetings
was unanimous.’’) He will be joined by an assistant professor,
Kenneth Lambert, this fall.

In addition to the staff changes, there will be a facility
change, too, since the University is installing a new central
computer this summer and will increase the number of
available terminals from 35 to more than S50 in the first year
and more thereafter. In addition, clusters of microcomputers
are now or soon will be available in six different locations on
the campus.

Clearly this is a long way from 1963 and Sjoerdsma’s first
computer course at Oregon State. But this is only the
beginning.

‘‘Just as we could not envision back in 1963 what was
ahead, it is utterly impossible to know what computer science
will be like 10 years from now,’’ Sjoerdsma says. ‘‘That
makes it as fascinating for me now as it was back then.”’

W&L = 13

Copyright 1985,

The Washington Post Writer’s Group

Reprinted with permission.

Life on the Moon

 

Journalists Roger Mudd, Charley McDowell
Keep An Eye on Washington

 

by Robert Fure

  

L, is the great paperweight of the East Coast, Washington,
D.C., so stolid and secure in its baroque density that it seems
more a magnificent object than a community. Even from the
air it is majestic. And yet, despite its streams of teeming traf-
fic, the Nation’s Capital may seem somehow beyond habita-
tion. At ground level, even with noisy buses and the clatter of
pedestrians, there is a penetrating stillness about the place.
The Capitol looms above you with imperious dignity, like
your grandfather’s house. Once in its view, you cannot easily
escape its domination. Porticoes and windows everywhere, but
nowhere in this neoclassical estate is there a rear entrance.
Each building fronts its minions coolly on all sides. Forget
about the Pentagon, you cannot sneak into any place here.
But it is, after all, America’s most hallowed architecture,
and thus obliged to be timeless and, if not serene, composed.
These are qualities that perhaps require its monumental indif-
Jerence to temporary people—and temporary is what everyone
seems in Washington. Along the Mall the buildings sit as
though, lost in an archival reverie, they are gazing over
everyone’s head. People stroll idly across the ample lawn or
Jog along the broad gravel paths under tall trees. These are

 

EDITOR‘S NOTE: This is the first in a series of stories about
Washington and Lee alumni in Washington, D.C.

14 W&L

Photo provided courtesy of Washington Convention and Visitors Association

colorful, infinitely various, urbane, handsome people—this
must be the world’s most international city—but none of the
enormous buildings seems in any sense conscious of them. In
many cases you have to climb pyramidal flights of unforgiving
marble steps to gain entrance—vast flights that might easily
accommodate 100 people shoulder to shoulder. On institu-
tional row, you are but’one soul suffered to come observe
your nation’s heritage.

And yet, what American could abide a different seat of
government? The Federal buildings represent our national
dreams of both stability and space. In comparison, Britain’s
Houses of Parliament are crowded up against the Thames by
shopkeepers and tombs; Number 10 Downing Street seems
foolishly understated; Buckingham Palace offensively opulent.
But Washington, with its gentle Potomac lined with parks and
free of commerce, with its patrician accommodation of its
own inescapable urban squalor, with its chaos of traffic circles
and streets named for states, and in spring with its blush of
cherry bloom—it all approaches a condition of grace. And on
the Mall in summer, with flower vendors and acrobats, it’s
almost fun.

But miles from the eloquent Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol
itself rises, white and aloof, with an air of permanent
remoteness, something ancient and apart. Even up close it
seems far away, like the moon.

ee

 

 

of the city. The

sive

any qui

but ut you want it to
; well. \ You

_

we at

3s

 

 

 

 

 

7

, , well- guarded place in a ry ; heart for
Aa was a vivid T experi nce > for me er

 

 

 

 

Charles McDowell, ’48

‘*There was Roger Mudd—to me he’s so much superior to
everybody else in television it ain’t no contest.’’ Charley
McDowell is in mid-thought, listing the famous men who were
a part of his W&L generation. ‘‘There was Sandy Richardson,
who went on to be editor-in-chief of Doubleday and Com-
pany; there was Fielder Cook, who was the dominant televi-
sion director in his era; there was Harrison Kinney, who went
almost directly from W&L to the New Yorker; there was John
Warner and Bill Brock and Freddy Vinson and all kinds of
people who went into politics and public life. I’m sure there’s
a whole bunch I’m leaving out. It was a lively, funny period
when there were all kinds of people interested in writing and
politics and putting on shows.’’

McDowell, like most of the staff who worked with him on
the Ring-tum Phi, became a journalist. Politics, to this old-
fashioned populist Democrat, has always been a special
fascination. For 35 years he’s worked for the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, the last 20 as the newspaper’s Washington
correspondent. He still pounds out three columns a week for
the folks down home in Virginia. But now through syndica-
tion by the Scripps-Howard News Service, he has a national
readership.

For ‘‘putting on shows,’’ he’s a popular panelist on PBS’s
Washington Week in Review and has hosted critically
acclaimed PBS specials on Watergate, the Nixon impeachment
hearings, and, most recently, the National Gridiron Club. He
gets lots of mail. In fact, in many respects, he’s the toast of
the town—alternately rye, whole wheat, and good ole hot-
from-the-pan cornbread.

Wiry and bespectacled, with thinning, pencil-gray hair,
McDowell might sit for a portrait of the classic senior editor
or journalism professor—if he could sit still. He can’t: he
fidgets and taps, smokes and scratches, bobs and weaves, and
when he jumps up to walk somewhere, he hikes his shoulders
up and back, his arms swinging loose, as if he were on his
way to the cup after sinking a 30-foot birdie putt. No time for
posing here; this writer has a few more holes to play.

A chat with Charley McDowell is one of life’s great
pleasures. You can find one in his little patch of the Times-
Dispatch or in one of the 150 newspapers that run his syn-
dicated column. His style is conversational, in a sort of
backyard-fence way, and its effect is to make Washington as
familiar as City Hall.

McDowell’s subject is popular culture as often as it is
Washington politics. Here also his eye is clear, sparkling, and,
quick as a wink, true to the mark. Take for instance a recent
note on Coca-Cola’s new recipe:

Coca-Cola, or Co’Cola, as its serious constituency
called it, was a Southern drink. It brought the South
back from the Civil War and it became the central
cultural trademark of a Nation. Now its passing marks a
century’s passing from tart tradition to sweet banality.

Make no mistake about it. Coca-Cola, as we have
known it, is gone. The formula is being changed for the
first time since a wisp of cocaine was removed in the
early years. The company chairman says the Coca-Cola
will taste ‘‘smoother, rounder, yet bolder, more har-
monious.’’ He means it will be sweeter and the bitter lit-
tle sting—the subtheme—will be missing in it.

The Pepsification of America is complete.

Vintage McDowell: the wry defense of traditional American
values in prose that is deft but plain-spoken, friendly but ab-

 

FS SS
Ss

 

Charley McDowell today and (inset) in 1948

solutely murderous on fatuity and the banal.

What you can’t hear in the newspaper, at least not quite,
is McDowell’s voice. There are lots of voices in his column, to
be sure—in the delightful characters of Aunt Gertrude, Mr.
Bumbleton, and the like. But it’s McDowell’s voice, coupled
with his penchant for the folklore of national politics, that is
fundamental to the charm of his conversation. Doubtless it
has helped make him enormously popular on the lecture cir-
cuit and perhaps the most beloved commentator on PBS. It’s
the voice of good-natured sobriety, with an occasional strain
of the insistent rhythms of a revivalist preacher: a mountain
folksiness that drawls and slides until it takes off like a coon
dog after quarry. It’s shuck and jive that seldom fails to ar-
rive finally at Jeffersonian clarity, even when McDowell’s
point is his own uncertainty.

The uncertainty of a Washington insider—it’s as close to
the truth as you can get in political journalism. One of the
questions that most interests McDowell these days is the im-
pact of television on national politics. A frequent topic of his
campus lectures, the question is born of his work in both
print and television journalism and his long study of political
elections. Has ‘‘the tube’’ (to use one of McDowell’s favorite
expressions), with its enormous capacity to influence the way
we think about people and events, had a deleterious effect on
the quality of our statesmen? Have we lost the Congress and
the White House to showmen?

“tT dunno.’’ McDowell rubs the back of his neck. ‘‘I dun-
no. That’s what I’m wary of, that’s what makes me nervous,
but just the idea of change makes people nervous. Clearly the
situation is different today. But I’m not sure television has
produced a number of actors and lightweights. I’m not sure of
it at all.

W&L 17

 

‘‘When I look at a Senate with five or six Rhodes Scholars
in it, I’m not sure that this Senate sitting up here elected off
of television isn’t the best Senate the United States has ever
had. I mean, these people didn’t come out of smoke-filled
rooms; they didn’t come out of antiquated party structures
where patronage rules. They got elected by the people in a
direct confrontation with the people. Now if we’re going to
jump to the notion that they must be hucksters, sure, in many
cases, that’ll be right. I’m just wondering, though, if it’s right
as much as we think. I don’t think that you can get away with
just being a medicine man for long on television.’’

But what about President Reagan’s consummate stage
skills? ‘‘I believe that Reagan is never consciously a trickster,
that he at least is saying what he believes and he holds it
firmly, even when he’s being inaccurate and bewildered. He’s
still real.’’

McDowell taps a cigarette and muses over his long
catalogue of senators, most of whom he credits with great in-
telligence and dedication, concluding finally, ‘‘No, I don’t
think I live in a town with a bunch of inferior politicians. But
I’m watchin’ ’em, you know, watchin’ ’em.”’

On his career in general, McDowell is modest. ‘‘No, I
haven’t gotten any fancy awards. Oh, I got a nice one from
the University of Virginia once. But really, I don’t do very
serious work. I don’t. I mean, the column is all I do, and in
all the time I’ve written it I haven’t exposed a single national
scandal.’’ McDowell shrugs and grins.

Any regrets? ‘‘Surprisingly few. The way it’s all turned out
suits me fine. I have worked for one newspaper all my life.
That rarely happens in journalism. There were other oppor-
tunities, but I didn’t ever take the risk. I was too comfortable,
treated too well, given all the freedom and tolerance you
could ever ask for.

‘‘Oh, I suppose I could invent a few regrets. I wish I had
done more books instead of just the three quick ones and quit
when I was young. But that’s a small matter. I’d rather have
done the two Nixon television specials than any ten books I
could ever have written. There was a chance to do something
I cared about. That’s the best stuff I was ever a part of.’’

What has made him successful? ‘‘Enduring. But I don’t
know about ‘successful.’ I don’t know how we measure suc-
cess. I suppose that if you stay doing what you’re doing and
people can find you that’s ‘successful.’ If you keep doing it,
good things accrue to you.”’

 

“and the
Jefferson Memorial
is lit up every night.’’

—McDowell

 

18 W&L

 

McDowell attributes much of his success, at least that
which he acknowledges, to his early life at W&L. The son of
a W&L law professor, McDowell grew up on campus in a
house that was a popular gathering place, ‘‘where every Satur-
day night I used to stay up listening to faculty talking and
laughing and singing into the night.’’ He remembers Tom
Riegel’s many journalism courses when, after a hitch in the
Navy, McDowell returned to enroll as a regular student.
‘*Riegel’s course on theater and film criticism was the best one
I’ve ever taken. But there were may others.’’ His recall is
glowing and vivid.

Then Richmond, and then Washington and the National
Press Building. A life without remarkable geography, but, to
paraphrase Thoreau, McDowell has traveled far in
Washington, D.C. To the outsider, how would he describe the
city, its essence?

‘*Well, I’m afraid I’m much too corny about that.”’
McDowell’s voice drops a register and slows to a point where
he can get the words right.

‘*This place is about Thomas Jefferson and George
Washington and Abraham Lincoln. You can’t get away from
them. They’re here. That’s what this place is about. It ain’t
about cocktail parties. It ain’t about the high life and
Mercedeses. It’s Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln, and why
this country works and what its ideals are. And everybody
here is absolutely affected by it.

‘*This is a serious city, and it’s real proud of its absolutely
looming monuments. I mean . . .’”” McDowell’s eyes widen, he
laughs his breathy, panting little laugh, and stretches his arms
wide. ‘‘. . . They’re just Here. It’s their place.

‘‘What gives this city coherence is the nation’s history. It’s
not a frivolous, silly place. The character of life here is dif-
ferent because, you know, the people come and go. Roger
Mudd is the only person I can name offhand who was ever
born here. No one’s from Washington (all right, Roger is).
That gives the city its superficial character. So we don’t have
a tradition of a neighborhood grocery that’s been here forever
to give us stability. But the Capitol of the United States is
fairly stable, the House of Representatives is stable, the
Library of Congress is extraordinarily stable, and the Jeffer-
son Memorial is lit up every night. We have our centers and
we’re aware of them.

**So living here seems like it has real substance—something
matters here.”’

4 i E |
Photo provided courtesy of Washington Convention and Visitors Association

Correcting History

 

W&L Law Professor Poses New Theory
on the Signing of the Declaration of Independence

 

GHhe manimons Declay

yg” of Twelve?

pee

Y 4. 1776.

  
 
  
      

 

Ix CONGR

Digéts of Hinrerica,

con aad lem
ibadadapedthad wk an ont He oth nel

NY Gt eo nan tt eee.

 

ecpenh
Me frwess of lhe oath, ands swhiid, the dew vii and of Hilts God wntille thin, @ deant respect hind uguias biel they
Tah dg Mak nt hm, a ped antici opto

Ms Ao OBE nsec
Po Ea fll Hn peta

ave one,

sna

and

Wei Mell thu ashe tik ‘peer ad. taf a trl if
heal La hg fas tg onhane sik wed aes a
; vt opm tld he aaa tal (Mrs de idee biel ifr

sl Se ie bl el hae Pp ten pias ate

eae oa

flow

Paes sand fuskas now-he ie eT ee
Britain ss ahaihiry of upeated. OTT Mad eee. ee peeps ee de hosts hefadbrsted trae

Lael cggr tent fove sat. nee pose im mcabiley?

 

pti panes oan sat aia tft
Satine Z hemes ae crepe

tke gt yee fe ee thon fey oe

mica

 

 

ee pe ge Fe se 4 —
patentee pee sate ion ies Meal, eee

ts:
wos For puctabng
‘ eae ie an deatde in li
bt ~
fe Cecrsine ahoobile:tubbith

: See
ae Fes Oi ham weriting

a, Ahinding loom Gee
col war bP pus

the Povms a. es ehcp Sages

ee mutates ~
ee ‘ chmathies bho mashed :
» Apa we a oe — :

 

: lf fren nti! ae rae aig ili Henna fde mdf

TO is acc plu Gh ans

cla dates bhcbli coma het Mines, tsb bah be

eee ee itech
Mam aed therdatgf rn a cre itp

tie
Zoi Idle — Sab terre, 4 ee oy

Save Adaws

John fears .
Oden? fotte dpe Poe Alen, Morty fee
Bt geoyttye, Sos itr “Lille Wa
ali Fijerm ae oe Mieke,
ee: SE Mier OPA

eS BES Hit hotn—
~~

a Sean le “

F.. more than a century and a half
historians have been claiming that the
Declaration of Independence was signed
on August 2, 1776, not on July 4 as most
Americans undoubtedly believe.

Now a Washington and Lee professor
wants to correct the historians, restore
the Fourth of July as the Declaration’s
actual acknowledged signing date, and
put an end to the attacks on the credibili-
ty of our Founding Fathers.

Ritz, an emeritus professor of law,
wants to accomplish all this by having
the National Archives subject the
Engrossed Declaration of Independence
to scientific examinations which he says
will reveal a telltale erasure in the
heading of the document.

He says that such an examination
‘‘can be expected to produce irrefragable
evidence that the Engrossed Declaration
now in the National Archives is the
selfsame instrument that was engrossed
and first signed on July 4, 1776.”’

The examination, says Ritz, will
reveal an erasure in the middle of the
heading, which reads: ‘‘The unanimous
Declaration of the thirteen united States
of America.’’ The words, ‘‘of the thir-
teen united,’’ are both uncapitalized and
in smaller letters than the rest of the
heading.

Prior to the erasure, says Ritz, the
heading read: ‘‘The unanimous Declara-
tion of Twelve States of America.’’ That,
he adds, represents the number of states
agreeing to the Declaration on July 4.
New York withheld its adherence until
July 9.

Ritz notes that the words ‘‘of
Twelve,’’ lettered in the same size and
style as the rest of the heading, would
take up the same amount of space as the
four words ‘‘of the thirteen united’’ as
they are now lettered in the Declaration.
He argues that the erasure provided in-
sufficient space for the engrosser to insert
the new words in the same style and size
as the rest of the heading, which explains

W&L 19

 

why the words are smaller and
uncapitalized.

One historian has tried to explain
away the unusual heading as merely slop-
py penmanship. But Ritz says the rest of
the Declaration ‘‘stands as sufficient
answer to the charge that (Timothy)
Matlack was careless in engrossing the
head.’’ And, in fact, Matlack was
acknowledged as one of the best penmen
in the colonies.

The issue of the heading and erasures
aside, Ritz notes that ‘‘every one of the
Founding Fathers who was present in
Congress at the signing on July 4, and
left any record, said that the Declaration
was signed on the Fourth....All of this
evidence of a July 4 signing has been
brushed aside by historians.’’

Historians make their case for an
August 2 signing by citing notes in the
margins of the ‘‘secret’’ or unofficial
journal of the Continental Congress.
Those entries indicate that the Congress
ordered the Declaration engrossed on Ju-
ly 19 and that it was actually put on the
table and signed on August 2.

Such arguments, says Ritz, fly in the
face of reports left by several of the
signers themselves, and historians have
attempted to justify their position by
challenging the memories of such Foun-
ding Fathers as Thomas Jefferson, Ben-
jamin Franklin, and John Adams.

As Ritz points out, even Jefferson’s
own biographer doubted the version that
Jefferson provided. In The Writings of
Thomas Jefferson, published in 1892,
Paul Leicester Ford used a footnote to
damn Jefferson’s account, saying that ‘‘it
is evident that this narrative is not wholly
trustworthy.”’

Ritz has found a letter from John
Adams, dated April 30, 1823, and ad-
dressed to Caesar Rodney, the son of one
of the Declaration’s original signers, in
which Adams explains: ‘‘All the confu-
sion has arisen from a resolution. . .that
all future members should sign the
original parchment. . . in consequence
of which a number of names appear on
the declaration of Independence of the
4th who were certainly not there and did
not sign... .”’

And Benjamin Franklin wrote a letter
to his sister on July 4, 1786, in which he
says that there is ‘‘much rejoicing in
town to-day, it being the anniversary of
the Declaration of Independence, which
we signed this day ten years, and thereby
hazarded lives and fortunes.’’

Ritz says that the letters of Adams
and Franklin are dismissed by historians

20 W&L

 

Wilfred B. Ritz points to the place in the Declaration of Independence’s heading where he
believes an erasure was made.

‘fas the product of defective memory or
blurred recollections.”’

Explains Ritz: ‘‘An examination of
the document in the National Archives
should put an end, once and for all, to
these attacks on the credibility of Jeffer-
son, Adams, and Franklin.’’

Too, Ritz suggests that his version of
the events indicates that the ratification
of the Declaration was not necessarily as
unanimous as it has been made to
appear.

“If you say, as I do, that the docu-
ment was signed July 4, then everybody
who was there and whose name is not on
it did not sign it, and presumably was
opposed,’’ says Ritz, who cites various
historical sources to arrive at a total of
34 signatures on July 4, counting John
Hancock.

The four New York delegates signed
on July 15—six days after the Provincial
Congress of New York adhered to the
Declaration on July 9, and two Maryland
delegates signed on July 18.

On July 19, 1776, Congress ordered
that the Declaration ‘‘be signed by every
member of Congress.’’ According to
Ritz, that meant another signing was to
be held and that all non-signing members
of the Continental Congress would be re-
quired to add their signatures to the
document. Another signing was held on
August 2 when I] more members signed.

Ritz contends that a scientific ex-

amination of the Declaration now in the
National Archives, using such techniques
as ultraviolet- and beta-radiography and
paleography, will show that it is the same
parchment signed on July 4, 1776, and
will prove that it is an even more
precious document than it is now thought
to be.

In efforts to prove his theory, Ritz
has written a well-documented paper and
has sent it to officials of the National
Archives. He has also written to the
Library of Congress and to Virginia
members of Congress about his theory.

In its response to Ritz’s request, an
official of the National Archives
acknowledged that the theory is pro-
vocative but suggested that an examina-
tion of the document should not be the
first step in proving the theory. Instead,
Frank G. Burke, acting archivist of the
United States, suggested that other
scholars ought to respond to Ritz’s
theory and debate the issue before subjec-
ting the Engrossed Declaration to the
scientific examination.

Shortly before the Fourth of July,
Ritz’s ideas received considerable atten-
tion when newspapers across the country
carried stories about his theory.

Ritz says he will continue to push for
a scientific examination of the Engrossed
Declaration, explaining: ‘‘I think it is im-
portant for everyone to know just how
precious that document is.”’

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
   
  

   

 

 

 

 

    

tion, and restitution. The
major offenses are possible expulsion and >
suspension from the University.
“The policy committee recomn
Committee,
he officers of the
ue to handle

 

 

 

 

fase.

 

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at UNMC. In that capacity she was In 1976, he returned to Colgate as a

responsible for the design and implemen- development researcher. He joined the
tation of programs to identify, motivate, admissions staff at Muskingum College in
recruit, and prepare ethnic minority and 1977 and was assistant director of admis-
economically disadvantaged students for sions for the New Concord, Ohio, school
admission to and successful participation from 1979 until 1982 when he was ap-

in the five college and 10 allied health pointed acting registrar. He was named
programs of the center. registrar the following year.

Under her direction, minority student Dittman is a member of the American
enrollment more than doubled at the Association of Collegiate Registrars and
Omaha center. Admissions Counselors. He has also serv-

She is a member of the American Per- ed as advisor to the Muskingum Christian
sonnel and Guidance Association, the Fellowship.

Association of American Medical Col-
leges, and the National Association of
Medical Minority Educators.

She has presented papers on a variety
of subjects at professional meetings and
has conducted workshops and seminars Washington and Lee has received a
On topics in minority student affairs. $50,000 endowment gift from Judge and
Mrs. Paul H. Weinstein of Bethesda, Md.,
to establish a scholarship for students who

Judge Weinstein gift
to support Judaic studies

 

i

New registrar named

McCloud pursue Judaic studies at the University.
D. Scott Dittman, registrar at Mus- The Max and Sylvia Weinstein Scholar-
Associate dean named kingum College in Ohio since 1983, has ship for Judaic Studies, named in honor of
been appointed registrar at Washington Judge Weinstein’s parents, will be awarded
Anece Faison McCloud, director of and Lee, effective September 1. to entering students who demonstrate an in-
minority student affairs at the University Dittman will succeed Lt. Col. Harold terest in Judaic studies and related activities.
of Nebraska Medical Center since 1976, S. Head, who is retiring after 19 years as The award will be renewable annually upon
has been appointed associate dean of Washington and Lee’s registrar. demonstration of the recipient’s continuing

students for minority affairs at A native of Canton, N.Y., Dittman interest in Judaic studies.

Washington and Lee University, effective received the bachelor of arts degree in The gift was made in an effort to pro-
September 1. computer science from Colgate Universi- mote Judaic studies and to encourage other
McCloud’s appointment was announc-_ ty. He has pursued graduate studies at activities for Jewish students at W&L.
ed by Lewis G. John, dean of students at Western Illinois University. The University began a series of courses
Washington and Lee. He was a Peace Corps volunteer in in Judaic studies during the 1984-85

‘‘We are delighted to have Anece 1975, assigned to the Barbados Boy Scout academic year under the direction of Richard
McCloud as a member of the University Association. Marks, assistant professor of religion. Marks

community,’’ said John. ‘‘She has been
instrumental in building an exceptionally
strong program for minority students at
the University of Nebraska’s Medical
Center. We are fortunate, indeed, that
she has chosen to accept this position.’’

As associate dean of students,
McCloud will have general responsibilities
in the areas of student affairs and
counseling and will be involved with the
University’s minority student recruitment
efforts.

McCloud received the bachelor of
science in education degree from Bennett
College in Greensboro, N.C.

She served as a teacher in Greensboro
and at Woodbridge Air Force Base in
England. She was a resident advisor with
Child Saving Institute in Omaha, Neb.,
from 1969 to 1971. She joined the
University of Nebraska Medical Center
(UNMC) in 1972 as assistant registrar for
academic records.

In 1976 she became the first director

 

Judge Paul H. Weinstein, ’55, (left) meets with Farris P. Hotchkiss (center), director of university

relations and development, and Richard Marks, assistant professor of religion, to discuss details of
of the office of minority student affairs a new scholarship for Jewish studies.

W&L = 23

 

holds a master’s degree in Judaic studies
from Hebrew Union College in Los Angeles
and a Ph.D. in Jewish history from UCLA.

In May Judge and Mrs. Weinstein met
with University officials to discuss the en-
dowment and other ways of supporting
Jewish activities on the campus.

Directory questionnaire
to be mailed to alumni

In early August all Washington and Lee
alumni will be receiving a brief questionnaire
from the Bernard C. Harris Publishing Com-
pany, Inc., which is compiling a new direc-
tory of the University’s alumni.

In addition to the initial questionnaire,
a follow-up request will be sent a month
later. It is essential that these questionnaires
be returned promptly so that the informa-
tion in the directory will be current and
complete.

All alumni will then be contacted direct-
ly by Harris Publishing Company to verify
information to be listed in the directory and
to determine whether alumni wish to pur-
chase a copy. Alumni with current addresses
who have not responded to the question-
naires and are not reached by phone by the
Harris representatives will appear in the
directory with information from existing
Alumni Office records.

Alumni will be listed alphabetically,
geographically, and by class year. Each
listing will contain name, class year,
degree(s), residence address, and telephone
number. Business and professional informa-
tion will be included when available.

Any alumni who do not receive a ques-
tionnaire by Sept. 20 or who do not wish to
be listed in the directory should notify the
Alumni Office.

 

 

Alumni Secretary Richard Sessoms (left) and William Clements, president of the Alumni Associa-

tion, examine the plaque that hangs outside the newly redecorated alumni administrative offices.
The renovation project was made possible by a gift in memory of Rugeley P. DeVan Jr., ’34,
and given by his brother, W. Todd DeVan, ’33, and his sons, Rugeley P. DeVan III, ’63, and
Michael T. DeVan. The late Mr. DeVan was one of the first recipients of the University’s

distinguished alumnus award.

Trustees to examine
South Africa investments

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees has appointed a three-member
subcommittee of Trustees to examine the
University’s policies with regard to in-
vestments in companies or banks doing
business in South Africa.

In May representatives of the
Washington and Lee Campaign Against
Apartheid presented a petition to Presi-
dent John D. Wilson asking the Universi-
ty to consider withdrawing support from
companies that do business in South
Africa. That petition was signed by 342
members of the University community.

In a letter that accompanied the peti-
tion, the organizers of the Campaign
Against Apartheid asked the Trustees to
consider five options to show the Univer-
sity’s Opposition to apartheid.

Those options included divestment of
all stock in firms that do ‘‘substantial’’
business in or with South Africa; selling
stocks in firms that supply products used
by South African security forces; putting
pressure on firms that refuse to comply
with the Sullivan Principles; joining a
consortium of colleges currently reviewing
the activities of American firms in South
Africa; and expressing the University’s
concern about apartheid to firms.

During the May meeting of the
Trustees in Lexington, President Wilson

 

hospital. He was 75.

earned the LL.D. at Harvard in 1935.

 

Edward Spencer Graves, adjunct professor of law at
Washington and Lee, died June 15 in a Lynchburg, Va.,

A native of Lynchburg, Graves received the bachelor of arts
degree from W&L in 1930 and a master’s degree in 1931. He

A partner in the Lynchburg firm of Edmunds and Williams,
he began teaching in the W&L School of Law in 1948.

He was a lecturer on domestic relations in 1948 and 1950
and lectured on legal draftsmanship from 1950 through 1967.
He was a visiting lecturer in law from 1967 to 1976 when he
became an adjunct professor of law. He taught a course in estate
planning during the 1984-85 academic year.

Edward S. Graves, 1910-1985

He was a member of the Lynchburg, the Virginia, and the
American Bar Associations, the Association of the Bar of the Ci-
ty of New York, the International Bar Association, and the Inter-
American Bar Association.

He was co-author of ‘‘ Virginia Civil Procedures’’ and had con-
tributed articles to the Washington and Lee Law Review.

He was a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve
and was on active duty from 1942 to 1946.

He was a trustee emeritus of Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege and a member of the Board of Directors of the United Virginia
Bank in Lynchburg. He was past president of the Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce and a member of Centenary United
Methodist Church in Lynchburg.

 

 

24 W&L

 

delivered the petition to the Trustees’ in-
vestment committee for its consideration.

Following that meeting, Rector James
M. Ballengee announced the appointment
of the three-member subcommittee and
asked that it ‘‘earnestly and sincerely ex-
amine the issue.’’

The subcommittee will consist of C.
Royce Hough III of Jacksonville, Fla.,
who will serve as chairman, James F.
Gallivan of Nashville, Tenn., and Isaac
N. Smith Jr. of Charleston, W.Va.

Ballengee asked that the subcommittee
report its findings to the trustees.

William S. Geimer, associate pro-
fessor of law at W&L and one of the
organizers of the Campaign Against
Apartheid, said that the organization ‘‘is
pleased with this important first step the
Trustees have taken.’’

Awards, honors

e J. Cole Dawson III of Houston,
president of the executive committee for
1984-85, won the Frank J. Gilliam Award
for 1985. The Gilliam Award is presented
to the student who has made the most
conspicuous contributions to life at
Washington and Lee. The recipient is
selected by non-graduating student
government representatives.

Dawson was active in the student
government during each of his four years
at W&L. He was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa and Phi Eta Sigma. He was
a member of the student recruitment

 

ee pe:

Awards on Senior Night went to (from left)
Charles M. (Murph) Murray; J. Coleman
Dawson IIT; and Lewis G. John.

 

Winners of the Ring-tum Phi awards (from left) Richard Sessoms, director of alumni programs; B.

   

Scott Tilley, ’85; Clara Belle Weatherman, who accepted the award for her late husband, Romulus
IT. Weatherman, Robert Tomaso, ’85; and George Cunningham

committee and the Muscular Dystrophy
Superdance committee and participated in
the Big Brothers program.

e Lewis G. John, dean of students at
Washington and Lee University, has been
awarded the fifth annual William Webb
Pusey III Award for outstanding service
and dedication to the University.

The Pusey Award was created in 1981
by the executive committee of the Univer-
sity and is named in honor of William
Webb Pusey III, who served Washington
and Lee as professor, dean, and acting
president from 1939 until his retirement
in 1981.

John, a 1958 graduate of Washington
and Lee, returned to his alma mater in
1963 as assistant dean of students and
director of financial aid. He became dean
of students in 1969.

In addition to the Pusey Award, the
executive committee made a special
presentation in recognition of outstanding
service to the University by Charles M.
(Murph) Murray, proctor at Washington
and Lee.

e¢ Washington and Lee’s student
newspaper presented its annual awards
for outstanding service to the University
during Senior Night ceremonies in May.

Recipients of Ring-tum Phi awards
were:

—the late Romulus T. Weatherman,
who served as director of publications at

W&L from 1967 until his death in May;

—Richard Sessoms, director of alumni
activities and secretary of the W&L
Alumni Association;

—George Cunningham, former Lex-
ington Post Office employee and a
longtime friend of the University;

—senior Bob Tomaso of Milford,
Conn., head dormitory counselor;

—senior B. Scott Tilley of Richmond,
president of The Lampost and the Col-
lege Republicans.

e Washington and Lee’s chapter of
the national leadership fraternity
Omicron Delta Kappa has given its
Rupert N. Latture Outstanding
Sophomore Award to Jeffrey Scott Man-
dak of Clifton, N.J.

Named for the sole surviving founders
of ODK, the award goes to the W&L
sophomore who best exemplifies the
ideals of the national fraternity.

Mandak is a Robert E. Lee Research
Scholar in chemistry. He previously won
the Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award
for outstanding scholarship.

Faculty activities

e Lamar Cecil, the Kenan Professor
of History at Washington and Lee, has
contributed a chapter on the diplomatic
service in imperial Germany to a recently

W&L = 25

 

published volume. The book in which
Cecil’s chapter appears is entitled The
Diplomatic Corps, 1871-1945: Budinger
Research in Social History. It was edited
by Professor Klaus Schwabe, director of
the Historical Institute of the Technische
Hochscule of Aachen.

e David B. Dickens, associate pro-
fessor of German at Washington and
Lee, recently participated in a symposium
at the 32nd Northeast Conference for
Foreign Language Teaching held in New
York. In connection with a symposium
on the German short story, Dickens
presented a paper, ‘‘The Short Stories of
Kurt Kusenberg.”’

e The application of computer
technology to an 11th-century survey of
England is the topic of a journal article
recently published by two Washington
and Lee professors and three recent W&L
graduates.

Taylor Sanders, professor of history
at W&L, was the chief author of the arti-
cle, entitled ‘‘The Classroom, the Com-
puter, and the Domesday Book,’’ which
appeared in the recent issue of Studies in
Medieval and Renaissance Teaching.

His co-authors include Phil Cline,
associate professor of economics and ad-
ministration, and three recent W&L
graduates—Tim Hartley, ’84, currently a
law student at Washington and Lee;
Charles King, 85, who is attending law
school at George Mason University; and
Tim Valliere, ’84, who is pursuing
graduate work in international relations
at Columbia University.

e Bruce Herrick, professor of
economics and head of the department of
economics at Washington and Lee, was
one of two economists invited to par-
ticipate in a recent meeting on data needs
for health in international development.

 

The University Theatre produced an original play entitled Two Lovers of Verona during the
spring term. Written by W&L drama professors Tom Ziegler and Joseph Martinez, the play was
a musical based on Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. /n addition to performances in the Universi-
ty Theatre, the company took the show on the road. The set was designed and the script was
written specifically to permit production of the play in high schools and grammar schools. The
performance pictured above was at Lexington’s Lylburn Downing School.

26 W&L

 

Herrick

Held in Washington, D.C., the
meeting was convened by the U.S. State
Department’s Agency for International
Development (AID) as part of its con-
gressionally mandated program to im-
prove the health conditions in low-income
countries around the world.

Herrick’s most recent field research in
health economics was carried out in Jor-
dan as part of a World Bank survey of
that country’s health delivery systems.

e The on-going racial struggle in
South Boston, Mass., and the concept of
power in that struggle provided the topic
for a paper presented recently by
Washington and Lee sociology professor
David R. Novack. Entitled ‘‘Forced Bus-
ing in South Boston: Class, Race and the
Third Dimension of Power,’’ Novack
presented the paper at the 55th annual
meeting of the Eastern Sociological Socie-
ty, which was held in Philadelphia.

e Gordon P. Spice, associate pro-
fessor of music at Washington and Lee,
has been elected president of the Inter-
collegiate Musical Council, a national
association of collegiate and secondary
school male choruses. Spice, who has
served as secretary of the organization
since 1979, was elected at the IMC’s an-
nual seminar held in Salt Lake City.

e Washington and Lee music pro-
fessor Robert Stewart was one of the
featured composers at a program on con-
temporary music held at James Madison
University earlier this year. Stewart was
one of four Virginia composers whose
music was performed during the two-day
event, ‘‘Music of Our Time—A Festival
of Contemporary Music.”’

Faculty promotions announced

Eight members of the Washington
and Lee faculty recently received promo-
tions in academic rank.

 

Approved by the Board of Trustees
during its May meeting, the promotions
are effective September 1.

Promoted from associate professor to
full professor are: David B. Dickens
(German), John M. McDaniel (an-
thropology), and Pamela H. Simpson
(fine arts).

Promoted from assistant professor to
associate professor are: Roger A. Dean
(administration), Carl P. Kaiser
(economics), Russell C. Knudson
(romance languages), Joseph D. Martinez
(fine arts), and Larry M. Stene (fine
arts).

Minor L. Rogers named
duPont Professor of Religion

Minor L. Rogers, a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1972,
has been named the Jessie Ball duPont
Professor in Religion by the W&L Board
of Trustees.

The endowed professorship in religion
was established through grants of
$750,000 to Washington and Lee from
the Jessie Ball duPont Religious,
Charitable and Educational Fund of
Jacksonville, Fla.

A former Episcopal missionary to
Japan, Rogers has conducted major
research on Japanese Buddhism. He is
currently completing a book on Rennyo
Shonin, who laid the foundations in
medieval Japan for the emergence of the
Shin Pure Land Sect as the most influen-
tial religious movement in Japanese
history.

Rogers received his bachelor of
science degree from Virginia Military In-
stitute in 1952. After serving in the U.S.
Army and as an engineer for General
Electric, he entered Virginia Theological
Seminary and earned the bachelor of
divinity degree in 1958.

From 1958 to 1961, he served as a
clergyman for the Episcopal Diocese of
Southwestern Virginia. He was a mis-
sionary in Japan with Nippon Seikokai
(Episcopal Church in Japan) from 1961
to 1965.

He earned the Ph.D. degree from
Harvard in 1972, the same year he joined
the Washington and Lee faculty as assis-
tant professor. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1978 and was nam-
ed head of the department of religion last
year. He has spent the 1984-85 academic
year at Harvard University on a sab-
batical leave from W&L.

Rogers was instrumental in organizing
Washington and Lee’s successful program

Rogers

in East Asian Studies. He has also been
involved in W&L’s study abroad program
at the Kansai University of Foreign
Studies in Hirakata, Japan, and in the
University’s development of a student ex-
change program with Rikkyo University
in Tokyo.

He has been the recipient of several
grants and awards, including an Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation Grant for
research at The Center for the Study of
World Religions at Harvard and a Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities
grant.

He is the author of nine journal ar-
ticles and 14 papers presented at national
and international professional meetings
on Japanese Buddhism. He has translated
three Japanese Buddhist sacred texts into
English.

Rogers is a member of the American
Academy of Religion, the Association for
Asian Studies, and the International
Association of Shin Buddhist Studies.

White receives Mednick Grant

O. Kendall White Jr., associate pro-
fessor of sociology at Washington and
Lee, has been named the recipient of a
Mednick Fellowship for research and ad-
vanced study.

White was one of 11 professors from
Virginia colleges selected to receive the
fellowships, offered through the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges,
which administers the Maurice L. Med-
nick Memorial Fund.

White used the fellowship to conduct
research in Utah this past summer. He
has been studying social contradictions in
Mormon family life.

 

White previously studied other aspects
of the Mormon Church, publishing ar-
ticles on such topics as the admission of
blacks into the Mormon priesthood and
the Mormon Church’s excommunication
of Equal Rights Amendment activist
Sonia Johnson.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1969, he received his
bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the
University of Utah and his Ph.D. from
Vanderbilt University.

The Virginia Foundation for Indepen-
dent Colleges raises funds primarily from
corporations and foundations for 14 in-
dependent colleges in Virginia.

Steinheimer named
Huntley Professor

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., professor of
law and former dean of the School of
Law, has been appointed to the Robert
FE. R. Huntley Professorship in Law by
the University’s Board of Trustees.

Steinheimer becomes the first Huntley
Professor of Law at W&L.

The endowed professorship was
created by the W&L Trustees in 1982 in
honor of Huntley, who served for 15
years as president of Washington and
Lee. The Huntley Professorship was
established with designated unrestricted
endowment funds which the University
received during the $67 million develop-
ment program that was completed in
1982.

Steinheimer came to Washington and
Lee in 1968, succeeding Huntley as dean
of the School of Law.

A Dodge City, Kan., native,
Steinheimer received his bachelor’s degree
from the University of Kansas and his
law degree from the University of
Michigan. After practicing law with a
New York City firm for 10 years, he
joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan law school where he taught
before coming to W&L.

He served as dean for 15 years before
retiring and returning to full-time
teaching. A specialist in the area of com-
mercial law, Steinheimer spent the spring
semester of 1984 as the first occupant of
the John Sparkman Distinguished Pro-
fessorship at the University of Alabama
School of Law.

In the fall of 1984 he returned to
W&L. He teaches courses in commercial
transactions and consumer protection.

Steinheimer served for several years
on the Uniform Commercial Code Com-

W&L 27

 

mittees of both the American and
Michigan State Bar Associations. He is
the author of numerous books and ar-
ticles, including the two-volume Uniform
Commercial Code Forms with Practice
Comments (1969) and the two-volume
Desk Reference to the Uniform Commer-
cial Code (1964).

University editor named

Jeffery G. Hanna, director of the
news office at Washington and Lee since
1981, has been named university editor
and director of communications at W&L,
effective July 1.

The appointment was announced by
Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of university
relations at W&L.

In addition, Hotchkiss announced that
Joyce Carter Harris, an editorial assistant
at W&L, will become assistant university
editor.

According to Hotchkiss, Hanna’s
responsibilities will be to supervise and
coordinate the University’s Alumni
Magazine, the news service, and the print
shop programs along with the Universi-
ty’s overall publications. He will also
oversee the photographic services and the
sports information operation.

In the capacity of university editor,
Hanna succeeds Frank A. Parsons, who
continues to serve as executive assistant
to the president of the University.

Harris has been an editorial assistant
in Washington and Lee’s publications
department for 18 years. She has been
primarily responsible for production of
the University’s catalogues and served as
interim editor of both the undergraduate
and law school catalogues in 1984-85.

William G. Broaddus
named Virginia attorney general

William G. Broaddus, who received his
bachelor of arts degree in economics from
Washington and Lee in 1965, became the
35th attorney general of Virginia on June 30.

Broaddus, who had been serving as depu-
ty attorney general, was appointed by Gov.
Charles S. Robb to succeed Gerald L. Baliles
who resigned to run for governor.

A native of Richmond, Broaddus, 42,
received his law degree from the University
of Virginia. He was a law clerk for Justice
Harry L. Carrico of the Supreme Court of
Virginia, served as assistant attorney general
from 1970 to 1973, and was Henrico Coun-
ty attorney from 1973 to 1982.

Broaddus and his wife, Grace, have two
children.

28 W&L

 

Mellon Foundation awards
WE&L $250,000 grant

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
has made a $250,000 grant to
Washington and Lee to help the Universi-
ty develop ‘‘fresh combinations’’ in its
academic programs.

In announcing the grant, Dr. John E.
Sawyer, president of the Mellon Founda-
tion, said that the financial assistance is
designed to ‘‘sustain creative energies and
stir new perceptions and hypotheses
within or across fields, to foster the
healthy ordering or reordering of either
individual disciplines or larger groupings
of knowledge, and to encourage im-

Lee Associates

More than 160 guests gathered in
Lexington in May for the Lee
Associate Dinner. At left, Trustee
James Gallivan (left) chats with Mr.
and Mrs. Omer L. Hirst. Below,
guests dined to chamber music pro-
vided by W&L students.

 

aginative reconsideration of

undergraduate . . . teaching programs in
the humanities, social sciences, and
natural sciences.’’

W&L President John D. Wilson an-
nounced that the University will use the
grant initially in two areas: first, to help
support and expand the East Asian
Studies Program; and second, to begin
work in the area of cognition studies.

‘‘We are grateful to have been award-
ed the Mellon Foundation grant and are
encouraged by the opportunity it brings
to strengthen and revitalize our initiatives
in the humanities and social sciences,’’
Wilson said.

Generals’ Report

 

W&L Boasts Three Tennis All-Americans

 

\ y ashington and Lee’s tennis team
gave the hometown fans plenty to cheer
about in May.

Serving as the host team for the
NCAA Division III Championships, the
Generals wound up eighth in the nation
during the team competition and then
had three players earn All-America
honors during the individual play.

Freshman David McLeod of Augusta,
Ga., and the doubles team of senior
Andy Haring of Mansfield, Ohio, and
freshman Chris Wiman, of Abilene,
Texas, claimed All-America status by
scoring impressive upset victories to ad-
vance to the third rounds of their respec-
tive brackets.

In all, 90 student-athletes representing
37 colleges and universities descended on
the W&L campus for the week-long na-
tional championships. Swarthmore (Pa.)
College upset Kalamazoo (Mich.) to win
the team championship during the first
three days of the tournament. In the in-
dividual competition, Principia (Ill.) Col-
lege freshman Toby Clark won the singles
crown while Swarthmore teammates Jeff
Krieger and Shep Davidson claimed the
doubles title.

Although the tournament drew in-
terested crowds throughout the week,
most of the attention naturally focused
on the fate of W&L’s entrants. And the
Generals provided some of the most in-
teresting moments, too, especially during
the individual competition.

In fact, one of the most dramatic
matches of the week saw McLeod,
W&L’s No. | singles player, stun the
tournament’s top-ranked player,
Swarthmore’s Krieger, in the first round
of singles.

McLeod had lost to Krieger during
the team competition earlier in the week.
But the second meeting was a different
story as McLeod rebounded with a thrill-
ing 7-6, 4-6, 7-5 victory. McLeod won
another three-set match in the second
round to advance to the round of 16

by Mark Mandel

 

All-American Haring

where he was finally eliminated.

The doubles team of Haring and
Wiman also claimed an upset by knock-
ing off the fifth-seeded team in the open-
ing round, thereby becoming one of the
top eight teams left in the draw. They
eventually lost in the quarterfinals to the
Swarthmore team that won the national
championship.

It was a historic week for the
Generals since it marked the first time
that W&L had three All-Americans in
one year. Thrice before two Generals had
been All-Americans in the same year—
Ben Johns and Stewart Jackson in both

1977 and 1978 and Pete Lovel and Doug
Gaker in 1981.

**T am extremely proud for
Washington and Lee,’’ said W&L head
coach Gary Franke, who was the tourna-
ment director. ‘‘The players rose to the
occasion with some outstanding tennis. I
am especially happy for Andy Haring,
the only senior on the squad. He is an
outstanding individual and truly deserved
the honor. It was also great to see our
freshmen emerge as national-caliber
players.

*‘But I am not just proud for the
players. A lot of people worked hard to
make the tournament a success. Conse-
quently, people from all over the country
had a chance to see Washington and Lee
at its finest.’’

Earlier in the spring the Generals had
swept to the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference title by winning five of the six
singles championships and all three
doubles crowns. McLeod was named the
conference’s Player of the Year; Franke
was the ODAC Coach of the Year.

x * *

ene lacrosse team, which played one
of its most demanding schedules ever,
had a disappointing year, finishing with a
3-8 record.

To their credit, the Generals did play
well in spurts but could not sustain their
efforts against five of the top 15 Division
I teams and the No. 1l-ranked Division
III team. After an 8-6 win over Duke in
the opener, W&L lost to No. 3-ranked
North Carolina (19-5), No. 5 Maryland
(11-5), No. 4 Virginia (17-7), No. 10 Cor-
nell (14-6), and No. 15 Towson State
(9-8). The Generals also lost a 14-13 dou-
ble overtime decision to Washington Col-
lege, which was ranked No. 1 in Division
III at the time.

After an 18-12 win over Bucknell, the
team got on a roller coaster, hitting its
lowest point in a 20-6 loss to Roanoke,

W&L 29

then soaring to a 13-12 victory over No.
13 Loyola four days later. The season
ended with a 9-6 loss to the University of
Maryland-Baltimore County.

‘‘We had a disappointing season, but
I cannot take anything away from this
team’s effort. We played as a team. We
sacrificed as a team. We hustled as a
team. Unfortunately, we did not win as a
team,’’ said head coach Dennis Daly.

There were solid individual perfor-
mances throughout the season. Senior
John Di Duro of Geneva, N.Y., was
spectacular in the goal and was named
the team’s most valuable player. Senior
attackman Sandy Brown of Baltimore
was selected to play in the annual North-
South All-Star game. And senior Rich
(Taz) Schoenberg of Chicago had another
fine year, winning 63 percent of his
faceoffs.

Washington and Lee’s winning streak
in track and field came to a halt when
the Generals finished second to Lynch-
burg in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference championships. W&L had won
the previous outdoor title and the last
two indoor titles.

‘‘We ran well in the ODAC meet. I
don’t feel as though we lost the meet;

Lynchburg simply beat us for the title,’’
said head coach Norris Aldridge. ‘‘I am
proud of our guys. They gave it their
best shot but came up a little short.”’

Actually the Generals performed bet-
ter in finishing second this time than they
had in 1984 when they won the cham-
pionship with 141 points, seven fewer
than this year’s total. (W&L wound up
with 148 points to Lynchburg’s 169.)

Suffering from inconsistency
throughout the season, the W&L baseball
team finished the year with a 6-21 record.

The Generals were able to provide
some postseason drama in the ODAC
tournament by upsetting top-seeded
Lynchburg, 8-5, in the first round. In the
semifinals the Generals came close to
pulling off another upset but fell to even-
tual champion Bridgewater, 8-7. W&L
controlled the game throughout, leading
7-5 entering the bottom of the ninth
before Bridgewater rallied to win the
game.

Junior Hugh Finkelstein of Con-
yngham, Pa., led the team with a .440
batting average. Sophomore Milam
Turner of Selma, Fla., had 13 RBI to
lead that category. Sophomore Bill
Schoettelkotte of Atlanta slugged five

home runs, including a grand slam in the
ODAC semifinal game.

The golf team finished fourth in the
ODAC, compiled a 5-1 regular-season
record, and earned head coach Buck
Leslie his 100th career coaching victory.
In the ODAC tournament, junior Greg
Wheeler of Anniston, Ala., shot rounds
of 77 and 76 on the par-70 Hanover
Country Club (Richmond) course to
finish in a four-way tie for fifth place,
good enough to earn All-ODAC honors.

At the year-end awards ceremony,
senior Mark Pembroke of Milwaukee was
the recipient of the Preston R. Brown
Memorial Award as the most valuable
senior athlete. Pembroke was captain of
both the cross country and track teams
and was the ODAC champion at 800
meters. Senior David Sizemore of Cov-
ington, Va., a wide receiver for the
Generals’ football team, won the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship
Award. McLeod, one of the three tennis
All-Americans, won the Outstanding
Freshman Athlete Award. Junior Dickie
Morris of Jackson, Tenn., received the
J. L. (Lefty) Newell Award for outstand-
ing student service in recognition of his
three-year stint as basketball manager.

 

Lacrosse Remains Division I

Each year Washington and Lee evaluates the status of

the University’s Division I lacrosse program. Lacrosse is the
only W&L team that competes on the NCAA’s highest level.
But like all the other W&L teams, it operates under Divi-
| sion III admissions and financial aid guidelines.
- —_  . | Despite the handicap of playing against subsidized teams
Pa ee Se the Generals have been successful over the years, playing in
the NCAA tournament eight times in the 14 years that it has
been held. Recently, however, W&L has had increasing prob-
lems competing with some institutions which are placing add-
ed emphasis on and more money into lacrosse.

This year, based on Athletic Director Bill McHenry’s
recommendation, the University has decided that W&L will
e continue to play within Division I but will shift the schedule
S A away from schools that give the full complement of scholar-

i ships to those schools with similar athletic philosophies and
admission standards, such as Ivy League members.

‘*It is in the best interest of the program, at this time,
to develop a more competitive Division I schedule for our
lacrosse team,’’ said McHenry. ‘‘We will be playing a strong
schedule, composed of teams that place the same emphasis
on lacrosse that we do.”’

The 1986 schedule will include three Ivy League
schools—Dartmouth, Cornell, and Yale. There will also be
Lh i gee MR a % 2 traditional rivals Virginia, Towson State, Duke, Washington
(Pitiliag Te eee - College, Loyola, and Roanoke.

Lite WOE cd

 

 

 

 

 

The Generals battle Virginia at Wilson Field.
30 W&L

Chapter News

 

Virginia Senators Welcome Washington Chapter to the Capitol

 

Members of the Washington, D.C.,
Chapter had a rare treat in June when
two members of the chapter invited them
to lunch.

What made the gathering more than a
little unusual was that the hosts were
U.S. Senators John Warner, ’49, and
Paul Trible, ’71L, and the luncheon was
held in the Mansfield Room of the U.S.
Capitol.

More than 90 chapter members were
able to take advantage of the opportunity
to get an inside look at the Capitol and
to dine in the same room in which the
majority party holds weekly meetings.

Sens. Warner and Trible, both
Republicans and both representing
Virginia, took time from typically hectic
schedules to speak briefly to the group.
Warner reiterated something he had told
the W&L law graduates in May when he
said that ‘‘I would not be where I am to-
day as a member of the United States
Senate had it not been for Washington
and Lee.””

In his remarks Trible underscored the
importance of the small, private liberal
arts college for the future of the country.

While Washington Chapter President
Beau Dudley, ’74, ’79L, presided, two
other alumni had a hand in the ar-
rangements since both Warner and Trible
have W&L graduates as aides: H. Powell
Starks, 83, is an aide to Warner while
Darren Trigonoplos, ’82, is a Trible
assistant.

x * *

Chapters continued to play an impor-
tant role in making new members of the
Washington and Lee family feel welcome
by sponsoring receptions for incoming
freshmen.

In Tampa, University Trustee Tom
Touchton, ’60, and his wife, Lee, were
hosts to the Florida West Coast
Chapter’s reception for Tampa students.
In attendance were alumni who had
assisted John W. Robinson IV, ’72, the
area’s Alumni-Admissions Representative
in the recruiting efforts. Those alumni in-
cluded George Harvey, ’63; Paul Buskey,
°70; Michael Airheart, ’78; Matt Valaes,
°79; Jim Davis, ’79; and Jay Fechtel, ’83.

 

At the Capitol (from left) Sen. Trible, Dudley,
and Sen. Warner

One guest who attended in the dual
role of alumnus and parent was John
Lawson Jr., ’53, whose son, John
Lawson III, will enroll in the fall.

Other chapters who held similar
receptions, in addition to those listed in
the May/June issue of the Alumni
Magazine, were: Westchester-Fairfield,
Conn.; Northern New Jersey; Tidewater,
Va.; Ft. Worth; Palmetto (Columbia,
S.C.); Richmond; Charlotte; and New
Orleans.

RS KR

As part of a new program to
familiarize alumni with estate-planning
options, two chapters—Richmond and
Baltimore—held meetings in May with
representatives of the University’s
development office.

Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of
development and university relations, was
joined by Bill Washburn, ’40, and
Milburn Noell, 51, 54L, associate
development directors, for sessions on the
financial, tax, and estate aspects of the
charitable arrangements known as defer-
red (income-retained) or estate-planned
gifts.

The Alumni and Development offices
plan to coordinate such gatherings for
other chapters in efforts to aid alumni in

the formation of long-range tax and
charitable plans. Anyone interested in ar-
ranging a deferred-giving program should
contact the Alumni Office.

xk &k& *

Washington and Lee alumni joined
with graduates of other Virginia colleges
and universities for three different
outings during May and June. The
Jacksonville Chapter initiated a ‘‘Let’s
Get Together’? party for alumni from
W&L, the University of Virginia, and the
University of North Carolina (okay, so
it’s not actually in Virginia). Members of
the New England Chapter participated in
the Annual Virginia Schools Party at the
Opera House in Boston. And Michigan
area alumni were guests for an Old
Dominion Day Picnic at Grosse Pointe
Woods, Mich.

x *k& *
In news from other chapters:

NEW ORLEANS. The New Orleans
Chapter held its annual business meeting
in April and opted to restructure its
organization to promote continued
growth. Meeting at the home of John F.
Carrerre Jr., ’69, the chapter president,
the group adopted a set of by-laws that
called for the establishment of a board of
directors and specified election pro-
cedures for both directors and chapter of-
ficers. Ten alumni were elected to the in-
itial board. They are Carrere; Julian H.
Good Jr., ’78; Frederick L. Bates, ’76;
John R. Sarpy, ’72; Gus A. Fritchie Jr.,
°50; Harley B. Howcott Jr., 60; Dudley
D. Flanders, ’56; Richard K. Christovich,
°68; and Jeffrey J. Christovich, 81. The
chapter elected three directors ex-officio
in recognition of their long-standing sup-
port of W&L. They are Herbert G.
Jahncke, ’30; Joseph T. Lykes Jr., °41;
and John Minor Wisdom, ’25.

BALTIMORE & WASHINGTON.
Members of the Baltimore and
Washington chapters formed the nucleus
of a crowd of about 200 Washington and
Lee lacrosse fans who descended on
Baltimore to watch the Generals play
Loyola College in May. The two chapters
joined forces to present a pre-game
brunch at the Mount Washington Tavern,

W&L 31

 

BALTIMORE—Dick Moore, ’57, Reveley Moore, Ellen Brooks, and Trustee Emeritus Frank
Brooks, ’46, were among approximately 200 W&L lacrosse fans who watched the Generals.

then went together to the game. The
W&L contingent refused to give up when
the Generals fell behind by seven goals.
Instead, the crowd presented an a cap-
pella version of ‘‘The Swing,’’ which may
have been the turning point since the
Generals rallied to score a 13-12 victory.

BLUE RIDGE. At a reception at the
Charlottesville home of Robert G.
Brown, ’49, the Blue Ridge Chapter
elected the following officers: B. Waugh
Crigler, ’70, president; Richard H.
Milnor, ’70, ’74L, vice president; and
George B. Craddock, ’64, secretary-
treasurer. R. Lecky Stone Jr., ’76, is the
area’s AAP chairman. H. Dan Winter
III, ’69, is the chapter’s immediate past
president.

PENINSULA. John Elrod, dean of the
College, spoke to a dinner meeting of the
Peninsula Chapter at the James River
Country Club in Newport News in May.
Conway Shield, 64, ’67L, president of
the chapter, organized the meeting during
which the following new officers were
elected: Tom Cox, ’67, ’72L, president;
Herb Smith, ’80, ’83L, vice president;
and Kendall Jones, ’79, secretary-
treasurer.

PALMETTO. The Palmetto Chapter held
its annual spring business meeting at the
Palmetto Club in Columbia in May. Ben
Hale, a 1985 graduate of the University,
spoke to the group on the recently form-
ed student-alumni organization,
Kathekon. New officers for the chapter
are Will Newton, ’60, president; Preston
Covington, ’82, vice president; John
Hamilton, ’80, secretary; and Mike
Burnette, ’79, treasurer.

CHARLESTON. The Charleston (W.Va.)
Chapter’s annual dinner was held in June
at the Edgewood Country Club.

32 W&L

 

see

 

i

BALTIMORE—Rob Staugitis, ’82, (left) talks
with John Howard, ’57, at pre-game brunch.

iia’

 
    

-

BALTIMORE—Barbara Clements, whose husband, Bob, ’80, was an All-America lacrosse
goalie, and Jack Dudley, ’77, co-owner of the Mt. Washington Tavern, go through the buffet
line at the pre-game brunch.

BALTIMORE—From left, W&L geology professor Sam Kozak, assistant admissions director
Julia Kozak, and Tom Keigler, ’77, president of the Baltimore Chapter.

 

 

   

x

S—Directors (front row) John Carrere Jr., ’69; Fred

Bates, ’76; (back row) Gus Fritchie Jr., ’50; John Sarpy, ’72; Harley president; Tom Cox, ’67, ’72L, chapter president; Herb Smith, ’80,
Howcott Jr., °60; Dudley Flanders, *56; and Julian Good Jr., ’78 *83L, chapter vice president

 

NEW ORLEA

   
    

|

       

CHARLESTON—Dr. Kenneth MacDonald, ’36, (left) and Ed Seitz, PALMETTO—Attending Palmetto Chapter’s meeting were (from left)
°36, make plans to attend their 50th Class Reunion during the Leighton Stradtman, *84; John McCants, ’84; Ben Hale, ’85; Joe
Charleston meeting. Walker, ’76; Les Cotter, ’80; Preston Covington, ’82; Frank

Knowlton, 81; and Will Newton, ’60.

 

New
Alumni
Board

       
   

   

Daniel T. Balfour, ’63, ’65L Members Chester T. Smith Jr., ’53
Richmond, Va. Darien, Conn.
Class Agent, 1976-77 Westchester-Fairfield Chapter President,
1978-83

Class Agent, 1967-68

 

     

am Ff \ ;
C. Howard Capito, ’68 Wayne D. McGrew Jr., ’52 Thomas P. O’Brien Jr., 58, ’60L
Greeneville, Tenn. Atlanta, Ga. Cincinnati, Ohio
Board Member, N.Y. Chapter 1975 Class Agent, 1982-84 Southern Ohio Chapter President, 1984-85

Class Agent, 1978-83

 

 

 

W&L = 33

    
     

   

z p a ea
ee em , ne %
BL 44? Rit Sea ae fe + Ee

F , ee w eis Me Ke , ime aS & i "4 £ Pe: < ” ; ; ‘ r, we tL we GE y
Alumni sons who received academic degrees, standing behind their fathers (left to right): Robert C. Pearson, ’58, Robert D. Pearson; James T. Berry,
54, James T. Berry Jr.; Gilbert F. Dukes Jr., ’56, Gilbert F. Dukes III; George M. Young, ’54, Marshall R. Young; R. Gordon Gooch, ’56, Gordon

C. Gooch; John C. Dawson Jr., ’60, J. Cole Dawson III; William A. R. Dalton, ’55, Samuel P. Dalton; Manuel M. Weinberg Jr., ’31 (grandfather),
David S. Weinberg, ’55, Tod J. Weinberg; Walter Randall Sr., ’52, William P. Randall

ithe Be

More alumni sons who received their academic degrees, standing behind their fathers (left to right): James R. Wingert Jr.,
James T. McKinstry,

"48, Thomas N. McKinstry; Thomas C. Imeson II, ’61,

°54, James R. Wingert III;

Thomas C. Imeson III; James A. Wood, ’59,

James L. Wood; Robert V. Joel, ’50, William L. Joel; Theodore M. Kerr, ’57, Charles S. Kerr; John B. Kinkead, ’53, George B. Kinkead; William
H. Pifer, ’47, Robert B. Pifer; Thomas T. Bond, ’51, Henry M. Bond; John H. Brooks, ’45, Christopher H. Brooks

Alumni sons and daughters who received their law degrees from
W&L, standing behind their fathers (from left to right): George
H. Gray, ’SOL, Ellen Harrison Gray; William R. Mauck Sr.,
°52, William R. Mauck Jr., ’?79; William H. Hogeland, ’52L,
Webster Hogeland; Peter F. Matera, ’55L, Peter F. Matera;
Robert D. Miller, ’57 (not pictured), John McElwee Miller

Alumni sons and fathers not available for photographs were
(father’s name in parentheses): John D. Buchanan (John D.
Buchanan Jr., *61L); Scott D. Buschman (J. Hardin Marion,
55, “S8L); Banks R. Chamberlain (George A. Jones Jr., ’73L);
Alexander R. Fitzenhagen Jr. (Alexander R. Fitzenhagen, ’60);
Charles M. Hutchins (Christopher Hutchins, ’60); Julian C. Josey
III (Julian C. Josey Jr, 60); Allen S. Roberts (William L. Roberts
Jr., °62); Duncan H. Stone (Robert L. Stone, ’62, ’65L)

 

 

 

 

Still more alumni sons who received their academic degrees, standing behind their fathers (left to right): Chester T. Smith Jr., ’53, C. Taber Smith II;
Donald G. McKaba, ’56, Donald G. McKaba; Granville S. R. Bouldin, ’49, ’51L, E. Laws Bouldin; Sam Bendheim III, *57, Stephen H. Bendheim; W.
Temple Webber Jr., ’54, David F. Webber; William F. Robertson III, ’60, William M. Robertson; Fred B. Griffin, ’60, Edward M. Griffin; James E.
Lipscomb III, 58, C. Benjamin Lipsomb

Reunion Class
of 1935

Reunion Class
of 1960

 

W&L = 35

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, 14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

36

W&L

1917

Dr. ARCHIE E. CRUTHIRDS, at 91 years of age, con-
tinues to play golf six days a week at The Phoenix
Country Club and at Paradise Valley Country
Club. He sports a 34 handicap. Cruthirds retired
in 1979 after 50 years of practice as an eye, ear,
nose, and throat specialist. His 30 articles on eye
burns and injuries and causes of cataractous
changes in the eye have been published in national
and international medical magazines, and he has
spoken throughout the U.S., Europe, and Asia.
He and his wife, Dortha, live in Phoenix during
the year and spend their summers in La Jolla,
Calif.

1927

ALLEN HARRIS JR. is chairman and chief executive
officer of Harris-Rarkett Inc., a building and con-
struction business, in Johnson City, Tenn. Har-
ris enjoyed a successful moose hunt to Peace River
in Alberta, Canada, last September.

GEORGE W. SUMMERSON was honored by the
Virginia Travel Council, the Virginia Chamber of
Commerce, and the Virginia Hotel and Motel
Association during ceremonies at the Natural
Bridge Hotel in September 1984. Summerson,
described as a ‘‘giant*’ of the travel industry, has
served the industry for more than 50 years. He was
one of the organizers and a charter member of the
Virginia Travel Council. He is also a former direc-
tor of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce, vice
president for the Chamber’s southwest division,
and chairman of the Chamber’s travel develop-
ment committee.

1932

ERVIN J. ADE has been made an honorary board
member of the Fertility Research Foundation in
New York City. He is also an honorary member
of the Sleepy Hollow Country Club in Scarsdale,
N.Y., and is listed in Who’s Who. Ade has been
living in Palm Beach, Fla., since 1979.

CHARLES E. DUNCAN is retired from his own
engineering and architectural firm. He lives in Vero
Beach, Fla.

JAMES S. POLLAK is awaiting the publication of his
new book The Jubilant Delinquent. The book in-
cludes a chapter about Pollak’s years at W&L.

1934

KENNETH R. COLE recently moved to Denville,
N.J., to be closer to his children, who live in the
New York area.

After 44 years of practicing law, Epwin H.
PEWETT retired in 1983 from the firm of Glassie,
Pewett, Dudley, Beebe & Shanks in Washington,
D.C. Pewett and his wife continue to live in Chevy
Chase, Md., and their three sons and five grand-
children live nearby. In the winter the Pewetts
spend time in sunny Arizona.

 

Gulf

of

 

 

 

 
  

commercial real ¢ estate service-office investments
for SEG/Corrigan, Inc., in San Diego, Calif. |

 
 
    

million venture capital fu id that invests ‘in
consumer-oriented early-stage businesses. The ex-
ecutive offices of Market Corp. Ventures are
, in Westp ort, Conn. Kurz, lives in New

  
    
 

 

      
  
  
  
 

  

GR. M t JOHNSON Ill moved to Roanoke, Va.,
in ji une 1985 and became vice president and
regional trust administrator with EF Bank of Virginia
Hust Co.

 

 

ised real lestate developer. I
itk h his wife, Linda; stepdau

In January Norsert w. IRVIN! ace] Si- \
tion of visual 2 art ai to the division of arts Bir rmi

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Betsy, and daughters, Ann Elizabeth, 9, Margaret,
7, and Katherine, 4, live in New Haven, Conn.

1968

JOSEPH W. BRown, an attorney in Las Vegas, was
reappointed as a commissioner on the Foreign
Claims Settlement Commission. He served as
deputy counsel to the 1984 Republican National
Convention.

W. GILBERT FAULK JR. has resigned as vice presi-
dent/legal of Dow Jones and Co. to start his own
international law firm.

JOHN M. LEE recently published an introduction
to the poetry of C.P. Carafy, an early 20th-century
Greek poet. Lee is an assistant professor of English
at James Madison University. He lives in Harrison-
burg, Va., with his wife, Robin Haig, a free-lance
dance teacher for the Richmond Ballet Company,
and their daughters, ages 6 and 8.

BARRY J. LEVIN has been elected president of the
Jewish Campus Activities Board of Philadelphia.
Levin lives in Bala-Cynwyd and is a partner in the
law firm of Braemer and Kessler. He has been ac-
tive in many segments of the Federation of Jewish
Agencies of Greater Philadelphia and is a member
of the board of directors of Beth Am Israel
Congregation.

Dr. BENJAMIN H. JOHNSON III was initiated into
the American College of Surgeons at the annual
meeting in San Francisco in October 1984. He
practices in Birmingham, Ala.

JOHN W. RIcE JR. has been selected for promo-
tion to lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force.
He is stationed at Albuquerque.

JAMES L. SLATTERY recently became vice president
and general counsel of Paradyne Corp. in Largo,
Fla.

Mas. JOHN B. SwIHART is the judge advocate for
the Eisenhower Army Medical Center at Fort Gor-
don, Ga. He spent two years in the same capacity
at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San An-
tonio, Texas. Swihart lives in Augusta, Ga.

PETER W. TOOKER is a technical analyst with the
American Mining Congress in Washington, D.C.
He lives in Chevy Chase, Md.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. PATRICK K. AREY, a son,
John-Patrick, on Aug. 23, 1984. He joins his
sisters, Molly, 5, Anne, 11, and Lindsay, 12. The
family lives in Baltimore, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. ALLEN R. CASKIE, a son,
Ryan Maxwell, on March 7, 1985. Caskie, his wife,
Nena, and their son live in McLean, Va.

Gary D. SILVERFIELD is president of Landcom,
Inc., a real estate development firm involved in
the development, syndication and management of
shopping centers, hotels and motels, apartments
and condominiums. He lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

THORNTON M. HENRy (See 1966.)

1970

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GEORGE W. HAMLIN, a
son, Todd William, on Dec. 10, 1984. He joins

a sister, Kristin. Hamlin is manager of new
business development for Lockheed-Georgia, in
Marietta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DAVID R. KATZ, a son,
Avram Benjamin, on Aug. 4, 1984, in Madison,
Wis. Katz for the past year has worked as a resear-
cher for the PBS series The New Tech Times, a
weekly news magazine on new technology seen on
more than 200 stations nationwide.

THE REV. RICHARD W. CAPRON is writing his doc-
toral dissertation at Drew University in Madison,
N.J. He is also serving as an assistant lacrosse
coach at Drew for former W&L coach, Dick
Szlasa.

STUART C. FAUBER has been promoted to com-
mander in the Naval Reserve. He is vice president
and commercial loan officer for United Virginia
Bank of Lynchburg. He serves as one of the two
alumni representatives to the Washington and Lee
University Athletic Committee.

FRANK E. FISHER JR. received his master’s degree
in biomedical engineering in 1982 from the Univer-
sity of Virginia. Fisher now lives in Rio Rancho,
N.M., where he works in the medical device
industry.

THOMAS D. RoBsON is manager of proprietary
training as a senior vice president of Lehman
Government Securities, a division of Sherson
Lehman American Express in New York. He lives
in Plandome, N.Y., with his wife, Rose Marie, and
four children, Amanda, 9, Douglas, 7, Gregory,
4, and Abigail, 2.

197]

BIRTH: MR.AND Mrs. WILLIAM M. JACOBS, a
daughter, Rachel Lesley, on Aug. 15, 1984. She
joins Poppy, 7, and twins, Marjorie and Celia, 2.
Jacobs continues to practice pediatrics in Roanoke,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. WALTER W. May, a son,
Robert Render, on June 12, 1984. He joins a
brother, Richard, 4. May has entered the private
practice of law in Lexington, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WALTER G. PETTEY III,
a son, Stephen Blacksher, on May 9, 1984. Pet-
tey is a partner in the law firm of Pettit and Mar-
tin, practicing in the firm’s Dallas office.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. JOSEPH B. PHILIPs III, a
son, Ian Mallonee, on July 24, 1984, in Birm-
ingham, Ala. Philips was winner of the 1985
Young Investigator Award from the Society of
Critical Care Medicine for his research work.

HENRY J. BLACKFORD III has been named senior
vice president in charge of all Charleston area of-
fices of The Citizens and Southern National Bank
of South Carolina.

G. CARR GARNETT is costume designer for the CBS
daytime television series, As the World Turns.

CALVERT S. WHITEHURST works in government
relations for the Arco Corp. in Washington. He
is on the Fellowship Council of St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church and was a delegate to the
Virginia Republican Convention. He lives in Ar-
lington, Va.

BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT is serving a fifth term in
the Texas House of Representatives. He practices
law in Houston, where he lives with his wife and
three children.

WALTER J. BoRDA (See 1967.)

1972

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. STEPHEN D. ANNAND, a
son, Wesley Spradlin, on March 17, 1985, in
Charleston, W.Va. He joins a brother, Franklin
Darley, 4.

W. ALLAN GARRETT JR. has completed both a
master’s degree and a second bachelor’s degree at
East Tennessee State University and is enrolled at
the Medical University of South Carolina College
of Medicine in Charleston.

ROBERT S. GRIFFITH II practices law in Newton
Grove, N.C., with a limited practice also in Fayet-
teville. He graduated from the Campell Universi-
ty School of Law in 1980 and lives in Newton
Grove with his wife, Carol, and daughter Kelly,
2. Griffith recently lost a bid for a seat in the North
Carolina Senate.

Harry J. PHILLIPS JR., previously a regional vice
president of the Southeastern Region of Browning-
Ferris, one of the nation’s largest waste-disposal
operations, has been named an executive vice presi-
dent with responsibilities for the company’s North
American Solid-Waste Operation.

JOHN B. WoopDLIEF was admitted to the partner-
ship of Price Waterhouse, effective July 1, 1985,
in the firm’s New York office.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. RICHARD V. ANDERSON,
a son, Blake Bailey, on April 29, 1985, in Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

JAMES G. HARDWICK works for Charles A. Rose
Co. in Richmond, selling homes in that city’s Fan
and West End districts as well as dealing in com-
mercial, investment, and multifamily property
throughout the city. As a CPA he maintains a
small practice during tax season. He and his wife,
Anne, live in Richmond.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER has been promoted to the
San Jose, Calif., executive education center as an
advisory instructor. Hollinger will be teaching
customer chief executive officers about data pro-
cessing and its management. Earlier in the year,
he received the outstanding Regional Designated
Specialized Award.

 

LaT W. Purser III of
Charlotte has been
elected as the alumni
representative to the
University’s Athletic
Committee. He is a
former Charlotte
Chapter president
and was AAP chair-
man from 1980 to
1983.

 

 

 

 

W&L 39

 

Oo _
- a a = 7 :

a Hine cater
dig 4 saliehl

 

 

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV is a consulting actuary
with The Wyatt Company in Washington, D.C.

J. WILLIAM PIERCE JR. is an associate with the
Memphis law firm of Glankler, Brown, Gilliland,
Chase, Robinson, and Raines.

ROBERT C. ROGERS is doing post-doctoral work in
applied mathematics at the University of Wiscon-
sin at Madison.

JOHN C. TOMPKINS has recently moved to
Baltimore, Md., where he is a broker with Alex.
Brown & Son. Tompkins was previously with
Reynolds Aluminum in Salt Lake City, Utah.

1980

MARRIAGE: Grecory B. DYER and Diane
Margaret Stone on Sept. 15, 1984. Drew Sims, ’79,
Steve Smith, ’80, and Don Swaggart, ’80, were in
the wedding. The couple lives in Bethesda, Md.,
where Dyer is a CPA with Frantz Warrick Strack
and Associates.

JOHN R. CLarRK III is an associate counsel to
Stewart Investment Co. in Washington, D.C. He
lives in Alexandria.

WILLIAM R. AND BETSY CALLICOTT GODDELL have
moved to Atlanta, Ga. William has rejoined the
home office of King & Spalding and Betsy has join-
ed Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan as an associate
in their corporate department.

ROBERT B. EARLE decommissioned the USS
Thomas Jefferson (SSN 618) as the navigator and
operations officer. After vacationing in Australia
and New Zealand, Earle plans to leave the Navy
for a career in private business.

JOHN C. HAMILTON has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president and manager of career develop-
ment for the statewide personnel department of
the South Carolina National Bank. Hamilton
began his banking career in 1980 as a management
trainee. Upon completion of the training, he served
as assistant branch manager in Columbia and later
in Camden. He returned to Columbia as manager
of college relations in 1983 and then worked as
manager of the personnel department before his
recent promotion.

STEVEN C. JOHNSON has completed his first year
of M.B.A. studies at A.B. Freeman Graduate
School of Business at Tulane University.

WILLIAM W. PAXTON graduated from the Univer-
sity of Virginia School of Law in May 1984. He
is an associate in the general corporate section of
the Richmond law firm of Williams, Mullen and
Christian.

ADRIAN WILLIAMSON III has been selected to
receive the 1985 Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
Hospital Annual Award for outstanding achieve-
ment in otolaryngology. Williamson is in his senior
year at Tulane University Medical Center in New
Orleans.

1981

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. JOHN L. FILE, a daughter,
Haley Broyles, on Oct. 17, 1984, in Beckley,
W.Va.

C. CLEVELAND ABBE and his wife, Trish M.
Brown, live in Portland, Ore. She is in private
practice and he is a title officer for the Oregon Title
Insurance Co.

CHARLES F. BAHN JR. graduated in May with a
master of divinity degree from Brite Divinity
School at Texas Christian University in Ft. Worth,
Texas. During the summer of 1984, Bahn com-
pleted an internship with the mid-American
regional office of the Christian Church (Disciples
of Christ) in Jefferson City, Mo.

J. Scott Carpozo has completed three years of

the combined J.D., ./f.B.A program at the Univer-

sity of Virginia. This summer he worked in cor-
porate finance for Morgan Stanley in New York.

VINCENT COVIELLO was promoted to the rank of
captain on March 1, 1985, at Fort Gordon, Ga.
After leaving Germany, Coviello received the Ar-
my commendation medal. He is enrolled at the
signal officer’s advanced course. Upon comple-
tion of the course he will be going to the 18th Air-
bourne Corps at Fort Bragg, N.C.

E. STEVEN DummiIrTT III, a senior medical student
at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake
Forest University, has been awarded a house of-
ficer appointment for 1985-86. Dummit will train
in psychiatry at the State University of New York’s
Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse, N.Y. He
received his M.D. degree May 20, 1985.

CapT. MALINDA E. DUNN has been assigned to
Fort Carson in the Army JAG Corps. She lives
in Colorado Springs, Colo.

JOHN J. Fox III was promoted to the rank of cap-
tain in the U.S. Army in January 1985. Fox, a
helicopter pilot, will complete his three-year tour
in Europe in September.

EDWARD A. JOHNSON is a physicist with the
materials characterization division of the Army
Materials and Mechanics Research Center.
Johnson lives in Watertown, Mass.

WARREN P. KEAN is an associate with the New
Orleans law firm of Phelps, Dunbar, Marks,
Claverie, and Sams. In the fall he will attend New
York University’s School of Law to earn his
LL.M. in taxation. Kean graduated in May from
Louisiana State University’s law school, where he
was a member of the law review, Phi Kappa Phi
honor society, and the Order of the Coif. He is
married to Andrea Phelps Kean.

A. WILLIAM MACKIE practices law with the Atlanta
firm of Cofer Beauchamp and Hawes, where he
specializes in foreign investment, commercial real
estate, and tax exempt financing.

GENE A. MaArsH has been granted tenure and has
been promoted to the rank of associate professor
at the University of Alabama.

M. Victor MCLAUGHLIN graduated from the
University of Alabama School of Medicine in June
1985. He is now a resident in general surgery at
the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in
New York.

CAPT. CHRISTOPHER S. O’CONNOR will resign his
Army commission in August to enter the Harvard
Business School. He is a fire support officer in the
9th Infantry Division artillery at Fort Lewis, Wash.

JAMES R. LARRICK (See Larrick, 1949.)

1982

MARRIAGE: STEPHEN P. BURRINGTON and Gina
Bernal Arrieta on June 16, 1984, in Denver. Bur-
rington works in the international operations
department of the United Bank of Denver.

J. PRESTON COVINGTON III is an account executive
for Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. in Co-
lumbia, S.C. He had been with Bankers Trust of
South Carolina.

CLIFFORD T. GORDON, an M.B.A. student at the
University of Texas, worked this summer in the
consulting division of Arthur Anderson in Dallas.

STEWART A. HINCKLEY is catering manager for the
new Radisson Mark Plaza Hotel in Alexandria,
Va. He lives in McLean, Va., with classmates
William Cocke and Bob Schmidt and Chad Plum-
ly, ’85.

TIMOTHY D. LoBACH is a foreign currency options
floorbroker for Merrill Lynch on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange.

ALEXANDER W. MCALISTER is the national market
sales manager for the taxable investment area of
North Carolina National Bank. He lives in
Charlotte, N.C.

ROBERT D. MCLEAN Jr. will graduate from the
University of Florida College of Law in December
1985. He is a summer associate with the Boca
Raton law firm of Burke, Bosselman. He spent
the summer of 1984 sea-kayaking on Prince
William Sound in Alaska.

MICHAEL J. MALESARDI has been promoted to
senior accountant with Price Waterhouse in
Washington, D.C.

JAMES O. MOoorRE JR. is opening a barbecue
restaurant in Bedford, Va.

CHRISTOPHER L. MULLER is assistant to the chair-
man of Laidlaw Adams and Peck, Inc., an invest-
ment banking firm in New York. In the fall he will
enroll in the Colgate Darden Business School at
the University of Virginia.

WALTER B. PARRISH has recently accepted a posi-
tion as a commercial leasing associate: with Col-
lins, Tuttle & Company in New York City.

MICHAEL J. PRESSLER has been promoted to the
rank of first lieutenant in the U.S. Army. He is
a training officer with the U.S. Military Academy
at West Point, N.Y.

PATRICIA E. SINSKEY is an associate with the Los
Angeles firm of Weissburg and Aronson. She
specializes in health law.

Tony A. TRUIJILLA JR. lives in Washington, D.C.,
and works as an account executive with Doremus
and Company, a New York-based financial public
relations and advertising firm. He works with a
variety of corporate clients and foreign
governments.

THOMAS A. WILSON attends Vanderbilt Medical
School.

ROBERT M. Couch (See 1978.)
W&L 41

 

         

jon oun se s

 

enrolled oat Faia rotary’ wing vie

   
 
     
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 

 

In January ANcus M. McBryYDE started work for
he First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C.
He is in the corporate banker’s development

 

    

a Waldrop Realty Co. in n Salem, Va. -

  
   

lesigns new and impro\ mposite tennis and
: h racquets. Webb lives ir in Pennington, N. .

 
  
 

 

von > Lr. J. TyRus SEIDULE recently ere juated fr
ne and ra anger schools. He is is ; now an ar 1c

 
 
  

train 1 program nal First National Bank of of -
Atlan ta.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so a pee : ;
te
12 ae :

Howarp BurTon Lee, 4 author of Bloodletting in in
Appalachia ; and two-term attorney general 0 of West

  

 

 
 

Co. in » Atlanta. 7

 

    
   
 
     
   
 
     
 
 
    

   

Louts M. Dupin attend

Law School. Durin; 7
Chinese trade law in Beijung, She
Kong. (Dubin lives | in Wa hi

   

 

 
 

has comp eted two years of medical | 1e
U verily © of ‘Tennessee Center” for the Health

 

 

 
 

chian at area, The Burning Springs sand O.
of the Little Kanawha, Published in 1968.

 

    

 

member of Trinity United Methodist Church,
where he served as a trustee, treasurer, and
superintendent of the church school for 40 years.
Barrick was also a member of the Martinsburg
Lions Club and served as its secretary, treasurer,
and president. In addition, he acted as governor
of District 29V of West Virginia Lions Interna-
tional. Barrick was in the retail jewelry business
in Martinsburg for over 60 years and was active
in many local civic and business projects during
his long career.

1921

HOWARD GRAY FUNKHOUSER, a lifelong teacher
of mathematics, died Dec. 31, 1984, in Exeter,
N.H. Shortly after graduating magna cum laude
and Phi Beta Kappa, he joined the W&L
mathematics department, where he achieved the
rank of associate professor. During the summer
he pursued graduate work at Columbia Universi-
ty. In 1932, while he was working on his Ph.D.,
he was appointed to the Columbia faculty, and the
following year he accepted a position at Exeter
Academy in New Hampshire. He received his doc-
torate from Columbia in 1937. In addition to his
classroom duties, he collaborated with Arthur
Weeks to write the text Plane Trigonometry. He
engaged in many phases of Academy life and was
an active participant in a number of civic affairs,
ranging from health organizations to the Rotary
Club to the Historical Society. He also helped to
found Exeter Day School. Funkhouser was a
lifetime member of the Exeter Congregational
Church, where he served as senior deacon and
treasurer of the benevolent fund for 20 years.

ROBERT BLAIR PRICE, a retired insurance broker,
died April 5, 1985, in Kennett Square, Pa.

1922

WILLIAM FRANKLIN PORTLOCK, a retired vice presi-
dent of Old Dominion Tobacco Co., died March
26, 1985. Portlock, a Norfolk native, had been
with the Old Dominion Co. for more than 50
years. He was a member of First Lutheran Church
of Norfolk, the Norfolk Rotary Club, Princess
Anne Country Club, and the Norfolk Yacht and
Country Club. He worked with the Boys’ Club of
Norfolk for many years.

1926

WILLIAM RODGERS MARCHMAN, retired president
of R.I. Marchman & Co. Inc., a farming business
in Georgia, died March 14, 1985, in Venice, Fla.
After his graduation from W&L Marchman
studied law, and in 1928 he began work for the
Far Eastern division of The National City Bank
of New York. After a year’s training in New York,
Marchman left for the Far East, where he spent
11 years until he resigned from the bank in 1939.
He spent several years with his father’s firm in Fort
Valley, Ga., and also got involved in real estate
and peach farming. In 1946 Marchman bought a
house in Venice, Fla., where he spent his winters.
He lived in Brevard, N.C., during the summer.

1928

ROBERT WILSON COLES, a retired self-employed
businessman, died on April 4, 1983, in New
Milford, Conn., after a short illness.

MAXWELL PENROSE WILKINSON, a literary agent
and a former editor of Collier’s Magazine, died
May 23, 1985, at his summer home in Shelter

Island, N.Y. During the 1930s and 1940s he was
an editor of Adventure, Good Housekeeping, Col-
lier’s, and Esquire magazines. He was also story
editor with the Samuel Goldwyn Productions mo-
tion picture company. In 1949, Wilkinson and
Kenneth Littauer, another former editor of Col-
lier’s, started a literary agency, whose clients in-
cluded Kurt Vonnegut, John D. MacDonald, Ir-
vin Shaw, Vance Packard, and Quentisi Reynolds.
Wilkinson continued the business until his death.
Born in Brookhaven, Miss., he grew up in New
Orleans and Memphis. He was a former member
of the Century Association and the Shelter Island
Yacht Club & Sardiners Bay Country Club in
Shelter Island, N.Y.

1929

WORTHINGTON Brown, founder and president of
Southern Material Handling Co. and a former ex-
ecutive vice president of the Trippeer Organiza-
tions, died in March 1985 at his home in Mem-
phis. Brown is believed to have organized and led
the first Cub Scout pack in Memphis. He was also
a member of the University Club, the Memphis
Country Club, and the Flat Fork Hunting Club.
Brown had recently been honored by the Boy
Scouts of America for his service to scouting.

RICHARD DYE CARVER, the owner of Carver In-
surance Agency for 25 years, died Dec. 16, 1984,
following a lengthy illness at his home in Troy,
Ohio. He was retired from Carver Investment Ser-
vice. Carver was a member of the Trinity Episcopal

~ Church and the Patriarch Club and an honorary

member of the Troy Rotary Club.

RUFFIN ALCORN COOPER, a retired vice president
of McAllen State Bank in McAllen, Texas, died
May 9, 1985, after a short illness. Born in
Clarksdale, Miss., Cooper had lived in McAllen
for the past 10 years and had previously lived in
Pharr, Texas, for 30 years. He was a member and
former vestryman of Trinity Episcopal Church,
a member of McAllen Country Club and the
Valley Humane Society, and a former member of
the McAllen Rotary Club.

JOHN STOVALL RAGLAND, retired owner and presi-
dent of Stevenson Tile and Terrazzo in Lakeland,
Fla., died Dec. 29, 1984. Prior to moving to
Florida, he was treasurer of Penick and Ford Ltd.
in New York City. Ragland was a member of Kap-
pa Sigma fraternity, The American Philatelic
Society, the Lakeland Kiwanis Club, and the Con-
trollers Institute.

1931

WILLIAM JOHNSON TOWLER JR., a retired vice presi-
dent of the former Capitol Planning Services in
Nashville, Tenn., died Feb. 19, 1985. The business
was a subsidiary of J.C. Bradford & Co. in
Nashville. Towler received his law degree from the
former Cumberland University Law School in
Lebanon. He was a veteran of World War II and
a member of the First Presbyterian Church.

1932

JOHN ROBERT Hornor, a leader in the oil and gas
industry who was prominent in civic affairs in
Clarksburg, W. Va., died May 10, 1985, after a
brief illness. Hornor was a former president of the
Delaware Gas Company. At the time of his death,
he was a member of the board of directors of the
Stonewall Gas Company in Richmond, which has
drilled wells in Virginia, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West

Virginia, and several western states. He was a
former president and a member of the board of
directors of the West Virginia Oil and Gas Associa-
tion. He also served as chairman of the eastern
division of production of the American Petroleum
Institute. He acted as chairman and a member of
the board of directors of the Harrison County
Chapter of the American Red Cross and was a
former general campaign chairman of the Harrison
County United Fund. In addition, he was a
member of the Christ Episcopal Church. Hornor
served in the U.S. Navy in World War II and
retired with the rank of commander.

FLoyD ELLSworTH MCKEE, a retired vice president
of Bankers Trust Company, died July 29, 1984,
in Corvallis, Ore. McKee joined the bank in 1934
and rose to the vice presidency in 1956. He was
senior vice president in charge of real estate when
he retired in 1973, and he continued to work as
a consultant for three years. In 1960, McKee
became treasurer and chief financial officer of
Grand Central Building Inc. He had responsibili-
ty for the financing of the Pan Am Building.
McKee was one of the founders and a lifelong
member of the Board Room, a luncheon dinner
club atop the Bankers Trust Building at 280 Park
Avenue, and a charter member of the Sky Club
in New York City. During World War II, he served
with the U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps
in Africa, Austria, and Italy from 1942 to 1946.
He was awarded the Bronze Star and discharged
as a first lieutenant. McKee was a member of the
Larchmont Avenue Presbyterian Church where he
served as trustee and chairman of the finance
committee.

1936

JAMES Howe JOHNSON, a retired director of
forestry research and education at Chesapeake
Corp., died May 25, 1985, in Newport News, Va.
Johnson served for eight years on the Virginia
State Board of Conservation and Economic
Development, and during three of these years he
acted as chairman. In 1972 he received the Gover-
nor’s Conservation Achievement Award of the
Virginia Wildlife Federation, and this year Virginia
Forests Inc. honored him as the ‘‘Man of the Year
in Forestry.’’ Johnson completed two years of
graduate work in geology at Virginia Tech and two
years in forestry at Yale University. In 1940 he
became an assistant forester at Chesapeake. He
was made chief forester in 1945 and director of
research and education in 1962. He retired after
42 years of service. He was a member of the
American Society of Foresters and was active in
a number of pulp and paper organizations.
Johnson was also a Republican Party leader in
Tidewater and served as a chairman of the King
William County Republican Committee. He was
district governor of Ruritan National’s Chesapeake
District in 1972 and was a former chairman of the
board of stewards of the West Point United
Methodist Church.

194]

Rurus HALE SHUMATE, a retired executive vice
president and trust officer of First Virginia Bank,
died May 14, 1985, in Pearisburg, Va. Shumate
served on the board of directors of the First
Virginia Bank, West and was a member of the
Virginia State Bar Association. He received his
bachelor of arts degree from Emory and Henry
College in 1938.

W&L 43

 

 

 

       

 

 

eWeese Carter, ’27L........... .. 1949-71
‘James A. Wise, 32 ecececsees seeees 1971-76
UK. Thomas ae m

 

ow

 

 

 

 

“ont Sane '3L. ae a 1193349

1338 1976-82

“Phas Air ewe |

 

 

92, 999 Per Person
Double Occupancy

“7 03) 463- 8467

 
   

BCCI CICS GCGSICCGIICICGGSICCGIS CCGG CCGG CCGG ICICI GSI ICICI IGA IK aK a

 

_Or mt 6 Adventure

 

 

- “Class.

 

 

 

 

_ Zip

 

 

 

 

Make Plans

 

to See the Generals This Fall

Sept.

Oct.

Sept.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.
Nov.

CROSS COUNTRY

28— Washington College
Mary Washington
5—Roanoke College
Norfolk State
12—Catholic

Away

HOME
HOME

(Va. State Division II & III Meet)

19—Virginia Commonwealth
26—W.Va. Tech,
Bridgewater
2—Eastern Mennonite,
Hampden-Sydney,
Lynchburg
9—ODAC Meet

FOOTBALL

14—Emory & Henry
28—Centre College
5—Randolph-Macon
12—Maryville
HOMECOMING
19—Hampden-Sydney
26—University of the South
2—Bridgewater
PARENTS’ WEEKEND
9—Ursinus
16—Washington University

HOME

Away

Away
Away

Away
HOME
Away
HOME

Away
Away
HOME

Away
HOME

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

SOCCER
18—Shenandoah
21—Eastern Mennonite
26—Mary Washington
28—Newport News

2—Lynchburg

5—Messiah

11—University of the South
12—Maryville

1S—VMI

19—Gettysburg
23—Liberty Baptist
26—Hampden-Sydney
30—Roanoke

4—Averett

WATER POLO

7-9—Navy Invitational
13-1S—W&L Fall Classic

20-22—NE Varsity Invitational
28-29—Va. St. Championships

5-6—Southern League 1

11-13—SE Varsity Invitational

19-20—Southern League 2
1-3—-Southern League
Championships

8-10—Eastern Championships

HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away

Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME
Away

Second Class Postage Paid

The Alumni Magazine o | 7 sta
6 f At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WAS HIN GTON AND LEE UNI VERO! TY And Additional Mailing Offices
(USPS 667-040) | nee

Lexington, Virginia 24450

W. H. Auden |
J. R. R. Tolkien .

Ezra Pound
Eudora Welty

_ What do these authors have in common?
Their works are included in the 35th anniversary issue of Shenandoah,

The Washington and Lee University Review.

Shiehetedeit: An Anthology is a 512-page collection of the Shen ando ah

best stories, poems, and essays published in the literary
magazine since its founding in 1950.

Mr.*Daniel T.
211 Ralston Rd,
Richmonds VA 23229

 

ADAMS ¢ AMMONS ® AUDEN ¢ BERNSTEIN ® BERRYMAN ® BETIEMAN ® BOGAN
BRADLEY * BRONDOLI ¢ BURKE * CORN © COWLEY ¢ CREWS * CUMMINGS

The special issue includes fiction. by Flannery O’Connor, GhriisGitin’sinnvies WHC UhEREA bs Guakceeke ao Les
Joyce Carol Oates, Jean Stafford, and Peter Taylor; essays HE Phgmunhy pol abbin + nowanny vate talc A ENE
by William Faulkner, Katherine Anne Porter, Eudora Welty, ee ee
and Ray W ilu ee Dostey Dy ¢:..e. CAmMES) Aames -' in joes rape) wea ea lke
Dickey: Sh Vesa aay eigen Carlos Williams. ee

WHITTEMORE * WILBUR © WILLIAMS © WILSON -® WRIGHT * YOURCENAR

Pusticart’ Prcss is including the anthology 1 in its series of col- | From the First 35 Years
lections from literary magazines. .

Regular subscribers will automatically receive the double
--jgssue. Anyone who does not subscribe to Shenandoah but An Anthology
would like to purchase copies of the anniversary issue may
order them at the cost of $10 per copy (postage and handling _ | oe
included).

 

thenandodk

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my order for_____copies of Shenandoah: An Anthology at $10 each.
My check for $_ enclosed.

Name

 

Address

 

 

City . State | Zip

 

 

 

