ON @ Lege Gniverer

~

The Alumni ]
of Washingtor

March/Apri

 

 

          
  

ea

ate

 

Aych,
27g.756
WOWNTalu
V. 63

no. Z.

 

Principals in a major symposium on AIDS held on the campus in March were (from left) Tom Nye, head of the department of biology;

 

 

 

Dr. Mervyn F. Silverman, ’60; Dr. Robert T. Schooley, ’70; and Dr. Clifford H. Kern, ’70. |

THREE OF THE COUNTRY’S leading experts
on AIDS, all of them Washington and Lee
alumni, were in Lexington in March for a two-
day symposium on the disease. Dr. Mervyn F.
Silverman, 60, of San Francisco, Dr. Robert T.
Schooley, ’70, of Boston, and Dr. Clifford H.
Kern, ’70, of New Orleans, brought three very
different perspectives to the subject.

Silverman, who is president of the American
Foundation for AIDS Research and director of
the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation AIDS
Health Services Program, addressed the ques-
tion of public health policies. Silverman had
been director of health for the city and county
of San Francisco from 1977 to 1985 and was in
that position in 1981 when the first AIDS cases
were seen.

Schooley, who discussed research advances
on AIDS, is involved in AIDS research as well
as the clinical treatment of AIDS patients at the
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard

Medical School. He has received several grants
for AIDS research from the National Institutes
of Health and conducted one of the 12 studies
nationwide on azidothymidine (AZT), a drug
known for its properties that keep the AIDS
virus from growing in the body.
Kern, meantime, is assistant to the president
of IMREG Inc., a small biotechnology company
that announced in early March that one of its
drugs had reduced the progression of the
disease to full-fledged AIDS in patients who
have early symptoms. The new drug, known as
IMREG-1, was awaiting Food and Drug Ad-
ministration licensing and the presentation of
data in a scientific journal when Kern made his
presentation to a special Washington and Lee
seminar.
The two-day symposium was held under the
auspices of the Telford Lecture Series, which
was established by Robert Lee Telford, ’22, of
Naples, Fla.

 

 

 

oS

 

e -

N, | 68, TIL | -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oo

 

 

 

 

 

It’s Dukakis!

 

Mock Convention Stakes Record on Massachusetts Governor

 

utting its record for accuracy squarely

on the line, Washington and Lee’s

Mock Democratic Convention chose
Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis as its
presidential nominee during the 19th
quadrennial event on March 26.

The Dukakis nomination required two
ballots, reflecting the uncertainty that made
this convention a more demanding exercise
than any in the recent past.

Not only was the national picture more
muddled than in previous years with five can-
didates still in the race, but the convention
organizers pushed the event back from its
customary May date in order to force the
conventioneers to make a choice before all
of the primaries had been held.

In the opening address, former Virginia
Gov. Charles Robb underscored the
challenge that the delegates faced.

‘‘This year’s Mock Convention promises
considerably more mystery and excitement
than any in recent history,’’ Robb said. ‘‘Not
just one or two, but five Democratic can-
didates are still in the running—or at least
still breathing. And the nomination is
anything but a fait accompli on the
Democratic side.

‘In fact, most of the veteran pundits na-
tionwide are a little gun-shy by now and
aren’t at all sure what’s going to happen
next. And this convention’s legacy of suc-
cess in predicting the eventual nominee
means the eyes of the political world are once
again focused on Lexington this weekend.”’

As always, the key to the convention’s
boast of authenticity was the research that
the convention leaders conducted. State
chairmen had spent many hours making con-
tacts with Democratic leaders in their respec-
tive states in order to get an accurate picture
of the way those states are likely to vote when
the real convention convenes in Atlanta in
July.

Given all the uncertainty that has
characterized the Democratic campaigns, no
one was particularly surprised when none of
the candidates was able to garner a majori-
ty on the first ballot.

he major drama of the first roll call
came when the New York delegation
was called upon for its vote. The
delegates all stood and displayed handmade
‘‘Draft Cuomo’’ signs, referring to New

 

Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young gives keynote.

 

Arkansas Gov. William Clinton meets the press.

York Gov. Mario Cuomo, often mentioned
as a possible last-minute nominee.

When New York co-chairman Don
Thayer announced his state’s vote, he
launched into a long and elaborate endorse-
ment of ‘‘the governor.’’ Most in the hall
assumed New York was about to throw a
majority of its votes to Cuomo. But in the
end, ‘‘the governor’’ to whom Thayer refer-
red was actually Dukakis, who received 75
of the Empire State’s 118 votes while the
‘‘Draft Cuomo’’ signs were quickly
transformed into a fleet of paper airplanes
and replaced by Dukakis placards.

Dukakis led the first ballot with 643 votes
followed by Rev. Jesse Jackson with 495,
Sen. Albert Gore with 278, Sen. Paul Simon
with 139, Rep. Richard Gephardt with 118,
and Sen. Gary Hart with six.

That marked the first time since the 1976
convention that a candidate had not won on
the first ballot.

During the break between ballots, state
chairmen hurried to the bank of phones in
an anteroom of the Warner Center conven-
tion hall in order to get up-to-the-minute in-
formation from Democratic leaders in their
respective states.

With those conversations behind them,
the delegations began making the changes
that eventually led to Dukakis’s nomination.

For instance, the Mississippi delegation
had cast eight of its votes for Sen. Albert
Gore on the first ballot but switched those
eight to Dukakis after the state chairman had
conferred with a Mississippi Democratic
leader.

Virginia, which had cast 19 votes for
Jackson on the first ballot, moved 17 of
those to Dukakis on the second ballot after
similar consultations.

Other delegations followed suit. Some of
the shift involved votes that had gone to
Simon and Gephardt on the first ballot.
Simon had 139 votes on the first ballot and
only 16 on the second; Gephardt dropped
from 118 votes to six. But several other
states, in addition to Mississippi and
Virginia, released Gore and Jackson
delegates to Dukakis. Gore lost 74 delegates
between the first and second ballots; Jackson
lost 71.

Perhaps nowhere was the challenge of
this convention more apparent than in the
Michigan delegation. The Mock Convention

W&L 3

 

was held on the very day that Michigan was
Staging its caucus-like primary contest. That
meant the Michigan leaders spent more time
than their counterparts trying to track the
caucuses in that state.

““We were really getting on some people’s
nerves [with our telephone calls],’’ confess-
ed sophomore Russell Wilkerson, the
political director of the Michigan delegation.

And since the Mock Convention’s deci-
sion was rendered well before all the caucus
returns were in from Michigan, that state’s
delegation wound up giving Dukakis a nearly
2-to-1 edge over Jackson when, in fact,
Jackson eventually defeated Dukakis in
Michigan by 55 to 28 percent.

By the time Rhode Island’s turn came on
the second ballot, Dukakis had 833 votes—
seven shy of the 840 needed for nomination.
Since the hand-operated tally board lagged
behind the actual vote, it was not immediate-
ly apparent to the delegates that Rhode
Island’s 10 votes had pushed Dukakis over
the top.

But once the second ballot ended,
Dukakis had amassed 1,029 votes, or 61.3
percent, to 424 (25.3 percent) for Jackson.
The remainder of the votes went to Gore (204
or 12.2 percent), Simon (16 or .95 percent),
and Gephardt (6 or .36 percent).

The next order of business was the
nomination of a running mate. That is a
relatively new tradition for the Mock Con-
vention since this was only the fourth time
a vice presidential nominee has been selected.
But that process has quickly become a
popular way to counterbalance the com-
parative seriousness of the presidential
nominating process.

So while Sen. Gore wound up as the vice
presidential nominee, he had to contend with
a plethora of candidates, living and dead. In-
cluded among the nominees were Buffalo Bill
Cody (a Wyoming favorite son), Elvis
Presley (Tennessee), Chicago Bulls star
Michael Jordan (North Carolina), Kentucky
Wildcat guard Rex Chapman (not Kentucky,
surprisingly, but Idaho of all places), W&L
history professor Jefferson Davis Futch III
(who finished second to Gore with 196
votes), Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry
(Texas), Art Garfunkel (Illinois, in efforts
to recover from Paul Simon’s inability to win
the presidential nomination), and singer
Julio Iglesias (Puerto Rico).

Gore was finally nominated with 1,018
votes.

Now, of course, the convention leaders
can only sit back and wait until July to see
whether their Dukakis-Gore ticket becomes
a reality in Atlanta. If Dukakis is the
Democratic nominee, it would be a huge
boost to the Mock Convention’s reputation

4 W&L

Ta

 

ae

Former Virginia Gov. Charles Robb is interviewed after his opening address.

 

 

The New York float turns the corner off Main Street.

 

 

 

Don Thayer, co-chairman of the New York delegation, is ready to cast his votes for Cuomo. Or is he?

for accuracy since it would mean the conven-
tion has made four accurate selections in a
row, nine of the last 10, and 14 of 19 overall.

Ithough the balloting itself was the
climax of the two-day event, the
convention had much more to offer.

There was the traditional parade down
Lexington’s Main Street, featuring colorful
floats from all of the state’s delegations.

And there was a bitter floor fight over
the party’s platform, resulting in the adop-
tion of a minority platform that undoubtedly
reflected the true political leanings of the
delegates.

Then, too, there were the speeches from
a variety of Democratic leaders, both state
and national, whose primary themes were the
economy and education.

In his opening address, Robb, the chair-
man of the Democratic Leadership Council,
told the delegates that ‘‘Americans want
more than ‘feel-good’ rhetoric about the
future. They’re ready to be challenged as a
nation, as a people, to do better, to win the
world economic competition, to advance the
cause of freedom throughout the world, and

to secure a better future for their children.’’

Robb was followed to the podium by
Gov. William Clinton of Arkansas, who cap-
tivated his audience by calling for ‘‘a new
world economic system’’ and a commitment
to improving educational opportunities for
all Americans.

‘‘We have to make sure that every
American gets an education from cradle to
grave,’ said Clinton. ‘‘Education is no
longer the province of youth. The average
18-year-old in the work force today will
change jobs seven times in a lifetime.
Therefore, it is not so important what you
know, but what you are capable of
learning.’”’

Specifically, Clinton called upon the
Democratic Party to increase dramatically
student loans and scholarships ‘‘until we in-
crease by 50 percent the number of our
young people going beyond high school and
getting more education.’’

He further suggested that, as a condition
for those increased loans and scholarships,
the recipients ‘‘ought to be willing to be
public servants, to be trained as literacy in-
structors and to go into the cities and coun-

try all across America to teach adults in the
work force to read in return for the college
education that they are getting.”’

Education was also a major theme for the
keynote address by Atlanta Mayor Andrew
Young, who told the convention that ‘‘the
best thing we can do for the world is to main-
tain the caliber of university education, to
maintain the kind of creativity and freedom
for anybody in this country to get all of the
education that their mind can absorb at
prices that their pocketbook can afford.’’

Added Young: ‘‘An educated America is
a strong America—an America that uses its
moral power and its diplomatic power before
it uses its military power, an America that
uses its old men’s talents before it commits
its young men’s lives.’’

Aside from the economy and education,
however, one thing was uppermost on the
speakers’ minds. And Virginia Gov. Gerald
L. Baliles expressed that sentiment most
clearly when he concluded his welcoming ad-
dress by imploring the delegates to ‘‘give us
a candidate who can win.”’

If the Mock Convention’s track record
holds, the rest is up to Mike Dukakis. J

W&L 5

Five Years Later

 

A Conversation with President John D. Wilson

 

 

ashington and Lee President
John D. Wilson completed his
fifth year in office on Jan. 17,

1988. Two weeks later, at its winter meeting
in Lexington, the University’s Board of
Trustees granted Wilson a three-month ad-
ministrative leave. He will use that leave to
spend the fall semester of the 1988-89
academic year at Oxford University.

In announcing the leave, Rector James
M. Ballengee, ’49L, said: ‘‘During the five
years he has served as Washington and Lee’s
president, John Wilson has devoted an ex-
traordinary amount of time and energy to
the institution.

“‘We thought that he deserved some time
away from the endless duties of the presiden-
cy in order to reflect on the University and
its future as well as the future direction of
American higher education.’’

Wilson’s plans for the leave are not yet
complete, but he does hope to spend most

6 W&L

of the time at Exeter College of England’s
Oxford University. That will represent a
homecoming of sorts for Wilson, who
studied English literature at Exeter in 1953
as a Rhodes Scholar.

His presence at Oxford will also be part
of an active exchange program that
Washington and Lee has established with
that institution.

During Wilson’s absence, John W.
Elrod, vice president for academic affairs
and dean of the College (of arts and
sciences), will serve as acting president.

With his five-year anniversary just pass-
ed and the administrative leave coming up
in the fall, Alumni Magazine editors Jeffery
G. Hanna and Anne Coulling recently con-
ducted an interview with Wilson on topics
ranging from the implementation of
coeducation to the intercollegiate athletic
program to the general state of American
higher education.

 

 

W&L: When you were appointed, you
said that the University’s first obligation
would be ‘‘to protect the sense of quality,
sense of style’’ of W&L that was the product
of 200 years of tradition. Given the many
changes that have occurred during your five
years, how well would you say that the sense
of quality and style has been protected?

Wilson: Essentially the sense of quality
is transmitted by the faculty. That is to say,
the quality expectations of the community
have to be translated through the interaction
of faculty with students. The faculty are the
guardians of the sense of quality, and that
means that they define the level of sophistica-
tion at which the work is going to go for-
ward. If you think of university life as con-
sisting chiefly of elaborate conversations on
complex subjects, increasingly complex sub-
jects as you go through, then the difference
in the quality of one institution over another
is the level at which that conversation is per-


 

 

 

W&L: The implementation of coeduca-
tion on the undergraduate level is one of the
most obvious of the changes that have oc-
curred during your administration. How
would you place it in the history of your first
five years?

Wilson: Oddly enough, when I list the
University’s achievements of the last five
years, coeducation does not figure in any of
it. When I talk to alumni groups, I don’t talk
about coeducation as an end in itself. The
main impetus behind the decision to admit
women was that Washington and Lee need-
ed to become a more selective institution, the
quality of the academic conversation had to
be raised, and the prospect of men and
women together here held out the promise
that we would be able to achieve that in the
next 15 to 20 years. That doesn’t excuse us
from the constant and vigilant responsibili-
ty to make sure that the education we offer
is equally relevant to men and to women. It
also shouldn’t imply that women are some
kind of instrumental means to get to a larger
end but rather are fully enfranchised
members of this University community. But
the chief motivation—unqualified in my view
and certainly by the Trustees—was to ad-
dress the problem of making this the most
selective institution that we could possibly
make it.

W&L: How would you characterize the
University’s transition to coeducation—both
in terms of the practical matters that were
involved and the University’s success at an-
ticipating problems that have arisen?

Wilson: The practical things were not on-
ly easily overcome, but they were relatively
cheaply overcome. Most people feared it
would cost millions of dollars to change
Washington and Lee, and it cost only about
$50,000 to build a wall in the locker room
in old Doremus Gymnasium and to change
a few bathrooms around in the residence
halls. It was a very modest effort.

I thought we had a good coeducation
planning team. They did the work. They
went to Davidson and to Franklin and Mar-
shall to study the transitions there. They
wrote to Yale and Princeton and other
places, and they tried to anticipate all the
questions. But, of course, the transition con-
tinues. We haven’t even begun to tap the sur-
face. The most interesting thing to me is that
if you took a department that you would
worry most about, it would be the athletic
department. After all, they had 200 years of
dealing with only men, and there is a kind
of macho feeling about competitive sport.
During the coeducation conversation on
campus before the decision was made, there
was absolute unanimity of view in Doremus

8 W&L

that it would be detrimental to the program

in intercollegiate sport and physical educa-

tion if women were admitted here. And yet,
no department has turned around so quick-
ly and embraced men’s and women’s pro-
grams as fully as the athletic department. No
department takes as much pleasure in the
success of the women athletes, and I don’t
think any university had the right to see that
success as quickly as it has come in women’s
sports—success in the sense of esprit and
good team turnout and loyalty and also,
frankly, in victories. It’s quite unusual to win
in three years an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship in swimming with
only 350 women in residence.

So the transition continues, but I think
we anticipated most of the problems.
Recruitment of women faculty is an impor-
tant part of Washington and Lee’s evolution.
We have made a start, but we have a long
way to go there and will continue to work
on that.

WE&L: In your view, what have been the
effects of coeducation on the University?

Wilson: I think there are interpersonal
relationships that are developing across
gender lines here that are really healthy. I
think the idea of men living together and
then having women come down at periodic
points for social purposes cultivates, without
anybody intending it, a sense that women are
not terribly important, that they are social
creatures only, that men and women are
separated from each other’s intellectual life.

The friendships that are developed in the
classroom or in the Coop, the arguments that
occur in the classrooms and laboratories,
show men and women to be equally serious
people, and I believe that helps both men and
women here. So that effect, I think, has been
wholly positive.

Of course, it has improved the applica-
tion pool by more than double. We are just
much stronger as an institution now,
measured by the quality of the young peo-
ple who are interested in Washington and
Lee and who come here.

To have 85 voices on Lee Chapel stage
singing an oratorio by Respighi was absolute-
ly overpowering to me. To have our own
students acting in The Three Sisters, instead
of having to recruit from the community, is
healthy.

And I think that, over time, as we have
four classes [of women] and continue to fine-
tune the number of applications and accep-
tances and so on, I can see us developing,
frankly, a more residential life, a more self-
contained life, and that, in turn, will help us
to shape and influence the way we spend
time.

WE&L: Early in your tenure, you said that
your administration would have as a priori-
ty ‘“‘removing impediments from scholars
and their young apprentice-scholars.’’ How
is that accomplished and what has been done
thus far to reach this goal?

Wilson: When I said that I was really
defining what I think an administration
ought to be and do. The administration does
not define the primary activity of the institu-
tion. Staff become, by definition,
facilitators, creating the physical and the
logistical and the human elements that will
be conducive to a stimulating teaching-
learning environment. And one does that
mainly through the decisions one makes
about resources and seeing to it that the
academic areas get what they need in order
to be effective.

W&L: What is your perception about the
extra- or co-curricular life of the University
and what are your goals in this area?

Wilson: When I arrived here, I thought
the arts were badly underrepresented, though
we were getting good mileage out of what we
had. Too, I was a bit disappointed in the
single-faceted character of social life. There
was a deference paid to the needs of frater-
nities that was unbelievable considering that
35 to 38 percent of the student body did not
belong to fraternities. The Student Activities
Board, I found, would schedule nothing that
would in any way conflict with fraternity ac-
tivity. There was very little going on of an
all-University nature in terms of shaping
social life.

That isn’t to denigrate fraternities. We’re
grateful to the fraternities for providing the
social outlets that they do. But we’ve become
SO accustomed to having them do the whole
that we haven’t developed alternative ways
that both fraternity and non-fraternity peo-
ple can participate in the social life.

So I thought the extracurricular life was
a bit impoverished. I still believe that’s true.
I don’t think the Student Activities Board has
begun to define what a student center pro-
gram should consist of—from chess tour-
naments to faculty-student bridge tour-
naments to, perhaps, leadership training pro-
grams. I can envisage toastmaster club-type
activity going on there, the Outing Club,
debate, intramural sport—all of these things
have an enormous potential to grow and
flower and be more than they now are. But
up until now the Student Activities Board
had some few major social events and not
much else, and the fraternities are pretty well
in their own cycle, and I think we can do a
lot better.

W&L: How does Gaines Hall figure in
these plans to improve extracurricular life?

 

Wilson: When | arrived, I was surprised
at the centrifugal force of the University—
that is, how quickly we scattered out from
the campus to the fraternities and then
beyond that out into the community and the
country, so that when I had my first senior
receptions at the Lee House there were peo-
ple seeing each other who had literally not
seen each other in four years.

I wondered how this could happen at
Washington and Lee where there is alleged-
ly such a clear sense of identity with one’s
class and with the University. And once
again our fraternities can also be praised for
creating the only kind of post-freshman iden-
tity opportunity that the University provided.

When Woods Creek Apartments were
added in the 1970s, there was some change
in this. And now we have.added Gaines Hall.
Gaines isn’t going to provide everything that
we want, but we didn’t build that gatehouse
just to turn the corner. We hope to see many
wonderful things happen in that marvelous
room that was created: visitors speaking,
poets reading, receptions held. In short, we
hope to create an opportunity at least for the
residents of the hall to shape a life consisting
of more than sleeping and eating and
studying.

I think that this is a good step in check-
ing a little bit the need—not just the desire,
but the need—to go out and live in small
groups of three and four. I think that’s an
important experience, too. I wouldn’t want
to deny students the fun of living in their own
apartment for the first time in their lives. But
I really do think a stronger residential pro-
gram will help us to get more student back-
ing for student activities, whether those are
athletic contests or musical or dramatic
programs.

W&L: On the subject of dramatic pro-
grams, the University is past the halfway
point in its campaign to build a new Center
for the Performing Arts. What impact do
you hope such a building will have on the
extracurricular life here?

Wilson: First, we are eliminating an em-
barrassment for the University by proposing
this center. You would never take a prospec-
tive student to the Troubadour and say this
is where the University Theatre takes place.

We need a new facility to bring people
together in celebration of human possibili-
ty, which is another way of saying in celebra-
tion of the arts. In past years, somehow or
other, the arts were something only few peo-
ple did. It hasn’t been a very important part
of life here, frankly, and I think that’s too
bad, because I really do believe you need to
open up the pores of men and women alike
to the empathy and the exultation that you

can feel at a wonderful piece of music or the
sometimes deeply uncomfortable perception
of human weakness, or human strength, that
you find on the stage every now and again.
That’s part of the liberal education of young
people, too.

WE&L: Although you have already touch-
ed on the issue of fraternities, the renaissance
of Washington and Lee’s fraternity system
is a Major priority at the moment. What does
that renaissance movement mean and what
changes do you envision in the system?

Wilson: In ideal terms, a fraternal
organization is a membership organization
of people who cultivate or choose each
other’s company to do things together, in-
cluding managing the affairs of the house
and financial problems, conducting a respon-
sible social life, trying to find ways to be
socially useful to the larger community, and
finding ways to help younger members of the
University find their way around academical-
ly and socially.

If it is properly done, all of that can be
a very positive influence on university life.
There has been in the fraternity movement
in America an unsettling continuity of an-
tisocial behavior that has become somewhat
more omnipresent in the last 15 to 20 years,
and that is the negative side of fraternity life.
The fraternity can, if it is allowed just a tiny
little turn, become a receptacle for behavior
that is antithetical to the purposes of the
university.

My calculation is this: The fraternity
system has been a very important part of
Washington and Lee’s past. It has been con-
structive by historical testament in many,
many eras of the University’s previous life.
And it can be again. We ought to try to
return, as quickly as we can, to that construc-
tive mode, which is an enormous task since
it involves changing standards, styles, and
also physical environment. These are the
challenges we must address.

WE&L: Turning to yet another element in
the extracurricular life of the University,
what is your assessment of the athletic pro-
gram that is currently offered here?

Wilson: I want to see as much physical
activity as I can see consonant with the
academic aims of the institution. I want to
see intramurals at a high level of involve-
ment, which means virtually everyone involv-
ed. I want to see as many intercollegiate
teams as possible. I want responsibly to en-
courage club sports, so that the rugby players
or the fencers are competing against other
schools. I think it’s very, very good to have
an alternation between academic work, in-
tellectual life, social life, and vigorous
physical activity.

 

‘My calculation is this:
The fraternity system has
been a very important part
of Washington and Lee’s
past. It has been construc-
tive by historical testament
in many, many eras of the
University’s previous life.
And it can be again.”’

W&L 9

 

That is part of what attracted me to
Washington and Lee. It seemed to have a
good balance between athletic activity (there
were 13 men’s sports here, for example) and
the academic program. With women’s sports
coming on now, that is becoming an even
healthier sign of an appropriately organized
university life—undergraduate life,
especially.

. On the intercollegiate competition side,
the key is to see if we can’t arrange to be
playing as often as possible with our peer in-
stitutions. And by peer, I don’t mean our
athletic peers; I mean our academic peers.
That way we will be engaged in sports with
schools that have similar academic values,
schools that expect students to perform at
certain levels, schools that expect class atten-
dance and have rules about whether contests
can be scheduled during exams and know
about season limitation and contest limita-
tion, schools that will not find it very odd
that the institution believes it is important
for students to have some respite from in-
tercollegiate sport as well as engagement in it.

Our challenge is to continue to work with
our athletic staff to overcome some of the
liabilities of our location to reach out to more
and more peer institutions. This is all a long
way of saying that we need a sane, balanced
policy of academic work and athletic activi-
ty complementing each other rather than the
athletic getting out of hand and becoming
a more dominant area than it needs to be or
should be.

W&L: Another emphasis at the Univer-
sity during your tenure has been on the
revitalization of the science programs. What
are your hopes in this area?

Wilson: America has lost, somehow, its
commitment to scientific work. The young
have shied away from scientific work. I think
we have an obligation, from the secondary
schools up, to do a better job of exposing
students to the delights as well as the rigors
of scientific work, so that they don’t come
to college unfitted to go on.

The most significant thing that society
can do to aid and strengthen secondary
education is to insist upon entering standards
at the elite institutions. When we all said that
it is not important for students to have
foreign language study for a bachelor of arts
degree, we denied the secondary school
faculties the one lever they had to say to their
students, ‘‘You must study French for three
years or you can’t get into the college where
you want to go.”’

So, too, with science. What I’m really
saying is that if you say you really have to
have some experimental science in order to
be seriously thought of as a college or univer-

10 W&L

sity candidate, then more young people will
be taking it in high school. Some few will
then discover that this is kind of good fun.
And we won’t have to depend upon foreign
students arriving on these shores for most of
Our graduate enrollments in science and
engineering.

W&L: Thus far, we have discussed
primarily matters that have their major im-
pact on the undergraduate side of Woods
Creek. With the appointment of a new dean
for the School of Law (see page 18), what
new directions do you expect this area of the
University to take in the next few years?

Wilson: The new dean, Randall Bezan-
son from the University of Iowa, has a vi-
sion of smaller classes and a richer student-
faculty ratio and more insistence upon legal

‘writing and legal argument. He hopes to find

new ways to create areas of mutual interest
between undergraduate and law study such
as taking the emerging new areas of legal in-
terest in, say, bioethics and bringing visitors
here who can teach broadly based courses in
public policy and ethical subjects that law
students will profit from as much as will
undergraduate students. I believe that holds
great promise, but it will require us to invest
a lot of our time and energy and money in
further strengthening the University’s law
school.

W&L: We mentioned, in passing, Woods
Creek, which raises the question of the gap
that some suggest has developed between the
undergraduate and law divisions since the
law school moved into Lewis Hall. What is
your impression of the relationship that cur-
rently exists between these divisions of the
University?

Wilson: 1 think the relationship is
stronger than most people realize. When the
law school moved across the ravine I think
the residents there felt they were on the
periphery, and we forgot about them in
terms of interpersonal relationships. There
continues to be some estrangement in this
way. But thanks to several members of the
law faculty and especially to Dean (Frederic)
Kirgis, I believe there is more crossing of the
footbridge for the right reasons. We have law
professors coming over to teach some
courses and to participate in programs on
this side of the bridge, and there are some
undergraduate professors traveling in the
other direction.

And as I just mentioned, one of Randall
Bezanson’s ideas is to have some University
professorships that serve both communities
by addressing the broad social issues and
topics that are really the underpinning for
applied legal work. That will be an impor-
tant bridge as well.

WE&L: In any college community like this
one, there is often conversation about the
town-gown relationship. How have you
found the Lexington community in that
regard?

Wilson: | find first of all that Lexington
is very important to this University and that
the experience of Washington and Lee is in-
termingled very much with the experience of
Lexington. That is to say that when alumni
come back they want to see how ‘‘old Lex’’
is doing almost as much as they want to walk
along the Colonnade. It’s an important ex-
tension of our campus, and we have a pic-
turesque complementary community to
which to relate.

Too, there are a lot of bright, interesting
people here in Lexington who are not con-
nected with either Washington and Lee or
Virginia Military Institute. These people
come to hear lectures and sometimes to play
and use our facilities, and we are a better,
livelier community for their presence.

But then there are also the antagonisms
of having 1,900 young people concentrated
in a relatively small space such as Lexington.
Merchants, I think, sometimes forget that
much of their income comes from that con-
centration and worry about only the mess
and noise and occasional boorishness of
young people. But I think that on the whole
it’s a pretty good symbiotic relationship.

W&L: Moving beyond Washington and
Lee for a moment, what themes do you see
developing in American higher education in
general?

Wilson: Looking through the lens of
Washington and Lee out on the larger
American higher educational scene, I think
that we have been enjoined by everybody
from the Association of American Colleges
to Secretary [of Education William] Bennett
and others to bring more rigor and defini-
tion to the general or liberal education com-
ponent, to retreat from the elective system
that has been taken to extremes in some col-
leges. Washington and Lee has already ad-
dressed this problem very well with its new
core curriculum. It is not really new; it is a
return to patterns of study that we have
always thought were important—to in-
troduce students to their own culture, their
own Western values that inform that culture
and to scientific work and literature. That
move will continue in American higher
education, I hope.

I think another major theme for the
future of American higher education, and
probably for Washington and Lee, is to do
all each of us can do to help create a black
middle class, a black professional class. In
Our Own Case, we must give access to talented

 

black students who are capable of fitting in-
to a preprofessional undergraduate ex-
perience of the kind we find ourselves offer-
ing and who can succeed and can take their
proud places in business and the professions.
Our work in this area would never hit the
headlines in terms of sheer numbers. But it
will in terms of doing what I think is most
important for America and that is to have
more and more black people trained at levels
where they have a significant stake in the
society and so do their children so that we
can break out of this deep, deep problem of
a black underclass with a few people rising
to the top.

W&L: Many articles have been publish-
ed in recent years about the spiraling cost of
private education. What is your perspective
on that whole subject?

Wilson: I am a conservative on raising
tuition. I think tuition in the private sector
is getting very, very high, and I believe there
needs to be a check on the place of tuition
in this whole equation that is a university.
Yet, it is just as clear to me that the cost of
living indices for housing and transportation
and health costs and things of that sort in
the larger society bear only a modest rela-
tionship to the cost of living increases that
we must put up with. That has taken con-
spicuous form in recent years in computer
software and hardware, in library acquisi-
tions, in scientific equipment, and in travel
for faculty to attend professional meetings.

It is very difficult to keep these real costs
down and still maintain a proper environ-
ment or ambiance. The private institution
has to produce an environment where faculty
and students can have an optimal chance of
teaching and learning together. This is an in-
creasingly expensive task.

W&L: What about the University’s abili-
ty to offer financial aid assistance to
students?

Wilson: This is an extraordinarily impor-
tant area for us. As we get our larger pool
of students and have more requests from the
faculty for diversity—i.e., more science
students and more music students and more
lacrosse players and more minority
students—all this requires more financial aid.
We have one great advantage over many of
the even better-endowed institutions and that
is that we don’t have large amounts of money
going out the front door from unrestricted
income to support students in need. We have
all of that covered by endowment or by
restricted gifts or by the Pratt Fund, and I
think that is a discipline we ought to try to
maintain as best we can while still admitting
the best possible class with as much diversi-
ty as possible.

But every year the request for financial
aid grows. And we are going to have to fund
that. We need very much to improve our en-
dowment for student financial aid as well as
our endowment for faculty salaries. Those
are two key areas of endowment growth that
I hope we will see in the future.

W&L: What is the future that you envi-
sion for Washington and Lee? What is it that
you hope the University will achieve as it ap-
proaches its 250th anniversary?

Wilson: First, I want it to be universally
respected by the academic community as a
place of high seriousness with superior
students and a lively, engaged faculty. I want
it universally conceded a place in the top 15
to 20 institutions in the United States.

Too, I want us to polish and refine the
distinctive characteristics of this institution
that set us apart even in the top 15 or 20, by
which I mean I want the law school, for in-
stance, to be respected as an unusually strong
teaching facility—that law graduates who
come out of here are especially thoughtful
and articulate and imbued with a sense of
mission and a sense of high purpose about
the profession.

I want us to polish our preoccupation
with character and with dignity of the in-
dividual and with honesty, so that whole side
of our life continues to set us apart as
unusual—not unique, but unusual.

And I want it to be a place of great fun,
too. I want it to be a place where delight in
music and drama and athletics and checkers
competition is absolutely manifest.

There are many constituencies to appeal
to. You first have to earn the respect of your
peers. And by doing well you cultivate the
respect of your alumni. I think the alumni,
who always have been proud and deeply at-
tached to this place, are taking new pride in
the fact that we are obviously being recogniz-
ed in different ways by different organiza-
tions that matter.

W&L: Finally, how do you intend to
spend your time in Oxford this fall?

Wilson: | look upon this as a marvelous
opportunity to step back from the details of
every day and take a broader view of the
educational enterprise that is Washington
and Lee. I will not pretend to try in two or
three months to restore or recapture my in-
terest in Shakespeare or the 16th century, but
I do hope to do some substantive work on
issues involving American higher education.
I am particularly anxious for the stimulation
of colleagues in another university setting
that will help me examine where American
higher education is and to contemplate what
the next years of Washington and Lee’s
history should include. J

 

as a place of high

seriousness with superior

“7 want [W&L] to be
universally respected by
the academic community

students and a lively,
engaged faculty. I want it
universally conceded a

place in the top 15 to 20
institutions in the United

States. ’’

W&L

1]

 

 

 

John W. Elrod (left), W&L’s vice president for academic affairs, listens to comments by Vladimir Yarygin of the Moscow Second Medical Institute.

A Historic Exchange

 

Soviet Students to Spend Academic

Year at W&L

 

ashington and Lee has joined

forces with 22 other national

liberal arts colleges and univer-
sities to sponsor a historic academic exchange
program between the United States and the
Soviet Union.

The program will begin later this year
when SO students from the Soviet Union ar-
rive in the United States to spend the entire
1988-89 academic year in residence at the 23
American institutions that currently com-
prise the American Collegiate Consortium
for East-West Cultural and Academic Ex-
change. (See box for consortium members.)
As part of that consortium, Washington and
Lee will welcome three of the 50 Soviet
students to Lexington in September.

Then, beginning with the 1989-90
academic year, American undergraduates,
including three from Washington and Lee,
will travel to the Soviet Union for a year of
study at schools in that country.

The program marks the first time that
undergraduates from the Soviet Union have

12 W&L

been permitted to study in the United States
without officials in residence with them.

On March 3, representatives of the
Ministry of Higher Education of the Soviet
Union arrived at Middlebury College in Mid-
dlebury, Vt., to finalize plans for the ex-
change with the representatives of the
American Collegiate Consortium for East-
West Cultural and Academic Exchange,
which is based at Middlebury.

John W. Elrod, vice president for
academic affairs, represented Washington
and Lee at that meeting and was then accom-
panied back to Lexington by Vladimir
Nikitovich Yarygin, rector of the Moscow
Second Medical Institute, who spent a day
touring the campus and meeting with
members of the University’s faculty, ad-
ministration, and student body.

During a news conference held in Lex-
ington to announce Washington and Lee’s
participation in the program, Elrod em-
phasized the historic nature of the program
and called it ‘‘a simply marvelous opportuni-

ty for the students of both countries.”’

“This will give the students an opportuni-
ty to advance their academic specialties,
whatever those might be,”’ said Elrod. ‘‘But
it will also give Soviet and American
undergraduates the opportunity to learn the
language, the culture, and the history of each
other’s countries, to talk about the future of
our countries and the possible solutions of
common problems.

‘*The students will have these oppor-
tunities at an early age in their lives. The
hope is this will, in the long run, have a
positive impact on the relationship between
the United States and the Soviet Union.’’

In his remarks to the media, Rector
Yarygin expressed his hope that the program
can have an impact on future U.S.-U.S.S.R.
relations.

‘*It is of great importance that the young
people will go to the U.S.S.R. and will come
here to the colleges and universities of the
United States,’’ said Yarygin. ‘‘The young
people are those who, in the nearest future,

 

 

should be able to solve the main problems
that mankind is to see in the future.’’

Yarygin noted that it was particularly im-
portant that the exchange will be for a full
academic year since that will allow the
students “‘to perform some specific academic
activity’ in addition to getting a sense of the
country’s culture and history.

According to Yarygin, the Soviet students
will be selected to participate in the initial ex-
change program on three grounds. First, they
will have had to fulfill their programs in basic
sciences and be entering their major courses.
The second requirement will involve
language—that is, the Soviets selected to par-
ticipate must have skills in English.

‘‘The third ground,’’ said Yarygin, ‘‘is
the willingness and interest of a young man
or a young woman to go to the United States
to gain some of their education.”’

Yarygin said that the 50 students who ar-
rive for the first year of the program will be
studying a variety of different academic sub-
jects. He added that while there are real dif-
ferences between the educational systems in
the United States and the Soviet Union ‘‘the
extensive discussions that were held on this
subject showed that these differences are
possible to overcome. There are real inter-
faces between the two systems, and the proj-
ect will work.”’

The 50 Soviet students will arrive in the
United States in August and will undergo a
monthlong general orientation program at

  
 
 
  
 

Middlebury College. That orientation will
emphasize instruction in English and in com-
puter usage.

Following that orientation, the students
will spread out among the 23 consortium
schools. The three Soviet students who will
study at Washington and Lee will arrive in
Lexington in early September and will par-
ticipate in the special orientation that the
University conducts for minority and inter-
national students.

Elrod noted that Washington and Lee’s
inclusion in the consortium is especially grati-
fying since the University is the only institu-
tion from the South participating in the
exchange.

‘*We are just now in the process of tak-
ing steps to strengthen our Russian studies
program,”’ said Elrod. ‘‘Our ability to par-
ticipate in this program is going to contribute
uniquely to the study of Russian history,
language, and culture.’’

Although the exchange program is still
in its formative stages, Elrod said it is the
plan of those who have formed the agree-
ment between the two countries to expand
the scope of the exchange.

‘*It is hoped that when the program is ful-
ly matured there will be thousands of
undergraduates both from the Soviet Union
and the United States studying in these two
countries,’’ said Elrod. ‘‘This is just the
beginning of what we hope will be a long and
successful program.”’ [)

ae

Te ae
laght 7pe@!
Me tee
7 Lies
I no hs
% 4 ares
ee
ai, oe ae

ae fs ae.
r

zi :

Vladimir Yarygin (left),
who represented the
: oe SOviet Ministry of
eee. Higher Education,
== meets with Washington

and Lee psychology
§ professor Leonard Jar-
rard during a campus

 

 

American Collegiate
Consortium
for East-West Cultural
and Academic Exchange

The following institutions are
members of the consortium:

Amherst College (Massachusetts)
Bates College (Maine)

Bowdoin College (Maine)

Colby College (Maine)

Colgate University (New York)
Connecticut College
Hamilton College (New York) ©
Haverford College (Pennsylvania)
Middlebury College (Vermont)
Mount Holyoke College (Massachusetts)
Oberlin College (Ohio)

St. Lawrence University (New York)
Sarah Lawrence College (New York)
Smith College (Massachusetts)
Swarthmore College (Pennsylvania)
Trinity College (Connecticut)

Union College (New York)
University of Vermont

Vassar College (New York)
Washington and Lee University
Wellesley College (Massachusetts)
Wesleyan University (Connecticut)
Williams College (Massachusetts)

 

W&L 13

 

The Death of a Son

 

year ago, I learned of the death
A of our only child, our 22-year-old
son Paul. One of my early
thoughts was that my wife and I would have
no grandchildren. There would be no pass-
ing on of either our tangibles or intangibles.
There would be no children or grandchildren
to inherit our antique organ, the glassware
blown by Betsey’s grandfather, our silver-
ware, Our china or our modest financial
estate. Nor would there be children or grand-
children to listen to the family stories about
my father and his colorful relatives, the
stories of my youth, of Paul’s youth, of my
wife’s family or of our solid, if uncolorful,
married life.
This tragic episode in my life began on
a Friday morning when my wife called the
office—an unusual event in our family. The

 

14 W&L

By Albert F. Knight, ’51L

message was that a park ranger from
Yellowstone National Park had called her at
10:30 that morning to advise that our son,
who was backpacking in Yellowstone, had
been missing since Wednesday afternoon.
The details were sparse—he and _ his
backpacking companion had become
separated in rugged country; a search involv-
ing a number of park personnel, helicopters
and dogs had failed to locate him on Thurs-
day. The ranger was to call back at 12:30.
Betsey and I agreed I would stay in the of-
fice until we got the next report. Not hear-
ing from her by 1 p.m., I left for home.
When I walked in the kitchen, I saw that a
high school graduation picture of Paul that
normally resided in the living room was on
the table. One of Paul’s maps of
Yellowstone, badly tattered from use, was

spread out alongside the picture. My next
door neighbor was standing in the kitchen
embracing my heavily sobbing wife. My ra-
tional self told me that the scene’s message
was: “‘Your son is dead.’’

If there was any hope left, it was dashed
by my wife’s report: The ranger had called
at 1:15 to report that Paul’s body had been
found that morning; he had been killed in
a fall.

On our way to Yellowstone, I felt many
emotions, including anger and the irrational
hope that this was all a mistake. But above
all else, as we traveled that long day, I felt
lonely. I thought how strange it was that,
with my wife of 25 years beside me, in a
plane full of passengers and crew, and in air-
ports like Newark, Minneapolis and Denver
that swarmed with people, I felt alone. As
the months have gone by, the sense of
loneliness has diminished somewhat, but it
has never completely gone away.

I have been surprised by how the assump-
tions that a man’s child will marry and have
children—and that they will all outlive
him—are his constant companions, molding
thought and actions in innumerable subtle
ways. Suddenly, my thoughts and actions
were inappropriate, because the assumptions
on which they were based were no longer
valid. Until some new assumptions replace
those shattered by Paul’s fall, I feel like a
ship without engine, sail or rudder, floating
helplessly without direction.

I do not know what the future would
have held for Paul, whether his life would
have continued happily, as in the past, or
would have become a tortured experience.
But I am confident that the last few weeks
of his life were full of the joy and exhilara-
tion he always experienced when he embrac-
ed nature. His anthropology professor, who
saw him a few days before his death, and his
backpacking companion both reported he
was “‘enjoying his trip,’? was ‘‘in high
spirits’? and ‘‘on top of things.’’ Then, too,
he called me three days before he died, on
Father’s Day. After wishing me well, he
spoke with great enthusiasm about the trip,
the bears and two golden eagles they had
seen, the cutthroat trout he had caught and
their plans to go into the back country that
afternoon.

 

Paul Knight took this photograph of clouds hovering over the mountains on Wind River Range in Wyoming.

For each of us, grief is an individual emo-
tion, varying from person to person. I have
come to the conclusion that my grief is a
selfish emotion. I grieve because of being
deprived of Paul’s companionship, of being
deprived of sharing fully with him our recent
tour of the European World War II bat-
tlefields, of being deprived of grandchildren,
of being deprived of the task of helping Paul
find his niche in the world. I grieve, not for
Paul, but for the loss of the pleasures I think
his life would have brought me and my wife.

Yet, I have felt periods of contentment,
or at least relief from the intensity of the
grief. This came most notably at the time of
the memorial service. With my wife’s
assistance, I wrote a statement, which, for
lack of a better description, I called a eulogy.
I elected to read it myself. I felt strongly
about this, because my experience with
funerals is that the words spoken are fre-
quently platitudes delivered by someone who
knew the deceased only casually. I was con-
cerned whether I could get through my talk
without breaking down, so I made ar-
rangements to have Paul’s great-uncle com-
plete the reading if I were unable to do so.
At the service, however, I was in command,

my voice carried to all corners and never so
much as cracked. Afterward, I felt great
satisfaction and a brief period of content-
ment. I had a similar emotion at a private
ceremony I performed with my wife and
three of Paul’s close friends. We held it in
the West, beside a trout stream that Paul had
loved. Betsey read a few words, charging the
mountains, which had taken her son, to hold
and treat him gently. Then Betsey and I wad-
ed into the icy stream and jointly distributed
Paul’s ashes. Again, I felt relief, but not as
great a relief as I experienced following the
memorial service.

Just where this contentment came from
is unclear. It may have been nothing more
than a feeling of having done a job well. It
may only have been relief that the ceremonies
didn’t turn into a disaster. Or it may have
been something more profound.

Months have passed, and my wife and I
are still trying to come to terms with Paul’s
death. I know I must find an accommoda-
tion that will meet not only my needs, but
hers as well. Maybe that accommodation will
come in adoption, or in a commitment to
some charitable organization engaged in fur-
thering or protecting the environment to

which Paul was so dedicated—or in redirect-
ing our love for Paul in some fashion or
toward some objective that we have yet to
discover.

x * *

wrote the preceding essay more than

two years ago, shortly after the death

of my son in 1985. It was published
in The New York Times Magazine of June
19, 1986.

Following my return to live in New Jersey
in 1982, I became a fan of the About Men
column that appears each Sunday in The
New York Times Magazine: The essays that
appealed to me most were the emotional in-
trospective pieces, frequently about climac-
tic episodes in the author’s life. As I ex-
perienced the severe emotional turmoil that
followed Paul’s death, it occurred to me that
this is the stuff out of which articles for
About Men are made. I am not sure when
I decided to write an essay about my feel-
ings on Paul’s death, but I know it was by
late July. (Paul was killed June 19, 1985.)

I wrote the article Aug. 10 on an airplane
returning home after my wife and I had laid

W&L 15

 

 

Paul Knight: An Appreciation
By John McDaniel

Professor of Anthropology

met Paul Knight during a lunch

break on an archaeological site.
All the other students were eating, or
resting, but this one rather disheveled-
looking, short, blond guy was on his
hands and knees in a small stream.
Assuming he was recovering from a
previous night’s party, I asked him if
he were all right. He responded by
saying, ‘‘I’m fine. I’ve just found
some great Mayfly nymphs.’’ Nymphs
led to a discussion of fly fishing, and
I asked Paul to have dinner with my
family to continue the conversation.

We subsequently fished together in
Virginia and made plans to meet in
the West. During the summers of
1983, 1984, and 1985, Paul visited us
in the West. He showed us
Yellowstone Park, taught my older
daughter to tie flies, and chased my
younger daughter around our cabin
pretending to be a bear.

Paul Knight loved trout and the
places trout tolerate. He fished ex-
clusively with flies, and he released all
the fish he caught. His fishing success
was not predicated on numbers of fish
or their size. The only goal he ar-
ticulated was to catch as many
varieties of trout as possible. His pur-
suit of the many sub-species of cut-
throat trout took him to the most
remote areas of four Western states.

His parents supported his quest for
trout. Paul developed a special attach-
ment to the Yellowstone country. His
exploration of it was determined and
bold. He backpacked alone in the
Park and waded the Box Canyon of
the Henry’s Fork of the Snake River.
Both activities select for the brave.

Paul not only enjoyed the area,
but he worked for it. He was a
member of most of the organizations
that fight to protect what remains of
the American wilderness. He was ac-
tive with local chapters of conserva-
tion groups, and he volunteered his
time to work with fisheries biologists.
One impressive aspect of Paul’s in-
volvement with the environment was
his eagerness to share it. During the
summers he would always be taking
someone to a special campsite. He
guided Washington and Lee students,
high school friends, foreign visitors,

  
  

and entire families. His friends saw
places they would not have seen
without him. Many of them developed
commitments to protect the precious
areas.

I met Paul’s parents the day after
he was killed. From the endless hours
of that June day, through the cruel
details of the first week, to the small
ceremony on one of Paul’s favorite
rivers at the end of the summer,
friendships evolved.

Al and Betsey Knight taught my
family, and all of Paul’s friends,
about love, courage, and commitment.
Rather than run from the site of their
son’s death and be bitter about the
dangerous country, they returned to
Yellowstone to share in what Paul had
enjoyed and to extend his efforts to
protect it.

During the summer of 1986, Al
and I discussed the concept of creating
a memorial for Paul. I told him of a
program, developed in memory of the
great conservationist Ted Trueblood,

-~ Fairy Falls in Yellowstone
National Park. The
photograph was taken by
Ee Thomas Benzing of Bell

» Acres Boro, Pa.

that funded college students’ summer
work with environmental projects. Al
and I considered the feasibility of
establishing a similar program at
Washington and Lee. I presented the
idea to President John Wilson and
Dean John Elrod in September 1986.
In October 1986, a committee was
established consisting of myself, Pro-
fessor Brian Murchison of the law
school, and Al and Betsey Knight. The
Knights endowed the memorial in
December 1986. We are now making
an appeal for additional support from
Paul’s friends. It is our hope that the
first student(s) will participate in the
summer of 1988.

Paul Knight would be thrilled with
the program. He derived his greatest
enjoyment and satisfaction from in-
troducing young people to nature.
Those of us who have played a role in
establishing this memorial are deter-
mined to ensure that Paul’s spirit will
be associated with that process into
the future. LJ

 

16

W&L

 

 

Two trumpeter swans are shown in Yellowstone National Park in this photo taken by Paul Knight.

Paul’s ashes in a Western trout stream. I
made a short outline on the yellow legal pad
and then, uncharacteristically, wrote with a
rush—emotion, not intellect, drove the pen.

Once I got home, the article was typed
and shortened to fit the one-page format of
the About Men column. But I was
dissatisfied with the product. So I undertook
a second version—something more tightly
focused.

In November the second version was still
unfinished. I knew that having the essay ac-
cepted for publication by The New York
Times was a remote possibility, even for a
professional writer, let alone an amateur. I
felt I ought to get the agony over with and
get the rejection notice. So I submitted the
first version.

By this time I was aware that although
the essay had been written with publication
in mind, it was more a compulsive recording
of my feelings—a recording that somehow
made it easier to live with the reality of Paul’s
death. What I was doing was helping myself.
Later, after the Times showed interest in the
article, publication became important to me.
It became important because I knew that
publication in the prestigious New York
Times would have made Paul proud of me
and have given him pleasure.

A month after submitting the article I
received a telephone call from the editor of
About Men advising me that they were in-
terested in the piece but wanted me to work
on a revision. A letter followed describing
the revisions thought necessary. The princi-

pal difficulty was that because color art was
used in the column, there was a long lead
time between acceptance and publication.
The revised article, if acceptable, would not
appear before the spring. The opening
paragraph would have to be revised to reflect
that. And I was asked to review the closing
paragraph. It was suggested that the reader
would want to know how I had fared since
the scattering of Paul’s ashes: ‘‘You must
have reached some sort of acceptance or ac-
commodation in more recent weeks,’’ the
editor wrote. The revision was completed
quickly and resubmitted. The last paragraph
was rewritten.

I am afraid that my cover letter submit-
ting the revision was on the testy side. I
pointed out that I did not feel that I had pro-
gressed far in making a better accommoda-
tion to Paul’s death since the article was writ-
ten, but that the revised paragraph reflected
my perception of the situation as of January
1986.

So the final paragraph deals with the dif-
ficult issue of accommodation. It does not
speak of an accomplished acceptance, but
rather of the future.

I suppose one might fairly pose the ques-
tion: how successful have you been in find-
ing the accommodation hoped for in the last
paragraph of ‘‘The Death of a Son’’? I con-
fess I am not even sure what ‘‘accommoda-
tion’’ means in this context. If we define it
to mean that the pain of grief is somehow
made more tolerable, then I can say that
some accommodation has been achieved.

 

The need to close my office door and cry
quietly at my desk comes less frequently
now—but it still comes.

And the depth of emotion I guess is not
as great as it was two years ago. But it still
hurts. I: don’t expect the pain ever to disap-
pear totally. And I don’t want it to.

I cannot think of anything more tragic
than a father who did not grieve his dead
son. Someone said to me that grief is the
price we pay for love. So the pain will con-
tinue, for I loved Paul and he loved me very
much.

But the struggle goes on to put more
meaning into a life suddenly sapped of most
of its significance. My wife and I continue
to look for ways to redirect. our love for
Paul.

Our funding of the A. Paul Knight
Memorial Program in Conservation is a part
of that redirecting, a part of our accom-
modation. It was not specifically anticipated,
but it is patently within the scope of what
I had projected.

This is only a start. There is more, much
more, that I want to do in Paul’s name. My
first goal, however, is to have this program
be successful, and I am confident that it will
be. I want it to be a program that would
please Paul; a program that provides
enriching experiences for the participating
students; that benefits environmental
organizations; that benefits the environment;
that stimulates young people to become in-
volved in the environment and replace that
force stilled by Paul’s death. 0

W&L 17

The W&L Gazette

 

Two New Trustees, Law School Dean Named

 

wo Washington and Lee alumni have
been elected to the University’s Board
I of Trustees.

William Jacob Lemon, ’55, of Roanoke
and A. Stevens Miles, ’51, of Louisville were
elected to six-year terms during the winter
meeting of the Trustees in Lexington on Jan.
30. They will join the Board officially at its
spring meeting on May 21.

  

Lemon Miles

Lemon is a partner with the Roanoke law
firm of Martin, Hopkins, Lemon and Carter,
P.C. He received his bachelor of arts degree
from Washington and Lee in 1957, although
he entered with the class of 1955. He then
earned his law degree from W&L in 1959.

After graduating from law school, he
moved to Roanoke where he was employed
by Martin, Martin & Hopkins, the firm that
preceded Lemon’s current firm. He was
made a partner in 1962.

Lemon is a member and past president
of the Roanoke Bar Association and is a
member of the Virginia Bar Association, the
Virginia State Bar, and the American Bar
Association. He has been active in the Boy
Scouts of America and the Second
Presbyterian Church in Roanoke. He is
former president of Specific Reading and
Learning Difficulties Association of
Roanoke, which operates the Shedd Learn-
ing School and Early Learning Center. He
is also owner of Briar Oak Farms, a producer
of organic beef.

Lemon was the founder and president of
Liberty Nursing Homes Inc., a firm that
developed and managed nursing homes in
Virginia and North Carolina.

Miles received his bachelor of arts degree
in economics from Washington and Lee in
1951. He is also a graduate of the Stonier
Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers
University.

18 W&L

 

He began his career in banking as a
management trainee with the First National
Bank of Louisville in 1954. He was executive
vice president of that bank from 1969 to
1972, when he was named president, chief
operating officer, and director. He is current-
ly chairman and chief executive officer of the
First Kentucky National Corporation, the
largest bank holding company in the state.

Long active in civic affairs, Miles has
served on the boards of the Greater
Louisville Fund for the Arts, the Kentucky
Derby Museum, the Kentucky Economic
Development Corporation, the University of
Kentucky College of Business and
Economics Business Partnership Founda-
tion, and Project 2000 Inc.

Miles has also served as a member of the
board of trustees of the University of Ken-
tucky, the board of overseers of the Univer-
sity of Louisville, and the board of directors
of the Kentucky Center for the Arts. He has
been president of the Fund for the Arts and
the Old Kentucky Home Council for the Boy
Scouts of America.

Bezanson new law dean

Randall P. Bezanson, professor of law
at the University of Iowa College of Law,
has been named dean of the Washington and
Lee School of Law.

Bezanson replaces
Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,
who is returning to full-
time teaching and
research at the W&L law
school.

**We are pleased and
gratified that a man of
Professor Bezanson’s
stature and promise will be joining us,’’ said
W&L President John D. Wilson, who
chaired the search committee that chose
Bezanson through a nationwide search.

““We were particularly impressed with his
deeply thoughtful approach to legal educa-
tion and his conviction that it can and should
be improved.”’

Bezanson received both bachelor of
science and bachelor of arts degrees from
Northwestern University in 1968. He received
his juris doctor degree from the University

of Iowa College of Law in 1971. He served
as editor-in-chief of the Jowa Law Review
during his third year in law school.

In 1971-72, Bezanson served as law clerk
to Judge Roger Robb of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia. In
1972-73, he was a law clerk to Justice Harry
A. Blackmun of the U.S. Supreme Court.
Bezanson returned to the University of Iowa
College of Law in 1973 when he joined the
faculty there. He was promoted to full pro-
fessor in 1979.

Bezanson has held several administrative
posts during his tenure at Iowa. Those in-
clude a year as assistant to the president and
five years as vice president for finance and
university services.

A specialist in the field of libel law,
Bezanson has published extensively on that
and other topics. He is the co-author of Libel
and the Press: Myth and Reality. He has
taught courses on constitutional law, com-
munication law, administrative law, law and
technology, and the U.S. Supreme Court.

He is a member of the Order of the Coif,
Beta Alpha Psi, the lowa Bar Association,
and the American Bar Association. He is cur-
rently serving as commissioner on the Na-
tional Conference of Commissioners on
Uniform State Laws.

Alcohol, Drug Awareness Week
features varied programs

Washington and Lee’s second annual
Alcohol and Drug Awareness Week brought
several nationally known speakers to cam-
pus during January in efforts to increase
awareness among students, faculty, and staff
of alcohol and drug abuse.

The first event of the week featured Sam
Rutigliano, former head coach of the
Cleveland Browns. In his presentation,
Rutigliano outlined the program he created
for the professional football team to educate
players and their families about alcohol and
drug abuse.

As part of the week’s activities, Trident,
the organization of undergraduate women,
sponsored a program on women and alcohol,
featuring counselor Anne McThenia.

Later in the week, Bob Lynn, a substance
abuse counselor at Roanoke’s Lewis-Gale

 

Hospital, addressed the problems of adults
who grew up in families where one or both
of the parents had drug or alcohol problems.

The concluding program featured a
speech by Lonise Bias, the mother of basket-
ball star Len Bias of the University of
Maryland, who died from a cocaine
overdose.

Farley wins Pinney Prize

Mark L. Farley, a Washington and Lee
senior from Pittsburgh, has been named the
1988 winner of the Edward L. Pinney Prize
at the University.

Awarded by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee, an organization of students, facul-
ty, and administration, the prize recognizes
extraordinary commitment to both personal
scholarship and the nurturing of intellectual
life at Washington and Lee.

The award is named in memory of the
late Edward Lee Pinney, a professor of
politics at W&L from 1963 until his death
in 1980. It was first presented in 1982.

Farley is an English and biology major.
He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
honorary leadership fraternity, serves as
chairman of the student recruitment commit-
tee and as editor of the Journal of Science,
and is president of the Interfraternity
Council.

 

Dabney Stuart

Stuart poetry book
nominated for Pulitzer

Don’t Look Back, Dabney Stuart’s
recently published book of poetry, has been
nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.

Stuart, professor of English at
Washington and Lee, is on leave in New
Zealand for the 1987-88 academic year with
the support of a Guggenheim Fellowship.

Don’t Look Back is Stuart’s ninth book.
It was published by the Louisiana State
University Press in 1987. In six long poems
that comprise the book, Stuart focuses on

As is its custom, the Alpha Circle of O

micron Delta Kappa ‘‘tapped’’ several honorary initiates

     

in addition to the undergraduate and law school inductees. This year’s honorary initiates were
(from left) G. David Low, ’78, a NASA astronaut based in Houston; John W. Elrod, vice presi-
dent for academic affairs and dean of the College at Washington and Lee; and Stewart Morris,
president and co-chief executive officer of Stewart Information Services Corp. of Houston.

central people and emotions from his past
and integrates them into a search for per-
sonal wholeness in the present. The book has
also been nominated for the Melville Cane
Book Award.

A Richmond native, Stuart joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1965. He
received his bachelor’s degree in English
from Davidson College and his master’s
degree from Harvard. He has been poet-in-
residence at both Trinity College and the
University of Virginia.

In addition to his Guggenheim
Fellowship, Stuart has received grants from
the National Endowment for the
Humanities, the Governor’s Award for the
Arts (Va.), the Dylan Thomas Award from
the Poetry Society of America, the Hopwood
Award from the University of Michigan, and
the Vereen Bell Prize at Davidson College.
His works have appeared in numerous
publications, including The New Yorker,
Southern Poetry Review, The Southern
Review, Modern Language Quarterly,
Poetry, and North American Review.

The Pulitzer Prizes in Journalism, Let-
ters, and Music were endowed by Joseph
Pulitzer (1847-1911) in a bequest to Colum-
bia University and are awarded annually by
the president of that university on recom-
mendation of the Pulitzer Prize Board for
work done during the preceding year.

Founders’ Day celebration
includes ODK initiation

Washington and Lee held its 117th obser-
vance of Founders’ Day with a convocation
on Jan. 19, the birthdate of Robert E. Lee.

W&L President John D. Wilson was the
principal speaker for the event, which was
held in Lee Chapel. Wilson presented a
report on the University in which he called
current efforts to revitalize the fraternity
system ‘‘by far the largest challenge on our
agenda.”’

As part of the annual ceremonies, the
University’s chapter of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, the national leadership fraternity found-
ed at W&L in 1914, tapped 24 law and
undergraduate students into membership on
the basis of their superior leadership
achievements in various aspects of campus
life.

There were also three honorary initiates:

e John W. Elrod, dean of the College at
Washington and Lee;

e G. David Low, ’78, a NASA astronaut
who is currently training as a mission
specialist for a future space shuttle flight;

e Stewart Morris, president and co-chief
executive officer of Stewart Information Ser-
vices Corp. of Houston and a past advisory
director of the National Trust for
Preservation.

W&L 19

 

Foundations award
theatre challenge grants

Washington and Lee has been awarded
challenge grants from The Kresge Founda-
tion of Troy, Mich., and The Christian A.
Johnson Endeavor Foundation of New York
toward construction of the University’s
Center for the Performing Arts.

The Kresge grant is for $600,000 while
the Johnson grant is for $750,000. The cost
of the project is $9 million.

‘“‘These two grants constitute major
stimuli as we move into the final stages of
our fund raising for this important project,”’
said Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson. ‘‘We deeply appreciate that both
The Christian A. Johnson Endeavor Foun-
dation and The Kresge Foundation have of-
fered this help and especially that it has come
in the form of challenges we can use to open
new doors of commitment.’’

The Kresge challenge grant, announced
in February, was one of 34 grants that the
organization has made in 1988. The foun-
dation will continue to make grants
throughout the year. Grants are made
toward projects involving construction or
renovation of facilities and the purchase of
major capital equipment or real estate. Most
grant recipients have raised initial funds
toward their respective projects before re-
questing assistance from Kresge. Grants are
then made on a challenge basis, requiring the
raising of the remaining funds, thereby en-
suring completion of the projects.

The Kresge Foundation is an indepen-
dent, private foundation created by the per-
sonal gifts of Sebastian S. Kresge. It is not
affiliated with any corporation or
organization.

The Johnson challenge is divided into
three parts. The University receives one-third
of the grant once the project reaches the 50
percent point in its funding. In the case of
the Center for the Performing Arts, the cam-
paign passed the halfway mark in early
December when the University received
$250,000 from the Johnson Foundation.

The second third of the grant will be
awarded once the project is 75 percent fund-
ed and the final third will be paid on com-
pletion of the funding.

The Johnson Foundation was founded
by financier Christian A. Johnson in 1952.
A director of the American Natural Gas Co.,
Johnson was interested in education, medical
research, youth development, and
economics.

The Center for the Performing Arts will
be located diagonally across Nelson Street
from the new Gaines Residence Hall and will
be next to Lexington’s old train station.

20 W&L

The facility will include a 425-seat, state-
of-the-art main theatre that will be adaptable
for dramatic and musical performances, an
experimental theatre, dressing rooms, office
space, and a main lobby that will also serve
as a gallery for a portion of the University’s
art collection.

Minority Student Association
boycotts Fancy Dress Ball

Members of Washington and Lee’s
Minority Student Association boycotted the
81st annual Fancy Dress Ball in early March
because they found the ball’s theme
offensive.

Rosalyn Thompson, a junior from
Lynchburg who is president of the MSA, ex-
plained that the group voted to boycott the
event because the theme ‘‘Reconciliation Ball
of 1865’’ represented an era of black
oppression.

“It’s like having a ‘Trail of Tears’ ball
and inviting the Indians,’’ Thompson said,
referring to the forced march of the
Cherokee from the Southeast to Oklahoma
in the 1830s that left thousands of Indians
dead.

In response to the black students’ pro-
test, the ball’s organizers agreed not to
display the Confederate flag or to depict a
Southern plantation among the decorations
and not to encourage students to dress in
Civil War uniforms for the event.

*‘We’re just sorry people interpreted it
the wrong way,’’ said Tom O’Brien, a senior
from Cincinnati who was chairman of the
Student Activities Board’s Fancy Dress com-
mittee. ‘‘It was never meant as an affront.”’

Instead of attending the ball, the boycot-
ting students sponsored a reception at the
Chavis House, the Minority Student Associa-
tion cultural center.

Robert Paxton, ’54, featured
at Phi Beta Kappa convocation

Robert O. Paxton, ’54, professor of
history at Columbia University, delivered the
keynote address at Washington and Lee’s an-
nual Phi Beta Kappa convocation in March.

In his address, titled ‘‘Frogs and Yanks:
French and American Stereotypes of Each
Other,’’ Paxton traced the history of the rela-
tionship between the two nations and the
changing assumptions that the two groups
had about each other.

‘‘Legitimate criticism veers over into
stereotype when a single feature is picked
out, simplified, amplified, and made univer-
sal,’’ Paxton told the Lee Chapel crowd.
**And it becomes stereotyping when the aim
of the game becomes invidious comparison.”’

He concluded, ‘‘We have only our in-
telligence to use as a defense against group
stereotypes. You can never root them all out,
but at least you can train yourself to look
for them, expose them, be aware of them,
and to laugh at them, because they are real-
ly amusing foibles unless they become the ra-
tionale for hatred.’’

A former Rhodes Scholar, Paxton holds
degrees from Oxford University and Harvard
in addition to his undergraduate degree from
Washington and Lee, which also awarded
him an honorary doctor of letters degree in
1974.

He is the author of numerous publica-
tions, including Parades and Politics at
Vichy, Vichy France: Old Guard and New
Order, 1940-44, and Europe in the Twentieth
Century.

During the Phi Beta Kappa convocation,
32 Washington and Lee juniors and seniors
and two recent graduates were initiated into
membership in the national honorary
organization.

 

Robert O. Paxton of Columbia University spoke to the Phi Beta Kappa convocation.

 

 

 

 

Fraternity renaissance
continues to move forward

Washington and Lee has begun a pro-
gram that will result in the physical renova-
tion of its 17 fraternity houses and a spiritual
revitalization of the chapters.

The most recent step in the ongoing ef-
forts occurred in January when the Univer-
sity’s Board of Trustees accepted a recom-
mendation from the Board’s campus life
committee to proceed with the second phase
of the program.

As part of the first phase of the initiative,
the University established a series of stan-
dards that the fraternities must meet. Those
standards encompass not only the behavior
of fraternity members, but the appearance
of individual fraternity houses.

The standards are contained in a docu-
ment, The Washington and Lee University
Standards for Fraternities, that was
developed by the Fraternity House Renova-
tion Steering Committee. The standards
guide was introduced in October at a seminar
sponsored by the Alumni Fraternity Council.

According to the document’s preamble,
the standards are meant ‘‘to give direction
and support to those entities crucial to and
responsible for the vitality of the fraternity
system.’’ Those entities include the Univer-
sity, the national fraternity, the W&L Inter-
fraternity Council, each fraternity’s house
corporation, the local fraternity chapter, and
the chapter house.

The standards are intended ‘‘to make
sure that the fraternities at W&L are pro-
viding a high quality residential experience
in an atmosphere that doesn’t detract from
the academic community and environment,”’
according to Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68,
associate dean of students. ‘‘In fact, the
fraternity atmosphere should add to the
whole community, primarily by providing a
social life in an environment that would be
an asset rather than a detriment to the
reputation of the whole community and to
the whole university.”’

The standards require written guidelines
outlining the rules of each fraternity (in-
cluding policies for the responsible use of
alcohol and the prohibition of illegal drugs
in the houses) and policies for conducting a
responsible new member recruitment pro-
gram that conforms to the Interfraternity
Council’s regulations; conducting a social
program that adheres to the IFC’s regula-
tions; and encouraging academic excellence
and intellectual growth among its members.

Atkins said the standards developed by
the Alumni Fraternity Council are not op-
tional guidelines, but requirements that each
house must meet if it wants to remain a part

of the Washington and Lee fraternity system.

“‘Chapters are expected to maintain ade-
quately the physical appearance of the frater-
nity property and to assure the structural in-
tegrity of chapter houses,’’ the standards
state. ‘“Chapter members are expected to
conform to standards of gentlemanly con-
duct and to exhibit a concern for the rights
and sensibilities of others.’’

Atkins noted that the renovation pro-
gram is ‘‘geared toward putting all of our
fraternity houses in the condition where they
would have another 50 years of useful life
as quality places in which to live.’’

During the first phase of the program,
representatives from VMDO, a Char-
lottesville architectural firm, inspected the
fraternity houses and prepared a feasibility
study based on the needs of each house. That
study, together with the estimated cost of
repairs for each house, was presented to the
Trustees at the Jan. 30 meeting.

In accepting the recommendation to pro-
ceed with the second phase of the program,
the Trustees have appointed a subcommit-
tee, chaired by F. Fox Benton Jr., ’60, of
Houston, that will attempt to identify
various options for financing the renovation
projects. That subcommittee is to submit its
report to the Board at the spring meeting of
the Trustees, scheduled for May 21 in
Lexington.

Whitehead tours India

James W. Whitehead, director of
Washington and Lee’s Reeves Center for
Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and
Paintings, made a two-week lecture tour of
India in February.

Accompanied by Jack W. Warner, ’41,
chairman and chief executive officer of the
Tuscaloosa, Ala.-based Gulf States Paper
Corp. and a trustee emeritus of W&L,
Whitehead visited New Delhi, Calcutta,
Madras, Bombay, and Varanasi.

Whitehead’s lectures were titled
“*Crosscurrents of Commercial Enterprise:
India-America of the Late 18th and Early
19th Centuries’’ and ‘‘Ramdoolal Dey—An
Indian’s Role in American Commercial
History.’’ Both lectures focused on events
during the first years of America’s interna-
tional trade following independence.

Washington and Lee’s immediate con-
nection to India is a portrait of George
Washington, which was given to an Indian
merchant named Ramdoolal Dey in 1801 by
a group of American ship captains and mer-
chants. It remained in India until 1963 when
it was purchased by an American and return-
ed to the United States. In 1980, the portrait
was purchased by Jack Warner and the

Warner Foundation and was given to
Washington and Lee.

At the request of John Gunther Dean, the
U.S. Ambassador to India, the Washington
portrait is currently on loan to the embassy
in New Delhi until the end of this year, when
it will return to its customary place in the
University Library.

Communications Hall of Fame
inducts McDowell, Riegel

Two members of the Washington and
Lee journalism family were inducted into the
Virginia Communications Hall of Fame dur-
ing ceremonies in Richmond on March 31.

Charles McDowell, ’48, the Washington-
based columnist for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, and O. W. (Tom) Riegel, professor
emeritus of journalism, were among those
inducted this year.

      

gait

Riegel McDowell

McDowell and Riegel join two other
W&L graduates—Tom Wolfe, ’51, and
Roger Mudd, ’50—in the Hall of Fame.

McDowell has been with the Times-
Dispatch for 38 years, including 22 as the
newspaper’s Washington correspondent.
Since 1977 he has been a regular panelist on
the Public Broadcasting System’s
“‘Washington Week in Review.’’ His column
is distributed to 280 newspapers by the
Scripps Howard News Service. He is the
author of three books and has been vice
president of the Gridiron Club, an organiza-
tion of Washington reporters and news
executives.

Riegel joined the W&L journalism
department in 1930 after teaching English at
Dartmouth College and working as a
reporter and editorial writer. He became
director of the journalism department in
1934 and continued as full-time professor un-
til 1973. The W&L telecommunications
laboratory is named for him.

In 1934, Riegel wrote Mobilizing for
Chaos: The Story of the New Propaganda.
He worked for U.S. intelligence services dur-
ing World War II and, from 1951 to 1966,
was curator of the Alfred I. duPont Awards
Foundation for Radio, Television, and Allied
Sciences.

W&L 21

 

 

 

Festival of Music Honors Rob Stewart

ome of the country’s most

prominent composers and per-

formers of modern American
music gathered on the Washington
and Lee campus in mid-March to
discuss their art, to perform, and to
pay tribute to one of their own—
W&L’s retiring professor of music
Robert Stewart.

A Festival of New American Music
was sponsored by W&L’s music divi-
sion of the department of fine arts to
honor Stewart, who is widely known
as a composer and whose composi-
tions have been performed by some of
the leading groups in the nation.
Stewart will retire in June after more
than 30 years on the Washington and
Lee faculty.

Though the primary purpose of the
two-day event was to pay tribute to
Stewart’s contributions to modern
American music, W&L professor of
music and festival organizer Gordon
P. Spice explained that the festival
was also designed ‘‘to bring together
musicians and their audiences—not
just in a performance, where they’re
always together, but in dialogue as
well.’’

Participating in the event were the
Annapolis Brass Quintet, the Theater
Chamber Players of Kennedy Center,
the Stradivari String Quartet, and
composers Donald Erb, Jean
Eichelberger Ivey, and Stewart
himself.

During the festival, the musicians
met with students, faculty members,
townspeople, and out-of-town visitors
for open forum discussions on ‘‘The
Role of the Composer Today: Where
to from Here?’’ and ‘‘New Sounds
from Traditional Instruments: How
Far Do We Go?’’

Those forums led to spirited debate
about such far-ranging topics as the
role of big business in the music in-
dustry, the effect of technology on the
music world, and the difference be-
tween art and entertainment.

Intriguing as those discussions
were, the highlight of the festival was
the actual performance of works by
Stewart, Erb, Ivey, and other
composers.

The guest ensembles presented two
evening concerts of contemporary
music, which were characterized not
only by the presence of atonal

  
 
 
   

melodies and irregular rhythms, but
also by such unusual techniques as the
use of a mallet and a soft-drink bottle
to strike the strings of a piano.

Stewart’s own ‘‘Quintet No. 3”’
was even accompanied by a pan-
tomime, which featured student
volunteers playing the roles of musical
instruments.

In addition, the Stradivari String
Quartet performed the world premiere
of Stewart’s newest composition,
‘“‘Quartet No. 5,’’ during the second
evening concert.

At the conclusion of that second
concert, all three of the performing
ensembles crowded onto the Lee
Chapel stage for a rousing finale,
which consisted of brief fanfares that
had been composed in honor of

 

Above, student
mimes perform
with the An-
napolis Brass
Quintet; right,
composers Jean
A | Eichelberger Ivey
a ‘ "8 and Rob Stewart
listen as colleague
Donald Erb
makes a point
during the com-
posers’ sym-
posium of the
Festival of New
American Music.

Stewart. The crowd responded with a
standing ovation—perhaps the only
fitting way to end the two days of
music and discussion.

‘‘In planning this festival, we tried
to come up with a suitable way to
honor Rob Stewart,’’ Spice said. ‘‘It
seemed so appropriate to have an
event of this sort that celebrated not
only his life and work, but that of his
colleagues and friends.

‘“‘It would have been easy for us to
have had a banquet for him and have
given him a gift of some sort. But we
wanted this to be a real happening,
with live performances by musicians
who have long admired what Rob has
accomplished and with lively discus-
sion. And I think we accomplished
that.’’

 

22

W&L

 

 

The Bookshelf

 

Bowen’s Latest Volume Examines Civil War

 

Civil War Days
By John P. Bowen Jr., ’51
(Chartwell Books Inc.)

Civil War Days is a detailed account of
everyday life for civilians on both sides of
the Civil War.

Set against the political background and
leadership situation of the era, the author ex-
amines everything from the patriotic parades
to the suffering caused by the fighting as well
as the daily routines, personal activities, and
boredom of soldiers in camp or on the
march.

The volume includes more than 275
photographs in both color and black and
white. It is the sixth book written by Bowen,
a former newspaper editor.

Political Discourse:

A Case Study of the Watergate Affair
By Lewis H. LaRue, 59

Professor of Law

(University of Georgia Press)

Although nearly 15 years have passed
since President Richard Nixon’s resignation,
the events known collectively as
Watergate—the ‘‘fifth-rate burglary’’ and
White House cover-up, along with the court
battles and congressional hearings that
followed in their wake—remain a powerful
presence in the _ nation’s political
consciousness.

Today, the impact of the Watergate hear-
ings continues to shape public debate and
legislative argument over executive authori-
ty, official corruption, and misuse of power.

In this study of the Watergate affair,
Washington and Lee law professor Lewis H.
LaRue contends that members of Congress
centered their discussions during the hearings
largely on the president’s ‘‘violation of the
law’’ and his threat to ‘‘the rule of law’”’ in-
stead of the more critical issues of govern-
ment ethics, public trust, and democracy
itself that Watergate raised.

LaRue argues that members of Congress
failed in their role as representatives and
misstated the deepest concerns of their con-
Stituents. He proposes that ‘‘breach of
trust,’’ not threat to the ‘‘rule of law,”’

 

Lewis H. LaRue

should have been the focus of the discussion.

The 184-page volume is available in both
hardbound and paperback versions.

LaRue joined the law faculty at
Washington and Lee in 1967 after two years
with the U.S. Department of Justice. He
received his B.A. degree in political science
from W&L in 1959 and his law degree from
Harvard.

The Archaeology of Economic Ideas

By S. Todd Lowry

Professor of Economics and Administration
(Duke University Press)

In his latest work, S. Todd Lowry
demonstrates that by the systematic study of
the classical literature relevant to modern
economic, political, and legal perspectives,
it is possible to assess intelligently the in-
fluence of Greek ideas on modern thinkers.

Although a study of ancient Greek
economic ideas reveals the striking lack of

a concept of the self-regulating market,
which is considered the hallmark of modern
economics, there is no question the Greeks
formulated many abstractions that influence
modern social theory.

The 376-page volume includes sections on
Plato as ‘‘theologian’’ of the administrative
tradition, Aristotle and two-party exchange,
and Xenophon and the administrative art.

Lowry has been a member of the faculty
at Washington and Lee since 1959. He receiv-
ed his B.A. and LL.B. degrees from the
University of Texas and his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from Louisiana State University.

Atanasoff:

Forgotten Father of the Computer
By Clark R. Mollenhoff
Professor of Journalism

(lowa State University Press)

Who invented the electronic digital
computer—the computer from which virtual-
ly all modern computer technology derives?

Was it John V. Atanasoff of Iowa State
University? Or was it John Mauchly of the
University of Pennsylvania (later of the
Sperry-Rand Corporation), credited in
history books for almost 20 years?

The issue was decided in the 1973 Min-
nesota District Court case, Honeywell, Inc.
vs. Sperry Rand Corp. et al. when the court
found in favor of Atanasoff.

In Atanasoff: Forgotten Father of the
Computer, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist
Clark Mollenhoff offers the first complete
story of the invention of the electronic digital
computer and the curious tale of its long-
silent inventory—including the mysterious
death of Clifford Berry, who helped
Atanasoff build his machine, soon after
Berry had documented creation of the device
for a book on computer history.

Using records of the trial, interviews with
the participants, and his personal acquain-
tance with the parties involved, Mollenhoff
clarifies and examines the 23 years of events
leading to the 1973 Minnesota ruling as well
as the aftermath of Atanasoff’s rightful
recognition.

The 280-page volume is scheduled to be
released in May.

W&L 23

Generals’ Report

 

Women’s Swim Team Captures ODAC Title

 

By Mark Mandel

 

Teammates
cheer on the
W&L women,
including
triple winner
Elizabeth
Miles, during
their ODAC
triumph.

 

24 W&L

 

he Washington and Lee women’s

swimming team became the Univer-

sity’s first women’s team to win an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship.

Concluding its third year in existence, the
W&L contingent compiled 620.5 points to
finish ahead of perennial champion Sweet
Briar, which had 580.5 points.

‘*t am extremely proud of this team,’’
said aquatics coach Page Remillard. ‘‘We
have come a long way from our humble
beginning in 1985 when we had just a hand-
ful of women swimmers. We achieved almost
everything we were striving for this year, and
it is particularly noteworthy that every swim-
mer beat her previous lifetime best perfor-
mance during the season.’’

Two W&L women—junior Elizabeth
Miles of Louisville and freshman Sharon
Coleman of Stone Mountain, Ga.—qualified
for the NCAA Division III Championships,
which were held in Atlanta in mid-March.

Miles was named the ODAC Swimmer of
the Year after she won the 200-yard freestyle
in 2:00.7, the 500-yard freestyle in 5:20.6,
and the 1650-freestyle in 18:19.9.

The W&L men’s swimming team record-
ed its fifth straight winning record (6-3) and
won the first annual Atlantic States Cham-
pionship by scoring 447 points to beat teams
from Glassboro (316) and Mary Washington
(181).

As has been the case in the past several
years, the W&L men were well represented
in the NCAA Division III] Championship
with five individuals and four relay teams
competing in the national meet.

The individual NCAA Qualifiers were
juniors Jeff Bercaw of Morristown, N.J.,
and Moose Herring of Boone, N.C.; and
sophomores Shawn Copeland of Charleston,
W.Va., Adam Morgan of Upperco, Md.,
and David Olson of Fairfax Station, Va.

‘*We had a long and arduous season,”’
said Remillard, who was named Atlantic
States Coach of the Year. ‘‘But the hard
work paid off in strong late-season perfor-
mances.’’

Indoor Track and Field

Washington and Lee track coach Norris
Aldridge has built a winning program that
rivals any in the region. That became evident

 

    

* a Be ilies Aa
ae
“a adage

Freshman Carl Gilbert wins the ODA C long jump.

again this winter when he directed the
Generals to their fifth straight ODAC indoor
championship.

W&L scored 165 points—the highest
number ever recorded in the meet—to
second-place Lynchburg’s 122. Bridgewater
was third with 70 followed by Roanoke (39)
and Emory & Henry (23).

The Generals won seven of the 14 events
and, as usual, had a large number of
finishers in second through sixth place. ‘‘I
give all the credit to the athletes,’’ said
Aldridge, who was named Coach of the Year
for the fifth straight time. ‘‘It was just
another outstanding team effort.’’

Senior Andy White of Winchester, Va.,
won three events and was selected the ODAC
Runner of the Year for the third time. He
won the 55-meter hurdles in a conference
record time of 7.7 seconds and the 400-meter
dash (52.6), and he ran a leg on W&L’s win-
ning 400-meter relay team (44.9).

The Generals’ other winners were
sophomore Wes Boyd of Dallas in the
55-meter dash (6.6 seconds); junior Jamie
Urso of Pittsburgh in the 800-meter run
(1:59.7); sophomore Phillip Sampson of
Houston in the pole vault (ODAC record
14-6); and freshman Carl Gilbert of Bassett,
Va., in the long jump (21-2).

Basketball

Washington and Lee’s basketball team,
which seemed to have everything going its
way in January, ended its 1987-88 season in
disappointment.

The Generals built an impressive 15-3
record heading into February but dropped
seven of their last eight games to finish with
a 16-10 mark.

*‘February was a particularly cruel
month,’’ said basketball coach Verne Can-
field. ‘‘Somewhere along the way we lost our
ability to win. Considering our early-season
success, the year ended in frustration.”’

Not only did W&L have trouble winning
games down the stretch, but the Generals
couldn’t even win a crucial coin flip. When
W&L and rival Roanoke finished their con-
ference schedules in a tie (7-7 records) for
fourth place, a coin flip was required to
determine which team would keep the fourth
seed in the ODAC tournament and, with that
seed, the all-important home site in the
quarterfinal round.

WA&L lost the coin flip and the home site,
but the Generals battled the Maroons to the
wire before losing the quarterfinal game,
83-81, in Salem, Va.

Despite the disappointing finish, there
were many highlights to the season. Among

them were W&L’s 20th winning season in the
last 22 years and the consistent play of senior
Steve Hancock of Springfield, Va., who
earned All-ODAC and All-South Atlantic
honors. Hancock finished his career with
1,215 points, 12th on the University’s all-
time list.

Wrestling

The wrestling team finished with a 5-9
record, the first losing season in the last seven
years.

‘“‘It was a frustrating year, because we
just could not seem to put together a strong
lineup,’’ said wrestling coach Gary Franke.
‘We did have some outstanding individual
performances but not enough to make us a
consistent winner.’”’

The most outstanding performances
came from senior Steve Castle of New Ca-
naan, Conn., who had a 21-6-1 record at 118
pounds; senior John Lowe of Wittman, Md.,
who was 15-5 at 134 pounds; and sophomore
Lee Garlove of Louisville, who was 16-6-1
at 142 pounds.

 

 

Winter
Sports
Scoreboard

Women’s Swimming (3-6)
Ist W&L Invitational
Sweet Briar 145, W&L 97
W&L 106, Mary Baldwin 56
W&L 104, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 70
Georgetown 129, W&L 75
Johns Hopkins 98, W&L 78
Shepherd 63, W&L 30
Gettysburg 98, W&L 57
W&L 91, Hollins 61
Mary Washington 101, W&L 80
Ist ODAC Championships
6th NCAA Regional

Wrestling (5-9)
W. Maryland 28, W&L 20
W&L 30, Lebanon Valley 13
Lycoming 42, W&L 3
Kings 28, W&L 17
2nd in W&L Invitational
Virginia Tech 27, W&L 14
W&L 59, Ferrum 0
Virginia State 31, W&L 14
Norfolk State 24, W&L 18
Virginia State 27, W&L 24
Washington and Jefferson 38, W&L 9
W&L 45, Gallaudet 10
Longwood 36, W&L 8
W&L 38, Davidson 13
W&L 30, Furman 23

Basketball (16-10)
W&L 108, Wesley 71
W&L 86, Sewanee 68
W&L 92, Emory 83
W&L 87, Hampden-Sydney 85
W&L 102, Greensboro 90
W&L 92, Lynchburg 64
Bridgewater 74, W&L 68
W&L 82, Buffalo State 68
W&L 115, N.Y. Maritime 48
W&L 94, Salisbury St. 82
W&L 76, Mt. St. Mary 71
W&L 82, Roanoke 72
Emory & Henry 79, W&L 69
W&L 83, Eastern Mennonite 80
W&L 71, Bridgewater 67
Maryville 91, W&L 78
W&L 91, Hampden-Sydney 87
W&L 96, Lynchburg 63
Averett 84, W&L 74
Emory & Henry 89, W&L 80
W&L 92, Emory 80
Mary Washington 86, W&L 73
Roanoke 85, W&L 76
Eastern Mennonite 74, W&L 73
Maryville 98, W&L 75
Roanoke 83, W&L 81*
*ODAC Tournament

Men’s Swimming (6-2)
W&L 133, VMI 88
W&L 118, Georgetown 88
Shippensburg 100, W&L 75
W&L 97, Johns Hopkins 86
W&L 56, Shepherd 39
W&L 94, Gettysburg 54
William & Mary 118, W&L 98
W&L 72, Mary Washington 68
Ist Atlantic States
4th NCAA Regional

 

 

W&L 25

Alumni News

 

Birthday Celebrations Spice Winter Meetings

 

he birthdays of George Washington

and Robert E. Lee prompted a

number of Washington and Lee’s
alumni chapters to plan banquets, luncheons,
and various other celebrations during
January and February.

Carrying on the tradition begun by the
Atlanta Chapter, the Louisville, Jackson-
ville, Mid-South, Rockbridge, Keystone, and
Washington, D.C., chapters met during
January in celebration of Gen. Lee’s
birthday.

The Atlanta Chapter had a crowd of 290
in attendance for its Lee party while the
highlight of the Rockbridge event was a
presentation by Mary P. Coulling, author of
The Lee Girls.

Meantime, Gen. Washington was the
subject of gatherings held by the New
England and Philadelphia chapters at which
James W. Whitehead, director of W&L’s
Reeves Center for the Study and Exhibition
of Porcelain and Paintings, was the featured
speaker.

And the Pittsburgh and Winston-Salem
chapters decided not to favor either of the
University’s namesakes but held events in
late February to honor both of the famous
generals.

Other chapter news

Two groups of Washington and Lee
students took advantage of the Washington
Holiday break to travel to a warmer climate
and meet with alumni chapters throughout
the Southeast.

Southern Comfort, Washington and
Lee’s 13-member singing ensemble, con-
tinued its tradition of making a tour of
chapters in a particular geographic area. This
time, Southern Comfort entertained the
Eastern North Carolina, Charlotte, Hilton
Head, Charleston, South Carolina Pied-
mont, Tallahassee, Palmetto, and Florida
West Coast chapters.

In addition to singing for the chapter
meetings at the various stops, the Southern
Comfort members paid a visit to the
Shriners’ Hospital for Crippled Children in
Greenville, S.C.

More than 50 alumni and parents of cur-
rent students opened their homes to the
singers during the 2,300-mile tour.

26 W&L

 

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—During its Washington Holiday tour of alumni chapters, Southern

 

Pal

Comfort took time out from entertaining alumni to perform at the Shriners’ Hospital for Crippled
Children. Here they are shown entertaining nurses at the facility.

 

      

EL PASO—Alumni participating in the meeting of the El Paso Chapter included (seated from left)

  

 

Rut Lilly, ’59; Skip Forsyth, ’78; Dick Ranc, ’61; and Pete Carter, ’53; (standing from left) John March,

‘63; Shark Smith, ’84; and Mark Mendel, ’78.

Before it embarked on the vacation tour,
Southern Comfort joined the University
Chorus on a trip to entertain the Richmond
Chapter.

When alumni weren’t being entertained
by student musicians, they were cheering on
W&L’s student-athletes. In this case, the
Generals’ varsity lacrosse team spent the
mid-winter break by training in Florida.

While in the Sunshine State, the team
members were entertained at a barbecue
sponsored by the Central Florida Chapter.
A few days later, the Jacksonville Chapter
cheered the team on in an exhibition game
against the Jacksonville Lacrosse Club at the
Bolles School. The Generals made the event
a success with an 18-6 win.

After completing spring training in

 

 

TUCSON—Marilyn and Chuck Sherman, ’57, pose outside the Cafe Terra
Cotta with the restaurant’s owner, Don Luria, ’57.

TALLAHASSEE—Renewing acquaintance at a meeting of the Tallahassee
Chapter were (from left) Murray Wadsworth, ’59; Max Caskie, ’58; Calvin

Curry, 56; and Duby Ausley, ’59.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—On hand to hear Southern Comfort’s
performance in Raleigh were (from left) Bob Womble, ’79L; Lynn Wom-
ble; and Greg Crampton, ’69, chapter president.

Florida, the Generals played their annual ex-
hibition game against the Mount Washington
Club in Baltimore. The results were less suc-
cessful than in Florida since W&L lost 12-7.
But prior to the game the 40-member team
and the coaches were guests at a Baltimore
Chapter brunch.

Aside from celebrating the Lee and
Washington holidays, the Pittsburgh
Chapter came up with a novel way to stay
in touch with the University. Back in
December as students entered final exams,

 

| \

CHARLOTTE—Participants in the Charlotte

   

¥ BY yin a

 

meeting were (from left)

William Clark, ’82, the chapter president; Alex McAlister, 82; Mark Kel-
ly, °86L; and Angus McBryde, ’84.

 

-

HILTON HEAD—Enjoying the evening with the Hilton Head Chapter
were (from left) Mary Jane Redenbaugh; Harry Redenbaugh, ’39; Mar-

Jorie Sweeney; and Bob Sweeney, 41.

 

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—Included among the alumni who turned
out in Raleigh for a Southern Comfort appearance were Tudor Hall, ’60,

and his daughter, Alicia Hall, who attended the University during 1985-86.

the Pittsburgh alumni prepared and sent
‘‘care packages’’ to the six freshmen from
the Pittsburgh area in efforts to ease the
burden of the students’ first college exams.

Dick Sessoms, director of alumni pro-
grams, made a week-long Western swing in
January. Sessoms spoke to meetings of the
New Mexico, Tucson, Phoenix, El Paso, and
West Texas chapters.

Members of the St. Louis Chapter at-
tended an Old Dominion party in early
January while the New York Chapter held

its annual luncheon and the New Orleans
Chapter had a business meeting.

New chapter presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:

Atlanta—Randolph L. Hutto, ’70;

Connecticut River Valley—Art Fern, ’55;

New Orleans—Covert J. Geary, ’80;

Northwest Louisiana— Donald W. Weir
Jr., °72;

Palmetto—John C. Hamilton, ’80.)

W&L 27

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$170.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

28

W&L

1918

James L. Howe Jr. says he and his wife, Bee, are
thriving in retirement in the beautiful Shenandoah

Valley.
1921

James L. Howe Jr. (See 1918).

1923

Weldon T. Kilmon and his wife, Suzanne, are en-
joying the friendly family of more than 300 retirees
at Edenwald, an 18-story community in Towson,
Md.

D. R. (Toad) Snively has sold his farm,
“‘Delamere,’’ near Boonsboro, Md., and has mov-
ed back to Hagerstown, where he works in real
estate. He had spent 33 years with The Hagerstown
Leather Co. and with W. D. Byron & Sons, a tan-
ning company in Williamsport.

1925

Dr. Calvin T. Burton retired in 1986 after 58 years
of practicing medicine. He is living at R.W.C., a
retirement home in Irvington, Va.

Dr. Herbert Pollack is retired as a consultant to
the State Department but continues to consult for
the communications industry in the area of health
effects from exposure to microwaves. He lives in

Palm Beach, Fla.
1926

Dr. James N. Williams is retired in Virginia Beach
after 55 years of practicing medicine.

1927

C. W. Clark Poole, a retired executive of Potomac
Electric Power Co., is enjoying life on the western
shore of the Chesapeake Bay in Calvert County,
Md. He spends his winters in Fort Myers Beach,

Fla.
1929

A. Lowe Lunsford, a resident of Brookneal, Va.,
for 81 years, is retired from operating Lunsford
Farm Supply, a distributor of seed, feed, hay, and
hardware.

Allen B. Morgan retired Dec. 31, 1987, from First
Tennessee Bank in Memphis. He had worked at
the bank since graduating from W&L and served
as president and most recently as honorary chair-
man of the board.

Francis T. Parker Jr. is still interested in land in
Mobile, Ala., and Pascagoula, Miss. He lives in
Gulfport, Fla.

Robert W. Pharr and his wife, Anita, spend their
winters in St. Petersburg, their summers cruising
Pickwick Lake, and the rest of their time at home
in Germantown, Tenn., or visiting grandchildren
in Roanoke, Memphis, and San Diego.

Vernon R. Preston has sold his insurance agency
and now has more time for traveling. He is still
active in his church and with the local Rotary Club
and Mason’s Order in Paoli, Pa.

Arthur D. Simmons returned to his native
Massachusetts in November for the first time in
12 years. He slept under his Washington and Lee
monogram blanket that he won after four years
on the track team, when he ran the quarter mile
and mile relay under Coach Forest Fletcher. Sim-
mons lives in Boynton Beach, Fla.

 

1931

Eugene Johnson and his wife, Anne, took a trip
to Europe last summer and visited Holland, Ger-
many, Switzerland, France, and England. They
live in Waynesboro, Va.

Beverly J. Lambert Jr., retired commissioner of
Arkansas State Bank, lives with his wife, Moka,
in Presbyterian Village, a retirement center in Little
Rock.

Morton P. Levy celebrated 50 years of married life
with his wife, Alma, on Nov. 7, 1987. Levy is
chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals for the
city of Portsmouth, Va., where he also serves on
the Meals on Wheels board.

James C. Rash and his wife, Alma, are taking ad-
vantage of good health by traveling and keeping
active in Troy, Ohio. The couple married in 1981
after losing their original mates to cancer.

Dr. William V. Rucker, retired from nearly 50
years of medical practice in Bedford, Va., enjoys
hunting, fishing, and golfing.

Stanley D. Waxberg is counsel to Kaye, Scholer,
Fierman, Hays & Handler, attorneys in New York

City.
1932

Charles E. Duncan is retired in his hometown of
Vero Beach, Fla., where he plays golf and par-
ticipates in general community activities.

James S. Pollak is finishing his new book, The
Jubilant Delinquent, which contains a chapter
about his days at W&L. He lives in Sherman Oaks,
Calif.

Dr. Jack J. Stark, who is retired from 50 years
of practicing medicine, recently stepped down after
22 years on the board of trustees and as a member
of the medical staff’s executive committee at
Camden Clark Memorial Hospital in Clarksburg,
W.Va. He is now enjoying gardening, golf, relax-
ation at his home in Vienna, and visits with his
grandchildren.

Sherwood W. Wise recently compiled the 103-year
history of his law firm, Wise, Carter, Child &
Caraway, in Jackson, Miss. He continues to serve
as counsel to the firm. He and his wife, Elizabeth,
celebrated their golden anniversary on July 28,

1987.
1933

Edwin W. Chittum, a retired school superinten-
dent, continues to serve as a director of First
Virginia Bank and several foundations. He lives
in Chesapeake with Sue, his wife of 53 years, and
enjoys golf as often as possible.

Eugene Johnson (See 1931).

Dr. Alvin Bubbie Ortner is retired from the prac-
tice of surgery and from teaching as clinical pro-
fessor of surgery. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

1934

Holmes M. Dyer spends his winters in Sarasota,
Fla., and his summers in Marion, Mass. He en-
joys swimming, tennis, and boating.

M. Alexander Jones retired Oct. 1, 1987, from
Lorraine F. Jones & Son in St. Louis.

Sherwood W. Wise (See 1932).

1935

Norman S. Fitzhugh Jr. has had a quiet year with
one short trip to Nova Scotia, Prince Edward
Island, and New Brunswick. He lives in
Charleston, W.Va.

James M. Franklin stays active in Palm Harbor,
Fla., with his condo association programs, church

work, and the Cub and Boy Scout units of his
church. He and his wife, Margaret, recently cruised
to Acapulco and then San Juan via the Panama
Canal.

John E. Friend of Washington, N.C., is president
of the Washington Yacht and City Club. He plays
golf with a 12 handicap.

Dr. Sidney Lyons, a retired family doctor and
obstetrician, is enjoying biking, golf, exercise
classes, volunteering, and Elderhostels. He lives
in Arlington, Va.

Augustus Morgan delivers meals for Metropolitan
Interfaith Association in Memphis, Tenn.

George E. Short of Pompton Lakes, N.J., stays
busy with golf, gardening, hunting, and church
work.

Donald R. Wallis took a study trip to China last
fall. He lives in Madison, Ind., and continues to
publish one daily newspaper and four weeklies.

1936

Joseph J. Harding, a developer of shopping
centers, apartments, and mobile home parks for
more than 30 years, is completing the College
Square Shopping Center in Lexington, Va. He lives
in Millboro, Va.

Walter T. Lawton recently completed five years
of training as a psychoanalytic psychotherapist at
the Westchester Institute for Psychoanalytic Train-
ing. He is a clergyman of the Westchester Ethical
Humanist Society and lives in Teaneck, N.J.

Ralph H. Smith is retired but consults for in-
surance companies. He is town crier for the Village
of Mariemont in Cincinnati.

1937

Lewis D. Williams of Gainesville, Fla., donned
academic garb on Nov. 6, 1987, as a representative
of W&L at the inauguration of Robert Edmund
Lee, 41, as president of Stetson University in

DeLand, Fla.
1938

Dr. Chester Schept, a retired dentist, is a volunteer
for Cerebral Palsy of Queens County in New York.
He has been traveling, taking courses, visiting
museums, and sightseeing in New York City. He
and his wife, Sophie, also enjoy visits with their
two children and five grandchildren.

Ernest B. Walker Jr. has sold his Louisville, Ky..,
company, Ernest Walker Press, but keeps busy
with various activities. He is a member of the ad-
visory board of the Salvation Army, a member of
the board of the Second Church of Christ, Scien-
tist, and a substitute soloist at two churches. He
also paints in watercolor and oils.

Lauren D. Wild teaches at Central Piedmont Com-
munity College in Charlotte and in an appren-
ticeship program of Meredith/Burda Corp. in
Newton, N.C. His classes include ‘‘Paper and
Ink,”’ ‘‘Printing Sales,”’ and ‘‘Printing Estimating,
Color, and Color Reproduction.’’

1939

Fred G. Francis has retired as a partner of the
Prestonsburg, Ky., law firm of Francis, Kazee &
Francis. He now lives in Sarasota, Fla.

Robert W. Hilton Jr. entered a partnership on Jan.
1, 1988, with Mary Jane Hery for the practice of
law under the firm name of Hilton & Hery in
Cincinnati.

George C. Kerr, an elder at Toms River
Presbyterian Church in New Jersey, is in charge
of stewardship and recently concluded a campaign
that raised $750,000. He and his wife, Florence,

will be moving to a retirement apartment near Lan-
caster, Pa., sometime this year.

Alfred R. Kreimer and his wife, Rossie, are in their
seventh year with a bed-and-breakfast enterprise
near St. George, Australia. Their farm comprises
several thousand acres, which are sharefarmed by
their son-in-law. The main cash crops are irrigated
cotton and wheat.

W. Bryce Rea Jr. practices law in Washington,
D.C., with the firm of Rea, Cross & Auchincloss.

Donald C. Smith is retired from United
Technologies Corp. in Summerfield, Fla. He keeps
busy with hobbies, investments, reading, and
visiting his children and grandchildren during the
summer months.

Edgar L. Smith practices law in Lewisburg,
W.Va., and is a candidate for re-election to the
office of prosecuting attorney of Greenbrier Coun-
ty. He previously served in the office from March
1950 to December 1976.

George H. Vanta has spent eight years of retire-
ment traveling to New Zealand, Australia, Great
Britain, Alaska, Mexico, Canada, and throughout
much of the United States. He has three married
children and two grandchildren and lives in
Decatur, Ga.

Lewis D. Williams (See 1937).

1940

Dr. Frank S. Beazlie Jr. is two years into retire-
ment from the practice of urology. He is a golf
museum curator in Newport News, Va., and leads
golf tours to various countries.

Charles M. Landrum Jr. has retired from the law
firm of Landrum, Shouse & Patterson, which has
offices in Lexington and Louisville, Ky. He retired
as Kentucky’s last circuit riding trial lawyer.

L. C. (Lew) Lewis is a consulting forester in Lin-

coln, Va.
1941

F. S. Kirkpatrick and his wife, Jeanne, have moved
to Walnut Creek, Calif., after 36 years in New
Jersey.

Dr. James F. Norton is practicing medicine in East
Aurora, N.Y.

W. Bryce Rea Jr. (See 1939).

Bertram R. Schewel, a furniture business executive
in Lynchburg, Va., was honored in November with
the Torch of Liberty Award from the Anti-
Defamation League of B’nai B’rith. He is the first
Virginian to be so recognized.

1942

Charles M. Landrum Jr. (See 1940).

W. L. (Lee) Monroe stays busy in the political
arena since his wife, Thelma, is mayor of
Millsboro, Del., and president of the Sussex Coun-
ty Association of Towns.

Robert W. Root recently completed a three-week
walking tour in New Zealand. He is retired from
the civil service and lives in Silver Spring, Md.

1943

Richard J. Bromley has lunch every Tuesday with
classmate Robert B. Brainard Jr. at the Mid-
dletown, Conn., Rotary Club meeting. Bromley
and his wife, Dot, traveled for nine weeks last year
to Hawaii, Alaska, the Canadian Rockies, Ireland,
and Scotland.

Joseph E. Lee is active in his local chapter of
SCORE, enjoys tennis and golf, and splits his time
between Minneapolis and Florida.

Alexander M. Maish works four-hour days at

W&L 29

 

Systems Research and Applications Corp. in Arl-
ington, Va., where he is a senior member of the
production staff, designing computer systems to
be used by military headquarters.

William J. Noonan Jr. is active as chairman of
the Pensacola (Fla.) Recreation Board, a member
of the board of trustees of Pensacola Junior Col-
lege, an elder at his Presbyterian church, and a
member of the board of directors for Columbia
Theological Seminary and Southeast Bank of West
Florida.

Philip A. Sellers, an overseer for Sweet Briar Col-
lege since 1986, has been elected to the college’s
board of directors. He is president of Philip A.
Sellers & Co. Inc. in Montgomery, Ala. His wife,
Caroline, and daughters, Susan and Ellen, are
alumnae of Sweet Briar.

1944

Robbins L. Gates retired in May 1987 as professor
emeritus of political science at Mary Baldwin Col-
lege. He and his wife, Carol, are active in local
theatre in Staunton.

J. N. (Jack) McCormick retired in September as
senior vice president and head of the mid-Atlantic
regional office for Drake Beam Morin Inc., a
management consulting company in Washington,
D.C. He and his wife, Marilyn, have built their
‘‘dream home’’ on a ridge overlooking the Blue
Ridge Mountains in northern Virginia.

1945

O. Thomas Kaylor Jr. is practicing law at Kaylor,
Poole & Wantz in Hagerstown, Md., and relax-
ing when he can in Hilton Head, S.C.

John H. Sorrells plans to retire in July as director
of Educational Services/Newspaper in Education
at The Commercial Appeal in Memphis, Tenn. He
and his wife, Mary, have three children and seven
grandchildren.

Collier Wenderoth Jr. has no plans to retire as
chairman of the board of O. K. Industries Inc. in
Fort Smith, Ark. He enjoys golf and his 425 Con-
quest I, which he flew to Europe two summers ago.
He and his wife, Nancy, have 10 grandchildren.

1946

C. Barry Tome retired from Amoco Corp. in 1982
and moved from Chicago back to Delaware. He
found it hard to sit still, however, so he became
vice president and general manager of Brandywine

Financial Corp.
1948

Nate L. Adams II retired for the second time in
January as vice president of Riteco Development
Corp. in Vero Beach, Fla. The first time Adams
retired he was vice president of Atlantic Ridge
Corp., a Miami investments company.

Leslie F. James is controller for Singeltary Con-
crete Products Inc. in Florida. He lives in

Bradenton.

1949
MARRIAGE: Kenneth H. Wacker and Gisela
Krushe on June 27, 1987. The couple lives in Hobe
Sound, Fla. Wacker is retired from the govern-
ment products division of Pratt & Whitney in West
Palm Beach.

Jack S. Callicott, local sales manager for WMC-
TV in Memphis, Tenn., still finds time to play ten-
nis twice a week—plus a little golf now and then.

Ben E. Grimm, retired director of the Jersey City
(N.J.) Public Library, is currently active as a
library building consultant and beach comber in
Puerta Plata in the Dominican Republic.

30 W&L

 

The entire Quito, Ecuador, Alumni
Chapter (ad hoc) held its only annual lun-
cheon meeting on May 14, 1987, at the
swank ‘‘E] Pub’’ restaurant in Quito, ac-
cording to a dispatch filed by chapter
secretary and historian E. A. Leonard,
63.

The club’s members, Leonard and
Len Hough, °56, owner of ‘‘El Pub,’’
were joined at the meeting by a special
guest speaker, Bob Fraser, a 1956
graduate of VMI and the U.S. Embassy
commercial attache.

During a brief business meeting prior
to Fraser’s rambling speech titled ‘‘The
Do’s and Don’t’s and Politico-Military
Implications of International Business
Transactions Between East Lexington and
Southwest Quito,’’ the club adopted
several resolutions.

These included the designation of ‘‘E]
Pub’’ as the only official W&L watering
hole in all of Quito.

In addition, the club voted Francisco
Kozhaya, 63, as present ‘‘in spirits’’ at
the meeting. Kozhaya, industrial leader
of the city of Guayaquil, is the only other
known W&L alumnus resident in
Ecuador.

And finally, Quito archaeologist Leon
Doyon, the son of W&L (art) Professor

 

Quito, Ecuador, newest alumni chapter

—

 

Quito, Ecuador, alumni (from left) Andy
Leonard, 63; Bob Fraser, VMI ’56; and
Len Hough, ’56.

and Mrs. Gerard Doyon and also a
patron of ‘‘El Pub,”’ was granted adjunct
membership in the W&L Quito Club
despite his academic affiliations with
Tulane and Yale.

Since filing his report on the Quito
meeting, Leonard has returned to Lex-
ington for a brief stay between
assignments.

 

 

Thomas S. Hook Jr. is retired from a career in
public affairs with the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration in Washington, D.C., and now lives
in Baltimore where he is president of Tall Cedars
Band and is an officer (alternate key man) with
the Baltimore Hangar of Quiet Birdmen.

O. Thomas Kaylor Jr. (See 1945).

William E. Latture was honored in 1987 with the
Silver Beaver Award from the General Greene
Council of the Boy Scouts. He was chairman of
the board of trustees of the Greensboro (N.C.)
Historical Museum in 1987 and is now chairman
of the trustees for Christ United Methodist
Church. He is also in his second term as president
of Inlet Point Homeowners Association in Litch-
field Beach, S.C.

John S. R. Schoenfeld, president of InterVest Ltd.,
has been joined in his business by his son, Richard
H. Schoenfeld, ’80. The Bethesda, Md., company
now Offers financial counseling in addition to cor-
porate financing and merger/acquisition work.

1950

Gerard A. Burchell Jr. is teaching biology at
Spaulding High School in Rochester, N.H. He
hopes to retire in three years.

F. A. (Bud) Hare has retired from Little League
baseball coaching in Tuckahoe, a Richmond
suburb, after 25 seasons. He is probation ad-
ministrator for the Richmond Juvenile Court and
president of the Virginia Correctional Association.

F. A. (Shorty) Murray, vice president of Starway
Records Inc. in McLean, Va., has announced that
Starway released its first U.S. recording in
December, Patti Day’s ‘‘Private Property.”’

1951

George F. Arata Jr. is senior vice president with
Southeast First National Bank of Miami. He is
responsible for business development at the main
office in Palm Beach and at the Sunrise Avenue
branch. He is a director of the St. Lucie County
United Way and a member of the Chamber of
Commerce, the Rotary Club, and the University
of Florida Cooperative Extension Advisory
Committee.

William L. Davidson, after 15 years in the logistics
department at Hughes Aircraft, ‘‘retired’’—and
immediately accepted an offer to be an operations
analyst at Lockheed in Burbank, Calif.

Samuel B. Hollis, chairman and president of
Federal Compress and Warehouse Co. in Mem-
phis, Tenn., is serving a term as West Tennessee
vice president of the Tennessee Business

Roundtable.
1952

Raymond W. Haman is chairman of the
Washington State Statute Law Committee. The
committee serves as the governing board for the
Office of Code Reviser, which provides confiden-
tial bill drafting services for legislators and com-
piles and publishes the Revised Code of

 

Washington, Washington Administrative Code,
and other official state publications. Haman is an
attorney in Seattle.

Lester E. Zittrain is a member of the board of
governors of the Allegheny County Bar Associa-
tion in Pittsburgh. He is past chairman of the
association’s civil litigation section and judiciary

committee.
1953

C. Craighead Fritsche is manager of proposal ser-
vices in the Melpar Division at E-System Inc. in
Falls Church, Va. The defense contractor is a For-
tune 500 company.

Jay W. Jackson has left his 11-year position as
legal counsel to two Connecticut governors and
has returned to private practice with the Hartford
law firm of Jackson, O’Keefe & Dunn.

Robert J. Maccubbin is chairman of the board of
Rogers-American Co., food brokers serving North
and South Carolina. He lives in Charlotte.

Spencer T. Snedecor Jr. and his family have
bought an Ace Hardware Store in Buford, Ga.,
about 30 miles northeast of Atlanta. The business
is a family affair: Snedecor’s son and wife, Jean,
run the store on a daily basis, and Snedecor works
on weekends and helps with the financial decisions.
During the week, he sells advertising for Bell South
Advertising and Publishing.

Rodney F. Stock Jr. is serving a six-year term as
proctor of the Grand Council of the E Clampus
Vitus Society, a 145-year-old fraternal group of
miners and historians with 250,000 members in
western states. Stock is also on the Citizens
Neighborhood Advisory Group to the Reno, Nev.,

police department.
1954

James C. Conner is practicing law with the firm
of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand
in Washington, D.C.

Norman L. Dobyns is retired as public affairs vice
president at Northern Telecom Inc. He continues
to serve the Washington, D.C., company as an ex-
ecutive consultant, assisting with legislative,
regulatory, procurement, and international trade
functions.

Dirken T. Voelker (See Dow T. Voelker, 84).

Frank M. Whiting is a volunteer mediator for the
Sarasota (Fla.) County Court and the Citizens
Dispute Settlement Program for Sarasota Coun-
ty and is a volunteer in the IRS VITA program.
He belongs to an association of retired attorneys
and is active in the Venice-Nokomis Rotary Club.

1955

Jay W. Jackson (See 1953).

1956
D. D. (Bud) Flanders is a member of the board
of governors of the American Academy of
Matrimonial Lawyers. He practices privately in
New Orleans.

William B. Northrop received the G. Richard Dew
Award for excellence in journalism. Pennsylvania
Gov. Robert Casey and Doreen Dew, widow of
the former director of the Pennsylvania Newspaper
Publishers Association, presented the award to
Northrop in September.

1957

J. M. (Boz) Boswell, director of operations for The
Kroger Co. in North Little Rock, Ark., has two
sons, J. Marshall Boswell Jr., ’88, and Robert
Brooks Boswell, ’91, at the University. During his
visit for W&L’s Parents’ Weekend in November,

Boswell saw classmates G. Russell Ladd III and
Jeb J. Rosebrook for the first time since 1957.

Lewis S. Minter became solicitor general for the
legal department of Virginia’s State Corporation
Commission on Feb. 1. General counsel since
1980, Minter is now responsible for drafting orders
and opinions and for providing independent legal
and administrative advice. He lives in Richmond.

1958

J. E. (Buck) Chapoton is managing partner of the
Washington, D.C., office of Vinson & Elkins, a
Houston-based law firm.

1959

Robert E. Shepherd Jr., a professor of law at the
University of Richmond, taught in the university’s
summer program at Emmanuel College, Cam-
bridge University in the summer of 1987.

1960

J. J. (Sack) Barnes is chairman of the board of
Community Title Co., a title insurance agency with
14 offices in the St. Louis area.

Richard H. Blond is studying for the Episcopal
ministry and after his ordination will specialize in
hospice and hospital chaplaincy. He is a service
representative with Northwest Airlines and lives
in Bainbridge Island, Wash.

Dr. Richard W. Cohen is vice president of the
Medical Association of Georgia. He is an or-
thopedic surgeon and lives in Atlanta.

John T. Crone, president of the San Antonio
chapter of the National Association of Industrial
and Office Parks, received the association’s 1987
Chapter of the Year Award in October. Crone is
vice president of Ray Ellison Industries Inc.

John J. Haun is chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of Summit Home Insurance Co.,
a Minnesota chartered company specializing in
mobile home and automobile insurance. Haun
works at the company’s executive and ad-
ministrative offices in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

1961
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. Hunter Thompson, a
daughter, Cary Hunter, on Feb. 10, 1987, in Rich-
mond. Thompson is a partner at the investments
firm of Branch, Cabell & Co.

Richard H. Parsons was featured in the September
1987 issue of The National Law Journal for his
law practice in Peoria, IIl., and his career in federal
criminal practice. He has been a trial judge for the
Illinois Court of Claims for 15 years.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr. (See 1959).

Col. J. Walter Shugart III retired from the U.S.
Army on Aug. 31, 1987, and is now self-employed
as a people development consultant in Richmond.

1962

John W. Boyle Jr. is chairman of the lending and
finance division of Robert Morris Associates, a na-
tional association of bank, loan, and credit of-
ficers. Boyle, a corporate executive officer of
Sovran Bank in Richmond, is also an ex officio
board member of the association.

Alan M. Corwin and his wife, Robin, traveled to
Israel in March for an international conference of
sister cities committees. Corwin is vice president
of investments with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in
Olympia, Wash.

Thomas L. Melgaard Jr. and his wife, Janel, have
relocated from Reno, Nev., to Dulles Airport in
northern Virginia as a result of the expansion of
United Airlines. The couple lives in the Blue Ridge

Mountains near Bluemont, close to the Ap-
palachian Trail.

Wesley Roche Ostergren and his family are set-
tled in Barnegat Light, N.J. He recently passed
the New Jersey bar exam.

James H. Starkey III is senior vice president of
Universal Leaf Tobacco Co. Inc. in Richmond,
president of the Leaf Tobacco Exporters Associa-
tion, a member of the board of directors of the
Tobacco Manufacturers Association, and
secretary, executive committee member, and chair-
man of the national affairs committee for Virginia
Agribusiness Council.

Harry Teter Jr. joined the Columbus, Ohio, law
firm of Bricker & Eckler as head of the firm’s
Washington, D.C., office. Teter is also general
manager of the National Theatre.

Stephen F. Tomasek Jr. works for the com-
monwealth of Virginia as a legal consultant in the
central office in Washington, D.C. He lives in
Millersville, Md.

1963

Theodore A. Doremus Jr. is practicing law in
Washington, D.C., with Davis, Polk & Wardwell.
He is active in the affairs of Stetson University,
McLean School of Maryland, and Country Day
School of McLean, Va.

Thomas P. McDavid of Phoenix, Md., is adviser
to the Small Business Council for the state of
Maryland. He is senior vice president in charge of
the metropolitan banking division with Signet
Bank/Maryland.

J. Holmes Morrison is president and chief
operating officer of One Valley Bank, West
Virginia’s largest commercial bank. He is chair-
man of the Charleston Chamber of Commerce for
1988 and is president-elect of the Charleston
Rotary Club.

Warren M. Posey is assistant treasurer of inter-
national finance and investor relations with Arm-
strong World Industries in Lancaster, Pa.

J. Richard Uhlig II is senior vice president at The
KMS Group Inc., a developer of shopping centers
and office buildings in the Washington, Baltimore,
and Wilmington areas. The company is based in
Columbia, Md.

Jay F. Wilks is senior partner with Kaufman &
Canoles, a law firm with offices in Norfolk,
Virginia Beach, and Newport News, Va. He is also
managing partner of Cashvan Arabian Farms of
Virginia Beach, the largest Arabian breeding farm
in Virginia.

Sherwood W. Wise Jr. spent three months last year
as a micropaleontologist sailing with the Ocean
Drilling Program to the Weddell Sea off Antarc-
tica. He is currently a co-leader on a similar cruise
to the Kerguelen Plateau in the Antarctic sector
of the Indian Ocean. Wise is with the department
of geology at Florida State University.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William T. Braithwaite, a
son, Thomas William, on July 16, 1987.
Braithwaite is an associate professor of law at
Loyola University in Chicago.

Samuel T. Patterson Jr. is practicing law in
Petersburg, Va., and is substitute judge for the
general district and juvenile relations district courts
in the 11th Judicial District.

Jerome Turner was confirmed unanimously by the
Senate in December as a U.S. district judge. He
took office in January. The Memphis lawyer had

W&L 31

   

 

utheastern Ri
| Petersburg, Fae :

_ a guidance counselor at Morris High drink business, A
Ge i OR ev YX ) .L 4 11 1 r = - me a “ ce Ae chester, Ky., Ww vee ) e Ny) 7 s wife : _
eis 7 ) a tha, jana their three children, "Relding, 7 7, , Sara
4,and Daniel, 2. = == Cancer ¢ he Cal ees y
‘Smith Jr. is director of biochemistry Ao Ib 2 mer ae ber 8 of am as pais
at EG&G Mason Rese tcl _ the board of directors of the American Associa-
spital D Ss, an coe

oboe
po

   

D oo with. First. Wachovia "Cor: 4 in

n ta. He manages t the Atlanta and _ York

 

to Atlanta in January with their t two c chide
_ Sarah and Richard. |

 

    

| onitoring in BIRTH : Mr. and Mrs. A. G. (Joe) w son,ason, Environmental Protection \g¢
a age of the national Hunter Taylor, on Nov. 20, 1987, in Columbia, —_10 years, handling ¢ enviro
rin h Carolina. _ litigation. —

S.C. Wilson i isa state s

 

  

   

7 D and is inc che
| enforcement Program. — |

32, Wa

             

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Peter C. Eggers is vice president of the custom
millwork firm of Woden Woods Inc. in Denver,
Colo. He lives in Evergreen with his wife, Peggy,
and four children, Megan, 12, Galen, 10, Moria,
7, and Alex, 2.

Dr. Frank E. Fisher Jr. recently became an
instrument-rated private pilot and is now work-
ing toward his commercial certificate in Rio Ran-
cho, N.M.

Henry A. Fleishman is on the board of directors
for Hospice of Rockingham County in North
Carolina and is on the executive committee and
treasurer of the Eden Chamber of Commerce.

Milford B. Hatcher Jr. is a partner with Hansell
& Post at the law firm’s Macon, Ga., office. He
is president of Macon’s Downtown Council.

David D. Johnson III, a partner with the law firm
of Spilman, Thomas, Battle & Klostermeyer, lives
outside Charleston, W.Va., on 45 acres with his
wife, three daughters, three horses, two dogs, and
two cats.

Philip S. Keat is a branch manager with First
Hawaiian Bank in Kailua. His hobbies include
studio recording, music production, song writing,
and golf. He lives with his wife, Dawn, in
Honolulu.

Reeve W. Kelsey began a four-year term on the
Perrysburg, Ohio, city council in November. He
is an attorney with the firm Marshall & Melhorn
in Toledo.

Clifford H. Kern III is assistant to the president
of Imreg Inc., a biotechnology company in New
Orleans. He lives in Metairie with his wife, Ar-
villa, and two children, Daniel, 10, and David, 5.

David D. Kympton, an investment banker with
Eden Hannon & Co. in Alexandria, Va., is also
vice president of finance and chief financial of-
ficer of Offshore Scientific Corp., a wholly own-
ed subsidiary of Eden Hannon. He lives in Alex-
andria with his wife, Connie.

Dr. James W. Major Jr. is a general surgeon in
private practice in Seminole, Okla.

D. Whitney Thornton II (See 1968).

Charles R. Whipple III is completing a Ph.D. in
English at the University of South Carolina, where
he is studying rhetoric and composition, modern
British literature, and linguistics and is editor of
‘‘Contexts,’’ the university’s composition and
rhetoric newsletter.

1971

MARRIAGE: C. E. (Tripp) Smith III and Tam-
mera Lord on Sept. 12, 1987. The couple lives in
Martinsburg, W.Va., where Smith is executive vice
president of Smith-Nadenbouh Insurance.

MARRIAGE: Andrew J. White Jr. and M. Susie
Dickerson in January. Both practice law at dif-
ferent firms in Greenville, S.C.

Arthur F. Cleveland, a real estate developer in
Spartanburg, S.C., has established American
Farmed Seafoods, a fish marketing company in
Seattle specializing in Atlantic salmon, oysters,
clams, and catfish.

Lawrence L. McConnell is managing editor with
The Tampa Tribune.

Dr. Barry W. Mitchell is doing a postgraduate
fellowship in aesthetic surgery in Albany, N.Y.,
and plans to set up a practice in California, where
he completed a residency in plastic and reconstruc-
tive surgery at the University of California.

Henry Nottberg III is vice chairman of the board
of trustees of Research Medical Center, a 700-bed

hospital with affiliated corporations in Kansas Ci-
ty, Mo. He is also a trustee of the University of
Missouri-Kansas City.

Joseph B. Tompkins of Alexandria has been re-
elected chairman of the Virginia Council on Health
Regulatory Boards.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William T. Anderson, a
son, Sean William, on Sept. 11, 1987, in Mons,
Belgium.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Converse, a son,
Peter Alexander, on Aug. 24, 1987. He joined a
sister, Cari, 5. The family lives in Annandale, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William K. Millkey, a
daughter, Jennifer, on Dec. 14, 1987. The family
lives in Atlanta.

B. C. (Ben) Grigsby II is chief executive officer
and managing director of Barclays deZoete Wedd
Government Securities Inc., a newly formed com-
pany of the Barclays Bank Group responsible for
worldwide trading, sales, and research in the U.S.
government and for other fixed income securities
issued in the United States.

Matson C. Terry II is one of six attorneys who
formed a new law firm in Irvington, Va., in
November. He is escheator for Lancaster County
and a commissioner in Chancery Circuit Court.
In the Virginia State Bar, he is a member of the
section on real property and criminal law.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. Price Blackford, a sec-

ond son, Henry Geer, on Dec. 16, 1987. The family
lives in New York City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. M. Anderson Bradshaw,
a third daughter, Helen Otelia, on Nov. 10, 1987.
The family lives in Toano, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clapp, a son,
James Reid, by adoption on Aug. 20, 1987. Clapp
practices law in Frederick, Md., with the firm of
Shoemaker, Horman & Clapp.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Croft, a
daughter, Anne Carrington, on Oct. 7, 1987. The
Crofts live in Richmond with their five children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. Barratt Cullen III, a son,
Harper Fisk, on Nov. 13, 1987. The family lives
in Rehoboth Beach, Del.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Jason Matthews, a
daughter, Aglaia Alexandra, on Sept. 11, 1987.
The family lives in Bethesda, Md. Matthews works
at the State Department in European and Cana-
dian affairs. He had been posted in Budapest,
Hungary, until July, and he expects to be overseas
again this summer.

David L. Connolly is an exploration geologist with
Texaco. He lives in Bellaire, Texas, with his wife,
Marjorie, and daughter, Katharine, 2.

James A. Fernald is general sales manager with
WVIR-TV, the NBC affiliate in Charlottesville,
Va. He and his wife, Betsy, are also co-owners of
the Roasted Bean Cafe in downtown Charlot-
tesville with J. Dan Scott III, ’77. The Fernalds
have one son, Jamie, 6.

John W. Folsom, president of South Carolina
Federal Corp. and its principal subsidiary, South
Carolina Federal Savings Bank in Columbia, suc-
ceeded his father, John R. Folsom, as chief ex-
ecutive officer. South Carolina Federal operates
22 retail banking offices and six mortgage bank-
ing offices in South Carolina and has assets of ap-
proximately $675 million.

Dean R. Harry is president of Classic Wines, a
wine and beer importer and distributor in Raleigh,
N.C.

William P. Peak Jr., executive director of Open
Arms Inc., a social service agency in northern
Virginia, expects to open a day-care center for low-
income families in 1988. Open Arms’ services in-
clude programs for homebound elderly and a com-
munity center in a subsidized housing develop-
ment. Peak is also researching medieval
monasticism for a book he hopes to write. He lives

 

W&L 33

 

 

 

 
 
 
  

Alexandria ia with his wife, Melissa McLoud, who.
is pursuing a doctorate in American studies a

 

: ional " development company. bas ed
Washington, D.C. He is currently a ‘project

anager for a vegetable i irrigation project in Chad
in 1 central Africa. Roseberry’ s involvement i in athe
project will end in May 1989.

Geoffrey Ss. Shuff practices law with t
risburg, Pa., firm of Nauman, smuthys |

 

   
 
 
  
   

and secretary of ‘Commonw alt
a ‘Meton. a ae sul

 
  
  
  
  

/ wre onl i

 
 

_ Mny for outstanding inve

< ons in pes Ssh NJ.

  
 

| & Stutts in Birminghe

\ODE! Wia t, on
| in Troutville, Va.

in September. He works for aii Life Co. in
Simsbury, Conn.

Chris E. Lundgren is a senior account executive
with Dun’s Marketing Services, a consulting c com-
pany in Rochelle Park, N. J.

Thomas A. Mattesky has been awarded an Em-
est igative journalism by the
National Academy of” Television Arts and Sciences
The award was presented for a series of stories
about the dangers of medical helicopters that ap-
peared on the CBS Evening News with Dan
Rather. The stories were produced by Mattesky,
who i is assigned to the network’s Atlanta bureau.

William H. Sanders. Jr. is mayor of Mission

 
 

 

_ Woods, Kan., a suburb of Kansas City, Mo. He

is a partner in the Kansas we, law firm: of
Blackwell, Sanders, Mathery, W Wea:

oe

 

  
  
  
 
   

 

sph, Mark ax D 1987 wo family

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Carter H. Moore, a a son,
David Carter, on Oct. 29, 1987. He joined a sister,

°

amily » 3. The family lives in Housto.
Charles J. Brown III is president of Westmoreland

 

on. SS

Energy Inc., a developer of cogeneration power

; tner i in 1 the certified
) Watkins,
St. (

= es in 1987 for ¢ Outstanding You y Men
aie ‘coe rah, hav

a partner i nthe Fim of Sadler ‘

   
  
 

 

_ Moseley Securities Corp. in’

- Inman, Lee & Oliveri. The new |

 
   
 
 
 

“Swaine & Moore in New York City. —

 
 

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Steven P. Settlage, a son,
Joshua Taylor, on June 22, 1987. He joined two
sisters, Christi, 9, and Jessica Lauren, 2, anda
brother, Matthew, 6. Settlage is executive vice
president of Rowe Development Co. in Richmond.

Jeffrey A. Baum has been practicing orthopedic
surgery in Hickory, N.C., since July.

ames P. Carmody is assistant commonwealth’s
attorney i in Tazewell County, Va.

bert M. Dilling is a partner in the finance and
real. estate section of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske,
Beckhorn & Hanes, the largest firm in northern
Virgil > third largest in the commonwealth
with offices in id, Alexanc dria, Fairfax,

 

 

 

       
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 

 

Leesburg, and Vas n. He lives i in Fairfax
with his wife, Sharor , and three children. ©
Harriet Dickins practices law privately

with the Blacksburg, pai firm of Dorsey &

Long.

Steven D. Entwistle lives in Ne oétt News, Va..
with his wife, Sharon, and so n, Michael Robert, 1.

David K. Eubank is an inv

 
 

 
  
  
 

 
 

John S. Norris Jr. is a partner i 1 the Vir
law firm of Anderson & Inman, t e resul
cent merging of the firms Anderson <

 
     
  
 
 

  

 

ie in the Lynnhaven area of Vv |

r. Michael A. Okin is associate (
Cyachinare. (Va.) Family Practi
Program. — ; -

   
    
  
  
 

  

 
 

mhomas: |

 
    
   
  
  
 

119 86, 5 he received a doctorate

   

Jniv and recently completed a postdoc-
1 fell ova at the University of Alberta.

 
  
 
 
 
 

 

a business. WHIT Corp, in hamnen
Maine. He performs nha ansiet in cattle
througha

 

, Sarah, 5, and
cal Clinic

El eth Bree ks. on ‘Nov. 15, “1987.
isa a partner “with the law firm of Cravath,

 

 

Gary W. Adams, assistant to the chancellor for
the West Virginin Board of Regents, was selecte
as a 1987 Toll Fellow by the Council of State
Governments for outstanding public service. Na-
tionwide, 32 Fellows received appointments,
representing the executive, | ive, and j a
branches of government in 29 states. Ada ns lives
in Charleston. 7

Douglass W. Dewing i is employed with Lawyers

 

 

 

    

7 ic chemistry from Colorado .

 

 

 

 

Title Insurance Corp. in Norfolk, Va. He lives in
Portsmouth with his wife, Christine, and three
sons.

Michael E. Forry is real estate office vice presi-
dent and a real estate lender with Security Pacific
National Bank in Washington, D.C. He lives in
Manassas, Va., with his wife, Melody, and son,
Taylor, 2.

Timothy P. Ingram specializes in energy and an-
titrust law as an associate with the law firm of
Wheatley & Wollesen in Annapolis, Md. He lives
in Arlington, Va., with his wife, Sarah.

Lee M. Kennedy is assistant director of public af-
fairs at The Francis Scott Key Medical Center, a
member of the Johns Hopkins Health System in
Baltimore.

James E. Nicholson moonlights as a somewhat
harried house-husband and father for the waking
hours when he’s not practicing law in Minneapolis.
His wife, Debbie, has finished her first quarter as
a medical student at the University of Minnesota.
The family recently moved to Edina.

Dr. R. Mark Payne is doing a fellowship in
pediatric cardiology at Washington University
School of Medicine in St. Louis, where he lives
with his wife, Helen.

William H. Sands is president of Rheinhauers, a
women’s clothing chain. He lives in Winter Haven,
Fla., with his wife, Julia, who is vice president of
finance for Rheinhauers.

Wubbo J. Tempel is company secretary of Elsevier
Science Publishers b.v., based in Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. He moved to Rotterdam, where his
wife, Conny, is employed with Unilever N.V. as
an international coordination consultant on
catering.

Stephen C. Yevich is corporate treasurer with Wyly
Collection Inc., a holding company in Dallas,
whose operating units engage in specialty retailing.

1978
MARRIAGE: H. Heartsill Ragon III and Claudia
Hopkins of Huntsville, Ala., on Sept. 19, 1987.
Eric A. Nord, ’79, was best man. Ragon specializes
in corporate and commercial law with the Little
Rock, Ark., law firm of House, Wallace & Jewell.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Eamon G. Cassell, a
daughter, Madeleine Shanae, on Nov. 24, 1987.
Cassell is stationed at Fort Huachuca, Ariz.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Cleary, a son,
Richard Simon, on July 15, 1987. Cleary practices
management labor and employment law as a part-
ner with Greenebaum, Doll & McDonald in
Louisville, Ky. He is chairman of the firm’s labor
law department.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John M. Hill, a second
child, Helen Johnston, on June 4, 1987. Hill is an
associate attorney at the law firm of Hutchison,
Price, Boyle & Brooks in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John D. Long, a second
daughter, Annette Mary, on Oct. 6, 1987. The
family lives in Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. Boice McGrew, a
daughter, on May 22, 1987. McGrew is a bank-
ing officer with Trust Company Bank in Tucker,
Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Howard A. Rubel, a son,
Todd Robert, on July 12, 1987. The family lives
in New York City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James N. Walter Jr., a son,

John Philip Shealy, on Nov. 20, 1987. Walter prac-
tices law in Montgomery, Ala., with the law firm

of Capell, Howard, Knabe & Cobbs.

Walter Granruth III is vice president in the mergers
and acquisitions department of Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding in New York City.

Harry A. Mazaheri commutes from his home in
Philadelphia to New York City, where he is
manager of portfolio and trading product/system
development with Kidder, Peabody & Co.

Richard B. McDaniel is manager of the radifocus
division of Terumo Corp., a developer of medical
instruments used in vascular imaging and therapy.
He lives in Stockton, N.J.

Michael J. Missal specializes in corporate and
securities law with Kirkpatrick & Lockhart in
Washington, D.C.

O. Warren Mowry Jr. performed the one-man
show ‘‘Clarence Darrow’’ at the Warehouse
Theatre in Greenville, S.C., during the South
Carolina Bar Association’s celebration of the 200th
anniversary of the U.S. Constitution. Some of the
proceeds benefited the bar’s pro bono program.

Seth W. Oserin is a systems analyst for Mission
Industries in Santa Barbara, Calif. He lives in Ojai.

Richard C. Taylor is a commercial leasing officer
with Radnor/Smith Partnership in Atlanta.

David A. Tumen is a tax attorney with the Col-
umbus, Ohio, law firm of Porter, Wright, Mor-
ris & Arthur. He and his wife, Patty, have a son,
Jimmy, 1.

John F. Wheatley is manager of the corporate trust
department at First Interstate Bank of Denver.

1979

MARRIAGE: James S. Frantz Jr. and Janet Dunn
on June 20, 1987. Included in the wedding party
were J. Spencer Frantz, ’54; Robert R. Frantz, ’81;
Abney S. Boxley III, ’80; and the groom’s W&L
classmates, Freeman E. Jones, Preston A.
Waldrop, and Paul W. Gerhardt. The couple lives
in Roanoke.

MARRIAGE: Charles Carroll Smith and Diana
Margaret Mitchell on Dec. 27, 1986. The wedding
party included Rob Mish, ’76, Mike Armstrong,
77, Bill Ridge, ’80, and Mike Malesardi, ’82. The
couple lives in Prairie Village, Kan.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Fletcher, a son,
William Burnett, on June 30, 1987. Fletcher is vice
president and general manager of Snappy Food
Marts Inc. in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Lane, a
daughter, Mary MacPherson, on Oct. 20, 1987.
She joined two brothers, David and Edward. The
family lives in Altavista, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Warren A. Stephens, a son,
John Calhoun, on Nov. 20, 1987, in Little Rock,
Ark. He joined a brother, Miles, 1.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Womble, a son,
Robert Byron Jr., on Oct. 28, 1987. Womble is
a partner in the Raleigh, N.C., law firm of Poyner
& Spruill.

Robert Edward Atkinson Jr. is assistant professor
of law at Florida State University in Tallahassee,
where he lives with his wife, Stephanie, and two
children, Edward, 5, and Jane Louise, 1.

Robert M. Burkholder Jr. is associated with the
West Chester, Pa., law firm of Gawthrop, Green-
wood & Halsted. He is active in the Navy Reserves,
having left the Navy, JAGC, in September 1986.
He lives in West Chester with his wife, Kit, who
teaches at Westtown School.

K. Joseph Cosgrove is deputy city attorney for

ee

Virginia Beach. He lives in Chesapeake with his
wife, Sharon, and son, Brent Joseph, 2.

Norvell O. Scott III is a member of the law firm
of Williams, Wovell, Kelly & Greer in Norfolk,
Va.

Mark E. Sharp (See Patricia A. Woodward, ’80).

1980
MARRIAGE: Carl W. Miller II and Pamela J.
Owens on March 14, 1987, in Pittsburgh. Ushers
included Miller’s W&L classmates John C. Kisalus
and Jesse F. Suber. Miller is a manufacturing
engineer at GE Aircraft Engines Composite Opera-
tions in Albuquerque, N.M.

MARRIAGE: Neil T. Pentifallo and Michelle
Ludwig on June 6, 1987, on Lake Cayuga in
Aurora, N.Y. Dr. Vernon E. O’Berry Jr., ’76, was
best man. Pentifallo is assistant vice president of
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in Minneapolis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Pearce Jr., a
son, Robert Walton III, on Sept. 3, 1987. Pearce
is vice president of Financial Asset Management
Inc., a financial consulting firm in Charleston,
oe. :

BIRTH: Patricia A. Woodward and her husband,
Mark E. Sharp, ’76, ’79L, a daughter, Grace
Eileen, on Oct. 23, 1987. She joined a brother,
Matthew, 3. The family lives in Warrenton, Va.,
where Woodward practices law. Sharp is
associated with the Fairfax law firm of Dixon &
Smith.

Timothy A. Brooks is director of sales and
marketing for The Mayfair Regent Hotel in
Chicago. In addition to domestic marketing, he
is responsible for clients in Tokyo, Hong Kong,
London, Frankfurt, West Germany, and Sydney,
Australia.

Robert Barton Earle is manager of the Ship EMP
Program at EG&G, Washington Analytical Ser-
vices Center. The program involves studying the
effects and magnitude of nuclear radiation on
naval ships and also designing systems that shield
against radiation. Earle lives in Gaithersburg, Md.

Regina M. Ednie became associate counsel with
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Virginia in January. She
has been employed in the corporate legal depart-
ment at the Richmond office since 1983.

David A. Greer is on the board of directors and
is chairman of the fund-raising committee of the
Back Bay Restoration Foundation, a private, non-
profit citizens’ group in Norfolk, Va.

Paul C. Hendry is pursuing a doctorate in English
at the University of Southern California in Los
Angeles, where he also teaches freshman writing.

Stewart D. Jackson is a credit officer in the Loan
Policy Department at NCNB National Bank in
Tampa, Fla.

James R. Leva, a candidate for a doctorate in
French at the University of Virginia, received a
fellowship at the Folger Shakespeare Library in
the spring of 1987. He has worked as an actor,
musician, and composer for Lime Kiln Arts Inc.
in Lexington, where a production of A Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream last summer featured his
original music.

Carl E. Perry is a claims attorney for the U.S.
Army at Fort Polk, La.

M. Wayne Ringer, an attorney with Williams,
Worrell, Kelly & Greer, is now a shareholder of
the Norfolk, Va., law firm.

Kevin J. Ross, assistant district attorney in Boston,
was a featured speaker at the annual meeting of

W&L 35

 

the New England Narcotic Enforcement Officers
Association in 1987. He recently traveled to Arkan-
sas to teach law enforcement officers at a seminar
on electronic surveillance.

Richard H. Schoenfeld (See John S. R.
Schoenfeld, ’49).

Donald E. Swagart is director of admissions and
financial aid for the Landon School in Bethesda,
Md. He lives in Olney with his wife and two
children, Kaitlin Blaylack and Morgan Leslie.

Charles V. Terry practices pediatrics with Drs.
Overton, Wiley & Kirchmier in Richmond.

Elizabeth Turley, an associate with the Chicago
firm of Jenner & Block, recently co-authored a
chapter for the 1988 edition of Business Interests
in Estates, which will be published by the IIlinois
Institute for Continuing Legal Education.

1981
MARRIAGE; William R. Cole III and Mary Leigh
Wooton on Nov. 7, 1987, in Louisville, Ky.
Groomsmen included H. Powell Starks, ’83, and
J. Whitcombe Welch II, ’81.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Gaker, a third
son, John Louis, on Jan. 6, 1988, in Charlot-
tesville, Va. Gaker is doing his residency at the
University of Virginia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas H. Hantzes, a
son, William Augustus, on Nov. 3, 1987. He join-
ed a brother, Harrison, 2. The family lives in
Chantilly, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Rodgers, a son,
Winthrop Mundy, on July 3, 1987, in Arlington,
Va. Rodgers, a foreign service officer, is an ad-
viser to the US-USSR Standing Consultative Com-
mission, which meets semi-annually in Geneva,
Switzerland, to consider questions of arms con-
trol compliance.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Salmons Jr.,
a daughter, Angela Hamer Dillard, on Jan. 10,
1988, in Charleston, S.C. Salmons is vice presi-
dent of Salmons Dredging Co. and president of
the Charleston Alumni Chapter.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward T. Taylor, twin
daughters, Julia Speed and Sidney Stewart, on July
15, 1987, in Charlotte. Taylor is vice president of
Kuester Properties Inc., a commercial real estate
firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark A. Williams, a son,
Adam Clark, on Nov. 12, 1987. Williams is assis-
tant city attorney in Roanoke.

J. Ross Germano traveled from Baltimore to Lake
Walloon in Michigan last summer to attend a
spelunking expedition, which T. B. (Biff) Martin
Jr., 80, organized. Gerard W. Barousse Jr., ’81,
and H. A. (Hank) de Muth, ’80, also participated.

Brian M. Ginsburg specializes in corporate law and
real estate as an associate with the firm of Dughi
& Hewit in Cranford, N.J.

David H. Johnson is a partner in the law firm of
McCorkle, Pedigo, Hunter & Johnson in Savan-
nah, Ga.

Carlis E. Kirkpatrick III works with Wahoo Land
& Cattle Co. Inc., a producer of veal calves. The
business is located in Gainesville, Ga., where he
lives with his wife, Susan.

Christopher S. O’Connor is an associate in the
sales and trading division of Salomon Brothers Inc.
in New York City. He is a 1987 graduate of Har-
vard Business School.

R. Donald Rigger Jr. is a geologist in the super-
fund branch of the Environmental Protection

36 Ss W&L

Agency. He is assigned to the Region IV office in
Atlanta.

Capt. John K. Schmidt works in the area of avia-
tion experimental psychology at the U.S. Army
Human Engineering Laboratory in Aberdeen, Md.
A graduate of the U.S. Army Flight Surgeon’s
Course, Schmidt also holds a doctorate in
engineering psychology from the University of
Houston. He lives with his wife, Kellia, in
Belcamp, Md.

Geoffrey P. Sisk is an investment broker with
Legg, Mason, Wood, Walker Inc. in Richmond.

Charles J. Van Horn is treasurer of Oliver H. Van
Horn Co. in New Orleans, where he lives with his
wife and daughter, Katie, 2.

1982

BIRTH; T. Daniel Frith If] and Linda Davis Frith,
a son, Thomas Daniel IV, on Nov. 30, 1987, in
Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Randall Jr., a
son, Ramsay Thompson, on Oct. 13, 1987. Ran-
dall is an associate with the law firm of Hoskins,
King, McGannon & Hahn in Kansas City, Mo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. A. (Jack) Wells III, a
daughter, Elizabeth Whaley, on Sept. 15, 1987.
Wells will begin a residency in ophthalmology at
Emory University School of Medicine in July.

Frank D. Agnew is an assistant vice president in
the corporate finance department of Morgan
Keegan in New Orleans. Joseph L. Carrere, ’77,
and Robert B. Ramirez, ’79, work in the same
department.

S. Scott Barr is a mortgage loan officer with Loan
American Mortgage Corp. in Miami.

Christopher W. Davis leads business management
courses around the country for Logonet Inc. in
Emeryville, Calif. He is also writing his master’s
thesis.

Robert J. Davis is an actor in New York City, per-
forming under the name Robert Ashford. His pur-
suits include the Broadway revival of Cole Porter’s
Anything Goes at the Lincoln Center.

Charles D. Griffith Jr. is an assistant U.S. attorney
in the criminal division of the Eastern District of
Virginia in Norfolk.

Michael Judge continues to receive good reviews
for his theatre appearances in Washington, D.C.
He was recently seen in the Source Theatre’s pro-
duction of Safe Sex, a trilogy of one-acts written
by Harvey Fierstein about relationships and the
AIDS crisis. He also appeared in a production of
Polish playwright Stanislaus Ignacy Witkiewicz’s

Tropical Madness, which was produced at the
Scena Theatre.

John E. Monroe works in the investment bank-
ing department of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in
Atlanta.

John T. Warmath III is pursuing an MBA from
the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

R. Blake Witherington is a vice president with
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York City.

Robert K. Wittpenn, a 1987 graduate of The
Darden School at the University of Virginia, is in
corporate development with his family’s fourth-
generation firm, Rockland Chemical Co. Inc., in
West Caldwell, N.J. He lives in New York City.

H. Lee Woosley III works in the capital markets
division of First American Corp. in Nashville,

Tenn.

MARRIAGE: Israel Kay Redd III and Anita
Celeste Swink on Oct. 17, 1987. Redd is a plant
manager with Chesapeake Corp. The couple lives
in Elizabeth City, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Kellerman Jr.,
a son, Gordon Steed, on Jan. 7, 1988. The family
lives in Sparks, Md.

William Evans Alison Jr. received the M.D. degree
from the University of Alabama in June 1987.

James R. Black works for Hord, Coplan, Macht
Architects in Baltimore.

Brian L. Hanson is a secondary marketing officer
with United Savings Bank in Vienna, Va.

R. Lee Nichols Jr. is a first-year resident at the
University of Tennessee and begins his orthopedic
surgery residency at the Campbell Clinic in Mem-
phis this July.

Christopher D. Schram is touring the United
States, Canada, and Mexico for seven months as
a dancer with Sea World of Texas’ promotional
production, ‘‘Big Splash.’’ A certified judge in the
Miss America Pageant system, Schram is a
member of the board of directors and executive
producer of the Miss San Antonio and Miss Bex-
ar County Scholarship pageants. He recently form-
ed Thomas-Daniel Productions Ltd., producers of
the Texas Mother-Daughter and the Texas U.S.
Man of the Year pageants.

Camden Wood Selig is assistant to the director of
Virginia Commonwealth University’s athletic
department. His duties include the sale of athletic
sponsorships, promotions, and various Universi-
ty Council Committee functions.

 

 

Jackson R. Sharman III, a second-year law stu-
dent at Harvard University, wrote an article on
the Voting Rights Act of 1965 for the summer 1987
issue of the Harvard Journal of Law and Public
Policy. He is also the author of ‘‘Secession
Chapter,’’ a short story published in the spring
1987 issue of The Southern Review.

Nicholas W. Teare is an account executive for
Lawler Ballard Advertising in Richmond.

Sandra S. Thurston is assistant commonwealth’s
attorney in Warren County, Va., where she is a
prosecutor in Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court.

Bruce E. Wennerholm is a market research
associate at Westvaco in New York City. He lives
in Brooklyn with his wife, Wendy.

1984

MARRIAGE: Brooks Heaton Mayson and Ann
Kathryn Wilkinson, ’87, on Jan. 2, 1988. Hyla
Flaks, ’87, served as maid of honor. The couple
lives in Greensboro, N.C., where he is a pilot with
Piedmont Airlines. She is an attorney with the
Winston-Salem firm of Burns & Price.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kevin R. Rardin, a
daughter, Mary Clark Goodlett, on Aug. 27, 1987.
Rardin is assistant attorney general in Memphis,
Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. George H. Weatherly Jr.,
ason, Joshua Aaron, on Nov. 15, 1987. Weatherly
is a salesman for Micro-Shield Inc. in Dallas.

Thomas L. H. Cocke is an intern writer in the
creative department at Tucker Wayne, an Atlan-
ta advertising agency. The four-month internship
began in January.

David H. Denby Jr. is pursuing a master’s degree
in business administration from the University of
Colorado.

Breese Mark Dickinson is a second-year law stu-
dent at the University of Maryland.

W. Gerard Fallon Jr. is an associate in the cor-
porate department at the law firm of Sullivan &
Worcester in Boston.

Scott John Fitzgerald is clerking for Judge
Nicholas G. Mandak, ’54, in Paterson, N.J.

David J. Hansen is associated with Kawn, Dicker-
son & McCain, a Nashville, Tenn., firm specializ-
ing in health-care law. His wife, Anne, is a second-
year medical student at Vanderbilt University.

Robert C. Jenevein, currently working in the real
estate market in Dallas, plans to enter law school
this fall.

Michael F. Killea, a 1987 graduate of Georgetown
University Law Center, passed the New York Bar
Examination and is specializing in corporate
finance as an associate with the New York City
firm of O’Sullivan, Graev & Karabell.

Jeffrey W. Knapp is a second-year law student at
the University of Pennsylvania and associate editor
of the law review.

Paul E. Levy is teaching and doing research at
Virginia Tech while pursuing a doctorate from that
institution.

Christopher M. Murphy is a marketing represen-
tative in the national federal marketing division
of IBM in Washington, D.C.

Thomas J. Rohrig works in the grants department
at Baylor College of Medicine, where he monitors
$45 million in grants and contracts to the institu-
tion. He has completed work on his post-
baccalaureate degree in accounting and intends to

sit for the Certified Public Accountant examina-
tion in May.

1st Lt. Stephen J. A. Smith returned to the United
States from his station in West Germany and is
enrolled in the Signal Officer Advance Course at
Fort Gordon, Ga.

Dow T. Voelker, a 1987 graduate of Capital
University Law School and a member of the Ohio
Bar Association, practices law in Columbus with
his father, Dirken T. Voelker, ’54.

M. Eugene Wood III is assistant vice president at
First Wachovia Corporate Services Inc. in
Winston-Salem, N.C. He is product manager in
the corporate finance group.

Michael Stedman Wyatt, a real estate broker for
Kelley Lundeen Inc., is enrolled part time in the
University of Dallas’ MBA program. He rooms
with J. Cole Dawson III, ’85.

1985
MARRIAGE: Roger T. Day and Johanna L. Grif-
fith on Dec. 28, 1987, in Birmingham, Ala. Eric
A. Heinsohn, ’83, the first half of the original
acoustic guitar duo Heinsohn & Day, provided
music. Based in Atlanta, Heinsohn & Day will
release a second recording this spring.

MARRIAGE: David H. Jones and Ana Margarita
Garcia on Aug. 8, 1987, in Laredo, Texas. The
couple lives in Austin, where Jones is a second-
year law student at the University of Texas.

MARRIAGE: G. Jonathan Renner III and
Patricia Leahy on June 20, 1987. Renner is an
assistant account executive with Backer,
Spielvogel, Bates Inc. The couple lives in Bronx-
ville, N.Y.

MARRIAGE: Elizabeth Townsend Winson and
Jeff Parker on Sept. 5, 1987. The bride’s law
school classmate Virginia Greer Stuart was matron
of honor, and Sharon L. Brewer and Susan J.
Devine, both ’85L, were also in the wedding.

Michael S. Bearup is semi-senior accountant in the
audit division of Arthur Andersen & Co. in
Denver, Colo.

Samuel P. Dalton, a third-year law student at the
University of Texas in Austin, has accepted a posi-
tion at the Dallas law firm of Locke, Purnell, Rain
& Harrell.

David R. Donahue is on-air promotions director
at WVRN-TV, Channel 63, in Richmond.

Gilbert F. Dukes III, a third-year law student at
the University of Alabama, plans to attend New
York University’s graduate tax program in the fall.
He has accepted a position as an associate with
the law firm of Lyons, Pipes & Cook in Mobile,
Ala.

David A. Eustis is a first-year law student at
Vanderbilt University.

Gregory W. Hair, a third-year law student at
Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary, has accepted a position at the
law firm of Calfee, Halter & Griswold in
Cleveland.

Jeffrey T. Hirsch is a financial analyst for Exxon
in the company’s Caribbean and Central America
division in Miami.

Michael Z. Jacoby is a realtor and marketing
specialist with Merrill Lynch Realty in Falls
Church, Va.

Scott G. Kennedy teaches journalism, European
history, and South African history at St.
Christopher’s School in Richmond.

Keith D. MacDougall is employed with TCM
Corp., a maritime/industrial firm in New York
City.

Kathryn B. Meadows passed the California bar
and is practicing with the San Diego firm of
Klinedinst, Fliehman & Rescigno.

Gordon S. Ogden is an associate at Pattison Part-
ners, a real estate firm specializing in commercial
leasing and development in New York City.

Brian P. O’ Riordan is completing an M.A. degree
in theatre at Arizona State University. His thesis
production of Eugene Ionesco’s The Chairs is
scheduled for April.

D. C. (Chip) Presten III is a bank examiner for
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. He lives in
Lilburn, Ga.

L. Gray Sanders is a second-year student at the
University of Florida School of Law. He lives in
Gainesville.

William H. Schoeffler works in the corporate
banking group with Barnett Bank of Tampa.

J. Robert Spatig, a history teacher at St. Anne’s-
Belfield School in Charlottesville, Va., is assistant
director of community service, a new program that
he helped to develop. He received one of the
Teacher Recognition Awards from the school’s
headmaster at the 1987 graduation exercises.

1st Lt. Scott T. Waterman recently earned the Ar-
my Achievement Medal and the Senior Parachutist
Badge for his service as ‘‘stinger platoon leader’’
in the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C.
He lives in Fayetteville with his wife, Tavia.

J. Robert Woofter Jr., an attorney in Anchorage,
Alaska, recently won a preliminary injunction
against Atlantic Richfield Co. preventing the fir-
ing of two employees without cause, despite
prevailing common law principles. Woofter and
his wife, Lucie, have two sons, Bobby and Brett.

John W. Zabriskie and M. Brooke Loening, ’86,
have formed Point Way Group Inc., a New York
City general contracting company specializing in
apartment renovations.

1986
MARRIAGE: Peter K. Braden and Holland
Powell Davis on Oct. 3, 1987, in Virginia Beach.
Groomsmen included Braden’s classmates,
Christopher D. John, Willard H. Pearsall III, and
Gregory J. Stites, as well as James F. Owen, ’87.
Braden works for Wheat, First Securities Inc. in
Richmond. He was recently accepted to the
University of Richmond’s evening MBA program.

MARRIAGE: 1st Lt. James G. Renfro Jr. and
Stephanie Jones on Dec. 19, 1987, in Jacksonville,
Fla. The couple lives in Mogglingen, West Ger-
many, where Renfro is serving with the 56th Field
Artillery (Pershing) Command.

2nd Lt. Samuel Riggs Dawson is a UH-60 pilot
with the 52nd Aviation Battalion in Pyongtaek in
the Republic of Korea.

Christopher R. Hope is a consultant in the finan-
cial services division of ITT in Denver, Colo. He
lives in Boulder.

Scott B. Johnstone is a loan officer for Nation-
wide Lending Group in Spartanburg, S.C. He
plans to attend graduate school at the University
of South Carolina in September.

William F. Jones Jr. is a communications consul-
tant with American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
in Charlotte.

Christopher P. Lion is studying at the Lyndon B.
W&L 37

 

:

_ Shella’. -Young'2hd

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Paul J. Savidge is isana
tion section in ue Was

 
 

 

aunghed a halen roca business TC's C Charter

David A. Colt i is an attorney with IBM C 20
Raleigh, N.C.

Marshall M. ay works i in the private finance

group with Dean W.
York City. :

     
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
  

’ 1 (See 1984),

 
 

don this s stinimerto
in U. S. and a Bab a

Ann Kathryn Wilkinson (se Brooks a a
Mayson, “ SS | -

38 W&L

her husband; Bruce, have |

id works: at Legal aid of

rank of major. From

 

   

7 I n Meme riam-

 

1923

adn J une 1987. After earning an engineering
ee from W&L, he moved to Bluefield, W.Va.,

  
  
    
  
    
  
  
    
 

 

where he was resident engineer with Alvord, Bur-
dick & Howson of Chicago. During his career, he
was director of public works for Bluefield, a design
engineer with the State Road Commission, and a
water works engineer i in the Public Service Com-

 

| , Bacon and Inc. ¢ |
From 1946 to 1954, he w was a a consulting « engineer
then became president

«Inc |

     

in Charleston, W. ves
of Kelley, Gidl )

and the ‘Ametican Society of Civil. iT Enuineers,
Kelley served @ as s president and director of the West -

yfes ssional Engineers.

 

in the East before ser’
Air Force dt

 

 

  

of wa heaeniy in Virginia, died J Jan. 9, ‘1988.

Chapman earned a master’s degree from Harvard -
University i in 1929 and then became an instructor _
in English at the University of Alabama. He also _
taught briefly at Harvard and in private schools —
rving five years in the U.S.
ring World War II. He earned two.
presidential citations, four battle stars, and the -
1946 to 1967, he was a |
teacher and admissions director at Woodberry | .

  
 

| private practice

 
  

 

2, 1987. Meo os jing Washington aad
earned a law degree in 1930 0 ft a the Uhiversity
of Pennsylvania. After several years as kcsbiin

 
   
   
  
 
 

a shop steward at Bethlehem Steel Corp. He retired
as a supervisor i in 1970 after 28 years of o Lehiah

son, a . retired director and
ident of Gulf, Mobile & Ohio
ied oe et aie san

ing his c career, he tived | asa 3 director of First ‘Na-
tional Bank i in Mobile Ala., Terminal Railroad
3, Illinois Terminal
ha) Co. He had a

      
 
 

died Oct. 16, +1987, in

Mobile, Ala, a he had lived most of his lif.

 

pes } ot City, died Feb. 21, 1987. He joined
Manufacturers Trust Co. (later renamed Manufac-
turers ree lee ith th Amn ay a vee

  
    
    
 

Cathedral in ‘Denver. =

Se

Richard Blair Skeen, r retired senior vice president

 

 

 
   
   
   
 
  

  

 

ins 1945, was appointed circuit |

 

 

 

a

judge for West Virginia in 1952, and was elected
in 1958 to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West
Virginia. He retired as the first permanent chief
justice of the court in 1977, when he joined the
Charleston firm of Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Far-
rell as counsel. Berry was a Lee Associate of W&L
and served as a deacon and elder at First
Presbyterian Church in Welch.

Hartley Weems (Pete) Kittle Jr., owner of Farmers
Trading Center in Shaw, Miss., died in December
1987. Kittle acquired the farm supply store in 1954.
He was a veteran of World War II, later served
as commander of his local American Legion Post,
and was a member of the Veterans of Foreign
Wars. He had also been president and a 45-year
member of his local Lions Club.

1935

David John Bennett Jr., a retired information
specialist at The Fox Chase Cancer Center in
Philadelphia, died in June 1987. A civil engineer-
ing major at W&L, he joined the Harrisburg, Pa.,
radio station WKBO in 1936 and served as pro-
gram director. During World War II, he served
with the Ordnance Department of the U.S. Army.
In 1946, he returned to WKBO as station manager.
He was later general manager of WTPA, a Har-
risburg television station, and manager of broad-
cast services with Triangle Publications Inc. in
Philadelphia. He joined the public information of-
fice at The Fox Chase Cancer Center in 1972. In
1982, the International Association of Business
Communicators designated Bennett as an ac-
credited business communicator. During his
lifetime, he served as president of the Pennsylvania
Association of Broadcasters, director of the Na-
tional Association of FM Broadcasters, director
and president of the Child Guidance Association,
president of the University Glee Club of
Philadelphia, and a scoutmaster.

1938

Edwin Dymond Axton Jr., former secretary of the
Kentucky State Racing Commission, died Dec. 28,
1987. After attending W&L for three years, he
became district sales manager for Axton-Fisher
Tobacco Co. and then served six years as divisional
sales manager for Reynolds Metals Co. until 1945.
He then took up farming while serving as direc-
tor of the Kentucky Thoroughbred Breeders
Association. He was a director of Lincoln Income
Life Insurance Co. for 30 years.

1939

Dr. David Hall Boals, a retired radiologist who
had practiced at Park Place Hospital in Port Ar-
thur, Texas, died Sept. 7, 1987. After attending
W&L, he completed his bachelor’s degree at Ohio
State University. During World War II, he serv-
ed six years in Italy in the 34th Division of the U.S.
Army, was promoted to the rank of major, and
received the Bronze Star. Boals then attended the
Boston University School of Medicine from 1947
to 1951. While in Port Arthur, he participated in
the YMCA, the Community Concerts Association,
and the Port Arthur Little Theatre.

Harry Blair (Brod) Crane Jr., a retired manage-
ment official with United Air Lines, died Dec. 16,
1987, in Tucson, Ariz. After joining United in
1940, he took a three-year military leave when he
served in England, Scotland, France, and Belgium
with the U.S. Army Air Corps. He returned to the
airline and served in cargo, supply, and passenger
service before joining the personnel department.
When he retired in 1979, he had served 40 years
in Cleveland, Denver, and Chicago.

Dr. Patrick Steven Mullins, a retired physician and

urologist from Morehead City, N.C., died Dec.
18, 1987. After attending W&L, he earned the
M.D. from Yale. After an internship at New York
Medical College, he joined the U.S. Naval Reserve
and served on the U.S.S. Kearny in the Atlantic
Fleet. Following the war, he was a resident physi-
cian at Gallinger Municipal Hospital in
Washington, D.C., and practiced urology in Utica,
N.Y., for 23 years before becoming an industrial
medical officer at USMC Air Force at Cherry
Point, N.C. Mullins retired in 1976. He was a
member of the North Carolina Medical Society,
the National Board of Medical Examiners, the
American Board of Urology, and the American
Urological Association.

1940

Harry Baker Atwood, a retired trust officer for
Simmons First National Bank of Pine Bluff, Ark.,
died Dec. 15, 1987. After attending W&L for two
years, he continued his education at Washington
University in St. Louis. He worked for several
years with Air Reduction Sales Co. in Pine Bluff
and with E. B. and F. R. Bloom Co. before join-
ing the bank in 1959. During his career, he served
as chairman of the trust division of the Arkansas
Bankers Association, secretary-treasurer of the
Pine Bluff Park Commission, and president of his
local chapter of the American Field Service. He
was a deacon and elder at First Presbyterian
Church in Pine Bluff.

194]

Dr. Thomas Lewis Martin, a physician from
Greenville, S.C., died Oct. 5, 1987. He studied
medicine at Duke University and was an intern at
Duke Hospital before attending the School of
Neuropsychiatry at the University of Colorado
under the Army Specialized Training Act. He serv-
ed in Panama for two years as assistant base
surgeon. Following the war, he studied radiology
at Duke Hospital. He also received degrees from
the University of Pennsylvania and the Columbia
University School of Psychiatry. Martin spent
most of his lifetime practicing medicine in Beckley,
W.Va.

Richard Arnd Mehler, a Washington, D.C., an-
titrust and trade association lawyer, died Dec. 18,
1987. After graduating from W&L, he took a job
as a production metallurgist for Carnegie-IIlinois
Steel Corp. at Edgar-Thompson Works in Brad-
dock, Pa. In 1945, he was admitted to the District

of Columbia Bar Association—a year before earn-
ing his law degree. He then began to practice law
privately while serving as assistant to the general
counsel of the Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Co.
At the time of his death, Mehler was associated
with Mehler, Frantz, Conlon, Knapp, Phelan &
Varnum. He also lectured in law at George
Washington University. Mehler was a jazz musi-
cian during the 1940s and 1950s, playing the sax-
ophone and leading two bands, the Southern Col-
legians and Just Some Notes of Jazz. He was a
member of Delta Theta Phi legal fraternity and
the antitrust section of the American Bar Associa-
tion. He also was a member of St. John’s Catholic
Church in McLean, Va.

1970

Steven Thomas Mahaffey, president of Citizens
Holding Co. in Columbus, Ohio, died Feb. 5,
1987. Mahaffey served as a second lieutenant at
Fort Lewis, Wash., immediately after graduating
from W&L. Before joining the investments com-
pany Citizens Holding, he worked as regional
manager for Ashland Oil Co. and was responsi-
ble for reviewing state and local government ac-
tivities in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, and
North and South Dakota.

1972

William Francis Judge, senior vice president of
Children’s Television Workshop in New York Ci-
ty, died Sept. 9, 1987. After earning his
undergraduate and law degrees from W&L, he
passed the New York State Bar examination and
became a licensing manager for Children’s Televi-
sion Workshop. After several years, he became
director of European Operations for Cadence
Corp. (Marvel Comics), managing 20 merchandis-
ing and publishing agents. In 1980, he rejoined
Children’s Television Workshop and was respon-
sible for initiating and licensing Sesame Street in
foreign countries. He was promoted to a vice
presidency and later became senior vice president.

1976

William Francis Judge (See 1972).

Friends
Gardner Watson Henderson died Dec. 31, 1987,
at his home in Lexington at the age of 80. He was
employed as a chauffeur for many years by W&L
President Francis P. Gaines.

 

W&L 39

 

 

 

 

t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Otome eg

 

 

 

 

 

     

nice Te OO
Ra A Sate ote

     
     

i

 

 

   

 

   

 

 

simon-pure amateur athletes and I wouldn’t have
it any 0 way.

But I don’t like the opposite ‘extreme on
scheduling either.

In the same issue an article is cited from a re-
nt U.S. News & World Report issue ranking
W&L among national liberal arts colleges. This
represents ‘‘a shift (from the previous category)
more accurately reflects ine. pee” anSHIERIHIONS .

a Unt )

 

 

 

  

‘a

      
    
 
 

glaring oversight i in the
Magazine ina Class

 

 
      

   
 
 

85L, now an attorney
of the prestigious

     
 
 

 
 
   
    
   
 
      

attracting ‘the ‘better | prospect, “also, if he/she i is
aware that we are in the same class—athletically
as well as academically—as Bowdoin, Wesleyan,

 

Le vehigh, a school with a pra oral
courages a partne a between its alumni and the
athletic der ( attr ct quality student
athletes to ~ ee

 

 

      
 
    
  
  
 
  

, put his head down,
id was heard until he
his great head, and
s show of emotion by a man.
edly a Hamlet hundreds of

 

Cohan ‘Ohio

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1988 Summer Programs

 

Programs for Business:
Institute for Executives June 12-22
Institute for Family Business June 26-30

Alumni Colleges:

Alumni College in France April 18-May 2
‘‘Christ and Cultures”’ July 3-9
**The Civil War’’ July 10-16
‘‘Europe and the End of Empire’’ July 17-23
Alumni College in Colorado August 13-19

Youth Programs:
Summer Scholars ’88 July 3-29
Sport Camps in Basketball,
Aquatics, Lacrosse, and Soccer

For further information contact:
Robert Fure, Director
Office of Summer Programs
(703) 463-8723

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Non-Profit Org.
U.S. Postage
PAID
Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

Washington and Lee music professor Robert Stewart rehearses the Stradivari Quartet
for a premier performance of Stewart’s Quartet No. 5. The performance was part
of A Festival of New American Music, a two-day event that brought several nationally
known composers and artists to Washington and Lee to honor Stewart who will retire
in June. Details are on page 22.

 

adi pee Fe
ks let de ii

