se

 

 

 

  
 
 

The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and L

September/October 1

 

 

 

 

 

KN
y / \/ eee f \/ .
RXXN KXX /N

MEMBERS OF the Class of ’88 line
the walk between Lee Chapel and
Washington Hall as the academic
procession marches to the opening
convocation. Held on the first day of
classes for the 1987-88 academic
year, the convocation represented the
renewal of an opening day tradition
that had not been held in almost two
decades. In a letter inviting the
seniors to attend, President John D.
Wilson wrote: ‘‘The faculty believe
that it is entirely fitting to begin the
new year by celebrating the unity of

 

the class that, nine months later, will
be graduated from the University. It
is to the seniors we inevitably look
for leadership and strength in
preserving the traditions and values
of Washington and Lee.’’ The con-
vocation featured a keynote address
by Michael Kammen, the Newton C.
Farr Professor of American History
and Culture at Cornell University. A
noted historian of the early national
period, Kammen gave an address
titled: ‘‘Personal Liberty and the
American Dream.”’

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 62, Number 5, October 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce HARRIS, Assistant Editor

BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor

ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
Patrick HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JOHN W. Fo.Lsom, ’73, President
Columbia, S.C.

WayYNE D. McGrew Jp., 52, Vice President
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, Treasurer
New Orleans, La.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR Jr., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

W. NatT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFourR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

C. HowarD CapPITo, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

CLAY T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.

JAMES M. JENNINGS JrR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JoHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

THoMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

EUGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.

JOHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.

CHESTER T. SMITH JrR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

WARREN A. STEPHENS, 779
Little Rock, Ark.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 57
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

 

 

Why Teach?

 

Maximizing Human Capital

 

Pass It On

 

Will the Constitution Survive?

 

14

Flavorful Artifacts

 

18

A Search for Justice

 

23

The W&L Gazette

 

26

Alumni News

 

28

Class Notes

 

35

In Memoriam

 

36

And Furthermore

 

37

Gifts from the W&L Bookstore

 

On the Cover: University photographer W. Patrick Hinely, ’73,
captures a familiar view: the Colonnade as it is seen from the doors
of Lee Chapel. |

2

W&L

 

Teach:

L.. May the Commonwealth of Virginia paid tribute to
13 teachers from its colleges and universities.

Chosen from among 108 candidates, the 13 faculty
members were honored for their contributions to teaching,
research, or public service by being named the recipients of
Outstanding Faculty Awards—the first such awards given
under the program established by the 1986 Virginia General
Assembly. ?

Two of those 13 winners were Washington and Lee
professors—Philip L. Cline, professor of administration
and economics, and Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology.

During the ceremony, at which Gov. Gerald L. Baliles
presented Cline, Jarrard, and their fellow winners with the
awards, the chairman of Virginia’s Council of Higher Educa-
tion, Stanley E. Harrison, said that the awards recognize
people who ‘‘make education come alive in classrooms across
the Commonwealth.’’

Based on the testimony of their current and former
students, it is clear that Cline and Jarrard have indeed made
education come alive in Washington and Lee’s classrooms.

That is the reason we chose to ask them to share why it
is they do what they do. Not how they do it necessarily. But
why. Why teach?

 

Maximizing Human Capital

 

Or How to Bake a Birthday Cake

 

favorite tactic of students who find

themselves stumped on a difficult

test question is to restate the ques-
tion in such a way that they can answer it
with great facility. For example, suppose
someone were to ask you ‘‘Why do we
celebrate birthdays?’’ You might respond
that there is almost always a cake at a birth-
day celebration, and then go on to explain
how to bake a cake.

This time-tested strategy for dealing with
one’s Own ignorance was invented by aspir-
ing Ph.D. graduate students facing
Preliminary Examinations. It also has great
appeal for me, however, as I approach this
assignment.

 

Phil Cline is a 1967 graduate of Washington and
Lee. He received M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from
Oklahoma State University. He returned to his
alma mater in 1975. He has served as a consul-
tant for the United Nations, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture, and many private companies.

By Philip L. Cline

Professor of Administration and Economics

I don’t particularly relish the thought of
trying to explain why I teach. (Why do I love
my dog?) So, rather than attempting to
answer the question ‘‘Why teach?’’ I am go-
ing to write about some of the people-and-
things-in-the-world I encounter as a faculty
member at Washington and Lee and the sorts
of activities in which it is my fortune to par-
ticipate. Then you can draw your own con-
clusions about why I do it.

The resource that I bring to my job is
sometimes referred to by economists as
‘‘human capital.’’ It’s a stock of technical
knowledge and skills. As with any capital
stock, it has to be maintained. And if it is
to expand over time, additional net in-
vestments must be made.

I spend a good bit of my time trying to
maintain my proficiency in the subjects I
teach. For the most part this means study-
ing the current professional journals in my
areas. Another way I stay abreast of changes

is by attending regional and national
meetings of professional organizations.
These meetings are typically organized
around sessions at which people with similar
research interests present papers on their re-
cent findings, which are then discussed by
others in attendance. Those of us who are
still speaking to one another at the end of
the session then go out to eat and celebrate
our erudition.

nother large chunk of my time is

spent maintaining the content of the

four courses I teach. Each one meets
about three hours per week for 12 weeks for
a total of 36 contact hours during the term.
From one offering of a given course to the
next time I offer it, the content of about 80
percent of those 36 slots will not change
significantly. Perhaps all that’s required of
me to get these meetings ready to go for a
new term is to replace some outdated

W&L 3

 

newspaper articles with more current ones.

But typically the materials for seven or
eight of the 36 contact hours will need ma-
jor surgery. There are several reasons why
I might feel it necessary to rework part of
a course. Sometimes the impetus comes from
an external entity: the changing whims of
Congress and the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors immediately come to mind. Other
times the agent of change is internal. Maybe
I decide to write a new sequence of
homework problems on time series
forecasting because the old ones don’t take
advantage of some newly available computer
techniques; or I might become convinced
from my study of the literature that the
predictive power of the rational-expectations
theory is so poor that this once popular
theory no longer warrants class time. Still
other times I decide to rework or eliminate
a topic for no better reason than that I’ve
become bored with it.

So much for maintaining the capital
stock. What about adding to it? Might it be
that over time, forces could conspire to make
it necessary for a teacher to learn a whole
new (though related) area? And then develop
the curriculum to support it? That’s been the
case for me and I’ve seen it happen for a
number of my colleagues, too. My own op-
portunity is coming about courtesy of the
semiconductor and the attendant evolution
in the business world, from data processing
to information processing.

I’m going to resist the temptation to share
with you all that I learned this summer at the
American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of
Business (AACSB) Summer Institute on
Management Information Systems—in ad-
dition to memorizing that name, I mean.
Let’s just say that many people (including
AACSB, the only recognized business school
accrediting agency) think that certain ad-
vances in computer technology have spawn-
ed a need for undergraduate business schools
to adapt in the fashion that best suits the cur-
ricular goals of each institution.

W&L responded by making it possible
for me to spend five weeks at the University
of Minnesota studying this new (to us) area
and how to teach it. The fellowship of the
dorm, dining hall cafeterias, classes till 9:30
p.m. and on Saturdays, homework, tests: I’d
forgotten how good life could be. We com-
plained. But the fact remains that I, along
with 47 other faculty people from all over
the country and Canada, participated in a
very intense learning experience.

As we continue with this idea of adding
to one’s stock of human capital, let us ask:
what else besides this formal education
would a person need in order to be an effec-
tive teacher of management information

4 W&L

systems? Right. Hands-on experience. Get
out in the business world and see how
managers are actually using this new
technology to accomplish the strategic and
competitive objectives of their companies.
Find out what it’s like to design and install
a complex system. See if the flattening of the
organization is really taking place. Try to
determine how employees feel about the way
their jobs are changing as a result of end-user
computing. Ask other hard questions that
tend to get overlooked in a normal classroom
setting.

In order to have some of these ex-
periences and ask some of these questions,
I applied for and was awarded a leave of

teachers. If you follow through on this line
of reasoning, you must necessarily conclude
that research and teaching are mutually ex-
clusive activities in the production of
education.

I don’t believe that’s the case. I believe
research and teaching are synergetic ac-
tivities. So I try to keep one or more research
projects going, though I’m a very un-
disciplined researcher and I’m uncommitted
in that I’ve never really found an area in
which I wanted to specialize.

(Actually, I’m pretty good at asking in-
teresting research questions and I’m quite
happy to do enough data excavation to
satisfy myself that I know an answer. But

 

absence for this winter term. Buck Ogilvie,
a Trustee of Washington and Lee and ex-
ecutive vice president of Excalibur Inc., has
invited me to come to Houston this winter
and watch him, his people, and their
customers in action. Excalibur does analysis,
design, and implementation of management
information systems for the energy industry.
Buck has already written a six-page syllabus
for my time in Houston, and I am looking
forward to working with him on this very ex-
citing project.

Between this opportunity and my train-
ing at the AACSB Institute, I am confident
that I will be able to recommend a reasonable
way for us to integrate this new area of
management information systems into the
curriculum at W&L. I am also confident that
my ‘‘stock of human capital’’ will be greater
at the end of this academic year than it was
at the beginning.

i et’s think now about the degree that
serves as a union card for teachers in
one of my areas: the Ph.D. degree,

Philosophiae Doctor. You cannot get

tenured at any self-respecting institution

these days without this (or an equivalent) ter-
minal degree. What this degree means is that
you have demonstrated an ability to produce
and a tolerance for original research.

Yet, it is not uncommon these days for
editorial writers and social philosophers to
deride university researchers as poor

I’m terrible about following through and
putting my findings in publishable form.
Writing is very difficult for me, and I’ve
never been very good at it. I think this per-
sonal shortcoming is probably responsible
for the super-critical way I evaluate my
students’ written efforts. I’m keenly aware
of how important it is for them to sharpen
their writing skills and develop professional
standards for their writing. I’m still work-
ing on it myself.)

Another responsibility that goes with a
faculty position at Washington and Lee is
euphemistically called ‘‘University service.”’
This is administrationese and most often
translates as ‘‘committee work.’’ In a global
context, W&L has always been blessed with
a bountiful supply of standing and ad hoc
committees. This is due in no small way to
the faculty’s penchant for being intimately
involved in everything from setting long-run
institutional goals to laying down rules for
Wednesday night parties.

I complain about the time I spend doing
committee work because it seems at first
blush to be an incredibly inefficient use of
scarce resources. But if you press me on it,
I will admit that I wouldn’t have it any other
way.

The faculty share the responsibility for
defining the environment in which we will
teach and our students will study. If that
lofty observation leaves you cold, how about
the idea that (since almost all our commit-

 

tees have student representation) it’s a good
way to train students in trench warfare? Sell-
ing one’s position to ‘‘superiors,’’ the art of
compromise, when to push and when to back
off: all these group dynamics are on
shameless display at many of the committee
meetings I attend.

An important part of my job is that of
faculty adviser. This involves counseling my
advisees on course selection and other
academic matters, writing letters of recom-
mendation for students looking for summer
and full-time positions, and just generally be-
ing available to chat about whatever. Some
students take full advantage of the oppor-
tunity to develop a strong relationship with
their faculty adviser (and of course other
faculty members, too). But too many
students venture into a faculty office only
when it’s absolutely necessary. That’s a
shame. The students who go up on the hill
only to attend class are missing a lot of what
W&L is about.

hen all is said and done, I go to

bed feeling good or bad about

my performance as a faculty
member based on how well I taught that day.
Not necessarily based just on how well the
lectures that seemed so elegant the night
before or the questions I asked were receiv-
ed, or how profound my responses were to
the questions I was asked in class. Those are
certainly very important measures of how
I’ve done, and after 12 years I still get ner-
vous before every class. After all, it’s one of
the most visible of the ‘‘outputs’’ I produce,
and no matter how well I think I’m prepared
there are still too many days when I trip all
over myself and the students’ ideas.

But the quality of time spent in class is
not the only consideration. All the things I’ve
mentioned above—preparing lectures and
meaningful assignments, reading and re-
searching in my academic areas, exploring
new areas, having input into University
policy, advising students—are part of
teaching at W&L. Sometimes it takes only
one brief but special conversation with a cur-
rent or former student or a colleague to make
me feel good about the day.

The book that dominated The New York
Times nonfiction best-seller list this summer
was The Closing of the American Mind by
Allan Bloom, a professor at the University
of Chicago. In it, Bloom laments the current
generation of college students, particularly
those at elite universities. While he finds
most college students likeable, Bloom thinks
**[tloday’s select students . . . are so much
slacker intellectually, that they make their
predecessors look like prodigies of culture.”’

Why are these students so uninterested

 

in learning more and why do they have so
little idea how to go about it? Why are they
unable to work out their own morality and
philosophy of what life should be about?
Why do they expect so much when they are
willing to invest so little? According to Pro-
fessor Bloom, we have the student radicals
of the 1960s, the wimps of the campus who
acquiesced to those radicals’ curricular
demands, rock music, and feminists to thank
for the current state of affairs in higher
education. :

My own perception of today’s Wash-
ington and Lee students is that they are open
to criticism. I’m not certain they all ap-
preciate the nature of the rewards that ac-

crue to those who pursue academic attain-
ment. I have not learned much of late from
the wisdom and analysis of my Principles of
Economics students (though I have learned
a great deal about the world from them). At
times they do seem unsystematic and un-
motivated and unorganized, and they seem
far too quick to call ‘‘foul.’’

Whether these and certain other
academic and social shortcomings can be at-
tributed to Professor Bloom’s hypothesized
causal variables I do not know. I tend to
think that it means W&L students resemble
people. I don’t find that particularly distress-
ing. It just means that we need to do a little
more work.

W&L 5

Pass It On

 

Hoping to Make a Difference at the Choice Points

 

W&L

By Leonard E. Jarrard
Professor of Psychology

 

ccasionally a student will ask me

why I teach. It seems such a simple

question: ‘‘Why do you teach?’’
And yet, I invariably have trouble giving a
satisfactory answer.

Asking ‘‘Why do you teach?”’ is like ask-
ing ‘‘Why are you in business?’’ or ‘‘Why
are you a psychiatrist?’’ or ‘‘Why are you
a bus driver?’’ The reasons are often quite
personal, and most of us are reluctant to talk
about ourselves. Perhaps I can provide a bet-
ter answer, at least a more satisfactory
answer, to this question if I have to write it
down.

I know of few in education who decided
at an early age that they wanted to spend
their lives teaching. I was not one of those
few. In my case it just happened. And in
retrospect I feel certain I went into academia
because of individual teachers I had along
the way, people who forced me to try to
realize my potential. At the crucial choice
points (as psychologists like to call them), I
seemed to be around understanding in-
dividuals who provided me with the en-
couragement I needed.

One of those choice points came when I
decided to go to college in the first place, opt-
ing to enter Baylor University rather than
pursuing a career as a jazz musician in dance
bands. I must admit that I questioned that
decision now and again during the 5% years
of college, particularly each time I changed
majors. I went from music to business to
geology to chemistry and, finally, to
psychology. (It’s interesting how students
who are having trouble deciding on a major
respond when I confess my own indecision
to them. They are surprised, but I think they
take some comfort in knowing one of their
teachers had similar problems.)

At another of my choice points, it was
a psychology professor at Baylor
University—a professor, incidentally, who
had the reputation of being a terrible
‘‘teacher’’ but who was nonetheless a

 

Len Jarrard received his bachelor’s degree from
Baylor University and his master’s and doctorate
from Carnegie Tech. He joined the W&L faculty
in 1959, left in 1965 for six years, and returned
in 1971. For the past 20 years his groundbreaking
research on the role of the hippocampus and brain
control of memory has been funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation.

 

wonderful individual—who convinced me I
should consider going to graduate school and
who helped me find my way into the
graduate program at Carnegie Tech.

Several years later in graduate school I
encountered another of those choice points.
Again it was a professor who gave me en-
couragement at an especially difficult period,
when continuing beyond a master’s degree
seemed utterly impossible.

Then there was the provost at Carnegie
Tech, a distinguished old gentleman, who
convinced me that if I was at all interested
in teaching, I should accept as a first posi-
tion the job I had been offered at
Washington and Lee, rather than the offer
in industry—an offer that paid twice the
salary.

It takes experiences like these to make it
obvious what an impact a teacher can have
on the lives of others. And whenever I make
a list of reasons why I have become a teacher,
the reward that I get when I help students
work through the choice points in their lives
is high on that list.

ut what about ‘‘teaching’’—that is,

the actual act of standing in front of

a classroom full of students? I do en-
joy teaching the introductory course in
psychology, although I don’t consider myself
a brilliant lecturer like some others I have
known. There is something quite special
about being able to expose bright, young
students to an area of knowledge most of
them are encountering for the first time—to
be able to tell them about the exciting ad-
vances that are being made in the field and
how these advances help us better understand
our own behavior, and to convey the excite-
ment that accompanies trying to add to what
is known through research.

To be effective in the classroom, teachers
must constantly work to keep up with their
field. This requires reading and study and,
in most cases, an active involvement in
research. Then, too, it is remarkable how
much we who teach can and do learn from
our own students.

There are almost as many different styles
of teaching as there are individual teachers,
of course. For some, the purpose of lectur-
ing is to present difficult, complex material
so that students can understand it; for them,
teaching is viewed as passing on information.
I once had a professor who claimed that he
taught ‘‘wisdom.’’

For myself, I do present complex
material. But I especially concentrate on try-
ing to motivate the students, to present the
material in such a way that the students
become genuinely interested in the area and
develop a desire to study the books and ar-

ticles that are assigned. I feel that I am par-
ticularly successful when students are in-
terested enough to go beyond what has been
assigned.

Of course, there are potential problems
associated with my attempts at motivating
students through my lectures rather than
merely passing along information. I will, for
instance, occasionally have a student com-
plain that he or she has trouble taking notes
in my classes; some students, it seems, are
just too accustomed to taking copious notes
and writing down everything that is said in
a lecture.

The fact that I can approach my classes
in this way is something else I enjoy about
teaching. This has to do with the freedom

meaningful research. Institutions of higher
learning are primarily concerned with
knowledge. They deal with what is known,
pass on information to those who are com-
ing along, and add to what is known. It is
through research that this last function is ac-
complished, that new knowledge is added,
and I particularly delight in being involved
in that endeavor.

To experience the excitement of doing
research, you do not have to make a major
discovery such as finding out how memories
are stored in the brain. Rather, it is sufficient
to know that you have discovered things that
were never known before. You then have the
satisfaction of knowing you have contributed
something new; you have added to the

 

that we teachers are allowed in approaching -

our courses. Within broad limits, a teacher
can teach in the way he or she feels will be
most effective. I can try different things; I
can vary the way a course is taught—I can,
in short, experiment. That is important for
me.

Just as in the laboratory, some changes
bring positive results, while others can end
in near-disaster. Then, too, even if you try
to teach a course in exactly the same way
from one year to the next, each group of
students will make it different. The interac-
tion of students with one another and with
the teacher makes each class unique. Indeed,
the presence of a single individual can have
a dramatic effect on the whole.

The different mix can mean very dif-
ferent things. Teaching some classes can best
be described as fun, while teaching the very
same material to a different class can be try-
ing, to say the least. When I meet some
classes on the last day of a semester, I often
feel a little sad, realizing that this group will
never get together again in the same way.
Certainly, one thing I do like about teaching
is the variety of experiences I have in the
classroom.

hough I enjoy teaching large lecture
courses, perhaps my greatest satisfac-
tion comes from helping interested
students become involved in doing original,

broader world of knowledge.

I find that many bright, curious
undergraduates are especially eager to get in-
volved in research. They become terribly ex-
cited knowing they are doing something that
has never been done before, something that
is undeniably their own. They will spend a
tremendous amount of time working on a
project for which there is neither grade nor
money.

In some ways I have gotten more pleasure
working on research with undergraduates
than with graduate students, as I once did
at Carnegie Mellon. The difference is in the
undergraduates’ unabashed enthusiasm,
their fresh ideas, their willingness to try for
the ‘‘long shots.’’ Graduate students, on the
other hand, are just under too much pressure
to produce to approach their work in this
same way.

In the psychology department at
Washington and Lee, we think it is impor-
tant that our majors be exposed to research,
and we have a number of courses designed
to get students involved.

In addition to the regular course work,
each summer I hire two to three of our
undergraduate students to work full time in
the laboratory on my own research, which
is sponsored by the National Science
Foundation.

There, in the laboratory, a teacher can
work especially closely with his or her

W&L 7

 

students and can come to know them on a
much different level. It is always interesting
and rewarding to share the feeling of ac-
complishment students have when they com-
plete a project and when they describe what
they have done and what they have found
to others, which is something our students
often do by presenting papers to the Virginia
Academy of Science each spring.

One of the very real rewards of teaching,
though, comes from seeing former students
continue on to successful careers. Natural-
ly, Iam pleased when an outstanding student
chooses to pursue further study in my own
field, but I try not to proselytize. It would
be a disservice to try to convince promising
individuals to follow in a particular direction,
only to have them discover later they have
made a mistake.

Most of the students who do research in
our laboratory do move on to postbac-
calaureate studies in graduate or medical
school. But frequently a student will discover
that he or she really does not like research,
and I think that’s fine. At least, those
students will know more about science,
about how research is done. And whatever
they choose to do or wherever they choose
to go, they will, I hope, take with them an

8 W&L

Jarrard works in his laboratory with Kelly Shifflett, 90, one of the undergraduates w

ae BRN

appreciation of the value of trying to con-
tribute to knowledge.

here are other reasons why I enjoy

teaching. The academic calendar is

one of those reasons. The nine
months of the school year are frantic—
classes to prepare for and teach, respon-
sibilities as an adviser, committee meetings,
and administrative duties.

Too, there are such essential activities as
working in the laboratory, writing, review-
ing research proposals and articles, con-
sulting, and attending and participating in
professional meetings. It is a constant strug-
gle to juggle your time to keep up with
everything.

Suddenly, the academic year ends, sum-
mer begins, and everything changes drastical-
ly. During the summer you can turn your
full-time efforts to such professional ac-
tivities as research, reading, and writing.
There is even time to relax with the family.
The change is welcome, and at the beginning
of the summer you are almost convinced that
the three best things about teaching are June,
July, and August.

As the end of August approaches,
however, the summer routine begins to pale,

ho assist on Jarrard’s research during the summer.

     

the first few students begin to appear on
campus, and suddenly it is time to prepare
anew for the beginning of classes. It is easy
to get caught up in the enthusiasm shown by
students at the beginning of a school year.
Older students return after spending the sum-
mer thinking and planning their future, and
they are eager to get on with it. First-year
students are initially unsure of themselves,
anxious, and very serious about the challenge
that awaits them. The relaxed summer is a
thing of the past, but, again, the change is
welcome.

As is apparent, ‘‘teaching’’—particularly
teaching at one of the nation’s better colleges
like Washington and Lee—involves much,
much more than standing in front of a
classroom. Maybe that is what makes
answering the question ‘‘Why do you
teach?”’ so difficult.

I often think of those special teachers I
had along the way, those people who so in-
fluenced my life and the lives of others. I
think now I have a better understanding of
why they chose the academic life. I ap-
preciate more fully now the nature and ex-
tent of their contributions.

And for me, it is important to try, as best
I can, to ‘‘pass it on.”’

 

The

Constitution:
Will It Survive?

By L. H. LaRue

Professor of Law

many of our fellow citizens ask; since there are so many who
are asking it, I will take it as my starting place. The question
is puzzling, since it does not fit well with another common saying
about our Constitution: we often say that ours is a living constitu-
tion, which has adapted to change. I will start by saying why I
think that the question and the common saying do not fit together.
If our Constitution is alive and adapts to new circumstances,
then it has changed. If the Constitution has changed, then
something old has fallen away, and something new has come to
be. And the old that has fallen away has not survived. In other
words, parts of the Constitution have survived, but parts have not.
If we have a constitution that is alive, it is a constitution that
changes. Life entails change. When there is change, something gets
left behind and does not survive. But there is also continuity;
something survives.

| n the title to this essay, I ask a question that I have heard

 

L. H. LaRue was born in a
“company town”? (coal mining) in
West Virginia. He took his
undergraduate degree from
Washington and Lee (1959) and his
law degree from Harvard. He has
been a trial attorney with the U.S.
Marine Corps and the U.S. Justice
Department. He joined the facul-
ty of the W&L law school in 1967
and was named director of the
Frances Lewis Law Center in 1985.
He has two books due out late this
year. One is an examination of the
Watergate affair and the other is titled Some Advice for Begin-
ning the Study of Law. This article has been adapted from
a lecture that Professor LaRue delivered to a session of the
Washington and Lee Alumni College in July.

 

 

 

 

Consequently, I think that the question we have heard so often
is the wrong question. We ought not ask a broad global question
such as: will the Constitution survive? We should ask more nar-
row, more particular questions: what parts of the Constitution are
likely to survive? And, of course, we should ask: what parts do
we want to survive?

I am confident that I can make a few predictions about what
will survive and what won’t. For example, I am confident that our
vocabulary and our concepts of constitutionalism will survive well
into the next century.

This prediction is reasonably solid because we know that
language is relatively conservative, that language changes rather
slowly. Interestingly enough, I have read that the pace of change
in language is slower now than it was 500 years ago; our modern
technology of printing, of the media, and of universal education
has standardized language to a degree that was formerly
unthinkable.

Moreover, we have a single document, and it establishes a
canonical vocabulary. The document establishes a vocabulary, and
we use these words to talk about our political institutions and our
political problems. The document has a language of citizen,
legislative, executive, and so forth. These words, together with such
phrases as ‘‘due process’’ and ‘‘equal protection,’’ are part of
everyone’s vocabulary. I am willing to predict, and quite confident-
ly so, that this vocabulary will survive.

Of course, it is also probable that the meanings of some of these
words will shift in unpredictable ways. Consequently, this particular
prediction may not be very comforting.

One of the things that the Constitution does is allocate political
power. The Constitution creates three departments of government,
and it allocates power among them. This allocation of power will
probably survive, and I confess that I am rather unhappy about
this prospect.

As I look at the current scene in Washington and watch our
scheme of separation and allocation of power in operation, I am

W&L

9

 

not pleased. All too often, it seems as though we have three separate
governments in Washington, and not three departments of a single
government. We seem to be unable to generate a coherent economic
policy. (And the same defects are true of defense policy and foreign
affairs.) The political structure of power allocation, the system of
power, makes it extraordinarily difficult to deal with these prob-
lems. One often hears praise of the system for the good that it pro-
duces, but I think that we also need to hear blame of the system
for the bad that it produces.

Nonetheless, I predict that it will survive, and I do so because
I think that the vested interests have too great a stake in its con-
tinued existence. People who have power, and people who benefit
from the existing structure of power, are never interested in giv-
ing up their power. But perhaps you should not worry about this
prediction. My views are heretical, and I am only an amateur in
political science. So let me move on to a topic on which I am sup-
posedly an expert.

nother thing that our Constitution does is establish a

scheme of rights and liberties. To many people, this is the

Constitution. In the popular imagination, the phrase ‘‘they
can’t do that to me’’ is the idiom of constitutional law. Individual
autonomy, individual rights, individual liberty—one can say it in
many different ways, but the idea that America and freedom and
the Constitution go together is deep in our culture. We say that
America stands for freedom and that freedom is guaranteed by
the Constitution.

I am a teacher of constitutional law, and the legal content of
our rights and liberties is one of the things that I teach. I believe
that I can make a prediction about the future of our constitutional
rights. They will be different in the future than they are today.
Let me try to explain why.

When we say that the Constitution guarantees our freedom,
we have to face up to a problem, which is, how does it do it? The
piece of paper alone can’t do it; there has to be some way of car-
rying the paper into the world. In other words, there has to be
some institutional mechanism.

Here in the United States, we have chosen the mechanism of
law, and consequently, the constitution of freedom is supposed
to be the constitutional law of freedom. Constitutional law replaces
the Constitution per se, and it does so via the institution known
as judicial review; judges are supposed to guarantee our freedom.
This institutional solution has its good points and its bad points;
it is also generally misunderstood.

The most potent misunderstanding is that if our rights are
guaranteed by law, then our rights cannot be taken away from us.
If constitutional law, and not mere politics, is the foundation, then
we have built the house of liberty on rock, not sand. But it ain’t
necessarily so. If you wish to understand why not, you need to
go back to the starting point, which is John Marshall and Mar-
bury v. Madison.

Everyone has heard of Marbury v. Madison. It is one of the
most famous cases in constitutional law, and it is justly regarded
as the very foundation of that law. In that case, John Marshall
declared that judges had the right to hold acts of Congress un-
constitutional and refuse to enforce them. For years now, I have
taught this case to law students, and for years, one of my stan-
dard questions has been to ask students to assess the reasons that
Marshall advances for this claim of power.

I ask a question something like this: was John Marshall right?
In response, the students come up with reasons, lots of reasons,
but I always play the professor’s game and ask them if they are
coming up with John Marshall’s reasons, or their own reasons.

10 W&L

Of course, they have come up with their own; I promise to get
back to the reasons that they have advanced, but urge them to look
at John Marshall’s reasons, to assess what Marshall has said, and
to say whether he has a good argument. It always works out the
same; there is one single passage that they pick out as containing
Marshall’s best argument.

John Marshall begins by drawing a dichotomy. He begins as
follows:

It is a proposition too plain to be contested, that the constitution

controls any legislative act repugnant to it; or, that the legislature

may alter the constitution by an ordinary act.
Having established these two alternatives, he then drives a strong
wedge between them; he next says that there is no middle ground,
and he draws a conclusion:

Between these alternatives there is no middle ground. The constitu-

tion is either a superior, paramount law, unchangeable by ordinary

means, or it is on a level with ordinary legislative acts, and like other
acts, is alterable when the legislature shall please to alter it.

But there is a fallacy in the argument, in that Marshall leaves
out a crucial fact. It is true, as Marshall says, that if the Congress
has the final say, then the Congress can change the Constitution
by the ordinary act of passing a statute. But it is also true, and
Marshall does not say this, that if the judges have the final say,
then the judges can change the Constitution by the ordinary act
of deciding a case. And so we can generalize as follows: whoever
has the final say has the power to change the Constitution, and
those who change the Constitution can do so by whatever procedure
(passing a statute, deciding a case) that they use to have their say.

 

The basic question is: who has the final say on what the Con-
stitution means? Speaking only for myself, I would like to say the
people. But that is one of those Jeffersonian arguments, and so
I have to admit that I am not merely a Jeffersonian, but something
worse: I am a populist, and indeed, a radical populist. So let me
waive the argument from popular democracy; I will rest on a sim-
ple analytical and logical observation. It is clear enough that
whoever has the final say can change the Constitution. If the judges
have the final say, they can change the Constitution; if the Con-
gress has the final say, it can change the Constitution. Further-
more, we have had changes, and it is good to remind ourselves
of how many changes the judges have made.

think there is nothing controversial about the proposition
that we have had changes in our constitutional law; everyone
concedes that. Any particular description, however, is con-
troversial; a description about the original meaning, the original
intent, is especially controversial. I shall describe what I believe
to be the original understanding of the Bill of Rights and the Civil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

piltes Fis?

j j fi 4
Hee

vot}
ae éy)

ti

This engraving,
showing the way
delegates to the
Constitutional Con-
vention might have
appeared in
Philadelphia, has
been attributed to
Elkanah Tisdale,
ca. 1823.

 

 

War Amendments, but you should be aware that my description
does not represent a scholarly consensus. Scholars agree that these
parts of the document are interpreted differently now than they
used to be; there is consensus on that fact. But there is not a solid
consensus on the starting place, on the interpretation of the original.
The problem is that the historical evidence is rather muddy, but
at any rate, let me risk it.

The two places in the Constitution that most people think of
when they think about rights are the Bill of Rights and the Four-
teenth Amendment. These are the two texts that are considered
most important; these are the texts that specify our rights and liber-
ties; these are the rights that judicial review claims to preserve. So
let us review some of the changes.

The Bill of Rights

As the focus for discussing the Bill of Rights, I would like to
select a rather curious trinity: the jury, freedom of speech, and
citizen power. Most people, I think, would start their outline of
the Bill of Rights rather differently. I do, however, have a good
reason for constructing this rather odd list.

My point is that the Bill of Rights is not a detailed code; in-
deed, it is rather short. Consequently, it is written to mark out
a few major points, and more is left unstated than is stated. There
is a background context, a vast body of law, and the Bill of Rights
picks out a few features of this background to emphasize. The
authors understood that some of this background was bound to
change, but how much? The problem here is that if one changes
too much of the background, then the foreground no longer works
in the same way. My trinity of the jury, freedom of speech, and
citizen power is rather illuminating in showing how much we have
changed.

My picture of the background goes something like this.
Originally, the jury was an extremely powerful institution. The
American jury was not only final on the facts of a case, it also
had the final power to say what the law was. In England, this had
also been true from about 1670 to 1760, but Lord Mansfield in
England had set about to destroy the jury’s power, and he had
succeeded. Here in America, Lord Mansfield was reviled and abus-
ed for introducing these changes into the law, especially since it
had been done by judicial fiat.

Furthermore, the times were different in another way that was
extremely important. There was no professional police force; of
course, there were sheriffs and constables, but they were few in
number. Whenever force was needed, it was necessary to call out
the posse or the militia, and of course, the citizenry was armed,
and so it had the instruments of power that were needed for the
application of force. Not only was the citizenry armed, it was
understood that it could not be disarmed.

In this context, freedom of speech was the device by which one
could call upon one’s neighbors and convince them of the justice
of one’s cause. The balance of power between citizens and officials
was fairly even. Law enforcement depended upon citizen coopera-
tion, to some extent upon citizen power, and free speech was the
gear that made the machine turn.

But almost none of this is true anymore. In the 19th century,
American judges followed the example of Lord Mansfield, despite

the original understanding, and took away the jury’s power over

the law; they also sharply limited the jury’s power over the facts.
The jury’s power over the facts is still considerable; if a jury has
to resolve credibility questions, and thus believe one witness in-
stead of another, judges do not interfere. However, when a jury
has to resolve questions of circumstantial evidence, and thus decide

W&L ii

 

 

what types of inferences can be drawn from the circumstances,
judges do interfere; judges reject jury verdicts when they deem them
unreasonable.

The same century saw the development of the injunction in equi-
ty, which bypassed the jury altogether. For example, there was civil
strife in the 19th century that arose from the struggles between labor
and capital. Judges were unwilling to leave these problems of law
and order to the criminal trial and the jury; the judges intervened,
issued orders, treated disobedience as contempt of court, and im-
posed fines and imprisonment without trial by jury. Furthermore,
professional police forces were developed as cities grew and became
more dangerous. The technology of weaponry changed, and the
balance of power between the officials and the citizenry began to
shift. And we can add to this the development of limitations on
the right to bear arms.

Of course, it is perfectly reasonable to believe that all of these
changes in the Bill of Rights were good. I don’t wish to argue pro
or con on that today, although I do of course have opinions. I
merely wish to insist upon the fact that there have been changes.

The Fourteenth Amendment

The Civil War was a great watershed in American constitutional
law, but I will limit myself to some comments about the Fourteenth
Amendment. The most famous clauses of that amendment are the
privileges and immunities clause, the due process clause, and the
equal protection clause.

Originally, the citizenship provisions were thought to be the
most important parts of Section 1 of the XIVth. Not only were
blacks declared to be citizens, in direct opposition to Dred Scott,
but the concept of citizenship itself was redefined. National and
state citizenship were intended to be inseparable, the fundamental
rights of the Bill of Rights were stated in the debates to be the in-
cidents of citizenship, and these rights were now to be good against
the states as well as against the nation.

Furthermore, two duties were imposed upon the states, one
negative and one positive. The negative duty is contained in the
due process clause; whenever the state acts to deprive individuals
of their rights, the state officials are subject to the procedural con-
straints of the due process clause. In addition, the state has an af-
firmative obligation to protect rights; state officials have an obliga-
tion to extend to all persons in an equal fashion the protection of
the laws.

The judges, however, soon departed from this original
understanding. Citizenship ceased to be an important legal con-
cept; today, there are almost no differences, or more accurately,
there are only minor differences, between the rights enjoyed by
aliens and those held by citizens.

For many years, the Bill of Rights was considered to be not
applicable to the states; in more recent years, judges began the
piecemeal application of the Bill of Rights, although there is still
some confusion about how much of it is binding on the states.

The due process clause has ceased to be a mere procedural con-
straint, and furthermore, its protections were extended to corpora-
tions. The equal protection clause itself has been radically chang-
ed. In a famous case, the Supreme Court declared that the equal
protection of the laws was meant to be read as providing for the
protection of equal laws. By this change in syntax, the scope of
the clause was altered. It was changed from being a requirement
that the executive and the courts enforce the law equally to a re-
quirement that the legislature must not pass laws that draw in-
vidious distinctions.

I could examine other changes, but I think that this is enough
detail to illustrate the course of change, and of how much we have

12 W&L

changed. Let me step back, though, and add one very important
thing. As a practical matter, these changes have been woven into
the law in tremendous detail; to turn back the clock to the original
understanding would entail changing the law in such vast and
sweeping terms as to amount to a revolution. That might be good
and it might be bad, but it would be extraordinary.

must admit, however, that I have been cheating a little bit,

because I have been making an assumption that we ought

to challenge. I have been assuming that our constitution is
the document of 1787, the document whose bicentennial we were
celebrating this year, and so I have been asking about changes in
the interpretation of the document of 1787 and its amendments.
But is this the right assumption to make? Is it true that the docu-
ment of 1787 (with amendments) is our constitution?

 

In other words, I suggest that we must confront the question:
which document is the constitution? The one written in 1776? Or
the one written in 1787? As you know, we customarily call these
two documents the Declaration of Independence and the Constitu-
tion, and so the question seems to have an obvious answer. Yet,
I think there is an important issue here, and I would not like for
it to be prejudiced by mere terminology.

One way for me to state the issue is to allude to the Lincoln-
Douglas debates. We have forgotten much about these debates,
but everyone is familiar with Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address, and
we all remember the opening phrase, ‘‘Four score and seven years
ago.’’ Although you have heard the phrase, you may not be aware
that this dates the nation from 1776, not 1787, and you also may
not be aware that this dating was symbolically important to
Lincoln.

The Lincoln-Douglas debates were triggered by the Dred Scott
decision, and especially by Chief Justice Taney’s opinion in that
case. Taney wrote that the Declaration’s ringing endorsement of
equality did not mean what it seemed to say, and that even if it
did, it was not part of the constitutional law that governs the land.

Throughout the debates, Lincoln returned over and over again
to the text of the Declaration and to the proposition that it was
the fundamental text, the fundamental constitution: 1787 is only
the letter; 1776 is the spirit that gives life to the letter. Recall again
the opening words at Gettysburg: ‘‘Four score and seven years ago,
our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation, conceiv-
ed in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are
created equal.’’ With the phrase ‘‘dedicated to the proposition that
all men are created equal,’’ Lincoln was claiming a victory in the
great debates. And I suggest that he made no idle claim; history
has given him the victory.

The form that Lincoln’s victory has taken is that we do in fact,

 

as a citizenry, regard his proposition about equality as being the
fundamental principle of our polity. If by a constitution you mean
the fundamental text, then it happens to be true that the Declara-
tion of 1776 is the fundamental text. It contains the whole of the
law and the prophets; the rest is merely commentary.

In 1976, we celebrated the bicentennial of the Declaration; tall
ships sailed into the New York harbor; there was national joy. This
year we are celebrating the other bicentennial; a lot of lawyers are
making speeches; and it is a crashing bore. Nothing is duller than
a lawyer’s speech. And there is another way to see that Lincoln
has won: look at the major cases in constitutional law.

Everyone has his or her own list of which Supreme Court deci-
sions have been the most important, but I think that the three deci-
sions that I shall discuss will be conceded by all to be important,
although one can doubt whether they are the most important. At
any rate, they are important, and furthermore, they rest upon the
Declaration, the document of 1776.

Brown v. Board. Brown against Board, which outlawed school
desegregation, rests on the principle of racial equality. It cannot
rest easily on the text of the XIVth alone, since the debates of those
who passed that amendment indicate that they approved of
segregating schools on the grounds of race. It is always hard to
ascertain the original understanding, but to the degree that we can
get at the drafter’s intent, it does not seem that Brown can rest
on that support. By the way, the members of the Supreme Court
asked counsel in Brown to brief them on history, and if you have
ever read their opinion, you may have noted that they explicitly
say that they will not be bound by the original understanding.
Nonetheless, if the premise of equality is fundamental to our law,
then the case rests on a firm foundation.

Baker v. Carr. Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren listed
the case of Baker against Carr, which held that malapportionment
in voting districts was illegal, as the most important of his tenure.
It generated a series of cases that led up to Reynolds against Sims
and the ‘‘one person, one vote’’ rule. The opinions in these cases
rest on the equal protection clause. But, if anything is historically
clear, it is that the equal protection clause has nothing to do with
voting.

If the equal protection clause had dealt with voting, then the
XVth amendment would have been unnecessary. Yet the X Vth was
in fact necessary; no one imagined anything else could have been
the case. This is one of the few things on which the debates are
crystal clear. But once again, let us suppose the premise of equali-
ty is fundamental; let us suppose that Baker against Carr is an in-
terpretation of the Declaration of Independence. Then the case
becomes plausible.

Roe v. Wade. Finally, I list the most famous case of the Burger
court. I cite this case not for its holding about abortion, but for
its symbolic overtones. This case is merely one of a series of cases
dealing with issues of gender in which the Burger court became
one of the most activist courts in history and broke new ground.

We cannot, however, make any sense of these cases unless we
see that the judges were moved by the premise of gender equality.
The Fourteenth Amendment itself does not embrace gender equali-
ty; Section 2 of the XIVth uses the word ‘‘male’’ three times. The
premise of gender equality must come from some other source.

The results may or may not follow from their stated premises,
and I do not wish to argue that issue, which is extremely difficult.
There is a large body of issues that lies behind this course of deci-
sions, and I cannot attend to many of them. One can ask such
questions as: is the idea of equality a good idea? Even if it is, are
these decisions a good execution of that idea? I won’t answer these
questions; for now, it is enough to say that the decisions that I

have cited in fact rest upon an idea of equality. For better or for
worse, the ideal that inspires these cases is the understanding that
some judges have about the idea of equality.

et me conclude by returning to the distinction that I made

earlier; that is, the distinction between a constitution and

the corpus of constitutional law. I wish to urge that a con-
stitution is not the same thing as constitutional law. After all, con-
stitutional law is supposed to be an interpretation of our Constitu-
tion, and unless the two are somehow different, then one can’t
be an interpretation of the other. And there is another point that
is even more important.

 

 

My most fundamental point is that constitutional law, like law
in general, tends to be built around the words ‘‘command’’ and
‘*description.’’ These words are the natural idiom of the law. The
law commands that certain things be done, and we can describe
these commands. Oliver Wendell Holmes once said that law was
simply the description of what courts would do. And of course
I have herein given some descriptions of what judges have in fact
done. To be sure, we also need a language of permissions—the
law issues permits as well as issuing commands—but this is a minor
technical detail. The fact remains that commands and descriptions
are fundamental to the law.

But a constitution differs from constitutional law, and to mark
out this difference, I would like to mention two other words,
‘*hopes”’ and ‘‘exhortations.’’ I think that a constitution is as much
a hope as it is a command. I think that the real problem with the
Dred Scott case was that Taney said that Jefferson could not have
meant that all men were created equal since he owned some men;
Jefferson’s practice was inconsistent with his preaching.

If Taney is right, then we must read all documents in terms
of the actual practice of those who wrote them. If Taney is right,
then we cannot write aspirations into the Constitution; we cannot
promise to reform and do better than we have done. If I may use
a theological term, this would mean that we could not make a vow.
But individuals and nations must be able to make vows. A con-
stitution must be more than strict law.

So I am back to Jefferson; I have cheated on my promise to
leave Jefferson behind. And I will conclude by asking the ques-
tion: whose Constitution is it? I know Jefferson’s answer to the
question of who owns the Constitution. My hope, my exhortation,
is that the citizens will never think of the Constitution as the judges’

‘constitution. Every citizen is just as much an expert on the aspira-

tions of the people, on the ‘“‘spirit’’ of 1776 that lies behind the
‘‘letter’’ of 1787, as are those who wear black robes. Everyone may
not be an expert on constitutional law, but each citizen is one of
the experts on the Constitution.

W&L 13

Flavortul
Artifacts

 

Sam Campbell, ’81, Is Keeping
A Southern Tradition Cooking

 

By Jeffery G. Hanna

 

Sam Campbell and a freshly baked artifact

14

W&L

HATTANOOGA—Sam Campbell
was four years old when he popped
the question.

Why, he asked, does our family hand out
Moon Pies at Halloween? Why don’t we give
away lollipops and bubblegum like everyone
else does?

Because, he was told, Moon Pies are
what your daddy does.

Today, nearly a quarter century later,
Moon Pies are what Sam Campbell does.

Samuel H. Campbell IV, ’81, is executive
vice president of the Chattanooga Bakery,
which his grandfather founded in 1902 and
which his family has run for the past 85
years.

On one level, the bakery is a classic fami-
ly business. Sam IV’s father took over in the
mid-1950s and remains today as the com-
pany’s president. Sam IV joined the family
business the day after his graduation from
Washington and Lee and is now a member
of the company’s management team along
with his father, another executive vice presi-
dent, and the production manager.

‘First and foremost, we’re a bakery,’’
Campbell insists in his deep East Tennessee
drawl. ‘‘We are a commodity business. We
buy flour; we buy corn syrup; we buy sugar;
we buy minor ingredients; we buy packag-
ing materials and boxes. We have to buy all
these materials and control our labor and ad-
ministrative expenses and our shipping and
sales expenses. We have to make sure we
make a profit. So we are most definitely a
business.’’

On another level, however, the Chat-
tanooga Bakery is something more than just
a business. It is, as Campbell himself has sug-
gested, the guardian of a Southern tradition.
Since its creation in 1917, the Moon Pie has
become inextricably linked with the South
and its culture. So much so that no less an
authority on Southern culture than William
Ferris, director of the University of
Mississippi’s Center for the Study of
Southern Culture, calls the Moon Pie ‘‘a
cultural artifact.”’

That is what makes the Chattanooga
Bakery more than a business. After all, how
many businesses turn out a million cultural
artifacts in four different flavors each week?

he Chattanooga Bakery is a

nondescript complex of buildings

located just across the Tennessee
River from downtown Chattanooga. From
all outward appearances, this is another of
the string of factories that now line the river’s
north bank. It is identified by only a small,
easy-to-miss sign at the gate. The sign reads
‘‘The Chattanooga Bakery.’’ There is no
mention of the bakery’s famous product,
nothing at all to suggest that this is Moon
Pie mecca.

 

 

That is in keeping with the Chattanooga
Bakery’s understated approach. The com-
pany has never spent a dime on advertising.
And with good reason. Who needs to adver-
tise when people are writing songs about
your product? Or creating fan clubs around
it? Or making it the star of cartoon strips?

“It is an amazing phenomenon,”’ says
Sam Campbell, ushering a visitor into his of-
fice. ‘‘We’re not necessarily unique in this
respect. There are obviously other products
that have become as familiar. But few prod-
ucts have the name recognition ours does or
elicit the same loyalty from their consumers.
The name helps by being fairly whimsical.
And everybody loves the product. It’s kind
of like a teddy bear you can eat.’’

During the last 12 months newspapers
and magazines across the country have
featured stories about the Moon Pie and for
no particular reason that Campbell can iden-
tify. One morning not long ago Campbell
answered the phone only to find himself be-
ing interviewed live on a radio station in An-
chorage, Alaska.

**Seems a UPI story about Moon Pies ap-
peared in a paper there and the fellow on the
radio wanted to know what this was all
about,’’ notes Campbell, admitting that
Alaska is not one of the bakery’s major
markets—at least not yet.

A bit of Moon Pie history (of which there
is plenty) might shed some light on the
phenomenon. Rest assured, Campbell knows
his Moon Pie history, having grown up
listening to all the stories.

The Moon Pie, he explains, came into ex-
istence in 1917. The trademark—Moon Pie
Brand Marshmallow Sandwich—was
registered on Jan. 1, 1919. But the roots go
back farther.

When Campbell’s grandfather opened
the bakery in 1902, it was the subsidiary of
a small flour mill. The bakery was created
to turn leftover flour from the mill into
crackers and cookies and cakes.

**There wasn’t any distribution to speak
of at the time, so you had a bunch of these
little bitty bakeries making products for con-
sumers in about a 50-mile radius,’’ Camp-

bell explains. ‘“They made everything from
fig bars to ginger snaps to saltines. In its first
15 years or so, this bakery had 200 different
varieties of cookies and crackers in its port-
folio.”’

The Chattanooga Bakery featured the
Lookout line of products, named after the
mountain just to the southwest of Chat-
tanooga. There were Lookout fig cakes and
Lookout ginger snaps and Lookout peanut
bars. And there were Lookout marsh-
mallows—forerunners of the Moon Pie.

Along about 1917, as the legend has it,
a salesman had been dispatched into the hills
of Appalachia to peddle the bakery’s
Lookout cookies and crackers. The sales trip
was less than successful.

When the salesman returned, he reported
his problems to the folks at the bakery. Un-
fortunately there is no recording of that
historic conversation. But Campbell can
recreate it in remarkable detail.

*‘Boy, I sure had a tough time selling
anything,’’ the salesman told his superior.
‘“You know what they want up there?’’

W&L 15

 

‘*No,’’ his boss replied. ‘‘What do they
want?”’

‘‘They want something round and full of
marshmallow and covered up with chocolate.
And it needs to be big as the moon.”’

That description might have been a bit
vague as far as the bakers were concerned.
But with those specifications in mind, the
bakery began revising its Lookout marsh-
mallows, taking special care to make them
as big as the moon. The Moon Pie was
born—or, in this instance, baked.

In the nearly 70 years since the name was
officially registered, the company has
become fiercely protective of its trademark.

‘If someone stood up in the middle of
aroom of 100 people and held up a glass of
cola and asked what it was, 98 people would
write down ‘Coke,’ whether it was Coca-
Cola, Pepsi, or RC Cola,’’ says Campbell.
‘‘We’d probably get a similar response with
a marshmallow sandwich. Therefore, every
time we refer to it, we call it the ‘Moon Pie
Brand—The Original Marshmallow Sand-
wich.’ ”’

Although its distinctive name has con-
siderable bearing on the product’s populari-
ty, Campbell suggests that Moon Pies
became indelibly part of the Southern culture
during the 1920s and 1930s when the snack
cakes were paired with RC Cola to become
the working man’s lunch.

‘‘Back then, when the South was more
agricultural than it is now, the whole center
of life was based around the country store.
Everything focused on what was happening
on the front porch of that country store,”’
says Campbell. ‘‘It still is that way in some
little hamlets.

‘*The farms would give their workers an
hour off for lunch, and they’d go over to the
store. In that era, the coldest thing in the
county was the drink box at the country
store. So they go straight to that drink box
and look in and see a six-ounce Coca-Cola
and a 10-ounce RC Cola, both for a nickel.
So the man buys an RC. Then he goes over
to the snack cake rack, and guess what the
biggest product on the rack is? The Moon
Pie, which also sells for a nickel. So for a
dime, an RC and a Moon Pie became the
working man’s lunch.”’

As the popularity of Moon Pies grew, the
Chattanooga Bakery spent more and more
of its time producing them. During the next
30 years or so, the bakery went from 200 dif-
ferent cookies and crackers down to 20 and
then to about five.

Meantime, in an era when the small local
bakeries were being eaten up by the larger
companies, the Moon Pie allowed the Chat-
tanooga Bakery to avoid a similar fate.
Finally, in the early 1950s, it became ap-

16 W&L

parent that the company was wasting its ef-
forts by producing anything other than
Moon Pies.

‘‘The bakery was struggling to be prof-
itable when the decision was made to see
whether it could make a go of it with only
the Moon Pie. For 30 years since then that’s
what we’ve done. We’ve tried some other
products between then and now, but it real-
ly has become apparent to us that it’s tough
to make any money without a brand name
unless you’ve got the marketing muscle of
a Nabisco or a Keebler or a Procter &
Gamble.

‘It would take millions of dollars to
launch a new brand name, to get the recogni-
tion that Moon Pie already has. So we’re
content doing what we’re doing.’’

ntil his fourth Halloween, Sam
t | Campbell had not given much
thought to what it was his father did
between the time he left home every morn-
ing and returned every evening. And even
after he finally discovered why trick-or-
treaters got Moon Pies at his house, Camp-
bell recalls, little was said about the family’s
business while he was growing up.

‘*T didn’t work for the company, even
part time or in the summers, until after I had
graduated from high school,’’ he says.
‘*They used to have a law in Tennessee that
you had to be 18 to work around machinery,
so there wasn’t any way to work me in, even
if they had wanted to.

‘‘Plus, I guess the sugar-coated highway
would be a little tough. You know, the ‘here
comes the kid’ comments. So it wasn’t like
that for me.”’

But Campbell never doubted for a mo-
ment that he was destined to join the family
business. That was a foregone conclusion.

‘*T remember a meeting that my parents
and I had with Dr. (Joseph) Goldsten, who
was my adviser at W&L, during Parents’
Weekend of my freshman year,’’ Campbell
says. ‘‘I remember Dr. Goldsten telling us
that W&L traditionally enrolled a lot of
students who were potential heirs to family
businesses but that he estimated only about
one in 10 really wanted to go to work for the
family business.

‘*T thought that was an interesting anec-
dote, because there really never was a doubt
as far as I was concerned. It wasn’t pressured
on me at all, yet it was always appealing to
me.”’

Campbell majored in business ad-
ministration at W&L, which, he says, offered
a broader curriculum than other colleges he
considered. ‘‘The program there was tremen-
dous training,’’ Campbell says. ‘‘My interest
was always on the administration side of the

business, and I think that’s where my
strength is —the administration side and the
numbers. I’ve gotten a lot better at handling
the numbers than some of my W&L pro-
fessors probably would have thought I
would.’’

His affiliation with Moon Pies was hard-
ly asecret to his fraternity brothers at Sigma
Chi or his classmates. Like college students
everywhere, he was the recipient of an occa-
sional ‘‘care package.’’ Campbell’s ‘‘care
packages,’’ however, came straight from the
Chattanooga Bakery—usually vanilla deluxe
double deckers.

As food manager at Sigma Chi, he set the
fraternity up as an account with the bakery
and added Moon Pies to the menus. That
didn’t last long, however. ‘‘We had some
guys from North Carolina who’d get into the
kitchen and eat a dozen at a time,’’ Camp-
bell says ruefully. ‘‘That shot the food
budget.”’

ows upon rows of cookies are roll-
R:: through the Chattanooga

Bakery’s 220-foot-long oven and
spilling onto a conveyor belt that winds along
the plant overhead, carrying the freshly bak-
ed cookies toward the waiting marshmallow
and ultimately the chocolate (or vanilla or
banana or coconut) coating. Before this day
is over, 300,000 Moon Pies will have been
produced and packaged.

The product has evolved over the years
primarily to suit the distribution re-
quirements. In its original form, the classic
Moon Pie weighed three ounces, was five and
a half inches in diameter, and consisted of
two cookies with marshmallow in between.

Then along came vending machines. But
the widest slot on a vending machine is the
one that holds a bag of potato chips and can-
not accommodate anything wider than four
and a half inches. So Moon Pies changed to
fit the times.

‘‘How do you get the same weight and
cut the width by an inch and a half? We
finally figured it out—you go up instead of
out,’’ says Campbell, referring to the deluxe
double decker that still weighs three ounces
and has three cookies instead of two. The key
difference is that it is four inches wide, a
perfect fit for vending machines.

Besides the deluxe double deckers there
are still single decker varieties packaged to
fit various markets—a discount store
package, a grocery store package.

Although Moon Pies are sold in 40 states
now, Campbell is quick to note that 75 per-
cent of the market is in the Southeast.

‘‘One thing that did happen was that as
Southeast workers moved north after World
War II, you wound up with an awful lot of

 

 

 

FOR THE LININITIATED AND CULTLIRALLY DEPRIVED,
THE MOON PIE IS A TRADITIONAL SNACK TREA
NATIVE TO THE SOUTHERN LINITED STATES...

 

 

 

    

"I { Pie “

THE ORIGINAL
MARSHMALLOW

 

 

 

 

AT FIRST, NOBODY WOULD
BELIEVE HIM...

UNCLE DUB, A MOON PIE
FELL OUT OF THE SKY
AND HIT ME ON THE HEAD!

| I BEGGED HIS MAMA

TOSEND THAT BOY 70
MILITARY SCHOOL ’

 

 

 

  
  
   
 

 

 

 

natives of Birmingham who grew up on
farms and ended up in Gary, Ind. So the
culture moves up there, and consequently we
have a tremendous backing in the in-
dustrialized Midwest.’’

Moon Pie aficionados are liable to turn
up anywhere, though. Campbell is constantly
answering letters from transplanted
Southerners, some now living as far away as
Europe, who do not want to give up their
Moon Pies. To accommodate such requests,
Moon Pies are now available by mail direct
from Chattanooga.

The bakery once had a licensing agree-
ment with a bakery in Japan that produced
a version called Massi Pies. And there was
even one unfortunate attempt to market
Moon Pies in Saudi Arabia.

‘‘A Syrian native now living in Atlanta
wanted to export Moon Pies to Saudi
Arabia,”’ recalls Campbell. ‘‘He described
the demographics of a 1930s North Carolina,
which sounded like the perfect market for
us. So we went along with it. We printed up
all the wrappers in Arabic, got the shipment
ready, and sent it over there.

‘‘Unfortunately a customs agent decid-
ed to give us a hard time and the shipment
sat on the dock for six months. Snack cakes
don’t improve with age, so by the time they
were finally released they were as hard as
rocks. That was the end of that.

‘‘We wound up with some packaging
material with labels in Arabic. And we’ve
discovered you can’t sell Arabian Moon Pies
in Arab, Ala.”’

GO I HEARD AVOICE
CRY OUT, “MOON PIE!”
AND THE NEXT-THNG
I KNEW IT BEANED ME!

 

© Jefterson Communications inc 1984
Orstri®uted by Tribune Company Synaicate inc

magazine clippings gets thicker by the

day. The fascination with and affec-
tion for Moon Pies never ceases to amaze
him.

Two years ago a Charlotte, N.C., man
named Ron Dickson found himself explain-
ing a Moon Pie to a co-worker who had just
moved to Charlotte from somewhere north
of the Mason-Dixon Line, where the genuine
article is often confused with one of those
other marshmallow sandwiches.

Dickson sat down and wrote a two-page
memo about Moon Pies to help educate the
newcomers. That memo grew and grew un-
til Dickson wound up publishing a 96-page
book, The Great American Moon Pie Handa-
book, that covers everything from proper
Moon Pie etiquette to selecting the proper
beverage to accompany a Moon Pie. Out of
that book grew the Moon Pie Cultural Club,
which Dickson heads.

In 1984 the nationally syndicated cartoon
strip, Kudzu, which is drawn by Doug
Marlette of the Atlanta Journal and Con-
stitution, devoted a series of strips to a
mysterious invasion by low-flying Moon
Pies. (Campbell notes that Marlette is par-
tial to banana Moon Pies and gets a month-
ly shipment from Chattanooga.)

And for the past two years a Wal-Mart
store in Oneonta, Ala., has been host for the
only Moon Pie Eating Contest officially
sanctioned by the Chattanooga Bakery. In

Sy am Campbell’s file of newspaper and

the first contest a high school football coach

from Oneonta was the winner when he ate

..- BUT ON THIS FATEFUL DAY IN

BYPASS A NEW CHAPTER IS ABouT
TO BE WRITTEN IN THE HISTORY
OF MOONPIE DOM

   

   

Duy “@1BD21PUAG AUBdWOD euNqus Aq PeINquisig
98S DU} ‘SUONSQ}UNWWOD VOSIE er

 

 

 

 

THE PLOT THICKENS !

Reprinted by permission of Doug Marlette

Si,

 

six double deckers in 10 minutes, then gob-
bled down two and a half more in a five-
minute overtime period.

The coach failed to defend his title this
year when one of his players, a sophomore
defensive tackle (‘‘quite a large guy,’’ Camp-
bell notes), set a world record by eating 11
Moon Pie double deckers in 10 minutes.

‘‘It was,’’ says Campbell, ‘‘an awesome
performance.”’

espite the songs and books and con-
1) tests, Sam Campbell is keenly

aware that his company cannot af-
ford to rest on its laurels. ‘‘We’re always
looking for ways to do what we do better,”’
he says.

And, though he hesitates to say much
about it, Campbell admits that the bakery
is in the midst of testing a new version of the
Moon Pie. This one will have a peanut-butter
coating.

‘*T guess most everybody in the industry
knows about it,’’ he says. ‘‘We’ve run three
or four test batches and have improved with
each one.

‘‘Our research has shown that the flavor
is pretty good, but we’re not going to put it
out on the market until we’re satisfied that
it’s great.”’

Meantime, another generation of Camp-
bells is becoming aware that Moon Pies are
what the family does. The younger of Sam
Campbell’s two daughters, 1'%2-year-old
Elizabeth, had her first Moon Pie last year.
On Halloween, naturally.

W&L 17

 

 

RRS

 

 

 

 

A scene from a mass grave in Kampuchea

A Quest for Justice

 

W&L Law Professor Hopes to Take the Khmer Rouge to Court

 

The survivors are still living the horror.
Little children in Kampuchean schools draw
pictures of plows being pulled by people at
gunpoint, rather than by oxen. They paint
decapitated bodies and people being hacked
to death. Many children starved. The sur-
vivors saw the crimes they now draw pictures
of. The looks of sadness in some small eyes
will always haunt me.

Gregory Stanton
Yale Law Report, Winter 1982

reg Stanton does not look like a

haunted man. His wide face, bald

pate, and easy smile are the features
of a man in love with life, at peace with
himself. Yet, there is something burning deep
within him. It is an obsession that supports
rather than belies, his jovial, genial
appearance.

Stanton, a Washington and Lee assistant
professor of law, is director of the Cambo-
dian Genocide Project, a worldwide effort
dedicated to bringing the murders of more
than one million Kampucheans to justice
before the World Court at The Hague.

At left, Greg Stanton with his wife, Mary Ellen,
and their children, Teddy, 4, and Tana, 6.

 

By Brian D. Shaw

A day does not go by without Stanton’s
thinking of the horror and genocide wrought
by Pol Pot and his Khmer Rouge henchmen
in Cambodia from 1975 through 1978. Each
morning when he greets his two adopted
Cambodian children—Elizabeth Chantana
and Theodore Saroun—Stanton is remind-
ed of his mission. The Cambodian Genocide
Project Inc., founded by Stanton in 1980,
has become ‘‘a special mission for my
children.’’ Besides, Stanton adds, pausing
for irony: ‘‘It keeps me busy.”’

he time was 1970. The corrupt Cam-
; bodian monarchy headed by Prince
Sihanouk was replaced by the even
more corrupt Lon Nol republic. Sihanouk
joined forces with the Communist Khmer
Rouge led by Pol Pot. For five years, Pol
Pot and his forces ravaged the country of
Cambodia, finally winning power in 1975.
The name of the country was changed from
Cambodia to Democratic Kampuchea, and
the Pol Pot regime .became the official
representatives of Cambodia in the United
Nations.
What followed Pol Pot’s rise to power
was a campaign of murder and genocide on

a scale the world had not seen since the Nazi
holocaust. The Pol Pot Communists, still
held as an ideal by some communists,
murdered at least one million Kampucheans.
Most doctors, teachers, and other educated
people were forced to dig trenches, and then
were hacked to death with hoes. Their
children’s brains were smashed out against
trees. These crude methods of murder were
employed, Stanton says, because orders were
issued by Khmer Rouge leaders that ‘‘bullets
were not to be wasted.”’

In their effort to eradicate cities, schools,
and churches and return Kampuchea to a
completely agrarian society, the Khmer
Rouge created a nationwide gulag. Sydney
Schanberg, the New York Times reporter
whose experiences in Kampuchea were detail-
ed in the film The Killing Fields, wrote of
that time:

‘‘The Khmer Rouge imposed a revolution
more radical and brutal than any other in
modern history. .. . Attachment to home
village and love of Buddha, Cambodian
verities, were replaced by psychological
reorientation, mass relocation, and rigid col-
lectivization. Families were separated, with
husbands, wives, and children all working on

W&L 19

 

separate agricultural and construction proj-
ects. They were often many miles apart and
did not see each other for seasons at a time.
Sometimes children were separated com-
pletely from their parents, never to meet
again. Work crews were often sex-
segregated. Those already married needed
special permission, infrequently given, to
meet and sleep together. Weddings were ar-
ranged by the Khmer Rouge, en masse; the
pairings would simply be called out at a com-
mune assembly. Waves of suicides were the
result of these forced marriages.”’

The Khmer Rouge declared that all
minority ethnic groups would cease to exist.
They forced the Chams, a Muslim minori-
ty, to give up their children and all Chams
were forced into communes dominated by
the Khmer majority. Whole Cham villages
were murdered. The same genocidal policies
largely eradicated the Christian minority and
the Buddhist monkhood. The Khmer Rouge
declared everyone from the Eastern zone
near Vietnam to have ‘‘Khmer bodies, but
Vietnamese minds’’ and undertook a mass
evacuation and extermination campaign
there in 1978.

The Pol Pot government was overthrown
in 1979 when the Vietnamese invaded Kam-
puchea and seized control of the entire na-
tion by April of that year. The Pol Pot forces
fled to the mountains along the Thailand
border and from there they continued to
wage war as terrorists, attacking buses and
relief trucks and murdering farmers. As the
forces of Pol Pot retreated, a flood of starv-
ing, disease-wracked refugees crossed into
Thailand. It was only then that the full scope
of the Kampuchean genocide became known
to the whole world.

In the fall of 1979, the largest relief ef-
fort in history was begun in Kampuchea.
Organizations such as UNICEF and the In-
ternational Committee of the Red Cross
began relief efforts in Kampuchea and
Thailand. The Church World Service was the
first American relief organization allowed in-
to Kampuchea by the new government. Its
Kampuchea director was Greg Stanton, ac-
companied by his wife, Mary Ellen.

Stanton was no stranger to the problems
facing Third World and developing nations.
Shortly after graduating from Oberlin Col-
lege in 1968, Stanton served with the Peace
Corps in the Ivory Coast in West Africa. It
was there that he met Mary Ellen, a nurse-
midwife. The Stantons had also worked in
India. But never before had they encountered
the problems and magnitude of suffering
they witnessed in Kampuchea.

As a student at the Yale Law School,
having already earned a master of arts in an-
thropology from the University of Chicago

20 W&L

and a master of sacred theology from the
Harvard Divinity School, Stanton had done
some research about the Khmer Rouge and
the atrocities carried out by Pol Pot’s troops.
As director of the CWS relief effort, he had
the opportunity to begin the revitalization of

a ravaged nation while at the same time:

gathering evidence to support the claims of
genocide against the Khmer Rouge.

‘*T went to Cambodia with the idea of
conducting an objective international in-
vestigation’’ into the situation, he explains.
“‘The new government had convicted two
men in absentia—Ieng Sary and Pol Pot—
in trials in 1979, but those were regarded by
many as ‘show’ trials. An international
tribunal was needed to try the Khmer Rouge
leaders with objective credibility.’’

Stanton cites several reasons why it is im-
portant to Kampuchea, and to people all
over the world, that the Khmer Rouge be
tried.

‘*Genocide is a crime against all people,”’
he says. ‘‘That is why the trials at Nuremberg
were so important. Genocide should be tried
by a world court.

‘Historically, the facts need to be
established,’’ Stanton continues. If the facts
of the genocide are not documented now, he
says, people will begin to forget about the
killings. They will attach the word ‘‘alleged’’
to any mention of the genocide, thus reduc-
ing the perception of the crime.

If the Khmer Rouge regime is tried by the
World Court and found guilty, Stanton says,
the verdict ‘‘could result in specific action
that would at least diminish the effectiveness
of the Khmer Rouge and its leaders, and
remove them as a future threat to Kam-
puchea.’’ With Pol Pot still at large,
although his whereabouts are unknown, and
Ieng Sary occasionally speaking at the United
Nations, it is important, notes Stanton, to
remove all political support for the Khmer
Rouge.

While Stanton and his wife were work-
ing in Kampuchea an event occurred that
altered their lives. One Sunday morning near
the end of their service there, a newborn
baby girl was abandoned at the National
Pediatric Hospital. Afraid that a healthy
baby would not survive in the disease-filled
hospital, the doctor in charge brought the
baby to the Stantons’ hotel. The Stantons,
who had postponed starting their family to
direct the Kampuchean relief efforts, were
captivated by the baby girl.

‘“When we saw the child our hearts went
out to her. We took care of her from that
moment on,’’ says Stanton.

The Stantons asked the government to
allow them to adopt the baby, or to find a
Kampuchean family who would adopt her.

 

Since no child had been adopted by
foreigners in Kampuchea since 1975, the
Stantons knew it was likely that the baby
would be taken to an orphanage. The mat-
ter went all the way to the Revolutionary
Council and President Heng Samrin. After
a month of uncertainty and waiting, the
Stantons were granted permission to adopt
her.

*“*It was a living proof of the power of
love to transcend every boundary,’’ says
Stanton.

The Stanton family—all_ three
members—flew out of Kampuchea on Dec.
23 and, on Christmas Eve, the baby was bap-
tized by Greg’s father in the United States.
She was named Elizabeth Chantana. Chan-
tana is a Khmer name that means ‘“‘gift of
God.’’ Two years later the Stantons adopted
Theodore, the son of a Kampuchean refugee
they met in Oregon.

As he went about directing the $12
million relief effort and after he gave up his
directorship and returned to the United
States, Stanton was faced with two impor-
tant tasks: getting documentation to support
the claims of genocide against Pol Pot and

 

his men, and finding a nation willing to press
charges against the Khmer Rouge in the
World Court. The first task, though grisly
and gruesome, has proved the easier of the
two.

Since 1981 Stanton has regularly return-
ed to Kampuchea to talk with survivors of
the genocide and their families. He interview-
ed the 14-year-old son of a train station
master who saw his mother and father disem-
boweled by the Communists. He smelled the
rotting flesh and photographed the countless
skulls in the mass graves that were once the
killing grounds for the Khmer Rouge. He has
seen the human devastation caused by the
Communists in their pursuit of a perfect
society. And he has turned away in grief and
anger after seeing a Mickey Mouse T-shirt
on a tiny skeleton with a crushed skull.

Last year, Stanton returned to Kam-
puchea with Lexington filmmaker Chris
Munger. With the permission of the Kam-
puchean government, the two men spent
three intense weeks videotaping testimony
from scores of eyewitnesses to the Khmer
Rouge genocide. Their efforts concentrated
on the testimony of Cham Muslims and Bud-

 

dhist monks (two groups specifically targeted
for extermination by the Khmer Rouge) and
from eyewitnesses to torture and murder at
the extermination prisons and mass graves.

‘‘Much of the testimony is quite mov-
ing,’’ he says, ‘‘especially the stories of those
who had to watch the murder of their own
parents or families. The prisons and mass
graves were filmed in sufficient detail to
make a documentary film. The evidence
established beyond a reasonable doubt that
the genocide against the Cham and the Bud-
dhist monks was intentionally ordered by the
top leadership of the Khmer Rouge regime.’’

Stanton has permission from the Kam-
puchean government to return in the com-
ing year to continue making a documentary
film. He also received a positive response
from the Kampuchean Foreign Ministry for
his request to bring a delegation of
distinguished international jurists to in-
vestigate the genocide and the case against
the Khmer Rouge regime.

Because the United States has not ac-
cepted World Court jurisdiction under the
Genocide Convention, the Court would not
be able to accept jurisdiction if the U.S. were

AS

#

ows 3 3
_ Kampuchean children
+ at work in the fields

to bring the case unless Democratic Kam-
puchea specifically consents. That is unlike-
ly. So Stanton must search for a nation that
is able to bring suit against the Khmer
Rouge.

Since last year, Stanton has made several
trips halfway across the world to garner sup-
port for his project. He has traveled several
times to Australia and to India. He has met
with the Australian Foreign Minister, with
the head of the Southeast Asia branch of the
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs,
with leaders of relief agencies and organiza-
tions in the Australia-Kampuchea working
group, and lawyers in the Australian branch
of the Cambodian Genocide Project.

Stanton’s trips proved successful. Shortly
after he proposed the plan, William Hayden,
the Australian foreign minister, called for a
trial of the Khmer Rouge leaders by an in-
ternational tribunal.

He has also enlisted the support of Dame
Roma Mitchell, judge and chair of the
Australian Commission on Human Rights,
who agreed to join a delegation of jurists
who will go to Kampuchea to investigate and
issue a report on the case against the Khmer

W&L= 21

 

Rouge. Patrick J. Downey, former chair of
the New Zealand Commission on Human
Rights, has also agreed to join the delega-
tion as has Thomas Guergenthal, president
of the Inter-American Court of Human
Rights.

In addition, Stanton has received support
from David Geddes, secretary-general of
LAWASIA, a bar association for Asia and
the Pacific. On a trip to India in January,
Stanton met with Justice Bhagwati, just
retired chief justice of the Indian Supreme
Court, who agreed to join the judges’ delega-
tion, and with Fali Nariman, president of
LAWASIA. He also held a two-hour con-
versation with the president of the World
Court. And he talked with the Indian Bar
Association, which will send a delegation to
investigate the genocide.

There is some indication that support for
Stanton’s idea is growing in the United
States. The State Department Legal Advisor
assigned a staff member to do research on
the Cambodian genocide. It was the first in-
dication of support from the State Depart-
ment, Stanton says.

In February, the American Bar Associa-
tion, in which Stanton is chairman of a
human rights committee, approved a resolu-
tion condemning the Cambodian genocide
and calling for legal action.

And in May, the New York Times car-
ried an editorial calling for the trial of the
Khmer Rouge leaders in the World Court.

Because the Khmer Rouge are still part
of the coalition that is fighting to regain con-
trol of Kampuchea, Stanton worries that if
pressure is not continuously applied to have
them brought to trial, their killing ways will
be forgotten.

‘‘One of the things I find most appalling
is that memories fade,’’ Stanton says.
‘‘These people who did the killing before
could one day be back in charge. They have
not changed their policies. The Khmer Rouge
continue to kill people in Kampuchea.’’

reg Stanton was born to parents

whose deep Christian faith and

commitment to human and civil
rights have set the patterns for his life. His
father—‘‘a man I admire tremendously,”’
Stanton says—is a retired pastor; his mother
is a retired teacher. Both are graduates of
Oberlin College.

Stanton’s father helped organize one of
the first sit-ins in the United States when, in
1945, he protested at an Oberlin barbershop
that refused black customers. He also work-
ed quietly in Streator, IIll., to integrate the
residential areas. Stanton admits his parents’
dedication to social justice rubbed off on him
at an early age.

22 W&L

 

‘‘T was nurtured in an atmosphere of ac-
tivism and pastoral care,’’ he says. ‘‘My
father spent an enormous amount of time
calling on people just because he cared about
them.’’

At Oberlin, Stanton combined scholar-
ship with a keen political consciousness. He
earned his Phi Beta Kappa key as a junior,
while at the same time holding a seat in the
student senate. His interest in foreign
cultures led him to his service with the Peace
Corps and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in
anthropology from the University of
Chicago.

After returning from Kampuchea and
finishing his work on his law degree from
Yale, Stanton clerked for Judge Alfred T.
Goodwin of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Portland, Ore., before joining the
Milwaukee firm of Foley and Lardner. He
came to Washington and Lee in 1985 and
teaches courses in law and anthropology,
constitutional law, contracts, and com-
parative law as well as a seminar on the In-
ternational Law of Human Rights.

‘*T always knew I would be a college pro-
fessor, but I wanted to practice first,’’ says
Stanton, seated in his office which overlooks
the pine trees that surround Lewis Hall. ‘‘We

knew we wanted to live in a community like

Lexington and Washington and Lee.”’

The intimacy of Lexington and
Washington and Lee is what sets it apart,
says Stanton.

‘‘This is a very supportive community.
It is a university where people love each
other,’’ he says. ‘‘It is a town in which you
can flourish as a human being.”’

The fundamental basis for a true com-
munity, says Stanton, is neighborly concern
for other persons. That attention to each
human being as an individual, he believes,
is the foundation of his motivation in the
Cambodian Genocide Project.

‘‘The Khmer Rouge tried to deper-
sonalize the entire country. The officers in
the military referred to themselves by
numbers, not names. Prisoners of the Khmer
Rouge had to sign confessions that they were

not human beings, but rather animals or
subhumans.

‘‘I believe that ultimately the only real
concerns are personal. The world is made up
of people. Any government, like the Khmer
Rouge, that ignores the needs of individual
people is a tyranny. Washington and Lee and
Lexington are places that care about people.
Here, talents and strengths can be nurtured.

‘*One of the things I have learned is how
important it is to live in a place where you
get to know people in their fullness, their
roundness. Here, you don’t get to know
them in just one dimension. You see them
at church, or you talk to them at the pool
or at the grocery store. You know their
children. It is a very special university and
a very special town.”’

One would think that running a
worldwide organization from a small town
in the mountains of Virginia would create
severe handicaps. Stanton finds the opposite
to be true. From his office in Lexington he
is removed from the petty politics he says
abounds in the human rights movement. He
is free to chart his own course.

‘*The politics of the human rights move-
ment is one of the most frustrating things I
have to deal with,’’ says Stanton, an edge
finding its way into his normally gentle tone.
‘‘The human rights movement is dominated
by people with a certain way of thinking.
Those who don’t subscribe to that way of
thinking are suspect.’’

Stanton said the human rights activists
in New York and Washington ‘‘don’t like in-
terlopers’’ and often go out of their way to
scuttle projects that might draw support
away from their efforts.

‘*The amazingly petty politics of the most
personal sort is the hardest to take,’’ he says.
‘*T have resolved to work above that.”’

So Stanton stays in Lexington, fighting
an international battle while trying to instill
in his students the intricately woven tension .
between human law and the law of ‘‘a God
of justice and love.’’

‘‘Genocide is a violation of God’s law as
well as human law,’’ says Stanton, who
brings that perspective to his teaching of con-
stitutional law as well as international law.

‘*There are principles of justice that are
part of the fabric of mankind. Our founding
fathers believed that. We have a constitution
that they designed to allow change and evolu-
tion in our understanding of justice. It allows
for the institutions of government to change
and develop. Our Constitution is still a
revolutionary document 200 years after it
was written.

“It really is a revolutionary thing to allow
people to be free. I try to teach that to my
students.’

The W&L Gazette

 

A Record Year for the Annual Fund

 

ashington and Lee’s 1986-87 An-

nual Fund recorded a 16 percent

jump in contributions over the
previous year and set new records both for
giving and for the number of donors.

The Annual Fund, which consists of on-
ly unrestricted gifts to be used for the Univer-
sity’s current operating budget, finished with
a total of $1,744,006, up from the 1985-86
figures of $1,502,901.

A total of 7,018 alumni, parents, and
friends contributed to the fund, up from
6,621 in 1985-86.

*‘This outstanding year of gift support
reflects the appreciation that our alumni,
parents, and friends have for the excellence
of this institution,’’ said W&L President
John D. Wilson.

In addition to the increases in contribu-
tions and donors, the Annual Fund also set
records in several other categories:

e Alumni donors were up four percent to
6,422;

e The number of parents contributing to
the Annual Fund increased 45 percent to 525;

¢ Contributions by parents increased 23
percent to $102,203;

e The total of contributions by Lee
Associates, who donate $1,000 or more an-
nually, was up 19 percent to $938,705;

e The number of Lee Associates con-
tributing jumped to 529, an increase of 19
percent;

e Gifts from members of the Colonnade
Club, who contribute between $100 and
$999, increased 14 percent to $708,334;

e The number of Colonnade Club
members contributing this year was up 11
percent to 3,670;

e The average gift by undergraduate
alumni was $263, a $31 increase over last
year;

e The average gift by law school alumni
was $196, up $5 from last year.

James W. Jennings Jr., ’65, ’72L, of
Roanoke served as chairman of the Annual
Fund for the past two years.

J. Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, of
Baltimore has been named chairman of the
1987-88 Annual Fund, which has set its goal
at $1,850,000.

 

Class of ’91 arrives

The freshman class that enrolled in
September brought with it an impressive
record of academic and extracurricular
achievement.

The University received a record 3,336
applications for the Class of 1991, offered
admission to 970 of those applicants, and
enrolled a class of 431.

Twenty-five of the incoming freshmen
are National Merit Finalists; 31 finished first
or second in their high school graduating
class.

The freshmen include 64 students who
served as student body or class president or
vice president, 97 varsity team captains, and
63 editors of a school newspaper, yearbook,
or literary magazine.

The members of the Class of ’91 come
from 39 states and one foreign country and
represent 331 secondary schools. Sixty per-
cent of them attended public or parochial
high schools; 40 percent attended indepen-
dent schools.

Catherine Councill,

89, gets some
assistance from her
father, Philip A. Coun-
cill, *54, while moving
into her room in the
new Gaines Residence
Hall.

The largest single contingent of freshmen
comes from Virginia (62), followed by
Maryland (40), Georgia (34), Pennsylvania
and Texas (31), and Florida (30).

Gaines Residence Hall opens

Although some work remained to be
done on such areas as the gatehouse tower,
the storage facilities, and the landscaping,
Gaines Residence Hall opened its doors to
students when law school classes began in
mid-August.

The 71,000-square-foot facility is located
on the corner of Washington and Nelson
streets, across from the Warner Center.

Designed to accommodate 249 upperclass
and law students, 76 percent of the new
facility’s rooms were reserved for occupan-
cy for the 1987-88 academic year.

‘*We are very pleased that so many of the
rooms were taken in the very first year,’’ said
Ken Ruscio, assistant dean of students. ‘‘I
think this gives us a good start toward mak-
ing Gaines an attractive place to live on the
campus.”’

W&L = 23

 

Diversity characterizes
first-year law students

What do a bank loan officer, a computer
systems designer, and a prison chaplain have
in common? All three have decided to enter
law school, and they are among the 121
students who comprise the first-year class at
the School of Law this fall.

The entering law class was chosen from
a total of 1,000 applicants. The first-year
students come from 31 states and two Cana-
dian provinces and represent 81 different
undergraduate institutions.

This year’s class contains 11 students over
30 years of age (four of them are over 40),
reflecting the continuing trend of career
changers.

In addition to a banker, a computer
systems designer, and a prison chaplain,
other pre-law school vocations represented
in the entering class include the owner of a
retail furniture store, a police officer, an

economist with the U.S. Department of °

Commerce, the manager of a small family
grocery store, the owner of an antique and

primitive art gallery, and a fish slimer at an

Alaskan salmon cannery.

Several members of the class hold
graduate degrees, including two with Ph.D.
degrees, four with MBA’s, and six with
master’s degrees in other areas. As usual,
political science and government were the
most popular undergraduate majors of the
class, followed by history, English, and
economics.

Shenandoah offers $1,000 prize

Shenandoah, the Washington and Lee
University Literary Review, has announced
the creation of the $1,000 Jeanne Charpiot
Goodheart Prize for Fiction. The prize will
be awarded to the author of the best story
published in Shenandoah during a volume
year.

The prize is made possible by a gift from
the late Mrs. Goodheart’s husband, Harry
G. Goodheart Jr., °41, and son, Harry G.
Goodheart III, ’66. The donors wish the
prize to reflect Jeanne Goodheart’s en-
thusiastic interest in well-crafted fiction and
her affection for Washington and Lee.

A record-setting summer

Summer on the Washington and Lee
campus was busier than ever this year as
many of the University’s summer programs
enjoyed record or near-record attendance.

While such established summer programs
as the Alumni Colleges and Summer Scholars
were even more popular than usual, the first
Institute for Family Business had a successful

24 W&L

 

 

debut with 37 participants from 20
companies.

A five-day program that examined the
opportunities and problems unique to
family-owned businesses, the Institute for
Family Business ‘‘exceeded all expectations,”’
according to Robert P. Fure, director of
summer programs at W&L.

‘‘Our goal is to serve 20 companies an-
nually,’’ Fure said. ‘‘We are seeking multi-
generational representation—fathers and
sons, husbands and wives, brothers, and
other combinations—to study the issues,
such as succession planning, that are unique
to family businesses.”’

Meanwhile, more than 350 high school
students applied for admission to Summer
Scholars ’87. Established seven years ago, the
program offers a preview of college life to
students between their junior and senior
years in high school. From the applicants,
132 students from 30 states, Canada, and
Puerto Rico were selected for the program.

‘‘Summer Scholars is now nationally
recognized,’’ noted Fure. ‘‘The program en-
joys a solid reputation for its academics and
pre-college counseling. Also, our optional

 

 

pre-professional curricula give high school
students an unusual firsthand look at the
fields many of them are considering.”’

The popular Alumni Colleges offered
four full sessions, including two programs
that were held away from the campus—one
in Italy, the other in Canada—and a session
entitled ‘‘Patriots and Politicos: Perspectives
on American Politics’’ that included presen-
tations by author Tom Wolfe, 751, colum-
nist Charles McDowell, ’48, and former U.S.
Rep. M. Caldwell Butler.

The Office of Summer Programs also
coordinated three sessions of Elderhostel, the
national program for older adults; six sports
camps; a high school yearbook publishing
conference; and the W&L Institute for
Executives.

Fure has announced that James D. Far-
rar Sr., who had been serving as director of
alumni admissions at W&L, has been nam-
ed associate director of summer programs
and director of admissions for Summer
Scholars. In his new position, Farrar will also
supervise marketing for the Institute for
Family Business and the W&L Institute for
Executives.

Pee aia.

Full houses like this one for a lecture in th- "amily Business Institute were the rule during the

University’s 1987 summer programs.

 

Athletes, coaches go abroad

Two members of Washington and Lee’s
athletic faculty and several W&L athletes
spent part of their summer sharing their ex-
pertise with athletes in other parts of the
world.

Bill McHenry, ’54, W&L’s director of
athletics, coached an American football team
(not to be confused with an All-American
team) during a two-week stay in Italy. Spon-
sored by American Football International,
the trip featured clinics for local Italian
players and two all-star games against Italian
teams.

The American players, who paid their
own expenses, came from NCAA Division
II and III schools throughout the country
and included four from W&L: 1987
graduates Randy Brown and Bobby Wilson
and rising seniors John Packett and Chris
Jerussi.

**T encourage everyone on my staff to be
involved in these types of clinics,’” McHenry
said. ‘‘I can’t think of a more rewarding ex-
perience than sharing your knowledge with
people from another country.

‘*The trip was an educational experience
for both the American and the Italian
players. Our players learned a great deal
about a different culture while helping the
Italians to understand the game of football
better.”’

The American team won both games
(Randy Brown caught a touchdown pass in
each), visited many cities along the Mediter-
ranean coast, and helped spread some
goodwill.

‘“We were well-received everywhere we
went,’’ said Packett, W&L’s All-American
offensive tackle. ‘‘The Italians were very
eager to learn about American football. They
were very friendly and seemed grateful for
the chance to practice with us and play
against us.”’

The players on the Italian all-star team
were selected from a pool of 6,000 athletes
and were preparing for the European cham-
pionships. They were older and much big-
ger than their American opponents (their
average weight was 260 pounds per player
on the line, compared to 200 pounds for the
Americans). But according to Packett, they
had some difficulty with the intricacies of the
game.

‘*The Italians were big and strong, but
they had trouble handling the ball,’’ he said.
‘*T suspect that most Italians grow up play-
ing soccer and do not develop ball-handling
skills like Americans do.”’

While the Generals’ football delegation
was in Italy, head basketball coach Verne
Canfield was one of two American coaches

 

Posing at a stadium in Italy are (from left) Bobby Wilson, ’87; Randy Brown, ’87; Athletic
Director Bill McHenry, ’54; Chris Jerussi, *88; and John Packett, 88.

participating in a two-week clinic in Puli,
Yugoslavia.

The clinic is a component of the Yugosla-
vian basketball development program and in-
cluded coaches from throughout the coun-
try and players from 10 European nations.
Canfield was invited to attend by the Inter-
national Basketball Association.

‘“‘My experience in Yugoslavia was
tremendously rewarding,’’ Canfield said.
‘We were a group of people from all over
the world, but we had a common language:
international basketball.’’

Canfield was impressed by the caliber of
basketball at the clinic and reported that the
Yugoslavians are capable of producing one
of the world’s best teams.

‘**They have made a large commitment to
basketball and have instituted a _ well-
organized program,’’ Canfield observed.
‘They have found some big players and have
been developing their skills rapidly.’’

Canfield, who previously taught in two
U.S. State Department clinics in South
America, escorted Washington and Lee’s
basketball team on a five-nation European
tour last Christmas.

Cuny joins treasurer’s office

John E. Cuny, vice president of business
affairs at Belhaven College in Jackson,
Miss., has been named assistant trea-
surer/controller at Washington and Lee.

‘‘Mr. Cuny’s experience at Belhaven has
afforded him a breadth of knowledge and
experience that will be of benefit to us all,”’

said Lawrence W. Broomall, W&L treasurer,
in announcing the appointment.

A graduate of Loyola University in New
Orleans with a degree in accounting, Cuny
has been vice president of business affairs at
Belhaven College since August 1985. Prior
to that, he was controller/director of budgets
and finance at the Metropolitan Communi-
ty College in Omaha, Neb.

Cuny also served as controller at the
Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena,
Calif., assistant controller of the Continen-
tal Drilling Co. in Los Angeles, and assis-
tant complex controller and assistant plant
controller for the Continental Can Co. in
Birmingham and New Orleans.

L. Vernon Snyder, ’49, retires
as assistant treasurer

L. Vernon Snyder, assistant treasurer at
Washington and Lee for 13 years, retired
from that position at the end of August.

A 1949 graduate of W&L with a degree
in commerce, Snyder was a member of the
Phi Eta Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and Beta
Gamma Sigma honorary societies.

Prior to returning to his alma mater, he
worked with the Prudential Insurance Co.,
the Central Telephone Co., and the
Rockbridge County Board of Supervisors.
He became director of university services at
W&L in 1966 and was named assistant
treasurer in 1974.

Snyder is a member and former president
of the Kerrs Creek Ruritan Club and is an
elder at the Lexington Presbyterian Church.

W&L = 25

Alumni News

Varied Activities s Spice Summer Sor Chapters

‘Wy Nrom softball games to theatre outings,
: 4 from welcoming new students to the
di University family to informal discus-
sions with political candidates, Washington
and Lee alumni found plenty of reasons to
get together this summer.

According to the Alumni Office, at least
16 alumni chapters held receptions for in-
coming freshmen and first-year law students.
Most of these events were held in the homes
of W&L alumni.

Included among those chapters holding
such receptions were New Orleans, Northern
New Jersey, Middle Tennessee, Washington,
D.C., Cumberland Valley, Pensacola,
Florida West Coast, Northwest Louisiana,
Tidewater, Pittsburgh, New England,
Charlotte, Palmetto, Winston-Salem,
Westchester/Fairfield, and Mid-South.

Meantime, members of the Lynchburg
Chapter joined forces with VMI alumni to
journey across the mountain to Lexington in
mid-August to watch Stonewall Country, an
Original musical that is performed outdoors
in the Lime Kilm Theatre. W&L alumnus
Don Baker, ’68, is the guiding force behind
the unusual theatre, which continues to draw
rave reviews from throughout the region.

Down in New Orleans, members of that
chapter have been participating with alum-
ni from eight other colleges in an interesting
program in which they have been meeting for
cocktails and conversation with candidates
for state and national offices. The sessions
do not represent endorsements of a particular
candidate but only give the participants an
opportunity to ask questions and discuss
matters informally.

The New Orleans Chapter was also
among those battling on the softball dia-
mond this summer. This time, a team of
alumni squared off against a team of current
students. Elsewhere, the Atlanta Chapter
defended the University’s honor against a
team representing Sewanee while the
Southern Ohio and Cleveland chapters were
doing the same against Virginia Wahoos in
those two areas. ©

When its members weren’t embarrassing
the Wahoos on the softball field, the
Cleveland Chapter was helping the Ohio
Delegation for the 1988 Mock Democratic
Convention get off to a successful start with

26 W&L

   

 

 

 

Message Yeon the Alumni President

Dear Fellow Alumni:

Your Alumni Board recently concluded one of its most successful years under
the leadership of our immediate past president, Sandy Walton, ’62, ’65L. Much was
accomplished, yet our agenda remains full for 1987-88.

Our mission, as always, is to serve as a bridge between you, the alumni, and our
University. All of our activities are devoted to serving your needs and those of our
future alumni, communicating to you about activities at the University, and assisting
the administration, whenever possible, in furthering the aims and goals of Washington
and Lee.

A great portion of our work is accomplished through the extensive network of
83 alumni chapters which are the strength and vitality of the Alumni Association.
It is often difficult for Dick Sessoms, Jimmy Farrar, et al to visit the chapters as
often as they desire to keep you apprised of ‘‘goings on’’ at Washington and Lee.
Therefore, to assist the staff, we have implemented a ‘‘Regional Alumni Director’’
program so that members of the Alumni Board will have an opportunity to visit with
you personally and share their message about W&L.

Many other plans are being made to encourage chapter development, including
a special conference for chapter presidents to be held in conjunction with Homecoming
weekend on Oct. 9-11. This promises to be an exciting and informative event for our
chapter leaders and will serve to ‘‘re-invigorate’’ them as they have an opportunity
to walk down the Colonnade again.

_A-new Chapter Recognition Program is being planned to single out chapters that
are doing a superior job of promoting W&L, enhancing its image, encouraging ad-
missions, etc. This program will also recognize outstanding ideas and activities of
creative chapters. Annual awards will be given to those chapters that stand above
the crowd.

You will be pleased to know that the first floor of the Alumni House has recently
undergone a complete renovation and redecoration made possible by the generous
contributions of the Cadaver Society and the Class of ’37. The Alumni House has
been transformed into a facility the entire Washington and Lee community can be
proud of and utilize frequently.

Our prototype Career Assistance Programs in Atlanta, Washington, and Roanoke
have received a real shot in the arm with the arrival on campus of Rick Heatley,
associate dean of students. Dean Heatley is responsible for career development at
W&L and will shoulder the primary responsibility for this program. Your Alumni
Board developed the Career Assistance Program to help our students in job place-
ment, but also we recognized the advantage it provides to alumni who are prospec-
tive employers of our graduates but find W&L too far away to recruit.

In the view of your Alumni Board, the atmosphere at Washington and Lee is very
positive. The coeducation issue has subsided, partly because of the tremendous quality
of the students on campus—both in academic and extracurricular pursuits. One ex-
tremely important sign of the University’s vitality is evidenced by the 1987 Annual
Fund, which set records in every category.

On behalf of the Alumni Board, I can assure you that we will strive to keep in
touch with you and to communicate issues of interest. Please contact any Alumni
Board member to share your views. Your feedback is valuable.

Yours very truly,
JOHN W. FoLsom, 773

 

 

 

Alumni Association President |

 

UPPER POTOMAC—At an August meeting were (first row, from
left) Farris Hotchkiss, vice president for development and University
relations; Beth Miller, *89L; Joyce Stewart, ’87L; Al Darby Jr., 43;
(second row, from left) Donald W. Mason, ’51L; L. Leslie Helmer,

°35; Rev. Edward C. Chapman, ’70; Thomas N. Berry, °38; and

David M. Marsh, 83.

   
  

Saks

OQE2—Members of the

 

are (from left) Scott Sigmund, ’90, and his father, Don Sigmund, ’59.

a reception kicking off the fund-raising ac-
tivities for the delegation to the event
scheduled for March 1988.

Three clubs—Augusta-Rockingham,
Blue Ridge, and Rockbridge—joined forces
and escaped from the oppressive August heat
by taking advantage of Skylark, the Univer-
sity’s retreat on the Blue Ridge Parkway, for
a picnic.

Vice President for University Relations
Farris Hotchkiss was the special guest of the
Upper Potomac Chapter for a meeting in
August.

President John D. Wilson journeyed to
Oklahoma to meet with the Tulsa and
Oklahoma City chapters, also in August.

Members of the Tidewater Chapter par-

   

W&L alumni group that sailed from New York
to England on the QE2 included (from left) Sally Sessoms; Shorty
Murray, ’50; Thorp Minister, ’49; and Rhoda Minister.

 

WESTERN CAROLINA—Members of the newly formed Western
Carolina Chapter (seated, from left) Simon Smith, ’91, and Karl
Koon, ’78; (standing, from left) Perry Bartsch, ’76; Ted DeLaney,
*85; Jim Moody, ’37; Norm Smith, ’37; and Al Reese, ’85.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY—From left, Faith Power; Curtis Power,
77, incoming chapter president; Ted Gregory, ’75, outgoing chapter

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM, BLUE RIDGE, ROCKBRIDGE—At
Skylark (from left) Cathy Deighan of Charlottesville; Chris Deighan,
87; Mike Deighan, ’80; his wife, Mary, and their son, Justin.

president; and Helen Gregory.

ticipated in the annual ‘‘Summer Mixer’’
with alumni of Sweet Briar, Mary Baldwin,
and Hampden-Sydney in July.

The Orange County Chapter joined
alumni from numerous other colleges for the
12th Annual Irrelevant Night at the Univer-
sity of California at Irvine. The W&L
representatives were urged to wear blue and
white and practice ‘‘The Swing”’ to add a bit
of class (if not relevance) to the event.

Among the other chapter events during
the summer months were the 7th Annual
Sunset Cocktail Party of the San Diego
Chapter, a summer luncheon for the
Philadelphia Chapter, a summer social for
the Cumberland Valley Chapter, and a
spring cocktail party at which members of

the Baltimore and Delmarva chapters got
together.

*

New Chapter Presiden
Charleston, S.C.—Richard W. Salmons,
’Jr., 81;
Charlotte—William D. Clark, ’82;
Chattanooga—J. Clay Crumbliss, ’80;
Cumberland Valley—Curtis Power, ’77;
Denver—Andrew W. Bodenstab, ’80;
Middle Tennessee—Michael E.
Lawrence, ’66;
Palmetto—Russell Z. Plowden, 81;
Pittsburgh—John P. Stafford, ’79;
San Antonio—Christopher D. Schram,
83;
San Diego—Max L. Elliott, ’60.
W&L 27

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$175.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

NOTE: As of July 1, 1987, the manufacturer is six months behind filling orders.

 

 

28

W&L

Joseph W. McDonald Jr. and his wife enjoyed last
fall’s return to Lexington for the ‘‘Old Guard’’
reunion. He is still working as president and owner
of McDonald Bros. in Memphis, Tenn.

John Minor Wisdom celebrated his 30th anniver-
sary on the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit in July. In addition to being
awarded an honorary degree from Middlebury
College in May (as reported in the July/August
issue of the Alumni Magazine), Harvard Univer-
sity also awarded him an LL.D. degree in June.

1928

Willett C. Magruder, senior warden of St.
Margaret’s Episcopal Church in Palm Desert,
Calif., participated in a ground-breaking ceremony
for the construction of a $3.5 million church
building. He raised shovels with fellow church
members former President Gerald Ford, former
Ambassador to France Leonard Firestone, and the
Rev. Brad Hall, rector. Hayden D. Austin, 49,
and his wife, Virginia, attended the ceremony.

938

John C. White is happily retired in Naples, Fla.,
where he plays tennis every day.

John C. White (See 1938).

1941

Allen T. Macaulay is retired from The Record,
although he still writes the ski column for the
Hackensack, N.J., newspaper. Activities of the
Eastern Ski Writers Association keep him and his
wife busy throughout the winter. In the summer,
they hunt down the British and Hessians with their
associates of an 18th-century militia group. They
spend weekends at their camp in the Poconos and
any spare time sewing replicas of rare 13-star flags.

Robert P. (Ty) Tyson retired in February 1987
from Yankee Publishing Inc., the publishers of
Yankee Magazine and The Old Farmer’s Almanac.
He served as district advertising sales manager in
the mid-Atlantic region and now lives in Kennett

Square, Pa.
949

Everette L. Taylor Jr. has retired as a physician
and lives in Sparta, N.C.

50

Robert B. (Blake) James Jr. retired in May after
serving nine years with the law firm of Braude,
Margulies, Sacks & Raphan in Washington, D.C.
Prior to entering private practice in 1978, he was
chief administrative judge in the General Service
Administration Board of Contract Appeals. Liv-
ing in Annandale, Va., he now plans to travel,
golf, attend garage sales, and play with the
grandchildren.

F. Alden Murray Jr. was recently appointed ex-
ecutive vice president of Beatty Leasing and

 

Development Corp. in McLean, Va. He is respon-
sible for all planning and development of current
and future projects.

Alan G. Seal is retired from the Central In-
telligence Agency and is associated with Valley
Real Estate Inc. in Kihei on the Hawaiian island
of Maui. He and his wife settled on Maui to be
closer to their three daughters and four grandsons.

1951

John K. Boardman Jr. recently completed a term
as chairman of the board of the American Fur-
niture Manufacturers Association. He is president
of Sam Moore Furniture Industries in Bedford,

Va.
1952

David E. Constine Jr. is vice chairman of the real
estate firm of Morton G. Thalhimer Inc. in Rich-
mond. He is a member of the International Coun-
cil of Shopping Centers and the Institute of Real
Estate Management.

1954

Joseph L. Lanier Jr. received an honorary doc-
torate from Auburn University in June. He is
chairman and chief executive officer of West Point
Pepperell Inc. He lives in Lanett, Ala.

Sedgwick L. Moss began a three-year term in
January on the vestry at Trinity Episcopal Church

in Arlington, Va.
1955

Frederic M. P. (Monte) Pearse is director of a com-
prehensive alcoholism treatment program at
Longwood Treatment Center in Boston. The pro-
gram, one of the first of its kind in the country,
treats multiple drunk-driving offenders in a
minimum security jail.

1956

Leonard C. Greenebaum recently represented
Robert Owen in the public television hearings in-
vestigating the Iran/Contra network. He is one of
the few lawyers to represent both Watergate and
Irangate clients.

John A. McQuiggan will be co-producer of Simon
Gray’s The Common Pursuit, which will run in
the West End when it returns to London in March.
The play has run at the Long Wharf in New
Haven, at the Matrix in Los Angeles, and at the
Promenade Theater in New York.

1957

H. Merrill Plaisted III was promoted from senior
vice president to president of the Richmond real
estate firm of Morton G. Thalhimer. He is a
member of the Society of Industrial and Office

Realtors.
1958

Leonard C. Greenebaum (See 1956).

William Philip Laughlin is working in Alexandria,
Va., with Clean Site Inc., a company that cleans
up hazardous waste sites. He is ‘‘on loan’’ from
the Project Management Department of Exxon
Research and Engineering, where he has worked

for 20 years.
1959

Lester H. Waskins is vice president and on the
management committee and board of directors of
Reliable Stores Inc., a chain of 200 jewelry and
specialty furniture stores based in Columbia, Md.

1960

H. Gerald Shields is director of studies at the In-
ternational School of Brussels in Belgium.

 

1961

William B. McWilliams is managing director of
Community Capital’s Raleigh regional office. He
is responsible for the capital
raising activities for financial
institutions in the Southeast.
Community Capital, a divi-
sion of Ryan, Beck & Co.,
arranges marketing of stock
for thrift institutions that
want to convert from mutual
to stock ownership.

1962

Stephen R. Chernay is practicing pediatrics in
Fishkill, N.Y., and having some success at Bel-
mont, Aqueduct, and Saratoga racing the horses
he breeds.

Joseph L. Goldstein was elected to the status of
member emeritus of the Texas Medical Associa-
tion for his exceptional and distinguished service
to scientific medicine.

Elliott C. L. Maynard finished a year as consul-
tant coordinator and secondary education
specialist for the Hopi tribe in northern Arizona
on June 30. He was editor and coordinator of a
comprehensive set of educational goals and stan-
dards for the new $20 million Hopi Junior/Senior
High School, which opened its doors in September
1986. He also wrote Input by the Hopi Community
Members on the Hopi Educational System, a con-
temporary anthropological synthesis of Hopi at-
titudes and opinions, and wrote Computers and
Related Technology in the Hopi Educational
System.

Wesley Roche Ostergren received the juris doctor
degree from Mississippi College in May 1987.

1963

Daniel T. Balfour wrote The Thirteenth Virginia
Cavalry, a history of the regiment that recounts
the leadership of Robert E. Lee. The book was
published by Howard Publishing Co. as part of
the Virginia Regimental History Series.

Richard G. Elliott Jr. is president of the board of
trustees of the Historical Society of Delaware. He
is a partner in the Wilmington, Del., law firm of
Richards, Layton & Finger.

Stephen E. Guild is the owner of Results Plus, a
Seattle company that works with growing,
medium-sized businesses in the development and
delivery of training programs.

George W. Harvey Jr. is vice president and direc-
tor of radio operations for Family Group Broad-
casting in Tampa, Fla. He is responsible for six
radio stations in Key West; Tampa; Beaumont,
Texas; and St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

Edwin P. McCaleb is a member of the agent com-
pany relations committee of Independent In-
surance Agents of Virginia. He lives in Belle
Haven.

Thomas P. Rideout was elected vice chairman of
First Union National Bank of North Carolina in
June. He joined the corporation in August 1986
as senior vice president and director of governmen-
tal affairs. He lives in Charlotte.

William H. Spencer-Strong II practices obstetrics
and gynecology in a Baltimore office with Albert
H. Dudley Jr., 44.

Edward Brent Wells II is controller of operations
for the Eastern operations division of Xerox. He
works closely with classmate Arthur H. Portnoy.

 

1964

MARRIAGE: Joseph R. Burkart and Susan H.
Reber of Wilmington, Del. The couple lives in New
York City. Burkart is on the board of trustees of
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, the oldest
specialty hospital in the western hemisphere.

Sydney J. Butler joined The Wilderness Society
staff in August as vice president of conservation.
Preventing oil and gas leasing in the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge is Butler’s immediate con-
cern. He is a partner in the Washington, D.C., of-
fice of Barnett & Alagia, a law firm with head-
quarters in Louisville, Ky., and seven offices
throughout the Southeast.

Frederick J. Krall joined Estee Corp. as vice presi-
dent of marketing in January 1987. He and his
wife, Susan, and their daughters, Jen, 15, and
Kate, 11, will be leaving Pennsylvania to return
to New Jersey.

Dr. Thomas C. Lewis is assistant professor of
anesthesiology at Vanderbilt University Hospital.

Dr. Richard W. McEnally,
the Meade H. Willis pro-
fessor of investment banking
at the University of North
Carolina’s Graduate School
of Business Administration,
has been elected president of
the North Carolina Society
of Securities Analysts.

Jerome Turner was nominated by the Reagan ad-
ministration as U.S. district judge of the Western
District of Tennessee. Turner, a partner in the
Memphis law firm of Wildman, Harrold, Allen,
Dixon & McDonnell since 1978, was one of three
choices submitted to the White House in early
February. The Senate must confirm the
nomination.

Pennington H. Way III is senior vice president of
Reliance Brokerage Corp., a new unit of Reliance
Group Holdings in New York City. He is respon-
sible for establishing a division to write specialty
casualty insurance. He lives in Darien, Conn.

1965

Gordon L. Archer is professor of medicine and
microbiology/immunology at the Medical College
of Virginia.

Daniel T. Balfour (See 1963).
William B. McWilliams (See 1961).

66

William T. Deyo Jr. is now executive vice presi-

, dent of The First National
Bank of Atlanta and is
responsible for all corporate
banking programs in
Georgia. He serves on the
board of The Museum of
Science and Technology. He
and his wife, Sue, live in
northwest Atlanta with their

two children.

Robert B. Hudson is professor of social welfare
policy at the Boston University School of Social
Work.

Thomas T. Robertson works in the Boston office
of Towers, Perrin, Forster, and Crosby, a manage-
ment consulting firm. He and his wife, Emy, live
in West Falmouth, Mass., with their three children,
Kelly, John, and Tom.

 
  

W. Court Soloff is a security consultant in the San

W&L 29

 

Angelo, Texas, firm he established in 1984. He per-
forms investigative services for corporations and
their outside counsel, focusing mainly on white-
collar crime. He participates in the Society of
Former Special Agents of the FBI and in the
American Society for Industrial Security.

Jerome Turner (See 1964).

Dr. Frederick E. Wood Jr. is a senior analyst with
Meridian Corp., a government consulting firm
with a major business practice in renewable energy.
As a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army Reserves,
he has served in a number of intelligence staff posi-
tions in the Maryland Army National Guard and
the 97th U.S. Army Reserve Command. He lives
in Columbia, Md., with his wife, Dee Sullivan, and
their two daughters, Kathleen, 6, and Mary
Elizabeth, 2. His son, Skip, is a freshman at W&L.

1967

Christopher F. Armstrong spent three weeks in
August teaching American students at Oxford
University. He taught a course titled ‘‘Class and
Character of Contemporary England.’’

Robert R. Black is head of the corporate and
securities law department of the Fairfield County
(Conn.) law firm of Cohen and Wolf. He and his
wife, Jane, live in Old Greenwich.

James C. Treadway Jr. is executive vice president
and general counsel at PaineWebber Inc. in New
York. He is also a member of the executive group
at PaineWebber, a full-service securities firm. He
joined PaineWebber in April, having previously
been a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm
of Baker & Botts. A former member of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, he is chair-
man of the National Commission on Fraudulent
Financial Reporting.

William S. Wildrick of San Diego, Calif., enjoyed
his May class reunion so much that he returned
to Lexington the following weekend to compete
in the W&L Triathlon, a competition in biking,
swimming, and running which is sponsored by the
ROTC department. Fraternity brothers George A.
Berger II, ’87, and Thomas G. Knight, ’87, sup-
plied the bike. Coach Dick Miller supported him
through the transitions.

1968

Richard K. Christovich finished a term as presi-
dent of the New Orleans Association of Defense
Counsel. He practices aviation product liability law
with Christovich & Kearney in New Orleans.

Parker A. Denaco was named the first neutral
chair of the Labor Council’s ABA Committee on
State and Local Government Collective Bargain-
ing in April. A practicing lawyer in Maine, he
serves as the executive director of the Maine Labor
Relations Board.

David B. Long is in his second year of law school
at CBN University in Virginia Beach, Va. He
worked for 18 years in sales/marketing and
construction.

Paul M. Neville, a Jackson, Miss., attorney, is the
author of ‘‘The Equal Protection Clause and the
Erosion of the Theoretical Foundations of
Bicameralism,”’ an article printed in the April 1986
issue Of the Mississippi Law Journal.

D. Whitney Thornton II resigned as president of
Continental Maritime Industries Inc. of San Fran-
cisco in April and rejoined the firm as a principal.

Charles B. Tomm is vice president and director
of mergers and acquisitions at Eberstadt Fleming
Inc. in New York City. Eberstadt Fleming is part

30 =W&L

 

of the Fleming Investment Banking Group, which
is based in London.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James R. Carson, a son,
William Owen, born in May 1986. Carson is in
the English department at Pace Academy in Atlan-
ta. In August, he attended the 1987 Festival of
Poetry at the Frost Place in Franconia, N.H.

James C. Hamill, an attorney at the Federal Trade
Commission, has been awarded the Victor H.
Kramer Fellowship and will be spending the
1987-88 academic year at Yale University.

Peter C. Manson Jr. earned an Exceptional Per-
formance Award from the Defense Research In-
stitute, a 13,000-member
association of defense and
trial lawyers. A member of
the Virginia Beach law firm
of Pender & Coward for 14
years, he served as president
of the Virginia Association
for Defense Attorneys and
was instrumental in setting
up new sections within the organization—one on
commercial defense and an ad-hoc committee for
legislative services.

Rev. W. William Melnyk has recently become rec-
tor of St. Aidan’s Episcopal Church in Ann Ar-
bor, Mich. He married Glenda Lorraine Bunting
in July 1987.

Steven C. Simon spent three weeks in Paris,
France, this summer as a temporary Christian mis-
sionary with Campus Crusade for Christ.

1970

Dr. Terry Gardner Austin is the psychologist for

an adult psychiatric unit at Northwest Georgia
Regional Hospital in Rome. He has relocated his
private practice to the Atlanta area.

Ray W. Dezern Jr. is a partner with the Norfolk,
Va., law firm of Knight, Dudley, Pincus, Dezern
& Clarke.

Robert Lee Entzminger has joined the faculty at
Rhodes College (formerly Southwestern at Mem-
phis), where he is professor of English and depart-
ment chair.

David R. Katz is a research specialist at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Extension Telecommunications
Laboratory. He earned his Ph.D. in communica-
tion arts (radio/television/film) from the univer-
sity in August 1986.

James H. Maloney’s law firm of Davenport and
Maloney has merged with the Richmond-based
firm of Coates and Comess to form Coates and
Davenport, which means Maloney is now practic-
ing with Tom Coates, ’66, ’69L, and John C.
Moore, ’66, ’73L. Maloney and his wife are the
parents of three sons, Campbell, Colin, and Gar-
rett, and a daughter, Daron Elizabeth, who was
born in 1986. They live in Fairfax, Va.

D. Whitney Thornton II (See 1968).

W. Whitlow Wyatt recently announced the for-
mation of Wyatt & Broos Securities Inc., an Atlan-
ta firm representing buyers and sellers in corporate
mergers, acquisitions, and leveraged buyout

transactions.
1971

John D. Copenhaver Jr. is chaplain and assistant
professor of religion at Shenandoah College and
Conservatory in Winchester, Va. In the spring, he
traveled for two weeks in Nicaragua with Witness

for Peace. While in Nicaragua, Linder attended
a memorial mass at Santa Maria de Los Angeles
Catholic Church in Managua for Benjamin Linder,
the American who was killed by the Contras dur-
ing Copenhaver’s stay.

Clark B. Leutze is assistant risk manager at Pratt
& Whitney in East Hartford, Conn.

John A. McNeil Jr. is a partner and president of
IDS Warehouse Inc. in Birmingham. A member
of the Mountain Brook city council, McNeil has
been called a ‘‘Pied Piper of children’s sports’’
because of his devotion to coaching soccer, soft-
ball, and basketball in the community.

G. Lee Millar II graduated magna cum laude from
the Mid-South School of Banking at Memphis
State University in May. He is a computer services
manager for InnoVision Inc., a subsidiary of
Union Planters National Bank in Memphis. As
vice chairman of the Shiloh Reenactment Associa-
tion, which organized the 125th anniversary of the
Civil War Battle of Shiloh, he welcomed a group
of Liberty Hall Volunteers from W&L. The
volunteers joined 6,000 ‘‘soldiers’’ in the largest
battle reenactment ever held. He and his wife,
Dabney, have two children, Casey, 7, and Meg, 4.

Dr. J. A. (Andy) Skelton II (See 1976).

Stephen A. Strickler is an attorney at the Norfolk,
Va., law firm of Knight, Dudley, Pincus, Dezern

& Clarke.
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John F. Watlington III,

a daughter, Ellen Bruce, on July 4, 1987. The fami-
ly lives in Richmond.

William T. Anderson is the assistant legal adviser
at the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Powers
of Europe in Casteau, Belgium.

Max F. Brantley was named assistant managing
editor of the Arkansas Gazette in June. He had
been city editor since January 1985 and has been
with the newspaper since 1973.

Gilbert S. (Bert) Meem Jr. recently transferred to
New York City as senior vice president and invest-
ment services coordinator with Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. He works with independent invest-
ment advisers from throughout the United States
who invest funds for both institutional and upper-
bracket retail investors. He and his wife, Knight,
have one son, Simrall.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Craig B. Jones, a son, Lee
Davis, born on Jan. 16, 1987. Jones resigned as
a partner of the law firm of King & Spalding in
February and became executive vice president of
New Market Development Co., a shopping center
developer with headquarters in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Andrew D. Staniar, a son,
Brenton James, on June 29, 1987. Staniar is direc-
tor of marketing for Welch Foods Inc. The fami-
ly lives in Sudbury, Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth J. Wernick, a son,
Kyle Gregory, on Feb. 11, 1987. Wernick works
in the Navy Office of General Counsel as an
associate counsel for personnel and labor law in
the Naval Sea Systems Command. The family lives
in Springfield, Va.

John Aaron is comptroller at Rowe Development
Co. in Glen Allen, Va. He and his wife live in
Richmond.

Peter C. Manson Jr. (See 1969).

Laurie A. McAlpine earned a master of divinity
from the University of the South in May. He was

 

ordained deacon on June 11 and is assistant rec-
tor at Trinity Episcopal Church in Myrtle Beach,
S.C.

Dr. James H. Beaty II is a pediatric orthopedic
surgeon at the Campbell Clinic in Memphis,
Tenn., where he lives with his wife, Terry, and
their two children, 5-year-old Eric and 1-year-old
Meredith.

Arthur Pennington Bolton III is general counsel
of The Medical College of Pennsylvania. He
previously served as vice president, general
counsel, and secretary of Healthcare Services of
America Inc. in Birmingham, Ala.

John Lee (Kirk) Kirkpatrick is vice president of
sales for Wax Works/Video Works, a national
video movie distributor. He heads a department
of 30 sales representatives and 10 outside represen-
tatives who serve more than 3,500 video retail
outlets in the Midwest. He lives in Owensboro,
Ky., with his 7-year-old daughter, Kelsey.

Stuart Ragland III is an associate with Merrill
Lynch Realty and is working in Montgomery and
Howard counties in Maryland. He lives in Colum-
bia with his wife, Lisa.

Allen S. Willingham specializes in civil litigation
as a partner in the Atlanta law firm of Powell,
Goldstein, Frazer & Murphy.

Beverly H. Wood has moved to Atlanta, where
he is senior vice president and manager of the
Employee Benefits Division of the Georgia Trust
Department for First National Bank of Atlanta,
a member bank of the First Wachovia Corp. He
had been with InterFirst Bank in Dallas, Texas,
for seven years.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Bonney Jr., a
daughter, Brittany Catherine, on July 10, 1986.
She joined a sister, 3-year-old Jessica.

Thomas G. Armstrong is assistant to the president
of Standard Steel Specialty Co. in Beaver Falls,
Pa. He, his wife, and their two daughters live in
Beaver, Pa.

Curtis E. Boswell Jr., general counsel for
Schneider Commercial Real Estate in California,
is assisting with the development of an office in
_ San Francisco.

James A. Cranford III is vice president of Walter
Dickinson Inc., a commercial and industrial real
estate brokerage firm in Jacksonville, Fla.

Donald D. Hogle is pursuing his master’s degree
in business administration from the Graduate
Business School of New York University. He is
college relations officer for Chemical Bank at the
corporate headquarters in New York City.

Samuel R. Lewis is a corporate attorney for Atlan-
tic Research Corp., which has its headquarters in
Alexandria, Va. He was formerly a corporate at-
torney for Systematics General Corp.

Dr. Preston R. Simpson moved to Fresno, Calif.,
in August 1986 to practice pathology at St. Agnes
Hospital.

Major Kim Stenson is serving with the 8th Army
in South Korea. He recently received his master
of arts degree in military history from Norwich
University. He was promoted to his present rank
in the U.S. Army earlier this year in Philadelphia,
where he had served a three-year tour that earned
him the Meritorious Service Medal (First Oak Leaf
Cluster).

Charles B. Tomm (See 1968).

Class of ’91 Legacies

The following is a list of
members of the Class of 1991 who
are children of Washington and Lee
alumni. The name of the freshman
is followed by the name of his or
her alumnus parent.

Anne Austin Armentrout

W. Scott Armentrout, 66L
Cary Callaway Baber

Edgar M. Baber, “59
Elizabeth Madison Baker

Dr. John W. Baker Jr., 64
Jeffrey Charles Baucum

Dr. Charles W. Baucum, 61
Daniel Spencer Bevill

Dr. Rardon D. Bevill lI, ’60
Kendrick James Blackwell

Worth T. Blackwell, 69
David Arthur Blank

Arthur Blank H, ’60
Christopher Laird Boone

Dr. E. Ross Kyger lll, 63
Robert Brooks Boswell

James M. Boswell, 57
Margaret Gibbs Boyd

William C. Boyd Ill, 62
Paul Tudor Jones Boyle

J. Bayard Boyle Jr., 58
Michael A. Brandt

Richard Brandt, 63
Charles David Broll Jr.

Charles D. Broll, 59, 62L
John Thornton Buchanan

Lenox B. Buchanan Jr., 57
Clare Eastham Chapoton

John E. Chapoton, 58
Rupert Fitzallan Chisholm II]

Dr. Rupert F. Chisholm Jr., 56
Christopher Gale Commander

Charles E. Commander Ill, 62
Sarah Wilder Conrad

Peter G. Conrad, 62
Allan Neil Crawford II]

A. Neil Crawford Jr., 63
Mignon Comer Crockard

Craig S. Crockard, 64
Anne Blake Culley

John O. Culley, 63, “67L
Michael Winston Danzansky

Stephen I. Danzansky, 61
Laura W. Dodge

Kent H. Dodge, 59
John Townsend Dukes

Gilbert F. Dukes Jr., 56
David V. Eakin

David V. Eakin, 61
Allen M. Ferguson Jr.

Allen M. Ferguson, ’60
William Branyon FitzGerald IV

William FitzGerald Ill, 56
Christopher Lee Flinn

Stanley H. Flinn Jr., 54
Larkin M. Fowler

Larkin M. Fowler Jr., 65, 68L
Virginia Tobin Gay

Edward J. Gay Ill, 61

Thomas Eliot Gottsegen
Dr. Marshall Gottsegen, 61

Ashley Moffat Harris
Wilmot L. Harris Jr., ‘63

Charles Caldwell Hart Jr.
Charles C. Hart, 63

Alexander Crawford Hitz
Alex M. Hitz, 42

Hugh Osgood House
Dr. Homer C. House, “59

Carol Louise Howson
Joseph P. Howson, ‘63

Linsly Marguerite Hunt
John W. Hunt, 65

John Alexander Kell
Christopher M. Kell, 65

Scott Carneal Kinkead
John B. Kinkead, 53

Thompson Mayo Lykes
Joseph T. Lykes Jr., 41

Andrew Berthold Manson
Robert H. Manson, 63, 69L

Susan Kelly Martone
Peter W. Martone, 67L

Stephanie Louise McNulty
Charlies S. McNulty lll, °74L

Duncan Lamar Miller
M. Daniel Miller Ill, 59

John Edward Miller Ill
John E. Miller Jr., 66

Mary Louise Moreland
J. Marvin Moreland Jr., 56

Brian Matthew Overbeck
Robert G. Callaway, 56

David Elliot Paget-Brown
lan Paget-Brown, 87L

Tara Hamilton Perkinson
Charles A. Perkinson Jr., 60

Paige Parsons Powell
Robert H. Powell lll, 64, 67L

John Vaden Quinn
Harold J. Quinn Jr., 54

Martha Schuyler Rideout
Thomas P. Rideout, 63

Robert Douglas Sale
Thomas D. Sale Jr., “56

Carolyn Virginia Smith
The late Edward P. 1. Smith Jr., “50L

Thomas Martin Spurgeon
Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr., 55

Jean Jennings Stroman
William M. Bowen, 61

John Sutton Stump 1V
John S. Stump Ill, 57L

Frederick Skip Sugarman
Dr. Frederick E. Wood Jr., 66

Samuel Barnette Tannahill Jr.
Samuel B. Tannahill, 58

Sumner Timberlake
Marshall Timberlake, 61

Brooke Linstead Tinley
Sidney H. Tinley Ill, 63

Frank Burney Turner Jr.
Frank B. Turner, 61

Tucker Matthew Walsh
E. Stephen Walsh, ‘64

Andrew Watson Waters
Henry J. Waters lll, 51

W&L 31

 

B. Harrison Turnbull is senior vice president and
chief financial officer of AMVEST Corp. in
Charlottesville, Va.

Dr. Duncan F. Winter is currently a fellow in the
department of ophthalmology at the Albany
Medical Center. He is also an emergency medicine
physician at Samaritan Hospital in Albany. He and
his wife, Delphine, are the parents of a daughter,
Cornelia Monique Marcel, who was born in
November 1986.

1976
MARRIAGE: Scott T. Vaughn and Janice

Wegener on July 19, 1986. The two are attorneys
with House, Wallace & Jewell in Little Rock, Ark.

Robert L. Amsler moved from the International
Division to the Commercial Division of Central
Fidelity Bank in Vienna, Va., in April.

Ernest W. Bartlett III is managing director of cor-
porate finance for Bankers Trust Co. in Los
Angeles.

William E. Birbick is a consulting automation
engineer in the Nuclear Fuel Products Division of
the Automation Technology Department of
General Electric Co. in Wilmington, N.C.

Hiram Ely III is one of 45 local leaders in business,
government, education, religion, and the arts
selected by the Leadership Louisville (Ky.) Foun-
dation to participate in the 1987-88 community
education program. He is with the firm of
Greenebaum, Doll & McDonald.

H. Mynders Glover is a management consultant
specializing in strategic planning and team-building
for corporations based in Atlanta. He owns the
firm, Management Impact Systems.

James H. Maloney (See 1970).

Dr. Vernon E. O’Berry Jr. is beginning his second
year of private dentistry practice in Virginia Beach.

Marinus (Marty) Quist is assistant general counsel
with Tidewater Inc. He and his wife, Kathy, live
in Covington, La., with their four children,
Juliana, 8, Niko, 6, Krystina, 3, and Kees, 1.

Dr. Gary W. Seldomridge is chief resident in oral
and maxillofacial surgery at University Hospital
of Jacksonville, which is affiliated with the Univer-
sity of Florida. He also serves in the U.S. Navy
Reserves. He and his wife, Karen, live in Ponte
Vedra Beach.

Dr. J. A. (Andy) Skelton II has been promoted
to associate professor of psychology at Dickinson
College in Carlisle, Pa. He conducts research on
the social psychology of health and illness and has
recently presented papers at conferences of the
American, Midwestern, and Canadian
Psychological Associations. He is co-editing a
book on lay people’s conceptualizations of health
problems.

Dr. Paul K. Stillwagon practices adult and
pediatric allergy and immunology in Winchester,
Va., where he lives with his wife, Ann, and their
two sons, Matthew, 2, and Bradford, 1.

1977
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. William G. Brothers, a
daughter, Carrie Anne, on Dec. 7, 1986. Brothers
received a certification from the American Board
of Anesthesiologists in April and _ practices
anesthesiology at Riverside Hospital in Newport
News, Va.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. Warren T. Wolfe, a son,
Warren Randall Taylor, on Nov. 11, 1986. Wolfe
is a judge advocate for the U.S. Marine Corps sta-
tioned in Beaufort, S.C.

32. W&L

Dr. H. Cobb Alexander completed his residency
in orthopedics in July and will spend a year in
Boston on a postgraduate fellowship.

Michael J. Burns is a member of the technical staff
at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J. He
recently completed a two-year sabbatical at the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration
Johnson Space Center in Houston. He and his
wife, Wendy, live in Red Bank, N.J., with their
two dogs, Eli and Annie.

R. Douglas Hunter started a business in
Charleston, S.C. Integrated Medical Services Inc.
specializes in billing and accounts receivable col-
lection for medical subspecialties.

Robert K. Lyford is an agent with American
Mutual Insurance Cos. in Atlanta where he, his
wife, Nancy, and their son, Robert Daniel, 1, live.

1978
MARRIAGE: John L. Bruch III and Anne Ben-

nett Laurenson Carroll in Baltimore on Feb. 7,
1987. The couple lives in Owings Mills, Md.

MARRIAGE: Benjamin B. Swan and Emily
Fuhrer in Sewanee, Tenn., on June 20, 1987.

A. Michael Airheart is vice president of NCNB Na-
tional Bank of Florida and manages corporate
banking for southern Pinellas County. He joined
the bank in 1984 as a credit analyst.

John A. Balistreri opened a firm in San Diego that
specializes in business transactions and interna-
tional importing, exporting, and licensing. After
earning his law degree from the University of
Oklahoma in 1981, he practiced with the San Diego
firm of Gray Cary Ames & Frye.

Robert M. Couch is general counsel and chief
financial officer of First Commercial Bancshares
Inc. in Birmingham.

Mark L. Dicken left the private practice of law
in August 1986 to serve as pastor of the Trafalgar-
Mount Olive United Methodist Churches in In-
diana. He is pursuing a master’s degree in divini-
ty at Christian Theological Seminary.

Mark A. Peterson is on a temporary leave from
the private practice of law to serve as principal law
assistant to Judge Saverio J. Fierro of the New
York Supreme Court.

Mark A. Putney is director of development at
Charter Properties Inc. in Richmond.

W. Gordon Ross II is in private banking with
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York City.
He received a master’s degree from Columbia
University’s School of International and Public
Affairs in December.

Gregory C. Sieminski is an instructor of English
at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.

Dr. Brian P. Tray is chief resident in obstetrics
and gynecology at the University of Maryland
Hospital, where he earned his medical degree in
1984. He and his wife, Paige, live in Baltimore.

1979
MARRIAGE: Dr. Edward M. Adler and Dr.
Rachel Ostry on April 12, 1987. Adler is a resi-
dent in orthopedic surgery at University Hospital
in Newark, N.J. The couple lives in Florham Park.

MARRIAGE: James O. Davis III and Peggy Bes-
sent in Tampa on Oct. 11, 1986.

MARRIAGE: Alan S. Guyes and Deborah Smith
in Roanoke, Va., on April 5, 1987. Guyes and
W&L classmate John H. Ferguson own
Audiotronics Inc., a group of audio stores in
Roanoke and Richmond.

  

MARRIAGE: Harry E. (Hank) Hall and Allison
Joy Straughn in Winston-Salem, N.C., on Sept.
13, 1986. Groomsmen included James M.
Goulden, ’80, Tracy A. White, ’79, J. Thad Ellis,
’82, and David A. Newman, ’79. Hall is employed
with Walker & Dunlop Southeast Inc., a commer-
cial real estate and financial services firm in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jean-Jacques Landers Car-
nal, a son, Henri Landers Boyd, on Aug. 5, 1987.
Boyd joins a brother, Will, 2. Carnal is with the
fixed income division of Centerre Trust Co. in St.
Louis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James H. Flippen III, a
daughter, Kathryn Elizabeth, on Feb. 28, 1987.
The family lives in Norfolk, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stuart M. Jones, a
daughter, Stephanie, in March. They have one
other daughter and live in Raleigh, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David C. Pace, a son,
William Alban II, on March 1, 1987. Pace is
employed with the firm of Mays & Valentine in
Richmond.

Lowell R. Buckner III is employee relations ad-
viser for the Southeast region of the plastics divi-
sion of Mobil Chemical Co. He and his wife, Amy,
live in Conyers, Ga., with their daughter, Amanda.

Susan Hamilton Churuti is county attorney for
Pinellas County in Florida. She lives in St.
Petersburg.

Dr. Mark F. Prysi is chief resident of plastic
surgery at the University of Tennessee in Chat-
tanooga. He hopes to obtain a craniofacial surgery
fellowship.

= Thomas B. Rentschler Jr.
has been named vice presi-
dent of Liebel & Company
Advertising in Cincinnati.
He joined the firm in 1983
and has served in various
y levels of account manage-
a ment since that time.

A. Jeffrey Somers is an assistant corporation
counsel for the city of Meriden, Conn. He lives
in Wallingford with his wife, Beverly, and their
3-year-old son, Michael.

1980

MARRIAGE: Stephen J. McCabe and Gretchen
Wylegala in Lake View, N.Y., on Oct. 18, 1986.
McCabe is copy editor and writer for the American
Humanist Association and its bimonthly magazine,
The Humanist, in Amherst, N.Y. The couple lives
in Buffalo.

MARRIAGE: Christopher W. Ware and Jennifer
Walker on Aug. 15, 1987. The couple lives in
Orlando, Fla., where he has purchased a division
of the family’s air conditioning and refrigeration
wholesale supply business.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Andrew D. King, a son,
Zachary Andrew, on July 24, 1987. The family
lives in Alpharetta, Ga.

William W. Bryant is a certified public attorney
with Hartsfield & Co. He lives with his wife in
Tallahassee, Fla.

Leslie A. Cotter Jr. is beginning his second year
of private practice with the law firm of Richard-
son, Plowden, Grier and Howser in Columbia,
S.C., where he lives with his wife, Elizabeth.

Hamilton C. Davis III is in Tokyo on a one-year
assignment for Continental Bank. He trades U.S.

 

treasury bonds and assorted other financial in-
struments in the Tokyo market.

Gary Langan Goodenow is associated with the
New York law firm of Hughes, Hubbard & Reed
at the firm’s office in Miami, where he lives with
his wife, Mary.

Lawrence K. Gumprich is controller and chief
financial officer with Woodland Industries Inc.,
a manufacturer of doors, furniture, and specialty
displays. He is also treasurer of Big Brothers and
Big Sisters of Metropolitan Richmond.

Scott G. McLam is regional manager for Franco
Manufacturing Co. He lives in Chicago.

Dr. Howard Martin Metzger Jr. received a doc-
tor of medicine degree from the Hahnemann
University School of Medicine in Philadelphia. He
will complete a family practice residency at the
University of Colorado in Denver. He is a first
lieutenant in the U.S. Army.

Kenneth B. Terwilleger has been named vice presi-
dent and associate general counsel of American
Security Bank in
Washington, D.C. He is
responsible for administering
general legal advice and ser-
vices for the bank, which has
a network of 30 branch of-
fices in Washington, D.C.,
as well as offices in Fairfax
and Richmond, Va. He is a
member of the District of Columbia Bar Associa-
tion and is a professor at the American Institute

of Banking.
1981

BIRTH: Deborah Kaye Hughes Cruze and Gary
Cruze, a daughter, Rebecca Danielle, on March
25, 1987. She joined a 5-year-old sister, Melissa,
and 3-year-old brother, Aaron. Cruze is a part-
time business professor at Glendale Community
College in Arizona and is a member of the Glen-
dale Housing Authority Commission.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Hassinger, a
daughter, Jenna Leigh, on April 6, 1987, in
Sellersville, Pa.

 

The Rev. Charles F. Bahn Jr. is in his second year
as associate minister of Webster Groves Christian
Church in St. Louis. In June, he accompanied the
church’s high school youth choir on its annual tour
to Indianapolis, Cleveland, and New York. In
August, he directed an Appalachian Service Camp
for youth in eastern Tennessee.

Gerard L. Broccoli is northeast regional operations
food specialist for the Army-Air Force Exchange
Services, based at Cameron Station in Alexandria,
Va. He was commissioned as a eucharistic minister
in the Catholic church for the archdiocese of
Washington, D.C., in September 1986.

Claude B. Colonna Jr. is assistant production
manager of desserts at General Foods’ largest
manufacturing facility in Dover, Del.

Gene A. Marsh, associate professor of economics,
finance, and legal studies at the University of
Alabama, won the Burlington-Northern Founda-
tion award for faculty excellence. The award car-
ries a $3,000 stipend.

George A. Polizos is vice president of Arthur
Polizos Associates Inc., an advertising and public
relations agency in Norfolk, Va. He recently earn-
ed an M.B.A. degree from the College of William
and Mary.

John A. Pritchett is senior geophysicist with
Amoco Production Co. He is working on the

development of natural gas fields in the Gulf of
Mexico off the Texas coast.

1982
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Bedford, a
daughter, Shannon Cody, on May 8, 1987. She
joined a brother, James. The family lives in
Baltimore, where Bedford is an associate with the
law firm of Cable, McDaniel, Bowie & Bond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Griffith Jr., a
son, Charles Dee, on May 27, 1987. He joined two
brothers, 10-year-old Christopher and 8-year-old
Matthew. The family lives in Norfolk, Va.

Joseph A. Benson III is director of sales for
Strategic Marketing Group, a direct mail
marketing and fund-raising organization located
in Herndon, Va.

Cary R. Bond is associated with the law firm of
Hillyer & Irwin in San Diego.

Robert M. Couch (See 1978).

William J. Garrity is an associate with the law firm
of Hedrick, Eatmon, Gardner & Kincheloe in
Charlotte. He attended Wake Forest University
law school.

David E. Jensen is accounting manager of the lend-
ing administration department with Boston Five
Cents Savings Bank in Boston.

Alan S. Kendrick graduated from U.S. Air Force
Undergraduate Pilot Training as an Air National
Guard officer in July.

Dr. Gilson J. Kingman, a 1987 graduate of the
University of Virginia School of Medicine, has
begun a residency in surgery at the Indiana Univer-
sity Medical Center in Indianapolis.

William T. Robinson is employed with the law firm
of Cooper, German, Kelly & Purcell in Pittsburgh.
He has two children, Katherine Elizabeth, 5, and
Elliott Taylor, 2.

MARRIAGE: John F. Delehanty and Robin Fair-
fax Taylor on June 27, 1987. The couple lives in
New York City.

MARRIAGE: Andrew McKenzie Taylor and Gret-
chen Scruggs on June 20, 1987. The couple lives
in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: Anthony J. (Zack) Zaccagnini and
Nancy Corinne Rogers on March 28, 1987.
Groomsmen included Steven H. Abraham, ’80,
’83L; Henry M. Bond, ’85; Robert S. Carpenter,
83; and Charles H. (Hall) Vetterlein Jr., ’82. Zac-
cagnini is a law clerk with the Hon. Frank E.
Cicone, chief judge and administrative judge for
the 3rd Circuit Court for the state of Maryland.
Zaccagnini graduated from the University of
Baltimore School of Law in 1986 and passed the
Maryland bar exam in May 1987.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark Robert Carduner, a
daughter, Melissa Virginia, on Dec. 19, 1986. The
family lives in Cranbury, N.J.

Thomas J. Bronner is assistant vice president of
Lloyds International Corp. in New York City,
where he handles real estate and corporate finance
transactions.

Lawrence Robert Duffee is director of production
scheduling for Anvil Knitwear in Mullins, S.C. He
is responsible for the operations and purchasing
for three plants. He and his wife, Keene, live in
Florence, S.C.

Jonathan R. Kelafant is head geologist for the
energy division of Lewin and Associates in
Washington, D.C. He earned an M.S. in geology
from George Washington University in 1986.

Michael E. Layne is branch manager of Signet
Bank’s Wards Road office in Lynchburg, Va.

G. Amory LeCuyer is manager of the lubricants
division of York Cos. in Newport News, Va.

 

W&L 33

 

Edward J. (Jay) O’Brien IV resigned from Brown-

Forman Corp. as a systems analyst to pursue an >

M.B.A. degree from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. In January, he passed
along the office of president of the Bachelors Club
of Louisville to his cousin, Thomas G. O’Brien,
’84. The club, which has E. Bruce Blythe III, ’84,
on its board of directors, raises funds for local
charitable organizations.

E. Ralph Paris III works in the international
department of Guy Carpenter and Co. Inc. in New
York City. He accepted the position in the rein-
surance intermediary company after earning a
master’s degree from the American Graduate
School of International Management
(Thunderbird).

George Martin Thomas joined Playtex Inc. in
February as manager of debt administration. He
and his wife, Tricia, live in Dover, Del., with their
daughter, Breana, 2.

John C. Vlahoplus served as a summer associate
at Sullivan & Cromwell in Washington, D.C. He
is pursuing a juris doctor degree from Harvard
Law School and a doctorate in legal philosophy
from Oxford University.

Reen D. Waterman Jr. is vice president of a real
estate company in Queenstown, Md., where he
works with his brother, Barry P. Waterman, ’84,
and Richard P. Schoenberg, ’85. In August, he
traveled to Africa for a hunting safari.

MARRIAGE: David C. Adams and Katie Ewald
on June 20, 1987, in Charlottesville, Va.

MARRIAGE: W. Whitney Kelley and Patricia
Leigh Schmuck on June 27, 1987. The wedding
party included classmates Edwin V. Bell, E. Bruce
Blythe III, Peter G. Collins, Emery Ellinger III,
Jeffrey W. Maddox, Thomas W. Pritchard,
Thomas W. Sackfield, and Jeff R. Shaffer. E.
Randall Hudson III, ’83, Daniel L. Tatum, ’85,
and Marshall R. Young, ’85, were also members
of the wedding party. The couple lives in Fort
Worth, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Barry P. Waterman, a son,
Kevin Michael, on June 4, 1987. Waterman and
his brother, Reen D. Waterman Jr., ’83, sell real
estate in Chester, Md.

Robert G. Buchanan Jr. works in the corporate
division of the law firm of Cowles & Thompson
in Dallas. He is a 1987 graduate of Southern
Methodist University Law School.

Bruce N. Dean graduated with honors from the
University of Maryland School of Law in May
1987. He and his wife, Ellen, live in Silver Spring.

Perry L. Goodbar is national association manager
for the Opryland Hotel, a sales and marketing-
oriented position that requires him to plan annual
meetings of national associations. He is also in-
volved in the Grand Ole Opry, Opryland U.S.A.
theme park, the Nashville Network, Hee Haw, and
other related parts of the company.

James L. Green received his LL.M. in taxation
from Chicago-Kent College of Law in June 1987.
He works with the trust department of Mellon
Bank (Central) N.A. in Lewistown, Pa.

2nd Lt. James D. Griffin III graduated from The
Basic School at the Marine Corps Development
and Education Command in Quantico, Va. Dur-
ing the 26-week course, he prepared for assignment
to the Fleet Marine Force and earned the respon-
sibility of a rifle platoon commander.

34. W&L

Karl F. Guenther is working on a project in New
York City for Alexander Proudfoot, LP., an in-
ternational management consulting firm. He lives
in Chester Springs, Pa.

Richard Kopelman graduated from the Universi-
ty of Georgia School of Law in May 1987. He pass-
ed the Georgia Bar Examination and began work-
ing as an associate for the law firm of Neely and
Player in Atlanta this fall. He represented the
University of Georgia in the Gray’s Inn Moot
Court Competition in London following his
graduation in May. His team defeated the team
from Gray’s Inn, an English barrister’s inn.

John L. McCants is clerking with Judge Frank P.
McGowan of the South Carolina State Circuit
Court in Greenville. He is a 1987 graduate of the
University of South Carolina School of Law.

Wade M. Meadows is regional vice president of
marketing for Dun and Bradstreet Plan Services
Inc. in Tampa, Fla. The corporation is the nation’s
largest third-party marketer and administrator of
small business health insurance. Meadows is enroll-
ed in the master of business administration pro-
gram at the University of South Florida.

David C. Pace (See 1979).

1st Lt. Stephen J. A. Smith is a platoon leader with
the 26th Signal Battalion in Heilbronn, West Ger-
many, where he lives with his wife, Blair, and

daughter, Allison.
1985

MARRIAGE: Charles M. Martin Jr. and Tricia
House on May 23, 1987. Martin is a third-year stu-
dent at Texas Tech University School of Law. He
is a clerk with the law firm of Maner, Richards
& Martinez in Lubbock, Texas.

Robert D. Bryant is pursuing an M.F.A. in cinema
production at the University of Southern Califor-
nia. He works in the marketing department of
Cannon Films Inc. in Los Angeles.

Charles Russell DePoy transferred to the practice
office of Price Waterhouse in Sacramento, Calif.
He maintains membership in the Transportation
Systems Group/Management Consultation Ser-
vices of Price Waterhouse’s Office of Government
Services in Washington, D.C.

Whitney H. Gadsby was nominated for the
Distinguished Teacher of the Year Award for his
first year as a science teacher in a middle school
in the Charlottesville, Va., school district.

Harry S. Gold is working in the general counsel’s
office in litigation with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture in Washington, D.C.

Robert A. Kurek II has been a staff reporter with
Manassas Journal Messenger since August 1986.

Carl N. Lauer works in trial defense service with
the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) at Fort

Campbell in Kentucky. He is a member of the All-
Army Rugby Team and will play in the interser-
vice competition in Washington, D.C., in
September.

Stanley Preston Lewis is president of Virginia Born
& Bred Inc., a corporation promoting Virginia
handcrafts through the operation of a retail sales
shop in Lexington, Va.

Eileen T. McCabe is a corporate attorney for
Grumman Corp. in Bethpage, N.Y.

Thomas M, Murphy is a representative for the Put-
nam Publishing group in the Florida area. He lives
in South Miami.

Fred H. Renner II is director of public affairs for
the Washington Legal Foundation in Washington,
D.C.

C. Reynolds Thompson III was promoted from
corporate lender to banking officer for Trust Com-
pany Bank in Atlanta.

1986

Jack C. Benjamin Jr. is a consultant for Arthur
Anderson & Co. in New York City. He previous-
ly worked for the Japanese trading company
Marubeni America Corp.

James M. Berger is a sales representative with NCR
in Lynchburg, Va.

1st Lt. Denise A. Council is in the U.S. Army
Judge Advocate General Corps, stationed at Fort
Ord, Calif., near Monterey.

Peter A. Hunt is an associate in the corporate
finance services department of J. P. Morgan in
New York City.

Janna Patricia Johnson, having passed the Con-
necticut Bar Examination in February, is employed
at the New Canaan office of the law firm of Ruc-
ci, Gruss, Jex & Gleason. She lives in Stamford.

Brian J. Oliger is director of promotions at
WNCX-FM (98.5) in Cleveland. He had been
working as assistant promotions director and as
production director for the station, which is owned
by the Metropolis Broadcasting Group of Detroit.
He plans to syndicate nationally a radio program
that was originated at WLUR-FM in Lexington
with classmate Kenneth N. Jacoby. Oliger also
works as a disc jockey and personality in several
clubs in the Cleveland area.

Ensign David W. Sprunt Jr., USCGR, was
graduated from Officer Candidates School in
Yorktown, Va., in July. He will spend between
18 months and two years in New London, Conn.,
in the cadet administration department of the
Coast Guard Academy’s cadet training division.

David D. Thompson is a project engineer for high-
rise construction with McDevitt & Street. He lives
in Columbia, S.C.

 

 

Clifford F. Wargelin entered the Ph.D. program
in European history at the University of Wiscon-
sin at Madison in August. Last year, he was assis-
tant manager of an Oldsmobile test drive program
at a marketing and research firm in Detroit.

1987
MARRIAGE: Matthew J. Waterbury and Melin-
da Phillips on June 6, 1987, in Manassas, Va.
Classmate John Maass was a groomsman. The
couple lives in Tucson, Ariz., where Waterbury
is studying hydrology at the University of Arizona.

 

In Memoriam

 

1910

Col. James Norman Pease, the engineer whose
firm, J. N. Pease Associates, designed landmark
buildings throughout Charlotte which were later
replaced by the same firm’s skyscrapers, died Ju-
ly 17, 1987. He was 101. After attending Georgia
Institute of Technology for one year and
Washington and Lee for two years, Pease served
during World War I as a lieutenant colonel in
charge of the construction of Camp Gordon, Ga.
After a 15-year association with Lockwood Greene
Engineers of New York, he co-founded his own
firm with Charlotte architect James Stenhouse.
During World War II, he became a colonel in
charge of the 369th Engineers Regiment and
organized the construction of roads, bridges,
hospitals, and camps in the South Pacific. He serv-
ed as president of the Good Fellows Club in
Charlotte from 1957 until his death and helped
found the City Club. During his lifetime, he was
associated with the Charlotte Chamber of Com-
merce and the Salvation Army and served as
chamber president of United Appeal, director of
CPCC Foundation, and president of Friends of
UNCC, and as an advisory member of the Queens
College board for more than 25 years.

1914

Thomas Alexander McCorkle died May 12, 1987.
He was professor emeritus and former chairman
of the chemistry and physics department at
Longwood College. Upon graduating from W&L,
he entered the University of Chicago, where he
earned his M.S. degree in 1916. He served as gas
ration officer and fire warden for Farmville dur-
ing World War II. In 1969, a new addition to the
Stevens Science Building at Longwood was nam-
ed McCorkle Wing in his honor. He was a member
of Farmville Presbyterian Church, where he serv-
ed on the board of elders, as a deacon for 15 years,
and as treasurer for six years. He also was a
member of the Lions Club and Masonic Lodge
#41.

Julian Wood Selig, North Carolina’s oldest and
longest practicing optometrist, died July 13, 1987.
After attending W&L from 1910 to 1911, he
graduated in optometry from Columbia Univer-
sity in 1914. He practiced in Elizabeth City, N.C.,
for 74 years — until one week before his death.
During World War I, he served in the U.S. Navy
doing special optical work. He was past president
and since 1926 a member of Elizabeth City Rotary
Club. He also was a Paul Harris Fellow and a
member of the Masonic Lodge and Elks Lodge.

(1918

Matthew White Paxton, lawyer, publisher, and
lifelong resident of Lexington, Va., died July 17,
1987. After serving as a second lieutenant in World
War I, he returned to his hometown and earned
an undergraduate and law degree from W&L.
Upon receiving a law degree from Yale in 1921,
he joined the Lexington law firm of W. T. Shields
and practiced out of the same office on West
Washington Street until his retirement in 1978.
Paxton succeeded his father as owner and
publisher of The Rockbridge County News in 1935
and continued publishing the newspaper until
1955. He owned the business until 1961. He was
commissioner of accounts for the Rockbridge Cir-
cuit Court between 1942 and 1978. In 1928, he was
elected to the board of People’s National Bank of
Lexington and until 1970 served in various offices,
including chairman of the local advisory board
after the bank’s merger with First National Ex-
change Bank. He served as Stonewall Jackson
Hospital’s first president and was a member of the
board for 15 years. He was a founder of the
Historic Lexington Foundation, serving as chair-
man of its advisory board. He was a deacon and
an elder in the Lexington Presbyterian Church.
Washington and Lee University awarded him an
honorary doctor of laws degree in 1965, citing that
his ‘‘wisdom, sound judgment, broad influence
and personal integrity have touched every worth-
while endeavor in this community... .”’

1920

Matthew White Paxton (See 1918).

1923
Hugh Moor Taylor, a retired circuit judge from
Gadsden County in Florida, died July 21, 1987.
At the age of 16, he became a student at the School
of Law, earning his degree two years later. At age
19, he was admitted to the Florida Bar and prac-
ticed law until he retired from the bench in 1976.
He continued to work as a consultant to the
Tallahassee law firm of his son-in-law. He played
a major role in revising the Florida state constitu-

tion in 1968.
1924

John Andrew Cummins died July 6, 1987, in Fair-
fax, Va. Formerly a district commercial supervisor
with the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co.,
he joined the company in 1924 as an auditor and
retired in 1964. He was a past president of Arl-
ington Kiwanis Club and a past director of the Arl-
ington Chamber of Commerce. He was a member
of the Alexander Graham Bell Chapter of the
Telephone Pioneers of America and of the Lyon
Village Citizens Association in Arlington. He also
had served as an elder of Clarendon Presbyterian
Church.

William Clyde (Hicopper) Dennis died June 1,
1987. A lifelong resident of Buchanan County in
Virginia, he served as trial justice court judge for
25 years and also served as commonwealth’s at-
torney and as an attorney for the town of Grun-
dy. In 1925, he organized Bucova Insurance Agen-
cy and served as president until his retirement.
Before earning his law degree from W&L, he at-
tended Emory and Henry College. He was past
president of the Virginia State Bar Association,
a member of the Buchanan County Chamber of
Commerce, a Kentucky Colonel, and former chair-
man of the Democratic Party in Buchanan Coun-
ty. He was a member and past president of the
Grundy Rotary Club and served as Worshipful
Master of Sandy Valley Masonic Lodge No. 17
AF&AM for 66 years. He also was a Scottish Rite

Shriner and a member of the Kazim Temple in
Roanoke for 65 years. He served as class agent for
the University.

Robert Fillmore Norfleet died July 21, 1987. He
attended W&L from 1920 to 1927, earning an
LL.B. degree in 1924 and a B.A. in 1927. He con-
tinued his education in France at the Universite
de Poitiers, where he earned his diplome in 1930.
He received his M.A. from the University of
Virginia in 1932 and his Ph.D. in 1936. He took
one year off from U.Va. to attend the Universite
de Dijon in France. From 1927 to 1929, Norfleet
was master of French at Episcopal High School.
He spent one year at Furman University, begin-
ning in 1935, as assistant professor of French and
Spanish. After two years at the Richmond divi-
sion of the College of William and Mary, he was
master of French and Spanish at Woodberry
Forest School in Madison County until his retire-
ment in 1968. He was the author of Saint-Memin
in Virginia: Portraits and Biographies and of Suf-
folk in Virginia: Lots, Lives and Likenesses. He
was a member of the Society of the Cincinnati,
Phi Beta Kappa, and the Virginia Historical

Society.
1925

John Owen Lewis died at his summer home in
Highlands, N.C., on June 13, 1987. Born in St.
Petersburg, Fla., he spent his high school years
in Jacksonville before attending Washington and
Lee and then Harvard Law School. He worked in
Jacksonville with Irving Post Co., a naval stores
export firm based in Savannah, until its liquida-
tion, when other companies formed under his
direction. His business career encompassed the ex-
porting, manufacturing, and distributing of am-
monia nitrate and rubber oil to paper and paint
companies from the manufacturing facilities he
established in Jacksonville and in Columbia, Miss.
His investments in real estate in the early ’5Os led
to the development of Ellis Road, a major
warehousing area in West Jacksonville. He was af-
filiated with the Oglethorpe Club, Wildcat Cliffs
Country Club in Highlands, Seminole Club,
Florida Yacht Club, Timuquana Country Club,
and the Honey Do’s Club of Jacksonville. While
at Washington and Lee, he joined Sigma Alpha
Epsilon fraternity and served as president of his
senior class.

1927

Robert Fillmore Norfleet (See 1924).

Claggett Offutt died May 29, 1987. He was retired
as a self-employed industrial analyst and during
his lifetime worked in manufacturing and invest-
ment securities. He also worked for the War
Relocation Authority in the Department of Interior
and in the Price Division of the Office of Price
Administration. During World War II, he served
as a captain in the California State Guard. He was
a charter member of the International Association
of Financial Counsellors and a member of the Na-
tional Association of Securities Dealers and of St.
Paul’s Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles.

1930
Robert Vernon May died January 16, 1987.
Founder of the R. V. May Co. in Prestonsburg,
Ky., and of Kentucky Welding Supply Co. Inc.
in Lexington, he retired from business in 1982. He
was appointed to the Governor’s Commission for
the Study of Higher Education in 1960 and was
instrumental in establishing Prestonsburg Com-
munity College. He served as chairman of the |
board of advisers from the school’s beginning. He
also served on the board of trustees of Alice Lloyd

W&L 35

 

College from 1969 to 1974. He was the first chair-
man of the Prestonsburg Housing Authority, a
member of the Prestonsburg Community Develop-
ment Commission, and past president of both the
Kiwanis and Lions Clubs. He served as a lieuten-
ant in the Navy during World War II and was a
member of the American Legion, Veterans of
Foreign Wars, and the Forty and Eight. As a
member of the Irene Cole Memorial Baptist
Church, he served as a deacon, past chairman of
the Finance Committee, and as a Sunday school
teacher. He also served as a member of the ex-
ecutive board of the Kentucky Baptist Convention.

1931

Manuel Morton Weinberg died June 16, 1987. A
former trial magistrate in Frederick County, Md.,
he practiced law for 56 years and was senior part-
ner of Weinberg & Weinberg at the time of his
death. A member of both the Maryland and the
American Bar Associations, he had served as presi-
dent of the Frederick County Bar Association and
was a member of the American Judicature Socie-
ty. Weinberg’s law practice was interrupted from
March 1945 to September 1946, when he served
in the U.S. Army at Fort Knox, Ky. Active in his
community, Weinberg was a member and past
president of Beth Sholem Congregation, served on
the Advisory Board of Hood College, and on the
YMCA Board for many years. He was a retired
director of the Thurmont Bank and the Suburban
Bancorp and was a member of the American
Legion and the Kiwanis Club. He was a member
and past exalted ruler of BPO Elks Lodge 684 and
a member of Holly Hills Country Club. Weinberg
was a charter member of W&L’s Robert E. Lee
Associates and served as class agent.

Richard Laimbeer Sanford Jr. died June 13, 1987,
in Glens Falls, N.Y.

James Knox Tate died June 14, 1987. A 1943
graduate of Tulane Medical School, he began his

career as a medical doctor at Baptist Hospital in -

Memphis, Tenn., and from there entered the Ar-
my medical corps. After 18 months at a station
hospital on Guam, he spent one year as a resident
doctor in the Baptist Hospital in Nashville, Tenn.
Before retiring in 1962 due to injuries from a car
accident, he practiced general medicine in Bolivar.

Francis Pendleton Gaines Jr. died June 11, 1987,
in Tucson, Ariz. He was retired as dean of ad-
ministration at the University of Arizona and was
a former president of Wofford College. Son of the
late Dr. Francis P. Gaines, president of W&L from
1930 to 1959, Gaines attended the University from
1935 to 1937 and was graduated first in his class
and summa cum laude in 1942 from the Universi-
ty of Arizona. As a captain in the U.S. Army from
1942 to 1946, he served in the Military Intelligence
Division of the War Department’s General Staff.
Gaines earned his master’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Virginia in 1947 and his doctorate as a Du-
pont fellow in 1950. He received the University of
Arizona’s Outstanding Faculty Award in 1971 and
was awarded an honorary doctor of humane let-
ters degree in 1969 by New Mexico’s College of
Artesia. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Raven Society (U.Va.),
and the Methodist Club.

942

Daniel Curtis Lewis Jr., assistant professor of
commerce at W&L from 1949 to 1952 and a
member of the board of directors of Chesapeake

36 = W&L

Corp. in Williamsburg, Va., died Aug. 6, 1987.
After attending Washington and Lee, he continued
his education at Harvard University, where he
earned a master’s degree in business administra-
tion in 1948 and a doctor of commercial science
in 1954. He then joined Lynchburg Foundry Co.
in Lynchburg, Va., where he served as assistant
to the president, controller, secretary, and assis-
tant treasurer. In 1963, he became assistant to the
president of The Chesapeake Corp. of Virginia and
served until 1983, when he retired as vice presi-
dent for administration. Lewis became a member
of the Virginia community college board at its in-
ception in 1966 and served as chairman from 1971
to 1976. At the time of his death, he was the ex-
ecutive director of the School of Business Spon-
sors of the College of William and Mary. He serv-
ed on the board of the Virginia Foundation for
Humanities and Public Policy, as chairman of the
West Point School Board from 1965 to 1976, and
as a trustee of Virginia Episcopal School from 1960
to 1966.

John Alwin Muehleisen Jr. of Williamsburg, Va.,
died March 2, 1987.

Charles Peter Beddow died June 5, 1987. He was
a member of the Medical Association of Alabama
and a fellow of the American Academy of Or-
thopaedic Surgeons. A graduate of the Universi-
ty of Alabama Medical School, he practiced
medicine in Birmingham and Decatur, Ala., for
most of his life. He also was a veteran of the U.S.
Navy during World War II. He was a member of
First Presbyterian Church in Decatur, of the Coun-
try Club of Birmingham, and of the Morgan
County Medical Association.

Richard Coleman Burton died Nov. 13, 1986. A
senior systems programmer analyst at Yale Univer-

sity from 1978 to 1985, he also spent part of his
life as a consultant for Howard Systems in Stam-
ford, Conn., and as an associate of Cabitt Realty
of Hyannis. He was a member of the church choir
and folk group at St. Mary’s Church in Milford,
Conn., where he spent 25 years of his life before
moving to Osterville, Mass., in 1985. He was a past
president of St. Mary’s Holy Name Society and
vice president of the Nocturnal Adoration Socie-
ty. While living in Milford, he was active as either
manager or coach in Little League, Junior Major
League, and the Babe Ruth League baseball
organizations. He also coached basketball for the
Catholic Youth Organization and at St. Mary’s

School.
1952

Robert Fleming Ward died May 25, 1987. As
former judge of the Pittsylvania County (Va.)
Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court, he serv-
ed more than 13 years on the bench. He was in
a private law practice in Chatham from 1952 to
1974. Before earning his law degree from W&L,
he attended Brown University, where he earned
a bachelor of arts degree. He was a member of
Emmanuel Episcopal Church in Chatham.

Friends

Dr. John F. Baxter, professor of chemistry at
W&L from 1946 to 1952, died on March 15, 1987,
in Gainesville, Fla. He was 77. A 1932 graduate
of Bethany College (W.Va.), he earned his doc-
torate from Johns Hopkins University. He taught
at Loyola College in Baltimore and Gettysburg
College before joining the W&L faculty. He is
believed to have been W&L’s first lacrosse coach,
a position he held from 1946 until the fall of 1950.
After leaving W&L, Baxter went to the Universi-
ty of Florida, where he taught from 1952 to 1978,
when he retired.

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

EDITOR:

Robert E. Lee and Lewis F. Powell Jr., two
great Virginians, each made fateful decisions at
critical junctures in our nation’s history—decisions
which an even greater Virginian, George
Washington, would not have made.

CARL G. CROYDER, ’50
College Park, Md.
EDITOR:

The recent issues of the Alumni Magazine have
conveyed a new sense of strength and uniqueness
that would lead me to believe that, recently, W&L
has been undergoing a sort of ‘‘Transformational
Renaissance.”’

From my own professional experience in the
Middle East (Kuwait) and with the Hopi of nor-
thern Arizona, I have come to realize that
whenever a society or organization with a deeply
rooted set of traditional values (such as W&L) is
interfaced with modern ideas and technology, a
very special type of creative energy is generated
and sustained.

Thus, instead of becoming entrapped within
a web of ‘‘past’’ traditional values, W&L is in the
process of bringing its timeless traditional values

into a fresh new ‘‘present/future’’ context, which

is proving to be flexible, relevant, and responsive

to the changes and challenges of today’s informa-
tion/communication society.

ELLIoTT C. L. MAYNARD, 762

Oak Creek, Ariz.

EDITOR:

I want to tell you how very much I enjoy receiv-
ing my issues of your informative magazine. It is
professionally done in every respect. It’s really the
only practical way to keep up with the events at
a school that will always hold a very special place
in my heart. Also, it is great hearing of the ac-
complishments of my classmates.

Each time I receive the Alumni Magazine, lam
assured once again that my decision to attend
W&L was a most sound one. Keep up the great

work!

Douc.tas H. BARTON, ’80
Colorado Springs, Colo.

Send letters to And Furthermore, W&L Alumni
Magazine, Reid Hall, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 
  

Gift from
the General's Store!
The W&L Bookstore

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A1_ Tray by David Keeling, W&L Alumnus.
Color lithographs, your choice of spring or
fall, applied to wooden tray. Surface is pro-
tected by alcohol/water resistant lacquer,
back is protected by cork. Will be sent from
artist’s studio. $48.00.

A2 Wastebasket by David Keeling. Choice of
spring or fall at W&L. Color lithographs, sent
from artist’s studio. $25.00. Spring
(14Y%2"'x20Y2'') and fall (16’’ by 20°’)
prints, matted and framed, are also available.
$55.00

   
  

  
    

 

 

 

 

A3 Our very own lamp from Royal Windyne E = > ae THT THHLE
Limited. 22’ high in solid brass with the of = ri a PEN ? real anaes

  

yy

University Crest in gold on the 14’’ diameter
black shade. The lamp will be shipped to you
from the manufacturer. $129.00.

A4 Write or call us for information on a

Washington and Lee ring. We have samples
and can quote on 10k, 14k and 18k rings.
Josten’s and Artcarved are our companies.

A5 Wedgewood plates, set of four scenes:
The Chapel, Colonnade, Lee-Jackson house
and an overview of the campus. 10%”’
diameter in blue and white. $100.00 set of
four.

A6 24 karat gold-plated blazer buttons from
the Waterbury Company. Three coat buttons
plus three for each sleeve. $40.00.

A7 Tie Tack by Waterbury. 24 karat gold
plate. $15.95.

 

 

 

bbs aT

Ee

@ B7

    
 

B1 NEW for Law graduates. The
extra-heavy sweatshirt by CHAM-
PION. 80% cotton/8% acrylic/3%
rayon. Grey only. Sizes M, L, XL.
CAUTION: these are very large!
$32.95.

B2 Golf jacket from ANTIGUA.
Very soft navy nylon, lined in pre-
Shrunk flannel, with knit fashion
collar, waistband and cuffs. White
embroidery. Sizes M, L, XL, XXL.
$32.95.

B3 Hooded nylon rain jacket by
JANSPORT. Kangaroo pocket con-
verts to easy carrying case. Sizes
M, L, XL. Choice of navy or royal.
$26.95.

B4 NEW half-zip sweatshirt by
WOLF. 50% polyester/38%
cotton/12% rayon. Sizes S, M, L,
XL. Grey only. $23.95.

B5 Knee length night shirt by
SPECTATOR. 100% cotton. One
size fits all. The back is a Surprise!
$17.95.

B6 Silk and polyester tie with col-
onnade in white on navy
background (with double red
Stripes). $17.95.

B7 W&L 100% SILK tie. Choice
of navy or medium grey with white
crest. $22.95.

 
 
 
 
      

 

 
 
 

TSANG. ?4
“A UNIV We NUTR

  
   

 
  
  

   
  
  

      
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
  
 

a

 

 

B8 Child's sweatshirt by WOLF.
Royal blue and white. 50%
polyester/50% cotton. Sizes 2, 4,
5-6, 6-7. $12.95.

BS Youth sweatshirt by ARTEX.
50% cotton/30% polyester/20%
acrylic. Choice of white, royal or
grey. Sizes S (6-8), M (10-12) L
(14-16). $10.95.

B10 Child's sized adjustable
baseball cap with mesh back by
TRI TEX. Navy or royal with white
logo. $5.95.

B11 CHILD'S T-shirt by VELVA
SHEEN. Your choice of grey or
white with navy imprint. White is
50% polyester/50% cotton. Grey
is 50% polyester/35%
cotton/15% rayon. Sizes S (6-8),
M (10-12), L (14-16). $5.95.

USHINGTON ¢ pp, |

   

    
  
 

Be
Suni R

ex

CNIVERSITY d

|
SHINGTON 4 LEX Univpes.

{

  

 
  
  
       
     
     
     
   
   
     
   
 
    

 

 

 

$ I. $
ns +
E oe

i: é - Washington and Tee
Be University

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

B12 Cross stitch — The W&L

crest in counted cross stitch. Kit
includes fabric, instructions and
embroidery floss. $9.99.

B13 Needlepoint kit — The Colon-
nade in a 14 by 14 kit. 100% wool
yarn included. $29.95.

  
    
   
 

 

ee

7 C11

C10

 

 

 

 

sian

 

 

C1 NEW! Needlepoint of the crest.

100% wool yarns included. Fin-
ished size 12 by 16. $32.95.

C2 100% cotton oversize T-shirt
with pocket by LONG JOHN. Sizes
M, L, XL. They are huge! Choice of
white, royal and black. $17.95.
Also available with long sleeves,
Same colors and sizes. $18.95.

C3 Crest shirt from VELVA
SHEEN. White is 100% cotton.
Grey is 44% polyester/43%
cotton/13% rayon. Sizes S, M, L,
XL. $8.95.

C4 ‘‘Washington and Lee Country
Club’’ hat from KOZA. White or
navy twill. Adjustable leather strap
in back. $8.95.

C5 100% cotton T-shirt by
CHAMPION. White with navy trim.
Two color crest on left chest. Sizes
S, M, L, XL. $9.50.

C6 WAL twill hat from KOZA.
Available in navy or royal. One size
fits all. $8.95.

C7 Our heaviest sweatshirt — and
the most popular by far — by
CHAMPION. 80% cotton/8%

» acrylic/3% rayon. Grey only. P.S.

These are huge! Sizes S, M, XL.
$32.95.

C8 Hooded baby sweater by
MARLOMAR. White acrylic, navy
trim. Full zipper in back. Sizes
6-12 mos., 18 mos. $14.95.

C9 Our own bear, 7’’ high ina
handknitted royal sweater and cap.
In white, tan or grey. $14.95.

C10 Baby bib. Terry cloth with
crest in blue and red. $4.25.

C11 Infant nylon socks from TRI
TEX. Royal and white. One size.
$5.50.

C12 Baby Booties by MARLOMAR.
100% acrylic with a single letter on
each foot. In a clear plastic box.
One size. $6.95.

C13 Sweat separates by WOLF.
Royal top has raglan sleeves. 50%
polyester/50% cotton. Royal pants
have drawstring and elastic waist.
50% polyester/50% cotton. Sizes
S, M, L, XL. Order separately.
$18.95 each piece.

 
 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    

 

 

 

 

D1 Glass stein with the W&L crest in full color,
trimmed in 23 karat gold. Made in Italy but shipped
to us from Germany where the crest and pewter lid
are added. 7’’ high. Holds 14 oz. $15.50.

D2 The original German Pilsner with the W&L crest
in full color on crystal. Trimmed with 23 karat gold.
92" tall, holds 11 0z. $7.95.

D3 Crest mug in blue and red on white ceramic. $4.95.

D4 Washington and Lee colonnade mug. White
ceramic with blue and gold trim. $5.95.

 

D5 Ceramic mug with athletic logo, and a ceramic lid
to keep your coffee hot. $7.95.

D6 Etched highball glass. Simply beautiful. 12 02.
Set of four $15.00.

D7 Etched double old fashioned glass. 13% 0z. Set
of four. $15.00.

D8 Etched old fashioned glass. 8% oz. Set of four
$15.00.

D9 Not Pictured: Etched shot glass. 2 0z. $2.95 each.

D10 The classic highball glass with the crest in red
and blue. 12 0z. Set of four $15.00.

D11 The W&L crest in red and blue on an executive
(double) old fashioned glass. 12 oz. Only $15.00 for
the set of four.

D12 = L’Etudiant Etranger by Philippe Labro.
Gallimard, Publisher. A novel in French about a
foreign student's year at W&L. $19.95. Sorry, no
alumni discount. (English translation comes out this
fall. Call for details).

 

 

 
   
    
   
 
  

WASHINGTON

I\ ! D13 The Washington and Lee Book. Evocative color
LEE UNIVERSITY

photographs by William Strode. Regular edition
$35.00. Limited edition with leather binding $100.00.

D14 Don't Look Back: Poems by Dabney Stuart.
Louisiana State University Press. The poet is a
member of the W&L faculty. Cloth $13.95. Paper
$6.95. Alumni discount 10%.

D15 The Lee Girls by Mary P. Coulling. John F.
Blair, Publisher. This biography of Lee’s four
daughters depicts the changes affecting the Civil War
South $19.95. Alumni discount 10%.

PHOTOGRAPHY BY WILLIAM STRE we.

 

 

D16 W&lL grain cups. White with multi-color crest. 5
for $3.20.

] bllesrinamitonn Shee minerstitey D17 “UGLY MUG!"’ That is what the manufacturer
a WASHRINGTON-7~ LEE LAW calls it. We just know it’s big — 40 oz! $6.95.

D18 Ballpoint pen with multicolor crest on top. Life
D21 Old English Decal 26 inches long. .89. time guarantee. Uses standard Cross refill. In gift
box. $15.00.

 

 

 

 

D22 Law decal. 24 lg. .99.

i aja D19 WAL letter opener with blue crest on white and
D23 WAL Athletic Logo decal. 42" by 3% gold plated trim. $4.25.

69.

 

 

z . D20 Enamel and leather key ring with the three-color
D24 Alumni decal. 4°" by 3”. .65. crest protected by acrylic. $3.95.

D25 Not pictured: W&L golf balls by Spalding. 3
to a pack. $7.50.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae Photos by Hinely “3 _
W&L UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE — NAME: DAY PHONE:
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
fF 4 f be | (703) 463-8633 AppAEee
The W&L Frisbee ITEM NO. QTY. SIZE DESCRIPTION/COLOR
while supplies last.

   

 

 

Please send no money with your order as For orders over $5.00 VISA__ ~ MASTERCARD____

prices can change without warning. We will

bill you, adding UPS and sales tax where Charge Card Number
applicable. If you'd rather order by phone or Expiration Date
you have a question, please call us.

 

 

Signature

 

Sant 1027

fficers of Washington and Lee

Alumni Inc. have made use of

two unsolicited gifts to refurbish
the first floor of the Alumni House,
which is located on the University cam-
pus and serves as the focal point for alum-
ni activities at W&L.

“*It was an idea whose time had finally
come,’’ said Richard B. Sessoms, direc-
tor of alumni programs. ‘‘The house has
been in need of refurbishment since I
walked in the door.’’

That was in 1983. At his first meeting
of the alumni board of directors, Sessoms
cited the need for new paint, new
carpeting and draperies, and new
furniture.

*‘Someone must have been listening,”’
Sessoms noted.

In the fall of 1985, the Cadaver Socie-
ty made a $50,000 pledge for ‘‘the renova-
tion, repair, and refurbishment”’ of the
Alumni House. But work could not begin
until the funds were accessible, and the
pledge was to be paid in $10,000 in-
stallments for five years.

Then this past May the Class of 1937
designated $50,000 of its 50th Reunion
Gift for the project. That permitted work
to begin immediately. The renovation was
started in June and completed in late
August.

The reception area of the Alumni
House is now equipped with air condi-
tioning and is decorated with fresh paint,
elegant wallpaper, recovered and antique
furniture, new light fixtures, and an
oriental rug.

The house committee, which is com-
posed of members of the alumni board
of directors, hired Ellen Capito of
Greeneville, Tenn., as interior designer.
Certified in 1972 by the New York School
of Interior Design, Capito is currently
principal and proprietor of Ellen Capito
Interiors. She has worked as senior
designer for W&J Sloan Inc. in New York
City and also as an administrative assis-
tant to the executive vice president of
home furnishings of Bloomingdale’s.

Sessoms said hiring Capito, whose
husband, Howard Capito, ’68, is a
member of the alumni board, was the
logical choice. ‘“We simply knew about
Ellen,’’ he said. ‘‘Her work speaks for
itself.’’

The first official use of the newly
refurbished house was a reception on
Sept. 6 for the sons and daughters of

 

alumni who entered Washington and Lee
as freshmen this year.

Ellen Capito was to lead a tour of the
house during the October Homecoming
weekend.

The house committee that oversaw the
refurbishing is currently working on a
policy for renting the house for receptions
and other gatherings.. Sessoms said the
committee will strengthen the regulations
so that the facility is not abused.

The Alumni House first opened in the

spring of 1966. It was formerly the home
of Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, professor of
chemistry at W&L, and was made
available to the Alumni Association by
the Board of Trustees following Flour-
noy’s death in January 1964.

The house dates to the late 1800s when
a prominent Baltimore architect, J.
Crawford Neilson, whose earlier work
had included the mausoleum at Lee
Chapel, was engaged by the University to
build a house for one of the professors.

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magaepid ie wy he fee Sc Ne Page 7
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY : | US. Postage |
Lemos kaye 24450 os a PAID og?
et | | é Permit No. 6238 a
Cincinnati, OH -

 

p _SHENANDOAH

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

y
A . veoh cet “Pull of fictional, critical, poetic and biogaphjeal om at
+ +s. splendor.”’ i. | ; |
rege mag’ | = The New York 'T Times
‘‘Well burnished excellence, long maintained.’’ | AS
— Kirkus Reviews
ay SINCE 1950 SHENANDOAH has published fiction, poetry, essays, reviews and criticism. Stories publish-
| ay ed in SHENANDOAH have regularly been selected for the annual O. Henry short story collections,
ae eC Random House Reviews and the Pushcart Prize: Best of the Small Presses.
e”
~ WRITERS PUBLISHED IN SHENANDOAH inchide Alice Adams, Ww. H. Auden ae R. R. Tolkiert,
yy John Berryman, George Bradley, Michael Brondoli, Alfred Corn, e. e. cummings, Jonathan Galassi,
‘% Guy Davenport, “Tom Disch, James Dickey, William Faulkner, Marilyn Hacker, Daniel Hoffman,
3 fr Richard Howard, Carolyn Kizer, David Lehman, Robert Lowell, J. D. McClatchy, Thomas McGuane, at
fA | James Merrill, Marianne Moore, Herbert Morris, Howard Nemerov, Joyce Carol Oates, Flannery Cr”
_ O’Connor, Robert Pinsky, Katherine Anne Porter, Ezra Pound, Reynolds Price, Stephen Spender, Peter -
a, Taylor, Wallace Stevens, Dabney Stuart, Eudora Welty, Diane: Vreuls, Richard Wilbur. aun |
re AA ‘Jittle’ literary 1 magaiifie * | CANN
fon - its aspirations or its. delivery.” 4 i | 5 sae
me —USA Today | \WAs .
a , :
¢
on eA
* : oc, ~
ay SHENANDOAH | _O) One year (4 issues) $11/$14 foreign Co a
y Box 722. 1 Two years (8 issues) $18/$24 foreign Oa wr
fo Legagion, Virginia 24450 1 Three years (12 issues) $25/$33 foreign ee a
A To begin with L] current issue L1 next issue ‘
ye My check for $ enclosed. | iy i
e\ ei ‘
“a . Name : as ‘
~ | Address 2 . , Bos ¥
a City 4 State Zip + 4 | y |
| pn |
ak ,
2S AM > 5
apoB

 

