SRS
SES

SS

SSS
cS .
SOG

Ss
SS

SS
ASS

aS
RN
SSS

x |

SS

eee
SS wt
AS
St
SEG
RS
SEE

Re
SS

 

SA

SS
LASS

SS

SS
ES

Ss

co

eC
cc

SS
SERS
SS
SER ES
~~ —
LN
Ss
RRS
‘
Ss
SARS
— co
‘ SR
_ —.
—

SSS

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 58, Number 3, May 1983

Frank A. Parsons, 754 .........cccccccccccccccccccccccncncnes Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ............... cece cece ee ees Associate Editor
Robert Fure ........... 00.0... ccc cece cece e ee eees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter ........ 0. ccc cece cece eee cece ee eees Editorial Assistant
Patricia B. Hale 2.2.0.0... cece eee eee eee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, 73 ............ cece eee ee eee eee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Curriculum Revision ...............ccccccccccceeecceccccees 1
Wilson Gets To Know W&L ..............ccccccceceecee: 3
Dr. Stuart Porter, W&L Birdman ........................ 5
Shillington: He’s the Host ...................cccceeeeeeees 10
The Wizards of Oz, Part I] ...................ccee eee ee ee 11
W&L Gazette 0.0.0... ccc ccs ccc cececcccedcccdcet ota pees cue 14
L. K. Johnson, 1904-1983 2.0.0.0... ccc cece cee eee eee ees 15
Buzzing Sculpture Studio ..................ccceeeeeeeeeees 20
Chapter NEWS ..............cccesecectewsbug on emegee wean 24
Class Notes...............cccccccecccuceseueeeet eee 28
A IVMieEMOTIAM ................cc0ccenc eee 35

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL LAD III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LaTTurE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, °56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, 50, Baltimore, Md.
OweEN H. Harper, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NorMAN Jr., 756, Crossett, Ark.
Rice M. TILvey Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TurRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

cw

ve

ON THE COVER: Appearing as imperturbable as always, Old
George looks out from his station atop Washington Hall. The
imperturbability is particularly admirable when one considers
that a band of aggressive birds (flickers, according to W&L
ornithologists) have chiseled out a nest on Old George’s back-
side as evidenced by the photograph on the back cover. (The
bird on Old George’s head is not one of the culprits, just an
ordinary starling paying a call.) Photographs by W. Patrick
Hinely, ’73.

 

 

 

 

by Sidney M. B. Coulling
Professor of English

Moving a Graveyard

W&L Faculty Approves Curriculum Revision

Professor Coulling was chairman of the ad hoc Committee on
General Education which recommended curricular changes that the
faculty adopted at a special meeting in April. He discusses those
changes in the following article:

One of the oldest and by now feeblest of academic jokes,
attributed at one time or other to a number of college presidents, is
that persuading a faculty to change the curriculum is like trying to
move a graveyard.

Whatever point the joke once had lay not so much in its
contemptuous view of the faculty, always an easy target for abuse,
as in its sense of an almost impossibly long and laborious task to be
performed. The fact is, of course, that in matters involving the
curriculum the wheels of Academe, to alter the image, do turn
very slowly, and for good reason.

Few things concern a faculty more centrally than does the
curriculum, which is the collective expression of its educational
beliefs and a statement about the institution itself. In essence it
represents a consensus painstakingly reached among persons from
many and varied disciplines, and because it affects the lives and
careers of thousands of students it is never to be hastily adopted or
modified.

This is why change is relatively infrequent and why, when it
does come, as in the recent curricular revision at Washington and
Lee, it is preceded by months of discussion and debate.

The change, which was approved by the faculty at a special
meeting in March and which will become effective in the fall of
1984, is the first major revision since the late sixties. It concludes
two years of study during which a specially appointed committee
formulated its proposals and the faculty as a whole deliberated
them.

Put simply, the new curriculum will require the following of
every candidate for the undergraduate degree (to be designated
general education requirements, meaning requirements outside the
major):

English composition or demonstrated proficiency in English;

proficiency in a foreign language through the intermediate level;

six credits in English, foreign, or comparative literature;

twelve credits from at least two of the following (largely the

humanities): fine arts, history, philosophy, and religion;

® ten credits from mathematics and the natural sciences, including
at least three from mathematics and four from a laboratory
science;

© nine credits from at least two of the following (largely the
social sciences): economics, politics, psychology, and
anthropology and sociology; and,

@ physical education.

This revised curriculum, which reflects a nationwide trend away
from the greater latitude of the past decade and a return to more
traditional requirements, differs principally from the old in
specifically requiring courses in composition, a foreign language,
literature, mathematics, and the natural sciences. In effect the

 

 

Curriculum Revision

changes express the view that, generally speaking, students entering
college today are not as well prepared in English as their
counterparts once were; that particularly in an age of television and
the computer they need an understanding of their own and of a
foreign culture as it is conveyed in imaginative literature; and that
in an increasingly complex and shrinking world they must have
training in mathematics, science, and a foreign language in order to
compete successfully.

Not all of the changes, however, are in the direction of tighter
restrictions. Underlying the new plan, for example, is the
conviction that the gap between the best and the least prepared
entering student is probably wider today than in the past and that
the same requirements should not be imposed on both. Accordingly
there is provision for fulfilling requirements—especially in English
and foreign languages, but also in other areas where appropriate—
through such means as proficiency tests and advanced placement.
The practical aim of this provision is to encourage the unimpeded
advance of the best prepared.

Another provision is intended to further the progress of still

more students. Unlike the system now in effect, the revised plan
allows courses in the major to count toward fulfilling general
education requirements. An economics major, for instance, may use
six credits in economics to meet part of both his major and his
general education requirement. Reductions will be possible for the
overwhelming majority of students, and in some instances they will
bring the total number of required credits below that at the present
time.

One final feature of the plan worth mention is an attempt to
bridge artificial barriers between departments. It provides that
certain courses in a department may be considered as falling into a
category of general education requirements different from that into
which the department’s courses customarily fall. A course in
journalism that stresses expository writing, for example, might be
used to fulfill the composition requirement. Departments will
submit for faculty approval the titles of any courses they
recommend for such special designation, a continuing process
which has just begun and which suggests again the eternal nature of
curricular change: immer wird, nie ist.

 

 

 

On the day he was named Washington
and Lee’s new president, Dr. John D.
Wilson was asked what his first order of
business would be.

Without a moment’s hesitation, Wilson
replied: ‘‘My first obligation and my first
pleasure will be to come to know the people
of Washington and Lee much better than I
now do.”’

And that he has done.

In the three months since he took up
residence in Lexington in mid-January
Wilson has devoted much of his time and
energy to the task of getting to know
Washington and Lee in a variety of ways.

Perhaps the most ambitious of his
ventures involves his practice of inviting all
the undergraduate seniors and third-year law
students to dinner in the Lee House—not all
at the same time, of course.

‘*T don’t want to hand a diploma to
anyone I have not already met,’’ Wilson has

said in explaining the series of ‘‘senior’’
dinners in which randomly selected groups of
20 or so students are invited to join him for
dinner.

**T happen to believe that there is no
better way to meet people than to break
bread together,’’ Wilson explains. ‘‘I have
learned a great deal about the University in
the conversations over dinner.”’

Those conversations have ranged from
the weather (a cold and dreary spring) to the
Generals’ lacrosse fortunes (a terribly
demanding schedule) to the future of the
University (coeducation? a new curriculum?
more financial aid?).

‘*T thought the evening I spent with Dr.
Wilson was very informative and very
valuable,’’ notes one W&L senior, Thomas
Harrison of Norwich, N.Y. ‘‘Dr. Wilson not
only shared many of his ideas and
philosophies with us, but he seemed to be
genuinely interested in what we had to say

Getting

o Know

W&L

President Wilson Settles In
By Spreading Out

President Wilson watches the Generals’ baseball team.

about the University. He solicited our
opinions on a wide variety of topics that have
affected our lives here and will affect the
lives of the students who continue to come to
school here.’’

Having the dinners in the Lee House has
served a secondary purpose.

‘‘T am living in a very historic house,”’
notes Wilson. ‘‘A good many of the seniors
are seeing that house for the first time. I
think it is important that they know
something about the house since it provides
them with a better sense of the history of
their University.

‘*T doubt that I will ever have enough
time in a single academic year to have all
1,700 Washington and Lee students through
the house. But I would hope that a great
many of the students will have this
opportunity each year.”’

In addition to meeting as many of the
University’s students as he can, Wilson has

3

 

Getting To Know W&L

spent his first months getting acquainted with
the faculty members in a very personal
way—through one-on-one meetings always
held in the professor’s office.

*“What I want to do,’’ Wilson explains,
*“is come to know each of the men and
women who teach at Washington and Lee as
a person. I want to know about their
scholarly interests and whether those
interests are being fostered—or perhaps
frustrated—by the University. I want to
know what these men and women of the
faculty think about the University, about all
areas of the University not just their
particular area.”’

For Wilson—as for the professors with
whom he has met thus far—the meetings
have proved quite beneficial.

**T am very much reassured by my
meetings with the faculty,’’ Wilson says. “‘I
have yet to be in a faculty member’s office
when we have not been interrupted several
times by students. It is obvious that the
students and faculty of Washington and Lee
meet each other easily.

*‘T have been extremely impressed by the
quality of people who make up the faculty.
Clearly they are concerned about young
people and are committed and loyal to this
University.”’

A third area in which Wilson has come to
know Washington and Lee has been through
his appearance at various alumni clubs.
During March and April he addressed clubs
in Dallas-Fort Worth, Atlanta, New York,
Lynchburg, and Richmond. More
appearances are on the schedule for the rest
of the spring and the summer.

In this area, too, Wilson is impressed by
what he finds—the loyalty and support the
University’s alumni provide their alma
mater.

Somewhere between his senior dinners
and one-on-one sessions with faculty
members and trips to alumni clubs and
meetings on the budget and routine
appearances at almost every athletic contest,
lecture, and concert and sundry other
obligations involved with the day-to-day
operation of the University, Wilson has still
found time to serve on two important
commissions for Virginia Governor Charles

Robb and to continue his work on a : 4
committee mapping the future for West From left, University Trustee Edgar F. Shannon Jr., ’39; psychology professor Leonard E. Jarrard,
President Wilson, and physics professor John H. Wise converse at an informal gathering.

 

 

 

 

President Wilson is interviewed in his Washington Hall Office by Ring-tum Phi reporter Philip Murray, ’83.

 

Virginia University.

4

 

 

The Birdman of W&L

His Patients Often Forget to Pay Their Bills,
But Dr. Stuart Porter Earns Satisfaction

Dr. Stuart Porter, ’70, is preparing one of
his patients for X-rays.

The patient in question had suffered two
badly broken bones—both the radius and the
ulna—several weeks earlier. The bones had
healed incorrectly, requiring extensive
surgery in which two pins—one of steel, the
other of a lightweight plastic—were used to
stabilize and strengthen the repaired bones.

‘*As you can see right here, the bones are
mending nicely,’’ Porter explains, pointing
to the damaged area on a set of recent X-
rays. ““There is one spot—you can see it
right there—that I am a bit concerned about.
We’re going to see how that area is looking
today.’

With the aid of two technicians, Porter
maneuvers his patient into position on the
table and invites a visitor to step behind a
nearby door momentarily.

‘Okay now, hold still,’’ he tells the

by Jeffery Hanna

patient in soft, confident, reassuring tones.
**Don’t be a screwball and move around.
Nothing to it, darlin’.”’

The procedure seems entirely routine.
The same scene is repeated in hospitals and

clinics countless times every day.

There is a major difference here, though.

Porter is not X-raying just any old
patient. On the table this day, its head
covered with a sheet for safety’s sake (the
doctor’s safety, that is), lies a red tail hawk,
uncomplaining for the moment but clearly
unappreciative.

‘*That’s one thing about treating
wildlife,’’ Porter says, his eyes twinkling

mischievously above his bushy brown beard.

‘“Not many of my patients bother to thank
me.”’

Nor are the good doctor’s clientele
always prompt in paying their bills.

But Stuart Porter doesn’t seem to mind.

He’s not in it for the “Thank you’s.’ He’s in
it because, well, because it makes him feel
good. If that sounds a bit corny, then so be
it.

* * *

You can find Dr. Stuart Porter by first
finding Building B (“‘Our building names
aren’t exactly the fanciest here,’’ he allows)
at Blue Ridge Community College in Weyers
Cave, Va., just 60 miles or so up the
Interstate from Lexington.

You'll know it’s Porter’s office by the
signs and poster on the door: “* Virginia Is
For Animal Lovers,’’ ‘‘We Care About
Eagles,’’ ‘“We Love Animals.’

The walls of Porter’s tiny office are a
veritable menagerie. Orangutans. Zebras.
Four photographs showing a giraffe giving
birth. ““That’s a painful thing to watch,’’ he
says.

Porter is director of the animal

sived his degree there in
diately he landed a job.

cl, pte

 

 

 

 

So he began looking around. A position
in Weyers Cave caught his eye. He made a
trip from Texas to see what there was to.see.
‘‘And the valley captured me—again,’’ he
remembers.

That was in the fall of 1977 when he
joined the Blue Ridge Community College
staff. A year later he was named director of
the animal technology program.
Serendipitous is the way he describes that
particular turn of events.

* * *

It was not long after Porter had taken up
residence in Weyers Cave that word spread
throughout the area that here was a man
with experience in treating wildlife.

His telephone started ringing. Someone
had found an injured and homeless rabbit.
Could Dr. Porter help? Someone else had
been driving down the road and collided with
a hawk. Could Dr. Porter do something for
the injured bird?

*“You do what you can. Usually after I’d
treat an animal, I’d give it back to the people
who brought it in,’’ he says.

The turning point came about two years
ago when the phone rang and somebody
asked Porter to take a look at a golden eagle
which was seriously ill.

‘‘Amazingly enough I made the proper
diagnosis—lead poisoning—treated the
eagle, and it got better,’’ Porter explains.
‘In trying to deal with these animals,
particularly birds, I had been working with
people who are ‘rehabilitators.’ Once I did
the veterinary work I turned the animals over
to the ‘rehabilitators.’ I soon discovered that
these people didn’t know much more about
getting a bird back in flight than I did. Many
times they knew a lot less than I did. That
was Starting to depress me.

‘‘Rehabilitation is particularly important
with birds because they are flying machines.
They really have to be fixed almost perfectly
in order to go back out there and fly and hunt
and do whatever they do.

‘*The eagle is a glamorous bird anyway.
So I figured I’d rehabilitate it myself.’

So he created a flying stall—a place for
the bird to recuperate and have room to fly
short distances without reinjuring itself.

‘‘It took about a month to get the lead
levels down in the bird’s blood system. Then
I began exercising the bird by putting straps

 

*‘Don’t be a screwball . .

on its legs, taking it outside, and throwing it
in the air,’’ Porter explains.

‘‘It was doing pretty well. So well, in
fact, that I couldn’t control it on the ropes

.”’ Porter warns the patient.

Porter points to the damaged area of the hawk’ s wing on an X-ray.

Photographs by W. Patrick Hinely

 

 

because it was flying too fast. You watch
these birds crash to the ground and it’s rather
frightening.’’

As his next step Porter located someone

7

 

Birdman of W&L

with a vacant turkey house—big and long
enough for a bird to exercise without need
for a strap. Two months after the golden
eagle had been brought in, Porter released it.

‘*Off it went. We haven’t heard from it
since,’” he says.

8

At the Waynesboro center Porter checks a patient’ s progress.

 

 

The experience planted a seed. Porter and
his wife, Terry, were talking about the eagle
and the rehabilitation with some friends,
lamenting the fact that there was no place
with facilities to do what had been done with
the eagle on any regular basis.

‘‘My friend, Ed Clark, is a fund raiser
and works for conservation organizations. He
agreed to help work in funding, and I agreed
to do the veterinary work,’’ Porter says.
‘‘We contacted a Staunton lawyer, also a
W&L graduate, Wilson Vellines, ’73, and he
got us incorporated. And here we are.”’

* * *

Where we are is on Common Ground
Farm, five miles northwest of Waynesboro.
One of the two large barns on the 240-acre
farm was dedicated to the Shenandoah Valley
Wildlife Treatment and Rehabilitation
Center. A second building has been made
available for future expansion.

On the lower level of the two-story barn,
five of the 10 box stalls have been converted
to indoor bird or small animal cages. Rooms
on the upper level have been turned into a
clinic and intensive care area, an isolation
facility for animals with contagious diseases,
and storage space for the scores of metal
holding cages which will initially house the
birds and animals treated at SVWTRC.

The center opened last November. Since
then, almost 40 animals, most of them birds,
have been treated and released.

‘*T think we’ve done incredibly well.

We’ ve been getting close to 75 percent of the
animals rehabilitated,’’ Porter says. ‘‘I’ve
seen everything from great blue herons to
golden eagles. The majority of the patients
are various kinds of hawks and owls.”’

Porter’s patient of this day, the red tail
hawk, was referred by a nearby Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
chapter.

‘“When it came to us, the two bones of
the right wing had already healed but had
healed at right angles,’’ he explains. ‘*I’m
not keen on bone surgery, so I asked a local
veterinarian to do this surgery while I
assisted. So far this hawk hasn’t flown, but
at least it looks normal. Maybe it will never
fly. You really don’t know.

‘‘There are so few people doing this sort
of thing that you don’t know what you can
get away with and sometimes you’re
surprised. A lot of times we’ll try something
on an animal that might have been better off
put to sleep. We’re trying not to create
cripples. Where do you put one-winged red
tail hawks?”’

If the red tail hawk can be rehabilitated,

a a i (tsi ( i‘ ( Se


is usually unsuspecting; the crowd
Yo one remembers how the traditi

 

 

 

 

‘*What is he like?’’ asked the girl.

‘*That is hard to tell,’’ said the man thoughtfully. ‘‘You see, Oz is a great
Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes. So that some say he looks like
a bird; and some say he looks like an elephant; and some say he looks like a
cat. To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a brownie, or in any other
form that pleases him. But who the real Oz is, when he is in his own form,
no living person can tell.”’

‘*That is very strange,’ said Dorothy; ‘“but we must try, in some way, to
see him, or we shall have made our journey for nothing.”’

The Wizard of Oz

 

Part Ill

 

STAN KAMEN, ’49, AGENT

 

If there is a throne room in Hollywood, it is at the William
Morris Agency in Beverly Hills, California. The giant studios,
where movie moguls once reigned supreme, are now gone. Today,
the business in the kingdom of dreams is handled mainly by
Hollywood agents, who operate from within their separate fiefdoms
to decide the course of the television and film empire. Producers
still produce, directors direct, writers write, actors act, but behind
them all, behind the curtain of nearly every project that comes to
the screen, are the agents, pulling strings.

The largest and oldest talent agency in the world is the William
Morris Agency (New York, Beverly Hills, Nashville, London,
Rome, Munich, Sydney). And the premier agent in the firm is Stan
Kamen, Executive Vice President.

* * *

In the neighborhood of the William Morris Agency of Beverly
Hills—past the honking, panting, rushing bustle of Los Angeles,
past the serene opulence of Beverly Hills’ more imposing residential
sections, one block down from an exotic automobile showroom
(candy-colored Lamborghinis in adobe rooms)—there is a hushed
avenue lined with the tall, leafy, languid trees of old California.
You know you’re near great power. It is so quiet.

The agency occupies a building that seems less like something
built up from the ground than something set down from the sky. It
1S a vast, smokey glass structure, cubic, anonymous, indifferent,
Opaque—it is cousin to the monolith in 200]: A Space Odyssey. It
is simply there.

When you enter the lobby, you enter to no sound. The glass,
thick carpet, and plush, twenty-first-century lounge furniture are
designed, if not to welcome, to absorb any stir of intrusion. Sotto
voce, security personnel take your name and then telephone your
arrival. You are escorted down long corridors honeycombed with
offices. You breeze past typing stations, each staffed by minor
goddesses, typists of dazzling loveliness who flutter and beam.

At the end of the hall are Stan Kamen’s offices. His young
assistant, casually dressed, greets you brightly—you have arrived,
as one does soon in California, in the region of easy familiarity.

**Stan will be here shortly. Go in and make yourself
comfortable. May I bring you anything?’’

Kamen’s office resembles the library of a sophisticated Arizona
cowboy. Lined with bookshelves filled with volumes on film and
Renaissance art, the room is decorated in a western motif, with
rich, dark woods, Indian paintings, statuary, and a few quaint relics
from Hollywood’s golden era of western movies. In the room are
three telephones, each with several buttons, and a clock displaying
the time in all of the world’s time zones. You begin to wonder how
you can get out of there.

Kamen enters. He has a well-groomed, trim, dignified
appearance. His movements are quick, light, economical. The only
inconsistency in his traditional executive attire is a rather broad

The Wizards Of Oz
Part Il

W&L’s Hollywood Connection

by Robert Fure

 

leather belt in the Western mode. He is polite but unemotional,
steady, clear; he gazes at you directly with heavy-lidded, vaguely
melancholy eyes. He has just arrived from his two acre spread
overlooking the Pacific at Malibu. He is in his office now, ready to

get down to business here at the heart of the hive.
* * *

Kamen’s demeanor alters only slightly as he traces his life since
his days as a student at Washington and Lee. His mood shifts subtly
between matter-of-factness and mild discomfort (he is after all the
agent of celebrity, not its object). There are flickers of warmth, but
it is too early in the morning for nostalgia. With Kamen, it must
always be so.

11

 

 

 

: o

 

 

 

 

 

to

 

 

ne

i

N

 

rather

J

 

?

 

ty McNichol
out

a sma

 

iS. Or

clien

 

 

 

oN
g
3
g

|

 

 
 
 
   
 
 
 

 

3 need to bounce around ideas with someone. Agents can

nts well in that capacity, as well as in
s and bringing properties to their attention. But in

 

ar ‘ists make their own decisions as to whether to do a

’ ering 2 world of Hollywo 00d, where fame and fortune
- a s quickly as won, agents are crucial. ‘‘I think a

   

pat for him, especially when it comes to

salary or a percentage of the profits. The nice —
lz tionship with my clients. They’re nice

 

am en is not inclined to |
al clients. He well dal 7

 

 

‘Pictures wanted him to take over as president of the comp:

The Wizards of Oz

always strong with people in this business. But I know that my

 

_ honor is respected by my clients and by the people I deal with for

them.”’ |

_ Kamen speaks with the quiet assurance that inspires confidence.
You would like to bring him home to meet your parents as the one
who is now taking care of you out there in the cruel world. The old
image of the fast-talking, hustling, back-slapping Hollywood agent
does not apply. Kamen simply listens, Permits imsel.
observations, and—you know it’s:

 

 

   

 
  
 

But who is Stan Kamen? Ag ‘in, |
Jim Farrar, former college nam ¢
ae for the Alu turn Y

 
  
  

rs. “As a student he ' was always polite and
min menable, but also quite serious about his
tudies. Still, on Saturday nights he could get drunk and talk all ©
d get fun id funnier. But Stan’s humor was never off-
ature. a aaa vay alk to Stan.

  
  
     
 

 

were all WWII veteran know, whch was why we
) Cli zy. "But Stan v was ss always a gentle man in the truest
sense. And now, there he is right at the top of that Zoo out there.
How he keeps it all together, I’ll never know.”’ Farrar rummages
through his files.
“‘He’s been written up in Time and several other magazines and

newspapers. There are references to him in books about

 

 

~ Hollywood—William Goldman’s Tinsel, for example. The | book on

the Begelman

 

dal, Indecent Exposure, reports that Columbia
ry. But
Stan turned it down. He was always one to do his own thing.”’
Farrar shakes his head and won’t stop talking. Kamen belongs
to him in the way that old friends who make
remember the time when Lae a
*  O* Ok
Hollywood i is 3, 000 miles from Washing
course, commonly understood of mi
indeed some distance away, a somewhere over t}
Stan Kamen, Mike Norell, Jeb Rosebrook, Rich did
Cook, and Paul Maslansky, all a men From Wal» who

 

 

   

 

Bood always do. “I

 
  
   
        

13

Gazette

Sharp appointed
Radford Professor

Henry Sharp Jr., professor of —
mathematics at Emory University, has been
named The Rupert and Lillian Radford
Professor of Mathematics and head of the —
department of mathematics at Washington
and Lee, effective September 1, 1983.

The Radford Professorship was created at
Washington and Lee in 1982 as the result of

a gift from the Rupert Radford Trust, created ©

by the late Rupert Radford - Houston,

Texas.

Sharp has bon a oe a the Se acaty

at Einory for 25 years.

___ **We are indeed fortunate that Dr. Sharp
a become the first Radford Professor of -

_ Mathematics,” said William J. Watt, dean of .
the college. at W&L. ‘‘He is highly regarded.

- as a teacher with a broad range of interests.
_ He has been a leader in the academic and
administrative :

: Ss at Emory. lam
_ confident that h il bea eee addition
_ not only to the depa )
Washington and LL
community.” _
A native of Nashville, Tem n.,
_ received his bachelor’s degree in civ
| engineering from Vanderbilt in 1947. He
earned both the A.M. and Ph.D. in
- mathematics from Duke University.
 +He began his teaching career as an

oe but t to the entire WL

Sharp

assistant professor at Georgia Tech i in 1953
and he joined the faculty at Emory as an

assistant professor i in 1956. He was named
_ associate professor i in 1958 and full a
| a 1967,

_ Sharp has ack. on two oo
occasions —1960-61 and 1972-75—as

chairman of the department of mathematics —

_ at Emory. He has held every elective office —
for which he was Hebles as a member of the
ee at Emory.

_ He is a charter renee of the Vanderbilt
chapter of Tau Beta Pi, the engineering —
honor society. He held a National Science
Foundation Faculty Fellowship for 1964-65
at the University of Virginia and received a
National Science Foundation Grant for
Scientific Research in 1968-69. He was a
participant in an NSF Industrial Research _
Participation Program at the Lockheed- —

44

Henry Sharp 7

: Coe Ca in 1969 aad was a
consultant for Lockheed-Georgia Company
_ in the summer of 1980.

He has served as a consultant with the

ae / 7 of Georgia Governor’s =< Program /
i de and 1981.

He is the author of four peels
textbooks published by Prentice-Hall, Inc., ;

and has written numerous articles i in

ae journals.

Sharp and his wife, Vicor Alexander,
are the parents of two children: Henry,
currently a student at the University of

Virginia, | and Margaret, currently a student : at
the Uae of Colorado.

- Ree Docherty i is

Howerton scholar

The Rev. George MacPherson Docherty,
minister emeritus of The New York Avenue

Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C., is
a visiting scholar-in-residence at Washington
and Lee this spring under the Philip Fullerton

Howerton Endowment Fund.
As a Howerton Scholar, Rev. Docherty

will teach a seminar on Christian ethics

the Flag to include the words

Rev. George M. Docherty

during W&L's nak spring term.
Born in Glasgow, Scotland, and educated

at Glasgow University, Rev. Docherty was
- minister at Sandyhills Church of Scotland |
from 1939 to 1944. He was minister co- _
_adjutor at the Barony, the Parish Church of

Glasgow, doing special inner-city work

under the Iona Youth Trust from 1944 to

1947 and later served for three years as_

‘minister at the downtown North nuh in
_ Aberdeen, Scotland.

Rev. Docherty was called t to The co

York Avenue Presbyterian Church in 1950

and served there until his retirement in 1976.

During his 26 years in Washington, Rev. |
_ Docherty appeared regularly « on WTIG-TV
(Channel 5) under the auspices of the _
Council of Churches. He also broadcast
sermons every Sunday evening for 10 years
over WMAL radio in Washington.

In 1954, Rev. Docherty preached a

sermon entitled ‘“‘One Nation Under God”’ in

the presence of President and Mrs. Dwight

D. Eisenhower. That sermon led to an’

amendment of the Pledge of Allegiance to
| ““under God.’’
He is the author of One Way of Living, a

- 1958 volume published by Harper and Row,

and was a contributor to That Day With —

 

 

 

 

God, a compilation of national religious
expressions of faith following the —

assassination of President John F. Kennedy. :

_ Rev. Docherty was moderator of the

Washington City Presbytery i in 1962 and has _

conducted preaching seminars for the
Defense Department for chaplains in the
European theatre since 1975.

He was visiting lecturer in homiletics at

the Episcopal Seminary in Alexandria, Va.,
in 1976-77 and was the J. Omar Good

80. |

a oe Pa a United Site
citizen in 1960. He has received honorary —
degrees from Temple University and

~ Monmouth College. He is currently _
inst Andrews, Scotland. _

The Philip F. Howerton Fund v was

_ — hed at Wel » Mr. tot s

Professor at Juniata (Pa. ) oF in 1979- |

Lewis Kerr Jehason
—:1904- 1983

ewe Kee Johnson, 78, Robert G.
Brown Professor of Administration, Emeri-

‘| tus, at Washington and Lee, where he taught
f for 40 years before his retirement in 1973,
| died March 26 in a Roanoke ee
| following a brief illness.

A graveside service was ae March 29 |

| in the Stonewall Jackson Cemetery i in Lex-
| ington. Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of
| ee at W&L, officiated.

Johnson is survived by his e Mar-

-garet Lupton Johnson of Lexington; a
| daughter, Mrs. Martha Kerr Harris of
_ Athens, Ga.; a sister, Miss Copeland John-
son of Waynesboro; and, two grandch

 

He Gazette

number of individuals who are changing their
careers. This year, for instance, we have
gotten a number of applications from college
professors. Last year I was seeing more
applications from bankers and stock
brokers.’’

Henneman suggested the state of the
economy as a possible reason for the increase
in applicants coming directly from college.

‘*The current job market could well be
involved in causing students to move directly
from undergraduate to graduate school rather
than trying to compete for a job at this
point,’’ Henneman said.

In terms of objective standards as
indicated by the scores on standardized tests
and college transcripts, Henneman indicated
that this year’s pool of applications is “‘at
least as good as, if not aos than, the
applicants from a year ago.’

Washington and Lee’s law school has an
enrollment of 364 students for the 1982-83
academic year.

W&L archaeologists _
make Botetourt find _

_ An archaeological survey team from
Washington and Lee uncovered two

prehistoric sites on Tinker Creek in Botetourt

County while conducting a contract survey in
that area in March.

According to James 1. Adams Jr. survey

archaeologist at W&L, the two sites are in
close proximity in the vicinity of Tinker —
Mill. Both are small transient campsites from
the archaic and possibly the ees
periods, Adams said.

‘‘These sites are fairly common
throughout the uplands,’’ noted —_

‘‘During the course of our field —
_ reconnaissance and sub-surface testing, we
uncovered several projectile points and waste
flakes. The sites associated with this type of
material are indicative of short-term.
occupation by small groups of hunters.”’

The W&L team, directed by John

McDaniel, associate professor of
_ anthropology at W&L, was contracted by an
engineering firm to conduct a Phase I survey
of a 109,000-foot drainage basin in
preparation for a proposed gravity sewer line
to be built in the area.

This is the third such survey that
Washington and Lee has been selected to
conduct during this academic year. The
selection is based on competitive bidding
with survey teams from other academic and
research institutions. Earlier, W&L teams

16

Archaeologist James T. Adams Jr.

sites in Pearistung ad Hot Springs.

In addition to McDaniel and Adams, the _

W&L survey team was ‘composed of four —

Washington and Lee undergraduates—senior

Michael Gregory of Richmond, sophomore -
John Delany of Lexington, sophomore

_ Randall Ray of Wake Forest, N.C., and —

freshman Ted Goebel of Coolville, Ohio.
Another member of the | survey team was |
Dr. Alan Sullivan, an archaeologist from |

_ Arizona. ‘McDaniel explained that Sullivan

was asked to participate in the. project
‘‘because we knew his experience in the
Southwest would be very helpful to us. His

_ involvement was wonderful for our students —
who had the opportunity to discuss variations

in techniques and strategies with him.’”’

Adams noted that the students who
participated in the project all had previous
experience in such surveys.

‘*The real value of conducting a survey
such as this one is that it presents the
students with an opportunity for practical
application of the techniques they have
learned in the classroom,’’ said Adams.

Since 1977, Washington and Lee has
been awarded 15 contracts to conduct
surveys, varying from the preliminary Phase
I variety to the more comprehensive Phase II
and Phase III surveys. _

29 inducted
into Phi Beta Kappa

Twenty-eight undergraduate students at
Washington and Lee and one 1982 W&L
graduate have been elected to membership in
the University’ s Gamma of Virginia Chapter

of Phi Beta Kappa.

In addition, Leonard E. Jarrard, —.

of psychology at W&L, had been elected to”
_ membership in Phi Beta Kappa as an

honorary election. -
The Gamma of Virginia Cha. was

installed at Washington and Lee in 191 1 and

annually elects a limited number of students
whose academic record and character are
superior. __

The new webs were ocd at the
Phi Beta Kappa/Cincinnati Society _ :
Convocation on March 1 in Lee Chapel. The
annual Phi Beta Kappa address was delivered
by Van Doorn Ooms, chief economist for

Economist Van Doorn Ooms delivers Phi Beta Kappa address.

 

 

& Gazette |

minds of Mr. Reagan and his advisers—with _ |
the people hungry, workers ground down by

management, the secret police listening to —
every conversation, a military colossus with

no freedom, no law, no belief in God—could
not survive a single major crisis,’ : Berman -

argued. -
‘‘The system that has actually been
_ created is quite different. It is a viable

totalitarian order, capable of surviving the |

death of its leading personalities, ee -
very inely of surviving even a olay in
: war. 99

_ the Soviet presence in the world. ‘‘We must
find a way to live in peace with Soviet __
~ leaders and the Soviet people,” he said.
“We must oppose them when they are

‘wrong, ie we must not needlessly offend

—

: : W&L journalists

 

 

bean. said that Americans must accept

‘McCarthy, E Ehrlichman _

debate Ist Amendment —
Former Senator Eugene McCarthy

coneaded that presidential sun ao
oe progressively become more secretive. _

Former Nixon aide John Ehrlichman —
countered by suggesting that there might be

more sharing of information by the executive _
- branch if presidents could depend. on :
ee

_ A crowd estimated at t1 300 co (
two men discuss, if not truly debate, ‘th
issues of First Amendment rights i in Wz

- Center at W&L in March.

‘The program was presented by (
ee eee ee

 

 

/ ae the pa t

7 ee in its ene in New Orleans
had the effect of reducing the Pressure ona

lawyer to reveal his or her client’s criminal -

intent. The lawyers who took part in the -
institute regarded that action as a step in the

wrong direction. The consensus was that the

ABA’s action did not work toward

eee the i image of the bar.’

_ It was the consensus of the institute _
participants that there is very little i in legal
education that addresses the ot :
“moral duty 7

“The practicing io ad that ee

re unaware during their law school years
oO the 1 major impact that cuestion: of ethics -
uld have on their profession,’’ said —

Hodges. ‘The moral education of lawyers ne —

Ane from the standards and

1, , ee the Center for Philosophy _
1 E ae Jr., ‘74, °77L, senior assistant We

 

_ (1983 Poetry Series. Hecht, w

Le Gazette

one of the seminar sessions in which the
participants examined the ways in which
laws must be adjusted in order to keep —
abreast of the changes in medical ,
technology.

In the arts

—The Washington and Lee University
Theatre presented Robert Anderson’s Tea
_ and Sympathy in March as its third offering
of the 1982-83 season. The play was directed
_by Paula Langdon, instructor in drama, and
_ featured junior Larry Butler of Hampton,
Va. , and junior Christopher Cartmill of
Lincoln, Neb., in leading roles.
—Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Anthony
_ Hecht read from his works in March as
_ of the Glasgow En lowment Committee’s
ho won the
_ Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1968 for his —
volume entitled The Hard. Hours, was the

“The fact i is hat oe e: power : a and
welding equipment are almost the traditional

machines, the traditional tools a sculptor _

uses.”’
And the = equipment, much of i it added to

in a March concert.

_ addition . five saxophonists and two.

es the activity in

i W&L z art ¢ department th this year, is s getting
plenty ofuse.
_ The Lee of that use were on display

guitarists to the University’ S existing Brass

Coe

Ss Michael Black of Shreveport, La., works
ona wood sculpture.

in 1 Ma ce the University had its annual
student art show in duPont Gallery.
The show included oil paintings,

 

Welty, as one of the offerings by the
University Theatre. Juniors Drew Perkins
and Ted Petrides and sophomore Terry
McWhorter were featured in the play.

—The Stradivari Quartet presented the
final program in this year’s Washington and
Lee Concert Guild series in n March.

Faculty activity

_ —Alfred G. Fralin Jr., associate
- professor of. romance languages at WE&L,
delivered a paper to a section on American

_ literature at the Twentieth Century Literature - :

Conference at the University of Louisville i in
February. Fralin’s paper was a oF
study entitled “Naturalistic Violence and >

-Purgation in Dickey’s ‘Deliverance’: Echoes /

of Zola’s ‘Germinal. >»? The theme of the
conference v was s “Rage and De a "The

inding in all forms—figurative to

| constructi nist.
“But we don’ t want to be oe of SS

giving only one alternative,’’ he said. ‘ “Our

goal here is a different goal from one you

_ might find in other situations where the _

students are, for instance, not permitted to

take an art course unless they are majoring in

art. Here the goal is to widen and broaden
the student’s perspective of things. We have
philosophy majors and chemistry majors and

politics majors spending a few hours a week

welding or working with a wood sculpture.
“My goal is to put the students ina

textbook co-written by Washington and Lee

professor Bruce Herrick has recently been
published by McGraw-Hill. Herrick, head of
the economics department at W&L, and

Charles Kindleberger of the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology are the authors of the
text, Economic Development. More than _

three years in preparation, the revision seeks —

to introduce the most recent advances in the

economics of low-income countries. It draws

heavily on Herrick’s field experience, most

recently in Central America and Mexico.
Herrick joined the W&L faculty in 1980.

: —An article that details a teaching
technique developed by a Washington and |

Lee German professor has been published in»
the spring issue of Die Unterrichtspraxis, a

_ journal published by the American
Association of Teachers of German. Entitled

: ‘Teaching Attributive Adjective Endings —

and Adjectival Nouns: An Attempt at
_ Simplification,”’

the article was written by
De vid B. _ Dickens, associate professor of
jem cle Dickens —

devoted to methodology of teaching German.

- The American Association of Teachers of
German has 7,000 members and includes

teachers on all levels. Dickens has been a
member of the Washington and Lee faculty
since 1960.

—An exhibition of paintings by W&L art
professor I-Hsiung Ju was on display in the

E&J Frankel Gallery in New York City

during March and April. Entitled ‘Bamboo:

Symbol and Substance,”’ the exhibition is

composed exclusively of paintings of |
- bamboo. Born in China in 1937, Ju migrated
to the Phillipines because of the war in |
China. He received his B.F.A. and M. A. in

history from the University of Santo Thomas

in Manila. Ju joined the faculty at
Washington -~ Lee as artist-in-residence i in
| 1969.

ee Kinpow Jr. an a R.

Novack, sociology professors at Washington: _
and Lee, presented a paper on prison
_ organization to the 46th annu ,
_ the Southern Sociological S .

LeCuyer uses a welding torch ts to Prepare a metal

sculpture a the student art show.

setting that allows them to be creative, to

_ give them the necessary tools and materials.

But I can’t make them be creative. That’s up
to them. And I want them to feel good about

‘the fact that the ideas they are pursuing when
they start welding a large metal sculpture

together, for instance, are their own ideas,
not mine.”’

 

University, done the summer of 1982.
_Novack’s contribution grew out of his Jong
standing interest in penology and
criminology and, more particularly, from his.
participation in a N ational Endowment for —
_ the Humanities seminar on ‘‘Crime and —
- Punishment in America’’ held at the
University of Virginia during the summer of _
— 1979. Kimbrough, professor of sociology, |
has been a member of the W&L faculty since
1962 whi Novack, associate lee of
- sociolog j ed the ae in 1976.

 

 

investors based on his personal experiences

and gave his predicaons og the future of the |

market.

Photographer Roe Mertin of the
University of Rochester presented a lecture |
entitled ‘“The a Education of a
Photographer”’ i in March.

_ —Joe Kaestner, assistant.
commonwealth’s attorney for the city of
Richmond, presented a talk entitled “The

Investigating Prosecutor in White Collar and pe 7

Corruption Cases”’ i in March under 3
: sponsorship of the Tucker Law Forum and
the dep artment of journalism a and :

communications.

 

_—Mrs. Susanne oo ae official a ; a

lecturer for the Ministry of Culture and —
Communication for Historical Sites and
Monuments i in France, presented an
- illustrated lecture i in March entitled —

“Residences of Louis XIV: St. Germain, ] 4

—Ar i proteesor | fon ae

 

jee of Chicago discussed the ae in (

_ which American Christianity has addressed _
pale pe ue lecture i in n March.

: ‘US S. ped! hay ae for 18 years
"before his retirement this year, ae a

talk, “A Byrd’: s Eye View,”’ in March. His

__ appearance was sponsored by the Tucker —
Law Forum in the W&L School of Law.

_ —Joseph Gold, director of the =
International Monetary Fund, spoke at the

the Tucker Law Forum. _

 

7 Awards, honors |

—Kevin B. Dwyer, 81, is one oO 13
national winners of a Luce Scholarship for a
year’s study i in East Asia. Dwyer, who is
currently a second-year law student at the
University of Virginia, is the third
Washington and Lee nominee to be named a
Luce Scholar as part of the program that _

_ Kapaa and Omicron Delta K

. take danage of the progt rat

_ Rikkyo, Sean is the first of « our students to . .
awarded a scholarship for an entire academic
year. This represents quite an impressive __

be in 1974.

WEL is one of 60 cll: ea a

the Henry A. Luce Foundation of New York _
_ to participate in the program by nominating —

qualified students. The Luce Scholars _

Program is unique in that it excludes Asian -
specialists and international affairs experts in -

_ unrelated to Asian specialities. _ -_

_A native of Leesburg, Va., oe isa eone ]

_ _ magna cum laude graduate of W&L where ft
_ majored in English. _

tV V&L, he was cle

 

a a cal Wel senior Roe neti is in

residence at Rikkyo while one Rik yo
student, Akiko Nishi, is enrolled at _ _ _
Washington and Lee under the exchange
_ program. W&L is one of four American —
_ institutions with which Rikkyo has an
School of Law in 7 under the a Of

exchange agreement. The others are ce

University of Chicago, the Deane of the
na and Kenyon Collen:

ee a aady at

 

accomplishment for Sean,’’ said Minor L.

_ Rogers, associate professor of een at
WAL. ©

During his year at Rikkyo, Leone will

continue to take courses in his major fields of
_ Study. He will also pursue studies in —

and fees. _
+ “Weare oa pel ion Karl, _
. . said H. Thomas Williams, associate
professor of physics at \ :
faculty adviser. “This is a major. honor for —
him and an honor that he has earned during —
his two years here.”’ Keller is a transfer
7 student from the University of Nebraska.
 —A story from a recent issue of |
Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’ Ss ae
magazine, has been chosen for inclusion i in
The Best American Short Stories 1983 to be
_ published in the fall by Houghton Mifflin

history.
. —Scott W. Hall, aW&L senior from
_ Danville, Va., is the University’s 1983 _

: "recipient of the James Lewis Howe Award.
The Howe Award is presented by the Blue

_ Rides ae of the American Chemical —
_ favor of young men and women whose — |
_ leadership potential is in fields totally

  
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
    

 

Company. The story, entitled ‘‘Beebee,”’

was written by Diane Vreuls, who teaches in

the Creative Writing Program at Oberlin
College. Ms. Vreuls has published a novel,
stories, and poems. _

V&L and Keller's

_ Japanese language, Fapanology, a and Japanese : :

 

Chapter News

 

with Dr. S. Fulton Tompkins, ’37, a visitor from Oklahoma City. In the
background is Allen C. Shepard, ’71.

ROANOKE—At luncheon, facing camera, were William J. Lemon, ’55,
"SOL; Jack B. Coulter, ’49L; Lucius E. Johnson, ’56; and Earl Fitzpatrick,
"SIL.

SAN FRANCISCO. The chapter’s year-end meeting was held in
December at the Marines Memorial Club in San Francisco. Van
Pate, ’71, a professor of French at W&L and also associate director
of admissions, was the speaker. Pate had also done student
recruiting at the high schools in the Bay Area. He spoke on ‘*The
Washington and Lee Student—Focus on West Coast.’’ The program
followed a social hour of cocktails and hors d’oeuvres. The chapter
was pleased to have Dr. S. Fulton Tompkins, ’37, of Oklahoma
City as a guest. He was visiting his brother, Dr. Pendleton S.
Tompkins, ’27, of San Mateo, Calif. Nat Baker, ’67, president of
the chapter, was in charge of the arrangements.

DELMARVA. John M. McDaniel, ’64, associate professor of
anthropology at W&L, was the featured speaker at the chapter’s
annual dinner meeting on Jan. 15, at the Talbot Country Club in
Easton, Md. McDaniel presented color slides of the archaeological

24

SAN FRANCISCO—Associate Director of Admissions Van Pate, ’71, talks

 

OREGON—At the first Oregon meeting were (standing) Sean Gilronan,
’74L; Joe Moffatt, ’50; Kent Pearson, ’82L; Jill Otey, ’81L; Howard Arnest,
’19L; Palmer Pardington, ’61, and Don Palmer, ’64; (kneeling) Tudor Hall,
’°60; Carl McLeod, ’43; and Dick Cronin, ’44.

 

ROANOKE—Waiting for the program to get under way at the Patrick Henry
Hotel was Robert S. Goldsmith Jr., 51, ’53L, and S. Saunders Guerrant Jr.,
23.

digs in the Shenandoah Valley. His observations about Washington
and Lee generated enthusiastic discussion. On the day before the
dinner, several alumni had arranged to accompany Professor
McDaniel on a goose hunt. McDaniel is an avid hunter and is the
author of a book on turkey hunting. James M. Slay Jr., ’65, ’71L,
made the splendid arrangements. Plans were announced for a
reception for Dr. John Wilson, president of the University, at a later
date.

OREGON AREA. The first meeting ever of alumni in the state of
Oregon took place in Beaverton, a suburb of Portland on Jan. 23.
An enthusiastic group of 18 persons, including spouses, enjoyed
cocktails and a delicious steak dinner at the Greenwood Inn. There
was no formal program but plenty of reminiscing and “‘story
telling.’’ It was announced that Palmer Pardington, ’61, was the
official admissions representative, and alumni should contact him

 

ROANOKE—Lunching with the speaker were Nelson S. Teague, ’58; James NEW ORLEANS—Chapter President Ricky Bates, ’76, welcomes Glee Club
W. Jennings, ’65, ’72L; Dr. William Jenks, ’39, the speaker; Dr. Robert S. Director Gordon Spice and his singers to a reception at the home of Trustee
Hutcheson, ’40; and William J. Lemon, ’55, ’59L. Emeritus and Mrs. Joseph T. Lykes Jr., ’41.

 

 

NEW ORLEANS—Alumni and friends enjoy cocktails while listening to the PENSACOLA—At alumni lunch were Brooks Hines, ’69, Broox Garrett, ’70;
Glee Club’s performance. The host, Trustee Emeritus Joseph T. Lykes Jr., Bill Noonan, ’43; Scott Rickoff, ’73; Henry Yonge, ’42; Pinky Bach, ’28;
41, is at far right. Buzz Lee, ’41; Don Partington, ’61, ’64L; Frontis Sherrill, ’28; Charlie

 

Sherrill, 60; Chris Hart, ’68, and Dick Harbison, ’54.

concerning the recruiting of any good student. H. Tudor Hall, ’60, New Orleans chapter of W&L alumni held an outdoor afternoon
who is with Cessna Finance Corp. in Troutdale, made the splendid reception for the Washington and Lee Glee Club. Trustee Emeritus
arrangements and received the thanks of the group. and Mrs. Joseph T. Lykes Jr., ’41, hosted the party in the backyard
of their Metairie home. The Glee Club and Southern Comfort,
ROANOKE. One of the best attended meetings in recent years under the direction of Professor Gordon Spice, entertained the
took place at the luncheon on Jan. 25 at the Patrick Henry Hotel. alumni and guests. The group was on the last day of a Washington
The featured speaker was Dr. William A. Jenks, ’39, the Kenan Holiday tour through Texas. Chapter officers Ricky Bates, ’76,
professor of history at Washington and Lee whose topic was the president; John Carrere, ’69, vice president; and Julian Good, ’78,
intricate relationships within the Islamic world. Scotty Farrar, ’76, treasurer; did an excellent job of arranging the event. Other guests
made an announcement about a proposed bus trip to the Virginia from the University were Mrs. Gordon Spice, who accompanied the
lacrosse game on April 17 and requested a show of hands for those Glee Club on their tour, and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
interested. James Jennings, ’65, ’72L, chapter president, presided at secretary.
the meeting and announced plans for a reception for the
University’s new president, Dr. John Wilson, later in the spring. PENSACOLA. Area alumni, including Broox Garrett, ’70, and
Brooks Hines, ’69, who came down from Brewton, Ala., met for
NEW ORLEANS. Enjoying lovely spring weather on Feb. 19, the lunch on Feb. 23 at the Pensacola Country Club. The chapter was

25

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter News

 

CHARLOTTE—At annual meeting are Chapter President Luther H. Dudley

II, ’76; Mrs. William C. Washburn; Mrs. Dudley; Dr. Tom Nye, the speaker;

and Mrs. John L. Crist Jr.

FORT WORTH—At a large W&L gathering in Fort Worth, President John
D. Wilson (right) talks with Richard L. Heard, ’44, and William L. Evans
Jr., °41.

privileged to have the Rev. Dick Harbison, ’54, present to deliver
an appropriate blessing. Following lunch, Chapter President Chris
Hart, ’68, made several announcements and conducted elections for
a new president. Miner Harrell, ’71, was unanimously elected to the
post. Buddy Atkins, 68, assistant alumni secretary, reported on
current events at the University, particularly the early weeks of Dr.
John D. Wilson’s presidency and the selection of Professor Frederic
L. Kirgis Jr. as new dean of the School of Law. The program
concluded with Atkins answering questions from the audience.

CHARLOTTE. The annual fall chapter meeting was held Feb. 26
at the Charlotte Country Club, and the featured speaker was Dr.
Tom Nye, professor of biology at Washington and Lee. Dr. Nye
told of the exciting summer programs now being held at

26

 

CHARLOTTE—Mrs. Luther H. (Shug) Dudley II talks with Mrs. Rush S.
Dickson and husband Rush, ’76, during cocktail hour at the Charlotte
County Club.

FORT WORTH—Among those at the dinner meeting were William Y.
Harvey, a parent of a student; Rice M. Tilley Jr., ’58, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors, and University Trustee Frank G. Young, ’66.

Washington and Lee for alumni and their families as well as for
high school students. His remarks were enthusiastically received.
The arrangements for the delicious cocktail reception were made by
Luther Dudley, ’76, president of the chapter who presided over the
brief program. Several parents of current students were present as
were Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Washburn of Lexington. President
Dudley announced that plans were under way to have a reception
perhaps in the spring or summer for Dr. John Wilson, the new
president of Washington and Lee University.

FORT WORTH. One of the largest alumni gatherings on record
was on hand to greet Dr. John D. Wilson, new president of
Washington and Lee University, on March 22, at The Petroleum
Club. The splendid arrangements were made by Tom Larimore,

|. .e——“ re tC tssC“‘ ‘ eC

FORT WORTH—Frank A. Bailey III, ’66, greets Chapter President Tom
Larimore, ’59, (at microphone) and Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Seleny of Trinity
Valley School.

DALLAS—Trustee Emeritus John Stemmons, ’31, reception host, greets
William B. Hoofstitler, ’36, and Judge Charles E. Long Jr., ’32.

’59, president of the chapter who presided at the dinner meeting. A
lovely cocktail reception preceded the banquet. Larimore
recognized Frank G. Young, ’66, a member of the University Board
of Trustees and Rice M. Tilley, 58, a member of the Alumni Board
of Directors as well as several guests from the local high schools.
He introduced Dr. Wilson who made a splendid report on
Washington and Lee University and its strengths and challenges.
Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of development and Bill Washburn,
40, alumni secretary were also present.

DALLAS. Trustee Emeritus John Stemmons, ’31, and Mrs.
Stemmons hosted the chapter’s lovely reception for Dr. John
Wilson, the new president of Washington and Lee, on March 23 at
the Northwood Club in Dallas. The outstanding event was attended

 

 

 

 

 

DALLAS—University President John D. Wilson (center) meets J. Bowman
William, ’75, new chapter president, and J. Harvey Allen Jr., ’61, outgoing
chapter president.

DALLAS—Among the guests were C. M. (Pat) Patrick III, ’82; Douglas G.
Sheldon, ’82; and C. M. Patrick Jr., ’55.

by a large number of alumni and their guests and many
representatives of local colleges and universities. In addition to Dr.
Wilson in the receiving line was J. Harvey Allen Jr., ’61, retiring
president of the chapter. Allen presided over the dinner program.
After expressing sincere thanks on behalf of the chapter to Mr. and
Mrs. Stemmons, Allen recognized the special guests and introduced
the evening’s speaker, Dr. Wilson. In his report on the University,
Dr. Wilson expressed his sense of pride and privilege in being
named to serve Washington and Lee. He commented on the
University’s strengths and outlined some of its future challenges.
His remarks were enthusiastically received. It was announced that
Bowman Williams, ’75, would become the new chapter president.
The delightful evening concluded with a rendition, by the string
musicians, of the ‘‘W&L Swing”’ and ‘‘College Friendships.”’

27

a a a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDWIN W. CHITTUM, though retired from education,
is still very active. He is chairman of the Eastern
Virginia Medical School Board, vice chairman of
First Virginia Bank of Tidewater, vice chairman of
Cross-Country Cable TV, on the board of trustees of
Old Dominion University’s Education Foundation,
and a director of Hunter Foundation.

Dr. W. TopD DEvaAN, a retired surgeon in Hanover,
Pa., enjoys golfing, traveling, racing, and the breed-
ing of standard bred horses. He is president of the
Hanover area Historical Society and a trustee of the
local YMCA.

JOHN L. Mossy of Lynchburg, Va., has been in the
real estate business for 47 years. He still works each
day and is president of Walker, Mosby, & Calvert
Inc.

1934

HAYDEN D. AUSTIN retired in October 1981 as legal
counsel for the U.S. Government Small Business
Administration, after 21 years of service. He and his
wife, Virginia, live in Rancho Mirage, Calif., and
enjoy the Palm Springs area.

Dr. VICTOR F. MARSHALL, retired chief urologist at
the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, is
now teaching three days a week at the University of
Virginia Medical School. He also tries his hand at
farming.

1936

Though retired as a physician, Dk. THOMAS H. AL-
PHIN of Birmingham still serves as chairman of the
Alabama Prison Medical Advisory Commission.
Recently he was appointed to a four-year term on the
Alabama Medical License Commission. He continues
also as a consultant to the University of Alabama
Birmingham Medical Center.

PAUL G. HERVEY served for several years as chair-
man of the psychology department of Del Mar College
in Corpus Christi, Texas. He has retired from his
teaching and counseling career and continues to live
in Corpus Christi.

1938

WILLIAM H. Byrn retired in 1974 as editor of the
publications of the Newport News Shipbuilding Co.
He is currently president of the Middle Peninsula
Community Concert Association and a member of
the Fishing Bay Yacht Club Race Committee. He
worked for several newspapers including the Balti-
more Sun and was commander of a destroyer squadron
during World War II. He retired from the Naval
Reserve in 1939. He lives in Cobbs Creek, Va.

JOHN E. PERRY, a prominent attorney in the firm of
Springer & Perry in Pittsburgh, Pa., was recently
appointed counsel to the firm.

BRENT REMSBURG retired as town manager of Abing-
don, Va., on Dec. 31, 1981. He served as town

manager of Abingdon for 10 years, of Herndon for 12
years, and of Vienna, Va., for one year. Between
1939 and 1958 Remsburg was with the engineering
department for the city of Martinsville, both before
and after World War II and later city manager of
South Boston. Altogether Remsburg spent over 40
years with several municipal governments, all in
the state of Virginia. In 1981 the Abingdon Rotary
Club named him a Paul Harris Fellow.

JOHN H. SHoar, though retired and living in Wood-
lands, Texas, is a representative for the government
of New Brunswick, Canada, in their Department of
Commerce and Development.

1939

HuGu P. Avery, director of Institutional Services at
the University of Houston at Clear Lake City, assumed
the presidency of the Personnel Administrators of
Texas Senior Colleges and Universities. The or-
ganization serves its membership of 51 state institu-
tions by the development of programs which contri-
bute to the professional advancement of human re-
source administration in state-supported colleges and
universities. Avery previously served as national
president of the College and University Personnel
Association.

Dr. PATRICK S. MULLINS has retired from the active
practice of medicine and lives in Morehead City on
the coast of North Carolina.

JOHN H. WARD III retired as general agent for the
state of Kentucky for Aetna Life Insurance Co. He is
among the first agents recently licensed by Kentucky
as consultants in life and health insurance. Ward has
joined his son, John H. Ward IV, ’68, and two others
to form the new Louisville firm of Helm, Creznic and
Ward Inc., insurance brokers, consultants and fi-
nancial planners. He also serves as national chairman
of the Life Underwriters Political Action Committee.

1940

LAWRENCE E. CARSON has retired after more than 40
years with Union Carbide Corp. He resides in Mont-
gomery, W.Va., and writes that he expects to continue
his travels in the U.S. and abroad.

194]

JOHN E. PERRY (See 1938.)

1942

ROBERT A. LAWTON of Central City, Kentucky, has

been appointed by the governor to the board of regents

of Murray State University.

1944

EDWIN MASON HENDRICKSON of Hagerstown, Md.,
and senior vice president of the First National Bank of
Maryland, has been named to serve on the board of
trustees of the Museum and Library of Maryland
History, Maryland Historical Society. Hendrickson

 

T. C. Frost, ’50

is a member of both the Washington County Historical
Society and the Museum of Fine Arts.

JAMES CALEB STANFIELD is a man of many interests.
Residing in Paris, Ill., he is general counsel and
board secretary of the Edgar County Bank and Trust
Co., vice president of the Nelson Title Co., and has
been a practicing attorney for 33 years. He also oper-
ates Stanfield Farms which has been in the family
since 1831.

1946

Dr. CLIFFORD SPEROW is an orthopedic surgeon in
Martinsburg, W.Va., and works largely with the
local high school and college athletes. What he terms
as ‘‘sports medicine’’ has determined Dr. Sperow’s
way of life for nearly 21 years. Unlike many ortho-
pedists who may disapprove of football, Dr. Sperow
loves the game and feels that ‘‘football is one of the
few real character builders we have left.’’ The local
high school and college coaches consider that the role
of the physician in football is not just repairing the
damage done, and they admire Sperow’s presence on
the sidelines because of his skill in diagnosis and in
evaluating the seriousness of the injury. Shepherd
College head football coach, Walter Barr, said that
‘*Dr. Sperow is very important to the success of the
football program at Shepherd College.”’

JUDGE HARRY W. WELLFORD of Memphis, Tenn.,
has been elevated from the position of district judge
for the Western District of Tennessee to the position
of circuit judge for the United States Court of Appeals
for the 6th District which covers the states of Michi-
gan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee.

1948

JAMES CALEB STANFIELD (See 1944.)

1949
B. C. ALLEN Jr. retired from the North Carolina
National Bank and is now engaged in private invest-
ment counseling. He lives in Raleigh, N.C., and isa
member of the Peace College board of visitors.

PETER D. DEBOER retired from the DuPont Company
in November 1982 after 30 years of service. He is
now in Waynesboro, Va., where he joined Industrial
Machine Works Inc. as manager of marketing and
customer services.

JOHN S. R. SCHOENFELD, formerly executive vice
president of the National Association of Security
Dealers Inc. in Washington, D.C., has now started
his own company, InterVest Ltd. The firm is a fi-
nancial consulting organization specializing in mer-
gers and acquisitions.

HAYDEN D. AUSTIN (See 1934.)

1950

THOMAS C. FROST, a trustee emeritus of Washington
and Lee University and chairman of the board and

29

 

 

 

Pat Roberston, ’50

chief executive officer of the Cullen/Frost Bankers
Inc. of San Antonio, Texas, received the 1982 W. T.
Bondurant Sr., Distinguished Humanitarian Award
from the San Antonio Academy of Texas Alumni
Association. Frost’s selection was based on his many
contributions to the San Antonio community and the
financial industry while serving as senior chairman of
the board of Frost Bank and chairman of the board of
its parent company, Cullen/Frost Bankers, Inc. Frost
currently serves on the boards of a number of com-
panies, including Southwestern Bell Telephone and
Tesoro Petroleum, and he is a director of the Bank
Holding Company Association. He is a trustee for the
McNay Art Institute, Morrison Trusts, San Antonio
Medical Foundation, Southwest Research Institute,
and Southwest Foundation for Research and Educa-
tion. Frost was named ‘‘Junior Chamber of Commerce
Outstanding Young Man’’ in 1961, ‘‘Mr. South
Texas’’ in 1974, ‘‘Outstanding Alumnus of Texas
Military Institute’’ in 1974, and ‘‘San Antonio Man
of the Year’’ in 1974.

PHILIP M. LANIER, formerly executive vice president
for law and public affairs with the Seaboard System
Railroad, will become a partner of the Louisville,
Ky., law firm of Middleton & Reutlinger effective
June 1. Lanier joined the Louisville Nashville Rail-
road, a predecessor of the Seaboard System in 1955.
He became vice president of law in 1967 and after
that became a vice president for SCL. In his work,

_ Lanier has been a significant figure in the production

of national railroad legislation.

Dr. M. G. (PAT) ROBERTSON, founder of the Christian
Broadcasting Network and host of the ‘‘700 Club’’
since 1968, is co-author with Bob Slosser of a new
book, The Secret Kingdom published by Thomas
Nelson Publishers. The book is noted on the Best
Seller List and is an ‘‘expression of the principles of
Christ as understood by Robertson.’’ Robertson is
also founder and chancellor of the Christian Broad-
casting Network University located in Virginia
Beach, Va.

1951

JOHN P. BOWEN JrR., associate editor of The Daily
Press in Newport News, Va., has been elected district
governor of district #760 of Rotary International for
1983-1984. The district encompasses 65 Rotary
Clubs.

DONALD M. FerGusson, C.L.U., a career agent
with State Mutual Life Assurance Co. in Richmond,
Va., has been awarded the new Chartered Financial
Consultant diploma and certification by The American
College at Bryn Mawr, Pa. The college specializes in
professional education in financial sciences. Fergus-
son joined State Mutual Life Assurance Co. in 1959.
He is a member of the Estate Planning Council of
Richmond and a past president of the Richmond
Association of Life Underwriters. He is also vice
president of Mutual Associates Inc., a general insur-
ance agency in Richmond.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, a past member of the W&L

30

 

   

J. F. Gallivan, ’51 T. R. Shepherd, ’52
Alumni Board of Directors and president of the
Alumni Association for 1981-82, recently became a
partner in the investment firm of J. C. Bradford &
Co. where he also serves as national sales manager.
Gallivan is a former senior vice president of the
Commerce Union Bank in Nashville, Tenn. He and
his wife, Joan, have three children and live in Nash-
ville.

Dr. CLovis SNYDER of Hagerstown, Md., is head of
the Allergy Center for the Antietam Valley. After
medical school, Dr. Snyder served in the U.S. Army.
Upon being released from military service, he worked
in the Johns Hopkins outpatient clinic studying adult
allergies under Dr. Thomas Van Metre, a past presi-
dent of the American Academy of Allergies. Snyder
took his formal allergy residency in 1964-65 in Pitts-
burgh, Pa. He returned to Hagerstown, Md., in 1965
and began practice but it was not until 1981 that he
opened the Allergy Center.

1952

CHARLES CASTNER together with classmate Tom
Harris of Fort Worth, Texas, were featured pianists at
the Louisville (Ky.) Country Club for the weekend of
February 11-12 and were billed as “‘Charlie Castner’s
‘Boogie-Woogie’ Boys.’’ The group consists of four
piano players and has performed in similar engage-
ments in St. Louis, Dallas, Lexington, Ky., and even
Toronto. Castner continues with the public relations
office of the Family Railroad System in Louisville.

Horace W. DIETRICH is currently director of office
buildings property management for C. W. Clark Inc.
in La Jolla, Calif. He holds the Certified Property
Manager (CPM) and Real Property Administrator
(RPA) designations. He is president of the San Diego
chapter of the Building Owners and Managers Asso-
ciation International and is on the board of directors
of the San Diego chapter of the Institute of Real
Estate Management. Dietrich is active in the Big
Brothers. He and his wife, Nancy, have three children
and the family lives in Rancho Bernardo, Calif.

Dr. ROBERT MASLANSKY is director of alcohol de-
toxification programs at New York University’s
Bellevue Medical Center. He is also chief consultant
for medicine at the Federal Correctional Service of
New York.

THOMAS R. SHEPHERD has been appointed president
of GTE Lighting Products. Shepherd rejoined GTE
from North American Philips Corp., where he was
president of NAP Commercial Electronics Corp. In
1981 he was senior vice president of GTE Entertain-
ment Products when that business unit was sold by
GTE to North American Philips. Shepherd originally
joined GTE in 1956 and served in a number of man-
agement positions in the entertainment products,
commercial electronics and electronic systems
groups. From 1970 to 1973 he was president of his
own management consulting company and rejoined
GTE in 1973 as business planning manager. In 1976
he was appointed vice president and general manager
of the company’s Canadian Entertainment Products

 

 

R. H. Warren,

Division and in 1978 was named to head marketing
for all GTE Entertainment Products. Shepherd lives
in Stow, Mass., where he has been active in a number
of community organizations.

1953

WILLIAM M. HOLL Is JR. expects to have a book of
poems published this fall entitled Sketches for a Mayan

Odyssey.

ROBERT H. WARREN has been appointed group vice
president in charge of construction for Ultrasystems
Engineers and Constructors Inc. in Irvine, Calif. He
joined the firm after serving as manager of projects
for Daniel International Corp. in South Carolina, a
subsidiary of Fluor Corp.

1955

WATSON A. BOwEs Jr., a native of Denver, Colo.,
and a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the
University of Colorado School of Medicine, has been
named the Upjohn Distinguished Professor of ob-
stetrics and gynecology at the University of North
Carolina School of Medicine. Bowes became a visit-
ing professor at UNC in August 1982. In addition to
his professorship at the University of Colorado School
of Medicine, Bowes also served as an associate di-
rector for the University School of Medicine for a
statewide area education centers program. He has
done extensive teaching and research in maternal and
fetal medicine with an emphasis on high-risk ob-
stetrics. He is a member of the Colorado Obstetrical
and Gynecology Society and the American Gyn-
ecological and Obstetrical Society. As the Upjohn
Distinguished Professor, Bowes will give leadership
to programs of patient care, teaching and research in
obstetrics and gynecology at UNC.

ROBERT H. INGRAM of Maplewood, N.J., is copy
supervisor and senior writer at Fitzgerald Gardner
Agency in New York City, an advertising firm.

CAPTAIN THOMAS E. LOHREY JR. is serving as circuit
military judge for the southwest circuit of the U.S.
Navy-Marine Corps Trial Judiciary in San Diego,
Calif.

1957

H. MERRILL PLAISTED III of Morton G. Thalhimer
Inc. of Richmond, Va., has been awarded the pres-
tigious designation of Industrial/Office Marketing
Specialist by the Society of Industrial Realtors at the
organization’s recent annual convention in San Fran-
cisco. One of only four persons nationwide ever so
honored, Plaisted qualified for the designation by
demonstrating exceptional knowledge, professional-
ism and experience in the marketing of office real
estate. He has been actively engaged in real estate for
nearly 20 years.

Dr. WILLIAM K. WILEMON JR. is an orthopedic sur-
geon with the Franklin Medical Group in Los An-
geles, Calif. After getting his medical degree from
Duke University’s School of Medicine in 1961, he

 

earned his master’s in science organization from the
Pepperdine University’s School of Business Admini-
stration. Dr. Wilemon did residency in orthopedic
surgery at Charlotte Memorial Hospital in Charlotte,
N.C. Among his professional associations, he is a
member of the American Academy of Neurological
Orthopaedic Surgeons, the American College of Sur-
geons, and the American Medical Association.

CAPTAIN THOMAS E. Lonrey Jr. (See 1955.)

1958

WARREN NUESSLE and two partners have formed an
executive search firm, Nuessle, Kurdziel & Weiss,
headquartered in Philadelphia, Pa.

1959

Davip C. POTEET is associate professor of history at
Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, Okla. This summer
he will become chairman of the history, humanities,
and political science department.

1960

Louis BLOODWoORTH who was in the insurance busi-
ness for 17 years has now become administrative
assistant to U.S. Rep. Jack Hightower (D-Texas). He
resides in Washington, D.C.

Dr. JOHN S. HOPEWELL of Richmond, Va., contri-
buted an article ‘‘John Garland Pollard: A Progres-
sive in the Byrd Machine’”’ in Governors of Virginia
1860-1978, edited by Edward Younger and James T.
Moore, and published by the University Press of
Virginia in September 1982.

Dr. JON McLIn is in London, England, where he is
on a two to three year assignment in the central
offices of Royal Dutch/Shell Group. McLin joined
Scallop Corporation, which is an affiliate of Royal
Dutch/Shell, in New York in 1978. He and his wife
have two children and the family lives in London.

Dr. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN is director of public
health for San Francisco, Calif. He is also vice presi-
dent of the U.S. Conference of Local Health Officers
and vice-chairperson of the California Advisory
Health Council and associate clinical professor of the
University of California School of Medicine.

1961

WALTER J. CRATER JR. is senior electronic counter-
measures project engineer at the Naval Air Systems
Command in Washington, D.C.

W. STANLEY (SANDY) PROCTOR is a full-time artist
living in Tallahassee, Fla. He and his wife have three
children.

1962

JAMES A. GwWINN Jr., C.L.U., continues in the in-
surance business in Houston, Texas. He is qualifying
for his 13th consecutive year in the Million Dollar

Roundtable as a representative of Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co.

GeorcE E. Honts II, a Fincastle, Va., attorney, has
been named the 4th Circuit Court Judge in the 25th
Judicial Circuit by the Virginia General Assembly.
Honts has been serving as a substitute judge in district
courts for more than 10 years. He expects to serve
Botetourt County and part of Rockbridge County.
The district has the highest caseload in Virginia ac-
cording to a State of Judiciary report prepared by the
Supreme Court. Honts is on the board of visitors at
Radford University; a director of Botetourt Com-
munications; on the advisory board of the Virginia
National Bank in Troutville, and chairman of Bote-
tourt’s Industrial Development Authority.

K. DOUGLAS MARTIN continues in Atlanta, Ga., with
the Allegheny International Divisions with expanded
responsibilities. Among those companies who are
reporting to Martin are Scripto Inc., Wilkison Sword
N.A., Anjr Engineering, Burnham Products, M. A.
Ferst, Eddy Match Canada, and Charles Blair Per-
fumes Paris. Martin reports that his travel schedule is
rather busy.

M. W. (BILLY) MYERS is manager of Southern Ready
Mix Inc. in Mobile, Ala.

Dick RADIS, an attorney in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
continues to serve as a director of the semiannual
Billfish Tournament Committee. Fort Lauderdale
sponsors two three-day tournaments and one two-
night swordfish tournament each year.

1963

A. JUDSON BABCOCK JR., president of T.H.A. Inc., a
construction and management firm in Waitsfield, Vt.,
participated in the February Annual Stowe-Sugarbush
Ski challenge. He won his heat and also had the
record combined time for all ‘‘veterans.’’ Babcock is
owner and operator of a ski lodge and other recrea-
tional facilities in Sugarbush Valley.

C. VANCE CAMPBELL is on the board of directors of
Network Securities Corp. He is also vice president of
St. Michaels School. He lives in Dallas, Texas.

ROBERT G. HOLLAND, an associate editor of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, recently won an award in
the American Academy of Pediatrics contest for jour-
nalism contributing to the welfare of children.

H. MICHAEL WALKER is president of Guest Quarters
Development Corp. which is headquartered in Nor-
folk, Va. The hotel chain has eight existing hotels in
Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va., Atlanta, Ga.,
Greensboro, N.C., and Houston, Texas. New devel-
opments are currently underway in Charlotte, N.C.,
Tampa, Fla., Dallas, Texas, New Orleans, La., and
southern California.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THoMas M. Brumpy IV, a
son, Henry Harding Tift, on Nov. 19, 1982. The

Class Notes

young man joins an older sister, Virginia Ann, and
the family lives in Tifton, Ga.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAY GANONG of Santa Ana,
Calif., a daughter, Meredith Clare, on Nov. 29, 1982.
Ganong is owner and operator of Goodyear Tire and
Services stores.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK of Naperville, Ill., is with the
Argonne National Laboratory, Energy and Environ-
mental Systems Division. He currently is working on
a project with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in
connection with the Mississippi River.

1965

Dr. GEORGE M. SANDERS has an independent practice
of psychology in Cherry Hill, N.J. He is a consultant
in geriatric psychology in addition to his general
office practice.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. PEGRAM JOHNSON III, a
daughter, Greer Stewart, on Dec. 9, 1982, in Char-
lotte, N.C.

BRUCE P. COOPER was promoted to vice president
and southern regional manager of McDowell Con-
tractors Inc., the heavy construction subsidiary for
McDowell Enterprises of Nashville. He lives in
Morris, Ala.

PETER M. DEMANIO is one of only 14 attorneys in the
country certified as both a Civil and a Criminal Trial
Diplomate by the National Board of Trial Advocacy.
He has been invited to join the faculty of the National
Institute of Trial Advocacy, which holds lectures
throughout the country and abroad. DeManio has his
own practice in Sarasota, Fla.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is a partner with the Birmingham
law firm of Spain, Gillon, Riley, Tate and Etheredge.
Frazier, who is very active in local historic activities,
also serves as president of the Birmingham Historical
Society, amember of the Jefferson County Historical
Commission, chairman of the City of Birmingham
Design Review Committee, president of the Forest
Park National Historic Register District Association
and a member of other related boards. He also chairs
the building fund for St. Andrews Episcopal Church.

MICHAEL E. LAWRENCE was made partner in charge
of consulting services in Tennessee and Kentucky for
Ernst and Whinney. He lives in Nashville with his
wife, Jeannie, and 9-year-old daughter, Catherine.

RANDY H. LEE has been honored with one of the
University of North Dakota’s outstanding teacher
awards. He received the Lydia and Arthur Saiki Prize
for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching
for his work as an associate professor of law at the
University.

Davip J. MATHEWSON was promoted on Dec. 1,
1982, to manager international for the Winchester

31

 

Class Notes

C. M. Berger, ’68L

Group of the Olin Corp. He is responsible for inter-
national manufacturing and marketing for Winchester
in Europe, Australia and Japan.

1967

Dr. THomas C. Davis III went to Budapest, Geneva
and the U.S.S.R. with a group of 30 Presbyterians to
meet with Russian Orthodox and Eastern and Western
European Christians to discuss a nuclear freeze and
other peacemaking issues.

WARREN E. STEWART heads his own advertising
agency, Ed Yardang and Associates in San Antonio,
Texas. The firm is a national leader in Hispanic
marketing and handles all the Spanish language ad-
vertising for the Adolph Coors Co. and Coke USA.

JAMES M. TURNER JR. has been named general chair-
man of the Roanoke Valley United Way Campaign.
Turner is vice president of J. M. Turner & Co. Inc., a
general contracting firm. He is vice chairman of the
Roanoke Civic Center Commission and vice presi-
dent of the Roanoke Valley Science Museum, the
Roanoke Valley Council of Community Services and
the Roanoke Symphony Society.

1968

NCNB Corp. promoted CHARLES M. BERGER to vice
president. He joined NCNB a year ago in the office of
corporate secretary and general counsel. Berger and
his wife, Jean, live in Charlotte, N.C.

M. Ray BRADFORD JR. is president of a group of
sports investors who own and operate the Maine
Lumberjacks professional basketball franchise in the
Continental Basketball Association. He is also a
practicing attorney in Bangor, Maine.

JOHN H. Warp IV has joined his father, John H.
Ward III, ’39, and two other men to form a new
Louisville firm, Helm, Creznic and Ward, Inc., in-
surance brokers, consultants and financial planners.
Ward is in the first group of agents recently licensed
by Kentucky as consultants in life and health insur-
ance. He is also among the first group designated as
Chartered Financial Consultants (ChFC) by the
American College of Insurance. Ward is a captain in
the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the U.S.
Army Reserves. He and his wife have two sons, ages
5 and 6.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT E. PRICE, a daughter,
Mahala Elizabeth, on Jan. 18, 1983, in Houston.
Price is an attorney in a general partnership.

JAMES M. CHANCE is a computer programmer for
Bucknell University.

RICHARD E. KRAMER will pursue a Ph.D. in per-
formance studies at New York University. He is now
directing a revival of Bell, Book and Candle for the
Attic Ensemble of Jersey City. Kirk Woodward, ’69,
is also a member of that company.

32

R. H. Yevich, ’70

1970

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. LAURENCE HILLIARD, a son,
Andrew Laurence, on Sept. 2, 1982. The young man
joins an older sister and the family lives in Hatties-
burg, Miss.

G. WHITNEY KEMPER is an attorney and land de-
veloper in Homer, Alaska. He was a criminal attorney
in Nashville from 1973-79. Kemper owned and man-
aged a coffee plantation in Jamaica from 1979 to
1982 before moving to Alaska with his wife and 2-
year-old daughter.

On Jan. 1, 1982, TimoTHy J. MURPHY became a
partner in the Miami law firm of Shutts and Bowen.
He was elected to the Florida House of Representa-
tives on Nov. 2, 1982.

MICHAEL C. G. NEER completed his seventh season
as head basketball coach at the University of Roches-
ter by taking his team to the NCAA Division III
regional finals.

ROBERT H. YEVICH is manager of the McLean, Va.,
office of Paine, Webber, Jackson and Curtis Inc.
where he heads a staff of 24 investment executives
and also oversees a satellite office in Leesburg, Va.
Yevich is a vice president and comes to McLean from
the firm’s headquarters in New York where he worked
in branch administration under the president. He, his
wife and two children live in Annandale.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND II of
Spartanburg, S.C., a son, Cameron Maxwell, on

Nov. 20, 1982. The Clevelands now have two sons.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. JACcoBs, twin
daughters, Marjorie and Celia, on Dec. 8, 1982. The
twins join an older sister Poppy. Dr. Jacobs is a
pediatrician and his wife, the former Sherri Rose, is a
pediatric nurse practitioner. They both practice in
Roanoke, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT, a
son, Bradfield Denman, on Dec. 19, 1982, in Hous-
ton. Wright is an attorney and is serving his fourth
term in the Texas House of Representatives.

NELSON F. BRINCKERHOFF is in law practice in East
Greenwich, R.I., in association with the firm of
D’Ellena, Sgroi, Vitullo & Brinckerhoff.

G. CARR GARNETT is costume designer for the new
ABC soap opera Loving, which goes on the air in
June.

Dr. HuGH F. HILt II is director of the emergency
medicine department at Washington County Hospital
in Hagerstown, Md. His wife, Sandy, practices der-
matology in Washington, D.C. They live in Silver
Spring, Md.

WALTON M. JEFFRESS JR. has been promoted to lieu-
tenant colonel, Judge Advocate General’s Corps.,

 

U.S. Army. He is assigned to the Pentagon.

ROBERT R. JENSEN directed The Night Thoreau Spent
in Jail, which toured southern California area colleges
and high schools. He has also done design work for
Anything Goes and Much Ado About Nothing. Jensen
teaches, directs and designs theatrical productions at
California State University at Fullerton.

REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE was named one of the 1982
‘*Outstanding Young Men of the Year’’ for the Rich-
mond area.

Ho.iis C. TaGGART opened a fine art gallery, the
Taggart and Jorgensen Gallery, in the Georgetown
section of Washington, D.C., in May 1983. The
gallery specializes in 19th and early 20th century
American paintings and French impressionist paint-
ings.

JAMES M. TURNER JR. (See 1967.)

1972
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. J. PAYNE HINDSLEY, a daugh-
ter, Elinor Payne, on Jan. 5, 1983, in Baltimore, Md.
Hindsley is an account executive with Riggs, Coun-
cilman, Michaels and Downes.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWSON H. MARSHALL, a
son, John Paul, on Dec. 12, 1982, in Lynchburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. O’NEAL, a son,
Vaughan Preston, on May 27, 1982. The family lives
in South Bend, Ind.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, a
daughter, Anna Kathleen, on Aug. 22, 1982. Robin-
son is an attorney in Tampa, Fla.

1973
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JAMES F. BARTER, a son,
James Francis Jr., on Dec. 27, 1982, in Durham,
N.C. Barter will begin a fellowship at the University
of Alabama Medical Center in June 1983.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ELLis L. GUTSHALL, a son,
Coleman Allen, on March 8, 1982, in Roanoke.
Gutshall was promoted to senior vice president at
First Virginia Bank in Roanoke, where he is head of
the commercial lending division with supervisory
responsibilities for new business development and
commercial credit analysis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PAUL K. MCCLURE, a son,
Paul K. Jr., on Aug. 2, 1982. McClure is vice presi-
dent of sales for Kemmons Wilson Real Estate
Securities Inc. of Memphis.

JOHN C. Dovet earned his Ph.D. in clinical child
psychology from the University of Virginia, com-
pleted the internship requirement and passed the New
Jersey state licensing examinations. He is director of
psychological assessment for the Children’s Psy-
chiatric Center of Monmouth County, N.J. He also
maintains a private practice in the area.

a) a a i

 

   

D. M. Rhodes, ’73

JERRY HENDRICK JR. is a partner in the law firm of
Gordon, Dodson & Hendrick in Chesterfield Court-
house, Va. He and his wife, Julie, have two sons.

DALE M. RuHopgs has been made assistant vice presi-
dent in the accounting department of The Citizens
and Southern National Bank of South Carolina. He
joined the bank in 1980 as a management associate
and later an accounting officer. Rhodes is also aide-
de-camp to the commanding general of the 120th/
U.S. Army Reserve Command at Ft. Jackson and a
lecturer in statistics at the University of South Caro-
lina. He, his wife, Sandra, and daughter, Cecily, live
in Columbia, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY D. BURKE, a son,
Jeffrey Cabell, on Dec. 2, 1982, in Richmond. Burke
is an audit manager for Price Waterhouse.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS C. CHASE, a son,
Ryan Douglas, on March 3, 1983. Chase is sports
announcer for WREL radio in Lexington.

Effective Jan. 1, 1983, SEAN P. M. GILRONAN was
elected vice president international at ESCO Portland
Corp., headquartered in Portland, Ore. He joined
ESCO in 1974 and was corporate counsel prior to his
promotion. Gilronan’s responsibilities include service
on the boards of ESCO’s European subsidiaries in
England, France and Belguim. He lives in Beaverton,
Ore., with his wife Debbie and children, Shannon
and Rian.

ROBERT E. JOHNSON moved to St. Louis to work as
manager of financial analysis at the corporate head-
quarters of General Dynamics Corp. He had been
manager of business planning for Cleveland Pneu-
matic Co.

1975
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davin H. SLATER, a daughter,
Jill Elizabeth, on Sept. 24, 1982, in Metairie, La.
Slater is assigned to the Arkoma Basin in Arkansas as
a geologist for Mobil Oil in New Orleans.

BIRTH: CAPTAIN and Mrs. KIM STENSON, a daugh-
ter, Lindsey Anne, on June 22, 1982, in Columbia,
S.C. Stenson is a battalion executive officer at Fort
Jackson, S.C.

J. BARCLAY ARMSTRONG II is working for an inde-
pendent oil company, Petrus Operating Co., in
Dallas, Texas. He has obtained his license as an
instructor pilot and also enjoys playing classical guitar
and handball.

Dr. KENNETH M. FAUTEUx has an orthodontics
practice in Fairfax, Va.

WILLIAM H. STURGES is an associate with the Char-
lotte, N.C., law firm of Weinstein, Sturges, Odom,
Grever, Bigger, Jonas and Campbell. In the August

S. P.M. Gilronan, ’74L

  

1982 edition of the Wake Forest Law Review he had
an article on the law of default judgments in North
Carolina.

THOMAS R. SUYDAM is a management analyst on the
staff of the assistant commissioner for computer serv-
ices with the Internal Revenue Service in Washington,
D.C. He lives in Arlington, Va., and is an active
member of St. Augustine’s Episcopal Church. He
also participates in community theater and performed
with the Capitol Hill Arts Workshop in productions of
Damn Yankees, Biography and The Bald Soprano.

JOEL A. WILLIAMS completed a four year Army tour
with the JAG Corps and is now an associate with the
Birmingham law firm of Sadler, Sullivan, Sharp and
Stutts. His specialty is civil litigation.

1976
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. DrRiscoL_t III, a
son, William Thomas IV, on Dec. 19, 1982, in Nor-
folk, Va. Driscoll is the purchasing agent for Virginia-
Carolina Electric Sales in Norfolk, a wholesale elec-
trical distributor.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MALCOLM R. HASTINGS, a
son, Patrick Malcolm, on Nov. 11, 1982. Hastings,
recently relieved as battery commander at the U.S.
Army Base in Fort Sill, Okla., became director of
purchases for American Healthcare Enterprises Inc.
in Atlanta, Ga., effective April 1983. He was honored
by the United States Jaycees as one of the ‘‘Outstand-
ing Young Men in America.”’

ROBERT L. AMSLER is a management trainee in the
International Department of Dominion Bankshares
Corp. in Roanoke, Va. He expects to move to northern
Virginia in August to head the department’s regional
office.

R. STEWART BARROLL has formed a partnership of
Hoon and Barroll for the practice of law in Chester-
town, Md.

WILLIAM L. Cooper III is president of Cooper Wood
Products, a supplier of solid wood furniture parts. He
and his wife, Robin, live in Rocky Mount, Va.

J. KIMBLE RATLIFF JR. heads the income property
department of Collateral Investment Co., mortgage
bankers with offices in 11 southeastern states. He is at
the company’s headquarters in Birmingham.

The works of STEVEN K. ROBERTS are included in the
premiere exhibition of the Art Justice League at
Richard’s Pier 20 Restaurant in Washington, D.C.

1977

PHILLIP J. ENRICO JR. is in his first year of a five-year
seminary program leading to ordination as a Roman
Catholic priest. Last summer he worked with the
Christ House, an emergency shelter for the poor in
the Diocese of Arlington, Va.

BRADLEY J. FRETZ earned an M.B.A. in finance

from the Wharton School of the University of Penn-
sylvania. He works as a consultant for Johnson and
Higgins in New York. Fretz and his wife live in
Guttenberg, N.J.

T. NICHOLAS GILL, an associate broker for H. A.
Gill & Son Realtors in Washington, D.C., has recently
been admitted into the District of Columbia Bar.

STEPHEN D. Goop is an associate with the Dallas law
firm of Hughes and Hill. His specialty is tax law.

On Jan. 1, 1983, MARK E. HOFFMAN became a partner
in the Birmingham law firm of Fulford, Pope, Natter,
Donovan and Mullins. He specializes in venture
capital and closely held corporations.

ROBERT F. JUNGMAN is a tax attorney in the Houston
office for the law firm of Foreman and Dyess.

JAMES E. KOcHu has returned from Korea where he
was project officer for the U.S. Army Facilities En-
gineer Activity. While there he received a Meritorious
Service Medal. He is currently attending Stanford
University in pursuit of a M.S. degree in civil engi-
neering. After school, Koch expects to resume Army
duty with the U.S. Corps of Engineers.

JAMES U. SCOTT is now in his second year of pediatric
residency at Case Western Hospital in Cleveland. He
received his M.D. degree from Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity in 1981.

STUART W. SERENBETZ is assigned to the Northeast
region office in New York of Turner Development
Corp., the real estate development subsidiary of
Turner Construction Co. He previously worked for
Turner Construction.

SAMUEL E. THOMPSON is an account executive with
Citicorp in the mortgage lending division. He lives in
Marietta, Ga.

FRANK K. TURNER JR. is a commercial lending officer
with the Mercantile Safe-Deposit and Trust Co. in
Baltimore, Md. He graduated from the University of
Baltimore Law School evening division in December
1982 and plans to take the Maryland bar exam.

1978
MARRIAGE: BriAN P. CARROLL and Wendy Hamp-
ton on June 12, 1982, in New York. In attendance
were Dale B. Marden, ’75, Edward A. Dougherty,
°79, D. Marshall Jemison, ’78, J. Fraser Humphreys
Ill, °79, Richard W. Stewart, ’78, A. Greer Barriault,
78, and William A. Noell Jr., ’64.

MARRIAGE: Mark W. HAMPTON and Carrie
O’Rourke on Sept. 5, 1981, in St. Joseph, Mo.
Hampton is a captain in the U.S. Army Signal Corps.
He completed a four-year assignment in Germany
and now attends the Signal Advanced Course at Ft.
Gordon, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. JOHN May III, a son,
Arthur John IV, on Feb. 27, 1983, in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

33

 

 

 

 

 

ture Galleries and S. & M. Farms Inc. in Mont-
gomery, Ala.

BIRTH: Lr. and Mrs. MICHAEL J. Mr ik II, a
daughter, Caroline Lizal, on Dec. 20, 1982, in
Hampton, Va. Mrlik is the assistant S-3 officer for
the 6th Transportation Battalion at Ft. Eustis, Va. He
recently returned from Brim Frost ’83, a joint readi-
ness exercise in Alaska. Mrlik and his wife, the
former Catherine Ann Reynolds of Charleston, S.C.,
live in Newport News, Va.

ROBERT W. PEARCE JR. is in the third year of a four
year combined law and M.B.A. program at the Uni-
versity of South Carolina. He works part time in real
estate and will work in a securities regulation job in
the summer.

JESSE M. SHAVER III earned his M.B.A. from the
University of Chicago and joined General Electric
Co. He is in the consumer products sector marketing
program and works with the world integration/inter-
national services component of the housewares and
audio business division. He lives in Milford, Conn.

ROBERT C. SILLMAN earned his M.B.A. from James
Madison University in December 1982. He is
assistant controller at Wayne County Memorial Hos-
pital in Goldsboro, N.C. He lives in nearby Wilson.

1981
MARRIAGE: EDWARD ROBERT Foy and Robin Hines
on June 26, 1982. The wedding guests included
classmates Nick Brady, Holms Ginn, Tom Griffin,
John Helms, and Kevin McClernon. Foy is president
of American Audio Distributors Inc. in Montgomery,
Ala., a specialty audio-video retailing company.

BIRTH: Ciara S. SMITH and her husband, MICHAEL
B. HUBBARD, ’76, ’79L, a daughter, Megan Eliza-
beth, on Jan. 19, 1983, in Douglas, Wyo.

MARSHALL CLARK of Memphis, Tenn., is an account
executive with Data Communication Corp., a soft-
ware vendor for the broadcast and cable industries.

DANIEL R. COLLOPY is assistant commonwealth’s
attorney for Wise County and the city of Norton, Va.,
and is city prosecutor for Norton.

VINCENT COVIELLO was promoted to first lieutenant
and operations officer of the 532D/Signal Company,
U.S. Army in Giessen, West Germany.

MALINDA E. DUNN, captain in the U.S. Army JAG
Corps, is assigned to the 82nd Airborne Division at
Ft. Bragg, N.C. She is on jump status and has seven
parachute jumps to her credit.

PETER D. ELIADES was selected to the national moot
court team at the T. C. Williams School of Law at the
University of Richmond. He was also elected presi-
dent of the Student Bar Association, succeeding
Richard S. Wallerstein Jr., ’80.

SAMUEL A. FLax is an associate in the Washington

law offices of Morgan, Lewis and Bockius. He com-
pleted a judicial clerkship with the Honorable H.
Emory Widener Jr., ’53L, of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 4th Circuit.

JOHN J. Fox III was promoted to first lieutenant in
November 1982. He is an army helicopter pilot in the
501st/Combat Aviation Battalion in Ansbach, West
Germany. He serves as a flight section leader and
spends much of his free time skiing in the Austrian
Alps.

GERRALD A. GIBLIN JR. is working for the business
machines group of Burroughs Corp. in McLean, Va.
He lives in Alexandria.

NICHOLAS HANTZES is a Staff attorney with the
American Bar Association in Washington, D.C.

Marvin E. Opum III is an engineer for Shell Oil Co.
in New Orleans, La.

SAMUEL P. PRICE JR. practices law with the firm of
Price, Miller, Evans and Flowers in Jamestown, N.Y.

G. Scott RAYSON is an associate with the law firm of
Waller Lansden Dortch and Davis in Nashville.

JoEL E. SEGALL is a second-year law student at the
Georgetown University Law Center.

ROSCOE B. STEPHENSON III, a Covington, Va., attor-
ney, has been named to the advisory board of the
Covington office of First National Exchange Bank.
He also is secretary-treasurer and a director of Bolar
Draft Land and Timber Co.

EDWARD T. TAYLOR II has been promoted to the
position of area sales manager of Prince Georges
County, Maryland, for Storer Communications Inc.

DAWN E. WARFIELD is a per curiam clerk writing
opinions for the West Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals in Charleston. Her supervisor since Sep-
tember 1981 is Justice Richard Neely, author of How
Courts Govern America.

1982

MaRK P. ANGELIDES will complete his M.B.A. in
management at Iona College in June as a Dean’s
Honor List student.

RICHARD L. BuRGER is in the LL.M. program in
taxation at Emory University School of Law. He has
passed the District of Columbia Bar exam.

J. PRESTON COVINGTON III is currently working at
Bankers Trust of South Carolina in Columbia.

EARLE SHERMAN GREENE JR. is attending the Army
Signal Officer Basic Course at Ft. Gordon, Ga. He
expects permanent assignment to the 32nd Signal
Battalion, Headquarters Company, near Frankfurt,
Germany.

KAZUHIRO HAZAMA, a special exchange student in

the 1980-81 school year from Rikkyo University,
works in the coal department for the Sumitomo Corp.
in Tokyo.

GEORGE C. INGRAM IV graduated with a bachelor’s
degree in political science from Emory University.
He is starting his own business.

GLEN F. KOONTZ is a marketing executive in the
Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Transport Insurance
Co. of Dallas. He lives in Martinsville, Va.

KENNETH A. LANG is employed in the training pro-
gram at Bankers Trust Co. in New York.

ALEXANDER W. MCALISTER is an investment repre-
sentative in the funds management department of
North Carolina National Bank in Charlotte.

JOHN MONROE, formerly of New Orleans, La., is in
New York City where he is working in the corporate
finance division of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.

KELLY J. NIERNBERGER, a second lieutenant in the
U.S. Army Field Artillery, is studying Turkish at the
Defense Language Institute in Monterey, Calif. On
Jan. 6, 1984, he will report for a one-year tour of duty
in Turkey.

H. CHRISTOPHER PEACOCK is a Staff writer for the
Augusta Chronicle in Augusta, Ga. Working with
him are John Sorrells, ’74, and David Lotts, ’74.

G. Eric PLuM is studying biochemistry at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

MICHAEL J. PRESSLER is the lacrosse coach for the
Virginia Military Institute in their first season of
varsity play.

HENRY F. SATTLETHIGHT will enter active duty with
the U.S. Air Force this summer. He will go to Mon-
terey, Calif., for school and training.

DouG Las G. SHELDON is a credit analyst for Republic
Bank in Dallas.

JAMES L. SHEPHERD will enter law school in Houston
in the fall of 1983.

GLENN C. WILMaAR is working on his M.S. degree in
geological science at the University of Texas at El
Paso.

 

In Memoriam

 

1917

REV. GEORGE RAYMOND WOMELDORF, a native of
Rockbridge County, Va., and a former missionary to
China, died Jan. 24, 1983, in Harrisonburg, Va.
After graduation from W&L, Womeldorf served from
1917 to 1919 with the Washington and Lee Ambu-

35

 

 

In Memoriam

lance Corps which was attached to the French Army
during World War I. Womeldorf was awarded the
Croix de Guerre by the French government and the
Purple Heart. After the war he completed studies for
the ministry at Union Theological Seminary in Rich-
mond, Va. His home church was the Lexington Pres-
byterian Church. He and his wife went to China in
1923 and remained there until the war with Japan
forced their return to the United States in 1938. He
accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where he served until 1946
when he accepted a position with the Presbyterian
Board of World Missions. In 1950 Womeldorf became
an assistant pastor at the First Presbyterian Church in
Winchester, Va., and in 1956 was named associate
pastor of the church. He retired in 1968 and was
elected minister emeritus of the Winchester church.

1920

EDMOND SALDE CREDLE, JR., who was a retired

manager of the Eastern Acceptance Corp., a com-

mercial banking firm, died Jan. 13, 1983, in Pantego,
N.C.

1923

DEWITT SINCLAIR, who for many years was superin-
tendent of the Florida State Prison in Raiford, Fla.,
died March 11, 1983 in Moultrie, Ga.

1925

MAURICE CUSTIS LANGHORNE, a native of Smith-
field, Va., died Jan. 31, 1983, in Atlanta, Ga. He was
a former chairman of the psychology department at
Emory University, having been on the staff for 33
years. He had previously retired as chairman of the
psychology department at Trinity College in Hartford,
Conn. Langhorne was a co-founder and first president
of the New England Psychology Association while in
Hartford and served as president of the Southeastern
Psychology Association at Emory. He was an active
volunteer and lecturer for the Atlanta chapter of the
American Cancer Society.

1928

GEORGE EDWARD WAINSCOTT, who was a retired
president of the Commerce Acceptance Co. Inc., at
Atchison, Kans., died in Naples, Fla., Dec. 29, 1982.
Wainscott, who had previously been with General
Motors Acceptance Corp. became associated with
the Commerce Acceptance Co. Inc. in 1933. The
firm was engaged in the finance and insurance busi-
ness as well as commercial banking. At one time
Wainscott was a director of the American Finance
Conference in Washington, D.C., and was a director
and past president of the American Industrial Bankers
Association. He also was a past director of the
Atchison Hospital Association and a past trustee of
the National Installment School of Banking in Bould-
er, Colo.

1930

FRED LEE GLAIZE JR., a partner of Glaize and Broth-

36

ers in Winchester, Va., died in June 1982. The firm
handled lumber and building supplies, apple produc-
tion, and real estate. Glaize was a former president of
the Shenandoah College board of trustees.

1931
DAVID NEWELL CONN JR., a distinguished attorney
of Sparta, Ill., died Dec. 9, 1982. In October 1982,
Conn was honored by members of the Randolph
County Bar Association for more than 40 years of
meritorious service to his community and his pro-
fession. After graduating from W&L, Conn received
his J.D. degree from Washington University in St.
Louis. Conn began the practice of law in Alton, II1.,
as an associate in the firm of Streeper and Brown. He
moved to Sparta, Ill., in 1935 where he practiced law
for more than 43 years. In 1945 Conn and Edward W.
Clendenin formed their own law firm. For many
years, Conn was the city attorney for Sparta, state’s
attorney for Randolph County from 1940 to 1948,
and for more than 25 years was the Illinois counsel for

Southwestern Illinois Coal Co. , Spartan Printing Co.

and World Color Press, general counsel for the Sparta
Community Hospital district and for a few years was
local counsel for the Illinois Power Co. He was also
counsel for Ziegler Coal Co., Mofat Coal Co.,
Northwestern Illinois Coal Co. and Winisle Coal Co.
of West Virginia. Conn retired in July 1978. Conn
was a 32nd Degree Mason and Shriner and an Elder
of the Westminster Presbyterian Church. For more
than 50 years, he was an amateur archaeologist and
collector of Indian artifacts. During that period of
time, he accumulated an outstanding collection of
American Indian artifacts which he donated to the
Brown Memorial Museum in 1976.

CARL JAMES KINSEY, a former self-employed oil and
gas drilling contractor, died Dec. 10, 1982. At the
time of his death he resided in Newark, Ohio.

1932

LLOYD HEMINGWAY RICHMOND, a retired executive
of Marshall Field & Co. and a former administrative
assistant to the late FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover,
died Jan. 19, 1983, in Sarasota, Fla., where he had
lived in retirement since 1977. Before moving to
Florida he was a long-time resident of the North
Shore suburbs in Chicago. Richmond retired from
Field’s as executive vice president of the personnel
and labor division in 1969 after 25 years with the
firm. He joined Field’s in 1944 and was appointed
vice president in 1953. In 1943 and 1944 Richmond
was associate personnel director of the Metallurgical
Laboratory at the University of Chicago. Prior to his
association with the university, Richmond spent seven
years with the FBI as an administrative assistant to
Hoover. He was former director of the Chicago Crime
Commission and served on the board of directors of
Junior Achievement in Chicago.

1933

Cot. PAUL M. MCILVAINE, retired chief of graphic

arts with the Veterans Administration and retired
officer in the Air Force Reserves, died in Henderson-
ville, N.C., on Feb. 1, 1983. He was a member of the
Hendersonville Kiwanis Club and a frequent contri-
butor to the Asheville Citizen-Times. McIlvaine had a
book of his cartoons published in 1964. He retired to
Hendersonville from Washington in 1969.

1934

JOHN A. HANLEY III, a prominent St. Petersburg,
Fla., attorney who was former area chief for the FBI,
died Jan. 29, 1983, in St. Petersburg. Hanley joined
the FBI in 1940 and was assigned as senior resident in
charge of the St. Petersburg office in 1946. He re-
signed from the FBI in 1954 to open his own law
practice. While at W&L, Hanley played football at
offensive and defensive end for three years. He made
the All-State team two years and in his senior year
was named to the All-Southern team. While in law
school at George Washington University, Hanley
worked as a law clerk in the general counsel’s office
of the Federal Works Agency. He joined the agency
as a junior attorney after his graduation from law
school and worked there until he joined the FBI.
Hanley was elected president of the Suncoast Chapter
of the Society of Former Special Agents of the FBI in
1960. He was a former senior warden of the St.
Peter’s Episcopal Cathedral, a member of the St.
Petersburg, Florida, and American Bar Associations,
the Association of Trial Lawyers of America and the
American Judicature Society.

194]

THEODORE RICHARD SNYDER, who for many years
was employed by the DuPont Co. in advertising, died
Feb. 16, 1983. At the time of his death he resided in
Hillsdale, N.J. During World War II he served with
the U.S. Marine Corps in the South Pacific Theatre

1948

REV. JACK GODFREY Murray, rector of Christ Epis-
copal Church in Nacogdoches, Texas, died Nov. 21,
1982. Murray had served with the United States Air
Force and retired in August 1969.

1950

EDWARD PHILIP THOMAS Jr., minority leader of the
Maryland Senate, died March 1, 1983. A Republican,
he was serving his fourth term, representing Frederick
and Washington Counties. He was first elected in
1971 and had long been active in politics. He managed
Richard Nixon’s campaign in Maryland in 1972, was
chairman of the state Republican party in 1973 and
1974, and was a Maryland delegate to four Republican
national conventions. Thomas joined the staff of the
Roanoke Times in 1950 and returned to the newspaper
after service in Korea and in Germany with the Army.
He later was assistant news director and sports director
for WSLS-TV and Radio in Roanoke. He returned to
Frederick in 1960 and became president of Terrace
Lanes, Inc., a bowling center, a position he held until
his death.

i i ee i

 

 

 

The steeple of Lee Chapel is reflected in the Washing-
ton and Lee Mirror with Ahern hand-tinted print
matted at the top. The mirror is available with frame
finished in French gold or Colonial cherry.

Now available .. .

Panoramic Prints
Of the Front Campus
Of Washington and Lee

A sweeping, delicately rendered view of Washington
and Lee’s historic Front Campus, drawn by artist Rich
Ahern, is available in hand-tinted full color or in black
and white and in two sizes. It is also available com-
bined with a handsome mirror with frame finished in
French gold or Colonial cherry. These prints and the
mirror will complement both traditional and con-
temporary homes. Shipped by U.P.S.

MIRROR—Outside measurements 15 by 2414,
(mirror itself 14 by 174), frame in French
gold or Colonial cherry, hand-tinted print
Miatied 40 tie top ............................. $125.00
(Add $12.50 for shipping)
SMALL PRINT—Outside measurements
17 by 8 Hand-tinted Color—double

matted and shrink wrapped ................$ 29.75
COOP Mmt only ............cccccccseebeees-o DESO
Piggmean WOKE ............cc0000cs ioe SO

(Add $3.00 for shipping)

LARGE PRINT—Outside measurements 27% by 1034
Hand-tinted Color—double matted and

Siimmik wrapped .....0.. 60.060)...
Color Print only ......::.....2.000c4
Black and White ...................0.:00 on

(Add $3.00 for shipping)
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.
Make checks payable to the Washington and Lee Bookstore.

Send your order to:

The Bookstore
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

N
o }
1
gxOC
a
Oe =
bo .6 7H
SB bp 8
aES
o>
aw”
ZEE
=H
Yes
TO
eax
Sav

=
Oo
Nae

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

>
S
s
’
8
QO
8
=
es
soe
Sirs
CS 4g
3s NG
RSS

ia 24450

irginia

Lexington, V

 

 

 

 

 

 

ce
SS
SES

eee

 

 

 
 
 

  
 

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

