 
  
  
     
      

The Alumni Magazine =. °

of Washington and Lee. ™

April !1990

    

Riv rh " , x4 ™ : Ls * teas ox Eee i i
~ oe > cv _ nll. ~ ee ne ty ‘4
¥ arte oe Pes ip cea
Snead ot aie oy a
aie: 1s ada ee f
4d eG ee a a

i

  

Beet pA

<=)
~~]

~
ae a
«

 

 

Last summer John McDaniel, ’64, led a small group of his W&L
anthropology students on an unusual field trip—all the way to Idaho.

For two months, the students performed archaeological work and
research in the Targhee National Forest. They were able to put what
they had learned in the classroom into practice. They also had the
chance to travel in that beautiful and scenic part of the country, to
hike in the Tetons and fish in Yellowstone. And for all this, they were
paid room and board by the National Forest Service and received a
stipend from the University’s Leyburn Scholars Program in An-
thropology. McDaniel said of the excursion, ‘‘I had not encountered
as attractive a summer opportunity while in graduate school.”’

This issue of W&L describes some of the extraordinary oppor-
tunities that Washington and Lee does afford its students. First of
all, there is McDaniel’s account of his trip ‘‘West to Lone Pine,
Idaho.’’ We also bring the exciting news of the decision by Justice
Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, ’31L, to give his personal and professional
papers to the University. This collection will prove to be an invaluable
resource for legal and historical scholars, and the addition in which
it will be housed will provide much-needed space for the School of Law.

Pages 10 through 13 contain a photographic essay taken from an
exhibit in duPont Hall last autumn. This was not just any exhibit,
mind you—the photographers were both Washington and Lee
graduates, Charles Mason, ’84, and Patrick Hinely, ’73. Their im-
ages remind us all of the importance of the visual and performing arts
at this University—an importance which is sure to increase when the
Lenfest Center is completed in the fall.

Finally, we are pleased to include in this issue the text of an ad-
dress given last fall by Washington Post columnist Ed Yoder. Mr.
Yoder visited the campus to inaugurate the Class of 1963 Scholar-in-
Residence Program, which was established on the occasion of the
class’s 25th reunion to bring distinguished speakers to the campus.
His topic is ‘‘Burning the Flag for Pleasure and Politics’’>—an examina-
tion of the Supreme Court’s recent controversial decision.

Whether they are discussing freedom of speech in Northen
Auditorium or backpacking in Wyoming, Washington and Lee
students enjoy educational opportunities that simply aren’t available
to undergraduates everywhere. It’s significant that all four of the pro-
grams featured in this issue involve alumni—students of the past who
care about what happens to the students of today. Our motto, after
all, is ‘Non incautus futuri,’’ and it’s a sure bet that these programs
will enrich the lives of future generations, as well.

—A.B.C.
COLLET RI er RR ee eae Ce

ANNE COULLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

ELIZABETH Parkins, Class Notes
Editor

Patrick HInELy, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

Officers of the University

JouHn D. Witson, President
Brian D. SHaw, Director of
Communications

Communications Advisory Board

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55
JaMEs J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
ANDREW H. McCuTCHEON, 48
ROBERT MOTTLEY, ’64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN
FRANK A. PARSONS, ’54
MATTHEW W. PAxTON, ’49
CHARLES S. Rowe, *45
SARAH K. WIANT, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JouHN D. KLINEDmnst, ’71, ’78L,
President

JOHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72, Vice
President

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs

JAMES D. FARRAR JrR., ’74, Associate
Secretary

Directors

BENJAMIN L. Barley, ’75

WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61

JOHN A. COCKLEREECE JrR., ’76, ’79L
JaMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
WALLER T. DupDLeEy, ’74, ’79L

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Ciay T. JACKSON, ’76

RoBerT D. LARugE, ’72

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., 61, ’63L
MICHAEL G. MORGAN, ’68

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
EUGENE C. PERRY Jr., ’75, ’78L
JOHN W. ROBINSON IV, ’72

WILLIAM E. SMITH Jr., 63

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79

MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L
RICHARD R. WARREN, ’57

 

On the cover

Five Washington and Lee under-
graduates stand near an excavation
site during an extended archaeology
field trip to Idaho last summer. A
story about the experience begins on
page 5. Photo by John M. McDaniel

 

 

 

 

 

NMIVERN |

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 65, Number 1, April 1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Powell to Give W&L His Collection of Papers 2
West to Lone Pine, Idaho 5
Photographs by Mason and Hinely 10
Burning the Flag for Pleasure and Politics 14
The Generals’ Report 20
The W&L Winter Gazette 21
Class Notes 40
In Memoriam 51
And Furthermore 54

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the generosity of Mary

Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in September, December, April, and June by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third-
class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214. Signed articles reflect the views of their

authors and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or the University.

 

 

 

 

Powell to Give W&L
His Collection of Papers

 

 

 

 

Retired U.S. Supreme Court The collection spans Powell’s
Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, ’31L, career on the Supreme Court and his
announced in December that he in- tenures as chairman of the Richmond
tends to leave his personal and profes- School Board and president of the
sional papers to Washington and Lee. American Bar Association.

 

W&L

 

 

The documents will be housed in
a new addition to Lewis Hall, the
home of W&L’s School of Law
which is named for Frances and
Sydney Lewis, ’40, ’43L. Construc-
tion on the addition will begin in
early June and is due to be completed
in 20 to 22 months. Portions of
Powell’s papers now located in
Washington, D.C., Charlottesville,
and Richmond will be moved to
Washington and Lee.

‘‘The papers of most justices of
the Supreme Court have been left to
the Library of Congress,’’ Powell
said in announcing the gift. ‘‘My in-
tention to leave my papers to the law
school at Washington and Lee is bas-
ed primarily on the plans, approved
by the Board of Trustees, to add an
addition to the law school building
that will house my papers and pro-
vide facilities for appropriate
research. Also, my six years on the
campus were among the happiest of
my life. I have a deep and abiding af-

fection for the college that bears the
names of George Washington and
Robert E. Lee.’’

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of the
School of Law, said, ‘‘Justice
Powell’s service on the Supreme
Court spanned a particularly crucial
period in the court’s history, and his
influence was widely felt as a key
figure during that period. His
Supreme Court papers and his other
papers comprise a rich and unique
resource for scholars and students of
the Supreme Court and of American
judicial and political history. This
collection will attract students and
scholars from other institutions,
thereby contributing immeasurably
to the richness of the University’s
academic life.’’

Powell was appointed to the
Supreme Court in 1971 by President
Richard M. Nixon. He served until
his resignation in 1987. During his
tenure on the court, he cast decisive
votes in many 5-4 decisions on such

issues as the death penalty, affir-
mative action, freedom of expres-
sion, abortion, and separation of
church and state.

‘*Justice Powell was at the center
of the national stage at a time of pro-
found political, societal, and
jurisprudential upheaval,’’ Bezanson
said. ‘‘By the force of his intellect, his
character, and his experience, Justice
Powell exerted a deep and lasting in-
fluence on this nation and its laws
and institutions.”’

Powell served as chairman of the
Richmond Public School Board from
1951 to 1961, an era marked by divi-
sion concerning desegregation. He
also belonged to a special commission
that wrote a new charter for the city
of Richmond in 1947-48. He was
elected president of the American Bar
Association in 1964.

During his years at Washington
and Lee, Powell was president of the
student body and contributed to the
Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx. He was

 

 

 

This drawing of the exterior of Lewis Hall shows
the new addition, at left, that will house the
Powell papers.

 

 

 

 

W&L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

These drawings show the proposed office space for Powell (above)
and the entrance to the office suite (below).

 

ee

 

  

8 we
‘

  

 

 

elected to the honorary fraternities of
Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta
Kappa and received the Algernon
Sydney Sullivan Award, given by the
faculty to the student ‘‘who excels in
high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others.”’

Powell was a member of Wash-
ington and Lee’s Board of Trustees
from 1961 to 1978. He received an
honorary doctor of laws degree from
the University in 1960.

Last spring, Powell spent three
weeks in residence in the School of
Law, where he taught courses, wrote,
and conducted research on a variety
of legal topics.

The planned addition to the
School of Law will contain a vault for
Powell’s papers, work space and of-
fices for a professional archivist, a
display area, space for visiting
scholars, and an office for the retired
justice. The expansion of Lewis Hall
will also provide space for faculty of-
fices, seminar rooms, and offices for
student legal clinics.

The upper level of the addition
will contain approximately 3,000
square feet of space to provide nine
additional faculty offices and a con-
ference/seminar room for 14. On the
main level, 3,700 additional square
feet will provide office, secretarial,
and reception space for Powell and
a visiting scholar, a _ confer-
ence/seminar room, and additional
reading room and microfilm space
for the library. Almost 1,000 new
square feet of mezzanine space above
the reading room will be used for two
seminar rooms with capacities of 16
and 20.

The lower level will contain about
2,000 square feet of archival space,
housing the Powell papers, an ar-
chivist, and work areas for those us-
ing the papers. The basement level
will provide 1,500 new square feet for
the clinical programs.

The plannned cost of the project
is approximately $3.5 million. The
addition itself, including furnishings
and equipment, will cost $2.8 million,
to be supported by an operational en-
dowment of $700,000.

 

W&L

 

 

WEST

to

Lone Pine

 

VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVYV

IDAHO

by John M. McDaniel, ’64

   

o telephones in the Valley!

With some trepidation, I asked the guy standing by the cash register,
under the mounted antelope head and Coors beer sign, for confirmation of 55
what I had just heard his employee tell my students.

‘‘You mean there are no telephones in the entire Birch Creek Valley =

W&L

 

vVvVVVY

W&L

ope. Not one from Salmon to Mud Lake.”’

The realization that the five undergrad-
uates would be 100 miles from the nearest
telephone left me with a cold feeling. Wel-
come to fieldwork in the western United
States!

In anticipation of the situation that the
students would be facing, I had written the
parents of each participant to ‘‘describe’’
what the circumstances would be like in the
Targhee National Forest of Idaho. I had not
considered the possibility that their son or
daughter would be miles from a telephone. I
was, hence, less than relaxed when Washing-
ton and Lee’s first Western archaeological
season was initiated last summer.

Any post-1973 graduate of our institution
probably has at least a vague recollection of
the archaeological field course that was first
offered in the spring of 1974. For six years
our work took place on the site of the 18th-
century campus of Liberty Hall Academy.
Our work at the school that evolved into
Washington and Lee occurred during both
the spring term and the summer. An interim
report on those findings was published in
1979. The final report—which has involved
the time-consuming processing and analysis
of more than 100,000 artifacts excavated
from the nine structures we located—will be
produced in 1990.

(In anticipation of the publication of that
report, I shall add that we will be able to an-
nounce to alumni where the school was lo-
cated before the Hall was erected in 1793.
That finding had evaded all heretofore his-
torical considerations of the Mulberry Hill
site.)

With the exception of the spring of 1986,
when I was on sabbatical leave, students have
had the opportunity to participate in field-
work each year. Most of the sites we have
excavated since our Liberty Hall fieldwork
have been of late 18th- or 19th-century origin
and located in Rockbridge County. These
sites include schools, farms, and a variety of
domestic structures ranging from an im-
pressive 18th-century stone home to several
crude 19th-century cabins. On one occasion,
in the spring of 1987, we collaborated with
National Forest archaeologists to excavate a
prehistoric site on the Blue Ridge Parkway.

The proximity of the sites in western
Virginia was a tremendous advantage in the
context of the logistical challenges presented

by any excavation. Also, by working in the
area surrounding Lexington, each one of our
projects helped us build a cumulative base of
knowledge concerning historical adaptation to
the area. For these reasons, I was not op-
timistic when students asked me about the
possibility of our doing archaeology in a dif-
ferent geographic region. A sabbatical leave
in 1985-86, however, allowed me to explore
the possibility of archaeological fieldwork in
the West. During the sabbatical I worked
with National Forest archaeologists in the
Targhee National Forest, and we were able to
develop a program that would offer students
the chance to work in Idaho.

The financial base for the opportunity
came from the James G. Leyburn Scholars
Program in Anthropology. Established in
1981, the program has been funded by gifts
from more than 100 alumni and friends of
the University. It was designed to further stu-
dent research in anthropology and was
named in honor of James G. Leyburn, for-
mer dean of the College, who brought an-
thropology to W&L in 1947. As of 1989,
gifts amounting to more than $150,000 have
been placed in the Leyburn fund. The Tar-
ghee National Forest was able to provide
room and board, and the Leyburn program
offered a stipend of $1,200 for each partici-
pant. As I tried to make clear to the stu-
dents, I had not encountered as attractive a
summer opportunity while in graduate
school.

Five undergraduates were selected to par-
ticipate in the program. They were Stephanie
McHaney, ’92, of Cape Girardeau, Mo.; Jef-
frey Clemmer, ’91, of Oxford, Md.; Kathleen
Kelly, ’91, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Chris
Sorrells, ’90, of Lexington, Va.; and
Katharine Stroh, ’90, of St. Louis.

While our summer experience was not
structured specifically to provide an oppor-
tunity for our female students, it was in-
teresting that more than half of our par-
ticipants were female. As a member of Wash-
ington and Lee’s class of 1964, I have faced
many questions from my classmates concern-
ing the University’s decision to admit women.
One alumnus was concerned that the decision
would have a particularly direct impact on
our field courses because ‘‘the girls will not
have a readily available bathroom.’’ At that
juncture, I was quite confident that his con-
cern would not obviate the possibility of

women taking our field courses. I was sure
our women students would have
no problems adjusting to
the general de-
mands of the field;

but the past sum-
mer’s experience in
Idaho, and the condi-
tions it imposed, made

it clear that they were
particularly resourceful,
imaginative, and adven-
turesome. I would be will-
ing to bet that the three
women who worked with us
did and saw more than
my ‘‘concerned’’ classmate
would have.

The site the students
worked maintained the standing remains of
charcoal kilns that were part of the late 19th-
century mining industry of eastern Idaho.
During the 1880s the Viola Mine, located
about 10 miles from the kilns, produced
some $2.5 million worth of lead and silver
ore. The kilns provided charcoal to fuel the
smelters in which mineral impurities were ex-
tracted from the ore; they were built 10 miles
from the mines to be close to the timber that
grew in the higher canyons of Birch Creek
Valley.

The kilns shown in surviving photographs
are known to have been built in 1886, and
each was capable of producing 1,500 bushels
of charcoal per load (30 to 40 cords) of
wood. The documentary record suggests that
a significant number of workers were Chinese
Americans. The industry supported the town
of Nicholia, which is reported to have main-
tained a population high of 600 to 700 peo-
ple during the boom years of the ’80s. We
also have data to suggest the town main-
tained one drugstore, one shoe shop, and
eight saloons. The only standing structures
today are two log buildings that have been
incorporated into a private ranch that now
sits on the town site.

Our goal for the summer was to help
Stabilize the kilns. This is part of a new area
in archaeology known as ‘‘cultural resource
management,’’ and it involves the location
and protection of ‘‘significant’’ cultural
resources. The effort was mandated by the
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and has
resulted in the protection of many archaeo-

   
  
 
  
 
  

logical sites.

‘*Stabilization’’ refers to the
process by which standing structures are
repaired against the ravages of time and van-
dalism. As I told our students before we
went, stabilization is not the most thrilling or
intellectually stimulating type of archaeology;
but it is important, and I was confident it
would complement the students’ other field
experiences.

The Forest Service archaeologist had also
guaranteed us that the students would have
opportunities to visit prehistoric sites in the
area. These visits were conducted as part of
a project in survey archaeology—that strategy
oriented to the location of potentially signifi-
cant sites. The students spent perhaps 15 per-
cent of their on-the-job time surveying rock
shelters that maintained cultural material and
pictographs.

The summer gave the students the chance
to do much more than archaeology, however.
During the recruitment process, I outlined the
recreational opportunities that are available
in the Rockies. The Forest Service’s decision
to exercise a four-day work week provided
additional time for non-archaeological pur-
suits. Two of the students climbed 12,000-
foot Diamond Peak; all backpacked and
hiked in Yellowstone and the Grand Tetons;

W&L 7

   
 
  

Chris Sorrells in
Yellowstone

8 W&L

and some

fished. All of them
became intimately familiar
with the metropolitan areas of
Lead Ore and Mud Lake and their contem-
porary cowboys.

I have only vague reports from the
students about their interactions with the
cowboys, and I made no effort to gain
details. I will also be quick to admit that my
expectations about how ‘“‘off time’’ would be
spent were not entirely accurate. I anticipated
the outdoor activities outlined above; I was
not prepared, however, for the long weekend
to see a Who rock concert in Colorado. All
five undergraduates participated in that pil-
grimage, and their reports of the experience
were frighteningly positive. Thankfully, that
was the only such extravaganza.

While the purpose of the trip was ob-
viously to allow the students to participate in
a different type of fieldwork, I was equally
interested in their gaining exposure to new
ideas about archaeology. From my experience
in traveling to sites in areas beyond that in
which I was trained, I have always believed
one of the major benefits was the interaction
with other archaeologists, both on the site
and off. Hence I was confident that the
students’ work with the archaeologist who
would be hired to supervise the fieldwork
would be important. We were fortunate to
work with a delightful woman from the
University of Utah, Nancy Sheridan. After
talking with our students I am confident that
the interactions they had with Nancy were
particularly important. Several of the
students became interested in her research
and learned about Western prehistory from
her.

Collaboration with archaeologists from
Western institutions has also been invaluable
for me. Such exposure would be exciting for
any archaeologist working at an Eastern
university; but for one who is the only an-

thropologist on the faculty of a “‘teaching
college,’’ the significance is dramatically in-
creased. The work in the West will not only
find its way into virtually every class I
teach—as it already has this year—but it will
also allow me to work with other archaeol-
ogists to increase my scholarly activity. In
that context, my exposure to sites in the
West has helped me develop ties with ar-
chaeologists in New Zealand who are work-
ing on mining sites from the same period as
ours in Idaho. (In fact, there is no question
that the invitation I have received from facul-
ty at the University of Dunedin on the South
Island to visit and work with them during a
proposed sabbatical is a direct result of my
Western exposure.)

From the perspective of Washington and
Lee, the experience helps our institution gain
broader national recognition. Despite the in-
creased exposure we have achieved from a
more aggressive search for prospective
students, a trip to many areas of the West
will make it abundantly clear how modest
our recognition remains. A program such as
this not only benefits students and provides
wonderful research opportunities for faculty,
but it also contributes directly to institutional
recognition in areas in which we are essential-
ly unknown.

The students who worked with us last
summer were not selected because I was con-
vinced they were committed to careers as ar-
chaeologists. On the contrary, I viewed the
opportunity as one that would contribute to
their liberal education. One of the great
values of such an experience is that it is dif-
ferent from most academic exercises. In
retrospect, even the most stimulating of my
academic encounters in the classroom tend to
blend together; but those that involved field-
work, practical experience, or interactions
with visiting professors seem vivid after all
the years.

The summer work also represented an op-
portunity that might not be available to the
students at later stages in their lives. The
young people themselves made this point.
They recognized that visits to archaeological
sites and trips would obviously be possible,
but allocating essentially two months out of
the year is usually not compatible with most
careers and family obligations.

One of the most gratifying aspects of the
summer was the response of Idaho residents

to the students. All of the Forest Service peo-
ple were effusive in their praise. Perhaps the
nicest comment came from a family that
owned the small gas and convenience store—
without telephone—some five miles from the
site. At the end of the summer, the man who
owned the store made a point to tell me that
the students were ‘‘not just nice, but also
down-to-earth and not arrogant like a lot of
college kids. Everyone will really miss them.”’

The experience helped demonstrate to the
students the value of archaeological sites as
cultural resources. One can speak about sites
in class and show pictures of the cave paint-
ings of southern France and northern Spain;
but it is a different experience entirely when
you navigate the steep road in the four-wheel
drive vehicle and then climb the final dis-
tance to reach the rock shelter and see the
pictograph yourself. The effort to get there
and the isolation and beauty of the still, wild
area give you an increased sense of the value
of the resource.

It was gratifying to see the depth of the

sites and pictographs. In one instance, a pair
of bold looters were actually confronted
while we were at the kilns. Again, it is easy
to lecture about the ways in which our cul-
tural resources have been damaged, neglect-
ed, and destroyed, but it is something else
for the students to see the vandalism first-
hand and be exposed to the arrogance of the
perpetrators.

I was not surprised by the depth of feel-
ing some of the students expressed, but it
was rewarding to recognize that the students
have been provided with another perspective
on the crucial need to protect frequently
abused cultural resources. For those who
argue that contemporary students view educa-
tion only as a vehicle for achieving more
earning power, exposure to our summer ex-
perience would have told a different story. I
am convinced the summer did not constitute
simply a rather unusual academic opportunity
Washington and Lee affords it students; it
also represented an experience that five
undergraduates will remember for the rest of

 

students’ anger about current vandalism of

their lives.

VvVVVYV

 

This summer was an odyssey, in the classical sense of the
word. The five of us faced the perils of travel, tasks that we had
to complete, and the trials and tribulations of life in the ‘‘rough.”’
| think | can speak for all of us in saying that we each returned
to Washington and Lee last September with new perspectives
about archaeology, the West, and, most of all, ourselves.

So there we were, in Birch Creek Valley, Idaho, one of the
few places in the civilized world that doesn’t have a telephone.
This is not to say that we couldn’t conceive of life without a
phone, television, and other connections to the world, but it was
a shock. Of course, most of what happened those two months
was a shock.

For example, the community closest to our camp was only
three miles down the road, which is no great distance, but the
name might indicate the type of place it is—Lone Pine, with a
Population of seven, if you count the dog. This was a summer
with few human distractions. This was a summer of creating our
Own fun and discovering the difference between hanging out
at Goshen for a few hours and actually living in nature.

_ We also learned the limits of just how many hours of isola-
tion we could stand before we hopped in a car and drove one
and a half hours for a dinner at the Golden Corral and a few
games of bowling. Conceptions of distance are totally different
Out West. We put many miles in to explore the area—
Yellowstone Park, the Tetons, Idaho Falls—and we even drove
14 hours to Colorado.

Our supervisor, Nancy, was quick to point out that this was
Not even close to a rough field experience. She recounted stories
a

 

‘‘High-Class Grunt Work’’ and Desperate Treks to the Golden Corral
by Kathleen Kelly, ’91

of living in a tent for four months in a camp that had to ship in
water, and, if there had been an emergency, the fastest way out
of the canyon was by helicopter. This was the type of story we
heard around the campfire at night. Nights around the camp-
fire always yielded great stories and, when Scott from Lone Pine
dropped by, guitar in hand, lots of singing.

I'd like to tell you that we discovered all sorts of fascinating
artifacts, but that is not the type of work we were doing. We were
reconstructing the bases of 19th-century charcoal kilns, which
were being eroded by water runoff. Nancy termed this sort of
archaeology ‘‘high-class grunt work,”’ which is an apt descrip-
tion of the sounds that came out of our mouths as we pushed
wheelbarrows full of gravel up steep grades.

Nancy and Dr. McDaniel made sure we were exposed to
other archaeology in the West. We explored other sites in the
area and recorded pictographs in rock shelters. Nancy was a
fountain of information about Southwest archaeology, gained
either from her own field experiences or from her studies at the
University of Utah. She was fascinated by the Birch Creek Valley
area because very little archaeological research has been con-
ducted there. One of my strongest impressions from this ex-
perience is the vastness of space in that part of the country and
the opportunities for much more research and discovery.

As much as | learned about archaeology, the West, and
nature—none of which this city girl had been extensively ex-
posed to—! mostly learned about myself. Honestly, | wasn’t sad
when it was time to go home. We were all ready to get out of
there, but | know that I’ll have to go back someday.

W&L

 

 

 

Rodeo Hands
Fairbanks, Alaska, 1987

Queen’s Day
Haarlem, Holland, 1989

The photographs in these four pages were
taken from an exhibition at Washington
and Lee’s duPont Hall last autumn.

 

 

 

 

10 W&L

MASON

 

Rodeo #1
Fairbanks, Alaska, 1987

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“M y subjects are or-
dinary people in the
day-to-day process of
living. They are often
caught in passing, and
recorded quickly. The
results, | hope, give
the viewer some in-
sight into the world
around us.”

—Charles Mason, ’84

W&L

 

 

11

12

“Of all the musics |
know, jazz provides
the most direct line to
our collective hu-
manity as a species.
Jazz incorporates in-
tellectualism without
being dominated by its
limitations.”

—Patrick Hinely, ’73

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L

Art Blakey
West Berlin, 1987

ae

PATRICK

 

 

 

 

 

Boys Choir of Harlem
Lexington, Va., 1988

 

Barre Phillips
West Berlin, 1988

 

FINELY

W&L

13

 

 

 

14

 

W&L

 

 

 

 

 

mericans have been
divided over the ap-
propriate uses of the flag
for a long time—at least if
one takes divisions on the
Supreme Court as a mirror
of that division. This latent
quarrel boiled to the sur-
face again last June 21
when the Supreme Court,
in the case of Texas v.
Johnson, made flag burn-
ing a protected exercise of
First Amendment rights.
Yet the debate that deci-
sion reignited has been a
feature of the political
scene since at least the ear-
ly 1940s, the era of the
flag-salute cases, and even
before that.
But the latest episode
stirred unexampled dis-
pute. Here is how it began.

BURNING the

for Pleasure and Politics

n the summer of 1984, when the

Republicans met in Dallas to
renominate Ronald Reagan, there was
4 small but noisy street demonstration
called the ‘‘Republican War Chest
Tour.’’ The demonstrators barged
through the baking streets of Dallas,
pausing here and there for ‘‘die-ins’’ to
protest corporate backing of Reagan. At
City Hall, Gregory Lee Johnson burned
a flag which a fellow demonstrator had
removed—illegally, I suppose—from a
building along the way.

As it burned, he and the 100 or so
others chanted, ‘‘America, the red,
white, and blue, we spit on you.”’ It is
remarkable, though irrelevant, that
demonstrators who by this act stirred
such passions could think of nothing
more cutting or original to say about the
country or the flag than this, but
perhaps originality was not exactly the
point. For reasons I shall give present-
ly, it sounds as if Johnson had read up
on the then-current flag-burning prece-
dent before burning one of his own.
Johnson was arrested, tried, and con-
victed for desecrating a ‘‘venerable ob-
ject,’’ and in a manner which, to quote
the Texas statute, ‘‘the actor knows will
seriously offend one or more persons
likely to observe or discover his action.”’

The conviction underwent two ap-
peals in the Texas courts, and on the sec-
ond the Texas Court of Criminal Ap-
peals threw it out as unconstitutional.
There was no outcry, interestingly
enough; or if there was it didn’t carry
far beyond Texas. But the words of the
Texas tribunal were notable: ‘‘Recogniz-
ing that the right to differ is the center-
piece of our First Amendment
freedoms,”’ the judges said, ‘‘a govern-
ment cannot mandate by fiat a feeling
of unity in its citizens. Therefore, that
very same government cannot carve out
a symbol of unity and prescribe a set of
approved messages to be associated with
that symbol when it cannot mandate the
Status or feeling the symbol purports to
represent.’’ In my view, this was good
First Amendment doctrine, for reasons
to which I shall return.

The Johnson case might have ended
there. But Texas officials were unhap-

py with the outcome and appealed the
reversal to the Supreme Court. And the
nation’s highest court went on last June
to confront squarely the issue it had
evaded in case after case for two
decades. The issue is this, briefly stated:
Is burning a U.S. flag when the act is—
sorry, but this is the way judges talk—
‘imbued with a communicative pur-
pose’’ a protected form of free speech?
Five justices said yes; four said no. And
then all hell broke loose.

The Court said in a political setting
whose clear purpose is political protest,
burning the flag to express that protest
can be free speech.

 

This article is adapted from a talk given last November by Edwin M. Yoder Jr., a columnist
for the Washington Post. Yoder’s visit to W&L was sponsored by the Class of 1963 Scholar-

in-Residence Program.

n the analyses of the case which

distinguished constitutional schol-
ars later prepared for post-mortem hear-
ings by various congressional commit-
tees, you may take your pick from a
variety of interpretations. That isn’t
unusual in decisions that elicit several
opinions, or even in those on which the
Court purports to be speaking with one
voice. What had the Court said? It had
at least said that in a political setting
whose clear purpose is political protest,
burning the flag to express that protest
can be free speech. Everyone, like the
decision or not, seemed to agree at least
on that.

This was, as I have said, a conclu-
sion the Court had been cautiously inch-
ing toward for some years, in a line of
cases stretching back to 1969, and even
before that if you include more general
pronouncements on symbolic speech. In
fact, the U.S. Supreme Court had never

W&L

 

15

 

failed to over-
turn flag-abuse
convictions un-
der state laws of
the kind under
which Johnson
had been con-
victed in Texas.
It had overturn-
ed previous con-
victions for
wearing flags on
the seat of one’s
trousers, for
pasting a peace
symbol made of removable tape on a
flag, even for burning it. Indeed, in the
latter case, there had been a flag-burning
decision that was not quite about flag
burning as such. But the precedent bears
most directly on the decision of last
June.

In Brooklyn, N.Y., in May 1970, a
man named Street heard on the radio
that James Meredith had been shot by
a sniper in Mississippi. He took a 48-star
flag from a bureau drawer, carried it
outside, and set it afire at a nearby in-
tersection. A crowd gathered as he said
things like, ‘‘If they let that happen to
Meredith we don’t need an American
flag.”’ The police were summoned.
Street was arrested, tried, and convicted
under a flag-protection statute.

The Supreme Court review to which
Street’s case led is an important one,
and in part for the reason I speculated
about when I said that it sounded as if
Gregory Lee Johnson and his con-
federates in Dallas had read up on the
current state of the law. It was in the
Street decision that the Court avoided
confronting the issue of flag burning per
se by adopting the questionable view—
some might even say, polite fiction—
that Street had been convicted not for
burning the flag, but for what he said
about burning it—that is, for his expres-
sion of dismay at the shooting of James
Meredith.

It was in the Street case that two
noted libertarian justices, Earl Warren
and Hugo Black, asserted in passing that
they did not doubt the authority of
government to punish flag burning. But

16 W&L

The flag holds a very special place in
American hearts and in patriotic ritual.
We constantly use—and abuse—it in
all sorts of ways.

 

the majority, as I say, artfully steered
around that question. Justice John Mar-
shall Harlan, writing for the Court, took
the view that what was really at issue
was not the act of burning the flag but
Street’s ‘‘explanation’’ of it. Street’s
words, wrote Harlan, ‘‘taken alone, did
not urge anyone to do anything
unlawful. They amounted only to
somewhat excited public advocacy of
the idea that the U.S. should aban-
don. . .one of its national symbols.”’
First Amendment freedoms, Harlan
wrote, include ‘‘the freedom to express
publicly one’s opinions about our flag,
including those which are defiant or
contemptuous.’’

So in the Street case the Court did
not reach the act of flag burning, but at-
tempted, for analytical purposes, to
separate the flag as a symbol and object
from words spoken about it. If Gregory
Lee Johnson’s 1984 conviction in Texas
had not been overturned for other
reasons, the Court might well have
followed the Street precedent and taken
the view that the offender was being
punished for chanting, ‘‘Red, white,
and blue, we spit on you.”’

Clearly, the flag-desecration cases of
the Vietnam era set in train a judicial
process in which, sooner or later, the
Court could be brought to grapple
directly with ‘‘symbolic speech’’ in this,
its most explosive imaginable form. And
indeed it is far from unusual for con-
stitutional questions to ‘‘ripen’’ step by
step in this manner.

Let me now attempt to disentangle
the issue. I may as well begin by stating

my own bias,
which will soon
be evident. I re-
gard the Court’s
decision in Texas
v. Johnson not
only as constitu-
tionally correct,
but as very near-
ly inevitable un-
der the First
Amendment
precedents lead-
ing up to it. That
is not to say
that the decision was politically prudent,
but that is neither here nor there.

The flag holds a very special place
in American hearts and in patriotic
ritual. We constantly use—and, unfor-
tunately, abuse—it in all sorts of ways;
and some of the uses are to my taste un-
dignified, vulgar, or frivolous. Not only
do we wave it, fly it on the Fourth of
July, lower it to half-staff in mourning,
pall the coffins of heroes with it; we pass
it out in thousands at political conven-
tions, where it is brandished to suggest,
apparently, that one party or the other
is more patriotic than the other. We suf-
fer used-car dealers to fly it, oversized,
above their lots. (I have no idea what its
symbolic meaning might be in that
context—‘‘trust us,’’ perhaps.) In short,
the flag long has been not only a hal-
lowed object but an all-purpose item in
our lexicon of symbolic language. And
if we would hardly dream of trying to
ban the many popularly approved uses
of the flag in symbolic speech, however
demeaning or trashy they may seem to
you or me, it is hard to see how flag
burning as serious expression can
legitimately be singled out for special
condemnation.

As the Texas Court of Criminal Ap-
peals correctly observed, that is simply
because the First Amendment does not
confine its protection of free expression
to manifestations which happen to en-
joy majority approval. Indeed, once the
premise is accepted, the logic seems air-
tight. If, as most of us would surely
agree, the government may not establish
an approved political creed, neither may

it establish an official meaning for na-
tional symbols, even the most sacred.
What the First Amendment means,
what freedom of thought means, is that
all of us must determine for ourselves
what the flag and various uses of it
mean.

To be sure, the decision in Texas v.
Johnson exposes a cherished emblem to
abuses that huge majorities of
Americans find revolting. But in the
absence of direct incitement to acts of
clearly unlawful behavior, our feelings
and reactions (on which so many
desecration statutes base their prohibi-
tions) are largely beside
the point. To the extent
that they are genuine, in
fact, they amplify such
symbolic messages as
dissidents may wish to
transmit. The Constitu-
tion, Justice Holmes
once remarked, pro-
vides ‘‘freedom for the
thought we hate.’’ His
exact words, written in
dissent in an immigra-
tion case, were these:
‘“‘Some of [the defen-
dant’s] answers might
excite popular pre-
judice, but if there is any
principle of the Con-
stitution that more im-
peratively calls for at-
tachment than any
other, it is the principle
of free thought—not
free thought for those
who agree with us, but
freedom for the thought
that we hate.’’ The ex-
istence of such a princi-
ple, indeed, is now very
nearly a commonplace,
which, in the abstract at
least, few dispute.

In fact, the flag-
burning issue would be
Simple indeed if it were
exactly as I have so far
formulated it. But the
complexity of the reac-
tion shows that it isn’t

 

 

simple. In the Holmes quotation, for in-
stance, the catch lies in that disarming
word ‘‘thought.’’ Serious critics of the
flag-burning decision have a ready
response. Burning a flag, they say, is not
‘‘thought’’ or ‘‘speech’’ in any
legitimate sense. It is conduct, vile con-
duct at that, an act of vandalism that
may be and should be clearly unlawful.
According to this doctrine, those who
burn flags cannot immunize their
criminal acts by a formula of words sug-
gesting that they are sending the coun-
try or the government a message of some
sort. In his testimony to the House

ae:

Pha

 

Judiciary subcommittee on civil and
constitutional rights, July 19, Judge
Robert Bork bore down on this point:

While the First Amendment allows the ex-

pression of any opinion or emotion, it has

never been interpreted to allow any and all
means of expressing them. Even after the

Johnson decision, one supposes, the federal

government or a state government could

punish such actions as delivering a political
message over television in obscenities, or

expressing a political viewpoint from a

sound truck at 2:00 in the morning in a

residential neighborhood. .. .

At first glance, and maybe even at
second, this is a persuasive objection to
the decision. As Judge Bork says, the
law has long permitted
‘*time, place, and man-
ner’’ limitations on
forms of legitimate
speech and advocacy,
certainly including polit-
ical viewpoints delivered
from a sound truck at 2
a.m. in_ residential
neighborhoods. What it
does not do, however, is
ban the delivery of those
messages by sound
trucks on every pretext
everywhere and all the
time, as Judge Bork
would ban flag burning
on every pretext every-
where and all the time.

Moreover, even the
use of obscenities may
be a time, place, and
manner issue. The First
Amendment probably
would not protect, for
purposes of a _ public
demonstration, or at a
political rally, words or
pictures or gestures that
it would sanction, for
valid reasons, in a book
called Lady Chatterley’s
Lover or Ulysses, or in
a video movie involving
‘*obscene’’ political ad-
vocacy (whatever that
might be) which you
might rent and view in
the privacy of your
home. By the same

Wak. Ii

 

token, the Court has not said, in its re-
cent decision or elsewhere, that flag
burning may not be appropriately
restricted. One can easily imagine set-
tings for flag burning that would quickly
and rightly get you arrested and validly
prosecuted for theft, vandalism, arson,
or reckless burning.

In his dissent in the Johnson case,
Justice John Paul Stevens made a
related point:

The creation of a federal right to post
bulletin boards or graffiti on the
Washington Monument might enlarge the
market for free expression, but at a cost I
would not pay. . . .The case has nothing
to do with ‘“‘disagreeable ideas.’’ It involves
disagreeable conduct that, in my opinion,
diminishes the value of an important na-
tional asset. . . .[Johnson] was prosecuted
because of the method he chose to express
his dissatisfaction with [national] policies.
Had he chosen to spray paint. . .his
dissatisfaction on the facade of the Lincoln
Memorial, there would be no question

about the power of the government to pro-
hibit his means of expression. . .

Justice Stevens proceeded to invoke
parallels between flag-desecration laws
and laws forbidding the desecration of
gravesites and other such prohibitions
that have ‘‘absolutely nothing to do with
the content of the message that the sym-
bolic speech is intended to convey.”’ Are
these distinctions, involving a radical
separation of means and ends, entirely
persuasive? Judge Bork and Justice
Stevens, for both of whom I have high
regard, are really harking back to the
earlier cases, especially the Street deci-
sion, in which the Court sought to
separate the message from the mode of
its expression. But if there is to be any
legitimate category of ‘‘symbolic
speech,”’ this is a difficult distinction to
make surgically.

And Justice Stevens’ dissent brings
to mind another point as well. Flags in
general, especially the national flag,
have an established and long-familiar
role in the exercise of symbolic expres-
sion. Venerated monuments—the
Washington Monument, the Lincoln
Memorial, or the Kennedy gravesite at
Arlington cited by Justice Stevens—do
not, on the other hand, share that func-
tion or role. Certainly they do not share
it in any precise sense. They are sym-
18 W&L

**How can
we know the
dancer from
the dance?’’

bols, no doubt, but symbols rarely if
ever used in anything identifiable as
symbolic speech.

There have been political crackpots
and fanatics down through history who
defaced monuments and defiled
gravesites in the name of some cause or
other, the ‘‘expression’’ of some view.
But these are more commonly and easi-
ly identified as unmitigated vandalism,
commonly associated with revolutionary
upheavals, and distant indeed from the
usual channels of ‘‘speech.’’? That is
patently not the case with flags, which
played a role in symbolic communica-
tion long before judges ever faced the
duty of analyzing their standing in the
larger scheme of First Amendment law.
The Supreme Court conceded that fact
as a matter of history as far back as
1931, when the Court voided a Califor-
nia law making it unlawful to display a
red flag as a form of opposition to
‘‘organized government.”’

All of which is to say that flags—
not forgetting the semaphore signal
system once indispensable to ships and
navies—have more in common with
alphabets and words and phrases, pen-
cils and pens, typewriters and word pro-
cessors, paints and brushes, than they
do with the Lincoln Memorial and other
monuments. They for a long time have
been recognized materials for the ex-
pression of thoughts and emotions.
Monuments too, of course, arouse
thoughts and emotions. But they do so
passively, more as objects of contempla-
tion than as modes or means of
**speech.”’

And if that is true, I am bound to
conclude that the ultimate First Amend-
ment issue is whether the American flag
may, of all symbols, be placed and
isolated in a special category of immuni-

ty, different from all other banners
capable of being used as signs and sym-
bols of expression.

That is the assumption Congress
adopted when it recently rewrote the
federal flag protection statute to pro-
hibit all ‘‘physical’’ abuse of the flag.
It deleted all references to the purposes
and aims of the prohibition. The action
obviously sprang from, was clearly oc-
casioned by, the Supreme Court deci-
sion, though Congress evasively called
it a “‘response”’ rather than a correction.

But only if the national flag as a
physical entity may be distinguished
from all that it represents and sym-
bolizes for patriotic Americans (and the
protection of this symbolic value is, of
course, at the root of the outcry) could
this act make constitutional sense.
Politically, it makes sense. For many
frightened members of Congress, it was
the preferred alternative to a constitu-
tional amendment that would alter the
First Amendment in unspecific and
open-ended ways. It was supported by
many in Congress who privately doubt
that a statute can or should correct a
constitutional interpretation by the
Court.

Judge Bork, who certainly doubts
that it may, has said, correctly, that “‘the
legislative history of the statute would
reveal that it was designed to prevent the
expression of an idea by desecrating the
flag [and] members of Congress can
hardly be expected unanimously to tell
falsehoods about why they are passing
a statute... .’” Maybe a disingenuous
law is preferable to a constitutional
amendment; but in other circumstances
the liberal Democrats who contrived this
statutory ‘“‘response’’ would be the first
to ridicule the notion that a Supreme
Court ruling on the First Amendment or
any other constitutional provision can
be altered in the slightest by a mere
statute. Better still would have been a
calm, courageous acceptance that the
decision in Texas v. Johnson is good law
and, in fact, magnificent testimony to
the strength and resilience of our system
of government.

I conclude with a few brief musings
on the broader issue of symbolic speech.

‘‘Surely,’’ writes Walter Berns, one of
our most distinguished and profound
constitutional scholars, “‘it is possible to
distinguish between an idea and the
manner in which it is express-
ed. . . .Libelous speech is not protected
by the First Amendment, nor are
‘fighting words,’ perjury, false advertis-
ing. . .or vulgar speech in a student
assembly, or contemptuous speech in a
courtroom. The list is not endless but it
is long, and commodious enough to in-
clude flag burning.’’

In a recent article in Commentary
magazine, Professor Berns argues that
the freedoms classically intended for
embrace and protection as free speech
are being confused with what he
describes as Nietzschean self-assertion
and the will to power. Berns’ is a for-
midable and articulate attack on the
very roots of the ‘‘relativism’’ in free-
speech doctrine that underlies the recent
flag-burning decision as well as other
controversial stretches of the First
Amendment he and others would ques-
tion. Yet, respect Walter Berns as I do,
I cannot quite see the relevance of all
this to the dilemma of symbolic speech.

It seems to me unrealistic to expect
that so-called ‘‘pure speech’’ is the only
kind of speech that courts will or should
protect at this late date. Expression—a
word deplored by Walter Berns as fuz-
zily broadening the idea of speech—has
wedged its way, for good or ill, into the
vocabulary of modern First Amendment
law. Symbolism in the arts, the prime
Signature of modernism, has been a cur-
rency of literate discourse for a century
or more—and indeed far longer, if one
recalls the place of symbolism in ancient
myth and religion. There is always a
considerable lag, as there should be, in
the accommodation of core constitu-
tional principles to new problems, temp-
tations, and opportunities presented by
Cultural change. The law is a conser-
Vative institution and it cannot afford
to adjust itself impulsively to every pass-
ing fad.

But the need to accommodate sym-
bolic speech, or even ‘‘expression,’’ is
no passing fad. It is improbable and in
my view undesirable that courts will ex-

clude vast provinces of ‘‘expression’’—
plastic, dramatic, musical, all heavily
dependent on the use of symbolic
forms—from the umbrella of First
Amendment liberties. There are, of
course, serious scholars, Judge Bork
and Professor Berns among them, who
insist that speech literally means speech
alone. But is so cramped and crabbed
a vision of discourse what the framers
really had in mind? Speech must be
robust if it is to matter in a
‘‘marketplace of ideas’’ so largely given
over to visual discourse.

Some of us may wish that it were
otherwise, that we still lived in the ex-
clusively linear age of the framers. But
we do not exclude aviation or space
from the concerns of the Commerce
Clause, and it is equally restrictive to ex-
clude symbols from the concerns of the
First Amendment. If that is the case, as
I believe it is, then judges must now
revise and complicate the naive
epistemology that seeks, sometimes ar-
bitrarily, to separate ‘‘content’’ or
‘‘message’’ from mode and form and
medium. It is of the nature of symbolic
expression that the symbol and the idea
are of a piece. As Yeats writes, ‘‘How
can we know the dancer from the
dance?’’

Yes, legal exposition is not literary
criticism, and the analytical techniques
of the law continue to be rooted primari-
ly in linear discourse and cognitive
thought, as they must be. Reasoning is
the only satisfactory mode in which
courts and judges may perform their
duties intelligibly, even when they must
reason about forms of expression that
are in some sense transrational. But life
is more than law, and while law merely
makes itself contemptible by chasing
after the latest fashions, it cannot ignore
new forms of speech and expression
when they become as important as
**symbolic speech’’ has become in our
time. It must deal with the new forms
responsibly, but it must deal with them.
And the result will continue, as it
should, to challenge our critical powers
and even, on occasion, our patience.

 

W&L

19

The Generals’ Report

by Mike Stachura, ’8

 

 

 

 

 

If only 1988-89 hadn’t been such a
good year.

What a tough act to follow! Last
year’s winter sports season produced 20
wins in basketball (the first time that had
happened in seven years), a top 10 finish
for the men’s swiming team (W&L’s
first in more than a decade) and a na-
tional individual championship, and the
University’s first All-American in
wrestling.

So as the 1989-90 winter sports
season got underway, expectations were
high. They may have been too high.
There was no 20-win season for basket-
ball, no national champion swimmer,
and no wrestling All-American.

But there were some splendid ac-
complishments and some splendid
athletes. Such as freshman swimmer
Claire Dudley, who became W&L’s first
freshman woman to make All-American
status since 1986. And seven-time All-
American swimmer Jay Smith and his
30-race regular-season winning streak.
And Chris Jacobs’ assault on 1,000
career points. Not to mention the
women’s swim team’s sheer dominance
of the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference for the third year in a row.

No, it wasn’t necessarily the winter
of W&L’s discontent. It just seemed that
way some of the time.

Basketball

Verne Canfield’s troops gave the
W&L veteran mentor his 22nd winning
season in 26 years in Lexington, but it
wasn’t without trial, tribulation, and
disappointment.

The Generals, who returned four
starters from last year’s 20-7 team,
started the season quickly and effective-
ly, scoring 102 and 97 points in their first
two games, both of which were wins. By
the Christmas break, W&L had suffered
just two losses, both coming to teams

ranked in the top 20 in Division III.
continued on page 37

 

Mike Holton looks for Ed Hart (40) to break
open in the Generals’ early-season meeting
with Randolph-Macon.

 

 

 

 

The W&L Winter

GAZETTE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21

W&L

 

 

 

Frank A. Parsons, ’54 (right), coordinator of capital planning at
Washington and Lee, shows Gerry Lenfest the progress that has been
made on the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Construction on
the center (pictured below) is scheduled to be completed in the fall.

Walter Annenberg makes $100,000 gift
to Lenfest Center for Performing Arts

Magazine publisher Walter H.
Annenberg has given Wash-
ington and Lee a gift of $100,000
for the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts.

Annenberg’s gift completes
funding for the center, which
will be finished this fall. The en-
tire cost of the project, including
an endowment to support its
programs, is $11.5 million.

The center will be named for
Marguerite and H. F. (Gerry)
Lenfest, ’53, who contributed $3
million to the project.

**We are most grateful for this
generous contribution,’’ said
W&L President John D. Wilson
in announcing the gift.

‘‘Ambassador Annenberg’s
thoughtful philanthropic con-
tributions to American life and
learning have significantly
elevated whole precincts of our
national life. This gift will have
a similar impact upon our
University community and the
larger community of the Shenan-
doah Valley.’’

Annenberg is the former presi-
dent of Triangle Publishing,

which published TV Guide and
Seventeen magazine, in addition
to other periodicals.

During his time at Triangle,
Annenberg was a close associate
of Gerry Lenfest, who served as
associate counsel for the com-
pany and later directed its com-
munications division.

Annenberg is also the former
ambassador to Great Britain and
Northern Ireland. He is regard-
ed as one of America’s foremost
philanthropists to higher educa-
tion and has made contributions
to fund programs in communica-
tions, medicine, and the arts at
educational institutions through-
out the country.

Construction on the Lenfest
Center is due to be completed in
late September. Although bitter-
ly cold weather in December of
last year caused some delays,
unseasonably warm tempera-
tures in February and March
helped speed up the construction
and put it back on schedule,
W&L officials say.

ABD program receives duPont grant

The Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable, and Educational
Fund has awarded Washington and Lee a grant of $113,139 for its
All But Dissertation (ABD) Teaching Fellows Program for minori-
ty doctoral candidates.

The grant will make it possible for the University to bring an
additional minority ABD fellow to the campus for the next four
years, beginning July 1, 1990.

The ABD Program is designed to increase the number of minority
teachers on the W&L faculty and to help minority doctoral can-
didates complete their dissertation and receive the degree. ABD
fellows teach a reduced course load and receive travel, secretarial,
and office support.

‘‘The duPont grant is significant,’’ says John W. Elrod, vice
president for academic affairs at W&L, ‘‘because it enables Wash-
ington and Lee to increase the number of minority faculty in its
classrooms and makes it possible for the University to attract ABD
fellows from some of the strongest graduate schools in the country.”’

Currently Jarvis A. Hall, a doctoral candidate at Duke Univer-
sity, serves as an ABD fellow in W&L’s politics department.

 

 

22 W&L

 

 

Three days before Thanksgiv-
ing, Tie Sosnowski got the urge
to travel.

He knew that on Wednesday,
his family would begin the long
drive from Dallas to St. Louis to
spend the holiday with relatives.
But Tie had a better idea.

‘*! figured that in the time it
would take us to drive halfway
across the country, I could get to
Berlin and back,’’ the Wash-
ington and Lee senior recalls.

Inspired by the television
photos of the dismantling of the
Berlin Wall, Tie picked up the
telephone, called his mother at
work, and asked, ‘“‘Is it okay if
I go somewhere, as long as I’m
in St. Louis by dinnertime
Thursday?’’

It wasn’t until their son ar-
rived home that evening that his
parents learned his destination.
“*They freaked out,’’ he admits.
‘*But I told them we didn’t have
time to argue about it. I just took
off my tie and we went to the air-
port. I had no luggage, no ticket,
no money—nothing.

“I guess I’m kind of im-
pulsive.’’

Seventy-two hours later, Tie
showed up in St. Louis—along
With a sizeable portion of Die
Mauer, the Berlin Wall. Since his
return, Tie has appeared on
Cable News Network, sold pieces
Of the wall to customers all over

 

i

this country, and made enough
money to cover his expenses and
have a little left over.

But, the young entrepreneur
insists, it wasn’t profit that
motivated him to dash off to
Europe on a moment’s notice.
**As I was buying the ticket at
the airport, my dad said, ‘You
know, you should be using this
money to pay for your educa-
tion.’ I said, ‘Dad, I pay $10,000
a year to learn history. I will pay
$2,000 to see history.’ ”’

So began one of the most un-
forgettable adventures of Tie
Sosnowski’s life. (He ranks this
trip right up there with the one
he took to Israel a while back,
in the midst of the Palestinian
uprising.) During the 36 hours
after his arrival in Berlin, he met
countless German citizens, had
his tools confiscated more than
once by German authorities (and
made several trips into East
Berlin to buy more), struck up a
friendship with some East Ger-
man soldiers, and hammered at
the wall until his fingers bled.

**T got pretty cold and tired,”’
he says. ‘‘But heck, it was fun.”’

Indeed, Tie had so much fun
that he made a return trip to
Berlin several weeks later. After
spending a few days getting more
pieces from the wall, Tie decid-
ed he’d like to see more of
Europe. He bribed his way

across the Czechoslovakian
border and drove to Prague,
where he lit a candle in
Wenceslas Square and signed a
petition for presidential can-
didate V’aclav Havel.

*‘That part of the trip,’’ he
says, ‘“was incredible. That was
probably more exciting than be-
ing in Berlin.’’

Still, the Berlin portion of his
journey proved to be the more
lucrative. And Tie was a shrewd
enough businessman to realize it.
Today, his house on Lexington’s
Perry Lane looks more like a
museum than a college student’s
home.

One of the four bedrooms is
given over entirely to travel
souvenirs. Arranged neatly on a
crisp white sheet are rows and
rows of concrete slabs, many
brightly decorated with the
familiar spraypaint. Stacked on
the bed’s headboard are more
pieces, which Tie had cut into
blocks of equal size. Each has a
bronze plaque affixed to it which
reads, ‘‘Berlin Wall, 1961-
1989.’’ (Ever the salesman, Tie
points out that he has treated
these pieces with asbestos
sealant, so no dust comes off in
the hands.)

These particular blocks go for
about $30. At department stores
in Washington and New York,
he says, you might pay $100

“f - << -"
Bes

>

 

When the wall crumbled, Tie Sosnowski, ’90, was there to pick up the pieces

each. The bigger pieces, natural-
ly, are more expensive—up to
$500 or so.

The display room also con-
tains items that are not for sale,
such as an East German soldier’s
hat, which was given to Tie in ex-
change for one of his business
cards. ‘“*The Germans were very
excited to learn I was from
Dallas,’’ he recalls. ‘‘They all
watch the TV show.

**There was no difference be-
tween the East German soldiers
and my buddies at W&L. We
talked about sports. They were
very cool dudes.’’

Tie and the soldiers also
discussed relations between East
and West. ‘‘One of them, who
was just my age, told me that the
East is the soul of Germany,”’
Tie explains. ‘‘He said, ‘West
Germany needs East Germany
just as much as we need them.’ ”’

After his experiences this
winter, Lexington seems a little
tame, Tie admits. But he’s
already busy planning his next
adventure.

**T think I would like to bike
around the world,’’ he says.
‘*Not many people have done
that. If not, I’ll just bike across
the U.S. and maybe climb
Mount Rainier.

**Then I guess I’ll cut my hair
and get a job.”’

 

WaL 23

 

 

 

 

The birth of a writer: a conversation with John Updike

When I’m older and look back
on my four years at Washington
and Lee, I know I’ll declare my
interview with acclaimed author
John Updike one of the most
distinguished moments of my
college life. Being an aspiring
writer, I am_ particularly
fascinated by established writers’
beginnings. Updike’s was excep-
tionally engaging.

Updike came to campus in
January under the auspices of
the Glasgow Endowment, which
was established in 1960 ‘‘to pro-
mote the art of expression by pen
and tongue.’’ During the 1989-90
academic year, the endowment
has brought a number of literary
figures to the campus, including
Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Rita
Dove and Washington and Lee’s
own William Hoffman, a
member of the class of 1953.

Updike and I spoke the morn-
ing after he had given a reading
to a packed crowd in Lee
Chapel. He was charming in his
dark, striped suit. His white hair
appeared to have a mind of its
own, spraying in four or five
directions over the crown of his
head. His unusual face with its
smallish eyes and huge, pointed
nose looked open to any ques-
tion I might have-had for him.
His voice sounded like the de-
meanor he exuded, deceptively

uncomplicated, intermixed with
shades of mischief.

Updike wrote about his
childhood in his latest work,
Self-Consciousness, memoirs
neatly divided into six units on
subjects ranging from his life as
a boy in Shillington, Pa., to his
attitude toward Vietnam. In par-
ticular, he describes his battles
with psoriasis and stuttering dur-
ing adolescence. His insecurities
about both problems, he said,
perhaps made him more in-
troverted and perceptive—
qualities which undoubtedly
strengthened his abilities as a
writer.

I wanted to know how it felt
to be rid finally of both afflic-
tions. He replied that although
his skin is basically clear,
**medical science is still getting a
grip on psoriasis; it’s not really
curable.’’ At that point, as we
were halfway through the inter-
view, he began to stutter. ‘‘As
you can see, I’m still not quite
done with that either,’’ he said.
**Maybe it was never as bad as
I said [in the book]. But it an-
noyed me, because I could
always think of something I
wanted to say.

**] think I’m kind of a self-
conscious person anyway. So it’s
not surprising that I would stam-
mer and blink. When I see

myself on TV, it’s kind of alarm-
ing because here’s this sort of
coy, terribly coy, slightly flirty,
elderly man doing a lot of blink-
ing and little agitated motions
with his hands and so on. I’m
still a kind of nervous, shy per-
son for all my bravado.”’

After graduating from high
school, Updike attended Har-
vard on a scholarship. His family
wasn’t wealthy; his father was a
teacher. (Updike writes about
their struggle in  Self-
Consciousness.) Right out of
Harvard, he went to work for
the New Yorker at the age of 22.

**One of my professors called
you a prodigy,”’ I said. ‘‘Do you
feel like a prodigy?’’

He replied casually, ‘‘Not real-
ly. I’d been sending things to the
New Yorker since I was 16. So
I had had a certain amount of re-
jection. At college, although I
plugged away, I basically was
not in the top echelon of cherish-
ed writers. I felt that my stuff
had a faintly kind of crass edge;
and in many ways, I was con-
sidered kind of an uncouth fig-
ment in college. I did have a cou-
ple of breaks [such as working at
the New Yorker] and tried to
capitalize on them.’’

Updike said he tells struggling
writers to ‘‘keep at it’’ and ‘“‘try
to be fairly specific in your am-

LL

bitions. Don’t just want to be a
writer; find a magazine you’d
like to appear in or a kind of
book you’d like to write. Also,
don’t get discouraged easily—
although it is discouraging, ac-
tually.’’

Author William Styron told
me that writers, like priests, have
a calling. I asked Updike if he
agreed.

**Bill probably has a slightly
more priestly view of the profes-
sion than I do,’’ he answered. ‘‘I
did from quite early on want to
be a cartoonist, but that slowly
evolved into being a writer,
which seemed to be what I could
make a living at. I just didn’t
want to have to put on a suit and
teach high school like my father
did.”’

In his memoirs, Updike wrote,
**However liberal my views, I
had no dealings with blacks
either as equals or as servants
and was shy and nervous about
them.’’ Yet he also wrote of his
elder daughter’s marriage to a
West African.

‘*‘Was that hard for you?”’ I
asked. ‘‘Was it like Guess Who’s
Coming to Dinner revisited?’’

*‘No, it really wasn’t,’’ he
replied. ‘‘The guy appears to be
such a good husband and father.
He makes Liz happy. I hope I’m
a sufficiently good American
and a good liberal not to
be. . . .Who knows what I felt?
But I think the main thing was
my daughter seemed happy
about it, and so we all were.
Now she’s produced two lovely
grandsons.

**You’ll be interested to know
that whether modeling himself
after her or not, my older son
has now married a girl from
Kenya and just produced a half-
African Updike. I’m an African
grandfather.”’

The most important thing he
could teach his grandchildren,
Updike said, is ‘‘to ride with the
punches. My father was a man
of some advice, and he would
say, no matter what happens to
you, it will be a new experience.
Be fairly open and don’t let life
get you down.”’

—by Joei L. Dyes, 91

 

 

24 W&L

 

 

__

Scholarships honor

During the last few years, hun-
dreds of former Washington and
Lee science students have made
gifts to W&L to honor two of
their favorite professors.

Those gifts have been used to
endow two scholarships for out-
standing science students. The
James Keith Shillington Scholar-
ship was awarded for the first
time this year to Teri L. Snider,
a chemistry major from Buena
Vista. Her classmate, Bernadette
Kempton of Harrisonburg, Va.,
is the first James Holt Starling
Scholar.

Both scholarships are des-
ignated for rising juniors who
show promise in the fields of
chemistry and premedical stud-
ies, respectively. The recipients
are chosen by members of the
chemistry and _ premedical
faculty.

‘*Bernadette and Teri are very
bright students,’’ says William J.
Watt, professor of chemistry.
‘*They are at the

 

i t,
rnade and a righ
Abov" arlin’,
Jame
snider
a

Starling, Shillington

top of their class, and they cer-
tainly deserve this honor.”’

Both Snider and Kempton
have participated in the Univer-
sity’s Robert E. Lee Research
Program and were named to
Phi Beta Kappa during their
junior year, an unusual
achievement.

The Starling and Shil-
lington scholarships
were established two
years ago by
former students
of the two
professors.
Dr. Arthur
E. Broadus,
64, is chairman
of the Shillington
scholarship committee,
while Dr. Douglas L.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Gaker, ’81,
directs the Star-
ling scholarship effort.

During his 37 years on the
Washington and Lee faculty,
Shillington has been a friend and
mentor to many chemistry
students. This winter he suffered
a mild stroke and is currently on
medical leave from the Univer-
sity while he recuperates at the
extended care facility of Lex-

   
 

ington’s Stonewall Jackson
Hospital.

Starling died in 1987 at the age
of 74. He joined the W&L
biology faculty in 1942 and
retired in 1983. For many years
he was director of premedical
studies at the University and ad-
vised countless undergraduates
who were planning careers in the
medical field.

*‘Jim and Keith were in-
strumental in the lives of many
Washington and Lee students,”’
Watt believes. ‘‘They became in-
volved with their students and
treated them not just as students,
but as human beings. They saw
the value that students had and
built on that. And they turned
out some wonderful physicians
and chemists.”’

The Shillington and Starling
scholarship funds continue to
grow. Gifts may be directed to
Washington and Lee’s Office of
Development.

 

W&L 25

 

 

 

 

Lords, Ladies, Love Natives raise money for MS in annual lip-sync contest

When the house lights dimmed
and the crowd began to applaud
for the first act of this year’s lip-
sync contest for Multiple
Sclerosis, sponsor Gerald Darrell
had a feeling that the annual
event had become a hit on the
W&L campus. But as he studied
the expressions of the audience
watching their friends and
classmates lip-synch their
favorite songs, Darrell was sure
that the fund-raiser for MS is
here to stay.

Since its debut in 1987, the
charity-oriented competition has
grown from fewer than 10 acts
per contest in the first three years
to 17 acts this January. In fact,
1990’s event packed the General
Headquarters (the University’s
restaurant and tavern, which was
formerly known as the Cockpit)
to standing-room-only status,
and more than 100 people were
turned away at the door.

Darrell attributes the success
of lip sync to the nature of the
event. ‘‘The crowd wants
kickback rock’n’roll, and that’s
what they get,’’ he laughs. When
the members of the audience
know they are going to have fun,
the $3 admission fee is money
gladly given, he adds.

**It’s fun for people who par-
ticipate and fun for people who
go,’’ agrees first-time contestant
Cathy Williams, a senior. ‘‘Peo-
ple want to participate and they
get to raise money for charity,
too.’’

After being part of the au-
dience for three years, Williams
finally got the chance to be one
of the performers. Along with
juniors Lynette Goodman and
Terri McFarland, she lip-
synched Paula Abdul’s ‘‘It’s Just
the Way That You Love Me,’’ a
song they selected for its upbeat
rhythm and popularity.

**] spent a lot of time in front
of the mirror practicing the
words,’’ says Williams, who
played the role of lead singer. ‘‘It
was difficult learning the oohs
and ahs, and I had to know every
place that she [Abdul] took a
breath.”’

The trio, better known as
‘*The Lord’s Ladies,’’ added a
twist to their act when supposed
spectator and retired coach Nor-
man Lord joined them on stage
and danced along. Since the song
is about a man, the group decid-
ed to invite a prominent campus
figure to play the role. ‘*We were
going to ask President Wilson,”’
Williams explains, ‘‘but since
Coach Lord retired last year, we
thought it would be a good way
to get him back on campus.”’

The combination of the Ladies
and their lord got the crowd on
their feet and out of control with
applause, a response that helped
land them second prize. The
ladies were second only to the
Love Natives with their rendition
of Morris Day and the Time’s
**Jungle Love.’’ (See sidebar,
next page.)

Third-place winner Michael
Patrick, a sophomore, had so
much fun performing in this
year’s contest that he’s ready to
enter again next year. Along with
classmates Carolyn Cox and
Kristin Ramberg, Patrick
donned 1960s attire and rocked
the crowd with the B-52s’ recent
hit, ‘‘Love Shack.’’

**It was a spur-of-the-moment
kind of thing,’’ admits Patrick,
whose group put their act
together two days before the
contest. Having seen the ‘‘Love
Shack’’ music video only a cou-
ple of times, the B-52 look-alikes
created their own moves but
could have passed for the real
thing. With go-go costumes bor-
rowed from the drama depart-
ment and a few fake eyelashes,
Cox and Ramberg set the stage
for excitement. ‘‘The time we

 

**The Lord’s Ladies’’ (above), composed of Terri McFarland, Cathy
Williams, and Lynette Goodman, took second place in this year’s lip-
sync contest. Also participating in the event were the Educated Rappers
(below)—Juarez Newsome, Curtis Joseph, and Donald Dempsey.

 

26 W&L

were on stage went by so fast,’’
Patrick noted. ‘‘I was nervous,
but getting feedback from the
crowd really got me going.”’

The size of the crowd, one of
the event’s signs of success, has
forced Darrell and his commit-
tee of student volunteers to make
some changes in lip sync’s
future. ‘‘We learn a lot each year
and it gets better and better,’’ he
says, ‘‘but we know we’ve gotta
get out of the GHQ.”’ Although
he is not certain where next
year’s contest will be held, Dar-
rell would like to move to a
larger place so that everyone who
wants to participate can be
accommodated.

In response to lip sync’s grow-
ing popularity, Darrell hopes to
form a campus chapter of
Students Against Multiple
Sclerosis as well. ‘‘Personally, I
like getting involved with
students;’ says the sponsor, who
is also the director of the Univer-
sity’s food service. ‘Besides, the
contest has gotten too large to
operate without a committee and
a budget.”’

Darrell’s role as area special
events coordinator for the Na-
tional Multiple Sclerosis Society
was the driving force in bringing
the contest to W&L, but it has
truly become a campus event.

This year’s contest alone
boasted acts representing more
than three fraternities and
several dorm counselors, as well
as two groups from neighboring
Sweet Briar College. But the en-
thusiastic sponsor has raised his
participation goal for next year’s
lip-syne contest one step further.
In 1991, Darrell wants to see
some creativity from the faculty.

Judging from this year’s suc-
cess, Darrell may have his way.
Although he and his volunteers
set their financial goal at $1,500,
lip sync raised $2,150, a sizeable
jump from the first year’s pro-
ceeds of $550. But as long as the
W&L community has a great
time and the chance to be
creative, Darrell says he will give
the event his best shot.

—by Wendy Wolford, ’90

 

 

 

Live on MTV, Fijis win national ‘rock-a-like’ title

 

MTV called them ‘‘exotic and psychotic.’’ At Washington
and Lee, they’re known simply as ‘‘The Love Natives.’’

They are also national champions.

Last month in Daytona Beach, Fla., this uninhibited group
of W&L students danced, pranced, and strutted their way to first
place in a ‘‘rock-a-like’’ competition, which was broadcast live
on MTV, the music television station.

The Love Natives—all members of W&L’s Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity—had taken top honors in W&L’s 1990 lip-sync con-
test. They were one of only six collegiate acts from throughout
the country chosen to participate in the final round.

The audience consisted of college students from throughout
the country who had come to Daytona for spring break. And
this particular contest had no panel of judges: The viewers
themselves decided the outcome by telephoning in their votes.

More than 200,000 calls came in from throughout the coun-
try. Thirty-one percent of them were in favor of the Love
Natives.

Not surprisingly, hundreds of those calls were placed from
Lexington. ‘‘We were a little nervous, because we were up against
teams from much bigger schools,’’ says Jim Ambrosini, 90, lead
**singer’’ of the Love Natives. ‘‘We figured no one at W&L was
even going to watch us. But we came back and found out
everybody here was really psyched. People called in to vote for
us dozens and dozens of times. It feels good to know everyone
was supporting us.”’

After the contest, the W&L student newspaper, the Ring-
tum Phi, carried an editorial praising the new champions. ‘‘The
Fiji Love Natives deserve a laurel and hearty handshake for their
stellar performance in Daytona Beach,”’ wrote the Phi. ‘‘Those
who say their win speaks well of the school are right.”’

The prize for the winning performance was a 1990 Ford
Mustang, donated by Hertz. The Natives plan to sell the car and
divide the proceeds among themselves. But they seem most
pleased to have received the national title itself.

**W&L’s such a small school, and it doesn’t get a lot of na-
tional exposure,’’ Ambrosini says. ‘‘Now everybody who
watched that contest will know about W&L.’’

The Love Natives don’t plan careers in the lip-sync field,
though Ambrosini admits, “‘If you could make a living doing
it, I would.”’ Still, he’s grateful to have had the experience. ‘‘We
had a blast. This is something we will remember for the rest of
our lives.’’

 

Above, Love Native Jim Ambrosini rocks the crowd
during the W&L lip-sync contest in the General Head-
quarters; below, Love Natives Kirk Sohonage, Larry
Parker, Tyler Suiters, Ambrosini, Dan Bevill, and
Hayward Lee pose near the MTV stage following
their prize-winning performance in Daytona Beach.

 

 

 

Shenandoah awards Goodheart, Carter prizes to Hoffman and Frye

Shenandoah, The Washington
and Lee University Review, has
awarded its 1989 Jeanne Char-
piot Goodheart Prize for Fiction
to William Hoffman, ’53, for his
Story, ‘‘Boy Up a Tree,’’ which
was published in the magazine
last year.

Hoffman is the author of two
volumes of short fiction and 10
novels, including The Land That
Drank the Rain and Godfires.
His most recent book, Furors
Die, was published this year by

 

ee

Louisiana State University Press.
He lives in Charlotte Court
House, Va.

The Goodheart Prize carries a
$1,000 cash award. It is given an-
nually to the author of what is
judged to be the best story
published in Shenandoah during
a volume year. The prize is made
possible by a gift of the late Mrs.
Goodheart’s husband, Harry G.
Goodheart Jr., ’41, and their
son, Harry G. Goodheart III,
’°66, of Bradenton, Fla., who

wish the prize to reflect Jeanne
Goodheart’s enthusiastic interest
in well-crafted fiction and her af-
fection for Washington and Lee.

Shenandoah also awarded its
1989 Thomas H. Carter
Memorial Award for Literary
Criticism to Northrop Frye for
his essay, ‘‘The Dialectic of
Belief and Vision.”’

Frye is University Professor at
Massey College of the Universi-
ty of Toronto. He is the author
of Anatomy of Criticism, Fables

of Identity, The Stubborn Struc-
ture, and The Great Code: The
Bible and Literature.

The Carter Award is a $400
cash prize given to the author of
what is judged to be the best
essay published in Shenandoah
during a volume year. It is given
in honor of the late Thomas H.
Carter, ’54, one of the founders
of Shenandoah.

W&L 27

 

 

 

Minority Student Association commemorates Martin Luther King’s birthday

For a week in January,
members of the Washington and
Lee and Lexington communities
celebrated the life and work of
one of their heroes—Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr.

The commemoration was
organized by W&L’s Minority
Student Association. It began
Jan. 15, which is nationally
recognized as Martin Luther
King Day, with a program at
Lexington’s First Baptist
Church. During the evening the
University’s Glee Club and the
church’s choir presented a vari-
ety of musical selections, and
students from both Washington
and Lee and neighboring
Virginia Military Institute spoke
about what King’s dream means
to them.

Two days later, a crowd
gathered in Lee Chapel to hear
the first-ever Martin Luther King
Memorial Lecture. The speaker
was Jarvis A. Hall, the Univer-
sity’s ABD (All But Dissertation)
fellow, who teaches in the
politics department. Hall’s topic
was ‘‘Non-Violent Social
Change.”’

The following week, the
celebration concluded with an
address by Noel Taylor, the
mayor of Roanoke, Va.

In years past, the MSA has of-
fered only one program to com-
memorate King’s life. The
organization decided to expand
the event this year, says MSA
president James Rambeau, ’91,
because ‘‘we thought the campus

 

Jarvis A. Hall, Washington and Lee’s ABD fellow, delivers the in-
augural Martin Luther King Memorial Lecture in Lee Chapel.

needed greater exposure to the
life and works of Dr. King.
**I’ve heard people ask, ‘Why
should we celebrate Dr. King’s
life?’ I find that an absurd ques-
tion. He was a great man who
sacrificed his life to make
America a better place to live.’’
The academic calendar also
encouraged the MSA to schedule
a major event in January.
**Because we have a mid-winter
break in February, it’s very dif-
ficult to do very much during
Black History Month,’’
Rambeau explains. ‘‘It worked
out well for us to adopt a three-
tiered approach: One program
involved students, one featured
a faculty member, and one
speaker was from off campus.

‘“*It was a good balance—and
it was especially good to hear the
comments of some of the
students, who don’t actually
remember King and the civil
rights movement. It was good to
hear them say, ‘We thank you
for what you did.’ ”’

The response of the W&L
community was gratifying,
Rambeau says. ‘‘I am always im-
pressed with the support of the
faculty and the students,
especially the members of the
Glee Club, who gave of their
time to perform during the ser-
vice, and the professors who an-
nounced the event in class and
encouraged their students to
attend.

‘We had a huge crowd at the

service, and I think there were
more white people there than
black. That’s just the opposite of
how it was my freshman year,
when we had more black people
than white, and I think it
represents a turning point for
W&L. The general community is
starting to see the importance of
Dr. King’s works.”’

Rambeau was particularly
grateful to the Lexington
Ministerial Association, which
cosponsored the Martin Luther
King Memorial Lecture. ‘‘The
area ministers approached us
about sponsoring some sort of
lecture, and now we plan to
make it an annual event,’’
Rambeau says. ‘‘In the future,
we hope that some of our alumni
will help us support this event.”’

Rambeau believes it is impor-
tant to educate his fellow
students about King and his
dream. ‘‘I believe blacks have
been afforded the opportunity to
pursue many endeavors that had
been denied to them,”’ he says.
**Now the laws are on the books.
But we still need to change peo-
ple’s attitudes and get rid of
some of the stereotypes.

**T think we’re doing a good
job at W&L in changing some at-
titudes. The University is trying
to bring in more black faculty,
and this year the MSA got its
biggest disbursement ever from
the student Executive Commit-
tee. That says a lot; it says we’re
moving forward.”’

W&L School of Law named to top 25 list by U.S. News & World Report

Washington and Lee’s School
of Law has been named one of
the top 25 law schools in the
country, according to a recent
survey by U.S. News & World
Report.

Of the 175 law schools ac-
credited by the American Bar
Association that offer the doctor
of jurisprudence degree, Wash-
ington and Lee was ranked 25th.
Of the top schools ranked, W&L

28 W&L

was the only one with an enroll-
ment of fewer than 500 students.

(The School of Law limits its
total enrollment to 360, with an
entering class of 120 students.
These students are selected from
approximately 2,000 applicants.)

To develop its ranking system,
members of the U.S. News staff
interviewed faculty members and
deans at dozens of graduate and
professional schools, large and

small, public and private.

The data combine a subjective
survey of academic reputation
with objective information
relating to an institution’s selec-
tivity in admissions, its instruc-
tional and other resources, and
its graduation patterns.

Washington and Lee’s law
school was ranked seventh in the
quality of instructional re-
sources. It was also the least ex-

pensive of the private law
schools listed among the top 25.

U.S. News ranked Yale
University as the top law school
in the nation. The other top five
are the University of Chicago,
Stanford University, Columbia
University, and Harvard Uni-
versity.

 

 

 

a .
Howison named

dean of students

David L. Howison, dean of
student affairs at St. Lawrence
University in Canton, N.Y., has
been named dean of students at
Washington and Lee. He will
succeed Lewis G. John, ’58, who
plans to leave the post this sum-
mer and return to full-time
teaching.

‘Dean Howison brings to
Washington and Lee a wealth of
experience in working with
students and in helping to shape
campus life in constructive
ways,’’ said John D. Wilson,
president of W&L. ‘At St.
Lawrence, he supervised the
work of the offices responsible
for residence hall life, counsel-
ing, career planning and place-
ment, and student organizations
and activities. He also played an
important role in the university’s
program to improve fraternity
and sorority life.

**After I met Dean Howison,
I was not surprised to receive
from the search committee a
unanimous recommendation
that he be invited to join us here.
We are all gratified to learn that
he has accepted that invitation.”’

Howison received his bach-
elor’s degree from Ohio
Wesleyan, his master’s from
Miami University, and his doc-
torate in education from Indiana
University. He served as
residence hall director and
freshman adviser at Miami for
three years before being named
assistant dean of students at St.
Lawrence in 1968.

In 1971 he was appointed
director of the E. J. Noble Uni-
versity Center at St. Lawrence.
He remained in that position un-
til 1984, when he was named
dean of student affairs.

Howison is a member of the
National Association of Student
Personnel Administrators, the
mid-Atlantic chapter of the
American College of Sports
Medicine, the Canadian Con-
gress On Leisure Research, and
the Association of College
Unions-International.

B’nai B’rith Hillel Counselorship reestablished at W&L

Not so many years ago, there
were two fraternities for Jewish
students on the Washington and
Lee campus. Today, there are
none.

The last member of Phi Ep-
silon Pi graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1976.
This year, the last of the Zeta
Beta Taus will do the same, since
the house closed its doors two
years ago.

After the 1960s, Jewish enroll-
ment slowly decreased to less
than two percent—fewer than 40
students between the college and
law school combined.

Now, several of those students
are determined to reverse that
trend. ‘‘We’ve decided it’s time
to reestablish the Jewish presence
this campus once knew,”’ says
Douglas B. Brown, a sophomore
from Silver Spring, Md. Doug is
the newly elected president of
Washington and Lee’s Hillel
Counselorship, an organization
for Jewish students.

The B’nai B’rith Hillel Foun-
dation began in the 1920s to
serve the religious, cultural, and
social needs of the 400 Jewish
students at the University of Il-
linois. Today, about 300,000
Jewish students are enrolled in
universities and colleges with
full-time Hillel Foundations and
part-time Hillel Counselorships.
Chapters and counselorships
also exist in Canada, Brazil,
Israel, the Netherlands, South
Africa, Switzerland, the United
Kingdom, and Venezuela.

The Hillel Foundation spon-
sors a variety of campus ac-
tivities, including lectures and
classes in Jewish thought and
life, religious services and holi-
day observances, and social ser-
vice projects.

A Hillel Counselorship was
actually started at Washington
and Lee in the mid-1960s by
three members of the class of
1969—Howard A. Cohn, Jeffrey
Wexler, and Craig B. Mardus. It
became inactive, however, and is
only now being reinstated.

Hillel’s new officers, in addi-
tion to Brown, are vice president

Thomas E. Gottsegen, ’91, of
New Orleans; secretary Heather
A. Turner, ’92, of Roanoke; and
treasurer Marc J. Ackerman,
91, of Oakland, N.J.

The organization will meet a
very real need, Brown believes.
“I’m told the Jewish students
back in the ’60s gave a lot of
character to Washington and
Lee. The faculty and administra-
tion really want to see more
Jewish students here, because
they remember how beneficial
they were to the school.”’

It can be lonely to be Jewish
at W&L. ‘‘Because there’s no
synagogue in Lexington, it real-
ly helps us to be united,’’ Brown
says. ‘‘When you’re away from
home, a lot of the history, tradi-
tion, and identity start to slip
away. Hillel will help to preserve
them.’’

Though the organization is
still in its formative stages,
Brown and the other officers
have already made ambitious
plans for the remainder of the
school year. They have begun
working with Jewish children in
the Lexington area to teach them
about holidays such as Succot
(the Feast of Tabernacles),
Channukah (the Feast of
Lights), and Purim (the Feast of
Lots). They also attend monthly
Shabbath dinners with members
of the faculty and community.

At Tu Bi’Shevat, the Jewish
arbor day, they hope to plant
trees, shrubs, and flowers on the
campus. And they will par-
ticipate in observances during the
high holy days of Rosh
Hashanah (the New Year) and
Yom Kippur (the Day of Atone-
ment), as well as having seders
during Passover.

The activities of Hillel will
build on programs and resources
already in existence at
Washington and Lee. One of the
most valuable of those is the
Max and Sylvia Weinstein
Scholarship, which was started
in 1985 by Judge and Mrs. Paul
H. Weinstein, ’55, of Bethesda,
Md. This fully endowed scholar-
ship provides a full-tuition grant
to entering students with strong
academic records who
demonstrate an interest in the
study of Judaism and/or in-
volvement in Jewish communi-
ty activities.

In addition, the Judaic Studies
Lecture Series has brought rab-
bis, political science professors,
and the director of the Religious
Action Center in Washington,
D.C., to the W&L campus. The
topics of their lectures have
ranged from Biblical Judaism to
Jewish mysticism. The religion
department also offers five
courses in Jewish history,
religion, and literature.

Brown hopes Hillel will be
another important component in
the programs available for
Jewish students. ‘‘I’ve talked to
a number of students who are
Jewish but who know nothing
about their heritage,’’ he says.
**Hillel is helping them to learn
about their heritage for the very
first time in their lives.’’

During Alumni Reunion
Weekend (May 10-12), the
members of Hillel will hold a
reception for returning Jewish
alumni. Anyone who would like
more information, or who would
like to be placed on Hillel’s mail-
ing list, should contact Douglas
B. Brown, PO Box 4425, Lex-
ington, Va. 24450.

W&L 29

 

 

Three Washington and Lee
alumni and one member of the
faculty were tapped for honorary
membership into Omicron Delta
Kappa during the Founders’ Day
convocation Jan. 19.

James W. Head IIl, ’64;
Thomas P. Rideout, ’63; Mer-
vyn F. Silverman, ’60; and
Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology, were named to the
national leadership fraternity
which was founded at W&L in
1914.

A planetary geologist, Head
worked with the Apollo program

 

30 W&L

of NASA from 1968 to 1972 and
participated in the selection and
study of landing sites for Apollo
astronauts and astronaut
geologic training. He has also
served as interim director of the
Lunar Science Institute in
Houston and as a visiting scien-
tist at the Lunar and Planetary
Institute in the Space Shuttle
Astronaut Training Program.
He has taught geological studies
at Brown University since 1973.

Rideout is executive director
of the Bank Capital Markets
Association in Washington,

W&L wins awards from CASE District III

W&L, The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee, won
awards in two categories in a recent competition sponsored by the
Council for the Advancement and Support of Education.

An article titled ‘‘Nicknames, Cats, and Catsup Bottles,’’ by
Mary P. Coulling, won a grand award from CASE’s District III.
The article was published in the winter 1989 issue of the magazine
and dealt with Robert E. Lee’s family life.

Receiving a special merit award from CASE District III was
University photographer W. Patrick Hinely, ’73. The winning
photograph was of O. W. ‘‘Tom’’ Riegel, emeritus professor of jour-
nalism. It appeared in the spring 1989 issue of the magazine.

 

The honorary initiates into Omicron Delta Kappa are, from left, James Head, Mervyn Silverman, Leonard Jarrard, and Thomas Rideout.

Head, Rideout, Silverman, Jarrard tapped as honorary members in ODK

D.C. In 1988-89 he served as
president of the American
Bankers Association and was the
chief spokesman for the
American banking industry. He
is also a member of the advisory
board for W&L’s School of
Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

Silverman is president of the
American Foundation for AIDS
Research, the only privately
funded AIDS research organiza-
tion in the country. From 1977
to 1985 he was director of health
for the city and county of San

Clausen joins
library staff

 

Francisco. Since 1985 he has
been president of the Mervyn F.
Silverman Foundation Inc., a
health-care consulting firm.

Jarrard joined the W&L facul-
ty in 1959. For the past 20 years,
he has received continuous fund-
ing from the National Science
Foundation for his research on
the brain. In 1987, he was one of
13 faculty members from public
and private colleges and univer-
sities in Virginia to receive an
Outstanding Faculty Award
from the Virginia Council of
Higher Education.

Sara J. Clausen has been ap-
pointed reference librarian and
assistant professor of library
science at Washington and Lee.
She assumed the post in January.

She received a master’s degree
in library and information
science from the University of
Texas at Austin. She also holds
a doctorate in religion from
Vanderbilt University and a
master’s degree in history from
the University of Washington.

From 1982 to 1986 she was a
member of the staff of the
Vanderbilt Divinity Library.

 

——————

 

 

—

Millon receives
NEH fellowship

David K. Millon, assistant
professor of law at Washington
and Lee, has received a National
Endowment for the Humanities
Fellowship for University
Teachers for the 1990-91
academic year.

He is the third Washington
and Lee professor in four years
to receive an NEH research
grant. Edwin D. Craun, pro-
fessor of English, and Harlan R.
Beckley, professor of religion,
have both received the grants
since 1986.

‘*This prestigious award
reflects very highly on David’s
accomplishments as a scholar
and a teacher, and on the
strength of the Washington and
Lee School of Law,”’ said Ran-
dall P. Bezanson, dean of the
law school, when the award was
announced. ‘‘It is very uncom-
mon for a young faculty member
in the field of law to receive such
a high honor.”’

The NEH grants support in-
dependent study projects in the
humanities. The title of Millon’s
project is ‘‘From Communal
Justice to Common Law: The
Origins of Modern Legal
Theory.’’ He plans to spend the
academic year conducting
research at England’s Cambridge
University.

Millon’s project is a study of
the origins of modern legal
theory, which he defines as ‘‘the
conception of law as a body of
general rules articulated by
agents of the state and intended
to be applied by judges in an im-
personal, predictable manner.”’

He has argued that the
premodern (i.e., pre-16th cen-
tury) common law system lacked
‘a Commitment to consistent ap-
plication of officially mandated
legal rules, according broad
discretion to juries to decide
disputes according to locally
defined attitudes and communal
Values.

Millon joined the W&L facul-
ty in 1986.

Journalism fellowship created to memorialize Todd Smith, ’83

The Tampa Tribune and the
family and friends of Todd C.
Smith, ’83, a Tribune reporter
who died in November, have
established a fellowship in his
memory at Washington and Lee.

Smith was killed by terrorists
in Uchiza, Peru, on Nov. 21,
1989, while investigating drug
trafficking. (Smith’s obituary
appears in the ‘‘In Memoriam”’
section on page 53.)

To date, more than 380 donors
have made gifts in excess of
$37,000 toward the Todd C.
Smith Memorial Fellowship
Fund, which is designed to help
aspiring journalists at
Washington and Lee become
foreign correspondents by pro-
viding a stipend for travel and
study in the country of their
choice.

 

The fellowship is open to any
rising junior or senior enrolled at
W&L. The student’s research
should focus on a topic of cur-
rent interest and is expected to
result in publishable journalistic
work. The Tampa Tribune will
consider the resulting articles for
publication.

A committee, selected by the

head of the W&L journalism
department, will administer the
fellowship and make the annual
selection of the fellow. It will
also award a specific stipend
designed to cover all necessary
travel, food, lodging, and educa-
tional expenses.

*‘This fund attempts to pro-
vide a W&L student with an un-
paralleled chance to learn about
a foreign culture and how to
report on it,’’ said Hampden H.
Smith, head of W&L’s jour-
nalism department. ‘‘I can’t
think of a more appropriate
memorial to Todd Smith.’’

More information about the
Smith fellowship may be ob-
tained by contacting the W&L
Development Office at (703)
463-8410, or the department of
journalism at (703) 463-8432.

 

Henry Ward Beecher:

—____ The Bookshelf

Furors Die

 

 

Peripatetic Preacher

By Halford Ryan, Professor of Public

Speaking
(Greenwood Press)

Beecher, the 19th-century orator-preacher,
was best known for his early anti-slavery ser-
mons and for his defense of the Union before
British audiences during the Civil War.

He was also the leading Christian apologist
for Darwinism in the 1880s. He preached for
40 years, from 1847 to 1887, at the Plymouth
Church in Brooklyn.

Ryan did his research for the book at Yale
University under the auspices of a Washington
and Lee Glenn grant.

He joined the W&L faculty in 1970. This
is his eighth book.

By William Hoffman, ’53
(Louisiana State University Press)

This novel is the tale of two native West
Virginians—Wylie Duval, the son of wealthy
parents, and Amos ‘‘Pinky’’ Cody, whose
family is dirt-poor.

The book traces the interconnections of
their lives, as both grow up, attend college,
and ultimately confront difficult moral choices
associated with money, greed, and power.

**William Hoffman shows again his expert
hand at narrative detail, pace, and momen-
tum, and his unusual gift for invention and
surprise,’” W&L English Professor W. Dabney
Stuart says of Furors Die. ‘‘An altogether
satisfying book.”’

 

 

W&L

31

 

 

 

Alumni News

 

 

Saturday Seminars
launched in three cities

Washington and Lee’s Office
of Special Programs, in col-
laboration with the Alumni Of-
fice, has established a new series
of educational programs for
alumni chapters.

**Saturday Seminars’’ are an
extension of the W&L Alumni
College and its mission to pro-
mote and assure a ‘‘continuing
intellectual relationship between
alumni and the University.’’ The
seminars bring together Wash-
ington and Lee faculty and
alumni participants for a day of
learning and discussion of time-
ly subjects.

The first of these seminars,
called ‘‘World War II and Its
Legacy,’’ was held in Baltimore
in November. W&L faculty John
Handelman, Roger Jeans, and
Barry Machado joined former
NBC News correspondent Lloyd
Dobyns, °57, to examine the
social, cultural, and political
legacy of the war.

The second seminar dealt with
the topic ‘‘The New Metropolis:
Challenge and Change in Urban
Atlanta,’’ and was held, ap-
propriately, at that city’s High
Museum in February. Leading
the discussion were W&L facul-
ty David Novack and Roberta
Senechal and two alumni
participants—J. Donald Chil-
dress, ’70, managing partner of
Childress Klein Properties, and
William B. Hill, ’74, ’77L, senior
assistant attorney general for the
state of Georgia.

**Soviet-American Relations
in an Erd of Change’’ will be the
subject of a third seminar, set for
April 21 at the Bellevue Hotel in
Philadelphia. It will feature
W&L professors’ Richard
Bidlack, Lamar Cecil, and Craig
McCaughrin.

**The alumni chapter seminars
represent an exciting new venture

for us in the Alumni College,”’
says Rob Fure, director of
special programs at W&L. ‘‘We
have been greatly encouraged by
the popularity of our alumni col-
leges and alumni colleges
abroad, and we’re pleased to
make it possible for alumni,
parents, and friends to take ad-
vantage of W&L educational
programming that is closer to
home.’’

More Saturday seminars are
planned for the future.

Chapters observe
Lee’s birthday

From north to south, east to
west, Washington and Lee
alumni celebrated Robert E.
Lee’s birthday in splendid
fashion this year.

One of the most talked-about
events occurred in Washington,
D.C., where several hundred
W&L graduates gathered at the
Swiss Embassy. During the
event, the last portrait painted of eS Mt
Lee during his lifetime was ex- iN ea

;
}
;
:
"
meat
;
;
: tees
1}
*
; ;
. ‘
'
f 0
,
:
‘
:
htt
fghie
.
;
:
;
:
z :
’
: os itt}
’ Sete
Heise
; *
‘
itt E
’
iste
‘ +7
;
‘ *

—e
== 22>
>
oo. os

 

 
    

aE

(Above)Hosts Bo DuBose, ’62, and Eileen DuBose stand with chapter president Don Childress, ’70, and
Jill Childress at the Lee birthday party in Atlanta; (below) gathering for a reception in Jacksonville are
Ross Haine, ’88L, Liz Murtagh, ’89L, chapter president Darby Brower, ’85, Robert Duchemin, ’87L, Bill
Birchfield, ’89, and chapter treasurer Ty York, ’78.

 

32 W&L

 

 

 

 

Alumni News

 

 

hibited for the first time in the
United States.

The painting, by Swiss artist
Frank Buchser, has an unusual
history. According to Charles
Bracelen Flood, the author of
Lee: The Last Years, Buchser
was commissioned by a group of
Swiss liberals, who wanted a
painting to celebrate the Union
victory in the Civil War. But
since Gen. Ulysses S. Grant
refused to sit for a portrait,
Buchser decided to do a likeness
of Lee instead.

For three weeks, Lee sat for
Buchser as his schedule permit-
ted. ‘‘What a gentle, noble soul,
how kind and charming the old
white-haired warrior is,’’
Buchser wrote in his diary.

The artist left Lexington with
the completed painting and
returned to Switzerland, where
he claimed that Lee was ‘‘the
ideal of American democracy.
Therefore, of all my American
portraits, the one of Lee is the
perfect picture to hang in the
democratic Swiss parliament.’’

 

he |

 

WINSTON-SALEM—President Wilson and John Robinson, ’72, a member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
‘ors, present the Small Chapter of the Year Award to chapter president John Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L.

 

% cae

 

Buchser’s patrons were less
enthusiastic, and they refused to
pay him. Nonetheless, the paint-
ing is now considered to be his
finest portrait, and it was on
display in the Swiss National
Museum until Ambassador
Edouard Brunner arranged for it
to be permanently loaned to the
Swiss Embassy in Washington.

Throughout the nation, other
Washington and Lee alumni
celebrated the birthday of ‘‘the
ideal of American democracy.”’
Among the chapters which
observed Lee’s birthday were
Louisville, Houston, Jackson-
ville, Dallas, New Orleans,
Tidewater, Atlanta, Keystone,
Middle Tennessee, Peninsula,

San Diego, Rockbridge, South’

Carolina Piedmont, Southern
Ohio, West Texas, Tucson, and
Delaware.

Winston-Salem, Tampa
named chapters of year

Two Washington and Lee
alumni chapters were honored
this winter for their outstanding
programs and level of alumni
participation.

In November, Winston-Salem
received the Small Chapter of the
Year Award during a dinner at
Salem College. A few months
later, in February, Florida West
Coast was given the Large
Chapter of the Year Award dur-
ing a ceremony at the Universi-
ty Club of Tampa.

- Both award presentations
were made by W&L President
John D. Wilson.

Other chapter events

Ever the supportive fans, the
Keystone, Philadelphia, and
Washington, D.C., chapters
gathered to cheer for the
Generals during football games
in their areas this fall.

W&L

 

33

 

 

34

 

o064028200028742003°

=

2 ,
of |

B a

ee
2

ia

Lg

Alumni News

 

WEST TEXAS—Gathered at the Petroleum Club of Abilene for their annual Lee’s birthday dinner are (standing) chapter president Jamie Small,

 

’81, Steve Suttle, ’62, Willis Johnson, ’51, E. E. Hall, ’31, Nelle Hudson, Ike Hudson, ’32, George Minter, ’31, Grace Laskey, and Dick Laskey,
’57; and (seated) Allison Weir, Rosemary Suttle, Terry Hall, and Mary Minter.

Members of the Washington
and Lee faculty and administra-
tion visited chapters throughout
the country during the fall and
winter months. President John
D. Wilson was the special guest
at a reception in Montgomery.
Kimberly Patrick Pitman, one of
the University’s admissions
counselors, attended a reception
for prospective students in New
Orleans, while James D. Farrar
Jr., ’74, associate alumni direc-

tor, met with alumni in Central
Florida and Jacksonville.

Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, vice
president for University rela-
tions, traveled to Phoenix, and
Randall P. Bezanson, dean of
the School of Law, was the
special guest at functions in
Eastern Kentucky and Tide-
water.

The Atlanta chapter heard a
talk by Professor Lamar Cecil in
February. Meanwhile Mike

Walsh, W&L’s new athletic
director, and Jim Stagnitta, the
new coach of the men’s lacrosse
team, met alumni in Baltimore.
James W. Whitehead, director
of W&L’s Reeves Center, at-
tended a reception given by the
San Francisco Bay chapter.
Members of the Long Island,
New York, Westchester-Fair-
field, Northern New Jersey,
Charlotte, Detroit/Southern
Michigan, Richmond, Chicago,

and San Diego chapters met with
graduates of other Virginia
schools for parties during the
winter. The Tidewater chapter
convened its annual oyster roast,
while Dallas alumni sought to
begin a tradition with their first
invitational golf tournament.
In Northwest Louisiana,
alumni gathered for a Christmas-
New Year’s party during the
week between the two holidays.

 

On Feb. 21, 1990, the Spectrum Publishing Co. of Jermyn, Pa., mailed to each

New chapter presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:
Chicago—Hannes Van Wagenberg, ’74;
Detroit—R. K. Barton, ’63;

Washington, D.C.—Eric T. Myers, ’82;
Dallas—James L. Baldwin, ’83;
Sarasota—D. Scott Adams, ’86;

Los Angeles—David J. McLean, ’78;
West Texas—James R. Small, 81;
Southern Ohio—Theodore D. Grosser, ’77L;
Keystone—Richard J. Pierce, ’87;
Atlanta—J. Thad Ellis, ’82.

W&L

 

living Washington and Lee alumnus or alumna for whom a mailing address could be
found a directory questionnaire requesting updated biographical data. We ask for the
cooperation of all alumni as the Alumni Office embarks on this important project.
Please complete and return your questionnaire promptly. The information provided
by alumni will be used to update alumni records. Telephone verification will be con-
ducted as a follow-up, at which time alumni will be asked if they wish to purchase
a copy of the directory.

The entire directory project will be undertaken at virtually no cost to Washington
and Lee. The Spectrum Publishing Co. will finance the project through the sale of direc-
tories to alumni. The University will not benefit financially from the directory sales
but will derive substantial benefit from the updated alumni records.

Alumni who do not return the questionnaire and whom Spectrum representatives
are unable to reach by telephone will be listed in the directory with the addresses
provided by alumni records at the time of the book’s publishing. Anyone who does
not receive a questionnaire or who does not wish to appear in the directory should
notify the Alumni Office in writing.

Thank you for your cooperation!

 

 

 

 

Alumni News

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Clockwise from left: Young
alumni in Washington, D.C.,
gather at a tailgate party
prior to the Generals’ victory
over Georgetown; Andy Put-
nam, °87, Bob Bohan, ’59,
and Ann Bohan attend a
Southern Ohio chapter recep-
tion; David Carothers, ’61,
Jim Gwinn, ’62, Andy
Carothers, 65, and Byrd
Gwinn, ’65, assemble in
Dallas; and assistant alumni
director Jim Farrar Jr., ’74,
presents to John Robinson,
72, former president of the
Florida West Coast chapter, a
certificate recognizing his
leadership in the Tampa area.

—

 

Members of the Orange Coun-
ty, Los Angeles, and San Diego
chapters attend a wine-tasting
party in Newport Beach.

 

W&L 35

 

 

 

 

An open letter to alumni

Dear alumnus or alumna:

As you are aware, Richard B. Sessoms, who is currently
director of alumni programs, will move to the Development Of-
fice as director of major gifts to assist Washington and Lee in
the very important role of ensuring strong financial support for
Washington and Lee’s future. Additionally, James D. Farrar
Jr., who is associate director of alumni programs, will become

the director of alumni programs for the University in July 1990.

We have been blessed to have had the strong and loyal support
of Dick Sessoms since 1983. We are additionally very blessed to
have the great talent of Jim Farrar to continue the broad suc-
cess of the alumni programs at Washington and Lee.

I wanted to take this opportunity to reiterate to you the
broad range of alumni programs that have been developed at
Washington and Lee over the last seven years and to provide
you with the focus of what we anticipate seeing as alumni in
the coming years.

Under the guidance of Dick Sessoms, the Alumni Associa-
tion has seen the creation of 14 new alumni chapters and more
than double the previous activities in all 86 of our chapters.
Moreover, Dick has overseen the creation of the Athletic Hall
of Fame, the creation of the Chapter of the Year Awards, the
development of the Alumni Career Assistance Program, the
creation of Kathekon (a student-alumni campus organization),
the creation of the Alumni Fraternity Council, the creation of

 

Alumni News

 

competitive reunion trophies and bowls, the Five-Star Generals’
reunion program, refurnishing and redecoration of the Alumni
House, the creation of the Minority Student/Alumni Con-
ference, and the extension of the Alumni College Saturday
seminars in various alumni chapters. We wish Dick the best of
success while continuing to devote his energies toward the sup-
port of Washington and Lee.

During the decade of the ’90s your Alumni Association will
be actively seeking to develop a sense of class unity among cur-
rent students, to incorporate all members of the Alumni
Association into the myriad of activities available, and to bring
Washington and Lee to all its geographically widespread
alumni. With more than 17,000 alumni, the University realizes
that a strong chapter program is necessary to keep alumni up-
to-date with the progress of the University. Indeed, this decade
will see an increase in activities on campus and a major capital
campaign fund, but the genesis of alumni involvement will
revolve around alumni chapter activities such as seminars,
videotape presentations, regional events, and possibly event
coverage from Lexington via cable.

Jim has great plans in store to energize and bring all alumni
together in support of the University. The Alumni Board of
Directors and the Alumni Office are dedicated to increasing
those activities which will enrich the lives of all alumni.

On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish the greatest suc-
cess to Dick and Jim in their exciting positions.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L

President, Washington and Lee Alumni Association

 

 

 

Ke

 

36 =—$W&L

 

WASHINGTON, D.C.—At left, Mrs. Brunner, Ambassador Edouard Brun-
ner, Josephine R. Powell, Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, ’31L, Carew C.
Lee, and Robert E. Lee IV, ’49, gather beneath the Buchser portrait of Lee;
above, President John D. Wilson (center) listens to Ambassador Brunner, the
host for the Lee birthday reception. (Photos by Scott Ferrell, ’87)

 

 

-

= See mene
ae ah tan

ee Boa
eee

c Ly ad is io
Sar py TION:

‘<5 as
Be od ;
; +
at ee -
pie ai

Se
oa ass ain ot dns

 

i ETA. .

 

Larry Pilkey looks to finish off his semifinal opponent in the W&L Invitational. Pilkey, who wrestles at 134 pounds, was a finalist at the meet.

Generals’ Report/from page 20

But after the holiday break, misfor-
tune struck the Generals in the form of
a tiny crack in the third metatarsal of
starting forward Ed Hart’s left foot.
Hart, W&L’s second-leading scorer and
rebounder the last two years, suffered
a stress fracture the first weekend of
January and ended up missing 14 games
during the meat of the season.

The Generals spent the next five
weeks trying to find the right combina-
tion of players to fill the void left by
Hart. W&L went 7-7 with Hart out of
uniform, and slipped from being one of
the ODAC frontrunners to struggling
for a home-court advantage in the open-
ing round of the conference tour-
nament.

The Generals lost that fight, but
what a battle it was. Twice in the final
four weeks of the season, W&L went on
the road, fell behind by double digits in
the second half, and came back to take
the lead only to lose in the final seconds.
The Generals ended up losing six of their
final eight conference games. The same
team that lost only twice in league play
the year before finished at .500 for the
regular season.

Junior big man Chris Jacobs, an
honorable mention Division III All-
American in 1989, did what he could to
Carry the Generals. Jacobs led the team

in scoring for the second year in a row
and was an AlIl-ODAC and all-region
selection, as well. His first basket in a
mid-season win over Queens College put
the junior over the 1,000-point mark for
his career. Jacobs finished the year with
1,238 career points, placing him 12th on
W&L’s all-time scoring list with a season
to go.

And what problems Jacobs couldn’t
solve with his inside game, classmate
Mike Holton tried to tackle from the
outside. Holton, who in March was
named to the College Division Academic
All-America team for the second year in
a row, made 52 three-pointers during the
year. He hit five treys in leading W&L
to a school-record 12 three-pointers in
a win over St. Vincent in the champion-
ship game of the W&L/Bank of
Rockbridge Invitational.

That championship was one of the
last rays of sunshine in the season.
Following the win over St. Vincent,
W&L beat only one team with a winning
record during the rest of the regular
season. The tumble left the Generals on
the outside looking in as the top teams
in the ODAC jockeyed for position in
the conference tournament. When the
dust settled, W&L was staring at a first-
round pairing with rival Hampden-
Sydney.

It had all the makings of a no-win

situation for W&L. Not only were the
Generals forced to travel to Farmville
instead of beginning February break like
most W&L students; they also had to
face a team that had handed them a
20-point loss in their last meeting.
Rather than giving up, however, the
Generals gave their best performance of
the season. Hart, who had returned to
the lineup four games earlier, grabbed
eight rebounds and Jacobs scored 20
points to pace the Generals to a 77-63
win over the Tigers and a spot in the
ODAC semifinals.

The dream lasted only half a game
more, though. W&L fell in the semi-
finals to eventual champion Randolph-
Macon and ended the season at 15-12.
It was not the final record many had en-
visioned, but with every player return-
ing to the roster next year, W&L will
have another chance to meet those
expectations.

Swimming

Five W&L swimmers earned All-
America standing, two were named
Swimmer-of-the- Year in their respective
conferences, and the women’s team won
its third straight conference cham-
pionship.

It was another textbook year for
Washington and Lee swimming on the
surface, but underneath it was a year of

W&L 37

ups and downs. Leading the story from
the start was sophomore Jay Smith, who
went through the regular season without
losing a single individual race. Smith,
named Atlantic States Conference
Swimmer of the Year at season’s end,
won all 30 of his regular-season swims
in the 50- and 100-yard freestyle and the
100-yard backstroke, and he qualified
for the Division III nationals in the sec-
ond week of the season.

The men finished with an 8-5 record
and won nearly every meet they were
supposed to before finishing third at the
Atlantic States Championships.
Sophomore Chip Nordhoff finished the
season strong by qualifying for nationals
in three events at the ASC Champion-
ships, and he and Smith, along with
sophomore Doug Brown and junior Jim
Dunlevy, filled out W&L’s freestyle
relay team that competed at nationals,
as well.

Missing from the post-season
festivities was last year’s national cham-

pion David Olson, who was forced out
of action by an elbow injury in
December and was unable to add to his
cache of 12 All-America plaques.

At nationals, Smith’s winning streak
came to an end, but a seventh-place
finish in the 100-yard backstroke earned
him All-America honors. Nordhoff was
named an honorable mention All-
American in the 200-yard freestyle and
the 200-yard backstroke, and the relay
team also achieved that honor in the
200-, 400-, and 800-yard freestyle relays.

The women continued to establish
themselves as one of the region’s domi-
nant forces, winning ODAC title No. 3.
But only one woman made it to
nationals—the unflappable Claire
Dudley, who qualified for the cham-
pionship meet in mid-season and was

ranked among the top 10 in her events

at various times. The freshman class had
another star in Stephanie Sauers, who
along with Dudley was a double winner
in four meets. Both Sauers and junior

 

Basketball (15-12)

W&L 102, Methodist 88

W&L 97, Salisbury State 87
Emory 72, W&L 67

W&L 76, Hampden-Sydney 67
Randolph-Macon 71, W&L 63
W&L 99, Lynchburg 81

W&L 87, Bridgewater 66

W&L 85, Clarkson 63

W&L 93, St. Vincent 89
Bridgewater 67, W&L 66

W&L 84, Roanoke 75

W&L 81, Virginia Wesleyan 59
W&L 72, Eastern Mennonite 68
Randolph-Macon 59, W&L 47
W&L 87, Queens 84 (OT)
Hampden-Sydney 83, W&L 63
Emory & Henry 84, W&L 68
W&L 79, Lynchburg 67
Guilford 95, W&L 80

Emory & Henry 80, W&L 77
Virginia Wesleyan 67, W&L 59
W&L 84, Mary Washington 69
Roanoke 86, W&L 83

WA&L 85, Eastern Mennonite 80 (OT)
Rhodes 80, W&L 67

W&L 77, Hampden-Sydney 63
Randolph-Macon 75, W&L 64

Women’s Swimming (5-8)

W&L 143, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 31
Trenton State 115, W&L 71

Ithaca 119, W&L 67

Johns Hopkins 115, W&L 83

W&L 159, Sweet Briar 103

WA&L 181, Hollins 81

 

WINTER SPORTS SCOREBOARD

Shippensburg 104, W&L 100
Charleston 115, W&L 98
Georgetown 110.5, W&L 92.5

W&L 56, Shepherd 28

Gettysburg 130, W&L 65

W&L 114, Radford 87

Mary Washington 110, W&L 94

Ist at ODAC Championships

3rd at Atlantic States Championships

Men’s Swimming (8-5)

W&L 128, VMI 72

W&L 108, Ithaca 78

W&L 106, Ithaca 77

Ithaca 104, W&L 100

W&L 112, Johns Hopkins 87
William and Mary 134, W&L 100
Shippensburg 111, W&L 72
W&L 101, Charleston 91
Georgetown 117, W&L 82

W&L 54, Shepherd 41
Gettysburg 105, W&L 96

W&L 107, Radford 53

W&L 101, Mary Washington 98
3rd at Atlantic States Championships

Wrestling (2-3)

15th at Flying Dutchmen Invitational
W&L 36, Davidson 15

Furman 39, W&L 9

12th at Newport News Apprentice Invit.
Sth at W&L Invitational

W&L 38, Gallaudet 16

Washington & Jefferson 28, W&L 15
Sth at Virginia College Championships
Longwood 30, W&L 18

 

 

38 —- W&L

 

 

 

 

Sharon Coleman, a 1989 All-American,
just missed out on their qualifying at-
tempts prior to nationals, but Dudley
kept good the W&L name with a 12th-
place finish in the 100-yard breaststroke
at the national championships, earning
her All-America honors. She was the
third W&L female swimmer in five years
named to All-American status.

Wrestling

W&L made its way through a
rebuilding year with an occasional bright
spot or two and some renewed hope for
the future. Though the Generals fin-
ished 2-3 and failed to win a match at

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jay Smith, who helped W&L’s relay team to three top-16 finishes at nationals, anchors the 400-meter relay in a dual meet with Johns Hopkins.

Eastern Regionals, head coach Gary
Franke could point proudly to the prog-
ress of his young team, especially his
seven freshmen.

‘I thought we got some good ex-
perience this season,’’ Franke said after
his 17th season in Lexington. ‘‘We ran
into some pretty tough competition.
Overall on the season, I think we had
sOme improvement during the year. I
think we have a good nucleus coming
back for next year.”

Leading the pack of first-year per-
formers was 118-pounder Rich Paini,
Who finished the year with a 6-4 record
and was tied for the lead with classmate
Ryland Scott with four pins. The

Generals put together a strong run at
mid-season, finishing fifth against a
tough field at the W&L Invitational and
then coming back the next week to
defeat Gallaudet, a team that had fin-
ished ahead of them at the W&L
Invitational.

Returning veterans Larry Pilkey and
Peer Soderberg added experience and
talent to Franke’s young team. Pilkey,
who wrestled at 126 pounds, finished
with a 13-10 record and led the team in
takedowns, escapes, and reversals, while
Soderberg, W&L’s 167-pounder, had an
11-9 record. Pilkey and Soderberg both
took home second places at the Virginia
College Championships.

Indoor Track

For the first time since 1983, W&L
did not win the ODAC indoor track
championships. It took a _ record-
breaking performance from Lynchburg
to lock the Generals out of their shot at
a seventh ODAC indoor title.

But a multitalented junior, Carl
Gilbert, was able to soften some of the
blow. Gilbert was named the ODAC In-
door Track Performer of the Year and
went on to compete at the NCAA Divi-
sion III indoor track championships in
early March. He finished seventh in the
nation in the triple jump, missing All-
America status by just one place.

W&L 39

CHARLES W. COCKE is develop-

ing a Disabled Veterans’ Chapter in
Thomasville, Ga. He is vice commander of
American Legion Post 31 and a member of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Associa-
tion of Retired Federal Employees, and the
Chamber of Commerce.

In April 1989 WILLIAM D. HOYT

published a book of photographs ti-
tled Valley Views: Lexington & Rockbridge Coun-
ty, 1924-1940. Hoyt continues to work as a
member of the Conservation Commission and as
director of the Historic District Commission in
Rockport, Mass.

DR. GEORGE W. PEDIGO JR. is

retired from the active practice of
medicine in Louisville, Ky. He is a professor
emeritus at the University of Louisville Medical
School and is a member of the board of overseers
at the university.

FREDERICK D. STRONG is

treasurer and a director of Citizens
Opposed to Domestic Abuse, a shelter for abused
wives and their children. The Burton, S.C., resi-
dent also acts as vice president and a director of
the Beaufort, S.C., area Caregivers Support
Group, which helps caregivers of victims of
Alzheimer’s disease.

CHARLES F. CLARKE JR. still ac-

tively practices law as a partner at
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey in Cleveland. He has
been with the firm since 1946.

SAMUEL G. JONES JR. is president
of Berkley Machine Works and
Foundry Co. He lives in Norfolk, Va.

, 4 0 May 10-12

Retired attorney T. KENNEDY HELM JR. is the
author of Kentucky Airport Law & Management,
which was published in October 1989. Helm lives
in Louisville, Ky.

Having retired from the University of

Delaware, THOMAS W. BROCK-
ENBROUGH stays busy as a national director of
the American Society of Civil Engineers and as a
consultant to the National Council for Engineer-
ing Examinations. He makes his home in Newark,
Del.

FREDERIC B. FARRAR recently retired from the
journalism faculty at Temple University’s School
of Communications and Theater. He was granted
emeritus status and was honored by a scholarship
established in his name to be awarded annually to
an advertising major. He lives in Cherry Hill, N.J.

Although he is retired, ROBERT C. PETREY re-
mains active in civic and political affairs. In 1989
he was reelected to another four-year term as alder-
man of the City of Kingsport, Tenn.

40 W&L

T. KENNEDY HELM JR. (See ’40).

R. FRANCIS JOHNSON retired in

June as dean of the faculty and pro-
fessor of religious studies at Connecticut College.
During May commencement exercises he received
the Connecticut College Medal, which is given to
alumni and friends for distinguished contributions
to the institution. The college faculty also renamed
its research and travel fund in his honor and
created an award in his name for the best student
scholarship done annually in the field of religious
studies. He now serves as an on-call assistant in
the day-care center of an independent social ser-
vice agency.

A. LINWOOD HOLTON, who

served as governor of Virginia from
1970 to 1974, received the 1989 Thomas Jeffer-
son Award for Public Service from the Old Domi-
nion Chapter of the Public Relations Society of
America. Holton was honored, the society’s presi-
dent said, because his ‘‘efforts on behalf of bet-
ter race relations, improved educational oppor-
tunities, and economic growth for every Virginian
challenge us all to continue the Commonwealth’s
rich tradition of business, political, and civic
leadership for the betterment of generations to
come.’’ Past recipients of the award include Leslie
Cheek Jr., Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., ’29, ’31L,
and Frances and Sydney Lewis, ’40, ’43L.

WILLIAM W. GRAHAM III is

recovering well after being number 17
of 18 participants in an experimental adrenal brain
transplant program at Vanderbilt University
Hospital. He lives in Bel Air, Md.

JAMES T. GRAYBEAL retired in June 1989 after
37 years with the State Farm Insurance Co. He
and his wife, Priscilla, live in Virginia Beach.

WILLIAM E. LATTURE is president of the
Greensboro (N.C.) Historical Museum. He lives
in Greensboro with his wife, Louise.

' 7 0 May 10-12

GERARD A. BURCHELL plans to retire in June
from his job teaching biology at Spaulding High
School in Rochester, N.H.

DR. JOHN S. CHAPMAN received the laureate
award from the American College of Physicians
for 1989. He practices with Dodge Street Internists
in Dubuque, Iowa.

In December WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS II
received the Distinguished Alumnus Award from
the St. Paul’s School Alumni Association in
Brooklandville, Md. He is president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of the Summers Fuel Co. and a
director of Power Inc. Coal Mining in Philipsburg,
Pa. He and his wife, Jane, live in Towson, Md.

The former legislative director for a conservative
grassroots organization, THOMAS E. COX is
now policy analyst for Latin American affairs at
The Heritage Foundation, a Washington, D.C.,

think tank. He examines political developments
in Mexico and Nicaragua, U.S.-Latin American
economic issues, and U.S. national security in-
terests in Central America.

JOSEPH N. MOFFATT has been named special
assistant to the public information officer at
Virginia Military Institute. Moffatt served as a
public relations manager for Reynolds Metals Co.
for more than 20 years before retiring in 1987 and
moving to Lexington.

HOWARD L. STEELE is the director of technical
assistance in the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
office of international cooperation and develop-
ment. Though he recently spent several weeks in
Kenya and the Yemen Arab Republic, Steele makes
his permanent home in Fairfax, Va.

GERRY U. STEPHENS recently retired as ex-
ecutive vice president of the American National
Bank in Chattanooga, Tenn., and now serves the
bank as a consultant. He is a trustee of King Col-
lege in Bristol, Tenn., a member of the president’s
advisory council at Trinity Evangelical Divinity
School in Deerfield, Ill., and an elder in the
Presbyterian Church.

LUTHER B. WANNAMAKER JR. was named
Seedsman of the Year at the 52nd annual conven-
tion of the South Carolina Seedsmen’s Associa-
tion. He is president of L. B. Wannamaker Seed
Co. in St. Matthews, S.C.

MARVIN C. BOWLING JR. has

been elected president and chief
operating officer of Lawyers Title Insurance Corp.
in Richmond.

JAMES T. GRAYBEAL (See 749).

SAMUEL B. HOLLIS, president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Federal Compress & Warehouse
Co., is chairman of the board of the Memphis
Food Bank, president of the Tennessee Business
Round Table, a board member of the United Way
of Greater Memphis, and a member of the
chancellor’s round table at the University of
Tennessee.

A portrait of JOHN O. MARSH, who served as
secretary of the U.S. Army from 1981 to 1989, was
unveiled at the Pentagon in February. Marsh held
the position longer than any Army secretary in
U.S. history. He plans to resume private law prac-
tice in Strasburg, Va.

WALTER E. MICHAELS has been named a head
coach in the new International League of
American Football. Michaels, the former New
York Jets head coach, will work in Helsinki,
Finland.

A. STEVENS MILES JR. has retired after 35
years with First Kentucky National Corp. He had
been chief executive officer since 1974. He will con-
tinue to serve on the board of directors of First
Kentucky. Miles lives in Louisville.

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS II (See
*50).

The former mayor of Terrace Park, Ohio,
CHARLES S. ROCKEL, has been elected to the

 

ee

i
q
;
i
s
’

il

board of directors of the University Club of Cin-
cinnati. He is president of Charles S. Rockel &
Sons food brokers.

In November JOHN L. S. NORTH-

ROP received the Outstanding
Volunteer Fund Raiser of the Year award from
the Western Pennsylvania chapter of the National
Society of Fund Raising Executives. Northrop,
who is president of Observer Publishing Co. in
Washington, Pa., was cited for his 25 years of
work with the United Way.

RUEL W. TYSON JR., professor of religious
studies at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, recently published two volumes,
Diversities of Gifts: Field Studies in Southern
Religion and Pilgrims of Paradox: Calvinism and
Experience among the Primitive Baptists of the
Blue Ridge. Tyson is director of UNC-Chapel
Hill’s Institute for the Arts and Humanities.

JOHN M. BLUME has been elected
president of the New Jersey chapter
of the American Board of Trial Advocates. He is
the founder and senior member of the Newark,
N.J., law firm of Blume, Vazquez, Goldfaden,
Berkowitz & Donnelly and lives in New York City.

J. ROBERT CROSS has been named controller
of C&P Telephone Co. of Virginia. He and his
wife, Linda, live in the suburbs of Richmond.

DANIEL D. DICKENSON is executive director
of Meadowood retirement community in
Worcester, Pa. He had been executive director of
Vicar’s Landing in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

: 5 5 May 10-12

RICHARD M. BUDD is the Northeast sales
representative for LTV Tubular Products Co. in
Youngstown, Ohio.

JOHN M. BLUME (See ’54).

GILBERT D. CORNELIUS’s first string quartet
will be premiered April 17 at Queens College by
the Krztoff Penderecki String Quartet of Poland.
Cornelius lives in Charlotte.

RONALD W. FAST of St. Charles, IIl., is the
editor of Advances in Cryogenic Engineering, the
proceedings of the 1989 Cryogenic Engineering
Conference held in Los Angeles. He is a physicist
with Fermilab in Batavia, II.

As vice president of the newly created

Weight Watchers Division, L. B.
(BUCK) BUCHANAN JR. directs the marketing
of all Heinz U.S.A. Weight Watchers products.
He had been vice president of the special products
division. He lives in Sewickley, Pa.

C. PETER LEININGER III is in his fifth year as
director of finance for Oil Dynamics Inc. in Tulsa,
Okla. The company manufactures electric submer-
sible pumping systems for the oil producing in-
dustry worldwide.

After 25 years with Bell Atlantic in the finance,
engineering, personnel, and data center operations,
THOMAS. O MOORE is “‘retiring.’’ He will begin
working with his brother, who is president of
Gaylord Brooks Realty Co. near Baltimore.

W. PHILIP LAUGHLIN relocated

last March from Milan, Italy, to
Singapore, where he is directing the expansion of
an Exxon refinery.

JOHN P. MOYER is sales vice president with
Wheat First/Butcher & Singer, a stock brokerage
firm in Youngstown, Ohio. He lives in Girard,
Ohio.

 

Gifts of Real Estate to Washington and Lee

Age of Donor 70
Market Value of Real Estate $100,000
Cost Basis of Real Estate $25,000
Income Rate 8%

Many donors have found a gift of Real Estate to be the ideal
way of accomplishing a major charitable goal. As with other
types of assets, you can make gifts of Real Estate through a varie-

ty of methods: iy . Annual Inc. (1st year) $8,000
1. Through outright gifts, resulting in your taking an income Charitable Deduction $41,622
tax deduction for the appraised value of the property and in- Actual Tax Savings (28% Bracket) $11,654

curring no capital gain tax on the appreciation you may have
experienced;

2. In an arrangement whereby you convey the property to
the University, while retaining the right to receive income from
it for the remainder of your life; and

3. In a Retained Life Estate whereby you give your home
or farm to W&L now, but continue to live in it for the rest of
your life.

Although the outright gift allows you to achieve your
charitable purpose almost immediately, you must also be able
to get along without the property. If you need to convert the
property to an income-producing asset or must retain posses-
sion for your lifetime, you still may be able to make a signifi-
cant gift and meet other goals as well.

W&L offers an arrangement known as a Net Income-Only
Unitrust that is ideal for conveying real estate to the Universi-
ty. The arrangement provides for a ‘‘breathing period” during

The other method of making a gift of real estate is truly a
case of having your cake and eating it too. It’s possible to give
an unencumbered personal home, vacation home, or farm to
W&L and receive a handsome tax deduction now, but reside
in that home for the rest of your life. Through this arrangement,
you remove the property from your estate and minimize estate
tax consequences for your heirs.

The tax deduction is a calculation based on the appraised
value of the property, your age, and the salvage value of the
depreciable portion (the dwelling) of the property. In a retain-
ed life estate, you continue to pay the taxes and retain respon-
sibility for the upkeep of the property.

As the example illustrates, this can be a most effective means
of enhancing your personal income and estate tax situation.

Age of Donor 70

. Market Value of Real Estate $100,000
which the Trustee (W&L or a bank) places the property on the Undepreciable Portion (land) $25,000
market and eventually sells it. During the breathing period, no Depreciable Portion (dwelling) $75,000
income is paid to you. However, the tax deduction you receive eae A a foe
from , bt ae ie ' alvage Value ’

making this gift is immediate. Charitable Deduction $34,195

in this case, the deduction is a calculation based on the ap-
Praised value of the property, your age, and the rate of return
you will receive as income. When the property is sold and new
income-producing assets can be acquired by the Trustee, you
will begin to receive an income that will continue for the rest
of your life. The following example illustrates the benefit of this
type of gift.

If you’d like to learn more about the possibilities of using
real estate to make important gifts to W&L, please call the
Development Office at (703) 463-8425.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving

 

 

 

Oi

W&L 41

 

 

 

Washington and Lee’s venerable
tradition of speaking to strangers once
helped a W&L graduate win a Pulitzer
Prize and may even have altered the
course of Georgia history.

The implausible story is that of
George Goodwin, ’39, who as a reporter
for the Atlanta Journal won the coveted
prize for local reporting in 1948 for ar-
ticles exposing vote fraud in rural Telfair
County, Ga.

It all grew out of the tangled web of
Georgia politics, when three men laid
claim to the governor’s office at the same
time. Eugene Talmadge, a populist of the
deep-Southern tradition, was elected
governor in 1946 to succeed the pro-
gressive Ellis Arnall, but he died before
inauguration day. Georgia’s constitution
at the time provided that in such a situa-
tion the state legislature would choose the
governor from the two surviving can-
didates who received the most votes in the
general election.

The constitutional provision seemed
straightforward enough, but it was com-
plicated by one factor: In the same elec-
tion, Georgia had chosen its first lieute-
nant governor, one Melvin E. Thompson.
Mr. Thompson contended that the suc-
cession provision was no longer valid
because it had been written before the
state created the office of lieutenant
governor. On the basis of that untested
argument, he claimed the governor’s
office.

One of the top three vote-getters was
Eugene Talmadge’s son, Herman. He had
garnered enough votes—but just
barely—to put him among the top two.
The Talmadges, father and son, were ex-

 

The Speaking Tradition Takes the Prize

tremely popular with rural lawmakers,
who held a huge majority in the
legislature. So it was no surprise when the
legislature designated Herman Talmadge
as governor. The outgoing governor, Ellis
Arnall, realized the matter was headed for
the courts and declared that he would
continue as governor until it was settled.

Enter George Goodwin. The Atlanta
Journal had indications, but no proof,
that a substantial number of write-in
votes cast for Herman Talmadge in
Telfair County were fraudulent. The
Journal’s editors sent Goodwin, one of
its young reporters, to Telfair County to
find proof.

Unfortunately, the folks in that rural
community did not take kindly to nosy
reporters from the big city. After two
days of investigating in Telfair, Goodwin
remained convinced that voter fraud had
occurred, but he was unable to prove it.
He telephoned his editor to say he had
given up and was coming home.

As he walked away from the public
telephone, Goodwin encountered an
elderly man, presumably a farmer,
dressed in overalls. True to the habit he
had acquired during his years at W&L,
Goodwin greeted the man. The stranger
responded, ‘‘I know why you’re here.”’
A conversation ensued, and the farmer in-
dicated a willingness to cooperate. His
helpfulness proved invaluable in a crucial
stage of the investigation that eventually
earned George Goodwin journalism’s
most prestigious award.

‘‘That man wouldn’t have spoken to
me if I hadn’t spoken to him first,’’
Goodwin says today. ‘‘Every journalist
knows that luck plays a role in in-
vestigative reporting, but I’m convinced
that it was more than luck in that case.
Speaking to strangers was just as much
a part of my training at Washington and
Lee as the things I learned in my jour-
nalism classes. It certainly opened a door
for me that day.”’

Goodwin remained in the journalism
field for several years after he received the
Pulitzer. In 1954 he joined First National
Bank of Atlanta as vice president and
director of advertising and public rela-
tions. He left the bank in 1965 and spent
the next 25 years with the public relations
firm of Manning, Selvage & Lee. He has
also served as a trustee of the Woodruff
Arts Center and the Alliance Theater and
is currently a W&L class agent.

—Richard Dowis

 

 

42 W&L

L. GEOFFREY LAWRENCE is a

senior contracts administrator at Sim-
monds Precision, a division of Hercules Inc.,
located in Vergennes, Vt.

In February RAYMOND P. WHITE received a
Distinguished Graduate Award from Norfolk
(Va.) Catholic High School. White was honored
for his work in the field of oral and maxillofacial
surgery. He is a professor of oral and maxillofacial
surgery at the University of North Carolina School
of Dentistry and a research associate at the UNC
Health Services Research Center. He lives in
Chapel Hill.

60 wi

JONATHAN R. LEMON is the cofounder and
president of Leather Furniture Co., a chain of
stores in the Northwest. He and his wife, Sally,
and two of their children are active in the business.
The family lives in Lake Oswego, Ore.

CHARLES W. SPRINGER has retired after a
23-year career with Syntex (USA) Corp. He and
his wife, Miriam, may go into business for
themselves in the San Francisco Bay Area.

After 25 years of federal service,

RICHARD L. KUERSTEINER has
taken an early retirement from the Navy Office
of the General Counsel. He has accepted a tem-
porary position with the Office of Chief Counsel,
NASA-Ames Research Center, Moffett Field,
Calif. He lives in Hillsborough, Calif.

ROBERT K. PARK II has moved from
Ravenswood, W.Va., to Tampa, Fla., and joined
Market Street Mortgage as executive vice
president.

JOHN W. BOYLE JR. has been pro-
moted to executive vice president of
Sovran Bank in Richmond.

PARK GILMORE teaches English and coaches
football, basketball, and baseball at Cincinnati
Country Day School.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN has

been elected executive vice president
of Banc One Corp. in Columbus, Ohio. He had
served as vice president-administration since
February 1988. Boardman is president of the board
of trustees of Columbus School for Girls. He lives
in Granville, Ohio.

MAURICE W. WORTH has been named vice
president of personnel for Delta Air Lines in Atlan-
ta. He had been assistant vice president of person-
nel administration. He and his wife, Rosalee, have
one son, Michael.

5 6 5 May 10-12

DR. BROOKS G. BROWN III has a private prac-
tice in ophthalmology in Chevy Chase, Md. He
and his wife, Lisey, live in Bethesda, Md., with
their five children.

In June BLAINE A. BROWNELL will become
provost and vice president for academic affairs at
the University of North Texas in Denton. He is
now dean of social and behavioral sciences at the
University of Alabama at Birmingham. In
December the second edition of his book, Urban
America, was published by Houghton Mifflin.

a ee atl

 

 

DR. KIAH T. FORD II] and his wife, Jean, have
two children, Chip, 20, and Ian, 17. Ford prac-
tices diagnostic radiology in Lynchburg, Va.

VICTOR R. GALEF visited the W&L campus this
fall to give a lecture titled ‘‘The Role of the Brand
Management System.”’ Galef is vice president for
marketing for Rorer Consumer Pharmaceuticals
in Radnor, Pa.

ANDREW C. KILPATRICK is a_ business
reporter for the Birmingham Post-Herald, the
morning newspaper in Birmingham, Ala.

S. REED PAYNTER and his wife, Joan, live in
Tokyo, where he is vice president of a joint ven-
ture between E. I. DuPont De Nemours and a ma-
jor Japanese chemical company.

JOE R. WILSON, president of Permatreat Inc.
in Fredericksburg, Va., has been appointed by the
governor to the Virginia Pesticide Control Board.

GEOFFREY C. BUTLER is head of

the Fort Worth Country Day School.
He and his wife, Evie, have three children, Geoff,
Lee, and William.

F. SCOTT KENNEDY is assistant dean for stu-
dent admissions at the Louisiana State University
School of Medicine in Shreveport. He also teaches
biochemistry.

FREDERICK T. TAUSSIG has made a career
change and is now with Lesslie Consulting Inc.,
a corporate employee benefits broker in St. Louis.
He had been with Arundale Inc., a family plastic
molding business.

KEMBLE WHITE III is a partner with the law
firm of Golden Potts Boeckman and Wilson in
Dallas. He specializes in tax controversy.

GEORGE W. WOOTEN was selected as an ad-
vocate by the American Board of Trial Advocates
in January 1989. He is an attorney with Fox,
Wooten & Hart in Roanoke.

LT. COL. THOMAS J. MCCAR-

THY JR. has been promoted to the
rank of colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve. He is
deputy commander of the 2174th U.S. Army Gar-
rison in Salem, Va. McCarthy is a partner with
the Pulaski, Va., law firm of Gilmer, Sadler, In-
gram, Sutherland, and Hutton.

Following the merger of his law firm, ROGER A.
MILAM is now a managing partner with the
Nashville, Tenn., firm of Denney, Lackey &
Chernam.

WILLIAM L. WANT directs the Charleston,
S.C., office of Nelson, Mullins, Riley & Scar-
borough. He practices environmental law and is
the author of the treatise Law of Wetlands Regula-
tion and the coauthor of the book Hazardous
Waste: Confronting the Challenge. He is also
chairman of the South Carolina Bar Subcommit-
tee on Hazardous Wastes.

Last fall EDWARD L. BISHOP III,

former executive vice president with
Drexel Burnham Lambert in New York City,
returned to the W&L campus to give a public lec-
ture about financial markets and the world
©conomy. His visit was sponsored by W&L’s
Financial Management Association.

DR. PAUL A. BROWER of Laguna Hills, Calif.,
'S in the private practice of urology and recently

served as president of the Orange County
Urological Society. He has two daughters,
Meredith, 10, and Lauren, 6.

HENRY R. GONZALEZ JR. is director of con-
struction for the Raymond F. Kravis Center for
the Performing Arts in Palm Beach, Fla.

KAZIMIERZ J. HERCHOLD is director and
general manager, Europe, for the Xerox Engineer-
ing Systems Division. He lives in London.

DAVID M. KELSO is an attorney with Baker &
Botts in Houston. He and his wife, Pat, have three
children, Morgan, 7, Andy, 5, and Kerry, 1.

JAMES H. KIERSKY is a professor of philosophy
at Georgia State University. He also works as a
business broker and mergers and acquisitions
specialist at Universal Business Services in Atlanta.

DR. ERIC P. MANTZ, a clinical professor of
surgery at the West Virginia University Health
Sciences Center in Charleston, recently completed
recertification by the American Board of Surgery.
He is first vice president of the West Virginia
chapter of the American College of Surgeons.

DR. DAVID L. RILEY is chief of radiology at
Cabarras Memorial Hospital in Concord, N.C.

D. WHITNEY THORNTON II is the resident
partner in the San Francisco office of Dempsey,
Bastianelli, Brown & Touhey. He specializes in the
practice of government contract law.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN (See
63).

CLARK H. CARTER is president of Mason &
Carter Inc., a Baltimore-based independent in-
surance agency.

J. BARTON GOODWIN has moved from New
York City to Greenwich, Conn., where he is a part-
ner of Bridge Capital Advisors. The firm invests
growth capital in small growing companies.

JAMES C. HAMILL JR. of Washington, D.C.,
is executive assistant on the staff of Federal Trade
Commission Chairman Janet D. Steiger. Hamill,
who has been with the commission for 17 years,
most recently served in the General Counsel’s
Office.

W. STEVEN JONES of Plano, Texas, is senior
counsel at ARCO International Oil and Gas Co.

An essay by RICHARD E. KRAMER titled ‘‘ The
Natyasastra and Konstantin Stanislavsky: Points
of Contact’’ will soon be published in Theatre
Studies. Kramer also recently contributed a review
to Studies in American Drama, 1945-Present. He
has been nominated for inclusion in Personalities
of America and is listed in Who’s Who in Enter-
tainment. Kramer lives in Oneonta, N.Y.

KEMBLE WHITE III (See 66).

A play by KIRK WOODWARD titled Who’s Who
in Murder won the 1990 new play competition
sponsored by the Hardin County Public Library
in Elizabethtown, Ky. It was scheduled for a pro-
duction there in March. Woodward lives in Up-
per Montclair, N.J.

HARRY J. ZELIFF is the author of ‘‘Hurry Up
and Wait: A Nuts and Bolts Approach to Avoiding
Wasted Time in Trial,’’ an article published in the
summer 1989 issue of The Judges Journal. The
journal is published by the judicial administration
division of the American Bar Association.

: 4 0 May 10-12

THE REV. RICHARD W. CAPRON is the pastor
of Trinity United Methodist Church in Rahway,
N.J. He is also an adjunct professor of theology
at Drew University.

THOMAS C. GROTON III has been appointed
judge of the circuit court for Worcester County,
Md. He began his duties in January.

MILFORD B. HATCHER JR. lives in Atlanta,
where he practices tax law with Jones, Day, Reavis
& Pogue.

DR. STUART L. PORTER of Fort Defiance, Va.,
is a professor of veterinary technology at Blue
Ridge Community College. In addition, he works
at the Wildlife Center of Virginia, which treated
1,300 wild animals in 1989.

HARRY L. SALZBERG, his wife, Alice, and their
daughter, Leslie, live in Las Vegas, where he does
investor relations work for Vanderbilt Gold Corp.,
a publicly traded gold mining company.

MARTIN F. SCHMIDT JR. received the 1989
Outstanding Earth Science Teacher Award for
Maryland. Schmidt, who teaches at The
McDonogh School in Baltimore, was given the
award by the eastern section of the National
Association of Geology Teachers.

PAUL S. SUGAR is a partner at the Baltimore-
based law firm of Ober, Kalen, Grimes & Shriver,
where he specializes in construction litigation.

D. WHITNEY THORNTON II (See ’68).

JAMES R. ALLEN is vice president

and controller for the National
Association of Securities Dealers Inc., the self-
regulatory organization for the NASDAQ and
over-the-counter securities markets. He and his
wife, Mary, and their three children live in
Rockville, Md.

CHARLES M. BROWNING is publisher of New
Homes Guide magazine in Washington, D.C., and
president of Rea/ Estate magazine in Tampa and
Boca Raton, Fla. Browning makes his home in
Potomac, Md.

DR. MICHAEL G. FLORENCE practices general
surgery in Seattle. He and his wife, Gwen, have
two children, Jameson and Kelsey.

ROBERT R. JENSEN is serving his second year
as chairman of the theater department at Fuller-
ton College in California. He secured the rights
to Largo Desolato, a play by Czech dissident
V’aclav Havel, prior to Havel’s selection as
Czechoslovakia’s first democratic president.
Jensen and his wife, Sandy, live in Fullerton with
their three children.

CMDR. CLARK B. LEUTZE participated in two
weeks of active duty training this winter with the
U.S. Navy Reserve. He lives in Berlin, Conn.

WILLIAM H. OAST III is a partner with the law
firm of Babb, Oast, Hook, and Crowe in Ports-
mouth, Va. He and his wife, Pam, have two sons,
Will, 14, and Tom, 11.

WALTER G. PETTEY III practices law with the
firm of Pettit & Martin in Dallas.

The University of Missouri System
Board of Curators has named
DANIEL W. ARMSTRONG a Curators’ Pro-

W&L 43

 

ri Die .

As a teenager, Charles B. Castner,
52, and his friends played sandlot foot-
ball and baseball in a section of
Louisville, Ky., called Crescent Hill.
Their games were frequently interrupted
by the passing of steam trains, some of
which would stop right in front of them
to unload passengers or pick them up.

The boys would drop their balls and
gaze with fascination and a little awe as
the passengers alighted or got on board.
Then the big engine would pick up steam
and chug away into the distance.

Today, 50 years later, trains no longer
stop in Crescent Hill, but at the old
passenger halt, there’s an addition, a new
sign that reads, ‘‘Castner.’’

It’s a fitting tribute to a man known
to some as ‘‘Mr. L&N.’’ Castner spent
26 years of his life in the public relations
department of the Louisville & Nashville
Railroad, which is now part of CSX
Transportation. He also helped organize
the Kentucky Railway Museum in 1954.
Today, in retirement, the self-confessed
**dyed-in-the-wool railroad buff’’ is the
L&N’s best historian. ;

Before he retired in early 1988,
Castner and his staff gathered some 60
boxes of railroad photographs, doc-
uments, and correspondence, some of
them dating back to the beginning of the
century, and donated them to the archives
at the University of Louisville. He now
spends one day a week in the archives,
helping to organize the material for use
by researchers and scholars.

 

OP hag 7, ee et 4 ay) er mt
GFF tas ee es * Aepadek en

Photo by Mary Ann Lyons. Copyright 1989, The Courier-Journal.

The Lure of the Locomotive

     

ek

Castner’s interest in railroads began
early in life—perhaps even before his
birth. ‘‘I’m not sure if it’s something
that’s genetically transferred,’’ he says,
‘but as a boy my father was intensely in-
terested in trains. He grew up in an era
when railroads were the primary means
of travel. The heroes of that generation
were locomotive engineers, whereas today
they would be rock stars or astronauts.’’

During his own childhood, Castner
saw trains every day in Louisville. And
when he came to Washington and Lee,
he frequently heard the old C&O blast up
the grade into Lexington.

‘*On spring mornings, when the win-
dows were open, if you had a class on the
House Mountain side of Washington Hall
you could hear the train as it came along
the Maury,’’ he recalls. ‘‘And someone
would usually say, ‘Here comes the
Virginia Creeper.’ ”’

After graduation, Castner spent
several years in the U.S. Marines and
worked with WHAS Radio in Louisville
before taking a job with the L&N in 1961.
It fulfilled his lifelong dream to have a
career in the railroad industry.

Trains occupy a special place in
American history, Castner believes.
‘*There’s something about the sound of
a locomotive—the staccato exhaust of an
engine, the wail of a whistle sounding in
the night. The steam locomotive is a sym-
bol of power and speed. It captured peo-
ple’s imaginations in this country as few
inventions ever have.”’

 

 

44 W&L

fessor of Chemistry at the University of Missouri-
Rolla. The honor recognizes his work and inter-
national reputation in the field of liquid
chromatography and separations. Armstrong is
head of UMR’s analytical chemistry division.

WILLIAM K. BLOCK JR. is copublisher of the
Toledo Blade and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. He
is also president of the papers’ parent company,
Blade Communications Inc. He lives in Maumee,
Ohio.

ROBERT G. BROOKBY of Winston-Salem,
N.C.., is the senior loan administration officer for
First Wachovia Corporate Services Inc. He is also
a senior vice president/group executive of
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.

JAMES W. M. CARSON has been named vice
president and director of the asset securitization
group of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
He and his wife, Constance, live in Yardley, Pa.

BRUCE W. CUSSON is a
trust operations officer for
Union Trust Co. He is
responsible for coordinating
the trust department’s settle-
ment of sales, purchases, and
transfers of securities.
Cusson is located at the com-
pany’s Trap Falls Ad-
ministration Center in Shelton, Conn.

ROBERT P. FOLEY has been promoted to
regional vice president of American Finance
Group. He lives in Spring, Texas.

 

WILLIAM K. MILLKEY is a vice president with
BCB Construction Co. in Atlanta. He has a
daughter, Jenny, who is 2.

JOHN A. CONRAD, the former

treasurer of Sands, Anderson,
Marks, and Miller, is now president of the Rich-
mond law firm. He is a member of the litigation
department and practices in the areas of insurance
litigation and civil trials.

J. J. (JEFF) CROSS II is in the property and
liability insurance business with Langham,
Langston & Dyer of Houston. In September 1989
he was elected president of the Independent In-
surance Agents of Houston. He is also a member
of the Houston Golf Association and planned to
help produce Houston’s PGA Tour golf tourna-
ment in March.

JAMES P. DI FORIO JR. is senior vice president,
chief financial officer, and chief administrative of-
ficer of Continental Excess & Select. He lives in
Chatham, N.J.

JAY H. KERN is a partner in the law firm of
Simon, Peragine, Smith & Redfearn. He also
serves as secretary-treasurer of the New Orleans
Downtown Development District and as a member
of the Sugar Bowl Committee.

CHESTER F. BURGESS received an

Award for Cable Excellence at the
11th Annual Network ACE Award ceremonies
held in Los Angeles in January. The awards are
given for excellence in cable television program-
ming. Burgess was recognized for his work as pro-
ducer of ‘‘The Big Story,’’ a regular feature which
appears on the Cable News Network. The winning
entry was coverage of the Exxon Valdez’s oil spill
in Alaska.

 

 

 

JEFFREY D. BURKE is chief financial officer of
Bon Secours-St. Mary’s Health Corp. He and his

wife, Robin, live in Midlothian, Va.

JAMES M. COSTAN is a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb,
Leiby & MacRae. He had been with the law firm
of Pierson Semmes and Finley.

As part of the U.S. Army’s Training with Industry
Program, MAJ. DAVID V. FINNELL is with the
R. R. Donnelley Co.’s financial printing division
in Lancaster, Pa.

M. CRAIG GARNER JR. has been appointed to
a South Carolina senate committee to study cor-
porate law. He is coeditor of the South Carolina
Corporate Law Manual and was a speaker at the
South Carolina Bar Association’s annual conven-
tion. He lives in Columbia, S.C.

DAVID M. KELSO (See ’68).

? of 5 May 10-12

GREGG B. AMONETTE is sales director for
Automatic Data Processing Inc.’s Brokerage In-
formation Services Group. He lives with his wife,
Susan, son, Jake, and daughter, Meg, in Westfield,
N.J.

PETER G. D. ERTMAN has been selected by the
U.S. Department of the Interior for participation
in the 15-member Departmental Manager Develop-
ment Program. He will be training for a career in
executive operations in the Bureau of Land
Management. He and his wife, Maiva, and their
two daughters, Adrienne and Nicole, live in Ger-
mantown, Md.

EDMOND B. GREGORY has been appointed to
the SEC Practice Section Peer Review Commit-
tee of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants. Gregory is a partner with Linton,
Schafer & Co. He lives in Frederick, Md.

THAD GRUNDY JR. is deputy assistant secretary
for international affairs with the U.S. Department
of Energy in Washington, D.C. He and his wife,
Lesley, and children, Margaret and William, live
in Alexandria, Va.

ANGELICA D. LLOYD has left Norfolk
Southern and is now associate counsel with
Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. She continues to
live in Roanoke.

THOMAS O. RAINEY III is the commonwealth’s
attorney of Dinwiddie County, Va. He and
ROBERT B. HILL, ’79L, are partners in the law
firm of Hill & Rainey. Rainey has three children,
Thomas O. IV, 5, Kelly, 3, and Stephen, 2.

DANIEL E. DRENNEN II and a

partner have formed the estate and
retirement planning firm of Wood Drennen
Associates Inc. in Birmingham, Ala.

JAMES C. GOULD resigned in 1989 as chief
counsel to the U.S. Senate Finance Committee. He
is now a partner in the Washington, D.C., office
of Vinson & Elkins, a Houston-based law firm.
He lives in Arlington, Va.

PETER D. LAMI is president and owner of The
Novus Group Inc., a manufacturers’ representative
of several semiconductor companies. Lami, who
lives in Huntsville, Ala., has offices in Raleigh,
Atlanta, and Huntsville.

MARK R. MAURAIS is vice president of sales for
Arthur Rutenberg Custom Homes in Clearwater,
Fla. He is with Gary Catenac Corp., an Arthur
Rutenberg franchised company, and is responsi-
ble for the marketing of on-your-lot sales of
custom homes. He lives in St. Petersburg, Fla.

B. CRAIG OWENS of Walton-on-Thames,
England, is director of finance for northwest
Europe for the Coca-Cola Co.

JONATHAN L. SPEAR is assistant division
counsel of IBM’s national service division. He had
been area marketing counsel for IBM’s marketing
operations in the Southeast. He lives in Wyckoff,
N.J.

ROBERT R. ZYBLUT is a broker with Shearson
Lehman Hutton in Washington, D.C. He and his
wife, Betty, live in Silver Spring, Md.

JAMES H. NEWTON is Washington

regional controller of Cort Furniture
Rental Corp. in Fairfax, Va. He directs ad-
ministrative financial practices for all districts
within the region’s responsibility. Newton received
his master’s degree in business administration from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
in 1989.

After returning from a six-month deployment to
the Western Pacific, MARSHALL K. SNYDER
was promoted to major in the U.S. Marine Corps.
He is the communications officer for the 13th
Marine Expeditionary Unit and lives in Oceanside,
Calif.

PAUL H. THOMSON was elected in November
to a second four-year term as commonwealth’s at-
torney for the city of Winchester, Va. He won all
five precincts in a contested race. He is also chair-
man of the Winchester Democratic Committee.

EDWARD A. BURGESS has re-

ceived the Chartered Financial
Analyst designation from the trustees of the In-
stitute of Chartered Financial Analysts. He is an
investment portfolio manager with Trust Company
Bank in Atlanta.

Following fellowship training in maternal fetal
medicine at Parkland Hospital in Dallas, JAMES
T. CHRISTMAS joined the obstetrics and
gynecology faculty at the Medical College of
Virginia. He and his wife, Brenda, live in Rich-
mond with their two children.

DAVID J. MCLEAN is a partner in the Los
Angeles law firm of Latham & Watkins. He and
his wife, Tammy, and daughter, Emily, live in San
Marino, Calif.

DR. ROBERT N. MUCCIOLA joined DR.
THOMAS A. WASH, ’51, in private practice at
Peninsula Gynecology and Obstetrics in Newport
News, Va., in October. Mucciola and his wife,
Margaret, have two children, Nicole, 4, and
Michael, 2.

STEVEN G. SCHWARTZ continues his private
admiralty and personal injury law practice in Alex-
andria, Va. He was recently named general counsel
of the Boat Owners Association of the United
States as well as vice president of Boat America
Corp. in Alexandria.

Former Alexandria, Va., resident KEITH A.
TEEL has moved to London, where he is a part-
ner in the law firm of Covington & Burling.

 

ROBERT M. BALENTINE JR. was

selected by Outstanding Atlanta as
one of 10 young leaders in the city in 1989. Balen-
tine is cofounder and president of Balentine & Co.,
a general securities firm. He was recognized for
his work with Family Consultation Services, the
Salvation Army, and the Boy Scouts of America.

In September LOWELL R. BUCKNER III joined
Continental Can Co. as a human resources
manager for the Fort Bend, Texas, manufactur-
ing facility.

J. J. LANDERS CARNAL is vice president in the
fixed-income investment division of Boatmen’s
Trust Co. in St. Louis. He manages bond port-
folios for pension and endowment funds.

JOHN V. C. SAYLOR is a
partner in both Andersen
_ Consulting and Arthur An-
_ dersen Worldwide Or-
_ ganization. He is in the
_ financial services practice of
Andersen Consulting’s
Boston office.

JOHN P. STAFFORD serves as president of the
Pittsburgh East Rotary Club. He and his wife,
Melissa, and daughter, Meredith, live in the Mount
Lebanon section of the city.

20) ON

MALCOLM S. DORRIS is now a partner in the
New York office of Dechert Price & Rhoads
following the firm’s merger with Booth & Baron.
Dorris and his wife, Virginia, live in Brooklyn,
N.Y.

THOMAS E. GOSS JR. has joined Paine Web-
ber International (UK) Ltd. as an international
syndicate manager. He and his wife, Lib, live in
London.

H. BENJAMIN HULL JR. is employed by the
Environmental Protection Agency as an en-
vironmental scientist-geologist in Washington,
D.C. He and his wife, Mary, have two children,
Darby and Benjamin.

EDWARD J. MCDONNELL III has received the
Chartered Financial Analyst designation by the
trustees of the Institute of Chartered Financial
Analysts. He lives in Pittsburgh.

CARL E. PERRY is an assistant U.S. attorney for
the western district of Louisiana. He works as a
general litigator in the civil division. Perry makes
his home in Lafayette, La.

After resigning as senior trader and numismatist
for James U. Blanchard and Co., where he had
worked for six years, DANA S. SAMUELSON
has moved with his wife, Colleen, to Apex, N.C.
He is president and owner of Samuelson’s Coins,
a rare coin and precious metals investment com-
pany which specializes in United States coinage.

SCOTT V. VAN DYKE is president of Anglo-
Dutch Petroleum International, which conducts
North Sea oil and gas exploration. The company
is based in Houston.

CHARLES O. ADLER is an
engineer with the stability and flight
controls department of Lockheed in Burbank,
Calif. He is also active in the Marine Corps Reserve

W&L 45

 

 

Barbara and James Morefield, ’52L:
Making a Difference in Children’s Lives

It’s a weekday afternoon in Houston,
and the Rotary Boys and Girls Club is
abuzz with activity. Dozens of young peo-
ple, aged 7 through their late teens, are
here. Some play basketball, while others
swim. Some work on computers, or study
in the library.

The club’s two facilities are a second
home for hundreds of ‘‘at-risk’’ children
in Houston’s inner city. The doors open
at noon and stay that way till 9 p.m. Dur-
ing the summer and on Saturdays and
holidays, the hours are 9 a.m. to 5:30
p.m. Were it not for the Boys and Girls
Club, its directors say, many of these
youths would be out on the street.

“*These young people don’t have any
place to go after school,’’ says James P.
Morefield, ’52L, who has served for
many years on the club’s board of trus-
tees. ‘“There are a lot of youngsters who
have never seen anything but concrete.”’

Morefield became involved in the club
16 years ago, when the Rotary Club took
over its leadership. At the time, he was
president of the Sharpstown, Texas,
Rotary. (In 1986 Morefield and his wife,
Barbara, were named Rotary Couple of
the Year.)

““‘Barbara and I don’t have any
children, and we’ve always been in-
terested in youth,’’ Morefield says. ‘‘We
have been afforded a privilege and oppor-
tunity to work within the community, and
it’s been a pleasure.”’

The swimming pool at one of the
club’s two facilities is named in honor of

 

the Morefields. So is the building which
houses the recreation hall, bathhouse, and
staff quarters at Camp Mahan, the Boys
and Girls Club’s residential camp in New
Waverly, Texas.

The Morefields were officially
recognized for their service in a ceremony
last October, when they received the
club’s Fourth Humanitarian Award. (The
first recipient of the Humanitarian Award
was none other than Vice President
George Bush.)

*‘During the awards banquet,’’
Morefield recalls, ‘‘the emcee said, ‘There
are three things that Jim Morefield loves
most, after his wife Barbara, and they’ve
all become coeducational in the last few
years—the Rotary, the Boys Club, and
Washington and Lee.’ But I’ve survived
them all.’’

Morefield is convinced that the club
“thas made and will continue to make a
large difference in these children’s lives.
You see youngsters at 9 or 10 years of age,
out on the street selling crack. It’s hard
to make them go to work at McDonald’s
when they’ve been earning $400 or $500
a day. The Boys and Girls Club has a
strong drug education program, and I
think we have a positive impact.’’

He continues, ‘‘We’re fortunate to be
involved with a program of this kind. I
think we get more enjoyment from it than
the participants do. It adds an extra
dimension to our lives. If we couldn’t be
involved with projects like the Boys and
Girls Club, life wouldn’t be as golden.”’

 

 

46

W&L

as the executive officer of a light armored vehicle
company in Utah.

ROBERT P. GORDON III has been promoted to
the post of manager in the audit division of Ar-
thur Andersen’s Chicago office. He lives in
Willowbrook, IIl.

BRADLEY A. LEWIS is a federal sales represen-
tative for Information Builders Inc. He lives in
Fairfax, Va.

CAPT. JOHN K. SCHMIDT has been awarded
the meritorious service medal for achievement by
the U.S. Army. Schmidt recently made an inter-
service transfer from the Army to the Navy to
become an aerospace experimental psychologist.
He lives in Pensacola, Fla.

THOMAS G. BAKER JR. was
elected to the Virginia House of
Delegates in November to represent the 12th
District, which includes Pulaski County, the city
of Radford, and part of Montgomery County.

CHARLES D. GRIFFITH JR. of Norfolk is an
assistant United States attorney in the Eastern
District of Virginia.

A graduate of the Texas Tech School of Law,
THOMAS S. HUNTER is a hearings examiner
with the Railroad Commission of Texas in Austin.

CAPT. ANTHONY R. IERARDI serves in the
U.S. Army as the commander of Headquarters
Troop, 2nd Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regi-
ment in Bamberg, West Germany, where he lives
with his wife, Heather.

LT. BRUCE C. JONES (See LTJG. DAVID W.
SPRUNT, ’85).

LAWRENCE C. NORFORD is a commercial
litigator with Saul, Ewing, Remick & Saul in
Philadelphia.

DR. ROBERT D. SHAVER is in the first year of
an obstetrics and gynecology residency program
at the Lankenaw Hospital in Philadelphia. He and
his wife, Kristen, live in Ardmore, Pa.

C. HALL VETTERLEIN JR. is a commercial in-
surance broker with American Brokerage Corp.
of Philadelphia in Ardmore, Pa.

Having moved from Chapel Hill, N.C., to
Baltimore, JOHN T. WARMATH III now works
for AEGON USA Investment Management Inc.
in the private placements department.

MICHAEL D. DRINKWATER is

director of international operations
for Foxmeyer Trading Co., a national Intergroup
subsidiary. He lives in Dallas with his wife,
Cameron, and daughter, Caroline, 1.

GUY M. HARBERT III is a partner in the
Roanoke law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes &
Moore.

MICHAEL H. LEWERS is an assistant vice presi-
dent of Meridian Bank retail banking division in
Philadelphia. He spends his spare time training and
participating in biathlons in the Northeast.

PAUL H. THOMSON (See ’77).

CAPT. ANTHONY J. ZACCAGNINI serves in
the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps
as a military prosecutor and special assistant to
a U.S. attorney. He and his wife, Corinne, live
in Waipahu, Hawaii.

CHARLES W. ALCORN III works

as a creative intern at Berry-Brown
Advertising in Dallas, where he lives with his wife,
Genevieve.
MELANIE M. C. BARBER provides counsel in
the field of maritime and environmental law to the
congressional Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee. She was included in Who’s Who in
the East and Who’s Who in American Law and
was named Volunteer of the Year at This Way
House, a shelter for runaway teenagers.

JAMES C. CLARK is a stockbroker with Alex
Brown and Sons in Philadelphia. He and his wife
live in Chestnut Hill, Pa.

WILLIAM T. CLARKE JR. and his wife, Eva,
have moved from New York City to Richmond,
where he is an institutional bond salesman for

Craigie Inc.

Ww. GERARD FALLON JR. practices business
law with the firm of Warner & Stackpole. He and
his wife, Lynnette, live in Boston.

LEE R. FELDMAN is deputy city manager of
North Miami, Fla. Feldman also serves in the
Naval Reserve. He and his wife, Stacey, live in
Miramar, Fla.

MICHAEL A. GOULD practices law with Stark,
Elman, Amron, Liner, and Narotsky in New York
City. He specializes in real estate and litigation.

JOHN E. HARRISON III is a copy editor for Pin-
point Information Corp. in Reston, Va. The com-
pany publishes a daily newsletter for computer in-
dustry executives.

CAPT. MALCOLM C. KENDALL recently
graduated from the special forces qualification
course and the special forces Thai functional
language course. He is now in the military free-
fall course at Fort Bragg, N.C. After mountain
climbing in the Patagonia region of Chile and
Argentina he will report to the Ist Special Forces
Group at Fort Lewis, Wash.

JAMES P. LAURIE III is a first-year student at
Campbell University Law School in Buies Creek,
N.C.

KIRK R. MANCER is the finance director for
Alabama state Senator Bill Cabaniss’ campaign
for the U.S. Senate. Mancer and his wife, Anne,
live in Birmingham.

BENTON J. MATHIS JR. is a partner with the
firm of Smith, Currie, and Hancock in Atlanta.
He specializes in labor relations and employment
law. He is also a member of the state committee
of the Georgia Republican Party. His wife,
ANGELINE FLEEMAN MATHIS, is an assistant
attorney general with the state of Georgia. She
primarily handles legal work for Jekyll Island, a
State-owned coastal resort.

WADE M. MEADOWS recently completed the
Executive MBA Program at the University of
South Florida in Tampa. He is president of Com-
pensation Systems Inc., a firm specializing in pen-
sion plans and other employee benefits for small
businesses.

J. RANDALL MINCHEW is a senior associate
with the firm of Hazel, Thomas, Fiske, Beckhorn,
and Hanes in Leesburg, Va. He specializes in land
use, zoning, and eminent domain in Fairfax and
Loudoun Counties. Last fall, he formed the
Virginia Shelter Corp. to build affordable dwell-
ing units in Spotsylvania County.

PATRICK H. MOONEY is vice president of
fixed-income trading and sales for Bear Stearns
& Co. in New York City. He and his wife, Amy,
live in Brooklyn.

THEODORE D. PETRIDES is in his fourth and
final year at Holy Cross Greek Orthodox
Theological School. He and his wife, Cristen, and
their two sons, Alexei and Nicholas, live in Bollin-
dale, Mass.

VIRGINIA A. SCHMULLT is the editor of opin-
ions for the Illinois Appellate Court, with the Of-
fice of the Reporter of Decisions. She lives in
Bloomington, IIl.

M. EUGENE WOOD III is vice president at First
Wachovia Corporate Services in Chicago. He is
an account officer in the U.S. Corporate Group.

R. CRAIG WOOD is supervising attorney in the
seven-lawyer litigation section of the Char-
lottesville office of McGuire, Woods, Battle, and
Boothe. He was selected for Who’s Who Among
Practicing Attorneys, 1989 and is chairman of the
Young Lawyers Committee, Litigation Section, of
the Virginia State Bar. He and his wife, Lisa, have
four children, Robby, 8, Emily, 6, Ashley, 4, and
Skip, 1.

: 8 5 May 10-12

Musician ROGER T. DAY is collaborating with
John Stockfish, who is most noted for his work
with Gordon Lightfoot and Jim Croce. Day and
Stockfish have an artist development/production
agreement to create a catalog of songs to sell to
artists such as Randy Travis and Kenny Rogers.
Day lives in Hermitage, Tenn.

ANDREW G. HARING is a first-year associate
with the law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby,
Palmer & Wood in New York City.

THOMAS A. HOWELL has joined the Lexington
law firm of Natkin, Heslep, Siegel, and Natkin.
His special emphasis is litigation. His wife, M.
SUSAN PALMER, ’85L, is the assistant dean in
W&L’s School of Law.

PATRICK O. PETERKIN works in the invest-
ment advisory division of private banking for
Bankers Trust Co. in New York. He lives in
Darien, Conn.

LT. ROBERT A. SCHLEGEL is stationed aboard
the USS Harry E. Yarnell, a guided missile cruiser.
He and his wife, Dawn, live in Virginia Beach.

While in training at Naval Air Station Whiting
Field in Milton, Fla., U.S. Coast Guard LTJG
DAVID W. SPRUNT happened to meet LT.
BRUCE C. JONES, ’82, an instructor pilot who
was also assigned to Whiting Field. Only about
750 of the Coast Guard’s 38,000 members are

- 3

Dig oi bye a
Bg bee es
See

cee
|

t

rar

|

4 PP. -
eg _ oe ‘

"Mae i, Pty

eRe OR ee, ‘ =

iar ig * AE ae eS

Jones (left) and Sprunt

   

=

pilots, so, Sprunt said, it was ‘‘quite a coin-
cidence’’ that two W&L alumni were assigned to
the same base. Sprunt will complete training and
receive his wings of gold in April. He will then be
assigned to Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth
City, N.C.

JAMES J. WERNER JR. is a district sales
manager for AMF Bowling Inc. He lives in
Louisville, Ky.

CHRISTOPHER H. WILLIAMS is an investment
banker with Bowles, Hollowell, Conner & Co. He
and his wife, Claire, live in Charlotte.

JAMES L. WILLIAMS JR. is an associate at-
torney with the firm of Riddles, McGrath, and
Greenberg in Dallas. He practices in the area of
insurance defense litigation.

LAWRENCE S. ANKER, a graduate

student in chemistry at Pennsylvania
State University, has been awarded a three-year
graduate fellowship from the Department of
Defense to conduct research in chemometrics.

WILLIAM G. BLOOM of Roswell, Ga., is district
sales manager for Colgate-Palmolive’s soft-soap
division. His territory includes Alabama, Ten-
nessee, Georgia, and parts of North and South
Carvlina.

J. CAULLEY DERINGER works for the Carey
Winston Co., where he is a leasing representative
in Northern Virginia.

JOHN M. FALK has been elected to the Congres-
sional Award Foundation Board of Directors and
is awaiting confirmation of his nomination to the
national board of directors of the Congressional
Award Program. He won the Congressional
Award in 1986. Falk is a third-year law student
at Washington and Lee.

On the air in more ways than one, BRIAN J.
OLIGER works for both a Cleveland-based avia-
tion company and WNCX, a classic rock station
in Cleveland. At Baron Aviation Inc., Oliger is an
aerial videographer and video services director. He
is a part-time announcer for WNCX.

PARKER B. PLAISTED, formerly of Richmond,
now works as a systems engineer in the scanning
systems group at Xerox Corp. in Los Angeles.

JAMES J. STRADER is a newsman in the Pitts-
burgh bureau of the Associated Press. He had been
a reporter and bureau chief with the Augusta
Chronicle in Augusta, Ga.

LT. JAMES A. WHITE JR. has completed his
active duty training as a fighter pilot in the U.S.
Air Force. He is now a reservist in the Texas Air
National Guard and flies the General Dynamics
F-16 Fighting Falcon. He lives in Dallas.

After obtaining a master’s degree in

geological sciences from the Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin, JOHN E. ATKINS took
a position as an associate geophysicist with Con-
ors Inc. He lives in Oklahoma City.

DAVID L. BATTELSTEIN is a first-year adver-
tising design student at The Art Center College of
Design in Pasadena, Calif.

ROBERT A. DUCHEMIN practices law with
Gable, Taylor, and Dees in Jacksonville, Fla. He
is also an adjunct professor of business at the
University of North Florida.

W&L 47

 

 

Black and Plante, ’86, Are Model Alumni

oa
a >
7 =.
RS
=
~

*.

5

Bt

>»

"
—
oe |
oe

= 7

.

*.

.
>

Pusey

Ome

ug 7 *

r} teri 4

trl df;

be
j
7,
rey
pF taal
HF
e 2

Bracemreewncss:

Two members of Washington and
Lee’s class of 1986 are taking the model-
ing world by storm. And we mean, literal-
ly, the world.

Michael Black is a model for Beatrice,
an Italian agency based in Milan. He has
traveled to Paris, Vienna, and parts of
Germany, and photographs of him have
appeared in such varied publications as
the European editions of Cosmopolitan
and Vogue, as well as M magazine. He
has even cropped up on the covers of a
few Harlequin Romance novels.

Kathleen Plante, meanwhile, is presi-
dent of the Seline Agency, an interna-
tional talent agency based in Washington,
D.C., and Moscow. The agency calls
itself ‘“your Russian connection for talent
and sports,’’ and the first model it
marketed was none other than the first
Miss USSR, Yulia Sukhanova.

Neither Black nor Plante quite
planned careers in the modeling business.
After graduating from W&L with a
degree in French, Black moved to New
York City to work first as an assistant
buyer for Saks Fifth Avenue and then as
a marketing adviser for Victor Cosa.

Both jobs turned out to be somewhat
disappointing, though. ‘‘Retail was just
not what I thought it would be,’’ he says.
**I was not happy being on the buying end
of things, so I decided to move into the
wholesale side. Working for Victor Cosa
was certainly a challenge, but I finally
decided just to get out altogether and
regroup.”’

 

**Regrouping’’ in this case meant
waiting tables. It turned out to be a for-
tuitous choice of employment, for it was
there Black was ‘‘discovered’’ by Beatrice
of Milan. Attracted by his ‘‘older’’ looks
and relatively young age, she recommend-
ed a photographer.

Plante, on the other hand, left W&L
to study linguistics in Tokyo. She began
modeling on the side, and that endeavor
led to her real interest—television. She ap-
peared in several commercials on
Japanese TV and even served as the host
of an 18-minute morning talk show,
Kathleen’s Time.

Upon her return to the United States,
she entered a partnership with Folkon
Ltd., which imports Russian art, anti-
quities, and other items from Eastern
Bloc countries. Plante’s side of the
business involves marketing Soviet talent,
and her current client list includes the
Leningrad Circus, which will tour Japan
and Taiwan.

‘*My interest in the modeling field is
actually decreasing now,’’ she explains,
‘and I’m becoming much more interested
in representing sports and talent.”’

Black, too, recognizes that his in-
volvement in the field may not last
forever. He is confident, though, that he
can always fall back on his retail ex-
perience in New York City—and, of
course, his Washington and Lee
education.

—by Elizabeth Parkins, ’89,
and Anne Coulling

 

 

48

W&L

MARSHALL M. EUBANK is pursuing a master’s
degree in business administration at the Universj-
ty of Texas at Austin. He also works at Dell Com-
puter Corp. in strategic planning and finance.

MICHAEL A. KING has joined the firm of
Cahill, Gordon, and Reindel in New York City.

RICHARD G. LEARY is operations officer in the
First Wachovia operational services division at
Wachovia Bank and Trust in Charlotte. He is a
supervisor in retail account services.

Ist LT. ALEJANDRO LOPEZ-DUKE is sta-
tioned with the U.S. Army in Bremerhaven, West
Germany, where he works as a hospital ad-
ministrator. He is also pursuing a master’s degree
in human resource management from Boston
University. He and his wife, Elizabeth, live in
Bremerhaven.

CHARLES G. NUSBAUM JR. is a sales represen-
tative with the largest business-only long-distance
company, Cable & Wireless Communications Inc.
He lives in Arlington, Va.

2nd LT. PAUL G. SCHLIMM is a tank company
executive officer in the most forward-deployed
tank battalion in Europe, the Ist Armored Divi-
sion in Vilseck, West Germany.

MARQUIS M. SMITH III was named National
District Manager of the Year for the Uniroyal-

~ Goodrich Tire Co. B.F. Goodrich Brand Sales. He

lives in Sacramento, Calif.

HARPER B. TRAMMELL left Texas Commerce
Bank in Houston after two years as an officer in
private banking. He is a first-year student in the
master of business administration program at the
University of Texas at Austin.

J. SEAN CAMPBELL is head of
maintenance of the R Lazy S Ranch
in Jackson, Wyo.

JOHN C. GAMMAGE JR. is a senior credit
analyst in the energy finance division at Manufac-
turers Hanover Trust Co. He lives in New York
City.

BRADLEY B. ROOT recently started a small
company called Chicago Travel Consultants. He
plans to run in his second marathon in May.

JAMES A. SOWERSBY is a trust representative
in the investment management group of Sun Bank
Capital Management. He lives in Altamonte
Springs, Fla.

After working as a sales manager for Macy’s in
Baltimore, GREGORY S. UNGER entered law
school at Louisiana State University. He lives in
Baton Rouge.

W. BRANDT WOOD is vice president of GW
Contractors Inc. and Wood Marine Service Inc.
The companies perform hydraulic dredging for the
Corps of Engineers and oil companies. Wood lives
in River Ridge, La.

WANDA L. YODER is associated with the law
firm of Harris, Black, and Allen in Lynchburg,
Va. WILLIAM P. HARRIS, ’65L, is president of
the firm.

MONICA M. BURKE is enrolled in

a master of fine arts program in pro-
ducing/theater management at Columbia Univer-
sity in New York City.

ROBERT J. BURR has joined the Richmond law
firm of Sands, Anderson, Marks, and Miller as
an associate.

JOHN C. R. CATRON is a director at KSBS,
Channel 24, Ski-TV. He and his roommate,
GREGORY D. WILLIAMS, ’89, live in Steam-
boat Springs, Colo.

CHRISTOPHER S. DE MOVELLAN is a
marketing specialist with B.F. Goodrich Aerospace
De-Icing Systems. He lives in Canton, Ohio.

dnd LT. PHILIP A. DUPONT recently graduated
from the U.S. Army Aviation Officer Basic Course
and Air Assault School in Fort Rucker, Ala. He
now attends Flight School.

CAPT. STEVEN P. HAMMOND is assigned to
the 2nd Force Service Support Group at Camp Le-
jeune, N.C.

VANESSA E. HICKS has joined the Lexington
law firm of Natkin, Heslep, Siegel, and Natkin.

ANDREW H. MILNE is an attorney with
Pestronk & Associates, The Travel Law Firm, in
Fairfax, Va. He lives in Oakton, Va.

GLENN R. NEAL is an associate with the
Roanoke law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes, and
Moore.

MARGARET M. PIMBLETT is the assistant to
the chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. She
recently visited Lexington to deliver a volunteer
training lecture at the Stonewall Jackson House.
The lecture, based on her senior thesis, was titled,
‘‘Music in Antebellum Lexington.”’

FRANK M. SANDS JR. is a leasing agent for
Walker & Dunlop, a commercial real estate and
financial services firm in Washington, D.C.

DAVID E. THOMPSON works for Electronic
Data Systems in Dallas. Last November he com-
pleted the Ironman Triathlon in Kona, Hawaii.

MICHAEL D. TUGGLE is pursuing a master’s
degree in advertising at the University of Georgia.

 

 

 

Marriages

DR. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN, ’73, and Patricia
L. Stewart on Oct. 21, 1989, in Washington, D.C.
Dr. Lanny R. Levenson, ’73, was best man. Silver-
man is in the private practice of pediatric and
general dermatology in Annandale, Va., and is an
associate clinical professor of pediatrics at

Georgetown University. The couple lives in
Fairfax.

 

DR. JOHN E. KEITH JR., ’75, and Karen L.
Miles on Sept. 30, 1989. C. Berkeley Wilson II,
75, was a member of the wedding party. Keith
IS a physician with Orthopaedic Associates. The
couple lives in Spartanburg, S.C.

W. BENJAMIN MCCLAIN JR., ’75, and Sonja
Gay Thomas on Sept. 23, 1989. McClain is an at-
torney with his firm, W. Benjamin McClain Jr.,
P.A. The couple lives in Greenville, S.C.

MARC R. CHIMES, ’76, and Caroline Michael

on Oct. 21, 1989, in Charlotte. John M. Shuey,

10, was a member of the wedding party. Chimes

IS a political consultant for Nordlinger Associates.
he couple lives in Washington, D.C.

LOUIS P. MCFADDEN JR., ’76, ’79L, and
Kathleen Ann Merlino on May 28, 1989, in Vent-
nor, N.J. McFadden is an attorney with the law
firm of McFadden and West P.C. in Ventnor.

STEVEN D. WHITE, ’77, and Rebecca S. Halton
on Sept. 9, 1989. Classmate Michael A. Anania
was a groomsman. The couple lives in Virginia
Beach.

MICHAEL J. MISSAL, ’78, and Deborah
Stashower on Aug. 12, 1989. Missal practices with
the law firm of Kirkpatrick & Lockhart in
Washington, D.C., where the couple lives.

RICHARD B. WILES, ’79, and Carol E. Wyke
on May 6, 1989. Wiles is employed by Duke Power
Co. in Charlotte.

H. HOLCOMBE BAIRD III, ’80, and Cynthia
Rosso of Richmond on June 3, 1989. Baird is an
offset operations engineer for Westvaco at its li-
quid packaging division. The couple lives in
Richmond.

THOMAS R. WALL IV, ’80, and Nancy W. Rees
on Oct. 7, 1989, in New York City. Groomsmen
included William F. Reighley, ’79, H. Frederick
T. Moore, ’80, and Jonathan Wall, ’89L. Wall is
employed as a general partner in the New York
City merchant banking firm of Kelso & Co.

KATHLEEN MARIE FENTON, ’81L, and Roger
W. Kronau on Oct. 7, 1989, in Roanoke. She prac-
tices law in Roanoke.

JON C. KALFS, ’81, and Laurie Houtsinger on
Nov. 18, 1989. The couple lives in Pittsburgh.

ALEXANDER W. MCALISTER, ’82, and Susan
Spencer Norman on April 15, 1989, in The Plains,
Va. McAlister is employed as an account executive
with Washburn Financial. The couple lives in
Charlotte.

ERIC A. HEINSOHN, ’83, and Rosa McLaughlin
Carrington on July 16, 1989, in Charlottesville,
Va. Heinsohn continues to work as a professional
musician. The couple lives in Charlottesville.

JAMES M. FAULKNER III, ’84, and Adrienne
Akin on July 22, 1989. Faulkner is a commercial
real estate consultant for the firm of Melson, Wat-
son, and Jones. The couple lives in Dallas.

FORREST N. JENKINS II, ’84, and Janelle Cot-
ter on Nov. 4, 1989, in Columbia, S.C. Members
of the wedding party included Leslie A. Cotter Jr.,
’°80, James L. Baldwin, ’83, G. Leighton Stradt-
man, ’84, and John L. McCants, ’84. The couple
lives in Memphis, Tenn.

JOHN D. BUCHANAN, ’85, and Kittie Hillhouse
on Aug. 19, 1989, in Birmingham, Ala. The wed-
ding party included John D. Buchanan Jr., ’60L,
L. Gray Sanders, ’85, Scott H. Shannon, ’85,
Robert K. Gresham, ’86, and L. William Kelly,
’86. Buchanan is an associate with the law firm
of Shackleford, Farrier, Stallings, and Evans in
Tampa, Fla., where he practices securities and
banking-law.

JOSEPH C. CAMPBELL JR., ’86, and Melanie
Katherine Wangler on June 24, 1989, in Char-
lottesville, Va. Campbell will graduate from the
University of Virginia Medical School in May 1990
and will then serve as an intern at the Bethesda
Naval Hospital in Maryland.

KIRK T. TENEYCK, ’86, and Judith A. Gibson
on Sept. 30, 1989. TenEyck is employed by Mars
Mfg. Co. The couple lives in Cincinnati.

MARK L. MILLAR, ’87, and Edie Johnson on
Sept. 16, 1989. The wedding party included
classmates John G. Koedel II and Craig A. Matz-
dorf. Millar is working in Hong Kong and
Guangdong Province, China, as the production
manager for Gitano Handbags.

JEFFREY A. BRANFLICK, ’88, and Jennifer
Lowe Kauffman on Dec. 16, 1989, at Hollins Col-
lege. Members of the wedding party included
Jonathan W. Hedgepeth, ’87, and Jonathan M.
Preziosi, ’88. Branflick is an accountant with
Johanna Dairies in Flemington, N.J.

VITO A. GAGLIARDI JR., ’89L, and Patricia
H. Sweeney on Aug. 19, 1989, in Philadelphia.
Gagliardi is a clerk for Superior Court Appellate
Division Judge Virginia Long in Trenton, N.J.

 

 

Births

 

 

DR. AND MRS. MILFORD F. SCHWARTZ
JR., 61, ason, Ethan Frank, on Jan. 2, 1990. The
family lives in Chicago.

MR. AND MRS. EDMUND H. ARMEN-
TROUT, ’68, a second son, Cabot Kirkpatrick,
on Oct. 6, 1989. Armentrout is president of the
Downtown Columbus (Ohio) Community Im-
provement Corp.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69,
a son, Alexander Lykes, on Sept. 11, 1989. Car-
rere is employed by Lykes Bros. Steamship Co.
Inc. The family lives in New Orleans.

MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH L. CHURCHILL,
’°69L, a son, Joseph Lacy Carr, on Oct. 29, 1989.
He joins four girls, ranging in age from 22 to 11.
Churchill practices international law in Atlanta
with primarily German and Swiss clients.

MR. AND MRS. CLINTON B. PALMER III,
70, their second child, Samuel Eben, on Oct. 27,
1989. He joins a sister, Nora. Palmer and his wife,
Patty, and their children live in Pasadena, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. CRAIG A. BOWLUS, ’71, a
daughter, Emily Ann, on April 14, 1989. She joins
a sister, Mary Katherine, 3. Bowlus is a free-lance
broadcast writer and producer in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN L. P. SULLIVAN JR..,
’71, ason, Charles Whitten, on Oct. 19, 1989. He
joins a brother, Will, 2. The family lives in Alex-
andria, Va.

MR. AND MRS. B. C. (BEN) GRIGSBY II, ’72,
their first child, John Rockbridge, on Dec. 19,
1989. Grigsby is chief executive officer of Barclays
de Zoete Wedd Government Securities Inc. in New
York. This spring, he and his wife, Carol, plan
to open a bed-and-breakfast in a house on Main
Street in Lexington which was once occupied by
the Delta Upsilon fraternity. The family lives in
Rye, N.Y.

DR. AND MRS. JOHN C. DOVEL, ’73, a
daughter, Erin Lawrence, on Aug. 14, 1989. She
joins a brother, Tyler, 4. Dovel is employed by
Psychotherapy Associates. The family lives in
Freehold, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE B. WOLFE, ’73, a
son, Oliver Jordan, on July 4, 1989. Wolfe and
his wife, Ginny, live in Columbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. C. PETER CIMMINO, ’74, a
son, Christian Peter Jr., on Nov. 28, 1989. Cim-
mino is a vice president with Smith, Barney, Har-

W&L 49

 

 

Jon Missert, ’88,
Parachutes Into Panama

‘*At the two-minute warning, I was
praying pretty well. At one minute before
the jump, I was praying like I’ve never
prayed in my life.’’

That is how 2nd Lt. Jon Missert, ’88,
recalls his first combat jump, which he
made into Panama last December.
Missert is company fire support officer
with the 82nd Airborne Division in Fort
Bragg, N.C.

The 82nd Airborne was alerted at 9
a.m. on Dec. 18, drew equipment, and
moved to a secured area six hours before
the jump. The mission, according to
President Bush, ‘‘was to safeguard the
lives of Americans in Panama, defend
democracy in Panama, combat drug traf-
ficking, and protect the integrity of the
Panama Canal Treaty.’’

When it came time to jump, Missert
says, he was scared, but there was so
much to do, and his rucksack was heavy,
causing enough pain to make him forget
the fear. ‘‘The jump looked fine,’’ he
says, ‘‘until I looked down to see tracers
and burning buildings below me.’’

Upon landing, Missert found himself
in the backyard of a Panamanian citizen.
In broken Spanish, Missert was able to
communicate with him. The Panamanian
guided him toward the airport and ex-
claimed, ‘‘Thank God you’re here.’’

From there, Missert moved on toward
the airport to link up with his company
and continue the mission. As fire support
officer, he was to use artillery, air sup-
port, and mortar available to him and
neutralize the Panamanian Defense
Forces headquarters, thus clearing the
way for the infantry. Once this was ac-
complished, he said, the infantry’s task
was primarily to ‘‘go in and mop up.”’

Missert said that his Washington and
Lee education, and particularly his ex-
perience with the Honor System, helped
him greatly after the fighting had calmed.
Since the combat rations for his company
had been dropped into a swamp by acci-
dent, he and his men had nothing to eat
the first day in Panama, while they waited
for supplies to come in from other units.
He and his men encountered an open
store, with anything free for the taking.
Missert told the men, however, that they
were to take only the uniforms and food
for which they were authorized, and
nothing else.

 

After his graduation from W&L in
1988, Missert remained on the campus as
**gold bar recruiter,’’ a position created
by the Army for newly commissioned sec-
ond lieutenants to aid in ROTC recruiting
efforts. Missert stayed in the post until
February of last year, when he reported
to Fort Sill, Okla., for the field artillery
officer basic course. It was there that he
received training in high-technology
systems such as laser range finders,
remotely piloted vehicles, multiple rocket
launchers, and large caliber howitzers. In
Panama, he was responsible for employ-
ing these systems in combined-arms
operations.

Though he was frightened throughout
the military action, Missert realized the
importance of his mission and says he
believed it necessary for the United States
to intervene in Panama. As a military of-
ficer, he says, he is not a policy maker,
but rather a policy enforcer.

Nevertheless, he remembers, ‘‘every
Panamanian citizen we met was very glad
to see us.”’

—by Joe Milcoff, ’92

 

 

50

W&L

ris, Upham & Co. in New York City. He and his
wife, Betty, live in Cos Cob, Conn.

MR. AND MRS. ALLENS. C. WILLINGHAM,
°74, their first child, Kathryn Allen Cutts, on June
22, 1989. Willingham’s law firm, Love & Wil-
lingham, is a litigation practice. The family lives
in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT R. GRAY, ’75, a son,
Robert Robinson Jr., on Oct. 2, 1989. Gray is a
vice president in commercial lending at Citizens
Fidelity Bank and Trust Co. in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. B. SPENCER HEDDENS III,
’75, a daughter, Elizabeth Hamilton, on Oct. 4,
1989. Heddens is senior vice president at Boatmens
First National Bank in Kansas City, Mo. The fami-
ly lives in Shawnee Mission, Kan.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM H. STURGES, ’75,
a son, Alex Thomas, on Aug. 27, 1989. Sturges
is a partner in the law firm of Weinstein & Sturges
in Charlotte.

MR. AND MRS. B. HARRISON TURNBULL,
°75, a son, Benjamin Harrison Jr., on July 28,
1989. He joins a sister, Kate, 6. The family lives
in Charlottesville, Va.

DR. AND MRS. BEN R. BARTON, ’76, a son,
Ben Reed Jr., on Aug. 9, 1989. Barton is in private
practice in cardio-thoracic surgery in Gainesville,
Fla.

MR. AND MRS. FREDERICK L. BATES, ’76,
a daughter, Marybelle, on Nov. 16, 1989. Bates
is employed by Bates Buras & Associates. The
family lives in New Orleans.

DR. AND MRS. JEFFREY A. BAUM, ’76, their
first son, Robert Evan, on Oct. 31, 1989. Baum
was board certified in orthopedic surgery in July
1989 and is now in private practice. He and his
family live in Hickory, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. G. DON N. BRYANT III, ’76,
a daughter, Monna Lea, on April 18, 1989. The
family lives in Tallahassee, Fla.

NEILSON L. JOHNSON, ’76, and Rita Hum-
mingbird, a son, Bradford Hummingbird
Johnson, on June 29, 1989. The family lives in
Shreveport, La.

MR. AND MRS. P. SHEPHERD ROUSE III,
’76, a son, Parke Randolph, on Nov. 14, 1989.
He joins two sisters, Elizabeth, 4, and Kate, 2.
Rouse is a vintner for the Montdomaine Wineries
in Charlottesville, Va.

DR. AND MRS. H. COBB ALEXANDER JR.,
°77, a son, Grant, on Oct. 4, 1989. He joins two
brothers, Austin, 8, and Blake, 2. Alexander is in
orthopedic private practice in Huntsville, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. H. DENNY GAULTNEY, ’77,
a son, William Skinner, on Oct. 14, 1989. Gaultney
is employed by Skinners Dairy Inc. in Jackson-
ville, Fla.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM R. HANSEN, ’77L,
a son, Henry Christian Oliver, on April 9, 1989.
Hansen and his wife, Wendy, have two other
children, Ashley Anne, 6, and William, 4. The
family lives in Croton, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES B. MALLORY III, 77,
a son, William Seville, on May 27, 1989. He joins
two brothers, Bryan, 4, and Madison, 2, and a
sister, McLain, 3. Mallory, who practices law in
Statesville, N.C., is chairman of the Iredell County
Republican Party. He is also a major in the Army
Reserve.

a All te ld ns

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE R. THOMAS, ’77, a
daughter, Victoria Lee, on March 28, 1989. She
joins a brother, Rustin, 2. Thomas is founder of
Thomas Patterson Inc., a financial services firm
in High Point, N.C.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES C. VARDELL III, ’77,
a son, James C. IV, on July 5, 1989. Vardell is
an attorney with Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New
York City. He and his wife, Elizabeth, live in
Larchmont, N.Y., with their two children.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES N. WOHLFARTH,
77, a daughter, Cassidy Jean, on July 13, 1989.
Wohlfarth is associated with Wohlfarth Construc-
tion. The family lives in Germantown, Md.

MR. AND MRS. HOWARD A. RUBEL, ’78, a
daughter, Sarah Amanda, on Nov. 11, 1989. She
joins a brother, Todd Robert. Rubel is a senior
vice president in the research department of the
institutional brokerage firm C.J. Lawrence,
Morgan Grenfell Inc. The family lives in New York

City.

MR. AND MRS. BENJAMIN B. SWAN, ’78, a
son, Harrison Blaine, on Jan. 15, 1990. Swan is
director of Pine Island Camp, a summer camp for
boys in Belgrade, Maine.

MR. AND MRS. PAUL W. GERHARDT, ’79,
’84.., a daughter, Charlotte Augusta, on June 17,
1989. She joins a sister, Catherine, 2. The family
lives in Norfolk, Va.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT C. ROGERS, ’79, a
daughter, Alice Esther, on Aug. 12, 1989. Rogers
is an assistant professor of mathematics at Virginia
Tech.

MR. AND MRS. R. P. (DUKE) CANCELMO
JR., ’80, a daughter, Katherine Denney, on Oct.
9, 1989. Cancelmo is an account executive with
the Houston investment firm, Rotan Mosle Inc.
He and his wife, Martha, live in Houston.

MR. AND MRS. GOETZ B. EATON, ’80, a son,
Paul Theodore, on Oct. 20, 1989. Eaton works for
Digital Equipment Corp. in Cambridge, Mass.

MR. AND MRS. EBEN D. FINNEY III, ’80, a
son, William Cromwell Riggs, on Dec. 4, 1989.
He joins a brother, Eben IV, 2. The family lives
in Annapolis, Md.

NORRIS L. LAFFITTE, ’80, and Mary Loyal
Collins, a daughter, Elizabeth Lucius, on June 9,
1989. She joins a sister, Mary Loyal. Laffitte is
president of the Hampton & Branchville Railroad.
The family lives in Hampton, S.C.

STEPHEN J. MCCABE, ’80, and Gretchen
Wylegala, a daughter, Anne Louise, on Aug. 9,
1989. McCabe is an editor in the publications
department of Ecology and Environment Inc., an
environmental consulting firm with headquarters
in Lancaster, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. MURRY G. MCCLINTOCK,
80, a second son, Scott Hotchkiss, on July 21,
1989. The family lives in Tunica, Miss.

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT W. PEARCE JR.,
80, a son, Richard Blake, on Jan. 12, 1990. He
joins a brother, Robert III, 2. Pearce is a corporate
attorney with Young, Clement, Rivers and Tisdale
in Charleston, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. J. MICHAEL POWELL, ’80,
a daughter, Sarah Rebecca, on Dec. 7, 1989.
ol iS assistant manager of the purchasing

partment at Canon Virginia Inc. in Newport
News, Va.

MR. AND MRS. KENNETH R. ROBSON III,
*80, a son, Kenneth R. IV, on May 20, 1989. Rob-
son and his wife, Debbie, live in Pasadena, Calif.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL B. VAN AM-
BURGH, ’80, a daughter, Rachel Elizabeth, on
July 13, 1989. Van Amburgh is a control analyst
with NCNB Texas National Bank in Dallas.

MR. AND MRS. PHILIP D. CALDERONE,
*81L, a son, Jesse Gabriel, on July 17, 1989. He
joins two brothers, Daniel and Christopher.
Calderone is assistant general counsel with Banfi
Vintners in Old Brookville, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD H. DRENNEN, ’81,
a daughter, Evelyn Adams, by adoption. She was
born Jan. 14, 1990. The family lives in Nashville,
Tenn.

MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM R. LIGHT III, ’81,
a son, William Richard IV, on June 20, 1989.
Light, who received his doctorate from Rice
University, is a research biochemist at the Naval
Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN W.B. NOR-
THINGTON, ’81, a daughter, Virginia Kathleen,
on July 21, 1989. She joins Patricia, 6, Wesley,
4, and Henry, 3. Northington is cofounder,
secretary, and a member of the board of directors
of Beadz Inc., a ladies’ and children’s shoe com-
pany. James R. Small, ’81, is also a cofounder of
the company, and Richard S. Essex, ’80, is presi-
dent and chief executive officer.

MR. AND MRS. R. DONALD RIGGER JR., ’81,
a daughter, Madison Brooke, on Oct. 5, 1989. Rig-
ger is employed by the U.S. Environmental Pro-
tection Agency in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD P. RODGERS,
*81L, a daughter, Margaret Pierce, on Sept. 2,
1989, in Reykjavik, Iceland. Rodgers is the
political officer at the American Embassy in
Reykjavik.

CAPT. AND MRS. J. MARK TURNER, ’81, a
son, Caleb Seth, on July 11, 1989. Turner is pur-
suing a master’s degree in communications at the
University of New Orleans.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID G. WEAVER, ’81L, a
daughter, Anne Catherine, on Dec. 11, 1989. She
joins a brother, David Jr., 8, and a sister, Mary
Elizabeth, 3. Weaver is a partner in the Roanoke
law firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes, and Moore.

MARY D. ALLEN, ’82L, and Sam D. Eggleston
III, a son, Carter Christian Eggleston, on June 26,
1989. Allen and her husband operate the Rockfish
Title Co. from their home in Afton, Va.

MR. AND MRS. EHRICK K. HAIGHT JR., ’82,
a daughter, Emily Christina, on Dec. 1, 1989. She
joins a sister, Elizabeth Marguerite. Haight and
his wife, Jeanne, and their children live on Hilton
Head Island, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES A. JAMES JR., ’82,
a son, Charles Alston III, on Nov. 3, 1989. James
is in his third year as a systems consultant with
Data Systems Technology. The family lives in Co-
lumbia, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID K. FRIEDFELD, ’83L,
a son, Samuel Noah, on Oct. 11, 1989. Friedfeld
is employed by Clear Vision Optical Co. The fami-
ly lives in Hempstead, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. JACK R. DENT, ’84, a
daughter, Elizabeth Marie, on June 26, 1989. Dent

is the new development project manager for Fair-
ways Development at Longcreek Plantation in Co-
lumbia, S.C.

JANE ALLEN FLETCHER, ’84L, and PAUL E.
FLETCHER III, ’85L, a son, Daniel Christopher,
on Nov. 29, 1989. He joins a sister, Kathleen
Caroline, 2. The baby’s mother is assistant bar
counsel with the Virginia State Bar; his father is
publisher and editor-in-chief of Virginia Lawyers
Weekly. The family lives in Richmond.

MR. AND MRS. DAVID J. HANSEN, ’84L, a
daughter, Eleanor Ward, on June 17, 1989.
Hansen is an attorney with the law firm of Kown,
Dickerson & McCain. He and his wife, Anne, and
their daughter live in Nashville.

MARY MILLER JOHNSTON, ’84L, and
WILLIAM D. JOHNSTON, ’82L, a daughter,
Amy Elizabeth, on June 5, 1989. She joins a sister,
Ellen Christine. The baby’s mother is an attorney
with the Wilmington, Del., law firm of Morris,
James, Hitchens & Williams. The baby’s father
practices law with Young, Conaway, Stargatt &
Taylor in Wilmington.

MR. AND MRS. KEVIN M. KADESKY, ’84, a
daughter, Elizabeth Rose, on Sept. 21, 1989.
Kadesky is a surgery resident at Parkland
Memorial Hospital in Dallas.

MR. AND MRS. R. PATRICK FERGUSON, ’86,
a daughter, Austin Leigh, on Nov. 13, 1989.
Ferguson is employed by Ferguson Enterprises Inc.
in Lynchburg, Va.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS M. JONES, ’86L, a
daughter, Stewart Elizabeth, on Oct. 10, 1989.
Last summer Jones started Jefferson Business
Group, an investment management venture capital
firm in Roanoke.

JONNIE L. SPEIGHT, ’86L, and Leonard
McGee, a son, Thomas Speight McGee, on Jan.
18, 1989. Speight practices law with the Roanoke
firm of Johnson, Ayers & Matthews. The family
lives in Fincastle, Va.

BARBARA J. TAYLOR, ’86L, and Dan Taylor,
a daughter, Claudia Caroline, on Sept. 26, 1989.
Taylor is an attorney with Parvin, Wilson, Barnett
& Hopper in Roanoke.

 

In Memoriam

 

 

 

IRVING MAY LYNN, ’19, retired vice president
of the Lynchburg Foundry Co., died May 11,
1989. Lynn joined Lynchburg Foundry in 1920 and
served as its treasurer and vice president for finance
and procurement. He was a director of the Fidelity
National Bank and the First Federal Savings and
Loan. Lynn was also a W&L class agent for several
years.

WELDON THOMAS KILMON, ’23, retired ex-
ecutive vice president of the Baltimore Asphalt
Paving Co., died Aug. 16, 1989. After graduation
he spent nine months surveying land with the U.S.
Forest Service. In March 1924 he joined the
Baltimore Asphalt Block and Tile Co. as an
engineer. Over the next six years he tried various
business ventures, including managing a restaurant
in Washington, D.C. In 1930 he rejoined
Baltimore Asphalt and remained with the general
construction company until his retirement in 1967.
He was a member of the American Society of Civil

WaL = 5l

Engineers and the Engineering Society of
Baltimore. Kilmon was also a W&L class agent
from 1955 to 1957 and from 1978 to 1979. He was
a member and trustee of the Lovely Lane United
Methodist Church in Baltimore.

FREDERIC LETTEAU ENGELS, ’24, past presi-
dent of Engels Equipment Co. Inc., died in
February 1989. Following a short stint in the heavy
machinery manufacturing and sales business in
Minnesota, Engels moved to Utica, N.Y., where
he was president of Engels Equipment Co. Inc.
Over the next several years he also served as presi-
dent of Daylume Mfg. Co. Inc. and Oriskany
Malleable Iron Co. In 1951 he moved to Califor-
nia and entered the mortgage banking business.
He retired in 1964.

DAVID POINTER, ’24, retired president of the
State Bank of Como, Miss., died Dec. 30, 1988.
After leaving W&L, Pointer first worked for the
Federal Reserve Bank in Memphis, Tenn. In 1924
he returned to his hometown of Como and began
work with the State Bank, where he spent his en-
tire career.

COL. ALBERT CAMPBELL DEUTSCH, ’25, of
San Antonio, Texas, died July 31, 1989. Deutsch
was a retired colonel in the U.S. Army who had
most recently served as a general staff officer. Dur-
ing World War II he participated in the invasion
of Africa in 1942 and the Normandy invasion in
1944. He also served as executive officer in the
research and statistics division of the economic and
scientific section of Gen. MacArthur’s staff in
Tokyo in 1946.

ULRICH EBERHARDT CRAIG,
Newark, N.J., died Oct. 31, 1989.

26, of

WILLIAM MATT JENNINGS, ’27, former direc-
tor of marketing for the Tennessee Department of
Agriculture, died Nov. 6, 1989. He was in the
farming business for 30 years, specializing in the
breeding of purebred Jersey cattle. From 1936 to
1941 he worked for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, and in 1941 he joined the Tennessee
Department of Agriculture as director of
marketing. After his retirement in 1974, he was
employed on a part-time basis by the Federal Crop
Inc. of the U.S. Department of Agriculture as a
crop loss adjuster. He served as president of the
National Association of Marketing Officials and
the Southern Weights and Measures Association
and as chairman of the National Task Force on
Metrication and the National Conference on
Weights and Measures.

WILLIAM LYNE WILSON, ’27, a Lynchburg,
Va., attorney, died Nov. 26, 1989. He was the
grandson of William Lyne Wilson, who served as
W&L’s president from 1897 to 1900. After
graduating from Washington and Lee, he worked
for the National Metropolitan Bank and the
Federal Housing Administration in Washington,
D.C. He entered the U.S. Navy during World War
II and served in the Pacific as a lieutenant com-
mander. He received a law degree from George
Washington University and practiced law with the
firm of Wilson, Garbee & Rosenberger in Lynch-
burg. He was a member of St. John’s Episcopal
Church.

CLIFFORD FRANCIS COUNIHAN, ’31, retired
copy editor, make-up editor, and telegraph editor
for the Providence, R.I., Journal-Bulletin, died

532 W&L

May 9, 1989. After spending a year at W&L,
Counihan transferred to Brown University and
received a degree in 1931. He was a sportswriter
for the Providence News-Tribune from 1931 to
1932 and served as editor of the Hudson (Mass.)
Daily Sun from 1934 to 1937. He then worked for
a year as a sports copy editor at the Providence
Star-Tribune before becoming a copy editor for
the Pawtucket Times in 1940. He joined the
Journal-Bulletin in 1942. A longtime Rhode Island
resident, Counihan was a member of the Green
Hill Civic Association and the Providence
Newspaper Guild.

RALPH OMAR SMOOT, ’31, of Camden On
Gauley, W.Va., died April 10, 1989.

ERNEST CARLYLE LYNCH JR., ’32, ’33MA,
a master craftsman, furniture designer, and in-
dustrial arts instructor, died Dec. 12, 1989. Follow-
ing his graduation from W&L Lynch worked as
secretary and treasurer of Roanoke Sales Co. In
1935 he returned to Lexington and was a teller at
Peoples National Bank, a position he held until
1938. He then taught at Lexington High School
from 1938 to 1943 and founded its industrial arts
program. During the 1942-43 and 1946-47
academic years he served as an assistant professor
of engineering at W&L. He joined the Craft House
in Harrisonburg, Va., as a furniture designer in
1947 and remained until 1952. Over the next 20
years he taught drafting, industrial arts, and
physics at Broadway High School in Broadway,
Va. Lynch was a deacon and a member of Broad-
way Presbyterian Church.

JOHN LINTON WARREN JR., ’32, of Enter-
prise, Ala., died Feb. 8, 1989.

HAROLD BERRILL ABRAMSON, ’33, died
Jan. 15, 1989.

HERMAN LARKIN FURLOW, ’33, a retired
mail carrier in Hampton, Ark., died March 15,
1989. Furlow attended W&L for one year and then
transferred to the University of Arkansas. He
served in the Navy during World War II. Furlow
was a deacon of the First Baptist Church in
Hampton.

FRED NORMAN SQUIRES, ’33, of Myrtle
Beach, S.C., died June 23, 1989. Squires was a
retired colonel in the Air Force and served in
World War II. He was a member of Myrtle Beach
Masonic Lodge 353 AFM.

JOSEPH HENRY STALEY JR., 733, retired
manager of the Walker Casket Co. of Tampa,
Fla., died Nov. 2, 1989. After graduating from
W&L, Staley began his career as a salesman for
the Southern Coffin & Casket Co. in Knoxville,
Tenn. For the next two years he served Southern
Coffin as production manager in its Maryville,
Tenn., branch. From 1938 to 1939 he attended the
Ryan School of Aeronautics. In 1940-41 he was
manager and chief pilot for ONG Aircraft Corp.
in Emporia, Kan., and from 1941 to 1942 was an
aeronautical inspector for the Civil Aeronautics
Administration. He served in the U.S. Army Air
Corps from 1942 to 1945. Staley joined Walker
Casket Co. shortly thereafter and stayed with the
company until his retirement.

FRANCIS MOSS HOGE, ’34L, retired General
District Court judge and former mayor of Marion,
Va., died Sept. 23, 1989. After earning his degree

from W&L, Hoge moved to Marion and opened
a law practice. He was elected mayor in 1936 and
held the position until 1940. That year he became
town attorney, a post he held for the next two
decades. From 1954 to 1957 he was a substitute
trial justice, and in 1957 he began a 26-year career
with the 28tk. Judicial District. From 1957 to 1974
he was a trial justice and judge of the Smyth Coun-
ty Court and the General District Court, and from
1974 until his retirement in 1983 he was chief judge
of the General District Court. Hoge was president
of the Smyth County Bar Association in 1956 and
1967 and was president of the Association of
Judges of County and Municipal Courts of
Virginia in 1968-69. In addition, he was an elder
in the Royal Oak Presbyterian Church and
moderator of the Abingdon Presbytery.

ARTHUR CLARENCE TONSMEIRE JR., 734,
retired president and chairman of the board of
Altus Bank of Mobile, Ala., died July 25, 1989.
He was first vice president, a director, and a
member of the executive committee of Inter-
American Savings and Loan Union; a director and
member of the executive committee of the Inter-
national Union of Building Societies & Savings
Associations; and president of the Mobile Historic
Preservation Foundation. He was a director of
First Mississippi National Bank, the Alabama Cat-
tlemen’s Association, the Alabama Chamber of
Commerce, and the University of South Alabama
Board of Trustees. He was also affiliated with the
Mobile Area Council of the Boy Scouts of
America, the Allied Arts Council, Goodwill In-
dustries, the Alabama Heart Association, the
Kiwanis Club, and United Appeal of Mobile
County. He was a senior warden and vestryman
of St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church and a member
of the board of trustees of the Wilmer Hall
Episcopal Children’s Home.

CLAIBOURNE HENRY DARDEN, ’35, retired
president of the Servomation Corp. in Greensboro,
N.C., died Oct. 4, 1989. Upon leaving W&L,
Darden went to work for the O. Henry Hotel in
Greensboro and became assistant manager prior
to joining Sands and Co. Inc. in the fall of 1936.
With Sands and Co. he worked as secretary,
treasurer, and ultimately district manager. In 1957
he started his own company, Caterers Inc., a food
vending service operation. The company was
subsequently sold to Servomation Corp. He was
a member and past president of the Greensboro
Rotary Club and a life member of the Salvation
Army Advisory Board. Darden was a former
member of the Greensboro Human Relations
Commission and a past president of the Controlled
Shooting Association. He was an elder, former
chairman of the board of deacons, and a past
president of the young men’s Bible class at the First
Presbyterian Church in Greensboro.

JOHN BRADFORD SANFORD, ’37, of Ponte
Vedra Beach, Fla., died Aug. 24, 1989.

ROBERT LEE HUDSON JR., ’40, ’42L, an at-
torney in Richmond, Ind., died May 30, 1989.

DR. ANDREW MAURICE MOORE, ’40, a
plastic surgeon practicing in Lexington, Ky., died
July 22, 1989. He received his medical degree in
1943 from Washington University in St. Louis.
During World War II, he served in the U.S. Army
at Valley Forge Army Hospital and attained the
rank of major. After the war he returned to St.
Louis and in 1952 completed a residency as a

a ea a ee a

fellow in plastic surgery at Washington Universi-
ty. He later settled in Lexington, Ky., where he
was the first trained plastic surgeon to practice in
central Kentucky and the first professor of plastic
surgery at the University of Kentucky Medical
School. He was president of the Southeastern
Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons,
the Ohio Valley Plastic Surgical Society, the
Southern Medical Association, and the American
Association of Plastic Surgeons. At St. Joseph
Hospital in Lexington, Moore served as chief of
surgery in 1974, chairman of the department of
surgery from 1974 to 1977, and a member of the
board of directors from 1975 to 1978. Most recent-
ly he was honored with the establishment of the
Andrew M. Moore Visiting Professorship at the
University of Kentucky Medical School. He was
a member of the Cathedral of Christ the King in

Lexington, Ky.

HERBERT MORRISON WEED, ’42, of
Englewood, Colo., a retired corporate officer of
Anaconda Co., died Oct. 10, 1989. Weed began
his career in 1941 with Anaconda only to have it
interrupted by World War II, when he served as
a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. From 1946 to 1955
he worked for the Kenosha, Wis., plant of the
Anaconda Wire and Cable Co. and the Anacon-
da American Brass Co. He then joined the Chile
Exploration Co., an Anaconda subsidiary based
in New York. In 1958 he joined the Anaconda
Sales Co. and was elected its president in 1963 and
a corporate vice president in 1966. In 1974 Weed
was named president of the firm’s new uranium
division. After his retirement in 1982, he joined
United Park City Mines Co. of Salt Lake City as
vice president and director. He helped the com-
pany acquire the Cimarron Corp. of Dallas, an
oil and gas producer. Weed was a director of the
Atomic Industrial Forum, Chemical Bank (Inter-
national), the Silver Institute, British American
Metals (London), and the International Copper
Research Association. He was also listed in Who’s
Who In America.

ROBERT WARREN HOWE MISH, ’46, chief
agent and producer for Barger Insurance Co. in
Lexington, died Nov. 4, 1989. After his gradua-
tion from W&L, he worked for Sun Life Insurance
Co. In 1954 he joined Wise & Waddell insurance
agency in Lexington and remained with the firm
through its merger in 1974 with Barger Insurance.
During World War II he served in the Army Air
Corps with duty in Okinawa, Japan. Mish served
on the board of the Rockbridge National Bank.
He was a former member of the advisory board
of Dabney S. Lancaster Community College and
was a member of the county’s study committee for
the Rockbridge regional airport. He was a past
president of the Rockbridge SPCA and the Lex-
ington Kiwanis Club. Mish was a member and
elder of the Lexington Presbyterian Church.

FRANK DONALD HARRISON, ’49, vice presi-
dent and underwriting manager of Security Ser-
vices Insurance Co., died Aug. 11, 1989. He spent
his entire career in the insurance industry. He was
senior vice president of Fred S. James Co. of Texas
before being named president and chairman of
DMS Agency Inc. of Dallas. He served on the
board of directors and placement board of In-
dependent Insurance Agents of Dallas and as
chairman of several IAD committees. He had held
the CPCU designation since 1959 and was named

Boss of the Year” by the Dallas Association of
Insurance Women in 1976-77.

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birth-
days, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes

to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190 - Not including freight charges

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$170 - Not including freight charges

 

 

The Arm Chair and Boston
Rocker are also available in
natural dark pine stain, with
crest in five colors, at the same
price as the black arm chair and
rocker.

 

 

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges will
be billed after delivery. Estimates for those charges are available upon request. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,

if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

W&L

53

WILLIAM FRANKLYN MCCORMICK, ’50,
assistant division administrator for the Virginia
Department of Highways and Transportation, died
Aug. 22, 1989. After leaving Washington and Lee
he pursued extension courses in engineering from
the University of Wisconsin. He received a diploma
in civil engineering in 1953 from the International
Correspondence School. In 1965 he entered the
U.S. Navy Corps of Engineers. For the Virginia
Department of Highways he served as an
engineer’s aid, highway management engineer,
senior management engineer, and assistant district
engineer. He was a member of the American Socie-
ty of Civil Engineers, the National Model Railroad
Association, and the Covenant Presbyterian
Church of Staunton, Va.

GEORGE HENRY MORE JR., ’51, of Rockport,
Ind., died July 30, 1989.

HARRY EDMOND WEBB JR., ’51L, a retired
chief counsel of the U.S. Indian Claims Commis-
sion, died Oct. 7, 1989. Following his graduation
from W&L, he joined a trucking firm in Detroit.
In 1952 he left to work as a law clerk for Judge
Albert V. Bryan in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia. In the 1950s he joined
the Indian Claims Commission staff as a lawyer.
He was named chief counsel during the Johnson
Administration and retired in 1978. Webb was an
elder in the Presbyterian Church of the Covenant
in Arlington, Va.

DR. RALPH SHAPPEE PARK, ’54, former chief
of medicine at Arnot-Ogden Hospital in Elmira,
N.Y., and a practicing physician in Staunton, Va.,
died Oct. 14, 1989. Park earned his medical degree
from Washington University in St. Louis and com-
pleted an internship in internal medicine at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He
then entered private practice with his uncle in
Elmira, N.Y., where he practiced until 1976. That
year he moved to Staunton to practice with W&L
classmate Dr. William C. Branscome. Park was

a member of the American College of Physicians
and the Virginia Medical Association and was a
board-certified physician in internal medicine.

JAMES EDWIN BISBORT, ’70, of Decatur, Ga.,
died Nov. 9, 1989. Bisbort attended W&L for one
year before transferring to the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. From 1970 to 1972 he
served in the Peace Corps as a teacher assigned
to Afghanistan.

ROBERT CORDELL LEE, ’70, a staff member
of the Henrico County Planning Department and
an award-winning sculptor, died Oct. 8, 1989, dur-
ing a trip to Yugoslavia. Lee, who majored in
economics at W&L, spent most of his professional
career working for city government. After gradua-
tion, he went to work for Esso in Roanoke, and
later he earned a master’s degree in urban and
regional planning from Virginia Tech. He worked
as a land use planner for the Region D Council
of Governments in Boone, N.C., and then took
a position as a research assistant in housing at Ap-
palachian State University in Boone. In 1981 he
was appointed city planner for Buena Vista, Va.
He then moved to Bristol, Tenn., where he worked
as a city planner. While in Tennessee he also taught
evening classes at Bristol College. In his spare time
Lee pursued an interest in sculpture, and he recent-
ly won an art contest sponsored by /nternational
Sculpture magazine and had his work displayed
at the House of Humor and Satire in Gobravo,
Bulgaria.

JOHN FREDERICK FREUND, ’71, of Avon,
Conn., died June 18, 1989.

MARK JAY MENNEL, ’75, died Aug. 7, 1989.
He had been an editor with the Red Cross and was
living in Washington, D.C.

TODD CARPER SMITH, ’83, a reporter for the
Tampa Tribune, died Nov. 21, 1989. Smith had
been in Uchiza, Peru, doing research for a story
on drug trafficking and terrorism in the area. Of-

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

Unlike Christopher S. Moore [‘‘And Further-
more,’’ December 1989], I found Dr. Louis
Hodges’ baccalaureate sermon, ‘‘Authority and
Power’’ [September 1989], a moving and incisive
analysis of a crucial ethical problem. I thank the
editors for publishing it and I am delighted that
the class of ’89 were challenged to think, rather
than being lulled to sleep by the sort of bromides
which too often characterize baccalaureate
sermons.

Evidently Mr. Moore has forgotten that a
university is supposed to be a forum for all sorts
of ideas, where faculty members are free to ar-
ticulate their considered views on important and
controversial issues. He also seems to be shocked
that a professor of religion would apply ethical
judgments about actual examples of the misuse of
power! He also dismisses the evidence that Pro-
fessor Hodges presented to substantiate his
argument.

54 W&L

Moore’s charge that Hodges is ‘‘hypocritical’’
strikes me as patently untrue. There is no attempt
to assume a false appearance of virtue or goodness
in Hodges’ discussion and he makes it quite clear
that his insights are deeply rooted in the Judeo-
Christian religion, with its ‘‘bias’’ to the weak and
the poor. In fact, it seems to me that Dr. Hodges
would have been hypocritical if he had merely
resorted to expounding bland abstractions about
the relationships of power and authority and had
ignored concrete contemporary examples of the
abuse of power.

I am proud that W&L has professors like Louis
Hodges and Uncas McThenia who not only speak
out about their ethical convictions but who are also
willing to move outside the halls of academe to
serve those who may be the victims of injustice.
And I'd like to salute Ted Ludwig, class of ’89,
for his maturity and sensitivity to the call to be
a ‘‘better giver’’ and a ‘‘better servant’’ in our
society.

Finally, I trust that W&L will continue to give
us more stimulating contributions from the facul-

ficials believe guerrillas with the Shining Path, a
brutal Maoist group, kidnapped, tortured, and
killed Smith. Smith began his career in 1984 as q
reporter with the Inverness bureau of the St.
Petersburg Times. In 1986 he was transferred to
the paper’s Pasco County, Fla., bureau. In May
1987 he left the Times to become a foreign cor-
respondent. For several weeks he traveled with the
Nicaraguan Contras and published several articles
about the experience in the St. Petersburg Times
and the San Francisco Chronicle. Late in 1987
Smith joined the Tampa Tribune as a political
reporter. He left to spend a working vacation in
Peru on Nov. 7, 1989. Shortly after his death,
Howard Troxler of the Tampa Tribune wrote,
** _. . [Smith] wanted to know more than we have
tried to know about the scourge of our society,
narcotics. He thought there was an untold story
in the mountains of Peru. . . .And so he set out
on his vacation to find out for himself. He wanted
to write about what he learned, maybe in magazine
articles, maybe in this newspaper. He wanted to
learn, and to tell other people what he had
learned.”’

PHILIP GREGORY FEENEY, ’89L, an attorney
with McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe in Rich-
mond, died Jan. 6, 1990, in an automobile acci-
dent. At Washington and Lee he was a Burks
Scholar and a member of the International Moot
Court team.

 

Friends

 

 

 

JUANITA T. COX, a former housemother for the
Sigma Chi fraternity at W&L, died Dec. 7, 1989.
Cox, a longtime Lexington resident, was
housemother at Sigma Chi from 1954 to 1956.
From 1944 to 1946 she ran the Tinker Tea House
at Hollins College. Following her work as
housemother, she was a dietician at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital until her retirement in 1966.

Letters to the Editor

ty. WE know that neither the University nor the

editors have ‘‘official’’ opinions on many issues

but we certainly should welcome informed debate

about important subjects in a journal sponsored
by a university.

WILLIAM C. WiLBur, *37

St. Petersburg, Fla.

EDITOR:

Since my retirement I have been deeply in-
volved in volunteer work in my new home of
Yuma, Ariz. One of my projects is to serve as tour
guide-docent at our small but interesting Century
House Museum.

The other day as I was making brief introduc-
tory remarks to 30 fourth-grade students, I noticed
an 8-year-old wearing a Washington and Lee
University T-shirt.

I choked with astonishment and emotion,
forgetting my introduction to the museum. I held

~~ ee es

ot te i i i i

i

 

 

my captive audience as I told them about General
Robert E. Lee and George Washington’s gift that
paid for $14 per year of my college education. I
went on to tell them about the Honor System.
Perhaps | was recruiting the class of 2002.
| hope more W&L people of all ages will visit
our nice little town but—beware, that tour guide
will momentarily forget his duties and take great
pride in telling one and all the wonderful
Washington and Lee story.
JOHN R. BALDwin, ’50
Yuma, Ariz.

EDITOR:
Whatever it was that Louis Hodges was at-

tempting to say in the article [‘‘Authority and
Power’’] in the September 1989 issue lost its point
for me because of the gross inaccuracies in his
references to the Pittston Co. One can differ over
conclusions to be drawn from facts, but the facts
must be accurate!

He states that ‘‘Pittston had for years dumped
coal-waste refuse into a narrow hollow,”’ referring
to the Buffalo Creek disaster. This is not so; Pitt-
ston had only recently acquired that mine and
waste dump before the event and had had it in-
spected by federal mine inspectors who judged it
safe. Even though Pittston did not create the con-
dition, it nevertheless spent many millions of
dollars in reparations to those who suffered loss
from the dam break.

Hodges’ reference to the current strike between
Pittston and the UMWA similarly shows lack of
understanding of the facts. After many months of
fruitless bargaining on a new contract, the existing
contract expired and with it went the obligation
to make payments into any of the UMWA Trust
Funds which administer pension and health
benefits to all UMWA retirees. Various court
cases, the most recent in August, have said the
obligations of the employer cease and the Funds
are obligated to pay these medical benefits for
retirees when there is no new successor labor agree-
ment. The Funds have refused to honor their
obligation, and the UMWA has been unwilling to
assist its retiree-members in obtaining these
benefits.

Pittston offered, however, to continue paying
the retiree medical benefits if the Union would
agree not to strike, which was a threat the VMWA
was making daily at the bargaining table. The
union refused the companies’ offer. On June 8,
1989, when the union broke off all forms of
bargaining with the Pittston Coal Group com-
panies, there was an impasse in negotiations, and
the companies exercised their legal right to imple-
ment their last contract proposal to the union. The
companies did implement the proposal at their
Operations on June 10, 1989, and medical benefits
for retirees are included in the proposal.

As | understand the issues, Pittston has never
said it was abandoning any of its retirees. The com-
Panies have said repeatedly they will take care of
all their retirees, but they will not participate in
the UMWA’s ailing funds.

Under the implemented contract proposal Pitt-
ston has with its current employees, medical
benefits are provided by Pittston under a modern
80/20 plan. This provides coverage of 80 percent
after a deductible is met and 100 percent coverage
after a cap of $500 per employee and $1,000 per
family. This is not a 100 percent, first-dollar
Overage plan. What employer anywhere has a
benefit plan that pays the first dollar of medical
€xpense? This is what the union wants.

a

The union most assuredly is aware of the long
list of legal cases that deny its position in this
medical benefits controversy, yet it persists in at-
tempting to bend Pittston to its will.

Who is trying to break whom?

ROBERT H. Moore Jr., ’44
Bluefield, W.Va.

EDITOR:

Now almost three decades beyond my own time
at W&L, the still clear—and very pleasant—
memories of Professor B. S. ‘‘Steve’’ Stephenson
immediately pull up those long-ago years. Your
recent profile of this fine teacher and gracious host
[‘‘For the Love of Teaching,’’ December 1989]
brought to my mind several scenes as the ’60s were
just beginning:

¢ His vaguely ‘‘menacing’’ countenance my
first day of German in duPont Hall, me fidgeting
on being introduced to this harsh—but not total-
ly strange-sounding—language (I was, after all, a
French major). Steve, presuming (correctly) that
I was at least mildly acquainted with Yiddish,
quickly hurled (so it then seemed) some familiar-
sounding German adverbs at me, picking up (with
that curious, puckish grin of his) on my Germanic
last name, I suppose. To put me at ease, though,
he then moved his attention to a fair-haired
classmate, one Jimmie T. Sylvester, whose name
he quickly germanized as Si/bervest. German came
a lot easier to my ears thereafter.

¢ His splendid (1 can still mimic it) baritone
chuckle as I, standing at the door to his office,
asked him some puerile question from my
Lesebuch fur Anfanger.

¢ His marvelous gemutlichkeit, allowing my
musical longing to engage his terrific knowledge
of the classical repertoire, and roam through his
collection of recordings.

© His kindness and his concern for others. Two
memories: Directing me immediately upon my ar-
rival during my first alumni revisit to pay farewell
respects to another teacher, George Irwin, then on
his deathbed; and a wonderful and wacky even-
ing at his ‘‘barn’’ when my mother and he grand-
ly ‘‘toasted’’ Thomas Mann for his superior
fiction.

Thanks for profiling Steve. It reminded me of
the singular importance of individuals—teachers
and mentors like him, Ed Hamer, and Rob
Stewart—to my special memories of life and learn-
ing at Washington and Lee.

JAMES N. APPLEBAUM, ’62
Silver Spring, Md.

EDITOR:

Congratulations on the crisp bleed cover of
your December issue. The articles inside were also
stimulating—so refreshing from some other alumni
magazines.

With reference to Prof. Stephenson’s tip of the
hat to the brilliant students of ’54, about that time
there was another name with which to conjure. I
kept in touch with Dr. George Foster, an English
teacher, who was an inspiration, and he told me
he had a chap who could write named ‘‘Tom
Wolfe. . .not the Tom Wolfe, but you’ll be hear-
ing more from him.”’

Tuomas S. Hook, °49
Baltimore, Md.

EDITOR:

I used to wonder why the University of Virginia
students called us ‘‘minks,’’ so I asked the ques-
tion of an old friend, Noble Marshall, who was
president of the U.Va. student body about 1935
or 1936.

Noble told me that W&L had one claim to
fame—they were about the finest-looking student
body in the country, because they wore coats and
ties at all times. He said minks were about the
finest-looking animals in the country because of
their luxuriant fur coats.

He said both were sneaky and untrustworthy.
**You can’t trust a mink around a henhouse, and
you can’t trust a W&L student anyplace, especially
when your girlfriend is involved.’’

I have read many books about my beloved
Washington and Lee, but none of the authors has
ever mentioned this ‘‘fact.’’

DUANE BERRY, °37
San Antonio, Texas

EDITOR:

First, let me congratulate you on the new look
you’ve given the magazine. It’s brighter, more col-
orful, more interesting and easier on the eye than
ever before.

And will you let me say thanks via your col-
umns to those dozens of people—colleagues,
former students, classmates, fraternity brothers,
other friends—who’ve written me following
publication of the article [‘‘For the Love of
Teaching,’’ December 1989]? No, I’m not retir-
ing quite yet, but by the time I do, I hope to have
written each of them personally or, better still, to
have thanked each right here on our campus.

I’m in the debt of so many splendid people.

STEVE STEPHENSON, °42
Lexington, Va.

EDITOR:

Ever since the September 1989 issue arrived
here, I’ve wanted to write and tell you how
wonderful the alumni magazine looks and how
good the writing has become. The design is very
appealing, and your choice of articles has made
the magazine worth keeping around or clipping
pieces for posterity.

So, thank you for the good work you’re doing!

ROGER PAINE, ’64
Cambridge, Mass.

A line was inadvertently omitted from the ar-
ticle ‘‘Birney, Broadus, Marks named to Board of
Trustees’’ in the December 1989 issue of W&L.
The paragraph should have read, ‘‘Broadus serves
as a W&L class agent and as a member of the
board of advisers for W&L’s School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics and is a member of the
advisory board for W&L’s Institute for Executives
and the long-range planning committee for the
University’s special programs.’’

Also, the credit line was incorrect on several
photos used in the article ‘‘The Nazis’ Early Days’”’
in the December 1989 issue. The credit line should
have said simply, ‘‘The George C. Marshall
Research Library.’’ The Marshall Foundation,
which owns and operates the Marshall Library, is
a tax-exempt, educational organization and is
governed by an independent board of trustees.

WE&L regrets the errors.

W&L 55

 

eS

Ree a

Nese

HONORING

THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

0
0 Le: Fae 1960
5 O80 Ciao

 

 

 

 

 

Thursday evening, May 10

Reunion Keynote Address

Guest Speaker, Mr. Ross V. Hersey,
‘40—Motivational Humorist and Co-Chair of
the Class of 1940 Reunion Committee

Kriday, May 11

Reunion Seminars

“Hard Times: Current Issues in the Corrections
System”

“A Toast to Glasnost: New Developments in
Soviet-American Relations”

“Taking Turns: Dual-Career Couples and the
American Male”

“The New European Economic Community:
How Will It Affect Us?”

Picnic Luncheon

Cocktails with the Faculty: Honoring Gerard
M. Doyon, Professor of Art (1968-1990), and
Henry Eugene King, Professor of Psychology
(1977-1990), both of whom will retire at the
end of the 1989-90 session

Buffet Dinner

Reunion Dance featuring the Johnny McClenon

Big Band

Saturday, May 12

Annual Meeting of the Law School Association
in Lee Chapel

General Alumni Association Meeting in Lee
Chapel

Picnic Luncheon

Class Banquets and Parties

 

The 1990
W&L

Learning Vacations
for Alumni, Parents,
and Friends

 

 
  
 
    

bi -

Yyyoi
is ' ; Me A :
‘tae, ’ > ¢ »

Tn
Ag ey NT Ape’

 

For further information, contact:

Office of Special Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-8723

 

SPAIN: FROM FERDINAND TO FRANCO (ULY 8-14)

A brisk history of Spain, from the late fifteenth century and the Spanish Empire to
modern Spain. Discussions of Spanish colonialism in the Americas, the Spanish Civil
War, and recent political developments, as well as the literature and art of Spain. This
program will anticipate an Alumni College Abroad to Spain in 1991. Faculty include
Larry Boetsch, David Parker, Gerard Doyon, and Charles Powell of University Col-
lege, Oxford.

WHODUNITS: REFLECTIONS ON THE ART
OF MYSTERY JULY 15-21)

A fun-filled tour of several classic and modern examples of crime and detective fic-
tion. Readings include works by such celebrated writers as Dashiell Hammet and Agatha
Christie, as well as more recent craftsmen, including Elmore Leonard, Tony Hiller-
man, and Amanda Cross. Talks by W&L’s Barbara Brown, Al Gordon, Judy McMor-
row, Pam Simpson, and Joe Thompson. Special guest faculty include Robin Winks
of Yale University, CASE ‘Professor of the Year’ Dennis Huston of the Rice Institute,
and the New York Times Book Review's Marilyn Stasio. Also featured will be a
distinguished mystery writer.

OUR GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT: CAN WE SAVE
THE FUTURE? (JULY 22-28)

A timely inquiry into several areas of environmental crisis, including water and at-
mospheric pollution and our diminishing natural resources, with a survey of social,
political, and scientific initiatives designed to rescue our ailing planet. A useful guide
to environmental issues for the layman, with W&L faculty Ed Spencer and Chuck Boggs,
and a variety of distinguished guest speakers.

 

Ask us about these W&L sponsored educational travel programs:

ROMANCE OF THE SEINE (MAY 29-JUNE 10)

with Jim Farrar, Jr.

VOYAGE TO BAVARIA AND THE OBERAMMERGAU
PASSION PLAY (UNE 26-JULY 10)

with Lamar and Nancy Cecil

CELTS & KILTS: IRELAND AND SCOTLAND (AUGUST 9-25)
with Ed Spencer

ALASKA’S COASTAL WILDERNESS (AUGUST 17-27)

with David McCrone, Pam Simpson, and John Wilson

WINGS OVER THE NILE (OCTOBER 14-27)
with Bill Jenks

 

 

=

 

    

“

U.S. Post
PAID
alee Gg ogra eM 2
oe . Cincinnati, OF

  
  

 

ry a
4

.

- s
ed . " , i ’
7 een th a e ©: i - ‘e
A aa A 7
- - ’ wa} be
a
a ae *, +
" om
p -
aii ae ‘af

z ; 2
*, ome
a taal ca
. - YU oul
” -
Se “ we
-
a,
~ -
= ~ | ithe
q oe F -
 o “
al a
; - a J es
en
~ . = > ad
- ‘
: wo
= . ‘
* - Ss
~—ywr= a
ra _
. .
2
os .
ae : » y
of ,
a _ ad
~ 5
-
ee
4 E ; oo a on 4
Co
2 a . Ag: '
* hel ° “ - .
. ~, . 7 .
“  . Ai )
La .
a : ; P
& : ” - a: :
y 7 - a ' . 9 ~%
P Lf ood ae 7
‘ . .
° «= - ~  "y sk.
7 ™ 7 .
—-
. oa -- ~ ell
7 aad Ss J
oe
- ' J
hd ey ¥
. oe
F 7
- BI < -
. ~ Ag
fe)

ee ; . P s
: f ; a ~ A a’ : F : »
' : ‘ SG P . ad a J
- / _, 4 _ :
yj 1 A , ‘ v - RY nf : bs *
- » s ra es ao e
j : wake
i
; if ’ ; A at hi
; / _ od =
/ vad bd ' j
- af - ;
- Ca ‘ be M4 9
A a ve J ' - aot
a . - , ae

