5
:
Zz.

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 56, Number 7, November 1981

William C. Washburn, ’40 ................cccccecccceeeeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna .............. cece cee ee eee Associate Editor
Robert P. Fure .................. ccc cccceeeee eee ees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ...... 0. c cece ec ene ee eee es Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73 ..................ccccc cece es Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Trustee Changes ...............cceecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenees 1
Gallery of Generosity ................ cece eee eeeeeee eee ees 4
W&L’s Mountain Man .............. ccc cece cece cece ees 7
Geology Summer Research ...................0cceeeeeeees 9
The Silent Disease ............... ccc cece cece cece cece eees 11
Surgeon Poet, A Profile ..................cccceeeeeeeee eens 15
A Fall Album ............00 0 ccc e cece eee eees 18
Secret of a Perfect Season ............ 0... cc cecce cece ee ees 20
WEL, Gazette ooo... ccc ek ccc veccen eevee dacsuasonigeceus 22
Chapter News ............ccccsccccscctssccedscceecegnebbeten 26
Cass NOLES ooo eiccc cece sccscccisincsdstenscadealeises tues 30
PA PAEMIOTIAMN 2. ooo. cic d eg ace cosas eceeeensgs ie re eeeues 35

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 751, Nashville, Tenn.
President

JOHN H. McCormack Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
Vice President

W. DONALD Bain, 749, Spartanburg, S.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, *40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.

OwEN H. HArpeErR, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.

SIDMON J. KAPLAN, °56, Cleveland, Ohio

G. RUSSELL LApD, ’57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, 753, Tunica, Miss.

WILLIAM C. NorRMAN Jr., 756, Crossett, Ark.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.

e

ON THE COVER: James M. Ballengee (left), new rector
of the Board of Trustees, with E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.,
the retiring rector. This change in command took place
at the board’s annual fall meeting. Besides Nuckols, two
other trustees retired, and two new trustees were elected.
A report on the meeting starts on the opposite page. Pho-
tograph by Tamara Teal.

 

 

 

 

Trustee Changes

Ballengee is New Rector; Nuckols, Warner, Mrs. Martin Retire; Hough, Touchton Elected

James M. Ballengee, a leading
Philadelphia businessman, has been elected
rector of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee.

Ballengee succeeds E. Marshall Nuckols
Jr. in the position of rector, which is the
equivalent at Washington and Lee to
chairman of the board. The term ‘‘rector’’ is
traced back to the founding in 1749 of
Augusta Academy, from which the
University evolved.

Ballengee’s election as rector was one of
a number of changes that took place in the
composition of W&L’s board during the
annual autumn meeting held on the campus.

In addition to Nuckols, two other trustees
retired from the board: Mrs. James Bland
Martin of Gloucester, Va., and Jack W.
Warner of Tuscaloosa, Ala.

Meantime, two new trustees were elected
to initial six-year terms on the board. They
are C. Royce Hough, senior vice president
and manager of corporate banking
administration for Wachovia Bank & Trust
Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C., and J. Thomas
Touchton, managing partner of The Witt Co.
in Tampa, Fla.

The board’s meeting coincided with the
11th annual Special Alumni Conference,
which involved 55 alumni and their families
who returned to the campus for a series of
seminars and meetings to discuss the state of
the University.

The new rector is president and chairman
of the Enterra Corp. which has its
headquarters in Radnor, Pa., just outside
Philadelphia. Enterra is a holding company
with non-regulated energy services, fire
protection, and specialty services
subsidiaries.

Ballengee, who has been a trustee of
Washington and Lee since 1978, graduated
from the W&L School of Law in 1948. He
graduated first in his class and was editor of
the Law Review. He was elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa and in the
Order of the Coif, the legal honor society.

A native of Charleston, W.Va.,
Ballengee received his bachelor’s degree
from Morris Harvey College in Charleston,
W.Va. He was awarded an honorary degree
by Morris Harvey in 1972.

Following his graduation from law
school, Ballengee practiced law in

 

 

 

Charleston for nine years. In 1957, he
became associate counsel of Sears, Roebuck
& Co. He was named general attorney and
assistant secretary of Sears in 1961, but left
that post in 1962 to become president and
chairman of the Philadelphia Suburban Water
Co., which later became a subsidiary of
Philadelphia Suburban Corp. when that
company was formed in 1968 with Ballengee
as its president and chairman.

The company was restructured in 1981
when Ballengee became president and
chairman of Enterra Corp.

Active in numerous civic activities in
Philadelphia, Ballengee has been director of
the Pennsylvania State Chamber of
Commerce. He is a past president of the
Metropolitan Board of the YMCA and has
been particularly active in the Arthritis
Foundation. He is a trustee of the
Philadelphia Museum of Art.

Ballengee and his wife, the former Jo

New rector James M. Ballengee is congratulated by outgoing rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.

 

Mcllhattan, have three children—James
Morrow Jr., a 1972 graduate of Washington
and Lee; Elizabeth Ann, and Sarah Jo.

Announcement of Ballengee’s election
came at the end of the trustees’ meeting.
Earlier in the weekend at a trustees dinner
honoring the Special Alumni Conference
delegates, the retiring members of the board
were recognized for their outstanding service
to the University.

Nuckols, formerly senior vice president
of Campbell Soup Co., had been rector for
seven years. Now a resident of Weston, Vt.,
Nuckols was elected to board membership in
1969. He was the first trustee nominated by
vote of the Alumni Association membership.

A 1933 B.A. and 1935 law graduate of
the University, Nuckols was national
president of the Alumni Association in 1965-
66 and created the concept of the Special
Alumni Conference.

Recognizing Nuckols’ many

accomplishments as rector, the board adopted
a resolution designating him rector emeritus:

‘*When future historians extend the
chronicle of Washington and Lee University,
they will take special note of those who held
the highest positions of responsibility at
times of great institutional advancement.
They will focus on the name of E. Marshall
Nuckols Jr., for the annals of the
University’s trustees will reveal that the
seven years he was rector of the board
constitute a period of unprecedented
enrichment of Washington and Lee’s strength
and vigor. The cause and effect relationship
will not escape the scholars’ attention.

‘“The University’s achievements of the
development decade, the essential effective
involvement of the trustees, the wise
application of Washington and Lee’s new
financial vigor—all reflect the quality of
leadership exercised by Marshall Nuckols on
behalf of the University and his fellow
trustees. . . . All that Marshall has done for
us and for Washington and Lee has been
flavored by the warmth of his friendship, the
keenness of his wit, and the broad range of
his interests. His vitality is infectious, as is
that of his lovely (wife) Pat. When they
dance the Charleston all others stand back
and watch in envious admiration. .. .”’

2

Retiring trustees Jack W. Warner, Mrs. James Bland Martin, and E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. with President Huntley

Mrs. Martin, past president of the Garden
Club of Virginia, was elected to the board in
1978. She was instrumental in the re-
landscaping of Lee Chapel and is a member-
at-large of The Garden Club of America,
having served as chairman of that
organization.

She currently serves on the boards of
Gloucester County Day School and Historic
Christ Church in Irvington, Va. She is the
only American trustee of the Tradescant
Trust of London, England. Her husband is a
1931 Washington and Lee law graduate and
was formerly senior partner in the law firm
of Martin, Hicks and Ingles.

The trustees’ resolution, designating Mrs.
Martin as trustee emeritus, praised her
infectious charm and her effectiveness as a
trustee:

‘Lovely, vivacious, and charming, Teen
Martin perks up us all with her joie de vivre;
her youthful vigor is contagious in the
extreme.

‘*And if this were all that Teen has done
for her fellow trustees in the short three and a
half years of her service, it would have
justified her election many times over. But
she brought to this board, as well, qualities
of effective trusteeship that have
characterized only the best of those

 

privileged to serve Washington and Lee in
this manner. No one has been more dedicated
to the achievement of the University’s goals,
no one has been more willing to shoulder a
fair share of the load, no one has worked
more diligently. Her effectiveness as a
trustee, especially when measured against the
brevity of her tenure, inspires us all. How
much we have come to depend upon both the
soundness and the sensitivity of her views.”’

Warner, a 1941 W&L graduate and a
member of the board since 1970, is chairman
and president of Gulf States Paper Corp. in
Tuscaloosa, Ala. Warner Center, the
University’s expanded athletic facility, is
named in honor of Warner, who has been a
generous benefactor of the University.

Extremely active in Alabama business
affairs, Warner is former president of the
Alabama Chamber of Commerce and is or
has been a director of several companies, two
Tuscaloosa banks, and the Birmingham
branch of the Federal Reserve Bank.

He is the developer of the North River
complex near Tuscaloosa, which consists of
a yacht club, a golf club, a resort, a
convention center, and home sites. A self-
confessed ‘‘art-aholic,’’ Warner’s eclectic
collection of art is displayed in the corporate
headquarters building of Gulf States Paper

 

New trustee C. Royce Hough

and at North River.

The trustees’ resolution in Warner’s
honor cited his many contributions to the
University during the current development
program:

‘‘For twelve years his distinctive
presence has both enriched and enlivened our
meetings. We have laughed with him, and
we have learned from him. And from his
love of Washington and Lee we draw the
kind of inspiration that assures the future of
our University.

‘By naming our new and expanded
gymnasium facilities in his honor, the Board
of Trustees suggested the debt of gratitude
that we and all members of the Washington
and Lee family owe to Jack Westervelt
Warner. But this only suggests, not defines.
There is no building here, or elsewhere, that
can represent adequately all that Jack Warner
has meant to his University. He has given
generously of his treasure and his time in
working for the success of a development
program he helped plan and implement. His
commitment toward the goals of an
approaching decade virtually signaled the
Start of the effort itself, bringing
encouragement and confidence to a young,
new President. Subsequently, either alone or
in tandem with other trustees, Jack Warner

 

New trustee J. Thomas Touchton

has exercised his considerable powers of
persuasion on behalf of his alma mater, with
heartening results.’’

Hough and Touchton, the new trustees,
are both Washington and Lee graduates.

Hough, who was nominated for his
trusteeship by vote of his fellow alumni,
received his B.S. degree in commerce in
1959. He was valedictorian of his class and
was elected to both Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa. He earned a master’s
degree in business administration from
Cornell University in 1961 and participated
in The Executive Program at the University
of Virginia in 1969.

A native of Washington, D.C., Hough
has been extremely active in alumni activities
at Washington and Lee. He was president of
the Alumni Association in 1978 and was
chairman of the University’s Annual Fund
program in 1978-79.

Hough, who has been with Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co. since 1963, is currently on
the board of directors of Hickory Furniture
Co. in Hickory, N.C. He is a trustee and past
president of the Nature Science Center and is
a trustee of Amos Cottage, both in Winston-
Salem. He is president of the Audubon
Society of Forsyth County and is a
vestryman and treasurer of St. Paul’s

Episcopal Church in Winston-Salem.

Hough and his wife, the former Harriet
Houston of Memphis, Tenn., have three
sons—Michael, Ben, and Mark.

Touchton received his B.A. from W&L
in 1960 with a major in political science.
Like Hough, Touchton has been involved in
W&L alumni activities, serving as president
of the Florida West Coast Chapter of the
We&L Alumni, Inc., in 1969-70, as a director
of the Alumni Association from 1973
through 1977, and as vice president of the
Alumni Association in 1976-77.

Besides being a managing partner of The
Witt Co., a private investment firm in
Tampa, Touchton is a trustee or director of
several major corporations, including the
Merrill Lynch Ready Assets Trust.

He is past president of the Financial
Analysts Society of Central Florida, a former
trustee of the University of Tampa, past
president of the St. Joseph’s Hospital
Development Council, a former trustee of
the University of Tampa Endowments, past
president of Patrons of St. John’s Parish Day
School, Inc., and a member of the Greater
Tampa Chamber of Commerce.

Touchton and his wife, the former
Lavinia Lee Witt, have two children—
Lavinia and John.

Gallery of Generosity

Recent Gifts to the University Help Strengthen Its Academic Program

 

Dora L. Lewis
endows honor
scholarships

 

With obvious fondness, Mrs. Dora L.
Lewis recalls the many weekends that her
Richmond home was turned into a
dormitory-away-from-the-dormitory for
Washington and Lee’s basketball team.

**My son, Sydney, used to bring the
whole team home to Richmond with him,”’
she remembers. **And I was always so very
impressed by those young men and how
much they seemed to be enjoying what they
were doing at Washington and Lee.’’

Those memories plus her desire ‘‘to help
any deserving student who wanted to get a
Washington and Lee education”’ resulted in a
gift of $250,000 that Mrs. Lewis made to the
University earlier this year.

That generous gift has been used to
establish an endowed scholarship program
that will fund a limited number of tuition-
free scholarships each year.

Four Dora L. Lewis Scholarships were
awarded in September to members of
Washington and Lee’s Class of ’85. Those
four students will continue to receive the full
scholarships throughout their four years at
Washington and Lee, provided each
maintains a satisfactory personal and
academic record.

The first four Lewis Scholars are Jeffrey
David Dixon of Duncan, Okla.; Scott Joseph
Henderson of Marysville, Ohio; John Harold
Moore of Columbia, S.C.; and Peter
Thornton Wilbanks of Seaford, Del.

The scholarships are designed to
recognize exceptional achievement in all
areas of endeavor. While candidates for
Lewis Scholarships must necessarily present
exceptional records of academic
achievement, their academic performance is
only one of the considerations used in
selecting Lewis Scholars.

In reviewing applications, the Honor
Scholarships Committee looks for evidence
of leadership in student government, the arts,
athletics, or community affairs, and for the
potential to continue in such a leadership role

4

 

at Washington and Lee.

The Lewis Scholarship program becomes
an integral part of the University’s overall
program of Honor Scholarships, those
financial awards based primarily on merit
and designed to attract to the University
young men who demonstrate unusual
promise for future service and leadership.

‘*My husband [the late Julius B. Lewis]
was extremely interested in helping people
further their education. He was particularly
active in making donations to teachers so that
they would be able to work toward advanced
degrees,’’ Mrs. Lewis said. ‘“‘By making the
gift I have made to Washington and Lee, I
am carrying on the tradition my husband
set.”’

A native of Richmond, Mrs. Lewis is
president of the New Standard Publishing
Company, Inc. For many years, she served
as secretary and treasurer of the Richmond-
based Best Products Company, Inc. She
remains active in the management of that
company today.

Mrs. Lewis has been exceedingly active
and generous in her support of various
charities in the Richmond area. Chief among
those is the Crippled Children’s Hospital in
Richmond.

She has also been a strong supporter of
the Jewish Center of Richmond, the Beth
Shalom Home for the Aged, the Virginia
Society for the Performing Arts, and the

Richmond Historical Society. She is active in
Temple Beth El Synagogue.

Mrs. Lewis’ son, Sydney, is a 1941
graduate of the University and currently
serves on the Board of Trustees.

 

Anthropology
scholars program
honors Leyburn

 

Nearly a decade has passed since Dr.
James G. Leyburn taught his last class at
Washington and Lee. And though he has
been gone, Leyburn is certainly not forgotten
at the University.

If anything, the legacy of dedication to
scholarship that Leyburn established for
Washington and Lee students has been
strengthened over the past decade—a decade
of reflection on his contributions.

Fittingly, Leyburn is now to be
recognized at Washington and Lee through
the establishment of a new program to
support student research in anthropology.

The University has already received three
anonymous gifts totaling $135,000 to
establish an endowment that will fund the
Leyburn Scholar Program.

Leyburn was named Dean of the
University in 1947 after 20 distinguished
years on the sociology faculty at Yale. As
dean he offered the University a series of
bold challenges, which were part of what
became known as the Leyburn Plan—a
blueprint for strengthening the University’s
academic standards and making the
curriculum more truly liberal. He
relinquished his duties as dean in 1955,
choosing to devote all his time and
considerable talent to teaching. He was head
of the sociology/anthropology department
until 1967 and retired from active teaching in
June 1972.

While his contributions to Washington
and Lee were myriad, one of Leyburn’s more
important contributions was his development
of teaching and research in anthropology.

The Leyburn Scholar Program is
designed to further the study of and research
in anthropology by enabling the University

to provide stipends that will be competitive
with those supporting student research in
anthropology at other institutions. Most of
that funding will support summer field
research engaged in by Washington and Lee
undergraduates. But this will certainly not
preclude the possibility of using the funds for
student research conducted during the
academic year.

Washington and Lee alumni and students
from other institutions who have made a
commitment to projects in anthropology at
the University would be eligible for support.
Funds could also be used for the purchase of
equipment and to support the publication of
reports on research the Leyburn Scholars’
program has supported.

Without question, the program is
precisely the sort Leyburn would want—
indeed, expect—for the University.

‘*The pursuit of excellence among its
students and the encouragement of their
scholarship are among the primary purposes
of a university,’’ Leyburn said, responding
to the establishment of the program in his
name.

‘‘It pleases me greatly to know that
students in anthropology, thanks to the
Scholars Program, will now have both the
incentive and the means to do scholarly
research. To witness their progress from
initial interest in a subject, through
concentrated study, to independent and
original research, is the happiest experience a
teacher can have. It is an honor to have my
name attached to a program that makes
possible such intellectual progress.

‘‘T am grateful to those who have
endowed the Scholars Program, to the
anthropologists who sponsor it, and to the
university that fosters student research.’”’

Although the $135,000 endowment is

impressive, the costs involved with research
is considerable. Consequently, additional
gifts not only would enable the University to
expand the important program, but would
also serve as an enduring tribute to one of
Washington and Lee’s most distinguished
scholars, James G. Leyburn.

Gifts to the Leyburn Scholars Program as
well as requests for further information about
the endowment should be directed to the
Office of Development at Washington and
Lee.

 

Rare books reading
room named in honor
of Boatwrights

 

John G. Boatwright of Dan’s Hill,
Danville, Va., Washington and Lee Class of
1915, has made a $250,000 gift to the
University in memory of his wife, Mary
Archer Glass Boatwright, and their son, Dr.
Robert McDearmon Boatwright, who
graduated from W&L in 1942.

In recognition of this splendid gift, the
rare books reading room in the University
Library will be named The Boatwright
Room. A plaque recognizing Mr.
Boatwright’s gift will be placed in that room.

It is particularly appropriate that the rare
books reading room be named for the
Boatwrights. Mrs. Boatwright established a
special collection in the library in memory of
her son, who died on Nov. 4, 1962. Her
purpose in establishing The Boatwright
Collection was to provide funds for books of
exceptional beauty which the library would
not otherwise be able to purchase. The books

 

Dr. James G. Leyburn

in the collection bear Dr. Boatwright’s name
and are a vital portion of the library’s
holdings. The Boatwright Collection now
numbers more than 275 volumes.

Commenting recently on the significance
of The Boatwright Collection, Washington
and Lee head librarian Maurice Leach said:
**Mrs. Boatwright’s gifts are appreciated and
valued by the faculty, students, and alumni
of this campus. We are grateful for Mr.
Boatwright’s magnificent gift which will be
so handsomely recognized in the naming of
one of the library’s major physical areas.’’

Mrs. Boatwright was the daughter of the
late Senator Carter Glass, former senior
senator from Virginia and former secretary of
the treasury under Woodrow Wilson. He was
president of Carter Glass & Sons Publishers
Inc., publishers of the Lynchburg (Va.) News
and Daily Advance.

Dr. Robert McDearmon Boatwright
entered Washington and Lee after graduating
from Woodberry Forest School. He studied
medicine at the University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, earning his M.D. degree
in 1945. After serving an internship at
Delaware Hospital in Wilmington, Del., he
entered the medical corps of the U.S. Army
and served until 1948 when he returned to
Philadelphia to pursue further graduate
studies. He became a diplomate in
otolaryngology and further specialized in
bronchology. He had a private practice in
Philadelphia and was on the staff of four of
that city’s hospitals.

John G. Boatwright is a former president
of Dibrell Brothers Inc. and was for many
years associated with the leaf tobacco
industry. Dan’s Hill, the Boatwright’s home
near Danville, is well known both for the
beauty of its gardens and its historic
significance.

 

$62-million
development effort
nears success

With approximately seven weeks re-
maining (at press time) before the tar-
geted Dec. 1 completion of the decade-
long Development Program, the Board
of Trustees has announced that only $1.1
million remains to be raised in order to
achieve victory in the historic effort. Any
gift or pledge to the Annual Fund or for
a capital purpose (construction or en-
dowment) received by Dec. 31 will be
included and recognized as having con-
tributed to securing the future of Wash-
ington and Lee during the period covered
by the program.

 

 

 

 

Books from the University Library’ s Boatwright Collection

The rare books reading room which will
be named in recognition of Mr. Boatwright’s
gifts features well-appointed facilities for the
display of the University’s rare book
collection, including those volumes in The
Boatwright Collection. It provides a
comfortable area for seminars and other
scholarly gatherings.

‘*We are indeed appreciative of Mr.
Boatwright’s gift and are honored to name
The Boatwright Room in memory of Mrs.
Boatwright and their son, Dr. Robert
McDearmon Boatwright,’’ said Washington
and Lee President Robert E. R. Huntley.
‘The Boatwright Room will be, for many
years to come, a place that students, faculty,
alumni, and friends will use, just as The
Boatwright Collection has become an
invaluable and beautiful addition to the

library.”’

 

Ottenheimers
establish law
scholarships

 

When Gus Ottenheimer was a student in
Washington and Lee’s School of Law, he
was a member of the University’s
intercollegiate debate team.

That was 64 years ago. But Ottenheimer
still has the Delta Sigma Rho key he earned
for his prowess as a debator. Not only does
he have the key, he wears it daily as a
reminder of his W&L experiences.

Now the University is proud to have
another sort of reminder of Ottenheimer’s

6

W&L experience.

In August, the Ottenheimer Brothers
Foundation of Little Rock, Ark., established
a $25,000 endowed scholarship fund for the
law school.

Gus Ottenheimer, who graduated from
the W&L law school in 1917, is director of
Ottenheimer Brothers Foundation. He and
his brother, Leonard, are in the investment
and real estate business in Little Rock.

The $25,000 endowment will be used to
fund the Ottenheimer Brothers Scholarship,
which will be awarded annually to a W&L
law student from Arkansas.

The first Ottenheimer Brothers
Scholarship was awarded in August to David

 

Gus and Leonard Ottenheimer

Herbert Pennington, a native of Fayetteville,
Ark. Pennington graduated from the
University of Arkansas where he majored in
political science and was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa.

Gus Ottenheimer was 20 years old when
he earned his law degree from W&L.
Following his graduation, he practiced law
for six years in Little Rock before moving to
Providence, R.I., where he spent three years
as vice president of a business firm.

He returned to Little Rock to enter
business with his brother, Leonard. The
result was the Ottenheimer Brothers
Manufacturing Co., which manufactured
ladies ready-to-wear for about 30 years and
employed 800 workers when the brothers
sold the concern in 1955.

The Ottenheimer brothers continued their
business activities, including the
development of ‘‘Cloverdale,’’ a subdivision
that opened up the growth of southwest Little
Rock where the Ottenheimers built about 450
homes.

In spite of the brothers’ ages—Gus is 84,
Leonard is 89—their company, Ottenheimer
Brothers, remains active today in various kinds
of investments.

Long an avid supporter of higher
education, Gus Ottenheimer was active in the
development of the University of Arkansas at
Little Rock. In the 1950s, he was chairman
of a committee that recommended changing
Little Rock Junior College to a four-year
institution. After that was accomplished in
1957, he headed a committee that
recommended the merger of the Little Rock
University with the University of Arkansas;
that plan was adopted by the state legislature
in 1969.

In 1978, Gus Ottenheimer was awarded
an honorary doctor of law degree by the
University of Arkansas at Little Rock. He is
currently a member of that university’s
development council.

Active in numerous civic activities in
Little Rock, Gus Ottenheimer is past director
of the Arkansas Chamber of Commerce and
past chairman of the board of the
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission. He
is past president and chairman of the board
of Associated Industries of Arkansas.

In 1935, Gus Ottenheimer founded the
Institute for International Understanding
which later was adopted and sponsored by
Rotary International. The program developed
an annual attendance in excess of one
million, which included activities in Europe.

Gus Ottenheimer has been listed in
Who’s Who in America for a number of
years. He was a director of the National
Association of Manufacturers for nine years,
two of which were by presidential
appointment as a director-at-large
representing manufacturers in all the states.

by Robert Fure

W&L’s Mountain Man

Ed Spencer Has Been Studying the Geological Structure of the Blue Ridge for 25 Years

The geology department is in the
basement of Howe Hall. It’s easy to find:
locate the campus observatory, and then,
following the natural order of things,
descend. At the bottom of the stairwell you’ll
find a seismograph, ticking to the rumblings
of inner space. Turn right and pass the
seismic history of a couple of Columbian
earthquakes, some photographs of the Mt.
St. Helens ‘‘event,’’ and a few texturous,
incomprehensible maps. In the office around
the corner at the end of the hall, riding the
continental drift, sits Ed Spencer, head of the
department.

Down here, Spencer is close to his work.
He’s been studying the geological structure
of the Blue Ridge and the Valley for 25
years. A 1953 Washington and Lee graduate,
Spencer earned his Ph.D. at Columbia and
returned to W&L to teach geology in 1957.
He had spent some time in the mountains of
Montana trying to figure out how, some two
and a half billion years ago, the Beartooth
Mountains originated. ‘‘I’ve always been
interested in mountain-building. I wasn’t
intending to teach, but Marcellus Stowe
[then department head] needed some help, so
I agreed to come back for a year. I’ve been
here ever since.”’

A man of quiet enthusiasms, Dr. Spencer
allows that he has found here a professional
fulfillment he might have missed elsewhere.
‘Industry has always been attractive to
geologists. But teaching gives one both the
pleasure of working with students and the
Opportunity to do ‘other things.’ And the
geology here is really fascinating—quite
varied. In an afternoon’s drive, one can see a
tremendous variety of rock and sediment,
ranging from 200 million to 1.2 billion years
in age.”’

The numbers are mind-boggling. One
suspects that a special pleasure shared by
Spencer and his fellow geologists is the
contact their work allows them with
enchanting enormity and the broad spectrum
of earth-time. ‘‘Geologists have a somewhat
different perspective on the earth than most
people, especially through their sense of
time.

‘‘, . . It makes strict belief in Genesis

Ed Spencer
‘Quiet Enthusiasms’

 

Mountain Man

problematic. You won’t find many
fundamentalist geologists, though there are
some. I once met one on the edge of the
Grand Canyon. He was hard-pressed to prove
the earth was only 6,000 years old.”’

How does one think in billions of years,
or imagine a world without people or
familiar creatures—a world antedating even
the dinosaurs? One may begin with a mere
300 million years ago. Indeed everything
then is different.

Standing about where Lexington is today,
one would be on the shore of the Sea of
Iapetus—named for the father of Atlas, for
whom the later Atlantic was named. Iapetus
is already 300 million years old.
Approaching from the east for a collision that
will occur in another 100 million years or so,
the continent of Africa drifts slowly toward
the Western Hemisphere. Beneath one’s feet
is sedimentary deposit some six miles thick,
the organic residue of eons of marine life.

The theory is that when the northwest
coast of Africa collided with our continent it
closed off the Sea of Iapetus and caused a
massive uplift of the earth’s crust, a sort of
fender-bending that created a costal range of
mountains, among them the Blue Ridge.

‘*Some of the rock that had lain under
Iapetus seems to have gotten pushed up and
over the tremendous pile of sediment that
had built up over 400 million years.’’
Spencer continues without blinking, ‘“The
petroleum industry is quite interested in the
geologic formations around here. The
potential certainty exists for some huge traps
of oil and gas in the sediment under the Blue
Ridge. A similar fold in the earth’s crust in
Wyoming has lately revealed oil deposits that
some believe will rival the size of the
discoveries in the Middle East. So we may
not in fact have an energy problem in this
country.”’

Geologic time begins to make sense, but
mainly from a consumer’s standpoint. It is
easy to comprehend the ingredients and
cooking time for oil soup. But the earth itself
is another matter. How does one fathom the
forces baking and buckling the earth’s crust,
forces that are as old and as relentless as
time? Terra firma: terra flumens—
psychologically, it can be a little
disconcerting, as unsettling as earthquakes.

But none of this bothers Ed Spencer. It is

in fact his main delight—‘‘mountain-
building.’’ After a few pleasant speculations
on the potential oil wealth of the region, he
adds, ‘‘My objective is not to solve the
earth’s energy problem. It would be nice if
we found something that would help. But
mainly I want to know how the Blue Ridge
got that way.”’

Spencer wants to know how the Blue Ridge got that way.

 

Spencer arranged some assistance in
seeking a few answers to his questions this
past summer. The American Chemical
Society, through its petroleum research fund,
provided the money needed by Spencer and
some student assistants ‘‘to prepare some
very detailed cross sections of the Blue
Ridge and the Valley.’’ In one sense, the

project was a small phase of the petroleum
industry’s effort to determine the depth and
volume of the oil deposits in this region.

But to Spencer’s mind it provided above
all a good educational experience for the
students, along with groundwork for further
academic research. For 20 years, Spencer
and his colleagues have been mapping the
area’s rock formations. ‘‘This program has
helped us refine our work,”’ he said.

To measure the depth of the folded layers of
the earth’s crust, the expedition needed to
locate some of the region’s oldest rocks, the
1.2 billion-year-old basement rock, some of
which has been lifted some 20,000 feet in the
last few hundred million years to the earth’s
surface. It appears occasionally in the raw
flanks of local hills and mountains.

Identification of this rock was possible
through analysis of the rock’s internal
structure and the fossils trapped within it—
tiny non-vertebrate strangers from the dim
paleozoic era. Once this basement rock and
other strata are plotted on regional maps,
geologists can better define the dynamics of
mountain-building and assess the immense
forces contorting the earth’s crust.

Such titanic inquiry, conducted at the
scientist’s meticulous pace, is one of the
‘‘other things’’ besides teaching that Ed
Spencer enjoys. He is also working on his
sixth book, a basic geology text, and serves
actively in the Rockbridge Conservation
Council.

What can a geologist do for his
community? A couple of years ago, Spencer
gave a talk to the Rockbridge Historical
Society on the geological history of the
region. His paper served also to illustrate
how the natural environment has influenced
the development of Rockbridge County.

Spencer stressed—and continues to
stress—that development and conservation
can be compatible. ‘“Through careful thought
and planning,’’ he urges, “‘we can learn to
avoid danger to life, property, and the
aesthetic value of our surroundings as we
develop this region.”’

His message has taken hold in many
quarters. Through the good offices of Frank
Parsons, assistant to the President at W&L
and himself a member of the Rockbridge
Conservation Council, the talk has been
taped with music and slides. It continues to

be used widely by the area’s schools and
Civic groups.

‘‘T’m trying to alert people to the
problems we face because of our ignorance
of natural conditions. Dangerous situations
can develop quickly if people don’t know
where they are.’’ Spencer cites the tragic loss
of life and property during the 1969 flood as
evidence of the public’s neglect of
environmental forces. “‘Most of the major
industrial plants in Rockbridge County are
built on the flood plain of the Maury River.”’
Then he adds, in bleak irony, ‘‘Three days
after the ’69 flood, people were setting up
house trailers precisely where others had
been swept away.”’

Spencer also cites ground water pollution
as a potential hazard for the region. ‘‘Our
topography is such that improper disposal of
wastes and pollutants could affect a broad
area of our population.’’ But Spencer’s quiet
advocacy of conservationist principles
occasionally brightens. He is heartened by
the increasing use of the Appalachian Trail
by young people, and he soberly endorses an
expansion of our wilderness areas—though
the true wilderness, he points out, has
virtually disappeared from the Eastern United
States.

The qualification is typical of the earth
scientist. Ed Spencer’s ‘‘true wilderness’’ is
more likely time and the hinterland of the
pre-Cambrian era. Here, it is as near as the
Blue Ridge. His forays into its depths are
those of a pathfinder, for his mission is to
gather information that will bring people, his
students and colleagues, more easily along.

The work is all done cleanly and
precisely. House Mountain: composed of
quartzite at the top, which is why it is high.
Quartzite is resistant to erosion. North
Mountain and Short Hill have the same
material on top. The block of material
building the range was once 40,000 feet
thick. Half of it has gone down the rivers to
form the coastal plains east of the Blue
Ridge. The structure of House Mountain was
imparted to it 200-300 million years ago;
20,000 feet of material has been stripped
from its top by ground water solution of
limestone and topographical erosion.
Everything is temporary. The mountain is
solitary because ‘‘something has to be the
last thing to go.”’

by George G. Carey V, ’82

Summer Study
In Geology:
No Substitute
For Experience

George Carey, a senior geology-English
major, was one of six students participating
in Edward Spencer’s summer grant project.
The following piece summarizes his
impressions of the experience.

I don’t think that any of us were actually
looking forward to spending the summer in
Lexington. We knew that working with Dr.
Spencer would be a good experience, but we
had all been warned about the heat,
humidity, and boredom of Lexington
Summers. With some misgivings, then, the
four of us returned to Howe Hall after a short
summer vacation, bemoaning the brevity of
our break and a little unsure about what we
were getting ourselves into.

The majority of our time would be spent
mapping, a time-consuming process in which
the different rock units within a given area
must be identified and plotted on a standard
topographic map. In level, ‘“‘undeformed”’
regions, this can be a relatively simple
process. However, in the Appalachians,
where folds, rips, and tears in the continental
crust due to the repeated superimposition of
mountain systems are the norm, the mapping
process can become extremely complex and
frustrating.

Noting the varying degrees of panic
among us, and wanting to avoid a mutiny at
such an early point, Dr. Spencer spent the
entire first week refreshing us on the local
geology. By the following Monday, we felt
that we could at least identify any given rock
outcrop and perhaps make a reasonable
conjecture as to its structure and relationship
to the surrounding units. The first test of our

9

Mountain Man

new confidence came with the 2,000-foot
geologic enigma, Sallings Mountain, just
outside Glasgow, Virginia.

The question that we had to answer was,
how did Sallings Mountain get in its present
location? In a normal stratigraphic sequence,
older rock units are situated below younger
units simply because they were deposited at
an earlier time. In the case of this particular
mountain, however, a younger dolomite
formation known as the Shady directly
underlies the Antietam, an older sandstone
formation deposited by an ancient ocean that
once covered this area. Was this massive
piece of land completely inverted as
Surrounding mountains rose and fell, or did
these same mountain-building episodes
simply produce pressures and tensions great
enough to shove the entire Antietam unit on
top of the younger Shady? This question
could only be answered by moving out of
doors and looking at individual features
within the rocks comprising the mountain.

When standing at a distance from a
mountain on a cool morning, one is almost
invariably moved to scale it. At such a
distance, individual trees blend into one
smooth, green carpet. Hidden are the
underlying ravines, briars, ticks, and snakes.
As we approached the base of Sallings
Mountain and its size and smaller details
began to stand out, our initial enthusiasm
suffered a critical deterioration.
Nevertheless, the prospect of solving the
imponderables concerning the structure
continued to intrigue us. So, without too
much hesitation, Dr. Spencer, Breck Dalton,
Jimmy Bent and I started up the mountain’s
northeast face.

Ever since my freshman year, I had
continually heard Dr. Spencer referred to as
‘‘Fast Eddy.’’ After 45 minutes on the
mountain, I knew how he had come by the
nickname. Steep inclines, unending
blackberry patches, jungles of mountain
laurel, and vast platoons of ticks didn’t seem
to shorten or slow our employer’s four-foot

stride. At such a swift pace, we soon reached

the top of the mountain. Yet we still had not
found any evidence supporting either of the
theories concerning its origin.

Then, half way across the mountain’s
crest, one of us noticed a relatively small
outcrop situated, as might be expected,

10

beneath a vast briar jungle. After our painful
approach, we noticed a faint cross bedding
pattern across the rock’s weathered surface.
Such patterns are the result of the sequential
layering of sand during their oceanic
deposition. They can tell the observer,
among other things, which way was up
during their formation. The cross bedding
indeed indicated that the sandstone
composing the mountain was right side up,
thereby supporting the theory that this five-
square-mile portion of the Antietam had been
thrust up and over the Shady.

It would certainly be inaccurate to say
that our find elevated us from misery to
ecstasy, or that it soothed our scrapes and

Carey at work

bruises. But there is no denying the fact that
the small piece of sandstone gave us a
feeling of satisfaction and accomplishment
that in varying degrees made all of us glad to
be geologists.

As the summer passed, we worked on
different problems, often with far less
success than we had experienced on Sallings
Mountain. Throughout the two and a half
months, however, in addition to learning a
great deal of geology, we gained
considerable knowledge in seemingly
unrelated fields. All of us quickly learned to
distinguish at a distance a hostile bull from a
curious cow, a black snake from a
copperhead, and a playful mutt from a

 

vicious watchdog. Beyond these useful
skills, we also became adept at interpreting
the vast amounts of free information
concerning the local geology that many of
the landowners freely volunteered and urged
us to investigate. In such cases, ‘‘dormant
volcanoes’’ usually turned out to be
abandoned mine shafts, and ‘‘lava flows’”’
merely surplus concrete dumped over a rock
surface long ago. These ‘‘phenomena,”’
although frequently entertaining, were more
often time-consuming and frustrating. Still,
learning to deal tactfully with these and other
non-geologic situations can be crucially
important to a geologist’s success. As any
experienced field geologist knows, skeptical,
wary landowners can be a greater
impediment to the completion of a mapping
project than the complexity of the geology
itself.

The first 20 pages of my introductory
geology textbook consist of an extensive set
of photographs illustrating many distinctive
geologic configurations. Flawless exposures
of evenly folded and faulted granite beds and
mountains thrust over mountains not only
demonstrate the principles of physical stress
and strain but captivate the student by the
magnitude of the awesome forces required to
Carry out such large scale contortions of the
earth’s complexion.

Photographs such as these, along with the
textbook’s graphs and charts, serve well to
explicate the principles of geology. But they
can never tell a student what it feels like to
be a geologist. Never once, while
memorizing the characterization of a reverse
fault or the proper technique of
distinguishing Brachiopods from
Cephelopods, did I think to compare my
agony with that of the innumerable
geologists who gathered, synthesized,
organized, and reduced vast amounts of often
conflicting data to arrive at these textbook
principles. Despite hours of lab work and
field exercises, the geology student seldom
has the opportunity to move beyond what is
known into unexplored territories where
rights and wrongs have not been established.

Indeed, even as a senior geology major,
it seems likely that I would still be ignorant
of the geologist’s point of view had I not had
the opportunity to join Dr. Spencer for a
summer of first-hand research.

 

 

 

 

  

Be: :

Dr. H. E. King’s double life revolves around his research on hypertension and its effect on brain function.

 

by Jeffery Hanna

The Silent Disease

From Lexington to Pittsburgh and Back Again
Psychology Professor King Researches Hypertension

 

 

The basement of Tucker Hall might seem
a rather unlikely place to find research being
conducted into one of the deadliest of all
diseases.

But it is.

Once the repository for the law school
library’s overflow of torts and treatises, the
Tucker Hall basement is now occupied by
the University’s psychology department.

To be specific, Tucker’s basement houses
the psychology laboratories and is populated
mostly by a large colony of white rats, the
majority of which are used in psychology
professor Leonard Jarrard’s research into
brain function (Alumni Magazine, November
1980).

The rats are not, however, the only
residents of the Tucker basement. Nor is
Jarrard’s the only research being conducted
there. |

Dr. H. E. King happens to hang his
white lab coat in that same basement. At
least, that is one of the places where King’s
lab coat is hung these days.

In point of fact, King has led something
of a double life since he joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1977. On the

11

The Silent Disease

one hand, he is professor of psychology at
W&L. And in that capacity he teaches a full
load of classes on such topics as abnormal
psychology and human neuropsychology
while also co-teaching the medical ethics
portion of the University’s applied ethics
program.

Then there is King’s other life: that of
adjunct professor at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

It is in this latter capacity that the Tucker
basement has become a focal point for
research into that most deadly disease—
hypertension.

King is part of a team of biomedical
researchers conducting studies on
hypertension at the medical school of
Pittsburgh under a grant from the National
Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.

As you would no doubt imagine, alli of
this creates a somewhat intriguing problem
of logistics. And indeed, King’s double life
has made for a terribly long, terribly
wearisome commute at times. In the five
years he has been at Washington and Lee,
King has made that trek across the mountains
from Lexington to the Steel City more times
than he cares to count.

Nowadays, the travel is not nearly so
constant as it was when King first arrived at
W&L. In those early days, he would
routinely hop in his automobile at the end of
Thursday classes (he had—and has—no
Friday classes specifically to make such trips
possible), spend eight hours on the road,
conduct the experiments and collect the data
in Pittsburgh, then get back behind the wheel
for the return trip on Sunday evening.
Mondays could get to be a real chore with
such a schedule.

The trips to Pittsburgh are less frequent
these days (maybe one a month plus three
months in residence there during the
summer), but the research continues at a
brisk pace with a large portion taking place
right there among the white rats in Tucker’s
basement.

‘‘It took a certain amount of
foolhardiness for me to make the move from
Pittsburgh to Washington and Lee when I
made it,’’ King confesses. “‘After all, if you
make such a move and it doesn’t work out,
you're left clutching the well-known valise.”’

So far, the shift has worked to everyone’s

12

satisfaction—those long weekends in
Pittsburgh notwithstanding. The fact is,
King’s duties back in Pittsburgh actually
complement his teaching assignments rather
than detracting from them.

‘*Having someone of Dr. King’s
background and expertise is certainly a
tremendous advantage to our students,’’ says
Jarrard, head of the W&L psychology
department.

Adds King: ‘There is a definite
advantage for me in continuing to work in

 

A sphygmomanometer in action

the ‘real’ world and using that experience in
my classroom activities.”’

This past September, King and his co-
researchers at Pittsburgh—Drs. Alvin
Shapiro and Robert E. Miller—were awarded
a $226,000, three-year continuing grant from
the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute. This was the second such grant the
researchers have received. The first, awarded
in 1978, was for $190,000 over a three-year
period.

Those grants add up to a tidy sum (the
vast majority of which, King emphasizes, is

used to compensate the many specialists
involved with the program in Pittsburgh).
But King is quick to insist that the research
is well worth the price.

‘*There is,’’ he declares, **no more
important health consideration facing our
nation today than maintaining appropriate
levels of blood pressure. Fortunately, that
fact is becoming better realized in our time
than it was formerly.’”’

To put matters into perspective, consider
that high blood pressure is widely

acknowledged to be the biggest single
contributing factor in all deaths.
Hypertension not only increases the risk of
heart attack, but also increases the
seriousness of a heart attack when it does

occur.

‘“Hypertension is not the killer,’’ King
quickly notes. ‘‘It’s the complications that
accompany this disorder that pose the
problems.”’

In that regard, hypertension is ranked as
the most significant factor in producing
atherosclerotic phenomena (i.e., hardening

and clogging of heart, brain, leg, and other
arteries); in the development of strokes,
congestive heart failure and kidney failure;
and, in the inducement of coronary heart
disease, heart attacks and angina pectoris.

‘*There is no way to underestimate the
seriousness of the disorder,’’ King says.
‘*On the other hand, we don’t want to scare
the socks off people, quite unnecessarily,
because the fact is that there now exists a
variety of means for effective treatment and
blood pressure control.’’

King’s research into hypertension takes a
somewhat different direction from most in
the field. He and his co-researchers at Pitt
have been studying patients recently
diagnosed as hypertensive in an effort to
determine the effect the disease may have on
brain function as it becomes manifest in
behavior.

The larger body of hypertension research
has examined life-stress as a contributing
cause in developing hypertensive disorder.
But relatively little exploration has been
made into the possible consequences of the
altered physiological state for behavior.

Since the brain is one of the three bodily
organs (along with the heart and the kidney)
most likely to be affected by persistent blood
pressure elevations, King and the Pittsburgh
team have elected to center their attention on
brain functions.

Their initial studies of men and women
with very recently diagnosed mild
hypertension have demonstrated a
characteristic pattern of altered behavior in
sensory-perceptual, psycho-motor, and
cognitive function when these patients are
asked to perform under an imposed ‘*load’’
or mild stress.

According to King, that procedure is best
likened to ‘‘treadmill-pacing’’ of the sort that
is commonly used to probe into the details of
cardiac or respiratory functioning when the
individual is placed under a mild and
controlled work load.

‘*One of the ways to find out how a thing
is put together—and whether it is likely to
come apart—is to push it a little,’’ King
explains. ‘‘It is very similar to an automobile
that you want to race: if you want to
determine how well-constructed an
automobile is, you take it out and put it
under pressure; you run it hard enough to

 

discover the weak points, and what needs
strengthening, if you aim to run it hard
enough in competition to break the record.”’

Understandably, King is quite cautious in
his discussions of the research—particularly
since it has not yet led to direct applications.

‘*T would not dare to frighten people by
making them think that because they have
high blood pressure, the working of their
brain is seriously compromised. That’s not at
all what we have been saying in discussing
our results thus far,’’ he explains. *‘But I
have a vision of a sensationalizing newspaper
headline in the boldest, biggest type that
reads: ‘30 Million Americans Suffer Brain
Damage, Psychologist Says.’ That is most
certainly not the message.

‘*There is a clear distinction between a
statement that latent differences in
hypertensive performance patterns can be
brought forward by applying artificial,
laboratory-controlled test procedures and an
inference that the differences so noted must
also necessarily intrude upon everyday
behavior. That is not so.

‘*For instance, stepping up and down on
a stool, or fast-pacing on a treadmill, are
procedures which can inform the physician
or the physiologist about load-levels that can
sensibly be imposed on a system without
disrupting that system’s normal functioning.
The differences in behavior that we have
been able to demonstrate between
hypertensive individuals and their
counterparts in the control group are of just
this nature. And we have never suggested
that those behavior differences enter into or
negatively influence everyday behavior under
more normal conditions.’’

For years, adds King, the emphasis has
been on whether stress and strain in daily life
gives rise to elevated blood pressure.

‘Our hypothesis was: what about the
other way around? Suppose you have high
blood pressure. Would that affect
performance or behavior?’’ explains King.
**We have here a chicken and egg problem.
What we are doing is sorting out to what
extent those changes in behavior that we
have been able to register are related to blood
pressure. There is no doubt that stress will
raise blood pressure, but is it possible that
someone who is identified as having the
disorder developed a certain pattern because

of the disorder?’’

Where will King’s research lead? Such a
question is greeted by a knowing smile.

‘*That is rather akin to walking up to an
artist working on a painting of House
Mountain, leaning over his shoulder and
asking ‘What color’s going to go there.’

He’ ll probably hit you!”’ says King. ‘*That’s
a question he doesn’t want to hear—partly
because he may not yet know what color is
going there.

‘*Our research is like lighting a candle in
darkness. The more you know and
understand about any disease, the more
likely you are to find its cause. And once
you know the cause, the more likely you are
to find useful treatment and prevention. ”’

While King is reticent about detailed
discussions of his continuing research, he is
an expert on the general subject of
hypertension and a forceful advocate of
effective public education to protect against
the extremely common disorder that is
particularly dangerous mainly because it is so
easily ignored.

King moves easily into a recitation of the
statistics—statistics with which he has
become intimately familiar during his work
in the Pittsburgh hypertension clinic where
patients for the study are treated.

‘*They are crude statistics, but easy to
remember: between 25 and 35 million people
in this country suffer from hypertension; of
all the people who have the disorder, only
half are aware of it; of those who know it,
only half are treated; of those who are
treated, only half are treated correctly,”’
King explains. ‘‘We get down to the fact that
an eighth of the people in this country who
suffer from hypertension are getting
appropriate treatment. And that is our biggest
problem. ”’

Those figures are indeed alarming. They
are also surprising figures—surprising, at
least, once you consider that the disorder can
be diagnosed at your local pharmacy or
shopping mall simply by dropping a few
quarters in a coin-operated
sphygmomanometer, the instrument used to
measure blood pressure. Few ailments are so”
easily detected and by such simple testing
methods.

So what is it that makes hypertension so
potentially dangerous?

13

The Silent Disease

‘*Its insidiousness,’’ says King. “‘A
person with hypertension is likely not to
know he has it. It is often asymptomatic.

And unless people hurt somewhere, they are
unlikely to see a physician or have
themselves examined for something they
have no idea exists.

‘That is why public education is so
important. We have to let people know that
you don’t have to have blood squirt out your
ears and you don’t have to suffer pounding
headaches to have hypertension.’’

A note of explanation seems appropriate
at this point: Most people understand the
basic concept that we must have blood
pressure in order to circulate our five quarts
of blood through 60,000 miles of blood
vessels. But too high a force exerted against
the artery walls can damage blood vessels in
various organs and lead to the
aforementioned complications.

When is blood pressure too high? The
common wisdom has been that a blood
pressure between 100/60 and 140/90 is the
normal range. The high figure in those
equations represents the systolic pressure, the
pressure in an artery when the heart contracts
or beats; the low figure is the diastolic
pressure, the pressure in an artery during the
interval between heart beats.

Once it was felt that a pressure between
140/90 and 160/95 was borderline. More and
more physicians now consider any elevation
over 140/90 as cause for concern.

And a study released in October has
proposed that those figures need to be
lowered and that anyone with a diastolic
pressure between 80 and 90 should be placed
in a new ‘‘intermediate’’ category of risk.
Changing those guidelines would place a
whole new group of individuals (about 25
million in all) previously considered as
having ‘‘normal’’ blood pressure in a
category of greater risk.

‘Usually, hypertension is discovered
more or less accidentally,’’ King explains.
‘*You have an examination for life insurance,
and it’s discovered. You give blood, and it’s
discovered. You’re being examined for some
other condition, and it’s discovered.

‘*That is why I am so much in favor of
having organizations set up blood pressure
monitoring stations in supermarkets and
shopping malls and at places like the

14

 

King’s advice: check your oil

Rockbridge Festival. Of course, a single
reading is not sufficient but can serve to put
us on alert.

‘*Having blood pressure checked makes
good sense. After all, if you want to keep
your expensive (and they are all expensive
nowadays) automobile running smoothly,
you check the oil regularly. The same advice
applies to your body. People have to be
made aware of the disorder and have to
recognize that they might have it before they
can be treated.”’

And they can be treated. Once
discovered, hypertension often can be
controlled quite easily.

‘*The treatment,’’ explains King, ‘‘is in
steps. The first step involves common sense
things such as reducing salt intake in the
diet, reducing weight, avoiding the sedentary
life. Those measures control many cases.
The next step involves drugs known as
diuretics that remove fluids from the body.
Past that, there are more powerfully active
drugs, some known as beta blockers which
act through the nervous system, that can be
introduced.

‘A problem with hypertension treatment

is that sometimes the side effects from the
drugs are more unpleasant than the disorder
itself. People are not inclined to take
medication when they feel fine, and that
poses another problem.’

Though some forms of hypertension can
be traced to specific causes (i.e., a tumor on
the kidney can cause one type), most is of
unknown origin.

‘‘That type is called ‘essential’
hypertension, which means the primary cause
is unknown,”’ King explains. ‘‘For many
years, life-stress has been considered a
primary cause. Indeed, it appears that stress
can be a factor, but again you must qualify
that. It is known, for instance, that we
register a higher blood pressure—that our
heart goes pitty-pat—when a deer jumps
across the road in front of our car on a dark
night in Rockbridge County.

‘‘That is a well-known, brain-controlled,
emergency reaction. Because every man
knows that momentary excitement raises the
heart rate, it seems reasonable, or at least
understandable, that if there is some kind of
excitement that won’t quit, then that might
raise your pressure. This is the area we are
examining, and we are discovering that this
idea dies hard.

‘There are also age-related and genetic
components to consider. High blood pressure
is, to a degree, inherited. And there was
once a belief that blood pressure naturally
rises with age, indeed that it must rise. We
no longer hold that such is necessarily the
case.”’

Thanks to research of the sort King and
his colleagues are conducting, we have been
able to learn more and more about what some
have called ‘‘the silent disease.’’ But for
every answer, more questions are raised.

‘*T would not buy, by any means, the
argument that we’ll never know all the
answers. We just don’t know them all yet,”’
King says. ‘‘I sometimes laugh when I hear
or read about so-called ‘breakthroughs.’ It’s
like people waiting for a call from the
governor to tell them they won’t have to sit
in the chair. It just doesn’t very often work
that way. I happen to be an optimist on the
subject, but the truth about all this falls
somewhere in between.’’

_Meantime, King offers a word of advice:
Have your oil checked on a regular basis.

       
    

 
  

yas! wil

 

When I first asked my good friend
Harold Quinn (’54) if he would mind serving
as the subject of an alumnus profile, he
questioned, with characteristic modesty,
whether he deserved such attention. I
explained that, while the Magazine’ s profile
series would feature subjects who have
achieved a measure of distinction, it would
concentrate above all on unusual
personalities and careers, on such oddities as
surgeons who wrote poetry. He agreed to the
interview with the understanding that he
might be able to clarify the connection
between surgery and poems, that he might
thereby appear to others to be after all a man
of rational disposition and rather ordinary
interests. Certifiable oddballs are always
convinced of their own normality.

I first met Harold Quinn in the spring of
1980. He had flown up to W&L from
Louisiana to attend a medical ethics
conference. During a break in the schedule,

See dlijy, trip

 

Harel

he sought me out to inquire if he could attend
a session of my seminar in contemporary
poetry. The next meeting of the class would
be on John Ashbery, one of the most arcane
of poets writing today. I cautioned Dr. Quinn
that he might find the poetry distressing, but
his response was to rush off to the bookstore
to pick up the text.

During class the next day, Quinn sat
quietly, a large foreign presence trying to
remain, if not invisible, anonymous. Finally,
during a moment of general bewilderment
over a passage from ‘‘Self-Portrait in a
Convex Mirror,’’ Quinn exploded with
enthusiasm and insight, taking the class
quickly through a distinction between
scholastic and Cartesian thought and then
carefully, reverently back through the
relevancies of the passage. Later, some of
my students privately wondered how an
alumnus—a physician at that—could respond
so cogently to the complexities of

 

by Robert Fure

Harold
Quinn

Shreveport’s
Surgeon Poet:
‘An Uncovering’

Dr. Harold Quinn: From otolaryngology to poetry

contemporary verse. It was undoubtedly one
of the most important questions of the term.

Harold Quinn was returning on that day
to a campus he had never really left, though
it had been a few years since his last visit. *‘I
think about W&L all the time,’ he admits.
‘*A lot began there for me. Even now, when
a new idea comes into my head, I frequently
associate it with a professor from whom I
had heard something similar.’’

Quinn’s attachment to W&L is not
merely nostalgic, though his fondness
occasionally verges on the platonic: “It’s
difficult to forget the beauty of Lexington.
Yet when I come back, it’s like an
epiphany—the place is even more beautiful
than I remembered.’’ More commonly his
recollections evoke a simple devotion to
alma mater. He speaks vividly of his four
years here as a period of inspiration,
generation, and growth. ‘‘I was a pre-med
major at least partly because it allowed me to

15

 

4

Surgeon Poet

take a lot of electives. Dean Leyburn used to
say it was the finest liberal arts major in the
college.’’

His most vivid recollections, he claims,
are of his teachers, “‘their palpable joy in
exercising their minds.’’ It was contagious:
‘*They made learning fun, and they were
themselves exemplars. I remember Dr.
Turner studying nightly in the library. Two
or three times each evening he would get out
of his chair, make his way over to the
dictionary, and look up a word. Somehow I
have never forgotten that.’’

‘*And of course if you’ve had a term with
Dean Leyburn, you’re changed forever. His
lecture on the death of Socrates was a
campus classic. People would crawl in
through the windows to catch it. I remember
passing his house on the campus at night on
my way from the library. He would be
playing Chopin, and there would be students
listening. His door was always open.”’

Quinn was a member of the 1954 College
Quiz Bowl team, a highly successful four-
man squad of ‘‘quick-recall’’ experts. Thus,
his own taste for learning earned him some
celebrity—nationwide, thanks to the early
Alan Ludden radio program. Quinn was also
a Phi Beta Kappa scholar and, during his
senior year, president of the SAE fraternity.
‘*T was not a B.M.O.C.,”’ he says. ‘““But I
was determined to get the most of my time
there.’’

After Washington and Lee, Quinn
returned to Louisiana and medical school at
Tulane. He interned in Philadelphia, where,
with some astonishment, he ‘‘learned that
everything you learn in medical school has
practical value.’’ After special training in St.
Louis in ear, nose, and throat, Harold J.
Quinn Jr., returned to Shreveport, like his
father, to practice medicine.

That was 20 years ago. Today Quinn has
a wife and three children. He is a successful
otolaryngologist who divides his time
between his clinic and the largest private
hospital in Louisiana, the T. E. Schumpert
Memorial Sanitarium. His concerns range
from earaches to throat cancers. On
Wednesdays, he teaches a course on ear,
nose, and throat at the L.S.U. Medical
School. A man of tremendous energy, he
moves briskly between visits with 20-40

16

 

 

Quintessential
Quinn

ANATOMY LESSON
‘‘The Brain’’

Dipped from a crock,

It smells of formaldehyde,
And looks like yogurt.

I learn its parts,
Suggesting delight:
Sylvian Aqueduct,

Pons and Thalamus,
Mammillary Body,

Optic Recess:

Propped in my palm,

The pallid lump

Sways to an obscene probe
Of convolutions.

Without light or quiver,
Flash or glance,

It stolidly performs

A sluggish dance

In mute counterpoint

To the raucous swirl of life
Beyond nomenclature.

THE LIMIT

FAMILY OUTING

My family is together at the zoo;

We’re neither in, nor out, nor wrong, nor right;
How cagily we can confine our woes

Since zoos comprise what those within compose.

Peering through the empty loom of fence

We weave the shifting creatures into sense.

But woven fabric roughens on the weavers;
Who are the kept? The keepers? The deceivers?

ADOLESCENT

Sometimes I feel like

A chocolate covered sardine,

Or a banana dipped in chili;
Even if you wiped me clean

The inside wouldn’t be so hot.
And anyway I’m not so sure

I’d want my insides showing out,
Like some frog in Biology class.
Who’d like them? Not me, for sure.
And if anybody else did,

I wouldn’t trust them anymore.

I lug them in bunched by the neck cord;

A droop of blind heads, their bills agape and stiff.

Mostly Mallards, a few Pintail and Teal, wet and tousled.
As I try to smooth the ruffled feather-bellies

My hand is surprised by warmth, and a limp

Response to an empty fondle. Suddenly I remember their

Quick release from flight, the arc broken to a sprawl-thud:

Blunt aftersound to the clean shot
That brought them down, and let their beauty go.

 

 

%

Quinn with patient: ‘‘. . . labor . . . for the sake of sound.’’

patients a day, slowing only as he enters a
patient’s room, or studies a chart, or traces a
patient’s long, tormented description of pain.
His manner reveals a genuine human
warmth, a caring unshaken by the frustrating
mysteries of pain and disease.

On the terminally ill, Quinn allows that
‘sometimes a physician comes to the end of
his rope. All he can offer is to visit the
dying, to talk with them and touch them. He
has to avoid avoiding them.”’

On the matter of pain, he quotes Emily
Dickinson: ‘‘ ‘Pain has an element of
blank; / It cannot recollect / When it began,
or if there were / A day when it was not.’
Now that’s a good expression of both the
mystery and psychology of pain,’’ Quinn
adds. ‘‘Pain is a neurological phenomenon
that no one really understands. If you tell me
that you hurt, I have to believe you. I can’t
prove that you hurt, nor can I measure your
pain. All we know is that you hurt.’’ The
rest of Dickinson’s poem runs, ‘‘It has no
future but itself, / Its infinite realms
contain / Its past, enlightened to
perceive / new periods of pain.’’ Quinn gets
it right.

Which brings us to the matter of what
Dr. Quinn does with his evenings.

On the first night of my visit with Harold
Quinn in Shreveport, he was featured at a
small, politely attended poetry reading at the
local arts festival, the Red River Revel. We
were all seated among the steamy, verdant
growth of an arboretum, located next to a

 

makeshift bandstand. Shortly before Quinn’s
turn at the podium, a rock band broke
irreverently into its own revel. The
cacophony might have defeated softer voices.
Quinn gamely carried on—“‘I guess because
I’m Irish. Anyway, my favorite organ is the
larynx.”’

Quinn’s interest in poetry is long, deep,
and, with his careful elucidation, rather
Closely related to his medical practice. It
began, he says, with Mother Goose, “‘all that
wonderful rhyme on rhyme.’’ Through his
boyhood, his memory was full of countless
recitations assigned by his Jesuit teachers.
English electives at Washington and Lee
with such professors as Fitz Flournoy carried
his interest further. ‘‘Then, in medical
school, I wrote a couple of poems and later a
few more on the standard themes of birth,
copulation, and death.’’ Four years ago he
began writing again in earnest.

‘*T suppose it was some sort of mid-life
crisis. Who was it who said a poem begins
with a lump in the throat? I had to express
certain feelings in order to control them. So I
tried to find the best words in their best
order.’’

Quinn acknowledges that the effort
continues but that it rarely comes out right—
*‘like the click of a closing box.’’ There are
compensations, however, that keep him up at
night. “‘I find that poetry unites two of my
enthusiasms, language and sound.”’

Some of his poems now are beginning to
appear in small literary magazines. One of
the magazines, a New York publication

called The Bad Henry Review, is edited,
coincidentally, by John Ashbery. Despite
such occasional public appearances, Quinn
claims that he writes mainly for his own
enjoyment. Poetry is the surgeon’s relief
from the onerous technicality of his
occupation, ‘‘an entirely different
enterprise.”

It is related by antithesis to medical
language. In poetry, strict denotative
meaning gives way to ambiguity and
connotation.’’ At home after work he can
seek ‘‘a more inclusive precision, a world of
connotations and resonances.”’

Poetry is also better reading, Quinn
confesses, for one who likes taking things
apart to see how they work—‘‘which is, of
course, somewhat related to what I do for a
living.’’ He ponders the connection for a
moment. “‘It’s also more convenient. After a
long day, I can take fifteen minutes, sit down
with a Dickinson poem, read it three or four
times, and each time something explodes
within that poem, various nuances come
alive.”’

Quinn reverses direction for a moment,
working now from avocation back to
vocation: ‘‘You know, the middle ear is a
structure of exceeding beauty. It reveals
itself to you only after you learn anatomy and
how to use the microscope.’’ His meditation
begins to sparkle with the connotative, with
his special delight in metaphor. ‘“When the
little bones—the ossicles—are malarranged,
it takes a tremendous amount of creativity to
put them back together, to reconstruct the
chain. All of your labor is for the sake of
sound.”’

He laughs. ‘Actually, I’m an impatient
man. That’s one reason why I chose my
specialty. Internists are very much at home
with uncertainty.* But in ear, nose, and throat
we tend to get answers to diagnostic
problems rather quickly. Also, we don’t have
to deal with naked patients. Freud would
have fun with that observation.’’ He shrugs
with a smile, hastening now to bring the
conversation to a close. “*So what I don’t
deal with in the daytime, I encounter at
night. Poetry is an uncovering.”’

*Quinn’s article, ““Temperament and Medicine,’’
will appear in Social Responsibility: Journalism,
Law, and Medicine, Vol. VII, 1981, edited by
Louis W. Hodges.

17

 

 

Photo by Jack Gaking, Roanoke Times & World-News

 

     

SES

Clockwise from top left: W&L professors (Gary Dobbs, biology; Sidney Coulling, English; Pamela
Hemenway Simpson, art; Albert Gordon, drama; Thomas Imeson, chemistry and computer science)
answer questions during Special Alumni Conference session; Alumni Association president James F.
Gallivan, ’51, conducts meeting of Alumni Board; Homecoming queen Kate Orr of Hollins College
interviewed by Cable Nine reporter after her crowning; Generals tailback Chris Cavalline dives into
end zone for W&L’s first touchdown in 14-12 Homecoming win over Maryville; President Huntley
participates in annual Class Agents workshop.

 

19

by Jeffery Hanna

Oompa, Oompa!

How Johnny Preston Saved the Generals’ Perfect Season and Other Such Tales

The secret is out.

Twenty years after the fact, the key to the
success of Washington and Lee’s unbeaten
1961 football team has finally been revealed.

His name was Johnny Preston. And
though you won’t find him listed on the
roster for that year (or any other year,
either), his impact on the Generals’ success
was profound, indeed.

Preston’s contributions and other real,
untold stories from that golden era became
public record in October when members of
W&L’s 1960, 1961, and 1962 football teams
returned to Lexington for a reunion that
coincided with Homecoming weekend.

In case the name is unfamiliar (a fairly
safe bet), Johnny Preston recorded a song
entitled ‘‘Running Bear,’’ a mournful ballad
of an Indian brave’s unrequited love for a
princess named Little White Dove. The
record was high on the charts about the same
time the Generals were high in the small
college football ratings.

   

Drawing by Tamara Teal

Running bear earned . . .

20

You may well be wondering how Preston,
Running Bear, and Little White Dove were
involved in the Generals’ 9-0 season of ’61.
A fair enough question.

It seems the Generals adopted ‘‘Running
Bear’’ as their semi-official team song (not,
of course, usurping ““The W&L Swing’s”’
lofty status by any means). Jerry Hyatt, ’62,
a center on the ’61 team and now a lawyer in
Damascus, Md., customarily served as
soloist—not so much because of his vocal
abilities as his memory. He knew all the
words to ‘‘Running Bear.’’ And Hyatt’s
teammates provided the appropriate backup
with their stirring ‘“OOOMPA, ooompa,
OOOMPA, oompas.’’

Much to the delight—and amazement—
of all those in attendance at the reunion
banquet, Hyatt and his returning teammates
recreated their rendition of the Preston
classic.

Then Bobby Payne, ’63, a tackle on the
1961 team and now a Richmond attorney,
filled in the details.

Explained Payne: ‘‘ ‘Running Bear’ was
probably the very worst song ever recorded.
And we sang it all the time.

‘*One Saturday afternoon before a
particularly important game, we were all in
the dressing room getting ready, and the
atmosphere was really tense because we had
the unbeaten season going. Coach (Lee)
McLaughlin came in and sensed how
nervous everyone was. So he told Jerry
(Hyatt) to sing ‘Running Bear.’

‘*There we were, getting ready for one of
the biggest games of our season, and we’re
all singing ‘Running Bear.’ I promise you
it’s impossible to sing ‘Running Bear’ and
stay uptight for very long. It loosened
everybody up.”’

That was only part of the story. At
Wilson Field the opposing teams dress in
adjoining locker rooms separated by a
cinder-block wall that is anything but
soundproof. Consequently, the visiting team
that day was treated to an unscheduled and
undoubtedly perplexing pre-game concert.

‘‘Those guys in the other dressing room
must have thought they were about to play a
bunch of loonies,’’ said Payne. “*After
hearing us sing, they were nice to us and let
us win.”’

The ‘‘Running Bear’’ saga was one of the

many stories that were told and retold over
the three days the former players revisited
the campus.

‘*The way this weekend has gone, our
team gets better every minute. We’re a lot
better now than we were when we got here
Friday,’’ said Steve Suttle, 62, quarterback
of the 1961 team and now an attorney in
Abilene, Tex.

The memories and tall tales of
touchdowns had to suffice, for game films
the reunion teams enjoyed Friday night were
devoid of scoring plays or even long gainers.
A ‘‘highlight’’ reel that contained all the best
plays had been created for the 1962 alumni
banquet circuit, only to be lost when Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn’s suitcase was
stolen in New York a few months later.

That made for a humbling experience.
But at least one former player was
philosophical: ‘‘We always tend to remember
the big plays. Maybe it’s good to be
reminded that we didn’t always make that

 

. . .Washington Touchdown Club trophy

 

Together again: ’60, ’61, ’62 teams shared weekend full of memories

block or get to the ball carrier the way we
should have.’’

Naturally enough, much of the
reminiscing centered around McLaughlin, the
popular coach who died tragically in 1968.
His wife, Rosa, was in attendance at the
banquet as were other representatives of the
coaching staff from that era.

‘Tiff’ Tiffany, ’61, a halfback and now
a lawyer in Warrenton, Va., captured the
essence of Coach Mac when he recounted a
story from the earliest, leanest years of
McLaughlin’s W&L tenure.

**The first year Coach Mac was here
(1957), we played eight games and lost all
eight,’’ Tiffany recalled. ‘‘But after the
season was over, Coach Mac decided to give
a banquet for the football team. Everyone
wondered what in the world he would tell us
after this horrible season. But he got up after
dinner and said that while an 0-8 season
wasn’t very good, things could have been
worse—we could have scheduled more
games.”’

Bill Wheeler, ’62, a tackle who was
known by his teammates as ‘“The Penguin’’
because of his unusual gait, remembered a
conversation between his mother and
McLaughlin following the final game of that
unbeaten ’61 season.

‘*T was talking with my mother outside
the dressing room when Coach Mac came
up, did a little victory dance, gave my
mother a hug, and told her, ‘You know,
Mrs. Wheeler, Bill’s weak . . . . but he’s
slow.”’

In addition to the reunion banquet and the
Friday night film session, the returning
players were introduced at halftime of
W&L’s Homecoming game—a game that the
Generals won, upsetting previously-unbeaten

 

Maryville College 14-12.

‘*T had been telling our players all week
that we couldn’t possibly lose with all you
winners around,’’ current W&L football
coach Gary Fallon told the returnees after the
game. ‘‘I was right. The winning rubs off.
And by the way, if you can make it, I’d like
to invite all of you to attend our next five
games.’’

The team’s reunion and the football
triumph were the highlights of a
Homecoming weekend that included the
crowning of Kate Orr of Hollins College as
the 1981 Homecoming Queen, a meeting of
the Alumni Board, and a workshop for Class
Agents.

Without question, though, the three
returning football teams which compiled a
record of 25-1-1 (8-0-1 in 1960, 9-0 in 1961,
and 8-1 in 1962) had center stage. The

Current Generals applauded by former Generals at halftime.

former players made their return a
meaningful one, too, by announcing at the
banquet that they had combined to pledge
enough money to W&L to double the
existing Lee Massey McLaughlin Memorial
Scholarship, which is endowed in memory of
their former coach.

While it was like old times in many
respects, times had clearly changed. That
much was evident by one plan that went
awry. In an attempt to recreate the past, if
only momentarily, an effort was made to re-
photograph one of the most famous sports
pictures in W&L’s history.

The 1960 photograph shows linebacker
Terry Fohs, ’62, an All-American despite his
size (5-7, 152 pounds), on the ground
between the enormous legs of a teammate.
Fohs is tying together the shoestrings that
belonged to the enormous shoes at the end of
those enormous legs belonging to Dave
Munroe, ’63. (When a sportswriter had asked
Fohs the secret of his effective tackling, Fohs
had replied: *‘I’ve got quick hands, I tie their
shoelaces together.’’) The photo was
distributed nationally by The Associated
Press and appeared in newspapers literally
from coast to coast.

Fohs and Munroe were asked to strike the
same pose for photographers 21 years later
only to encounter a somewhat baffling
roadblock—Munroe was wearing loafers.
The message was obvious: reliving the past
is one thing, recreating it quite another.

21

el Gazette

 

 

First judge-in-residence
at Lewis Law Center

U.S. Circuit Judge Luther M. Swygert is
the first judge-in-residence at Washington
and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center.

Swygert, who recently took senior status
as judge for the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Chicago, will spend three months
conducting research on the procedures by
which counsel is appointed in certain
litigation at the federal level.

‘‘T plan to examine the different ways in
which lawyers are now being appointed in
various circuits and also plan to look at the
possibility of establishing uniform rules for
the appointment of counsel,’’ Swygert
explained.

A graduate of the University of Notre
Dame, Swygert was appointed U.S. Circuit
Judge for the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in
1961. From 1970 through 1975, he was chief
judge of the circuit which serves Indiana,
Wisconsin and Illinois. By taking senior
status this past July, Swygert is not required
to take a full load of cases, but he does
intend to remain quite active as a judge.

According to Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.,
director of the Lewis Law Center and
professor of law at W&L, the judge-in-
residence program is designed to attract
**distinguished judges who will be involved
in research on currently important topics.’”’

Since it was established in 1972, the Law
Center has had several scholars-in-
residence—law professors who have
undertaken research at the center.

 

 

In the arts

—A series of six lectures on English art
and architecture was held in October.
Sponsored by the departments of English,
fine arts and history, the University Library,
the Visiting Lecturers Committee, and the
English Speaking Union, the lectures varied
in subject matter from 18th century gardens
to English portrait painting. The lecturers
were Thomas P. Burr, Esq., Wessex
Regional Officer of the English National
Trust, who gave an illustrated lecture on
Stourhead, one of the most famous 18th

22

 

Luther M. Swygert

century gardens in England; David Leach,
world-famous potter who lectured on the
work of his father, Bernard Leach; Sheldon
Rothblatt, professor of history at the
University of California at Berkeley, who
examined the English garden in the 18th
century; David N. Durant, well-known
author and lecturer, who spoke on portrait
painting; and, David Vaisey, Keeper of
Western Manuscripts at the Bodleian Library
at Oxford, who lectured on the library and on
the history and architecture of Oxford.

—Early fall exhibitions in W&L’s
duPont Gallery have included the paintings
of Robbie Tillotson and sculpture by Steve
Bickley. Tillotson is a fellow at the Virginia
Center for the Creative Arts in Sweet Briar,
Va. Bickley is assistant professor of art at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University.

—The Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild opened its season in
September with an appearance by the
Richmond Sinfonia under the direction of
French conductor Jacques Houtmann. The
second concert in the series, held in October,
featured pianist Leon Bates.

—A series of five Japanese feature films
was presented in October and November in
conjunction with the East Asian Studies
Program and a class on Japanese literature in

 

translation. The five films were made
available to Washington and Lee and four
other American universities by The Japan
Foundation, a non-profit organization
founded in 1972 by the Japanese government
to promote intellectual and cultural exchange
and mutual understanding between Japan and
other countries.

 

 

Alumnus Houser is 100
and still going strong

Dr. A. A. Houser, ’09, is planning to
write a book. Its title? How to Live to Be
100, what else?

The book ought to be a bestseller, too,
because like any good ‘‘How To’’ book, this
one will be based on experience.

‘It'll be from somebody who’s done it,
not somebody who’s thinking about it,’’ Dr.
Houser told reporters back in November at
his birthday party. His 100th birthday party,
no less.

Houser’s party took place at Alpine
Farms, his 5,000-acre cattle farm that
straddles Rockbridge and Botetourt counties
near Natural Bridge Station.

Born on a farm not far from Alpine
Farms, Houser entered Washington and Lee
in 1907 when he was 26.

‘‘It was hard and I gained only 16 credit
hours that first year, but I caught up that
second year,’’ Houser said in an interview
recently.

He spent only two years at W&L, then
applied for a chemistry lab assistant job at
the Medical School of Virginia in Richmond.
In 1909, he did submit a chemistry thesis
that earned a certificate in chemistry from
WL.

Once in Richmond, Houser moved
quickly from a laboratory assistant to head of
the physiological chemistry laboratory. In
1911, he earned his medical degree, then
proceeded to establish a family practice that
flourished until he was well into his 80s.

Meantime, Houser became owner of a
Richmond-based pharmaceutical company
and turned the struggling firm into a
booming concern. Today, the Houser family
remains the major stockholder in that
company, William P. Poythress & Company.

At his birthday party in September,

 

Houser received greetings from many of his
long-time friends and associates. Washington
and Lee Treasurer E. Stewart Epley
represented the University, presenting

Houser with a citation on the occasion.

One reporter, quizzing Houser on his life
and times, wondered whether he had any
regrets, whether he would do things
differently if given the chance.

‘‘T’ve enjoyed every day I’ve lived,”’
Houser replied. ‘‘I think ve made a positive
contribution in everything I tried. . . .”’

Now, for that book.

 

 

Washington and Lee alumni
who teach in law schools

The faculty of the Washington and Lee
School of Law has 20 full-time teachers. Of
these full-time professors, five are alumni of
Washington and Lee. They are Lewis H.
LaRue, °59; Andrew W. McThenia, ’58;
Wilfred L. Ritz, °38; J. William H. Stewart,
*52; and, Joseph E. Ulrich, ’59.

Washington and Lee alumni who teach in
other law schools are:

Eugene M. Anderson, ’52—Western New
“England College School of Law, Springfield,
Mass.

Ronald J. Bacigal, ’67—University of
Richmond, T. C. Williams School of Law,
Richmond, Va.

Keith W. Blinn, ’41—University of
Houston School of Law, Houston, Texas

William T. Braithwaite, ’64—Loyola
University School of Law, Oak Park, Ill.

John J. Broderick, ’32—Notre Dame
School of Law, South Bend, Ind.

Theodore A. Bruinsma, ’41—Loyola
University School of Law, Los Angeles,
Calif.

Thomas W. Christopher, ’39—University
of Alabama School of Law, Tuscaloosa

Ernest H. Clark, ’52—Capital University
School of Law, Columbus, Ohio

E. Magruder Faris, ’51—Stetson School
of Law, St. Petersburg, Fla.

Grayfred B. Gray, ’61—University of
Tennessee School of Law, Knoxville

William G. Hall Jr., *52—University of
Maryland Law School, Baltimore

Lawrence K. Hellman, ’66—Oklahoma
City School of Law, Oklahoma City

Jan Laankan, ’68—University of Oslo
School of Law, Oslo, Norway

Randy H. Lee, ’69—University of North
Dakota School of Law, Great Falls

Charles C. Lewis, ’71—Campbell

 

WEL Treasurer E. Stewart Epley, '49, right, congratulates alumnus Dr. A. A. Houser, ’09, of Natural

 

Bridge Station, Va., on his 100th birthday in September. Mrs. Houser is at left.

University School of Law, Buies Creek,
N.C.

Robert E. Shepherd, ’59—University of
Richmond, T. C. Williams School of Law,
Richmond, Va.

Robert F. Stephens, ’47—Tuft’s
University, Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy, Medford, Mass.

William W. Stuart, °69—DePaul
University School of Law, Evanston, III.

Karl P. Warden, ’52—Vanderbilt
University School of Law, Nashville, Tenn.

Philip K. Yonge, ’39—Brooklyn School
of Law, Brooklyn, N.Y.

Corrections or additions should be called
to the attention of Rupert N. Latture,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Va. 24450.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Halford R. Ryan, associate professor
of public speaking, recently published
articles in two scholarly journals. One of
Ryan’s articles, published in the Quarterly
Journal of Speech, examined the
composition of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s
fourth inaugural speech. Ryan worked with
10 drafts of the FDR address to determine
that speech writer Robert Sherwood
composed the final address from a core of
Roosevelt’s dictation. His research also
showed that FDR rejected drafts from his
other speech writers—Archibald MacLeish
and Judge Samuel Rosenman—because they

stressed militarism too much at a time when
FDR wanted to preview the peace which
would follow World War II. Ryan’s other
article, published in Speaker and Gavel,
examines speeches by Edmund Burke,
Patrick Henry, Joseph McCarthy, and
Richard Nixon to illustrate how student
speakers could be more persuasive by using
the ‘‘classical pattern.’’

—Steven E. Olson, assistant professor of
English, is the author of an article in Essays
in Arts and Sciences. Olson’s article is
entitled ‘“The House of Man: Ethical
Symbolism in Conrad Aiken’s “The Clerk’s
Journal.’ ’’ Olson joined the faculty of
Washington and Lee this fall after doing
graduate work at Stanford University.

—Q. W. Riegel, former professor of
journalism, served on a jury for the
International Film Festival at Mannheim,
West Germany, in October. Reigel was the
guest of the festival, which specialized in
first films of new directors. He served on the
FIPRESCI (Federation Internationale de la
Press Cinematographique) jury. Riegel taught
journalism for 43 years and was head of the
department for 34 of those year. He retired in
1974.

—Two art professors presented papers at
the Southeastern College Art Conference at
the University of Mississippi in October. I-
Hsiung Ju delivered a paper on teaching non-
Western Art in American colleges and
universities while Pamela Hemenway
Simpson examined the photography of
Michael Miley, Rockbridge County native
and pioneer in color photography who was

23

de GAZETTE

known as ‘‘General Lee’s photographer.’’

—Captain Jerome F. Kelly, assistant
professor of military science, was selected by
the U.S. Army for promotion to major.
Kelly is an armor officer with more than 10
years of experience. He has served in a
variety of command and staff assignments
including duty in West Germany. Kelly is a
1971 graduate of Virginia Military Institute
and will serve in his current assignment at
W&L through June of 1983.

—David B. Dickens, associate professor
of German, delivered a paper on the humor
of contemporary German writer Kurt
Kusenberg during a conference at West
Virginia University in September. Entitled
‘*Kurt Kusenberg: How Amazing It Is to be
Happy,’’ Dickens’ paper was presented at the
Sixth Annual Colloquium on Modern
Literature: Humor in Modern Literature and
Film.’’ Dickens regularly incorporates
Kusenberg short stories into the various
courses he teaches at W&L, partly for their
intrinsic value as literature but also because
they make instruction in grammar a bit less
painful.

—Louis W. Hodges, professor of
religion, addressed the 1981 Convention and
Exposition of the International Association of
Financial Planners, Inc., in San Francisco in
September. Hodges’ presentation, entitled
‘‘Ethics for Professions,’’ examined conflict
of interest in the professions. Hodges is
director of the University’s program in
applied ethics.

 

 

Recent speakers

The producer-host of a television series,
an expert on juvenile delinquency, and a
Notre Dame law professor who is examining
a humanitarian law for warfare—those were
some of the speakers on the campus early
this fall.

Tony Brown, host and executive
producer of the weekly television series,
‘*Tony Brown’s Journal,’’ spoke under the
sponsorship of the Student Association for
Black Unity in October. Brown also held
informal seminars with students in the
University’s journalism department.

Norman Scott, director of the juvenile
justice program for the national legal
fraternity, Phi Alpha Delta, talked about
juvenile delinquency in America in
September. Scott’s appearance was jointly
sponsored by the law school’s chapter of Phi
Alpha Delta and the Tucker Law Forum.

Robert Rodes, professor of law at the

24

 

Gregory Coy, ’83, left, interviews syndicated TV personality Tony Brown on W&L’s Cable Nine

University of Notre Dame, addressed the
subject of a humanitarian law for warfare in a
lecture at the law school in October. Rodes,
whose speech was entitled ‘‘Humanitarian
Law in Clandestine Warfare,’’ was
participating in a two-day workshop on that
subject at the Frances Lewis Law Center.

 

 

Wachtler’s decision
disappoints supporters

Judge Sol Wachtler, ’51, ’52L, made
more of an impact by announcing he would
not run for Governor of New York than
many politicians make when they announce
they are running.

Wachtler is judge of the New York State
Court of Appeals. In June, Washington and
Lee conferred the honorary doctor of law
degree on him.

In September, Wachtler decided that he
would remain on the bench rather than toss
his hat in the ring.

His announcement was a genuine
disappointment to many who felt he could be
the next governor of New York. A case in
point is the following editorial that appeared
in the Nassau edition of Newsday on Sept.
17, 1981:

“The world has never suffered from an
excess of intelligent, competent public
officials. So when one comes along, there
are stirrings of optimism and appreciation

among people who are concerned about such
matters.

‘‘Judge Sol Wachtler is a man who
possesses both intelligence and competence.
His decision not to run for governor in 1982
comes as a bit of a disappointment; he would
have elevated the contest.

‘*Wachtler apparently decided to take
himself out of gubernatorial contention for
several reasons: because he likes his present
job on the Court of Appeals; because he
would have had to give it up to seek elective
office; because he was uncertain that a liberal
Republican could win his party’s nomination;
because he lacked the taste for the primary
scrap he would inevitably have faced.

‘*Those reasons are hard to challenge.

**Still, while Wachtler will be missed in
the coming gubernatorial campaign, it’s
reassuring to know that his perceptiveness
and articulateness will continue to serve the
state for its highest judicial bench.’’

 

 

Weinberg is honored
by Order of the Coif

Manuel Weinberg, a 1931 Washington
and Lee law graduate, was awarded honorary
membership in the Order of the Coif, a
national law school honor society, during the
October meeting of the W&L Law Council.

The Law Council is the executive board
of the Law School Association, an
organization of W&L law school alumni.

Thirteen members of the Law Council
attended the meeting and activities, which
included a luncheon with student
representatives and a panel discussion.

Weinberg, who is associated with the
Frederick, Md., law firm of Weinberg &
Michel, received his honorary membership in
the Order of the Coif for his service to
Washington and Lee. The award was made
by W&L President Robert E. R. Huntley.

Weinberg is a Lexington native and has
three grandchildren currently attending
Washington and Lee—third-year law student
Rand Weinberg, first-year law student
Shelley Weinberg, and Tod Weinberg, a
sophomore in W&L’s undergraduate
division.

is new cataloging librarian in the law school
library.

Beckwith was formerly assistant librarian
for public services at the Vermont Law
School. Bissett worked previously at Mary
Washington College.

 

 

 

 

Three new librarians

Three new librarians have joined the staff
of Washington and Lee, two in the law
school library and one in the University
Library.

John S. Coleman has been named
assistant professor and director of the Audio-
Visual Center in the University Library.
Coleman is a graduate of Radford College
with a degree in library science from the
University of North Carolina.

Previously reference and audio-visual
librarian at Wingate College in North
Carolina, Coleman will be involved in the
planning for and establishment of the
library’s new Audio-Visual Center.

Terry Lee Beckwith has been named
associate law librarian while John P. Bissett

 

BREE

Faculty on leave

Ten Washington and Lee faculty
members are on leaves of absence this fall,
undertaking research projects that range from
a study of geomorphic processes to an
examination of alternative Christian
approaches to economic justice.

Three faculty members are pursuing their
research abroad during the fall term: Edwin
D. Craun, associate professor of English, is
carrying out research on Medieval and
Renaissance narrative tragedy at the
University of Oxford; L. Randlett Emmons,
professor of biology, is at the University of
Basel in Switzerland; studying
immunogenetics; and, Emory Kimbrough Jr.,
professor of sociology, is at Chung Chi
College in Hong Kong where he is involved
in research on the extent to which the
writings of Charles Darwin have influenced
sociological perspective.

Other W&L faculty members on leave
this fall are:

Harlan R. Beckley, assistant professor of
religion, who is researching alternative
Christian approaches to economic justice at
the University of Chicago;

Roger B. Jeans, associate professor of
history, who is conducting research to

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Cusick, ’56, of Bethesda, Md., present Washington and Lee Athletic Director Bill
McHenry with a limited edition LeRoy Neiman print of the 1976 Montreal Olympics. The Cusicks, whose
son, Ambler, is a junior at W&L, made the gift during Parents’ Weekend in October. The Neiman print

will be hung in the gymnasium.

complete a biography of Carsun Chang, a
well-known Chinese politician and
philosopher. Jeans hopes to conduct part of
his research in China later this year;

Odell S. McGuire, professor of geology,
who is studying geomorphic processes;

I. Taylor Sanders II, associate professor
of history, who is researching the career of
Robert Wood, 18th century traveler, scholar,
writer and politician;

Hampden H. Smith III, associate
professor of journalism, who is conducting
research into contemporary journalistic
practices with particular emphasis on new
technology;

Joseph E. Ulrich, professor of law, who
is completing work on the papers of Caldwell
Butler relating to the New Bankruptcy Act
and is also undertaking research into the type
of evidence that would be admissible under
Wrongful Death Statutes;

Robert L. Wilson, associate professor of
mathematics, who is writing a textbook on
structured programming.

Four of the faculty members—Beckley,
Craun, Emmons and Jeans—are on leave for
the entire academic year while the others are
on leave for the fall term only.

 

 

16 students win
ROTC scholarships

Sixteen Washington and Lee University
undergraduates have earned Army ROTC
scholarships this year.

The 16 new scholarship winners bring to
34 the number of current W&L students with
ROTC scholarships. That total represents 11
percent of all the students in Washington and
Lee’s Military Science curriculum.

W&L’s new two-year winners, all
members of the class of 1983, are Newton P.
Kendrick of Norfolk, Robert G. Ortiz of
Hopewell, and Reen D. Waterman Jr. of
Queenstown, Md.

Three-year scholarship winners in the
class of 1984 are Edward J. O’Brien of
Norwich, N.Y., Timothy P. Rock of
Houston, Tex., and Christopher D. Wright
of Liberty, Ind.

Eight W&L freshmen earned full four-
year scholarships. They are David D.
Branscom of Fincastle, Va., David B. Byers
of Havre de Grace, Md., Andrew B. Cole of
Spencer, Mass., Robert A. Kurek II of
Manassas, Va., John D. Mixon Jr. of
Gainesville, Ga., Scott G. Nagley of
Martinsburg, W.Va., James C. Thompson of
Frankfort, N.Y., and Roy F. Unger Jr. of
Havre de Grace, Md.

25

Chapter News

COLUMBIA. The Palmetto Chapter gave a
big W&L welcome to the new students from
the area at a reception on Aug. 5 at the lake-
side home of Jay Nexsen, ’76. Among the
guests were current W&L students from the
area. Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy
Atkins, ’68, and Chapter President Claude
Walker, ’71, helped greet the freshmen along
with a large number of alumni who spanned
several decades at W&L. The chapter
continues to do a good job of attracting many
outstanding young men to Washington and
Lee each year from schools in the area.

WASHINGTON. Despite a torrential rain
storm, the chapter’s annual reception for new
freshmen and first-year law students was
highly successful. The event was held on
Aug. 11, again at the home of Ranny Rouse,
°39, in Alexandria, Va. Perhaps the largest
group ever to attend the meeting enjoyed
cocktails beside the pool before the rain
came. When the storm hit, host Rouse
received the guests into his home to take
refuge from the rain and everyone partook of
an excellent buffet dinner. A special guest
was University Trustee Waller Dudley, °43,
°47L. The arrangements were made by
Chapter President Tom Howard, ’68, Mike
Jarboe, ’75, and Tim Thompson, ’74. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, was present to
welcome the 14 undergraduate freshmen

and 13 incoming law students and their
parents. When the rain subsided, Howard
expressed appreciation to Rouse for his
hospitality, and the host was accorded a toast
and standing ovation. Many of those who
had been attending these events over the
years noted that this was the first time in
their memory that the guests had been
obliged to seek cover in the Rouse home. The
gala occasion concluded with a rousing
rendition of ‘‘The W&L Swing.”’

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. The chapter’s
annual reception for incoming freshmen and
law students was held on Aug. 12 at the
Bavarian Inn in Shepherdstown, W.Va. The
gathering attracted one of the largest groups
of alumni ever to attend a chapter function.
The group enjoyed a delicious dinner, which
was preceded by a spirited cocktail hour.
James B. Crawford III, 67, ’72L, outgoing
president, presided and introduced the five

26

undergraduates and first-year law students
from the area who entered W&L this fall. He
noted that the chapter now has 17 current
students at W&L, many of whom were at the
meeting. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn,
"40, was present and gave statistics on the
freshman class and reported on alumni
activities scheduled for the fall. The principal
speaker was Coach Chuck O’Connell, who
reviewed University policies on physical
education and intercollegiate athletics. He
also reported in detail on specific sports,
chiefly football and lacrosse with which he is
personally involved as a coach. After his
talk, he answered questions from the
audience. During the business session, Roger
Perry, ’54L, gave the treasurer’s report, and
M. Kenneth Long, ’69, reported for the
nominating committee. These officers were
elected: Howard S. Kaylor, ’50, president;
James H. Clapp, ’30, vice president; Dr.
Clovis M. Snyder, ’51, secretary-treasurer.
Named to the board of directors were Jim
Crawford, ’67, ’°72L; J. Hamp Tisdale, ’74L;
Judge Robert Clapp, ’30; A. A. (Bud)
Radcliffe, 37; J. Oakley Seibert, ’68, ’71L;
Sam Strite, 29, Tom Kaylor, ’45, ’49L;
Clyde E. Smith, ’42; Charlie Bell, 56; and
Harry George, ’36.

TIDEWATER. Officers and directors of
the chapter held a reception on Aug. 19 for
area freshmen and their parents. The.
gathering was at the restored colonial home
of John Richard, ’70, in downtown Norfolk.
Alumni Director Peter Agelasto, ’62, and
Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins,
’68, joined the chapter in greeting the
freshmen and their parents. The occasion
provided them an excellent opportunity to
meet one another before coming to
Lexington. Family tradition at Washington
and Lee was highlighted by the presence of
the Dewing brothers from Portsmouth: Doug,
°77, Andy, ’84, and the latest to attend the
school, Henry, ’85.

CHARLOTTE. Entering freshmen Jim
Cobb and John Roberts and their parents,
were honored guests of the chapter at a
barbeque on Aug. 22. Chapter President
Henry Harkey, ’70, and his wife, Cathy,
were hosts at their home for the reception
and dinner. Harkey and Assistant Alumni

Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, welcomed the
newest members of the W&L family from
the Charlotte area with brief remarks. New
officers for the 1981-82 year were elected:
Averill Harkey, ’74, president; Luther
Dudley, ’76, vice president; Bill Sturges,
°75, secretary-treasurer.

NEW YORK. The chapter’s annual
reception for incoming freshmen was held on
Aug. 26 at the New York Athletic Club.
Many W&L alumni were present to greet a
large number of the 34 new freshmen from
the New York area. Chapter President Paul
Perkins, ’74, after welcoming the new
students, called on Pete Williams, ’79, Eric
Kolts, ’82, and Jon Pakula, ’82, to comment
briefly on various aspects of life at the
University. They covered the Honor System,
athletic program, fraternities, and
extracurricular activities; their remarks were
enthusiastically received. After that
discussion, Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
welcomed the new students on behalf of the
University, stressing its pride in the new
freshman class, and presented a profile of the
new class. A question-and-answer period
followed his remarks.

NEW JERSEY. Charles F. Porzig, ’35,
chairman of the New Jersey Alumni
Admissions Program, along with several of
his committeemen, was host at a reception
for incoming freshmen and their parents from
the New Jersey area on Aug. 27 at the Glen
Ridge Country Club in Glen Ridge, N.J.
Four of the six freshmen from the area as
well as several current students attended the
meeting. Porzig welcomed the students and
then called on the current students to
comment on life at Washington and Lee and
on what the freshmen might expect during
their first week in Lexington. Their remarks
created a great deal of interest. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, presented a
profile of the Class of 1985 and thanked
Porzig and the alumni admissions committee
for their efforts in recruiting excellent
students from the area. Washburn also told
of plans for future alumni meetings on the
New Jersey side of the Hudson which would
not in any way conflict with the chapter in
the greater New York area. A question-and-
answer period concluded the meeting.

 

 

 

COLUMBIA—Palmetto chapter alumni and current students gathered on the WASHINGTON—A portion of guests at the Washington, D.C., meeting
deck at Jay Nexsen’s lake house. gather at poolside of the home of Ranny Rouse, ’39, before a sudden shower
caused everyone to scurry for shelter.

CUMBERLAND—Mr. and Mrs. Karl A. Shreiner, parents of W&L freshman Cc UMBERLAND—Renewing acquaintances ataC umberland Valley meeting
Curt Shreiner of Chambersburg, Pa., chat with Mr. and Mrs. I. Glenn are, from left, Robert E. Clapp, ’30; A. A. Radcliff, ’37; John M. McCardell,
Shively, ’36, of Chambersburg during a Cumberland Valley meeting. 37; and Clovis M. Snyder, ’51.

 

CHARLOTTE—Charlotte chapter welcomes area freshmen. From left, Tom ~ CHARLOTTE—Parents of Charlotte area freshmen are greeted at a barbecue

Mattesky, ’74; Brian Gibson, ’82; and, Phillip Rockecharlie, ’82. With backs held by the Charlotte chapter. Henry Harkey, ’71, chapter president is seated
to the camera are Charlotte area members of W&L’s Class of ’85, Jim Cobb across from Mr. and Mrs. J. Everett Roberts and is next to Mr. and Mrs.
and John Roberts. James T. Cobb.

   

#

NEW YORK—The New York chapter met with freshmen from the New York NEW JERSEY—Incoming freshmen and their parents from the New Jersey are
area. From left, David Dederick, Brian Johnson, Doug Raines, Scott Kennedy, were guests of the New Jersey chapter. Seated, from left, Chapin M. Boyd, ’50;
Bill Vandeventer, Eric Kolts, ’82, and Craig Frascati. Charles F. Porzig, ’35; Roger S. Denu, ’55; Donald G. McKaba, ’56; and,
Ted J. Van Leer, ’77. Standing, from left, W&L freshmen Evan Vogel, Dave
DuBois, Don McKaba, and Bryan Johnson.

27

 

Chapter News

NASHVILLE. Members of the Middle
Tennessee Chapter entertained area freshmen
and current Washington and Lee students at a
reception on Aug. 28 at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. James F. Gallivan. Gallivan, ’51, is
president of the Alumni Board of Directors.
Gary Wilkinson, ’68, and his wife traveled
from Florence, Ala., to attend the meeting.
Milburn Noell, ’51, 54L, regional
development associate, and his wife,
Woody, represented the University at this
annual event.

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA. Members of
the chapter gathered for a cocktail reception
on Sept. 11 at the Marines Memorial Club in
downtown San Francisco. A large number of
interested alumni and their guests attended
the meeting which was designed to promote
greater interest in the chapter and to bring
them up to date on the affairs of the
University. Chapter President Nat Baker,
°67, welcomed the group and reported on the
results of a local-chapter activities
questionnaire which he had designed, mailed
out, and tabulated. He also announced the
formation of a chapter executive committee
to help plan and promote future chapter
programs. University Trustee Jerry South,
’54, reported on the state of the University
from the perspective of a trustee. He
encouraged area alumni to participate
wholeheartedly in plans to make the chapter
more active and visible in California. South
recognized past chapter presidents, Dick
Kuersteiner, 61, John Williamson, ’53,
°56L, and Emmett MacCorkle, ’26, for their
contributions to the growth of the Northern
California Chapter. Kuersteiner, who
attended the twentieth reunion of his class on
campus last May, urged all alumni present
not to pass up a similar opportunity to return
to Lexington. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn, ’40, presented recent slides of the
campus, showing physical improvements at
W&L and the preservation of the traditional
atmosphere of the campus. He reported on
the current status of the nearly completed
decade-long development program and
expressed the University’s gratitude to all
alumni for their generous support of the
Annual Fund. Washburn and Assistant
Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, 68,
answered questions at the conclusion of the
program.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA. (Los
Angeles). Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
and Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy
Atkins visited the Los Angeles area for
several days in mid-September to explore
with alumni the benefits of reorganizing the.

28

Los Angeles Chapter into two or more
divisions. In this connection, two alumni
programs were held in Los Angeles proper
and another in Orange County, which is
reported separately. The first Los Angeles
meeting was a luncheon on Sept. 15 at the
Sheraton Town House on Wilshire
Boulevard. John Scheifly, ’48, helped with
the arrangements. About 20 alumni, several
accompanied by their wives, heard brief
remarks by University Trustee Jerry South,
’54, of San Francisco, president of BA
Mortgage and International Realty Corp.
Washburn and Atkins showed recent slides
of the campus. After discussing the
reorganization plan, the group agreed that
two divisions would be helpful, and
everyone expressed the hope for more
regularly scheduled activities. The second
Los Angeles program was a cocktail-
reception held at the corporate headquarters
of the Crocker National Bank.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (Orange
County). An enthusiastic group of alumni
and their wives met on Sept. 16 at the
Fireside Restaurant in Westminster and
welcomed plans for reorganization of the
chapter and greater alumni participation in
the area. Frank McCormick, ’53, of Yorba
Linda made the arrangements for the
cocktails and a delicious steak dinner.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn and
Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins
made a brief report on the University and
showed recent slides of the campus.
McCormick thanked Washburn and Atkins
for their visit and pledged the group’s full
support of greater alumni activities.

SAN DIEGO. The San Diego Yacht Club
was the lovely setting for a meeting attended
by a large number of alumni and their wives.
The gathering was marked by camaraderie
and the renewing of college friendships.
Following cocktails and a delicious dinner,
John Klinedinst, ’71, chapter president,
expressed appreciation to Phil Sharp, ’62, for
having made, through his membership, the
Yacht Club available for the meeting.
Klinedinst reported that W&L Admissions
Director Bill Hartog would soon be making a
visit to the area. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn spoke briefly on the state of the
University, stressing its efforts to enhance
alumni activities in California. Assistant
Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins showed
slides of the campus, which were
enthusiastically received. The meeting closed
with renditions of ‘‘The W&L Swing’’ and
‘College Friendships.’’ On Oct. 2, W&L
alumni participated in the San Diego area’s

first Old Dominion Reunion, which brought
together alumni and alumnae of Virginia
colleges. The Bio-Rhythms, a big band
composed of 17 off-duty doctors from the
University of California at San Diego,
entertained the guests at the Admiral Kidd
Club located on San Diego Bay.

PHOENIX. Under the leadership of Walter
Hunter, ’50, a large number of W&L alumni
from the Phoenix area and their wives
gathered for an evening of fun and
reminiscing at the Registry Resort on Sept.
18 in Scottsdale. Alumni from as far away as
Sun City joined in the camaraderie including
piano music and renditions of ‘“The W&L
Swing.’’ After dinner, Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn and Assistant Alumni Secretary
Buddy Atkins showed slides of the campus
and answered questions about the University.
During the brief business session, Walter
Hunter (upon the nomination of John French,
50) was re-elected president of the chapter.

TUCSON. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn and Assistant Alumni Secretary
Buddy Atkins greeted an enthusiastic group
of alumni on Sept. 19 at the Lodge-on-the-
Desert in Tucson. A delicious dinner
followed a cocktail reception. Washburn and
Atkins showed slides of the campus and
answered questions. Arrangements for the
meeting were made by Dr. F. Pendleton
Gaines, 39, who is currently dean of
administration at the University of Arizona.
Washburn thanked members of the chapter
for the important role they were playing in
the work of the Alumni Association.

WISCONSIN. The Wisconsin and Chicago
chapters joined the Milwaukee Art Museum
in sponsoring an exhibit of the University’s
Reeves Collection of Chinese Export
Porcelain from Sept. 13 to Nov. 8. An
enthusiastic group of alumni gathered at the
exhibit on Sept. 26 to hear James W.
Whitehead, University secretary, tell the
story of the collection. Following this
program at Villa Terrace, all alumni, their
wives, and guests had dinner at the world-
famous John Ernst Cafe. David R. Braun,
°76, chapter president, made arrangements
for the dinner meeting. In his remarks, Braun
recognized several members who had helped
him with the arrangements. He also
introduced special guests, including
President and Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley,
Trustee and Mrs. Ross Millhiser, and
Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill Washburn.
President Huntley and Trustee Millhiser
made brief remarks which were
enthusiastically received.

 

     

ee

:e ig a) _
LOS ANGELES—Members of the Los Angeles-Orange County chapter gathered SAN DIEGO—Seated, from left, F. L. Price, ’38;

D.C. Thompson, Wai

   

for a reception in September. From left, Frank McCormick, ’53; Mrs. Jack J. Keith Jr.,’42; G. R. Myers, ’36; and, W. T. Shafer, ’39. Standing, from
Barrie; John Lane, ’50L; Jack Barrie, ’52; Mrs. Hart Baker; Hart Baker, ’ 38; left, C. B. Curtis Jr.,’41; P. D. Sharp Jr., ’62, ’64L; W. S. Wildrick, ’67;
Paul Hendry, ’80; and Paul Brower, ’68. H. W. Dietrich Jr., ’52; J. D. Klinedinst,’71, ’78L; R. C. Young Jr., 62;

P.R.Speckman Jr.,’57,’60L; W. G. Moseley, ’62; and, J. E. Michaelsen, ’64.

    
   
    

PHOENIX—Menmbers of the Phoenix chapter gathered at the Registry PHOENIX—The Phoenix chapter meeting brought W&L alumni from as far
Resort in Scottsdale. From left, Hillard Harper, ’33; Mrs. Harper; Everett away as Sun City. Taking part in the meeting were, from left, Reinhard W.
Cross, 32; Mrs. Cross; Ms. Vivian; Sam E. Conklin, ’52. Fischer, ’69; Mrs. Fischer; Mrs. Stephen S. Case; Stephen S. Case, ’66, ’69L.

TUCSON—The Tucson chapter met in September at the Lodlge-on-the-Desert. TUCSON—Dr. F. Pendleton Gaines, 39, right, arranged for the Tucson
From left, Wallace E. Clayton, ’44; Ms. Carr; Edwin M. Gaines, ’56; and, meeting and chats with Lee Mullins, ’58, left, and Col. Ben Anderson, ’ 38,
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley, parents of W&L freshman Chris Bradley. center.

 

Ps

WISCONSIN—The Wisconsin and Chicago chapters joined the Milwaukee WISCONSIN—A number of guests arrive at the exhibition of the Reeves

Art Museum in sponsoring an exhibition of the University’s Reeves Collection. Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain at the Villa Terrace of the Milwaukee
From left, Mrs. James D. Utterback; Ms. Robertson; James D. Utterback, ’77; Art Museum. Included among the guests were Washington and Lee President
L. James Lawson, ’77; and, Miss Foxe. Robert E. R. Huntley, left background; Trustee Ross Millhiser, right background;

and, Mrs. Huntley, in foreground.

29

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’ 14.

Note Change in Rocker: A new, more comfortable, and better looking rocker is
now offered. The seat has been raised to ‘‘chair height’’; the back spindles are
‘“steam bent’’ and lance shaped; new leg turnings and redesigned arms add to its
appeal.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $120.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $105.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

30

1909

Howarb B. LEE was recently featured in the West
Virginia Hillbilly, a weekly newspaper in Summer-
ville, W.Va. Lee, at age 102, is the oldest living
graduate and sole survivor of his class at Marshall
University, formerly Marshall College. After Lee
received his law degree from Washington and Lee in
1909 he became prosecuting attorney for Mercer
County. He retired from law practice in Charleston in
1942 and moved to Stuart, W.Va., where he began
writing. His best seller, Bloodletting in Appalachia,
is achronicle of the battles between miners and mine
operators over unionization. The book is now in
its tenth printing. Lee has also written several other
books.

1926

HARRY PFEFFER was one of three persons honored in
October 1980 by Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst,
N.Y. Included in his many activities, Pfeffer has
been president of the Minyan Society and an affiliate
of the Temple for 10 years. Prior to these achieve-
ments, Harry received a certificate from the Nassau
County Bar Association, commemorating 50 years of
active practice before the Bar of the state of New
York.

1937

STANLEY BARROWS, chairman of the department of
interior design at the Fashion Institute of Technology
in New York City, has had two articles appear in
the September and October issues of the Architectural
Digest.

1938

LAURENS D. WILD, formerly a sales executive with
Unijax, a wholesale paper firm, has retired and is
taking a teaching position in graphic arts at Central
Piedmont Community College. He lives in Charlotte,
N.C.

1939

WARREN H. EDWarps, a member of the Kiwanis
Club of Orlando, Fla., was elected to a vice presidency
of Kiwanis International on July 1, 1981, during the
66th annual convention in New Orleans, La. Edwards
was first elected to the board in 1977. He has served
one two-year term as a trustee and is currently com-
pleting his second two-year term. Edwards is a mem-
ber of the American Bar Association and the Florida
Bar. He is a past president of the Orange County Bar
Association, former County Solicitor of Orange
County, and former judge of the Criminal Court of
Record, Orange County. A retired colonel from the
Marine Corps, Edwards is active in a number of city
and state organizations.

1946

WILLIAM C. (BILL) OLENDORF is an artist in Chicago.
At a recent dinner, hosted by Gov. James Thompson,
for President Reagan a painting by Olendorf of Rea-

gan’s childhood home in Dixon, Ill., was presented
to the president. An Olendorf painting of Mrs. Rea-
gan’s childhood home was also presented. Olendorf
Sat at the speaker’s rostrum next to Congressman
Henry Hyde.

1951

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, former vice president of Com-
merce National Bank in Nashville, Tenn. , has become
vice president and national sales manager for J. C.
Bradford & Co., a member of the New York Stock
Exchange. Gallivan is the 1981-82 president of the
Washington & Lee Alumni Association.

1952

CHARLES ROCKEL, who heads a food brokerage firm,
has been named mayor of Terrace Park, Ohio. Rockel
has been a resident of Terrace Park for 12 years and a
member of the city council for six of those years.

1954

NorMaAN L. Dosyns has been named vice president
of public affairs for Northern Telecom Inc. He will be
based in Washington, D.C., and is responsible for the
direction of the company’s public affairs and the
coordination of its relationships with the federal gov-
ernment. Northern Telecom Inc. is a leading supplier
of telecommunications and electronic office systems
to the telecommunications industry, business, in-
stitutions, and government. Prior to joining Northern
Telecom, Dobyns was the Washington representative
for the Eaton Corp. He was named to that position
when Eaton acquired Cutler Hammer, where he had
been vice president of government relations. Prior to
joining Cutler Hammer, he was senior vice president
of the National Association of Manufacturers and
corporate vice president of government relations with
the American Can Company.

HENRY A. TURNER, professor of history at Yale
University, has been named Master of Davenport
College. An expert on the history of modern Europe,
Germany in particular, Turner has been a member of
the Yale faculty since 1958. He served as chairman of
the history department from 1976 to 1979. Following
graduation from Washington and Lee, Turner spent a
year studying at the University of Munich and the
Free University of Berlin. He received his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from Princeton in 1957 and 1960 re-
spectively and an honorary Doctor of Letters from
Washington and Lee in 1978. Professor Turner has
received a number of major fellowships, including a
Stimson Research Fellowship 1960-61, a Guggenheim
Fellowship 1965-66, a Fulbright Research Professor-
ship in 1972, aresearch grant from Historische Kom-
mission zu Berlin in 1976 and a Rockefeller Founda-
tion Humanities Fellowship in 1979-80. Turner is the
author of several books and numerous articles dealing
with the political and economic history of modern
Germany with a focus on the comparative aspects of
European fascism. He and his wife have three chil-
dren.

  

fe : ee
W. H. Edwards, ’39 N.L

1956

WILLIAM H. HousrTOn III, a farm leader in Tunica,
Miss., has been appointed to the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Board. Houston produces cotton, rice, soybeans
and wheat. He has served on the national cotton
advisory committee and has been active in the Na-
tional Cotton Council.

1957

H. MERRILL PLAISTED III and two partners have
purchased Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., Realtors from
Continental Financial Services Co. in Richmond.
Morton G. Thalhimer was founded in 1913 and has
been held as a private corporation for all but the last
11 years. The companies will return to private owner-
ship.

CHARLES L. SHERMAN IV retired from the Army in
1978 and entered the life insurance business with
Business Men’s Assurance Company of America. He
was recently promoted to manager of the Tucson,
Ariz., district. He is a member of the Million Dollar
Roundtable.

1958

EDWARD M. (NED) GEORGE is president and chief
officer of the Wellsburg National Bank in Wellsburg,
W.Va. He is also president of the Ohio Valley In-
dustrial Business Development Corp., director of the
Wheeling area Chamber of Commerce, and a member
of the executive committee and finance chairman of
the West Virginia Ladies Professional Golf Associa-
tion Classic for the past three years.

MADISON WRIGHT has recently been promoted to the
position of vice president of claims counsel of Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. in Houston, Texas. Wright joined
the legal department in 1970. Before joining the
company he had a private law practice in Lake Jack-
son, Texas.

1959

OweN H. HARPER has been named chairman of
Crocker Financial Advisors, Inc., a subsidiary of the
Crocker National Corp. He was also named executive
vice president of Crocker Bank and its parent cor-
poration. Harper will continue as senior strategic
planning officer of both the corporation and the bank
and vice chairman of the bank’s credit policy com-
mittee. He is amember of the W&L Alumni Board of
Directors.

Marine Corps Reserve CoOL. CHARLES SWOPE, presi-
dent of the First National Bank of West Chester, Pa.,
has been awarded the Meritorious Service Medal, a
presidential award, for ‘‘outstanding meritorious
service’ while serving as commanding officer of his
Wilmington, Del. reserve unit from August 1978
through June 1981. The citation also commends
Swope for ‘‘transcending his appointed duties and
responsibilities.’’ Swope served as president of the
West Chester State College board of trustees from
1965 to 1972. He was president of the Rotary Club

  

  

  

 

GS
. Dobyns, ’54

J.C. Hoyt, ’62

and the Chamber of Commerce. In addition to his
post at First National Bank, Swope is president of
Eachus Dairies Co. and the Swope Foundation.

1960

RICHARD S. WOLF has been named assistant vice
president of the Life Insurance Company of Georgia.
Wolf joined Life of Georgia in 1964 as an actuarial
assistant, was promoted to manager and assistant
actuary in 1968 and advanced to associate actuary in
1973, becoming manager-group rates and benefits
later that year. He is a fellow in the Society of Ac-
tuaries and is a former president of the Atlanta Ac-
tuarial Club. He and his wife, the former Thelma
Cohn, have two children.

1961

J. HARVEY ALLEN JR., president of the W&L alumni
chapter in Dallas, is a busy man, heading up, along
with his father, the 80-year-old J. H. Allen Co., a
manufacturers’ representative firm founded by his
grandfather. Still, he finds time to indulge in a hobby
that goes back to his days at Washington and Lee.
This summer he became a part-time announcer and
newscaster for Dallas FM station KOAX, which has
an ‘‘easy-listening’’ format. Allen gained experience
in radio broadcasting over Radio Washington and
Lee (now WLUR-FM) during his college days.
Although he stayed away from the mike until now, he
kept his FCC license updated and maintained his
contacts in the business. ‘‘I never expected to become
a radio or TV celebrity or anything like that,’’ he is
quoted as saying. ‘‘It’s just something I enjoy doing,
and I have a lot of personal friends in the field. To me,
it’s more fun than work.’’

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS has been promoted to the
position of president of United American Group’s
Corporate Division in Atlanta, Ga. Since, 1976,
McWilliams had been executive vice president of the
United American Bank in Knoxville, Tenn., the flag-
ship of United American Group, a financial services
corporation. Jake F. Butcher, head of the corporation,
said that the establishment of the corporate division
headed by McWilliams means that Atlanta will be-
come the hub of the group’s corporate activities
throughout the Southeast. McWilliams was formerly
with Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. in Asheville, N.C.,
and with the Bank of Virginia in Richmond. He is a
member of the board of directors of Lindsey-Ward,
Inc., Dilso, Inc., and Cameron-Downing & Co. He
and his wife, Karen, have two daughters.

1962

Justus C. Hoyt, sales manager of Scranton Cor-
rugated Box Co. of Scranton, Pa., has been promoted
to vice president and general manager of that facility.
Scranton Corrugated Box Co. is a division of the
Chesapeake Corp. Before joining the company in
1978, Hoyt worked for Continental Group, Inc., Sy-
racuse, N.Y., as a general manager and sales man-
ager. He previously worked for Continental as a
salesman in Detroit, and the International Paper Co. ,
of Geneva, N.Y.

31

 

V. Galef, ’65

STEVEN H. SUTTLE, an attorney in Abilene, Texas,
has been re-elected to the board of directors of the
American Judicature Society. Suttle is a past chairman
of the board of directors of the Texas Young Lawyers
Association. He is amember and past chairman of the
Texas Commission on Jail Standards and a fellow of
the Texas Bar Foundation. In 1976, Suttle received
the local Outstanding Young Lawyer’s Award.

JONATHAN N. GILLETT has been appointed president
of Franklin Watts, Inc., of New York City by the
parent company, Grolier, Inc.

1964

DouGLas E. BALLARD, after 17 years in the practice
of law, is now employed by CACTI, Inc.-Federal in
Arlington, Va., as senior associate of support systems
division. He is an international business consultant
specializing in Middle East and North African affairs.

E. RANDOLPH WOoOTON JR., formerly of Ridgewood,
N.J., has recently moved to Atlanta, Ga., where he is
heading up the regional headquarters for Robert
Jameson Associates, a career consulting firm based
in New Jersey.

1965

VICTOR GALEF has joined Menley & James Labora-
tories, a Smith Kline company, as vice president of
marketed products strategy. In his new position, Galef
will direct all marketing activities for MenJ’s nation-
ally distributed products, including Contac, Dietac,
Sine-Off, Teldrin, A.R.M., and their line extensions.
Before joining MenJ, Galef was group product man-
ager for Miles Laboratories. His marketing experience
also includes serving as director of marketing for
Wyler Foods, brand manager for Calgon Consumer
Products, and a vice president and accounts supervisor
for Ted Bates & Co. Advertising. He is a member of
the American Marketing Association. Galef and his
wife, Mimi, have three children and live in Malvern,
Pa.

Dr. JOLYON P. GIRARD, associate professor of history
at Gabrini College in Radnor, Pa., has been appointed
acting chairman of the department. He lives in Cherry
Hill, N.J.

1966
MARRIAGE: Ear T. Berry and Cheryl McMillan
on Sept. 19, 1981, in Bartow, Ga. They live in Dallas
where Berry is a partner in the law firm of Crutcher,
Hull, Ramsey and Jordan.

MARRIAGE: H. L. (Lock) HANDLEY III and Sherry
J. Carter on May 23, 1981. The couple lives in
Washington, D.C.

1967

BENJAMIN D. S. GAMBILL JrR., president of Braid
Electric Co., has been named to the board of directors

32

for Nashville City Bank. Gambill is also president of
the Rotary Club and on the executive committee of
the Chamber of Commerce.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBert B. CARTER, a daugh-
ter, Christina Darracott, on Aug. 21, 1981, in Char-
lottesville. Carter earned his doctorate in educational
administration and supervision in May 1981 from the
University of Virginia. He is an administrator in the
Albemarle County school system.

A. ALLING JONES is with the estate planning division
of the New York Life Insurance Co. in Macon, Ga.
Recently he had an article published in The Flannery
O’ Connor Bulletin at Georgia College. The article is
entitled ‘‘Looking at Flannery O’Connor’s Georgia:
a critique of photographs by Barbara McKenzie.’’

ALEX S. JONES, editor of the Greeneville, Tenn.,

 

Sun, has received a Nieman Fellowship entitling him
to a year’s study at Harvard University. The fellow-
ships were awarded to six men and five women jour-
nalists. Recipients may study subjects of their choice.
At the time Jones received word of his award, he was
in Sweden with a six-member exchange group under
the Rotary International Exchange Program. A similar
group from Sweden will visit the United States during
the summer.

ROBERT S. KEEFE is Toronto office editor for Mc-
Kinsey and Co., the international management con-
sulting firm. He was temporarily assigned to the
Cleveland office, but now is permanently attached to
the office in Toronto, where he lives.

GeorcE L. KistLer III completed medical school at
the University of California at San Francisco and is
now an intern at the University of Oregon in Portland.

1969
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JAMes J. LIVESAY, a son,
Grant Watson, on April 29, 1981. The young man
joins an older sister. Dr. Livesay completed his resi-
dency in thoracic surgery and has become an associate
of Dr. Denton A. Cooley at the Texas Heart Institute
in Houston.

J. Scott APTER, president of Apter Industries, Inc..,
in McKeesport, Pa., is a school board member of the
McKeesport area school district and chairman of the
United Way of Allegheny County Review Commit-
tee. He is also a board member of the Jewish Family
and Children’s Service. Scott and his wife, Ruth,
have 3 daughters.

STEPHEN L. ECHOLS has joined the Roanoke, Va.,
law firm of Wetherington, Flippin, Melchionna and
Burton. He had been a lawyer for the Internal Revenue
Service in Washington.

In June 1980, W. STEVEN JONES joined the legal
department of Atlantic Richfield after seven years as
an attorney with the Environmental Protection
Agency’s region VIII office. He and his wife, Charla,
live in Denver.

H. DANIEL ROGERS JR. was recently elected president
of the Mohawk-Hudson section of the American
Society of Civil Engineers. In addition to working as
a structural engineer for the state of New York trans-
portation department, he is an adjunct professor of
civil engineering at Union College in Schenectady.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES P. COWELL, a
daughter, Marissa Anne LaHue, on June 3, 1980.
Cowell was an assistant professor of chemistry at
West Virginia University for two years and is now
seeking a teaching position at acommunity college in
southern California. He expects to complete his doc-
torate in chemistry soon.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. PHILLIPS, a son,

   

B. W. Crigler, ’70 H. D. Leddy, ’71
William Russell Jr., on Feb. 26, 1981. Phillips is
assistant regional counsel of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency at the Atlanta regional office.

B. WAUGH CRIGLER has been appointed as United
States Magistrate for the Western District of Virginia
in Charlottesville. Crigler is a principal in the firm of
Davies, Crigler, Barrell & Will, P.C., of Culpeper,
Va. He is the immediate past president of the Culpeper
Bar, is a current member of the executive committee
of the Virginia Bar Association Young Lawyers Sec-
tion, and is co-chairman of the ABA Young Lawyers’
community projects committee. He is married to the
former Anne Kendall and they have three children.

1971

MARRIAGE: JOHN D. KLINEDINST and Cynthia Lynn
Du Bain were married on Aug. 15, 1981, in Del Mar,
Calif. Duncan Klinedinst, ’74, was best man. Also
attending were Bill Wildrick, ’67, Max L. Elliott,
°40, Horace Dietrich, ’52, and Frank L. Price, ’36,
°38L. Klinedinst is an attorney with Whitney &
Klinedinst in San Diego.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND II, a
son, Christopher Arthur, on June 7, 1981. The family
lives in Spartanburg, S.C.

JAMES W. GORDON has been appointed an assistant
professor of law at Western New England College
School of Law in Springfield, Mass. He earned his
J.D. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Ken-
tucky after completing his bachelors degree at the
University of Louisville.

ROBERT R. JENSEN is a theater instructor, scenic
designer and technical director at Fullerton College.
He did his graduate work at the University of Virginia
and taught English and drama in secondary schools in
New Jersey and southern California. Jensen has de-
signed sets for 30 different productions. He lives in
Fullerton, Calif., with his wife, Sandra, and son,
Garrett, 4.

H. Drake Leppy has been elected to the partnership
of the international public accounting firm of Arthur
Andersen & Co. Leddy became a partner in the tax
practice of the firm’s office in San Antonio, Texas.
Leddy joined the Houston office of Arthur Andersen
& Co. in 1973, and transferred to the San Antonio
office in 1978. He has been active in several charitable
and civic organizations’ in the area, including the
Chamber of Commerce and the San Antonio Museum
Association.

TAIN P. TOMPKINS is currently with the deputy direc-
tor of Executive Secretariat Staff in the Department
of State in Washington, D.C.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. HAGOoD ELLISON JR., a
daughter, Eleanor VanBenthuysen, on Sept. 8, 1981,
in Columbia, S.C. Ellison: is a broker for Merrill
Lynch.

   

M. Kurilecz 7 "75

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomas G. KEEFE, a son,
their first child, Thomas II, on July 31. Attending the
christening on Aug. 30 were his three W&L uncles,
John B. Keefe, ’76, of Richmond, the godfather;
Peter C. Keefe, ’78, of Vienna, Va.; and Robert S.
Keefe, ’68, of Toronto, Canada, and Mrs. James
Bland Martin, a member of the W&L Board of Trus-
tees and Mr. Martin, ’31L, of Gloucester, Va. Keefe
and his wife live in Newport News, where he works
as a corporate planning executive for Newport News
Industries Inc., a subsidiary of Tenneco.

JOHN P. MELLO is manager of project analysis and
control for Kimberly Clark de Mexico, in Mexico
City.

JOHN T. REYNOLDs has been named a director of the
law firm of Green & Kaufman, Inc., in San Antonio,
Texas.

H. L. HANDLEY (See 1966.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. HALLER JACKSON III, a
son, Thomas Haller IV, on Aug. 17, 1981. Jackson is
an attorney in Shreveport, La.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS A. PORTER, a daugh-
ter, Jennifer Marie, on Feb. 26, 1981, in Richmond.

JEFFREY C. Burris has a law practice in Indianapolis.
He also is a part-time instructor at Indiana University
where he teaches a real estate course. He and his wife
have two sons.

JAMES G. HARDWICK is a realtor for Anderson and
Strudwick in Richmond in addition to his C.P.A.
practice. He co-authored an article, ‘‘Installment
Sales Taxation,’’ in the September 1981 issue of
Real Estate Today. Hardwick is a member of the
education committee of the Virginia Society of
C.P.A.s and had taught accounting for three years at
Virginia Commonwealth University before joining
Anderson and Strudwick.

W. Patrick HINELY has resumed his duties as
W&L’s university photographer after a summer of
freelance professional activity, which included his
fifth year as staff photographer for the Spoleto Festi-
val USA in Charleston, S.C., and documenting the
Jazz City Festival in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada’s
largest jazz festival. The Canadian assignment was
for Swing Journal Magazine of Tokyo, widely ac-
knowledged within the field as the world’s leading
jazz publication.

JAMES R. MCKEON is working with IBM in New
York after four years in Portland, Ore. He and his
wife, Lydia, live in Hohokus, N.J.

MARSHALL WASHBURN received his M.B.A. from
the University of South Carolina in July. Washburn is
a production superintendent for Milliken Co., textile
manufacturers. He and his wife, the former Becky
Marsh, have a daughter and the family lives in Spar-
tanburg, S.C.

   

M. S. LaCroix, ’75

1974
MARRIAGE: KENT MASTERSON BROWN and Victoria
Ann Yates on Oct. 4, 1980. They are both attorneys
and practice health law together in Lexington, Ky. In
November 1980, Brown was named to a two-year
term as commissioner of the Kentucky registry of
election finance by Gov. John Y. Brown Jr.

FLoyp W. LEwis JR. is presently in his third year of
doctoral studies at the New Orleans Baptist Theologi-
cal Seminary. He was married in August 1980 to the
former Janis Kennedy. The couple lives in New Or-
leans.

THOMAS A. MATTESKY has been named assistant
news director for WBTV News in Charlotte, N.C.
Mattesky previously worked for WDBJ in Roanoke,
before joining WBTV as a reporter in May 1979.

Davip M. SHapiro has announced a partnership for
the practice of law under the name of Freed & Shapiro
in Richmond, Va.

1975

MARRIAGE: DUNCAN F. WINTER and Delphine
Marie-Pierre Stillger on Aug. 1, 1981, at the Episco-
pal Cathedral of the Incarnation in Garden City, N.Y.
Winter received an M.S. degree from Adelphi Uni-
versity Graduate School of Banking and Money
Management and was formerly with Gill & Duffus
Ltd., acommodity house in New York. He is currently
attending the Albany Medical College of Union Uni-
versity.

W. DEAN GENGE has joined Doremus and Co. in
New York as an advertising account executive. He
had been an account manager for Business Week, a
division of McGraw-Hill, Inc. Genge is a member of
the Financial Communications Society.

MICHAEL KuRILECZ JR. has been promoted to assist-
ant vice president in the international department of
Mercantile National Bank in Dallas. He has been
with the bank since 1978.

M. STEVEN LaCroix has been named vice president
and general counsel of Snelling and Snelling, Inc.
The Sarasota, Fla., based company is the international
headquarters for Snelling and Snelling, Inc., a fran-
chisor of employment services both nationally and
internationally. He and his wife have three daughters.

1976

MARRIAGE: Rusu S. Dickson III and Paula L.
Calhoun on July 25, 1981, in Kinston, N.C. The
wedding party included classmates Howell Morrison,
Walter Robertson, Will Ogburn and Bruce Thomas.
Among the guests were classmates Sammy Brown,
Bob Kelly, Scotty Farrar and Lu Dudley. They live in
Charlotte, where Dickson has been promoted to di-
rector of merchandising in the corporate office of
Harris-Teeter Supermarkets, Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBERT F. LINDSEY, a son,
33

Class Notes

Robert Francis Jr., on Aug. 13, 1981, in Baltimore,
Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. McCartuy II, a
daughter, Sara Marie, on June 13, 1981, in Rich-
mond. McCarthy is a perfusionist at McGuire Hospi-
tal.

LAWRENCE R. DANIEL opened a district office in
Midland, Texas, for Mosbacher Production Co. He is
responsible for the firm’s oil exploration and produc-
tion activities in the Permian Basin of West Texas and
Southeast New Mexico. Daniel had been with the
offshore and onshore divisions of Pennzoil Co.

Dr. JAMES A. SKELTON has been appointed an assist-
ant professor in the department of psychology and
education at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. He

earned his masters and doctoral degrees at the Uni-
versity of Virginia and also studied at Hollins College

and Duke.
1977

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM M. Bropers and Julie Fitz-
gerald on Aug. 22, 1981, in Dallas, Texas. Attending
the wedding were Dr. Compton Broders SJr., °38, the
groom’s father, and classmates Stuart Coco, Jim Fer-
guson, Peter Torgenson, Mike Kurilecz, John Buck-
thal, Calhoun Colvin and Edgar D. (Gary) Pouch,
"78.

MARRIAGE: Dr. WILLIAM G. BROTHERS and JoAnne
Vipperman on May 30, 1981, at Lee Chapel. Brothers
graduated from the Medical College of Virginia and
is performing a flexible internship at Riverside Hos-
pital in Newport News, Va.

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., the names and addresses of the

 

Wayne D. McGrew, ’*52
Chairman

Wall, Patterson,

McGrew & Hamilton

229 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30303

Room 5000

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill four seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination for the offices to be

 

Name Your Candidate

 

Stanley A. Walton III, ’62, ’65L
Winston & Strawn
One First National Plaza,

Chicago, Ill. 60670

Nominating Committee for 1981-82 are
listed below:

Richard R. Warren, ’57
Consolidated Appraisal Co. Inc.
Suite 1464

60 East 42nd Street

New York, N.Y. 10017

filled. Alumni may send names directly
to any member of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the
Executive Secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation at the University.

The committee will close its report on
March 26, 1982, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 8, 1982.

 

 

34

   

F. R. McIntyre II, '78

MARRIAGE: W. CRaiG COTHRAN and Dorothy C.
Chapman on April |, 1981. The couple lives in Bir-
mingham, Ala., where Cothran is a research assistant
at the Institute of Dental Research of the University of
Alabama.

MARRIAGE: Mark E. HOFFMAN and Kristina Ruth
McCrary on May 16, 1981. Groomsmen were class-
mates John N. Scruggs, Tad Van Leer, and Michael
Hightower. Roy Hoffman Jr., ’50 served as best
man. The couple lives in Birmingham, Ala., where
Hoffman is associated with the law firm of Fulford,
Pope & Minismen.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER C. NorTH, a
son, Matthew Colt, on April 18, 1981. North is a
partner in the Norfolk, Va., law firm of Cooper and
North.

JOHN T. BERLEY earned his M.B.A. from Baylor
University in August, 1981. He is now a senior con-
sultant for Price Waterhouse in Houston.

LANDON W. GARLAND JR. graduated from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Medicine in May 1981.
He is now an intern at Norfolk General Hospital.

KENNETH E. PAYNE is now a second-year student at
the Washington and Lee School of Law.

ANGELO B. SANTELLA has been promoted to captain
and he is also the battalion motor officer. He expects
to attend the Infantry Officers Advance Coursevin
January 1982.

Dr. JAMES B. WOODDELL received his D.D.S. degree
from the University of Maryland School of Dentistry.
He is in private practice in Davidsonville, Md.

1978
MARRIAGE: ParRKE L. BRADLEY and Caroline O. E.
Edgcumbe-Rendel on May 2, 1981, in Amberley,
West Sussex, England. Van Pate, ’71, attended the
wedding. They live in Roanoke where Bradley is a
sales representative for Carolina Ribbon Corp.

MARRIAGE: Mark H. DERBYSHIRE and Melinda
Collins Burgin on May 16, 1981, in Richmond. Mike
Missal, ’78, was a member of the wedding party.
Alumni attending were Dave McLean, ’78, Ron
Spain, ’78, and Ken Miller, ’75. The couple lives in
Richmond.

MARRIAGE: JULIAN GOoD and Wendy Schornstein
on May 31, 1981, in New Orleans. Good is the
merchandising coordinator for Wembley Industries,
Inc.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Mark L. DICKEN, a daughter,
Virginia Elizabeth, on Aug. 14, 1981, in Indiana-
polis, Ind.

TRAVIS Bass is working for Georgia-Pacific in their
mill sales department in Atlanta, Ga. He and his wife,
Laurie, have one son.

CRalIG B. Forry is a first-year law student at Pepper-
dine University in Malibu, Calif.

WILLIAM H. Joost, after discharge from the Army in
June, spent six weeks backpacking on the Appalachian
Trail in Maine and then spent two weeks in Holland.
He is pursuing an M.B.A. degree at the University of
Georgia this fall.

The First National Bank of Atlanta promoted F. RAyY-
MOND MCINTyRzE III to international officer in that
division to deal with correspondent banks in Europe.
He joined First Atlanta in 1979 as a management
associate. McIntyre and his wife, Ashley, live in
northwest Atlanta.

LEE W. Muse Jr. is a representative for Moore
Business Forms, Inc., of Towson, Md. He expects to
pursue an M.B.A. at Loyola College in the fall.

CARLOS A. PENICHE is a captain in the Judge Advocate
General’s office at Fort Bliss, Texas. He graduated
from law school at the University of Richmond in
May 1981.

RICHARD C. TAYLOR is in his second year of law
school at Mercer University in Macon, Ga.

STEVEN C. YEAKEL is currently the director of or-
ganization for the Republican Party of Virginia, with
headquarters in Richmond. Yeakel is responsible for
the direction of a statewide field staff as well as the
coordinator of a statewide program for legislative
elections.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST (See 1971.)

1979
MARRIAGE: Puicie L. HINERMAN and Elizabeth
Lewis on Aug. 22, 1981. Classmates in the wedding
were John T. Jessee and A. Peter Gregory. They live
in Richmond, where Hinerman is an associate in the
firm of McGuire, Woods and Battle.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES K. LADKy, a daughter,
Caroline Kelly, on May 28, 1981. Ladky is with
F. W. Ladky Associates of Milwaukee, Wis., a steel
and metal specialties firm.

JONATHAN W. PINE JR., recently became an associate
editor with the Williams and Wilkins Co., a medical
publishing company in Baltimore.

1980
MARRIAGE: ROBERT J. BERGHEL JR. and Victoria
A. Smouse on Feb. 1, 1981. After working a year for
Grady Management in Silver Spring, Md., Berghel is
now a full-time M.B.A. candidate at George Wash-
ington University. They live in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM FRAZIER HILL and Charlotte
Lau Rue Helm on Aug. 15, 1981, in Salem, Va.
Victor W. Shepherd, ’80, was best man. They live in
Charlottesville where Hill is a law student at the
University of Virginia.

 

 

A limited number of past issues of The Calyx are available to
alumni on a first-come, first-serve basis. These yearbooks
make welcome gifts; or you may need one to fill a gap in your
collection. Yearbooks are available for the years: 1947,
1953, 1954, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1960, 1961, 1965, 1966,
1972, 1973, 1977, 1979, 1980, 1981. Act now. Send in-
quiries to The Calyx, Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, Virginia 24450.

PAST YEARBOOKS AVAILABLE

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD K. WELSH, a
daughter, Sarah Jonita, on July 23, 1981 in Fresno,
Calif. Welsh is engaged in the general civil practice
of law, with an emphasis on business litigation, for
the Bakersfield law firm of Rudnick and Arrache.

EDWARD H. BROWN has become an associate in the
law firm of Walsh, Case, Coale, Brown and Burke in
Chicago.

DouG-as C. Dorsey is working with the Connecticut
Trust for Historic Preservation in New Haven. He
had been employed in the admissions office at Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College.

E. HUBBARD KENNAaDy III, a second-year student at
St. Mary’s School of Law in San Antonio, has been
invited to write for the St. Mary’s Law Journal and
was elected an honor court justice. During the summer
he completed a clinical internship with Federal Ma-
gistrate Judge Dan Naranjo of the Western District of
Texas.

HARRY WRIGHT is on the staff of the Inter-Varsity
Christian Fellowship in Chattanooga, Tenn.

1981

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SHAWN PATRICK GEORGE, a
son, Shawn Patrick Jr., on July 12, 1981. George is
associated with the Charleston, W.Va., law firm of
Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Farrell.

STEPHEN M. PIPER is associated with the Roanoke
law firm of Wetherington, Flippin, Melchionna and
Burton.

EDWARD F. Tay Lor is a marketing specialist for
Storer Cable Communications, Inc., in Miami. He
lives in Miami Beach.

 

In Memoriam

 

1912

OTHO SHUFORD of Memphis,Tenn., a public ac-
countant for James A. Matthews & Co. for 43 years,
died Sept. 9, 1981. Interment was at Batesville, Miss.
Shuford was a veteran of World War I, a Shriner and
a lifetime member of DeSoto Masonic Lodge.

1916

ECHOL SPEINA MARSHALL, a retired executive from
the Continental Can Co., died Aug. 11, 1981. Mar-
shall had been in the tin can manufacturing business
for 27 years and had worked for Continental Can Co..,
Virginia Can Co., and the U.S. Can Co.

1917

HORNER CHARLES FISHER died on July 14, 1981, in
Cocoa, Fla. He retired in June 1974 as senior member
of the firm of Fisher, Prior, Pruitt and Schulle. He

received his LL.B. degree from Harvard University
and, after practicing law in Iowa for a year, he spent
the next 50 years in Florida. He served in World War
I and was assistant regional director of civil defense
for seven southeastern states in World War II. Fisher
served as president and vice president of the Palm
Beach County Bar Association and later was president
of the Florida Bar Association. He also had been
president of the Palm Beach Civic Music Association.
He was a member of Palm Beach Post 12 of the
American Legion.

Roy DUNCAN MCMILLAN, who retired in 1962 from
a retail furniture store in Paris, Texas, died Sept. 23,
1981. After World War I, McMillan became an agent
for Union Central Life Insurance Co. and continued
with that firm until 1933. He then became an admini-
strative assistant in the cotton division of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture and resigned from that
position in 1944 to enter the furniture business. He
also engaged in farming and ranching.

1920

CHARLES DwiGHT McCaBE died at his home in La-
Jolla, Calif., on Aug. 7, 1981. During World War I
McCabe volunteered for the Army Air Service. He
was trained as a bomber pilot and was selected for the
first strategic bombing command. Following the
Armistice, McCabe sailed on the Great Lakes and on
ocean-going freighters. For 10 years he worked in the
family grain business in Winnipeg, Canada. Later, in
the early 1930s, McCabe joined and eventually head-
ed an independent oil exploration company in Abi-
lene, Texas. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor,
McCabe volunteered again for military service. He
served in Europe with the 8th Air Force and an Allied
Airborne unit. After the war McCabe joined the Civil
Aeronautics Administration and worked there until
his recall to militrary service during the Korean War.
He later was designated chief of transportation for
construction of all radar warning installations in the
Arctic region. McCabe retired from government
service 15 years ago and traveled extensively.

1922

VERBON E. Kemp, who headed the Virginia State
Chamber of Commerce from 1938 until 1964, died
Sept. 15, 1981, in Richmond, Va. Kemp also served
as international director for the Christian Children’s
Fund after leaving the state chamber. During the
1920s he worked for Washington and Lee, first as
field secretary and later as alumni secretary and
assistant to the president. In 1929, he became execu-
tive secretary of the Charlottesville and Albermarle
County Chamber of Commerce. Six years later he
became general secretary for the Virginia State
Chamber, and moved up to executive director in
1938. He also served for many years as publisher of
Commonwealth magazine. Kemp was a former
president and member of the National Association of
State Chambers of Commerce; a former member of
the Virginia State Planning Board, the Advisory
Council on the Virginia Economy, the American,
Southern and Virginia Associations of Commercial

35

In Memoriam

Organization Executives; and a former trustee of the
Jamestown Corporation.

1924

JAMES SCOTT LACKEY, a retired attorney in Rich-
mond, Ky., died June 26, 1981.

GEORGE STITYEL MERCKE, a retired former vice
president of Jefferson Wood Working Co. of Louis-
ville, Ky., died Sept. 2, 1981. He joined Jefferson
Wood Working in 1924. He was transferred to High
Point, N.C., for five years, but returned to the Louis-
ville office in 1933 and remained there until his
death.

1925

PERRY DYER HUNTER, president of R. C. Hunter
Insurance and Real Estate Agency in Johnson City,
Tenn., died March 18, 1981.

WILLIAM T. Ray Sr. chairman of the board emeritus,
of the Bank of Putnam County in Monterey, Tenn.,
died Sept. 7, 1981. Ray was a member of a pioneer
family of Putnam County and was a former member
of the development association board of the Univer-
sity of Tennessee. He was also active in many civic
affairs. Ray owned and operated a coal mining com-
pany in Putnam County for many years.

1927

FRANK DEAVER CHARLTON, a retired pastor of St.
Paul United Methodist Church in Abilene, Texas,
died Aug. 30, 1981. He was a trustee of McMurray
College of Abilene and had been a pastor in the
district of McAllen and Austin for over 45 years. He
retired in 1974.

ROBERT TAYLOR JR., whose 43-year career with the
Pittsburgh Press ran the gamut from general assign-
ment reporter to political correspondent to chief edi-
torial writer, died Aug. 22, 1981. Taylor had moved
to Wickliffe, Ohio, over two years ago. Before join-
ing the Press, Taylor had worked for the old Pitts-
burgh Post, Post-Gazette and the Associated Press.
He served from 1935 to 1943 as chief of the Press
Harrisburg Bureau and from 1943 to 1948 as Wash-
ington correspondent. Taylor then returned to Pitts-
burgh as an editorial writer, became chief editorial
writer and, at the time of his retirement, editor of the
editorial page. Taylor was a member of the National
Press Club.

Norton LaBaTT WispoM of New Orleans, La.,
special attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice
from 1936-70, died Sept. 9, 1981. During his career
with the department, he was responsible for matters
relating to land acquisitions by the federal government
in Louisiana, either by direct purchase or by eminent
domain. Wisdom served in the Navy during World
War II, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander.
He continued in the Naval Reserve and rose to the
rank of commander before his retirement. He was
engaged in the private practice of law from 1930-36
when he was appointed as special attorney to the
lands division, Department of Justice.

36

1934

CaRYL OLIN BROWNELL, an attorney in Goodyear,
Ariz., died Aug. 12, 1981.

1936

BEN A. THIRKIELD, a former journalist and retired
Foreign Service officer who had lived in Washington
and Alexandria, Va., before moving to Putney, Vt. in
1977, died Aug. 20, 1981, in Bellows, Vt. Thirkield
joined the Foreign Service in 1948 and was a public
information and press officer in South Africa, Fin-
land, Burma and Nigeria. He was stationed in Wash-
ington, D.C., as a press officer from 1958 to 1961,
and spent his last 10 years with the State Department
as a watch officer before retiring in 1973. He worked
for the Washington Post as a copy editor in the late
1930s and again in the mid-1940s before joining U.S.
News & World Report in 1947. He served with the
Navy in the Pacific during World War II and was
awarded the Bronze Star and Silver Star medals.

CARYL OLIN BROWNELL (See Obituary 1934.)

1937

GEORGE RATHER JONES, a retired airline pilot with
Braniff International, Inc., died Sept. 21, 1981. Jones
began with Braniff in 1942 and retired in 1976. He
was chairman of the board of adjustment of the town
of Highland Park, Texas, and was a member of the
town council. Between 1938 and 1942 Jones was in
the securities business.

WILLIAM ROLAND MILLER JR., retired president of
Miller Enterprises, Inc., died July 24, 1981, in Nor-

yk Dh Ww (A a nie
aie est a Me
TASH j wD ; 0 a Pan, |
Op 4 he haAliix : . a RON
ag LT OM cag ANTS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drawing by Preston Lewis, ’85

folk, Va. Miller was a sailing enthusiast and, in 1934,
was a moth class champion. He commanded Landing
Craft Infantry Division 25 of the Pacific Theater
Amphibious Forces during World War II. Miller En-
terprises, Inc., is a business management firm which
he began in 1948.

1938

CHESTER DELACY PALMER JR., a retired advertising
executive, died Sept. 23, 1981, as the result of an
automobile accident near his home in St. George
Island, East Point, Fla. Palmer was a former resident
of Roanoke, Va., where he was the advertising
executive for Norfolk & Western Railway. He served
as a correspondent during World War II. His adver-
tising experience also included a position as advertis-
ing manager with Johnson Outboard Marines for 13
years, and Boston Whaler Boat Mfg. Co. for 7 years.

1942

HORACE JACKSON Cary III, who was president of the
Cary Land & Cattle Co., in Kearney, Neb., died July
24, 1981. He was state chairman for the committee
for action on rural taxation and a member of the
American Cattlemen’s Association. During World
War II he served with the Navy and was attached to
the third fleet.

JOHN ALDEN Empry JR., a prominent and long-time
practicing lawyer in Houston, Texas, died Sept. 13,
1981. He was admitted to practice law in 1947.
Embry was a member of the State Bar of Texas,
Houston Bar Association, and the American Bar
Association. He was an officer and pilot in World
War II, serving with the Eighth Air Force. He received
several decorations including the Distinguished Flying
Cross.

1954

RICHARD ARTMAN HARTLEY, former vice president
in the trust department of the American Bank and
Trust Co. of Pennsylvania in Reading, died Aug. 19,
1981. He had formerly been vice president and direc-
tor of marketing for Equity Products & Services for
the Philadelphia Life Insurance Co.

1959

SCHUYLER Woop GILLESPIE JR., of Greenwich,
Conn., died Sept. 3, 1981. He was a pilot with Pan
American World Airlines. Before Gillespie became a
pilot he was a purchasing agent for the Stamford
Rubber Supply Company. He was a former member
of the Stamford Rotary Club, a director of the Stam-
ford Radio Station, WSTC, and president of M & G
Associates, Inc., of Greenwich.

1978

MILLER WILLIAMS KENNEDY, of Silverhill, Ala.,
died on Sept. 9, 1981. He was district manager for
Royal Cup Coffee, Inc., of Mobile and a member of
the Rugby Club and Athelstan Club. Kennedy was a
native of Birmingham.

 

 

THE W&L ALUMNI COLLEGE

introducing a new summer program at Washington and Lee
for alumni and their families
June 27 thru July 3, 1982

A vacation learning experience with W&L faculty:
Sidney Coulling, Gary Dobbs, John Handelman,
Leonard Jarrard, William Jenks, and guests

A series of readings, lectures, and discussions on
‘‘Changing Views in Changing Times’’
literature and art, science, ethics, economics, politics

Educational and recreational outings at
Monticello, Goshen Pass, Skylark

golf, swimming, hiking, tennis, racketball, squash, handball
a Supervised junior program

 

Watch for further details

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY At Lexington, Virginia 24450

And Additional Mailing Offices
(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450

OF

 

©

wn
wn
/
™
co

x

>

°

a

J

ao

© x

-2e

_o>

wna

me IZ

zac

ieee

oOo =r”

SH

The 1980 Euan

Alumni Directory...
Order Yours Now

 

The new up-to-date computerized Washington and Lee Alumni Directory, 1749-1980, is
now available at only $10.00 per copy, including postage.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since 1749 is listed alphabetically,
together with his class, his degree, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, including degree holders and non-
graduates, appears in this section. :

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by cities within the states and by
foreign country if they live abroad.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be without this valuable reference book in
his home or office. Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me ___copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee Alumni Directory at $10.00 each,
including postage. Check is enclosed.

Name Class
Please Print

Address

 

City, State, Zip

 

 

 

 

