 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 57, Number 1, January 1982

William ©. Washoum, 40... : 1. 23 es ee Editor
Romultis T. Weatherman ......... Managing Editor
Jefleiy-G@, Mamma 22 ee Associate Editor
Rove? tie. 2... ee ee, Contributing Editor
levee Gat: . se. ee Editorial Assistant
W Pateeeriine ss 732. ee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Development Program Succeeds .......-.---- 1
Weber Siewar A Piotile... 1.3: eee nae: 4
Philip Booth, Opera Star .......---++---es- 7
ieee ge ee ee ees 10
‘Two Stmuner Programs ©. . 2. oa. 8 ee 2 eg 12
Tom Stoppard, An Interview ........-.. 2 14
ries (ie Gap. os ee ee 16
ee ee ge i ee ee 18
Fall Sporis Roundup ..........+.2+5-s20:-% 25
Boden Gl... re ee ee ee 28
Cie 8 3
Cig Nas ee es a ee 33
ln Wenig ee 39

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 751, Nashville, Tenn.
President

JOHN H. McCorMack Jr., 750, Jacksonville, Fla.
Vice President

W. DONALD BalIN, ’49, Spartanburg, S.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.

OwEN H. Harper, 759, Pasadena, Calif.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.

SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio

G. RuSsELL Lapp, ’57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
J. WILLIAM McCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.

WILLIAM C. NorMaN Jr., 756, Crossett, Ark.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.

CU

v

ON THE COVER: A light snow caressed the Washington
and Lee campus a few days before Christmas, and W.
Patrick Hinely, ’73, University photographer, who has an
unfailing eye for exceptional scenes at W&L, recorded
this memorable view of the Omicron Delta Kappa circle.

 

 

 

 

Development Program Success

A Promise Is Kept As 10-Year Fund-Raising Effort Exceeds Its Goal by $5 Million

ASHINGTON AND LEE has successfully completed
its 10-year development program by raising $67 million, there-
by surpassing the $62-million goal set for last December 31.

The Washington and Lee program is the largest successful
effort by a college or university of its size. (Washington and
Lee’s current enrollment is 1,650, and the University has
16,000 living alumni.)

The enormous success of the program was due, in large
measure, to the exceptional performance of the fund-raising
effort in the final stages. In December alone, the University
received $3.6 million in new gifts.

President Robert E. R. Huntley made the announcement
at Founders’ Day ceremonies on January 19.

‘“‘The astounding success of the program is a mark of the
vitality of this old school and an unmistakable sign of the
loyalty and generosity of those who love her,” Huntley said.
“The largest factor in our achievement has been the extra-
ordinary role of our Board of Trustees, which throughout
the years has never flagged in its generous example and its
committed leadership.

‘We who serve here on the campus can properly regard
the achievement as a mandate for continued pursuit of the
ideals of liberal education at Washington and Lee. We can-
not regard our University as secure, but we can regard it as
strong enough to approach the future boldly and unafraid.”

The $67 million in gifts represents $22.8 million in
endowment resources, $30.8 million for construction of
new facilities and renovation of existing facilities, and
$13.4 million committed over the 10 years through the
University’s annual giving programs and by other
unrestricted gifts. ye

N ADDITION to the $67 million raised during the
development program, the University received an unrestricted
bequest of approximately $12 million from the estate of the
late John Lee Pratt of Fredericksburg, Va., in January 1976.
In accordance with the provisions of that bequest, the Pratt
gift is being used by the University to improve salaries and
student scholarship programs. It has played, and will continue
to play, a vital role in allowing the University to confront the
eroding effects of inflation.

Washington and Lee’s 10-year fund-raising program was led
by the rectors of the University’s Board of Trustees between
1972 and the present: John Newton Thomas of Richmond,

Va. (1970-74), the late Ross L. Malone (1974), E. Marshall
Nuckols Jr. of Weston, Vt. (1974-1981), and James M.
Ballengee of Philadelphia, Pa. (1981-present).

Joining the rectors with responsibility for planning and
executing the overall program were the chairmen of the Board
of Trustees’ Development Committee: John M. Stemmons of

‘Dallas, Tex. (1972-1977), John L. Crist Jr. of Charlotte, N.C.

(1977), and S L Kopald of Memphis, Tenn. (1978-present).
In addition, the University relied heavily on the leadership of
two volunteer organizations, the 60-member Achievement
Council and the 64-member Development Council, during
the program.

Through the development program, the University has more
than doubled the size of its 1972 endowment in strict mone-
tary figures. In 1972 when the program was announced, the
endowment stood at roughly $22 million; commitments for
new endowment total $22.8 million.

General endowment income is used primarily for faculty
salaries and student services. The student-aid endowment
provides virtually all the financial assistance for approxi-
mately 26 percent of the W&L student body.

“The improvement in our endowment was absolutely
essential, and we have done no more than the minimum
required to bring us into the eighties,’ said Huntley.

 

Warner Center, new gymnasium

 

S A RESULT of endowment gifts added through the
development program, the University has been able to create
72 endowed scholarships, six endowed professorships, three -
endowed teaching funds, and numerous memorial endowments
in support of particular academic activities. Additionally, the
10-year program saw endowments created for the following
programs: the Frances A. Lewis Law Center for studies in legal
issues; the University’s innovative program, ““Society and the
Professions,” in applied ethics for pre-professional students in
law, medicine, and journalism; and, a center for the display
and study of historic porcelain and painting.

When the University’s Board of Trustees announced the
program in 1972, it made the annual giving programs an inte-
gral part of the overall effort to recognize the indispensability
of that aspect of the University’s financing and to give every
alumnus and every parent of a student the opportunity to
participate in the historic undertaking on a yearly basis.

Washington and Lee depends on annual giving for approxi-
mately 11 percent of its educational and general operating
budget.

“The excellent growth of our annual giving programs is in
many ways the most heartening aspect of the success,”’
Huntley said. “This growth outstripped our predictions in
every way, giving good evidence of the broad base of the
University’s support.”’

A projection of $8.2 million was set for annual giving
between 1971-72 and the end of 1981. The annual giving pro-
gram and other forms of unrestricted current gifts exceeded
that goal by $5.2 million. Included in the $13.4 million
annual-gift total is $1.5 million from business and industry
through the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges.
The remarkable performance in annual giving has enabled
Washington and Lee to balance its budget each year over the
period during which inflation and an erratic stock market pre-
sented unusually difficult financial realities.

HEN THE development program was announced in

1972, anew $3.2 million addition to the University’s Doremus
Gymnasium had just been completed and represented the first
fund-raising objective included in the comprehensive program.

Since 1972, the following projects (in addition to the gym-
nasium) have been physically completed and entirely funded
from gifts made as part of the development program: Lewis
Hall, the ultramodern law school building constructed at a cost
of $8 million; the new University Library, a 130,000-square-
foot facility designed to hold 500,000 volumes and built at a
cost of $9.2 million; the Commerce School, a $3.2-million
project to remodel the former library building to become the
home of the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics;
the $1.5-million renovation of Tucker and Newcomb Halls on
the University’s historic Colonnade; restoration of the Lee
Jackson House at a cost of $500,000; and, extensive develop-
ment of the campus grounds including a plaza area on the back

2

campus, a new drainage system on the front campus, improved
campus lighting, two new athletic fields, eight all-weather
tennis courts, new roadways and parking, and a new heating-
cooling plant, at a combined cost of $5 million.

‘“‘We need apologize to no one for the quality of our
physical plant,” said Huntley. “‘It is, quite simply, first rate,
in the same category as the quality of the education we seek
to offer.”

During the course of the development program, three other
major projects have been undertaken but not financed by gifts
made to the development program: new apartment-like dormi-
tories for students, the Woods Creek Apartments; interior
reconstruction of Graham-Lees freshman dormitory; and, a
modernized kitchen for Evans Dining Hall.

Two other facilities which were not among the formal
objectives of the development program and therefore not
included monetarily in the results of the effort are the Skylark
Farm Conference Center on the Blue Ridge Parkway, a gift
from Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek Jr. of Richmond, Va., and
30 University Place, a center for the decorative arts which is
the result of an anonymous gift.

HE LARGEST single capital gift given to the develop-
ment program was from Frances and Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond, Va., who contributed $9 million for the law school
building and later gave the University an additional $1.5 mil-
lion for other capital purposes.

 

 

School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics

New University Library

 

 

——

 

 

 

Other gifts of more than $1 million came from:

— The late Mrs. Miriam Caperton McClure of New Orleans,
who left an unrestricted bequest of more than $4.2 million to
Washington and Lee, the college both her husband and father
attended. Mrs. McClure’s gift is recognized in the University
Library;

— Jonathan Westervelt (Jack) Warner of Tuscaloosa, Ala.,

a 1941 W&L graduate and long-time member of the Board of
Trustees, whose gifts have totaled $2.3 million to date and for
whom the Warner Center (gymnasium) is named;

— Miss Ruth Parmly of New York City, who has given
$2 million to the University in memory of her father, the late
Professor Charles Howard Parmly, founder of the engineering
department at City College of New York and for whom W&L’s
physics-engineering-biology building is named;

— The late Richard E. Gooch, a business executive of
Lynchburg and Lexington and 1930 graduate who bequeathed
more than $1.6 million to the University. His bequest is recog-
nized in the department of journalism and communications;

— The late Wilbur C. Hall of Leesburg, Va., a 1915 law
alumnus who distinguished himself for more than 50 years as
a Virginia statesman and lawyer and who gave approximately
$1.5 million to his alma mater. The library in the law school is
named for Hall;

— F. Fox Benton Jr. of Houston, Tex., a 1960 graduate and
member of the Board of Trustees who has given Washington
and Lee a named $1.2-million endowment fund;

— The late Egbert B. Doggett, Class of 1914, who
bequeathed Washington and Lee $1.1 million to establish an
endowed scholarship program in his name.

 

 

Stemmons Plaza and Chenery Bridge, the new back campus

 

IFTS OF between $500,000 and $999,999 came
from:

— Edgar A. Basse Jr., Class of 1939, whose gift is recog-
nized in the new University Library;

— The late Christopher T. Chenery, Class of 1909, whose
gift is recognized in the new University Library;

— Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Brown, Class of 1949, of Dallas,
Tex., whose gift established the Robert G. Brown Professor-
ship.

— Dr. A. A. Houser, Class of 1909, of Natural Bridge
Station, Va., whose gift established the A. A. Houser—Robert
E, Lee Endowment;

— The William R. Kenan Jr., Charitable Trust of New York
City, whose gift established the William R. Kenan Jr.
Professorship;

— The Kresge Foundation of Troy, Mich., whose two grants
helped make possible the new University Library and the new
home for the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics;

— The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation of Pittsburgh, Pa.,
whose grants helped make possible the new University Library
and important progress in faculty development;

— The late David D. Johnson, Classes of 1921 and 1923
(law), who left the major portion of his estate for the general
purposes of the development program;

— The late Paul D. Pickens, Class of 1917, whose bequest to
the University has assisted in the growth of the student aid
program and the general curricular service;

— Best Products Company Foundation of Richmond, Va.,
whose gift created an honor scholarship fund with recipients
to be identified as Best Scholars;

— The late Charlotte R. Flint, whose bequest provided
assistance to the University in the early stages of the develop-
ment program and is recognized in the University Library;

— Two other gifts in this category were made anonymously.

N ADDITION, Washington and Lee received 72 gifts
ranging from $100,000 to $499,999; 48 ranging from $50,000 ~
to $99,999; 92 ranging from $25,000 to $49,999; and, 213
ranging from $10,000 to $24,999.

An analysis of the constituency sources of gifts shows that
$44.9 million (67 percent) came from alumni; $12.4 million
(18.5 percent) from friends of the University; $5.7 million
(8.5 percent) from foundations; $3.8 million (5.7 percent)
from corporations; and, $0.2 million (0.3 percent) from Wash-
ington and Lee’s faculty and staff.

Washington and Lee conducted two separate phases of its
overall program. |

The first phase was announced on the anniversary of
George Washington’s birthday in 1972. It was a $36-million
effort and was completed on schedule in 1976, surpassing its
goal by $1.5 million.

The second phase, announced in October 1978, was a $26-
million effort. That phase was completed on December 31,
1981, with gifts of $3.5 million over the goal.

by Robert Fure

Rob Stewart

The Composer Composed: For 27 Years a Campus Institution of New Music

It is said that, as one ages, one’s ears
continue to grow. From the back, attired in
tux and conducting with rhythmic strokes of
his baton, his head bowed to the music
before him, Robert Stewart at 63 seems
all ears. For the music teacher, well-
developed ears can be an occupational
hazard, for the qualities required of his
profession seem almost impossibly at odds.
He must possess a sensitivity alive to the
subtlest nuances of sound and, with that, the
patience to endure the frequent failure of
students to realize them. The ears must open
and close.

With a quiet flourish of his baton,
Stewart moves his 18-member brass
ensemble towards another section of
Divertissement, a piece he composed after a
long bus trip with the group in 1979. The
instruments flash as they rise and fall in the
hands of the players. Indeed, there is a
certain uncontrollable brilliance in the brass
at several moments of the performance.
Stewart nods and brings the piece to a close.
The audience erupts in applause. The
conductor bows and then gestures to the
ensemble. They rise together. Everyone is
happy. ?

Weeks of rehearsal, then performance,
applause, and relief: the pattern has been
more or less the same since 1954, the year
Stewart arrived in Lexington. That year, the
old W&L ROTC band was breaking up.
Stewart gathered some of the disappointed
brass musicians and a couple of
percussionists into a brass ensemble. Under
his tireless, inspired direction, students have
been rising up and through the group ever
since.

Rob Stewart remembers them all, twenty-
seven years of Brass Ensemble, almost as
many with the Glee Club and various
orchestras, in addition to the myriad music
courses he has taught at W&L. Actually, his
career aS music teacher began another 27
years before his arrival here. As a nine-year-
old growing up in Chicago, he used to give
violin lessons to his friends at 50¢ an hour.
Even then, however, his burning ambition
was to compose. While still a boy, he
learned all the instruments, not with any
intention of finding one that he could master,
but with a simple desire to learn what they

4

Robert Stewart: ‘‘I’m not going to cop out. I want to continue exploring new possibilities.’

*“felt like.’’

After graduating from high school,
Stewart went on to three Master of Music
degrees in music education, violin, and
composition at the American Conservatory in
Chicago. Later, after leaving the

 

 

,

Conservatory and working as a professional
violinist for ‘‘everything from radio shows to
weddings and funerals,’’ Stewart began to
realize that he was losing touch with his own
music. Seeking more time to write, he
decided to follow his own natural inclination

 

 

toward teaching. After a brief and somewhat
bewildering year as instructor at a small
teachers college in Arkansas—where, in the
tradition of Thoreau, he got into trouble for
refusing to pay his poll tax—Stewart applied
for an opening at Washington and Lee.

At the time, the W&L job was a
particularly challenging one. During an era
of curricular expansion, Stewart was hired as
the new music department. Undaunted,
Stewart saw it as a marvelous opportunity to
teach an entire community (“‘doctors,
lawyers, and businessmen and thieves’’) some-
thing about music. It would not be a “‘music
appreciation’’ curriculum that he would
develop—he doesn’t like the term—but
courses that would ‘‘create musical
experiences through listening and
participation.’”’

Student participation has always been
central to Stewart’s teaching philosophy. In
the two-year music theory and composition
course, for example, he has students develop
musical compositions throughout their
education in various theories. He begins with
the rudimentary: “‘I let them write any sound
they want to, and then I work from wherever
they are in their ear sense. Eventually, they
come to understand the theory. In the
meantime, their musical imaginations are
stimulated as well.’’

Nearly all of his courses have come from
the expressed interests of his students. The
pedagogical principle of shared ‘‘musical
experiences’’ has remained the same
throughout his career at W&L. Well versed
in all areas of music, Stewart moves with the
student’s impulse to explore in directed
studies whatever field of instrumentation or
composition the student desires. ‘‘Of course,
a lot of beginning students still need to be
shown that there is another world of music
that can be meaningful. The satisfaction in
teaching such students often comes, say 10
years later when one writes to you after
attending a concert in Stuttgart.”

In teaching, Rob Stewart has indeed been
able to find more time to work on his
own material, to follow a line of composition
that began, somewhat controversially,
between assignments at the conservative
American Conservatory in Chicago. Back
then, Stewart and a few of his friends

Twenty-seven years of Brass Ensemble . .

became curious about a new system of
music, first developed by Arnold Schonberg,
called serial, or 12-tone, composition.

‘*T remember a decrepit old teacher who
taught for a short time at the Conservatory.
He wasn’t very popular with his colleagues.
He had been a student of Schonberg’s. He
would let us come over to his house and
listen to recordings of Schonberg and two
other prominent serial composers, Alban
Berg and Anton Webern. I was tremendously
excited by it and began almost immediately
composing serial music for my friends.”’

What is serial music? It differs from
traditional music primarily in its
employment, with equal value, of all 12
tones in a musical scale. No one tone, such
as C major, becomes a predominating key to
the composition. Instead, a composer sets up
a pattern of pitches (called a “‘tone row’’)
that becomes the tonal structure of the piece.
As the piece develops, the pattern may be
inverted or retrograded, but no one tone can
be repeated until all of the 12 tones have

been sounded. The composition develops its

expressive potential through variations in the
pattern, octave, color, rhythm, and destiny—
any number of tones, for example, may be
lumped together into a single chord.

The result is a kind of cacophany that
makes the musically timid tear for the exit at
concert halls. The music is atonal, but it is as

. ‘tireless, inspired direction’

     

—

’

insistently mathematical as Bach. Although
serialism explores dissonance by abandoning
traditional conventions of harmony, rhythm,
melody, and tonality, it does so by adhering
to strict rules—after all, one can’t really get
to know new territory without measuring it.
By following the tone row, then, the serialist
discovers new posibilities in music. Stewart
enthuses, ‘‘Wonderful new sounds have been
discovered, sounds that wouldn’t have
occurred if composers hadn’t gone through
serialist experimentation. ’’

Stewart classifies himself as a post-
serialist. Post-serial composition allows for
greater permutations in the 12-tone row by
breaking the row into three four-note sets and
then providing a broader range of variation
within each set. ‘‘Am I losing you?’’ The
composer walks over to a piano.

‘*Here.’’ Strange, wonderful new sounds
begin occurring as Stewart’s hands range
over the keyboard. The old schoolroom
piano becomes an instrument of the avant-
garde. Stewart’s assiduous concentration
becomes vaguely comical—how does such
chaos require such exacting attention? A few
more banging notes, a chord, a soft, tentative
minor, and then—was that the end? ““Well,
yes.’’ He points to the last note in the
composition and plays it again.

Serialism is no longer the mainstream of
new musical composition. Stewart laments

 

The Composer Composed

 

>”,

then I elaborate.

the return in contemporary music to romantic
traditions, a main convention of which is
reference to something external to music
itself: a storm, the woods in spring, an
historical event, etc. Stewart’s music
continues in the mode of a musical abstract
expressionism, exploring sounds not only for
their own sake but for their inherent
emotional coloration as well.

‘*T still do abstract music because I feel it
can communicate. I’ve always felt that music
is the expression of human feeling. Post-
serialism allows me the freedom to be more
expressive, more emotional. In fact, my
music is getting more expressive all the
time.”’

A heavy smoker, Stewart pauses to light
another cigarette. ‘“A lot of what’s being
done today is retrogressive, a return to
romanticism, like in painting. Well, I’m not
going to cop out. I want to continue

6

“I make a statement at the beginning about what the music is all about and

 

nuances of sound.’’

exploring new possibilities.”’

The old radical of music need not worry
that music has perhaps passed him by.
Stewart’s reputation as a composer is secure.
Commissions for new compositions continue
to arrive each year from performers and
organizations eager to know his new
possibilities. James Avery, the
internationally famed pianist, is waiting for
him to finish Duo for Solo Percussion and
Piano. Stewart’s list of compositions,
recordings, and honors is long—if you give
him half an hour he might be able to find it
(‘‘Now where did I put that?’’). Restless and
endlessly curious, he writes for all
instruments and groupings, from full
orchestras (A Requiem for a Soldier) to solos
(Mystic, a Contrabass Fantasia) and voice
(The Curl, an opera).

Where does it all come from? Each
composition begins with a sound, a feeling. I

: ‘Head bowed to the music before him . .

 

 

may be reading something and think it really
beautiful and work to transfer it into sound. I
remember a phrase from Joyce’s Ulysses, ‘a
heaventree of stars.’ Beautiful. That led to
Four Excerpts from James Joyce’s Ulysses
for A Cappella Chorus.

‘A sound. Three months later I may
think of it again. It evolves with what I feel I
can develop. The original sound is the reason
for its being. So I make a statement at the
beginning about what the music is all about
and then I elaborate. If you get the
beginning, you’re on your way. Just don’t
try to set up what’s next—don’t be bound by
traditional expectations of music.”’

So, again like Thoreau: ‘‘If a man does
not keep pace with his companions, perhaps
it is because he hears a different drummer.
Let him step to the music he hears, however
measured or far away.’’ But first the ears
must open.

 

NEW YORK

For most of his young life, Philip Booth,
°64, was a classic underachiever. An
exceptionally bright but lazy student, he
seemed, due to an unfortunate dreaminess,
unable to concentrate on his studies. His only
compelling interest lay with classical music.
Yet there also the feeling was rather passive.
He did play around a little with the clarinet,
but mainly he was a listener. Music was after
all for dreaming.

After graduating with an undistinguished
record from St. Albans in Washington, D.C.,
Booth arrived at Washington and Lee. He
had scored a perfect 800 in the verbal section
of his college boards yet had never made an
A in an English course. The major Ivy
League schools would have nothing to do
with him. An 800 on his college boards.
Dean Frank Gilliam practically sent a taxi for
him.

Yet at W&L Booth’s academic
achievements remained capricious at best. He
ran afoul of the cut regulations and ‘‘lost’’
three courses. From his first moment on
campus, he seemed to himself the odd man
out. The son of Northern liberal activists, he
felt hopelessly misplaced in what he saw as a
‘*Southern conservative bastion of fraternity
life.’’ It was a condition that seemed to go
with his appearance: an awkwardly tall, fair
young man with a who-am-I-and-what-am-I-
doing-here expression on his face. An early
effort to transfer out failed. Unable to
abandon academics entirely, however, Booth
resigned himself to his circumstances, settled
down to the motions of college life, and,
somewhat sleepily, pledged Pi Kappa Phi.
Then he met Rob Stewart.

In the early sixties, Stewart was still
W&L’s entire music department. Booth had
long been a fan of choral music, having
spent a good part of his youth as a $5-a-

month choir boy at a Washington Episcopal Philip Booth in his New York apartment. Below, the king in Cavalli’ s L’Ormindo: Costumed and flush with a
church. The pay wasn’t as good at W&L, but part, Booth expands to formidable dimensions. ‘‘Bassos must lay the foundations of opera.”’

 

by Robert Fure

Philip Booth
Between the Acts

W&L’s Metropolitan Opera Star Is Rising

Profile of an Alumnus

 

Philip Booth

Booth needed to do something that absorbed
him, so he joined Stewart’s Glee Club. He
recalls that the group’s first performance, of
Bruckner’s *“Te Deum,”’ changed his life.
Booth threw himself into music like nothing
before. ‘‘I became pretty intense about choral
music, probably to the point of being
obnoxious. The Glee Club was all I had, and
I went at it with a vengeance.”’

Booth’s devotion to music complemented
a deepening interest in literature. The rich
harmonic structures and spiritual zeal of
several pieces in the Glee Club’s classical
repertory fired in him a special enthusiasm
for poetry, particularly 17th-century religi-
ous verse. He took every course in the
English department, meanwhile assembling
the largest student collection of classical _
recordings.

Though his career at W&L had finally
achieved an intellectual and emotional focus,
Booth still felt restless and constrained.
‘“Those were years of terrible growing pains.
I failed those 8 a.m. science courses because
I was a victim of my own late-night
procrastinations.’’ The Glee Club served as a
refuge of sorts, and a warm personal
acquaintance with Rob Stewart and the
English department faculty nurtured his
developing interests, but Booth was still
painfully aware of his own shortcomings.

Through years of growing pains, the
typical underachiever broods about his
inability to fly. Booth was no different: ‘‘My
singing voice was heavy and unwieldy. My
work was so structured: my poetry was all
sonnets, my theology systematic, my papers
balanced and rather plodding. Bill Chaplin,
my best friend, was a truly brilliant student.
He could cut straight through to the heart of
anything. He was a man of ideas and I
merely of form.’’

The passion for music and literature
continued nonetheless to animate whatever
form Booth adopted. He became Stewart’s
assistant with the Glee Club, hosting
auditions and helping conduct performances
in his senior year. By his own admission, his
intense musicianship may have repelled some
of his fellow choristers..He was never .
invited, for example, to join the Sazaracs,
W&L’s small pop music chorus. Without
irony, he surmises, ‘‘I guess I wasn’t cool
enough—but about music I was never cool.”’

Even as a student, Booth owned a bass
voice of gorgeous depth and amplitude. But
it remained essentially untrained, for at the
time no one taught voice at W&L. Seeking
some sort of professional future, he turned to
the English department. He thought he might

8

like to be an English professor—one couldn’t
make a living as a singer. In order to prepare
himself for graduate study in English, he
crammed seven literature courses into his
senior year, earning an A in each one. ‘‘The
English faculty were absolutely wonderful.
The two-term seminar on Twain and James
that I took from Severn Duvall that year
remains the most profound intellectual
experience of my life.’’

In the waning moments of his
undergraduate career, Booth made up a few
botched credits here and there, earned
acceptance in the highly selective University
of Rochester graduate program in English
and, to his utter surprise, won the John
Graham Award for distinguished
achievement in fine arts. As long as he didn’t
think about it, he was ready to fly.

Booth’s current biography reads:

Metropolitan Opera basso Philip
Booth has achieved distinguished suc-
cess with major opera companies and
orchestras across the United States. Ever
since his Met debut in Un Ballo in Mas-
chera in 1975, this gifted young singer
has demonstrated his versatility as a fea-
tured artist in Metropolitan Opera pro-
ductions of Otello, Die Meistersinger,
Fidelio, Carmen, Ariadne auf Naxos,
Rigoletto, and Aida. At the New York
City Opera, Booth made his debut in Le
Cog d’Or in 1978. . . . Philip Booth’s
many guest appearances with opera
companies throughout the country in-
clude such notable productions as the
Seattle Opera’s Ring, Sante Fe’s' Eugene
Onegin and Magic Flute, Miami’s Na-
bucco, and Philadelphia’s Rigoletto.
Booth has also had marked success with
the San Francisco Opera in Boris Gudo-
nov (Pimen), with the Cincinnati Opera
in Aida (Ramfis), and with the opera
companies of Baltimore, San Diego,
Portland, Hawaii, and Vancouver
(Canada).

. .. Possessing an extensive oratorio
repertoire, Mr. Booth has performed
with some of the country’s most esteem-
ed conductors, among them: Sir Georg
Solti (Chicago Symphony), Seiji Ozawa
(San Francisco Symphony), Julius Rudel
(Caramoor Festival Orchestra), Louis
Lane and Walter Susskind (Salt Lake
City Oratorio Society). . . . Booth made
his professional debut in the fall of 1971
at the opening of the Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts in Washington,
D.C. He sang the role of the King of
Scotland opposite Beverly Sills in the
American premiere of Handel’s Ario-
dante, directed by Tito Capobianca and
conducted by Julius Rudel.

English graduate study didn’t work out.
Once again he found himself drifting,
‘‘totally at sea.’” And once again he turned
to music for refuge. At the auditions for the
Rochester Oratorio Society, his rendition of
an aria from Bach’s Fourth Cantata, which
he remembered from his W&L Glee Club
days, overwhelmed the director. The Society
immediately welcomed him. In addition, the
director offered him a role as bass soloist in
the Rochester Presbyterian Church Choir.
Booth: ‘‘But I’m an Episcopalian.’’ Director:
‘‘T’ll pay you $10 a week and coach you
free.’’ It wasn’t a living, but it was a start,
indeed the beginning of the distinguished
professional career.

The rest follows rather quickly. The
director of the prestigious Eastman School of
Music heard Booth in concert: ‘‘A voice in a
thousand, and a talent with endless
possibilities,’’ he wrote. Booth was offered a
full scholarship to the Eastman School with
Status as special student, ‘“The first true bass
at Eastman in twenty years.’’ The chairman
of the English department at the U of R
conceded, “‘I think it’s something you’ve got
to do.’’ Booth transferred over in 1965 but
lost his draft deferment since he was no
longer officially a graduate student. Within a
few months, he received ‘‘Greetings’’ from
Uncle Sam. He was allowed to finish the
year at Eastman with the understanding that
he would serve his hitch as a member of the
U.S. Army Chorus.

‘*My four years with the Chorus in
Washington was basic training in several
respects. They were a peerless group of
singers. The roster of Army Chorus alumni
reads like Who’s Who in opera today. I sang
with James Shirley and Richard Stillwell and
took lessons on the side from Todd Duncan.
I also got married.”’

Booth never completed his formal
training in music. In 1970, at the end of his
hitch in the Army, he entered the
Metropolitan Opera Competition. Over
thousands of professionally trained voices in
the national contest, he placed second,
winning the Gramma Fisher Award from the
Met and a large cash award with a full-time
contract from the Kansas City Opera
Company. He didn’t make it to Kansas City.
Julius Rudel, then Director of the New York
City Opera, invited Booth to help him open
the new Kennedy Center in Washington.
Booth sang the major role of King and father
to Beverly Sills’s Ginevra in Handel’s
Ariodante. ‘‘The whole world came. The
reviews were wonderful.’’

Booth spent the next four years with Kurt

 

In Massenet’s Esclarmonde

 

In Mozart’ s Don Giovanni

Adler and the San Francisco Opera
Company, with guest appearances during the
off-season throughout the country and
abroad. In 1975 he became house basso at
the Metropolitan Opera. :

Today, at age 39 Philip Booth is entering
his prime. Bassos mature later than other
voices. Though blessed with one of the
deepest voices in the world, he has needed
years to develop the higher ranges. Now,
nailing each note, he rises comfortably from
a low C, the lowest note in the bass
repertory, to a baritone’s high G flat. He
studies continuously, ‘‘working and working
and working for that fine edge between a
good and a great voice.”’

Booth left the Met last season, intent on
establishing a broader reputation—‘‘ You
cannot be an international singer without
singing internationally.’’ During the past 10
years he has developed a repertory of over a

 

 

In the courtyard of the Met

hundred roles, but at the Met he was held to
comprimario, or supporting, roles while
covering for the major basso parts each
season. True enough, the Met is the center of
the opera world, but Booth wants to move
now towards the center of the center. ‘‘I am
beginning to feel my readiness—vocally,
emotionally, physically, dramatically.’’

He is driven in his music-making,
haunted by a nagging fear of his former
underachievement, determined to realize
fully his own abundant promise. In many
ways he seems the accomplished, mature
version of the young man he was at
Washington and Lee. Still fair and boyish in
appearance, he colors slightly with
enthusiasm when he describes his art. His
eyes widen, ‘‘Yes, I am obsessed still. The
performance must be precisely right. It has
less to do with ego than with an
overwhelming sense of responsibility to
those enduring masterpieces of music that I

am privileged to interpret.’’

To those who knew him in the early
sixties, Booth’s voice must still seem too large
for his frame, despite his 6’6”’ height. It is a
marvelous, deep, resonant sound, Goliath’s
voice. A sound like that should stand eight
feet tall, with a rich, dark beard and ermine
robes. Instead, Booth wears glasses and does
the cooking for his wife and daughter. He
smiles and remembers his teacher Todd
Duncan mocking his ‘‘slender, pissy chest.’’
But costumed and flush with a part, Booth
expands to formidable dimensions. ‘‘Bassos
must lay the foundations of opera.”’

_ ““And yet,’’ he observes, ‘‘the voice
must float on the top of the breath. If you
drive that muscle too hard, you begin to hear
a grinding’’—Booth winces and clenches his
fist—*‘and the voice becomes heavy and
thick. Great singing should be art that
conceals art. You should be unaware of the
incredible energy down below that is
necessary to produce the seamless sound.
The kind of singing that can absolutely melt
you when done right.’’ Booth eases back into
his chair. ‘‘Sutherland and Luciano
[Pavarotti] at their best. Many a singer has
come to grief in trying to fill our enormous
American opera houses with sound. The
breath,’’ he returns again to first principles,
lifting his chin, ‘‘you must keep the voice on
the breath.”’

However elementary, it is perhaps one
lesson he could not have learned at W&L.
No one back then was equipped to teach
‘“the most delicate, most complex, most
beautiful instrument we have, the human
voice.’’ Nonetheless, Booth expresses a
gracious indebtedness to his alma mater. ‘‘I
learned a lot from Rob Stewart and the
others. W&L is my college. I’m a product,
and it has influenced me—I trust for the
better. I must say, I’ve taken a sort of
perverse pride in being a professional artist
from a school that is most known for turning
out doctors, lawyers, and businessmen. I
guess I’ve come to enjoy after all being the
odd man out.’”’

For a man so intent on ascending to the
next great operatic stage of his career, Booth
may seem somewhat out of character when
he reflects on his college. Yet his nostalgia is
warm and convincing. ‘‘I remember a piece |
used to sing at every Glee Club concert. It
was ferociously difficult. I had to sweat and
strain each time I attempted it. More growing
pains.’’ There is a distant, vaguely dreamy
look in his eyes as he recalls the title,
‘‘General William Booth Enters into
Heaven.”’

by Richard W. Oram

Reference and Public Services Librarian

Stage-struck

Collection of Theatrical Memorabilia Amassed by W&L Alumnus Is Exhibited in the Library

Carter N. Bealer in Paris, 1930

Arthur F iedler, long-time conductor of the
Boston Pops

10

 

 

The University Library’s Boatwright Rare
Book Reading Room displayed an unusual
collection of theatrical and musical
autographs this fall. They were originally
assembled by Carter N. Bealer, ’22, a
Washington editor who died in 1965. Bealer
was an indefatigable collector of stamps,
coins, and books on cats, not to mention
more esoteric items such as diaries, hotel
labels, and restaurant menus from ocean
liners. He was, in short, what would now be
called an ‘‘ephemerist’’—a collector of
minor printed matter which may often have
interest to a social historian. His first love,
though, was the theatre, and his passion led
him to collect a wide variety of stage
memorabilia, including prints, photographs,
and over a thousand playbills.

Bealer’s collection of collections arrived
at the University Library about 15 years ago.
Because of the large bulk of his personal
papers, however, the autographs—about 150
of them—received little attention until quite
recently. During the summer, the staff of the
library’s Special Collections department

 

The eminent French tragedian Francois-Joseph
Talma in a classical role. A lithograph from the
Bealer collection.

prepared a complete inventory, and a
selection of letters from the most important
playwrights, actors, and musicians went on
display in September.

Among the most valuable items are
letters from Francois-Joseph Talma, one of
the greatest of French actors; Coquelin the
Elder, the original Cyrano de Bergerac; the
American tragedian Edwin Forrest; and
Forrest’s English rival William Charles
Macready. While some of the letters are in a
prosaic “‘bread and butter’’ vein
(accompanying enclosed theatre tickets, for
example), others provide valuable insights
into the hectic life of a touring 19th-century
player. Professor George Ray of the W&L
English department points out that an Edwin
Forrest letter to his sister mentions 30
upcoming performances on a month-long
tour!

Although letters by Sarah Bernhardt are
by no means uncommon, it is a pleasant
surprise to find four of them in a single
collection, alongside an inscribed cabinet
photograph and several programs showing

fe. aE oe reer SPE. Gant. ee eS

oo pare f fee toe ws Poem dee eee ae A
\

 

the Sn gee rites Peo She a ote © geen ~

oS A, hibernate
nto Pte beow” & ty bat, A

« $ A wey pte ee eee wes a ey . oa ee %
of? * Res Ager 2 Fie Moree en -
a . * < AK 6 beet wy gee? sete
a: ¥ ee er tk a ae LL.
wv oe epee at - : ”~ eee Case. A Ran ay oe > FP tine sae
: £6 eS, PRS c tow le &, Fa “ 7 we Soe
. age SS :
é SS . - cre Bet Pens Hoe eee
5 £ z a ft sf ee :
ce - . 2 “7 : cot oN . St Py
“ ee “- uk weet RET
+ ed fi és so

pac: see EO
: Spe ge

geve ew FE oe Bey ae
eos ant aoe

 

  

s. YS ye cet
pees ee ge OR og
eo tarog® fae Rn Cnet Bom co
Sad Med ; eos
maf 2 oo. seg fey
Seg Roe ee Ee
e : ¢

oe “cere oer wer eee

 

sot seek

fo. oo ge VE Fake

gee
ae TY
‘

ee
£ vey te pe
é

     

*
ofits wegen. a pe, — oe Os

Peet Er fo Mae,

 

Gut fad af See
i : Be ed PSS
ee 4 phe “ oo aoe A ay a 424 we Fi, .
, f 2 Theos - _& feb Fy xe
vw. gies, | <a =

ithe,
BEGG d choos 6S,
Autograph letter from Talma recommending a
young actor; Talma letters are becoming

increasingly scarce.

Helen Hayes in the 1930's

 

SSenaommnanciinn

 

ee HEE

represented.

Photograph of Franz Liszt accompanying an

autographed place card

 
    

‘‘the Divine Sarah’’ in some of her most
famous roles. Another luminary of the turn;
of-the-century stage was Lillie Langtry, the
favorite of the Prince of Wales (later Edward
VII). We have displayed a signed contract
giving Mrs. Langtry a remarkable 70 percent
of the gross for an 1888 engagement in
Philadelphia. Other prominent actresses
represented in the collection include Elisa
Félix (or Rachel), Charlotte Cushman, and
Ellen Terry.

One display case in the Boatwright room
was devoted to autographs and inscribed
photographs of musicians. There are letters
of Sigmund Romberg, Jules Massenet, and a
place card signed by Franz Liszt on one of
his trips to England. Memorabilia of some of
the opera world’s most famous names—
Caruso, Galli-Curci, Ponselle, and Melba—
were also on view. Interestingly, Carter
Bealer apparently acquired some of his
autographs for very modest sums in the
1950’s; today, a collector would require
several thousand dollars to put together a
comparable collection.

 

Souvenir program from J. M. Barrie’ s fantasy play

11

Two Summer Programs for ’&2

One for Alumni and Their Families .

 

New Alumni College

 

‘*Education,’’ said Robert Frost, °“is
hanging around until you’ve caught on.’’
This summer, Washington and Lee will
inaugurate a program dedicated to “‘hanging
around’’ in the best educational sense, the
W&L Alumni College. Reserved for alumni
and their families, the program will offer a
one-week vacation/learning experience to all
those who want to read a few good books,
relax, and renew old ties with the University.

Since early October, five select members
of the W&L faculty have been developing a
vacation program designed to make full use
of the University’s new and renovated
facilities and Lexington’s lovely summer
environment. Under the academic
directorship of Sidney Coulling, chairman of
the English department, Professors Tom
Nye, John Handelman, Leonard Jarrard, and
William Jenks have put together a series of
readings, discussions, and entertainments
focusing on the theme, ““Changing Views in
Changing Times.’’ W&L’s new summer
programs office has selected a staff of camp
counsellors to develop a junior program for
alumni children. The Alumni College session
will run June 27 through July 3.

‘*The theme of the College,’’ says
Coulling, “‘is an attempt to examine some of
the significant changes (social, political,
economic, religious, scientific) of our time,
to understand their causes and consequences,
and to explore ways of coping with the
difficulties and tensions they create. The
topic is thus both broad enough to include a
wide range of concerns, and restricted
enough to focus on several of the most
pressing issues of the eighties.’’

Tom Wolfe, 51, will be the featured
speaker at the College. His bestselling book
The Right Stuff will be one of the texts used
in the program. Other readings will include
Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness,
selections from Lewis Thomas’ The Lives of
a Cell, Frantz Fanon’s The Wretched of the
Earth, and John L. Esposito’s [slam and
Development.

The format of the program will involve a
lecture each morning by one of the Alumni
College faculty on the topic of change from

12

   

 

Sidney oulling, academic director of the
Alumni College

the point of view of the day’s assigned text.
The lecture will be followed by a large group
discussion and then smaller seminar
discussions of issues raised by the book,
particularly as they affect the lives of the
Alumni College participants. Afternoons and
evenings of the six-day session will be given
over to recreational and special interest
activities. The week will offer a broad
variety of amusements, with various tours,
special presentations, a film, a play, a
musical ensemble, and an afternoon at
Skylark, W&L’s superlative Blue Ridge
Mountain retreat, already planned for the
session.

Alumni and their families will reside on
campus in the modern, air-conditioned
Woods Creek Apartments. Jerry Darrell,
W&L’s award-winning director of food
services, 1S preparing a special menu for the
session. Since the program emphasizes an
ongoing communication between participants
and faculty, the Alumni College faculty will
participate in all phases of the program.
Informality will be the rule. ‘“And,’’ adds
Coulling, *‘alumni should be assured that
there will be no assignment of papers, tests,
or grades.”’

Since 1982 will be the first year of the
program, the Alumni College is still

. Reading, Relaxation, and Renewal

somewhat experimental. But, noting the
success of alumni colleges elsewhere, the
faculty believe that the College is founded on
a concept of lifetime learning that has taken
hold across the country. With its new air-
conditioned and comfortably appointed
facilities, Washington and Lee is now ready
to offer a valuable educational service to its
family of former students.

A successful Alumni College will offer
many benefits not only to alumni and their
families, but to faculty and to the University
as a whole. **The Alumni College,”’
Coulling admits, “*‘obviously has certain
practical aims, such as utilizing the physical
plant during the quiet summer months. But it
has higher goals as well. It seeks to give
faculty members the stimulus of a new and
different challenge, to offer to alumni and
their families an opportunity to reflect and
relax in beautiful surroundings, and, most
important, to express in a tangible way the
University’s commitment to the continuing
education of its graduates.’’

 

Summer Scholars ’ 82

 

On a warm July morning, in a classroom
located on the top floor of the newly
refurbished McCormick Hall, Professor John
Swift remarks on the role of the wilderness
in William Faulkner’s The Bear. *“The
woods are God’s creation, as Eden was. The
woods cannot be owned, but they can be
lost. With the death of the bear, the
wilderness vanishes, and man is left again
alone. Once you understand the how and
why of that solitude, you begin to understand
the need for civilization and, thereby,
Faulkner’s final, rather oblique affirmation of
human society.”’

Seated around Swift are 11 of the 31
young men and women enrolled in W&L’s
Summer Scholars ’81. They are bright,
attentive high school students, rising seniors
who, after three weeks of Professor Swift’s
course, ‘‘Writing About Literary Themes,”’
are increasingly adept at literary discussion.
Swift doesn’t hold back—that is, until about
three minutes before the class bell, when a
familiar restlessness begins to spread. After

Another for Rising High School Seniors . . . An Introduction to College Life

class, Swift good-naturedly observes, ‘‘They
seem to be picking up the best and the worst
of college academic habits. But they are
good students, and we seem to be getting a
lot done.’’

By now some of his students have joined
others in Professor John Handelman’s
‘‘Comparative Political Development,”’
where the topic for the day is the impact of
the industrial revolution on agricultural
economies. Other summer scholars have
gone off to courses in Goethe’s Faust, The
Bronze Age World, Organic Evolution, or
Information Technology. Indeed, no one is
sitting still for very long.

Summer Scholars ’81 offered a total of
eight courses from a variety of academic
disciplines to high school students looking to
sample college life. The goal of the four-
week program was ‘“‘to stimulate and extend
the intellectual curiosity of the participants
and to help them dispel any anxieties about
their ability to meet the academic and social
challenges of college.’’ Toward these ends,
Summer Scholars developed a rigorous
introductory-level college curriculum, taught
by W&L faculty, along with a recreational
and social program supervised by the
Summer Scholars athletic and counseling
Staff.

The 31 students enrolled in the program
came from public and private secondary
schools as far apart as Texas and
Connecticut. All of them had high praise for
the program’s objectives, faculty, and
format. ‘‘I’ve had a really interesting four
weeks, and I’ve definitely learned a lot, not
only in my courses but also about people and
other parts of the country,’’ wrote Judith
Geller from Randallstown, Md.

Larry Boyd of Dallas, Texas, testified,
‘‘T think that it was well worth one month of
my summer. The courses I took interested
me, and the people I lived with have become
friends that I think will last forever.”’

All recommended that the program be
continued, half of the students urging an
expansion to a six-week format. They had
become truly ‘‘summer scholars.”’

John F. DeVogt, professor of business
administration and director of the program, is
now designing a curriculum for Summer
Scholars ’82. The program will run from
July 4 through July 30. It will offer 12

 

John DeVogt, academic director Summer Scholars program.

courses, from which students will again
select two.

The principal benefit of the program,
apart from its specific academic content, is
the introduction it provides to college life.
College-bound high school students are
frequently anxious about their own abilities
and the experience that awaits them once
they leave home for their university careers.
‘‘Most of these anxieties are false,’’ claims
DeVogt, ‘‘and they are quickly shed at
Summer Scholars. But if these doubts are
confirmed, how much better it is to
recognize and face them realistically in a
summer program rather than after all the
emotional turmoil and expense of selecting
and enrolling at a particular school.

‘‘The program also gives students a
chance to discover weaknesses in their
academic preparation and study habits. With
a year of secondary education remaining,
many students are able to remedy these
problems before enrolling in college.”’

DeVogt emphasizes, however, the

intellectual excitement of Summer Scholars

itself, and this appears to be the major appeal
of the program for the participants. Students
are able to take courses at the college entry
level, in a college environment, and under a
regular college faculty. The W&L difference,
of course, is the individual attention that
each student receives. Each course is limited

to an enrollment of 12, and many faculty
regularly arrange individual conferences with
the students.

Summer Scholars also receive counseling
on academic majors and on college selection.
William Hartog, director of admissions at
W&L, along with representatives from
various women’s colleges in the area, conducts
a discussion of college application procedures
and the criteria for college selection. It
should be noted that nearly all of the young
men in Summer Scholars ’81 have applied
for admission to W&L.

DeVogt expects that Summer Scholars
"82 will double the enrollment of the 1981
session. *“The response to last summer’s
program from parents, students, and faculty
has been uniformly enthusiastic.’
Increasingly it appears that, though W&L
will continue its normal summer recess, the
campus over the coming years will be a busy
place each summer.

For additional information on these and
other summer programs at W&L, call or
write:

Robert Fure, Director

Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Va. 24450

(703) 463-9111, ext. 290

13

by Brian Shaw

Tom
Stoppard
Is At Home
In Many

Worlds

British Playwright Gives
His Views on Freedom
of Speech, American
Journalism, and Various
Other Topics of Note

14

The following article was written by
Brian Shaw, bureau chief of the Roanoke
Times & World-News’ Shenandoah Bureau.
A version of the article appeared in the
December 5 edition of the Roanoke Times &
World-News and is reprinted here with
permission.

Q: What do you see as the current
trends in contemporary theater?

A: Oh, it’s going to be one of THOSE
interviews.

Tom Stoppard smiled as he answered.
The smile was not at the question, as lame
and awkward as it sounded, but at the idea
that all playwrights are expected to know
such things as current trends in theater.

‘‘T don’t go to the theater that much,’’ he
said, ‘‘but when I go, I go as a play-goer.
The last thing I think about is trends. I don’t
suppose anyone knows.”’

Stoppard was standing in the center of
the parlor of the Lee House on the campus of
Washington and Lee University. He visited
Lexington in early December to present a
lecture on ‘‘The Text and the Event.’’ The
lecture was sponsored by the Glasgow
Endowment Committee, established in 1958
‘‘to promote the art of expression by pen and
tongue.’”’

Although Stoppard, 44, is well-known in

 

this country for such plays as Rosencrantz
and Guildenstern are Dead, Jumpers,
Travesties, and other works, the British
playwright is new to the American university
lecture circuit.

‘“T’ve never done it before,’ he said of
his short visit to a few universities in the
States. ‘‘It has been very pleasant. I am
intrigued by the idea of doing.’’

By this time, Stoppard had settled deep
into a large, leather-covered wing-back chair,
his long legs stretched in front of him. His
fingers, which looked to be six inches long,
fiddled with a cigarette as he spoke.

An interview with Stoppard is like a
meandering conversation. A question on the
political situation in Eastern Europe leads to
a discussion on the differences of British and
American journalism, which, in turn,
becomes a discourse on play writing and the
contributions of directors to a play.

He seems at home in many worlds.

Stoppard’s easy switching of topics may
be related to his past. He was born in
Czechoslovakia and lived in Singapore and
India before settling in England with his
family.

He began a career as a journalist in 1954
with the Western Daily Press in Bristol and
later with the Bristol Evening World. As with
many newspaper journalists, he held a
variety of positions from news reporter,

 

 

feature writer, and theater critic to gossip
columnist and film critic.

He finished his first play, Enter a Free
Man, in 1960, a time, he said, when the
British theater was beginning to receive
international attention.

‘‘I was beginning to want to write
something else’’ (other than journalism), he
said. ‘‘People began to get interested in the
British theater. ”’

He continued as a drama critic for Scene
in 1963, seeing more than 130 plays in seven
months. In 1964, he wrote Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern are Dead, the play that
launched his career.

Since then he has written other plays and
a novel, directed a production of Garson
Kanin’s Born Yesterday and has won various
writing awards. His new play, On the
Razzle, opened last fall at the National
Theatre in London.

Stoppard, who is currently working on a
play, says he stays busy with his writing, but
admits it’s ‘‘a much lazier life’’ than
journalism. He keeps ties with his former
profession by reading as many as four
newspapers each day when he is at home.

Yet, he says, that reading does not
directly influence his writing. He said things
from his reading ‘‘trickle down’’ into his
work, but there is no direct connection
between what he reads and what he writes.

Stoppard admits his exposure to
American newspapers has been limited, but
Says that he does not much like what he has
seen. British newspapers, said Stoppard, are
not as “‘naked’’ about their dependence on
advertising as their American counterparts.

‘‘T pick up The New York Times, and it is
page after page of ads,’’ he said. ‘‘Seven
columns of Bergdorf Goodman and one
column of news.’’

The inherent differences in print
journalism can also be seen in broadcast

journalism, especially television, he said.

‘*American TV journalists are famous for
their crassness throughout the world,’’ he
said. That is a result of being ‘‘keyed into
the ratings.’”’

The British Broadcasting Corporation,
said Stoppard, was ‘‘saved by history,”’
because it is government supported and does
not depend exclusively on commercials for
its existence.

Stoppard’s interest in journalism and free
expression is not limited to newspapers and
television. He has taken an interest in the
suppression of information in countries that
do not have a free press and has lent his
name to an organization called the
Committee for a Free World.

The committee, said Stoppard, is made
up of ‘‘a lot of people who think alike. We
have no East-West, Left-Right ax to grind. Its
concern is with free speech.

‘‘There are an awful lot of people in
trouble and jailed for expressing their
views,’’ he said. ‘“They have been locked up
for what we take for granted.’’

Stoppard called a free press ‘‘the last
bastion, that’s it for a free society.’’ Plays
can also be used as vehicles for expression of
political views and free speech, but Stoppard
thinks the medium is all-suited for such a
role.

‘*Plays are not a particularly good way to
inform,’’ he said. ‘‘Plays take a long time
and are seen by fewer people. Television
plays are different, but they are sandwiched
in between other things and easily
forgotten.’’

Plays, the performance and the text, were
the topic of Stoppard’s lecture in Lee
Chapel. At first he seemed a bit nervous in
front of the 300 or so persons in the
audience; but then he loosened up, taking off
his tie, making grand gestures with his arms,
smiling a lot, and telling anecdotes.

He looked small and gaunt as he stood
behind the wide, wood lectern; at one point
he said he wished it weren’t there. He spoke
from notes and a loose outline.

Earlier in the day, Stoppard had said his
plays were ‘‘written to be seen, not to be
read.’’ He repeated that message in his
lecture.

‘‘T have never written anything for
study,’’ he said. “‘A play doesn’t have an
existence in the form of a book. It may have
the form of a book, but that is not quite
enough. Words have potency that goes
beyond their meaning.”’

But, he added, ‘‘words need the help of
association.’’ That association comes in the
form of knowledge that an audience brings to
a play and what the play itself provides.

Stoppard admitted that he is ‘‘something
of a meddler’’ when it comes to the
production of his plays. While many
playwrights will sit in the corner as their play
is readied for production, Stoppard prefers to
take a more active role.

Since a typewriter does not have a special
annotation for conveying every nuance ina
play, Stoppard said ‘‘the playwright can save
a lot of time’’ usually spent on interpretation.

‘‘Something I think is very clear may be
misinterpreted,’’ he said. But, it may not be
good, he added, to control interpretation that
highly.

Stoppard did not work his audience at the
lecture as much as it worked him. Questions
brought forth a controlled enthusiasm; he
was enjoying himself.

Following the lecture, there was a
reception for Stoppard at the Alumni House.
He was hedged in on all sides by persons
wanting to know this about his work or that
about a scene in a play.

His words came easily as he spoke with
animation. There was no time or need for
revisions now: this was an event.

15

Bridging the Gap

W&L Freshmen Share the R. E. Lee Hotel with Elderly Residents in an Unusual Arrangement

Jed Dunn is a 21-year-old senior at
Washington and Lee.

Bill Thompson is the 70-year-old resident
building manager of the Robert E. Lee Hotel
in Lexington.

Though they are a generation (or two)
apart, Dunn and Thompson share at least one
thing in common: their address. They are
both residents of the antiquated R. E. Lee
Hotel, living only a few doors away as part
of a rather unusual living arrangement.

Dunn is one of four dormitory counselors
assigned to live in the R. E. Lee this year
along with 90 W&L freshmen. The
University was forced to rent rooms in the
hotel for a portion of this year’s freshman
class as a result of the much-needed
renovation of the Graham-Lees Dormitory.

The freshmen are not, however, the only
residents of the R. E. Lee. Last fall, the old
hotel building was sold to an investment firm
which has begun converting the R. E. Lee
into permanent living quarters for indigent
elderly. Already, more than a dozen elderly
men and women have taken up residence in
the hotel, only to find themselves sharing
their home with the college students.

The real wonder is, the arrangement
could hardly be working better—for both the
students and the senior citizens.

When he first heard he had been assigned
to the hotel and that the freshmen would be
living among the older residents, Dunn was
skeptical—and understandably so.

‘*The situation,’’ Dunn says, “‘had
trouble written all over it.’’

And basing his expectations on previous
experience, Thompson anticipated the worst,
too.

‘‘T was around here when the last group
of students lived in the hotel (1978-79). So I
figured there was bound to be trouble,’’ says
Thompson, remembering how that last batch
of student residents converted the ballroom
into a makeshift football field and routinely
conducted water fights in the hall—that on
their quieter nights.

Happily (not to mention surprisingly), the
fears proved unfounded. The cohabitation
has not only worked smoothly, but some of
the consequences have been downright
astounding.

Take the case of Dunn and Thompson.
The two have become fast friends, bridging

16

 

Bill Thompson, age 70, and Jed Dunn, age 21, are neighbors in the R. E. Lee Hotel.

the generation gap with apparent ease. For
instance, Thompson invited Dunn and his
date to be his guests at a Moose Lodge dance
last fall. Dunn accepted.

‘‘T had a great time,’’ Dunn says. ‘“‘Bill is
apparently about as high as you can go in the
Moose, and everybody there knew him.’’

‘*T was proud to have Jed and his girl as
my guests,’’ says Thompson. ‘‘But you
know something? He never would get up and
dance. Not one time. And he’s supposed to
be a young guy.”’

One of the more humorous byproducts of
the arrangement involves the annual
Rockbridge Quilt Show, which was staged in
the R. E. Lee lobby and attracted visitors
from all over the East Coast to view the
handiwork. The W&L freshmen living on the
third floor were captured by the spirit of that
gala event and decided to stage a quilt show
of their own. They advertised their show
with signs that directed patrons of the ‘‘real’’
quilt show to the third floor hallway where
visitors were treated to an interesting and
certainly unique display. The items ranged
from a well-worn towel labeled ‘“Towel That
Wiped Traveller’s Brow’’ to a baby quilt
(which looked suspiciously like an old wash
cloth) to a cowboy quilt (which bore striking

resemblance to a towel with a cactus design).

‘*The incredible part was that not only
did several people walk up the stairs to take a
look, but some even left contributions,’’ says
Dunn.

All of this is not to suggest that the
situation has been totally devoid of
problems. It hasn’t. Early on, one of the
elderly residents did lodge complaints about
the noise: seems he was getting a stereo
version of the students’ stereos since his
room was sandwiched between rooms
occupied by students. One other mild
problem developed when one of the elderly
tenants kept students on one hallway awake
with some middle-of-the-night yodeling.

These were isolated incidents and were
quickly solved to everyone’s satisfaction.

‘*T would have to say that the dormitory
counselors are primarily responsible for the
smooth relationship that has developed
between the students and the elderly
residents,’’ says Lewis G. John, dean of
students. “‘In a situation like this one, you
are never sure what to expect, so you usually
expect the worst—and I must confess that I
did expect the worst.’’

Dunn admits that the counselors have
constantly reminded the freshmen that they

must respect their neighbors, whether they be

fellow students or older residents of the hotel.

‘We simply told the freshmen from the
start that we’re both here in the hotel,
students and older people, and we have got
to get along with each other. We had no
choice, really,’’ says Dunn. ‘And in a way,
it’s almost as if we were taking over their
domain, not the other way around.’’

If the unusual living arrangement had
resulted in nothing more than a peaceful
coexistence, everyone would have been
satisfied. In some ways, though, it has gone
beyond mere coexistence.

‘‘T think the older residents represent a
presence in the building that tends to make
the students a bit less wild than they might
otherwise be,’’ says Dunn. ‘‘And on the
other hand, I can promise you that the older
residents have not had one single slow day
since we moved in.”’

Adds Brook Wright, another senior
counselor and also a former resident of the
hotel during the less peaceful 1978-79
academic year: ‘‘The older residents actually
seem to enjoy having us around. A lot of
them having nothing to do all day but sit in
the lobby and watch the world go by on
Main Street. At least when one of us stops
and says nothing more than ‘Hello. How are

 

you?’ that’s a change of pace for them.

‘‘Even though we were more than a little
wild when I lived in the hotel as a freshman,
I remember one of the older women who
used to sit in the lobby all day. Whenever I’d
come racing through the lobby to get to a
class on time, this lady would invariably stop
me and make me go back to my room and
put on a sweater or a jacket because it was
cold outside.

‘‘Living here in the hotel gives the
students a kind of perspective that most
college students never would get.”’

Dave Schoenroch, a freshman from
Westport, Conn., is among those students
who routinely stop to make small talk with
the elderly R. E. Lee residents.

‘‘Usually it’s something as mundane as a
weather report,’’ Schoenroch says. ‘‘But it
seems to mean something to them when
someone will take the time to stop and say
hello and show some interest in them.

‘‘Living here has taught me something. kt
has given me some idea of how important the
littlest things, like conversation, can be to
people when they don’t have it.”’

From a purely practical standpoint, the
presence of the students has had a positive
impact on the senior citizens.

‘'For one thing,’’ says Dunn, ‘‘when

 

Brook Wright, senior’dorm counselor at the hotel, finds a unique perspective in the arrangement.

they were remodeling one of the hallways
upstairs, they had blocked one of the fire
escapes on a hall where mostly older people
live. Some of our students noticed that and
called it to the attention of a building
supervisor.”’

Adds Schoenroch: ‘‘One of the older
residents who lives on our floor is confined
to a wheelchair. One night when the fire
alarm went off, a couple of us made sure we
went down to his room and knocked on his
door to help him get out of the building.’’

That experience with a fire alarm led some
of the students on the upper floors where the
older residents live to map a fire escape plan.

‘“What they did was identify the rooms in
which the older residents were living so that
if there is a fire well know which rooms to
go to in order to help people out of the
building,’’ Dunn says.

Based on his experience in the hotel,
Dunn has devised a plan he hopes one of the
University’s organizations will implement in
future years.

‘My idea is something like ‘Adopt-A-
Grandparent.’ It would be similar to the Big
Brother program in that W&L students
would, on a systematic basis, help look out
for the residents of the R. E. Lee when that
becomes a home for the elderly,’’ Dunn
explains.

‘‘The students would make periodic
checks on their adopted grandparent, just to
see whether he or she was getting proper
health care and food or, at the very least, to
talk with them for a few minutes.”’

Whether Dunn’s plan ever progresses
from the idea stage, it is safe to say that all
the residents, young and old, will long
remember the year they’ve spent living
together at the R. E. Lee.

Says Thompson: ‘‘This is as nice a bunch
of men as you could ask for. They’re good
people.’’

Adds Bucky Brandt, a freshman from
Winnetka, IIl.: “‘When I visited the campus
last spring and was looking around
Lexington, I saw the hotel and thought to
myself that if I have to stay anywhere in
Lexington, I hope it’s never at the R. E. Lee
Hotel. Having lived here changed my mind.
It’s actually been better than dorm would
have been. Given the chance, I’d live here
again. It’s been a good experience.”’

17

 

& Gazette

 

 

University Library
adds retrieval system

Washington and Lee’s University Library
has inaugurated an information retrieval
system which gives library users access to an
estimated 60 million articles and citations
stored in a California computer.

The new system, known as DIALOG, is
made available to corporations and libraries
by the Lockheed Corporation.

By using a portable computer terminal
located in the University Library’s reference
and public services department, researchers
can ‘‘talk’’ with the central Lockheed
computer in Palo Alto, Cal., and can have
access to more than 100 computerized data
bases.

According to Richard F. Grefe, reference
and public services librarian, much of the
information, particularly certain
bibliographic data bases, were not previously
available in printed form in the University
Library.

“This system greatly expands the
research capabilities of the library,’’ said
Grefe, who administers the Automated
Information Retrieval Service (AIRS).

‘*In a matter of moments, quite literally,
the computer can go through thousands and
thousands of articles in search of a particular
topic,’’ Grefe explained.

The computer operators in California are
constantly entering new information into the
data bases.

‘We can, for instance, research articles
from The New York Times 24 hours after the
article has appeared,’’ Grefe noted.

‘*It makes a search almost infinitely
complex and also gives us access to materials
that we simply can’t afford to subscribe to.’”

As an example of the system, suppose
someone is researching the future of the
social security system in the United States.
By using the computer terminal, the
researcher could ask the central computer in
California to find all references in its
memory of articles in which the words
‘“social’’ and ‘‘security’’ are found in that
sequence. The computer can also be asked to
indicate any articles in which the words
‘‘social,’’ “*security,’’ and ‘‘future’’ are
contained.

After the computer locates the

18

information and it is printed out on the
portable terminal in the W&L library, the
researcher can then ask for printed versions
of all those articles.

The printed versions, containing not only
bibliographic material but also a brief
synopsis of the article, are mailed from the
California center and arrive within four to
five days of the request.

‘One of the most useful features of this
system is that subjects can be found not only
by their title but also by a search of all the
information in the abstract,’’ said Grefe. ‘‘If,
for instance, a story on social security has no
mention of social security in the title, it
would still be retrieved so long as the words
social security are found in the text of the
abstract.

‘That way, you are not at the mercy of
the indexer who made the entry into the
computer. ”’

One major drawback of the system is that
inquiries are rather expensive.

‘*It is clearly intended for people with
very serious research projects and not for
frivolous use,’’ said Grefe.

During the system’s trial period, the

University Library has conducted AIRS
searches free-of-charge to certain groups on
the campus, including students doing honors
theses or required senior theses, students in
selected 200-level-or-above courses, and
faculty members engaged in scholarly
research.

 

 

Hillsdale Fund awards
minority students scholarships

The Hillsdale Fund, Inc., of Greensboro,
N.C., has awarded Washington and Lee a
$24,000 grant to fund scholarships for
minority students.

The grant is for a three-year period.

The Hillsdale Fund, Inc., is a charitable
institution established by the family of the
late Lunsford Richardson, Sr., chairman of
the board of Richardson-Vicks, Inc.

Sion A. Boney, administrative vice
president of the Hillsdale Fund, said that
‘‘the board of trustees was delighted to be
able to participate in this innovative
scholarship program at Washington and Lee
University.”’

 

Richard F.. Grefe and Teresa D. Linton, assistant reference public services librarians, demonstrate the
library’ s computerized information retrieval service.

 

Each sandwich was chock full of
bologna, salami, ham, swiss cheese, cheddar
cheese, lettuce, and tomato.

‘“We put them together on an assembly
line. It took about 15 minutes to put these
sandwiches together,’’ said Darrell, without
bothering to add that the students needed far
less time to devour the products. ‘‘Each
sandwich fed about 26 people.”’

The subs were part of the regular
luncheon menu at Evans Dining Hall.

‘‘It’s just an attempt to add a little
diversity to the menus and break the
monotony,’’ Darrell explained. ‘‘Judging
from the way they went, I imagine we’ll
place another order before long and try it
again.”’

Meanwhile, pass the mustard. Lots of
mustard, please.

 

 

  
       

In the arts
: : —A special Virginia Museum exhibition,
Steve Kasdan, a cook for the University Food Service, builds a super-sub. ‘‘Oriental Splendor: Japanese and Chinese
Decorative Arts,’’ was displayed in duPont
Responding to the University’s receipt of _ five-foot long loaves of bread offered by a Gallery during November and December.
the grant, John L. White, director of New York bakery,’’ Darrell explained. ‘‘So The 29-object show was co-sponsored by
minority affairs at Washington and Lee, said: we ordered some just to see what we could Washington and Lee and the Rockbridge
‘“We are indeed grateful to the Hillsdale do with them.’’ Chapter of the Virginia Museum. In
Fund for its generosity in providing The result was 25 sandwiches, all of connection with the exhibition’s opening, the
scholarship money that will enable deserving |= which would have done Dagwood Bumstead 35-member board of trustees of the Virginia
minority students to attend Washington and proud. Museum met in Lexington in November.

Lee.’’

 

 

Pass the mustard!

Here’s an item for anyone who is
attempting to stretch the weekly supply of
groceries. And who isn’t these days?

In November, Washington and Lee
University’s food service specialists at Evans
Dining Hall used 25 sandwiches to feed 620
hungry students. And what students aren’t
hungry these days?

The catch?

Each sandwich was five feet long and
contained about 15 pounds of luncheon
meats and cheese.

The super-subs were the invention of
Jerry Darrell, manager of the W&L food
service.

‘“We had seen an advertisement for the

 

19

&e Gazette

—The St. Germain Trio presented the
third concert of the Washington and Lee
University Concert Guild season in
November. The St. Germain Trio is
composed of flutist Deborah Jean Nathan of
Boston, cellist Ettie Minor of Charlotte,
N.C., and pianist Pauline Lederer of Mt.
Vernon, N.Y.

—The Washington and Lee University
Glee Club and the Brass and Percussion
Ensemble were joined by the Mary Baldwin
College Choir for a program of Christmas
music in December.

 

 

Campus speakers

—Norman E. Isaacs, chairman of the
National News Council, told a Washington
and Lee audience in November that *‘the
greatest of all journalistic weaknesses
remains an incredible defensiveness.’’

Isaacs was the featured lecturer for the
eighth annual Institute on the Ethics of
Journalism, sponsored jointly by the
University’s program in applied ethics and
the department of journalism and
communications.

Formerly managing editor of
metropolitan dailies in St. Louis and
Louisville, Isaacs has long been a forceful
spokesman in the area of journalism ethics.
He told the W&L audience that ‘‘there would
be no need for ombudsmen or press councils
or media critics if only journalists had open
minds about the slips that occur and had a
sense of honor that moved them to prompt
correction of the record.”’

—wWill Hon, marine biologist and
education specialist for the University of
Georgia’s Marine Extension Service,
presented a lecture entitled **Planet Earth and
Its Ocean’’ in November. Hon’s talk
emphasized the connections between marine
biology and ocean energy resources,
international law, world politics, and
corporate affairs.

Hon’s appearance was jointly sponsored
by the departments of politics, sociology and
anthropology, biology, and philosophy.

—Curtis Humphris Jr., ’50, lectured in
November on ‘‘The Deep Tuscaloosa Gas
Trend of South Louisiana.’”’

Humphris, who currently resides in New

20

 

John M. McCardell, 71 eaves a WAL.

Orleans, is district geologist for Chevron
U.S.A. His lecture at W&L was sponsored
by the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.

A native of Lexington, Humphris was
awarded the Matson Award in 1976 for the
best paper presented at the annual meeting of
the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.

—Stewart L. Udall, secretary of the
interior in the Kennedy and Johnson
administrations, told a Washington and Lee
audience in December that the energy crisis
has forced a return to old-fashioned values.

Appearing under the auspices of
‘*Contact,’’ the speakers’ symposium jointly
sponsored by the Interfraternity Council and
the Executive Committee, Udall said that
when he was secretary of the interior under
President Kennedy in the early 1960s ‘‘we
had no energy policy; we didn’t think we
needed one.”’

Udall called himself a ‘‘troubled
optimist’’ and said he believes the United
States is entering a new period in which “‘life
becomes more interesting than during the
booming period (of the past). We will
become more self-reliant. We will slow
down. We will care more about our

neighborhoods. And we will care more about
the past.’”’

—John M. McCardell, ’71, associate
professor of history at Middlebury College,
presented a lecture entitled ‘Dilemma of the
Old South’’ in November.

McCardell’s lecture was sponsored by the
department of history.

McCardell is the author of ‘‘The Idea of a
Southern Nation,’’ a 1979 volume that won
the Allan Nevins Prize from the Society of
American Historians. He has been an
associate fellow of the Southern Studies
Program at the University of South Carolina.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Washington and Lee University law
professor Thomas L. Shaffer presented a
series of lectures on theology and law in
November as the featured speaker for the
Seegers Lectures, an endowed lecture series
at Valparaiso University in Valparaiso, Ind.
The title of Shaffer’s lectures was ‘*The
Legal Ethics of the Two Kingdoms.’’

—Washington and Lee University
professor Harold Hill was a special guest on
a television show examining the United
States’ developing relations with the People’s
Republic of China.

The show, which was part of a series
entitled ‘““World Perspectives,’’ aired over
Roanoke’s public television station, WBRA-
TV, in November.

—Dr. Gerard Maurice Doyon, pro-
fessor of art history, presented a slide
lecture at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
in Richmond in November. Doyon’s
presentation was entitled ‘‘Three Masters of
French XVIIIth Century Landscape:
Boucher, Fragonard, Robert’’ and officially
opened a special exhibition of 40 pictures on
loan from museums and private collections in
this country and Europe.

—O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus and
former head of the department of journalism
and communications, was one of the
panelists for a television documentary about
propaganda that was shown on Roanoke’s
WBRA-TV in November. The one-hour
program was entitled ‘‘Packaging American
Wars.’’ Charles McDowell, Richmond
Times-Dispatch columnist and a Washington

 

and Lee alumnus, moderated the panel and
narrated film footage that preceded the panel
discussion.

—wW. David Jones, assistant professor of
administration, presented a paper at the
annual meeting of the Southern Management
Association in Atlanta in November. Jones’
paper was entitled ‘‘Strategic Planning in the
Small Business Classroom’’ and dealt with
current practices in teaching strategic
planning in classes on small business
Management. —

—Minor Rogers, associate professor of
religion, has published an article in a
Japanese journal devoted to the study of Shin
Buddhist theology. Rogers’ article is based
on material originally presented in English at
the 25th International Conference of
Orientalists in May 1980 in Kyoto, Japan,
and in Japanese to the Shin Buddhist Studies
Department of Ryukoku University in June
1980. The title of the article is ‘‘Shinjin and
Anjin: A study of ‘Faith’ in Shin Buddhist
History.’’ It was published in the February
1981 issue of the journal, a publication of
Ryukoku University in Kyoto.

—Two Washington and Lee University
psychology professors, Leonard E. Jarrard
and David G. Elmes, presented a paper on
spatial learning and memory at the 22nd
annual convention of the Psychonomic
Society held in Philadelphia in November.

The paper reported the results of a two-and-

a-half year experiment on how normal and
brain-damaged rats accurately learn to find
food in diverse spatial locations. Jarrard and
Elmes found that damage to the
hippocampus, a deep brain structure
previously implicated in memory function,
severely impaired the rats’ ability to
remember and relearn the spatial location of
food. Furthermore, they reported that having
learned second food locations severely
disrupted the ability of normal animals to
remember and relearn the original locations
of food.

—Edward C. Atwood, dean of the
School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics, has been elected director of the
Southern Business Administration
Association for the academic year 1981-82.
The SBAA is a non-profit organization for
the promotion and improvement of collegiate
education for business in the South. The
association has 215 member institutions

which are located in the southeastern
quadrant of the United States. Atwood has
been active in the association for a number of
years. He was elected to the SBAA’s
executive committee in 1979.

—Richard B. Tyler, visiting professor of
law, was a featured lecturer at the Judge
Advocate General School in Charlottesville,
Va., in November. Tyler, who is visiting the
W&L School of Law during the 1981-82
academic year while on leave from the
University of Missouri, examined legal
interviewing techniques in his lecture to the
legal assistance officer class.

—Alex N. Dragnich, professor emeritus
of political science at Vanderbilt University,
will be visiting distinguished lecturer in
politics at Washington and Lee for the winter
term which began in January. Dragnich will
teach courses in American government and
international relations. The author of several
important publications including ‘‘Tito’s
Promised Land’’ (1954) and ‘*Major
European Governments’’ (1970), Dragnich
received the bachelor’s degree from the
University of Washington and both the
master’s and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of California at Berkeley.

 

 

 

Mollenhoff testifies
on executive privilege

Washington and Lee University
journalism professor Clark R. Mollenhoff
testified before a Congressional
subcommittee in November on the use of
‘‘executive privilege’’ by Interior Secretary
James Watt.

Mollenhoff told the House Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee that
Congress should take ‘‘direct contempt of
Congress action against Secretary Watt’’ for
his refusal to provide 31 documents to the
House Committee on Energy and Commerce.

**In the end,’’ said Mollenhoff, ‘‘this
will be a service to Mr. Watt, President
Reagan and the taxpayers.”’

Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
investigative reporter who formerly was
Washington bureau chief for the Des Moines
Register and Tribune, was invited to testify
as an expert witness on the subject of
‘‘executive privilege.’”’

Referring to his experiences with
previous administrations Mollenhoff told the

Priscilla Lewis and Chris Lallja enact a scene from William Wycherley’s The Country Wife, the University
Theatre’ s first production of the 1981-82 season.

21

Ye Gazette

 

Gary Hobson Dobbs III
1948-1981

Gary Hobson Dobbs III, 33, associate
professor of biology and one of
Washington and Lee’s most dedicated and
popular teachers, died December 31,
1981.

Dobbs’ death was the result of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound.

A native of Birmingham, Ala., Dobbs
was valedictorian of Washington and
Lee’s 1970 graduating class. He received
the bachelor of science degree in biology.

As an undergraduate at W&L, Dobbs
was named to Phi Eta Sigma freshman
honor society and was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa during his junior year. He was a
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar (1967-
1969) and a Henry Ruffner Scholar
(1969-1970). He won the Biology
Departmental Scholarship and the
Robinson Award in Math and Sciences as
a senior.

He earned his Ph.D. degree in marine
biology from the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography at the University of
California at San Diego in December
1974. He was a National Science
Foundation Graduate Fellow (1970-71,
1971-72, and 1972-73), a Woodrow
Wilson Fellow (1970-71), and an
Achievement Awards for College
Scientists Scholar (1970-71 and 1971-72).

He joined the faculty of Washington
and Lee in January 1975 and quickly
earned the reputation as a superb teacher.
He also became an extraordinarily popular
lecturer for civic groups and public
schools throughout Rockbridge County
and the surrounding area. He was the
author of almost a dozen articles in
scholarly journals.

He was a research associate at the
Duke University School of Medicine

 

Gary Dobbs aids student

 

in the laboratory

during the summer of 1975 and held a
similar position at the Pritzker School of
Medicine at the University of Chicago
during the summer of 1976.

A devoted alumnus of Washington
and Lee, Dobbs often spoke to alumni
groups and participated in several recent
Special Alumni Conferences as a member
of a panel on teaching and student life.

In April 1981, Dobbs was the
recipient of one of the Ring-tum Phi’s
annual awards for exceptional service to
the University.

Dobbs left the bulk of his estate to
Washington and Lee for the use of the
Department of Biology.

He is survived by his father, Gary H.
Dobbs Jr., of Birmingham, Ala., and a
sister, Teena Harfst, of Lakeland, Fla.

Washington and Lee President Robert
E. R. Huntley said: “‘Gary Dobbs was
one of the most able and devoted young
faculty members at Washington and Lee.
His death 1s a tragic loss for us; he will be
warmly and fondly remembered by his
colleagues and students.’’

 

 

subcommittee that in the past 25 years ‘‘one
of the major impediments to full
investigations by Congress has been the
claim of ‘executive privilege’ laid down by
various agencies of government. Most of the
time the claim of ‘executive privilege’ has
been nothing but a cover-up of corruption,

22

mismanagement or improprieties in various

executive agencies and was not the least in
the national interest.”’

Mollenhoff argued that ‘‘any president
who permits his cabinet officers to use a
claim of ‘executive privilege’ to hide
information from Congress is taking a long

step down a slippery slope. He is opening a
Pandora’s Box in giving any support to this
pernicious doctrine, and it will come back to
haunt him as it has past presidents.’’

Acknowledging that President Ronald
Reagan ‘‘still projects a personal image of an
honest, forthright man,’’ Mollenhoff said
that ‘‘even President Reagan can seriously
damage that image and that strength if it is
perceived by the public that he is not open
and forthright; if it is believed he is
permitting Cabinet officers to use ‘executive
privilege’ to cover up questionable actions.”’

Mollenhoff had previously appeared
before Congressional subcommittees as a
witness on the use of ‘‘executive privilege.’’

He was formerly a member of the U.S.
Commission on Government Information,
appointed to that position by President John
F. Kennedy. Mollenhoff also served as
deputy counsel and special counsel to
President Richard M. Nixon from July 1969
to July 1970.

 

 

Phi Eta Sigma
inducts 26 at W&L

Twenty-six Washington and Lee
University sophomores were inducted this
month into Phi Eta Sigma, the national honor
society for students who completed their
freshman year with superior academic
records.

To be eligible for Phi Eta Sigma
membership, a freshman must achieve at
least a 3.5 grade-point average. The society
was founded in 1923 at the University of
Illinois and now has 180 chapters and more
than 200,000 members nationally.

The students inducted into Phi Eta Sigma
are: David W. Ames from Virginia Beach,
Va.; David B. Arnold from Hattiesburg,
Miss.; Andy Asimos from York, Pa.; Bill
Berghel from Atlanta, Ga.; Scott Doyle from
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; Reid Flinn from
Richmond, Va.; Bill Foster from Newark,
Del.;

Jeff Gee from Johnson City, Tenn.; John
L. Graves from Virginia Beach, Va.; Allen
Haight from Rowayton, Conn.; John V.
Howard Jr. from Dallas, Tex.; David
Killenbeck from Spencerport, N.Y.; Jeff

 

 

Fancy Dress Tickets Available
To Alumni (See Item Below)

 

Knapp from Berwyn, Pa.; David S. Knitter
from Riverdale, Ga.;

Andrew J. MacLellan from Flemington,
N.J.; John W. Miller III from Lancaster, Pa.;
Jack L. O’Brien from Plantation, Fla.; Cam
Philpott from Englewood, Colo.; Scott S.
Prysi from Alexandria, Va.; Russell R. Ros-
ler from Toledo, Ohio; Tom Sackfield from
Louisville, Ky.; Mark S. Schramm from
Vienna, Va.; Tim Valliere from Uncasville,
Conn.; David J. Warrenfeltz Jr. from
Smithburg, Md.; Gene Wood from Roanoke,
Va.; and, Robert C. Woods from McLean,
Va.

 

 

Tickets available
for 75th Fancy Dress

Seventy five years have passed since
Miss Annie Jo White took her $47 budget
surplus and splurged on a dance for her
students.

On March 5, 1982, Washington and Lee
will celebrate the Diamond Anniversary of
Miss Annie Jo’s invention by staging what
its organizers have vowed will be the fanciest
Fancy Dress Ball of all.

And to help the celebration along, the
Student Activities Board is inviting all
Washington and Lee alumni to the party.

Fancy Dress is moving this year from
Evans Hall to the Warner Center in order to
accommodate a larger crowd.

‘“We are not only inviting alumni to
come back for this 75th anniversary of the
ball, but we are counting heavily on their
participation,’’ said John Martin, president
of the SAB.

‘‘In addition to moving Fancy Dress to
the Warner Center to avoid the terrible crush
of people we have had in the past, the budget
has been expanded to help us make this the
most memorable of all Fancy Dress Balls.

“We promise that no one will recognize
the Warner Center and that no one will forget
this Fancy Dress.’’

Lester Lanin and his Orchestra will
provide the music in the main ballroom while
other bands will include Chairman of the
Board, Voltage Brothers, and the Cobras.

The entertainment will include
appearances by several special guests.

Tickets to Fancy Dress are $25 per
couple in advance and $30 per couple at the
door. Martin warns that security will be
tighter than ever, so all the ball-goers will
need to have a ticket.

To order Fancy Dress tickets, write:

Student Activities Board

Fancy Dress 1982 Tickets
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Editorial lauds
Fielder Cook

Veteran television producer and director
Fielder Cook, ’46, was honored by the
Tampa (Fla.) Museum in October for ‘‘his
two-score years of contributions to the arts
through television and motion picture
direction.”’

In connection with the Tampa tribute, an
editorial in The Tampa Times lauded the
contributions which Cook, a native of
Tampa, had made through his work.

The editorial read, in part:

*“Family, that old-fashioned measure of
one’s roots and maybe even one’s worth,
seems to be recovering from what some of us

 

 

Fielder Cook, ’46, talks with students on a recent
visit to W&L.

 

thought was a terminal case of apathetic
deterioration. Because television influences
us more than we prefer to admit, Fielder
Cook may have contributed significantly to
those signs of new life... .

‘It seems fitting that this apostle of
family has found honor in his own
hometown, sort of a ‘thank you’ from those
of us who figure that entertainment can, on
occasion, be good and wholesome. ”’

Among his many credits, Cook directed
The Homecoming, a two-part classic pilot for
the long-running series, The Waltons. He
was highly acclaimed for Teacher, Teacher,
a show about the training of a little retarded
boy. He won an Emmy for The Price, a story
about the coming home of a band of brothers,
and for Brigadoon.

 

 

Puryear leads
ROTC program

Washington and Lee University’s
Military Science Department has named
senior Scott B. Puryear of Madison, Va., as
Cadet Battalion Leader for 1981-82.

Puryear, a politics and economics major,
was named to the post by Major David F.
Fowler Jr., professor of military science at
WL.

As Cadet Battalion Commander, Puryear
is responsible for all aspects of the student
program, including command for all field
training. 7

Other senior members of W&L’s Army
ROTC program selected for the cadet chain
of command were: Anthony R. Ierardi, a
business administration major from
Philadelphia, who was named Battalion
Executive Officer; Douglas R. Linton III, a
journalism major from Bay Head, N.J., who
was named S1 or Adjutant; Robert D.
Shaver, a psychology major from Quentin,
Pa., who was named S2 and is in charge of
security; Russell H. Rector, a business
administration major from Kansas City, who
was named Operations and Training Officer;
and, M. DeRohan Chalkley III, a history
major from Suffolk, Va., who was selected
as the logistician (S4).

This year’s cadet corps is organized as a
maneuver battalion with three subordinate

23

Ye Gazette

companies, which will be under the
command of Clyde M. B. Harkrader, a
senior history major from Mineral, Va.,
Richard Taylor Freeman, a senior business
administration major from Baton Rouge, La.,
and Donald G. Ainslie, a Lynchburg College
student who is participating in the W&L
program.

 

 

Who’s Who lists
29 W&L students

Twenty-nine Washington and Lee
University students—22 undergraduate
seniors and seven third-year law students—
have been included in the 1981-82 edition of
‘*‘Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges.’’

Students are elected to ‘‘Who’s Who’’ by
a committee of the University’s student
government. Selection is based on academic
achievement, service to the community,
leadership in extracurricular activities, and
potential for the future.

The Washington and Lee seniors named
this year are: Michael P. Bernot from
Hampton, Va.; Frank W. Brower III from
Doylestown, Pa.; William Scott Dacus from
Greenville, S.C.; Barry Robert Dunn from
Kennelon, N.J.; James Thad Ellis I from
Seaford, Del.; Floyd Brian Gibson from
Matthews, N.C.; Kenneth Andrew Lang
from Garden City, N.Y.; John B. McKee III
from Clarksdale, Miss.; James Kelly Moles
Jr. from Roanoke; Robert Bennett Muskin
from Glenside, Pa.; Eric Tipton Myers from
Doswell, Va.; Nelson Ellis Ould from
Richmond; Edmund Payne Perry from
Birmingham, Ala.; Robert Davis Shaver
from Quentin, Pa.; Robert Michael Staugaitis
from Farmingdale, N.Y.; Andrew Frank
Trotter from Midlothian, Va.; John Anderson
Wells III from Columbia, S.C.; James
Patrick Wenke from Glenolden, Pa.; William
Lawrence Westcott II from Baldwin, Md.;
James Franklin Williams from Danville, Va.;
Franklin Hoover White from Arlington, Va.;
and, Robert Blake Witherington from
Athens, Ga.

The third-year W&L law students named
are: Guy Arcidiacono from Douglaston,
N.Y.; Mrs. Christine Conkling Chapman

24

from Charlottesville, Va.; Charles P. Monroe
from Arlington, Va.; Patricia E. Sinskey
from Malibu, Cal.; Catherine Ann Sullivan
from Westerly, R.I.; Guy Leonard Sweet
from Holt, Mich.; and, Kenneth Tillou from
Hamburg, N.Y.

 

 

Alumnus Peaslee
rescues Rikkyo football

George B. (Bart) Peaslee, ’80, has had an
undeniable impact on Rikkyo University, the
private Japanese school with which
Washington and Lee has an extremely
successful exchange program.

While many exchange students find little
time to become deeply involved in
extracurricular activities, Peaslee has been an
exception since he arrived at Rikkyo in
April 1980.

So involved has Peaslee become, in fact,
that a Tokyo newspaper ran a feature story
about Peaslee on its front page—its front
sports page, that is.

Translated, the headline read: *“A
Rescuer Comes to Rikkyo University:
Introducing Bart Peaslee, An American
Exchange Student.”’

The story related Peaslee’s contribution
to Rikkyo’s football team:

oe

. . now, Rikkyo University is
introducing its blue-eyed player, Bart
Peaslee, a 23-year-old American who
enrolled last April as an exchange student in
Rikkyo University’s Christianity
Department, Division of Literature. In Coach
Abe’s words, Bart’s appearance is a
‘‘stimulus both in game strategy and for the
other players.’”’

Peaslee, who played at Washington and
Lee as a freshman before injuring his knee
early in his sophomore year, is called an
invaluable member of the Rikkyo team
despite his size; he stands 1.73 meters,
weighs 83 kilograms, and is said to possess
‘‘a physique not unlike the average Japanese

player.’’
Quoting from the translated article: **. . .
the team . . . has gained an invaluable

player, Coach Abe explains, ‘Players who
have played in the States before usually
complain about how we do things here.
They’re not happy with our drills or
with our technique. But Bart is not like that
at all. He sticks to the basics and has a good
attitude. He’s a good example for the team.
You feel secure with a guy like him on the
team. He’s a stimulus for us this season.”’
Peaslee was also considered a major
reason Rikkyo had compiled an early record
of 6-2—far better than previous Rikkyo
teams had been able to accomplish.

 

 

Participants in the exchange program with Rikkyo University are Kazuhiro Hazama, who attended W&L
last year; Stephen H. Denny, ’83, current W&L exchange student; George (Bart) Peaslee, ’80, also at
Rikkyo; and James Yashiro, Rikkyo dean who was Howerton Scholar in Residence at W&L last year.

What a Season!

Generals Capture First ODAC Football Title, Compile Best Record Since 1972

Washington and Lee’s football Generals
climaxed their most successful season in
almost two decades by scoring a rare double
victory on the last Saturday of the season.

First, the Generals exploded for 35
second-half points for a 43-15 victory over
visiting Georgetown. The win enabled W&L
to finish its season at 8-2—the Generals’ best
record since the 1962 team went 8-1.

That was reason enough to celebrate, of
course. But there was more.

Less than 30 minutes after they had won
the Georgetown game and while the post-
game celebration was still in progress, the
Generals were informed that they had been
crowned champions of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. The conference title
came after Hampden-Sydney and Randolph-
Macon had played to a 10-10 tie that same
afternoon. That tie left W&L and Maryville
alone at the top of the ODAC with identical
4-1 league records. But since the Generals
had beaten Maryville earlier in the year, the
ODAC championship belonged to W&L.

‘*It was,’’ said W&L head coach Gary
Fallon, ‘‘a story book finish.”’

And the story didn’t end there, either.

Three days after the season concluded,
the honors started rolling in.

Fallon, completing his fourth year as
W&L’s head coach, was named the ODAC’s
Coach of the Year.

Chris Cavalline, the Generals’ triple-
threat tailback, was voted the ODAC’s
Player of the Year. Cavalline rushed for 765
yards and seven touchdowns, caught 23
passes for 221 yards, and punted 36 times for
an average of 35.0 yards per punt. He is the
third General to win the ODAC’s Player of
the Year award. Wide receiver Tony Perry
won the honor in 1976, and linebacker Carl
Folcik won it in 1978.

W&L dominated the ODAC’s All-
Conference team, placing eight players on
the first team. The All-Conference selections
were Cavalline, sophomore quarterback Al
Paradise, senior tight end Mike Fogarty,
junior offensive lineman Andy Foley,
sophomore offensive lineman Glenn
Kirschner, junior placekicker Bill Devine,
senior defensive lineman Mike Pressler, and
junior defensive back Barry Thompson.

 

 

 

There was still more to come. Mike Pressler, left, was named to two All-America teams, including the Associated Press Little All-America
In early December, Pressler became team, while head coach Gary Fallon was chosen ODAC Coach of the Year.

25

 

What a Season!

Washington and Lee’s second Kodak AII-
American. A 5-11, 205-pounder from
Wilton, Conn., Pressler was named the first
team nose guard on Kodak’s College Division
II class. He started every game during his
four-year career and led the Generals’
defense in tackles during his sophomore and
senior seasons.

‘“As an athlete who started in every game
and who had a tremendous impact on nearly
every one, Mike proved himself a durable
player and an instrumental part of W&L’s
growth and success these four years,’’ Fallon
said of Pressler.

The only other W&L player to receive
the Kodak award was Perry in 1976.

In addition to his Kodak honor, Pressler
was named to the Roanoke Times & World-
News All-State team, joining players from
Division I teams such as Virginia Tech,
Virginia, and VMI on that squad.

So there were plenty of reasons to
celebrate W&L’s 1981 season. Once the
celebrating was over, though, Fallon quickly
began looking toward the future.

‘‘T’m happy for the team, especially for
the 13 seniors who were my first batch of
recruits. I’m tickled that they can finish as
winners after providing so much of the effort
which has built this program,”’ said Fallon.
‘‘But with those seniors out of the picture,
we now look to those players who will
replace them next season. Those players will
need to be prepared for a season in which our
opponents will probably put us on a pedestal
and fire away.”’

 

 

Water polo hits
30-win plateau

Washington and Lee’s young water polo
program moved toward national prominence
this fall when the Generals finished fifth in
the eight-team Eastern Intercollegiate
Championships.

W&L compiled a 31-5 record, recording
the most wins by a Generals’ athletic team in
a single season.

‘‘Our performance at the Eastern
Championships, our record, and the
recognition we’ ve received this season from
coaches across the country indicate that we
have become a national-level program,”’ said

26

Angus McBryde, wearing No. 206, leads the pack and is followed by teammates Frank Pittman (No. 209)

and Jon Kelafant (No. 208).

third-year head coach Page Remillard.

On its way to qualifying for the Eastern
Championships, W&L won both the Virginia
State Championships and the Southern
League Championship.

In the Easterns at Providence, R.I., the
Generals opened with an 18-14 loss to
Slippery Rock, then scored victories over
Richmond and Harvard to compile a 2-1
record in the tournament. Junior Erik
Peterson and senior Mike Bernot were named
to the All-East second team for their
performances.

 

 

Soccer standouts gain
several major honors

Washington and Lee soccer standouts
Tad Renner, Kirk Mancer, and Roland
Simon received an array of awards in
December from the Virginia Intercollegiate
Soccer Association (VISA) and the National
Soccer Coaches’ Association of America.

Renner, a junior defensive mainstay of

 

the Generals, was named to the 1 1-member
VISA All-State team. He is the first W&L
All-State player since Jim Fox received the
honor in 1974.

Renner and Mancer, a junior goalkeeper,
participated in the annual VISA East-West
All-Star match and helped the West claim a
3-1 triumph in the game.

Simon joined Renner and Mancer on the
All-South Division III third team chosen by
the NCSAA. Simon and Renner also
received first-team honors in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

W&L’s soccer team finished its season
with a 4-10-1 record under sixth-year head
coach Rolf Piranian.

 

 

W&L cross country team
places 4th in regionals

Led by the strong performance of
sophomore Angus McBryde, Washington
and Lee’s cross country team completed its
1981 season by finishing fourth in the nine-

 

 

team NCAA Division III South/Southeast
Regional Qualifying Meet held in Nashville,
Tenn., in November.

McBryde placed eighth in the regional
meet with a time of 25 minutes, 47.1
seconds. His finish was the best ever by a
W&L runner in the event.

‘‘Tf we had run as well during the season
as we did in the regional meet, we would
have been undefeated and possibly
conference champions,’’ said W&L head
coach Dick Miller.

The Generals compiled an 8-3 dual meet
record and placed fourth in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championship
meet. The 8-3 record was Miller’s 21st
winning mark in 30 seasons as head coach.

McBryde won All-ODAC honors by
finishing seventh in the conference meet.
Other top performers during the season were
freshman Frank Pittman, who finished 10th
in the regional meet; senior captain Greg
Branan, who was 32nd in the regionals;
junior Jon Kelafant, who was 33rd in the
regionals; and, freshman Steve Whetzle, who
was 45th in the regionals.

 

 

NCAA swimming championships
slated for Twombly Pool

Washington and Lee will host the eighth
annual NCAA Division III Swimming and
Diving Championships on March 18, 19, and
20 in the Cy Twombly Pool.

As of early January, three Generals had
already qualified to compete in the
Championships. Senior Mike Bernot
qualified for the 50-, 100-, and 200-yard
freestyle events; sophomore Tim Rock
qualified for the 500- and 1650-yard
freestyles; and sophomore Rand McClain
qualified for the 50-yard freestyle. W&L’s
400-yard freestyle relay team has also
qualified.

Bernot and Rock will be striving to
continue their string of All-America honors
in the NCAA meet. Bernot won two such
honors at the 1980 championships and three
in the 1981 event while Rock earned one All-
America honor in 1981.

The Division II Championships will
include 18 events: 13 individual swimming
events, three relays, and two diving events.

 

W&L’s Brad Poorman battles VMI’ s John Carr in the first annual United Way Collegiate Cup Soccer
Match won by VMI, 2-1.

 

 

AN

 

by Jeffery Hanna

Spike-a-Thon ’

S/

... Or how Ellis B. (Spike) Schulist Became the World’s Greatest Athlete

‘We only live once, Sergeant,’’ said
Mitty, with his faint, fleeting smile. ‘‘Or
do we?”’

—From *‘The Secret Life of Walter Mitty,”’
by James Thurber.

As birthday parties go, Ellis B. (Spike)
Schulist’s 50th was nothing short of
extraordinary.

Schulist, 53, turned 50 on September 4,
1981. Not coincidentally, that is also the day
on which he earned the title ‘‘World’s
Greatest Athlete’’ by scoring a record
165,001 points in the first (and probably last)
**Spike-a-thon.”’

For years, Spike Schulist had been the
quintessential Walter Mitty. He had also
been (and still is) crazy about sports—not
any particular sport, really, but all sports.
When he was a student at Washington and
Lee, Schulist won letters in soccer and track and
captured the intramural Ping-Pong
championship. (‘‘I probably spent too much
time playing Ping-Pong and not enough
studying,’’ he says retrospectively.)

In his Mitty dreams, Schulist invariably
cast himself as the consummate sports hero,
as the all-everything athlete who routinely
performed marvelous deeds of derring-do.

So it was that on his 5Oth birthday, Spike
Schulist wound up living his dreams. |

Here’s how it happened:

Schulist is a native of Cleveland, Ohio,

and is currently in the real estate business near

San Francisco. But the truth is, Schulist left his
heart in Cleveland. At least, he remains
utterly devoted to that city’s professional
sports teams. Too, he remains closely
attached to a group of men with whom he
grew up in Cleveland.

That Cleveland group, which includes
W&L graduate Chuck Rauh, ’54, has
distinguished itself by celebrating its
members’ birthdays with rather unusual
parties.

For instance, one member of the group is
a horse-racing aficionado. On one of his
birthdays, the group kidnapped the horse-
racing fan, took him to a nearby track and
had him dress in a set of jockey silks. (‘‘It
was particularly impressive,’’ recalls
Schulist, ‘“because this fellow weighs about
210 pounds and had to be the world’s largest
jockey.’’) The oversized jockey was handed
a wooden stick with a horse’s head on one

28

end and proceeded to gallop in front of the
grandstand.

A bachelor member of the group was
given a mock wedding ceremony at Niagara
Falls for his party. And one other birthday
involved renting a theatre and staging a
production in which the birthday celebrant,
who had been active in college theatre,
performed the title role.

That brings us to Spike Schulist and his
50th birthday.

‘‘I knew when I went back to Cleveland
with my family that something had to be
up,’ Schulist says. ‘‘But I didn’t know
what. And I didn’t know when.”’

The night before the big day, Schulist
was given his instructions: He was to appear
at a nearby school at an appointed hour the
next morning. He was to wear his tennis
clothes and was to bring his tennis racquet.

‘‘They told me I ought to bring my knee
brace along, too,’’ Schulist says. ‘‘That
should have been a clue.”’

As scheduled, Schulist pulled up in front
of the school the following morning and was
greeted with a huge banner proclaiming
‘‘Spike-a-thon ’81.’’ His friends were all
wearing striped officials’ jerseys. Two
cheerleaders wearing ‘‘Spike-a-thon’’ tee
shirts were there. And a video tape camera
was recording the scene.

‘‘T was told that I was about to take part
in an international athletic event,’’ Schulist
says. ‘‘The idea was that I was in second
place and would be trying to get to first place
by accumulating points in a series of events
along the way. They told me that if I made
it, I would be the ‘World’s Greatest
Athlete.’ ”’

The Spike-a-thon record, he was
informed, was 165,000 points and was held
by an East German.

Instructions given, the birthday
celebration began in earnest with all guests
boarding a school bus and heading for
Shaker Heights High School and the first
event of ‘*‘Spike-a-thon ’81.”’

In the high school gymnasium, Schulist
was given a Cleveland Cavaliers’ basketball
jersey—No. 50, of course. Then he was
handed a basketball and told to warm up.

‘‘There I was, shooting the ball around,
and here comes Mike Mitchell, a player for
the Cavaliers. He was wearing his National

Basketball Association All-Star Game
uniform,’’ Schulist says, still marveling at
the scene weeks later. ‘‘So then they tell us
the first event will be a game of HORSE
between Mike Mitchell and me.”’

For the uninitiated, HORSE is a
playground game in which one player
attempts a shot and, if successful, his
Opponent must duplicate that shot.

‘‘T played well, I really did,’’ Schulist
says. ‘‘The one thing that got me, though,
was when Mitchell went up and dunked one.
The best I could do to duplicate that was have
Chuck (Rauh) boost me up with his hands
and try to flip it in.

‘‘T did make one long hook shot that
Mitchell missed. The bad thing was that it
was the only shot they didn’t get on the
videotape.”’

Afterward, one of Schulist’s friends
interviewed Mitchell for the camera. And
Mitchell obliged, claiming Schulist had more
moves than Dr. J.

The party then adjourned to the bus and
headed downtown to Municipal Stadium,
home of the Cleveland Indians baseball team
and Cleveland Browns football team.

‘‘It was perfect timing because the
Browns were going to be on national
television two days later, so the ABC-TV
trucks were there setting up equipment,”’
Schulist says. ‘‘Of course, I was told that
ABC was there to film the ‘Spike-a-thon’ for
‘Wide World of Sports.’ ”’

This time Schulist was given an Indians
jersey—No. 50 again.

‘‘T had no idea who might show up this
time,’’ Schulist says. ‘‘But I figured
somebody would.’’

Somebody did. Mike Garcia, a former
Cleveland pitching star and one of Schulist’s
former heroes, walked in wearing his
Cleveland uniform.

**The field in the stadium was wet, so we
went out on the other side of the fence, and
Mike Garcia pitched to me—slowly, of
course,’’ Schulist explains. ‘‘I finally got
hold of one pitch and hit it over the fence. It
went over the fence the wrong way—into the
park instead of out of the park—but it did go
over.

‘‘They interviewed Mike Garcia for the
video tape camera and asked him to name the
toughest hitters he had ever faced. Garcia

 

C. Klein

by John

Photographs

 

 

inst

haga

llc.

prepares top

, left,

itcher Mike Garcia

"54

ians p

Former Cleveland Ind

ler

Cleveland Cavali

ith

ist holds second-place trophy from HORSE contest w

Schul

, center, watches.

,

ist as Chuck Rauh

Schul

ike Mitchell, left.

star M

 

ckfield for

ill (35) are the ba

H

in

tt (42) and Calv

ike Prui

Cleveland Browns M
quarterback Schul

Pong champion

ing-

allenges Pi

ist ch

Encouraged by cheerleaders, Schul

Danny Vegh

St

left.

,’

 

 

Schulist prepares to meet Chris Zabell, the No. 1 ranking 12-year-old player

Schulist, center with knee brace, poses with members of the Cleveland Force

professional soccer team.

Ohio, in the tennis event.

In

29

 

Spike-a-thon ’81

 

said, ‘Joe DiMaggio, Ted Williams, and
Spike Schulist.’ It was perfect.’’

Then it was back on the bus. Next stop:
an athletic club on the West Side of the city.
There, Danny Vegh, an international table
tennis champion, was waiting, paddle in hand.

‘‘T scored a pretty good number of points
against him,’’ says Schulist, ‘‘and then he
called me one of the finest players he’d ever
faced for the benefit of the camera.”’

After a lunch break during which Schulist
was asked to add his autograph to those of
the Cleveland Browns on an advertisement in
the restaurant, the party headed for Baldwin-
Wallace College, training site of the
Cleveland Browns.

‘“By now I had begun expecting famous
people to show up,”’ Schulist says.

Still, he was shocked when Dante
Lavelli, a former Browns all-star receiver
known as ‘‘Old Glue Fingers,’’ appeared on
the practice field.

‘*T couldn’t believe it,’’ says Schulist. ‘‘I
still can’t believe it.”’

The football event pitted Schulist (or
‘‘Old Butter Fingers,’’ as his friends called
him) against Lavelli in a contest running
diagrammed pass patterns.

‘We were graded on style, grace, and
speed the same way figure skaters are
graded,”’ Schulist says. “‘The amazing thing
was that neither of us dropped a pass. I even
made one great, leaping catch where the ball

30

reviated tennis match 4-0.

 

SS

just stuck in my fingers.’’

After the competition against Lavelli,
Schulist was hustled over to the Browns
practice where he played quarterback for
several mock plays, handing the ball off to
Cleveland runners Calvin Hill and Mike
Pruitt.

‘“The two Cleveland players told me that
I was good enough to make the Browns,”’
Schulist says. ‘‘They added that I could
make it as a water boy.’”’

From the Browns camp, the bus drove to
a practice session of the Cleveland Force, a
professional soccer team.

‘‘IT was in my element there, having
played soccer at W&L,’’ Schulist says. ‘‘I
shot against one of the professional goalies
and even scored one legitimate goal. Then I
got in the goal and they shot at me. I’d never
played goalie before, and the ball really
zipped in there at me. But I did make a few
saves.

“The Force player-coach offered me a
contract, but I told him I’d been offered a
contract by the Browns and Indians and
would have to consider all the offers.’’

The final stop was a country club where
Schulist was scheduled to play tennis as the
sixth and last event in the ‘*‘Spike-a-thon.”’

‘‘T warmed up with the club
professional,’’ Schulist says. ‘*‘But after a
few minutes of rallying, he said, ‘You’re
way too good for me. Let me find somebody

 

Even the World’ s Greatest Athlete needs a little sustenance now and
then!

else for you to play.’ He left and came
back a few minutes later with a little kid, a
| 2-year-old.

‘‘T have a son who plays tennis, so I
know how good a 12-year-old can be. We
only played four games, and the kid won all
four. I found out later he was the state
champion in his age group. But I still say I
could have beaten that kid if we’d played a
whole match.’’

Once all the events were completed, the
party adjourned for dinner. There, Schulist
was given the good news.

‘‘They told me that Price-Waterhouse had
computed my score at 165,001. I made it by
a point,’’ Schulist says.

The video taped highlights of the day’s
proceedings were shown at the dinner. A few
days later details of Schulist’s remarkable
birthday party were related on the front
sports page of the Cleveland Plain Dealer.

‘It was an amazing day,’’ Schulist says.
‘‘I’ve never been in the limelight before in
any way, So it was really a treat for me. And
here I was doing all the things I love to do.
I’m still a kid at heart, anyway.’’

The Spike-a-thon did, however, create
one rather thorny problem for the Cleveland
birthday bunch.

What in the world will they do for Spike
Schulist’s 60th?

‘‘T don’t know,”’ says Schulist. ‘But I
can hardly wait to find out.’’

 

Chapter News

UPPER POTOMAC. The chapter held its annual dinner meeting
on Aug. 12 at the Cumberland (Md.) Country Club, with cocktails
preceding dinner. Attending were J. Goodloe Jackson, "14; Mr. and
Mrs. James A. Black, 34; Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Helmer, ’36; Mr.
and Mrs. Thomas N. Berry, ’38; Mr. and Mrs. William L. Wilson,
°38; Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Mason, 751; and Mr. and Mrs. Albert
D. Darby Jr., ’43. Special guests were Marty Thomas, ’83, a
current student; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. George Thomas of
Frostburg, Md., and Mrs. Pauline Pickens, widow of a chapter
founder, Paul D. Pickens, °17.

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA. A large number of alumni, their wives
and guests attended a chapter meeting on Aug. 13 at The Best
Place, formerly the Charcoal House, in Danville. Cocktails
preceded dinner. Special guests were University Treasurer E.
Stewart Epley, ’49, and his wife, Nancy. Epley’s report on the
financial condition of the University was enthusiastically received.
Robert T. Vaughan Jr., ’79L, chapter president, made the
arrangements and presided at the meeting. He reported plans for
spring chapter activities, perhaps in Clarksville, and a summer
gathering, perhaps in Martinsville. Also attending the meeting was
John Duckworth, ’71, a University development associate.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. Alumni and their wives from the
Shreveport area gathered for dinner at the Shreveport Club on Oct.
6. The chapter’s special guest was Robert Fure, director of summer
programs and assistant director of publications at the University.
His report on the various programs to be held on campus this
summer was well received.

CHARLESTON, S.C. Alumni from the area gathered at the
Carolina Yacht Club in Charleston on Oct. 14 and organized a new
chapter. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, presented the group
a certificate, recognizing the chapter’s official membership in the
national alumni association. He also presented color slides of the
campus. Arrangements for the meeting were made by Richard W.
Salmons, ’51, with the assistance of Dr. Richard S. McCain, ’74.
McCain presided and introduced Washburn. Pending a report from
the nominating committee, McCain; R. W. Salmons, ’51; and
Richard Salmons Jr., ’81, were elected interim officers. Washburn,
speaking for the Washington and Lee Alumni Association, thanked
the group for its interest and for organizing a chapter.

PHILADELPHIA. Area alumni held their annual fall luncheon on
Nov. 18 at the Racquet Club. After a brief social period, Bruce
Lee, ’71, chapter president, called the meeting to order, and Wick
Hollingshead, ’61, offered a blessing. Assistant Dean of the
College Pamela Simpson spoke on the quality of education at
Washington and Lee and the challenges of teaching at the
University. She then answered questions from the audience. Buddy
Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary, also represented the
University. Among the distinguished guests were James M.
Ballengee, ’48L, new rector of the Board of Trustees, and Isadore
M. Scott, ’48L, trustee.

 

 

CHARLESTON—At chapter organizational meeting are Robert A. Richards,
58; Richard W. Salmons, ’51; and Thomas W. Alexander, ’55.

ee

CHARLESTON—Pleased to have a Charleston chapter are Richard W. Salmons
Jr., ’81; Edward C. Morrison, ’80; James W. McClintock IV, ’78; and W.
Howell Morrison, ’76.

PHILADELPHIA—Pamela Simpson, assistant dean of the College, speaks at
luncheon. At head table are Wick Hollingshead, ’61, and Bruce Lee, ’71,
chapter president.

3]

Chapter News

 

 

NEW YORK—At annual dinner are Clifford B Sondock, ’79; Jeffrey A.

Buntrock, ’81; Christopher T. Porter, ’80; and Christopher B. Burnham, ’80. NEW YORK—At annual meeting are Dr. Robert D. McMullen Jr., 69; Joseph
Eisenberg, ’51; Mrs. Ralph W. Schenkel and Ralph Schenkel, ’68; and David
D. Gordon, ’69.

s

 

RN

NEW YORK—Author Tom Wolfe, ’51, addresses the annual W&L dinner meeting
at the Union Club.

 

NEW YORK. The chapter held its annual dinner meeting at the 7)

Union Club in Mate ws al 13. The p PINCIP al sp eaker _ LYNCHBURG—Enjoying Christmas dance are Mosby Perrow, ’70L, and his
author Tom Wolfe, ’51, appearing at the meeting following critical wife, Holly, left; and Marc Schewel, ’69, right, and his wife, Betty.

acclaim of his most recent book and an appearance on the TV show
60 Minutes the evening before. The audience was very receptive to
his observations, phrased as humorously as ever, on the changing
American scene. His remarks evoked laughter as well as some
serious reflection. Chapter President Paul Perkins, ’74, presided and
was re-elected president for the coming year during a brief business
session. Among the special guests he introduced were University
Trustee Ross Millhiser and Mrs. Millhiser; President Robert E. R.
Huntley; Miss Ruth Parmly, a distinguished benefactor of the
University; William Watt, dean of the College; Robert Fure,
director of summer programs; and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, and Mrs. Atkins.

 

LYNCHBURG. The Christmas season arrived for Washington
and Lee alumni and their friends on Dec. 11 when the Lynchburg
chapter held its annual Christmas dance at the Elk’s Club. Music
was provided by the ‘*Reflections.’’ As always, there was a large | _
crowd present in formal dress and other holiday finery, enjoying the LYNCHBURG—Celebrating the holiday season are Frank Morrison, ’67, ’70L;
music and the company of friends of all ages. Norwood Morrison, ’70; Stuart Fauber, ’70, and his wife, Beth.

32

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00. |

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

1924

ALBERT MAURICE PICKUS has been befriended by
presidents, governors, movie moguls and movie stars,
but is best known for what he has done in and for his
town of Stratford, Conn. He has served as local
chairman of a half dozen or more charities, directed
Stratford’s civil defense program for 25 years, helped
organize the American Shakespeare Theater and the
Chamber of Commerce and a long list of other com-
munity activities. Pickus recently retired after 55
years as owner of the Stratford movie theater. He is
an active member of the Theater Owners of America
and was former president of the association. Through
his affiliations with TOA, Pickus met many film
stars, including John Wayne and Doris Day. He
presented the top award of the Theater Owners of
America to both of them. Pickus ventured into the
real estate business in 1947 and became prominent in
his work with several residential developments and
shopping centers. Since his retirement, Pickus still
keeps regular hours in his cluttered office, amid
numerous awards, citations, and photographs that
bear testimony to his long years of community serv-
ice.

1928

Dr. PAUL S. HILL, has practiced general surgery in
Harrisonburg, Va., since 1934. He was a major in the
Army Medical Corps during World War II. Retired
since 1975, Hill lives on a farm at Penn Laird, Va.

1929

FRANK T. PARKER JR. of Gulfport, Fla., formerly of
Mobile, Ala., has presented a Middleton family heir-
loom cowrie shell snuff box to the Middleton Place
Foundation in Charleston, S.C. Parker is a direct
descendant of Henry Middleton, a president of the
first Continental Congress. Middleton’s Plantation,
Middleton Place on the Ashley, is a Registered Na-
tional Historic Landmark and the site of America’s
oldest landscaped gardens.

Dr. O. Norris SMITH retired in September 1981
from the practice of internal medicine in Greensboro,
N.C.

1932

W. BayLis HIGHTOWER, after 30 years as owner and
manager of a men’s clothing business, has now or-
ganized a local newspaper in Athens, Ala.

JACK G. MaRKS retired March 31, 1980, from the
Superior Court of Arizona in Pima County at Tucson.
He served as court commissioner from 1961 to 1964
and since 1965 had been judge.

1935

DUNCAN McDavi of Pensacola, Fla., retired in 1979
from the Newport division of Reichold Chemicals
and now serves the company as a consultant in the
rubber chemical area.

33

   

1937
KELLEY E. REED JR. is president of the Reed-Shannon
Insurance Agency in Charleston, W.Va. He is also an
officer of the Kelley-Green Land Co. and an account
executive with Wheat First Securities.

1938

BRENT REMSBURG, the town manager for Abingdon,
Va., and a veteran of 46 years in public service
employment, has been designated a Paul Harris Fellow
by the Abingdon Rotary Club. Remsburg began as
town manager in 1972 after holding similar positions
in Vienna and Herndon, Va.

J. Hiram SMITH, who retired in May 1977 from thé
U.S. Geological Survey, was employed by the Ken-
tucky Geological Survey from 1977 until 1981. He
has retired again and returned to Somerset, Ky.,
where he is engaged as a private consulting geologist.

WILLIAM SAXBY TAVEL is an associate with the real
estate firm of Edwin M. Watson Jr. in Naples, Fla.

1939

HuGu P. Avery, director of institutional services at
the University of Houston at Clear Lake City, is the
recipient of the Donald E. Dickason Award, the high-
est honor presented by the College and University
Personnel Association. The award honors outstanding
and distinguished leadership and service in the field
of university personnel administration. Avery was
honored for establishing the organization’s chapter
approach and for being first editor of Personnelite,
the organization’s weekly publication. He is co-author
of Labor Relations in Higher Education. Avery has
conducted many seminars on human resource man-
agement and related subjects. Prior to his position at
the university, he was with Stevens Institute of Tech-
nology.

Davip MCNISsH retired in November 1981 in Fort
Myers, Fla. After moving to Fort Myers in 1968, he
joined the First National Bank as a vice president and
at retirement was senior vice president of marketing
of the National Trust Co., also a subsidiary of South-
west Florida Banks, Inc.

1940

ROLAND S. (POPIE) FREEMAN retired in February
1981 after 43 years in the lumber and building supply
business. He continues to do a small amount of con-
sulting work and a large amount of golfing.

1944

EDWARD F. DEVOL, retired managing editor of the
Press Service of the U.S. Information Agency, is
now teaching advanced composition at the University
of Maryland. He lives in Silver Spring, Md.

Dr. HAvEN W. MANKIN, with a group of seven
professionals, is practicing diagnostic radiology in
Oklahoma City, Okla.

34

Thomas, ’38.

Dr. FREDERICK B. ROwE, professor of psychology at
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, is the new
president-elect of the Virginia Psychological Asso-
ciation. A member of the board of directors of the
Lynchburg Mental Health Association, Rowe is also
part of the Mental Health Consultation System at
Lynchburg General Hospital. He periodically travels
to Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland for short
tours of duty as an Air Force Reserve clinical psy-
chologist.

1945

FRANK MARKOE Jr., has been appointed to a new
executive position at the New York Hospital—Cor-
nell Medical Center with responsibility for the center’s
development and public affairs activities. He will be
the executive director of development and public
affairs. Markoe joined Warner-Lambert in 1958,
serving in a succession of high-level positions, in-
cluding general counsel and executive vice president.
He currently serves as a member of the Board of
International Broadcasting, a President-appointed and
Senate-confirmed position. The Board of Interna-
tional Broadcasting is the oversight agency for Radio
Free Europe and Radio Liberty. Additionally, Markoe
has served as a director of the New Jersey State
Chamber of Commerce, the Foundation of the College
of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, and the
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. He cur-
rently serves as president of the New Jersey Ballet
Co.

1946

WILLIAM A. WARDE, after 22 years with the U.S.
Navy as a pilot, retired in 1965 and entered the life
insurance business. He lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

1948

TRENT D. SIPLE retired in 1977 after 29 years with
the F.B.I. He lives in Columbia, S.C.

1949

ROBERT L. ADAMS, after 36 years with the federal
government, retired Oct. 3, 1981. His last assignment
was with the Office of Education. He lives in Ma-
nassas, Va.

W. D. Bain Jr. has been named vice president and
general manager of McKesson Envirosystems, one of
the two operating entities of McKesson Chemical Co.
of San Francisco. McKesson, a Foremost-McKesson
Co., is the largest distributor of industrial chemicals
in the country. Bain was formerly president of More-
land Chemical Co. and then Moreland-McKesson
after its merger in 1978. The Inland Chemical Corp.
will be integrated into McKesson Envirosystems upon
the closing of the Inland acquisition.

1950

DABNEY CHAPMAN frequently travels abroad as an
inspector with the Foreign Service of U.S. Interna-
tional Communication Agency. He lives in Reston,
Va.

W&L Trustee Edgar F. Shannon Jr. (left), ’39,
received an honorary degree in May from the
University of Hartford. Sharing the occasion with
him were Ken Van De Water, ’41; Arthur W.
McCain Jr., ’56; and W&L Trustee Calvert

DONALD A. Ma.Lno has been practicing law in Mem-
phis for 20 years with the firm of Heiskell, Donelson,
Bearman, Adams, Williams & Kirsch. He is also
chief negotiator for the Memphis Light, Gas & Water
Division with the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp. to obtain
financing for a large coal gasification plant to be built
in Memphis.

J. ART Woop Jr., after 18 years as director of member
information for the U.S. Independent Telephone
Association, has formed, with a partner, John Stam-
pone, a new organization—Stam-Wood Produc-
tions—to meet the needs of businesses, government
and associations with creative editorial cartoons, art
work and other graphic services. He continues to do
cartoons for the Farm Bureau News. Wood’s first
love is cartooning and his work has appeared in such
major publications as Time, Newsweek, U.S. News &
World Report, Saturday Review of Literature and
Harpers. He was a contributing cartoonist for the
Washington Star, editorial cartoonist for the Rich-
mond News Leader, and chief editorial cartoonist for
the Pittsburgh Press. His offices are in Rockville,
Md.

1951

FREDERICK G. UHLMANN, senior vice president of
Drexel Burnham and Co., has been re-elected vice
president of the Illinois Society for the Prevention of
Blindness. Uhlmann is a member of the Chicago
Board of Trade, where he also served as chairman
and director. Prior to his position with Drexel Burn-
ham, he was secretary and director of Uhlmann Grain
Co., and Uhlmann and Co., Inc. Uhlmann is also on ~
the board of directors of the Highland Park Hospital
and the Northwestern University Association. Uhl-
mann and his wife, Virginia, have two sons and three
daughters and the family lives in Highland Park, Ill.

1952

HeLmut Huser, after 16 years in Guatemala, has
left that country because of political problems there
and is now living in Houston, Texas, with his wife
and two sons. Since July 1981 he has been associated
with Pileco, Inc., a German concern which distri-
butes pile driving and diesel hammers in the United
States.

Dr. HENRY I. WILLETT Jr., former president of
Longwood College in Farmville, Va., is now a senior
lecturer at Old Dominion University in Norfolk.

1953

SAMUEL K. PATTON is currently a senior engineer at
the IBM data systems division laboratory in Pough-
keepsie, N.Y. He also enjoys being a guest lecturer
on computer topics at various schools and universi-
ties. He serves as a trustee of the local library.

1955

Dr. H. CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER III of Roanoke,
Va., is the new president of the Medical Society of
Virginia. Alexander has been practicing in Roanoke

 

   

H. Huber, ’52

H. P. Avery, ’39

since 1963 as a specialist in internal medicine and
rheumatology. He worked at the University of Ala-
bama Medical Center in Birmingham and from 1961
to 1964 served in the U.S. Air Force in England as
chief of medical services. Alexander is an avid foot-
ball fan and has been probing the effect of heat
exhaustion on high school athletes when they go into
early practice in the hot days of August.

JOHN E. HUGHES received his Chartered Life Under-
writers diploma on Oct. 30, 1981. He is an agent in
Lexington, Va., for the Equitable Life Assurance
Society.

1956

EDGAR L. GROVE, after operating a retail and whole-
sale sporting goods business in Lancaster, Pa., for
nearly 16 years, has sold that business. He expects to
find new businesses to conquer in the near future.

JAMIE M. Howe is owner and president of KFFA
radio in Helena, Ark.

Lucius E. JOHNSON, after 12 years with Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in North Carolina, is now in
Roanoke, Va., as a self-employed business con-
sultant.

JOHN K. Oasrt has become vice president of the Bank
of Suffolk, Va. He lives in Portsmouth.

FREDERICK P. STAMP JR. of Wheeling, W.Va., has
been elected president of the West Virginia Bar
Association. A partner in the law firm of Schrader,
Stamp, Byrd, Byrum, Johnson and Companion, he
was president of the West Virginia Board of Regents
in 1973-74 and served in the state Legislature from
1966-1970. Stamp is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Security National Bank and Trust Co., a
recipient of the Wheeling Jaycees Distinguished
Service Award, and a director of the Y.M.C.A., the
Wheeling Symphony Society and Davis & Elkins
College.

Dr. HEADLEY S. WHITE JR., is director of quality
assurance for the Allentown and Sacred Heart Hospi-
tal Center. He lives in Coopersburg, Pa., and is alsoa
co-host of the Public Broadcasting System’s medical
show On Call.

1957

LAWRENCE A. ATLER resigned July 1, 1981, from
the Denver firm of Atler, Zall and Haligman after 21
years of practicing law. He has retained only a few
select clients and devotes the major portion of his
time to the development of restaurants, real estate
_ projects, and a new commercial bank, Cherry Creek
State Bank, of which he is chairman. Atler owns and
operates a large English Tudor mansion restaurant,
which overlooks a golf course, the Front Range and
downtown Denver. He expects to relocate Leo’s Res-
taurant and establish another restaurant in downtown
Denver. His wife, the former Marilyn Van Derbur,
continues to market and distribute educational and
business films through her own company.

 

   

J. E. Hughes, 55

Capt. JAMES (Skip) Law, recently completed a
Washington assignment and has now assumed duties
as commanding officer, Service School Command,
at the Naval Training Center in Orlando, Fla. The
mission of the school is to provide specialized techni-
cal training for an average on-board count of 1,700
officers and enlisted personnel. The school command
staff consists of 289 military and civilian personnel.
Law resides in Wekiva Club Estates, outside Orlando,
with his wife, Betty, and two children, Jimmy, and
Cindi.

1958

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR. has been re-elected treasurer

of the Appalachian Community Development Asso-
ciation. He also serves as Staff Judge Advocate for

the 830th U.S. Army Reserve Command. He lives in
Cincinnati, Ohio.

WILLIAM A. TOWLER, formerly president and chief
operating officer of American First Corp. in Okla-
homa City, Okla., has moved back to Fort Worth,
Texas, where he is president of Towler and Associ-
ates, Inc., a management, planning, and financial
consulting firm. The firm will be headquartered in
Fort Worth with a branch office in Oklahoma City.
Towler is a lecturer and the author of a syndicated
weekly business column, Managing for Success. He
is a member of the Association of Management Con-
sultants.

1960

F. JOHN HERRMANN has been made a principal in

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., the names and addresses of the

 

Wayne D. McGrew, ’52
Chairman

Wall, Patterson,

McGrew & Hamilton

229 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30303

Room 5000

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill four seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may _ submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination for the offices to be

 

Name Your Candidate

 

Stanley A. Walton III, 62, ’65L
Winston & Strawn
One First National Plaza,

Chicago, Ill. 60670

Nominating Committee for 1981-82 are
listed below:

Richard R. Warren, ’57
Consolidated Appraisal Co. Inc.
Suite 1464

60 East 42nd Street

New York, N.Y. 10017

filled. Alumni may send names directly
to any member of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the
Executive Secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation at the University.

The committee will close its report on
March 26, 1982, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 8, 1982.

 

 

35

Class Notes

Mallard, Brogdon and Associates, Inc., registered
investment advisors in Richmond.

RAYMOND E. WOOLDRIDGE has been elected presi-
dent and chief operating officer of Eppler, Guerin &
Turner, Inc., an investment banking firm in Dallas
and Houston, Texas. EGT, a member of the New
York, American, Midwest and Pacific Stock Ex-
changes, is headquartered in Dallas with 26 offices in
21 principal Texas cities and Oklahoma City, Okla.

1961

RoBertT J. O’BRIEN received a master’s degree in
journalism from Northwestern University in 1962. In
1980 he left his job as news editor of the Baptist Press
and became overseas news coordinator for the South-
ern Baptist Convention Foreign Mission Board. In
the summer of 1982 he expects to be assigned to
Nairobi, Kenya, for two years, to set up a news and
communication operation to cover Eastern and
Southern Africa. O’Brien won five communication
awards in 1981 including the Arthur Davenport Award
from the Baptist Public Relations Association.
O’Brien received his master’s in religious education
from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in
Louisville, Ky.

Epson B. Ops IV, formerly with the National Bank
of Washington, D.C., is now in Boston, Mass., as
administrative vice president for David R. Babson &
Co., Inc., an investment counseling firm. He and his
wife, Carol, have two daughters and a son.

J. Davip WHITE has started his own sales agency
specializing in plastics and coatings. He sells his
products and services to the automotive, appliance,
and plumbing markets.

1962

THOMAS L. FEAZELL has been named general counsel
of Ashland Oil Co., Inc. He joined Ashland in 1965
as staff attorney. He was named senior attorney in
1974 and general attorney two years later. In 1978 he
became assistant general counsel and then associate
general counsel in 1979. He has been vice president
of law since 1980. He and his wife, Gigi, have three
children.

EDWARD P. Hosss, a senior vice president of Albert
B. Ashforth, Inc., a real estate corporation in New
York and Connecticut, is now with the firm’s Stam-
ford, Conn., office.

ALAN M. McLeEop is a professor of Teacher Education
at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond,
Va. He also serves as editor of Virginia English
Bulletin. |

1963

RODGER W. FAUBER has been named president and
chief operating officer of Central Fidelity Bank in
Lynchburg, Va., effective Jan. 1, 1982. Fauber, for-
merly vice president and chief administrative officer,
joined Central Fidelity in 1966.

36

   

R. J. O’Brien, ’61

JONATHAN N. GILLETT has been appointed by Grolier
Inc., to the position of president of Franklin Watts,
Inc., a New York publisher of adult and juvenile
books and college textbooks.

WARREN B. HUGHES JR. owns a marketing and ad-
vertising firm, Hughes Marketing Communications,
located in Philadelphia, Pa.

RoBert A. YOUNG III, president of Arkansas Best
Corp. in Fort Smith, Ark., has been elected president
of the Fort Smith Chamber of Commerce.

1964

ALFRED E. ECKES of Virginia has become a member
of the United States International Trade Commission
for a term expiring June 1990. Eckes, an economic
historian and former executive director of the House
Republican Conference, was confirmed by the Senate
in September 1981. After graduating magna cum
laude from W&L, Eckes held a Fulbright Fellowship
in international economics at Christ’s College, Uni-
versity of Cambridge. He continued his study at
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts Uni-
versity where he received an M.A. in international
relations in 1966. In 1969 he completed his Ph.D. in
American history at the University of Texas. From
1969 to 1978 Eckes was a professor of history at Ohio
State University. He served three years as a Foreign
Service Officer. His legislative experience began as
an assistant to Ohio representative Samuel L. Devine.
From 1979 to 1981, Eckes was executive director of
the House Republican Conference. He is the author
of numerous articles.

JOHN D. Eure, an attorney in Suffolk, Va., is serving
as president of the chamber of commerce.

BARRY A. GREENE was recently elected president
and chief executive officer of Globman’s Inc., a
chain of three department stores in Virginia and North
Carolina. Greene is completing his second term on
the Martinsville, Va., City Council and has served as
mayor of Martinsville since July 1980.

JAMES W. HA_ey Jr. has been appointed substitute
judge of the General District Court and Juvenile Do-
mestic Relations Court for the 15th Judicial Circuit of
Virginia. He is a partner in the Fredericksburg law
firm of Whitticar, Sokol, Ledbetter and Haley.

Gorpbon B. Gay finished 11th in the 1981 National
Water Ski Championships in DuQuoin, Ill. He is an
attorney in Fredericksburg, Va.

D. ByrD GwInNn is vice president and mid-Atlantic
regional manager of Chubb & Sons, Inc., in Philadel-
phia, Pa. He and his wife, Molly, have two sons and
the family lives in Haverford. They formerly lived in
Houston.

DouGias D. HAGESTAD was recently promoted to
vice president of car management for the Illinois

   

L. W. Miller, ’66

Central Gulf Railroad, headquartered in Chicago.
Hagestad and his wife, Dorothy, have three sons and
the family lives in Homewood, III.

STEPHEN W. RIDEOUT is now a partner in the Alex-
andria, Va., law firm of Howard, Stevens, Cake,
Rhoades and Howard.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. MICHEL MARCOUxX, a
daughter, Fontaine Henriette, on Aug. 29, 1981, in
Washington, D.C. Marcoux is a partner in the law
firm of Bruder and Gentile, specialists in natural gas
pipeline and electric utility regulatory matters.

Lewis N. MILLER JR. has been promoted by the
board of directors of Central Fidelity Bank to the
position of executive vice president and chief ad-
ministrative officer. Miller joined the bank in 1972,
and, after several administrative promotions, was
named chief financial officer in November 1979. He
lives in Richmond, Va.

1967

BIRTH: WALTER and KAREN BorDa, ason, Andrew
Noel Griffith Borda, on Sept. 21, 1981, in Mel-
bourne, Australia. Borda was formerly with Ford
Motor Co. in Dearborn, Mich.

JAMES D. AwabD is president of BMI Capital, a New
York money management firm.

RICHARD D. BRADFORD is chairman of the U.S.
Olympic Committee drive in West Virginia for the
1984 Olympics.

THE REv. THomas C. Davis III received his Ph.D. in
religious studies from the University of Pittsburgh in
April 1981. In May he made a Presbyterian mission
trip to Zaire. Davis now serves as Presbyterian chap-
lain and adjunct professor of religion at the University
of Miami.

C. EDWARD RUSSELL JR., a partner with the Norfolk,
Va., law firm of Canoles, Mastracco, Martone, Barr
and Russell, has been elected to a four-year term on
the Portsmouth General Hospital board of directors.

1968
MARRIAGE: A. RODNEY BorEN Jr. and Susan S.
Wilkinson on Nov. 21, 1981, in Minneapolis, Minn.
He is vice president for investment services with
Northwestern National Bank. They live in Minne-
apolis.

Dr. JAMES W. LarGE, formerly of Grosse Point,
Mich., has relocated his surgical practice to the Doc-
tor’s Clinic in Vero Beach, Fla.

S. GATES SHAW was ordained an Episcopal priest in
the Diocese of Alabama on Oct. 18, 1981. A graduate
from the General Theological Seminary, he serves
the church as a non-stipendiary clergyman. Shaw is
also vice president of Shaw Warehouse Co., a distri-

 

bution and trucking firm. He is married to the former
Jutta von Buchholtz of West Germany and the couple
have two daughters, Westcott, and Elizabeth.

STEPHEN W. RIDEOUT (See 1965.)

MARRIAGE: ALAN H. Cooper and Gray Hackney
Woodard on Aug. 8, 1981, in Richmond, Va. Cooper
is a reporter for the Richmond News Leader.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBertT E. PRICE, a son,
William Embry, on Sept. 3, 1981, in Houston, Texas.
Price practices general civil law with the firm of
Lockett, Embry, Thomas and Price.

ROBERT A. MOSELLE is involved with the production
and syndication of a new musical and entertainment
show from the On Broadway Theatre in San Fran-
CISCO.

1970
MARRIAGE: Bruce A. MEYERS and Carol Yusem
on July 4, 1981. The couple lives in Mesa, Ariz.,
where Meyers is employed by the Arizona State De-
partment of Transportation.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. VAUGHAN GRIFFIN JR., a
son, T. V. Garrett, on March 28, 1981, in Rutland,
Vt. Griffin is a partner in the Rutland law firm of
Griffin and Griffin, Ltd. The family lives in Shrews-
bury, Vt.

THE REV. EDWARD C. CHAPMAN, rector since 1978
of Christ Episcopal Church in Marion, Va., was
elected to chair the southwestern Virginia deputation
to the 1982 general convention of the Episcopal
Church.

H. ANTHONY GLEASON is president of a large com-
mercial real estate firm in New York.

Norwoop O. Morrison, formerly in Charleston,
W.Va., with the Cecil I. Walker Machinery Co., has
returned to Lynchburg, Va., and is the personnel
manager for C. B. Fleet Co., a Lynchburg-based
pharmaceutical manufacturer. He and his wife,
Susan, have two daughters and one son.

RICHARD D. BRADFORD (See 1967.)

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBErT J. JANTZEN JR., a
son, Matthew McMahon, on June 8, 1981, in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio. After seven years with Procter and
Gamble, Jantzen is moving to Orlando, Fla., as cen-
tral Florida area manager of Pepsi Cola’s premix
division.

STEVEN L. HAWLEY is in Uganda with UNICEF (the
United Nations Children’s Fund). He is a project
officer serving as a liaison with the Uganda water
development department and is responsible for bare-
hole rehabilitation, well, dam and spring protection.

Hawley lives in Soroti and is working primarily in the
Karamoja region.

P72
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Davip L. BROOKS, a son,
Jason David, on Sept. 30, 1981. They live in Glen-
side, Pa. Brooks works in the buyers’ department for
Oriental rugs at John Wanamaker’s in Philadelphia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD B. CARTWRIGHT, a
son, Mark Brozier, on Sept. 20, 1981, in Columbia,
Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL E. RILEY, a daugh-
ter, Ann Sawyer, on Aug. 22, 1981, in Roanoke, Va.

RONALD W. AsraMs is senior research officer at the
Percy Fitzpatrick Institute of the University of Cape-
town. He and his wife, Marilyn, live in Kirstenhof,
Capetown, South Africa. Abrams’ varied activities
take him to Antarctica and throughout Africa to study
pelagic birds and marine life.

WILLIAM T. ANDERSON, a civilian attorney in the
judge advocate general division of the U.S. Marine
Corps Headquarters in Washington, D.C., attended
the Law of War Course sponsored by the International
Institute of Humanities Law at the Villa Nobel in San
Remo, Italy, during September 1981. Anderson was
a Defense Department delegate to the NATO political
committee meeting in Brussels to discuss the 1977
additional protocols to the 1949 Geneva Conventions
for the protection of war victims.

PATRICK O’ BRIEN BUFORD has become a member of
the Richmond, Va., law firm of Mustian, Parker,
Tavenner and Buford.

1973
MARRIAGE: PETER DUN Grover and Julia Armour
Gamble on Nov. 28, 1981, in St. Stephen’s Episcopal
Church in Richmond, Va. The couple will live in
Washington, D.C., where Grover is employed by
C. G. Sloan Co., Inc., and Mrs. Grover is on the staff
of National Geographic.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GeorGe H. HARDER III, a
son, John Toby, on Aug. 20, 1981. Harder has been
appointed vice president of corporate planning and
development for Chronicle Broadcasting Co. in San
Francisco, Calif. He had been in Washington as
minority counsel to the House of Representatives
Subcommittee on Communications.

CHARLES W. DUNN has been made a partner in the
Nashville, Tenn., law firm of Donelson, Stokes and
Bartholomew. His specialty is tax-exempt municipal
finance.

Lr. CmMpr. CLYDE M. HENKEL is the legal officer at
the Coast Guard Training Center in Alameda, Calif.

BLAINE R. KEMETHER has left Playboy, Inc., to
accept a postion as security officer for Scanticon-

Princeton, a $40-million dollar hotel and executive
conference center in Princeton, N.J.

1974
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davib Zimri CAUBLE III, a
son, Charles Hudson, on Sept. 16, 1981, in La
Grange, Ga. He joins an older brother, David Zimri
IV, born Nov. 30, 1978.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL CHAMBLISS, a
daughter, Jane Alligood, on Oct. 29, 1981. Chambliss
is employed by the Mason Corp., a distributor of
aluminum building products, in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. DaviD M. SHAPIRO, a daugh-
ter, Erica Victoria, on Oct. 6, 1981, in Richmond,
Va. Shapiro is a partner in the newly formed Rich-
mond law firm of Freed and Shapiro.

Gary M. ARTHUR is manager of the Seabury Book-
stores located in the General Theological Seminary
and the Episcopal Church Center in New York City.

Dr. DANIEL J. DAVID is a faculty member at the Air
Force Regional Hospital at Carswell Air Force Base
in Texas. He recently completed a family practice
residency at Roanoke Memorial Hospital. David lives
with his wife, Rita, and 2-year-old daughter, Kristin,
in Fort Worth.

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL P. BAGLEY, a son,
Timothy Bradford, on Oct. 24, 1981. Bagley earned
his LL.M. in taxation at Boston University in June
and is a tax attorney for the Boston office of Ernst and
Whinney. They live in Manchester, N.H., with an-
other son, 3-year-old Matthew.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MARTIN A. KEMPE, a Son,
Charles Alexander, on Nov. 4, 1981, in Richmond,
Va. Kempe is manager and a pilot for Corporate
Executives Jet Air Charter Service at Byrd Field in
Richmond. :

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. MOZINGO, a daugh-
ter, Ashley Dodson, on Sept. 2, 1980, in Jackson,
Miss. After two years as assistant city attorney for
Jackson, Mozingo has joined the law firm of Stennett,
Wilkinson and Ward.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomMas K. WOTRING, a
daughter, Kathryn Thompson, on May 5, 1981, in
Arlington, Va. Wotring is an associate in the Wash-
ington, D.C., law firm of Morgan, Lewis and
Bockius.

Davip H. MATHEWS received his M.B.A. degree
from the University of North Carolina in May 1981.
He is now with Ernst & Whinney, an auditing firm in
Richmond, Va.

STEVEN W. PURTRELL has been commissioned a
captain in the Army JAG Corps and will be stationed
in Fort Monmouth, N.J. He had been the assistant
public defender in Tioga County, Pa.

37

Class Notes

1976

BRETT R. BURKHART earned his master’s degree
from the University of Virginia School of Architecture
in May 1981. He works for Spigel, Herman, Chap-
man, Ltd., architects and engineers in Norfolk, Va.

J. ARTHUR Woon III, after graduation from Columbia
Technological Seminary in Atlanta, Ga., was ordained
a Presbyterian minister last summer. He is now asso-
ciate pastor of Trinity Presbyterian Church in Jackson,
Miss.

1977
MARRIAGE: WALTER D. KELLEY JR. and Ann Kirk-
land Molloy on June 20, 1981. Kelley is a law clerk to
Judge Ellsworth A. Van Graafeiland of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in
Rochester, N.Y. Mrs. Kelley is a third-year law
student at Washington and Lee.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. LOWELL SULLIVAN, a
daughter, Jessica Lindsay, on Dec. 31, 1980. Sullivan
has recently been promoted to senior product manager
at General Battery Corp. in Reading, Pa.

ROBERT A. CARPENTER received his LL.M. degree in
the graduate tax program at the Boston University
School of Law in May 1981. He lives in Old West-
bury, N.Y.

PauL A. MoreELLa received his M.F.A. degree in
acting from Catholic University and is appearing as
Acaste in the Delaware Theatre Company’s produc-
tion of The Misanthrope by Moliere. He is scheduled
to play the lead in the Studio Theatre’s production of
Romeo and Juliet in Washington, D.C. Morella also
plays the part of Moon Shaw in MGM’s forthcoming
film Diner.

JAMES D. UTTERBACK is in the human resource
planning division of General Electric Medical Sys-
tems in Milwaukee, Wis.

In September 1981, LEwis R. WINDHAM II was pro-
moted to president of Magic Gas Co., Inc., St. Clair
Gas Co., Inc., and Windham Distribution Co., Inc.,
in Springville, Ala. During the summer he attended
the European LP Gas Congress in London and toured
propane automotive carburation facilities in the
Netherlands.

WATSON H. WRIGHT has been promoted to assistant
vice president at Wheat First Securities, Inc., in
Richmond, Va. He joined the Petersburg, Va., office
of Wheat in 1977 and recently transferred to the
options strategy department in Richmond.

1978
MARRIAGE: Ray S. CorFey Jr. and Delores R.
Lewis, on Oct. 2, 1981, in Lancaster, Pa. They live
in Denver, Pa. Coffey is employed by the Gerber-
Moyer Co. in Ephrata.

MARRIAGE: Harry A. MAZAHERI and Anne L.
38

Wentling on June 20, 1981, in Lancaster, Pa. Maza-
heri graduated from the Dickinson School of Law in
June and is an associate with the Lancaster law firm
of Blakinger, Grove and Chillas. Charles B. Grove
Jr., °52, is a partner in the firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. HERMAN, a daughter,
Kristin Nicole, on Jan. 13, 1980. Herman received
his master of divinity degree from Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary in June 1981. He is a vicar at Christ
Lutheran Church in Fairfax, Va., until September of
1982, when he will be called to the ordained ministry.

KARL G. BAKER was recognized in the September
1981 issue of Online, the house journal of the Harris
Corp. for his successful graduate studies. He is an
inventory auditor at Harris’ Elyria, Ohio, plant. In his
free time, he earned a M.B.A. from Baldwin-Wallace
College and is now pursuing a law degree at Cleve-
land State University.

WILLIAM O. CRANSHAW is working for the First
National Bank of Chicago.

ERIK S. GREENBAUM is a first-year M.B.A. student at
the College of William and Mary. He is living in
Williamsburg, Va.

THEODORE W. HISssey is an assistant manager with
the Pepsi Cola Co. in Purchase, N.Y. He earned a
M.B.A. in marketing and finance from the Graduate
School of Management at Northwestern University.
Hissey worked in marketing for Gino’s, Inc., in King
of Prussia, Pa., before joining Pepsi in October 1981.
He lives in Stamford, Conn.

JONATHAN R. MorkRIS is an associate with the New
York law firm of Seward and Kissel.

ANNE RIORDAN, who was an exchange student from
Sweet Briar College, has been admitted to the Wis-
consin Bar Association. She is currently at the Uni-

  
     

. aloe a
Up : Abe, A ah af)
iy. , ene Ae ERY ,
Any . i
A

     

,
t

= t
A

 

NY
i

Drawing by S. Preston Lewis, ’85

versity of Florida pursuing a master’s of law in taxa-
tion.

STEPHEN P. RODGERS earned his master’s degree in
economics from the University of Virginia in May
1980. During the past year he worked with young
people in a nondenominational Christian Mission in
Bolivia. In January 1982, Rodgers returned to the
University of Virginia to begin work on his doctorate
in economics.

JEFFREY M. SONE is an associate with the Dallas law
firm of Crutcher, Hull, Ramsey and Jordan.

MICHAEL M. M. WALLIS is an associate specializing
in trial work with the law firm of Wolfe, Kirschen-
baum, Caruso, Mosley and Kabboard in Cocoa
Beach, Fla. He graduated from law school at Stetson
University in May 1981.

ROLAND B. WALTERS spent two years in Okinawa as
an intelligence officer with the 3rd Marine Division.
He is now stationed in Hawaii with the Ist Marine
Brigade.

ROBERTSON H. WENDT JR. graduated from the Uni-
versity of South Carolina Law School and was ad-
mitted to the South Carolina Bar in November. He is
a law clerk for Judge Klyde Robinson of the circuit
court in Charleston.

1979

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW L. RADCLIFFE, a
son, Andrew L. Radcliffe Jr., on Sept. 1, 1981.
Radcliffe has recently been promoted to sales repre-
sentative for Ryan Homes, Inc., in Montgomery
County, Md.

L. Ross BUCKNER III is director of employee relations
for the offshore engineering division of the Mobil
Research and Development Corp. His promotion at
Mobil has moved him from Princeton, N.J., to Dallas,
Texas.

M. Gray COLEMAN is in his second year at the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School. His Note has been
accepted for publication by the Virginia Law Review
for their April issue. This summer, he will be a clerk
at White & Case in New York City.

ROBERT M. BURKHOLDER JR. joined the Navy in
April 1981 with the rank of ensign and completed
officer indoctrination school at Newport, R.I., last
fall. He is a third-year law student at American Uni-
versity and will become a JAG corps officer upon
graduation.

Classmates DOUGLAS A. ByrD and Davip A. HAMRA
are both first-year M.B.A. students at the Harvard
Business School.

DouGLas B. LANE Is a first-year M.B.A. student at
the Wharton School of the University of Pennsyl-
vania.

THomas H. McCartny is working in the media

 

department of Campbell-Mithun Advertising Agency
in Minneapolis, Minn. He also sails competitively in
Class A and C scows.

GERALD M. Ma.mno III is employed by Edgar B, a
furniture distributor. He is working out of High Point,
N.C.

JESSINE A. MONAGHAN is an associate with the law
firm of Hunton and Williams in Richmond, Va.

1980
MARRIAGE: Topp DonaLpD WOHLER and Patricia
Hope Sensabaugh on Oct. 18, 1981, in Lexington,
Va. They live in Lafayette, La., where Wohler is a
field engineer for Schlumberger Services.

RICHARD J. ALLEN Jr., a second lieutenant, is a
mortar platoon leader in the Army’s 17th Infantry at
Fort Ord, Calif.

Cy N. BAHAKEL JR. is director of radio operations for
Bahakel Broadcasting. The company owns and oper-
ates six AM and five FM radio stations in the South-
east and Midwest.

LesLrE A. COTTER Jr., formerly in Washington,
D.C.., as legislative assistant for the Honorable Floyd
Spence (R-S.C.), is now enrolled in the University of
South Carolina School of Law.

Ensign ROBERT B. EARLE completed the U.S. Navy’s
graduate school of nuclear engineering at Orlando,
Fla., in August. He is now working at the Navy
Nuclear Power Plant in West Milton, N.Y., until he
starts submarine school at Groton, Conn., in March
1982.

HOMER D. GRAHAM III is a second-year medical
student at LSU in New Orleans. !

Bret D. Lovesoy is clerking for the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Hanson, O’Brien, Birney and
Butler. He plans to complete law school at Wil-
liam and Mary in the fall of 1982.

BARKSDALE W. MCNIDER is employed by Summers
Electric in Harahan, La. He lives in Metairie.

Davip E. MEYERS is a sales representative of heavy
industrial products for P. J. Engineering Sales Co.,
in Baltimore, Md. He is also pursuing his M.B.A. in
marketing at Loyola College.

Coopers and Lybrand has transferred JosEPH E. OLIVE
from Lynchburg, Va., to their New York office.

RUSSELL B. PARMELE JR. works in Tucson, Ariz.,
with Chiva Enterprises, a home construction and
remodeling firm that also specializes in energy man-
agement consultation.

Tom SALLEY is in his second year of law school at the
University of Virginia. He shares an apartment with
classmates David Constine and Bill Paxton.

 

 

 

We AreS orry tor the unprecedented number of errors, particularly

omissions, in the computer-produced 1980 edition of the Alumni
Directory. We are aware of the problem and are negotiating a satis-
factory means of correcting it.

W. C. Washburn
Alumni Secretary

 

 

DONALD E. SwaGanrtT teaches fifth and sixth grade
math and English at the Mater Dei School in Potomac,
Md. He also is athletic director and varsity football
and baseball coach at St. Albans School in Washing-
ton, D.C.

MarRK G. WALKER works for Deloitte, Haskins and
Sells in Washington, D.C.

THOMAS A. WoRNOM is a second-year law student at
the University of Virginia.

1981
MARRIAGE: KEvIN DALE HUMPHRIES and Rhonda
Gayle Bryant on June 12, 1981, at the Church of the
Good Shepherd in Buena Vista, Va. Humphries is
employed by R. L. Persinger Accounting Firm in
Staunton, Va. Mrs. Humphries is employed by the
alumni office of W&L.

CHARLES O. ADLER was commissioned a second
lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps upon the com-
pletion of Officer Candidate School at Quantico, Va.
He will attend Basic School there before being
assigned to duty.

After spending the summer in St. Louis taking the
Missouri Bar Review and Bar Exam, CHARLES F.
BAHN Jr. is in his first semester of seminary at the
Brite Divinity School of Texas Christian University.
He is organist and choir director for Emmanuel Pres-
byterian Church near the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport
and serves as a counselor for a round-the-clock suicide
and crisis hotline.

ELIZABETH P. DEVINE, ’81L, has become associat-
ed with the law firm of Brown, Todd & Heyburn of
Louisville, Ky.

KEVIN B. Dwyer is a first-year law student at the
University of Virginia.

ROBERT W. HyDeE JR. is confidential aide and project
specialist for Commissioner Curran of the New Jersey
Board of Public Utilities.

J. BRUCE Moore, a second lieutenant, is in the armor
officer basic course at Fort Knox, Ky. He will be
stationed at Fort Bliss in El Paso, Texas, upon com-
pletion of the course.

ALEXIS V. RICHARDS has completed the commercial
lines agent school of Commercial Union Assurance
Companies in Boston. He is now an account executive
in the commercial lines division of W. D. Campbell

-and Son Insurance Agency in Lynchburg, Va.

RICHARD P. RODGERS joined the U.S. Department of
State as a foreign service officer. In January 1982, he
began duties as vice consul at the American Consulate
General in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.

Upon completion of U.S. Marine Corps Officer
Candidate School at Quantico, Va., WILLIAM B.
SHERWIN was commissioned a second lieutenant. He

must complete Basic School before receiving his first
duty station.

PHIL N. WALKER is doing tax, litigation and appellate
work for Charles Bond, P.C., in San Francisco. He
was admitted to the Florida Bar in November and is
preparing to take the California bar examination.

WALTER D. KELLEY Jr. (See 1977.)

 

In Memoriam

 

1918

ERTEL VICTOR BOwyYER, a retired vice president of
sales from the Roanoke Gas Co. died Nov. 5, 1981.
He was a member of the Masonic Lodge, Kiwanis
Club of Roanoke and Sons of the American Revolu-
tion. In 1960, the Southeastern Gas Association
named him ‘‘Gas Man of the Year.”’

EDWIN KING NELSON Jr., a prominent florist in
Tampa, Fla., until his retirement, died Oct. 23, 1981.
Nelson had been a director, captain and king of Ye
Mystic Crew of Gasparilla, president of Merrymakers
Club, national director of the Florist Telegraph De-
livery, president of the Merchants Association of
Greater Tampa, secretary and treasurer of the Tampa
Touchdown Club and a 50-year member of the
American Legion.

1921

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN, a psychiatrist and former director
of the Philadelphia State Hospital at Byberry, died
Nov. 13, 1981. Dr. Blain was born in Kashing,
China, where his parents were Presbyterian mis-
sionaries. Prior to attending W&L he attended the
McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn. He received
a medical degree from Vanderbilt University’s School
of Medicine in 1929. Dr. Blain had a private practice
in New York City before being commissioned an
officer in the U.S. Navy at the start of World War II.
During the war, he treated emotionally disturbed
seamen. In 1946, Blain became chief of psychiatric
and neurological services for the Veterans Admini-
stration in Washington, D.C. Dr. Blain was the first
medical director of the American Psychiatric Asso-
ciation and served as president of the association in
1964. Between 1960 and 1964 he headed the State of
California’s Department of Mental Hygiene. He was
appointed superintendent of Byberry in 1966. After
his retirement in 1970, Blain remained active in psy-
chiatry, devoting the rest of his life to counseling and
serving as adviser for several state mental health
programs. He was a member of the American Medical
Association, the American Psychiatric Association,
the New York Neurological Society, the Explorers
Club and the Sons of the American Revolution.

NoBLE BaAscoM HENpRIX of Miami, Fla., died Aug.
8, 1981. At W&L he was valedictorian of his class.

39

In Memoriam

Hendrix taught in the Birmingham, Ala. schools and
was principal of Paul Hayne High School and of
Woodlawn High School from 1926 to 1943. He left
Birmingham to become dean of students at the Uni-
versity of Alabama in Tuscaloosa from 1943 to 1955
and went from there to become dean of students at the
University of Miami from 1955 to 1965. After his
retirement, he accepted a special assignment as dean
of students at Moorhead State University, in Moor-
head, Minn., from 1965 to 1968. While there he
helped to establish modern student health facilities at
Moorhead and other universities in Minnesota by

working closely with the Minnesota State University ©

Board. The student health center at Moorhead State
University bears his name. Hendrix served as presi-
dent of the Birmingham Teachers Association, co-
ordinator for the Alabama National Association of
Secondary Principals and also served on the executive
council of the Commission of Colleges and Universi-
ties of the Southern Association of Colleges and
Secondary Schools.

1923

WILLIAM McCLINTIC HAMPTON, a retired Air Force
colonel, died Sept. 26, 1981, in Orlando, Fla. At the
time of his retirement from the Air Force he was
commander of the Orlando Air Force Base and had
previously commanded a number of air base groups.
Hampton then joined W. O. Daley & Co., a certified
public accounting firm in Orlando. He was very active
in the American Legion.

JOSHUA CURTIS WOMELDORF died Oct. 24, 1981, at
the Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington, Va. A
native of Rockbridge County, he was a deacon of the
Lexington Presbyterian Church and an elder emeritus.
Womeldorf was a prominent farmer in the county.

1928

JOHN OLIVER RUTHERFORD, clerk of the Baltimore
City Court for four decades until his retirement in
1978, and a fixture in Democratic political circles for
many years, died Oct. 7, 1981, in Baltimore. First
elected clerk in 1938, Rutherford won re-election
nine times. After attending Washington and Lee, he
received his law degree from the University of Mary-
land in 1929. Rutherford worked as an insurance
investigator between 1926 and 1931, when he began
the practice of law. He served as chairman or co-
chairman of the Baltimore Central Committee during
several campaigns and as general secretary to the
gubernatorial campaign of J. Millard Tawes in 1958.
Over the years, Rutherford became a central figure in
legal and political worlds contained within the Balti-
more Supreme Bench.

1931
Dr. WILLIAM T. MartTIN, a former president of
Sullins College in Bristol, Va. died Oct. 9, 1981.
Martin was president of Sullins from 1949 until re-
tirement from that position in 1972. He had been
executive vice president of Sullins from 1940 to 1945.
Prior to going to Sullins, he worked for the Tennessee
Valley Authority as an attorney. He had also been

40

chairman of the Bristol, Va., school board. He had
been president of several Bristol clubs and foundations
including the Bristol Memorial Hospital Board.

1932

RAYMOND ADE died Sept. 12, 1981, in Glenview, III.
At the time of his death he was president of Grind-
master of Kentucky in Louisville, the nation’s only
manufacturer of commercial coffee mills and peanut
grinders.

MARK EBENEZER ATWOOD, a retired textile in- ~
dustrialist in Milwaukee, Wis., died Aug. 24, 1981, ©

at his home in Douglas, Mich. He retired as a textile
executive in 1962. At one time he was a salesman
with Milwaukee Allied Mills. During World War II
he was an officer with the Coast Guard Auxillary.
Atwood was a member of the Milwaukee Yacht Club
and a member and past commodore of Saugatuck
Yacht Club.

1934

JAMES EDWIN BELSER JR., a retired attorney in
Columbia, S.C., died Sept. 9, 1981. With the excep-
tion of four years spent on active duty with the U.S.
Marine Corps, Belser had practiced law in South
Carolina since 1937. He held a law degree from the
University of South Carolina and a LL.M. degree
from Harvard.

ALFRED PHILIP Lowy, a former employee of Kayser-
Roth, Inc., in Encino, Calif., is now deceased. Kay-
ser-Roth, Inc., is a manufacturer of men’s, women’s,
and children’s ware. At one point, Lowy was em-
ployed by the Holeproof Hosiery Co. He was a police

and fire commissioner for Los Angeles, chairman of

the Board of the Los Angeles Zoo Association, chair-
man of the Board of the San Fernando Valley Child
Guidance Clinic, and active in other civic and chari-
table groups.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drawing by S. Preston Lewis, 85

1936

OrAY MADISON Davis JR., aretired supervisory civil
engineer with the federal government’s Department
of Army Corps of Engineers, died in Stephens City,
Va., on May 25, 1981. Since his retirement, he had
been a farmer in Fauquier County, Va.

1937

LANDON VICTOR (JIMMIE) BUTLER, a private invest-
ment advisor and commodities speculator, died Nov.
17, 1981, in Memphis, Tenn. He began his career as
an apprentice with Anderson-Clayton and Co., a
cotton broker. In 1940, he joined F. M. Crump and
Co. as a cotton solicitor and became a partner in that
firm. Butler later set up three commodities corpora-
tions in Missouri, later moving their offices to Mem-
phis. A native of Charleston, W.Va., Butler grew up
in Vicksburg, Miss. He moved to Memphis in 1937.
At one time during his career, Butler was on the board
of directors of the Memphis University School, the
Presbyterian Day School and LeBonheur Childrens
Hospital. He was also on the board of directors of the
YMCA.

1939
THORNTON RITENOUR CLEEK, a physician in Ashe-
boro, N.C., died Sept. 20, 1981. Dr. Cleek was a
member of the American Academy cf Family Physi-
cians, the American Geriatric Society and a diplomate
of the American Board of Family Practice.

1949

FLOYD JACKSON Davis JRr., a long-time resident of
Lynchburg, Va., died Sept. 22, 1981. He was a
retired senior trust officer for United Virginia Bank/
First National Bank. He was a World War II veteran.

1957

EDWIN DaviD GIBSON, executive vice president of
Moline Body Co., died May 24, 1981, in Moline, Ill.
The firm is a manufacturer and distributor of truck
bodies and allied equipment. Gibson was also on the
board of directors of the Moline Body Co. He was a
past president of the Iowa Association of School Bus
Body and Equipment Distributors.

1979

CECIL CARLISLE POWELL III, who received his J.D.
degree from Washington and Lee in 1979, died Oct.
15, 1981, as a result of an automobile accident in
Painter, Accomack County, Va. He worked for a law
firm in Eastville, Va.

1981

FRED TOD KETCHAM, who graduated from W&L
Law School in May, 1981, and was an attorney for
the Bureau of Child Welfare for the State of Delaware,
died Oct. 30, 1981, as the result of an automobile
accident.

|
|

 

 

Shenandoah —

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

| Shenandoah

40/3 $1.50

Wiiters of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAH:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W.S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

‘Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

Won't you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee University’s
award-winning magazine of

fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?
Published quarterly

$0.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for

[.] One year @ $5.00

My check for $ enclosed.

[|] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

‘ country does better with its resources.

—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,
who has brought such a distinctively inter-
national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the

country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue. )
—wWilliam Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review... The Southern
Review . . . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”
—“Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions, ”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

> Pd

 

/

The Alumni Magazine of At Lexingtia eee gous
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

 
 

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND W&L’S ANNUAL SPRING

CLASS REUNIONS

HONORING THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES OF 1932,
1937, 1942, 1947, 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1972, 1977, AND
THE FIVE STAR GENERALS (AII classes before 1932)

MAY 6, 7, and 8, 1982

Motel reservation forms will be mailed to these alumni in March.

