 

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 59, Number 6, November 1984

Pio Parsons, 547007 | ge Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
deticiyG Hante....).....¢2. 4.0.2... Associate Editor
Peover Fle 2... ee ee es Contributing Editor
MeO PPA ee a el Editorial Assistant
pulene Thomas... .. ee et Y. Editorial Assistant
My Patrick Finely, ’73:.00. 2 so os sic hd. Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ROTC Climbing Back.............. ccc. cccccececceccuccccecees 1
New Dean Back to His Roots............c.cccecceccecccceeces 6
Homecoming °84.............cccccccseccccecececcecccceccucceccces 10
Teaching by Osmosis..............ccccccececcecceccecceccececcee 12
Rave Reviews for Alumni Colleges................0c0c0c000- 14
Dick Miller’s 200th.............c cc cceccceccccecececsecececccceces 16
Two Trustees Elected.............cccccccccecceccccececcucecceces 18
University Report 1983-84...00...... ccc cocccccccceceeeceecs 19-50
CALC Foc a hele cece cccahiecdaccdcucsocccceccice sili. 51
Chapter NOws ei igs i yercci skis cessedccscoscccececocceccicecescs 59
Class. NOtes..1 ili ks ees bine coceccecnececccccecccceui 61
In Memoriam... cies icnkes bes cccccccccscccoceccee.ce 5g. 65
And furthermore. Geis oecies ovis co cnccccceccceccccesceee. 68

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through

the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 Should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Change in frequency pending.

Copyright © 1984, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
President,

JAMES W. MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York, N.Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

LERoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOsE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. NaT BAKER, 67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, WVa.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F, CARRERE JR., 69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. Fotsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALForD Jr., ’69, Dallas, Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio
HENRY NorTserc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyNnor, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
RIcE M. TILLEY JrR., ’58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, 52, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, 62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

CV

v

ON THE COVER: The color guard of Washington and Lee’s
Army ROTC detachment presents the colors prior to the start
of a Generals’ football game at Wilson Field. ROTC has
made an about-face since the Vietnam War era. A story on

the program begins on page 1. Photograph by W. Patrick
FAiinely, ’73.

 

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

ROTC Climbing
Back at W&L

  

Not so very many years ago
ROTC was a four-letter word on
most college campuses.

As opposition to the war in

Vietnam escalated during the
late 1960s and early 1970s,

enrollment in the Reserved

Officer Training Corps drop- :
ped dramatically throughout
the country. Washington and

Lee was no exception. Like

the ROTC programs almost

everywhere, W&L’s Army

ROTC detachment hit bottom
during the 1973-74 academic
year when only 64 students
were enrolled—a 62 percent
decline from just three years
previously. And consider this: in
1960, nine years after ROTC
was established at the Universi-
ty, 364 undergraduates were
enrolled in the program. The
drop was precipitous indeed.

Today memories of Vietnam
have faded. ROTC enrollments na-
tionwide are climbing almost as
dramatically as they fell a decade
ago, from a low of 33,220 cadets in
1974 to a 1984 level of 72,823. And
again, Washington and Lee is no
exception.

This fall 192 students are enroll-
ed in the University’s program.
W&L’s ROTC officials expect 24
students to be commissioned as sec-
ond lieutenants on commencement
morning next June. Projections are
for those numbers to continue to in-
crease aS more and more students
gravitate toward the program.

Clearly, ROTC has made an im-
pressive comeback at W&L just as it
has throughout the country.

Why the about-face?

For starters, attitudes toward the
military have unquestionably improved in @
the years since anti-Vietnam demonstra- SS
tions swept the nation’s campuses. The
mood of the country has shifted percep-

'

Vy

 
  
 

t

Rangers rappelling at Fort Bragg

Photo by Capt. Robert Ripple

ROTC Climbs Back

tibly; there has been an obvious surge in
patriotism.

But there are practical reasons for
ROTC’s return, too: increased tuition
costs coupled with the availability of
lucrative ROTC scholarships, for one;
guaranteed post-graduate employment in
an uncertain job market, for another; the
prospect of draft registration, for yet
another.

**I would like to say that patriotism is
the number one reason for the increase in
ROTC enrollments nationwide,’’ says Lt.
Col. Luke B. Ferguson, professor of
military science at W&L. ‘‘But while I do
believe many of the students become in-
terested out of a sense of duty, I must
honestly say the primary reason is prob-
ably monetary. Those scholarships are
very appealing.’’

Those scholarships were no less ap-
pealing during the mid-1970s, of course.
And yet that appeal was not strong
enough to offset the negative feelings
many students had about the military
then.

‘*Those were black days for ROTC,”’
Says Ferguson. ‘‘Vietnam was probably
the only war we’ve ever fought that was
not supported by the public.

‘“‘For me personally it was a very dif-
ficult time. I invested two years of my
life in Vietnam. I know that by the end
of my second tour, I sensed a real con-
cern over the continuing commitment of
my own soldiers in the field. It was
harder and harder. Being a loyal soldier
you did it, but there were many evenings
when you did a lot of soul-searching. In
that kind of situation, I think you can
begin to sense why the public felt as it
did.’’

Many of today’s ROTC cadets have
only the vaguest memories of Vietnam—
memories of the nightly television news
reports, perhaps, but little more. And
yet, they do sense how different the at-
mosphere is now.

‘‘Knowing what I do about the at-
mosphere back then, I can’t imagine that
I would have been in ROTC had I been
in college during Vietnam,’’ admits Bob
Tomaso, a senior from Milford, Mass.,
who is corps executive officer of the

2

aff

PO te
ig

he

   

Lt. Col. Luke Ferguson (left), professor of military

science, presents colors to senior Greg Lukanuski.

W&L detachment this year.

Adds senior Greg Lukanuski of
Mechanicsburg, Pa., the detachment
commanding officer: ‘‘I don’t want to
say I wouldn’t have ended up in ROTC
back then, but the social pressures
against going ROTC must have been
awfully strong.”

Perhaps those pressures were not as
strong at Washington and Lee as they
were elsewhere. ROTC units at some
universities were disbanded under
pressure from students and faculty. That
never happened at W&L, but there was
an ongoing debate over ROTC’s existence
at the University. That debate focused on

 

whether students ought to receive
academic credit for their participation in
the program with articles in and letters to
the Ring-tum Phi arguing both sides of
the case. e

‘“‘The main objection to ROTC among
a segment of the faculty was the fact that
students received academic credit for a
kind of study and learning that many felt
was not appropriate to the liberal arts,”’
recalls Louis W. Hodges, professor of
religion at W&L.

‘“There were, at the same time,
arguments that certain other kinds of
study—physical education, for instance—
should not earn credit either. But the
argument against ROTC was heightened
by the Vietnam War.”’

On the other side of the debate were
those who argued that the presence of
ROTC on a campus such as Washington
and Lee was not only valid but vitally
important.

“*That side took the basic view that
armies are dangerous, and it is not good
for armies to be run altogether by people
who have been trained strictly in the
military,’’ says Hodges. ‘‘It was felt that
we would be far better off as a nation to
have some liberally-educated military
leaders. I suppose you could still hear
both sides of that debate on campuses to-
day, but the intensity of the debate was
clearly a product of the overall climate of
that period.’’

That debate was one sign of the
times. Another sign came at the height of
the campus unrest in the spring of 1970
when rumors abounded that anti-war
protesters planned to set fire to W&L’s
ROTC building. Around the country
ROTC was a popular target of the war
protests. Some ROTC buildings were oc-
cupied by protesting students; it never
came to that at W&L.

Those days of controversy are long
forgotten now. Today uniformed ROTC
cadets scarcely warrant a second glance
when they walk across the campus. Any
comments directed at the cadets
nowadays are not so much derisive as
facetious.

‘“Once in a while somebody will salute
me or something like that when I’m in

uniform,’’ says Lukanuski. ‘‘But it’s real-
ly no big deal on the campus. Nobody’s
ever called me a fascist or a baby killer
because of the uniform.’’

‘Whenever a helicopter flies over the
campus, one of my roommates will warn
me to get used to that sound because I’ll
be hearing it a lot in a couple of years,’
says William E. (Hutch) Hutchinson, a
junior member of the ROTC detachment
from Providence, R.I.

The atmosphere and the attitudes
have changed, to be sure. And in the
meantime, ROTC has become an even
more attractive alternative from a prac-
tical standpoint.

The extensive scholarship program is
perhaps the major attraction. Of the 192
Washington and Lee students in ROTC
this year, 65 are receiving one of the 16
different varieties of ROTC scholarships,
most of which offer full tuition, fees,
books, and $100 a month in spending
money.

‘“We have a larger proportion of
students on ROTC scholarship than many
schools,’’ notes Ferguson. ‘‘The scholar-
ships are awarded on the basis of na-
tional competition, and our students tend
to do quite well in that competition.’’

According to Ferguson, the University
received in excess of $195,000 in scholar-
ship monies from the government for a
single semester in 1983-84.

*‘That is a major investment for us,
but we think it is an investment well
worth making,’’ says Ferguson, who took
over this year from Lt. Col. David F.
Fowler.

**! frankly wondered whether the
scholarship would make that much dif-
ference to students here,’’ adds Ferguson.
**But I’ve found that it does make a
difference.”’

Take Tomaso, for instance. Four
years ago when he began looking at col-
leges, Tomaso’s father encouraged him to
consider the service academies or, if not
that, to look into the possibility of an
ROTC scholarship.

“It had absolutely no appeal to me,”’
says Tomaso. ‘‘Even when I got to W&L
and decided to take the first year of
military science, I was not very enthused.

But Col. Fowler wiped out the
stereotyped idea I had of the military, the
nuts and bolts idea.

*‘! wound up applying for the scholar-
ship. And I must admit that, to a large
extent at least, I did it for the money.’’

Tomaso chose one of the scholarships
through which he will wind up spending
six years in the Army Reserve after

finishing law school.

For others, the attraction of ROTC
goes beyond the scholarship to the
future. While his classmates scramble
around this year getting their resumes
printed and their interviews lined up,
Lukanuski is sitting back and watching.
He knows that next fall he’ll be
employed by the U.S. Army at the

bi I

  

Photo by Capt. Robert Ripple

ROTC Climbs Back

$19,000 entering annual salary of a se-
cond lieutenant. With that security,
however, comes a commitment to four
years of active duty.

‘‘When I first began to consider com-
mitting myself to ROTC my father cau-
tioned me to be certain that I wanted to
put in those four years,’’ said Lukanuski.
“*T really did think long and hard about
that.

‘I am not under the pressure that
some of my classmates are to find a job.
My goal is to end up as a military in-
telligence officer stationed in West Ger-
many. I want to spend whatever free time
I have traveling around Europe. If I’m
going to be in the Army, I want to see
all I can see.’’

In its recruitment campaign, ROTC
emphasizes positive aspects of that four-
year commitment, selling potential cadets
on the fact that they will leave the Army
with more marketable skills than they
possessed when they entered.

‘‘During my four years of active duty,
I will increase my qualifications,’’ says
Hutchinson. ‘‘I think that I’ll come out
of the service ahead of my classmates in
terms of experience. That should help me
find a position that I want.”’

Is ROTC a valid career move?
Michael Cappeto is the director of career
placement at W&L. He does not hestitate
to recommend ROTC to students with an
interest in the military.

“*It is my personal feeling that we
need more liberally-educated people in
the military rather than relying solely on
the leadership of people who have spent
four years training specifically for the
military,’’ says Cappeto. ‘‘I find that is
not different at all from my belief that
we need more liberally educated people in
business. From that standpoint, ROTC
does represent a valid option for some
students.”’

Another practical reason more
students are opting for ROTC involves
the reinstitution of draft registration.
That, says Ferguson, has been a factor in
increased enrollments since students can
eliminate the threat of having their
careers interrupted.

‘I remember one of the first ques-

tions I was asked by a prospective
employer out of college was whether I
had served in the military,’’ says
Ferguson. ‘‘There was the understandable
concern then that a company didn’t want
to train you only to lose you to military
service. ROTC allows the student to exer-
cise control over the situation.’’

There are various other reasons
students choose to participate in ROTC.
Some see it as an adventure, a challenge.

*“We do have students who are excited
about the fact that they’re going into a
situation that is not routine, that they’ll
change jobs every two or three years,”’
says Ferguson.

‘“‘And there are others who naturally
gravitate toward the military because of
family influences in that direction.’’

For whatever reason they choose
ROTC, Ferguson finds the students come
from an increasingly wide variety of
backgrounds and bring an equally wide
variety of viewpoints.

‘*I’ve been interested in coming up
with a model of a prospective ROTC
cadet at Washington and Lee,’’ says
Ferguson. ‘‘And what I have found is
that we have an excellent cross section
here. In the senior class, for instance,
we’ve probably got less than 10 percent
from military families. That our students

 

Photo by Capt. Robert Ripple

come from the whole range of
backgrounds is, I think, important to the
program.’’

But though they come to ROTC from
different directions, W&L’s ROTC
students seem to be headed in similar
directions. Most, according to Ferguson,
are considering military intelligence while
the second most popular post-graduate
choice involves delaying active duty for
law school and then entering the military
as attorneys.

Ferguson acknowledges that the
ROTC program’s primary responsibility
is to produce quality officers. He insists
that is particularly critical given the com-
plexities of today’s military.

“‘It takes a different breed of officer
to come in and lead a military unit to-
day,’’ he offers. ‘‘We have become so
complex in our weapons systems and in
our leadership dynamics that we must
have officers who are able to handle
these situations. More than ever we need
to have leaders from schools such as
Washington and Lee.’’

With the Army officer corps today,
75 percent received their commissions
from the ROTC while the others were
commissioned from West Point or Army
officer candidate schools.

Not all of the W&L students who par-
ticipate in ROTC are in the program for
four full years. Indeed, the majority of
the cadets are not headed toward the
military commitment. For some, maybe
even most, ROTC offers a chance to see,
if only in a cursory way, what the
military is all about—and the opportunity
to get academic credits in the process.

The ROTC program is divided into
two parts—the basic course and the ad-
vanced course. The basic course is for
freshmen and sophomores. Worth five
credit hours altogether, it introduces the
students to management principles, na-
tional defense, military history, leadership
development, and military courtesy,
discipline, and customs.

The advanced course covers the final
two years and includes a six-week ad-
vanced camp at Ft. Bragg, N.C. Instruc-
ion in that segment involves advanced
leadership development, group dynamics,

organization, and management, small
unit tactics and administration, and the
practical leadership that comes with
assigning students as cadet officers.

Ferguson suggests that even in-
structing students who will not move
beyond the basic course represents an im-
portant service not just to the University
but to the public at large.

**‘T am not so naive as to believe the
military is for everybody,’’ Ferguson
says. ‘“‘But I do think that everyone needs
to be aware of what the military is all
about.

‘I have an obligation, as does every
other military officer, to educate the
public. After all, we do work for the
public. And I see ROTC as an excellent
place to do that. Even if a student
doesn’t remain in the program the full
four years, we’ve still done a service
because we’ve educated that student on
how the system works—some of the
values, some of the traditions, some of
the professional ethics. I think that is
really important.’’

Ten years ago arguments raged over
whether the purpose of ROTC was not
antithetical to the avowed purposes of
college education. For his part, Ferguson
believes that W&L’s ROTC program
operates within the University’s overall
educational goals.

““We realize that education is primari-
ly preparing a student for the decision-
making process. We hope we’re preparing
these students to step out and lead,’’ says
Ferguson. ‘‘We counsel our students con-
tinuously. It is a requirement that every
semester, the instructors sit down with
each student. We strive to foster the
same close student-professor relationship
that is so crucial to the atmosphere of
this University. We think we do belong.”’

And though they may have been
drawn to the program for very practical
reasons, many of the W&L cadets find
that ROTC can complement the other
facets of their educational experience.

*‘My participation in ROTC hasn’t
changed my philosophy at all in the sense
that I’m still against killing people,”’
Tomaso says. ‘‘But ROTC has instilled in
me a sense of discipline.

gt! eae: aw :. a
ing am ey " # iss

W&L’s ROTC detachment in formation

**! think it’s important to note that
you don’t necessarily have to be a gung-
ho military type to be in ROTC or to
derive benefit from it. After all, I’m a
member of ROTC and a member of the
Frisbee Club at the same time.”’

Lukanuski credits his ROTC ex-
perience with improving his classroom
work, particularly in the sense of helping
him to mature.

‘‘When I attended summer Advanced
Camp at Fort Bragg, I was forced to
realize that the time is coming, sooner
than I might want to admit, when I’ll be
out on my own,’’ said Lukanuski.
‘‘There is the tendency in college to take
things less seriously because you know
you’re still a kid, that the line between
student and adult is there. This ex-
perience has forced me to cross that line
before some of my classmates. And
because of that I tend to take my school
work more seriously now.’’

Most of the ROTC students look
upon the program as one form of ex-
tracurricular activity and contend that it
does not intrude on their time even on
those occasions when they are off on an
overnight field training exercise.

‘*T actually look forward to those
Overnights once a semester,’’ says Hut-
chinson. “‘It is good to get away from
the campus occasionally. It doesn’t take
up any of my study time. In fact, it
might help me organize my time a bit
better.’’

Some ROTC students are more active-

 

ly involved than others, taking advantage
of the voluntary Ranger program which
provides more field training oppor-
tunities.

Ferguson believes the interest will con-
tinue to grow for ROTC and expects the
unit to benefit next year when the
University’s first women undergraduates
arrive.

“‘Coeducation will have a very
positive effect on ROTC here,”’ says
Ferguson. ‘‘Actually, we have been
coeducational in a sense for several years
since we have a cross enrollment with
Lynchburg College, Liberty Baptist Col-
lege, Hollins, and Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College. We have had several
women participate in various aspects of
the program.

‘““We are very excited about the pro-
spect of women members of ROTC.
Across the board a large number of the
Army’s female officers come from
ROTC.”’

Ferguson is confident the popularity
of ROTC will continue to increase and
that the W&L detachment will produce
more officers in the years ahead.

‘“‘Although I have a quota to produce
a certain number of second lieutenants
each year, I make only one promise: that
I will produce quality lieutenants,”’ Says
Ferguson. ‘“That, I think, is the value of
ROTC. And I think it js particularly
valuable given the quality of the officers
Washington and Lee has produced and
will undoubtedly continue to produce.”’

oe

7:

 

_

by Jeffery G. Hanna

Returning to His Roots

John Elrod moves in as Dean of the College

Though Einstein, God, and an Iowa
State physicist combined to bring John
Elrod to Washington and Lee in the first
place, something more akin to fate seem-
ed to be at work to bring him back.

It was in February of 1983 that Elrod
paid his first visit to W&L. At the time,
he was chairman of the department of
philosophy at Iowa State University in
Ames.

Under a grant from the National En-
dowment for the Humanities, Elrod and
a high energy physicist on the Iowa State
faculty had collaborated on a study of
Einstein’s scientific, ethical, and religious
views. That study formed the basis for a
lecture entitled ‘‘Einstein and God’’
which Elrod was invited to deliver under
the auspices of W&L’s Howerton Fund in
Religion.

Elrod had not set foot on the
Washington and Lee campus before he
came to lecture. He remembers distinctly
that he liked what he found.

‘**‘T guess my reaction was like that of
most everyone else who comes here for
the first time,’’ recalls Elrod. ‘‘I was
awfully impressed with the beauty of the
campus and the congeniality of the facul-
ty and the quality of the students. I just
had a very positive experience.’’

The converse was true as well. Those
who had the opportunity to hear Elrod’s
lecture or to meet with him during the
visit were as impressed with him as he
was with the University.

Less than nine weeks after Elrod’s lec-
ture, William J. Watt announc-

first visit and Watt’s announcement
seemed providential, to be sure. But there
was even more to the timing than was
immediately evident.

Not long before he became a can-
didate at W&L, Elrod had begun to grow
restless at Iowa State.

For one thing, he and his wife, Mimi,
are both Southerners—Georgians, to be
precise. They had lived in the Midwest
for 15 years and in New York City for
six years before that.

‘We had begun to think seriously
about coming home to the South,’’ says
Elrod, whose soft Georgia accent has
managed to survive the years in Iowa.
‘“We both had some very strong attrac-
tions to our roots.”’

Those roots were not just geographic,
however; they were educational as well.
Though he had spent his entire teaching
career at Iowa State (a university with
about 25,000 students), Elrod had receiv-
ed his undergraduate education at South
Carolina’s Presbyterian College (a school
that currently has an enrollment of 950).
He retained vivid memories, positive
memories, of his undergraduate ex-
perience. And perhaps those memories
had, in part at least, led to his increasing
frustrations with education in the state
university setting.

‘“Though I certainly had a mostly
positive experience throughout my years
at lowa State, I was frustrated in the
sense that I found it extremely difficult

to make changes,’’ says Elrod, who had
joined the Iowa State faculty in 1971
after earning his Ph.D. in the philosophy
of religion from Columbia University.

‘*T found the whole educational enter-
prise at Iowa State highly politicized.
People were fighting for a piece of the
requirement pie,’’ he says. ‘‘I found it
very difficult to get anyone to think
pedagogically and philosophically about
what we ought to be doing.

‘‘For better or worse, I think it is
perceived in state universities that the
main survival mechanism is students. If
you don’t draw students, you just don’t
keep going. And that doesn’t create a
cooperative atmosphere. There is a
tremendous competitiveness for the stu-
dent and for the dollar.’’

So it was that when Elrod received a
letter from Washington and Lee inform-
ing him of the vacant deanship and in-
viting his application, he immediately
recognized the potential of returning to
his roots—the South, on the one hand,
and a small liberal arts setting, on the
other.

‘“When this opportunity came along I
thought maybe if I find myself in an
academic environment where departmen-
tal lines don’t mean quite as much as
they do in a big university and where
faculty are accustomed to talking with
each other over departmental fences and
where there is a lot of interdisciplinary
teaching going on, then it might be more
possible for faculty to work as a single

unit. It might be possible for

 

ed he was stepping down as
Dean of the College at
Washington and Lee.

The search for Watt’s suc-
cessor had just begun when
someone suggested that the lowa
State philosopher who had lec-
tured on Einstein and God
would be a strong candidate. So
John Elrod’s name was quickly
added to the list of candidates.
Ultimately Elrod’s name wound
up at the top of that list. And
on August 1, he took over as
Dean of the College.

The proximity of Elrod’s

 

e¢

  

my expectations have not
been frustrated at all.’’

faculty to sit down in a
disinterested way and try to
figure out what we ought to do
to educate coming generations
of students.

‘‘Having been here at
Washington and Lee, even for a
brief time, my expectations have
not been frustrated at all. I do
find what I thought I would.”’

x * *

In the back of his mind,
John Elrod had always thought
he might one day teach on the
college level. (‘‘I liked the ivory

 

 

7

 

tower character of it,’’ he says.)
Fact is, he had intended to head
straight in that direction after he
graduated from Presbyterian.
His plan was to pursue a
graduate degree in English
literature at Vanderbilt.

But the summer before he
was to enroll at Vanderbilt,
Elrod took a summer job as
youth minister of a large
Presbyterian church in suburban
Atlanta. He never made it to
Vanderbilt. Three years later he

 

 

eed,

“I find that students really resonate
to [the] understanding of life that
is evident in Kierkegaard.’’

them this way and that, and
they like the idea of stopping
and taking some time to think
about what is really important.
They like the idea of trying to
take control of your life and to
choose a direction in which you
want to go rather than choosing
a direction because your parents
want you to do it or because
society is pushing this way.”’
When he began teaching at
Iowa State 13 years ago, Elrod
discovered students were eager

 

 

was still working at that summer
job and found himself being
pulled in an altogether different direc-
tion, toward the parish ministry.

When he finally began his graduate
studies in 1965, it was not at Vanderbilt
but at Union Theological Seminary in
New York. After one semester at Union,
he changed directions again, this time
merely walking across the street to Col-
umbia University and entering the
graduate program in an area called
philosophy of religion.

**T realized at that time that there
were issues and questions and problems
that I had running around in my head
which could only be dealt with by going
on into philosophy and theology,’’ Elrod
says.

During his second year at Columbia,
Elrod’s future course took yet another
turn when he took a course entitled
‘Kierkegaard and His Contem-
poraries’’—a course that examined the
people who had influenced 19th-century
Danish theologian Soren Kierkegaard, the
man many consider the father of
existentialism.

*‘There was an immediate understand-
ing between me and Kierkegaard,’’ says
Elrod. ‘‘I knew right then that I was go-
ing to spend a lot of time with him.’’

Indeed, he did. Indeed, he has. Today
Elrod is generally acknowledged as one
of the leading authorities on Kierkegaard.
He is the author of two major works on
the philosopher—Being and Existence in
Kierkegaard’s Pseudonymous Works
(1975) and Kierkegaard and Christendom
(1981) and is in the process of finishing a
third, this one a biography. He has writ-

8

ten numerous articles about Kierkegaard
for professional journals. He serves on
the international advisory board for a
new uniform translation into English of
Kierkegaard’s collected works.

Though Elrod stops short of saying
that he embraces Kierkegaard’s
philosophies, he readily confesses that his
thinking has been shaped in large
measure by 15 years of studying
Kierkegaard.

‘*Kierkegaard believed there were
three fundamental life orientations: a life
lived according to pleasure, a life lived ac-
cording to duty, and a life of faith,’’ ex-
plains Elrod. ‘‘He believed the most im-
portant thing in life was for each in-
dividual to choose one of those orienta-
tions and not just inadvertently end up in
one.

‘*He believed that, in the final
analysis, the most important thing that a
human being could do is to choose how
he or she is going to live their life. And
he wrote in such a way as to try to
awaken people to these possibilities in life
and to encourage them to make a
choice.”’

As Elrod notes, the idea of exercising
control over your future rather than
allowing outside forces to chart the
course for you is particularly intriguing
for college students.

‘*T find that students really resonate
to this understanding of life that is evi-
dent in Kierkegaard,’’ he says. ‘‘They are
at a point where they sense it is impor-
tant that decisions be made and they
sense the number of pressures pushing

to pursue courses in philosophy,
not just Kierkegaard. At first
blush it may seem rather odd to find a
Kierkegaard authority on the faculty at
Iowa State University or to find such a
strong philosophy department existing
alongside such traditionally strong pro-
grams as engineering and veterinary
science. Indeed, Elrod recalls that many
among those future engineers and
veterinarians steered clear of the
philosophy classrooms and considered
such topics ‘‘little more than fluff.’’

**In the early 1960s many of the large
land grant universities were trying to
broaden their programs, and that was
certainly true at Iowa State,’’ notes
Elrod. ‘‘It was a very good time for
universities to do that from the stand-
point of the humanities because it was a
counter-cultural period and this was driv-
ing some of our best undergraduates in
the direction of the humanities and
graduate study. And, of course, they
wanted to continue the revolution on a
faculty side rather than the student side.

‘‘When I got to Iowa State, the
counter-cultural interest of students was
still very high so we had good students
and lots of students studying both
philosophy and religion simply because
they were looking for something else.

*‘They were looking for a way of life
different from the one they were rebelling
against on the college campuses across
the country. So you had the natural in-
clination of students to take these
courses.’’

During Elrod’s tenure at Iowa State,
including five years as chairman of the
philosophy department, the department

 

grew in size and quality. So,
too, did Elrod’s frustrations
grow.

‘““‘If you get people just
voting their political interests, it
doesn’t always work out for the
best educationally,’’ Elrod
observes. ‘‘You have to think
more not only in terms of your
interests, but in terms of the
final product you’re trying to
put out—the educated student.
That requires you to think about
this process in terms much

 

 

‘*The role of the dean is to help the
faculty do its job.”’

trying to do themselves what
they’re teaching the students.”’

None of this should be inter-
preted as a doctrine of publish
or perish, however. Elrod is
quick to observe that
Washington and Lee’s stated
mission is that of a teaching
university.

‘“When we emphasize, as we
properly do, that what is distinc-
tive about Washington and Lee
is the personal attention in-

 

 

larger than your own very
specific interests.”’

xk *& *

Were he to write the job description
for Dean of the College, John Elrod
would make it brief: ‘‘The role of the
Dean is to help the faculty do its job,”’
he says.

If only the task were as simple as the
job description sounds.

Elrod makes it plain that his very first
assignment upon taking up the deanship
at W&L has been to learn how things are
done in a small school in general and at
Washington and Lee in particular.

His own educational process began
shortly after he arrived in August and
visited each of W&L’s department heads
to get a sense of the departments. When
classes commenced in September, he
started another round of visits, this time
to each professor in the College.

‘‘This is learning time. I want to hear
how the faculty think things are going. I
want to tell each one individually what I
think is important,’’ Elrod says.

And what exactly is it that John
Elrod thinks is important? It is this: the
faculty of a university, any university,
must be constantly growing
professionally.

‘*T think it is the dean’s responsibility
to see that they are doing that,’’ he says.
‘*T think it is the dean’s responsibility to
make sure the faculty are doing the very
best they can do in the classroom, too.’’

Those are the dean’s responsibilities.
But how are they achieved? That is what
Elrod is striving to determine.

‘*T know how these things are done in
a state university; that’s clear as a bell to

me,’’ he says. ‘‘At Iowa State, we had
fairly elaborate procedures to evaluate a
person’s teaching. That included peer
evaluations and student evaluations and
alumni evaluations. We also evaluated
the quality of the faculty member’s
research by having experts in their fields
look at that work. That’s scary stuff.

*‘But the central purpose of evalua-
tion is the positive one of helping the
faculty members improve. You can’t im-
prove unless you’ve got some kind of ob-
jective feedback on where you are now
and what you might do to make yourself
better. Every faculty member can be
better.”’

For Elrod, one of the principal ways
a teacher can improve is to continue to
grow professionally, ‘‘to stay intellectual-
ly alive in his or her discipline.”’

An avid tennis player, it is only
natural that Elrod uses that sport to il-
lustrate his point. ‘‘I don’t think the best
tennis teacher is always going to be the
person who’s best at the game. Connors
and McEnroe may be terrible teachers.
We have outstanding researchers who are
terrible teachers. But you want anybody
who’s teaching you how to play tennis to
know how to play the game. They need
not play it perfectly or better than
anybody else. But they should know how
to play it and should be continuing over
a period of time to try to refine their
own game.

‘‘T want my own children to be taught
by faculty members who are, in ways ap-
propriate to their abilities and interests,

dividual students receive from
their instructors, that means you
just aren’t going to have the
research output and productivity you’re
going to have in a research institution,”’
he says.

‘*But you don’t want that. It’s unrealistic
and counterproductive to expect that of
our faculty here.

‘*At the same time, you don’t want a
faculty member who does nothing but
meet his classes, either. I think those ex-
tremes are disastrous. We need to aim
somewhere in-between. But what comes
first is being prepared to teach our
students well and giving them the atten-
tion and the time that they deserve. That,
after all, is why they’ve come here, to get
the personal attention of a strong
faculty.”’

From the time he was first contacted
about the vacant deanship at W&L until
he actually accepted the position, John
Elrod read everything he could find
about the University. He read what the
University said about itself; he read what
others said about the University.

Among his conclusions was the strong
belief that he could not have come to
Washington and Lee at a more exciting
time in the University’s history.

‘‘We have at this University outstan-
ding resources, an exceptional faculty,
unmatched facilities, a strong and loyal
alumni body, and an outstanding man at
the top in John Wilson,’’ says Elrod.
‘“‘With those elements going for us, I see
no reason why Washington and Lee can-
not move forward to become one of the
most distinguished national liberal arts
colleges in the country.’’

-

oe

A

=

Be

3

=:

ee

a

t

 

 

faa 4

Returning alumni, including a busload from the Lynchburg chapter,
prepared for the game by listening to some Dixieland jazz.

' z " Pe ere
= i fe - — i .
R io : : : a nm ee el
ts as ge a ea
a ee # a e
Re 4 ui TT

The Alumni Association’s pre-game picnic drew a good crowd of
returning alumni prior to the Generals’ contest with Hampden-Sydney.

even been born when the 1934 team captured its champion-
ship. That did not diminish their appreciation of the achieve-
ment. And the crowd demonstrated its appreciation with a
long, loud ovation that provided an electric moment when the
returning players were introduced at halftime.

The returning players were special guests at a banquet in
their honor that evening and had plenty of opportunity to
swap stories.

All the salutes to the ’34 team did not end there, however.
One member of that 1934 team who could not be present for
the festivities was Joe Arnold of Versailles, Ky. But Arnold
did write a letter to his returning teammates and told them of
a yearling thoroughbred colt he owns. ‘‘If the colt appears to
have real quality,’’ wrote Arnold, ‘‘I will name him ’34
Champs.”’

In addition to the reunion of the 1934 team, the weekend’s
Homecoming activities featured a pre-game picnic sponsored
by the Alumni Association.

The 1984 Homecoming Queen was Kathleen Plante, a
junior at Hollins College who is attending W&L this fall
under the Seven-College Exchange program. She was spon-
sored by Pi Kappa Alpha.

Another major event over Homecoming weekend was a
sneak preview of the University’s new Student Pavilion.
Although considerable work remained on the structure, it
received a baptism of fire when a crowd estimated at 2,200
jammed the facility on Friday evening to hear a concert by
The Spinners. Two days later the Homecoming festivities end-
ed with another Pavilion concert, featuring Eight to the Bar.

 

   

. ie he " 4
ee” iki ee ae i iF

Chemistry professor Keith Shillington introduces 1984 Homecoming Queen
Kathleen Plante, a W&L exchange student from Hollins College.

cS é a
P a 3
fs fd =
a4
ces
f= . =
a4 ‘dl

Ae Be 3 \¢)

Even though construction was not yet complete, the new Student Pavilion

was put to good use during Homecoming Weekend when the Spinners enter-
tained a crowd estimated at 2,200.

 

1]

The Osmosis
Method

Of Teaching
Acting

Irish Professional Actor
Jarlath Conroy
Spends a Month at W&L

12

When the Washington and Lee
University Theatre presented Sean
O’Casey’s Juno and the Paycock as its
first production of the 1984-85 season, it
was quite apparent that the actors and
actresses had worked overtime to perfect
their Irish accents.

For at least one of the cast members,
however, the accent came quite naturally.
That was understandable. The actor in
question, Jarlath Conroy, was born in
County Galway, Ireland. His accent is
genuine. And so is his acting.

Conroy is a professional actor with
some impressive Broadway and film
credits. He spent the month of October
on the Washington and Lee campus as
the Glasgow Actor-in-Residence. In addi-
tion to teaching an acting class and lec-
turing to several other classes, Conroy
played the lead role of Captain Boyle in
Juno and the Paycock.

For his fellow cast members, Con-
roy’s very presence on the stage provided
an invaluable learning experience.

**Playing opposite Jarlath is akin to
playing tennis against an opponent who is
better than you are—you aren’t going to
win the match, but you’re going to learn
some things and you’re going to become
a better player, or actor in this case,”’
said W&L drama professor Albert C.
Gordon, who shared several of the play’s
most memorable scenes with Conroy.

The learning experience worked both
ways, according to Conroy.

‘‘There is a kind of selfish reason in
my coming here as an actor-in-
residence,’’ Conroy explained. ‘‘I like to
learn, too. I think just in doing my work
and relating to other people that I learn a
great deal.

**For instance, I learn about what I’m
capable of in terms of dealing with
myself, with my own irritations, in a
situation like this. On another level I
learn what I can do in a performance,
what depends on me, whether I can come
up with it or not.’’

Though Conroy instructed W&L
students twice a week in a formal acting
class, he agreed that much of the best in-
struction took place on the stage, both in
rehearsals and performances.

 

Conroy presents an O’Casey reading.

“In terms of what I like to achieve in
relation to the people I’m working with,
I like to set a reasonable example without
being too severe about it. I think that is
the way the students learn. I think they
learn from osmosis in this situation where
there is an artist in residence,”’ said
Conroy.

**A lot of the work I’m here to do
was done during the rehearsal for the
play. It’s in that process that one learns.
Of course, one learns still more in the
performance situation. That is a new
level, and there are new situations.’’

Conroy admitted that leaving the
Broadway stage and its professionalism
for a university theatre can sometimes be
frustrating.

‘‘But to me professionalism has got to
do with a mental attitude. People can be
professional in this situation just as peo-
ple can be totally amateurish in the so-
called professional situation,’’ he said.
“‘Obviously, if one finds people who take
their work seriously, it’s an added bonus.
Certainly the people here approached this
production with quite a degree of
professionalism.

‘I would expect to find that degree of
professionalism, though, since any theatre
department that goes so far as to invite
in a guest artist has probably achieved a
level of discipline and approach to the
craft already.’’

‘‘People can be professional in this situation just
as people can be totally amateurish in the so-called
professional situation. ’”’

By the time Juno and the Paycock
opened in late October, the cast had had
four weeks of rehearsals. That, said Con-
roy, was time enough to create a first-
rate production.

‘‘T have seen a group of people come
together who basically did not know each
other and do a play in two weeks,”’ he
said. “‘It really depends upon the people
working and what they want to bring to
it and what allowances they’re prepared
to make for each other’s personalities.
Usually in a short period of time you
don’t have the opportunity to work out
personality differences, so if there is a lit-
tle bit of give all around on that level,
then people can get on with the work.’’

For their part, the cast members
found Conroy more than willing to make
adjustments to the situation.

‘‘] never saw any sign of temper, and
he was never condescending in any shape
or form to the rest of us,’’ said Helena
Roller, manager of the W&L Book Store
who played Juno opposite Conroy’s Cap-
tain Boyle.

‘“‘It was an incredible experience for
me. Jarlath is such a master, very pa-
tient, very meticulous.”’

W&L junior Chris Carmouche of
Gary, Ind., was Conroy’s understudy for
Juno and the Paycock. Carmouche had
the opportunity to take over the role of
Captain Boyle for a special production of
the play on Parents’ Weekend after Con-
roy had left.

‘‘My interpretation of the role was
somewhat different from his, but it was
unquestionably a great help for me to
watch Jarlath on the stage,’’ said Car-
mouche. ‘‘Not only did I learn by watch-
ing the things he did during rehearsals,
but just being around him gave me a
sense of the professional attitude that an
actor must possess.”’

According to Gordon, Conroy was
the first visiting actor-in-residence for the
University Theatre although in years past
the theatre has had the benefit of visiting
directors and was also host to a troupe
of Polish mimes.

‘‘Other college theatres take advan-
tage of this opportunity on a fairly
regular basis,’’ said Gordon. ‘‘It is often

Conroy as Captain Boyle (right) rehearses a scene from Juno and the Paycock with W&L drama

ie

 

 

Ht

professor Albert C. Gordon (center) and chemistry professor Keith Shillington.

difficult to arrange because of scheduling
and satisfying conditions of the actors’
union.

‘“We were especially grateful that the
Glasgow Endowment Fund could use its
resources to bring Jarlath here.’’

Conroy’s visit was, in large measure,
a product of his long-standing relation-
ship with Joseph Martinez, assistant pro-
fessor of drama at W&L.

Conroy and Martinez, who directed
Juno and the Paycock, were classmates at
the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in
London.

‘*Although Joseph and I have never
worked together, we have always kept in
touch with each other and with each
other’s professional progress,”’ said
Conroy.

For Conroy, that progress has meant

parts in The Elephant Man, both on
Broadway and on national television, as
well as a role in the movie Heaven’s
Gate.

And though his Irish accent clearly
came in handy for a Sean O’Casey play
such as Juno and the Paycock, Conroy
does admit that the Irish brogue can oc-
casionally be a drawback in his career.

“‘In New York I have become typecast
as an Irish actor. I’m working to get
away from that,’’ he explained. ‘‘There
are some casting people who want to
depart from that while there are others
who will not consider you for anything
else.

“IT personally find it almost racial. I
don’t want to be penalized for it. There
are a lot of other very good plays out
there that are not just Irish.’’

13

Photo by Scott Ferrell

 

 

**The lectures were excellent, the
discussions stimulating, and the food
altogether too delicious. The gracious
adaptation of the Alumni College to so
many people of diverse personality and
backgrounds is remarkable.’’

So enthused one of the 179 alumni,
spouses, and children who attended the
three W&L Alumni Colleges in 1984.
They came from far and wide—
California, Connecticut, Washington
(state), Texas, Louisiana, Iowa,
Colorado—to enjoy week-long seminars
on topics as diverse as ‘‘Society and the
Media,”’ ‘‘Elizabethan England,’’ and
‘Scientific Frontiers.’” And many were
back for their second or third Alumni
College session. One couple, Robert and
Giddy Dyer of Chicago, attended all
three 1984 programs. How good can the
food be?

‘**The Alumni College has really
caught on at W&L,”’ says Rob Fure,
director of summer programs, ‘‘and
we’re delighted by the enthusiasm of our
alumni and faculty alike. It’s gratifying
to see people from all walks of life com-
ing together so happily over books and
issues. The wisdom, curiosity, and good
humor of our participants are truly in-
spiring. They’ve helped to make our sum-
mer campus a lively, busy place.’’

Highlights of Alumni College ’84 in-
cluded guest appearances by NBC’s
Roger Mudd, Washington correspondent
Charles McDowell, Hollywood’s Stan
Kamen, and Pulitzer Prize-winning poet
Howard Nemerov. Participants also en-
joyed films, plays, and musical perform-
ances in addition to lectures by the facul-
ty on readings ranging from Shakespeare
to Lewis Thomas. ‘‘But the real highlight
of the Alumni College experience,’’ says
Tom Nye, head of the biology depart-
ment and director of last summer’s
‘*Scientific Frontiers,’ ‘‘has been and con-
tinues to be the participants themselves.
Their receptiveness to new ideas and will-
ingness to share their own thoughts and
experiences make the Alumni College not
simply another teaching experience but a
learning experience for all.’’

Fure reports that since the Alumni
College’s inaugural session in 1982 enroll-
ment has tripled. ‘‘Already we’re looking
ahead to next summer. The faculty, again
a mixture of junior and senior professors,
have begun meeting to plan another fine
series of programs. We expect to have
our 1985 Alumni College brochure in the
mail to all alumni and parents of current
students in early February.”’

The first of the 1985 Alumni College

14

‘Wishing
You Were
Here’

And You Can Be—
For Alumni Colleges ’85

 

(June 30-July 6) will be entitled ‘‘Great
Writers, Etc.” Participants will have an
opportunity to take a week-long course
on either Mark Twain, recent Latin
American Nobel Laureate Gabriel Garcia
Marquez, or selected short works by
three Russian novelists. Alumni collegians
will also select a second course on either
Baroque music, Grecian vases, or great
painters. Those wishing to spend their
afternoons on campus will be able to at-
tend workshops in the W&L art studio or
the Reeves Center for Research and Ex-
hibition of Porcelain and Paintings.
Alumni College No. 2 will focus on
modern health care, its abundant prom-
ises and problems. ‘‘Society and Health’’
(July 7-13) will examine several of the
difficult issues posed by recent advances
in medical technology. Joining Tom Nye
as faculty for the program will be Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion and
director of W&L’s Society and the Pro-
fessions, and Leonard E. Jarrard, head

of the psychology department and a
widely published authority on brain
research.

“‘Classical Athens’’ (July 14-20), with
Professors Harrison J. Pemberton, I.
Taylor Sanders, and Herman W. Taylor,
will conclude the three consecutive weeks
of Alumni Colleges in 1985. Following a
week-long introduction to the history and
culture of ancient Greece next summer,
participants will have the opportunity to
join the faculty for a tour of Greece in
1986.

Following up on last summer’s first
international program, the ‘‘Elizabethan
England’’ faculty have arranged an
itinerary and reserved tours, theatre, and
first-class accommodations for W&L’s in-
augural Alumni College Abroad session
(August 6-23). Experienced English
scholar-travelers, Professors John M.
Evans, Taylor Sanders, and Pamela H.
Simpson, expect to join 40 participants
for a 16-day excursion to London, Strat-
ford, Oxford, and several Elizabethan
houses. Participants in the 1984 program
will have first crack at the limited
number of available spaces.

““Two of the 1985 programs will be
quite new experiences for us,’’ says Fure.
“‘The Alumni College Abroad, which
we’re very excited about, and the ‘Great
Writers, Etc.’ program, which will give
us a chance to involve more W&L faculty
than ever before, are important innova-
tions. We are also adopting a consecutive
week schedule to accommodate those
who want to attend more than one pro-
gram. And 1985 will bring our first
graduating class of Alumni College
seniors—participants for four consecutive
years. After that it’s graduate school, I
guess.”’

Asked if he thinks the Alumni College
will soon outgrow its size, Fure
responds, ‘‘We already have more facul-
ty eager to teach in the Alumni College
than we can employ. We’ll continue to
limit our enrollment to 75 adults per ses-
sion in order to assure the personal atten-
tion that is, after all, essential to the
W&L experience. We won’t get crowded,
just busier.

‘“We do hope more families will bring
their children in 1985. We have an ex-
cellent junior program that keeps the
children from six to 16 happily occupied
each day and evening. Young or old,
everyone qualifies for admission to the
W&L Alumni College. And everyone
benefits. It’s a good way for children to
see W&L for the first time and for adults
to keep us on our toes.”’’

 

 

The Alumni College lectures provide a stimulating way to start the day.

 

Hollywood agent Stan Kamen, ’49,

           

ae Ed ae pres

Junior program participants enjoyed the lake at Skylark on the Blue Ridge Parkway. And a good time was had by all.

15

 

by Mark Mandel

Sports Information Director

Dick Miller
Captures
No. 200

Cross Country Wins
ODAC Title,

Another Winning Season
in Football

16

When long-time Washington and Lee
cross country coach Dick Miller earned
his 200th career victory midway through
the season, there was little fanfare to
herald his achievement. It seems cross
country coaches, like cross country run-
ners, get little attention outside their cir-
cle of friends.

Three weeks later, though, Miller
received his just due. After he guided the
Generals to a 14-0 regular season record
and the championship of the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference his colleagues
selected him as ODAC’s Coach of the
Year for the second time in three years.

‘‘I am flattered by the award and very
proud of the 200 wins, but I must give
the credit to the runners I’ve been
privileged to coach,’’ says Miller, who
has been coaching the harriers for 33
years.

**Success in cross country stems from
individual motivation. There is little spec-
tator interest and a coach sees almost
nothing of what the runners do out on
the course in meets and in practice.
Therefore, the runners must motivate
themselves and work hard daily. They
must discipline their minds and bodies.
I’ve been fortunate enough to coach in-
dividuals who have had that discipline.
I’m very proud of them.”’

Miller is equally proud of the way his
runners perform in the classroom and,
eventually, in the business world. He
credits their success to the same deter-
mination they exhibited on the cross
country trails.

‘Almost all of my runners have been
successful students and went on to be
productive people in their communities,”’
he says. ‘‘I cannot attribute it solely to
their cross country experience, but I
believe that while competing as runners
they learned some valuable lessons. In

  
 
 

~ " Cross country coach
ag Dick Miller

cross country you dont have teammates
to support you if you make a mistake.
You are responsible for the way you
finish as an individual, which is what it’s
like in the real world, to a large degree.’’

Having reached the 200-win plateau,
Miller has another major assignment to
tackle—starting W&L’s women’s cross
country program. ‘‘I don’t know what to
expect, but if the women who enter next
fall want to run they have a place on our
team. It may be difficult to find team
competition because few schools have
women’s teams, but they will be given
every Opportunity to compete,’’ says
Miller.

Miller is bound to make the athletic
experience of Washington and Lee’s
undergraduate women as rewarding as he
has for the men over the past 33 years.
Miller was head wrestling coach for 19
years and spent brief stints as head coach
of the track and tennis teams. Collective-
ly, he has coached W&L athletes in more
than 500 contests, winning over 300 of
those. He is also associate athletic
director.

Miller has no regrets, just fond
memories. ‘‘I mostly remember in-
dividuals, not teams. I’ve had the oppor-
tunity to coach some interesting in-
dividuals. I’ve had success but mostly a
lot of fun. I’m very happy with what I
am doing. W&L has given me the ver-
satility and freedom to achieve my
goals.’’

His goal this year was to win the
ODAC Championship and take his team
to the national championship in
Delaware, Ohio, on Nov. 17. Thus far he
has reached his first goal, when W&L
literally ran away with the team conference
title. The Generals, led by junior Eddie
Goundry and senior Frank Pittman, who
finished second and third respectively,

 

 

All-ODAC honors.
xk ke *
and his
were not the only

 

-

 

 

 

DuBose, Hipp Elected New Trustees

Trustees Clarke, Leggett, Philpott Retire from the Board

Washington and Lee has announced
the election of two new members to its
Board of Trustees.

Beverly M. (Bo) DuBose III, ’62, of
Atlanta, Ga., and W. Hayne Hipp, ’62,
of Greenville, S.C., were elected to six-
year terms on the Board, effective
January 1, 1985.

The election of DuBose and Hipp
came during the fall meeting of the
Trustees in Lexington. At the same
meeting three Trustees who retired from
the Board were recognized for their
outstanding service to the University and
were elected to emeritus status. The three
are T. Hal Clarke, ’38, of Atlanta; H.
Gordon Leggett Jr., ’54, of Lynchburg;
and James A. Philpott, ’45, of Lex-
ington, N.C.

In other action, the Board elected
James M. Ballengee of Radford, Pa., to
another three-year term as Rector.

DuBose is a founding partner of the
DuBose-Jones Company, a real estate
firm in Atlanta. He received his bachelor
of science degree in commerce from
Washington and Lee in 1962. While at
W&L, he was president of the Commerce
Fraternity, president of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity, and vice-president of the
senior class. He was elected to Beta Gam-
ma Sigma, the honor fraternity in
business administration.

Following his graduation, DuBose at-
tended Navy Officer Candidate School in
Newport, R. I. He served on active duty
with the Navy from 1962 to 1965, leaving
with the rank of lieutenant. He was na-
tional field sales manager for the Atlanta
Stove Works from 1965 until 1977 when
he and W&L classmate Louis L. Jones
III, °62, formed the DuBose-Jones
Company.

He is also president of Waterford, a
company involved in the recruitment of
executives for the banking industry. He is
on the board of Seydel International, is a
member of the Piedmont Driving Club,
and is president of the Benedicts.

Active as an alumnus of the Universi-
ty, he has served as president of W&L’s
Atlanta Alumni Chapter and was one of
the founders of the annual Lee Day Par-

18

 

 

Beverly M. DuBose IIT

 

 

Retiring Trustees T. Hal Clarke (second from left) and H. Gordon Leggett Jr. (third from left)
were recognized during the Board’s fall meeting in Lexington. Trustees Jerry South (left) and
A. Christian Compton presented silver trays to Clarke and Leggett. Retiring Trustee James A.
Philpott was not present at the meeting.

ty for Atlanta area alumni of W&L.

He and his wife, Eileen, live in Atlan-
ta. He is the father of three children.

Hipp is president of the Liberty Cor-
poration, the parent organization of
Liberty Life Insurance and Cosmos
Broadcasting. Headquartered in Green-
ville, the Liberty Corporation has
Operating units in 41 states.

He earned his bachelor of arts degree
in English from W&L. He also holds an
M.B.A. degree from the Wharton
Graduate School of Business at the
University of Pennsylvania and completed
additional studies at the Graduate School
of Business at Harvard University.

He serves as a director of South
Carolina National Bank, Dan River, Inc.,

and South Carolina Electric & Gas Co.
He serves as vice chairman of the Na-
tional Urban League and as incoming
chairman of the Greenville Chamber of
Commerce. In addition, he serves on the
governing boards of the National
Alliance of Business (Southeast), South
Carolina Foundation of Independent Col-
leges, Greenville YMCA, and Episcopal
High School in Alexandria, Va.

Hipp began his professional career in
1965 with Metropolitan Life Insurance in
San Francisco and joined Liberty Life in
1969. He became the Chief Executive Of-
ficer of the Liberty Corporation in 1978.

He and his wife, Anna Kate Reid
Hipp, live in Greenville with their three
children.

The
University

Report
1983-84

 

19

by President John D. Wilson

Muchas

Gracias
from the
President

 

20

I spent a recent evening with the annual Report of the Registrar (1983).
Some would find it rather dull reading, but I confess a fascination with
tables of statistics, recording course by course, and state by state, and
grade by grade, where our students come from and what they do once they
arrive—that is, what they do in the classroom!

I am, of course, aware that nothing so inadequately reflects the real
nature of learning than a stark recital of the percentage of students taking
English 101 who received a grade of B-. But if you look beneath the
statistics, a stronger framework can be discerned.

I mean by this that the educational values of Washington and Lee can
be discovered, not only in our Trustee Statement of Institutional Purpose,
but also in the registrar’s homely account of what we teach and to whom,
term by term, in the course of the academic year. He records, for exam-
ple, that in the Fall Term of 1983, approximately 83 percent of the courses
taught at Washington and Lee were taught in sections of 25 or fewer
students. Indeed fully half of our courses were taught in sections of 15 or
fewer, and these percentages do not take into account the 27 supervised in-
dependent study courses taught in that same term.

What is to be made of these statistics? What they reveal is a settled,
consistent theory of pedagogy. They eloquently convey the Faculty’s con-
viction that truly exceptional teaching and learning can only take place
when the scale is carefully controlled, when anonymity is impossible, when
intellectual discourse can assume the shape of dialogue or conversation and
not simply the uninterrupted monologue of a distant lecturer. They reveal
the Faculty’s conviction that human development is idiosyncratic; it has its
own peculiar pace and admits of very different impediments from one stu-
dent to the next. Teaching in human scale permits the skilled instructor to
know what is happening in every seat in the seminar room; permits the
assignment of much critical writing which can, in turn, be criticized: per-
mits a small group to leap quickly past principles already understood, pro-
cedures already mastered.

These things cannot be taken lightly. They are translations from a
carefully controlled budget, a budget which, nonetheless, turns upon the
requirements of a settled pedagogy. Let me explain it this way:

A) The Faculty approve changes in degree requirements calling
for a higher level of foreign language study;

B) Enrollments in Spanish rise by 30 percent;

C) The options in response to this phenomenon are:

1) offer the same number of Spanish sections as before
with an average enrollment of 15 and compel some
students who wish to study Spanish to take Russian
instead;

2) offer the same number of Spanish sections as before
but allow the average enrollment to rise to 20, thus
changing the conversaticnal nature of the course.

3) offer the necessary sections of Spanish, maintaining
both class size and student choice even though it means
adding a new position in Romance languages.

We elect the third option at Washington and Lee because it is the cor-
rect one but also because we have been given the liberty to do so by the
generosity of our alumni, parents, and friends. The Annual Fund makes
exactly this kind of difference in our lives and in our work. Members of
the Washington and Lee family know this well enough, for they experienc-
ed it firsthand when they were here. More importantly, they continue to
act upon that knowledge by giving generously each year to our educational
budget through the Annual Fund.

We are all immensely grateful, faculty and students alike—especially
those of us enrolled in Spanish this year! Muchas Gracias!

 

TOTAL NEW GIFT SUPPORT FOR 1983-84

The figures below represent cash only for the 1983-84 Annual Fund. Pledges, in addi-
tion to cash and securities, are included for all other gifts.

1. BY SOURCE
Current*

Alumni (incl. Annual Fund) $1,469,898
Parents 118,061
Friends 226,878
Foundations 130,747
Business Ziawer:
Remainder Value of Deferred —-—

Gifts (Pooled Income Fund,

Unitrusts, Annuity Trusts) sillelg bbc A ah

Totals $2,218,611

ll. BY PURPOSE

For annual operating expenses (current gifts)
Annual Fund
Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges
Other Current Gifts, unrestricted and restricted

For Endowment (capital gifts)
Student Aid
General & Special Endowment

For Plant Fund (capital gifts)
General Building
Restoration

GRAND TOTAL

Capital* *

$ 621,736
275
150,518

73,019
1,173,120

$2,173,709

1,354,311
174,141

690,159

488,596
1,613,283

330
71,500

Total
$2,091,634
118,336
377,396
285,788
346,046
1,173,120

$4,392,320

2,218,611

2,101,879

71,830

$4,392,320

“Current gifts are completely expended during the academic year.
**Capital gifts are designated as additions to endowment and physical plant.
***Includes $174,141 in gifts from business firms and friends through the Virginia Founda-

tion for Independent Colleges.

GIFT SUPPORT

A. Total voluntary support during the past five years. Cash only (no pledges) as reported
to the Council for Financial Aid to Education. Includes payments on pledges record-

ed in previous years.

Year Current

1979-80 $1,657,763
1980-81 1 Fe1,443
1981-82 2,180,185
1982-83 2,293,858
1983-84 2,210,117

Capital
$2,813,067
3,946,933
5,639,118
2,458,601
3,519,657

Total
$4,470,830
5,668,044
7,819,303
4,752,459
5,729,774

B. Total alumni support during the past five years. Cash only (no pledges) as reported

to the Council for Financial Aid to Education.

Year Current

1979-80 1,093,643
1980-81 1,219,384
1981-82 1,584,475
1982-83 1,631,948
1983-84 1,467,853

Capital
2,303,575
2,384,378
3,355,448
1,113,370
1,866,365

Total
3,397,218
3,603,762
4,939,923
2,745,318
3,334,218

C. Alumni support for current operations per student (annual fund plus other current gifts).

$644 per student
746 per student
944 per student

1979-80 1,698 students
1980-81 1,634 students
1981-82 1,679 students
1982-83 1,714 students
1983-84 1,719 students

952 per
853 per

student
student

21

Historic High for Deferred Giving Programs

Washington and Lee’s ever-expanding program of deferred giving
reached a major plateau during the 1983-84 academic year when nine
alumni and one friend of the University made gifts which totaled
more than $1 million—the highest total of such gifts in W&L’s
history.

S L Kopald, ’43, chairman of the Board of Trustees’ Planning
and Development Committee, explained that the value of those defer-
red gifts was $1,173,120, a figure representing the total tax deduc-
tions available to the donors. That is the standard for measuring
deferred gifts used by all philanthropically-supported institutions. The
combined market value of the gifts to W&L was $2,595,569.

Unlike outright gifts, which are measured by their market or cash
values, deferred gifts are benefactions which allow donors, or their
named beneficiaries, to retain lifetime incomes based on the donated
assets. Because the assets are not given over for the school’s exclusive
use during the donors’ lifetimes, or the beneficiaries’ lifetimes, the
actuarial value of the gifts (rather than the full asset or cash values)
determine income tax deductions. But assets approximating $2.5
million will some day benefit Washington and Lee—by adding to en-
dowment, by creating endowed scholarship funds, or through some
other purposes stipulated by the donors.

Among the eventual uses designated by donors during 1983-84
are:

e An endowment for an undergraduate scholarship in honor of
Dr. Charles V. Amole, ’29. Future Amole Scholars will be students
who possess high traits of character and who have records of
outstanding academic achievement.

¢ An endowment creating the Esmarch S. and Sara T. Gilreath
Endowment for Chemistry to support scholarships, lectureships, and
other urgent needs of the department of chemistry.

¢ The establishment of an endowed scholarship in honor of James
Lewis Howe Sr., 718, and in honor of James Lewis Howe AF imi 8 ik
and IV. Howe Scholars are to be students of notable achievement
who require financial assistance in order to attend Washington and
Lee.

 

¢ An endowed scholarship in honor of Russell W. Ingram Jr.,
’45, to be awarded with preference to deserving students from high
schools in the Hollywood and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., areas.

e The creation of an endowed scholarship in honor of Earl T.
Jones, *30. Qualified students from the state of North Carolina will
be eligible to become Jones Scholars.

e A special University Fund in honor of James Bland Martin,
"31L, and the late Christine Hale Martin. Mrs. Martin was a Trustee
of the University from 1978 to 1983.

e Three other University Funds similar to the Martin Fund will be

created in honor of Clyde Nixon Allen, ’25, William L. Webster, 712,
and Carroll B. Wiltshire, ’13.

22

~@

Of the $1,173,120 in combined actuarial values, six unitrusts
amounted to $796,377; two annuity trusts totaled $159,157; and, two
pooled income fund gifts equalled $217,586.

*‘More and more alumni and friends are realizing that they can
substantially benefit Washington and Lee and, at the same time,
engage in helpful tax and financial planning for their families by
making income-retained deferred gifts for the University,’’ noted
William C. Washburn, associate director of development for deferred
giving.

Washburn added that a special publication Non Incautus Futuri,
describes a variety of beneficial income-retained giving methods
available to those who would like to invest, through gifts, in
Washington and Lee’s future. That publication is available from the
Office of University Development, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Milburn K. Noell, also an associate director of development for
deferred giving, observed that many alumni wish to create family
memorials, scholarships, and the like. Said Noell: ‘‘These alumni
often find that they can assure their objectives by making deferred
gifts while enjoying important immediate income tax deductions plus
lifetime incomes.’’

Including last year’s historic deferred giving activity, Washington
and Lee has had 19 unitrusts, six annuity trusts, and 14 pooled
income fund gifts created for the University’s benefit. The
approximate total acturial value of these 39 deferred gifts is in excess
of $9 million.

 

 

 

Non Incautus Futuri: A Guide to
Participation in the Future of
Washington and Lee University is
available from the Office of
University Development.

 

 

The Robert E. Lee Associates

The Board of Trustees established the Robert E. Lee
Associates in 1967 to identify and recognize leadership in sup-
port of the University’s educational program through the An-
nual Fund. Alumni and friends are cordially invited to join

this fellowship.

Qualification for membership: An alumnus, parent, or
friend may join the Robert E. Lee Associates by contributing
$1,000 or more to the University through its Annual Fund for
support of current operations in the educational and general
budget. This gift may be paid in one or more installments
during the fiscal year—July 1 to June 30.

The General’s Council

Edward B. Addison '45

Mrs. William E. Allaun P

Ethan Allen ’31L

James C. Ambler ’18

Frank S. Anderson Jr. ’70

Thomas D. Anderson ’34L

Earle T. Andrews ’25

Billy V. Ayers °40

Lee K. Bailey P

James M. Ballengee ’48L

Richard S. Barnett Jr. ’27

Arthur E. W. Barrett Jr. 55

Frederick Bartenstein Jr. 39, ’41L

Edgar A. Basse Jr. '39

Upton Beall ’51

F. Fox Benton Jr. ’60

Richard H. Berry '57

Dr. William J. Berry ’47

Joseph E. Birnie ’27

Harry L. Bowman ’36

Edgar M. Boyd ’42

Thomas B. Branch Ill 58, ’60L

Irving B. Bricken ’33

Thomas H. Broadus ’25

Dr. A. Compton Broders Jr. ’38

Frank C. Brooks ’46

Frank C. Brooks Jr. ’71

L. Palmer Brown ’30

Robert G. Brown '49

Russell G. Browning '42

W. P. Buckthal P

Ralph R. Burchenal '54

Martin P. Burks Ill ’32L

William O. Burtner °17, '21L

J. Stewart Buxton '36

Cadaver F

Mrs. Alma T. Camp P

Dr. & Mrs. Merton E. Carver F

Charles J. Cella ’58

Benjamin L. Chapman ’64

Charles F. Clarke Jr. ’38

Thomas Hal Clarke ’38L

William N. Clements II '50

Percy Cohen '28

James B. Cone ’61

Noel P. Copen ’57L

Dr. George B. Craddock '30

Rogers L. Crain ’75

Ralph A. Cusick Jr. ’56

H. Tyndall Dickinson ’39, ’41L

Rush S. Dickson Family
Foundation, Inc. P

Harold R. Dobbs ’28

Ben R. Downing Jr. P

E. Waller Dudley °43, ’47L

Mr. & Mrs. Lynn D. Durham P

Joseph F. Ellis Jr. ’43

E. Stewart Epley ’49

John S. Fangboner P

James D. Farquhar '63

D. Blair Favrot P

Benjamin F. Fiery ‘13

24

 

Robert N. Fishburn 755
Edwin J. Foltz ’40L

William F. Ford ’61L

Mr. & Mrs. William B. Fortune P
John G. Fox ’44, ’49L

Virgil L. Frantz ’28

Thomas C. Frost Jr. ’50

C. Thomas Fuller ’42
Robert A. Fulwiler Jr. ’25
Fred O. Funkhouser ’34
William J. Garrity P

John Gately ’46

Claiborne W. Gooch Ill ’50
Harry G. Goodheart Ill ‘66
Floyd D. Gottwald Jr. P
William B. Graham P
Gerard E. Grashorn ’30
Bernard C. Grigsby Il ’72
Gaylord C. Hall Ill 67
Houston H. Harte ’50

Mrs. Oliver H. Havens P
Robert E. Hill ’40

Douglas H. Hunt ’75

Robert E. R. Huntley 50, °57L
Herbert G. Jahncke ’30
Raleigh M. Jenkins '24
David T. Johnson P

H. Reed Johnston ’28
William R. Johnston ’61

Earl T. Jones '30

Stanley A. Kamen ’49L

Dr. Samuel Kampf P
Joseph S. Keelty 44
William H. Keland ’41

Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller Jr. ’39
Ralph C. Kemp P

W. Martin Kempe P

Edward W. King '49

S L Kopald Ur. ’43

Eugene M. Kramer '40
Joseph L. Lanier Sr. ’27
William E. Latture ’49

Leroy M. Lee Jr. ’33

H. Gordon Leggett '54
Charles R. Lemon ’49
William J. Lemon ’55, ’59L
Sydney Lewis ’40

Gerald M. Lively ’38

Hon. Charles E. Long ur. ’32
Joseph T. Lykes Jr. ’41
John M. McCardell ’37
Alfred L. McCarthy ’23L
Lawrence L. McCarthy '29
Samuel P. McChesney ur. ’38
James W. McClintock III 53
Joseph B. McCutcheon ’51
Lewis A. McMurran Jr. ’36
Robert H. Mann Jr. 55, ’57L
J. Hardin Marion ’55, ’58L
Frank Markoe Jr. ’45

Hon. Jack G. Marks ’32
John F. Marshall Jr. ’65
Everett Martin ’37

James Bland Martin ’31L
Oliver M. Mendell ’50

 

General’s Council: A Lee Associate becomes a member of
the General’s Council for cumulative gifts totaling $10,000 or
more in 12 consecutive years or less, or for a pledge to ac-
complish this result. Thus, a donor may fulfill this require-
ment by giving—or pledging to give—$1,000 in any 10 years
out of 12, by making larger gifts at less frequent intervals, or
by a single gift of $10,000 or more.

Listed are members of the General’s Council and those Lee
Associates who made a gift to the Annual Fund of $1,000 or

more during 1983-84.

Mrs. Cornelius W. Middleton F
Edgar B. Miller ’31
Houston M. Minniece ’31
Julian B. Mohr ’52

James P. Morefield ’52L
Edwin A. Morris '26

T. J. Morrison Jr. ’29

John E. Neill ’38

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. ’33, ’35L
Howard B. Peabody Jr. '44
Reginald H. Pettus ’48L

J. Alvin Philpott ’45

James A. Philpott Jr. 69, '72L
Walter B. Potter ’48

Hon. Lewis F. Powell Jr. 29, ’31L
Donald H. Putnam Jr. ’44
Lee A. Putney ‘53

W. Bryce Rea ur. 39, ’41L
William M. Read ’40
William E. Reid P

Mrs. Dorothy B. Rich F
Patterson H. Robertson '65
Robert W. Root ’42
Charles S. Rowe ’45
Josiah P. Rowe Ill ’48

Mr. & Mrs. A. T. Sanders P
John E. Scheifly ’48L

|. M. Scott ’37L

Richard T. Scruggs P
Charles Shapiro P

Otis H. Smith ’31

William H. Smith ’15

Jerry G. South '54

James D. Sparks Sr. ’32L
George M. Spaulding '34
Gen. A. A. Sproul III ’37
John W. Stackhouse ‘55
John M. Stemmons ’31
Guy T. Steuart Il 53
Charles C. Stieff Il ’45
Robert L. Telford ’22
Calvert Thomas '38

Dr. John N. Thomas ’24

J. Thomas Touchton ’60
Everett Tucker Jr. 34
Solon B. Turman F
Richard H. Turrell ’49

John H. Van Amburgh P
M. Theodore Van Leer ’51
David N. Walker ’38
Robert C. Walker ’38
Jonathan W. Warner 41
W. Emory Waters Jr. 68
John F. Watlington Jr. ’33
Herbert M. Weed ’42
David S. Weinberg ‘55

J. Albert Weinberg '31
Manuel M. Weinberg '31L
William E. Whaley Jr. ’40
Walter H. Wilcox ’29
Ernest Williams Il ’38

P. B. Winfree Ill '59
William P. Woodley ’28L
Herbert M. Woodward ’41
Thomas L. Woodward Jr. ’65

 

Frank C. Young '66
George M. Young '54
William K. Young ‘58

3 Anonymous Members

Lee Associates

Edward B. Addison °45
Peter A. Agelasto Ill '62

Dr. & Mrs. Bobby R. Alford P
A. Lewis Allen '58

Ethan Allen ’31L

James C. Ambler °18
William P. Ames Jr. ’41
Frank S. Anderson Jr. ’70
Earle T. Andrews ’25
James B. Andrews 54

C. Dubose Ausley '59

Billy V. Ayers ’40

Lee K. Bailey P

W. D. Bain Jr. ’49L

Seth N. Baker ’38

W. Nat Baker '67

William H. Baldock III 739
James M. Ballengee ’48L
Norwood E. Band '34
Virginius J. Barnett ’30
Arthur E. W. Barrett Jr. °55
William F. Barron Jr. ’52
Frederick Bartenstein Jr. ’39, ’41L
Edgar A. Basse Jr. ’39

Dr. Ralph W. Baucum Jr. ’58
Andrew H. Baur Jr. '37
Allein Beall ’18

Upton Beall ’51

William G. Bean Jr. ’51
Clyde S. Bear ’29

F. Fox Benton Jr. '60
Richard H. Berry '57

T. Anthony Bewley ’70
Howard M. Bing ’63

Alfred T. Bishop Jr. '41

C. Edward Blair ’40

Joseph J. Blake Jr. '72

T. Talbott Bond °51

A. Lea Booth ’40

William M. Bowen ’61
Harry L. Bowman ’36
Edgar M. Boyd 42
Thomas B. Branch Ill 58, ’6OL
Thomas H. Broadus ur. ’59
Charles D. Broll 59, ’62L
Frank C. Brooks ’46

Frank C. Brooks ur. ’71

L. Palmer Brown ’30
William E. Brown ’30
Russell G. Browning '42
Thomas B. Bryant Ill ’59, ’61L
W. P. Buckthal P

Joseph R. Burkart '64

Dr. J. Gillum Burke ’69
Martin P. Burks Ill ’32L
William O. Burtner 17, ’214L

Dr. Calvin T. Burton ’25

J. Stewart Buxton ’36

Cadaver F

John R. Calvert '54

Mrs. Alma T. Camp P

George W. Campbell Jr. P

C. Howard Capito 68

John F. Carrere Jr. ’69

Leigh Carter ’49

Robert S. Cartmill P

Frederick A. Casto ’65L

Charles J. Cella 58

Benjamin L. Chapman '64

John H. Cheatham Jr. ’46

J. Donald Childress ’70

Dr. L. Glenn Christie Jr. 53

Hon. Robert E. Clapp Jr. ’30

John K. Clark ’33

Charles F. Clarke Jr. 38

Thomas Hal Clarke ’38L

William N. Clements II ’50

Malcolm A. Clinger Jr. ’58

John A. Cocklereece '76, '79L

Percy Cohen ’28

James B. Cone ’61

Noel P. Copen ’57L

William E. Cornelius ’55

T. Grantham Couch ’62

William J. Cox '17

Dr. George B. Craddock ’30

Rogers L. Crain ’75

Joseph L. Craycroft Jr. ’59

J. Robert Cross ’54

Richard F. Cummins ’59

Ralph A. Cusick Jr. ’56

Jeb S. Darby ur. ’33

Robert K. Davidson ’37

Calvert G. de Coligny Jr. '61

J. H. DeJarnette °65

Dudley W. Denton ’30

Richard A. Denny Jr. '52, ’54L

Rugeley P. DeVan Jr. 34

H. Tyndall Dickinson ’39, ’41L

Rush S. Dickson Family
Foundation, Inc. P

Ben W. Ditto ’43

Harold R. Dobbs ’28

Ben R. Downing Jr. P

E. Waller Dudley '43, ’47L

Mrs. Thomas P. Duncan Jr. F

Mr. & Mrs. Lynn D. Durham P

Holmes M. Dyer ’34

George E. Eagle '52

Dr. Max L. Elliott ’60

Joseph F. Ellis Jr. °43

Jorge E. Estrada ’69

James D. Farquhar ’63

W. Gilbert Faulk Jr. ’68L

Mark R. Ferdinand ’67L

Lewis M. Fetterman Jr. ’72

Stewart B. Finder ’67L

Norman Fischer ’49

Robert N. Fishburn '55

Charles L. Forbes ’56L

William F. Ford ’6IL

G. Archer Frierson II ’73

Thomas C. Frost Jr. ’50

Fred O. Funkhouser ’34

James F. Gallivan 51

Benjamin D. S. Gambill Jr. '67

William J. Garrity P

Claiborne W. Gooch Ill ’50

Harry G. Goodheart III ’66

David G. Gordon ’69

Floyd D. Gottwald Jr. P

Dr. William M. Gottwald ’70

Gerard E. Grashorn ’30

Edward S. Graves ’30

Robert S. Griffith 52

Bernard C. Grigsby II ’72

Waller C. Hardy Jr. ’39

Houston H. Harte ’50

Mrs. Oliver H. Havens P

Marion G. Heatwold '41, ’46L

Kazimierz J. Herchold '68

Milton T. Herndon ’56L

Robert E. Hill ’40

Clarence E. Hinkle ’25L

Malcolm M. Hirsh °45

 

W. Roy Hogan ’39

David L. Holland ’72
Vernon W. Holleman Jr. ’58
Arthur Hollins tll °51

Samuel B. Hollis °51

William M. Hollis °53

William B. Hoofstitler ‘36
Richard H. Horn ’59L

Farris P. Hotchkiss ’58

C. Royce Hough Ill ’59
Albert C. Hubbard Jr. ’59
Forrest E. Huffman ’36
Thomas J. Hughes ’30
Douglas H. Hunt ’75

J. Ward Hunt ’69

W. Herbert Hunt ’51

Robert E. R. Huntley ’50, ’57L
Charles D. Hurt Jr. '59
Richard A. Hurxthal ’50
Ross J. Interrante P

Clay T. Jackson '76
Herbert G. Jahncke ’30
Raleigh M. Jenkins ’24
Carlton D. Johnson ’49
David T. Johnson P

H. Reed Johnston ’28
William R. Johnston ’61

Earl T. Jones '30

John M. Jones Ill 737

Mrs. Nona J. Jones F
Robert H. Jones ’27L

J. Luther Jordan Jr. '42
John P. Jordan ’44

Stanley A. Kamen ’49L
Joseph S. Keelty °44

Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller Jr. ’39
W. Martin Kempe P

Edward W. King ’49

Walton W. Kingsbery Jr. '48
Walter F. Kirk Jr. ’'37

Mr. & Mrs. John D. Kirkland P
John D. Klinedinst °71L, ’78L
Edward P. Knight P

Donald H. Koontz ’'71

S L Kopald Jr. ’43

Eugene M. Kramer ’40
Richard R. Kreitler °65

Mark A. Krieger Jr. P

Dr. D. Dean Kumpuris ’70
Dr. E. Ross Kyger Il 63

G. Russell Ladd Ill ’57
John L. Lancaster Ill 58
Hon. Allie H. Lane ’43, ’47L
Kenneth P. Lane ’36
Joseph L. Lanier Sr. ’27
Richard P. Laskey ’57
Malcolm Lassman ’60, ’63L
William E. Latture ’49
Thomas O. Lawson ’56
Howard D. Leake ’24
William J. Ledbetter ’50L

H. Drake Leddy ’71

Leroy M. Lee Jr. ’33

H. Gordon Leggett '54
Charles R. Lemon ’49
William J. Lemon ’55, '59L
Harold F. Lenfest ’53
Sydney Lewis ’40

Joseph D. Logan Ill '67L
Michael R. Long ’72
Charles J. Longacre ’33
Charles P. Lykes '39
Joseph T. Lykes Jr. ’41

Dr. John P. Lynch ’30
John M. McCardell ’37
Alfred L. McCarthy ’23L
Samuel P. McChesney ur. ’38
Albert M. McClain ’56
Hayes C. McClerkin 53
Donald H. McClure ’62
Charles T. McCord Ill ‘63
Joseph B. McCutcheon ’51
Joseph S. McDaniel Ill ‘65
James C. McElroy °70

Dr. John R. McGill '67
Wayne D. McGrew '52
Thomas N. McJunkin ’70, 74L
Lewis A. McMurran Jr. ’36
Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr. '26
Robert H. Mann Jr. ’55, °57

 

J. Hardin Marion ’55, '58L

Frank Markoe Jr. ’45

Edwin M. Marks ’37L

J. Stephen Marks III ’59

John F. Marshall Jr. ’65

James Bland Martin ’31L

Paul M. Maslansky '54

Robert W. Mathews ’69

J. Jason Matthews '73

Thomas A. Mattesky '74

Courtney R. Mauzy Jr. ’61

John D. Mayhew ’26

Dr. Floyd R. Mays ur. '38

Frederick A. Meiser Jr. 68

Oliver M. Mendell 50

Joseph Mendelsohn Ill ’52

James A. Meriwether ’70

Mrs. Cornelius W. Middleton F

Edgar B. Miller ’31

Stuart T. Miller ’36

Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhiser P

H. Thorp Minister '49

Houston M. Minniece ’31

Julian B. Mohr ’52

Phillip D. Mollere ’66

Robert J. Moody ’49

James P. Morefield '52L

J. Marvin Moreland dr. 56

Edwin A. Morris '26

Dr. George C. Morris Jr. ’46

A. Payne Morrow '28

John H. Mullin Ill 63

David M. Murray ’52, '55L

John E. Neill ’38

Charles H. Newman Ill 66

Milburn K. Noell Jr. ’51, 54L

William C. Norman Jr. ’56

Henry Nottberg III '71

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. '33, ’35L

J. Richard O'Connell '56

E. Staman Ogilvie ’71

Harry H. Orgain Jr. ’45

Howard B. Peabody ur. ’44

Hon. Albert G. Peery ’31, ’32L

John T. Perry Jr. ’41

F. Lisle Peters Jr. '50

Reginald H. Pettus ’48L

Dr. Harry M. Philpott ’38

James A. Philpott Jr. 69, °72L

J. Alvin Philpott ’45

Dr. George H. Pierson Jr. ’50

Edward F. Pilley ’30

Frederick H. Pitzer Jr. '42

Daniel E. Popovich ’53

Jack B. Porterfield Jr. ’49L

Hon. Lewis F. Powell Jr. ’29
"B1L

Maurice E. Purnell Jr. '61

Donald H. Putnam Jr. ’44

Dr. Louis R. Putnam °52

Lee A. Putney '53

Miss Mary R. Quinlan F

Dr. Harold J. Quinn Jr. °54

William E. Rawlings '53

W. Bryce Rea Jr. ’39, ’41L

William M. Read ’40

Kelley E. Reed ’37

Neil W. Riley ’26

Patterson H. Robertson ’65

Robert W. Root °42

Charles S. Rowe ’45

Josiah P. Rowe Ill ’48

William J. Russell Jr. °57

A. T. Sanders P

Steven B. Sandler ’70

John E. Scheifly ’48L

Mr. & Mrs. Bertram R. Schewel
"A1 :

Mr. & Mrs. Elliott S. Schewel ’45

Mr. & Mrs. Marc A. Schewel ‘69

Stanford L. Schewel ’40L

Francis E. Schmitt ’30

|. M. Scott ’37L

Richard T. Scruggs P

Bernard M. Shapiro ’64

Richard S. Sharlin ’61

Michael W. Sheffey '64

Conway H. Sheild Ill ‘64, °67L

Frontis W. Sherrill '28

 

Frank H. Simmons ’51
Dr. Sanford R. Singer P
Richard T. Sloan ’42
Chadbourne B. Smith ’45
Chester T. Smith Jr. ’53
Hatton C. V. Smith ’73
James W. Smith ’62
Otis H. Smith ’31
Richard W. Smith ’41
William H. Smith °15
Jerry G. South '54
Jason B. Sowell Jr. ’54
James D. Sparks Sr. ’32L
George M. Spaulding ’34
Gen. A. A. Sproul III ’37
John W. Stackhouse °55
Martin E. Stein P
John M. Stemmons ’31
Hon. Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr.
"43

Guy T. Steuart Il 53
Charles C. Stieff Il °45
Edward E. Stover '37L
Robert E. Stroud ’58L
William T. Stuchell Jr. ’30
Charles A. Sweet ’36

Dr. J. Brookins Taylor ’50
Calvert Thomas ’38

Mrs. William O. Thomas F
Roland E. Thompson ’52
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr. °63
Rice M. Tilley Jr. ’58
Conrad H. Todd ’60

J. Thomas Touchton ’60
W. Bryan Trammell Jr. P
Col. John H. Tucker Jr. '10
S. Maynard Turk ’52L
Richard H. Turrell ’49

J. Hoge Tyler Ill *33L
John H. Van Amburgh P
Kenneth B. Van de Water ’41
M. Theodore Van Leer ’51
John W. Vardaman Jr. '62
C. Ganahl Walker ’40
Robert C. Walker ’38
David N. Walker ’38

|. Grier Wallace '35
Jonathan W. Warner ’41
Richard R. Warren '57

Dr. Thomas A. Wash ’51
W. Emory Waters Jr. 68
John F. Watlington Jr. ’33
John A. Webber ’35

W. Temple Webber Jr. '54
Herbert M. Weed ’42
David S. Weinberg ’55

J. Albert Weinberg Jr. '31
Manuel M. Weinberg ’31L
John L. Wellford Jr. ’57
Warren R. Welsh ’61L
Robert F. Wersel ’42
William E. Whaley Jr. ’40
James J. White Ill °51
Robert M. White II ’38
Walter H. Wilcox ’29- -
William M. Wilcox Jr. '47
Maxwell P. Wilkinson ’28
Charles M. Williams '38
Ernest Williams Il ’38
Lewis D. Williams Jr. °37
Dr. John D. Wilson F
William L. Wilson ’38L
William |. Winchester ’58
Sherwood W. Wise ’32, ’34L
John A. Wolf 69, ’72L
Frank B. Wolfe Ill ’61
John F. Wolfe ’65

Thomas K. Wolfe Jr. ’51
James A. Wood ’59
William P. Woodley ’28L
Herbert M. Woodward ’°41
Thomas L. Woodward ur. 65
Raymond E. Wooldridge ’60
Dr. William L. Woolfolk ’25
Richard T. Wright ’42
Frank G. Young ’66
George M. Young ’54
William K. Young ’58

© Anonymous Members

25

Capital Gifts

Listed below are the names of alumni, friends, corpora-
tions, and foundations who made gift commitments either for
some form of endowment or for enlargement or improvement
of the physical plant. Such grants amounted to $1,000,589

during the 1983-84 year.

Robert L. Adams '49

Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Arey F

Stephen E. Arey '75L

Mr. & Mrs. C. N. Baker F

James M. Ballengee '48L

John D. Bassett III ’59

Dr. John T. Bate '19

Clifford B. Beasley Jr. '49

Brian Bell '49

Mrs. Shirley Field Berry F

Arthur A. Birney '50, ’52L

Lorenzo G. Blacksmith F Estate

John G. Boatwright '15 Estate

Mr. & Mrs. Lowell T. Bodiford F

Granville S. R. Bouldin '49, °51L

Bowie's, Inc.

Frank H. Brady '32 Estate

Philip C. Braunschweig '49°

Thomas H. Broadus Jr. '59

Dr. D. Earl Brown Jr. ’49

Thomas B. Bryant Jr. ’28L¢
Estate

Mrs. Ruth W. Bussiere F

J. Stewart Buxton '36

A. J. T. Byrne ’65, ’68L

J. Waller Callison '20

Mr. Caius M. Carpenter F

H. Glenn Chaffer Realty

Palmore Clarke '80

Walter D. Cline Jr. ’33

Ms. Julia Winter Cohen F

Dr. Milton Colvin F

J. Fred Cook '33

C&P Telephone Company of
Virginia

Mrs. Nancy L. Crosby F

Edward W. Curtis '75

Claibourne H. Darden Jr. '66

Ms. Josephine Darner

Ms. Sara K. Darner

Mr. & Mrs. R. J. Darragh P

George E. Dashiell '49

The Arthur Vining Davis
Foundations

Mrs. James R. Denny Ill F

Robert C. DeVaney ’65

Gregory J. Digel ’70, 73L

Mr. & Mrs. Lewis R. Donelson F

Benjamin C. Eastwood '29

Dr. Max L. Elliott 60

E. Stewart Epley ’49

Dr. Robert E. Evans '74

Robert R. Feagin Ill ’60

Dr. William J. Fidler Jr. ’6l

Norman Fischer '49

Henry J. Ford F

Mrs. Maudine Fouts F

J. Carter Fox '6l

Roger M. Fritchie '49

James F. Gallivan ’5]

T. Graham Gibson '29

Thomas R. Glass °49

Hugh Dana Grindy '49

Prof. Roger Groot F

Mrs. G. Kellock Hale Jr. F

Col. & Mrs. Warren W. Halstead F

Judge Lapsley W. Hamblen Jr. F

Mrs. John L. Hart F

Ms. Constance R. Harvey F

Andrew Hemm '76

Dean Edward O. Henneman F

26

 

The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation

Harry H. Hill Jr. ’49

Mrs. Ruth Beebe Hill F

Mrs. Margaret C. Hird F

Mr. & Mrs. W. F. Hirschmann P

Mrs. Ruth F. Howe F

Alton R. Hyatt F

A. M. Janney '29

Dr. William A. Jenks '39

David D. Johnson '21 Estate

Henry P. Johnston Sr. '29

Robert R. Kane Ill ’54L

Joseph S. Keelty '44

Dr. Emory Kimbrough Jr. F

Dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. F

Jack D. Kopald ’78L

Bert Kyle '49

W. Hanes Lancaster Jr. '46

Joseph L..Lanier Sr. '27

William E. Latture '49

Mr. & Mrs. Charles Laughlin F

Maurice D. Leach F

Robert B. Lee ’29

Robert E. Lee IV '49

The Leggett Foundation

H. Gordon Leggett Jr. '54

Ainsley J. Lester Ill '58

Mrs. J. Edward Lewis F

The Sydney and Frances Lewis
Foundation

Mrs. Alma C. Lippincott F

Adrian L. McCardell '29

J. W. McClintock III '53

Michael S. McCord '65

John S. McGuinness F

Miss Leila L. McKnight F

Ms. MaryJoe McNeely F

William A. MacDonough ’29

Mrs. Ross L. Malone F

Robert H. Mann Jr. '55

J. Stephen Marks ’59

Courtney R. Mauzy Jr. ’61

The Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhiser F

H. Thorp Minister Jr. '49

Ms. Margaret N. Monroe F

Montessori Children’s House

Mrs. W. W. Moorman F

Mr. & Mrs. J. P. Morefield '52L

Allen and Elise Morgan
Advised Fund

Col. Paul J. B. Murphy Jr. '49

National Endowment for the
Humanities

Dr. Harry B. Neel '28

Neighbor's Fund, Inc.

Mrs. Marie Nelson F

Mr. & Mrs. S. R. Nichols '30

William A. Noell Jr. 64

Matthew W. Paxton Jr. '49

Miss E. Ashley Payne F

Mrs. Alexandra N. Peirez P

Dr. & Mrs. Marvin Perry Jr. F

Prof. J. Timothy Philipps F

Parker B. Potter Jr. '79

Dr. John W. Poynor ’62

Robert R. Reid Jr. '49

Edward B. Robertson '67

Rollwage-Alderson-Morse
Foundation

 

Capt. & Mrs. E. C. Rook F

A. Prescott Rowe '60

William C. Ruble '49

James J. Salinger '29

William G. Sargent '29

Saunders & Company

William B. Sawers Jr. '60

John S. R. Schoenfeld '49

Ms. Joan M. Shaughnessy F

Gen. & Mrs. George R. E. Shell F

Eva K. Sheppard Charitable
Lead Trust F

Leo J. Signaigo Jr. '43

Arthur Simmons '29

Mrs. Catherine Terrell Smith F

L. Vernon Snyder '49

John W. Stackhouse '55

Dr. Buford S. Stephenson '42

Judge Roscoe B. Stephenson
Jr. '43, '47L

Peter R. Strohm ’68

Henry M. Strouss Ill '61

H. Webster Stull P

James P. Sunderland '50

 

Bernard Talley ‘50

Dr. E. L. Taylor Jr. ’49

Dr. Pendleton Tompkins '27

J. Thomas Touchton '60

John Bell Towill '29L

The J. Edwin Treakle
Foundation, Inc.

Charles Tait Trussell '49

Mrs. Elizabeth T. Jones Turner F

Richard H. Turrell '49

Dr. E. D. Vaughan Jr. '61

Mrs. Mary Lee Jones Virden F

Kenneth H. Wacker '49

Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.

Dean William J. Watt F

Ms. Sally D. Whelden F

Judge H. E. Widener Jr. '53L

Walter H. Wilcox ’29

Dr. John H. Wise F

Thomas P. Wright '29

The Wythe Corporation

Richard M. Yankee Jr. '49

3 Anonymous Gifts

 

Foundations

Because a foundation’s grant to an educational institution
is a highly respected public endorsement of the institution’s
leadership and educational program, Washington and -Lee
acknowledges with special gratitude the gifts it received from
foundations in support of current operations in 1983-84.
(Other foundation grants are listed in the section describing

gifts for capital purposes.)

Martha Jane & James E.
Anthony Foundation, Inc.

Beckett-Jones Charitable Trust

B GC L Foundation, Inc.

D. S. Blount Educational
Foundation

Charleston Foundation for
Research

Communities Foundation of
Texas, Inc.

The Westmoreland Davis
Memorial Foundation, Inc.

The Eisenman Foundation

Edward Chase Garvey
Memorial Foundation

 

Goldsmith Foundation, Inc.

The Sydney & Frances Lewis
Foundation

Mamie F. Martel Trust

McCasland Foundation

National Science Foundation

Mary Moody Northen, Inc.

Oak Park-River Forest
Community Foundation

The Richard Nelson Ryan
Foundation

Whitehall Foundation, Inc.

 

The Annual Fund:
Academic Classes

The Annual Fund is Washington and Lee’s
most vital source of gift income. Listed here are
the names of alumni who contributed to the
1983-84 Annual Fund. Their gifts helped
Washington and Lee continue the high quality of
its educational program. Those donors whose
names are followed by (¢) are members of the
Lee Associates and made gifts of $1,000 or more
in 1983-84; donors whose names are followed by
(*) are Colonnade Club members and made
gifts of $100-$999 in 1983-84.

CLASS OF 1910-A
John H. Tucker Jr.¢

CLASS OF 1912-A
William M. Miller

CLASS OF 1913-A

Edward S. Delaplaine
Carroll B. Wiltshire x

CLASS OF 1914-A

J. Goodloe Jackson Jr. *
Julian W. Selig

CLASS OF 1915-A

Leslie S. Anderson *
Evans Dunn

Millard F. Hays*
Woodson P. Houghton *
Rupert N. Latturex
William H. Smithe

Paul C. Thomas

CLASS OF 1916-A

L. Battle Bagley
C. Lynch Christian *
Edwin B. Shultz *

CLASS OF 1917-A

J. Withers Blake
William O. Burtnere
Joseph R. Campbell x
William J. Coxe
Archie E. Cruthirds
John L. Early

Morris H. Hester
Curtis C. Humphris
W. Calvin Wells x

CLASS OF 1918-A

James C. Amblere

Allein Beall Jr.

Edmund D. Campbell Sr.
Alfred C. Crymble
James L. Howe Jr.
Adolph S. Marx*
Matthew W. Paxton Sr. *
Virgil J. Trotter Jr. *
Samuel W. Winebrenner

CLASS OF 1919-A

Theodore H. Evans
Irving M. Lynn*
Craig H. Patterson
Tiley H. Scovell Jr. *
Allen Wescott *

 

CLASS OF 1920-A

J. Waller Callison

Eric B. Hallman

H. Douglas Jones *
Emmett W. Poindexter x
Henry F. Trotter *

CLASS OF 1921-A

H. Gray Funkhouser
William A. Gibbons Jr. *
Samuel L. Raines
David C. Storey

CLASS OF 1922-A

Benjamin J. Broach
Robert S. Cherry Jr. *
James A. Cranford *
W. Franklin Portlock *
W. Ashton Powell
Dewey A. Reynolds
Samuel L. Sanderson
William H. Trotter Jr. *

CLASS OF 1923-A

Robert L. Berryman
George H. Bowers Jr.
Melville |. Dunn Jr. *
R. Maurice Frew
Judson B. Holloway *
Frank B. Hurt
Weldon T. Kilmon*
Ainsley J. Lester Jr. *
Joseph W. McDonald Jr. *
George C. Mason Jr. *
J. Vaughn Penn*

R. Winter Royston *
Kenneth R. Smith

D. Raymond Snively
Thomas M. Wade Jr. *

CLASS OF 1924-A

E. Almer Ames Jr.
Percy D. Ayres*

J. Paul Brawner*
Edmund M. Cameron
John A. Cummins
William S. Gay Sr. *
John G. Guerrant x
Andrew H. Harriss Jr.
Raleigh M. Jenkinse
Henry W. Jones *
Robert L. King*

Will P. Kirkman*
Howard D. Leakee
Robert T. Merritt
Albert Newman *

 

Francis W. Plowman*
Turner Rice *

Barrett C. Shelton Sr. x
H. Ogden Shropshire *
Glenn R. Stoutt *

John Newton Thomas *
Norfleet Turner *

CLASS OF 1925-A

Earle T. Andrewse
Robert F. Bolling Jr.
Calvin T. Burtone
Elmore G. Dufour
Bruce F. Gannaway *
Robert F. Goodrich *
Frank T. Mitchell
Andrew T. Roy*
Joe Shuman *

Allan P. Sloan*
Edgar J. Spady *
William L. Woolfolke

CLASS OF 1926-A

B. Campbell Blake *
Jack G. Chapman
Almand R. Colemanx
Wilton W. Conner
William W. Davis*
Fred W. Dismukex
Rufus A. Fulton
Russell L. Gordon
Charles H. Hamilton
James R. Hendrix *
Kenneth C. Kimbrough *
Charles W. Lowry
John G. McGiffin Jr. *
Emmett W. MacCorklee
William R. Marchman
John D. Mayhewe
Thomas T. Moorex
Edwin A. Morrise
Harry Pfeffer *

Neil W. Rileye

Paul M. Schuchart
Thomas L. Seehorn
Ernest L. Smith
William F. Smith

Hugh B. Sproul Jr.
Digby C. West *
George B. Wilkinson
James N. Williams *
W. Burke Williamson
Henry M. Wilson*

CLASS OF 1927-A

Joseph E. Birnie
Walter R. Bishop *
George E. Burks *
Charles G. Burton
Allen M. Clauss

H. Reese Coleman *
George T. Ellisx
Allen Harris Jr. *
Thomas L. Harris *
Henry A. Ingalls Jr. *
William M. Jennings
Joseph L. Lanier Sr.e
Zed C. Layson®
Robert P. London Jr. *
Reginald V. Milbank*
Russell G. Miller *
Alexander S. Moffett *
J. Preston Moore*x
Wilson A. Orr

John B. Perry dr.

C. W Clark Poole
Burchard S. Pruett x
R. Wilbur Simmons
Robert E. Stevenson *
George W. Summerson
Alfred F. Taylor
Robert F. Thompson *
David H. Wice*x

 

CLASS OF 1928-A

John W. Alderson *
Walter D. Bachx
Lester A. Brown*®
Joseph B. Clower Jr.
Percy Cohene

Harold R. Dobbse
William C. Drewry *
John B. Ecker *
Julius Goldstein x
Thurlow C. Guinn*
Roger J. Haller
John S. Hanckel *
Carl V. Harris *

Van A. Halloman Sr. *
Gerald F. Horine

H. Reed Johnstone
Joseph J. Kaplan*
William J. Luriax
Willett C. Magruder Jr. *
A. Payne Morrowe
Emil J. Sadloch
Frontis W. Sherrille
John L. Stuart Jr.
Howard K. Tayloe*
Maxwell P. Wilkinsone
Stuard A. Wurzburger
John M. Yarbrough *

CLASS OF 1929-A

Charles V. Amolex
Clyde S. Beare

Richard D. Carver
James A. Castner
William F. Chandler
Hugh D. Ebert

Royal B. Embree Jr. *
Earl A. Fitzpatrick x

E. Lee Gamble

T. Graham Gibson *
Harry E. Godwin
George H. Goodwin*
Gale B. Haley x

Asa M. Janney

Franklin P. Johnson Il *
Henry P. Johnston Sr. *
Benjamin P. Knight Jr. *
Robert B. Leex

John M. Luft

Adolphus L. Lunsford
Adrian L. McCardell Jr. *
William A. MacDonough *
William W. Pacex
Francis T. Parker Jr.
Robert W. Pharr *
Walter N. Pharrx

Lewis F. Powell Jr.e
Vernon R. Preston *
John S. Ragland*
Henry A. Renken
James J. Salinger

Irwin T. Sanders
William G. Sargent
Alfred |. Schlossberg ®
James M. Shackelford
Arthur D. Simmons *

O. Norris Smith
Kenneth E. Spencer *
Walter H. Wilcoxe
Thomas P. Wright *

CLASS OF 1930-A

William T. Alsop
Virginius J. Barnette
Franklin R. Bigham *
L. Palmer Brown llle
William E. Browne
Henry F. Bullard *
Robert E. Clapp Jr.e
Charles W. Cockex
George B. Craddocke
John P. Davis *
Robert W. Davis Jr. x
Dudley W. Dentone
Frank O. Evans Sr.

 

Justin E. Farrell

Idus D. Felder Jr. *
Isaac L. Flory Jr.*
Lawrence Y. Footex
Gerard E. Grashorne
Edward S. Gravese
Stanley F. Hampton *
James N. Hess *
Thomas J. Hughes Jr.e
Herbert G. Jahnckee
George M. Jennings *
Earl T. Jonese

Virgil C. Jones

Murrel H. Kaplan *
Fred B. King Jr.

Harry C. Lawder III
Charles |. Lewis *
Philo Lindsey

Bryan T. Lloyd*
John P. Lynche
Robert V. May*
James B. Merrickx
Gus E. Mitchell Jr. *
John A. Mitchell

John H. Nelson
Edward F. Pilleye
Duval Radford
Alexander L. Roberson Jr. *
James R. Roberts
Leon R. Robison Jr. *
Francis E. Schmitte
Harold E. Slanker
George A. Sprinkel III
William T. Stuchell Jr.e
Merle Suter *

James W. Tankard
William G. Tarrant Jr. *
Jack Thorington Jr.

J. Marshall Vaught
Jack A. Williamson *

CLASS OF 1931-A

John H. Beury *
Leonard C. Borland
Charles A. Bowes*
Watson A. Bowes
Lawton M. Calhoun*
Robert S. Chapin*
Sidney W. Clay*
Walter E. Coe
Thomas S. Fox
Redmond B. Gautier Jr. *
Bradford E. Haley x
Elbert E. Hall «x

Julius Halpern *

John H. Hardwick*
A. McGehee Harvey *
O. Kenneth Hickman x
Paul A. Hornor*
Eugene Johnson *
William L. Jones *
George Junkin

Merle G. Kaetzel *
Beverly J. Lambert Jr. *
Talcott C. Lancaster
Frank B. Leverette

A. Bernard Levine
James L. Lytle Jr.
Duncan McConnell
Henry R. Mahler Jr.
Edgar B. Millere
Houston M. Minniecee
William C. Morris
Gilmore N. Nunn*
James K. Osterman*
Charles Peeper *
Reno R. Porter *
James C. Rash Jr.
James L. Rimler*
William V. Rucker *
Stuart Sanders II *
Myron A. Schrantz
Otis H. Smithe
George H. Snyder Jr.
John M. Stemmonse

27

John A. Stuart Jr. *
John H. Thomas Jr. *
Wallace N. Tiffany x

L. Alexander Vance *
Stanley D. Waxberg *
J. Albert Weinberg Jr.e
Harold M. Weston *
Walter F. Williams *

CLASS OF 1932-A

Erwin J. Ade

C. Edmonds Allen*
John D. Clothier Jr. *
Richard M. Coe
Robert C. Conner*
Everett N. Cross *
David F. Crossen
Allan S. DeLand*®
Irving E. Dobbs *
Charles E. Duncan

Eli H. Finkx

Sollace M. Freeman
Hunter B. Frischkorn Jr. *
Charles B. Fulton
John G. Hamilton*
John C. Harris*

J. Robert Hornor*®
William D. Hoyt Jr. *
Isaac F. Hudson
Walter W. Hunzicker Jr. *
Leonard W. Johnson
J. Shiers Jones *
John F. Ladd*
Thomas N. Layne
Charles E. Long Jr. *
Millard R. Louis
Charles C. Love

E. Carlyle Lynch Jr. *
Robert L. McBride *
Harry L. McCarthy *
James W. McLaurin®
Eugene P. Martin Jr. *
Robert F. Nelson*
Henry W. Northup
James S. Pollak

David G. Pricex
Kenneth R. Routon
Arthur B. Scharff
Randolph T. Shields Jr. *
J. Bernard Spector
Jack J. Stark*

Haven Walton*

Harry L. Williams Jr.
Beverly R. Wilson Jr. *
Sherwood W. Wisee
Paul H. Wofford Jr. *
Samuel S. Woody Jr.
Joseph L. Wright*
John W. Zimmerman*

CLASS OF 1933-A

Harold B. Abramson *
Reuben B. Armistead
Frank R. Bailey x
William S. Barker *
Ralph C. Barnett x

T. Deale Blanchard
Irving B. Bricken*
William J. Brooks Jr. *
Frank E. Calhoun*x
Edwin W. Chittum
John K. Clarke

James F. Cook

John D. Copenhaver x
M. Hoge Crighton Jr. x
John D. Crowl*

John A. Culley
Theodore M. Curtis
Jeb S. Darby Jr.e
William T. Devan*
William H. Flowers Jr. x
William D. Gunter
George H. Hagadorn Jr. x
Gray W. Hume Jr. *
Cary F. lrons Jr. *
John W. Jones

C. Robert Kaplan*
William C. Kimbrell *

28

 

Leroy M. Lee Jr.e
Charles J. Longacree
Neil Z. Meredith x
William F. Methvin Jr.
Frank B. Mooers Jr. *
John L. Mosby
Stanley S. Mundy*
Thomas O. Murphey *
G. William Musser *

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.e
Walter J. Pound®
Edward H. Pringlex
Homer G. Ray ur.

lra H. Samelson

Henry V. Saunders *
James W. A. Smith Jr.
Robert R. Smith

Emil L. Stevens
George L. Stout
Charles F. Suter*
Allen D. Symonds
Cromwell E. Thomas *
John F. Watlington Jr.e
William A. Williamson *
John A. Womeldorf

CLASS OF 1934-A

Norwood E. Bande
W. W. Barron*

John D. Battle Jr. *
Darby W. Betts
James A. Black*
Thomasson M. Boland
Amos A. Bolen*
Robert L. Buffington x
Robert |. Bull

Frank J. Burkart*

J. Duncan Burn
Joseph A. Burton*
Kenneth R. Cole
Charles C. Collier *
John H. Cookex
John J. Cuomo*
Isadore E. Dattel
Rugeley P. Devan Jr.e
Dan T. Dunn Sr. *
James D. Dyex
Holmes M. Dyere
Robert C. Dyer *

Samuel M. Englehardt ur.

Leslie A. Faudreex
Robert E. Field*
Fred O. Funkhousere
Hunter E. Gaylor*
Richard W. Grafton
Henry L. Haines
John S. Haines *

F. Hadley Hamilton Jr.
Bernard G. Harless
Milton L. Harris *®
Claude Harrison Jr. *
Charles O. Hearon Jr.
William T. Homberg *
Maxwell B. Hostetter
Edward S. Jacobs
John T. Jarrett *

M. Alexander Jones *
Henry L. King Jr.
William O. Leffell
Donald S. Levinson*
Robert C. McCardell x
George D. McClure *
Gilbert C. McKown
Victor F. Marshall *
Olin K. Miller

William J. Moran Jr.
Scott Mosovich x
Joseph C. Muller
Foster McCrum Palmer *
Neil C. Pascoe*x
Francis L. Patton*
George W. Pedigo Jr.
Edwin H. Pewett*
James O. Phelps Jr. *
George W. Price
Harvey Pridex
Charles A. Pritchard
George L. Reynolds *
William H. Robinson *

 

Herbert Rudlin*
Robert W. Ruth
James T. Rutherford
Richard Sale x
Claude E. Sanford *
Robert B. Shively *
John F. Shroder
Howard F. Smith
George M. Spauldinge
Daniel B. Startsman*x
John H. Thomas*
Everett Tucker Jr. *
Robert K. Turney
William B. Tyree
Henry Waller Jr.
James M. Whitex
Ralph D. Whitley

CLASS OF 1935-A

Claude H. Barrickx
David J. Bennett Jr.
Guy H. Branaman Jr.
Edward W. Chappell Jr. *
Thomas L. Coley Jr.
Robert F. Cooper Jr. *
George E. Crisp
Claibourne H. Darden®
William P. Diggs Jr.
Charles E. Elbrick
Leighton P. Everhart
Norman S. Fitzhugh Jr.
William R. Fox

James M. Franklin x
Clifford J. Freund
John E. Friend
Beardsley A. Gammel Jr.
Loyal P. Gassman*
Ferdinand A. Hauslein
L. Leslie Helmer *
Albert T. Hickin
Norman F. Hill

Leroy Hodges Jr.
Benjamin B. Hope

H. Harrison Huster *
James P. Jordan*

D. Lyle Kinnear x
Eugene E. Krewson
Carney G. Laslie Jr.
William D. McDavid
George J. McGeory*
Lewis W. Martin®
Samuel C. Mattox
Gus Morgan*

Albert W. Moss *
Robert S. Munger *
John A. Newton

John B. Nicholson Jr.
William C. Orth
Charles F. Porzig

N. Joe Rahall«

Henry L. Ravenhorst *
Harry M. Rhett Jr. *
Thomas T. Richards Jr.
George E. Short
Winthrope C. Smithx
John D. Spohr*
Frederick D. Strong*
Jo M. VanZanat
Charles L. Walker Jr.
|. Grier Wallace Jr.e
Donald R. Wallis Sr. *
John A. Webbere
Thomas K. Williams
William A. Wilson *
Peyton B. Winfree Jr.
James S. Woods Jr.

CLASS OF 1936-A

William M. Allen
William C. Barbee x
J. Vaughan Beale x
Harry L. Bowmane
Edward S. Boze Jr.
Harry J. Breithaupt Jr.
J. Stewart Buxtone
Duncan Corbett x
Robert F. Corrigan
Joseph T. Drake Jr. *
W. Magruder Drake x

 

Walter B. Eager Jr. *
Edgar E. Eaton Jr.*
Julius E. Garber
Harry George Jr. *
William W. Gerber *
Joel Grayson Ill *
Joseph J. Harding Jr. *
Arthur E. Hauck®
Charles W. Hawks *
George M. B. Hawley II
John T. Herwick *
Omer L. Hirst *
William B. Hoofstitlere
Forrest E. Huffmane
William S. Johnson *
Alfred Kahn Jr.

Martin Z. Kaplan
Kenneth P. Lanee
Bruce N. Lanierx
Walter T. Lawton Jr.
Leonard Leight

Lewis A. McMurrane
Kenneth G. MacDonald *
George S. Maury Jr. *
Stuart T. Millere
George R. Myers*

C. Hooper Phillips Ill «
Frank L. Price

James L. Price Jr.
William A. Rawakx
Alfred L. Reeser
William T. Riley
James A. Robertson *
Richard T. Scully x
Edward L. Seitz*x
Jacob S. Seligman*
|. Glenn Shively x
Ralph H. Smith*
Henry H. Staehling
Charles A. Sweete
Rene L. Tallichet x
Joe B. Thomas *
Thomas R. Thomas *
Edward A. Turvillex
S. Adrian Whiteside x
Tyree F. Wilson*

CLASS OF 1937-A

William H. Armentrout
Ernest C. Barrett Jr. *
Stanley Barrows *
Andrew H. Baure

Karl E. Beamer *
Porter Duane Berry *
Douglas E. Brady Jr. x
A. Austin Bricker Jr. *
Morton A. Brown
James S. Bruce *

Charles A. Butterworth Jr.

James A. Byers *
Louis P. Cashman Jr. *
William A. Clary
Eugene G. Clayton
Given W. Cleek
Robert V. Colex
William H. Daniel *
Robert K. Davidsone
Raymond F. Dustin
William D. Ellis*
Herbert E. Fenner Jr.
William D. Fishback x
Robert V. Flint
Robert E. Graham *
Randolph V. Hall x
Charles K. Hauke x
Robert C. Hoff x
Norman P. ller*
John M. Jones Ille
Phillip S. Jones *
Walter F. Kirk Jr.e
William A. Landreth *
Victor R. LaVolpe*x
Stephen B. Lee
William T. Long*
George W. Lowry *
John M. McCardelle
Alexander Mclintosh
Harold C. Magoon
C. Arnold Matthews *

 

Donald R. Moore x
Douglas J. Munhall*x
William P. Neal

Stuart B. Over Jr. *
Michael A. Perna
Theodore M. Plowden*
Albert A. Radcliffe x
John W. Ray*

Donald C. Redfield Jr. *
Kelley E. Reed Jr.e
James H. Rice Jr.
Edwin Rich®

Thomas B. Ripy*
Howell W. Roberts Jr.
Charles E. Roth x
Parke S. Rouse Jr.*
Arthur W. Sinclair *
Alexander E. Sproul *
Archibald A. Sproul Ille
Richard K. Stuart *
Walter G. Thomas *
John J. Vandale*x
William T. Watkins
Charles R. Watt
Latham B. Weber *
John D. Wiggins *
William C. Wilbur Jr. *
Frank J. Williams Jr.
Lewis D. Williams Jr.¢
Fillmore G. Wilson*
Laurence W. Wilson Jr. *
Clark B. Winter

Alfred H. Wishnew
Frank H. Yaffex

CLASS OF 1938-A

Arthur H. Alexander

R. Tate Alexander
Norman Allison

Ben L. Anderson*
Edwin D. Axton Jr. *
William B. Bagbey x
Seth N. Bakere

William C. Baker Jr. *
Robert M. Basile
George F. Bauer Jr. *
James C. Beale Jr.
Chandler P. Berryman*
Arthur L. Bice

A. Compton Broders Jr. *
Jerry A. Burke Jr.
William S. Burns *
William H. Byrn*&
Charles F. Clarke Jr.e
Thomas B. Cottingham *
Paul H. Darsiex

James M. Davidson Jr.
Robert R. Finn

J. Oliver Gluyas *
David W. Heath

Frank Jones Jr.

Landon Y. Jones*
Oliver K. Jones Jr. *
Edward F. Kaczka
George Stevenson Kemp Jr. *
Gerald M. Livelyx
Samuel P. McChesney Jr.¢
Thomas A. Malloy Jr.
Donald N. Maloy *
Floyd R. Mays Jr.e
Gilbert S. Meem*

Paul M. Miller *®

John E. Neille

James R. Parkey Jr. *
John E. Perry

John S. Petot Jr. *
Harry M. Philpotte
Charles A. Prater x

C. Paul Reed Jr.
Sidney N. Repplier
Stuart M. Reynolds

E. Alton Sartor Jr. *
Chester Schept *
Alphonse J. Sherman

J. Chester Shively
Courtland N. Smith Jr. *
J. Hiram Smith *

J. McLain Stewart x
Wendell R. Stoops *

 

 

SO ag sos

Spc TN

Robert E. Surles*

W. Saxby Tavel *
Calvert Thomase

Earl C. Thompson Jr. *
E. Sidney Vaughn Jr. *
David N. Walkere
Ernest B. Walker Jr.
Robert C. Walkere
Fred E. Waters Jr. *
Robert M. White lle
Charles M. Williamse
Ernest Williamse

CLASS OF 1939-A

Hugh P. Avery

William H. Baldock Ille
Frederick Bartenstein Jr.
Edgar A. Basse Jr.e
Alexander W. Blain III
Murray O. Both

Philip R. Brooks
Robert A. Brower
Arthur E. Buck Jr.
Edward F. Burrows
Martin C. Cassett *
Thomas W. Christopher
J. Francis Coffey
Marvin K. Collie x
Rogers M. Cox*

Allen B. Craig Jr.
Melvin E. Cruser Jr. *
H. Tyndall Dickinsone
James S. Dudley *
Randolph M. Duncan*
J. Donald Eackles
Andrew M. Eastwick Jr.
Warren H. Edwards *
Harold L. Fenton Jr. *
John T. Fey*

James W. Fishel «x
Sherwin B. French*x
John B. Furr

Charles G. Gilmore
George E. Goodwin*
George C. Graff*x
Charles L. Guthrie Jr.
Harvey L. Handley Jr. *
Frank M. Hankins Jr. *
Waller C. Hardy Jr.e
Charles R. Hart*
Robert W. Hilton Jr. *
W. Roy Hogane

Henry R. Hornex

Neil T. Houston *
Christoph Keller Jr.e
George C. Kerr

Joe W. Lydick*
Charles P. Lykese
Frank X. McNicol
David K. McNish
Ferdinand P. Maupai
Cass A. Mayo Jr. *
Gwynn W. Merritt *
Robert E. Milligan Jr. *
Patrick S. Mullins Jr.
James E. Murphy
George T. Myers*
James C. Paera

John A. Parkins *
James W. Perkinson
Victor F. Radcliffe x

W. Bryce Rea Jr.
Harry E. Redenbaugh*
Wilfred J. Ritz

John R. Robinson
Randolph D. Rouse *
Richard S. Rudex
James A. Saltsman Jr. *
Charles H. Semple dr. *
Wilbert T. Shafer

Edgar F. Shannon Jr. *
John H. Sherrill Jr. *
Herbert C. Sigvartsen *
Donald C. Smith

G. Murray. Smith Jr. x
Maurice J. Swan Jr.
Elton H. Thuranx
Stockton H. Tyler Jr.
Charles M. Wall

 

John H. Ward Ill *
J. Warren White Jr.
Philip K. Yonge

CLASS OF 1940-A

Jackson G. Akin®
John G. Alnutt

Billy V. Ayerse

Grover C. Baldwin Jr. *
Frank S. Beazlie Jr. *
James ‘H. Bierer x
Joseph A. Billingsley Jr. *
C. Edward Blaire

A. Lea Boothe
Edward E. Brown Jr. *
Thomas E. Bruce Jr. *
Donald T. Burton
William E. Buxton*
Lawrence E. Carson*
John B. Cleveland *
Custis L. Colemanx
Uriah F. Coulbourn*
Michael P. Crocker *
Charles C. Curl Jr. *
Solomon Diamond
Hamilton G. Disbrow Jr. *
Charles R. Disharoon*
Theodore Donaldson
John C. Easterberg
Temple J. English Jr.
Sion A. Faulk*

Fred A. Feddeman*
Roland S. Freeman*
James P. Fristoe
Robert A. Fuller
Robert L. Gayle
George M. Grasty *
Matthews A. Griffith x
Jerome A. Heldman*
T. Kennedy Helm Jr. *
Ross V. Hersey x
Hamilton Hertz *
Robert E. Hille

Robert C. Hobson *
Curg H. Hogan*
Joseph Hunter

Robert S. Hutcheson Jr.
G. Watson James Ill *
John W. Johnston*
William R. Jones*
William W. Kastner Jr. *
Lee M. Kennax
Eugene M. Kramere
Charles P. Lewis Jr. *
Lorenzo C. Lewis
Sydney Lewise

Kelley Litteral x

Mervin H. Luriax
Melvin R. McCaskill *
M. Tom McClure
Arthur W. Mann Jr. *
Harry C. Mason
Wilbur S. Metcalf Jr.
Joseph R. Mighell Ill x
Andrew M. Moore*x
Franklin A. Nichols
George C. Nielsen*

_Louis F. Plummer x

Richard M. Radcliffe x
William M. Reade
Peyton E. Rice*«
Jerome A. Sacks
Hans A. Schmitt

Fred D. Shellabarger x
Howard T. Shepherd *
Lee Spaulding
Charles O. Turner*

C. Ganahl Walker Jr.e
William B. Walker Jr. *
William C. Washburn *
William E. Whaley Jr.e
Ernest Woodward Il *«

CLASS OF 1941-A
Robert H. Adams *
William P. Amese
Benjamin F. Ashcroft *
Arthur W. Avent
Lupton Avery

 

Alfred T. Bishop Jr.e
Gale C. Boxill x

Thomas S. Brizendine
Thomas W. Brockenbrough
Paul D. Brown
Theodore A. Bruinsma*
Francis C. Bryan®
William Buchanan *
James R. Burkholder III
Charles H. Chapman Jr. *
James F. Cunningham
Lecompte K. Davis *

G. Richard Day *
Cameron Dean*
William J. Douglas

John D. Durham
Chester Eccleston *
William L. Evans Jr. *
Frederic B. Farrar *
Otis C. Ferrell Jr.

Alvin T. Fleishman*
Kiah T. Ford Jr.
Hamilton P. Fox Jr. *

N. Charlton Gilbert «
Donald J. Godehn«
Walter D. Harrod
Marion G. Heatwolee

J. Sherman Henderson *
Richard M. Herndon
Charles L. Hobson *
Egmont Horn®
Macauley Howard
Edward E. Hunter Jr.
Franklin W. Hynson*
Robert McLean Jeter Jr. *
F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick *
Guy Labaw

John H. Lawrence *
Robert E. Lee

Ralph E. Lehrx

Joseph T. Lykese
James R. McConnell x
George K. McMurran*
Thomas L. Martin
Thomas G. Morris
William A. Murray *
James F. Norton®
Robert C. Peery *

John T. Perry Jr.e
Robert C. Petrey

Robert H. Porter Jr.
James H. Price Jr.
James B. Richardson Jr.
Macey H. Rosenthal *
John H. Rozelle *
James A. Russell Jr. x
Bertram R. Schewele
William L. Shannon
Arthur C. Smith Jr. *
Harry L. Smith

Richard W. Smithe
Robert E. Steele Ill «x
Robert L. Stein

Francis T. Strangx
Joseph G. Street

James D. Taylor*
Charles G. Thalhimer*
Edward H. Trice Jr.
Thomas S. Tuley Jr.
Kenneth B. Vandewater Jr.e
Clinton VanvVliet *
Herbert VanVoast

Carl L. Varner

Benton M. Wakefield Jr. *
Claude M. Walker *
Jonathan W. Warnere
John W. Weathers
Marvin S. Winter *
Herbert M. Woodward ur.¢

CLASS OF 1942-A

William C. Amick Jr.

John Barrie Jr. *

Edgar M. Boyde
Lawrence J. Bradford *
Edward W. Brockman Jr. *
Frederick T. Bromm*

Ned H. Brower *

Russell G. Browninge

 

 

Richard A. Brunn*

F. Gregg Burger
Robert F. Campbell Jr.
Donald S. Carnahan Jr. *
Robert Cavannax
Evan Alevizatos Chriss *
Thomas A. Clark*
Kenneth S. Clendaniel
Edwin C. Cuttinox

W. John Daniel
Charles P. Didier
Lanson B. Ditto Jr. *
John L. Dorsey *
Gustave A. Essig *
James E. Foard*
Charlton T. Fuller*
Robert D. Gage Ill x
C. Tom Garten

W. Scott Gilmer

Louis C. Greentree x
Joseph H. Grubbs Jr.
William B. Gunn
James S. Hill*

Alex M. Hitz Jr.
William B. Hopkins
Sidney Isenberg *
William E. Jennings *
Horace H. Jeter*

W. Marshall Johnson *
J. Luther Jordan Jr.e
Frank L. LaMotte Jr.
Andrew S. Lanier *
Robert A. Lawton
Beverley W. Lee Jr.
Daniel C. Lewis Jr. *
Gordon R. Lloyd*
Edward J. McCarty*
Giles C. McCrary *
John H. McMillan*
Joseph A. Matthews *
Walter L. Monroe x
Harrell F. Morris *
Lee D. Parker

Robert Lloyd Pinckx
Frederick H. Pitzer Jr.
Archer C. Puddington
Carter L. Refo*

Louis S. Rehr
Frederick K. Rippetoe x
Green Rives Jr. *
Robert W. Roote
Robert S. Rosenfeld
Charles L. Sartor *
Stanley L. Sater
William J. Scott Jr. *
Richard T.’ Sloane
Clyde E. Smith Jr. *
James R. Sterrett
John W. Stowers *
Paul C. Thomas Jr.
Glen F. Toalson*
Robert T. Vaughan
Robert C. Walker *
Leon J. Warms*
Herbert M. Weede
Robert F. Wersele
Philip A. Wilhite Jr.
John J. Wilkinson *
Alfred L. Wolfe Jr. *
Gibson M. Wolfex
George A. Woolfenden *
James H. Woosley
Richard T. Wrighte
Floyd K. Yeomans *
Henry M. Yonge

Paul R. Zumkeller *

CLASS OF 1943-A&L

Charles C. Adams
Donald H. Adams *
Donald R. Andrews
Westbrook Barritt x
Richard E. Basilex
Frank R. Bell Jr.

J. Paul Blakely
Calhoun Bond *
Robert B. Brainard Jr. x
Richard J. Bromley x
A. Leon Cahn

 

John C. W. Campbell
Adelbert B. Conley Jr. x
Jay D. Cook Jr. *
Richard E. Cooke x
William R. Cory *

Louis R. Coulling*
Donald J. Crawford
Albert D. Darby Jr.*
Lester L. Dillard

Ben W. Dittoe

E. Waller Dudleye
Leonard P. Eager Jr.
William M. Easterlin
Joseph F. Ellis Jr.e
Beverly T. Fitzpatrick x
Douglas F. Fleet Jr.

U. Grey Flowers *
Lawrence W. Galloway *
Robert L. Garges *
Donald E. Garretson *
John W. Goode Jr. *
Franklin Gruesser *
William C. Hamilton *
Jefferson W. Hudson*
Conrad L. Inman Jr. *
R. Francis Johnson
John C. Kammerer *
Harry C. Keller
Houston M. Kimbrough *
S L Kopald Jr.e

Robert S. Lambert Jr.
Allie H. Lanee

James G. LaPlante x
Stuart E. Lawrence
Joseph E. Leex

M. M. Long*
Raymond G. Long*
Douglas W. McCammish *
James E. McCausland
William McCoy Jr. *
John W. McGehee Jr. *
Robert F. MacCachran x
Alexander M. Maish
Haven W. Mankin*

Hill Maury *

Stanley R. Mitchell x
Barton W. Morris Jr. *
Corneal B. Myers *
Russell H. Neilson *
Morrison R. Nelson*
William J. Noonan Jr.
James S. Parsons *
John N. Peeples *
James W. Priest x
Donald L. Richardson *
Richard M. Roberts *
Edward H. Scherr
Marrion U. Scott *
Philip A. Sellers *
William K. Sevier *
Allen J. Sharitz

John C. Sherrard
Kenelm L. Shirk Jr. *
Paul M. Shuford *
Philip K. Shutex —

Leo J. Signaigo Jr. *
Jay A. Silverstein *
William G. Sizemore *
Charles H. Smith Jr. *
Ernest E. Smithx
Roscoe B. Stephensone
Lawrence C. Sullivan Jr.
James S. Sutherland Ill *
C. W. Swinford*

Ralph S. Taggart *
Horace K. Tenney Ill *
Arthur Thompson Jr. *
Robert P. Tyson*
William A. Webster Jr. *
William J. Wilcox Jr. *
M. Neely Young

Edwin A. Zelnicker Jr. *

CLASS OF 1944-A&L

Alvin D. Aisenberg *

Paul D. Barns Jr.

John L. Barrett x

William H. Baugher Jr. ‘
E. Lovell Becker *

29

Charles W. Broders
Baird Brown*

William B. Bryan*

G. Edward Calvert «
John B. Cancelmo II

C. Lynch Christian Jr. *
Thomas D. Crittenden*
G. Richard Cronin*
Robert M. Dehaven*
Edmund A. Donnan Jr. *
Richard L. Duchossois *
Albert H. Dudley Jr. *
Richard C. Eglin

David R. Embry*
Robert Ewing *

Leon Garber *

Robbins L. Gates
William B. Geise Jr. *
Robert R. Giebel *
Bryant W. Gillespie
Howard Greenblatt *
Robert P. Haley *

Leon Harris Jr. *
George E. Haw Jr.*
Richard L. Heard *

G. Edward Heinecke *
Alfred L. Heldman Jr.
John C. Hempel Jr. *
E. Mason Hendrickson *
A. Linwood Holton Jr. *
Ewing S. Humphreys Jr. *
Frank N. Jarvis

Donald Johnston *
John P. Jordane
Joseph S. Keeltye

Paul T. Kohr*

William S. Latz

Edward P. Lyons Jr.
William Mclndoe Jr.
William R. Malloy
William M. Manger
Eugene R. Marable Jr. * '
Edmund W. Marx
Robert C. Mehorter *
William R. Miller III
Robert H. Moore Jr. *
Norvelle W. Moses
Grant E. Mouser III *
William F. Noll Jr.
William H. Oast Jr.*
William F. Parkerson Jr.
Howard B. Peabody Jr.e
William P. Peak

Donald H. Putnam ur.e
Byron P. Redman Jr.
Richard Rockwell *
Frederick B. Rowex
John W. Runyan Jr.
Henry H. Schewel
Everett J. Schneider Jr.
John Schuber Jr. *
Robert H. Seal

John H. Sherman
Lloyd H. Smith Jr. *
Roger M. Soth*
James C. Stanfield *
John H. Stansfield *
William M. Sterrett
Marshall T. Steves *
William R. Talbott

John W. Taylor

Robert B. Taylor*
John C. Theurer
Thomas B. Ulam

Fred M. Valz Jr.
William B. VanBuren III *
Samuel C. Williams
Cullen F. Wimmer *
George T. Wood*

CLASS OF 1945-A&L
Edward B. Addisone
Richard E. Bartlebaugh*
Robert K. Billingslea Jr. *
John H. Brooks

Harry F. Brown Jr.

John F. Burger

Paul R. Byrd

John H. Churchwell Jr. *

30

 

Robert O. Crockett Jr. *
Cortlandt S. Dietler* |
Owen R. Easley dr.
Peter M. Fetterolf*

E. Dean Finney *
David W. Foerster* .
Walter E. Frye

Edwin H. W. Harlan Jr. *
Malcolm M. Hirshe

R. Edward Jackson *
T. Haller Jackson Jr. *
David L. Jones
Benjamin M. Kaplan*
Omer T. Kaylor Jr. *
H. Wise Kelly Jr. *
Roger R. Kimball x
Erwin D. Latimer III *
Charles E. Lewis Jr.

S. Allan McAllister
Myron McKee Jr. *
Floyd W. McRae Jr. *
Frank Markoe Jr.e

J. Maurice Miller Jr. *
L. Gordon Miller Jr. *
Joseph P. Mingioli*
Ellis O. Moore*
William H. Naylor
Robert E. Norman*
Harry H. Orgain Jr.e
J. Alvin Philpotte
Kenneth G. Puller *
Lee R. Redmond Jr.
Charles S. Rowee
Elliot S. Schewele
Chadbourne B. Smithe
Lucius S. Smith x
Milton H. Smith Il *
John H. Sorrells Jr.
Charles C. Stieff Ile
Collier Wenderoth Jr. *
Joseph M. Zamoiski Il *

CLASS OF 1946-A&L

Joseph P. Adams
Hugh C. Allen

Daniel H. Ball x

James F. Brewster
Frank C. Brookse
Benjamin M. Brown Jr.
Robert S. Brown Jr.
John H. Cheatham Jr.e
J. Fielder Cook*
Sidney M. B. Coulling Ill x
Patrick C. Devine

T. Ryland Dodson *
Roy J. Fahl Jr. *
Norman Fischere
Clarence N. Frierson*
John Gately x
Ambrose W. Givens *
Eugene E. Griese Jr.
David V. Guthrie Jr.
Louis R. Hahn Jr. *
Wade H. Haislip IV
Robert C. Harter
Donald S. Hillman*
John J. Kelly Ill *

W. Hanes Lancaster Jr. *
Thomas C. Lee

Oliver W. McClintock Jr. *
Fraser K. MacMinn*
William A. Magee*
Don R. Marsh Jr.*
Theodore B. Martin x
M. Pressley Mead *
Robert W. H. Mish Jr.
George C. Morris Jr.e
Donald R. Moxham *
William C. Olendorf
James A. Ottignon *
Dan C. Pinck

Barton P. Quaintance *
Thomas Randall

Hugh E. Reams*
Robert S. Richardson .
John C. Short ur.

Philip J. Silverstein
Sherman J. Smith
Charles M. Weeks *

 

Charles J. Williamson III
Edmund S. Willis*
Kenneth B. Wilson *
Roger M. Winborne Jr.
Sheppard W. Zinovoy*

CLASS OF 1947-A&L

Robert S. Axtell Jr.
James H. Baldwin
William J. Berry *
Brent Breedin Jr.

W. T. Brotherton Jr. *
Harold T. Chittum Jr. *
Henry C. Clark*

Fred L. Coover ur.
Robert S. Curlx
Ellison P. Gaulding Jr.
Bernard F. Judy
Harrison Kinney *

D. Carleton Mayes *
Warren G. Merrin Jr. *
Joseph G. Patrick
William H. Pifer*
William T. Ratliff Jr.
James H. Sammons *
L. Roper Shamhart
Charles H. Shook

T. W. Sommer
McDonald L. Stephens
Robert A. Warms*
Thomas R. Watkins *
William M. Wilcox Jr.e
Eugene B. Wright Jr.

CLASS OF 1948-A

Nate L. Adams II *
Julian C. Anderson
James F. Booker

Lewis V. Boyle

Harry W. Brown Jr.
William W. Burton*®
Donald E. Campbell x
James A. Cranford Jr. *
Marvin L. Daves
Francis A. Davis Jr. *
Rutledge H. Deas Jr. *
Marshall S. Ellis

Gordon A. Fox*

Elmer H. French Jr.
Frederick B. Gillette
Hardin M. Goodman*
Edgar D. Holladay
William L. Hopkins
Charles C. Hubbard *
Leslie F. James*
Walton W. Kingsbery Jr.
William F. Leffen*
Andrew H. McCutcheon *
Charles R. McDowell Jr.
Andrew C. McFall Jr. *
James T. McKinstry *
Johnson McRee Jr.
John E. Miller Jr. *
Neilson November *
Walter B. Potter *
William H. Rattner *
Josiah P. Rowe llle
Thomas A. Scott Jr.
Louis W. Shroyer Ill
Jesse W. Turner*
Gilbert H. Wilson *
Sterling W. Winn

Paul R. S. Yates

CLASS OF 1949-A

Robert L. S. Adams*
James A. Anderson Ill *
Henry M. Barker
Michael J. Barrett Jr.
Clifford B. Beasley Jr.*
Brian Bell

Edward P. Berlin Jr.
Donald M. Bertram
Granville S. R. Bouldin®
David M. Bower Jr.
Edward L. Bowiex
Michael B. Boyda

Philip C. Braunschweig *

 

D. Earl Brown Jr. *
David K. Caldwell
Frank Carter Jr. *
Leigh Cartere

H. Glenn Chaffer *
Richard S. Cooley
George E. Dashiell x
Ralph J. Davis

Peter D. DeBoer

Bruce H. Donald

Frank C. Dorman Jr. *
E. Stewart Epleyx

E. McGruder Faris Jr. *
John A. Farr Jr.
Norman Fischer Jr.
Roger M. Fritchie*x
Thomas R. Glass *
William W. Graham Ill *
James T. Graybeal* —
John C. Green Jr.

H. Dana Grindy

John M. Guthrie
William Hamilton *
Ossie D. Hamrick Jr.
Henry H. Hicks

Harry H. Hill Jr.

James C. Hitz

Thomas S. Hook Jr.
Carlton Johnsone
Edward W. Kinge
Albert S. Kyle Ill x
John T. Lanier Jr.
William E. Latturee
Charles R. Lemone
Daniel J. Little

Madison D. McKee Jur. *
Joseph B. Martin

Burr W. Miller*

John Q. Miller Jr. *

H. Thorp Minister Jr.
Robert J. Moodye
Clarence V. Moore Jr.
Spencer W. Morten*
Paul J. B. Murphy Jr. *
Leonard A. Nixon*
Matthew W. Paxton Jr. *
Robert T. Pickett III
Stephen W. Ramaley x
Robert R. Reid Jr. *
James M. Ress

William R. Rice *
William C. Ruble x
Mark W. Saurs*

John S. R. Schoenfeld *
William C. Smith Jr.

L. Vernon Snyder*
Everette L. Taylor Jr. *
John F. Taylor

Robert A. Totty Jr.
Richard H. Turrelle
Kenneth H. Wacker *
Connie K. Warren Jr.
Donald E. Warren*
Richard H. Whiteman*
Walter H. Williams
Richard M. Yankee Jr. *
Ellis N. Zuckerman

CLASS OF 1950-A

James Q. Agnew*
Stuart S. Bailey x

John R. Baldwin

W. Hale Barrett «

W. Paul Bennett
Richard F. Bidwell *«
Arthur A. Birney *
William G. Brooks *
Richard T. Brown*
William L. Brown Jr.
Douglas |. Buckx
Gerard A. Burchell Jr.
William S. Cale

James E. Cantler

John S. Chapman

R. Dabney Chapman
William N. Clements Ile
John R. Colex

A. Christian Compton *
W. Randolph Cosby Jr. *

 

David S. Croyder *
Maurice Dick*

Atwell Dugger *

John C. Earlex

P. James Fahey Jr.*
Gus A. Fritchie Jr. *
Thomas C. Frost Jr.e
Edwin M. Gaines
George W. Ginn*
Claiborne W. Gooch Ille
Byron W. Graves Jr. *
Thomas L. Guthrie
Albert H. Hamel*
John F. Hardesty Jr.
Francis A. Hare
Houston H. Hartee
James T. Hedrick*
Robert T. Helmen
Alexander R. Hill*
Richard E. Hodges *
Roy Hoffman Jr.*
Thomas A. Hollis
Curtis C. Humphris Jr. *
Robert E. R. Huntleye
Richard A. Hurxthale
Lawrence E. Jarchow*x
Howard S. Kaylor *
Gordon Kennedy Jr.
Bruce R. King Jr.*
Allie B. Kreger Jr.*
Clifford B. Lattax
Lester H. Lewis Jr.
Ernest T. Love Jr. *
Frank Love Jr.*
Herbert A. Lubs Jr.

W. B. McCausland *
Charles F. A. McCluer Jr. *
John H. McCormack Jr. *
Andrew W. McCulloch
James R. McDonald
Joseph H. McGeex
Donald A. Malmox
Robert H. Mauck
Oliver M. Mendelle
Robert S. Mendelsohn
J. Peter G. Muhlenberg
F. Alden Murray Jr.*
C. William Pacy Il*
Bruce S. Parkinson *
Andrew L. Peabody *
Franklin S. Pease Jr. *
F. Lisle Peters Jr.
George H. Pierson Jr.
Charles S. Plumb*
Joseph H. Reese Jr. *
Charles H. Robertson
Barnett Robinson Jr. *
Paul B. Root Jr.
Francis E. Rushton*
Isaac M. Scher

James G. Sheridan
Robert F. Silverstein

A. Fletcher Sisk Jr. *
Kenneth R. Stark Jr.
Howard L. Steelex
Gerry U. Stephens
James P. Sunderland*
Robert W. Swinarton*
J. Brookins Taylore
James E. Taylor
Thomas T. Tongue II
C. Dwight Townes
William H. Townsend *
James T. Trundlex
Robert Van Buren*
Richard C. Vierbuchen*
Allan M. Warner *
Lawrence V. Wheater’
Millar B. White Jr. *

G. William Whitehurst

I. N. Wicknick *

Robert A. Williams Jr.
Wallace E. Wing Jr. *
George R. Young*

CLASS OF 1951-A

Merritt Abrash
Charles W. Agnor Jr.
George F. Arata Jr. *

Edward P. Bassett «
W. Upton Bealle
William G. Bean Jr.e
Joe Bergstein

John K. Boardman Jr. *
Thomas T. Bonde
Donald W. Bourne*
John L. Bowles
Howard Bratches *
Wesley G. Brown*
Richard P. Cancelmo*.
James P. Carpenter
Stephen P. Coco*x
William R. Cogar*
Lewis P. Collins III
Marcus A. Cook Ill *
Thomas A. Courtenay Ill *
J. Alan Cross Jr. *
William E. Daniel Jr. *
Richard D. Davis *
William R. Davis *
Andrew J. Ellis Jr.
Donald M. Fergusson *
Peter E. Forkgen
Eugene E. Freeman Jr. *
James F. Gallivane
Fontaine J. Gilliam *
Robert E. Glenn*
John A. F. Hall

Guy B. Hammond
Arthur Hollins Ile
Samuel B. Hollise
Robert L. Hopkins Jr. *
William H. Hunte
William G. ller Il*
John W. Johnson Ill *
Richard L. Jones Jr. *
John E. Kannapell Jr.
Alan L. Kaplanx

John F. Kay Jr.

John W. Kay*

Joseph E. Kling

O. David Kulman
Peyton S. Kulman
Wilson H. Lear *
Lester |. Levine x
Thomas A. Lupton Jr.
Joseph B. McCutcheone
Richard R. McDonald *
Herbert G. McKay *
Barton MacDonald *

 

John O. Martin

A. Stevens Miles Jr. *
Samuel E. Miles Jr. *
James E. Moyler Jr. *
Berryman V. Nealx

A. Parker Neffx

Barry T. Newberry
Milburn K. Noell Jr.e
Townsend Oast *
James N. Paradies *
Herbert G. Peters Ill *
Ferdinand Phillips Jr. *
Robert T. Pittman
Michael Radulovic *
James W. Roberts Jr. *
William S. Rosasco III
Richard D. Rosenfeld
W. Vance Rucker Jr. *
David E. Ryerx
Robert H. Salisbury Jr.
Richard W. Salmons *
James Z. Shanks
Franklin H. Simmonse
Douglas M. Smith

Park B. Smith*x

Robert L. Smith Jr. *
Morton B. Solomon
Henry B. Stern*
Richard B. Taylor
John |. Thompson Jr.
Landon W. Trigg
Charles F. Tucker *
Norfleet R. Turner *
Frederick G. Uhlmann*
M. Theodore Van Leere
Sol Wachtler x

Charles Smyth Walden Jr.

John C. Warfield x
Thomas A. Washe
Henry J. Waters Ill x
S. Ray West Jr.
James J. White Ille
Richard E. Whitson Jr.
Thomas P. Winborne x
John R. Wittpenn*
Dave Wolf Jr. *
Thomas K. Wolfe Jr.¢
Daniel S. Wooldridge

CLASS OF 1952-A
John H. Allenx

 

Eugene M. Anderson Jr. *
Frank A. Baer Il *®
Richard G. Ballard
William F. Barron Jr.e
Robert E. L. Batts Jr. *
Robert M. Bayler
Victor E. Behrens Jr.
Perry L. Borom*
George S. Boswell
Frank H. Callaham Jr. *
William M. Canby *
Charles B. Castner Jr.
Ernest H. Clarke x
Samuel E. E. Conklin
Robert F. Connally Ill *
Joel B. Cooper *
Edward C. Darling*
Charles O. Dean Jr. *
Rogelio DeLa Guardia x
Richard A. Denny Jr.¢
Phillips M. Dowding *
George E. Eaglee
Joseph J. Eisler x
William G. Fuquax
Edward E. Gardiner *
Thomas G. Gardner
Paul R. Giordani *
James T. Gray

Robert S. Griffith Jr.
Thomas N. Harris *
John H. Holler *
William L. Horner Jr. *
Alan S. Horowitz

Otis W. Howe Jr. *
Helmut H. Huber *

H. Marshall Jarrett *
Henry W. Jones Jr. *
Thomas W. Joynes Jr.
James W. Kidd*

John J. Kindred Ill *
Boyd H. Leyburn Jr. *
Lynn F. Lummus
William H. Lyon*
Wayne D. McGrew Jr.e
Preston C. Manning Jr.
Robert A. Maslansky
Edward D. Matz Jr. *
William R. Mauck*
Joseph Mendelsohn lille
Thomas S. Miller
Julian B. Mohre

 

 

David M. Murraye
Orest Neimanis *
Cephas T. Patch II
Louis R. Putname
Walter R. Randall

Kent Rigg *

Philip Robbins

Hilliard A. Robertson
Charles S. Rockel

W. J. Kenneth Rockwell x
William H. Rowe
Edwin F. Schaeffer Jr. x
Robert D. Schenkel Jr.
George W. Seger*
Thomas R. Shepherd *
Donald L. Shuck
William C. Shuck II
Edward B. Sickle Jr.
Gideon N. Stieff Jr. *
Robert W. Storey x
Edwin Streuli Jr. *
Francis L. Summers Jr.
William A. Swarts Jr.
Roland E. Thompsone
John D. Trimble Jr. *
C. Byron Waites
James J. Walsh
Thomas R. Warfield x
Dudley A. White Jr. *
John W. Willcoxon Ill *.
Henry |. Willett Jr. *

C. Molton Williams *
Donald K. Williams
Elisha W. Winfrey Ill *
Lester E. Zittrainw

CLASS OF 1953-A

Cecil R. Adams Jr.
William E. Baggs
Robert B. Bell

Hugh H. Bond

John |. Bowman Jr.
Willis F. Brown

William D. Bruce*x
Ferd E. Carter

Gray C. Castle x

A. Roger Chappelka Jr.
Laurence G. Christie Jr.
William H. Coleman *
Roy A. Craig Jr. *
Crowell T. Dawkins Jr. *
John R. Delahunty *
Leonard C. Dill Ill

John W. Dodd Jr. *
Jaroslav A. Drabek
Samuel S. M. DuBois Jr. x
Robert F. Duguay *

M. Alton Evans Jr. *
Herbert S. Falk Jr. *
William H. Foster Jr.
Harry A. Fozzard*
Wyatt French Jr.

C. Craighead Fritsche
Owen B. Fuqua Jr. *
Herbert O. Funsten*
Simon H. Galperin Jr.
Clark P. Garrecht
Hugh S. Glickstein *
Herbert F. Gordon
Henry W. Grady Jr.
John D. Heard ®
James L. Hinkle
William A. Hockett Jr. *
William M. Hollis Jr.e
Sam B. Hulsey

Jay W. Jackson

Tyson L. Janney

John B. Kinkead *
John R. Kremer Jr. *
Peter J. Kurapka Jr. *
John R. Lawson Jr. *
Harold F. Lenfeste
Stephen F. Lichtenstein x
Charles R. Lovegrove x
Clyde S. McCall Jr. *
Hayes C. McClerkin Jr.e
Robert J. Maccubbin*
John D. Maguire x

 

Thomas L. Maker

C. Scott May *

George F. Maynard Ill *
John L. S. Northrop *
John R. O’Connell Jr. *
Alden M. Pitard

Daniel E. Popoviche
Lee A. Putneye

William E. Rawlingse
Melville P. Roberts Jr. *
George W. St. Clair*
Mark H. Schaul Jr. *
Jan J. Schilthuis Jr.
Ellis B. Schulist *
Barrett C. Shelton Jr. *
Charles H. Sipple Ill
Kenneth B. Sizer
Chester T. Smith Jr.e
Spencer T. Snedecor ur.
Kenneth F. Spence Jr. *
Edgar W. Spencer *
Clayton A. Stallworth x
Guy T. Steuart Ile
Webb E. Stevenson
Daniel C. Stickley Jr.
Rodney F. Stock Jr.
Seth A. Thayer*
Robert H. Thomas *
Justin D. Towner III
Ruel W. Tyson Jr.

Kyle W. Walden *
Robert H. Warren*

W. Temple Webber Jr.e
John B. Wheeler *

J. Edward Wise x

CLASS OF 1954-A

James B. Andrews Ile
Thomas E. Aschenbrener
Don P. Barbex

Earle S. Bates Jr. *
Hugh L. Berryman

John M. Blumex
James D. Bonebrake x
John R. Calverte

James C. Conner*

J. Robert Crosse
George S. Denning Jr. *
Daniel D. Dickenson Jr. *
Horace D. Douty

J. Spencer Frantz *
James A. Freedman*
Ross B. Grenard Jr.

A. Dean Guy

Ehrick K. Haight *
Richard T. Harbison
Daniel G. Hartshorn
Frank T. Hundley Ill x
William B. Inabnet Jr. *
Farris Jackson

William R. C. Jones *
Thomas J. Kenny
Friedrich G. Lackmann Jr.
H. Gordon Leggett Jr.
J. Fletcher Lowe Jr.
Nicholas G. Mandak*
Paul Maslanskye

Roy T. Matthews Jr. *
H. Victor Millner Jr.
Robert O. Paxton *
Henry P. Porter Jr. *
Harold J. Quinn Jr.e
Laurier T. Raymond Jr. x
Richard P. Ross
Franklin L. Shipman Jr. *
Jacob A. Sitesx

Robert P. Smith Jr. *
Stephen H. Snowx
Jerry G. Southe

Jason B. Sowell Jr.e
Gordon M. Taylor *
James R. Trimm
Kenneth |. Van Cott

W. Temple Webber ur.¢
George B. Werthan*
Donald E. West*

Wiley R. Wright Jr. *
George M. Younge

31

CLASS OF 1955-A

Kenneth L. Abernathy *
Hadden C. Alexander Ill *
Thomas W. Alexander

|. Thomas Baker *
Joseph K. Banks Jr. *
Arthur E. W. Barrett Jr.
William H. Bartsch
David M. Berlinghof x
William D. Blake x
Watson A. Bowes dr. *
Barry D. Clark*

Scott B. Clinton

M. Lewis Cope Jr.
William E. Corneliuse
W. Andrew R. Dalton
Roland C. Davies Jr.
Ray B. Dinkel*x

Marvin R. Doerfler*
John W. Englishman
Robert N. Fishburne
Harry M. Ford Jr.*
Anthony F. Gerike*
Frank G. Gibson Jr. *
Lowell D. Hamric*.
Harry M. Hollins *

John T. Huddle

Walk C. Jones Ill *
Richard Kops

William J. Lemone
Laurence Levitan*
Richard G. Littlejonn*
Thomas E. Lohrey Jr. *
Christian A. Luhnow
David W. McCainx
Conrad H. McEachern Jr.
Robert H. Mann ur.e

J. Hardin Marion Ille
Marvin P. Meadors Jr. *
William S. Merrick Jr. *
Guy P. Metcalfe Jr. *
Douglas D. Monroe Jr.
Paul R. Muller+*
Charles M. Patrick Jr.*
M. Raymond Piland Ill *
E. Stuart Quarngesser *
O. Bertrand Ramsay
William R. Ritter Jr. *
Thomas W. Robbins Jr.
Judson H. Rodman
John A. Rutherford
Anthony H. Sargent *
Francis O. Schaefer Jr. *
Eugene B. Sieminski
Leroy H. Simkins Jr. *
E. Naudain Simons Ill
Raymond D. Smith Jr. *
Harrison Somerville Jr. *
Wiley W. Spurgeon Jr.
John W. Stackhousee
William J. Stober II *
Jerry F. Stone dr. *
Rudolph J. Stutzmann*
John M. Walbridge*
David S. Weinberge
Paul H. Weinstein *
Robert D. Whitaker *
Arthur F. Woeber *

CLASS OF 1956-A

Aristides M. Alevizatos *
Arnold M. Applefeld
David D. Bare

Charles R. Beall «x
Jasper B. Becker Jr. *
Joel Bennett x

Byron Berman

Sam H. Berry

Victor R. Bond

Philip H. Brasfield Jr. *
Robert G. Callaway *

S. Booker Carter Jr.
Rupert F. Chisholm Jr. *
Ralph A. Cusick Jr.e
Mark B. Davis Jr. *
Charles E. Dobbs *
Ellis B. Drew Jr. *
Michael R. Dubin *

32

 

Gilbert F. Dukes Jr.
John M. Ellis*

Henry H. Fisher
Dudley D. Flanders *
Wayne W. Fowler
Charles S. Gay *

Earl S. Gillespie x
Robert G. Gooch*
John D. Grabau *
Jean M. G. Grandpierre
Leonard C. Greenebaum *
Andrew B. Greenman*
Edgar L. Grovex
Richard B. Gwathmey
Victor Herrick Hanson*
Allen Harberg *

William A. Henley *
William H. Houston Ill *
Jamie M. Howe

Peter J. Jacobs *
James C. Jeter *
Lucius E. Johnson*
Richard M. Johnston*
Alfred O. Jones Jr. *
John K. Kane II

~ Sidmon J. Kaplan*

Emmett R. Kelley x
Thomas O. Lawsone
James W. Lewis

Arthur W. McCain Jr. *
Edward D. McCarthy *
Albert M. McClaine

J. Robert McHenry
Donald G. McKabax
Richard G. McNeer
William D. Manning*
James W. Marvin Jr.
Sanford R..Maslansky *
R. C. Gunnar Miller*
George F. Milligan*

J. Marvin Moreland Jr.e
William C. Norman Jr.e
Peter Q. Nyce Jr.*
John K. Oast

J. Richard O’Connelle
G. Dewey Oxner Jr.
James D. Perryman Jr. *
John E. Peters Jr. *
Frank S. Pittman Ill *«

A. Bert Pruitt Jr. *
James L. Pullen

Arch W. Roberts *

C. Dudley Rodgers Jr.*
W. Jacques Schuler Jr.
Richard A. Skolnik*
George |. Smith Jr. *
Frederick P. Stamp Jr. *
E. Harrison Stonex
Samuel A. Syme Jr.
Daniel B. Thompson Il *
Milam Turner Jr.*
Dederick C. W. Ward IIl
Charles C. Watson
Headley S. White Jr. *
Thomas A. S. Wilson *

CLASS OF 1957-A

William H. Abeloff*
Joseph M. Alanis*
John R. Alford*
Joseph A. Amato Jr.*
Lawrence A. Atler*
Robert D. Ballantine x
Ross H. Bayard

Richard C. Belden

Sam Bendheim Ill *
Joel H. Bernstein
Richard H. Berrye
Richard A. Block

John T. Boone Jr. *
Lenox B. Buchanan Jr. *
Robert A. Cairns *

J. Colin Campbell
James R. Creel Jr.

H. Greig Cummings Jr.
Charles F. Davis Jr.%
John G. Dickenson

 

Charles M. Drum

David H. Dunton*
Stephen M. Ehudin
Stanley M. Erdreich Jr. *
Donald V. Farriss*
John J. Fox ur.

J. Warren Frazier *
Karl M. Funkhouser
John D. Garson
George S. Gee Jr. *
John A. Gold Jr.*
Leonard E. Goodman
Warren H. Goodwyn *
Richard C. Gower

Dale F. Guy*

John M. Ham*

Donald W. Harper*
Robert P. Hawkins Ill *
William A. P. Haynes ur.
Benjamin N. Hoover *
John B. Howard *
Morton P. ller*

Joseph M. Jones Jr. *
Kendall C. Jones
William L. Kauffman
Theodore M. Kerr*
Jan C. Koontz *

Gilbert R. Ladd Ille
Robert H. Large
Richard P. Laskeye

C. Peter Leininger Ill
Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr. *
George M. Lupton Jr. *
Donald S. Luria

John E. McDonald Jr. *
Alfred J. Magoline Jr. *
John D. Marsh*

A. Jackson Mason
Loren A. Mintz

Richard A. Moore
Henry C. Morgan Jr.
Robert |. Peeples *

H. Merrill Plaisted Ill *
Alexander B. Platt
Charles B. Richardson*
Jeb J. Rosebrook*
William J. Russell Jr.e
Bernard Schaaf Jr. *
Charles L. Sherman IV
William O. Shropshire *
John W. Sinwell *
Isaac N. Smith Jr. *
John M. Smith *
Jordan M. Smith
Marquis M. Smith Jr.
Thomas A. Speer*
James R. Stockton Jr. *
H. Alfred Tarrant Jr. *
William B. Tippetts Jr.
Richard R. Warrene

H. Dunlap Weichsel*
John L. Wellford Jr.e
Richard C. Whiteford *
Warren E. Wilcox Jr. *

CLASS OF 1958-A

Osborne S. Aiken Jr.

A. Lewis Allene

Ralph W. Baucum ur.e
Irwin R. Berman*

Neil C. Bland *

Thomas B. Branch Ille
H. Clayton Brants *
Manley P. Caldwell Jr. *
Irvin N. Caplan

Charles J. Cellae
Kenneth W. Chandler *
Sheldon Clark, II
Malcolm A. Clinger Jr.
Harry S. Cockey
Charles G. Crawford
James J. Crawford Jr. *
Richard A. Davis

David M. Dawson*

W. Rowland Denman
Samuel C. Dudley *
Glenn R. Fahrenthold
Herman Fenstermacher II
William C. Finch Jr.

 

Donald R. Fowler*
William M. France*
Thomas C. Friedman
Edward M. George Jr.*
Allan R. Gitter*

John R. Hanson*
Edward L. Harlow
Charles M. Helzberg *
Nixon C. Henley x
Caton N. Hill Jr. *
John G. Holland

Vernon W. Holleman Jr.e¢

Farris P. Hotchkisse
John C. Huffard*
Campbell Hutchinson III *
Howard E. Jacobs *
Archie O. Jenkins II *
Avery B. Juhring*
Thomas F. King Jr.
Wilfred M. Kullman Jr. *
John L. Lancaster IlIle
W. Philip Laughlin *
Henry F. LeBrun Jr.
Ainsley J. Lester Ill *
James E. Lipscomb Ill *
Joseph L. Lyle Jr. *

G. Sage Lyons *

C. L. McCormick III
Andrew W. McThenia Jr.
Edgar H. MacKinlay *
E. Michael Masinter *
Robert W. Maxwell
Charles P. Midgley *
Charles H. Miller Jr. *
W. C. Miller+*

Charles E. Mochwart *
John P. Moyer

Lee Mullins *

David G. Noble x
Charles E. Nolte Ill
Thomas P. O’Brien Jr. *
Robert C. Pearson

O. Brooks Pollock Jr. *
Harry L. Pressley Jr. *
Frederick J. Ramsay
James W. Reid
Theodore G. Rich Jr.
Robert A. Richards x
Rufus L. Safford

R. Lawrence Smith*
Charles R. Spencer Jr. *
Hugh B. Sproul III
Nelson S. Teague *
Rice M. Tilley Jr.e

John L. Tucker *®
James W. Van Cleave Ill x
Edgar A. Wallacex

K. William Waterson Jr.
Benjamin A. Weimer Jr. *
S. Scott Whipple x
James L. Whitlock
William |. Winchestere
William K. Younge

CLASS OF 1959-A

Walter L. Ansell «

C. Dubose Ausleye
Edgar M. Baber*
Robert D. Bohan*
Henry H. Bohlman*
Thomas H. Broadus Jr.
Charles D. Brolle
Thomas B. Bryant Ille
Joseph S. Cambria*
Salvatore R. Casella
Charles W. Cole Jr.
Joseph L. Craycroft Jr.e
James M. Crews Jr. *
Richard F. Cumminse
Clinton M. Early*

Irvin Ebaugh Ill «

John H. Esperian

Ralph M. Evans*
Thomas P. Foley Jr.
Anthony J. Frank*
John P. Freeman*
Stephen H. Friedlander *
Arthur |. Gottsegen*
Robert S. Grady

 

Arthur S. Grove Jr. *
Dwight L. Guy*
Edward F. Halsell Jr. *
Owen H. Harper *
William S. Harrison
John D. Hattendorf*
C. Royce Hough Ille
Albert C. Hubbard Jr.e
William K. Hughes *
Charles D. Hurt Jr.e
Phillip A. Insley Jr.
Robert G. Jacob*
Don K. Joffrion*
Thomas G. Johnson
Robert R. Kanex
Evan J. Kemp Jr.
Robert C. Ketcham *
Daniel W. Kling *
Paul G. Knox

John G. Koedel Jr. *
John C. Kotz

Tom L. Larimore*

L. Geoffrey Lawrence
Clark M. Lea

Junius M. Lemmon
Edward D. Levy Jr. *
Robert B. Levy
Joseph S. Lewis IV
Edward R. Lilly Jr. *
S. Melville McCarthy *
Bruce Macgowan*

J. Stephen Marks Ille
Walter Matthews Jr.
David W. Meese *
Peyton G. Middleton Jr. *
Max D. Miller Ill *«

. Thomas M. Moore

H. Donald Morine
Michael A. Norell *«
Philip E. Palmer*

H. Gary Pannell *

John A. Paul

William H. Pixton

David C. Poteet
Richard A. Powell
Edward M. Reaves *
John P. Reilly *

David B. Root

Edwin P. Sapinsley Jr.
Robert E. Shepherd Jr. *
Donald W. Sigmund *
William F. Simpson Jr.
Jerald H. Sklar*
Laurence M. Smailx

H. Holden Smith Jr. *
L. Voight Smith *
Arnold L. Steiner *
Boardman Stewart *
James N. Stofer Il *
Andrew T. Treadway *
Francis B. Van Nuys*
Murray M. Wadsworth *
Jesse H. Webb Jr. *
Raymond P. White Jr. *
Jere H. Williams

James A. Woode

John W. Worsham Jr.

CLASS OF 1960-A

Charles D. Aiken Jr.
Leigh B. Allen III *
Michael D. Applefeld *
Douglas E. Barnard
Fletcher J. Barnes IIl*
John J. Barnes Jr. *
Frederick H. Belden Jr. *
Edward Bell Jr. *
Thaddeus W. Bell

F. Fox Benton Jr.e
Louis R. Bloodworth
Rockwell S. Boyle Jr. *
John M. Bradford *.
Daniel F. Bridges
Charles G. Buffum Ill
Malcolm B. Burton
Edward E. Calhoun*
Hugh L. Campbell *
Charles S. Chamberlin *
John W. Clark Jr.*

William H. Clark Jr. *
Oliver T. Cookx
Edward A. Corcoran
John T. Crone, Vx
Robert R. Davidson *
John C. Dawson Jr. *
Edward D. Deters

Max L. Elliotte

Robert R. Feagin Ill *
Allen M. Ferguson *
Alexander R. Fitzenhagen*
Leslie E. Gaut Jr. *
William M. Gibson *
Thomas W. Gilliam Jr. *
Frank S. Glaser *
Edward F. Good*
Grayfred B. Gray
James |. Greene

W. Preston Greene Jr. *
Jack C. Groner*

Philip G. Grose Jr. *
John J. Haun*®

Joseph E. Hess *
Robert C. Hinkel

John S. Hopewell

Louis Horst Jr.

Harley B. Howcott Jr. *
Hoyle C. Jones *
Julian C. Josey *
Carter S. Kaufmann *
Stephen K. Kent Jr. *
Thomas C. Kern*
David N. Keys*®
Randolph Kilmon*
John M. Kirk*

Malcolm Lassmane
Jonathan R. Lemon*
Daniel B. Leonard *
Harvey R. Levine

W. Kendall Lipscomb Jr. *
E. Peter Litton Jr. *
William G. Loeffler Jr.
James R. Loutit *

Jon B. McLin*

Sandy C. Marks Jr.
Richard E. Miller
Stephen D. Miller *
Clifton D. Mitchell
Willoughby Newton Ill *
Thornton W. Owen Jr. *

 

McGowin |. Patrick*
David D. Pitard

John R. Pleasant Jr.
J. Davis Reed IIl
John L. Reynoids Jr.
Joseph E. Ringland
Karl E. Rohnke
Gordon E. Rountree x
William B. Sawers Jr. *
William W. Schaefer *
Charles C. Sherrill *
H. Gerald Shields
Mervyn F. Silverman
Joseph J. Smith Ill
Robert H. Spratt *
Charles W. Springer *
Walter R. Staub Jr.

J. Frank Surface Jr. *
James B. Threlkel
Conrad H. Todde

J. Thomas Touchtone
David K. Weaver

J. Walter Weingart x
Richard K. White Jr. *
Robert O. Wilbur*
Raymond E. Wooldridgee

CLASS OF 1961-A

Edward A. Ames Ill
Raleigh R. Archer*
Haywood M. Ball x
Charles W. Baucum
Kenneth S. Beall Jr. *
Huntley H. Biggs
George Y. Birdsong*
Roy E. Bowen*

William M. Bowene
Jack H. Breard Jr. *

J. Alfred Broaddus Jr. *
J. Malcolm Brownlee Jr.
Augustin C. Bryan Jr.
Thomas W. Budd *
William T. Buice III *
Louis H. Burford
Dwight R. Chamberlain
George N. Chandler II *
Philip W. Conaway
James B. Conee

David F. Cook

 

Richard A. Cowles Jr. *
Drew P. Danko

Calvert G. DeColigny Jr.e
Stephen P. Degenharat
C. Howard Drexel
Joseph C. Elgin Jr. *
William J. Fidler Jr. *

J. Clifford Foster III

J. Carter Foxx
Graham D. S. Fulton
William V. Giles Jr.
Perry L. Gordon
James H. Hamersley *
Henry H. Harrell *
William H. Heald
Wickliffe Hollingshead *
Richard W. Hoover
Norbert W. Irvine
William R. Johnstone
Kenneth Kleeman
Winston E. Kock Jr. *
Richard L. Kuersteiner
Richard W. Lacy
Edward B. Ladd*
Courtney R. Mauzy Jr.
Edward F. Meyers Jr.*
William N. Offutt IV *
Edson B. Olds IVx
Robert K. Park II
Donald H. Partington *
Jon C. Peterson*
William S. Proctor
Maurice E. Purnell Jr.e
Ronald L. Randel *
James K. Randolph *
Robert G. Rappel
William C. Remington *
A. Douglas Salmon III
Milford F. Schwartz *
Richard S. Sharline
James W. Shugart Ill *
Charles H. Smith Il *
Reginald M. Smith Jr. *
Wilmer L. Snowdon Jr. *
John H. Soper Il *
William M. Storey

Peter T. Straub *
Samuel C. Strite, Ur. *
Henry M. Strouss Ill
Donald W. Thalacker

 

 

E. Hunter Thompson Jr. *
Marshall Timberlake x

E. Darracott Vaughan Jr. *
Brian H. Vitsky *

Charles S. Wassum III
Jerry S. Wilbourn*

Frank B. Wolfe Ille

Robert W. Wornall

L. David Zinn*

CLASS OF 1962-A

Peter A. Agelasto Ille
Ronald H. Alenstein *
William R. Anderson Jr.
Harry G. Ballance Jr.
William C. Boyd Ill x
John W. Boyle Jr. *
Aubrey B. Calvinx
James W. Carty Jr.
Stephen R. Chernay *
Carl B. Connell x
Charles M. Conway Jr. *
Alan M. Corwin®
Grantham Couche

F. Thorns Craven Jr. *
H. Allen Curran*
Jerome M. Dattel x
Hayward F. Day Jr.*
W. Barton Dick*
Frank A. D’Lauro Jr. *
Robert S. Doenges*
Robert A. Dunlap Jr. *
G. T Dunlop Ecker *
John O. Edmunds Jr.
Robert E. Eikel x
Ralph L. Elias Jr. *
Rawson Foreman
David K. Fraser *
Norman R. Frisbie
Steven A. Galefx

Park Gilmore *

R. Roy Goodwin Il *
Guy N. Graham*
Pearce D. Hardwick
Ralph O. Harvey III
Henry C. Hawthorne dr. *
Samuel |. Hellman*
Michael N. Herndon*
G. Lindsay Hickam
James C. Hickey Jr.
James K. Hitch Il *
Edward P. Hobbs *
George E. Honts Ill *
Justus C. Hoyt*

Jerry H. Hyatt *

R. William Ide Ill «
Rupert H. Johnson Jr. *
Kenneth B. Jones Jr. *
Richard S. Jones*
Ernest F. Ladd Ill*
Robert P. Lancaster *
Vincent T. Lathbury III *
Robert D. Lewis *
Donald H. McCluree
Alan M. McLeod

Philip F. J. Macon
John A. Martin

K. Douglas Martin *
Arnold P. Masinter *
Thomas L. Melgaard Jr.
H. Eugene Melton dr. *
Benjamin P. Michel x
Russell B. Miller

R. King Milling *

E. Warren Mills *
Barton S. Mitchell *«
Michael H. Monier*

J. Leyburn Mosby Jr. *
Mason T. New*
Charles J. Niemeyer *
Theodore L. Oldham *
Wesley R. Ostergren*
William D. Outman*
Rosewell Page Ill *
Hugh K. Paton Jr. *
John L. Paynex

Leslie H. Peard Ill *
George M. Peters*
John W. Poynor®

 

Venable B. Proctor
Bruce A. Ratcliff x
Kerry E. Reynolds*
Paul K. Rhoads *
James A. Russ *
James S. Sagner*
Philip D. Sharp Jr.
Howard L. Slater *
James W. Smithe

James H. Starkey Ill *
Stephen H. Suttle*x
David K. Tharp *
Walfred B. Thulin Jr.
John R. Trible Ilx
William E. Tschumy Jr.
E. Monty Tucker *
David C. Tyrrell Jr. *
George H. Van Sciver*
John W. Vardaman Jr.e
John P. White

C. Mark Whitehead Jr. *
Ralph C. Wiegandt *
Robert C. Wood Ill*
Rufus C. Young Jr.

CLASS OF 1963-A

Alexander J. Alexander Jr. *
Thomas G. Andrew Jr. *
George Austen III

A. Judson Babcock *
Daniel T. Balfour *
Rufus K. Barton Ill
David W. Bevans
Howard M. Binge
William P. Boardman*
Charles R. Brandt Il *
Thomas M. Brewer
Robert M. Briede

J. Timothy Brown*
Robert C. Browne
Thomas A. Bunkley *
Landon V. Butler Jr. *
C. Vance Campbell Jr.
James M. Campbell
Samuel W. Channell x
George M. Chapman Jr.
R. Meade Christian Jr.
D. Randolph Colex
John P. Cover*.

Walter E. Coxx

A. Neil Crawford Jr.
John O. Culley x

Ruge P. Devan Ill
Theodore A. Doremus Jr. *
Matthew T. Douglass *
John R. Dunnell

William M. Durrett
Edward B. Eadie Jr. *
R. Thomas Edwards Ill *
Thomas D. Edwards *
J. Douglas Farquhare
Rodger W. Fauber*
Henry A. Fenn dr. *
Ronald L. Garber

Edwin P. Garretson Jr. *
Joel L. Goozh*

David R. Grogan*
Jesse B. Grove Ill*
Stephen E. Guild

John N. Gulick Jr.
Wilmot L. Harris Jr. *
Robert D. Hart Jr. *
George W. Harvey Jr. *
James M. Henderson*®
H. Kirkland Henry *
Robert G. Holland
Edward W. Holmes Jr. *
Joseph P. Howson *
Warren B. Hughes Jr.

J. Winston Ivey *

D. Eldredge Jackson III
Omer L. Jeter Jr.
Watkins C. Johnston Jr.
John A. Kiely *

Ronald L. King*

Walter E. Klaas Jr.
Henry H. Knight *

Ken C. Kowalski

E. Ross Kyger Ille

33

Eugene A. Leonard *
Thomas R. Ligon

E. Philip McCaleb
Charles T. McCord Ille
Thomas P. McDavid
William B. MacKenney III
John P. March

John T. Mills *
Thomas T. Moore Jr. *
J. Holmes Morrison *
John H. Mullin Ille
David R. Munroe*x

G. Andrew Nea Jr.
Hamlet T. Newsom *
Lewis G. Noe ur. *

W. Allen ‘Northcutt III *
Edward B. Ostroff*
John M. Owen*
David F. Peters *

Lee G. Price

Thomas N. Rains *
Thomas P. Rideout *
Bruce H. Roberson *
Louis A. Rosenstock III
Michael J. Shank
Andrew A. Smith Jr.
David T. H. Spencer *
James L. Stott Jr. *
James L. Surface
Michael D. Sussman
David C. Swann*
Samuel D. Tankard Ill
Glenn O. Thornhill Jr.e
John C. Thurmond *
G. McNeir Tilman*
John E. Tipton*
Hugh H. Trout Ill

J. Richard Uhlig Il *
Robert M. VanRensselaer
H. Michael Walker *
E. Brent Wells Il *
Ashley T. Wiltshire Jr.
Sherwood W. Wise Jr.
Frank M. Young Ill*
Robert A. Young Ill *

CLASS OF 1964-A

John M. Allgood

David J. Andrex
Alonzo Atkins Jr. *
John W. Baker Jr. *
Anthony J. Barranco Jr.*
David C. Black Ill *
Vincent C. Blackstock x
Peter D. Blakeslee x
Frederic W. Boye Ill *
Michael H. Bright
Arthur E. Broadus *
Thomas M. Brumby IV
Joseph R. Burkarte

F. William Burke

Jay M. Caplan
Benjamin L. Chapmane
Bruce T. Chosney x
Richard C. Colton Jr. *
Stanley A. Cook
Frederick E. Cooper *
Richard A. Coplan*
Jere D. Cravens*
Edward S. Croft Ill x
Richard R. Cruse *x
Rutledge W. Curriex
John M. Dixon*
Timothy W. Dols

John Duncan III

Alfred E. Eckes Jr.*
Johnny P. Edwards Jr. *
John D. Eure Jr.

Philip R. Farnsworth Jr.*
Charlie C. Flippen Jr.
Lester M. Foote

D. James French®
Martin E. Galt Ill

Brice R. Gamber*
John F. Ganong Jr. *
G. William Gossmann *
Thomas Robbins Green
Barry A. Greenex
Kenneth E. Greer

34

 

Smith Hickenlooper III *
John E. Hilker

Matthew H. Hulbert
Alvin B. Hutzler 11
David L. Hyman*

Jay F. Jacot*
J. Michael Jenkins Ill *
Harvey E. Jones Jr. *
Robert A. Kell

Wilmot H. Kidd III *
Eugene R. Kidwell Jr. «
Charles D. Kimbell

Bill H. Kinsey Jr.

John H. Kirkley
Frederick J. Krall
Arthur G. Kroos III *
Kenneth P. Lane Jr. *
Michael E. Levinw
Thomas C. Lewis*
Thomas M. Lybass
James B. McCeney
John M. McDaniel III
Douglass McDowell x
Richard W. McEnally x
Floyd W. McKinnon
Walter L. McManus Jr. *
Lewis B. McNeace Jr. *
Bruce R. MacDonald *
John M. Madison Jr. *
James S. Maffitt IV *
William H. Marmion Jr.
Howard W. Martin Jr. *
S. Walton Maurras *
John E. Michaelsen*
Hollis |. Moore

Dennis R. Morgan

J. Hobson Morrison Jr. *
William A. Noell Jr. *
John C. Norman Jr. *
W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr. *
A. Thomas Owen
Charles C. Owens
Donald Palmer *
Stephen M. Parel

Harry L. Parlette Ill x
John Y. Pearson Jr. *
Samuel W. Pipes, IV *
Cotton Rawls Jr. *
Judson P. Reis*
Consider W. Ross *
Philip B. Roulette
Henry M. Sackett Ill *
Charles B. Savage
Frederick C. Schaeffer *
William M. Schildt*
Howard M. Schramm Jr. *
Bernard M. Shapiroe
Michael W. Sheffeye
Conway H. Sheild Ille
Nicholas R. Simmons
D. Culver Smith Ill x
Herbert F. Smith*
Burton B. Staniar*
Spencer R. Stouffer *
James T. Sylvester

Tain P. Tompkins

Peter S. Trager

Jerome Turner

S. Gwathmey Tyler Ill *
C. Fox Urquhart Ill *
James H. Wallenstein *
E. Stephen Walsh x
Gus B. Walton Jr.
Pennington H. Way Ill*
John W. Wescoat

J. Bruce Whelihan*
George C. Wick Jr.

Eric H. Wilson

Rex H. Wooldridge *

E. Randolph Wootton Jr.
Robert E. Wyatt

Jack Yarbrough*
Stuart J. Yoffex

CLASS OF 1965-A
David H. Adams*

C. Edmonds Allen IIl*
Douglas G. Bielenberg
James R. Boardmanx

 

Warren K. Bolton*
William G. Broaddus
Brooks G. Brown Ill
Blaine A. Brownell
Jeffrey G. Conrad
Jaquelin H. De Jarnettee
Robert C. DeVaney *
Gustave R. Dubus Ill*
E. Robert Elicker II
Gregory E. Euston
Adam J. Fiedler *
George M. Fisher, IV *
Kiah T. Ford Ill
Larkin M. Fowler Jr. *
Victor R. Galef x

Kirk A. Griffin

Baird S. Grimson*
Mark G. Haeberle x
Douglas D. Hagestad *
Stewart M. Hurtt*
Stephen G. Hussey
James W. Jennings Jr. *
John E. Jennings

|. Curtis Jernigan Jr.

H. Daniel Jones III
Randall P. Jones *
Douglas Kannapell
Richard K. Kneipper*
Richard R. Kreitlere
Robert E. Lee Ill*
Michael S. McCord *
Joseph S. McDaniel Ille
Earl M. McGowin Jr. *
Earl J. Magdovitz*.
John F. Marshall Jr.e
Alan L. Marx*

Larry M. Meeks *
Michael J. Michaeles x
Ronald W. Moore*x

J. Malcolm Morris

Paul S. Murphy *
Woodard D. Openox
Robert B. Patton
Eugene L. Pearce Ill«
Peter M. Preston*
Stephen W. Rideout *
Patterson H. Robertsone
J. Wood Rutter II *
Max L. Shapirax
Arthur B. Sher*

Sam P. Simpson IV *
Charles A. Sweet Jr.
Royal Terrell Jr. *
Robert G. Thomas*
Timothy A. Vanderver Jr. *
Joseph G. Wheeler *
Jesse F. Williams Ill *
J. C. Peter Winfield *
John F. Wolfee

M. Lanier Woodrum *
Thomas L. Woodwarde
Norman Yoerg Jr. *

CLASS OF 1966-A

C. Barrett Aldredge
John D. Anderson
John L. Baber Ill*
Frank A. Bailey III
Andrew N. Baur*
Charles N. Bensinger Jr.
Harry E. Brookby*
James K. Bruton Jr.

C. Thomas Burton Jr.
Geoffrey C. Butler
Stephen S. Case
Lawrance B. Craig III
James A. Crothers Il *
John J. Czyzewski*

T. Todd Dabney Jr.*
Claibourne H. Darden Jr. *
Thomas G. Day*
Thomas M. Edwards *
David E. Fleischer
Maurice R. Fliess*
Samuel H. Frazier*
Gavin R. Garrett *
Harry G. Goodheart Ille
Charles N. Griffin Il «
W. David Hasfurther *

 

Michael M. Hash
Thornton M. Henry

J. Pegram Johnson III
Thomas R. Kelsey *
Michael E. Lawrence *
Randy H. Leex
Sydney Lewis Jr. *
Donald J. Lineback
William B. McClung *
Val S. McWhorter *
Hendrick W. Manley
David J. Mathewson Jr. *
George K. Meier III
Lewis N. Miller Jr. *
Phillip D. Molleree
John C. Moore*

Jon R. Neergaard
Charles H. Newman lille
Tabor R. Novak Jr. *
Duncan E. Osborne
John A. B. Palmer*
Grayson C. Powell Jr.
David D. Redmond *
Charles W. Reese Jr. *
Bruce W. Rider

John H. Rutherford *
Paul R. Schlesinger *
Alfred L. Shapleigh III
Eric L. Sislerx
Anderson D. Smith

E. Starke Sydnor*
Gerard T. Taylor*
James B. Thompson Jr. *
Robert C. Vaughan Ill *
C. Ganahl Walker Ill *
William C. Washburn Jr. *
Carter N. Williams IV
Frank G. Younge

CLASS OF 1967-A

Richard D. Allen

Galen E. Andersen*
Christopher F. Armstrong
William N. Bakere
Edward E. Bates Jr. *
Edward N. Beachum
David P. Bendann Jr.
S. Bryan Benedict
Robert G. Bigham
Robert R. Black®
Roger A. Blair

Gary B. Bokinsky x
Richard D. Bradford *
Stephen F. Brauer *
William J. Bridges Ill *
Ward W. Briggs Jr.
Gregory E. Brooks Jr.
Charles M. Bruce
Nathaniel E. Clement
Philip L. Cline

Alan G. Cohen

Randall A. Cole

James H. Cooper
Ernest |. Cornbrooks III *
E. Thomas Cox
Thomas C. Davis III

R. Tracy Duggan Ill*
Howard S. Epstein*
Blaine Ewing III

W. Lawrence Fellman*
Stuart Finestone
Marshall K. Follo
Benjamin D. S. Gambill Jr.e
Harold B. Gordy Jr. *
John S. Graham Ill *
Kenneth M. Greene*
P. Rowland Greenwade *
Francis C. Grumbine x
Richard L. Harden
Thomas J. Hardin II
Tyree B. Harris IV
Charles C. Hart

B. Michael Herman
James R. Hickam *

J. Aldwin Hight Jr.
Thomas J. Holden III

J. McDaniel Holladay x
John K. Hopkins *
William S. Hulse x

 

William H. Jeffress Jr. *
S. Bryant Kendrick Jr.
Leroy W. Krumperman Jr. *
Richard S. Kurz

J. Howard Luck*
Andrew H. Lupton*
Thomas J. McCarthy Jr. *
Guyte P. McCord Ill *
Stephen T. McElhaney
John R. McGille

H. D. Mayfield Ill *
Roger A. Milam

John R. Miller
Douglas C. Morrison
Clinton S. Morse *
John T. Morsex
Harold W. Nase*
Michael K. Nation
Walter S. Nicklin Ill *
Theodore K. Oates ||
David W. Ogilvy

Lee Parsons *

James H. Price Ill
Robert B. Priddy
Randall L. Prior

Alan T. Rains Jr.*
Robert A. Reading II
Edward B. Robertson Jr. *
Bradford A. Rochester *
Robert E. Sadler Jr. *
Michael Y. Saunders *
Bradford Shinkle IV
Frederic P. Skinner*
William H. Sledge *
John C. B. Smith Jr. «
Wood T. Sparks *
William R. Sphar Ill +
Jamie A. Stalnaker *
George N. Stamas*
Paul R. Stanton
Charles T. Staples *
H. Platt B. Staunton
Warren E. Stewart *
Aron L. Suna*
Edward A. Supplee Jr.
James A. Tyler Jr.
William L. Walker Jr.
Roger W. Wallace *
William L. Want

John J. Werst Ill *
William S. Wildrick
Ernest Williams Ill *
John H. Zink Ill *

CLASS OF 1968-A

Jonathan E. Adams
Robert F. Aldrich*
John S. Anderson*
John H. Anthony *
Edmund H. Armentrout x

‘Leroy C. Atkins Il*

James W. Bartlett III
David E. Bass

W. Hugh Baugher
James L. Beckner Jr.
Edward L. Bishop Ill x
A. Rodney Boren Jr. *
James M. Boyd Jr.
Mark T. Boyd

M. Ray Bradford Jr.
Paul A. Brower*
William D. Brown
Corbet F. Bryant Jr.*
Richard C. Burroughs *
Russell V. L. Buxton

C. Howard Capitoe

N. Taylor Carlson*
Robert B. Carter

Carlile M. Chambers *
Christopher B. Chandor*
William F. Chew Ill
Richard T. Clapp *
Andrew B. Cleverly

R. Noel Clinard —
William A. Colom Jr. *
Patrick B. Costello
Philip G. Cottell Jr.

W. Reid Cox*
Theodore J. Craddock *

Allen B. Craig Ill x
Douglas S. Craig Jr.*
John R. Crigler
Linwood W. Davis
James J. Dawson*
James D. DeSouza
David R. Dougherty *
Frank S. Fairey Jr.
Robert C. Gastrock
Henry R. Gonzalez Jr.*
Francis C. Green Jr. *
Steven H. Greenia
Frank Greer*

Charles C. Harrold Ill «
W. Christopher Hart *
Malcolm T. Hartman*
Kazimierz J. Hercholde
Thomas L. Howard*
Jon T. Hulsizer *®
Donovan D. Husat*
Robert D. Hutchens
Edward |. Hutchins Jr. *
W. Thomas Ingold *
Frank A. Jackson *
Rolly W. Jacobs
Eugene R. Jacobsen Ill
Benjamin H. Johnson Ill *
Alexander S. Jones *
Robert S. Keefe *
Mavis P. Kelsey dr.

Houston M. Kimbrough Jr.

Jody S. Klinex

Roane M. Lacy ur.
James W. Large*x
John H. Lawrence Jr.
Jeffrey G. Lawson*
John M. Lee

William M. Lee Jr.
Barry J. Levine
Charles C. Lewis

Leslie D. Locke *
James R. Madison *
Kirk R. Manning

Eric P. Mantz *

Joseph A. Matthews Jur. *
Robert V. May Jr.
Frederick A. Meiser Jr.e
Mike E. Miles*

Newton B. Miller
Robert T. Miller *
Robert H. Moll
George A. Morgan Jr. *
Michael G. Morganx
Richard H. Nash Jr. *
John R. Nazzaro*x
Thomas W. Pettyjohn Jr. *
Tom L. Pittman Jr. *
Samuel B. Preston*x

L. Holmes Raker *
William S. Rasmussen
John R. Reynolds *
John W. Rice Jr.
William P. Ridley Ill *
Steven R. Saunders
William C. Schaefer *
Ralph W. Schenkel *
Joseph G. Seay*

S. Gates Shaw*

H. Gilbert Smith Jr. *
Robert J. Smith

Lane B. Steinger*
Geoffrey L. Stone

Peter R. Strohm*
Howard K. Tayloe Jr.*
J. Jeffrey Thistle *

D. Whitney Thornton II *«
Charles B. Tomm*
Peter W. Tooker*

Guy M. Townley

Wilson F. Vellines Jr.
Jeffrey M. Wainscott *
John H. Ward IV®
William Emory Waters Jr.e
Stephen H. Watts *
Robert M. Weinx

Gary P. Wilkinson*®
Dale E. Williams
Wendall L. Winn Jr.

E. Ellis Zahra Jr.*

 

CLASS OF 1969-A

Robert G. Armstrong *
Timothy R. Askew Jr.*
Thomas P. Atkins *
Willis M. Ball Ill *

John M. Barr Ill *
Michael C. Barr*
Richard H. Bassett *
Morris C. Benners Jr.
Lee Bivins Il *
Leonard A. Blanchard
H. Laurent Boetsch Jr.
Jeremy E. Brown*
William J. Brown*

J. Gillum Burkee

R. Gillis Campbell
Hugh A. Carithers Jr. *
John F. Carrere Jr.e

J. Ricks Carson Ill
Clark H. Carter

Leslie S. Carter

Allen R. Caskie*
Joseph T. Chadwick Jr. *
Burnet H. Chalmers
James M. Chance
William M. Christie Jr.
Alan H. Cooper*
Gregory B. Crampton*
Lucien B. Crosland *
Joseph H. Davenport Ill *
David L. Dowler*
Dennis S. Drexler
Robert Dunbar
Theodore J. Duncan Ill *
Dan T. Dunn Jr.

Mark R. Eaker*
Douglas R. Engle
David C. Ennis*
Jorge E. Estradae
William D. Falvey
John S. Fechnay
Mayo M. Fitzhugh Ill
Frederick C. Fletcher Il *
Stephen W. Fletcher

J. Ross Forman Ill*
Harold F. Gallivan III
William L. Gilmer

J. Barton Goodwin*®
David G. Gordone

W. Henry Graddy IV
Walter H. Green*

M. Lee Halford Jr. *
W. Douglas Hall *
James C. Hamill Jr. *
David W. Hardee Ill *
John C. Harris Ur.

Ray V. Hartwell Ill *
Mark M. Heatwole x
Robert M. Henes
Philip L. Herndon*
Samuel D. Hinkel IV
Robert A. Hulten *

J. Ward Hunte

David D. Jackson
Walter S. Jones*
Leon D. Katz

Neil S. Kessler

William J. Kimmel Ill *
Rufus D. Kinney
Michael J. Kline x
Richard E. Kramer *
Alan N. Leex

Alan M. Levine

James J. Livesay*
Arthur S. Loring *
Daniel R. Lynn Jr.
James W. McCommons*
William T. McCutchen *
Brittain McJunkin *

L. Richards McMillan Il *
Robert W. Mathewse
Glen P. Mattox
Fletcher F. Maynard
Christopher P. Meyer
David G. Mongan*
Glenn R. Moorex
Thomas S. Moore
Robert A. Moselle
Thomas W. Mullenix*

 

Alan W. Nashx*
Corydon C. Nicholson ||
Philip W. Norwood *
Geoffrey C. Orth

R. Stephens Pannill
Ralph E. Pearcy Il*
Jerald L. Perlman

J. Alvin Philpott Jr.¢
Richard M. Preston*
Thomas E. Robinson *
Henry L. Roediger Ill *
H. Daniel Rogers Jr.

L. Phillips Runyon Ill
W. Wade Sample*«
Marc A. Schewele
Peveril O. Settle III *
Stephen A. Sharp *
Donald A. Sharpe *
David T. Shufflebarger *
John G. Simmons*
Thomas K. Slabaugh *
Michael C. Stevens
Christian Straley

Bruce W. Talcott *

R. Alan Tomlin*
James A. Truss

John R. Turman
William C. Tyler*
Edwin B. Vaden Jr. *
Tinkham Veale III *
William C. Walker Jr.
Julian W. Walthall

John T. Whetstone
Joseph C. Wich Jr. *
William R. Wilkerson Il *«
C. Crawford Williams Jr. *
Addison G. Wilson
Robert W. Wipfler

John A. Wolfe

Kirk Woodward
Thomas H. Wright Ill
Harry J. Zeliffx

Stanley E. Zimmerman Jr. *

CLASS OF 1970-A

F. Sheldon Anderson Jr.e
Richard H. Antell
Richard B. Armstrong
John D. Baizley

Bryan Baldwin

H. Walter Barre Il*x
George Z. Batehx
Gordon W. Beall

Bruce O. Beckman
John M. Bernard *

T. Anthony Bewleye
James E. Bisbort

Scot A. Brower *
Charles C. Cahn Jr. *
Richard W. Capron*
J. Donald Childresse
William Alvin Childs Jr. *
Douglas E. Clarke *
Kenneth M. Clayton
Michael M. Cole
Edward W. Coslett Ill *
Christopher D. Coursen
Charles P. Cowell III

T. Kenneth Cribb Jr. *
B. Waugh Crigler

John H. Crockett Jr. *
Richard C. Daughtrey
Gregory J. Digelx

Jay F. Dorman

Philip D. Douglass
Walter J. Dozier Jr.*
Richard F. Dunlap Jr. *
Robert L. Entzminger
Mark S. Evans

Stuart C. Fauber*.
Albert T. Fechtel Jr. *
Frank E. Fisher Jr.*
Henry A. Fleishman*
Thomas O. Fleming Jr.
Walter J. Francisco Jr. *
Charles G. Frankx
David R. Frankstone
Charles S. Freret

Broox G. Garrett Jr. *

 

Andrew M. Gombos ur. *
William M. Gottwalde
Jeffrey B. Grossman*
Thomas C. Groton Ill
Hugh B. Guill

George W. Hamlin
Brent G. Hankins *
Howard L. Hansberry III
Milford B. Hatcher Jr.
David P. Haydu
Marvin C. Henberg*
Christopher R. Herchold
Gary D. Herman
Kenneth L. Hickman*
David K. Higgins *
Harry H. Hill Ill
Gregory L. Holmes *
Charles A. Holt Jr.
Lawrence E. Honigx
Frank B. Houseman*
David L. Hull

Curt B. Jamison

L. Clarke Jones III
David R. Katz

John M. Kefauver Jr.
Reeve W. Kelsey x

G. Whitney Kemper
Charles W. Kuhn Jr. *
D. Dean Kumpurise
David D. Kympton*
Robert C. Lee

Danny M. Leonard

F. Miles Little *
Joseph T. Lykes III
Daniel C. McDavitt x
James C. McElroye
Thomas N. McJunkine
Michael T. McVay
Bruce R. MacQueen *
Lee B. Madinger *
James W. Major*
James H. Maloney Jr. *
Christopher R. Martin
Roger S. Martin
Steven P. Maslansky
James O. Mathews ur. *
James A. Meriwethere
Bruce A. Meyers

John E. Miller

Sheldon J. Miller

H. Lamar Mixson Jr. *
W. Lee Moffatt III *
Lawrence H. Morrison*
Norwood O. Morrison
Gary L. Murphy *
Michael R. Murphy *
Michael C. G. Neer
John M. Nolan
Benjamin C. Paden*
George P. Page Ilx
Clinton B. Palmer III

E. Owen Perry Ill *
John A. Phillips Jr. *
William R. Phillips *
Peter M. Piltz

E. Angus Powell Jr. *
Joseph D. Raine Jr.
William F. Rector Jr.+*
Hal S. Rhea

William G. Rogers
Robert W. Root ur.
Bruce S. Samuels
Steven B. Sandlere
Martin F. Schmidt Jr.
Richard T. Scruggs ur. *
Byron R. Seward*

G. Richard Singeltary *
John M. Spencer Jr.
Michael J. Spoor
Malcolm H. Squires Jr. *
Charles M. Stonex
Paul S. Sugar

Stephen L. Tabakin *
Andrew B. Thomas *
Michael T. Thornton
Philip J. Tissue*
Robert P. Trout*
Willard B. Wagner Ill *
Kennon C. Walden Jr.

 

Gerald W. Weedon
John E. Wetsel Jr.
William A. Wilson Jr. *
W. Harvey Wise*

W. Whitlow Wyatt *
One Anonymous Donor

CLASS OF 1971-A

H. John Ackerman*
James R. Allen
Thomas H. Alphin Jr.
Charles D. Andrews *
William H. Arvin
William C. Bauer
Thomas M. Beazlie*
Philip W. Beckwith Jr.
Thomas K. Berger
Walter B. Beverly x

T. Carleton Billups Jr.
Craig S. Bow

Craig A. Bowlus

Barry R. Boyce x
Marcus E. Bromley x
Marvin M. Brooke
Frank C. Brooks Jr.e
William E. Brumback
William P. Canby*
Kenneth P. Carter *
Charles J. Cartwright *
Lucius D. Clay Ill
Stephen Clement
Arthur F. Cleveland Il *
Thomas W. Clyde
Raymond D. Coates Jr.
Madison F. Cole Jr. *
John D. Copenhaver Jr.
Thomas C. Daniel
Jeffrey A. Davis

Roy C. Deemer

Bruce W. Derrick
Sanford Doxey III *
Christopher C. Dove
John M. Duckworth *
James F. Easterlin x
John O. Ellis Jr.

Clark W. Faulkner Jr.
Michael G. Florence *
George M. Foote Jr.
Christopher D. Friend *
Joel A. Fulmer IV

Alan B. GaNun*

G. Carr Garnett *
William A. Gatlin Ill
Charles W. Glasgow ur. *
Stephen J. Hannon*
Henry A. Harkey *

C. Miner Harrell x
Charles F. Harris Jr. *
Steven L. Hawley *
John R. Heath

Hugh F. Hill Ill «

E. Wren Hudgins
Thomas B. Hudson Jr. *
William S. Ingersoll.
Richard C. lvey *
Robert J. Jantzen Jr.
Michael S. Jenkins *
Robert R. Jensen

Kelly C. Jones *
Edward F. Judt

William A. Kahn
Patrick L. Keen

John H. King

John D. Klinedinste
Donald H. Koontze
Andrew G. Kumpuris*
Francis M. Lawrence
H. Drake Leddye
Bruce C. Leex

Harry D. LeTourneau Jr.
D. Downs Little

Alva M. Lumpkin Ill *
John M. McCardell Jr. *
Philip D. McFarlanex
Gordon S. Macrae*
Walter W. May *

G. Lee Millar Ill
Marshall B. Miller Jr. *

35

Barry W. Mitchell
James A. Moses
Alexander M. Nading Jr.
Martin L. Nelson
Kenneth W. Newman
Henry Nottberg Ille
William H. Oast III *

E. Staman Ogilviee
Van H. Pate *

Joseph B. Philips III
Robert R. Radcliffe
Richard W. Regan
Thomas E. Reynolds *
Franklin R. Rich
Stephen D. Rosenthal *
Jackson H. Ross*

T. Jeffrey Salb

R. Balfour Sartor

Mark H. Sayers *

Allen C. Shepard Jr. *
Kenelm L. Shirk III

J. Connor Smith

S. Russell Smith Jr. *
Jeffrey B. Spencex
Henry W. Stephenson Jr.
Ronald N. Stetler*
Timothy A. Strait

John L. P. Sullivan Jr. *
Ben P. Tatum *

J. Wade Taylor *

J. Grégory Tinaglia
Joseph B. Tompkins Jr. *
Bate C. Toms Ill
Clifford L. Walters III
Thomas H. Watts *
Andrew J. White Jr. *
David P. White

Calvert S. Whitehurst *
G. Hoy Widener III

Paul D. Wilber

Donald E. Woodard Jr.
Robert G. Woodward *
Bradfield F. Wright *
Peter F. Zimmermann *

CLASS OF 1972-A

James A. Abele Jr. *
Richard S. Abernethy x
Edward H. Achorn Jr. *
Thomas E. Addison III
J. Hudson Allender
Daniel W. Armstrong
Charles K. Arnold
William G. Arnot III
Glenn M. Azuma*
James M. Ballengee Jr.
Thomas O. Barton
David M. Bernard

D. Michael Berry
Joseph J. Blake Jr.e
Max F. Brantley *
Robert G. Brookby *
Allen C. Brown*

Colin K. Buell *
Robert L. Burns *
Ralph D. Caldroney
Donald B. Cartwright *
Timothy D. A. Chriss *
Beach M. Clark Jr. *
Leland C. Clemons
Robert C. Coleman
Peter A. Converse
Bruce W. Cusson
James S. Davis*x
Lynn D. Durham Jr.

J. Hagood Ellison Jr. *
Lewis M. Fetterman Jr.e
Robert P. Foley x
Wade K. Forbes *
Alan D. Frazer *
Thomas J. Friedman
Arthur N. Furhman
Carter Glass IV

Robert L. Goehring Jr.
Lloyd M. Goodman *
D. Randolph Graham
Charles L. Gregory
Brian S. Greig

36

 

Bernard C. Grigsby lle
Mark W. Grobmyer
Bruce R. Hankins

C. James Harland Jr.
James F. Heatwole *,
Howell V. Hill *
Thomas B. Hobbes
David L. Hollande
Robert J. Humphreys *
Marshall T. Irving III
George H. Jones Ill
Robert C. Jordan
Thomas G. Keefe
Robert D. LaRuex
John E. Lawlor Ill
Scott E. Lebensburger
Michael R. Longe
Michael W. McCall
Lex O. McMillan Ill «
Bruce P. Madison*
Douglas H. Madison
Lawson H. Marshall
Douglas F. Martin®
Joseph R. Martin x

P. Hale Mast Jr. *
John P. Mellox
William H. Miller Ill *®
Edward G. Moore
Meryl D. Moore

David R. Munsick Jr. *
Kenneth B. Murov
Jarvis E. Newman Ill
David W. Olson

John C. O'Neal
Steven J. Ory

William W. Peery *
Harry J. Phillips Jr. *
Michael E. Riley x
John W. Robinson IV *
Stephen W. Robinson *
Fredrick H. Sands*
John R. Sarpy *
Robert C. Shufeldt «
Mark E. Skoggard *
Peter M. Somerville *
Richard J. Splittorf
James M. Stege

E. George Stook Jr. *
Everett Tucker Ill *
John G. Tucker
Robert M. Turnbull *
Terry W. Tylerx
Robert C. Walker Jr.
Donald W. Weir Jr. *
Charles L. White

E. Bruce Wilsie Jr. *
M. Scott Wood Jr. *
John B. Woodlief
William M. Woodward *

CLASS OF 1973-A

William P. Ballard Jr.
Jeffrey K. Baugher

W. Christopher Beeler Jr. x
George W. Blackford Jr.
L. Price Blackford *
Robert P. Boyd

E. Mark Braden*

M. Anderson Bradshaw
Townsend Brown Jr.
Robert J. Brumback
Robert T. Bruyere
Jeffrey C. Burris*
Robert B. Cabell
George E. Calvert Jr.*
James H. Clapp *
William C. Clark

T. Hal Clarke Jr. *
William D. Coan Jr.
James E. Creamer Jr.
Richard C. Crittenden
Joffre J. Cross Il*
Jeffrey O. Davies *
Michael S. Davis
James R. Denny Ill *
John C. Dovel

John H. Dumas II *
Charles W. Dunn
Donald D. Eavenson Jr. *

 

William D. Emma
Lawrence E. Evans Jr.
James A. Fernald Ill
John W. Folsom *
Douglas A. Forsyth
Cecil J. Francisco III
William C. French*

G. Archer Frierson Ile
John C. Fullerton Ill

C. Christopher Giragosian *
Wade D. Gowl

Richard H. Graham
Richard E. Gray Ill
James G. Hardwick
Bruce N. Hasfurther
Robert L. Hillman
Andrew G. Hollinger *
Conway W. Hunter III
T. Haller Jackson Ill *
Craig B. Jones*
George R. Jones Jr. *
Paul D. Jones*

T. M. Kampfmueller Jr. *
Jay H. Kern

D. Bradford Kidd
Matthew B. LaMotte
Lanny R. Levenson*
Robert E. Levy

W. Revell Lewis Ill *
Nimrod W. E. Long Jr. *
Laurie A. McAlpine
Paul K. McClure *

G. William Macleod
James S. Mahan Ill

J. Jason Matthewse
Wilson C. Merchant Ill «
William G. K. Merrill
William D. Miller %
Philip H. Milner Jr.
Robert L. Munt Jr.
Danny N. Murphy
Thomas J. Murray *
Norwood E. Paukert Jr.
Charles R. Pennington
Charles D. Perry Jr. *
Gary W. Poliakoff x

E. Bryson Powell *

Lat W. Purser III *
John J. Reid

Gregory B. Robertson *
Michael C. Schaeffer
R. Keith Shaner *
Robert W. Sherwood *
Robert A. Silverman
Hatton C. V. Smithe
Ralph H. Smith 11
James F. Spaulding *
Andrew D. Staniar*

J. Griffith Steel

Charles M. Strain *
Robert P. Tabb *

J. Stanley Taylor *
Robert J. Taylor IV x
Daniel L. Topping *
William G. Tucker

John A. Wade Ill
Marshall P. Washburn
Scott P. Wellford

Jack V. Whipple II
Craig R. Williams *
Julian Bartow Willingham Jr.
Frederick W. Woodward Ill *
Mark R. Young*

CLASS OF 1974-A

William D. Adams IV
Jack E. Altman Ill *
Gary M. Arthur

Victor A. Barnes
Theodore W. Bauer
William F. Beacham *
Gary C. Bingham
Wilson E. Blain
Chester F. Burgess Ill *
Jeffrey D. Burke x
Edgar T. Campbell
Paul G. Cavaliere Jr.
Douglas C. Chase Jr. *
Andrew J. Chriss

 

Timothy C. Conner *
Francis J. Crilley
Patrick T. Daly

Marvin P. Daniel *«
Raymond P. Davidson II *
Robert A. Doll

|. Langston Donkle IIl*& —
William L. Downing *
Waller T. Dudley x
Lloyd E. Eagen Jr. *
Leonard P. Eager Ill *
Norman D. Fagge*
James D. Farrar Jr.
James C. Ferguson
David V. Finnell

Carl R. Fletcher III

R. Leigh Frackelton Jr.
Ralph E. Garner *
Stephen J. Greene x
Michael Guroian
Stephen M. Hagey
Walter L. Hannah Jr.
Averill C. Harkey *

E. Phifer Helms *
Russell L. Hewit*
Bliss Y. Hicky

Lewis J. Hixson *
Walter J. Hoyt

Robert E. Johnson Jr.
Kenneth D. Julian *
William D. Kientz II *
Duncan S. Klinedinst *
Henry J. Koci

Edward M. Kowalx
Matthew B. LaMotte
William R. LaRosa Jr.
Steven E. Leftwich
Joel L. Leginw
Edward H. Leonard Ill
Floyd W. Lewis Jr.
Ernest J. Lichtfuss Jr. *
Neil D. Lutins

Gary W. McAuliffe *
Richard S. McCain
Charles L. McCardell *
Bradford N. Martins
Everett A. Martin Jr.
Thomas A. Matteskye
William R. Melton IV
Richard H. Metcalf
Stephen V. Metch
David L. Moore Jr.
Douglas J. Newell

W. Perrin Nicolson IV *
James N. Nolan
Clifton O. Overcash Jr.
Paul W. Perkins *
Lewis F. Powell Ill *
Mark W. Preston
Stuart Ragland II
Robert M. Rainey *
Lee R. Redmond Ill *
James G. Rogers
John B. Russell Jr.
William H. Sanders Jr.
Edmund K. Seibels

J. Stephen Shaner
John M. Sheridan III *
Wright D. Shields
David B. Smith

Martin E. Stein Jr.e
Richard K. Stuart Jr.
S. Jeffress Sullivan
Thomas D. Swann

J. Timothy Thompson *
Alfred C. Thullbery Jr.
John S. Wallace *
William P. Wallace Jr. *
Edwin O. Wiley *
John P. Woodley Jr. *
Stephen C. Woodruff x
Andrew Graham Wright Jr. *
John M. Zamoiski*

CLASS OF 1975-A
William E. Allaun Il

J. Barclay Armstrong *
James V. Baird
Samuel M. Bell «x

 

William H. Biesel Jr. *
William T. W. Brotherton
Lawrence B. Cahoon
David A. Cantox
Michael P. Chapman
John R. Clapp *
Michael F. Colpoys
Robert A. Cook
Richard K. Cooksey
Richard R. Councill
Mark V. Couy

Rogers L. Craine
James A. Cranford Ill *
Charles M. Cushing Jr. *
William C. Datz

T. Barry Davis

Duncan B. DeGraff
Mark X. Diveriox
David G. Dowell *
Lawrence Dumville
John R. Embreex
David A. Estes

Julian T. Evans Ill
Kenneth M. Fauteux
Edward G. Feddemanx
Paul G. Firth

Randy L. Flink*
Robert C. Floyd
William E. Forland Jr. *
William D. Genge*
John W. Getz

Edmond B. Gregory Ill *
Thad Grundy Jr. *

B. Spencer Heddens Ill *
William M. Hiden*
Murray T. Holland *
James J. Howard
Douglas H. Hunte
Joseph E. Johnson
Richard D. Jones
Robert H. Jones
Richard D. Judson
Robert A. Keatley *
John E. Keith Jr.

Guy H. Kerr

John D. Killpack *

Kim B. Kirk

Karl E. Klinger *
Richard M. Koch*
Matthew B. Krafft

Kim D. Kuehner *

Paul J. Lancaster
Thomas D. Lancaster
J. William Lassetter
David R. Lee

Louis A. LeLaurin Ill *%
Samuel R. Lewis
Warren L. Look
Lawrence F. Lyles*
Alexander H. Mackintosh *
Channing J. Martin
David H. Mathews *
Mark J. Mennel
Kenneth C. Miller III
Carter H. Moore *
Stuart B. Nibley *
David W. Otey

Vernon F. Ottenritter
James N. Overton *
Eugene C. Perry ur.
Benjamin G. Philpott *
John R. Picciotti

David R. Pittman*
James E. Pope

Steven W. Purtell
Thomas B. Ramey Ill
John E. Ramsey *
Jack W. Ray Jr.
Raymond L. Rheault
Eric C. Rowex

Peter J. Schneider
Thomas E. Schneider *
Mitchel J. Seleznick
Philip L. Sellers

David E. Shaffner
Benjamin M. Sherman
Preston R. Simpson

W. Kennedy Simpson *
Michael S. Sisak

 

 

 

David H. Slater *
Sterling H. Smith
Lamar R. Spencer
Charles A. Stein

Kim Stenson

William H. Sturges
William W. Terry III
Jeffery W. Thompson
James E. Toler Jr.*
B. Harrison Turnbull
Thomas H. Wall IV
William A. Wallace *
William L. Warren Jr.
Thomas R. Watkins Jr.
Joseph E. Welden Jr.
J. Bowman Williams x
Joel A. Williams
James Wilson
Duncan F. Winter

CLASS OF 1976-A

Robert L. Amsler Jr.

R. Stewart Barroll
Ernest W. Bartlett III
Ben R. Barton
Frederick L. Bates*
Thomas H. Baumann *
Robert M. Bender
William E. Birbick *
David R. Braun*

G. Don N. Bryant III
John J. Burns
Donelson Caffery
Peter R. Cavalier
David S. Cayer*
Hunter N. Charbonnet
Carey D. Chisholm
John A. Cocklereece Jr.
William R. Cogar
Craig H. Coller

William L. Cooper III
William W. Crawford Jr. *
Paul B. Cromelin III
Douglas W. Darby
David W. Denny
James D. Doyle III
Alan P. Dozier

Daniel E. Drennen II *
Bruce B. Dunnan*
Milton B. Ellis

Douglas M. Faris*

D. Scott Farrar

Gary T. Fitzgerald

Jay R. Fries*

William E. Garrison Ill *
H. Mynders Glover *
John L. Gray ur.
David S. Greever*
Philip L. Hanrahan

T. Hunt Hardinge III
Malcolm R. Hastings
Frederick W. Havasy *
William E. Hoatson Jr.
Laurence P. Hobbes *
Kenneth J. Holdax
Harold R. Howe Jr. *
Michael B. Hubbard
Breckenridge Ingles *
Bruce Davis Jackson
Clay T. Jacksone
Neilson L. Johnson

J. Lee Keiger Ill «
Donald R. Kempton Jr.
Stephen C. LaRosa

R. Brooke Lewis

Harry L. McCarthy II
Thomas K. McClellan
David S. Martinx
Mark R. Maurais
Theodore C. Merrick
Henry M. Montague
William H. Moomaw Jr.
M. Reed Morgan
Robin Morgan

William Howell Morrison
Spencer W. Morten III *
Douglas R. Muir*
Paul J. B. Murphy III *
Julian J. Nexsen Jr. *

 

Dennis Oakley x
Vernon E. O'Berry Jr. *
Michael A. Okin

B. Craig Owens *
William B. Peard*

Alan W. Pettigrew

A. Dickinson B. Phillips
William W. Pifer

Robert D. Propst
Gerard ‘R. Quinlan*
Kenneth P. Ruscio
Robert F. Searles

Gary W. Seldomridge
William C. Shelton
Patrick K. Sieg
Frederick L. Silbernagel *
Paul A. Simpson
Michael A. Spaulding
Paul K. Stillwagon
Stephen R. Strawsburg *
Richard L. Thieringer
William E. Thompson IV
Walter E. Veghte Ill *
Peyton A. Via

Joseph Walker I!

Scott E. Watson *
Richard O. Whitaker *

CLASS OF 1977-A

H. Cobb Alexander Jr. *
Michael D. Armstrong *®
Camillus L. Avent
William F. Beauchamp
Richard O. Bolden
William M. Broders
James R. Brooks *
William G. Brothers
Solomon G. Brotman
John R. Buckthal *
Michael J. Burns *
Edwin H. Callison Jr. *
William D. Cantler
Robert A. Carpentier *
Joseph L. Carrerex
Robert M. Chiaviello Jr.
Michael Howard Clary
William Clemons

Gary Collier

M. Calhoun Colvin Jr. *
David C. Davis
Christian G. Dietz III
John R. Downey x
Joseph D. Dubuque *
James J. Duffy Ill x
Roger B. Durham *
Edward M. Duvall
Allen R. Emmert Ill

J. N. Falk

Richard P. Fink

James Hagood Fisher *
Michael E. Forry
Bradley J. Fretz
Clarence N. Frierson Jr. *
Steven N. Gabelman*
Landon W. Garland
Edward B. Gerharat

T. Nicholas Gill
Stephen D. Good *
John D. Gottwald *
Reid H. Griffin

Jon R. Grigg

Louis B. Hackerman
Gary K. Haley

Craig F. Hamilton
Sinclair J. Harcus Jr.
Philip L. Hatchett
Bolling C. Haygood *
Edward C. Irby Jr.
David B. Johnston
James A. Jones IV
Leon F. Joyner Jr.
Walter H. Kansteiner
Thomas N. Keigler
Walter D. Kelley Jr. x
William J. Kerr
James E. Koch

Rand J. Krikorian *

W. Dana LaForgex
Paul James Larkin

 

Lawrence James Lawson III
Roger B. Leithead Jr.
Benjamin M. Lowe
John A. Magee V
James B. Mallory III
W. Randall Mann

Joel W. Mohrmann *
Thomas H. Murphy
Robert E. Ottenritter
Vaughan M. Pultz*
Richard T. Rathbonex
Patrick Reilly *

Alfred Burgess Robinson Jr.

John D. Rosen*
William H. Sands
Angelo B. Santella
James U. Scott
Douglas A. Scovanner *
Stuart W. Serenbetz x
Howard R. Sklaroff
Marshall K. Snyder *
John Strock

D. Lowell Sullivan
Gregory Scott Thomas
Clark G. Thompson Jr.
Samuel E. Thompson
Frank Keech Turner Jr.
Theodore L. Uhlman ur.
John A. Ulizio

James C. Vardell III *
Timothy R. Vaughan
Kenneth S. Voelker x
Gregory S. Walden®
Steven White x

Lewis R. Windham Il *.
James N. Wohlfarth
Richard S. Wolf *
Warren T. Wolfe

Isaac L. Wornom Ill *®
Thomas H. Yancey
Stephen C. Yevich*

CLASS OF 1978-A

Maurice G. Adams
Andrew Michael Airheart *
Philip Edward Bailey
Jerry M. Baird

James A. Barnes*

M. Daniel Becque
Kenneth J. Bewick x
Alexander H. Bishop IV
Darnall W. Boyd Jr.
Parke L. Bradley
Charles V. Brown III

William D. Brown
John L. Bruch Illx
William K. Burton
Brian P. Carroll
George L. Carson
David W. Chester *
Michael T. Cleary
Richard S. Cleary
Daniel C. Coffey
Rodney M. Cook ur. *
Donald A. Cowser Jr. *
William O. Cranshaw
Ted Desaussure
Reynolds Dods *
Tupper H. Dorsey
Peter L. Farrenx
Robert B. N. Francis Jr. *
David C. Franklin
Gustave A. Fritchie III
Julian H. Good Jr. *
John C. Gorden*
Erik S. Greenbaum
George F. Griffin IV

R. Holman Head *
Steven B. Heird
Thomas D. Heldmanx
Henry M. Helzberg
Charles E. Hinkle
Thomas R. Hodges
John Hollinger

E. Brewington Houston Jr.
Jonn S. Hudson
Robert J. Ingram

 

Benjamin |. Johns
Peter C. Keefe

Craig B. Kendall

Karl N. Koon®

James K. Ladky
Alexis B. LaMotte
Jeffrey Lee

Peter Lin

George David Low
James N. Lynn
Richard B. McDaniel
R. Boyce McGrewx
Henry S. McKelway
David J. McLean
James S. McNider Ill *
Gerald Maatman
Robert J. Marvin Jr.
Stephen E. Mattesky *
A. John May Ill
Michael Joseph Missal *
Robert N. Mucciola
Lee W. Muse Jr.

Rex D. Nyquist *
Thomas O. O’Hara
Peter M. Pearl

Robert C. Peery Jr.
Marcus M. Pennell III
Stephen P. Rodgers
DeLambert Stowe Rose
W. Gordon Ross
Howard A. Rubel *
Fred L. Rush Jr.

Lloyd R. Sams

William S. Sands Jr.

L. Scott Shelton
Gregory Sieminski*
George M. Smith
Richard W. Stewart
Richard C. Taylor
Robert Boardman Tremblay
David T. Trice

David A. Tumen
William G. Turner
James M. Underhill x
J. Dorman Walker Jr. *
Michael M. Wallis
James N. Walter Jr.
Rand D. Weinberg *
William G. Welch
Robertson H. Wenat Jr.
Edmund V. Wick*
Steven C. Yeakel

CLASS OF 1979-A

Douglas H. Adams
Robert M. Balentine
Marshall M. Barroll
Thomas E. Baynham III
Robert H. Benfield Jr. *
Robert F. Brewerx
Michael S. Brown *
Robert Burkholder
Douglas A. Byrd

D. Keith Calhoun

J. Landers Carnal *
Clement Dean Carter ||
O. Lee Cave x

John Peter Clements x
M. Gray Coleman II|*
R. Chris Collins x

John A. Craig

Robert E. Lee Davies
Luis deHechavarria Jr. *
Robert H. Devilbiss
Michael J. Doody
Shawn Ellsworth *
John H. Ferguson *
Frederick S. Fischer III
James H. Flippen Ill
James S. Frantz Jr.
Paul W. Gerharat
James D. Gray

Alan S. Guyes*
Charles C. Habliston IV
Henry H. Hagan

Henry Y. Hamilton
Ferdinand B. Harrington III
Palmer Heenan

Harry F. Hoke Ill

 

Scott W. Hood
Freeman E. Jones
Woods King III
Douglas B. Lanex
Thomas H. McCarthy *
John E. McDonald Jr.
Stephen Y. McGehee
Tim J. Manson Ill «
Marvin Porter Meadors III
William R. Meyer
Hagood Morrison

Eric Nord

Thomas Oxendine Jr. *
David M. Persson
Alexander C. Philpott
Jonathan W. Pine Jr.
Johnny Plowden
Thomas Mcloy Pritchard
Mark F. Prysi

Andrew Radcliffe *

R. B. Ramirez

William F. Reighley *
William L. Rodgers Jr.
J. Randolph Sacks
John Saylor

David R. Scott

James R. Shoemaker *
Andrew M. Sims

John P. Stafford
Warren Stephens *

K. Scott Swope

William T. Thistlethwaite
Mark S. Travers
Morgan W. Walker III *
J. Michael Watson
William M. Webster IV *
Neil J. Welch Jr. *
Michael F. Wenke
Tracy Alexander White
John W. Wilcox Ill *
Douglas K. Willis x
Douglas B. Wyatt x
Landon R. Wyatt Ill «

CLASS OF 1980-A

Richard J. Allen Jr.
Stewart Atkinson Jr.
H. Holcombe Baird III
Jeffrey A. Bartlett
Paul Becht

Robert J. Berghel Jr. *
George L. Booth
Abney S. Boxley III
Timothy A. Brooks ®
David A. Bryant
Richard F. Cancelmo
David Lent Church
Walton V. Clark
Robert D. Colvin®

P. Craig Cornett *
Leslie A. Cotter Jr.
James Clay Crumbliss x
Michael F. Deighan
Douglas C. Dorsey
Thomas E. Dutton
Robert B. Earlex
Goetz Eaton
Richard S. Essex *
Sydney D. F. Farrar
Eben D. Finney
David L. Garner *
Covert J. Geary
Wellington Goddin Jr.
Thomas E. Goss ur.
Homer D. Graham III
Lawrence Gumprich
Stephen D. Hallowwell
John C. Hamilton*
Albin B. Hammond II
Paul C. Hendry
Steven C. Herold
Robert E. Hummel

S. Dewey Keesler
Stephen R. Kern
Michael D. O. Lavitt
Richard Mark Lewis
Mark Lockhart

John W. McAlister
Murry G. McClintock

37

 

Mo

Michael R. McCraney
Kevin F. McGowan
Barksdale W. McNider
Richard A. Makepeace
E. Philip Mangum Jr.
Theodore B. Martin
William H. Matthai Jr.
Walker Mayo

James E. Mendoza*
R. Marshall Merriman Jr. *
Carl W. Miller

Edward C. Morrison
Ralph Ownby Ill
James H. Parker
Howard T. Parks
Russell Parmele
Robert W. Pearce Jr.
Jeffrey T. Powers
William E. Pritchard *
William S. Ridge
Hugh L. Robinson Il ®
John Kelly Ryan
Walter Keith Sanford
Jonathan B. Schewel
Peter J. Schott

Jesse M. Shaver Ill
Charles H. Shuford Jr.
Sidney S. Simmons II
Jesse F. Suber
Charles Terry
Gregory Ward Vaughan
Mitchell S. Wynne

CLASS OF 1981-A

C. O. Adler

Thomas G. Alfano
Carl M. Bates

Peter H. Benda
Raymond K. Best
John G. Billmyre
Robert D. Binder
John G. P. Boatwright Jr.
Paul S. Bourdon
Geoffrey H. Brent
Jerry L. Broccoli
William E. Brock, IV
Robert L. Brooke
Winston W. Burks III
W. Craig Burns
Samuel H. Campbell IV *
James Scott Cardozo
W. Tobin Cassels III
William R. Cole Ill *
Claude B. Colonna Jr.
David Cook

James T. Coyle Jr.
William W. Crowdus Ill
Larry G. Davis
Richard H. Drennen
David M. Dudka
Kevin B. Dwyer

Peter D. Eliades
Richard P. Ellis
George D. Fagan
Christopher J. Fay
Robert Firnberg Jr.
John J. Fox Ill

Robert R. Frantz
Douglas L. Gaker

R. Christopher Gammon *
Randolph B. George
J. Ross Germano
Gerald A. Giblin Jr. *
James Hugh Gordon Ill
Robert P. Gordon III
Andrew M. Grisebaum *
Stephen M. Handy
Douglas L. Hassinger
John S. Hastings
Steven W. Hellberg*
Jonathan Hendler

N. Jeffrey Herdelin
David B. Irvin

Aric W. Johnson
Frank S. Jones

W. Powell Jones

Ben W. Keesee

38

 

Craig W. Kennelly
Frank B. B. Knowlton
Lee Larimore
Richard Garland Latture
Kevin K. Leonard
Bradley A. Lewis
David A. Lewis
Gordon John Lewis
Harry Hill McAlister
Kevin McGuire

M. Victor McLaughlin
A. Williams Mackie
Stuart Mason *
Christopher Menefee
Lee Minetree
Edward Mintz

James B. Moore
William Cope Moyers
Robert J. Mullican
David F. Mullin

O. P. Newberry Ill
Joseph R. Newell III
Bishop B. Norris *®

C. Penn Owen Ill *
Robert S. Palmer
John P. Pigue
Russell Z. Plowden
George A. Polizos *
John Alston Pritchett *
John P. Purcell
Daniel J. Raskin

Mac Rein Jr.
Jefferson J. Reiter

R. Donald Rigger Jr.
Joseph Robles
Edwin S. Ryan Jr.
John D. Sadd

Daryl A. Sakol
Richard W. Salmons *
Scott Salpeter

John K. Schmicdt
Mark W. Scully x
Joel E. Segall
Douglas R. Shipman
Richard B. Silberstein
Geoffrey P. Sisk
Robert V. Sisk Jr.
James R. Small *
Michael C. Smith x
Scott T. Stafford
John J. Stathakis
James W. Stewart
Mark M. Suber

John R. Sult*

Perry H. Sutherland *
Todd L. Sutherland *
Edward T. Taylor Il
William B. Taylor
John Kirby Tompkins
Charles J. Vanhorn
James K. Vines *
Robert O. Waldbauer Jr.
Robert E. Walton Jr.
Douglas W. Werth
Robert H. Willis Jr.
Warren W. Woodring
Madison T. Woodward III
Jonathan Yale

CLASS OF 1982-A

Frank D. Agnew
Gordon Atkins

Travis Stan Barnes Jr.
Stephen Scott Barr
James V. Bent *
John R. Bestor

Paul M. Black
Frederick A. Boyd

E. Thomas Brockman
Sean T. Broderick
Frank W. Brower Ill
William F. L. Brown
Philip M. Browne
Ronald F. Calkins Jr.
George G. Carey V
William D. Clark
Henry Clay

Michael J. Collier
David A. Core

 

J. Preston Covington III
Thomas K. Creson III
John T. Daniel *
Earle David

A. Robert Dementi
William A. DuPre IV
Craig J. Dye

J. Thad Ellis Il*
Michael Fogarty

John E. Fowler

F. Brian Gibson
Arthur M. Gilman
Herbert C. Gresens

R. Gordon Grubb *
Jeffrey W. Gustafson
Ehrick K. Haight Jr.
Channing Moore Hall Ill
James M. Hall

Jim Haynes

Stewart A. Hinckley
Scott T. Howell
Anthony R. lerardi
Bruce C. Jones
James S. Kaplan*
Glen F. Koontz
Kenneth A. Lang*
Steve D. LaPrade
Douglas R. Linton Ill
Kenneth S. Lucas Jr.
John W. Mclintryre Jr.
Michael J. Malesardi *
John W. Martin

John Monroe

J. Stratton Moore
Preston Moore IIl
Fredrik Eric Nelson Jr..
Kelly J. Niernberger
Brian J. Noonan*
Nelson Ould

William R. Parks Jr.
Edmund Payne Perry
Erik D. Peterson

Hollis W. Plimpton III
Charles H. Prioleau
Colt Puryear

William M. E. Rachal Jr. *

 

Charles F. Randolph
John B. Riis

M. Parker Roberts III
Henry F. Sattlehight
Robert T. Schmiat

Dan Schott

Douglas G. Sheldon
George S. Spears Jr.
James D. Stanton Jr.
Timothy C. Taylor *
Douglas R. Veasey *
John T. Warmath Ill *
Rob H. Warren Ill
Daniel L. Weiss *

W. Lawrence Wescott ||
Franklin H. White

R. Blake Witherington *
Robert K. Wittpenn *

CLASS OF 1983-A

William E. Alison Jr.
Alan S. Armitage
Evans S. Attwell
James E. Averett III
Andrew H. Backus
Richard Baer
Seng-Kah Baey
William M. Bell Ill
Thomas J. Bronner
John E. Buttarazzi
James H. Campbell
Charles D. Caruthers *
Ejay Clark

Kraig A. Conn
Steven D. Corbeille
George Crady
Bruce E. Damark
Steven A. Daub
Stephen H. Denny
Glenn A. U. Drake
Lawrence Robert Duffee
Thomas L. Egbert
Daniel M. Einstein
Tim Elfering

Mason Ellerbe
Frank G. English IV

 

Vincent J. Fechtel Ill
Harry A. Feuerstein
Eric R. Fife

Theodore M. Galanides
Stephen P. Geary
Howard E. Gill Ill

Keith E. Goretzka

D. Christian Graham
Michael M. Gregory
Stephen K. Greene
David Haddock

David M. Hagigh

C. Todd Hanks

Brian L. Hanson

Don A. Harrold Jr.

Eric A. Heinsohn
Deane A. Hennett
Brian K. Holdaway
Gregory E. Johnson
Patrick Jordan
Benjamin Leigh Kaplan
Brett S. Kass

Donald W. Kellerman Jr.
Thomas Fitch King III
J. Dwight Le Blanc Ill
Michael H. Lewers
Morris Lewis IV

James F. Londrey
Michael Darryl Mahoney
Robert W. Marshall
Hansel B. Millican III
David Wise Moore
Clifton |. Morrissette
Fredrik Eric Nelson
Raymond Lee Nichols Jr.
Townsend Oast Jr.
Edward J. O'Brian IV
Richard W. Ordway
Richard G. Owen

John W. Perkinson Jr.
Herbert M. Ponder Ill *
Christopher B. Power
William M. Read

Israel K. Redd Ill
David P. Ridlon
Dennis S. Roberts

 

 

 

 

 

Bennett Ross *

John A. Ross

Henry W. Royal

John B. Rudder

John J. Sancilio
Christopher D. Schram
Michael G. Schuler
William M. Self Ill
Camden Wood Selig
Scott A. Slade

Robert R. Smith Jr.
Nicholas W. Teare
Charles E. Thompson
S. Bradford Vaughan Jr. *
John Viahoplus

Bruce E. Wennerholm
John H. Windsor III
Anthony J. Zaccagnini

CLASS OF 1984-A

John L. Graves
William R. Rampone Jr.

Law
Classes

CLASS OF 1917-L
Gus Ottenheimer*

CLASS OF 1921-L
William O. Burtnere

CLASS OF 1922-L

George S. Riggs
George W. Taliaferro*

CLASS OF 1923-L

Alfred L. McCarthye
William W. Ogden*
Emmett W. Poindexter *

CLASS OF 1924-L

William C. Dennis *
Douglass P. Wingo*

CLASS OF 1925-L
E. Almer Ames Jr.
Clarence E. Hinklee

CLASS OF 1926-L
Robert O. Bentley Jr. *
William H. Brown Jr. *
William R. Cosby *

CLASS OF 1927-L
James P. Bumgardner
Robert H. Jonese
John S. Letcher *
Charles W. Lewis*
Charles T. Smith *

CLASS OF 1928-L

John G. Koedel
William P. Woodleye

CLASS OF 1929-L

Philip R. Becker
William G. Gault
Samuel C. Strite x

CLASS OF 1930-L

Maurice J. Arnd*
Leonard H. Davis*
Benjamin L. Rawlins Jr. *

 

 

 

 

CLASS OF 1931-L

Ethan Allene

Earl A. Fitzpatrick *
Horace Gooch, Jr.*
Walter E. Hoffman *
James B. Martine

Gus E. Mitchell Jr. *
Hon. Lewis F. Powell Jr.e
Manuel M. Weinberg Jr.e

CLASS OF 1932-L

Martin P. Burks Ille

Paul A. Holstein
Hannibal N. Joyce *
Henry W. MacKenzie Jr. *
William E. Malone

Alfred D. Noyes

James K. Osterman*
Albert G. Peerye

James D. Sparks Sr.e

CLASS OF 1933-L

Copeland E. Adams
Franklin R. Bigham *
Howard W. Carson*
O. Raymond Cundiff *
John L. Ericson®
Thomas S. Fox

J. Jerome Framptom Jr. *
Alfred R. Jones ®
Cavett Robert

George H. Strouse Jr.*
Wallace N. Tiffany *

J. Hoge Tyler Ille

CLASS OF 1934-L

Thomas D. Anderson *
Thornton G. Berry Jr.*
John H. Cooke *
Albert M. Fowler
Francis M. Hoge*x

E. Rodney Massie Jr.
Sherwood W. Wisee

CLASS OF 1935-L

Winston W. Brown

John D. Copenhaver *
Eli H. Fink®

James D. Finley Il*
William W. Fowlkes *

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.e
Thomas E. Sparks Sr. *
William L. Wilson *

CLASS OF 1936-L

William T. Homberg *
William L. Martin*
John H. Thomas*

CLASS OF 1937-L

James P. Baker Jr.
Amos A. Bolen*
David R. Dillon
Francis M. England
Edwin M. Markse
Harry T. Moreland

S. Tilford Payne Jr. *
William H. Robinson *
Isadore M. Scotte
Edward E. Stovere

J. Addington Wagner Jr. *

CLASS OF 1938-L

T. Hal Clarkee
Joseph T. Drake Jr. *
C. William Karraker Jr.
Leonard Leight

Frank L. Price
Charles W. Wilkinson
William L. Wilsone

CLASS OF 1939-L

V. Cassel Adamson *
William S. Ammerman Jr. *
J. Vaughan Beale x

John D. Goodin *

Philip M. Grabill x

 

 

Robert E. Graham *

R. F. Hutcheson *
Samuel G. Jones Jr. *
John C. A. MacKenzie *
Martin V. Partenope
John B. Pearson*®
James E. Quisenberry
Ambrose A. Rucker
Edgar L. Smith

Ralph H. Smith

G. William Swift Jr.
Thomas A. Williams Jr. *
William A. Young*

CLASS OF 1940-L

William S. Burns *

Edwin J. Foltz *

Oswald B. McEwan *
Ethelbert S. Roby Jr. x
Stanford L. Schewele
Harry R. Stephenson Jr. *
Wendell R. Stoops *

CLASS OF 1941-L

Frederick Bartenstein Jr.e
Frank C. Bedinger Jr. *
Haskell T. Dickinsone
Charles F. Heiner *
George F. Mclinerney
Charles E. Mottesheard *
John E. Perry

Bryce Rea Jr.e

Rufus H. Shumate

G. Murray Smith Jr. *

CLASS OF 1942-L

Charles F. Bagley Jr. *
Howard W. Dobbins *
Carter Glass Illx
Homer A. Jones Jr. *

E. Austin McCaskill Jr. *
Samuel B. Read *
Edmund Schaefer III
Clifford L. Walters *

CLASS OF 1948-L
Charles C. Adams
Carter R. Allenx
James M. Ballengeee
Joseph E. Blackburn *
Henry C. Clark*
David B. Cofer Jr.
Lloyd Cowan

Howard M. Fender
Beverly T. Fitzpatrick x
Henry J. Foresman
Joseph B. Geyer
Robert P. Haley x
George E. Haw Jr. *
T. Haller Jackson Jr. *
James E. McNeer *
Eugene R. Marable Jr. *
Joseph A. Matthews *
Wilbur S. Metcalf Jr.
H. Maurice Mitchell *
Grant E. Mouser Ill *
James H. Murphy *
Robert M. Patterson*
Reginald H. Pettuse

E. Rogers Pleasants *
James O. Porter *
John E. Scheiflye

Paul M. Shuford *
Trent D. Siple

James C. Stanfield *
Claude E. Taylor Jr.*
Benton C. Tolley Jr. *
J. Randolph Tucker Jr.
William Earle Tucker
M. Williamson Watts

CLASS OF 1949-L

Bonva C. Allen Jr.
William D. Bain Jr.e
Charles F. Blackburn *
Carter C. Chinnis*
Louis R. Coulling*
Jack B. Coulter

 

 

William C. Eickhof Jr.
Maurice J. Flynn
William C. Hamilton *
H. Walker Hawthorne
Wesley H. Jolly *
Stanley A. Kamene
Omer T. Kaylor Jr. *
James G. Kincheloe *
John J. Koehler

J. Randolph Larrick *
Robert C. Mehorter *
J. Maurice Miller Jr. *
Jack B. Porterfield Jr.
Robert H. Ramsey *
Lee R. Redmond Jr.
John H. Reed Jr.
John Schuber Jr. *
Sam Silverstein Jr. *
Hugh T. Verano*x
Luther W. White III *
Gilbert H. Wilson *

CLASS OF 1950-L

Kenneth P. Asbury *
William T. Brotherton Jr. *
Hugh Craig Castle
Thomas D. Crittenden *
Jack A. Crowder

C. Hobson Goddin*
George H. Gray*
Rufus B. Hailey *

Jack F. Hankins *
Walter L. Hannah *
Leon Harris Jr. *

E. Bruce Harvey

John L. Hopkins
William S. Hubard

‘John S. Lanex

Philip M. Lanier *
William J. Ledbettere
J. S. Livesay Jr.*
Neal E. McNeill Jr. &
Robert C. Maddox
William H. Oast Jr. *
Barton P. Quaintance x
William E. Quisenberry *
Milton H. Smith II ®
William S. Todd*
Thomas R. Watkins *
Samuel |. White *
Isaac L. Wornom Jr. *

CLASS OF 1951-L

John S. Bailey Jr. *
Michael J. Barrett Jr.
William H. Bender
Virgil M. Bowles ®
Marvin C. Bowling Jr.
Thomas J. Condon
George S. Cummins
E. McGruder Faris Jr. x
John J. Flood*
David W. Foerster *
James T. Graybeal *
Jack E. Greer*

Blair J. Harkett «
Ernest M. Holdaway
Albert F. Knight
Frank Love Jr. *
Donald W. Mason
Leslie L. Mason Jr.
John Q. Miller Jr. *
H. Harvey Oakley Jr.
Grover C. Outland Jr. *
Robert L. Powell «

F. Bert Pulley *
William R. Rogers
Nicholas S. Saraceno*
Mark W. Saurs*

J. Donald Shannon *
Scott H. Shott *
Douglas B. Smith
Warren L. Snead *
John F. Taylor
Benjamin B. White Jr.
Gibson M. Wolfe x

 

CLASS OF 1952-L

Willis M. Anderson
William C. Beatty
Arthur A. Birney *
Harry G. Camper
John A. Farr
Raymond W. Haman*
Jackson L. Kiser *

F. Nelson Light *
Joseph H. McGeex
James P. Morefielde
Robert B. Murdock Jr.
William H. Nelson
Andrew D. Owens
Harold J. Powell
James C. Reedx

J. Penrod Toles *

S. Maynard Turke

Sol Wachtler *

Robert F. Ward *®

B. Lamar Winegeart Jr. *
Joseph B. Yanity Jr. *

CLASS OF 1953-L

Robert L. Bansex
Howard Bratches *

- James P. Carpenter

A. Christian Compton*
Robert E. Glenn*
Robert S. Goldsmith Jr. *
E. Allan Skinner *
Charles F. Tucker *

CLASS OF 1954-L

James P. Brice
Richard A. Denny Jr.e
Harry J. Grim*
Claude R. Hill Jr. *
Robert B. Jacobi*
Donald R. Klenk *
Donald S. LaTourette x
Lewis C. Markel Jr.
Alvin Y. Milberg *
Lawrence C. Musgrove ®
Milburn K. Noell Jr.e
Roger J. Perry *

Elias Richards IIl *
John P. Ward*®

Frank M. Whiting *

CLASS OF 1955-L

Gray C. Castle x
William R. Cogar*
Hugh 8S. Glickstein *
Richard E. Hill
Richard W. Hudgins *
Jay W. Jackson

John F. Kay Jr. *
Peter J. Kurapka Jr. *
John R. Lawson Jr. *
Peter F. Materax
David M. Murraye
Kent Rigg *

CLASS OF 1956-L

Douglas |. Buck *
Charles L. Forbese
Reno S. Harp Ill *

Milton T. Herndone
William H. Hodges
Laurier T. Raymond ur. *
George J. Tzangas*
Willard |. Walker

Wiley R. Wright Jr. *

CLASS OF 1957-L

Jack K. Agee

Thomas C. Broyles *
Noel P. Copene
George W. Eason
Douglas K. Frith
Robert E. R. Huntleye
Lewis S. Leex
Thomas E. Lohrey Jr. *
Robert H. Mann ur.
Townsend Oast *
Overton P. Pollard *
Stephen M. Quillen*

39

 

pemonnet A are mae

 

CLASS OF 1958-L

Ernest H. Clarke x

Donald J. Curriex

Mark B. Davis Jr. *
Charles S. Gay *

Leonard C. Greenebaum *
Richard D. Haynes *

J. Hardin Marion Ille
Norman C. Roettger Jr. *
Robert E. Stroude

Patrick D. Sullivan*

CLASS OF 1959-L

John R. Alford *

J. Colin Campbell
Claude D. Carter*
Charles F. Davis Jr. *
Thomas D. Frith Jr.
Patrick Henry
Richard H. Horne
William J. Lemone

R. C. Gunnar Miller *
Owen A. Neffx

John F. Richards *
Charles E. Swope*

CLASS OF 1960-L

William H. Abeloffx
Samuel L. Bare Ill

N. William Bath *
Thomas B. Branch Ille
Manley P. Caldwell Jr. *
Gerald O. Clemens*
William E. Crowell Jr.
Neal P. Lavelle

H. Victor Millner Jr.
Henry C. Morgan Jr.
Thomas P. O’Brien Jr. *
Isaac N. Smith Jr. *
Jordan M. Smith

CLASS OF 1961-L

Harold M. Bates *

Paul X. Bolt

Thomas B. Bryant Ille
William F. Forde

Robert L. Gilliam Ill *
Warren H. Goodwyn *
E. Michael Masinter *
W. C. Miller*

Richard H. Parsons *
Nicholas H. Rodriguez *
Robert E. Shepherd Jr. *
Gerald E. Smallwood
Michael K. Smeltzer *
Emil J. Sulzberger Jr.
George R. Triplett
Warren R. Welshe

Hugh V. White Jr. *

CLASS OF 1962-L

Walter L. Ansell «
Edward Bell Jr.
Charles D. Brolle
Henry L. Carter
Thomas L. Feazell*
Osie H. Gay ur.
Robert C. Ketcham *
John M. Kirk
William R. Moore Jr. *
William W. Moore*
John A. Paul
Raymond R. Robrecht Jr. *
Laurence M. Smail*
Joseph M. Spivey Ill «
Charles F. Stow Ill
Francis B. Vannuys*

CLASS OF 1963-L

Kenneth S. Beall Jr. *
Paul H. Boswell *
Malcolm B. Burton
William H. Clark Jr. *
Benjamin H. Hansel II
Joseph E. Hess *
James L. Howe Ill«
Gerald L. Kesten
Robert L. Lambert *

40

 

 

Andrew W. McThenia Jr.
Edward F. Meyers Jr. *
Thornton W. Owen Jr.*
James K. Randolph *
Richard L. Rose )
Leonard Sargeant Ill & —

CLASS OF 1964-L

Edward A. Ames Ill
Thomas W. Budd *

Charles M. Conway Jr. *
Stanley A. Fink

James A. Gorry Ill

|. Lionel Hancock III
Barry W. Kerchner
Joseph W. Kozlik
Richard L. Lawrence *
Benjamin P. Lynch
Edgar H. MacKinlay *
Richard V. Mattingly Jr.*
Benjamin L. Meluskey Jr. *
Benjamin P. Michel *
Donald H. Partington *
Charles E. Reed Ill
Charles B. Rowex
Weldon J. Smith

Peter T. Straub *
Richard J. Tavss*

David K. Tharp *

CLASS OF 1965-L

William D. Anderson
Stanley P. Atwood
Daniel T. Balfour*
Frederick A. Castoe
William M. Garrison *
L. Gene Griffiths Jr. *
Paul W. Hammack Jr. *
William P. Harris

Roger D. Kelsey
James E. Kulp *
Anthony J. Lasala
Robert T. Mitchell

J. Leyburn Mosby Jr. *
Robert S. Pless

Herbert P. Sapp Jr.*
Philip H. Shafer

James L. Surface
Francis A. Sutherland Jr.
Stephen L. Willson*

CLASS OF 1966-L

Henry Angel *«

Robert R. Baldwin
Daniel W. Bird Jr.
Rudolph Bumgardner Ill *«
S. W. Coleman III

A. Henry Counts Jr.
Walter E. Cox*
Baxter L. Davis *
Charles E. Hamilton III
Jeffrey G. Haverson
Charles E. Hubbard *
Donald W. Huffman*
Charles G. Johnson *
James S. Maffitt IV *
Bruce C. Miller

William A. Schroeder III *

Paul R. Thomson

Jerome Turner

Raymond H. Vizethann Jr.*
George |. Vogel

Michael P. Watkins

Kent S. Wilson * .

George W. Wooten *

CLASS OF 1967-L

David J. Andrex
Douglas C. Arthur

F. William Burke

M. Kevin Concagh
Malcomb G. Crawford *
John O. Culley *
James F. Douthat *
James W. Elliott Jr. *
Mark R. Ferdinande
Stewart R. Findere
Benjamin R. Gardner

 

 

Richard E. Israel *
Jon A. Kerr*®

Joseph D. Logane
Peter W. Martone*
Richard L. Mitchell *
Ronald W. Moore*

J. Holmes Morrison *
Richard D. Nichols
William R. Reynolds *
Martin W. Rosendorf *
C. Edward Russell Jr. *
Conway H. Shield Ille
D. Culver Smith Ill *
Herbert F. Smith *
Jeffrey L. Ward

CLASS OF 1968-L

David H. Adams*

C. Edmonds Allen Ill *
John J. Czyzewski*
Hayward F. Day Jr.*
W. Gilbert Faulk Jr.e
George M. Fisher IV x
Vance A. Funk Ill
George E. Honts Ill x
Michael J. Michaeles *
Paul M. Neville x
George A. Ragland *
Stephen W. Rideout *
Robert F. Rutschow
William M. Schildt *
Andrew T. Still Ill

W. Jay Tims*

Ralph C. Wiegandt *

CLASS OF 1969-L

John B. Adams Jr.
Charles F. Bagley Ill *
Robert G. Bigham
William P. Boardman*
Stephen S. Case
Stephen L. Echols
Thomas M. Edwards *
Roy G. Harrell Jr.
Robert E. Harrison *
Thornton M. Henry
Justin E. Hoy dr.
Frederick W. Hudson *
Hugh J. M. Jones III
Randy H. Leex
William B. McClung *
Val S. McWhorter *
Tabor R. Novak Jr. *
David D. Redmond *
Jeffrey R. Reider *
Harry C. Roberts Jr. *
Eric L. Sisler*
Thomas C. Spencer *
William W. Stuart
Dean K. Vegosen*
Hubert H. Young Jr. *

CLASS OF 1970-L

Richard D. Bradford*.
Michael S. Colo*
William V. Corban
Richard DeFronzo*.
Ray W. Dezern Jr.*

H. Vaughan Griffin Jr. *
Richard P. Lasko*x
John R. Patterson*
Norman H. Singer*
Aron L. Sunax

D. Whitney Thornton Il *
E. Monty Tucker *

C. Fox Urquhart Ill x
William A. Vaughan *
Robert A. Vinyard *
James J. Winn Jr.*
John H. Zink Ill *

CLASS OF 1971-L
William D. Allen Ill
David L. Baird Jr.*
Albert V. Carr Jr. *
Frank G. Davidson Ill
James J. Dawson *
Reinhard W. Fischer

 

Robin P. Hartmann*
Walter C. Jacob *
Walton M. Jeffress Jr.
Reverdy H. Jones Ill*
John B. King Jr.*
Charles C. Lewis

Albert M. Orgain IV
Beverly C. Read

Paul R. Stanton

Paul S. Trible Jr. *

C. Rufus Walters Jr.
Joseph H. Webb Jr.
McDonald Wellford Jr. *
John P. White

Benjamin A. Williams III «

CLASS OF 1972-L

Stephen D. Annand*
Timothy R. Askew Jr. *
Joseph E. Carroll

E. Thomas Cox

Ira S. Feldman*
Frederick C. Fletcher II *
Roger A. Grayson

John L. Griffith Jr. *«
Mark M. Heatwole*
Stewart M. Hurtt *
James W. Jennings Jr. *
Lawrence E. Morhous*

~Thomas W. Pettyjohn Jr. *

James A. Philpott Jr.e
Roger A. Pond

William E. Quisenberry Jr.
Paul A. Robblee Jr.

John A. Wolfe

CLASS OF 1973-L

Richard V. Anderson
John R. Bagby *

John C. Baldwin
Frederick W. Batten*
J. William Batten *

E. Patrick Burke

Walter Butcka*
Michael C. Bynane*
Michael J. Campilongo*
Lawrence M. Croft*
Jesse C. Crumbley IIl*
Thomas J. Czelusta
Stephen K. Deay*
Gregory J. Digelx
Philip B. Dundas Jr. *
H. Watkins Ellerson III
Philip R. Farthing
Thomas G. Ferguson Jr.
Larry W. Fifer

Eugene R. Giammittorio
Ronald T. Gold *
Thomas A. Gosse
Richard V. Grimes Jr.
Richard L. Harden
Clyde M. Henkel *
Robert A. Hulten*
Larry D. Jones

William R. McCall
Douglas W. MacDougal
Richard S. Mandelson *
John J. Miles*

John P. Miller

John C. Moorex

Alan W. Nash*

James F. Pascal *«
James E. Patterson
Bruce L. Phillips
Theodore H. Ritter *
Elbert W. Robinson Jr.
Donald B. Ross Jr. *
Robert E. Ruloff*
William A. Simon Jr.*
Malcolm H. Squires Jr.*
Jamie A. Stalnaker *
Charles M. Stonex
Stephen B. Sutton

E. Starke Sydnor*
Scott M. Turner

Philip J. Wasilausky
Kenneth J. Wernick
Peter A. Wimbrowx

 

 

William E. Wood
Timothy S. Wright *

CLASS OF 1974-L

Thomas H. Alphin Jr.
A. Neal Barkus
David R. Beyer
Arthur P. Bolton*
David M. Bradt Jr. *
Peter B. Brittin*
John R. Broadway Jr. *
T. Lee Brown Jr.
Roy D. Carlton*
Quentin R. Corrie
James M. Costan*
Stephen G. Elkins *
James C. Fitter Jr.
M. Craig Garner Jr.
Dennis C. E. Gilchrist
Andrew C. Goresh
W. Bradney Griffin
B. Michael Herman
Harry H. Hill Ill

C. David Johnston
David M. Kelso*x
Thomas R. King Jr.
Joel S. Klinex

Rex M. Lamb Ill«
Thomas N. McJunkine
Charles S. McNulty III *
Glenn R. Moore*
William H. Oast Ill *
Paul E. Pysell

Robert L. Taylor
John H. Tisdale *
Paul Wilber

Joseph P. Wise

CLASS OF 1975-L

Stephen E. Arey *
Richard F. Biribauer*
Robert S. Bonney Jr.
Charles J. Brown Ill*
R. Noel Clinard
Grady C. Frank Jr.*
Pauli R. Garlock*
Virginia B. Garrison
Fred K. Granade
Christopher J. Habenicht *
William B. Hamilton
Ray V. Hartwell Ill *
David K. Higgins *
John F. Hoffman
Edward P. Kane
Peter R. Kolyer*

M. Steven Lacroix
Francis M. Lawrence
Jonathan S. Lynn
John |. McClurkin
Donald T. McMillan
Jeffrey S. Miller *
Robert L. Morrison Jr.
John S. Orton*®
Stephen W. Robinson*
M. Pierce Rucker
Andrew T. Smith

R. David Stamm
Charles B. Tomm*
W. Bruce White Jr.
Jeffrey L. Willis*
James L. Wilson
Thomas K. Wotring *

CLASS OF 1976-L

David S. Alter II

Robert H. Anderson III
E. Mark Braden*
James P. Carmody
Alan Chipperfield

C. Lynch Christian Ill *
Francis C. Clark

Nan Robertson Clarke *
T. Hal Clarke Jr. *
Deborah Susman Dowd
Jeff B. Dusek

Hiram Ely Ill

Cecil J. Francisco Ill.
Robert L. Hillman

 

 

 

Richard A. Hooker

Blair A. Kooix

James H. Maloney Jr. *
Keith W. Martin
Thomas J. Murray *
John S. Norris Jr.
Thomas P. Odell *
Gary T. Pope

Richard M. Preston
Marinus Quist

Stephen D. Rosenthal x
Thomas L. Sansonetti
Thomas A. Schmutz
Bayard J. Snyder
Gregory M. Sorg
Jonathan L. Spear *
Lucy D. Strickland

Ray John Taylor*

Scott T. Vaughn
Clifford L. Walters III
William A. Worthington *
Richard T. Woulfe x
Michael L. Zimmerman *
One Anonymous Gift

CLASS OF 1977-L

William L. Downing *
Wayne Edwards

William S. Gee

Robert W. Goodlatte
Richard Gottlieb
Elizabeth Toni Guarino
Anne J. Gunderson
Russell Lyle Hewit *
Deborah A. Johnson
Edward M. Kowal Jr. *
Charles M. Lollar
Osborne Phinizy Mackie
Bradford N. Martinx
Everett A. Martin Jr.

E. Morgan Maxwell Ill *
George R. Moore

Jeff Morris

James E. Nicholson *
Jeffrey W. Parker
Michael Rowan

Jerry L. Short

Douglas M. Thomas *
Alfred C. Thullbery Jr.
Randall J. Trost

William Paul Wallace Jr. *
Pamela J. Whitex
Chauncey C. Williams Jr.
John Paul Woodley Jr. x

CLASS OF 1978-L

Frank F. Barr®

Keith D. Boyette

Jean L. Byassee x
Charles M. Cushing Jr. *
Mark L. Dicken

E. Townes Duncan
Buford P. Early Illx
David P. Falck
Maryellen F. Goodlatte
Norman A. Kinnier
John D. Klinedinste
Jack Danes Kopald *
Raymond F. Leven
Pamela Rogers Melton
Mark Jay Mennel
John C. Parker
Kenneth Fred Parks
Eugene C. Perry Jr.
Benjamin G. Philpott *
Richard A. Rogers
Jonathan W. Sager
Steven G. Schwartz
Michael T. Thornton

CLASS OF 1979-L

John A. Agostini

S. Richard Arnold *
James |. Vance Berry Jr.
Daniel G. Beyer

Stanley G. Brading Jr. *
William Davis Broadhurst
Susan Hamilton Churuti

 

John A. Cocklereece Jr.
John E. Coffey x

Kevin J. Cosgrove
Jeffrey W. Crabtree
Paul A. Dominick
Charles N. Dorsey x
Waller T. Dudley x
Stetson W. Eddy
Charles E. Falk
Richard Goddard *
Richard L. Greenberg
William Lee Hallam
Thomas P. Healy Jr.
Michael B. Hubbard
Breckenridge Ingles *
John T. Jessee

David Whitley Johnson
Stephen R. Kasmar

J. Scott McCandless
Michael W. McLaughlin
Archibald C. Magee Jr.
Channing J. Martin
Gary S. Marx

William M. Moffet
Jessine A. Monaghan *
Stuart B. Nibley x
David W. Otey Jr.
Barry J. Plunkett III
William Riker Purcell
Gerard R. Quinlan

H. Lawrence Remmel
Mark E. Sharp

Lloyd E. Spear*
Robert T. Vaughan Jr. *
Lynn Prymas Vollmer *
Peter C. Williams
Robert Womble *

CLASS OF 1980-L

David F. Brandley Jr.
Douglas Broeker
John R. Clark III
Robert M. Connolly
John J. Eklund

Sally P. Falck

John A. Fraser Ill *
Joan M. Gardner
William L. Garrett Jr.
Betsy Callicott Goodell
William R. Goodell
Kenneth M. Lyons
Thomas H. Romer *
Kevin J. Ross
Elizabeth Turley *
Patricia A. VanAllan *
Christopher Wolf
Cheryl H. Wolfe

M. Lanier Woodrum *
John B. Yellott Jr.
Mary Anne S. Young

CLASS OF 1981-L

Charles Cleveland Abbe
William L. Abernathy Jr.
Nate L. Adams Ill
Blas P. Arroyo
Charles F. Bahn Jr.
Jonathan S. Berman
Michael E. Bongiorno
Patricia M. Brown
Sara Anne Burford
Alan L. Button

Philip D. Calderone
Margaret H. Campbell
Daniel R. Collopy
Elizabeth P. DeVine
Malinda E. Dunn
David W. Engel

John Lanier File
Samuel A. Flax*
John J. Gifford
Jeffrey H. Gray
Nicholas Hantzes
Kathleen M. F. Jessee
Neal S. Johnson
Steven M. Johnson
Charles Juster *
Walter D. Kelley Jr. *

 

Henry Darnell Lewis
Robert W. Ludwig
Melissa Warner McClenahan*
James S. McNider Ill *
Gene A. Marsh*
Jenelle Mims Marsh*
Thomas E. Martinx
William J. Milani
Thomas M. Millhiser
Robert W. Moorhead
James H. Neale
Anne Scott Porter
Samuel O. Price Jr.
G. Scott Rayson*
Richard P. Rodgers *
Tracy G. Savagex
Clara S. Smith
Nancy J. Spritzer
John M. Sullivan*
Phil N. Walker
Dawn Ellen Warfield
David G. Weaver *
Mark A. Williams
David O. Williamson
Carolyn R. Saffold-
Heyward Wilson *
Kerry M. Wilson

CLASS OF 1982-L

Mary Dudley Allen
Eric A. Anderson*

 

 

S. Amy Arbucho

Larry A. Barden
Edward James Bedford
Thomas R. Bender

|. Scott Bieler

William H. Bovers
Johnathan W. Bryan
Mark E. Cavanagh
James L. Chapman IV
Dana S. Connell
Robert M. Couchx
Craig S. Davis

Linda A. Davis

Susan M. Dern*
William H. Edmisten
Edward O. Falkowski
Catherine McGuire Gilliam *
Lucinda D. Harrison

D. Gregory Howard
Kirkland M. Kelley
John Emery Lanier
J. Andrew Lark
Donald K. McCorkindale
Susan C. May

Donna Lynn Miller *
Craig K. Morris

Patrick O’Hare

Jeffrey C. Palkovitz
Dana C. Petersen
Kevin W. Ryan
Thomas Y. Savage
James R. Shoemaker *

 

Patricia Sinskey
Nathan H. Smith
Allen T. Snyder Jr.
Julia G. Thigpen
Lizanne Thomas *
Eric J. Ward®
Kenneth X. Warren
Neil J. Welch Jr. *

CLASS OF 1983-L

Rod Clement

Gaines H. Cleveland
C. Drew DeMaray
Michael J. Farr

Millard L. Fretland
Keith E. Goretzka

A. Brooks Hock

Caro! L. Hoshall *
Matthew L. Kimball
James R. MacAyeal
Cecily L. Morris
Robert J. Onda
DeLambert Stowe Rose
Gordon W. Stewart
Sandra Thurston
Patricia Lynn Woehrlen

CLASS OF 1984-L
Warren E. Nowlin

 

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1983-84

UNDERGRADUATE CLASSES

Class Class Agent

15 R. N. Latture
16 E. B. Shultz
17 W. J. Cox

18 A. Beall

19 No Agent

20 No Agent

21 S. L. Raines
22 No Agent

23 F. B. Hurt

24 No Agent

25 E. T. Andrews
26 T. T. Moore
27 No Agent

28 No Agent

29 T. G. Gibson
30 | No Agent

31 H. M. Minniece
32 No Agent

33 C. J. Longacre
34 S. Mosovich
35 L. P. Gassman
36 G. W. Harrison

37 R. K. Stuart

38 D. N. Walker
39 V. F. Radcliffe
40 R. V. Herse

41 A. T. Fleishman
42 R. T. Wright
43 A. D. Darby
44 G. T. Wood

45 E. D. Finney
46 M. P. Mead

47 W. G. Merrin
48 W. W. Burton
49 M. W. Saurs
50 W. N. Clements
51 J. B. McCutcheon
52 W. D. McGrew
53 H. C. McClerkin
54 F. A. Parsons
55 J. H. Marion
56 R. J. O’Connell
57 R. R. Warren
58 M. A. Clinger
59 T. B. Bryant
60 M. Lassman
61 W. M. Bowen
62 W. L. Roberts
63 C. T. McCord
64 W. M. Schildt
65 J. W. Rutter
66 M. E. Lawrence
67 J. S. Graham
68 B. Atkins

69 J. F. Carrere
70 W. B. Wagner
71 J. B. Tompkins
72 S. W. Robinson
73 D. D. Eavenson
74 W. P. Wallace
75 R. A. Keatley
76 C. T. Jackson
77 J. L. Carrere
78 J. M. Underhill
79 C. S. Jones

80 P. C. Cornett
81 C. Gammon
82 S. B. Puryear
83 B. L. Ross

Donors

ohranovnoWn oe

Dollars

$ 2,233

2,600
675
3,230
6,450
770
1,175
220
570
1,990
5,236
5,009
7,162
4,320
13,205
7,063
20,773
12,905
4,930
15,501
15,165
17,951
14,750
18,010
30,975
24,531
77,857
21,712
23,034

‘20,475

21,516
18,166

9,825

4,742

8,050
19,540
28,063
46,736
22,195
23,830
22,390
27,156
15,733
16,565
26,063
21,062
23,983
19,280
23,880
19,824
22,344
17,523
21,160
12,359
20,636
28,728
26,202
18,352
17,832
13,080
11,855
29,720

9,677

9,014

6,313

5,759

4,675

6,878

4,191

2,650

%
Part.
19.4
63.6
42.9
69.2
56.2
35.7

50.0
29.6

43.1
20.0
47.6

36.6
41.9
53.5
41.8
42.6
42.3
62.2
47.1
43.2
50.7
45.1
39.4
50.6
44.6
48.0

50.0
37.1
41.1
38.5
48.1
44.0
35.7
44.1
41.1
38.9
23.9

35.6
39.2

42.9
40.9
37.0
39.2
40.1

24.5
20.8
35.3
42.6
41.4
40.9
39.6
30.5
28.1
27.4
34.8

27.8
25.7
21.1
18.5
35.7
22.2
24.8

 

LAW CLASSES

Class Class Agent

21 No Agent
22 No Agent

6-23 No Agent

24 No Agent

25 No Agent

26 No Agent

27 No Agent

28 No Agent

29 No Agent

30 No Agent

31 No Agent

32 No Agent

33 F. R. Bigham
34 S. W. Wise
35 T. E. Sparks
36 W. L. Martin
37 J. Arnold

38 No Agent

39 T. A. Williams

40 H. R. Stephenson
41 C. M. Landrum
42 C. L. Walters
48 C. R. Allen

49 J. R. Larrick
50 R. B. Hailey
51 J. E. Greer

52 J. C. Reed

53 R. L. Banse
54 D. R. Klenk

55 R. W. Hudgins
56 R. S. Harp

57 O. P. Pollard
58 R. E. Stroud
59 R. H. Horn

60 N. W. Bath

61 R. E. Shepherd
62 R. R. Robrecht
63 P. H. Boswell
64 T. W. Budd

65 J. E. Kulp

66 J. S. Maffitt
67 J. D. Logan
68 A. A. Jones

69 D. D. Redmond
70 D. W. Thornton
71 D. L. Baird

72 J. A. Philpott
73 J. C. Moore
74 S. G. Elkins
75 T. K. Wotring
76 Hal & Nan Clarke
77 D. M. Thomas
78 D. Swope

79 J. F. Murphy
80 J. K. Boyden
81 D. G. Weaver
82 R. M. Couch
83 M. L. Kimball

Donors

—

oh,
NON$_$WONNODWDWOANAWNNAN- -

—h,

—s
oo

Dollars

100
100
125
1,250
200
1,015
500
1,455
1,550
325
900
6,620
5,875
1,925
2,205
3,425
250
4,089
3,235
2,200
2,150
2,970
1,325
15,338
4,729
5,490
4,106
6,385
1,330
2,500
1,375
2,385
8,890
2,660
4,440
2,150
3,575
2,314
1,350
2,647
2,760
2,346
6,867
2,855
2,335
2,424
2,388
5,320
6,134
4,292
2,643
4,610
1,970
1,714
4,361
1,390
2,925
2,780
620

 

 

 

The Annual Fund:

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Dr.

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Dr.

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Dr.

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

Dr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Dr.
Dr.
Dr.

Parents

Gifts by parents are especially significant because they
represent a generous ‘‘extra’’ investment in the quality of
education offered by Washington and Lee. The University is
particularly grateful for this demonstration of confidence.
Listed here are the names of parents who contributed to the
1983-84 Annual Fund. Those donors whose names are follow-
ed by (©) are members of the Lee Associates and made gifts of
$1,000 or more in 1983-84; those donors whose names are
followed by (*) are members of the Colonnade Club and

made gifts of $100-$999 in 1983-84.

& Mrs. A. Ross Adams *

& Mrs. Carl Adams Jr. *
James F. Adams

& Mrs. J. G. Adams *

& Mrs. Richard B. Adams
& Mrs. W. Duval Adams

& Mrs. Abe Adler

& Mrs. Bobby R. Alforde

& Mrs. Richard W. Andrus *
& Mrs. Ronald B. Andsager *
& Mrs. Fred Anker

& Mrs. Jack G. Armstrong *
& Mrs. Tobin Armstrong *
Thomas E. Arthur

& Mrs. Stewart Atkinson

& Mrs. James M. Auch Jr.
& Mrs. Lee K. Baileye

& Mrs. Hugh H. Baird Jr. *
& Mrs. Rudolph S. Baizley
T. E. Baker*®

& Mrs. W. Ray Baldwin Jr.
& Mrs. John Ball «x

& Mrs. Charles M. Barger

& Mrs. W. Watson Barnes
& Mrs. Perry W. Bartsch*
& Mrs. Edward L. Beauchamp
& Mrs. Charles L. Benedict x
Erik Bennorth

& Mrs. James V. Bent

C. N. Berents Jr. *

Judah Best *

& Mrs. Brad Bissinger

W. J. Blackburn

& Mrs. T. J. Blackwood Jr. *
& Mrs. John G. P. Boatwright *
& Mrs. William E. Bobbitt *
& Mrs. Ken Braden

& Mrs. Arthur Branan Jr.*
& Mrs. W. T. Breithaupt

& Mrs. Raleigh Brent II
Robert H. Britton

& Mrs. James G. Brock*x

& Mrs. Harry D. Brookby *
& Mrs. Russell J. Brooke

& Mrs. Charles H. Brooks

& Mrs. Daniel C. Brown*

& Mrs. Darrell Brown *

& Mrs. Fitzhugh L. Brown *
Robert E. Brown

C. Willing Browne

& Mrs. John L. Bruch Jr*
Alfred S. Bryant

H. Richard Bucey

& Mrs. W. P. Buckthale

& Mrs. Peter M. Butler*

& Mrs. Roger V. Butler *

& Mrs. Thomas W. Butler

& Mrs. Patrick Buttarazzi*

& Mrs. Millard E. Byrd Jr. *

Mrs. Alma T. Campe

Mr.

& Mrs. G. W. Campbell Jr.e

 

Mr. & Mrs. S. H. Campbell Ill *

Mr. M. M. Canon

Mr. & Mrs. A. C. Cannon

Mr. G. Cheston Carey Jr.

Ms. Florence B. Carter

Mr. & Mrs. Robert S. Cartmille

Mr. & Mrs. Rufus A. Chambers

Mr. & Mrs. Herbert B. Chisholm *

Mr. & Mrs. John D. Clark

Mr. & Mrs. Richard J. Clark

Mr. & Mrs. Harvey Clarke x

Mrs. Gwendolyn M. Cleghorn

Mr. James M. Clifton*

Mr. & Mrs. Norman Cobb*

Mr. Thomas J. Connors *

Dr. & Mrs. Edmund J. Conway *

Mr. & Mrs. Roger W. Cope

Mr. & Mrs. George T. Corrigan

Mr. & Mrs. L. Arlen Cotter *

Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Couch*

Mr. Victor R. Coudert Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Vincent J. Coviellox

Mrs. Edward J. Crawford *

Dr. & Mrs. T. Kyle Creson Jr. *

Mr. & Mrs. Ralph R. Crosby *

Mr. & Mrs. Edward B. Crosland*

Mr. & Mrs. Timothy R. Cutting

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas E. Davey

Mr. & Mrs. Ralph P. Davidson*

Mrs. Barbara F. Davis

Mr. & Mrs. Seymour Davis

Mr. & Mrs. F. Robertson Dawson

Mr. & Mrs. William R. Deeley x

Mr. J. D. deHoll x

Mr. & Mrs. Francis Deighan

Mr. & Mrs. Donald W. Devine

Dr. & Mrs. Breese M. Dickinson

Rush S. Dickson Family
Foundation, Inc.e

Mr. & Mrs. Joseph J. DiDuro

Mr. & Mrs. Robert S. Diehl

Mr. & Mrs. Harry J. Donahuex

Mr. Joseph Donovan *

Mr. & Mrs. Ben R. Downing Jr.e

Dr. & Mrs. T. J. Dubuque dr. *

Mr. & Mrs. Lawrence J. Duffee

Mr. Joseph D. Dulaney

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Dulken

Mr. & Mrs. A. Baker Duncan

Mr. P. L. Duncan Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. T. J. Duncan Jr. *

Dr. & Mrs. Robert T. Dunn*

Mr. & Mrs. Paul A. DuPre

Mr. & Mrs. Lynn Durhame

Dr. & Mrs. Clifton M. Durning*

Ms. Patricia Edelstein

Mr. & Mrs. Aubrey J. Ellis

~ Mr. & Mrs. O. H. Entwistle Jr.

Mr. William E. Esham Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. J. Thomas Eubank*

_ Mr. & Mrs. William Ewing Jr. *

 

Mr. & Mrs. Andrew N. Farley x
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Fellin

Mr. & Mrs. George C. Finly*
Mr. & Mrs. Eben D. Finney Jr.
Dr. & Mrs. Robert L. Firnberg
Mr. & Mrs. E. A. Fitzgerald

Mr. Laurence F. Flentje

Mr. & Mrs. Gale R. Fletcher *
Mr. & Mrs. William M. G. Fletcher
Mr. S. J. Foley Jr. *

Mr. & Mrs. William E. Forland*
Mr. & Mrs. Thomas K. Galvin Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Gammon
Mr. & Mrs. Keith Garr

Mr. William A. Garrett x

Mr. & Mrs. Willliam J. Garritye
Mr. & Mrs. Richard S. Gatti Jr. *
Dr. & Mrs. Edwin A. Geex

Mr. William B. Gerwig*

Mr. & Mrs. Sandy Giacobbe
Mr. & Mrs. William M. Ginder
Mr. Earl W. Glazier Jr. *

Mr. & Mrs. Howard G. Gold
Mr. & Mrs. Richard A. Goodling
Mr. & Mrs. Floyd D. Gottwald Jr.e
Mr. Harry C. Gottwals Sr.

Mrs. Mary B. Goundry

Mr. Richard Grainger *

Mr. & Mrs. Richard B. Graves
Mr. & Mrs. James M. Gregg Jr. *
Dr. W. Graham Guerriero*

Mr. & Mrs. Roger .E. Gutowski
Mr. & Mrs. David F. Gwynn*
Mr. & Mrs. C. J. Haggerty Jr. *
Dr. M. Reza Hagigh*

Mr. & Mrs. Channing M. Hall Jr.
Dr. Jack W. Hall*

Dr. & Mrs. Arthur E. Halprin
Mr. J. S. Hamblen*

Mr. Gordon L. Hammock

Mr. & Mrs. Robert E. Hanks*
Mr. L. J. Hansen

Mr. & Mrs. Sinclair J. Harcus*
Mr. & Mrs. Martin C. Harmon
Mr. G. Lee Harralson*

Mr. & Mrs. John J. Hartigan*
Mr. & Mrs. William Y. Harvey *
Mrs. Elizabeth L. Havense

Mr. & Mrs. James L. Haynex
Mrs. Francis Watt-Haynes

Mr. Charles F. Haywood *

Dr. Albert E. Heimert

Mr. & Mrs. Robert A. Hemm *
Mrs. Floylee H. Hemphill

Mr. Nathan V. Hendricks *
Mrs. Margaret Henry

Mr. & Mrs. Bernard Herman
Mr. & Mrs. Oliver H. Hewit Ill
Mr. & Mrs. Dean Hines

Mr. James F. Holmes *

Dr. William F. Holmes *

Mr. & Mrs. F. W. Hope dr. *
Mr. & Mrs. Harold Y. Hoppes*
Mr. Robert F. Hornik

Mr. & Mrs. Edwin E. Howard
Mr. & Mrs. Harold R. Howex
Mr. & Mrs. J. N. Humphreys *
Mr. & Mrs. Gordon E. Hurd*®
Mr. & Mrs. Robert L. Hurdman
Mr. & Mrs. Richard W. Hurley
Mr. Raymond Hutchinson *

Mr. & Mrs. Ross J. Interrantee
Mrs. Carol Irvin

Mr. & Mrs. James P. Jackson*
Mr. Ronald Jakubek

Mrs. Elizabeth S. Jardinex

Mr. C. B. Johnson

Mr. & Mrs. David T. Johnsone
Mr. & Mrs. Harold A. Johnson
Mrs. Helen M. Johnson

Dr. & Mrs. Norman J. Johnson *
Dr. & Mrs. Fred F. Johnston*
Mr. Rudolph G. Johnstone *
Mr. & Mrs. James C. Jones

 

Dr. & Mrs. Richard B. Jones
Mr. & Mrs. W. J. Jonson

Mr. & Mrs. Raymond S. Jordan *
Mr. Charles M. Judge

Mr. Y. Frank Jungman

Dr. & Mrs. Melvin C. Kadesky x
Mr. & Mrs. Michael Katkocin *
Mr. James F. Kelly

Mr. & Mrs. W. Martin Kempee
Mr. & Mrs. C. L. Kendall

Mr. E. J. Kendall Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. James R. Kennedy x
Mr. & Mrs. J. Robert Killpack *
Mr. & Mrs. John T. King III

Mr. & Mrs. John D. Kirklande
Mr. & Mrs. David Klinedinst

Mr. & Mrs. Richard F. Knapp *
Mr. Vincent L. Knaus *

Mr. Herbert B. Knight x

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Knighte

Mr. & Mrs. William W. Knobloch *
Mr. & Mrs. Mark A. Krieger Jr.e
Mr. & Mrs. Robert V. Krikorian *
The Lalley Foundation *

Mr. & Mrs. Edward W. Lane Jr. *
Mrs. Nancy P. Lawson

Dr. Francis E. Le June Jr. *

Mr. & Mrs. Edward H. Leonard
Dr. & Mrs. Donald R. Lewis *
Mr. & Mrs. Harvey J. Lewis*
Mr. & Mrs. Michael Loening *
Mr. & Mrs. Richard M. Lofton*
Mr. & Mrs. Vincent Longo

Mr. & Mrs. J. Logan Look*

Mr. & Mrs. John F. Lord

Mr. & Mrs. Victor Losquadro
Mrs. Lucille C. Lundy *

Mr. & Mrs. Gerald R. Lynch*
Mr. & Mrs. Joseph P. McAllister *
Mr. & Mrs. Donald W. McCarthy
Mr. & Mrs. Robert B. McClatchy
Mr. Robert S. McCoy Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Harold J. McCulloch
Mr. C. A. McGowan

Dr. & Mrs. Kenneth MacLeod
Mrs. Phyllis J. Manasco*%.

Mr. & Mrs. Albert J. Marax

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Marvin

Mr. & Mrs. Charles Mason

Mrs. William McKinnon Massie
Mr. John F. Mauren

Mr. & Mrs. Robert F. Mausser*
Mr. & Mrs. Hiram P. Maxim II
Mr. Dennis Maxwell

Dr. John C. Melnick

Dr. Streedhara K. G. Menon
Mr. & Mrs. C. Irvin Messner

Mr. & Mrs. Arnold F. Meyer

Mr. & Mrs. William J. Meyer
Ms. Miranda B. Miles

Mr. & Mrs. Leo Militello

Mr. & Mrs. Duane K. Miller*
Dr. & Mrs. John W. Miller Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Russell E. Miller *
Mr. & Mrs. Ross R. Millhisere
Mr. John R. Minchew*

Mrs. Florence Mintz

Mr. & Mrs. Louis Mondello

Mrs. William L. Monroe Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. John L. Montgomery II
Mrs. Robert H. Monyek

Mr. & Mrs. L. Everett Moore
Mrs. Lucille J. Moore

Mr. Sumner K. Moore

Dr. & Mrs. William L. Moore x
Mr. & Mrs. Herron P. Morris
Mr. & Mrs. Walter K. Morris

Mr. John H. Morrow

Mr. & Mrs. Oliver W. Mowry *
Mr. & Mrs. E. Lee Muller

Dr. & Mrs. James J. Mulreany *
Mr. & Mrs. Daniel L. Murphy *
Mr. & Mrs. James P. Murphy
Ms. Penelope L. Murray

43

 

Mr

. James L. Myers*

Mrs. Madeleine B. Newman
Mrs. Alice H. Newsman
Mrs. W. C. Nichols

Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

. & Mrs. John H. Norberg

. L. Brison Norris

. & Mrs. Charles C. Nusbaum *
. & Mrs. Robert H. Nutt Jr. *

. & Mrs. Raymond S. Oliger*
._& Mrs. John D. O'Neill

. & Mrs. Neno D. Osella

Mrs. Mary F. Ould

Mr
Mr
Mr

. & Mrs. Philip D. Pakulax
. Edward Palattelle
s. Gloria A. Palettax

Mrs. Prudence M. Palmer*

Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

Dr.

Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

. & Mrs. James Paone*

. & Mrs. Jefferson D. Parker
.& Mrs. R. Dean Patterson*
. A. Winniett Peters

. & Mrs. Demetrois T. Petrides
s. Eleanor O. Petty

& Mrs. Osgoode S. Philpott *
.& Mrs. William R. Pierce

._& Mrs. Ferdinand C. Plitt Jr.
. & Mrs. Arlen S. Pockrass
._& Mrs. David K. Poole Jr. *
. & Mrs. Henry F. Prysi

. & Mrs. Anthony E. Puleo*x
.& Mrs. James M. Quinlan*

Mrs. William M. E. Rachel

Mr
Mr

Dr.

Mr

Dr.

Mr

Dr.

. Carl J. Raichle
.& Mrs. William P. Raines*
& Mrs. M. J. Rathbone Jr. *
._& Mrs. Alfred A. Reed*

& Mrs. Richard J. Reed*
. & Mrs. H. Ward Reighley
Frank M. Rembert*

Mrs. Bruin S. Richardson Jr.

Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

Dr.

Mr
Mr

s. Rosemary A. Richardson
.& Mrs. Charles H. Rideout *
. G. Donald Riley Jr.
._& Mrs. Alfred B. Robinson*
. John D. Roe Sr.
. & Mrs. Frank W. Rogers Jr. *
. & Mrs. William C. Rogers Jr.
. & Mrs. Michael J. Romanelli
. & Mrs. John L. Root
.& Mrs. Arthur M. Rosex
. & Mrs. John J. Ross*
. & Mrs. Martin B. Roth
. Jay A. Rothenberger
.& Mrs. W. Tarver Rountree
.& Mrs. H. L. Boyer Royal
. Miles Runner
. & Mrs. Ronald Sakol
. Sam Samuel
.& Mrs. A. T. Sanderse
. & Mrs. John E. Sanders
. & Mrs. L. L. Sanders
. & Mrs. Leon Sarpy *
..Harry W. Schoenberg

& Mrs. F. D. Schuh
. John Schurr
. & Mrs. George Scott

Mrs. Mary Ruth Scott

Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

. & Mrs. Richard J. Scruggse

. & Mrs. Donald H. Seid

. & Mrs. John R. Seifert *

. & Mrs. Morris L. Seleznick

. & Mrs. Warren L. Serenbetz*
. & Mrs. John S. Shannon*

. & Mrs. Jesse M. Shaver *

. Roy G. Sheldon

. & Mrs. H. Reese Shoemaker

ta

Mr
Mr

Dr.

Dr.

. & Mrs. Winston J. Simon

. Larry U. Sims
& Mrs. Richard A. Sindler*.
& Mrs. Sanford R. Singere

Mr. & Mrs. John M. Slack III

Mr
Mr

_& Mrs. Milan J. Slahor
_& Mrs. James G. Small

Mr. & Mrs. Leland R. Speed *

Mr

_& Mrs. William R. Spofford Jr. x

Dr. David W. Sprunt

44

 

Mr. John F. Stachura

Mr. & Mrs. John N. Stack

Mr. & Mrs. S. Tracy Stackhouse *
Mr. & Mrs. William A. Stanford *
Mr. Robert H. Steilberg

Mr. & Mrs. Warren L. Stern*

Mr. Frank K. Stillwagon

Mr. & Mrs. Robert L. Strickland *
Mr. & Mrs. Robert B. Stuart

Mr. & Mrs. H. T. Taylor*®

Dr. & Mrs. Francis B. Teague Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. Fred Thieringer Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. George M. Thomas *
Ms. Joyce M. Thomas

Mr. Matthew G. Thompson *

Mr. William DeF. Thompson *

Mr. Richard F. Thornton

Mr. Riley H. Tilley

Mr. & Mrs. W. Bryan Trammell Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Trumbox*
Mr. W. D. Turner*

Mr. & Mrs. S. G. Tyler*

Mrs. Majorie H. Valliere |
Mr. & Mrs. John H. Van Amburghe
Mr. Joseph C. Vawter *

Mr. & Mrs. James E. Vesper *
Mr. & Mrs. James M. Vines *

Mr. Karl E. Vogt

Mr. & Mrs. Gene A. Wallace

Mr. Hans H. Walter

Mr. & Mrs. Edward T. Walters
Mr. & Mrs. John T. Warmath Jr. *
Mr. & Mrs. David L. Weaver *
Mr. & Mrs. Vernon A. Webster *
Mr. & Mrs. Jerrold G. Weinberg
Mr. & Mrs. Floyd E. Westbrook
Mr. Frank P. Wetherbee x

Mr. & Mrs. Robert J. Whann Ill *
Mr. C. Cody White Jr. *

Dr. & Mrs. Robert S. White *

Mr. & Mrs. R. W. Whitman

Mrs. Margaret M. Wilkerson

Mr. & Mrs. W. R. Wilkerson *

Mr. & Mrs. Donald M. Wilkinson *
Mr. E. M. Wilkinson Jr.

Mrs. Victoria C. Willett

Mr. & Mrs. Cranston Williams Jr.
Mr. & Mrs. James B. Williams *
Mr. & Mrs. James W. Williamson *
Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Willis

Mr. & Mrs. Anthony M. Wilson *
Mr. Robert E. Wilson

Mr. & Mrs. Grover Winstead

Mr. & Mrs. Louis Wiser Jr. *

Ms. Martha Shelton-Wolf *

Mr. & Mrs. Walter |. Wolfson

Mr. & Mrs. R. K. Woltz

Mr. & Mrs. M. E. Wood Jur. *

Mr. & Mrs. Walter K. Woodward *
Mr. Charles P. Wreaks III

Mr. & Mrs. Lewis Wrenn

Mr. Richard W. Zahn

Dr. & Mrs. Gerald J. Ziebert*

 

The Annual Fund:

Friends

Each year, Washington and Lee receives many gifts in sup-
port of current operations from persons who are neither alum-
ni nor parents. Most of the gifts from these ‘‘friends’’ are
unrestricted and are given in the form of direct grants or in
the form of memorials. Washington and Lee is deeply grateful
for these gifts. Those donors whose names are followed by a
(°) are members of the Lee Associates and made gifts of
$1,000 or more in 1983-84; those donors whose names are
followed by a (*) are members of the Colonnade Club and
made gifts of $100-$999 in 1983-84.

Mrs. William H. Armstrong *

Harold G. Ast

Dr. & Mrs. George Austen Jr.

Richard A. Austin

Bankers Trust of South Carolina

Mrs. W. H. Biesel

The John S. Blum Family

Mrs. Sybil Boland

Mrs. Jeanette Boone

Mrs. John P. Bronstein*

Cadavere

George Campbell Associates
Corporatione

Mrs. Cordelia Penn Cannon

Mrs. George H. Carr*

Lowry M. Close

Crum and Forster Foundatione

Derby David

Mr. & Mrs. Burke Daves

J. Sanford Doughty x

Mrs. Thomas P. Duncan Jr.e

Edward Eagles

Henry B. Fairchild Ill

Frigid Freeze Foods, Inc.e

Mr. & Mrs. Joseph A. Gilchrist Jr.

Arthur D. Guy

Fred Haislip Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Dale Harris

Mrs. H. M. Hayne*

Victor W. Henningsen Jr. *
Mrs. Nona J. Jonese

John J. Kirlin*

Mr. & Mrs. Warner M. Lewis
John W. Luster*

 

Mrs. Helen McMahon

Mrs. S. Thomas Martin*

Robert G. Marshall

Allan McDonald *

Carter V. McNeesex

Mr. & Mrs. G. Otis Mead III

Mendon-Upton Regional
Teachers Association

Mrs. Cornelius Middletone

Mrs. Richard H. Middleton Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Dan Miller Ill

Max D. Miller

Mrs. Lindsey L. Moore *

Mrs. Milton Morrison

Dr. William W. Old III

John D. Owen Jr. *

J. Robert Philpott Jr.*

Miss Mary R. Quinlane

Mrs. Betty R. Schewel

Manfred F. Schroeder

John F. Shuler

Mrs. James G. Smith *

Sweet Briar Alumnae Association

Mrs. William O. Thomase

Mr. & Mrs. W. Warren Upton*

Miss Jacquelyn Elaine Vinson*

Mr. & Mrs. Peter Ward Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Rom Weatherman *

Mrs. Marcia M. Weinberg

Harold B. Whiteman Jr.

Dr. John D. Wilsone

Dr. & Mrs. John H. Wise

Mrs. William L. Woodall *

 

Virginia Foundation

for

Independent

Colleges

A record $2,513,533 was contributed by business and in-
dustry to 14 private Virginia colleges through the VFIC during
1983-84. Washington and Lee’s share was $213,439.

Under the direction of a board that includes 38 business
leaders and the presidents of the 14 independent colleges, the
VFIC enlisted nearly 1,000 supporters, primarily corporations
doing business in Virginia who are concerned with strengthen-
ing private higher education. Although, because of space
limitations, the full listing of donor sources published annually
in the VFIC annual report is not repeated here, Washington
and Lee acknowledges with gratitude the concern and leader-
ship of the companies, foundations and individuals, who made
generous contributions through the VFIC. |

 

 

 

Business
and
Industry

Washington and Lee
University was assisted in
large measure during
1983-84 by direct grants for
current expenditures from
corporations in addition to
corporate assistance received
through the Virginia Foun-
dation for Independent Col-
leges (VFIC). Investments
by private business in
private education take on
special meaning and impor-
tance. The total of these
gifts during the 1983-84
year was $73,424.

American Broadcasting
Companies, Inc.
Amoco Oil Company
Bayview Construction
Browning-Ferris Industries
4 B's Restaurants, Inc.
George Campbell Associates, Corp.
Canon Safety & Health Co., Inc.
Cellar Door Entertainment
of Virginia
Central Telephone Company
of Virginia
Compubank Services
Crothers Insurance Agencies, Inc.
Custom Audio, Inc.
Deandale Plantation
The Decatur Daily
_ Law Offices of Dexter L.
Delaney, P.C.
Dod Distributing Company, Inc.
Dominion Bank
John D. Eiland Company, Inc.
Exxon Education Foundation
Dr. Kenneth M. Fink, Inc.
Fitzpatrick & Mullis, Attorneys
at Law
John W. Gannon & Associates, Inc.
Greeneville Publishing Company
Grimes, Goebel, Parry, Blue,
Boylston & McGuire
Hartenstine Insurance Agency
Hecht’s
Hopping Boyd Green & Sams
Hunton & Williams
Gene Lail Sales Agency, Inc.
G. H. Leidenheimer Baking Co.,
LTD
Leonard Enterprises
Linder Industrial Machinery Co.
Lykes Brothers, Inc.
McClain and Company
McClintock Farms, Inc.
The Maryland Company, Inc.
Scott C. Mason Associates
Metal Distributors, Inc.
Mills Engineering
Morrow Enterprises, Inc.
National Homes Corporation
Nationwide Pest & Termite
Control, Inc.
Patten, Wornom & Watkins
T. Rowe Price Associates
Foundation, Inc.
Retzer & Retzer, Inc.
The Roanoke Times & World-News

 

Robinson Company, Inc.
Scott Electric, Inc.
The Sears-Roebuck Foundation
The Scripps-Howard Foundation
Silver Dollar Bar
James R. Stewart Enterprises, Inc.
Jack Thomas Inc.
Time-Life Books Inc.
Gene Tripp Jdr., Inc.
Valley Center Florist
The Virginian-Pilot and
The Ledger-Star
The Winchester Star
Wise & Waddell Insurance Agency

Matching Gifts

ACF Foundation, Inc.
Aetna Life and Casualty
Airco, Inc.
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
Alcoa Foundation
Alleghany International, Inc.
Allis-Chalmers Corporation
Allstate Insurance Companies
Akzona, Inc.
American Bell
American Broadcasting
Companies, Inc.
American Cyanamid Company
American Electric Power Corporation
American Express Company
American General Corporation
American Hospital Supply Corp.
American International Group
American Maize Products Company
American Standard, Inc.
American Telephone and
Telegraph Company
Amoco Foundation, Inc.
Armco Foundation
Ashland Oil, Inc.
Atlantic Richfield Company
Automatic Data Processing
Avondale Education and
Charitable Foundation
Bank America Foundation
Bankers Trust Company
The Bank of New York
Barclays American Corporation
Becton, Dickinson and Company
Bell Laboratories
Bell of Pennsylvania
Best Products
H & R Block, Inc.
Blue Bell Foundation
Borden Foundation, Inc.
Brown-Forman Distillers Corp.
Burlington Industries Foundation
Cabot Corporation
Campbell Soup Company
Carpenter Technology Corporation
Caterpillar Tractor Company
CBT Corporation
Celanese Corporation
Centel Corporation
Centerre Bank
Certain-Teed Products Corporation
Champion International Corporation
The Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Bank
The Chesapeake Corporation
of Virginia
Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company
Chevron USA, Inc.
Chicago Title and Trust
Chubb and Son, Inc.
CIBA-GEIGY Corporation
Citicorp
Citizens and Southern
National Banks
Clark-Peeper Company
Clorox Company
The Coca-Cola Company
Columbia Gas System
Columbia Gas Transmission
Corporation

 

Combustion Engineering, Inc.
Commercial Union Insurance Co.
Commonwealth Life Insurance Co.
Connecticut Mutual Life
Continental Carbon Company

The Continental Group, Inc.
Continental Telecom

Cooper Industries, Inc.

Coopers & Lybrand

Corning Glass Works

Cowles Media Company

CPC North America

Crocker National Bank Foundation
Crum & Forster Insurance Company
CSX Corporation

Deere and Company

Deloitte Haskins and Sells
Dennison Manufacturing Co.
Digital Equipment Corporation
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc.
Dow Chemical USA

Dow Jones and Company

_Dravo Corporation

Duke Power Company

Dun and Bradstreet

Elis-Olsson Chesapeake Foundation

Enserch Corporation

Equitable Life Assurance Society

Equitable Life Insurance of lowa

Ernst and Whinney

Ethyl Corporation

Ethicon, Inc.

Exxon Corporation

Faegre and Benson

Fidelity and Deposit Co.

Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co.

The First Atlanta Foundation

First Chicago Corporation

First Maryland Bancorp

First and Merchants National Bank

First National Bank of Louisville

First Union Corporation

First Virginia Banks, Inc.

FMC Corporation

Ford Motor Company Fund

Freeport-McMoRan, Inc.

Gainesway Farm

Gannett Newspaper Foundation

Gatx Corporation

General Dynamics Corporation

General Electric Company

General Foods Corporation

General Mills, Inc.

General Reinsurance Corporation

General Telephone and Electronics

Georgia-Pacific Corporation

Getty Oil Company

B. F. Goodrich Company

Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co.

Great Lakes Rubber and Supply, Inc.

Gulf Oil Foundation

Gulf States Utilities Company

Halliburton Education Foundation

Hammermill Paper Company

Harris Corporation

The Hartford Insurance Group

H. J. Heinz Company

Hercules, Inc.

Hershey Foods Corporation

Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.

Home Life Insurance Company

Household International

Hughes Aircraft Company

Industrial Indemnity Company

Ingersoll-Rand Company

Integon Corporation

International Business Machines

International Minerals and Chemical
Corporation

International Telephone and
Telegraph

James River Corporation

Jefferson-Pilot Broadcasting Co.

John Hancock Mutual Life
Insurance Company

Johnson and Higgins

Johnson and Johnson

Johns-Manville Company

J. A. Jones Construction Co.

 

Kennedy's Piggly Wiggly Store

Kerr-McGee Corporation

Kidder, Peabody and Company

Kimberly-Clark Foundation

Koppers Company, Inc.

Lake City Industries

Lukens Steel Company

McCormick and Company, Inc.

McDonalds Corporation

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

McGuire Woods and Battle

McKesson Corporation

Mac Panel Company

Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.

The Marley Company

Martin-Marietta Corporation

Marsh and McLennan Asset
Management Company

The Mead Corporation

William M. Mercer, Inc.

Merck and Company, Inc.

Merrill Lynch and Company, Inc.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.

Midlantic National Bank

Milliken and Company

Minnesota Mining & Manufacturers
Company

Mitre Corporation

Mobile Oil Corporation

Monsanto Company

Montgomery Ward and Company, Inc.

Moore McCormack Resources, Inc.

Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.

Morgan, Lewis and Bockius

Morgan Stanley and Company, Inc.

Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co.

Nabisco Brands, Inc.

NCR, Inc.

National City Bank

National H&W Mutual Life Insurance

National Steel Corporation

National Westminster Bank

Nationwide Foundation

New England Life Insurance Co.

New Jersey Bell Telephone Co.

New York Telephone Co.

The New York Times

The Nokota Company

Norfolk Southern Corporation

Northern States Power Co.

Northern Telecom

The Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Company

Northwestern National Bank

Northwestern National Life
Insurance Company

Occidental Petroleum Corporation

Olin Corporation

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

Pennzoil Company

Perpetual Royalty Syndicate

Peterson, Howell and Heather, Inc.

Phelps Dodge Foundation

Philip Morris, Inc.

Phillips Petroleum

Piedmont Aviation, Inc.

T. Rowe Price, Inc.

Price Waterhouse and Company

Proctor and Gamble Company

Provident Life and Accident
Insurance Company

The Prudential Foundation

Public Service Electric and Gas Co.

The Quaker Oats Company

Raytheon Company

Revion, Inc.

Reynolds Metals Company

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Rhode Island Hospital Trust
National Bank

Ryan Homes, Inc.

Salomon Brothers, Inc.

Scallop Corporation

Joseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc.

Seattle Trust and Savings Bank

Security Pacific Corporation

Shell Oil Company

45

 

 

Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. Time, Inc.

Signode Corporation The Travelers Insurance Companies

SmithKline Foundation Trust Company of Georgia

Snelling and Snelling TRW, Inc.

Sonat, Inc. UGI Corporation

South Central Bell Telephone Co. Union Oil Company of California

Southeast Banking Corporation Union Trust Company

Southeast Electronics, Inc. United Brands Foundation

Southern Bell Telephone and United Technologies Corporation
Telegraph Company United Virginia Bankshares

Southland Corporation Universal Leaf Tobacco Co., Inc.

Southside Animal Clinic, Inc. United States Engineering Co.

Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. United States Fidelity and

Springs Mills, Inc. Guaranty Company

Standard-Coosa-Thatcher Co. United States Leasing

Stanadyne, Inc. International, Inc.

The Standard Oil Company United States Steel Corporation

State Mutual Life Company United States Tobacco Company

J. P. Stevens and Company Vulcan Materials Company

Stone and Webster, Inc. Wachovia Corporation

Suna Brothers, Inc. Warner-Lambert Company

The Superior Oil Company The Washington Post Company

Syntex Corporation Wausau Insurance Companies

Tandy Corporation Wells Fargo Bank

Tanner Company, Inc. Western Electric Company

Tenneco, Inc. Westinghouse Educational

Texaco, Inc. Foundation

Texas Commerce Bank

Texas Eastern Corporation

Textron, Inc.

Tektronix Foundation

Thomas and Betts Corporation

Thomas and Fiske P.C.

Westvaco Corporation

White Consolidated Industries
Winston-Salem Health Care Plan
Xerox Corporation

 

West Point Pepperell Foundation Inc.

 

Memorials

To honor fellow alumni, relatives, or friends, many donors
make gifts to Washington and Lee for capital or current sup-
port in the form of memorials. Those who made such gifts in
1983-84 are listed elsewhere in this report in the appropriate
places based on the purpose of their gifts. Listed here are the
names of those honored by such gifts.

Sara D. November

Eugenia Morrison Oliver
Alma Pleasants

Marjorie Poindexter

Andrew J. Power '48L
Richard J. Reed Jr. ‘78
Alan Regan

William H. Robinson ’34, ’37L
George R. Shaw ‘15

James G. Smith '25

Mrs. Maurice Strause
Charles R. Stribling Jr. '17
O. Bancroft Taylor ‘32
William O. Thomas ‘31

Fred M. Vinson Jr. 48, ’51L
John Walker Vinson Jr. ’36
Jane G. Watkins

William L. Webster ‘12
Thomas Carlyle Wilson Jr. '43
Ernest M. Wood ur. ’30
William L. Woodall ’32

Ruth Neely Young

William H. Armstrong ‘43
John W. Ball ’32, 35L
John Barroll

Adrian L. Bendheim Sr.
John Roser Bestor ‘82
Lorenzo G. Blacksmith
John G. Boatwright °15
Mary Archer Glass Boatwright
Robert McDearmon Boatwright '42
Thomasson M. Boland '34
John V. Bowser '30
Melissa Boyd

J. Paul Bronstein '26, ’30L
Thomas B. Bryant Jr. ’28L
Marshall M. Callison ‘20
Deverton Carpenter '36
George H. Carr '28

John V. Coe Jr. '25
James T. Cooke ur. '54
Jessie McCall Gallivan Fewell
James V. Freeman '32
Patricia M. Gassman

Sara Taylor Gilreath
Horace Gordon

R. C. Haydon Jr. ’46

C. W. Hussey Jr. ’23
William H. Jeter 18

Lewis K. Johnson

Robert R. Kane °17L
Floribel Kaufman

George H. Lanier ‘29
Dora Lewis

Ross L. Malone '32L

Mrs. James Bland Martin
Oliver W. McClintock '23
Wiley C. Mohrman
Lindsey Lee Moore '19
Milton Morrison

 

46

 

Estates and Irrevocable
Deferred Gifts

The following persons have either created an irrevocable
deferred gift on behalf of Washington and Lee or have in-
formed the Trustees that they have included the University in

their wills or estate plans.

Irrevocable deferred gifts are charitable arrangements
whereby income is retained for the lifetime of the donor
and/or his or her beneficiaries. An income tax deduction is
available at the time the deferred gift is created even though
the principal does not pass to Washington and Lee until the
death of the donor or beneficiaries.

Also included are planned gifts to Washington and Lee
which use life insurance as the financial arrangement.

C. Edmonds Allen '32
Charles V. Amole '29
Thomas D. Anderson '34L
Willis M. Anderson ’52L
Edmund H. Armentrout '68
W. D. Bain Jr. ’49L

Edgar A. Basse Jr. ‘39
John D. Battle '34

John W. Beaire '39L
Benjamin V. Blagg II '47L
Calhoun Bond ‘43

Harry Lee Bowman '36
David R. Braun '76

Harry J. Breithaupt Jr. '36
Irving B. Bricken '33

A. Compton Broders Jr. '38
William J. Brooks Jr. '33
Robert G. Brown '49
William E. Brown ’30
George E. Burks '27
William Burtner ‘17, '21L
Calvin T. Burton ’25

C. Lynch Christian Sr. '16
A. B. Claytor F

Henrietta B. Claytor F

A. Christian Compton ’50, ’53L
Thomas A. Courtnay Ill ‘51
George Lloyd Cowan Ill '48L
John L. Crist Jr. '45

Robert S. Curl ’47

Calvin H. Curry Jr. '56

|. Langston Donkle Ill '74
Ben R. Downing Jr. P

M. Irvine Dunn Jr. ‘23

E. Stewart Epley ‘49

James D. Finley Il ‘35L
William B. Fitzgerald F
Alvin T. Fleishman ‘41
James M. Franklin '35
Julian S. Fulcher Ill °74
Fred O. Funkhouser ’34
William B. Geise Jr. '45

H. Mynders Glover '76
Horace Gooch Jr. ’31L
Robert B. Graham ’73
Edward S. Graves ’30
Howard Greenblatt '44
Eugene E. Griese Jr. '46
Bernard Candler Grigsby Il °72
John G. Guerrant ’24

John G. Hamilton °32
Alexander M. Harman Jr. ’44L
Houston H. Harte '50
Lawrence P. Haynes ‘22, '25L
Edward O. Henderson ‘25
John T. Herwick '36

Robert W. Hilton Jr. ‘38
Robert C. Hobson ’40, '42L
Samuel B. Hollis '51

William B. Hoofstitler '36
Farris P. Hotchkiss '58

-C. Royce Hough Ill "59

 

Woodson P. Houghton '15
Mr. & Mrs. James L. Howe Jr. 18
William D. Hoyt Jr. ‘32

Mrs. William A. Hyman F
W. Gordon ller Il ’51
Sidney Isenberg ‘42

Earl T. Jones ’30

Hannibal N. Joyce '32L
Joseph J. Kaplan '28
Kenneth L. Keil ’30
Christoph Keller Jr. '39
John G. Kennedy Ill ’83
Robert L. King ‘24

S L Koplad ur. °43

T. Kerr Laird °33

William H. Leedy ‘49
William Revell Lewis Ill ’73
Herbert B. Luria Ill °31
William J. Luria ’28

Mrs. E. Carlyle Lynch Jr. F
G. Sage Lyons '58, '60L
Lucile Emerson MacCorkle F
Mrs. Ross L. Malone F
Bertram B. Mantell 35
Richard P. Marcus ’51
James Bland Martin ’31L

D. Carleton Mayes '47L
Herbert G. McKay ’51L
Grace McPhail Mitchell F
Robert H. Moore Jr. '44
Gus Morgan '35

Edwin A. Morris '26

George C. Morris Jr. '46
Mrs. Hilton W. Mount F
Peter G. Muhlenberg ‘50
John E. Neill ’38

Milburn K. Noell Jr. °51, 54L
William A. Noell '64

Neilson J. November ’45

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. 733, ’35L
Gilmore N. Nunn ’31

Foster M. Palmer '34

Frank L. Paschall Jr. '43
Matthew W. Paxton Sr. '18, '20L
Markham L. Peacock Jr. ’24
John T. Perry Jr. '41

Marvin B. Perry Jr. F

H. Merrill Plaisted Ill 57
William B. Poff ’55L

Herbert Pollack '25

Lewis F. Powell Jr. ’29, ’31L
Benjamin L. Rawlins ’30L
Robert R. Reid Jr. '49
Dewey A. Reynolds ’22
Anne H. Roberts F

Paul A. Rockwell ’12

Robert W. Root '42

lra H. Samelson ’33

William W. Schaefer ’60

L. Roper Shamhart '47
Howard T. Shepherd 40:
Margaret Shepherd F

 

|
,
4
q
7
}
q

 

Xen N. Sideris ’52
Richard T. Sloan ’42
John C. B. Smith Jr. '67
Jerry G. South '54, ’56L
Jeffrey B. Spence '71

Mr. and Mrs. A. Erskine Sproul ’37
Harold E. Sturgill 55
Charles A. Sweet '36
Robert Lee Telford '22
Calvert Thomas ’38, ’40L
John Newton Thomas '24
Roland E. Thompson '52
J. Thomas Touchton ’60
Norfleet R. Turner ’51

W. Emory Waters '68
Harry W. Wellford '46
William C. Wilbur ’37
Maxwell P. Wilkinson '28
Lewis D. Williams Jr. '37
Carroll B. Wiltshire 13
Sherwood W. Wise ur. '63
William E. Woodroof '52
Raymond E. Wooldridge ‘60
James H. Woosley '42
Ellis N. Zuckerman '49

11 Anonymous

Estates

Estate distributions received
during the 1983-84 year reach-
ed a total of $220,457. Estates
in administration, of which we
have been notified but from
which there have been no
distributions are not included.

Lorenzo G. Blacksmith F
(Chunksa Yuha)
John G. Boatwright ’15A
Frank H. Brady '32A
Thomas B. Bryant Jr. ’28L
W. Earle Crank '15L
Frederic B. M. Hollyday '48A
David D. Johnson '21A
Donald G. Kaylor '25A
Jack G. Marks '32A
Lindsey L. Moore '19A
Clara Hood Nielsen F

 

Gifts for Restricted Current Purposes

Each year generous gifts are made for expenditure on

specific projects or programs within the current year’s educa-
tional and general budget. As such these gifts are restricted by
the donors as to use and are, therefore, not included in the
unrestricted Annual Fund. Such gifts are vitally important to

support academic enterprises of special focus.

Peter J. Abitante '78
Wesley E. Abrams '53

Carl Adams Ill °71

Margaret B. Adams F
Michael W. Adams ’86
Patton Adams ’65

Thomas A. Agnew '52

Mr. & Mrs. C. W. Alcorn Jr. P
Fred C. Alcorn F

George A. Alcorn F
Alderson Legal Association
Glynn M. Alexander P
Glynn M. Alexander Jr. '87
Mrs. Barbara J. Allen P
American Bar Association
Glenn E. Anderson Jr. P
Mrs. Karen Anderson P
Kevin Anderson ’86

Mrs. Faye R. Andrews P
Mrs. Louise M. Andsager P
Mrs. R. E. Anthony F

Alan L. Arey F

Patrick K. Arey '69, '76L
Mr. & Mrs. Richard Arey F
B. B. Armstrong '42L

David H. Arnold P

William A. Asimos P

William J. Atkins P

Dean Edward C. Atwood Jr. F
LeRoy Wren Autrey '83
William E. Baird Jr. F

Lt. Col. Kenneth N. Baker P
Ms. Christine H. Balthasar F
John D. Bamonte P

Mrs. Cicely A. Banfield P
Mrs. Catherine M. Barker F
Mrs. Marilyn B. Barlow P

 

 

Mrs. E. L. Barnes P

Mrs. Elizabeth T. Barnes P

R. B. Barnes Jr. P

Watson Barnes Jr. '86

Ms. Mildred C. Barnett F

Mrs. Carol Ann Barns F

C. Waller Barrett F

Mrs. Patricia J. Barstow P

Walter R. Beales Jr. '36

Dr. & Mrs. Harlan Beddey F

Dr. Daniel M. Beekler F

Ms. Ellen Bendheim F

Sam Bendheim III P

Vittorio Benedetto P

Mrs. Priscilla A. Benford P

Richard A. O. Bennett P

Earl T. Berry '66

James T. Berry Jr. ’85

Cesare Bertolini P

Ms. Nancy Bestor P

Brad W. Beutel '86

Gerard F. Biedronski Jr. '86

John C. Binford '58

Ms. Rosemary L. Bingham F

Judge Marvin L. Bishop Ill ’55,
‘60L

Mrs. Mary E. Blackburn P

Mr. & Mrs. Craig Blackstock F

Ms. Wanda W. Blanchard F

H. Bruce Boal P

Mrs. Hannah C. Boatwright P

R. J. Bolen ’65

Dr. Adrian F. Bom F

Mrs. June M. Booher P

John P. Boone F

G. Michael Boswell F

Mrs. Juanita M. Bowen P

Mrs. Barbara C. Boyd P

Thomas J. Boyd ’87

William B. Boyd ’72

Mrs. M. M. Braden P

James H. Bradley F

Jim H. Bradley F

Shane Braganza ’86

Jay P. Brain F

Ms. Evelyn T. Branic F

Wade H. Brannon P

Dr. Earl J. Brewer Jr. F

Thomas J. Brinkman P

Randolph W. Brinton ’68

P. K. Brock '54

Paul K. Brock Jr. ’78

Matthew J. Brogan F

Mrs. Mary Wetzel Browne P

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Brown P

Mrs. Jean C. Brown P

Mrs. Sarah M. Brown F

William D. Brown Jr. ’85

James K. Bruton Jr. '66

Mrs. Jo Denton Bryant P

John Douglas Buchanan '61L

Mrs. Patricia A. Buchanan P

Frank S. Buhler F

Edward C. Burks Jr. '74

James M. Burlingame P

Jon Burt '69

Richard C. Butler Jr. F

Col. Thomas D. Byrne F

Steven H. Caller F

Ms. Frances B. Cambria F

Mr. Guy Cambria Jr. F

Mrs. Nancy Lee Canby

Dr. P. Allan Carlsson F

Anderson B. Carothers ’65

David D. Carothers '61

 

David G. Carpenter '78

Dr. Darryl Carter P

John D. Caruthers Jr. F

Mrs. Katharine R. Caruthers P

John P. Case Jr. F

Mrs. Mary Munger Cassidy F

Ottis L. Cave Jr. P

Lafe C. Chafin '53L

Alex Chambers ’87

Tien-shang Chang F

Mrs. E. B. Chapman F

Charles L. Chassaignac IV '87

Mrs. Sheila Chatfield F

Leslie Cheek Jr. F

Thomas A. Church P

Christain P. Cimmino '74

Mrs. Martha B. Cleek P

Mrs. Marilynn J. Cobb P

W. T. Cocke Jr. F

Alton B. Cole P

Mrs. Rosann Coleman P

Dr. Milton Colvin F

Ms. Mary E. Connelly F

John L. Connolly '79

Ms. Maxine Perry Conrad F

Mr. & Mrs. David E. Constine Jr.
ho

Dr. & Mrs. Jay Cook ’43

Mrs. Lewis Cope F

RADM Frank W. Corley Jr. P

Roland S. Corning ’65

Clarence A. Cover F

William A. Cover P

Lloyd L. Craighill P

Mrs. Marlys J. Craun F

John A. Crawford ’86

Dr. David L. Croasdaile '61

Col. G. T. Crowell '37

Ms. Louise Fly Crump F

R. S. Cullen '54

John B. Cummings P

William L. Curtiss ’87

William N. Cutshall F

Stephen |. Danzansky ’61

Mrs. Ann T. Darling F

Gerald J. Darrell F

Joe Dashiell ’80

Kevin J. Davidson ’87

J. A. Davis F

Ms. Rebecca W. Davis F

Dr. J. H. Day P

Bruce N. Dean 84

Mrs. Veronica M. Deighan F

Mrs. Patricia Democko P

H. Hurtt Deringer P

C. David Dickey '87

C. David Dickey P

Spencer Dickinson '84

Ms. Sylvia B. Dickinson F-

Ms. Michela DiDuro F

Horace W. Dietrich Jr. 52

Robert P. Deithrich '87

John W. Dindinger '84

Samuel L. Doak F

Mrs. Patricia Donovan P

Ms. Marjorie W. Douglas F

Moulton S. Dowler Jr. '68

Joseph P. Doyle F

Dr. George F. Drake F

Mrs. Virginia B. Duesberry F

Mrs. Betty Jane Duncan P

R. C. Dunlap Jr. F

Mrs. Lucy D. Dunn F

Ms. Maria M. Dunn F

Richard M. Dunn III P

Wilton Rice Dunn F

Mrs. Mary M. Du Pre P

Walter L. Durham F

Dr. S. P. C. Duvall F

Alfred H. Ebert Jr. 50

Ernest V. Echols '41

Mrs. LaPrelle Edens F

R. C. Edmunds ur. F

Dr. J. MacDonald Edwards F

Leslie A. Eglin F

47

 

 

M. E. Ellinger Jr. P

Dale H. Elliott F

David M. Ellis ’65

Mrs. Marilyn B. Emmons F

Mr. & Mrs. Edwin H. Enzor F

Mrs. Gloria H. Esham P

Mrs. J. Thomas Eubank P

Mrs. William Ewing Jr. F

Henry Exall Jr. P

Mrs. W. R. Fagan P

Ms. Margaret S. Farmer F

Ms. Angela K. Farrand F

Tom Faulkner '74

William O. Faulkner Jr. F

David B. Favrot '82

Clifton C. Fay F

James L. Fay P

Robert A. Fearey P

Ms. Pauline J. Feimster F

Mrs. Evelyn Feldman P

Don M. Fergusson F

Mrs. Mary B. Ferrell P

Glenn E. Fidler ’61

W. C. Fisher Ill '87

Dr. Norton Fishman P

Robert L. Fitts P

Lex Fitzhagen ‘85

Mrs. Helen C. Fitzpatrick F

Mrs. Kathleen F. Foley P

Mrs. Danette J. Fountain F

Mrs. Roberta H. Foutch P

Jessie Paden Fox F

John G. Fox '44, '49L

Mrs. Corinne S. Franklin P

David A. Freeman '83

John P. French '50

Christopher W. H. Fulton '85

James M. Gabler '53, '55L

Edward A. Gadsby P

Mrs. Jeppie A. Gallalee F

Donald R. Gauvin P

J. D. Geist F

Mrs. J. D. Geist F

Kenn S. George '70

Maj. Gen. E. J. Gibson F

William M. Gibson P

Dr. Peter G. Gilbert P

Mrs. Kathryn F. Glazier P

Dr. John Brown Goehring F

C. W. Gooch Jr. Charitable
Trust '15

Robert U. Goodman '50

Frank Goodpasture Jr. '43

Edward A. Goodrich '50

Mrs. Mary Helen Gottwals P

William J. Goyer F

Richard C. Grace Jr. '78

Rick Grainger '84

Capt. T. C. Greenwood '77

William R. Greer Jr. '87

Ms. Elizabeth E. Gregory F

Robert K. Gresham '86

Irving M. Griffin Jr. F

Mrs. Kathleen A. Griffith F

Ms. Elizabeth A. Grogan P

Mrs. Joyce M. Groh P

Henry T. Groop '30

Herbert R. Groop '31

Mrs. Ruth D. Grover F.

Mr. & Mrs. Henry Gunst Jr. F

Dr. Ronald L. Gutberlet 56

James D. Hague Jr. '59

Greg W. Hair '85

Leroy M. Hair P

Ms. Adelaide O. Halprin F

Mrs. Jean Beth Hamblen P

Dr. Edward B. Hamer F

James T. Hamlin lV '87

Mrs. Lora E. Hamrick P

Timothy A. Hanan F

Mrs. W. J. Hancock F

Dr. John Handelman F

Donald R. Hansard P

Matthew R. Hansard ’87

Dr. Frederick N. Haring P

Mrs. Jane B. Harlow F

John M. Harney F

Reno S. Harp Ill ’54, ‘56L

John D. Harris Jr. '82

48

 

George W. Harrison ’36
Mrs. Irene Hartigan P

Ms. Cathy A. Hartman F

R. L. Hartman Jr. P

Dr. John Hassinger P

N. H. Hatten ’35

Mrs. Norma Hattings F
Samuel R. Hawkins '42
Jess Hay F

Harold Head F

Hayden W. Head Jr. '66
Herbert Heltzer P

Dean Edward O. Henneman F
Julian Hennig Jr. P

Julian Hennig Ill ’86

Dr. Paul E. Henson Jr. P
Mr. & Mrs. G. W. Herndon F
Mrs. Constance W. Herr P
Jeff Hersh F

Robert J. Hewitt F

Mrs. Nancy P. Higgason P
Thomas Higgins P

Judge Harold N. Hill Jr. ‘52
Dr. Jimmy V. Hill F

W. Patrick Hinely '73

Mrs. Joy Nalty Hodges P
Leland A. Hodges F

Ms. Ann Holden F

Mrs. Margaret E. Holbrook P
Lee M. Hollis '86

B. C. Holmes F

Jimmy Holmes '87

Joel H. Holt '73

Chris Hope '86

Ross A. Hotchkiss F

Mrs. Gail L. Houlihan P

Dr. Homer C. House '59
Mrs. Giohra Howard F

Mrs. Hilda F. Hudson F
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Huggins F
Elwood T. Hughes Jr. P
Hugh R. Hughes ‘43
James Humphreys P

Dr. John A. Hunt '52

Lee H. Hunt F

H. F. Hunter Jr. P

H. Robert Huntley F

Thomas E. Hurlbut '87
Mike Hutcherson '85
Christopher Hutchins ’60
William Kent Ihrig '84L
Thomas C. Imeson Ill '85
Mr. & Mrs. G. N. Ingram F
Mrs. Ross J. Interrante P
Theodore Irwin P

Charles M. Ives Jr. P

Mrs. Edward E. Jackson P
Ms. Patsy H. Jackson F
Mrs. Bernadette D. Janyska P
Tim Janyska '86

Dr. Roger B. Jeans Jr. F
Joseph C. Jefferis '87

Dr. Edwin P. Jenevein Jr. P
William H. Jeter Jr. ‘71
William L. Joel '85

Mrs. Champ R. Johnson F
Mrs. Donald M. Johnson F
Francis F. Johnson F

Ms. Helen M. Johnson F
Bruce W. Johnston F

Ms. Nancy S. Johnston P
Scott Bowen Johnstone ’86
D. Edwin Jones F

Harry T. Jones Ill '78

Lloyd H. Jones P

Capt. R. Clifton Jones Jr. P
Mr. & Mrs. Y. F. Jungman F
Mrs. Marta P. Kastner P
Mrs. Jane J. Katkocin P
Mrs. Patricia M. Kay F
Anthony F. Keast P

Mr. & Mrs. J. J. Kelley '74L
Walter D. Kelley Jr. F

Mrs. Jane K. Kelly P
Raymond B. Kelly Jr. F

W. Whitney Kelly 84
Caldwell C. Kendrick F

J. Lary Kephart P

James Y. Kerr Il '86

 

John H. Kerr Ill F

Ms. Susan S. Kerr P
William J. Kellea Ill P

Mrs. Ethel Killenbeck P
Dr. Emory Kimbrough Jr. F
Charles Taylor King ’85
Mrs. Dow King Jr. F

R. Robert H. King F
George Kinkead '85
James W. Kinman F

Dean Frederic Kirgis F

Dr. W. J. Knauer Ill '75
Mrs. Jeanne M. Knaus P
Edward P. Knight P

Ms. Lucy Fay Knight F
Mrs. Cordia P. Krastel P
Ms. Carol Kraus F

Ms. Katharine B. Kruse F
Col. Robert A. Kurek P
Mrs. Mary Purcell La Borde F
Russell Ladd Ill P

Dr. Robert T. Lafargue P
Todd Lafargue '87

Mrs. Elizabeth A. Languilli P
Ms. Gladys E. Lawton F
Henry A. Lederer Ill ’49
Mrs. Patti L. Lefler F

Dr. Francis E. LeJeune Jr. F
O. P. Leonard F

Jerome J. Levy P

Donald R. Lewis F

Mrs. Dora L. Lewis F

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Lewis F
Matthew S. Lewis '87
Steven Lewis '84

Perry Liles F

Mrs. Laura H. Lindsay F
William E. Lindsey '32
Christopher P. Lion '86
Fenn Little '84

David H. Livingston F
Mrs.. Richard M. Lofton F
Steven G. Logan '85
Alejandro Lopez-Duke ‘87
Norman F. Lord F

Dr. Robert T. Love Jr. F
Mrs. Jane B. Lowe P

Dr. Todd Lowry F
Tavenner C. Lupton Ill '75
William J. Luria '28
Joseph W. Luter III P

Dr. Frederick F. Lykes F
Frank G. Lyle F

John McAllister '85

Craig H. McArn '84

Mrs. Sally R. McArn P
John D. McCaffery '86
Clarke W. McCants Jr. P
John L. McCants '84
James R. McCausland Jr. P
Murray McClain P

Mrs. Patricia P. McClellan F
J. W. McClintock Ill ’53
Donald C. McClure Jr. ’69
Dennie L. McCrary F
Robert McCullough Jr. '86
Kevin McCusty '80

Roland E. McDonald Trust F
Mrs. Marian D. McElroy F
John F. McFadden '36
David McGehee ’'85

Mrs. Jane R. McGoldrick F
William D. McHenry '54
Ms. Elizabeth M. McKay P
Ms. Meg McKee F

Mrs. Betsy P. McQuiston P
Kirby W. Malone '51

Mrs. Fred E. Manasco P
Mrs. Heather L. Marion F
William P. Maroney P
David B. Marsh '86
Charles M. Martin P
Charles M. Martin Jr. '85
Ms. Joan F. Marvin F

Ms. Annie R. Massie F

Dr. William McK. Massie P
William McK. Massie Jr. '85
Mrs. Ada B. Matthews P
D. R. Matthews F

 

Mrs. Shirley A. Matzdorf P

Mrs. Lillian M. Mausser P

Ms. Alison H. Maxim F

Ms. Marjorie P. Maxim P

Jeffrey Mazza '87

Mrs. Jeanette E. Meadows P

John R. Meadows F

Mrs. Ruth Ann Messner P

R. William Metzger P

David J. Middleton F

H. L. Middleton F

David L. Miller ’84

Mrs. Mary Louise Miniard F

Mrs. Patricia P. Mitchell F

Charles M. Mitschow P

Dr. Roby D. Mize P

Mrs. Ann M. Mohr P

Charles D. Mohrmann '79

James K. Moles '82

Prof. Clark R. Mollenhoff F

Roy E. Monaco F

Samuel E. Monroe '58

Ms. Doris C. Moore F

Michael E. Moran F

Mr.& Mrs. Robert C. Morbeck

Allen Morgan '29

Robert B. Morgan Jr. ‘72

Hugh W. Morrell '56

Mrs. Anne J. Morledge P

Richard H. Morris ’86

Dick E. S. Mulkey F

Mrs. Patricia M. Muller P

Joseph J. Mullins '52

James E. Murphy P

Thomas F. Murray F

Wilfred A. Nabors '34

Scott G. Nagley '85

National Geographic Society

Judge Keith Nelson '53

Spencer Robertson Newell F

Oakie G. Newsome P

Mrs. Patsy M. Newsome P

Robert G. Newsome F

Ms. Cornelia Brown Nichols P

Mr. & Mrs. Shuford R. Nichols
30

Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr. '66

Dr. David R. Novack F

Donald F. Novak '48

Brent M. O’Boyle '87

Daniel J. O'Connor Jr. P

Mrs. Mary S. Ogden P

Michael Jackson Oglesby F

James R. Olin F

Mrs. Jeanne A. Oliger P

Mrs. Janet Osborne F

Mrs. Linda L. Oskam P

Mrs. A. B. Padgett F

Merrill A. Palmer ’50

Mrs. Dorothy C. Paone P

Edwin W. Parkinson Ill ’87

James T. Patterson Jr. F

Raymond B. Patterson Ill '83

Kenneth E. Payne '77, '83L

Mrs. Margaret L. Payne F

Thomas M. Pearce P

Mrs. Cecile Pearsall P

Michael P. Peck ’71

Mrs. Betty Lou Pee P

J. Carlton Peebles '84

Dr. & Mrs. Francis L. Peniston F
Capt. & Mrs. Robert C. Peniston F

Rhodes L. Perdue P

A. Winniett Peters P
Vernon W. Petty F

John E. Pfaff F

Mrs. Carol B. Phemister F
Phi Kappa Sigma Fraternity
Arnold Philhower F

William W. Phillips ’25

Ms. Marynelle C. Philpott P
Jerome C. Philpott ’84

Ms. Eve S. Phoenix P
Joseph T. Phoenix '86
Mrs. Mary Louise Pierce P
Mrs. Diana Pinckney P
Francis Pinckney P

H. J. Pinsoneault F
Anthony D. Pistone F

 

 

 

a eee

Mrs. Ruth Carpenter Pitts P
Dr. Herbert Pollack ’25
William C. Porth P

Miss Winifred W. Porth F
Mrs. Sally D. Potter P

Louis P. Poulton P

Mrs. Joanne Powell P
Robert H. Powell Ill '64, '67L
Ms. Muriel J. Powers F

Alan J. Prater '80, '80L

Mrs. Townes Pressler P
Thomas A. Pressly Jr. '50
Dr. & Mrs. William W. Pusey F
R. Penn Putman F

George Quirk F

The N. Joe Rahall Family Trust
Mrs. Martha M. Raichle P
Ms. Nancy E. Ratti F

Dr. George W. Ray F
Walter H. Rayner P

Clarke Reed F

Mrs. Julia Ann Reed P

Mrs. W. L. Reed P

Layton Register '85

Robert R. Reid Jr. '49.

Jim Renfro Jr. 86

R. Coleman Rice Jr. F

Mrs. Dorothy Richardson P
Mrs. Margaret M. Richardson P
Mrs. Nancy L. Richardson P
Timothy M. Richardson '86
Mrs. Helen S. Riley P

G. L. Buist Rivers Jr. P
Marsh Robertson ’85

Dr. & Mrs. Minor Rogers F
Capt. & Mrs. E. C. Rook F
Mrs. Elvera A. Roth P

A. Prescott Rowe '60
Howard A. Rubel F

John S. Runge '73

Charles A. Ruppersberger Ill F
Frederick C. Sage '46
Walter B. Salley Jr. '71

Don M. Sallinger '61

Ms. Laura N. Sammis F

Dr. Howard V. Sanden '54
Dr. John A. Sanders P

John S. Sanders ’86

L. Gray Sanders F

Thomas L. Sansonetti ’76L
William Sapp P

Dr. Edward C. Sargent Jr. F
George J. Sawyer Ill P

Mrs. Judith S. Saxe F

Mr. & Mrs. K. E. Scarisbrick P
Gerard H. Schlimm P

Mrs. Lucy T. Schoeffler P
Richard H. Schoenfeld ’80
Carl D. Schroeder '84

Dr. Richard D. Schultz P
Secretarial Office Support F
John R. Seifert P

Dr. Jerome D. Shaffer P
Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer F
Aven L. Sharp '73

Ms. Joan M. Shaughnessy F
Mrs. Norma M. Shehan F
Martin R. Shelton P

Dr. Richard H. Shepard '72
Charles G. Shepherd P
Stephen K. Shepherd '68
Charles C. Sherrill Jr. ’84
James M. Shoemaker Jr. P
A. J. Shoup Jr. F

David A. Shugart ’87

John H. Shumate ‘50

Ms. Beth Shuster F

Carlton Simons Jr. '87
Carlton Simons P

Ms. Christiane W. E. Simon P
Steven C. Simon '69

Ms. Mary Gwynn Simpson F
Sam Simpson F

James A. Skinner Jr. P

Mr. & Mrs. H. Richard Skutt F
Robert Z. Slappey '87
James B. Sloan Jr. '87

John R. Slowik P

Donald G. Smith P

 

Dr. J. Stephen Smith P

Dr. L. F. Smith Jr. P

Rutherford P. C. Smith ’68, '74L
William Burford Smith P

Ms. Louise Smithwick P

Robert Smithwick Jr. P

Judge J. C. Snidow Jr. ’40L
David Sorrells ’80

Mrs. Kathleen Kane Southard F

Mrs. Virginia H. Sowell F

Mrs. Thomas G. Spatig P

Kingswood Sprott Jr. 56, '59L

Mrs. Mary Ann Stachura P

Harry C. Stahel Jr. 86

Harry C. Stahel P

Lyndon S. Stambler F

Bernard S. Steiner Jr. '54

Dr. Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. F

Dr. B. S. Stephenson '42

Mrs. Mildred A. Stewart F

John C. Stockburger P

Richard J. Stoeffel P

James D. Strader P

John Stradinger III F

Earl Stradtman P

George W. Strake Jr. F

Dr. Robert E. Strange P

Mrs. Elsie N. Strickland P

Dr. Dabney Stuart F

Michael L. Suthard F

John P. Sutton ’84

Dr. Carl D. Swanson '54, ’57L

Mrs. Joane Swentzel F

Hugh N. Tarbutton F

John E. Tartaglione P

Dr. G. Douglas Tatum Jr. P

Dr. Herman W. Taylor Jr. ’57

Mrs. Margaret F. Teague P

Thamer Eugene Temple Ill '84

Mrs. Carmella S. Templeton F

John D. Templeton '86

Mrs. Mary S. Thalman F

Mrs. William A. Thau Jr. P

Mrs. Claire V. Thomas F

Clifford C. Thomas Jr. '50

Douglas M. Thomas '74, '77L

Robert McG. Thomas Jr. P

Mrs. Ann W. Thomason F

C. R. Thompson Jr. P

Mrs. C. R. Thompson Sr. F

Matthew G. Thompson ’64

Roy S. Thompson Jr. ’39

Ms. Dorothy Thrawley F

Dr. Robert C. Tolle ’57

Ms. Mary E. Tolleson F

Mrs. Robert H. Tolleson P

Capt. George F. Tolson F

C. C. Torbert Jr. P

Col. Harry E. Trail '30

James Berry Trimble '84

Mrs. Robin Berry Trimble P

William V. Trollinger ’53

Charles Tait Trussell '49

Mrs. Sally M. Tucker F

Ms. Margaret E. Turner F

Ms. Pauline S. Turner F

David Tyson '83

Arnold H. Uggla ’38

United Daughters of the
Confederacy

Patrick Valder '86

Michael B. VanAmburgh '80

Steven W. VanAmburgh '75

Dr. Robert J. VanSon P

Ms. Peggy Prag Varady F

Mrs. Joan O. Varner P

Ms. Anne Lloyd Vaughan P

Ms. Blanche B. Vaughan F

Virginia Environmental
Endowment

Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges

Mrs. Eugenia M. Vogel F

Robert Parks Vrooman Jr. ‘87

Robert D. Wagner Jr. F

Dr. George H. Wall F

John N. Wall Jr. P

Gene A. Wallace F

Mrs. Dolores M. Walther P

 

National Society of Washington
Family Descendants

Washington & Lee College
Republicans

Washington & Lee Executive
Committee

Mrs. Joan C. Waterbury P

A. Sprunt Watkins II '82

Tim F. Watson '66

Dr. William J. Watt F

W. Delaney Way Jr. ‘50

James M. Wearn '64

Rev. Ercel F. Webb P

Miss Doris M. Weber F

Andrew S. Weinberg '86

Kevin A. Welch '85

Leo J. Welder F

Greg Wheeler '86

John P. Wheeler P

Joseph G. Whelan Ill '86

Mrs. Jane Reid Whelchel P

Bruce W. Whipple '80

Dr. Robert L. Whipple ‘26

John White '74

J. Allen White P

Richard C. Whiteford P

Mr. & Mrs. James W. Whitehead F

David Wilkinson ’85

Donald McLean Wilkinson III ’86

 

Mrs. Henrietta W. Willcox P
Ms. Anita Williams F
Cranston R. Williams '86
James Franklin Williams '82
Dr. H. Thomas Williams F
Ms. Martha H. Williamson P
Hon. Thomas A. Williams Jr. '38,
*39L

Fielding L. Wilson Jr. '68
Dr. Robert L. Wilson F

Mrs. Jean B. Wiltse P

Dr. T. H. Winans F

J. Otis Winters P

Mrs. Carol H. Winterson P
J. P. Wise ’74L

Beverley H. Wood '74

Mrs. Helen F. Wood P
James L. Wood ’85

Ms. Jeanne M. Wood F
Anthony H. Woodson '51, ’53L
John N. Wrinkle F

W. B. Young Jr. ’60

Millard S. Younts '72

Ms. Mary L. Zartman F
Mrs. Margaret Zavatsky P
W. Dean Zimmer F

Bruce Zivley '77

2 Anonymous Gifts

 

Gifts in Kind

Many generous gifts are made to Washington and Lee in
ways Other than cash and securities. Listed here are the names
of those who contributed Gifts in Kind for the 1983-84 year.

Robert G. Brown

Mrs. Eva Temple Prather Butler
Leslie Cheek Jr.

James T. Cook Jr. Estate

Mrs. David M. Freudenthal

Dr. Joseph Goldsten

Mr. & Mrs. John G. Hamilton
Donald F. Heatherington

Mr. & Mrs. George W. Herndon
W. Patrick Hinely

Hollinger Corporation

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas H. Jones

 

 

Dr. Harry Lyons

Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr.

Miss Ruth Parmly

Samuel K. Patton

James Carter Prather

Mrs. Philip K. Sanders

Mr. & Mrs. Myron E. Tremain

Milam Turner

West Publishing Company

C. B. Wilcox and the Richmond
Light Infantry Blues

Class Agents—

Annual Fund Heroes

Washington and Lee’s Annual Fund has been among the
most successful in the nation for at least the last decade. The
heroes of those successful efforts have been the Class Agents
who work diligently each year to help the University maintain
its strength and the quality of its educational program.

Very few institutions place as much trust and reliance in
Class Agents as does Washington and Lee. It can truly be said
that if the Class Agents don’t do the job, it doesn’t get done.
Under the leadership and guidance of the Annual Fund Chair-
man, the Class Agents set their own class goals; plan and
manage their own class campaigns; and handle their own mail-
ings, from writing the letters to getting them stuffed, stamped,
and posted. The Class Agent who does more than is asked is
the rule, not the exception. Their outstanding record of suc-
cess testifies to their devotion, dedication, and plain hard

work.

Once again in 1984-85 they face a formidable task—the
Annual Fund goal is $1,450,000, a 7 percent increase over the
total raised a year ago. Those whose names are listed below
deserve both the support and the gratitude of all who care for
Washington and Lee.

Chairman:
James A. Meriwether, '70

Class Agents:
Academic

1915:
1916:
1917:
1921:
1925:
1926:
1929:
1930:
1931
1933:
1934:
1935:
1936:
1937:
1938:
1939:
1940:
1941:
1942:
1943:
1944:
1945:
1946:
1947:
1948:
1949:
1950:
1951:

50

Rupert N. Latture
Edwin B. Shultz
William J. Cox
Samuel L. Raines
Earl T. Andrews
Thomas T. Moore
T. Graham Gibson
Herbert G. Jahncke

: Houston M. Minniece

Charles J. Longacre
Scott Mosovich
Loyal P. Gassman
George W. Harrison
Richard K. Stuart
David N. Walker
Victor F. Radliffe
Ross V. Hersey
Alvin T. Fleishman
Leon J. Warms
Albert D. Darby Jr.
George T. Wood

E. Dean Finney

M . Pressley Mead
Warren G.'Merrin
William W. Burton
Mark W. Saurs
William N. Clements ||
James F. Gallivan

 

: George E. Eagle

: Hayes C. McClerkin Jr.
: Walter E. Smith

: J. Hardin Marion

: R. Gordon Gooch

: Richard R. Warren

: Malcolm A. Clinger Jr.
: T. B. Bryant Ill

: Malcolm Lassman

: William M. Bowen

: William L. Roberts Jr.
: D. Randolph Cole

: William M. Schildt

: Jack H. DeJarnette

: Michael E. Lawrence
: John S. Graham Ill

: Buddy Atkins

: John F. Carrere Jr.

: Willard B. Wagner III

: Joseph B. Tompkins Jr.
: Stephen W. Robinson
: Donald D. Eavenson Jr.
: Douglas C. Chase

: Robert A. Keatley

: Clay T. Jackson

: Joseph L. Carrere

: Charles V. Brown Ill

: C. Stephen Jones

: P. Craig Cornett

: Christopher Gammon
: S. Braxton Puryear

: Bennett L. Ross

: John M. Cleghorn

 

: Franklin R. Bigham
: Sherwood W. Wise

: Thomas E. Sparks

: William L. Martin

: Joseph Arnold

: Thomas W. Williams
: H. Tyndall Dickinson
: Clifford L. Walters

: Carter R. Allen

: J. Randolph Larrick
: Rufus B. Hailey

: Ernest M. Holdaway
: James C. Reed Jr.

: Robert L. Banse

- Donald R. Klenk

: Richard W. Hudgins
: Reno S. Harp Ill

: Overton P. Pollard

: Robert E. Stroud

: Richard H. Horn

: N. William Bath

 

 

: Robert E. Shepherd Jr.
: Raymond R. Robrecht Jr.
: Paul H. Bosell

: Thomas W. Budd

: James E. Kulp

: James S. Maffitt

: Joseph D. Logan Ill

: A. Alling Jones

: David D. Redmond

: Edward B. Crosland Jr.
: David L. Baird Jr.

: James A. Philpott Jr.

: John C. Moore

: Stephen G. Elkins

: Thomas K. Wotring

: Stephen D. Rosenthal

: Douglas M. Thomas

: Derek Swope

: John F. Murphy

: John J. Eklund

: David G. Weaver

: Robert M. Couch

: Matthew L. Kimball

: Peter W. Leberman

 

 

 

Wy.

& Gazette

 

Scholarship honors
Ross L. Malone

 

Through the generosity of friends of
the late Ross L. Malone, former Rector
of the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees, the Ross Malone Honor
Scholarship has been established in the
W&L School of Law.

The scholarship, in the amount of
$10,000, will be awarded in the fall of
1985 to an entering first-year student in
the School of Law who has demonstrated
superior academic achievement and the
high moral standards, diligence, and col-
legiality that Ross Malone exemplified.
Once awarded the scholarship will be
renewable for the second and third years
of study so long as the recipient con-
tinues to demonstrate the academic and
other characteristics that led to the
award.

“It is particularly appropriate that
Ross Malone be honored in this way,’’
said W&L President John D. Wilson.
“Having a Ross Malone Scholar in our
law school will be a constant reminder to
all of us of the many, many contribu-
tions that Mr. Malone made to this
University and to the legal profession.”’

Malone received both his
undergraduate and law degrees at
Washington and Lee. He held honorary
doctorates from seven colleges and
universities, including Washington and
Lée (1958).

Malone had been general counsel of
General Motors from 1967 until shortly
before his death in 1974. He had served
as president of the American Bar
Association in 1958-59. He was also a
Deputy Attorney General of the United
States in 1952-53 and was active in public
service in a number of other capacities as
well—including the chairmanship of the
Hoover Commission’s task force on
streamlining legal procedures in the Ex-
ecutive branch.

He was one of the principal drafters
of the 25th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion, providing for succession in the event
of the ‘‘death or resignation’”’ of the
President or Vice President.

Malone became a member of the

Scholarships honor Ross Malone, Rupert Latture

 

Malone

W&L Board of Trustees in 1967 and was
elected Rector of the Board in 1973.

According to Farris P. Hotchkiss,
director of university relations and
development, contributions may still be
made to the endowment fund for the
Malone Scholarship.

 

Scholarships honor
Rupert Latture

 

 

Two separate scholarships have been
established in honor of Rupert N. Lat-
ture, professor emeritus of politics at
Washington and Lee and a long-time
member of the University community: the
Rupert Nelson Latture Scholarship and
the Delta Upsilon Fraternity Scholarship.

**Professor Latture has contributed in
sO many important ways to Washington
and Lee that it is only appropriate that
he be honored in a manner that will con-
tribute so meaningfully to future genera-
tions of W&L students,’’ said W&L
President John D. Wilson of the two en-
dowed scholarships.

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Latture,
°49, of Greensboro, N.C., have created
the Rupert Nelson Latture Scholarship to
recognize Latture’s ‘‘extraordinarily long
years of devotion and service to
Washington and Lee.”’

The scholarship is to be awarded an-
nually to a deserving student who re-
quires assistance to attend the University.

Bill Latture is Rupert Latture’s son
and has himself been an active member

 

51

Le Gazette

of the Washington and Lee family, serv-
ing his alma mater as a director and
treasurer of the Alumni Board, a Class
Agent for the Class of 1949, and presi-
dent of the Greensboro, N.C., area alum-
ni chapter. Bill and Louise Latture are
the parents of a Washington and Lee
graduate, Richard Garland Latture, ’81.

The Delta Upsilon Fraternity Scholar-
ship was established in Latture’s honor
by the alumni of the Washington and Lee
Chapter of Delta Upsilon. Preference in
awarding the scholarship will be given to
sons and daughters of Delta Upsilon
chapter alumni.

Latture served as adviser to the frater-
nity, which was established at W&L in
1930 and remained active until 1971. At
its meeting in October, the board of
directors of the fraternity’s alumni
chapter voted to dispose of the remaining
corporation assets of approximately
$26,000 by endowing the scholarship
fund in honor of Latture.

‘*Professor Latture has been a valued
friend of the chapter for many years, and
we felt this was the very best way to
acknowledge his contributions to Delta
Upsilon,’’ said Emmett Poindexter, ’20,
°23L, of Rutherford, N.J., president of
the alumni corporation.

The vice president of the corporation
is Judge Joseph E. Hess of Buena Vista,
°60, ’63L; secretary is W&L law professor
Lewis H. LaRue, ’59; and treasurer is
Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of students.

Latture is a 1915 graduate of
Washington and Lee. As a student he
was one of the founders of the national
honorary leadership society Omicron
Delta Kappa, which now has chapters on
college campuses across the country.

After teaching for two years in private
preparatory schools and serving in World
War I, Latture returned to Washington
and Lee in 1920 in the political science
department. He was promoted to full
professor in 1941, the year he was named
head of the department.

Following his retirement from active
teaching in 1962, he stayed on as a
special adviser to the president at W&L
with a variety of assignments. He will
celebrate his 93rd birthday in January.

aps

 

 

Librarian takes new post

 

Maurice D. Leach Jr., head librarian
at Washington and Lee since 1968, has
resigned from that position, effective July
1, 1985.

Following a year’s leave of absence,
Leach will return to his professorial post
at W&L and will direct a newly-created
Friends of the Library organization.

W&L President John D. Wilson an-
nounced Leach’s resignation and said
that a search for a new librarian will
begin immediately under the direction of
John Elrod, dean of the College (of arts
and sciences).

‘‘Maurice Leach’s contributions to the
development of our magnificent
undergraduate library hardly need
documentation from me,’’ said Wilson.
‘*His 16 years in office have witnessed an
enormous growth in collection size and
quality and in the range of bibliographic
services provided to our students and
faculty. The University will long be in his
debt.”

The Friends of the Library organiza-
tion will be involved in increasing support
for the University Library, both in
monetary terms and in obtaining new
materials for the library’s collections.

Leach was appointed head librarian at
W&L in July 1968. At the time of his ap-
pointment, he was a program adviser to

the Ford Foundation at the American
University in Beirut, helping to upgrade,
develop, and build libraries for colleges,
universities, and governments in the Mid-
dle East.

He was pursuing that assignment on
leave of absence from his post as pro-
fessor and chairman of the department of
library science at the University of Ken-
tucky, a position he had held since 1959.

He holds a B.A. in history from the
University of Kentucky and a bachelor of
library science degree from the University
of Chicago.

 

Earl T. Jones’ trust
establishes scholarship

 

Earl T. Jones, ’30, had a dream of
making a significant lifetime gift to his
alma mater. He has realized that dream
not once, but twice, through Annuity
Trustee Agreements with Washington and
Lee.

In July 1975 Jones, a prominent
citizen of Raleigh, N.C., entered into the
first Annuity Trust Agreement when he
made a gift of General Mills’ stock
valued at approximately $55,000 to
Washington and Lee. Jones is president
of Jesse Jones Sausage Company, which
was founded by his father. He had just
sold the company to General Mills at the
time he made the gift.

The irrevocable agreement stipulates
that the principal of the Trust will
ultimately go to Washington and Lee for
the establishment of the Earl T. Jones
Scholarship endowment, the proceeds of
which are to provide financial assistance
to students from North Carolina, Jones’
adopted state. (He is a Virginian by birth
and does claim that ‘‘once a Virginian,
always a Virginian.’’)

In addition to attractive tax benefits
in this life income trust, Jones receives
quarterly annuity payments, set at his
desired level, for his lifetime.

Jones was extremely proud that the
agreement enabled him to fulfill one of
his strongest wishes.

So proud was he, in fact, that nine
years later in February 1984 he repeated
the arrangement by establishing a second

 

 

Annuity Trust Agreement. This one was
funded with Gulf Oil appreciated
securities valued at approximately
$70,000. This came about at the time of
Standard Oil of California’s buyout of
Gulf. Once again, Jones realized attrac-
tive tax benefits on the gift of the
securities. As in the earlier Trust, Jones
will receive annuity payments of a fixed
amount for his lifetime and the principal
will ultimately be added to the Earl T.
Jones Scholarship endowment.

The gifts are not surprising. Jones has
long been a generous benefactor of
Washington and Lee. He served as Class
Agent for the Class of ’30 for many
years and was instrumental in the all-time
high amount that his class raised for the
Annual Fund during its Golden Anniver-
sary Reunion year of 1980.

Of his latest contributions, Farris P.
Hotchkiss, director of university relations
and development said: ‘‘Washington and
Lee is forever grateful to Earl Jones for
his generous foresight. The future of
North Carolina students and indeed all of
Washington and Lee University will be
brighter because of this devoted
alumnus.”’

 

Alcohol educator mixes sound
advice with humor

 

Father Joseph Martin, widely
acknowledged as one of the country’s
most effective educators on alcoholism,
told an audience of about 1,200 at
Washington and Lee University on Oc-
tober 15 that alcoholism is the most com-
plex and destructive disease in the world.

‘Alcoholism is a disease that affects
the body, mind, and soul,’’ said Martin.
‘*It is the most destructive disease in the
world—most people who catch it die. It
is also one of the diseases of which we
know the least.’’

Martin made his presentation at
W&L’s Warner Center under the auspices
of the University’s Student Health Com-
mittee and the Baur Alcohol Awareness
Program.

Currently associate pastor of St. Joan
of Arc Church in Aberdeen, Md., Martin

is the author of several books, including
a new one entitled No Laughing Matter
and is co-founder of Ashley, Inc., a non-
profit, tax-exempt center dedicated to the
treatment of the sick and suffering
alcoholic.

Martin entertained his audience with
humor but delivered a sobering message
about alcohol and alcoholism.

An alcoholic himself, Martin was sent
to a treatment center for priests and said
that ‘‘the greatest thing I learned about
myself was I was sick, not evil.’’

He suggested that most of the drink-
ing done after high school is because
“it’s either the macho thing to do or the
sophisticated thing to do.”’

Among the reasons he listed for
drinking alcohol are curiosity, custom,
conviviality, escape, and euphoria.

Alcohol, said Martin, is a sedative
drug and alcoholism is the addiction to
that drug. ‘‘Once contracted,’’ he said,
“it lasts until death.’’

Martin compared the effects of
alcohol on the brain to the effects of
ether used as an anesthesia for surgery
patients.

‘*Alcohol acts on the brain precisely
the same way ether does,’’ he said,
scrawling the chemical formulas for both
on a blackboard. ‘‘Ether is a double shot
of alcohol without a chaser. Now if

alcoholism is the addiction to this drug,
does it make sense to use just your
mouth and not your head?’’

An alcoholic, Martin told the au-
dience, is someone whose drinking makes
trouble.

“‘If you are an alcoholic, your defini-
tion of alcoholism will not include you,’’
Martin said. ‘‘If your drinking is making
trouble and you want your trouble to
stop, stop drinking.’’

Alcoholism can be a deadly disease in
a variety of ways, he added. ‘‘It can kill
by sedation. You can overdose on
alcohol,’’ he said. ‘‘And it kills by the
ton on the highway.”’

Referring to the practice of drinking
and driving, Martin said that it is
physically impossible to drive competently
under the influence of alcohol.

Added Martin: ‘‘I believe that driving
in a drugged condition is a breach of
conscience.”’

Martin’s appearance at W&L was an
outgrowth of the University’s program
designed to educate incoming freshmen
about the dangers of alcohol abuse. That
program has been aided, in part, by the
establishment of the Baur Alcohol
Awareness Program which was establish-
ed through a gift from Andrew H. Baur
of St. Louis, a 1937 graduate of W&L.

 

Father Martin presents his ‘‘Chalk Talk on Alcohol” in the Warner Center.

a3

&& Gazette

 

President appoints committee
on University drug policies

 

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology and head of the psychology
department at Washington and Lee, has
been appointed chairman of a 10-member
committee that will review the Universi-
ty’s current policies and practices bearing
on the institution’s response to drug
offenses.

Washington and Lee President John
D. Wilson appointed the ad hoc commit-
tee upon the recommendation of the
University’s board of trustees, which ex-
pressed its interest in the subject as the
result of action of a special grand jury
that probed drug trafficking in
Rockbridge County.

Composed of faculty, students, and
administrators, the committee will be ask-
ed to submit a report which will be
reviewed by the president and the faculty
and submitted to the trustees.

In addition to Jarrard, the committee
consists of Peter Baumgaertner, a third-
year law student from Syosset, N.Y.;
Darby Brower, a senior from
Carversville, Pa.; Jay D. Cook Jr., pro-
fessor of accounting; Robert J. de Maria,
associate professor of journalism; Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion; Lewis
G. John, dean of students; Robert W.
McAhren, professor of history; Michael
A. Pleva, professor of chemistry; and,
Robert Tomaso, a senior from Milford,
Mass.

During its study, the committee will
examine the University’s own internal
agencies that are involved with cases in-
volving drug offenses and the institu-
tion’s relationships with external agencies.

Further, President Wilson has express-
ed his hope that the committee will make
recommendations to improve the Univer-
sity’s preventive or educational programs
and that it will be able to give some con-
sideration to questions associated with
student criminal convictions of other
kinds.

Jarrard has been head of the depart-
ment of psychology at Washington and
Lee since 1971 and has conducted
research into a brain structure called the

54

On-campus interviews of prospec-
tive students are up 83 percent this
year over the same period a year ago,
according to the University’s Office of
Admissions.

From June | through October 31,
admissions officials conducted on-
campus interviews with 738 high
school seniors. That compares with
404 interviews during the same period
in 1983. The increase includes 168
young women and 166 more young
men than last year.

In addition, the University’s admis-
sions office personnel and represen-
tatives of W&L’s Alumni-Admissions
Program are seeing more students dur-
ing college night programs and on
visits to individual high schools than
in the past several years.

‘“We have taken more information
cards and admissions materials on the
road with us this year, but we are still
running out of the literature in almost
every instance,’’ noted William H.
Hartog, director of admissions.

Though Hartog adds that it is too
early to predict what the increased in-
terest might mean in the actual

 

Admissions interviews increase by more than 80 percent

number of applications, he did suggest
it is quite possible that the University
will receive as many as 2,000 applica-
tions as opposed to 1,500 a year ago.

Last year the admissions office
printed 17,000 applications and
distributed about 16,000; this year
25,000 forms were printed and are
already gone with an extra 3,000 being
printed.

The increase in interest has caused
the admissions staff to expand their
high school visits. Officials will visit
600 high schools in 35 states this year.
Too, the admissions office has been
forced to add an extra hour of on-
campus interviewing on Saturdays—
traditionally the biggest day for
students to visit campuses.

‘‘So far we couldn’t be happier
with the increase in interest,’’ said
Hartog. ‘‘As we had hoped, interest in
Washington and Lee has not only in-
creased among young women who will
be entering the undergraduate schools
for the first time in 1985 but there has
also been a surge of interest among
young men.”’

 

 

hippocampus for the past 17 years with
grant support from the National Science
Foundation. For a number of years, Jar-
rard has taught a spring term class on
psychoactive drugs, which examines
psychological, pharmacological, and
physiological aspects of drugs with con-
sideration given to the response of society
to drug usage.

 

W&L Lab Jazz Band
plays at World’s Fair

 

The 19-piece Washington and Lee
University Lab Jazz Band took its music
to the birthplace of jazz in October when
it performed at the Louisiana World
Exposition.

Under the direction of W&L music

professor Robert Stewart, the band
presented a 45-minute program on the
Cornet Stage at the World’s Fair.

‘*Actually we didn’t play Dixieland,
though we did perform a couple of
‘blues’ numbers,’’ said Stewart. ‘‘Much
of the program featured ‘big band’ music
from the 1940s along with the new music
of composers Jay Chattaway and Rob
McConnell.’’

Arrangements for the appearance were
made more than two years ago when
Stewart sent organizers of the World’s
Fair a tape of the band’s music and some
photographs.

“It was a splendid opportunity for
our young musicians, not only perform-
ing at the World’s Fair but having a
chance to hear some Dixieland jazz while
we were there,’’ noted Stewart.

 

The W&L Lab Jazz Band was formed
two years ago with the addition of
several musicians to the existing W&L
Brass and Percussion Ensemble. That
ensemble has routinely taken a spring
tour, usually going to Florida and perfor-
ming on a cruise ship to the Bahamas
during the University’s spring break.

The W&L Lab Jazz Band’s World’s
Fair program featured soloists Whitney
Gadsby on the tenor sax, Adam Reinstein
and Todd Harvey on trumpet, John Riley
on trombone, and Todd Brown, Jay
Wingert, and Bruce Reed on drums.

The band performs at various W&L
functions throughout the school year and
provided pre-game and halftime enter-
tainment for this year’s Homecoming
football game which was held on October
13 at Wilson Field.

 

Craun examines blasphemy
in medieval texts

 

A study that determines the normative
meaning of the term ‘‘blasphemy’’ in
medieval texts has been published by
Washington and Lee English professor
Edwin D. Craun.

Craun’s essay, entitled ‘‘Inordinata
Locutio: Blasphemy in Pastoral
Literature, 1200-1500,’’ appears in the
scholarly journal, Traditio: Studies in
Ancient and Medieval History, Thought,
and Religion, published by the Fordham
University Press.

In the paper, Craun seeks to deter-
mine why poets, jurists, and chroniclers
call certain statements about God
blasphemous by analyzing the works
which popularized the teaching of the
church fathers and scholastic theologians.
The study is based on all the confessional
manuals, handbooks for preachers and
catechetical treatises which survive in
English libraries, as well as on sermons,
collections of canon law, and imaginative
literature.

Craun’s essay was researched and
written while he was a Visiting Fellow of
University College at England’s Oxford
University under Washington and Lee’s
program of faculty exchange with
Oxford.

 

Craun

While at Oxford in the winter of
1982, Craun read an early version of the
essay to the Oxford University Medieval
Society. That society is composed of vir-
tually all the dons from Oxford and
neighboring universities who do research
in medieval culture.

A related essay by Craun on Robert
Henryson’s 15th-century poem ‘‘The
Testament of Cresseid’’ will appear in
Studies in Philology this winter. Research
for that essay was supported by a grant
from the National Endowment for the
Humanities, and a shorter version of the
essay was read at a gathering of the
Southeastern Medieval Association earlier
this year in Charlottesville.

In October, Craun inaugurated a new
series of lectures sponsored by W&L’s
English department when he spoke on
‘‘The Hazards of Question-mongering: A
Cautionary Tale for Readers.’’ The lec-
ture was concerned with the question of
why people misuse language to lie,
slander, and blaspheme.

Craun has taught English at W&L
since 1971. He is a graduate of Wheaton
College and received the Ph.D. from
Princeton. He has been a Woodrow
Wilson Fellow and a Fellow of the
Southeastern Institute of Medieval and
Renaissance Studies. During the summer
of 1983, he was a participant in a Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities
seminar at Brown University.

 

Tucker Lecturer urges
changes in U.S. Constitution

 

Arthur S. Miller, professor of law
emeritus at George Washington Universi-
ty, told a Washington and Lee University
audience that the U.S. Constitution is no
longer able to adapt effectively to chang-
ing circumstances and requires major
revisions.

Miller, who is the author of 10 books
on constitutional law, delivered the 36th
annual John Randolph Tucker Lecture at
the W&L School of Law on October
19th.

Admitting that he was bucking the
tide of the ‘‘current euphoria that is
sweeping the nation,’’ Miller contended
that the Constitution ‘‘is always changing
with the times. What the people did in
1787 was tell generations of Americans to
write their own constitution. The Con-
stitution is always in a state of becoming.
It is always being updated.”’

But, said Miller, it is no longer possi-
ble to make the incremental adaptations
of constitutionalism that are necessary.

**Today and in the immediate
future,’’ said Miller, ‘‘we are faced with
a novel and unique set of circumstances
that, to me, suggest the need for rethink-
ing our constitutional order.

‘We are confronted with something
new and entirely unforeseen by those 55
men who wrote the document of 1787.
We exist in a system of pandemic social
change. Science and technology are on
the loose. No one really knows where
they are taking us.”’

He further said the current global
society and the influence of major cor-
porate powers in the United States today
represent a new situation with which the
current Constitution cannot effectively
deal.

Miller maintained that the only valid
end of government ‘‘is the promotion of
social justice’’ and argued that the
political and economic order in this coun-
try and elsewhere ‘‘does not achieve a
satisfactory measure of social justice.
Too many people are left out. There will
be increasing numbers left out in the
future.’’

>>

de Gazette

 

Justice Stephenson honored
by W&L School of Law

 

Justice Roscoe B. Stephenson Jr. of
the Virginia Supreme Court was awarded
honorary membership in the Washington
and Lee University chapter of the Order
of the Coif on October 12th.

The Order of the Coif is a national
legal honorary society which was founded
to encourage legal scholarship and to ad-
vance the ethical standards of the legal
profession.

Justice Stephenson’s award recognizes
his distinguished legal career. Since 1981
he has served on the Virginia Supreme
Court. Prior to that, he had served nine
years as a judge on the Virginia Circuit
Court.

He received his bachelor’s degree
from Washington and Lee in 1943 and
his law degree from W&L in 1947. He
was awarded an honorary degree from
the University in 1983.

Justice Stephenson had a distinguished
career as a practicing lawyer in western
Virginia prior to his election to the Cir-
cult Court bench. A fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers, he
was for many years Commonwealth’s At-
torney for Alleghany County and later
was in private practice in Covington and
Clifton Forge.

Justice Stephenson comes from a
family of Washington and Lee graduates.
His father, Roscoe B. Stephenson Sr.,
received the LL.B. in 1908 while his son,
Roscoe B. Stephenson III, received the
juris doctor degree in 1981.

The award to Justice Stephenson was
made during a banquet held for members
of the Washington and Lee Law Council,
the organization of law school alumni.

 

W&L professor receives
NEH grant

 

A team of biomedical investigators,
including Washington and Lee University
psychology professor H. Eugene King,
has been awarded a grant of $184,507 to
support its continued research on the
behavioral consequences of hypertension.

56

fe a

Justice Stephenson (right) with W&L Law School Dean Frederic L. Kirgis Jr.

The two-year grant was made by the
National Heart, Lung, and Blood In-
stitute. It will be used to continue the
detailed investigation of changes in
behavior which may result from marked
and persistent elevation of the cerebral
blood pressure.

In addition to King, the team consists
of two co-principal scientists from the
University of Pittsburgh School of
Medicine.

Currently on academic leave from
Washington and Lee for the fall term,
King is now at the Laboratory of
Physiology and Behavior in Pittsburgh
where he is devising the experimental pro-
tocol and behavioral tests that will be us-
ed to examine some of the questions aris-
ing from the team’s earlier research.

 

W&L Superdance contributes
$21,597 to MD Telethon

 

Students at Washington and Lee
University contributed $21,597 to the
Muscular Dystrophy Association during
the annual Jerry Lewis-Labor Day
Telethon Monday (September 3).

The money was raised last winter dur-
ing W&L’s sixth annual Superdance, a
three-day dance marathon.

Ricky de Alessandrini, a 1984 W&L
graduate from Norfolk and chairman of

 

      

last year’s Superdance, appeared on na-
tional television from Las Vegas presen-
ting a check to Lewis.

Meantime, W&L seniors Chris
Williams of Newark, Del., and David
Sizemore of Covington, officials of this
year’s Superdance, made an appearance
on the Lynchburg version of the telethon
which was shown on WSET-TV.

According to Williams, plans are
already underway for the seventh W&L
Superdance, which will be held February
|, Z, and 3.

 

Russ, ’78, named
research archaeologist

 

Kurt C. Russ has been appointed to
the position of research archaeologist for
the Washington and Lee University
Laboratory of Archaeology.

A Buena Vista native, Russ received
his bachelor’s degree from Washington
and Lee in 1978 and earned his master’s
degree in anthropology from the Univer-
sity of Tennessee in 1984.

As a student at W&L, Russ worked
on several of the University’s ar-
chaeological projects, including the Liber-
ty Hall project for which he was site
supervisor in 1976 and field supervisor in
1977.

During his graduate studies at Ten-
nessee, Russ participated in several im-
portant excavations. He was the mor-
tuary site specialist for a project in
Chillicothe, Ill., during the summer of
1980 and was field director and
laboratory supervisor for an excavation
in Knoxville, Tenn.

Russ is a member of the American
Anthropological Association, the Ar-
chaeological Society of Virginia, and the
Society of American Archaeology.

Since joining the archaeology
laboratory in July, Russ has already serv-
ed as project director on an ar-
chaeological investigation conducted in
Pocahontas County, W.Va.

 

W&L archaeologists uncover
possible burial mound

 

A team of Washington and Lee
University archaeologists have uncovered
what may have been a burial mound
dating from between 1000 B.C. and 900
A.D. in Pocahontas County, W.Va.

The W&L Laboratory of Archaeology
was contracted by Copper and Smith,
P.C., of Harrisonburg, Va., to conduct a
Phase II archaeological investigation of a
proposed waste treatment site near
Hillsboro, W.Va.

According to Kurt C. Russ, research
archaeologist for W&L, the team located
both a prehistoric site and one prehistoric
mound that is approximately 18 feet in
diameter and 2 1/2 feet high.

‘*The site was probably occupied on a
seasonal basis, and we anticipate the
mound may have contained human re-
mains and was associated with the site,’’
said Russ.

The W&L laboratory has recommend-
ed that further studies be made of the
area in the form of a Phase III
investigation.

‘“We have only been engaged in
limited testing of the mound,”’’ noted
Russ, ‘‘so it is too early to say what
might be contained in it. But there does
exist the possibility that it could offer
some idea on mortuary practices of the
time.”’

During the course of their investiga-
tion, the W&L team found 1,570 ar-
tifacts, all of which are lithic and repre-
sent the by-products of tool manufacture
of subsequent modification.

Included among those 1,570 artifacts
were three projectile points that offer in-
formation regarding the chronological af-
filiation of the site and mound. The
point types indicate a dominant Early to
Middle Woodland occupation for the
site. The Early to Middle Woodland
period in that area of West Virginia is
believed to be about 1000 B.C. to 900
A.D.

The artifacts found at the site indicate
the primary behaviorial routines occur-
ring at the site had to do with tool pro-
duction and hunting related activities, ac-
cording to Russ.

‘The mound component at the site
may offer us evidence of a more perma-
nent Occupation as well as a behavorial
routine associated with the treatment of
the dead,’’ he said.

John M. McDaniel, associate pro-
fessor of sociology and anthropology at
W&L and director of the laboratory of
archaeology, was the principal in-
vestigator on the project.

**This is the 17th job that we have
done of this kind under contract, and
while we don’t want to exaggerate the
importance of the find, it is clearly the
most unusual and potentially exciting that
we have had,’’ said McDaniel.

In addition to McDaniel and Russ,
the team included three W&L
undergraduates—senior Randall Ray of
Wake Forest, N.C., junior Ted Goebel of
Coolville, Ohio, and sophomore Paul J.
Smith of Gainesville, Ga. W&L graduate
Michael Gregory, now a graduate student
at Arizona State, and Linda A. Russ also
participated in the field work and
laboratory analysis.

 

34 W&L students included
in Who’s Who

 

The 1985 edition of Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities
and Colleges will include the names of 34
students from Washington and Lee.

Campus nominating committees and
editors of the annual directory have in-
cluded the names of these students based
on their academic achievement, service to
the community, leadership in extracur-
ricular activities, and potential for con-
tinued success.

Outstanding students have been
honored in the annual directory since it
was first published in 1934.

Of the 34 W&L students included in
the 1985 volume, 27 are seniors in the
University’s undergraduate divisions while
seven are third-year students in the W&L
School of Law.

Those selected to Who’s Who are:

Seniors: Ian B. Banwell of Cleveland
Heights, Ohio; B. Darby Brower of
Carversville, Pa.; Robert Bryant of Albu-
querque, N.M.; Samuel P. Dalton of
Springfield, Mo.; Cole Dawson of
Houston, Texas; John DiDuro of
Geneva, N.Y.; Jeffrey D. Dixon of Dun-
can, Okla.;

Ben Hale of Tracy City, Tenn; Glen
Jackson of Atlanta, Ga.; Todd Jones of
Muncie, Ind.; David N. Jonson of
Elmhurst, Ill.; Kevin H. Kelley of San
Antonio, Texas; Ken L. Moles of
Roanoke, Va.; Clarke H. Morledge of
Williamsburg, Va.; David L. Perdue of
Atlanta, Ga.; G. Bruce Potter of Rich-
mond, Va.; William L. Reed Jr. of Birm-
ingham, Ala.; L. Gray Sanders of Tam-
pa, Fla.;

David A. Sizemore of Covington,
Va.; James R. Spatig of Huntington,
W.Va.; David W. Sprunt of Lexington,
Va.; Charles W. Stern of New Orleans,
La.; Mark E. Sullivan of Atlanta, Ga.:
B. Scott Tilley of Richmond, Va.; Robert
J. Tomaso of Milford, Mass.;
Christopher Williams of Newark, Del.:
and, Peter M. Wright of Tuscaloosa,
Ala.

Third-year law students: Louise
Jackson Browner, now of Lexington;
Paul E. Fletcher III of Fort Lauderdale,
Fla.; Charles F. Martel of McLean, Va.;
M. Susan Palmer, now of Lexington;
Seth C. Prager of Rockville, Md.;
Patricia A. Shean of Arlington, Va.; and
John J. Sicilian of North Babylon, N.Y.

a7

& Gazette

 

 

Campus speakers

 

e James M. Cox, Avalon Professor of
English at Dartmouth College, delivered
the third annual Shannon-Clark Lecture
in English at Washington and Lee in Oc-
tober. His lecture was entitled ‘‘Adven-
tures of Huckleberry Finn: A Hard Book
to Take.

A native of Virginia, Cox holds
degrees from the University of Michigan
and Indiana University. He is editor of
Robert Frost: Twentieth Century Views
and author of Mark Twain: The Fate of
Humor and of numerous essays on a
wide range of American writers.

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in
English were inaugurated two years ago
at Washington and Lee by Edgar F.
Shannon Jr., Commonwealth Professor
of English at the University of Virginia, a
W&L alumnus, and a Trustee of the
University. The series honors the
memory of his father, chairman of the
Washington and Lee English department
from 1914 until 1938, and Harriet Mabel
Fishburn Clark, a grandmother of the
donor whose gift to W&L established the
lecture series.

e Robert J. Carson III, chairman of
the department of geology at Whitman
College in Walla Walla, Wash., presented
an illustrated lecture about the eruption
of Mount St. Helens in October under
the sponsorship of the department of
geology.

A native of Lexington, Carson had
studied Mount St. Helens for several
years prior to the eruption three years
ago.

e The United States invasion of
Grenada was the subject of a program
that featured observations by a medical
student who was in Grenada during the
invasion and a spirited debate by two
Washington and Lee professors.

After a presentation by Michael Kim-
mel, one of the medical students
evacuated from Grenada during the inva-
sion, Washington and Lee politics pro-
fessor John Handelman and W&L jour-
nalism professor Clark Mollenhoff took
opposing views of whether the invasion was
justified.

58

Felix P. Welch, 1906-1984

Felix P. Welch, former Cincinnati
Professor of Mathematics at Washington
and Lee University, died September 22
following a brief illness. He was 78.

A memorial service was held in the R.
E. Lee Episcopal Church in Lexington.

A native of Kewanee, Miss., Welch
taught mathematics at Washington and
Lee for 30 years, serving as head of the
department of mathematics for 25 of
those years.

He earned the bachelor of science
degree in chemistry from Mississippi State
University in 1929. He held the master’s
degree in mathematics from the Univer-
sity of Texas and received his Ph.D. in
mathematics from the University of
Illinois.

He served with the United States Ar-
my during World War II and retired from

Welch began his teaching career at his
undergraduate alma mater, Mississippi
State, in 1929. He taught at the Starkville,
Miss., school for 18 years before joining
the faculty at Washington and Lee in
1947.

He held W&L’s Cincinnati Professor-
ship of Mathematics throughout his W&L
teaching career.

One of Welch’s fields of research in-
volved developing visual aids in
mathematics. In 1967, the Mathematical
Association of America sponsored an
animated film, The Theorem of the
Mean, which Welch produced.

He was the co-author with
Washington and Lee mathematics pro-

 

the Army in 1961 with the rank of major.

 

fessor Robert S. Johnson of a text-
workbook, Calculus.

He was a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, the American Mathematical Associa-
tion, the Mathematical Association of
America, and the Virginia Academy of
Science.

When Welch retired from active
teaching in 1977, the W&L board of
trustees elected him Cincinnati Professor
of Mathematics, Emeritus.

Survivors include three cousins: Mrs.
Jeffrey Hardin Gainey of Lisman, Ala.;
Junius P. Welch of Houston, Texas; and
Mrs. Agnes Hardin Wood of Pensacola,
Fla.

Memorial contributions in Welch’s
honor may be made to the American
Heart Fund.

 

The program was sponsored by
W&L’s chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha, the
national honorary politics fraternity.

e Richard M. Rorty, the Kenan Pro-
fessor of Humanities at the University of
Virginia, presented a lecture entitled
‘‘The Objective of Values’’ in October
under the sponsorship of the department
of philosophy.

¢ Judge Randall T. Bell of the South
Carolina Court of Appeals was the
keynote speaker for Washington and
Lee’s 10th annual Legal Ethics in
November.

Bell’s lecture was entitled ‘‘The
Lawyer as Gatekeeper: Ethical Dilem-
mas.’’ The Legal Ethics Institute is part
of Washington and Lee’s program in ap-
plied ethics, ‘‘Society and the Profes-
sions.”’

e Milner S. Ball, Caldwell Professor
of Constitutional Law at the University
of Georgia, lectured on ‘‘A Theological
Approach to Jurisprudence”’ in the W&L
School of Law in November. The lecture
represented the principal paper for a
three-day colloquium held in W&L’s
Frances Lewis Law Center.

 

 

 

Chapter News

RICHMOND. A large percentage of the chapter’s members
gathered for lunch at the Downtown Club on September 11 to
hear two University Trustees discuss the coeducation decision.
Virginia Supreme Court Justice A. Christian Compton, ’50,
and Best Products Executive Vice President Frances Lewis
both emphasized the depth of the Trustees’ investigation, then
engaged in a lengthy and informative dialogue with alumni.
Chapter President Bill Garrison, ’76, recognized a number of
special guests in attendance, including former Rector John
Newton Thomas, ’24; former Trustee Sydney Lewis, ’40,
°43L; former President Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L;
University Relations Director Farris Hotchkiss, ’58; and,
Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms.

SAVANNAH/HILTON HEAD. Alumni from both areas held
a meeting September 26 to discuss the formation of a joint
chapter and to learn more about coeducation from two
visitors from the campus. Geology professor Sam Kozak, a
member of the W&L faculty for almost a quarter-century,
provided a perspective from the classroom as he responded to
questions. Alumni Secretary Dick Sessoms also made com-
ments about the Trustees’ decision and the University’s
challenge to implement it successfully. Prime movers for the
meeting included Bill Bowen, ’61, and Jamie Canup, ’84L, of
Hilton Head, and Rick Middleton, ’76, and Tom Rideout,
°63, of Savannah. Among those taking an active part in the
coeducation discussion were Lawton Calhoun, ’37, and
Charles Sipple, ’53. Sessoms announced that W&L President
John Wilson would meet with the joint group in March.

SAN DIEGO and ORANGE COUNTY. The two chapters
participated in an Old Dominion Party on October 19 at the
Admiral Kidd Club in San Diego.

LYNCHBURG. The chapter joined forces with Hampden-
Sydney’s Lynchburg chapter to charter a bus to the
Homecoming football game against Hampden-Sydney at
Wilson Field. With Lea Booth as its marshall, the group join-
ed the Alumni Association’s pre-game tailgate party and then
adjourned to the Alumni House for a post-game reception.

BALTIMORE. University Trustee Joe Keelty, ’44, and
geology professor Sam Kozak reviewed the coeducation deci-
sion with chapter members on October 16 and answered ques-
tions about implementation plans. The turnout included Alum-
ni Board member Bill Clements, ’50; University Relations
Director Farris Hotchkiss, ’58; and, Alumni Secretary Dick
Sessoms. Chapter President Tom Kiegler, ’77, presided over
the meeting and announced plans to give all chapter members
an opportunity to participate in funding of the Baltimore
Honor Scholarship in 1985. To date, 38 alumni and parents
have contributed or pledged $107,000 to the full-tuition
scholarship. It is held currently by Chris Alevizatos, ’86, and

 

4

 

RICHMOND—Matt Calvert, ’75, ’79L, and Bill Garrison, ’76, chat with
Trustee A. Christian Compton, ’50, following his presentation to the Rich-
mond Alumni.

=,

ri

Pi
vs
Fd

bi:

a

;

    

SA VANNAH—Professor Sam Kozak (left) spoke to the group which in-
cluded (from left) Tom Rideout, ’63, Dee Middleton, Bob Lockhart, ’73,
Jamie Canup, ’84L, and Rick Middleton, ’76.

 

BALTIMORE—Trustee Joseph Keelty, ’44, (left) with Baltimore Chapter

President Tom Kiegler, ’77, (center) and Secretary-Treasurer Bob Clements,
80.

 

BALTIMORE—Enjoying the festivities at the Baltimore meeting were (from
left) Cal de Coligney, ’61, John Wolf, 69, ’72L, and Joe Wich, ’69.

59

Chapter News

will be awarded against next year to another Baltimore area
freshman for four years.

ARKANSAS. University Trustee Christoph Keller Jr., °39, was
the host for a reception on October 12 at the Little Rock Club
in the Union Bank Building. Rev. Keller joined the group-in a
discussion of the coeducation decision.

ROCKBRIDGE. Members of the Rockbridge chapter attended
a pre-game tailgate party prior to W&L’s game against the
University of the South on October 20 and then enjoyed a
reception after the game.

PHILADELPHIA. An enthusiastic contingent of Philadelphia
chapter members spearheaded alumni from seven other
Virginia colleges for an Old Dominion Riverboat Cruise down
the Delaware River on September 21. Led by Chapter Presi-
dent Marty Bowers, ’80, and his wife, Anne, the large W&L
group was joined for the occasion by alumni of William and
Mary, the University of Virginia, Mary Baldwin, Richmond,
Roanoke, VMI, and Virginia Tech. Alumni Secretary Dick
Sessoms, on board for the first time, vowed to return for the
third annual cruise.

      
   

a
silt
~ aa
ea

  

PHILADELPHIA—This view was for members of the Philadelphia
Chapter who joined alumni of eight other Virginia colleges for a cruise
down the Delaware River.

Ye 2

PHILADELPHIA—Sam Stroud, ’83, enjoys the picnic lunch on the cruise.

60

iti,

 

The W&L Alumni Association has staged pre-game tailgate parties during
the 1984 football season. One picnic featured entertainment by Burr Datz,
74, (second from left) and his bluegrass band, Wildgrass. The Rockbridge
and Lynchburg alumni chapters have joined the tailgates.

  

Eg ae

 

PHILADELPHIA—Larry Davis, ’81, and Brad Poorman, ’83, were among
the W&L alums who took advantage of the annual Old Dominion cruise
on the 300-passenger riverboat.

 
    

\ gerne
i ge gg
i j

PHILADELPHIA—Terry and Dwight Jaeggi, ’77, cruising the Delaware.

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

   
 

|

lion f
o>

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms _ All black lacquer
$145.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $140.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

1927

ALLEN HArRISs JR. and his wife of Johnson City,
Tenn., received the highest honor given by
Washington College Academy, the Cum Deo
Omnes Award, at ceremonies held in September.
A gift made in the early 1960s by Harris and his
father, Allen Harris Sr., helped in the remodel-
ing of the girls’ dormitory, the building of a new
front porch and the complete refurbishing of the
kitchen. Also, the Harris Foundation helped build
the school’s new gymnasium complex. The presi-
dent of Washington College Academy, Paul
Gabinet, presented the award to Mr. and Mrs.
Harris in recognition of their service and spirit.
A room in the school has been named the Harris
Boardroom and portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Harris
were unveiled.

1932

SHERWOOD W. WIsE (See 1934.)

1934

SHERWOOD W. WISsE, chairman of the Jackson,
Miss., law firm Wise Carter Child & Caraway, has
been re-elected to represent the state of Mississip-
pi in the American Bar Association House of
Delegates. He has been active as co-chairman of
the National Conference of Lawyers and En-
vironmental Design Professions since 1981, a
member of the Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary (1973-79), and a member of the Com-
mittee on Civil Rights and Racial Unrest (1962-64).
Wise was elected a fellow of the American Col-
lege of Trial Lawyers in 1968 and was president
of the Hinds County Bar Association in 1957-58.

1943

PAUL M. SHUFORD (See 1948.)

1944

JOHN G. Fox. (See 1949.)

1946

Marion G. HEATWOLE has retired from his posi-
tion as general counsel for the U.S. Steel Corp.

1948

PAUL M. SHUFoRD was recently elected by fellow
lawyers in the 13th Judicial Circuit to the govern-
ing council of the Virginia State Bar, the ad-
ministrative agency for the Supreme Court of
Virginia. Shuford served last year as chairman of
the Virginia State Bar’s third district committee.

1949

JOHN G. Fox, formerly senior vice president of
AT&T, has joined the firm of Reasoner, Davis &
Fox in Washington, D.C.

61

Class Notes

1951

JOHN BOWEN, associate editor of The Times-
Herald in Newport News, Va., received a master
of arts degree in international studies from Old
Dominion University in Norfolk. His thesis was
entitled ‘‘The Gift of the Gods: The Impact of the
Korean War on Japan.’’ It was published as a
book by Old Dominion Graphics Consultants, Inc.

1956

JOHN K. AURELL has become a Fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawyers by invitation
of its board of regents. The college’s purposes are
to examine the standards, justice and ethics in the
profession.

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL (See 1958.)

1958

CHARLES J. CELLA of St. Louis, Mo., and Hot
Springs, Ark., has endowed the Norman P.
Knowlton Jr. Chair of Excellence at Barnes
Hospital in St. Louis to promote excellence in pa-
tient care and to honor Dr. Knowlton, an inter-
nist on the staff of the Barnes/Washington Univer-
sity School of Medicine. Income from the endow-
ment will be used to fund internal medicine
residencies at Barnes and to honor those internal
medicine residents who exemplify the highest
caliber of excellence in patient care, professional
accomplishments and clinical training.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR. (See 1960.)

J. RICHARD O’CONNELIL will be leaving Miles &
Stockbridge to form his own firm in Columbia,
Md. He will be general counsel to the KMS Group,
a Columbia development company.

FREDERICK H. TARR III, selectman for Rockport,
Mass., won the race for the Republican state
representative and was opposing the Democratic
candidate in the November elections. Tarr has been
chairman of the Rockport board of selectmen,
chairman of the economic development commit-
tee of Cape Ann, and chairman of the Rockport
planning board.

1960

JOHN M. BRADFORD, president of Mrs. Stratton’s
Salads, has been appointed to the board of direc-
tors of Southtrust Mortgage Corp.

THE RIGHT REV. PETER JAMES LEE, bishop coad-
jutor of Virginia has been awarded the honorary
degree of doctor in divinity by the Protestant
Episcopal Seminary of Virginia.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR. was awarded the Army
Meritorious Service Medal for his duty perfor-
mance as staff judge advocate, 83d U.S. Army
Reserve Command. O’Brien, a colonel in the Ar-
my JAG Reserve, has been appointed commander,
9th Military Law Center. Two W&L graduates

62

 

P. J. Lee, *60

who are in the 9th are Lt. Col. Robert E. Har-
rison, ’69L, and Maj. Richard V. Anderson, ’73L.

CHARLES C. SHERRILL has withdrawn from his
former law firm to practice on his own in Pen-
sacola, Fla.

1961

Dr. JOHN G. POWELL has received an award from
the Governor’s Overall Advisory Council on the
needs of handicapped persons for being instrumen-
tal in creating a state advocacy system for men-
tally retarded persons in residential facilities.

JAMES A. VANN III, professor of history at the
University of Michigan, has had his new book, The
Making of a State: Wurtlenberg, 1593-1793,
published by Cornell University Press. The book
is dedicated, in part, to W&L history professor
emeritus William A. Jenks. Vann has been a
visiting professor at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes
en Sciences Sociales in Paris.

1962

Dr. JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, the Paul J. Thomas
Professor of Genetics at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical School and chairman of the
department of molecular genetics, has received,
with a colleague, the V.D. Mattia Award from the
Roche Institute of Molecular Biology for their
revolutionary discovery about how cholesterol
enters cells from the bloodstream.

JAMES C. HEARON was the subject of a recent New
York Times article which described and celebrated
his hobby of distributing free books to barge
workers on the Mississippi River. Hearon lives in
Granite City, IIl.

1963

Lewis G. Nok has been named administrative vice
president and chief financial officer with respon-
sibility for tax, treasury planning, accounting and
related financial functions for Ashland Oil Co. in
Ashland, Ky.

1964

WILLIAM T. BRAITHWAITE is associate professor of
law at Loyola University of Chicago. He teaches
commercial law, torts, remedies, law and literature
and oral argument.

PETER S. TRAGER has been elected president of the
Cobb County Dental Society and treasurer of the
Northwest Dental Society. He was also appointed
by the Georgia Dental Association to chair a
special committee to study statewide delivery
systems for the state of Georgia. Trager practices
in Marietta.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GEORGE F. MADISON, a
daughter, Susan Gayle, on Nov. 14, 1983. She

J. L. Goldstein, ’62

 

G. R. Singletary, ’70

joins an older brother, Stewart, and an older sister,
Sarah.

WILLIAM P. LANCASTER received a doctor of
ministry degree from Columbia Theological
Seminary of Decatur, Ga., in May of 1984. He
is the minister of the Pickens, S.C., Presbyterian
Church.

1966

W. Court SoLorF has resigned as corporate securi-
ty director for GTE Corp. in Stamford, Conn.,
to establish W. Court Soloff and Associates, a
security consultation and private investigations
firm. With a worldwide scope of operations, his
firm specializes in executive protection, product
liability cases and crisis management response. He
lives in San Angelo, Texas.

1968

PARKER A. DENACO is recruiting in Maine law
schools this fall. His labor law business has had
him speaking before the Central Labor Law Of-
fice, the USAF at Randolph Air Force Base in San
Antonio, Texas, and the Association of Labor
Relations Agencies in Kalispell, Mont. He was ac-
tive in the Air National Guard JAG general policy
council this past year.

1969

Davip W. HARDEE was recently reported in the
Wall Street Journal to have resigned as tax counsel
to the Senate Finance Committee’s Democratic
minority to join the law firm of Akin, Gump,
Strauss, Hauer & Feld.

ALEXIS TARUMIANZ JR. is president of Retirement
Services of America, Inc., a development and
management company specializing in life care
communities, retirement centers and nursing
facilities.

1970

Dr. F. Mires LITTLE, who specializes in
neurosurgical problems in children, has been ap-
pointed assistant professor and attending physi-
cian within the department of neurological surgery
at the University of Southern California School
of Medicine. He is also on the attending staff of
the Los Angeles County-U.S.C. Medical Center,
the Kenneth J. Norris Cancer Center, the Hun-
tington Memorial Hospital and the Rancho Los |
Amigos Rehabilitation Hospital. Little resides in
metropolitan Los Angeles.

RICHARD SINGELTARY was recently elected to the
office of county judge in Lake County, Fla., and
will take office in January 1985. In a Florida Bar
poll of attorneys in the Fifth Circuit, Singeltary
was ranked second among 15 incumbent judges
and judicial candidates with an approval rating of
97 percent. He is currently serving as deputy assis-

 

  

T. N. McJunkin, ’70, ’74L

J. W. Folsom, ’73

tant state attorney and chief of felony prosecutions
in Lake County. In 1983, he was president of the
Lake County Bar Association.

THOMAS N. McJUNKIN (See 1974.)

197]

MARRIAGE: RICHARD O. KIMBALL and Louise
Skinner in Middleburg, N.Y. Chad Clasgan, ’71,
was in attendance. The couple lives in Santa Fe,
N.M.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. ANDREW J. WHITE JR.,
ason, Andrew Chandler, on Nov. 4, 1983. White
is a practicing attorney in Greenville, S.C.

1972

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Cary G. FITZHUGH, a
daughter, Catherine Palmer, on July 25, 1984.
Catherine joins two older sisters.

JOHN H. KEcK has been elected chief executive of-
ficer of the Union National Bank of Laredo,
Texas. He was elected president in 1983.

1973

MARRIAGE: Dr. JOHN CLADER and Susan Sassi,
on Aug. 25, 1984, in Cranford, N.J. Alumni at-
tending were W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, Douglas B.
Hutton, ’74, Richard M. Lobsitz, ’74, William
Sturges, ’75, and William Wallace, ’75. Also at-
~tending was W&L Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48.
Clader is a senior research chemist with Hoffmann-
LaRoche, Inc. of Nutley, N.J.

BIRTH: Dr. AND MRs. ROBERT O. BRENNAN, a
son, Thomas Elliott, on Feb. 5, 1984, in Durham,
N.C. Thomas joins an older brother, Owen
Christopher, who was born on Nov. 13, 1981, in
Durham. Brennan has joined the Medical
Associates of Lynchburg, Va. He will practice in-
ternal and infectious disease medicine. He com-
pleted a medical residency at the Johns Hopkins
Hospital, an infectious disease fellowship at the
Duke University Medical Center, and a year as
chief resident at Duke. Brennan lives in
Lynchburg.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. Scott RICKOFF, a
daughter, Dana Lauren, on Oct. 18, 1983. She
joins an older brother, Matthew.

JOHN W. Fotsom has been elected president and
chief operating officer of South Carolina Federal
Savings Bank by its board of directors. He will
also serve on the board.

E. AUSTIN MCCASKILL JR., formerly an attorney
in Little Rock, Ark., has moved his family to
Jackson, Miss., where McCaskill is attending
seminary. He and his wife, Beverly, have three
daughters.

 

MARSHALL P. WASHBURN, formerly Magnolia I
plant manager of Milliken & Company, has been
named director of development for their Magnolia
Fabric Business with offices in Milliken’s corporate
headquarters in Spartanburg, S.C.

1974

F. HARRISON Evatt is the regional sales manager
for North Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia
for Shelby Williams Industries, the leading
manufacturer of chairs for the restaurant and lodg-
ing industry.

THomMAS N. McJUNKIN has entered legal practice
with Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Farrell of
Charleston, W.Va. He will be in the administrative
and natural resources section of the firm.

BRYAN E. MCNEILL is a jesuit scholastic engaged
in a two-year regency at St. Joseph Church in the
Houston inner city. He recently traveled to
Nicaragua.

KENNETH W. Roy, a captain in the U.S. Air Force,
received an MA degree in business administration
from the University of Nebraska in May 1984. He
recently joined MENSA.

1975

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DoucLtas H. Hunt,
triplets, Austin Douglas, Megan Kimberly and
Davin Patrick on July 31, 1984, in Dallas. They
have two older sons, Taylor, 3, and Casey, 2.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Roppy J. McCAsKILL, a
son, Roddy Jones Jr., on July 10, 1984, in Little
Rock, Ark. The McCaskills now have three
children.

Dr. JESSE T. MANN has been promoted to assis-
tant professor of French at Westminster College
in New Wilmington, Pa. Mann recently taught at
the College of William and Mary and the Univer-
sity of Virginia. Last summer and fall, he studied
phonetics at the University de Paris VII.

1976

MARRIAGE: Davw S. CAYER and Karen Jenine
Boston on Aug. 18, 1984, in Annandale, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. AND Mrs. WILLARD C. THOMPSON,
a girl, Hannah Bennett, on May 27, 1984. Thomp-
son has finished his residency and has begun a
fellowship in cardiology at the Salem Veterans Ad-
ministration Medical Center and University of
Virginia Hospital. The Thompsons live in
Roanoke.

Dr. H. SPRAGUE Eustis JR. has completed his
residency at the LSU Eye Center in New Orleans.
He is now at a children’s hospital in Toronto com-
pleting a one-year fellowship in pediatric op-
thalmology. He plans to pursue an additional six
months of study at the Children’s Hospital in

Washington, D.C.

RICHARD F. MACDowELL Jr., formerly of the
Fairfax County Commonwealth Attorney’s Office,
is currently associated with the law firm of Con-
nor & Duff of Fairfax, Va.

STEVEN K. ROBERTS recently had a show, with
another artist, entitled Neo Deco, in the Foxhall
Gallery of Washington, D.C. In addition, Robert’s
work was included in an exhibit in W&L’s duPont
Gallery in October.

1977

MARRIAGE: CHARLES M. WILLIAMS JR. and
Kathleen Price on Aug. 12, 1984. The couple will
live in Nashville, Tenn., where Charles is a
musician.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. H. DENNY GAULTNEY, a
daughter, Elizabethine Bacon, on July 21, 1984,
in Atlanta. Gaultney has been elected president and
chairman of the board of Skinners’ Dairy, Inc. of
Jacksonville, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. JAMES H. WEBSTER, a son,
Benjamin James, on July 26, 1984. Webster has
just been made a partner in the law firm of
Springer and Perry in Pittsburgh, Pa.

BARRY O. BARLOw is now president of Chase
Barlow Lumber Co., which is based in Louisville,
Ky. The company supplies building materials and
manufactures wall panels and trusses.

Bruce E. BRENNAN is working as an attorney for
the City of Washington and enjoying life on
Capitol Hill with his wife, Louise, and daughters,
Kathleen, 6, and Beth, 3.

WILLIAM E. CRAVER III has moved to Charleston,
S.C., where he has formed a new law firm with
Neil Robinson, Robinson & Craver, P.A.

ROBERT A. ForRD has become an associate in the
law firm of Falk, Carruthers & Roth, P.A., in
Greensboro, N.C. He joins Charles E. Roth, ’37,
Herbert S. Falk Jr., °53, and Kenneth M. Greene,
67.

CARLTON M. HENSON II has moved with his wife
and two children to Atlanta and is now with the
firm of Peterson, Young, Self and Asselin. He is
practicing construction litigation.

EARL W. STRADTMAN Jr. is chief resident in

obstetric-gynecology at the University of Alabama-
Birmingham Hospital.

WUBBO 7. TEMPEL graduated in September from
the University of Wageningen in the Netherlands.
He lives in Rotterdam and has recently become a

journalist at NRC Handelsblad, the leading Dutch
evening newspaper.

63

   

J. L. Bruch III, ’78

1978

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. MaArK L. DICKEN, a
daughter, Mary Rebekah Ward, on July 13, 1984.
Dicken is a partner in the law firm of Yarling,
Robinson, Hammel & Lamb in Indianapolis, Ind.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs... T. MARK DUNCAN, a son,
David James, on Dec. 20, 1983, in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRS. THEODORE W. Hissey III,
a son, Theodore IV, on March 18, 1984. Hissey
works as a marketing manager for Pepsi Cola in
Purchase, N.Y. He and his family live in Harrison,
N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. CLAY KINGSBERY, a son,
Paul Curran, on Oct. 19, 1984, in Little Silver,
N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. A. JOHN May III, a son,
Andrew, on Oct. 10, 1984, in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

Mark E. BENNETT graduated from New York
University law school with a masters in corporate
law in May 1984. He is a staff attorney in the en-
forcement division of the New York regional of-
fice of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.

JOHN L. BRUCH, assistant vice president in First
Union Bank’s world banking group, will manage
the bank’s new loan production office in
Baltimore, Md.

JOHN H. FOLLANSBEE III has been named a bank-
ing officer in the private banking division of
Equibank’s executive and professional services
department in Pittsburgh, Pa. He has been a loan
documentation specialist with the bank since 1982.

ROBERT H. JACKSON is completing his third year
of residency in internal medicine at Louisiana State
University hospital in Shreveport.

DouGLas E. JOHNSTON is working as a vice presi-
dent at First City National Bank of Houston. He
is responsible for accounts in southern California.
In the summer of 1983 Johnston was part of the
gold medalist crew in world 5.5 meter yachting
championship in Hanko Norway. He has been
elected president of the St. John’s School
(Houston) alumni board of directors.

F. RAYMOND McINTyReE has been appointed to
assistant vice president in the First National Bank
of Atlanta’s international division.

1979

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. KENNETH W. SLEDD JR.,
a son, Andrew Kenneth, on Feb. 28, 1984, in Rich-
mond, Va. Sledd has recently accepted the posi-
tion of operations officer with National Card Con-
trol, Inc. of Richmond.

Epwarp M. ADLER has received a medical degree

64

  

J. H. Follansbee III, ’78  F. R. McIntyre, ’78

  

:

from the University of Medicine and Dentistry of
the New Jersey Medical School in Newark. While
in medical school, Adler was a teaching assistant
in gross anatomy, a recipient of Van Houten and
C. R. Bergman scholarships, and earned honors
in surgery, orthopedics and neurology. He plans
to do his residency in Newark.

Douc.tas M. JACKSON is a senior account executive
with The Orsborn Group Public Relations, Inc.
in San Francisco.

WILLIAM N. ROPER is a maintenance engineer with
Polinger Co. in Silver Spring, Md. Polinger Co.
owns and manages rental property.

1980

MARRIAGE: ANDREW D. KING and Tami
Lawson on June 9, 1984, in Atlanta, Ga. King is
a psychology graduate student at Georgia State
University.

MARRIAGE: Davip E. Meyers and Sandy
Evans, on Sept. 24, 1983. Meyers is sales director
for Eastern Software Distributors in Baltimore.
He is also pursuing an MBA degree at Loyola Col-
lege in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: Hucu L. Rosinson II and Margaret
L. Dearden, on Aug. 4, 1984, in Baltimore, Md.
William H. Matthai Jr., ’80, was best man and
Arthur P. Caltrider Jr., ’80, and Marc W. Ot-
tinger, ’80, were ushers. In attendance were David
E. Meyers, ’80, and Wade Gowl, ’73. Until recent-
ly, Robinson was a branch officer with the Cen-
tral Maryland Region of the First National Bank
of Maryland. Now, under the auspices of First
Maryland Credit Corp., a sister of First National,
he will be responsible for a new retail loan pro-
duction office in Tyson’s Corner, Va.

Scott G. McLao is ‘vorking in Chicago as a sales
representative for Fieldcrest Mills, Inc.

1981]

MARRIAGE: Pui.ie D. CALDERONE and Anne
Dwyer on Aug. 18, 1984, in Bayside, N.Y. In at-
tendance was classmate Dan Collopy, ’81L.
Calderone is in-house counsel for the New York
Institute of Technology.

MARRIAGE: R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON and Ruth
Sydnor Knight, on May 12, 1984, in Charlotte,
N.C. Members of the wedding party included
Winston W. Burks III, ’81, Samuel H. Campbell
IV, ’81, and Jeffrey T. Powers, ’80. Other alum-
ni in attendance were Richard M. Barron, ’79,
William D. Clark, ’82, J. Peter Clements, ’79,
Peter D. Eliades, ’81, R. Marshall Merriman Jr.,
°80, Alexis V. Richards, ’81, Robert V. Sisk Jr.,
’°81, John R. Smith Jr., ’82, John R. Sult, ’81, and
James K. Vines, ’81. Gammon is an international
banking officer of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.
in Charlotte.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. Doucias L. GAKER, a
son, William Prentis, on August 28, 1984, in
Charlottesville, Va. Gaker is now a fourth-year
student at the University of Virginia Medical
School.

Douctas T. WEBB has been promoted to vice presi-
dent in charge of sales at Webb & Sons, Inc., a
Dallas color separation firm. His previous posi-
tions with the firm included production manager
and data processing/credit manager.

1982

MARRIAGE; WiutamM D. ALFANO and Mary-
Stuart Copeland on Aug. 25, 1984, in Norfolk,
Va. Thomas G. Alfano, ’81, was best man. C.
Ware Palmer, ’82, and Gerald W. Barousse, ’81,
were in attendance. Geoffrey P. Sisk, ’81, Borneo
Clark, 82, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Veasey, 82,
Frank W. Brower III, ’82, J. Thad Ellis II, ’82,

and Stephen A. Jones, ’84, also attended the
festivities.

MARRIAGE: Susan May and Rick Eckman on
Sept. 8, 1984, in Phildelphia, Pa. A. John May
III, ’78, Bradley J. Fretz, ’77, Gordon W. Stewart,
°83L, Mary M. Johnston, ’84L, and Douglas J.
Chumbley, ’82L, attended.

MARRIAGE: Tuomas Y. SAVAGE and Julia J.
Savino on Sept. 1, 1984, in Fredericksburg, Va.
Savage is an attorney in Fredericksburg.

F. ANDREW BoypD is on leave of absence from
Virginia Tech’s architectural graduate school to
work as an architectural draftsman for ITT on
McMurdo Sound in Antarctica.

RICARDO F. CASELLAS, a student at Boston Univer-
sity School of Law, took first place in the Nor-
theast regionals of the Phillip C. Jessup Interna-
tional Law Moot Court and third place in the na-
tional championships. He has been clerking for
McConnell, Valiz, Kelly, Sifre, Griggs and Ruiz.

WILLIAM T. COCKE works with SONAT in
Washington, D.C.

CRAIG J. DYE has become director of safety and
preventive maintenance for James River Limestone
Co., Inc. of Buchanan, Va.

EARL S. GREENE JR. serves as Communications
Platoon leader and assistant C and E officer for
the 2-92 Field Artillery Battalion in Giessen, West
Germany.

E. RANDALL HUDSON spent a year in Utah with
the Sunshine Mining Co. as a mine geologist and
has now moved back to Fort Worth, Texas, where
he has taken a position as a geologist for Burnett
Oil Co., Inc.

Ist. Lt. DouGtas R. LinTON III is working as a
UHF (ultra-high frequency) platoon leader for B

Company, 16th Signal Battalion, 3rd Signal Bde.
in Ft. Hood, Texas. He has additional duties as
motor officer and supply officer. Linton and his
wife, Ist. Lt. Debbie Linton, live at Ft. Hood.

THOMAS A. PIzZANo is an artillery officer attach-
ed to an infantry battalion in Mainz, West
Germany.

RICHARD C. WITHERS attends Duquesne Univer-
sity in Pittsburgh, Pa., where he is working on a
masters in psychology.

1983

TOWNSEND OAST JR. has been promoted with
Chubb Group of Insurance Companies and is now
in their Washington, D.C., office as an under-
writer in the department_of financial institutions.
He resides in McLean, Va.

DAvID P. PHIPPEN is an associate in the labor and
employment law section of Smith, Currie & Han-
cock in Atlanta, Ga.

1984

MARRIAGE: LEwis M. ALLEN JR. and Neysa R.
Angle, on June 30, 1984, in Lee Chapel. Greg
Lunsford, ’87, John Maass, ’87, and Michael
Spellman, ’85, served as groomsmen. The couple
lives in Birmingham, Ala. Allen is a paralegal with
Cabaniss, Johnston, Gardner, Dumas, and
O’Neal.

MARRIAGE: Mark D. Kipp and Anne Carlisle
Bourne on Aug. 4, 1984, on the Hollins College
campus. He works for Ferguson, Natt, Ahern &
Agee, P.C. The couple will make their home in
Salem.

JAMES W. C. CANupP is an attorney with Bowen,
Smoot and Laughlin on Hilton Head Island, S.C.

JOHN L. CARPENTER is an attorney with Bernstein,
Shur, Sawyer and Nelson in Portland, Maine.

ROBERT B. CAVE works for The Hecht Co. in
Washington, D.C., in the retail-executive manage-
ment department.

JOHN M. CLEGHORN is reporting for The Charlotte
Observer. He lives in Statesville, N.C. THomas G.
Connors teaches at the Mt. St. Michael Academy
in the Bronx, N.Y.

ELuis B. Drew III is a law clerk for G. Ross
Anderson Jr., U.S. District Judge in Anderson,
S.C.

ANDREA L. FULTON is a law secretary for Judge
Nicholas G. Mandak of Passiac County in Pater-
son, N.J.

LAURA G. GOCKEL is an attorney with Taylor,
Hazen, Kauffman, Lipscomb and Smith in Rich-
mond, Va.

JEFFREY B. GwyNNn is a calvary officer in the U.S.
Army and will be stationed in West Germany.

Lisa B. Hack is an attorney with Taylor and
Zunka in Charlottesville, Va.

Davip J. HANSEN is an attorney with Alston and
Bird in Atlanta.

DAvip R. HERR JR. is a second lieutenant in the
U.S. Marine Corps.

ROBERT E. Hornik JR. is an attorney with O’Hara,
Felice and Crough in Syracuse, N.Y.

WILLIAM K. JHRIG is an attorney with Anderson,
Thorn, Grose and Quesada in Tampa, Fla.

Davip C. JUDGE is a banker with Chase Manhat-
tan in New York City.

KEITH T. KADESKY attends the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical School in Dallas.

MICHAEL F. KILLEA attends Georgetown Univer-
sity Law Center.

GLENN L. KIRSCHNER attends the New England
School of Law in Boston, Mass.

JEFFREY W. KNApP is a bank trainee with
Philadelphia National Bank in Philadelphia, Pa.

ROBERT V. LONGO is in the Army JAG Corps.

JOSEPH E. MAmo III is an investment banker with
Dean Witter Reynolds in New York City.

MARTIN E. MANASCO is a geophysicist with the
Gulf Oil Corp. in Houston, Texas.

HirAM H. Maxim II teaches German at the
Woodberry Forest School.

PATRICK H. Mooney is an auditor/accountant
with Coopers and Lybrand in New York City.

PETER M. MULLER is a sales representative with
Lotus Development Corp. in New York City.

ROBERT S. PARKER is an attorney with Adler,
Pollock and Sheehan in Providence, R.I.

LAURIE A. RACHFORD is a law clerk for The Hon.
H. Emory Widener Jr. with the U.S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Fourth Circuit in Abingdon, Va.

JOHN M. RUGGIERO is an attorney with Baker and
Hostetler in Cleveland, Ohio.

O. BENJAMIN ST. CLAIR is enrolled in the organiza-
tional psychology graduate program at the Univer-
sity of West Florida.

THOMAS B. SHEPHERD III is in Jackson, Miss.,
working with the law firm of Watkins, Ludlam

& Stennis.

LEVER F. STEWART is an attorney with King and
Spalding in Atlanta.

G. LEIGHTON STRADTMAN attends Vanderbilt
University law school.

DouGLas W. TEAGUE teaches English at the
Christchurch School in Christchurch, Va.

ANDREW TROTTER was one of 37 interns (selected
from 1,500 applicants) with the Voice of America
in Washington, D.C. He assisted with production
and editing on the daily broadcasts. The V.O.A.
is the global radio network of the United Nations
Information Agency. Trotter has also worked for
the United Nations Division of Social and
Economic Information in Geneva and for Business
International, also in Switzerland. He attends the
University of Virginia law school where he con-
centrates in international law.

TIMOTHY A. VALLIERE attends Columbia’s
Graduate School of International Affairs.

KELLY M. WRENN practices law with Small, Craig
and Werkenthin in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

PAUL C. ZIEBERT is a paralegal with Sidley and
Austin in Washington, D.C.

 

In Memoriam

 

1909

EDWARD M. STEVEs died on July 26, 1979, in
Austin, Texas. He was retired from Steves Sash
and Door Co., wholesale building material
manufacturers. Steves was a veteran of both World
Wars.

1915

Mr. Noau P. Mosgs died July 11, 1984, in Rich-
mond. He was one of the operators of Lexington
Roller Mills and was a U.S. Marine Corps flight
sergeant in World War I. Retired from Dupont,
he had also worked with Appian Mining in Reno,
Nev., and Goodyear Tires in Akron, Ohio. He was
a member of the Lexington Presbyterian Church.

1922

Dr. MAson IRA LowANnceE, a prominent Atlanta
clinical physician specializing in internal medicine
and allergies, died in Atlanta in August. He found-
ed the Lowance Clinic and taught at the Emory
University School of Medicine. A research chair
has been recently established in his name at Emory.
A veteran of the World Wars, he was a member
of the American College of Physicians, the
American Academy of Physicians, the American

65

In Memoriam

Association of Immunology, the Capital City
Club, the Piedmont Driving Club and the Nor-
thside United Methodist Church.

Tue Rev. J. LinpsAy PATTON JR. died on June
15, 1984, in San Francisco where he was honorary
Canon of Grace Cathedral. Before going to San
Francisco, Rev. Patton, who began as a missionary
in Arizona, was Rector of St. Mark’s Church in
Berkely, St. John’s in San Bernadino, and Grace
Church in Colorado Springs, Colo. He spent time
at Oxford and was a Fellow of the College of
Preachers at Washington Cathedral. He was a
member of the Rotary and Kiwanis clubs.

1924

JAMES P. BRAWNER died Aug. 7, 1984. Retired
chairman of the English department of West
Virginia University, he taught briefly at the Univer-
sity of Illinois. He had been a visiting professor
at the University of Arkansas, Eastern Michigan
University, United States Advanced Study Center
at the University of Florence, Italy, and at the Col-
lege of the City of London. Brawner published
several articles in scholarly journals and a book
on early English drama. He was a member of the
West Virginia state board on educational affairs,
a consultant with the U.S. Office of Education,
and campaign chairman for Community Chest. He
is listed in Who’s Who, Dictionary of American
Scholars, and the Blue Book of London.

1926

RUSSELL L. GoRDON died Aug. 6, 1984, in Hender-
sonville, N.C. A retired executive of the Fireman’s
Fund Insurance Co., he belonged to the vestry of
the Church of the Transfiguration (Episcopal) in
Saluda and St. Augustine Episcopal Church,
Wilmette, Ill. He was also chairman of the
Brotherhood of St. Andrew at St. John in the
Wilderness Episcopal Church. Gordon was presi-
dent of the Lake Summit Association for 10 years
and a member of the Saluda Lions Club. He was
an Army veteran of World War II.

1927

WILLIAM YATES TROTTER died Feb. 29, 1984, in

Monticello, Ark.
1928

JOHN E. Jones died on Sept. 29, 1984, in Pitts-
burgh, Pa. He had been an aide to several leading
Allegheny County officials. Before he became in-
volved in government, he was a political writer for
the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Jones began his
newspaper work after a brief duty in World War
II, when he became a war correspondent in the
Pacific. He was present when MacArthur accepted
the Japanese surrender. Later he became Harrison-
burg correspondent and then editorialist for the
Post-Gazette. Jones was one of the first officers
of the Pittsburgh chapter of the CIO American
Newspaper Guild and a member of the Pittsburgh
Press Club.

66

1930

HENRY T. Groop died on July 7, 1984, in Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla. He was the retired owner of The
Copper Pot, a gifts and imports shop on Cape
Cod.

1935

ALANSON C. BROWN Jr. died in June of 1983 in
San Antonio, Texas. He was the retired president
of Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. of St. Louis, Mo.

WILLIAM M. McDOoNnaALp died on Sept. 19, 1984,
in Memphis. He was president of McDonald Con-
struction Co. A sports enthusiast and active of-
ficial, he had coached football at the Memphis
University School for five years after college.
McDonald was past president of the Memphis
Beagle Club, involved in the West Tennessee
Sportsmans Association and past king of the Ra
Met Cotton Carnival Society. He belonged to the
Holy Communion Church.

Cary E. Patrick died recently in Hampton, Va.
Owner of a hardware business in Hampton, he was
a director of the United Virginia/Citizen Marine
Bank, a member of the Salvation Army board, a
member of the Selective Service board, and a
member of the planning committee for the Hamp-
ton Roads Coliseum. Patrick belonged to the
Hampton Baptist Church and was a Shriner
(Khedive Temple). He was an Army veteran of
World War II. He belonged to the James River
Country Club, the Hampton Yacht Club, and the
Hampton Roads German Club.

WILLIAM A. WILSON Sr. died on Sept. 18, 1984,
in Greensburg, Pa. He was a Navy veteran and
a retired lab technician for U.S. Steel. He was an
elder in the Westminster Presbyterian Church.

1936

Dr. GeorGE M. B. HAw ey II died on July 14 in
Red Wing, Texas. A specialist in internal medicine,
he took his degree from The Johns Hopkins
Medical School and completed residency at Strong
Memorial Hospital in Rochester, N.Y. He was a
lieutenant commander with the U.S. Navy Medical
Corps after which he interned at Parkland
Memorial Hospital in Dallas. Since then he has
been associated with the Medical Block Clinic and
the Interstate Medical Center respectively, both of
Red Wing. A fellow of the American College of
Physicians, chief of staff at St. Johns Hospital,
city health officer, and member of the Minnesota
Board of the Experiment in International Living,
Hawley published numerous articles in medical
journals. He belonged to the Red Wing Country
Club and was commander of the Red Wing Cruiser
Club. He was also junior warden of Christ
Episcopal Church in Red Wing.

1937

HERBERT BALTUCH died in September of 1983 in

Hialeah, Fla. A U.S. Army veteran, he was presi-
dent of the Pineapple Beach Club on St. Thomas,
Virgin Islands.

1938

Curtis S. Crowe died Sept. 27, 1984, in Niceville,
Fla. He was past president of Consolidated
Freightways Corp. and of Tucker Freight Lines.
A former officer in the American Trucking
Association, he was a member of St. Paul’s
Lutheran Church of Niceville and a charter
member of the Blue Ray Country Club.

1949

MICHAEL B. BoypDA died on July 16, 1984, in
Overland Park, Kan. Boyda, who formerly played
football with the New York Bulldogs, was retired
from the Fireman’s Fund American Insurance Co.
A highly decorated veteran, he was a member of
the V.F.W. and the American Legion. He was also
active in the Knights of Columbus and the Holy
Trinity Catholic Church of Leneta, Kan.

1950

JULIAN KNox MorrISON Jr., director of the news
and liaison division of the Veterans Administra-
tion, died on Sept. 2 in Fairfax, Va. A speech
writer for the head of the VA, he also wrote
presidential statements on veterans affairs and
worked on the White House news summary desk.
Before going to work in the administration, Mor-
rison had been with the North Carolina Daily News
in Greensboro, The Northern Virginia Sun, and
Washington Daily News.

1962

LYLE ARTHUR LUTCKEN died on Sept. 24, 1984,
in Florence, S.C. He was a special agent with the
FBI for 21 years and received commendations
from three FBI directors. A Dixie Youth Baseball
coach in Florence, he belonged to the Calvary Bap-
tist Church.

1975

DONALD A. WILLIS died on Oct. 11, 1984, in Rich-
mond, Va. He was an administrative law hearing
officer for the Commonwealth of Virginia and a
captain in the Army Reserve. Very active in civic
affairs, he was on the board of directors and past
president of the Richmond Urban League, the
board of directors of Leadership Metro, Family
Children Service of Richmond, the Henrico Coun-
ty branch of the NAACP, the Henrico County
Civic League, and the Henrico County Democratic
Committee. He belonged to Shiloh Baptist Church
in Chesterfield County.

1981

Davip J. McGarry died on July 21, 1984, after
a long illness. He had just returned from two years
of teaching English in Japan.

 

 

 

Nominate a Candidate for a Distinguished Alumnus Award

Your Alumni Association is now receiving Alumni Board of Directors screens the nominations
nominations for candidates for Distinguished Alum- and the Board as a whole makes the final selec-
nus Awards. The awards recognize recipients for ex- tions—not more than three a year. The 1985 awards
traordinary achievement in their personal and voca- will be presented at the Alumni Association’s Annual
tional lives. Among the qualities considered are Meeting on May 11, 1985, in Lee Chapel. Participate
superlative service to society, exceptional support by making a nomination, using the form below.
of and loyalty to Washington and Lee, outstanding The deadline is March 1, 1985. Mail the form to
character, notable success in a profession or Awards Committee, Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
business, and singular contributions in worthy en- Lexington, VA 24450.

deavors. A selection committee appointed by the

NOMINATION FORM FOR THE DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AWARD

NOTE: Be sure the nominee: (1) Has been out at least 10 years—his class must be ’74 or earlier; (2) Has not received an Honorary Degree
from Washington and Lee University; (3) Is not an employee of the University in any capacity; (4) Is not a member of the University Board
of Trustees or the Alumni Board of Directors.

(19 thru19 ~~)

Print Class and years of attendance

POGr@SS: 4... 5c sei PA th Wee ek eS ede 8 win bee clg-oue esa @idlel ockudl pW ie 6) DUMMIN: | CUIAIRING nS na

Current business ‘or professional affiliation 2...0...0..00 00000 ee SO ed ee

Wiis arkt ls k ead base rece) « 0c ss dilate Jotul omit sercesch saceaweerd « Retired ?, .. «wndiddiedtl eee aos
Yes or No

Service to W&L (class agent, alumni activity, student recruitment and referrals, loyalty). Sponsor’s assessment

of nominee’s service to Alma Mater’...............0.0..0. 0000000 OU. OS a eee

a 2 a le eee ee ee eel klkhlc hl ml lll hl tml hl tml hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl hl tlk kh we we wm mm enero =) 8 © © © s «© = © «8 «@

Please attach any additional data and your assessment of the nominee (Please be brief and limit to one page).

Recommended by: .2............... cle a OREO ls...

Address ore oe ———.... |

 

 

 

 

67

 

And furthermore... .

Letters to the Editor

EDITOR:

The Board of Trustees’ decision to ad-
mit women was both morally correct and in
the best interests of the University. I applaud
it. 1am confident that the silent majority of
Washington and Lee alumni join me.

SAMUEL D. HINKLE IV, ’69
San Francisco

EDITOR:

It was 1958. In the company of my
father, I visited W&L, along with UVa,
Sewanee, and VMI, in an effort to decide
where to go to college. My feelings for the
University are grounded in my first sight of
the Colonnade. From that first moment the
decision was out of our hands—the grip of
history and tradition held us fast. We had
to be part of it—each in our own way.

The University molded my life in many
ways. W&L, after all, is not just about
academics—it is about moral character. It is
about an Honor System which is not enforc-
ed against men, but embedded in their lives.

I fear for the traditions of the Universi-
ty when women are admitted. I believe that
the camaraderie among women—the bond
between women as women—is stronger and
older than any other code or standard. What
things which are great will suffer at its ex-
pense? Much, I fear.

Washington and Lee was a great school.

RICHARD GORDON HOLLADAY JR., ’63
Memphis, Tenn.

EDITOR:

I would like to comment on our new
coeducational policy. Quite often it is easier
and more pleasant to accept the status quo
than to face the problems of the times. In
the field of higher education the problems
arising from mass education have led to a
lowering of the quality of the education
itself. With a seven-mile radius of where I
have lived for the past 31 years there are now
five colleges where formerly there was one.
It is a noble reflection on the political and
economic systems of our country which
allows so many to take advantage of a col-
lege level education.

Unfortunately, the end product of a
system which allows most anyone to enter,

68

to be promoted without having improved his
mind, and finally to be given a degree
without once having his intellectual curiosi-
ty whetted leads to a mediocrity that I can-
not approve of. I am appalled not by the
form letter vocabulary of today’s students
but by their inability to express themselves
with any other words.

To me, the essence of a liberal education
is the development of an intellectual curiosi-
ty. It makes life an adventure. It is a con-
stant, fascinating companion, always enter-
taining and faithful.

So what is the purpose of all this ram-
bling? It is simply the quality of that intangi-
ble Washington and Lee education, that end-
result of four years of close association with
stimulating and interested’ teachers, the
Honor System, the aura of what I think of
as the General Lee mystique and the relaxed
atmosphere whether one was in Doc’s Cor-
ner Store or at the University Book Store
browsing through the latest offerings.

Of all the arguments presented, both pro
and con, I think that the Trustees have focus-
ed on those which most closely define the
Washington and Lee experience, namely the
quality of its education and its 235 years of
proud heritage, and have concluded that they
are in danger of being lost to the future
generations of students.

I am proud that they had the foresight
to see the problem, the courage to accept the
challenge, and the wisdom to act in a man-
ner that adds hope to the future.

Our motto, ‘‘Not unmindful of the
future,’’ would be a fitting title to the Board
of Trustees’ report for its minutes.

RUDOLPH J. STUZMANN, ’55
Port Washington, N.Y.

EDITOR:

The shock of the [University’s] decision
to go coed was something I had really felt
would hamper my affections for Washington
and Lee. Although I was never as militant
as some students who threatened to withhold
their ‘‘millions’’ (indeed I am neither that
confident nor that tight), nonetheless I was
quite disappointed.

In the first few days after the decision,
I could be found moping around hopelessly

1749 WASHINGTON a»oLEE UNIVERSITY 1949
~— = ° a .

 

wZwswvvweoQvwvaewewewvewea wv wv
ge" "a —

‘Tae

oe

ee Ae —_ ty

 

e422 @2 24224 24.4 2.42.8 2 @ 4 24 2.4 2.44

reassuring myself that at least my heritage
was intact, and that maybe, just maybe,
there was some mistake. Once it became evi-
dent that all my ‘‘just maybes’’ were in vain,
I resigned myself, however, reluctantly, to
the fact that Washington and Lee as I knew
it had somehow ceased to be. This made me
angry, and somehow I took little solace in
the fact that we had held out longer than the
Democratic Party.

Gradually, as often happens, my anger
gave way to melancholy, which in turn gave
way to introspection. What I slowly began
to perceive was that this needn’t mark the
end of my association with Washington and
Lee, but instead the beginning of another
one—one predicated on the kind of rational,
intelligent thought that a Washington and
Lee education is designed to foster. I began
to realize that in the ‘‘freedom’’ of the ‘‘real
world,’’ I am forever tempered by, and
reminded of, the valuable lessons of
Washington and Lee. Like the effortless dan-
cing of a kite, or the gentle sway of the fur-
thest branch on the furthest limb, I am in-
exorably linked to a source from which I can
take vitality and strength. This source, I find,
is Washington and Lee, and feelings of
remorse, regret, or anger over the decision
to go coed are absolutely incongruous with
the pride I take in having attended there.

Horace Greely one said: ‘‘Truth is one
forever absolute, but opinion is truth filtered
through the moods, the blood, the disposi-
tion of the spectator.’’

Reflecting upon this I can see my
mistake. My mistake was not so much in the
opinion that I took, and incidentally still
hold, but rather in letting that opinion over-
ride the truth. The truth is that taken as a
whole Washington and Lee is far too fine a
group of ideas to be shunted merely for the
sake of one opinion. Now secure in this
myself, I can only hope that other alumni
with similar misgivings can bring themselves
to see the forest as well, and look beyond the
trees of bitter disappointment that often
block the path to rational judgment. For my
part at least, I can assure you now that I am
not unmindful of the future.

DAvID SHORT, ’84
Williamsburg, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1985 Class Reunions

May i 4 Opens

Academic and Law Classes: 1935, 1940, 10854 1050, 1055, 1060, 1005,

1970, 1975, 1980
(Tlote: All ated 100MS aie reserved by the Alumni Associa-

tion. Members of Reunion classes will receive reservation infor-
mation by mail. in March.)

The Alumni Magazine of

Second Class Postage Paid
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY _ At Lexington, Virginia 24450
(USPS 667-040) | And Additional Mailing Offices

Lexington, Virginia 24450

043105

©

Ralfour

211 Ralston Rd.
23229

, a
VA

anie

5
Richmond,

MT «

 

 

 

 

aia

