 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 58, Number |, January 1983

William C. Washburn, ’40 ..................cccceccceeeeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ............. cece cece ee Associate Editor
Robert Fure ..................ccccceeceeeeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter 2.0.2.0... ccc ccc ccc ccc eee eee eee eens Editorial Assistant
Patricia B. Hale ..........0.. cece eee eee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73 ................ pegvbhapenses Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wilson Assumes Presidency ...............0.0ceceseceeee. 1
President Wilson’s ODK Remarks ...................0.. 4
Moving Day for Bob Huntley .......................0000. z
Founders’ Day-ODK Convocation ....................6. 9
Wizards of OZ ....... 0. cece cece ececceceaceceeeucescuceeeucs 11
WSL Gazette 2.0.0... cccccccceecueeeeeeeeeeees 17
What It Is Is Phootball ........000 0000 ccc ee cece eeeeeeeeees 26
Fall Sports Roundup ................c.c.ccecececeeeeeeeeees pe
Chapter NewS ......0. 0. 0cescececceveseses su tksto len ee 29
Class NOtes ......05.cccssteeesssteasevip ee 31
In Memoriam .......5.0sc.ccccseveneces eee 39

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL Lapp III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. Latture, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OweEN H. Harper, ’59, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 756, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM McCLinTOockx III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NorMAN Jr., 56, Crossett, Ark.
RIcE M. TILLey Jr., °58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TuRK, ’52, Wilmington, Del.

CV

v

ON THE COVER: Dr. John D. Wilson (right), Washing-
ton and Lee’s 21st president, is accompanied by his prede-
cessor Robert E. R. Huntley as he enters Washington
Hall to take the oath of office on January 17. W&L pho-
tographer W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, followed the two men
on their walk from the Lee House down the historic
Colonnade. For another view, see the back cover.

 

 

 

 

by Jeffery Hanna

Changing of the Guard

From Locked Doors to Unknown Fans, Wilson’s First Days Are An Unqualified Success

 

From the moment he accepted the Board of Trustees’ invitation
to become Washington and Lee’s 21st president, Dr. John D.
Wilson knew full well he had a most difficult act to follow.

Even so, Wilson had to be wondering what he had gotten
himself into after his first 24 hours in residence on the W&L
campus.

Elected in September to succeed Robert E. R. Huntley, Wilson
arrived in Lexington on a blustery Sunday afternoon in mid-January
only to be informed that (1) the University telephone system had
gone on the fritz, (2) a high voltage underground cable had shorted
out and left most of the campus without electricity, and (3) the
University’s computers had been shut down when the
environmental control unit suddenly and mysteriously decided the
computer center environment wasn’t up to snuff.

In short, Wilson’s entrance was not exactly accompanied by
balloons and brass bands.

And that was only the beginning.

On Monday morning, even the Lee House turned against its new
occupant. Wilson, who is living alone in the Lee House until his
family joins him in June, was following his normal daily routine
when he set out for a pre-breakfast jog in 20-degree temperatures
and pre-dawn darkness.

Unfamiliar with jogging routes, he happened to run directly into
a formation of VMI cadets marching in the opposite direction. He
escaped unscathed from that confrontation. But when he returned

President Wilson takes the podium and is welcomed to the University by outgoing President Huntley.

 

to the Lee House to prepare for his swearing in, Wilson discovered
every door of his new home locked against him. He had
unintentionally secured one of the unfamiliar Lee House door locks
on his way out.

Undaunted, he headed across the street to the Evans Dining Hall
kitchen where he found sanctuary from the numbing cold and, more
importantly, a telephone. He summoned help—i.e., a spare key—
and was able to take his oath of office attired in clothes more
appropriate to the occasion than the James Madison University
windbreaker that he wears while jogging.

Through it all, Wilson kept his good humor intact. He even
called attention to his misadventures during introductory remarks to
his Founders’ Day address on January 19, observing wryly: ‘‘I must
conclude that this is not likely to be an easy transition. I knew Bob
Huntley would be impossible to follow, but I didn’t count upon the
spectral locking of all the Lee House doors.”’

As a footnote it should be duly recorded that even before
Wilson’s first 24 hours in Lexington, there were signs pointing
toward at least an unusual transition.

For one thing, not too many weeks after he was elected
president, Wilson was going about his duties as executive vice
president and provost at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University when, without warning, the ceiling of his office came
tumbling down around him.

And then, on the Friday before Wilson arrived in Lexington,

Changing of the Guard

 

 

Mrs. Anne Wilson (left), the new first lady of Washington and Lee, and her
predecessor, Mrs. Evelyn Huntley, are recognized at Founders’ Day.

Huntley was finishing the process of cleaning out his office when
the light bulb in the table lamp behind him popped and blinked out,
startling Huntley, a portent of things soon to come.

The falling ceiling and the failing lights and the recalcitrant Lee
House door locks did nothing to detract from the matter at hand—
a historic changing of the guard during which Huntley's successful
15-year presidency ended and Wilson began what promises to be an
equally successful tenure.

Officially, that change came at 8:28 a.m. on Monday, January
17. That was the precise moment at which Wilson, joined in his
new office by several University administrators, read the oath of
office and signed his name beneath that oath in a journal that has
been similarly signed by presidents and trustees of the University
since 1897.

Coincidentally, the first Washington and Lee president whose
name is inscribed in the journal now in use was also named
Wilson—William L. Wilson, who served as president from 1897 to
1900.

Although the oath made it official and while a formal
inauguration will be held on May 19, the traditional Founders’ Day
convocation, held on the anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s birth,
provided the opportunity for a more symbolic and public torch-
passing.

Wilson and Huntley marched side by side at the head of the

 

Wilson signs the oath of office as James W. Whitehead, secretary of the
Board of Trustees, witnesses the event.

Presidents Wilson (left) and Huntley confer moments before leading the
academic procession into Evans Dining Hall on Founders’ Day.

academic procession and sat side by side on the stage.

Then Huntley, as he had for a decade and a half, opened the
convocation and made an introduction he was plainly delighted to
be making.

‘One thing I have done a lot of is make introductions,”
Huntley told the audience that filled every nook and cranny of
Evans Dining Hall. *‘But none has given me the special delight that
this one does . . . and not just because it spells relief. Not even
mainly for that reason.”

Huntley referred briefly to the major elements of Wilson's
impressive background as a Rhodes Scholar, an Academic All-
American football player, a Shakespearean scholar, and an
extremely successful and widely acclaimed teacher and
administrator at Michigan State, the State University of New York,
Wells College (where he was president for seven years), and
Virginia Tech.

Then Huntley turned to one of his favorite themes—the guardian
angel that continues to watch over Washington and Lee.

Said Huntley: **The faculty and the board have shown their
highest wisdom in inviting [Dr. Wilson] to come to Washington and
Lee as its 21st president. And I think he has shown great wisdom in
accepting the invitation, because Washington and Lee and John
Wilson are right for each other.

‘I’ve always said that Washington and Lee has its own

Wilson examines the Centennial Exhibition on the Lee Recumbent Statue.
The exhibition officially opened on Founders’ Day.

guardian angel. You’ve heard me say that, and I really mean it. Our
history tells us that. Well, the latest proof that our angel is still on
duty is the presence here today of John D. Wilson.”’

As the new president stepped to the podium, the audience rose
and welcomed him warmly with long, enthusiastic applause,
providing the same sort of warm welcome that Wilson noted he has
received from individual members of the W&L family and the
Lexington community since September.

Wilson returned the favor, thanking ‘‘you ladies and gentlemen
of the University and of Lexington for the warmth and the generous
spirit of your welcome, and much more importantly, for your
company.”’

In the introductory remarks to his Founders’ Day speech (the
full text of which begins on page 4), Wilson noted “‘I have already
received many kindnesses in these past days and weeks, kindnesses
that I can never repay. . . . All have been caring and thoughtful,
anticipating every possible question and every possible want.

‘This has been true of everyone I have met,’’ he continued,
‘“even those I am quite sure are a small minority who wonder what
possessed the Trustees to climb up to the agrarian plateau in
Blacksburg to fetch back from that large, public research university
a new president for Washington and Lee. Perhaps it can be said to
be a curious, century-late fulfillment of General Lee’s desire to
make Washington College the land-grant university of the

 

The new president was perfectly at home in the noisy student section for the
W&L-Roanoke basketball game.

AN

Wilson became an honorary member of W&L's Unknown Fans at halftime of
the Generals’ basketball game with Roanoke.

99

Commonwealth of Virginia. But I will leave others to sort that out.

Then Wilson paid tribute to the man he is succeeding, observing
that *‘Bob Huntley has given to this institution his entire
professional career, virtually his entire adult life—and promises still
much more. He has added immeasurably to its strength and promise
and prosperity.”’ |

By the end of his first full week in office, Wilson was obviously
settling comfortably into his new surroundings. There were no more
early morning lockouts, for one thing.

But the ease with which he had made the early transition was
illustrated by an incident that occurred during Washington and
Lee’s basketball game with rival Roanoke later in his first week.

Wilson spent much of that game (a triple overtime thriller the
Generals lost) on his feet in the student section joining in the
cheering. At the half, he came to the court to present Mike Bernot,
"81, with an NCAA Scholar-Athlete Award.

When that presentation ended, Washington and Lee’s band of
Unknown Fans, a raucous group that appears at basketball games
with bags over their heads, made the new president an honorary
Unknown Fan and presented him with a bag of his own.

As Wilson obliged by placing the appropriately decorated paper
sack over his head and momentarily joining the Unknown Fans’
anonymity, one W&L student was overheard to say: **I think this
guy 1s going to be all right.”’

by John D. Wilson

President of the University

Surviving
Our
Present
Prosperity

President Wilson Stresses Progress
In Founders’ Day Convocation Address

 

Excerpts from Dr. Wilson’s remarks to the Founders’ Day-ODK
Convocation.

I do truly thank you ladies and gentlemen of the University and
of Lexington for the warmth and the generous spirit of your
welcome, and much more importantly for your company. I say that
for Anne [his wife] as well as for myself, and for Sara [his
daughter] who is here today. She managed to escape from
Blacksburg High School under the vigorous eye of the principal.
My gypsy-scholar boys—some would say more gypsy than
scholar—are away at school and not able to be here. They have
not yet had the experience of actually living here in Lexington,
though I must tell you that Sara has, she is a two-time graduate of
Coach Canfield’s summer basketball camp, and has therefore lived
in the city of Lexington more days and nights than I have at this

 

 

 

 

 

I believe «

 

 

eve leeply in the possibility of pr

 

 

—

a a “equally ae wae were neces

 

 

biology professor James Starling (left).

‘If there is one emotion, one virtue that threads its way
through the fabric of Huntley’ s person, it is humility. He seems
genuinely unimpressed by his track record of 15 years. Rather
than attributing his success to a great intellect and insight,
Huntley says the achievements of his tenure were predicated
upon devotion and hard work.’’

—Roanoke Times & World-News
December 26, 1982

In the last days of his presidency, as he crated up 15 years
worth of memories and prepared to vacate the second floor office in
Washington Hall, Washington and Lee President Robert E. R.
Huntley never stepped out of character.

The perfect illustration:

On January 3, two weeks before his presidency officially ended
and his successor, Dr. John D. Wilson, took over, Huntley was
presiding, as usual, over the regular monthly meeting of the
faculty.

As the meeting closed, biology professor James H. Starling, the
senior member of W&L’s faculty, requested the floor and offered a
resolution that praised Huntley and his presidency. (See box)

Then Starling, acting on the faculty’s behalf, presented Huntley
with a gift—a painting by the late Marion Junkin, the Junkin
painting that Huntley had specifically requested be hung on the wall
of his Washington Hall office.

Once he had removed the wrappings and discovered the painting
he had long admired, Huntley asked: ‘‘ You mean I get to keep it?’’

Yes, he gets to keep it. Happily, however, the Junkin painting
will not be leaving Lexington. Neither will Huntley.

Next fall he will return to the law school to resume the teaching
career he left in 1968 to become the 20th president of his alma
mater. His decision to return to teaching (although there was never
much of a question about it) was greeted enthusiastically.

President and Mrs. Huntley were presented a Junkin painting by the University faculty, represented by

Moving Day
For
Bob Huntley

W&L’s Outgoing President
Returns to the Law School

 

‘The entire law school faculty is delighted that President
Huntley will be joining the faculty next fall,’’ said Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr., dean of the law school. ‘‘President Huntley was
known as a superb teacher before he left to become president, and I
have no doubt our students will benefit tremendously from his
presence on the faculty.’’

Though he will be kept quite busy teaching courses on corporate
law, his law school duties will not be the only thing Huntley will be
doing now that he has retired—from the presidency, that is. He will
also be involved in a number of important projects: He is now
chairman of the board of trustees of Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond. He is a consultant to Virginia Governor Charles Robb’s
Task Force on Science and Technology and is a member of
Governor Robb’s Commission on the Future of Virginia. For the
next six months, Huntley will serve as an interim chairman of the
board of trustees of the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges.

Huntley’s move back to the law school is every bit as natural as
his move 15 years ago from the law school dean’s office in Tucker
Hall a few doors down the Colonnade to the president’s office.
There is one major difference. Rather than retracing his steps down
the Colonnade to the law school, he must now traverse Woods
Creek to his new office in Lewis Hall, the splendid law school
building that was a major element in the $67-million development
campaign he spearheaded.

Certainly that development effort, completed two weeks before
Huntley announced his decision last February to leave office, is the
most visible sign of his presidency’s success. Not that Huntley
would ever be willing to take credit for that or the myriad other
accomplishments of his presidency.

In a December interview with Huntley, Roanoke Times &
World-News Shenandoah Bureau Chief Brian Shaw posed the
obvious, but unavoidable, question: Which of his many
accomplishments as W&L’s president does Huntley consider most

7

 

 

FACULTY RESOLUTION IN PRAISE OF HUNTLEY

The faculty of Washington and Lee University praises
Robert E. R. Huntley for his firm leadership during the past
fifteen years and congratulates him on the outstanding success
of his presidency. His accomplishments are too numerous to
note here in detail, but at this final meeting at which he presides
the faculty wishes to acknowledge with gratitude certain of his
achievements.

As president he has been an eloquent spokesman for the
small, independent college and for the liberal education it is
uniquely equipped to provide. His vision of the goals which
Washington and Lee should pursue has been broad and clear,
and he has worked tirelessly to realize them. He has been as
mindful of the University’s past as of its future, achieving
progress that is consistent with tradition. Both a pragmatist and
an idealist, he has ignored neither the possible nor the utopian
and leaves office only after bringing the University to its strong-
est position in history.

To that office he brought exceptional qualities of intellect
and character. In dealing with a multitude of questions that only
he as president could resolve, he has shown the finest attributes
of a disciplined mind—incisiveness in identifying issues, judi-
ciousness in weighing alternatives, fairness and wisdom in
reaching decisions. His confidence in the future of Washington
and Lee has inspired countless others, and his resoluteness of
purpose has given the University stability and direction during
an era of unprecedented change.

He has made the University a central part of his life, and
those who live and work here his daily concern. Toward all of
them he has been cordial and open, utterly without vanity or
pretense, and genuinely and deeply interested in their welfare.
He has enjoyed an especially cordial relationship with the
faculty, whose meetings he has often brightened with his sense
of humor. He has repeatedly described the faculty as the greatest
strength of the University and has supported and encouraged it
with deeds that matched his words. He has invariably respected
its rights and privileges, and in turn it has grown increasingly to
rely on his advice and sound judgment. As president he has
remained simply himself, a warm, humane man who has de-
servedly won the affection and admiration of the entire Univer-
sity and of its alumni and friends.

For a decade and a half he and Mrs. Huntley have performed
their roles as president and first lady with grace and style. As
they now complete these roles the faculty expresses its sincere
thanks, and it wishes them, as he has wished thousands of
graduates, good luck and Godspeed.

 

 

 

important? Huntley countered with what was the obvious (for him,
at least) answer when he said: ‘‘I leave with a feeling of
accomplishment, although I don’t know if I consider it a feeling of
success. I think I was able to accomplish some good things in the
last 10 or 15 years. I don’t take credit for all of those . . . or most
of those. I’m glad to have been president of the school while they
occurred.’

Typical, too, was Huntley’s response to another of the
questions. Asked to describe the emotions he felt as he cleaned out
his desk and prepared to move out, Huntley said: ‘‘I have enjoyed
being in this job. I really have. But I don’t feel any emotional
sadness about leaving the job because I am not leaving Washington
and Lee. I doubt I’d get along well anywhere else. I’ve been here
too long.’’

As the interview with Huntley drew to a close, Huntley was

faced with the question he had been expecting:

‘“If you were required to give Dr. Wilson some parting advice
before leaving office, what would it be?”’ Huntley was asked.

Huntley laughed, then replied: ‘‘Of course, I’m not required to
do that. I don’t think I really want to do that. I really don’t have
any advice to offer. If I had any, I wouldn’t give it to him. I am
serious about that. My predecessor, Dr. Fred Cole, gave me no
advice, as much as I may have wanted it. And he was right.

‘“The reason for changing presidents is so you get new
perspectives and examine new answers to old questions. To tamper
with that process would be unwise. I don’t want to do that.”’

The response was predictable—vintage Bob Huntley. A line in
the faculty resolution, adopted unanimously by virtue of a standing
Ovation, said it best: ‘‘As president he has remained simply himself,
a warm, humane man who has deservedly won the affection and
admiration of the entire University and of its alumni and friends.”’

A POSTSCRIPT

Every time Bob Huntley was ready to pronounce the president’s
office free of his personal papers and paraphenalia, he’d discover
some new cache of office archaeology. He had cleared the
bookshelves of the massive breakfront, but there were forgotten
accumulations remaining in the lower compartments and drawers.

Some things were worth keeping, notably the agenda books for
all the Trustees’ meetings during the first decade of Huntley’s
presidency. Still of casual interest to him, this collection—because
of his handwritten notes and addenda—would be of immense
interest to a future university historian.

Truly personal memorabilia were discovered, for instance, a
letter Huntley had written his parents from South Dakota in 1948
when he worked in the wheat fields between academic years.

But much of the presidential debris held little value.
Occasionally, the old ‘‘your junk/my treasure’”’ principle applied.
University Curator Jim Whitehead rescued some keepsakes of the
W&L porcelain expedition to Taiwan in 1978. And Frank Parsons,
Huntley’s assistant whose office adjoins the president’s, erred in
behalf of posterity by letting all doubtful items overflow into his
already overflown environment.

A few hours later, in the waning moments of his last Friday
afternoon as President, Huntley sat behind an uncharacteristically
clean desk. He fretted about minor things possibly still undone to
make it easy for his successor to take over on Monday. The chair
itself had accommodated presidential seats from Dr. Gaines’ time,
and its infirmities were apparent to both the eye and other
anatomical parts. And how would John Wilson sign things? Huntley
was taking his own desk pen with him. Had arrangements been
made to vacuum, dust, and wax? A light bulb blinked out in a table
lamp, even as he talked, and would have to be replaced.

Two friends, administrative associates since Day One of the
Huntley era, tried to assure him that he shouldn’t worry about such
things. After some reminiscing, Huntley invited them to go with
him to the Lee House for a final toast ‘‘or something. ”’

Huntley carried a big brown bag of personal residue that
included the huge ashtray that filled early every day he spent in the
office over the past 15 years. He hummed a few measures of ‘You
Are My Sunshine,’’ paused in the door of the outer office, and said,
‘*Well, I suppose this is it.’’

Out on the Colonnade, en route to the Lee House, the talk went
back to a late December day in 1968 when Huntley decided he
would accept the invitation to be president. His companion recalled
how Acting President Bill Pusey had summoned him to Washington
Hall during the holiday break, and how he was not surprised at all
to learn the purpose of the summons. Nor was he surprised that Bob
Huntley was also there to begin planning the announcement.

a

 

ODK Tap Day

President Wilson, Dean Steinheimer, Three Alumni Are Inducted

Washington and Lee’s traditional
Founders’ Day was marked by a number of
significant events this year, including
Omicron Delta Kappa’s induction
ceremonies, a special ODK honor for Rupert
N. Latture, and the opening of a Centennial
Exhibition of the Lee Recumbent Statue.

Two members of the Washington and Lee
University administration—new W&L
President John D. Wilson and law dean Roy
L. Steinheimer Jr.—were inducted into ODK
along with three prominent alumni: Earle T.
Andrews, 25, of Berkeley Springs, W.Va.;
Richard D. Haynes, ’58L, of Dallas, Texas;
and, Josiah P. Rowe III, ’48, of
Fredericksburg, Va.

Wilson, who came to W&L from
Virginia Tech where he was provost and
executive vice president, is a Rhodes Scholar
who earned the bachelor’s degree in history
and the Ph.D. in English literature from
Michigan State University. He is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, the Shakespeare
Association of America, the Association of
American Rhodes Scholars, and the National
Association of State Universities and Land-
Grant Colleges. He is a member of the board
of trustees of Hollins College and is

Honorary ODK initiates: Earle T. Andrews, ’25; Josiah P. Rowe III :

chairman of the board of the Virginia
Foundation for Humanities and Public
Policy.

Steinheimer, who will retire from the law
school deanship at the conclusion of the
current academic year, has been dean of the
W&L School of Law since 1968. He came to
Washington and Lee from the University of
Michigan, where he was professor of law. A
native of Kansas who received his bachelor’s
degree from the University of Kansas and his
law degree from the University of Michigan,
Steinheimer is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
the Order of the Coif, the American Bar
Association, and the American Law Institute.

Andrews is the retired chairman of the
board of Pennsylvania Glass Sand
Corporation, the country’s leading
manufacturer of industrial silicon. He served
as president of the West Virginia Society of
Professional Engineers and as president of
the American Society of Civil Engineers. A
strong supporter of Washington and Lee and
of higher education generally, he is past
president of the West Virginia Board of
Regents and the recipient of an honorary
doctor of laws degree from West Virginia
University. He has been active in W&L

   

’48; President John D. Wilson; law dean Roy : teinheimer Jr.; and, Richard D. Haynes, ’58L.

alumni affairs, including his role as a class
agent for the Annual Fund.

Haynes is a partner in the Dallas law firm
of Haynes & Boone. He attended W&L as an
undergraduate in 1949-50 and received his
bachelor’s degree from the University of
Oklahoma in 1953. Recognized as an
authority on state and federal regulation of
securities, Haynes has been active in
Washington and Lee alumni affairs, serving
as president of the W&L Law School
Council in 1972-73 and as vice president of
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., in 1974-
75. Active in civic affairs in Dallas, Haynes
is a trustee of The Saint Michael School, a
trustee of the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts,
and a director of the Dallas Civic Opera
Company. He is president of Concerned
Citizens for the Arts.

Rowe is executive vice president and
publisher of the Fredericksburg Free Lance-
Star and general manager of radio station
WELS in Fredericksburg. He formerly served
as mayor of that city from 1964 through
1972. He is a member of the board of the
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone
Company and is president of United
Community Funds and Council of Virginia.

  

2

ODK Tap Day

He is a former president of the Virginia Press
Association.

Twenty-five W&L undergraduate and law
students were ‘‘tapped’’ by ODK. They are:

Seniors: Seng-Kah Baey of the Republic
of Singapore; Peter A. Baumgaertner of
Syosset, N.Y.; C. Dewitt Caruthers of
Shreveport, La.; Steven D. Corbeille of
Haymarket, Va.; D. Mason Ellerbe of Latta,
S.C.; Frank L. Eppes of Greenville, S.C.;
Vincent J. Fechtel HI of Leesburg, Fla.;
Stephen P. Geary of New Orleans; Daniel S.
Jones Jr. of Clinton, N.C.; Michael H. Reap
of White Plains, N. Y.; David P. Ridlon of
West Hartford, Conn.; Bennett L. Ross of
Huntington, W.Va.; Christopher D. Schram
of Peru, Ind.; Christopher S. Stokes of
Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; H. Bowen
Woodruff of Anniston, Ala.; and, Anthony
J. Zaccagnini of Ellicott City, Md.

Juniors: Christopher J. Cartmill of
Lincoln, Neb.; Joseph E. Mamo of Rocky
Mount, N.C.; Alan E. McQuiston Jr. of
Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; Jack L. O’Brien of
Boca Raton, Fla.; G. Leighton Stradtman of
Columbia, S.C.; and, Timothy A. Valliere of
Uncasville, Conn.

Law Students: Gaines H. Cleveland of

 

Gulfp ort, Miss.; Deborah H. Combs of Rupert N. Latture (left), the sole surviving founder of Omicron Delta Kappa, receives a special award from
Princeton, W.Va.; and, Pamela L. Ryan of ODK national secretary Maurice A. Clay.
Groton, N.Y.

The national executive director of ODK,
Dr. Maurice A. Clay of Lexington, Ky.,
presented Latture, the only surviving founder
of the national honor society, with an ODK
key embedded in lucite and a certificate in
recognition of Latture’s enthusiasm and
involvement in the ODK programs. The
special honor came one day after Latture
celebrated his 91st birthday.

Several hours after the Founders’ Day-
ODK convocation, ceremonies were held in
Lee Chapel to open an exhibition of
sculpture, photographs, and memorabilia in
honor of the 100th anniversary of the
unveiling of Edward V. Valentine’s famous
statue of Lee. John G. Zehmer Jr., director
of the Valentine Museum in Richmond, was
the guest speaker for the opening ceremonies
while Washington and Lee art history
professor Gerard Maurice Doyon, who
organized the exhibition, presented a slide-
lecture on the statue’s history that evening.

The Centennial Exhibition will remain on Evans Dining Hall was filled to overflowing for the Art history professor Maurice Gerard Doyon with
display in Lee Chapel through May. traditional Founders’ Day Convocation. the Centennial Exhibition he organized.

 

10

Daca

eee

 

The Wizards of Oz

W&L’s Hollywood Connection

by Robert Fure

The Wizard of Oz is Hollywood's quintessential film. Since its
opening in 1939, it has shown us brilliantly again and again why
we go to the movies. Even today, as familiar as it has become, it
still recalls in us strong, childlike feelings—terror and delight,
pity, music, and ultimately a sort of friendly enchantment. It is
‘‘somewhere over the rainbow’’ made palpable and bright.

Perhaps the most complete achievement of the Hollywood
Dream Machine, The Wizard of Oz introduced technicolor; it
beatified Judy Garland; it put Kansas on the map, a heartland; it
populated the wilderness and made a road through it. But most
importantly, the story touches, if ever so lightly, so many chords of
our private and cultural consciousness that it has effectively
resolved into myth. For 20th-century America, it has become the
Pilgrim’s Progress of our most popular medium. Each year now on
television, millions follow its heroine in quest of the Holy City and
Home.

And yet the most memorable scene in this sumptuously
panoramic fantasy is one of profound demystification. It occurs
when Dorothy and her friends are in the chamber of the Wizard,
cringing in reverential fright before his booming, flashing visage.
Toto, the dog, effects their discovery of the real wizard, a
bumbling, flustered old gentleman busy within a curtained booth
turning wheels, pulling strings, and punching buttons. It is
Hollywood confessing to its own devices. The spell dissolves, the
Wizard of Oz is a mere showman.

The scene is marvelously apt for what it tells us about ‘‘over the
rainbow’’ and those who bring it to us in living color. Wizards of

Oz are all essentially showmen; in Hollywood they are the people
behind the curtains known as producers, directors, writers, agents,
studio technicians, cinematographers, and actors. And like the
movie, they acknowledge—most of them good-naturedly—that their
business is finally mere fantasy. The best that they can offer is a
story well told and perhaps a bit of conventional wisdom.
Hollywood glamour notwithstanding, they get up in the morning to
plug away at their craft in Studio City, Beverly Hills, or Bradbury,
California. Hollywood—The Emerald City—is after all a studio,
where each day people turn wheels, pull strings, and punch
buttons.

At least six of them are W&L alumni. In each case, they arrived
in Hollywood by a circuitous route and found employment, almost
by accident, in the vast film and television industry. Here, in brief,
are their stories.

 

Part I: Three Writers

 

MICHAEL NORELL, 59

 

Michael Norell got his start as a television writer on the series
Emergency, in which he played the Captain. He had always wanted
to be an actor, and he had in fact achieved his goal—or had begun
to. The truth was that the work in this popular little series on life
and death in a big city was rather dull. ‘‘For each episode we’d
spend about three days a week shooting the story. During that time

1]

 

PROD.NO. |Wastineton € LEE

 

I’d mainly just stand around on the set. Well, I’d come home each
night and practically drop from boredom.”’

So Norell began to write. Working evenings and between takes,
he finished a novel—unpublished—and several short stories. Then,
on the Emergency set, he suggested and developed some ideas for
the series. Other screenplays followed. One thing led to another,
including a variety of key writing assignments in episodic
television. ‘‘It got to be easy—it was like stealing.’’ Then a few
feature-length screenplays, television movies, among them Sex and
the Married Woman and, lately, In Love With an Older Woman.

Now, networks are phoning him at home, so to speak. Norell is
frequently asked to develop the key scripts—the pilots—for new
television comedies. Called in to revise the original pilot for The
Love Boat, he is generally regarded at ABC as the writer who saved
the show from an early watery grave. Following the recent success
of In Love With an Older Woman, CBS has asked him to develop
two more TV movies.

All this has led to an income well into six figures, a rambling
home on a cozy four acre avocado farm at the foot of the mountains
outside L.A. in Bradbury, California, two horses, two dogs, and a
cat.

A tall, wiry, restless figure, Norell reflects on it all while
bouncing a basketball on his driveway a good distance from the
basket over the garage door: ‘‘I guess you could say I got the breaks
as a writer that I never got as an actor.’’ These are the words of a
man not entirely at home. *‘Do I like writing? I'd rather have my
teeth drilled.”’

The ball bounces off the rim. Michael Norell always wanted to
be an actor.

*k *K *

A journalism major at W&L, Norell was active in the
Troubadours, the campus theater organization, throughout his
undergraduate career. While starring in several productions, he was
the president of the organization his sophomore year and publicity
director the next. During his junior year he wrote a column for the
Ring-tum Phi. It bristled with the boisterous, wildly inventive, and
somewhat scatological humour typical of collegians.

But Norell’s articles, with their recurrent comic dialogues, also
suggested a young writer trying to translate journalism into theater.
One would find energetic promotions and reviews of plays and
movies, but then, almost in mid-paragraph, the young Norell would
give his column over to fictional characters bantering over some
item of campus idiocy. In his senior year, Norell more or less
dropped from sight, seeking perhaps a new translation. It was all
strangely prophetic.

After graduation, Norell did a hitch in the Army making
training films of GI’s enjoying life in Europe. Later he went to
work for the Richmond Times-Dispatch. **1 was known for being a
colorful writer and for being utterly useless when it came to
gathering facts. Somehow I hadn't been paying attention when
Paxton Davis gave out the ‘who, when, where, what, and why’
information.

‘*| gave that up for the stage.’’ Norell chuckles at his own
melodrama. **For seven years I bounced around regional theaters in

12

 

Michael Norell as the Captain in Emergency.

the East, in and out of New York, including Broadway where I
played in Cactus Flower. | did a lot of plays, had wonderful fun,
and ate very damn little filet mignon. In 1965, at the Barter Theater
in Abingdon, Virginia, I met my wife, the actress Liz Ingelson.
After 17 years we still haven’t murdered each other.

‘‘In 1971, we came to California.’’ After six months of
unemployment, Norell auditioned for a bit part on Emergency. The
producer and director liked him so much that they gave him a major
role. The show ran for six years, unusual longevity for a TV series,
and the residuals from re-runs are still coming in. *‘One of the great
things about the Emergency part is that never in my writing career
have I had to take a job because I needed money.”’

It’s not usually like that, claims Norell. The vast horde of
television writers are unemployed and hungry. But writing for
episodic television can be a dispiriting activity anyway. ‘‘No matter
how well you write it, it will get rewritten. A producer will just
butcher a script. In television, a writer is seen as a necessary evil.
Usually a producer or a director, even a prominent actor, will come
up with a concept; then they go out and hire a writer, in the same
way you hire a truck driver, to deliver the material.”’

Norell kicks back from the cluttered desk in his office, a vast

club house affair separate from the main house, lined with books,
photographs, and a collection of old clocks, with a huge pool
table—therapy for writer’s block—dominating the main room. He
runs his fingers through his mop of wild, graying hair, **In
television, if you are just a writer, you are paid a lot of money to be
jerked around by lintheads. In movies, you are paid a vast amount
of money to be jerked around by lintheads.”’

So why does he do it? ‘‘The great pleasure in writing is not the
money—and there’s a helluva lot of money in television and
movies—it’s the pleasure of seeing something you’ ve written done
nicely.”’

As an example, Norell recalls his work on the Love Boat pilot.
ABC was ready to begin shooting the original episode when the
producers realized that, however bright their concept, the scripts
they had commissioned were weak. Norell was called in as a
salvage expert.

‘*Well, the material was terrible. But I took the three original
scripts and interwove them. In the meantime, they went out and
hired Gavin MacCloud as the Captain, so I had to develop a major
role for him. The next day they started shooting—they didn’t have
time to screw around with my material.’’ Norell smiles. “‘It’s still
one of two or three things I’ve done that I can sit down and watch
for the sheer pleasure of seeing marvelous actors do my material as
well as it can be done.’’

The show was a hit. ‘‘It all seemed like I was in Rosemary's
Baby and had made a pact with the devil. Suddenly, my career took
off. Within a month I got several mind-boggling offers.”’

One of them was to write and produce a new show for ABC,
Aloha Paradise. **It turned out to be a flop. The scripts were ggod,
but the show suffered from poor casting. The actors didn’t like each
other—it wasn’t exactly a Love Boat situation—and, frankly, |
think the material was over their heads.’

But, wherever the heads are, Norell has kept busy weaving
fantasies for his voracious medium. “‘I have arrived at a certain
point in television where I have a little bit of clout and can fight to
preserve what I’ve written. I can be a producer now, and perhaps
some day I'll be able to direct my own scripts as well.”

Besides the two CBS movies, Norell is now working on a pilot
for Danny Thomas and Sid Caesar, a situation comedy involving
two fathers-in-law who co-own a grocery store in a changing
Chicago neighborhood. If it is picked up by the networks, Norell
will be executive producer and creator. “‘I’d like to have a good
half hour sit-com, a television comedy of substance where every
week you're putting on a play.”

Norell stares at his Adidas and dreams a little, fingering for a
cigarette. “". . . If you’ve got something to write about, then it’s
easy. Every scene must in some way advance the tension. The
characters must be impelled to talk.

**. |. Pd also like to be a Broadway director and playwright.
And I'd like to get back to acting on the stage. Way down on the
list, along with taking out the garbage, is writing for television.”’

He looks around, gesturing. **Ten years ago all of this may have
seemed an absurd pipe dream. Well, I like to think that I can still
toss my guitar in the back seat of my car and leave.”’

For what. who knows? He seems to travel by balloon.

 

Wizards of Oz

 

JEB ROSEBROOK, 757

 

The scene is the Simi Valley of California, about 30 miles south
of L.A. Out beyond a well-groomed, anonymous subdivision on a
broad stretch of ranch land that rolls up to the Sierra foothills, a
television production crew is busy filming the final few scenes of an
ABC ‘‘novel for television,’’ The Mystic Warrior. Based on the
best-selling novel Hanta Yo by Ruth Beebe Hill*, the story calls for
a setting reminiscent of the vast plains of the Sioux Indian nation,
circa 1805. Here, abutting the late 20th century, they have found
virgin America. In California, it is a matter of camera angle.

Over the casual throng of actors, extras, and production
personnel, a thin, amplified voice cries out, ‘“Quiet please! Ready?
Rolling.’’ All eyes turn toward the crest of a distant hill. First one,
then another, then a long line of brightly painted Sioux Indians ride
slowly into view. They wind their way down through the smoking
ruins of a trading post. The lead Indian halts and gazes intently at
the bloodied, prone figure of the dead proprietor. Suddenly, his
horse bridles and rears out of control. The proprietor covers his
head. *‘Cut!’’ shouts the director.

True Indians were better horsemen. Jeb Rosebrook smiles.
‘‘They’re shooting about two or three minutes of the story. If they
can get this scene down on film in the next couple of hours, it will
be fast work.’’

The project has occupied Rosebrook’s attention since 1980,
when ABC first came to him with Hill’s historical novel. Originally
planned for nine hours over three days, the air time has been cut by
the caprices of the medium to five hours over two days. Through
the many rewrites, Rosebrook has kept the elusive presence of the
Mystic Warrior clearly in mind. Fidelity to Hill’s exhaustively
researched chronicle of early 19th-century Indian life is of utmost
importance to him. It is a compelling opportunity to tell the public
the truth about an imperfectly understood subject.

‘*T feel that the writing I do for television is . . . well,
important.’’ Normally softspoken and retiring, Rosebrook is
uncomfortable making such pronouncements. But, pressed on the
subject, he shrugs, ‘“There isn’t any other way you can reach
between 20-40 million people at one sitting. I judge that as a
responsibility.”’

But now in its filming, The Mystic Warrior is out of his hands.
The project has become fully the producer’s and director’s
responsibility. Rosebrook occasionally visits the various locations
of the filming. He stands out of the way, his hands in his pockets.
Various personnel spot him and sidle up beside him. He is the
writer, after all, the conceiver. To a significant degree, they now
make what he first made in his mind. They wonder if they have it
right.

* * *

Jeb Rosebrook has achieved a measure of distinction as a writer
for television and the screen. At least, he has kept—or has been
kept—busy. His major work has been in television specials. He

 

*Ruth Beebe Hill is the widow of the late A. Burroughs Reid Hill, W&L, °31.
t3

 

SCENE | TAKE

 

adapted The Miracle on 34th Street, directed by W&L alumnus
Fielder Cook, in 1974; his J Will Fight No More Forever, the story
of Chief Joseph, was nominated for an Emmy in 1975; The Prince
of Central Park, a CBS special in 1977, was nominated for a
Writer’s Guild of America award; in 1978, he co-wrote Wings of
Kitty Hawk for NBC.

Framing those projects have been two movies, Junior Bonner
(1971) and Walt Disney’s The Black Hole (1979). Not a writer to
be type-cast by subject matter, Rosebrook turned from outer space
to The Mystic Warrior and the American frontier soon thereafter.
He has worked over two years on five hours of television: one
makes certain allowances of time for an audience of 40 million.

Rosebrook got his start in television developing scripts for The
Virginian, a western series that aired during the late 1960’s. But his
first work for the medium actually began while he was still an
undergraduate at W&L. In the summer between his junior and
senior years, Rosebrook enrolled in the NBC Writer Development
Program in New York City. He spent several weeks learning about
the writing of television plays. Then, during his senior year, NBC
paid him $50 a month to continue developing his craft.

Unfortunately, shortly before his graduation NBC suspended the
program, so Rosebrook’s apprenticeship came to an abrupt end.
After leaving W&L, he sought work in New York as a journalist.
He landed a job of sorts with King Features Syndicate, working in
the promotion and sale of comic strips to newspapers. (Asthmatic as
a boy, Rosebrook had done his very first writing drawing comic
strips in his sickbed. When it comes to making a living, one
occasionally falls into sweet ironies.)

A year later Rosebrook was drafted by the Army and then,
because of his asthma, was rejected. His mother died that same
summer. Seeking a change, Rosebrook migrated to Phoenix, where
he had spent many summers as a youth because of his condition. He
entered retail advertising, a good job this time, got married and
bought a house. He also did a little work on the side as publicity
manager for the late Zoro Foley, who at the time was the #1
heavyweight boxing contender.

In 1961, Rosebrook moved again, this time to Los Angeles,
where he went to work for the giant Foote, Cone, and Belding
Advertising Agency. In 1962, he began writing again, at night. By
1965 he had produced his first novel, Saturday, published by E. P.
Dutton. The blurb describes it as about ‘‘a small town in Virginia
that does its living, loving, and dying on the sixth day of the
week.’’

People at Foote, Cone, and Belding began to get a little
nervous, wondering if Rosebrook was really happy in advertising.
Though he did not consider fiction and advertising necessarily
mutually exclusive enterprises, Rosebrook left the firm in 1967,
intent on his first love. He became a free lance writer, got an agent,
wrote several short stories, and did some journalism. ‘‘It was pretty
much a disaster.’’

But by 1969 Rosebrook had found work in television, writing
for The Virginian. During the summer of 1970, he happened by the
Frontier Days Rodeo in Prescott, Arizona. He had participated in
junior rodeos as a boy in Arizona—the trip was at least partly

14

 

Jeb Rosebrook at work: writing is largely a matter of discipline.

nostalgic. But there in the stands and back by the corrals,
Rosebrook got the genesis of a character for a new story, Junior
Bonner. Meanwhile back in Los Angeles, Rosebrook’s agent
received a phone call from Robert Redford, who was looking for a
rodeo story for his next film.

As it turned out, Redford did not do the rodeo movie, but Joe
Wizan, who had produced Redford’s Jeremiah Johnson, purchased
an option on Rosebrook’s story. ““This gave me the time and money
to write the screenplay. So a year after the Frontier Days Rodeo I
was back in Prescott making a movie. We got Steve McQueen to
play Bonner. The movie was not a box office hit, but it was a
critical success.’’ Rosebrook’s career as a writer was now secure.

* * *

Today Rosebrook has two offices, one at Warner Brothers

Studios and the other in a little building owned by Danny Thomas in

Studio City. He does his writing at the latter—in a tiny, drab room
with the typewriter he had in college. Upstairs are offices for Eric
Estrada of Chips, Bobby Vinton’s manager, and Earl Hamner.
Hamner, a longtime friend, is the creator of The Waltons, for which
Rosebrook wrote four scripts, one earning him another nomination
for the Writer’s Guild award. Hamner is the “‘John Boy”’ of the
Waltons who grew up to become a writer. One can imagine oneself
outside the little office building at 5 p.m. when Rosebrook is
putting the cover on his typewriter. Through an upstairs window
one hears, “‘Goodnight, Jeb.’’

Rosebrook goes home to his wife of 22 years, to his two
teenage children, and the same house he bought 20 years ago. He is
a man of routines, and a creative writer who keeps to strict
discipline. ‘‘I put in a 9 to 5 day—I need to. I work slowly. If I can
get five good pages, it’s a good day. Two hours of television will
take eight weeks, but then there are rewrites. I always meet my
deadlines.”’

Again, the practice began at W&L. “‘I was blessed with good
teachers, Paxton Davis and Tom Riegel in journalism, Marshall
Fishwick in American studies, and the late George Foster in
English. I’ve kept in touch with these people over the years. In
school everyone is fortunate in that there is always somebody who
will pay attention. At W&L I had several professors who were very
helpful in reading what I had written.’’

On whether they taught him how to be a writer, Rosebrook
muses for a moment. “‘I don’t think that you can train a person to
be a writer. You can teach him the craft, but writing is essentially
intuitive—it’s like being a ballplayer and knowing how to hit a
curveball.’’

Rosebrook pauses over the quaintness of the analogy; his
generation shared more universally, perhaps, the concern over
curveballs. And so forth: ‘‘When I was in school, people wanted to
write The Great American Novel. Now they want to write The
Great American Movie.”’

Rosebrook may do it, or may write one of them. But for now
his newest project as writer-producer for Warner Brothers is a pilot
for a new TV series. Following that, he may devote himself more
fully to a movie for television based on the war years of Robert E.
Lee, a project he has contemplated since 1977. It would be a
screenplay that bears some relation to his own past, as many of his
stories do.

Or he may look homeward to another recollection of his youth.
‘‘When I was a freshman at W&L I had 28 consecutive blind dates.
What are there, 32 weeks in a school year? That’s a pretty good
record. My last blind date was with a girl from Southern Sem
named Ginger Peters. She needed a ride to the Charlottesville
railroad station. [Rosebrook’s parents lived in Charlottesville at the
time.] Well, I was leaving at noon but her train didn’t leave until 7
p.m. We had a great time.”’

Rosebrook puts his hands in his back pockets, like a rodeo
cowboy. ‘‘I never saw her again. I often wonder, what in the world
ever happened to Ginger Peters? She was from Mississippi.”’
Rosebrook rubs the back of his neck. ‘“‘She probably has five kids.’’

‘*Rolling’’—the cinematic imagination begins to turn.

 

Wizards of Oz

 

RICHARD SALE, 734

 

The author of 37 screenplays, 14 novels, and the director of 23
movies, Richard Sale has been there. Now 71, he lives with his
third wife, a fashion designer, in a small condominium in Beverly
Hills.

The building is **California adobe,’’ a clean, white stucco
structure on a shaded street. The entrance foyer is on the side, up
from an immaculate little yard and tight, tidy shrubbery. The Sales’
living room is decorated with zebra skins and life-sized ceramic
leopards. In one corner stands a bookcase holding Sale’s works, all
richly bound in red leather. Sale himself is rather owlish in
appearance, with thick, horn-rimmed glasses and a poised, ever
watchful demeanor. On his lap he holds an impulsive Yorkshire
Terrier.

He is a quiet, self-effacing man, an old wizard. ‘‘I’m not very
good in an interview.’’ Such a disclaimer may be one way of
commanding attention, but in Sale the modesty seems genuine. He
considers himself out of the movie business. It’s all gone by him
now, he maintains, almost insistently. But there was a time when
he was at the center. He came in as a writer and left as one.
Currently, he’s at work on his fifteenth novel.

* * *

The remarks are desultory. “*I grew up in New York City. Sold
my first poem when I was 11 years old. I was a writer from then
on.

‘*Washington and Lee? I love that school. It was a wonderful
campus for total discussion. I didn’t graduate, you know. I got
married during my freshman year and left just after Easter of my
senior year. My grades weren’t good enough. I got straight A’s in
English and journalism, but I pooped it away in math. I was so in
love with college life that the courses were just a way of staying in
college. Everybody I knew, with the exception of Tom Riegel and
perhaps one or two others are all gone—dead as hell. . . . No, I’ve
never been back. It’s an easy place to remember though.

‘*The first short story that I ever sold was about the Peale
portrait of Washington in Lee Chapel. I made up a theft of the
painting.’’ Sale raises his eyebrows, ‘‘I have a print of the portrait
upstairs in my den.

‘*After I left I went immediately to work as a short story writer
for the pulp-paper magazines. We got 2¢ a word in those days—it
was the Depression, you know. I guess I sold about 500 stories,
novelettes, and so forth to the pulps right up to The Saturday
Evening Post, Colliers, Scribners, etc.

‘‘T sold my first novel, Not Too Narrow, Not Too Deep, to
Metro Goldwyn Mayer. They made it into Strange Cargo (1937). It
was their first million dollar production, with Clark Gable and Joan
Crawford. It’s on television now all the time.

‘*So I moved out here and went to work for the studios. Wrote
37 movies and directed 23 of them. No, none of them are what you
would call famous. Last Sunday on TV I saw one of them,
Abandon Ship with Tyrone Power. It got fine notices in its time.’’

Sale shifts in his chair, stroking his dog with calm, affectionate

15

Richard Sale, with *‘Yorkie,’’ is one of old Hollywood's most prolific writers.

reassurance. He sits quietly, for a few minutes, resisting the tug
toward an old argument. Then, peering over his glasses, he allows,
‘*Hollywood is all different now. I liked the old studio system
better. Stars were under contract to the studios, so directors had an
easier time with them. I worked with them all—Claudette Colbert,
Loretta Young, Jane Russell, Ann Baxter, Jean Crane, you name it.
I was one of the last guys to work with Betty Grable and Marilyn
Monroe. I shot Rock Hudson’s first screen test—which was pretty
bad.

‘Anyway, back then you were protected with the opportunity to
work with the big names. Now you have to get a star to agree to do
a movie, and then he assumes control of it and adjusts the
material—in most cases downward—to the level of his taste.”’

When the big studio system broke up in the early 1950’s, Sale
and his second wife became independent filmmakers. The work was
uncertain at best. Then as now, movies were expensive, and most
of them failed to make a profit. But once, at least, they got lucky.

‘“We were doing a film with Frank Sinatra called Suddenly.
During the shooting, Sinatra got the Oscar for From Here to
Eternity. So when our low budget film came out—zowie!—we
made ten times what we had put into it.”’

During that same period, Sale began to do considerable work for
television also. ‘‘In those early days I wrote a lot of what was on
the air, in addition to writing and directing our own show, Yancey
Derringer, which by the way was a big hit for a year or so. It made
us a lot of money but no fame. Well, you know, it was a

16

 

Wizards of Oz

mediocrity.

‘Today, of course, writers are getting $100,000 for 26 minutes
and arguing about it!’’ Sale shakes his head, smiling.

‘*After a while, I got back to writing novels exclusively. I used
to write on my boat. I'd go out quite a ways off shore early each
morning and then just drift for 11 hours. That’s how I wrote The
Oscar. In that book I wanted to tell the story of how the Academy
Awards were being taken over by agents, promoters, and various
P.R. people from the studios. Well, the book had quite an impact
when it came out. It was the story of five guys nominated for the
same award. Joe Levine bought the rights and reduced the whole
thing to one character and absolute pure melodrama. Well, people
like melodramas—you see it all the time—which is fine, but it’s not
the book. So when a writer sells a book to the movies, he says
goodbye to it. They’re going to do with it what they damn well
please.”’

Sale’s last book, The White Buffalo, was made into a film in
1976 by Dino Delaurentiis. ‘‘Delaurentiis was on a monster kick then.
He had just done King Kong and Orca. He got Charles Bronson to
play Wild Bill Hickock. But the film just did not turn out. The
White Buffalo was not written as a monster story. It was about fear,
fear as it existed in the Old West—it was the sacred white buffalo,
like Moby Dick. The book is very good—I recommend it—but the
picture was awful.”

On contemporary film, Sale is not altogether negative. ‘*I like
John Cassavetes whenever he finally gets around to finishing a
picture. Who’s that woman he works with? Yes, Gina Rowlands—a
great actress. A guy can’t miss with a woman like her. And I’m
fond of the new fairy tales, Spielberg and company. But, you
know, I don’t think that the personal statements of most filmmakers
today are all that fascinating. It all seems so dreary.

‘Tl stick with writing. It never gets easy, but there’s that
glorious moment when it’s finished. And when I'm finished with
this next book I’m home free. ”’

Sale puts the dog down and rises slowly to his feet. His face and
hands are covered with small age spots. There is a barely noticeable
agitation in his voice and fingers. **I’m very happily ensconced in
this cocoon with my wife and dog. And that’s about it. I’ve made
movies all over the world, but we don’t do much traveling
anymore. We've been out there and it’s getting hostile. When you
have to pack a pistol to walk your dog, you know it’s not friendly
territory. I'd rather live in Virginia.”

The working title of Sale’s novel is The Peril.

. Yes, well, they’re all there.*” He looks over past the
ceramic leopards to the bookshelf. **A lifetime.’” The books are
arranged neatly, year by year. “It’s not much—just a lot of
words."

True enough, but Richard Sale does have something to show for
it. Like Michael Norell and Jeb Rosebrook, he is a wordsmith of a
particularly visual imagery. His stories lend themselves to scenes.
And through the special wizardry of his medium, the faces of his
characters, their every expression, grow larger than life.

Next issue: Fielder Cook, Director, and Paul Maslansky, Producer.

& Gazette

Washington and Lee University has
announced the election of three new
members to its Board of Trustees. The new
members, all alumni, are:

—Joseph S. Keelty, ’44, of Baltimore,
Md., president of James Keelty & Co., Inc.,
a residential building and land development
firm in the Baltimore area;

—Guy T. Steuart II, 53, of Chevy
Chase, Md., president of Steuart Investment
Company in Washington, D.C., and Steuart
Ford in Lanham, Md.;

—Frank G. Young, ’66, of Fort Worth,
Texas, vice president of Marshall R. Young
Oil Co. in Fort Worth.

All will serve six-year terms on the
board. Their elections were effective January
1, [9am

In addition, the Board has elected
Jonathan Westervelt Warner, °41, of
Tuscaloosa, Ala., chairman and president of
Gulf States Paper Co., to a new six-year
term. Warner had previously served two six-
year terms on the board. Under the Trustees’
policy, Warner was required to go off the
Board for a year before being eligible for
reelection.

Two other trustees, S L Kopald, °43, of
Memphis, Tenn., and Calvert Thomas, ’38,
"40L, of Hartford, Conn., were reelected to
six-year terms. Kopald is vice president of
Witco Chemical Corporation and general
manager of Humko Chemical in Memphis.
Thomas owns and operates Thomas Cadillac,
Inc., in Hartford.

Three trustees were elected to emeritus
status effective January |. They are Thomas
D. Anderson, ’34L, an attorney with the
Houston, Texas, law firm of Anderson
Brown Orn & Jones; Thomas C. Frost, ’50,
chairman of the board of Cullen/Frost
Bankers, Inc. & Frost National Bank of San
Antonio, Texas; and, Isadore M. Scott,
°37L, chairman of the board of TOSCO
Corp. in Philadelphia.

Keelty is a Baltimore native who
attended Washington and Lee from 1940
through 1942 and received his B.A. degree
in 1943 from Loyola College in Baltimore.

After serving three years as an officer in
the U.S. Navy, Keelty joined the family-
owned James Keelty & Co., Inc., in 1946.

He is currently a member of the board of
trustees of Loyola College and is a member

New Trustees Elected; Booth Ferris Makes Grant

 

Joseph §S. Keelty

 

F rank G. Young

of the board of directors of Equitable
Bancorporation. He previously served as a
trustee of the Maryland Institute College of
Art and was chairman of the board of the:
McDonogh School. He has also served as a
director of the National Association of Home
Buildings and of the Home Builders
Association of Maryland.

Steuart earned his bachelor’s degree from
Washington and Lee in 1953. A native of
Washington, D.C., he served for three years

 

 

Guy T. Steuart III

 

Jack W. Warner

in the U.S. Coast Guard.

Extremely active in civic affairs, Steuart
is a member of the Kiwanis Club of
Washington and has served as president of
the Kenwood Citizens Association and as a
trustee of Sibley Hospital, the National
Cathedral School, and Norwood School.

Steuart has also been actively involved in
Washington and Lee alumni affairs and has
served as chairman of the R. E. Lee
Associates.

17

eg Gazette

Young received two degrees from
Washington and Lee, earning a B.S. in
Commerce from W&L in 1966 and then
receiving the B.A. in geology in 1967. He
earned the law degree from the University of
Texas Law School in 1969 and the master’s
degree in tax law from Southern Methodist
University Law School in 1970.

A native of Fort Worth, Young was
associated with the Fort Worth law firm of
Cantey, Hanger, Gooch, Munn and Collins
from 1970 to 1972 before joining the
Marshall R. Young Oil Co. in 1972.

He is a trustee, secretary and vice
president of the Fort Worth Museum of
Science and History.

W&L currently has 25 trustees.

 

 

Booth Ferris gift boosts
ethics program endowment

The Booth Ferris Foundation of New
York has awarded Washington and Lee a
grant of $100,000 to assist in creating a
permanent endowment for the University’s
innovative program, ‘‘Society and the
Professions: Studies in Applied Ethics. ”’

‘‘Society and the Professions’’ was begun
as an experimental project in 1972 and was
developed under a three-year grant from the
Lilly Endowment. The program includes
seminars in the ethics of business,
journalism, law, and medicine designed to
make pre-professional students in those areas
more aware of the humanistic dimensions of
the professions they plan to enter.

‘* ‘Society and the Professions’ is one of
Washington and Lee’s most distinctive and
valuable academic programs,’’ said
Washington and Lee President Robert E. R.
Huntley. ‘‘Through its generous gift, the
Booth Ferris Foundation is helping us to
assure the continued support of this
important program.”’

The Booth Ferris Foundation began its
operations in 1957 with a trust established by
Mrs. Chancie Ferris Booth and another trust
from the estate of Willis H. Booth. The
combined trusts created the Booth Ferris
Foundation in 1964.

The foundation makes grants in the areas
of religion, education, health, welfare,
public affairs, and the arts.

‘*The trustees of the Booth Ferris
Foundation have long been concerned with
the problems of higher education, and of late
with the problems of the small colleges of
this country,’’ said Robert F. Longley, a
senior vice president of Morgan Guaranty

18

 

New lampposts decorate—and light—the back campus area.

Trust Company and a trustee of the Booth
Ferris Foundation.

‘**Cooperation between education and
foundation must grow if we are to find the
solutions to many of the problems that beset
society today.”

Longley added that the decision to award
the $100,000 grant to Washington and Lee
was based on the Trustees’ “faith both in the
tremendous contribution Washington and Lee
has made to society and the educational
community in the past, and the promise the
University has for the future.”’

According to Farris P. Hotchkiss, W&L’s
director of university relations, the Booth
Ferris gift is doubly significant since in
addition to being applied toward endowing
‘*Society and the Professions,”’ it also
qualifies toward a National Endowment for
the Humanities Challenge Grant.

The NEH has offered Washington and
Lee $200,000 in challenge funds if the
University can raise $600,000 in private
gifts. To date, $480,000 in gifts has been
committed to the NEH challenge, including
the Booth Ferris Foundation gift.

 

 

Former ambassador discusses
Polish situation

The state of affairs in Poland has gone
from bad to worse during the 11 months of
martial law in that country, a former U.S.
Ambassador to Poland told an audience at
this year’s first Contact lecture at W&L in
November.

William R. Schaufele Jr., currently
president and chief executive officer of the
Foreign Policy Association, said that the
Polish government’s decision to release
Solidarity labor union leader Lech Walesa
may have been good politics for the regime,
but Schaufele added that ‘‘I’m not sure how
much good it will do.”’

Schaufele served as the U.S. Ambassador
to Poland from 1976 to 1980. During a 30-
year career in the United States Foreign
Service, he served in a wide variety of posts
in Germany, Morocco, Zaire, and with the
State Department.

He said that the situation in Poland has
deteriorated over the last 11 months because
‘‘the government predicated martial law on
two basic aims: one is to create national
unity, and the other is to solve the economic
problems. The trouble is that those two aims
are mutually dependent. One can’t create
national unity without solving the economic
problems; one can’t solve the economic
problems without creating national unity.’’

Further, Schaufele suggested that the
Polish government has *‘continually painted
itself farther and farther into a corner, taken
more and more repressive action when
opposition was expressed by the underground
Solidarity and other groups. ... . a

As for Walesa’s release in November,
after 11 months of internment, Schaufele said
that he suspects the decision to release the
39-year-old leader of Solidarity was tied up
with negotiations between the government
and the church regarding the planned visit to
Poland next June by Pope John Paul II.

**[ can’t believe, based on what I have
found so far, that they have tamed Walesa,’
said Schaufele. *‘He obviously will not be
able to operate as he did as the head of
Solidarity. But he remains as a focus of
opposition, as a focus of what might have
beénic *

Added Schaufele: *‘I am not very
optimistic about the immediate future of
developments in Poland. The economy is in
chaos. Production has dropped over 25
percent in the last year. And I suspect it will
be a very hard winter. One thing I am sure
of, however, is that if nothing happens in the

’

 

William R. Schaufele Jr., former ambassador to Poland, talks with students prior to his appearance

for Contact.

short run, something will happen in the long
run. And the Poles will rise again. No Polish
government can feel very secure in its
conviction that it will maintain control over
the population.”’

Turning his attention to events in the
Soviet Union, Schaufele said that the death
of Leonid Brezhnev and the accompanying
change in leadership in that country has
created ‘‘a time of opportunity and a time of
danger.’’

‘‘It is a time of opportunity not only
because of the problems the Soviet Union
has but because the change in leadership
psychologically provides an opportunity for
an improvement in relations as long as that
leadership is not more hostile than its
predecessor,’’ Schaufele said.

‘‘T think that the seriousness with which
the world has increasingly viewed possible
confrontation between the superpowers is an
incentive to both of us to look for some kind
of greater accommodations than we have
been able to achieve in the recent past.”’

Schaufele added that the psychological
element in a change of leadership ‘‘can be
valuable in giving a new impetus either to
arms negotiations or also in terms of finding
areas of mutual interest . . . in which we can
come to some agreement on other things”’
even if those areas of agreement are not
terribly important.

But Schaufele also warned that the
change in Soviet leadership creates a period
of danger because ‘‘there are some people in
this country who believe that we should

exploit the weakness of the Soviet Union,
economic and other weaknesses, and that we
would be able to gain from that. I don’t
happen to believe that. The Soviet Union is
not going to lay down and die.’’

He added that there is also danger on the
other side since *‘any new leadership coming
into a country like the Soviet Union may be
well tempted to show its manhood. If one
expects the new leadership immediately to
make concessions on important issues like
Afghanistan or Poland, I think that is very
unrealistic. And in fact they may want to
demonstrate to the Soviet People that they
can be just as tough as their predecessors. I
hope they don’t do that. But they could
create a still worse atmosphere in the
relationship between us.’”’

Schaufele said he hopes the United States
will make positive use of the current
situation by trying to exploit it ‘“‘not to the
detriment of the Soviet Union . . . but to the
benefit of both countries.”’

 

 

University Library names
new Audio-Visual director

Clara J. DiFelice has been appointed
assistant professor and director of the Audio-
Visual Center for the University Library at
Washington and Lee.

A native of Tonawanda, N.Y., Ms.
DiFelice received her bachelor’s degree from
Eisenhower College and earned the master’s

19

 

de Gazette

of library science degree from the State
University of New York at Buffalo.

She came to Washington and Lee from
Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.,
where she had served as assistant professor
and director of audio-visuals for the past
three years.

A member of the Association of
Educational Communications and
Technology, Ms. DiFelice will direct the
library’s expanding audio-visual program.
One of her current research interests involves
local access to cable television systems. She
conducted a research project on that subject
in 1980 with a grant from Oakland
University.

 

 

Chisholm appointed
to law library post

Linda Chisholm has been named
circulation supervisor for the Wilbur C. Hall
Law Library at Washington and Lee.

Mrs. Chisholm is a native of
Arkadelphia, Ark., and received a degree in
business administration from Southern
Arkansas University.

She replaced Catherine M. Clayton, who
retired from the position she had held since
1974.

 

 

Professor is critical
of Tylenol coverage

The national media did a superb job in
their initial reporting of the recent Tylenol
tampering case but went overboard by giving
the story excessive treatment after the first
several days, says Louis W. Hodges, director
of Washington and Lee’s program in applied
ethics. :

Hodges contends that the media’s
excessiveness contributed to the rash of so-
called ‘‘copycat’’ tampering incidents that
have followed.

‘*As in most situations, the media had
two goals to pursue in reporting this story,
and those two goals are in conflict,’’ says
Hodges, who teaches a seminar in journalism
ethics with W&L journalism professor R. H.
MacDonald. The journalism ethics seminar is
one component of W&L’s Society and the
Professions program, a series of seminars
examining the ethics involved in journalism,
medicine, the legal profession, and business.

‘*On the one hand, the media need to
serve the public by getting out the word

20

 

 

Louis W. Hodges

about a dangerous product,’’ Hodges notes.
‘*That requires immediate and extensive
coverage.

‘*On the other hand, it is true that we live
in a crazy world. And it is true that the more
extensive the media coverage, the more
likely we are to have copying crimes. So
therein lies the basic problem: trying to be
extensive without being excessive.’’

In the case of the Tylenol tampering that
resulted in deaths in the Chicago area,
Hodges believes the media reacted
exceptionally well with their initial reports
that warned of the potential dangers involved
with the product.

‘*But there are two areas in which I fault
the national media,’’ Hodges says.

‘‘For one thing, they reported on national
news several copycat crimes in which it
appears there was only one localized
incident,’’ Hodges says. ‘“There is not a
need for a period of three to four weeks after
the initial incident to pick up every single
one of these local incidents.

‘“The second area in which the media
failed was the excessive follow-up coverage
given to the Tylenol investigation itself.
There were daily reports on various aspects
of the investigation. That is excessive and
does not serve the initial goal.

‘“‘Once the investigation has made some
headway, then it may be appropriate to have
such stories. Once there is something to
announce in the way of an arrest in the case,
then it is entirely appropriate to explain fully
how the person committed the crime and, if
at all possible, why it was committed with a
full profile.’’

The issue of reporting such incidents was
raised during the ninth Journalism Ethics

Institute conducted at Washington and Lee in
November and coordinated by Hodges and
MacDonald. The three-day institute involved
practicing journalists, W&L students, and
W&L faculty members in a series of
seminars on specific cases involving the
ethics of journalism.

 

 

ROTC names officers

David P. Ridlon, a Washington and Lee
senior from West Hartford, Conn., has been
elected Corps Commander of the
University’s Army ROTC for 1982-83.

Other W&L seniors who were named
officers in the Army ROTC Unit are
Anthony J. Zaccagnini of Reisterstown, Md.
Corps Executive Officer; Robert G. Ortiz of
Hopewell, Va., Adjutant; Newton P.
Kendrick of Norfolk, Va.,
Intelligence/Security Officer; Douglas W.
Lessley of Charleston, W.Va.,
Operations/Training Officer; H. Bowen
Woodruff of Anniston, Ala.,
Supply/Logistics Officer; and, Robert A.
Stephen of Columbus, Ga., Assistant
Operations Officer.

Three Washington and Lee ROTC cadets
competed for and won the opportunity to
attend the Army’s Flight Orientation
Program at Fort Rucker, Ala., this past
summer.

The three, all seniors, are Zaccagnini,
Don J. Dudley of Lexington, and H. Brady
Millican III of New York.

 

 

Faculty activity

—An article by W&L law professor
Frederic L. Kirgis Jr. has recently been
published in the Hofstra Law Review.
Entitled **A Wishful Thinker’s Rehearing in
the ‘Hague’ Case,”’ the article is part of a
two-issue symposium on a case decided last
year by the U.S. Supreme Court. The case,
‘* Allstate Insurance Co. v. Hague,”’’ raised
the question of whether it was constitutional
for a Minnesota court to apply Minnesota
law to decide an insurance coverage question
arising from an accident in Wisconsin and
involving Wisconsin citizens.

According to Kirgis, the case was the
most important Supreme Court case on the
matter of choice of law in the past 15 years
and has engendered considerable comment in
law reviews.

Kirgis, who is the director of Washington

and Lee’s Frances Lewis Law Center, was
among a number of the country’s leading
conflict-of-laws scholars who contributed to
the Hofstra symposium.

—Lewis H. LaRue, professor of law,
presented two lectures at the Osgoode Hall
Law School of York University in Toronto,
Canada, in November.

LaRue examined the methods that a legal
historian would use to make an historical
analysis of a Supreme Court opinion in a talk
to a seminar of graduate students.

His second lecture was to the faculty of
Osgoode Hall Law School and was entitled
‘Watergate: What Was All That Talk About
The Rule of Law?’’ He discussed the
grounds of the impeachment proceedings
against Richard Nixon, focusing on the
argument that Nixon had endangered the rule
of law.

A graduate of Washington and Lee,
LaRue earned his law degree from Harvard
University. He joined the faculty of the
W&L law school in 1967.

—Capt. Robert C. Peniston was a guest
at the December ceremony to recommission
the battleship USS New Jersey. President
Reagan, who recommissioned the New Jersey
in Long Beach, Calif., quoted from Peniston’s
1969 decommissioning speech during the
ceremonies. Peniston was the commanding
officer of the New Jersey when it was decom-
missioned. He is director of Lee Chapel.

_—Halford R. Ryan, associate professor
of public speaking, has published a book of
speeches and essays designed for speech
courses in American public address,
rhetorical criticism, and persuasion.

Entitled American Rhetoric from
Roosevelt to Reagan, the book is being
published by Waveland Press of Prospect
Heights, II.

Ryan included in the book major
presidential addresses from Franklin Delano
Roosevelt to the present as well as speeches
on issues such as civil rights, the Vietnam
war, the media, the Equal Rights
Amendment, and religious fundamentalism.
In addition to such speakers as Huey Long,
Father Coughlin, and Joseph McCarthy, the
volume will include speeches by Martin
Luther King Jr., Frank Stanton, Vernon
Jordan, Shirley Chisholm, Frank Church as
well as a sermon by Jerry Falwell.

Four major articles written by Ryan
appear in the book along with critical essays
by other scholars. Ryan’s work on FDR’s
first and fourth inaugural addresses, his essay
on President Harry S Truman’s firing of
General Douglas MacArthur, and his essay
on speeches of accusation and defense which

 

Halford R. Ryan

ensued from a National Endowment for the
Humanities Summer Seminar will be
included.

The essays were originally published in
Quarterly Journal of Speech and Presidential
Studies Quarterly. The research on FDR’s
speeches was conducted in the Roosevelt
Library and supported by a grant from the
Eleanor Roosevelt Institute while the Truman
essay is based on research conducted in the
Truman Library with the support of a Glenn
Grant from Washington and Lee.

—W. Barlow Newbolt, professor of
physics, presented a contributed paper at the
meeting of the Southeastern Section of the
American Physical Society held in
Lexington, Ky., last month.

The title of Newbolt’s paper was ‘‘The
Physics of a Relativistic Oscillator.’’ He
emphasized two features of the oscillator—
its mechanics and its usefulness as a
timekeeper.

The oscillator is also the subject of a
published abstract by Newbolt in the
September Bulletin of the American Physical
Society.

—Pamela H. Simpson, associate
professor of art history and assistant dean,
has been elected president of the Rockbridge
Historical Society.

Booth, who has directed the foundation
since its inception in 1953, will be succeeded
as the chief administrative officer by Dr.
Samuel R. Spencer Jr., president of
Davidson College in Davidson, N.C.

The VFIC is composed of 14 private
colleges and universities in Virginia,
including Washington and Lee, and seeks
financial support for its members from
business and industry throughout the state.

Prior to joining the VFIC, Booth had
served as director of public relations and
assistant professor of journalism at
Washington and Lee from 1946 through
1950. Under Booth’s leadership, the VFIC
has become the most successful organization
of its kind in the United States, raising more
than $31 million for its member institutions
over the past 30 years.

 

 

 

 

Booth to retire
as VFIC director

Lea Booth, ’40, will retire in July from
his position as executive director of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges.

W&L inducts 32
into Phi Eta Sigma

Thirty-two Washington and Lee
sophomores were inducted in November into
Phi Eta Sigma, the national honor society for
students who completed their freshman year
with superior academic records.

To be eligible for Phi Eta Sigma
membership, a freshman must achieve at
least a 3.5 grade-point average (on a 4.0
scale). The society was founded in 1923 at
the University of Illinois and now has 180
chapters and more than 200,000 members
nationally.

H. Robert Huntley, dean of freshmen at
W&L and Phi Eta Sigma chapter adviser,
presided over the initiation ceremonies.

The students inducted into Phi Eta Sigma
were: Gabriel B. Balazs of Lexington;
Michael S. Bearup of Silver City, N. Mex.;
Stephen H. Bendheim of Richmond; Martin
A. Berisford III of White Sulphur Springs,
W.Va.; Roger L. Butler of Hampton, Va.;
Charles Joseph Cadle of Milford, Ohio; Luke
L. Chang of Dallas, Texas; Samuel P. Dalton
of Springfield, Mo.; John C. Dawson III of
Houston, Texas; John J. Delany III of
Lexington; Charles R. DePoy of Weirton,
W.Va.; John A. Diduro of Geneva, N.Y.;

Christopher Fulton of Memphis, Tenn. ;
Apostolos G. Grekos of Danville, Va.;
David L. Harrar I of Rydal, Pa.; Scott J.
Henderson of Marysville, Ohio; Kevin H.
Kelley of San Antonio, Texas; John D. Long
of Dix Hills, N.Y.; David E. McGehee of
Brownsboro, Ala.; Robert N. Miller of
Columbia, Md.; Ken L. Moles of Roanoke,
Va.; Clarke H. Morledge of Williamsburg,

21

él Gazette

Va.; James K. Murphy of Worcester, Mass.;

James N. Nance of Indian Harbour
Beach, Fla.; Kenneth S. Nankin of
Columbia, S.C.; James B. Newsome of
Atlanta, Ga.; Robert A. Schlegel of Gray,
Maine; B. Scott Tilley of Richmond; Robert
J. Tomaso of Milford, Mass.; David M.
Wilkinson of Covington, Va.; Christopher
Williams of Newark, Del.; and, Jon E.
Zagrodzky of Houston, Texas.

 

 

Chapman is named
Reeves Center coordinator

Benjamin L. Chapman, ’64, has been
named program coordinator of the Reeves
Center for the Exhibition and Study of
Paintings and Porcelain at Washington and
Lee:

The Reeves Center, which opened in
September, serves as the permanent home for
the University’s two important collections:
the Reeves Collection of porcelain and the
paintings by Louise Herreshoff.

In his capacity as program coordinator,
Chapman will be primarily responsible for
coordinating student research projects and
programs at the Center. He will also be
involved with planning for special events. A
native of Greenwich, Conn., Chapman
received the B.A. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1964 and the J.D. degree from
the University of North Carolina School of
Law in 1967.

 

 

Job-hunting attitudes
changing at W&L

College students’ perception of the
current job market is having a profound
effect on their attitudes toward job-hunting
this year, says Michael A. Cappeto, associate
dean of students at Washington and Lee.

According to Cappeto, who advises
W&L’s students on careers, more students
than ever before are ‘“somewhere between
extremely concerned to almost panicked’’
about finding a job.

‘*In the eight years that I have been
counseling students here at Washington and
Lee, this is the worst situation that I have
encountered,’’ says Cappeto.

He adds that the job situation is the worst
on three different fronts.

‘*In terms of employers telling me that
they are not going to have as many jobs open,
this is the worst year I’ve seen,”’ said

ae

Cappeto. ‘‘And in terms of the predictions
about the job market that are constantly
appearing in the media, this is the worst
year.”

The third front, says Cappeto, involves
student attitudes, which take two forms.

‘‘Obviously, the students recognize how
bad the job market is. There are two
extremes in their reaction. On the one hand,
there are those who go about the job-hunting
in an almost panic-stricken state. On the
other hand, there are those who throw up
their hands and say it’s futile because they
aren’t going to get a job.”’

Cappeto says that the number of
companies who send representatives to the
Washington and Lee campus to conduct
interviews remained stable this fall.

‘*But I keep hearing that we should be
prepared to have cancellations by some
recruiters this winter,’’ he says.

‘*We have already lost one major
recruiter for the winter thus far. The
company had recruited on the campus the
last three years but called to tell me they just
had no positions available.

‘*Actually, I prefer that response to the
charade by some companies of showing up,
interviewing students, getting their hopes up,
when they have no intentions of hiring.”’

Cappeto’s advice to students is not to
panic but to go about their job-hunting in an
organized manner.

‘*T tell the students to start early, to know
exactly what it is they want, and to have a job-
hunting strategy,’’ Cappeto says. ““There are
jobs out there. But the fact is that the best
jobs do not go to the best people, they go to
the best job-hunters. If you’re a good person
who doesn’t know how to hunt for a job,
you’re quite likely to be a good person who
is unemployed.’’

 

Name Your Candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-
Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,

 

J. W. JENNINGS JRr., 65, °72L
Chairman

Woods, Rogers, Muse,
Walker & Thornton

P.O. Box 720

Roanoke, Va. 24004

& Howell

Bank Building

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill five seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and one vacancy
on the University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the
Alumni Association may submit names of
alumni to the Nominating Committee for
nomination for the offices to be filled.

 

 

JOHN M. MADISON Jr., 64
Wiener, Weiss,

411 Commercial National

Shreveport, La. 71101

the names and addresses of the Nominating
Committee for 1982-83 are listed below:

 

HERBERT M. WEED °42
United Park City Mines Co.
309 Kearns Building

Salt Lake City, Utah 84101

Madison

Alumni may send names directly to any
member of the committee or to the com-
mittee through the office of the Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Association at the
University.

The committee will close its report on
April 15, 1983, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 13, 1983.

 

 

 

 

 

 

In efforts to assist the students in their
job-hunting techniques, Cappeto stages
several sessions on topics involved with job-
hunting.

‘*T’ve seen an increase of between 30 and
50 percent in the number of people attending
the sessions this year,’’ Cappeto says.
‘*There is little question that more students
than ever before are preparing for the task of
finding a job.

‘‘T have seen that concern trickle down to
the underclassmen as well. I have had
underclassmen in record numbers come into
my office this year and ask about
employment possibilities and how they
should prepare.’’

 

 

Schweller is winner
in Davis Moot Court

Stephen G. Schweller, a second-year
student from Dayton, Ohio, won the annual
John W. Davis Moot Court Competition in
the Washington and Lee School of Law in
November.

Schweller and the other finalists
presented their oral arguments to a bench of
three distinguished judges. The judges for
this year’s competition were Judge George
C. Pratt of the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals; Judge Eugene Nickerson, federal
judge for the Eastern District of New York;
and, Judge Marie-Louise Nickerson, judge of
the Nassau County (N.Y.) Circuit Court.

C. Jay Robbins, a third-year student from
Fredericksburg, Va., finished second in the
finals with Susan P. Voorhees, a second-year
student from Titusville, N.J., in third and
Peter W. Leberman, a second-year student
from Durham, N.H., in fourth place.

 

 

Historian discusses
discovery of FDR tapes

The University of Washington historian
who uncovered recordings of Franklin D.
Roosevelt’s private conversations told a
Washington and Lee audience in November
that while the discovery does not **turn
anything upside down’’ the recordings are of
considerable historical significance.

Dr. Robert J. C. Butow said the
recordings of Roosevelt speaking with aides
and visitors in the Oval Office of the White
House provide “‘a terrific sense of the man”’
which is not present in written accounts of
conversations.

 

Dr. Robert J. C. Butow discusses the Roosevelt tapes following his lecture.

‘*By drawing on the FDR tapes at Hyde
Park, we are able to listen for the first time
to the authentic, private voice of Franklin
Roosevelt—jaunty one moment, serious the
next, shrewd, competent, imperturbable
under pressure, always in command,’’ Butow
said.

Butow found the long-forgotten
recordings while conducting research in the
Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, N.Y. He
eventually reconstructed the events that led to
Roosevelt’s decision to have a tape machine
hidden away in an enclosure under the Oval
Office and used to record conversations
through a microphone that was hidden in a
lamp on the President’s desk.

‘*There is absolutely no evidence to
suggest that the President was at any time
pursuing malevolent or Machiavellian
purposes,’’ Butow said. “‘In FDR’s White
House, the machine was never used to entrap
anyone.’

Butow said his research indicated
Roosevelt had the machine installed in the
summer of 1940 after-he was misquoted in
newspaper accounts of a private meeting he
had with some senators.

He suggested another possible
explanation for the machine’s presence was
Roosevelt’s desire to record his press
conferences for historical purposes.

‘*The key factor here may be that
particular moment in time,’’ said Butow.
‘*The year 1940 was not just another
presidential election year. By running for a
third term, FDR was doing what no other

 

chief executive had ever attempted. He did
not know whether he would win or lose. This
fact may have prompted him to think of
employing the machine to record for
posterity what might prove to be the very last
of his presidential press conferences. ’’

Butow noted that the recording machine
was disconnected a few days after
Roosevelt’s reelection.

During his presentation at W&L, Butow
played excerpts of a recorded conversation
Roosevelt had with Secretary of State Cordell
Hull on October 4, 1940, during which the
President discussed Japanese demands that
the U.S. abandon its bases on Wake and
Midway islands and at Pearl Harbor.

Butow is currently pursuing continued
research into Roosevelt’s life. His
presentation at Washington and Lee. was
sponsored by the University’s department of
history.

Alive and well

Some folks at Washington’s National
Archives were taken aback not long ago
when a man telephoned to inquire about an
article in the latest issue of Prologue, the
journal of the National Archives.

The man was calling about an article
entitled ‘‘Dwight D. Eisenhower and Wolf
Ladejinsky: The Politics of the Declining
Red Scare, 1954-55’’ and including many
references to the investigative journalism

23

 

& Gazette

conducted on that case by Washington and
Lee journalism professor Clark Mollenhoff.

When the caller identified himself as
Clark Mollenhoff, the same Clark
Mollenhoff who figures so prominently in
the Prologue story, there was a long pause at
the other end of the line.

Finally, the silence was broken when the
young woman from the National Archives
told Mollenhoff: ** You are the first call
we’ve ever had from someone we’ ve written
about. Most of them are long dead.”’

 

 

Two students win
Johnson scholarship

Washington and Lee juniors Bill Foster
of Newark, Del., and Jet Taylor of Ventura,
Calif., have been awarded the L. K. Johnson
Scholarship for 1982-83.

This represents the first time since the
endowed scholarship fund was established in
1974 that the award has been made to two
students. Foster and Taylor are the ninth and
tenth W&L students to receive the
scholarship.

The Johnson Scholarship was created in
honor of Lewis Kerr Johnson, the Robert G.
Brown Professor Emeritus of Administration
at Washington and Lee. Approximately 280
of Johnson’s former students have
contributed to the scholarship since its
establishment.

Johnson retired in 1973 after serving for
40 years as professor of administration and
head of the department of administration.

The Johnson Scholarship is awarded to a
rising junior majoring in business
administration.

Foster is a member of Phi Eta Sigma, the
freshman honor society, and Phi Kappa Psi
social fraternity. He is also a member of both
the varsity football and baseball teams.

Taylor is a member of the Student
Activities Board, and is a representative to
the University Council. He has worked as a
photographer for the Ring-tum Phi, the
student newspaper, and the Calyx, the
yearbook.

 

 

In the arts

—Novelist and short story writer Ann
Beattie read from her works in November
under sponsorship of the Glasgow
Committee. Currently a visiting writer in the
department of English at the University of

24

 

Virginia, Beattie has published two novels
and two collections of short stories. She has
contributed numerous short stories to The
New Yorker.

—The Washington and Lee University
Concert Guild presented the Boehm
Quintette in December.

—George Garrett, General Conquest
Visiting Professor at Virginia Military
Institute this fall, presented a reading from
his works in December also under the
Glasgow Committee’s sponsorship.

Garrett is among the most versatile of
American writers. He is a poet, a novelist, a
playwright, a critic, and a screenwriter
with three films to his credit.

—The works of six contemporary
Virginia photographers were on display in
the duPont Gallery at Washington and Lee
from late November to mid-December.

Photographers whose works comprised
the exhibition were:

—Sally Mann of Lexington, whose
photographs are in permanent collections of
the Museum of Modern Art, the Hirshhorn
Museum, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the
Chrysler Museum and many private
collections. She has exhibited widely
throughout the United States and recently
was awarded a National Endowment for the
Arts grant and a Virginia Museum
Professional Fellowship;

—George Nan of Richmond, who is
chairman of the photography department at
Virginia Commonwealth University.

—RMarsha Polier of Richmond, who will
have hand-tinted photographs in the
exhibition;

Writer Ann Beattie meets with members of an English seminar prior to a reading from her works.

 

—Dale Quarterman of Richmond, who is
a professor of photography at Virginia
Commonwealth University.

—Nancy Spencer of Lexington, who
exhibited silver print photographs which
explore transitions of time in a series of
images. Some of her photographs were
portraits of Lexington residents. She had a
one-person show in duPont Gallery in 1981
and has exhibited her work in many other
galleries;

—Willie Anne Wright of Richmond, who
exhibited pinhole photographs which are
direct exposures to sunlight on a 16-by-20
inch Cibachrome color material placed in a
self-designed pinhole camera.

 

 

Campus speakers

—Professor Larry Weiskrantz, head of
the department of experimental psychology
at England’s Oxford University and a fellow
of Magdalen College, presented a lecture on
his current research in December.

The lecture, entitled *‘Further Research
on Blindsight (Or Remnants of Sight in
Some Who Are Blind).’’ Weiskrantz has
been able to demonstrate that individuals
who have suffered damage to the area of the
brain which controls vision actually do retain
some vision.

—The tensions that exist between
religious or ethnic communities and the
larger societies in which they exist were
examined during a colloquium at Washington
and Lee University’s Frances Lewis Law

 

Center in November. The communities under
discussion were the Amish, Poletown in
Detroit, and the Mbuti in Zaire.

Three discussion leaders presented papers
that were used to form the basis of
discussions of the three case studies.

Professor John Hostetler, an
anthropologist from Temple University,
discussed the Amish. Professor John
Bukowczyk, an historian from Wayne State
University in Detroit, discussed Poletown.
Dr. Colin Turnbull, an anthropologist from
George Washington University, discussed
the Mbuti.

Much of the discussion focused on how
‘‘community’’ should be defined and how a
community does and/or should respond when
pressures are brought upon it from the larger
society.

The discussants in the colloquium from
outside Washington and Lee were Dr.
Gertrude Huntington, an anthropologist from
the University of Michigan; Dr. John
Kromkowski, a political scientist from the
National Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs;
Dr. Thaddeus Radzialowski, an historian
from Southwest State University; and,
Professor Carol Weisbrod, a law professor
from the University of Connecticut.

_ Several Washington and Lee faculty
members also participated in the colloquium.

According to Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., the

 

gy

Alfred E. Eckes, 64, chairma

  

n Of the International Trade Commission, returned to his alma mater during

colloquium was the first time that the Lewis
Law Center has attempted to bring together
representatives from such diverse disciplines.
The presentations of the discussion
leaders will be rewritten in light of the two-
day colloquium and will then be submitted
for possible publication in either the
Washington and Lee Law Review or as an
occasional paper of the Lewis Law Center.
—Emory University mathematics
professor Henry Sharp presented a lecture

entitled ‘‘An Introduction to Extremal

Problems in Finite Set Theory’’ in
November. The lecture was sponsored by the
department of mathematics at W&L, and was
open to the public.

—Parker Potter, ’79, currently a Ph.D.
candidate in anthropology at Brown
University, presented a lecture entitled
‘*Historic Site Archaeology in a Historically
Significant Town: Annapolis, Maryland’’ in
December.

The lecture was sponsored jointly by the
Department of Sociology and Anthropology
of Washington and Lee and the Lexington
Chapter of the Archaeological Society of
Virginia.

Potter’s interest in historic site work was
initiated during his undergraduate years at
Washington and Lee when he worked at the
Liberty Hall dig. His archaeological research
interests include the nature of 18th- and 19th-

 

November to meet with several classes in the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics. Appointed
by President Reagan to a vacancy on the ITC in 1981, Eckes was elevated to the post of chairman in 1982.

century economics in America and the
implications of the historical perceptions of
populations on established histories. An
expert on |18th-century English ceramics,
Potter has established a distinguished record
for himself during his three years at Brown.

 

 

The McDowell ‘Swing’

The tune was eminently familiar. The
lyrics were equally unusual.

Charles R. McDowell Jr., ’48, the
Washington-based columnist for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, was elected
president of the Gridiron Club, an
organization comprised of Washington
journalists who stage an annual banquet at
which politicians are roasted as the main
course.

During the Gridiron Club’s December
Dinner when McDowell’s presidency was
announced, the club members seranaded him
with the McDowell Song, sung to the tune of
the Washington and Lee Swing:

You take a bo-na fide Vir-gin-i-an
And teach him ev-ry re-bel howl
ECHO—Oh, what a howl.

You pick a son of Old Do-min-i-on,
Who happens to be Charles Mc-Dow’]
ECHO—OIP Chazz Mc-Dow’1.

You choose a star of te-le-vi-sion,

who writes a co-lumn on the side,

And then you vote, vote, vote—

But you don’t rock the boat

You name the Grid-iron Club’s new guide.

You take the Yank-ee twang of Ed-gar Poe,

Kil-pat-rick’s lib-ral point of view.
ECHO—He’d ra-ther sue.

You add con-ser-va-tive Carl Row-an,

And Jim-my Con-nors’ soft touch, too.
ECHO—It makes you blue.

You put in Goo-dy-koontz’ Bronx ac-cent,

And Jim Mc-Cart-ney’s chron-ic scowl,

And you've got Dix-ie’s choice,

The Grid-iron Club’s new voice,

Our Pres-i-dent Charles R. Mc-Dowell.

You take a Byrd like Lit-tle Har-ry,
You go for Ann Mc-Dow-ell’s spouse
ECHO—Yes, that’s her spouse.
You take the Sun-day com-men-ta-ry,
You've got an-o-ther Ro-bert Strauss
Echo—Not Chair-man Strauss.

Now, Char-lie’s count-ry sense of hu-mor
Makes ci-ty folks throw in the towel.

So we'll take Rich-mond’s boy,

The Gri-diron’s pride and joy,

Our Pre-si-dent, Charles R. Mc-Dowell.

20

 

It is early in the 1982 season and already
trade talk is rampant.

‘*This is my final offer,’’ says a weary
voice at one end of the telephone. ‘‘I’ll give
you Joe Theismann for Dwight Clark and
your second round draft choice in 1983.’’

‘*You gotta be kidding!’’ comes the
astonished and clearly aggravated reply. ‘‘I
know how badly your club needs wide
receivers right now. Tell you what: throw in
Eddie Lee Ivery with Theismann and then
maybe we’ll talk deal.’’

A couple of National Football League
general managers haggling over players,
right? Wrong. The conversants in this case
are two owners in Washington and Lee’s
National Phootball League.

What’s that? You say you’ve never heard
of the National Phootball League? Read on
and discover how you too can find happiness
(or heartache) as the proud (or exasperated)
owner of your very own relatively
professional football team.

W&L’s NPL (not to be confused with the
NEL, the USFL, the ACFL, or the AFL-
CIO) completed its second season this
January when the Hard Hearts won a 34-24
victory over the Dollar Bills in Supper Bowl
II (not to be confused with Super Bowls I
through XVII). The excitement and
pageantry of the championship game (which
included a halftime speech by Roanoke
Times & World-News sports editor Bill Brill)
even managed to make everyone forget a
lengthy midseason players’ strike.

The NPL is composed of 10 teams
owned, operated, and (you’ll pardon the
expression) ‘‘coached’’ by W&L
administrators and faculty members. Each
team consists of 12 players who,
coincidentally, also play in that other league,
the NFL. And during each week of the NFL
season, the NPL owner/coach submits a
starting lineup that consists of a quarterback,
two running backs, two wide receivers, a
tight end, and a placekicker. The NPL team
then receives credit for the points that the
players in his lineup score in their respective
NPL games that week.

Confused? Good. You’re just beginning
to appreciate the complexities involved here.

To illustrate, let’s take one of the more
memorable games of the NPL’s 1982 season,
a game long-time NPL observers consider
one of the league’s true classics, in which the
Typoes, owned by journalism professors Bob
de Maria and Ham Smith, played the
Bulldogs, owned by associate development
director Carter McNeese.

The Typoes’ starting lineup consisted of
Cleveland’s Brian Sipe at quarterback,
Philadelphia’s Wilbert Montgomery and
Chicago’s Walter Payton at running backs,
Green Bay’s James Lofton and New

England’s Stanley Morgan at wide receivers,

26

What It Is
Is Phootball

 

Dallas’ Doug Cosbie at tight end, and the
Cowboys’ Rafael Septien as the kicker.

During the NFL games of that weekend,
Montgomery ran for three touchdowns
(worth six points each), Lofton and Cosbie
each caught a touchdown pass, and Septien
kicked one field goal and an extra point (four
points). That gave the Typoes a total of 34.

The Bulldogs, meantime, got three
touchdown passes (also worth six points
each) from Pittsburgh quarterback Terry
Bradshaw, one touchdown from Atlanta
running back William Andrews, and nine
points from Kansas City placekicker Nick
Lowery for a total of 33 points. Thus, the
Typoes had eked out a one-point victory, 34-
3a:

Not so difficult now, is it? Of course,
McNeese was eaten alive by the sports
writers and Tuesday morning quarterbacks
for his decision to start Don Hasselback at
tight end ahead of Paul Coffman, who spent
that week on the Bulldogs’ bench but caught
two touchdown passes for Green Bay.
Coffman’s 12 points would have given the
Bulldogs an easy win. Not that McNeese
came away empty handed. His failure to start
Coffman earned him the NPL’s coveted
‘*Goat of the Week’’ laurels in the league’s
weekly newsletter.

Throughout the season, teams can place
players on waivers and claim free agents
through a series of intricate maneuvers (i.e.,
writing the players’ name on a piece of paper

and turning the paper into league offices).
Owners also trade back and forth with a
majority of deals occuring midway through a
particularly good cocktail party.

The NPL came into existence in
September 1981 when W&L news director
Jeff Hanna, who had organized similar
leagues in the past, appointed himself
commissioner of the NPL and conducted the
league’s first draft on the Alumni House
terrace.

‘‘T was extremely impressed with the
expertise that the NPL owners displayed in
the first draft,’’ the commissioner said. ‘‘Not
a single owner drafted a player who was not
still living. Only a few of the players drafted
were out for the season with injuries or had
retired or were playing in Canada.”’

Clearly, NPL owners took as much care
in selecting their team names as in the draft
with such original nicknames as Woods
Creek Beavers and Dollar Bills (owned by
W&L admissions director Bill Hartog, a
long-time disciple of George Steinbrenner)
among the few names fit to print in any
decent publication.

The NPL’s incredible success has not
come without problems. Commissioner
Hanna has been forced to conduct more than
a dozen investigations into charges ranging
from player tampering to poor taste in
uniform colors. The commissioner’s greatest
coup was arranging for Too Tall Jones to
speak at the Supper Bowl I banquet.

Those minor disputes notwithstanding,
the NPL’s meteoric rise to prominence even
spawned a rival league on the W&L campus
this year when the ACFL (Arm Chair
Football League) began its first season with
10 new franchises.

So far, the established NPL and the
fledgling ACFL have managed to co-exist
peacefully, although that may change when
the leagues begin negotiating television
packages with W&L’s Cable Nine next
summer.

‘We did a careful marketing survey
before we started and discovered that
Washington and Lee is plenty big enough to
support two pro leagues,’’ said W&L dean of
students Lew John, commissioner of the
ACEL.

‘*Actually the competition from a new
league is healthy,’’ NPL Commissioner
Hanna noted. ‘*‘Of course, everyone
recognizes the ACFL has a long way to go
before it reaches parity with our parody.”’

For information on how to organize your
own league, simply drop a stamped, self-
addressed envelope and a late model
automobile (new or used) in the mail to Jeff
Hanna, Office of the Commissioner, NPL
Plaza, Reid Hall, Washington and Lee,
Lexington, VA 24450. (Just kidding about
the stamp.)

Another Winner

Generals Record Third Straight Winning Football Season; Cross Country Wins ODAC

 

 

Football team posts
third winning season

Thanks primarily to a defensive unit that
did not allow a point in the final two games,
Washington and Lee’s 1982 football
Generals posted their third consecutive
winning season this fall with a final record of
5-4.

The back-to-back shutouts of 41-0 over
Catholic and 6-0 over Georgetown came after
the Generals had suffered through a three-
game losing streak midway in the season
with losses to Hampden-Sydney (0-3),
Sewanee (20-21), and Bridgewater (13-28).

‘‘T am pleased with the way we bounced
back to finish with a winning record,”’ said
W&L head coach Gary Fallon, whose teams
own an overall 25-24 record during his four
seasons.

**When we lost three in a row, our
players could have washed out the remaining
games. But they put together one of their
best overall efforts against Catholic and then
came through under very difficult conditions
(30 mile-an-hour wind and 40-degree
temperatures) to beat Georgetown.”’

In addition to the season-ending
victories, the Generals also scored wins over
Emory & Henry (21-15), Maryville (28-14),
and Randolph-Macon (20-19) while losing to
Centre (21-34).

W&L, which had won the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship in 1981,
finished in second place in the six-team
ODAC this year.

Offensively, the Generals were again led
by tailback Chris Cavalline, a senior from St.
Mary’s, Pa., who ran for 483 yards and six
touchdowns while also catching 19 passes for
another 246 yards and a touchdown.

Sophomore John Thompson (Houston)
and junior Al Paradise (Parsippany, N.J.)
shared the quarterbacking duties. Thompson
completed 56 of 104 pass attempts for 681
yards and three touchdowns; Paradise was 43
of 86 for 472 yards and two touchdowns.

Senior tackle Andy Foley (Basset, Va.)
and junior center Glenn Kirschner (Point
Pleasant, Va.) anchored the offensive line.
Both Foley and Kirschner were voted to the
ODAC All-Conference first team.

On defense senior end Ken Manganiello

(White Haven, Pa.), also an all-ODAC first
team selection, had 55 solo tackles,
including 14 for losses totalling 89 yards.
Senior safety Marty Thomas (Frostburg,
Md.) led the secondary, intercepting five
passes. Linebackers John Cole (Martinsville,
W.Va.), a junior, and Don Kellerman
(Alexandria, Va.), a senior, each had 48 solo
tackles.

WL assistant football coach Jeff Stickley maps strategy for members of the Generals’ offensive line.

 

 

Generals finish 8-3-2
in varsity soccer

Washington and Lee’s veteran soccer
team captured its final three matches of the
season to finish with an impressive 8-3-2
record for 1982.

Included in those final three victories was

 

a 3-1 decision over cross-town rival VMI in
the second annual United Way Collegiate
Cup match.

Head coach Rolf Piranian credited his
team’s six seniors for providing crucial
leadership during the season. Five of those
seniors—Tad Renner (Raleigh, N.C.) on
defense, Tom Elder (Norfolk, Va.) at
forward, Kirk Mancer (Philadelphia, Pa.) in
the goal, Mark Carduner (Hightstown, Pa.)
at midfield, and Brad Poorman (Miami, Fla.)
at forward—started throughout the season.
Classmate Jerry Moyer (Hilton Head Island,
S.C.) backed up at forward.

Poorman paced the team in scoring with
10 goals and four assists. Mancer collected
71 saves and allowed 11 goals, finishing his
career with 11 shutouts to tie with Kevin
Carney, 80, for the team record in that
category. Poorman and Renner were named

 

Lexington, Va. 24450.

 

Keep up with the Generals

To keep up with Washington and Lee’s sports scene, subscribe to ‘General-Lee’
Speaking, a service of the Washington and Lee sports information office. ‘General-Lee’
Speaking is a monthly newsletter published during the school year and includes up-to-date
information on all the University’s athletic teams. Subscriptions are free and can be made
by sending your name and address to the Sports Information Office, P.O. Drawer 928,

 

 

at

Fall Sports Roundup

 

 

Another strong season
for W&L water polo

Washington and Lee’s varsity water polo
team concluded another successful season by
competing in the Eastern Championships at
Indianapolis, where the Generals compiled a
1-2 record to finish the season with a 26-9
mark overall.

The Generals lost a 12-11 heartbreaker to
Navy and an | 1-9 decision to Harvard in the
Eastern Championships but bounced back to
rout Richmond 20-3.

W&L was led by senior Erik Peterson
(Miami, Fla.), who had 124 goals for the
season. Peterson was followed in the scoring
Statistics by juniors Rand McClain (Miami,
Fla.) and Matt Ravencraft (Reston, Va.) with
81 goals apiece.

Peterson and junior goaltender Kevin
Generals soccer standout Brad Poorman (white jersey) heads upfield under pressure by Lynchburg College oe ee anc to the 2uEast
defenders. second team.

W&L’s 26-9 overall mark included the
team’s second straight Southern League title.
The 26-9 record improved head coach Page
Remillard’s four-year W&L record to 94-35-0.

 

 

 

Cross country team
captures ODAC crown

Junior Angus McBryde (Charlotte, N.C.)
and sophomore Frank Pittman (Atlanta, Ga.)
led Washington and Lee to its first ODAC
cross country championship in November.

McBryde placed second in the 56-runner
field at the ODAC championship meet while
Pittman came in sixth as the Generals scored
45 points to edge defending champion
Roanoke, which had 51.

A week after capturing the ODAC title,
the Generals finished fourth in the NCAA
Division III South Regional Qualifying Meet
where McBryde again led W&L, this time
finishing sixth overall.

 

Junior Matt Ravencraft takes aim on the goal. Dick Miller was ODAC Coach of the Year.

In addition to those late season
performances, the Generals posted an
to the ODAC All-Conference first team. Gettysburg (6-1), and Hampden-Sydney (3- impressive 10-2 dual meet record, tying the
In addition to VMI, the Generals won 1). Ties came with Lynchburg (1-1) and school mark for most victories in the season.
victories over Catholic (5-0), Virginia Eastern Mennonite (1-1) while the losses Head Coach Dick Miller, who completed
Wesleyan (3-0), Haverford (4-2), Mary were to Messiah (2-0), Roanoke (3-2), and his 31st season at the helm, was selected as
Washington (2-1), Maryville (7-1), Radford (3-1) in overtime. the ODAC’s Coach of the Year.

28

 

 

apter News

 

COLUMBUS, OHIO—W&L Professor Thomas L. Schaffer (second from
right) delivered the John F. Sullivan Lecture at Capital University Law School
in Columbus on Nov. 12, 1982. Shown with him are (left to right) Dean
Josiah H. Blackmore of the Capital Law School; Capital Law Professor Ernest
H. Clarke, W&L ’56, ’58L; and Joseph B. Martin, W&L ’49.

MID-SOUTH—Dr. John D. Wilson, new president of the University, talks at
Memphis reception with Mr. and Mrs. J. William McClintock, ’53.
McClintock is a member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

TUCSON. A luncheon meeting at the Lodge on the Desert was
held by the chapter on Oct. 28 to welcome Jim Farrar, ’49, director
of W&L’s Alumni Admissions Program, to the area. Farrar reported
on the current admissions situation at the University and told of the
positive role alumni recruitment is playing in W&L’s successes.
The local AAP representative, Lee Mullin, 58, an active
participant in the program, was responsible for the luncheon
arrangements. During a brief business meeting, Edwin Gaines, ’50,
was elected to succeed his brother, Pendleton, ’39, as president of
the chapter.

SPARTANBURG. A large group of enthusiastic alumni gathered
at the Piedmont Club on Oct. 29 and officially founded an alumni
chapter of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association. Arthur
Cleveland, ’71, was elected president and Dr. Julian Josey, ,’60,
was named secretary-treasurer. The short business meeting included

 

   

 

MID-SOUTH—At reception for new President John W. Wilson at the Memphis

Hunt and Polo Club are C. Penn Owen Ill, ’81; Marshall A. Clark, ’81; Miss
Liz Ruleman; Robert Smithwick, ’84; and Lee M. Hollis, ’86.

 

 

MID-SOUTH—President John D. Wilson converses with 7: Stewart Buxton,
‘36, a trustee emeritus of the University, and with Mr. and Mrs. Gus Morgan,
—o:

a report on the recruitment of students and plans for the future,
including a visit from the new president of Washington and Lee,
Dr. John D. Wilson. After the business meeting the alumni and
their wives and dates enjoyed a nice social including cocktails and
hors d’oeuvres.

MID-SOUTH. Alumni, their wives and dates, and friends joined
at the Memphis Hunt and Polo Club on Nov. 23, and with great
excitement and enthusiasm, welcomed Dr. John D. Wilson, the new
president of the University. The occasion began with cocktails and
hors d’oeuvres, affording the guests an opportunity to meet Dr.
Wilson personally. Dr. Wilson spoke at the dinner that

followed. Fred Ridolphi Jr., °64, the outgoing chapter president,
recognized trustee emeritus J. Stewart Buxton, ’36, and several
other distinguished guests. He also presided at the business meeting
at which the following officers were elected: Thomas F. Baker IV,

29

Chapter News

 

ce

CHICAGO—Among the alumni and friends who attended the Chicago
chapter’ s dinner in October, 1982, were (left to right) Kerford A. Marchant Jr.,
62; Worthington Brown, ’62; Mary Wilson; and James K. Randolph, ’61, ’63L.

 

SAN DIEGO—Helping greet guests at cocktail party attended by Associate
Director of Admissions Van Pate, ’71, were Michelle; Paul Hendry, ’80;
Timothy Brooks, ’80, and John Michaelsen, '64, the host.

*71L, president; Harry J. Phillips Jr., °72, vice president; and
Michael Airheart, °78, secretary-treasurer. Milburn K. Noell Jr.,
"51, associate director of development, gave a status report on the
chapter’s scholarship fund and recognized trustee S L Kopald Jr.,
"43, who added a unique twist to the introductions. He referred
those present to the printed biographical sketch of Dr. Wilson that
had been put at each person’s place and then introduced the Mid-
South Chapter to Dr. Wilson, recalling much of the chapter’s record
of achievement and recognizing many of its distinguished members.
Dr. Wilson’s remarks about Washington and Lee were
enthusiastically received. Bill Washburn, °40, alumni secretary,

was also present. The meeting adjourned with Ridolphi thanking
Milburn Noell and S L Kopald and their wives for making the
outstanding arrangements.

30

 

 

 

LYNCHB URG—Among those making things bright and jolly at the Lynchburg
chapter’ s annual Christmas dance are Billy Giles, ’61, and Lynch Christian
Hf, “76k.

 

SAN DIEGO—Among those enjoying the hospitality of the Michaelsen home
in La Jolla were Jack Norberg, ’80, and Tommy Tift, ’78. The speaker was
Associate Director of Admissions Van Pate.

LYNCHBURG. Under the leadership of Leyburn Mosby, ’62,
"65L, president, the Lynchburg Chapter moved the annual
Christmas dance on Dec. 3 to the city’s new Hilton Inn. A large
gathering of alumni and friends danced to the music of the Johnny
McClenon Big Band, which included Jon Schewel, ’80, playing the
trombone. As always the black tie affair helped put many of
Lynchburg’s leading citizens in the proper holiday mood.

SAN DIEGO. The San Diego chapter held a cocktail party at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. John Michaelsen, ’64, in La Jolla on Dec. 4.
Van Pate, ’71, associate director of admissions, spoke on the status of
W&L’s admissions efforts. During his visit in the area, Pate called
on four secondary schools with favorable results and attended a
brunch arranged by alumni for prospective students.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $115.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $65.00 f.0.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

1920

EMMETT W. POINDEXTER, who holds a Distinguished
Alumnus Award from W&L, continues to conduct an
active law practice in New York City. He expects to
attend the biennial conference of The World Peace
Through Law Center in Cairo, Egypt in September
1983. The Center was started over 20 years ago by the
International Law Committee of the American Bar
Association of which Poindexter was a member. The
theme of the conference will be ‘“The Universal Legal
Principles as a Basis for World Peace.’’ Several
thousand lawyers, law professors, judges and others
interested in issues of international legal concern
from some 140 countries are expected to attend.

SHIRLEY J. ROBBINS, after retiring from law practice
in New York state, now lives in a retirement com-
munity in Clemson, S.C.

1921

MORTON FELSENTHAL of Brownsville, Tenn., has
been named a Paul Harris Fellow by the Rotary
Foundation.

1925

J. W. McDONALD of Memphis, Tenn., continues to
operate a wholesale business covering five states. He
also finds time to enjoy fishing, golf, and other sports.
While at W&L McDonald received 12 varsity letters
in football, baseball, and basketball.

EMMETT W. POINDEXTER (See 1920.)

1925

Dr. M. Curtis LANGHORNE works part-time in the
DeKalb County (Ga.) Unit of the American Cancer
Society. He helps out by filing, keeping records, and
answering the phone. A victim of cancer which is
now arrested, Langhorne is retired after a celebrated
teaching career of 40 years. In addition to being a
former chairman of the psychology department at
Emory University, Langhorne taught at the University
of Wyoming, Washington State University, Central
Connecticut State College, Trinity College in Hart-
ford, and the Hartford College for Women. He is the
founder of the Southeastern and the New England
Psychological Association and has held membership
in 10 other professional organizations.

1926

EMMETT W. MACCOorkKLE Jr. finds it hard to be idle.
In 1969 he retired as president of Airco Pacific but
went immediately into commercial and industrial real
estate from which he retired again in 1980. He is now
writing articles for childrens’ magazines and has been
published in Cobblest One. MacCorkle is an avid
golfer and trout fisherman.

JOHN G. MCGIFFIN JR., a consul emeritus of Den-
mark, lives in Jacksonville, Fla., where he is presi-
dent of McGiffin Co. Inc., a ships agent stevedoring
and warehousing firm. He is also president of Sun-

|

               

 

 

 

         

 

 

 

       

       

 

Belleville

31, 1982, ;
cturing Co. i

     
  

  
 

 

    
  

s to serve as
aware Circle 4

 

 

 

   

 

  
   
 

  

 

Va. He was executive vice president and trust officer
of First Virginia Bank in Narrows, Va.

1942

EDGAR M. BoyD, a member of the W&L Alumni
Board of Directors, is a prominent investment coun-
selor and partner of Baker, Watts & Co. in Baltimore.
Following an outstanding lacrosse career at W&L,
Boyd continued as player and coach for the Mt.
Washington Club, then rated best in the nation. Today
he remains an active sportsman and in 1978 became a
finalist in the National Doubles Clay Court Tennis
Championship for 55 years of age and over. More
recently he and his partner upset the famed ex-pro
Gardner Malloy and his partner in the semi-final
round of the National Grasscourt Doubles Champion-
ship for 60 years of age and over.

1943

JUDGE BEVERLY FITZPATRICK has received the
Brotherhood Citation sponsored by the Roanoke
Valley Chapter of the National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews.

R. GORDON LONG retired in November 1982 after 30
years with Bethlehem Steel Corporation at the Spar-
row’s Point Plant in Maryland.

JAMES S. PARSONS expects to retire in April 1983 and
move to Rockbridge County, Va. He presently is
principal research chemist, chemical research division
of American Cyanamid Company.

1944
LEON Harris Jr. retired as principal of Manning
High School in Manning, S.C., in June 1981. He
currently lives on Lake Marion and teaches at Claren-
don Hall, a private school in Summerton, S.C.

ROBERT C. MEHORTER retired in December 1982
after 35 years with The Home Insurance Co. He lives
in Westfield, N.J.

GRANT E. Mouser III is presently the American
consul general in Hamburg, Germany. He is on the
staff of Ambassador Arthur Burns and is responsible
for U.S. interests in four states of north Germany.

1946

Dr. GEORGE C. Morris JR. is presently a professor
of surgery at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.
He is doing cardiovascular surgery.

SHEPPARD W. ZINOVoy is president of the comple-
ments division of Winston Mills, manufacturer and
distributor of mens, womens, and childrens apparel
in New York City.

1948

JUDGE HowarD M. FENDER of Fort Worth, Texas,
has recently been elected chief justice, Court of

 

J. H. Reese Ir., ’50

Appeals, 2nd District. This is the intermediate ap-
pellate court of general jurisdiction.

TRENT D. SIPLE is retired after 30 years as special
agent with the FBI and over three years with the fifth
circuit’s solicitors office in Columbia, S.C.

BEVERLY FITZPATRICK (See 1943.)

GRANT E. Mouser III (See 1944.)

MARRIAGE: Danié- J. LitTLe and Evelyn Garrett
Smith on Nov. 20, 1982. Little is a practicing attorney
in Chicago.

BEN HADEN, newspaperman, attorney, author, and
pastor can be heard on the national radio and TV pro-
gram Changed Lives. He is in his 16th year as a na-
tional radio speaker. Dr. Haden is pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church in Chattanooga, Tenn. Pre-
viously he had been pastor of the Key Biscayne
Presbyterian Church in Miami.

1950

GERARD A. BURCHELL JR. is teaching biology at the
Spaulding High School in Rochester, N.H.

Dr. JOHN S. CHAPMAN of Dubuque, Iowa, has been
named president elect for the 1983-85 session by the
Iowa Clinical Society of Internal Medicine. His office
equipment includes the only out-of-hospital kidney
dialysis machine in Iowa.

C. WILLIAM Pacy, president of the quasi-public
Market Center Development Corporation in Balti-
more, Md., is to become vice president of David H.
Murdock Development Co., a Los Angeles based
firm which he helped lure to build the downtown
retail district of Baltimore. Prior to his involvement
with Market Center Development Corp., Pacy was an
officer and director of F. H. Durkee Enterprises, a
motion picture theater chain. He is also a co-founder
of the Frontier Town theme park in Ocean City and a
former member of the Baltimore County Liquor
Board. Pacy’s assignment with Murdock will be to
oversee their massive Market Center revitalization
and Inner Harbor hotel-condominium projects.

JOSEPH H. REESE Jr., CLU, president of Provident
Indemnity Life Insurance Co., has been elected to the
additional posts of chairman of the board and chief
executive officer, effective Jan. 1, 1983. Reese came
to Provident Indemnity from the presidency of Reese
and Company Inc., general agents for another life
insurance company. He is a life member of the Million
Dollar Round Table and is past president of the Phil-
adelphia Chapter, American Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters. He is also a former vice chairman
of the Philadelphia Chapter of Young Presidents’
Organization, and a former trustee of Franklin and
Marshall College. Reese is a member of the Union
League. He and his wife, Joan, have five children.

EDWARD P. THOMAS JR. of Frederick, Md., won his
fourth term as a Maryland State Senator from District
3. Thomas is a pro-business legislator who serves on
the Economic Affairs Committee and is Minority
Whip of the Senate.

LEON Harris JR. (See 1944.)

1951

NORFLEET R. TURNER has been named 1982 recipient
of the prestigious Master of Free Enterprise Award
from Junior Achievement. The award recognizes
excellence in business achievement and was presented
at a meeting of the Memphis Rotary Club at the
Peabody Hotel. Turner is chairman of Data Com-
munications Corp., a young company which has
become one of the nation’s leading electronic firms.
Turner began his career with First Tennessee Bank in
1951 then known as First National Bank. He moved
through various departments of the bank and later
became head of the trust department. Turner left the
bank in 1969 to form Data Communications Corp.
More recently the firm has formed the Cylix Com-
munication Corp., a network of earth stations and
satellites to transmit computer data throughout the
nation.

1952

JULIAN B. Monr is owner of Momar Inc. of Atlanta,
Ga., with manufacturing facilities in England, Can-
ada and Africa. The company has recently formed a
Lubest Division, an organization devoted to the de-
velopment, formulation and sale of synthetic lubri-
cants in the form of oils, greases, hydraulic fluids,
and similar materials.

THE REV. BYRON WAITES is serving as pastor of the
Broad Street United Methodist Church in Cleveland,
Tenn.

1953

BRANTLEY F. Barr Jr., formerly with Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. and more recently in business for him-
self as an investment banker for state government
agencies, joined the Morgan Guaranty Bank in New
York City in March 1982.

CLAYTON A. STALLWORTH has been named an exec-
utive vice president of Kanawha Banking & Trust
Co. in Charleston, W.Va. He will be responsible for
the loan division which includes both commercial
and installment loans. The trust department is also
included in his area of responsibility. Stallworth joined
KB&T in 1966 as credit officer and was promoted to
commercial loan officer in 1970 and vice president of
commercial loans in 1971. He became senior vice
president of commercial loans in 1979. Before joining
the bank Stallworth was involved with oil and gas
exploration and production. He is active in various
community and civic affairs and is a member of the
Charleston Board of Zoning Appeals. He is a board
member of the Lawrence Frankel Foundation and
was formerly a board member of Goodwill Industries,

33

 

 

 

 

 

 

O
REGINALD BRACK Jr.
executive officer of T

 

 

 

 

and general counsel for INA Corporation, has recently
become a member of the law firm of O’Connor,
Cavanagh, Anderson, Westover, Killingsworth &
Beshears in Phoenix, Ariz.

JOHN F. MARSHALL JR. was elected executive vice
president of Adams and Porter Associates Inc., an
insurance brokerage firm in Houston.

1966

ALBERT B. BAKER IIL is president of Baker Petroleum
Company in Corpus Christi, Texas.

1967

MARRIAGE: JAMES W. ELLiotT Jr. and Virginia
Kricfalusi on July 31, 1982, in Blowing Rock, N.C.
Elliott is a partner in the law firm of White, Elliott and
Bundy with offices in Bristol and Abingdon, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. RICHARD L. HARDEN, a son,
William Lee, on May 20, 1982. Harden resigned his
partnership in the New York law firm of Winthrop,
Stimson, Putnam and Roberts effective Dec. 1, 1982,
to become a partner in the Dallas firm of Moore and
Peterson.

JAMES D. AwabD is president of BMI Capital, a money
management firm in New York. Although less than
3-years old, BMI manages accounts totalling $90
million.

THE Rev. JAMES H. Cooper, his wife, Tay, and
children, Jimmy and Deborah, are participating in a
three month clergy exchange from Jan. 7 to April 12,
1983, in Guildford, England.

CHARLES C. Hart is an assistant district attorney in
Gadsden, Ala.

RoGeER A. MILAM specializes in fidelity and surety
work for the Nashville law firm of Manier, White,
Herod, Hollabaugh and Smith. He and his wife,
Margy, have a son, Erik.

WILLIAM R. SPHAR IIT is a captain of a DA-20 Falcon
for Federal Express Corp. with whom he has been a
pilot for seven years. For the previous 8 years he flew
A-6 Intruders for the U.S. Navy.

JAMES M. TuRNER JR., vice president of J. M. Turner
& Company construction firm in Roanoke, Va., is
featured in the January 1983 issue of Commonwealth
as one of the 25 Virginians most likely to succeed. He
is general contractor for Center in the Square, or-
ganizer for Great Moments in Music, a program
presented by Roanoke performing art groups last fall.
He is also chairman of the steering committee for the
Roanoke Neighborhood Partnership, and vice presi-
dent of the Science Museum.

1968

RICHARD C. BURROUGHS, Vice president and director
of Harvey Lindsay and Company in Norfolk, Va., a

commercial real estate firm, was featured in the Janu-
ary 1983 issue of Commonwealth as one of 25 Vir-
ginians most likely to succeed. He is a director of
Norfolk Academy, Mary Ballentine Home for Aged,
Armed Forces YMCA, and a former board member
of Tidewater Ronald McDonald House. He is cur-
rently the director of leasing for Norfolk’s waterside
festival market.

N. TAYLOR CARLSON has been promoted to controller
of the telecommunications group with Scientific-
Atlanta Inc.

Dr. MICHAEL J. McCREERY is president of Sports
Equipment Innovations Inc. of Xenia, Ohio. Class-
mate GEORGE R. PARKER III of Flemington, N.J., is
vice president and director of sales for the firm in
addition to serving as vice president of Parker Agency
Inc., a real estate and insurance agency in Flemington.
SEI Inc. manufactures weight training equipment
specifically for heavy trainers such as professional
athletic teams and power lifters. Their first products
were unveiled in November 1982. McCreery earned
his doctorate in chemistry from Emory University.
He lives in Wheaton, Md., with his wife and four
daughters.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JoRGE E. ESTRADA, a daugh-
ter, Ana Maria O’ Toole, on Nov. 25, 1981, in Hous-
ton.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomMaAs W. MULLENIX, a
son, Jeffrey Tyler, on Aug. 28, 1982, in Annapolis,
Md. Mullenix is a personnel analyst specializing in
labor relations and benefits administration for the
Anne Arundel County government.

PATRICK K. AREy has joined the Baltimore law firm
of Miles and Stockbridge where he works primarily
in the field of municipal finance.

Dr. J. GILLUM BuRKE has been accepted into the
American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons. He
practices in Mt. Airy, N.C.

M. KENNETH LONG, Maryland’s deputy state’s at-
torney, was elected state’s attorney-elect in this past
general election. Long was the deputy state’s attorney
since April 1979. He has been on the state’s attorney
staff for three years.

Professor CHRISTOPHER P. MEYER is participating in
an artist and architect collaboration for an exhibition
at the Akron Art Museum which will present some
new concepts for the practical use of urban sites
within a more visually attractive setting. He has also
designed and built a number of play facilities in
northeast Ohio. Meyer is an art professor at the Uni-
versity of Akron.

DaviD T. SHUFFLEBARGER, assistant to the president
for governmental relations at Old Dominion Univer-

sity, has been named acting vice president for univer-
sity advancement. Shufflebarger joined the admini-
stration at Old Dominion University in 1970. He will
also continue his responsibilities for governmental
relations. The position of vice president for university
advancement is a newly created post. Shufflebarger
will be responsible for the offices of alumni, develop-
ment, and public information. Prior to his association
with ODU, Shufflebarger served as director of com-
munications for Virginians for the Constitution, cam-
paign manager for Colvin for Senate, director of
public relations for the Virginia Employment Com-
mission and director of sports information at Virginia
Military Institute. He was also employed as a copy
editor and reporter at The Virginian-Pilot newspaper
and a reporter for the Newport News Daily Press.

Gary D. SILVERFIELD has been named executive
vice president of Stokes and Co., one of the largest
real estate developers in the Southeast. The firm
builds apartments and condominiums in Florida,
Georgia and South Carolina.

ADDISON G. WILSON has resumed his general law
practice with the firm of Kirkland, Taylor, Wilson,
Moore and Allen in West Columbia, S.C. He had
served as deputy general counsel for legal services tor
the Department of Energy and as campaign manager
for Congressman Floyd D. Spence.

Two plays written by KIRK WOODWARD were pro-
duced this holiday season. A Christmas Carol, adapted
with Lorna Hayne, was performed in Cliffwood
Beach, N.J. The Bremen Town Musicians, a play for
children, was done in Fairlawn, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GeorGE Z. BATEH, a daugh-
ter, Deena Janan, on April 9, 1982, in Jacksonville,
Fla.

1971
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. BEAZLIE, a
daughter, Sally Lee, born Jan. 26, 1982, in Hampton,
Va. Beazlie practices internal medicine and nephrol-
ogy there. He and his wife have three other children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD H. CATLIN, a son,
Hampton Harvey, on Sept. 2, 1982. Catlin is a partner
in the Jacksonville, Fla., law firm of Howell, Howell,
Liles, Braddock & Milton.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. C. MINER HARRELL, a son,
Frank Mansfield, on May 18, 1982, in Pensacola,
Fla. Harrell, an attorney, and his wife, Jean, have
two older sons, Chip and Daniel. ©

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXANDER M. NADING JR., a
son, William West, on March 25, 1982, in Birming-
ham. Nading is in the private practice of urology.

MADISON F. COLE Jr. has been promoted to the
position of vice president and manager of the risk

35

in Louisville. 1 ! n his mas
degree in May 1984 and then enter the ordained
ministry. The McCabes also have a son, Brian, 4.

NM. Levine t
; Fitness Ce

 

 

 

 

 

 

Norfolk law firm of Willcox, Savage, Dickson, Hollis
and Eley.

WILLIAM G. OGLESBY, formerly of Richmond, is
now a news reporter for the Roanoke bureau of
WSET-TV.

WILLIAM B. HILL Jr. (See 1974.)

JOHNNY E. Morrison (See 1974.)

1978

MARRIAGE: CHARLES C. STIEFF III and Ann S.
Bruggman on Sept. 25, 1982, in Baltimore. James
Stieff, °74, was best man and classmates Bill Turner,
J. T. Christmas and John Long were ushers. Other
alumni present included Charles Stieff II, ’45, Gideon
Stieff, "52, Maurice Adams, ’78, Frank Brooks, ’46,
Sandy Bishop, ’78, Whit Hauprich, ’78, Phil Held-
rich, ’79, David Kennedy, ’76, Lee Kennedy, ’77,
MacDonald Kennedy, ’80, Henry Lederer, ’49, Jay
Sindler, °78, and Frank Turner, ’77. They live in
Baltimore where Stieff is credit manager for the Kirk
Stieff Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. TRAvIs E. BAss, a daughter,
Elizabeth Seward, on Jan. 3, 1982, in Atlanta. Bass
is an account manager in the fiberboard department of
Georgia Pacific.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KEITH D. BOYETTE, a son,
Nathan Andrew, on Oct. 27, 1982, in Richmond.
Boyette is an associate with the law firm of Hirschler,
Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox and Allen.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. Curtis JRr., a son,
John Herbert III, on Nov. 5, 1982. His uncle is John
F. Watlington III, ’72, and his grandfather is John F.
Watlington Jr., °33. The Curtis family lives in Mem-
phis, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALDG. SMITH JR., ason,
Donald George III, on Sept. 15, 1982, in Richmond.
Smith is a fourth-year student at the Medical College
of Virginia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS C. TERWILLIGER, a
son, Christopher Reed, on Oct. 23, 1982, in Pulaski,
Va. Terwilliger is a partner in the Pulaski law firm of
Terwilliger and Woodhouse.

JOHN S. HUDSON is stationed at the Pentagon where
he is working for the assistant chief of staff for intelli-
gence in the Department of the Army.

1979

THOMAS E. BAYNHAM III graduated from the Univer-
sity of Georgia School of Law in June and has passed
the Georgia State Bar.

J. PETER CLEMENTS is working in the international
department as part of the corporate banking develop-
ment program at Wachovia Bank in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

KEVIN J. COSGROVE is working in the Virginia Beach
city attorney’s office.

PHILIP L. HINERMAN is now an associate with the law
firm of Jenkins, Fenstermaker, Krieger, Kayes and
Farrell in Huntington, W.Va. His specialties are mal-
practice defense and general litigation.

RICHARD F. Huck III is an associate specializing in
business litigation for the St. Louis law firm of Evans
and Dixon.

Davip D. MYLIN is a pilot with the 3rd Tactical
Fighter Squadron at Clark Air Force Base in the
Phillipines.

WILLIAM N. ROPER operates his own home repair
firm, Roper Industries, in Petersburg, Va.

JOHN R. SACKS is a second-year law student at the
University of Baltimore and an advanced ROTC cadet
at Johns Hopkins University.

JAMES R. SHOEMAKER Is an attorney with the Wash-
ington law firm of Doub and Muntzing.

JOHN P. STAFFORD is assistant to the president of
Kerr Engineered Sales Co. in Pittsburgh.

Mark S. TRAVERS completed his active duty with the
U.S. Army in September 1982. He is now a district
sales manager for The Baltimore Sun newspaper.

NeIL J. WELCH JR. is an associate with the law firm
of Whitman and Ransom in Washington.

STEPHEN C. YEVICH has been in Saudi Arabia for the
last year and a half with the revenue accounting
department of the Saudia Airlines. He returned to the
U.S. in time for Christmas.

1980

MARRIAGE: Timotny A. Brooks and Donna Lynn
Malone on Aug. 14, 1982, in Richmond, Va. Jeffrey
T. Powers, ’80, was a groomsman. Classmates in
attendance were Stewart Jackson, Marsh Merriman,
Mike Monaghan, Jack Schewel and Rick Wallerstein
along with Terry Atwood, ’77, Jim Kirby, ’82, and
Nelson Ould, ’82. Brooks spent a year in Chicago as
director of alumni activities for the Sigma Chi Inter-
national Headquarters. The couple resides in Irvine,
Calif., where Brooks is sales manager for the Regis-
try Hotel in charge of corporate, tour and travel and
social group marketing.

MARRIAGE: J. MCDONALD KENNEDY and Caroline
Ellison Shoemaker in June 1982. Taking part in the
wedding were David A. Kennedy, ’76, Lee M. Ken-
nedy, ’77, Gregory Martin, ’80, Scott Graham, ’80,
and David E. Myers, ’80. Other W&L alumni attend-
ing the wedding were: Frank Turner, ’77, Bill Turner,
°78, Maurice Adams, 78, Warren Woodring, 81,
Frederick Forsyth, ’81, Charles Stieff, ’78, Eben
Finney, ’80, Angus Finney, ’80, Steven Smith, 80,
A. A. Dyer III, ’78, Phil Heldrick, ’79, James Lynn,

°78, and Michael McComas, ’79. The groom is em-
ployed by the FBI in Washington, D.C.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD A. MAKEPEACE JR. and Mollie
Seignious on Nov. 27, 1982, in Charleston, S.C.
Classmates in the wedding party were Jeff Bartlett,
Ab Boxley, Fred Moore, Jess Shaver, David Con-
stine; Rob Brooke, 81; and Ben Johns, ’78. Make-
peace is a securities analyst and also an M.B.A.
student at New York University. Makepeace and his
wife work for Donaldson, Lefkin and Jenrette in New
York.

“MARRIAGE: KEN Rosson and Deborah Lynn John-

son on Aug. 14, 1982, in Summit, N.J. Among the
wedding party were classmates Samuel H. Rogers III
and Hugh Montgomery. Those attending the wedding
were: Hallet Gates III, ’80, Hallet Gates Jr., °48,
William S. Ridge, ’80, Richard Stewart, ’78, Jerry F.
Stone Jr., 55, Nicholas W. Teare, 83, and Martin F.
Bowers, *80. The couple now lives in West Holly-
wood, Calif. After a year in New York City, Robson
was promoted by the American International Group,
an insurance firm specializing in underwriting crime,
kidnap, and ransom/extortion insurance, and he is
now in their western regional headquarters in Los
Angeles.

ROBERT B. EARLE graduated from Submarine Officer
School in New London, Conn. He is assigned to the
USS Thomas Jefferson (SSN-618) in Charleston, S.C.
In November 1982, Earle was promoted from ensign
to lieutenant junior grade.

LAWRENCE K. GUMPRICH is a C.P.A. with A. M.
Pullen and Co. in Richmond, Va.

VIRGIL D. MITCHELL Is vice president of R. A. Gray
Inc., manufacturers of theater control systems.

EDWARD C. Morrison is a third-year student at the
Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston.

KEVIN J. Ross had an article published in the Sep-
tember 1982 edition of the Law Enforcement News
entitled ‘‘Establishing Informant Reliability in a
Search Warrant Affidavit.’’ He is in the appellate
division of the Middlesex (Mass.) County district
attorney’s office. Ross is also in charge of assistant
district attorneys who advise law enforcement officers
on search warrant matters.

J. KELLY RYAN plans to take the Texas Bar exam in
February 1983 and practice with a small law firm in
Fort Worth after graduation from the University of
Houston Law School in May.

After graduation from the University of Virginia Law
School in May, THomas A. Wornoo will work as an
assistant district attorney for the Manhattan Burrough
of New York.

1981

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM L. ABERNATHY JR. and Mar-
garet H. Ordoubadian on Oct. 23, 1982, in Murfrees-

37

  

 

 

 

 

   

“Japan Economic Journal, ‘a8 part of p an: 0 be ome
ay worldwide newspay ye

 

JEFFERY M. WALTER is a manager trainee at the
Greenville Dollar Store in Greenville, S.C.

RAND D. WEINBERG is a law clerk to the Honorable
Edward S. Northrop, U.S. district judge for the Dis-
trict of Maryland. Weinberg lives in Baltimore.

ROBERT K. WITTPENN works in the marketing divi-
sion of Rockland Chemical Co., a manufacturer of
agricultural chemicals in West Caldwell, N.J.

EDWARD S. YASTROW is a first-year student at the
University of Chicago Medical School.

 

In Memoriam

 

1910

RUSSELL LEVIN FRINK, former general counsel of the
Florida East Coast Railway and former director of
Florida Publishing Co., died Oct. 28, 1982, in Jack-
sonville, Fla. After practicing law in Jasper for several
years, Frink moved to Jacksonville in 1924 and be-
came the general attorney for the Flagler System.
Fifteen years later, he became general attorney of the
Florida East Coast Railway, a position he held for 20
years. In 1953, Frink became the general counsel for
all Flagler System Inc. interests in Florida, including
the Florida East Coast Hotel Co., the Florida East
Coast Car Ferry Co., and the Model Land Co. He was
a past chairman of the Florida Railroad Association
and a director of the Atlantic and East Coast Ter-
minals. Frink was past president of the Jacksonville
Bar Association and a member of the Florida Bar and
the American Bar Association. He was a past presi-
dent of the Jacksonville Historical Society and the
Florida Historical Society and was a past president of
the Jacksonville and Florida chapters of the Sons of
the American Revolution.

1914

ALEX MAYER Hitz Sr., surveyor general for the
Georgia Department of Archives and History and
longtime partner of the King, Hitz and Partridge law
firm, died Oct. 29, 1982. Hitz joined the surveyor
general’s office in 1951 as an attorney specializing in
gaining land access for highways. He later became
surveyor general and concentrated on acquiring
colonial land grants. A member of the Pershing Puni-
tive Expedition stationed at San Antonio, Texas, Hitz
was sent to Atlanta’s Fort McPherson in 1919. He isa
descendant of John Hitz, the first Swiss consul general
to the United States. Hitz is an honorary life member
of the Piedmont Driving Club, a 50-year member of
the Atlanta Lawyers Club, a member of the Georgia
Bar Association, a former adjutant of the American
Legion Post 134, and a first-degree Mason.

1915

HARRY EDWARD MEEK, one of Arkansas’s best-

known lawyers and the author of many of the state’s
business and banking laws, died Oct. 14, 1982, in
Little Rock. Meek was well known as an animal lover
and was a founder and former president of the Pulaski
County Humane Society. He was admitted to law in
1916 and retired in 1980 as attorney for the State
Banking Department. After graduation from law
school he practiced law in Camden and Stuttgart and
served in the Army during World War I. Meek moved
to Little Rock in 1922 and practiced with the firm of
Robinson, House and Moses. During the Depression
years he was appointed as regional counsel for the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation. He served in
that position from 1931 to 1946 and helped to reor-
ganize approximately 120 banks. The Arkansas Bar
Association named Meek the lawyer of the year in
1962 and the Arkansas General Assembly honored
him in March 1977 when the governor declared a
‘‘Harry Meek Day.’’

1917

DAYTON HOLLIS WALLER, a former director of C. W.
Lane Co. and Giddens-Lane Co., died in Shreveport,
La., Oct. 22, 1982. While at Washington and Lee
Waller was an outstanding baseball player. He entered
the U.S. Navy during World War I and was a member
of the American Legion.

1918

BrIG. GEN. ROBERT VICTOR IGNICO (USAF retired),
who grew up with America’s infant air force and flew
with Gen. Billy Mitchell, died Nov. 15, 1982, in
Belleair Bluffs, Fla. While at W&L Ignico was an
outstanding varsity football player. He was appointed
in May 1917 as an aviation flying cadet. When he
retired 35 years later he was commanding general at
the Warner Robbins AFB near Macon, Ga. During
his service, Gen. Ignico was chief of the supply field
section at Paterson Field in Ohio, 1922; commanding
officer of the Philippine Air Depot, 1924; supply
officer for the Second Wing, Langley Field, Va., and
its assistant executive officer, 1929; supply officer
for the San Antonio, Texas Air Depot, 1932-36;
supply and maintenance officer at Mitchell Field,
N.Y., 1937. Gen. Ignico was head of the air service
command at Wright Field, Ohio, until 1942 when he
was named commanding general for the 1 Ith service
command, operating in the Aleutian Islands. He was
named commanding general at Warner Robbins AFB
in December 1945 and served until his retirement in
January 1952. His decorations include the Victory
Medal, Asiatic Pacific Medal with Bronze Star,
American Defense Ribbon with Bronze Star, Legion
of Merit with two Oak Leaf Clusters, and Commen-
dation Ribbon and Asiatic Pacific with two Oak Leaf
Clusters.

1921

JOHN FRANKLIN BAIN, retired president and owner of
the Bain Peanut Co., a peanut shelling firm in Albany,
Ga., died March 28, 1982. Bain was a past president
of the Albany Rotary Club, past chairman of the
Dougherty County Board of Education, and a past
member of the board of directors of the YMCA.

JAMES EDWARD MOYLER, a prominent attorney who
began practice in Franklin, Va. in 1921, died Feb. 8,
1982. He was senior partner of the firm of Moyler,
Moyler, Rainey & Cobb. Moyler had served on im-
portant legislative commissions under mandate from
the governor and General Assembly of Virginia and
many pertained to the study of curricula in schools.
He served on the history, government, and geography
text book commissions charged with responsibility
and supervision in writing those text books now used
in public schools. Moyler was also quite active in
public speaking and lecturing. He served as a W&L
class agent for the law class of 1921 for many years.

1923

FRANCIS ELDRIDGE HUFF, a veteran of World War I
and a retired linotype operator of the Raleigh, N.C.,
News and Observer, died in Roanoke, Va., Dec. 14,
1982. After leaving W&L, Huff was in the wholesale
grocery business in Roanoke for several years and
then went with Standard Oil Co. and the wholesale
distribution of petroleum for 15 years. He entered the
printing business in 1937. After he retired from the
News and Observer he returned to Roanoke in 1973.

JUDGE I. H. STREEPER III of Alton, Ill., who held a
long and distinguished record as a lawyer, judge,
legislator, businessman and civic and church leader,
died Nov. 1, 1982. At the time of his death Streeper
was still a member of the board of directors of Alton
Banking & Trust Co., where he had served as counsel
for 25 years, and of the advisory board of St. An-
thony’s Hospital. After graduation from W&L, he
returned to Alton for the practice of law. He was one
of the founders of the Greater Alton Association of
Commerce and served as its first president for two
consecutive terms. Streeper was the first person in
Illinois to serve on the National Board of Control of
the Exchange Club. He was a member of the first Boy
Scout troop in Alton. In 1957 Streeper was selected
as “‘Boss of the Year’’ by Alton Chapter of Profes-
sional Secretaries International. Streeper’s long legal
and legislative career included service as first assistant
state’s attorney of Madison County, as a member of
the Illinois General Assembly, Illinois Assistant At-
torney General and Master in Chancery of the City
Court of Alton. He was elected judge of Alton’s city
court in 1952 and became an associate circuit judge
and later a circuit judge of the Third Judicial Circuit.
He retired in 1972.

1924

JOHN EARMAN BRYAN, who for many years was
assistant to the president for the Staunton National
Bank in Staunton, Va., died Jan. 9, 1982. Bryan had
been secretary of the Staunton Masonic Lodge for 20
years.

ALBERT MAURICE PICKUS, the owner of a group of
motion picture theatres and a real estate developer in
Stratford, Conn., died June 12, 1982. From 1959 to
1961 Pickus was president of the Theatre Owners of
America.

39

 

 

 

 

Spring Sports Schedule

 

 

 

LACROSSE

2—Duke
6—Chesapeake Club
12—Navy
19—Maryland
26—Towson State
30—Delaware
12—William & Mary
|7—Virginia
23—North Carolina
30—S yracuse
4—Roanoke
7—Hampden-Sydney
14—Baltimore
18—-NCAA Tourn. Quarterfinals
21—NCAA Tourn. Semifinals
28—-NCAA Tournament Finals

TRACK

12—Davidson
19—Richmond Relays
22—Bridgewater

HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
TBA
TBA
Rutgers

HOME
Away
Away

25—Newport News, Emory & Henry HOME

29—Roanoke, Eastern Mennonite

15—-Lynchburg, Eastern Mennonite

23—Mt. St. Mary’s Relays
30—ODAC Championships

TENNIS

11—U. of Rochester
12—Millersville St.
16—Emory & Henry

1 7—Bloomsburg State

18—Christopher Newport
19—University of Richmond

2 1—Roanoke
24—Slippery Rock State
25—George Washington
26—Randolph-Macon
26—Harvard

28—James Madison
29—V.M.I.
30—SUNY-ALBANY
12—Stetson
13—Rollins

15—West Georgia

Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME
HOME

Away
HOME

Away
Away

HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME

Away

Away
_ Away

 

 

Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

16—Emory

| 7—Davidson
19—Lynchburg
21—Hampden-Sydney
25—Virginia

29—

30 ODAC Championships
4—Radford

12-

14—NCAA Championships

BASEBALL

| 1—West Virginia
15—Virginia Wesleyan
17—V.M.I.
19—Emory & Henry
22—Bridgewater
24—Randolph-Macon
26—Lynchbu
28—Lock Haven State
9—Eastern Mennonite
11—William & Mary
14—Catholic
16—Maryville
19—Lynchburg
21—Bridgewater
23—-Hampden-Sydney
30—ODAC Tournament
3—V.M.I.
4—Newport News Apprentice
5—U. of Richmond
7—Christopher Newport

GOLF

1 1—U. of Rochester
17-
18—James Madison Invitational
22—Bluefield
25—Bridgewater, Shepherd,
Hampden-Sydney
15-
16—Virginia Tech
19—Longwood, Newport News,
| Bridgewater

25-

26—ODAC Championships

Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away

Away
Away

Away

HOME
Away
Away

HOME |

Away
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME

HOME

Away
HOME

HOME
Away
Away

HOME

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
USPS 667-040

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

037556

SALFOUR

RD

VA

YANIEL 7

[

MR

211 RALSTON
RICHMOND
23229

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

