THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA. 24456

 
     
 
 
    

 

: : SEP 5 1999
The Alumni Magazine

of Washington and Lee
August 1988

 

Arch,
075,755
v.63

No. 3

 

“_—

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 63, Number 3, August 1988

 

ANNE COUuLLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHaAw, Assistant Editor
CHRISTOPHER DEIGHAN, Class Notes Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

W. Dan McGrew, ’52, President
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN D. KLINEDINST, ’71, ’78L, Vice President
San Diego, Calif.

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

DANIEL T. BALFourR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.
C. HOwARD CaPITO, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.
JOHN A. COCKLEREECE JR., ’76, ’79L
Winston-Salem, N.C.
JAMES J. DAwson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.
G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
Shreveport, La.
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
Staunton, Va.
CLAY T. JACKSON, ’76
Nashville, Tenn.
ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas
JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.
EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., ’61, ’63L
Cleveland, Ohio
THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 758, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio
J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
Baltimore, Mad.
EuGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
Philadelphia, Pa.
JOHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72
Tampa, Fla.
CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.
WILLIAM E. SMITH JR., 63
Birmingham, Ala.
WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79
Little Rock, Ark.
RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in August, November, February, and May by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450.
All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington
and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at
Cincinnati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1988 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

 

 

Continuity and Change

 

The Good Years

 

12

Cries for Beloved Countries

 

16

The New Plague

 

21

A Magnificent Gift

 

22

The W&L Gazette

 

26

The Bookshelf

 

27

Generals’ Report

 

31

Alumni News

 

36

Class Notes

 

had

In Memoriam

 

47

And Furthermore

 

On The Cover: This ensemble of student flute players performs
in the gatehouse section of the newly completed Gaines Residence
Hall as part of the festivities marking the building’s dedication.
Photograph by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

ontinuity and Change

 

Class of ’88 Joins the Ranks of W&L Alumni

 

President Wilson addresses the graduates.

espite overcast skies and ominous
I) clouds blowing in from the west,

Washington and Lee once again
demonstrated its uncanny ability to elude the
rain as 30S seniors received their bachelor’s
degrees during commencement exercises
June 2.

In fact, the clouds provided welcome
relief from the oppressive heat that had ac-
companied the previous day’s baccalaureate
service. Temperatures in the low 80s made
the outdoor commencement ceremony
relatively comfortable for the black-robed
graduates and the throng of friends and
relatives who had gathered on the Front
Campus.

In his remarks to the graduates, W&L
President John D. Wilson singled out the
seniors’ parents for special recognition.
**You have watched children become adults

2 W&L

by Brian D. Shaw

 

in four short years—and along the way you
fathers and mothers have become smarter
and smarter,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘In that
freshman year, you knew almost nothing and
every suggestion you made was scornfully
and decidedly square. But I trust in these
months, as post-baccalaureate anxieties
become more acute, your counsel, not sought
after for many years, has become valued
again.”’

Wilson told the class, which included
four women undergraduates who transfer-
red to W&L, what he hoped they would take
with them from their years at Washington
and Lee.

The first of those is ‘‘a scrupulous
adherence to the canons of honesty and per-
sonal integrity.’’ ‘‘This is, I think, the domi-
nant, the most lasting of things you will have
learned here,’’ he said. ‘‘The honor system

appears austere to many outside of this com-
munity. We are gratuitously reminded every
year that there is more ambiguity in the
world than a single sanction can possibly
reflect—that there are degrees of culpabili-
ty which cry out to be recognized, that there
ought to be a measure of compassion to
temper the harshness of expulsion. You have
heard these arguments and you have quietly
replied that trust is not divisible and that you
prefer to live and work in a community
where trustworthiness overarches everything
else. ...

“Second, I hope you have acquired a
deep and lasting love and respect for learn-
ing. This is another way of saying I hope you
have been able to go beyond industry, self-
discipline, and sheer effort to experience the
great joy of discovering how something im-
portant or complex really works. That
doesn’t happen everyday, and it doesn’t hap-
pen to everyone.’’

Finally, Wilson said, ‘‘I hope you leave
having acquired a new and higher standard
of excellence against which you are now
prepared to measure yourself and others. We
are these days much preoccupied in America
with notions of quality, with recapturing our
reputation, as a people, for producing good
and useful things that perform as they are
meant to and last a satisfactory length of
time. And that is very, very important, I
think—one of the things most important for
our society, but also important to each one
of us, individually.’’

During the ceremony, Washington and
Lee conferred honorary degrees upon one
former student and two friends of the
University.

The recipients were Leon Bates, a con-
cert pianist and professor at the University
of Delaware; Philippe C. Labro, ’58, French
journalist and author; and Paul F. Miller Jr.,
a founder of the investment banking firm
Miller, Anderson & Sherrerd.

A native of Philadelphia, Bates began his
formal study of music at the age of 6. He
has appeared at Carnegie Hall, Jordan Hall
in Boston, the Kennedy Center, the Academy

 

a

 

 

 

i 7

_ an apenmnnnrtiie,

Be

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

    

   

 

 

 

-
3

 

ee te

 

 

&
os

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

;

ee

iz

tee
a

si

pi

 

 

 

 

‘
‘ie
oN
7
’
“*
oy
rr
cer re
eet eT ee

 

 

 

Wise, Stewart, Washburn Retire

 

Wise

Stewart

wo Washington and Lee professors

and one member of the admini-
stration retired at the end of the academic
year.

Robert Stewart, professor of music;
John H. Wise, professor of chemistry; and
William C. Washburn, associate director
of development and former alumni
secretary, were recognized during
undergraduate commencement exercises.

Stewart joined the W&L faculty in
1954. He holds three master of music
degrees—in music education, violin, and
composition—from the American Conser-
vatory in Chicago. He taught at the
American Conservatory and Arkansas
State Teachers College before coming to
Washington and Lee.

A prolific composer, Stewart has
penned works for orchestra, string or-
chestra, vocal ensemble, and a myriad of
instruments. He received special recogni-
tion at the International Symposium of
Contemporary Music for Brass In-
struments in Montreux, Switzerland, and
the best composition award from the
Georgia State College Symposium in 1966
and 1972.

A graduate of Haverford College and
Brown University, Wise taught at Brown

 

Washburn

and Stanford University before joining the
W&L faculty in 1953. He has conducted
extensive research in the areas of high-
resolution atomic spectroscopy, classifica-
tion of atomic spectra, and computer pro-
gramming for date reduction of spec-
troscopic plates.

He is a member of the American
Chemical Society, the American Physical
Society, and the Virginia Academy of
Science.

Washburn graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1940 and was
employed by the Bethlehem Steel Corp.
and Gulf States Paper Corp. before being
named W&L alumni secretary in 1958.
Under his leadership, the number of W&L
alumni chapters more than doubled and
the University’s reunion program was
greatly expanded. He also instituted a
special three-day alumni conference
designed to keep alumni informed about
university affairs, a series of awards given
annually to distinguished alumni, and the
W&L alumni college.

He retired in 1982 and became
associate director of development, with
responsibility for the University’s planned
giving program. For the last three years he
has also served as women’s tennis coach.

 

 

W&L

of Music in Philadelphia, and W&L’s own
Lee Chapel. He has also performed as a
soloist with the National Symphony, the
Philadelphia Orchestra, the New Orleans
Philharmonic, and the Orchestre Sympho-
nique de Quebec.

In his remarks to the graduates, Wilson
urged them to recognize Bates’ ‘‘consum-
mate artistry and imposing artistic pres-
ence.’’

**But think, too,’’ Wilson continued, ‘‘of
the enormous self-discipline of the man, of
the countless hours of lonely practice, of the
years and years of study, of the drive and
ambition that kept him going against the very
long odds facing anyone who would try to
have a life in music. There is moral courage
at work in the success he has achieved, in ris-
ing up after disappointment to earn the ac-
claim of the world.’’

He received a doctor of fine arts degree.

Labro, who attended Washington and
Lee from 1954 to 1956 on a Fulbright
scholarship, is the author of L’etudiant
etranger (The Foreign Student), which spent
30 weeks atop the best-seller list in France.
He is the founder of Radio Tele Luxembourg
(RTL), France’s largest radio network.

Of Labro, Wilson told the graduates to
‘think of his life of constantly new
challenges—in mastering the intricacies of
national and international politics, in the
making of world-class films, in fulfilling so
well his dominant role in Western European
communications, in his unending quest to
learn something more about human nature
and human affairs and to share what he has
learned with countless others.”’’

He received a doctor of humane letters
degree.

A graduate of the Wharton School at the
University of Pennsylvania, Miller has been
a director of the Berwind, Enterra, and Yar-
way corporations and chairman of the
finance committee for the Mead Corporation
and the Rohm and Hass Co. He is a trustee
and chairman of the investment committee
and a member of the education and culture
committee of the Ford Foundation.

Wilson told the graduating seniors to see
in Miller ‘‘a man who has enjoyed enormous
success in the world of business and finan-
cial affairs and who has done so by keeping
at the forefront of his mind the needs of his
clients and the equitable treatment of his
associates.”’

He received a doctor of laws degree.

Commencement was also a time to single
out members of the class of 1988 for special
recognition.

By virtue of his grade-point average of
4.053 on a 4.333 scale, Gregory D. Russell
of Pomona, N.Y., was named class valedic-

 

 

 

 

 

wii oe

Above, undergraduates wend their way t

  

 

hrough the Colonnade (left), while law graduates (center) listen to the remarks of speaker Lewis Powell (right).

Below, honorary degree recipients Labro, Miller, and Bates assemble prior to the ceremony (left), and proud parents and friends look for that perfect shot.

torian. A mathematics major, Russell receiv-
ed the bachelor of arts degree summa cum
laude. He was a member of the wrestling
team, served as president of Phi Eta Sigma
(the freshman honor society), and was
named to Phi Beta Kappa.

John M. Gorlowski was awarded the
Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion, which
is voted by the faculty to a graduating senior
who excels in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and disinterested
service to others. Gorlowski majored in
biology and is a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa. He was captain of the football team,

head dormitory counselor, and a member of
the Student Affairs Committee.

During his commencement remarks, stu-
dent body president Bradley B. Root of Fair-
view, Pa., commended his classmates for
their achievements, and he reminded his
fellow graduates of the value of their
Washington and Lee education.

‘‘Washington and Lee University prides
itself on being a unique educational institu-
tion,’’ Root said. ‘‘We are small but our
ideals are large. The campus is nationally
recognized for the green lawns, the red
bricks, and the white pillars. There is the

spirit of a large family that pervades W&L,
while most other schools today perform like
a business. Our commitment to honor is
firm. We have maintained a single-sanction
and student-administered honor system for
more than 120 years.

‘‘Our work is our Own, we represent
ourselves truthfully, and personal property
is generally safe on campus. As students we
enjoy unparalleled academic and social
freedom. ... We can participate in the
classroom and talk openly and freely with
our professors.... We are steeped in
history and should be proud of this history.”’

W&L 5

 

 

The day before commencement,
honorary degree recipient Labro gave the ser-
mon for the traditional baccalaureate service
in Evans Dining Hall. In his remarks, Labro
wondered whether contemporary society was
ready for the challenges that await it in the
21st century.

‘*It is easy for anybody who has taken
a thorough look at the world and who has
traveled a little to paint a dark picture of
civilization,’’ he said. ‘‘But I believe a solu-
tion can be found to what is termed ‘the
crisis.” In the Chinese language the word
‘crisis’ is spelled the same graphic way as the
word ‘chance.’ A crisis is a chance. Mankind
does have the capacity and the ingenuity to
deal with it. And institutions like this Univer-
sity are ideal places in which to reflect on the
problem and seek the right keys with which
to open the doors for a new century... .

‘*Knowledge does provide us with the
possibility of achieving truth and justice.
Einstein once said, ‘The most incomprehen-
sible thing about the world is that it can be
understood.’ The wonderful thing about
spiritual and intellectual values is that they
make it possible to understand the world.
The spirit of the law, scientific progress, the
help brought about by psychology, the

6 W&L

knowledge of our environment, respect for
one’s fellow creatures—all these are essen-
tial and invaluable weapons and elements
which schools like ours painstakingly instilled
in us, so that we can make a contribution to
a world in which development means more
than mere material progress.

‘History, the weight of the past, the
thinking of the humanists, philosophers, and
writers—all this has slowly penetrated you
and enriched you in the same way as rain
enriches the earth. Knowledge and culture
are far more than mere words, always pro-
vided they are accompanied by the spirit of
fraternity and reduction of our own
selfishness.”’

Eleven days before undergraduate com-
mencement, the Washington and Lee School
of Law assembled on the Front Campus on
a Sunday afternoon to award juris doctor
degrees to 117 students. The principal
speaker for the event was retired U.S.
Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.,
29, °31L.

Powell urged the law graduates to apply
themselves to community service and to help-
ing others who might fall through the cracks
of the legal system.

**Lawyers have a duty—a public as well

as a professional responsibility—to do a
great deal more than make money,”’ he said.
“*T am sure you have been taught here that
you have a responsibility to represent in-
digents. This includes the kind of pro bono
services rendered by legal societies, including
accepting appointment to defend indigent
persons accused of crime.’’

Powell suggested the new graduates
become involved in activities of the American
Bar Association ‘‘to improve and maintain
professional competency”’ and that they
become involved in other community
activities.

“‘. always have been proud to be a
lawyer. Each of you should also be proud.
We are privileged in this country to have in-
dependent courts, state and federal. Jointly
with these courts, lawyers share the privilege
and the responsibility of preserving liberties,
and the rights, guaranteed by our Constitu-
tion. I know of no other calling with a
greater opportunity to serve the public
good.’’

During the law school exercises, the John
W. Davis Prize for Law was awarded to
Heather Ann King of Lower Burrell, Pa., for
maintaining the highest grade-point average
in the class.

Les Belles Annees

 

The Foreign Student Remembers His Years at W&L

 

was particularly honored to be

asked to be the keynote speaker of this

reunion, because I don’t think I am
a very typical product of the 1958 class or
any of the other classes that are represented
here. I was different from you. I was French.
I had just arrived from Europe. I had not
chosen to come here; I had been chosen by
the anonymous members of an international
board. So in a way I came here quite by
chance.

But even so, even if my background was
different from yours, I don’t think there is
any doubt that we all feel the same way about
Washington and Lee now. And I am sure
that you have a lot of cherished memories,
as I do, and that we are all brothers in the
same souvenir.

We all felt the same initial thrill in that
glorious autumn of 1954 of seeing this
beautiful campus laid out before us like a red
and white jewel on a green velvet mantle;
when we first set eyes on those harmonious
buildings with their graceful lawns; when we
were charmed by the delicious fragrance of
the trees and the flowers.

To all of us there was the first excitement
of meeting all the other students, getting ac-
quainted with a system that we had chosen
and that, for my part, I was glad to accept.
It was based on three simple rules. One was
the way of dressing and it was called con-
ventional dress. You wore a coat and a tie,
and you got to like it.

The second rule was the speaking tradi-
tion. You said ‘‘Hi’’ to all those you met on
campus and they said ‘‘Hi’’ to you. And it
became a very lovely habit because it was
based on courtesy to others. But more im-
portant still was the third rule, which was

 

Philippe Labro attended Washington and Lee
from 1954 to 1956 on a Fulbright grant. A prom-
inent French journalist and filmmaker, he is the
author of L’etudiant etranger (The Foreign Stu-
dent), a novel based on his years at W&L, which
spent 30 weeks at the top of the best-seller list in
France. He gave this talk during spring alumni reu-
nions in May.

by Philippe C. Labro, ’58

based on the principle of honor and hones-
ty and was called the Honor System, and I
know it still works today, and well at that,
from what I hear.

As the seasons and the years went by (it
was four years for you, and it was two for
me) life here became a whole new world.
Whether we knew it or not at the time those
were, if you will pardon the cliche, the best
years of our youth. There was the compa-
nionship of the fraternities, the camaraderie.
There was the visiting of the girls’ colleges
on Saturday nights—Hollins, Southern Sem,
Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon—and the
sheer excitement of it all, because we were
still very young and very innocent.

There was going off with two or three
friends to that old State Theatre run by the
famous Mr. Daves to see the first Burt Lan-
caster or Marlon Brando movies in black and
white, and then new color movies with James
Dean or Elvis Presley. And there was another
theatre, the Lyric, also known as the Iron
Pit. (God knows why.) There was that
juvenile vanity that made us all troop off to

 

Earl N. Levitt’s Store and buy the same shirts
and the same ties to make sure that we all
looked alike.

There was rooting for a football team
that may not have won many games, but they
had plenty of guts all the same and they were
genuinely amateur. This was the first year
of non-subsidized football and it had created
quite a controversy. But the basketball team
that year, I remember, spread terror all over
the South. It was led by a great champion,
Dom Flora, whom we admired even more
because he was a member of our class. He
was a freshman like us, and we shouted
ourselves hoarse for that five in the small
Doremus Gymnasium.

I haven’t forgotten the other names on
that famous team: Barclay Smith, Barry
Storick, Lee Marshall, Milt Winawer, Gary
McPherson, Bob McHenry, and a boy
named Buck Schulick, of whom I have often
thought over the years. That year, the
Cagers, as they called themselves, had their
first winning season since 1947 and boy, we
were proud of that.

W&L 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

&L

 

There were so many other things besides,
sO many sensations, colors, sounds, smells,
that stayed fixed in our memories and got
stronger and more important as the years
went by. All this is called nostalgia. Nostalgia
is something you feel more as you get older.
The further away you get in your careers and
in your private lives from those privileged
years, the more poignant and intense the
nostalgia becomes.

But the charm of Virginia, the jokes we
shared at the Co-op or in the freshman dorm,
the songs sung by the Sazeracs, the memories
of Fancy Dress Ball or spring dances, the
happy or unhappy love stories with our
dates, are only part of the story of what is
behind the feeling of having a deep personal
bond with the school, both a physical and
a spiritual bond. For underlying all those
memories is principally the education we
received here, which instilled in us the lasting
affection and respect for the place.

Names of professors come to mind, of
course, like Tom Riegel, like Dean Leyburn
or Dean Gilliam, and the legendary Rupert
Latture. Then there was Paxton Davis, who
along with Riegel taught me journalism.

There was James Farrar, who was assis-
tant dean of students, Frank Parsons,
publicity director at the time, Jay Cook,
John Wise, Keith Shillington, Ed Atwood,
Marshall Fishwick, George Foster, Arthur
Borden, Marion Junkin, John Wheeler, Ed
Hamer (he was the only one that I didn’t
really get to know much because he taught
French, and the only thing I didn’t want to
learn was French).

There was Bill Pusey, Francis Drake,
William Bean, William Jenks, Charles
Turner, who taught me some elements of the
history of the Civil War. I remember Chuck
Turner vividly. I have an image of him, his
books fiercely held against his chest as if to
retain the rage and the passion he had to
teach us the great moments and the great
movements of history. Thanks to him,
thanks to this will to teach, I understood bet-
ter the element of holiness that clouds your
much embattled land.

Some of those professors were older;
some were younger; some were more ap-
proachable than others. Some had particular
mannerisms that we mocked with the
characteristic insolence and intolerance of
youth. There were the ones who were
notorious for giving low grades, and getting
a B from some teachers was about as hard
as climbing Mount Everest.

But there was one thing all of them had
in common, it seems to me, and that was that
they loved teaching us. Their doors were
always open, and so were their minds. The
message they were trying to get across was

the bearer of ancient traditions of a tolerant
liberal view of humanity, laced with a few
basic precepts like the pursuit of excellence
and the fundamental importance of general
knowledge. In a word, all the things that
Allan Bloom’s best seller 30 years later be-
moans the absence of, all the values that the
incoherent forces of fashion and quick pro-
fit have gone a long way to destroying.
Bloom talks about the closing of the
American mind. But what Washington and
Lee was doing in those days was precisely
devoting itself to the opening of the
American mind. And there is no reason why
I should speak in the past tense, because I
am convinced that Washington and Lee still
practices that same religion. I have been here
only a day or so, but from what I judged this
morning in meetings with different classes,
it seems that the same high standard of
education is maintained in 1988 as it was in

1954.
| now a few words about myself,
because I am sure many of my ex-
periences will strike a similar chord in you.
It often seemed to me when I first came to
Washington and Lee that I had set foot in
the land of the blessed. I had been used to
French high school, or /ycee, where stan-
dards were high but where it was still very
difficult to cross the traditional barriers be-
tween teacher and pupil, and here I was on
a campus where fences simply didn’t exist.
And I mean material fences. Our schools in
France were fenced—with iron fences. I
looked around this place, and it simply
wasn’t fenced.

Wherever I had been before I was aware
of social differences, differences of wealth
and education, and here it seemed to me that
basically we were somehow all equal. We all
had to obey the same rules; we all had the
same rights, one of which was the right to
a good start in life, which this school was
helping to give us. The idea was not simply
to become smart and astute and ready to
make it in life and in business. The idea was
and still is to mold us into a certain kind of
human being.

There was no shyness or shame in want-
ing to become a gentleman. Being a
gentleman did not mean wearing the right tie
or being neatly dressed. It meant and it
means trying to rise a little above mediocri-
ty or ambition. It meant being able to stand
up to the ideals that your founding fathers
shaped your nation with. Now of course it
wasn’t all clear sailing. There were conven-
tions, traditions, and customs I had a hard
time with, but I quickly realized it was up
to me to adapt to the system. That uncom-

hope you will forgive me if I say

promising individualism that French people
are known for ran up against its first obstacle
here, but it served as a very valuable lesson,
which is that there are other people in the
world and that they count and that you can-
not just go through life behaving as if no one
else mattered except yourself.

On the first floor of the dorm in a room
I shared with another foreign student there
were plenty of those other people, and they
came in and talked for hours and gave me
their friendship. They would invite me to
their homes for Christmas vacation and
would make me feel part of the family, and
I can tell you it makes quite a difference
when you are 3,000 miles away from home,
especially at the age of 18.

 

Wherever I had been
before I was aware of
social differences, dif-
ferences of wealth and
education, and here it
seemed to me that basical-
ly we were somehow all
equal. We all had to obey
the same rules; we all had
the same rights, one of
which was the right to a
good start in life. ... The
idea was not simply to
become smart and astute
and ready to make it in
life and business. The idea
was and still is to mold us
into a certain kind of
human being. 7

 

I can still recall the names and faces of
those boys. One of them was Uncas
McThenia. Uncas fascinated me not because
his West Virginia accent was as thick as my
French acccent, but because he chewed
tobacco for all the world like one of the
original settlers in West Virginia. For an
18-year-old to chew tobacco seemed like
quite a feat to the Parisian that I was. I also
remember another boy on that hall, a lovely
man named Bob Maxwell.

John Hollister, Farris Hotchkiss, Lew
John, Ken Sadler, Kent Russell, Dan Cox
(who was a pretty good football player), Bob
Banks, Tom Branch, Phil Brown. To me
they were all like one large family that made

W&L 9

 

 

What an opportunity that was; what a unique ex-
perience! Being thrown into an atmosphere like that in
a foreign country, where I had to make an effort to
understand and speak the language, to be accepted,
and to fit in, certainly did a lot to help me to grow
up... . This is the place where I learned to adopt a
certain set of ethics, a certain manner to exercise my
thinking and to broaden my knowledge of mankind, a

way to deal with time.

 

up for the one I had left behind in France.
And the teachers, especially the Riegels and
the Davises, Latture, Bill Atkinson, Bill
Leverty, and a very fine gentleman, a
librarian, called Henry Coleman. They were
father figures to me, or perhaps ‘‘uncle’’
would be nearer to the point.

There was no shortage of mothers either,
thanks to the housemothers in the various
fraternities I was very kindly invited to. Since
I was not eligible to belong to a house myself,
the Interfraternity Council came up with the
brilliant idea of having each of the 14 or 16
houses invite me for lunch or dinner over
three or four consecutive weeks, which
meant that within a year I had met all the
students and gradually got to know the dif-
ferences between one house and another.

As I remember those houses, they were
warm; they were well organized and clean
and boisterous on weekend nights and
mysteriously silent on weeknights. There was
not one house where I did not find a new
friend, did not share a joke, did not learn
something new.

My travels through those frat houses
enabled me to meet and to like so many peo-
ple, so many personalities, and to take in
many different accents, because although
most of those boys naturally came from the
South there were also young men from the
four corners of the United States, and
without my realizing it at the time it put me
in touch with a very real cross section of what
American society was like in the ’50s.

What an opportunity that was; what a
unique experience! Being thrown into an at-
mosphere like that in a foreign country,
where I had to make an effort to understand
and speak the language, to be accepted, and
to fit in, certainly did a lot to help me to grow
up. As a result adult life would be much
easier for me in later years, because this is
the place where I learned to adopt a certain
set of ethics, a certain manner to exercise my
thinking and to broaden my knowledge of
mankind, a way to deal with time.

10 W&L

The school and the South and its peculiar
rhythm gave us a certain approach to time.
Not to hurry: speed is not always of the
essence, even in a country where speed and
success are king and queen. You have to
learn to take time to make the right decisions,
to ponder your choices.

hen I went back to France I
felt a bit like a foreigner in my
own country. The school had

given me a more open, more energetic, and
yet more courteous behavior that did not ex-
actly correspond to that of my contem-
poraries at home. At first I had a hard time
readjusting to my own civilization, and I am
afraid for a while this only served to beef up
the already massive dose of arrogance and
conceit that I know was occasionally a source
of irritation to some people here on this
campus.

In your country I was ‘‘Frenchie.’’ In
France I became ‘‘L’Americain.’’ And it has
had a deep influence on my life, on the
choices I made, the things I did well at, and
the things I did badly at. But there are prob-
ably many of you in this room who can ut-
ter the same truth about yourselves, that for
better and for worse Washington and Lee
made them.

One day all this resulted in a desire to set-
tle accounts once and for all with my own
past and try to analyze why I became the per-
son that I am. That was why I decided to
write a book. If you read it, please remember
that it is a work of fiction, and like any other
novelist I have made up anecdotes,
characters, and love stories, and all readers
must judge those things for themselves as
they would with any other fictional work.
What I did want to put in, though, and that
I didn’t make up at all was what I have been
trying to express to you here: the charm, the
beauty, the traditions, and the spirit of the
school.

I was very proud of the success of this
novel in France. In fact, it sold more copies

than any book I had ever written before.
What I had wanted to do when I wrote it,
among other goals, was to pay tribute to that
precious gift America had given me: the gift
of hospitality, guidance, harmony, that
enabled me to start off on the right foot. My
family, my friends, and I found a sort of
justice in the success of this novel, because
it was my way of saying thanks 30 years later
to all the people who had been good to me,
who had invited me to their homes, who had
shown unending patience in putting up with
all my faults, who had helped in the shap-
ing of my mind and the blossoming of my
capacities and to whom I owe something, in
part at least, for anything worthwhile I may
have accomplished in what has been already
a very full life.

I have always had the notion that people
are conditioned first and foremost by their
childhood and by the influence of the fami-
ly circle, and that certainly is the case as far
as I am concerned. But the second fun-
damental influence in my life was the ex-
perience of spending two years in a small col-
lege, way out in a beautiful valley in Virginia.

Since 1956, when I climbed aboard the
train at the Buena Vista station for New
York to take the boat home, I have been
wearing the college ring on my finger. This
gold ring with its blue stone in the middle
has often attracted attention in the rather
sophisticated atmosphere of an old capital
city like Paris and in the circles that I have
frequented professionally. But I have always
worn it, and it has become a part of me. It
may seem rather childish, I suppose, but you
know the child in every one of us is still there
deep down inside, and I can’t help feeling
we should be grateful for that.

I remember at the height of the Algerian
War, when I was in active service just four
years after leaving this campus, I lost my ring
in the sand. Those were hard times, com-
munications with France—not to mention
America—were slow and unreliable, but I
remember I pulled a lot of strings and used
all the connections I could to have a replica
sent to me from Hamric and Smith, Lex-
ington Jewelers, for I was sure they would
still have the size of the fourth finger of my
left hand. Just imagine, in the middle of
Algeria in the last stage of a bitter struggle
between the diehards of the secret Army
organization and the Algerian nationalists,
when the French government forces that I
was fighting for as a soldier found themselves
caught in a cross fire between those two
enemy factions, I received my ring in the mail
one day, just a month after I had lost it. I
put it on right away, and from that moment
I was sure I would come to no harm!

I took this as another stroke of luck for

 

me, and I wear this college ring a bit like a
talisman. How many times have I looked in-
to the blue stone and relived moments and
scenes from my time here, as if I were look-
ing into a crystal ball.

will give you another example of

how present Washington and Lee has

always remained in my life. When
I speak in public in France or in Europe I
often come back to the story of what was in
many ways one of the turning points in my
stay here. This was at the end of the ’54-’55
academic year, when my Fulbright scholar-
ship had run out and I was supposed to go
back to Paris. But I was happy here. I had
made a lot of friends, and I felt I needed at
least another year really to get the full benefit
of the experience.

So I tried to find a way of staying on,
but I couldn’t. Then one evening during an
informal chat over a drink with an alumnus
I had just met, I happened to mention my
problem in passing. The very next morning
that remarkable man went to Dean Gilliam
and suggested he start a special fund to
enable me to stay, which basically amounted
to paying for my tuition fees, so that, as he
himself said, I could go on bringing what I
had to offer into the life of the campus, and
vice versa: the campus could go on further-
ing my education. That is exactly what hap-
pened. I stayed on another year, and that se-
cond year was like a booster rocket for me.
It gave me a chance to get into orbit.

I only saw that gentleman once. His name
was Bland Terry. He and Dean Gilliam are
sadly no longer with us, but I want to take
this opportunity of thanking them publicly.
I have waited 30 years to do so.

It is interesting to note that when I tell

 

this story to American friends they take it
as a matter of course, a perfectly normal
thing to happen to anyone in this country.
But when I got back to Europe and told peo-
ple about it, and when I stressed all that it
meant in the way of hospitality and generosi-
ty, not to mention sheer confidence on the
part of that kind alumnus to allow a foreign
student to go on enjoying the benefits of the
education the school was giving him—well,
I can tell you my listeners were impressed,
and I think it gave them an insight into why
people like me who have had the good for-
tune to spend time living and studying on an
American campus have kept a permanent
feeling of gratitude and affection for the
school where we were and, consequently, for
this country of yours, too.

Thus, thanks to that gentleman and to
the school and to the class I spent those two
years with, I have ever since had the impres-
sion of possessing two homes: my first home,
my family, my native land and my own
culture, and a second home here at the
school. ‘‘Homecoming’’ was a word whose
meaning I found hard to understand when
I first arrived here. I didn’t have any idea
of the true significance of the word ‘‘home’’
for everyone here—the students, the pro-
fessors, the deans, and the president, lovely
Dr. Gaines.

For me, at the beginning, Washington
and Lee was just a place where we were go-
ing to live for a while to get some qualifica-
tions. It was only gradually, through an in-
definable web of feelings, emotions, human
relationships, services rendered, and sharing
of friendship and culture, that the notion of
home became stronger and stronger and so
powerful that when we came back after vaca-
tions, it was indeed more like coming home

than simply going back to a school.

I think that is a very unique feeling. It
is a privilege that not everyone is lucky
enough to enjoy. Those of us who have had
this rare opportunity through our own ef-
forts or through the foresight or the fortune
or the wisdom of our parents and who were
able to reap the benefits got a head start in
order to face life’s ups and downs.

A home is a home. It is not a place, and
Washington and Lee is not another school
on the map. I hope this unique feeling I am
telling you about is still shared by the fine
young women and young men I have met
these past few days on campus. I have had
this urge to tell them, ‘‘Enjoy it. Take in all
the beauty of it. You are in an exclusive
situation. You are surrounded by a world full
of sound and fury and you will soon enter
that world. Before entering it, try to store
in as much harmony and beauty, and fine
education and lessons from great people or
great books of the past, for this will give you
more than a diploma. It will provide you
with the necessary moral and spiritual
strength, the necessary sense of humor and
balance to struggle with whatever lies
ahead.’’

For, you see, there are two kinds of
knowledge. There is the one that you get out
of books and teaching, and then there is the
knowledge that you get out of human rela-
tionships, the passing of seasons, the slow
buildups of friendships, loyalties, ethics. This
is what Washington and Lee was all about
and still is today. For the past here mingles
artistically with the present, and that is the
small miracle one can still observe amongst
these peaceful preserved walls, trees, and
lawns on this hill under that magic
Colonnade.

Such are some of the thoughts, some of
the feelings that overwhelm me tonight in this
very Lee Chapel where 30 years ago, young
men in crew cuts and coats and ties, with
virgin faces, unaware of our future, eager
and inexperienced, full of hopes and dreams
of glory or happiness or success, we would
reunite for such or such a ceremony.

Lee Chapel, where I can recognize
through the smiles of the mature men we
have become, the 18-year-old boys that we
were. And where I want to see through the
unknown faces of today’s generation the
same eagerness and the same awareness of
their chance and their desire to learn, to
grow, to shape a better world in a better
society. Lee Chapel, where it is with deep
pride and honor and love that I say to you,
ladies and gentlemen, members of all the
classes reunited here, but especially my com-
rades of my generation, welcome home.

We&L ii

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Neville Richardson

12 W&L

 

 

—

nopiargs OF ea:

 

NS T89

 

 

 

 

 

Krzysztof Jasiewicz

vocate for an increasingly pluralistic Polish society. The
church is also outspoken about the use of violence.

‘‘The government needs the church because it is the one
stabilizing factor,’’ Jasiewicz believes.

One indication of Roman Catholicism’s pervasiveness in
Poland is the sheer number of churches. There are more chur-
ches currently under construction in Poland, Jasiewicz says,
than there are standing in all of Eastern Europe.

Yet despite its evident political influence, Jasiewicz thinks
the church would like to have a greater impact on the
thoughts and private actions of the Polish people themselves.
For example, although the church takes a strong stance
against abortion and contraception, many abortions are per-
formed annually in Poland and the average Pole believes in
and uses contraception.

‘‘Through political dimensions, the church reinforces itself
in other dimensions,’’ Jasiewicz says. ‘‘It strives to reinforce
itself in all other dimensions of the social consciousness.”’

The social consciousness in Poland and Polish society itself
are among the areas that most interest Washington and Lee
students, Jasiewicz has found. His students are ‘‘very curious
about Poland and ask all kinds of questions from political
philosophy to everyday life to rock music.’’ Many students
have a stereotypical view of Poland, he says, but others
possess a deep understanding and knowledge of the country.

Jasiewicz first learned about Washington and Lee during a
stay in Florida back in 1980. Media coverage of the Mock

 

Republican Convention that year caught his attention, and he
jumped at the chance to come to Lexington when a one-year
position became available in the sociology department.

Jasiewicz was particularly attracted to Washington and
Lee’s broad liberal arts curriculum and its collegial at-
mosphere. ‘‘There is nothing like Washington and Lee in
Poland,’’ he says. ‘“‘The colleges and universities are highly
specialized and provide limited education in the liberal arts.
When I taught at Warsaw University I tried to develop some
relationships with the students, but it was not easy. Here the
students are not faces in the crowd, but individuals who stop
by the office to talk.”’

He also admires Washington and Lee’s honor system,
which he says serves as ‘‘a bright example for other academic
institutions.’’

Jasiewicz will remain on the W&L faculty through the fall
term. But in December, he and his wife and their new baby—
born in Lexington in July—will return to Poland. Since it has
been more than two and.a half years since he left, he is an-

_ ticipating some changes in Polish society. He has kept abreast

of economic developments such as higher prices by reading
Polish magazines and newspapers. But he is not optimistic
about finding many changes in the political realm.

‘‘The situation cannot continue as is forever,’’ he says. ‘‘I
see certain shifts in strategy as well as in the attitudes of the
people. But unless there are some political solutions there will
always be some sort of dictatorship.”’

W&L 15

 

i

a
a

 

 

 

 

 

sa PR a”

 

 

 

 

 

fay tase -

 

 

 

 

 

>

 

7

 

 

 

ae

 
 

 

>

_

 

 

Sa

 

years of age as a result of maternal infection,
and between 15 and 60 years of age as a result
of sex. There are almost no cases in people
between the ages of four and 15. Mosquitoes
obviously do not decide to stop biting at four
and start again at 15.

It is not doorknobs, it is not toilet seats,
it is not being in a bus, it is not being near
someone, it is not eating food that has been
prepared by food handlers. It is basically sex
and drugs. That means you have to go out
of your way to get it. It is a disease of con-
senting adults, and, unfortunately, even con-
senting youth.

Of the more than 65,000 AIDS cases and
more than 36,000 deaths that we have seen,
about 72 percent have been in gay and bisex-
ual men, 18 percent in IV drug users, four
percent through heterosexual contact, two
percent through tranfusions, and one percent
in hemophiliacs. The last two percentages
will decrease because of testing and treatment
of blood products.

We tend to put these people into groups
and talk about them as high-risk groups,
especially gays and IV drug users. That is a
notion we need to forget. It is not who you
are but what you do. Much emphasis has
been placed on prostitutes. But the virus
doesn’t know whether you’ve paid for sex
or not. It is very indiscriminate. In San Fran-
cisco, we tested prostitutes and sexually ac-
tive women and found the same level of
infection—very low but the same level. When
we tend to think of these as high-risk groups
it is very easy for us to deny that AIDS is
a risk or a problem for us.

Tragically, 90 percent of the cases are be-
tween the ages of 20 and 49. Sixty percent
of the adult cases are white, 25 percent black,
and 14 percent Hispanic. That is an over-
representation of blacks and Hispanics by a
factor of two compared to the general
population. When we look at kids it is even
more extreme, with 21 percent white, 55 per-
cent black, and 24 percent Hispanic. So
almost 80 percent of all children who are in-
fected are children of color.

The states with the biggest problem are
New York, California, Florida, Texas, and
New Jersey. New York City and San Fran-
cisco represent about 33 percent of the cases
and, within three years, are expected to
represent only 20 percent, so the disease will
be moving out and reaching much higher
levels in other cities and towns. Many com-
munities are very complacent because they
look only at the number of AIDS cases that
have actually been diagnosed. They need to
realize that no matter how small the number,
for each one of those cases diagnosed there
are at least 10 to 30 standing in the wings who
are infected.

hen we consider AIDS, we are
W looking at a continuum from the

initial infection, a mono-
nucleosis or flu-like episode with fever,
cough, and rash, which goes away. Then, as
the immune system is compromised, we get
ARC—AIDS-Related Complex—with per-
sistent problems such as weight loss, night
sweats, fever, diarrhea, and swelling of
glands. Finally, the disease moves on into
AIDS itself, which can be a number of in-
fections, or the cancer, Karposi’s sarcoma,
and then ultimately death.

We have AZT now, and it seems to be
somewhat effective in reducing the infections
that afflict people with AIDS. It’s hoped that
AZT can be used closer to the time of infec-
tion to interrupt the process along that con-
tinuum. Unfortunately, it is not an in-
nocuous drug, and about 20 percent of those
who take it need regular blood tranfusions
because of suppression of the bone marrow
and the resultant anemia. In fact, so many
transfusions have been needed in England
that the blood supply has been affected. But
we hope AZT in combination or alternation
with other drugs may give us a way of ar-
resting the continuum of this disease, so that
people can lead a relatively normal life.

With regard to vaccines, even though
there are trials being done right now, I am
not very optimistic. The tests in animals have
not been effective, and even if we do see a
vaccine, it is going to take years.

What we really need right now is a na-
tional policy. It is incredible that this disease
has taken more than 30,000 lives and has af-
fected well over 50,000 people, and we have
no national policy to deal with it. When the
president gave his State of the Union message
in January, there was not one word about
AIDS.

We must have a national policy, one that

talks about research, even though more
money is going into research now than was
formerly the case. But it is not enough. The
American Foundation for AIDS Research
receives hundreds of requests from very
qualified researchers who cannot get money
from the federal government, or, if they can,
it takes too long.

We need money for care. This is not a
local problem, but a national problem. Good
treatment centers, such as those in San Fran-
cisco and New York and Washington, serve
as magnets, drawing people from the subur-
ban areas, from other states, and even inter-
nationally. We need to provide care, or com-
munities are going to be overwhelmed. San
Francisco has done a fine job, but it is at a
point where it cannot do very much more,
and yet people continue to come for care.

Finally, there is the issue of education.

 

It is not doorknobs, it is
not toilet seats, it is not
being in a bus, it is not
being near someone, it Is
not eating food that has
been prepared by food
handlers. It is basically
sex and drugs. That

means you have to go out

of your way to get it.

 

W&L

19

 

 

If we could educate
everybody and if everyone
listened to what we said
and then if everyone
responded appropriately
and did not engage in
high-risk behavior, we
could stop the spread of
the virus tomorrow with
no vaccine, and with no
treatment.

 

20

W&L

A few months ago I attended the London
Summit Meeting on AIDS with health
ministers from around the world, and it was
embarrassing to be there. Countries that have
fewer cases than some areas of Virginia have
had incredible education programs. In this
country we have been concerned with the
moralistic questions of whom should we
teach, how old should they be, and what
should be the content. These are so-called
*‘moral’’ issues, but as far as I am concern-
ed, there is nothing more immoral than
allowing our youth to die out of ignorance.

We have to try to encourage abstinence.
Certainly you are not going to get a sexually
transmitted disease if you practice it. But we
know that at least 800,000 teenagers do not
practice it, because that is the number of
teenage pregnancies every year. At the age
when our children are possibly going to
become sexually active, we must give them
information. Ignorance is dangerous—not
knowledge.

f we look to the future, what do we
I see? First, the number of homosexual
cases will level off. In San Fran-

cisco last year, there was almost no transmis-
sion of the virus among gay men. That shows
that education can have a real impact. But
we are still having a problem reaching IV
drug abusers. When we do reach them they
do not want to die of AIDS, and if they do
want to get off drugs then we have another
problem—there are not enough drug treat-
ment programs.

This disease is exposing the underbelly of
a number of social ills that we have tended
to ignore. One of them is drug abuse and the
way in which we are dealing with it, which
is not very effective. And until we start deal-
ing with it more effectively—and I am not
just talking about bigger guns and bigger
boats but looking at it as a medical problem,
as a social problem, and making sure we have
the facilities to provide treatment when peo-
ple want to get off drugs—we are going to
see an increase in drug users who get infected
from the sharing of needles and syringes.
Their partners or spouses and offspring are
also going to get infected, so we will see more
women and babies with the disease.

Another social issue that we tend to ig-
nore is prostitution. One Friday a prostitute
came into a clinic in San Francisco and
wanted an AIDS test, but it was too late in
the day for her to get one. As she walked out
she said, ‘‘It really doesn’t matter. I’ve got
a child to support and a roof to keep over
my head, so I’m going to be on the streets
anyway.’’ We must examine this issue and
look at the alternatives we need to provide
to help people change their activities.

The other issue is our youth. We must

reach them through churches, synagogues,
schools, civic groups, wherever we can, so
we can get the information out in whatever
way they will understand. People have ask-
ed me if Iam concerned about offending the
community. The only community I worry
about offending is the one I am trying to
reach, because if I offend them they are not
going to get the message. The rest of the
community does not matter, because they do
not have to look at the information that we
are disseminating. Again, if Jesse Helms has
his way, we will not be able to offer the kind
of information that these individuals need.
Information that would be very palatable for
most of us would be totally unintelligible to
an inner-city teenager who has not made it
past the third grade.

We have to reach the heterosexuals in this
country and educate them. If we could
educate everybody—which is a big ‘‘if’’—
and if everyone listened to what we said—
which is another big ‘‘if?’—and then, the big-
gest ““if’’ of all, if everyone responded ap-
propriately and did not engage in high-risk |
behavior, we could stop the spread of the
virus tomorrow with no vaccine, and with
no treatment. That is not to say those already
infected might not go on to get AIDS, but
we could stop the spread of the virus.

What we have to do locally in all of our
communities is have cooperation and col-
laboration among the public, private, and
voluntary sectors and with those who are af-
flicted with AIDS, to plan how to deal with
this disease, how to provide care, and most
importantly how to provide compassion and
sensitivity.

This need was never clearer to me than
when I got involved with the Names Project.
The Names Project was created by a man in
San Francisco named Cleve Jones who realiz-
ed that those who were grieving about the
loss of someone who had AIDS could work
through that grief by doing a quilt, a panel
measuring three feet by six feet, which just
happens to be about the size of a casket. All
the quilts were then put together, and in the
fall they stretched two blocks along the
Washington Mall, between the Capitol and
the Washington Monument. By next year
they are expected to go the entire distance.

Most of these panels came in with a let-
ter, and I saw one that read, ‘‘I know you
said to put only one name in the panel, and
I’m sorry for violating that, but I had to put
two names in because both of my sons died
of AIDS, and they were very good friends.”’

More than anything that crystallized for
me the realization that regardless of what
anyone might think of other people’s
behavior, every person who has AIDS is
somebody’s child.

A Magnificent Gift

 

Marguerite and Gerry Lenfest, *53, Give $3 Million to Performing Arts Center

 

ashington and Lee has received
a gift of $3 million from
Marguerite and H.F. (Gerry)

Lenfest, ’53, of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., for
construction and endowment of the Univer-
sity’s planned $9.5 million center for the per-
forming arts.

At its May meeting, the W&L Board of
Trustees voted to name the facility ‘‘The
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.’’

*“We are deeply honored by the Lenfests’
magnificent support of Washington and
Lee,’’ said W&L President John D. Wilson
in announcing the gift. ‘‘Their generosity will
enhance the quality of life for the entire
Washington and Lee community and help us
reinforce our mission as a liberal arts institu-
tion by enlarging our already active programs
in music and drama.”’

The Lenfest gift is the second-iargest gift
ever made to Washington and Lee by a liv-
ing alumnus. Sydney and Frances Lewis of
Richmond gave $10.5 million to the Univer-
sity in 1976, and in subsequent years, for
construction of a new law school and other
projects.

‘‘Marguerite and I are delighted with this
opportunity to contribute to the new center
for the performing arts with its lasting prom-
ise of enriching the learning experience at
Washington and Lee,’’ Mr. Lenfest said in
making his pledge.

The combined construction and endow-
ment cost required for the Lenfest Center is
$11.5 million. The University has already
received gift commitments totaling $10.6
million. September 30, 1988, is the target
date for completion of the $11.5 million
objective.

A 1953 graduate of Washington and Lee
with a major in economics, Gerry Lenfest is
president of The Lenfest Group, a cable
television and communications company
with headquarters in Pottstown, Pa. After
graduating from W&L, he spent two years
with the U.S. Navy before enrolling in Col-
umbia University’s law school. Upon
graduation, he joined the New York law firm
of Davis Polk & Wardwell, founded by W&L
alumnus John W. Davis.

He first became interested in communica-
tions through one of his law firm’s clients,

 

Gerry and Marguerite Lenfest

Walter Annenberg. Annenberg is president
of Triangle Publishing, which produces TV
Guide, Seventeen, and other publications.
Mr. Lenfest served as associate counsel for
Triangle from 1965 to 1970, when he took
over the communications division with full
editorial responsibility for Seventeen and
supervision of Triangle’s cable television
properties.

In 1974, he and two other investors pur-
chased the Lebanon, Pa., cable television
system from Triangle. From that small
beginning, with 7,600 subscribers, Lenfest
Communications has grown to become the
32nd-largest cable television system in the na-
tion, with more than 334,000 subscribers.
Lenfest Communications is now the largest
cable television company in the metropolitan
Philadelphia area, and it also owns the cable
systems in Oakland, Berkeley, and other
communities in the San Francisco Bay area.

The company’s success has been the
result of both luck and hard work, Mr.
Lenfest says. From the beginning, he and his
wife have operated the cable systems out of
their home in Huntingdon Valley, with Mrs.
Lenfest serving as secretary and treasurer.

‘‘Marguerite and I wanted to have our
own business, and we were interested in com-
munications,’’ Mr. Lenfest explains. ‘‘But
no one could have foreseen what has hap-
pened in cable.’’

Although they have been thinking for a
long time about making a substantial gift to
Washington and Lee, it was only recently
that the Lenfests were able to put those
thoughts into action. During alumni reunion
weekend in May, the couple heard an infor-
mal state of the university message that
Frank Parsons, 54, assistant to the presi-
dent, delivered to members of the class of
1953. Parsons mentioned ongoing efforts to
complete funding for the Center for the Per-
forming Arts. The Lenfests were immediate-
ly interested.

‘*We talked for two years about what we
would like to do,’’ Marguerite Lenfest
recalls. ‘We wanted something that we could
enjoy and participate in.’’

Her husband adds, ‘‘Since I am involv-
ed in communications, I was interested in
that field. But through conversations with
people like President Wilson and Farris
Hotchkiss, we realized that our gift could be
used more for what the faculty and ad-
ministration believe is important.

‘*Washington and Lee is in such a remote
location that a facility like this will enable
the University to attract the greats of the
theatre world to Lexington,’’ he continues.
*“The new center will also strengthen the
liberal arts at W&L. The arts raise the human
experience and enlarge it. The most suc-
cessful people in life have an awareness and
sensitivity to human potential, and that is all
part of the liberal arts experience.”’

The University accepted bids on the new
center this summer. Construction is expected
to begin this fall and to take 20 months to
complete.

Funding for the center has been provid-
ed by gift commitments from alumni,
friends, corporations, and foundations.
Those commitments include challenge grants
of $600,000 from the Kresge Foundation and
$750,000 from the Christian A. Johnson
Endeavor Foundation. A volunteer commit-
tee led by Stephen S. Sloan, 754, of New
York City has worked with the Board of
Trustees to oversee the fund-raising effort.

The Lenfest Center for the Performing
Arts will be located diagonally across Nelson
Street from the recently completed Gaines
Residence Hall.

W&L 21

The W&L Gazette

 

Gaines Residence Hall Dedicated in May Ceremony

 

fter more than two years of con-

struction, Washington and Lee’s

new Francis P. Gaines Residence
Hall was officially dedicated during
ceremonies in May.

The $8 million, 71,000-square-foot facili-
ty first opened its doors to student occupants
last August. Located at the corner of
Washington and Nelson streets, the building
was designed to accommodate approximately
250 upperclass students.

Early in 1986, the Board of Trustees
voted to name the new residence hall for
Francis P. Gaines, who served as president
of Washington and Lee from 1930 to 1959.
His 29 years of service was the longest tenure
of any president in the University’s history.

Gaines, who died at his home in Lex-
ington in 1963, assumed the presidency of
Washington and Lee when the nation was in
the midst of the Great Depression. While
other educational institutions were fighting
for survival, Washington and Lee continued
to thrive under his direction.

During the dedication ceremony, Presi-
dent John D. Wilson said of Gaines, ‘‘The
trustees and the administration of the
University are honored to have the oppor-
tunity to name this lovely building in
memory of such a rare human being. We do
so in the hope that the values he represented
and the monumental services he performed
for Washington and Lee will always be
manifest here.”’

Also participating in the dedication was
Gaines’s son, Edwin Gaines, ’50, who un-
veiled a plaque honoring his father that will
be mounted in the residence hall. ‘‘Our fami-
ly rejoices and takes great satisfaction in this
beautiful and functional building, which
could only create an atmosphere conducive
to academic achievement and excellence,’’
Gaines said.

Most of the rooms in the new facility are
arranged into suites, which have their own
bath, living area, and closet space. The
building also features two lounges with ful-
ly equipped kitchens, an exercise room, a
computer facility, and a large multi-purpose
area for lectures, meetings, and special
events.

In its first year, Gaines Hall enjoyed a
75 percent rate of occupancy. The building
is expected to be filled nearly to capacity in
the coming year.

‘With this building we were aiming to

22 W&L

 

Gaines Residence Hall

create a residential facility for our students,”’
Wilson said during the dedication. ‘‘But we
did aim to have more than simply a dor-
mitory; that is to say, more than just a place
where students might sleep, but rather a place
where they might live, and live fully.’’

Law school applications
increase by 25 percent

Applications to the Washington and Lee
School of Law this year were up 25 percent
from a year ago.

The law school received 1,200 applica-
tions for 120 spots in the class of 1991. Last
year, approximately 1,000 people applied for
the same number of spots.

M. Susan Palmer, ’85L, associate dean
of the law school, believes part of the reason
for the applications increase is the populari-
ty of the television program ‘‘L.A. Law’’
and last summer’s broadcast of the Iran-
Contra hearings.

**Anytime lawyers are in the news, there

is an increase in interest in the law,’’ Palmer
says. ‘‘It is much like the increased interest
in journalism during Watergate.”’

Palmer believes the increase in law school
applications can also be linked to the stock
market crash last fall and the general decline
in the business community.

“We are seeing lots of applications from
stockbrokers, portfolio managers, and other
business-related graduates with M.B.A.’s,”’
Palmer explains. ‘‘Investment banking has
been a popular career choice for several
years, but it doesn’t seem to be as popular
this year as it has been in the past.’’

Many of the applicants this year are older
and have been working in the business world
for three or four years.

‘“‘We had more graduate degrees and
more career changers in this applicant pool
than we have had in the past,’’ Palmer con-
tinues. ‘‘We have certified public accoun-
tants, real estate brokers, physicians, health-
care professionals, and even an abstract ar-
tist.’’

 

Some of these career changers, Palmer
explains, are exploring ways to relate their
former professions to the law. For example,
physicians are interested in the law from the
perspective of malpractice insurance and
defending doctors who are sued for malprac-
tice. The abstract artist may concentrate on
copyright law and representing other artists.

The increase in applications at
Washington and Lee reflects a national
trend. According to the Law School Admis-
sions Council, applications to law schools
across the country were expected to number
between 75,000 and 80,000 this year, an in-
crease Of 17 percent. The number of law
school applicants peaked in the mid-1970s at
an estimated 85,000.

Despite the increased interest in law
school, Palmer warns that those students
who apply merely because they have watch-
ed ‘‘L.A. Law’’ or the Iran-Contra hearings
may not understand what a legal career
means in the real world.

**The gulf between perception and reali-
ty for most first-year law students is wide
anyway,’’ she says. ‘“The gulf between ‘L.A.
Law’ and reality is even wider.’’

One professor, three graduates
receive Fulbright awards

One Washington and Lee professor and
three June graduates have received Fulbright
grants for study abroad in the 1988-89
academic year.

J. David Parker, associate professor of
history; Kathryn L. Tucker, ’88, of Lex-
ington, Va.; Gregory D. Russell, ’88, of
Pomona, N.Y.; and Molly E. Hall, ’88L, of
Charleston, W.Va., were awarded the
grants, which are administered by the U.S.
Information Agency.

Parker will use his grant to lecture at a
university in Santiago, Chile, from August
till January. A specialist on Latin American
and U.S. history, Parker received a Fulbright
grant in 1976 to study in Brazil.

The three student recipients of Fulbrights
will travel to West Germany for the year.
Tucker will study German language and
literature at the University of Bayreuth.
Russell, a mathematics major, will enroll at
the Technische Hochschule near Frankfort,
and Hall will be at Hannover doing com-
parison study on German and American
campaign financing laws.

Approximately 1,000 Americans will go
abroad this year to lecture or conduct
research under the auspices of the Fulbright
program. Recipients are selected on the basis
of academic and professional qualifications
and their ability and willingness to share
ideas and experiences with people of diverse

    
 

cultures.

Funded by Congress, the grants include
a two-month language course, round-trip
transportation, tuition, and books for one
academic year in a foreign country.

Murchison receives
Outstanding Faculty Award

Brian C. Murchison, associate professor
of law at Washington and Lee, received a
1988 Outstanding Faculty Award given by
the Virginia Council of Higher Education.

Murchison was one of 13 faculty
members from Virginia’s public and private
colleges and universities who were chosen for
their contributions to teaching, research, and
public service.

me | A graduate of Yale
University, Murchison
served with the Peace
Corps in Benin, West
| Africa, from 1974 to
1976. He was an attorney
with the Washington,
: D.C., law firm of Hamel,
Park, McCabe, and Saunders before joining
the W&L faculty in 1982.

This is the second year of the Outstand-
ing Faculty Awards program, which was
established by the 1986 Virginia General
Assembly. Last year two members of the
W&L faculty—Philip L. Cline, professor of
administration and economics, and Leonard
E. Jarrard, professor of psychology—were
among the 13 winners.

Foundation awards gift
for Russian and Asian studies

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has
awarded $275,000 to Washington and Lee to
strengthen the University’s programs in Rus-
sian language and area studies and the East
Asian Studies Program.

‘“We are again indebted to the Mellon
Foundation for making possible the advance-
ment of two other programs in the cur-
riculum,’’ said John W. Elrod, dean of the
College (of arts and sciences) and vice presi-
dent for academic affairs. ‘‘Washington and
Lee is very fortunate to have the continuing
support of this foundation in the enhance-
ment of our academic programs.”’

The Mellon grant will make possible two
additional appointments in Russian and
Japanese language and literature; the use of
native teaching assistants in Japanese,
Chinese, and Russian; the development of
a new Russian area studies program; and the
further strengthening of Japanese and
Chinese language instruction in the East
Asian Studies Program.

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation was
created by Ailsa Mellon Bruce and Paul
Mellon to honor their father, the financier
and secretary of the treasury from 1921 to
1932.

Faculty promotions announced

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees approved promotions for nine
faculty members during May.

Promoted from associate professor to
full professor are: Charles T. Boggs
(philosophy); Barry F. Machado (history);
and David R. Novack (sociology).

Promoted from assistant professor to
associate professor are: Richard G. Marks
(religion); Kathy Jo Koberstein (romance
languages); and J. David Parker (history).

Promoted from instructor to assistant
professor are: John A. Lambeth and Gwyn
C. Campbell (romance languages).

Thomas P. Whaley, professor of com-
puter science, was granted tenure.

Library receives collection

James S. Patty, a former faculty member
at Washington and Lee who recently retired
as professor of French at Vanderbilt Univer-
sity, has given W&L’s University Library 158
volumes from his collection on 19th-century
French poet Charles Baudelaire.

Included in the gift are nine editions in
French of Baudelaire’s major work, Les
Fleurs du Mal. Also included are books
about Baudelaire, volumes of his other
works, and critical works on his writings.

Patty taught in W&L’s romance
languages department from 1960 to 1964. He
is a noted Baudelaire scholar and the author
of numerous publications about the poet.

Award named for Dodd

A new award has been established at
Washington and Lee in memory of Edward
A. Dodd, ’67, who died in 1985.

The Edward A. Dodd Award will be
presented annually to the graduating W&L
senior whose senior thesis exemplifies the
highest standards in the study of philosophy.

The award, which was established
through the contributions of Dodd’s W&L
friends and classmates, is designed to
recognize the qualities Dodd exhibited while
he was a student at Washington and Lee.
Those qualities include ‘‘academic excellence
motivated by a concern for ideas for their
own sake, vigor in intellectual pursuit and
resilience in the face of criticism, good will
toward others encouraging them to higher
achievement, and courage in the face of
misfortune.’’

W&L = 23

 

n a warm Saturday afternoon

in May, a few hundred

Washington and Lee stu-
dents gathered on the lawn between the
Colonnade and Lee Chapel.

Some were there to listen to the rock
music being performed by a line-up of
five bands, all composed of fellow
students. Others were there to toss
Frisbees, or simply to soak up the spring
sunshine. Still others had come to ex-
press their concern about human rights
abuses throughout the world.

The outdoor concert was the
culmination of ‘‘Human Rights Now!
Week,”’ a series of events sponsored by
W&L’s fledgling chapter of Amnesty In-
ternational designed to draw attention to
the subject of human rights.

The week began with panel discus-
sions about human rights in Africa and
Latin America. Among those par-
ticipating in the discussions were David
Parker, assistant professor of history at
W&L; Gregory Stanton, associate pro-
fessor of law; Neville Richardson,
Howerton visiting professor of religion;
and the Rt. Rev. Benoni Ogwal, the ex-
iled bishop of northern Uganda and cur-
rent bishop-in-residence in Lexington.

The W&L chapter of Amnesty Inter-
national was formed last winter by
senior Kevin McNamara, a religion ma-
jor from Sterling, Va. Before long more
than 80 students, faculty and staff
members, and townspeople expressed
their interest in participating in the
group.

McNamara was not surprised by the
community’s enthusiastic response.
“During your entire college career,
you’re cut off from the rest of the
world,’’ he believes. ‘‘Amnesty provides
a way to reach out of your own self-
centered universe and see a wider per-

 

sy

 

Students form chapter of Amnesty International

 

and Lee students plays to a crowd on the Lee Chapel

lawn during a concert sponsored by the W&L chapter of Amnesty International. Five student bands
donated their time to the concert, which supported the cause of human rights worldwide.

spective. _ |

support the rights set forth in the Universal

“Every little bit you do can help—even
just writing letters to foreign countries.
Not doing anything leads to a nihilistic at-
titude. And I don’t think that’s what the
world is all about.”’

Every other week during the school
year, the W&L group meets in the Univer-
sity Center. Sometimes the members view
videotapes or listen to guest speakers talk
about human rights issues. Sometimes
they simply write letters to government of-
ficials throughout the world in response
to allegations of human rights abuses.

‘“‘Human Rights Now! Week,’’ the
first campus-wide activity sponsored by
the W&L chapter of Amnesty Interna-

. tional, was part of a worldwide effort to

Declaration of Human Rights, which the
United Nations General Assembly adopted
40 years ago. During the’ week, group
members collected several hundred
signatures supporting human rights. The
petitions will be presented to the United Na-
tions on Human Rights Day, Dec. 10, 1988.

**We are part of a larger global socie-
ty,’’ McNamara says. ‘‘I think we have a
connection with others, and with that con-
nection comes responsibility.

**The entire atmosphere in the United
States is self-centered,’’ he continues. ‘‘That
‘what’s-it-going-to-do-for-me’ attitude per-
vades our society, and probably other
societies as well. Those who have joined our
group show that they do care.”’

 

Honors, awards

e Bradley B. Root of Fairview, Pa., a
1988 graduate and president of the student
body for the 1987-88 academic year, receiv-
ed the Frank Johnson Gilliam Award, which
is given to the student who has made the
most conspicuous contributions to life at
Washington and Lee.

Root has been a member of the student
affairs committee and Kathekon, the student

24 W&L

 

alumni association. He has also been active
with Cable Nine and WLUR-FM.

¢ Robert J. de Maria, associate professor
of journalism, was the recipient of the eighth
annual William Webb Pusey III Award for
outstanding service and dedication to the
University. The Pusey Award was created in
1981 by the student body executive commit-
tee and is named in honor of Pusey, who
served W&L as professor, dean, and acting
president from 1939 until his retirement in
1981.

de Maria joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1977. In addition to teaching
courses in television and radio production,
operations and programming, and advanced
broadcast journalism, he also serves as facul-
ty adviser to Cable Nine and WLUR-FM.

e Washington and Lee’s student
newspaper, the Ring-tum Phi, presented its
annual awards for outstanding service to
Bruce Beard, Lexington police chief; Kevin
D. McNamara, a 1988 graduate from Sterl-
ing, Va.; Robert Stewart, retiring professor

 

 

 

 

 

 

of music; and Andrew White, a 1988
graduate from Winchester, Va.

¢ Two Washington and Lee students,
Kevin L. Yeager of Mercersburg, Pa., and
John H. Starks Jr. of Valdosta, Ga., have
been named the co-recipients of the 1988
Cincinnati Award. The award is conferred
by the faculty on the author of the best essay
in American military history or some other
subject in Colonial, Revolutionary, or Civil
War history of the United States. For the
first time, two students were chosen to
receive the award.

Yeager, a rising senior, was recognized
for his paper, ‘‘For ‘A National Union More
Complete’: John Brown Gordon, the Legacy
of the Civil War and Sectional Reconcilia-
tion.’’ Starks, a 1988 graduate, received the
honor for his paper, ‘‘This Ancient and
Venerable Seat of the Muses: The Classics
at the 18th-Century Precursors of
Washington and Lee University.’’

¢ Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’s
literary magazine, presented the 1987 Jeanne
Charpiot Goodheart Prize for Fiction to
Mark Richard, ’80, for his story, ‘‘Happiness
of the Garden Variety.’’

The $1,000 prize is awarded to the author
of the best story published in Shenandoah
during a volume year. The award was
established by a gift of the late Mrs.
Goodheart’s husband, Harry G. Goodheart
Jr., 41, and their son, Harry G. Goodheart
III, ’66, ‘‘to reflect her enthusiastic interest
in well-crafted fiction and her affection for
the University.’’

Shenandoah also presented the 1987
Thomas H. Carter Memorial Award for
Literary Criticism to Seamus Heaney for his
essay, ‘‘The Interesting Case of Nero,
Chekhov’s Cognac, and a Knocker.’’ The
Carter Award is given to the author of the
best essay published in Shenandoah during
a volume year.

e Jesus *n Isaac, a one-act play by
Washington and Lee drama _ professor
Thomas J. Ziegler, received first place in the
Congregation Emanu El Playwright Com-
petition in Houston, Texas.

The competition recognizes plays that are
‘‘applicable to Jewish life through social
issues, moral values, etc.’’ Ziegler’s play was
chosen from more than 125 entries.

e Reid T. Campbell of New Canaan,
Conn., was the winner of the Rupert N. Lat-
ture Sophomore of the Year Award.
Established in 1981, the award is given to the
sophomore who best exemplifies the ideals
of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
leadership fraternity that was founded at
Washington and Lee. Campbell is a member
of the varsity lacrosse team and Phi Eta
Sigma honor society.

 

Alumni sponsor ‘Riegel’ dinner

Friends, former students, and family of
Tom and Jane Riegel gathered in April at the
National Press Club in Washington, D.C.,
for a dinner in honor of the retired jour-
nalism professor and his wife.

The dinner was sponsored by an infor-
mal group of Riegel disciples, as they call
themselves—James Paera, ’39; Matthews
Griffith, ’40; William Heartwell, ’41;
Charles McDowell, ’48; and Norman
Dobyns, ’54—to honor O.W. ‘‘Tom’’ Riegel
and his wife, Jane. Riegel retired as head of
the journalism department in 1973.

The evening consisted of anecdotes,
revelations, and stories about the Riegels and
the impact they have had on the lives and
minds of Washington and Lee students since
1930.

*‘Tom gave me something 42 years ago
that I had never had in my life, and that is
respect,’’ said Fielder Cook, ’46, a film-
maker. ‘‘Respect for my opinions, respect
for my hopes, respect for my dreams. He
kept at it until some of it rubbed off on me,
and I thank him gratefully for it.’’

Jenks award established

An award honoring William A. Jenks,
professor of history emeritus at Washington
and Lee, has been established by his former
students.

The William A. Jenks Award will be
given to a W&L student or graduate who has
been accepted into a graduate study program
in European history or who is already enroll-
ed in such a program. The recipient, who will
be selected by the W&L history department,
must be planning a scholarly career in the
field of European history.

The award was established through the

_ Tom and Jane Riegel
om, at the dinner held in
© their honor at the Na-
tional Press Club in
Washington, D.C.

efforts of a committee composed of former
students of Jenks. They are Roy T. Mat-
thews, ’54; Robert O. Paxton, ’54; Martin
E. Stein Jr., ’74; and Henry A. Turner, 54.

A native of Jacksonville, Fla., Jenks
received his bachelor’s degree in history from
Washington and Lee in 1939 and earned both
his master’s and doctorate degrees in Euro-
pean history from Columbia University. He
served on the W&L faculty from 1946 until
his retirement in 1983.

Six W&L alumni named in list
of top ‘Movers and Shakers’

Six Washington and Lee graduates were
included in a list of America’s top 500
*‘Movers and Shakers’”’ in a recent issue of
Industry Week magazine.

The list recognizes those ‘‘executives
who, in addition to running their own enter-
prises, devote time and energy—and their
companies’ resources—to improving the civic
and social climates of their communities.”’

Included in the litany of names were
Frank M. Young III, ’63, a partner with the
law firm of Haskell, Slaughter & Young in
Birmingham, Ala.; Philip A. Sellers, ’43,
president of Philip A. Sellers & Co. in Mont-
gomery, Ala.; A. Stevens Miles, ’51, chair-
man and chief executive officer of First Ken-
tucky Corp. in Louisville; Rice M. Tilley Jr.,
’58, a partner with the law firm of Snakard
& Gambill in Fort Worth, Texas; Tom Frost
Jr., 50, chairman of Cullen/Frost Banks in
San Antonio, Texas; and A. Prescott Rowe,
60, vice president for communications with
Ethyl Corp. in Richmond.

Industry Week identified the executives
on the list through a number of sources, in-
cluding chambers of commerce, city halls,
and other organizations. No more than five
names per city were included.

W&L= 25

 

Personnel director named

Robert W. Fox Jr., former director of
human resources at Wheaton College, has

been appointed director of personnel ser-

vices. He succeeds Shari L. Anderson, who
resigned to take a position at Bethel College
in St. Paul, Minn.

A 1968 graduate of the University of
Massachusetts, Fox served for three years as
assistant to the personnel director at Con-
necticut Valley Hospital. In 1972 he was
named the first personnel director at Hamp-
shire College in Amherst, Mass., where he
developed and implemented programs for all
aspects of personnel administration.

In 1980 Fox became the first personnel
director for New England Medical
Laboratories in Holliston, Mass. Before
assuming the position at Wheaton, he also
served briefly as personnel manager for The
Interface Group Inc. in Needham, Mass.

While at Wheaton, Fox participated in
a revision of the wage and salary administra-
tion system, conducted an analysis of all
_ benefit programs, and reviewed all person-
nel policies.

“*Bob brings with him a history of per-
sonnel experience on both the collegiate and
business levels,’’ said Lawrence W.
Broomall, W&L treasurer, in announcing the
appointment. ‘‘His variety of experience
should serve all of us well at Washington and
Lee.”’

Scholarship established
in memory of Starling

A scholarship has been established at
Washington and Lee in memory of James H.
Starling, who taught biology at the Univer-
sity for 41 years.

The James Holt Starling Scholarship will
be awarded to a rising W&L junior who is
enrolled in the premedical curriculum, who
has shown strong academic promise in the
first two undergraduate years, and who is
planning a career in medicine.

The new scholarship was made possible
by contributions from former students of
Starling, who died last year at the age of 74.

A graduate of the University of Alabama
and Duke University, Starling joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1942 and
taught for a year before leaving to serve in
the U.S. Army Medical Corps as a
parasitologist. He returned to W&L in 1946,
and in 1963 he was named coordinator of
premedical studies at the University. In that
capacity, he worked especially closely with
undergraduates who were planning medical
careers. He retired from Washington and Lee
in 1983.

26 W&L

 

pastes
ei

~~ ee

 

A gift from Gray Castle, ’53, ’55L, and his wife, Linda, made possible the purchase of this

residential property, which is adjacent to the Liberty Hall ruins west of the main campus. Ran-
dall P. Bezanson, new dean of the School of Law, and his family are currently occupying the
house on a temporary basis. In the future, the University plans to use the property as a residence

for distinguished visiting faculty members.

The Bookshelf

 

Rouse Book Studies Camp Family Empire

 

The Timber Tycoons:
The Camp Families of Virginia and
Florida, and their Empire, 1887-1987
By Parke Rouse Jr., ’37
(William Byrd Press)

This family chronicle, commissioned by
the Southampton County Historical Socie-
ty, recounts the growth of a Virginia fami-
ly’s lumber mill from Reconstruction until
its recent merger into the Union Camp
Corp., one of America’s biggest corpora-
tions. It is also the story of the rural South’s
rise from slave-based farming to today’s mix-
ed industrial economy, creating countless
new jobs.

Of the six able Camp brothers who form-
ed Camp Manufacturing Co. in Franklin,
Va., in 1887, three went to Florida. There
they prospered in other fields besides lumber,
including phosphate mining, citrus growing,
hydroelectric power generation, and hard-
rock processing for road and airport
construction.

During its career the Camps’ company
has become one of the most productive in
the nation, converting the South’s pine trees
into building materials, paper, and packag-
ing. One reviewer described the book as ‘‘the
story of a remarkable family of gifted
businessmen, who shared their fortune with
their communities.’’

This is Rouse’s 21st book, mostly in the
realm of biography and Southern history.

Parties

By Elizabeth Seydel Morgan
Visiting Professor of English
(Louisiana State University Press)

This first full-length collection of poems
explores both the joy and the pain of human
existence. In a voice simultaneously confi-
dent and vulnerable, Morgan presents a view
of a life in progress, aware of its own growth
and maturity.

The poems confront life’s many
paradoxes: the forces that bring human be-
ings together while at the same time driving
them apart; the contradictions between
nature and culture; and the interrelation of
joy and pain.

Through her poetry Morgan reveals the
varied roles she has played in her own life,
as mother, wife, and friend. In one particular
sequence a woman contemplates her relation-
ship with her mother. Others explore the
relation between the self and the natural
world.

Morgan is an instructor in English at St.
Catherine’s School in Richmond. She spent
the 1987-88 academic year as a visiting assis-
tant professor of English at Washington and
Lee.

(

 

Generals’ Report

 

Men’s Tennis Team Wins National Title

 

efore a hometown audience, the

Washington and Lee men’s tennis

team won its first ever NCAA Divi-
sion III championship in May.

To win the team title, the Generals
defeated the University of California-Santa
Cruz in a match that was scheduled to be
played in Lexington but which, like much of
the team tournament play, had to be moved
to an indoor facility in Staunton because of
inclement weather.

It was only the second time in history that
the national tournament had been staged on
W&L facilities. And although the Universi-
ty had taken great pains to prepare for the
event, the weather was less than hospitable.
Thunderstorms and rainshowers lingered
over the Lexington area throughout the
week, ending some matches early and forc-
ing others indoors.

The championship match itself took 11
hours to complete, since only one indoor
court was available for play during most of
the singles competition. The W&L and San-
ta Cruz singles players had to wait for hours
before they had a chance to get on a court.
And when they finally did, every point was
viewed by a large contingent of Washington
and Lee supporters from a steamy, glass-
partitioned gallery.

W&L trailed 4-2 after the singles com-
petition and came close to losing the cham-
pionship during the doubles. Both the No.
1 doubles team of junior Bobby Matthews
and senior David McLeod and the No. 2
team of senior Chris Wiman and sophomore
John Morris lost their first sets and were
down 6-5 in the second set with the Santa
Cruz teams serving for the wins. Almost
simultaneously the two teams, which were
playing on adjacent courts, broke their op-
ponents’ serves and forced tie-breakers.

The tie-breakers provided some tense
moments for W&L fans. Matthews and
McLeod came within one point of losing the
set—and the championship. Eventually,
however, both teams won the sets by 9-7
scores. The third sets were much easier, with
Matthews and McLeod winning 6-2 and
Wiman and Morris ending with a score of
6-3. W&L’s third doubles team of junior
Robert Haley and freshman Bill Meadows
clinched the championship for the Generals
with a 7-6 (7-5), 7-5 victory.

By Mark Mandel

a,
oe Oe ee SS
oe
~
~ aA 4 XS. *
se SS

NN eA
ee"
>
Oe

a

 

 

 

Team captains McLeod and Wiman were
W&L’s lone winners in singles and the only
Generals to win both their matches against
Santa Cruz.

**It was a thrill of a lifetime,’’ said W&L
coach Gary Franke. ‘‘To come back from
that kind of adversity is a fairy-tale situation.
It was a great team effort, with everybody
contributing. I am particularly happy for the
two seniors, David and Chris, who have
achieved so much during their four years
here.”’

McLeod and Matthews have competed in
four national tournaments, finishing in
eighth place once and in second place for two
consecutive years.

After being ranked No. 1 in the nation
for most of the season; W&L fell to No. 2
as the tournament began. The Generals
reached the championship match by beating
Emory 5-2 in the quarterfinals and Swarth-
more 5-0 in the semifinals. (Rain prevented
the completion of both matches.)

Four of W&L’s singles players—Haley,
McLeod, Matthews, and Morris—

All-American Robert
Haley serves for the
Generals.

participated in the individual competition as
well. Haley was the most successful of those,
reaching the semifinal round before losing
to the eventual national champion.

In doubles, Morris and Wiman lost in the
final round to Frank Hinman and Lance Au
of Claremont-Mudd-Scripps 6-4, 4-6, 7-5.
For a time it looked as though two W&L
teams might compete against each other in
the finals, but Matthews and McLeod were
eliminated in the semifinal round.

Matthews and Haley were named All-
Americans in singles competition, while Mat-
thews, McLeod, Wiman, and Morris achiev-
ed that status in doubles.

During the season the Generals compil-
ed a 13-8 record and won their fourth
straight ODAC championship, sweeping
every singles and doubles flight.

Golfers Try for NCAA Title
The Washington and Lee golf team also
participated in NCAA tournament action
this spring. After capturing the ODAC title,
the Generals played for the national cham-

W&L = 27

 

pionship in Greensboro, N.C.

W&L finished 21st with a final score of
974. California State University-Stanislaus
won the tournament with a score of 888.

The Generals did have two good rounds
of 322 and 321 but did not have a strong
finish, carding a 331 on the last day of
competition.

““We had a very enjoyable season and the
players have a lot to be proud of,”’ said W&L
golf coach Buck Leslie. ‘We knew we had
limitations, but this team has accomplished
a lot.”’

In earlier post-season play, the Generals
finished first in the ODAC championship.
Senior James Sowersby was medalist with a
two-round total of 155. Sowersby and
classmates John Gammage and Gary Camp-
bell earned all-conference honors.

Other spring results

In other sports action this spring, the
W&L track team won the ODAC champion-
ship for the second straight year. The
Generals won seven events and set three con-
ference records.

Senior Andy White, who went on to com-
pete in the NCAA championships, was nam-
ed ODAC runner of the year for the fourth
time. He won the 110-meter hurdles and ran

 

i me %
ib eee ONS
4 ‘

~

Junior Scott Williams of Memphis, Tenn., on
his way to victory in the 400 meters.

a leg on W&L’s winning 400-meter and
1600-meter relay teams.

In just its third year of existence, the
women’s tennis team compiled an 18-1 dual-
match record and came within half a point
of winning the conference championship.

Freshman Jean Stroman won the ODAC

Men’s team co-captain Chris Wiman (above) and No. 1 women’s

player Jean Stroman (right)

28 W&L

No. 1 singles championship and was named
Player of the Year. She represented W&L in
the NCAA championships at Emory
University.

W&L women’s tennis coach Bill
Washburn, who retired in June, was named
ODAC Coach of the Year.

Despite high expectations, the W&L
lacrosse team had a disappointing season,
winning just two of 13 games.

Last year the Generals reached the
semifinal round of the NCAA Division III
tournament. But eight members of that
squad graduated (while a ninth transferred
to another institution). Of the 28 players on
this year’s team, 19 were freshmen or
sophomores.

‘“We just didn’t jell often enough,”’ said
W&L lacrosse coach Dennis Daly. ‘‘We had
moments in every game where we played
well. Unfortunately, we had trouble playing
well for the entire game.”’

Senior midfielder Sandy Harrison, junior
attackman John Ware, and sophomore
defenseman Reid Campbell were named to
the all-conference team.

The baseball team finished out the year
with a record of 8-10. Junior catcher Eddie
Klank led the team with a .371 average and
was named an Academic All-American.

  

 

 

Awards

Andrew W. White, a 1988 June graduate
from Winchester, Va., became the 14th
Washington and Lee athlete in 18 years
selected to receive an NCAA postgraduate
scholarship.

The scholarship, which may be used for
study at the university or professional school
of the athlete’s choice, carries a stipend of
$4,000. White will enter the University of
Virginia’s law school in the fall.

During his four years on W&L’s indoor
and outdoor track teams, White won 16 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference titles. He
holds the conference record in the 55- and
110-meter hurdles and the 400- and
1600-meter relay.

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa and was a University
Scholar. He also participated in the Univer-
sity’s instrument ensemble, the Big Brothers
program for area youths, and Sigma Chi
social fraternity, and was the 1988 recipient
of W&L’s Scholar-Athlete Award.

Washington and Lee bestowed its own
honors during the annual athletic awards
ceremony in May.

Hugh A. Finkelstein, a 1986 graduate
who is currently enrolled in W&L’s law
school, won the Preston R. Brown Memorial

Award as the University’s most valuable
athlete.

During his undergraduate years, Finkel-
stein was a standout in both football and
baseball. He used only two years of his
NCAA eligibility, however, so when he
entered law school, he was able to complete
his eligibility.

In the 1987 football season, Finkelstein
was named to the all-ODAC team and led
the conference in receiving with 40 receptions
for 719 yards and four touchdowns. On the
baseball diamond, he maintained a .306 bat-
ting average.

Senior Chris Coffland received the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship Award.
A psychology major from Baltimore, Coff-
land was captain of the football team in
1987, when he led the ODAC in rushing with
405 yards.

Coffland also played midfield for the
Generals’ lacrosse squad.

The Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Awards went to tennis players William H.
Meadows of Lexington, Ky., and Jean
Stroman of Hilton Head Island, S.C. The
Generals’ No. 6 player, Meadows finished
the season with a 15-15 record in singles and
a 13-9 showing in doubles. Stroman compil-
ed a season record of 11-4 in singles and 7-3

 

 

Washington and Lee courts in time for the NCAA
tournament. Purchase of the chairs was made
possible by gifts from former players and the
parents of current players.

in doubles.

Junior Mike Shady, a journalism major
from Berwyn, Pa., and 1987-88 sports editor
of the Ring-tum Phi, won the R.E. (Chub)
Yeakel Award for outstanding service.

 

Spring
Sports
Scoreboard

Men’s Tennis (16-8)
Penn State 5, W&L 3
William & Mary 8, W&L 1
W&L 5, James Madison 4
W&L 9, Radford 0
W&L 8, Slippery Rock 1
W&L 6, Bloomsburg 3
W&L 8, Millersville 1
W&L 6, Virginia Tech 3
Davidson 6, W&L 2
‘W&L 9, UNC-Greensboro 0
W&L 7, Swarthmore 2
Washington College 5, W&L 4
W&L 9, VMI 0
W&L 9, Stetson 0
W&L 8, Central Florida 0
Rollins 7, W&L 2
Flagler 6, W&L 3
North Florida 6, W&L 3
W&L 9, Averett 0
Ist ODAC Championships
W&L 8, Emory 1
Hampton 8, W&L 1
W&L 5, Emory 2 (NCAA)
W&L 5, Swarthmore 0 (NCAA)
W&L 5, UC Santa Cruz 4 (NCAA)

Women’s Tennis (11-1)
W&L 7, Lynchburg 2
Wellesley 9, W&L 0
W&L 9, Bridgewater 0
W&L 9, Roanoke 0
W&L 7, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 2
W&L 7, Sweet Briar 2
W&L 6, Va. Commonwealth 3
W&L 5, Mary Baldwin 2
W&L 6, Centre 3
W&L 9, Armstrong 0
W&L 8, Emory & Henry 1
W&L 8, Randolph-Macon 1
2nd ODAC Championships

Baseball (8-10)
W&L 8, W.Va. Tech 6
W.Va. Tech 9, W&L 8
WEL 5, W.Va. Tech 3
Bridgewater 7, W&L 0
W&L 11, Eastern Mennonite 3
Randolph-Macon 14, W&L 6
Randolph-Macon 13, W&L 4
Hampden-Sydney 5, W&L 2
Lynchburg 6, W&L 3
W&L 2, Emory & Henry 0
Bridgewater 9, W&L 2
W&L 12, Mary Washington 7
W&L 4, Shenandoah 3
W&L 7, Emory & Henry 1
W&L 18, Eastern Mennonite 3
Hampden-Sydney 21, W&L 10
Lynchburg 9, W&L 5
Lynchburg 9, W&L 4*
*ODAC Tournament

Lacrosse (2-11)
Virginia 24, W&L 5
W&L 13, Randolph-Macon 6
Ohio Wesleyan 11, W&L 9
W&L 9, Lynchburg 5
Gettysburg 10, W&L 7
Bowdoin 17, W&L 11
Middlebury 15, W&L 13
Hampden-Sydney 18, W&L 14
Roanoke 12, W&L 7
Washington College 20, W&L 9
Franklin & Marshall 15, W&L 7
VMI 15, W&L 9
Hobart 23, W&L 6

Track (3-0)
W&L 112, Newport News Apprentice 45
W&L 112, Eastern Mennonite 19
W&L 83, Bridgewater 62
Ist ODAC Championships

Golf (9-3)
21st at Elon Tournament
W&L 319, Shenandoah 392
Randolph-Macon 319, W&L 324
Hampden-Sydney 319, W&L 324
W&L 324, Roanoke 328
W&L 324, Lynchburg 335
W&L 319, Bridgewater 354
Randolph-Macon 316, W&L 317
W&L 317, Hampden-Sydney 318
W&L 317, Bridgewater 334
W&L 317, Radford 319
W&L 317, Longwood 352
W&L 311, Shenandoah 358
Ist ODAC Championships
21st NCAA Division III Championships

W&L 29

 

W&L Athletic Hall of Fame announces first inductees

ive former athletes have been selected

as the first group of inductees into

Washington and Lee’s Athletic Hall
of Fame.

Edmund M. Cameron, ’24; Walter E.
Michaels, ’51; Karl E. (Skip) Rohnke, ’60;
Robert W. Spessard, ’39; and the late Harry
K. (Cy) Young, ’17, were chosen from a field
of 70 nominees. They will be officially in-
ducted into the Hall of Fame during a ban-
quet Sept. 9 and will also be recognized dur-
ing halftime of the Generals’ football game
with Emory & Henry the following day.

 

Cameron

Established last year by the W&L Alum-
ni Association, the Athletic Hall of Fame is
designed to honor those individuals who
have made outstanding contributions to
Washington and Lee athletics and have
helped bring recognition, excellence, and
distinction to the University and its inter-
collegiate athletic program.

To be eligible for selection, a nominee
must have participated in two full seasons
of varsity intercollegiate competition at
W&L. Nominees are eligible at any time

beginning 10 years after receiving their

bachelor’s degree. Those not selected this
year will automatically be considered for in-
duction next year.

The Hall of Fame selections were made
by a five-member committee composed of
Richard R. Warren, ’57; James D. Farrar
Jr., ’74, assistant alumni secretary; Lewis G.
John, ’58, dean of students; William D.
McHenry, ’54, director of athletics; and
Barry F. Machado, professor of history and
chairman of the University’s athletic
committee.

A three-year letterman in both football
and basketball, Eddie Cameron also served
as captain of both teams and was selected as
a fullback to the All-South Atlantic team.

 

  

Michaels

After graduation he coached Duke Univer-
sity’s Blue Devils to several basketball cham-
pionships and served as a longtime assistant

to Duke’s legendary football coach, Wallace:

Wade, helping to lead the team to several
football titles and one Sugar Bowl victory.
He later served as athletic director at Duke.
Walt Michaels was a member of
Washington and Lee’s 1950 football team—
the first and last squad ever to represent the
University in a post-season bowl game. Play-
ing both on defense as a linebacker and on
offense as a fullback, Michaels in his senior
year carried the ball 119 times for 712 yards
(for an average of 6 yards per carry), scored
10 touchdowns, and kicked 29 extra points.
He played professional football with the
Green Bay Packers and the Cleveland
Browns and was later head coach of the New
York Jets and the New Jersey Generals.
Skip Rohnke won a total of 12 varsity let-
ters at Washington and Lee in track and
field, soccer, and swimming and served as
captain of each team at different times dur-
ing his four years at W&L. He received the
Forest Fletcher Trophy for the most points

 

SN
BS

Rohnke

 

scored in track and field, the Pres Brown
Trophy for most valuable athlete, the Wink
Glasgow Award for spirit and sportsman-
ship, and the Memorial Swimming Trophy.
During his college years his teams compiled
the following records: 19-8 in track and field;
24-14-3 in soccer; and 27-4 in swimming.

 

Spessard

Bob Spessard was named to the All-State
and All-Southern Conference basketball
teams for three successive years, 1935-37.
During Washington and Lee’s game with
North Carolina in 1936 Spessard scored 25
points as the Generals won, 42-25. He was
selected for the Helms Foundation All-
American basketball team in 1937. That
same year he was also named to the College
All-State football team.

 

Young

Cy Young won 16 varsity letters during
his W&L career and was captain of all four
major sports. He led the football team in
scoring four straight years and was the
basketball team’s top scorer for three of
those years. On the baseball diamond, he led
the team in runs scored and stolen bases each
of the four years, and in track he ran the 100-
and 220-yard dashes, losing only one race
during his college career. He served as
W&L’s first alumni secretary until 1958 and
died in 1977.

 

30 =W&L

Alumni News

 

Classes of ’38, °63 Make Major Gifts to University

 

record number of alumni con-

verged on the Washington and Lee

campus to renew acquaintances
and reminisce during the annual spring reu-
nions in May.

More than 615 graduates and their
families came to Lexington for the three-day
event, which featured picnics, panel discus-
sions, the presentation of two major class
gifts, and plenty of enthusiasm.

Kicking off the festivities was a Thurs-
day evening address in Lee Chapel by
Philippe Labro, ’58, a well-known French
journalist and filmmaker and author of The
Foreign Student, a fictionalized account of
his years spent at Washington and Lee under
a Fulbright grant. The text of that talk can
be found beginning on page 6.

Meanwhile, members of the classes of
1938 and 1963 celebrated their SOth and 25th
reunions, respectively, by making major gifts
to the University. Announcement of the gifts
came during the Alumni Association’s an-
nual meeting in Lee Chapel on Saturday
morning.

Amid boisterous chants of ‘‘Thirty-
eighter Alligator,’’ the class slogan, class reu-
nion chairman Ernie Williams presented a
gift of $1,338,000 for the University’s
planned performing arts center and to
establish a fund to support faculty research
and scholarship outside the classroom.

Before leaving the platform, Williams
named W&L President John D. Wilson and
development associate Carter V. McNeese
honorary members of the class of 1938 and
gave them appropriate alligator
memorabilia.

Following that presentation, Charles
McCord, reunion chairman for the class of
1963, announced that his class has raised
$255,115 to begin a scholars-in-residence
program. The program will enable the
University to bring to the campus each year
two or three outstanding individuals in
various fields to present public lectures and
to meet with faculty and students.

In his remarks to the alumni, Wilson ex-
pressed the University’s gratitude to the two
reunion classes.

‘‘These gifts are a truly great contribu-
tion,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘They have opened up
a whole new dimension for us—the perform-
ing arts center, the endowment to renew and

 

 

 

This unusual decoration mysteriously found its
way to the top of Ol’ George on Saturday morn-
ing of reunion weekend.

Class of ’38 reunion chairman Ernie Williams is
serenaded by members of JubiLee, W&L’s new
women’s singing ensemble.

 

refresh our faculty, and the program to bring
visiting scholars to the campus. We thank
you from the bottom of our hearts.’’

Also during the morning meeting, the
Alumni Association’ presented its
Distinguished Alumnus Awards to three in-
dividuals. The recipients, who are chosen by
the association’s Board of Directors, were:
e Andrew H. Baur Jr., ’37, of St. Louis,
founder of Baur Properties;

e Omer L. Hirst, ’36, of McLean, Va.,
former member of the Virginia House of
Delegates and Senate;

e Earl T. Jones, ’30, of Raleigh, N.C.,
former president of Jesse Jones Sausage Co.

The three were honored for their profes-
sional and civic achievements and for their
service to Washington and Lee.

A former president of the Alumni
Association’s board of directors and a Lee
Associate since 1979, Baur also served as
chairman of his class’ 50th reunion fund-
raising campaign in 1987, which netted more
than half a million dollars.

Hirst is a charter member of the Lee
Associates and was a member of the com-
mittee that first sought to canvass an entire
class for a SOth-reunion capital gift. He also
serves on the committee to establish the
University’s new Center for the Performing
Arts.

A Lee Associate and a member of the
General’s Council, Jones has served as a class
agent for six times. For three of those years,
his class won the Richmond Trophy for
highest percentage of participation. He was
also the chairman of his class’ 50th reunion
celebration in 1980.

In addition to the Distinguished Alum-
nus Awards, the Alumni Association made
a special presentation to a friend of the
University. Charles W. (Murph) Murray was
recognized for his 30 years of service as
university proctor and was granted honorary
membership in the Alumni Association.

Leadership changes were announced in
the Alumni Association itself. W. Dan
McGrew, 752, of Atlanta took over the
presidency of the Board of Directors, suc-
ceeding John W. Folsom, ’73, of Columbia,
SA

Five new members were elected to four-
year terms on the board. They are John A.
Cocklereece Jr., ’76, ’79L, of Winston-

W&L 31

 

Salem, N.C.; Virginia Bumgardner Gar-
rison, ’75L, of Staunton, Va.; Edward F.
Meyers Jr., 61, °63L, of Novelty, Ohio; J.
Richard O’Connell, ’56, of Baltimore; and
William E. Smith Jr., ’63, of Birmingham.

The Law School Association elected Ray
V. Hartwell III, 69, ’75L, of Richmond as
its new president. He succeeds Mark B. Davis
Jr., °56, ’58L. New members of the Law
School Council are Parker A. Denaco, ’68L;
Mary Lee Doane, ’86L; and Johnny E. Mor-
rison, ’74, ’77L.

Chapter News

O.W. Tom Riegel, W&L professor of
journalism emeritus, was the 1988 recipient
of the Lynchburg Citation, awarded annual-
ly by the Lynchburg chapter. The chapter
presented the award during its annual ban-
quet in April.

Meanwhile in the Big Apple, the New
York chapter paid tribute to one of its own.
Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20, ’23L, was
honored for his 50 years of service to the
chapter at a June banquet at the Yale Club.
Speaking at the affair were Sol Wachtler,
’51, ’52L, chief judge of the New York State
Court of Appeals, and W&L President John

D. Wilson.

A number of chapters held special events
this spring for high school students who had
been accepted for admission to W&L. Those
chapters included New’ England,
Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Baltimore,
Florida West Coast, Atlanta, Houston,
Tidewater, Palmetto, Richmond, Mid-
South, Dallas, and Roanoke.

Members of the University’s faculty and
administration were on the road during the
spring visiting chapters throughout the coun-
try. Robert Fure, director of summer pro-
grams, and Chris Deighan, ’87, alumni staff
associate, traveled to Puget Sound for a
March dinner meeting. David Dickens, pro-
fessor of German, spoke to the Richmond
chapter in April, while Rick Heatley, direc-
tor of career development, visited the Dallas
and Houston chapters.

Professors Sam Kozak and Barry
Machado met with the Baltimore and
Delmarva chapters. Meantime President
Wilson and Alumni Secretary Richard
Sessoms attended a dinner meeting of the
Westchester/Fairfield chapter at the Stam-
ford Yacht Club.

Members of the Tidewater chapter

ushered in spring with their annual oyster
roast in late March. The Los Angeles,
Orange County, and San Diego chapters
joined forces to attend polo matches at Will
Rogers State Park.

In April the San Antonio chapter played
host to 12 W&L students and history pro-
fessor David Parker who were in the area to
attend a convention on Latin American
studies.

The Sarasota and Birmingham chapters
each held dinner meetings during the spring,
while the Kentucky Derby provided the oc-
casion for the Chicago chapter to assemble
for mint juleps.

In warmer regions of the country, both
the Gulf Stream and Palmetto chapters met
with graduates of other Virginia colleges for
group gatherings in their areas.

New Chapter Presidents

The following are new chapter presidents:
Birmingham—John H. Scruggs, ’77;
Dallas—William H. Biesel Jr., ’75;
Houston—J. Stanley Taylor, ’73;
Lynchburg—Robert B. Taylor, ’44;
Puget Sound—Alan M. Corwin, ’62;
Upper Potomac—Edward C. Chapman, ’70.

 

 

Winston-Salem, N.C.
Class Agent, 1985-88

AAP Chairman, 1987-88

 

Edward F. Meyers Jr., ’61, ’63L
Partner, Arter & Hadden
Cleveland, Ohio
Law School Council, 1980-84
Law Council Emeritus, 1984-88

 

John A. Cocklereece Jr., ’76, ’79L
Partner, Hendrick, Zotian & Cocklereece

University Athletic Committee, 1981-82
Winston-Salem Chapter President, 1983-88

New
-Alumni
Board

Members

 

Virginia Bumgardner Garrison, ’75L

Attorney/Private Practice
Staunton, Va.

W&L Adjunct Professor of Law, 1984-85

 

J. Richard O’Connell, ’56
Partner, O’Connell, Simmons & Kirk
Columbia, Md.

Class Agent, 1981-84, 1986-87
Beta Theta Pi Renovation Committee

Law School Council, 1979-83
Law Council Emeritus, 1984-88

   

3
William Eugene Smith Jr., ’63

President, Royal Cup Inc.
Birmingham, Ala.

Birmingham Chapter President, 1970-75
Class of ’63 Reunion Committee

 

32. W&L

 

 

 

 

Activities during reunion weekend were many
and varied. Clockwise, from top left, outgoing
Alumni Association Board of Directors presi-
dent John Folsom passes the gavel along to his
successor, Dan McGrew; alumni take advan-
tage of warm springtime weather to enjoy a
picnic lunch on the Front Lawn and visit with
classmates; Omer Hirst, ’36, Earl Jones, ’30,
and Andrew Baur, ’37, are this year’s reci-
pients of the Distinguished Alumnus Awards;
seven artists—Drayton Smith, ’74, Mark
Favermann, ’69, Claude Fixler, ’76, Turner
McGehee, ’75, Michael Kopald, ’73, Bill
Wysor, ’74, and Steven Roberts, ’76—gather
for a panel discussion about artistic careers;
alumni members of the Glee Club gather with
current members to present a concert in Lee
Chapel.

 

New Orleans, San Diego
Win Chapter Awards

 

 

During the award banquet in New Orleans, Wendy and Julian Good, ’78, display the plaque,
now hanging in the Alumni House, that recognizes the chapter’s achievement. Alumni Associa-
tion president John Folsom also presented Good with a certificate recognizing his service as presi-
dent of the chapter during 1986. (Photo courtesy of the Times-Picayune)

 

A

Enjoying the San Diego award ceremony in June were, from left, W&L President John D.
Wilson; Jet Taylor, ’84; John Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L; and new president of the Alumni Association
Board of Directors, Dan McGrew, ’52.

34. W&L

 

he New Orleans and San Diego

alumni chapters have been chosen to

receive the first annual Chapter of the
Year awards.

The awards, which were established last
fall by the Alumni Association, are given to
the best large chapter (more than 150
members) and the best small chapter.

Selection is based on a number of criteria,
including: the number and quality of chapter
meetings; the percentage of attendance at
those meetings; alumni admissions activity;
career assistance activity; percentage of An-
nual Fund participation; alumni scholarship
activity; compliance with the alumni chapter
manual; and local alumni efforts for the
University, including community involve-
ment and leadership.

W&L President Wilson officially
presented the awards to the winning chapters
during recent banquets in the two cities. The
two chapters will be permanently recognized
by a plaque that will hang in the Alumni
House.

Of Washington and Lee’s 86 alumni
chapters throughout the country, 32 qualify
as “‘large’’ chapters. Among those New
Orleans, with 192 members, ranks high in the
criteria of frequency of meetings, chapter
dues-paying support, and percentage of An-
nual Fund giving.

Additionally, the overall quality of
chapter programs and the visibility of W&L
alumni in civic leadership roles were also fac-
tors in the selection process.

“It is clear that the W&L people in New
Orleans love Washington and Lee and are
committed to the purposes for which the
University stands,’’ John W. Folsom, ’73,
then-president of the Alumni Association,
told the chapter during the award banquet
at the New Orleans Country Club in March.

During the San Diego award banquet at
the Colonial Inn in La Jolla, Calif., on June
25, new Alumni Association president Dan
McGrew told the members of the chapter
that they had been selected to win the award
because of their record of frequent meetings,
hospitality to W&L faculty and ad-
ministrators visiting in the area, and
outstanding efforts in the area of alumni
admissions.

“It is you, the alumni, and your respec-
tive chapters that establish W&L’s image
across the country,’’ McGrew said. ‘‘Your
Alumni Admissions Program volunteers seek
out and interview candidates for admission;
you assist the Career Development and
Placement Office with job placement and
career counseling; and generally you help
foster strong and supportive relationships
among alumni, local communities, and the
University.’

Graduating Sons and Daughters of W&L Alumni

 

1988 baccalaureate degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (left to right): James E. Newton, ’51, J. Edward Newton Jr.;
Henry M. Sackett Ill, ’64, °67L, Henry M. Sackett IV; James M. Boswell, ’57, J. Marshall Boswell Jr.; Howard C. Packett, ’58, John
E. Packett; Hugh L. Campbell, ’60, Gary H. Campbell; William S. Harrison, ’59, William S. Harrison Jr.; William W. Schaefer, ’60,
Patrick E. Schaefer; Gray C. Castle, 53, ’55L, Stephen R. Castle; John A. Voekel, ’*55, Swen A. Voekel; John D. Bassett III, ’59,
Wyatt P.E. Bassett; Julian C. Josey Jr., 60, D. Jordan E. Josey; Guy T. Steuart II, ’53, Carter M. Steuart and Hugh T. Steuart.

    

_
ea a

1988 baccalaureate degree recipients standing behind their alumni fathers (left to right): Louis R. Putnam, ’52 (not pictured), Andrew
R. Putnam; J.C. Peter Winfield, ’65, J.C. Peter Winfield Jr.; John L. Lancaster III, ’58, James R. Lancaster; Stephen H. Suttle, ’62,
Michael B. Suttle; Thomas P. O’Brien Jr., ’58, ’60L, Thomas P. O’Brien III; Robert G. McCullough, ’58L, John W. McCullough;
David B. Root, ’59, Bradley B. Root; Harry S. Cockey, *58, James D. Cockey; O. Brooks Pollock Jr., ’58, R. Coalter Pollock.

-

1988 law degree recipients standing
behind their alumni parents (left to
right): Jay F. Wilks, ’63L, David B.
Wilks; Henry W. Williamson, ’52,
John A. Williamson; John R.
Alford, ’57, ’59L, John R. Alford
Jr.; Virginia B. Garrison, ’75L,
Alan F. Garrison; William C.
Miller, ’58, ’61L (not pictured),
Monica L. Miller.

 

W&L 35

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$190.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$170.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available in natural dark pine stain,
with crest in five colors, at the same price as the black arm chair and rocker.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or
business address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone
number, if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

36

W&L

1925

Mackall Rust Bruin Jr. operates a 315-acre beef
cattle farm in Draper, Va. He is an elder emeritus
in the Draper Valley Presbyterian Church.

1926

Charles W. Lowry has been serving on the North
Carolina Commission on the U.S. Constitution

Bicentennial.
1927

Richard S. Barnett Jr. was inducted into the
Arkansas Agriculture Hall of Fame in March,
when the Greater Little Rock Chamber of Com-
merce recognized his leadership in agriculture and
his contributions to community and economic
development. Barnett lives in Altheimer.

1930

Dr. John P. Lynch of Richmond is writing a
history of St. Luke’s Hospital School of Nursing,
the first nursing school established in the South.
The school was founded in 1886 and graduated
its last class in 1986.

32

George Rose Smith, who recently retired after 38
years on the Arkansas Supreme Court, won The
Highest Effort Award in Law for 1988 from Sigma
Alpha Epsilon national fraternity. He lives in Little

Rock.
1933

Dr. Cary Frederick Irons Jr. works on a part-time
basis at the Family Practice Center at East
Carolina University School of Medicine. He lives
in Greenville, N.C.

Dr. Robert R. Smith was honored recently for his
48 years of service as a member of the medical staff
at Abington Memorial Hospital in Abington, Pa.
He lives in Ocean City, N.J., with his wife, Mary.

1934

Thomas D. Anderson received the first Leon
Jaworski Award from the Women’s Auxiliary to
the Houston Bar Association. The award was
established to honor Houston attorneys commit-
ted to community service.

Claude H. Barrick of Woodsboro, Md., has sold
his family lime business, S. W. Barrick & Sons
Inc., after 114 years of continuous operation.

Frederick D. Strong is serving as treasurer and a
director of Citizens Opposed to Domestic Abuse,
a non-profit organization that shelters abused
wives and children. He lives in Burton, S.C.

1938

Col. Ben L. Anderson retired recently after more
than 30 years of active Army service. Having
traveled to more than 50 countries on assignments
and official business, he now lives in Sierra Vista,
Ariz.

C. Price Berryman is a trustee of Coffeyville
Memorial Medical Center and commissioner of the
Kansas Department of Transportation.

Paul M. Miller spent much of the spring studying

 

 

 

 

French language and civilization at the Sorbonne
in Paris.

E. Alton Sartor Jr., a Shreveport, La.,
businessman, reigned as king for a day in April
during the city’s 40th Holiday in Dixie Cotillion.
His responsibilities included hosting the king’s
breakfast for the cotillion queen and riding in the
HID classic parade.

Although he is officially retired, Warren H. Ed-
wards still presides on a fairly regular basis over
the criminal division of the circuit court in Bonifay,
Fla.

Charles P. Lykes of Tampa, Fla., is the 1988
Civitan Club’s Citizen of the Year. As chairman
and chief executive officer of Lykes Bros. Inc.,
he has taken an active role in Florida’s agricultural
progress. In addition, he has led successful fund-
raising drives for both the University of Florida
and the University of South Florida.

Edgar F. Shannon Jr., president of the Universi-
ty of Virginia from 1959 to 1974, retired from the
university’s faculty in May. Shannon, the Linden
Kent professor of English literature and an
authority on 19th-century literature, particularly
Tennyson, was named professor emeritus by the
U.Va. board of visitors.

1940

James C. Green is a special consultant to the gover-
nor of North Carolina. He lives in Clarkton.

Peyton E. Rice received a distinguished alumnus
award from the University of Arkansas at Little
Rock during commencement exercises on May 21.
Rice attended Little Rock Junior College (UALR’s
predecessor) in 1936-37 before attending W&L. He
served the UALR Alumni Association as president
of the alumni board in 1982-83 and has been a
counselor to the board since 1984.

John C. Snidow Jr. of Christiansburg, Va., retired
in January from the bench of General District
Court for the 27th Judicial District of Virginia.
He had served the court since 1974.

1941

Allen T. Macaulay is a member of the board of
directors of the Eastern Ski Writers Association.
He and his wife, Betty, live in Wayne, N.J.

Robert C. Petrey, retired vice president of Eastman
Kodak Co., is serving as alderman for the city of

Kingsport, Tenn.
1942

W. Marshall Johnson was elected to another three-
year term on the board of directors and honors
court of the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame. He lives

in Richmond.
1943

Charles H. Smith of Alexandria, Va., is serving
as rector of Norfolk State University until 1989.
His term began in 1987.

1944

Earle Palmer Brown is 1988-89 chairman of the
Maryland Chamber of Commerce, a
1,500-member business association. He is chair-
man of the Earle Palmer Brown Cos., a public
relations and advertising agency in Bethesda, Md.

Dr. John William Runyan Jr. has been promoted
to university professor at the University of Ten-
nessee at Memphis. The title is the university’s
highest academic recognition. Runyan joined the
medical faculty in 1960. He founded the division
of endocrinology and the Endocrine Research

Laboratory, promoted the establishment of the
Memphis Chronic Disease Program, and helped
develop programs in geriatric medicine and in
health promotion and disease prevention.

1948

Donald E. Campbell is a founder and treasurer
of a new non-denominational church established
at Robert Louis Stevenson School in Pebble Beach,
Calif.

Gerald B. Henderson of Altoona, Pa., accepted
the Silver Teal Award from Ducks Unlimited on
behalf of his sports apparel company, SAF-T-
BAK. Ducks Unlimited, the largest wetlands con-
servation group in the world, presented the award
May 1 in Nashville, Tenn.

Edgar D. Holladay earned the title ‘U.S. Grand-
master Composer’’ in late 1987 from the Society
of U.S. Chess Problemists. The title is held by only
one other living American composer. He lives in
Carmel, Ind.

William L. Hopkins of Richmond has published
five books on Virginia court records since retir-
ing about five years ago. He also serves on the
boards of both the Jamestown Society and the
Virginia Genealogical Society.

H. Petrie Mitchell, a retired Presbyterian Church
administrator who spent much of his career in
Korea, is a volunteer at Mission Haven in Decatur,
Ga.

1949

The Rev. James T. Magruder is moving from
Atlanta to Louisville, Ky., as associate director for
interpretation with the Presbyterian Church
(USA). Magruder’s move is the result of the
church’s headquarters relocation.

Robert T. Pickett III is the author of Feedback
Control Systems for Technicians, a textbook
published by Prentice-Hall for use in community

colleges and technical schools. Pickett teaches at
Piedmont Virginia Community College in
Charlottesville.

G. Bruce West has embarked on a third career as
director of development and alumni and public
relations officer at Friends Academy in North
Dartmouth, Mass.

1950

Robert S. Dillon, deputy director general of the
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for
Palestinian Refugees, will assume the position of
president on Oct. 1. Dillon will be chief executive
officer of AMIDEAST, a non-profit organization
that uses education, training, and information pro-
grams to improve relations between Middle
Easterners and Americans.

The Rev. Frank M. Scarlett Jr., a hospital chaplain
with Universal Fellowship of Metropolitan Com-
munity Churches, ministers to patients with AIDS
and with ARC. He lives in San Francisco.

1951

Burton L. Litwin received the Outer Circle Critics
Award for his production of Stardust, named the
best off-Broadway musical in 1987. He will be pro-
ducing the show in Tokyo and Europe during the
1988-89 season, when he will also take his Tony-
nominated Sophisticated Ladies to Russia and
Europe. Litwin is retired from his law practice and
lives in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

Richard B. Taylor is part owner of a hotel-casino
resort on the Colorado River. The resort area, call-
ed ‘‘Laughlin,’’ is located in Nevada near the
borders of Arizona and California. Taylor lives
in Las Vegas.

1953

James M. Gabler of Baltimore is the author of a
second book on wine, How To Be A Wine Expert.

 

 

 

Phi Ep Alumni Hold Reunion

These members of Washington and
Lee’s chapter of Phi Epsilon Pi held a
reunion May 14 at the City —— Club
in New York City.

Those attending were, from left to
right, (front row) Les Levine, ’51; Ollie
Mendell, ’50; Art Marenstein, ’50; Steve
Lichenstein, ’53; Phil Phillips, ’51;

(Second row) Sol Wachtler, ’51, ’52L;
Sam White, ’50L; Merv Dorfman, ’45;

Elliott Schewel, ’54; Buddy Laupheimer,
‘30;

(Third row) Dan Pinck, ’46; Bernie
Levin, ’42, ’48L; Mike Laupheimer, ’53;
Bob Goldenberg, ’49L; Ronnie Levick,
’50; Ed Calechman, ’52; Mickey Abrash,
51; Jules Shaivitz, ’50;

(Fourth row) Dick Rosefeld, ’51; Al
Campbell, ’50, ’54L; Steve Sloan, ’54;
Morty Soloman, ’51.

 

 

W&L 37

 

 

E. Lee.

and such.’’

 

From Bench to Classroom

Patrick D. Sullivan, ’54, reports from Carmel, Ind., that he has been helping to
teach children in that city some valuable lessons about heroes and leadership.

Sullivan, a judge of the Indiana Court of Appeals, first became involved with
the gifted and talented program in Carmel’s schools to help students learn more about
the judicial system. But after that particular project was completed, 17 of the children
then embarked on a leadership study program. Each of them conducted research on
a different world leader, past or present, and then wrote a biography.

At the conclusion of the two-month study, Sullivan reports, a poll was taken.
Winning the distinction of ‘‘best all-around leader,’’ with six first-place votes and
approximately the same number of second-place votes, was none other than Robert

*‘With absolutely no modesty, I’ll claim some credit,’’ Sullivan acknowledges,
‘because during my involvement with the students I did a little sales job on heroes

 

 

Robert Parker Jr., America’s leading wine expert,
called the book ‘‘an excellent, practical, easy-to-
use guide that will appeal greatly to all wine
drinkers.”’

Samuel K. Patton is serving a four-year term on
the East Fishkill (N.Y.) Town Council and is on
the board of the community library.

Lee A. Putney of Richmond is chairman of the
board of Regency Bank, a small, independently
owned bank where business can be conducted over
the telephone or by personal courier service.
Business services are geared toward companies
with annual sales of up to $50 million, although
the majority of clients fall in the $5 million- to $25
million-a-year range.

1954

MARRIAGE: Dr. John R. Calvert and Carol Ann
Hubert on Oct. 17, 1987, in Roswell, Ga. Calvert
practices at the Atlanta Outpatient Surgery Clinic.

Walter W. (Pete) Crawford Jr. is president of a
metal fabrication business in Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Dr. H. Christopher Alexander III of Roanoke
serves as a delegate from the Medical Society of
Virginia to the American Medical Association.

W. Andrew Dalton is chairman of the board of
City Utilities in Springfield, Mo., where he is
managing partner of the law firm of Daniel,
Clampett, Lilley, Dalton, Powell & Cunningham.

The Rev. William L. Dols Jr. is executive direc-
tor of The Educational Center, a St. Louis institu-
tion engaged in the research and development of
religious educational methodology and resources.

Robert N. Fishburn, visiting lecturer at Virginia
Tech, conducted a workshop on editorials and op-
ed articles for members of the W&L faculty and
staff during the winter.

Walk C. Jones III, a Memphis architect, recently
completed six years of service as chairman of the
Montreat Conference Center of the Presbyterian
Church (USA).

Charles M. Patrick Jr., chief executive officer of
Alexander & Alexander, has moved from Dallas
to New York, where the headquarters of the
management services company are located.

1956

Dr. Oscar H. L. Bing is using a $500,000 grant
38 —-W&L

 

to spend five years studying the mechanism for
heart failure development with hypertension. He
is professor of medicine at Tufts University and
associate chief of staff for R&D at the Boston VA
Medical Center.

1951

William L. Kauffman is now president and chief
operating officer of B. Shehadi & Sons in Whip-
pany, N.J. He joined the firm in 1975.

Robert Bruce Kendall, a charter professor of the
National College of Criminal Defense Lawyers,
currently serves as president of the Tidewater Trial
Lawyers Association. He is past national chairman
of membership of the National Association of
Criminal Defense Lawyers and a member of the
Internal Platform Association and the National
Speakers Association. He lives in Virginia Beach
with his wife, Vicki, and two sons, Bobby and
Christian.

Dr. Harry T. Tully Jr., although no longer prac-
ticing medicine due to rheumatoid arthritis, co-
Owns a six-bed ambulatory surgery hospital. His
wife, Lynne, is the facility’s administrator. The
couple lives in San Leandro, Calif.

1958

Charles G. Crawford owns a construction firm
that specializes in rehabilitating older houses. He
and his wife, Patricia, live in Baltimore.

James J. Crawford Jr. spent 15 months in the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China, where he was acting resi-
dent manager of Sun Orient Exploration Co. He
has returned to Sun’s Dallas office.

Edward M. George Jr. is president of Wheeling
(W.Va.) Dollar Bank, the flagship bank of
Wesbanco Inc., a $600 million multi-bank holding
company. He is also vice president of Wesbanco
and is responsible for all loans for eight subsidiary
banks.

William Philip Laughlin moved to Milan, Italy,
in May for one year as Exxon’s project manager
for the conversion of the Singapore refinery. He
will spend the following year in Singapore.

E. Michael Masinter’s Atlan-
ta law firm joined the firm
of Troutman, Sanders,
Lockerman & Ashmore,
where Masinter is partner in
charge of the international
practice section.

C. Parkhill Mays Jr., a Florida attorney with
Holland &  Knight’s
Lakeland and Orlando of-
fices, is serving a three-year
term on the firm’s directors
committee. Eighteen part-
ners of the firm are on the
committee, which establishes
the general policies of the
firm.

 

Thomas D. Wilkerson is chairman of the board
of the University of Charleston in West Virginia.

1959
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John C. Morrison Jr., a
son, John Cooper IV, on Jan. 28, 1988. Morrison
is serving an eight-year term as judge of the Cir-
cuit Court for Virginia’s 4th Judicial Circuit. ‘i‘he
family lives in Norfolk.

John C. Bredehoft spent part of 1987 in Korea,
where he was establishing manufacturing opera-
tions for Texas Instruments Inc. He lives in Dallas.

John H. Esperian is an English instructor for a
new four-year program at American Samoa Com-
munity College. He lives in Pago Pago with his
wife, Brigitte, and their children, Justine, 7, and
Chris, 12.

Richard H. Horn is serving his second three-year
term as a member of the House of Delegates of
the Pennsylvania Bar Association. He is a judge
in the Court of Common Pleas in York.

Bertrand R. Hudnall II
became director of admis-
sions at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College on July 1.
He had been headmaster of
North Cross School in
Roanoke since 1978.

 

R. Kemp Morton III, an attorney from Hun-
tington, W.Va., is president of the West Virginia
State Bar.

Andrew T. Treadway started his own company,
Centennial Mortgage Corp., in 1987. The
Charlotte company provides construction and/or
permanent financing for income-producing prop-
erties in the Carolinas and Virginia.

1961

E. Michael Masinter (See 1958).
John C. Morrison Jr. (See 1959).

1962

Robert L. Stone changed law firms in Pensacola,
Fla., and joined William H. Clark Jr., ’60, ’63L;
Donald H. Partington, ’61, ’64L; Robert D. Hart
Jr., °63; W. Christopher Hart, ’68; and Millard
L. Fretland, ’83L.

1964

Philip S. E. Booth appeared in six episodes of
ABC’s ‘‘One Life to Live’? in February and
March. He played the role of Piccolino, an Italian
former circus giant. ABC was so pleased with
Booth’s work that representatives began calling
agents on his behalf.

Michael H. Bright, professor of English at Eastern
Kentucky University, received one of the univer-
sity’s first EKU Foundation Professorships,
established to recognize and encourage ‘‘creative,
self-motivated exemplars of the ideal college pro-
fessor.”’

 

F. William Burke is senior
vice president and general
counsel for American Securi-
ty Bank of Washington,
D.C. He serves as general
counsel for American Securi-
yo ty Bank, American Security
& Corp., and their subsidiaries.

He joined the firm in 1975.

Frederick E. Cooper is state chairman of the
George Bush for President campaign in Georgia.
He is vice chairman of the board for Flowers In-
dustries Inc. and lives in Thomasville.

Bill H. Kinsey is the author of two books published
by Croom Helm during 1987, Creating Rural
Employment and Agribusiness and Rural Enter-
prise. He lives in Keswick, Norwich, England.

 

G. Jeff Mennen, vice chairman of The Mennen
Co. in Morristown, N.J., has been named to the
first edition of Thunderbird Who’s Who by the
American Graduate School of International
Management.

R. Kemp Morton III (See 1959).

1965

William B. Boyle is a missionary in Guatemala,
helping refugees in the mountains where the guer-
rilla war has destroyed village economies and left
many homeless. His projects involve several one-
room schools and a sheep-breeding program to
help those who have lost their flocks.

William S. David is publisher of Sports A field, a
Hearst magazine. He lives in New York City.

Robert L. Stone (See 1962).

1966

Geoffrey C. Butler is head of Fort Worth (Texas)
Country Day School, a K-12 coed school with 950
students.

F. Scott Kennedy, associate professor of
biochemistry and molecular biology at Louisiana
State University School of Medicine in Shreveport,
was recently appointed coordinator of student

admissions.
1967

Ward W. Briggs Jr., professor of classics at the
University of South Carolina in Columbia, receiv-
ed the university’s Educational Foundation Award
for Scholarship in May. He is 1988-89 president
of the Classical Association of the Middle West
and South, the second-largest classical association
in the country.

F. William Burke (See 1964).

S. Bryant Kendrick Jr., founder of Thought Ware
Inc. in Winston-Salem, N.C., received the first an-
nual David Campbell Award for Innovation in
Human Resources Development from the Pied-
mont chapter of the American Society for Train-
ing and Development. The award recognized his
development of software for personal computers.

Lt. Col. John R. Miller is on a one-year fellowship
with the State Department. He lives in Fairfax, Va.

Dr. Harold W. Nase received the 1987 Community
Builders’ Award from Farmville (Va.) Masonic
Lodge No. 41. He is chief of staff and a director
of Southside Community Hospital, medical ex-
aminer for Prince Edward County, and a direc-
tor of Prince Edward Academy. He also serves as
scoutmaster for Troop 6518.

MARRIAGE: Charles M. Berger and Beverley W.
Cox on Sept. 26, 1987, in Charlotte. He is vice

president and assistant general counsel at NCNB
Corp. in Charlotte.

Edmund Howe Armentrout is president of the
Downtown Columbus (Ohio) Community Im-
provement Corp. and coordinates planning,
development, financing, and property leasing for
the city.

Joseph W. Brown, a Las Vegas, Nev., attorney,
was nominated by President Reagan to the State
Justice Institute, an 11-member board establish-
ed in 1985 to improve state court systems.

Dr. George J. Dover was recently promoted to pro-
fessor of pediatrics and medicine at Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine. He continues his
research in hemoglobin disorders.

W. Thomas Ingold moved to France in June with
his wife, Catherine, who is now president of the
American College in Paris.

A. S. (Sandy) Ryan Jr. of Westlake Village, Calif.,
wrote an article on what he terms ‘‘reverse sex-
ism,’’ which appeared in the April issue of Playboy
magazine.

Lt. Col. Frederick M. Stuhrke Jr. is back in the
states after six years in Brussels, Belgium, and
Heidelberg, West Germany. He serves at the Pen-
tagon on the Joint Staff in the Directorate of Com-
mand, Control, and Communications Systems
(J-6). He lives in Springfield, Va.

1969

MARRIAGE: Alan L. Stedman and Amy L.
Smith on July 18, 1987. The couple lives in Had-
donfield, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Daniel W. Higgins Jr., a
daughter, Alexandra Jane, on Jan. 26, 1988. Hig-
gins is vice president of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fen-
ner & Smith Inc. in Tulsa, Okla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. McClure Jr.,
a son, Donald III, on Nov. 25, 1987. McClure is
vice president of Dunavant Commodity in Mem-
phis, Tenn.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Robert D. McMullen, a
daughter, Deirdre Marie, on March 12, 1988, in
New York City. McMullen is a psychiatrist, prac-
ticing privately in Manhattan.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hasell Wright III,
a daughter, Emma Kate Chambers, on Feb. 21,
1988. The family lives in Charlotte.

M. McGill Fitzhugh III, a high school basketball
referee from Fairfax, Va., was selected to referee
the Virginia state finals in 1988. A four-time nor-
thern Virginia amateur golf champion, Fitzhugh
is employed by the U.S. General Accounting Of-
fice as senior evaluator.

James C. Hamill returned to the legal staff of the
Federal Trade Commission in Washington after
completing a year in residence at Yale University
on the Kramer Foundation Fellowship in Law and

Economics.
1970

MARRIAGE: Bruce O. Beckman and Susan
Elaine Noel of Trinidad, Colo., on May 1, 1988.
This summer, Beckman attended the FBI National
Academy in Quantico, Va., to enhance his posi-
tion with the Littleton, Colo., police department.
On a part-time basis, he also is in command of
the 193rd Military Police Battalion, Colorado Ar-
my National Guard.

Gordon W. Beall is pursuing his free-lance ar-
chitectural photography career and lives in
Bethesda, Md., with his wife, Carol, and two
children.

Dr. William M. Gottwald is now president of Ethyl
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which is a subsidiary of
Ethyl Corp. in Richmond.

Thomas Clay Groton III serves as administrative
judge of the Lower Eastern Shore of Maryland.
He lives in Snow Hill with his wife and two sons.

Charles A. Holt Jr., associate professor of
economics at the University of Virginia, spent six
weeks in Barcelona, Spain, this summer research-
ing economics. Holt and his family lived in Spain
last year while he was on sabbatical leave.

Dr. Michael R. Murphy is associate professor of
anesthesiology and director of surgical specialties
at Emory University in Atlanta, where he lives with
his wife, Christine, and sons, Michael Brendan,
11, and Patrick Ryan, 7.

MARRIAGE: J. Wade Taylor and Betty Keenan
on Aug. 15, 1987, in Houston, where the couple
lives.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Glasgow Jr.,
a son, Kyle Louis, on March 25, 1988. He joined
two older brothers, Chase, 5, and Scott, 2. The
family lives in Silver Spring, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Glenn, a son,
Ian, on March 9, 1988. Glenn is associated with
Royer and McGavock Ltd. Realtors in Charlot-
tesville, Va., and lives in Raphine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Christopher Lee, a
second daughter, Brittany Catherine, on April 28,
1988. Lee is chairman of the commercial litigation
department at the Philadelphia law firm of Bolger,
Picker, Weiner. The family lives in Stafford,
Pa.

Dr. Joseph B. Philips III is medical director of
Newborn Nurseries at University Hospital, the
University of Alabama at Birmingham. He serves
as principal investigator for the National Institute
of Child Health and Human Development.

Calvert S. Whitehurst is 1988 chairman of the
Alexandria (Va.) Young Republican Club. He is
a public affairs and legislative relations specialist
for Textron Inc. and does free-lance broadcasting
for a local cable television service.

1972

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. John B. Blalock Jr., a se-
cond son, Frank Melan, on Feb. 27, 1988. The
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Forrester, a son,
Michael Scott, on Jan. 25, 1988. He joined
brothers Bobby, 8, and Danny, 5. Forrester is a
captain for Continental Airlines and flies out of
Newark, N.J. The family lives in Sparta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James S. McCane, a son,
Jeffe David, on May 17, 1988. He joined an older
brother, Michael, 2. McCane is director of
marketing for Maritz Travel Co. in St. Louis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bartow W. Rankin, a
daughter, Katherine Osborn, on March 20, 1988.
Rankin is contract administrator for Roy Ashley
& Associates Inc., landscape architects and land
planners in Atlanta.

Kenneth B. Murov is serving a four-year term on
the Newport News (Va.) School Board. A part-
ner in the law firm of Jones, Blechman, Woltz &
Kelly, he lives in Newport News with his wife,
Robin, and three children, Sarah, Rachel, and
Jacob.

Col. Paul A. Robblee was reassigned to Japan in
June and serves as the Staff Judge Advocate, U.S.

W&L 39

 

Army Japan and IX Corps.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Crumpton, a
daughter, Adrian Roy, by adoption, on Feb. 9,
1988. Crumpton is a financial consultant in the
Kansas City, Mo., offices of Shearson, Lehman
Hutton.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald D. Eavenson Jr.,
a daughter, Courtney Power, on Dec. 15, 1987,
in Abington, Pa. She joined a brother, Ryan, 4.
Eavenson is director of marketing for Johnson &
Johnson’s McNeil Specialty Products Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David A. Kantor, a son,
Oren Heath, on July 30, 1987. He joined two
sisters, Nicole, 6, and Alissa, 3. Kantor is presi-
dent of Brothers Trading Co. Inc., the nation’s
largest promotional food wholesaler. The family
lives in Boca Raton, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Nimrod W. E. Long III,
twin daughters, Martha Reese and Joann Dunn,
on April 14, 1988. The family lives in Birmingham,
Ala.

Lawrence G. Cohen is general counsel of Esso
Japan, the Japanese affiliate of Exxon Corp.
Cohen and his wife, Kathie, and daughters, Jen-
nifer, 5, and Courtenay, 3, moved to Tokyo in
June and plan to spend four years there.

Dr. Ernest U. (Chappie) Conrad is director of the
Northwest Tissue Center, a ‘‘bone bank”’ organiz-
ed at the University of Washington Hospital in
Seattle to meet growing demands for bone
transplant surgery. Conrad is assistant professor
of orthopedics and director of the division of or-
thopedic oncology at the University of Washington
Children’s Hospital.

Charles W. Dunn is a partner and co-founder of
Middle Tennessee Equipment & Supply Co., a
Nashville wholesale distribution business which the
Nashville Business Journal named Small Business
of the Year in the 1-25 employee category.

Jay H. Kern, partner in the New Orleans law firm
of Simon, Peragine, Smith & Redfearn, is serv-
ing on the board of commissioners of the city’s
Downtown Development District.

The Rev. Laurie A. McAlpine was ordained to the
priesthood on May 17, 1988, at Trinity Episcopal
Church in Myrtle Beach, S.C., where he is assis-
tant rector.

Gary W. Poliakoff, partner in the law firm of
Poliakoff, Spears & Poole in
Spartanburg, S.C., serves on
the state board of the South
Carolina Trial Lawyers
Association. He was first
runner-up for the State Pro
Bono Lawyer of the Year
Award, which recognizes
lawyers in private practice
who donate legal services to
the underprivileged and to charitable projects.

Craig R. Williams recently purchased Cash Supply
Co. Inc., a Spartanburg, S.C., distributor of
specialty power tools, fasteners, and contractor

supplies.

MARRIAGE: Bradford N. Martin and Gwen-
dolyn G. Embler on Jan. 2, 1988. The couple lives
in Greenville, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James D. Farrar Jr., a
daughter, Katharine Dawson, on June 9, 1988. She
joined two brothers, Bois, 7, and Lyle, 3. Farrar
is assistant alumni director at W&L.

40 W&L

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. David Johnston, a
daughter, Taylor Leigh, on Oct. 19, 1987. She
joined a sister, Lauren. The family lives in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Watson Tebo Jr., a
daughter, Katherine Elise (Katie), on Oct. 6, 1987.
Her brother, Trey, is 4. The family lives in Baton
Rouge, La.

James N. Carr Jr. is presi-
dent of Ferguson-Carr
Advertising Inc. in Jenkin-
town, Pa. Ferguson-Carr,
formerly Ferguson Advertis-
ing, is an industrial and
technical agency with special
expertise in international
advertising.

 

Paul G. Cavaliere Jr. is principal of Plainville
Junior High School in Plainville, Conn.

David V. Finnell is the author of ‘‘The Sad Case
of Colonel William H. Christian,’’ which the Civil
War Society published in the spring 1988 issue of
Civil War magazine. Finnell recently completed
his second year as communicative skills officer at
the U.S. Army Engineer School in Fort Belvoir,
Va.

Richard J. (Joe) Golsan organized a Western
literature symposium held at Texas A&M Univer-
sity in April. The two-day event featured Rene
Girard of Stanford University. Golsan is on the
French faculty at Texas A&M.

Bryan E. McNeill, a Jesuit of
the New Orleans Province,
was ordained a priest on
June 4 in Mobile, Ala. He
celebrated his first mass of
thanksgiving the next day at
Loyola University.

 

Dr. D. Keith Payne is assistant professor of
medicine at Louisiana State University Medical
Center in Shreveport.

1975

MARRIAGE: William D. Cunningham and Ellen
M. Simpson on Jan. 9, 1988, at the Highland Park
Methodist Church in Dallas. The couple honey-
mooned in Hawaii and live in Houston. Cun-
ningham is legal counsel and vice president for
Kanaly Trust Co.

MARRIAGE: B. Spencer Heddens III and Susan
Jane Campbell on April 16, 1988, in Kansas Ci-
ty, Mo. Groomsmen included Robert A. Keatley,
75; Samuel M. Bell, ’75; and L. John Ratzel Jr.,
"75, *78L. Heddens is senior vice president of
Boatmen’s First National Bank of Kansas City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Rogers L. Crain, twin boys,
Alexander and Lawson, on March 3, 1988. Crain
is vice president of R. Lacy Inc. in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Cushing Jr.,
a son, Charles McKinnon III (Charlie), on April
5, 1988. Cushing is a partner with the Atlanta law
firm of Cushing & Morris.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. C. (Burr) Datz, a
daughter, Allison Jeanne, on Oct. 19, 1987. She
joined a sister, Katy, 4. Datz is assistant director
of security at W&L.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Randy L. Flink, a son,
Mason Harris, on April 23, 1988. Flink is acquisi-
tions manager for FS Realty Partners of Dallas,
a registered investment adviser for pension and en-
dowment funds. He is also director of Hoop-D-
Do, the world’s largest basketball tournament
whose 8,000 players raise money for Special
Olympics.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thad Grundy Jr., a son,
William Dodge, on March 19, 1987. Grundy is a
partner in the Houston law firm of Hutcheson &
Grundy, which has 72 attorneys. He specializes in
the law of federal deposit insurance.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. Steven W. Purtell, a
daughter, Tracy Elizabeth, on Jan. 23, 1988.
Purtell is a trial counsel at Fort Bragg in North
Carolina. He lives in Fayetteville with his wife,
Justine, and daughter.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Kennedy Simpson, a
son, William Fletcher, on May 24, 1988. Simpson
is an attorney with the Richmond law firm of
Wright, Robinson, McCammon, Osthimer &
Tatum.

T. Barry Davis has been awarded the ‘‘Master of
Excellence’ title at 3M/Media Networks in
Bethesda, Md., for the seventh time in nine years.
He won the Marbella Award and was ranked in
the nation’s top 10 for sales executives for the
eighth time in those years.

Edmond B. Gregory is president of the Frederick
(Md.) Jaycees, one of the top five chapters in the
state.

Dr. W. Jerome Knauer, who practices medicine
privately in Jacksonville, Fla., is president-elect
of the Florida Society of Ophthalmology for 1988.
He also serves as chief of the department of
ophthalmology at St. Vincent’s Medical Center
and is chairman of the medical advisory board of
the northeast Florida chapter of the Society for
the Prevention of Blindness.

Kenneth C. Miller III of Baltimore teaches English
at Gilman School, where he is dean of students
in the middle school. In April, he finished 219th
in the Boston Marathon.

A. Terrance Smith of Allentown, Pa., is president
of the Greif Co.’s Career Apparel Division.

1976
MARRIAGE: Neil L. Johnson and Rita Hum-

mingbird on April 30, 1988, in Shreveport, where
the couple lives.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Cavalier, twin
sons, Joseph Charles and Michael Thomas, on
Jan. 19, 1988. They joined a brother, Matthew
Peter, 4. Cavalier, a vice president with Citibank,
works in the bank’s domestic audit division in New
York City. The family lives in Middletown, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce B. Dunnan, a third
daughter, Heartie Merrill, on Feb. 7, 1988. She
joined Adelaide, 5, and Tory, 4. Dunnan is vice
president with the investment banking firm of Alex
Brown & Sons in Washington, D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. Hunt Hardinge, a son,
Daniel Addis, in December 1987. He joined a
brother, Tommy, and a sister, Hannah. Hardinge
lives with his family in Hagerstown, Md., and
works for the Statton Furniture Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Howell Morrison, a
daughter, Emily Wright, on Nov. 10, 1987. Mor-
rison is a partner with the Charleston, S.C., law
firm of Holmes & Thomson.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. P. Shepherd Rouse, a
daughter, Katherine Dashiell, on Feb. 2, 1988, in
Charlottesville, Va., where Rouse is vintner of
Montdomaine Wineries. Kate joined a sister,
Elizabeth, 3.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John T. Sadler, a daughter,
Mary McCall, on Oct. 23, 1987, in Aiken, S.C.
Sadler works for Dogwood Stable Inc., the leading
syndicator of thoroughbred racehorses.

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Patrick K. Sieg, a son,
Robert Patrick, on Jan. 30, 1988. After five years
abroad with Marriott Corp., Sieg has settled in the
Washington, D.C., area and is controller of the
Tyson’s Corner Marriott Hotel.

Harriet Dickinson Dorsey is substitute judge for
the General District Courts and Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Courts for the 27th Judicial
Circuit of Virginia. She lives in Blacksburg with
her husband, Glenn, and children, Andrew, Ellen,
and Tony.

Hiram Ely III, partner in the Kentucky law firm
of Greenebaum, Doll, and McDonald, is a member
of the firm’s executive committee. The partner-
ship is composed of approximately 100 lawyers in
Louisville and Lexington offices. Ely focuses on
business, corporate, and personal injury litigation
in Louisville.

Robert J. Grey Jr., an attorney with the Richmond
firm of Mays & Valentine, is serving on the board
of visitors of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University.

Louis P. McFadden Jr. opened his own law prac-
tice in Ventnor, N.J., in January.

1977

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas N. Keigler, a son,
William Thomas, on March 31, 1988. The family
lives in Timonium, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stuart W. Serenbetz, a son,
George Hunter, on Nov. 13, 1987. He joined a
brother, Tucker, 2. The family lives in Stamford,
Conn.

James R. Brooks is a partner with Global Special
Risks Inc. and recently opened a new office in
Houston for the Lloyds of London wholesaler.

Elizabeth Toni Guarino has been promoted to the
position of food and drug counsel with Kraft Inc.
She lives and works in Glenview, III.

Bradford N. Martin (See 1974).

Dr. Earl W. (Sandy) Stradtman moved to Augusta,
Ga., in July to begin a two-year fellowship in
reproductive endocrinology and infertility.

1978
MARRIAGE: David Ashley Addison and Heather
Howland Gurney on Dec. 22, 1987, in Vienna,
Austria. Addison is technical director of Austrian
Radio & Television in Washington, D.C. The cou-
ple lives in Arlington.

MARRIAGE: George F. Griffin TV and Linda
Susan Meyer on Nov. 7, 1987, in Washington,
D.C. Peter C. Keefe, ’78, was an usher. Griffin
works with Maloney Associates Inc. in Bethesda,
Md.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Liston A. Orr and Carolyn
D’Amour on May 21, 1988, in Wrightsville Beach,
N.C. Orr, a 1987 graduate of East Carolina School
of Medicine, spent last year completing an intern-
ship in internal medicine at Eastern Virginia
Graduate School of Medicine in Norfolk. In Ju-
ly, he began a residency in radiology at the Univer-
sity of South Alabama in Mobile. He is the author
of an article on cellular neurophysiology that was
published in Volume 128 (1987) of The Journal
of Experimental Biology.

MARRIAGE: James M. Underhill and Elizabeth
Bainly Burks on Sept. 26, 1987, in St. Louis.
Underhill was named senior vice president of the
Staubach Co., a commercial real estate firm bas-
ed in Dallas. He opened the company’s eastern
regional office in Washington, D.C. The couple
lives in Bethesda, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Christopher L. Camps, a
son, Jackson Lowell, on April 12, 1988. Camps
is marketing manager of Newsweek magazine in
New York City. The family lives in Greenwich,
Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Couch, a se-
cond daughter, Frances McCants, on April 17,
1988. The family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Alexius A. Dyer III, a son,
Alexius Aloysion IV, on May 6, 1988. He joined
two sisters, Caroline, 3, and Alessandra, 2. The
family lives in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Erik Scott Greenbaum, a
son, Clifton Scott, on Jan. 12, 1988. He joined
a sister, Virginia Gordon, 3. The family lives in
Charlottesville, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James B. Hayes, a
daughter, Elisabeth Catherine, on Aug. 11, 1987.
Hayes is a partner in the Boca Raton, Fla., law
firm of Meeker, Keeley, and Hayes.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. E. Brewington Houston Jr.,
a daughter, Meredith Franklin, on Jan. 20, 1988.
Houston, who has completed his training in
anesthesiology, practices medicine privately in
Austin, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James W. McClintock IV,
ason, James William, on Nov. 16, 1987. McClin-
tock is vice president of the North Riverside Ven-
ture Group, a venture capital investment firm in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. McKelway, a
daughter, Katherine Mosby, on Sept. 9, 1987. The
family lives in Mascot, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James S. MeNider III, a
second daughter, Mary Tyler, on Oct. 2, 1987.
McNider is an attorney with Willcox & Savage in
Norfolk, Va.

Charles M. Cushing Jr. (See 1975).

K. Lee Howard II is page one editor of The Day,
the New London, Conn., paper that the New
England Newspaper Association named
Newspaper of the Year in 1988. Howard is a
founder of Performers’ Co-op, an organization
devoted to writing and performing original plays
and music.

William C. Porth Jr. is the co-author of ‘‘Trim-
ming the Ivy: A Bicentennial Re-Examination of
the Establishment Clause,’”’ an article published
in the fall 1987 issue of the West Virginia Law
Review. Porth is a partner in the Charleston,
W.Va., law firm of Robinson & McElwee.

Capt. Gregory C. Sieminski is the author of an
article on Samuel Butler’s satiric use in The Way
of All Flesh of Carlyle’s Sartor Resartus. The ar-
ticle was published in a recent issue of English
Literature in Transition, 1880-1920. Sieminski is
instructor of English at the U.S. Military Academy
in West Point, N.Y.

MARRIAGE: Michael J. Doody and Patricia M.
Pergal on Oct. 3, 1987, in Annapolis, Md., where
Doody works for Master Builders Inc.

MARRIAGE: Cynthia L. Fausold and Lt. Cmdr.
John Joseph Schwanz on Oct. 17, 1987, at the
Shepherd of the Sea Chapel in Groten, Conn. She
is an attorney with the Groten law firm of O’Brien,
Shafner, Bartinik, Stuart & Kelly.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Dorsey, a
daughter, Maggee McNeal, on Oct. 1, 1987. The
family lives in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Habliston IV,
a daughter, Caroline Marion, on Feb. 19, 1988.
The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kevin T. McFadden, a
daughter, Margaret Donahue, on April 13, 1988.
She joined a brother, Kevin, 2. McFadden works
with Sanwa Bank of California in Los Angeles.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Moran, a
daughter, Megan Joy, on Nov. 1, 1987, in
Washington, D.C. The family lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David A. Newman, a
daughter, Laura Leigh, on Oct. 20, 1987. Newman
is a mortgage broker with Adams/Cates in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. Jeffrey Somers, a son,
Kevin Robert, on Jan. 29, 1988. He joined a
brother, Michael, 4. Somers is assistant corpora-
tion counsel for the city of Meriden, Conn., and
lives in Wallingford.

D. Keith Calhoun is an attorney with the law firm
of Mozley, Finlayson & Loggins in Atlanta, where
he lives with his wife, Louise, and two daughters,
Katie and Langley Aiken.

Louis P. McFadden Jr. (See 1976).

Robert C. Rogers has moved to Blacksburg, Va.,
where he is on a tenure-track position in the depart-
ment of mathematics at Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute and State University.

Lloyd E. Spear is commonwealth’s attorney for
the 20th Judicial Circuit of Kentucky. He lives in
Vanceburg with his wife, Courtney, and two sons,

Jay and Chad.
1980

MARRIAGE: Dr. George Brian Bauer and Rebec-
ca Bull on March 26, 1988, in Madison, Wis. Bauer
is resident physician at the University of Wiscon-
sin Hospital and Clinic.

MARRIAGE: Wade Arnold Forsman and Shan-
non Kaye McDaniel on Aug. 15, 1987, in Cana-
dian, Texas. Forsman is a law student at Southern
Methodist University in Dallas.

MARRIAGE: Michael O. Lavitt and Carol Ann
Craig on Oct. 24, 1987, in Sea Girt, N.J. Lavitt
is a copy editor at The Times in Trenton, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Arthur P. Caltrider Jr., a
daughter, Michelle Roper, on Oct. 1, 1987.
Caltrider is a partner in the Baltimore law firm
of Allewalt & Murphy.

BIRTH; Mr. and Mrs. John R. Clark III, a son,
Andrew Burrus Hutchison, on Feb. 23, 1988. He
joined a brother, John IV, 4. Clark is associate
counsel for Steuart Investment Co. in Washington,
D.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Eben D. (Dickey) Finney
III, a son, Eben D. IV, on March 25, 1988. Fin-
ney works for MNC Financial in Washington,
D.C., and lives with his family in Annapolis, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary Langan Goodenow,
a son, Gary Langan Jr., on Dec. 2, 1987, in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. Goodenow is an associate with
Hughes, Hubbard & Reed in Miami, practicing
commercial litigation with an emphasis on
securities.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Justice III, a
son, Tyler Reed, on April 7, 1988. He joined a
brother, Benjamin, 4. Justice is associated with the
Orlando office of the law firm of Shutts & Bowen.
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Morrison, a son,
William McGillibray, on March 11, 1988. The
family lives in Charleston, S.C.

W&L 41

 

BIRTH: Dianne Gibson Ringer and M. Wayne
Ringer, a daughter, Morgan Sarah, on Jan. 3,
1988. She joined a brother, Ben, 2. The family lives
in Portsmouth, Va.

BIRTH: Michele K. Skarvelis and Peter R. Roane,
a daughter, Anne Thompson Roane, on Nov. 13,
1987, in Charlottesville, Va. She joined a brother,
Philip Randolph Roane, 3.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Wissel, a
daughter, Ashley Machunze, on Jan. 21, 1988. The
family lives in Hartsdale, N.Y.

Gregory B. Dyer opened an accounting firm, Dyer
& Associates, in Bethesda, Md., where he lives with
his wife, Diane, and daughter, Katie.

Kurt J. Fischer works for Piper and Marbury in
Baltimore. He lives in Towson with his wife and
son, Robert Tyler, who is 1.

Joan M. Gardner is government affairs counsel
in the Richmond office of Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Virginia. She directs corporate activities
relating to state and federal administrative mat-
ters, legislation, and regulations.

Robert E. Hummel is assistant vice president of
First Midwest Bancorp in Naperville, Ill. He also
serves as a tutor for Literacy Volunteers of
America.

Theodore B. Martin Jr. is a principal at Nordeman
Grimm Inc., a Chicago executive search firm. In
the Lake Michigan Annual Spring Sport Fishing
Contest, his 24-pound, 12-ounce rhino fish won
the ‘‘Gaffe and Spelunker’’ competition.

John W. McAlister is a community issues specialist
in the corporate communications department of
Duke Power Co. in Charlotte. He is a guber-
natorial appointee to the North Carolina Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Management Authority.

Alan A. Sant’Angelo, a deputy attorney general
in New Jersey, is the prosecuting attorney in State
v. Rosemary Scorp, the case involving the alleged
enslavement of five elderly women that has receiv-
ed national media coverage. Sant’Angelo was
recently promoted to chief of the labor investiga-
tions and litigation unit in the attorney general’s
office.

Peter B. Taylor of Purcellville, Va., spent the past
four years in Saudi Arabia as manager of finance
and accounting for a United States-Saudi joint ven-
ture. He provided technical services and training
to the Royal Saudi Navy.

MARRIAGE: W. Tobin Cassels and Helen
Patricia Hook of Columbia, S.C., on Aug. 29,
1987. The couple lives in Columbia.

MARRIAGE: John J. Fox III and Nancy M.
Jones on April 23, 1988, in Thomasville, Ga. John
J. Fox Jr., °57, was best man. Groomsmen includ-
ed Harry T. Jones III, ’78; W. Powell Jones, ’81;
Christopher H. Greatwood, ’81; Thomas E. Fox,
90; and J. Andrew Fox, ’92. The couple lives in
Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: Patrick M. Robinson and Jennifer
Slingluff on May 21, 1988, in Rumson, N.J. The
couple lives in New York City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Eisen, a son,
Jonathan Seth, on Dec. 27, 1987. Eisen is an
associate in the law firm of Margulis & Grant in
St. Louis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John B. Street, twins, Emi-
ly Spencer and Kevin Michael, on April 12, 1988.
Street practices law with the firm of Phillips &
Street in Chillicothe, Ohio.

42 W&L

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Warren W. (Woody)
Woodring, a daughter, Helen Carter, on Sept. 27,
1987. Woodring is vice president of Third National
Bank in Nashville in the health-care lending group.

Dr. Edward G. Brooks completed a medical
residency in pediatrics in June and has begun a
research fellowship in immunology at the Univer-
sity of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston.

John J. Gifford is a staff attorney with the Virginia
Department for Rights of the Disabled in
Richmond.

Warren P. Kean is the author of an article on the
Tax Reform Act of 1986, which was published in
the February issue of the Louisiana Bar Journal.
Kean is associated with the New Orleans law firm
of Phelps, Dunbar, Marks, Claverie & Sims.

Allan G. King is spending the summer working for
Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City as a
summer intern in North America corporate
finance. This fall, he will be a second-year student
in the MBA program at the University of Texas
in Austin.

James S. McNider III (See 1978).

D. Bruce Poole, an attorney in Hagerstown, Md.,
serves on the Judiciary Committee of the Maryland
legislature. Last fall, he traveled to China with 10
other elected officials to meet with representatives
of the Chinese government.

John P. Purcell is conducting research in
biotechnology for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture in Beltsville, Md. He holds a Ph.D.
in molecular and cellular biology from the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts at Amherst.

Mark W. Scully of Simsbury, Conn., was
designated a fellow of the Casualty Actuarial
Society in November 1987.

Michael C. Smith, assistant vice president of Mer-

 

rill Lynch Securities Co., joined the company’s in-
vestment banking group in Tokyo in April.

Dr. Isaac L. Wornom III completed a residency
in plastic surgery at Emory University in June and
has moved to Wyndmoor, Pa., to begin a
fellowship in craniomaxillo-facial surgery at the
University of Pennsylvania.

1982
MARRIAGE: Philip M. Browne and Kathleen S.
Block of Willow Grove, Pa., on June 18, 1988.
Browne is a manager with Arthur Andersen in
Philadelphia.

MARRIAGE: John W. Martin and Susan Diane
Grow on March 5, 1988, at Cannon Memorial
Chapel at the University of Richmond. The cou-
ple honeymooned in the Orient for a month. Mar-
tin has been promoted to vice president of account
services at Siddall, Matus, and Coughter Inc., a
Richmond-based advertising agency.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James L. Chapman IV, a
daughter, Elizabeth Susan, on April 9, 1988, in
Virginia Beach.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James E. Dunn Jr., a sec-
ond son, Fletcher Willingham, on March 31, 1988.
Dunn is owner of Coleman Envelope and Prin-
ting Co. in Greensboro, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Y. Savage, a
daughter, Hannah Marie, on April 21, 1988. The
family lives in Fredericksburg, Va.

BIRTH: Lizanne Thomas and David W. Black,
ason, Roger Thomas Black, on May 5, 1988. The
family lives in Atlanta, where Thomas is an at-
torney with Hansell & Post and Black is assistant
editor of the Atlanta Business Chronicle.

Dr. Harold R. Bohlman III is chief of optometry
in the 24th Medical Detach of the U.S. Army in
Schweinfurt, West Germany.

 

Frank W. (Tripp) Brower III
is managing director of the
Midwest United States for
Tomlin Properties Inc., a
‘ Dallas-based investment firm

‘ specializing in predevel-
wl opment land.

Robert M. Couch (See 1978).
Kurt J. Fischer (See 1980).

G. Mackey Grimball Jr. is completing an ad-
ministrative fellowship at Medical College of
Georgia Hospitals and Clinics in Augusta. He
holds a master’s degree in health administration
from Duke University.

   

Timothy R. Harris is co-founder of Harris & Har-
dy, a CPA firm in Richmond. Harris started the
firm with VMI graduate Bill Hardy in January
1986.

J. Andrew Lark, partner in the law firm of Lark
and Sullivan in New York City, serves as national
trustee on the national board of Boys Clubs of
America.

Michael J. Malesardi is audit manager of Price
Waterhouse and is spending two years in the com-
pany’s Calgary office in Alberta, Canada. He is
enrolled in the managers’ international program.

For the second straight season, Michael J. Pressler,
head lacrosse coach at Ohio Wesleyan Universi-
ty, took his team to a number-two finish in Divi-
sion III this spring and was named North Coast
Athletic Conference Coach of the Year.

Robert M. Waymouth recently completed his
postdoctoral studies at the Swiss Federal Institute
of Technology in Zurich. He returned to the
United States after accepting a position as assis-
tant professor of chemistry at Stanford University.

1983

MARRIAGE: Robert C. Brod Jr. and Catherine
M. Bissinger on March 26, 1988, in Wallingford,
Pa. The couple honeymooned at Paradise Island
in the Bahamas. Brod is a flight instructor with
New Garden Aviation Inc. in Toughkenamon, Pa.,
and works part time as the co-pilot of a Super King
Air BE-300 for Tekloc-Enterprises in Malvern, Pa.
He and his wife are also expanding their
Philadelphia-based aerial photography business,
The Leading Edge.

MARRIAGE: James Wilson Hartz and Catherine
Virginia Barnes on April 9, 1988, in Atlanta.
Groomsmen included H. Brady Millican III, ’83,
and Eric T. Myers, ’82. Hartz is employed by the
Virginia Power Co. and lives in Alexandria, Va.

MARRIAGE: Mark C. Shuford and Laura
Weldon Sams on Nov. 28, 1987. Douglas L. Law-
ing, ’86L, was a member of the wedding party.
Shuford is an attorney with the law firm of Stites
& Harbison in Louisville, Ky.

MARRIAGE: James E. Stanley and Susan Leigh
Plaster in South Boston, Va., on June 20, 1987.
The wedding party included Patrick McGuire, ’84,
William Self, ’83, and Marty Thomas, ’83. Stanley
is a nuclear engineer with Baltimore Gas and Elec-
tric in St. Leonard, Md.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Michael Blake Streiff and
Lauren Dundes of Berkeley, Calif., on June 11,
1988. Streiff, a 1988 graduate of Johns Hopkins
University Medical School, began a residency in
internal medicine at the University of Florida in
July.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. Steward Butler Jr., a

son, Matthew Emanuel, on Jan. 9, 1988. The fami-
ly lives in Lewiston, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mark R. Carduner, a son,
Bradley Scott, on April 18, 1988. The family lives
in Cranbury, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Price Morrison Jr., a
second daughter, Dial Gray, on Oct. 25, 1987.
Morrison practices law with Martin, Tate, Mor-
row & Marston in Memphis, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stephen D. Palmer, a
daughter, Brittany Cay, on Feb. 25, 1988. The
family lives in Reston, Va.

William F. Connors was awarded a National Doc-
toral Fellowship in Business and Management by
the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of
Business. He plans to use the fellowship this fall
in the Ph.D. program in finance at the University
of Chicago. Connors is an associate in the
Municipal Finance Department of Drexel Burn-
ham Lambert in New York City.

John F. Delehanty is vice president of sales with
Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., an investment banking
firm in New York City.

As associate director of legislative affairs for the
National Association of Federal Credit Unions,
Charles L. King lobbies on Capitol Hill for federal-
ly chartered credit unions. He holds a law degree
from George Mason University.

Bennett L. Ross is associated with the law firm
of Bass, Berry & Sims in Nashville, Tenn. He holds
a law degree from Vanderbilt University, where
he was editor-in-chief of the Vanderbilt Law

Review.
1984

MARRIAGE: Michael S. Craig and Evi Wilson
on Dec. 19, 1987. Groomsmen included Roy A.
Craig Jr., °53; John A. Craig, ’79; David J.
Bamonte, ’84; Scott M. Stevenson, ’76; T. Garic
Moran, ’84; Corydon M. Johnson Jr., ’83; and
M. Lee Shearin Jr., ’84. The couple lives in Lake
Wales, Fla.

MARRIAGE: James L. Fay Jr. and Wesley
McGehee Harrell on June 4, 1988. Included in the
wedding party were James A. Skinner III, ’84; M.
Emery Ellinger III, 84; and C. Reynolds Thomp-
son III, ’85. The couple lives in Cataula, Ga.

MARRIAGE: James P. Laurie III and Melissa
Suzanne Carrington on Nov. 28, 1987, in Knox-
ville, Tenn. Christopher C. Flaesch, ’84, was best
man. The couple spent their honeymoon in
Singapore, Bangkok, and Hong Kong. Laurie is
human resources director for Allied Printing Ser-
vices Inc., a print manufacturer in Manchester,
Conn.

MARRIAGE: Richard C. Swagler Jr. and Susan
R. Schonberger on Oct. 10, 1987, in Montgomery,
Ala. Groomsmen included Kevin Y. Berger, ’84,
and John M. Cleghorn, ’84. Swagler is a student
at Stetson University College of Law in St.
Petersburg, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James E. Messer Jr., a son,
James Elliott III, on Aug. 31, 1987. Messer is flight
operations officer for G Company, 4th Aviation
Regiment in Bad Kreuznach, West Germany.

Lewis M. Allen is working as an artist in the Rich-
mond area.

Paul F. Chapman earned a Ph.D. in psychology
from Stanford University this spring. He and his
wife, Michelle, moved to New Haven, Conn.,
where he is a postdoctoral fellow at Yale
University.

Powell M. (Nick) Leitch III is an attorney with
the Covington, Va., law firm of Kostel, Watson,

| Snyder & Stephenson.

Daniel E. Riley is associate director of planned giv-
ing in the office of university development at the
University of Virginia.

Lt. Parker B. Schenecker recently received the
Army Commendation Medal and the Air Force
Achievement Medal. He is battalion adjutant with
the 18th Military Intelligence Battalion in Munich,
West Germany.

Alfred P. Tibbetts formed the law firm of Tib-
betts & Keating in Darien, Conn., and practices
real estate, corporate, estates, and trust law. He
lives in New York City.

Edwin D. Vaughan III earned a master of business
administration degree in health-care administra-
tion from the Baruch College/Mount Sinai School
of Medicine in New York City. He lives in
Hoboken, N.J., with his wife, Melissa.

T. Jeffrey Wells is a clerk for Judge Bernard G.
Barrow on the Virginia Court of Appeals in
Virginia Beach. He holds a law degree from the
University of Virginia.

MARRIAGE: Albert B. (Jay) Boggs Jr. and Ruth
Dowdell Todd of Centreville, Md., on May 21,
1988. J. Alexander Grimsley, °’86, was a
groomsman. Boggs is a senior consultant with the
accounting firm of Price Waterhouse in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: Lt. Richard A. DeForest and Helen
Shingler on Jan. 23, 1988. DeForest is assigned
to Camp Pendleton in California.

MARRIAGE: Benjamin F. Emanuel III and
Tracey E. Bowen on May 28, 1988. Emanuel is
involved in international tax law in New York City.

MARRIAGE; Thomas C. Imeson III and
Penelope Paul in September 1987. The couple lives
in New York City.

James T. Berry Jr. is a senior accountant with the
Dallas office of Coopers & Lybrand, a ‘‘big eight’’
CPA firm. He lives in Dallas with his wife, Tracy.

Steven G. Logan is an employee benefits represen-
tative in the Trumbull, Conn., office of Aetna Life
and Casualty. He lives in Milford.

Angeline F. Mathis is assistant attorney general
in the office of the attorney general of Georgia.
She lives in Marietta.

MARRIAGE: William E. Blackstone and
Elizabeth R. F. Kennedy, ’87L, on May 21, 1988,
in Columbia, Tenn. |

MARRIAGE: Michael J. McLaughlin and Julie
Halloran on Aug. 22, 1987. McLaughlin is an
associate with the Philadelphia law firm of
Morgan, Lewis & Backius.

MARRIAGE: 1st Lt. John S. Sanders and Kathy
Bryan of Jacksonville, Fla., on April 30, 1988.
Sanders serves on the East German border with
the U.S. Army.

BIRTH: Sarah Lemon Ludwig and Kirk A. Lud-
wig, a daughter, Catherine Kirkbride, on Feb. 10,
1988. The family lives in Norfolk, Va.

Robert I. Stolzman is legal counsel to the Rhode
Island Senate Committee on Corporations. He
lives in Providence.

David F. Thomas is an NBC page in New York
City and witnesses the taping of ‘‘Late Night with
David Letterman.’’ He also works for NBC Sports
and assisted the television production of the
American League Championship Series and the
1988 Orange Bowl Classic.

Joseph E. Vidunas is highway contract ad-
ministrator in the Leesburg, Va., office of the

W&L 43

 

Virginia Department of Transportation. His duties
include developing construction, maintenance, and
other projects to the advertisement stage.

Clifford F. Wargelin was named one of approx-
imately 140 national recipients of a Jacob K. Javits
Graduate Fellowship, which includes payment of
tuition and fees and a stipend of up to $10,000 a
year. The fellowship is renewable for four years.
He is a second-year student in the Ph.D. program
in European history at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison.

MARRIAGE: Scott J. Ferrell and Leslie Ann
Jackson on July 16, 1988, in Bedford, Va.

MARRIAGE: David A. Shugart and Elizabeth
Dudley Lancaster on April 23, 1988, in Buck-
ingham, Pa. Ushers included Scott J. Ferrell, ’87,
and Brent M. O’Boyle, ’87. Shugart is stationed
in West Germany with the U.S. Army.

George A. Berger II is pursuing a master of arts
degree in American studies at the University of
Alabama in Tuscaloosa. He is editing a volume
of recent Southern short stories and will begin a
teaching assistantship this fall.

Elizabeth R. F. Kennedy (See William E.
Blackstone, ’86).

Powell M. (Nick) Leitch III (See 1984).

Paul J. Smith is pursuing a master of arts degree
in area studies (the Far East) with a major in
history at the School of Oriental and African
Studies, University of London. His studies em-
phasize the history of modern military institutions
of China, including the People’s Liberation Army.

 

In Memoriam

 

1917

William Calvin Wells, senior partner of the Wells,
Moore, Simmons, Stubblefield & Neeld law firm
in Jackson, Miss., died May 17, 1988. Wells earned
a law degree from Harvard University in 1921 and

had practiced corporate law in Jackson since then. —

During his career, he served as general counsel for.
Lamar Life Insurance Co. and for Hinds-Rankin
Metropolitan Water and Sewer Association Inc.
He was a director for First National Bank, Mort-
gage Bond & Trust Co., Corinth & Counce
Railroad Co., Mississippi Valley Title Insurance
Co., and Jackson Packing Co. He was past presi-
dent of the board of directors of Jackson’s
YMCA, past president of the North Jackson
Kiwanis Club, and a director of the Jackson
Chamber of Commerce.

1918

Isaac Hill Woodson, a retired rural mail carrier
with the U.S. Postal Service, died Oct. 17, 1987,
in Roanoke. He lived most of his 93 years in
Rockbridge County. An active Mason, Woodson
was anointed Holy Order of High Priesthood of
Virginia and was a three-time illustrious master in
the Grand Council of the Commonwealth of
Virginia. He was past master and honorary
member of the Mountain City Lodge, past high
priest of the Rockbridge Masons, and Royal Arch
Mason. He was a member of Lexington
Presbyterian Church.

44 W&L

1919

Howard Paul Arnest, an attorney who maintain-
ed a private practice in Portland, Ore., for 69
years, died March 22, 1988. After attending col-
lege in New Mexico, he taught school and then
moved to Virginia to attend W&L’s law school.
Arnest opened his law office in 1919 and continued
his general practice and work with real estate un-
til he died at the age of 93. At the time of his death,
he was serving clients four days each week and
spent the fifth day assisting shut-ins with their legal
problems. He was a 33rd degree Scottish Rite
Mason, past master of the Lents Masonic Lodge
in Portland, and a member of the International
Club and the B.P.O. Elks, Milwaukie Lodge No.
2032.

1922

Dorsey Flemons Flagg, owner and operator of the
Flagg Motel in Martinsburg, W.Va., from 1954
to 1973, died May 11, 1988. After graduating from
Martinsburg High School in 1918, he attended
W&L for one year and then worked in Baltimore
as an alloy chemist for Baltimore Copper. He later
worked for Massilon National Pressed Steel Co.
and Swift and Co. Fertilizer in Cleveland. He
returned to Martinsburg in 1922, when he purchas-
ed a grocery store. Flagg was a charter member
of the Martinsburg Lions Club and a member of
the Isaac Walton Club. He also was a member and
trustee of First Presbyterian Church.

Lewis Murphey Henry, a retired physician from
Fayetteville, Ark., died May 5, 1988. After
graduating from W&L, he earned his medical
degree from the University of Tennessee. During
World War I, he served in the U.S. Army and dur-
ing World War II reached the rank of major in
the Army Air Corps. A 50-year member of the
Arkansas Medical Society, Henry also was past
president of the Sebastian County Medical Socie-
ty. He was a member of the Noon Civics when he
lived in Fort Smith, Ark., and was involved in the
Fayetteville Rotary Club. At the time of his death,
he was a member of Central United Methodist
Church.

George Walton Taliaferro, a longtime Harrison-
burg, Va., businessman and former member of the
Virginia House of Delegates, died March 19, 1988,
while visiting his family in New York. After earn-
ing a law degree from W&L, he worked for more
than 60 years as a real estate broker and insurance
and property management agent. From 1944 to
1948, he served two terms in the House of
Delegates. In the 1950s, he served several terms
on the Harrisonburg City Council. He was a
former vice president of Rockingham Public
Library and chairman of the building and finance
committee. During his career, he served on the
board for the library and for Harrisonburg
Telephone Co. and Virginia National Bank.
Taliaferro was a member of Asbury United
Methodist Church.

Anselm Lynch Ward, a retired attorney from
Lynchburg, Va., died Feb. 25, 1988. After atten-
ding W&L for less than one session, he worked
in the lumber business, studied law on his own,
and then passed the Virginia bar in 1932. Ward
maintained a private practice for two years before
serving as assistant commonwealth’s attorney. He
then worked with the firm of Barksdale and Ab-
bot and later with Abbot, Ould, and Ward. In
1949, he was appointed United States commis-
sioner for the Lynchburg area but resigned two
years later to return to an independent practice.
He joined the firm of Edmunds, Baldwin, and

Graves in 1964 but once again returned to private
practice before retiring in the late 1970s.

1923
Kelly McKee Patterson died Feb. 15, 1988. He was
the retired owner of Roberts County Abstract Co.,
a company which compiled abstracts to land titles
in Texas. He had lived in Miami, Texas, since
1962.

1925

Charles Latham Gaines Jr., retired vice president
of Shook & Fletcher Supply Co. of Birmingham,
Ala., died March 14, 1988. He attended W&L for
two years and graduated from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1926. He pursued a
career in general contracting and in 1945 joined
Shook & Fletcher. He retired from the supply, con-
struction, and ore and coal mining business in
1973. During his lifetime, he served as president
of the Birmingham Boys Club and the Birmingham
Girls Club. He also was co-chairman of United
Appeal, president of the Better Business Bureau,
treasurer of Methodist Hospital Inc., and a
member of the board of directors of the Diabetes
Trust Fund, St. Vincent’s Hospital, and Birm-
ingham University School. Gaines was a member
of Cathedral Church of the Advent.

Walter Earl Limpert died Jan. 11, 1988. He was .
a retired accounting supervisor with Eaton Corp.

of Ohio and lived in Riverview, Fla., at the time
of his death.

Edgar Taylor McHenry, the 40-year owner and
president of Germantown Hardware Co. in Ger-
mantown, Tenn., died April 3, 1988. After attend-
ing W&L for one year, he worked in the cotton
business in Memphis until World War II. He serv-
ed 46 months as a first lieutenant in the Pacific
Theatre and participated in the liberation of the
Philippines. After the war, he opened his hard-
ware business and remained active with the enter-
prise until March 1988. He was past president of
the Germantown Business Association and chair-
man of the Germantown Civic Club Welfare Fund.
McHenry enjoyed beekeeping and painting and
was a charter member of his local Kiwanis Club.
He had served several years as scoutmaster for an
area Boy Scout troop and was a member of
Calvary Episcopal Church.

Charles Thomas Munholland died Jan. 15, 1988.
After graduating from W&L, he entered Tulane
Law School and earned his law degree in 1927. He
returned to his hometown of Monroe, La., where
he practiced law for more than 50 years.
Munholland served on the boards for Noe Enter-
prises Inc., WNOE Inc., Macon Ridge Land Co.
Inc., and Ouachita Realty & Development Co. Inc.

Joseph Shuman, retired managing editor of the
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, died Jan. 19, 1988. In
1925, he became telegraph editor for the
Charleston (W.Va.) Gazette and later served the
paper as Sunday editor. By 1930, he had joined
the Pittsburgh newspaper and served as feature
editor and city editor before becoming managing
editor in 1960. He retired in 1973. Shuman serv-
ed on the Pulitzer Prize journalism jury in 1967,
was on the board of directors of Point Park Col-
lege, and was a director of the Pennsylvania
Associated Press Managing Editors Association.
In 1956, he was elected to the board of Sigma Delta
Chi, a professional journalism society.

1926

Ralph I. Daves, retired manager of the State and
Lyric theatres in Lexington, Va., died Feb. 4, 1988.

 

Upon graduation in 1926, he became manager of
the New Theatre, which was later renamed the
State. He served Lexington’s movie business for
about 50 years. During his lifetime, he was presi-
dent of the Lexington-Rockbridge Chamber of
Commerce, director of the district council of the
Boy Scouts of America, chairman of the Com-
munity Chest, and a longtime volunteer for the
United Fund. He also served as treasurer and a
member of the executive committee and the board
of Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Herndon Surface Peirce, who retired in July 1987
after surveying in the Danville, Va., area for 53
years, died Jan. 24, 1988. A resident of Danville
since 1928, he was a member of Mount Vernon
United Methodist Church and the local Kiwanis

Club.
1927

John Hunter (Chili) Bean died Feb. 18, 1988. After
attending W&L for two years, he became a
salesman for Virginia Public Service Co. and then
joined the West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co. in 1933.
During his career, he served as safety engineer with
the Army Corps of Engineers for the Gathright
Dam Project. Bean was a member of Granbury
United Methodist Church.

Norman Jacob Berlin died Oct. 14, 1987. He at-
tended W&L for two years and earned a bachelor’s
degree from Cornell University. He practiced law
in New York for 20 years and then organized
Berlin-Miles-Richels Real Estate Investments in
Norfolk, Va. He was a member of the United
Jewish Federation and the Weizmann Institute.

Charles Luther Claunch, a retired attorney from
Chattanooga, Tenn., died March 29, 1988. He
earned both his bachelor’s and law degrees from
W&L. He began his law practice in Chattanooga
and later established the firm of Claunch,
Schumaker & Thompson. Until his retirement not
long before his death, he was of counsel to the firm
of Stophel & Stophel. During his career, he lec-
tured at a number of universities and before
various professional groups on taxation, wills,
trusts, and estates. Claunch served as a deacon at
First Baptist Church of Chattanooga, where he
also taught Sunday school for 25 years.

Neill Bost McKinney of Cleveland, Okla., died
Sept. 11, 1987. After graduating from W&L, he
earned a law degree from the University of Texas.
He was a retired supervising adjuster with the
Travelers Insurance Co. He was a member of the
Hebron Masonic Lodge 215, the York Rite, and
the Keystone Center Church.

1928

Harold Raymond Dobbs died Sept. 24, 1987. After
earning a degree in commerce from W&L, he
entered the stock brokerage business on Wall Street
and worked there until 1938. He then joined the
sales division of Chrysler Corp. and by 1942 was
assistant treasurer with Phelps Dodge Corp. in
New York City. He retired in 1968 as assistant
treasurer and secretary of Phelps. During his
lifetime, he was active in the Boy Scouts of
America, Shriners in Livingston, N.J., and
Masonic Lodge 287 in Wyckoff, N.J.

I92y

Charles Luther Claunch (See 1927).

Thomas Graham Gibson, retired vice president
and director of Eskimo Pie Corp. in Richmond,
died April 24, 1988. In addition to his study at
W&L, Gibson also attended New York Universi-
ty and Webster Law School. He began his career

at the National City Bank of New York and later
worked at the City Bank Farmers Trust Co.,
Reynolds Metals Co., Universal Moulded Products
Co., Bell Aircraft Corp., and Gibson Candy Co.
Inc. He joined Eskimo Pie Corp. in 1953. He was
a director of Eskimo International Inc., Eskimo
of Canada, and Expert Candy Ltd. Gibson was
a member of Westhampton Methodist Church and
served W&L as a class agent for several years.

1931

Edgar Brown Miller, retired partner of McFadden
& Miller Construction Co. in Dallas, died Feb. 21,
1988. He attended Southern Methodist Universi-
ty before entering W&L as a junior in 1929. In
1931, he continued his education at the Universi-
ty of Texas. From 1931 to 1942, he worked for
two Dallas banks until being commissioned a se-
cond lieutenant in the U.S. Army Air Force dur-
ing World War II. After being discharged with the
rank of captain, he became involved in contract-
ing and warehousing with the firm he later served

as partner.
1932

William Christian Edwards died Jan. 10, 1988.
After graduating from W&L, he joined D’Arcy
Advertising Co. in St. Louis as national field
representative on the Coca-Cola and Anheuser
Busch accounts. In 1946, he was appointed direc-
tor of market research and two years later was
named vice president. After two years abroad
supervising market investigations for Coca-Cola,
he was transferred to D’Arcy’s Chicago office. He
retired in 1964 as managing director and a member
of the board of directors. After retiring, Edwards
moved to Effingham Falls, N.H., where he became
involved in community affairs and served on
various civic and charitable boards. At the time
of his death, he lived in Milwaukee.

Thomas Norwood Layne, retired district sales
manager for Investors Diversified Services Inc. in
Farmville, Va., died Feb. 16, 1988. After attend-
ing W&L, he held a number of jobs—with the
YMCA in Richmond, a steamship company in
Philadelphia, the U.S. Postal Service, a tobacco
company, the Army, and a local radio station—
before joining the financial services company in
1949. After semi-retiring in the 1970s, Layne
became active as a member of the town council,
vice mayor, chairman of the Planning and Zon-
ing Commission, and president of the Farmville
Fire Department. He was also active in the
Masons, Scottish Rite, Southside Shrine Club, and
the Methodist Church.

Millard Robert Louis died Oct. 19, 1987. After
graduating from W&L, he worked as assistant
buyer of furniture with Hecht Co. in Baltimore.
He then was manager of Home Furniture Co. in
Columbus, Ohio, and later manager at Capital
Paper Co. By 1975, he owned Cake Decorators
& Craft Supplies, a mail order and retail store
based in Columbus. He later opened the Happy
Hostess House. Louis was past president of the
Central Ohio Bridge Association.

1933

William Jordan Brooks Jr..died at his home in
Memphis, Tenn., Oct. 30, 1987. After graduating
from W&L, he held a variety of jobs—first
teaching school for $50 a month in a small town
in Mississippi and later, during World War II,
making B-25 bombers at Fisher Body Plant in
Memphis. Brooks then accepted a sales position
with the Pontiac motor division of General Motors
and worked in Tennessee, Georgia, Texas, and
Michigan. In 1970, he took early retirement as

regional fleet manager to travel the world with his
wife. |

John Leyburn Mosby, president of Walker, Mosby
& Calvert Inc., a Lynchburg, Va., real estate and
insurance business, died March 9, 1988. After at-
tending W&L for one year, he worked for Stan-
dard Oil Co. and then became treasurer of Waverly
Dairy Inc. He later served as branch manager for
Pure Oil Co. in Lynchburg and with Fidelity &
Deposit Bonding Co. in Baltimore before joining
his father’s real estate business in 1935. Mosby was
past president of the Lynchburg Board of Realtors
and past regional vice president of the Virginia
Real Estate Association. During his career, he was
active in the Chamber of Commerce and was a
director of the Junior Chamber of Commerce. He
was a trustee and deacon of Rivermont
Presbyterian Church.

1934

Layne Haldeman Ford, a retired attorney from
Grafton, W.Va., died March 14, 1988. Ford began
a journalism career while a student at Davis and
Elkins Academy and College. First a historical
writer and reporter for the weekly Grafton Press,
he later was director of the college’s news bureau
and after graduating went to work for the Graf-
ton Daily Sentinel. He abandoned his career to at-
tend law school at W&L. After receiving his degree
he worked for the West Virginia road commission,
the state employment service, and the War Man-
power Commission before enlisting with the U.S.
Army Signal Corps. Following three years of ser-
vice, he became a trial examiner for the Unemploy-
ment Compensation Appeal Tribunal in
Charleston and returned to Grafton in 1948 to
practice law with his father. He served as municipal
judge in that city for eight years. In 1958, he
became law clerk to Judge Thornton G. Berry of
the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals and
retired in 1971.

Edward Simon Jacobs died Sept. 22, 1987. Dur-
ing his career, he served as manager of Lamar Lux-
ury Cleaners in Memphis, Tenn., as a captain in
the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II,
and as a salesman with James Davis Men’s Store
in Memphis.

Warren Douglas Matthews died at his summer
home in Pocomoke, Md., on Jan. 17, 1988. After
graduating from W&L, he worked in his family’s
produce business before joining the A&P food
chain in 1939. Upon retiring from buying produce
for A&P, he worked for a small produce company
in Belle Glade, Fla., where he had a winter home.
Active in the Episcopal Church, Matthews was for
many years a vestryman, Sunday school teacher,
and choir member. He was a charter member of
the Belle Glade Elk’s Club.

1935

Albert Throssel Hickin, a retired schoolteacher
who lived in Greenville, Va., died April 14, 1988.
After graduating from W&L, he taught English
and history in Brownsburg, Va., at the Kent
School in Connecticut, at St. Andrew’s School in
Middletown, Del., at Texas Country Day School
in Dallas, at the Miller School in Virginia, at New
Hampton School in New Hampshire, at Trinity
Pawling School in New York, and at the Mary A.
Burnham School in Massachusetts. He also coach-
ed boxing, football, track, and cross country. He
was a member of Fairfield (Va.) Presbyterian
Church, where he had served as an elder and choir
member.

Dr. Robert Sylvester Munger, who practiced
medicine in Lexington, Va., for 35 years, died May

W&L 45

 

22, 1988. After attending W&L, he graduated from
Tulane Medical School in 1937 and then taught
internal medicine at Tulane from 1939 to 1941. He
opened his practice in Lexington in 1941 and
retired in 1976 to devote full attention to his
31-acre landscape garden. He was a founding
member of the American Conifer Society and the
American Magnolia Society and a member of the
American Horticultural Society, the Royal Hor-
ticulture Society, and the American Rhododendron

Society.
1936

Charles Brinson Cross Jr., retired chief judge for
the General District Court of Chesapeake, Va.,
died Feb. 8, 1988. After earning a law degree from
W&L, he practiced law in Portsmouth, Va., until
World War II, when he served with the U.S. Naval
Reserve. While practicing law privately after the
war, Cross represented Norfolk County in the
Virginia House of Delegates for six years. In 1961,
he became clerk of the Circuit Court of Norfolk
County and two years later became clerk of the
Circuit Court of the City of Chesapeake. He
retired as chief judge for the General District Court
in 1985. Cross was the author of The County Court
1637-1904, Norfolk County, Virginia and The
Chesapeake, A Biography of a Ship. He also wrote
Memoirs of Helen Calvert Maxwell Read. He was
a Chesapeake First Citizen and had served as presi-
dent of the Norfolk County Historical Society.

John Samuel (Jack) Kirkpatrick, retired executive
vice president and general manager of A&N Elec-
tric Cooperative, died Nov. 24, 1987. He had serv-
ed 40 years with the Parksley, Va., company, once
known as Accomack Northampton Electric
Cooperative. During his career, he was president
and a director of Delmarva Electric Cooperative
of Seaford, Del. He was also past director of the
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
and Central Area Data Processing Corp. and was
past treasurer and director of Old Dominion Elec-
tric Cooperative of Richmond. Kirkpatrick was a
past deputy district governor for the Lions Club
and past president of the Parksley Lions Club. At
the time of his death, he lived in Lexington, Va.

1937

Robert Vail Cole, retired account executive with
Union Carbide Corp., died Dec. 6, 1987. A 34-year
resident of Hudson, Ohio, he worked with Union
Carbide in Cleveland for 40 years. Cole was an
avid camper and loved classical music and opera.
He was a member of Christ Church Episcopal.

1939
Cmdr. Alvah Vernon Mills Jr. died Jan. 2, 1988.
After graduating from W&L, he moved to Pen-
sacola, Fla., and joined the U.S. Navy. He became
a naval aviator and served actively for 20 years.
After retiring, he taught math and history for 12
years at Milton High School in Milton, Fla.

1940

Robert Anthony Dementi, chairman of the board
of Dementi Foster Studios and past president of
W&L’s Richmond alumni chapter, died Feb. 17,
1988. He attended the Winona School of
Photography in Indiana and held a master of
photography degree. He worked as a cameraman
in his father’s Richmond business until World War
II and then served in the metallurgical laboratory
at the Norfolk Naval Yard. After the war, he
returned to the family firm as a partner. Several
years ago he retired as president of the business
and turned it over to his son, A. Robert Dementi,
82. During his career, the elder Dementi served

46 W&L

as president of the national council for the Virginia
Professional Photographers Association and was
a director of the Retail Merchants Association of
Greater Richmond. He was active with the
Masons, Acca Temple Shrine, Kiwanis Club, and
Virginia Historical Society.

John Hill Scudder of Arlington Heights, Ill., died
Jan. 5, 1988. He retired as owner and president
of Scudder Buick in 1982 and had served the Buick
Motor Division of General Motors Corp. for 19
years as district manager and director of merchan-
dising. He was a longtime supporter of the Arl-
ington Heights Historical Society and was a
member of the Masonic Lodge in Flint, Mich.

1941

Henry Lederer Roediger Jr., an attorney and
financial consultant to Corporate Finance
Associates of Denver, Colo., died March 3, 1988.
After earning a bachelor’s degree from W&L, he
attended Harvard Business School. From 1943 to
1946, he served in the U.S. Army, earning the rank
of captain. Roediger returned to W&L and earn-
ed a law degree in 1947. He also held a master of
business administration degree from Harvard. A
native and lifetime resident of Danville, Va., he
served from 1948 to 1953 as president of Park
Place Mercantile Co. He spent the next nine years
as president of Sunnyside Awning and Tent Co.
and served the company as a director for at least
25 years. Roediger was the first director of Dan-
ville’s Mental Health and Retardation Services
Board and past president and director of Friends
in Service of Humanity. He was active with the
Masonic Lodge, the Scottish Rite, and the Shrine
Club. He also served as chairman of the board of
trustees for Main Street United Methodist Church.

1945

Walter Lapsley Carson Jr. of Middletown, Va.,
died Feb. 9, 1988. He was a retired professor who
had taught at Lord Fairfax Community College
in Middletown.

James Alvin Philpott, a former member of the
University’s Board of Trustees who also served as
a director of Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.,
died April 6, 1988. Philpott’s career at W&L was
interrupted by two years with the U.S. Army Air
Corps. He earned his degree in 1947 and then join-
ed United Furniture Co., which was founded by
his father. He served as secretary-treasurer, sales
manager, and executive vice president of the com-
pany, which was renamed Burlington Furniture in
1968. Philpott was later president of Burlington
Furniture in his hometown of Lexington, N.C. He
served on the board of directors of the Southern
Furniture Manufacturers Association and on the
board of trustees of Lexington Memorial Hospital.
He also was active with the Lexington Board of
Education, Kiwanis Club, Boy Scouts, United
Fund, and Red Cross. He was past chairman of
the board of deacons for First Baptist Church.

1947

Henry Lederer Roediger Jr. (See 1941).

1949

Col. Ossie Daniel Hamrick Jr., assistant director
of fiscal services at Tampa General Hospital in
Florida, died April 11, 1988. He served with the
U.S. Air Force for 22 years. In 1966, he retired
and entered the field of hospital administration at
Tampa General, where he worked 21 years.
Hamrick was a member of the Travelers Protec-
tive Association, the Tampa General Hospital
Foundation, and the Retired Officers Association.
He was active with First Baptist Church.

1950

Joseph Thompson McKinney III died Aug. 30,

1987.
1953

James Franklin Coleman Jr., a retired teacher who
lived in Rockbridge County, died May 2, 1988.
Coleman began his studies at W&L in 1938, con-
tinued them during the 1946-47 school year, and
completed his degree in 1953. He also attended
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

1955

Dean Bender, an attorney from Bellevue, Wash.,
died Dec. 19, 1987. After graduating from W&L,
he worked as a claims adjuster for Northwestern
Mutual Insurance Co. and later for General Ac-
cident Insurance Co. In 1965, he earned a law
degree from the University of Washington, join-
ed the firm of Schroeter, Goldmark & Bender in
1966, and practiced with the firm until the time
of his death. His work emphasized automobile ac-
cidents, medical negligence, and asbestos cases.
During his career, Bender served on the board of
governors and later as president of the Washington
State Trial Lawyers Association. He was a member
of the American and California trial lawyers
associations and of the Washington state and
Seattle-King County bar associations.

1963

Samuel Ward Channell, owner and operator of the
Elkins Motor Lodge in Elkins, W.Va., died May
15, 1988. After graduating from W&L, he earned
a master of business administration degree from
the University of Pennsylvania. From 1982 to
1986, he served as Emergency Medical Services
project director of the West Virginia State Police
Medivac Pilot Project. He was chairman of the
National EMS Clearinghouse Committee of the
National Association of State EMS Directors.
Channell was a director of the Kentucky and West
Virginia Coal Co., former chief executive officer
of United Ambulance Inc., and associate director
of the EMS office of the West Virginia Depart-
ment of Health. During his career, he was an in-
structor at West Virginia State College and had
served as director of the Market Development
Division of the West Virginia Department of Com-
merce. He was a member of Davis Memorial
Presbyterian Church in Elkins.

Alexander McGregor Stewart III of Indianapolis
died in July 1987.

Richard Charles Houck of Leesburg, Va., died of
cancer April 22, 1988. Houck earned a bachelor’s
degree from the College of William and Mary
before entering the School of Law at W&L. After
graduation, he joined the legal staff of the Com-
monwealth Land Title Insurance Co. At the time
of his death, he was mid-Atlantic states counsel
for the Fairfax company. He was a member of the
Virginia State Bar and the Virginia Land Title

Association.
1983

Townsend Oast Jr. died of cancer March 15, 1988,
in an Arlington, Va., hospital. After graduating
from W&L, he joined the department of finan-
cial institutions at Chubb and Son Inc. in
Philadelphia as an underwriter. He was promoted
in 1984 and transferred to the insurance company’s
Washington, D.C., office. In 1985, he joined
Marsh and McLennan Insurance Brokers as a
financial institution marketing specialist. He later
served the company as account manager and assis-
tant vice president.

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

On the Fancy Dress boycott

EDITOR:

I was both surprised and shocked to read in
the March/April Alumni Magazine an article ti-
tled ‘‘Minority Student Association Boycotts Fan-
cy Dress Ball.’

I was surprised that the president of the MSA,
Rosalyn Thompson, objected to the theme
“Reconciliation Ball of 1865’’ because it supposed-
ly represented an ‘‘era of black oppression.’’ Ap-
parently her knowledge of American history is
somewhat limited. Doesn’t she know that slavery
ended in 1865? Her comparison that ‘‘it’s like hav-
ing a ‘Trail of Tears’ ball and inviting the Indians’’
is absolutely ridiculous. The infamous ‘‘Trail of
Tears,’’ which will be forever a blot on America’s
history, was a time of dreadful oppression of a
noble people who were driven from their own land,
not a time of their emancipation. If Ms. Thomp-
son wants to object to any theme that could be
construed as ‘‘an era of black oppression,’’ then
any and all themes involving American history
prior to the 1950s must be ruled out.

The article further stated, ‘‘In response to the
black students’ protest, the ball’s organizers agreed
not to display the Confederate flag or to depict
a Southern plantation among the decorations and
not to encourage students to dress in Civil War
uniforms for the event.’’ I was shocked by the
organizers’ even bothering to respond to such a
protest, let alone taking such a conciliatory attitude
toward it. If black students want to boycott a Fan-
cy Dress Ball, fine. Let them hold their own func-
tion at another location (which they did), but don’t
give in to their demands.

Who ever heard of anyone agreeing not to
display a Confederate flag at Washington and Lee?
This fine university is steeped in more than 200
years of Southern tradition, and blacks who come
here know this. If they don’t like it, why do they
attend W&L? If they can’t accept it, they should
leave.

Arlington, Va.

EDITOR:

I was saddened to read of the boycott initiated
against the 81st annual Fancy Dress Ball by the
Minority Student Association. I was equally sad-
dened that the ball’s organizers agreed not to
display the Confederate flag, as one of the several
measures taken in response to the boycott.

Evidently the MSA has decided to take a revi-
sionist view of history. The Civil War happened,
the Confederacy existed, and Robert E. Lee was
its hero. Following the Civil War reconstruction
and, in time, reconciliation took place.

If a ‘‘reconciliation’’ theme for a ball is going
to be interpreted as representative of ‘‘an era of
black oppression,’’ what does Robert E. Lee’s
presence in our University’s name mean to
Washington and Lee’s black students? For that
matter, what does colonial planter George
Washington’s name connote for these same
students?

If an affront is found therein in either case,
I suggest the MSA accept the spirit of reconcilia-
tion that has prevailed with regard to the Civil War

KARL M. FUNKHOUSER, 57

at W&L for some time now, and enroll en masse

in the history department, leaving the university
name as it is.

DuDLEY B. THOMAS, ’55

Painesville, Ohio

Views on Sports

EDITOR:

I write to support the views of Richard J.
Bromley, ’43, and President Wilson (‘‘And Fur-
thermore’’ and ‘‘Five Years Later,’’ March/April,
1988), with respect to the scheduling of sports con-
tests with schools of similar national reputation
and/or academic level. My position easily supports
the retention of schools such as Centre and
Sewanee on our schedules.

If enough people feel strongly about it, and
President Wilson will strongly advance his stated
view, let’s hope we can make it happen.

JAMES R. TRImM, °54
Potomac, Md.

EDITOR:

It would be great to look at the sports section
of the Sunday paper and see that Washington and
Lee had won a game, and with some degree of
regularity. It has been many years since that situa-
tion has existed. Needless to say, we ‘‘ole timers’’
are proud of the University’s high scholastic stan-
dards; with the fine athletic traditions held by
W&L, however, the present athletic situation is a
bit embarrassing.

One year W&L was honored by the
Washington Touchdown Club as the Small Col-
lege Champion, and during the 1934-35 season
Washington and Lee won the Southern Conference
Championship in football, basketball, wrestling,
golf, and swimming. Of course, scholarships were
available, but there were no problems. (I am aware
of the problems in the 1950s.)

Why can’t we recruit a few good gentleman
athletes?

GEORGE W. HARRISON, 736
Henderson, N.C.

Setting the Record Straight

EDITOR:

In the ‘‘Class Notes’’ section of the
March/April issue of the Alumni Magazine, I was
cited as the new president of Stetson University
in DeLand, Fla.

Having served for 11 years as the president of
Georgia College, it is no small honor to be called
back for another term. Stetson, however, has been
either dilatory or coy about letting me know. It’s
fun to find out about it first in the Alumni
Magazine. Believe me, it has pepped up my
readership.

R.E. ‘‘Buzz’’ LEE, ’41
Pensacola, Fla.

EDITOR:

In reading the ‘‘Class Notes’’ section of the
January/February issue of the Alumni Magazine,
I found that you have the wrong Wesley G. Brown
listed as working with Olan Mills. That reference
was actually for my son, Wesley G. Brown Jr.,

78, who is now in the real estate business at Hilton
Head, S.C.

I am still active in the life insurance and in-
vestment area in Chattanooga with part-time
responsibilities as general manager of Moccasin
Bend Golf Club, a privately owned club for public
play.

Keep up the good work.

WESLEY G. Brown, ’51
Chattanooga, Tenn.

The Legendary Flournoy

EDITOR:

I have read, with much interest, the recent let-
ters in the Alumni Magazine regarding Fitzgerald
Flournoy (‘‘And Furthermore,’’ January/
February and March/April).

Fitz and I grew up on the Eastern Shore of
Virginia. Our homes were about five or six miles
apart. In 1921 I entered W&L with the class of
1925. That year Fitz was finishing his master’s
degree, teaching freshman English, and getting
ready to go to Oxford. We had rooms in Graham
Dormitory.

Our paths never crossed again. I heard of him
through family and friends. I was traveling
through Lexington in the 1930s and tried to find
him. At his house (formerly Dr. Shannon’s) I was
told that he was out of town. As one of your cor-
respondents reported, Fitz was not around dur-
ing Christmas.

Many thanks for a glimpse of the Fitz I never
knew.

EpGaAR J. Spapy, ’25
El Paso, Texas

Responding to McManus

EDITOR:
Realizing that the ‘‘And Furthermore’’ section
of the Alumni Magazine is not in existence to pro-

-mote political debate, I would still like to take ex-
- ception to several remarks Michael J. McManus

made in his column, ‘“The Honor System—A Way
to Build Integrity’? (January/February, 1988).

He remarks, ‘‘Sleazy ethics have clouded 100
top Reagan appointees, an unprecedented
number.’’ He goes on to comment on Judge
Robert Bork’s ordeal by stating, as regards Judge
Kennedy’s nomination, that ‘‘. . . integrity is seen
as more important than ideology.’’

Well, now. It seems the Washington Post two
years ago tried to tie the ‘‘sleaze factor’’ around
Reagan’s neck in what could only be described as
an article reeking with ‘‘sleaze’’ itself. So partisan
was it, and filled with innuendo, that the resulting
outcry forced the Post to cancel the rest of the
series.

In it, they used the infamous number 100. I
doubt McManus could name five Reagan ap-
pointees, let alone 100, that have ‘‘clouded’’
reputations. Perhaps he could name Ray Donovan,
who in three years was cleared of the same charges
by the FBI, a federal grand jury, and a jury of
his peers in New York City. In fact, a member of
the latter remarked after the trial that it had been
a complete waste of the jury’s time. Or perhaps

W&L 47

 

Lyn Nofziger? Even the trial judge remarked that
the prosecution’s case seemed weak.

What if we address these men’s accusers?
Judge Bork was assaulted by the likes of Jim
Wright, Ted Kennedy, and Howard Metzenbaum.
The first should be under investigation for per-
sonally taking favors from the Texas savings and
loan industry while handcrafting a government
bailout of it; the second man should have answered
to manslaughter charges in 1969, and recently
crafted a virtual bill of attainder against a Boston
newspaper he hates; while the last individual has
been twice charged by the IRS with income tax
evasion.

So, my advice to Mr. McManus is this: Don’t
let the New York Times and the Washington Post
do your thinking for you. After all, the Post allows
its reporters to make up stories (if they’re good
enough!). Remember Karen Cook? |

CurT N. SMITH, ’76
Manassas, Va.

An Appreciative Parent

EDITOR:

Since my son, David, enrolled at Washington
and Lee as a member of the class of 1990, I have
enjoyed the Alumni Magazine and look forward
to each issue. He is so enthusiastic about the
University, and the issues of this magazine help
explain why he is so delighted with his choice of
a college. Keep the good articles coming.

Your magazine is one of the better ones that
I have seen.

Davip A. OLSON
Fairfax Station, Va.

Concerns About Date Rape

EDITOR:

For the past two years I have chaired a
statewide, United Methodist task force on child
sexual abuse. In the course of our investigation,
the issue of date rape came up. While peripheral
to the task force’s concerns, the subject caused me,
as an alumnus of Washington and Lee, some
belated feelings of guilt. Hence this letter.

I graduated from W&L in 1973 after four years
of work, fun, and learning. Having attended all-
male schools since I was 13, I decided to reverse
that personal trend and enrolled in the graduate
program at Hollins College.

Hollins provided an enlightening experience.
For the first time in my life, women were more
than just occupants of a distant and alluring world;
they became my everyday companions and, in

many cases, close friends. As friends will, some.

of my fellow students at Hollins began to confide
in me. What they had to say sometimes surprised
and saddened me.

When I attended W&L, dates were drawn from
the women’s colleges surrounding the area. It
seemed some benevolent god had ordained that all
such colleges would be placed just close enough
to allow us to pick up our companions on a Fri-
day afternoon, but far enough away to preclude
our returning them after a long night of carous-
ing. And so we took them home to our apartments
for the night.

The student body of Washington and Lee in
those years presented the world with a unique im-
age for a college community: There was the at-
mosphere of relaxed social mores and experimen-
tation common to most university campuses in the
late 60s and early ’70s, but at W&L this at-
mosphere was tempered by the ethical standards
of General Lee’s honor code. Honesty was
everything: honesty in our incessant political

48 W&L

discussions, honesty in our friendships, honesty
in Southeast Asia, honesty in our faculty, and
honesty in our love lives.

If one wished to make love with a woman, one
was honest about it (we probably would have said
“‘up front’’ about it) and she, in turn, was expected
to be honest about her desires. If none were pre-
sent (and believe me, I sadly but quickly discovered
this to be my usual lot)—well, that was ‘‘cool,”’’
we’d just sack out on opposite sides of the bed and
in the morning, gentlemen that we were, we would
drive them back to Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon,
Hollins, or wherever.

It was understood that just because cir-
cumstances made it easier for your date to sleep
over did not necessarily mean you would engage
in sexual intercourse with said date. We were
young and idealistic and more than willing to put
our ideals into practice this way. It was the cor-
rupt society of our parents’ generation that said
a man couldn’t occupy the same bed with a woman
without forcing himself upon her. We were dif-
ferent. We were actively creating a better world.

Or at least I thought we were until I began at-
tending classes at Hollins. The women at Hollins
taught me many wonderful things, but they also
taught me some rather sad facts about reality. They

taught me there were Washington and Lee students ©

whose concept of honor was terribly flawed,
students who might adhere religiously to the code
as regards academics or personal property, but
refused to sustain their commitment to honorable
behavior when they had a female in their bedroom.
I met women at Hollins who had been raped by
W&L students.

The fact that these rapes had, for the most part,
all occurred in beds, beds which the women had
willingly entered, meant of course their victims
wouldn’t have stood a chance in a court of law.
But that doesn’t make them any less rapes, thefts
of these women’s dignity and, in many cases, their
psychological well-being.

We were taught that as Washington and Lee
students we were expected to live up to a higher
ideal than the merely legal expectations society
places upon its members. We were not to lie, cheat,
or steal. . . regardless of whether we could be held
accountable for such actions in a court of law. We
were to behave at all times as gentlemen. And a
gentleman didn’t do such things. Ever.

This high standard for behavior was and is a
gift W&L gives its students. Those of us who are
now alumni continue to try to live up to this ideal
in a society that frequently labels such concepts
old-fashioned and out-of-step. Though we may
sometimes be considered naive, the honor code has
given us a sense of who we are and what we stand
for that is sorely lacking in today’s materialistic
world. Such a code should not be sullied by a few
dolts who would use their greater size and the
absence of any legal restraints to steal from a
woman one of her most basic possessions: her
sense of physical security.

When I learned of these rapes I was young and
inexperienced. As a graduate of Washington and
Lee I apologized on behalf of my alma mater for
such behavior. It never occurred to me I might do
more. Then, years later, came my service on the
task force. When date rape was discussed I
remembered those long-ago conversations and I
resolved to write this letter. Probably the school
has long since developed a program to teach in-
coming male freshmen ai/ the ramifications of be-
ing a gentleman. But just in case it hasn’t, I hereby
recommend such instruction.

At my freshman orientation in the fall of 1969
a significant portion of the schedule was devoted

to the honor code. Hours were spent discussing
the intricacies of what did and did not constitute
a violation. And yet I don’t remember a single
mention being made of a Washington and Lee
gentleman’s responsibilities toward that favorite
preoccupation of all W&L men since the days of
Liberty Hall: women.

But you had better believe we talked about
them back in our rooms at night. I remember one
fellow explaining to a group of us credulous
freshmen that all women ‘‘wanted it,’’ and when
they said ‘‘no,’’ they really meant ‘‘yes.’’ I would
love to claim I saw through such claptrap, but I’m
afraid I didn’t. I was confused. At 17 years of age
women were still quite a mystery to me and, as
a result, I just didn’t know. Thankfully I never
acted upon such advice, but clearly some of my
peers did.

Fourteen years ago I received my master’s
degree from Hollins and moved on. I have long
since forgotten the names of the women who
shared with me that they had been raped. Nor
could I now say how many women told me of such
an experience. I can, however, say with certainty
it was more than one. Let’s be conservative and
Say it was only two women. Assuming I became
close to 20 women at Hollins during my year there,
and then making the additional assumption that
fully half of these would have chosen to share such
an intimate detail with me had they ever been
raped, this means that out of a sample of 10
women who could have shared such an experience
with me had it occurred, one-fifth of them did.
While I’m sure this is far from a valid statistical
sample, it scares the daylights out of me
nevertheless.

We can’t do anything for these women, but we
can for today’s, including those wonderful new
Washington and Lee women. If we don’t have a
required program for incoming freshmen on sex-
ual ethics, let’s start one. If a statement hasn’t been
made to the effect that it is an honor code viola-
tion to rape a woman, let’s make that statement
and let’s make it now. It is W&L’s heritage, its
ability to produce whole, caring, and intelligent
human beings, that we will thereby protect.

WILLIAM P. PEAK Jr., ’73
Alexandria, Va.

Anne C. Schroer-Lamont, associate dean of
students at Washington and Lee, responds:

In 1986, a series of required educational pro-
grams about acquaintance rape was established at
W&L for male and female freshmen and dor-
mitory counselors. Following those programs,
some women students came forward to report to
me that they or their friends had been the victims
of date rape. In almost every case the freshman
student had been abused by a junior or senior
WE&L male student, and in the majority of situa-
tions alcohol abuse was present.

Although not one student who has been the vic-
tim of date rape has been willing to bring a case
before the Student Conduct Committee, some of
them have given me permission to call the male
in question into my office so that I may discuss
his behavior with him. These students are asked
to view a film on acquaintance rape, read several
articles on the topic, and return for at least one
more counseling session. Several have complied.

Our problem here at W&L is no greater than
that at any other college in the country. We plan
to continue required programs for each new class
at W&L. Counseling is always available and totally
confidential. When we find a way to curtail alcohol
abuse, we will have also found the answer to many
of our behavioral problems.

 

 

Fall Sports
Schedules

 

Sept. 9-11
Sept. 17-18
Sept. 24
Oct. 1-2
Oct. 15-16
Oct. 22-23
Nov. 5-6
Nov. 11-13

Sept. 10
Sept. 24
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

— OO —

Oct. 22
Oct. 29
Nov. 5

Nov. 12

Sept. 13

Sept. 17
Sept. 22
Sept. 24
Sept. 28
Oct. 5

Oct. 6
Oct. 11

Oct. 14
Oct. 18
Oct. 20
Oct. 25
Oct. 27
Oct. 29
Nov. 4-5

WATER POLO

W&L Fall Classic

SE Varsity Inv.

State Championship
NE Varsity Invitational
Claremont Invitational
Southern Tournament
Southern Championship
Eastern Championship

FOOTBALL

Emory & Henry
Centre
Randolph-Macon
Maryville
Hampden-Sydney
(Homecoming)
Sewanee
Bridgewater
Ursinus
(Parents’ Weekend)
Washington University

VOLLEYBALL

Eastern Mennonite,
Bridgewater
RMWC Tournament
Roanoke, Southern Sem
Catholic, Bryn Mawr
Mary Baldwin, Shenandoah
Randolph-Macon Woman’s,
Southern Sem
Roanoke
Eastern Mennonite,
Mary Washington
Hollins
Emory & Henry
Sweet Briar, Ferrum
Lynchburg, Shenandoah
Bridgewater, Bluefield
Guilford
ODAC Championship

Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Home
Away

Home
Away
Home
Away
Home

Home
Away
Home

Away

Home
Away
Home
Away
Away

Home
Away

Home
Away
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept. 24 Mary Washington
Oct. 1 Norfolk St., Roanoke
Oct. 8 Catholic
Oct. 15 Virginia State Meet
Oct. 22 Bridgewater/WV Tech
Oct. 29 Eastern Mennonite
Hampden-Sydney
Nov. 5 ODAC Championship

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY

Sept. 24 Mary Washington

Oct. 1 Norfolk State

Oct. 8 Emory & Henry

Oct. 15 Va. State Meet

Oct. 22 West Va. Tech

Oct. 29 Eastern Mennonite,
Lynchburg

Nov. 5 ODAC Championship

MEN’S SOCCER

Sept. 10 Denison

Sept. 18 Johns Hopkins
Sept. 21 Roanoke

Sept. 24 N.C. Wesleyan
Sept. 28 Eastern Mennonite
Oct. 1 Messiah

Oct. 4 Hampden-Sydney
Oct. 8 Marymount

Oct. 11 Averett

Oct. 14 Guilford

Oct. 19 Mary Washington
Oct. 22 Washington College
Oct. 26 Randolph-Macon
Oct. 29 Millersville

Nov. 1 Lynchburg

Nov. 8 V.M.I.

WOMEN’S SOCCER

Sept. 10 Denison

Sept. 14 Randolph-Macon Woman’s

Sept. 17 Roanoke

Sept. 22 Randolph-Macon
(Ashland)

Sept. 24 Marymount

Sept. 26 Guilford

Sept. 28 Sweet Briar

Oct. 1 N.C. Wesleyan

Oct. 5 Hollins

Oct. 8 Sweet Briar

Oct. 11 Lynchburg

Oct. 13 Randolph-Macon Woman’s

Oct. 15 Randolph-Macon
(Ashland)

Oct. 19 Virginia Wesleyan

Oct. 22 Hollins

Oct. 25-29 ODAC Tournament

WOMEN’S TENNIS

Sept. 27 Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College

Sept. 29 Longwood

Sept. 30-

Oct. 1 Generals’ Tournament

Oct. 4 Mary Baldwin

Oct. 6 Sweet Briar

Oct. 8 Mary Washington

Oct. 9 Randolph-Macon

(Ashland)

Home
Home
Away
Away
Away

Away
Away

Home
Home
Home
Away
Away

Away
Away

Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away
Home
Away
Home
Away
Home
Home
Away
Home
Away

Away
Home
Home

Away
Home
Home
Away
Away
Home
Home
Away
Away

Home
Away
Away
Away

Home
Away

Home
Home
Away
Away
Away

W&L

49

 

The Alumni Magazine of oop ch On
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY U.S. Postage.

; ey ee PAID
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Permit No. 6238

Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

 

Homecoming 83

October 14-16

featuring

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion

and

Cluster Reunion
for the Classes of 1985, ’86, 87, and ’88

(Details will be mailed soon)

Friday, October 14

12:30 p.m.—The John Randolph Tucker Lecture, Lewis Hall

3:30 p.m.—Men’s Soccer: Generals vs. Guilford, Smith Field

5:30 p.m.—Alumni Reception honoring the Homecoming Queen Court, Alumni House
7:30 p.m.—Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet

Saturday, October 15

11:30 a.m.—Alumni Luncheon, Athletic Fields

11:30 a.m.—Women’s Soccer: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon (Ashland), Smith Field
2:00 p.m.—Football: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney, Wilson Field

4:00 p.m.—Alumni Reception, Alumni House

Sunday, October 16
e 1:00 p.m.—Lacrosse: Alumni vs. Varsity, Wilson Field

For more information, write:
Homecoming ’88
Washington and Lee Alumni Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

ee SS

