the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1982

JOHN D. WILSON, PRESIDENT-ELECT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

He

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)

Volume 57, Number 5, September 1982

William C. Washburn, ’40 .................cccccccccceeeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Jeffery G. Hanna ...................c cece cece eee Associate Editor
Robert Fure .................c cece eeeeeeeeeeeees Contributing Editor
Joyce Carter 2.00.0... cece cece cece cece eeeees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73 ..............c cece eee ee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Wilson Named New President ....................0..008. 1
Alumni College Gets Rave Reviews .................... 4
Washburn Gets New Post ................ccccceseeeeeeeees 8
Noell Named to Development Staff ..................... 9
WEL Gazette 22... ccc ccc cee ee cece ceeeeeaeeaeees 10
New Annual Fund Records ...................0..0.c0ceee. 16
Chapter NewS .............cccccececeeeeseccecusesueeacuenees 18
Class Notes ..............cccccccececceccseccaccucueeaeueeens 19
W&L Gifts from the Supply Store ....................... 31

Published in January, March, May, July, September, October, and
November by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be
sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

G. RUSSELL LADD III, ’57, Mobile Ala.
President

EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Vice President

WILLIAM E. LaTTuRE, ’49, Greensboro, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, ’62, Norfolk, Va.
CHARLES R. BEALL, ’56, Martinsburg, W.Va.
ANDREW N. Baur, ’66, St. Louis, Mo.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
OweEN H. HARPER, 759, Pasadena, Calif.
CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., 59, Atlanta, Ga.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, °56, Cleveland, Ohio
J. WILLIAM MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
OLIVER M. MENDELL, 50, New York City
WILLIAM C. NoRMAN Jr., ’56, Crossett, Ark.
RICE M. TILLEY Jr., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.
S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.

CVU

v

ON THE COVER: Dr. John D. Wilson stands in front of
The Colonnade at Washington and Lee shortly after the
University’s Board of Trustees elected him the 21st presi-
dent of W&L. His election came on Sept. |. He plans to
assume Office on Feb. 1, 1983. Photograph by W. Patrick
Hinely, ’73.

 

 

 

WILSON ELECTED PRESIDENT

As a high school student in his hometown of Lapeer,
Mich., Dr. John D. Wilson’s ambition in life was to become
a sports writer for the Detroit Free Press. That was, Wilson
says in retrospect, a reasonable and an honorable professional
aspiration.

But he never achieved that goal.

Instead, Wilson studied history at Michigan State, won a
Rhodes Scholarship, earned an M.A. from Oxford and a
Ph.D. from Michigan State, and eventually came to be
regarded as one of the most effective college administrators in
the United States.

On Sept. 1, the Detroit Free Press’ loss became
Washington and Lee’s gain when the University’s Board of

 

Trustees elected Wilson the 21st president of W&L.

Wilson, 51, comes to Washington and Lee from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, where he has been
provost since 1975 and executive vice president since 1981.
Prior to that, he served for seven years as president of Wells
College, a 500-student, liberal arts college for women in
Aurora, N.Y.

The election of Wilson at a called meeting of the trustees
came seven weeks to the day after Robert E. R. Huntley had
announced his plans to retire from the office he has held since
1968.

‘*T know many people will wonder who would dare
follow in Bob Huntley’s footsteps. Everyone in higher

education appreciates what a task that will be,’’ said Wilson,
who will assume his duties on Feb. 1, 1983.

‘‘T deeply appreciate the opportunity to be associated with
a first-class institution of its kind, which Washington and Lee
clearly is. Washington and Lee is strong; obviously it can be
stronger. The future is uncertain. And I would like to be part
of trying to secure Washington and Lee’s future, because it is
important to Virginia, indeed to America, that it happen.

‘‘T do not come to this University with a blueprint in my
back pocket. It would be presumptuous to suppose that I can
today predict the future of this University. I think we have
here the great resource of 200 years and more of tradition, of
a sense of quality, of a sense of style. The first obligation will
be to protect that, to make sure that does not erode.”’

Wilson was nominated for the presidency by the executive
committee of the Board of Trustees, acting as a presidential
search committee. James M. Ballengee, ’42L, rector of the
board, was chairman of the committee.

‘‘Dr. Wilson has excelled both as a scholar and as an
administrator throughout his impressive career in higher
education,’’ said Ballengee. ‘‘We are indeed fortunate that he
has accepted the presidency of Washington and Lee.”’

Wilson was chosen from among more than 200
candidates. A 14-member Presidential Search Advisory
Committee, headed by William J. Watt, dean of the College,
reviewed all applicants and submitted the applicants’ names
to the trustees’ search committee, which conducted interviews
and made the final decision.

Although he was not an active participant in the search
process, Huntley was quick to commend the board for its
selection.

‘‘Dr. Wilson is one of the most able educators I have
known,’’ said Huntley. “‘I could not be more pleased with the
selection. It is a tribute to him that our board and faculty want
him to be president here, and a tribute to Washington and Lee
that he has accepted the appointment. ”’

Virginia Tech President William Lavery praised Wilson’s
‘vision and clarity of thought, as well as his superb ability to
articulate the academic needs of the university and of the
Commonwealth. . . .’” Added Lavery: ‘‘I am delighted for
John that he has this opportunity to give leadership to such an
outstanding private institution of higher learning in the
Commonwealth; he and Washington and Lee will do well
together, and I am happy for both.”’

Wilson received the B.A. degree in history with high
honor from Michigan State in 1953. He compiled impressive
academic credentials and was elected to both Phi Kappa Phi
and Phi Alpha Theta while an undergraduate. (He was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa in 1967.)

Moreover, Wilson was a campus leader, serving as
president of his senior class, and was a much-honored athlete.

2

 

Rector Ballengee (left) and President-Elect Wilson at news conference

A star defensive halfback, he played on the 1952 Michigan
State football team which won the national championship. He
was a participant in the North-South All-Star Game in 1952
and a member of the first Academic All-America team ever
chosen (1952).

As a Rhodes Scholar, Wilson studied English literature at
Oxford and received his M.A. in 1955.

After two years as an intelligence officer in the U.S. Air
Force, Wilson began his remarkable career in higher
education when he became assistant to Dr. Thomas Hamilton,
vice president of academic affairs at Michigan State, in 1958.
When Hamilton assumed the presidency of the State
University of New York in 1959, Wilson accompanied him to
Albany as assistant to the president and served in that position
for four years before returning to Michigan State in 1963 as
associate director of the Honors College.

Wilson was subsequently appointed director of the Honors
College (1965) and then director of undergraduate education
and assistant provost at Michigan State (1967).

In 1965, he received the Ph.D. in English literature from
Michigan State, where he held the rank of assistant professor
in the department of English and taught courses in
Elizabethan literature, particularly Shakespeare.

In 1968, at the age of 37, Wilson was elected president of
Wells College, a position he held for seven years before he

 

pee

President-Elect Wilson (left) chats with President Huntley.

was appointed vice president of academic affairs and
university provost at Virginia Tech. His position at VPI was
further enhanced in 1981 when he was given the additional
title of executive vice president.

While at Tech, Wilson was instrumental in orchestrating
several important and successful changes. But, as he
explained in a recent interview, “‘the funny thing about an
academic officer is that he cannot, with any clarity, look out
a window to see what he has accomplished. I could point to a
host of legislative bits and pieces that I think have made a
difference. But they are not edifices you can look out the

window and see; they are not brick and mortar you can touch.

‘‘The most significant role of an academic officer—and I
leave it to others to say how well this may have been
accomplished—involves the task of calling people to their
best selves. The faculty and the student body must take with
utmost seriousness what it is we are doing here in this unique
social institution that is a university.’

Wilson added that he considers it ‘‘the first obligation of
the university administration to remove impediments from
scholars and their young apprentice-scholars. . . . If you
Cannot get satisfaction from that peripheral, yet necessary,
role, then you ought not be in that sort of position; you
should stay in the classroom. I happen to take great pleasure
in the successes of others.’’

 

Although the largest part of his career has been spent in
large research universities, Wilson emphasized that he ‘‘takes
very, very seriously the four undergraduate years.

‘‘T was not the same person at 22 that I was at 18—by a
very long way. I think you do grow, and potentially you grow
enormously, during those four undergraduate years.’”’

Further, Wilson suggested that ‘‘it is harder in a research
university with graduate and professional schools to ensure

. the integrity of that undergraduate experience.

‘*T think every 50-minute contact between a student and a
faculty member is precious. Both the student and the faculty
member must realize that. Their time together is absolutely
vital.”’

Shortly after his election by the board, Wilson was
introduced to the news media and fielded questions in a wide-
ranging news conference. Predictably enough, one of the
questions he was asked to address concerned coeducation.
Not so predictably, that question did not arise until midway
through the 45-minute session. That prompted Wilson,
known for a keen wit and a warm, infectious smile, to quip:
‘‘[ had been wondering when we were going to get around to
that.’’

Once the subject was broached, Wilson responded by first
observing that Washington and Lee ‘‘has been able to attract
and continues to be able to attract first-rate students and to
retain them and to educate them to become successful citizens
of the larger world. That seems to me to be a useful mission.

‘‘T do not know enough about the ‘Washington and Lee
experience’ to know how much of it comes out of its gender
or how much of it might change if women were admitted in
equal numbers. Obviously, I want to wait a time and get a
better sense of that experience before I offer firm opinions on
it.”

For the moment, however, Wilson said that ‘‘we will
not be in a position of advocating a change . . . I will not
argue with the board (of trustees) that we ought to contradict
success.”’

In a more personal vein, Wilson is married to Anne
Veronica Yeomans, an English citizen whom he met while
living in England. Dr. and Mrs. Wilson have four children:
Stephen, 22, who attended Emory and Henry College and
currently lives in California; Anthony, a 20-year-old
sophomore at the University of Kentucky; Patrick, an 18-
year-old freshman at the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro; and, Sara, a 14-year-old high school freshman.

Stull an avid sportsman, Wilson professes to be ‘‘quite
fond of golf, although it is not often fond of me’’ and does
‘‘a tiny bit of jogging, but not to the point where it is an
addiction.”’

The Wilsons will live in the Lee House on the campus.

The
Perfect
Recipe
For
Summer

W&L’s First Alumni College
Receives Rave Reviews

 

Washington and Lee’s Alumni College Class of ’82
4

| co.tece ©

: ALUMN
' REGISTRATION

 

 

 

INGREDIENTS

30 Washington and Lee alumni and 25
wives of the alumni

20 Children of alumni

W&L professors

Textbooks

Evening with author/alumnus Tom

Wolfe

1 Piano concert by Dean Emeritus James

Leyburn
A dash of photography
A pinch of aerobic dancing

— (nN ~]

Place all ingredients in the incomparable
surroundings of Washington and Lee’s in-
comparable campus. Season liberally with
provocative lectures and lively discussion
sessions. Stir in a demonstration of Chinese
brush painting, a Frank Capra film, and a
Gilbert and Sullivan operetta. Add recrea-
tional opportunities and relaxation as needed.
Simmer for seven days.

The recipe for Washington and Lee’s first
Alumni College was an unqualified success!
By all accounts, the week that had been
cooked up for alumni and their families was
delectable—and satisfying, too.

For weeks (literally) after the inaugural
session ended in early July, the cards and
letters kept coming in: ‘‘Never has a week
been so totally filled with the ‘Right
Stuff ...’’ ‘‘Even after a cooling off period,
(we) are still on a high from the exhilarating
experience of the Alumni College.’’ ‘‘AII
five of us have agreed it’s the best family
vacation we have ever had.’’ ‘‘I had set
pretty high expectations and, damn, if they
were not all met.”’

Those unsoliciated testimonials from
participants left little doubt of the program’s
success. But perhaps an even better gauge
was the reaction of the Alumni College
faculty, some of whom had been frankly
skeptical whether the concept could work, let
alone work well.

One of those self-professed skeptics was
Sidney Coulling, professor of English and
academic director of the Alumni College.

Confessed Coulling: “‘I was rather
doubtful it could succeed. I wondered
whether there were enough alumni who
wanted this type of program. And I
wondered whether the faculty could pull it
off, could sustain the participants’ interest
for a week.”’

When it ended, Coulling was happy to
admit that his doubts had been proven
unfounded.

Not only were there plenty of alumni
interested in such a program, many were
eager for it. That was evident from the flood
of responses to a preliminary letter
announcing the Alumni College. That letter

One of the many lighter moments dur

 

The Alumni College participants foun

Dr. Sidney M _ Coulling, left, leads a discussion group.

ing the daily lecture

d the material stimulatin

  

8.

 

 

resulted in 600 alumni expressing interest in
attending the program; all the places had
been taken and there was a waiting list of 40
even before the brochures announcing the
Alumni College were off the press.

‘*We had at least two participants who
had not been on the campus in 25 or 30 years
and who told us that they had been waiting
for the university to offer this kind of
program,’’ said Robert Fure, director of
summer programs at W&L and program
coordinator of the Alumni College.

So the interest was there. The trick was
translating that interest and apparent
enthusiasm into a successful week that would
provide what Fure termed *‘a significant
growth experience.’’ This would have to be
more than a week of fun and games. And
that it was.

It all began with a theme, ‘‘Changing
View in Changing Times,’’ and an
exceptional faculty: Coulling, Leonard
Jarrard (psychology), John Handelman
(politics), William Jenks (history) Thomas
Nye (biology), John Jennings (journalism),
and L. H. LaRue (law).

The next step was developing a daily
schedule that allowed for just the right blend
of the intellectual and the recreational. That
was Fure’s task. And he made it work.

Mornings were devoted to a general
lecture followed by a general discussion
followed by small group discussions. From
the first full day when Jarrard lectured on
**Stress and Reactions to Change,”’ it was
obvious to the faculty that the participants
had not come back to Lexington just for the
fun of it.

‘*The participants were bright, alert,
alive, vigorous,’’ said Coulling. ‘‘A key
element was that these people were as much
interested in making the program a success
as we on the faculty were.

‘“They listened to what we had to say,
but they also raised intelligent questions. It
was clear we were talking to people who
were expecting just the sort of experience we
had planned for them.’”’

Added Nye: ‘‘There was a really splendid
interchange of ideas going on throughout the
week. These people were not afraid to say
what was on their mind. With many college
students, it is often necessary to pull the
information from them because they are
reluctant to speak up among their peers.
These people had none of that reluctance.
They said what they thought.’”’

And what they thought and what they
said showed considerable insight into the
material, which ranged from Coulling’s
lecture on Joseph Conrad’s Heart of
Darkness to Handelman’s presentation on
‘*The Developed and the Developing

Tom Wolfe, ’51, at the podium

 

A mountaintop croquet match at Skylark

6

 

 

 

Prof. Ju on Chinese brush painting

 

World’’ to Jenks’ talk on understanding the
Muslim world.

‘*We had assigned five textbooks to be
read before the participants arrived in
Lexington,’’ explained Coulling. ‘‘These
were not easy books by any means. I would
venture to say that all the participants were
reading material well out of their own fields
of specialization. That, in itself, is no easy
task. But they had done their reading. And
they had perceptive things to say. During one
discussion session, someone leaned over to
me and remarked, ‘Isn’t it amazing that there
has not been a single unintelligent comment
made in this entire session?’ That was true.
There had not been.’’

For Nye, one of the most remarkable
developments was how quickly the
participants overcame any inhibitions that
would have been natural under the
circumstances. This, after all, was a diverse
group on several counts. In terms of
occupations, there were doctors and lawyers
and businessmen and journalists. In terms of
age, the range was between an 82-year-old
member of the Class of ’22, Dr. Harry
Lyons, and a member of the Class of ’74,
Doug Chase, who is in his late 20s.

‘*None of those differences seemed to
matter,’’ said Nye. ‘‘Everyone realized the
program lasted only a week. For it to be
successful, it was imperative that the barriers
be knocked down quickly. And they were. It
was an incredibly good mix.”’

Afternoons offered a variety of activities,
all on an optional basis. Participants could
choose photography clinics or cooking
demonstrations, aerobic dancing or a session
on computers. There were tours of the area, a
hike along a nature trail, and a picnic at
Skylark, W&L’s retreat on the Blue Ridge
Parkway.

‘*The participants certainly had many
activities to choose from,’’ said Fure. ‘‘If
anything, there were so many opportunities—
so many good opportunities—that they were
forced to make choices they would rather not
have had to make.”’

Each evening was devoted to a special
event. Tom Wolfe returned to the campus to
present a lecture entitled ‘“The Anatomy of
Courage’’ during one evening session.
Wolfe’s book, The Right Stuff, was one of
the texts used by the Alumni College. Art
profesor Pamela Simpson discussed modern
art another evening, while a Henry Street
Playhouse production of Pirates of Penzance
provided yet another evening’s activity.

For many of the alumni, the week may
have reached its climax on Thursday evening
when everyone gathered in Lee Chapel for
what was billed on the schedule as the
appearance of a special ‘mystery guest.”’

 

   

Out of the classroom, on top of the mountain at Skylark

For families, the Alumni College proved an ideal vacation.

 

 

The audience was then treated to a command
performance of piano selections by Dr.
Leyburn, who had been dean of the college
and a professor of sociology while many
Alumni College participants were students at
WL.

A crucial element for the Alumni College
involved the availability of activities for
children of alumni, which allowed many of
the participants to make the experience a
family vacation. The junior program was
directed by Laura de Maria, who with the
help of four counselors managed to keep 20
young people, ranging in age from 6 to 17,
busy with everything from computers to
psychology experiments to nature hikes.

All in all, though, the most surprising
aspect of the week had to be how earnestly
the participants approached their morning
sessions.

‘During the entire week there was only
one instance of a class being cut,’’ said
Coulling. ‘“That, to me, was particularly
amazing.

‘*We made some mistakes along the way,
too, but no one seemed to mind that much. [I
think, for instance, we probably talked too’
much and did not allow enough time or
opportunities for the participants to talk
back. Our choice of texts was not always as
good as it might have been, either.”’

And on their evaluation sheets, the
participants cited other minor problems,
ranging from the lack of adequate reading
lamps in the Woods Creek Apartments to
their preference of iced tea rather than fruit
punch in the dining hall.

“Most of the participants realized they
were on a shakedown cruise and appreciated
that,’’ said Fure. ‘‘I had been a bit concerned
about our housing situation. I was afraid
most of the people would expect the Hilton.
But Woods Creek seemed more than
satisfactory.”’

The minor irritants hardly detracted from
the essence of the week.

‘*Let me put it in perspective for you,”’
Nye said a month later. ‘‘The Alumni
College was the most stimulating intellectual
experience I’ve had in my 16 years at
Washington and Lee. And during the session
I saw some of the best teaching that I’ve seen
done here. Rarely have I had as great a
letdown as I had when the week ended.’’

Nye was not alone in his assessment. Nor
in his disappointment that it seemed to end
so quickly. There is some consolation to that
disappointment. The day after the Alumni
College concluded Fure began planning for
not one but three Alumni Colleges for the
summer of ’83. Details will be forthcoming.
Rest assured, though, the iced tea has
already been ordered.

Washburn
To Join
Development

Office

Alumni Secretary Will Work
With Estate-Planning

William C. Washburn, executive
secretary of Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., will become an associate director of
development following his retirement from
his current position, according to Farris P.
Hotchkiss, director of university relations
and development at Washington and Lee.

‘“We are extremely pleased that Bill will
begin a new chapter of service to the
University,’ said Hotchkiss, who indicated
that Washburn’s duties would involve a new
direction in W&L’s development activities.

According to Hotchkiss, Washburn will
help form a group that will direct its attention
to Washington and Lee alumni and friends
interested in making the University part of
their long-range giving and estate plans. The
effort will be particularly concerned with the
creation of income-retained, charitable-
remainder gifts and with the inclusion of
Washington and Lee in wills.

Commenting on Washburn’s new
appointment, Washington and Lee president
Robert E. R. Huntley said: ‘‘I know of no
one who has devoted himself more fully to
the Washington and Lee ideal or to the
disinterested service of Washington and
Lee’s alumni and friends than Bill
Washburn. Through his knowledge of the
W&L family, Bill will bring an enormous
capacity to help those who are interested in
making this University a part of their
financial and estate plans. We will always be
deeply grateful to Bill for his tireless efforts
as alumni secretary over the past 24 years.
And now we rejoice in his willingness to
take on this new, challenging assignment for

 

is to be filled by December 31, 1982.

Lexington, VA 24450.

 

ALUMNI SECRETARY APPLICATIONS SOUGHT

Washington and Lee University and the Board of Directors of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., announce that applications and recommendations for the position of
executive secretary of the Alumni Association are now being sought.

The position requires skills and experience in design and management of
communications programs, records systems, public events, and volunteer activities. As
one of the major spokesmen for Washington and Lee, the alumni secretary should be able
to describe articulately the University’s educational program in situations ranging from
private conversations to large gatherings. Frequent travel is required. Although not
essential, previous experience in secondary or higher education is desirable. The position

Applications and recommendations should be made by writing to Farris P. Hotchkiss,
Director of University Relations and Development, Washington and Lee University,

 

 

 

William C. Washburn

the University.’’

Washburn, who turned 64 in September,
is a 1940 graduate of W&L. He returned to
his alma mater in 1958, succeeding Cy
Young as executive secretary of the W&L
Alumni Association.

Under Washburn’s guidance, the number
of alumni chapters has more than doubled
and reunion programs have been
tremendously expanded. In addition, the
University’s Special Alumni Conference, the
Distinguished Alumnus Award, and the
Summer Alumni College were all created
during Washburn’s tenure, which also saw
construction of the Alumni House and the
institution of travel opportunities for alumni.
The number of alumni for whom records
must be kept has increased dramatically since
Washburn took over.

Russell Ladd, ’57, president of the
Alumni board of directors, noted that ‘‘Bill
Washburn ranks with the best professionals
in the field of alumni administration. The
alumni programs at Washington and Lee
have improved in quality and quantity during
a time when such efforts have been less
successful at many other fine colleges and
universities. Washington and Lee is indeed
fortunate that Bill Washburn will continue to

Noell Named
Associate
Development
Director

To Specialize In Area
Of Deferred Gifts

Milburn K. Noell Jr. has been appointed
to the new position of associate director of
development for deferred giving at
Washington and Lee.

Announcement of Noell’s appointment
was made by Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
university relations and development.

A resident of Memphis, Tenn., Noell was
formerly with the trust and legal
departments for First Tennessee Bank of
Memphis and for First Tennessee National
Corporation.

He has had substantial experience in
Washington and Lee’s development efforts,
having been a development associate of the
Board of Trustees from 1978 to the present.
Development associates served the board and
Washington and Lee as key members of the
professional staff for the University’s
recently completed development program.

‘‘Mr. Noell brings to W&L an unusual
and helpful blend of legal, estate planning,
and fund raising experience which we are
most fortunate to gain,’’ said S L Kopald,
chairman of the development committee of
the Board of Trustees. ‘‘Deferred giving is a
critically important activity for the
philanthropic financing of Washington and
Lee’s future. Mr. Noell’s skills will be
invaluable in assisting those who wish to
make the University a part of their financial
and estate plans, particularly in those trust
and estate areas where tax and income
considerations are important.”’

Noell will continue to live and have his
office in Memphis.

A 1951 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Noell received his law degree from the W&L
School of Law in 1954. After serving in the
U.S. Army from 1954 to 1956, Noell was a
law clerk to Marion Boyd, United States
District Judge for the Western District of
Tennessee from 1956 to 1958. He entered
private law practice in 1958 with the

 

Milburn K. Noell

Memphis firm of Waring, Walker, & Lewis.
He joined the First Tennessee Bank of
Memphis in 1963 and served as vice
president & trust officer and secretary of the
board of directors until 1973 when he
became bank counsel of the First Tennessee
National Corporation, a position he held until
1978.

Noell is a member of the Memphis &
Shelby County, Tennessee, and American
Bar Associations.

‘*With Milburn Noell’s appointment to
the development staff, we are now in a
strong position to bring to Washington and
Lee much needed gift resources in the form
of deferred and estate planned gifts. We will
be better able to assist alumni and friends
who are interested in these advantageous
philanthropic methods,’’ said Hotchkiss.
‘“We are fortunate to have Milburn on
board.’”’

 

serve the University following his retirement
from the executive secretary’s post.”’

The University has benefited over
virtually its entire history from the generous
provisions that alumni and friends make in
their estate plans. With Washburn’s
assistance, the efforts of the group he will
join will be directed toward a new program

of communications and discussions with
alumni and friends interested in estate
planned, or deferred, gifts. Particular
emphasis will be placed on the notable tax
and financial advantages of income retained
gifts such as unitrusts, annuity trusts, and
gifts to the Washington and Lee Pooled
Income Fund.

Initially, the group will be composed of
Washburn, Milburn K. Noell, whose
appointment is announced in the columns
above, and Carter V. McNeese, who will lend
his communications skills to the deferred
giving effort while continuing his current.
duties as associate director of development
for annual giving.

Wy.

& Gazette

 

 

Law scholarship
honors Malone

Washington and-Lee University has
received a $25,000 gift from Shuford R.
Nichols, ’30, of Little Rock, Ark., and the
Nichols Foundation for the creation of an
endowed scholarship in memory of the late
Ross L. Malone.

The Malone Scholarship will be awarded
annually to either an entering or upperclass
student in the W&L School of Law.

Malone received both his undergraduate
and law education at Washington and Lee,
earning the LL.B. degree in 1932. He held
honorary doctorates from seven colleges and
universities, including Washington and Lee.

He was president of the American Bar
Association in 1958-59 and had been deputy
attorney general of the United States in 1952-
53. He was general counsel of General
Motors Corp. until shortly before his death
on August 14, 1967. Malone had been
elected rector of the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees in May of 1967.

Nichols, whose generous gift has created
the Malone Scholarship, is the president and
director of Southern Compress, a cotton
compressing and warehousing company in
Little Rock.

A native of Des Arc, Ark., Nichols
received the B.A. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1930 and pursued graduate
studies at the Harvard Business School.

He is chairman of the board of Farmers
and Merchants Bank and is past president of
the Arkansas-Missouri Cotton Association.
He is a trustee of Arkansas College and the
Presbyterian Foundation and is a director of
the Arkansas Orchestra.

In establishing the scholarship, Nichols
expressed the hope that others would wish to
make gifts to enlarge the Malone Scholarship
so that more than one scholarship could be
awarded in an academic year.

 

 

Admissions improve
in several categories

With a record number of students (1,605)
making application to Washington and Lee

10

 

The late Ross L. Malone

last year, the University’s Class of 1986
entered with impressive credentials.

According to figures compiled by the
Office of Admissions, the University offered
admission to 794 (or 49 percent) of the 1,605
applicants. Of those offered admission, 369
(or 46 percent) indicated their intention to
enroll.

The group comes from 35 states (Virginia
leads the way with 63 students) and 301
secondary schools. Fifty-seven percent
matriculated from public secondary schools
while 43 percent came from private
secondary schools.

The mean College Board scores improved
from a year ago. The scores (excluding
students in special categories) are 565
verbal and 610 math, up from 551 verbal and
583 math. The average English Achievement
score increased 17 points to 546. The mean
rank moved from the 78th to the 79th
percentile. The class includes 19 valedictorians
and salutatorians and 24 National Merit
Finalists and Scholars.

As William M. Hartog, director of
admissions, noted, the only discouraging
element in the admissions effort involved
financial aid. Cutbacks in several federally-
funded student aid programs shifted much of
the responsibility for funding to the
University. While W&L had been able to
award all accepted students with
demonstrated need some financial aid, this

 

year the University could only reach 79
percent of those students. Still, the
University has awarded 95 scholarships to
members of the Class of ’86.

 

 

Shannon-Clark lectures
established by gift

A Washington and Lee alumnus who
wishes to remain anonymous has made a gift
to the University to support an annual lecture
in English or American literature by a
distinguished visiting scholar.

To be named The Shannon-Clark
Lectures in English, the series will honor the
memories of Edgar Finley Shannon, a former
Washington and Lee faculty member, and
Harriet Mabel Fishburn Clark, a grandmother
of the donor.

The first lecture in the series will be
delivered this fall.

Shannon, a native of Kentucky who was
educated at Centre College, the University of
Leipzig, and Harvard University, was head
of Washington and Lee’s English department
from 1914 until his death in 1938. Before
coming to Washington and Lee he taught
ancient and modern languages as well as
English at the University of Arkansas, where
he also served for one year as dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences.

He was a recognized authority on
Chaucer and the author of a standard work
on the subject, Chaucer and the Roman
Poets, and was in frequent demand as a
summer lecturer at other universities. In
addition he was an able administrator who
strengthened the English department at
Washington and Lee and exerted a lasting
influence on its program, and as chairman of
the library committee for many years he was
a significant force in the development of the
university’s holdings.

His son, Edgar Finley Shannon Jr., a
former president of the University of
Virginia and now Commonwealth Professor
of English at Virginia, is a trustee of
Washington and Lee and a noted authority on
Tennyson.

The Shannon name will be linked in the
lectureship with that of Mrs. Clark, a
daughter of native Virginian Samuel Allen

Fishburn. Mrs. Clark’s father owned and
published one of the early newspapers in
Texas, The Mexia Weekly Ledger, and it was
perhaps the investigative and reporting
instincts of her father that gave Mrs.

Clark such an inquisitive and interesting
intellect.

Educated in Texas, Mrs. Clark spent
most of her married life in Evanston, Illinois,
and later as a widow traveled extensively
before her death in 1971. It was her often
expressed desire that her grandchildren
receive a sound education that inspired one
of them to endow a lectureship in her
memory.

 

 

Library receives
Graham. Bible

A family Bible that records the birth of
William Graham, the first rector of
Washington and Lee, has been given to the
University Library by some of Graham’s
descendants.

Mr. and Mrs. Anderson Hughes Scott
along with their son, Dr. Charles K. Scott,
and their grandson, Anderson Scott, all of
Burlington, N.C., presented the gift to
Maurice D. Leach Jr., the University’s
librarian.

Published in Edinburgh in 1752, the
Graham family Bible contains notations by
Michael Graham, who came to America from
Ireland in the 1720s. The notations include
the birthdates of Michael Graham’s 10
children, including William, who achieved
prominence as a Presbyterian minister and
educator.

William Graham began teaching at
Augusta Academy and was appointed the
school’s first permanent rector when it was
renamed Liberty Hall Academy in 1776. As
the academy’s first executive, Graham was
responsible for raising money and purchasing
the books for its original library. Liberty Hall
Academy later became Washington
Academy, then Washington College, and
finally Washington and Lee University.

Graham, who resigned as rector in 1796,
is buried on the W&L campus.

The Graham family Bible subsequently
passed into the hands of the Scott family,
descendants of William Graham, of
Hawfields Plantation near Mebane, N.C.

In presenting the Bible to Washington
and Lee, Anderson Scott said the family was
particularly delighted to have the Bible at the
University because his aunt, Mamie White
Scott, had often expressed the hope that the

tis

University librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr. (second

       

from left) receives the Graham Family Bible from .

members of the Scott family. From left, Richard W. Oram, reference and public services librarian at
W&L; Leach; Anderson Hughes Scott, Dr. Charles K. Scott, and Anderson Scott.

Bible would one day be put on display at the
institution with which Graham had been
associated.

‘“The University owns very few artifacts
associated with Mr. Graham, our first
rector,’’ Leach noted. **Consequently, this
volume has unusual historical significance
for us.”’

The Graham family Bible will be
displayed in the Boatwright Room of the
University Library this fall.

 

 

Minority student aid
from Hearst Foundation

Washington and Lee has received a
$15,000 grant from the Hearst Foundation,
Inc., of New York to be used for financial
aid for minority students. |

The Hearst Foundation was established in
1935 by the late William Randolph Hearst
with assets valued at more than $42 million.

Each year the foundation awards grants
of about $2 million to a wide range of
charitable organizations. |

“The Hearst Foundation’s generous grant
is One more step—and a very important
one—in the minority recruitment program
that we have been building component-by-
component at Washington and Lee,”’ said
John L. White, director of minority affairs at
the University.

The Hearst Foundation grant is the third

such grant Washington and Lee has received
to support minority student aid in the last 15
months. Earlier, the Gannett Foundation of
Rochester, N.Y., made a $10,000 grant and
the Hillsdale Foundation of Greensboro,
N.C., made a $24,000 grant.

‘*The financial aid program has been
greatly supported by the additional revenue
these three grants have supplied,’’ said
White. ‘‘We are going to be able to reduce
or, in certain cases, eliminate student loans
incurred by next year’s freshman class. Our

: ability to attract students who might

otherwise find the price tag too steep has
been helped immeasurably.’’

The improvement in the area of financial
aid opportunities for minority students is part
of an overall effort in the area of minority

student recruitment, says White.

According to White, one of the most
important elements in the increased minority
recruitment effort has been the establishment
of a group of black alumni who have joined
forces to assist the University on several
fronts.

‘*This group, which is extremely active,
does a superb job in the crucial areas of
recruitment and fund-raising as well as by
supplying the University with names of
candidates for academic and administrative
openings as they occur,’’ said White.

The black alumni group is headed by
William B. Hill, 74, ’77L, of Atlanta. °

‘“Mr. Hill has selected several key
alumni to work in important areas,’’ said

I]

& Gazette

White. ‘‘Matthew Towns, ’74, of Winston-
Salem, N.C., for instance, heads up our
alumni recruitment program and has written
or called every prospect for the past three
years. Eugene C. Perry Jr., ’75, 78L, of
New York was instrumental in our receiving
the Hearst Foundation Grant. Derrick Abney,
°78, of Roanoke is in charge of our faculty
recruitment committee.

‘*The loyal alumni support—as well as
the strong support from parents of students—
has been at the heart of the vast
improvements we have experienced in
student recruiting and in the financial
resources necessary to recruit minority
students,’’ White said.

 

 

Diehl-Zink collection
given to library

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Zink of
Rockbridge County have given the
University Library at Washington and Lee an
important collection of books, manuscripts,
and research files relating to the history of
Rockbridge County.

The collection was begun by Zink’s
foster father, the late Dr. George West Diehl,
who was pastor of the Old Oxford
Presbyterian Church near Lexington.

To be known as the Diehl-Zink
Collection, the material includes Dr. Diehl’s
personal papers, manuscripts and notes from

 

Diehl-Zink Collection.
12

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Zink show Washington and Lee student Daniel Einstein one of the volumes in the

his books, articles on local history, and Mr.
and Mrs. Zink’s genealogical research
papers.

The Diehl-Zink Collection will add
approximately 1,400 volumes to the
University Library’s extensive holdings of
Virginia county histories, genealogies, and
biographies.

Most importantly, according to Richard
W. Oram, reference and public services
librarian at W&L, ‘‘the collection preserves
the results of 25 years of research conducted
by Dr. Diehl and by the Zinks into the
history of the Valley of Virginia and its
families.’’

Included in the collection are more than
1,000 file folders of material on Rockbridge
County genealogy and history.

Added Oram: ‘‘Dr. Diehl was especially
interested in local churches, in the conflicts
between Indians and settlers, and in the
participation by local residents in the
Revolutionary War.”’

A 1913 graduate of Washington and Lee,
Dr. Diehl died in 1975 at the age of 87. He
had moved to Rockbridge County from
Texas in 1949 and was president of the
Rockbridge Historical Society, serving later
as the society’s genealogist. Letters
contained in the collection indicate that Dr.
Diehl invariably refused to accept payment
for his services to those correspondents
interested in tracing their Rockbridge County
roots.

The materials in the collection, noted
Oram, include the ‘‘Rockbridge Notebook’’

 

 

series from The News-Gazette of Lexington.

Maurice D. Leach Jr., the University’s
librarian, said that ‘‘Dr. Diehl’s lifetime
labors and the generosity of Mr. and Mrs.
Zink have considerably enriched our rare
books and manuscript resources in Valley of
Virginia history.”’

Added Leach: ‘‘We believe that we now
have one of the most important genealogical
collections in Western Virginia, and we
invite researchers from Rockbridge County
and around the country to use the
collection.’’

Materials in the Diehl-Zink Collection
are available to interested researchers and are
found in the Special Collections department
of the University Library.

 

 

Woolfolk wins
VAB scholarship

William Woolfolk, a Washington and
Lee junior from Orange, Va., has been
awarded the annual Virginia Association of
Broadcasters Merit Scholarship for 1982-83.

The scholarship is awarded on the basis
of academic excellence and leadership
qualities to a student at a Virginia college or
university which offers courses in
journalism.

Woolfolk, a graduate of Orange County
High School, is active in WLUR-FM,
Washington and Lee’s student-operated
campus radio station. A journalism and
English major, he is a member of the W&L
Glee Club and is active in the University
Theatre.

He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L.
Woolfolk of Orange.

 

 

Workshop for lawyers

Twenty-four practicing attorneys from
throughout Virginia sharpened their
courtroom skills this week in a nine-day
workshop during June at the Washington and
Lee School of Law.

During the Virginia Continuing Legal
Education/National Institute for Trial
Advocacy program the participants worked
on individual parts of a trial—from
techniques of introducing material into
evidence to methods of examining witnesses.

The final two days of the program were
used to conduct mock trials in front of juries
composed of volunteers from the Lexington
area.

 

Practicing attorneys found the law school’s Moot Courtroom the perfect setting for mock trials during the

National Institute for Trial Advocacy program.

This was the fourth summer that W&L’s
law school was the host for the program.

As in the past, the instruction was given
by both practicing trial lawyers and judges,
all of whom volunteered their time to work
in the program.

The workshop made extensive use of the
W&L law school’s extensive video
equipment, which permitted the participants
to examine and critique their own
presentations.

 

 

Law center sponsors
uranium meeting

The uranium subcommittee of the
Virginia Coal and Energy Commission heard
expert testimony on a variety of topics
associated with uranium mining and milling
during a two-day conference sponsored by
Washington and Lee University’s Frances
Lewis Law Center in June.

In addition to the nine-member
subcommittee, which includes five state
senators, the conference was attended by
parties on both sides of the controversial
issue of whether to allow uranium mining
and milling in Virginia.

The uranium subcommittee previously
had visited uranium mining operations in
New Mexico and Colorado and had
interviewed state uranium regulations
officials in those states as part of its decision-

making process. The W&L conference was
the last phase of the subcommittee’s
information gathering.

The Virginia General Assembly enacted a
moratorium on uranium mining in Virginia
while the subcommittee made its study. That
moratorium expires on July 1, 1983.

Chief among the topics discussed by the
speakers at the conference was the question
of health hazards associated with the disposal
of radioactive uranium byproducts, known as
‘‘tailings.”’

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., director of the
Lewis Law Center, said the conference had
been extremely successful.

‘*Everyone seemed to feel that the
conference was informative, and that is what
it was meant to be,’’ Kirgis said. ‘‘It was, I
thought, informative in two important ways.
One, we had the expertise of those who had
actually confronted the problems associated
with uranium mining in such Western states
as Utah and Wyoming. And two, we had
valuable information from Virginia
groundwater geology experts who could
speak to the problems that are peculiar to this
area of the country.”’

 

 

Woodson awarded
Sears Internship

Darryl K. Woodson, a Washington and
Lee junior from Natural Bridge, Va., has

been selected for a Sears Congressional
Internship.

Woodson is one of 15 college and
university students from throughout the
country to be awarded one of the internships
sponsored by Sears, Roebuck and Company.

Under the Sears program, students
majoring in journalism are placed in
Congressional offices where they serve as
working members of a legislator’s staff.

Woodson, who will receive a stipend
from Sears for the internship, will spend the
1983 winter term in Washington, D.C.

A graduate of Natural Bridge High
School, Woodson is the third W&L student
to be awarded a Sears Congressional
Internship in the past six years.

 

 

New faculty members

Eight undergraduate teachers and three in
law joined the Washington and Lee faculty in
September.

New teachers on the undergraduate
faculty are:

Peter W. Bergstrom, assistant professor
of biology, who received his B.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Chicago.

Douglas A. Burns, instructor in geology,
who received his M.S. from the University
of Virginia, where he has served as a
teaching assistant. Burns takes the place this
year of Frederic L. Schwab, professor of
geology, who will be on leave.

John David Parker, assistant professor of
history, who received the M.A. from the
University of Texas and the Ph.D. from the
University of Washington, where he was a
teaching assistant.

Robert Lee Pour, instructor in
mathematics, who received the M.A. from
the University of Virginia and who has been
an instructor at Piedmont Virginia
Community College. Pour’s appointment is
for one year.

E. Wyatt Prunty, visiting assistant
professor of English, who is assistant
professor of English at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University. He takes the
place of Dabney Stuart, professor of English,
who will be on leave.

Debora Ann Rindge, instructor in fine
arts, who has been an instructor at the
University of Alabama in Birmingham. She
received the M.A. from Ohio State
University.

Robert Richard Ripple, assistant
professor of military science, who is a

13

Ye Gazette

captain in the Army and has served as a
platoon leader and a company commander.
He received the B.S. from the University of
Maryland.

Larry M. Stene, assistant professor of
fine arts, who received the M.F.A. in
Sculpture from the University of Illinois and
has been assistant professor at Bemidji State
University.

The new law school teachers are:

John W. Larson, visiting associate
professor of law, who is associate professor
of law at Florida State University.

Toni M. Massaro, assistant professor of
law, who received her law degree from the
College of William and Mary and was
previously an associate with the Chicago law
firm of Vedder, Price, Kaufman and
Kammholz.

Brian C. Murchison, assistant professor
of law, who received both his B.A. and law
degrees from Yale University and was
previously an associate with the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Hamel, Park, McCabe and
Saunders.

 

 

Historian Cecil appointed,
comes from Chapel Hill

Lamar Cecil Jr., an award-winning
teacher and author of two books on German
history, has been appointed professor of
history at Washington and Lee.

Cecil previously served as professor of
history at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, where he was a 1977 winner of
the Tanner Award for “‘excellent and
inspirational teaching’’ at the undergraduate
level. The Tanner Award at UNC-Chapel
Hill is made on the basis of a campus-wide
vote of students and faculty.

A native of Beaumont, Tex., Cecil
received the B.A. from Rice University and
the Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

He was an instructor in history at Johns
Hopkins in 1962-63 and an instructor and an
assistant professor of history at Princeton
University from 1963 to 1968.

He joined the faculty at UNC-Chapel Hill
as an associate professor in 1968 and was
named professor of history in 1973.

The author of numerous articles in
scholarly journals, Cecil is the author of a
1967 book, Albert Ballin: Business and
Politics in Imperial Germany, which was
published by the Princeton University Press
with a German edition published in Hamburg
in 1969. He is also the author of The German

14

Seven W&L alumni and one current student were members of the 26-man staff for head lacrosse coach

      

BE TB:

Jack Emmer’s eighth annual boys’ lacrosse camp. From left, Geoff Brent, ’81; Eric Kemp, W&L assistant
coach; Emmer; Ken Miller, ’75; Stu Kiehne, ’83 ; John Sancilio, ’82; Jack Dudley, ’77; Dave Nickels, ’82;
Rob Staugaitis, ’82; and, Jeff Fritz, ’79. The staff, working with Emmer and assistants Kemp and Chuck
O'Connell, honed the skills of 250 participants, aged 10 to 17.

Diplomatic Service, 1871-1914 and is
currently working on a biography of Wilhelm
Il.

His major research fields are 19th century
Europe and Germany. He has received
research grants from the American Council
of Learned Societies, the German Academic
Exchange Service, and the Research Council
of the University of North Carolina.

 

 

Jarvis named

Jeannette Ann Jarvis has been named
assistant registrar at Washington and Lee
University.

A native of Timber Ridge and a resident
of Buena Vista, Jarvis joined the staff of the
registrar at Washington and Lee in 1965 after
previously being employed by Lees Carpets.

 

 

Faculty activities

—Washington and Lee geology professor
Frederic L. Schwab is the editor of a new
volume on geosynclines published by the
Hutchinson Ross Publishing Company. The
volume, entitled ‘‘Geosynclines: Concept
and Place with Plate Tetonics,’’ is part of the
Benchmark Series in Geology. Composed of

44 papers dating from as far back as 1853,
the volume attempts to update the theories of
how mountains are formed.

Schwab has also been awarded a Basic
Research Grant from the American
Philosophical Society in partial support of
ongoing research projects he will be pursuing
in Europe during the 1982-83 academic year
while on sabbatical leave from W&L. He
will study deep water sedimentary rocks in
the northern Appenine Mountains of Italy
and will also be conducting research on the
Isle of Corsica and in the Swiss Alps.

Schwab has been a member of the W&L
faculty since 1967.

—James Boatwright, editor of
Shenandoah, the Washington and Lee
Literary Review, is the judge for a prize in
fiction currently being sponsored by The
Missouri Review. The first annual $500
William Peden Prize in Fiction will be
awarded later this summer to the author of
‘‘the best piece of short fiction in The
Missouri Review during a given volume
year.’’ Boatwright, professor of English at
Washington and Lee, has been editor of
Shenandoah since 1962. He has served on
the Coordinating Council of Literary
Magazines and the Literature Panel of the
National Endowment for the Arts, and has
been a fiction judge for the National Book
Awards.

—A geology textbook written by
Washington and Lee professor Edgar W.
Spencer has been translated into Russian.
Spencer’s book, Introduction to the Structure
of the Earth, will be printed by a Russian
publishing house. Originally published by
McGraw-Hill in 1969 with a second edition
released in 1977, the text is designed for use
in college-level courses that deal with the
structural features of the earth’s crust. A
1953 graduate of Washington and Lee with a
Ph.D. in geology from Columbia University,
Spencer joined the W&L faculty in 1957 and
was named head of the geology department
in 1959. He is the author of four other
college textbooks in geology.

—Roger D. Groot, professor of law at
Washington and Lee University, has
published an article in a recent issue of the
American Journal of Legal History. Groot’s
article is entitled ‘‘The Jury of Presentment
Before 1215’ and examines the origins of
jury trials. According to Groot, English
juries before the year 1215 both accused (like
a grand jury) and issued a verdict (like a
petty jury). Before 1215, a verdict of guilty
caused the accused to be tried further by
ordeal. Trials by ordeal were abolished by
the church in 1215, and in England the jury’s
verdict on guilt or innocence became final.
Groot’s article further indicates that on the
Continent, where there were no juries,
abolition of trial by ordeal left no alternative
form of trial; thus, the French resorted to
judicial torture to obtain confessions. The
existence of the verdict jury in England
before 1215 spared the English that
development.

A graduate of the University of North
Carolina School of Law, Groot joined the
faculty at Washington and Lee in 1973.

—Miuinor L. Rogers, associate professor
of religion at Washington and Lee, presented
a paper at a conference on **Buddhism in
Japanese History and Society’’ in June. The
conference, held at Harvard University, was
the sixth and final meeting in a three-year
group research project, ‘“Buddhism in
Japanese Civilization: Humanistic
Inquiries.’’ The project was funded by the
National Endowment for the Humanities and
sponsored by the John King Fairbank Center
for East Asian Research of Harvard
University. The fourth conference,
‘*Buddhism in Japanese Art,’’ was held last
June at Skylark, Washington and Lee’s
retreat on the Blue Ridge Parkway.

—The third edition of a textbook on the
economic development of low-income
countries, co-authored by Washington and

 

Lee economics professor Bruce Herrick, has
recently appeared in a Japanese translation.
McGraw-Hill is the publisher of both the
English and Japanese versions of the text,
which Herrick wrote with Charles
Kindleberger of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. A further revision, the fourth
edition, is now being printed.

Herrick is head of the economics
department at Washington and Lee.

 

 

Davidson Park disappears

The Davidson Park apartments, the
college home of several generations of
Washington and Lee students as well as a
number of faculty members, are no more.

The five apartment buildings were razed
this summer after the University determined
that the facility was costing more in
maintenance and repairs than it could
realistically charge the student tenants.

Built in 1946 along with another set of
apartments known as Hillside Terrace, the
Davidson Park complex was to be
‘‘temporary’’ housing for World War II
veterans and their families. The Hillside
Terrace apartments were torn down in 1975.

The barracks-like buildings were
constructed from surplus government
installations and were known originally as
the University’s ‘‘pre-fabs.’’

Designed and used primarily as married
student housing, Davidson Park did serve as
the first Lexington home for several members
of the faculty and staff, including William J.
Watt and Edward C. Atwood, deans of the
College and the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics, respectively.

Davidson Park consisted of five separate
buildings, each of which contained five
apartments. Two of the apartments had been
used for storage in recent years while the
University was renting 23 units.

The buildings stood on land given to the
University by Clara Davidson Estill. The
University has no immediate plans for use of
the site.

 

Workmen dismantle one of the Davidson Park buildings.

1)

Another Record Annual Fund

Unrestricted Gifts Toward Operating Expenses Amount To $1,279,983

Washington and Lee’s 1981-82 Annual
Fund enjoyed yet another record-setting year,
establishing new highs in virtually every
category. :

Unrestricted gifts toward the University’s
day-to-day operating expenses amounted to a
record net of $1,279,983.

That figure represents an increase of 9.3
percent over last year’s total of $1,170,941.
It marks the third time in the past three years
that the Annual Fund at W&L has exceeded
$1 million.

Other 1981-82 records:

—Total number of contributions: 6,437,
up from last year’s 6,266;

—Average gift: $201, up from last year’s
$189;

—Number and total amount of gifts at
the Lee Associates level ($1,000 or more):
397 gifts totaling $677,808, up from 367 and
$615,767 last year;

—Number and total amount of gifts at
the Colonnade Club level ($100 to $999):
2,898 gifts totaling $516,831, up from 2,591
and $500,018 last year.

The average Lee Associate gift was
$1,707. The average Colonnade Club gift
was $178. Together members of the Lee
Associates and the Colonnade Club gave
$1,194,639—92.2 percent of the fund
total—and made up 51.2 percent of all fund
donors.

The University had set a goal of
$1,250,000 for the 1981-82 Annual Fund.
The final total exceeded that goal by $29,983
and provided almost 10 percent of the

University’s operating budget.

The University counts toward its annual
fund only gifts actually received by June 30,
the close of the fund year, and does not
include restricted or capital gifts. (The 1981-
82 net total was reached by deducting
$14,805 in unpaid pledges at the end of the
fund year; many of those pledges have been
paid since June 30 and will be applied to the
1981-82 fund.)

 

William F. Ford, ’61L, of Atlanta was
the chairman of the 1981-82 Annual Fund.
Milton T. Herndon, ’56L, of Huntington,
W.Va., was Law Alumni chairman; Peter A.
Agelasto III, ’62, of Norfolk, Va., was
Academic Alumni chairman; G. T. Alfano of
Butler, Pa., was Current Parents chairman;
W. Martin Kempe of Orange, Va., was Past
Parents chairman; and, Guy T. Steuart II,
°53, was Robert E. Lee Associates chairman.

 

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND

June 30, 1981

Donors Dollars

Academic Alumni 81-82 4,908 $ 994,400
80-8 1 4.790 903,050

Law Alumni 81-82 1,007 166,275
80-8 1 972 151,687

Current Parents 81-82 248 49,361
80-8 | 80-8 | 283 58,979
Past Parents 81-82 188 61,788
80-8 | 166 62,516

Friends 81-82 86 22,964
80-8 | 89 0,727

TOTALS 81-82 6,437 $1,294,788
80-8 | 6,266 $1,186,959

CURRENT PARENTS—.G. T. Alfano, Chairman
%
Jo Avg. Area Area Chairman Donors Dollars Fart,
Part. Gift I H. A. Baumgaertner ao oO.925 are
37 $203 II R. E. Hanks 29 4,500 20.1
37.0 $190 Ill F. K. Turner 28 3,365 23.0
42.3 $165 IV J. C. Kendrick 29 2,983 15.9
42.4 $156 V G. C. Finly 16 3,770 12.8
VI R. H. Park 28 5,115 3
i oe Vil J. D. LeBlanc 11 7,563 12.6
Vill R. G. Sheldon 30 6,565 23.6
28.0 $329 IX T.B. Rentschler 25 8,575 26.0
a7 2 $377 ore eae oe -“ oo
—_ $267 Total 248 $49,361 “19.8
oy $121

a7 $201 PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman

36.9 $189 W. M. Kempe 188 $61,788 28.0

 

 

16

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1981-82

ACADEMIC CLASSES—Peter A. Agelasto III, Chairman

Class Class Agent

Donors

Group IA-W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman*

All Other W.C. Washburn*
14A A. W. McCain*

ISA R. N. Latture*
16A E. B. Shultz
17A W. J. Cox

— 18A A. Beall*
21A S. L. Raines
23A F. B. Hurt
24A R. M. Jenkins
TOTAL*

GROUP II-A—H. G. Jahncke, Vice Chairman*

25A E. T. Andrews*
26A T. T. Moore*
27A G. E. Burks*
28A P. Cohen*

29A T. G. Gibson
30A L. P. Brown*
31A H. M. Minniece*
32A E. P. Martin*
TOTAL*

33

GROUP III-A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman

33A C. J. Longacre*
34A S. Mosovich
35A G. J. McGeory*
36A G. W. Harrison*
37A R. K. Stuart
38A J. H. Reid*

39A V. F. Radcliffe
TOTAL

GROUP IV-A—E. R. Marable, Vice Chairman

40A R. V. Hersey
41A A. T. Fleishman*

42A N. H. Brower
43A A. D. Darby
44A G. T. Wood
45A M. M. Hirsh
46A E. S. Willis
4TA W. G. Merrin*
48A W. B. Potter
49A M. W. Saurs
TOTAL

GROUP V-A—C. D. Hurt Jr.,

50A W.N. Clements*
SIA J. B. McCutcheon
52A W. D. McGrew
53A L. A. Putney*

54A F. A. Parsons
55A J. H. Marion*
56A J. R. O’Connell
STA J. B. Howard
58A V. W. Holleman
S59A T. B. Bryant*
TOTAL

GROUP VI-A—J. W. Jennings, Vice Chairman

60A  M. Lassman
61A E. B. Olds

62A W.D. Outman ©
63A G. O. Thornhill

64A C. H. Sheild*
65A J. W. Rutter
66A R. A. Tyler
67A W. H. Jeffress*
68A C. H. Capito
69A M. L. Halford
TOTAL

GROUP VII-A—G. A. Frierson III, Vice Chairman

T0A J. A. Meriwether*
TIA R. E. Minor

Tans S. W. Robinson
7T3A G. A. Frierson

Vice Chairman

91
87
106
104
lai
102
108
124
110
140
1,099

119

99
111
105

Dollars

$ 14,447
511
2,420
635
3,370
8,545
380
2,090
5,246

$ 37,644

$ 8,006
8,141
7,216

20,274
87s
28,182
23,585
17,500
$121,699

$ 17,562
12,379
Told
16,531
14,908
31,750
19,427
$120,072

$ 80,768
16,003
23,905
19,357
15,124
16,455
10,180

8,045
8,104
19,523
$217,464

$ 25,656
Zonta
20,643
23,940
22,822
23,880
15,036
17,453
20,452
20,428

$216,031

$ 18,130
14,295
20,388
11,365
18,012
14,661
10,480
12,566
16,744
19,869

$156,510

$ 18,557
12,122
14,050
11,298

%
Part.

31.4
ao
50.0
42.9
66.7
47.6
42.9
38.0
are
38.4

42.9
59.6
48.8
42.0
45.8
49.0
36.6
45.8

57.4
45.0
47.6
47.7
40.2
3n3
42.2
43.5
on
48.1
45.1

33.3
47.4

36.5
28.5
33.3
41.2
38.1
3352

38.0

38.2
22.0
39.8
37.8

38.1
35.1
43.4
36.5

39.7

Sous
31.1
33.4
eo.2

 

T4A W. P. Wallace 98
T5A J. V. Baird* 109
76A C. T. Jackson* 124
TTA T. Atwood 85
7T8A J. L. Bruch 111
TOA C. S. Jones 106
80A C. Cornett* 120
81A C. Gammon* 119
TOTAL 1,306

LAW CLASSES—Milton T. Herndon, Chairman

Class Class Agent Donors

GROUP I-L—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman*

All Other* 2G
23L W. W. Ogden* -
26L R. O. Bentley* 5
29L S. C. Strite* 5
TOTAL* 35
GROUP II-L—O. B. McEwan

30L L. H. Davis* 6
31L M. M. Weinberg 10
321. M. P. Burks* 11
33L F. R. Bigham ie
34L S. W. Wise 7
DOL No Agent 6
36L W. L. Martin 5
SIL J. Arnold 12
38L No Agent 5
39L E. L. Smith* 21
40L O. B. McEwan 11
41L J_E. ‘Peérry* 13
42L R. O. McDonald* 11
TOTAL 130
GROUP III-L—J. B. Porterfield, Vice Chairman
48L C. R. Allen* 37
49L J. B. Porterfield 24
50L W. J. Ledbetter* 23
SIL S. H. Shott* 28
52k. J. ©. Reed* 26
53L R. L. Banse 11
54L D. R. Klenk 14
55L R. W. Hudgins 13
56L R. S. Harp 9
57L O. P. Pollard Ey
58L R. E. Stroud* 12
59L J. F. Richards 10
TOTAL 226
GROUP IV-L—H. M. Bates, Vice Chairman
60L J. L. Lyle 17
61L R. E. Shepherd 16
62L R. R. Robrecht 11
63L L. Sargeant 13
64L R. K. Morton 19
65L L. G. Griffiths 22
66L G. W. Wooten nt
67L J. C. Treadway 15
68L M. L. Lowry* 29
69L D. D. Redmond* 30
TOTAL 193
GROUP V-L—J. D. Kline, Vice Chairman*
70L D. W. Thornton* 20
TIL H. W. Walker : 20
72L J. A. Philpott* os
73L M. H. Squires* 58
74L L. H. Framme 30
ISL C. J. Habenicht 32
76L Hal & Nan Clarke* 41
Tih D. M. Thomas 35
78L D. Swope 33
T9L J. F. Murphy* 46
80L J. K. Boyden 30
81L D. G. Weaver 43
TOTAL* 420

*Met or exceeded goal

9,290
24,082

9, fal
5,420
6,028
5,026
5,336
3,948
$124,878

Dollars

$ 7,880
1,250
650

475
$10,255

$ 1,320
8,200
7,842
1,350
4,675
3,350

450

oO oue
3,115
2,075
3,000
3,590
L203
$43,794

$ 5,412
4,020
5,380
5,610
3,725
1,185
2,625
1,430
1,860
9,638
2,962
2,780

$48 627

$ 2,112
6,595
1,675
Lilie
1,885
1,770
2,705
2,680
4,160
2,590

$27,884

$ 3,036
1,740
5,395

4,454
2,916
1,895
7,580

1,585
1,891
2,652
1,265
1,163

$35,572

26.9
31.8
g2.5
toe
29,7
28.2
29.1
33.8
30.1

%
Part.

33.8
42.9
100.0
41.7
39.3

66.7
71.4
61.1
75.0
41.1
42.9
50.0
70.6
D1
67.7
37.9
54.2
34.4
54.9

50.7
30.8
54.3
318
52.0
33.3
50.0
37.1
42.9
a3
46.2
30.3
43.6

44.7
40.0
28.9
36.1
38.8
48.9
42.0
208
40.3
41.7
39.0

50.0
34.5
38.0
58.6
34.5
40.0
52.6

43.4
aO.4
25.6
35.8
40.2

17

 

Chapter News

EASTERN KENTUCKY. An enthusiastic
group of alumni, wives, and guests were
entertained royally at the Headley-Whitney
Museum in Lexington, Ky., on May 15,
1982. Cocktails and hors d’oeuvres were
served while the guests toured the museum to
view the exquisite exhibitions of jewels and
porcelain. George Headley was in attendance
to greet the guests. Arrangements were made
by Mr. and Mrs. John Bagby, ’73, with able
assistance from W. Gay Reading Jr., ’65. In
attendance to the delight of all was Charles
M. Landrum, ’41, the newly elected
president of the Kentucky Bar Association.
Alumni secretary Bill Washburn, ’40, and
his wife, Libby, were on hand and made a
few remarks about Washington and Lee.
After announcing future plans for chapter
activities, President Bagby adjourned the
meeting with a stirring rendition of the
Washington and Lee Swing.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA. The
chapter held its first alumni meeting/beach
party on May 1, 1982. Enjoying ideal
weather, the group gathered on Emerald
Island at the oceanfront cottage of chapter
president Walter Lockhart, ’69. Though a

 

George Headley was there to greet the guests.

and W. Henry Graddy, ’69.
18

ASTERN KENTUCKY—Enjoying the entertainment at the Headley-Whitne
Museum are Fred G. Francis, ’39; John R. Bagby, ’73L; and Joyce Craft.

EASTERN KENTUCKY—Among those at the museum gathering to see the jewels
and porcelain were Beverly Youmans; David Bissett III, ’70; Walter May, ’71;

long way from the bluegrass of Kentucky,
the guests did get into the spirit of the day
when Jack Daughtrey, ’65, organized a
Derby Day pool before the dinner. Following
the delightful meal, Lockhart reported on his
impressions from the Special Alumni
Conference which he attended on the campus
last October. Greg Crampton, ’69, of
Raleigh was elected the new chapter
president in elections held later in the
evening. Dr. Charles Duffy, ’27, of New
Bern, closed the evening by sharing with the
group his Calyx.

RICHMOND. A highlight of the chapter’s
program this year was a cocktail-dinner party
held June 10 at the Commonwealth Club.
Ross Millhiser, vice chairman of Philip
Morris, Inc., and a trustee of Washington
and Lee, was the special guest and speaker
for the occasion. In his remarks, Millhiser
extolled the role of liberal education, citing
specifically Washington and Lee’s role in the
education of students pursuing business-
related studies. After opening remarks of
welcome by chapter president Lee Keiger III,
°76, Millhiser was introduced by William E.
(Bill) Garrison, ’76. Before adjourning the

 

 

meeting, Keiger announced some of the
chapter’s plans for the summer, including the
annual golf match against Hampden-Sydney.
He expressed special thanks to William C.
French, ’73, vice president of the chapter,
through whose membership the dinner was
arranged at the Commonwealth Club. As a
token of its appreciation and in recognition
of his outstanding service to Washington and
Lee, the chapter presented Millhiser with a
copy of the book, Lee—The Last Years.

SAN DIEGO. Bruce Herrick, professor of
economics and head of the economics
department at Washington and Lee, was a
special guest at a cocktail party held on April
29, 1982, at the Cuyamaca Club in the
Executive Hotel in San Diego. Herrick,
formerly on the faculty at UCLA, made
interesting comparisons between W&L and
UCLA as well as providing the alumni and
their wives with up-to-date reports on the
University. Arrangements at the Cuyamaca
Club were made through the good offices of
L. Hunter Tracht, ’60. John D. Klinedinst,
"71, °78L, president of the chapter,
announced plans for future activities
scheduled for the summer.

 

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—At the beach party were Charles Duffy, ’27;
Jack Daughtrey, ’65; Wes Murfin, ’68; John Heard, ’53; Lewis Hannah, ’74;

Greg Crampton, ’69; and Walter Lockhart, ’69.

 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—Economics Professor Bruce Herrick (right) at a
San Francisco alumni reception arranged by Nat Baker, ’67. Herrick met again

the next day with San Diego alumni (see story above).

 

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profits from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

Now Available: A child’s Boston Rocker in natural dark pine stain, with the crest in
gold. Price $55.00.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price as
the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

ARM CHAIR, Black Lacquer with Cherry Arms, $125.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER, All Black Lacquer, $110.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

CHILD’S BOSTON ROCKER, Natural Dark Pine Stain, $55.00 f.o.b. Lexington,
Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include you name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

 

J. M. Wisdom, ’25

1928

FRANK BENJAMIN Hurt, professor emeritus of
Ferrum College, received an honorary Doctor of
Humanities degree from that college during their
commencement exercises on May 16. The honorary
degree medallion and citation were presented in
recognition of Professor Hurt’s ‘‘distinguished con-
tributions to society, to education, and to the college
as well as his outstanding accomplishments in the
field of education.’ Professor Hurt served on the
faculty at Ferrum from 1927 to 1929, joined the
political science department at Western Maryland
College in 1930 and remained there until 1965 when
he was named professor emeritus. He returned to
Ferrum in 1965 as head of the division of social
sciences and in 1970 became professor emeritus. He
also taught at the Hun School of Princeton, the Uni-
versity of Maryland and the University of North
Carolina. In 1970 the Ferrum board of trustees com-
missioned Professor Hurt to write the first official
history of the college and in June 1977 A History of
Ferrum College—An Uncommon Challenge 1914-
1974 was published. His professional memberships
are many ranging from the American Political Science
Association to the American Historical Association
and the American Academy of Social Sciences. Pro-
fessor Hurt is listed in numerous publications and his
most recent honor was selection last fall to the Western
Maryland Sports Hall of Fame. Professor Hurt is
active in the Franklin County Historical Society and
is currently chairman of the board of directors of the
First National Bank of Ferrum. He recently completed
work on a book entitled The Eighteenth Century
Heritage of the German People of Franklin County,
Virginia.

1925

JOHN MINoR Wispoo, Judge of the U.S. Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals in New Orleans, La., and a vital
influence in the progress of civil rights through land-
mark desegregation decisions in the 1960s, was prin-
cipal speaker at commencement exercises at Haver-
ford College on May 17, 1982. Haverford College
conferred an honorary degree upon Judge Wisdom
along with three other individuals, one of whom was
Nomzamo Winnie Mandela, wife of Nelson Mandela,
the imprisoned leader of the African National Con-
gress in South Africa.

HERMAN J. WoMELDORF of Raleigh, N.C., is retired
after 51 years as an active minister in the Presbyterian
Church USA. In his work he has seen the organizing
and building of four churches and six educational
buildings.

1927

THE Rev. R. WILBUR SIMMONS retired in 1969 and
lives in Claremont, Calif. He has served eight interim
pastorates.

[ae

Harry E. Gopwin, after 30 years as a manufacturer’s
representative for automotive parts, is now semi-re-
tired and lives in Memphis, Tenn. Godwin had also

19

Class Notes

had an outstanding career in jazz music. He is still
active as a musicologist and is currently on the Mem-
phis Music Commission. He is also a board member
of Tulane University Jazz Archive in New Orleans.

HENRY POELLNITZ JOHNSTON Sr. has retired from
the Jefferson County (Alabama) Personnel Board after
24 years of service. Johnston has been widely recog-
nized for his service to the public. While he may be
more widely recognized for his work before he retired
as chief executive and manager of WSGN radio and
WAPI television, he served on numerous boards and
commissions as well as supported and led campaigns
for charitable enterprises.

1930

L. PALMER BROwN, president emeritus of the Mem-
phis-based L. P. Brown Co. and a recipient of the
Washington and Lee Distinguished Alumnus Award,
was presented the Distinguished Service Medal by
Southwestern at Memphis University during their
graduation exercises on June 5. Brown has been a
member of Southwestern’s board of trustees since
1967. He additionally chaired the board’s finance
committee and served as president of the Charles E.
Diehl Society (a club for special donors) and as treas-
urer of the college. In 1960 Brown was named ‘‘Mem-
phis’ Outstanding Citizen’’ by the Civitan Club. He
is a past president of the Downtown Association, the
Family Service Organization, Future Memphis Inc.,
the board of trustees of Methodist Hospital and the
Memphis Cotton Carnival Association. On a broader
scale, Brown has served as national president of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society and as chairman
of the American Red Cross’ national convention.

THE REV. LEON R. ROBISON JR. is retired and lives in
St. Louis, Mo. He is minister emeritus of the Second
Baptist Church of St. Louis which he served for 20
years.

Harry E. TRAIL retired in 1961 from the Army and
from the insurance business in 1974. He lives in
Montgomery, Ala., where he is busily engaged in
church work, mental health, and working with
crippled children.

1931

Dr. EDWARD M. RILEY retired in 1977 as director of
research of Colonial Williamsburg Foundation and as
a lecturer in history at the College of William and
Mary. He edited 21 booklets on Virginia in the
American Revolution for the Virginia Independence
Bicentennial Commission.

1932

HERBERT G. DOLLAHITE II retired in 1972 after over
40 years in resort hotel management primarily with
the Royal Hawaiian Hotel on Waikiki Beach in
Honolulu. He operated 36 resort hotels in 1946-47.
For the past year, Dollahite has served as assistant to
the president of the Hawaiian Vacation Council as
liaison officer, Waikiki Trade Center, in Honolulu.

20

D. GEORGE PRICE is an example of his own axiom
that retirement is worthwhile only if you have a
hobby, an avocation, or an interest. Working at a
nursery school in Chevy Chase has given him all

three. The publication 50 Plus bestowed upon him

the 1982 Bridging of the Generation Gap award.
Price, a widower and a retired Navy commander,
goes every Thursday to the St. Paul Nursery School
where he conducts ‘‘shops’’ in which he has devised
ingenious and original techniques for teaching small
children to manufacture their own toys, games, and
home decorations out of articles like milk containers,
and egg cartons, as well as to use their imaginations
in other constructive ways. The whole purpose, says
Price, is to make the children ‘‘feel confident and
self-reliant.”’

1933

ETHELBERT (BERT) EVANS of Montgomery, Ala.,
has been awarded a Paul Harris Fellowship by Rotary
International.

1935

David J. BENNETT Jr., an information specialist
with Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia, has
received his Accredited Business Communicator
designation (ABC) from the International Association
of Business Communications. Bennett has been with
Fox Chase Cancer Center for 10 years. During his
career he also spent many years with the Radio and
Television Division of Triangle Publications, and he
has worked as an independent communications con-
sultant.

1936

WILLIAM C. (BILL) BARBEE of Washington, D.C.,
recently took a two week tour with the Johns Hopkins
Alumni College group to Istanbul and Western Asia
Minor to see the old as well as the more recent
archaeological digs.

1938

THOMAS A. MALLoy JR. is a retired professor emeri-
tus of Ferris State College. He is a member of the
West Michigan Advisory Council for the Area Agency
on Aging, and is chairman of the VFW post 4102
building committee. He currently is working on a
manuscript Iceland: The Cooperative Society.

JOHN H. SHOAF of The Woodlands, Texas, has been
appointed senior representative of the government of
New Brunswick in Texas. New Brunswick is located
on the east coast of Canada, close to offshore oil and
gas activity. The province shares a common border
with Maine. Shoaf will promote New Brunswick to
potential investors in the southeast United States. He
has 35 years experience in trade development and
promotion, 15 of those years were with the U.S.
Department of Commerce.

ROBERT M. WHITE II, editor and publisher of the
Mexico Ledger in Mexico, Mo., and a former member
of the Alumni Board of Directors, continues to serve
his state and community in exceedingly fine ways.

Recently he was elected president of the Missouri
Public Expenditure Survey, a research organization
on state and local finances. The International Press
Institute elected White as chairman of the American
Committee. The organization, dedicated to a free
press, is helping editors, publishers and reporters
around the world who have been imprisoned or exiled.
White was instrumental in establishing a scholarship
at the Mexico High School known as the Ledgerland
Scholarship and sponsored by the Ledger. The Mis-
souri Military Academy also received a personal gift
from White for “‘endowed scholarships.’’ On an even
broader scale, White was recently elected president of
the Douglas MacArthur Memorial Foundation which
is headquartered in Norfolk, Va.

[939

Dr. JOHN T. Fey, formerly chairman of the board of
the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S., has
been named chairman of the board of National Bank
of North America. Fey joined Equitable in 1974
following his presidency of the National Life Insur-
ance Co. Earlier in his career he served as president of
the University of Wyoming and as president of the
University of Vermont. Fey also had an earlier period
as dean of George Washington University Law School
and as a clerk in the United States Supreme Court.

1940

RALPH P. BAKER, a prominent surgeon in Newberry,
S.C., has been elected to the 1982 board of visitors of
the Medical University of South Carolina in Charles-
ton. Baker received his M.D. degree from Duke
University’s School of Medicine. He was a Fellow in
Pathology at George Washington University School
of Medicine, Washington, D.C., and a resident in
surgery at the new George Washington Hospital in
Washington, D.C. He is a Fellow in the American
College of Surgeons and the American Society of
Abdominal Surgeons. He is a member of the American
Medical Association and the South Carolina Medical
Society, and is currently secretary-treasurer of both
organizations. Baker is married to the former Eliza-
beth Renwick and they have five children.

HAL B. WATTERSON of Signal Mountain, Tenn., has
retired after 41 years of service with E. I. duPont de
Nemours & Co. Inc.

194]

THEODORE A. BRUINSMA of Rancho Palos Verdes is
a republican candidate for the senate from California.
Bruinsma is a former dean of Loyola Law School and
a former major corporation president.

RICHARD W. SMITH, an attorney in Staunton, Va.,
has recently moved from his position as senior partner
to that of counsel for the law firm. Smith now spends
a portion of his time raising angus cattle. He was
recently elected president of the board of trustees of
The King’s Daughters’ Hospital in Staunton.

1942

EARLE PALMER Brown and his advertising agency

   

F.C. Brooks, ’46

won the most awards in the Advertising Club of
Washington’s annual Addy Awards competition.
Brown won eight of 28 Addys, including three for
newspaper ads, two for consumer magazines and a
business publications award for advertisements pro-
moting the agency itself. He also won awards in the
category for television advertisements.

1943

ALBERT D. Darby has been named city editor of the
Cumberland (Md.) News. Darby, has been with the
Times and Alleganian Co., parent company of the
News, in various reportorial and editorial positions
since joining the company 32 years ago.

BARTON W. Morris, president of Times-World Corp.
in Roanoke, has been appointed chairman of the
board. The announcement was made by the president
of Landmark Communications Inc., the parent com-
pany. Morris joined the Roanoke newspaper in 1945
as a general assignment reporter. In the next five
years he became city hall reporter, police writer, and
legislative correspondent. After a brief tenure as
assistant to the general manager and promotion man-
ager, he was made executive editor and served until
becoming publisher in 1973. He was made president
in 1978. Morris, active in civic affairs, is a former
chairman and president of United Way. He has served
on the boards of Virginia Western Community Col-
lege, Red Cross, Family Service, and the Roanoke
Museum of Fine Arts. He is currently a director of the
Roanoke Symphony Society.

1944

HOWARD GREENBLATT, an attorney and real estate
consultant in Chicago, took a trip last winter on the
Orinoco River in Venezuela.

1946

FRANK C. BROOKS, a trustee of Washington and Lee
University, has been named president of the board of
trustees of Boys’ Latin School in Baltimore, Md.

1949

RICHARD S. COOLEY is chairman of the mathematics
department at Buckley School in New York City. He
lives in Peapack, N.J.

HENRY H. Hicks has been named press secretary
to U.S. Senator Paula Hawkins of Florida. Hicks
lives in Arlington, Va.

1950

F. ALDEN Murray Jr. is the first member of the
Washington Board of Realtors to be awarded the
coveted Certified-Commercial Investment Member
(CCIM) designation by the Realtors National Mar-
keting Institute, an affiliate of the National Associa-
tion of Realtors. The CCIM designation is awarded
only to highly educated specialists who draw from
market experience and intensive study to help clients
analyze and meet investment objectives. Murray is
president of Alden Inc. Realtors in Bethesda, Md. He

F. A. Murray Jr., ’50

   

is also past president of the Washington chapter of the
American Society of Appraisers and is designated
senior member, Urban Real Estate (ASA) by that
society, and senior member (CRA) of the National
Association of Review Appraisers and Senior Mem-
ber (SCV) of the International Institute of Valuers,
Geneva, Switzerland.

Dr. GEORGE H. PIERSON Jr. will celebrate his 10th
anniversary, on July 1, 1982, as radiologist with
Greensboro Radiology Associates at the Moses H.
Cone Memorial Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. He
and his wife, Betty, have one son and two daughters.

JOSEPH H. REESE Jr., CLU, has been elected presi-
dent, chief operating officer and a member of the
board of directors of Provident Indemnity Life Insur-
ance Co. of Norristown, Pa.

1951

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON, a
daughter, Ashley Margaret, on March 9, 1982. The
family lives in Valencia, Calif.

NORMAN R. LEMCKE JR. is now director of admis-
sions at the University School in Milwaukee. He lives
in Mequon, Wisc.

1952

JOHN J. (JOE) KINDRED III is vice president at Manu-
facturer Hanover Trust Co. in New York City and in
charge of the estates and trusts and tax departments.

DEROY Scott Jr. is currently associated with Paul
Semonin Co., a real estate firm in Louisville, Ky.

1953

THE REv. CHARLES F. MCNutTT JR., who has served
as coadjutor since 1980, was invested as bishop of the
Episcopal Diocese of Central Pennsylvania on June
12 at the Annual Diocesan Convention held at Buck-
nell University. McNutt was a former clergyman and
city council member in Martinsburg, W.Va. He has
served dioceses in Florida and West Virginia.

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II finished second place in the
recently run Long Beach to LaPaz yacht race. He
resides in Santa Clara, Calif., and is the chairman of
the United Republican Finance Committee.

1954

RAYMOND F. BEE has been transferred by U.S. Steel
Co. to their plant in Gary, Ind., as a stock foreman.

THE REv. DANIEL D. DICKENSON is serving as ad-
ministrator of Westminster-Cantebury in Virginia
Beach, a Presbyterian-Episcopal life core community
which opened March 29, 1982, after five years of
preparation and construction. Dickenson also serves
as chairman of the Advisory Committee to the Pres-
byterian Office on Aging of the Presbyterian Church
in the U.S., and the United Presbyterian Church in
the U.S.A.

Dr. W. BARLOW INABET has been elected president
of the North Carolina Society of otolaryngology and
maxillofacial surgery. The society held its annual
meeting in August 1982 at the World’s Fair in Knox-
ville, Tenn.

NICHOLAS G. MAHDAK of Clifton, N.J., has been
elevated to judge of the Superior Court of New Jersey
as of December 21, 1981, after nomination by the
governor and confirmation by the New Jersey Senate.

SEDGWICK L. Moss of Arlington, Va., is president of
the Washington, D.C., Volvo Club.

JUDGE WILEY R. WRIGHT Jr. has recently been ap-
pointed by Chief Justice Harry L. Carrico of the
Virginia Supreme Court to the Judicial Council of
Virginia.

1955

BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, who resigned in De-
cember 1980 as president of the Commercial Bank in
Metarie, La., has followed his life-long dream to
paint. He has become an accomplished artist and has
had showings in various cities including New Orleans
and his first of several exhibitions was at the annual
Virginia Regional Show sponsored by Washington.
and Lee. In June, Redmond had an exhibition of his
paintings and drawings at the Collier-Boone House in
Tuscaloosa, Ala.

1956

OLIVER T. COOK, a practicing attorney in Peabody,
Mass., is also actively involved in playing golf and in
the administration of the game of golf. An executive
committeeman of the Massachusetts Golf Association
for the past five years, he is presently serving as
chairman of the championship committee which con-
ducts a number of state championships including the
Massachusetts Open and Massachusetts State
Amateur. He recently completed two years as presi-
dent of Salem Country Club and was selected to be
general chairman of the United States Golf Associa-
tion Women’s Open which is to be held at Salem
Country Club in 1984. He had previously served as
general chairman of the 1977 Senior Amateur Cham-
pionship which was also held at Salem Country Club.

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II (See 1953.)

WILEY R. WRIGHT JR. (See 1954.)

1957

THOMAS C. BROYLES, an attorney in Virginia Beach,
has been elected to the Virginia Wesleyan College
board of trustees.

JAN C. KOONTz has been appointed district manager
for Wang Laboratories Inc., in their new sales district
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. The new area
encompasses Kentucky, central and southern Indiana,
southern and central Ohio, with branch offices in
Columbus and Dayton, Ohio, Louisville, and Lex-
ington, Ky., and Indianapolis, Ind., as well as Cin-

21

 

cinnati. Koontz’ duties will include planning and
support for the growth of corporate business in these
areas. Before joining Wang, Koontz was associated
with International Business Machines. He held a
variety of management positions in marketing in New
York City, Raleigh, N.C., and as a branch manager
in Cincinnati. He is active in community affairs,
currently serving as chairman of the board of directors
for Junior Achievement in greater Cincinnati. Wang
is a supplier of computer-based office automation
systems comprising data processing, word process-
ing, electronic mail, and voice store and forward
capabilities.

DONALD S. LurRIA lives on aranch in Tucson, Ariz.,
where he owns a small cooking school and has opened
a gourmet take-out business.

1958

JAMES J. CRAWFORD Jr., beginning in October 1981,
became general manager exploration, international
for the Ladd Petroleum Corp. located in Denver,
Colo.

PHILLIPPE C. LABRO’S book entitled Des bateaux
dans la nuit has been published in Paris by Gallimard.
During the week of April 4, it was third on the French
best-seller list.

HUGH B. SprROUL of Staunton, Va., is owner and
operator of Air Land Real Estate. He was president of
Staunton-Augusta Board of Realtors in 1980 and was
recently elected to the Staunton City Council. He and
his wife, Ann, have two children.

FREDERICK H. Tarr III, an insurance executive in
Rockport, Maine, and a member of the board of
selectman, has just been chosen as chairman of that
board.

Dr. NELSON S. TEAGUE; a physician in Roanoke,
Va., has been named president of the Virginia Uro-
logical Society.

S. ScoTT WHIPPLE has written a video script which
will be shot on location this summer in Massachusetts.
The script, a dramatization of a supervisory problem-
solving situation, is being produced by Xerox Learn-
ing Systems. Whipple’s other productions include
video presentations for such clients as the Bank of
New York, Colgate-Palmolive Co., and Xerox Corp.

1959

RICHARD A. POWELL, formerly in Bermuda, has
accepted a transfer with the Department of Defense
Overseas Dependent Schools to Northern Japan. Since
1964 he has enjoyed assignments in Germany and
England. He and his wife, Carol, have a son, David.

CHARLES E. Toomy III completed dental school at
the University of Maryland in 1964 and his ortho-
dontic residency at Columbia University in 1970. He
and his wife, the former Joyce Cooper, have four
children and the family lives in Annapolis, Md.

a2

William J. (Bill) Russell Jr., ’57,
makes a save in the Alumni-Varsity
Soccer Game held during Reunion
Weekend last May. The varsity won
4-1. Bill was on campus for his 25th
class reunion.

Toomy is active in St. Anne’s church having served
two terms on the vestry. In 1980-81 he served as
president of the Maryland State Orthodontic Society.

1960

On June 4, 1982, CoL. WILLIAM T. WILLIAMS IV
became commander of the Air Force’s TUSLOG
Detachment 10 at Incirlik, Turkey. He is responsible
for NATO flight training programs and military pre-
paredness of the only American tactical air operation
between Italy and the Far East. Williams graduated
from the Air Force Academy in 1961 and earned an
M.S. degree in business systems analysis from the
University of Rochester in 1971. He had served as
vice commander at Incirlik since February 1981.

1961

JACK H. BREARD Jr. of Dallas has recently been
promoted to director of marketing of EBSCO In-
dustries Inc., a diversified corporation headquartered
in Birmingham, Ala. For the past 16 years Breard has
been vice president and general manager of three of
the corporation’s divisions. In preparation for those
responsibilities of his new position he just completed
a two-week strategic marketing course at Harvard
Business School. He and his family expect to move to
Birmingham shortly.

JAMES B. CONE is owner of Coffee & Tea Ltd. Inc. of
Minneapolis, Minn. His four retail stores specialize
in over 50 varieties of coffee and over 150 kinds of
tea. In addition to the retail stores, he also operates a
large mail order business.

1962

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL JR. is on the Texas State
Health Coordinating Council, and on the executive
boards of the Greater East Texas Health Systems
Agency and the Texas Medical Association Health
Planning Committee. He is in family practice in
Nacogdoches, Texas.

Dr. JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN, a professor at the Univer-
sity of Texas Southwestern Medical School in Dallas,
was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree at
the May 21 commencement of the Rensselaer Poly-
technic Institute in Troy, N.Y. Goldstein had colla-
borated with another professor named Michael Brown
on medical research at the frontier of genetic research.
He has earned many research prizes and awards. The
team of Brown and Goldstein were cited for their
teamwork and the way in which they ‘‘blend brilliant
minds, innovative techniques and extraordinary
dedication to search areas of medical science where
no others have gone before.’’

1963

WILLIAM H. (BILL) CANDLER, former sales and mar-
keting director for the Donning Co./Publishers (1976-
1978) and the former editor of Metro, the Magazine
of Southeastern Virginia (1978-1981), has become
manager of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Donning
Co./Publishers of Norfolk, known as Donning Pro-

     

J. H. Breard Jr., ’’61
ductions. The new subsidiary is a full-service pro-
duction house specializing in marketing an extensive
line of creative services to area corporations and
businesses, including copywriting, design, typesetting
and printing, transfer lettering, film, audio-visual
presentations, direct mail capabilities and manage-
ment seminars. Candler will have the title of vice
president with the new company during a varied
career, he has gained experience in law, university
administration, newspaper and magazine journalism,
freelance writing and advertising. He is a regular
columnist for the Tidewater Virginian, the business
magazine of Southeastern Virginia.

SAMUEL W. CHANNELL is associate director of the
West Virginia Office of Emergency Medical Services.
He lives in Charleston with his wife, Mary, and son,
Russell.

DavibD GROGAN is vice president and general manager
of Rubbermaid Applied Products Division of
Rubbermaid Inc. He and his wife and two children
live in Statesville, N.C.

RoBERT G. HOLLAND, associate editor of the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch, has been appointed by Gov-
ernor Charles Robb to Virginia’s first Governor’s
Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, a20-member
group that will promote fitness programs in schools,
business, industry, senior citizens groups and gov-
ernment.

1964

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES H. (HOBBY) MORRISON
JR., ason, James Scott, on Nov. 12, 1981. Morrison,
who is with Morrison Productions Inc. of New York
City, is a director and cameraman of television com-
mercials. He recently did an introductory campaign
for Budweiser Light beer featuring one of the famous
Clydesdale horses running through some of the scenic
areas in the United States.

Davip C. BLAck III addressed a forestry seminar
sponsored by the Swedish Trade Office in Stockholm
on June 2, 1982. He is head of Merrill Lynch Realty’s
Timberland Division in Atlanta.

THOMAS (MIKE) BRUMBy IV and family live in Tifton,
Ga. Brumby is growing Christmas trees and is also
teaching tennis to youths and adults. He and his wife
have a daughter who is 3% years old.

President Reagan designated ALFRED E. EcKES JR. as
chairman of the United States International Trade
Commission for a term to expire in June 1984. Eckes
is an economic historian and former executive director
of the House Republican Conference prior to joining
the U.S.I.T.C. in September 1981. He was a Ful-
bright Fellow at Christ’s College, Cambridge, in
1965; earned an M.A. in international relations from
Tufts University in 1966; and, received his doctorate
in American history from the University of Texas at
Austin in 1969. From 1969 to 1978, Eckes was a
history professor and earned tenure at Ohio State
University before beginning a two year assignment as

editorial page editor for the Columbus Dispatch in
1977. He went to Washington in July 1979 as execu-
tive director of the House Republican Conference.
Eckes lives in Alexandria.

Dr. WARREN HOPKINS is a licensed clinical psy-
chologist and currently is director of the Center for
Psychological Services at the University of Rich-
mond. This year he was awarded the ODK ‘‘Professor
of the Year’’ and the ‘‘Outstanding Administrator
Award’’ by the Student Government Association.
Hopkins also received the IFC Faculty Award. His
wife, Jane, is also a doctor and is director of the
Women’s Resource Center in Richmond.

Jay F. Jacor has been promoted to the rank of
Commander, Supply Corps, USNR. He is also project
engineer for integrated logistic support with Northrop
Services Inc. in Orlando, Fla. He lives in Fern Park.

CHARLES (KIM) KIMBELL is a partner in the law firm
of Allen & Kimbell in Santa Barbara, Calif. He and
his wife, Teresa, have three sons.

THOMAS S. Pace Jr. practices psychotherapy in
Seattle.

On June 20, 1981, SAMUEL J. SMITH resigned as
chief administrative appeals judge for the benefits
review board of the U.S. Department of Labor to
become a partner in the San Francisco law firm of
Parrish, Moriarty and Smith.

1965

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. SWEET JR., a
son, Robert Ransom, on Dec. 17, 1981, in Richmond,
Ky. Sweet is an English professor at Eastern Kentucky
University. He has had some short stories published
in Mike Shayne Mystery Magazine under the pseu-
donym Hal Charles.

Dr. BLAINE A. BROWNELL is professor of urban
studies and history, dean and co-director of the gra-
duate school, and director of the Center for Interna-
tional Programs at the University of Alabama, Bir-
mingham. He continues to serve as editor of the
Journal of Urban History. His most recent book, co-
authored with George E. Mowry, is The Urban Nation
1920-1980 (2nd ed.). For the 1981-82 year, Brownell
is serving as chairman of the Alabama Council of
Graduate Deans.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE has returned to the private
practice of law as a partner of the firm of O’Connor,
Cavanagh, Anderson, Westover, Killingsworth &
Beshears in Phoenix, Ariz. He heads up the firm’s
corporate and business section. Previously, Byrne
was senior vice president and general counsel of the
investment group of INA Corporation in Philadelphia.

Dr. MARK G. HAEBERLE has joined his brother in the
private practice of obstetrics and gynecology in Ash-
land, Ky. He and his wife, Noel, have two sons,
Andrew, 6, and Will, 4.

LARRY M. MEEKS is a partner in the Los Angeles law

firm of Lawler, Felix and Hall.

Woopwarp D. OPENO is currently directing an
architectural survey of the historic district of Ports-
mouth, N.H. He continues his interest in running and
this year participated in the Boston Marathon.

1966
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Davip E. FLEISCHER, a
daughter, Mara, on Dec. 8, 1981, in Washington.
Fleischer is an associate professor of medicine at
George Washington University. In April 1982 he
delivered a paper on ‘‘Laser Therapy of Cancer’’ to
the Belgian Digestive Disease Society.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GAVIN ROBERT GARRETT, a
daughter, Julia Bonilee, on Dec. 4, 1981. The young
lady joins an older sister, Oleta, and the family lives
in Fort Worth, Texas.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. SUTER JR., ason,
Frank Krauss, on May 12, 1982. Suter, after receiving
a degree in electrical engineering from M.I.T. in
1967, was awarded his M.D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia in 1975. He currently is on the
faculty of the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

Dr. F. ScoTT KENNEDY JR. was elected assistant
secretary of A. D. Kennedy and Co., an Oklahoma
oil, gas, coal and land firm. He is an associate pro-
fessor of biochemistry at the Louisiana State Univer-
sity Medical School in Shreveport where he lives
with his wife and four children.

Dr. PHILLIP D. MOLLERE has been promoted to the
position of manager of Chemical Process Develop-
ment, Freeport-Minerals Research and Development
in New Orleans, La. In April, Dr. Mollere visited the
chemistry department at Washington and Lee where
he presented a series of lectures. ;

WILLIAM H. CANDLER (See 1963.)

1967

CHRISTOPHER F. ARMSTRONG is a professor of
sociology at Bloomsburg State College in Catawissa,
Pa. He and his wife, Merry, and daughter Rebecca,
spent July 1981 in Salzburg, Austria, where he taught
a course on the history and architecture of Salzburg to
students in the Pennsylvania Consortium for Interna-
tional Education. Armstrong also coaches the lacrosse
team at Bloomsburg.

Mas. WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM has been transferred
from Germany to the judge advocates office at Ft.
Benning, Ga.

BENJAMIN D. GAMBILL JR., president of Braid Elec-
tric in Nashville, Tenn., has been elected to the board
of trustees of Montgomery Bell Academy. Gambill
attended Montgomery Bell Academy before coming
to Washington and Lee. While at M.B.A., he was
president of both his junior and senior classes and was
captain of the football team. Gambill now serves on

the boards of the Nashville area Chamber of Com-
merce, St. Thomas Hospital, Nashville City Bank
and Trust Co. and the Salvation Army.

MARK S. PISARRA is a marketing administrator with
IBM’s National Marketing Division in Tulsa. He
earned an M.S. degree in student personnel admini-
stration from Oklahoma State University. Pisarra and
his wife, Susan, live in Tulsa with their children,
Charles, 5, and Paige, 2.

ANDREW M. RaRING was promoted April 1981 to
district manager of Placid Oil Co.’s San Antonio
office. He and his wife, Sue Ann, have three sons and
the family lives in New Braunfels, Texas.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOSEPH A. MATTHEWS JR., a
daughter, Bradley Elizabeth, on Sept. 10, 1981.
Matthews is a practicing attorney in Roanoke, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. JEFFREY THISTLE, a son,
Joseph Henry, on April 18, 1982. Thistle has opened
his own law practice in Delray Beach, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WENDALL L. WINN Jr., a
daughter, Ashley, on July 22, 1981, in Charlottes-
ville, Va. Winn is in private law practice there with
the firm of Richmond and Fishburne.

CHARLES M. BERGER is an assoctate counsel for
NCNB Corp. in Charlotte, N.C. He is responsible for
SEC and corporate work for the bank holding com-
pany. Berger’s son, Jamie, is now a freshman at
W&L.

PHILIP G. COTTELL JR. earned his doctor of business
administration degree from the University of Ken-
tucky. He is now an assistant professor of accounting
at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.

NELSON H. HEAD, president of Hill Realty, a long-
time family business in Birmingham, Ala., has formed
a partnership with architect Pedro Costa, for the pur-
pose of a major development project involving three
downtown blocks of Birmingham’s business district.
‘‘The concept is to change the area’s appearance
immediately and drastically,’’ said Head. The plan
calls for a mass infusion of roof top gardens, plaza
type landscaping, condominiums and numerous small
specialty shops. The first phase of the project calls for
renovation of the major buildings on the three blocks
and is estimated to cost approximately $25 million.
The partnership includes classmates S. Gates Shaw
of Shaw Warehouse Co. and Tom Howard, a Wash-
ington, D.C., attorney.

Dr. JAMES W. LARGE has moved to Vero Beach,
Fla., to join the Doctors Clinic, a 23-member multi-
specialty group.

On Jan. 3, 1982, BARRY J. LEVIN joined the Philadel-
phia law firm of Braemer and Kessler as a partner. He
specializes in estate planning and estate and trust
administration.

pis,

Class Notes

J.L. Slattery, ’68

JAMES L. SLATTERY has been named assistant general
counsel of Lukens Inc. and general counsel of the
Lukens Steel Co. Division. Slattery joined Lukens
Steel as counsel in the law department in 1974 and
was promoted to general attorney in 1977. He was
named to management council in 1978. Prior to going
to Lukens, he was associate general counsel for Itek
Corp. in Lexington, Mass. An officer in the United
States Naval Reserve Slattery is also a member of the
Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Chester County and
American Bar Associations.

CHARLES B. TomM earned his LL.M. degree in Taxa-
tion from New York University in June 1981. In
addition to serving as vice president and general
counsel for Arkansas Best Corp. of Ft. Smith, Ark.,
he is also an adjunct professor of law at the University
of Arkansas.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mayo M. (GILL) FirzHUGH
Ill, a son, Mayo McGill IV, on June 18, 1981.
Fitzhugh is an auditor with the U.S. General Ac-
counting Office (GAO) in Washington, D.C. He also
is active as a college basketball referee.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. GLEN P. MatTTOox, a daughter,
Josephine Brooke, on Jan. 20, 1982, in Atco, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davi L. Ross, a daughter,
Alice Cathryn, on Dec. 22, 1981, in Richmond, Va.
Ross is counsel to the Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity’s Medical College of Virginia.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Marc A. SCHEWEL, a son,
Matthew Adam, on Jan. 30, 1982, in Lynchburg, Va.
He has an older brother, David, 6, and sister, Sara, 3.
Schewel is secretary of the Schewel Furniture Co.
Inc. He completed the Shamrock Marathon at Virginia
Beach in March 1982 with a time of three hours 13
minutes. He took up running four years ago and ran
about 2,000 miles in 1981.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GILBERT C. TURNER JR., a
daughter, Dawn Renee, on Dec. 17, 1981. Turner is
project manager for Bessemer Properties Inc. in
Stuart, Fla.

Dr. R. GILLIs CAMPBELL is coordinator for analytical
services of Ciba Geigy Corp.’s plastics and additives
division in Mobile, Ala.

W. LAWRENCE GILMER has moved to Richmond as
manager of compensation and benefits for Blue Cross/
Blue Shield of Virginia.

On April 1, 1982 Ray V. HARTWELL III became a
partner in the law firm of Hunton and Williams. He
specializes in antitrust litigation and counseling in the
firm’s Richmond office. Hartwell and his wife,
Kathy, live in Richmond with their three sons, ages
5, 4, and 2.

24

   

J. Grey HESSON has been elected president of the
Colonial Heights, Va., Bar Association. He has his
own law practice there and also serves as assistant
public defender for Petersburg. Hesson and his wife,
Lynne, have three children, Lauren, 10, Brandon, 6,
and Diana, 1.

DANIEL R. LYNN is assistant county administrator for
James City County, Virginia. He is responsible for
development planning, public works and community
development.

H. DANIEL ROGERS JR. has joined Ryan-Biggs Engi-
neering in Troy, N.Y., as senior engineer for design
and production of bridge projects. He had held various
structural engineering positions for the past 11 years
with the New York State Department of Transporta-
tion. With a master’s degree in civil engineering from
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, he also serves as an

adjunct assistant professor in the evening division of

Union College. Rogers is president of the Mohawk-
Hudson section of the American Society of Civil
Engineers and is treasurer of the New York State
Council of that organization. He lives in Latham,
N.Y.

WILLIAM H. WEBBER JR. is a vice president of Mit-
chell Hutchins, an investment advisory firm in New
York. He has been with the firm for nine years.
Webber and his wife, Mary Ann, live in Pelham,
N.Y., with two children, Brian, 12, and Courtney, 9.

1970

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. LAwson CANNON, a son,
Chesley Chalmers, in Honolulu, Hawaii, on Jan. 12,
1982. After receiving his Doctor of Chiropractic
degree from Western States Chiropractic College in
Portland, Ore., Cannon and his wife, the former
Cathryn Jennings, moved to Honolulu where Cannon
opened the Rainbow’s End Health Center.

BIRTH: THE Rev. and Mrs. RICHARD CAPRON
adopted a daughter, Joanna Marie, who was born
April 12, 1982. The family lives in Succasunna, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. ALVIN CHILDs JR., ason,
William James, on Dec. 4, 1981. Childs is involved
in real estate development in the Shreveport, La.,
area and recently took part in the renovation of
downtown buildings for office use.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Foster GAILLARD, a
daughter, Mary Leize Simons, on Dec. 3, 1981.
Gaillard is a partner in the Charleston, S.C., law firm
of Bibbs Gaillard & Roswell. He is also a member of
the Charleston city council,

Dr. ROBERT L. ENTZMINGER was promoted to
associate professor of English on Sept. 1, 1982, at
Virginia Tech. On July 1, he was appointed assistant
director of the Virginia Tech Center for Programs in
the-Humanities.

GEORGE HAMLIN has recently been involved in a
market development tour to assess airline interest ina

new Lockheed-Georgia aircraft, Hercules. He was
one of two members of the team making presentations
to each airline. In addition to the U.S. carriers, the
team visited five European airlines as well as three in
the Far East.

Radio Adios, a film by HENRY L. HILLS JR. premiered
on May 1, 1982, in New York. On May 10, Hills
delivered a lecture on ‘‘Sound Film’’ to the Collective
for Living Cinema in conjunction with the premiere.

BRUCE R. MACQUEEN has moved from Seoul, Korea,
to Sydney, Australia, where he is vice president and
representative in charge of the Sydney office for
Manufacturers Hanover Trust. He oversees the bank’s
business in Australia, New Zealand, Papua, New
Guinea and the South Pacific.

STEVEN P. MASLANSKY recently started his own firm,
Geo-Environmental Consultants Inc. which special-
izes in hazardous materials management and ground-
water resources. He has also completed his master’s
degree in civil engineering. Maslansky, a major in
the Army Reserves, is assigned to the Chief of Engi-
neers in Washington, D.C. He and his family lives in
Port Chester, N.Y.

MICHAEL T. McVay lives in Huntington, W.Va.,
where he is associated with The Bunch Co. Realtors
as a Sales associate.

Dr. ROBERT T. SCHOOLEY is a member of the infec-
tious disease unit at Massachusetts General Hospital
in Boston. He divides his time between interferon
research, teaching and patient care. Schooley, his
wife, Pam, and two daughters live in Hingham, Mass.

JOHN E. WETSEL Jr. is a partner in the Winchester,
Va., law firm of Kuykendall, Wetsel and Kuyken-
dall.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND D. CoartEs JR., a
daughter, Lindsey Crozier, on Nov. 20, 1981, in
Berlin, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN G. CROMMELIN, identi-
cal twin daughters, Mary Vasser and Lillian Eliza-
beth, on May 21, 1981. The family lives in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SIDNEY H. KELSEY Jr., a
daughter, Anne Calvert, on Aug. 12, 1981, in Virginia
Beach. Kelsey is a partner in the Norfolk law firm of
Moss, Sizemore, Kelsey and Callahan.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. FRANcis McQ. LAWRENCE, a
daughter, Meredith Catlin, on May 3, 1982, in Char-
lottesville. She has a 4-year old sister, Jenna. Law-
rence is a partner in the law firm of St. John, Bowling,
Payne and Lawrence.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. GREGORY TINAGLIA, ason,
John William, on June 3, 1982, in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW J. WHITE Jr., a

second daughter, Katherine Layton, on March 4,
1982. White is a practicing attorney in Greenville,
a.

HENRY J. BLACKFORD III is vice president of the
Citizens & Southern National Bank in Charleston,
S.C. He has just graduated from the Stonier Graduate
School of Banking at Rutgers University. The Black-
fords have a 2-year old daughter.

CHARLES G. HOusTON III is with Carter and Associ-
ates, the largest real estate development and brokerage
firm in Atlanta. He oversees the development of
office buildings in the area market for his firm and
corporate clients.

EDWARD F. JuDT spent two months of intensive study
of German at the Goethe Institute in Vienna during
the summer.

HENRY (SKIP) NOTTBERG is vice president of U.S.
Engineering Co. in Kansas City, Mo. He was recently
elected to the board of directors of Dodson Insurance
Co. and to the board of trustees of the Research
Medical Center.

JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS Jr., effective April 1, 1982,
became a partner in the Washington, D.C., office of
the law firm of Sidley and Austin. The firm, based in
Chicago, has offices in Washington, D.C., Los An-
geles, London, Cairo, and in Oman and the United
Arab Emirates.

1972
MARRIAGE: JOHN B. WooDLIEF and M. Cynthia
McGrady on June 27, 1981, in Columbia, S.C.
Woodlief is with the Columbia office of Price Water-
house.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN B. BLALOCK JR., a son,
John Butler IV, on June 15, 1981, in Birmingham.
Blalock is a general surgeon in practice there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LEx O. MCMILLAN III, a
daughter, Flannery Elizabeth, on Dec. 29, 1981, in
Richmond. They live in Ashland, Va., along with her
3-year old brother, Justin. McMillan is director of
public relations at Randolph Macon College.

JAMES W. M. CARSON was recently made manager of
Corporate and U.S. Treasury Service for the Coca-
Cola Co. He lives in Atlanta, Ga.

ROBERT H. LOCKHART is a shift supervisor at Wood-
chips Export Corp., a division of Peebles Industries
Inc. in Savannah. He continues his photographic
work as well.

MILLARD S. YOUNTS works in Richmond for Chap-
man Associates, nationwide business brokers, as a
specialist in sales of media properties, radio and
television stations, newspapers and cable television
systems.

bo hs

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM B. FOWLER and Eleanor M.

   

iWon. 73

Merrill on May 8, 1982, in Jacksonville, Fla. They
live in Atlanta where Fowler is with Smith Barney,
Harris Upham and Co. Inc.

BIRTH: JupGE and Mrs. WILLIAM E. Woop, a son,
William McKinnie, on Jan. 25, 1982, in Wilmington,
N.C. They live in Whiteville, N.C., where Wood is a
state district court judge.

RICHARD C. CRITTENDEN Spent the summer studying
infectious diseases at the University of Edinburgh in
Scotland. He is a senior at the University of Alabama
College of Medicine in Birmingham.

WILLIAM D. EmMa is a Supervisor for Central Hard-
ware stores in St. Louis. He and his wife, Carolyn,
live in Arnold, Mo., with their three children, ages 2,
5, and 7.

LAWRENCE E. EVANS Jr. has been elected a partner
in the Houston law firm of Gunn Lee and Jackson.

JOHN W. FOoLsom has been elected executive vice
president and chief operating officer of South Carolina
Federal in Columbia, S.C. His areas of responsibility
are mortgage banking, finance, operations, and sub-
sidiary companies. He joined South Carolina Federal
in 1974. Folsom is presently involved as director for
the Greater Chamber of Commerce, director of the
Columbia Rotary Club, president and director of the
Richland County Heart Association, board of visitors
of Columbia College and a member of the Governor’s
Task Force on Aging. In addition, he was honored as
one of the Outstanding Young Men in America by the
United States Jaycees.

W. LEE HARRISS is vice president of Planters National
Bank in Rocky Mount, N.C.

ROBERT W. SHERWOOD was promoted to vice presi-

dent and manager of the Martinsville, Va., office of —

Virginia National Bank in March 1982. In April he
ran in his third-consecutive Boston Marathon.

Dr. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN is completing his train-
ing in dermatology at Case Western Reserve Univer-
sity Hospitals in Cleveland.

W. GARETH TUCKER is practicing law in Deep River,
Conn.

In February 1982, FREDERICK W. Woopwarp III
was named an assistant vice president of Marsh and
McLennan Inc. in New York. He has been in the
firm’s aviation aerospace group for four years.

: 1974
MARRIAGE: STUART RAGLAND III and Lisa Renee
Flexer of Huntingdon, Pa., on April 24, 1982. Among
those in attendance were classmates James M. Mar-
tinez Jr. , Patrick J. McCarty, and Eric D. White, ’75.
The couple resides in Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. DOLL, a daughter,
Virginia Mandlehr, on Jan. 26, 1982, in Louisville,
Ky. Doll is assistant treasurer for the Creasey Co.,

wholesale grocers with headquarters in Louisville.
The company supplies over 1,500 independent
supermarkets in an eight state area.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. STIEFF, a daughter,
Emily Von Maries, on May 3, 1982. The family lives
in Baltimore where Stieff is associated with Kirk-
Stieff Co.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. EDwin O. WILEY, a daughter,
Julia Rose, on May 25, 1982, in Hewitt, N.J.

COURTNEY CLARK BROOKS JR., was awarded an
M.D. degree from the Medical College of Georgia in
Augusta, on June 5, 1982. He began a residency at
Georgia Baptist Hospital in Atlanta in July.

JEFFREY D. BURKE has been promoted to audit man-
ager with Price Waterhouse Co. in Richmond, Va.

WILLIAM D. ELLIOT left his law partnership on July
1, 1982, after eight years of private practice to become
vice president for sales and development and counsel
for the Davis H. Elliot Co. Inc., an electrical con-
tracting firm in Roanoke.

T. CALDER EZZELL Jr. has become a partner in the
Roswell, N.M., office for the law firm of Hinkle,
Cox, Eaton, Coffield and Hensley. His practice con-
centrates on oil and gas law.

MICHAEL GUROIAN is Owner-manager of two self-
service laundromats and one apartment house laundry
room. He lives in Stamford, Conn., and has been
elected to a three-year term on the Stamford Board of
Education.

ROBERT W. KONWINSKI is district sales manager for
the Kendall Motor Oil Division of Witco Chemical
Corp. He lives in Liverpool, N.Y., with his wife,
Sharon, and daughter, Michele.

Larry N. NAu has been promoted to vice president
by Bank of Virginia in Richmond. He is responsible
for product development in the marketing division.

DRAYTON N. SMITH is a professional artist and
illustrator with a studio in Baltimore, Md.

MICHAEL E. YOUNG is layout-copy editor with the
Miami Herald. He was formerly regional editor with
Atlantic City Press. He and his wife, Dianne, live in
Plantation, Fla.

1975

MARRIAGE: ROBERT S. BONNEY Jr. and Maureen
P. Hinchcliffe on Jan. 23, 1982. They live in Me-
tuchen, N.J. Bonney is associated with the law firm
of Evans, Koelzer, Marriott, Osborne and Kreizman
with offices in Red Bank, N.J., and New York. He
had served four years with the U.S. Attorney’s office
in New Jersey.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH C. MILLER III and Suzanne
E. McNeese on June 12, 1982, in Lexington, Va.
William E. Thompson IV was in the wedding while

eS

Class Notes

guests included Mark Derbyshire, ’78, Richard
Romenelli, ’73, Jack Wheeler, 53, Rob Mish, ’76,
and Bob Ferguson, ’84. The bride is the daughter of
W&L’s associate director of development, Carter
McNeese. They live in Baltimore where Miller
teaches at the Gilman School.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM E. ALLAUN III, a
son, William Edwin IV, on Feb. 13, 1982, in Newport
News, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. HAMILTON JR., a
son, William Bruce III, on Dec. 3, 1981, in Hanover,
N.H. Hamilton heads the trust department of Dart-
mouth National Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS HERBERT HUNT, a
second son, Casey Herbert, on Dec. 18, 1981. The
family lives in Dallas where Hunt is employed by the
Hunt Energy Corp.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. LANDER II, a
daughter, Candice Kay, on June 20, 1981. Lander is
a partner in the law firm of Schneider, Levy, Stieh &
Lander in Milford, Pa.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN S. ORTON, a daughter,
Elizabeth Fleming, on May 8, 1982, in Houston.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOHN R. PICCIOTTI, a daugh-
ter, Jacqueline Ann, on Sept. 4, 1981, in Wilmington,
Del.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. MARK B. PINSON, a daughter,
Sarah Elizabeth, on June 13, 1982, in Marston Mills,
Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. KENNEDY SIMPSON, a
daughter, Ann Tierney, on Nov. 24, 1981, in Louis-
ville, Ky. After clerking for Judge Thomas A. Bal-
lantine of the U.S. District Court for Western Ken-
tucky, Simpson joined the Louisville law firm of
Stites, McElwain and Fowler.

SAMUEL M. BELL is a financial associate with General
Foods Corp. in White Plains, N.Y. He earned his
M.B.A. at Columbia University in 1981. Bell lives in
New York.

RICHARD R. COUNCILL is marine manager for the
Roanoke International Insurance Agency of Balti-
more.

DaAvID F. Howarb joined the commercial real estate
firm of Ackerman and Co. in Atlanta during February
1982. The firm has interest in the American and
European markets.

LT. KARL KLINGER is stationed at the Naval Air
Station Oceana at Virginia Beach as an aircraft wea-
pons delivery instructor and bombardier/navigator.
He expects his next assignment to be as the Carrier
Air Traffic Control Center officer aboard the aircraft
carrier USS NIMITZ.

OLIVER H. Timmins III is a partner in the newly
formed Houston law firm of Timmins and Magids.

26

Ray V. HARTWELL (See 1969.)
J. GREY HESSON (See 1969.)
FRANCIS McQ. LAWRENCE (See 1971.)

CHARLES B. Tom (See 1968.)

1976
MARRIAGE: Dr. Carey D. CHISHOLM and Robin
Lynn Bolstad of Huntington Beach, Calif., on June
19, 1982, in Lee Chapel. Peter Adler, ’76, Keith
Crocker, ’76, Gary Adams, ’77, Rogers Fred, ’77,
Todd Chisholm, ’81, and Frank Merkel, ’78, attended
the wedding. The couple lives in Tacoma, Wash.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. DONALD Bryant III, a
son, Gerald Don Nelson IV, on Nov. 30, 1981.
Bryant is a CPA in Tallahassee, Fla.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JAMES A. MERCY, a daughter,
Nikki Rogers, on June 28, 1982, in Decatur, Ga.
Mercy earned his doctorate in sociology from Emory
University in August 1982. He is employed by the
Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Cary E. PATRICK JR., a son,
Cary Eldridge III, on Oct. 10, 1981, in Hampton, Va.

Patrick is a partner in the retail hardware firm of

W. T. Patrick and Sons. He completed his second
marathon in the spring finishing at Cleveland in two
hours 56 minutes.

R. STEWART BARROLL is an associate with the law
firm of Clarke and Associates in Salisbury, Md. He
earned his law degree at Wake Forest University in
1979.

DANIEL E. DRENNEN is a tax attorney with the firm of
Lyons, Pipes and Cook in Mobile, Ala. He and his
wife, Mollie, have two children, Glen, 4, and Katha-
rine, 2.

EVANGALOS P. GEEKER received the master of law
and taxation degree from the Marshall-Wythe School
of Law at the College of William and Mary in May
1982. He is an associate with the law firm of Ausley,
McMullen, McGehee, Carothers and Proctor in
Tallahassee, Fla.

Capt. MALCOLM R. HASTINGs has written a book for
the military that formulates doctrine for the world-
wide employment of Pershing II and cruise missile
systems. He is now in command of a battery at Ft.
Sill, Okla.

ANDREW Murray HeEMmM, after four years of teaching
English and studying Chinese in Taiwan and two
subsequent years pursuing an M.B.A. degree at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, is now a loan
officer trainee in their Asian division of Security
Pacific National Bank in Los Angeles, Calif.

On Aug. 1, 1982, RICHARD A. HOOKER became a
partner in the law firm of Schmidt, Howlett, Van’t
Hof, Snell and Vana in Grand Rapids, Mich. His
specialty is labor relations law.

DAVIS JACKSON is a partner in a newly formed CPA
firm, Matthews & Jackson. He and his wife, Sheila,
live in New Braunfels, Texas.

MarK MAvrRaIs has been promoted to sales manager
of Tortuga Beach Club, a resort on Sanibel Island,
Fla.

ROBIN M. MorGAN is an associate in the Richmond
law firm of Bowlman T. Bowles Jr.

On Sept. 21, 1980, ROBERT F. SEARLES was promoted
to captain in the U.S. Army Chemical Corps. He is
commander of the 278th Chemical Detachment, Ist
Armored Division in Ansbach, West Germany.

WILLARD C. (BILL) THOMPSON III has completed his
internship in internal medicine at the Roanoke
Memorial Hospital. He and his wife, Laura, live in
Roanoke.

PAUL L. VAVALA earned his M.B.A. from the Colgate
Darden Graduate School of Business at the University
of Virginia on May 23, 1982. He is a financial analyst
for R. J. Reynolds Industries in Winston-Salem,
NLC:

HARRY W. WELLFORD JR. is a clerk for Chief Judge
H. Kenneth Wangelin of the U.S. District Court
Eastern District in St. Louis. He graduated from law
school with honors at the University of Tennessee in
1981.

1977
MARRIAGE: CaPtT. WILLIAM J. CoPLe III and Beth-
anne Katherine Kinsella on May 29, 1982, in Smith-
town, N.Y. They live in Alexandria, Va. Cople is
stationed at the Pentagon as a U.S. Army JAG Corps
attorney in the Secretary of Defense’s Office of the
General Counsel.

MARRIAGE: Makk A. KRIEGER III] and Ruth Patricia
Dunne on June 6, 1981, in Livingston, N.J. Daniel
W. Aston, ’77, was in the wedding. They live in
Timonium, Md., where Krieger is plant manager of
John D. Lucas Printing Co. Inc.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. H. CoBB ALEXANDER JR., a
son, Austin, in September 1981. Alexander began a
residency in orthopedics on July 1 in Greenville,
S.C., while his wife, Eloise, began a pediatric resi-
dency at the same time.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WAYNE G. EDWARDS, a
daughter, Dana Rachel, on May 29, 1982, in Union-
dale, N.Y.

MICHAEL D. ARMSTRONG will complete his M.B.A.
at the College of William and Mary in December
1982. He serves also as president of the graduate
business school student body.

JAMES R. Brooks, formerly with Marsh and Mc-
Lennan Inc., has joined the firm of Johnson and
Higgins in New Orleans. He is working with the oil
and gas department of the National Energy Group.

DaviD C. (RADAR) DAvis received his law degree
from St. Louis University School of Law in May.

DouGLass W. DEWING, after graduating from
Washington University School of Law, has passed
the Virginia Bar effective May 1982.

JOHN R. DOWNEY earned an M.B.A. degree from the
University of Richmond.

Dr. JOEL C. EVERETT is a resident in pediatrics at the
Medical College of Virginia Hospitals.

JAMES N. FALK moved to Houston in January 1982 to
join the professional management training program at
First City National Bank.

DaviD B. JOHNSTON lives in Grosse Pointe, Mich.,
and works for Ford Motor Co. in the car pricing
division.

LEON F. JOYNER JR. is an actuarial assistant with
Martin E. Segal Co. He is also director of youth
ministries at the First Church of the Nazarene in
Marietta, Ga.

Dr. NEIL LUTINS is at the University of North Caro-
lina in the department of periodontics on a Morehead
Fellowship. He expects to enter the practice of perio-
dontics in June 1983.

FRED REUNING, after a year in Germany with Bayer
AG, is now marketing manager with Chase-Walton
Elastomers. He lives in Hudson, Mass.

JOHN D. ROSEN is a brand manager for the Adolph
Coors Co. in Golden, Colo.

Dr. W. KIRKLAND RUFFIN is completing a general
surgery internship at Massachusetts General Hospital
in Boston.

ANGELO B. SANTELLA Is attending the Infantry Of-
ficer Advance Course at Ft. Benning, Ga.

Dr. JAMES U. Scott has completed his first year of a
pediatric residency at the Rainbow Babies and Chil-
drens Hospital in Cleveland.

ISAAC (TRIP) WORNOM III has completed his first year
of surgical residency at the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.

T. CALDER EZZELL Jr. (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: WALTER P. BENDA and Yoko Mizuno
on Jan. 24, 1982, in Hawaii. They live in Tokyo
where Benda is manager of market planning for the
Orient region of Northwest Airlines. Mrs. Benda was
an exchange student at Washington and Lee from
Rikkyo University in 1978-1979.

MARRIAGE: GeorcE M. (SCOOTER) SMITH and Clare
Leslie Ward on March 14, 1981, in Houston, Texas.
Classmates attending the wedding were Tom Tift,

Jay Shaffer, Rob Sult, Doug Johnston, Greer Bar-
riault, John Gorden and David Franklin. Also attend-
ing were August Lander, ’74, Bill Harmon, ’74,
Thad Grundy, ’75, Mike Jarboe, ’75, Scott Stephen-
son, 76, Bill Clemons, ’77, Clark Thompson, ’77,
George Ballantyne, ’79, Ben Butts, ’80, Bill Pritch-
ard, ’80, Kelly Ryan, ’80, Mitch Wynne, ’80, Phillip
Mangum, ’80, David McCubbin, ’80, and Jim Hin-
son, 81.

FRANK F. Barr is director of labor relations for Dow
Jones and Co. Inc. He lives in Hamilton Square, N.J.

MarRK E. BENNETT graduated from the John Mar-
shall Law School of Chicago in January 1982 and
passed the Illinois Bar. He is interviewing in Chicago
and planning to take the New Jersey Bar also.

DaviD G. CARPENTER was made a division manager
in March 1982 and transferred to the Atlanta head-
quarters of Lucas Associates Inc. He supervises a
team of recruiters who specialize in sales and market-
ing placement.

MICHAEL T. CLEARY is a surgical products repre-
sentative for Proctor and Gamble in the Los Angeles
area. He lives in Anaheim.

RODNEY M. Cook Jr. has formed a corporation,
Georgia Historic Properties Inc., in Atlanta. He also
designs houses and often engages Professor I. Hsiung
Ju of Washington and Lee to do murals on the walls of
these houses.

REYNOLDS Dops has moved to Dallas where he works
for Arthur Andersen and Co. Still active in soccer, he
played on the Division II championship team of the
Dallas adult league.

Dr. DOUGLAS R. DORSEY is a resident in internal
medicine at the University of Kentucky. He and his
wife, Susan, live in Lexington.

GEORGE W. FAISON Jr. is general manager of Pates
& Quiches Inc., a manufacturer and distributor of
French style patés. He lives in New York City.

JOHN H. FOLLANSBEE III was admitted to the Penn-
sylvania Bar on May 26, 1982. He is with the Equi-
mark Corp. in Pittsburgh.

DAvID G. FRANKLIN has joined Texas Capital Corp.
as investment manager. The Houston investment
company provides venture capital to high growth
technology, energy and manufacturing companies.

JULIAN H. Goop Jr. is a registered life insurance
agent and provides other financial services for Crea-
tive Financial Services Inc. in New Orleans. His firm
serves also as the general agency for Mutual Benefit
Life in the Gulf South region.

WALTER GRANRUTH III was an associate in corporate
finance at Shearson/American Express for the sum-
mer between terms at the Colgate Darden Graduate
School of Business at the University of Virginia.

     

G. R. Triplett, ’78

G. CARTER GREER, after a summer of employment,
has returned to law school at the University of Rich-
mond.

GEORGE F. GriFFIN IV is selling commercial real
estate in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C.,
for Maloney Associates Inc. of Bethesda, Md.

THOMAS D. HELDMAN joined the tax department of
Price Waterhouse in Cincinnati after three years with
Ernst and Whinney’s audit staff there.

Capt. H. ALLEN IRISH is the brigade staff judge
advocate for the Ist Brigade of the 1st/Armored Divi-
sion in Illesheim, West Germany. He had been the
senior defense counsel for the U.S. Army at Ansbach,
West Germany. Irish and his wife, Nancy, live in
Katterbach.

CralG B. KENDALL is a computer systems consultant
with the Audyxx Corp. He recently passed the CPA
and CDP examinations. Kendall lives in Gaithers-
burg, Md.

JOHN H. KINGSTON is a staff writer for American
Metal Market, a daily trade newspaper for the steel
and metal industries. Kingston and his wife, Nancy,
live in Williston Park, N.Y., and recently completed
the Long Island Marathon together.

MarK E. MENDEL graduated from law school in
1981 and now is a tax and corporate attorney with
Kemp, Smith, Duncan and Hammond in El Paso,
Texas.

MICHAEL J. MISSAL graduated from the Catholic
University School of Law in May 1982. He is now a
clerk for Chief Judge H. Cart Moultrie in Washington.

ROBERT C. PEERY JR. is a CPA with Arthur Young
and Co. in Richmond.

MARK PUTNEY, formerly engaged in the securities
business in Richmond, Va., has recently moved to
Shreveport, La., where he is associated with a newly
formed real estate firm, Vintage Development Co.
The firm will initially put emphasis on the revitaliza-
tion of buildings in Shreveport designated as Down-
town Historic District. One of the partners in the firm
is Alvin Childs Jr., W&L class of ’70. Putney and his
wife, Lila, have a son, Scott.

RICHARD W. STEWART is an assistant vice president
with Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York
City.

In June 1982, GEORGE R. TRIPLETT JR. earned his
doctor of osteopathy degree from the West Virginia
School of Osteopathic Medicine in Lewisburg, W.Va.
He began practice as a family physician with a one-
year rotating internship at Cuyahoga Falls General
Hospital in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.

i Mi

MARRIAGE: Joun C. Bovay and Leslie Ann Barber
ay

ALAN L. BUTTON, after finishing a clerkship with
Judge Donald Russell, U.S. Court of Appeals for
Fourth Circuit in Spartanburg, S.C., will become
associated with the law firm of Nixon, Hargrave,
Devans & Doyle in Rochester, N.Y., effective Oc-
tober 1982.

JOHN S. HASTINGS works on the news desk for the
Charleston Gazette. He and John Sadd, ’81, share an
apartment in Charleston, W.Va.

ALFRED R. HINTZ is attending St. John’s University
Law School.

DaviD H. JOHNSON attends the University of Georgia
School of Law.

MArK LOCKHART is a second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army Medical Service Corps at Ft. Lewis, Wash.

KevIN M. McGuirk is attending the University of
Kentucky School of Law in Lexington, Ky.

M. VicTOR MCLAUGHLIN Jr. is a second-year student
at the University of Alabama School of Medicine in
Birmingham.

THOMAS E. MARTIN has been appointed executive
director of the Providence, R.I., Human Relations
Commission. He also has been admitted to the Rhode

Island State Bar.

JOHN A. PRITCHETT is a geophysicist with Amoco
Production Co. in New Orleans.

CAROLYN R. SAFFOLD-HEYWARD is an associate with
the Atlanta law firm of McCauley, Owen and
Sweeney.

MARK W. SCULLY is studying at the University of
Wurzburg in West Germany as a Fulbright Scholar.

CHARLES J. VAN Horn works in the machine tool
department of Oliver H. Van Horn Co., distributors
of machine tools and industrial supplies in New Or-
leans.

CHARLES H. WARNER is a first-year medical student
at Duke University.

DOUGLAS T. WEBB is production manager for Webb
and Sons Inc. in Dallas.

1982

DANIEL E. SCHOTT is working in New York as an
actor in daytime television and commercials. He has
signed with an agent and has hopes for a broadway
and film career.

 

In Memoriam

 

1912
WILLIAM LEONIDAS WEBSTER, longtime automobile
dealer in Schenectady, N.Y., died May 31, 1982.
After graduating from Washington and Lee, he taught
and coached baseball and football at Bingham Military
School in Asheville, N.C., before going to Schenec-
tady in 1916 when he founded Webster Motor Sales
Co. Inc. Webster operated the company as a Ford
dealership until October 1966 when he sold the fran-
chise. He also established Van Curler Motors in 1946,

later selling the company, and was president of the.

Lowell Operating Corp., a Schenectady-based realty
firm. Webster was awarded a doctorate of laws degree
from Union College in 1959 and was named New
York State Auto Dealer of the Year by the state
Automobile Dealer’s Association in 1961. The same
year, he was designated ‘‘Patron’’ by the city of
Schenectady. Webster was president and chairman of
the board for Van Curler Hotel for many years which
is now used by Schenectady County Community Col-
lege. He also served on the board for Schenectady
Trust Co. and was director emeritus of that bank.
Webster was a member of the board of directors at
Sunnyview Hospital, served as a trustee at Albany
Medical College, St. Clare’s Hospital, Eastern New
York Orthopaedic Hospital-School and was a former
member of the board of directors of the Schenectady
Community Chest. He served in both World War I
and World War II. During World War II he served as
assistant chief of the Air Staff Intelligence as top
secret control officer.

1914

JOHN EDWIN WAYLAND, former Presbyterian mis-
sionary and pastor, died May 31, 1982. In his more
than 60 years as pastor and Bible teacher, Wayland
faithfully served as a missionary on the mainland of
China and in churches in Georgia, Virginia, West
Virginia, and the Carolinas. Wayland died in Char-
lotte, N.C., where he had been a supply minister at
the Chalmers Memorial Associate Reformed Presby-
terian Church. He was widely known as a Bible
teacher and for his work among youth.

LOTS

THE REV. EDWARD LEYBURN JUNKIN, a native of
Rockbridge County and a long-time Presbyterian
minister, died May 18, 1982. Junkin had held
churches in many places including New Rochelle,
N.Y., and Lewisburg, Pa. He was a veteran of World
War I.

[922

ROBERT Murray BEAR, a professor emeritus at Dart-
mouth College and a former professor at Centre Col-
lege, died June 8, 1982, in Danville, Ky. Bear was in
Dartmouth’s psychology department from 1929 until
his retirement in 1966. He taught at Centre from 1925
to, 1929.

1923

FRED THOMAS PEEBLES, who had been in the practice

of law in Florida since 1925, died June 7, 1982. He
saw active duty during World War II with the U.S.
Navy.

LOvE BONHAM ROUSE, prominent attorney in Bristol,
Tenn., died May 8, 1982. Rouse moved to Bristol in
1923 following his graduation from the Washington
and Lee Law School. He was Commonwealth’s At-
torney from 1929 to 1941. Rouse was a long-time
director of the Bank of Virginia and served as the
bank’s attorney since 1930. He was a member of the
Virginia State Bar Association and the Bristol Bar
Association. Rouse was well known for his interest in
show horses, both as a trainer and judge.

1924

EDMUND PENDLETON REVERCOMB, a prominent law-
yer in Covington, Va., died June 1, 1982. Following
his graduation from law school at the University of
Virginia in 1924, he returned to Covington to practice
law in the firm of Revercomb and Revercomb. He
was commissioned a captain in the Judge Advocate
Generals Department and was stationed in the Euro-
pean theatre for three years of active duty during
World War II. He then returned to the law firm in
Covington.

1925

MEREDITH FLETCHER BAUGHER, noted Palm Beach
lawyer and sportsman, died March 31, 1982, in
Houston, Texas, following an extended illness.
Baugher started in the practice of law in Miami, Fla.,
moved to Palm Beach in 1929 to be counsel to the
Palm Beach Co., owned by the Phipps family, and
then practiced in Palm Beach County for over 50
years. At the time of his death, he was senior partner
of Baugher, Mettler and Shelton of Palm Beach, Fla.
He was an active rancher in recent years, owning and
operating cattle ranches in Florida and Virginia. An
active sportsman, Baugher won the Silver Sailfish
Derby in 1941, co-founded the Master’s Sailfish
Tournament, and was a member of the Sailfish Club
of Palm Beach, Fla.

HARVEY BROWN MILLER, a retired executive and
general manager of U.S. Plywood-Champion Paper
Inc., died in Redding, Calif., June 4, 1982. He was a
past member and president of the Western Wooden
Box Association, the Western Wood Products As-
sociation, the National Lumber Manufacturers’ As-
sociation, the Ponderosa Pine Woodwork Associa-
tion, and the Western Forestry and Conservation As-
sociation. Prior to his move to the West Coast, Miller
owned and operated a storage garage in Staunton,
Va., from 1939 to 1940 and was an assistant plant
accountant for American Viscose Corp. in Front
Royal, Va.

HOWARD CLINTON TRAYWICK, formerly an invest-
ment counselor and banker with William E. Pollock
& Co. in Atlanta, Ga., died in October 1981 in
Montgomery, Ala. Prior to his association with Wil-
liam E. Pollock & Co. he was connected with the
Trust Company of Georgia.

29

Class Notes

on May 8, 1982, in Gainesville, Fla. Among the
groomsmen were: J. Michael Watson, ’79, Henry Y.
Hamilton, ’79, Wendell Stockdale, ’80, and Robert
R. Nichols, ’79. The couple will live in the Washing-
ton, D.C., area where Bovay is to be associated with
the law firm of Holland and Knight.

MARRIAGE: CLEMENT DEAN CaRTER III and Geor-
gia Kay Branscom on May 22, 1982, in Fincastle,
Va. Both bride and groom are graduates of the Mar-
shall-Wythe School of Law at the College of William
and Mary. Carter will join a law firm in Clarksburg,
W.Va. Mrs. Carter will join the legal staff of a
corporation.

MARRIAGE: Micuaet C. McComas and Peggy Pine

in February 1982 in Baltimore. The bride’s brother,
Jon Pine, ’79, was best man. Other alumni attending
included George Santos, ’81, Ted Campbell, ’80,
Tom Hodges, ’78, Bob Brewer, ’79, Fritz Fischer,
"79, Frank Turner, ’77, and Bill Turner, ’78. They
live in Baltimore where McComas is an interior design
specialist for Carpet Land Inc.

J. I. VANCE Berry Jr. is an associate with the law
firm of Mahoney, Hadlow and Adanss in Jacksonville,
Fla.

DARRELL G. CAMPBELL is a communications mar-
keting representative in San Antonio for Datapoint
Corp. He specializes in marketing computerized tele-
communications equipment and private branch ex-
changes.

JOHN E. CorFey is an attorney in Alexandria, Va. He
ran in the Boston Marathon in April 1982 and placed
72nd, with a time of 2:24:53.

JOSEPH F. Cox has been made vice president and
general manager of James Cox and Son Inc., a general
contracting firm in Baltimore.

J. O. (Jim) Davis Ill recently graduated from the
University of Florida School of Law and is associated
with Emanuel, Carlton, Fields, Ward, Emanuel,
Cutter and Smith in Tampa, Fla.

CHARLES C. HABLISTON IV, after receiving a degree
in Actuarial Science from Georgia State University,
is currently employed by the Wyatt Company in
Washington, D.C., an_ international attuarial
consulting firm. He resides in Bryantown, Md. He
recently was named an associate of the Society of
Actuaries. The Society of Actuaries is an international
organization of professional actuaries which performs
research in actuarial science and provides continuing
education for its members and maintains high stand-
ards of competence and conduct.

Ist Lt. RICHARD D. HUGHES is an executive officer
with the 82nd Airborne Division at Ft. Bragg, N.C.

C. STEPHEN JONES JR. was promoted to employee
relations manager at the Erwin, N.C., plant of Bur-
lington Industries.

28

JAMES E. MOYLER III is the Virginia representative
for the Delmark Co. , a Swiss producer of pharmaceu-
tical and food products. He lives on a farm near
Courtland, Va.

STANLEY E. PACKER is an associate officer in the
dealer services division of the First National Bank of
Louisville. He also is serving a second term on the
board of directors of the National Remodelers Asso-
ciation, Kentucky and Indiana chapters.

Gary J. PODESTA is a second-year student working
on his M.S. degree in physical therapy at Columbia
University. He will graduate in May 1983.

THOMAS A. PRICE is the in-house counsel at Chatau-
qua Abstract Company in Mayville, N.Y.

ANDREW T. SANDERS JR. is a second-year law student
at Washington and Lee.

ROBERT L. WHITENER III is commander of the ‘‘C’’
Battery of the 3rd Battalion, 79th Field Artillery, a
Lance firing battery deployed in Germany.

RICHARD B. WILEs is a structural engineer for the
design engineering department of Duke Power Co. in
Charlotte, N.C. He earned his master’s degree in
civil engineering from the University of Virginia.

LANDON R. Wyatt III earned an M.B.A. on May
23, 1982, from the Colgate Darden Graduate School
of Business Administration at the University of Vir-
ginia. At the Darden School he received the William
Michael Shermet Award and the Faculty Award for
Academic Excellence. Wyatt is with the Trammell
Crow Co. in Charlotte, N.C.

1980

MARRIAGE: DouGLas H. BARTON and Barbara
Lynne Miller on Jan. 23, 1982, in Arlington, Va.
Classmates Mark Broughton and Scott Van Dyke
were in the wedding while Harry Wright, Will Sher-
man and Frank Williams were guests. They live in
Colorado Springs, Colo., where Barton is an execu-
tive and motor officer with the 124th Signal Battalion
at Ft. Carson.

MARRIAGE: G. Topp Hopces and Lisa Catron on
June 28, 1980. They live in Gainesville, Fla., where
Hodges will graduate from law school at the Univer-
sity of Florida in December 1982. He plans to practice
in Florida.

Guy S. Brossy is currently assistant treasurer and
corporate lending officer at the Chase Manhattan
Bank in New York. Beginning in the summer of 1982
he entered the M.B.A. program at the Colgate Darden
School of Business at the University of Virginia.

Grecory B. Dyer works for the accounting firm of
Frantz and Co. in Washington. Much of his spare
time is spent coaching Catholic Youth Organization
basketball.

Goetz B. EATON has completed his master’s degree
in international business studies at the University of
South Carolina which included a six-month internship
in Frankfurt, West Germany. He joined Polaroid
Corp. in Cambridge, Mass., in July as an analyst in
its finance division.

JOHN D. Fire JR. is conducting a tenant revitalization
program at Crabtree Valley Mall in Raleigh, N.C.

Davip L. GARNER is completing his master’s degree
in theoretical geophysics and plans to start work in
the fall for Chevron Geosciences in Houston.

STEVEN C. HEROLD is working in sales for First
Jersey Securities in Cherry Hill, N.J.

STEPHEN R. KERN is in his final year of law school at
Georgetown University Law Center. He is working
as a research assistant dealing with various changes in
estate planning and investment strategies since
ERTA.

THEODORE B. (BIFF) MARTIN Jr., formerly on the
admissions staff at Washington and Lee, is now pur-
suing an M.B.A. degree at Northwestern University
in Evanston, III.

EDWARD C. Morrison has finished his second year
at the South Carolina Medical School in Charleston.

F. WILL SHERMAN is a staff accountant in the Wil-
liamsburg office of Eggleston Smith and Co., a
regional public accounting firm with offices in New-
port News, Hampton and Smithfield, Va., as well.

Mark R. SmITH, formerly with the Denver law firm
of Moseley, Wells, & Spence, has joined the legal
department of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in their Denver
office.

ROBERT C. SHLLMAN is enrolled full time in the
M.B.A. program at James Madison University and
works part time as an accountant for a local trucking
firm.

Scott A. WILLIAMS is a loan officer with the retail
lending division for the Bank of New Orleans. He
attends Tulane University in the evenings and plays
for the New Orleans Lacrosse Club.

1981
MARRIAGE: RICHARD ROCHE SAYERS and Elizabeth
Yates Grove on June 12, 1982, in Roanoke, Va.
Sayers is associated with the law firm of Manier,
White, Herod, Hallabaugh and Smith in Nashville,
Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. MILLHISER, a
son, Neil McGue, on April 13, 1982. Millhiser is a
practicing attorney in Richmond, Va.

ROBERT L. BROOKE is a second-year law student at
the University of Virginia where he is rooming with
W&L and Virginia Law classmates, Chip Nunley and
Scott Cardozo.

ALAN L. BUTTON, after finishing a clerkship with
Judge Donald Russell, U.S. Court of Appeals for
Fourth Circuit in Spartanburg, S.C., will become
associated with the law firm of Nixon, Hargrave,
Devans & Doyle in Rochester, N.Y., effective Oc-
tober 1982.

JOHN S. HASTINGS works on the news desk for the
Charleston Gazette. He and John Sadd, ’81, share an
apartment in Charleston, W.Va.

ALFRED R. HINTZ is attending St. John’s University
Law School.

DAVID H. JOHNSON attends the University of Georgia
School of Law.

MarkK LOCKHART is a Second lieutenant in the U.S.
Army Medical Service Corps at Ft. Lewis, Wash.

KevIN M. McGuire is attending the University of
Kentucky School of Law in Lexington, Ky.

M. VicTOR MCLAUGHLIN JR. is a second-year student
at the University of Alabama School of Medicine in
Birmingham.

THOMAS E. MARTIN has been appointed executive
director of the Providence, R.I., Human Relations
Commission. He also has been admitted to the Rhode

Island State Bar.

JOHN A. PRITCHETT is a geophysicist with Amoco
Production Co. in New Orleans.

CAROLYN R. SAFFOLD-HEYWARD is an associate with
the Atlanta law firm of McCauley, Owen and
Sweeney.

Mark W. SCULLY is studying at the University of
Wurzburg in West Germany as a Fulbright Scholar.

CHARLES J. VAN Horn works in the machine tool
department of Oliver H. Van Horn Co., distributors
of machine tools and industrial supplies in New Or-
leans.

CHARLES H. WARNER is a first-year medical student
at Duke University.

DouG as T. WEBB is production manager for Webb
and Sons Inc. in Dallas.

1982

DANIEL E. SCHOTT is working in New York as an
actor in daytime television and commercials. He has
signed with an agent and has hopes for a broadway
and film career.

 

In Memoriam

 

1912

WILLIAM LEONIDAS WEBSTER, longtime automobile
dealer in Schenectady, N.Y., died May 31, 1982.
After graduating from Washington and Lee, he taught
and coached baseball and football at Bingham Military
School in Asheville, N.C., before going to Schenec-
tady in 1916 when he founded Webster Motor Sales
Co. Inc. Webster operated the company as a Ford
dealership until October 1966 when he sold the fran-
chise. He also established Van Curler Motors in 1946,

later selling the company, and was president of the.

Lowell Operating Corp., a Schenectady-based realty
firm. Webster was awarded a doctorate of laws degree
from Union College in 1959 and was named New
York State Auto Dealer of the Year by the state
Automobile Dealer’s Association in 1961. The same
year, he was designated ‘‘Patron’’ by the city of
Schenectady. Webster was president and chairman of
the board for Van Curler Hotel for many years which
is now used by Schenectady County Community Col-
lege. He also served on the board for Schenectady
Trust Co. and was director emeritus of that bank.
Webster was a member of the board of directors at
Sunnyview Hospital, served as a trustee at Albany
Medical College, St. Clare’s Hospital, Eastern New
York Orthopaedic Hospital-School and was a former
member of the board of directors of the Schenectady
Community Chest. He served in both World War I
and World War II. During World War II he served as
assistant chief of the Air Staff Intelligence as top
secret control officer.

1914

JOHN EDWIN WAYLAND, former Presbyterian mis-
sionary and pastor, died May 31, 1982. In his more
than 60 years as pastor and Bible teacher, Wayland
faithfully served as a missionary on the mainland of
China and in churches in Georgia, Virginia, West
Virginia, and the Carolinas. Wayland died in Char-
lotte, N.C., where he had been a supply minister at
the Chalmers Memorial Associate Reformed Presby-
terian Church. He was widely known as a Bible
teacher and for his work among youth.

1915

THE REV. EDWARD LEYBURN JUNKIN, a native of
Rockbridge County and a long-time Presbyterian
minister, died May 18, 1982. Junkin had held
churches in many places including New Rochelle,
N.Y., and Lewisburg, Pa. He was a veteran of World
War I.

1922

ROBERT Murray BEAR, a professor emeritus at Dart-
mouth College and a former professor at Centre Col-
lege, died June 8, 1982, in Danville, Ky. Bear was in
Dartmouth’s psychology department from 1929 until
his retirement in 1966. He taught at Centre from 1925
to, 1929.

L923

FRED THOMAS PEEBLES, who had been in the practice

of law in Florida since 1925, died June 7, 1982. He
saw active duty during World War II with the U.S.
Navy.

LovE BONHAM ROUSE, prominent attorney in Bristol,
Tenn., died May 8, 1982. Rouse moved to Bristol in
1923 following his graduation from the Washington
and Lee Law School. He was Commonwealth’s At-
torney from 1929 to 1941. Rouse was a long-time
director of the Bank of Virginia and served as the
bank’s attorney since 1930. He was a member of the
Virginia State Bar Association and the Bristol Bar
Association. Rouse was well known for his interest in
show horses, both as a trainer and judge.

1924

EDMUND PENDLETON REVERCOMB, a prominent law-
yer in Covington, Va., died June 1, 1982. Following
his graduation from law school at the University of
Virginia in 1924, he returned to Covington to practice
law in the firm of Revercomb and Revercomb. He
was commissioned a captain in the Judge Advocate
Generals Department and was stationed in the Euro-
pean theatre for three years of active duty during
World War II. He then returned to the law firm in
Covington.

1925

MEREDITH FLETCHER BAUGHER, noted Palm Beach
lawyer and sportsman, died March 31, 1982, in
Houston, Texas, following an extended illness.
Baugher started in the practice of law in Miami, Fla.,
moved to Palm Beach in 1929 to be counsel to the
Palm Beach Co., owned by the Phipps family, and
then practiced in Palm Beach County for over 50
years. At the time of his death, he was senior partner
of Baugher, Mettler and Shelton of Palm Beach, Fla.
He was an active rancher in recent years, owning and
operating cattle ranches in Florida and Virginia. An
active sportsman, Baugher won the Silver Sailfish
Derby in 1941, co-founded the Master’s Sailfish
Tournament, and was a member of the Sailfish Club
of Palm Beach, Fla.

HARVEY BROWN MILLER, a retired executive and
general manager of U.S. Plywood-Champion Paper
Inc., died in Redding, Calif., June 4, 1982. He was a
past member and president of the Western Wooden
Box Association, the Western Wood Products As-
sociation, the National Lumber Manufacturers’ As-
sociation, the Ponderosa Pine Woodwork Associa-
tion, and the Western Forestry and Conservation As-
sociation. Prior to his move to the West Coast, Miller
owned and operated a storage garage in Staunton,
Va., from 1939 to 1940 and was an assistant plant
accountant for American Viscose Corp. in Front
Royal, Va.

HOWARD CLINTON TRAYWICK, formerly an invest-
ment counselor and banker with William E. Pollock
& Co. in Atlanta, Ga., died in October 1981 in
Montgomery, Ala. Prior to his association with Wil-
liam E. Pollock & Co. he was connected with the
Trust Company of Georgia.

29

In Memoriam

1926

CHARLES WALLACE THOMAS LOCKARD, owner,
operator and editor of the Grafton News in Grafton,
W.Va., until 1956 and manager of the Grafton Daily
Sentinel from 1956 until 1963, died in Grafton June
2, 1982. Before coming to Grafton, Lockard was
affiliated with newspapers in Martinsburg, W.Va.,
White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., Covington, Va.,
Lexington, Va., and Long Branch, N.J. He also
owned and operated the Luther S. Day Printing Co. in
Clarksburg, W.Va., for five years prior to his retire-
ment.

(o27

ELDRED CAYCE, a retired manufacturers’ representa-
tive in Nashville, Tenn., died May 26, 1982. Prior to
his becoming a manufacturers’ agent, Cayce was an
executive with the former Tennessee Products and
Chemical Corporation and a manager of the former
Tennessee Electric Power Co. in Columbia, Tenn.
He was a past president and a former member of the
National Mineral Wool Association.

GARLAND THOMAS DAVIS, a retired branch manager
for IBM Corp. died April 19, 1982, in Las Vegas,
Nev. During World War II Davis was an officer in the
ordnance department of the U.S. Army with the rank
of major. He was a member and former president of
the Rotary Club and was active in many charitable
organizations such as Red Cross, Salvation Army and
Shriners hospitals.

MARION MOISE, a prominent attorney in Sumter,
S.C., died June 20, 1982. Moise had practiced law in
Sumter since 1929 as amember of the law firm of Lee
and Moise which was founded 110 years ago by his
grandfather and Mr. Lee. Moise was active in a
number of local civic and service organizations and
served for six years as a member of the Sumter
County Commission which is now known as the
Sumter County Council. He also served for six years
as a member of the Sumter County Development
Board and has served two terms as a county magis-
trate. Moise was former board member of the Ameri-
can Red Cross and the U.S.O.

1929)

CHARLES JESSE HOLLAND, who practiced law in
Miami for many years before retirement, died April
30, 1982, in San Diego, Calif. He began practice in
Miami in 1930.

WILLIAM BICKNELL JACOBS, retired senior vice
president and senior trust officer of Central National
Bank, died May 15, 1982, in Richmond, Va. Jacobs
was a member of numerous civic and community
organizations. He joined Central National Bank, now
Central Fidelity Bank, in 1933 and was named assist-
ant cashier in 1937. In 1942 he was made assistant
trust officer and in 1965 became vice president and
senior trust officer of the bank. Jacobs became senior
vice president of the trust department in 1967 and retir-
ed from the bank in 1971. He served as a consultant.
Jacobs was a former member and president of the

30

Robert E. Lee Council of the Boy Scouts of America,
a member of the board of directors of A. H. Robins
Co. and served on the city personnel board of the city
council from 1955 to 1959. He was a past president of
the State Planning Council of Richmond and a former

member of the committee on trusts of the Virginia

Bankers Association. He was a member of the execu-
tive committee of the Richmond Area Community
Council and was president of the Life Insurance and
Trust Council of Virginia.

1930

JOHN CAMPBELL BANKS, a prominent hardware mer- |

chant, died April 30, 1982, in Columbus, Miss. Dur-
ing World War II he served in the Navy in both the
American and the Pacific Theatres.

1935

Dr. CARL EDWARD LISCHER, a prominent physician
in St. Louis, Mo., died May 17, 1982. After receiving
his medical degree from Washington University in
1937, Lischer did his internship and residency in
surgery at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis, Mo. During
World War II he was a major in the Medical Corp and
for 17 years between 1951 and 1967 served as chief of
surgery at St. Luke’s Hospital in St. Louis. He was a
past member of the board of trustees of John Bur-
roughs School. He was a past president of the St.
Louis Surgical Society, the Missouri Chapter Ameri-
can College of Surgeons, and the Central Surgical
Association. Lischer retired from active practice in
January 1972. He then became associate professor of
surgery at Washington University.

1934

PATRICK HAROLD MITCHELL, a long-time and prom-
inent educator in Portsmouth, Ohio, died June 17,
1982. For more than 20 years, Mitchell served as
principal of the Garfield Elementary School. He was
also on the executive board of the Ohio Department
of Elementary Principals.

£935

HERBERT MERIWETHER GRIFFITH JR., a retired
newspaper, radio, advertising and television busi-
nessman died Nov. 8, 1981, in Salisbury, Md. Griffith
retired several years ago as owner of a radio station.
At one time, he was with the Washington Daily News
and the Washington Post. During World War II he
served in the U.S. Army.

Dr. E. LLoyD WATKINS, former chief of staff of
Chestnut Hill Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa., died March
2, 1982. A graduate of Thomas Jefferson Medical
College, Watkins specialized in obstetrics and gyne-
cology. He was a member of the staff of Chestnut Hill
Hospital, where he served as president from 1959-
1961 and director of obstetrics and gynecology from
1960 to 1970. He was formerly affiliated with the
Newcomb Hospital in Vineland, N.J., and more re-
cently with Family Planning Services in Bridgeton,
N.J. He also served as city physician for Ocean City
from 1973 to 1979. Watkins was a member of the
American Medical Association, the American College

of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the College of Phy-
sicians of Philadelphia, the Phi Beta Kappa Associa-
tion of Philadelphia and the Pennsylvania and New
Jersey Medical Societies.

1936

CHARLES PRESTON ANDERSON Jr., formerly of Oak
Hill, W.Va., died in Gatlinburg, Tenn., April 7,
1982. He was retired from the coal business. At one
time, he had been with the Princess Coal Sales Co.
and later was president of his own firm, Anderson
Coal Co.

JAMES HAROLD DUNCAN, a practicing attorney, died
May 6, 1982, in Somerset, Pa.

fon

CHESTER PATCHEN WHITE, former chairman of the
board of the Blake and Johnson Co. of Waterville,
Conn., a manufacturer of metal fasteners, died March
17, 1981. White had retired to Beauford, S.C., where
he was a director of the Peoples Bank.

1940

ALFRED CHARLES KRIEGER JR., a practicing attorney
in Louisville, Ky., is deceased. Krieger received his
law degree from the University of Louisville in 1942
and served with the Army during World War II. He
returned to active practice in Louisville in 1945.
Krieger had been ill for several years.

1943

Dr. CARROLL VINCENT HERRON of Daytona Beach,
Fla., and medical director at the Daytona International
Speedway, died June 12, 1982, after a brief illness.
Herron moved from Pennsylvania to Daytona Beach
in 1950. He served as a lieutenant in the Navy during
World War II and was stationed at Veteran’s Admini-
stration offices in Philadelphia and Coatesville, Pa.
Herron became assistant medical director at the Day-
tona International Speedway in 1959 and was named
medical director in 1976. He was also medical director
at the Florida Council for the Blind, Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University and General Electric Co.

1963

ROBERT WEEKS BRIDEWELL of Highland Park,
Dallas, Texas, and the president of Bridewell Hotels
Inc., died May 9, 1982. Bridewell began an 18-year
business career in Dallas as a mortgage loan officer
for Prudential Life Insurance Co. He later worked as
a real estate broker for Henry Miller Co. before
founding the Metro Companies, a major hotel de-
velopment company, in 1970. Since 1978, Bridewell
had been an independent hotel financial and develop-
ment consultant. He began the Mansion on Turtle
Creek and was actively involved in its development.
His most current project in the Oak Lawn area was the
renovation of the Melrose Hotel. He was an active
member in many of the civic clubs in Dallas and was
involved in horse racing in the Southwest and was a
member of the Texas Thoroughbred Breeders As-
sociation.

 

 

Gifts
rom the
WEL
Oe ein $200 0. 0) agai ee ply Store

4 ir petehes . ose ou i ee

  

B-15° "WG Baseball Hat’ 2 2 2° S's. $6.49
ule. Wee er) ee e326
B-18 W&L White Striped Jersey ... $10.79

 

re nn te es vie ee LO
BS YOvurmocepa oot. ..... .. 9.309

 

B-3 Youth V-Neck Jersey ....... $4.89 B-9 White Hooded Sweatshirt ... . $15.29
< B-4 Ad | G cl hi Se fe .6 6. 76 @ se 66 i
B-13 Reversible Navy and Tan Jacket, B-4 Poiaa Be moe Shirt a

pet XL) eee .. Sees

 

C-1. Sal: @ Pepper Shakers ...... ...96 29

  

C-3 Wl Mug i2e7.,... ... 23819

C-2 Beer Stein, w/gold trim, 20 oz. . . $9.69

C-5 Grandad Wg fo... 0

C-4:....Coffes' Mug, ieee 1 ase D-1, Higtiall Glass, 120z. ... .. ..2$2.69

C-9 Miniature Beer Stein. ...... . $3.69 So ee Oe. 83:08
B-11 Navy and White General T-Shirt . $8.59 0-4 Single Old Fashioned, 7 oz... . . $2.09
B-12 Cockpit Long Sleeve Shirt... . $11.89 D-7 Brandy Snifter, 3 oz, $3.89 . 6 oz. $5.89
Be Weer Tohitews Crest’ © o'o) 2 G660, D-5. Shot Glass, 20z.°.7 SS . $1.89

é —

  

E-3 Pewter Tankard, w/W&L seal . . $45.79
E-2 Pewter Glass-bottom Tankard,

A-13 Matching Bookends ........ $3.99

 

Mee ee. OO ; aeeAshtey iat . we . ace... SA.99
At Waliwt Ven Seis...) Fo 79, $6149 Bay) Adu Baseball Shima 6... |. ah. $7.99 Aaa Matching GlassMug ... $4, 29
A-2 Walnut Bookends. . 2: .: . 2). $4399 B-4 ‘Adult becrosse T-Shirt: ¢.. . . . $6.99 and Ashtray... . eee $2.19
Be ie INET epee oi cgmar rinacamnes Ge OO. ..BrdG Acuna Velour Sweating 5 ean A-15. W&L Flask,8oz... . : er $3.49

 

SSR ea SN ae Oe UP DE SR AIS SN a CRIT rR ENOTES
3]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. HOME OR OFFICE
1. Solid Walnut Penstand
(tt. oan Foe $51.79, $61.49
2. Solid Walnut Bookends
oe) ok a ee $43.29
3. Marble Paper Weight (8 0z.)..... $5.99
4. Letter Openers (4 0z.) ... . $2.99, $6.89
5. W&L Playing Cards (10 0z.)..... $7.59
6. Stationery (2lb.)....... $3.59, $6.09
7. Pennants (6 0z.) 8%in. ....... $0.89
96 ine. i tt 30 in. $5.79
8. W&L Blankets
Twin Size 905 — wool w/rayon trim
and emblem (51b.)....... $53.59
Twin Size — 100% wool w/white wool
edging and emblem (4 Ib.) . . . $96.09
9. Walnut Paperweight (8 oz.) .... $16.29
10. Solid Walnut Ashtray (2 Ib. 5 oz.) . $23.99
11. Leather Ashtray (1 Ib. 20z.) ... . $7.50
12. Zippo Lighter (5 oz.) — regular. . . $8.29
Be a a a a a kg $9.59
13. Matching Bookends (2I!b.) ..... $3.99
and Ashtray (3 Ibs.) ....... $4.99
14. Matching Glass Mug (3 Ibs.)..... $4.29
and Ashtray (11lb.).......-. $2.19
45.  W&l. Flask: @ 027). 01 18.) «1.6 eee. $3.49
TO DETERMINE ZONE, TAKE FIRST THREE DIGITS OF ZIP CODE TO
WHICH PARCEL IS ADDRESSED AND REFER TO CHART BELOW
ZIP CODE ZIP CODE ZIP CODE
PREFIXES ZONE PREFIXES ZONE PREFIXES ZONE
016-041... 2 4 ne eae. 6
049-049 .... 5 382 S88 04 680-687 .... 5
G5a-069 .... 4 306-36]... 5 es8003 ,... 6
o7vense 6663 Cee 4 Oe
| 3g9.396..... 5 jag 720. 5
ae 2 4A oa 4 es... .&
40448... 3 —————— | 740749 ....5
aie 24 ato4a2 ... 4 Joo 1g2 .-.. &
“47 8 40240... 3 Jolie]... 8
1BO1Se 2 AAA A te. 6
7ice 5400 2 gees 5
oe 2 Aa a 4 760-775 6
met 3 430-433 oe 776-777 5
oie... 2 434-436 4 778-797 6
Jiien . 4. 8 437-438 ae ee
a ee 2 So
200047... Ae saiaee... 3 800-810 6
eae G HeGaee 4 811-816 7
SOG 2 oe ee 3 Bi tee 6
935 cu 2 ige, |. 4 ee 7
eet 498-499 .... 5 PS) ga | 6
OF ss 3 ——_—_——— | 823.826 7
Ma24 a pGa57e |. 5 ie 6
T5288 2. 8 Baneee .... 4 828-832 7
ee Geom... 5 ea 8
90008 .... 2 oa 6 Ce. . ., ;
7 ie 4 So 835-838 sg
995.097... 8 572-588 .... 6 840-847 —
ogg 00 a gone? 7 850-853 Ce
——_—_——— | 598599... 8 855-860 7
g00-992 .. 5. 4 ——————— | 963-864 8
325306. 5 600-611 oa 865-880 7
se. 4 ee: 5 ee 6
ate 6g 613-622 a 882-883 7
tepbe a oo. 5 Se 6
984-366 ca B 624-633 a 890-898 .... 8
ol ae 634-636 5 —- ---—
Oa 5 ies 4 gonobT 8
BIG S74. cds € 640675... 5 670-086... ... 8
iG. te 988-994 .... 8
4 ANY FRACTION OF A POUND OVER THE WEIGHT SHOWN
TAKES THE NEXT HIGHER RATE
WEIGHT RATE CHART TO GROUND ZONES
NOT TO
EXCEED 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
1Ib. | $2.19| $2.21 | $2.25] $2.29] $2.35] $2.40] $ 2.47
a” 9991 934) 2401 248! 259} 2.71 2.84
4° 238| 245| 255| 267| 2.84] 3.91 3.22
4 O47 287] “O7hl 2ae| see] Sao) a6e
5” ee | 2660} $65| 305) 3331 362 3.96
6" Bae} 2811 20)| 325) S571 382) 493
7" O76} 864) 316) 348) Bee) 444) 4
8 564} goa} 9421 3621 406) 464 5.07
g° 993| 316, 3.47). 3827] 437] 455 5.45
10" 4621. 328) 3.62, 400| 455| S45 5.82
W" 3.12| 340| 3.78| 4.20] 4.81| 5.45| 6.20
12" 3.22| 3.52| 3.93] 439| 505] 5.76 6.56
ae 3311 3.63| 4.08| 458| 530| 606] 6.94
14" 3401 3.76| 4.24| 4.77} 5.54| 6.37 731
15" 3.49| 3.87] 439] 499| 5.79| 668| 7.69
16" 3.58] 3.99| 454| 5.16| 603/ 698] 8.06
17" 3681 4111-470) 634} 6.28! 7.201..842
18” 3771, 423| 4561.86045 6624-200) 6:00
19" $661 42551 500] 5.731 677} 7861 946
20” 3.95| 446] 5.16] 5.91| 7.01] 8.20| 9.55
1" 4081 .458|. 6911.804- 7297; e850) 992
22" 4i4\ 4.71] 56461540. 751! Berl” 1629
23" 4241 492| 561). 6494 “7.761 9.12). 10.67
24" 4.33| 4.94| 5.77| 668] 8.00! 9.42| 11.04
25" 4491 505} 692) 6.97} 825! 973) 41.41

 

 

1

ee >»

0.

CLOTHING
W&L Tie (6 oz.)
Baby Bib (2 Ib.)

Youth T-Shirts, sizes 2-16

(2 Ib.)

$4.49, $9.39

Adult T-Shirts, sizesS ML XL

(2 Ib.)

$5.39, $14.99

Youth Gym Shorts, sizesS ML

(7 oz.)

Adult Gym Shorts, cotton polyester

(13 oz.)
Sweatshirts, child (1 Ib.)
Sweatshirts, adult (1 Ib. 5 oz.)

$6.29, $8.59
$9.59
$12.19

Sweatshirts, hooded

(3 Ib.)

$15.29, $16.59

W&L Nightshirts, sizesS ML

(1 Ib.)

Navy and White General T-Shirt

(2 Ib.)

$8.59

Cockpit Long Sleeve Shirt (2 Ib.) . $11.89
Reversible Navy and Tan Jacket,

Sivan MOL XLS 1) 1. bn $30.69
Wark Vigor {10 az... ...s. 1+. $3.29
W&L Baseball Hat (10 0z.) ..... $6.49
W&L Velour Sweater (1 lb. 6 oz.) $18.69
W&L Sew-on Patch (2 0z.) ..... $1.49
W&L White Striped Jersey

ell ea $10.79
CERAMICS
W&L Salt & Pepper Shakers, pair

tee) ee $6.29
W&L Beer Stein, 20 oz.

(215 2 ae) oe a ee A $9.69
W&L Mug, 12 oz. (1 Ib. 4 oz.) . $8.19
W&L Coffee Mug, 7 oz. (1 !b.) ... $4.89
W&L Grandad Mug, 10 oz.

Pe ey we $7.29
Ashtray (1 ie. 262)... eid. . $6.59
Heart-shaped Box (8 oz.) ...... $5.39

You may order from the listed items, many of which are pictured. A check or money
order including the item(s) price, tax (if applicable), and the shipping charges, computed by
use of charts, must accompany your order before it can be processed. Feel free to call the
W&L Supply Store (703-463-9111 ext. 312) to discuss any details.

Miniature Creamer (6 0z.)...... $2.59
Miniature Beer Stein (8 oz.)..... $3.69
GLASSWARE

Highball, 12 oz., w/red and blue crest
(15 oz.) $2.69
Highball, 12 oz., w/red and blue crest,
gold rim (15 oz.) $3.39
Old Fashioned, double, 15 0z., w/red and

blue crest (15 02.) 62, : =. >: $3.09
Old Fashioned, single, 7 oz., w/red and
Mig Gre iio ot | kk a $2.09

Shot Glass, 2 oz., w/red and blue crest

(8 0z.) $1.89
Ashtray, 6 in. square (1 Ib. 14 0z.) . $3.19
Brandy Snifter, 3 oz. (11 0z.). ... $3.89
Brandy Snifter, 6 oz. (11 0z.)... . $5.89
Glass Tankard, 16 oz., w/red and blue

Brace 7 ib Gaze)... we wes $4.29
PEWTER
Tankard, w/W&L crest

Re i a i $13.99
Glass-bottom Tankard, w/lid

(Ti 3 i te es $58.69
Tankard, w/W&L seal (14 oz.) $45.79

JEWELRY
Charms, gold and silver, w/W&L seal
(3 oz.) $6.50, $7.10
Key Rings, gold and silver, w/W&L charm
(068)... 3 $5.29, $7.19, $7.49
Blazer Buttons, 18 ct. gold filled, blue and
white enamel (5 oz.) $29.19
Lapel Pin, gold, w/seal (3 oz.) $13.29

eee a we

Add 50¢ Handling Charge Per Order

All Prices Subject to Change Without Notice.

 

Item
Letter/No.

Description

Total
Price

Weight
ID. 02,

Unit

‘ Size } Oty. Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Send your order to:
Washington and Lee University Supply Store
Lexington, Va. 24450

*Shipping Charges:

After compiling total weight, refer to Zip
Chart to find your zone, then Rate Chart
using appropriate zone and poundage.

Total Weight

 

 

 

Sub Total

 

Total Shipping Charges
* (refer to charts)

 

4% Tax (Va. residents only)

 

Enclose check or
money order for:

 

 

 

 

Name

 

Address

 

SHIPPING

Zip

 

 

INFORMATION

Telephone No. & Area Code

 

 

 

 

ED A ES ES CS AS A AS AS SS SS SS AS SS AS SS CS CAS SY CS CD CS SY SNS CANES CRN CLD CEUEIED CLERED GERD GHEUD-

 

32

Winter Sports Schedules

 

Nov.

Nov.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Mar.

BASKETBALL

26- W&L Tip-Off
27— Tournament
30—Hampden-Sydney
2—Shenandoah
6—Averett
8—Catholic
5—New Paltz
7-8—W&L Invitational Tournament

 

HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

13—Emory & Henry HOME
15—Bridgewater Away
18—Mary Washington HOME
20—Roanoke HOME
22—Lynchburg Away
25—Eastern Mennonite HOME
27—Catholic Away
29—Hampden-Sydney HOME
3 1—Maryville HOME
3—Emory & Henry Away
5—Lynchburg HOME
8—Bridgewater HOME
10—Shenandoah Away
12—Roanoke Away
15—Eastern Mennonite Away
18—Maryville Away
24-
27—ODAC Tournament T.B.A.
4-5—NCAA Regionals T.B.A.
INDOOR TRACK
5—V.M.I. Relays Away
12—Lynchburg, Bridgewater,
Roanoke Lynchburg
26—ODAC Championships T.B.A.

 

Dec.
Deéc.
Dec.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

Feb.

Nov.

Nov.
Nov.

Dec.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.

WRESTLING

1—Hampden-Sydney
4—W&L Invitational
8—Lynchburg
8—Duke
15—Georgia Tech Invitational
22—W&L College Invitational
29—W&L Quadrangular
S—W&L Quadrangular
9—Lynchburg
1 1—Catawba
12—Pfeiffer
16—Longwood
19—NCAA Division III
Eastern Regionals
25-26—NCAA Division III National
Championships

 

SWIMMING

17—V.M.I., University of
Richmond
19—Johns Hopkins
20- W&lL Senior
21— Invitational
2-4—-Virginia State Collegiate
Championships
8—S.U.N.Y.—Fredonia State
14—James Madison
15—Towson State
2 1—-Shepherd
22—Georgetown
29—William and Mary

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away

Away

Away

HOME

T.B.A.

HOME
HOME

HOME

Richmond

HOME
Away
V.M.I.
Away
HOME
Away

12—Virginia Commonwealth Sweet Briar

17-19—UNC-Wilmington
Invitational

Feb. 26-28—Virginia Senior

Mar.

Championships
17- NCAA Division III
19— Championships

Away
V4.

Away

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
(USPS 667-040)

Lexington, Virginia 24450 |

 

ate

 

 

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

037556

RD

VA

ANIEL T BALFOUR

RALSTON

=
i,

LCHMOND
23229

goes
xe
=n

 

 

