 

 

 

ite, ere Ry ae

_—"
Ys
~<

>» =
ae. | .

 

 

 

 

, 7 Circa re 5 “ het

be Ae tes

Pi

se ee
Pe

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
Volume 61, Number 5, October 1986

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce HArRIs, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FuRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
PATRICK HINELy, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, IIl.

JOHN W. Fo.som, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, ’62, Treasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFourR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarpD Capito, 68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. DAwson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

M. LEE HALFORD Jr., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JrR., ’65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINsT, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

WAYNE D. McGrew Jp., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

PAuL J. B. Murpny, ’49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., 58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH JrR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

 

 

Z Parles-tu CAI?

 

6 Tailor-made Aid

 

10 += In His Blood

 

14 Another New Year

 

16 _~_—siIs the British Press Free?

 

19 W&L Gazette

 

24 Alumni News

 

26 # Class Notes

 

34 In Memoriam

 

36 =And Furthermore

 

37 Cheers from the W&L Bookstore

 

ON THE COVER: A foreign language class takes advantage of a perfect
fall day to leave the classroom. For many language classes, however, com-
puters have become a key element in the equation. (See story on page 2.)
On the inside front cover, a freshman avoids construction on nearby Gaines
Residence Hall and carries his belongings into Graham-Lees Dormitory
on moving-in day. (See story on page 14.) Photos by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

 

SN

 

Parles-tu CAI?

Computing Foreign Languages at W&L

by Anne Coulling

 

 

a Met MS ERS eames ie oat Re aa aks 230 |

bie Se ay

eienieninisiil autre professeur n'est pas trés intelligent. (That)
2! Madenciselle, vous avez oublié lunettes de soleil. (your)
- Alain jette un coup d’oeil sur ...
MR eel a tM ag *
. Ces rues ne sont pas larges, longues. (they

Paris cette eral “nat Cae 8

* AS we ia thad been waiting/for a long tine)
3. Je ne savais pourquoi ils twere laughing)

bce le journal ce satin. (did read)

HIT “RETURN® TO BEGIN YOUR TEST!

Russ Knudson, left, and Kathy Koberstein have turned the computer center into a second language laboratory.

ou sit before a computer terminal in
Washington and Lee’s Tucker Hall, your
sweaty palms resting lightly on the keyboard.
You take a deep breath and tap in your log-
in code. The message appears: ‘‘HERE IS
YOUR TEST!! READ IT THROUGH
CAREFULLY BEFORE YOU BEGIN!”’’

You wipe your sweaty hands and begin.
Question No. 1: ‘‘Crois-tu que Nicolas
_—“‘isés (has Come tn ).”’ (D0 os
believe that Nicolas has come down?) You
must fill in the blank. You know that the
French word for ‘‘come down’’ is ‘‘descen-
dre.’’ But how to put it in the subjunctive
passe compose? You wipe your palms again
and stare at the screen. Of course! ‘‘Soit
descendu.’’ You fill in the blank and move
on to Question 2.

That blank is just as difficult to fill, but
you type in another answer. Then another

2 W&L

and another. When you have finished the
10-question quiz, the computer suggests that
you check over your answers and offers a
chance to change any of them that you wish.
Once you have reread the test and made any
corrections, the computer goes to work and
grades you. When it finds an error, it blinks
a message that explains what you did wrong.
Finally, your score appears on the
screen—90. You breathe a sigh of relief. And
wipe your palms again.

You are a student in French 162, and you
have just completed one of the weekly tests.
The questions on the quiz are no different
from those asked on similar quizzes in col-
lege French classes throughout the nation.
The difference is that most students take such
examinations in a more traditional way—
with a pencil and a piece of paper. But not
at Washington and Lee. Not anymore.

High tech has come to foreign language
teaching at Washington and Lee in the form
of something called CAI—‘‘computer-
assisted instruction.’’

During the past year and a half, French
professors Russell Knudson and Kathy J.
Koberstein have been developing materials
that allow students in intermediate-level
French classes to perform exercises and even
take quizzes at the terminal. The two pro-
fessors were so pleased by their students’
progress under the experimental program
that they are in the process of developing an
entire software package for use in teaching
French. And now a $500,000 grant from the
Pew Memorial Trust will allow for the great-
ly expanded use of CAI throughout W&L’s
language departments.

Teaching foreign languages. at
Washington and Lee will never be the same.

 

a rca

 

 

L was ‘‘just curlosity,’” Russ Knudson says,
that inspired him and Kathy Koberstein to
explore the possibilities of computer-assisted
learning. ‘‘When you speak of language
drills, the word sounds so grim,”’ he explains.
**And the drills are often as grim as the term.
So we are always looking for something that
will be less painful, will take less time, and
will be more thorough. When anything
comes along, it behooves one to investigate
it.”

Using the computer to teach foreign
language is not a radically new idea, Knud-
son admits. ‘‘Various companies have been
marketing CAI materials commercially for
some time,’’ he says. ‘‘The problem we
found with most of those materials,
however, is that they were not founded on
good methodology; they contained errors.’’

The solution to this dilemma was ob-
vious: Knudson and Koberstein should write
their own materials. They got their chance
less than two years ago, when the Universi-
ty’s computer center bought an authoring
system that could be used to develop
language exercises. The pair decided to ex-
periment with the new system.

That was in itself a courageous step. Ad-
mits Knudson: ‘‘The computer was much
more foreign to me than foreign language.
I didn’t even know how to log on. The first
thing I learned was how to turn it on. And
if I could have done that from the other
room, I would have. I was scared to death.”’

Once they had mastered the art of flip-
ping the off-on switch, Knudson and Kobers-
tein slowly began to develop drills. ‘‘They
were simple exercises at first,’ Knudson
says. ‘‘Back then, though, they didn’t seem
simple. They were mind-boggling. But after
we lost some of our fear, we came to
recognize the potential of what we were deal-
ing with. And the culmination was to try it
out.”’

The timing for CAI experimentation was
propitious. Washington and Lee had recently
instituted new general education guidelines
requiring students to demonstrate proficien-
cy through the intermediate level of a foreign
language. The new requirements resulted in
increased enrollments in foreign language
classes. The moment was right to move
foreign language instruction in a new
direction.

The Koberstein-Knudson team found a
perfect test group for their new programs.
It consisted of students who had taken
enough high school French to place out of
the introductory course, but who were not
quite ready for the intermediate level. Knud-
son and Koberstein were each assigned to
teach a section of these students. So they

wrote computer exercises to complement the
regular text and workbook.

‘*We told these students, ‘Look, you are
guinea pigs, but we won’t let you suffer,’ ”’
recalls Knudson. ‘‘Far from suffering, they
benefited.’’ Soon, the students abandoned
their workbooks and relied almost exclusive-
ly on the computer.

The experiment proved enormously suc-
cessful. At the end of the term, Knudson and
Koberstein gave the students the same place-
ment test they had taken before they began
the course. Almost one-fifth of them had
mastered the grammar necessary to place out
of the intermediate level.

‘We had a wonderful control group—
the students who were enrolled in the course
during the previous semester,’? Knudson
says. ‘“We could look back and compare the
grades of the two groups.’’

And the results? ‘“They were way beyond
what we had expected.’’

 

he reason CAI is so successful, its pro-
ponents believe, is that students learn right
away whether they have answered a question
correctly. ‘‘The computer provides im-
mediate feedback,’ Knudson explains. ‘‘It’s
like a self-correcting workbook. Most
workbooks are self-correcting—that is, the
answers are in the back of the book. But that
system has many disadvantages—the
students don’t look up the answers, or they
don’t even bother to do the exercises, because
they know where the answers are.

‘“With the computer, however, it doesn’t
work that way. They answer the question and
are immediately told if it is wrong. They are
even given a clue, such as ‘Why did you use
that tense?’ Eventually, if they don’t figure
out the right answer on their own, the com-
puter will tell them. But it says, ‘Here is the
answer; now type it.” What a difference that
is from the workbook! They can’t go on
without giving the correct answer.’’

W&L 3

cam tt Gk AY fee

Exercises based on the following grammar points are available:

Type the letter of the grammar point on which you wish to work and hit “return*

» (preview

. vocabulary drill UNIT 2

. the imperfect tense

. the passé composé with AVOIR

. the passé composé with ETRE

. the passé composé v.s. the imperfect
. that’s all for now

Did you try to sneak by without trying to correct your answer? TSK! TSK!

way! Try again!
tattendaient

Fantastique! Correct!
Hit “return” to continue!

You got “longtemps” correct but the “for" is not correct (-7),

again. think “for* or “since*!
NOW TRANSLATE THE SECOND BLANK!

7-8. Colette et sa nére
longtenps

*

 

Take, for instance, a series of fill-in-the-
blanks exercises on the passe compose, the
French perfect tense. The first sentence
reads: ‘‘Paul et Marc la lecon
(began).’’ (Paul and Mark began the lesson.)
If you type the correct answer, ‘‘ont com-
mence,’’ the computer responds, ‘‘Tres
bien!’’ But if you make an error, you know
it immediately. ‘‘Don’t forget the accent!’’
the screen admonishes. Or, ‘‘That’s not
it. . . look it over and try again.’’

Knudson and Koberstein argue that the
computer’s ability to provide an instan-
taneous response improves the learning pro-
cess immeasurably. Their students agree.
‘*You learn more thoroughly with the com-
puter, because you have to be more exact,”’
says John Deighan, ’89, of Pennsauken, N.J.
‘It won’t let you get by with, say, putting
down the wrong accent. It’s much better than
just sitting down with a workbook.”’

There is another difference between
workbooks and computer exercises: the drills
written by Koberstein and Knudson reveal
a sense of humor and enthusiasm that is rare
in most traditional grammar textbooks.
When students give the correct answer, the
computer congratulates them with such
ebullient phrases as ‘‘Excellent,’’ ‘‘Magnifi-

4 W&L

(had been waiting/for a long tine)

the inperfect.

sentence.

ett th:

Rie ti]

4

que,’’ or even ‘‘Formidable!’’ When students
are wrong, the computer expresses its
regret—‘‘Helas, non!’’ (Alas, no!)—or of-
fers encouragement—‘‘Essayez encore!’’
(Try again!)

‘People tend to think the computer is
dry, dull, and sterile,’’ says Koberstein. ‘‘But
it’s just the opposite. We have a good time
writing the exercises, and I think the students
have a good time doing them.”’

Knudson believes that the use of com-
puters helps students develop more positive
feelings about learning a foreign language.
**Students who don’t do well in class can
often become discouraged, because the
material marches on, and they are sometimes
left behind,’’ he says. ‘‘But with CAI, they
have a feeling of accomplishment. They can
see they are making progress. They feel good
about it.”’

For Mike Shady, ’89, of Berwyn, Pa.,
computer-assisted instruction was indeed a
positive experience. ‘‘With the computer,
you can decide your own fate,’’ Shady says.
‘If you want an A, you just have to work
for it. It’s challenging, but it’s simply a mat-
ter of doing the work.’’ And for the students
who do the work, Shady says, the rewards
are there. ‘‘I’ve learned a lot more French

Each sentence will include one verb in the passé composé and
imperfect. You decide which tense to use according to the context of the

out and try it again!
3. Je ne savais pourquoi ils

Bien sir! That’s ri
Hit “return® to continue!

 

~THE PASSE COMPOSE VS. THE IMPERFECT -~
WHAT WAS GOING ON WHEN SOMETHING ELSE HAPPENED

Following is a series of sentences a ene interrupted action, what vas
going on when sonmehting else

Note that “quand” means “when" and
the passé composé.

er bet | by either the imperfect or

"Pendant que" means “while* and in the past will call for

one verb in the

RETYPE THE ENTIRE SENTENCE INCLUDING CORRECT FORMS OF THE INFINITIVES GIVEN.

le Louvre.
rerratrss

(were laughing)

po ge You answered question 10 correctly! “We did read* is indeed "Nous
as ae ta

You will now find out your actual score! GOOD LUCK!
WOLD YOUR BREATH AND HIT “RETURN TO FIND OUT YOUR SCORE

from the computer at Washington and Lee
than I ever learned in high school.’’

When Koberstein and Knudson recogniz-
ed the benefits of computerized drills and ex-
ercises, they decided to apply the same prin-
ciples to testing. ‘‘The problem with much
traditional testing,’’ Knudson believes, ‘‘is
that very often it isn’t much of a learning ex-
perience. CAI corrects that problem. On the
computer, you take the test, your answers
are recorded, and then the computer shows
you where you are right and where you went
wrong. You may have made a 45 on the test,
but before you leave, you have been led to
the correct answers. You leave not only hav-
ing been tested: you have learned
something.”’

The computer’s ability to grade a paper
immediately is not its only advantage over
the traditional testing method. ‘‘A professor
does not have the time to go over every test
question with every student and explain what
he or she has done wrong,’’ says Koberstein.
‘‘But the computer can. It offers a kind of
individualized attention that the professor
cannot always provide.”’

That is not to suggest that the human
teachers fail to review their students’ prog-
ress. ‘‘The computer is a great time-saver

 

for us, because it does our grading,’’ explains
Koberstein. ‘‘But it also tells us how the
students answered each question. So we can
look back and see what they were doing
wrong. And if they have obviously made a
typographical mistake, or something is
wrong with the computer, we can adjust the
score.”’

Knudson and Koberstein had originally
anticipated that their students would require
some training before they could begin work-
ing with the computer. ‘‘We planned to
spend an entire class period explaining the
computer to them,’’ Knudson recalls. ‘‘So
I took my students down to the computer
center and asked how many of them had ever
used a computer before. All of them raised
their hands. I knew less than any of them
did. I had written a tutorial to teach them
the computer. They whipped through it and
said, ‘Okay, we’re ready. Where are the
drills?’

**So many students today are computer-
literate. They have played video games; they
used computers in their schools; they have
personal computers at home. Even though
the particular system is new to them, they
understand how the computer works. We live
in a high-tech society, and they’re not afraid
of something new. They haven’t got the
hang-ups people of my generation have.’’

CAI seems a perfect teaching tool for a
generation of students that has grown up
with computers. But is there a danger that
a keyboard and terminal will replace a liv-
ing, breathing professor, that a series of blips
and beeps will make obsolete a good old-
fashioned classroom lecture?

Far from it. The greatest advantage of
computer-assisted instruction, the program’s
developers say, is that it improves the quali-
ty of the class time.

‘‘How much time in a foreign language
class is spent drilling?’’ Knudson asks. ‘‘If
the students do the drills on their own time,
we can spend more time actually using the
language. We want to move the acquisition
of the language out of the classroom, so that
we can put more emphasis on application.’’

This is precisely the reasoning Knudson
uses to refute any suggestion that using com-
puters makes learning a language ‘‘imper-
sonal.’’ ‘‘The computer and the language
laboratory are supposed to be so imper-
sonal,’’ he says. ‘‘Language acquisition can
often be impersonal—the impersonal ac-
quisition of the most personal thing you
have, your communication, which is the ex-
pression of what we think, what we feel,
what we are. We want to get past the imper-
sonal and make language personal again.”’

Consequently, students in Koberstein’s
and Knudson’s intermediate French courses

do not spend all their class time reciting verb
conjugations. Instead, they talk to one
another. They make use of the grammar
skills they have practiced on the computer.

‘It changes the whole nature of what
they have come to think of as language
study,’’ Knudson says. ‘‘They learn about
their classmates, and they learn about
themselves. And that, after all, is what com-
munication is all about.’’ He muses for a mo-
ment. ‘‘Who knows? Perhaps language ac-
quisition is not the most important thing they
learn in the classroom.’’

Once they were convinced of the effec-
tiveness of computer-assisted instruction,
Knudson and Koberstein sat down to develop
an entire software package, complete with
text, drills, and oral exercises.

The undertaking, Knudson insists, is not
as difficult as it might seem. ‘“‘It’s like
authoring anything else—a textbook, an ar-
ticle, a novel. (In 1982 Knudson and fellow
romance languages professor Alfred Fralin
authored a textbook—October 1982 Alum-
ni Magazine.) The same principles are involv-
ed; it’s just a different medium. You sit
down with your yellow pad, look out the
window, and say, ‘Here we go!’ And even-
tually you’re programming, though it never
comes out exactly the way it was on the
yellow pad.”’

Other professors in Washington and
Lee’s foreign language departments are
following the lead established by Knudson
and Koberstein. CAI may be introduced in-
to the Spanish and German curricula this
year, and the University’s teachers of Latin,

—— een

atiewhchudhkss

 

Russian, and Chinese plan to begin using the
computer in their classes soon.

W&L’s progress in the field of computer-
assisted instruction received an enormous
boost from the Pew Trust’s $500,000 grant,
much of which will go toward developing
CAI.

One of the most exciting new areas that
can be pursued because of the Pew grant in-
volves the acquisition of audio cassette
machines designed to interface with com-
puter terminals. This will permit students to
participate in the four language skills—
reading, writing, listening, and speaking—
all at the same time, all in front of the
computer.

‘‘If you are using all four skills in the
same activity,’’ Knudson says, ‘‘I think you
can’t help but learn a lot more quickly and
a lot more thoroughly.”’

Knudson, Koberstein, and their col-
leagues in the foreign language departments
have very specific and detailed plans for the
development of CAI during the next five
years. But from 1991 on, it is difficult to en-
vision the future.

‘“‘Two years ago, it would have been
beyond my wildest imagination that I would
be writing computer programs,’’ says Knud-
son. ‘‘Now here I am, co-authoring an en-
tire software package. We are so fortunate
to be here at W&L, where we are free to ex-
periment and where we now have the sup-
port of the Pew grant. There is the possibility
that we could really become a center for
developing this kind of material. With more
and more advances in technology, who
knows how much further we can go?’’

 

Two students brush up on their French grammar in a new way.

W&L 5

Tailor-made Aid

 

W&L Attempts to Make Financial Aid Packages Fit

 

F.. John and Jane Parent, the scenario
can be frightening. Or at least a little
unnerving.

The Parents’ son (or daughter) has been
accepted at the university of her (or his)
choice. The day’s mail has brought the long-
awaited letter of acceptance. In addition to
offering congratulations, the letter includes
information about freshman orientation,
registration, and, of course, costs.

The Parents have been planning and sav-
ing for years. But the tuition and room and
board figures are a thunderclap of reality in
a sky full of bright lights and high hopes.
Surely, they tell themselves, it can’t really
cost almost $12,000 to attend Washington
and Lee each year. ‘‘How will we pay for
it?’’ they ask.

Everyone from Jane Bryant Quinn to Joe
the bartender offers the Parents advice.
**Shift your income and assets to your child
sO you’ll be in a lower tax bracket,’’ someone
tells them. ‘‘Have you considered Uniform
Gifts to Minors?’’ asks someone else. What
about Clifford trusts, spousal reminder
trusts, Crown loans, custodial accounts,
zero-coupon bonds, tax-sheltered annuities,
certificates of deposit, central assets ac-
counts, or any of the investment-oriented life
insurance policies?

Understandably, the Parents are perplex-
ed. What does all this mean? What really is
the best way to finance their child’s educa-
tion, they wonder. Isn’t there someone who
knows all the answers?

The Parents’ predicament, fictional
though it may be, serves to illustrate the very
real challenge that faces parents of today’s
college age children when it comes to pay-
ing for higher education. The array of
scholarships and grants, loan plans and
work/study programs, and the countless
other methods of financing four years of col-
lege is enough to make even the most astute
financial planner go a little bonkers.

And unfortunately for the Parents (and
the parents) no one has all the answers.

**No one really knows everything,’’ con-
fesses John DeCourcy, financial aid direc-
tor at Washington and Lee. ‘‘There is just
such a myriad of sources, rules, and regula-

6 W&L

by Brian Shaw

 

tions. It’s difficult to see how all these things
flow together.”’

For example, students at Washington and
Lee (both undergraduate and law) are eligi-
ble to receive almost 50 different types of

scholarships, grants, and loans. Each
scholarship, grant, and loan has its own
regulations and requirements for eligibility.

In addition to keeping abreast of the
regulations for financial aid, DeCourcy also
spends a great deal of time going over the
confidential financial statement of each
parent and student who applies for financial
aid. The reason, DeCourcy notes, is that
Washington and Lee works hard at tailor-
ing its financial aid packages to the needs of

the individual.

At many large state and private institu-
tions, financial aid is awarded strictly on the
basis of a rigid formula. If the parents and
student make a certain amount of money and
meet other specific requirements, they are en-
titled to a certain amount of financial aid.
Period. At Washington and Lee, DeCourcy
says, there are many more variables to
consider.

‘“‘We make an effort to go the extra
mile,’’ he explains, ‘‘realizing that the forms
filled out by parents don’t always tell the
whole story.”’

‘‘We are not just doling out money,”’
says William Hartog, director of admissions
at W&L. ‘‘There is a lot of subtlety and
sophistication that goes into the process of
awarding aid.’’

The starting point of any financial aid re-
quest is the Financial Aid Form distributed
by the College Scholarship Service of the
College Entrance Examination Board, the
same organization that oversees the
Scholastic Aptitude Test.

The FAF looks like a 1040 Federal In-
come Tax form and calls for much of the
same information. Parents are asked to pro-
vide information on their income and ex-
penses and those of the student, household
information such as the number of parents
and children in college, information on
assets, and a breakdown of other pertinent
financial data.

‘**The FAF is a snapshot of the family’s
financial picture,’’ DeCourcy says. ‘‘It is a
measure of financial strength and gives us
a common denominator nationwide. It
shows how a family stacks up compared to
other families.’

The annual deadline for filing the FAF
is Feb. 1. Since a family’s financial status can
change from year to year, parents are re-
quired to file an FAF each year a student ap-
plies for financial aid.

Once the FAF arrives at his office,
DeCourcy begins the laborious task of ex-
amining each form, checking for ‘‘obvious
questions and discrepancies.’’ Each applica-
tion is then rated on the basis of what it will
cost to attend W&L, how much money the
parents and student can come up with to pay

 

Six Financial Aid Case Studies

Income* House- Family Contribution* Calculated Need* Composition of Financial Aid Package Total
Net hold No. In Grants Work/ Financial

Standard WEL Assets Size College Standard W&L Standard WEL Federal/State WEL Loan Aid
STUDENT A $30,300 $30,300 | $ 4,000 4 1 $ 2,700 $ 2,700 | $ 9,300 $ 9,300 $ 1,150 $ 5,550 $ 1,100/1,500 $ 9,330
STUDENT B 2,600 2,600 -0- 1 1 1,600 1,150 11,650 11,100 4,100 5,650 1,870/ 630 12,250
STUDENT C 38,000 12,500 120,000 3 1 10,000 4,450 2,000 7,550 1,150 3,800 1,100/2,500 8,500
STUDENT D 20,500 36,100 12,000 6 1 1,700 6,800 10,500 5,320 -0- 5,000 1,100/4,000 10,100
STUDENT E 55,000 33,450 55,000 5 2 6,300 &139 5,850 9,415 -0- 8,315 1,100/ -0- 9,415
STUDENT F 19,638 22,138 -0- 3 1 1,650 5,545 10,350 6,455 1,400 2,450 1,100/4,000 8,950

*In these three columns the figures listed under Standard refer to the
calculations made by the College Scholarship Service based upon the stu-
dent’s Financial Aid Form; the figures listed under W&L refer to calcula-
tions made by the University’s Office of Financial Aid based upon the Finan-
cial Aid Form and other information.

Student A is receiving the typical package for a lower middle income
applicant.

Student B is a self-supporting student with a high grade-point average.
The student has no parents.

Student C’s parents are divorced and both parents are now unemployed.
This situation dictated a recalculation of need. Note that significant assets
are not necessarily available for loan collateral due to loss of income, and
the sale of assets may not be possible until the divorce settlement is completed.

Student D’s forms indicated a very low income, but the actual income
is significantly higher due to a small business tax shelter. However, it was
possible to award self-help (loan and work) to the higher need figure.

Student E, like student C, is affected by a parent’s loss of employment
that was not reflected on the forms by which standard calculations were made.
Grant assistance was offered to meet higher need, based on a lower projected
income because the student has a 4.0 grade-point average.

Student F is another instance of a student with divorced parents. The
increase in contribution in W&L’s calculations is because one parent’s potential
contribution was not counted in the federal analysis of need. The non-custodial
parent is left with the option of contributing to the student’s education or
forcing the student to take out loans.

(Family and financial aid resources combine to fund the student’s finan-
cial aid budget of approximately $12,000 for 1986-87. This budget covers
room, board, tuition, fees, books and supplies and an allowance of approx-
imately $25 per week for miscellaneous expenses, e.g., laundry, haircuts,
entertainment, etc. The budget also provides an allowance for two round
trips between the student’s home and Lexington.)

 

for the education, and statistically—based on
the FAF form—what they should be able to
pay.

Near the end of March, DeCourcy meets
with Hartog to review the list of candidates
who will be offered admission to Washington
and Lee and have applied for financial aid.
(W&L has an admissions policy that is ‘‘need
blind.’’ That means students are admitted to
Washington and Lee solely on their academic
and extracurricular activities records. No stu-
dent is denied admission because he or she
applied for financial aid.) The students are
then notified of their acceptance to
Washington and Lee and, if they qualify, are
offered a financial aid package that DeCour-
cy has designed for them.

The work/study job is an integral part
of many financial aid packages, DeCourcy
says. Students are given jobs at minimum
wage in various offices throughout the cam-
pus. The students are usually limited to the
amount of time they can work: freshmen are
permitted to work five hours each week; up-
perclassmen may work 10 hours per week.
(See page 9.)

The typical financial aid package,
DeCourcy says, consists of all three com-
ponents: a grant, a loan, and a work/study
job. In that package, for example, an up-
perclass student with a financial aid need of
$5,518 (determined by the FAF and other
factors) would receive a $2,918 grant from
the University, a $1,500 student loan, and
an on-campus job at minimum wage that
would pay $1,100.

It is within the structure of the financial
aid package that DeCourcy is able to tailor

the available aid to the student’s needs. The
chart above shows six different financial aid
packages. There is often a substantial dif-
ference between the federal tax information
and the Washington and Lee calculations,
which are shown side-by-side in the column
containing the family incomes.

In the case of Student C, for instance, the
family’s income is $38,000, but DeCourcy
calculated it at $12,500. Through conversa-
tions with the student and parents, DeCourcy
found that the parents were in the process
of getting a divorce and the student was liv-
ing with the mother who is unemployed.
Although the family held significant net
assets, the assets were frozen until the divorce
proceedings were finalized.

Using standard calculations, the financial
need of the student would have been only
$2,000. But based on DeCourcy’s calcula-
tions, the student was offered a grant, loan,
and work/study package based on a finan-
cial need of $7,750.

Student F’s situation is the opposite of
Student C’s. In this instance, the family’s
calculated income is based solely on the in-
come of the divorced parent with whom the
student lives. Washington and Lee’s calcula-
tion of income is higher than the standard
calculation based on DeCourcy’s perception
of the other parent’s ability to contribute to
the student’s education taken from that
parent’s FAF.

In such an instance the parent with whom
the student is not living is under no obliga-
tion to contribute to the child’s education.
By devising the package he has, DeCourcy
has left the decision up to the parent—

whether to contribute to the child’s educa-
tion or force heavy borrowing on the child.

The other financial packages in the chart
show a variety of different situations in
which DeCourcy has tailored the financial
aid packages to the needs of the student.

The financial pictures of the parents and
the students change from year to year. So do
the financial aid awards. With the new FAF
each year, DeCourcy re-evaluates all the
students’ packages to see if they are receiv-
ing the proper aid to which they are entitled.

Students receiving grants and scholar-
ships based on academic achievement are re-
quired to maintain a specified grade-point
average each year. If they fall below that
average, they are in danger of losing the
scholarship and would then have to meet the
education expenses through a loan or a
work/study position.

The opposite also applies. Ifa student
comes to Washington and Lee with a typical
three-part financial aid package and earns a
high grade-point average, the grant portion
of the package may be increased while the
loan or work/study portions are reduced
proportionately.

In recent years, the perception of finan-
cial aid and the role it plays in education has
begun to change. That is especially true for
small, private colleges and universities. More
and more institutions like Washington and
Lee are using financial aid as a tool for
recruiting the best students.

‘Prior to 1978, financial aid was used as
an apology for high cost in private schools
and to equalize the differences between the
public and private sectors,’’ Hartog says.

W&L 7

 

 

 

John DeCourcy in a
familiar pose—
examining the myriad
JSorms that are used to
create financial aid
packages.

‘**Today it is a tremendously effective vehi-
cle in the recruitment and enrollment of
outstanding students. In fact, we go to great
lengths to reach students who may be inclin-
ed to dismiss Washington and Lee solely on
the basis of cost.’’

With the use of financial aid as a
recruiting tool has come what is called ‘‘dif-
ferential packaging.’’ Under the system, a
top student with excellent credentials is
awarded a better financial aid package than
a student who has similar need but, for
various reasons, is less attractive to the ad-
missions Office.

For example, suppose two students both
show a financial need of $6,500. One carries
a grade-point average of 3.8, high standard-
ized test scores, and a long list of extracur-
ricular activities; the other student has a
GPA of 3.0, slightly better than average
scores, and a few extracurricular activities.
The first student could be awarded the en-
tire $6,500 in a grant while the other might
be given a package that totals $6,500 but is
divided between grant, loan, and
work/study.

Another recent innovation in financial
aid is the creation of the ‘‘no-need’’ scholar-
ships. Such aid goes to the most highly
qualified students who might not technical-
ly need financial aid, but who might choose
other institutions over Washington and Lee
were it not for the offer of a scholarship.
Hartog predicts that the number of such

8 W&L

‘**no-need’’ scholarships will grow as colleges
and universities continue to compete for the
best students.

The ‘‘no-need’’ grants are financed
through the University’s endowment. In the
total picture of small colleges and univer-
sities, Washington and Lee is indeed for-
tunate to have a large enough endowment
from which to provide assistance to qualified
students. W&L now offers a number of dif-
ferent ‘‘no-need’’ or honor scholarships,
most of which have been specifically endow-
ed by individuals, corporations and, in two
cases thus far (Houston and Baltimore),
alumni chapters. (The Mid-South alumni
chapter in Memphis will initiate an honor
scholarship beginning in the 1987-88
academic year.)

As the pool of college age students across
the country continues to shrink, the competi-
tion for qualified students will grow more
and more keen. The part of the endowment
specifically earmarked for scholarships will
become ever more important, allowing the
University to attract and retain the best and
brightest students by offering them financial
aid.

Having the funds to provide such aid will
help stop a nationwide trend that W&L
President John D. Wilson believes will have
a significant impact on future generations of
students.

‘*With so many students taking out loans
to pay for their education we are creating a

 

generation of heavily indebted baccalaureate
graduates,’’ Wilson says. ‘“‘It is a serious
social problem.

**If a student graduates with scholastic
debts of tens of thousands of dollars and
marries another student with the same debts,
it creates a terrible burden. I am worried
about the debilitating effects of such debts
upon young people. Society ought to work
out a better balance between loans and
outright grants.”’

Washington and Lee is moving in that
direction with its large portion of unrestricted
endowment funds that can be used for grants
and scholarships. But the traditional finan-
cial aid package of a grant, a loan, and a
work/study job will continue to dominate
the aid picture for some time to come. And
with that package come the endless forms
that DeCourcy says have transformed him
from an educator to ‘‘a paper pusher, a
bureaucrat.’’

With all the paperwork and endless
details to bog him down, DeCourcy must
take his victories wherever he finds them.

‘*This job does offer a lot of satisfac-
tion,’’ he says. ‘‘The most challenging part
is when a student or family runs into some
difficulty, like a divorce, a death, or the loss
of a job. Being able to work with the family
and get the student back to Washington and
Lee is very rewarding and can make poring
over all those forms seem worth it.”’

 

 

Confessions of a Work/Study

E. many of my classmates at
Washington and Lee and thousands of
students on college campuses throughout
the country, I’m working my way through
college.

That is nothing new, of course. For
generations, students have been holding
down jobs while going to school. And,
no doubt, many of those students have
had the same attitude that I have—more
than a burden, the work represents an im-
portant element in my total educational
experience.

My job is not only paying for my
education; it is giving me one.

In fact, my education does not stop
in the classroom. It hardly starts there.
It extends to every aspect of my life on

.
=
*
‘

oc OEE:

 

:

by Chris Deighan, ’87

the campus—as business manager for the
Glee Club, treasurer of W&L’s off-
campus Christian house, the Lampost,
and as a work/study student.

As the ninth child in a family of 11,
with the three youngest—and Mom,
too—enrolled in undergraduate pro-
grams, I have learned the reatities of in-
dependence and hard work. And I can ap-
preciate them tremendously. .

Through Washington and Lee’s
work/study program, part of my total
financial aid package from the Universi-
ty, 1am putting those lessons to work 40

hours a month at minimum wage in the

Office of Summer Programs. The job
pays my rent. And more.
As I see it, W&L is able to tap its own

 

Chris Deighan has parlayed a work/study position into summer employment.

resources by putting the students to work
in jobs that may not require extensive
knowledge or skill but that are very im-
portant to the day-to-day operation of the
University.

And students are given the opportuni-
ty to earn money in a very flexible en-
vironment. A term paper easily takes
priority over a few hours of office work.

Those hours of work, few though they
may be, are important to me. They are
my independence.

Work/study students are employed
throughout the campus—from the dining
hall to the Office of the President. As a
freshman, I spent my year pulling out-
dated cards from the University Library’s
catalog.

As a sophomore I received a new
work/study assignment—and one that
has grown into something I hadn’t even
expected. As a work/study student in the
Office of Summer Programs, I have done
everything from generate letters on the of-
fice’s computer to handling basic clerical
tasks to hauling pillows and blankets
around the campus.

Midway through my first year in the
Office of Summer Programs I was asked
to extend my work through the summer.
I accepted and have spent the last two
summers in Lexington, where I do a lit-
tle bit of everything for the programs that
are held on the campus.

As resident assistant at Woods Creek
Apartments, I am responsible for the
housing needs of the program par-
ticipants. But that is only part of my sum-
mer duties, which are so wide ranging that
I have a little trouble describing what I
do—sometimes even to myself.

At any rate, this summer opportuni-
ty has helped pay the balance of what I
consider a very affordable W&L tuition
bill, thanks to a generous financial aid
package—the same package that includes
my work/study job.

I will not pretend to speak for all the
other work/study students at W&L—or
anywhere else, for that matter. But I can
say that from my own experience the
work/study program is more than a
necessary evil that helps me pay the bills.
For me, it’s been an invaluable part of the
entire educational experience.

 

W&L

 

In His Blood

Never a Dull Moment for Horse Breeder Ben Walden, ’

by Jeffery G. Hanna

 

 

Mbhpway, Ky.—Leaning back in his chair, hands clasped
behind his head, Ben P. Walden, ’53, is scanning the ceiling of
his office in search of just the right word. But the word is simply

not there, and won’t be, no matter how long or hard he studies |

the ceiling.

Walden is attempting to describe that special feeling that has
kept him going for the past 30 or so years. He has no trouble find-
ing the right words to explain in rich detail the events that produc-
ed that feeling. Then words fail.

Flashback to April 21, 1984. The seventh race at Keeneland,
the Lexington, Ky., Thoroughbred race track, is the $100,000
Ashland Stakes, a mile and a quarter race for three-year-old fillies.

Walden remembers as if it were yesterday: Enumerating, wear-
ing the brown and black silks of Dearborn Farm, breaks from the
gate to take an early lead over her favored rivals Miss Oceana and
Lucky Lucky Lucky. Midway on the second turn of the sloppy
track, Enumerating surrenders the lead to Miss Oceana, who runs
in front by two lengths. But Enumerating recovers, closes, catches
Miss Oceana in the final strides, and wins.

“*It was,’’ Walden is saying now, ‘‘a very unusual race. Horses
don’t generally do what Enumerating did that day. People don’t
generally come back that way, either.’’

The feeling—that utterly indescribable sense of exhilaration—
was there for Ben Walden that day. Enumerating was Walden’s
horse; Dearborn is Walden’s farm.

*‘Seeing your horse, your horse, come barreling down the
stretch and catch the pace setter and draw off and win, well, it’s
something to feel,’’ Walden says. ‘‘It’s what keeps us all going
and takes us through some lean years, always in search of that feel-
ing again.”’

O. this day in mid-August, an early morning mist has enveloped
Dearborn Farm and clings to the 294 acres of rolling pasture that
are covered by a maze of brown fences. A knot of Thoroughbred
horses, tails swishing lazily, peers curiously over the fence that
borders a long, tree-lined drive leading to the two-story stone house
and the adjoining office. It is a scene straight off a picture postcard.
Greetings from Kentucky horse country.

Dearborn Farm has been in Ben Walden’s family since 1820.
He is the sixth generation to live here. He is the first generation
to raise horses here but is a second generation horseman, his father
having bred, raised, and raced horses at nearby Shadowlawn Farm.
And now one of Walden’s two sons, Elliott, the next generation,
trains the horses that run under the Dearborn Farm colors. Directly
across the road from Dearborn is Vinery Farms, a Thoroughbred
breeding operation that closely parallels Dearborn; Vinery is run
by Walden’s other son, Ben Jr.

Ben Walden’s father, Julian, was a farmer for whom
Thoroughbred race horses represented a convenient spare crop.
Actually, the primary crop at Walden’s Shadowlawn Farm was
bluegrass seed, which, despite its identification with Kentucky, is
no longer produced in that state.

As Ben Walden explains it, most of the horsemen whose farms
dot the landscape of this community just a few furlongs from Lex-
ington got started just the way his father did, raising a few
Thoroughbreds on the side.

‘“‘About the time I was at Washington and Lee, my father was
becoming very successful with a low profile breeding program,”’
Walden says. ‘“He won a bunch of races at one point in the late
’40s and early ’50s. Horses that he owned won 11 consecutive starts
at places like Monmouth Park in Atlantic City. That’s quite a feat,
given the fact that he got into the business with $50 and $200 mares
when racing was dark during World War II.’’

By the time he had graduated from Washington and Lee and
actually for some years before that, Walden knew he would even-
tually return to Kentucky and devote himself to fulltime manage-
ment of the Thoroughbreds there.

“*T knew exactly what I wanted to do,’’ Walden says. ‘‘I didn’t
have much knowledge of how to do it, though. Very few of us
who are in this business entered it as trained horsemen, unless our
fathers before us were horsemen. My father wasn’t really, so it
was something I had to work my way through.”’

Walden’s Washington and Lee coursework was heavy on the
liberal arts, English in particular—hardly the sort of preparation
you would expect for someone whose daily challenges included
ministering to a sick foal or deciding which sire to mate with a
particular broodmare.

It took Walden 10 to 15 years before he felt he had arrived
as a breeder of Thoroughbreds. And though Dearborn is a modest
operation compared with some of the larger farms, Walden and
Dearborn Farm have made a mark in the industry in a number
of ways. Walden will be president of the Thoroughbred Club of
America next year, having previously been president of the Ken-
tucky Thoroughbred Breeders Association.

In 1983 one of Walden’s yearlings, a filly named Alydar’s Gift,
brought a record price of $735,000 at the Keeneland September
yearling sale. That record still stands. And then, a year later, there
was Enumerating’s victory in the Ashland Stakes. And those are
only two of the triumphs Walden has enjoyed on the track and
in the sales ring. |

‘*I’d like to say that my successes were based on the fact that
I’m more a student of this game than my peers, but I don’t believe
that to be fact,’’ Walden says. ‘‘I think I’ve been fortunate in how
many of the good things have happened to me.’’

As an example of such good fortune, Walden cites the case of
a filly that he had entered in a salé for two-year-olds in Miami
several years ago. The night before the sale, the horse suffered a
relapse of a virus and had to be withdrawn. So rather than sell
the filly, Walden kept her and raced her himself. He named her
Enumerating. She won the Ashland Stakes.

And before Enumerating there had been a filly named Unac-
companied who fractured a hock as a weanling. Rather than put
damaged goods on the market, Walden kept Unaccompanied, too,
and she won six of seven lifetime starts, including three consecutive
stakes races.

Notwithstanding Walden’s recitation of those and several other
twists of fate that landed him in the winner’s circle, there can be
no doubt that it takes more than luck to survive in the business
of breeding Thoroughbred racehorses. And, rest assured, it is a
business. A big business.

Yet, it is sport, too. The line between those two components
of the horse industry—the business part and the sporting part—is
often blurred, particularly for someone with competitive instincts
like Walden’s. |

“*T’ve mellowed a bit in the last few years, and I’m sort of laid
back,’’ he says. ‘“‘But you can’t race horses without being com-
petitive. The object is to win. Or if you can’t win, place.’’

Walden’s competitiveness was, in fact, a primary reason he
wound up at Washington and Lee in the first place. As a member
of the Woodberry Forest School’s basketball team, he had caught
the eye of Carl Wise, then head basketball coach at W&L. At Wise’s
invitation, Walden came to the campus for an interview, liked what
he found, and enrolled. He played basketball all four years, log-
ging considerable playing time during his sophomore and junior
seasons and serving as captain of the squad his senior year.

Not surprisingly, some of his most vivid memories of

W&L

11

 

Washington and Lee center on basketball and particularly the
1951-52 season, his junior year, when the Generals played seven
of the top 13 teams in the country.

‘*‘It was a tough schedule for a team with seven or eight walk-
ons and Jay Handlan, who was half on scholarship and half on
the GI bill,’’ says Walden, referring to the W&L star who became
only the third player in history to score more than 2,000 points
in a college career.

One game that season particularly stands out in Walden’s
memory. It was against the University of Kentucky, the defending
national champion, and was played in Memorial Coliseum in Lex-
ington, Ky.

‘‘Somehow our coach, Scotty Hamilton, had managed to get
a film of a Kentucky game from (late Kentucky coach) Adolph
Rupp in order for us to scout them,’’ Walden recalls. ‘‘Scotty in-
formed me that I was going to guard Frank Ramsey, who later
went on to the Boston Celtics where he originated the sixth-man
concept.

‘*After he had viewed the movies, Scotty Hamilton informed
me that Frank Ramsey could not go to his left, and therefore I
was to play him accordingly. When the smoke had cleared in
Memorial Coliseum that night, well, it hadn’t even cleared because
Ramsey had scored enough before halftime that Kentucky’s reserves
were playing. He scored most of his points going to his left.’’

Kentucky won that game 96-46, but the lopsided margin did
not diminish the pride Walden felt in playing against the vaunted
Wildcats in front of his home folks. ‘‘Even now I look back on
that experience with some pleasure,”’’ he says, readily acknowledg-
ing that the game of basketball has changed so much in the past
30 years that ‘‘I really don’t think today I could make a legitimate
fraternity team.”’

If the competitive instincts of his athletic career at W&L (he
played varsity baseball, too) have contributed in some way to his
success as a horse breeder, Walden suggests that many of the other
lessons he learned at W&L have proved invaluable to him.

A good many of those lessons were learned ‘outside the
classroom—during fraternity rush week, for instance.

‘‘T have always thought that the rush week experience probably
helped me in my professional life as much as any single experience,”’
says Walden, a Phi Delta Theta. ‘‘There was the challenge of bon-
ing up on the incoming freshmen and their hometowns and their
interests and then being able to converse with them and call them
by name at the rush party. You were selling yourself and your
fraternity to them. There is a real parallel between that and the
commercial horse business where we read for years a person’s name
and the horses he has raced and his trainer and the breeding of
his various horses. Then we meet that person at a sale, and it is
a lot of help to have had that training to correlate the name and
the face and to draw them out.’’

Too, he credits some of his success to the lasting impact of both
the speaking tradition on the campus and the Honor System. ‘‘I
think the concept of being honorable in all my business dealings,
on the one hand, and being friendly and outgoing to all the peo-
ple I meet are things that I can trace directly to W&L.”’

till and all, when it came time to learn the ins and outs of the
horse business, Walden had to go it alone. He quickly discovered
that there is no magic formula. And he, like all horse breeders,
faces serious odds once you consider the estimates that only three
percent of all Thoroughbreds ever win a race and that only one
in 10 earns its keep, which can be as much as $25,000 a year.

*“We don’t know what we’re doing,’’ Walden says, grinning.
“We have a saying that Mrs. Sullivan had 11 sons and only one

12 W&L

John L. Full brothers and sisters don’t often yield the desired
results.”’

There are, however, some obvious rules of thumb. Walden says
the first thing he tries to do is breed for an attractive, athletic, and
basically correct physical type, out of a mare whose foals historical-
ly get to the races and win races after they get there.

And even if you follow that basic rule, it is impossible to say
whether the match is right until the horse actually races. Breeding
horses is a long-term proposition, explains Walden. It begins when
you select and buy a mare. Then you try to find an appropriate
mate that complements the mare genetically and physically. Recent-
ly the horse breeding industry has been invaded by the computer.
Many agencies promote the use of computers to make the right
match. Walden has resisted that trend.

‘‘T would guess the computer has some value,’’ he says,
‘‘generally along the lines that you may have a mare by a certain
sire and the computer may tell you that mares by that sire have
had four good horses by a specific sire. Generally, though, you’ ll
know all that anyway if you’re in the business on a day-to-day
basis.’

There is no computer terminal on Walden’s desk. Instead, there
are stacks and stacks of the Daily Racing Form and Thoroughbred
Record and The Blood-Horse. Lining the walls are bookcases load-
ed with thick volumes titled American Racing Manual and
Thoroughbred Broodmare Records. ‘‘! really wonder how much
good the computer does, if you’re qualified,’’ says Walden. ‘‘I
think that the computer is aimed at the neophytes and gives them
a reason for trying a certain mating, whereas otherwise they may
think they’re floundering. I think they’ll still be floundering but
maybe they sleep better at night.’’

At any rate, suppose the match between the mare and the sire
is made in, say, April 1987. The foal will arrive (‘‘hopefully in one
piece,’’ warns Walden) in March of 1988. Then if you’re lucky,
the yearling can be presented at auction in July or September of
1989. Or, if you choose to keep the yearling and race it yourself,
the earliest you would get your horse to the track would be the
late summer or early fall of 1990. More probably, you would race
the Thoroughbred as a three-year-old in 1991.

‘*The timetable is pretty well strung out,’’ says Walden. ‘‘If
you’re breeding for the commercial market, you’re going to need
a lot of foresight and an even greater share of luck to have a com-
mercially viable horse three years after you commit. I’m sure there
are industries where it takes that long to get a car in production
or a medicine developed and past federal agencies, but we have
an industry that takes a long time as well.’’

Walden has been content over the years to prepare his horses
almost entirely for the non-select September sale at Keeneland
rather than for the July selected sale where the bidding routinely
goes into the millions for individual horses.

Aiming for the September sale rather than the more well-known
July sale is, in part, a strategic marketing move since Walden’s
crop of yearlings will be competing against other crops whose top
horses were already sold in July. ‘‘My horses will have to look better
in comparison,’’ he says.

But the September sale also offers Walden a chance to bring
his yearlings along a little further, to let them vine ripen rather
than hothouse them as he explains. ‘‘Humphrey Finney, a renown-
ed horseman, once told me that the Thoroughbred horse is the only
agricultural commodity whose owner insists on marketing it before
it is ripe. And he thought the Thoroughbred horse did not ripen
until September.”’

Most of the attention, from the general public at least, is focus-
ed on the July sales, especially given the astonishing levels to which

 

 

prices have soared in recent years. Witness the 1985 July selected
yearling sale at Keeneland when a colt named Seattle Dancer was
sold for a record $13.1 million. Or the previous year when the 323
yearlings sold at Keeneland brought a total of almost $176 million
or $544,681 per horse.

That is all beginning to change, says Walden. And he thinks
the change is for the better. In Walden’s opinion, the market had
reached an unhealthy level and is beginning to experience a
downward adjustment.

‘‘We had people wandering in off the street, Main Street as
well as Wall Street, and investing heavily leveraged dollars into
this business,’’ he says. ‘‘People thought there was no end to the
profitability of it, and it attracted a lot of fast buck artists—high-
powered fast buck artists. But we’re seeing signs of change in which
the top of the market has come down quite a bit. I think the bot-
tom will come up some and the middle particularly will be strong.

‘*This plus lowering of interest rates will hopefully get some
people back in the market who had been on the sidelines recently
while the big money people drove the prices up. I think the ad-
justment will sink us down to the level where a yearling will go
for $50,000 to $100,000, rather than the millions. When people
pay $100,000 for a horse, that’s a lot of money and they deserve
to come out on it. They are not going to come out too often on
a horse that they’ve given $1 million for. At least, the odds are
against it.

**T look at the adjustment as a healthy thing for those of us
who are well grounded in the business and have traditionally
operated on a fairly conservative basis. We’re not out on a limb
as most of the newcomers are or have been. When you’ve been
in the business as long as I have with a family farm, it gives you
a different perspective. It isn’t something you’re in purely for prof-
it. It’s a labor of love.”’

unshine is peeking through the mist as Walden takes a brief
tour of one of his yearling barns, where a dozen nameless horses
are in the final stages of being prepared for the upcoming sales.
On the front of each stall is a small chalkboard bearing the names
of the mare and the sire, the critical means of identification at this

September sale.

point. ‘‘We don’t name the yearlings. That pleasure is left to the
buyers. They ought to get the chance to name their horse after Aunt
Agatha or Uncle Fred,’’ says Walden as he keeps up a running
commentary on each of the yearlings from the colt who had a cen-
tral nervous system disorder that has been discovered and suc-
cessfully treated to the feisty filly who had recently leaped a fence
and raced down the road.

The thing about the horse business, Walden is saying, is that
it’s never dull. ‘‘Often painful, but never dull.’’ Earlier in the sum-
mer he was vacationing on a sailboat in Maine. He called back
to Kentucky on a ship-to-shore hookup and was told that a three-
year-old filly, who was back at Dearborn for a two week vacation
from a summer of racing on tracks in the midwest, had tried to
jump a fence and left most of her left foreleg dangling on top of
the fence.

So along with the good luck can come the bad. But still he keeps
looking for that special, indescribable feeling. And wonders, sub-
consciously at least, what that feeling might be like on the first
Saturday in May just down the road at Louisville’s Churchill
Downs where they run a race called the Kentucky Derby.

**You think about that, sure,’’ says Walden. ‘‘I have had horses
nominated for the Triple Crown series and the Derby, as have most
of the people in this business, but I’ve not yet had a starter.’’

Although the most promising three-year-olds can be nominated
to run in the Triple Crown races—the Derby, Preakness, and Bel-
mont Stakes—only those who have displayed genuine champion-
ship form on the track finally make it to the starting gate, largely
because of the steep entry fees ($20,200 for the Derby) for those
three events.

‘I’ve wondered if I were to come up with a colt of my own
that showed the potential for the Derby whether I’d even nominate
him for the reason that it takes a tremendous toll on young horses
at a very early stage in their careers.”’

Walden pauses, gazes at the pasture where a lone yearling is
gamboling, and concludes: ‘‘I probably would do like everybody
else, though, I’d go ahead and nominate him. And if I nominated
him, even though I know deep down I shouldn’t, I know I would
run him in the Derby.”’

W&L

Walden examines one of the
yearlings that was in the final
stages of preparation for a

13

 

Members of the Class of 1990 wasted little time getting to know one another during the early days of orientation week.

Year [wo

Class of °90’s Entrance
Is Business As Usual

W...: difference does a year make?

Consider this: not a single television crew showed up to chroni-
cle the arrival of Washington and Lee’s Class of 1990 in September.

Anyone who was on the W&L campus one year ago when the
University’s first coeducational undergraduate class made its en-
trance would have been struck by the comparative calm and utter
normalcy that characterized this year’s orientation.

Even the weather was different—pleasantly so. Last September
the freshmen reported in the middle of a heat wave; temperatures
reached almost 100 degrees and made the suitcase-laden treks up
dormitory steps unbearable for the students (not to mention the
parents). So in addition to being calmer, moving-in day was much
cooler for the Class of ’90.

That is not to suggest that there were not problems. In this case,
the major inconvenience resulted from construction on the new
Gaines Residence Hall. The installation of steam lines to Gaines
forced the closing of Washington Street near Warner Center, in
effect creating a cul-de-sac which produced a massive traffic jam—
massive by Lexington standards, anyway.

But once they found a parking place, parents were able to help

Two freshmen play catch on the Front Lawn. their sons and daughters settle into their dormitory rooms without

14 W&L

 

 

 

Orientation activities varied from rappelling off the footbridge (left) to meeting with advisers such as English professor Jim Warren (right).

having to run a gauntlet of microphones and reporters’ notebooks
this year. The freshmen could even unpack their belongings without
answering reporters’ questions or having photographers document-
ing the occasion. (A year ago one entering student was actually
asked to repack her suitcases and then unpack a second time for
the benefit of the camera.)

All in all, the atmosphere for the start of year two of
undergraduate coeducation was ‘‘business as usual.’’ In fact, Jenny
Bray, a sophomore dormitory counselor who had endured the
media hype of ’85, allowed that she had overheard a freshman ask
how long Washington and Lee had been coed—a rather dramatic
indication of how things have changed.

Based on the first few days of their tenure on the campus, Bray
said that she thinks the 401 members (287 men, 114 women) of
the class of 1990 seem to be ‘‘more together’’ than last year’s
freshmen.

**Last year we took a couple of days to get adjusted,’’ said Bray.
“This year they’re together. The first day there were groups of
students just sitting and talking. There were more frisbees and foot-
balls in the quad than I remember from last year.”’

Meantime, Shayam Menon, the Executive Committee president
from Ranson, W.Va., observed that the absence of the media made
things easier for everyone this year.

**The attention we received last year was good,’’ Menon said,
“‘but I’m glad they (the media) weren’t here this year.’’

Menon said that many of this year’s orientation activities placed
greater emphasis on the University’s traditions.

‘*We wanted the freshmen to be aware of the traditions that
have made Washington and Lee unique,’’ Menon said, referring
in particular to the Honor System and the friendliness of the cam-
pus. ‘‘As we continue to grow, we want to keep our traditions in
mind. If we ever lose those traditions, then Washington and Lee
will be just another small college.’’

In terms of tradition, the Class of 1990 has one distinction:
the largest number of alumni children ever in a single class. There
are 58 legacies—40 men and 18 women.

' Two new programs for special constituencies were added to this
year’s orientation schedule. One of those programs was designed
for the foreign and minority students who were invited to the cam-
pus four days ahead of the other freshmen and participated in a
series of meetings with faculty, administrators, and upperclass
students and seminars on academic and student life aspects of their
college careers.

The other addition to orientation was a meeting for new women
students at which a number of sophomore women discussed topics
of special interest, including women’s health issues, how to find
off-campus housing, and the future of sororities at W&L.

**We felt that, by and large, the first year in the transition pro-
cess went quite smoothly, and consequently we did not make any
major changes,’’ said Lewis G. John, dean of students. ‘‘My sense
of the first few days of this academic year is that things could not
be much more routine than they’ve been.’’

Not everything is routine, however. Even before the Class of
1990 had reported, the Office of Admissions had already begun
processing applications for the Class of 1991.

As of Sept. 11, 173 applications had been received. By way of
comparison, the University did not reach that number of applica-
tions until Nov. 18 last year. Moreover, the admissions staff con-
ducted 735 on-campus interviews during the summer compared with
562 last year and 408 in 1984.

William Hartog, director of admissions, said the number of
early applications is amazing.

“*! have learned over the years to be cautious about early
trends,’’ said Hartog, ‘‘but I still can’t find anything negative in
this display of W&L’s apparent popularity among young people
nationwide.”’

W&L 15

 

 

EEE a

| ROT pe :
BERANE IN BREAKIN
£45,000 A HOME
LOAN ROW S*.°°,""

mpd a & RES
we r Rackoat

 

But Is It Free?

 

A critical examination of the British press

 

Because so many of our democratic in-
stitutions and traditions originated in English
law, we Often believe that by examining the
British systems we can find eternal truths
about both our government institutions and
the preservation of the freedoms we cherish.

Although there is much to be learned
from the study of British government, British
traditions, and the British press, I have been
disabused of the notion that the British way
is necessarily the right, or even the best, way.

This is particularly true of the laws, prac-
tices, and traditions that affect the British
press today. On the one hand, the British
press is largely free to criticize the actions of
the government and its officials. On the other
hand, British reporters have no effective
means of obtaining accurate information
about routine government decisions—
information that would be immediately
available to reporters in the United States,
no matter which level of government they are
examining, from city hall to federal agencies.

 

Clark R. Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize-winning
Journalist, spent the fall semester of 1985-86 on
a sabbatical at University College in Oxford. This
article is adapted from a lecture Mollenhoff
presented on the W&L campus last winter.

16 W&L

by Clark R. Mollenhoff

Professor of Journalism

Freedom to criticize is not real freedom
when there is no access to information essen-
tial to responsible, effective criticism.

In the United States there exists the
presumption that almost all government
records (with a few exceptions for reasons
of national security and personal privacy) are
public and can be read, reviewed, and copied
by any citizen. In England, there is a
presumption, with laws to back it up, that
the actions of government and the records
in government files are not public unless a
law clearly states that they are public.

The British are obsessed with secrecy.
This obsession permeates the society and
manifests itself most clearly in the ad-
ministration and enforcement of the British
Official Secrets Act. The law was written to
protect national security secrets, but over the
years various governments—labour as well
as conservative—have used the act to cover
up any information about the government
that has not been made public.

Because of the barriers they encounter,
I developed considerable admiration for a
few reporters and editors in the so-called
‘‘quality press’’ in England. Too, I
developed more than a little understanding

of why the so-called ‘‘popular press’’—the
British tabloids—are the sensation-seeking,
sex-ridden sheets they are.

I have nothing but sympathy for the
reporters and editors who must bear the in-
tolerable burden of fulfilling the watchdog
role in the English system. Most reporters
and editors in England, Scotland, and
Ireland are better schooled in the law of the
press than are their American counterparts.
They must be knowledgeable of the details
and nuances of dozens of laws and traditions
under which they can be imprisoned for
crimes or contempt of court.

By virtue of their almost total protection
under the First Amendment, U.S. reporters
assume they can get by with any story, no
matter how false or careless. As long as the
story falls short of willful falsification, U.S.
reporters are usually safe from prosecution.
Their British counterparts do not have the
same protection.

Overall, the ‘‘quality press’’ in
England—The Times, The Observer, The
Guardian, The Telegraph—is probably as
thoughtful as and more responsible than the
best American newspapers. The British
‘‘nopular press,’’ however, is dominated by

 

scandal sheets that consistently sink to the
level of the National Inquirer and the other
supermarket tabloids.

The worst and the best of the British
press can be found in the publications of one
man, international press baron Rupert Mur-
dock. Murdock publishes both the venerable
Times of London, which remains one of the
great newspapers of the world, and the
scandal-mongering Sun, which features a
photograph of a nude woman on its third
page each day and regularly reports tasteless
stories of sex and violence. If the debauchery
is kinky enough or the crime wanton enough,
the Sun and similar papers can bring momen-
tary celebrity to a waitress, a coal miner, or
someone who has spent a life on the dole.
If the scandal happens to involve lords and
ladies or members of the Royal Family, so
much the better as far as the popular press
is concerned.

‘‘Randy Andy’’ is blazed in tabloid
headlines when these papers report any ques-
tionable social activities of Prince Andrew.
‘“The Queen Eats a Rat,’’ The Mirror pro-
claimed in two-inch high letters on page one
when Queen Elizabeth was served a wild gib-
nut at a South American state dinner. The
gibnut is in fact a rodent, but it also hap-
pens to be considered a delicacy in the South
American country of Belize. Yet, The Mir-
ror called it a ‘‘roasted rat’’ and found the
menu worthy of page one treatment.

It was also The Mirror that reportedly
paid 100,000 pounds sterling to publish ex-
cerpts from a book by Sara Keays, the
former mistress of Tory minister Cecil
Parkinson. Ms. Keays’s pregnancy by
Parkinson had caused his sudden resignation
from Mrs. Thatcher’s cabinet in November
1983. The Mirror’s exclusive series on Ms.
Keays’s 12-year affair with Parkinson and
the birth of their daughter was published the
week before the Conservative Party’s con-
ference last fall. Needless to say, it drew
public attention away from the more serious
problems of the Tory conference and
destroyed any possibility that Mrs. Thatcher
would consider restoring Parkinson to a
significant position in the Tory government.

In her book A Matter of Judgement,
Sara Keays noted that some of her conver-
sations with Cabinet Minister Parkinson in-
volved the Falklands War and other Cabinet
matters. The press and the Labour and
Alliance Party politicians raised the same
question: Did Parkinson violate the British
Official Secrets Act during his pillow talks
with Mistress Sara? Mrs. Thatcher’s Tory
Party determined that Parkinson had made
no disclosure to Ms. Keays that warranted
even a serious investigation of whether a

crime had been committed under the Of-:

 

ficial Secrets Act. .

The British press does, then, include
much that is laudatory, and much that is
ludicrous, not to mention the lewd and
lascivious. But the more pressing question is
this: ‘‘Is it free?’’

L Britain, the press and the opposition par-
ties have no effective leverage for forcing an
Open inquiry of any depth. Watergate would
have been buried under the British
Parliamentary system. This past year’s in-
vestigations of the Challenger disaster would
probably have been left entirely in the hands
of NASA, and the opposition parties would
have been powerless to create a forum for
an oversight investigation.

During my two terms at University Col-
lege, Oxford, I spent a good deal of time in-
terviewing people who are knowledgeable
about the power and problems of the British
press.

One of the cases I examined is particular-
ly relevant in demonstrating the abuse and
misuse of the British Official Secrets Act for
the criminal prosecution of civil servants who
blow the whistle on government wrongdoing.
It involves the Clive Ponting affair.

Clive Ponting was a high-ranking civil
servant in the Defense Ministry who disclos-
ed an important set of documents to a
member of Parliament. These documents
demonstrated that Defense Minister Michael
Heseltine had given false statements to the
Parliament committee that was investigating
the sinking of the Argentinian cruiser the
General Belgrano during the Falkland
Islands War.

The documents showed that this was not
a casual misrepresentation but a carefully
planned and willful falsification by Minister
Heseltine. Ponting believed that the chair-
man of the foreign affairs investigating com-
mittee would be outraged at the false
testimony and eager to bring the liars to
justice.

Instead, the chairman immediately turn-
ed the documents over to the Defense
Ministry. Minister Heseltine launched an in-
vestigation that resulted in the firing, indict-
ment, and prosecution of Ponting on charges
he violated the British Official Secrets Act.

In prosecuting Ponting, the government
conceded that there was no violation of na-
tional security and no improper disclosure
to the press or others outside of the govern-

ment. The prosecution argued that a
disclosure of truth to the investigating com-
mittee of Parliament was a violation of the
Act.

At the conclusion of the evidence, Mr.
Justice McCowan essentially instructed the
Old Bailey court jury to convict Ponting.
Despite the judge’s long speech, the jury
came back after one of the shortest delibera-
tions possible with a verdict of ‘‘not guilty.”’

The judge and the government were
stunned; Ponting and his supporters were
ecstatic. The verdict established that British
juries could disregard the prodding of the
government witnesses and the admonitions
of the court and hold that the truth is a
defense, even in England.

But Clive Ponting’s acquittal does not en-
sure that the current British government, or
future British governments, will not abuse
and misuse the British Official Secrets Act
in many more equally absurd situations
where it is acknowledged that national securi-
ty has not been jeopardized.

The outcome of the Ponting case not-
withstanding, the right to criticize is sharply
reduced when the press and the public as well
as the political opposition have limited public
sources of reliable information upon which
to base their criticism. The government in
England is in the enviable position of being
able to tell the press: ‘“You would agree with
us if you knew all the things we know, but
we will not make that information available
because you might distort it into something
it isn’t.’

A. insuperable as the obstacles denying
access to government documents are the bar-
riers surrounding the courts.

Because the British believe that in-
dividuals should have as wide a range of
freedom as possible, Penthouse, Playboy,
and comparable English, French, Italian,
and Danish magazines circulate on
newsstands without police interference or
citizen complaints. And yet, police seized and
censored copies of U.S. news magazines that

W&L 17

 

 

carried factually accurate accounts of the
famous Yorkshire Ripper case—accounts
that technically breached the restrictive
Criminal Justice Act of 1967. That act bars
journalists from reporting about the dress of
defendants, their attitude or demeanor in
court, or repetition of details of the crimes
with which they are charged.

The British Parliament passed the
Criminal Justice Act with the laudable
motivation of assuring a fair trial to defen-
dants. Under this act, all publications are
limited to nine specific points that they are
permitted to report from the time a defen-
dant is charged. These points include name,
age, address, occupation, crime charged,
name of the court, names of the attorneys,
the plea, and the bail. A publication that
reports anything beyond these points is sub-
ject to contempt.

The Yorkshire Ripper had created terror
in Yorkshire and Lancaster counties over a
period of more than five years by murder-
ing 13 women and attempting to kill seven
Others. When Peter William Sutcliffe, a
35-year-old lorry driver, was arrested on Jan.
2, 1981, the press went wild with illegal and
unethical conduct that has since been the
subject of a 198-page report by the British
Press Council, a journalism watchdog
organization.

The British tabloids went to work with
checkbook journalism and bought exclusive
stories from friends and relatives of the
murdered women and from members of
Peter Sutcliffe’s immediate family, including
his wife, his father, and his brother, and
from the prostitute he was with at the time
of his arrest. The abuses were so widespread
that it would have been virtually impossible
to have prosecuted all the reporters and
editors who printed inflammatory informa-
tion about Sutcliffe.

The mother of one of Sutcliffe’s victims
complained to the Press Council that the
newspapers were paying large sums of money
to the murderer’s family for exclusive stories.
The persistence of this woman’s protests
finally drew a sympathetic note from Queen
Elizabeth, who expressed her ‘‘sense of
distaste’ that substantial sums were paid to
members of the Sutcliffe family.

Such conduct is used to justify the restric-
tions on court coverage under the Criminal
Justice Act and also under both the Race
Relations Act of 1976 and the Rehabilitation
of Offenders Act of 1974.

All of these relatively recent acts of
Parliament have made deep (and, I believe,
unjustifiable) inroads into the freedom of the
press to report factually what has transpired.
In the name of protecting the defendant’s
rights, a secrecy has been imposed that

18 W&L

makes it difficult or impossible for the press
to conduct any oversight on the administra-
tion of justice. Defendants could either be
railroaded or given unconscionable
favoritism behind this secrecy screen, which
can be enforced with tough contempt laws.

The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act
sharply restricts the circumstances under
which the press may refer to the public
criminal record of defendants after they have
served their prison term. The results of this
restriction are often ludicrous, even by
British standards. The British Race Relations
Act of 1976 included a provision that makes
it a criminal offense to distribute threaten-
ing, abusive, or insulting matter that is like-
ly to stir up hatred against any racial group.

According to the Essential Law for Jour-
nalists: ‘“The effect of this (Race Relations
Act) is that a newspaper and its staff, report-
ing an inflammatory speech or election
manifesto as that of an extremist politician,
or other expression of anti-immigrant prop-
aganda, or carrying an outspoken reader’s
letter, is as liable for prosecution as the per-
son who originally made the statement.’’

The imprecise language of the law is an
invitation for the British government to in-
stitute a criminal action at the discretion of
the attorney general when the story is par-
ticularly displeasing to an incumbent ad-
ministration. British attorneys generally have
been notorious for their lack of judgment in
exercising discretionary power. The Ponting
prosecution is a case in point.

In 1979, the European Court of Human
Rights upset a British court ruling against the
Sunday Times, which had been ruled in con-
tempt for a series on the dangers of the hor-
ribly deforming drug Thalidomide. Long
drawn-out litigation involving the manufac-
turer and distributor of Thalidomide was
pending in the civil courts. The Sunday
Times disregarded court orders on the theory
that the public should be warned of the in-
formation available on the drug. Even
though the contempt conviction was
ultimately overturned, the eight-year fight
cost the Sunday Times more than 20,000
pounds sterling, and the British government
reneged on an early agreement to pay all
costs in the event it lost the case.

T his represents only a capsule view of the
barrier to information in the British system.
Although I have always appreciated the
freedoms the American press enjoys, my ex-
perience in England made me realize how
unique those freedoms are in all the world.
We journalists have all the freedom we need,
provided we use that freedom wisely and
responsibly to monitor society and govern-
ment and to make government accountable.

When newsmen and newswomen are
careless, arrogant, malicious, or superficial,
they are abusing and misusing that freedom,
and giving ammunition to those in govern-
ment and others in our society who would
sharply curtail or abolish the freedom of the
press as we know it today. When we make
unreasonable demands in the name of our
First Amendment rights or when we are
highly partisan or ideological, we lose public
support. And when that happens, we are
finished. I believe that we have been losing
public support a little at a time over the
years. When the leading commentators ex-
press irresponsible attitudes about the report-
ing of information that has ‘‘national securi-
ty’’ implications, we set the stage for the
passage of laws comparable to the British Of-
ficial Secrets Act.

While I believe the U.S. Congress would
probably not pass legislation similar to the
British Official Secrets Act, we already have
many of the implications of that act cover-
ing our Defense Department in the form of
a directive signed by Defense Secretary
Caspar Weinberger in 1984. That directive
makes it a criminal law violation, subject to
a 10-year prison term and a $100,000 fine,
for any official to disclose non-security in-
formation related to technical information,
including cost data and the valuation of a
weapons system.

The implications of that directive are
enormous. If strictly administered and en-
forced, it could eliminate the exposure of the
cost data proving scandalous waste of
billions on worthless weapons systems as well
as the overpricing of spare parts.

The press has virtually ignored this threat
to government accountability or has dealt
with the Weinberger directive in only a super-
ficial fashion. Through such superficiality,
the press has been driving nails in its own
coffin. The recent experiences of misuse or
abuse of the British Official Secrets Act
should be adequate warning to those who
have a serious thoughtful concern for press
freedom in the United States.

Weinberger’s ‘‘official secrets directive’’
is a far more crucial issue than whether televi-
sion cameras are allowed in courtrooms or
even on the front line of military assault
landings. If, for instance, we simply demand
that the Defense Department be accountable
to congressional oversight committees (and,
eventually, to the press and the public) on
the real costs of spare parts or on the real
valuations of weapons systems, we are on
issues the public understands. When,
however, the press abandons these matters
and raises a fuss over false or questionable
issues of press freedom, it becomes its own
worst enemy.

The W&L Gazette

 

University Enjoys Most Successful Annual Fund Ever

 

S ured by a record-setting annual fund
and a large increase in capital gifts,
Washington and Lee had one of its best years
ever in gift support during 1985-86.

The University enjoyed a 33 percent in-
crease in total commitments for the fiscal
year that ended June 30. Total contributions
to the University jumped from $6,148,449 a
year ago to $8,286,257 this year.

James M. Ballengee, ’48L, rector of the
Washington and Lee Board of Trustees, call-
ed the campaign ‘‘a splendid effort.”’

‘‘This outstanding year of gift support
reflects the widespread acceptance and ap-
preciation of the importance and excellence
of this unique institution,’’ said Ballengee.

The performance of the Annual Fund,
which provides a significant portion of the
University’s operating budget, was par-
ticularly gratifying. The Annual Fund had
an increase of 13 percent, finishing with a
total of $1,502,901 in gifts compared with
$1,334,128 a year ago and establishing record
levels in virtually every category.

In addition to the jump in total gifts, the
Annual Fund had an 11 percent increase in
the number of donors—6,621 this year as op-
posed to 5,989 a year ago. The total number
of alumni who contributed was up by 622 to
6,192 and the amount of alumni contribu-
tions was up $142,849 over last year to
$1,392,268.

Contributions by the Lee Associates, who
donate $1,000 or more, were up by seven per-
cent to $789,834 with the number of Lee
Associates at 445, an increase of 57 over last
year.

Gifts from members of the Colonnade
Club, who contribute between $100 and
$999, increased 52 percent to $662,577, up
$71,730 from last year.

The average gift to the Annual Fund was
$227.

*“With the exception of two years when
we received unprecedented major capital
gifts and the final year of our development
campaign (1981), this is the biggest year that
we have ever had,’’ said Farris Hotchkiss,
’58, director of development and University
relations.

The chairman of the Annual Fund was
James W. Jennings Jr., °65, ’72L, of

 

 

 

the campus.

From helicopters’
to rooftops:
“new pictorial book
captures campus

é Photographer Strode

H. leaned out of a helicopter hovering over Washington Hall. He climbed around
on the roofs of almost every University building. He even climbed a tree or two on

And all the while Bill Strode kept snapping away, capturing Washington and Lee
on film for a forthcoming pictorial book on the University.

A Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer whose assignments have taken him around
the world for publications such as National Geographic, Time, and Life, Strode pro-
duced a truly breathtaking series of color photographs for the book that is part of
the American College Series by Harmony House Publishers of Louisville, Ky.

An advertisement for that book appears on the back cover of this magazine, ac-

companied by two of Strode’s photographs. All W&L alumni will be offered the large,
case-bound ‘‘coffee table’? volume by direct mail in October and November, and
plans are underway to have the book available in bookstores throughout Virginia

and the South by early December.

 

In addition to Strode’s photography, the book will feature an introduction by
Sidney M. B. Coulling, the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of English, and a collec-
tion of rare old photographs from the University’s archives.

 

Roanoke. Jennings is serving in the same
capacity again in 1986-87. The capital gifts
portion of the campaign was headed by
Trustee S L Kopald, ’43, of Memphis.

New Graves Scholarship

A scholarship has been established in the
School of Law in honor of the late Edward
S. Graves, 30, a Lynchburg attorney who
served as adjunct professor of law at W&L
from 1948 until his death in 1985.

The Edward S. Graves Honor Scholar-
ship will be awarded annually to an outstand-

ing entering law student, who will normally
hold it for three years of law study. It car-
ries an annual $10,000 stipend.

*‘Our greatest need at this point is for
more attractive scholarships,’’ said Frederic
L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the School of Law.
‘*The generosity of Edward S. Graves and
his family and friends has taken us a long
step toward meeting that need. We are most
grateful to the many generous contributors
who made this honor scholarship possible.’’

The scholarship was created through a
bequest from the Graves estate and from
contributions from the Graves family,

W&L 19

 

 

friends of Graves, W&L alumni, former law
associates, and other colleagues.

Graves earned his B.A. from W&L in
1930 and then received a master’s degree
from the University the following year. He
earned the LL.B. at Harvard in 1935.

A partner in the Lynchburg firm of Ed-
munds and Williams, Graves was a member
of the Lynchburg, the Virginia, and the
American bar associations, the Association
of the Bar of the City of New York, the In-
ternational Bar Association, and the Inter-
American Bar Association. He was co-
author of Virginia Civil Procedures and had
contributed articles to the Washington and
Lee Law Review.

While practicing with Edmunds and
Williams, Graves began teaching at the law
school in 1948. He was a lecturer on domestic
relations and legal drafting for many years,
serving as visiting lecturer until 1976 when
he became adjunct professor of law.

A popular figure with students and col-
leagues, Graves seemed always to find time
for consultation with students despite his
full-time practice and his teaching
responsibilities.

‘‘Edward was absolutely dedicated to
Washington and Lee. He gave most of his
adult life to its service,’’ said Lynchburg at-
torney Robert C. Wood, ’62, chairman of
the Graves scholarship committee. ‘‘We are
absolutely delighted that Edward’s friends,
students, and colleagues have established this
scholarship in his honor.’’

The Graves Scholarship is one of three
honor scholarships in the School of Law.
The others are the Thomas Fuller Torrey
Scholarship and the Ross C. Malone
Scholarship.

Palmer assistant law dean

M. Susan Palmer, a 1985 graduate of the
Washington and Lee University School of
Law, has been named assistant dean of the
W&L law school.

Palmer replaces M. Patricia Walther,
°83L, who became admissions director for
the University of North Carolina’s law
school.

In her capacity as assistant dean, Palmer
will be in charge of recruitment and admis-
sions and will also be involved in student
counseling, financial aid work, and design-
ing programs for pre-law advisors.

Palmer is a 1982 graduate of Mary
Baldwin College. At W&L, she was elected
to the Order of the Coif and Omicron Delta
Kappa and served as editor in chief of the
Washington and Lee Law Review.

After receiving her law degree, Palmer
was a clerk for Judge Ellsworth A. Van

20 W&L

 

Susan Palmer

Graafeiland of the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Rochester, N.Y.

She is married to Thomas Howell, ’85L,
who is an attorney in Harrisonburg, Va.

Law school diversity

In the face of figures that indicate a con-
tinuing decline in law school applications na-
tionally, Washington and Lee’s School of
Law enjoyed another successful admissions
year, which produced 1,072 applications for
the 124 places in the first-year class.

That figure represents a slight increase
over a year earlier when the law school
received 1,036 applications. Nationally, ap-
plications to law schools have fallen by 25
percent since 1982.

Asked about those trends in an interview
in the Roanoke Times and World-News in
August, Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of
W&L’s School of Law, suggested that the
national decline is, in part, the result of ‘‘an
impression that there is a glut of lawyers out
there, which is true.’’ But, Kirgis quickly
added, ‘‘There is no glut of good lawyers.”’

The increase in applications for the enter-
ing law class was not the only good news
since statistics showed that the 124 first-year
students brought with them higher median
grade-point averages and LSAT scores than
last year’s entering class.

All the numbers aside, the new W&L law
students display a wide diversity of
backgrounds and, in addition to recent col-
lege graduates, include among their ranks a
cardiac surgeon, a competitive ice skater, an
ordained Lutheran minister, a Washington
lobbyist, a computer programmer, a Marine
who was formerly with the multi-national
peacekeeping force in Beirut, a criminal in-

vestigator for the Internal Revenue Service,
and a cropduster.

The number of entering law students who
are changing careers has not changed
dramatically in the past several years, accord-
ing to Kirgis.

The first-year law students came from 28
different states, three foreign countries, and
80 different undergraduate institutions.

Admissions changes

In addition to the changes in the Office
of Admissions staff announced in the Ju-
ly/August issue of the Alumni Magazine,
Gay S. Steele, who had served as assistant
director of admissions, also left the staff.
Gay and her husband, Athornia, a visiting
professor of law, returned to Columbus,
Ohio, where he is on the faculty of the
Capital University law school.

Davis memorabilia

A collection of memorabilia associated
with the long and distinguished career of
John W. Davis, the Washington and Lee
graduate who ran for president in 1924, has
been presented to the University.

Davis’s daughter, Mrs. Julia Davis
Adams of Princeton, N.J., donated the col-
lection, which includes a variety of prints,
photographs, presidential proclamations,
drawings, plaques, and books collected by
Davis during his lifetime.

A West Virginia native, Davis received
his B.A. degree from Washington and Lee
in 1892 and earned his law degree from the
University in 1895. He served as a Con-
gressman from West Virginia and as Solicitor
General during the presidency of Woodrow
Wilson. In 1922 he turned down an appoint-
ment to the Supreme Court and two years
later he ran unsuccessfully for president
against Calvin Coolidge.

During his career, Davis argued 141 cases
before the Supreme Court, including the steel
seizure cases and Brown v. Board of
Education.

In accepting the Davis collection of
memorabilia, W&L President John D.
Wilson said: ‘‘There is no other graduate of
Washington and Lee and its School of Law
whose dimension of career and public ser-
vice exceeds that of John W. Davis. By prop-
er display of these family treasures, we can
assure that our students are reminded and
encouraged by the achievements of one who
preceded them here as a student.’’

The law school library also has Davis’s
papers in its collection, including briefs of
the cases that he argued. Davis Dormitory,
one of the three major buildings housing
W&L freshmen, is named in honor of Davis.

 

 

W&L receives grant
from duPont Fund

Washington and Lee has received a grant
of $50,000 from the Jessie Ball duPont
Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund
of Jacksonville, Fla. The grant will be used
for the purchase of equipment for the
University’s science departments.

*“We are once again deeply appreciative
for the duPont Fund’s generosity to
Washington and Lee,’’ said John W. Elrod,
dean of the College at W&L. ‘‘In recent
years, we have not been able to keep pace
with the science departments’ requests for
new instructional and research equipment.
This $50,000 gift will help immensely to cor-
rect this science equipment deficit.’’

The duPont Fund was established in Mrs.
duPont’s will and is designed for the philan-
thropic support of religious, charitable, and
educational activities, notably in higher
education.

A native of Northumberland County,
Va., Mrs. duPont was awarded an honorary
degree from Washington and Lee in 1947 in
recognition of her support of higher educa-
tion and her benefactions to W&L. She was
a Trustee of the University from 1959 until
her death in 1970. The duPont Scholarship
program, the duPont Professorship in
Religion, and duPont Hall, the University’s
fine arts building, are named in Mrs. du-
Pont’s honor.

New faculty announced

Nineteen new teachers joined the
Washington and Lee undergraduate faculty
this fall.

Two assistant professors and one adjunct
professor were named to the School of Law
faculty.

New teachers joining the undergraduate
faculty when classes began in September
were S. Wayne Back, visiting instructor in
romance languages; Carole Biewener,
visiting instructor in economics; Michael B.
Bishku, visiting assistant professor of
history; Patricia O’Brien Campbell, part-
time instructor in music; William F. Connelly
Jr., assistant professor of politics; Steven G.
Desjardins, assistant professor of chemistry;
Bert J. Dempsey III, visiting instructor in
mathematics; Molly C. Dempsey, visiting in-
structor in mathematics; Donald E. Lillie,
assistant professor of drama; Paul Carroll
Wilson, part-time assistant professor in
English; Katie Letcher Lyle, part-time in-
structor in English; Emily P. Miller, assis-
tant professor of English; Jeffrey P. Spike,
visiting professor of philosophy; Marvin J.
Stickley, instructor in physical education;

 

he
So a

Among new members of the W&L faculty are (seated, from left) Michael B. Bishku (history);

 

 

Michael J. Smitka (economics); Gwen T. Johnson (law); Katie Letcher Lyle (English); Emily P.
Miller (English); Bert J. Dempsey III (mathematics); (standing, from left) William F. Connelly
Jr. (politics); Jeffrey P. Spike (philosophy); Larry C. Peppers (economics); Capt. Karl H.
Wingard Jr. (military science); David K. Millon (law); Donald E. Lillie (drama); Erin Foley
(library); S. Wayne Back (romance languages); Carole Biewener (economics); Molly C. Dempsey

(mathematics).

Kenneth E. Van Ness, assistant professor of
physics and engineering; and Maj. Karl H.
Wingard Jr., assistant professor of military
science.

Gwen T. Johnson and David K. Millon
are assistant professors of law, and Beverly
S. Seng is a new adjunct professor of law.

Previously announced appointments
were Larry C. Peppers, dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics and
professor of economics; Michael J. Smitka,
instructor of economics; and William B.
Spong Jr., visiting professor of legal ethics.

Undergraduates participate
in Summer research

In opportunities rare among under-
graduates, eight Washington and Lee
students worked side by side with W&L pro-
fessors this summer, acquiring research skills
and laboratory experience normally available
only at the graduate level.

For approximately 10 weeks this summer,
one could wander into the laboratories on
campus and find students and professors
engrossed in the study of snails, rats, and in-
sects, while others were out in the fields dig-
ging for artifacts or studying area geological
formations.

All of the W&L students who par-
ticipated (two were recent June graduates)
were awarded grants that covered room and
board expenses as well as salaries. Seven of
the students received R. E. Lee Research
grants and one had a Leyburn Scholars
Research grant.

R. E. Lee grants were awarded to Joseph
Whelan, ’86, of Louisville; Debra Hurtt, ’89,
of Chestertown, Md.; Jodie Ringland, ’87,
of Princeton, N.J.; Chris Bowring, ’87, of
Rockbridge Baths, Va.; Andy McThenia,
°88, of Lexington, Va.; Jim Farquhar, ’87,
of Annapolis, Md.; and Guy Caldwell, ’86,
of West Caldwell, N.J.

Whelan -assisted Peter W. Bergstrom,
assistant professor of biology, on a popula-
tion genetic study of locally collected snails.

Hurtt and Ringland worked with
Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology, on Jarrard’s continuing research
on the brain’s hippocampus. The two
students’ responsibilities included caring for
the animals, testing the animals in learning
and memory tasks, and analyzing behavioral
and histological results.

Bowring, McThenia, and Farquhar
assisted Edgar W. Spencer, professor of
geology, on research involving the structure
and evolution of the Blue Ridge Mountains
in central Virginia. The results of their
research will be published in the Bulletin of
the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.

Caldwell worked with John J. Wielgus,

‘associate professor of biology, on the

research Wielgus has been conducting into
insect growth and development.

Jeffrey P. Blomster, ’87, of Emmaus,
Pa., was awarded a Leyburn Scholars
Research grant and worked under the direc-
tion of Kurt C. Russ, research archaeologist,
on continuing research, artifact analysis, and
site report preparation for the Liberty Hall
project.

W&L 21

 

 

W&L’s Summer Scholars

by Jack Chamberlain

Roanoke Times and World-News

D.. Cribbs of Palm Springs, Calif.,
said he missed the beaches and the girls
in bikinis, but he wouldn’t have missed
his four weeks at Washington and Lee
University this muggy, hot, dry summer
for anything.

“It’s really been terrific,” said the —
17-year-old honor student and National | |
Merit Scholarship semifinalist who will be —

a high school senior this fall.

_ Walter Parmer, 17, another honor _
student and athlete from Georgetown, _
S.C., said he would have been playing in ~
junior golf tournaments if he hadn’t been —
in W&L’s Summer Scholars program. |

A football and basketball player in
high school, Palmer said he tried tennis

for the first time at W&L while also tak-
ing classes in business and law.

“It’s great. The campus is beautiful,”’
he said. ‘‘It’s not like high school. They
teach us on the college level . . . The pro-
fessors are incredible. They know what
they’re talking about, but they’re not over
your head.”’

And that’s the idea of Summer
Scholars, W&L faculty and others involv-
ed in the program say—to give talented
and motivated rising high school seniors
a taste of college life, from the classroom
to the dormitory to the great outdoors.

Six years ago, W&L had to beat the
bushes to find 30 or 40 students for its
first Summer Scholars program.

‘“We accepted everybody,’’ said Rob
Fure, director of W&L’s summer
programs.

This year, the isivenity accepted
about half of some 350 high school ap-
plicants, hoping at least 100 would show
up—and 117 did, from 28 states and
Norway.

**It’s becoming a rather selective ad-
missions process,’’ said Fure.

The highest number—12—came from
Texas. Virginia was next with nine,
followed closely by California, Alabama,
and Louisiana with eight each.

The high school students not only
gave up most of their summer leisure
time, but most of them—or their
parents—paid $1,200 for the privilege.
But that was only $300 a week for room,
meals, and a full schedule of academic
class and outdoor activities.

 

This story is reprinted by permission from The
Roanoke Times and World-News.

 

Summer Scholars Missy Rankin, left, and
Celeste Payne in the laboratory

About 25 of the participants received
full or half scholarships to attend this
summer, depending on their financial
needs, Fure said.

The four-week program included a
parallel curriculum for qualified students
in premed, which was started last sum-
mer. Twenty-seven of the 117 students
were in the premed program this year.

Except for tougher admission stan-
dards and a requirement that premed
scholars take English, biology, and a third
course of their choice, all summer
scholars participated in the same
activities.

Summer scholars chose two courses
from a menu of 14 subjects, from art
history to philosophy, and attended
classes each morning. Premed scholars
had the third course, too.

During the afternoons, the students
participated in several outdoor activities,
including working with a compass and
map and rappelling—scaling down cliffs
and off bridges with ropes.

**I loved rappelling,’’ said Melissa
Rankin, 17, of Winter Park, Fla. On the
cliff, ‘‘you look over the edge and you
can’t see the bottom.”’

It was her first time dangling from a
rope in a high place. It also was her first
time working with a compass and a map
and being a radio disc jockey.

‘I’ve done so many things here I’ve
never done before,’’ said Rankin, who
chose radio broadcasting as her third
class. ‘‘We even had our own radio

success story

shows’’ on W&L’s FM station.

The high school students also learn-
ed about getting around a college library,
reading books for maximum effect, how
to study effectively, and how to budget
their time.

‘*T think the best thing that they get
out of this is learning these time-saving
techniques before their freshman year,’’
said Bob Spatig, a 1985 W&L graduate >
who was the head counselor for Summer
Scholars. ‘‘It’s a program I wish I could
have been involved in.’ :

“T love it, I love it,” said Rankin, who
was also in the premed program. She said —
the experience gave her a good idea of the —
preparation she needs for college, such as _
managing her time better and learning t to
say no to excessive activities. — |

‘Now I have a year to work on He
she said. : :

Holt Merchant, associate professor of
history and academic director of Summer _
Scholars, said there are no specific re-
quirements for the program, but usually —
only the best and most motivated high
school juniors apply to spend most of
their summer at school. |

‘‘We take the best we can get,’’ he
said. ‘‘We think this is the best group
we’ve ever had.”’

Tom Nye, head of the biology depart-
ment and director of the premed pro-
gram, said his program was started
because of concern that students, par-
ticularly minorities, were not encourag-
ed to pursue health fields.

Premed is not just about doctors, but
an introduction to all aspects of health
care, including veterinary medicine. The
schedule includes a lot of individual at-
tention from professors and visits to doc-
tors, veterinarians, and other health
professionals.

Fure said Summer Scholars was
started because W&L faculty noticed that
many freshmen wasted a lot of their time
getting started.

‘*Students have to learn how to
manage their time,’’ he said. Fure and
others insisted that Summer Scholars was
not intended as a sales pitch for W&L,
but said the University has attracted some
top students through the program—
including women, who were admitted to
the undergraduate school for the first
time last year.

Last year, 45 of 114 Summer Scholars
applied to W&L, about half were ac-
cepted, and eight enrolled, Fure said.

 

22

W&L

 

 

 

 

 

 

Woodard appointed
at Lewis Law Center

University of Virginia law professor
Calvin Woodard has been named scholar-in-
residence at W&L’s Frances Lewis Law
Center for the 1986 fall term.

Woodard is the
Henry L. and Grace
Doherty Professor of
Law at UVa. A legal
historian, he received
his B.A. from the
University of North
Carolina, his LL.B.
from Yale University, and his Ph.D. from
Cambridge University.

He has taught law at the University of
Virginia since 1964. He has been a Gug-
genheim Fellow, Sesquicentennial Fellow (at
UVa), and a senior fellow for the National
Endowment for the Humanities.

 

  

Craun Stuart

Craun appointed head
of English department

Edwin D. Craun, professor of English at
W&L, has been appointed head of the
University’s department of English.

He succeeds Sidney M. B. Coulling, who
resigned from the post in July for health
reasons.

Craun received his bachelor’s degree
from Wheaton College (Ill.) and his Ph.D.
from Princeton. He joined W&L’s English
faculty in 1971. He also served as assistant
dean of the College from 1976 to 1979 and
as associate dean from 1979 to 1981. He has
been a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a fellow
of the Southeastern Institute of Medieval and
Renaissance Studies.

During the 1986-87 academic year, Craun
will be on sabbatical leave to continue his
ongoing research on medieval blasphemy. In
his absence W. Dabney Stuart will serve as
acting head of the department. Stuart holds
a bachelor’s degree from Davidson College
and a master’s from Harvard. He joined the
W&L faculty in 1965.

Taylor Sanders with a souvenir of his summer
trip to Egypt

Sanders awarded fellowship

‘*Egypt is a country of terrible problems,
but the Egyptians are wonderful, hospitable
people who, with good humor, patience, and
good sense, are trying to solve those prob-
lems.”’

That assessment of Egypt and Egyptians
is offered by I. Taylor Sanders II, professor
of history at Washington and Lee. Sanders
spent a month of his summer vacation study-
ing and traveling in Egypt under the spon-
sorship of the National Council on U.S.-
Arab Relations. He was one of three Na-
tional Council Fellows chosen for a month’s
study at the American University in Cairo.

Sanders used his trip to Egypt to further
his research on a book he is writing about
the life of Robert Wood, an 18th-century
British traveler, Homeric scholar, and politi-
cian who spent extended periods of time in
Egypt. Wood developed the theory of the
oral composition of Homeric poetry from his
observations of Bedouin Arab bards.

During his visit to Egypt, Sanders visited
many of the places Wood discussed in his
published and unpublished works and ex-
amined the monuments, ruins, and pyramids
measured by Wood.

As a member of a group of professors
and high school seniors, Sanders attended
classes and lectures at the American Univer-
sity. The group also took side trips to various
Middle East sites such as Mount Sinai, Sak-
kara, Thebes, and Memphis. And like
Wood, Sanders sailed down the Nile in a
faluka, a wide sailing barge.

Throughout his visit, Sanders said, he
was constantly impressed with the

 

friendliness and courtesy exhibited by Egyp-
tians toward Americans. On the other hand,
he said he sensed a frustration from the
Egyptians that westerners do not understand
Islam or the Arab world.

‘There is a general lack of understanding
of the Arab world,’’ said Sanders. ‘‘The
Arabs we talked to were quoting Thomas
Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson, as well as
the Bible. Few Americans can intelligently
discuss Egyptian leaders such as Muhammad
Ali or Saad Zaghlul; few have ever read the
Koran, either.’’

Sanders also noted a resurgence of
religious fundamentalism in Egypt. While
most of the older women wear modern
clothes fashioned after western styles, more
and more younger women, he said, are
voluntarily returning to veils and traditional
dress.

‘‘The Arabs are examining their thrust
toward westernization and realizing both the
benefits and the cost,’’ he said.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1969, he also teaches courses in ancient and
medieval history as well as British history.

Small world department

What are the odds of a professor and a
student he taught 20 years earlier winding up
spending the night in the same boarding
house in a Norwegian village?

Whatever the odds, John DeVogt and
Neil Houghton, ’66, beat them this summer.

Following a series of conferences in Great
Britain, DeVogt, professor of administration
at W&L, and his wife, Ann, were traveling
in Norway when they arrived in the town of
Geiranger, about 100 miles northeast of
Bergen. Told in advance they would have no
trouble finding lodging in the town set hard
by the Geiranger Fjord, the DeVogts didn’t
bother to make reservations.

Upon arriving in Geiranger, they found
all the hotels booked but did manage to find
a room for rent in a house.

‘*In this same house we happened to run
into an American couple with their young
son,’’ DeVogt explained. ‘‘We ended up
spending the evening together, chatting. I
mentioned that I taught at a small universi-
ty in Virginia. When I told them about
Washington and Lee, the man smiled and
said, ‘I thought you looked familiar.’ ”’

The man was Houghton, who had been
backpacking in Norway with his son. DeVogt
had taught Houghton more than two decades
earlier.

Confessed DeVogt: ‘‘It was a bit odd to
wind up talking over old times at
Washington and Lee in a Norwegian
village.”’

W&L 23

Alumni News

Farrar, Deringer Join Alumni Office Staff

vp 4

i wo Washington and Lee graduates have
been appointed to positions in the Universi-
ty’s Alumni Office.

James D. Farrar Jr., a 1974 graduate of
Washington and Lee, has been named assis-
tant alumni secretary, succeeding Leroy C.
(Buddy) Atkins, ’68, who has become
associate dean of students at W&L.

J. Caulley Deringer, a 1986 graduate, has
been appointed to a newly created alumni

 

rra apr
staff associate position.

The appointments were effective
September 1.

Farrar was previously director of admis-
sions at Episcopal High School in Alexan-
dria, Va. As assistant alumni secretary, he
will have primary responsibility for planning
and coordinating such on-campus alumni
events as homecoming and class reunions
and will assist with programming services for
the University’s 82 alumni chapters.

A history major at W&L, Farrar was a
member of the varsity football and lacrosse
teams and Sigma Alpha Epsilon social frater-
nity. He and his wife, Katherine, are the
parents of two sons, James D. III, 5, and
Lyle Hamilton, 1%.

Deringer majored in journalism at W&L.
He was a four-year letterman in lacrosse and
a member of the student recruitment com-
mittee, the Student Activities Board, and Phi
Kappa Sigma social fraternity. In the new
position, Deringer will work closely with
Kathekon, the student alumni association,
and will assist in the preparation of the Class
Notes section of the Alumni Magazine.

  

The Puget Sound Chapter made a quick
change of plans in mid-summer when it

24 W&L

A Message from the Alumni President

As Alumni Board president for 1986-87, it is a pleasure to communicate to you
some of your board’s activities over the recent past and its plans for the next 10 months.

Your 21-member board, replenished each year by five ‘‘freshmen”’ to replace five
retiring ‘‘seniors,’’ has evolved over recent years into a working board with numerous
committees and sub-committees, which do as much of their work away from Lex-
ington as they do during our semi-annual meetings on the campus.

Among the areas with which your board will involve itself between now and May
1987 are the state of the Honor System, the state of student conduct, the future role
of fraternities, a new chapter guidance manual, career development, selection of Board
of Trustee nominees from the alumni body, minority affairs, chapter communica-
tions, the Annual Fund, reunion weekends, and improvements to the Alumni House.

Many thanks go to the members who left the board in May—President Bill
Clements, ’50, Ollie Mendell, ’50, Treasurer Charles Beall, 56, ’58L, and Vice Presi-
dent Rice Tilley, ’58, for their fine work the past four years.

Finally, I know you will join me in welcoming two new members to the staff.
Jim Farrar, the new assistant alumni secretary, who will be filling the large shoes
of Buddy Atkins, who has been promoted to the position of associate dean of students,

   

and Caulley Deringer, who will be the new staff associate.

Sincerely,
Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton, ’62, ’65L

scrapped a picnic in favor of a night at the
theatre. The quick switch allowed the chapter
members to attend the premiere of a play
written by Washington and Lee drama pro-
fessor Thomas Ziegler. Ziegler’s Strings,
which premiered in W&L’s Boiler Room
Theatre in 1983 under the title Love Poems,
opened at Seattle’s New City Theatre on
August 7. On the second night of its three-
week run there, Puget Sound Chapter
members attended the performance as a
group and then enjoyed a reception with the
cast, the crew, and playwright Ziegler. J.
Michael Gallagher, ’79, the chapter presi-
dent, coordinated the event.

il

The Tidewater Chapter inaugurated a
new practice during its mid-August reception
for current and new students when it award-
ed a prize to the rising sophomore from the
area who had compiled the highest grade
point average during the previous year.
Laura S. Carty, ’89, won the first award,
comprising a $250 gift certificate at W&L’s
Bookstore.

President

Members of W&L’s entering class of
1990 were welcomed into the University
family during picnics, barbecues, and other
such gatherings held by several alumni
chapters during the summer.

Among the chapters who held such
gatherings were Washington, D.C., Florida
West Coast, Charlotte, Pittsburgh, South
Carolina Piedmont, Pensacola and Mobile,
Winston-Salem, Long Island, West-
chester/Fairfield, Northern New Jersey,
Houston, Louisville, and Southern Ohio.

John Elrod, dean of the College, was a
special guest at the South Carolina Piedmont
function in Greenville. Alumni secretary
Dick Sessoms joined the Pittsburgh Chapter
for its reception, and Buddy Atkins, ’68,
associate dean of students, was in attendance
at the joint reception held by the Pensacola
and Mobile chapters in Perdido Key, Fla.

Bill Washburn, ’40, former alumni
secretary and now associate director of
development, was the featured speaker at

 

 

 

 

meetings of the Upper Potomac and
Cumberland Valley chapters in August.
Washburn, whose current duties include
coaching W&L’s women’s tennis team,
reported on the University’s first year of
undergraduate coeducation.

The Middle Tennessee Chapter gathered
for a party at the home of Mrs. John B.
Hayes in Nashville in August.

The San Diego Chapter held its sixth an-
nual sunset cocktail party in August at the
La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club where
Melissa and Max (’60) Elliott, were hosts.

Two chapters used softball as an excuse
to enjoy a mid-summer gathering. The New
Orleans Chapter staged an alumni versus cur-
rent students game while the Atlanta Chapter
challenged local Sewanee alumni. The wire
services have been remiss in reporting scores
of these contests.

The Richmond Chapter joined with
alumnae of Sweet Briar for a barbecue in
August, and members of the Baltimore
Chapter again participated in a Virginia Col-
lege Night at a Baltimore Orioles game.

B:

arbecue for Class of ’90

The Alumni Association held its annual
picnic for the entering freshmen as part of
the orientation program in September. Held
at the student pavilion on the campus, the
event featured the music of Southern Com-
fort and plenty of barbecue.

    

% ae

 

PITTSBURGH—Andy Roy, ’25, and Joe
Shuman, ’25, had a mini-reunion at the Pitts-
burgh meeting.

     

 

 

 

ae

UPPER POTOMAC—Front row, from left: Al Darby, ’43; Joyce Stewart, ’*87L; Bill Washburn,
40, associate director of development; Beth Miller, ’89L; second row, from left: Donald W.
Mason, ’51L; Rev. Edward C. Chapman, ’70; Leslie Helmer, ’35; D. Michael Marsh, ’83;
Thomas G. Mays III, ’74; Thomas N. Berry, ’38.

PENSACOLA and MOBILE—Attending the combined meeting of the two chapters were, from
left, Chris Hart, ’68; Jodee Hart; Miner Harrell, ’71; Jeannie Harrell; Clifford Foster, ’61;
Eugenia Foster; Melissa Morrissette; Clifton Morrissette, 83.

 

TRU Vi
TS ~ @ (Os

PITTSBURGH—Members of the Pittsburgh Chapter gather on the porch of John Stafford’s,
"79, home in suburban Sewickley for a summer reception.

W&L = 25

 

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms All black lacquer
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va. $150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

26

W&L

1919

Howard P. Arnest, who was licensed to practice
law in the state of Oregon in 1919, continues in
active practice at the age of 92. Arnest lives in

Portland.
1929

Asa M. Janney of Lincoln, Va., was recently
honored upon his retirement from the board of
Farmers & Merchants National Bank in Hamilton,
Va., after 33 years of service. Janney is a well-
known local historian who is the proprietor of the
Lincoln General Store and served as postmaster
in Lincoln for 40 years.

1935

Don R. Wallis is semi-retired and living on the
banks of the Ohio River near Madison, Ind. Wallis
operates one daily and four weekly newspapers in
southern Indiana.

1936

Former Virginia state delegate Lewis A. McMur-
ran Jr. was honored in May by being designated
chairman emeritus of the Jamestown-Yorktown
Commission in ceremonies over which Virginia
Gov. Gerald Baliles presided. As part of the
ceremonies, a portrait of McMurran was unveil-
ed and will hang in a new board room, which is
named after McMurran, at the Jamestown-
Yorktown Foundation. In 1954, McMurran
became chairman of the Virginia 350th Anniver-
sary Commission, a forerunner of the Jamestown-
Yorktown Foundation. He continued in that post
until May 1986. He was a state delegate for 30
years and a leader in the establishment of three
state museums. Gov. Baliles called McMurran
“fone of the truly great Virginians of the 20th cen-
tury’’ and said that he will best be remembered
“for his contributions to ensuring that Virginians
never forget their heritage.’’ For his work, Queen
Elizabeth II designated McMurran a member of
the Order of the British Empire. He was in-
strumental in the creation of the Jamestown
Festival Park and the Yorktown Victory Center.
Most recently McMurran spearheaded planning
for the Museum of American Frontier Culture in
Staunton. W&L honored him in 1980 with its
Distinguished Alumnus Award.

1938

John C. Cook was honored as Pilot of the Year
by Long Beach Soaring in Long Beach, Calif.

J. Oliver Gluyas, who retired from American
Airlines in 1974 and then from the City Universi-
ty of New York in 1981, works part-time as a per-
sonnel/labor relations adviser to Quantas Airways.
He lives in Brevard, N.C.

Thomas A. Mallory has been retired for six years
and is active in voluntary service to the Aging Net-
work. He serves as a delegate to the Aging Net-
work’s Region 8 advisory council, the advisory
council of the Michigan Commission on Aging,
and to the Michigan Senior Advocates Council.

1939

George E. Goodwin has stepped down after more
than 21 years as head of the Atlanta office of Man-

 

 

ee |

 

ning, Selvage & Lee, Inc., the nation’s sixth largest
public relations firm. His ‘‘semi-retirement’’ in-
cludes continued roles as trustee of the In-
terdenominational Theological Seminary, Literacy
Action, and the Alliance Theatre, all in Atlanta.
In May 1986, he delivered six lectures and par-
ticipated in faculty and student counseling at the
University of Georgia School of Journalism. In
recognition of his years of service to the public
relations profession as well as to the city of Atlan-
ta, the Atlanta chapter of the Public Relations
Society of America has named its annual public
service award in his honor.

Charles W. Midelburg has retired from the real
estate business in Charleston, W.Va. He now lives
in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

Edgar L. Smith is engaged in the general practice
of law with his daughter, Brenda, in Lewisburg,
W.Va. Active in many civic affairs, he is presi-
dent of Carnagie Hill, Inc., a restoration project.

1940

A. Lea Booth of Lynchburg, Va., is vice president
and a director of Pride of Virginia Meats, Inc.

John C. Easterberg retired in 1985 as assistant
counsel of Allstate Insurance Co. and has return-
ed to college to study Spanish. He toured Moroc-
co with a photography class last fall and plans this
fall to tour in Rajistan, India. Easterberg still lives
in Richmond.

194]

James R. McConnell retired from Baker Interna-
tional in 1985 and is now part of the management
group of York International, an air conditioning
and refrigeration company. He lives in Bel Air,

Md.
1942

John L. Mangan (See Stephen L. Mangan, ’79.)

1943

J. Paul Blakely, project leader in the safety analysis
section of the health, safety, environment, and ac-
countability division at the Oak Ridge Y-12 Plant,
was recently honored by the Society for Technical
Communication as a 1986 associate fellow. Blakely
was recognized for ‘‘outstanding leadership and
support for technical communication in east Ten-
nessee and for distinguished service to the Socie-
ty.’’ He joined the Y-12 Plant in 1943 as an
analytical chemist. He and his wife, Tinque, live
in Knoxville, Tenn.

Lawrence W. Galloway of Sioux City, Iowa, has
retired from the Terra Chemical Co. and plans to
move to Naples, Fla.

William C. Hamilton, chairman of Hamilton
Pontiac-Cadillac, Inc., in Hagerstown, Md., was
a recipient of the 1986 Time Magazine Quality
Dealer Award. He was one of 67 new car dealers
in the nation nominated for the Time honor.

Robert P. Tyson has retired from Yankee
Publishing, Inc., of Dublin, N.H., after 39 years
in the magazine publishing and advertising field.
He lives in Kennett Square, Pa.

1944

Richard L. Duchossois has announced his plans
to rebuild Arlington Park, his horse-racing center,
located outside of Chicago, that was destroyed by
fire. The new park will be constructed in northern
Illinois. On the park’s former site, Duchossois in-
tends to construct a new cultural center and
residential complex. The cost of the entire project
is estimated at $1.3 billion.

Richard L. Heard is completing his 23rd year with

the U.S. Department of Labor. The last 14 years
have been spent in the department’s regional of-
fice in Dallas. Heard lives in Arlington, Texas.

1945

R. Edward Jackson has retired after 29 years at
Time magazine. During that time he served in
various capacities, including foreign news writer,
Rome bureau chief, international editor,
Washington news editor, managing editor of the
Washington Star, and deputy chief of cor-
respondents. Two mornings after he left Time (and
just as he was pulling his golf clubs from the closet)
he received a phone call that led to his appoint-
ment as editor of the World Press Review, a
monthly magazine digest reprinting the best of the
foreign press. Jackson continues to live—and
work—in New York. :

Robert E. Norman retired in 1984 after 29 years
with Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. He is now
a substitute teacher in the Ohio County, W.Va.,
public school system.

1948
Andrew C. McFall Jr. sold his insurance agency
and is happily retired in St. Petersburg, Fla.
1949
D. Earl Brown Jr. is associate deputy chief medical
director of the Veterans Administration. His of-

fice is located in the VA central office in
Washington, D.C.

C. Victor Moore Jr. retired in January 1986 from
Chevron Overseas Petroleum, Inc., after 35 years
with the company. Moore’s retirement plans in-
clude teaching at Stanford University and
geological and engineering consulting. He lives in
Moraga, Calif.

1950
John S. Bell has retired after 17 years as director

of transportation for the state of West Virginia.
He and his wife of 40 years, Betty, now live in

Melbourne, Fla., where he plays golf and enjoys

the beach.
195]

John E. Kannapell Jr. was elected mayor of Glen-
view, Ky., which is on the outskirts of Louisville.
He is president of Kannapell Advertising in
Louisville.

Robert T. Pittman is editor of the editorial page
for the St. Petersburg Times and vice president of
Times Publishing Co. in St. Petersburg, Fla.

1952

Thomas G. Gardner left his life insurance job in
Manassas, Va., to open a dry cleaning business
in Woodbridge, Va., with his wife, Annie. They
live in Dale City, Va.

Thomas R. Shepherd retired after 25 years with

GTE to join the private investment firm of Thomas
H. Lee Co. Shepherd and his wife, Nancy, live in

Stow, Mass.
1953

Robert L. Banse was elected senior vice president
and general counsel of Merck & Co., Inc., in May
1986. He lives in Lawrenceville, N.J.

  

Banse Hiestand

Ed A. Hiestand Jr. was recently elected a senior
vice president of J. Walter Thompson USA. Hies-
tand and his wife, Jean, live in Weston, Conn.

William A. Hockett Jr. is a partner in Interdatum,
a human resources consulting firm specializing in
executive recruiting, team building, and manage-

 

The banner headline across the mock
sports section of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch back in August, told the story.
The headline screamed ‘‘MAX AILOR
RETIRES”’ in 96-point type. A smaller
head added: ‘‘Bass sulking; deer refuse
to be harvested.’’

Lillard M. (Max) Ailor, ’43, did in-
deed retire in
August after spen-
ding his entire
career On the
Times-Dispatch
sports staff.

According to a
story that appeared
in the Times-
Dispatch, Ailor
was hired after the
newspaper’s then-
sports editor, Chauncey Durden, made a
telephone call to Cap’n Dick Smith,
W&L’s late, legendary athletic director.

 

Deer protest Ailor’s retirement

“‘Cap’n Dick told me the only thing he
was sure of was that Ailor would never
fail at anything for lack of effort,’’
Durden recalled. ‘‘I hired him a few
minutes later.’’

Ailor spent the majority of his 40-year
newspaper career as the newspaper’s out-
door writer. In fact, he took over what
had been a part-time assignment writing
the fishing and hunting column at the
Times-Dispatch and quickly became the
first full-time outdoor writer in the state
of Virginia.

A two-time All-Southern Conference
wrestler during his W&L days, Ailor was
also a starting lineman on the Generals’
football team. Little wonder that, on the
occasion of Ailor’s retirement, the
newspaper’s managing editor, Marv Gar-
rette, described Ailor this way: ‘‘He’s the
only guy I ever met who could be wear-
ing a three-piece suit and you still knew
he had hair on his chest.’’

 

 

W&L = 27

 

 

ment development. His office is in Palo Alto,
Calif.

P. James Kurapka has retired from the Social
Security Administration after 30 years of federal
government service. He lives in Catonsville, Md.

1954

J. Ellis Crosby Jr. is president of Crosby-Knighton
Lumber Co. and Putnam Lumber & Export Co.
in Jacksonville, Fla. His daughter, Jackie, won a
1985 Pulitzer Prize for a series of stories she wrote
on athletics and academics at two Georgia univer-
sities. His son, Russell, is a member of W&L’s
entering freshman class.

Sedgwick L. Moss is a travel consultant with VIP
Travel in Falls Church, Va.

Richard P. Ross is vice president of marketing at
North Shore Savings in Milwaukee and also
teaches marketing at Marquette University.

Rev. Walter E. Smith, an ordained Episcopal
priest, has been elected president of the Georgia
Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, a
professional organization promoting excellent
standards of service in marital and family treat-
ment. Smith began private practice in the field of
marriage and family therapy in 1971. He lives in
Atlanta.

1955

Dr. H. Christopher Alexander III was recently
elected president of the Virginia Society of Inter-
nal Medicine. He lives in Roanoke.

L. Phillip Jacoby III of Rockford, Ill., was nam-
ed vice president and general manager of the Preci-
sion Forming division of Elco Industries, Inc.

P. James Kurapka (See 1953.)

An article by J. Hardin Marion, titled ‘‘Legal and
Equitable Remedies Under the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act,’’ has been published in The
Maryland Law Review. Marion continues to be the
managing partner of the Baltimore law firm of
Tydings & Rosenberg.

John A. Rutherford of Radford, Va., recently per-
formed in the Virginia Storytelling League annual
storytelling festival in Williamsburg, Va.

1956

A paper by Rupert F. Chisholm has been
designated the outstanding paper submitted last
year for judging by the organizational behavior
division of the National Academy of Management.
The paper, which studied stress reactions of
workers at Three Mile Island, was chosen from
more than 142 entries from university researchers
throughout the nation. Chisholm is a professor at
the Pennsylvania State University of Harrisburg
and lives in Hummelstown, Pa.

 

28 W&L

Richard P. Ross (See 1954.)

Dr. Headley S. White Jr. has been named senior
vice president for medical and academic affairs at
Lehigh Valley Hospital Center in Allentown, Pa.

1958

James J. Crawford Jr. is manager of exploration
in Khartoum, Sudan, for the Sun Sudan Oil Co.,
Inc.

J. Hardin Marion (See 1955.)

Thomas P. O’Brien Jr. of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
been promoted _ to
brigadier general in the
U.S. Army Reserves.
O’Brien was commis-
sioned through the Ar-
my’s ROTC program at
W&L and is possibly the
first W&L ROTC to
reach this rank. He is a
corporate attorney with
the Kroger Co. in Cincin-
nati. His son, Thomas, is a member of W&L’s
class of 1988.

Frederick H. Tarr III was recently elected presi-
dent of the Essex County Selectmen’s Association.
A resident of Rockport, Mass., Tarr has been a
member of the 25-town association for 12 years.

1959

Tom L. Larimore has resigned his position with
the Western Co. of North America and returned
to the full-time practice of law in Fort Worth,
Texas.

Robert E. Shepherd Jr., professor of law at the
University of Richmond’s T.C. Williams School
of Law, is chairman of the juvenile justice com-
mittee of the American Bar Association. Shepherd
also serves as chairman of the Virginia Bar
Association’s Commission on the Needs of
Children, the Virginia Criminal Justice Services
Board, and the Virginia Juvenile Justice and Delin-
quency Prevention Advisory Board.

1960

Thomas P. O’Brien (See 1958).

J. Davis Reed III has been re-elected by the
General Assembly of Virginia for a second six-year
term as judge of the Juvenile and Domestic Rela-
tions Court for the Second Judicial District. Davis
lives in Virginia Beach.

1961

Robert E. Shepherd Jr. (See 1959).

1962

James A. Russ is president and chief executive of-
ficer of Rosenfeld Concrete Corp., a sand and

 

gravel and ready-mixed concrete company in the
Boston area. He and his wife, Rita, live in

Holliston, Mass.
1963

Donald W. Belveal is president and chief executive
officer of Earthsource Corp., a gas and oil explora-
tion company based in Denver. His son, Todd,
entered W&L in September as a freshman. Belveal
resides in Tampa, Fla.

Robert D. Hart Jr. was appointed chairman of the
Florida Elections Commission by Florida Gover-
nor Bob Graham. He is president of the Pensacola
Bar Association and a member of the Pensacola
law firm of Clark, Partington, Hart, Larry, Bond
and Stackhouse. He and his wife, Anne, have three
children—Daniel, Douglas, and Anne Fair.

George W. Harvey Jr. has joined Broadcast Media
Services, Inc., in Tampa, Fla., as regional sales
manager. Broadcast Media is the management arm
of Family Group Broadcasting which operates in-
dependent television and radio stations in the
midwest, Texas, and Florida.

Lt. Col. E. Andrew Leonard and Capt. Kerry D.
Scott, ’76, are two of the 30 Army Reserve officers
tapped to serve in emergencies as military attaches
at U.S. embassies overseas. Leonard expects to
spend the coming fall and winter months serving
at the embassies in Uruguay and Ecuador. Scott
is assigned to the embassy in Austria for mobiliza-
tion purposes.

Thomas P. Rideout has been named senior vice
president of First Union Corp., which recently
merged with First Railroad & Banking Co. Rideout
was formerly president and chief executive officer
of Savannah Bank & Trust Co., a subsidiary of
First Railroad.

Charles A. Schulz Jr., publisher of the Taylor Dai-
ly Press in Austin, Texas,
was elected president of
the Texas Press Associa-
tion during the annual
convention in June.
Schulz is a second-
generation newspaper-
man, having followed his
father in the business.
Before joining the
family-owned Taylor
Newspapers, Inc., as
secretary-treasurer in
1974, he was an associate with the investment firm
of Smith, Barney & Co. in Dallas for 11 years.

 

Michael D. Sussman, head of pediatric orthopedic
surgery at the University of Virginia, spent a
month recently as visiting professor at Madassah
University in Jerusalem.

1964

John M. Allgood served as district governor of
eastern South Carolina for Rotary International
during 1985-86. Allgood lives in Walterboro, S.C.

David J. French runs a family business, Luce Press
Clipping, Inc., in Phoenix, Ariz. French has four
children—Amy, 13; Katy, 11; William, 8; and
David, 6.

Robert A. Paddock continues to work at Argon-
na National Laboratory on high-level nuclear
waste disposal in deep salt formations. Paddock
lives in Naperville, Ill., with his wife and their three
children, Tracy, Mike, and Holly.

1965

Jeffrey G. Conrad was recently named executive
vice president of Garland Publishing, New York-

 

 

 

 

 

based publishers of reference books, textbooks,
and scholarly facsimile editions. Conrad resides
in Norwalk, Conn.

Dr. Adam J. Fiedler has been elected president of
the Richmond, Va., Obstetrical and Gynecological
Society.

James S. Legg Jr. was a contributing author to
a textbook entitled Spacecraft Attitude Determina-
tion and Control, currently in its fifth printing.

William L. Price joined Investment Advisers, Inc.,
a Houston-based firm specializing in the manage-
ment of taxable and tax-exempt stock and bond
portfolios. He is vice president in charge of new
business development.

Henry B. Quekemeyer Jr. is enjoying semi-
retirement in Daytona Beach, Fla.

Walter H. Ryland is a member of the Richmond,
Va., law firm of Williams, Mullen and Christian.
1966
Bruce C. Miller has started a public relations con-
sulting partnership in Richmond, Va., under the
name of Miller Towberman & Associates. He had
most recently served as vice president for the Na-
tional Soft Drink Association, where he was
responsible for a nationwide public relations cam-

paign for the soft drink industry.

1967
Roger A. Blair is vice president for development
for Lincoln Property Co. in Columbia, Md. Blair
and his wife, Linda, and children, Jennifer, Katie,
and Ben, live in Edgewater, Md.

John R. Miller is currently a battalion commander
in West Germany. His previous assignment had
been as executive officer to Joint Chiefs of Staff
representative to MBFR, Vienna, Austria. Miller
and his wife and two daughters make their home
in Kaiserslantern.

Walter S. Nicklin III is the publisher and editor
of New Dominion, a new magazine focusing on
Northern Virginia. The first issue of the magazine
will be published in November. In 1980 Nicklin
founded Country magazine.

Bradford A. Rochester recently won the Ben Foun-
tain Award for writing which was presented by the
North Carolina Association of Community Col-
lege Public Information Officers. This was the sec-
ond time this award has been presented—and the
second time Rochester has won it. Rochester lives
in Eden, N.C.

Walter H. Ryland (See 1965).

1968

James W. Baria is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the Chambre Cosmetic Co., which is based
in San Antonio, Texas. Baria lives in Stone Moun-
tain, Ga.

R. Douglas Lackey is a solicitor in the legal depart-
ment of Southern Bell in Atlanta. He and his wife,
Joanne, live in Tucker, Ga.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Walter S. Lockhart III, by
adoption, a daughter, Mary Kirkpatrick, on July
15, 1985. The Lockharts live in Charlotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. Crawford Williams Jr,
a son, Charles C. Williams III, on May 27, 1986.
Williams is a practicing attorney with the firm of
Williams & Taliaferro. He and his wife, Lynn, live
in Birmingham, Ala. Charles III is the Williams’
third child. The others are Barley, 7, and Marna
Jane, 4.

 

Shoaf, left, and Denman aboard the M.V. Royal Princess

This past June, two members of Washington and Lee’s Class of 1938 had a rather
remarkable reunion aboard the M. V. Royal Princess as she cruised Glacier Bay,

Alaska.

Although John H. Shoaf and Kester W. Denman Jr. had not seen each other since
June of 1936, they immediately recognized one another and spent a good portion

of the cruise reminiscing.

It wasn’t until they had recalled a good many memories from their student days
that they began wondering about more recent times and discovered that, for the past
eight years, they had lived only minutes away from one another’s homes in Mont-

gomery County, Texas.

Harold W. Bowles is director of Nuclear Safety
at Carolina Power & Light’s Harris Nuclear Facili-
ty. He and his wife, Gerry, and three children live
in Raleigh, N.C., where he serves as elder in the
Hudson Memorial Presbyterian Church and is ac-
tive in area youth activities.

Ricks Carson is in the Ph.D. program in
English/creative writing at Georgia State Univer-
sity in Atlanta. Carson has won or achieved finalist
designation in several national poetry contests. He,
his wife, and their son, Thomas Elliott, live in
Atlanta.

Mark R. Eaker is professor of finance at the
Darden Graduate School of Business at the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He moved to Charlottesville in
August with his wife, Lynn, and their sons, Noah
and Adam.

Richard E. Kramer has been appointed editor of
American Directors Institute’s quarterly newslet-
ter, Directors Notes. ADI is a new professional
association fostering awareness of the work of the
stage director in the American theater. Kramer has
completed the coursework for his Ph.D. in per-
formance studies at New York University.

Milton K. Long Jr. of Hagerstown, Md., will seek
re-election as the county’s state attorney for
Washington County, Md. Long has held this post
since 1982.

Glen P. Mattox is the purchasing manager in the
McDonald’s Corporation regional office in Cherry
Hill, N.J.

Thomas M. Newman is practicing neurology in
Tampa, Fla.

After 11 years in the insurance business, Gregory
E. Parker has again placed in the Top 100 Agents
group for Northwestern Mutual Life. He lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

An Alaska reunion

 

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Armstrong, a
son, Richard Davis Vance, on May 31, 1986. Arm-
strong, a senior vice president of First Wachovia
Corp. in Winston-Salem, N.C., also has a
daughter, Sarah, 3

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Christopher D. Coursen,
a daughter, Madeline, on May 12, 1986. She joins
twin brothers Matthew and Cameron, 6. Coursen
is a partner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of
O’Connor & Hannan.

BIRTH: Ut. Col. and Mrs. Malcolm H. Squires
Jr., a son, Harris Goodall, on Nov. 3, 1985.
Squires is stationed in Frankfurt, Germany, with
the U.S. Army.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James J. Winn Jr., a son,
James, on Feb. 25, 1986. Winn is in private law
practice with the firm of Piper & Marbury in
Washington, D.C., concentrating on banking and
business law. He and his wife, Elizabeth, have two
other children, Molly and Lacy.

T. Kenneth Cribb Jr. has been nominated by Presi-
dent Reagan to become Counsel of the Ad-
ministrative Conference of the United States.
Cribb, who lives in Arlington, has been chief
counsel to U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese
since 1982.

Robert L. Entzminger has published a book titled
Divine Word: Milton and the Redemption of
Language. Entzminger is professor of English at
Virginia Tech.

Dr. Frank E. Fisher, a research physician with the
Lovelace Medical Foundation in Albuquerque,
N.M., is currently working with the Veterans’
Health Study. VHS is a federally funded investiga-
tion into the effects of service in Vietnam on the
men who served there.

W&L 29

 

Dr. G. Gilbert Frank is chief of neonatology at
the Fitzsimmons Army Medical Center in Aurora,
Colo. He is a lieutenant colonel in the Army.

Jeffrey B. Grossman is director of business
analysis for the House of Seagram. He has been
with the company for 15 years and lives in Stam-
ford, Conn.

Dr. Gregory L. Holmes became associate professor
of pediatrics and neurology at the Medical Col-
lege of Georgia in May 1986. Holmes was also a
recent recipient of the Robert Horsley Award from
the University of Virginia School of Medicine.

L. Clarke Jones III is vice president of real estate
for Jones Realty and Construction Corp. in Rich-
mond, specializing in site selection and acquisition
of commercial and investment real estate.

John S. Prichard received his Ph.D. in educational
administration from the University of Pittsburgh.
He is a social studies teacher at Butler Intermediate
High School in Butler, Pa., where he lives with
his wife and six-year-old son.

197]
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Brinckerhoff, a son,
Benjamin Watson, on May 22, 1986. Brinckerhoff
is Opening a law office in North Kingstown, R.I.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Koeniger, a son,
Anderson Cash, on Feb. 19, 1986, in Natchez,
Miss. In August, Koeniger joined the faculty of
Virginia Military Institute as associate professor
of history.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Francis M. Lawrence, a
son, Avery McQuaid, on Dec. 19, 1985, in
Charlottesville, Va. He joins two sisters, Jenna,
8, and Meredith, 4.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter F. San Miguel, a
daughter, Kelly Brier, on Oct. 6, 1985, in Green-
ville, S.C.

William H. Arvin of Alexandria, Va., has passed
the Virginia Bar exam.

Marcus E. Bromley is a partner in the Trammel
Crow organization with responsibility for residen-
tial development in Georgia, Alabama, and
Mississippi. Bromley lives in Dunwoody, Ga., with
his wife, Nancy, and two sons, Tyler and Eric.

Thomas W. Clyde has been named vice president
of finance and director of T.B. Butler Publishing
Co., Inc., of Tyler, Texas.

E. Wren Hudgins, a psychologist for the past five
years, has formed a private practice partnership
with two psychiatrists in Seattle, Wash. Hudgins
and his wife, Leigh, live there with two sons, Craig,
5, and Alex, 3.

Edward F. Judt handles institutional bond sales
for Craigie, Inc., a Richmond-based investment
bank. He lives in Allentown, Pa.

Dr. R. Balfour Sartor is an assistant professor of
gastroenterology at the University of North
Carolina. He was recently an invited speaker at
the International Symposium on Inflammatory
Bowel Disease held in Jerusalem, where he dis-
cussed his research in intestinal inflammation. He
lives in Chapel Hill, with his son, Ryan, 10, and
daughter, Emily, 8.

Dr. J. Connor Smith has left the U.S. Navy and
is practicing urology in a multi-specialty clinic,
Clark-Holder Clinic, in LaGrange, Ga.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Frank B. Bazzel, a
daughter, Lynn, on April 28, 1986. She joins
brothers Frank Jr., 6, and Johnson, 2. Bazzel is

30 ~W&L

an attorney specializing in commercial real estate
in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. Ridgely Benton Jr., a
son, Noah, on Aug. 27, 1985. Benton, his wife,
Susan, and two other sons, Chris and Josh, live
in Martinez, Ga., where he is active in the YMCA
youth soccer program.

Dr. J. Hudson Allender is director of pediatric care
at the Fort Worth Children’s Hospital. Allender
was recently certified in pediatric cardiology. He
is president elect of the Tarrant County Heart
Association.

Alan D. Frazer recently returned from a 2-year
assignment in Stirling, Scotland, where he
established the planning and procurement division
for a new Wang Laboratories manufacturing
facility. Frazer is in the finance and materials divi-
sion of Wang’s corporate headquarters in Lowell,
Mass.

John B. Woodlief is a partner in the New York
office of Price Waterhouse. He and his wife, Cyn-
thia, live in Short Hills, N.J.

1973
MARRIAGE: John P. Miller and Clare Close
Benbow on April 19, 1986, in Hampstead, Md.
Miller is a partner in the Baltimore law firm of
Kaplan, Heyman, Greenberg, Engelman and
Belgrad.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. John C. Fullerton III, a son,
John Carr IV, on Jan. 8, 1986, at Fort Hood,
Texas. Fullerton, his wife, Beth, and son live in
Harlingen, Texas, where he is in private general
surgery practice after leaving the Army. He was
recently made a fellow of the American College
of Surgeons.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Johnson, a
daughter, Lauren Gabrielle, on March 3, 1986.
Johnson is a partner in the Bluefield, W.Va., law
firm of Shott and Johnson.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Stephen C. Priest, a son,
Colin Michael, on June 12, 1986. He joins a
brother, Hunter. Priest in doing a residency in col-
on and rectal surgery and lives in Royal Oak,
Mich., with his wife, Marty, and family.

Richard V. Anderson has relocated to Lynchburg,
Va., and is an attorney in the law department of

 

Babcock & Wilcox Co.’s naval nuclear fuel
division.

Thomas Hal Clarke Jr. has been named senior vice
president and general counsel of Georgia Federal
Bank, that state’s largest savings institution. He
was formerly a partner in the firm Gambrell,
Clarke, Anderson & Stolz and is a member of the
Atlanta and American bar associations, the State
Bar of Georgia, and the Lawyers Club of Atlan-
ta. Clarke, his wife, Nan Robertson Clarke, ’76L,
and their four children live in Atlanta.

Peter J. Furey is secretary and administrator for
the New Jersey Farm Bureau and lives in
Moorestown, N.J.

Maj. Nicholas P. Grant is attending the U.S. Ar-
my’s command and general staff college at Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas.

Timothy F. Haley has been made a partner in the
Chicago law firm of Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather
& Geraldson. The firm has offices in New York,
Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, and San
Francisco.

Clyde M. Henkel is an attorney in Washington,
D.C. He and his wife, Sharon, and daughter,
Amanda, live in Dumfries, Va., where he is a
deacon at the Wintergreen Christian Church.

A. Russell Kirk, president of Armada/Hoffler
Enterprises, Inc., located in Chesapeake, Va., has
joined the Virginia Port Authority’s board of
commissioners.

William H. Mclihany II of Newport Beach, Calif.,
recently founded the Individualist Research Foun-
dation to publish revisionist historical studies and
reprints consistent with the work of the late
historians Nesta Webster and Robert Welch.

Lt. Col. Malcolm H. Squires Jr. (See 1973.)

Paul C. Suthern is executive vice president of
operations for MEDCO Containment Services,
Inc. He lives in Basking Ridge, N.J., with his wife,
Marilyn, and their adopted son, Andrew.

1974
MARRIAGE: B. Troy Ferguson III and Christine
Marie Cutrell on May 3, 1986. Ferguson is a com-
mercial loan officer with NCNB National Bank.
He received his M.B.A. from New York Univer-
sity in 1982. The couple lives in Salisbury, N.C.

 

Scott Apter, ’69, president of Apter
Industries, Inc., in McKeesport, Pa., was
a guest speaker in the 1986 Institute for
Executives, a two-week management
development pro-
_ gram focusing on
business ethics and
the humanities
held annually at
W&L.

Apter’s talk,
_ given June 27 dur-
) ing a weekend
retreat at Skylark,
explored several of
the moral dilemmas faced by executives
who are charged with managing sales

 

 

Apter lectures

to executives

companies in highly competitive markets.

While Apter’s company is small com-
pared with those represented in the In-
stitute’s 1986 enrollment (IBM, John
Hancock, AT&T, Philip Morris, etc.),
Apter observed that most corporate ex-
ecutives must deal with similar ethical
quandaries.

He also pointed out that many ex-
ecutives in larger corporations have am-
bitions to form their own companies.
Vital to the success of such enterprises,
Apter argued, is a sound business
philosophy based on high integrity, one
that governs not only the company’s rela-
tions with its customers but with its own
employees as well.

 

 

 

 

 

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Paul K. Hartmann, a son,
English, on Nov. 26, 1985. Hartmann is in his first
year of private practice in oral and maxillofacial
surgery in Williamsburg, Va.

Maj. David V. Finnell has been reassigned to Fort
Belvoir, Va., as communicative skills officer for
the Army’s new writing program there.

Lawrence H. Framme III, partner in the Richmond
law firm of Mezzullo, McCandlish and Framme,
has been elected chairman of the Democratic Party
of Virginia. He has served the Democratic Party
in numerous capacities, including Richmond
Democratic Committee Chairman and Third Con-
gressional District Chairman. He and his wife,
Frances, live in Richmond.

Gary W. McAuliffe recently won the CIBA-
CEIGY Pharmaceuticals Circle of Excellence
award for the highest sales. McAuliffe and his
wife, Betty, live in Richmond with their 3-year-
old daughter, Katie.

John P. Woodley Jr. has formed the law partner-
ship of Woodley and Simon in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Daniel B. Krisky and Kathy Sue
Dye on May 17, 1986, in Herndon, Va. Krisky is
in private law practice in Fairfax, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Rogers L. Crain, a son,
Rogers Lacy Jr., on June 5, 1986. Crain, vice presi-
dent of R. Lacy, Inc., lives in Houston with his
wife, Kelty, and son.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Koch, a son,
Alexander Porter, on May 9, 1986. He joins
brother Richard Crawford, 3. Koch is an attorney
with the Charlotte, N.C., firm of Palmer, Miller,
Campbell and Martin.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James N. Overton, a
daughter, Sarah Rann, on July 22, 1985, in
Jacksonville, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Eugene C. Perry Jr., a son,
Eugene Calvin III, on Jan. 24, 1986, in Somerset,
N.J. He joins a 3-year-old sister, Shannon.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James E. Pope, a daughter,
Jennifer Ellis, on May 23, 1986, in Winston-Salem,
N.C. She joins a 2-year-old sister, Christine.

Charles J. Brown III is president of Dominion
Energy Systems, a developer of cogeneration and
small power production facilities throughout the
United States. Brown lives in Charlottesville, Va.

Edmond B. Gregory III is president of Linton,
Shafer & Company, CPAs in Frederick, Silver
Spring, and Hagerstown, Md. He is also president
of the Frederick Chamber of Commerce and was
president of that city’s first Festival of the Arts.
Donald M. Hathway has been admitted to the

Washington, D.C., accounting firm of Deloitte
Haskins and Sells.

Donald D. Hogle has joined Chemical Bank at its
Manhattan headquarters as a college relations of-
ficer. He lives in New York.

Lt. Cmdr. Karl E. Klinger has transferred from

the aircraft carrier USS Nimitz, where he was —

assigned to the air traffic control center, to the
Naval Weapons Center at China Lake, Calif.
Klinger flies the Navy’s A-6E Intruder aircraft on
weapons development tests and evaluation
missions.

Francis M. Lawrence (See 1971.)

Robert H. Nickel produces videos for the Congres-
sional Cable System and audio cassette programs
for the Congress while working for the Congres-
sional Research Service of the Library of Congress.

He lives in Rockville, Md., and has two sons.

Dr. Mitchel J. Seleznick is assistant professor of
internal medicine at the University of South
Florida at Tampa.

Barnet B. Skelton Jr. is a partner in the Houston,
Texas, law firm of Skelton and Skelton, specializ-
ing in commercial and bankruptcy litigation.
Skelton and his wife, Cathy, have two children,
Emily Anne, 4, and James McLeod, 1%.

1976
MARRIAGE: John A. Cocklereece Jr. and Gina
Denise Cundiff on April 19, 1986, in Winston-
Salem, N.C. Cocklereece is an attorney in
Winston-Salem.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Vernon E. O’Berry Jr. and
Amy Stevenson on Dec. 27, 1985, in Norfolk, Va.
O’Berry has a dental practice in Virginia Beach.

BIRTH: Rev. and Mrs. David T. Anderson, a son,
Matthew Traynham, on May 27, 1986. Anderson
is in his third year of a Ph.D. program in theology,
and lives in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. B. Murphy III, a
son, Paul J. B. IV, on June 1, 1986. Murphy is
area associate for Bennigan’s Restaurant for the
northern Virginia-Maryland-West Virginia area.
Murphy, his wife, Jessecia, and son live in Great
Falls, Va.

Peter R. Cavalier was promoted to vice president
of Citicorp (U.S.A.) at the Iselen, N.J., office. He
lives in Middletown, N.J., with his wife, Marjorie,
and son, Matthew.

Hunter N. Charbonnet is general contractor for
Charbonnet Enterprises in New Orleans. He and
his wife have a 2-year-old son, Hunter Jr.

David W. Denny was promoted to vice president
of Wykeham Farrance, Inc., and is managing the
U.S. sales office of Wykeham Farrance Engineer-
ing Ltd., a London-based manufacturer of
laboratory equipment. Denny lives in Raleigh,
N.C.

Dr. M. Barry Ellis is chief of the otolaryngology,
head and neck surgery department at Blanchfield
Army Community Hospital at Fort Campbell, Ky.
Ellis and his wife, Langhorne, have two daughters,
Sayre Elizabeth, 4, and Margaret Bryan, 1.

Dr. Rushton E. Patterson Jr. is practicing
obstetrics and gynecology in Memphis, Tenn.

William W. Pifer, aide in the Winchester office
of 7th District Republican D. French Slaughter Jr.,
has become campaign manager for Virginia state
Sen. Joe Canada in the 2nd District congressional
seat race.

Marinus Quist is in the oil service industry in Loui-
siana and lives in Covington with his wife, Kathy,
and four children, Juliana, 7, Niko, 4, Krystina,
2, and Kees, 9 months.

John T. Sadler III is training thoroughbred race
horses for Dogwood Farm Inc. Sadler and his wife,
Susan, live in Aiken, S.C., with their 1-year-old
son, J. T.

Kerry D. Scott (See E. Andrew Leonard, ’63.)

1977
MARRIAGE: Wubbo J. Tempel and Conny W.
Castelein on June 20, 1986, in Wageningen, the
Netherlands. Tempel is assistant to the board of
Elsevier Science Publishers. The couple lives in
Oss, the Netherlands.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Christopher A. Cascone,
twin sons, Alex Christopher and Micah Vincent,

on Jan. 18, 1986. Cascone received his master of
divinity degree from the Assemblies of God
Theological Seminary in December 1985 and is
now associate pastor of the Brethren in Christ
Church in Dayton, Ohio.

BIRTH: Robert J. Frank and Mindy Cole, a
daughter, Arielle Lauren, on March 20, 1986. The
family lives in Ann Arbor, Mich.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. Bruce Harvey Jr., a
daughter, Brittany Grace, on June 16, 1986. She
joins a brother, Bryan. Harvey, his wife, Bridget,
and children live in Bristol, Va., where he is direc-
tor of Christian education at Central Presbyterian
Church.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James H. Newton, a
daughter, Anne Mullino, on June 8, 1985. She
joins a sister, Susan Elizabeth, 4. Newton is comp-
troller for Hamilton Group in Jacksonville, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Powell, a son,
Charles Matthews, on Sept. 16, 1985. Powell is
an attorney in Dallas.

William M. Broders has been named a global fund-
ing officer in the global funding division of Inter-
First Bank Dallas.

Aly M. El-Tahry is enrolled in the graduate school
of business at Purdue University.

Joseph T. McMahon Jr. is a vice president with
the McLean Group, Inc., a management con-
sulting firm headquartered in McLean, Va. He
lives in Washington, D.C.

Clayton W. Preston is designing buildings with
Denson & Associates in Atlanta. He and his wife,
Anne, have two children, Paul and Helen.

Capt. Angelo Santella is an ROTC instructor at
St. John’s University in New York.

D. Lowell Sullivan is product manager at Willson
Safety Products in Reading, Pa.

Gregory S. Walden is a deputy associate attorney
general for the U.S. Department of Justice. He
works for associate attorney general Arnold I.
Burns.

James N. Wohlfarth received his master of science
degree in management at California State Univer-
sity, Northridge, in January 1986. He lives in
Saugus, Calif.

Warren R. T. Wolfe is a captain judge advocate
in the U.S. Marine Corps and is stationed at
MCAS Beaufort, S.C. Wolfe and his wife, Vic-
toria, live at Laurel Bay, S.C.

John P. Woodley Jr. (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: Maurice G. Adams and Phyllis

Clinton on April 19, 1986. The couple lives in
Baltimore, Md.

MARRIAGE: Benjamin I. Johns Jr. and Deborah
Waterman on May 25, 1986, in Hot Springs, Va.
They live in Bacova, Va., where Johns is an owner
of Bacova Industries.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. M. Daniel Becque, twin
sons, William Blue and Bradley Thomas, on May
5, 1986, in Ann Arbor, Mich. They join an
18-month-old sister, Simone.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Frank R. Friedman, a son,
Richard Aubrey, on June 9, 1985. The family lives
in Mobile, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Theodore W. Hissey, a son,
William Tyler, on May 30, 1986. Hissey is brand
manager for Diet Pepsi with the Pepsi-Cola Co.
in Purchase, N.Y.

W&L 31

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lee W. Muse Jr., a son,
Lee W. III, on March 10, 1985. Muse is district
sales manager for Metropolitan Circuits of Califor-
nia and lives in Atlanta with his wife, Sandy, and
son. :

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Rogers Jr., a
son, Richard Edward, on Aug. 27, 1984. He joins
a sister, Louise, 6, and brother, Alexander, 3.
Rogers, his wife, Susan, and children live in
Raleigh, N.C.

A. Michael Airheart is manager of the corporate
banking office of NCNB National Bank of Florida
in St. Petersburg, Fla.

Parke L. Bradley is regional director for Jnstitu-
tional Investor magazine in London, covering the
Middle East and selected markets in Europe.
Bradley and his wife, Caroline, and daughter,
Alexandra, recently moved from a 500-year-old
cottage to a 200-year-old town house in Arundel,
West Sussex, England.

Maryellen Flaherty Goodlatte was one of 87 female
attorneys in Virginia recognized by the Virginia
Women Attorneys Association and the
Metropolitan Richmond Women’s Bar Associa-
tion for achieving high positions in the business
and legal communities. Goodlatte is a member of
the law firm of Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann & Dar-
by in Roanoke.

Mark W. Hampton has resigned from active du-
ty with the U.S. Army and joined Hillyard
Chemical Co. in St. Joseph, Mo., as the technical
service representative. :

Seth W. Oserin is the EDP auditor for the Bank
of A. Levy of Oxnard, Calif. Oserin has received
his Certified Information Systems Auditor cer-
tificate. He lives in Santa Paula, Calif.

Eugene C. Perry Jr. (See 1975.)

Dr. John F. Sacco recently completed his residency
in internal medicine and is pursuing post-graduate
training in oncology at New York University
Medical Center. He lives in Parsippany, N.J.

Lloyd R. Sams and his wife, Jane, have moved
back to Chicago from Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates. Sams is assuming a new post in the com-
munications companies lending group for First Na-
tional Bank Chicago.

Jeffrey L. Slatcoff is production manager for Basic
Engineers, Inc., in Johnstown, Pa. He received his
master’s degree in industrial relations from St.
Francis College. He and his wife, Diane, live in
Windber, Pa., with three children, Heidi, 64, Jef-
frey Jr., 4, and Stephen, 1%.

Dr. David T. Trice has completed the first year
of his fellowship in cardiology at Emory Univer-
sity School of Medicine.

1979
MARRIAGE: Robert M. Burkholder Jr. and
Mary Katherine Tate on Nov. 30, 1985, in Ann-
ville, Pa. Burkholder is stationed at Colts Neck,
N.J., at the Naval Weapons Station Earle.

MARRIAGE: John E. Coffey and Suzanne Rain-
ville on July 6, 1985, in Lake George, N.Y. Cof-
fey is practicing law in the Alexandria, Va., firm
of Thomas & Fiske, P.C., where he was made an
owner and director in May 1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Baynham III,
a daughter, Shelley McKay, on Jan. 10, 1986, in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harry F. Hoke III, a son,

James Nicholas, on April 26, 1986, in Richmond,
Va.

320 W&L

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kevin T. McFadden, a son,
Kevin Thomas Jr., on March 27, 1986, in Los
Angeles, Calif. McFadden is an assistant vice presi-
dent in the real estate industries division of Lloyds
Bank California.

Dr. Douglas H. Adams of Asheboro, N.C., was

-awarded his doctor of medicine degree from the

Medical College of Pennsylvania and has begun
his residency in internal medicine at Roanoke
Memorial Hospitals in Roanoke, Va.

Rev. Andrew J. Archie has been named curate to
the Manakin-St. Luke’s Episcopal Church Cure
in Powhatan County, Va. He received his master
of divinity degree in May 1986 from Virginia
Theological Seminary. He and his wife, Margaret-
ta, live in Powhatan.

Jeffrey T. Beneville is an insurance broker for
Carle & Carle, Inc., in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He
specializes in the marine industry. Beneville has
been selected as a crew member by the AMERICA
II syndicate on behalf of The New York Yacht
Club in the 1986-87 America’s Cup competition
in Perth, Australia.

Paul A. Dominick is a partner in the Columbia,
S.C., law firm of Nexsen, Pruet, Jacobs & Pollard.
Dominick and his wife, Sharon, live in Columbia.

2nd Lt. James B. Johnson is enrolled in the USAF
squadron officers school at Las Vegas, Nev.

C. Stephen Jones Jr. was recently named employee
relations manager for Frito-Lay manufacturing
facilities in Pennsylvania. He has also been nam-
ed chairman of the Williamsport, Pa., Employers’
Advisory Council. He lives in Williamsport.

Stephen L. Mangan is practicing law with his
father, John L. Mangan, ’42, in the New Britain,
Conn., firm of Mangan & Mangan.

Richard P. Moran Jr. is a partner and head of the
Washington, D.C., office of the Newport Group,
a compensation and benefits consulting firm based
in Orlando, Fla.

Tracy A: White is a commercial real estate broker
with the Dorsey-Alston Co. in Atlanta. He lives
there with his wife, Gena, and son, Charlie.

1980
MARRIAGE: William E. Browning and Mary
Nell Smitherman on Aug. 17, 1985, in Houston.
Browning graduated from the University of Texas
School of Law in May 1983 and is practicing oil
and gas law with the Pennzoil Co. in Houston.

MARRIAGE: Brian T. Downs and Lisa Ann
Faucheaux on Dec. 28, 1985, in Cincinnati, Ohio.
The couple lives in Cincinnati where Downs is a
construction manager with Williamsburg
Properties.

MARRIAGE: Robert E. Lee and Elaine Elizabeth
Hoarstad on May 11, 1985, in Fergus Falls, Minn.
Lee is assistant vice president in the Energy Depart-
ment at Centerre Bank in St. Louis, Mo.

MARRIAGE: Richard L. Moss and Patricia Susan
Wertman on April 6, 1985, in Medina, N.Y. Moss
was recently promoted to wire editor of the Rome,
N.Y., Daily Sentinel.

MARRIAGE: Carter H. Tucker and Peggy
Brooks on April 12, 1986, in Baltimore. Tucker
is an associate in the Richmond law firm of Oben-
shain, Hinnant, Ellyson, Runkle and Bryant.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Lyons, a son,
Matthew Delfino, on May 19, 1986. Lyons is with
the law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin in
Washington, D.C. The couple lives in McLean,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Keith Sanford, a son,
Charles William, on June 8, 1986, in Chattanooga,
Tenn. Sanford is a vice president in the financial
institutions division for First Tennessee Bank.

Guy S. Brossy has taken a position with Smith,
Barney, Harris Upham in the corporate finance
area. Brossy lives in New York.

Carlo Carlozzi Jr. is working for the Hartford In-
surance Group in Southington, Conn., as an
underwriter/sales associate in automobile and
home owner’s insurance for the American Associa-
tion of Retired Persons.

Mark K. Flynn is city attorney for the city of Win-
chester, Va.

Joan M. Gardner has been named vice president
of legal affairs for the Roanoke division of Blue
Cross and Blue Shield of Virginia.

William L. Garrett Jr. is in private law practice
in Wilmington, Del., and also teaches a course in
legal research at the University of Delaware.

John F. Hope has been promoted by Ferguson
Enterprises to manager/purchasing agent of the
firm’s new distribution center in Orlando, Fla.

Steven C. Johnson received his M.B.A. from the
A. B. Freeman School of Business at Tulane
University in May 1986 and is an associate manage-
ment consultant with Toucheross and Co. in
Houston.

Steven R. Kern is an associate in the tax depart-
ment of the Philadelphia law firm Saul, Weing,
Remick and Saul. Kern lives in Mantua, N.J.

Michael O. Lavitt is the night newsroom super-
visor for New York Pulse, an online electronic ser-
vice owned by The New York Times Co. Lavitt
lives in Jersey City, N.J.

Mark E. Lockhart has been named director of
operations for EMPCO Employment Service.
Lockhart lives in Richland, Wash.

John W. McAlister is community issues specialist
in the corporate communications department at
Duke Power Co. and lives in Charlotte, N.C.

Stephen J. McCabe is living in Buffalo, N.Y., and
is a writer for The Humanist, a bimonthly
magazine published by the American Humanist
Association in Amherst, N.Y.

David E. Meyers has joined the Maryland Cup
Division of the Fort Howard Paper Co. as com-
mercial products marketing manager. He lives in
Lutherville, Md.

Carl W. Miller II received his B.S. degree in in-
dustrial engineering from West Virginia Univer-
sity and is participating in the manufacturing
management program with General Electric
Plastics Group in Selkirk, N.Y.

MARRIAGE: Margaret H. Campbell and Dr.
Richard S. Gitomer on Oct. 19, 1985, in Rich-
mond, Va. The couple lives in Atlanta, Ga.

MARRIAGE: Andrew M. Grisebaum and
Meredith Parsons on May 11, 1985, in Houston.
Grisebaum recently joined Venturcorp, Inc., a
Houston real estate development and services firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas H. Hantzes, a
son, Nicholas Harrison, on Nov. 16, 1985. The
family lives in Arlington, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kevin M. McGuire, a son,
Joseph Reed, on Nov. 24, 1985. He joins a 2-year-
old brother, Ryan Patrick. McGuire is an associate
with the law firm of Jackson, Kelly, Williams and
Palmore and recently joined that firm’s Lexington,

 

 

Ky., office after spending two years in the main
office in Charleston, W.Va.

BIRTH: Anne Scott Porter and Paul E. Porter,
a son, Scott David, on Dec. 31, 1985, in Oklahoma
City, Okla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward T. Taylor II, a son,
Edward Tennet III, on April 25, 1986. Taylor is
a commercial real estate agent and lives in
Charlotte, N.C.

Randolph B. George is working as a group life
counselor with emotionally disturbed adolescents
at Graydon Manor of the National Children’s
Rehabilitation Center in Leesburg, Va. George also
helps manage two large working farms for his
father. He lives in Brunswick, Md.

Cynthia Anne Grace is a public defender with the
Associated Counsel for the Accused in Seattle,
Wash. Grace also sings with the Seattle Women’s
Ensemble and performed in the Opera House in
June.

Dr. Edward L. Mintz is entering his fourth year
at the New York College of Podiatric Medicine
in Manhattan. Mintz lives in Edgewater, N.J.

Kenneth P. Moran is an account executive with
Drexel Burnham Lambert in New Orleans,
specializing in financial futures and options.

William Cope Moyers is special projects reporter
for the Dallas Times Herald. The emphasis of
Moyers’ new assignment is on Texas government-
al issues.

Carrie G. Otey lives in Portland, Ore., and is pros-
ecuting felony offenses for the district attorney’s
office there. He is president-elect of the
Multnomah County Bar Association/Young
Lawyers’ Section.

John A. Pritchett is a petroleum geophysicist with
Amoco Production Co. and lives in New Orleans
with his wife, Kathryn.

John K. Saunders is practicing law with the Atlanta
firm of Swift, Currie, McGhee & Hiers.

Edward J. Vorwerk is working at AT&T’s eastern
region headquarters in Rye, N.Y. He is responsi-
ble for the region’s office automation strategy/im-
plementation, system administration, and develop-
ment of software applications.

Henry P. Wall is a lawyer in the Army stationed
at Fort Campbell, Ky. Wall, his wife, and their
three children just moved to Fort Campbell from
Washington, D.C., where he had been with the
office of chief counsel for the Army Corps of
Engineers.

Dr. Charles H. Warner has begun his residency
in radiology at Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, Md.

Jonathan R. Yale is a development supervisor in
data processing for Aetna Life & Casualty in Hart-

ford, Conn.

1982
MARRIAGE: Frank D. Agnew and Jamie J. May
on Oct. 12, 1985. Agnew graduated from Tulane
University’s M.B.A. program and is working as
an investment banker with Howard, Weil,
Labouisse, Friedrichs in New Orleans.

MARRIAGE: Julia G. Thigpen and John B. Cren-
shaw on Oct. 26, 1986. She is an associate with
Brown, Todd & Heyburn in Louisville, Ky.

MARRIAGE: Michael J. Malesardi and Kelly
O’Dell on Dec. 28, 1985, in Washington, D.C. The
couple is living in Arlington, Va.

MARRIAGE: Brian J. Noonan and Rene Poag
on April 26, 1986, in Lexington, N.C.

Cyrus R. Alexander owns and operates a central
vacuum, intercom, and security system business
along with operating a cattle and tobacco farm in
Nicholasville, Ky.

Guy Arcidiacono is an assistant district attorney
for the Suffolk County, Long Island, N.Y.,
District Attorney’s office.

Frederick A. Boyd is living in Alexandria, Va., and
working as an architect.

Stephen P. Burrington has been promoted to in-
ternational market specialist for the international
banking department at United Bank of Denver.
Burrington is working on his M.B.A. at the
University of Colorado-Denver.

W. Scott Dacus graduated from the University of
Virginia School of Medicine in May 1986 and has
begun his residency in family practice at Richland
Memorial Hospital in Columbia, S.C.

Barry R. Dunn received his M.B.A. from the Fu-
qua School of Business at Duke University in May
1986 and is an associate in the investment bank
of Bankers Trust Co. of New York. Dunn lives
in Kinnelon, N.J.

David B. Favrot Jr. lives in Mooresville, N.C., and
is in the apparel business as a manufacturer of
women’s and children’s clothing.

R. Andrew Finkle graduated from the University
of Virginia School of Law in May 1985 and is
associated with the Brooks Pierce law firm in
Greensboro, N.C.

J. Stuart Miller, a relationship manager and senior
account officer with Citibank’s Houston office,
is attending the Harvard Business School.

Capt. Kelly J. Niernberger is currently the securi-
ty and intelligence officer for the 6th Battalion,
10th Field Artillery, in Bamberg, Germany.

Jonathan H. Pakula is an account executive with
E. F. Hutton & Co. in Norfolk and lives there with
his wife, Amy.

1st Lt. Hollis W. Plimpton III is part of the 24th
MAU, the Marine landing force of the 6th Fleet.
The development is for six months.

Scott B. Puryear and his wife, Katie, and daughter,
Maggie, are living in Madison, Va., while he at-
tends the University of Virginia School of Law.

Charles F. Randolph is a banking representative
in the energy group of Texas Commerce
Bank-Houston.

Robert A. Willis received his B.S. degree in con-
struction management from Arizona State Univer-
sity and is employed by Lewis C. Powers & Sons
in Princeton, N.J.

R. Blake Witherington is assistant vice president
for Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York.

Robert K. Wittpenn has finished his first year of
study at the Darden School of Business at the
University of Virginia and spent the summer in
product management with the American Chicle
Division of Warner-Lambert.

1983

MARRIAGE: David K. Friedfeld and Vicki Seltzer
on June 8, 1986, in Long Island, N.Y. Friedfeld
works at Clear Vision Optical, a manufacturer of
optical products. The couple lives in Manhattan.

MARRIAGE: Linda A. Klein and Michael S.
Neuren in September 1985 in Hawaii. The couple
lives in Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: Townsend Oast Jr. and Sally Ann
Woody on July 19, 1986, in Lexington, Va. Oast
is an account manager with Marsh and McLen-

nan, Inc., in Washington, D.C. The couple resides
in McLean, Va.

MARRIAGE: Christopher B. Power and
Elizabeth Ann Slonneger on May 10, 1986, in Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va. The couple received their law
degrees from West Virginia University on May 18
and will live in Charleston where they will both
be associated with the firm of Robinson and
McElwee.

MARRIAGE: Henry F. Sewell and Anne Frier-
man on May 11, 1985. Sewell, a graduate of the
University of Richmond’s T.C. Williams School
of Law, is an associate with the firm of Hicks,
Maloof & Campbell in Atlanta.

George Edward Crady graduated from the South
Texas College of Law and is associated with the
Houston firm of Crady & Peden.

J. Ambler Cusick is an account manager with Con-
sortium Communication International, Inc., in
New York.

John F. Delehanty, a stockbroker with Rooney
Pace, Inc., in Manhattan, recently helped organize
the Talking Heads’ American concert tour with
David Byrne.

Eric R. Fife is co-founder of Direct Marketing
Management, a marketing communications firm
in Denver. He is finishing work on a master’s
degree in mass communications at the University
of Denver.

William M. France Jr. is an account executive with
WWNK Radio and lives in Cincinnati, Ohio, with
his wife, Catherine.

Brian L. Hanson is assistant treasurer for United
Savings Bank in Vienna, Va., and lives in
Rockville, Md. .

Rosemary R. Harris has been appointed a
magistrate for the city of Richmond.

Brad F. Huston has been promoted to account ex-
ecutive with Conrail and has been assigned to that
company’s Cincinnati office.

Kenneth W. Johnstone is in his fourth year of
medical school at the Medical University of South
Carolina.

C. Stuart Kiehne is a commercial banking officer
at the Maryland National Bank in Annapolis, Md.,
and lives there with his wife, Susan.

Hunter L. Martin III is an attorney with the law
firm of Calarne, Lineberger & Graham in
Houston.

Catherine O’Connor is associated with the
Portland, Maine, law firm of Bernstein, Shur,
Sawyer and Nelson. She works in the municipal
and administrative law department.

C. Blair Pritchett III has a Honda auto franchise
in Albany, Ga.

Jackson R. Sharman III graduated in May 1986
from The Writers’ Program of Washington
University in St. Louis with a master of fine arts
in writing. One of his short stories, ‘‘Saint Valen-
tine’s Eve,’’ appeared in the Winter 1986 issue of
Quarterly West, and an article, ‘‘The Sanctuary:
French Strategic Nuclear Policy,’’ was included
in a collection entitled In Search of Security: The
Defence Policies of China, France, Japan, and In-
dia, published in the spring by The Graduate In-
stitute of International Studies, Geneva
(Switzerland). Sharman entered Harvard Law
School in September.

Robert R. Smith Jr. graduated from the Univer-
sity of Texas School of Law in May 1986.

W&L = 33

 

Stephen C. Warren is associated with the American
_ Sociological Association in Washington, D.C., and
lives in Arlington with his wife, Wendy.

1984
MARRIAGE: Robert G. Buchanan Jr. and
Elizabeth Risenhoover in June 1985. Buchanan is
in law school at Southern Methodist University and
lives in Dallas.

MARRIAGE: G. Richard Grainger and Amelia
Grace May on June 21, 1986, in Tyler, Texas. The
couple lives in Tyler.

MARRIAGE: James A. Skinner III and Lisa Anne
Roaden on April 19, 1986, in Nashville, Tenn.
Skinner is a commercial loan officer at Nashville
City Bank.

MARRIAGE: Barthe A. Vandoorn and Kerry A.
McCoy on May 17, 1986, in Fairfax, Va. Van-
doorn is an engineer with Planning Research Cor-
poration’s Government Information System Divi-
sion. The couple lives in Falls Church.

Martin J. Bechtold is enrolled in the Ohio Univer-
sity Sports Administration and Facility Manage-
ment graduate program.

Lance C. Cawley is in the commercial loan officer
training program at the First National Bank of
Maryland in Baltimore. Cawley is also working on
an M.B.A. in finance at Loyola College.

James N. Humphreys is a third-year law student.

at W&L. During the past summer Humphreys
clerked at the law offices of Penn, Stuart, Eskridge
& Jones in Abingdon, Va.

Richard B. Jones Jr. is assigned to VII Corps as
long range surveillance platoon leader in West
Germany.

Paul M. Kuveke III has completed Manufacturers
Hanover management training program and is
working in the North American Division. Kuveke
lives in Bronxville, N.Y.

Steven E. Lewis has been elected trust officer in
the Institution] Funds Management Group of
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., N.A., in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

T. Garic Moran is working as a stockbroker with
Smith Barney Harris Upham, Inc., in Atlanta.

Donald W. Richardson is a hydrogeologist for Geo
Engineering, Inc., in Denville, N.J.

James M. Smith completed graduate studies in
mathematics education at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and is teaching math and
computer science at Cummings High School in
Burlington, N.C. Smith and his wife, Catherine,
and their son, Paul, live in Burlington.

Richard C. Swagler Jr. is city editor of the
Alabama Journal, an afternoon daily newspaper
in Montgomery, Ala.

1985

Stephen T. Carey is with the National Broadcasting
Co. as a manpower scheduling coordinator of
technical operations for both local and network
television in New York, N.Y.

Rebecca E. Casperson is associated with the law
firm of Grosse, Rossetti, Chelus & Herdzike in
Buffalo, N.Y.

Robert P. Dorais is in the Corporate Profit Plan-
ning Department at Chesebrough-Pond’s Manage-
ment Information Center in Trumbull, Conn.
Dorais also performs as a tenor soloist in the First
Congregational Church of Litchfield and lives in
Waterbury, Conn.

34. W&L

Jeffrey T. Hirsch is a second-year graduate stu-
dent in the master’s of international business pro-
gram at the University of South Carolina.

David M. Hollis is an accountant for Virginia Im-
ports, Inc., in Alexandria, Va.

_Michael C. Lord is in his second year as a law

faculty scholar at Wake Forest University.

Kevin P. Marrie is an account representative for
Guardian Planners, a financial planning firm in
Willoughby, Ohio.

Thomas N. McKinstry is an international bank-
ing representative with the Asia/Pacific Group of
First Wachovia Corporate Services, Inc.
McKinstry lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.

2nd Lt. John D. Mixon is in the Army Medical
Service Corps stationed at Schofield Barracks,
Hawaii.

Clarke H. Morledge is a systems programmer for
Systems Development Corp. at the NASA/Langley
Research and Development Center in Hampton,
Va. Morledge, who lives in Williamsburg, is also
a volunteer leader in Young Life, a Christian
ministry to high school students.

James E. Noble is a news and sports reporter and
anchor for WGXA-TV in Macon, Ga.

Charles M. Phillips is a financial analyst in the
capital markets sector of Marine Midland Bank
in New York, N.Y.

Constance H. Pierce lives in Richmond and works
for the law firm of Hunton and Williams.

William L. Reed Jr. is a research analyst at Katz
Communications in New York, N.Y.

Samuel M. Riley is a paralegal with the
Washington, D.C., firm of Patton, Boggs & Blow.
He lives in Westminster, Md.

John K. Saunders (See 1981).

1986

Michael P. Allen is a reporter for the
Fredericksburg, Va., Free Lance-Star.

William P. Ewing is attending the University of
South Carolina Law School and lives in Colum-
bia, S.C.

 

In Memoriam

 

1914

Joseph Goodloe Jackson, retired district sales
representative of Corn Products Co., died July 20,
1986, in Potomac, Md. He was named ‘‘Mr.
Western Maryland”’ in 1969 by the Independent
Retail Food Dealers Association for his years of
service to the association and more than 40 years
of community service. He was a member of the
Retail Grocer’s Association, Alleghany County
Board of Education, board of trustees of
Alleghany Community College, Lions Club, and
the board of the YMCA. He was one of the
founders of W&L’s Upper Potomac alumni

chapter.

Sam Houston Showell died June 6, 1986. He was
a retired engineer and was president of White
House Beach, Inc., a large mobile home communi-
ty of 420 tenants in Millsboro, Del.

1917

Joseph Richard Campbell, retired managing part-
ner of the Birch Valley Lumber Co., died April
17, 1986, in Marion, Va. Campbell had served as
director of the First National Exchange Bank of
Virginia and on the Marion Town Council. He was
a member of the Kiwanis Club and the
Presbyterian Church.

1927

Robert Wetzel Orchard, owner of the Orchard
Ranch in Ten Sleep, Wyo., died Jan. 10, 1985. A
rancher for more than 50 years, Orchard was a
member of the American National and the Wyom-
ing Stock Growers Associations. He was active
with the Gottsche Rehabilitation Center and a
charter member of the Wyoming Pari-Mutual
Commission.

Edwin Watson Richardson, secretary and treasurer
of Tallahassee Motors, Inc., died April 17, 1986.
Richardson was a director of the First and Second
National banks of Tallahassee and Tallahassee
Memorial Hospital and a member of St. John’s
Episcopal Church.

George William Summerson, former mayor of Ab-
ingdon and Bristol, Va., died July 4, 1986. Sum-
merson, who began his 50-year career in hotel
management in 1929, was president and general
manager of The Martha Washington Inn in Ab-
ingdon, and served as president of the Southern
Hotel Association, the Virginia Hotel-Motel
Association, and the Virginia Travel Council. He
served as mayor of Bristol from 1951 to 1957 and
mayor of Abingdon from 1972 to 1978 and was
also chairman of the Mount Rogers Planning
District. Summerson was a former director of the
Virginia Chamber of Commerce. He was active
in alumni work at Washington and Lee, serving
as president of the Appalachian alumni chapter
and class agent. He was a member of the Abingdon
United Methodist Church.

1929
John Mayhugh Luft of Pittsburgh, Pa., died April
29, 1986. He received his B.A. and B.F.A. from
Yale University and was an architect and struc-
tural engineer with Wiesenberger Associates.

Edwin Flood Madison, attorney in Bastrop, La.,
died Nov. 22, 1985. Madison received his law
degree from Louisiana State University Law
School and was associated with the firm of
Madison, Madison and Fuller with offices in
Bastrop and Monroe. He served as lieutenant
governor of Kiwanis International and president
of Morehouse Country Club, Episcopal Men’s
Club, and Bastrop Kiwanis Club.

1931

David Walter Davenport, retired chairman of
Davenport Motor Co., died June 12, 1986, in
Rocky Mount, N.C. He opened a Pontiac dealer-
ship in March 1929, making it the oldest franchise
in the Carolinas and the fifth oldest in the nation.
The Cadillac dealership that he began in 1933 is
the oldest in Maryland, Virginia, and the
Carolinas. He was president of Davenport Invest-
ment Co., a charter member and past director of
the N.C. Auto Dealers’ Association, a former
member of the Pontiac National Dealer’s Coun-
cil, and a retired director of Peoples Bank and
Home Savings and Loan Association. Davenport
was a former director of the Rocky Mount Area
Chamber of Commerce, former treasurer of the
Rocky Mount Kiwanis Club and the Rocky Mount
Business Development Authority, and a member
of the First United Methodist Church of Rocky
Mount.

 

 

1932

Ernest Barger Miller Jr. of Tulsa, Okla., a former
president of Tulsa’s Skelly Oil Co., died June 26,
1986, at his summer home near Deer Lake, Minn.
After attending W&L, he went on to graduate with
a petroleum engineering degree from the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma in 1930. Miller began his career
in the oil business as a field engineer for Tidewater
Associated Oil Co. in east Texas and later was pro-
moted to vice president. He became president of
Skelly Oi. in Tulsa and later was named chief
operations officer at Getty Oil in Tulsa. He retired
in 1975. Miller was on the board of the First Na-
tional Bank and Trust Co. and the American
Petroleum Institute and was past president of the
Houston Petroleum Club. In 1973, he was in-
ducted into the College of Engineering and
Physical Sciences Hall of Fame at the University

of Texas.
1933

Stanley St. Clair Mundy of Tappahannock, Va.,
died Sept. 26, 1985.

1936

Herbert Henry Bauer of West Hempstead, N.Y.,
died May 4, 1986.

1937

Kerford Armstrong Marchant died March 13,
1986, in Reedville, Va. At the time of his death,
Marchant was owner and captain of a charter
fishing boat in Reedville. He retired in 1965 from
the insurance business. He served in the U.S.
Marine Corps during World War II and was a
member of Atlantic Lodge #2.

William Arnold Young III, county attorney for
Franklin County, Ky., died May 18, 1986. Young
began his law practice in Frankfort, Ky., in 1939.
His career was interrupted by World War II, when
he served as a B-17 bomber pilot and was a
prisoner of war in Germany for 15 months. He
returned to Frankfort in 1945 and was elected to
his first term as Franklin County attorney, a posi-
tion he held for 36 years. Young was a member
of the Kentucky Bar Association and past presi-
dent of the Franklin County Bar Association,
Frankfort Lions Club, and Frankfort Country

Club.
1938

Charlies William Karraker Jr., retired captain for
Pan American Airways, died June 2, 1986, in Red-
ding, Conn. Karraker practiced law in Louisville
from 1938 until 1941 and became a pilot for Pan
American in 1942. He served as captain for 31
years and was active throughout his working career
with the Air Line Pilots Association. Karraker
served on the boards of the Mark Twain Library,
Connecticut Audubon Society, and Northwest
Connecticut Health Systems Agency. He was also
president and a director of the Redding Open
Lands, Inc., for 17 years and a member of the
Housatonic Area Mental Health Council and
Statewide Health Coordinating Council.

George Stevenson Kemp Jr., former vice mayor
of Richmond, Va., and a retired investment
broker, died June 24, 1986. He entered the in-
vestments business as a board chalker at an in-
vestments office in the Broad-Grace Arcade and
joined Abbott, Proctor & Paine, Inc., as a clerk
in 1939. He became a general partner in 1947, and
was named vice president in 1970, when the firm
merged with Paine, Webber, Inc., and became
Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, Inc. Kemp
retired in 1976. He served on the Richmond City
Council from July 1978 through June 1984 and
was vice mayor from 1978 until 1980. He was a

former chairman of the Southeast group of the In-
vestment Bankers Association of America and a
former president of the Richmond Society of
Financial Analysts, the Financial Analysts Federa-
tion, and the Bond Club of Virginia. He was a
member and former governor of the Association
of Stock Exchange Firms, a former president of
the National Federation of Financial Analysts, and
former president of the Richmond Rotary Club.
Kemp was a lifelong member, elder, and trustee
of the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church.

1939

William Arnold Young III (See 1937).

1942

John Lloyd Dorsey, senior partner in the law firm
of Dorsey, Sullivan, King and Gray, died May 28,
1986, in Henderson, Ky. Dorsey served in World
War II with the 95th Infantry Division and was
awarded a battlefield commission and the Bronze
Star. He was past president of the Henderson
Rotary Club, member of the American Trial
Lawyers Association, trustee of the Henderson
Presbyterian Church, and a member of the Foun-
dation Board of Deaconess Hospital.

1943

Henry Bowen Crockett Jr. of Alexandria, Va.,
died March 10, 1986. Crockett entered the Air
Corps during World War II and flew B-17s. After
the war he returned to W&L to get his law degree.
He was in private practice for 31 years and retired
in 1980. Crockett was a member of Pi Kappa
Alpha fraternity and the American Bar Associa-
tion. He was a member of Alexandria’s
Westminster Presbyterian Church, where he taught
Sunday school.

1946

Rev. David Vance Guthrie Jr., vicar of three
Episcopal churches in the Durham, N.C., vicini-
ty, died July 4, 1986. A graduate of Episcopal
Theological Seminary, Guthrie taught at the
University of the South before becoming ordain-
ed. He served churches in Henderson, Greensboro,
Sanford and Asheboro, N.C. Guthrie had been a
member of the staff at the Duke University Library
since 1972.

1947

Edward Jay Brooks of New York, N.Y., died Aug.
2, 1985. At the time of his death, he was advertis-
ing manager of Dana Parfums.

John Lloyd Dorsey (See 1942.)
David Vance Guthrie Jr. (See 1946.)

1948

Henry Bowen Crockett Jr. (See 1943.)

Edward McGehee Thompson, president of Ed-
ward M. Thompson Agency, Inc., in Mont-
gomery, Ala., died June 2, 1986. Thompson was
in partnership with the wholesale grocery firm of
Hudson and Thompson, Inc., for 13 years before
joining the Irby A. Jones real estate agency. He
was a member of the Montgomery Country Club,
Kiwanis Club, and the First Methodist Church of
Montgomery.

1950

Dr. Robert Hutcheson Mauck, retired physician,
died in Martinsville, Va., on Dec. 13, 1985. Mauck
was a graduate of Johns Hopkins Medical School
and received his orthopedic surgery training at the

 

Medical College of Virginia. He practiced in Rich-
mond before moving to Martinsville in 1968 to
practice orthopedic surgery. In 1980 he became
associated with the DuPont plant and worked in
the medical department there until he retired in
1984 because of ill health. Mauck served in the
Navy during World War II and was a member of
the Virginia Orthopedic Society and the Patrick
Henry Medical Society. He was a member and past
elder of the First Presbyterian Church in Mar-
tinsville and a member of the Martinsville Rotary

Club.
1952

David Dayton Merrill of Princeton Junction, N.J.,
died Feb. 23, 1985.

1954

Joseph Taylor Meals, chairman and chief executive
of the Taylor Chair Co. in Bedford, Ohio, died
June 1, 1986. In 1954 he joined Taylor Chair,
which was started in 1816 by his great-great-great-
grandfather and is the oldest continuously
operating company in the Western Reserve and
thought to be the oldest furniture manufacturer
in the nation. Meals was promoted to vice presi-
dent of sales in 1958 and held many executive posi-
tions in the company before being named chair-
man of the board and chief executive officer in
1980. He was a trustee of the Community Hospital
of Bedford and the Cleveland Society for Contem-
porary Art and was former president of the
Cleveland Art Association. He was a member of
the American Furniture Collectors and was an en-
dowment fellow of the Cleveland Museum of Art.

1981

Thomas Motte Savage of Charleston, S.C., died
in a boating accident on the Intracoastal Water-
way in Charleston on Aug. 1, 1986. Savage had
recently finished his first year as a resident in
anesthesiology at the Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston. At W&L he was a member
of Phi Beta Kappa and graduated magna cum
laude.

Friends

Mary Moody Northen, a major benefactress of
Washington and Lee, died August 26, 1986, in
Galveston, Texas,
following a lengthy ill-
ness. She was 94. A na-
tionally known financier
and philanthropist, she
was matriarch of a fami-
ly financial empire in
southeast Texas. Follow-
ing the death of her
father in 1954, Mrs. Nor-
then assumed the leader-
ship of more than 52 major corporations that deal
principally in the fields of banking, insurance,
printing, hotels, cotton, and ranches. She made
generous gifts to both of Lexington’s institutions
of higher education. Her late father was a graduate
of Virginia Military Institute, which has received
more than $3 million in gifts from her. Her gifts
to Washington and Lee have totaled more than
$500,000, including $350,000 toward construction
of the undergraduate library building. The library’s
100-seat Northen Auditorium is named in her
honor. Through her foundation, she also donated
gifts for the development of the library’s exten-
sive audio-visual center. In 1983, a gift of $90,000
was used to purchase photo-typesetting systems for
W&L, VMI, and Hollins College. The type in this
magazine is from that system.

W&L 35

 

And Furthermore

 

Letters to the Editor

 

More on Hitler

EDITOR:

Professor Henry Turner invited his audience
to consider his ‘‘idiosyncratic theory’’ that Adolph
Hitler is ‘‘the greatest figure of the 20th century”’
(‘‘The Hitler Quandary,’’ Alumni Magazine,
May/June, 1986). I accepted this invitation, and
I have found this theory fallacious on two fun-
damental counts.

The bias supporting Turner’s argument is most
evident in Turner’s list of other candidates for the
title of ‘‘greatest figure.’’ They are, to a man,
politicians. Apparently, Turner believes that the
measure of a figure’s greatness is directly related
to his (or her?) degree of influence and, related
to this premise, that no field of human endeavor
affords one the opportunity to influence the lives
of other human beings as does politics.

I believe Turner’s thesis is essentially false, on
both counts. I suspect that each and every one of
us has been strongly influenced personally by men
and women who are by no stretch of anyone’s im-
agination great figures. Circumstances merely gave
these figures the power to affect our lives—for
good or ill. And, just as certainly, each and every
one of us is influenced every day of our lives (albeit
less directly, perhaps) by the work of men and
women in fields other than politics. What about,
for instance, the fields of art, industry, science,
medicine, religion, and economics?

I am suggesting that to be a great figure one
must be, first of all, a human being. And a human
being is, by definition, a moral being. Adolph
Hitler—who mistakenly assumed the right to rip
children from their parents and who believed he
could determine who was worthy to live and who
was not on the basis of a theory of racial purity
and supremacy (a rather idiosyncratic theory, for-
tunately) that has no justification in objective
fact—was certainly not a moral being. If Hitler
is great in any sense he is a great demagogue.
Perhaps, even, the greatest demagogue of this
troubled century. But this is about the greatest
claim that one can justly make for Hitler.

I would like to extend upon Professor Turner’s
list of candidates for greatness in the twentieth cen-
tury: in art, Yeats, Sartre, and Picasso; in industry,
Ford and Watson; in science, Einstein; in
medicine, Salk; in religion, Schweitzer, M. L. King
Jr., and Mother Theresa; in economics, J. M.
Keynes. This is just a beginning, meant to suggest
that the world in which some human beings live
is a far, far greater world than the stifling little
world in which a little man like Hitler enjoyed an
hour or two in the sun.

Ironically, Hitler himself acknowledges his
relative insignificance in his fallacious theory of
racial purity and supremacy, for both Moses and
Jesus of Nazareth were—in perverse ways, to be
sure—influential in the evolution of Hitler’s
thought. It appears that the influence of Moses
is, after all, greater than that of Pharaoh. And
Jesus of Nazareth has influenced more lives than
Augustus Caesar ever did, even in that world con-
queror’s wildest and most ephemeral dreams.

LEONARD A. BLANCHARD, 769
Dallas

36 —W&L

Questioning signatories

EDITOR:

On June 24, 1986, a letter signed by 44 law
school deans was sent to Senators Dole and Byrd,
urging that the Senate not consent to the nomina-
tion of Dan Manion to be a judge of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. I was
both surprised and saddened to see the name of
Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the W&L School
of Law, listed among the signatories of that letter.

If Dean Kirgis personally feels that Mr. Ma-
nion is not qualified to serve as a Court of Ap-
peals judge, he certainly has a right to that opin-
ion. And if Dean Kirgis, acting as a private citizen,
wants to send letters to members of the Senate urg-
ing that Mr. Manion’s nomination not be confirm-
ed, that, too, is his right, and I would not begrudge
him that right. Even a letter opposing Mr. Ma-
nion’s confirmation signed by Dean Kirgis in his
capacity of a professor of law at W&L would cer-
tainly be a legitimate exercise of the right of
academic freedom.

However, a letter opposing Mr. Manion’s con-
firmation, signed by Professor Kirgis in his capaci-
ty as dean of the School of Law, is quite another
matter. To many uninformed and unsophisticated
members of the general public, such a letter im-
plies that the entire University community—
faculty, administrators, students, and possibly
even alumni—opposes Mr. Manion’s confirma-
tion. Perhaps there are some faculty members and
administrators who do not oppose Mr. Manion’s
confirmation, and certainly there are many
students and alumni who do not share Dean Kirgis’
views as to this matter.

Although the letter opposing Mr. Manion’s
confirmation which Dean Kirgis signed does, in
its very last sentence, contain the statement, ‘‘We
are writing in our individual, rather than in our
institutional capacities. . . ,’’ other language con-
tained in the letter belies this lame disclaimer. For
instance, the letter’s second sentence states, ‘‘As

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we TT

law school deans, as lawyers, and as citizens, we
urge that the Senate decline to consent to this
nomination . . . ’’ (Emphasis added.) Moreover,
if the signatories of this letter had not been in-
terested in lending the prestige of their positions
of law school deans to the effort to block Dan Ma-
nion’s confirmation, they could simply have in-
dicated in their letter that they are law school pro-
fessors or faculty members, instead of indicating
that they are law school deans. Aside from the
language of the letter itself, none of the news
reports concerning this letter indicated that the law
school deans who signed it had acted in anything
other than their official capacities of deans.

I personally feel that Dan Manion will be an
excellent addition to the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit, and I resent Dean Kirgis
expressing his personal views concerning Mr. Ma-
nion’s nomination in such a manner as to convey
to the general public the possible impression that
the entire University community opposes his con-
firmation. It is apparent that those leading the ef-
fort to block Mr. Manion’s confirmation are not
truly motivated by concern as to Mr. Manion’s
qualifications. Rather, their real concern is that
the liberal orthodoxy which has pervaded both the
federal judicial system and law schools for so many
years is about to be broken and swept aside. To
them, the drive to block Mr. Manion’s confirma-
tion is a last ditch effort to prevent this from hap-
pening and a possible springboard from which to
launch future unfounded attacks on other conser-
vative but well-qualified Reagan judicial nominees.

Recently, the University’s Board of Trustees
voted not to dispose of the University’s
stockholdings in firms doing business in South
Africa. In so voting, the Board wisely chose not
to involve the University in the current brouhaha
concerning the internal policies of the South
African government. I think that in the future,
Dean Kirgis would be well advised to follow the
lead of the Board of Trustees and refrain from us-
ing the prestige attached to his position of dean
of the School of Law as a means of advancing his
personal views concerning highly controversial
issues.

JOHN E. GREGORICH, 777, ’81L
Auburn, Ill.
[Dean Kirgis replies: ‘‘I think it is proper for deans
and other officials to state their positions on mat-
ters of particular concern to them, and to iden-
tify themselves, so long as they do not say or im-
ply that they are representing an institutional posi-
tion. In fact, as Mr. Gregorich has acknowledg-
ed, the deans who signed the Manion letter were
careful to state clearly that they did not speak for
their institutions.

“T am troubled by Mr. Gregorich’s
characterization of the signers’ motivations. I do
not know the true motivations of the other signers.
My own motivations had much more to do with
my assessment of Mr. Manion’s qualifications than
with my liberal orthodoxy. At the risk of getting
into more trouble, I would like to add that I sup-
port President Reagan’s nomination of Antonin
Scalia, a highly qualified conservative, to the
Supreme Court.’’]

 

    

rom the
W&L Bookstore

    

 

 

          

A1 Half-liter beer stein with pewter A2 Exact down-scale model of a Glass stein, made in Italy, A4 The original German Pilsner.

lid, with the W&L crest in full col- beer stein, designed to keep hot shipped to Germany where the W&L crest in full color. 9%’ tall,
or, trimmed with 23 karat gold. drinks hot. 4%%4’’ high, holds 8 oz. W&L crest in full color and pewter holds 11 0z. Made in Germany.
6%16'' high, holds 16 oz. Made in Made in Germany. $12.95 lid are added. 7’’ high, holds $7.25

Germany. $15.95 14 0z. $15.50 7

Because of an international shipping problem, our W&L mugs were not available to photograph.

 

     

es

 

 

 

AS W&L Tray by BACOVA GUILD, 11’ x 17’’. Dark mahogany wood A7 Ballpoint pen with multi-color seal on top. Life time guarantee. Uses
frame, crest in full color. Made in Virginia. $45.00 . Standard Cross refill. In gift box. $15.00

A6 W&L Ice Bucket by BACOVA GUILD, 2 gallon capacity with the crest A8 Silver plated Souvenir spoon, with crest in royal blue. $7.00

on both sides. Leather handles, solid wood top, 12’’ high. Made in AQ WAL letter opener, with blue W&L crest and gold plated trim. Black
Virginia. $65.00 case included. $4.25

A10 W&L marble paperweight, with the W&L seal and gold plated trim.
$5.75

 

 

B1 Hooded sweatshirt in gray/navy crest by ARTEX.
50% polyester/38% cotton/12% rayon. Grey only.
Sizes S, M, L, XL. $23.95

B2 Our heaviest sweatshirt, and most popular, by
CHAMPION. 80% cotton/8% acrylic/3% rayon. Grey
only. Made in USA. Size S, M, L. XL. These sweat-
shirts are cut very large! $32.95

B3 Our heaviest hooded sweatshirt by CHAMPION.
89% cotton/8% acrylic/3% rayon. Choose from grey |
or navy. Made in USA. Sizes S, M, L. XL. These are
cut very large! $39.95

B4 Rugby Shirt, navy/white and grey stripes and |
embroidered Washington and Lee. 100% cotton. Made
in USA. Sizes S, M, L, XL. $45.00

 

 

 

B5 W&L 100% Silk Tie, choice of navy or grey, with
white crest. $21.95

B6 WA&L Tie, silk/polyester tie with Colonnade.
Navy/red stripes. $17.95

B7 ‘“‘DUBYUHNELL”’ (say it out loud) T-shirt by
WOLF. 50% cotton/50% polyester. White only. Sizes
S, M, L, XL. $7.50

B8 W&L LAW T-shirt by WOLF. Navy with white trim.
50% cotton/50% polyester. Made in USA. Sizes
S, M, L, XL. $7.50

B9 Lost your College Ring? Ask us for information and
prices on a new one. We deal with ARTCARVED and
JOSTEN.

B10 W&L twill hat, available in navy, royal or grey. $7.50
Also available in corduroy in navy, royal, grey or tan. $8.50

B11 T-shirt with W&L and crest by VELVA SHEEN.
50% polyester/38% cotton/12% rayon. Colors are grey/
navy crest or white/navy crest. Sizes S$, M, L, XL. $7.95

B12 Children’s T-shirt by VELVA SHEEN as above.
50% cotton/50% polyester. Colors are navy/white
crest, grey/navy crest or white/navy crest. Sizes XS
(2-4) [no grey], S (6-8), M (10-12), L (14-16). $5.95

B13 NEW!! Washington and Lee blazer buttons in 24
karat gold plate. 3 coat buttons plus 3 for each
sleeve. $40.00

B14 Child’s deep royal blue sweatshirt and matching
pants/white trim by ARTEX. 100% acrylic. Made in
USA. Sizes 6 mo., 12 mo., 18 mo. $15.95. Sizes 2T,
3T, 4T $17.95. Sold in sets only.

B15 Child's sweatshirt by ARTEX. 50% cotton/50%
cresian. Navy only with the W&L logo. Made in USA.
Sizes Juvenile S (3-4), M (5-6), L (7-8) $10.95.
Youth S (6-8), M (10-12), L (14-16) $12.95

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
  

+ eae ee

 

; ;
| t e/

a

 
   

a4

B24

~

B16 Wedgewood plates, set of four scenes: the Chapel, Colonnade, Lee-Jackson house
and an overview of the campus. 1034’’ diameter in blue and white. $100.00 the set of 4.

B17 W&L 12/2 oz. etched highball glass. $4.75

B18 W&L 131% oz. etched double old-fashioned. $4.75
B19 W&L 8% oz. etched old-fashioned glass. $4.75
B20 W&L 2 oz. etched shot glass. $2.95

B21 Clear acrylic high ball with navy and white trim. 14 02. $4.75 or set of 4 for
$20.00 in box.

B22 Matching acrylic old-fashioned glass $4.75 each or set of 4 for $20.00 in box.
B23 Banner in navy wool felt with white trim and crest. 24°’ by 12’’. $14.55
B24 W&L Pennants in wool felt. Large (30’') $5.74, Medium (12’’) $3.30 Small (9°’) $1.96

B25 Cross Stitch — The W&L crest in counted cross stitch. Kit includes fabric,
instructions and embroidery floss. $9.99

B26 Needlepoint kit — The colonnade in a 14°’ by 14’’ kit. 100% wool yarns included. $29.95

B27 Clear glass tankard, 25 oz. with blue W&L. $5.75

B28 Tall (7'/2) frosted plastic mug with athletic logo and Generals. Holds 32 0z. $1.90
B29 W&L grain cups. White with multi-color crest. 5 for $3.20
B30 NEW! W&L GOLF BALLS. Spalding. 3 to a pack with the W&L logo. $6.50

B31 Clear heavy acrylic mug with W&L logo. Manufacturer recommends not to put in
microwave or dishwasher. $5.75

B32 White ceramic mug with LAW imprint in blue. $5.35

B33 Elegance in a plate! Regal blue surrounds crest of 22k gold. 10%. diameter plate
has capsule history of W&L on back. Handsome gift box. $60.00

 

 

  
      

TTS
PY) Vie

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
     

C1 W&L Teddy Bear. Dressed in blue and white. 13°
high. $27.95

C2 W&L Teddy Bear. Ready for bed. 13°' high.

$27.95

C3 W&L Bear. 7’’ in a handknitted W&L sweater and
— cap. $14.95

~ C4 Baby bib with 3 color crest. $4.25

C5 Spring at W&L. Signed offset lithograph by David

Keeling. Double matted, framed with glass. 14%2°° by
20%2'’. Will be sent from Artist's studio. $55.00

C6 NEW! Fall at W&L. Offset lithograph as C5, except
16°’ by 20°’. $55.00

C7 Etching by Christopher Bowring ('87). Framed,
with glass 12°’ by 18%"’. Monochrome at $65.00
or hand-colored by artist at $95.00

 

om

C8 Lee: The Last Years by Charles Flood. Signed | | q : mane
by author. Cloth $14.95, Paper $8.95. Alumni | @XEARS a aerate
discount 10%. : : | COLLEGE
C9 General Lee's College by Ollinger Crenshaw. |i ri fi st cobb

Cloth $10.00. Alumni discount 10%. ben xc \* 3 ee

C10 NEW: Spring Turkey Hunting by W&L |
professor John M. McDaniel. Cloth $21.95. Alumni jj
discount 10%. :

C11 Shenandoah: An Anthology. Edited by W&L
professor James Boatwright. $28.00

C12 1986 Glee Club record or cassette (please
specify). $7.00

C13 Bumper sticker W&L is THE... .79
C14 Discreet 13’’ W&L decal. .99 C13

C15 W&L 3 color stick-on crest. .69 Ct - = Boy WASHINGTON Lag UNIVERSE Y
C16 W&L 3 color decal. .69 = i I oo pet ise Oe
C17 Law school decal. .69 ‘ome = He : i. 2° eo ae

C18 Colonnade in Autumn poster. 20°" by 25" ae Vas. 3
signed by the artist. Unframed only. $9.95 | i] a ee

Washington and Lee IS THE
University of Virginia

srmmwenanemnpencnoomrmanne nics wanes 0

 

  
    
  

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C12 sa
a B FE FE ‘ W&L UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE NAME: DAY PHONE:
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
. (703) 463-8633 ADDRESS:
WITH PURCHASE OF $100 Mon.-Fri. 8:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. CITY: STATE ZIP

 

 

JR MORE WHILE SUPPLY LASTS
—" SCARF IN POLYESTER
CREPE 10°’ x 40"

ce

ITEM NO. QTY. SIZE DESCRIPTION/COLOR

     

 

Please send no money with your order as For orders over $5.00
prices can change without warning. We will
applicable. If you’d rather order by phone or Expiration Date Signature

 

you have a question, please call us. Sept. 1986

f

 

 

 

Alumni Chapter Presidents

APPALACHIAN— James W. Elliott, 67L, White Elliott & Bundy, P.O. Box 8400, Bristol, VA
24203-8400; 703-466-8400

ARKANSAS—Lee S. Thalheimer, ’73, No. 1 Capitol Mall, 4B-206, Little Rock, AR 72203;
501-376-1171

ATLANTA—Michael T. Thornton, ’70, ’78L, Dennis & Corry, Suite 900, 3379 Peachtree St., N.E.,
Atlanta, GA 30326; 404-231-5244

AUSTIN—Richard E. Gray, III, ’73, Gray & Becker, Vaughn Building, 807 Brazos, Austin, TX
78701-2533; 512-482-0061

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—Charles R. Chittum, ’69, Box 78, Churchville, VA 24421;
703-885-1732

BALTIMORE—Thomas N. Keigler, ’77, McDonogh School, McDonogh, MD 21208; 301-363-0600

BIRMINGHAM—Hatton C. V. Smith, ’73, P.O. Box 6221-A, Birmingham, AL 35217;
205-849-5836

BLUE RIDGE—Richard H. Milnor, ’70, ’74L, Albemarle County Commonwealth Attorney’s
Office, Court Square, Charlottesville, VA 22901; 804-977-2897

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Kenneth M. Clayton, ’70, Zimmerman Shuffield Kiser Sutcliffe, P.A.,
P.O. Box 3000, Orlando, FL 32802; 305-425-7010

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Thomas B. Shepherd III, ’84L, Watkins Ludlam & Stennis, P.O. Box
427, Jackson, MS 39205; 601-354-3456

CHARLESTON, S.C.—J. Hagood Morrison, ’79, 19 State Street, Charleston, SC 29401;
803-723-6890

CHARLESTON, W.Va.—Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75, 1427 Quarrier Street, No. 2, Charleston, WV
25301; 304-344-3372

CHARLOTTE-— Richard Koch, ’75, 2700 Wachovia Center, 400 S. Tryon, Charlotte, N.C. 28285;
704-377-5700

CHATTANOOGA—Paul K. Brock, Jr., ’78, 204 Franklin Road, Lookout Mountain, TN 37350;
615-899-1100

CHICAGO—Timothy F. Haley, ’73, 1426 Asbury Avenue, Winnetka, IL 60093; 312-346-8000

CLEVELAND—Thomas E. Goss, Jr., 80, McDonald & Company Securities, 2100 Central
National Bank Bldg., Cleveland, OH 44144; 216-448-2370

CUMBERLAND VALLEY—Edmond B. Gregory III, ’75, Linton, Shafer & Co., P.A., 6 West
Second Street, Frederick, MD 21701; 301-663-5122

DALLAS—Lee Halford, Jr., 69, 2700 Stemmons Freeway, Dallas, TX 75207; 214-631-7910

DELAWARE—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 123 King William Street, Newark, DE 19711;
302-451-2186

DELMARVA—Robert B. Taylor, ’70L, P.O. Box 671, Salisbury, MD 21801; 301-749-0161
DENVER—Charles W. Pride, ’72, 1382 South St. Paul, Denver, CO 80210; 303-692-0451

DETROIT—John F. Mozena, ’67, 274 Lewiston Road, Grosse Pointe Farms, MI 48236;
313-884-3700

EASTERN KENTUCKY—Grover C. Baldwin Jr., ’40, ’47L, 665 Higgins Ave., Paris, KY 40361;
606-987-1125
John S. Penn, ’73, Bank One Lexington, P.O. Box 575, Lexington, KY 40586; 606-259-9500

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—Gregory B. Crampton, ’69, 3317 Alleghany Drive, Raleigh,
NC 27609; 919-781-1311

FLORIDA WEST COAST—John W. Robinson IV, ’72, Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs, et. al.,
P.O. Box 1438, Tampa, FL 33601; 813-228-7411

FORT LAUDERDALE—Donald B. Cartwright, ’72, 1 East Broward Blvd., Suite 600, Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33301; 305-523-6551

FORT WORTH—Tom L. Larimore, ’59, Gandy Michener Swindle Whataker Pratt, 2501 Parkview
Dr., Suite 600, Fort Worth, TX 76102; 817-335-4417

GREENSBORO— William K. Dunker, ’56, 831 Cornwallis Drive, Greensboro, NC 27408;
919-373-0495

GULF STREAM—Lawrence B. Craig II 66, Merritt Sikes & Craig, 111 SW 3rd Street, 3rd Floor,
Miami, FL 33130; 305-371-3741

HILTON HEAD—Lewis W. Martin, ’35, 100 Governors Road, Hilton Head Island, SC 29928;
803-671-4068

HOUSTON— Willard B. Wagner, III, ’70, 5422 Pagewood, Houston, TX 77056; 713-236-4497
INDIANAPOLIS—Mark L. Dicken, ’78L, P. O. Box 44128, Indianapolis, IN 46204; 317-632-5503

JACKSONVILLE—Sidney S. Simmons II, ’80, 1200 Barnett Bank Bldg., Jacksonville, FL 32202;
904-353-1264

KANSAS CITY—William S. Ridge, ’60, Gateway Chemical Co., 118S.W. Boulevard, Kansas City,
MO 64112; 417-421-1844

LONG ISLAND—Charles M. Strain, ’73, ’77L, Farrell Fritz Caemmerer et al, 22 Jericho Turn-
pike, Mineola, NY 11501; 516-741-1111

LOS ANGELES—David J. McLean, ’78, Latham & Watkins, 555 S. Flower St., 46th Floor, Los
Angeles, CA 90071-2466; 213-485-1234

LOUISVILLE—Douglas H. Madison, ’72, Liberty National Bank, P.O. Box 32500, Louisville,
KY 40232; 502-566-2707

LYNCHBURG—James E. McCausland, ’43, Snead-Payne & McCausland, P.O. Box 664,
Lynchburg, VA 24505; 804-846-5236

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Clay T. Jackson, ’76, Coopers, Love, Jackson Co., P. O. Box 139,
Nashville, TN 37202; 615-329-9000

MID-SOUTH—Thomas F. Baker IV, ’71, 2137 Rolling Valley Drive, Germantown, TN 38138;
901-523-4696

MINNESOTA—Brice R. Gamber, ’64, 18505 Fifth Avenue, N., Plymouth, MN 55447; 612-338-5501

MOBILE—Clifton I. Morrissette, ’83, P. O. Box 1646, Mobile, AL 36633; 205-433-0454

MONTGOMERY—J. Michael Jenkins II, 64, P.O. Box 91, Montgomery, AL 36101; 205-834-2210

NEW ENGLAND—Mark L. Favermann, ’69, Favermann Associates, 127 South Street, Boston,
MA 02111; 617-542-0510

NEW ORLEANS—Julian H. Good, Jr., ’78, 135 St. Charles Ave., Suite 500, New Orleans, LA
70130; 504-581-9267

NEW YORK—John M. Zamoiski, ’74, Entertainment Marketing Services, 280 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y. 10016; 212-532-2050

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Russell L. Hewit, ’74, ’77L, 58 Fairview, Chatham, NJ 07928;
201-654-4540

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, Route 1, Box 236, Shreveport, LA 71115;
318-797-5868

OKLAHOMA CITY—Thomas G. Ferguson, Jr., ’73L, 1821 Woodland Road, Edmond, OK 73034;
405-843-8855

ORANGE COUNTY—Paul A. Brower, ’68, 23961 Calle de la Magdalena, Suite 534, Laguna Hills,
CA 92653; 714-855-1101

OREGON— Joseph N. Moffatt, ’50, 905 SW Cedar Hills Blvd No. 1106, Portland, OR 97225-5751;
503-231-9698

PALM BEACH—D. Culver Smith, III, ’64, °67L, 1200 Northbridge Centre I, 515 N. Flagler Drive,
West Palm Beach, FL 33401-4307; 305-655-5311

PALMETTO—J. Preston Covington III, ’82, Smith Barney Harris Upham Co., S.C. National
Bank Bldg No. 1170, Columbia, SC 29201; 803-771-8990

PENINSULA—E. Thomas Cox, ’67, 47 West Sandy Point Road, Poquoson, VA 23662-1315;
804-874-1981

PENSACOLA—C. Miner Harrell, ’71, 2403 Tronjo Place, Pensacola, FL 32503; 904-432-7723

PHILADELPHIA—Martin F. Bowers, ’80, 65 Upper Gulph Road, Strafford, PA 19087;
215-564-5300

PHOENIX—Walter E. Hunter, ’50, 6349 N. 78th Street, No. 143, Scottsdale, AZ 85253;
602-991-2929

PITTSBURGH~—Richard M. Johnston, ’56, Hillman Company, 2000 Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh,
PA 15219; 412-281-2620

PUGET SOUND—J. Michael Gallagher, ’79, The Old Vinecourt Bldg., 300 Vine Street, Suite 4,
Seattle, WA 98121; 509-467-9526

RICHMOND—Channing J. Martin, ’75, ’79L, 8639 Old Spring Road, Richmond, VA 23235;
804-643-1991

ROANOKE—D. Scott Farrar, ’76, Route 4, Box 282, Troutville, VA 24175; 703-563-7793
ROCKBRIDGE—Greg C. Raetz, ’71, 611 Stonewall Street, Lexington, VA 24450; 703-463-7121
ST. LOUIS—J. J. Landers Carnal, ’79, 35 Woodcrest Drive, St. Louis, MO 63124; 314-554-7750

SAN ANTONIO—Carl P. Flanagan III, ’75, Cigna Corp., 6243 IH 10, Suite 1001, San Antonio,
TX 78201; 512-736-2275

SAN DIEGO—John D. Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, Klinedinst & Meiser, 444 W. ‘‘C”’ St., Suite 330,
San Diego, CA 92101; 619-239-8125

SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA—W. Nat Baker, ’67, 2737 Polk Street, Apt. No. 5, San Fran-
cisco, CA 94109; 415-885-6515

SHENANDOAH—William W. Pifer, ’76, Box 725, Winchester, VA 22601; 703-667-0990

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—E. Phifer Helms, ’74, Banker’s Trust, P. O. Box 608, Green-
ville, SC 29602; 803-271-5951

SOUTHERN OHIO—Thomas P. O’Brien, Jr., ’58, ’60L, Law Department, The Kroger Co., 1014
Vine Street, Cincinnati, OH 45201; 513-762-4425

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA—Robert T. Vaughan, ’79L, Meade Tate & Daniel, P. O. Box 720, Dan-
ville, VA 24543; 804-792-3911

SPARTANBURG—Arthur F. Cleveland II, ’71, 241 Mills Avenue, Spartanburg, SC 29302;
803-585-1853

TALLAHASSEE—G. Don N. Bryant, III, ’76, 2101 E. Randolph Circle, Tallahassee, FL 32312;
904-877-5102

TIDEWATER—Charles M. Lollar, ’77, Heilig McKenry Fraim & Lollar, 700 Newtown Road, Nor-
folk, VA 23502; 804-461-2500

TRI STATE—Charles F. Bagley III, ’°69L, Campbell Woods Bagley Emerson McNeer Etc.,
P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, WV 25701; 304-529-2391

TUCSON— William M. Christie, Jr., °69, 735 N. Bamboo Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85710; 602-621-1598

TULSA—David R. Cordell, 82, Conner & Winters, 2400 First National Tower, Tulsa, OK 74103;
918-586-5711

UPPER POTOMAC— Albert D. Darby, Jr., ’43, 507 Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502;
301-722-4600

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L, 812 Vicar Lane, Alexandria, VA 22302;
703-356-2200

WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD CO.—Christopher B. Burnham, ’80, Old Mill Lane, Stamford,
CT 06902; 212-614-4001

WEST TEXAS—John W. B. Northington, ’81, P.O. Box 2705, Midland, TX 79702; 915-687-3208

WINSTON-SALEM— John A. Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, Horton Hendrick & Kummer, 450 NCNB
Plaza, Winston-Salem, NC 27101; 919-723-1826

WISCONSIN—Thomas H. Baumann, ’76, 5900 N. Shoreland Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53217;
414-352-8800

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

‘Barbara Je Brown
‘University Library

 

Comin g
For

 

 
 

Washington and Lee University, a photographic essay by Pulitzer
Prize-winning photographer William Strode, will be available soon
through the Washington and Lee Bookstore. The 112-page volume
features spectacular color photographs taken by Strode during the
1985-86 academic year. The book also features an introductory essay
by Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of
English, and a special collection of historical photos, many published
for the very first time.

The standard edition will sell for $35, including postage and handling.
A deluxe, leather-bound edition, slip-cased and autographed by the
photographer, will also be offered for $100. Both make handsome
Christmas gifts.

 

Order directly from the Washington and Lee Bookstore, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

 

 

