 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

During its Texas tour, Southern Comfort entertained patients, families, and
staff at Dallas’ Scottish Rite Hospital for Crippled Children (above) and at
Parkland Hospital (right), where a young patient watches in the hallway.

Barnstorming

 

Wie many of their classmates were taking it easy on the
ski slopes or the beaches during the annual Washington Holi-
day in mid-February, members of Washington and Lee’s
Southern Comfort were the principals in an old-fashioned barn-
storming tour that took them from Lexington to San Antonio
and back again.

It began on February 14 in Birmingham and ended on
February 22 in Atlanta. Along the way Southern Comfort log-
ged 3,200 miles, performed for eight chapters in nine nights,
gave two mini-concerts at Dallas hospitals, and sang more than
a few choruses of The Swing.

Featuring a repertoire that ranges from the Beach Boys to
barbershop to Broadway, the 12-member (plus an accompanist)
organization is a direct descendant of the Sazeracs and represents
a select group from the W&L Glee Club.

In addition to Birmingham, the group entertained the North-
west Louisiana chapter in Shreveport on its way to Texas.

 

 

 

 

Alumni at the San Antonio Chapter meeting listen...

 

 

 

Once in the Lone Star State, Southern Comfort performed
on consecutive evenings for chapter meetings in Fort Worth,
Dallas, San Antonio, and Houston. Each of those meetings also
featured remarks by Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson.

While in Dallas, Southern Comfort visited with patients at
Parkland Hospital and Scottish Rite Hospital for Crippled
Children, presenting mini-performances for the patients,
families, and staffs of both hospitals.

The return trip included performances at meetings of the
New Orleans and Atlanta chapters.

All along the way Southern Comfort members stayed with
alumni families, all of whom reported that the vacationing
students spent most of their free time studying.

For further information on Southern Comfort’s Texas barn-
storming and other activities of W&L alumni chapters, turn to
the Alumni News feature on page 29.

rE

 

 

 

...to the “‘Hungarian Rhapsody’’ performed by Rob Vienneau, ’87.

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 61, Number 3, June 1986

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FurRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COUuLLING, Editorial Assistant
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, President
Baltimore, Md.

RicE M. TILLey Jr., ’58, Vice President
Fort Worth, Texas

CHARLES R. BEALL, 756, Treasurer
Martinsburg, W.Va.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DUBosE AUSLEY, 759
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. Nat BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, °44
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HOWARD CapPITo, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73
Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFOoRD JR., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., 765, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

WAYNE D. McGrew Jr., 752
Atlanta, Ga.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50
New York, N.Y.

PAuL J. B. MurRpuy, 49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JrR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

JOHN Poynor, ’62
Birmingham, Ala.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., 753
Darien, Conn.

STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L
Chicago, Ill.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class
postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

 

On the Inside

Ken Lane, ’36, and his
grandson at the annual
Spring Reunions. For
coverage of the reunion
activities, see page 22.

 

Z West Meets East

 

8 Puzzling Partners

 

13. The Hitler Quandary

 

18 Courting Reform

 

22 #Reunion ’86

 

25 W&L Gazette

 

29 Alumni News

 

32 Class Notes

 

38 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Summer in Lexington is captured by photographer
Charles Mason, ’84, currently photo editor of the Daily News-
Miner in Fairbanks, Alaska, and the subject of an Alumni
Magazine profile in 1984. Posters of the cover photo are available
from the University Bookstore for $6.50 plus $1 for handling.

 

Steve Sadler, a sophomore from Easton, Md., and Kathleen Plante, a junior from Great Falls, Va., work at the blackboard in a Japanese class.

West Meets East

 

From Humble Beginnings, East Asian Studies Are Flourishing

 

I. a modern university library, tucked
away between rows of volumes of Euro-
pean literature, a young woman sits in a
cluttered carrel and reads Lady
Murasaki’s classic 11th-century novel,
The Tale of the Genji.

Across the campus in a sunlit art
studio, a Chinese master demonstrates
the ancient art of brushpainting to his
American students.

In a classroom building a few yards
away, undergraduates cover the
blackboard with kanji, the characters that
form the basis of written Japanese.

In the wrestling room of the universi-
ty’s gymnasium, a Japanese student
demonstrates the proper technique of a
karate kick to an attentive audience of
fellow students.

2 W&L

by Anne Coulling

West meets East at this small liberal
arts university in rural Virginia,
thousands of miles from the Asian conti-
nent. Amid the courses on United States
history and politics, the distinctly
American activities of football and
frisbee, and the Southern reverence for a
Civil War hero, a group of students and
faculty is immersed in the study of Japan
and China—their literature and
languages, their art and histories, their
cultures and economies.

East Asian studies are not merely
alive and well at Washington and Lee
these days: they are flourishing.

Te East Asian studies program at
Washington and Lee traces its origins to
1971 and a proposal drafted by William

W. Pusey, who was then dean of the
College.

‘‘There seemed to me to be a gap in
what we were offering here,’’ says Pusey,
who retired from active teaching five
years ago. The gap was Asia. Pusey’s
proposal was that the University establish
a curriculum in Chinese studies.

A professor of German and Russian
himself, Pusey had no formal training in
Asian studies. Nor was he pursuing any
special interest of his own in proffering
such a proposal. He was simply respond-
ing to the changing times and the chang-
ing student interests.

‘*To use a cliche,’’ says Pusey of that
Original proposal, ‘‘a Chinese studies cur-
riculum was an idea whose time had
come.’’

’

 

Several events, on and off the
Washington and Lee campus, conspired
to push Pusey’s proposal forward. No
doubt the most obvious of those was
President Richard Nixon’s landmark visit
to the People’s Republic of China in
1972. American interest in China surged
in the immediate aftermath of that visit,
and that interest was reflected on the
Washington and Lee campus.

Not coincidentally, it was during that
same year, 1972, that Harold C. Hill
taught the first Chinese language course
offered at W&L. Hill was—and still is—a
member of the German department, but
he had studied Chinese in the military
and was not only able, but willing, to
teach the new course.

It was a Start.

During the next several years, the
University added to the faculty a core of
professors whose areas of expertise hap-
pened to be in East Asian studies: Minor
L. Rogers in the religion department,
John R. Handelman in politics, Roger B.
Jeans in history, and Ann T. Rogers in
Japanese. They joined artist-in-residence
I-Hsiung Ju, a native of China and
master brushpainter who had come to
Washington and Lee in 1969.

While the faculty resources were fall-
ing into place, the fledgling East Asian
program received a major boost in 1973
when the University secured a grant for
the development of Chinese studies from
the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation.
The Babcock funds helped establish an
East Asian collection in the library, spon-
sored lectures and cultural events, and
enabled two faculty members—
Handelman of the politics department
and W. Lad Sessions of the philosophy
department—to take sabbatical leaves to
develop East Asian courses in their par-
ticular disciplines.

The Babcock grant was for three
years and provided a springboard for the
program. In 1978, just six years after the
first Chinese course was added to the
catalogue, a formal East Asian studies
major was established, although a few
students had already been pursuing in-
dependent majors in East Asian studies
before that time.

When the major was first offered,
students could choose from 20 courses in
East Asian subjects, including language
study in both Chinese and Japanese. To-
day twice that many courses are being
offered—a far cry from the days of Pro-
fessor Hill’s Chinese 101-102 course.
More courses are to be added soon. A

 

long-anticipated business element of the
program will go into effect next fall when
a specialist on East Asian economics
joins the faculty of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics. (See box
on page 5.) A sociology course compar-
ing the social institutions of China,
Japan, and the United States is in the
planning stages.

Just last year the University received a
grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foun-
dation that has made possible an
augmented schedule of lectures, perfor-
mances, and films. Support for the pro-
gram has not been limited to sources in
this country, either. Gifts from such
diverse organizations as the Japan Foun-
dation, the Chinese Writers and Artists
Association, and the Rotary Club of
Taipei, Taiwan, have allowed the Univer-
sity to build a nucleus of research
materials on Asian subjects.

The first students with independent
majors in East Asian studies graduated
from W&L in 1977. Since that time, 30
students have graduated as East Asian
Studies majors. In 1985-86, seven seniors
and six juniors had declared East Asian

Shizuka
Sakagami, an
instructor in
Japanese,
demonstrates for
Clara Hocker,
an exchange
student from
Randolph-
Macon
Woman’s
College.

studies as their major. A major in East
Asian studies requires two years of
Chinese or Japanese and a minimum of
21 additional credits in art, history,
literature, philosophy, politics, and
religion.

The interdisciplinary nature of the
program is, according to many of the
participants, one of its most attractive
features.

‘‘Majoring in East Asian studies gives
you the opportunity to take courses in
virtually every department on campus,’’
says Chris Cartmill, who graduated in
1984. ‘‘The program is a liberal arts ex-
perience in and of itself. The faculty is
excellent. In fact, I think it is one of the
best programs on campus.”’

The diversity of the East Asian cur-
riculum notwithstanding, students who
opt for the major are often motivated by
quite practical considerations.

Senior Bill Hutchinson of Cheriton,
Va., fits in this latter category. ‘‘Approx-
imately 30 percent of our foreign trade is
with countries in the Pacific Basin,’’ ex-
plains Hutchinson. ‘‘If we are going to
compete commercially with Asia, we need

W&L 3

 

 

His

/-Hsiung Ju, professor of

ii &

art and artist-in-residence, with students Catherine Christian, a

    

%\

Jreshman from Chapel Hill, N.C., and Michael Wiesbrock, a junior from Ottawa, IIl.

to understand the people. But the fact is
that Americans are exceptionally ignorant
about Asians, who comprise almost 60
percent of the world’s population. You
can find a lot of people majoring in
American or European history, but East
Asian majors are still few and far be-
tween.”’

The very presence at Washington and
Lee of a strong East Asian program was
a major factor in freshman Donald
Schaeffer’s decision to enroll in the
University last fall. Prior to coming to
W&L, Schaeffer had attended the Ar-
mand Hammer United World College in
New Mexico, where he developed an in-

4 W&L

terest in the Orient. ‘‘When you take
classes in East Asian studies, you’re
learning about something that is alien,
but you are also opening up a lot of op-
portunities,’’ says Schaeffer. ‘‘And
you’re helping to bridge the gap between
the two cultures.’’

Charles Pitts, ’°85, majored in the pro-
gram because, he says, ‘‘I saw it as a
way to make a career path out of an in-
terest. I guess you could say I’m chasing
a hobby.”’ Indeed, Pitts contends that
East Asian studies is one of W&L’s most
‘‘marketable’’ programs: ‘‘On the one
hand, the major is very much in the
liberal arts tradition. The courses in

 

philosophy and religion, for example, are
very reflective. But the program is also
practical, if you choose to take advantage
of the opportunities it offers you.’’

Pitts is currently pursuing his M.B.A.
at the University of Alabama. He has
found his East Asian background to be a
definite asset. ‘‘When prospective
employers find out you know something
about Japan,’’ he says, ‘‘they are really
interested in talking to you. My East
Asian studies major is like a calling card
to business.’’

This summer, Pitts will be an intern
at an Alabama textile firm. His primary
assignment will be to assess the feasibility
of marketing the company’s products in
Japan.

Like Pitts, many of the program’s
graduates use their East Asian
background to enter fields in interna-
tional business. Several currently live and
work in the Orient. For instance, Tori
Richardson, ’84, is teaching English at
the Fu Jen University Language Center in
Taipei, and Stephen H. Denny, ’83, is
sales manager for an electronics and com-
puter firm in Tokyo.

For others, the major offers less ob-
vious benefits. Cartmill, for example, is
studying theatre in the master of fine arts
program at the University of Virginia. An
undergraduate major in East Asian
studies might seem unlikely preparation
for graduate study in theatre. But, says
Cartmill, ‘‘Asian studies have informed
my theatre more than I ever expected.
Much western drama has been influenced
by the theatre of Asia.

‘‘Majoring in East Asian studies has
given me something that not everybody
else has. After all, it never hurts to point
out on a resume that you speak
Chinese.”’

Aitthouen Washington and Lee offers
a strong core of East Asian courses, not
even the most creative and inspiring pro-
fessors are able to overcome one major
obstacle to giving students a genuine feel
for the subject matter. That obstacle is
distance. Lexington, after all, is half a
world away from the cultures in question.

‘“‘We knew from the beginning,’’ says
Jeans, an associate history professor who
currently directs the program, ‘‘that if we
wanted a solid and authentic program,
we would have to provide plenty of op-
portunities for study abroad—
opportunities for students to improve
their language capabilities and to learn
about the culture through prolonged
residence in that culture.’’

 

Through the years, several faculty
members with ties to Asian institutions
have facilitated the establishment of a
number of study-abroad programs. The
University currently participates in ex-
change programs with Chung Chi College
in Hong Kong, Rikkyo University in
Tokyo, and the Kansai University of
Foreign Studies (Kansai Gaidai) in Japan.
In addition, professors direct six-week
spring-term trips to Japan and Taiwan,
as well as a summer program in Taiwan.

The importance of these study-abroad
opportunities, say both students and
faculty, cannot be overestimated.

‘‘What’s the point of studying a
language if you don’t actually use it?”’
says Cartmill, who spent a summer in
Taiwan as a participant in a 10-week
language program. ‘‘I took French for
eight years, much longer than I took
Chinese, and yet I haven’t retained much
of the French. I still have my Chinese,
because I had to use it.’’

Hutchinson studied for a semester at
Japan’s Kansai University of Foreign
Studies where he found speaking and
understanding Japanese something more
than an academic exercise. Says Hutchin-
son: “*Textbooks can give you a good

© and Pale.

OHUCS

=

basis for a language, but to learn you
really need to have hands-on experience.’

Such hands-on experience goes beyond
the language of the culture, too. ‘‘I went
to Kansai Gaidai to see a different socie-
ty, to see life from a different perspec-
tive,’’ says Hutchinson. ‘‘And I did.

**T encountered a lot of culture shock.
It’s a very different world—from the
public baths to the open butcher shops
right out on the streets. And then, of
course, there was the food: all soup and
fish. I used to dream about having a
good old American dinner—a thick steak,
baked potato, and red wine.”’

Although the students do attend
classes or tutorials while they are abroad,
most agree that the greater part of their
education comes outside the classroom.
‘‘Many Americans who go to Asia do
nothing but hang around with each
other,’’ Cartmill observes. ‘‘I could do
that at home. So I always got out, rode
the buses, and tried to meet people.”’

Through these various experiences—
the classes and the travel—students learn
much about the Japanese and Chinese
cultures. But in the process, they wind up
learning a great deal about their own
society because they are forced to ex-

’

c hy

|
—
AG

ses
— _
.

i
—
a — : ae
oo

-

 

amine it from a vastly different
perspective.

*‘Our perceptions in America really
are warped,’’ claims Hutchinson. ‘‘Our
standard of living is so far above that of
the rest of the world. In the U.S., pover-
ty is when you can’t afford a car and a
television set. In many countries, poverty
is when you can’t feed your kids. We
just assume everyone has three meals a
day. But what we think of as necessity is
regarded as luxury in much of the
world.’’

Cartmill’s viewpoint, too, underwent
a dramatic shift as the result of his ex-
perience in Taiwan. ‘‘I received some real
shockers,’’ he says. ‘‘For example, how
could I explain to these people what my
university is like? How could I tell them
what my home is like, that I don’t have
to sleep in the same room with the rest
of my family? Never before have I been
ashamed of what I have.’’

On one of his trips through Taiwan,
Cartmill took a photograph of a little
Chinese girl. Today that photograph oc-
cupies a prominent place in his room at
the University of Virginia, serving as a
constant reminder of Taiwan and his ex-
periences there. ‘‘I miss it just thinking
about it,’’ he says. ‘‘I hope I can go
back soon.”’

nfortunately, not all of the Wash-
ington and Lee students who take the
East Asian courses, not even all the East
Asian studies majors, can take advantage
of the opportunities to travel and study
in the Orient.

How can Washington and Lee help
them better understand the cultures they
can only study from a distance? The
solution is simple. If the students cannot
all go to Asia, the University must bring
Asia to Lexington—and in a more signifi-
cant form than the community’s one
Oriental restaurant. a

The East Asian studies committee is
constantly striving to bring Asia to W&L
in as many ways as possible. Obviously,
that is no easy task. Explains Jeans:
‘‘Our beautiful location in the Shenan-
doah Valley, although terribly attractive
to all of us, does mean that we are
isolated from major urban centers, with
their archives and large libraries,
museums, cultural events, Asian
restaurants, and resident Asians.”’

To compensate, funding from sources
such as the Mellon Foundation provides
for special events. This year, for instance,
the East Asian program has sponsored
recitals by native Japanese musicians, lec-

W&L 5

 

 

‘i Aan .
4 SS . a *
2 RS S Roce —

An international bull session includes participants, from left, Bill Nichols, Nick Thompson, Yukie Kurihara (Rikkyo University student), R. J.

Res
ea

 

 

Hogan, Yuji Tomita (Kansai Gaidai student), Vanessa Hartman, Koichiro Takata (Kansai Gaidai student), and Charlie Groh.

tures on such diverse topics as Confu-
cianism and the Japanese imperial army,
and a film series on World War II
Japan.

(Of course, a bit of Asian culture
does exist on the campus all the time.
The Reeves Collection of Chinese export
porcelain, which was given to the Univer-
sity in 1967, serves as a unique study tool
for students.)

Too, the exchange programs
Washington and Lee has with East Asian
institutions are just that—exchanges. So
Asia comes to Washington and Lee in the
form of students from Tokyo’s Rikkyo
University, from Kansai Gaidai near
Kyoto, and from Hong Kong’s Chung
Chi. Six students from Japan and Hong
Kong have been enrolled at W&L during
the 1985-86 academic year. That is about
the average number of Asian exchange
students on campus each year.

Japanese and Chinese students come
to the United States for much the same
reasons their American counterparts go
to Japan and China—to escape the
bounds of their textbooks.

‘*In Japan the only way I can learn
the American language and culture is
from a textbook or a magazine,’’ says
Koichiro Takata, who is on exchange

6 W&L

from Kansai Gaidai. ‘‘But sometimes
textbook English doesn’t help you. For
example, the books all tell you that when
you see someone you say, ‘How do you
do?’ No one really says that. Here, when
you meet someone walking across cam-
pus, you say, ‘What’s up?’ ”’

Not unexpectedly, the language bar-
rier is a significant, if not insurmount-
able, problem that most exchange
students face when they come to W&L.
Yukie Kurihara, a student from Rikkyo
University in Tokyo, had seven years of
English study before arriving in Lex-
ington last fall. Nevertheless, she readily
confesses that she has struggled with the
language when forced to use it on a daily
basis.

‘‘In Japan,’’ she says, ‘‘we focused
on reading and writing. Listening and
speaking are very difficult.’’

The exchange students also discover
that the academic experience found at
Washington and Lee is much different
from the college life to which they are
accustomed. For one thing, W&L is
much smaller than Rikkyo and Kansai
Gaidai, where a class of 300 students is
not unusual. In addition, says Takata,
‘*the quality of the classes is much better
here. In Japan, people study for maybe

>

half an hour every day. Here, everyone
seems to study two to four hours a day.”’

Students are taken aback by
Washington and Lee’s Honor System,
too. ‘‘When we take a test in Japan,’’
explains Kurihara, ‘‘we have to put
everything at the front of the rocm, and
we can have only our student I.D. and a
pen. If it’s an open-book test, they pro-
vide the books for us, and we can’t use
our own.”’

Although most of the exchange
students live in Woods Creek Apartments
and eat their meals in the University’s
Evans Dining Hall, they often feel that
the cultural differences and the language
barrier do separate them from the rest of
the University community. ‘‘Sometimes I
feel like an exchange student,’’ says
Kurihara. ‘‘But when I go to parties and
activities, I feel like a regular W&L stu-
dent. Most of the people here try to be
friendly. I can feel people making the ef-
fort to find a common interest and
bridge the distance between us. And the
professors are very kind.’’

Although they occasionally feel like
strangers on the campus, the students are
universally glad to be in Lexington. In
order to be accepted into the exchange
program, most had to take oral and writ-

 

ten exams in both their native language
and English. Often the selection process
is very competitive.

‘*The American influence in Japan
has been great since World War II,’’ ex-
plains Kurihara, ‘‘and that is one reason
why students want to come here. We
hear sO many success stories—that you
can do whatever you want to in the
States.’’

Takata agrees. ‘‘The Japanese think
that western culture is superior to East
Asian culture. You look at Japanese
magazines, and see that most of the
models are American and European.
There is a saying that Japan is like a
banana: the appearance is Asian, but the
inside is white—westernized and
Americanized.’’

The foreign students benefit
significantly from studying at Washington
and Lee. But they are exchange students
in every sense of the word, and even as
they acquire valuable educational ex-
periences, they give much in return to
their host campus.

For example, all the Japanese students
assist with the advanced Japanese
language class. And this year Takata has
taught an informal martial arts class
three times a week in the gymnasium. ‘‘I
don’t charge for the class,’’ he says. ‘‘I
just tell my friends that I will teach them
martial arts if they will teach me English.
So I demonstrate something, and they
say, ‘This is an arm circle,’ or ‘That’s
called a push-up.’ ”’

Says Kurihara: ‘‘I like learning the
American culture, and at the same time I
try to introduce my culture to America.
Several of the East Asian studies majors
have exchanged addresses with us,
because they would like to get jobs in
Japan. That makes us very happy,
because it shows they’re interested in our
culture.’’

Perhaps the primary benefit of an ex-
change program is what it teaches
students about their own country.
‘*Before I came here, I didn’t really like
Japan,’’ says Yuji Tomita of Kansai
Gaidai. ‘‘Now I do. Maybe we have to
see Our country from the outside before
we can really appreciate it.’’

| the blackboards of Newcomb
Hall to the easels of the duPont Hall art
studios, from lectures on Confucianism
to informal demonstrations of martial
arts, East Asian studies is clearly a viable
program at Washington and Lee.

Yet, obstacles remain. The program’s

directors must continually work to keep
up the steady flow of cultural and educa-
tional opportunities coming to the cam-
pus. Too, the curriculum is restricted to
China and Japan, thereby excluding such
East Asian countries as Korea and
Vietnam.

‘*To call it an East Asian program is
really a little misleading,’’ says Jeans.
“*But we decided on this compromise
years ago, that we would concentrate on
only China and Japan and would do
them well.”’

Although more and more students
choose courses that are part of the East
Asian curriculum, the number of majors
each year remains small.

‘‘We don’t reach zillions of
students,’’ Jeans readily admits. ‘‘About
three to four hundred enroll in East
Asian courses each year. But I hope that
the program is, in at least a small way,
helping to balance out all the western
courses and western thought.”’

 

Kyoko
Okamoto
presents a
koto recital
in Lee
Chapel under
the sponsor-
ship of the
East Asian
studies
committee.

The program’s graduates are its
strongest proponents, arguing persuasive-
ly that their studies have made a dif-
ference, that their educational experience
would not have been the same without
the East Asian course work. ‘‘My major
definitely changed a lot of my views,”’
says alumnus Pitts. ‘‘When you take a
class in, say, Chinese philosophy, it’s
bound to have an impact on the way you
look at things.’’

That is precisely the hope of the East
Asian studies faculty. Says Roger Jeans:
‘*! don’t think the students can take these
classes just going through the motions. I
can’t believe that those who finish my
course on World War II Japan, for in-
stance, will ever think about the Japanese
in the same way again. They won’t re-
main untouched. I think that after they
take these classes, they see the world with
different eyes.

**And that, after all, is what educa-
tion is all about.’’

W&L 7

 

 

naieaa cael

ra

 

Puzzling Partnership

 

Ann and Minor Rogers Teaming Together on Translation

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

A: issue is tsuyu, a Japanese word that is pronounced sue-
you. The pronunciation is not important. The problem is the
translation.

Literally, fsuyu translates ‘‘dew’’ in English. But substitute
dew for ¢suyu and the rest of the sentence in question falls
flat, the imagery evaporates. So dew will not work, not quite.
What then? Droplets? Dew drops? Evanescence?

Ann Rogers might be at the sink washing dishes, but her
mind is many miles and many centuries away as she confronts
the puzzle of tswyu and its place in the troublesome
sentence—a sentence contained in a letter written by a Shin
Buddhist priest named Rennyo.

The more she searches her thesaurus and the more she con-
sults her husband/research partner, Minor Rogers, and the
more she confers with other colleagues, the more exasperated
Ann Rogers can become.

‘‘Sometimes,’’ she confesses, ‘‘I want to take this man
Rennyo and shake him and ask, ‘Now what did you really
mean? Why did you put it that way?’ ”’

She cannot interrogate the author, though. He died in
1499. One of two major figures in the development of Shin
Buddhism, Rennyo left behind about 220 letters that he had
written to Japanese Shin Buddhist congregations during the
15th century. Not unlike the letters of Paul to struggling
Christian churches in Corinth and Rome, Rennyo’s letters
were designed to instruct Shin Buddhists on shinjin, which is
often translated ‘‘faith,’’ although that misses the mark just as
‘‘dew”’’ fails to capture fsuyu.

Ann and Minor Rogers are in the midst of a project to
translate 80 of Rennyo’s letters—those that have become part
of the Shin Buddhist ‘‘prayer book’’—into English. The
Association for the Advancement of Buddhist Tradition asked
them to undertake the project as part of a larger effort in
which scholars throughout the world will translate 139 dif-
ferent texts from Chinese and Japanese into English to be
published in 100 volumes by the year 2000. Before they are
finished later this year Ann and Minor Rogers figure to have
translated about 200 pages of text. And every one of those
pages is full of puzzles like tswyu and shinjin.

‘‘Japanese, especially the classical Japanese in which Ren-
nyo wrote, is a very intuitive language,’’ Ann Rogers explains.
‘“There are nuances in the words that Rennyo uses that are ex-
tremely difficult to get across in English.’’

The questions confronting the translators are these: should
they key terms such as shinjin, which expresses a concept par-

.

ticular to the tradition, be translated into English or left in
Japanese? How much freedom can they take with the struc-
ture of the sentences? And above all, what is the tone, and
what does the sentence really say? It is especially ticklish since
the letters are part of Shin Buddhist scripture. How do you
produce a translation that is true both to the language and to
the complex concepts of the faith?
To be sure, it is a puzzle.

P..... seems an appropriate image, too, when describing
the Washington and Lee husband/wife team of Ann and
Minor Rogers. She is an instructor in Japanese; he is the
Jessie Ball duPont Professor of Religion and head of the
religion department. In this case, consider the jigsaw puzzle.
You have an array of disparate pieces that are supposed to
fit, one with another, to make the whole. The piece that is the

Virginia Military Institute physics major is supposed to in-

terlock somehow with the piece that is the Episcopal rector;
the piece that is the former railroad test engineer fits with the
piece that is the scholar on Shin Buddhism; the piece that is
the one-time college dropout connects with the piece that is
the Japanese linguist.

Once in their proper places, the pieces form a picture of
an unusual partnership—a partnership that has evolved to the
point now that Ann and Minor are working as closely on
translating the letters of Rennyo as they once did on minister-
ing to the spiritual needs of Episcopal congregations in
Virginia and Japan.

Ultimately the jigsaw puzzle image fails. A jigsaw puzzle
can be assembled by starting with any single piece; the puzzle
that is Ann and Minor Rogers’s partnership requires a more
chronological solution.

Minor Rogers was born in England to American parents.
His father grew up in Lexington, graduated from Virginia
Tech, and managed the London office of the Baldwin
Locomotive Works before starting his own locomotive
engineering firm in London. Minor was 10 when the Allied
forces evacuated Dunkirk. ‘‘My parents thought that, as
Americans, my sister and I would be safer in America, so they
sent us to live with relatives, first in Lexington and then in

' New Orleans,’’ he explains.

When the war ended, the children rejoined their parents in
England, and Minor went to a British public school. But he
returned to the States, to Lexington, in 1948 to attend VMI.
‘‘My father idealized traditional Virginia values. He also

W&L 9

 

wanted me to be in a structured
community where he wouldn’t
have to worry about me,’’ says
Minor, who majored in physics
and graduated with all the In-
stitute’s top honors.

Then came three months as
an engineer for duPont, follow-
ed by two years as a platoon
leader of a U.S. Army recon-
naissance company in Japan,
followed by a year and a half as
a test engineer for General
Electric.

‘“GE was testing diesel
engines on the Erie Railroad and
needed young engineers,’’ he
remembers. ‘‘You got on the
train in Erie, rode for about
eight hours, and then spent the
night in Hornell, N.Y., or Can-
ton, Ohio.”’

Those overnights in Hornell
and Canton figured prominently
in Minor’s final decision to
enter seminary. ‘‘Probably it
was the culmination of all these
dreary, mindless experiences that
triggered my decision,’’ he says.
Until then, he had simply
assumed he would be an
engineer.

“*T had never really thought
much about what to do because
I had spent so much energy coping with new situations,’’ he
says. ‘“Coming to VMI with a British accent or going to a
British public school with an American accent—those were ex-
periences that made you learn to cope.”’

Long active in the Church of England, Rogers went to
Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria under the spon-
sorship of Lexington’s R. E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church.

While in seminary he met Ann Tutwiler, a Lexington
native who was a sophomore at Hollins College. Shortly after
he received his seminary degree in 1958, Minor and Ann were
married. She dropped out of Hollins during her junior year.
The partnership began in three small Episcopal parishes near
Lynchburg—Minor was priest-in-charge of all three; Ann, just
19 years old, had a ministry of her own as the priest’s wife.

Each Sunday they started their rounds at 9 a.m. with ser-
vices at Sedalia, where attendance of 15 meant the whole con-
gregation had turned out. The 11 a.m. service was at St.
Stephens in Forest and was followed in the afternoon by ser-
vices at Trinity Church in Boonesboro. Although he had to
write only one sermon a week, the three services made for
long Sundays.

After three years of modern-day circuit riding, the
Rogerses decided it was time for a change. And a major
change it was. In 1961, they began a four-year stint in Japan,
under the auspices of the Japanese Episcopal Church.

Minor had long been intrigued by the prospect of working
overseas. Perhaps it had to do with a public schoolboy’s no-
tion of service somewhere in the British empire. Or perhaps it

10 W&L

 

was a matter of finding an
identity.

**T never felt I was really
American. And when I was in
England, I didn’t feel I was
British. I realize now that Japan
provided a third identity—or the
only identity—and that was in a
negative sense because at least
you knew you weren’t
Japanese,’’ Minor says, his soft,
controlled voice bearing traces
still of that unusual, betwixt-
and-between accent. ‘‘I needed
that other culture.’’

Ann needed the other
culture, too, but for quite dif-
ferent reasons. ‘‘Japan was hard
for me to imagine because I had
never really been anywhere.
That is probably what attracted
me to Minor. He had been
everywhere and was an open
door for me,”’’ she says. ‘‘I
remember standing in front of
the imperial palace in Kyoto and
thinking, ‘This is a palace?’ For
someone who had been raised
on Western history, art, and
literature, the architecture alone
was a major challenge to my
way of thinking.

“I didn’t really realize until I
came back what Japan had
meant to me. It was really my education.”’

When the Rogers family, including two-year-old son John,
boarded the airplane for Japan, Ann was clutching a dog-
eared paperback, Japanese in 30 Hours, a remnant of Minor’s
Army days. They both laugh now at the lunacy of so op-
timistic a title. ‘‘But I believed that at the time,’’ Ann says.
**T sat on the plane and had this simple faith that it would
work. Here we are years later still learning the language.’’

They spent their first two years in Japan in language
school. It was time well spent, especially for Ann who became
quite proficient, thanks largely to many hours in her son’s
sandbox.

“I! would leave the language class and go to the park with
John. I would sit in the sandbox and try out all the words I’d
learned on the Japanese children playing there. That was a
wonderful help.’’

Without the benefit of those sandbox drills, Minor once
spent more than 20 hours just getting ready to read his first
lesson in Japanese. His debut came with the 20th chapter of
the Gospel of John, one of his favorite passages of scripture,
on an Easter Sunday. Happily, his Japanese parishioners
recognized the scripture.

F.. many, the concept of missionary work conjures up
caricatures popularized by B movies in which white Christian
preachers headed into the wilds to save the souls of godless
natives. Minor Rogers is understandably uncomfortable with
such caricatures and other equally misleading notions of mis-

 

sion, particularly given the
nature of the work that he and
Ann conducted in Japan.

‘‘Ours was not the kind of
mission that many people might
expect—the kind where your
success is judged by the number
of converts,’’ says Minor. In-
stead, the Rogerses served an ex-
isting Episcopal parish in
Kagoshima prefecture. The
Japanese priest was studying in
America, and the Japanese
bishop had invited Minor to
serve the parish in the priest’s
absence.

‘‘We were there only to help
hold things together,’’ says
Minor. ‘‘We were immediately
part of an existing church family
and tried simply to fit into the
rhythm of life without attempt-
ing to change anything.’’

The parish did not change
during those two years, but Ann
and Minor did. That was not
unexpected. They had been
warned by one of Minor’s
seminary professors, himself a
former missionary. ‘‘He said we
would feel as though we were on
a bridge with one foot in one
culture and the other foot in
another culture,’’ Ann
remembers. ‘‘He told us, ‘You’ll never feel quite comfortable
again.’

‘*The experience causes you to question everything you
took for granted. Finally you realize there are no clearcut
answers in either place.”’

They were not jolted by any culture shock until they
returned to the States and had time to reflect on their four
years. One experience loomed particularly large for Minor. It
involved a resident of the village who was bedridden, suffering
from osteomyelitis.

‘*T visited this man often, and we had long talks. He had
grown up in a pious Shin Buddhist household and had become
a member of the Christian church later on,’’ Minor recalls. ‘‘I
remember he told me that even after becoming a Christian he
would, in moments of sudden pain or fright, recite the
Nembutsu—saying the Name of Amida Buddha. In a similar
situation, a Christian might say, ‘My Lord, my Lord’ or ‘God
help me.’

‘*The more often I would sit and talk with this man, the
more I came to understand that here was a person who was a
Christian in the fullest sense of the word, yet at moments he
said the Name of Buddha, Amida. It created an apparent
paradox: can one be a Buddhist and a Christian at the same
time? One cannot be a mother and a father simultaneously.
But one could have the qualities of both motherhood and
fatherhood, which has caused me to ask whether a person’s
faith could not be ‘flavored’ both by Buddhist and by Chris-
tian piety?’’ More puzzles.

 

QO... back in the States,
Minor began seeking solutions
to the puzzles. He studied
Japanese history at Princeton
and comparative religion at
Harvard.

‘*T got wrapped up in
Japanese culture and history.
The more I studied that the

 

once eee

seeeeee*"* more aware I became of how
oasis eee ; 4
seeeeeetee central Buddhism is,”’ he says.

geeaceeee ‘Eventually I focused on this
alctt-:a< man Rennyo, who institu-
; tionalized Shin Buddhism in
Japan.”’

Part of Minor’s Harvard
work included translating Ren-
nyo’s letters. Meantime, Ann
worked at a library and at
home, raising their three
children and typing Minor’s
manuscripts—another phase of
the partnership. ‘‘I can’t say
that I internalized much of what
I was typing between the
children’s naps,’”’ she confesses.

In 1972, the same year he
received his Ph.D. from Har-
vard, Minor joined the religion
faculty at W&L. Two years later
Ann began teaching Japanese at
W&L and finishing the
bachelor’s degree she had never
completed at Hollins. She received her B.A. in 1981. For the
past dozen years or so, the two of them, sometimes together,
sometimes separately, have become more and more immersed
in Japanese culture generally and Shin Buddhism particularly.

Since 1979, Minor Rogers has received several major grants
for research on Buddhism. One of those grants was from the
Japan Foundation for a year’s study in Kyoto. (Since their
four-year tenure as missionaries, Minor has been to Japan six
times and Ann has been back twice.) He has also received an
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation grant and was part of a group
that received a National Endowment for the Humanities grant
for work at Harvard’s John King Fairbank Center for East
Asian Research.

Shin Buddhism has been the focus of the research, but the
work invariably leads to comparative studies as Minor and
Ann attempt to understand both the common as well as the
different elements at work in all religious traditions.

For Ann Rogers, the pluralism of religious life has always
been an important issue. One childhood memory particularly
stands out.

‘On my grandmother’s desk was a picture of a man who
refused to enter one of the Buddhist heavens unless one of his
dogs could accompany him,”’ she says. ‘‘I remember thinking
at the time, ‘Hey, that’s not bad at all!’

‘‘Then, in Japan, I came to know Buddhists whose quality
of life was indeed wonderful. And I frankly struggled with the
exclusivity that some Christians claim for their faith.’’

Ultimately a passage written by Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a

  

W&L Ii

 

preeminent scholar under whom Minor worked at Harvard,
helped Ann put the matters in perspective.

‘Wilfred Smith wrote that while it is expressed differently
in various periods of history and various places, faith is that
potentially universal quality that makes us human. For Chris-
tians, it is expressed in one way; for Buddhists, it is expressed
in another. And we don’t have to say ‘either/or’ but we can
say ‘both/and.’ ”’

Today, more than when he began teaching at Washington
and Lee, Minor finds that his students, the vast majority of
whom have grown up in a culture shaped in part by the
Jewish and Christian traditions, have a greater awareness of
the religious pluralism that exists in the world. Such awareness
is the inevitable product of our shrinking globe, but there are
other reasons, too.

‘“We have students who may have one parent who is
Jewish and another who is Catholic. That brings pluralism
home,’’ Minor says. ‘‘Or, on a different scale, you cannot go
into a major metropolitan area in the United States without
noticing the presence of a Buddhist temple or a Muslim mos-
que. If you go through an airport, the Hare Krishnas are
there. Pluralism is everywhere we look.’’

Beyond becoming familiar with the details of, say, Bud-
dhism, for a purely academic understanding, what other pur-
pose might such study serve? Their experience together in
Japan combined with their research into the Rennyo letters
cause Minor and Ann Rogers to argue forcefully that studying
other religious traditions is an important step in understanding
and appreciating one’s own belief system.

‘“‘T don’t think we’re going to understand much until we
have seen things from different angles,’’ says Ann.

*‘Near a favorite spot of ours in New Hampshire, there is
a field that I love to photograph. I go there at various times
of the day, and each time I go the light is totally different. If
you took a picture only at one time of day, you might think
you’d captured that field. But you haven’t captured it at all
until you have been up there in all different kinds of light.
And you’re never going to have it, really.’’

Here, Minor interrupts to ask Ann: ‘‘Is the light God?’’

Ann: ‘‘I have never thought of it that way. I wouldn’t say
yes or no.’’

Minor: ‘‘I was just struck as you spoke that we’ve been
talking about seeing God in different ways.’’

Ann: ‘“‘Well, seeing what’s there, maybe that’s God, maybe
not.”’

This is a classic example of the partnership at work. The
Rogerses are constantly in conversation, bouncing ideas and
thoughts off one another, seeking to refine their shared
interests.

In a sense, their Washington and Lee teaching assignments
reflect that partnership, too. Just as the study of Eastern
religions can provide opportunities to picture faith in a variety
of lights, so can the study of language.

‘‘Japanese is a difficult language,’’ Ann says. ‘‘I don’t
know Russian, but people tell me the degree of difficulty is
similar between Japanese and Russian. The problem is that
there is not the common Latin root that there is in French or
Spanish.’’

By and large Washington and Lee students enter the study
of Japanese with little or no preparation—compared, at least,
with other foreign languages such as French and German and
Spanish. Occasionally a student arrives with some knowledge
of the language, sometimes from high school studies but more

12.0 W&L

often simply from exposure to the culture outside the
classroom.

‘‘We have students from metropolitan areas where there
are large concentrations of Japanese-Americans, and they
often have some idea of the language,’’ Ann says. ‘‘The
Japanese culture is alive in America now in a way that it was
not 10 years ago.”’

There are quite practical reasons for learning a foreign
language, whether it be Japanese or Chinese or French or
Russian. But, Ann argues, there is an inherent value above
and beyond the practicality. ‘“From my own point of view the
Japanese culture is so different from ours and there are so
many aspects that one benefits tremendously by knowing
something about it. No matter what the interest—international
law, theatre, art, literature, philosophy—you will find a range
of experience that is completely different from anything we
know. The very mindset of the people is different.

‘Studying Japanese for two years will only begin to ac-
quaint you with the culture, but it will make you aware of a
viewpoint very different from ours. And maybe that’s the best
reason to study a language—to begin to realize that there are
SO many perspectives, to begin to realize that ours is not the
definitive culture.’’

Am Rogers’s training and expertise have been modern
Japanese, not the classical language of Rennyo’s letters. ‘‘For
years Minor had been saying it would be wonderful if we
could work together on these letters,’’ says Ann. ‘‘I did what
I could, but I knew that I really couldn’t work in this period
until I had training in classical Japanese.’’ So for the past two
years On consecutive sabbatical leaves at Harvard and the
University of Virginia, she has been getting that training—and
her master’s degree.

One aggravating aspect of the Rennyo project, for Ann at
least, is knowing that these letters were written in colloquial
Japanese to be understood by unlettered peasants. Yet, she
spends hours on each sentence. ‘‘Ironic, isn’t it?’’ she asks.

Ironic, too, is the way the partnership has evolved recently.
When Minor was first translating the Rennyo letters at Har-
vard, it was Ann who provided the support. That has changed
now that, as Minor says, he has ‘‘handed the baton to Ann.’’

Now he supplies the books and encouragement. He even
does most of the grocery shopping these days to give her time
to work. ‘‘It is very much a joint project,’’ she says. ‘‘I’ll
work on a sentence for a while, then go in and worry Minor
over a word or a phrase.”’

Every word is so crucial because of the importance these
letters hold for Shin Buddhist theology.

‘‘Many volumes have been written about these letters, say-
ing ‘This is what Rennyo meant,’ ’’ Minor explains. ‘‘There is
often disagreement over what he did mean exactly.

**Last year at Harvard I worked with two Shin Buddhist
priests who disagreed on what the letters meant and often
looked at me to adjudicate these disagreements. That was an
uncomfortable position to be in. I am not a Shin Buddhist.
Neither is Ann. But I think we discovered in that process that
we probably know as much about this as anybody else, and I
think with Ann’s gift with the language and sensitivity to the
text that we have a chance to put together a good transla-
tion.’”’

All they must do is keep solving those puzzles.

The Hitler Quandary

 

Examining the Mysteries Behind the Man

 

by Henry A. Turner Jr., 54

 

Henry A. Turner Jr., *54, is professor of history and master of Davenport College at Yale
University. The author of several major works on German history, Professor Turner returned to
his alma mater in March to deliver the annual Phi Beta Kappa lecture. The text of Professor
Turner’s lecture forms the basis of his article, ‘‘The Hitler Quandary.’’

F ony-one years ago this April, as Rus-
sian troops stormed into the streets of
Berlin, a man committed suicide in a for-
tified bunker beneath the Reich
chancellory. On April 30, 1945, Adolf
Hitler vanished physically from the stage
of history. Yet Hitler remains a presence
in our lives more than four decades later.
On the television screen, we see him glar-
ing at us from beneath the visor of his
familiar officer’s cap; we hear his
unusual gravelly voice engaged in his
peculiar form of oratory. We encounter
him or his effects in television dramas,
motion pictures, and plays. His crooked
cross adorns the covers of pulp
magazines and fetishistic magazines by
the score. Schoolchildren shout his name
tauntingly at strict teachers. Apparently
that name remains a caustic epithet, one
of the few that still wounds in an age
when most have become shopworn.

Why is it that Hitler lingers with us in
a way that most actors in history do not?
I have a theory I would like to share with
you. It seems to me that while many peo-
ple were transfixed by what seemed to be
the death of God, they overlooked the
fact that the devil was perishing
simultaneously. And whereas there are
widespread reports that God will, after
all, survive the onslaught of seculariza-
tion, the devil seems a permanent casual-
ty. No vital signs emanate from Hades.
The posthumous career of Adolf Hitler
suggests to me that our culture has a
deep-seated need for a personification of
evil of the sort the devil so ably provided
for so long. With the devil gone, many
require a surrogate, and Adolf Hitler has
been drafted to meet that need.

This is just an idiosyncratic theory on
my part, which you can take or leave as
you like. It seems to me, however, that
there is another reason why Hitler oc-
cupies such a lasting and prominent place
in our collective memory. To put it sim-
ply, he changed the world in a way that
few actors in history have ever done.

By way of gauging that impact, I
would ask you to indulge with me in
some counter-factual analysis. This is a

W&L 13

 

14

 

W&L

kind of speculation that historians
sometimes engage in by asking what the
past would have been like if it were
possible to alter retroactively one of the
many variables that make it up. To ap-
proach the problem of Hitler in that way,
I ask you to imagine what today’s world
would be like if in August 1930, the
month before the Nazi party achieved its
initial breakthrough at the polls, Adolf
Hitler, lost in a revery of hatred, had
stepped off a curb in Munich into the
path of a beer wagon, had been crushed
under the hooves of the draft horses, and
had departed this orb 15 years earlier
than was actually to be the case. What
would the world be like if that had
happened?

Most historians would say that the
German republic, the Weimar Republic
established after the first World War,
would have collapsed even without
Hitler, the world depression being simply
too heavy a blow to its already fragile in-
stitutions. But without Hitler, the
Weimar Republic would not have been
succeeded by the Third Reich. The Third
Reich was a creation of Hitler’s party,
and that party could not have survived
without him. His minions despised each
other. Only their shared subservience to
Hitler kept them from each other’s
throats. His death would have created an
insuperable succession crisis, aS no one
could have succeeded him and kept the
Nazi party intact.

The most probable successor to the
Republic would have been a military dic-
tatorship, given the German heritage of
militarism, the strong position occupied
by the officer corps, and the availability
of a very able potential military dictator,
Kurt von Schleicher, who preceded Hitler
as chancellor. (Hitler appreciated
Schleicher’s talent for intrigue so much
that he saw to it that he received a bullet
in his heart a year after the establishment
of the Third Reich.)

A military dictatorship under the
leadership of a General Schleicher would
not have made the same deep mark on
history as did the Third Reich. It would
not have been a totalitarian regime; it
would have been an authoritarian regime.
It probably would not have lasted terribly
long. We know from observation that
military dictatorships do not institu-
tionalize well.

So we would not have had that scar
on our memory which the Third Reich
was to leave. That is not to say that all
would have been well without Hitler, that
there would have been peace. The prob-
ability of war would have remained high.

The goal of the German military was to
rearm Germany and to revise the Ver-
sailles peace settlement of 1919. For the
military the u/tima ratio was always war,
and it was prepared to use that means to
achieve its ends.

But such a war launched by the Ger-
man military and a German military dic-
tatorship would have been a very dif-
ferent war from the one which we actual-
ly experienced. It would have been a war
of territorial revision, aimed at revising
Germany’s eastern frontiers. The foe
would have been Poland, the state whose
re-creation after a century and a quarter
of absence from the maps of Europe
represented a great and grave affront to
most Germans, since the creation of
Poland had carved a large part of what
had been Germany out of that country
and had put it under a different flag.

A natural ally was available for such
a war of revision against Poland: the
Soviet Union, still smarting from the
defeat which the young Bolshevik state
had received at the hands of the Poles in
1919-1920. The Soviet Union had not
forgotten that it, too, had lost territory
with the re-creation of Poland. In addi-
tion, the German military had excellent
relations with the Soviet Union, which
had secretly aided German violations of
the Versailles Treaty’s disarmament
clauses in return for German help in
building up the Red Army.

To obtain favorable circumstances for
a limited war of revision, a German
military dictatorship would have sought
to placate Britain and France, in order to
keep them out of the conflict. The pros-
pects for success would have been good,
judging from the appeasement practiced
by the French and the British in the
1930s, when they proved very reluctant to
stop Hitler and helped him to carve up
Czechoslovakia at Munich in 1938 in
hopes of mollifying him. It required a
great deal of provocation on Hitler’s
part, finally to get the British and the
French into war in 1939, and a prudent
military dictatorship would have avoided
such provocation.

It thus does not seem absurd to im-
agine a war in which Germany, allied
with the Soviet Union, would proceed
against Poland, having secured the
neutrality of Britain and France. It prob-
ably would have been a brief war, with
relatively modest goals. The Germans
would not have gotten all they wanted,
but they would have gotten enough to
placate them. And after a few months,
the map of Europe would have settled
down again and people would have gone

 

back to their normal business.

Hitler’s war was, of course,
something very different. It was not a
war to restore the boundaries of 1914,
the pre-first World War boundaries. In-
stead, it was a crusade to conquer vast
territories stretching far beyond Poland,
deep into the Soviet Union, down to the
Caucasus and the Black Sea. The Ger-
mans would conquer these lands, kill off
most of the population, subjugate the re-
mainder, and then repopulate that ter-
ritory with sturdy German yeomen who
would cultivate those vast stretches of
fertile land.

Hitler was a social Darwinist who
drew the full and ugly consequences from
that pernicious doctrine. The world for
him was a jungle, where the fittest
prevailed over the weak by the law of the
tooth and the claw: the fittest grew in
number, and those who were not fit
perished. Viewed in the light of that doc-
trine, Germany had a choice of either ex-
panding or facing extinction. There was
no question in Hitler’s mind as to which
of those paths it must take.

The key to him always was arable
soil, land on which to grow food in order
to allow the population to increase.
Hitler’s was a war for Lebensraum, or
living space. It was an ideological war; it
was not in any sense a pragmatic war,
such as one could imagine the German
military, through a dictatorship, waging
in order to revise the boundaries drawn
at Versailles in 1919.

Britain and France were little more
than incidental in Hitler’s plans. The
Third Republic amounted to a negligible
factor for him. He assumed that a
preemptive military strike would suffice
to render France harmless. And indeed
the events of 1940 proved him right
about that, for his Blitzkrieg broke
French resistance in a matter of weeks.

Hitler viewed the British as Nordics
like the Germans and believed that this
racial link would prevail and produce an
Anglo-German alliance. He was prepared
to divide the globe very generously with
the British, letting them have Africa and
India. All he wanted was the Eurasian
continent.

His plans, of course, did not work
out. The British refused to bow to the
imperatives of ethnicity. They resisted
Hitler’s advances, followed their time-
honored policy of aligning themselves
against anyone who disrupted the balance
of power in Europe. After Hitler revealed
himself as a conqueror rather than a rec-
tifier of the injustices of Versailles by
violating the principle of national self-

determination in taking over the rump
Czech state in 1939, the British gave their
guarantee to Poland. When Hitler never-
theless invaded Poland, they made good
on their guarantee, to Hitler’s
astonishment.

So the British came into the war
against Hitler, and he found himself
bogged down in a war in the west for
which he had not allowed. It was a stub-
born Britain, protected by its valiant
Royal Air Force that foiled Hitler, suc-
cessfully resisting his efforts to break the
will of the British people through the
Blitz—the terrible saturation bombing of
civilian centers by the Luftwaffe. Losing
patience, Hitler launched his invasion of
Russia in June of 1941 and began to ex-
pand what had been a European conflict
into the first truly global war—a global
war in which the United States became
embroiled when the Japanese attacked
Pearl Harbor in December 1941 and
Hitler decided to declare war on the
United States. Fortunately, Hitler lost his
war, but we still live with the wreckage.
And if we return to our counter-factual
analysis, we can measure Hitler’s historic
importance by thinking of what the world
would be like today without the effects
of his war.

T;. first major difference is that there
would be no Cold War. Hitler brought
the Red Army into central Europe by in-
vading the Soviet Union. He is the ar-
chitect of today’s Soviet Bloc. Without
Hitler, the USSR would still be locked
behind the cordon sanitaire of states
established in eastern Europe at Versailles
in 1919. It would be a remote land,
hamstrung by quaint, ideological preoc-
cupations with crippling economic effects.
The Soviet Union would be no threat to
anyone today without Adolf Hitler’s role
in history.

The second major difference is that
without Hitler, there would be no Middle
Eastern imbroglio of the kind we have
grown accustomed to. For without Hitler
there would be no state of Israel and no
Palestinian problem. It is because of
Hitler that we and foreseeable genera-
tions must wrestle with the conundrum
which the Middle East continues to pre-
sent. His second great fixation, alongside
the conquest of Lebensraum, was his im-
placable hatred of Jews. That hatred led
to the most horrendous crime of modern
history: the systematic, industrialized
slaughter of millions of innocent men,
women, and children—a mass murder on
a scale that has forced us to accom-
modate in our civic vocabulary the bar-

baric concept of the Holocaust.

Anyone who studies the record must
conclude that only the Holocaust made
possible the foundation of the modern
state of Israel in a world profoundly
shocked by such unimaginable evil. The
Holocaust remains one of the traumas
that we all bear with us—a searing
memory of the full meaning of evil,
based on events that occurred in the” |
lifetimes of many of us.

The third major difference in our
world without Hitler would be the
absence of the second great trauma of
the century—Hiroshima. Only Hitler’s
war in Europe emboldened the Japanese
to launch their war against the British,
French, and Dutch colonial empires in
Asia and eventually against the United
States as well. Without Hitler, there
would have been no American atom
bomb dropped on Hiroshima, no war at
all for Americans, in fact, in the 1940s.

The implications for the United States
of that minor counter-factual adjustment
that I suggested we think about would be
very profound and far-reaching. Without
Hitler, Americans would be driving
nothing but American-made cars, watch-
ing American-made television sets, listen-
ing to American-made radios. For the
Japanese would have had no time to
flood our markets. They would have been
busy palming off shoddy goods on their
one billion Chinese subjects all of these
decades, since this counter-factual re-
adjustment precludes the liberation of
China. It would still be under Japanese
rule.

Without Hitler, this country would be
different in many other respects, too.
Science and technology would not have
advanced at the same rate. The war ac-
celerated scientific and technological ad-
vance enormously in this country. If you
subtract that, you have a different
America. If you subtract the emigre in-
tellectuals who came here, having been
driven out of Europe by Hitler’s regime,
you have a different scientific and
scholarly landscape in America—a much
less lively one, which would now be
decades behind where we actually find
ourselves in 1986. Hitler’s gift to America
has yet to be fully appreciated by us.

But enough of this counter-factual
speculation. It is an exercise helpful in
gauging the importance of a person or an
institution in the past, but it becomes
highly problematic beyond a certain
point. I hope it sufficed to illustrate the
importance of Adolf Hitler; sufficed, I
hope, to demonstrate that he was, in the

technical sense of the term which
W&L 15

 

16

 

W&L

precludes all value judgments, a ‘‘great’’
man. I use the word ‘‘great,’’ that is, to
denote only a person who changes the
course of history.

I would argue that Hitler stands, in
fact, in this limited value-free sense, as
the greatest figure of the 20th century. I
have made a list of some great names:
Kaiser Wilhelm II, Woodrow Wilson,
Georges Clemenceau, Franklin Roosevelt,
Winston Churchill, Charles de Gaulle,
Joseph Stalin, Mao Tse-tung, Gandhi. I
think none of those can be said to have
had the same impact on history that
Hitler had. In fact, if we look at
Roosevelt, Churchill, de Gaulle, Stalin,
Mao Tse-tung, and Gandhi, we realize
their careers are in large measure func-
tions of Hitler’s. His only possible rival
would seem to me to be Lenin. But, as
we have seen, without Hitler the Soviet
Union would not bulk as large in the
world as it does today, and so Lenin,
too, would shrink in significance.

The challenge remains of how to ex-
plain this man Adolf Hitler. How could
this homeless vagrant from the streets
and charity shelters of Vienna and
Munich rise to become the most impor-
tant man in the world and change the
course of human history? How could a
man who physically fit the bill of a hair-
dresser or a barber or a waiter much
more closely than that of a great leader
exude such charisma as to gain the
following of millions of people? How
could a man without a formal education
beyond the age of 16 gain the respect of
sO many members of the elite in one of
the world’s most advanced countries?

These are some of the mysteries con-
nected with the name of Adolf Hitler.
Historians have told the story of his rise
and reign over and over again. They can
account for each step in his rise and fall.
They may squabble about this and that
aspect, but they are pretty well agreed on
the basic record.

And yet, they have not adequately ex-
plained the central actor: Hitler himself.
They, along with social scientists, have
identified the circumstances of his rise,
especially the responsiveness of so many
Germans. Hitler never received a majori-
ty vote; neither did his party. But they
did secure the votes of about a third of
the German electorate in free elections.
That was enough to put Hitler in a posi-
tion so that by backroom intrigue he
could be shoehorned into power in 1933.

We know a great deal about the men-
tality of that time in Germany, about the

bitterness of Germans at the loss of the
war, about the humiliation of the Ver-
sailles Treaty, about the destructive ef-
fects of the great postwar inflation that
robbed the currency of all value and
robbed the people of millions of their
savings, and about the impact of the
great world depression with its mass
unemployment. Thanks to the work of
historians and social scientists, we have
identified the necessary causes for
Hitler’s rise.

But we do not yet know the sufficient
causes. What was it about this man at
the center that enabled him to pull the
whole show together and make it work as
it did? The Marxists have an ingenious
solution. They ignore Hitler. According
to their doctrine, he was a mere surface
manifestation of hidden causes in the
economic substructure of society—a
symptom and not a causal factor in his
own right. There are no biographies of
Adolf Hitler in communist-ruled coun-
tries. According to communist doctrine,
he was simply not important.

The disciplines that begin with the let-
ters psych have long wrestled with the
problem of history. But the difficulties
have proved, in my judgment, in-
superable for the psychologists and the
psychiatrists and the psychoanalysts who
have tried to fathom Hitler. I would
place the results on dead zero so far.

An analyst cannot put a dead man on
the couch. Psychoanalysis requires a liv-
ing analyst and a living analysand in
order to function as Dr. Freud taught.
One cannot perform it retroactively on
the dead, although many have tried.
What we are left with amounts to a great
deal of speculation. Hitler has been
diagnosed as the victim of every con-
ceivable mental pathology in the many
publications on this subject. When a
discipline of inquiry functions effectively,
the findings of its practitioners usually
demonstrate a growing consensus. We
find no such consensus in the many at-
tempts at a psychobiography of Adolf
Hitler. Instead, the conflicting theories
cancel each other out.

Interestingly, we find few serious
claims that Hitler was insane. He had an
all-too-firm grasp on reality. He ruled a
major country for 12 years after captur-
ing control of its government; he waged
war for six years against a large part of
the world and came perilously close to
winning. If Hitler had made a few deci-
sions differently in his Russian campaign,
a great many military historians think he
could have broken the Soviet Union. And

 

if he had done that, the Eurasian conti-
nent would have been his. It would then
have been extremely difficult to dislodge
him.

For a long time many people found a
satisfactory answer to the problem of
Hitler in what might be called the theory
of cultural pathology. He was a German:
although technically an Austrian, he was
culturally a German. And Germans, ac-
cording to this theory of cultural
pathology, come in only two varieties:
they are either tyrants or subservient
lackies. Germans thirsted either to
dominate or be dominated. So what
could you expect of Hitler and the Ger-
mans? Hitler was the product of a
cultural trait ingrained in the nation to
which he belonged.

In the 1940s, when such theories
flourished, they appeared plausible. After
all, the Germans had achieved little by
way of success in trying to rule
themselves up to that point. The German
Republic had collapsed; Hitler had attain-
ed power; and from all indications the
Germans seemed quite happy with the
Third Reich that he gave them.

But from the vantage point of today,
the Germans appear in a different light.
We see in the middle of Europe one of
the most stable democracies in the world:
the Federal Republic of West Germany,
where democratic institutions have func-
tioned for four decades quite smoothly
and effectively. Germans can obviously
govern themselves and elect humane of-
ficials. The theory of cultural pathology
no longer seems as plausible as it did in
the 1940s.

A. time passes and we gain increasing
distance, Hitler becomes more and not
less disturbing. In part that is because it
seems less and less important that he was
a German. For from a greater remove,
Hitler’s principal characteristic becomes
that he was one of us: a member of our
species, homo sapiens. His crimes were
committed by one of us.

That is the lasting quandary posed by
the strange career of this strange man,
Adolf Hitler. How can we fit him into
our conception of humanity? How much
do we have to modify our definition of
homo sapiens to fit in this man?

To deal with this quandary, we have
to study the man. We have to abandon
the stereotypical Hitlers that have taken
on lives of their own: the maniacal
demon subject to uncontrollable rages,
the Teppichfresser who would fall on the
floor and chew the carpet in fits of rage.

There was no such Hitler. If there had
been, he would have posed no peril: he
would never have gotten power. The
trouble was that the man had complete
control over himself and seemed eminent-
ly believable to his contemporaries, or at
least enough of them to get him into
power and keep him there.

We also have to abandon the
stereotype which in considerable measure
goes back to that remarkable motion pic-
ture The Great Dictator, made by Charlie
Chaplin before the crimes of Hitler’s
regime became apparent in their full ex-
tent. We see Chaplin’s Hinkel dressed up
like Hitler, tossing about a huge globe of
the world, indulging petty whims: an
empty-headed knave who somehow finds
himself with political power.

That stereotype does not work at all,
either. Hitler was not empty-headed; he
was much worse than any knave. One
fact that intellectuals have a hard time
accepting is that Hitler was highly in-
telligent. He had a mind of great vigor;
he had wide-ranging interests—in history,
anthropology, art, music, architecture.
To be sure he was a dilettante, but not a
vacuous dilettante.

He had impressive conceptual powers
and worked out for himself a distinctive
and coherent Weltanschauung—a world
view; that is, he strove to make sense of
the world and analyze its determinants,
the driving forces in human affairs. He
wrestled with profound issues. We find
his analysis unacceptable because we re-
ject its premises; but if those premises are
accepted, there is a logic to Hitler’s
thought which reveals a formidable in-
tellect at work, an intellect that was
equipped with a prodigious memory
which could master complex military data
at one reading and enable him to deal
with generals and admirals on an equal
footing, despite his lack of formal train-
ing in that sphere.

Hitler’s intelligence was a major fac-
tor in his charisma. The burning intensity
in his eyes; the rumbling baritone voice;
the unshakeable conviction with which he
threw his words into the face of his
listeners: these were not the sole factors
in Hitler’s charisma. The robustness of
his mind simply overwhelmed many peo-
ple who came into contact with him.
Military experts repeatedly found
themselves cowed by his command of
data in their field of expertise. Their
sober skepticism vaporized in the face of
his resourceful arguments in favor of
launching a war most of them felt very,
very uneasy about. His arguments then
led them to continue the fighting long

after they had concluded that the war
had been lost.

All of this might seem inappropriate
for a gathering like this at a fine
American university on the day when we
honor Phi Beta Kappa initiates. But I
think it is not altogether irrelevant to
what brings us together here today.

Hitler’s mind was fecund and
vigorous. But it produced pernicious
ideas, ideas that led to unimaginable
atrocities and crimes on a scale beyond
the comprehension of anyone prior to his
time, ideas that plunged the world into
carnage and destruction and left the
country he ruled devastated, divided, and
diminished.

How could this happen? Part of the
answer lies in the way Hitler’s mind
developed. He had a superior intelligence,
but it was undisciplined, wholly lacking
in self-doubt, unrestrained by any form
of objectivity beyond the most
rudimentary.

One reason for this was that Hitler
was an autodidact. He was quite literally
a self-made man who picked up his
knowledge on his own from cheap pulp
books, from the newspapers and
magazines he encountered in the cafes of
Munich and Vienna. He incorporated in-
to his Weltanschauung whatever informa-
tion came his way that seemed to confirm
his prejudices. He ignored whatever in-
formation contradicted or was incompati-
ble with his preconceptions.

Hitler never experienced the intellec-
tual challenge of give-and-take with other
minds on an equal footing. He was never
called upon to reassess his premises or
review his reasoning in the light of
friendly criticism. He was not encouraged
to consider the possible validity of views
that conflicted with his. He was, in short,
never exposed to a liberal education, that
kind of broad, humane education that
leads its beneficiaries to subject their own
ideas to critical scrutiny and to cultivate

‘objectivity about their own opinions. A

liberal education is one that tempers
vigorous young minds and keeps them
from straying into the kind of fanaticism
we saw in Hitler.

One of the lessons to be drawn from
the Hitler quandary is that high in-
telligence without the tempering effects of
liberal education can give rise to great
perils for our species. Phi Beta Kappa
recognizes this in honoring not in-
telligence as such, but rather disciplined
intellectual attainment of the sort achiev-
ed by the initiates here at Washington

and Lee, whom I salute.
W&L 17

Courting Reform

 

Sol Wachtler, “52, Receives Top Grades in New York

 

 

 

by Brian Shaw

th LE, thi

   

~
°
~
=~
L
=
~
~
~
=
—
=
=
<
>
=
=
=
S
aS

 

T.. year is 1952. Sol Wachtler, a Washington and Lee law
student, is chairman of the New York delegation of the Mock
Convention. With the national media (including a reporter
named Edward R. Murrow) in attendance and a packed
Doremus Gymnasium audience hanging on his every word,
Wachtler delivers the nominating speech for Dwight D.
Eisenhower.

Although he grew up in the South in a household where
his father displayed an affinity for Republican politics—‘‘he
had an inclination to be in favor of the underdog,’’ Wachtler
says—the young man is not well versed in the traditions and
philosophies of the Grand Old Party. The speech Wachtler
delivers is the product of considerable research he has con-
ducted with Daniel Reisner, chairman of the real New York
delegation.

The speech works. Eisenhower wins the convention’s
nomination for president, and Wachtler telephones the
nominee to relay the good news.

‘‘That was very exciting,’’ Wachtler recalls. ‘‘General
Eisenhower thanked us very much and thanked me very much.
Of course, when I did eventually go to New York state and
plunged into the political world there, I gravitated toward the
Republican party. I never even thought of anything else.’’

Today, whenever Wachtler retraces his political lineage and
the steps that took him from a local councilman on Long
Island to his current post as chief judge of the New York
State Court of Appeals—the highest judicial office in that
state—he invariably goes back to that spring day in Doremus
Gymnasium in 1952.

‘It all started with nominating Eisenhower at the Mock
Convention.’’

I, retrospect, Sol Wachtler and Washington and Lee seemed
a perfect match from the beginning.

‘‘As I was growing up, I was taught that Washington and
Lee was the Harvard of the South. I always thought it was the
kind of school I wanted to go to,’’ he says. ‘‘And I always
wanted to be a lawyer. I never wanted to be anything else. My
father was a travelling auctioneer who eventually went into the
retail jewelry business. He would never allow me to become in
any way exposed to the business. He always impressed upon
me that I was to be the professional in the family. I was
Sheltered for academic pursuits.’’

Wachtler accepted his father’s mandate. In only five years
at W&L (and with some summer course work at New York
University), he received both his B.A. degree (in English) and
his LL.B. degree, thereby accomplishing in five years what the
majority of today’s students require seven years to do.
Wachtler distinguished himself in the classrooms, both as an
undergraduate and a law student, but he also made his mark
on the Colonnade through extracurricular activities.

His Calyx entries from 1951 and 1952 read like a laundry
list of campus committees and awards: ODK, Forensic Union,
Washington Literary Society, Intercollegiate Debate Team,
Christian Council, President’s Advisory Committee, Student
War Memorial Committee, Interfraternity Council, awards as
the outstanding freshman and sophomore and the Washington
Award for the outstanding senior, various dance committees
(including Fancy Dress), and election to Who’s Who Among
Students in American Colleges and Universities.

Although clearly proud of his accomplishments, Wachtler
is a bit embarrassed by a recitation of that lengthy list. He

does not want to appear boastful. His natural inclination
toward modesty is as much a part of his personality as his
congeniality.

‘*T had not been involved in many extracurricular activities
before I came to W&L, but I became very involved here,’’ he
says. ‘“‘It wasn’t as if I was trying to be a big shot. I just en-
joyed becoming involved with those activities. I developed
what I consider marvelous relationships with my fellow
students. The activities became labors of love and commit-
ment. But I used to take a lot of ribbing. I was the guy with
the huge key ring and all the office keys on my belt.’”’

Wachtler got his first dose of undergraduate politics even
before the Mock Convention. In the early ’50s, he remembers,
the campus was divided into two separate groups—the Big
Clique and the Little Clique. Most campus officers and club
presidents came from the Big Clique. The Little Clique, of
which Wachtler was a member, usually held the second tier of
campus Offices.

‘‘One day a fellow named Bill Cogar developed the in-
genious idea that no campus officers could be nominated if
the Little Clique boycotted the convention, because all the
students were required to nominate both slates of officers,’’
Wachtler says. ‘‘They would nominate both the Big Clique
and the Little Clique slates, but the quorum for nomination
required that the majority of students be present.

‘*The Little Clique boycotted the convention and the Big
Clique couldn’t nominate its officers. So the officers of both
parties met and the Little Clique said, ‘We’re not going to at-
tend the convention and allow you to have any campus of-
ficers at all unless you allow one of our people to hold an of-
fice.” The Big Clique caved in.”’

The result: Sol Wachtler, student body vice president.

The pattern of involvement in all areas of campus life con-

tinued through 1952, Wachtler’s last year in law school. This

time it was the prodding of one professor, Clayton E.
Williams (known to his students as ‘‘Skinny’’), that produced
one of Wachtler’s most enduring contributions to Washington
and Lee.

Wachtler tells the story this way: ‘‘I still get sweaty palms
when I think about Property IV from Skinny Williams. At the
end of each class, Professor Williams would say, ‘ ’At’ll do.’
Then we’d all pick up our books and leave. I remember fall-
ing asleep in class one day and some students had just recited
a case. In my dream, I heard Williams say, ‘ ’At’ll do.’ So I
slammed my book, got up, and was walking out.

‘fAs I was three-quarters out the door, Professor Williams
said, ‘Wachtler, I want to see you after class.’ I was very ner-
vous. I thought he was going to quiz me on the law against
perpetuities, but he said: ‘You know, Wachtler, we don’t have
a Moot Court here at Washington and Lee. You’re a good
organizer. Why don’t you organize a student bar association
here at the law school and start the Moot Court?’ ”’

Wachtler did just that and, naturally, was elected the first
president of the SBA.

Since his graduation from law school, Wachtler has return-
ed to Washington and Lee on two occasions. He came back in
1981 to receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. And he

_ came back this past April to serve on the panel of judges for
the annual Moot Court competition.

‘One of the reasons I’m thrilled to be back,’’ Wachtler
told a visitor before donning his robe for the Moot Court
competition, ‘‘is because I helped start this.’’

W&L 19

 

S,; Wachtler is a marvelous comic mimic. In the course of a
conversation, he will routinely break into an animated imper-
sonation. He allows himself a quick laugh if he thinks his ac-
cent and inflection are on target.

In a discussion about the W&L professors he remembers,
Wachtler slips quickly into a guttural Elizabethan accent to
quote Professor Fitzgerald Flournoy. ‘‘ ‘Plucking turnips from
the dark, deep earth,’ ’’ he utters in proper Shakespearean
tone.

But it is Wachtler’s imitation of Nelson Rockefeller, a man
he admired and respected, that really gets him going.

‘* *Sooooooool,’ ’’ Wachtler says as he launches into his
Rockefeller with his best nasal, New York accent that drags
the single syllable into four, ‘‘ ‘this is Nelson. I’d like to sit
down and talk to you.’ ”’

Wachtler is recounting a phone conversation he had with
Rockefeller in 1967. At the time, Wachtler had rejected over-
tures by the Republican Party to run for the county executive
of Nassau County, N.Y. ‘‘A suicide race’’ is the way Wachtler
describes it. The incumbent had won the previous election by
90,000 votes. He was ‘‘very well liked, very secure, and very
honest.’’ After he received the phone call, Wachtler went to
Albany to visit Gov. Rockefeller.

‘“‘I went up there determined not to run and to convince
him I was not doing a terrible thing. When I walked out of
his office he had the press there ready to announce my can-
didacy. And I did. I’ve never met a more persuasive man in
my whole life. Incredible. So I ran, never thinking I would
win.”’

And he didn’t. But Wachtler did come within 2,000 votes
of what would have been a major upset. The nine-month cam-
paign cost more than $400,000 and was one of the first to
make extensive use of the mass media in ways that have since
become commonplace in contemporary campaigns. CBS pro-
duced a documentary, Campaign American Style, about the
race and Wachtler’s tactics.

‘*I still get letters every year from people who have seen
the documentary and want to know if I’m still alive,’’
Wachtler says. ‘‘The documentary is terribly distorted. It’s the
kind of thing that lets me empathize with Gen. Westmoreland
and his battle with CBS.”’’

The documentary, Wachtler says, implied that he was try-
ing to be all things to all voters, that he engaged in activities
just to be associated with a particular constituency. That was
not true, he maintains. It was important to reach every seg-
ment of the diverse electorate, and that, says Wachtler, was
what he was trying to accomplish.

‘‘Every morning I went to the commuter stations at 5 and
6 o'clock to shake hands [with voters]. My right hand is still
about twice the size of my left from all the shaking,’’ he says,
holding up his palms for illustration. ‘‘It was an awful lot of
hard work. But that’s what the people look for.”’

Shortly after Wachtler’s defeat, and perhaps as much in
return for his campaign efforts as for his solid reputation as a
lawyer, Rockefeller appointed Wachtler to fill a vacant seat on
the New York Supreme Court in January 1968. He won re-
election to the seat in November of that year and served until
1972 when he was elected to the New York State Court of Ap-
peals, the state’s highest court.

In 1985, Wachtler was nominated by Gov. Mario Cuomo,
a Democrat, for the chief justice position. He became the
State’s highest-ranking jurist when a senate committee con-
firmed his appointment.

20 W&L

‘‘My current office was chosen by a Democratic gover-
nor,’’ Wachtler says. ‘‘That’s the ultimate irony.’’

66

| time someone runs for public office, whether it’s
in New York City or New York state, every judge cringes
because we know we are going to be beat up. People love to
hear it.’’

Wachtler is discussing the political hazards of being a
judge in New York. He is, as usual, animated and laughing.
Yet, the subject is a deadly serious one for him, and that is
apparent as he talks.

‘‘T remember one politician, a very good friend of mine,
who was giving a campaign speech and referred to a judge
who had been mugged. Then he asked the crowd: ‘You know
how we can improve the criminal justice system? Mug him
again!’ And the people waved their hands and said,
‘Yaaaaaaaaaaay!’ It’s terrible,’’ Wachtler says, laughing.

When Wachtler became chief judge of the New York
Court of Appeals, he inherited two distinct roles. One is chief
judge of the court of appeals, which—as the court of last ap-
peal in the state—reviewed more than 1,400 cases in 1984.

His other role is that of chief judge of the state of New
York. In this latter position, Wachtler supervises a system that
includes 12,000 non-judicial personnel and 3,000 judges in 266
courthouses. The annual budget is about $600 million. More
than 2.5 million cases are resolved annually in all the New
York courts.

‘‘Just to give you some idea of the dimension,’’ Wachtler
Says, “‘we handle 10 times more cases in one year in New
York state than in all the federal courts in all the 50 states
during the same period of time. When I go to conferences of
chief justices to discuss problems in state court systems, I have
little in common with them because New York is so very
unique.

‘‘There is no state that can boast of more ingenious
lawyers or more ingenious criminals. The kinds of cases are
incredible. It’s a tremendous challenge and obligation. It is an
exciting thing to be a part of.’’

With such a huge case load and low public esteem for the
judiciary, Wachtler knew he faced a tough road when he
became chief judge. He started his innovations almost im-
mediately, addressing the state senate and assembly in the
first-ever ‘‘State of the Judiciary’’ speech. He outlined his
blueprint for change and set in motion the actions he hoped
would streamline the judiciary. Wachtler and the state court
system have taken tremendous strides forward since then.

In the Dec. 12, 1985, issue of the New York Law Journal,
Daniel Wise wrote: ‘‘In a little less than a year, Chief Judge
Sol Wachtler has restored public confidence in the court
system, raised the morale of the judges and non-court person-
nel to a new high, and proven to be an adept leader in seeking
creative solutions to the most pressing problems in the state’s
court system.’’ The story, which featured favorable reviews
from New York City Mayor Ed Koch, the president of the
New York State Bar Association, and other judges, was
headlined: ‘‘Wachtler Graded ‘A’ for First Year in Office.’’

In that first year, Wachtler threw out the traditional
master calendar system for judges and replaced it with an in-
dividual assignment system. Under Wachtler’s plan, a case is
placed in the hands of one judge who sees that case complete-
ly through the final disposition.

‘In the past, if a motion was made in a case, it was
assigned to another judge. As a result, we could have one case

 

 

that could pass through the hands of 10 or 12 judges,’’
Wachtler explains.

‘We thought the best system would be individual assign-
ment, where as soon as judicial intervention was required in a
case, the case was assigned to a judge and that judge would
have the case from that moment to the final disposition. You
couldn’t duplicate motions; you couldn’t get adjournments
that were meaningless; the judge could assign dates certain for
trial. The final returns aren’t in yet, but we have every reason
to believe the system has been a great success.”’

The jury selection process is another area Wachtler has
changed. In New York judges, rather than lawyers, now select
the jurors.

‘“‘In some criminal cases it was taking three months to
select a jury. Now we have judges doing it. We’ve cut down
two-week selections to three hours.’’

Wachtler has also sought to consolidate the courts. In New
York, there are eight separate courts—‘‘crazy,’’ he calls it.
‘‘Our system makes any other state look almost basic and sim-
ple in comparison.”’

The very appearance of the courtrooms is among his con-
cerns. ‘We desperately need court facilities,’’ he says. ‘‘Peo-
ple come into our courthouses and get the impression that
they are receiving not only justice denied, but justice degrad-
ed. We have courthouses in New York City that are reminis-
cent of Calcutta during a bazaar. You can’t walk down the
halls because of the pedestrians.’’

And there is what Wachtler terms ‘‘a desperate need’’ for
new judges. ‘‘We have 60 judges in New York City to handle
26,000 cases in the criminal court. That means that each judge
can spend three and a half minutes on each case. The criminal
judge simply cannot try cases. What do they do? They’re
plead out. So the word in New York City is if you grab a
mugger or a purse snatcher, the odds are heavily in favor of
that person not being tried.”’

Once a conviction is gained, Wachtler says, there is no
place to send the criminal.

‘“We are at 115 percent capacity in our jails,’’ he explains.
‘“We have 35,000 people in our state penitentiaries. Then we
have people in public office in New York state who say if the
judges weren’t so soft-hearted and soft-headed they would put
more of these people in jail, and we would have less crime.
The fact is, none of those 35,000 people went there [to the
penitentiary] voluntarily. They were all put there by judges.
We don’t have any more room.

Wachtler talks with third-year law student
Ralph Walter of Glenside, Pa., following
the Moot Court finals in April. Wachtler
was one of three judges who served on the
Moot Court panel.

‘“We have to deal with the public perception that courts
are blamed for crime without any recognition that we are at
the wrong end of the criminal cycle. One of the problems I
have is improving the public perception of the courts and try-
ing to educate the public as to what the role of the courts is.
We’re not there as quiet extensions of the prosecutor’s arm.
We’re there to do justice. We should do it free from the pas-
sions of the crowd and free from the passions of the mo-
ment.’’

The problems courts face all over the country, Wachtler
acknowledges, are an inevitable extension of the growing trend
toward litigation in the United States.

‘“We have a litigious society where people seek redress in
the courts,’’ he says. ‘‘That is really one of the cornerstones
of our democratic process. But I think today it is overused.
The legislative bodies have been unwilling to make a lot of
hard choices. I can remember that when we (the Nassau
County Board of Supervisors) handed down a determination
with respect to the zoning of property, I knew whichever side
lost would take us to court. And I knew the court would
ultimately decide if the property was zoned properly. The only
thing we can do is continually urge the legislature to under-
take the resolution of these problems.’’

A. age 56, Wachtler—still youthful and vigorous—is at the
apex of his career. His plans for reforming New York’s courts
should keep him busy for years to come. Behind him now are
the political aspirations that had been in the back of
Wachtler’s mind since his Mock Convention speech. In 1982,
he declined to seek the Republican nomination for governor of
New York, although many experts thought he could win.

‘I realized that I would have to give up the independence
of being a judge, and start all over,’’ Wachtler told The New
York Times in explaining his decision. ‘‘That was a trade-off I
wasn’t willing to make.’’

There is, however, one position for which Wachtler’s name
is sometimes whispered. It is a position, he says, that ‘‘every
appellate judge would aspire to.’’ It is a seat on the United
States Supreme Court.

‘*To be realistic, and recognizing the exigencies of the
times and the realities, there is no possibility of that,’’
Wachtler says. ‘‘That does not mean that I would in any way
be unhappy [if it never happened] because the challenges |
presently have are plenty. I have everything I want.’’

W&L 21

 

Walt Michaels, ’51, delivers the reunion keynote in Lee Chapel.

pring
Reunions

 

Classes of *36 and ’61
Make Major Gifts

 

Tw. major class gifts, the unveiling of a new Lee Chapel
plaque in honor of a military hero, and the memories of
Washington and Lee’s most famous football player were
among the highlights of the annual spring reunions in May.

Approximately 440 alumni and their guests descended on
Lexington for the three days of activities, which included
varied events ranging from panel discussions led by faculty
members to a concert featuring three University vocal
ensembles to picnics, barbecues, and banquets—all spiced
liberally with reminiscing.

The festivities got off to a fast start when Walt Michaels,
°51, the fullback/linebacker who starred on the Generals’ 1950
Gator Bowl team, presented a ‘‘Fullback’s Flashbacks’’ as the
keynote address.

Michaels, who played 11 seasons in the National Football
League and later coached pro football’s New York Jets and
New Jersey Generals, recalled that he had been offered
scholarships by many larger schools.

But, added Michaels, ‘‘it was an honor for me to come [to
W&L] at that time. . . I know only one thing: I picked the
right place.’’

There may have been a few times, Michaels admitted, that
some wondered whether a school of Washington and Lee’s
size had any business competing against college football’s
heavyweights. ‘‘It was amazing that we were able to stick
together and even get on the field with some of those teams,’’
he said.

22 W&L

 

 

 

 

A)

     
     

Calvert G. deColigny Jr., 61, remembers Dean Frank J. Gilliam in
ceremonies behind the soon-to-be-renovated Gilliam Admissions
House.

     
 

 

 

(1 oP of y CUNO Hii
PM nay 10,1906_ ene :

umade Kesloralion Endowment ‘
b oath! Gul fS ;
$

\ ferred Gills
§

   

 

  

Other Gifts ae a
‘ncreased Annyal Fund |

 

Associate Development Director Bill Washburn, ’40, displays a check
that reflects the Class of ’36 reunion gift of more than $450,000.

 

One incident that still stands out in
Michaels’ mind is the Generals’ narrow
27-21 loss at the University of Tennessee
in 1950.

‘‘We showed up at Knoxville in one
bus, just 33 people, and there was a
crowd of 75,000 waiting to see us just get
knocked all over the place,’’ Michaels
recalled. ‘‘I’ll never forget one of their
fans hollered, ‘Hey, is that all you got on
the team?’ And I think it was Bob
Goldsmith (51) who said, ‘That’s all
we’ve got. We didn’t bring the student
body with us. They’re on the other bus.’

‘*But when it was over, all I know is
that General Neyland [the Tennessee
coach] didn’t have much hair left. That
game is probably as indicative as
anything that was done here at the
University as far as athletics is concern-
ed.’’

Meantime, two of the classes—1936
and 1961—celebrated their 50th and 25th
reunions, respectively, by making major
gifts to the University, culminating many
months of fund-raising by members of
both those classes.

The Class of ’36 presented an endow-
ment gift of more than $451,230 during
the Alumni Association meeting in Lee
Chapel. The fund is designed to maintain
the University’s historic Colonnade
buildings and to provide scholarship
monies. Kenneth P. Lane, chairman of
the 1936 Reunion Gift Committee, made
the presentation on behalf of the class.

The Class of ’61’s gift of $250,000
will be used to restore and renovate the
antebellum house at 32 University Place
on the Front Campus. Once restored, the
house will become the home of the
University’s admissions and financial aid
offices and will be named the Frank J.
Gilliam Admissions House in honor of
the beloved former dean.

‘‘Honoring the memory of Dean
Gilliam was our objective from the very
start, because he had such a profound ef-
fect on our lives,’’ William R. Johnston,
chairman of the 1961 Reunion Gift Com-
mittee, said during a ceremony dedicating
the Gilliam House.

In remarks at that ceremony Calvert
G. deColigny Jr., a member of the Re-
union Gift Committee, added: ‘‘In in-
fluence and effect, a comparison can be
made between Dean Gilliam and Univer-
sity President Robert E. Lee. Lee was
here five years, and his death ended his
service to the University. Gilliam was
here 50 years. He worked for the Univer-
sity until his death. The world accepts
that General Lee set the standard and

eee sé

 

From left, Bertram R. Schewel, Samuel B. Hollis, and Richard H. Turrell

 

Distinguished Alumni Honored

Pic alumni were presented Washington and Lee’s Distinguished Alumnus Award
during the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May 9.
The recipients, selected by the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, were:
¢ Samuel B. Hollis, 51, of Memphis, president of Federal Compress & Warehouse

Company Inc.;

¢ Bertram R. Schewel, ’41, of Lynchburg, president of Schewel Furniture

Company;

¢ Richard H. Turrell, ’49, of Short Hills, N.J., senior vice president of Fiduciary

Trust Company of New York.

In addition to their numerous professional and civie achievements, the recipients
were honored for their service to Washington and Lee.

Hollis has been a class agent, a member of the Alumni Board of Directors, a
member of the Achievement Council during the development campaign that ended
in 1981, and a member of the new Planning and Development Council.

Schewel has long been an active member of the Central Virginia Alumni Chapter.
He and his wife, Helene, recently established an endowed scholarship, which honors
the memory of his parents, Rae and Ben Schewel, and also provides financial assistance
to qualified students who would not otherwise be able to attend the University.

Turrell was president of the Alumni Association in 1971 and a member of the
Board of Directors for four years. He has served as a class agent and president of
the New York City Alumni Chapter. He has been a generous contributor to an en-
dowed scholarship fund in memory of his brother, the late R. Clark Turrell, ’40.

defined the term ‘gentleman.’ Dean
Gilliam gave tangible meaning to that
term to everyone who met him.’’

The weekend included a somber,
historic moment with the unveiling of a
Lee Chapel plaque honoring the late
James H. Monroe, ’66, killed in action in
Vietnam and posthumously awarded the
Congressional Medal of Honor.

The Lee Chapel ceremony served not
only to honor Monroe ‘but also to recall
the sacrifices of all 18 Washington and
Lee alumni who died in Vietnam and the
many others who served there. So poig-
nant were those memories that

one such veteran responded with a letter
about his feelings (see inside back cover).
In his remarks at the ceremony,
Washington and Lee President John D.
Wilson called it a ‘‘unique moment in the
life of the University since never before
has the University had the privilege of
providing permanent recognition to a son
who has distinguished himself by earning
the nation’s highest military citation. . .”’
Wilson noted that it was the first plaque
honoring an alumnus to be placed on the
Lee Chapel walls in more than 70 years.
Retired Army Lt. Gen. John Norton,
who had been Monroe’s commanding of-

W&L 23

 

 

Richard A. Olson, ’66, unveils the plaque that
honors the memory of his classmate, James H.
Monroe. (See inside back cover.)

at nS

Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of the law school.

ficer in Vietnam, read the Medal of
Honor citation, which explained how
Monroe, a private first-class medic, was
ministering to a wounded radio man in a
foxhole when a live grenade landed near-
by. Monroe shouted warnings and lunged
forward to smother the grenade with his
body.

The citation continued: ‘‘Through his
valorous actions, performed in a flash of
inspired selflessness, PFC Monroe saved
the lives of many of his comrades and
prevented the probable injury of many
others. His gallantry and intrepidity are
in the highest tradition of the United
States Army. They reflect great credit
upon himself and the armed forces of his
country.”’

24 W&L

 

 

  

 

3 S sf “

Annual fund awards went to Class Agents (from left) Reginald Pettus, ’48L, (accepting for
Carter Allen), the Malone Trophy (largest amount by law class graduated in last 50 years);
George Harrison, ’36, the Richmond Trophy (undergraduate class from last 50 years with highest
participation) and the John Newton Thomas Trophy (reunion class with largest increase of dollar
total over previous year); George Griffin, ’78, Bierer Trophy (undergraduate class from last 10
years with highest participation); and Ross Hersey, ’40, Washington Trophy (undergraduate class

  

New Law Council officers Jeffrey L. Willis, ’75L, president (center),
and Mark B. Davis Jr., ’56, ’58L, vice president (right), talk with

in last 50 years with highest dollar total).

 

Richard A. Olson, ’66, Monroe’s
hometown friend and classmate, unveiled
the plaque, which had been recommended
by the Alumni Association Board of
Directors. One director in particular, W.
Nat Baker, ’67, of San Francisco,
spearheaded the drive.

In attendance at the ceremony were
Monroe’s mother, Mrs. Edward W.
Monroe of Mountain Home, Ark., and
his brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and
Mrs. Robert E. Monroe of Wheaton, III.

In action of the Alumni Association,
Stanley A. (Sandy) Walton, ’62, ’65L, of
Chicago takes over as president of the
Alumni Association from William N.
Clements, ’50, of Baltimore.

 

ey Se

New Alumni Association President Sandy Walton, ’62, ’65L (right),
takes the gavel from Bill Clements, ’50, the outgoing president.

Elected to four-year terms as directors
of the Association were James Dawson,
68, ’71L, of Princeton, N.J.; John
Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, of San Diego;
Robert D. LaRue, ’72, of Houston;
James A. Meriwether, ’70, of Alexandria,
Va.; and Richard R. Warren, ’57, of
Scarsdale, N.Y.

The Law School Association elected
Jeffrey L. Willis, ’75L, of Phoenix as its
new president. He succeeds Justice Alex-
ander M. Harman, ’44L. Mark B. Davis
Jr., °56, ’58L, of Louisville, Ky., is the
new vice president. New members of the
Law School Council are Aldo A.
Modena, ’54L, James A. Philpott Jr.,
°72L, and Justice Roscoe B. Stephenson
Jr., °47L.

The W&L Gazette

 

Commerce School Dean, Treasurer Named

 

Peppers named dean
of Commerce School

Larry C. Peppers, chairman of the
department of economics and finance in
the College of Business Administration at
Creighton University, has been named
dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

Peppers succeeds Edward C. Atwood
Jr., who is retiring as dean at the end of
the academic year.

‘*Dr. Peppers’ teaching experience and
background in business make him an ex-
cellent choice for the deanship of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics,’’ Washington and Lee President
John D. Wilson said in announcing the
appointment. ‘‘We look forward to his
joining the faculty on July 1.”

Peppers’ academic interests include
government regulation of business,
managerial economics and principles,
transportation economics, and business
conditions analysis.

He received his bachelor’s degree in
economics and mathematics in 1966 from
Grinnell College. He received his Ph.D.
in economics from Vanderbilt University
in 1970. He taught briefly at Knox Col-
lege in Illinois and Eastern Michigan
University before joining the Union
Pacific Railroad in 1973 as manager of
economic forecasting.

In 1976, Peppers joined the faculty at
Creighton in Omaha, Neb. He assumed
the chairmanship of his department in
1981. He was named Teacher of the Year
at the Creighton College of Business in
1978.

He is the co-author of the 1982
volume Business Fluctuations: Forecasting
Techniques and Applications. In addi-
tion, a new volume that he co-authored,
Managerial Economics: Theory and Ap-
plications for Decision Making, will be
published later this year. He has also
published articles in many different
periodicals.

Peppers has served as a consultant for
Northwestern Bell, Union Pacific

 

Peppers

Railroad, American Telephone and
Telegraph, Continental Care Centers, the
Institute of Management Accounting, and
the Pullman Trailmobile Corporation. He
has been an invited lecturer at national
meetings of both the American Trucking
Association and the American Society of
Traffic and Transportation.

Peppers and his wife, Fran (who
teaches business at the College of St.
Mary in Omaha), are the parents of two
children.

Broomall new treasurer

Lawrence W. Broomall Jr., vice presi-
dent for business affairs at the College of
William and Mary, has been named
treasurer at Washington and Lee.

Broomall succeeds E. Stewart Epley,
49, who will retire from the University
this summer.

A graduate of Glassboro State College
in New Jersey and the Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State Universi-
ty, Broomall has been William and
Mary’s vice president for business affairs
since 1982. In that capacity he was
responsible for providing leadership and
direction for the traditional business
functions of the college, including per-

 

Broomall

sonnel, accounting, buildings and
grounds, capital outlay, campus police,
and auxiliary enterprises.

‘‘In Lawrence Broomall we have
someone who is technically very compe-
tent and has the kind of character that
we admire. His talents and experience
will bring added integrity to our institu-
tion,’’ said Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson.

Broomall is a member of the National
Association of College and University
Business Officers and served on the per-
sonnel committee of that organization.
He has been on the editorial advisory
board of the Journal of Education
Finance.

Prior to going to William and Mary,
he held several positions at Virginia Tech,
including serving for two years as
associate vice president for finance and
director of financial planning and
analysis.

Broomall and his wife, Donna, have
two sons.

Dialers ring up
record numbers

For 12 nights in March and April,
more than 100 Washington and Lee

W&L 25

 

students conducted the most successful
phone-a-thon in the University’s history.

Operating from a bank of phones in
the Alumni House and in Lewis Hall, the
callers reached more than 1,800
Washington and Lee alumni and received
specific pledges to the 1985-86 Annual
Fund from 896 alumni. Another 342 of
those reached said they would give to the
Annual Fund but did not indicate a
specific dollar amount.

Pledges during the phone-a-thon total-
ed $125,699, and the average pledge was
$140.

This compares with last year’s totals
of $111,670 from 862 pledges and an
average pledge of $130.

Under the leadership of Cooper
Crawford, ’87, members of Kathekon,
the student-alumni association, helped
coordinate this year’s phone-a-thon.

Meanwhile, the 1985-86 Annual Fund
continued on a record-setting pace.

As of April 24, the University had
received $1,275,000 from 5,226 givers to
the Fund, which represents increases of
$210,000 and 730 donors over the same
time a year ago.

The Annual Fund, which accounts for
approximately 10 percent of the Universi-
ty’s Operating budget each year, is
chaired this year by James W. Jennings
Jr., ’65, ’72L, of Roanoke.

University cancels
spring term abroad programs

All of Washington and Lee’s spring
term courses in Europe were cancelled in
mid-April because of the fear of increas-
ed danger to Americans traveling in
Europe.

Approximately 60 students had been
enrolled in programs scheduled for Ger-
many, Spain, England, France, Greece,
and Italy. Their programs were to have
begun on April 21, a week after the
United States warplanes bombed Libya.

The only exception to the cancella-
tions was a program held in Taiwan,
which went ahead as scheduled.

According to John W. Elrod, dean of
the College, the decision to cancel the
programs was made ‘‘only after extensive
discussion with the directors of the pro-
grams and the departments involved.’’

University officials consulted with of-
ficials of the state department and other
governmental agencies before arriving at
the decision.

‘‘We simply felt that the risks involv-
ed were unacceptable,’’ Elrod said.

26 W&L

Clark, David Lawrence, and Jimmy Sloan.

The decision created considerable
logistical problems since students who
were already away from the campus for
the semester break had to be contacted
and absorbed into on-campus courses for
the spring term.

Meantime, the University’s Glee Club
and Chorus and the Brass and Percussion
Ensemble both were in the midst of
European tours when the Libyan bomb-
ing raids occurred.

The Glee Club and Chorus completed
its tour of Germany and the Brass and
Percussion Ensemble finished its tour of
England. The organizations returned to
Lexington on April 21 for the first day
of spring term classes.

W&L receives $334,000
from Frank H. Brady estate

Washington and Lee has received a
gift of $334,000 from the estate of Frank
H. Brady, ’32, who died in June 1983 in
Brick Town, N.J.

In accordance with Brady’s wishes,
his gift will be used to create an endow-
ment fund that will be used ‘‘to support
and enrich the teaching of biology and
chemistry,’’ especially through the pur-
chase of necessary laboratory equipment.

‘‘By remembering his alma mater in
this way, Mr. Brady has provided in-
valuable support to the natural sciences
program at a time when such support is
particularly welcome,’’ said Washington
and Lee President John D. Wilson.

According to Farris P. Hotchkiss,
director of university relations and
development, approximately 10 percent of

ro . 7
4 . “e b
ae f tS
S b es
~ re

Manning the phones during the phone-a-thon were (from left) David Dunn, Tom Peters, Sheldon

 

the Brady gift came through Washington
and Lee’s pooled income fund, a method
by which donors can continue to receive
income after making a capital gift to the
University.

A native of Brooklyn, N.Y., Brady
received the bachelor of science degree
from Washington and Lee.

In 1941 he began a career as a
research engineer for Raritan Copper
Works, a division of Anaconda Corp., in
Perth Amboy, N.J. Prior to his retire-
ment in 1972, he had been in charge of
metallurgical processes and quality con-
trol for copper, silver, gold, platinum,
and palladium products in the Interna-
tional Smelting and Refining division of
Raritan. He was a member of the In-
stitute of Metals, the American Institute
of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers,
and the American Society of Metals.

Library appointment

Erin E. Foley has been named special
collections librarian and assistant pro-
fessor at the University Library.

She assumed her duties in April, suc-
ceeding Richard Oram who resigned to
accept a position at the University of
Toledo.

Foley received her bachelor’s degree
in archaeology from Yale University and
her master’s degree from the School of
Library and Information Studies at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison, where
she specialized in archives and computer
applications in archives and libraries.

She was most recently archives pro-
fessor and visiting lecturer at the Univer-
sity of Illinois at Chicago.

 

 

Donn Falk, a Washington and Lee
senior politics major, spent the summer
of 1985 in Washington as an intern in the
office of U.S. Rep. James T. Kolbe.

Kolbe, an Arizona Republican, is a
member of the Military Caucus Reform
and was involved in drafting legislation
on defense procurement. Consequently,
the bulk of Falk’s internship involved
research into American defense spending.

During the course of that research,
Falk was struck by the absence of any ef-
fective dialogue between the various par-
ties that were interested in the subject—
a subject he came to consider one of the
country’s most important issues.

‘“There did not seem to be a forum for
a number of the competing viewpoints on
these issues to confront each other on the
same floor,’’ explained Falk.

So Falk took it upon himself to pro-
vide such a forum. He designed, plann-
ed, and produced a one-day symposium
on the subject of defense procurement.

Held in Lee Chapel on a Friday in
April, the symposium featured seven
panelists who spent four hours debating
such complex, often emotional issues as
cost-plus billing by defense contractors
and Congressional overregulation of
weapon programs.

The panel assembled by Falk con-
sisted of:

e Rep. Kolbe, who served as the
moderator;

e Rep. Denny Smith (R-Ore.), co-
chairman of the Military Reform Caucus;

e Under Secretary of the Army James
Ambrose, a Reagan appointee and the
second-ranking civilian in the U.S. Army;

e Wolfgang Reuter, executive vice
president of Designers and Planners, Inc.,
a naval architecture and marine engineer-
ing firm;

e Pierre Sprey, a military and en-
vironmental consultant who is the
designer of such weapons systems as the
F-16 fighter aircraft and the A-10 close
support aircraft;

e Retired U.S. Navy Capt. Robert
Peniston, curator of Lee Chapel and
former commanding officer of the bat-
tleship U.S.S. New Jersey;

e Charles Thompson, senior in-
vestigative producer for ABC News’
20/20 and the producer of programs
about cost overruns at General Dynamics,
Spare parts controversies at Pratt and
Whitney, and other subjects related to
procurement.

Questions
Oi
Defense

by Timothy G, McMahon, ’87

 

‘‘We’re here, I think,
because we all recognize the
great importance of a national
defense and a strong national
defense. We understand that
the public confidence is erod-
ed when they continue to read
about $700 wrenches and $600
toilet seats. ”’

—U.S. Rep. James T. Kolbe

 

All the panelists donated their time to
the project, which Falk produced under
the auspices of Contact ’86, the Univer-
sity’s speaker symposium sponsored by
the Interfraternity Council and the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the student body.

‘‘One thing that this experiment has
proven is the vast opportunities and
resources that are waiting to be utilized
by the students on the campus,”’ said
Falk. ‘‘It is remarkable what sort of net-
work is available with alumni and facul-
ty connections. The resources are here,
and W&L’s proximity to Washington
enhances those opportunities.’’

While, on one level, the symposium
was a tribute to a single student’s in-
itiative, the sessions involved some in-
tense, involved, and important discus-
sions about America’s ability to defend
itself. And although they may have
disagreed on specifics, all the panelists
talked of severe deficiencies in the military
establishment.

When it came to the question of who
was to blame, however, the panelists
agreed on three possible culprits—
Congress, the military, and defense
contractors.

Sprey, for one, was particularly vehe-
ment in his attacks on defense contrac-
tors’ practices of ‘‘cost-plus’’ billing in
which contractors bill for the costs incur-
red in the development and production of
the product, rather than billing for the
product itself.

‘*The effect of that on American in-
dustry, on the ingenuity of our designers
and engineers, on the honesty of the
managers is incalculable,’’ said Sprey.
‘In one way or another almost every in-
dustrialist has to face the same problems
because of cost plus...We have imposed
on them a system that is inherently
corrupting.

‘Stop and think about it. The defense
department runs the world’s second
largest socialist economy, and we are do-
ing to both our industry and our people
inside the military exactly what the Rus-
sian Communist Party does to the Rus-
sian people and to the Russian
bureaucracy.’’

All the panelists agreed that
Overspending in weapons leads to the pur-
chase of what Sprey called ‘‘complicated,
obsolete, ineffective technology.”’

The DIVAD, or ‘‘Sgt. York gun,’’
was a specific case cited by Smith, a
Republican Congressman who called the
system ‘‘a $7 million [per-unit] lemon.’’
Plagued by technical problems, DIVAD
was scrapped after $1.6 billion had been
spent on research, said Smith who also
claimed that the same weapon could have
been created for a fraction of the cost
merely by strapping a gun on the back of
a pickup truck.

Thompson of ABC represented the
media viewpoint and observed that the
public is intensely interested in the issue:
‘*The public is getting wise to the defense
procurement mess. They can’t understand
why it hasn’t been cleaned up. And I
think they are getting impatient.’’

Kolbe emphasized that the bottom
line is not whether ‘‘we’re lining the
pockets of a few contractors . . . but the
very survival of our country.’’

One of the potential remedies was
presented by Smith, who _ observed:
‘‘Without people who really can do a
good job of watching over what we’re do-
ing as a nation in the procurement pro-
cess, and being sure that we are practical
in what we are trying to buy, we are not
going to get for the defense dollar what
we should have for our fighting people
to work with.’’

 

W&L

27

 

 

Admissions enjoys
another strong year

Once again this year, the University
admissions’ effort has been extremely
successful by both quantitative and
qualitative standards.

Coming on the heels of last year’s
record-setting results, the Class of 1990
has equally impressive statistics.

Of the 2,416 applicants for admission,
the University accepted 889 students. As
of May 5, 423 students—302 men and
121 women—had confirmed.

The combined College Board (SAT)
score increased 13 points to 1,218 (587
verbal, 631 math), and the average class
rank is in the 82nd percentile.

‘‘As always, those scores tell only part
of the story,’’ said William M. Hartog,
director of admissions. ‘‘What the scores
fail to convey are those many other
qualities that we consider so important in
our students—qualities of leadership and
achievement in extracurricular activities.’’

In that regard, Hartog noted that 45
students held major offices—either presi-
dent or vice president—in their student
government; 21 were presidents of Na-
tional Honor Society or Key Club
chapters; 50 were presidents of various
other clubs; 103 were captains of varsity
athletic teams; 43 were editors of student
newspapers and literary magazines; and
27 attended either boys’ or girls’ state.

The Class of 1990 will include 22
students who were either valedictorian or
salutatorian of their high school class.
There will be 40 National Merit Scholars

 

ee a : 3 r had _ *
 — = —— :
Sad F 3

and semifinalists.

Of the 423 who have confirmed, 64
are children of alumni (46 men, 18
women).

The geographic spread is similar to
years past with 34 different states, the
District of Columbia, and four foreign
countries represented, led by Virginia
with 62. Next is Maryland with 39
followed by Texas with 31 and Florida
with 26.

Another British victory
for W&L’s debaters

A team of Washington and Lee
debaters continued the University’s win-
ning tradition in the British Isles during a
10-day, three-debate tour of Great
Britain.

Chris Lion, ’86, of O’Fallon, IIl., and
Rick Graves, ’87, of Gulfport, Miss.,
who had upset a British debate team last
year on the issue of American English be-
ing better than the British version, actual-
ly split decisions this time around.

In their first debate, the W&L duo
took an affirmative stance on the topic
‘*Resolved: That American missiles help
maintain British peace.’’ The University
of London audience sided with the W&L
debaters who argued that American
missiles plus British missiles were a better
deterrent than British missiles alone.

In their second debate, the W&L team
took the negative position on the topic
‘America is a cultural cul-de-sac.’’ Try
as they might, Lion and Graves could not

)

:
———

\
ss ‘ .
~ re .
= |

Principals in the annual President’s Day ROTC awards assembly this year were (from left) W&L
President John D. Wilson, Peter J. Ierardi (George C. Marshall ROTC Award), Arthur A. Kan-
darian (Outstanding Cadet Award), Kenneth L. Lindeman (Major Ronald O. Scharnberg
Memorial Award), and Col. Luke Ferguson, professor of military science.

28 W&L

   

convince the audience that American
culture was of value and lost that debate
to the Brits.

According to W&L debate team coach
Halford Ryan, who accompanied the two
debaters, the best debate of the tour
came at the University of Manchester.
There, the W&L team split sides—Lion
joined a Labor Party member of Parlia-
ment, and Graves was paired with a
member of the Manchester Libertarian
Society. The topic was ‘‘Resolved: The
House of Lords is an affront to
democracy.’’

Lion and his partner took the affir-
mative, arguing that the House of Lords
is a conservative check on the House of
Commons and that membership is based
on heredity. Graves supported his partner
by arguing that the Lords serve as a
useful check on the excesses of the House
of Commons.

‘*That debate gave our students a
unique view of British politics,’’ said
Ryan, who noted that the Manchester au-
dience strongly supported Lion and his
partner in their position against the
House of Lords.

Awards, honors

e Three Washington and Lee seniors
have been awarded Fulbright grants for a
year Of postgraduate study abroad.

The recipients are Lawrence S. Anker
of East Windsor, N.J.; D. Shawn Harvey
of Georgetown, S.C.; and Robert E.
Treat of Manchester Center, Vt.

A triple major in chemistry,
mathematics, and physics, Anker will
spend a year studying analytical
chemistry at the Universitat Wurzburg.

Harvey, a chemistry major, will spend
his year of study at the Institute for
Neurobiology at Gulach in West
Germany.

Treat will take courses in biology and
physics at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe
University in Frankfurt and will also be
involved in cancer research at the Paul
Erlich Institute, also in Frankfurt.

¢ Michael J. Longshore, ’88, of
Atlanta, has been selected as the first stu-
dent to participate in a new exchange
program between Washington and Lee
and University College, Oxford.
Longshore will study medieval literature
during his year in residence at Oxford.

e¢ William T. Hartley, ’88, of Mar-
tinsburg, W.Va., has been awarded the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award in
recognition of superlative scholastic
achievement among undergraduates dur-
ing their first two years at W&L.

Alumni News

Busy Spring for Chapters, AAP Committees

u
Ss Comfort’s barnstorming tour
of Texas and points South (of Lexington,
that is) was only part of an active winter
and early spring for the University’s
alumni chapters.

From Seattle to Maryland’s Eastern
Shore, there have been dinner meetings
with President John D. Wilson, lacrosse
tailgate parties, and receptions for pro-
spective students during the past several
months.

W&L Associate Alumni Director Bud-
dy Atkins, ’68, attended meetings of the
El Paso and Mid-South chapters in
mid-February.

The Puget Sound Chapter held its
second annual chapter dinner in late
February in Seattle while members of the
Pittsburgh chapter had a luncheon with
W&L students who were back in the area
during the Washington holiday.

The Philadelphia and Baltimore
chapters heard from John W. Elrod,
dean of the College, during meetings in
February and March, respectively. Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion and
director of the University’s program in
applied ethics, spoke to the Jacksonville
chapter in March.

President Wilson made a Florida
swing in March, speaking to the Gulf
Stream, Fort Lauderdale, and Palm
Beach chapters.

The Blue Ridge chapter held a pre-
game tailgate in Charlottesville and then
watched the Generals’ lacrosse team play
Virginia to a standstill during the first
three quarters (W&L trailed 8-6 going in-
to the final quarter) before finally losing
16-6.

In April the Indianapolis chapter held
a dinner meeting that featured remarks
by W&L junior Steve Pockrass, an In-
dianapolis native.

The Alumni Admissions Program con-
tinues to play a critical role in the
University’s efforts to attract the very
best and brightest new students.

One major part of the AAP effort
comes each year in April just after the
admissions notices are mailed.

 

 

Washburn receives
Lynchburg citation

William C. Washburn, former
alumni secretary and currently
associate director of development at
Washington and Lee, was the 1986
recipient of the Lynchburg Citation,
awarded annually by the Lynchburg
Chapter. Washburn received the
award at the chapter’s annual banquet
in April. The citation, which was
presented to Washburn by Tom Pet-
tyiohnn, 68. 72L., referred to ‘‘the
quality and endurance of his interest
in the Washington and Lee ideal, his
vigor and vivacity in dealing with
friends and alumni of the University,
and his singular effectiveness in
expanding alumni chapters and
reunion programs.’’

W&L

 

FORT WORTH-—lIn attendance when Southern Comfort performed for the Fort Worth Chapter
were, from left, Trustee Frank Young, ’66; Rice Tilley, ’58; and Frank Bailey, ’66.

29

 

 

NEW ORLEANS—Now in charge of the New Orleans Chapter are, from left, Jeff Christovich,

me iz
Se an

wre wr.
+

—

> +

78, vice president; Jim Brooks, ’77, AAP chairman; Julian Good, ’78, president; and Cove

Geary, ’80, secretary-treasurer.

 

HOUSTON—New Houston Chapter President
Bill Wagner, ’70, and John Anderson, ’68,
new chapter treasurer

AAP committees hold receptions for
students who have been admitted to the
University, providing the students and
their parents with an opportunity to
discuss W&L with alumni from their
area.

This year 17 such receptions were held
in those areas from which 10 or more
students had been offered admission.
Those were Richmond, Nashville, Atlan-
ta, Louisville, Philadelphia, Columbia,
S.C., Tidewater, Northern New Jersey
(Glen Ridge), Dallas, St. Louis, Houston,
Memphis, Baltimore, Roanoke, Tampa,
Charlotte, and Washington, D.C.

‘‘About 75 percent of those who were
offered admission attended these recep-
tions,’’ said James B. Farrar, director of
the AAP program. ‘‘Receptions and the
individual contact in smaller AAP areas
is sO vitally important when we realize
that 75 to 80 percent of all accepted
students come from areas with AAP pro-
grams.”’

30 —~W&L

 

 

BIRMINGHAM—New Birmingham Chapter
President Hatton Smith, ’73, (right) with
Ralph Smith, ’73

 

DALLAS—Enjoying the Southern Comfort performance in Dallas were (from left) David
Carothers, ’61; Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of university relations and development; Linda
Carothers; Gerrald Giblin, ’81; and Andy Carothers, ’65.

New Chapter Officers

Several chapters have elected new of-
ficers for 1986. These include:

Birmingham: Hatton C. V. Smith,
°73, president.

Houston: Willard B. Wagner III, ’70,
president; J. Stanley Taylor, ’73, vice
president; Harry J. Phillips Jr., ’72,
secretary; John S. Anderson, ’68,
treasurer.

New Orleans: Julian H. Good Jr.,
°78, president; Jeffrey Christovich, ’78,
vice president; Covert J. Geary, ’80,
secretary-treasurer.

Blue Ridge: Richard H. Milnor, 70,
*74L, president; George B. Craddock J1;.
64, vice president; William R. Wilkerson
II, ’69, secretary-treasurer.

Delmarva: Robert B. Taylor, ’70L,
president; John H. Anthony, ’68,
secretary; David R. Hackett, ’69L,
treasurer.

Palmetto: J. Preston Covington III,
°82, president.

Lynchburg: James E. (Buddy)
McCausland, °43, president; Stuart
Fauber, ’70, vice president; Ted Crad-
dock, ’68, treasurer.

New Alumni Directory

The new Alumni Directory is schedul-
ed for release by June 1. Anyone who
ordered a copy and has not received it by
June 30 should contact the publisher
directly at the following address:
Customer Service Representative; Harris
Publishing Company, Inc.; 3 Barker
Avenue; White Plains, N.Y. 10601.

Sale of the directory is the exclusive
province of the publisher. According to
Harris Publishing Company, 4,000 alum-
ni have made pre-publication purchase of
the new edition. Any overrun of the com-
pany’s printing will be available until the
supply is exhausted.

 

 

EL PASO—In attendance at the El Paso Chapter’s meeting were
(from left) John March, ’63; Nick Nichols, ’40; Peter Carter, ’53;
Dick Ranc, 61; Jim Hind, ’80; and Skip Forsyth, ’78.

PALM BEACH—Attending the Palm Beach meeting at which W&L
President John D. Wilson spoke were (from left) Nick Smith, ’63; Jan
Smith; and Ken Beall, ’61, ’63L.

it

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—From left, Alton Sartor, ’38, Mrs.
Lane Sartor, and Lane Sartor, ’42, converse with Dick Sessoms, direc-
tor of alumni programs at W&L, during the Southern Comfort per-
formance at the chapter’s meeting in Shreveport.

 

GULF STREAM—Members of the Gulf Stream Chapter who attended
the dinner meeting in Miami included (from left) Bill Walker, ’68,
*71L; Mike Spector, ’68; and Martin Spector, ’25.

 

MID-SOUTH—The Mid-South Chapter held a mid-February meeting
attended by several W&L students. From left, Jim Kerr, ’86; Robin
Smithwick, ’84; Lee Hollis, ’86; and Murry McClintock, ’80.

DELMA RVA—Joining the Delmarva Chapter at a meeting on the
Eastern Shore were (from left) Alex Rasin, ’65; Trustee Bo DuBose,
62; Barry Waterman, ’84; Diana Waterman; Richard Schoenberg,
85; and Dede Schoenberg.

W&L 31

Class Notes

 

 

 

ARM CHAIR

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Black lacquer with cherry arms
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

32

W&L

1926

Charles W. Lowry has been appointed to the North
Carolina Commission on the U.S. Constitution
Bicentennial by North Carolina Gov. James

Martin.
1929

William G. Gault is retired after 52 years of ac-
tive law practice in Pittsburgh, Pa.

1930

Dr. John P. Lynch is writing a history of the
McGuire Clinic in Richmond. The clinic was
founded in 1923, and Lynch was associated with
it for 47 years. He retired from medical practice
in 1984.

Dr. Stanley F. Hampton, retired from the prac-
tice of medicine for three years, is now associate
professor of clinical medicine emeritus at
Washington University in St. Louis, Mo. He
spends time on his farm and enjoys his herefords.

1935

George E. Crisp retired from Fred J. Crisp Inc.
in June 1985. He is now president of the Akron
Divison of Associated Contractors of America.

N. Joe Rahall retired from his position as
organizer, president, and chief of operations for
Rahall Communications Corp., which operates
radio and television stations in Florida, Penn-
sylvania, Indiana, and West Virginia. He lives in

Beckley, W.Va.
1936

Robert F. Corrigan retired from the U.S. Foreign
Service in 1975 and is the Washington, D.C.,
representative of United Brands Co. He lives in
Chevy Chase, Md. His last assignment abroad was
Ambassador to Rwanda in central Africa.

1937

James S. Bruce has spent his retirement develop-
ing a computer simulation for new product
development that is currently being used in a
course at the Center for Creative Leadership in
Greensboro, N.C. He lives in Rochester, N.Y.

Donald C. Redfield Jr. has retired from the Con-
necticut National Bank and now does consulting
for the Bank of New Haven. Redfield lives in

Hamden, Conn.
1938

John E. Neill is running humanities programs at
Weymouth, the local ‘‘cultural center’’ in Southern
Pines, N.C., where he also finds time for golf and

| 1939

Walter C. (Cecil) Hardy Jr. serves on the boards
of the West Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges and the Parkersburg Community College-
Foundation. He is a member of the Greater
Parkersburg Area Chamber of Commerce and is
a trustee of the Parkersburg Presbytery. Hardy
lives in Vienna, W.Va.

Robert W. Hilton Jr. opened a new law office in
Cincinnati in January 1986. Hilton is in his 45th
year of law practice.

 

1940

Dr. Frank S. Beazlie has retired from his urology
practice after 34 years. During his practice he
founded Hampton Roads Urology Clinic Inc. and
served as its president. He continues to live in
Newport News, Va.

194]

Franklin W. Hynson and his wife, Deidre, are en-
joying retirement in Osprey, Fla., where he plays
golf and occasionally sees fellow W&L alumni Ed
Blair and Billy Ayers, both ’40.

William L. Shannon reports that his family
business, Shannon Funeral Home, has just com-
pleted 120 years of operation and added a fifth
generation when Shannon’s son, John, joined the
business. Shannon lives in Shelbyville, Ky.

John W. Weathers Jr. has sold his food brokerage
business and is enjoying retirement in Matthews,

N.C.
1942

F. Gregg Burger retired from the L. A. Dreyfus
Co. after 38 years as an executive with the firm.
Burger lives in Plainfield, N.J.

Lawrence J. Fisher Jr. of Pawley’s Island, S.C.,
continues as vice president and general manager
of the textile division of Wellman Inc.

Dougald M. Monroe retired from the academic
deanship of Atlanta Junior College in June 1984
and is living in Lancaster, Ky., where he stays ac-
tive with part-time teaching and church and com-
munity activities.

Dr. Robert L. Pinck was recently honored when
a portion of Long Island College Hospital’s Fuller
Pavilion was named the Robert Lloyd Pinck,
M.D., Diagnostic Radiology Suite. Pinck has
retired after 30 years as director of the radiology
department at the Long Island College Hospital.

1943

Donald E. Garretson is working for community
and national non-profit organizations under the
auspices and with the support of the 3M Company
as a retired consultant. Garretson resides in St.
Paul, Minn.

James S. Parsons has retired after 35 years as a

 

 

research chemist in New Jersey industry and is liv-
ing at Rapps Mill in Rockbridge County.

Philip A. Sellers has been named to the board of
overseers at Sweet Briar College. Sellers’ wife,
Caroline, and their two daughters are Sweet Briar
graduates. Sellers is president of Philip A. Sellers
& Co., investment bankers, and is a member of
the Alabama Commission on Higher Education.
The family lives in Montgomery, Ala.

1944
Dr. Lloyd H. Smith Jr. has received the John
Phillips Memorial Award ‘‘for distinguished con-
tributions in internal medicine’? from the
American College of Physicians. Smith is chair-
man of the Department of Medicine at the Univer-
sity of California at San Francisco. He helped
pioneer the new field of molecular biology in his
study of genetic metabolic errors and explored the
metabolism of purine and pyrimidine. In 1985, he
was awarded the George M. Kober Medal by the

Association of American Physicians in recognition
of his contributions to medical education.

1946

Barton P. Quaintance retired from the DuPont
Company in August 1985 after 30 years of service,
primarily in employee and labor relations. He con-
tinues to live in Wilmington, Del.

1949

Henry H. Hicks, former press secretary to U.S.
Senator Paula Hawkins of Florida, has become
deputy staff director of the International Narcotics
Control Commission. Hicks lives in Washington,
D.C.

Thomas S. Hook Jr., who retired from the Federal
Aviation Administration in January 1985, is now
a general aviation consultant and operates out of
Baltimore, where he also finds time for tennis and
to play trombone with the Uptown String Band.

Burr W. Miller of St. Louis, Mo., retired from
the Proctor & Gamble Distributing Co. in March
1986. He had joined the company immediately
after his W&L graduation in 1949.

Dr. Everette L. Taylor Jr. retired from medical
practice in April 1985 and is living in Sparta, N.C.

1950

William L. Brown recently retired from RCA after
35 years. He lives in Southbury, Conn.

Raymond D. Coates has announced that his son,
Thomas, ’81, has joined the family’s Maryland law
firm of Coates, Coates & Coates, PA, with offices
in Ocean City, Berlin, and Snow Hill. Thomas
passed the Maryland State Bar and became the
third of Coates’ sons in the firm. The other two,
both W&L alumni, are Raymond Jr., ’71, and B.
Randall, ’72.

Barton P. Quaintance (See 1946.)

193.4

Waddy G. Currin III has announced his indepen-
dent candidacy for U.S. Congress in Tennessee’s
3rd District, the seat once held by Labor Secretary
William Brock, ’53. Currin lives in Red Bank,
Tenn.

Wilson H. Lear is the South Carolina area
manager for the U. S. Plywood Corp. Lear lives
in Columbia, S.C., where he is active in church
counseling.

Secretary of the Army John O. Marsh Jr. has been
selected by the Freedoms Foundation at Valley
Forge to receive its highest award, the George
Washington Honor Medal. He is being recogniz-
ed for excellence in the category of public address
for a speech entitled ‘‘The World of James
Madison,’’ which he presented at the James
Madison University Founders Day in March 1985.

A. Stevens Miles was elected chairman of the
board of First Kentucky National Corporation,
Kentucky’s largest bank holding company. Miles
continues as chief executive officer for First Ken-
tucky. He resides in Louisville.

Robert H. Salisbury served as a visiting scholar
at the American Bar Foundation in 1985. He lives
in University City, Mo.

1952

Julian B. Mohr has expanded his chemical
manufacturing facilities, Momar Inc., to include
a plant in Los Angeles and plant and offices in
Sydney, Australia. Mohr lives in Atlanta.

1953

Raymond D. Coates (See 1950.)
W&L 33

 

James M. Gabler’s recent book Wine Into Words
has received enthusiastic reviews and is selling well,
especially in the California wine country. Gabler
lives in Baltimore and intends to tour vineyards
in Spain and Portugal this summer.

Isham M. Sheffield is chairman of the board of
American Wellness Systems Inc. in Atlanta.

1954

Robert E. Bradford is senior vice president of
Safeway Stores Inc. in Oakland, Calif. Bradford
serves on the boards of Keep America Beautiful,
Second Harvest, and the San Francisco Arts Com-
mission. He is on the executive committee of the
Public Affairs Council. He lives in Danville, Calif.

Warren T. Braham is regional president of First
American Bank of Virginia’s Loudoun region. He
lives at Round Hill, Va.

Dr. Herwig Brandstetter, head of the presidial
department of the Styrian Chamber of Commerce
in Graz, Austria, recently became vice president
of the museum of the city of Graz.

Bertram S. Griffith Jr. is branch sales manager
for Hovinga Business Systems representing Canon
office automation products. He lives in Grand

Blanc, Mich.
1955

James M. Gabler (See 1953.)

Walter J. McGraw is director and vice president
of Williams, Mullin and Christian, P.C., a Rich-
mond, Va., law firm. A former rector of the James
Madison University board of visitors, McGraw’s
service to the university was recognized with the
naming of a JMU dormitory McGraw-Long Hall.

1957

Dr. Trafford Hill Jr. practices psychiatry in
Virginia Beach with the Psychiatric Associates of
Tidewater. Hill and his wife, Mary, have three
children—Trafford III, 19; Noah, 17; and Susan-
nah, 10.

William J. Russell recently started McBryan,
Malone, and Russell, an investment advisory firm.
Russell lives in Malvern, Pa.

1958

Vernon W. Holleman Jr. was honored recently as
the 39th recipient of the Bernard R. Wilner Award.
This recognition is bestowed by the District of Col-
umbia Life Underwriters Association upon the in-
dividual whose ‘‘business, community and
organizational contributions are reflective of the
commitment to service and_ professionalism
manifest throughout the Institution of Life In-
surance.’

Frank A. Hoss Jr. was elected by the Virginia

General Assembly as
Judge of the 31st Judicial
Circuit, the third largest
circuit in Virginia. He
has presided in District
Court since 1978 and was
in general practice prior
to that. Hoss, his wife,

 

Shirley, and two

children, Carol and
,_ Michael, reside in
~ Manassas.

Joseph S. Lewis is president of the Southern West
Virginia chapter of Full Gospel Businessmen, In-
ternational. He, his wife, and four children live
on a farm near Fayetteville, W.Va., where they
raise paint horses.

34. W&L

William C. Miller joined Boehringer Mannheim
Corporation as vice president, general counsel, and
secretary in April 1985. His daughter, Monica, is
a first-year law student at Washington and Lee.

1959

Anthony J. Frank, general partner in charge of
operations of Branch Cabell and Co., has been
named chairman of District 10 of the National
Association of Securities Dealers. Frank lives in
Richmond.

William K. Hughes was recently named general
manager of business planning for U. S. Steel Corp.
He lives in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Theodore R. McKeldin Jr. continues to practice
law in Baltimore, Md., with the firm of Weinberg
and Green.

Richard A. Powell is living in northern Japan with
his wife, Carol, their son, David, and a cat nam-
ed Moose. Powell teaches school on a U.S. Air
Force base.

Laurence M. Smail has been named to Who’s Who
in American Law. He is counsel for the Aviation
Applied Technology Directorate, U.S. Army Avia-
tion Research and Technology Activity at Fort

Eustis, Va.
1960

E. Peter Litton is general manager of Tri-Cities
Cellular Telephone Co. in Kingsport, Tenn. He
lives in Bristol, Tenn.

196]

Rev. J. Malcolm Brownlee has become pastor of
the Riverdale Presbyterian Church in Riverdale,
Ga. Brownlee previously worked for 11 years as
a missionary of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.)
in Indonesia where he was on the faculty of two
theological seminaries and wrote five books on

Christian ethics in the Indonesian language.

Henry H. Harrell was named president of the
Universal Leaf Tobacco Co. of Richmond. He had
been executive vice president since 1982.

Frank A. Hoss Jr. (See 1958.)
William C. Miller (See 1958.)

Lewis P. Nelson is a senior vice president for
Sovran Bank in Richmond and has a daughter,
Eleanor, in Washington and Lee’s freshman class.

Richard S. Schulist lives in San Francisco where
he is a senior business development officer and
northern California regional manager for Liber-

ty National Bank.
1962

Carl B. Connell Jr. is self-employed as a person-
nel and labor relations consultant and is also do-
ing executive recruiting and search work. Connell
resides in San Francisco.

Hayward F. Day Jr. has opened a private law prac-
tice in Far Hills, N.J.

R. Roy Goodwin II is a vice president in the
Augusta, Ga., office of Merrill Lynch & Co. He
was a member of the Chairman’s Club in 1985.
He lives in Evans, Ga.

Wesley R. Ostergren is in his second year of law
school at Mississippi College in Jackson, Miss. He
and his wife, Margaret, have four sons: James,
12, Wesley, 10, Charles, 7, and Alexander, 2. After
his graduation, Ostergren plans to return to New
Jersey and take the bar exam there.

Laurence M. Smail (See 1959.)

1963

Warren B. Hughes Jr. is owner of Hughes
Marketing Communications in Media, Pa. The

 

_ Becker Edits
Medical Dictionary

Dr. E. Lovell Becker, ’44, has spent
the past 10 years of his life surrounded
by scores of medical specialists,
thousands of computer printouts, and
hundreds of thousands of words.

Becker was the chairman of a five-
person editorial board responsible for
compiling the Jnternational Dictionary of
Medicine and Biology. The three-volume
work, billed as the most comprehensive
medical dictionary in English to date, was
published by John Wiley & Sons just
before Becker’s death in February of this
year. (See In Memoriam.)

The project began in 1975, when
Becker and other experts in the field of
medicine examined existing medical dic-
tionaries and found that many important
terms were not included or were defined
incorrectly. He concluded that the pro-
fession needed a new, comprehensive dic-
tionary, and decided to compile one—
with the help of an editorial board and

 

oe

an international group of 81 advisory
editors, 10 co-advisory editors, and 90
contributors from all branches of
medicine.

H. E. King, professor of psychology
at Washington and Lee, was the advisory
editor in the field of psychology.

During the next 10 years, these
authorities decided which words would be
included and which omitted from the dic-
tionary, wrote the definitions, and sub-
mitted them for editing. Since many bran-
ches of medicine are overlapping, approx-
imately 70 percent of the definitions were
reviewed by the editors in other areas.

The final product numbers 3,300
pages and contains 150,000 terms.

In his preface to the dictionary,
Becker wrote, ‘‘I feel immensely
honored...to have seen the original con-
ception of this work take shape and
brought to completion in such a fittingly
handsome format. I feel certain this dic-
tionary will prove to be an essential
reference source to all those engaged in
medical and biological inquiry, and that
it will stand the test of time.’’

 

company does market research and strategy work
for such businesses as Sears and the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange.

E. Philip McCaleb, president of McCaleb & Co.
Inc. General Insurance Agency in Belle Haven,
Va., is chairman of the Virginia Migrant &
Seasonal Farmworkers Commission and on the ex-
ecutive committee of the Eastern Shore Crime
Stoppers.

Thomas P. McDavid is a senior vice president in
charge of the Metropolitan Banking Division at
the Union Trust Co. of Maryland. McDavid lives
in Phoenix, Md.

Thomas P. Rideout was elected treasurer of the
American Bankers Association for the 1985-86
year at its annual convention in New Orleans. He
lives in Savannah, Ga.

1964

Frederick J. Krall has been named vice president
of marketing-new products and marketing services
for Kraft Inc. Dairy Group. He will have overall
responsibility for new product marketing and for
marketing support functions. He lives in Stafford,
Pa., with his wife, Susan, and two daughters.

William H. Marmion Jr. is teaching and coaching
at St. Mark’s School in Dallas, Texas.

1965
T. Patton Adams IV was elected mayor of Co-
lumbia, S.C., on April 1, 1986. He received 81 per-
cent of the total vote for a landslide victory.
Adams, a former member of the Columbia City
Council, is an attorney.

Dan J. Friedman Jr. has left IBM to form his own
company, American Home Service Corp., which
specializes in building restoration and inspection.
Friedman lives in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

James M. Slay Jr. has been appointed county at-
torney for Talbot County, Md. He has served as
chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals for the
Town of St. Michaels and on the St. Michaels
Planning Commission and Historic Area Commis-
sion. He is vice president of the Eastern Memorial
Hospital Association and a past president of the
Rotary Club. Slay is in the Easton, Md., law firm
of Henry, Hairston and Price and lives in St.

Michaels.

Robert R. Baldwin of Maplewood, N.J., has been
promoted to associate general counsel at the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.

H. William Manley is a vice president of corporate
trust for the Toledo Trust Co. in Toledo, Ohio.

Walter W. Stelle has been appointed state direc-
tor for mental health services in North Carolina.

1968
MARRIAGE: William F. Chew III and Diane Lee
Awalt on July 18, 1985. They live in Monkton,
Md. Chew is an associate broker specializing in
commercial and industrial real estate for O’Con-
or, Piper and Flynn in Baltimore.

Hayward F. Day Jr. (See 1962.)

James L. Slattery was elected vice president,
secretary and general counsel of Paradyne Corp.
of Largo, Fla. Slattery, his wife, Noel, and his two
children live in Dunedin, Fla.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jeremy E. Brown, a
daughter, Amy Palmer, on Oct. 24, 1984. He and
his family live in Potomac, Md. Brown recently
received the American Advertising Federation

 

Silver Medal presented by the Washington, D.C.,
Advertising Club.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Alan M. LeVine, a
daughter, Lauren, in February 1986. She joins a
brother, Barry, 4. LeVine is in the private bank-
ing and investment division of Citibank in New
York.

Earl T. Edwards is now a vice president in charge
of programming with the Structural Software Co.
in Roanoke. Edwards lives in Lexington with his
wife, Sharon, and daughter, Khristi.

Roy G. Harrell is president of the United Way of
Pinellas County, Florida. He is president-elect of
the St. Petersburg area Chamber of Commerce and
has been appointed to the governing board of
Southwest Florida Water Management District.

Ronald B. Head is director of institutional research
and planning at Piedmont Virginia Community
College in Charlottesville, Va.

1970

MARRIAGE: Harry L. Salzberg and Alice Blakey
on Feb. 14, 1986. The couple lives in Richmond
where Salzberg is a vice president with the New
York Stock Exchange member firm, Anderson &
Strudwick.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Groton III, a
son, Tyler Custis, on Feb. 22, 1986. He joins a
brother, Clay, 3. Groton is administrative judge
of District 2 on Maryland’s Eastern Shore.

Rev. Edward C. Chapman became rector of Em-
manuel Episcopal Church in Cumberland, Md.,
on Oct. 1, 1985.

Dr. Henry A. Fleishman has taken a partner into
his general surgery practice in Eden, N.C. He lives
there with his wife, Gini, and three children.

Lawrence E. Honig, executive vice president for

| — _— strategic planning and
human resources at May
Department Stores Inc.,
has been elected a direc-
tor and vice chairman of
the firm. He joined the
May Co. in 1982 after
seven years as a principal
for McKinsey & Co. Inc.
in Chicago. He lives in
St. Louis with his wife,
Ellen, and two children.

G. Witney Kemper is pursuing his Ph.D. in
philosophy at Stanford University. Kemper and
his wife, Kathleen, have a two-year-old son,
George Witney.

Joseph D. Raine Jr. is practicing law (including
some equine law) in Louisville, Ky., and racing
standardbred horses. He is president of
neighborhood government for the Butchertown
area of Louisville.

William A. Vaughan, formerly an assistant
secretary for the department of energy, now works
with the law firm of Sutherland, Ashbiil & Bren-
nan. Vaughan heads the newly organized Energy
& Environmental Consultants. He lives in Alex-

andria, Va.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan S. Lynn, twin
sons, Robert Wood and William Duncan, on
March 29, 1986. Lynn has recently been appointed
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Fauquier County,
Virginia. The family lives in Warrenton, Va.

Alexander M. Nading Jr. practices urology in Bir-
mingham, Ala. Nading was recently inducted as

 

a fellow in the American College of Surgeons.
James M. Slay Jr. (See 1965.)

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter A. Biehn, a daughter,
Larkin Elizabeth, on March 17, 1985. Biehn is cur-
rently the community development director for
Danforth, Maine. Larkin Elizabeth is one of five
Biehn children. The family lives in Kingman,
Maine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. David L. Holland, a
daughter, Alexis Ann, on Nov. 26, 1985, in Suf-
folk, Va. She joins a brother and sister.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence E. Morhous, a
daughter, Elizabeth Peyton, on Dec. 1, 1985, in
Bluefield, W. Va. She joins a brother, Lawrence,
6.

Robert G. Brookby has been elected senior vice
president of Wachovia Bank and Trust in Winston-
Salem, N.C. He is manager of national banking
loan administration.

John C. O’Neal, a professor of French at
Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., recently
published a book entitled Seeing and Observing:
Rousseau’s Rhetoric of Perception, which analyzes
Rousseau’s major fictional and autobiographical
works. As director of Hamilton’s Junior Year in
France Program, O’Neal and his family will move
to Paris next year.

Richard J. Splittorf was promoted to eastern
advertising manager for Bon Appetit magazine.
He resides in Wilton, Conn.

E. George Stook Jr. is assistant professor of
business administration at Anne Arundel Com-
munity College in Arnold, Md. Stook recently
completed requirements leading to his CPA and
Certified Management Accountant certificates.

1973
MARRIAGE; William M. Mcllihany and Marvena

Jones on Aug. 13, 1985, in Monte Carlo, Monaco.
The couple lives in Newport Beach, Calif.

Dr. James H. Beaty was inducted as a fellow of
the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons
during ceremonies at the annual meeting in New
Orleans. Beaty lives in Memphis, Tenn.

Gregory P. Buch is currently a scenic services
supervisor for ABC-TV in New York. Scenic ser-
vices provides sets for ABC’s New York-produced
soap operas, newscasts, sports shows, and specials.
Buch lives in Brooklyn.

Dale M. Rhodes has been named vice president
of accounting for the
Citizens and Southern
National Bank of South
Carolina. He is a lecturer
in statistics, operation
research, and accounting
at the University of
South Carolina. He lives
in Columbia, with his
wife, Sandra, and one
child.

Dr. John F. Rothrock lives in San Diego, Calif.,
where he is an assistant professor of neurosciences
and chief of adult neurology at the University of
California-San Diego Medical Center.

Dr. Paul C. Weir is medical director of the Young
Adult Psychiatric Unit, AMI-Brookwood, and
assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the
University of Alabama at Birmingham Medical
School in Birmingham. He graduated in May 1985
from the Philadelphia Academy of Psychoanalysis.

W&L 35

 

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Albergotti, a
daughter, Martha Fairey, on Feb. 27, 1986, in
Anderson, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Andrew B. Chriss, a son,
Evan Andrew, on Nov. 27, 1985. Chriss has been
promoted to vice president of Manekin Corp. in
Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John E. Lane III, a
daughter, Diana Renee, on Sept. 27, 1985. She
joins a brother, Mark Graham, 2. Lane practices
law in Altavista, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William R. Spofford III,
a son, William David, on Feb. 11, 1985. He joins
two sisters, Christina and Julie. The family lives
in Allentown, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Swann, a
daughter, Alice Evans, on April 3, 1985, in Waco,
Texas.

Andrew C. Goresh recently relocated to Baltimore,
Md., with his wife, Pamela, and two daughters,
and is vice president and director of human
resources with the investment counsel firm, T.
Rowe Price Associates Inc.

Dr. Michael D. Peppler is practicing psychiatry in
Norfolk, Va., where he does volunteer work with
a support group for AIDS patients.

1975
MARRIAGE: Robert C. Floyd and Elizabeth
Black on May 18, 1985, in Atlanta. Floyd is a
senior systems specialist with the Burroughs Corp.
in Atlanta.

Paul G. Firth has been promoted to the rank of
major in the Army Medical Corp. He is chief of
OB/GYN services at Fort Stewart, Ga. He recently
became a fellow in the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists.

Richard D. Judson is a school counselor at Hillside
Junior High School in Seven Hills, Ohio. He lives
in Olmsted Falls with his wife, Jane, and son,
Jesse, 2.

Jonathan S. Lynn (See 1971.)

David H. Slater continues-to work in London for
Mobil North Sea, Ltd.

Roger L. Williams has been named a director of
the Richmond law firm, Sands, Anderson, Marks
& Miller. A native of

Richmond, he is a
member of the Rich-
mond Bar Association,
the Virginia Association
of Defense Attorneys,
and the Defense
Research Institute. He
received his law degree
from the University of
Richmond’s T.C.,
Williams School of Law.

1976

MARRIAGE: Dr. Bradley H. Bethel and Kyle M.
Somalz on Sept. 28, 1985, in Columbus, Ohio.
This spring, Bethel was finishing a two-year clinical
research fellowship in laser medicine in Columbus.
He was scheduled to begin his residency in inter-
nal medicine at the Huron Road Hospital in
Cleveland.

MARRIAGE: Douglas R. Muir and Sidney E.
Bachman on May 4, 1985, in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Muir is senior manager in charge of Price
Waterhouse offices in Johnson City, Tenn.

36 W&L

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Baumann, a
son, George Hunkel, on Sept. 26, 1985, in
Whitefish Bay, Wis.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth G. MacDonald Jr.,
a daughter, Gloria Jane, on Feb. 24, 1986, in
Greenville, N.C. MacDonald is a resident surgeon
at the East Carolina University Medical School.

Paul B. Cromelin III is now a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Craighill, Mayfield
and McCally. He specializes in estate planning and
probate work. He lives in Chevy Chase, Md., with
his wife, Margaret, and their daughter, Caroline,
2.

John S. Norris Jr. has joined the firm of Ander-
son & Padrick in Virginia Beach, Va.

James P. Watson lives in Arlington, Va., and
works as a feature writer for The Washington
Times. He spent three weeks during the 1984
Christmas season picking coffee in the mountains
of Nicaragua. He returned to write a five-part
series on the experience and the political sentiments
of the people there.

1977
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Douglass W. Dewing, a
son, Robert Bruce, on March 8, 1985. Dewing is
an attorney with Kellam Pickrell & Lawler in Nor-
folk. The Dewings live in Portsmouth.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James B. Mallory III, a
daughter, McLain Sherrill, on Feb. 3, 1986.
Mallory is a partner in the law firm of Mattox,
Mallory and Simon in Statesville, N. C. He is a
captain in the Army Reserve and serves as the assis-
tant operations/training officer of the 3rd Brigade,
108th Training Division.

Brian L. Garr was recently promoted to director
of management information systems for Dreyfuss
Inc. in Bethesda, Md.

Craig F. Hamilton has become municipal bond
trader for the investment department of the Florida
National Bank. He is living at Ponte Vedra Beach,
Fla.

Mudd, Wolfe
Honored

Roger Mudd, ’50, and Tom Wolfe,
’51, were two of the first 11 inductees in-
to the new Virginia Communications Hall
of Fame.

BEE

 

Mudd, Wolfe, and the other members
were inducted at a Richmond banquet on
April 30.

The Virginia Communications Hall of

  

Michael J. Hightower is managing partner with
Council Oak Books Ltd., a publishing company
that he and two others started in Tulsa, Okla.
Hightower is also a freelance writer and has writ-
ten articles on Oklahoma history.

Mark E. Hoffman is a principal in the Birmingham
law firm of Donovan, McCord & Hoffman, P.C.
He completed the tax master’s program at the
University of Alabama School of Law and received
his LL.M. degree in September 1985.

Lee M. Kennedy works for The Washington Post
where he is conducting research for a book about
the press and politics that is being written by The
Post’s national political correspondent David S.
Broder.

Charles M. Lollar is a partner in the law firm
Heilig, McKenry, Fraim and Lollar with offices
in Norfolk and Virginia Beach. He was recently
elected chairman of the young lawyers’ section of
the Virginia Bar Association and also serves as
president of the Tidewater Alumni Chapter.

1978
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Keith D. Boyette, a
daughter, Laura Marie, on Jan. 21, 1986. She joins
two brothers, Jason and Nathan. The family lives
in Richmond where Boyette is a partner in the law
firm of Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox and
Allen.

Travis E. Bass is a product manager for Georgia
Pacific in Atlanta, Ga. He lives there with his wife,
Laurie, and two children, Ed, 6, and Elizabeth, 4.

Richard W. Stewart lives in New York and works
as a vice president responsible for New York-based
corporate accounts at Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Company. Stewart is scheduled to receive
his M.B.A. from Columbia University in August.

MARRIAGE: Charles C. Habliston IV and Ann
Morton Young on Feb. 8, 1986, in Alexandria, Va.
The couple lives in Alexandria.

Fame is designed to ‘‘provide public
recognition of many positive
achievements by Virginians in the com-
munications field.’’

Mudd, now of NBC News, was a
reporter for the Richmond News-Leader
in 1953 and was news director at WRNL
radio in Richmond (1953-56). He won
several awards for his work on CBS
Reports, including the Peabody Award
for his interview with Teddy Kennedy in
1979.

Wolfe is a Richmond native who has
worked for newspapers in Springfield,
Mass., Washington, and New York. He
is the author of The Right Stuff and other
best-selling books and is currently work-
ing on a novel.

In addition to Mudd and Wolfe, the
late Douglas Southall Freeman, who
wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning biography
of Gen. Robert E. Lee, was among the
inductees.

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John C. Bovay, a son, John
Charles Jr., on Oct. 4, 1985, in Gainesville, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Lane, a son,
Edward Hudson II, on Dec. 12, 1985, in Altavista,
Va. He joins a brother, David.

Michael W. Busbey, senior account representative
for Wallace Computer Services in Denver, is
enrolled in the M.B.A. program at the University
of Denver.

John L. Connolly has left Coopers & Lybrand
Management Consulting Services and rejoined
Connolly Consulting Associates Inc. as a senior
associate. The company specializes in retail ac-
counts payable operations. Connolly currently lives
in New York City.

Amy Herring Gallagher is associated with the
Atlanta law firm of Powell, Goldstein, Frazer &
Murphy. She and her son, Jimmy, live in Canton,
Ga.

Harry E. Hall is assistant general counsel in the
Atlanta firm of Portman Properties. He was
formerly employed as an attorney with
Westmoreland, Hall, McGee, Oxford and Meyer-
son in Atlanta.

William R. Mauck Jr. is a law clerk to the Hon.
A. Christian Compton of the Supreme Court of
Virginia. Mauck plans to join the Richmond firm
of Williams, Mullen and Christian in Richmond
in September.

Warren A. Stephens was named president and
chief executive officer of Stephens Inc. in
February. Based in Little Rock, Ark., Stephens
Inc. is the largest investment banking firm in the
country not based on Wall Street. Stephens earn-
ed his M.B.A. at Wake Forest University and join-
ed the firm in 1981 as an associate for corporate
finance. He also serves on the board of directors
of the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce.
Stephens and his wife, Harriet, live in Little Rock.

1980

Jean L. Baxter was admitted to the Arizona Bar
in November 1985. She is a staff attorney for Com-
munity Legal Services, which serves indigent
clients. She lives in Phoenix.

Arthur L. Bloom has been elected marketing of-
ficer in the marketing group at Wachovia Bank
and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C. He join-
ed Wachovia in 1984.

Betsy Callicott Goodell has joined the legal depart-
ment of Delta Air Lines Inc. in Atlanta.

Michael R. Testerman has left the New Orleans
law firm of Deutsch, Kerrigan & Stiles and return-
ed to his hometown of Springfield, Mo., to prac-
tice with the firm of Daniel, Clampett &
Rittershouse.

Patricia A. VanAllan has become secretary and
general counsel to Sangamo Weston Inc. in Nor-
cross, Ga. Sangamo is a subsidiary of
Schlumberger Ltd., a multi-national corporation
with headquarters in Paris and New York.
VanAllan lives in Atlanta.

1981
MARRIAGE: J. Ross Germano and Karen

Swagart on Sept. 28, 1985. Germano is in the con-
struction business in Lutherville, Md.

Thomas.Coates has joined the Maryland law firm
of Coates, Coates and Coates, P.A. (See Raymond
D. Coates, ’S0).

Bennett N. Easton is living in Studio City, Calif.,
and studying piano and guitar in the composing

and arranging program at the Dick Grove School
of Music. In his spare time, Easton enjoys hang
gliding.

D. Bruce Poole is a Democratic candidate for state
delegate in the upcoming Maryland elections with
an emphasis on ‘‘getting back to the people.’’
Poole joined his father’s Hagerstown, Md., law

firm.
1982

MARRIAGE: Robert W. Haynes and Kimberly
A. Fetty on June 29, 1985, in Charleston, W.Va.
This wedding was incorrectly reported in the
March/April 1986 issue. We regret the error.

1st Lt. Michael J. Collier is on active duty with
the 4th Aviation Battalion at Fort Carson, Colo.

Michael W. Coste is a graduate student in political
science at the University of California at San
Diego.

James E. Dunn Jr. is an assistant vice president
with First Union National Bank. He and his wife,
Gwyn, live in Charlotte, N. C.

Craig J. Dye is an assistant to the president for
the James River Limestone Co. Inc. in Buchanan,
Va.

Lt. Johnna L. Faber, U.S. Navy, was transferred
to Misawa Air Base, Japan, in January 1986.

William D. Johnston, formerly with the Wil-
mington, Del., law firm of Potter Anderson &
Corroon, is now an associate with Young, Con-
away, Stargatt & Taylor in Wilmington.

Glen F. Koontz is in his second year of law school
at Washington and Lee and will spend this sum-
mer clerking with Hall, Monahan, Engle, Mahan
and Mitchell in Leesburg.

Robert Warren III has taken a commercial lending
position with First Interstate Bank in Newport
Beach, Calif.

John A. Wells is executive director of college com-
munications at Mary Baldwin College. His office
was honored by the Council for the Advancement
and Support of Education with an award of ex-
cellence for admissions and recruitment publica-
tions. Wells lives in Staunton.

Usher T. Winslett graduated in May 1986 from
the New York University law school and accepted

a position with the New York firm of Thatcher,
Proffitt and Wood.

Scott S. Bond has completed his Rotary Fellowship
at the University of Sydney in Sydney, Australia,
where he earned a master’s degree in history. Bond
works for Proctor and Gamble and is assigned to
the firm’s Philadelphia professional sales office.

C. Dewitt Caruthers is in his second year at Yale
Law School and will be working in the Atlanta
firm of King and Spalding this summer.

Thomas L. Egbert is stationed with the U. S. Navy
at NAS Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Fla.

Theodore M. Galanides received his M.B.A.
degree from Emory University and is currently in
his first year of law school at the University of
Richmond.

Stephen K. Greene is a first-year law student at
the University of Virginia.

Camden W. Selig received his master’s degree in
sports administration and facility management
from Ohio University in 1985 and is currently
director of ticket operations/assistant marketing
director at Virginia Commonwealth University.

Lt. Michael S. Skardon is executive officer of B
Company, 4th Battalion, 64th Armor Division at
Fort Stewart, Ga.

Mark S. Yerke is a marketing coordinator in the
magazine publishing paper department for the
S.D. Warren Co., a division of the Scott Paper
Co. Yerke lives in Lynn, Mass.

1984

W. Gerard Fallon Jr. is an associate at the New
York law firm of Sullivan and Cromwell.

G. Richard Grainger Jr. has opened a chain of
homemade cookie and ice cream stores in Texas
named Rich’s Designer Ice Cream. He lives in
Tyler.

John E. Harrison Il is working on the sports desk
of the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

Lee H. Heimert lives in Towson, Md., and works
as a mechanical artist in the graphics department
of Richardson, Myers and Donofrio, an advertis-
ing agency based in Baltimore.

 

 

Willard W. Kelly is a marketing manager with the
Dallas-based Woodbine Development Corp. Kel-
ly lives in Fort Worth.

Paul E. Levy is teaching/coordinating the in-
troductory psychology program at Virginia Tech
and working on a master’s thesis in in-
dustrial/organizational psychology.

Lt. G. L. Buist Rivers is adjutant and a nuclear
support team leader for the U. S. Army Weapons
Support Detachment in Korea. He has completed
extensive artillery, airborne, and ranger training.
In September, Rivers will return to this country
for duty at Fort Carson, Colo.

1985

David D. Branscom is on active duty with the 2nd
Armored Division in Fort Hood, Texas.

2nd Lt. Richard A. DeForest is attending the
United States Marine Corps Basic School at Quan-
tico, Va.

Jonathan C. Knaus is working for the Norfolk
firm of McGladrey, Henrickson and Pullen as a
staff accountant.

William R. Mauck Jr. (See 1979.)

R. William Metzger Jr. is a first-year law student
in the joint J.D./M.B.A. program at the Univer-
sity of South Carolina.

2nd Lt. Scott G. Nagley received the parachutist
badge upon completion of the three-week airborne
course at the U.S. Infantry School at Fort Benn-
ing, Ga.

Gordon S. Ogden is a commercial real estate
broker in the New York firm of Pearce, Urstadt,
Mayer and Greer.

D. Bruce Poole (See 1981.)

Jeffrey S. Reichert is an investment accountant
with Provident Institutional Management Corp.
in Wilmington, Del.

J. Robert Spatig II is teaching history at St.
Anne’s-Belfield School in Charlottesville. He is
also the athletic trainer for all sports.

B. Scott Tilley is a personal aid/advance man to
U.S. Sen. Paul Trible, ’71L (R-Va.). Tilley will
enter law school at the University of Virginia in
the fall and plans to travel to Africa this summer
with Sen. Trible.

 

Have Some News?

Let your classmates and friends in on
the latest news in your life. Send us infor-
mation for a class note. Write: Class Notes,
W&L Alumni Magazine, Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1910

Jesse Levi Sumrall, a retired attorney, died Feb.
10, 1986, in Hemet, Calif. A World War I veteran,
he practiced law for 25 years and was an assistant

U.S. attorney.
1916

Charles Lynch Christian, a Lynchburg, Va., ex-
ecutive, died Feb. 18, 1986. Lynch was president

38 —- W&L

of Imperial Colliery Co., Imperial Coal Sales Co..,
Paint Creek Supply Co., East Bank Dock Co.,
Hansford Machinery Co., and 1000 Church Street
Inc. and chairman of the board of the Milburn
Colliery Co., all in Lynchburg. He was a World
War I veteran, a member of the Court Street

_ Methodist Church and the Bob White Lodge, a

charter member of the Boonsboro Country Club,
and a member of the board for the Spring Hill
Cemetery.

Edwin Beswick Shultz, former labor relations of-
ficial with the Tennessee Valley Authority, died
Feb. 13, 1986, in Norris, Tenn. Shultz was one of
the founding members of the Norris Religious
Fellowship. He was an All-American football
player while at Washington and Lee. He served
with the U.S. Army stateside during World War I.

1919

Benjamin Haines Rigg of Jupiter, Fla., died March
18, 1986, in an automobile accident in which his
wife and a friend were also killed. Rigg graduated
from Lehigh University after attending
Washington and Lee and joined the U.S. Coast
& Geodetic Survey. He was a member of the Mac-
Millan Expedition to the North Pole in the early
1920s and served tours in the Philippines, Alaska,
and Hawaii before retiring in 1952. Rigg was a life-
long member of the Church of the Good Shepherd
and active in the Audubon Society and the
Lighthouse Gallery at which he often displayed his
Original bird carvings.

1920

Max Robert Broudy, a Norfolk, Va., attorney,
died Jan. 4, 1986.

Beverly Andrew Davis Jr. died March 15, 1986.
He practiced law in Rocky Mount, Va., for 67
years. A graduate of Roanoke College and the
W&L School of Law, he served as Rocky Mount
town attorney from 1951 to 1968 and was assis-
tant attorney general in Virginia’s western district.
He was.a World War I veteran.

1924

James Forbes Seals, a retired U.S. Army colonel,
died March 28, 1985, in Chattanooga, Tenn. Seals
graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1924
and received his law degree from Chattanooga Col-
lege of Law in 1927.

1925

Dr. William Louis Woolfolk died Feb. 16, 1986.
He received his medical training at the University
of Pennsylvania and interned at Presbyterian
Hospital in Philadelphia before entering specializ-
ed training in a New Orleans hospital. From 1932
to the mid-1970s he practiced medicine in
Owensboro, Ky., where he introduced hospital
surgical procedures for eye, ear, nose, and throat
patients. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
a board member of the Davis County Board of
Health and various medical associations. He was
a member of the Settle Memorial United Methodist
Church and a lay delegate to the Louisville Con-
ference of the United Methodist Church.

1926

Carl Bickley Knight, retired editor and publisher,
died Feb. 23, 1986, in Big Stone Gap, Va. While
at Washington and Lee, Knight was president of
the publications board, editor of the Calyx, and
a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He was a
member of the Kiwanis Club and held various of-
fices in the Virginia Press Association and the
Virginia State Printers Association. Knight was a
member of the Lonesome Pine Country Club and

the Carolina Yacht Club in Charleston, S.C., and
treasurer and member of the vestry of Christ
Episcopal Church in Big Stone Gap.

1928

George Sloan Arnold, a retired attorney from
Romney, W. Va., died March 22, 1986, in Har-
risonburg, Va. Arnold attended Washington and
Lee from 1903 to 1905 and received his law degree
in 1928. He established the George Sloan Arnold
Scholarship and Loan Fund at Washington and
Lee in 1974 to provide scholarships and loans to
applicants who demonstrate financial need and
academic excellence.

1932

Martin Parks Burks, former president of the W&L
Alumni Association and organizer and first presi-
dent of the W&L Law School Association, died
Feb. 21, 1986, in Roanoke, Va. He had been in
private law practice for almost 20 years. He retired
in 1975 as general counsel of the Norfolk and
Western Railway after 28 years in the railroad’s
law department. Burks received an honorary doc-
tor of laws degree from W&L in 1959. He served
on many community boards and was a member
of the House of Delegates of the American Bar
Association and former president of the Roanoke
Bar Association. He was a member of the Roanoke
City School Board from 1949 to 1953; president
of the boards of Jefferson and Community
hospitals; president of the Shenandoah Club; and
a member of the boards of Shenandoah Life In-
surance Co., Colonial American Bankshares
Corp., Westminster Canterbury of Lynchburg,
North Cross School, Central YMCA, Historic Lex-
ington Foundation, and the West Virginia
Chamber of Commerce. He served on the Virginia
Advisory Legislative Council and an advisory
council on economic education. He had been
senior warden of St. John’s Episcopal Church and
chairman of the finance department of the
Episcopal Diocese of Southwestern Virginia.

1933

Ethelbert Henry Evans of Montgomery, Ala., died
Feb. 22, 1986. He was associated with Capital Fer-
tilizer Co. for 45 years. He was past president of
the Montgomery Rotary Club and a Paul Harris
Fellow of the Rotary International Foundation.
He headed campaigns for the Red Cross, Com-
munity Chest, and March of Dimes and served on
the Boy Scout Council. He was a member of the
St. Joseph of Arimathea Anglican Church.

John Benjamin Neuner, owner of A&N Furniture
Co. in Plant City, Fla., died June 15, 1985.

1934

James Allen Black, chairman of the board of the
Times and Alleganian Co., died Feb. 19, 1986, in
Cumberland, Md. In 1935 Black began his career
with the company, which publishes the
Cumberland Evening Times, the Cumberland
News, and the Cumberland Sunday Times. He
worked in various managerial capacities until
becoming chairman of the board in 1978. He serv-
ed with the U.S. Army for three years during
World War II.

William Burl Tyree died Feb. 8, 1986, in Clear-
water, Fla. Tyree retired in 1978 after 32 years with
Standard Register Co. of Dayton, Ohio. He serv-
ed in the armed forces for five years during World
War II, attaining the rank of captain. He was a
member of the First Christian Church of

Clearwater.
1936

Alfred Marvin Pullen Jr., retired certified public

 

 

Mrs. Mac

Catherine Feland McDowell, secretary to
five deans of the Washington and Lee School
of Law, died April 8 at Lexington’s Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. She was 82.

Born in Lawrenceburg, Ky., in 1904, she
was the widow of Charles R. McDowell who
taught law at W&L from 1927 until his death
in 1968.

For 30 years ‘‘the indispensable Mrs. Mac’”’
ruled the law dean’s office on the first floor
of Tucker Hall. So profound was her influence
among the students, faculty, and administra-
tion that two scholarships were established in
her honor—the first by the Law School
Association in 1966 upon her retirement from
the dean’s office and the second in 1979 in her
honor by the Law Council, governing board
of the Law School Association.

During graveside ceremonies in Stonewall

 

 

Robert E. R. Huntley, ’50, ’57L, now the
president of Best Products Co. in Richmond,
knew Mrs. Mac while student, professor, and
dean.

**She took us as we came and in a subtle
way nudged us to take charge of ourselves and
to become whatever we were capable of,”’
Huntley said. ‘‘She never, or almost never, of-
fered advice in any kind of direct way but
somehow after talking with her we knew what
we ought to do and were inclined to try to do it.

‘In those years the bright spot of every
working day for me—as a student and later as
a teacher—was the time I spent talking with
Mrs. McDowell, sometimes only a minute,
sometimes much longer.

‘‘Amazingly, she always seemed to have
time for such visits—not just with me but with
any of us. In retrospect, I don’t know how she
managed that, because she turned out pro-
digious amounts of work, and all with perfect
efficiency and accuracy.... Yet she had time for
us, even while she worked. Her office—the
outer room of the dean’s office—was a place
of constant traffic. I truly don’t know how she
did it. And strangest of all, it never occurred
to me to wonder about it until now. It was just
the way things were.”’

Andrew W. (Uncas) McThenia, ’58, ’63L,
who joined the W&L law faculty in 1967,
characterized Mrs. McDowell as ‘‘perhaps the
gentlest lady I have ever known.”’

Said McThenia: ‘‘The gentleness I am talk-
ing about is not that sort of courtesy which
refers to polite manners, but gentleness in its
simplest form—a respectful and tender
presence to everything and everyone, a respect
for the dignity of life, a respect for the dignity
of the most washed-out and dissolute student
who might be in such despair that he had no
respect for himself. That sort of gentleness
which arises from within a person, from a deep
awareness of one’s place in life, in the vision

ficial record for the longest tenure among
American law deans—not law deans’
secretaries, mind you.

Explained McThenia: ‘‘While there were
various figureheads who held the title of dean
during those many years, she knew—and what
is more important, they knew—who really ran
the place. She had a selfless way of letting the
occupants of the office think they were actually
in charge.’’

In addition to the graveside tributes, former
W&L journalism professor Paxton Davis used
his weekly column in the Roanoke Times and
World-News to take notice of Mrs. Mac’s
death.

Davis observed that ‘‘for several genera-
tions of students at the Washington and Lee
University School of Law she was a legend—
not only a key figure in getting them through
law school, but also one of the people from
whom they learned a lot of law as well.”’

Continued Davis: ‘‘Her role was scarcely
confined to typing and filing, however.
Professors—one must try to say this as delicate-
ly as possible, yet make the point—often know
a lot and some even manage to pass some of
it on; but many cannot find the men’s room
without a map and many more wander in and
out of class as vaguely as campus dogs.

“It was Mrs. McDowell who invariably
kept things on a coherent footing. . . .She not
only got the paperwork done but kept the small
faculty and student body moving in the right
direction. In the process, she typed a lot of
papers and filed a lot of memoranda. But she
also averted a lot of trouble and innumerable
blunders, and managed somewhere along the
way to keep everyone around her more or less
clearheaded.”’

Mrs. McDowell is survived by two sons,
Charles McDowell Jr., ’48, the Washington-
based columnist of the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, and John Feland McDowell, ’52,

 

Jackson Cemetery, two of Mrs. Mac’s adop- of who one is.’’ *S4L, of Williamsburg, and by six
tive sons shared their memories of her. McThenia said that by virtue of her 30 years — grandchildren.
Former Washington and Lee President _ in the office Mrs. McDowell holds the unof-
accountant, died March 16, 1986, in Greensboro, jor. He started Pete Metcalf Co. Inc., a food in- | Charles Edwin Mottesheard, attorney

N.C. Pullen, a Navy veteran of World War II,
worked as an accountant for A. M. Pullen Co.
for 43 years. He was a life member of the North
Carolina Trap Shooting Association and the
American Trap Shooting Association. Pullen was
a past member of the Greensboro Cotillion Club
and a member of the West Market Street United
Methodist Church.

1937

Laurence White Wilson Jr. of Manakin-Sabot,
Va., died in September 1985. He retired in 1980
after 45 years in the garment business. He was with
Blue Bell Inc., Wrangler Menswear Division, for
32 years. He served with the Army during World
War II, spending 33 months in the South Pacific
and attaining the rank of captain.

1939

George Charles Graff, retired senior project
engineer for the Continental Telephone Corp.,
died Feb. 16, 1986, in Gainesville, Va.

Peter Valentine Metcalf died March 13, 1986, in
Dallas. Metcalf graduated from the University of
Denver in 1939 and served with the U. S. Marines
during World War II, attaining the rank of ma-

gredients business, in Dallas in 1953. Metcalf was
president of the Allied Trades Association and the
Texas Bakers Association and a member of the
American Association of Cereal Chemists and In-
stitute of Food Technologists. He was a member
of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church.

Thomas William Moses, a member of the W&L
Alumni Association Board of Directors from 1963
to 1967, died March 23, 1986. Moses received his
LL.B. degree from Yale University in 1942 and
served with the U. S. Navy during World War II.
He practiced law in West Virginia and Penn-
sylvania from 1945 to 1955 and joined «the In-
dianapolis Water Co. in 1956. In 1963 he became
president of Investors Diversified Services, leav-
ing that company a year later to become president
of First Interoceanic Corp. He rejoined In-
dianapolis Water Co. in 1970 as president and serv-
ed in that capacity until 1980 when he was made
chairman of the board and chief executive officer.
Moses was chairman of the Greater Indianapolis
United Way, president and lay advisory board
member of St. Vincent Hospital Foundation, and
member of the boards of the Indiana Chamber of
Commerce and the Indianapolis Chamber of
Commerce.

 

Charleston, W. Va., for 45 years, died March 28,
1986. He served in the Navy during World War
II. He was a member of the state and national bar
associations, Christ Church United Methodist
Church, the Warner Bible Class, Edgewood Coun-
try Club, and Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.

194]

Irving Kohlman Kaler, a founding member of the
Atlanta law firm Kaler, Karesh and Frankel, died
Feb. 16, 1986. He was chairman of the Georgia
State Ethics Commission from 1975 to 1981 and
of the Campaign Disclosures Commission in
Georgia from 1976 to 1982. Kaler was active in
the Democratic Party at the local, state, and na-
tional level. In 1968 he was appointed first chair-
man of the Atlanta Community Relations Com-
mission. A 1942 graduate of the Lamar School of
Law at Emory University, Kaler served as an
American Red Cross assistant field director dur-
ing World War II. Active throughout his life in
different branches of B’nai B’rith, he served as na-
tional president of its youth organizations in 1941
and chairman of the southeastern regional advisory
board of its Anti-Defamation League in 1966. He
received its sixth national Abe Goldstein Human
Relations Award in 1971. Kaler was a director of

W&L 39

 

the Atlanta Legal Aid Society and the Atlanta
Jewish Social Service Federation and served on the
boards of the YMCA, Academy Theater, Alliance
Theater, and Northside School of the Arts. He was
a member of the Atlanta, Georgia, and American
bar associations and the Emory University Alumni
Council.

Charles Edwin Mottesheard (See 1939.)

1943

Charles Christian Schock, a vice president and
director of the Franklin State Bank in Matawan,
N.J., died June 15, 1985, from injuries suffered
in an automobile accident. Schock served in the
Army during World War II and was a graduate
of the Rutgers University law school and the
Stonier School of Banking at Rutgers. He was a
member of the Rotary Club and the Monmouth
County Bar Association, a member of the board
of the Monmouth County Mental Health Associa-
tion, and a founder and board member of the
Bayshore Community Hospital.

1944

Dr. Ernest Lovell Becker, former director of the
department of medicine at Beth Israel Hospital and
a leading national figure in kidney research and
treatment, died Feb. 19, 1986. He lived in Water
Mill, N.Y. Becker had been a professor of
medicine at the Cornell University Medical School,
which he joined in 1968. He was well-known in
the medical community for his kidney research and
his interest in high-altitude physiology, particularly
among the Indian tribes of Peru. From 1970 to
1973, Becker was president of the National Kidney
Foundation and director of graduate medical
evaluation at the American Medical Association
from 1978 to 1980. He received his medical degree
from the University of Cincinnati in 1948 and serv-
ed in the U.S. Air Force Medical Corps from 1953
to 1955. Washington and Lee awarded him an
honorary doctor of science degree in 1980.

1946

Herbert Nathan Hamric Jr., a Lexington insurance
executive, died April 6, 1986. Hamric held a
number of positions in the real estate and insurance
business and more recently was a sales represen-
tative for the Manhattan Life/New England Life
Insurance Company. He was a member of the
Manly Memorial Baptist Church.

1948

Brientnall Stanley Gill Jr., a retired regional
manager for Mutual of America Insurance Co. in
Charleston, W.Va., died Feb. 7, 1986, in Florida.
Gill served in the Air Corps during World War
II and was a member of St. John’s Episcopal
Church and Edgewood Country Club.

1949

Wesley Hugh Jolly, senior partner in the law firm
Jolly, Place, Fralin & Prillaman, with offices in
Roanoke, Salem and Galax, died March 8, 1986,
in Galax. Jolly joined the firm in 1949 and mov-
ed his office from Roanoke to Galax when he
became a senior partner. He was a prominent an-
nexation and municipal lawyer. He represented
Salem in its annexation cases and helped write the
charter that converted Salem from a town to a ci-
ty. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the
Order of the Coif. He belonged to the
Roanoke/Salem, Galax/Grayson County, and
Virginia bar associations and was admitted to the
North Carolina bar in 1984. He was a fellow of
the International Society of Barristers and the
American College of Trial Lawyers and a member

40 W&L

of both the Virginia Association of Defense At-
torneys and the Defense Research Institute.

Dale Wilson LaRue, formerly chief district judge
of the 27th General District of Virginia, died
March 21, 1986. LaRue received his bachelor’s
degree from Emory & Henry College and opened

_a law office in Galax after graduating from

Washington and Lee’s School of Law. He served
as Commonwealth’s attorney for Carroll County,
city attorney for Galax, judge of the Galax
Municipal Court, and county judge and juvenile
and domestic relations judge for the counties of
Carroll and Pulaski. He became judge of the
General District Court for Galax, Carroll, and
Pulaski counties in 1973. He was active in the First
Christian Church in Galax, the Rotary Club, and
the American Legion as well as state and national
professional organizations.

Henry Andrew Lederer, retired partner in a com-
puter software company, died Feb. 13, 1986, at
his winter home in Fort Lauderdale. Lederer was
a partner in Eastern Software Distributors Inc. in
Ruxton, Md. He had been a partner in a family-
owned grain brokerage firm before entering com-
puter software. He was on the board of Century
Savings and Loan Association and was president
of the Baltimore Chamber of Commerce. Lederer
served in the Army Air Corps during World War
II and later reached the rank of lieutenant colonel
in the Air Force Reserve. He was a member of the
Maryland Club, L’Hirondelle Club, and the

Elkridge Club.
1950

Joseph McFarland Vicars, who had been in the
insurance business in Martinsville, Va., for 30
years, died March 4, 1986. During World War II
he served in the Marine Corps in the Pacific
Theater Operations. Vicars was affiliated with the

Equitable Life Assurance Society and in 1963 join-
ed the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany and later became a Certified Life Under-
writer. Vicars was a member of the Martinsville
Jaycees and the Kiwanis Club and an elder in the
First Presbyterian Church.

Friends

Arthur Silver, former vaudevillian who kept
Washington and Lee students in suits for many
years, died April 22 in Lexington. He was 97. Silver
came to Lexington in 1926 and opened a clothing
store in the old Lee Hotel from which he sold
custom-made suits for $29.50 and $34.50. A
familiar figure on the Lexington sidewalks for
generations, Silver was as renowned for his
storytelling as his suits. He had closed his shop
in the mid-1970s but still told his stories to anyone
who would stop and take the time to listen. A story
by Mike Hudson, ’85, in the Roanoke Times and
World-News indicated that Silver’s most prized
possession was an autographed photo of U.S. Sen.
John W. Warner, ’49, who had spoken briefly with
Silver during last year’s law commencement at
W&L and remembered buying his first postwar suit
at Silver’s store. A memorial service for Silver was
held on May 2 in Lee Chapel.

Henry I. Willett, a nationally known educator who
received an honorary degree from W&L in 1968,
died on March 20 in Richmond. He was 81. Willett
was superintendent of Richmond’s schools dur-
ing the throes of desegregation and was later act-
ing president of Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity. A graduate of William and Mary, he receiv-
ed a master’s degree from Columbia University.
Among the survivors is Henry I. Willett Jr., ’52,
of Virginia beach, former president of Longwood
College.

And Furthermore

 

EDITOR:

In deciding not to alter the University’s invest-
ment policy with respect to companies doing
business in South Africa, the Board of Trustees
has once again demonstrated its wisdom and is to
be commended. (A previous outstanding decision
was to admit women to W&L).

Various other universities, notably Harvard
and some of the other more liberal (in the sense
of left-leaning) ones, have chosen the other path,
which, if followed universally, would only hurt
more blacks than whites. Indeed, many of the com-
panies whose stock is being sold off are those who
follow the enlightened ‘‘Sullivan’’ principles of
equal opportunity. For every stock sale there is a
purchaser, so the net effect of disinvestment is
zero. |

How much better is the action of our Trustees,
who, while properly denouncing apartheid, have
recommended positive, constructive steps to ex-
plore areas which aim to benefit directly the vic-
tims of apartheid.

FREDERICK D. STRONG, 735
Burton, S.C.

EDITOR:

As a W&L alumnus and a graduate of the
theatre studies program in 1980, I was sickened
by the garish, grinning jackanapes in the cover

photo of the March/April issue of the Alumni
Magazine.

It is patently false advertising to assert that the
theatre at W&L plays anything but a marginal role
in the University life and receives anything more
than the merest acknowledgement from the ad-
ministration and the treasury.

Celebrating ‘‘50 years’’ in what was then, and
still is, that ill-equipped, antediluvian firetrap we
call the University Theatre is inspired ‘‘clowning”’
indeed.

I find it amusing (as I did when I attended
W&L) that the classics are performed, but not
taught within the theatre department (an un-
mitigated case of ‘‘the horse before the cart’’).

Mr. Mish is hopelessly misinformed or educa-
tionally misguided when he states that a theatre
education at W&L is as rigorous or as efficacious
as a graduate master’s program.

The remarks concerning Lee Kahn, the true
backbone of the program, a brilliant teacher and
a caring man, provided the only truth to the arti-
cle. W&L is in desperate need of another Lee
Kahn.

The joke is on the ‘‘clowns’”’ of your cover
story, sadly, an educational joke.

WALTER M. FRANKENBERGER III, ’80
New Haven, Conn.

 

 

1966-1986

 

by Bruce W. Rider, ’66

A. first I did not feel entitled to return to the 20th reunion
of the Class of 1966.

The invitation in the mail outlining the planned events seem-
ed to be not only from another place and time, but from another
world.

The succeeding years of Alumni Magazines chronicled the
careers and personal growth of graduates leading lives of ex-
cellence, of philanthropic contribution, of improving the very
fabric of the communities in which they lived.

In 1966, I believed that my life would go in a similar direc-
tion, that the knowledge, discipline, and honor developed at
Washington and Lee would propel me toward the significant
contributions of those who had completed their formative time
in Lexington to go out into the world to lead and to serve.

As a captain in the U.S. Air Force, one of my four years
of service was in South Vietnam in 1969-70. How does one
relate, how does one describe, how does one comprehend the
horror, the terror, the overwhelming power of war’s only true
victor—death itself?

My Bronze Star Medal was reported in the Alumni
Magazine, as well as such other events as the births of my sons
and changes in jobs in the years that came after the war.

But how to report and record the true losses from the war—
the pain, the not infrequent death of hope itself?

Among other losses from the Vietnam war for me was the
loss of most of my eyesight.

A friend read me the planned agenda for the May 1986 re-
union. Suddenly I listened with full attention: a ceremony would
be held in Lee Chapel to honor a classmate, a Medal of Honor
winner, one of the 18 men from Washington and Lee to die
in the Vietnam war.

Such a ceremony was an outstanding and proper event to
be included in the reunion, of course. But Vietnam still evokes
such mixed feelings and memories. Much about the war was
simply crazy, bizarre, unreal, nothing like the myths and mys-
tiques of wars and battles read about in books in Lexington.

I came to the reunion in great part drawn by the attempt,
at least, to place an honorable marker on the pain and loss of
those Vietnam years.

The ceremony in Lee Chapel was genuine, was authentic,
was in fact healing.

For me, this was the first public recognition for the time
in my life when I risked everything I had so that the freedoms
I had grown up with (paid for by earlier generations of American
men and women) could be maintained for those who would
follow after me.

 

The ceremony honoring Congressional Medal of Honor winner James
H. Monroe held during the reunion weekend moved one of Monroe’s
classmates to reflect upon his own experiences during and since Viet-
nam. While he was still on the campus for his 20th reunion, Bruce W.
Rider, ’66, wrote this article and sent it to Washington and Lee Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, as Rider’s way of thanking the University for
including Jim Monroe, Rider, and, indeed, all of the University’s Viet-
nam veterans in the reunion activities.

 

In retrospect,
what truly amazes
me is that Robert
E. Lee could come
to Lexington so
soon after a bitter
. war and devote his

JAMES HOWARD MONROE energy, imagina-

 

 

 

 

IN MEMORY OF

 

 

OF tion, and life to the

WHEATON, ILLINOIS future of his region
CLASS OF 1966 and of his nation.

FIRST CLASS MONROE WAS KILLED IN ACTION Having seen the
we "pir sts aT dark heart of war,
BONG 308, BOAL — PROVINCE, YIRTWAM Lee turned his at-

ih FEMEUART 1947

tention and

abilities almost im-
oe Tiree’ qekist MiLiTioy MeceniTION - mediately to the
HOUS SALLAMTEY AMD INTREPIDITT Iy ACTION work of peace and
BiSk OF B15 LIFE ABOVE amd BETOUD 794 the rebuilding of

z LOROUS ACTION, PLEPOR MED IB 4
SELYLESSOLSS, SAVED THE LIVES OF 95% the values of life

GE GAS AWARDED THE

  
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

AT THE GOING DOWN OF THE SUN and honor.
| ABD 1 THE MORNi Ms / .
i. WE WILL REMEMBER THEM. . For most Viet-

 

 

nam veterans, it
has taken us at
least 10 years to
bring our wounded souls and hearts back to anything resembIl-
ing fullness and hope.

The inspiration for me now—the almost unbelievable
concept—is that Lee could lay down the dreadful past and work
with imagination and determination to forge a meaningful
future, to provide a legacy for accomplishment and honor that
lives today on this campus and in the hearts and minds of our
students and graduates.

- It is still not easy to get beyond the losses, the deaths, the
anger, and the pain of the Vietnam experience.

But, as in so many areas, Robert E. Lee continues to lead
the way.

To restoration.

To forgiveness.

To the need for and value of service to others—so that by
taking such action, freedom and justice will prevail over the
forces of darkness, discouragement, and despair.

It was not easy to come back to Washington and Lee in 1986,
to have to look inward at the cost of self and hope of these
past 20 years.

Now I know that it was right to return.

The bedrock values of Washington and Lee remain. In fact,
they grow stronger.

And these values will continue to sustain those of us who
fought in Vietnam as we look now to the coming years of life,
remembering along with Robert E. Lee that it is up to each of
us to work to build a world worthy of the Creator God who
gave us each the gift of life, so that we might work together
continually to have honor, peace, and even joy.

 

cans

 

