 

 

 

 

 

Va

 

Se
t. ed ra

 

 

     

 

 

  

Ne a eee Test)

es re

Ma

l

a

az

i

Benes

 

lumn

 

ton an

Hrs

 

 

 

aT OETA CE

Janua

 

 

 

 

 

 

arty on! te

i oe ae iso 8

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 61, Number 1, February 1986

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FuRE, Contributing Editor
ANNE COULLING, Editorial Assistant
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, °50, President
Baltimore, Md.

Rice M. TILLey Jr., °58, Vice President
Fort Worth, Texas

CHARLES R. BEALL, 756, Treasurer
Martinsburg, W.Va.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

LeRoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, 59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. NAT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, °44
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HOWARD CapPITo, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JOHN W. Fo som, ’73
Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD JR., ’69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JR., 765, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

WAYNE D. McGrew Jr., 52
Atlanta, Ga.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50
New York, N.Y.

PAuL J. B. MuRpHy, ’49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN JR., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

JOHN Poynor, ’62
Birmingham, Ala.

CHESTER T. SMITH JR., ’53
Darien, Conn.

STANLEY A. WALTON III, ’62, ’65L
Chicago, Ill.

 

On the Inside

 

 

2 Now Where?

 

6 Real-World Liberal Arts

 

8 Lee Chapel Wars

 

12 Guns Along the Potomac

 

15 A Record Season

 

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December by
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class
postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.
Copyright © 1986 Washington and Lee University

18 Appetite for Success

 

22 W&L Gazette

 

27 Generals’ Report

 

29 Alumni News

 

32 Class Notes

 

39 In Memoriam

 

40 =And Furthermore

 

On the Cover: Washington and Lee junior running back Kevin

‘Weaver eludes a tackler on his way to another touchdown during

a remarkable fall. A profile of Weaver begins on page 15. Photo
by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73. Inside Front Cover: Lee Chapel, shown
in a snowstorm, might have looked much different had it not been
for the outcome of the Chapel Wars. A story begins on page 8.

QO. June 5, about 300 Washington and Lee seniors will
walk down the Colonnade to receive their bachelor’s degrees.
They will not be alone.

According to the latest education department projections,
those 300 Washington and Lee graduates will be among
945,000 men and women who are expected to earn bachelor’s
degrees during 1985-86.

That raises the question: which way will they all go?

Unless W&L’s Class of 1986 differs markedly from its re-
cent predecessors (and nothing indicates it will), more than 30
percent—say, 90 or so graduates—will enter graduate or pro-
fessional school as full-time students. Meanwhile, about 60
percent, or 180, of the new W&L degree-holders will go
directly into the job market. Once there, those 180 will be
competing with an estimated 817,000 other new college
graduates for jobs.

They’re all certain to get somewhere, of course, both those
who go directly into the job market and those who choose
graduate school. But where? And how will they get wherever
it is they’re going?

O.. weekday evening in late November, nine Washington
and Lee seniors gathered in a University Center room for a
special seminar. The session was not required but their
presence testified to the importance of the topic. It was all
about finding a job. In the midst of the discussion, Associate
Dean of Students Michael Cappeto stopped abruptly, examin-
ed the anxious faces, and proclaimed: ‘‘You are all going to
get jobs—I promise.”’

A W&L

 

Now
Where?

 

W&L Career Counselors
Are Busier Than Ever

 

by Jeffery G. Hanna

ALICE: ‘‘Will you tell me, please, which way I ought to
go from here?’’

CHESHIRE CAT: ‘‘That depends a good deal on where
you want to get to.”’

ALICE: ‘“‘I don’t much care where—’”’

CHESHIRE CAT: ‘‘Then it doesn’t matter which way you
go.”’

ALICE: ‘‘—so long as I get somewhere.’’

CHESHIRE CAT: “Oh, you’re sure to do that if you only
walk long enough.”’

—Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland

That bold pronouncement was greeted with a wave of ner-
vous laughter—as if the students were waiting for the catch
that was sure to follow. But the catch never came.

‘‘Every year I tell students in the job-hunting seminars that
they will all get jobs. And they never really believe me,’’ says
Cappeto, who directs the University’s career counseling and
placement office. ‘‘Each one expects to be the exception, the
one who doesn’t make it. Many think that, because I say this,
I must have a crystal ball I can look into or a magic wand
that I can wave and they’ll have the job. But it doesn’t work
that way.”’

Crystal balls and magic wands have never been standard
equipment in college placement offices. But years ago those
offices were at least true to their name: placement. They did,
indeed, ‘‘place’’ graduates in jobs. Or, at the very least, they
dispensed the kind of advice that Dustin Hoffman was given
in The Graduate: ‘‘I just want to say one word to you, just
one word—plastics.’’

‘‘I wish it were enough to whisper ‘microchips’ to our
students and send them off into the world,’’ says Cappeto.
“It just isn’t that way any more.”’

The career counseling and placement function has changed
dramatically. For one thing, college students (and their
parents) are more keenly interested than ever in how the col-
lege can help them in the job market.

‘‘Even back in the depths of the recession when the job
market was much tighter, I didn’t see nearly as many students
as I see [for counseling] now,’’ says Cappeto.

 

 

 

 

 

‘‘In a sense, the basic reason

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON

The shift in the way today’s col-
lege graduates are approaching

 

many people go to college has
changed,”’ he adds. ‘‘The tradi-
tional mission of a liberal arts
education is to develop the in-
tellect. Now when you poll
students, more of them than in the
past will list getting a good job
high on their list of reasons for go-
ing to college.’’

As proof of that trend, an an-
nual study of the nation’s college
freshmen conducted by the
Cooperative Institutional Research
Program reports that the movement
in student values towards material
concerns and financial security
reached an all-time high with the
Class of 1988. Seven in 10 of the
surveyed students indicated that
‘being very well off financially”’
was an important personal goal.
That figure was only 43.5 percent
in 1967.

It is hardly surprising, then,
that students are quite concerned
about what it will take for them to

 

 

career planning and the job market
is apparent not only to those inside
the ivory tower. Prospective
employers notice the difference,
too.

‘It is quite evident that today’s
students are more success-oriented
than students 10 or 15 years ago,”’
says Lacy Edwards, senior vice
president and director of human
resources for Dominion
Bankshares. ‘‘The students whom I
see nowadays want very much to be
involved in the decision-making
process. They want recognition,
and they want it pretty darn
quick.”’

Cheryl Snyder, a district person-
nel manager for NCR, adds: “‘I can
remember the days when students
would wait until graduation was a
couple of months away to think
about what they were going to do.
Now most of them have a good
idea of what they want and how to

 

copyright, 1985, Universal Press Syndicate. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved.

 

get that good job—from the sub-
jects they ought to study to the
most effective methods of
marketing themselves.

‘Because the job market has been so shaky in the last 10
years, students have taken greater care in selecting majors that
they consider highly marketable,’’ says Anne Schroer, an
associate dean at W&L who divides her time between the dean
of student’s office and the career development and placement
office. ‘‘Since today’s students are more materialistic, many of
them are primarily interested in seeking a job that promises
them a high salary rather than a good fit. That is a concern
we have in counseling, because that can lead to problems
down the road.”’

Another aspect of these trends was at the heart of a New
York Times story last February that reported how enrollments
in medical, law, and business schools had begun to slip in re-
cent years. Although the perceived oversupply of professionals
in those areas is cited as a significant cause of the dropoff,
many students believe that they are no more likely to succeed
in a chosen profession with an advanced degree than without
one.

For more and more students the decision to reject a
graduate program has become a matter of weighing costs ver-
sus benefits. ‘‘Students are looking at the additional expense,
effort, and time as a poor investment,’’ Cappeto explains.
‘“‘They see that an advanced degree is not going to get them a
significantly better job than they can get with the bachelor’s
degree right away.”’

That is not to suggest that these students will not eventual-
ly continue their studies and pursue an advanced degree. As
has been historically the case at W&L, many still will.
‘Because today’s job market is so strong and because students
believe the work experience will benefit them if they do decide
to go to graduate school, many more are at least postponing
graduate studies,’’ says Cappeto.

When careers and allergies collide

go about getting it.’’

Peter Hunt is a case in point. A
senior from Huntington, W.Va.,
Hunt intended to pursue the pre-
med curriculum when he entered W&L. By the middle of his
sophomore year, he had begun to change directions. (“‘To be
a doctor, you have to feel it in your heart and soul,’’ says
Hunt. “‘I just didn’t have that feeling.’’) He did not abandon
his original interests entirely, however. Now an interdepart-
mental science major, he is leaning toward a career in invest-
ment banking. He began plotting his job-hunting strategy dur-
ing his junior year.

‘“I’ve approached looking for a job as an additional class
that I’m taking,’’ says Hunt. ‘‘I devote four or five hours
each week to researching companies, writing letters, and
reworking my resume. There is an art to this.’’

Indeed, job-hunting has become an art form. From the
wording of resumes to the clothes worn to an interview, job
hunters today are far more deliberate in their approach. And,
as a consequence, colleges and universities are placing greater
emphasis on what they can offer their students in the way of
career guidance and placement. Some schools (W&L is not
among them) even include that office on the admissions tour.

‘““College placement offices have come from doing almost
nothing 30 years ago to developing fairly sophisticated pro-
grams,’’ says Steve Bredin, a former placement director at
University of Virginia’s Colgate Darden School of Business
Administration who serves as an adviser to W&L’s placement
office. ‘‘I would rate Washington and Lee at the upper end of
the very good programs, but we are not very sophisticated
when you consider some of the things that colleges are doing.

‘‘For example, there are instances in which firms can dial
up the data base at a college placement office, and the com-
puter will spit back the names and resumes of students at that
school who fit whatever parameters the firm has keyed into
the computer. Frankly, that scares me.”’

W&L 3

 

re is no such data base at W&L, where the Office of
Career Development and Placement operates from a suite of
rooms in the University Center and offers students services
ranging from group seminars to individual counseling to on-
campus interviews for students with about 50 different firms,
35 law schools, and eight M.B.A. programs.

As the office’s name suggests, there are two separate func-
tions involved. On the one hand, students are given the oppor-
tunity to find out where it is they want to go; on the other,
they are shown how they can best get there.

‘‘Most of our students, like those elsewhere, think of the
career counseling and placement office as the place seniors go
to get jobs,’’ says Cappeto. ‘‘Ideally, we ought to involve
students from the time they enter.’’

The primary focus for freshmen and sophomores is helping
them define their career values, assess their strengths and
weaknesses, and then use that information to plan their col-
lege experience, both in and out of the classroom.

‘‘Many students enter college with a predefined notion of
what they will major in that is based on what their parents
want or what friends of theirs are going to do or what the
secondary school has funneled them toward,”’ says Schroer.
‘‘And now there is the trend toward matching the career path
with the projected job market—looking into the future to see
what will be most in demand.”’

People who set out for a specific career without consider-
ing options and alternatives, says Schroer, are apt to suffer a
classic midlife career crisis, which can leave them without
motivation and unable to sell themselves effectively.

‘*The biggest mistake seniors make in their job search is
not knowing what they want,’’ says Cappeto. ‘‘Every study
shows that the incidence of job dissatisfaction is highest
among those people who really are not certain where they’re
headed.”’

One of the most popular of the seminars the career
development office offers each year is entitled ‘‘Exploring
Career Alternatives.’’ The sessions are built around assessment
devices developed at W&L to measure interests, values, and
abilities. The seminar makes use of the Strong-Campbell In-
terest Inventory in which students’ interests in a variety of
areas, analytical to interpersonal, are matched with the in-
terests required for particular careers.

Bill Bloom, a senior from Indian Head, Md., found that
seminar to be an eye-opener.

‘‘One of the careers in which my interests and abilities
were quite closely aligned was funeral director,’’ says Bloom.
‘‘When you first think of that, it seems a fairly odd match.
And yet, the career requires applying strong interpersonal
skills to a small business situation, and when you generalize
from that to other careers it makes sense.’’

Bloom’s is a fairly typical case, says Cappeto, who
observes that students’ preconceived notions of careers are
often misconceived.

One way to combat that problem is to bring the outside
world onto the campus more often. For the past several years
the career development and placement office has sponsored
sessions in which representatives from a variety of fields come
to the campus to talk about their profession with students,
quite simply to share with the students what it is they do. The
panels range from careers in banking to careers in health care;
the companies range from IBM to E.F. Hutton to the World
Bank.

4 W&L

The best resource for this element of career counseling is
the University’s own alumni. Tapping that resource in an ap-
propriate and effective manner is a primary goal these days.
Last fall the Alumni Board created a new committee that will
attempt to find ways in which alumni can assume a larger
role. Chester Smith, 753, is the chairman of that committee,
which begins meeting this winter.

‘‘T look upon the alumni as being a huge pool of talent
that can provide support,’’ says Smith. ‘‘The question that we
have to address at the outset is what support is in the best in-
terest of the University and the students and how do we take
that support and marshal it.’’

One obvious way is to create a network of career advisers.
‘‘No one here at Washington and Lee is going to pretend to
be an expert on what it’s like to be an investment banker,’’
says Cappeto. ‘‘We can tell students what it looks like from
the outside. Our professors do an excellent job in that regard.
But we do have alumni who are investment bankers, and they
can tell students what it’s like from the inside. Our students
need that kind of exposure, the ability to sit down over a cup
of coffee and find out what someone does. And they need
that experience before they’re seniors.”’

Alumni can—and do already—provide invaluable assistance
by providing opportunities for internships and summer
employment, both of which are major stepping stones in help-
ing students select the right career. ‘‘Those are areas—summer
jobs and internships—where we hope to involve our alumni
more,’’ says Schroer.

N otwithstanding the trend toward getting students to con-
sider their career plans earlier, seniors are still the most likely
to take advantage of the career development and placement
office’s services.

‘‘But we should not be seen as an employment agency,’’
says Cappeto. ‘‘Our purpose is not to get jobs for students.
Our purpose is to help students get jobs for themselves. I
think it is important for students to understand what is involv-
ed in the process of finding a job. There are some invaluable
lessons to be learned in that whole process—lessons about self-
reliance, lessons about how to analyze what it is you really
want to be doing.”’

Aside from the formal sessions that the placement office
sponsors, there is plenty of informal contact. Students drop in
to talk with one of the counselors or to use the library, which
contains self-help materials on job hunting, annual reports of
corporations, directories of job opportunities, graduate school
directories, and selected law and business school catalogues.

‘I’ve almost camped out in that office at times this year,’’
says Mike Tollison, a senior European history major from
Easley, S.C. ‘‘I’ve spent a lot of my time just reading the
material on various firms that I have already identified. It
gives me a better idea of what the career itself is about and
provides me with background on particular firms, so that
when I approach one of those firms about a job I can make it
clear that I haven’t just picked the name out of the phone
book, that I am genuinely interested in that firm.’’

The seminars and the individual preparation are conducted
primarily during the fall of a student’s senior year. The inter-
viewing process usually begins in the winter. A major em-
phasis in W&L’s placement operation recently has been to lure
more companies to the campus for interviews.

But, explains Cappeto, ‘‘our goal is not just to increase the
number of firms interviewing on campus but to improve the

 

 

 

 

 

Do These Sound Faniiliar?

At some point everyone faces the inevitable
job interview. How should you prepare? The
following list of 10 of the most frequently ask-
ed questions might help. These 10 are taken
from a longer list of 50, which is available from

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

&

Associate Dean of Students Anne Schroer counseling a Washington and Lee student

diversity of those firms. This year, for instance, the 50 com-
panies coming to the campus to interview students run the
gamut from major New York investment banks to the Peace
Corps.”’

Once the interviewers arrive, three-piece suits become the
uniform of the day around the University Center. And by
then, jobs are a constant topic among the seniors.

‘*Although the job market is something of a topic among
seniors in the fall, I know from past years that there is con-
siderable conversation about it in the spring,’’ says Chris
John, a senior public policy major from Lexington. ‘‘And
there’s some sense of competition among the seniors, too.”’

With that conversation and with that competition comes
concern. In some instances, that concern can turn to
something more akin to panic.

‘‘During the fall term I would guess that we saw about
half the senior class in various of our counseling sessions,’’
says Schroer. ‘‘Those are not the students whom I worry
about, because they are obviously taking a keen interest in the
process. There are others, however, who are likely to find it a
real struggle because they are putting it off.’’

Even those seniors who wait until the last minute are going
to find jobs, Cappeto vows. The difference is that they might
not find the right job, perhaps because they are not even cer-
tain what that right job is.

‘‘Another mistake students make is taking the first job that
comes along without considering whether it’s what they are
best suited for and will be happiest doing,’’ says Cappeto.

W&L’s Office of Career Development and
Placement.

4 1. What are your long-range and short-range
goals and objectives; when and why did you
establish these goals, and how are you
preparing yourself to achieve them?

2. What specific goals, other than those
related to your occupation, have you
established for yourself for the next 10
years?

3. What do you see yourself doing five years
from now?

4. What do you really want to do in life?

5. What are your long-range career objectives?

6. How do you plan to achieve your career
goals?

7. What are the most important rewards you
expect in your business career?

8. What do you expect to be earning in five
years?

9. Why did you choose the career for which
you are preparing?

10. Which is more important to you: the
money or the type of job?

 

 

‘*The whole process of looking for a job involves a series
of negotiations and compromises,’’ says Schroer. ‘‘Young peo-
ple are not set up for compromise, which makes it difficult
for them. But flexibility is a key factor.”’

At this stage, too, alumni are an invaluable resource. ‘‘If a
student is interested in retail marketing in, say, Atlanta, then
we can identify alumni in Atlanta for that student to con-
tact,’’ says Cappeto. ‘‘Some may be directly involved in the
career the student wants to pursue; others may simply be
aware of the business climate. What students can do is contact
those alumni and talk with them in general terms to begin the
process that is known as ‘networking’ in which the student
starts with one contact and expands the number of contacts
simply by gathering information.”’

Senior Hunt has made alumni a major part of his efforts,
from getting to know alumni who are investment bankers near
his home to sending his resume to alumni in other cities where
he would consider working.

‘‘Alumni may be my very best resource,’’ says Hunt.
‘*Although I don’t have any real way to compare what alumni
from other schools do, I have found that W&L alumni are
great for helping. It means something just to be able to get

your foot in the door some place. Alumni can give you a real
' edge.’

And as more and more college graduates enter the
marketplace, all of them trying to get someplace and more
than ever knowing where that someplace is, a little edge can
mean a lot.

W&L 5

Real-World Liberal Arts

 

Reflections on the W&L Experience

 

Recenuy. a student of mine asked, ‘‘Is
there value in a liberal arts education?”’
The question was a response to a request
for my writing classes to suggest topics of
interest to them. While most of the
students proposed issues of more portent,
such as divestiture of South African in-
vestments, rating rock-music lyrics, and
the treatment of AIDS patients, this stu-
dent found that question significant. It
made me think: How would I answer her
question myself? I am the proud
possessor of a liberal arts degree; many
of the people I know and work with are,
too. What is the value of a liberal arts
education? The real value, not the one
that says, ‘‘It teaches you to think.”’
This question, which makes me reflect
on my four years at Washington and
Lee, must also be of real concern to
every member of the school’s student
body, faculty, and administration.
W&L’s major purpose is to provide a
liberal education to some 1,000 young
people every year, and to graduate
several hundred products of that process
out into the world. I never had much
cause to doubt the value of my degree
over the years, though it never got me a
job or earned me a cent. It was simply
part of what I am. But what good did it
do me? Why am I better for having it?
Actually, in a way, I did question the
idea of liberal arts schooling while I was
still at college. One of my roommates, a
science major who wanted to be a doc-
tor, was frustrated because he was re-
quired to take a number of humanities
courses. He could not understand why he
had to dilute his scientific specialization
with useless classes in literature and
languages. He was not the least bit in-
terested in being ‘‘well-rounded’’; he was
going to be a scientist. I, on the other
hand, was equally frustrated because I

 

Richard E. Kramer teaches in New York
University’s undergraduate expository writing
program.

6 W&L

by Richard E. Kramer, ’69

 

 

Banking on the Liberal Arts

Michael Black is a French major who is planning a career in international business.

Mike Tollison is a European history major who is planning a career in retail
management.

Peter Hunt is an interdepartmental science major who plans a career in invest-
ment banking.

These three Washington and Lee seniors are banking on the liberal arts giving
them an edge when they enter the job market.

According to Michael Cappeto, director of W&L’s career development and place-
ment office, the liberal arts remain a good bet no matter what a student’s career orien-
tation is.

‘‘One of the false assumptions that we constantly try to correct is that taking
courses in the liberal arts is a waste of time,’’ says Cappeto. ‘‘Employers today are
looking for well-rounded individuals. Our advice is that a business major ought to
take, say, French just as French majors ought to take business. The general educa-
tion requirements that are part of the curriculum are forcing our students to become
well-rounded. Ultimately, that will definitely help them.”’

Cheryl Snyder is a regional personnel manager for NCR. She was a panelist for
Career Symposium II on the W&L campus last October. Snyder says there is a grow-
ing awareness on the part of employers about the particular skills that liberal arts
graduates can bring to a job.

‘*For one thing we find that someone grounded in the liberal arts does not come
out of school with the same biases toward a particular position as a student who has
focused more narrowly,’’ she says. ‘‘We need to be convinced that the analytical ability
is there, but I like the idea of hiring liberal arts people.’’

Before Anne Schroer joined the W&L administration this year as an associate
dean, she was involved in career counseling at Texas A&M University. In drawing
the inevitable comparison between her counseling at A&M and W&L, Schroer observes
that it was easy to convince prospective employers to come to College Station, Texas,
to interview aerospace engineers or other such specialists.

*‘On the other hand, liberal arts students at A&M were offered almost nothing
in placement services,’’ she says. ‘‘Liberal arts graduates may well find it a bit more
difficult to land the first job, but they have a broader foundation from which to spring.
They are often in the position of being able to move laterally and/or up without hav-
ing to return to school for additional training.’’

That is what Tollison, the European history major, likes to hear. ‘‘If anything,”’
he says, ‘‘I think my liberal arts background makes me even more marketable today.’’

 

 

was being forced by the same university
requirements to pick a major. I thought I
would be limited to taking the bulk of
my classes within one area, and that
rankled. I wanted to be free to wander
all through the catalogue. Fortunately, I
found a way to have my cake and eat it,
too. But what did my serendipity get me?

Looking back over the years since I
left W&L, I find that I have a peculiar
vantage point from which to judge the
value of what I received there. Not only
am I now both a student and a teacher,
which allows me to look, Janus-like, in
both directions, but my experiences cover
a rather broad spectrum. I have been

 

aa

=
atone re

 

 

 

able to test the worth of my liberal arts
background against a variety of
touchstones to see if it proved to be gold,
or so much intellectual dross. I am
satisfied it turned out to be the former.

My first experience of the world
beyond school was the Army where there
are three kinds of officers: academy
graduates, field commissions, and ROTC
graduates. ROTC officers like me com-
prised about 85 percent of the officer
corps at that time and most were prod-
ucts of non-military, liberal arts colleges.
It was my experience that most of these
officers, not having a ‘‘military mind,”’
approached their duties in a more human
and often more efficient way, treating
their subordinates as people who happen-
ed to be soldiers, rather than the reverse.
I noticed far less resentment and hostility
among enlisted men and women for this
kind of officer than for the martinets.
This observation received unlikely confir-
mation from a sergeant major who told
me he preferred to work for ROTC of-
ficers because they were more likely to
take time to observe the operation of a
unit to which they had been assigned,
and to work with the people rather than
issue orders from a training manual.

Out of the Army and studying acting
in New York, I found myself among peo-
ple with varied backgrounds. Many of
the young actors I studied with and
worked with had been theater majors in
college—some even as early as high
school. I invariably found these actors
limited not only in their artistic abilities,
but, more importantly, in their general
knowledge of literature, history,

philosophy, and science. This had two
repercussions in their work. First, they
had less factual knowledge on which to
draw when studying a role and, second,
they had a narrower basis for their ex-
perience of life—an experience that is ab-
solutely necessary for any artist. The best
actors I have worked with have all had
the most eclectic intellectual backgrounds,
though not all got them from college.

My own work as an actor and direc-
tor is riddled with incidents where I drew
on the most improbable knowledge. Ac-
tors without a broad background have to
acquire one on their own; those who
never do are severely limited in their
range and often produce shallow, super-
ficial characters. While a liberal arts
education cannot produce talent, ignorant
actors cannot make use of the talent they
have.

Back at school now, I find myself
again drawing on my liberal arts
background. My new department is eclec-
tic itself, a kind of sociological-
anthropological approach to perfor-
mance; my broad-based education,
filtered through my experiences in life
and theater, has again put me in a good
position. Without the accumulated
general knowledge built on my W&L
foundation, I would not be enjoying
myself so much, or doing nearly so well.

In conjunction with my studies I am
working in dramaturgy, a new theater
field in which the broadest base is the
most useful. The job of a dramaturg or
literary manager may include reading and
evaluating new plays; working with
playwrights to develop scripts; working

Associate Dean of Students
Michael Cappeto leads a
group Of W&L seniors in a

» seminar on career alternatives.

on translations and adaptations; writing
program notes; working with a director
to develop a cohesive production concept;
compiling historical, sociological,
cultural, and political data about a play’s
milieu; providing in-house criticism and
planning lobby displays. You do not get
the breadth of knowledge necessary to
fulfill that kind of job from a highly
specialized education.

While studying, I teach undergraduate
writing, though I neither studied nor
taught writing before 1983. On what ex-
perience do you suppose I drew? Further-
more, in one semester, I have led discus-
sions on Charles Darwin, Karl Marx, Sig-
mund Freud, Friedrich Nietzsche, and
Albert Camus. My students have written
papers on, to name just a few topics, the
creative impulse, Greek architecture,
sports, Protestant fundamentalists, com-
puter security, Soviet theater, and
euthanasia. Without a liberal arts
background, I could never judge the
work of my student writers—I would not
be able to understand what any of them
was talking about.

Soldier, actor, director, dramaturg,
student, teacher: in all these capacities,
and several shorter-lived ones as well, I
could not have gotten by without the
broad, general background of the liberal
arts education. Whatever little success I
made of my life, it all comes from that.
Forced to think about it, I am mighty
glad I took the path I did at Washington
and Lee. In this overspecialized, narrow-
based world, a liberal education
humanizes us.

W&L ?

   

 

 

This watercolor of the proposed design of Lee Chapel
was done in 1922 by B.C. Flournoy, an 1897
graduate of Washington and Lee and a partner in
Flournoy & Flournoy, an architectural firm that of-
fered proposals to double the size of the chapel, yet
preserve the earlier structure shown in the inset as it
exists today.

W&L

 

 

The Lee Chapel Wars

 

From Homely Chapel to Shrine of the South

 

by Pamela Hemenway Simpson

66

Tie South has but one Lee and that Lee has but one
tomb—that enclosed in the small brick mausoleum constructed
against the rear wall of the Washington and Lee Chapel.’’

Thus began a 1922 editorial in the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot.
The editorial went on to criticize the University’s plans for
enlarging the chapel. But in this simple juxtaposition of Lee,
tomb, and chapel we have the elements of the making of a
shrine.

How did this relatively unassuming brick chapel become
hallowed ground? It happened largely as a result of the events
of 1922 that have since become known as the ‘‘Great Lee
Chapel Controversy.”’

It all started when Washington and Lee President Henry
Louis Smith unveiled a plan to create a new memorial chapel
to Lee. President Smith and the Board of Trustees had
secured a promise from the United Daughters of the Con-
federacy to give $100,000 to ‘‘reconstruct’’ the chapel, pre-
serving the memorial statue, mausoleum, and Lee’s basement
office, but essentially replacing the old Romanesque building
with a grand new one of Neo-Georgian design. The Universi-
ty’s architects, Flournoy and Flournoy of Washington, D.C.,
had been asked to prepare a scheme that would create a large,
1,200-seat auditorium housed in a building that would be
more fitting as a memorial—and would also be more in sym-
pathy with the Greek Revival colonnade.

Armed with the drawings and the UDC’s promise of sup-
port, President Smith enthusiastically announced the plans as
the great event of 1922 and launched a fund-raising campaign
to bring it all about. But much to his dismay, he met with a
steadily rising tide of opposition.

Trouble began when several Daughters of the Confederacy
in Lexington suddenly became determined to block the plans
for the chapel. President Smith wrote to a friend in hurt
bewilderment, ‘‘They have called a meeting, passed a resolu-
tion and have gotten the editor of the local paper to take the
leadership in the movement. They have sent his editorial and
their resolution to every chapter of the UDC in the United
States!’

The Rector of the Board also expressed surprise at the sud-
den insurrection. He wrote to a fellow Trustee, ‘‘Out of some
hallucination, a baker’s dozen or less of otherwise attractive
local women have undertaken to stop the proposal to enlarge
the chapel.”’

The national organization of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy may have supported the idea of a
‘‘reconstructed’’ chapel, but the Lexington Mary Custis Lee

 

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, professor of art history at Washington
and Lee, has also served as associate dean of the College.

Chapter was horrified by the proposed destruction of “‘such a
hallowed spot.’’ They organized and gained the support of the
Virginia State UDC. The battle ranks were formed.

For a year and a half, the two sides fought a bitter cam-
paign consisting of letter-writing, newspaper editorials, printed
pamphlets, and endless incidents of personal politicking.
Those in authority at the University could not understand why
this ‘‘little group of willful women’’ was behaving in such a
way. The women used every argument in the arsenal, declaring
that the chapel was ‘‘a most holy possession’’ whose ‘‘sacred
atmosphere’’ had been created by tradition. ‘‘Spare, keep and
guard the chapel,’’ wrote Mary Lee, wife of the General’s
grandson. ‘‘For in spite of Dr. Smith, the chapel is the shrine
and not the tomb and mausoleum alone.”’

Herein lies the key to the entire controversy. President
Smith and the Trustees felt that there was nothing special
about the chapel itself. The tomb and mausoleum were
venerated, but they thought of the chapel as nothing more
than an eyesore. They pointed to evidence that during the
later years of the 19th century, this opinion of the building
had been shared by many. John Glenn, who had attended the
University from 1877 to 1879, supported Smith’s views, and
wrote that he did not recall anyone ever calling the building
‘Lee Chapel.’’ Nor did he remember ‘‘anyone in Lexington’’
looking upon the chapel with any special veneration. He fur-
ther referred to the chapel as an ‘‘exceedingly unattractive
brick building’’ which was ‘‘entirely out of harmony with the
old buildings of the University.”’

Smith also culled the University records to show that in
1908, during the centennial celebration of Lee’s birth, the Lee
Memorial Association had broached the subject of improving
the chapel building. In that year, visiting dignitary Charles
Francis Adams had remarked to a companion upon leaving
the chapel, ‘‘The only reproach to General Lee’s memory is
this chapel which he allowed to deface his campus,’’. Lee’s
son, G. W. Custis Lee, had been consulted about the family’s
feelings on the matter and had replied, ‘‘There will be no ob-
jection, I am sure, on the part of any member of General
Lee’s family to anything the authorities may decide to do to
the chapel.’’

That may have been the case in 1908, but now that the
chapel was threatened with destruction, the associations with
Lee were transferred to the building itself. ‘‘This little chapel
represents a period in which General Lee lived in Lexington,’
wrote the president of the Association for the Preservation of
Virginia Antiquities. ‘‘It represents the courage, fortitude, en-

. durance of the South’s greatest hero, General Lee, who was

the designer and practically the builder.”’

The persistent belief that Lee actually designed the chapel
may have come from these 1922 arguments, which tried to
associate him with the chapel in every way possible. The presi-

W&L 9

 

 

A Pins

 

 

 

MNT a yEresg, eae :

 

% : 2
jie 5» Aca om te pang I

 

i tea tiie syst sept onsets cy Sy
%, hy te

 

 

 

  

 

ERT ee TERI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The interior of the Lee Chapel would
have taken on a vastly different ap-
pearance (above) than it currently has if
the Board of Trustees had been suc-
cessful in its effort to redesign the
building.

dent of the Virginia UDC claimed that ‘‘Lee Chapel is more
identified with General Lee than any other building in the
world. It was built through his efforts, under his supervision,
with the gifts of an impoverished people. Lee worshipped
there daily.”’

Actually, the question of who designed the chapel has
never been totally resolved. It was built in 1866, at Lee’s sug-
gestion, in order to meet the needs of an expanded student
body. The Board of Trustees’ minutes approving the proposal
had referred to a ‘‘plan prepared by President Lee.’’ There is
also evidence to suggest that Custis Lee, who was teaching at
Virginia Military Institute at the time, may have had a hand
in the planning. In 1909, Custis Lee wrote to a friend that the
chapel’s design had come ‘‘out of a book.’’ Running counter
to this evidence is a letter that a VMI engineering professor
named Thomas H. Williamson wrote to his daughter in 1866:
‘*! have been thrown a good deal with General Lee lately. The
Buildings Committee at the College got me to design the new
chapel... and I have made all the working drawings and

10 W&L

 

written all the specifications, all of which had to confer with
the General and explain to him.”’

President Smith did not know about this letter, but he did
find a former student, John Alexander Lacy, who was willing
to swear that when he had been at the college in 1866, it was
common knowledge that because there was not enough money
to pay an architect, Professor Williamson had been asked to
do the design.

From a historical point of view it seems most likely that
Williamson was the designer. He was an accomplished
engineer who had introduced a course on architecture at VMI
in 1848 and had even written the textbook for the class. He
probably did use a book as a source for the design, as Custis
Lee claimed. This was common practice at the time.

But historical facts aside, the 1922 propaganda tied Lee’s
name so strongly to the building that even today it is thought
by many to have been designed by him.

The UDC members were not the only ones to evoke Lee’s
name in support of their arguments. President Smith and the

 

 

 

 

A B.C. Flournoy watercolor rendering for the ‘‘Lee Memorial Auditorium.”’

Trustees spoke of their ‘‘sacred trust’’ to create a building
that would have architectural dignity worthy of Lee’s memory.
They claimed that Lee’s spirit was present in the University he
had created, and not in the actual bricks of what was clearly
an ugly building. In a published booklet the University
authorities claimed: ‘‘The little chapel was erected during a
period when American architecture had reached its lowest ebb
and although those who have seen the building all their lives
have, of course, learned to love and venerate it, almost all
strangers, contrasting the lofty grandeur of the statue with the
homeliness of the Chapel front and its ludicrous tower, ex-
press a sense of surprise and depression.”’

The UDC women agreed that the Chapel was ‘‘very simple
and not of the highest form of architecture,’’ but it was
nonetheless ‘‘filled with memories of Lee’s last years.’’ Saying
it was ugly had as much effect as ‘‘criticism made to a man
about his mother’s countenance.’’ The chapel might be hum-
ble, but that was no reason to destroy it.

After a year of rising controversy and a debate that Presi-
dent Smith characterized as having ‘‘depths of falsehood and
personal hostility,’’ he felt that compromise was necessary if
the project were to move ahead. On inspiration he went to
Boston where he consulted for three hours with leading ar-
chitect Ralph Adams Cram. The two developed an idea for
leaving the chapel intact and constructing a new building at its
rear, taking down the back wall of the mausoleum to open the
Statue vault to view.

Smith quickly got his architect, Flournoy, to develop the
idea, and the two further consulted with Fisk Kimball, head
of the architecture school at the University of Virginia. They
also brought in the well-known Olmsted Brothers Company to
discuss the landscaping and had the whole scheme vetted by
the National Fine Arts Commission.

Smith thought he had covered all his bases, but he had
not consulted the ladies. They were not appeased. They
reiterated their demand that the chapel not be changed in any
way. They pointed out that the new modern addition would

‘‘mar the dignity and tragically impair the historic and inspira-
tional service of the chapel as it is and as it was when General
Lee worshipped and presided within its sacred precinct.”’

Finally, Smith and his Trustees admitted defeat. They took
the $6,000 that had been raised and spent it on fireproofing
the building. Thus, Lee Chapel was left unchanged. But it
gained something in the controversy. It had become the focal
point of Lee veneration. No other place would be as closely
linked with Robert E. Lee as this chapel—not the campus
home where he lived and died, not his boyhood home in
Arlington, not the house in Richmond where he lived
immediately after the war.

Lee Chapel was the ‘‘Shrine of the South.’’ Every year
more and more visitors come to walk through the chapel.
Why? Part of the answer has to do with Lee himself—a man
whose nobility in victory and defeat was such that more than
any other Confederate personage he is admired by all sides.
But part of the answer lies in his historical association with
reconstruction. The chapel represents not the ‘‘Lost Cause,”’
not ‘‘defeat,’’ but new beginnings. It embodies Lee’s hopes
and efforts to rebuild his homeland through educating the
region’s youth.

In 1962, Lee Chapel was restored by a grant from the
Ford Motor Company. Steel beams replaced a sagging roof.
Air-conditioning and a modern sprinkler system were installed.
The art collection was placed in a newly renovated lower level.
Today, more than 50,000 visitors come each year to see this
‘“priceless spiritual and historical possession,’’ this ‘‘Shrine of
the South.”’

 

The quoted material is taken from papers preserved in the Washington

; and Lee University Library’s Special Collections. While the Universi-

ty’s side of the controversy has been well-documented through letters
and pamphlets, information about the UDC’s role has only recently

become available to researchers through the generous gift of the Ann
Norvell Otey Scott papers, which were presented to Washington and
Lee in 1985 by her granddaughter, Anne Scott Farrar.

W&L_ 11

 

One of the numerous pieces of sculpture that populate Washington

Guns Along the Potomac

 

Rep. G. William Whitehurst Is Leaving Washington with a Bang

 

by Robert Fure

WY Assen ae green man on a green horse.

Look around as you travel along the streets of
Washington, D.C., and surely you’ll find one, some figure
who in all kinds of weather waits with his sword above a
street corner or park or little circle of grass amidst noisy
avenues, a solitary green man on a glorious green horse, gaz-
ing across the city, aloof, resolute, and in a posture of imper-
turbable dignity, ready.

When Charley McDowell, ’48, the Washington-based col-
umnist of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, muses on the
abiding presence of Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln in the
nation’s capital, he could easily throw in a brigade of bronze
Union generals, a gallery of poets and Indians, and a virtual
senate of those massive classical figures in stone who stand
impassively for justice, liberty, or industry. They’re all here,
unavoidable, inescapable presences. Never mind what they
stand for; as McDowell would say, ‘‘they’re just here,’’ the
household gods of the Republic, imperious in their monumen-
tal stillness, and vigilant.

Take away the traffic, the bureaucrats, the lobbyists and
their quarry, and Washington is quintessentially a memorial
city. Celebration stone is everywhere. The Capitol itself has an
entire room devoted to it. The Sculpture Gallery accom-
modates several of the scores of statuary commissioned by the

 

This is one in a series of stories about Washington and Lee alumni
who live and work in Washington, D.C.

12 W&L

states to memorialize their local heroes—each state was invited
to submit two. So now they just stand around, larger than life
and a little cramped, looking down on the tourists. Those that
don’t qualify for the gallery are relegated to the Capitol’s
basement corridors, where they glower and pontificate, as if
rehearsing for another tryout.

Even the exterior of the Capitol presents a dense popula-
tion of statues. The porticoes of each house of Congress
resemble crowded tenements. The great dome itself is sur-
mounted by a statue, a woman in baggy drapery representing
Freedom, armed with a sword and shield and wearing an
astonishing helmet topped with an eagle’s head and feathers.
It was cast in bronze in 1863, ironically by slave labor.

Most federal buildings in fact have some sort of guards-
man in stone or bronze. Outside the Rayburn House Office
Building, flanking the Independence Avenue entrance, sit two
immensely unamused figures in marble, the Majesty of Law
and the Spirit of Justice. They are positively Egyptian in their
enormity and balance. It is said that they lend dignity to an
otherwise odd, poorly designed building, one that combines,
haphazardly, elements of modern and neoclassical architecture.
Be that as it may, they have little to do with the Rayburn
Building’s interior. The actual offices of the House of
Representatives defy the dreary regulation of ceremony and
order. In fact, as you get closer to those occupied by U.S.
Rep. G. William Whitehurst, the place begins to seem even
rather lively.

 

 

G. William Whitehurst, ’50

T. nine-term Republican from
Virginia’s second district has one of the
best views of the Capitol. It comes with
seniority. He could have an even better
one, he claims, but then he doesn’t spend
much time looking out the window.
There’s too much on his desk.

In fact, Bill Whitehurst never has
much cared about traditional routes for
political advancement. To begin with, he
arrived in Congress without having served
any normal political apprenticeship. He
wasn’t even very political. At the time of
his first election in 1968 he was dean of
students at Norfolk’s Old Dominion
University. Weekend stints as commen-
tator at a local television station (Dr.
Whitehurst Reports) had made the wavy-
haired history professor at least
recognizable in the Tidewater area. But,
when he finally agreed to serve sas the
Republican candidate, by no means was
he a favorite in the traditionally |
Democratic district. Then the Democrats
got to fighting among themselves and
Whitehurst, with the help of conservative
Democrats, soon found himself in
Washington.

‘‘When I got here, being a total
neophyte was probably a good thing. |
didn’t have any preconceived ideas about
Congress. So I went around and spoke to
the old-timers, asking how they did this
and that. I decided that one thing I could
do was to go home and really make
myself indispensable to people as an
ombudsman.”’

Whitehurst, now the senior
Republican in Virginia’s congressional
delegation, recounts how hard he worked
as a freshman representative in
establishing a loyal and responsive constit-
uency. ‘‘I put out a newsletter and turn-
eddown no speaking engagement,
whether it was an Eagle Scout ceremony
or a Rotary Club banquet. My wife,
Janie, began to work side by side with
me—our children were grown; our son
Cal (’71) was at W&L at the time. Pretty
soon all our constituents realized that we
were here to serve their interests.”’

Whitehurst reflects for a moment,
then resumes with his quick, winning
smile: ‘‘And the other thing was the
Democrats kept running liberals against
me.’’ They stopped altogether after a
fourth try. Since 1976, Whitehurst has
run unopposed.

No one doubts that Bill Whitehurst
has been a good congressman for his

 

neighborhood in Virginia. A moderate
conservative, by his own description,
strong on defense, Whitehurst got himself
appointed to the House. Armed Services
Committee and is now its second-ranking
Republican. This has brought endless
good fortune to the vast military-
industrial complex in his district.
Whitehurst’s press aides list as his top
legislative accomplishment ‘‘$1.23 billion
for military construction in Virginia dur-
ing the last 10 years—about half of the
money appropriated for Virginia has been
used for Navy construction in
Tidewater.’’ Fully two thirds of the re-
maining items on the list have direct
bearing on the dozen military facilities
and general economic development of his
Norfolk-Virginia Beach constituency.

But it would be unfair to characterize
Whitehurst as a mere errand boy for his
district’s special interests. A good part of
his time has gone to the unspectacular
problems of ordinary folks: lost Social
Security checks, visas, passports, juvenile
delinquency counseling, federal jobs for
his constituents, and, of course, the Nor-
folk Zoo—Whitehurst, sponsored the
Animal Welfare Act that was passed in
1970.

Congressional colleagues in both
houses and on both sides of the aisle

 G. William Whitehurst
is now the senior
Republican in
Virginia’s congressional
delegation.

have found him able and fair. In 1981,
Whitehurst teamed up with liberal
Democratic Senator Gary Hart in foun-
ding the Military Reform Caucus. The
caucus consists of about 50 members of
Congress of varying political viewpoints
who worry that the Pentagon places
bureaucratic politics above strategic con-
cerns. Whitehurst was chairman of the
caucus during the 97th Congress.

Much of his bipartisan work these
days concerns reform of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, reform that former members of
the Joint Chiefs have themselves ad-
vocated. Whitehurst, speaking in his
rapid, seamless baritone, argues matter-
of-factly that rivalry among the military
branches is often counterproductive, that
it leads to costly duplication of weapons
systems and foolish haggling over budget
allocations. ‘‘In fact we want to make
the JCS a more effective advisory body
to the Defense Department. Recent
Defense Department secretaries have
begun simply to ignore them, and that’s
a terrible waste of what should and can
be valuable expertise.’’ Charges that
Whitehurst and his congressional allies
want to emasculate the Joint Chiefs
are—to use his favorite epithet—pure
‘*horsefeathers.’’

W&L 13

 

So for 17 years Bill Whitehurst has
been in there pitching for the folks back
home. With the good help of his full-
time unpaid legislative assistant, his wife
Janie, he’s had time for a few special
projects as well. Though high on the

House seniority roster and a champion of |

a strong national defense, he has not
sought any political limelight nor any
higher political office. Friends have urged
him to run for the Senate and fellow
Republicans have occasionally chafed at
his well-meaning bipartisanship, but
Whitehurst has stuck to his guns.

Then, last February, Bill Whitehurst
announced his plans to retire at the end
of the 1986 session. ‘‘Guns,’’ did you
say?

W  pitenurst has mused that con-
gressmen are a forgettable lot. But fate
seems to be conspiring to make Bill
Whitehurst memorable, at least for the
short term. It all has to do with guns—
the National Rifle Association and gun-
control legislation. The eminently
reasonable, upbeat, and unabrasive
Whitehurst is apparently going to go out
with a bang.

It all began two years ago when
Whitehurst co-sponsored a bill with Rep.
Marion Biaggi (D-N.Y.) to ban the sale
of bullets that can penetrate bulletproof
vests, a measure aimed at protecting
police officers.

‘It seemed reasonable. I’m a law-and-
order man, for heaven’s sake—I’m no
liberal flake. I said to myself, ‘This
seems sensible, let’s get on it.’ ”’
Whitehurst leans forward, his high
forehead creasing into deep, neatly spac-
ed furrows. ‘‘Well, the National Rifle
Association finds out about it and within
a few weeks I begin getting angry letters
from my constituents.

“I was just thunderstruck. I wrote
back to them and asked, ‘What on earth
can you complain about—what possible
use do you have for armor-penetrating
bullets?’ Then of course they said that
this is the first step toward banning all
handguns. I wrote back saying that this
was patently absurd. Police officers are
under the gun every day. If we can do
anything to protect them then we ought
to do it.

‘“*T really got mad about it because the
NRA’s position was so totally
unreasonable.’’ Whitehurst adjusts his
tie. ‘“You know, we get jerked around up
here a lot by various lobbying groups. In-
deed one of the more unfortunate aspects

14 W&L

 

‘*Police officers are under
the gun every day. If we

can do anything to protect
them then we ought to do

it 99

 

of staying here has been the increasing
stridency of these groups in attempting to
bend you to their will. It really frosts
you.”’

Whitehurst, peppery and extroverted,
frosts more easily than he bends. ‘‘Let
me make something clear: I’m for the
death penalty. I’m not against people
Owning guns; if you want to keep a
handgun to protect your house or
whatever, fine. All I’m saying is, for
heaven’s sake, let’s have some minimum
controls because people are going
bananas out there.’’

Recently, Whitehurst has signed on to
new legislation introduced by Rep. Peter
Rodino (D-N.J.) designed to require
uniform gun laws across the country and
a 15-day waiting period to check a
customer’s background for a criminal
record or mental problems. Whitehurst’s
advocacy of the bill has led him to testify
on its behalf before the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Crime.

More recently, Whitehurst fired off a
letter.to Newsweek charging that
‘|. . the well-financed gun lobby has
been able to aim its narrow appeal
against every reasonable piece of law-
enforcement legislation that so much as
hints at bringing America’s gun anarchy
under control.’’ The NRA was not amus-
ed, observing cynically that the
outspokenness of Whitehurst’s position
was due entirely to his decision not to
run for reelection.

‘*Horsefeathers!’’ says Whitehurst,
though he does acknowledge that his im-
pending retirement has at last relieved
him of the anxieties so easily stirred by
such groups as the NRA. But his jaw is
set, and his conviction remains inspired
by numerous expressions of support,
among them a letter of encouragement
from Sarah Brady, wife of Jim Brady,
who was seriously wounded in the ‘‘un-
controlled handgun’’ attempt on Presi-
dent Reagan’s life.

S, with a few parting shots Bill
Whitehurst will ride out of town later
this year. He insists quite happily that

he’s looking forward to it.

‘*The time has come to smell the
roses. I’m 60, confound it! My health is
good, I’m mentally alert, but I know
how old I am. I don’t want to think
about leaving here when I, you know,
Start to fold up a little bit.

‘And the other reason is that, heck,
everything has gone by so quickly here. I
want some time to sit back, reflect, and
do some serious writing.’’ Whitehurst will
be able to do just that by assuming a
recently established professorship at Old
Dominion, where he’ll do some light
teaching and work on the second volume
of his Diary of a Congressman. The first
volume, with a forward by W&L
classmate Senator John Warner, was
published in 1983.

Will he miss Washington? ‘‘No,’’ he
says emphatically. ‘‘I don’t have
Potomac fever. No. What’s a cocktail
party, for crying out loud? Yes, I'll miss
some of the friends we’ve made here, and
it’s a thrill to go to the White House.
But that’s just gingerbread—that’s not
what life is all about. The rest of it here
you can have: late hours, wrangling,
frustration. The fact of the matter is that
I’m just damn tired of other people’s
problems. I go home and spend most of
my time mopping up blood!”’’

So Whitehurst will be a teacher again,
and in that regard he’ll remember the one
teacher who he claims had the most pro-
found impact on his life—W&L history
professor emeritus William Jenks.
Whitehurst recalls those days, some 40
years ago, warmly.

‘It was just after I had gotten out of
the Navy after the war. I went to W&L
thinking that I was going to be a jour-
nalism major because I thought I wanted
to write. In my second semester I took a
course from Bill Jenks. I just absolutely
worshiped the guy. My grades were good
enough to sustain the ambition, and
history was a subject I had always loved,
so I decided then and there that I would
become a history teacher.’’

After he received his master of arts in
history from the University of Virginia in
1951, Whitehurst joined the faculty at
Old Dominion. Ten years later he earned
his doctorate in American diplomatic
history from West Virginia University.
Then the job as dean and the rest is
history.

He has given his papers to W&L, but
he’s not done yet. If anybody wants to
make a monument out of Bill
Whitehurst, it will take more than the
NRA to make him stand still.

A Record Season

 

Kevin Weaver Runs Away with Football Honors

 

Danie: Weaver ran down the damp
bleachers and across the soggy cinders as
the final seconds ticked off the Wilson
Field scoreboard clock.

Weaver arrived on the waterlogged
playing surface just in time to catch his
son Kevin, who leaped into his father’s
arms and was bounced in the air like a
baby—no mean feat when you consider
the younger Weaver carries 205 muscular
pounds on his 6-3 frame.

Even from a distance, the thick veins
running across Kevin Wayne Weaver’s

 

°Fall sports results are in the Generals’
Report on page 27.

 

mud-caked forearms were visible and his
whoops of joy were audible. On that
otherwise dreary autumn afternoon of
November 16, the junior tailback from
Martinsburg, W.Va., had broken
Washington and Lee’s single-season
rushing record by gaining 207 yards
against Washington University of St.
Louis for an eight-game total of 1,161.
He had also scored two touchdowns to
increase his single-season scoring record
to 110 points.

The two Weavers, father and son, had
much to celebrate throughout this past
fall. In addition to setting four major
school records, Weaver was named the
state’s top player from Divisions II and
III by the Richmond Touchdown Club,
was voted to the second team of the
Roanoke Times & World-News all-state
team, and was honorable mention on the
Associated Press Little All-America team.

He was also selected Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Player of the Year
and was profiled in the Washington Post
sports section.

The NCAA’s final Division III
Statistics showed him leading all
rushers—including Plymouth (N.H.)

 

Steven Pockrass, a junior from Indianapolis,
originally wrote this story for The Ring-tum
Phi.

by Steven Pockrass, ’87

 

Weaver

State’s Joe Dudek—with 145.1 yards per
game.

The comparison with Dudek helps put
Weaver’s season in perspective. Dudek
set an NCAA record this fall with his
79th career touchdown, and his 5,570
rushing yards in four years is a Division
III record. Moreover, Dudek was Sports
Illustrated magazine’s candidate for the
1985 Heisman Trophy and finished ninth
in balloting for that prestigious award,
which was won by Auburn running back
Bo Jackson.

Clearly, Dudek is one of the most
celebrated Division III players in recent
years. And yet Weaver outdistanced
Dudek in yards per game and also placed
third in Division III scoring with 13.8
points per game. Weaver is not one to
brag, however, choosing instead to save
his praise for others.

Weaver reserves the lion’s share of
that praise for his father, a veteran
General Motors supervisor who turned

down a semi-professional football con-
tract while enlisted in the Air Force
because it would have meant risking his
military career.

‘‘My father is my biggest fan, critic,
friend,’’ says Weaver. ‘‘Everything I’ve
ever done, I owe to him.’’

Weaver is very close to his parents,
Daniel and Mildred, and to his 12-year-
old sister Pamela, who is trying to
emulate her brother. Pamela plays
basketball, is considering a career in
medicine, and wants to follow her
brother to Washington and Lee.

‘*It’s almost as if W&L is going to
become a family tradition,’’ says Daniel
Weaver.

K.in Weaver was seven when his
father began coaching him in football.

‘‘Some of the people I was working
with thought I drove him too hard,’’ says
Daniel Weaver who has always pushed
his son to set high, yet attainable, goals.
‘‘l drove him because he had the poten-
tial. He had to be challenged.”’

The elder Weaver drilled his son’s
midget league team in the basics during
practices and told the players to do their
best in the games. That team gave up
only one touchdown and did not lose a
game in the two years that he coached.

And, says Daniel Weaver, every
member of the team’s offensive backfield
is now playing college football.

Despite this athletic success, the
younger Weaver says his father has
always stressed that academics are the
first priority. A chemistry major and
ROTC scholarship recipient whose sights
are set on medical school, Weaver jug-
gled 24 hours of classes and labs along
with football this season. He committed
additional time to the Rangers, an elite
group of military science students.

Schedule conflicts forced him to miss
10 of the football team’s 18 practice
hours per week. Washington and Lee
coach Gary Fallon says he was worried
that the lack of practice time could lead

W&L 15

 

to an injury or unfamiliarity with the of-
fensive plays.

But Weaver managed to keep himself
in strong physical shape and learned the
plays on his own to compensate for the
missed practice. Although his heavy
workload limited his social life to perhaps
one movie a week during football season,
Weaver says he did not feel pressure to
cut back.

‘*T had to do it in high school,’’ he
says. ‘“‘It was just a matter of carrying
the load all over again.’’

As a senior at Martinsburg High
School, he was an all-conference player
both offensively and defensively, an all-
state linebacker, student body president,
and a member of the traveling school
chorus. College football and a medical
career have long been goals.

‘‘! wanted to do both, so I did both
—and I’m doing both,’’ he says with
quiet determination.

This mix of confidence, hard work,
humility, and desire has earned the soft-
spoken Weaver praise and respect both
on and off the football field.

‘*The thing that’s most impressive is
his attitude,’’ says Lt. Col. Luke
Ferguson, professor of military science at
WAL. ‘‘He has a go-getter’s attitude.
He’s always ‘up.’ ”’

‘*The other players respect him not
only as a fine athlete, but as a person
and a leader,’’ says Fallon, who guided
W&L to its sixth straight winning season
(7-2) and a share of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title.

‘*He’s confident, but he’s not cocky,’’
says W&L teammate Bobby Wilson, who
was elected a tri-captain for the 1986
squad along with Weaver and defensive
end Jim Murphy.

Wilson, who played in the same
backfield with Weaver at Martinsville
High School, says he thinks there are
such positive feelings toward the W&L
star tailback because Weaver is so quick
to credit others.

‘“*I’ve never heard him talk about his
own accomplishments,’’ says Wilson.

For instance, Weaver attributed much
of his own success this past fall to the
blocking of senior fullback Frank Surface

 

 

Weaver celebrates one of the touchdowns during his record-shattering season.

16 W&L

and a maturing offensive line that will
lose only one player to graduation.

Fallon had planned to employ a pass-
oriented offense this season. But when
opposing defenses began multiple
coverage of W&L’s receivers on both
ends, the Generals began to emphasize
the running game, using Surface and
Weaver to average 178 yards a game on
the ground.

As Weaver began compiling rushing
Statistics that put his name in the USA

Today scoreboard, opponents started key-

ing on him, and the Generals were forced
to open up the passing attack again. But
that didn’t ground No. 40, who began
rushing for even more yardage.

Weaver says the added pressure only
caused him to play harder. He scored a
W&L single-game record five touchdowns
in the Generals’ win over Hampden-
Sydney and set another record the follow-
ing week with 225 yards against the
University of the South.

Daniel Weaver says that his son did
call home once during the season to say
that he was having trouble coping with

 

————

the attention he was receiving. The father
told his son just to work toward the
goals he had set for himself.

‘‘We keep the lines of communication
open to him,”’ says the elder Weaver,
who has told his son that ‘‘if you need
me there, call me and I’ll be on the
road.”’

Weaver’s father has been to every
W&L home football game and all but
five away games during Kevin’s college
career. He said the mixture of pride, ex-
hilaration, and love he gains while watch-
ing his son is well worth the 22-hour
drive from Martinsburg.

His father is particularly proud that
his son has not allowed all the
achievements and accolades to change his
perspective.

Fallon, too, says that Weaver’s suc-
cess did not alter his basic orientation as
a team player. In fact, when he was nam-
ed ODAC Player of the Year, Weaver
told the coach that he was disappointed
because only one of the Generals’ offen-
sive linemen, tackle John Packet, had
been named to the all-ODAC first team.

‘If the team is doing well, I’m hap-
py,’’ says Weaver, whose friendly
disposition on the campus belies his
reputation on the field where he routinely
drags would-be tacklers for extra
yardage.

Actually, Weaver’s running style is
geared primarily to his ability to fake and
cut, making him particularly effective on
sweeps when he was routinely escorted
around the corner by the blocking of
fullback Surface. In that respect, his style
differs from that of his father, who car-
ried a solid 215 pounds on a 6-0 frame
while a fullback in the Air Force.

‘‘My style was if the hole opens, go
through it,’ Daniel Weaver says.

Kain Weaver is strong (he has bench-
pressed 300 pounds) and fast (he has run
the 40-yard dash in 4.58 seconds). His
athletic ability originally caught the eye
of coaches at Division I-AA James
Madison University. In fact, Weaver had
once planned to play linebacker for the
Harrisonburg, Va., school. But when two
players who were not expected to enroll
there accepted scholarships, Weaver’s
scholarship offer was withdrawn.

Since he was not offered scholarships
by any Division I schools, Weaver says
he based his decision on where he would
receive the best education.

It was apparent early in his W&L
career that the decision was a particularly
good one for the Generals. In only his

fourth college game, Weaver established
a new W&L record—and tied the Divi-
sion III mark—with a 100-yard kickoff
return. He was the only freshman letter-
winner on offense that year.

As a sophomore he played tailback on
offense and linebacker on defense and
was one of the key members of the
Generals’ kickoff coverage team. This
past fall he was used almost exclusively
on offense.

Although professional football is a
longshot, a Pittsburgh Steelers scout did
watch Weaver during a practice when he
was a sophomore and complimented him
on his play.

Fallon, himself a former professional
player, says the possibility is there but
quickly adds that ‘‘the competition is just
phenomenal. He would really have to
stand out on the Division III level.’’

Weaver’s current plans are to enter
medical school, fulfili his military obliga-
tions, and practice orthopedic surgery.
But he readily acknowledges that ‘‘if they

 

Daniel Weaver con-
gratulates his son
(above). Kevin does
the carving honors
for teammates at
Thanksgiving
(below).

<a

[the pros] would have me, I’d definitely
pi":

But father and son agree that gradua-
tion is the primary goal. ‘‘A well-placed
hit could take his football away from
him,’’ says the elder Weaver. ‘‘He has to
have something in his life to fill in for
that.”’

A minor injury—cartilage damage to
his left knee—did keep Weaver out of the
Generals’ season opener last fall. Weaver
says that was the toughest game of the
season for him, because he had to watch
from the sidelines as the Generals lost,
30-0, to Emory and Henry.

W&L had an open date the following
Saturday, and Fallon thinks the extra
week of rest was to Weaver’s advantage.
Weaver started each of the remaining
eight games and rushed for more than
100 yards in every one, surpassing 200 on
two occasions.

With statistics like those, Fallon
thinks Weaver is fully recovered, adding
with a smile: ‘‘If he isn’t, then I can’t
wait for him to get healthy.’

W&L 17

Jerry Darrell and Chef Charles Dunn with a sampling of the Thanksgiving dinner Feast

18 W&L

 

An

Appetite
or Success

 

Jerry Darrell’s Recipe
For Keeping W&L Fed

 

by Brian D. Shaw

i eee Darrell is sitting in his small of-
fice off the main room of the Letitia
Pate Evans Dining Hall at Washington
and Lee. The quiet, unobtrusive sound of
people working seems distant, but is only
a few feet away. Glasses clink, silverware
hits the tables, snatches of conversations
begin to emerge.

As he speaks, Darrell is oblivious to
the muffled noise. It is as if the bustle of
final late-afternoon preparations for the
evening meal has become melded to his
subconscious. After 16 years as director
of food services, the sounds are more
than routine. They are part of life.

But there is a palpable edge of an-
ticipation this day. Preparations are
underway for another Jerry Darrell
Special Holiday Feast. It is one of the
last days before fall term exams and Dar-
rell has put together a Christmas meal
more likely to be served at a five-star
resort than a university’s dining hall.

Consider this menu: seafood bisque,
steamship round of beef, fried chicken,
country ham, shrimp, yams, vegetables,

 

Evans Dining Hall in a festive mood

congealed salad, fruit, carrot cake,
cheeses, cherries jubilee, drinks, con-
diments, and finger foods. The buffet
line is crowned with an ice sculpture
carved by Darrell.

Back in his office, Darrell is talking
about the challenge of feeding three
meals a day, nine months a year to
scores of occasionally ravenous young
adults.

‘‘The key to feeding students is an-
ticipation,’ he says, nodding toward the
sound of preparation, ‘‘and anticipation
is the spice of life.’’

Doerret brought a good deal of
restaurant experience with him when he
came to W&L with ARA Food Services
in 1969. He had worked for hotels and
restaurants in Florida, Pennsylvania, and
Virginia, but, as Darrell says, that does
not mean he was comfortable in the
kitchen.

‘‘T was familiar with the ‘front of the
house,’ the area where the customers are

served, but I didn’t know anything about
cooking. I could cut open bags and pour
them into pots, but that was about it.’’

Darrell got a quick education. While
he was learning the differences between
running a restaurant and directing an in-
stitutional food service, he spent a lot of
time in the kitchen learning the rudiments
of cooking from long-time chef Alfred
Carter, who has since retired. Whenever
Darrell had a few extra moments he
would return to ‘‘the back of the house’’
to pick up some of Carter’s pointers.

‘*In institutional feeding, all the
craziness is finished when the guests ar-
rive. Then everything is done,’’ he says.
‘*As long as the guests don’t see a prob-
lem, we’ll clear it up later.’’

Darrell’s confidence in dealing with
those problems comes from the ARA
systems he adapted for Evans (he left
ARA in 1977 to work directly for the
University) and the faith and trust he
places in his personnel. Darrell’s baker,
Rodney Rogers, has been manning the
ovens at W&L for 22 years; Chef Charles

W&L 19

 

 

Dunn has controlled the kitchen and
overseen the cooking for 15 years.

‘*‘Some people turn up their noses at
institutional feeding,’’ Darrell says.
‘*They say anybody can do it. But you
need three things to have a successful
food service: a commitment from the
University to have a good food service, a
good staff, and creative dining. We have
all three.’’

The creative dining—the anticipation
that provides the spice Darrell seeks con-
stantly to use—is the key to the opera-
tion’s success. In a given week, the din-
ing hall will always serve hamburgers and
chicken, but after that the menu could
include anything from pork chops to beef
stroganoff. The salad bar provides an
alternative for light eaters. Special nights
offer build-your-own tacos, hoagies, or
hot fudge sundaes.

Before the first undergraduate women
arrived on campus this past fall, Darrell’s
customers in Evans were ‘‘pretty much
meat and potato guys.’’ Darrell says the
arrival of women has not greatly changed
the eating habits in Evans, but he now
offers the full-service salad bar at lunch
and dinner. The salad bar had previously
been offered only at dinner.

**Students in general have become
more diet-conscious,’’ Darrell says. ‘‘But
I have really not seen much of a change
in students’ tastes over the years. We had
quiche on the menu before this year, but
now we have it more often.’’

Other items, especially liver, remain
as popular—or unpopular—as they were

20 W&L

before coeducation.

One chore in which Darrell takes
great pride is writing the menus, a func-
tion he has performed since his first day
on the job. He calls the menus ‘‘the basis
of everything we do’’ and always strives
for variety.

‘*‘If we gave them steak every night,
they wouldn’t be happy,’’ he says. ‘‘We
have to keep doing things differently.’’

To that end, Darrell also provides
special Oktoberfest dinners, the annual
Christmas and Thanksgiving feasts, and
cookouts each Friday night in the spring.
The end of the term brings the Exam
Survival Kits—bags of candy, crackers,
nuts, and fruit designed by Darrell to
assuage the students’ hunger pangs mid-
way through a pre-exam all-nighter.

Several years ago Darrell parlayed his
penchant for the unusual into a unique
meal. He saw an advertisement from a
New York bakery for five-foot loaves of
bread and ordered 25. The result was the
largest sandwiches ever seen on the
campus.

“*It’s just an attempt to add a little
diversity and break the monotony,’’ Dar-
rell said at the time.

The variety does not stop with special
dinners or feasts. Darrell combines new
and different dishes with traditional
cafeteria fare to come up with menus
that are both eclectic and exciting. Chef
Dunn’s peanut soup or seafood bisque
are examples of items not usually found
on a college dining hall’s menu.

Darrell’s efforts at variety and diversi-

 

One of the special meals, featuring plenty of
turkey (above) and trimmings, has W&L
students smiling at dinner time.

ty have not gone unnoticed. The National
Association of College and University
Food Services has twice awarded Darrell
first place for best regular cafeteria menu
and best special event menu, and several
second- and third-place awards for other
theme dinners. Darrell brought national
attention to his operation at Evans when
he hosted the regional NACUFS conven-
tion in 1982 and served a meal that
featured, among other things, smoked
salmon.

1, is the afternoon of the annual
Thanksgiving banquet. The kitchen of
Evans Dining Hall is humming as turkeys
and hams are pulled from ovens.
Cranberry sauce, vegetables, and pies—
mince and pumpkin—are ready to be
served.

For a special treat this year, Darrell
has decided to serve the meal family-style
rather than the normal cafeteria-line for-
mat. Dormitory counselors will carve the
turkeys (under the watchful eye and
direction of Chef Dunn) at each table,
and the rest of the food will be set out in
bowls. Hardly anyone in the dining hall
remembers that meals were served family-
Style at W&L until 1969.

Amidst the bustle of the kitchen, Dar-
rell strides about like the captain of a
ship. He points with pride to the four
convection ovens, the two roasting ovens,
the two deep-fat fryers, and the machine
that makes glazed donuts. The donuts,
like most foods that come from the

 

 

Chef Dunn’s
Delicacies

‘Te three following recipes are favorites of Washington and Lee
Chef Charles Dunn, who has shared them with many Evans Din-
ing Hall patrons over the years. Chef Dunn has scaled down the
recipes from those used in the Dining Hall so you need not invite
the whole neighborhood over for peanut soup when you finish with

one of these.

PEANUT SOUP
(Yields 12-14 portions)

1 Ib butter

1 lb flour

1 gal milk, hot

2 qts chicken stock

2 |b peanut butter, smooth
2 tblsp nutmeg

1 cup chopped peanuts

Melt butter in sauce pan and blend in
flour. Stir in milk. Stir in chicken stock,
peanut butter and nutmeg. Add peanuts
and serve hot.

BEEF WELLINGTON

6 OZ tenderloin of beef fillet,
peeled and deveined
3 Oz pie/pastry dough

salt and pepper

Rub fillets with salt and pepper to
taste and wrap in dough. Brush with egg
wash (fresh egg and tap water). Bake in
400 degree oven for 15 minutes to 130
degrees/medium rare. Crust should be
golden brown. Top with hot mushroom
gravy.

 

SHE CRAB SOUP
(Yields 12-14 portions)

2 Ib shredded crab meat
1 Ib melted butter

1 Ib flour

1 gal milk, hot

Y, gal chicken stock

Z bay leaves

1 tbisp seafood seasoning

Melt butter in sauce pan and blend in
flour. Stir in hot milk and chicken stock.
Add crab meat and bay leaves. Add
seafood seasoning. Blend well and serve
hot.

 

 

Evans kitchen, are made from scratch.

To the uninitiated (or the unac-
customed), the Evans kitchen resembles a
culinary wonderland. But to Darrell, it is
the heart and soul of his business. More
than 221,000 meals will be served from
the kitchen this year.

In an average month, Evans Hall will
serve about 32,000 meals. In that time
the students will consume 1,300 gallons
of milk, 15,000 soft drinks, 700 pounds
of roast beef, 9,000 slices of bacon,
13,000 slices of tomato, 1,500 pounds of
fresh potatoes, 2,000 pounds of frozen
vegetables, 5,000 glasses of orange juice,
and 130 gallons of ice cream.

Since W&L’s operation is independent
of a food service chain, many items are
purchased at a discount or by making
pecial deals. The food is kept in coolers
Or in the cavernous storeroom under
Evans Hall.

For the current year, Darrell projects
that Evans will have sales in excess of

$1.4 million. About $492,000 will be
spent on food. In addition to the meals
given to student workers, the dining hall
will have an annual student payroll of
$47,000, which in most cases helps defray
the cost of the students’ education.

Ask Darrell what is the most reward-
ing aspect of his job and he will tell you
without hesitation it is his close relation-
ship with the students. They ‘‘spend more
time in the dining hall in their first year
than any place on campus except the
classrooms,’’ he says.

‘‘One of the unique things about
W&L is that I can go out there and have
dinner with them. I like to take advan-
tage of that opportunity and get to know
them.”’

The walls of Darrell’s office are
testimonials to the affection he feels for
past and present students. They are
covered with cards and letters—some
scrawled on napkins or scrap paper—
thanking ‘‘Mr. D’’ for a kind thought,

letter of recommendation, or just a good
meal.

Darrell reciprocates by listening to
students’ suggestions for new menu items
or banning items the students find un-
palatable. He also shows sensitivity by
not scheduling banquets in Evans during
exams so students won’t be rushed
through their meal in order to get the
room cleared. (In addition to the regular
meals served at the dining hall, Darrell
also caters banquets and parties that
gross more than $100,000 a year.)

‘‘No one has more chance to interact
with students than I do,’’ Darrell says.
‘*It does my heart good and keeps my
enthusiasm up.’’

After 16 years and more than three
million meals, one wonders how Darrell
keeps that enthusiasm.

‘“As corny as it sounds, I love this
job,’’ he says. ‘‘I have no less enthusiasm
for my job than I did 16 years ago.”’

Maybe it was something he ate.

W&L 21

The W&L Gazette

 

The Aftermath: A Flood of Goodwill

 

es

Washington and Lee ROTC cadets Chris Spear
(left) and Marty Chapman removed soaked
carpet during cleanup efforts in Buena Vista.

T.. rain started as an annoying mist
on Halloween night—nature playing a
cruel trick on the children of Lexington.
Then it began to pour. For five days the
rain hammered western Virginia with lit-
tle relief.

Rain gear was the uniform of the day
for the 1,250 parents who came to the
campus for Parents’ Weekend on Nov. 1.
For three days the parents and their sons
and daughters crisscrossed the Colonnade
with heads down, the sheets of rain
discouraging contemplative pauses.

By Monday morning the creeks and
rivers were beginning to swell. Several
campus offices closed early and President
John D. Wilson cancelled the regularly
scheduled faculty meeting. It was
frighteningly obvious that flooding was
imminent.

The rivers exploded their banks that
evening, sending water, mud, and debris
crashing through the village of Goshen,
Goshen Pass, the east Lexington area,
Buena Vista, and Glasgow. When the

22 W&L

 

, : Fee x

The road through Goshen Pass, a familiar byway for Washington and Lee students, was torn

 

asunder by flood waters of the raging Maury River. Goshen was one of the areas hardest hit by

the November flooding.

water began to subside late Tuesday,
longtime residents realized this was the
worst flood ever to hit Rockbridge
County.

Although Lexington itself was spared
major flooding, the surrounding areas
were inundated. The Maury River ripped
Virginia state route 39, the twisting road
through Goshen Pass, from its bed and
washed away the concrete bridge at
Rockbridge Baths. State highway officials
estimate it will be mid-summer before
picknickers can once again enjoy the
beauty of the pass.

The Maury continued its destruction
further downstream at Bean’s River Bot-
tom, an apartment complex customarily
populated by law students, and at East
Lexington. Several law students were
washed out of their apartments when the
water reached second-floor levels at
Bean’s Bottom.

At East Lexington, the river cut a
swath almost twice as wide as its normal
path. Trees were uprooted, trucks were

flipped upside down, and the Lexington
water treatment plant was under water.

Buena Vista and Glasgow were the
hardest-hit areas of Rockbridge County.
The water level reached above five feet in
downtown Buena Vista, flooding City
Hall and many businesses. Glasgow, the
town situated at the confluence of the
James and Maury rivers, was submerged
completely and approachable only
through Natural Bridge Station.

When the rivers and streams returned
to their banks and the cleanup efforts
began, the Washington and Lee com-
munity contributed in many ways.

The University itself contributed
$5,000 to aid flood victims. The Inter-
fraternity Council donated $500 and ask-
ed each of the 17 fraternities to make in-
dividual contributions to the flood relief
effort.

The athletic department donated all
the gate receipts from the Generals’ foot-
ball game with Washington University to
the cause, and the Fellowship of Chris-

Photo courtesy the Lexington News-Gazette

 

 

tian Athletes took up a collection during
that game.

The freshman class raised more than
$500 through a fast in Evans Dining
Hall. The University Federation joined
with the Interfraternity Council to collect
almost $3,000 in food and canned goods
to be distributed mostly to flood victims.

The Intervarsity Christian Fellowship
and the Minority Student Association
also made cash contributions to flood
relief.

Shortly after the flood hit, members
of the W&L ROTC detachment mobilized
to help clean homes, businesses, and in-
dustries hit by the flood. The ROTC unit
also helped secure the Lexington water
treatment plant, where the flood had
washed away the fence, and the town of
Glasgow, keeping gawking sightseers
from interfering with the cleanup.

The University Women’s organization
and spouses of the ROTC staff members
contributed food and drink for the
volunteers. The University Women also
organized a food, clothing, and bedding
drive for victims of the flood.

Washington and Lee joined with
Virginia Military Institute and other Lex-
ington residents to limit water consump-
tion while city officials determined the
damage to the water treatment plant.
Water use was restricted in the dor-
mitories and at the Warner Athletic
Center. Evans Dining Hall helped by
serving meals on paper plates.

The Election Day Flood of 1985
brought back memories of times past
when the W&L community pitched in to
lend assistance to its Rockbridge County
neighbors. Following the flood in 1969,
the University opened its athletic facilities
to volunteers for showers and laundry.
W&L also made monetary contributions
then to flood victims in Buena Vista and
Glasgow.

Craun receives fellowship

Edwin D. Craun, professor of English
at W&L, has received a prestigious
research grant from the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities.

Craun was one of 111 scholars nation-
wide selected this year to receive NEH
Fellowships for College Teachers. Nearly
700 individuals applied for the grants,
which support independent study projects
in the humanities.

He will use the 12-month grant to
conduct research during the 1986-87
academic year while on sabbatical leave
from Washington and Lee. His proposed
project, entitled ‘‘Anatomies of Decep-

 

 

SRR REAR ERT NG

 

Craun

tion: The Abuse of Language in Middle
English and Scottish Literature,’’ will be
a book-length study of lying, slander,
and blasphemy in late medieval religion
and British literature.

‘‘Central characters in all types of late
medieval literature use words habitually
to misrepresent themselves, their
associates, and even their gods, just as
readily as they use words to distract and
befuddle others,’’ explains Craun. “‘I
plan to examine how major late medieval
British writers use traditional lore about
the ‘Sins of the Tongue’ as they explore
how, why, and with what consequences
their characters consciously misuse
language.”’ |

During his year of research, Craun
will read, translate, and study a number
of medieval works, including Langland’s
poem ‘‘Piers Plowman,’’ Chaucer’s The
Canterbury Tales, and treatises on the
‘‘Sins of the Tongue.’’ He also plans to
travel to England’s Oxford University,
where he will examine rare manuscripts in
Oxford’s Bodleian Library.

Craun’s project will build upon his
previous studies of medieval blasphemy.
He has written and published a number
of articles on the topic, which he re-
searched during the 1981-82 academic
year while a Visiting Fellow of University
College at Oxford under Washington and
Lee’s program of faculty exchange with
Oxford.

Latest U.S. News survey
lists W&L in new category

A new survey of college presidents
conducted by U.S. News & World Report
has listed Washington and Lee among the
90 most selective schools emphasizing the
liberal arts.

This is the second such survey con-

ducted by the national news magazine. In
the first survey, conducted in 1983,
Washington and Lee was placed in a
category called ‘‘Smaller Comprehensive
Universities,’’ which were described as in-
stitutions offering a ‘‘liberal-arts program
and at least one professional program.’’
In that category, W&L was rated No. |
among schools east of the Mississippi
River.

In its latest survey, U.S. News &
World Report revised its categories and
redefined ‘‘Smaller Comprehensive
Universities’’ to indicate those schools
‘*siving no more than half their
bachelor’s degrees in the liberal arts.’’

Consequently, W&L was moved into
the ‘‘National Liberal-Arts Colleges’? and
is part of an alphabetical listing of 90 of
‘*the most selective colleges that em-
phasize bachelor’s-degree programs...

Lucia Solorzano, the education editor
for U.S. News & World Report, em-
phasized that comparisons should not be
made between the 1983 survey and the
current listings because of the differences
in categories.

‘‘The categories used in the 1983
survey were drawn up in the 1970s,”’
Solorzano said. ‘‘Those used in the latest
survey have just been redone.

‘‘There is a very significant difference
between the category in which
Washington and Lee was rated in 1983
and the current category in which W&L
is placed,’’ she said. ‘‘The change would
indicate that Washington and Lee has
strengthened its commitment to the
liberal arts and has increased its selectivi-
ty in admissions.”’

Solorzano noted that Washington and
Lee’s situation in the two surveys was not
unique. In fact, the change in categories
had a similar effect on many other in-
stitutions. For instance, Willamette
University of Oregon, which was No. 1
among schools west of the Mississippi in
the same category as W&L in the 1983
survey, is now listed among the national
liberal arts colleges along with W&L.

‘‘We knew that changing the
categories would cause some schools, like
W&L, which had been prominent in the
first survey, to be missing from the top
rankings of the new survey,’’ said Solor-
zano. ‘‘The shift of so many to the na-
tional liberal arts category was one
reason. That is why we wanted to list
those 90 national liberal arts schools.
These are small college leaders, and we
printed all those names because we
wanted people to know that these are
strong institutions.”’

’9

W&L 23

 

 

Annual Fund Sets Record Pace Through December

Contributions to the 1985-86 Annual Fund are up by more than 19 percent from
a year ago, according to figures compiled by the University’s Office of Development.

As of December 31, the Annual Fund had received 3,624 gifts totaling a record
$961,641—the highest total ever recorded by the fund through December.

That total represents an increase of $156,858 or 19.5 percent from a year ago.
In addition, the number of donors is up 20.6 percent from the same point last year.

““The Annual Fund has been most fortunate so far this year to have received very
generous gifts from alumni, parents, and friends,’’ said James W. Jennings Jr., ’65,
’72L, of Roanoke, chairman of the Annual Fund. ‘‘There is a spirit of renewed vigor
among the class agents, the University staff, and the donors. We are gratified by
this outpouring of generosity.

“We face the challenge of meeting our goal with great hope, but also with an
appreciation that much remains to be done. If we are to attain our goal, we must
reach not only those who have been loyal supporters in the past, but we will need

 

Clark

W&L student chairs
national law organization

A second-year Washington and Lee
law student has been elected chairman of
the American Bar Association Law Stu-
dent Division for the 1986-87 term.

Gorham Sharpless (Rory) Clark of
Vienna, Va., was elected chairman of the
Law Student Division at the ABA’s Divi-
sion Board of Governors’ meeting in San
Diego.

Clark will assume his post in August
1986. As chairman, he will be responsible
for supervising the division activities in
the 150 law schools approved by the
American Bar Association. He will also
work with the president of the ABA and
represent the law student division to out-
side organizations.

Clark is currently governor of the
fourth circuit of the law student division.
He represents Virginia, West Virginia,
North Carolina, and South Carolina.

Washington and Lee has been well
represented recently in the law school
division of the ABA. David Delpierre, a
W&L law student, served as
secretary/treasurer of the law student
division for the 1984-85 term.

W&L receives gift
from Jeter Estate

Washington and Lee has received a
$10,000 gift from the estate of a woman
whose only connection with W&L is that
her brother attended the University.

The gift was from the estate of Mary
Fant H. Jeter of Union, S.C. Ms. Jeter’s

24 W&L

the support of new givers as well.’’

tributed $885,443 of the total.

 

There have been dramatic increases in gifts from alumni, parents, and friends.
Alumni donors have increased by almost 20 percent from a year ago and have con-

 

 

brother, the late Joseph Herndon, was a
member of the W&L Class of 1923.

According to the executors of the
estate, Ms. Jeter ‘‘especially wanted to do
this as she knew it would have pleased
[her brother] so much for her to do
something for his school because it had
done so much for him.’’

‘“‘This gift is particularly gratifying
because it was unexpected,’’ said Farris
P. Hotchkiss, director of University rela-
tions and development. ‘‘It also il-
lustrates the life-long impact of a
Washington and Lee education.’’

The gift will be used for general
operating funds for the University.

Another honor
for Dr. Goldstein

Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, ’62, whose
cholesterol research won the Nobel Prize
in medicine for 1985, was named the reci-
pient of another major award even before
he had officially received his Nobel Prize.

In late November Goldstein and Dr.
Michael Brown, who conducted the prize-
winning research together at the Universi-
ty of Texas Health Science Center in
Dallas, were among five winners of the
Albert Lasker Medical Research and
Public Service Awards.

Goldstein and Brown won the
Lasker’s Basic Medical Research Award.

The winners of the Lasker Awards are
selected by an international panel. The
Lasker committee prides itself on identi-
fying potential Nobel laureates. And
while the announcement that Goldstein

and Brown had won a Lasker came after
the Nobel Prize announcement, the two
scientists had actually been chosen for the
Lasker Award before their Nobel Prize
was announced.

Student exchange established
with University College

Washington and Lee has established a
new exchange program with University
College, Oxford, under which a W&L
student will spend a year studying at Ox-
ford. The program will begin with the
1986-87 academic year.

*‘We are delighted that Oxford has in-
vited us to participate in this new pro-
gram,’ said William J. Watt, professor
of chemistry who will coordinate the pro-
gram at W&L. ‘‘For a number of years
faculty members here at Washington and
Lee have benefitted from the exchange
program with Univ., and we are pleased
to be able to extend this opportunity to
include students.”’

Students are most likely to participate
during their junior year but participation
is not limited to juniors.

To be eligible to participate, a
Washington and Lee student will have to
be nominated by a member of the W&L
faculty.

Washington and Lee already has stu-
dent exchange programs with several
foreign universities, including Rikkyo
University in Tokyo, Chung Chi College
of the Chinese University of Hong Kong,
and Kansai University of Foreign Studies
near Kyoto, Japan.

 

 

——_—_—_————

Early decision admissions
again set record

For the second time in as many years
Washington and Lee reached an all-time
high in its ‘‘early decision’’ applications
with 214 students filing the applications
and 75 of those applicants (45 men, 30
women) accepted for admission.

Early decision applications are made
by students whose first choice of colleges
is Washington and Lee. Those applica-
tions must be made by December 1 each
year with the applicants notified of the
admissions decision by December 15.

This year’s increase in the number of
early decision applicants was not so
dramatic as a year ago, when the total
was double the previous high. The 214
applications compares with 210 a year ago
while the 75 acceptances compares with
110 last year.

There is a marked increase in other
statistics of this year’s early decision
group, however. The average rank in
class is the 83rd percentile this year com-
pared with the 79th percentile in 1984.
The average Scholastic Aptitude Test
scores are up SO points.

Moreover, admissions officials con-
tinue to be encouraged by the applicants’
records of extracurricular achievement.
Thirty-eight of the 75 offered admission
are honor society members, seven are
class presidents, four are student body
presidents, and 20 are captains of varsity
athletic teams.

The 75 students accepted under early
decision come from 20 states, 59 percent
are from public secondary schools, and
19 are children of alumni.

Law teams fare well

Two teams of Washington and Lee
law students had strong showings in the
National Moot Court regional competi-
tion at the University of Virginia in
December.

A team composed of second-year
students Powell M. Leitch of Covington,
Va., Neilli Mullen of Bedminster, N.J.,
and Dawn C. Stewart of North Massape-
qua, N.Y., placed second in the contest,
losing to first-place Virginia by a fraction
of a point in the final round. That team
advanced to the national competition to
be held in New York City in January.

The other W&L team, composed of
Delmara F. Bayliss of Winchester, Va.,
Paul C. Kuhnel of Carrizozo, N.M., and
Paul A. Morrison of Lexington, lost in
the semifinal round.

 

 

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, university photographer at W&L, won first place in the
international Jazz Photo ’85 competition for his photograph of guitarist Freddie
Green, the oldest surviving member of the original Count Basie Orchestra, per-
forming at the 1985 Fancy Dress Ball. It was the second time in as many years
that Hinely has won a prize in the international competition.

 

 

“Tickets ‘Available for 79th Fancy Dress
Washiaston and Lee’ s 79th annual Fancy Dress Ball will be held Friday, March

7, in the Warner Center and will again feature the music of the Count Basie Orchestra.

The Fancy Dress weekend will begin on Thursday, March 6, with a concert and

_ dance in the Student Activities Pavilion and will continue with the gala ball begin-
ning at 8: 30 p.m. on Friday.

While the Count Basie Orchestra performs in ‘he main ballroom of Warner
Center’ S gymnasium, there will be a variety of musical entertainment offered in

: Doremus Gymnasium.

As in recent years, the Student Activities Board, which plans and sponsors the
event, is encouraging alumni to attend. Tickets are $35 a couple and can be obtained
by writing the Student Activities Board, University Center, Washington and Lee

_ University, Lexington, VA 24450.

For additional information, contact the SAB at (703) 463-8585.
The following list of area accommodations is provided to assist alumni who plan
to return for the event.

Accommodations
_ (Area Code 703)

Colony House | 463-2195 Thrifty Inn 463-2151
Days Inn 463-9131 McCampbell Inn 463-2044
Econo Lodge , |= 463-7371 Howard Johnson’s 463-9181

Holiday Inn 463-7351 Keydet General 463-2143

Natural Bridge Hotel 291-2121 Ramada Inn 463-6666

Alexander-Withrow House 463-2044 Buena Vista Motel 261-2138

 

W&L

25

 

 

W&L’s Winstanley
hanging in India

A painting of George Washington
owned by Washington and Lee has tem-
porarily returned to its former home in
India.

The portrait of Washington, painted
about 1796, spent 163 years in India. It
was a gift to the University by the David
Warner Foundation of Tuscaloosa, Ala.,
whose chairman is Jack W. Warner, ’40,
trustee emeritus of W&L. The painting
was given to the University in 1980 and
has hung in the main lobby of the
University Library.

For the next year, the portrait will
hang in the hallway of the United States
embassy in New Delhi. It has been loan-
ed to the embassy at the request of John
Gunther Dean, the U.S. Ambassador to
India.

The story behind the painting and
how it came to be temporarily returned
to India is a saga that spans two cen-
turies and underscores the relationship
between an Indian merchant and the
American seamen he befriended.

In 1801, the portrait was given to a
Hindu self-made millionaire named Ram-
doolal Dey by a group of American ship
captains and merchants in appreciation of
the Hindu’s ‘‘esteem and affection.’’
Ramdoolal had supported the merchants
during the first years of America’s inter-
national trade following independence.

Ramdoolal’s friends, whom he had
helped to wealth through loans and the
exchange of quality goods, decided to
present him a uniquely American gift in
thanks. They could think of no gift more
fitting than the Washington portrait.

The painting was eventually sold to
another Indian by Ramdoolal’s grandson. It
remained in Calcutta until 1963, when it
was purchased by an American and
returned to the United States. In 1980 the
portrait was purchased by the Warner
Foundation specifically for Washington
and Lee.

W&L President John D. Wilson said
the loan of the painting to the U.S. em-
bassy in New Delhi ‘‘signifies the long-
standing relationship between our two
countries and the importance of main-
taining such relations.’’

W&L receives Dana Grant

The Charles A. Dana Foundation has
awarded Washington and Lee a $290,000
grant to support three new junior tenure
track appointments in engineering,
mathematics, and computer science.

26 W&L

The University has agreed to match
the grant with its own support for an ex-
perimental 10-year phased retirement pro-
gram to be available on an optional basis
to full-time faculty members who reach
the age of 66 during the 10-year period.

Under the plan, a faculty member
who reaches age 66 could elect to teach
half of a full-time number of classes
while a newly trained Ph.D. would teach
the other half under the direction of the
retiring senior professor.

John W. Elrod, dean of the College
at W&L, said the new retirement plan
will create continuity on the faculty as
senior professors retire and new faculty
members are hired.

‘‘The three new tenure track appoint-
ments will become effective in the
1986-87 and 1987-88 academic years and
will strengthen these three disciplines,
which are growing both in the number of
courses offered and in enrollments,’’ said
Elrod. The three new faculty members
will be named Dana Faculty Fellows.

‘‘The new computer science program
has generated broad student interest in
both its service courses and the major,”’
Elrod said in announcing the Dana grant.
‘‘The number of majors in engineering
science is growing, and I expect it to
keep growing. We are also seeing increas-
ed interest in the mathematical sciences.
The Dana Foundation’s grant will help us

 

we

% f
3a
4
Ma
>
y
a
st

Washington and Lee’s

= Winstanley portrait of George
| Washington is currently on
loan to the U.S. Embassy in
New Delhi.

meet the increased interest in these
areas.”’

The Dana Foundation is a private
foundation chartered in 1950. The foun-
dation has long been concerned with the
broad fields of health and private higher
education, reflecting the interests and
concerns of the founders, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles A. Dana.

Through a program of grants in
higher education, the foundation seeks to
assist private institutions of recognized
quality in strengthening the quality of
their faculties, student bodies, and
curricula.

This is the third major grant that
Washington and Lee has received from
the Dana Foundation. The first, in 1969,
was for $250,000 and was designated for
use in the renovation project that resulted
in a new home for the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics in what
was formerly the undergraduate library
building.

Because that 1969 gift was such an
important element in the accomplishment
of that project, the largest teaching area
in the Commerce School Building has
been named the Charles B. Dana Lecture
Room.

The second grant, in 1981, was for
$83,500 and was given by the founda-
tion’s Alumni Annual Giving Challenge
Grant program.

The Generals’ Report

 

A Successful Fall for W&L Athletics

 

Lec by the prolific performance of
Kevin Weaver and an opportunistic
defense, the Washington and Lee football
team captured a share of the Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference title.

After an opening loss to Emory and
Henry, the Generals rebounded with six
straight wins and finished the year with a
7-2 record. It was the sixth consecutive
year that W&L has posted a winning
record. The Generals finished 4-2 in the
ODAC, tying Randolph-Macon and
Emory and Henry for the title.

Included among those six straight
wins were impressive victories on the
road over rivals Randolph-Macon (31-19),
Hampden-Sydney (32-20), and the
University of the South (36-21).

 

°A feature story about Kevin Weaver begins
on page 15.

 

After seven games the Generals were
ranked sixth in the NCAA Division III’s
Southern Region and were attracting
some attention as a potential playoff
team. A bitterly disappointing loss at Ur-
sinus (26-23) wiped out the playoff
possibilities but W&L still bounced back
to close the season in style, stopping
Washington University of St. Louis 29-14
in the renewal of that rivalry.

Besides Weaver, senior safety Tim
Janyska of Marriottsville, Md., and
sophomore offensive tackle John Packet
of Salem, Va., were named to the all-
ODAC team.

The Generals’ defense was bolstered
by the emergence of freshman linebacker
Tom Skeen of Paris, Ky. Skeen led the

team in tackles with 101. He also handled :

the punting duties, averaging 37.6 yards a
punt.

Offensively junior quarterback Jon
Thornton of Forest, Va., passed for
1,198 yards and 10 touchdowns.

C)... 19, 1985, was a historic day
for W&L athletics since it marked the
first intercollegiate competition for

by Mark Mandel

= 3 :

Peter Van Son (8), a junior from Huntington, N.Y., brings the ball up the field during one of

      

the Generals’ victories. Senior John Templeton (9) of Charlotte, N.C., follows the play.

 

Washington and Lee aquatics coach Page Remillard instructs his water polo team.

women at the University—a cross country
meet in which the W&L women ran
against Virginia Commonwealth Universi-

ty. Though the Generals lost to VCU that
day and finished with a 1-5 record,
freshman Carolyn Arbogast of Nor-

W&L 27

 

thampton, Pa., represented W&L in the
NCAA Division III regional meet.

The men’s cross country team finished
with an 8-4 record and was third in the
ODAC meet. Sophomore Scott Rippeon
of Thurmont, Md., qualified for the
NCAA championships at Emory Univer-
sity, where he finished 108th with a time
of 25:35.

The young W&L soccer team shut out
six of its opponents en route to a 6-6
record. The Generals were not supposed
to be in contention for the ODAC cham-
pionship but made a strong run at the ti-
tle before finishing third in the con-

ference with a 3-2 mark.

Senior Billy Holmes of Gladwyne,
Pa., was named to the all-ODAC team as
a forward, although he played the last
half of the season as a back. Sophomore
goalkeeper Chris Gareis of Atlanta was
the beneficiary of W&L’s aggressive
defense and earned the six shutouts.
Freshman Johnny Sarber of Roanoke led
the team in scoring with seven goals and
one assist.

The water polo team kept its string of
winning seasons alive with a 19-14
record. W&L has posted winning marks
since the sport gained varsity status in
1977. Senior Tim Stanford, a two-time
All-American from Iowa City, Iowa, led
the team in most offensive categories.

 

Carolyn Arbogast,

a freshman from
Northampton, Pa.,
was a member of the
first women’s cross
country team at W&L.

 

FOOTBALL
(7-2)

Emory and Henry 30, W&L 0
W&L 7, Centre 3
W&L 31, Randolph-Macon 19
W&L 42, Maryville 17
W&L 32, Hampden-Sydney 20
W&L 36, Sewanee 21
W&L 7, Bridgewater 0 —
Ursinus 26, Wai 23
W&L 29, Washington Univ. 14

MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY
(8-4)

W&L 23, Mary Washington 37
W&L 23, Washington College 69
Roanoke 17, W&L 45
W&L 45, Norfolk State 101
W&L 23, Catholic 38
VCU 23, W&L 42
W&L 16, W.Va. St. 62
W&L 16, Bridgewater 76
W&L 16, W.Va. Tech 82
Lynchburg 37, W&L 54
Hampden-Sydney 53, W&L 54
W&L 54, Eastern Mennonite 86

WOMEN’S CROSS COUNTRY
(i-5)

VCU 15, W&L 41

W.Va. Tech 33, W&L 43

W&L 43, W.Va. State 44

Eastern Mennonite 28, W&L 57

Lynchburg 38, W&L 57

 

> Hall

Sports
Scoreboard

SOCCER
(6-6)

W&L 7, Shenandoah 0
W&L 2, Eastern Mennonite 0
Mary Washington 3, W&L 0
Lynchburg 4, W&L |
Messiah 1, W&L 0
W&L 4, Sewanee 0
W&L 1, Maryville 0
W&L 3, VMI 0
Gettysburg 2, W&L 1 (OT)
W&L 1, Hampden-Sydney 0
Roanoke 2, W&L 0
Liberty 2, W&L 0

WATER POLO
(19-14)

W&L 36, Lynchburg 2
Johns Hopkins 11, W&L 10
W&L 12, Arkansas 10
Richmond 16, W&L 6
Bucknell 19, W&L 1
Ilona 20, W&L 3
W&L 10, Army 9

_W&L 26, VCU 5

W&L 27, Lynchburg 5
Richmond 13, W&L 4

W&L 20, Lynchburg 6

W&L 18, George Washington 8
W&L 11, UNC-Wilmington 8

_ WEL 24, VCU3

Richmond 13, W&L 7
Navy 13, W&L 7
Brown 16, W&L 4
Harvard 11, W&L 7
W&L 14, MIT 2
W&L 17, Lynchburg 2

W&L 17, VCU 2

W&L 7, George Washington 2
W&L 5, UNC-Wilmington 0
Richmond 13, W&L 6

W&L 25, James Madison 11

_W&L 20, George Washington 6

W&L 22, VCU 1
Richmond 11, W&L 8
Brown 12, W&L 1
Richmond 13, W&L 3
Slippery Rock 7, W&L 6

 

28 W&L

 

Alumni News

 

Nominations Accepted for Alumni Board

 

Bia year a three-member nominating
committee is empaneled to fill vacant
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors
and to elect an alumni representative to
the University Committee on Inter-
collegiate Athletics.

Under Article 9 of the By-Laws of the
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., the
names and addresses of the members of
the Nominating Committee must be
published. The By-Laws stipulate that
any member of the Alumni Association
may submit names of alumni to the
Nominating Committee for nomination to
the offices to be filled.

That Nominating Committee is now
receiving the names of candidates to fill
five seats on the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors and the vacancy on the University
Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Alumni may send names directly to
any members of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the Ex-
ecutive Secretary of the Alumni Associa-
tion at the University.

The committee will close its report on
April 1, 1986, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alum-
ni Association on May 10, 1986.

This year’s committee consists of
David L. Dowler, ’71; Charles D. Hurt
Jr., 59; and H. Drake Leddy, ’71. Their
addresses and telephone numbers accom-
pany their photographs on this page.

Directory nears completion

All telephone contact has been com-
pleted by Harris Publishing Company,
which is producing the new Washington ~
and Lee Alumni Directory. |

The telephone surveyors verified in-
formation that alumni provided on ques-
tionnaires and information currently on
the alumni records. At the same time, the
telephone representatives invited alumni
to purchase personal copies of the
directory.

The directory is tentatively scheduled
for release in early May. Anyone who
orders a directory and does not receive it
by June 1986 should contact Harris
Publishing. Any alumni wishing to pur-

 

 

 

David L. Dowler, ’69
Adobe Resources, Inc.
645 Madison Ave.

New York, NY 10022

(212) 415-4600 Harris Tower

233 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, GA 30043

(404) 525-1100

Name Your Candidate

     

Charles D. Hurt Jr., °59
Hurt, Richardson, Garner,
Todd & Cadenhead

110 Peachtree Center

 

H. Drake Leddy, ’71
Real Estate Investments
USAA Financial Services
Ca.

San Antonio, TX 78288
(512) 732-1517

 

 

chase a copy should also contact the
publisher. The address is: Customer Ser-
vice Department, Bernard C. Harris
Publishing Company Inc., 3 Barker
Avenue, White Plains, N.Y. 10601.

Alumni College Reunion

A group of about 80 alumni and
friends from the Washington area par-
ticipated in a special reunion of the 1985
Alumni College Abroad when they met
for a tour of the English Country House
Exhibition at the National Gallery of Art
in mid-November.

W&L professors Taylor Sanders and
Pamela Simpson, who had accompanied
the Alumni College Abroad to England
last summer, spoke to the gathering.

Reeves Collection on tour

Washington and Lee’s Reeves Collec-
tion of Chinese Export Porcelain provid-
ed the theme for two chapter meetings in
November.

The Danville Chapter heard James W.
Whitehead, secretary of the University
and curator of the Reeves Collection,

speak on the 18th- and 19th-century
porcelain while the Mid-South Chapter
gathered at the Memphis Brooks Museum
of Art for a reception in conjunction
with an exhibition of the porcelain at the
museum.

Oklahoma elections

Two Oklahoma chapters, Tulsa and
Oklahoma City, held meetings in
November and elected new Officers.
David Cordell, ’82, is the new president
in Tulsa while Larry Johnson, ’55, is the
Alumni-Admissions Program represen-
tative. Dan Higgins, 69, was host for the
meeting.

In Oklahoma City, Tom Ferguson,
°73L, was elected the president while
John McMurry, 66, remains the A-AP
representative.

Jenks visits Texas

William Jenks, professor emeritus of
history, was the featured speaker for two
Texas chapter meetings, Austin and San
Antonio.

The Austin meeting, coordinated by

W&L 29

 

   

AUSTIN—Attending the Austin meeting were, from left, Austin Bray,
‘63; Gloria Rogers; Rick Gray, ’73; and Tom Murphy, ’33.

Sok
cae

 

 

 

LOS ANGELES—The Los Angeles Chapter gathering included (from
left) Tommy Tift, ’78; Jet Taylor, ’84; Kevin Lamb, ’78, ’82L (in
background); and Kevin McFadden, ’79.

Rick Gray, ’73, was the first for that new
chapter. In San Antonio, Chip Flanagan,
°75, chapter president, made ar-
rangements for the session that was at-
tended by Trustee Houston Harte, ’50,
and Trustee Emeritus Tom Frost, ’50.

Another group of Texas alumni met
in November when John Northington,
°81, organized a gathering for the
Midland area alumni.

Westward Ho!

Buddy Atkins, ’68, associate alumni
director, made a flying tour of the West

30 =W&L

 

CHATTANOOGA—Renewing acquaintances during the Chattanooga
meeting were Mr. and Mrs. Ed Brown (left) and Mrs. and Mrs. Dick
Yankee. Brown is a ’40 graduate; Yankee’s class is ’49.

   

 

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Greeting President John D. Wilson (left)
were Craig Castle, “50L, who was host for the gathering; Mary Scott

  

A“

   

&

Shepherd; and Tommy Shepherd, ’84L, the chapter president.

  
  

°72.

 

MIDLAND—Among the Midland, Texas, alumni who got together
during the fall were (from left) Bill Brown, ’69; Bill Kerr, ’79; Page
Kerr; John Northington, ’81; Rhonda Durham; and Lynn Durham,

 

*
‘

OKLAHOMA CITY—In attendance at Oklahoma City were (from
left) Jim Ferguson, ’74; Gary Shaffer, ’81; Jeff Shaffer, ’84; Ben

Butts, ’80; and Jim Truss, ’69.

Coast in November, bringing chapters in
Arizona and California up to date on the
implementation of coeducation and other
campus topics.

Those chapters Atkins visited for
meetings were Tucson, Phoenix, Los
Angeles, San Diego, and Orange County.

Boosting the Generals

The Philadelphia and Atlanta chapters
rallied their forces to support W&L
athletic teams this fall.

The Philadelphia Chapter sponsored a
tailgate party prior to the Generals’ foot-

ball game at Ursinus College in nearby
Collegeville, Pa. Marty Bowers, ’80, ar-
ranged the pre-game festivities.

In Atlanta, meantime, chapter
members had a pre-game pep rally prior
to the W&L basketball team’s meeting
with Emory University in late November.

Old Dominion days (& nights)

Members of Washington and Lee
alumni chapters joined with graduates of
other Virginia schools in four cities dur-
ing November for Old Dominion parties.

    

 

a 5 :
~~ ee oe bl

 

ton, °82; and Dick Wilson, ’68.

 

SAN ANTONIO— William Jenks (center), professor of history
emeritus, is flanked by Ganahl Walker, 40 (left), and Edgar Basse,
°39, at the San Antonio meeting where Jenks was the featured
speaker.

 

   

A ~ &

TUCSON—At the Tucson dinner mee

‘

ORANGE COUNTY—On hand for the Orange County, Calif.,
meeting were (from left) Jack Barrie, ’42; Tim Brooks, ’80; Jim Stan-

 
 
  

ting were (from left) Mrs. Edwin
Gaines; Edwin Gaines, ’50; David Mullon, ’46; Mrs. David Mullon;
Ben Anderson, 38; Lee Mullins, ’58; Mrs. Ben Anderson; Penny
Gaines, *39 (seated); Mrs. Bill Christie; Bill Christie, ’°69; Mrs. Wally

 

   

Clayton; Wally Clayton, ’44; and Mrs. Pendleton Gaines.

The Charlotte Chapter participated in
the third annual Old Dominion Fall
Oyster Roast. The Detroit Chapter
gathered at the Edsel and Eleanor Ford
House for an Old Dominion Day cocktail
and buffet party.

W&L’s Southern Ohio Chapter served
as the host for an Old Dominion
Homecoming, which featured an Ohio
River Cruise aboard the Mark Twain. As
the host chapter, the Southern Ohioans
ordered up the music, which featured The
Swing.

The strains of The Swing were heard

in New York, too, where W&L’s
Southern Comfort made a guest ap-
pearance at the Commonwealth Ball, a
black-tie occasion at the Roosevelt Hotel
attended by more than 500 alumni of
seven Virginia colleges. David Dowler,
°69, the New York Chapter’s president,
coordinated the arrangements.

Presidential visits

President John D. Wilson was the
featured speaker at two chapter functions
during November.

 

PHOENIX—Enjoying the festivities at the Phoenix meeting were
(from left) Jean Baxter, ’80L; Cindy Jewett, ’*85L; Cheryl Boggs,
*8S5L; and Jose Amorin, *80.

 

A

SAN DIEGO—Rik Meisner, ’68, donned his W&L letter sweater for
the San Diego meeting and is shown with Cindy Klinedinst (center)
and George Miller, ’56.

. ve
bratonpeteinere eck mt
acd Ss ant hetero

ae

 

iw — ©

TULSA—Getting together at Tulsa were (from left) Neal McNeill,
°50L; Mrs. Neal McNeill; Mrs. James Hocker; James Hocker, ’80L;
Dan Higgins, 69; and P.B. Berryman, ’38.

He spoke to the Chattanooga
Chapter, which also held elections in
which Paul Brock Jr., ’78, became the
new chapter president while Clay
Crumbliss, ’80, was-elected the A-AP
representative. Brock and Crumbliss
replaced Allen Brown, ’72, who had been
holding both offices.

The night after speaking in Chat-
tanooga, President Wilson addressed the
Central Mississippi Chapter at a cocktail
buffet at the Jackson home of Mr. and
Mrs. Craig Castle, ’50L.

W&L 31

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

acy

 

tate

 

a

re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stays active as counsel for the law firm of Jackson,
Kelly, Holt and O’Farrell in Charleston.

Henry L. Haines is retired from medical practice
in Connecticut. He and his wife recently enjoyed
two weeks at St. George Club in Bermuda.

Victor F. Marshall continues teaching medical
students three times a week at the University of
Virginia. He spends most of his time farming,
however.

Foster M. Palmer of Watertown, Mass., had a
busy summer riding the new subway in Pittsburgh
during its opening week, attending the Ohio Light
Opera in Wooster and the 55th reunion of his high
school class in Chicago, and putting in order a
large collection of family letters, including those
he sent to his parents from W&L. Palmer more
recently attended the opening of the Renoir exhibit
at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the open-
ing of the new Sackler Museum at Harvard.

Sherwood W. Wise (See 1932.)

1935

James M. Franklin has retired to a condominium
park in Florida. He and his wife, Peg, travel fre-
quently, and recent trips include a tour across
Canada to the Rockies and the Pacific, followed
by a Scandinavian tour, a journey down the Blue
Ridge Parkway, and a trip to Lexington for
Homecoming in October.

James P. Jordan of Emporia, Va., retired on June
1, 1985, as president of Emporia Sash & Door Co.
after 50 years with the company.

George E. Short retired from E. I. DuPont in 1971.
He and his wife, Katherine, now make their home
in Pompton Lakes, N.J.

James S. Woods is enjoying his retirement in Sun
City West, Ariz. He keeps busy as a ham radio

operator.
1936

50th Reunion May 8-10

 

 

William M. Allen is living in Louisville, Ky., where
he stays busy in his retirement by teaching English,
gardening, swimming, entertaining grandchildren,
and traveling.

Victor A. (Jax) Browning is retired and living in
the Seattle area. He is making plans to attend his
class’s 50th reunion in May.

Walter B. Eager fishes almost every day in Florida.
He writes a column about fishing for the Vero
Beach Press-Journal, as well as articles about the
subject for Florida magazines.

Christopher Newport College recently honored
Lewis A. McMurran in ceremonies renaming a
building for him. In a resolution from the
Christopher Newport board, McMurran was prais-
ed for ‘‘bringing the college into being in 1960 as
a branch of the College of William and Mary and
in 1975 providing for the young college’s
independence.’’

Tyree F. Wilson served as a naval aviator in the
U.S. Navy from 1939 to 1946. He is now on the
retired list and holds the rank of commander.

MARRIAGE: William H. Daniel and Jean Mur-
ray, formerly of Tulsa, Okla., were married Oct.

28, 1985. The couple lives in Rogers, Ark.

Stanley Barrows retired in June 1985 as professor
of history of architecture and decorative arts and

chairman of the department of interior design at
New York State University. Barrows began his
retirement with a six-week trip to France and Italy.

C. Arnold Matthews, who is recovering nicely
from quadruple bypass surgery, is the co-author
of History of Banking in Florida 1976-1982.

Parke S. Rouse Jr. has written a new book, Liv-
ing By Design: Leslie Cheek and the Arts, A
Photobiography. The book highlights the life of
Cheek, former director of the Virginia Museum
of Fine Arts and donor of the Skylark Farm pro-
perty to Washington and Lee.

1938

Paul H. Darsie is professor emeritus in the depart-
ment of clinical and preventative medicine at Cor-
nell University.

Paul M. Miller has made recent trips to Israel and
Spain. He continues to work on a master’s degree
in literature and teaches at Woodrow Wilson High
School in the winter months. Miller is active as
a vestryman at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church in San
Francisco.

John H. Shoaf has retired from active business for
the fourth time and is living in The Woodlands,

Texas.
1939

Harry B. Crane Jr. and his wife, Marian, retired
to Tucson in 1979 after 40 years in various manage-
ment positions with United Airlines.

James S. Dudley Jr. has retired as general agent
for Home Life Insurance Co. after 45 years of ser-
vice and a highly successful career. He now devotes
much of his time and energy to Bluefield College,
serving as vice chairman of that school’s board of
trustees.

John A. MacKenzie currently maintains senior
status (semi-retirement) as a U.S. District Court
Judge.

1940

Jackson G. Akin, senior member of Rodey,
Dickason, Sloan, Akin & Robb, in Albuquerque,
N.M., plans to become counsel of the firm in
April. After his retirement, he plans to operate a
marina at St. Simon, Ga., with Charles C. Curl,
’40.

Dr. Ralph P. Baker has received the distinguish-
ed service award from Duke University Medical
Center. Baker is a 1943 graduate of Duke’s School
of Medicine.

Harry C. Mason is recuperating at home after
spending four weeks in the burn unit at the Univer-
sity of Virginia hospital.

1941

45th Reunion May 8-10

 

 

Paul D. Brown retired as judge of the circuit court
of Arlington County, Va., after 35 years on the
bench.

Charles L. Hobson, who has practiced law in
Frankfort, Ky., continuously since 1946, has been
chosen chairman of the Electric and Water Plant
Board of the city of Frankfort.

Arthur C. Smith is enjoying his retirement and
stays busy with charity work and travel.

1942

James S. Hill is president of his family’s 123-year-
old wholesale seed and horticulture business in

Florence, Ky. He was on a Greek cruise ship in
the Mediterranean during the hijacking of the
Achille Lauro. Fortunately, his ship left Port Said
a few days before the takeover.

William J. Scott Jr. retired to Hendersonville,
N.C., earlier this year.

1943

Walter F. Brady operates his own private in-
vestigating and security consultant business in
Springfield, Mass. He had spent 30 years with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Alexander M. Maish, after a short retirement from
the MITRE Corp., has started working with the
computer system analysis firm, SRA Corp., in Ar-
lington, Va.

Stanley R. Mitchell has moved to Pacific Palisades,
Calif. |

Donald L. Richardson was recently honored for
his 20 years of distinguished service as adjunct pro-
fessor of economics and finance at Walsh College
in Troy, Mich. He has also been re-elected as direc-
tor of the South Oakland Methodist Credit Union,
where he serves as chairman of the Investment
Committee.

Paul D. Brown (See 1941.)

1944

Dr. G. Edward Calvert plans to retire from the
practice of medicine in February after 34 years.
A member of the W&L Alumni Association Board
of Directors, he is also on the board of the
American Savings and Loan in Lynchburg, Va.

Fred M. Valz Jr. has enjoyed travelling in Europe
and the United States since his retirement from
Lockheed-Georgia in January 1985.

1946

40th Reunion May 8-10

 

 

William A. Magee retired last April from his post
as vice president-investments and treasurer of
Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. in Roanoke. He
had spent 38 years with that company. Magee was
a participant in W&L’s first Alumni College
Abroad last summer.

Dr. George C. Morris Jr. is professor of surgery
and a cardiovascular surgeon at Baylor College of
Medicine.

1947

Warren G. Merrin Jr. is a financial consultant for
Robinson-Humphry Co. in Birmingham, Ala.

1949

John S. R. Schoenfeld has been joined in his finan-
cial consulting firm, InterVest, Ltd., by his son,
Richard H. Schoenfeld, ’80. The company is
located in Washington, D.C.

1950

R. Dabney Chapman is chief of U.S. information
services in Istanbul, Turkey.

Atwell Dugger retired from Corning in Raleigh,
N.C., in July after 25 years in the company’s
materials control department. Dugger plans to stay
busy cruising on his 32-foot sailboat.

Frank Love Jr. is currently serving as president
of the Georgia Bar Foundation. Love served as
president of the state bar of Georgia during
1982-83.

W&L 33

 

Howard L. Steele continues to work for the Latin
America and Caribbean bureau of the Agency for
International Development at the State Depart-
ment in Washington, D.C.

195]

 

35th Reunion May 8-10

 

Peyton S. Kulman is retired and living in Boca
Raton, Fla.

Frank Love Jr. (See 1950.)

1952

After 30 years of working for Signode Corpora-
tion, Gerald H. Coulson, director of Signode in
Germany and a vice president of Signode Corp.,
is retiring to Scotland to live in a castle that he
purchased in 1980.

Robert A. Maslansky has been appointed medical
director of substance services at New York

Publishing Coup

Stewart Richardson, ’49, has been an
international newsmaker in the months
since his publishing company, Richard-
son & Steirman of New York, released a
volume of Soviet leader Mikhail Gor-
bachev’s speeches, toasts, interviews, and
press conferences.

A Time for Peace was published last
November and, according to The
Washington Post, had sold 43,000 copies
in hard cover by January 1.

The 312-page book contains a 12-page
biography of Gorbachev along with eight
pages of color photographs of him and
his family.

In an interview with The Post,
published in its January 1 edition,
Richardson said that he had originally
become interested in doing a book like
Gorbachev’s when Andropov was in
power.

‘I wrote [Andropovy] a letter, asking
if he’d be interested in writing on foreign
policy, but he fell ill,’’ said Richardson,
a former editor at Doubleday & Com-
pany. ‘‘With Chernenko, I was interested
again, but I was told that he already had
a book of speeches out. And he was ill,
too.

Two months after Gorbachev became
general secretary of the Soviet Com-
munist Party in March 1985, Richardson
wrote him.

“‘Gorbachev’s people told me that he
felt it was a little early, that he had to con-
solidate his power before he’d write
anything,’’ said Richardson. ‘‘But in ear-

34. W&L

University-Bellevue Medical Center.

1953

Hayes C. McClerkin Jr., a member of the Tex-
arkana, Ark., law firm of Smith, Stroud,
McClerkin, Dunn and Nutter, has been elected to
the board of trustees of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College.

1954

John M. Blume is a senior member of the law firm
of Blume, Vazquez, Goldfaden, Berkowitz,
Oliveras & Donnelly in Newark, N.J. Blume was
elected a fellow of the American College of Trial
Lawyers in 1985 and is listed in the civil litigation
section of The Best Lawyers in America.

Joseph L. Lanier Jr., chairman and chief executive
of West-Point Pepperell, Inc., was featured in the
Nov. 7, 1985, ‘‘Business Day’’ section of the New
York Times and the Nov. 18, 1985, edition of
Business Week. His firm acquired Cluett, Peabody
and Co., manufacturers of Arrow shirts and Gold
Toe socks.

 

 

 

The only edition of this book worldwide.

ly September I got word back that he’d
do it.” :

Richardson and the president of
Novosti Press Agency Publishing House
signed the contract. According to The
Post, there was no advance, and royalties
will be donated to the Soviet English-
language magazine, Soviet Life.

Said Richardson: ‘‘If Gorbachev’s
gotten a penny out of any of this, I don’t
know about it. It’s a little hard to tell
precisely. | doubt if he’s riding around in
a Rolls because of all this.’’

Prior to his involvement with the Gor-
bachev book, Richardson had visited the
Soviet Union several times and had been
involved with a book about Russian
astronauts that was done in conjunction
with the Soviets.

The Rev. J. Fletcher Lowe Jr. was installed as rec-
tor of the Immanuel Church, Highlands, Wil-
mington, Del., in November. Attending the in-
stallation were the Very Rev. James C. Fenhagen
II, °51, of New York and the Rev. Richard A.
Busch, ’54, of Alexandria.

Carl D. Swanson has completed a seven-year
restoration on his Cottage Plains Farm in Grot-
toes, Va. The home is now a Virginia Historic
Landmark and is listed in the Register of National
Historic Landmarks.

1955

John F. Davis is facility manager of the Instru-
ment and Systems Analysis and Verification Facili-
ty, a 5,000-square-foot laboratory in Greenbelt,
Md., which works on the integration of space and
shuttle payloads at Goddard Space Flight Center.

Conrad H. McEachern is an American Airlines
captain/chief pilot, flying and instructing on Boe-
ing 767 and 727 aircraft. After leaving W&L,
McEachern graduated from LSU and now lives in
Dallas.

James D. Ritter has been appointed general finance
and planning counsel with Sperry Corp. in New
York. Ritter and wife, Sally, now live in Chester
Springs, Pa.

1956

 

30th Reunion May 8-10

 

William C. Norman Jr. is chairman of the First
National Bank of Crossett, Ark., and is currently
serving as president of the Crossett Chamber of
Commerce. Norman is also treasurer of the Ashley
County Industrial Development Corporation,
which just completed a $250,000 fund-raising drive
to accelerate industrial development in Ashley
County.

Dr. C. Dudley Rodgers continues in the private
practice of gynecology in Little Rock, Ark.

John M. Blume (See 1954.)

1957

Carl D. Swanson (See 1954.)

1958

Richard A. Davis recently took a new position with
the county manager’s office in Mecklenburg Coun-
ty, N.C.

Thomas C. Friedman left Brooks Brothers after
two years and opened his own store in the
downtown area of Cleveland, Ohio. Friedman
plans to open a second store this March.

Dr. William R. Goodman is director of interna-
tional studies at Lynchburg College in addition to
being professor of religious studies and advisor to
60 students from 20 countries. Goodman attend-
ed the Fourth International Congress of Egyp-
tologists in Munich in August, led a study tour to
Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, and China during the
summer of 1985, and will be leading his 10th study
tour to Egypt this winter.

Frank M. Hoopes Jr. is director of acrylic pro-
ducts at E.I. DuPont in Wilmington, Del.

James V. Kressler is a management analyst with
Tracor Applied Sciences, Inc., in Rockville, Md.

Edgar A. Wallace continues to practice law in
Kerrville, Texas, where his firm has added another
partner and now practices under the name of
Wallace, Jackson, Ables and Machann, P.C.

 

 

1959

Richard H. Horn has been elected judge of the
Court of Common Pleas of York County, Pa.

1960
MARRIAGE: Joseph J. Smith II and Joan

Johnson on Sept. 28, 1985, on Capitol Hill in
Washington, D.C.

J. Thomas Touchton was recently appointed to the
development board of Suncoast Gerontology
Center, one of the 10 regional long-term care
gerontology centers in the United States. The
center is located on the University of South Florida
campus in Tampa and is a community-oriented
organization whose mission is to improve the quali-
ty of health care for older persons.

James D. Ritter (See 1955.)

1961

25th Reunion May 8-10

 

 

George Y. Birdsong is executive vice president of
Birdsong Corp. in Suffolk, Va.

Walter J. Crater Jr. is a supervisory electronics
engineer with space and naval warfare systems
command in Washington, D.C. In his spare time
he enjoys playing racquetball and investing in real
estate. He and his wife, Lynn, are making plans
to come to Lexington for his 25th reunion.

Winston E. Kock Jr. was commissioned a ‘‘Ken-
tucky Colonel’’ by Kentucky Governor Martha
Layne Collins.

William B. McWilliams is a partner and senior vice
president of Trident Financial Corp., an invest-
ment banking firm in Raleigh, N.C.

1962
MARRIAGE: James C. Ambler Jr. and Emily T.
McIntyre in Palo Alto, Calif. Attending the wed-
ding was John N. Gulick, ’63. Ambler and his
bride honeymooned in Kenya, Africa, ‘where they
trekked up Mt. Kenya.

Walfred B. Thulin Jr. is employed by Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. as manager of the loss
prevention department for the Virginia district. As
an avocation, Thulin manages ‘‘Virginia Rail,”’
a central Virginia bluegrass band. He lives in

Richmond.
1964

William B. McWilliams (See 1961.)

1965

Leroy G. Crenshaw III of Richmond was elected
to a three-year term on the board of directors of
the National Truck Equipment Association.

Jack H. DeJarnette |
was elected a director
of Olympic Title In-
Surance Corp. of
Dayton, Ohio, anda
public trustee of
WYSO-FM_ public
radio. He heads De-
Jarnette Investment
Advisors in Dayton.

 

Victor R. Galef is vice president, marketing for
Menley & James Laboratories, the consumer pro-
ducts division of Smith Kline Beckman. Galef was
also recently elected chairman of the advertising
Management committee of the Association of Na-
tional Advertisers.

Ronald J. Kaye of Carlsbad, Calif., was planning
to retire early this year from the U.S. Marine Corps
after 28 years of service. He intends to travel for
a year and then become a financial consultant.

J. Malcolm Morris was recently appointed vice
president of Ziff Corp. in New York. He has been
assistant general counsel at Ziff for five years. He
lives in Manhattan with his wife, Mary, and two
sons, David, 7, and Michael, 4.

1967

Lee Parsons recently reported for duty at the U.S.
Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. He will be an
instructor with the mathematics department.

W. Roscoe Reynolds was elected in November to
the Virginia House of Delegates. He will be
representing Patrick, Henry, and Carroll counties
and parts of Martinsville.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edmund H. Armentrout,
ason, Andrew Connellee, on Oct. 8, 1985. Armen-
trout is the newly appointed vice president of Cen-
tral Atlanta Progress and also maintains his plan-
ning firm headquartered in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. Noel Clinard, a son, Ed-
ward Noel, on Jan. 26, 1985, in Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Harrold III, a
son, Charles Cotton IV, on Oct. 14, 1985, in
Chicago.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Eugene R. Jacobsen III,
a son, Kevin Andrew, on May 24, 1985, in
Potomac, Md.

Christopher B. Chandor is president of Penn’s
Grant Corp., a developer/builder of office com-
plexes, industrial parks, and homes in Penn-
sylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, and South
Carolina. He is also senior partner of Connolly,
Chandor & McAndrews law firm, headquartered
in Doylestown, Pa.

A. Alling Jones was recently appointed director
of alumni affairs at Georgia College in
Milledgeville, Ga.

Mavis P. Kelsey Jr. has formed a new real estate
brokerage company in Houston. The firm, Kelsey
McCullough, Inc., provides residential and com-
mercial real estate brokerage services.

Charles C. Lewis has been promoted to full pro-
fessor at the Campbell University School of Law
in Buies Creek, N.C. He is co-author of a book,
North Carolina Security Interests, published in
April 1985 by the Michie Co.

D. Christopher Miller is senior vice president and
area executive officer for Sovran Bank. He is
responsible for the southern area of Virginia.
Miller, his wife, Kay, and children, Jim, 11, and
Kathy, 9, live in Danville.

Steven R. Saunders has been elected a trustee of
the American Council of Young Political Leaders,
a foundation which organizes international ex-
change visits in conjunction with the State Depart-
ment and the U.S. Information Agency. He is
president of Saunders and Co., an international
trade consulting firm in Alexandria, Va.

Dr. H. Gilbert Smith is treasurer of the library
trustees and an elected member of the board of
trustees of the Reuben Hoar Library in Littleton,
Mass. He works for GTE, Inc.

Charles B. Tomm, counsel with Schlumberger Ltd.
in New York, has been elected to the Washington
and Lee Law School Council.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Kirk Woodward, a
daughter, Heather, on Sept. 15, 1985, in Rego
Park, N.Y. Woodward is co-director of a theater
company in New York.

Richard E. Kramer is teaching in New York
University’s undergraduate expository writing pro-
gram and completing course work on his Ph.D.
in performance studies at NYU. Kramer has writ-
ten reviews and columns for States and articles for
The Cambridge Guide to World Theatre.

David T. Shufflebarger, vice president for ad-
vancement at Old Dominion University in Nor-
folk, has been elected president of the Virginia
chapter of the Public Relations Society of
America.

1970
MARRIAGE: Clinton B. Palmer III and Patricia
Egan in May 1985, in Easton, Pa. Palmer lives in
Pasadena, Calif., and has worked as assistant
cameraman for visual effects on Poltergeist IT. He
is currently photographing stunts for television’s
The A-Team.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root Jr., a
daughter, Jennelle Dawn, on March 17, 1985, in
State College, Pa.

Robert C. Lee is city planner for Bristol, Tenn.
He teaches evening classes at Bristol College and
recently exhibited sculpture in Virginia, North
Carolina, Tennessee, and Pennsylvania. He lives
in Bristol. :

F. Miles Little is assistant professor in the depart-
ment of neurological surgery at the University of
Southern California in Los Angeles. Little is also
the attending neurosurgeon at the Children’s
Hospital of Los Angeles.

Daniel C. McDavitt is manager of outside facilities
engineering with Bell of Pennsylvania at Pocono
North East. He and his family live in Mt. Pocono,
Pa.

Robert P. Webb has been appointed assistant
comptroller for Richmond, Fredericksburg, and
Potomac Railroad.

Robert H. Yevich has joined Tucker, Anthony &
R.L. Day as vice president in charge of the firm’s
Madison Avenue branch. He and his wife and two
children live in Westfield, N.J.

1971

15th Reunion May 8-10

 

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Glasgow Jr.,
a son, David Scott, on June 15, 1985, in Silver
Spring, Md. He joins a brother, Charles William
III.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John G. Stafford Jr., a
daughter, Kathryn Anna, on Dec. 16, 1985, in
Virginia. She joins a sister, Victoria Lucy. The
family now lives in Los Angeles, Calif. Stafford
received an LL.M. from Georgetown University
School of Law in February 1984. He now prac-
tices law with the Los Angeles firm of McKenna,
Conner, and Cuneo, which also maintains offices
in Washington, D.C., and San Francisco.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. William C. Zattau, a
daughter, Charlotte Britt, on May 19, 1985, in
Vicksburg, Miss. Zattau is a research biologist for
the U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment
Station in Vicksburg.

W&L 35

 

a

a
; a 7 -

 

 

a
.

of Control Data
_ BIRTH: Mr. :
BIRTH: N

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a managerial training program with the phar-
maceutical firm of Merck and Co., Inc. Green-
baum, his wife, Elisabeth, and their daughter,
Virginia Gordon, live in Charlottesville.

Christopher N. Hoover graduated in December
from the University of Mississippi Law School and
returned to Dallas to open a law Office.

K. Lee Howard II has been promoted to regional
news editor for the Day newspaper in New Lon-
don, Conn. Howard, who is also the editor of a
local poetry magazine in New London, won the
1985 tennis championships of Old Lyme, Water-
ford, and New London.

James K. Ladky works with F. W. Ladky Assoc.,
a steel sales firm. He lives in Milwaukee with his
wife, Julie, and their children, Caroline, 4; Ted,
3; and Benjamin, 1.

Gerald L. Maatman Jr. is an attorney with the
Chicago firm of Baker and McKenzie. He and his
wife, Judy, live in Highland Park, IIl.

Richard C. Taylor is working for the Griffin Com-
pany, a real estate developer. He has been living
in Atlanta since his graduation from Mercer Law

School in 1983.
1979

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lowell R. Buckner III, a
daughter, Amanda Elise, on Dec. 16, 1985. The
family lives in Rochester, N.Y.

M. Gray Coleman, formerly associated with the
law firm of White & Case, is now practicing a
blend of international business and entertainment
law at Kay Collyer and Boose in New York City.
He continues to serve on the junior board of the
New York City Opera. Coleman recently return-
ed to Lexington to participate in the Marshall
Foundation’s first annual Public Service
Conference.

David D. Mylin is an F-15 pilot with the 60th Tac-
tical Fighter Squadron at Eglin AFB in Fort
Walton Beach, Fla.

In January 1986 John H. Norberg became a part-
ner in the firm of Diehl and Company, investment
bankers in Newport Beach, Calif.

Lawyers Title Insurance Corp. announced the ap-
| pointment of W. Riker
Purcell as associate
counsel-claims at the
company’s national
headquarters in Rich-
mond. He is a member of
the American, the
Virginia State, and the
Georgia State Bar
Associations.

 

John C. Tompkins was one of 85 ‘‘loaned ex-
ecutives’’ recruited by the United Way from Cen-
tral Maryland’s major employers. Tompkins, on
‘leave of accomplishment’’ from Alex. Brown and
Sons, is an investment representative, and after a
week-long training session given by the United
Way, he was specially equipped as ‘‘ambassador
of assistance’? and helped Central Maryland
employers coordinate their workplace fund-raising
efforts.

Matthew J. Calvert (See 1975.)

1980

MARRIAGE: David L. Church and Laura F.
O’Hear on March 30, 1985, in Lee Chapel.
Members of the wedding party included best man,
Edward J. McDonnell III, ’80, Christopher T.
Porter, ’80, and Kevin G. Kirby, ’81. In attendance

were classmates Douglas C. Dorsey and William
W. Paxton. The couple resides in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

MARRIAGE: Gary Langan Goodenow and Mary
Louise Kunkle on Sept. 7, 1985, in Smithfield, Va.
Classmates attending were: Brant L. Charles, Jef-
frey B. Fernandez-Villa, Paul A. Nathan, Jesse E.
Norfleet, Russell B. Parmele, Joseph A. Scott III,
and Wayne G. Welch. Alfred R. Hintz, ’81, also
attended. The couple resides in Fort Lauderdale,
Fla., where Goodenow is an associate at the Miami
office of the New York law firm Sage Gray Todd
and Sims. Goodenow is a graduate of the
Cumberland School of Law where he served as
editor-in-chief of The American Journal of Trial
Advocacy.

MARRIAGE: E. Hubbart Kennady III and Mor-
ta G. Cutbirth on Sept. 21, 1985. Attending were
Walter Scott, ’79, Clifford B. Sandock, ’79, and
Christopher B. Burnham, ’80. Kennady took a
year’s leave from St. Mary’s law school to work
offshore for Halliburton and then travelled for
four months to Europe and Asia. He is now work-
ing as assistant criminal district attorney in Bryan,
Texas.

MARRIAGE: F. Will Sherman and Harriet Anne
Koning on Aug. 17, 1985, in Toronto, Canada.

BIRTH: M. Wayne and Dianne Gibson Ringer,
ason, Royden Benjamin, on Nov. 1, 1985, in Port-
smouth, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell S. Wynne, a
daughter, Lisa Katherine, on July 17, 1985, in Fort
Worth, Texas. She joins a brother, John Robert
II. Wynne is in the oil and gas exploration business
and was recently elected to the board of directors
of RepubliBank Ridglea in Fort Worth.

Robert B. Earle is enrolled in the University of
Maryland’s part-time M.B.A. program and is also
a naval reserve officer at the Pentagon. He lives
in Gaithersburg, Md.

Kevin J. Ross recently became assistant district at-
torney in the Suffolk County District Attorney’s
office in Boston.

Richard H. Schoenfeld has received his M.B.A.
and joined his father’s financial consulting firm,
InterVest Inc., in Washington, D.C.

David W. West is a second-year resident in
pediatrics at the University of Virginia Medical

Center.
1981

Sth Reunion May 8-10

 

 

MARRIAGE; A. William Mackie and Linda
Waltress Haile on Oct. 5, 1985, in Durham, N.C.
Classmate James K. Vines was a groomsman.
Mackie received his law degree from Duke Univer-
sity in 1984 and is practicing law with Wamble,
Carlyle, Sandridge and Rice in Durham.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Calderone, a son,
Daniel Joseph, on Sept. 18, 1985, in St. James,
Ney

Kevin R. Bell of Baltimore recently accepted a
position with Alex Brown & Sons, the oldest in-
vestment banking firm in the country.

John G. Boatwright is doing a year of general in-
ternship at Georgia Baptist Hospital in Atlanta.
He plans to begin a three-year residency in
ophthalmology at the Medical University in
Charleston in July.

Paul S. Bourdon is a research associate in the
department of mathematics at Michigan State
University in East Lansing.

Thomas K. Coates has passed the Maryland state
bar examination and will join the family law firm
of Coates, Coates & Coates, P.A., with offices in
Ocean City, Berlin and Snow Hill, Md. The firm
includes his father, Raymond D. Coates, 50, ’53L,
and his two brothers, Raymond D. Coates Jr., ’71,
and B. Randall Coates, ’72.

William R. Cole III has recently joined W.R. Cole
& Associates, a glass, glazing and curtain-wall con-
tracting firm and supplier of windows. The firm
is located in Louisville, Ky.

Daniel R. Collopy and Nancy Jean Bradford, ’83,
have formed a partnership for the general prac-
tice of law under the name of Bradford & Collopy
in Abingdon, Va.

Brian M. Ginsburg received his law degree from
Rutgers University and is an associate with
Horowitz, Bross, Sinins and Imperial in Newark,
N.J.

Thomas H. McCoy Jr. has returned to the United
States after 19 months in the Far East. He hopes
to do some writing and lecturing on the Tibetan
culture.

J. Ross Newell III has joined the Richmond law
firm of Christian, Barton, Epps, Brent and Chap-
pell as an associate.

Michael C. Smith is an associate with the interna-
tional group of Merrill Lynch Money Markets
Inc., and lives in New York.

Robert H. Willis Jr. has graduated from the Har-
vard Law School and is working as a clerk for
Florida Supreme Court Justice Ben F. Overton.
Willis spent the summer of 1984 working in a Well-
ington, New Zealand, law firm.

1982
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Bedford, a son,

James Edward, on Aug. 10, 1985, in Baltimore,
Md.

J. Cabell Acree III graduated from the Universi-
ty of Virginia’s law school last May and accepted
a position with Bracewell and Patterson in
Houston.

Stephenson B. Andrews spent last July as an Ed-
ward Maverick Scholar for the 1985 session of the
Attingham Summer School in England. In
November, he joined the staff of the new National
Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington and
will be assisting with the opening of that museum
late in 1986.

Robert H. Forsyth has left the U.S. Army and has
moved to Charlottesville, Va., where he is an in-
vestment broker with Anderson & Strudwick Inc.
Forsyth’s wife is studying for her master’s degree
in French at the University of Virginia.

1983
MARRIAGE: Mary Grace O’Brien and Kevin F.
Casey, 85, on Aug. 24, 1985. They live in Annan-
dale, Va., where she is assistant commonwealth’s
attorney for Prince William County and he is assis-
tant county attorney for Fairfax County.

BIRTH: Phillip I. Dillingham and Leslie Goller
Dillingham, a son, Wesley Worthington, on Sept.
25, 1985, in Washington, D.C.

Richard A. Baer is an account representative for
Optimer Health Plan in Norfolk, Va.

Scott W. Hall is in an M.D.-Ph.D. program at the
University of Virginia Medical School. Hall return-
ed to the United States in August after two years
as a Fulbright Scholar at the Institute of
Neurobiology in Julich, West Germany.

W&L 37

 

G. Amory LeCuyer is wholesale marketing
manager for the York Oil Co. He and his wife live
in Newport News.

William L. Roberts III is a freelance journalist in
Connecticut. He works as a special correspondent
for the Stamford Advocate and the Greenwich
Time. He is also a reporter and on-air talent for
a Norwalk radio station and is a writer for the
Westchester Business Journal of Port Chester,
N.Y. Roberts is a competitive swimmer in the
United States Masters Swimming League. In Ju-
ly, he applied the CPR training he had received
at W&L as he saved the life of a friend who was
drowning in a backyard pool. Roberts resides in
Bridgeport, Conn.

Stephen B. Vaughan Jr. has been promoted to ac-
count executive of Aetna Life and Casualty’s
employee benefit division in Seattle.

Nancy Jean Bradford (See Daniel R. Collopy,

1981.)
1984

MARRIAGE: Glenn L. Kirschner and Tracy L.
Gitol on Aug. 4, 1985, in Belmar, N.J. Members
of the W&L community attending were classmates
Eric J. Campbell, Paul F.J. Chapman, James C.
Clark and James L. Koenig; Paul D. Marasciullo,
"85; and John B. Lewis, ’86. The couple is residing
in Boston, where he is pursuing a law degree at
New England School of Law.

Charles W. Alcorn III is now sports editor of the
Big Spring Herald in Big Spring, Texas.

James C. Clark is a sales representative with
Bausch & Lomb, handling the company’s northern
New Jersey territory.

Peter G. Collins is in his last year at the Southern
Methodist law school in Dallas. He plans to begin
work as a gas and oil attorney in May 1986.

Melville P. Cote Jr. is working in New Hampshire
as a field manager for the League of Conserva-
tion Voters, a national, non-partisan committee
that works to elect conservation-minded candidates
to political office.

James L. Green is now trust officer for City Na-
tional Bank in Kankakee, II. While still living in
Abingdon, Va., Green was elected as a delegate
to the 1984 Virginia Republican Convention along
with L. Lee Moise III, ’83, and Robert A. Vinyard,
’70.

David R. Harcus is a laboratory specialist in
clinical pharmacology at the University of Virginia
Medical Center.

Todd A. Howe is pursuing a master’s degree in
sociology and is teaching introductory sociology
classes at Oklahoma State University. Howe is also
an officer in the sociology honor fraternity, Alpha
Kappa Delta.

James P. Laurie III is personnel/safety director
for Pacific Atlantic Coastal Express, an interstate
produce and freight forwarding firm in Roanoke.

Stephen W. Lemon is in his second year of law
school at Vanderbilt University.

Alan E. McQuiston Jr. is a second-year M.B.A.
student at Columbia University. He was a sum-
mer intern at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Co. in New York.

Daniel L. Murphy is in the insurance business
working out of the USAA southeast regional home
office in Tampa, Fla.

Dolores M. Schmitt has joined L.S. Waldrop Real-
ty Co. in Roanoke as executive administrator.

Charles C. Sherrill Jr. has joined Landauer
Associates in Atlanta in real estate appraisal.

38 = W&L

Stewart T. Shettle is currently working for Barnett
Bank of Central Florida. He is also a member of
the Economics Club of Orlando. Shettle spends
his leisure time playing lacrosse with the Orlando

Lacrosse Club.
1985

Samuel P. Dalton is in his first year at the Univer-
sity of Texas Law School.

John A. DiDuro is a logistics engineer for Newport
News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.

Jeffrey D. Dixon is a first-year medical student
at the Washington University School of Medicine
in St. Louis, Mo.

John L. Dockery has joined the Louisville law firm
of Stallings & Stallings.

David A. Eustis travelled to Scotland aboard the
Queen Elizabeth II and is doing postgraduate study
in philosophy at the University of Edinburgh.

Ben C. Hale is the assistant director of develop-
ment at The Webb School in Bell Buckle, Tenn.

Andrew G. Haring is a first-year student at the
University of Michigan law school.

at Lee. But ane! the way
d some ns of business

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
      

the secret sauce isn 1
Moore’: S concoction. The recipe comes
from Charles Stamey, who owns two
restaurants in Greensboro, N.C., and
who has been making barbecue for half
a century. Moore says he spent months
begging Stamey to take him on as an ap-

B. Judd Hartman is working for the West Virginia
governor’s office of industrial development. He
plans to attend law school at Wake Forest in the
fall.

C. Gregory Hayes is a management associate with
Barnett Bank of Jacksonville, Fla.

John D. Long is a first-year medical student at
Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk.

Joseph C. O'Neill is with the public accounting
firm of Bryen & Bryen, P.A., in Cherry Hill, N.J.

Thomas M. Pearce is an investment advisor with
Paine Webber in New York and is studying to
become a certified financial planner.

William R. Tommins entered Bell Atlantic’s
management program in August for the C&P
Telephone Co. in Richmond. He is currently a
supervisor with the switched services department.

Elizabeth T. Winson is doing tort litigation in the
Pennsylvania attorney general’s office.

Kevin F. Casey (See Mary Grace O’Brien, 1983.)
J. Ross Newell III (See 1981.)

ford, where he supervises seven | employees
in his own restaurant. |

In addition to the bat becue. The Silver
— S menu consists of coleslaw, hushpup-
cream, and cobbler.
Mo S ted by criticism that the
selection i is too small. He likes to stick to

 

his specialties. —

Ina world thet craves fast food and

depends on the microwave, Jim Moore

and his 10-hour barbecue are unusual.
But he’s not about to change the way he
does things. —

“I make everything right bere,” he
says. ‘‘There’s nothing from a can, and
I don’t turn around and pull something
from the freezer. That’s what I like.’’

  
  
 
 
 
   

 

 

In Memoriam

 

1907

Charles Campbell Crockett, former judge of city
court in Dublin, Ga., died Oct. 13, 1984. Crockett
was a veteran of World War I, former master of
Laurens Masonic Lodge, and former patron of the
Order of the Eastern Star. He was a member of
Henry Memorial Presbyterian Church where he
was an elder and served as clerk of the session for
many years.

1913

Charles Campbell Crockett (See 1907.)

1917

Curtis Carlyle Humphris, retired postmaster of
East Lexington, died Nov. 6, 1985. Humphris serv-
ed as a lieutenant in the U. S. Army during World
War I and was a captain in the Virginia Militia
during World War II. He taught at Horner
Military School before becoming the manager of
the W. R. Humphris & Son Store in East Lex-
ington, which had been operated by members of
his family for three generations. Humphris serv-
ed on the Lexington and Rockbridge County
school boards from 1934 to 1968. He Was a former
member of the Lexington Rotary Club and the
Lexington Kiwanis Club and a member of the
Trinity United Methodist Church.

1925

Edwin Wallace Brown, a former employee of the
U.S. Department of the Treasury, died Oct. 12,
1985. Brown was an outstanding football and ten-
nis player while at W&L and served with the U.S.
Marines during World War I. He was a member
of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensburg,

Pa.
1926

Thomas Thorn Moore, retired senior vice
president-finance, treasurer, and member of the
board of directors of Shenandoah Life Insurance
Co. in Roanoke, Va., died Nov. 5, 1985. Moore
received his master’s degree in economics from
Columbia University. He was a past president of
the Roanoke Valley Chamber of Commerce, a
former member of the Roanoke City School
Board, past president of the Blue Ridge Council
of Boy Scouts of America, and past chairman of
the Roanoke chapter of the American Red Cross.
Moore was an elder in the Second Presbyterian

Church.
1927

Robert Hancock Jones, who practiced law in
Dallas for many years, died Nov. 8, 1985. He
graduated from the University of Texas and the
W&L School of Law. He was a charter member
and past president of the Northwood Club and a
member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and the
St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church.

William Clifford McDonald died June 11, 1984,
in Birmingham, Ala.

1929

William Bestor Brown, a retired employee of the
Liberty National Life Insurance Co., died Nov.
6, 1985, in Birmingham, Ala. Brown was a
member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and serv-
ed with the U. S. Navy Pacific Fleet during World
War II. He was a life deacon and trustee of Moun-

 

 

tain Brook Baptist Church, charter member and
past president of Shades Valley Kiwanis Club,
member of the Birmingham Country Club, and
board member of the Alabama chapter of the Na-
tional Multiple Sclerosis Society. Brown was a reci-
pient of the M. S. Patient Achievement Award and
the Hope Chest Award.

Robert Halsey Norcom, retired food broker for
Carolina Broker Inc., died Dec. 1, 1985, in
Greensboro, N.C. He was a 32nd degree Mason
and a member of the First Presbyterian Church.

1930

Dr. George Barksdale Craddock died Dec. 11,
1985, in Lynchburg, Va., after being struck by an
automobile. After
graduating from W&L,
Craddock completed his
medical studies at the
Jefferson Medical Col-
lege in Philadelphia. He
then returned to his
hometown of Lynchburg
to practice medicine. He
served as president of
both the Lynchburg
Academy of Medicine
and the Virginia Board
of Medical Examiners. He was a fellow of the
American College of Physicians and a diplomate
of the American Board of Internal Medicine. In
1985 he received an honorary doctor of science
degree from Washington and Lee. He was also the
recipient of the W&L Distinguished Alumnus
Award and the Lynchburg Citation for outstand-
ing service to the University. He was a Robert E.
Lee Associate and a member of the Alumni Board
of Directors.

Milton Wilson McFarlin, retired employee of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, died Dec. 30,
1984, in Sun City, Ariz.

Alison Howe Price, retired associate professor and
assistant medical director at Jefferson Hospital in
Philadelphia, died Oct. 28, 1985. Price was chair-
man of the board of Price Institute, an
oceanography research firm. He was residing in
Bernard, Maine, at the time of his death.

Benjamin Lewis Rawlins, retired secretary and
assistant general counsel for U. S. Steel Corpora-
tion, died Oct. 23, 1985, in Seattle, Wash. Rawlins
joined U. S. Steel in 1938 as general attorney. He
was a member of the American, Pennsylvania, and
Allegheny County bar associations, the American
Iron and Steel Institute, the Duquesne Club, the
Rolling Rock Hunt Club, and the University Club.

1931

Robert Hanes Gray, former professor of law at
Washington and Lee, died Nov. 17, 1985, in
Virginia Baptist Hospital. He received his B.S. and
LL.B. degrees from Washington and Lee, his
M.B.A. from Harvard University, and his LL.M.
and J.S.D. from Columbia University. He taught
law at Washington and Lee from 1936 to 1941 and
from 1963 to 1974. He also served as an assistant
professor of law at the University of Louisville.
He had been a member of the New York law firm
of Cravath, Swaine & Moore and later became a
corporate tax attorney for Bethlehem Steel Cor-
poration, where he also served as assistant comp-
troller and as a director and treasurer of several
foreign subsidiary companies of the parent cor-
poration. He was the author of Law in Medical
& Dental Practice. He was a visiting scholar at Co-
lumbia University and served as substitute judge
of Appomattox County from 1967 to 1972. He

served with the United States Army during World
War II.

The Rev. Arthur Irvin Orndoff, pastor emeritus
of Huntington Court United Methodist Church in
Roanoke, died Dec. 5, 1985. At the time of his
retirement in 1973, Orndoff had served over 50
years in the ministry. He was the Virginia con-
ference statistician for over 20 years. He had served
in Burlington and Moorefield, W. Va., and in the
Virginia cities of Lexington, Petersburg, Norfolk,
Lynchburg, Clifton Forge, Charlottesville, and
Huntington Court.

102

Richard Taylor Robertson, retired district super-
visor for the Missouri Division of Welfare, died
March 2, 1985, in Neosha, Mo.

Alexander William Smith Jr., a retired lieutenant
colonel in the U.S. Army, died April 4, 1984, in
New Smyrna Beach, Fla.

William Lee Tedford Jr. of Little Rock, Ark., died
June 19, 1985.

1033

Leland Leonard McGraw died Sept. 18, 1984, in
Oxford, Miss.

1934

Wilbur LaVerne Dixon of Lynchburg, Va., died
Aug. 19, 1984.

Everett Tucker Jr., former president of the W&L
Alumni Association, died
Nov. 1, 1985, in Little
Rock, Ark. As president
of the Industrial
Development Co., he
was largely responsible
for the location of the
Little Rock Air Force
Base and for the develop-
ment of the Little Rock
Industrial District. He
was also a member of the
Little Rock School Board
during the stormy years after the 1957 crisis at Cen-
tral High School. Elected to the board in 1958,
when the high schools were closed by order of
Governor Orval E. Faubus, Tucker was one of the
community leaders who overcame the opposition
of segregationists to reopen the schools. Born in
the city of Tucker, which was named for his grand-
father, in Jefferson County, he attended the Webb
School in Tennessee and Sewanee Military
Academy. Following his graduation from W&L,
where he was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma social
fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa, he helped
his father, a W&L alumnus, manage the family
plantation. While in the Army Air Corps, he at-
tended Harvard Business School in 1942-43. Later,
he attended the University of New Mexico Law
School for one year before launching his business
career with the industrial department of the Lit-
tle Rock Chamber of Commerce. Washington and
Lee awarded Tucker an honorary doctor of laws
degree in 1982. The W&L Alumni Association
honored him in 1979 with its Distinguished Alum-
nus Award.

 

1936

Robert Hanes Gray (See 1931.)

1937

Robert Clinton Moss Jr., a Richmond attorney,
died Sept. 23, 1985. After attending W&L, Moss
received his bachelor’s and LL.B. degrees from the
University of Richmond.

W&L 39

 

1939

John Henry Campbell Jr., a financial consultant
with General Acceptance Corp. Inc., died Sept.
4, 1985, in Belleair, Fla. Campbell had previous-
ly been in the radio and newspaper advertising

business.
194]

Forrest Burnette Wall of Newport News, Va., died

Sept. 21, 1984.
1942

Samuel Friedman Ciener, retired owner of Ciener’s
retail clothing store in Helena, Ark., died Sept.
6, 1985.

George Arthur Woolfenden, retired advertising
and public relations executive with Burroughs
Corp., died Oct. 30, 1985, in Lexington. Follow-
ing his retirement in 1983, Woolfenden moved to
Lexington from Bloomfield Hills, Mich. He was
a member of Delta Upsilon social fraternity and
the Lexington Presbyterian Church.

1944

Philip Given O’Connell, retired employee of
Potomac Edison Co. in Williamsport, Md., died
July 3, 1984. At the time of his death, O’Connell
was employed with Hagerstown Junior College
and the county extension service. He served on the
board of Williamsport Library,and the Maryland
Theatre and was involved with the La Costa
Advertising Agency. O’Connell served with the
Coast Guard in the South Pacific during World
War II and was a member of the American Legion
Post No. 202 and the Drum Beater’s Social Group.

Roger Michael Soth died Oct. 30, 1985, in
Williamsburg, Va. Soth attended W&L from 1940
to 1942 and entered the AAF in January 1943. He
received his wings and was commissioned a second
lieutenant in July 1943. Soth flew 32 missions as
a bombardier in a B-17 during World War II. For
his service he was decorated with the Air Medal
with three oak leaf clusters and the distinguished
flying cross. Soth graduated from Penn State in
1948 with a degree in engineering. He retired to
Edinboro, Pa., in 1984 after a successful career
with Lake City Industries, Inc.

1950

Bennett Marsh Clark, chief of Time magazine’s
South African bureau, died Aug. 27, 1985, in
Johannesburg. Clark joined the Time staff in 1963.
He worked in Chicago and London before becom-
ing bureau chief in Ottawa in 1966. As Saigon
bureau chief from 1968 to 1970, Clark directed the
magazine’s coverage of the Vietnam war. He serv-
ed as bureau chief in Jerusalem, New York,
Moscow, and Hong Kong before receiving his
South Africa assignment in 1982. He also covered
the Falkland Island War in 1982 and the fighting
in Central America in 1984.

1952

Charles Bryant Grove Jr., an attorney in Lan-
caster, Pa., died Nov. 12, 1985. While at W&L,
Grove played varsity basketball, was named to the
honor society as a sophomore, and was a staff
member and editor of the Law Review and presi-
dent of his senior law class. Grove served for 22
months in the U.S. Navy at Bainbridge before go-
ing into practice in Lancaster.

1957

Charles B. Grove Jr. (See 1952.)

1963

Charles Robert Wines, a Presbyterian minister,

40 W&L

died Nov. 21, 1985, in Albemarle, N.C. Wines,
a graduate of Davis and Elkins College, studied
at the Presbyterian School of Christian Education
and at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland,
where he received his doctor of ministry studies
degree. He was ordained in the Wilmington
Presbytery in 1967 and served as pastor of the
Tabor City, N.C., Presbyterian Church from 1967
to 1971. Wines also held pastorates at the
Eastminster Presbyterian Church in Indialantic,
Fla., and the Holmes Presbyterian Church on the
Virginia eastern shore. At the time of his death
he was associate pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Albemarle. Wines also served on
various Presbyterian committees and was active
in a number of community and school board

1977

Randall Brevard Johnson, branch manager of
Wachovia Bank Carmel in Charlotte, died Nov.

14, 1985. He was a member of the Alpha Phi
Alpha fraternity and the Charlotte Contemporary
Ensemble.

Staff

Richard Earl (Chub) Yeakel died Nov. 4, 1985,
in Lexington. He was 59. He had served for 14
years as athletic maintenance and equipment super-
visor for the department of athletics. In addition
to his duties in the Warner Center, he also was the
scoreboard operators for W&L home contests at
both Wilson Field and the Warner Center gym-
nasium. He had worked previously in the athletic
department of Lebanon Valley College. He was
a member of Lexington’s Good Shepherd
Evangelical Lutheran Church and was active in the
Southern Valley Area and Virginia Synod of the
Lutheran Church in America. His son, Steven
Craig Yeakel of Helena, Mont., is a 1978 graduate
of Washington and Lee.

And Furthermore

 

EDITOR:

I cannot believe that Donald S. Hillman, ’46,
is SO narrow-minded as to object to a picture of
the Jefferson Memorial in the Alumni Magazine
(‘And Furthermore’’ September/October).

W&L students spend nickels—which bear pic-
tures of Jefferson AND his house; they eat
spaghetti—introduced to this country by Jeffer-
son; they celebrate Independence Day—which
commemorates the adoption of the Declaration of
Independence, which Jefferson wrote.

Does Mr. Hillman object to all this, too? W&L
even owns a fine portrait of Mr. Jefferson (and
UVa owns one of General Lee).

Davip MESCHUTT, ’77
Dix Hills, N.Y.

EDITOR:

There were 11 Washington and Lee alumni and
three alumni parents on the 1985 Danube River
Adventure [an alumni travel program trip]. It was
a two-week Black Sea and Danube River cruise in-
volving visits to eight countries, mainly in Eastern
Europe.

The group held its collective breath until leav-
ing the Warsaw Pact before letting loose with the
traditional alumni bash abord M.S. Ukraina, in
Belgrade, Yugoslavia, on Oct. 20, 1985.

 

There were several memorable events on the
cruise. We visited the Blue Mosque and Hagia
Sophia in Istanbul, before sailing through the
Bosporus into the Black Sea. During lunch, the
coast of Asia was to the right and the coast of
Europe to the left. Other highlights: a night depar-
ture from Budapest, past the spectacularly il-
luminated monuments and buildings of the
Austro-Hungarian Empire days; an impromptu
visit to the startled citizens of a Bulgarian village;
a winding sail through the canyon walls of the
Transylvanian Alps at the very frontier of the
Roman Empire; two days in Vienna sampling
pastries and shopping. Other stops included
Bucharest, Romania, and _ Bratislava,
Czechoslovakia.

Shipboard activities included a raucous vodka-
tasting party, a costume ball, a crew show, and
a never-to-be-forgotten night on the Black Sea in
20-foot waves and 40 MPH winds. A combina-
tion Halloween and Thanksgiving ‘‘Friendship
Dinner”’ was hosted by the Soviet cruise ship’s cap-
tain, featured a game effort at roast turkey, ac-
companied by caviar and vodka chasers.

JAMES C. HAMILL JR., ’67
(On behalf of the group)
Washington, D.C.

ALUMNI CRUISERS—

_ Front, Jim Hamill, ’69; Mid-
dle, Duncan Burn, ’34; Ed-
ward Kaczka, °38; parent
Tom Rohrig; Holmes Dyer,
34; Back, John Harman, ’41;
' Charlton Gilbert, ’41; Ray-

_ mond Dustin, ’37; Howard
Melton, °36; Jay Silverstein,
43; Bruce Lanier, ’36;
Richard Berry, ’57; Not pic-
tured, parents Margaret
Demere and Edith C. Cooper.

Spring Sports

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May
May

Mar.
Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
May

May

Schedules

LACROSSE

1—Duke

9—Virginia Tech
16— Dartmouth
22— Virginia
26—Notre Dame
29—Towson

2—V.M.I.
12—Virginia Lacrosse Club
16—Cornell
19—Radford
26— Washington College
30—Roanoke

3—Loyola

10—UMBC

OUTDOOR TRACK

15—Davidson
18—Bridgewater
Eastern Mennonite
22—Liberty Baptist
Invitational
25—Newport News Apprentice
Eastern Mennonite
Roanoke College
29—Battlefield Relays
19—Furman Invitational
26—ODAC
3—James Madison
Invitational
11—Cavalier Classic

 

Away
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME

Away

Away
HOME

Away

HOME
Away
Away
Away

Away
Away

Feb.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May

May
May

BASEBALL

14-23—Florida Trip

8-9—West Virginia Tech (2)
13—Christopher Newport
15—Shenandoah (2)
18—Bridgewater*
20—Eastern Mennonite*
22—Randolph-Macon* (2)
24—Hampden-Sydney* (2)
27—Lynchburg*
29—Emory & Henry* (2)
31—V.M.I. (2)
14—Lynchburg*
16—V.M.I.
17—Bridgewater*
19—Maryville* (2)
21—Clinch Valley
23—Eastern Mennonite*
26— Radford
27—Christopher Newport
30—ODAC Quarterfinals*

3—ODAC Semi-Finals

& Finals

6—Clinch Valley

10—Alumni Game

*ODAC games

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May

MEN’S TENNIS

S5—V.P.I.
19—Emory & Henry*
22—Claremont
23—Swarthmore
24—Lehigh
25—Lynchburg*
28-29—W&L Invitational
31—Old Dominion
I—V.M.I.
14—Stetson
15—Flagler
16—Rollins
22—Randolph-Macon*
25-26—ODAC Championships
28— Virginia
1—Radford

*ODAC matches

Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

WOMEN’S TENNIS

10—Sweet Briar
12—Roanoke College
18—Lynchburg
21-22—Emory & Henry
Tournament
25—Mary Baldwin
27—Randolph-Macon
2—Hollins College
21—Bridgewater
25-26—ODAC Tournament

HOME
Away
Away
Away

HOME

HOME
Away

HOME

HOME
Away
Away

HOME

HOME

HOME
Away
Away
Away

HOME

T.B.A.

T.B.A.
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away

HOME
Away
HOME

Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away

The Alumni Magazine of Second Class Postage Paid
xington, Virginia 24450
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Mave Gee

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450
vrs Lewis H John

University Library

Our Alumni
Say They Love W&L

 

 

But only about 38% give to the
Annual Fund in any single year.
Compare that to such schools as
Amherst (62%), Bowdoin (55%),
Hamilton (61%), Middlebury (52%),
Pomona (51%), Swarthmore (60%),
Wesleyan (60%), and Williams (66%).

What To Do Is Obvious—

 

 

 

Put Your Money
Where Your Heart Is!

THE ANNUAL FUND
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

