MAY/JUNE 1985

Iversl

 

a Fe 3

pe NS

_—
a .

 

S
5
o

=

ae.
=
w
=
S
teen
50
a=
<a
WN
a
3
ur
S
©
=
9
x
S
=
&
=
a
o

a

hae!

 

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 60, Number 3, May 1985

Frank A. Parsons, ’54 ................. hd Pe es-5 Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .............. Managing Editor
Jeffery G. lana .... 0066. co Associate Editor
Robert Fue. co oy eee. Contributing Editor
Soyce Hari cee os Ge a Editorial Assistant
Arlene Thomas... 0.0.6... cc... Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.................... Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Thirtéen Years Later... .o..c.....c.0.cccscseoseseds vopecceecspends 1
A Washington DiscOVery.............ccccccecceeccceecceeceees 7
Biripey,  Matel oo. acct cenrpm crore tc0@ed on aneosiviaiskpp-ewsinn oyptep wel 9
The State of College Sports.............c ccc cece cecceeceeeees 10
Croquet: Champs, 0. 2:8. is ceeds beeen EE ieee bods 12
Spring Reumions...............cccccccceccecccecceccecceceecensens 14
CSGZCULE 6s oie obec ccc vacbncvcdaves vucevescedestsmléctotccincces ...16
Chapter NeWS...........cccccccccccceccccceecucceeccsceenscecensues Zt
ClaSS NOteS. 2.0... ceccccsccecccccececcscvssdvocdicecdiosestleceds 30
In Memoriam...............cccccccecccceccesccsscessecescesceesees 38

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through
the generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April,
May/June, July/August, September/October, November/December
by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington Virginia
24450. All communications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent
to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va 24450. Second
class postage paid at Lexington, Va. 24450 and additional offices.

Copyright © 1985, Washington and Lee University

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

CHARLES D. Hurt Jr., ’59, Atlanta, Ga.
President

JAMES W. MCCLINTOCK III, ’53, Tunica, Miss.
Vice President

OLIVER M. MENDELL, ’50, New York, N-Y.
Treasurer

RICHARD B. SEssoms, Lexington, Va.
Director of Alumni Programs
and Secretary

LERoy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

C. DUBOSE AUSLEY, ’59, Tallahassee, Fla.
W. NAT BAKER, ’67, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES R. BEALL, 756, Martinsburg, W.Va.
G. EDWARD CALVERT, ’44, Lynchburg, Va.
JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69, New Orleans, La.
WILLIAM N. CLEMENTS, ’50, Baltimore, Md.
JOHN W. FoLsom, ’73, Columbia, S.C.

M. LEE HALFORD JR., ’69, Dallas, Tex.
JAMES W. JENNINGS JR., ’65, ’72L, Roanoke, Va.
SIDMON J. KAPLAN, 56, Cleveland, Ohio
HENRY NortTseErc III, ’71, Kansas City, Mo.
JOHN PoyrNorR, ’62, Birmingham, Ala.
Rick M. TiLey JrR., 58, Fort Worth, Tex.

S. MAYNARD TurRK, 752, Wilmington, Del.
STANLEY A. WALTON III, 62, ’65L, Chicago, III.

ON THE COVER: Members of the Class of 1935 gather for
an impromptu photo session during their 50th reunion in
May. This year’s Spring Reunions included the return of
Washington and Lee’s first coeducational law class. A story
on the first women law students begins on Page 1; reunion
activities are reviewed on Page 14. Photograph by W. Patrick

Hinely, ’73

 

 

Campus News

New year brings record enrollment
and women in the School of Law

From the 1972 Alumni Magazine

LEXINGTON (AP)—Women degree candidates
Monday marched past the columns of Washington and
Lee University for the first time in the 224-year history
of the school.

They were candidates for law degrees and entered
as freshmen in the 81-member law school class of 1975.

Angelica Didier, a Smith graduate from Maumee,
Ohio, said being a woman in the sphere was “‘in-
teresting, exciting and flattering.’’

She smiled and added, ‘“‘I’ll be glad when the novel-
ty wears off. I just came here to study law.’’

It was September 11, 1972, when that Associated Press
dispatch cleared the wires, accompanied by a photograph of
Angelica Didier standing in a registration line, waiting to
enroll in the law school.

Six women entered W&L as full-time law students that
day; a seventh began classes on a part-time basis. They came
from Smith and Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, from
Vassar and Mary Baldwin, from the University of Louisville
and Wellesley. They came knowing that they were to be a
minority—not only while they were studying law but later
when they left to practice law.

Yet, as they look back, most say they remember few
moments when their minority status was a factor. That is not
to suggest that there were not difficulties. There were
awkward moments; there were instances of resistance, even
hostility, directed toward the women’s presence. They recall
that such occasions were isolated and rare, especially once it
was evident the women were there for the same reasons as

 

Remembering
I3 Years

Of Law School
Coeducation

W&L’s First Women Law Students
Take a Backward Glance

by Jeffery G. Hanna

their male classmates: to study law.

Ten years ago this May, the first W&L women marched
down the Colonnade and received their diplomas.

In the decade since, 196 women have earned law degrees
from Washington and Lee. Clearly, the novelty has worn off.

Today, more than a third of W&L’s law students are
women. Women have twice been editor-in-chief of the
Washington and Lee Law Review. A woman has been elected
president of the Student Bar Association for 1985-86. Women
hold leadership positions in every facet of law school life,
from the Burks Scholars program to intramural football. For
those who never knew the law school any other way, it must
seem that it has always been the way it is now.

But it hasn’t. First came the Class of 1975. First came
Angelica Didier, Virginia Garrison, Sally Green, Amber
Smith, Karol Ulrich, Caroline Watts, and Sarah K. Wiant.

x * *

Coeducation came quietly to Washington and Lee’s law
school, at least compared with the recent decision in the
undergraduate divisions.

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., dean of the law school then,
remembers the events this way:

‘‘Before I came on board as dean of the law school [in
1968], I had outlined to President Huntley a number of things
I thought needed to be done at the law school—things I would
expect to try to accomplish as dean. Among these was admis-
sion of women.

‘‘The president was frank in telling me that this was a
matter, unlike the others, which could only be done if approv-

]

Remembering

ed by the Board of Trustees. After I became dean I did not,
early on, press this matter actively with the president because
there were other items I felt needed more immediate attention.

‘*Then the American Association of Law Schools and the
American Bar Association amended their accreditation stand-
ards to require admission of students to law schools without
regard to sex. It was then obvious that the matter of admis-
sion of women to the law school would have to be placed on
the Board’s agenda. It was. And it was approved.’’

Buried in the minutes of the Trustees’ meeting from May
29, 1971, are the following two paragraphs:

‘*After citing factors that differentiate the admissions situa-
tion in the School of Law from that in the undergraduate
division, and the effect of these factors on the University as a
whole, the President upon endorsement by the Dean and the
Faculty of the School of Law recommended to the Board that
the School of Law admit qualified women applicants, effective
September 1972.

‘*The Board unanimously approved the admission of
women to the School of Law, effective September, 1972.’’

That was that.

The first year 49 women applied for admission; 13 were
accepted; six enrolled on a full-time basis; a seventh woman,
Sarah K. Wiant, enrolled, too, but divided her time between
classes and her position as assistant law librarian.

x **

Virginia Garrison was working as a paralegal for her
father, the late Rudolph Baumgardner Jr., ’35L, in Staunton
when the law school became coeducational. She had been out
of college (Randolph-Macon Woman’s College) almost 15
years and was married with two young children. ‘‘My father’s
eyes were going bad, and he had asked me to do some book-
keeping,’’ she recalls. ‘‘I gradually learned bits and pieces and
after working about five years realized I might not be in a
situation where an attorney would let me reach out and learn
more unless I went back and got more education.”’

So she applied to W&L. It was only natural. Not only
were her father, grandfather, and brother W&L law alumni,
but the University was only 30 miles away, a relatively easy
commute.

‘‘My impressions of law school are probably different
from the other women in the class because I was older and
was commuting,’’ says Garrison. ‘‘Some of my apprehension
was probably the reluctance of somebody who’s been out of
school almost 15 years and wonders whether they’ve forgotten
everything.

‘*But the anxieties I was feeling were felt by the younger
students. I remember talking once with one of the men in the
class when we were both at a real low. We were very dif-
ferent. He was from New York; I was from the South. He’d
gone to a big university; I’d gone to a woman’s college. I was
10 years older. Each of us was saying, ‘Why am I so scared?
What’s so different about me?’ We suddenly realized it was a
common fear.’’

2

 

 

This photograph of Angelica Didier waiting
to register appeared in newspapers around
Virginia in September 1972.

What surprised Garrison most was the cooperative spirit of
her classmates: ‘‘The class competed as all law classes do. But
it competed in a very healthy way. If someone in the class
found something that helped him understand better, generally
he shared it with the group because he wanted all of us to
understand.

‘*I was particularly surprised at that cooperation because
here I was living in a different town, 10 years older than most
of these young people, and yet they are some of the closest
friends I’ll ever have.”’

As the first women moved into their second and third
year, women in the law school were still the exception rather
than the rule. ‘‘But it was obvious it was working,’’ says Gar-
rison. ‘‘The first class had survived the first year, the second
year, and apparently was going to survive the third year.

*“There was a strong sense of pride when our class
graduated. But it was not pride because six women had made
it. It was because we made it. Ray had made it. Cary had
made it. Dan had made it. Jon had made it. All of us had
made it. It was a true community.”’

After she graduated, Garrison returned to Staunton where
she continues to practice. She has taught property courses at
W&L as an adjunct professor. Her children were eight and 10
when she entered law school; today, daughter Page is 21 and
a junior at Randolph Macon Woman’s College; son Alan is 23
and a senior at Hampden-Sydney. Next fall Alan will enter
law school—at Washington and Lee.

Kw Yaw! bk

For Angelica Didier Lloyd, Lexington was almost a second
home. Her father, Charles D. Didier, ’42, was an alumnus;
her brother, C. Darcy Didier, was a second-year student in
1972; her grandmother lived in Lexington; her grandfather,
Lucius Junius Desha, had taught chemistry at W&L.

““W&L was part of my heritage,’’ she says. ‘‘I graduated
in 1971 from undergraduate school (Smith College) and was
out working when my father got a copy of the alumni
magazine announcing coeducation in the law school. He
thought it was a whim that a woman would want to go to law
school but said he would pay the application fee if I applied
to W&L.’’

Lloyd characterizes the reception she and the other women
received from the upperclassmen that September as
*“cautious.”’

‘“‘Some thought it was fine; others, I think, were disap-
pointed that the school was going coed during their tenure
there. Their reaction was either cool or, in some cases, there
was needling,’’ she says. ‘‘You just let that roll off your
back.”’

One incident stands out in Lloyd’s memory. It was less a
question of women at Washington and Lee than of women in
the legal profession.

‘‘One fellow, who had come from an all-male school, turn-
ed to me at the end of our first torts class and asked, in all
sincerity and with no maliciousness whatsoever, ‘Do you really

 

  
 

   

ee ee

Angelica Didier Lloyd with son Preston Lloyd, 3’, and daughter Desha,
three months, at the May reunions

think women can understand law?’ I answered, ‘Yes, I think
we’ll do all right.” He’s now one of my dearest friends and
became that way during law school.”’

One argument Lloyd remembers confronting was common
in law schools everywhere. ‘‘Some people would tell us that
women are taking up spaces that ought to be held by men
since women really weren’t going to go out and practice,’’ she
says. ‘‘I think we had the pressure on us to say, ‘Oh, yes, we
do intend to practice, otherwise we wouldn’t be going through
all this foolishness.’ I suspect that inside we might have—at
least I might have had—some doubts about whether I was
really going to enjoy it.’’

Because their numbers were so small even by the time they
had progressed into the third year, the women were easily
identified and, says Lloyd, ‘‘our reactions or participation was
scrutinized.’’ Conversely, she thinks W&L’s size helped.
‘*Knowing I was going into unchartered waters in the law and
not knowing whether I would be able to cut it, I felt it would
be easier for me in a smaller environment. The social contacts
afforded by the small class size worked to the women’s advan-
tage because we got to know a lot of people, so we didn’t
hang together in a sea of anonymity. The six women in our
class were such individuals that we never really felt the need
for a cohesive group to defend who we were and what we
were doing.’’

So far as Lloyd is concerned coeducation caught on quick-
ly in the law school. ‘‘I don’t suppose that being coed

depends on numbers. I think it’s an attitude of acceptance on
the part of the majority, be it male or female, of the abilities
and talents and contributions of the minority,’’ she says. ‘‘I
always felt that acceptance at W&L.”’

And being in the minority may have helped in the long
run, she adds. ‘‘The experience at W&L was, in a sense, a
trial by fire, in which we were hardened to certain things that
we would experience later,’’ says Lloyd. ‘‘It gave me the inter-
nal fortitude to do other things.’’

After graduating Lloyd joined the legal department of
Norfolk & Western, now Norfolk Southern. Married and now
with two children, she still works for the Roanoke-based
railway, specializing in commerce law.

xk

Amber Smith’s father telephoned her the day the Trustees
voted to enroll women. ‘‘He’d been watching it and called to
tell me that my application was on the way,”’ says Smith,
whose grandfather (George M. Smith, ’05L) and father
(George M. Smith Jr., ’39, ’41L) preceded her to W&L and
whose brother (George M. Smith III, ’73) was a senior in the
undergraduate division when she arrived.

**I was at Wellesley, and it was at a time when we were
beginning to talk about women making progress in all sorts of
areas,’’ she says. ‘‘I thought this was a golden opportunity to
be a pioneer, to do something nobody had done before.’’

Indeed, the fact that she was among the first women was
made clear to Smith beginning on registration day when she
was asked whether she wanted to join the Law Wives Associa-
tion (now Law Spouses.) ‘‘I was a bit taken back by that,’
she remembers. ‘‘I was taken back, too, at the dean’s recep-
tion for new students when a male classmate approached me,
someone who had returned from Vietnam, and said ‘I never
anticipated that I would find women in my law school class.’
And he wasn’t happy about it. When you’ve been at a
women’s college where your right to be there and your in-
tellect have never been questioned on this basis, it is a little
different.’’

The hardest adjustment for Smith was learning to live in
the fishbowl environment.

‘*You constantly felt—or at least I did—that I had to be
extra careful in class not to give the wrong answer. I had to
work extra hard so that nobody would think that women were
too stupid to be in law school,”’ she says. ‘‘It was our collec-
tive honor we were upholding.’’

That feeling changed quickly, though. By midway through
her second semester, says Smith, the grind of law school took
Over.

‘Once it became clear that the women students were going
to be able not only to pass but that we were not going to be
barred from the other things in the law school, then we could
go about our business more easily,’’ she says.

Smith shares some of the feelings expressed by Angelica
Didier Lloyd about the peculiar value of their minority status.
‘‘I don’t feel any longer that I have to prove that I can make

3

 

Remembering

it in a ‘man’s’ world, because I’ve been through that and I
recognize it when I see it. I’m better equipped to deal with it
than I would have been had I gone to a law school that had
enrolled women for a long time.”’

Smith went to work in a law office in Altavista, Va., im-
mediately after graduation. Later she returned to her
hometown of Richmond, Ky., where she practiced in her
father’s office for a time before entering a University of
Denver program for law librarians. She earned her degree
there and became assistant law librarian at Valparaiso Univer-
sity in Indiana in 1979. A year and a half later she became
head of public services for the University of Oklahoma’s law
library.

Six years after Amber Smith graduated, her sister, Clara,
received her W&L law degree. ‘‘By the time my sister was
there, things were very different,’’ she says. ‘‘My sister was a
Burks Scholar and a Moot Court finalist and was named the
best female rusher on her coed intramural touch football
team. Everything had changed.’’

We Hee

Mac Squires was a third-year student and president of the
Student Bar Association in 1972 when women entered the law
school. When problems arose, as they invariably did, Squires
was among the first to be approached for solutions.

‘‘The first major problem was that Tucker Hall did not
have adequate bathroom facilities for the women,’’ Squires
says. ‘“There was one women’s restroom in the building, and
it had only one toilet. It was clear we needed to remedy that.’?

The solution was relatively simple. The faculty restroom,
directly across the hall from the women’s restroom, had two
toilets. By changing signs on the doors, the restrooms were
switched.

‘fAs I recall, the women planted some flowers in the urinal
or put a plant in front of it,’’ says Squires. ‘‘And I remember
being in Dean Light’s class not long after the switch and hav-
ing him explain to the class (while staring at me, I thought)
how he had been headed for the bathroom, had put his right
arm out as always, had pushed open the door, and had peered
in and encountered some sort of foilage in the urinal.’’

The restroom crisis (The Tempest of the Toilets, as Dean
Steinheimer dubbed it) was but one instance of the logistical
problems of those earliest days.

‘I never remember the women standing out per se,”’
Squires says. ‘‘I am sure that, at some point, there was a
derogatory remark directed at them, but I can’t remember it.

‘“‘My recollection is of complete acceptance. Each one of
the women was a unique individual and made a contribution
to the law school from the beginning. One thing that made
their assimilation easier was that the law school was smaller
then and was a very close-knit unit.’’

Squires, who also received his bachelor’s degree from
W&L, is now Lt. Col. Squires, deputy staff judge advocate
for the 101st Airborne Division, stationed at Fort Campbell,
Ky.

4

 

 

Mac Squires was president of the Student
Bar Association when the first women
entered law school.

‘After seeing the women who have come into the Army as
lawyers from W&L it is clear to me that admitting women to
the law school was the right thing to do,’’ says Squires.
‘“‘Those whom I have seen at work have been absolutely
superior.’’

x *k& *

Although she had always planned to go to medical school,
Karol Ulrich found herself in W&L’s law school in the fall of
1972. She had graduated from the University of Louisville five
years earlier and had married a lawyer named Joe Ulrich, ’59,
°61L, who had joined W&L’s law school faculty in 1968.

“‘Women didn’t work in Lexington back then—at least not
in professional positions other than school-teaching and nurs-
ing,’’ says Ulrich. ‘‘There was no opportunity for me to go to
medical school. So law school was something to do.”’

As she looks back on that period now, Ulrich is struck by
how differently women perceived their status then.

‘*T think the women did not think of themselves as having
rights. It was a matter of luck if you were able to do
something,’’ she says.

“‘For instance, I paid a student activities fee but wasn’t
allowed to use the gymnasium. Nowadays you’d have a sit-in
or a near riot over that situation. But we felt that swimming
wasn’t going to make any real difference on our record or
keep us from practicing law. It didn’t occur to us that we
needed anything special.’’

Ulrich was still in her first year of law school when the
movie The Paper Chase was released. ‘‘It was remarkable how
different our experience was from that movie,’’ she says. ‘‘We
had an unbelievably supportive group.”’

Ulrich had one particularly noteworthy distinction. She is
part of the only brother-sister team to graduate from W&L at
the same time. The day she received her law degree, her
brother, Karl Klinger, was receiving his bachelor’s degree.

Although she has not practiced law, Ulrich does not think
she wasted those three years. ‘‘I don’t see how anybody can
function in our society without a law school education,’’ she
says. “‘From dealing with merchants to buying your home,
people need an in-depth knowledge of the law.’’

wie ike

Perhaps Sally Green’s most memorable experience at
Washington and Lee came the first time she sat down to din-
ner in Evans Dining Hall.

“‘] had thought the Cockpit was the law school dining
room and didn’t realize all the students ate in the one big
room,’’ she remembers. ‘‘When I went there the first day,
there were thousands and thousands of men (so it seemed) and
not one woman anywhere for 100 miles. I told myself I had to
bite the bullet, and I did. I got my meal and sat down at a
table all by myself.

‘About three minutes later a fellow came up and said,
‘Sally, my name is Fred Grenade, and I’m in your class in law
school. May I sit with you?’ That’s one of the nicest things

that happened to me.’’

Green had been an undergraduate at Vassar when that
school first began admitting men as degree candidates. She
knew something of the early stages of coeducation from the
other side.

‘‘The first couple of weeks at W&L it was new being one
of so few women,”’ she says. ‘‘That wore off quickly. I never
felt extra pressure, but I think once in a while one of the pro-
fessors would get a kick out of taking sort of an embarrassing
situation of facts and asking me what I thought about it. That
was good-natured fun, I thought, and everybody realized
that.”’

Only in hindsight does Green recognize what a minority
she was in—both as one of a half-dozen women students on a
campus of men and as a woman practicing law.

‘‘T went from Washington and Lee to the National Labor
Relations Board, and that gave me a rather skewed vision of
the world because the government has had a lot of women
working as lawyers for a long time,’’ she says. ‘‘Now that I’ve
been out of school 10 years, and I’m back in Chicago, which
is pretty good about having women in law, I am beginning to
realize what a minority it was for me being at Washington
and Lee.”’

In some ways, she thinks that may have worked in her
favor. As an NLRB lawyer she once was sent to Oklahoma
City to contest a case in bankruptcy court. ‘‘My impression
was that not many women were practicing law in Oklahoma
City,’’ she says. ‘‘Every time I went into the courtroom the
judge would say, ‘I’m delighted to see you again, but where
are the lawyers for the government?’ I had to be very patient
with that, but the advantage was that a lot of the attorneys
there misjudged me and thought I didn’t know what I was
talking about.

**As a result they didn’t pay attention to the documents I
was filing, and I won. I think I won simply because they
didn’t do their homework..’’

Green left the NLRB to join the firm of Bell, Boyd, and
Lloyd in Chicago, where she continues to specialize in labor
law. She is married to an attorney.

x * *

The most uncomfortable moment Caroline Watts
remembers from her first days at W&L came the first time she
walked into the library in Tucker Hall and was more aware
then ever just what the odds were. ‘‘But it very soon became
not an issue,’’ she says. ‘‘I think there was hostility from
some of the upperclassmen until they got to know us. As long
as it was an idea or something in theory, some may have been
resistant to it. As soon as we became individuals that they
knew, that resistance evaporated.”’

Some problems were less easily solved. Since she was pay-
ing her way through school, Watts needed to locate the most
inexpensive housing possible. At the time, that was a room in
the law dorm, but women were not eligible to live in that
dorm.

Shee e

 

te a

Three of the first women law students who returned for the May reunions
were (from left) Virginia Garrison, Sarah K. Wiant, and Caroline Watts.

‘‘Rather than making a big deal about it and rocking the
boat, I worked within the system through the SBA and Mac
Squires. Mac talked with Dean Steinheimer who said to tell
me not to rock the boat but that they were working on it. By
my second year, I was able to live in the law dormitory,’’ she
says.

That is typical of the approach the first women took.
None were radical in their approach. In fact, quite the op-
posite. ‘‘I think that the first six of us, in addition to our
standard qualifications, were chosen with an eye toward our
respecting the traditions of W&L.”’

A year after she graduated Watts returned to the law
school to talk to the Women’s Law Students Association. ‘‘I
felt a lot more activism in that group than I had felt when |
was there, and I also wondered whether it was necessary.
Perhaps they had begun to take things for granted and ex-
pected more.’’

On her subsequent trips back to the law school, Watts has
been impressed by how natural the presence of women is now.
‘‘The best word to describe the situation is that it is so ap-
propriate for women to be in the law school,’’ she says.

Following a year as clerk to a circuit court judge, Watts
returned to her hometown of Madison, Va., and entered prac-
tice with her father, M. Williamson Watts, ‘48L. They have
been partners for the past nine years. In 1984 Watts was
elected Commonwealth’s Attorney for Madison County. She is
one of only two women who hold the elected office in
Virginia.

‘“‘The fact that 1 am a woman in what was traditionally a
man’s profession has not been an issue. It wasn’t an issue

Remembering

when I was at W&L and hasn’t been since,’’ says Watts.
‘‘We’re each individuals. Among individual lawyers there is
such a variation of personalities and styles and abilities that
what you have to do is show whomever you’re dealing with—
classmates, professors, clients, or constituents—that the in-
dividual you’re putting forth to them is the one they should
choose.’’

x *& *

When she interviewed for the position of assistant law
librarian, Sarah K. Wiant was told that the decision to enroll
women had been made. ‘‘I had just begun my legal education
at Texas Tech and was unwilling to accept any position where
I would not be permitted to continue that,’’ Wiant says.

Wiant entered with the Class of 1975. Because she was tak-
ing classes only half-time, she finished with the Class of 1978.
But her strongest ties are to that first coeducational class. ‘‘I
think that the class that entered in 1972 was unusually close,
and I suspect the fact that it was the first coed class had a lit-
tle to do with that,’’ she says. ‘‘In some ways the men in that
class were almost overprotective. It was as if all of us were
their little sisters.’’

Interestingly, Wiant believes the second and third classes of
women suffered more in terms of prejudicial reaction than the
first class. ‘‘Most of the women in the first-year class had
long family ties and had come because this is an excellent
school where you could get a fine legal education,’’ she says.

‘‘The first group already had instilled in them a feeling for
‘the University that perhaps grew into a fondness for the
University and then loyalty to the University. They wanted
coeducation to succeed here.”’

Unlike the six women with whom she entered, Wiant has
been an active participant in the evolution of coeducation
throughout its 13 years. She remembers difficult times, par-
ticularly in the early years of Lewis Hall. But those rocky
moments soon passed.

‘*Although it is a daily occurrence now, it still seems very
close,’’ she says. ‘‘This year the SBA elected a woman
president—a first. It’s still so new that I stopped to notice.’’

Wiant was named head law librarian and assistant pro-
fessor of law in 1978. She is married to Bob Akins, W&L
associate professor of engineering.

xk Kwik

When Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. was studying law at the
University of Michigan in the late 1930s, a woman in law
school was ‘‘a curiosity.’’

‘‘There might be one woman in an entire law school,’’ says
Steinheimer, who stepped down from his deanship in 1982 and
is now teaching in the law school. ‘‘A woman in the legal pro-
fession was a curiosity, too.”’

Even when women began to make inroads in the profes-
sion, Steinheimer recalls, they were not always greeted
graciously by the male counterparts.

‘It took a while for the profession that had been so heavi-
ly male over centuries to come around to the point of view

6

 

Roy Steinheimer was dean of the law school when it became coeducational
in 1972.

that there is definitely a place for women in the profession. I
think it is fair to say that women are now fully accepted in
the law profession and welcomed in the law profession and
make a contribution to the law profession,’’ Steinheimer says.

Although he readily acknowledges that there were trying
times in the early days of coeducation, Steinheimer remembers
being pleased by how quickly the law school evolved into ‘‘a
real coeducational community.”’

‘‘The first class led the way,’’ Steinheimer says. ‘‘By the
time that first group had become third-year students, if you
had never been in the law school before that year you would
have never have known that it hadn’t always been coed.’’

From Steinheimer’s standpoint, the major problems could
be traced to the law school’s status as a coed island on an all-
male campus. ‘‘The women couldn’t help but feel isolated in
the total community, because everything else was all-male,’’ he
says. ‘‘Over the years I think the University community has
become sensitive to women in the law school.’’

In the 13 years since the first women entered, in the
decade since the first women received their degrees, the evolu-
tion has progressed steadily and surely—just as steadily and
surely as women have progressed within the legal profession.

Says Steinheimer: ‘‘I think it is fair to say that the whole
climate in our law school and the spirit in our law school and
the educational process in our law school has benefited
substantially from the presence of women in our little law
school community.”’

Raced

Two leaves from the newly identified Washington ledger

2 PF ee

By George!

 

A Valuable Washington Ledger Is Rediscovered on the Campus

It isn’t difficult to find Washington
relics at Washington and Lee. There is
the celebrated Peale portrait in Lee
Chapel, of course, and the Custis family
portraits in the chapel’s museum. The
Reeves Center even owns a dinner plate
from Washington’s set of Society of the
Cincinnati china. The University can also
point with pride to the letter from
Washington to the Liberty Hall Academy
trustees notifying them of his gift of
canal stock.

Until recently, however, the University
Library’s holdings of original Washington
material were insignificant compared to
its large and important collection of
Robert E. Lee letters. Given the fabulous
prices asked for even a single Washington
letter—one recently brought as much as
$49,000—it seemed unlikely that the
library could ever acquire additional
Washington material.

And then in the fall of 1983, James
Whitehead, Secretary of the Board of
Trustees, suggested that the library, with
its climate-controlled storage facilities,

by Richard W. Oram

Reference and Public Services Librarian

 

   

a: emma re
Oram (right), Horrell, and the ledger

should take over a group of the Universi-
ty’s historical records stored in
Washington Hall. Among these papers
was a manuscript known to be associated

with Washington. Whitehead asked us to
restore the decaying document and to
find out as much as we could about its
significance.

Yellowed by age, stained with water
spots, and covered with mold colonies
that looked like Rorschach blots, the
18th-century sheets contained handwriting
at first difficult to make out. Yet the un-
mistakeable signature of ‘‘G:
Washington’’ could be discerned on
several leaves. Furthermore, a number of
entries clearly related to the estate of
Daniel Parke Custis, Martha
Washington’s first husband. Although the
leaves were arranged according to a se-
quence of numbers penciled on them,
there was no apparent continuity from
page to page.

Could this actually be a set of
Washington accounts previously unknown
to scholars? The answer emerged slowly
during several months of investigation.
When I matched up mold stains on the
leaves, it became apparent that the leaves
must have been in a very different order

7

By George!

when they were originally exposed to
water. Rearranged, they made up the
contents of an account book in
Washington’s handwriting. The book
concerned his administration of the
Custis estates and the guardianship of
Martha’s children, John Parke (Jacky)
and Martha Parke (Patsy) Custis.

As good fortune would have it,
Joseph Horrell, an independent scholar
living in Lexington, had recently publish-
ed an article on 18th-century guardian-
ship accounts. Joe Horrell became greatly
interested in the account book and at-
tacked the project with gusto, spending
several hours a day hunched over the
fading manuscript for almost a year. His
efforts allowed us to make a positive
identification of the manuscript.

We now know that Washington set up
this ledger to preserve copies of the
reports he submitted to the General
Court during his administration of Daniel
Parke Custis’ estate and the guardianship
of its heirs, from 1759 to 1773.

The value of the ledger is enhanced
by the loss of all the records of the
General Court in the Richmond fire of
1865. Douglas Southall Freeman, the
distinguished Washington biographer, was
able to use records duplicating some of
the information in our book in order to
describe the settlement of the estate. He
knew considerably less about
Washington’s guardianship of Jacky and
Patsy Custis, which he was able to
describe only in general terms. Our
manuscript was once consulted by
Freeman, but he understandably failed to
recognize the significance of the leaves,
then completely scrambled. Had they
been reordered, he would have seen that
the W&L ledger contains all the guar-
dianship accounts submitted by
Washington, and these provide much new
information about the rearing of his step-
children and the preservation of their
inheritance.

While research was proceeding at
W&L in the summer of 1984, scholars at
the University of Virginia were just about
to tackle the job of editing the various
documents associated with Washington’s
administration of the Custis estates. We
knew that Dr. William Abbot and his
associates were searching for every
document—journals, diaries, letters—
connected with Washington for publica-
tion in The Papers of George
Washington. As soon as the ledger was

8

 

 

positively identified, we simultaneously
submitted an article for publication in
The William & Mary Quarterly and
notified the Washington scholars at the
University of Virginia.

Confirming our belief in the
manuscript’s significance, Abbot describ-
ed the ledger as ‘‘the most important ad-
dition to George Washington’s material
in more than a generation.’’ Remarkably,
the accounts had come to light at precise-
ly the moment they were most needed to
fill gaps in the information concerning
this period of Washington’s life.

The story of how the manuscript
reached W&L, as we have reconstructed
it, is a colorful one. Following
Washington’s death in 1799, his papers
were dispersed. Many were inherited by
George Washington Parke Custis, Mar-
tha’s grandson and owner of the Arling-
ton estate. Custis’ daughter, Mary (later
Mrs. Robert E. Lee), became the owner
after her father’s death. When Union
troops advanced upon Arlington in 1861,
Mrs. Lee shipped trunks of family silver
and papers to Richmond, and then to
Lexington, in her words ‘‘the most
inaccessible place I know of [!].’’ One of
Gen. Francis Smith’s assistants was en-
trusted with the burial of the silver and
relics, including our ledger, near town.
Thus the cache escaped discovery during
Gen. Hunter’s raid on Lexington in June
1864.

A little more than a year later, the
Lee family moved to Lexington when
Gen. Lee became president of
Washington College. Mrs. Lee later
recalled that when the silver and papers
were dug up, it was discovered that the
box had leaked and the contents were
covered with mold. We surmise that at
this point the family discarded the
ledger’s binding and endpapers but for-
tunately preserved the leaves inside.

George Washington Custis Lee, the
Lees’ son, gave the Washington and
Custis papers in the family’s possession
to the Virginia Historical Society in the

One of the ledger’s leaves in Washington’s hand dated Oct. 20, 1757

 

late 1890s. For unknown reasons
(perhaps to commemorate Washington’s
association with the college), his sister
Mary Custis Lee withdrew the account
book and gave it to W&L in 1907. It re-
mained in Washington Hall until its
transfer to the library in 1983, with the
exception of a brief period in the late
1930s when it was sent to the National
Archives for restoration. Why the leaves
were not fully identified and rearranged
at that time remains a mystery.

The treatment applied to the docu-
ment in 1939 was well-intentioned but un-
fortunately resulted in further damage to
the already sadly deteriorated manuscript.
This summer, the Washington account
book will be taken to Philadelphia, where
experts in paper restoration will remove
the lamination applied earlier. They will
then neutralize the acidity in the paper,
which is causing it to deteriorate rapidly,
and will wash off as much mold as possi-
ble. Then the valuable leaves will be plac-
ed in individual plastic protectors and can
be photographed under ultraviolet light,
which will bring out many previously
unreadable details. The costly project is
being supported by the generous gift of
Mr. and Mrs. John G. Hamilton, ’32,
and library funds contributed in memory
of Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, ’25.

Already, scholars from The Papers of
George Washington are at work gleaning
information from our manuscript concer-
ning the great Virginian’s finances, his
accounting practices, and the contents of
the Custis properties, down to the door
latches. The W&L account book rein-
forces our image of Washington as an ex-
ceptionally systematic man, meticulous in
his personal record-keeping. Unques-
tionably the restored ledger will take its
place with the Peale portrait as one of
the finest of the University’s memorials
to its first major benefactor—something
we will be proud to display to our
students, faculty, and alumni for decades
to come.

ote -

fut
a

oe
Peony
Oo =

_

 

 

- a
; - /
Rag tee cape ovens deer rete ey ae
a oe

_ -
ss
a

oe

 

ee
Gm
a - — ~

> ee

from left fiel s -in-- 22 Gerais!

ae a
tke
ee

differently than it is now. ‘I’m NOT
it around to Division III athletic. a

s

 

   

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

oe
a
ne Sd
Se a ae aemeenen ee

 
 
    
 

  

ee

 

  

tee

 

wey,

a a
beget
suet

ate
eee
Scere

ae

  
   
   

to get adjusted to.
itic 1”).

 

Le For : two ye:

 

- / .
- . | |
- . . | |
: - : ;
7 |
- - : |
.
7 7 7 Oo 7 7 - 7 . - - - - - _ a
. ;
. - . | |
.

|

. | |

   
   
  
 

a
OO

 

  

-
oe
—

a

. a

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

Oo

 

   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

 

 

 

 

 

  
         
    
 
     

  

 

ee
oe

SSG
RS

 

 

 

 

more. And a regulation set runs up to
$1,200. As you can see, we’re talking
serious sport here.

Then again, even Zabriskie and Loen-
ing can appreciate the bemused expres-
sions that often greet their enthusiastic
description of the sport and its virtues.

‘fA lot of people are in the dark
about croquet,’’ says Loening, a junior
from New York City who has been on
leave this year and is attending Connec-
ticut College.

Adds Zabriskie: ‘‘Even though many
people tend to take croquet as some-
thing of a joke, it is growing by leaps
and bounds.’’

Croquet was a favorite sport
in Victorian England. Long
before the nets went up there,
Wimbledon was where croquet
was played, not tennis (it’s still
the All-England Croquet Club).
The sport made a few false
starts in the United States, but
croquet aficionados (yes, such
creatures do exist) date the latest
rebirth to 1977 when the United
States Croquet Association was
founded.

Zabriskie and Loening
became acquainted with the
sport six years later, during the
summer of 1983. Both were on
Martha’s Vineyard that summer.
Zabriskie was a grounds-
keeper for the Point Way Inn,
home base of the Edgartown
Mallet Club, and one of his
duties was to keep the croquet
court trimmed.

‘*T figured that since I had to
cut the croquet lawn every three or four
days I ought to learn how to play the
game,’’ says Zabriskie.

He began by merely knocking the ball
around the court and was occasionally
joined for these informal sessions by
Loening, who was spending the summer
nearby.

The owner of Point Way Inn, a man
named Ben Smith, happens to be a cro-
quet player of considerable skill. He took
the two novices under his wing.

*“Once (Ben Smith) found out that we
were sincerely interested, he showed us
what the game is all about,”’ says
Zabriskie.

After three or four weeks of practice,
Zabriskie and Loening were skilled
enough to make their way through the
wickets. That, however, was less than
half the battle.

“The physical skills are not nearly as
difficult to master as the mental skills,’’

says Zabriskie. ‘‘If you gave someone the
balls and a mallet and pointed them
toward the court, there is no way they
could figure out what to do without hav-
ing someone teach them. The strategy is
not self-evident.’’

‘‘Chess on grass’’ is one of the more
popular descriptions of croquet. Another
frequent comparison links croquet shot-
making techniques with billiards.

‘‘T would compare it to chess because
of a certain wait-and-see aspect and the
fact that there are classic moves in both
games,’’ says Zabriskie. ‘‘A lot of cro-
quet is waiting to see who will attack the

 

 

Loening (left) and Zabriskie team up on a croquet court in New
York’s Central Park.

other person. It’s far riskier to be an at-
tacker than to lay back and wait for the
other guy to make an error, then pounce.

*“One way that it is similar to billiards
is that each time you make a shot you’re
concerned not only with that shot but
with where that will leave you for the
next shot.’’

Strategy was the key to W&L’s na-
tional championship, say Loening and
Zabriskie.

‘*The players from Navy, for in-
stance, were superb shot-makers. They
could hit anything on the court,’’ recalls
Zabriskie. ‘‘But we dominated them
because we had a better sense of the
game’s strategy.”’

Though both are accomplished singles
players, they comprise a particularly im-
posing doubles team because their in-
dividual skills are so complementary.

“I’m a better shot; John is a better
strategist,’’ says Loening. ‘‘That makes

for quite a strong combination.”’

In fact, the W&L team was several
levels above their opponents in the col-
lege tournament. That was not necessarily
Surprising since Loening and Zabriskie
had finished among the top 10 doubles
teams in last summer’s national tourna-
ment in New York’s Central Park.

‘‘One reason we’ve come so far so
fast is that we spent two or three hours
every day for an entire summer working
on the game with Ben Smith,”’ says
Zabriskie. ‘‘If you work at anything that
way, you’re going to become good at it.’’

And though they recognize that
some folks are bound to con-
sider their devotion to croquet
somewhere between amusing and
hilarious, Zabriskie and Loening
insist that once you’ve mastered
the split shot and run a sheaf of
wickets or two, well, you’re
hooked.

‘*!’m serious when I tell you
that although I have participated
in many, many sports—both
team sports and individual
sports—none is as competitive as
croquet,’’ says Loening.

Adds Zabriskie: ‘‘I know
that becoming so caught up in
this sport may sound silly to
some, but we really are very
serious about it. Some of our
fellow players do tend to be a
bit stuffy, I suppose. But I’d
like to think that’s beginning to
change as more people become
involved. If we can begin to get
people to understand how
challenging and exhilarating
a real croquet match can be, then I
honestly think it will become an extreme-
ly popular sport in a short time.”’

Now that they have conquered the
college tournament, Zabriskie and Loen-
ing have set their sights on loftier goals.

*“We’re going to lay low for a while,
work on our game, and make a real run
at the nationals,’’ says Zabriskie.

Unhappily, it appears Washington and
Lee’s chances of building a croquet
dynasty are slim. Zabriskie graduates;
Loening plans to transfer to Connecticut
College to complete his degree.

‘But there are a couple of other peo-
ple on the campus who’ve played. Maybe
they can keep it going next year,’”’ says
Zabriskie.

After all, there is a national cham-
pionship to defend.

And who knows? Maybe Sports II-
lustrated and Brent Musburger will wake
up and take notice next time.

 

13

 
  

Renewing friendships during reunions

On a sparkling May weekend,
Washington and Lee welcomed back
alumni for the annual spring reunions.

More than 400 alumni and their
families returned to Lexington to take
part in the three-day event, which
featured barbecues and banquets, Bach
and the Beach Boys.

The festivities began with a keynote
address by Ross Hersey, ’40, of
Wayneboro, a former DuPont Company
executive who entertained the Lee Chapel
audience with a blend of humor and
enthusiasm.

The weekend included musical in-
terludes that ran the gamut from a
chamber music recital featuring three
W&L students to a Dixieland-style band
to Southern Comfort’s Beach Boys’

14

Spring
Alumni

; Reunions
1985

Southern Comfort takes a bow.

 

 

Ross Hersey, ’40, addresses the reunion.

sounds. And in one of the greatest coups
of the weekend, the Southern Collegians,
one of the University’s most popular
musical organizations, held a reunion of
their own, performing for the Class of
1950 banquet.

Chap Boyd, ’50, of Ridgewood, N.J.,
who originally formed the Southern Col-
legians, also organized the reunion, which
brought together pianist Berrie Hall, ’49,
of Hampton, Va.; drummer Ray Coates,
°50, of Berlin, Md.; trumpeter Frank
Love Jr., ’50, of Atlanta; and guitarist
Al Hoeser, ’50, of Roanoke.

As part of the weekend, the Universi-
ty bestowed Distinguished Alumnus
Awards on Robert G. Brown, ’40, of
Charlottesville, Va., chairman of the
board of the Dallas-based Universal

Resources Corp.; Francis W. Plowman,
24, of Philadelphia, retired executive for
the Scott Paper Co.; and Charles C.
Stieff II of Baltimore, ’47, executive vice
president of the Kirk Stieff Co.

Selected by the Alumni Association
Board, the awards were made at the
association’s annual meeting in Lee
Chapel.

In addition to their many contribu-
tions to their particular fields of business
and their home communities, all three
were recognized for their services to
Washington and Lee.

Brown was the first W&L alumnus to
endow a full professorship during his
lifetime. In honor of the 30th reunion of
the W&L Class of 1949, he established
the Robert G. Brown Professorship in

 

 

Law School Association officers (from left) Jeffrey L. Willis, vice president;
McCullough, immediate past president; Justice Alexander M. Harman Jr., president;

and Raymond W. Haman, former president

economics, which is currently held by
Charles F. Phillips Jr. Brown also
established an endowed emeritus pro-
fessorship in honor of the late L. K.
Johnson.

Plowman was president of the Alumni
Association in 1966-67 and has been
president of the Philadelphia Alumni
Chapter and a Class Agent.

Stieff has been a member of the
Alumni Association’s Board of Directors
and was named an honorary member of
the University’s chapter of Omicron
Delta Kappa national leadership frater-
nity in 1982.

Washington and Lee President John
D. Wilson delivered his annual report on
the University to the Alumni Association.

 

   

=

Wilson noted that in 1999 the Univer-
sity will be celebrating its 250th birthday
and said that ‘‘it is our obligation to do
whatever we can do to secure the future
of the next generation and the generation
beyond that....We do that in order to see
that our values, the values that have
meant much to us, live on and become
part of the future of this nation, the
future of this society, the future of this
University.”’

New Alumni Association officers were
elected. Bill Clements, 50, of Baltimore
replaces Charles Hurt, *59, of Atlanta, as
president of the association. The vice
president is Rice M. Tilley Jr., °58, of
Fort Worth, Texas, and the treasurer is
Charles R. Beall, ’56, of Martinsburg,

Distinguished Alumnus Awards went to (from left) Robert G. Brown,
40; Charles C. Stieff II, ’47; and Francis W. Plowman, °24.

Robert G. New Alumni Association president Bill Clements (left) with
outgoing president Charles Hurt Jr.

 

ee : aes
= 6 %

W.Va. New alumni board members are
Daniel T. Balfour, ’63, ’65L, of Rich-
mond; C. Howard Capito, ’68, of
Greeneville, Tenn.; W. Daniel McGrew
Jr., °52, of Atlanta; Thomas P. O’Brien
Jr., ’58, ’60L, of Cincinnati; and Chester
T. Smith Jr., °53, of Darien, Conn.

In its annual meeting held during re-
union weekend, the Law School Associa-
tion elected Virginia Supreme Court
Justice Alexander M. Harman Jr., ’44L,
of Pulaski, Va., as its new president and
Jeffrey L. Willis, ’75L, of Phoenix as
vice president. New members of the Law
Council are William J. (Jake) Lemon,
°55, ’59L, of Roanoke; J. Hardin
Marion, 755, ’S8L, of Baltimore; and
Charles B. Tomm, ’68, ’75L.

15

 

 

W, Gazette
Coy

 

Brown named librarian

 

Barbara J. Brown, associate director
of program coordination for Research
Libraries Group, Inc., of Stanford,
Calif., has been named head librarian at
Washington and Lee.

Brown was head reference librarian at
Washington and Lee from 1971 to 1976.
She will replace Maurice D. Leach Jr.,
who resigned to become director of a
newly created Friends of the Library
organization at W&L.

The appointment was announced by
John D. Elrod, dean of the College (of
arts and sciences), who directed the
search for the new librarian. She will
take up her new duties at W&L in July,
according to Elrod.

‘‘We are happy to have this outstand-
ing librarian return to our campus and
look forward to welcoming her when she
arrives this summer,’’ said Elrod.

A native of lowa and a graduate of
Iowa State University, Brown received
her master’s degree from the School of
Library Science at Columbia University.

She was a librarian at Cornell Univer-
sity for seven years before joining the
W&L staff in 1971.

While at Washington and Lee, she
taught a bibliographical resources course
and served as chairman of the board of
publishers of W&L’s literary journal,
Shenandoah.

In 1974 she was one of five librarians
in the United States selected by the
Council on Library Resources, Inc., for a
year’s on-the-job study at the library of
the University of California at Los
Angeles. She was the recipient of a Ring-
tum Phi Award from the W&L student
newspaper, which annually recognizes
faculty, staff, or students who contribute
significantly to the University’s academic
life.

She left Washington and Lee in 1976
to become assistant university librarian
for general reader services at the
Princeton University Library. She held
that post until\1980 when she accepted
her current position with the Research
Libraries Group, Inc., a non-profit cor-

16

Barbara Brown Named University Librarian

 

Brown
poration owned by 30 major universities
and other research institutions.

Her responsibilities with the Research
Libraries Group have involved designing,
planning, and administering programs in
shared resources, art and architecture,
and archives and manuscripts.

The author of several papers in
various library publications, she is a
member of the American Library
Association and the Association of Col-
lege and Research Libraries and has serv-

ed on a number of committees for both
those organizations.

 

Chenery inducted
into Hall of Fame

 

The late Christopher T. Chenery, ’09,
who founded one of the country’s most
successful breeding and training grounds
for thoroughbred horses, was inducted
into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame
during ceremonies in Portsmouth, Va.,
on April 26.

Chenery was an engineering graduate
of W&L and was a utilities magnate by
profession. His passion, though, was for
horse-racing. He founded The Meadows
in 1936, and that stable produced two of
the most famous thoroughbreds in recent
history—Secretariat, winner of the
coveted Triple Crown in 1973, and Riva
Ridge, winner of the Belmont and Ken-
tucky Derby in 1972.

Those two horses, like the others
from The Meadows, raced in the blue
and white colors of Washington and Lee.

Chenery was a Trustee of Washington
and Lee from 1950 to 1970. He was
largely responsible for the success of the
1959 University Bicentennial and was
chairman of the 1958-1960 fund-raising
program for new science facilities.

 

Wielgus awarded grant

 

A Washington and Lee biology pro-
fessor has been awarded a $13,000 grant
to support a research project that will ex-
amine the development and biochemical
role of an important protein found in the
tobacco hornworm.

John J. Wielgus, associate professor
of biology at W&L, received the two-year
grant under the Cottrell College Science
Program of the Research Corporation of
Tucson, Ariz.

According to Wielgus, the basic infor-
mation gained from the study may be ex-
ploited in the future by biotechnology to
develop environmentally safe and ex-
tremely specific crop protection schemes.

The tobacco hornworm, which feeds
on crops other than tobacco, is widely
used as a model for many other types of
insect pests.

Two years ago Wielgus discovered
and characterized the blood protein
known as ‘‘hemolymp trophic factor.’’
During that previous research Wielgus
determined that the protein is necessary
for the insect to develop its cuticle, shell-
like exterior skeleton or skin. He
demonstrated that the cuticle does not
develop at a normal rate in the absence
of that protein.

The next phase of his research will be
to determine the tissue that produces the

protein and to identify the biochemical
role of that protein.

Wielgus said that ultimately it might
be possible for scientists to use an
antibody-producing gene to inhibit proper
growth of the insect’s cuticle and thereby
protect crops from insect damage.

Wielgus will perform the research
primarily during the summer months and
will employ as assistants W&L
undergraduates who are interested in
scientific research careers.

A member of the W&L faculty since
1977, Wielgus received the B.A. degree in
psychology from the University of Illinois
Chicago Circle and earned both the
master’s and Ph.D. degrees in biology
from Northwestern.

He is a member of the Entomological
Society of America and of the American
Association for the Advancement of
Science.

 

First Leyburn Papers published

 

The first volume of the James G.
Leyburn Papers in Anthropology has
been published by Washington and Lee
under funding provided by the James G.
Leyburn Scholars Program in An-
thropology.

Entitled ‘‘Historical Archaeology West
of the Blue Ridge: A Regional Example
from Rockbridge County,’’ the volume
consists of a series of papers prepared for
and presented at a special session of the
10th annual meeting of the Society for
Historical Archaeology held in
Philadelphia in 1982.

Edited by John M. McDaniel,
associate professor of anthropology at
Washington and Lee, all the papers in
the volume were written by faculty
members, staff members, undergraduates,
or recent graduates of Washington and
Lee.

Included among the papers is an over-
view of historic site research at an
undergraduate teaching institution, writ-
ten by McDaniel. Other papers in the
volume discuss such topics as an-
thropological title searches in Rockbridge
County, a storekeeper’s account book,
log cabins and other structures in the
lower Shenandoah Valley, and the history
of Rockbridge County ‘‘as lived and writ-
fen.

According to McDaniel, the purpose
of the papers is to stimulate scholarship
in anthropology at Washington and Lee.

 

Bo SS

W&L art history professor Gerard Maurice Doyon and his wife, Marie-Therese, obviously took

the theme of the 1985 Fancy Dress seriously, doning attire appropriate for ‘‘The Mink Dynasty”’
in the Warner Center. The Count Basie Orchestra was one of three bands that performed for the
more than 4,000 who attended the 78th Fancy Dress Ball.

‘It is our plan to publish papers in
anthropology written by current students,
former students, and faculty members,
former faculty members, and staff
members of Washington and Lee,”’
McDaniel in the introduction to the
volume. ‘‘First, we are committed to pro-
ducing papers that will be useful to-other
scholars. Secondly, we are equally com-
mitted to the important role we believe
these papers will play in encouraging
scholarship and intellectual activity within
our university community.”’

The James G. Leyburn Scholars Pro-
gram in Anthropology was established in
1981 to support student research in an-
thropology. The program has been en-
dowed through gifts from alumni and
friends of the University totaling more
than $150,000.

The program is in honor of James G.
Leyburn, who served as Dean of the
University and as head of the
sociology/anthropology department.
Leyburn came to W&L in 1947 after 20
years on the sociology faculty at Yale. As
dean he authored the so-called Leyburn
Plan, a blueprint for strengthening the
University’s academic standards and mak-
ing the curriculum more truly liberal.

Among his contributions to
Washington and Lee, Leyburn was in-
strumental in the development of
teaching and research in anthropology.

writes

 

German professor wins award

 

David B. Dickens, associate professor
of German at Washington and Lee, has
been selected the winner of the 1985
Grawemeyer Faculty Award for research
in German-speaking Europe.

Administered by the University of
Louisville’s Department of Classical and
Modern Languages, the Grawemeyer
Faculty Award is made annually to facul-
ty from an eight-state area who compete
through the submission of a proposal
which promotes or provides for the shar-
ing of knowledge between German-
speaking Europe and the United States.

Dickens will use the Grawemeyer
Award as assistance in the preparation of
an English translation of the work of
19th-century German Romanticist
Clemens Brentano as well as an introduc-
tion to Brentano’s life.

 

New alumni directory

 

A comprehensive directory of
Washington and Lee alumni is scheduled
for release in May 1986. The publication
is planned as a reference volume for
alumni who wish to know where their
friends are and what they are doing now.

The directory will be divided into four
sections. The first will contain

17

Le Gazette

photographs and information on W&L
and will be followed by an alphabetical
section with individual listings on each
alum. Entries will include name, class
year, degree, and professional informa-
tion such as job title, firm name, ad-
dress, and telephone, as well as home ad-
dress and phone. The third section will
list alumni by class, and the last index
will list alumni geographically by city,
state, and foreign country.

All the information in the directory
will be researched and compiled by the
Harris Publishing Company. The updated
information will be obtained through
questionnaires sent to alumni in August
and will be followed up by telephone
verification in December. The coopera-
tion of alumni in providing updated in-
formation will insure success. Alumni will
be given an opportunity to order the
directory when their information is
verified by phone. (Only Washington and
Lee alumni will be able to purchase a
copy.)

The entire project will be undertaken
at virtually no cost to Washington and
Lee. The Harris Company will finance
the operation through the sale of direc-
tories to alumni. The University will not
benefit financially from the directory
sales but will derive substantial benefit
from the completely updated alumni
records.

 

Ritz Fund established

 

A fund to honor retiring Washington
and Lee law professor Wilfred J. Ritz
has been established in the W&L School
of Law and will be used to support the
school’s Alderson Legal Assistance Pro-
gram.

Ritz will retire from active teaching
next month after 32 years on the faculty
of the W&L law school.

The fund is being established through
contributions made by current and
former law school faculty members and
by law school graduates, many of whom
were participants in the Alderson pro-
gram while students in W&L’s law
school.

Ritz, an alumnus of Washington and
Lee, has directed the Alderson program
since its inception in April 1970.

Under the program, W&L law
students provide legal assistance to the in-
mates of the Federal Correctional Institu-
tion at Alderson, W.Va. The prison,

18

 

which is for females only, is the principal
place of incarceration for federal
prisoners, for long-term District of Co-
lumbia offenders, and for West Virginia
state prisoners.

Students visit Alderson regularly to
interview inmates. Meritorious cases,
both criminal and civil, found as a result
of these interviews are followed up and
handled in an appropriate manner.

Income from the Ritz-Alderson Legal
Assistance Fund will be used to provide
an annual cash prize to the best student
participant in the Alderson program.

‘*Although Bill Ritz has contributed
in countless ways to the law school, the
Alderson program may well be where he
has made the most lasting contribution to
the teaching process at Washington and
Lee,’’ said W&L law dean Frederic L.
Kirgis Jr. in announcing the establish-
ment of the fund.

Ritz received his bachelor’s degree
from Washington and Lee and then earn-
ed his LL.B. from the University of
Richmond and both the LL.M. and
S.J.D. degrees from Harvard.

He joined the faculty of the W&L law
school in 1953 after previously serving as
assistant professor of law at Wake
Forest.

At W&L he has taught a variety of
subjects, including criminal law and
American legal history. He has published
a comprehensive bibliography of

Wilfred J. Ritz, director of the law school’s Alderson Program, is blanked by former Alderson

American judicial proceedings from
before 1801. He is also the author of a
1983 volume, Virginia Automobile
Liability Insurance, which is designed to
assist practicing attorneys in dealing with
the complex and often confusing cases
arising from automobile insurance.

 

Reese awarded fellowship

 

Ronald L. Reese, associate professor
of physics at Washington and Lee, has
been awarded a summer faculty research
fellowship from the American Society of
Engineering Education.

Reese was one of 100 teachers selected
from 500 applicants for the fellowships.

Under the fellowship he will spend 10
weeks this summer working at the Naval
Research Laboratory in Washington, con-
ducting studies with the optical sciences
division. The work involves characterizing
the optical properties of new materials.

A member of the Washington and Lee
faculty since 1979, Reese’s teaching areas
at W&L include electronics and
astronomy.

Prior to joining the faculty at
Washington and Lee, he taught physics at
Pacific University, Worcester Polytechnic
Institute, and Bates College.

He is a graduate of Middlebury Col-
lege and received the Ph.D. degree from
Johns Hopkins

 

warden Virginia McLaughlin (right) and current warden G. H. Sizer,

 

Wells College honors Wilson

 

Washington and Lee President John
D. Wilson has been honored by the
establishment of a $1 million endowed
chair in his name at Wells College in
Aurora, N.Y.

Wilson served as president of Wells
from 1968 to 1975.

Announcement of the establishment
of both the Wilson Professorship and a
similar professorship in honor of Frances
Tarlton (Sissy) Farenthold, another
former Wells president, was made last
weekend during ceremonies on the
campus.

The Wilson and Farenthold Professor-
ships are the first Presidential Professor-
ships to be established at Wells.

Wilson was presented with a citation
in recognition of the occasion and
delivered remarks at the annual Honors
Convocation.

 

Schroer joins dean’s office

 

Anne C. P. Schroer, a counselor in
the Student Counseling Service at Texas
A&M University, has been appointed
associate dean of students at Washington
and Lee, effective August 1.

Announcement of the appointment
was made by Lewis G. John, dean of
students at W&L.

In addition to duties in the dean of
students office, Schroer will lend support
to Washington and Lee’s career planning
program.

‘Anne Schroer will be of great
assistance to the entire University com-
munity during our transition to coeduca-
tion in the undergraduate divisions this
fall,’ John said. ‘‘We are particularly
pleased that her background and ex-
perience will be a valuable asset in the
vitally important area of career counsel-
ing and placement.”’

Schroer received her education at the
University of Strasbourg in France, De-
fiance College in Ohio, Washington State
University, and the University of Nor-
thern Colorado. She received the Ph.D.
in college student personnel administra-
tion and counseling from Northern Col-
orado in 1977.

From 1977 to 1981 she was director
of counseling services for Houghton Col-
lege in New York state. In that capacity
she administered a personal and career

 

Schroer

counseling program for both a main cam-
pus in Houghton, N.Y., and a satellite
campus in Buffalo, N.Y.

She assumed her current duties in
Texas A&M’s Student Counseling Service
in 1981. She is involved in career
development, academic advising, and
psychological counseling at the College
Station, Tex., institution.

She is the author or co-author of
several publications about academic and
career counseling. She is a member of the
American Association for Counseling and
Development, the American College Per-
sonnel Association, and the National
Academic Advising Association. She
holds certifications from both the Na-
tional Board of Certified Career

Counselors and the National Academy of
Certified Clinical Mental Health
Counselors.

She was elected to Who’s Who of
American Women in 1983 and was a
Danforth Foundation Associate from
1978 to 1984 in recognition of
establishing effective communication
among faculty, students, and
administrators.

 

Anne Farrar joins
development staff

 

Anne Scott Farrar has been named
assistant director of development for
capital gifts at Washington and Lee.

Her duties will include the develop-
ment of support for faculty, student aid,
and academic programs. She will also be
responsible for the University’s donor
communications program.

She had served for the past six years
on the staff of the VMI Foundation, Inc.
From 1964 to 1976 she was acquisitions
librarian for VMI’s Preston Library.

A native of Lynchburg and a graduate
of Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
she is married to James D. Farrar, ’49,
director of the Alumni-Admissions Pro-
gram at Washington and Lee. The Far-
rars’ two sons are Washington and Lee
graduates—James D. Farrar Jr., ’74, and
Scott Farrar, ’76—and their daughter,
Anne Lovell, recently married Brice B.
Williams, 78.

 

 

 

 

 

Washington and Lee art professor Debora Rindge displays the famous 19th century portrait of
Thomas Jefferson by George P. A. Healy which was part of a special duPont Gallery show,
“The Streets of Lexington.’ The exhibit featured 76 paintings and photographs of people for
whom Lexington streets were named. The Jefferson portrait, part of the University collection,
has been on loan at the Governor’s Mansion in Richmond.

19

Le Gazette

 

 

Plaster Bust
by Charles Grafly
Is Presented
to W&L Fine Arts

“‘How like decaying vegetables are
most of our portraits besides his!’’

The early 20th-century critic Lorado
Taft used these words to express his
esteem for the sculptural portraits of
Charles Grafly. In less organic but more
straightforward praise, another critic
called Grafly ‘‘probably the foremost
American sculptor of male _ portrait-
busts.’’ Other contemporaries called him
the ‘‘Houdon of our time’’ and claimed
that ‘‘no sculptor in this country can
make a finer bust.’’

All of this praise was for Charles
Grafly, a turn-of-the-century
delphia sculptor and teacher. The celebra-
tion of modernism has meant that con-
servative, realistic work like Grafly’s is
not always remembered today. Wash-
ington and Lee has cause to remember it,
however, because of the recent gift of a
plaster portrait bust of Lieutenant Col-
onel Charles Milton McCorkle. The bust
was presented to the department of fine
arts by Anne McCorkle Knox,
McCorkle’s daughter. She chose to give
it to the school partly because of her own
ties to the college. Her husband, Robert
H. Knox, had taught mathematics at
W&L briefly; his son-in-law, Colonel
Nate L. Adams II, was a 1948 graduate;
and his grandson, Nate L. Adams III,
took his law degree at W&L in 1981.

There was another reason that Mrs.
Knox chose to give the bust to
Washington and Lee, however. It hap-
pens that the only piece of modern
research on Grafly’s career was written
by W&L associate professor of art
Pamela H. Simpson.

The surprising thing—and what Simp-
son considers a trifle embarrassing,
too—is that Simpson’s research was a
catalogue raisonne—that is, a complete

Phila-.

listing of all the work that Grafly had ever
done. Colonel McCorkle’s bust was not
in the catalogue because it was not known
to the author. Mrs. Knox’s gift thus pro-
vides an addition to scholarship as well
as an important addition to the Univer-
sity’s collections.

‘“‘The department of fine arts is
delighted to receive the bust, for it is a
good one,’’ said Simpson. ‘‘It was done
about 1908 and is an excellent example
of the portraiture that earned Grafly his
outstanding reputation.”’

Grafly had studied at the Penn-
sylvania Academy of Fine Arts and in
Paris at the Academie Julian. According
to Simpson, his style was one of lively
realism based on a profound understand-
ing of human anatomy. His reputation as
a portraitist began as early as the 1890s,
but he also did ‘‘ideal’’ work (symbolic
representations of ideas such as
‘‘wisdom, age,’’ and ‘‘nature’’) and
his share of public monuments (the Smith
Memorial, Philadelphia; the Buchanan
Statue, Lancaster, Pa; and the Meade

99 66

Memorial, Washington, D.C.). But por-

traiture came to dominate his sculptural
output in the period from 1900 to 1920.
Some of his best known portraits are
those of his friends, contemporary artists
such as Frank Duveneck, Paul Wayland
Bartlett, Thomas Anshutz, and William
McGregor Paxton. But he did hundreds
of portrait heads of lesser known in-
dividuals, and these, at $1,000 apiece,
formed the basis of his artistic income.

Why was Grafly so good? ‘‘Part of
the reason was that he thoroughly
understood how the human head was
constructed,’’ said Simpson. ‘‘He said
once, ‘You know a man by his build as
much as by his features, and the back of
the head is as revealing as the front.’ The
quality of his work is such that it went

 

beyond mere surface likeness. Not only
were his portraits solidly constructed,
with a sense of the bone structure beneath
the surface, but there was also a quality
of life in them. Looking at Grafly’s por-
traits one almost expects them to speak
or at least to think.’’

Simpson added that the portrait of
Charles McCorkle is typical of a series of
portraits that Grafly did of his students.
‘‘Often they were done as demonstration
pieces for a class, but sometimes they
were simply done out of his affection for
the sitter,’’ she said.

McCorkle (1874-1929) was a lawyer
from North Carolina who had an
amateur interest in sculpture. He was
serious enough about it, however, to
spend a series of summers studying at
Grafly’s Lanesville, Mass., summer
school. There McCorkle became such a
favorite of the Grafly family that he was
invited to live with them during his sum-
mer stays, and Grafly’s daughter kept a
steady correspondence with McCorkle’s
sisters for years. Mrs. Knox also
presented the department of fine arts with
a silver locket that Dorothy Grafly gave
to one of McCorkle’s sisters. Inside are
two photographs of the young Charles
McCorkle.

Grafly and McCorkle, teacher and
student, were 12 years apart in age. Yet
they both died in the same year. Grafly
was hit by an automobile while crossing
a street in Philadelphia; McCorkle died
of a heart attack.

The Grafly bust of McCorkle not on-
ly adds an important piece of represen-
tative American sculpture to the Univer-
sity’s collection, it will also serve as a
teaching device for W&L sculpture
students, demonstrating to them the
qualities that earned Grafly his reputation
as the ‘‘finest portraitist of the day.’’

 

20

 

 

Ballengee awarded
Lynchburg Citation

 

James M. Ballengee, rector of
Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees,
received the Lynchburg Citation from the
Lynchburg Alumni Chapter in April.

Ballengee, ’48L, has served as rector
since 1981. He was first elected to
membership on the Board in 1978.

In making the presentation to
Ballengee, the Lynchburg chapter cited
the ‘‘selfless spirit and quality of his
leadership in the governance of the
University during a challenging period re-
quiring the most dispassionate and pre-
scient judgement.”’

Further, the citation praised Ballengee
for ‘‘the constancy of his concern for the
total future vitality and character of the
University toward securing its rich
heritage and the traditions that support
and enhance its broad reputation for
excelence

Ballengee is president and chairman
of Enterra Corp., a holding company
based in Radnor, Pa.

 

W&L team examines
college students’ beliefs

 

A recently published study by two
Washington and Lee professors and a
former W&L student indicates that col-
lege students without strong religious
beliefs are more likely to believe in such
paranormal phenomena as ghosts, ESP,
and good luck charms.

Conversely, the study shows that
highly religious students have stronger
beliefs in such phenomena as life after
death and angels.

The study, published in the Winter
1985 edition of the Virginia Social
Science Journal, is entitled ‘‘Nonreligious
Paranormal Beliefs Among College
Students: Are They A Functional Alter-
native?’’ It was conducted by W&L pro-
fessor David G. Elmes and O. Kendall
White Jr. along with George U. Carneal
III, ’83, who is currently pursuing
graduate studies at Yale University.

The study is based upon data col-
lected from a survey of 230
undergraduate students from nine
southwestern Virginia colleges and univer-
sities who completed a four-part
questionnaire.

The respondents were asked about the
strength of their beliefs in the Loch Ness

  
   

Rector James M. Ballengee, ’48L, (left) and th

se
Ses x F
3 RECS SS eee ; pot

e Lynchburg Citation which he received from Tom

  

Pettyjohn, ’68, ’72L, during ceremonies following the Lynchburg Chapter’s annual banquet

monster, UFOs, the devil, and the ef-
ficacy of prayer among other items.

The W&L team concluded that the
non-religious paranormal beliefs may be
a functional alternative to ordinary
religion. But the findings indicate that
such beliefs generally are not as strong as
religious paranormal beliefs and do not
lead to the personal emotional
characteristics that seem to be associated
with strong religious beliefs.

Elmes is a professor of psychology;
White is an associate professor of
sociology and anthropology.

 

Newspaper readership
and political activity

 

Despite the increasing omnipresence
of television as a source for political
news, newspapers continue to play a
more important role in the United States’
political system, according to a
Washington and Lee University jour-
nalism professor.

In a paper presented in March at the
Southeastern Regional Spring Convention
of the American Association for Educa-
tion in Journalism and Mass Com-
munications, Hampden H. Smith III,
associate professor of journalism, cited
data that indicate that ‘‘newspaper
readership is a major determinant of
political knowledge and activity...

Further, he said the data show that
the strong relationship between
newspaper readership and political

+>

knowledge has remained constant over
time, indicating the relationship is not
simply the result of other, temporary
forces.

In his paper, Smith used figures from
the University of Michigan Center for
Political Studies’ 1972, 1976 and 1980
American National Election Studies to
show positive, and usually substantial,
correlations between newspaper reader-
ship and three gauges of political
knowledge and activity that he developed.
Those three gauges measure supportive
attitudes concerning voting, campaign ac-
tivity level, and a sense of personal
political efficacy.

For several decades, researchers have
found that the people who are most ac-
tive in politics tend to be well-educated,
be at least middle class, and have higher
incomes. Smith’s study indicates that
newspaper readership should be added to
education, class, and income as a major
determinant of political activity.

In addition, he compared people with
the same educational and income levels,
and he found that newspaper readership
continued to be closely related to political
knowledge and activity.

““It would seem that these are signifi-
cant findings, because the major impact
of education and class perception on
political knowledge and activity are wide-
ly recognized,’’ said Smith.

‘For newspaper readership to show
positive correlations with knowledge and
activity beyond the effect of those
demographic factors indicates that

21

& Gazette

newspaper readership is a substantial
predictor of political knowledge and
activity.”’

On the other hand, Smith’s study
found that watching television news
essentially has no relation to political
knowledge and activity. In fact, he said,
some data indicate that the more people
depend on television news the less likely
they are to be politically knowledgeable
or active.

A former editor with newspapers in
Staunton, Petersburg, and Richmond,
Smith has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1974.

 

Small business vital
to young workers

 

Sixty percent of American workers
between the ages of 16 and 19 surveyed
in the 1980 census were employed by
companies with fewer than 100
employees, according to a recent study
conducted by a Washington and Lee
economics professor and two Tennessee
economists.

Bruce Herrick, head of the depart-
ment of economics at Washington and
Lee, is the co-author of a research study
recently submitted to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Labor. Herrick collaborated with
Robert Gaston and Sharon Bell of Ap-
plied Economics Group, Inc., of Knox-
ville, Tenn., to prepare the study entitled
‘“Youth Employment Opportunity and
Firm Size: New Evidence.’’

The report analyzes data generated by
the Census Bureau’s Current Population
Survey dealing with employment condi-
tions encountered by young people in the
work force and with the size of the com-
panies for which they work.

According to Herrick, the study show-
ed that 60 percent of workers between
the ages of 16 and 19 worked for firms
with fewer than 100 employees while
almost half of all workers aged 20 to 24
also worked for such firms.

‘Of all the nation’s wage and salary
workers, one in eight was a young person
working for a small company,’’ said Her-
rick.

Herrick said that the policy implica-
tions that flow from the study’s findings
stress the importance of maintaining the
health of small business as a means of

The study also deals with employment
instability among teenagers, the racial
composition of young people working for
small companies, and the industrial and
occupational composition of that employ-
ment. The findings, said Herrick, suggest
that training programs and continuing
education deserve continued emphasis as
part of an economically effective public
policy.

Herrick, a specialist in the field of
economics in developing nations, and
Gaston have also been conducting a
research project for the Small Business
Administration. Herrick joined the W&L
faculty in 1980 after previously serving as
associate professor of economics at
UCLA. He is co-author of a textbook en-
titled Economic Development.

 

Honors, awards

 

e David F. Connor, a Washington
and Lee senior from Frederick, Md., has
been awarded a Fulbright grant for
graduate study next year in Germany.

The Fulbright program awards
scholarships annually for graduate study
in some 58 foreign countries. Since 1945
Washington and Lee has had at least one
Fulbright recipient every year except one.

Connor, who is majoring in political
science and German at W&L, will use his
grant to conduct research at the Universi-
ty of Bonn.

His project will involve researching
the political implications for West Ger-
many of declining birth rates.

e David L. Harrar II, a Washington
and Lee senior from Rydal, Pa., and Jef-
frey S. Gee, a 1984 graduate from
Johnson City, Tenn., have won National
Science Foundation Fellowships for
Graduate Study.

They were among 540 fellowship win-
ners chosen from 4,400 applicants. The
fellowships are for graduate study in the
natural and social sciences, mathematics,
and engineering.

A mathematics and physics major at
Washington and Lee, Harrar will use the
fellowship to pursue graduate studies in
the department of applied mathematics at
the University of Virginia.

Gee, who is currently studying in Ger-
many on an ITT Fellowship, will attend
the Scripps Institute at the University of
California at San Diego.

e The Washington and Lee student
newspaper, The Ring-tum Phi, was the
recipient of several awards in competition
among Virginia college newspapers spon-
sored by the Virginia Intercollegiate Mass
Communications Association.

The awards were for the 1983-84
academic year.

Three Ring-tum Phi staff writers won
first-place honors in the competition: Ed-
die Curran, ’84, in feature writing; junior
Mike Stachura of Carlisle, Pa., in sports
column writing; and junior Mike Allen of

 

Students in W&L’s business policy class participate in an annual seminar on corporate strategy
and planning led by Jack Jordon (left), vice president of planning and human resources for
Bethlehem Steel and George Guernsey, senior vice president of planning for First Chicago Bank.

employment generation for workers in
their teens and early 20s.

ad

Rossmoor, Calif., in investigative reporting.

Senior G. Bruce Potter of Richmond
was second in both general news writing
and investigative reporting categories.

The Ring-tum Phi was second in the
overall sweepstakes award and placed
third in both the excellence of the front
page and excellence in general makeup
categories.

Potter and Allen are co-editors of this
year’s Ring-tum Phi while Stachura is the
paper’s sports editor.

e Twenty Washington and Lee
sophomores have been elected to
membership in Phi Eta Sigma, the na-
tional honor society recognizing academic
excellence in the freshman year.

The minimal precondition for
membership in Phi Eta Sigma is a 3.5
cumulative grade point during the
freshman year.

Initiated into membership in February
were:

James Henry Barker of Tampa, Fla.;
Thomas Jordan Boyd of Winchester,
Va.; Erik David Curren of Chicago, IIl.;
Paul Edward Henson III of Dalton, Ga.;
Gilbert Russell Ladd IV of Mobile, Ala.;
Robert Todd Lafargue Jr. of Shreveport,
La.; Jeffrey Scott Mandak of Clifton,
N.J.; Craig Allen Matzdorf of Baldwin,
Md.; Timothy Gerard McMahon of Elm
Grove, Wis.;

Brent Michael O’Boyle of San Jose,
Calif.; Steven Frederick Pockrass of In-
dianapolis, Ind.; John Prescott Rowe of
Richmond, Va.; Luis Sa of Rio de
Janiero, Brazil; Christopher Michael
Sherlock of Commack, N.Y.; Robert
Zachery Slappey of Deland, Fla.;
Thomas Werth Thagard III of Mont-
gomery, Ala.; Jonathan Lee Thornton of
Forest, Va.; Matthew Jude Waterbury of
St. Petersburg Beach, Fla.; John Thomas
Wiltse of Newington, Conn.; Grayson
Paige Wingert of Hanover, Pa.

e William H. Lilly, a Washington
and Lee freshman from Jackson, Miss.,
has become the third W&L student in as
many years to win a full scholarship for
a year’s study at Rikkyo University in
Japan.

Lilly will attend Rikkyo, which is
located in Tokyo, from September 1985
until July 1986.

Washington and Lee has had an ex-
change program with Rikkyo since 1977
and is one of four American institutions
with which Rikkyo has an exchange
program.

 

The ROTC unit honored its top participants during the annual President’s Day ceremonies. From
left, President John D. Wilson, junior Mark Bertolini, senior Greg Lukanuski, senior Robert
Tomaso, and Lt. Col. Luke B. Ferguson, professor of military science.

Lilly is no stranger to Japan. He at-
tended school at Momoyama Gakuin in
Osaka during the 1981-82 academic year
as part of an exchange program between
Momoyama Gakuin and Saint Andrews
Episcopal School in Jackson.

While at Rikkyo, Lilly will take
courses in Japanese literature and history
and in psychology. He will continue the
study of the Japanese language he has
been pursuing at Washington and Lee.
He plans to major in East Asian Studies
at W&L.

¢ Greg Lukanuski, a senior from
Mechanicsburg, Pa., has been awarded
the University saber as the recipient of
the Washington and Lee Corps of Cadets
Outstanding Cadet Award as elected by
the members of W&L’s Army ROTC
unit.

Senior Robert J. Tomaso of Milford,
Mass., won the Major Ronald O. Scharn-
berg Memorial Award, presented to the
cadet who most nearly typifies the
Washington and Lee tradition of the
citizen-scholar-soldier. The award is
presented in memory of Maj. Ronald
Oliver Scharnberg, 63, who was killed in
action.

Junior Mark A. Bertolini of Bellerose,
N.Y., received the George C. Marshall
ROTC Award as the cadet who
demonstrates the leadership and
scholastic qualities which epitomized Gen.
Marshall’s career.

 

Faculty Activities

 

e A paper written by a Washington
and Lee physics professor and a W&L
student has been published in the latest
issue of the American Journal of Physics.

Ronald L. Reese, associate professor
of physics at W&L, and junior Lawrence
S. Anker of East Windsor, N.J., are the
authors of the article entitled ‘“Two-port
network parameters: An application of
linear algebraic techniques.’’

Anker developed the paper, which ap-
plies a junior-level mathematics technique
to a sophomore-level course, when he
was a freshman at W&L. The paper was
accepted for publication on a competitive
basis in which only one out of every
seven papers submitted is published.

Anker is a Robert E. Lee
Undergraduate Research Scholar at
Washington and Lee. Reese has been a
member of the W&L faculty since 1979.

e The on-going racial struggle in
South Boston, Mass., and the concept of
power in that struggle provided the topic
for a paper written by Washington and
Lee University sociology professor David
R. Novack.

Novack’s paper, entitled ‘‘Forced Bus-
ing in South Boston: Class, Race and the
Third Dimension of Power,’’ was
presented at the annual meeting of
the Eastern Sociological Society, which
was held in Philadelphia.

23

df Gazette

In the paper, Novack examines the
significance of the third dimension of
power, which is defined by social scien-
tists as the manipulation of
consciousness.

Novack argues that the conflicts be-
tween white working class residents of
South Boston and the neighboring black
areas is more broadly based than racial
strife might indicate.

The South Boston residents, suggests
Novack, are engaged more fundamentally
in a conflict with black people who share
access to the same lower and working
class positions. The problem is com-
pounded by antagonism between South
Boston residents and middle- and upper-
class white people in neighboring
suburbs.

Novack, who is a native of Boston,
has been conducting research on various
topics involving South Boston for several
years. His latest research has been funded
largely by a John M. Glenn Grant from
Washington and Lee.

e Gordon P. Spice, associate pro-
fessor of music at Washington and Lee,
was recently elected president of the In-
tercollegiate Musical Council, a national
association of collegiate and secondary
school male choruses.

Spice, who has served as secretary of
the organization since 1979, was elected
at the IMC’s annual seminar held in Salt
Lake City in conjunction with the na-
tional convention of the American Choral
Director’s Association.

Founded in 1920, the Intercollegiate
Musical Council lists approximately 50
male choruses among its members, in-
cluding the finest college glee clubs in
America. The Council serves its members
through a library of male chorus reper-
toire, a series of published music for
male chorus, a journal published three
times annually, and an annual seminar,
the next to be held at Harvard University
in March 1986.

Spice has led the Washington and Lee
Glee Club on six international concert
tours since 1973. A recent performance
by the W&L Glee Club with five other
collegiate male choruses at Loyola Mary-
mount University in Los Angeles was
sponsored by the Intercollegiate Musical
Council choruses of Southern California.

e Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., dean of
Washington and Lee’s School of Law,
has been elected vice president and a
member of the board of the American
Society of International Law.

24

 

W&L senior produces,
directs senior thesis

 

The central character lived more than
300 years ago. The play was written
almost 40 years ago. But most of the im-
agery, and especially the computer
graphics from the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, could hardly
have been more modern.

When Washington and Lee University
senior drama major Christopher Lillja
began planning his senior thesis more
than a year ago, his aim was to create
just such a blend of the ancient and the
modern in a production of Bertolt
Brecht’s Galileo.

The curtain went up in March on Lill-
ja’s senior thesis project —a ‘‘high-tech”’
production of Galileo that Lillja produc-
ed and directed.

‘*T hope that what came through is a
sense of just how far we’ve progressed
from the moment when Galileo first gaz-
ed into the heavens to where we are now
ready to build cities in the sky,’’ explain-
ed Lillja.

Lillja’s basic plan was to put the
characters in period costumes and have
them deliver their lines in front of an
enormous screen on which the modern
images are shown. When Galileo decides
to pursue research into sun spots, a
NASA film of sun spots flashes on the
screen behind him.

‘‘From the first moment that I decid-
ed to do a Brecht play, I knew there
would be a giant screen behind the

players,’ said Lillja. ‘‘It is fairly com-
mon to play Brecht this way by projec-
ting images on a screen. I would imagine,
though, that some of these films are so
new that these particular images have
never been used.’’

In addition to the sun spots from
NASA, Lillja projected footage showing
the earth from outer space and used
Department of the Army footage of an
atomic bomb detonation as the climax
for the production.

‘*T began working toward this produc-
tion two years ago, first by reading
everything I could by and about Bertolt
Brecht,’’ said Lillja. ‘‘A year ago I
settled on Galileo and have been working
toward it ever since.

**l chose Galileo because I think it
has the strongest relevance of any play to
current events, the current world situa-
tion. No one seems to speak so clearly
about today’s world than Brecht did in
this play.

‘*The play addresses such issues as the
problem of saving our environment and
the problem of the arms race. Brecht had
written an earlier version of the play
prior to World War II but changed the
play considerably after Hiroshima
because he realized that science had to be
directed by the forces of humanity, not
simply by the forces of profit and
greed.

Lillja considered Galileo a learning
play—a play ‘‘to teach Galileo’s story’”’
to the audience.

Galileo featured Mark Daughtrey, ’74,
in the lead role.

 

 

 

The rapid changes in today’s world
have created an environment that
demands the particular traits and talents
of liberally-educated people, Samuel W.
Spencer, president of the Virginia Foun-
dation for Independent Colleges, told a
Lee Chapel audience in March at the
University’s annual Phi Beta Kap-
pa/Society of Cincinnati Convocation.

Spencer, former president of David-
son College, was the featured speaker for
the convocation at which 42 new in-
ductees into W&L’s chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa were recognized.

Referring to several recent reports that
have been critical of American higher
education, Spencer said that those recent
critiques are justified in suggesting that
‘‘we have not yet found a way within our
current undergraduate program to realize
fully the goals of liberal learning.’’

But, he added, those critical studies
ought to be seen as a necessary preface
to ‘‘a reconstructed structure of the
teaching and learning process.’’

Though today’s highly technological
world does require those specialists from
what Spencer called the ‘‘tinker’’ tradi-
tion, he argued that in addition to the
tinkers ‘‘we also need the thinkers which
liberal education at its best can, and
should, provide.”’

Noting that liberal arts is ‘‘the most
difficult of our educational programs to
get a handle on,’’ Spencer said that the
liberal arts program, ‘‘especially in an age
enamoured of technology and material
things, must continually make clear that
what it seeks to do is worthwhile.’’

Spencer distinguished between general
education, which he said ‘‘consists
primarily of a fixed basis of rudimentary
skills and knowledge,”’ and liberal educa-
tion, which he called ‘‘a free-formed con-
struct dealing primarily with ideas.’’

‘‘A student derives knowledge for
general education second hand, from
someone else’s distillation or ar-
rangements of what the past has produc-
ed,’’ said Spencer. ‘‘The liberally-
educated person cannot be satisfied with
the distortion which inevitably results
from looking at the landscape only with
lenses provided by someone else.”’

Spencer said that it is only by such ex-
amination of the primary material can
one develop the fundamental skill of the
liberally-educated person—that is, the
ability to think critically.

Spencer

Spencer Addresses
Phi Beta Kappa

 

‘*Critical thinking is the application of
one’s own intelligence, experience, and
value judgements to both subject matter
and ideas,’’ said Spencer. ‘‘Beyond the
skill of critical thinking is the develop-
ment of the critical attitude... .The
liberally-educated person, in any matter
of importance, never takes anything for
granted, never signs without first reading
the fine print, never accepts the gospel ac-
cording to someone else.

‘*To be liberally educated, as distinct
from having a good general education, is
to reach intellectual self-reliance, to come
of age intellectually, to develop the true
freedom of the mind and spirit necessary
for coping with an ever-changing
environment.’’

While some have argued that the
technological revolution has made liberal
disciplines irrelevant, Spencer said it can
be argued that the accelerating pace of
change has made liberal education even
more relevant.

Also, he noted Washington and Lee’s
impending change from an all-male to a
coeducational undergraduate student
body and observed that ‘‘we must rid
ourselves of the last vestiges of outworn
attitudes based on genders. All of our
students, men and women, must have an
education which will enable them to func-

 

tion successfully in a world that will be
even more different by the turn of the
century.”’

Spencer was president of Davidson,
his undergraduate alma mater from 1968
to 1983 when he retired to become presi-
dent of the VFIC, which raises funds to
help support independent colleges in
Virginia. Under Spencer’s leadership, the
VFIC raised more than $2.5 million from
business and industry in 1983-84.

Thirty-eight Washington and Lee
undergraduates and three 1984 graduates
of W&L were inducted into membership
in W&L’s Gamma of Virginia Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa.

1984 GRADUATES: Alfred J. Gan-
non Jr. of Oak Hill, W.Va.; Anthony J.
Interrante of Dallas; G. Leighton Stradt-
man of Columbia, S.C.

SENIORS: Martin A. Berisford III of
White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.; Jeffrey
P. Blount of Delmar, N.Y.; C. Joseph
Cadle of Milford, Ohio; Luke L. Chang
of Dallas; David F. Connor of Frederick,
Md.; Samuel P. Dalton of Springfield,
Mo.; Charles R. DePoy of Weirton,
W.Va.; Jeffrey D. Dixon of Duncan,
Okla.; David A. Eustis of Bronxville,
N.Y.; Apostolos G. Grekos of Danville,
Va.

Andrew G. Haring of Mansfield,
Ohio; David H. Jones of Lynchburg;
Kevin H. Kelley of San Antonio, Texas;
Clark J. Lewis of Richmond; John D.
Long of Dix Hills, N.Y.; Michael C. Lord
of Vincentown, N.J.; William A. Maner
of Atlanta; James K. Murphy of
Worcester, Mass.; Kenneth S. Nankin of
Columbia, S.C.

Robert A. Schlegel of Gray, Maine;
G. Bruce Potter of Richmond; Scot C.
Schultz of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Michael
M. Shelton of Yorktown, Va.; B. Scott
Tilley of Richmond; Jay Wallace of
Dallas; Kevin A. Welch of North
Bellmore, N.Y.; Peter T. Wilbanks of
Seaford, Del.

JUNIORS: Edwin L. Barnes of Rock
Hill, S.C.; John-Paul Bouffard of
Berkeley Heights, N.J.; Joseph C. Camp-
bell Jr. of Buena Vista, Va.; Henry Ex-
all IV of Dallas; David S. Harvey of
Georgetown, S.C.; Kenneth L. Lindeman
of Atlanta; John D. McCaffery of
Monroe, Mich.; Jeffrey A. Roper of
Terre Haute, Ind.; Luis Sa of Rio de
Janiero, Brazil; Robert E. Treat of Man-
chester Center, Vt.; and Cranston R.
Williams of Roanoke.

 

 

de Gazette

 

Of cranes and ravens

 

This is the story of one crane, six
ravens, two biologists, and a rather
unusual way that industry has given
much-needed support to higher
education.

The story began a year ago when
Peter Bergstrom, assistant professor of
biology at Washington and Lee, located
three ravens’ nests at different locations
in Rockbridge County. Bergstrom, whose
specialty is ornithology, and a W&L stu-
dent, Stephen Smith, began a research
project to study the behavior and ecology
of ravens, which happen to be the
world’s largest song birds.

‘*Ravens are not all that rare, but
they are usually found in remote moun-
tain areas,’’ says Bergstrom. ‘‘Many peo-
ple undoubtedly confuse ravens with
crows, which is easy to do. Aside from a
slight difference in the shape of the tail
feathers, the only sure way to tell them
apart is by the voice.’’

Last spring Bergstrom and Smith
observed the birds’ behavior from blinds
they erected near the nests, which were
located at Goshen Pass, the Ben Salem
Wayside, and the Barger Quarry.

This year, Bergstrom continued the
project with two W&L students, J. Ed-
ward Newton and Mark Farley, and the
team located one raven’s nest. It was
again in Barger Quarry, but in a different
part of the quarry.

With permission from quarry owner
Charles Barger of Barger and Sons, a
Lexington construction company,
Bergstrom and the students spent several
weeks observing the ravens’ activities
from a blind. They measured the amount
of time the female spent incubating, how
often the male fed the female during in-
cubation, and how often the parents fed
the four nestlings that were hatched.

In order to proceed to the next step in
the project, Bergstrom determined that he
would need to band the nestlings before
they were old enough to leave the nest.

There was a hurdle to that next step,
however. The nest was built into a rock
wall of the quarry about SO feet off the
ground and 50 feet from the top of the
wall.

The only feasible way of reaching the
nest was to have a crane drop a platform
down to the nest.

That is where another local business
stepped forward to give the project its

26

necessary boost. Since the crane operated
by Barger and Sons was not available
during the week when the nestlings need-
ed to be tagged, Buck Holland of
Holland General Contractors offered his
company’s crane.

On a sunny afternoon in mid-April
the Holland crane with its 70-foot boom
arrived at the Barger Quarry. Bergstrom
and Cleveland P. Hickman III, professor
of biology, boarded a platform which
was lifted into the air by the crane and,
with some added assistance from backhoe
operator Woody Edwards, dropped over
the wall to the cliff nestlings.

Once the two biologists were in posi-
tion next to the nest, the banding pro-
cedure took almost an hour to complete.

 

Above, Bergstrom and Hickman remove a
raven nestling from a cliffside nest. At left,
Bergstrom tags one of the ravens.

Each nestling was banded with a
numbered leg band provided by the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service. Then, fabric
tags were placed on each nestling’s
wing—a different color combination for
each bird in order to provide individual
identification.

‘‘The young have to be banded when
they are about four weeks old,’’ explain-
ed Bergstrom. ‘‘That is when they are old
enough for a tag to be attached to their
wings, but not so old that they are ready
to leave the nest.’’

As part of a Robert E. Lee Research
Project, Bergstrom, Newton, and Farley
will use the tags to locate the young after
they leave the nest and to determine
whether the ravens return to the area
next year.

‘*A raven will stay with its parents for
at least four months after leaving the
nest, then it is uncertain where the bird
goes,’’ said Bergstrom.

‘*By banding and tagging these nest-
lings, we will be able to follow them and
get a better idea of the size of the ravens’
home range —that is, whether they fly
over to Buena Vista or to Goshen or up
to the Blue Ridge Parkway. This will also
provide us with some insight into what
the birds are feeding on and, perhaps,
even on their longevity. Ravens have been
known to use the same nest for as long
as 30 years.’’

Now that the local businesses have
given an invaluable assist, Bergstrom is
hoping the rest of the Rockbridge County
community will help, too, by reporting
any sightings of the tagged birds.

Chapter News

Glee Club’s California Tour Brings West Coast Chapters Together

 

ORANGE COUNTY—Listening to remarks by Paul Brower, ’68, are
(seated from left) Earle Richmond, ’31L; Mrs. Richmond; Jack Bar-
rie, °42; and Mrs. Barrie.

 

~<a

LOS ANGELES—Ken Ruscio, ’76, (left) greets Allen Peterson, the
father of one of Washington and Lee’s Early Decision students who
will enroll at the University in the fall.

Following the advice of Horace Greeley and the inspiration
of the Beach Boys, Washington and Lee’s Glee Club headed
west in February for a 10-day California tour that provided
the focal point for a series of chapter functions.

Between singing engagements at Disneyland, the Westwood
Presbyterian Church, Loyola Marymount College, and Santa
Catalina School, the Glee Club met with alumni from one end
of California to another.

The Orange County Chapter was treated to a performance
by Southern Comfort at a meeting Feb. 15 at The Registry
Hotel in Irvine. The chapter meeting, arranged by Jim Stan-
ton, ’82, and Jack Norberg, ’80, included plans for a
Southern California Regional Scholarship outlined by Paul
Brower, ’68, chapter president.

Jack Klinedinst, ’71, ’78L, arranged for the Glee Club’s
performance for the San Diego Chapter on Feb. 17 at the Sea-
point Clubhouse in Del Mar.

The Los Angeles Chapter held a dinner meeting Feb. 19 at
the UCLA Faculty Center. Dave McLean, ’78, chapter presi-
dent, presided over the event that had been arranged by Ken
Ruscio, ’78. W&L Associate Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins,
°68, made remarks before the entire dinner party went to the

 

 

Disneyland, members of Washington and Lee’s Southern Comfort
entertain guests at the San Diego Chapter’s meeting.

 

pets eS

 

. Le : a

SAN FRANCISCO—Conversing during the San Francisco Chapter’s
reception for the touring Glee Club are Win Kock, ’61, (left) and
Scott Franklin, ’77.

Westwood Presbyterian Church to hear Southern Comfort’s
performance and to meet the Glee Club.

Although the Glee Club arrived late for the San Francisco
Chapter meeting at the University Club on Feb. 22, they made
up for the tardiness with a performance for the alumni. Nat
Baker, ’67, chapter president, was in charge of arrangements
for the event at which Trustee Jerry South and his wife,
Marilyn, were in attendance.

x * *

During April several alumni chapters held gatherings to
welcome new students from their areas. The Memphis Chapter
welcomed Bill Hartog, director of admissions, at its reception
April 16. The Philadelphia Chapter greeted prospective
members of the Class of 1989 at the Free Quaker Meeting
House on April 10.

The Lynchburg Chapter included the new students at its
annual banquet April 18 when Rector James M. Ballengee
received the Lynchburg Citation (see Gazette). The Delmarva
Chapter combined a reception for incoming freshmen and
their parents with a picnic at the home of Hila and Hurtt Der-
inger, parents of W&L junior lacrosse player Caulley Der-

27

 

 

OREGON—Participants at the Oregon Chapter’s dinner meeting are PUGET SOUND—Four of Washington and Lee’s recent law
(from left) Cleve Abbe, ’81L; his wife, Trish Brown, ’81L; Tudor graduates who have settled in the Seattle area are (from left) Sally
Hall, ’60, the chapter president; and Betsy Trainer, wife of Norman Stanfield, ’°81L; Suzanne Barnett, ’81L; Jane North, ’84L; and Cyndy

Frink, °77L. Grace, ’81L.

S ue

CHARLESTON, S.C.—Among those who attended the Charleston HILTON HEAD—Attending first dinner meeting of the new Hilton

Chapter’s meeting to hear President Wilson were (from left) Park Head Chapter were Elizabeth Hotstetter; Lawton Calhoun, °37; Mary
Smith, ’51; Katie Salmons; Richard Salmons, ’51; and Jeanne Smith. Anne Calhoun; and Max Hostetter, ’31L.

\
RICHMOND—The Richmond Chapter’s luncheon meeting included NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—John Elrod (left), dean of the College,
(from left) Trustee Chris Compton, 50, 53L; Rector Emeritus John greets participants in the Northern New Jersey meeting. From left,
Newton Thomas, ’24; Bill Jenks, ’39, Kenan Professor of History Elrod; John Walbridge, *55; Delia Walbridge; and Russ Hewit, ’74,
Emeritus who was the feature speaker; and Bob Priddy, °67, chapter °77L, chapter president.
president.
inger, following the Generals’ lacrosse game with Washington Carolina Yacht Club. Hagood Morrison, ’79, the chapter
College on April 20. president, presided over the meeting and welcomed Alumni

x * * Board member John Folsom, ’73, and his wife, English, of
OREGON. After touring California with the Glee Club, Columbia, S.C.
Association Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, °68, headed HILTON HEAD. More than 40 alumni from the Hilton Head

north for a dinner meeting with the Oregon Chapter in

and Savannah areas attended the first dinner meeting of the
Portland. Tudor Hall, ’60, arranged the gathering.

new chapter on March 7. President Wilson was the featured
PUGET SOUND. Mike Gallagher, ’79, was elected president of speaker. Lewis Martin, 735, is president of the chapter. Bill

the Puget Sound Chapter during a dinner meeting in Seattle Bowen, ’61, made the arrangements for the meeting at the
on Feb. 26. Participants included Ray Haman, ’52L, past Harbor Town Clubhouse.
president of the Law Council, and one Early Decision student, WINSTON-SALEM. Although their California tans had fad-

Bill Webb of Bellevue, Wash. ed, the W&L Glee Club was still in voice when it presented a
CHARLESTON. President John D. Wilson continued to make concert at Salem College on March 16. Members of the

his rounds of the alumni chapters, addressing the first meeting Winston-Salem and Greensboro chapters gathered for a recep-
of the Charleston Chapter in four years on March 6 at the tion prior to the concert.

28

RICHMOND. William Jenks, the Kenan Professor of History
Emeritus at Washington and Lee, addressed a luncheon
meeting of the Richmond Chapter on March 19. He spoke
about the alumni tour he recently led to Eastern Europe. Bob
Priddy, ’67, chapter president, conducted the meeting and in-
troduced former Rector John Newton Thomas, ’24, and cur-
rent Trustee A. Christian Compton, ’50, 53L.

WASHINGTON. The Washington Chapter held the first of its
planned Quarterly Alumni Luncheons on March 29 in the
Mayflower Hotel under the direction of Waller T. Dudley,
°74, chapter president.

MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL. President Wilson spoke with
alumni and parents of students from the Twin Cities at the
Minneapolis Club on April 10. It was the second formal
meeting of the chapter since its formation.

TIDEWATER. More than 100 guests attended the annual
oyster roast of the Tidewater Chapter, held on April 13 at the
Norfolk Boat Club.

LYNCHBURG. Tom Pettyjohn Jr., ’68, was elected president
of the Lynchburg Chapter during its meeting April 18. Stuart
Fauber, ’70, was elected vice president and Ted Craddock,
’68, is the new secretary-treasurer. Lea Booth, ’40, the out-
going president, presided over the meeting during which Presi-
dent Wilson paid special tribute to Bert and Helene Schewel
for the scholarship fund they recently established at the
University.

NORTHERN NEW JERSEY. John Elrod, dean of the Col-
lege, was the principal speaker at a meeting of the Northern
New Jersey Chapter on April 26 at Baltusrol Golf Club.

 

APPALACHIAN—Michael E. Riley, ’72, 9 Braemar, Bristol, Va. 24201
ARKANSAS—Lee S. Thalheimer, ’73, No. 1 Capitol Mall, 4B-206, Little Rock, Ark. 72201
ATLANTA—J. Lane Nalley, ’74, Trust Company Bank, P. O. Box 4418, Atlanta, Ga. 30302
AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—Charles R. Chittum, ’69, Box 78, Churchville, Va. 24421
BALTIMORE—Thomas N. Keigler, ‘77, McDonogh School, McDonogh, Md. 21208
BIRMINGHAM—Ralph H. Smith II, ’73, Johnston Barton Proctor Swedlaw & Naff, 1100
Park Place Tower, Birmingham, Ala. 35203

BLUE RIDGE—Homer D. Winter III, ’69, 435 Willwood Drive, Earlysville, Va. 22936
CENTRAL FLORIDA—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun Bank, N.A., 200S. Orange Avenue,
Orlando, Fla. 32801

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Thomas B. Shepherd III, ’84L, Watkins Ludlam & Stennis, P.
O. Box 427, Jackson, Miss. 39205

CHARLESTON, S.C.—J. Hagood Morrison, ’79, 19 State Street, Charleston, S.C. 29401
CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75, 1427 Quarrier Street, No. 2, Charleston,
W.Va. 25301

CHARLOTTE—Scott M. Stevenson, ’76, 2222 Forest Drive, Charlotte, N.C. 28211
CHATTANOOGA—Allen C. Brown, ’72, Brown Associates, Inc., 819 Broad Street, Chat-
tanooga, Tenn. 37402

CHICAGO—Timothy F. Haley, ’73, 1426 Asbury Avenue, Winnetka, Ill. 60093
CLEVELAND—Thomas E. Goss Jr., ’80, McDonald & Company Securities, 2100 Central
National Bank Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114

CUMBERLAND VALLEY—William M. Schildt, °64, ’68L, Strite & Schildt, 138 W.
Washington Street, Suite 200, Hagerstown, Md. 21740

DALLAS—J. Bowman Williams, ’75, 4304 Windsor Parkway, Dallas, Texas 75205
DELAWARE-—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 123 King William Street, Newark, Del. 19711
DELMARVA—Alex P. Rasin III, ’65, Rasin & Rasin, Box 228, Chestertown, Md. 21620
DENVER—Charles W. Pride, ’72, Omni Commercial Brokerage Company, Inc., 4805 E. Ken-
tucky Avenue, Suite 108, Denver, Colo. 80222

DETROIT—John F. Mozena, ’67, 274 Lewiston Road, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. 48236
EASTERN KENTUCKY—John R. Bagby, ’73, Prudential-Bache Securities, 301 E. Vine Street,
Lexington, Ky. 40507

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—Gregory B. Crampton, ’69, 3317 Alleghany Drive, Raleigh,
N.C. 27609

FLORIDA WEST COAST—James O. Davis III, ’79, Carlton Fields Ward Emmanuel Smith
& Cutler, P.O. Box 3239, Tampa, Fla. 33601

FORT WORTH—Tom L. Larimore, ’59, The Western Company of North America, P.O.
Box 186, Fort Worth, Texas 76101

GREENSBORO—William K. Dunker, 56, 831 Cornwallis Drive, Greensboro, N.C. 27408
GULF STREAM—Me reer K. Clarke, ’66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301 Alfred I. DuPont Bldg.,
Miami, Fla. 33131

HILTON HEAD—Lewis W. Martin, ’35, 100 Governors Road, Hilton Head Island, S.C. 29928
HOUSTON—Robert LaRue, ’72, P.O. Box 3326, Houston, Texas 77253
INDIANAPOLIS—Mark L. Dicken, ’78L, P.O. Box 44128, Indianapolis, Ind. 46204
JACKSONVILLE—Sidney S. Simmons III, ’80, 1200 Barnett Bank Bldg., Jacksonville, Fla.
32202

KANSAS CITY—William S. Ridge, 60, Gateway Chemical Co., 118 S.W. Boulevard, Kan-
sas City, Mo. 64112

LONG ISLAND—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., ’41, 174 Parsons Drive, Hempstead, L.I.,
N.Y. 11550

LOS ANGELES—David J. McLean, ’78, Latham & Watkins, 555 S. Flower St., 46th Floor,
Los Angeles, Calif. 90071-2466

LOUISVILLE—Thomas H. Wall IV, ’75, Johnson & Higgins, 500 Brown & Williamson Tower,
Louisville, Ky. 40202-2504

LYNCHBURG—A. Lea Booth, ’40, 208 Rowland Drive, Lynchburg, Va. 24503
MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Clay T. Jackson, ’76, Coopers Love Jackson Co., P.O. Box 139,
Nashville, Tenn. 37202

MID-SOUTH—Thomas F. Baker IV, ’71, 2137 Rolling Valley Drive, Germantown, Tenn. 38138
MINNESOTA—Thomas H. McCarthy, ’79, Campbell-Mithun Advertising, 222 S. Ninth Street,
Minneapolis, Minn. 55402

 

W&L Alumni Chapter Presidents

MOBILE—Clifton I. Morrissette, 83, P.O. Box 1646, Mobile, Ala. 36633
MONTGOMERY-J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64, 1655 Gilmer Avenue, Montgomery, Ala. 36104
NEW ENGLAND—No President

NEW ORLEANS—John F. Carrere Jr., 69, 6033 Constance Street, New Orleans, La. 70118
NEW YORK—David L. Dowler, ’69, 645 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY—Russell L. Hewit, ’74, ’77L, 58 Fairview, Chatham, N.J. 07928
NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, Route 1, Box 236, Shreveport, La.
71115

OKLAHOMA CITY—John C. McMurry, ’66, 625 N.W. 13th Street, Oklahoma City, Okla.
73103

ORANGE COUNTY—Paul A. Brower, ’68, 23961 Calle de la Magadalena, Suite 534, Laguna
Hills, Calif. 92653

OREGON—H. Tudor Hall III, 60, Cessna Finance Corp., 999 Northwest Frontage Road,
Troutdale, Ore. 97060

PALM BEACH-FT. LAUDERDALE—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 129 Le Hane Terrace, North
Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

PALMETTO—Leslie A. Cotter Jr., ’80, 44 Quail Lane, Columbia, S.C. 29206
PENINSULA—Conway H. Sheild III, °64, °67L, James Blechman Woltz Kelly, Box 78,
Newport News, Va. 23607

PENSACOLA—C. Miner Harrell, ’71, 2403 Tronjo Place, Pensacola, Fla. 32503
PHILADELPHIA—Martin F. Bowers, ’80, 65 Upper Gulph Road, Strafford, Pa. 19087
PHOENIX—Walter E. Hunter, ’50, 6349 N. 78th Street, No. 143, Scottsdale, Ariz. 85253
PITTSBURGH—Richard M. Johnston, ’56, Hillman Co., 2000 Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.
15219

PUGET SOUND—J. Michael Gallagher, ’79, The Old Vinecourt Bldg., 300 Vine Street, Suite
4, Seattle, Wash. 98121

RICHMOND—Robert B. Priddy, 67, Alex Brown & Sons, 7th & Cary Streets, Richmond,
Va. 23219

ROANOKE—Arnold P. Masinter, ’62, 2430 Cornwallis Avenue, S.E., Roanoke, Va. 24014
ROCKBRIDGE—Greg C. Raetz, ’71, 611 Stonewall Street, Lexington, Va. 24450

ST. LOUIS—J. J. Landers Carnal, ’79, 35 Woodcrest Drive, St. Louis, Mo. 63124

SAN ANTONIO—Carl P. Flanagan III, ’75, Cigna Corp., InterFirst Financial Center, N.W.,
6243 IH 10, Suite 1001, San Antonio, Texas 78201 .

SAN DIEGO—John D. Klinedinst, ’71, Klinedinst & Meiser, 1241 State Street, San Diego,
Calif. 92101

SAN FRANCISCO BAY—W. Nat Baker, ’67, 2737 Polk Street, Apt. No. 5, San Francisco,
Calif., 94109

SHENANDOAH—William W. Pifer, ’76, Box 725, Winchester, Va. 22601

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—E. Phifer Helms, ’74, Banker’s Trust, P.O. Box 608,
Greenville, S.C. 29602

SOUTHERN OHIO—Thomas P. O’Brien Jr., 58, Law Department, The Kroger Co., 1014
Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA—Robert T. Vaughan, ’79L, Meade Tate & Daniel, P.O. Box 720,
Danville, Va. 24543

SPARTANBURG— Arthur F. Cleveland II, ’71, 241 Mills Avenue, Spartanburg, S.C. 29302
TIDEWATER—Dickinson B. Phillips, ’76, 1545 Cedar Lane, Norfolk, Va. 23508

TRI STATE—Charles F. Bagley III, °69L, Campbell Woods Bagley Emerson McNeer & Hern-
don, P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, W.Va. 25701

TUCSON—Edwin M. Gaines, ’50, 5525 N. Sundance Place, Tucson, Ariz. 85718
TULSA—William J. Flesher, ’77, Phillips Petroleum Co., 16 Phillips Bldg., Bartlesville, Okla.
74004

UPPER POTOMAC—Albert D. Darby Jr., ’43, 507 Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md.
21502

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L, 812 Vicar Lane, Alexandria, Va. 22302
WESTCHESTER/FAIRFIELD COUNT Y—Christopher B. Burnham, ’80, Old Mill Lane,
Stamford, Conn. 06902

WEST TEXAS—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abilene, Texas 79605
WINSTON-SALEM—John A. Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, Horton Hendrick & Kummer, 450
NCNB Plaza, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27101

WISCONSIN—Thomas H. Baumann, ’76, 5900 N. Shoreland Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis. 53217

 

 

29

    

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

    
   
 

 
  

 
 
  

 
 
  

 

 

 
 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

 

  

    
 

 

 

  
 
 

  

 

 

  

 

 

   

 

 

7 ee OB OO Oo . en > Be 7 ee
: . - : 7
; ; : - - a -
7 .
a i : -
ee ee OO OO /
: Ts a - a - a 7
— - oe 7 a
> : a Oo
; : :
; OO ;
- - 7 7
ee ee
; - . -
: Oe
OO :
fe
- . 7
|
oe - - _ a - ee ona i : . -
7) i ae - k ahayet-. a
Oo ea ee ©
7 7 a : - 7 - - OC
/ : - BS oe i 8 ;
- | oe - a
-
~
7
, :
t
ae
- . ek Jott |
- . - -
sy * 7 7
Bc Say
SS 7 mark 7
: - Poa. ee 4
_ 6 Sh -
a re ee -
: - ee _ - a a
rer — OS
BS
-
-
- -
‘
7 :
. ¢
OS ~ /
oc oe
/ : - rn oe es
+ - OS zo ; _. :
: Poo - and - - we ee tos
re 7 ee : Fes
a OO se - - - >
: ~  e a
NRE i
SS. Oo tH. -
seh ge, ath
- — - * , . 44s -
“ 7 - . Sf ae. a -
3 : ;
ee to 21"
. a “: Se . a - a “ oe - a
_ oe - Oo
‘ ea 4 we
- . - ee a ce
- i So
- Soe ee
; t. dae AER
ate . i
; : - aOR “>. :'4-4 on
Piphsyer, 3 _ ion ty |
: : : _ _ a 5s a dit ee es
; - 7 - :
- - - : /
- - - - - -
: - ; 7 : :
- - -
- 7 :
7 ; : : -
- - - - - - - -
- - a : - - : - 1 a : -
> _ 7 i Oo 7 i - , Oo a | a 7 7

  

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

7 7 a
OS
OO

oe
:
-

; a

-

. 7 7
Oo

Oo a

  

  
   
  

a?

     
     

 
 

:
a

 

   

 

   
 

   
 
      

 
 
  

 

ee

SS

   
   
    
    
    
  

  
 
 
   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

"

 

 

Railroads in 1981 and subsequently established
Breithaupt Cattle Co. before embarking on his
latest venture.

1937

Louis P. CASHMAN Jr. retired on Jan. 1, 1985, as
editor and publisher of the Vicksburg (Miss.) Even-
ing Post. He worked 48 years on the newspaper,
including 24 years as editor and publisher.
Cashman’s grandfather, John G. Cashman,
founded the newspaper in 1883.

1938

PAUL M. MILLER has recently started teaching a
class of foreign students at Woodrow Wilson High
School in San Francisco.

ROBERT M. White II, editor and owner of the
Mexico (Mo.) Ledger, was featured in a story in
the March 1985 issue of St. Louis Magazine, which
described him as ‘‘first, last, and always a
newspaper man.”’ The story noted that White ‘‘has
an unshakeable faith in newspapers and their
power to persuade.’’ Both his grandfather and
father headed the Ledger, which now has a cir-
culation of more than 12,000. White is a former
member of the Washington and Lee Alumni Board
of Directors and a 1972 recipient of a honorary
doctor of laws degree from Washington and Lee.

1939

A. WARD ARCHER has been elected governor of
the Tennessee Council of the American Associa-
tion of Advertising Agencies. He lives in Memphis.

HuGu P. Avery has retired from his position as
assistant to the chancellor for human resource
development at the University of Houston at Clear
Lake after 20 years at the school. Hired in 1973,
he was among the university’s first ten employees.
He previously served as director of institutional
services and as personnel administrator and affir-
mative action officer.

JOHN H. SHERRILL JR. retired in October 1984
from the University of West Florida, where he had
been director of Cooperative Education and Place-
ment, a program he established in 1966.

1940

JEROME A. SAcKs has been awarded IPCO Cor-
poration’s Max M. Low Award for 1984. IPCO
is a provider of health care products and services.
The award is given to the employee who has shown
‘*outstanding achievements and reflects the spirit
and dedication to excellence that the company’s
founder, Max M. Low, personifies.’’ Sacks has
been optometrist manager at Sterling Optical in
Poughkeepsie, N.Y., since 1969.

LLoyD E. WorneER has been chosen by the Denver-
based Bonfils-Stanton Foundation to receive an
honor award. Worner, president emeritus of Col-
orado College, has worked over 35 years bring-

ing the college to its present high academic status.
He is widely recognized on the national level as
a spokesman for liberal arts colleges. Worner was
one of three Coloradans honored by the
Foundation.

194]

GALE C. BOXxILl retired in February 1985 from his
position as director of biological sciences for
Wyeth Laboratories in Exton, Pa.

ROBERT C. PETREY continues to serve as a vice
president of Eastman Kodak Co. He is assistant
general manager of the Eastman Chemicals Divi-
sion. He lives in Kingsport, Tenn.

BERTRAM R. SCHEWEL was presented the Pro
Opera Civica Award from the Greater Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce in February. The award
was in recognition of his contributions to the
Lynchburg community.

JAMES B. SNOBBLE retired in 1984 as vice president
and area manager for Snowmass ski area, a posi-
tion he had held since the area was built more than
18 years ago by the Aspen Skiing Co.

BENTON M. WAKEFIELD has been elected president,
chief executive officer and a director of First
Financial Bank of New Orleans. Wakefield has
been in banking 38 years. Previously, Wakefield
served as chairman and chief executive officer of
the First National Bank of Jefferson Parish and
chairman of the board of First Continental
Bankshares.

1942

HAROLD R. Levy has retired after 16 years in jour-
nalism, including seven years as chief of the
Washington bureau of Newsday. He was special
assistant to John Gardner during Gardner’s tenure
as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and
also to Adlai Stevenson throughout Stephenson’s
career in the Senate.

HARRELL F. Morris is devoting his full attention
to Hal Morris Enterprises, Inc., a recently form-
ed company for the development and construction
of single family dwellings.

SAMUEL B. READ, entered semi-retirement in 1982
from the dairy business and is currently maintain-
ing a commercial Angus beef herd. Read’s dairy
business supplied milk to the Washington, D.C..,
area for more than 30 years.

ROBERT C. WALKER was re-elected to a third term
as mayor of Williamsburg, Va.

1944

GRANT E. Mouser left Hamburg, Germany, this
spring where he had been American Consul
General and has moved near Williamsburg, Va.

   

E. O. Moore, ’°45

1945

BENJAMIN M. KAPLAN has been promoted to pro-
fessor of clinical medicine at Northwestern Univer-
sity Medical School. He is in the private practice
of cardiology in Chicago.

Etuis O. Moore, of Pelham, N.Y., has retired as
vice president of public affairs for the American
Broadcasting Companies, Inc. He plans to open
his own public affairs/public relations consulting
firm. A former newspaper reporter in Pine Bluff,
Ark., and Memphis, Tenn., Moore had been in-
strumental in developing award-winning public
relations departments at both NBC and ABC. He
had also worked in public relations with Standard
Oil Co. in New Jersey.

G. KINGSLEY NOBLE has retired from teaching an-
thropology at San Jose State University and is busy
as a docent for art and photography. He lives in
Portola Valley, Calif.

CHARLES S. RowE has been nominated to become
a director of the America Newspaper Publishers
Association. Rowe is president, editor, and co-
publisher of The Free Lance-Star Publishing Co.,
which also operates two Fredericksburg radio
stations.

1948

GRANT E. Mouser (See 1944.)

1949

EDWARD P. BERLIN JR. continues as editor of the
Waynesboro News- Virginian and a board member
of the Virginia Press Association.

JAMES L. Dow, a senior partner with the Carlsbad,
N.M., firm of Dow, Feezer and Williams, was
Washington and Lee’s representative to the
ceremonies honoring New Mexico State Univer-
sity President James E. Halligan. Governors of
two states and 202 representatives of universities
and academic institutions participated.

CHARLES R. TREADGOLD, along with his two sons,
owns and operates a multi-line insurance agency.
Charles Jr. was a member of the Class of 1981.

1950

WILLIAM L. BROowNn, who was formerly associate
director of Today on NBC-TV for many years, is
now with Customer Relation Network Services
which handles the internal telecommunications of
RCA in Princeton, N.J.

JosEPH H. REESE and his wife, Joan, were vice
chairmen of the Lung Association Benefit which
was held in Philadelphia in May. The American
Lung Association of Philadelphia and Mont-
gomery County sponsored the benefit—‘‘An Even-
ing With Dionne Warwick.’’ The event raised
funds to support the association’s anti-smoking
programs.

31

Class Notes

G. C. Castle, 53,

WILLIAM H. TOWNSEND, an attorney in Columbia,
S.C., is a member of the College of Real Estate

Lawyers.
1951

SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, a Memphis warehouseman, has
been appointed the 34th president of the National
Cotton Council. He was formerly a vice president
of the industry-wide organization. Hollis, presi-
dent of Southwide, Inc., and its subsidiary, Federal
Compress & Warehouse Company, Inc., is past
president of the Cotton Warehouse Association
of America. He was a member of the National
Cotton Marketing Study Committee and the Na-
tional Cotton Advisory Committee.

WILLIAM H. KYLE JR. was a principal speaker along
with William E. Brock III, ’53, at the 23rd An-
nual Foreign Affairs Symposium in Portland,
Ore., in February. Kyle and Brock spoke on
‘‘Japan, The Reluctant Superpower.”’

THOMAS K. WOLFE JR. was awarded the 1984 John
Dos Passos Prize for Literature by Longwood
(Va.) College. Wolfe was the fifth writer to win
the Dos Passos Prize since its founding in 1980.
The author of 10 widely-acclaimed books, in-
cluding The Right Stuff, Wolfe is a Washington
and Lee Trustee.

1952

THOMAS S. ARMISTEAD JR. has joined the Virginia
Paper Co. as a sales representative in its Miami
division.

JOSEPH J. EISLER has been named vice president
of marketing for B. Shehadi & Sons, a leading
commercial carpet company, headquartered in
Whippany, N.J. Bill Kauffman, ’57, is executive
vice president of B. Shehadi Sons. Eisler had
previously been a management consultant to the
textile industry.

LESTER E. ZITTRAIN and his wife are practicing law
together in Pittsburgh under the firm name Zit-
train and Zittrain. They are both active in the bar
association and community affairs.

1953

WILLIAM E. Brock III was nominated to the posi-
tion of secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor
by President Reagan. Brock’s confirmation hear-
ings were held in late April, and he was confirm-
ed by the U.S. Senate on April 26. He had been
serving as the U.S. Trade Ambassador.

Gray C. CASTLE has been named executive vice
president at MONY, a New York-based financial
services company. He will head the law and ex-
ternal affairs area. Castle lives in New Canaan,
Conn.

JAMES M. GABLER recently left the law firm of
Smith, Somerville & Case where he had practiced
for 27 years and has formed the firm of Sand-
bower, Gabler & O’Shaughnessy in Baltimore,
Md.

32

 

“SSL

 

J. B. Johnston Jr., ’54L

1954

NorMAN L. Dosyns, public affairs vice president
for Northern Telecom, Inc., in Washington, D.C.,
delivered a major speech in February opposing im-
port surcharges. The speech was made at the In-
ternational Business Council of the Electronics In-
dustries Association.

J. BENNETT JOHNSTON JR. was elected to a third
term in the United States Senate representing Loui-
siana. He won with 86 percent of the vote.

1955

ROBERT M. CULLERS has been appointed executive
director of The Home Furnishings Association of
Delaware Valley, Inc. Cullers is also executive
director of Allied Florists of Delaware Valley, Inc.,
and the Wissahickon Valley Chamber of Com-
merce. He is president of Writers: Free-Lance,
Inc., of Ambler, Pa., a full-service advertising
agency and writing service. Previously, Cullers was
managing editor of employee publications for
Atlantic Richfield Co. and associate editor of
General Motors World. The Home Furnishings
Association of Delaware Valley serves more than
300 independent retail stores, manufacturers’
representatives and furniture manufacturers and
distributors throughout the Delaware Valley.

LAURENCE LEVITAN continues as chairman of the
senate budget and taxation committee of Maryland
and has joined the law firm of Beckett, Cromwell
and Myers, PA, in Bethesda as a partner.

WILLIAM J. Woop has recently been elected chair-
man of the board of Westwood Enterprises, a real
estate conglomerate headquartered in Buellton,
Calif.

GRAY CASTLE (See 1953.)

1956

Oscar HAROLD L. BING is on the faculty of Tufts
University and is associated with the Boston
Veterans Administration Medical Center.

1957

Dr. CHARLES M. SWEZEY was recently honored by
the board of trustees and the faculty of Union
Theological Seminary in Virginia.

1958

WILLIAM R. DENMAN is president of Denman Com-
pany, an interior contracting company. Denman
is currently serving as chairman of Historical Trust
and president of the North Care Center, a com-
munity mental health center.

WILLIAM C. MILLER recently became vice president,
general counsel, and secretary of Boehringer
Mannheim Corp. in Indianapolis, Ind. Boehringer
is the U.S. subsidiary of a large German phar-
maceutical company. Miller had been general
counsel of Max Factor & Company.

 

 

C. E. Swope, *59L

WALLACE V. WITMER is the publisher of Southern
Motor Cargo magazine, one of the nation’s leading
regional trade publications. The magazine has a
circulation of 55,000.

1959

MARINE Corps RESERVE COL. CHARLES E. SWOPE,
president of the First National Bank of West
Chester, Pa., has been awarded the Legion of
Merit Medal, a presidential medal from President
Ronald Reagan for ‘‘exceptionally meritorious
conduct in the performace of outstanding service
as Commanding Officer of Mobilization Training
Unit, Delaware I, from January 1980 through June
1984.’ In addition, Swope is president of the
Swope Foundation and a past president of Eachus
Dairies Co.

1960

J. Howe Brown was sworn in as a judge of the
19th Judicial Circuit Court in Fairfax, Va., on
March 4, 1983. Brown lives in Fairfax with his
wife, Margaret, and their four children.

GERALD O. (TOMMY) CLEMENS, was sworn in as
a judge of the 23rd Circuit Court on March 12,
1985. The ceremony, held in the old Roanoke
County Circuit Courtroom, was conducted by
Chief Judge Jack B. Coulter, ’49L. Clemens, who
has a master’s degree in criminal law from North-
western University, was in private practice in
Roanoke from 1962 until 1979 when he became
a judge of the General District Court.

NEAL P. LAVELLE was elected to the American
Academy of Matrimaxial Lawyers in May 1984.

J. AsHBpy Morton currently teaches history at
Benedict College in Columbia, S.C.

A. PRESCOTT ROWE has been named vice president
for corporate communications of Ethyl Corp. in
Richmond. Rowe’s previous title was director of
corporate communications. He joined Ethyl in
1970 and now directs the company’s public rela-
tions, community relations, advertising, and sales
promotion. Before joining Ethyl, he had worked
for Queens College in Charlotte, N.C., Central
Virginia Educational Television Corp., Reynolds
Metals Co., and W&L.

1961

JOHN ALFRED BROADDUS JR. has been appointed
senior vice president and director of research of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. A
Fulbright Fellow following his graduation from
W&L, Broaddus studied economics at the Univer-
sity of Strasburg and later earned a Ph.D. in
economics from the University of Indiana. His en-
tire professional career has been with the Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond.

JOHN R. FARMER is now vice president and part-
ner with Goldman, Sachs & Co. He lives in Ross,
Calif.

   

A. P. Rowe, ’60

K. D. Martin, ’62

JoHN H. Karru III is now with Scott &
Stringfellows, investment bankers and brokers,
and lives in Powhatan, Va.

Epson B. O1ps IV is data processing manager for
Babson Investment Services. Olds lives in Sher-
born, Mass.

1962

BIRTH: Mr. anv Mrs. J. OLLIE EDMUNDs Jr.,
a son, Christopher Francis, on Nov. 19, 1983, in
Durham, N.C. He joins two sisters and one
brother.

PETER A. AGELAsTO III, of counsel to the law firm
of Kaufman & Canoles, P.C., and formerly a part-
ner with Jett, Agelasto, Berkley, Furr & Price,
recently formed Seaboard Investment Advisers,
Inc., in Norfolk, Va.

THORNS CRAVEN recently finished second in the
North Carolina Bicycle Racing State Champion-
ship Time Trial for racers over 35. Craven clock-
ed 40 kilometers in 1:01:27. He is an attorney for
the Forsyth County Legal Aid Society in Winston-
Salem, N.C.

JAMES A. GwWINN Jr. works in the insurance
brokerage business in Houston, where he is a
Chartered Life Underwriter and a life member of
The Million Dollar Roundtable.

K. DouGLAs MARTIN has been named president of
Tupperware U.S. three months after joining the
plastic storage container company. Martin came
to Tupperware as executive vice president for
marketing and planning. He was previously presi-
dent and chief executive officer of Scripton, Inc.,
in Atlanta.

R. KING MILLING was recently elected president of
the Whitney National Bank of New Orleans.

THEODORE (TED) L. OLDHAM started his own ar-
chitecture firm in October 1983. Employing more
than 30 people, it is one of the largest architec-
ture firms in the Washington, D.C., area. The firm
specializes in design of hotels and office buildings
and in interior design for corporate clients.

WESLEY R. OSTERGREN and his family are living
in Jackson, Miss., where he is attending Mississippi
College School of Law.

RICHARD A. RApDIS has been a member of the
board of directors of the Fort Lauderdale Semi-
Annual Billfish Tournament Committee since 1975
and is serving as president of the tournament for
1985.

WILLIAM L. RoserTs JR. has been elected a vice
president of the Colonial Williamsburg Founda-
tion and was named chief financial officer and
treasurer. He assumed his new duties in April.
Robert was vice president at Citicorp Industrial
Credit, Inc., in Harrison, N.Y. He had been with

 

   

G. M. Tilman, ’63

Citicorp since 1962 and held a variety of positions,
serving 14 of those 22 years with the bank in posts
outside the United States. He is a native of
Williamsburg. He and his wife, Gale, have four
children.

1963

NICHOLAS MONSARRAT was appointed managing
editor of the Rutland Herald in Rutland, Vt. Mon-
sarrat and his wife, Dorothy, live with their three
children in Randolph, Vt.

THE REV. MICHAEL J. SHANK was recently ap-
pointed to chair the Episcopal Church Diocese of
New Jersey’s Committee on Racism.

G. McNEIR TILMAN has been named senior vice
president and marketing director of the National
Bank and Trust Co. in Charlottesville, Va. He and
his wife, Nancy, and their two daughters live in
Charlottesville.

1964

BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. KENNETH P. LANE Jr.,
a son, Kevin Powell on December 13, 1984, in Lex-
ington, Va. Lane is coordinator of continuing care
at the Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic in
Lexington.

Dan H. FLournoy has joined Paul R. Ray & Co.,
one of the world’s ten largest executive search
firms. He is vice president in the company’s
Houston office. Flournoy was formerly president
and chief executive officer of Kastle Security
Systems, Inc., a Houston-based designer and in-
staller of electronic security systems for high-rise
office buildings.

WILLIAM M. SCHILDT recently announced the for-
mation of the law firm of Strite, Schildt & Varner
in Hagerstown, Md.

1965

CALVIN TRACY HARRINGTON is director of faculty
and instructional development at Murray State
University in Murray, Ky. Harrington, who has
spent the last 15 years in educational program
development in Africa and Florida, remains deeply
involved in international education.

JOHN W. Hunt became president of Pip Minerals
Co. in Houston, a drilling fluids wholesaler, in
February 1984. For the past five years RICHARD
R. KREITLER Of Ketchum, Idaho, has managed
Dakota Partners, an investment and consulting
firm concentrating in financial instruments. In
January 1985, Kreitler began managing Dakota
Asset Management Corp. which handles pension
funds and profit-sharing plans of large
corporations.

1966

JOHN D. ANDERSON has been appointed guidance
counselor and college advisor at Morris High

D. H. Flournoy, ’64

   

School in Bronx, N.Y., where he has been teaching
for more than 15 years.

KENNETH L. BERNHARDT has resumed teaching at
Georgia State University’s College of Business Ad-
ministration in Atlanta after spending a year as
a visiting professor at the Harvard Business
School.

1967

ALAN T. RAINS JR. was appointed president of the
National Association of OTC Companies. Rains
brings to the NAOTC extensive experience as a
professional association executive, having served
as the director of finance of the American Socie-
ty of Associate Executives from 1973 to 1981.

BRAD A. ROCHESTER was busy last spring with the
preparation of a 90,000-piece series of recruitment
brochures and booklets for Rockingham Com-
munity College of Wentworth, N.C. Rochester was
also successful with a $4-million bond issue cam-
paign for a new campus tech/lab building. He lives
in Eden, N.C.

1968

H. WILLIAM WALKER Jr. has recently formed a
new law firm in Miami, Fla. Walker, Ellis, Gragg
& Deaker specializes in property finance and
development, taxation, corporate and securities
law.

1969

MARRIAGE: Joun T. WHETSTONE III and Nan-
cy Van Zant on Sept. 1, 1984. The couple lives in
Jackson, Miss.

BIRTH: Henry L. RoepDIGER III and Mary
Catherine Schiller, a son, Kurt Shiller Roediger,
on March 22, 1985, in Lafayette, Ind.

RICHARD E. KRAMER has been teaching in the ex-
pository writing program of New York Universi-
ty and will have a paper, entitled ‘‘The Group
Theatre’s Johnny Johnson’’ published in the
January issue of The Drama Review.

Dr. BRITTAIN MCJUNKIN recently received the
honorary appointment of Fellow in the American
College of Physicians. McJunkin practices
gastroenterology and is a clinical associate pro-
fessor of medicine at the Charleston division of
the West Virginia University School of Medicine.

JOHN A. WOLF is a trustee of The Bryn Mawr
School in Baltimore. He practices civil litigation
as a partner in the Baltimore law firm of Ober,
Kaler, Grimes and Shriver, which also maintains
offices in Washington, New York and Orlando.

a

 

SS
- os a 7
7

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_---

 

 

   

oe - 7 7
7 7
- :
- :
7 - - -
: i - oe 7 oe - - oe -

   

=

—_—----
meen me

 

 

ae
7

a
So

; ee

a a

7

 

 

Oo saps |

 

      

    

 

 

 

 

 

rs

 

 

re

Bn

/

 

 

1975

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM C. DatTz, a
daughter, Katherine Anne, on Sept. 22, 1983, in
Lexington. Datz is assistant proctor for
Washington and Lee and volunteers as chapter ad-
visor for the Delta Tau Delta fraternity.

BIRTH: ANGELICA DIDIER LLOYD and Thomas P.
Lloyd, a daughter, Catherine Desha, on Feb. 9,
1985, in Roanoke. She joins a brother, Preston,
3. Mrs. Lloyd is a lawyer with Norfolk Southern.

BIRTH: MR. AND MRs. C. BERKELEY WILSON II,
a son, John Cowles II, on Feb. 20, 1985, in
Atlanta.

RANDY L. FLINK is now affiliated with Fritts Sesler
Investments, a Dallas-based real estate investment
banking firm. Flink is also a managing partner of
Old Style Investments, which soon plans to open
a restaurant and tavern in the Dallas area.

THomaAS D. LANCASTER is co-editor of a book en-
titled Politics and Change in Spain published by
Praeger Publishers. Lancaster wrote the introduc-
tory essay and a chapter on ‘‘Spanish Public Policy
and Financial Power.’’ This book includes a
chapter by W&L professor H. Laurent Boetsch Jr.,
°69. Lancaster teaches comparative politics at
Emory University.

THOMAS B. RAMEY III has been general manager
of KTRE-TV in Lufkin-Nacagdoches, Texas, since
June 1983.

MITCHEL J. SELEZNICK is director of the residen-
cy training program in internal medicine at Long
Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, N.Y. Selez-
nick also has a consulting practice in rheumatology
and allergies.

JAMES WILSON was named retail advertising
manager of the Greensboro (N.C.) News and
Record in January 1985.

1976

MARRIAGE: Wi11AM H. Moomaw Jr. and Teri
Penrod on May 12, 1984, in Dallas, Texas.
Groomsmen included Thomas Faulkner Jr., ’74;
Douglas Hunt, ’75; William Biesel, ’75; Murry
Holland, ’75; Chip Flanagan, ’75; and William
Flesher, ’76. The couple lives in Dallas, Texas.
Moomaw is an associate vice president with
Prudential-Bache Securities in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. SAMUEL R. BROWN II, a
daughter, Catherine Coleman, on November 27,
1984, in Virginia Beach, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. HAROLD R. Howe Jr.,
a daughter, Katherine Holton, on Jan. 31, 1985.
She joins an older brother. The family lives in
Winston-Salem, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DONALD C. OVERDORFF,

twins, a son, Christopher James, and a daughter,
Sarah Ann, born on March 11, 1985. They join
an older brother, Justin Michael. The family lives
in Johnstown, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. R. JOHN TAYLOR, a Son,
Clayton Jackson, on Oct. 31, 1984. The family
lives in Lewiston, Ind.

BIRTH: Mark E. SHARP AND PatTrRIcIA A. Woop-
WARD, ason, Matthew Freeman, on Dec. 4, 1984,
in Warrenton, Va.

JEFFREY A. BAUM is currently in residency in or-
thopedic surgery in Pittsburgh. He plans to com-
plete the residency in June 1986 and then pursue
a spinal surgery fellowship.

ALAN CHIPPERFIELD continues to work as an assis-
tant public defender in the Duval County Court-
house in Jacksonville, Fla. In May 1979, Chipper-
field left Mahoney, Hadlow & Adams, one of the
oldest and largest law firms in north Florida.

THE REv. J. GLENN DULKEN, an Anglican Catholic
Priest and rector of a parish in Charlotte, N.C.,
has enlarged the parish from eight parishoners to
more than 135 in three years. Dulken is now
building a church in the American Gothic Revival
style with his own hands.

JAMES C. GOULD is tax counsel to Senator Lloyd
Bentsen of Texas, who is a member of the Senate
Finance Committee.

JOHN L. Gray JR. has been named vice president
of accounting services of Umphenour & Martin,
an Atlanta-based advertising agency. Gray is
responsible for a 143-unit Arby’s franchise.

JOHN S. Norris was recently elected as president
of the Tidewater Chapter of the Federal Bar
Association. He lives in Virginia Beach.

Dr. MICHAEL A. OKIN became a Fellow of the
American Academy of Family Practice in October
1984 at the AAFP Convention in Kansas City. He
practices family medicine in Fayetteville, N.C.

FREDERICK L. SILBERNAGEL III has been named a
partner in the CPA firm of Stoy, Malone and Co.
in Bethesda, Md.

WALTER E. VEGHTE III is an assistant vice presi-
dent with Merrill Lynch in New York.

1977

MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL J. Burns and Ellen
Sussman on Jan. 12, 1985, in Los Angeles. David
Davis, ’77, was in the wedding party. Chuck Stein,
°75, and Chip Hoke, ’79, also attended. Burns left
Bell Communications Research in New Jersey and
moved to Houston to accept a position with
Lockheed as senior engineer. He is directing
Lockheed’s Human Factors Engineering Research
Laboratory at NASA’s Johnson Space Center.

MARRIAGE: STEPHEN Q. GIBLIN and Debra Mar-
tin on Sept. 8, 1984, in Cleveland, Ohio. Giblin
is an associate with the law firm of Jones, Day,
Reavis and Pogue. The couple lives in Lakewood,
Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM R. BALDWIN III,
ason, Douglas Frazer, on March 11, 1985, in Rich-
mond. He joins a brother, Andrew, 7, and a sister,
Heather, 3. Baldwin is an associate with the Rich-
mond firm of Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg, Cox
and Allen.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. EpwarpD M. DUVALL, a
daughter, Nicolette Mareen, on Sept. 24, 1984, in
Houston, Texas.

Capt. WILLIAM J. CopLe III has completed four
years of active military duty with the U.S. Army.
He has joined the Atlanta law firm of King &
Spalding as an associate for corporate litigation
in the firms’s Washington, D.C., office. While on
active duty he was a staff attorney for the General
Counsel in the office of the Secretary of Defense.
Most recently, he completed his tour of duty as
chief prosecutor and director of the Trials Branch
for the Staff Judge Advocate of the Headquarters,
U.S. Army Engineer Center in Fort Belvoir, Va.
He also served as a special federal prosecutor in
the Eastern District of Virginia. He and his wife,
Bethanne, live in Alexandria, Va.

DEBORAH A. JOHNSON has been selected for inclu-
sion in the 1985-86 edition of Who’s Who of
American Women. Also, she was recently chosen
as a participant in the 1985 class of ‘‘Leadership
Louisville,’’ an intensive leadership training pro-
gram for selected young community leaders.

JOSEPH E. KANE has recently taken on a new part-
time job in addition to his legal profession. He is
the drummer for a four-member rock ’n’ roll band
which plays music from the ’60s and ’70s. He and
his wife, Maryanne, live in Mays Landing, N.J.

EARL W. STRADTMAN will spend a year conduc-
ting research on ovarian cancer at the Brigham-
Women’s Hospital in Boston, Mass.

SAMUEL E. THOMPSON is a residential mortgage
loan officer with Pine State Securities in Atlanta.

PAMELA J. WHITE recently became a partner in the
Baltimore firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes & Shriver.

1978

MARRIAGE: SHELBY K. BAILEY and Margo Fan-
cher on Jan. 12, 1985, in Birmingham, Ala. Bailey
graduated in 1983 with a degree in medicine from
the University of Alabama.

MARRIAGE: Curis N. Hoover and Stewart Lee
on Dec. 29, 1984, in Dallas. Hoover returned to
law school at the University of Mississippi and will
graduate in the fall of 1985.

35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

ment for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Cor-
poration in Washington, D.C.

PATRICIA A. WOODWARD (See Sharp 1976.)

1981

MARRIAGE: RoBErRT B. NEELY and Laura A.
Randall on June 2, 1984. Robert B. Witherington,
°82, was a groomsman. Neely is vice president and
chief financial officer of Transland Management
Corp., a Dallas real estate company. He is on the
board of trustees of Callier Center for Com-
municative Disorders.

MARRIAGE; RUSSELL Z. PLOWDEN and Sally
Harman in December 1983. Plowden graduated
from the University of South Carolina law school
in May 1984. He is currently working on his LL.M.
in taxation at the University of Miami School of
Law.

MARRIAGE: SAMUEL P. PRICE JR. and Anita
Swallen, on June 2, 1984. Price is a partner in
Price, Miller, Evans and Flowers in Jamestown,
N.Y.

MARRIAGE: EDwarpD J. VORWERK and Iris Mar-
tusciello on Jan. 13, 1985. In attendance were
classmates Harold Robertson; Jon Hendler; Chip
Nunley; Craig Burns; Rick Baxter; Doug Hass-
inger; and Brad Scholtz. Vorwerk is the eastern
region data systems staff manager for AT&T Data
Systems in Rye, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRS. CHRISTOPHER J. FAY, a
son, Joseph, on Sept. 17, 1984, in Taipei, Taiwan.

BIRTH: MR. AND Mrs. JOHN B. STREET, a son,
John Kenneth, on Feb. 28, 1985. He joins an older
brother, Scott. The Streets live in Chillicothe,
Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. DouGLas W. WERTH, a
daughter, Katherine Cline, on July 31, 1984. She
joins an older sister, Katie. The family lives in Ab-
ingdon, Va., where Werth is now a general pro-
jects accountant for the Pittston Company-Coal
Group.

GERALD L. BROCCOLI is the general manager of
O’Donnell’s Restaurant, Inc., in Bethesda, Md.

RICHARD HAGOOD DRENNEN is selling industrial
and commercial land and leasing office and
warehousing space for Southwest Venture Com-
panies in Nashville, Tenn.

R. CHRISTOPHER GAMMON has been elected assis-
tant vice president at Wachovia Bank and Trust
in Charlotte, N.C. Gammon joined Wachovia’s
International Group in 1981.

CHRISTOPHER H. GREATWOOD is presently serving
aboard the USS Billfish, a fast attack submarine,
as main propulsion assistant and has been selected
as the prospective weapons officer.

STEPHEN M. PIPER has recently resigned from the
firm of Wetherington and Melchionna and is a
staff attorney at the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

JOSEPH C. SAVAGE is working on his Ph.D. in
physical organic chemistry at Indiana University.

RICHARD B. SILBERSTEIN lives in Baltimore and is
associated with the insurance and employee benefit
planning firm, Franklin/Morris Associates.
Silberstein is continuing his courses toward the
CLU designation through the American College.

DAWN ELLEN WARFIELD joined the legal division
of the West Virginia Worker’s Compensation
Fund in Charleston, W.Va., in June 1984. In her
spare time, she does costumes and volunteer work
for the Kanawha Players, a community theater
group.

1982

MARRIAGE: Wi.LiAM W. Bourne and Dawn E.
Sullivan in August 1984. Bourne teaches physics
at The Pingry School in Martinsville, N.J., and
also acts as a real estate consultant. The couple
lives in Essex County, N.J.

MARRIAGE: EArtE W. Davi and Lisa Childers
on June 9, 1984, in Houston. Hal Bohlman, ’82,
and Kevin Honey, ’82, were groomsmen. Chris
Quirk, ’82, also attended.

MARRIAGE: Scott B. PURYEAR and Katie
Trabue on June 9, 1984, in Kingsport, Tenn. They
live in Savannah, Ga., where Puryear is a rifle pla-
toon leader in the U.S. Army, assigned to Hunter
Army Airfield.

BIRTH: Mr. AND MRs. RICHARD P. ECKMAN, a
daughter, Elizabeth Anna, on Feb. 24, 1985, in
Wilmington, Del.

JAMES S. KAPLAN is employed by First Union Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte, N.C., and serves as the
bank’s assistant investment portfolio manager,
specializing in mortgage-backed securities.

HENRY F. SATTLETHIGHT graduated from the U.S.
Air Force communications operations specialist
course at Goodfellow Air Force Base in Texas. Sat-
tlethight will now serve at Iraklion Air Base in
Greece.

CuRIs L. SIsTo is teaching Spanish at the Watkin-
son School in Hartford, Conn. He also coaches
junior varsity girls basketball.

ROBERT M. STAUGAITIS is an administrative assis-
tant, history teacher, and soccer and lacrosse coach
at McDonogh School in Baltimore, where he is
chairman of Baltimore’s W&L Alumni Admissions
Program.

R. BLAKE WITHERINGTON was recently appointed
an assistant treasurer of Morgan Guaranty Trust

Co. He lives in New York and works in Morgan
Guaranty’s southern department, which has
responsibility for the bank’s corporate business in
Georgia and Florida.

1983

MARRIAGE: JOHN W. PERKINSON JR. and Cyn-
thia Lawther Rich on June 23, 1984, in Pittsburgh.
Groomsmen included classmates Richard Owen;
Scott Stanton; and Chris Cavalline. Perkinson is
employed by Macro Systems, Inc., Management
Consultants in Silver Springs, Md.

JOHN H. DEGNAN III has recently accepted a posi-
tion within the real estate division of the Dallas-
based Electronic Data Systems Corp. He holds the
title of property specialist and is negotiating leases
and acquisitions, nationally and internationally.

DEANE A. HENNETT is part of the management
trainee team with Heilig-Meyers Co. of Richmond.
As such, Hennett is an assistant manager of the
company’s Henderson, N.C., retail operation.

Ist. Lt. NEWTON P. KENDRICK graduated from
the U.S. Army’s Ranger School and Flight School.
Kendrick serves as a scout pilot and scout platoon
leader in Nurnberg, Germany.

GERALD IRVING MOYER JR. has been working for
Chicago-based VMS Realty since 1983. He is con-
centrating in commercial real estate development.

2ND LT. ROBERT G. OrTIz has completed the
military intelligence officer basic course at the Ar-
my Intelligence School in Fort Hyachuca, Ariz.

1984

JAMES C. CLARK is an account representative for
Weider Health and Fitness in Edison, N.J.

JOHN P. DoMEIKA is attending T. C. Williams
School of Law at the University of Richmond.

JAY M. FAULKNER III is an associate with Stone
Commercial Properties, a commercial real estate
firm in Dallas.

E. Topp Forp is a charter pilot and flight instruc-
tor with Causey Aviation in Greensboro, N.C.

Davip R. Harcus is a graduate student in
biological studies at Michigan State University.

THOMAS F. HURDMAN works as a commercial ac-
counts manager for MCI Telecommunications in
Hunt Valley, Md.

LAURENCE D. KEELEY has completed an armor of-
ficer basic course at the U.S. Army Armor School,
Fort Knox, Ky.

STEPHEN W. LEMON is a first-year law student at
Vanderbilt University.

37

 

 

 

Silver Beaver, the highest award presented to adult
scouts. He was also a vigil member of the Order
of the Arrow.

1933

WALTER EMERSON VERMILYA, a retired physician
in Clifton Forge, Va., died on Nov. 7, 1984. Ver-
milya was director of the First National Bank of
Clifton Forge, director of the Virginia Academy
of Family Practice, president of the Blue Ridge
Chapter of Family Practice, and director of the
C.F. Huntington Hospital Association. He was
chairman of the local chapter of the American Red
Cross, director of the Lions Club and the Shrine
Club, and an elder of the Presbyterian Church.

1935

RICHARD TOWNES KELLEY, engineer and ad-
ministrator for Emerson Electric Manufacturing
Co., died Feb. 7, 1985, in Clayton, Mo. He held
several positions with Emerson, ranging from copy
writing for advertisements to design engineering
and from sales work to property management. He
was with Emerson for 30 years, managing property
of government-owned equipment and facilities.
Kelley’s division was involved with electronics and
space, designs and producers of radar equipment
for aircraft and also missile launchers for army
field units.

1938

JAMES HIRAM SMITH, a retired geologist, died April
1, 1985, in Somerset, Ky. He pursued graduate
work at the University of North Carolina and at
Brown University. He was a member of the U.S.
Geological Survey from 1946 to 1977 and the Ken-
tucky Geological Survey from 1977 to 1981. He was
active in the First United Methodist Church of
Somerset and was a scoutmaster. He had served
as president of the Somerset Rotary Club and was
a Mason.

1939

Puitip KEYES YONGE, a professor at Brooklyn Law
School in New York, died Oct. 26, 1984. Yonge
received his law degree from the University of
Florida in 1942. He was a member of the Brooklyn
Law School faculty for 20 years and earned the
reputation of a brilliant scholar and an inspiring
teacher. Yonge served in the Army Air Force dur-
ing World War II and saw two years of duty in
the Pacific Theatre.

1940

LAWRENCE HERDON BURNETT, president and
owner of Bryant-Burnett Co., Inc., died on Nov.
23, 1984, in Louisville, Ky.

JACK CLEEK JR., died on May 28, 1984, in Bolar,
Va.

Dr. MELvIN Ross MCCASKILL, a_ physician
specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, died

April 2, 1985, in Little Rock. He was president
of the Woman’s Clinic of Little Rock from 1962
to 1984. He received his medical degree from
Tulane University in 1944. He was an intern at St.
Louis City Hospital and completed his residency
at the University of Arkansas in 1949, later prac-
ticing with his father and other physicians in Lit-
tle Rock. He was certified by the Board of the
American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology
in 1953 and served as clinical assistant, staff physi-
cian, and professor of obstetrics and gynecology
at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences.
He was staff physician at St. Vincent Infirmary,
Baptist Medical Center, Arkansas Children’s
Hospital and Doctors Hospital. Dr. McCaskill was
a member of the original planning committee of
the Little Rock Land Co., which built Doctors
Hospital and subsequently served on the hospital
board of directors. He was a member of the
Southeastern Obstetrics and Gynecology Society,
the Southern Medical Society, the American
Medical Association and the American Board of
Obstetrics and Gynecology. McCaskill was a Navy
veteran of the Korean war.

1948

GEORGE LLOYD CowAN III, owner of ENVIRONS,
a Birmingham, Ala., retail store, died on Feb. 27,
1985, in Birmingham. He received his bachelor’s
degree from Amherst College in 1942. He served
with American Field Service attached to British 8th
Army in North Africa and later with U.S. Army
in the Pacific.

1950

THE REV. SAMUEL SHAFER Opom died in December
1984 in Sewickley, Pa. He earned a master’s of
divinity degree from the Episcopal Theological
Seminary in Alexandria, Va., in 1953. He was or-
dained and served parishes in Giles and Northamp-
ton Counties, Va., before moving to Pittsburgh
in 1959. He served for 13 years at St. Stephen’s
Church and later was rector of Grace Church in
the Pittsburgh suburb of Mt. Washington. He was
also a full-time psychotherapist for the Southwest
Pittsburgh Community Mental Health and Men-
tal Retardation Program. In 1966-67, Odom par-
ticipated in an exchange ministry with a Church
of England priest in Worcestershire, England.

1955

RAY BRowN DINKEL, a regional manager in the
northeastern states for Ethan Allen, Inc., died Feb.
5, 1985, in Amherst, N.H. Dinkel was a member
of the Church of Our Saviour in Milford, N.H.

1959

HENRY HARTMAN HECHT, an art collector and
museum director, died July 28, 1984, in New York.

1966

Barry LYNN HoLcoms, placement liaison and per-
sonnel coordinator for the Art Institute of Fort

Lauderdale, died Feb. 19, 1985. Holcomb’s duties
with the Art Institute included part-time student
employment, prospective employer contact and
staff personnel functions. He received his
bachelor’s degree from Ohio Wesleyan Universi-
ty. He was the former director of personnel for
the cities of Riviera Beach and Oakland Park, Fla.;
assistant to the mayor of Akron, Ohio; and ex-
ecutive training administrator, executive develop-
ment administrator, and personnel manager for
Jordan Marsh in Miami. He had also been an in-
structor in marketing, business and personnel at
Barry College and was a member of the Advertis-
ing Federation of Greater Fort Lauderdale.

197]

JOHN BIRRELL KING JR., a partner in a Norfolk,
Va., law firm, died Feb. 7, 1984, in Norfolk. King,
who received his bachelor’s degree from
Georgetown University, was a member of the
editorial board of the Washington and Lee Law
Review and was a member of the Order of the Coif
and Delta Theta Phi legal fraternity. From 1971
to 1973, he served as a law clerk for the U.S. Court
of Appeals, Fourth Circuit. He became a partner
in the law firm of Vandeventer, Black, Meredith
& Martin in 1973. He was a lecturer of law on the
faculty of Marshall Wythe School of Law at the
College of William and Mary. He was a member
of the American Bar Association, the Maritime
Law Association of the U.S., the Virginia Bar
Association, and the Norfolk-Portsmouth Bar
Association. He also served on the board of the
Virginia Beach YMCA and was a member of the
Virginia Masters Swim Team.

1977

JOHN SACHA PALDA died Jan. 9, 1985, in St.
Petersburg, Fla., where he was the owner of a ven-
ding company. He was a member of the Church
of the Ascension in Clearwater, Fla. He had been
a co-founder of Washington and’ Lee’s chapter of
Chi Psi fraternity.

1978

DARNALL WHITMELL BoyD Jr. died on March 15,
1985, in a hotel explosion at a ski resort in Alta,
Utah. Boyd was vice president of Boyd and Co.,
in Columbia, S.C. A member of Trinity Episcopal
Cathedral, he was a polo player and a tennis and
ski enthusiast. He was a member of Forest Lake
Club, Wildewood Club, Caroliniana Club, and the
Palmetto Club.

1985

JOHN CHRISTOPHER HUNTER died on Feb. 17, 1985,
in an automobile accident near Lexington. He was
planning to major in politics at W&L and was a
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and the
Rugby Club. He was a native of Cave Spring, Ga.,
and a graduate of the Darlington School.

39

And furthermore. . .

Letters to the Editor

EDITOR:

I wish to express my enjoyment and ap-
preciation of the Steve Hagey article appear-
ing in the March/April 1985 Alumni
Magazine. His personal insights about the
Lebanon situation are of historic value, par-
ticularly the parable about the frog and the
scorpion.

Politics and religion have historically
comprised a synergistic brew of intense
strength. The number and variety of players
in this particular sphere of the world are con-
fusing at best. Mr. Hagey’s article is an ex-
cellent overview and reflection of a volatile
and far-reaching situation. One should think
his flair for writing and observation should
be extended to book form. I’ll take the first
copy.

JOHN EDWARD LANE III, ’74
Altavista, Va.

EDITOR:

Glad as I am to see the coeducation deci-
sion vindicate itself with an upswing of
superior applicants, I am curious to know
why so many alumni are so upset with the
change.

After all, no tradition is being broken.
Only a strategy is being changed. W&L re-
mained all-male for so long because the
school had to have thought that it could not
keep its doors open had it been coed. But the
all-male strategy persisted long enough to
give it the likeness of a tradition. Well, it
never was a tradition but one strategy as
malleable as any other. Yet many people still
insist that the all-male student body was, and
is, a tradition. From this point of view, too,
the coed initiative makes sense.

As times change, traditions once in har-
mony can collide. W&L faced this problem
last year. The most important, or core, tradi-
tions must be preserved at the expense of the
less important, or peripheral, traditions.
Sometimes the peripheral traditions to be
changed are sentimental favorites of the
alumni. Since many traditions are little more
than excuses for not redressing the inequities
of established orders, W&L has had to be
careful in determining which traditions it
should dispense with and which it should
keep over time.

The three traditions discussed during the
coed debate were the all-male student body,
honor (reflected in the gentleman’s school),

40

 

and academic excellence. Honor certainly
seems to be a core tradition (without which
the school would lose its ‘W&L-ness’).
Honor, in itself, was irrelevant to the coed
question so one need not consider that ques-
tion further. Academic excellence and all-
male minkdom collided. Which one of the
two, if any, was (and is) the core tradition?
This was the painful choice the school had
to make, given the downward trend of
average freshmen SAT scores, etc., over the
last 10 years. It seems to me that any private
college that does not consciously strive for
academic excellence ought to get out of the
higher education business.

Viewed from this perspective, then, the
University saw the coed question for what

 

 

L.A 2 @2 22 42 @4 42 @2 2.84 8 @ 4 24 02.4 B.44

it really was: a choice of strategy (or a ques-
tion of a peripheral tradition). And the
school changed its tune . . . with 2,600 ap-
plications from the best group of kids yet to
show for its courage!

An old French saying states, ‘‘the more
things change, the more they stay the same.’’
I suspect that when the gnashing of teeth has
spent itself and letters like this have long been
forgotten (next year), alumni will come back
to Lexington to an alma mater with an ad-
mittedly different student body but whose
‘W&L-ness’ is as much intact as ever.

EDWARD J. MCDONNELL III, ’80
Pittsburgh, Pa.

EDITOR:

Hey fellas, what’s the fuss? Like it or not,
coeducation at W&L is a fait accompli. So
why keep the pot boiling?

Richard Kramer of New York City at-
tacks my letter opposing coeducation by
labeling my remarks as ‘‘sexist.’’ He then
jumps to the curious conclusion that I view
women as less serious scholars than men.
Nothing could be farther from the truth. In
fact, if I have a bias, it’s that women are
more conscientious students than men.

Last summer the question, ‘‘Will
coeducation make W&L a better institu-
tion?’’ was asked and answered. Yet, I
believe there is a place for dissenting opinion,
namely, that in certain academic climes the
combination of women and men on the same
campus does not always make for ideal
results. In my letter I sounded the alarm that
this momentous decision could have long-
term effects that may not have been con-
sidered by the Trustees. It’s quite possible
that the ethos of W&L—that ineffable quali-
ty that makes our alma mater a special
place—could be irreparably damaged.

How? Well, the University is certain to
grow, as will the appetite for building funds.
The school as we know it will change, not
necessarily for the better. Bigness does not
always go hand in hand with quality
education.

But to interpret this concern as a personal
attack on women is sloppy thinking on Mr.
Kramer’s part, which should be an embar-
rassment to anyone with a W&L education.

S. Scott WHIPPLE, 58
Stamford, Conn.

 

 

In Memoriam
Rom Weatherman

Romulus Turner Weatherman died May 2 at the age of 60.

For the past 18 years, Rom Weatherman put this magazine
together.

Rom began his professional career as a newspaperman. He
came to Washington and Lee in 1967 after 27 years in the
newspaper business in his native North Carolina. His tenure
on newspapers was interrupted twice by brief stints in the in-
formation and alumni offices at his alma mater, Wake Forest.

His title at Washington and Lee was director of publica-
tions. And though readers of this magazine knew him as its
managing editor, that was but one part of his work at W&L.
Virtually every publication that the University has put out over
these past 18 years was Rom’s work. He designed, edited, and
produced them all—from catalogues to the freshman face
books, from literally dozens upon dozens of sundry brochures
to Christmas cards. The range, variety, and consistent quality
of the publications Rom produced was remarkable.

Slightly more than a half dozen years ago Rom picked up
a tennis racquet again for the first time since his childhood. He
took some lessons in a summer clinic and was hooked. He lov-
ed to play the game, and he loved to watch others play it.

Within his circle of tennis-playing friends, Rom was the only
one who cheered for John McEnroe. He enjoyed engaging in
great debates with those detractors who argued that McEnroe’s
boorish behavior was bad for the game. Rom always defended
John McEnroe—not for his antics, but for the masterful game
of tennis he played.

That made perfect sense. Rom saw quite clearly that John
McEnroe was a perfectionist on the tennis court, saw that
McEnroe often raised the game to new heights, and sensed that
the outbursts that so angered others were often a matter of
McEnroe’s inability to accept anything less than perfection.

Rom was that way, too. He steadfastly refused to accept
anything less than perfection when it came to the publications
he produced. He spent hours on the endless details. He agoniz-
ed over every photograph he cropped, concerned that he not
“*do violence’’ (his words) to the photographer’s composition.

Every year around February it would be time to choose a
cover for the catalogue from a file drawer full of color slides.
Rom would go through those slides with great care and would
finally narrow the field to a half-dozen or so candidates. Even-
tually he would summon others to help make the final choice.
We would troop into his office and watch as he projected the
slides up on the wall, describing the merits and demerits of each
potential cover.

After a morning of this, we would finally reach a consen-
sus. Rom probably knew before he ever started the exercise what
would work best, of course. But he wanted to be absolutely cer-
tain, beyond any doubt, that we had just the right photo.

So the selection would be made. Everyone would agree. The
slide projector would be put back into its case. We would all
disperse to our offices.

 

 

No more than 20 minutes later, Rom would appear in the
doorway, another slide in his hand.

‘‘How about this one?’’ he’d ask, holding it up to the light.
““You sure it wouldn’t do better than the one we chose?’’

Rom set the highest possible standards for himself and his
work. Every so often his frustrations on a particular project
would boil over, and he’d vow ‘‘I’m just going to throw it
together and not worry how it looks.’’ But he never really threw
it together; he never could stop worrying how it looked; and,
as a result, it always looked superb.

It was not until late in Rom’s tenure as managing editor that
computers began to appear in offices. Rom used to.shake his
head about computers and grouse about how they were taking
over the world. He edited copy with a pencil, not with buttons
that promised to ‘‘delete line.’’

Early on he took obvious delight in the glitches that the com-
puters invariably caused. But little by little he softened on the
subject. He had a computer terminal in his office and would
peck away at it, citing its deficiencies when the button he push-
ed failed to keep its promise. He probably never liked the com-
puter, but he did manage to accept what he called ‘‘the high-
tech’? world. One of his proudest moments came back in
January when, suffering through the effects of chemotherapy,
he sat at that terminal and edited all the class notes for an issue
of the alumni magazine. He had conquered high-tech.

Rom was born in Statesville, N.C. He served as an aircraft
armorer for the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II
and was wounded in action while on duty in the Philippines.
He entered Wake Forest after the war and finished in 1950,
graduating first in his class and reaping numerous honors—
summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

He began newspapering in his home town as circulation
manager, reporter, and editorial writer with the Statesville Daily
and The Landmark. In 1951, he went to the Winston-Salem
Journal for seven years before spending one year organizing
and directing the office of information at Wake Forest’s
Bowman Gray School of Medicine.

He spent three years as an editorial writer with the Winston-
Salem Journal and Twin City Sentinel before going to Wake
Forest as director of alumni activities and editor of the Wake
Forest Magazine.

In 1964 he went back to the Twin City Sentinel and was there
for three years before coming to Washington and Lee.

Rom was particularly active in the R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church where he was on the vestry and taught church
school. He is survived by his wife, Clara Belle; a son, John,
an accountant in Gastonia, N.C.; two daughters, Bess, who is
with a New York City investment bank, and Kate, a senior at
Salem College; a sister; and two brothers.

Those of us who worked with Rom will miss him. So will
this magazine.

J.G.H.

 

Hinely Photo

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

Ce

 

     
  
  
 
 

iy
oO
-
|
~t
Oo
Ot
3
O
+ OA
‘ rt ™
Join an SC
Exclusive INTRAV Adventure ” ae
On a Cruise * ox
Down the Beautiful Blue ~ as
+o
ows
ANT
Cec
G GO
On &
c
sor y)
f. om -of
Eve

 
 
   
   
  

Dit,

i ea ly a

 

  
 
 
 

ee

eM rm,

     

ey Only Through the
Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc.

Departing October 12, 1985
From $2599, Per Person,
Round-trip from New York

DANUBE RIVER ADVENTURE
Sold Out in 1982, ’83 and ’84

Visit seven countries. Board the Danube River cruise ship
in Vienna, Austria, for your Danube River cruise to
Bratislava, Czechoslovakia; Budapest, Hungary; Bel-
grade, Yugoslavia; Nikopol/Pleven, Bulgaria, and
Giurgiu/Bucharest, Romania. Transfer to the Ayvazov-
skiy for a Black Sea cruise. Then, two nights amidst
mosques and minarets in Istanbul, Turkey.

Both ships are exclusively chartered by INTRAV for this
popular cruise. All meals are included. ..and served at one
leisurely seating.

Note: Some itineraries operate in reverse order.
- — — Send for Reservations or More Information Now - - -.

 

Ms. Robin Heizer-Farris

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703) 463-8400

Yes, | want to join the cruise down the Beautiful Blue Danube.

1 Enclosed is my check for $ ($300 per person) for
deposit on the DANUBE RIVER ADVENTURE.
C1 Please send me more information right away.

Name
Address
City
State Zip

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

