 
  
  

‘ceweron,va2anso-- The Alumni Magazine
of Washington and Lee

December 1989

- POT eee Sy eae ee

     

 

    
  
      

  

GR DOS RG ESS
ee es ee
Dis Sa Ea

V7 a RR TS ale ed

     

= ?
ee ag

    

a Ce aed ete ~ , oS

¥ _ es , at + oe

; tage SF.
Se Ie We 4
ae ag:

Size

Cc

  
 

 

 

a ®
-
©

te”
.
-_"
m aes
_
} —

 

 

The Nazis’ Early Days
A Conversation with B. S. Stephenson
New Athletic Director Named
Remembering Tiananmen Square

What an exciting, exhilarating fall this has been!

Every day, the news from Eastern Europe seems more start-
ling. East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Bulgaria—the transformation is occurring so rapidly it’s hard to
keep up with it, and changes are taking place now that we
wouldn’t have dreamed possible just a few months ago.

One Washington and Lee alumnus has watched those events
with particular interest. Hans A. Schmitt, ’40, grew up in Nazi
Germany, and he has recently published an account of his
childhood years. An excerpt from the book is reprinted in this
magazine, and we hope it will lend some historical perspective
to the recent events in Europe.

Meanwhile, another W&L graduate has greeted the news from
Europe a little wistfully. J. Gill Holland, ’58, a professor of
English at Davidson College, witnessed the other democracy
movement this year—the one in China—while he was teaching
at Beijing Normal University. Holland saw hopes raised in China
just as they have been in Berlin and Prague—and he saw them
crushed on June 4. He shares reflections on his turbulent months
in the Orient in an article titled ‘‘Beijing Spring.’’

Though we haven’t exactly been party to revolution, it’s been
an exciting fall at Washington and Lee, as well. Michael F. Walsh
was named the University’s new athletic director, and he began
his duties in December. In an interview with our sports editor,
Mike Stachura, Walsh outlines some of his plans for the Generals
and the future of W&L athletics.

Yet even as things change—at Washington and Lee and
around the world—many constants remain. This fall, Professor
B. S. Stephenson, ’40, celebrated the 52nd anniversary of his
association with the University. He has stayed here, he says,
because he loves this place, and he loves to teach. In this issue,
we celebrate his half-century of service, and his dedication to
Washington and Lee.

—A.B.C.

 

ANNE COUuLLING, Editor

Joyce Harris, Associate Editor

BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor

DENISE KUHN, Designer

ELIZABETH PARKINS, Class Notes
Editor

PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

MICHAEL STACHURA, Sports Editor

Communications Advisory Board

Davip M. CLINGER, ’55
JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
ANDREW H. McCuTCHEON, °48
ROBERT MOTTLEY, 64
ELIZABETH OBENSHAIN
FRANK A. PARSONS, 54
MATTHEW W. PAxTOoNn, °49
CHARLES S. Rowe, °45
SARAH K. WIANT, ’78L

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

JoHN D. KLINEDINsT, ’71, ’78L,
President

JOHN W. RosiInson IV, ’72, Vice
President

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and
Director of Alumni Programs

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., 74, Associate
Secretary

Directors

BENJAMIN L. BalLey, ’75

WILLIAM M. Bowen, ’61

JOHN A. COCKLEREECE Jr., ’76, ’79L
James J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
WALLER T. DuDLeEy, ’74, ’79L

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, ’73
VIRGINIA BUMGARDNER GARRISON, ’75L
CLAY T. JACKSON, ’76

RoBert D. LARugE, ’72

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, 70
EDWARD F. MEYERS Jr., 61, ’63L
MICHAEL G. MorGAN, ’68

J. RICHARD O’CONNELL, ’56, ’58L
EuGENE C. PERRY JR., ’75, ’78L
JoHN W. Rosinson IV, ’72

WILLIAM E. SMITH JrR., ’63

WARREN A. STEPHENS, ’79

MICHAEL T. THORNTON, ’70, ’78L
RICHARD R. WARREN, °57

 

On the cover
Cover photo by Jeffery G. Hanna

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee
Volume 64, Number 4, December 1989

 

 

The Nazis’ Early Days

 

For the Love of Teaching

 

Committed to Excellence

11

 

Beijing Spring

17

 

The W&L Fall Gazette

21

 

The Generals’ Report

40

 

Class Notes

45

 

In Memoriam

53

 

And Furthermore

35

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the generosity of Mary

Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published four times a year in September, December, March, and June by Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third-
class postage paid at Cincinnati, Ohio 45214. Signed articles reflect the views of their
authors and not necessarily those of the editorial staff or the University.

' Nfazis’

Early Days

 

In October,
the Louisiana State

University Press published Lucky Vic-
tim: An Ordinary Life in Extra-
ordinary Times, 1933-1946, written by
Hans A. Schmitt, ’40, professor of
history at the University of Virginia.
The book is an account of Schmitt’s
adolescence and youth, spent first in
Nazi Germany and then in Holland,
England, and the United States, where
he emigrated in 1938 and soon
entered Washington and Lee.

When Adolf Hitler was elected
German chancellor in 1933, Schmitt
was 11 years old and living with his
family in Frankfurt. He recalls that
period of history in Chapter 3 of
Lucky Victim, which is titled, ‘“The
First Months of the Nazi Era.’’ The
following excerpt from that chapter is

reprinted here with permission.
2 W&L

 

 

 

[On] Jan. 30, 1933, at about 11:00
in the morning, the 23rd cabinet of the
Weimar Republic was sworn in at the
presidential palace [in Berlin]. Only
three of its 11 members, Adolf Hitler,
Wilhelm Frick, and Hermann Goering,
were National Socialists. Three other
ministers were holdovers; another had
served in an earlier cabinet. The new
vice chancellor, Franz von Papen,
predicted, ‘‘In two months we will have
pushed Hitler into such a corner, he will
squeal.’’ In the afternoon, Goering and
Frick held a strategy session with two
Catholic leaders: Ludwig Perlitius and
Hans Bell, the latter a signer of the Trea-
ty of Versailles. Certainly the liberals
and Socialists were uneasy. The Nazis
that evening celebrated their apparent-
ly legitimate and peaceful capture of the
chancellery with a torchlight parade. But
nobody saw this day as the beginning of
Germany’s destruction, or could im-
agine its eventual impact on Europe and
the rest of the world.

.. .For the first time since 1918,
streets were renamed on a scale confus-
ing native and tourist alike. Heine,
Mendelssohn, and Ebert gave way to
Hitler, Goering, Horst Wessel, and
names of other heroes of the ‘‘move-
ment.’’ Several new holidays replaced
Constitution Day, and instead of one
national banner, the black-red-and-gold
of the revolution of 1848, two were
adopted by the new government: the
black-white-and-red flag of the empire,
to gain the approval of Germany’s
fuddled conservatives, and the true sym-
bol of the new state, a red flag with a
black swastika on a white circular field

 

in the center. For the first time in Ger-
man history, school was closed to
observe a chancellor’s birthday.

By themselves, these symbolic and
ceremonial innovations were harmless
enough. Other changes seemed, at first,
more comic than tragic. Clubs and
organizations of every kind rushed to
proclaim solidarity with national
socialism. From stamp collectors to cac-
tus fanciers, from hikers to vegetarians,
everyone likened the change in govern-
ment to a second coming. Teachers’
organizations proved particularly
susceptible to the herd instinct. Within
three months all of them had been
assimilated into the National Socialist
Teachers Union. By June, even the
Association of German Teachers of the
Dance got in step, promising earnestly
that it ‘stood firmly. . .behind the peo-
ple’s chancellor Adolf Hitler.’’

.. On May 9, new guidelines for
secondary education emerged. This time
the set of directives originated in the
German Ministry of the Interior, in-
dicating that the jurisdiction that in-
dividual states had traditionally exercis-
ed in this field was now being usurped
by the national government. A
custom of centuries, iden-
tified with those na-

tional founding fathers whom we were
constantly exhorted to emulate, had
been abandoned. But, while that may
have troubled some of our elders, it was
the message, rather than the strategy of
its dissemination, that affected us. The
minister handed down four com-
mandments:

1. ‘‘The German school must form

political man.”’

2. Historical instruction must em-

phasize events after 1914.

3. Students’ ‘‘vision of racial dif-

ferences must be sharpened.”’

4. Greater emphasis must be placed on

physical fitness, to educate German

youth to increased prowess in arms.
. . .As soon as Hitler began housekeep-
ing in the Berlin chancellory, talk of race
filled the air. Nordic man began to
spook every half-educated brain. Girls
began to bleach their hair, and—for all
I know—so did men. But since most
Germans are not blond, in fact not Ger-
manic, other categories of
physical respectability had to be

devised to maintain the myth of the na-
tion’s ethnic cohesion. Terms such as
Saxon, alpine, and dinaric became
euphemisms of racial respectability for
members of the brunette majority,
reassuring them that their antecedents
excluded Semitic, negroid, and other un-
forgivable defects. (In view of the grow-
ing friendship with Japan, it was never
decided where Orientals fitted into this
scale of racial values.)

After the publication of the
ministerial ukase, these preoccupations
also entered our classroom. Herr Doer-
ing, who taught us biology, decided to
put his science at the disposal of national
reeducation. Our dreary sallies into
botanical classification suddenly
stopped. Instead, we were subjected to
protracted measurements of all parts of
our physique not covered by
clothing: arms, hands, noses,
and craniums. The

Upper left, Schmitt in 1934 (from Lucky Victim by Hans A. Schmitt, LSU Press, 1989); above, a Nazi parade (from George C. Marshall Research

Library, Virginia Military Institute).

W&L 3

results were painstakingly recorded on
sheets of graph paper. The proceedings
delighted us, of course. While this went
on, we had no homework; all we had to
do was appear in class, have our dimen-
sions recorded, and keep reasonably
quiet while our teacher accumulated a
formidable set of numbers about each
of us.

.My recollections do not indicate
that any of us took this experiment
seriously. It made us more aware of one
another’s physical characteristics, and
there ensued endless banter over a flat
head, a bulbous nose, or a set of
bowlegs. It was no more or less cruel
than countless other taunts we flung at
one another, and it gave no unusual of-
fense to the victims. Certainly nobody
displayed anxiety regarding the results
of our teacher’s inquiry. No one showed
any desire to ‘‘pass’’ as this type or that.
We assuredly did not recognize that even
as Germans were called upon to
celebrate total, if spurious, unity, this
new ‘‘racial science’’—soon legitimized
by creating university chairs for its
practitioners—was the beginning of new
divisions, eventually between two fixed
classes whom no Hegelian synthesis
could reconcile: survivors, and victims
marked for extinction.

But first came the great day when the
meaning of all Herr Doering’s calcula-
tions was to be revealed to us. I do not
doubt that he consumed much midnight
oil drawing new and exciting lessons
from his columns of figures. How ex-
tensive a presentation he had planned
will never be known, because the new
Linne ineptly began his talk with the
most sensational item on his list of
findings.

Our teacher started with a flourish
by announcing who among us belonged
to the elect, whose cranial, skeletal, and
dermatological characteristics con-
firmed membership in the Nordic race.
To whet our expectations, he announced
that only 7.7 percent of the school
population (Had he measured every
child from grade five to 12?) resided at
the blond and blue-eyed apex of the
human race.

After the statistics came the names
in alphabetical order. Naturally, my
friend and neighbor Fritz Ewald, a wiry,
hawk-faced, ash blond lad, was on the
list. That was to be expected. But when
4 W&L

Herr Doering approached the end of the
alphabet, whose name should he call but
mine! It was the first time in my so-far-
undistinguished school career that I was
in the top 7 percent of anything. What
added to the thrill, however, was not the
honor, neither desired nor prized, but
the sudden overpowering joy with which
I realized that a teacher had just placed
himself completely at my mercy.

The minute he subsided, my hand
shot up. ‘‘Yes, Schmitt,’’ Herr Doering
said with an indulging smile, ‘‘what is
it?’’

**Sir, can persons of Jewish descent
be Nordic?’’ I asked.

‘‘Of course not, my boy. This is the
point of our work,”’ he replied. ‘‘Our
new racial science allows us to identify
and separate such people from the na-
tional community.”’

‘*Then there must be a mistake,”’’ I
said, as humbly as I could. ‘‘My mother
is Jewish.’’

I have no idea what went through
my teacher’s mind during the ensuing
seconds of silence, when the passage of
time seemed suspended. Nor do I know
what my peers thought of my revelation,
which was no news to most of them. I
think that some of them were annoyed
that I was putting a premature end to
our biological holiday. Herr Doering
was momentarily speechless, while his
hands fiddled nervously with his sheets
of graph paper. Then he shuffled them
together in a neat pile, took a deep
breath, and told us to get out our her-
bals. Indeed, I had ruined the entire pro-
ject, and it was back to counting pistils
and stamens. Henceforth I did my
biology homework with unusual
diligence, convinced that this teacher
would miss no opportunity to cause me
difficulties should I be caught un-
prepared. But I need not have worried.
For the rest of the year, in fact for the
rest of my sojourn in this institution, he
did not call my name.

. .The resumption of school [the
next fall] introduced us to a new
classroom ritual. We had always risen
and come to attention when a teacher
entered the class, but now we were to lift
the right hand to eye level and hold it
there, arm extended, until the person of
authority had returned the salute and
given us leave to sit down. This per-
turbed me greatly. No one in my family

gave the Nazi
salute, the stan-
dard obeisance
to our new mas-
ters. How was I
to respond to the
new order? My
parents explain-
ed to me that I
could not violate
school rules, that
I must, there-
fore, raise my
hand with every-
one else, but
under no cir-
cumstance must
I ever say ‘‘Heil
Hitler!”’

I had a feeling
that if I pressed
my own prefer-
ence, which con-
sisted of simply
standing at attention, I would cause
trouble to my parents rather than to
myself. It had become quite clear to me
that the national synchronization of
political beliefs involved adults, while
childhood remained a privileged reserve
of irreverence and irresponsibility. No
informer listened to our conversation;
no law demanded of us new com-
mitments and explicit changes of at-
titude. The fact that children did not
count suddenly turned into an advan-
tage. But I realized that I must not use
this discovery to jeopardize my parents’
safety.

The last great event of 1933 was
Hitler’s visit to Frankfurt. It took place
on Sept. 23 and was to open construc-
tion of the Frankfurt-Darmstadt leg of
the new, grandiose north-south
Autobahn. The fuehrer was to make his
way from the airport to the worksite,
turn the first spade of earth, make a
speech, and dash back to his plane.

By then the government’s stagecraft
knew how to turn even so brief a visit
into an epic occasion. At 7:00 in the
morning a battalion of some 700
unemployed laborers lined up at the
Federal Labor Office. On an improvised
rostrum, decorated with flowers and
flags, the director of the office formal-
ly surrendered his control of this con-
tingent, but not before explaining that
thanks to Hitler’s statesmanship, these

: pa
ra ALU te

The

hee

ra
eee

~
es
aA

on sf
rth lias

Ar

 

 

Photo from George C. Marshall Research Library, Virginia Military Institute.

men were being discharged from the
army of the unemployed to begin work
on this Appian Way of the future.

After three heils to the nation’s
savior, these chosen helots, preceded by
a band of the Frankfurt SA, marched
to the square in front of the stock ex-
change. There followed more speeches
eulogizing the unforgettable occasion,
and more cheers for the man whom one
excited orator described, for the first
time, as ‘‘the greatest German of all.’’
Then the local party chief handed each
of the 700 a spade and bade them
shoulder it like a weapon. The pro-
letarian battalion closed ranks once
again and proceeded in military cadence
to the distant site where construction
was scheduled to begin the next day.

While the working-class elect
tramped to their destination, the
notables rushed in their Mercedes
Benzes to the airport, where a squadron
of planes carrying Hitler, his entire
cabinet, and an assortment of party
luminaries had just landed. After more
panegyrics, and exchanges of bouquets,
the motorcade was organized: Hitler by
himself in the first car, the flowers in the
second, the ministers in the next two
vehicles, and so on.

At the worksite in the municipal
forest, the patriotic sermons continued,
including the announcement by the
Gauleiter and governor of Hesse-Nassau

that all necessary rights-of-way in his
province had been donated by their
selfless owners. Then the chief engineer
in charge of the project reported to the
fuehrer, in soldierly fashion, that 700
German workers had ‘‘fallen in’’ to join
the battle against unemployment. He
handed Hitler what the papers called an
Ehrenspaten (a spade of honor, or
honorary spade—however’ one
translated it, it did not make much
sense), and the ‘‘greatest German’’ seiz-
ed it ‘‘with determination’’ and thrust
it ‘‘vigorously’’ into the ground.

He followed this ceremonial labor
with a few extemporaneous remarks and
shook hands with some of the
workmen—a folksy gesture quickly im-
itated by his retinue of ministers and
minions. For a fleeting moment the
great fraternized with the humble, in a
manner reminiscent of the former
kaiser’s visits to Ruhr factories during
World War I, when he bade the
steelworkers to toil as devotedly at their
‘*anvil’’ as he assured them he labored
for the good of the country on his
throne.

Easily lost in this chronicle of
ceremonies was a brief moment on
Hitler’s return to the airport when he
passed, according to the official report,
a ‘‘cordon of 35,000 cheering
schoolchildren.’’ That was where we
came in. The events of Sept. 23, carried

by all radio stations, brought us yet
another official holiday, half nuisance
and half fun. Fun because it meant no
classes and some time off, nuisance
because most of our day was consumed
dawdling through another noisy mo-
ment in the hectic pageant of contem-
porary history. This time, however, we
advanced from audience to brief
participators.

Early in the morning, while the 700
former unemployed marched with and
without spades, we boarded special
Streetcars that brought us to our
designated spot on the route along
which the motorcade was to travel. This
logistic miracle, bringing each
schoolchild in a matter of hours to a
designated place on the periphery of the
city, undoubtedly gave many school of-
ficials sleepless nights, but our group,
at least, arrived at its destination
without difficulty and on schedule.
Then we stood for hours awaiting the
great moment when Germany’s leaders
would pass before our eyes.

. . -As the hour of Hitler’s arrival
approached, an announcement in-
formed us that a deputation of youths
would wait on the fuehrer before he
passed us, present him with another
bouquet of flowers (1933 was a banner
year for Germany’s flag makers and
florists), and ask him to drive slowly so
that we could have a good look at Ger-
many’s savior.

And then the great moment finally
came. We heard the distant band music,
the Badenweiler March, Hitler’s reputed
favorite, of which repeated perfor-
mances at every public appearance must
have made him as sick as Harry Truman
was, years later, of the Missouri Waltz.
Then the motorcade apparently ex-
ecuted a complicated about-face,
because when its first vehicles reached
us, their sequence had been reversed.
Motorized storm troops began to pass
us, and then successive carloads of
uniformed, impeccably tailored
dignitaries, whose insignia of rank, all
polished to a fine gloss, identified them
as persons of general rank in SA, SS,
and police. Only a few cognoscenti
among us recognized among the oc-
cupants of the lead vehicles our new
mayor, the Gauleiter, and other stars of
the local hierarchy.

Soon the quality of the cast im-

W&L 5

proved. The familiar faces of Goebbels
and Rudolf Hess, the deputy party
leader, slowly floated past, each of them
transfixed with a beatific smile. We
noted that Goebbels had a splendid tan.
Another car, filled with a brace of
generals and cabinet ministers in civilian
clothes, struck us as anticlimactic, prob-
ably, in part, because an approaching
roar indicated that the fuehrer was nigh.
Our eyes turned left in the direction

of the cheers, and the man for whom
they were intended hove into view.
There he was, standing erect in the car,
dressed rather like the poor relation of
the gilded knights who had passed us in
such numbers: brown shirt and black
tie, jodhpurs and jackboots, hatless and
coatless, raising his hand in his personal
version of the national salute—first up
to eye level and then bending the arm
at the elbow until his hand rested palm
upward by his right ear.

For the first and only time,
I saw Hitler. It struck me that
he did not look like the photos
in newspapers, magazines, and
shopwindows. The ascetic and
martial leanness of these like-
nesses was missing from his
fleshy, slightly puffy, im-
mobile, impassive countenance.
It was as if he were passing us
without noticing our presence,
slowly and repeatedly saluting
like a wound-up doll, neither
frowning nor smiling, looking
straight ahead, his gaze riveted
on some distant object that
only he per-
ceived. He

6 W&L

was not taking curtain calls, but giving
a performance that would continue un-
til the doors of his plane had closed
behind him.

Hitler passed us in a matter of
seconds. Before I could articulate in my
mind the character of his actual ap-
pearance and describe to myself the
nature of his visionary aloofness, he had
moved on. It was only then that I
became aware of my own outstretched
arm and my own open mouth shouting,
‘*Heil, Heil,’’ along with the thousands
around me.

Quickly I lowered my hand. I
trembled in a sudden fit of consterna-
tion and embarrassment. What on earth
had made me act like that? I felt
humiliated; I still do when I think of this
moment. No one noticed when I
stopped cheering. No one would have
noticed in this crush if I had simply

stood silent. But the fact
remained that I had join-
ed this chorus of 35,000
cheering children though
I despised and feared the
man they hailed. I had
acted without conscious
awareness of what I was
doing. When I got home,
I confessed to my mother
what had happened. She

consoled me by insisting that involun-
tary gestures did not count. I should just
remember how easy it is to lose control
of one’s body and voice. But I did not
fail to notice that she did not tell my
father of my confession, and I knew bet-
ter than to share this part of the day’s
events with him. He must not know of
this act of betrayal.

My classmates had enjoyed the spec-
tacle and kept talking about it for days.
None of us had ever seen so many
famous men in one motorcade; most of
us, I daresay, never would again. A
great number, as | found out in 1945,
would later pay with their lives for this
moment of excitement.

Life returned to normal. ... My
family kept looking for an exit. In 1934,
when the school curriculum was
drastically altered to do justice to the
first of the educational maxims of the

national revolution, the formation of
**political man,’’ they found an escape
hatch for me by sending me out of the
country to continue my schooling in
Holland. But that is another story, a
turn in my fate of which I had no
premonition in the autumn of 1933.

 

Left, Schmitt with his brother and father (from Lucky Victim by Hans A.
Schmitt, LSU Press, 1989); above, Hitler saluting the crowd (from George C.
Marshall Research Library, Virginia Military Institute).

For the

LOVE

of Teaching

  

by Brian D. Shaw

itting in his comfortably cluttered of-
fice on a warm fall day, the sunlight
catching trails of smoke from two or
three smoldering Lucky Strikes (no filters),
Professor B. S. Stephenson, ’42, contem-
plates his demise.

**When I die,’’ he says, measuring his
phrases for effect and impact, ‘‘the notice
should say, ‘B. S. Stephenson died today. He
loved teaching.’ Next obituary.”’

A visitor reminds Stephenson that
obituaries customarily include biographical
information about the deceased. Perhaps, he
is told, the students and colleagues who have
known him during his 43 years on the
Washington and Lee faculty would like to
know a little more about the man than the
few lines scribbled in his personnel file.

**T am not a bunch of data,’’ he retorts.
**Next question.”’

Steve Stephenson first came
to Washington and Lee in the fall of
1937. He had traveled from his hometown of
Richmond with a group of high school jour-
nalists to attend a meeting of the Student In-
terscholastic Press Association.

‘*We pulled into the main gates down on
the front campus at night,’’ Stephenson
recalls. ‘‘I looked up and saw the Colonnade
with the lights on and knew right then that
this was where I wanted to be.’’

Stephenson turned down a full scholar-
ship at Yale and enrolled as a freshman at
W&L in September of 1938. He planned to
study physics and math but quickly switched

W&L 7

to languages—French, Spanish, and German.
He made the change, he explains, because of
the influence and teaching of three faculty
members—Foster Bradley in French, John A.
Graham in Spanish, and William W. Pusey
in German.

‘‘Of course, I loved languages,’’ Stephen-
son says in the slow, careful manner of
speaking one would expect from a language
teacher. ‘‘But I loved every branch of learn-
ing at that age. All of those men were
outstanding influences in my life.”’

Much as he enjoyed his studies, Stephen-
son also took advantage of many of the ex-
tracurricular activities W&L offered in the
late 30s.

“It is perfectly natural and fitting that
one of the best times of one’s life is as an
undergraduate, but I never had any desire to
be a BMOC. You could say that I spent my
time learning and enjoying life.

**T did a good hunk of partying.”’

Stephenson lists his activities as ‘‘Kappa
Sigma fraternity, the Glee Club, the Ring-
tum Phi, the physics fraternity, and Mary
Baldwin.”’

**Life was marvelous at W&L at that
time,’’ he continues. ‘‘There was a wonderful
spirit here. The fraternities and the school
authorities—we didn’t use the term ‘The Hill’
back then—worked together, despite some
differences, to further W&L ideals. So much
of the essence of Washington and Lee is a
feeling that doesn’t lend itself to words. That
feeling is permeated by friendliness, affec-
tionate regard for others, and a sense of uni-
ty:

tephenson graduated in 1942 with a
degree in German, French, and
Spanish. He remained on campus that

summer to teach in W&L’s first summer
school. Most of the senior faculty members
had been summoned to war by then.
Stephenson himself was given the call later
that year and spent ‘‘many months”’ in north
Africa and Italy with the Army Air Force.

He returned in 1946 to join Washington
and Lee’s German department, and has been
a member ever since. The postwar years were
a heady time on campus, Stephenson says.
The students were older and quite serious,
most having gone right from high school into
military service. They were not quite as eager
as their predecessors had been to embrace
some time-honored Washington and Lee
traditions.

*‘Things began to change at W&L after
the war,’’ he says, peering over his half-

W&L

    

 

moon reading glasses and lighting yet another
Lucky Strike. ‘‘Some students began to com-
plain that it was too hot in summer to wear
a coat and tie all the time. Some moderations
came about in the dress code. Those
modifications grew to where we now have no
dress code. I am not making a value judg-
ment, I’m simply stating a fact.’’

During that time, Stephenson received his
master’s degree in German from the Universi-
ty of Minnesota. In addition to his language
classes, he taught music at W&L for several
years after the death of John Graham in
1947 until Robert Stewart was appointed to
the music faculty. Music, Stephenson says,
**is one of two intellectual passions in my
life, the other being literature.’’ It was a
labor of love for the young professor.

‘‘Bruce Woodruff, a student from Atlan-
ta, and I founded the Concert Guild in the
fall of 1949,’’ he says, with evident pride. To

 

i ; a _ binnisay ok Pe Titans
Mt ,
Aouten trang Te

this day, the Concert Guild remains the
University’s principal vehicle for bringing
musical groups to campus. ‘‘But there was
no University subsidy, and there was a policy
that no admission fee could be charged for

events in the Chapel, so we had to make
money.

‘*We did whatever we could. The best
method was to have students go to the
hospital and sell their blood for $15 a pint.
They gave the money to me and I made them
a chocolate milkshake in return. Luckily,
there were a lot of red-blooded W&L boys in
those days. It was a lot of fun.”’

sk B. S. Stephenson what he cares

about most in this world, and he will

answer without hesitation, ‘‘Wash-
ington and Lee.’’ In the 51 years he has been
involved in the life of the institution, he says,
he ‘‘never had thoughts of departure of any
serious duration.”’

That half-century of service to the Univer-
sity has given him a unique perspective.

*‘The qualities that distinguish
Washington and Lee are, above all, honor,
friendliness, and high regard for the in-
dividual,’’ he believes. ‘‘Those here in
whatever capacity should always hold those
principles firmly in mind. However, I don’t
think that W&L should be afraid of discard-
ing something that is of no value. The notion
of a student body consisting of all white
males is—praise God—now discarded.’’

That statement is a bit surprising coming
from a former staunch opponent of coeduca-
tion. Now that women constitute a third of
the student body, though, ‘‘one has to deal
and deal with joy with the situation as it now
is.’ The anti-coeducation T-shirts and
bumper stickers that appeared when
undergraduate women arrived on campus
were ‘‘downright offensive’’ and should not
have been tolerated. Stephenson counts the
women in his classes as among his brightest
students.

As successful as coeducation has been at
Washington and Lee, Stephenson rejects the
notion that today’s students are superior to’
those of earlier generations.

*“We’ve always had brilliant students in
the student body,’’ he says. ‘‘When I think
of brilliance, I think of the class of 1954, the
best I have known at W&L. Such names
come to mind as Bobby Paxton, Bill
Thomas, Harold Quinn, Henry Turner,
Harry Porter, Jim Conner, Ronnie Deitch,
Fred Lackmann, David Drum, Roy Mat-
thews, Gordon Leggett, George Mitchell,
Glenn Scott, Harry Sherman, Dick Vogler,
Brian Crowley. . .and there are dozens of
others I could mention, too. What a com-
bination of intellectual curiosity, brainpower,

and gentlemanly personality they had! To-
day’s W&L student is very good, but the
quality of students in the past should not be
disparaged.

**Most of the students when I was an
undergraduate and in the ’40s, ’50s, and ’60s
were better prepared to do college work than
the students today,’’ he continues. ‘‘Now-
adays, there are often students with no
knowledge of tenses or parts of speech.
Present-day students read pitifully little. Not
only are they members of a television genera-
tion, they were taught by a television genera-
tion.”’

Also troubling to Stephenson is the sense
that the University is becoming ‘‘alarmingly
bureaucratic, and there is more selfishness
among the students and those employed here.
There’s a connection between Washington
and Lee and the outside world in that regard,
but I’ve always thought of W&L as a special
place where people could choose the path
they wanted to pursue and not be bound to
become part of some great, faceless mass.
There is a lot of my W&L that I look around
for and don’t see.’’

What Stephenson does still see, however,
is the special student-faculty relationship that
remains an essential part of a Washington
and Lee education.

**The accessibility of faculty to students
here is just about the greatest thing we have
to offer a student,’’ he believes. ‘‘That is
true of the past and present.”’

Stephenson himself seems to be the em-
bodiment of that Washington and Lee tradi-
tion of faculty who are accessible, who are
friends to their students. Anyone who works
to cut through the crusty, curmudgeonly de-
meanor of Steve Stephenson—and earn his
respect—will find a man who places devotion
and friendship above all other values.

**I’m just a person who takes the word
‘friend’ very seriously,’’ he says, lowering his
eyes as if embarrassed by the admission. ‘‘I
look at the whole damned world as my
friend until someone gives me the opportuni-
ty to be otherwise. Then I can be mean as
hell. But I guess I’m more inclined to cut
people off than to be mean as hell to them,”’’
he adds, as an afterthought.

**‘When students go into class that first
day they are absolutely terrified of him,”’’
says Kirk Follo, ’67, a former student of
Stephenson and now a colleague in the Ger-
man department. ‘‘But then they find out he
really cares about them and what they’re see-
ing is merely the gruff exterior. He is
devoted to teaching, to students, and to.

W&L

10

Washington and Lee. This is his family.’’
That devotion is often reciprocated by
Stephenson’s students, who have shown their

loyalty to him in unusual ways.

Every other year, Stephenson assigns to
his 20th-century German literature class
Tonio Kroger by Thomas Mann. Students
memorize passages from the book, which
deals with the experiences of an artist sur-
rounded by non-artists. The novel frequently
has a profound impact on undergraduates
who feel out of place and far from home.

More than 20 years ago, Stephenson re-
ceived a phone call late one night from a
Lexington police officer who had apprehend-
ed two of his students, Bill Supon and Fred
Taussig. The pair had been caught atop the
sign at the Lexington Kroger store as they at-
tempted to place an umlaut over the o.

They just wanted to wish their German
professor a happy birthday.

‘*T always look on students as my friends
and worthy of my friendship,’’ Stephenson
says. ‘‘In addition to the Honor System, the
very essence of Washington and Lee, the
greatest thing it has to offer, is the closeness
between faculty and students.’’

‘*T learned more from him, both as pro-
fessor and friend, than I have from anyone
else,’’ says Roanoke attorney Nick Leitch,
84, ’87L. ‘‘But not just about German. He
taught me about music, literature, art, and
life. He is everything you could ever want in
a professor and friend.’’

n the front porch of Stephenson’s
house on Lexington’s Lewis Street is
a large black-and-gold sign made by
Doug Jackson, ’79, that reads ‘‘RANDOM.?’’
Do not, however, call his home ‘‘Random
House.”’ That is missing the point, and it
makes its owner ‘‘mad as hell.’’

**T live my life at Random. I prefer it that
way,’ Stephenson says. ‘‘If I invite people
for supper at Random and serve them half of
yesterday’s cold hot dog, they have no right
to complain.”’

Stephenson has lived at Random for
several years. Before that, he lived in the
barn on the Col Alto estate in Lexington.
The barn was famous among students and
colleagues for the large dinner parties
Stephenson gave (‘‘I can cook with the best
of them, but I’m not much of one to follow
the recipe. I like to see what becomes of it
all as I go along’’) and the garden he put in
every year.

**1’m a died-in-the-wool teacher, but I’m

W&L

2
-
. he

>.

——

a born farmer,” he says. ‘‘There are two
things in life that make me happy: seeing a
student catch on and make progress and get-

 

ting my hands in the earth. The two have
something in common. Seeing a student grow
and fostering that growth is like helping a
flower or a tree to grow. It’s the same
thing.”’

As Stephenson approaches retirement, he
has begun thinking about what he might do
to occupy his time. He has reached no con-
clusions. Travel is an option, but, he says,
**I’m a lousy tourist. I like to go one place
and stay there.’’

Most likely, he will spend his time doing
what he has done for the last 43 years—
reading, listening to music, cooking, and
gardening.

‘*T am most grateful for two things. One,
that I have had the opportunity to earn my
living doing what I want most to do. I don’t
think God gives any greater blessing. And
two, the wonderful friendship of students
and faculty who have been so essential to
me.

**T truly don’t know how I will react
when my first September comes in retirement
and I don’t head for the classroom. If retire-
ment is as good as my life as a teacher, then
it will be enormously worthwhile.”’

He stops and laughs.

**‘Now doesn’t that sound like Mr.
Chips?”’

» => a : = ee . tee ae
por ad Sd ete See

 

Excellence

 

 

 

 

Committed to

 

 

On Dec. 1, Michael F. Walsh became the
fifth athletic director in Washington and
Lee’s history.

He succeeds William D. McHenry, ’54,
who resigned the post last summer. After a
year’s leave of absence, McHenry will remain
at W&L as chairman of the physical educa-
tion department.

Walsh, 41, comes to Washington and Lee
from Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H.,
where he has spent the past nine years as
head coach of the varsity baseball team and
assistant athletic director. In 1987, his
baseball team finished the season with a
24-14 record, the Ivy League title, the No. 1
ranking in New England, and a place in the
NCAA Division I cham-
pionships. That same year,
Walsh was named North-
east and New England
Coach of the Year and
was a finalist for national
Division I Coach-of-the-
Year honors.

The second of 10
children, Walsh grew up
in Attleboro, Mass., a
small town in the
southeastern part of the
state. He spent two years
at St. Anselm College in
Manchester, N.H., before
transferring to the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts. In
high school, Walsh had
excelled in basketball and
baseball, and a profes-
sional career seemed pro-
mising for the young left-
handed pitcher when he
tried out with the San
Francisco Giants. But two
weeks later, his pitching arm was injured,
and he was never able to throw well again.

‘*That injury was really a godsend,’’ he
says, ‘‘because I still loved sports, and I

 

wanted to stay involved on some level.’’ His
coaching career began during his student days
at the University of Massachusetts, where he
served as a ‘‘glorified manager’’ for the
university’s basketball team.

The team included an unknown soph-
omore who hadn’t yet played in a varsity
game. That player’s name was Julius Erving.
Every day, Walsh filmed Erving in practice.
It was an unforgettable experience.

**In those days, you couldn’t dunk the
ball during the games,’’ Walsh recalls. ‘‘But
once I was standing up in the balcony film-
ing a practice, and Julius made a move that
I’m sure had never been made until then. I
dropped the camera right off the balcony.’’

During his time at the University of
Massachusetts, Walsh also helped coach at
local high schools. Following his graduation,
he entered law school with hopes of becom-
ing a sports attorney, but he ‘‘realized that in
order to become a sports attorney, you really
had to become an attorney first, and I didn’t
have a lot of interest in that.’’ So he re-
turned to the University of Massachusetts,
where he studied sports administration.

In 1973 he became the freshman basket-
ball coach at Amherst College, and the
following year he was named head coach of
the baseball and basketball teams and assis-
tant football coach at Massachusetts’ North-
field Mount Hermon School, where he also
worked in the admissions office. Seven years
later, he moved to Hanover.

Walsh and his wife of 20 years, Jean,
have four children.

Just after his appointment as athletic
director was announced, Walsh took a few
moments out of his schedule to speak with
the Alumni Magazine’s sports editor, Mike
Stachura, ’86. The following are some of his
perspectives on Washington and Lee and the
state of college athletics in America today.

This is the last in a series of articles in the
Alumni Magazine about Washington and
Lee’s athletic program.

W&L 11

12

W&L

 

 

What made you decide to
come to Washington and
Lee?

Over the past three or four years, I’ve
wanted to pursue a career in administration
at a school with high academic standards. I
think that presently, Division III represents
the best philosophy in intercollegiate
athletics, and, unlike a lot of people, I don’t
consider moving to Division III a step
backward. I consider it a step forward.

I was looking for a school with academic
standing, with a well-rounded athletic pro-
gram, where financial aid is awarded accord-
ing to the need of the family; where a stu-
dent is accepted on his or her own ability to
do the work at the school and not to bring
athletic glory to the university or college.

Any number of Division III
schools would fit that bill.
Is there anything in partic-
ular that attracted you to
Washington and Lee?

The people I met impressed me the most.
The members of the athletic department were
all very positive about their jobs. They seem-
ed to be committed not only to coaching but
to teaching, and they’re interested in more
than one sport. You need some diversity, and
it’s tough when someone gets the single-
mindedness that you have in Division I
programs.

Obviously the location of Washington and
Lee is incredible, too. I was really attracted
by W&L’s academic strengths. It’s not only
on a par, it surpasses many of the private
schools in New England.

What are the strengths and
weaknesses of Washington
and Lee’s athletic program?
What do we do well, and
what areas need to be im-
proved?

Overall Washington and Lee has done
very well during the past decade. When you
look at the total athletic program, there are
more wins than losses, and the players seem
to have enjoyed their experience. W&L
graduates its athletes, and I think the Univer-
sity does a nice job of providing oppor-
tunities for athletes to participate on the
Division III level.

Sports are cyclical, and some sports are
hot at one time and not at other times. But I
think it’s a well thought-out athletic pro-
gram, offering sports which the students
seem to be interested in.

What does your experience
at Dartmouth bring to
Washington and Lee?

I see many similarities between the two
schools. When I arrived at Dartmouth it had
just gone coed, and they were groping with
how to handle that within the athletic depart-
ment. The issues of equity and opportunity
for men and women were critical. I think
that Dartmouth’s record indicates that
they’ve handled it probably better than any
institution in the Northeast in terms of their
commitment to the women’s program.

I arrived at Dartmouth at a time when
the flagship sport, football, had reached a
low, and many people were blaming coeduca-
tion. There’s a similar situation now at
Washington and Lee, where some alumni are
concerned that lacrosse hasn’t been where
they want it to be. I think there are a
number of reasons why that’s so, and it’s not
because Washington and Lee is coed or
because there’s less of an emphasis on
lacrosse. It’s not by institutional design that
lacrosse is not where it has been in the past.

Really, Dartmouth is a larger Washington
and Lee. We had more sports and a larger
coaching staff, and we had a national reputa-
tion so we could get a lot of kids interested
in the school. Washington and Lee provides
that, too.

Washington and Lee represents a
manageable athletic situation, and I think
that on the Division I level, things are
unmanageable.

 

 

James V. Stagnitta, the former number one assistant coach at the
University of Pennsylvania, has been named head coach of men’s
lacrosse at Washington and Lee.

Stagnitta began his duties at W&L on Dec. 1. He becomes the 12th
head coach of men’s lacrosse in the University’s history and succeeds
Dennis A. Daly, who was reassigned duties in the athletic department
last summer.

‘*It’s with great enthusiasm that I announce the selection of Jim
Stagnitta as the new head coach of men’s lacrosse at Washington and
Lee,’’ said Michael F. Walsh, W&L’s new athletic director.

‘*His wealth of experience as both a player and a coach and his
experience at an Ivy League institution will serve him well here. He
is regarded as one of the finest young lacrosse coaches in the nation,
and we look forward to having him join our staff.’’

As a student at Penn, Stagnitta was a three-year letterwinner and
a starting defenseman. He led the Quakers to two Ivy League titles,

 

 

including the school’s first in 1983. The 1984 Penn team was ranked

 

third in the nation.

The Quakers compiled a 33-18 cumulative record during Stagnitta’s college
career and a 22-5 mark during his final two seasons.

Following his graduation from Penn in 1984, Stagnitta returned to his native
Syracuse, N.Y., and served for one season as an assistant lacrosse coach at Hud-
son Valley Community College, where he guided the squad to the regional finals
of the National Junior College Tournament.

He then served as an assistant coach at Bishop Ludden High School and Cicero
High School in Syracuse in 1986. His teams posted a record of 22-11 during that
span.

Stagnitta joined the Penn staff in August 1987 as head coach Tony Seaman’s
only full-time assistant. His responsibilities included all aspects of coaching, fall
conditioning, recruiting, budgeting, and alumni programs.

Since returning to his alma mater, Stagnitta has helped lead the Quakers to
two consecutive NCAA tournaments, including a Final Four appearance in 1988,
when the underdog Pennsylvanians came within a last-minute goal of upsetting
eventual national champion Syracuse. The final score in that matchup was 11-10.

Penn won the 1988 Ivy League title and has compiled a 20-9 record during
Stagnitta’s two seasons as assistant coach.

‘*T am very excited about the opportunity to come to Washington and Lee and
serve as lacrosse coach,’’ Stagnitta said. ‘‘Washington and Lee is a place with
a great academic and athletic history, and it is a great privilege to be a part of
that tradition.’”’

Junior midfielder Clark Wight of Baltimore said of the appointment, ‘‘Stagnitta
is very enthusiastic and is just what our program needs. The team is looking for-
ward to starting this season with Coach Stagnitta at the helm.’’

Stagnitta
named
men’s
lacrosse
coach

 

 

One of your first official I would hope to make a statement to the
duties at W&L was to find Washington and Lee community that we

; want people who can motivate young men
a coach for the men’s and women, whose first concern is about the

lacrosse team. What qual- people who play in the program.

ities do you look for in an

We want someone who is technically
sound, too, and I think that is sometimes

appointment such as this? overlooked. The individual must be
philosophically in tune with a strong
With the appointment of any new coach, academic institution with need-based financial

W&L 13

 

 

 

 

 

14

W&L

aid; someone who understands that the sport
is important in the life of the student, but it
should not be the dominant factor.

I would want someone who can instill
pride in the program and make certain that
the students strive for excellence, someone
who will demonstrate a tremendous desire to
win within the rules of Division III. At the
same time, the students need to have a good,
healthy experience.

What other concerns in the
athletic department need
your immediate attention?

We need to look at the athletic facilities,
which appear to be fine, although I think
there’s a need to renovate the stadium area.
An indoor facility might be needed sometime
in the future to accommodate what I would
hope would be an expanding physical educa-
tion and intramural program. A facility like
that could provide indoor tennis oppor-
tunities, too, and places for the spring sports
to play when the weather is bad.

Of course, these things cost money, but
they may be necessary if Washington and Lee
wants to keep pace with the top schools in
the country. We wouldn’t want to put down
a new type of surface just because it’s the
thing to do, but if it’s needed we would want
to do it in a first-class manner. I’m sure that
over time and with the help of the staff, I’ll
be able to decide what facilities we need to
support the overall mission of the University.

Should Washington and Lee
expand the number of inter-
collegiate sports it offers?

You always need to reevaluate and make
certain that the sports you’re offering are
ones that your students want to participate
in. Clearly, at some schools, sports are of-
fered for the benefit of the alumni, and
although the alumni are an identified consti-
tuency, sports shouldn’t be offered simply
because the alumni feel that they should be
offered.

At the same time, you shouldn’t be offer-
ing sports where you have to manufacture in-
terest. One of the reasons I was attracted to
Washington and Lee was that they seem to
have taken a reasonable approach to adding
sports when the school coeducated. Clearly,
any new sports now would be in the area of
women’s athletics, but I don’t have any
specific sports that I would like to add.

What about intramurals?

I think a strong intramural program is
essential within the area of physical activity
on the college campus. It really helps to
engender school spirit. You’d like to see as
high a percentage as possible participating in
intramurals. It doesn’t simply have to be
basketball or soccer or softball, but all sorts
of activities—aquatics, table tennis, pool,
squash, racquetball.

You want to provide many opportunities
for young people to stay physically active,
because not everyone has the interest or the
ability to participate in intercollegiate
athletics.

What is the proper relation-
ship between the athletic
department and the admis-
sions office?

It’s obvious that to attract the type of
student that Washington and Lee wants,
there has to be recruiting. That’s borne out
by the fact that the admissions office travels
all over the country to spread the word about
Washington and Lee.

You always need to keep in mind that in
the athletic recruiting process, initially you’re
going to contact many prospective students.
But when you actually begin the hard part of
recruiting, you should be contacting only
those students who fit the academic profile
of the University.

It’s incumbent upon the coaches to
understand that. The admissions office tells
you the guidelines, and you need to recruit
people within those guidelines. The dif-

 

 

ficulties at most schools pop up when the
students the coaches have recruited fall out-
side those guidelines. That hasn’t been the
case at Washington and Lee, and I know
that it’s not going to be the case.

Should Washington and Lee
continue its involvement in
the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference, or should we
change the schools we com-
pete against?

You’d like to be in a league alignment
with schools who are similar to you
academically and who would be recruiting the
same types of student-athletes that you are
seeking. Of course, Washington and Lee is
also a victim of its own geography. My quick
assessment of the ODAC is that there is too
great a disparity between the schools
academically and that some method needs to
be established that would lessen that
disparity.

You’d like to be involved in a program
where all things being equal, you’re com-
peting on a level field. That’s the beauty of a
well-balanced league: If everyone follows the
same rules and has pretty much the same
guidelines, no one gains an unfair advantage.
Then it’s up to the institution how well they
do athletically.

You try to prevent sending a team out on
the field without a chance to win. Everyone
likes to win, but the important thing is to go
out and have a chance to win. Assuming that
your team is well-conditioned, well-prepared,
and well-coached, you should have a shot at
winning.

What is the proper relation-
ship between an institution’s
athletic department and its
alumni body?

It’s a relationship that needs to be nur-
tured. Alumni love the university. They want

to see it do well. Most alumni are very
moderate in their approach to athletics, and
that’s what we want to encourage.

Some alumni at schools around the coun-
try are overzealous, and even some of those
are healthy in a program as long as you can
keep them from trying to apply pressure on
the admissions office or financial pressure,
particularly as it relates to the student-
athletes. That’s why the NCAA has estab-

 

 

 

lished all sorts of rules and regulations which
very clearly outline the involvement that the
alumni can have.

At Washington and Lee, the alumni are a
very positive part of the athletic program,
and the ones I’ve met and spoken to all love
Washington and Lee. They want to do
what’s best for the school in the 1990s.
Although I’m sure some long for the return
to the Gator Bowl, they know it’s not going
to happen.

What are your thoughts
about the state of college
athletics in general today?

I think the pursuit of revenue through
athletic excellence is deplorable. Yet the ma-
jority of major institutions in this country
follow that course. Some very serious
changes need to be made on the Division I
level to lessen the pressure on the students
and the coaches.

Dick Schultz [executive director of the
NCAA] is moving in the right direction, I
think, but many times as the world becomes
more complicated you find out that less is
actually more. College athletics needs to look
at itself and take what would appear to be a
step backward and say, ‘‘We’re going to
have shorter seasons. We’re going to have
smaller coaching staffs. We’re going to have
less interregional play until we get to the
NCAAs.’’

Some form of revenue sharing has to be
established as well with regard to basketball
contracts. You see schools doing things sim-
ply because they think that their basketball
team can get into the first round of the
NCAA and make a little cash, and by mak-

W&L 15

 

 

ing that cash they can help to run the other
programs.

That’s the beauty of Division III; that’s
the beauty of Washington and Lee. We have
a very healthy budget to run the athletic pro-
gram, and that budget comes from the
unrestricted funds of the University. The
University is committed to offering an
athletic program and intramurals and
physical education. It’s not dependent upon a
booster club or a sponsors’ group or alumni
contributions.

I’m not so naive as to think that Division
I is going to go back to that. But I think on
the Division I level, more and more people
are starting to come back to the Ivy
philosophy as it relates to revenue, and try to
be more broadbased in their offerings.

It’s difficult, though, because many in-
stitutions define themselves by how they are
perceived athletically. So you have incredible
resources being put into the athletic program
in hopes that they can have a winning team
and be featured in USA Today and in the
long run, it’s self-defeating.

Does anything lead you to
believe that drugs are a
serious problem in W&L’s
athletic program?

I don’t have any firsthand knowledge of
the drug usage at Washington and Lee. I
know overall in the country, drug usage has
increased, especially if you
think of alcohol as a legal
drug.

On an athletic level, you
have to look at the perfor-
mance-enhancement drugs—
steroids—which clearly have
been proven to be harmful to
those who take them. The
pressures of Division I have
forced many athletes to con-
sider using steroids, but I don’t see that
pressure being as severe on the Division III
level.

I don’t like to use the term, but I think

 

so-called ‘‘recreational’’ drugs are a greater
concern on the Division III level. Part of
being a college student is exploring and learn-
ing about yourself, and part of it, too, is the
social aspect, which often involves drinking
and some drug usage. I would really want to
discourage that at Washington and Lee or
any school, because the lifelong effects of ac-
quiring a drinking habit or a drug usage
habit in college are very difficult to correct.
I’m pleased that Washington and Lee has
a good drug education program. I think that
the system needs to be one where the student
feels that he or she can go in and get help
and remain anonymous so that his or her
privacy is protected. Training rules are
helpful, and hopefully we’ll have a policy
that will be consistent with producing well-
conditioned, well-trained athletes who know
the importance of taking care of their bodies.

What is your vision for
athletics at Washington and
Leer

Athletics ought to be a part of the overall
college experience, so that when students
leave Washington and Lee they can say, ‘‘I
learned a great deal about myself. I learned
how to get along with other people. I learned
how to be a giver and not a taker.’’

Athletics have to be a part of the ex-
perience that the kids enjoy. I don’t want to
appear to be too Pollyannish about this,
because part of their having an enjoyable ex-
perience is winning. I want the students to
learn that we in the athletic department are
committed to winning, committed to ex-
cellence and to doing the best we can. You’re
not going to win every game, of course.
You’re not going to get a hit every time up;
the goalie’s not going to stop every shot.

But you have to make an effort to be the
best you can be. The pursuit of excellence is
tantamount to the overall academic mission
of the University, and that’s what we want to
have in the athletic department.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 

Gill Holland, a professor
of English at Davidson
College, spent the 1989
spring semester teaching at
Beijing Normal University
as part of an exchange
program. Holland and his
wife, Siri, are pictured at
right with friends. Above,
Woody Heath, ’90 (right),
and friend Bowen
Vanderberry stand in
Tiananmen Square. A
story about Heath’s
adventures in China is on
page 38. (Photos on pages
19, 20, and 39 by Bowen
Vanderberry.)

ur plane from Bali arrived in

Hong Kong on time, but we

were midnight getting to win-
try Beijing, where we found ourselves
in the good care of school officials.
We would travel the long tree-lined
drive from the airport just one more
time before fleeing June 7. That was
an early spring morning when our
daughter, Siri Lise, ’90, flew back to
W&L for spring term. Returning in
the dawn light, we saw lovers of ear-
ly exercise lost in slow-motion ritual.
One man seemed to be in commu-
nion with a tree. Well, anything is
possible in China in such a beautiful
time of the year. Our taxi was a
Japanese model called ‘‘Cedric.’’ We
doubted the name would sell at
home. Back at Beijing Normal
University, we lived in the Foreign

Expert Building; one had to guard
against seductive Chinese
nomenclature. Early-morning TV
exercise classes featured a tall teen-

Gill iota

   

58

W&L 17

ager whose grace, vigor, and youth-
ful body took one’s breath away.

All seemed right with the world.
As we walked down to class the
spring ‘‘willow cotton’’ filled the air.
When the first cherry blossoms came
out our daughter and I took a snap-
shot of a branch; we waved at the
men working on the new library who
were laughing at us. The spring
transformation from dark February
was beyond belief. The first weeks
we had said to ourselves, ‘‘We knew
it wouldn’t be a picnic. We’ll just
suck it up and hang in there.’’ A
spring we never imagined lay ahead.

My wife, Siri, and I taught in the
foreign language department at the
premier school for the training of the
future teachers of China; students
from all over China studied inside
the walls of BNU. The main gate
into the university and our lesser gate
a bit north opened onto a boulevard
which ran due south by the subway
station by the Drum Tower, over a
canal in which winter swimmers
dipped and, later in June, a missing
soldier might be found floating; and
on for 40 minutes by bus to
Tiananmen Square.

Directions in Beijing are always
given compasswise. Husband to wife
in narrow bed, the story goes:
‘Honey, would you please slide a lit-
tle east so I can turn over?’’ Out of
the campuses in the northwest
quadrant began the first spring mar-
ches. Farther north was the Great
Wall, which we visited twice on uni-
versity tours, and the Ming Tombs.
The first trip, snow and fog made
visibility impossible from the summit,
but as we drove up the first impres-
sion was the one for keeping. The
monster looked like a dragon fash-
ioned of stone whose notched back
lay dead over the iron mountains of
north China.

I turned and asked the Russian
teacher behind us in Chinese if that
were not the Great Wall. She nod-
ded. Her English turned out to be
good. I am not sure she understood
my Chinese, but she knew the Great
Wall. At the Ming Tombs she called
our attention to the tune coming over
the loudspeaker, ‘‘Tea for Two.”’
She and the other Soviets were look-

18 W&L

ing forward greatly to Mrs. Gor-
bachev’s visit to our campus. On our
second trip to the Great Wall in the
spring, the fragrance of thousands of
trees in blossom blessed us as we ate
lunch high up and watched friends
climb farther over the ruins until the
blue specks of their jackets were all
we could see.

East across the boulevard from
BNU were handicraft factories,
grocery stores, two camera shops
named for birds, and a brand-new
women’s fashion shop which opened
after winter left. We stopped for the
opening sale and caught the familiar
sight of a toddler in split pants
squatting by his mother and peeing
in the middle of the new parquet
floor.

Up the street, vendors in stalls
sold books, cigarettes, magazines,
clothes, vegetables, eggs; or repaired
shoes, bicycles, and watches. Per-
sonal seals could be carved, fortunes
told, weight guessed—it was a center
of resourcefulness. The bicycles and
pedicabs and tricycles transported
sweethearts veiled against the dust;
sofas; even the occasional piano.
Some time ago this entire area was
the large Iron Lion Cemetery. Locals
said there were too many people now
for ghosts.

o need to dwell on our wants
N: the classroom: enough

heat, enough light, any text-
books. I wore two sets of longjohns
and lectured pacing at the head of
the class, the students still and cold.
In Taiwan at least there had been
money for pirated books. Instructors
selected materials to be reproduced
and handed out; I wrote many a
short passage on the board to be
copied.

One day after the strike got
underway a new message sang out in
two giant Chinese characters on the
blackboard in our deserted
classroom: BA KE, ‘‘strike class’’; in
smaller characters below was a two-
line slogan that would reappear:
‘*Blood for blood, freedom and
democracy.’’ Students had already
been beaten. Blood ran like a scarlet
ribbon on the banners of the

demonstrators and later in the street;
after the massacre, ‘‘Blood-Bright
Dare-To-Die’’ was the name of an
underground band who announced
that each month they would murder
one Japanese collaborating with the
government. I read in the newspaper
this morning, Nov. 15, that a similar
threat against Toyota has been made.

We got to know three Chinese
colleagues in the department, all of
whom had earned master’s degrees
abroad and spoke excellent English.
Most teachers had to moonlight to
earn enough to live; veteran pro-
fessors made $50-$60 in U.S. dollars
a month; spouses worked. With in-
flation, most of the income went to
food. All of the students at BNU
were headed into teaching; their
morale was low because not only
were the salaries rock-bottom, but
also, in the land of Confucius, the
teacher enjoyed no prestige. Even
positions were assigned throughout
the country; you could not seek the
job or the location you wanted. Since
economic liberalization, a few future
teachers had left school to become
street vendors; they made money.

Spirits were improving, however,
by early spring. Deng Xiaoping had
conceded publicly that in one impor-
tant respect the government had
fallen down: Education had been
neglected over the last 10 years. The
situation would be rectified. A stu-
dent, proud of such a leader, told us
that Mao never admitted making
mistakes. Things were going to get
better for teachers. In June, Deng
corrected himself; he meant political
education had been neglected.
Another June quotation from his
grandfatherly lips was, ‘‘We still
have the army.’’ Jay Gould, the New
York robber-baron and railroad
magnet, is supposed to have said
once after getting away with the
spoils, ‘‘Thank God. Nothing lost
save honor.’’

here was dust enough in our

i building, but two ghosts
should be laid to rest. First,
the library had to be locked during

mealtime because Chinese students
would starve to study. That was no

4

longer true. What dedication in those
earlier days! A colleague regretted
that we were not teaching the

students of seven years ago. Second,
the Chinese student mind was an
organ of rote memory. We had been
warned that the Chinese mind would
be more passive than the less
disciplined but more creative
American student brain. Not so.

One short story in particular they
bit into—‘‘Eveline,’’ by James Joyce.
A young woman is stuck in Dublin
caring for her aging, selfish father.
Should she leave with her fiance on
the ship to Buenos Aires? Does she
owe a debt to youth or to age? What
should she do? The story ends with a
cry on the wharf as the ship is set-
ting sail. The students took Eveline’s
dilemma to heart. They scrutinized
the forces pulling her apart, and their
written papers on little Eve strained
their English.

Milton’s tribute to his second
wife, who died after childbirth, they
also liked. In a dream he imagined
her to come back to him ‘‘vested all
in white, pure as her mind’’:

Her face was veiled, yet to my fan-
cied sight

Love, sweetness, goodness, in her
person shined

So clear, as in no face with more
delight.

But O, as to embrace me she
inclined,

I waked, she fled, and day brought
back my night.

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

  

nd —
fot ae nae
Pee Ps 2: Se
; Pe ge Nr

That Milton may have been blind
when they met and married and had
never seen her face, astonished them,
as it continues to astonish me. She,
as pure as her mind, slipped away as
their own dreams would in the dark
capital on June 3 and 4.

Though hard-eyed to corruption
and wasted lives, these young people
were idealistic about many things.
They believed it possible to live
nobly. China could become great. As
for Milton’s civil war, they all had
stories about the Cultural Revolu-
tion. Earlier decades of the civil and
anti-Japanese wars were the subject
of books and films. I cannot forget
the scene behind the credits for one
TV serial based on those bloody
times: a row of stakes on which four
or five men tossed, their heads set
afire.

The weekly compositions that the
70 juniors wrote for Siri, who had
been drafted to fill a vacancy, gave

 

——

 

us privileged glimpses. These papers
about Spring Festival or special peo-
ple or places took us into their lives.
Their papers opened a door to
China. We asked permission to
distribute a newspaper article on
suicide in China. One picture remains
vivid. A woman student from the
provinces, pride of the village, had
gone away to the university. Last
fall, after two years of struggle, she
killed herself in one of our
classrooms. The writer of the paper
found her hanging in a red dress by
the desk in the dim classroom.

A harsh majesty showed through
in the papers. Sometimes a scrap of
feeling crept in. Reading one day, I

W&L 19

came across a question added in the
margin: ‘‘Do you believe in God?”’
At this distance my answer shrinks:
‘*Everybody believes in something.’’
We were counting on more slow time
with our students. Suddenly the
demonstrations began. We had
planned on picnics and plenty of
time to get to know the young people
better, snapshots.

he demonstrations which

began with the death of Hu

Yaobang on April 15 proceed-
ed through two phases on their way
to the catastrophe. Hu was the
students’ champion who stood up in
a party meeting and asked the
bosses, ‘‘Which one of you does not
have a numbered Swiss bank ac-
count?’’ His was a double mourning,
for Zhou Enlai’s public funeral in
1976 had been aborted.

For the first month we were
witnessing Wordsworth’s blissful
dawn of the French Revolution.
When the army began to move into
the city, citizens swarmed over the
trucks and let the air out of their
tires. Great God, this is the way to
have a war! Just north of us, when
the crowd stopped a line of army
vehicles, a lieutenant shouted, ‘‘We
want to help you keep order!’’ The
proud people of Beijing cried, ‘‘We
don’t need your help,’’ then
showered the troops with food and
drink. An eyewitness saw an army
officer eating a popsicle forced on
him by a citizen; tears were coming
down his cheeks. Yes, this is our
kind of war, I thought.

Then the hunger strike began.
The glowing faces of skinny students
headed south to the Square, a three-
hour walk. Vendors gave them food.
The fasters downtown began to col-
lapse, and the sirens began. Vans and
ambulances donated from all sides—I
saw the Italian Red Cross minibus go
by—rushed the ill to hospitals. As
soon as they recovered, many went
right back into the game. One stu-
dent at the student boiled-water brick
house where Ted Koppel began his
TV special told me he had been
taken to the hospital eight times
while fasting. Now, he said, he got
lots to eat. He must have been kid-

20 W&L

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

ding me.

Then 11 students from BNU took
an oath to burn themselves alive
when the first hunger-striker died.
That was more than we had bar-
gained for. We were stunned. Ad-
ministrators and faculty members
went down to try to talk them out of
the idea. From then on, every morn-
ing that began with no news was a
gift.

ver the main gate into the

university a banner read:

*‘SUPPORT THE
STUDENTS LOVE THE COUN-
TRY.”’ The rolling syntax suggested
mutuality; the Chinese language
allows students to be the direct ob-
ject of support and the subject of the
verb /ove. The workers and the
students spoke in one voice. Citizens
of the capital and travelers from
other cities, workers, and students
mingled under the slogan at the gate
and up and down the boulevard out-
side the university wall. Banners and
headbands and armbands and T-

oe. et eee

shirts covered with messages recalled
in power the ancient tradition that
calligraphy holds magical properties.
In traditional Chinese medicine, the
proper characters written on a slip of
paper, burnt and mixed in a potion,
worked like medicine when swal-

(continued on page 37)

 

 

 

 

 

Birney, Broadus, Marks named to Board of Trustees

Three alumni were appointed
to Washington and Lee’s Board
of Trustees during the Board’s
October meeting on the campus.

Arthur A. Birney, ’50, ’52L,
Thomas H. Broadus Jr., 59,
and J. Stephen Marks III, 59,
will officially begin their terms
Jan. 1.

Retiring from the Board at the
end of the year are F. Fox Ben-
ton Jr., 60, Justice A. Christian
Compton, °50, ’53L, and
Frances A. Lewis.

Birney is a partner with the
law firm of Hanson, O’Brien,
Birney & Butler in his hometown
of Washington, D.C. He is also
managing partner and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Washington
Brick and Terra Cotta Co., a real
estate investments firm.

He is a trustee of Washington
Real Estate Investment Trust,
president of Port Annapolis
Marina Inc., and director of
Washington Hotel Co.

In addition, Birney is a
member of the board of gover-
nors of his alma mater, St.
Albans School, in Washington.

He is the author of Noon Sight
Navigation, published in 1972,
and Sun Sight Navigation,
published in 1984.

Broadus is managing director
of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc.
in Baltimore. He is also chair-

Ps

—

ae
» ¥ .

 

pirney

man and a trustee of the T.
Rowe Price Equity Income
Fund.

After graduating from W&L,
Broadus received master’s
degrees from both Harvard and
Johns Hopkins Universities. He
is a chartered financial analyst
and a chartered investment
counselor.

He is a trustee of the Walters
Art Gallery, the Baltimore Sym-
phony Orchestra, and the
Gilman School.

Broadus serves as a W&L class

; » me
a

Marks

board of advisers for W&L’s
School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics and is a
member of the advisory board
for W&L’s Institute for Ex-
ecutives and the long-range plan-
ning committee for the Univer-
sity’s special programs.

Marks is vice president of
Credit Bureau Inc. (CBI) in
Houston, a subsidiary of
Equifax Inc.

In 1963 he founded Credit
Bureau Marketing, an informa-
tion services company, which

a

s

 

Retiring from Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees are A. Christian Compton (second from left),
Frances Lewis (center), and F. Fox Benton (far right). They are pictured here with James M. Ballengee, °48,
rector of the Board (far left), and W&L President John D. Wilson.

22 . W&L

Equifax Inc. acquired in 1982.

Marks continued as CBM’s
president until 1985, when he
was named vice president of
Equifax Inc. He joined CBI as
vice president in 1989.

The three retiring trustees were
honored during a dinner held in
conjunction with the Board’s fall
meeting.

Benton has been a Trustee
since 1977. He is a principal in
Walter International Inc., a
privately held oil exploration and
production company in Hous-
ton.

In 1967, he joined Houston
Oil & Minerals Corp., where he
held a number of senior manage-
ment positions, including presi-
dent and chief executive officer.
In 1983 he helped found
Houston Oil Fields Co., which
merged with Plains Resources in
1987.

He has been a member of
Washington and Lee’s Alumni
Association Board of Directors,
the board of Kelsey-Seybold
Foundation, and Houston Lyric
Theater Foundation.

Compton also joined W&L’s
Board of Trustees in 1977. He
was named to the Richmond,
Va., Law and Equity Court
(which is now known as Circuit
Court) in 1966 and was ap-
pointed to the Virginia Supreme
Court eight years later.

He served as national presi-
dent of W&L’s Alumni Associa-
tion in 1972-73 and received an
honorary degree from the
University in 1975.

Lewis was elected to the Board
of Trustees in 1983. A graduate
of the University of Michigan,
she is the former executive vice
president of Best Products Co.
Inc., which she and her husband,
Sydney Lewis, ’40, founded in
1957.

In recognition of the Lewises’
benefactions to Washington and
Lee, the building that houses the
School of Law is named Lewis
Hall. The law school’s Frances
Lewis Law Center is also named
in Mrs. Lewis’s honor.

 

 

 

— -

Twenty-four new teachers were appointed to the Washington and Lee faculty at the start of the 1989-90

 

academic year. They are (standing, from left): Barbara L. Abbott, instructor in psychology; Allan P. Ides,
visiting professor of law; Charles E. Williams, assistant professor of biology; Ken’ichi Ujie, assistant professor
of Japanese; Jarvis A. Hall, ABD fellow in politics; Don J. Dresser, instructor in politics; Timothy A. Mur-
doch, assistant professor of mathematics; Jeffrey C. Barnett, instructor in romance languages; David A.
Badertscher, assistant professor and director of technical services in the University Library; Robert A.
Strong, associate professor of politics and department chairman; Joan H. O’Mara, assistant professor of art;
Darcy L. Russell, assistant professor of biology; and Zhanna Dolgopolova, assistant professor of Russian.
Also (seated, from left): J. William King, assistant professor of accounting; Kipling M. Pirkle, assistant pro-
fessor of administration; John Druzbick, associate professor of physics; David S. Caudill, assistant professor
of law; Virginia L. Smyers, assistant professor and special collections librarian; Cathryn Hankla, assistant
professor of English; and Maryanne C. Simurda, assistant professor of biology. Not pictured are: Robert N.
Davis, visiting associate professor of law; Katherine M. Rogers, assistant professor of religion; William K.
Smith, visiting professor of mathematics; Paul C. Wilson, assistant professor of English; and Allan W. Vestal,

assistant professor of law.

Bezanson, Murchison receive grants for libel project

A collaborative project involv-
ing faculty members from
Washington and Lee and the
University of Iowa has received
two grants totaling $92,000.

The grants will support the
work of the Libel Research Proj-
ect, which examines various
aspects of libel litigation in the
United States. The project’s
principal investigators are Ran-
dall P. Bezanson, dean of
W&L’s School of Law; Brian C.
Murchison, associate professor
of law at W&L; and three
members of the University of
lowa faculty.

The first grant, of $67,000, is
from the John and Mary R.
Markle Foundation of New
York City. The funds will sup-
port work examining the
feasibility of employing non-
litigation techniques for the
resolution of media libel
disputes.

 

Bezanson

 

Murchison

The second grant, which totals
$25,000, was awarded by the
Knight Foundation to support a
study of the establishment and
enforcement of standards of
journalism by the courts,
through the adjudication of libel,
privacy, and related claims.

Both grants will extend into
1991 and will support the costs
of research for the projects and
the preparation of book
manuscripts.

The Libel Research Project
was created in 1981 by Bezanson
and two of his colleagues at the
University of Iowa. Their pur-
pose was to conduct empirical
and legal research in the field of
libel law, to examine the litiga-
tion process for libel and related
claims, and to determine the
feasibility of alternative means
of dispute resolution for such
claims. Murchison joined the
project in 1988.

 

Former student
charged in
hit-and-run

A former Washington and Lee
student has been charged in the
March 16, 1989, death of a
fellow student.

C. Blakely Comer of Green-
ville, S.C., was arrested Nov. 30
and charged with involuntary
manslaughter and hit-and-run in
connection with the death of
WA&L freshman M. Ashley Scar-
borough of Raleigh, N.C.

Comer was a senior at W&L
until he withdrew from school
Dec. 3. According to police, he
has admitted that he drove the
car that hit Scarborough.

The accident occurred about 2
a.m. on March 16 near the Phi
Kappa Psi fraternity house on
Washington Street. W&L
students found Scarborough’s
body lying in the street shortly
after she was hit, and she was
pronounced dead at the scene.

Comer was arrested after Lex-
ington police received a phone
call on Nov. 29 from a man who
identified himself only as a W&L
graduate. He reportedly said that
Comer was driving his parents’
car—a metallic blue Honda
Accord—when he hit Scar-
borough.

Following the accident,
Comer allegedly took the car to
Washington, D.C., and had it
repaired. The car was then re-
turned to his parents.

A horn cover which was found
at the scene of the accident had
led police to believe that the car
which hit Scarborough was a
metallic blue Honda Accord.
During their eight-month in-
vestigation, authorities checked
all Accords registered to students
at W&L and other area colleges
and to residents within a 75-mile
radius.

Police say they did not suspect
Comer because they found no
damage on his car, a dark blue
Accord.

A preliminary hearing in the
case was tentatively scheduled
for late December.

 

W&L 23

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Several hundred return to Lexington for annual Homecoming weekend

 

From football games to Five-Star gatherings,
Homecoming Weekend 1989 offered something
for everyone. Clockwise from above, Dr.
Pendleton S. Tompkins, ’27, addresses ‘“‘An Open
Forum on Education, Careers, and Family Life’’;
John W. Robinson IV, ’72, vice president of the
Alumni Board of Directors, chats with Walter L.
Hannah, ’50, a member of the Law Council, dur-
ing a breakfast meeting between the two groups;
Five-Star Generals gather in front of the Chapel;
William B. Hoofstitler, ’36, speaks with a friend
during a reception; pianist Robert A. Vienneau,
"87, "90L, provides entertainment at a banquet
honoring the Five-Star Generals; the University
Chorus performs at a Saturday morning concert;
alumni enjoy an outdoor luncheon; Coach Gary
R. Fallon provides encouragement from the
sidelines; Warren H. Edwards, ’39, Wilbert T.
Shafer, ’°39, and other Five-Star Generals
reminisce about old times.

More than 300 alumni
representing at least 20 different
classes in Washington and Lee’s
history ‘‘came home’’ to Lex-
ington during an unseasonably
warm, sunny weekend this fall.

The annual Homecoming
event truly spanned the genera-
tions, bringing together the Five-
Star Generals, who graduated
from the University 50 years ago
or more, and members of the
classes of 1986, ’87, ’88, and ’89,
who gathered for a special
**cluster reunion.’’

In addition to those activities,
Washington and Lee’s Office of
Career Development and Place-
ment sponsored a workshop for
participants in the Alumni
Career Assistance Program.
Seventeen of the University’s 86
alumni chapters were rep-
resented at the two-day
conference.

The Homecoming weekend
officially began at noon Friday,
when Richard A. Epstein, James
Parker Hall professor at the
University of Chicago law
school, delivered the annual
John Randolph Tucker Lecture.
His speech was titled ‘‘Race
Regulations, Economic Liber-
ties, and the Police Power.’’

Later that afternoon, Five-
Star Generals and W&L under-
graduates met together for a
forum on education, careers,
and family life.

Another panel discussion, this
one on Saturday morning, ex-
amined the admissions process at
selective colleges. Participating
in that panel were William M.
Hartog III, dean of admissions
and financial aid at W&L, and
Edward O. Henneman, associate
dean and former director of ad-
missions for the School of Law.

On Saturday afternoon, a
large crowd assembled at Wilson
Field for the annual Homecom-
ing football game, where the
Generals defeated the Maryville
College Scots by a score of
26-10. At halftime, W&L senior
Dana D. Stiles of Chattanooga
was crowned Homecoming
Queen.

Other highlights of the
weekend were various athletic
events, an outdoor luncheon and
reception, a concert featuring the
University’s student choral
ensembles, and the biannual
meetings of the Alumni Associa-
tion Board of Directors and the
Law Council.

 

 

 

24

W&L

 

5

J
om

ee
4
7

ia teed

eee

; re *y
<i 38

Jom

 

 

Record number of family members attend Parents’ Weekend

For the first time in recent
memory, there was no rain dur-
ing Washington and Lee’s
Parents’ Weekend.

It was a good thing, too, since
a record number of people—
close to 1,700 mothers, fathers,
and other relatives of W&L
undergraduates and law
students—attended the event,
which was held on a gloriously
sunny weekend in late October.

All in all, members of 800
families—representing about
half the undergraduate student
body—traveled from as far away
as California to visit their sons
and daughters and to see the
campus.

The schedule seemed unusual-
ly full this year, with panel
discussions and seminars, a
choral and instrumental concert,
several athletic events, and a
theatrical performance. That left
ample time, though, for infor-
mal conversations with faculty
members—and for impromptu
excursions to Goshen Pass and
the Blue Ridge Parkway to en-
joy the lingering fall foliage.

On Saturday morning, the
family members assembled in
Lee Chapel to hear President
John D. Wilson’s traditional ad-
dress to parents.

**‘We at Washington and Lee
have an obligation,’’ Wilson told
the parents, ‘‘to create an
academic environment of the
first rank, where scholarly vir-
tues are given free rein, where
students can learn about objec-
tivity, disinterestedness, pa-
tience, the difficulty of master-
ing something complex, as well
as the substantive experiences
represented by the _ great
disciplines in the liberal arts and
sciences, so they can go on to
make a contribution to the
world.

**And we must also,’’ he con-
tinued, ‘‘in creating this environ-
ment, give them the freedom in
which to make choices and to
make mistakes and to learn to
live with the consequences of
making mistakes.”’

26 W&L

et
Sis,

In addition to the other
weekend activities, the Minority
Student Association sponsored a
number of special events for

Ry

‘

 

OY? xin.

parents, including a reception at
the Chavis House, the minority
student center, and a banquet at
which Derrick W. Freeman, ’86,

 

A variety of activities entertained
the 1,700 family members who at-
tended Parents’ Weekend this
fall. Above, Yvonne Jackson and
her son, D. Scott Jackson, ’90, of
Gambrills, Md., speak with Der-
rick W. Freeman, °86, during an
open house sponsored by the
Minority Student Association;
Peer Soderberg, ’92, leads the
Sigma Phi Epsilon intramural
team in a halftime tug-of-war
contest; and families spread
across the Front Lawn during a
pre-football luncheon.

"at
aa

a vice president with Drexel
Burnham Lambert in New York
City and first president of the
MSA, was the guest speaker.

mm

 

 

 

Fourth sorority
colonizes on campus

Delta Gamma, a national
sorority, has been invited to
establish a chapter at Wash-
ington and Lee.

When it holds Rush in
January, Delta Gamma will
become the University’s fourth
sorority. Chi Omega, Kappa
Alpha Theta, and Kappa Kappa
Gamma established chapters on
the campus a year ago.

The extension committee of
the University’s Panhellenic
Council invited Delta Gamma to
colonize on the campus in
September, after the committee
heard presentations from both
Delta Gamma and Pi Beta Phi.

The first three sororities were
permitted to establish chapters at
Washington and Lee after a
survey indicated that 120
undergraduate women were in-
terested in joining Greek
organizations. During Rush ac-
tivities, however, more than 250
women pledged to the three
sororities.

‘‘More women than we had
originally thought were in-
terested in joining sororities,”’
explains Julia S. Cline, office
manager in W&L’s news and
publications offices and a
member of the extension
committee.

‘‘That made the existing
sororities too large, so we decid-

 

ed to add a fourth.’’

When an informal Rush was
held this fall, an additional 25
upperclass women students join-
ed sororities. Currently 61 per-
cent of all upperclass women
students at Washington and
Lee—240 altogether—are af-
filiated with the Greek system.

All four sororities will hold
formal Rush in January.

Meanwhile, the University is
investigating various options for
meeting the sororities’ needs for
housing and meeting space.

**First, we need to look at
possibilities for the short term,”’
says Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins,
’°68, associate dean of students
for Greek affairs. ‘‘That may
mean setting aside an area in one
of our residence halls where
some sorority members could
live. It may mean designating an
area on the campus where they
can have more attractive and
suitable meeting space and office
space.

**Once we’ve met those needs,
we will have to begin thinking
about the future and come up
with a long-term proposal,”’
Atkins continues. ‘‘The Univer-
sity is absolutely committed to
helping the sororities become a
more integral part of campus
life.”’

a

William Hoffman, ’53, the author of nine novels and numerous short
stories, speaks to a W&L English class during an October visit to the
campus. Hoffman’s appearance was sponsored by the Glasgow Endow-
ment, which was established in 1960 “to promote the art of expression

by pen and tongue.”

 

Planning the fraternity renaissance are, from left, David Oakland of the
architectural firm overseeing the project; Atkins; and Paul Murphy, ’49.

Fraternity renaissance moves ahead

Plans are proceeding for the
upcoming renovation of five
Washington and Lee fraternity
houses.

The blueprints for Pi Kappa
Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Nu, and
Phi Kappa Sigma were examin-
ed and recommended for ap-
proval by the Fraternity
Renaissance Steering Committee
this fall. If there are no signifi-
cant delays and all proposals are
in accordance with city zoning
regulations, work on the first
house may begin as early as this
spring.

Meanwhile, six other fra-
ternities—Kappa Sigma, Lamb-
da Chi Alpha, Sigma Chi, Phi
Kappa Psi, Pi Kappa Phi, and
Delta Tau Delta—have been ap-
proved to participate in the
Fraternity Renaissance Program.

The application of a seventh
fraternity—Phi Delta Theta—
has been returned until the
fraternity complies with the
University’s ‘‘Standards for Fra-
ternities.”’

The fraternity has been on
probation since September after
its house was left in ‘‘unaccep-
table’’ condition at the end of
the 1988-89 academic year, ac-
cording to Leroy C. (Buddy)
Atkins, ’68, associate dean of
students for Greek affairs.

When the house was inspected
last June, Atkins says, many
windows were broken, fixtures
had been damaged, and a
number of doors had been
kicked in.

According to the terms of the
probation, the fraternity is
limited to 15 new members for
the year; it may hold only four

parties each month; the grade-
point average of its members
must rise at least one place each
term in relation to other frater-
nities; and it must develop some
sort of community service

project.

The fraternity has also been
required by its house corporation
to hire a non-student resident
manager. In September, Mata
McGuire, a former cook at Zeta
Beta Tau and Sigma Chi, mov-
ed into the fraternity as
housemother.

Phi Delt becomes only the sec-
ond Washington and Lee frater-
nity with a non-student resident
manager. The other is Phi Gam-
ma Delta.

Under the terms of the Frater-
nity Renaissance Program, all
Washington and Lee fraternities
will eventually be required to
have a non-student manager liv-
ing in their houses.

Meanwhile, for the first time
in several years, freshmen who
belong to fraternities received
better midterm grades than did
their counterparts who do not
belong to fraternities.

The average midterm GPA for
fraternity freshmen was 2.584, as
compared to the average for in-
dependent male students, which
was 2.456.

**T think this shows that frater-
nities can have a positive impact
on students’ academic perfor-
mance,’’ Atkins says.

During fall Rush activities,
223 freshmen pledged frater-
nities. Currently 80 percent of
Washington and Lee’s male
undergraduates are affiliated
with Greek organizations.

 

W&L 27

 

 

 

 

Class agents, Hall of Fame participants assemble for gala weekend

More than 40 Annual Fund
volunteers and an outstanding
group of former Washington
and Lee athletes and their
families braved the winds of
Hurricane Hugo to travel to Lex-
ington for two special events in
late September.

Although the Alumni Associa-
tion’s Athletic Hall of Fame
Weekend and Class Agents
Weekend were held concurrent-
ly for the first time in the Univer-
sity’s history, for a while it seem-
ed as if neither event would come
off. Early weather predictions
placed Lexington squarely in
Hugo’s path, and strong winds
in Charlotte wreaked havoc with
airline schedules. Fortunately,
however, the storm veered to the
west, and after some powerful
gusts subsided late Friday, Satur-
day dawned clear and sunny.

The weekend began with a
gala banquet Friday evening,
when five of the University’s
greatest sports figures became
the second group to be inducted
into the Athletic Hall of Fame.
They were Ernest J. (Skip)
Lichtfuss Jr., °’74, the late
Richard A. (Cap’n Dick) Smith,
’13, Gilbert Bocetti Jr., ’52,
°54L, Norman P. Iler, ’37, and
Dominick A. Flora, ’58.

The inductees were also
recognized the following day
with a halftime ceremony during
the Generals’ football game with
Centre.

Meanwhile, the class agents
attended seminars and panel
discussions to learn about the
state of the University and to
plan for the upcoming Annual
Fund year.

*‘Our primary emphasis was
understanding the importance of
what the Annual Fund means to
every student,’’ says Mason T.

New, 62, of Richmond, chair-
man of the 1989-90 Annual
Fund. ‘‘The dollars are impor-
tant, because the University
makes a leap of faith every year:
They count on the Annual Fund
to meet its goal so they can
balance their budget.

**But we’re very interested in
alumni participation percentage,
too. Every gift counts. We
realize that for younger alumni,
even a gift of $25 may be a
stretch, but we need their par-
ticipation.”’

Upper left, the newest members of the Hall of Fame (seated) pose with
the friends who officially presented them for induction (standing). They
are, from left, Richard W. Smith, ’41, ’43L, accepting on behalf of his
late father, Cap’n Dick Smith (A. Lea Booth, ’40); Norm Iler (Fielden
Woodward, ’37, ’°39L); Dom Flora (Roanoke Times & World-News
sportswriter Bill Brill); Skip Lichtfuss (Sam Englehart, ’73); and Gil
Bocetti (former W&L football coach George Barclay). Upper right, ller
accepts the honor of induction. Lower right, Howard C. Packett, class
agent for the class of ’58, speaks with Reno S. Harp III, class agent for
the class of ’56L. Lower left, Bocetti remembers his playing days.

 

ican oo

oly 8 ke. ce eS
; ae
. ,

eo
- -

ye
: +

 

 

 

28 W&L

 

 

 

—

Hartog named dean of admissions
and financial aid

 

Hartog

William M. Hartog III, direc-
tor of admissions at Washington
and Lee, has been named dean
of admissions and financial aid.

In his new position, Hartog
will continue to supervise the
undergraduate admissions and
financial aid programs at W&L.
He will also act in an advisory
capacity for other University of-
fices directly involved with pro-
spective Washington and Lee
students.

‘*This appointment recognizes
Mr. Hartog’s outstanding service
to the University,’’ said Presi-
dent John D. Wilson in an-
nouncing the new position.

**In addition, Mr. Hartog’s
expertise in admissions will now

be available to other University
offices that come in contact with
potential Washington and Lee
students. I fully expect his service
to the University will continue to
widen in the months and years
ahead.”’

Hartog came to Washington
and Lee as director of admis-
sions in 1978. Prior to that, he
was director and dean of admis-
sions at Rollins College in
Winter Park, Fla. He holds both
bachelor’s and master’s degrees
from Rollins.

He is a member and past presi-
dent of the Southern Association
of College Admissions Coun-
selors and a member of the Na-
tional Association of College
Admissions Counselors. He is
also a member of the Virginia
and American Associations of
Collegiate Registrars and Admis-
sions Officers.

Hartog served as a trustee of
Virginia Episcopal School in
Lynchburg from 1983 to 1988.
He is a member of the College
Board and was a member of the
Southern Regional Council of
the College Board from 1983 to
1986.

 

Construction on the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts is pro-
ceeding on schedule and is expected to be completed by September
1990. The center will be named for Marguerite and Gerry Lenfest, ’53,
whose gift of $3 million is helping to finance the project.

Pitman, Salerno join admissions staff

Kimberly Patrick Pitman and Julie Salerno, ’89, have joined
Washington and Lee’s undergraduate admissions office as admis-

sions counselors.

Pitman is a 1983 graduate of Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, where she was president of the student body. Prior to joining
the Washington and Lee staff, she worked at Sovran Bank in Rich-
mond and at the Virginia Horse Center in Lexington.

Salerno majored in French at W&L. During her undergraduate
years, she was cochair of the Student Recruitment Committee and
a member of the College Republicans and the Superdance steering

committee.

Washington and Lee finds itself at the top of everyone’s list—again

Washington and Lee achieved
a prominent position in two re-
cent rankings of American col-
leges and universities.

In its special issue titled
‘“*America’s Best Colleges,’’
published in October, U.S. News
& World Report ranked Wash-
ington and Lee as 19th among
the 25 top national liberal arts in-
stitutions in the country.

Swarthmore College was listed
as the top school in the survey,
followed by Amherst, Williams,
Pomona, and Bryn Mawr.

U.S. News based its rankings
on a survey of college presidents
and deans, as well as factors such
as admissions selectivity, reten-
tion figures, and financial
resources.

The last time the magazine
compiled such a ranking, W&L
placed 25th in the national liberal
arts category.

In the same issue of U.S.
News, Washington and Lee was
recognized as being the ‘‘best
buy’”’ among national liberal arts
colleges. W&L’s 1989-90 tuition
figure is $10,100. Swarthmore
and Ambherst, the magazine
noted, charge approximately one
third more for tuition.

Another recent ranking, this
one in USA Today, named
Washington and Lee as one of
the nation’s ‘‘choosiest’’ col-
leges. W&L was 22nd in a list of
52 institutions that accept fewer
than half of their applicants and
whose average freshman SAT

scores are at least 1200.

Washington and Lee accepted
28.9 percent of its applicants last
year. The average SAT score for
the freshman class this fall was
1236.

Topping the USA Today list
were the U.S. military aca-
demies, Harvard and Radcliffe,
and Princeton University.

At Washington and Lee, reac-
tion to the rankings was mixed.

**It is always worthwhile to
have the nation’s attention call-
ed to its outstanding colleges and
universities,’’ said John W.
Elrod, W&L’s vice president for
academic affairs.

**This service is a valuable
asset to students seeking to at-
tend one of the country’s

premiere institutions of higher
education.

‘‘What institutions on these
lists must guard against is believ-
ing that the subjective judgments
and objective data on which
these rankings are based are the
true marks of excellence,’’ he
continued. ‘‘They are not. In the
end the true measure of ex-
cellence is the deep personal
commitment of talented and
skilled teachers to make a
lifelong educational difference in
the minds and lives of their
students, and commitment and
talent are considerably more dif-
ficult to measure and quantify.”’

 

W&L 29

 

 

Mollenhoff

receives
Missouri honor

 

Clark R. Mollenhoff, professor of journalism at Washington
and Lee, was one of six individuals who received the 1989
Missouri Honor Medal for Distinguished Service to Journalism
during the University of Missouri-Columbia’s annual Jour-
nalism Week in November.

Other medalists included Helen Thomas, United Press In-
ternational’s White House correspondent; David Lipman,
managing editor of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch; Mal Goode,
consultant for the National Black Network; Eduardo Ulibarri,
editor-in-chief of La Nacion, a free-press newspaper in Costa
Rica; and Stan Freberg, satirist and innovator of ‘‘humorous’’
advertising. Also receiving an award was ‘‘All Things Con-
sidered,’’ National Public Radio’s evening newsmagazine.

Mollenhoff won a Pulitzer Prize in 1958 for his work as a
Washington correspondent for the Des Moines Register. His
books include The Pentagon (1967), The Man Who Pardoned
Nixon (1976), and The President Who Failed (1980). He joined
the Washington and Lee faculty in 1976.

The Missouri Honor Medals have been presented annually
since 1930 for lifetime accomplishments in journalism. They
are awarded by Missouri University’s School of Journalism, the
world’s first professional journalism school, which was founded
in 1908.

 

 

 

The United States’ health-care system, Herman Melville’s notion

 

 

**In spite of all its problems and short-
comings, I submit that the American
health-care delivery system in its entirety
is absolutely the best care that the world
has ever known. I submit that it is being
delivered by more of the best-trained
physicians in more of the finest facilities
that this world has ever known, and I
challenge anyone to show me any place
in the world that can match those two
qualities. ...

‘*Four million people a day in this
country, on average, seven days a week,
have an interaction with a physician. For-
ty million people have some kind of
hospitalization every year. A billion
prescriptions are written in this country
every year treating 250 million people.

‘“‘When you have an enterprise this

size, no matter how carefully you control
it and monitor it, with some 540,000 doc-
tors who are actively practicing medicine,
you’re going to have some problems.’’

—Dr. James H. Sammons, ’47, executive vice
president of the American Medical Associa-
tion, speaking on ‘‘U.S. Health Care: A
System Under Siege.’’ Sammons’ Oct. 24 talk
was sponsored by W&L’s Telford Lecture
Series, which was established in 1986 by the
late Robert Lee Telford, ’22.

 

**Ahab, by means of his injury, gets
locked into a sense of mission, and to be
locked into a sense of mission in Moby
Dick is to be locked into the character
mode called by Melville ‘mono-

mianie’ 6:

‘‘When the white whale bites off
Ahab’s leg, it violates his corporal integri-
ty, but at the same time he sees that in-
jury as a revelation, a revelation of a prin-
ciple of inhumanity in the world, a revela-
tion that the world is constituted at bot-
tom as a force enormously more power-
ful than human force but also as utterly
un-human, a force utterly un-considerate
of or un-tender toward human concerns
in the exercise of its power... .

‘It’s really Ahab’s disease in Moby
Dick that he can’t just see events as
events, he can’t see events without seeing
through them to the cosmic principle that
they would be instances of. ‘I have been
hurt and therefore the world is designed
to hurt people like me.’ ”’

 

 

 

30

W&L

 

Wilson named to Hall of Fame

Washington and Lee President John D. Wilson is one
of six former college football players chosen for induction
into the 1989 GTE Academic All-American Hall of Fame.

Wilson, who was a star defensive back for the 1952 na-
tional championship team at Michigan State, won the Big
10’s Medal of Honor and was Michigan State’s first
Academic All-American and first Rhodes scholar. During
his years at Michigan State, he played on teams that had
an overall record of 26-1 in three seasons. He also par-
ticipated in the North-South All-Star game in Miami, Fla.,
in 1952.

The Academic All-America Hall of Fame was establish-
ed in 1988 by GTE and the College Sports Information
Directors of America to honor former college athletes who
have attained high achievement in their professions and
have made substantial contributions to their communities.

 

 

Students emphasize alcohol awareness

Student members of Wash-
ington and Lee’s Health Educa-
tion Committee sponsored a
variety of programs in conjunc-
tion with National Collegiate
Alcohol Awareness Week in
October.

The purpose of the weeklong
emphasis, which was called ‘‘Ab-
solut Awareness,’’ was to en-
courage faculty, students, and
staff to think about responsible
consumption of alcohol.

Highlights of the week
included:

e an address by Michael
Deaver, former assistant to the
president of the United States
and deputy chief of staff at the
White House during the Reagan
administration, who spoke about
his own problems with alcohol
dependency;

* a program on adult
children of alcoholics, given by
a staff member at the Lexington
Treatment Center;

e a showing of the movie
Clean and Sober, starring
Michael Keaton;

e aneffort by W&L faculty
members to mention the subject
of alcohol awareness during their
regular class meetings; and

e a ‘‘Battle of the Bands’’
contest, at which student musical
groups competed for prizes dur-
ing a ‘‘non-alcohol’’ party at the
Student Activities Pavilion.

Nancy Hickam, a senior from

Pulaski, Va., and one of the
coordinators of ‘‘Absolut
Awareness,’’ was pleased with

the event’s success.

**The speakers were excellent,
and I know some students got a
lot out of the lectures,’’ Hickam
said.

**Alcohol abuse is a societal
problem, but the only way we’re
going to do anything about it is
to educate people so they can
help themselves and others.’’

The other coordinators of

'**Absolut Awareness’’ were

seniors Carter Montague of
Gaithersburg, Md., and Del
Clark of McMinnville, Ore., and
sophomores Carol Damewood
of Charleston, W.Va., and Mary
Anstine of Camp Hill, Pa.

 

of ‘monomania,’ and the Supreme Court flag-burning decision

—Richard H. Brodhead, professor and chair-
man of the English department at Yale Univer-
sity, speaking on ‘‘Moby Dick and the Manly
Art of Self-Defense’’ on Sept. 28. Brodhead’s
appearance was sponsored by the Shannon-
Clark Lecture Series, established in 1981 in
memory of Harriet Mabel Fishburn Clark and
Edgar Finley Shannon, former chairman of
W&L’s English department.

 

“*l regard the Supreme Court’s deci-
sion on Texas v. Johnson not only as con-
stitutionally correct, but as very nearly in-
evitable under the First Amendment deci-
sions and doctrine leading up to it. That
is not to say that it was politically pru-
dent or popular, but that is neither here

nor there in the matter of constitutional
decisions.

“Certainly the flag holds a very
special place in American hearts and in
patriotic ritual. We constantly use it in all
sorts of symbolic ways, some of them, in
my view, undignified, vulgar, and
frivolous. Not only do we wave it, fly it
on the Fourth of July, lower it to half-
staff in mourning for prominent figures,
pall the coffins of heroes with the flag.

**On the other hand, we pass it out in
thousands at political conventions, where
it is brandished apparently to suggest that
those who brandish it are more patriotic
than the members of the other party. We
suffer used-car dealers to fly it in sort of
bedspread size over their used-car lots.

**The flag is and long has been not

only a hallowed object but a major item
in our lexicon of symbolic language, and
if we would hardly dream of attempting
to prevent or outlaw many of the popular-
ly approved uses and abuses of the flag
in symbolic speech, however ignoble or
trashy they may be, it is difficult at least
for me to see how flag-burning for pur-
poses of serious expression can be sing]l-
ed out for special condemnation.’’

—Edwin M. Yoder Jr., columnist for the
Washington Post Writers Group, speaking on
‘‘The Supreme Court and Symbolic Speech:
Burning the Flag for Pleasure and Politics’ on
Nov. 6. Yoder’s visit to campus was sponsored
by the Class of 1963 Scholar-in-Residence Pro-
gram, which was established in 1988 on the oc-
casion of the class’s 25th reunion.

 

 

 

 

 

W&L

31

 

 

r

 

W. Austin Bishop of Willow Street, Pa. (center), holds a copy of The

History of the School for Personnel Services, which he recently gave to
the Washington and Lee University Library. With Bishop are Nell Star-
ling, who was administrative assistant to the school’s commandant, and
Norm Lord, a retired W&L faculty member and a former student at the
school. The school operated on the W&L campus from 1942 to 1945
and served as a training center for U.S. Navy and Marine personnel.
Bishop was director of training and operations.

Parents’ Council established

Forty-three individuals whose
sons and daughters are Wash-
ington and Lee students have
formed a Parents’ Fund Com-
mittee to support the Universi-
ty’s fund-raising efforts.

Walter and Myrle Scott of
Memphis, Tenn., are cochairs of
the committee, which held its
first meeting on the campus dur-
ing Parents’ Weekend in
October.

**The Parents’ Fund is a part
of Washington and Lee’s An-
nual Fund, which helps pay for
the University’s everyday op-
erating expenses,’’ says Timothy
G. McMahon, ’87, acting direc-
tor of the Annual Fund.

“Since tuition covers only
about 60 percent of each
Washington and Lee student’s
education, we depend on the ex-
tra support of our parents to
help pay faculty salaries, to heat
and cool the buildings along the
Colonnade, and to buy new
books for the library and new
equipment for our laboratories.”’

Last year, parents of current
and former students gave more
than $137,000 to the Parents’
Fund. This year’s goal is
$150,000. The goal for the entire
Annual Fund is $2.1 million.

The members of the Parents’
Fund Committee are Dr. and

Mrs. William Aden of Jackson,
Miss.; Mr. and Mrs. Allan Arch
of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Champlin of
Louisville, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs.
Frederick De Kuyper of Bal-
timore; Mr. and Mrs. George
Denby of Washington, D.C.;
Mr. and Mrs. James Ferman Jr.
of Tampa, Fla.; Mr. and Mrs.
Jack Foster of Macon, Ga.; Mr.
and Mrs. James Harber Jr. of
Commerce, Ga.; James Hodges
of Baldwin, Md.; Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Jacobs of Richmond; and
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Livingston
of Paducah, Ky.

Other members of the com-
mittee are Dr. and Mrs. Francis
Milligan of Monkton, Md.; Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Mosely of
Atlanta; Dr. and Mrs. James
Myer of La Jolla, Calif.; Mr.
and Mrs. O. L. North of Great
Falls, Va.; Mr. and Mrs.
Howard Persinger Jr. of
Williamson, W.Va.; Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Renneker III of Bir-
mingham, Ala.; Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Salisbury Jr. of
Baltimore; Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Soderberg of Princeton, N.J.;
Mr. and Mrs. William Vennes of
Lexington, Ky.; and Mr. and
Mrs. David Ward Jr. of Tampa,
Fla.

Farrar to become alumni director

James D. Farrar Jr., ’74,
associate director of alumni pro-
grams at Washington and Lee,
will become director of alumni
programs in July 1990.

At that time, Richard B.
Sessoms, who is currently direc-
tor of alumni programs, will
become director of major gifts in
the University’s development
office.

The two personnel changes
were announced this fall by Far-
ris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, vice presi-
dent for University relations.

Sessoms came to Washington
and Lee in 1980 as associate
development director. Three
years later he was named direc-
tor of alumni programs. Prior to

-

at

his service at W&L, he served as
associate director of the Virginia
Foundation for Independent
Colleges and as an officer of the
Colonial Williamsburg Foun-
dation.

Farrar became assistant alum-
ni secretary at W&L in 1986. He
had been director of admissions
at Episcopal High School in
Alexandria, Va.

The University is currently
seeking to fill the position of
assistant director of alumni pro-
grams. Any inquiries about the
post should be directed to James
D. Farrar Jr., Alumni Office,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington VA 24450. They must
be received by Feb. 16, 1990.

 

Robert Shaw, music director emeritus and conductor laureate of the
Atlanta Symphony and Chorus, and Gordon P. Spice, professor of
music at W&L, examine a program from the 1942 Fred Waring glee
club contest at which both Shaw and the W&L Glee Club were
present. Shaw is the stepfather of W&L junior Alex Hitz.

Young takes post at East Tennessee State

W. Grafton Young, who has served as assistant director of ad-
missions and coordinator of minority recruiting at Washington and
Lee since 1987, has left W&L to take a position as assistant basket-
ball coach at East Tennessee State University.

Young first came to Washington and Lee in 1985 as an assistant
basketball coach. During his tenure in W&L’s admissions office,
minority applications experienced an 84 percent increase, from 43
in 1987 to 79 in 1989.

According to William M. Hartog III, dean of admissions and
financial aid, the University is currently seeking a successor for
Young.

 

32.  W&L

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Fancy Dress set for March 9

Plans are already underway for the 83rd annual Fancy Dress Ball, which will
| be held Friday, March 9, at 9 p.m. in Washington and Lee’s Warner Center.

The Fancy Dress weekend will actually begin a day earlier, on Thursday,
March 8, with a concert and dance at the Student Activities Pavilion. On Fri-
day from 7 to 9 p.m., a reception for returning alumni will be held at the
Alumni House.

To encourage alumni attendance at the ball, the Student Activities Board
has made arrangements to reserve rooms at area motels. Alumni may call
one of the motels listed below and ask to reserve a ‘‘Fancy Dress Block
Room.’’ These rooms will be released two weeks prior to the ball, so
reservations should be made as soon as possible to ensure accom- ~—
modations.

Tickets for the ball itself are $40 per couple and can be obtained
from the Student Activities Board, University Center, Washington
and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.
For additional information, contact Alex Hitz, Fancy Dress Chairman, Stu-
dent Activities Board, (703) 463-8585.

Lodging
All numbers are (703) area code.

 
 
  
   
 
         
  

fe ye “s
eee ee
ar
Pe .

 

Ramada Inn
Howard Johnson

 

463-6666
463-9181

463-9131
463-7351

Days Inn
Holiday Inn

Comfort Inn
Keydet-General

463-7311
463-2143

 

 

 

The Battle of Gettysburg
By Neil Johnson, ’76
(Macmillan Publishing Co.)

In July of 1988, 125 years after the Bat-
tle of Gettysburg, 14,000 people gathered
to reenact one of the bloodiest conflicts in
American history. Photojournalist Neil
Johnson was there as well, to observe the
reenactment and to capture it on film.

More than 60 of Johnson’s black-and-
white photographs are contained in this
book, which also includes maps and an ac-
count of the various stages of the actual
battle.

**T like to think that if the Civil War
photographers had used today’s cameras
and films,’’ Johnson writes in the book’s
introduction, ‘‘their photographs of the
battle might have looked like these.’’

The author lives in Shreveport, La., and
teaches at Centenary College. His
photographs have appeared in Louisiana
Life Magazine, Time, and USA Today. He

The Bookshelf

has published two other books—Born to
Run: A Racehorse Grows Up and Step In-
to China.

Socrates on Trial

By Thomas C. Brickhouse, ’69,
and N. D. Smith

(Princeton University Press, Oxford
University Press)

This 337-page hardback, which differs
with virtually every interpretation of the
Apology written in this century, ‘‘should
become the standard work in this area,’’
writes Richard Kraut of the University of
Chicago at Illinois.

In reviewing the work, Kraut says that
““Socrates on Trial stands head and
shoulders over other recent treatments of
Plato’s Apology. ’’

Brickhouse received his master’s and
doctorate degrees in philosophy from
Vanderbilt University. He is a professor of
philosophy at Lynchburg College.

 

Political Stability and Democratic Change:
Energy in Spain’s Transition

By Thomas D. Lancaster, ’75

(Pennsylvania State University Press)

This book, Lancaster’s second, ex-
amines the effects on public policy of
Spain’s peaceful change to democracy. In
particular, Spain’s National Energy Plan
illustrates a situation in which a critical
policy issue permits direct comparison of
decision making across regime change,
from the Franco dictatorship to the present
liberal democracy.

Much of the book’s material is taken
from interviews with labor, government,
party, and business leaders, as well as ex-
haustive field research.

Lancaster is associate professor of
political science at Emory University. He
is coeditor of Politics and Change in Spain,
which was published in 1985.

 

 

W&L

33

 

 

 

The last days of summer and
the first signs of fall weather pro-
duced a flurry of activity among
Washington and Lee alumni
chapters.

During July and August, more
than 20 chapters all across the
country welcomed their newest
members at special parties and
picnics for freshmen and first-
year law students.

Among the chapters sponsor-
ing such functions were South
Carolina Piedmont, Rockbridge,
Blue Ridge, Augusta-Rock-
ingham, San Francisco Bay,
Middle Tennessee, Winston-
Salem, Cumberland Valley,
Houston, Washington, D.C.,
Pittsburgh, Minnesota, West-
chester/Fairfield, Puget Sound,
Kansas City, Mid-South, Long
Island, Delaware, Greensboro,
Upper Potomac, Mobile, Florida
West Coast, Southern Ohio,
Pensacola, Tidewater, and New
England.

The months of late summer
and early fall are always a
perfect time for recreational ac-
tivities, and this year was no ex-
ception. For alumni in Southern

‘Ve ite

Xs

} ‘ 7 v

 

&
‘

   

   

   

oa
onW

>

 

| i
eee fd
<

Above, Walt Hanna, ’S50L, and his wife, Nancy, were among the alumni families in
Greensboro who provided bed and breakfast for JubiLee’s overnight visit. Staying with them
were Janice Ferman, ’91 (left), and Lesee Whitaker, ’91. Below, J. J. Smith, ’60, front left,

Ohio and Houston, softball was
the game of choice, while
members of the Tidewater
chapter got together for a fishing
excursion at Virginia Beach.
Elsewhere, spectator sports
proved to be more popular.
Richmond alumni turned out to
see W&L’s football squad take
on Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland, while the Appalachian
chapter offered its support when

rhe

y
m my Sw i oP xs
o2 \ ; P °
e r st ;
: a
7m 4 » a mee
7 - - -
ae
> ¢
t
’ .

Alumni News

 

the Generals played Emory and
Henry. Further south, members
of the Middle Tennessee, Chat-
tanooga, Atlanta, and Bir-
mingham chapters provided the
cheering section during the
Generals’ contest with Sewanee.

Alumni in New York had their
minds on athletics, too, when
they attended an off-Broadway
performance of Home Games, a
comedy about a former baseball

player which was written by
W&L drama professor Tom
Ziegler.

Randall P. Bezanson, dean of
W&L’s School of Law, visited
the Southern Ohio, Cleveland,
Chicago, and Pittsburgh chap-
ters during October, while Louis
W. Hodges, professor of religion
at W&L, spoke to alumni in Bir-
mingham and Rick Heatley,
associate dean of students and

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

| Teer

87;

 

wef <
eal 7
SS LB: ONES +

 

New chapter presidents

The following are new chapter —
presidents: | 7

San Diego—J. E. (Jet) Taylor, ’84;
Houston—William H. Clemons, ’77; _
Delaware—John A. Parkins Jr., —

Appalachian—Dr. Richard M. Pen-
ny, *68;
Denver—Thomas J. Brinkman II, ‘

Jacksonville—B. Darby Brower, 85; |
New Orleans—R. Parke Ellis, ’81;
Huntington, W.Va./Tri-State—
J. Grant McGuire, ’84L.

   

    

=
* oa
‘ ‘<a
\ i. ao

vd

 
   
    
  

2

  
 

Oras

     
 

r
a—* -

 

     
 
 
     
 

 

 

Roger Day, ’85 (center), and Jodie Day cheer the Generals to victory over Sewanee.

 

34. W&L

 

 

Alumni News

 

 

director of career development
and placement, visited the Rich-
mond chapter to speak about the
Alumni Career Assistance
Program.

JubiLee, one of Washington
and Lee’s student singing
ensembles, entertained members
of the Eastern North Carolina
and Greensboro chapters during
September gatherings in those
areas.

On the West Coast, members
of the Orange County chapter
attended a wine-tasting party
and a boat cruise of Newport

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Denver.

 

 

Harbor. San Diego alumni en-
joyed their eighth annual sunset
cocktail party in La Jolla, and
members of the San Francisco
Bay chapter were treated to a
concert by pianist Rob Vien-
neau, ’87, ’90L.

Members of the Philadelphia
and Roanoke chapters enjoyed
barbecues with graduates of
other Virginia schools in their
respective cities, while alumni in
Charlotte, Westchester-Fairfield,
Denver, and the Connecticut
River Valley area got together
for receptions.

(Above) Earl T. Jones, ’30, shows his ap-
preciation after a performance by JubiLee
during a meeting of the Eastern North
Carolina chapter; (center) David Perdue,
’*85, Mike Thornton, ’70, ’78L, and Jim
Johnson, ’89, enjoy a buffet after the
Generals’ defeat of Sewanee; (insert) Ran-
dall P. Bezanson, dean of W&L’s School
of Law (left) chats with Charles W. Sydnor
Jr., president of Emory and Henry College,
during halftime of the Generals’ game with
E&H; (below) Fred Sage, ’46, and Dorothy
Sage are in attendance at the reception in

 

W&L 35

 

 

 

Alumni News

 

The 1989 recipients of the Distinguished Alumnus Awards:
J. Hardin Marion, ’55, ’58L, former chairman of the An-
nual Fund; Paul J. B. Murphy, ’49, past president of the
Alumni Fraternity Council; and Robert W. Hilton Jr.,

39, past president of the Southern Ohio Alumni Chapter

Nominations sought
for awards

Each year during spring reunions,
Washington and Lee’s Alumni Association
presents Distinguished Alumnus Awards to in-
dividuals who have made extraordinary
achievements in their personal and vocational
lives.

Among the qualities considered in the selec-
tion process are superlative service to society,
exceptional support of and loyalty to W&L,
outstanding character, and notable success in
a chosen field or profession.

All recipients must have graduated from
W&L at least 10 years ago; may not have re-
ceived an honorary degree from W&L; may not
be an employee of the University in any capaci-
ty; and may not be a current or past member
of the University’s Board of Trustees or a cur-
rent member of the Alumni Board of Directors.

Let us know about a distinguished alumnus
in your community! Complete and return the
form at right.

 

 

Distinguished Alumnus Award
Nornination Form

Nominee’s Name
Class

Address

 

 

City State Zip

Please attach a separate sheet to explain: (1) business or occupa-
tion and title; (2) service io W&L; (3) service to community, state
or nation; (4) professional or business achievement.

Nominated by
Class

Address

 

 

 

Phone

 

Please clip and return to:

Alumni Office
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

36

W&L

 

 

(continued from page 20)

lowed. The government hard-liners
now try to get people to swallow its
new medicine. As a linguist once
said, ‘‘A major language is a dialect
with an army and a navy.”’

umor arose as expected. A
He to disciplined unity kept

the ranks of the demonstra-
tors closed to outsiders and in-
formers as they marched by our gates
with arms locked, banners aloft;
badges were needed to get into the
Square and for a time even through
our main gate. When I congratulated
a student leader on the marshaled
order in the Square, he grinned; they
were astonished themselves.

Little drawings of a bottle ap-
peared on walls: Deng is a surname;
Xiaoping, his given name, is a
homonym for /ittle bottle. The
corked bottle which once had
signified a worthy survivor who kept
bobbing to the top, that little bottle
was now a contemptible piece of
graffiti.

A final example, trench humor
twinkled in the remark of a Chinese
colleague, an old-timer, when he
responded to my enthusiasm over the
restraint of the army as the
demonstration wore on with scarcely
any violence: ‘‘It’s a full moon. The
Chinese army likes to attack when
it’s dark so no one can see what they
do.’’ That insight, along with the
student vow of self-immolation, pro-
vided perspective. I coughed, but
thinking back I do not believe he
changed expression.

ome critics say the demon-
4 strators brought the massacre

on themselves. Point one: If
they’d been reasonable they all would
have left the Square, as many did.
Their argument continues: Two, the
protesters wanted too much too
soon; they were demanding overnight
democracy, a concept they did not
grasp. Three, democracy really fits
only countries where individual life
has more value than it does in the
Orient. Life is cheap there.

I will give here only a short

answer to these three claims. The
participants did not dream the

government would fail to settle ac-
counts eventually; they would pay
for taking a stand. For all their
idealism they had not closed their
eyes. In China those who go along,
toadeaters and sons and daughters
and cousins with guanxi, ‘‘connec-
tions,’’ always get the best jobs and

apartments and assignments overseas.

Those who speak out are silenced,
and the world can only guess their
fate.

This time, however, the world
was stage and audience; this time
their demands and the consequences
did not drop out of sight. Television
and the world press joined the cause.
When the first marches began, some
students wrote their wills. But it was
*‘unthinkable’’ that the People’s
Liberation Army would turn against
the people. A soldier took two vows.
Love the people was the first, and
many in uniform followed it for a
time. One soldier stood on a bridge
near our school and dramatically
stripped off his uniform; a senior
told me her uncle saw it with his
own eyes. The second vow was to
obey orders.

As for extravagant demands, the
students initially asked for only two
things: First, public dialogue with
government leaders over economic
corruption; second, recognition that
the nonviolent demonstrations were
patriotic and legitimate and neither
illegal nor rebellious. An April 26
editorial in the People’s Daily had
reversed the earlier sympathetic posi-
tion toward them; they responded by
demanding the true spirit of the
movement be recognized.

Students and colleagues assured
us the demands were limited. True,
the banners proclaimed freedom and
democracy, but from our perspective
the demonstrators and their sup-
porters in China demanded no broad
changes in the political system.
Before May had passed, however,
Premier Li Peng’s inflexibility led to
cries that he be unhorsed.

The ideals of Communism were
supported, its abuses denounced.
‘We are not against the Party or the
government.’’ I heard that continual-
ly. Cries for the ouster of the
government hard-liners came later.

Exposure of the abuses of power and
position was in place early; on one
dormitory wall at BNU a large poster
listed the family members of officials
and their salaries. Our campus
became famous for its posters. On
June 4 the walls inside the campus
and out on the street were bare.
Everything from the early portrait of
hero Hu Yaobang in the heart of the
campus to the late cartoon outside
the gate of Premier Li looking
simpleminded in a Nazi uniform—all
had vanished.

Life may be cheaper in China,
but not by choice. A missionary who
had been in Shanghai in 1926 quoted
the words of a reformer before his
execution: ‘‘I know what I am dying
for. What are you living for?’’ The
morning of June 4 in the foreign din-
ing room next to our apartment
house, a friend who had seen the
atrocities in the Square showed me a
bullet stained with blood. A worker
had given it to him with the words,
**Tell what we are fighting for.’’

I heard an old China hand repeat
the myth yesterday: The Chinese by
nature are resigned to suffer and
wait; it is senseless to fight because
China survives all. Two days ago a
friend had a better slant: This
Chinese spring helped put the
dancers on the Berlin Wall.

unday the 4th the army broad-
*q cast it would enter the campus

at 3 p.m. We five or six
Westerners still on campus—the
Soviets had now gone too—were
assured the soldiers would not be
after us; we would be safe inside our
Foreign Expert Building. They would
be principally going through the stu-
dent dormitories.

At 1:45 a student who had an ap-
pointment with me to revise his
senior thesis on American literature
showed up in our apartment. I asked
him why in the world he had not
cleared out like his comrades. We
talked back and forth. I suggested
that he run like hell, though not ex-
actly in those words, but he was not
leaving the campus.

It was impossible to doubt his
determination. His words were a

W&L 37

 

 

“There Are Never Any Guarantees’’

When Woody Heath took a study trip to the Orient last sum-
mer, she had been planning on relaxation. Instead, she got
revolution.

Heath, a Washington and Lee senior from Kinston, N.C.,
left the United States late last May with three friends, all students
at the University of North Carolina. They intended to visit Hong
Kong, Japan, Thailand, and China.

Before long, though, they began to have second thoughts
about their itinerary. ‘‘*The mother of one of our friends paged
us at the airport to tell us not to go to China,’’ Heath recalls.
**She said that it was dangerous. But when we got to Hong
Kong, everyone said it was perfectly safe, that we shouldn’t be
afraid to go. Why would they give us visas if there were any
danger?’’

So the foursome stuck to their original idea and arrived in
Beijing on Wednesday, May 31. Everything seemed normal, ex-
cept that troops were garrisoned at the train station. But, Heath
says, ‘‘there was a real feeling of excitement in the city.”’

On Thursday and Friday they visited Tiananmen Square,
which ‘‘had the air of a carnival which was over.’’ Although
the square was still filled with students and tents, ‘‘it was past
its peak,’’ she says. ‘‘We had missed it.’’

So the four were stunned when they returned from visiting
the Great Wall and the Ming Tombs on Saturday evening and
discovered troops and army trucks in the streets. Obviously,
they hadn’t missed all the excitement. They got to their hotel
as quickly as they could and went to sleep, only to wake at 4
a.m. to the sounds of gunfire.

Later that morning, they heard from a friend that up to

2,000 people had been massacred by government troops. It was
clear they needed to think about leaving.

That was more easily said than done, however. On Tues-
day they ventured to the train station, but just as they arrived,
a mob began to storm the station in an effort to flee the city.

‘We were almost trampled,’’ Heath says. ‘‘It was like being
in a dream, when you try to move but can’t. That was just about
the only time I began to think, ‘Maybe we won’t get out of
hére,”..””

They did finally make it into the station, but one train after
another was cancelled. Besides, ‘‘we kept hearing rumors that
they were going to put a lot of students on the train and make
it have an accident. We decided the trains weren’t a good op-
tion.”’

Once again, they changed their plans. They walked to the
Beijing-Toronto Hotel, where Gill and Siri Holland, parents
of one of Heath’s W&L classmates, were staying (‘‘it was
wonderful to see a familiar face,’’ says Heath). After staying
up all night long, listening to machine-gun fire, they left in the
morning for the airport, where they were miraculously able to
obtain plane tickets to Tokyo.

**There was such a feeling of exuberance on the plane,”’ she
remembers. ‘‘We were so happy to be getting out.’’

Six months later, Heath’s Beijing memories are still vivid.
**I’m glad I did it, but after a while I started to feel guilty,
because I knew people at home were worried about me, and
I didn’t like putting them through that.

**T would do it all over again if I knew I would get back
safely. But there are never any guarantees.”’ —A.B.C.

 

A number of Americans were

 

kind of statement of faith, his
fatalism thought through. He spoke
simply: ‘‘I1 want to write a good
paper before I die.’’ Anger, then
grief, ultimately despair in that sim-
ple sequence took possession of
many hearts after the massacre. So
we sat there and straightened out
words for 20 minutes or so; in
retrospect I do not remember
whether it was a very long or a very
short 20 minutes. I do recall being
frightened for his sake, though, par-
ticularly in the area around my
knees. True to the saying, the pros-
pects of his dying more than his
death horrified me.

The exact topic of the thesis pro-
vidence had chosen for him was
cruelly apt for the moment. As faint-
hearted as it might appear, I must
not put it into the record here. In a
general way the future was involved.
Future as a concept in classical

38 W&L

Chinese thought had been the topic
of conversation around the dinner
table one evening, and the conclusion
reached more or less was that the
vocabulary was missing.

The army did not show up at 3,
though after supper it did. A small
party of us was sitting on the third
floor listening to the shortwave
broadcast when an explosion at the
gate below almost blew out the win-
dows. Someone ran to wet towels for
tear gas. I rushed to the window.
People were flying. Well, here they
come. But they never did. Soon the
curious crept back up the street, and
we went downstairs to check. No
army inside the wall yet.

hy don’t you provide us

transportation? The other

embassies have taken care
of their people.’’

gathered in the Hotel Beijing-
Toronto Wednesday, June 7. The
casually dressed embassy represen-
tative was sitting on the floor, back
against the wall but hardly defensive:
‘‘Because the vans that were used
yesterday to collect you after you
refused to come Monday are being
used today to evacuate dependents
from diplomatic housing where they
are under fire.’’ These quotations
only approximate the sentiments ex-
pressed. ‘‘Why don’t you embassy
people help us get the taxi drivers to
lower their rates and take renminbi
[people’s money]? They’re even
charging $75 U.S. to take us to the
airport! Or more!”’

True, the rates had taken a free
market jump, if a car could be found
at all. On ordinary days there had
been lines of taxis, drivers asleep or
reading behind the wheel, talking,

smoking, quarreling. Fear now ad-
justed the supply. At BNU on Mon-
day, after finally bribing a delivery
truck to take her to a hotel near the
airport, one American had asked the
driver to wait while she ran upstairs
for her friends; without thinking, she
left money and passport and bags
and found all her things vanished
with van and frightened driver when
she got downstairs. He later showed
up at the hotel. The army promise to
pay a call had prevailed. There had
been no time to linger.

The embassy representative
paused at the figure of a $75 U.S.
fare to the airport. Then he said in a
level tone, nodding, ‘‘It’s a
bargain.’’ We left. Others may have
been put out, but I thought he’d
made a classic little speech. My wife
says she had never seen her Southern
boy move so fast as at this moment
or when he heard, ‘‘One bag, 10
minutes.’’ They had been our in-
structions on Monday the Sth when
the embassy picked us up.

Our RJR-Nabisco friend helped
us find a car. My clever bride had
ready money with her. A couple of
good-humored cowboys scooted
around barricades and over curbs,
sped by the broken line of parked
army vehicles that stretched block
after block (the friendly army at the
moment), and delivered us to the air-
port around 5 p.m. Travelers in a
hurry stood in lines or raced from
one line to the next. We followed a
tip that led us downstairs and signed
up on a clipboard for one of two
Cathay Pacific evening flights added
for the occasion. The only $1,000 bill
in people’s money I had ever seen
was proffered for special services,
but it was turned down cheerfully
and the elderly man from Taiwan
stayed in line with the rest of us.

Siri believes there was more chaos
than order, and I say more order. A
companion asked permission to roll a
wheelchair victim of the massacre
into the line ahead of us. When the
plane took off at 7:20 p.m. there
were cheers and clapping followed by
free drinks. A few seats were empty.
Many of the foreign teachers and
students still in the city had no cash
or could not find a taxi; some were

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

held back by the rumor the army was
moving on the airport. In Hong
Kong a BBC reporter looking for in-
terviews met our plane, and Chinese
holding photographs asked if anyone
had seen their relatives.

In the harbor the smokestacks of
tugboats were wrapped in black.
**“FAX saves lives’’ read one sign, a
message the world outside under-
stood that had to be explained to us.
We shopped for clothes but had little
taste for gifts from the mainland like
those we had left in the lost apart-
ment in Beijing.

After a week in Japan we dallied
in the Hilton Hawaiian Village in
Honolulu. Outside the armed forces
museum on Waikiki Beach a happy
honeymoon couple in brief bathing
suits bowed and asked us to take
their photograph by the 1930s
Japanese tank on display. Two little
white boys played on the U.S. tanks
while a big native Hawaiian on a

  
 
 

 

double-sized mat slept under a palm
tree. We paid our respects to Pearl
Harbor.

The only news from friends to
date came early in November, a letter
from a student who said he was
wasting his life. The dragnet con-
tinues apace. During the demonstra-
tions discussion groups on democracy
sprang up throughout the country.
The word is that the police are look-
ing for all participants. The anti-
spiritual pollution campaign will be
thorough.

W&L 39

The Generals’ Report

Strange days, indeed.

That would have served well as the
theme for Washington and Lee athletics
this fall. Just when you had a W&L
team figured out, it would make a left
turn and leave you scratching your head
in bewilderment.

But in the end, despite its unpredic-
tability, the fall season was a successful
one for W&L athletics. All but two of
the teams compiled records of .500 or
better, and the two that didn’t finished
their seasons by reaching the semifinals
of their respective conference
tournaments.

It was, to be sure, an odd fall. Take
football, for instance. The Generals
completed the year much as they had
started it—with no more losses than
wins (5). And although W&L ended up
last in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, it was the only ODAC team to
beat eventual conference champion
Randolph-Macon.

And despite the 5-5 record, the W&L
football team was anything but
mediocre in 1989. The Generals set or
tied a staggering 35 school records, had
six players named to the All-ODAC
First Team (no school had more), and
just might have been the best .500 team
anywhere.

In men’s soccer, meanwhile, there
was no question by season’s end that
W&L was the best team in the ODAC.
That outcome wasn’t so certain two
weeks into the season, however, when
the Generals had dropped three straight
one-goal games and seen their record
plummet to 1-4.

A month and 12 games later,
though, W&L had lost just once more
and, in a thrilling display of grit, won
the conference championship with back-
to-back one-goal victories.

The sagas of football and soccer
were just part of the athletic drama that
played out this fall at Washington and
Lee. Other stories included the young
and inexperienced water polo team,
which turned in the third-best season in
school history with a 21-7 record; the
400 W&L

 

“ite,

- al
f/f.

bf 7
ry ;

consistent men’s and women’s cross
country teams, both of which finished
second at the ODAC championships;
and the surprising women’s soccer and
volleyball teams, each of which set the
conference powers-that-be on their ears
by reaching the ODAC tournament
semifinals.

Football

The 1989 season will be remembered
as the one that destroyed the record
book. From fewest total offense yards
allowed in a game (—38, vs. Methodist)
to most passes attempted in a season
(330), the new records attest to a start-
ling performance. And it all began—and
ended—with the arm of senior tri-
captain quarterback Phillip Sampson.

By season’s end, the Houston native
would own 12 W&L passing records.

Quarterback Phillip Sampson scrambles in 10-0 loss to Centre.

by Mike Stachura, ’86

 

His sure-handed favorite target, junior
split end Craig Irons of Dallas, was
equally impressive, catching 75 passes
for 1,010 yards to set two more W&L
records. Together, the tandem became
known as The Texan Connection, and
their yearlong highlight film started with
Game 1.

The Generals struggled early with
traditional first-game opponent Emory
and Henry, giving up 17 first-half points
by way of turnovers. The deficit proved
too much to overcome, but Irons,
Sampson, and friends did what they
could. Sampson completed a school-
record 34 of 46 passes for 301 yards and
Irons caught an amazing 15 of those
throws to put the Generals back into the
game, though Emory & Henry finally
won it 36-25.

The Generals turned things around

the following week, venting their
frustrations on a hapless Methodist
squad, 47-0. In the process, five W&L
single-game defensive records were set
or tied, and Sampson threw for a
school-record four touchdowns. The
Generals stumbled again the next week
and lost 10-0 to Centre, who would go
on to finish the year 8-1.

A week later W&L bounced back,
thrashing Randolph-Macon 33-8 behind
Sampson’s 3ll-yard passing day. The
Yellow Jackets, however, lost only one
more game all season and eventually
won the ODAC title.

The Generals won again the follow-
ing week, thumping Maryville after
Sampson and Irons broke the game
open with a 28-yard scoring pass. But
all hopes of a strong ODAC finish were
crushed the next Saturday at Hampden-
Sydney. The high-powered W&L of-
fense, averaging over 300 yards a game,
could not find its stride that day, and
the Tigers won 17-0.

Again W&L had to recover, and
again that rally came on the road. A
long trip to Sewanee, Tenn., nearly
became an even longer return trip when
the Generals found themselves trailing
17-14 in the final quarter. But Sampson
saved the day once more. This time, he
found senior tight end Bob Martin down

7
i)

Freshman Reid Murphy moves upfield in 1-0 ODAC semifinal win over Hampden-Sydney.

the middle for a 38-yard touchdown to
provide the final margin.

The roller-coaster ride wasn’t yet fin-
ished, though. A pair of heart-breaking
losses followed in the next two weeks.
Sampson rallied W&L for two fourth-
quarter touchdowns against Bridge-
water, but the Generals’ failed two-point
conversion attempt in the final minute
left them on the short side of a 17-16
score.

The next week at Ursinus, Sampson
seemed off-target, and W&L appeared
doomed. Trailing 21-0 early in the sec-
ond quarter, the Generals went to the
bench and brought in senior backup QB
Chris Smythe, who put his name into the
record books, too. Smythe set W&L
records for passing yards (401) and total
offense yards (455) and threw four
touchdown passes in the final three
quarters, but it wasn’t enough to knock
off Ursinus. Irons was stellar in defeat,
making 12 catches for 194 yards.

W&L had one last chance to come
back, however. At Georgetown in the
final week, it was just as it was in the
beginning: Sampson to Irons. Sampson
hit 14 of 24 passes for 199 yards and two
touchdowns. Irons caught eight, in-
cluding another game-breaking
touchdown in the fourth quarter. The
Generals finished with a 20-10 win over

the Hoyas, and a bright view of a 5-5
season.

Sampson, Irons, and Martin were
joined on the All-ODAC first team by
junior offensive Lneman Rob Roberton,
senior tri-captain linebacker Mike Pack,
and senior cornerback Bobby Rimmer.
W&L’s second-team selections included
junior running back Mason Pope,
junior kicker Carter Quayle, sophomore
nose guard Greg Kiehl, and senior
defensive back Bland Warren.

Men’s soccer

It would be hard not to take a bright
view of the men’s soccer season. The
Generals finished the year with a 10-5-2
record, an ODAC championship, and a
six-game winning streak at season’s end.

Head coach Rolf Piranian was
named ODAC Coach of the Year for the
fifth time as he rallied his troops to a
9-1-2 record in their final 12 games. One
secret to the team’s success was the
W&L home field, where the Generals
posted a perfect 8-0-1 record in front of
unusually vocal crowds.

W&L blended old and new into a
fine mixture throughout the season as
seniors like Patrick Brown, Scott Levitt,
Rick Silva, and goalkeeper Jack Pringle
teamed with youngsters like Mike Mit-

 

W&L 41

 

Freshman Ginny Dallam pushes the ball past a Virginia Wesleyan opponent in early-season
action.

chem, Reid Murphy, and defensive
stalwart Greg Williams to make W&L
nearly invincible at times.

The Generals earned the home-field
advantage for the ODAC tournament
with a key tie on the road at Virginia
Wesleyan and then a miraculous victory
at home against Eastern Mennonite that
saw the Generals score twice in the final
three minutes and then win in overtime.

The true heroics were saved for the
end, as Pringle recorded four shutouts
in the final week to pace W&L. It was
the senior’s diving save of a penalty shot
against Hampden-Sydney in the final
five minutes of the ODAC semifinals
that spurred W&L into the champion-
ship game. The Generals scored in the
last six minutes of the title game against
Virginia Wesleyan to secure their second
ODAC title since 1986.

42 W&L

Named to the All-ODAC first team
were Brown and Mitchem, while
Williams, Levitt, and Murphy were
second-team picks.

Women’s soccer

The Generals battled with injuries
and scoring difficulties all season, but
they saved their best play for last.

W&L finished the year with a less-
than-glowing 6-9-3 record, but that was
little reflection on junior goalkeeper
Sherri Brown, who turned in a yeoman-
like season with her eight shutouts and
her second-in-the-league goals-against
average of 1.42.

The Generals struggled through their
ODAC slate to finish in fifth place after
the regular season, setting up a quarter-
final showdown with an always-tough

Roanoke College squad, a team that had
handled W&L by a 3-0 count earlier in
the year.

WA&L, however, had other plans for
the rematch, and when freshman An-
drea Cardamone scored in overtime and
Brown recorded another shutout, the
Generals had their upset.

Sophomore back Nancy Mitchell,
the key to W&L’s defense, was named
to the All-ODAC first team for the sec-
ond year in a row, while senior
Catherine Baillio was chosen for the sec-
ond team.

Water polo

A state championship, a berth in the
Eastern Championships elite eight, and
a 21-7 final record might seem routine
for W&L water polo. But these were
remarkable accomplishments during a
season that head coach Page Remillard
had earlier characterized as a
**rebuilding year.’’

After all, 75 percent of the scorers
on the 1988 squad graduated last June.
But despite their inexperience, the young
Generals squad raced to an 11-0 start,
the best in school history.

Included in that run was a victory in
the state championships that saw
sophomores Alan Herrick and Jay
Smith and junior Tomas Perez named
to the all-state team.

W&L was slowed in the second half
of the season by some fierce competi-
tion, including Southern Water Polo
Conference power Arkansas-Little
Rock, a team of internationals that end-
ed up as the No. 1-ranked team in the
East.

The highlight for the second half
came in the league semifinals, when
senior Randal Pearson scored in the
third overtime to beat rival Richmond
17-16. The win gave the Generals a spot
in the Southern finals, as well as a place
in the eight-team Eastern Champion-
ships. While the Generals finished eighth
at Easterns, they did as well as the more
experienced 1988 squad had, and the
future for W&L water polo looks bright.

Volleyball

In just its second season of ODAC
play, W&L showed great promise for
the years ahead. The Generals finished

with a 9-18 record and a semifinal spot
in the ODAC tournament.

WA&L fell prey to a brutal schedule
that included tough non-conference op-
ponents and featured 11 road trips in 16
game dates. A key five-game victory
over Roanoke in mid-season showed
that W&L might have a chance to fulfill
its preseason goal of finishing among
the top four in the conference.

WA&L suffered a late-season setback
against Emory and Henry that would
force the Generals into the tougher of
the two four-team groups competing for
a semifinal berth at the ODAC
tournament.

But the Generals rallied for a 15-8,
8-15, 15-11 win over E&H in the tour-
nament to earn a spot in the semifinals.
The Generals were led by junior setter
Lisa Jay, who was the second W&L
player in as many years to be named to
the All-ODAC first team. W&L’s top
attacker, sophomore Mena McGowin,
was selected to the All-ODAC second
team.

Cross country

Just as the W&L men’s and women’s
cross country teams improved this year,

 

W&L’s Liz Randol (No. 42) goes for a block as Debbie Grove assists in a win over Southern
Seminary during Parents’ Weekend.

 

 

Winter
Sports
Schedules

Indoor Track

 

Jan. 20 Va. Tech Invitational Away
Jan. 27 Lynchburg Invitational Away.
Feb. 3 VMI Relays Away
Feb. 10 Virginia Tech Relays Away
Feb. 24 ODAC Indoor
Championship Away
Wrestling
Jan. 13 Davidson Triangular Away
Jan. 20 Newport News
Apprentice Away
Jan. 27 WA&L Invitational Home
Feb. 3 Gallaudet Quadrangular Away
Feb. 10 Virginia College
Championships Away
Feb. 14 Longwood Home
Feb. 16-17 Eastern Regionals Away
Mar. 1-3 NCAA III Champs. Away
Swimming
Jan. 10 Shippensburg (W) Home
Jan. 14 Charleston (M&W) Home
Jan. 20 Georgetown (M&W) Home
Jan. 26 Shepherd (M&W) Away
Jan. 27 Gettysburg (M&W) Away
Feb. 3 Radford (M&W) Away
Feb. 10 Mary Wash. (M&W) Away
Feb. 22 Atlantic States
Champs. (M&W) Away
Feb. 23-24 ODAC Champs. (W) Away
Mar. 8-10 NCAA Div. III (W) Away
Mar. 15-17 NCAA Div. III (M) Away
Basketball
Jan. 5-6 W&L/Bank of
Rockbridge Invit. Home
Jan. 9 Bridgewater College Away
Jan. 11 Roanoke College Home
Jan. 13 Virginia Wesleyan Away
Jan. 16 Eastern Mennonite Home
Jan. 18 Randolph-Macon Away
Jan. 20 Queens College Home
Jan. 23 Hampden-Sydney Home
Jan. 25 Emory & Henry Home
Jan. 27 Lynchburg College Away
Jan. 30 Guilford College Away
Feb. 1 Emory & Henry Away
Feb. 3 Virginia Wesleyan Home
Feb. 8 Mary Washington Home
Feb. 10 Roanoke College Away
Feb. 13 Eastern Mennonite Away
Feb. 17 Rhodes College Away
Feb. 20 ODAC Tournament Home
Feb. 22 ODAC Tournament TBA
Feb. 24 ODAC Tournament TBA
Mar. 2-3 NCAA Tournament TBA
W&L 43

 

so, too, did perennial conference powers
Lynchburg (men) and Eastern Men-
nonite (women). W&L was good enough
to finish second in the conference to
both of these squads. It was the best
combined men’s and women’s finish in
the history of W&L cross country and
the best combined finish of any program
in the ODAC.

The W&L men’s team, which ended
the season with a 7-3 record, finished
eighth at the NCAA Division III
South/Southeast Regional, while the
women, who compiled a 5-2 record in
dual meets, came in seventh at regionals.
The leading runners for the men were
senior cocaptain Joe Geitner,
sophomore Charles Edwards, and
freshman Bo Hannah, while the women
were paced by juniors Cecily Tynan and
Shawn Wert, who finished seventh and
eighth, respectively, at the ODAC
championships.

Other sports

In other fall action, the W&L men’s
and women’s tennis teams got some
work in during warm weather and
posted impressive results.

The W&L women’s team won seven
of its eight fall matches, losing only to
perennial Division III national power
Mary Washington. Junior No. | player
Jean Stroman, two-time ODAC Player
of the Year, received a special bid to the
prestigious ITCA National Collegiate
Championships in Hilton Head, S.C.

Stroman’s counterpart on the men’s
team, senior John Morris, had a suc-
cessful fall season following his singles
and doubles Division III national cham-
pionships of last spring. In September,
Morris was honored by Tennis magazine
as a member of the 1989 Rolex Col-
legiate All-Star team. Morris, the only
Division III player named to the team,
was recognized the week of the U.S.
Open at a special luncheon at the West
Side Tennis Club in New York.

Morris didn’t rest on his laurels,
however. The senior from Memphis
went on to take the Flight No. | singles
championship at the W&L Fall Classic,
becoming the first W&L player to win
a singles flight in the history of the
event.

44 W&L

 

 

FALL SPORTS SCOREBOARD

Football (5-5)

Emory and Henry 36, W&L 25
W&L 47, Methodist 0

Centre 10, W&L 0

W&L 33, Randolph-Macon 8
W&L 26, Maryville 10
Hampden-Sydney 17, W&L 0
W&L 21, Sewanee 17
Bridgewater 17, W&L 16
Ursinus 40, W&L 28

W&L 20, Georgetown 10

Men’s Soccer (10-5-2)

WA&L 5, Denison 3

Johns Hopkins 2, W&L 1
Carnegie-Mellon 2, W&L 1
Guilford 2, W&L 1 (OT)

N.C. Wesleyan 4, W&L 2

W&L 3, Shenandoah 0

W&L 4, Roanoke |

W&L 2, Hampden-Sydney 0
W&L 1, Mary Washington | (OT)
Lynchburg 3, W&L 0

WA&L 3, Virginia Wesleyan 3 (OT)
WA&L 3, Eastern Mennonite 2 (OT)
W&L 3, Washington College 2
W&L 2, Randolph-Macon 0

W&L 1, Hampden-Sydney 0*
W&L 1, Virginia Wesleyan 0*
W&L 4, VMI 1

*ODAC Tournament

Women’s Soccer (6-9-3)

W&L 4, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 2
Virginia Wesleyan 2, W&L 1

Liberty 4, W&L 0

W&L 1, Sweet Briar 0

W&L 0, Hollins 0

Randolph-Macon 4, W&L 0

Roanoke 3, W&L 0

W&L 0, N.C. Wesleyan 0

W&L 2, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 0
Md.-Baltimore County 3, W&L 0 (OT)
WA&L 4, Sweet Briar 0

W&L 0, Guilford 0

Lynchburg 2, W&L 0

W&L 3, Hollins 0

Wheeling 4, W&L 0

W&L 1, Roanoke 0 (OT)*
Randolph-Macon (Ashland) 4, W&L 0*
Lynchburg 2, W&L 0*

*ODAC Tournament

Men’s Cross Country (7-3)

Mary Washington 18, W&L 42
W&L 42, Washington College 85
W&L 24, Norfolk State 47

W&L 24, Roanoke 50

Lynchburg 29, W&L 65

Catholic 32, W&L 65

Fourth at Va. State Meet

W&L 15, Bridgewater 50

W&L 15, Emory and Henry 75
W&L 16, Hampden-Sydney 43
W&L 23, Eastern Mennonite 36
Second at ODAC Championships
Eighth at NCAA South/Southeast Regional

Women’s Cross Country (5-2)

Mary Washington 30, W&L 51
W&L 24, Norfolk State 31
W&L 24, Roanoke 51

W&L 22, Lynchburg 39

Third at Va. State Meet

W&L 26, Emory and Henry 43

WA&L 26, Bridgewater 51

Eastern Mennonite 19, W&L 36

Second at ODAC Championships

Seventh at NCAA South-Southeast Regional

Volleyball (9-18)

W&L def. Shepherd 15-5, 15-12

Guilford def. W&L 15-6, 15-9

Bridgewater def. W&L 15-8, 15-6

Averett def. W&L (default)

WA&L def. Lynchburg 13-15, 15-7, 15-12,
17-15

Shenandoah def. W&L 15-11, 15-5

Mary Washington def. W&L 15-7, 15-10

Ferrum def. W&L 15-2, 15-3

Bridgewater def. W&L 15-1, 15-1, 15-13

W&L def. Mary Baldwin 15-12, 15-7, 15-6

Scranton def. W&L 16-14, 15-12

Washington College def. W&L 15-7, 15-7

UNC-Wilmington def. W&L 15-11, 15-11

Gallaudet def. W&L 14-16, 15-10, 15-4

W&L def. Randolph-Macon Woman’s 17-15,
15-3, 15-6

W&L def. Roanoke 4-15, 15-12, 9-15, 16-14,
15-12

W&L def. Catholic 15-5, 15-11

Eastern Mennonite def. W&L 15-10, 15-2,
15-12

W&L def. Hollins 15-12, 14-16, 15-6, 15-2

Guilford def. W&L 15-5, 15-5

Sweet Briar def. W&L 15-4, 15-12, 15-7

Emory and Henry def. W&L 12-15, 15-9,
15-11, 15-7

W&L def. Randolph-Macon Woman’s 15-8,
15-3*

W&L def. Emory and Henry 15-8, 8-15,
15-11*

Eastern Mennonite def. W&L 15-10, 15-13*

Bridgewater def. W&L 15-13, 15-4, 15-4*

Sweet Briar def. W&L 8-15, 15-8, 15-13*

Water Polo (21-7)

W&L 18, Hampden-Sydney 7
W&L 23, Lynchburg 8

W&L 8, Hampden-Sydney 6
W&L 13, Hampden-Sydney 10
W&L 19, Boston College 10
W&L 13, Fordham 3

W&L 8, M.I.T. 6

W&L 10, Villanova 6

W&L 18, Lynchburg 7

W&L 16, Hampden-Sydney 5
W&L 12, Richmond 9

Brown 15, W&L 3

W&L 12, Bucknell 9

Harvard 12, W&L 6

W&L 13, UNC-Wilmington 8
W&L 23, Lynchburg 8

W&L 11, Richmond 9
Arkansas-Little Rock 20, W&L 2
W&L 17, Johns Hopkins 6
WA&L 14, Dayton 8

W&L 14, Johns Hopkins 5
W&L 13, Dayton 11

W&L 19, Lynchburg 8*

W&L 17, Richmond 16 (30T)*
Arkansas-Little Rock 17, W&L 4*
Brown 11, W&L 8x

Slippery Rock 11, W&L 9 (OT)*
Iona 8, W&L Sx

*Southern Championships * Eastern Championships

 

 

H. CAVETT ROBERT, author,

management consultant, and sales
director, was the main speaker at the Sigma Chi
Foundation awards breakfast in late June. Robert
is the author of more than a dozen instructional
recordings on sales, human relations, personal
development, and management.

JOHN H. SHOAF has been reelected

as executive secretary of the Consular
Corps of Houston. The corps consists of 52 foreign
consulates and 21 foreign trade offices. Shoaf also
serves as the honorary consul of the Republic of
Guatemala, a position he has held for the past 10
years.

ROBERT E. SURLES continues full time with his
law firm in Summerville, Ga.

WILLIAM L. HEARTWELL JR.

works part time as regional manager
for the Better Business Bureau of Central Virginia
in Fredericksburg.

WILLIAM G. BARROWS JR. is a
broker with Snare Associates Ltd.,
Real Estate in Dorset, Vt.

Maryland Gov. William Donald

Schaefer has appointed EARLE
PALMER BROWN to the board of regents of the
University of Maryland system. He is chairman
of The Earle Palmer Brown Cos., public relations
and advertising agencies with headquarters in
Bethesda, Md.

DR. LLOYD H. SMITH JR. received the 1989
Abraham Flexner Award for Distinguished Ser-
vice to Medical Education from the Association
of American Medical Colleges. The award
recognizes outstanding individual contributions to

 

medical education. Smith is associate dean, special
projects and admissions, at the University of
California at San Francisco School of Medicine.

DR. WILLIAM W. KITCHIN JR.

has been promoted to professor of
human resources administration at St. Leo Col-
lege in Florida. He is currently teaching at the
Tidewater Virginia Center, Fort Eustis and
Langley Air Force Base.

Former Roanoke Circuit Court Judge
JACK B. COULTER has joined the
new Roanoke law firm of Coulter & Hambrick,
which is headed by his brother, Philip Coulter.

GRAY C. CASTLE was sworn in

Aug. 29 as deputy under secretary in
the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration. He moved from New York City to
Washington, D.C., this summer.

CLAUDE R. HILL JR. became a

member of the Federal Reserve Board
in Richmond in January 1989. Hill currently serves
as president of the Merchants and Miners National
Bank in West Virginia and as chairman of the
board and president of the M&M Financial Corp.
He lives in Fayetteville, W.Va.

DR. H. CHRISTOPHER ALEX-

ANDER was elected to the American
Medical Association’s Council on Medical Service
in June. The council provides information and
submits recommendations to the AMA board of
trustees and house of delegates on issues relating
to social and economic factors influencing medical
care.

GRAY C. CASTLE (See 53).

DUDLEY B. THOMAS has
been named publisher of the
Bridgeport, Conn., Post-
Telegram newspapers. The
Post-Telegram is Connec-
ticut’s third-largest daily and
Sunday newspaper. Thomas
lives in Milford, Conn., with
his wife, Elisabeth.

DR. RUPERT F. CHISHOLM JR.
is director of the Center for Quality
of Working Life and a professor of management
in the graduate programs in public administration
at the Pennsylvania State University at Harrisburg.

DR. RONALD L. GUTBERLET has received the
1989 Mary Gray and William W. Cobey Award
from the University of Maryland Sudden Infant
Death Syndrome Institute. Gutberlet, chief of
pediatrics at Mercy Hospital in Baltimore,
pioneered the use of home monitors for infants
at risk for SIDS. He lives in Cockeysville, Md.

JAMES B. LUNGER is general supervisor of
Waynesboro, Va., Public Schools. He is also presi-
dent of the Waynesboro-East Augusta United
Way.

SMITH W. BAGLEY, president of

the Arca Foundation in Washington,
D.C., has been elected chairman of the board of
regents of the Catholic University of America. He
is also president and director of the Sapelo Island
Research Foundation and the Brenn Foundation;
vice president and trustee of Z. Smith Reynolds
Foundation in Winston-Salem, N.C.; and a former
director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art.

Upon retiring from the Social Securi-

ty Administration after 27 years, A.
EUGENE O’DELL JR. was appointed vice presi-
dent of the United Way of Central Florida. O’ Dell
and his wife, Edie, live in Lakeland, Fla.

ROBERT J. BERGHEL is chairman

of the administrative committee of
the law firm of Fisher & Phillips in Atlanta. The
70-lawyer firm specializes in labor relations law
on behalf of management.

The Westvaco Corp. has promoted STEPHEN P.
DEGENHARDT to manufacturing manager of
the envelope division in Springfield, Mass. He has
been with Westvaco for 27 years—14 years at the
Indianapolis plant and seven with the Chicago
plant. He lives in Suffield, Conn., with his wife,
Gail.

SIMON M. PAINTER JR. grad-

uated from the Thomas M. Cooley
Law School in Lansing, Mich., in September. He
now lives in Staunton, Va.

PHILIP D. SHARP JR. was appointed to the
California Superior Court in August. Most recent-
ly he was a partner with Shifflet, Sharp and
Walters in San Diego.

STANLEY A. WALTON III is practicing with the
law firm of Sayfarth, Shaw, Fairweather &
Geraldson in Chicago. He had been with Winston
and Straun. He and his wife, Karen, have three
children, Katherine, Anne, and Alexander.

W&L 45

 

 

Gifts of Stock
to W&L

When considering a gift to Washington
and Lee University, you should be aware
that highly appreciated assets such as stocks
and bonds serve as ideal gift assets. In fact,
the government encourages gifts of stock by
offering taxpayers two important incentives:
1) an income tax deduction, and 2) capital
gain tax avoidance.

Your income tax deduction is based
upon the current fair market value of the
security and is limited to 30 percent of your
adjusted gross income with a five-year carry
forward option for the unused portion. In-
asmuch as the asset’s capital gain is left un-
taxed, your gift will represent the full market
value of the stock.

In making an outright gift of stock to
W&L, you will receive benefits as illustrated
below:

Amount of gift $10,000
Cost Basis $4,000
Tax Deduction $10,000
Tax Savings @ 33% $3,300
Capital Gain

Tax Savings $1,980
Total Tax Savings $5,280

In order to maximize benefits, you
should consider the advantages of creating
a gift arrangement with W&L that will return
income to you for your lifetime.

Through a carefully planned gift using
appreciated stock you will realize additional
benefits that include: 1) increased income
for life; 2) estate tax savings; and 3) probate
avoidance.

The following illustration of a planned
gift to W&L highlights the benefits you can
expect to receive:

Amount of gift $100,000
Cost Basis $50,000
Donor’s Age 70
Rate of Return 7%
Tax Deduction $47,000
Tax Savings @ 33% $15,500
Capital Gain

Tax Savings $16,500
Total Tax Savings $32,000
Annual Income $7,000

Because your gift ultimately benefits
Washington and Lee University, it is not
subject to estate taxes. And, since the gift
assets are no longer part of your estate, ad-
ditional savings accrue from probate
avoidance.

lf you would like to learn more about
these ways to make gifts to W&L, please
call.

David R. Long
Director of Planned Giving
(703) 463-8425

 

 

46 W&L

SAMUEL D. TANKARD III has

been employed by Norfolk Botanical
Gardens for the past 19 years as a horticulturist.
He lives in Virginia Beach.

JOSEPH R. BURKART has been

named assistant national director for
development and marketing of Boys Clubs of
America in New York City. Prior to joining Boys
Clubs, he was executive vice president for univer-
sity relations at Pace University.

PHILIP D. SHARP JR. (See ’62).

DR. JOHN G. BYERS JR. is a

governor’s appointee to the Ten-
nessee Council on Respiratory Care. He is an assis-
tant clinical professor of medicine at the Quillen-
Dishner School of Medicine. He and his wife,
Arnell, have three children and live in Bristol,
Tenn.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE has returned from a two-
year tour as the resident partner of the London
office of the law firm of Dechert Price and
Rhoads. He now practices in the firm’s
Washington, D.C., office. He and his wife, Tish,
live in Georgetown.

J. WILLIAM F. HOLLI-
_ DAY has been appointed by
South Carolina Gov. Carroll
Campbell to the state’s
agriculture commission.
Holliday is chairman of the
board of Galivants Ferry
(S.C.) Farm Corp., a pro-
ducer of tobacco, corn, soybeans, wheat, and
timber. In May he received a master of arts degree
in culture and creation spirituality from Holy
Names College in Oakland, Calif. He is now a
director of Springbank Dominican Retreat Center
in Kingstree, S.C. Holliday also has a budding
musical career, and during the spring he played
harmonica solos during a recording session with
the California blues band, Jack Rudy and the
Blues Voodoos.

STANLEY A. WALTON III (See ’62).

 

THOMAS R. KELSEY is a partner

in the Houston law firm of Hutch-
eson & Grundy, where he practices mainly real
estate and banking law. He is also president of the
Chinquapin School, which caters to bright, under-
privileged children from Houston. Kelsey and his
wife have three children, William, Margaret, and
Mavis.

Recent assignments have taken DR. PHILLIP D.
MOLLERE out of the laboratory and into China
and the Soviet Union. He is still working as assis-
tant director of research and development for
Freeport-McMoRan. He and his wife, Babs, and
three children live in New Orleans.

THE REV. THOMAS J. HOLDEN

III has joined the staff of Sunnyside
Presbyterian Retirement Community in Harrison-
burg, Va., as development officer. He had served
for 11 years as a minister at the Berryville and
Stone’s Chapel Presbyterian Churches in Clarke
County, Va. He and his wife, Virginia, have two
children.

ALAN T. RAINS JR. was appointed executive
director of Future Homemakers of America Inc.

in July. He had been interim executive director
since November 1988. His past professional ex-
perience includes serving as president and chief
operating officer of the National Association of
OTC Companies. Rains and his wife, Luisa, and
their two children live in Alexandria, Va.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER is assistant city
editor of the Danville (Va.) Register & Bee. He
is helping to manage the merger of the morning
and afternoon newspapers into one seven-day-a-
week paper.

CHARLES M. BERGER has been

promoted to senior vice president of
NCNB Corp. He is assistant general counsel for
the corporation. Previously he was senior counsel
and assistant secretary for AMP Inc. of Har-
risburg, Pa. NCNB is a Charlotte-based holding
company with full-service banks in seven Southern
states. Berger lives in Charlotte.

Harken International, a subsidiary of

Harken Energy Corp., has named
LEONARD A. BLANCHARD vice president of
human resources. Blanchard had been a marketing
consultant with Southland Corp. Harken Energy
Corp. is an independent oil and gas producer and
distributor. He lives in Dallas.

THEODORE J. DUNCAN III is a financial con-
sultant with Merrill Lynch in Oklahoma City. He
and his wife, Sharon, have three children, Sarah,
Judson, and Michael.

THE REV. STEPHEN J. WALLER is the new
rector of the Church of St. Thomas the Apostle
in Dallas.

DR. W. JOHN BAYARD is a

diagnostic radiologist at Richland
Memorial Hospital. He and his wife, Ruth, and
their 7-year-old daughter, Amanda, live in Co-
lumbia, S.C.

THE REV. PHILIP D. DOUGLASS, assistant
professor of practical theology at Covenant
Theological Seminary in St. Louis, has been ap-
pointed director of church planting for the
Presbyterian Church in America for 14
Midwestern states. He recently planted his sixth
church since graduating from Princeton
Theological Seminary and being ordained as a
pastor 15 years ago. He and his wife, Rebecca,
have four children and live on the edge of the
Covenant Seminary campus.

JEFFREY B. GROSSMAN is director of
marketing spending analysis for Joseph E.
Seagram & Sons in New York City.

An article by GEORGE W. HAMLIN was recently
published in Aviation Weekly & Space
Technology. The article addressed the problem of
air traffic congestion in the United States. Hamlin
has been involved in business development and
planning in the aerospace engineering business in
Marietta, Ga., for the past eight years. He has also
held positions with Texas International and Trans
World Airlines.

LAWRENCE E. HONIG has been elected to the
board of directors of Angelica Corp. in St. Louis.
He is a vice chairman of the May Department
Stores and is responsible for a group of seven of
May’s operating companies.

DAVID R. KATZ is senior researcher at the
University of Wisconsin Communications

Development Center. He specializes in interactive
video, desktop video, computer graphics
technology, and other new media technologies.

In addition to working as senior trial attorney for
the Philadelphia office of Home Insurance Co.,
ALAN P. MARIAN plays in several bar bands
with his wife, Donna. They are now preparing a
studio recording of original music.

JUDGE MOSBY G. PERROW III was sworn in
by JUDGE ALEXANDER M. HARMAN JR.,
’44L, on June 30, 1989, as a circuit court judge
in the 24th Judicial District. Perrow joins other
W&L graduates JUDGE RAYMOND CUNDIFF,
°33L, and JUDGE JAMES FARMER, ’65L, in
the Lynchburg, Va., area.

ROBERT H. YEVICH is executive vice president
and director of Tucker Anthony Inc. He is head
of retail sales in charge of 27 branch offices. He
lives with his wife and two children in Westfield,
N.J.

RICHARD J. MURRAY is the

sports information director at the
University of Virginia. He and his wife, Sara, live
in Charlottesville with their two sons, Patrick and
Colin.

DR. R. BALFOUR SARTOR has been promoted
to the rank of associate professor of medicine,
microbiology and immunology, at the University
of North Carolina School of Medicine. His work
on the pathogenesis of Crohn’s disease is funded
by a grant from the National Institutes of Health.
He and his wife, Em, and their two children, Emily
and Ryan, live in Chapel Hill.

W. G. CRIS CLORE is president of

Goshen Land Co. Inc., a residential
land development firm doing business in Mont-
gomery County, Md.

BRIAN S. GREIG was named president of the
board of the Laguna Gloria Art Museum in
Austin, Texas, in September. Greig is a partner
in the Austin office of the law firm Fulbright &
Jaworski.

   

' After spending 17 years with
_ his family’s business of retail
consumer electronics, J.
CHARLES LEE has joined
the Anderson, S.C., office of
Wheat, First Securities as an
investment broker. He is a
member of the board of the
Anderson Rotary Club and a former board
member of the South Carolina Merchants
Association.

The former chief counsel of the

Republican National Committee, E.
MARSHALL BRADEN, has joined the national
law firm of Baker & Hostetler as a partner. Braden
has lectured extensively on legislative and election
law topics and played a significant role in the
founding of the National Republican Lawyers
Association.

KEVIN J. COPPERSMITH is a
principal geologist with Geomatrix
Consultants in San Francisco.

R. LEIGH FRACKELTON JR. has received his
certificate as a certified public accountant. He is
an assistant professor of business at Mary

 

 

Price Davis, ’36, Finds a Harvest of Hope

 

Gee:
Pee ae ae

+
“cee .

Price M. Davis Jr., ’36 (right), is recognized for his years of service to Second Harvesters of
Wisconsin, which distributes food to the needy of the state. Davis received the ‘‘Excellence in
Food Banking’’ Award at Second Harvest’s annual convention held in June in New Orleans.
Pictured with Davis is Philip Warth, chief executive officer of Second Harvest National Food
Bank Network, and television news correspondent Charles Kuralt, who served as keynote speaker

for the awards luncheon.

Price M. Davis Jr., ’36, spends his
days asking for the food that no one else
wants.

Such as cans of vegetables that have
a dent in one side. Or boxes of cereal that
have the wrong information printed on
the outside. Or the ends of ears of corn
that just won’t fit into the package.

Such food can’t be sold. But it can be
used. That’s where Davis comes in.

Davis is food solicitor for Second
Harvesters of Wisconsin, a food bank
that serves more than 800 charities in the
state, including the Red Cross and the
Salvation Army. Davis and some fellow
Rotarians in the Milwaukee area helped
start the food bank back in 1981. Since
that time, he has helped solicit some 35
million pounds of food from producers
and retailers, food which is then
distributed to the needy of Wisconsin.

**It’s estimated that 20 percent of the
food produced each year is wasted,’’ ex-
plains Gwen McLean, general manager of
the food bank.

**Some of it has to be, of course, such
as the food we leave on our plates. But
some of it is merely cosmetic—the sorts
of things we pass over on the grocery

store shelves. Before Second Harvesters
started, that food just ended up in the
landfill.”’

When the food bank was established,
Davis had just retired as director and sales
manager of Shadbolt and Boyd Co. in
Milwaukee. So he volunteered to serve as
the bank’s first president. After his sec-
ond one-year term expired, he stayed on
with the organization, and these days he
devotes his full time to Second
Harvesters, soliciting an estimated
$55,000 worth of food every day.

“It’s been a very rewarding ex-
perience,’’ says Davis. ‘‘This is a
marvelous organization, and I’ve gotten
a lot out of working with it.’’

In recognition of his years of service,
Second Harvesters presented Davis with
its ‘‘Excellence in Food Banking’’ award
at the second annual convention held last
June in New Orleans.

**Price is very good at this role,
because he’s seen as a peer with the CEOs
he’s talking to,’’ believes McLean. ‘‘It has
almost become a second career for him.

‘*This is an outstanding example of
how someone can turn his retirement
years into something meaningful.”’

 

 

W&L 47

Washington College and an attorney in the law
firm of Massey and Frackelton in Fredericksburg,
Va.

F

 

LAWRENCE H. FRAMME

III has been elected chairman

of the State Board for Com-

. munity Colleges in Virginia

fa for 1989-90. The board is the

aod governing body for the

“ Virginia community college

r,s system and its 23 communi-

ty colleges. Framme is a principal in the Richmond

law firm of Mezzullo, McCandlish, and Framme.

DR. FRED W. FRICK of Boca Raton, Fla., will

be supervising the first random drug testing pro-

gram for the Women’s International Tennis

Association. Frick will be the only person to know

the results when 20 percent of the women’s tour

players this year are tested for anabolic steroids,
masking agents, and cocaine.

J. TIMOTHY KEARNEY is on probation from

trespassing on Malmstrom Air Force Base to pro-

test nuclear missiles. He lives in Philadelphia.

In May JAMES N. OVERTON and

a partner sold Southeast Electronics,
a supplier of electronic parts and professional
video equipment. Overton is now the Jacksonville,
Fla., branch manager for Midwest Commu-
nications.

BENJAMIN M. SHERMAN has been named
assistant director of athletics for marketing and
media relations at the University of Delaware.

E. MARSHALL BRADEN (See ’73).

DAVID W. DENNY has taken a newly created
marketing position in the environmental services
division of Westinghouse Electronics Corp. He is
the manager of national accounts for asbestos
services.

DANIEL E. DRENNEN II and a partner have
formed the law firm of Wood Drennen Associates
Inc. in Birmingham, Ala. Drennen holds a law
degree from the Cumberland School of Law and
a master’s degree in taxation law from Emory
University.

MARK D. WILFORD, his wife, Linda, and their
4-year-old, Jeremy, have moved to Miami, where
Wilford is claims supervisor with Physicians Pro-
tective Trust Fund, a self-insured medical malprac-
tice company located in Coral Gables.

ROBERT M. CHIAVIELLO JR.

joined the law firm of Baker, Mills
& Glast of Dallas at the beginning of 1989. He had
been with the law firm of Pennie & Edmonds in
New York City.

ELIZABETH TONI GUARINO has been pro-
moted to senior food and drug counsel for Kraft
General Foods. She lives and works in Glenview,
Ill.

GARY K. HALEY was recently named operations
manager of Caskie Paper Co. in Richmond. He
is responsible for the operation of all six Caskie
Paper locations. Caskie Paper is a distribution
group owned by International Paper Co.

DR. I. L. (TRIP) WORNOM and his family have
moved to Richmond, where he has begun his career

48 W&L

 

in plastic surgery as an assistant professor at the
Medical College of Virginia.

ARTHUR A. BIRNEY JR. is work-

ing for the Washington Brick and
Terra Cotta Co., a land management and develop-
ment company in Washington, D.C. He is present-
ly working on plans for a resort and 27-hole golf
course to be built near Queenstown, Md.

After resigning as director of Chase Investment
Bank in New York, where he had worked for nine
years, STEPHEN J. MARZO has joined Salomon
Bros. as Asia Pacific treasurer for Phibro Energy,
located in Singapore.

ROBERT B. McMICHAEL has joined Harrison,
Star, Weiner & Beitler, a medical advertising agen-
cy in New York City, as a copy supervisor. He and
his wife, Caroline, have a daughter, Emily Kate.

WILLIAM F. BERNART IV is a
manufacturing specialist with Unisys
Corp. He and his wife, Cindi, live in Charlotte.

DR. JOHN S. VOLK received a doctor of
osteopathy degree from the Texas College of
Osteopathic Medicine in May. Following a three-
year family medicine residency at Methodist
Hospitals of Dallas, he plans to open a family
practice in the Dallas/Fort Worth area. He and
his wife, Judi, have a 6-month-old son, John
Brady.

GOETZ B. EATON, a senior tax
consultant at Digital Corp., has been
named a trustee of the Boston Symphony.

Following the completion of the 3rd Company
Command in satellite communications, MARK E.
GINEVAN went back to school and received his
master’s degree in command control and com-
munications in March. He was selected from
below-zone for major and is currently assigned to
the Joint Tactical Command, Control, and Com-
munications in Reston, Va.

ROBERT A. GURVAL is an assistant professor
in the department of classics at the University of
Oregon at Eugene.

WILLIAM W. PAXTON is the director of leas-
ing for Dallas-based Prentiss Properties Limited
Inc. He and his wife, Carter, live in Atlanta with
their son, Will.

After being transferred with the

Army and Air Force Exchange on
April 14, 1989, GERARD L. BROCCOLI is now
exchange food manager for the Wiesbaden-Mainz
Exchange in Wiesbaden, West Germany.

CAPT. MALINDA E. DUNN is currently sta-
tioned at the Army Procurement Fraud Division
in Washington, D.C.

STEVEN M. JOHNSON
was named vice president,
general counsel and secretary
of Tredegar Industries Inc.
last summer. Johnson has
worked as an associate in the
corporate finance division of
the First National Bank of
Chicago, as an associate with
Hunton & Williams in Rich-
mond, and as a partner with the Washington,
D.C., law firm of Sharp, Green & Lankford.

ROBERT B. NEELY is president and owner of
Texas Commercial Properties Inc., a diversified
real estate services firm which manages office,
retail, and apartment space in Texas. He lives in
Dallas with his wife, Laura, and son, Robert Jr., 2.

After spending five years in Atlanta as a consul-
tant with CIGNA’s financial planning division, L.
ANDREW PICK III has returned to Auburn,
Ala., to join family real estate concerns.

DAWN E. WARFIELD is deputy attorney general
and director of the opinions division in the office
of West Virginia Attorney General Charles G.
Brown. Her duties include coordinating the draft-
ing of official opinions of the attorney general;
approving state contracts, deeds, leases, and surety
bonds; and completing settlements on behalf of
the state.

G. U. (GARRY) CARNEAL III has

joined the law firm of Epstein,
Becker, and Green in Washington, D.C. Carneal
graduated from the University of Virginia School
of Law in May 1988.

BARRY R. DUNN is an associate in the leveraged
buyout group of the Bank of America. He lives
in New York City.

T. DANIEL FRITH III, a
partner with the Roanoke
law firm of Mundy, Rogers
& Frith, was elected presi-
dent of the Young Lawyers
Conference of the Virginia
State Bar in June. The

ha Young Lawyers Conference
has more than 6,500 members and comprises ap-
proximately 40 percent of the Virginia State Bar.

MARIO J. RUIZ is enrolled in the master’s degree
program in psychology at Florida International
University. He lives in Coral Gables.

NATHAN H. SMITH, an attorney with Bernstein,
Shur, Sawyer, and Nelson in Portland, Maine, has
been named Regional Citizen of the Year by the
Greater Portland Council of Governments. He has
been active in working for affordable housing and
property tax reform. Smith and his wife, Eleanor,
live in Portland with their son, Jonathan.

JEFFERY M. WALTER has joined his father’s
marketing communications firm, Walter and
Associates, in Greenville, S.C. He had been a
Reagan appointee and finished his tenure May 1,
1989.

ROBERT M. WAYMOUTH is an assistant pro-
fessor of chemistry at Stanford University.

  

ANDREW H. BACKUS is com-

pleting work towards a master’s
degree in energy and mineral resources at the
University of Texas in Austin. He recently com-
pleted six months in a supervisory position for
INTERA Tech Inc. on a uranium mill reclama-
tion project in New Mexico.

THOMAS J. BRONNER recently joined the Na-
tional Bank of Canada in its New York City
branch. He is a vice president, handling real estate
and corporate finance and syndications.

JAMES T. DALY has been promoted to vice
president of Southern National Bank in
Greensboro, N.C. He serves as a commercial loan
officer. Daly joined the bank in 1988.

After four and a half years as a reporter with
newspapers in Danville, Va., and Tampa, Fla.,
FRANCIS L. JACKMAN is now working for
Aviation Daily. He lives in Washington, D.C.,
with his wife, Molly.

JONATHAN R. KELAFANT is senior explora-
tion geologist with ICF Resources in Fairfax, Va.
During the past year he has been to Australia,
China, and Turkey to assess the feasibility of pro-
ducing natural gas from coal seams. He currently
lives in Vienna, Va.

After completing his master’s degree in
hydrogeology at the University of Montana,
WILLIAM M. PEERY is employed as a
hydrogeologist with Hydrometrics Inc. in Helena,
Mont.

RICHARD R. THOMAS is a commercial litigator
with the Phoenix, Ariz., law firm of Polese, Hiner,
and Nolan. He and his wife, Melinda, have five
children: Ben, 10; Jessica, 8; Sam, 6; Andrew, 2;
and Sydnee, 6 months.

J. GRANT McGUIRE is a partner

with the Huntington, W.Va., law
firm of Campbell, Woods, Bagley, Emerson,
McNeer & Herndon.

THOMAS W. PRITCHARD recently left Drexel
Burnham Lambert and joined the investment firm
of Bear Stearns & Co. in Atlanta.

HEATHER YOUNG is working as an assistant
county attorney for St. Lucie County, Fla.

JAMES T. BERRY JR. is a certified

public accountant with Coopers &
Lybrand in Dallas. He is a supervisor in the energy
group.

B. DARBY BROWER has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president of NCNB National Bank of
Florida. He had been a private banking manager
with NCNB.

PAUL E. FLETCHER III was named publisher
of Virginia Lawyers Weekly in August. He had
been news editor of the legal newspaper.

B. JUDD HARTMAN has joined the law firm of
Spilman, Thomas, Battle & Klostermeyer as an
associate in the Charleston, W.Va., office.

JOHN W. HERNDON III is the head basketball
and golf coach at Episcopal High School in
Houston, where he also teaches Spanish.

STEVEN G. LOGAN was recently transferred and
promoted to account executive in Aetna’s New
York City employee benefits office.

PAUL D. MARASCIULLO works with Dean
Witter Reynolds in Melville, N.Y.

MARC F. MONYEK has been promoted to
manager of financial markets in the treasury
department of McDonald’s Corp. He lives in
Chicago.

ROBERT D. PEARSON recently received his
master of business administration degree in finance
from Indiana University in Bloomington. He
works for the Hunnington Group Inc., a real estate
development firm with headquarters in Louisville,
Ky.

JAY M. WALLACE graduated from the Univer-
sity of Texas Law School in 1988. He practices law
in Dallas, where he lives with his wife, Kathleen.

 

 

Chris Cartmill, ’84,
Finds Success on Chicago Stage

 

Incorruptible: The Life, Death, and
Dreams of Maximilien de Robespierre,
or, On The Two Contrary States of the
Human Soul is an imposing title for a
play. But then, /ncorruptible, as it was
abbreviated, is an imposing play—when
it premiered last summer at Chicago’s
Bailiwick Repertory, it lasted six hours,
was performed in two parts on successive
evenings, and involved 16 actors who por-
trayed 95 roles and wore some 75
costumes and wigs.

No wonder the play’s author,
Christopher J. Cartmill, ’84, refers to it
simply as ‘‘the monster.’’ Critics had
kinder words for the play, which was
Cartmill’s first: They called it ‘‘an odd,
engaging, original project’? and ‘‘a
fabulously ambitious, panoramic
drama.”’

Cartmill was inspired to write the
script two years ago, during the terminal
illness of his father.

**T was called home to Memphis in my
last year of graduate school at Virginia,
and spent an extraordinary month with
my father—staying with him and saying
goodbye,’’ Cartmill recalls. ‘*On the day
of his funeral, I needed to get away, so
I picked up a book on the French Revolu-

tion and went into my room and read.
The play has a lot to do with fathers and
sons.”’

After earning his master of fine arts
degree from the University of Virginia,
Cartmill decided to pursue an acting
career in Chicago. He has appeared in
numerous local television commercials
and played the role of Gary in a produc-
tion of Noises Off.

**T always knew I wanted to be an ac-
tor,’’ he says, and though he majored in
East Asian studies at Washington and
Lee, he performed in a number of Univer-
sity Theatre productions.

**T attribute much of my play to what
I was allowed to be at W&L. My junior
year we did a production of A Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream. I’ve done it twice
since then, but I believe that the W&L
production was the best. Dr. [Albert C.]
Gordon and our Total Theatre class
created this amazing piece of theatre,’’ he
says.

‘**T would like to write a play about
WA&L. It was an amazing place to be. My
first two years, W&L seemed to be lock-
ed in the late ’50s and early ’60s. It still
had an innocence so much of America
had lost. When I went back not long ago,
I noticed it was still a lot like that.’’

When /ncorruptible finished its run at
Chicago’s Bailiwick Repertory, ‘‘it felt
like having somebody die,’’ Cartmill says.
**T’ve been working on it for two years.”’
Still, the playwright is looking toward the
future. He plans to return to his part in
Noises Off and investigate some television
roles. And, of course, he intends to keep
up his writing.

**I wrote a play for my mother for
Christmas last year,’’ he explains. ‘‘It’s
set in Chicago, and I’m still working on
it.” He adds with a grin, ‘‘I think the play
will be a Christmas story and begin with
a lady throwing herself on the El.’’ (‘‘The
El’? is the nickname for Chicago’s
elevated railway system.)

**1’m also thinking of writing a play
about missionary experiences in China,
and eventually I’d like to write a
children’s play.”’

In his spare time, Cartmill likes to
read and ride his bicycle along Chicago’s
lakefront.

—by Debbie Grove, ’90

 

 

W&L 49

Six Members of Class of ’89 Pedal from Coast to Coast
by Ann S. Smith

The spirit of
adventure and deter-
mination is alive and
well among today’s
young people.

And if you don’t
believe it, consider the
six young men who
pedaled into Eufala
(Ala.) last Friday
evening (Aug. 4) on
the last leg of a
3,700-mile coast-to-
coast bicycle trip from
Astoria, Ore., to
Jacksonville Beach,
Fla. Weary from two
months on the road,
dehydrated from the excessive heat, and bearing all sorts of
battle scars like cramped fingers and muscles, scraped knees
and shoulders, and sun-baked skin, the cyclists wouldn’t con-
sider taking off a day to rest before finishing their trip. Nothing
was going to delay them in completing their mission, which
was to cycle across the United States.

The six are June graduates of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, and this was their big adventure before scattering to seek
their fortunes in the world. Some have career plans already
set—like going to work for Arthur Andersen in Washington,
or going into real estate. Another plans to spend four years
on active duty as an Army officer and then pursue a career
related to his major in East Asian affairs.

The young men are from towns as different as Gorham,
N.H., home of Matt Bevin, and Fort Worth, Texas, home of
Richard Payne. Four are from the Deep South—Jim Johnson
calls Atlanta home, Tommy Thomasson is from Mobile, Jim
Barker is from Jackson, Tenn., and David Surface is from
Jacksonville, Fla.

But no matter where they all may be in the future, their
bicycle trip in the summer of 1989 has forged a permanent
bond. It has given them the assurance that comes from reaching
a challenging goal and it has taught them something new about
the difference between luxuries and necessities. They have
countless stories to tell their grandchildren. And along the way,
they have seen magnificent scenery and met scores of
fascinating people.

Their trip began June 11 when they left Astoria. The six
agreed the first week was the hardest. ‘‘The pain and
soreness—we’ve never felt anything like it,’’ they all agreed.
Also, the weather was cold and rainy—even with hailstorms
sometimes.

There were also ‘‘lots of mechanical problems to contend
with’’ during the first two weeks—like broken chain wheels,
broken spokes, broken chains, and flat tires. Their bikes have

Oly

These six recent graduates of Washington and Lee pause in New Albany, Miss.,
during their coast-to-coast bicycle trip. They are, from left, Jim Johnson, David
Surface, Matt Bevin, Richard Payne, Tommy Thomasson, and Jim Barker. (Photo
by Betty Jo Stewart, New Albany Gazette)

18 to 21 speeds. Two
are converted moun-
tain bikes, two are
cross-terrain bikes,
and two are touring
bikes.

After the men’s
muscles adjusted to
the daily rides averag-
ing 90 miles, however,
the days became
easier. After going
down the Oregon
Coast and crossing the
Cascade Mountains
they spent a few days
at Yellowstone. Their
favorite spot, how-
ever, was Jackson Hole, Wyo., at the foot of the Grand Tetons,
where they spent six days. They also said the Ozarks in Arkan-
sas were ‘‘really beautiful.’’

Asked if they thought about the pioneers who trekked across
the country in covered wagons from the opposite direction,
they said when they crossed the Continental Divide they really
did think about their own journey, with the luxury of a road,
in comparison with crossing an unsettled wilderness in a wagon
or on horseback.

Getting across Kansas was tedious—‘‘the landscape never
changed,’’ they said. Although Kansas was difficult because
of its size, the sameness of the landscape, and the strong head-
winds, ‘‘that’s where we met the nicest people,’’ they agreed.

Interesting memories they will carry a lifetime are of things
like staying in an 18-foot teepee in Sisters, Ore. They couldn’t
stay in the campground (they camped in tents throughout their
trip) because it was filled with a Honda Gold Wing Rally. The
owner of the teepee, who overheard their plight and offered
them a place to stay, turned out to be a unique character who
had built his own house of logs.

After leaving Eufala they planned to cycle along to Tif-
ton, Ga., and then to Waycross, leaving only about 85 miles
for their final day.

“I’m going to ride my bike straight into the Atlantic
Ocean,’’ David Surface said. Family and friends are planning
to be on hand, with ‘‘a big surprise’ being planned by David’s
brother.

It would have been great fun to be at Jacksonville Beach
Monday night, to hear the shouts and see the faces of some
real-life modern-day adventurers as they reached their journey’s
end.

 

Ann S. Smith is a staff writer for the Eufala, Ala., Tribune. This arti-
cle appeared in the Aug. 11, 1989, edition of the Tribune and is
reprinted here by permission.

 

JAMES L. WILLIAMS JR. is an assistant city at-
torney for the city of Dallas.

PETER K. BRADEN is an associate

consultaat in the investment con-
sulting department of Wheat, First Securities Inc.
He lives in Richmond.

GUY A. CALDWELL is pursuing a doctoral
degree in molecular biology at the University of
Tennessee. His research interests are focused on
the study of cellular mechanisms associated with
cancer. He recently presented research at the Cold
Spring Harbor (N.Y.) Laboratory, and he is the
current director of the University of Tennessee
Biotechnology Laboratory. He is also the coauthor
of an introductory laboratory text to be published
by Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich next spring.

PATRICK L. CUMMINGS earned a juris doctor
degree from the Dickinson School of Law in June.

A May 1989 graduate of the West Virginia Univer-
sity College of Law, EDWARD M. GEORGE III
is now an associate with the law firm of Phillips,
Gardill, Kaiser, Boos, and Harley in Wheeling,
W.Va.

After working for First Union Corp. for three
years, JAMES Y. KERR II has entered law school
at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

CHRISTOPHER J. KOMOSA is assistant
treasurer with Chase Manhattan Bank’s financial
consulting group. He lives in Manhattan.

STEVEN E. LOSQUADRO is assistant district at-
torney in New York County. He graduated from
the Washington College of Law at American
University last spring.

GERALD D. SHEPHERD graduated from Co-
lumbia Law School in May. He works as an
associate in the New York office of Sullivan and
Cromwell.

MATTHEW R. VAWTER is leaving the United
Missouri Bank of Kansas City to attend the
American Graduate School of International
Management (Thunderbird) in Phoenix, Ariz.

In November DONALD E. WILLIAMS JR. faced
reelection to his second term as first selectman of
the Board of Selectmen of Thompson, Conn. The
position of first selectman, which Williams has
held since 1987, is equivalent to that of mayor.
During his time in office Williams has implemented
a number of programs, including a solid waste
disposal plan, which involves recycling solid waste
disposal for reuse. Thompson is the first New
England town to mine a portion of its landfill.
Williams also practices law part time with the firm
of Boland, St. Onge, and Brouillard in Putnam,
Conn. His brother, DOUGLAS J. WILLIAMS,
’*88L, practices with the same firm.

THOMAS J. BRINKMAN II is

pursuing a master of business
administration degree in real estate and construc-
tion management at the University of Denver.

GLYNN B. CARTLEDGE practices law with
Robison, Belaustegui, Robb & Sharp in Reno,
Nev. She and her two children live in Lake Tahoe.

DAVID A. COLF was recently elected to the
board of directors of the East Central Communi-
ty Legal Services Corp. He practices as in-house
counsel for IBM Corp. and lives in Morrisville,
N.C.

RICHARD E. LAIL works for First Union Na-
tional Bank of Georgia, where he is a branch
manager of the Peachtree Center office in Atlan-
ta. He had been bank manager of Liberty Savings
Bank.

CHRISTOPHER J. LEDERER is working for
North Carolina Partners Advertising Inc. as an ac-
count executive for Ocean Spray Cranberry
Drinks. He lives in Greenwich, Conn.

JOHN V. LOWE teaches English, Spanish, and
speech and drama at Easton High School in
Easton, Md., where he also coaches wrestling and
tennis.

JOHN R. MAASS is a claims representative for
Progressive Casualty Insurance Co. in Richmond.
He is also a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army
Reserve, 80th Division Logistics Group.

DONALD L. McCOY received the American
Jurisprudence Award in Tort Law from the Denver
University Law School, where he is a second-year
student.

JUDITH M. RINGLAND received her master’s
degree in education from the College of William
and Mary in May. She is now the assistant direc-
tor of residence life at Virginia Wesleyan College.

DONALD R. SPRATT practices in the tax depart-
ment of the law firm Mays & Valentine in
Richmond.

RICHARD E. WHALEN is deputy town attorney
for East Hampton, N.Y. His primary responsibili-
ty is to advise the planning board and zoning board
of appeals.

Since late February 1989, W. DAVID

DUNN JR. has been living in Alex-
andria, Va., and working as a paralegal for the
law firm of Dempsey, Bastianelli, Brown &
Touhey, Chtd.

ERICH J. P. FABER was recently appointed to
serve on the public relations committee of the
Roanoke area chapter of the Virginia Society of
Certified Public Accountants. He works with the
public accounting firm of Young & Prickitt in
Roanoke.

C. JOHN McKAY has returned from the School
for Field Studies Wildlife Management Center in
Kenya, Africa, where he worked as an intern for
two semesters.

NORMAN Z. SIGLER works for BCM Engineers
in Mobile, Ala., as a scientist.

STEPHANIE M. COLEMAN is a
legislative assistant on Capitol Hill.
She lives in Alexandria, Va.

THOMAS K. HERNDON is an account coor-
dinator with Doe-Anderson Public Relations. He
lives in Louisville, Ky.

PHILIP E. McCARTHY II is an associate in the
New York law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Put-
nam & Roberts. He lives in Short Hills, N.J.

THOMAS R. R. PETTUS, a senior at Longwood
College, was one of two Virginia students to
receive the newly established Barry M. Goldwater
Scholarships this year. Goldwater Scholars are
selected on the basis of academic merit and prom-
ise in the fields of mathematics and science. Pet-
tus is majoring in chemistry and mathematics at
Longwood.

 

 

 

Marriages

DAVID R. DOUGHERTY, ’68, and Katherine
Early Roper on July 29, 1989. The couple lives in
Roanoke, where Dougherty is headmaster of
North Cross School.

THOMAS D. LANCASTER, ’75, and Marianne
Ulmer on June 10, 1989, in Bavaria, West Ger-
many. Best man was William H. Braunlich, ’79L.
Following his yearlong sabbatical in Germany,
Lancaster and his wife will return to Atlanta,
where he is an associate professor of political
science at Emory University.

 

WILLIAM P. FISHBACK, ’81, and Lori Ann
Gutzwiller on July 1, 1989. Fishback is on the staff
of the National Center for State Courts in
Williamsburg.

JAMES D. STANTON JR., ’82, and Christine
Anne Carpenter on March 26, 1989. Stanton is
employed by the Registry Hotel Corp. as national
sales manager.

JAMES L. BALDWIN JR., ’83, and Susan S.
Collins on Sept. 23, 1989, in San Antonio, Texas.
G. Leighton Stradtman, ’84, was best man and
Michael D. Drinkwater, ’83, Forrest N. Jenkins
II, 84, and Dwight H. Emanuelson Jr., ’84, were
groomsmen.

ANDREW D. BUTTERS, ’83, and Sarah W. Ed-
munds on Aug. 12, 1989, in Lee Chapel. Butters
works for Massachusetts Mutual, and the couple
lives in Waynesboro, Va.

V. J. (SAY) FECHTEL III, ’83, and Terri Lynn
Hogan on May 7, 1989, in Tampa, Fla. Classmates
Brian L. Hanson and Frank L. Eppes were
groomsmen. Fechtel owns a building and develop-
ment business in Tampa.

CAPT. EDWARD J. O’BRIEN, ’84, and Susan
E. Wilson on July 8, 1989, in Lime Springs, lowa.
Capt. Andrew J. MacLellan, ’84, was best man.
O’Brien is studying law at the University of Notre
Dame in South Bend, Ind.

ANDREW G. HARING, ’85, and Etsuko Hosoda
on Sept. 3, 1989.

TROY E. ANDRADE, ’86, and Anne M. Bates
on Aug. 12, 1989, in Atlanta. Groomsmen includ-
ed Jon D. Solomon, ’88, and classmate Mark N.
Fishman. Andrade, a 1989 graduate of Santa Clara
University School of Law, is an associate with the
law firm of Klinedinst & Fliehman in San Diego,
Calif. The couple lives in La Jolla.

MICHAEL E. BROOKS, ’86, and Nancy L. Mer-
rill on Oct. 1, 1988. The couple lives in Old Town
Alexandria, Va., where Brooks works for the ac-
counting firm of Deloitte, Haskins & Sells.

JOHN L. ROBERTS, ’87, and Allison Calhoun
on Sept. 2, 1989, in Johns Island, S.C.
Groomsmen included classmates Bruce A. Reed,
O. J. (Jay) Kendall, Glynn M. Alexander Jr., and
M. Graham Loomis. The couple is living in
Pendleton, S.C., while Roberts pursues a master’s
degree in accounting at Clemson University.

J. BAKER GENTRY JR., ’88, and Sarah An-
thony on June 24, 1989, in Fort Worth, Texas.

DOROTHY L. MILLS, ’89, and J. DEAN
NUCKOLS, ’88, on July 9, 1989, in White Plains,
N.Y. Thomas L. Bellamy, ’88, John W. Deighan,

Wee ok

89, and Rhona M. Hughes, ’89, were members
of the wedding party. The groom is a student at
the University of Virginia medical school, and the
bride is employed by Central Fidelity Bank. They
live in Charlottesville.

 

 

Births

 

 

MR. AND MRS. BRUCE A. MEYERS, ’70, a
daughter, Elizabeth Hannah-Yusem, on April 30,
1989. Meyers is senior capital improvements plan-
ner for the Arizona Department of Adminis-
tration.

MR. AND MRS. GILBERT S. MEEM JR., ’72,
a son, Langhorne Halsey, and a daughter, Baird
Wescott, on Aug. 16, 1989. The twins join a
brother, Simrall, 8. Meem is a senior vice presi-
dent with Dean Witter in New York City.

MR. AND MRS. JOHN M. SHUEY JR., ’73, a
daughter, Madison Grace, on June 4, 1989. The
family lives in Shreveport, La.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES N. CARR JR., ’74, a
daughter, Amanda Elizabeth, on June 13, 1989.
Carr is president of Ferguson-Carr Advertising in
Jenkintown, Pa.

MR. AND MRS. E. PHIFER HELMS, ’74, a
daughter, Caroline Bowie, on July 6, 1989. She
joins two sisters, Virginia, 6, and Sarah, 4. The
family lives in Greer, S.C.

MR. AND MRS. J. RANDOLPH TAYLOR, ’75,
twin sons, Christopher John and Andrew Ran-

dolph, on July 26, 1989. They join a sister,
Stephanie Elizabeth. Taylor has started his own
business, J.R. Taylor and Co., a tax and finan-
cial planning services firm in Bethesda, Md.

MR. AND MRS. T. HARRY WALL IV, ’75, a
son, Henry Conlin, on June 9, 1989. He joins a
sister, Callie. Wall is a financial consultant with
Merrill Lynch in Louisville, Ky.

MR. AND MRS. J. KIMBLE RATLIFF JR., ’76,
a daughter, Joyce Callahan, on June 6, 1989. The
infant joins two brothers, Kimble III, 4, and
Thornton, 2. Ratliff is vice president and corporate
general partner with Collateral Mortgage Ltd., a
mortgage banking firm with offices in 10
Southeastern states. The family lives in Bir-
mingham, Ala.

MR. AND MRS. R. L. (CHARLIE) THIER-
INGER, ’76, a daughter, Dana Kathryn, on June
19, 1989. Thieringer is employed by Atlantic Cos.
in New York City. The family lives in West
Caldwell, N.J.

MR. AND MRS. MICHAEL E. FORRY, ’77, a
daughter, Meghan Ann, on Sept. 8, 1989. She joins
a brother, Taylor. The family lives in Manassas,
Va.

MR. AND MRS. L. F. (ROCKY) JOYNER JR.,
°77, a daughter, Ashley Delores, on March 30,
1989. The family lives in Kennesaw, Ga.

MR. AND MRS. DOUGLAS A. SCOVANNER,
°77, a son, Timothy Kitson, on March 2, 1989.
Scovanner is treasurer of Coca-Cola Enterprises
in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. ARTHUR R. CARMODY III,
*78, ason, Aubry Fortier, on June 22, 1989. Car-

 

Send Some News for Class Notes

 

Name

Class

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

 

 

 

 

Send to: Class Notes
W&L Alumni Magazine ¢ Reid Hall
Washington and Lee University ¢ Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

52. W&L

mody and his wife, Jacquie, have three other sons,
Arthur, Harrison, and Kenner. The family lives
in Shreveport, La.

MR. AND MRS. BRIAN P. CARROLL, ’78, a
son, Kevin Michael, on Aug. 5, 1989. Carroll is
employed by IBM. The family lives in Morristown,
N.J.

MR. AND MRS. BENJAMIN I. JOHNS JR., ’78,
a son, Benjamin Tucker, on Aug. 6, 1989. Johns
is president and owner of Bacova Guild Ltd. in
Bacova, Va.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD R. CROWDER,
*79L, a daughter, Sarah Rea, on Aug. 31, 1989.
She joins a sister, Rachel, 2. Crowder is a partner
in the Washington, D.C., law firm of Bishop,
Cook, Purcell & Reynolds, where he specializes
in corporate and securities law. The family lives
in Arlington, Va.

MR. AND MRS. J. ANDREW FITZGERALD,
°79, a daughter, Catherine Cecilia, on July 10,
1989. The family lives in Kensington, Md.

MR. AND MRS. HARRY E. HALL, ’79, a son,
Jordan Ellis, on May 3, 1989. Hall is employed
with Walker & Dunlop Southeast Inc., a commer-
cial real estate and mortgage banking firm, in
Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. A. C. (CHIP) MAGEE JR.,
*79L, a son, John Carter, on June 23, 1989. The
family lives in Roanoke.

MR. AND MRS. RUSSELL B. PARMELE JR.,
80, a daughter, Hanne Gray, on June 13, 1989.
Parmele was recently promoted to leasing manager
with Kroger Properties in Nashville, Tenn. He and
his wife, Diane, also have a son, Beau.

MR. AND MRS. C. B. (CHIP) COLONNA JR.,
*81, a daughter, Kelly Morgan, on April 19, 1989.
Kelly joins Brad, 5, and Meagan, 4. Colonna is
regional sales manager for the Baker’s Industrial
Group, a part of Kraft General Foods.

MR. AND MRS. JAMES K. FALK, ’81, ’84L,
a son, Perry McCants Castleman, on June 14,
1989. He joins a brother, Simmons. The family
lives in Prospect, Ky.

CAPT. AND MRS. DOUGLAS R. LINTON III,
82, a daughter, Kimberly Janelle, on Sept. 25,
1989. The family lives in Ludwigsburg, West Ger-
many, where Linton serves in the U.S. Army.

MR. AND MRS. C. DeWITT CARUTHERS, ’83,
a daughter, Clara Elizabeth, on May 21, 1989.
Caruthers practices law with the firm of King &
Spalding in Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH L. FANT IV, ’83, a
daughter, Caroline Hutton, on Sept. 27, 1989.
Fant, his wife, Anne, and their daughter live in
Atlanta.

MR. AND MRS. THOMAS B. SHEPHERD III,
°84L, ason, James Martin, on May 12, 1989. He
joins a brother, Banks. Shepherd practices
business, corporate, and insurance regulatory law
with Watkins Ludlam & Stennis in Jackson, Miss.
He is also a member of the Hinds County
Republican Executive Committee.

MR. AND MRS. BENJAMIN F. EMANUEL III,
*85L, a son, Benjamin F. IV, on Sept. 20, 1989.
Emanuel is a manager with Peat Marwick, where
he specializes in international taxation. The family
lives in Hartsdale, N.Y.

MR. AND MRS. RICHARD S. GATTI III, ’85,
a daughter, Meagan Lee, on Dec. 10, 1988. Gatti

works in the financial division of the Hecht Co.
The family lives in Kensington, Md.

MR. AND MRS. CHARLES C. PITTS, ’85, a
son, Charles Carpenter Jr., on July 22, 1989. Pitts
is development manager of Complete Health Inc.
in Birmingham, Ala.

 

In Memoriam

JOHN PHILLIP LYNCH JR., 730, a retired
specialist in internal medicine and geriatrics at the
McGuire Clinic of St. Luke’s Hospital in Rich-
mond, died July 15, 1989. After earning his
bachelor of arts degree from W&L, where he was
a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the recipient of
the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion, he taught
English and physiology at his alma mater, St.
Petersburg High School. He earned his medical
degree from the Medical College of Virginia in
1935 and, after completing two internships,
entered practice at the McGuire Clinic, where he
worked for the next 47 years. From 1954 to 1973
he was an assistant professor of clinical medicine
at the Medical College of Virginia. He also taught
medicine at St. Luke’s Hospital of Nursing for
more than 40 years. Lynch was vice president of
the Medical Society of Virginia, president of the
Richmond Academy of Medicine, chief of staff
for the Virginia Home, and a fellow of the
American Geriatric Society. He was also a member
and elder of the First Presbyterian Church of
Richmond.

 

 

 

MORTON PAUL LEVY, ’31, retired purchasing
agent for the Star Band Co. of Portsmouth, Va.,
died April 4, 1989. Following his graduation from
WA&L, Levy held a series of jobs: He worked for
a Portsmouth contractor, sold insurance, and
managed a service station before becoming a pur-
chasing agent for Wholesale Seafoods of Ports-
mouth. In 1963 he began work for Star Band, a
manufacturer of Christmas decorations and
novelties. He was a member and chairman of the
Portsmouth Board of Zoning Appeals and was the
recipient of the first ‘‘Lion of the Year’’ Award
given by the Portsmouth Lions Club.

JACOB ALBERT WEINBERG JR., ’31, a real
estate counselor and appraiser, died May 20, 1989.
He was chairman of the board of the Carey
Winston Co. He served as a trustee of South-
eastern University and as a director of Central
Charge Services Inc. Weinberg was also a member
of the Motor Vehicle Parking Agency and the Real
Estate Commission of the District of Columbia.

WINSTON WILLIAM BROWN, ’35L, retired at-
torney for United Energy Resources in Shreveport,
La., died Sept. 24, 1989. Following his gradua-
tion from W&L, Brown began legal work for
Union Producing Co. He was responsible for
federal regulation and general contract work.
Union Producing underwent several mergers and
consolidations but Brown continued to work for
the company until 1974, when he retired as senior
attorney. He was a member and elder of the First
Presbyterian Church of Shreveport.

SAMUEL CRAWFORD MATTOXxX, ’35, captain
of the 1934 Southern Conference Championship
football team at W&L and longtime general
manager for Leggett Department Stores, died Aug.
5, 1989, in Louisburg, N.C. After graduating from

W&L he joined the Belk-Leggett Stores, where he
remained for the next 42 years. In 1939, he opened
Leggett stores in Louisburg and Franklinton, N.C.
He transferred to the Leggett store in Radford,
Va., in 1954 and stayed there until his retirement
in 1977. While in Radford he served four years
as mayor and eight years on the Radford City
Council. He was also president of the Merchants
Association, the Chamber of Commerce, and the
Rotary Club. For 18 years he served as a director
of the First & Merchants National Bank and was
a board member of the Radford University Foun-
dation. Mattox was a senior warden and vestryman
of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Louisburg.

JOSEPH HENRY SAWYERS, ’35, a longtime
teacher at Sissonville High School in Charleston,
W.Va., and the founder of its football team, died
Sept. 24, 1989. In the fall of 1935 Sawyers became
the head coach of all sports at Sissonville. From
1935 to 1965 he was the coach of the basketball
team and from 1959 to 1971 he served as the track
coach as well. Following his retirement in 1971,
the high school football field was named for him.
He was a director of the Bank of Sissonville and
a charter member of Aldersgate United Methodist
Church at Sissonville.

LEWIS ARCHER McMURRAN, ’36, former
Virginia legislator and cultural and civic leader in
Newport News, died July 17, 1989. McMurran,
who has been called ‘‘one of the most powerful
men in the General Assembly during the 1970s,”’
represented Newport News in the House of
Delegates from 1948 to 1979. Legislation he spon-
sored called for the establishment of Christopher
Newport College and the construction of the
Hampton Roads Tunnel. He was also a delegate
to Democratic National Conventions from 1948
to 1968 and a member of the platform committee
in 1960, 1964, and 1968. McMurran spent 30 years
as the chairman of the Jamestown Festival Park
and the Yorktown Victory Center. He was intense-
ly interested in Great Britain, and in 1959 Queen
Elizabeth II conferred upon him the rank of Of-
ficer of the British Empire. McMurran was also
a founding director of the Bank of Virginia;
secretary and director of the Citizens Rapid Transit
Co.; and a trustee of the Virginia Historical Socie-
ty. He was a trustee of the Virginia Opera and a
fellow of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and
was instrumental in the founding of the Peninsula
Symphony Orchestra. McMurran was a lifelong
member of the First Presbyterian Church in
Newport News, where he served as both deacon
and elder.

ROBERT WOODS SPESSARD, ’39, ’48L,
Roanoke attorney and state legislator, died July
29, 1989. He was a charter member of both the
Virginia State Sports Hall of Fame and
Washington and Lee’s Athletic Hall of Fame. As
an undergraduate, Spessard was a three-time All-
Southern Conference basketball star, finishing his
career with 1,120 points. From 1965 to 1967 he
was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates.
He was a director of the Roanoke Bar Associa-
tion and the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce and
was a member of the State Water Control Board.
He also served as a substitute judge and proba-
tion officer for the Juvenile and Domestic Rela-
tions Court in Roanoke.

JUDGE GOULDING WILLIAM SWIFT JR.,
°39L, retired judge for the 3rd Circuit Court of
Appeals, died Aug. 5, 1989. After earning his law
degree from W&L, he studied civil law at Loui-

siana State University. He began his law practice
in 1940 with the firm of McCoy and King in Lake
Charles, La. In 1960 he was elected as a judge to
the Louisiana 14th Judicial District, a position he
held until he was elected to the 3rd Circuit Court.
During his career as a judge, he also served on the
Louisiana Court of Appeals, 4th Circuit, and the
Criminal District Court for Orleans Parish. Swift
was president of the Louisiana District Judges’
Association and the Southwest Louisiana Bar
Association. He also served as president of the
Lake Charles YMCA; as chairman of the Cal-
casieu-Camerson chapter of the American Red
Cross; and as the Calcasieu-Cameron fund chair-
man of the March of Dimes. He was a member
of the First United Methodist Church in Lake
Charles and served on its board of stewards.

DAVID GEORGE BRAHAM BENJAMIN, ’40,
the former vice president of FloTite Plastics Corp.,
died April 5, 1989. After graduation, Benjamin
entered the U.S. Army and spent four years as an
instructor in communications at Fort Knox. In
1946 he returned to civilian life and formed the
Bib-ex Corp. to manufacture a patented children’s
disposable bib. He joined Flo-Tite Plastics in 1971.

RICHARD THOMAS WRIGHT, ’42, president
and owner of Wright Properties Inc. in Annan-
dale, Va., died May 22, 1989. Immediately follow-
ing graduation, Wright entered the Marine Corps,
where he served for four and a half years and saw
action at Guadalcanal, Iwo Jima, and Normandy
and in southern France. In 1947 he went to work
as a sales manager for a real estate firm in
Washington, D.C. He left four years later to join
the advertising and public relations department at
the Aluminum Co. of America in Pittsburgh. In
1955 he organized and opened Wright Properties
Inc., a privately held building and land develop-
ment company. Subsidiary corporations included
the Wexford Corp., Wright Land Development
Co., Ardmore Association Inc., and the Argyle
Investment Corp. Wright served as president of
the Metropolitan Washington Builders Associa-
tion; director of the National Association of Home
Builders; and chairman of the Fairfax (Va.) Public
Works Committee. He also wrote a regular real
estate column for the Washington Evening Star.
In 1971 he received the Metropolitan Washington
Builders Association ‘‘Man of the Year’’ Award.
He was a member of the First Presbyterian Church
of Annandale, Va.

ROBERT COULBOURNE MEHORTER, ’44,
’49L, of Westfield, N.J., retired vice president of
Home Insurance Co., died May 12, 1989. He
joined the insurance company soon after gradua-
tion and continued to work there until his retire-
ment in 1984. He was a member of Christian
Businessmen, Gideons International, and the
Society of Charter Property and Casualty Under-
writers. He was also actively involved in youth
football and Little League baseball in Westfield
and was an elder of Woodside Chapel in Fanwood,
N.J.

DANIEL JAMES LITTLE, ’49, an attorney from
Olympia Fields, Ill., died July 23, 1989. Follow-
ing graduation from Washington and Lee, Little
earned his juris doctor degree from the Universi-
ty of Michigan. In 1952 he joined the law firm of
Bulkley, Butler and Rini in Cleveland. After four
years of practice he joined Harris Intertype Corp.
In 1962 he became assistant secretary of Interlake
Steel Corp., a position he held until 1969. After

Wa&L 53

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive and
sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas, birth-
days, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms The Arm Chair and Boston

190 - Not including freight ch Rocker are also available in
$190 - Not including freight charges caicrt Wek le ain. with

crest in five colors, at the same
BOSTON ROCKER price as the black arm chair and

All black lacquer rocker.
$170 - Not including freight charges

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges will
be billed after delivery. Estimates for those charges are available upon request. Freight charges
and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

And Furthermore

EDITOR:

My friend and classmate, and our associate
alumni secretary, Jimmy (White Lightning) Far-
rar, ’74, favored me with a copy of the Athletic
Hall of Fame 1989 program. It is a beautiful piece
in every respect.

I am thrilled for Skip Lichtfuss, ’74. He cer-
tainly deserves to be recognized as one of the best,
that is, one of the first athletes elected to our Hall
of Fame. I have no fonder memories of my years
in Lexington than those of Skip, and Teddy Bauer,
’74, too for that matter, gliding and darting down
Wilson Field like antelope through forests of Navy
and Virginia defenders. It was, truly, a beautiful,
energy-charged spectacle for all those privileged
to be there. In fact, I enjoyed watching Skip and
his lacrosse teammates so much that I made the
decision not to pursue a fourth letter in varsity
baseball principally so I could attend the games
and see them run up and down the field.

I believe that Skip may be the greatest athlete
our school ever enjoyed, bar none. It was com-
mon understanding between 1970 and 1973 that
Skip probably could have walked into the foot-
ball locker room and claimed any skilled position
on those teams he might have desired (that is, ex-
cept for Farrar’s and mine). The advent of basket-
ball season precluded that. Nevertheless, it did not
preclude late-night ‘‘can you imagine’”’ discussion
among Purple Pile-Driver brothers (Fat Boy, Skin,
Beets, Beastly, FluBelly, et al) in the basement of
the Fiji house, namely: ‘‘Can you imagine if we
had Lichtfuss and Bauer at the wide-outs, or run-
ning out of the backfield,’’ and so on.

No one can deny that lacrosse made springtime
at W&L an extra-special place during the Lichtfuss
years. Even those whose regular interests did not
include the sports page of the Post scurried across
the footbridge to ‘‘Friendly Wilson’’ to celebrate
our school’s preeminence on the field. There may
never again be such a sustained period of athletic
excellence at W&L. Skip was the most excellent
of the excellent, and his elevation to the Hall is
a just reward. I hope he will receive the honor also
as a ‘“‘thank you”’ from all alumni who watched
him play.

JAMES N. NOLAN, ’74
Shoal Creek, Ala.

EDITOR:

Your article on athletics in the spring 1989 issue
of the Alumni Magazine [‘‘The Legacy of the
Beechenbrooks’’] brought back many fond
memories of my years at Washington and Lee
(1930-34). I was saddened that no mention was
made of our boxing teams. We too competed in
the Southern Conference and took on Navy, also.
Our coach was Tex Tilson. We trained alongside
the wrestling squad of Archie Mathis. We weren’t
all winners but we tried hard, and our efforts were
well received by the student body and Lexington
community.

If time and space permit, I respectfully sub-
mit, some mention should be made to the alumni
of our boxing teams. I believe the boxing program
was cancelled in the late ’30s or early 40s. Would
you be so kind as to advise me when and why?

E. Powers MINCHER, 735L
Nokomis, Fla.

Editor’s note: Washington and Lee did indeed sup-
port an intercollegiate boxing team, from 1922 to
1935. During those years, the teams compiled a
cumulative record of 22-34-3 in matches against
such opponents as Yale, the Universities of
Virginia and North Carolina, Army, and Virginia
Tech. On March 15, 1935, Washington and Lee’s
Athletic Council voted to eliminate the sport. The
members of the council explained their reasons in
the following resolution: ‘‘While we feel that box-
ing classes where a boy is taught the principles of
self defense, are desirable we believe that inter-
collegiate boxing is an athletic activity in which
one of the chief objectives is, in effect, to in-
capacitate one’s opponent. We consider this to be
inconsistent with the aims of an educational in-
stitution. Therefore, the Athletic Council has voted
to abolish boxing at W&L.’’ In 1960 the NCAA
discontinued championships in boxing.

EDITOR:

I find it hard to believe that a professor of
religion at Washington and Lee or any other in-
stitution would be guilty of such bias as that
displayed by Louis W. Hodges in his ‘‘sermon’’
on authority and power. I refer to his one-sided
discussion of the current dispute between the
United Mine Workers and the Pittston Coal Co.,
as published in the September 1989 issue of the
Alumni Magazine.

For the record, I have no interest of any kind
in the Pittston Co. It may well be guilty of the
abuses cited by Professor Hodges. But what of the
UMW? Are not destruction of private property,
blocking the public from using the public
highways, random shootings from ambush,
physical assaults on individuals, and general
hooliganism not abuses of authority and power on
the part of the union and its officers? The courts
apparently think so, having jailed the union leaders
on several occasions and fined the union more than
$20 million to date in the course of the dispute.

I find it even more appalling that the A/umni
Magazine would publish Hodges’ hypocritical
diatribe without comment and thereby give his
point of view the appearance of having the ap-
proval of the Alumni Association and of the
University. Surely both stand for evaluating all
sides of a disagreement before making a judgment.

CHRISTOPHER S. Moore, °50
Williamsburg, Va.

Editor’s note: Signed articles published in the
Alumni Magazine reflect the views of the author,
and not necessarily those of the editorial staff, the
Alumni Association, or the University.

EDITOR:

I, too, cannot resist commenting on Curt
Smith’s letter [A/umni Magazine, September 1989]
commenting on Pat Hinely’s letter [Alumni
Magazine, June 1989]. There are many things
which must be commented upon.

If Mr. Smith is castigating Mr. Hinely and his
**sort’’ or those of his ‘‘ilk’’ about having claim-
ed to be the originators of the manner of political
resistance termed ‘‘civil disobedience,’’ I find that
rather amusing. I am sure that Pat or his sort, etc.
(of whom I would be forced to count myself a

Letters to the Editor

member) are aware that political resistance (civil
or otherwise) has a long and complex history. No
one, informed of even the rudiments of this sub-
ject, would make such a claim.

A statement about a war’s ‘‘justness’’ is always
a statement of perspective. Vietnam is no excep-
tion. It has a lot to do with how one answers many
morality questions. The answers are often a reflec-
tion of how, to whom, or when the questions are
asked. Many times it depends on if the ‘‘right’’
questions are ever asked. Was the American Civil
War (or, if you are from the South, the War be-
tween the States) a just war? What did the com-
batants think it was about? I remember Dr. Bell
Wiley from Emory in a speech showing that the
fruits of his decades of research into the motiva-
tions of the common soldier showed their motiva-
tions (i.e., why they thought their actions were
those of justice) were overwhelmingly based on
preserving the union. Is that just? Was that worth
the bloodshed and loss? That is why historians
argue and search for elusive and evolving truth
concerning human actions.

Vietnam just? I don’t know. It has a lot to do
with domino theories and fear of Communism and
the overriding themes of US and THEM. It has
a lot to do with whether one owns stock in war
production companies or whether one feels em-
pathy for those having napalm dumped on their
children. The fact that the flood of Vietnamese
has fled has very little to do with it. While the U.S.-
backed dictators ruled, they couldn’t have come
here at all. Mr. Smith’s crowning point, that peo-
ple vote with their feet, is not a valid one. Refugees
from governments we support are not refugees at
all; they’re political criminals—same people, of
course, but different answers to different questions
at different times.

Finally, Mr. Smith’s perspective about the
Khmer Rouge needs widening. During the post-
French era till the United States deliberately and
blatantly overthrew the royal regime in Cambodia,
it was a relatively successful and peaceful, neutral
nation. The Khmer Rouge were on the verge of
extinction till the United States and our polariz-
ing actions gave the people a reason to listen to
them. Was the coup just? I guess it has to do with
how one would assess the tactical advantages gain-
ed by the Nixon regime against the ensuing
carnage.

Mr. Smith asks if Mr. Hinely is proud. My gut
feeling (but I do not know) is that Pat is proud
of the questions he asked and his reaction to the
answers he found regarding Vietnam and our na-
tion’s part in it. Perhaps Mr. Smith feels the same
way. History, though, will not judge. . .all it can
do, if we are lucky, is provide increasing amounts
of information for us, individually, to judge as to
whether something is ‘‘just’’ or not.

ANDREW G. HOLLINGER, ’73
Bedford, Texas

EDITOR:

I have just read with consuming fascination
Robert A. Kingsbury’s ‘‘Here’s One for the Honor
System, or Confessions of a Dyslexic’’ (Alumni
Magazine, September 1989). As he was graduating
in 1937, | was entering as a freshman.

While I cannot recall Robert Kingsbury as a
personality, the name Bob Kingsbury rings a

W&L 355

familiar bell. For 50 years, I have assumed I was
the only dyslexic to attend Washington and Lee.
I will now share that claim with Bob. However,
I will not yield my assumed claim of being the
greenist, most naive, most awkward, inadequate,
poorly prepared freshman in the history of the
institution.

Bob asks, ‘‘God only knows if someone else
suffered the difficulty of getting a college educa-
tion at Washington and Lee while being dyslexic
and not knowing it.’’ I had dyslexia and I suffered.
When I entered, I was only marginally literate. My
40th reunion was more pleasant and enjoyable
than my student years by large quantum numbers.
Washington and Lee I love, but I did not get
weepy-eyed when singing the ‘‘Swing’’ and ‘‘Col-
lege Friendships.’’

For clarity, I will lump dyslexia under the
generic heading of learning disability. Recovering
from the emotional trauma of having dyslexia and
being in a fast-track scholastic school such as
Washington and Lee has been an item of personal
concern.

As the bottom man in my high school class and
only marginally literate, why was I admitted? This
was no fluke or error and it was not a computer
mistake. I attribute the following to a former ad-
missions dean from Yale: ‘‘The check was good
and the body was warm.’’ Bob and I are
anachronisms.

If one with dyslexia were allowed to enter
Washington and Lee today, the admissions com-
mittee should be fired. They should not be banish-
ed to buildings and grounds, but buildings and
grounds should take over admissions. Washington
and Lee should continue what it is doing and at-
tract the scholastic high achievers.

Some random remarks on dyslexia and learn-
ing disability. It should be viewed not as a defi-
ciency or pathological state but as a neurological
developmental lag. I first identified dyslexia with
a son in the sixth grade. It runs in families on the
male side. In hindsight, this was the cause of my
father’s poor spelling, my own and my two sons’
academic difficulties. It does get involved with and
is a component of behavior and personality
developmental problems.

Dyslexia has nothing to do with intelligence.
I may believe this only because it makes me feel
good, but most dyslexics score high on intelligence.
During that awful moment of truth when the
parent is trying to decide if the child is dumb or
a slow bloomer, the child should be given the
benefit of the doubt and be professionally tested
with the Rorschach or equivalent.

Time and patience are of the essence in deal-

ing with this problem, butterflies on rose petals.

The list of major contributors and achievers with
dyslexia is too long and varied to recite. Dyslexia
is resolved by growth, development, and accom-
modation. It cannot be overcome or hastened by
hard work, effort, or strength of character. It will
evolve that the neurological developmental lag will
correct itself. It cannot be forced or repaired. Once
a dyslexic overcomes the lag, he will rapidly catch
up and usually surpass others who have not had
the problem. Most dyslexics do quite well in the
long term. How much of this is an overcompen-
sation and correction is a guess.

With the problem identified, there are in-
numerable options and possibilities. The sky does
not fall and the sun will come up the next morn-
ing. There are many fine schools with remedial
courses and are geared to development rather than
achievement. To brand a dyslexic child as dumb
is unpardonable. To chastise a dyslexic child as
lazy, not trying, or possessing some other character
deficiency, is cruel. To attempt to shoehorn a
dyslexic into a fast-track academic school such as
Washington and Lee is stupid on the part of the
parent, not the child. Major effort should be ex-
erted to try and prevent the child from thinking
he is slow, dumb, lazy, retarded, etc. Such negative
self-appraisals will take more out of the child than
any amount of education can correct or repair, and
the scars are permanent.

One of the many pleasures I have enjoyed as
a Washington and Lee alumnus is that all effort
is accompanied by a ready Washington and Lee
reference and association. In the September 1989
Alumni Magazine under ‘‘Class Notes,’’ Dr. Harry
Lyons, ’22, is mentioned. Harry Lyons is my
friend; he has been my teacher, colleague, model,
mentor, and benefactor. Without being precise as
to age, he made me a professor in my late 30s.
With no close second, the two best teachers of my
academic experience were Harry Lyons and Dr.
L. J. Desha. As I write this, I reflect on both their
uniqueness and their similarities. Dressed with style
and taste, impressive in bearing and demeanor,
they exuded integrity, dignity, authority,
quintessential charm, and wit. Heady stuff for the
young and impressible.

They were both demanding with no spoon-
feeding. However, both Harry and Dr. Desha were
demanding in a modest way in that they only
demanded two things—your very best or better.
It was not within the manner of either to embar-
rass, haze, browbeat, or bully. There was a huge,
on top of the scale, sweat quotient or factor in both
of their classes. During my 40th reunion, I took
Rowena into the foyer of Washington Hall and
looked right into the eye of Dr. Desha’s portrait.
Instantly, I had sweaty palms. I now understand

Pavlov’s dogs. Dr. Desha’s kindness, charity, and
generosity were major factors in shaping my pro-
fessional career. From Harry and the Duke
(L.J.D.), I started to learn the truth of Nietzsche’s
“‘things that do not destroy me strengthen me.”’

I have always been and am a poor speller. To
spell cats with a c instead of a k takes conscious
effort. Math has always been easy and I did not
understand why it can be difficult. I have a pro-
digious memory and total recall. Total recall is like
playing the piano by ear. I could memorize a com-
plete history course from the lectures. Regretful-
ly, in the short term, I could not do the same with
organic chemistry. This eventually evolved to be
a blessing in disguise.

I enjoy reminding friends of verbatim conver-
sations of 20 years past, including the necktie they
wore.

I remember at freshman camp, Dean Gilliam
spoke on ‘‘smoothness.’’ He was not for it but
wanted to prepare us for rush week. Specifically,
he said we were soon to encounter the ‘“‘smoothest
articles’? we had ever met. In spite of Dean
Gilliam’s apt and ample description, I was still not
ready for the real thing or the enormity of the oc-
casion. In the presence of such ‘‘smoothness,’’ I
felt completely inadequate even if I dropped dead
or cut both wrists.

To attend Washington and Lee is ipso facto
to be blessed, but it is not lightning in a bottle.
I share with Bob that it is not the pristine, un-
qualified, happy, fun experience recited by the
**smooth articles.’’ To assume all problems and
adversities are solved by pumping them full of
WA&L sunshine is delusional and illusionary. Bullet
biting is not fun, and ashes are as bitter as gall.
For an impressionable, dependent dyslexic to get
involved in the smoothness thing is a guaranteed
disaster and a one-way ticket to hell.

Bob and I escaped magna cum laude.

WILLIAM J. LONGAN, ’41
Richmond, Va.

Correction

In the September «A
1989 issue of the Alumni
Magazine, the graduating ¢
senior in the far right of
this photograph was in-
correctly identified as
Eddie Yu. He is actually
Ryan Lee. The Alumni
Magazine regrets the
error.

   

 

1990
Alumni

Directory
Planned

 

 

The W&L Alumni Office has announced plans to publish a new alumni directory in 1990.
While the publisher has not yet been selected, all alumni should be aware that they will soon
be requested to furnish information essential to this project. The directory is intended to pro-
vide accurate residential and professional information on all living alumni.

Questionnaires requesting updated biographical information will be mailed to all alumni
by early 1990. A telephone verification phase will follow at which time alumni will be asked
if they wish to purchase a copy of the directory.

Alumni who do not return the questionnaire and who are unable to be reached by telephone
by the directory publisher will be listed in the directory with the address provided by the alumni
records at the time of the book’s publishing. Anyone who does not receive a questionnaire
or does not wish to appear in the directory should notify the Alumni Office in writing.

 

 

56  W&L

ee, ft —

oe ae. oe

Ree ees

o. £8

HONORING

THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES

1940 1945 1950 1955 1960
1965 Sy 1975 1980 1985
May 10, 11, 12

 

 

 

 

 

Thursday evening, May 10

Reunion Keynote Address

Guest Speaker, Mr. Ross V. Hersey,
*40—Motivational Humorist and Co-Chair of
the Class of 1940 Reunion Committee

Iriday, May 11

Reunion Seminars

“Hard Times: Current Issues in the Corrections
System”

“A Toast to Glasnost: New Developments in
Soviet-American Relations”

“Taking Turns: Dual-Career Couples and the
American Male”

“The New European Economic Community:
How Will It Affect Us?”

Picnic Luncheon

Cocktails with the Faculty: Honoring Gerard
M. Doyon, Professor of Art (1968-1990), and
Henry Eugene King, Professor of Psychology
(1977-1990), both of whom will retire at the
end of the 1989-90 session

Buffet Dinner

Reunion Dance featuring the Johnny McClenon
Big Band

Saturday, May 12
Annual Meeting of the Law School Association
in Lee Chapel

General Alumni Association Meeting in Lee
Chapel

Picnic Luncheon

Class Banquets and Parties

 

The Alumni Magazine of Non-Profit Org.
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY U.S. Postage

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Permit Nou
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

 

Homecoming was a time for catching up with old friends. A story on the fall reunion is on pages 24-25.

