The Alumni Magazine
of Washington ang

March/April

 

 

 

Celebrating the 50th

by Parke Rouse, ’37

N ext to family, college is the most personal of human
institutions. That’s why I’m looking forward to my 50th
reunion at my alma mater next May—celebrating the sur-
vival till now of 150 of us who entered Washington and
Lee University as freshmen in September 1933.

For months I’ve been getting letters from the brethren
about the big shebang in Lexington next May 7, 8, and 9.
We’re ordering funny hats alumni wear plus badges to
identify ourselves and our wives. We’ve reserved hotel
rooms, caterers, and entertainers. W&L’s alumni Office is
turning itself inside out for us.

Colleges make a big to-do about 50th reunions, and
with good reason. It comes when most alumni are in their
70s, when those careers we once anticipated are behind us.
We’ve gone about as far as we can go. After our 50th we’ll
return, if still spry, as members of the dwindling ‘‘Old
Guard,’’ which includes those who graduated more than 50
years ago. So to most alumni, the 25th and the 50th are
the big reunions.

Being an ardent alumnus, I’m on the committee. I’d say
no thanks, for I don’t like going to meetings, and ordinari-
ly I hate raising money. But somehow, Washington and
Lee has always seemed a special sort of place. I felt that
way when I went there from Newport News the first time,
to a student editors’ convention, representing my high
school. Its colonnade of old buildings, the magic of its
name, and especially its small size and human-scale campus
life—well, I’ve always admired them.

When I entered W&L in 1933, it had only 827 students,
including its law school. It’s still a small place where
students know each other and their professors well, though
it has grown to 1,700 students and recently gone coed. Lex-
ington itself is one of America’s picturesque towns,
overlaid with heroic names and encircled by mountains.
VMI next door adds to the town’s uniqueness, recalling
Stonewall Jackson and Matthew Maury, who taught there.
Remembered, too, are W&L’s first major benefactor,
George Washington, and its president after the Civil War,
Robert E. Lee.

Most Virginia colleges were small and hard to reach in
1933, when I entrained that September for Lexington. The
C&O took me to Staunton, where I caught a tiny local
train, the Virginia Creeper, that crept the 30 miles to Lex-
ington. I arrived at the ancient Lexington depot, now torn
down. It was a poor introduction to the town. Nowadays
everyone comes by interstate, which puts Lexington a half-
day away from Tidewater.

Since Lee’s day the college has attracted students from
a wide radius. Of the 827 students there when I entered,
only 185 came from Virginia, making the university at first
seem full of people from outer space. In the beginning, I
knew more Virginians at VMI than at W&L, for most of
VMI’s 600 or 700 cadets were Virginians. However, frater-
nity rushing and dormitory life soon overcame any tempta-

 

Parke Rouse is a contributing editor for the Newport News
Daily Press in which this column first appeared. It is reprinted by
permission.

 

tion I had to get homesick. Lexington gradually seemed
like home.

Though few Peninsula boys then went to W&L, it drew
many from northern and western Virginia. Washington
College, long before Lee came there, had been a
Presbyterian school, and it has kept much of its Scotch-
Irish character. Most of its early students came from those
Valley Ulstermen who pioneered the 18th- and 19th-century
migrations to the West. Many of their descendants—
Breckenridges, McCormicks, Houstons, Grahams, Alex-
anders, Glasgows—came back in my day to the onetime
frontier school of their grandfathers.

I entered W&L just after Lewis Powell had graduated
and embarked on the fine career that ended on the
Supreme Court. Not far behind me were others who would
become well-known: Edgar Shannon, Tom Wolfe, Linwood
Holton, Pat Robertson, William Brock, John Warner,
Roger Mudd, Paul Trible, Charlie McDowell, and John
Marsh among them. Most of them graduated from the law
school, which since the days of Dean Harry St. George
Tucker has been training W&L students for public
service—lawyers like John W. Davis and Newton D. Baker
and many governors, congressmen, and judges.

I remember how amused we undergraduates in the
1930s were at old grads who would come back to W&L for
homecoming, looking for their old dorm or fraternity

-rooms. How bent they were and how forced their jollity

seemed. And now I’m headed back for my own 50th
reunion.
Out of those 267 boys who entered with me in 1933,

- only about half graduated after four years. The Depression

discouraged many. Of the graduates, a half-dozen lost their
lives in World War II. Today the 267 starters are reduced
to about 150, scattered across the country and retired from
every conceivable business and profession.

True to the tradition of the Scotch-Irish, many of my
classmates have excelled in business. Andy Baur, a per-
sonable St. Louisan, has created a spectacular Missouri real
estate empire, Baur Properties. My onetime roommate, Ar-
chie Sproul of Staunton, set up an oil-exploration firm
named Virginia International and grew wealthy from In-
donesian oil. There are many other achievers among us.

Thanks to our good fortune—and also to our W&L
education—we hope next May to give our alma mater a
half-million dollars or more for undergraduate scholarships
and improved Alumni House facilities.

After that, you can look for me in the ‘“‘Old Guard.”’
Ugh.

 

 

To cee a

 

 

 

 

The Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee

Volume 62, Number 2, April 1987

 

JEFFERY G. HANNA, Editor

Joyce Harris, Assistant Editor
BRIAN D. SHAw, Assistant Editor
ANNE COULLING, Assistant Editor
ROBERT FuRE, Contributing Editor
PATRICK HINELY, Photographer

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Officers

STANLEY A. WALTON, ’62, ’65L, President
Chicago, IIl.

JOHN W. Fotsom, ’73, Vice President
Columbia, S.C.

JOHN Poynor, ’62, Treasurer
Birmingham, Ala.

RICHARD B. Sessoms, Secretary and Director
of Alumni Programs
Lexington, Va.

JAMES D. FARRAR JR., ’74, Assistant Secretary
Lexington, Va.

Directors

C. DuBosE AUSLEY, ’59
Tallahassee, Fla.

W. NaT BAKER, ’67
San Francisco, Calif.

DANIEL T. BALFouR, ’63, ’65L
Richmond, Va.

G. EDWARD CALVERT, 744
Lynchburg, Va.

C. HowarRD Capito, ’68
Greeneville, Tenn.

JOHN F. CARRERE JR., ’69
New Orleans, La.

JAMES J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L
Princeton, N.J.

M. LEE HALForRD Jr., 69
Dallas, Texas

JAMES M. JENNINGS JrR., 65, ’72L
Roanoke, Va.

JOHN D. KLINEDINsST, ’71, ’78L
San Diego, Calif.

ROBERT D. LARUE, ’72
Houston, Texas

WayNnE D. McGrew Jp., ’52
Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES A. MERIWETHER, ’70
Washington, D.C.

PAuL J. B. Murpny, ’49
McLean, Va.

THOMAS P. O’BRIEN Jr., ’58, ’60L
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHESTER T. SMITH Jr., ’53
Darien, Conn.

RICHARD R. WARREN, 757
New York, N.Y.

 

Type for this magazine was set using equipment provided through the
generosity of Mary Moody Northen, Inc., Galveston, Texas.

Published six times a year in January/February, March/April, May/June,
July/August, September/October, November/December by Washington
and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All com-
munications and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Third class postage paid at Cincin-
nati, Ohio 45214.

Copyright © 1987 Washington and Lee University

On the Inside

 

 

2 arts and SCIENCES

 

6 Powerful Work

 

11 A Good Sign

 

14 A Case of Piano-ism

 

19 W&L Gazette

 

24 The Generals’ Report

 

26 Alumni News

 

28 Class Notes

 

38 In Memoriam

 

40 And Furthermore

On the Cover: Students in a biology laboratory get a closer look
at their subject matter. The study of the sciences is being put under
a microscope these days. See the story on page 2. Photograph by
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73.

 

 

 

 

By H. Thomas Williams

 

 

 

 

The great tragedy of Science—
the slaying of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact.

Hanes quote reflects the objective side of science—to some
almost the definition of science. Ideas are tested by comparison
to facts: when they compare favorably, the ideas are tested fur-
ther; when they do not, the idea is dropped in favor of other ideas.
One may argue convincingly that science does not always work
this way. On the other hand, however, the closer science comes
to this ideal of objectivity, the better science it is. To whatever
degree a discipline is able to test its hypotheses against observa-
tions, that discipline is considered a science. Today’s social sciences
(psychology is a good example) achieve acceptance as true science
as they begin to submit themselves to the possibility of Huxley’s
‘‘sreat tragedy.”’

There is some evidence that the teaching of science, as a
discipline, is beginning to show signs of being a science. Further-
more, there is a need for the funding of science to follow in the
footsteps of the teaching discipline and react positively to facts
by realigning hypotheses. Evidence for these claims follows.

BEAUTIFUL HYPOTHESIS

The training of scientists is best done by the great ‘‘research
universities’’>—California Institute of Technology and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology are two good examples. The
present conception of such an institution is one that has formed
since World War II. Our nation’s best scientists were collected in-
to a few centers of research associated with educational institu-
tions and given a place to continue their research, wide oppor-
tunities for funding for equipment and support personnel, and the
chance to work with able young scientists who were to gain their
training as apprentices in the four-plus years of a Ph.D. program.

The undergraduate schools associated with these institutions
became magnets for bright teenagers, who were seeking careers
in science in post-war and later post-Sputnik America. The research
scientists, often Nobel laureates, served to give an aura to the
undergraduate science degrees (if not always direct attention to the
students). Furthermore, the abundant research funds spent on these
schools resulted in large amounts of spillover to the benefit of the
undergraduate science majors. The ‘‘best of all possible worlds’’
educational career for a would-be scientist read something like this:
B.S. in mathematics from Cornell, Ph.D. in astrophysics from
University of California at Berkeley.

UGLY FACT

The assumption that the research universities were the best place
to train for a science career went unchallenged for about 40 years.
After all, our country trained scientists that way, and ‘‘We’re
number one!’’ A few persons were nonetheless uncomfortable with

 

HM. Thomas Williams is associate dean of the College and professor of
physics at Washington and Lee. A native of Newport News, Va., he received
his bachelor’s and Ph.D. degrees in physics from the University of Virginia.
He has been a member of the W&L faculty since 1974. He was appointed
associate dean last July.

T. H. Huxley
Biogenesis to Abiogenesis

such an untested hypothesis, and in the best tradition of science
decided to look at the facts.

Oberlin College President S. Frederick Starr initiated the pro-
cess (the fact that Starr is trained as a historian reflects the truth
that science is a technique available to all, rather than a priesthood
of the initiated). He sought the support of presidents of Carleton,
Franklin and Marshall, Mount Holyoke, Reed, Swarthmore, and
Williams colleges. Together they sought data and colleagues, find-
ing both.

The results of the data search were published in a document—
‘“Educating America’s Scientists: The Role of the Research Col-
leges’’ (pay close attention to the last word). As colleagues, they
recruited presidents of undergraduate colleges, selected on the basis
of the colleges’ average entering mathematics SAT scores, number
of seniors winning National Science Foundation graduate
fellowships, and number of students going on for doctorates in
science. A variety of data was collected from 48 of the top 50 col-
leges (by these criteria), and presidents of 38 were represented at
the first meeting of the ‘‘Oberlin Group’’ in the summer of 1985.

The data these college presidents met to consider that June sur-
prised many, if not all of them. Examples:

vy 28 percent of freshmen at the 48 colleges plan to major in
the basic sciences or mathematics, compared to six percent
in all higher education;

y the fraction of students graduating from the 48 colleges with
science and mathematics degrees held at a steady 24 percent
from 1975 to 1983, while the nationwide percentage drop-
ped from 9.4 percent to 7.7 percent (a decrease of nearly
one-fifth); |

~ women form a majority of science graduates at the con-
ference colleges; the fraction of women graduating in science
remained constant nationwide, while increasing 30 percent
at the conference colleges.

Interpretation of these data is more difficult than their mere state-
ment. Should one desire to continue to apply a scientific
methodology to these considerations, extrapolations should be
avoided. Perhaps more data will help in the understanding of the
above:

~ one-quarter of the faculty at the 48 institutions are in the
sciences;

vy between one-third and one-half of science courses in these
colleges are taught to beginning students, and one-half of
these are taught by senior faculty;

~ more than SO percent of faculty time is spent in teaching,
compared to less than 30 percent of faculty time at the
research universities;

vw despite the fact that only 10 percent of faculty time is devoted
to research, college faculty publish at a rate comparable to
research university averages; the colleges’ science faculty pro-
duced in a recent five-year span 7,000 scientific articles (25
percent of these had student co-authors) and 350 books (eight
with student co-authors).

W&L

 

ee eR TED NR ET RR Tm a

Without extrapolation, these data suggest one reconsider the
hypothesis regarding the ‘‘best’’ science education, particularly at
the undergraduate level.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

One may fairly ask what all this has to do with Washington
and Lee. We were not invited to the Oberlin conference; we didn’t
measure up, by their criteria. In some ways, we are not the kind
of institution represented in that collection of colleges. The kind
of postgraduate education one associates with W&L students is
most often law school, medical school, and master’s in business
administration, rather than Ph.D. programs in chemistry, com-
puter science, etc. Should we interest ourselves at all with statistics
that concern the training of our nation’s science and mathematics
professionals?

YES!!

A resounding yes, and for many reasons.

Without any question, a college of liberal arts must include the
sciences and mathematics. Whether it be the primary mission of
the institution or not, a 20th-century education must include
science—for scientists as well as for theologians, lawyers, and
pianists.

Science at Washington and Lee (unbeknownst to many) is alive,
and very well. Small departments in biology, chemistry, computer
science, geology, mathematics, and physics produce a surprising
amount of teaching, scholarship, and inspired students.

In addition, the department of psychology includes studies ap-
propriately classified as pure science, adding significantly to our
faculty and student scientific output and reputation. In the last
two years, for example, the faculty in science and mathematics have
written two new textbooks, published 16 papers in refereed jour-
nals, delivered 29 papers at conferences and outside colloquia, and
submitted 11 proposals to outside funding agencies for research
support. In addition, three faculty members read and evaluated
grants for the National Science Foundation and the American
Chemical Society, and four members served as consultants to
technical organizations.

This impressive productivity was not accomplished at the ex-
pense of good teaching. On the contrary, the essence of good
teaching in science and mathematics at the college level is research.
Our science teachers simultaneously serve as paradigms of research
scientists, and involve and direct students in meaningful and
original research as part of their education. As a result:

v 105 students participated in the University-sponsored Robert
E. Lee Research Program during the last two years, carry-
ing out science research programs with faculty;

v each science department has had its students represented in
papers given at professional meetings, and in published work
in mathematics or science;

v The Washington and Lee Journal of Science, a new jour-
nal founded by and completely run by students, has begun
publishing technical articles by students and faculty;

v six graduating seniors have won highly competitive national
fellowships for graduate work—four sponsored by the
Fulbright Foundation and two by the National Science
Foundation;

v of the 121 students graduating with a science or mathematics
degree in the last two Junes, 19 have gained admission to
medical schools (more than 80 percent of our students who
apply gain medical school admission), and 31 have entered
graduate school in a field of science or mathematics.

Recent anecdotal evidence gives further cause for pride. Joseph
Goldstein, ’62, received the 1985 Nobel Prize in Medicine. Edward
Johnson, ’80, who used his Rhodes Scholarship to study physics
at University College, Oxford, was awarded a doctoral degree
(D.Phil.) last spring on the basis of the two (!) years of work done
there. Science majors graduated as valedictorians of their
Washington and Lee classes in 1976, 1977, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982,
and 1986.

If the fact that the liberal arts colleges are a superb place to
prepare for a career in science and mathematics has been a well-
kept secret, Washington and Lee’s excellence in this regard has
been even better shielded. This has been a happy circumstance for
those students who have ‘‘discovered’’ W&L in math and science,

 

but there are many who are steered away from applying to W&L
by ill-informed advisers. We have the faculty and facilities to pro-
vide the same high-quality personal education to many more science
majors than we now attract. Washington and Lee is currently tak-
ing steps to assure the continued excellence of our offerings in math
and science, and to inform the public about our abilities.

Careful readers of the Alumni Magazine will have noticed re-
cent articles that indicate the renewed attention to technical educa-
tion. In 1985 the Charles A. Dana Foundation awarded Washington
and Lee a grant of $290,000 to support three new junior tenure-
track appointments in engineering, mathematics, and computer
science (W&L, January/February 1986). The engineering position
has been filled, and searches are under way for the other two.

A gift of $334,000 was left to the University by the estate of
Frank H. Brady, ’32, for the purpose of creating an endowment
fund ‘‘to support and enrich the teaching of biology and chemistry”’
(W&L, May/June 1986). It will be used in particular for the pur-
pose of purchasing laboratory equipment.

A grant of $50,000 from the Jessie Ball duPont Fund was won
in 1986, for the purchase of equipment for science departments
(W&L, September/October 1986). Another grant for the purchase
of laboratory equipment came as a result of a proposal to the J.
Howard Pew Freedom Trust, which awarded Washington and Lee
$200,000 for this purpose (W&L, November/December 1986).

To help attract the attention and attendance of some of our
country’s most promising young scientists, Washington and Lee
has established two honor scholarships using a $240,000 commit-
ment from Ethyl Corporation of Richmond (W&L, November/
December 1986).

All of these gifts and grants will work toward the goal of main-
taining and strengthening our science and mathematics depart-
ments, but will by no means satisfy the needs that exist. In the
competition for top freshman enrollees, we are fighting the
diminishing demographics of what is coming to be known as the
‘“*baby bust’’ generation. As well, we are attempting to enter into
the market that has, up to now, been dominated by the research
universities. Both merit and need-based scholarship money will be
important in the quest to enhance our production of science majors.

Science equipment is expensive, and it is short-lived. Often a
single instrument carries a price tag of $100,000 or more—not a

state-of-the-art top-of-the-line research tool (whose price tags often
carry several more digits), but one chosen for the purposes of in-
struction and undergraduate student participatory research. It is
necessary to replace instruments frequently, more often because
of the dizzying advances in technical instrumentation than because
of the instrument’s failure to function. Unfortunately, one can no
better train ’80s scientists with ’70s equipment, than one could train
20th-century historians with 19th-century textbooks.

parting look at Huxley’s ‘‘great tragedy.’’ It represents
science as some thought it was and others thought it should be:
a hypothesis is formed on the basis of existing facts; new facts are
sought to test the hypothesis; if the hypothesis fails the test, it is
replaced with a better one.

Clean, objective, admirable—it’s too bad it doesn’t work that
way. Scientists, too, are human (their media image notwithstand-
ing). Old hypotheses die hard, sustained and supported by those
with heavy investments both intellectual and financial in them. New
facts need more than just the weight of their truth to displace old
ideas, even among scientists.

It is not surprising, then, that even in the light of the startling
data brought to light by the Oberlin group, our nation still looks
to the research universities to train our scientists. The federal, state,
and private funds necessary for this vital task are still heavily tilted
toward these institutions. The good news is that in December the
National Science Foundation announced a $9 million program aim-
ed at research in undergraduate science departments. This,
however, is still a long way from the $100 million commitment sug-
gested by the National Science Board, an advisory panel to the NSF.
It is even further from the funds necessary to satisfy the National
Science Board’s call for NSF to become ‘‘a significant presence’’
in the funding of undergraduate science education. The cost of
the new program represents only one-half of one percent of the
total National Science Foundation budget.

It will also not be an easy task to convince the public of
Washington and Lee’s excellence as a place for learning science
and for doing science. We are good, and we are getting better.
Much better. We are working to let the nation know of our ex-
cellence. The secret is out, but the work of convincing the world
of its truth and utility is just beginning.

 

 

YA

W&L

Powerful Work

 

Uncas McThenia’s Efforts Create Shelter for Lexington’s Homeless

 

66

Ana here is Vanna White in a
brand...new...FUR... COAT!!!’

The announcer’s exuberant introduction
elicits the predictable chorus of oohs and
aahs from the ‘‘Wheel of Fortune’’ studio
audience. In the small back room of the
frame house on Lexington’s Varner Lane a
man named Frank glances up at the TV set
for a quick inspection of Vanna and her
brand new fur coat.

At first glance, this would appear to be
the most ordinary of scenes. It is not.

Frank is a member of that growing
population of Americans now known as the
homeless. He is spending this snowy, cold
February night in the makeshift shelter that
has been established in the Lexington home
of Gladys Steele, a woman who has
ministered to the area’s homeless for many
years.

A year ago Frank would probably have
been on the streets. He would probably have
been spending these winter nights outside.
Maybe he would have been sleeping in the
woods near Stonewall Jackson Hospital. Or
maybe, with some luck, he might have been
staying in an abandoned house somewhere
in Rockbridge County.

But on this night he has arrived at Gladys
Steele’s house/shelter at dusk. He has eaten
a bowl of homemade chili. He has watched
TV game show contestants win fur coats and
brass beds. Later he will go upstairs to one
of the two rooms that are now lined with
cots. He will sleep on a mattress under a
blanket. Come morning he will leave, only
to return at dusk to Gladys’s house. Or
maybe he won’t return. Maybe Frank will
choose to spend tomorrow night elsewhere.

But at least he and Lexington’s other
homeless have a choice now. And for that
choice they have not only Gladys Steele to
thank, they can also thank Uncas McThenia.

The logical question for Andrew W. (Un-
cas) McThenia, ’58, ’63L, is this: How do
you get from geologist to lawyer to advocate
for the homeless?

McThenia plants his feet on the desk of
his Lewis Hall office and cocks his head to
one side as he frames his response. Momen-
tarily, he supplies the answer in that familiar,

By Jeffery G. Hanna

folksy West Virginia drawl. And the answer
he supplies is characteristically self-effacing:
‘*T just stumble on through life—like most
of us, I think.”’

It is mid-February and McThenia is bat-
tling the early stages of the flu. This has been
a long winter for him. When he has not been
teaching Washington and Lee law students
the intricacies of torts and contracts and
remedies, he has been chasing around Lex-
ington in search of blankets and bedclothes
for Gladys’s shelter. When he has not been
meeting with the planning commission or the
city council, he has been struggling to for-
mulate some genuinely revolutionary ideas
on the laws governing consent to health care.

‘‘Sometimes,’’ McThenia_ confesses,
‘“‘things move too fast for me.”’

Uncas McThenia came to Washington
and Lee from just across the Virginia state
line in Alderson, W.Va., home of the Federal
Correctional Institution for women where
Washington and Lee law students conduct
a legal assistance program. He brought his
unusual nickname with him. A high school
friend gave him the name because of the
resemblance between McThenia’s crewcut
and the hairstyle of the main Indian
character in the movie version of The Last
of the Mohicans. Crewcuts eventually disap-
peared; McThenia’s nickname did not.

As an undergraduate, McThenia played
on the first football team the University field-
ed after desubsidization. He was a dormitory
counselor and vice president of the senior
class. He majored in geology and had a
somewhat romantic vision of his future. ‘‘I
thought I’d be able to spend my time work-
ing outside—kind of the 19th-century notion
of riding around the West mapping and do-
ing field work,’’ he says.

In pursuit of that 19th-century notion,
McThenia went to Columbia University,
where he earned a master’s degree in geology
and got a somewhat less romantic idea of
what probably lay ahead. ‘‘I saw that the real
alternatives in that [geology] profession were
working for the big oil companies or doing
scientific research, which I didn’t think I’d
really be good at,’’ he says.

But then he came up with another, equal-
ly romantic notion. He would return to

Washington and Lee, get his law degree, and
combine the two careers—law and geology.

And that proved an effective combina-
tion, indeed. After a distinguished law school
career (magna cum laude, Order of the Coif,
editor of the Law Review), McThenia began
his legal career with the Washington, D.C.,
firm of Morison, Murphy, Clapp & Abrams.
He was later an associate with the Alexan-
dria, Va., firm of Boothe, Dudley, Koontz,
Blankenship & Stump before returning to
Lexington in 1967, this time as an assistant
professor of law.

Much of McThenia’s early legal work did
center on environmental issues, especially
water exploration cases, in which his geology
background served him well. He spent five
years on Virginia’s State Water Control
Board, where he was involved in efforts to
decrease pollutant loads at sewage treatment
plants in the state. For several years, he
taught a course on the legal approaches to
preserving the environment.

Maybe combining geology and law was
not such a romantic notion after all?

**Just stumbling on through life,’’ says
McThenia.

Those who know Uncas McThenia were
not the least bit surprised when he stepped
forward and took the lead role in directing
the attention of Lexington’s residents to the
plight of the area’s homeless. Behind that
somewhat folksy facade is a keen mind, an
incredibly deep commitment to act on his
beliefs, and a strong determination to serve
those in need. One longtime friend has sug-
gested that McThenia’s life, diverse and com-
plex though it seems at first glance, unfolds
rather neatly one chapter at a time.

The latest chapter began to unfold last
July along about the time Uncas and his
wife, Anne, decided to spend six weeks liv-
ing with the Sojourners, a Christian com-
munity that ministers in various ways to the
poor and the homeless in the crime-ridden
Southern Columbia Heights section of
Washington, D.C.

‘*That was,’’ says McThenia, ‘‘a very em-
powering experience for me. I think my ex-
perience there gave me the courage to start
thinking about this issue in Lexington.’’

W&L 7

 

That was in the heat of summer. Here it
is deep into one of the snowiest winters in
recent years, and McThenia pauses to con-
sider all that has been accomplished in the
past six months—months in which he and
what he terms ‘‘our unholy coalition’’ have
had more than their share of frustrations in
the efforts to give Frank and Lexington’s
other homeless a warm place to sleep at
night.

‘‘In some ways, this has been less
frustrating than some things that I’ve done,”’
McThenia says. ‘‘But it is very frustrating
because everybody looks to me for some kind
of leadership, and I don’t know what the hell
I’m doing.

‘You find yourself building political
coalitions that may be sort of thin. That is,
these coalitions stick together, but within and
among those coalitions there are very
disparate views of the whole problem of
homelessness. I think if you ever could push
deep with all those people in the political
coalitions you build, you could find a com-
mon core. But you never have time really to
dig deep.’’

Time. That has been one of McThenia’s
biggest enemies. When he first began to con-
sider this issue as it related to Lexington, it
was based on his concern that Lee Manor,
the former R. E. Lee Hotel that has been
converted into federally subsidized housing
for the elderly and disabled, was liable to go
into receivership. He feared the facility
would close, leaving its residents out in the
cold.

‘*T could see them ending up in those old
motels up and down Route 11,’’ he says.
“*I’ve visited people who’ve lived in those
motels from time to time—people who are
aged or disabled. And those are really
depressing places to be.’’

As it turned out, McThenia’s original
fears were unfounded. ‘‘The most valuable
asset on that building is the rent supplement
contract,’’ McThenia says. ‘‘Nobody is go-
ing to turn those folks out because that con-
tract is paying too much money.”’

But McThenia had other worries. ‘“‘I
began to see these homeless men around
town,’’ McThenia says. ‘‘And I thought to
myself, ‘These are really the outcasts.” And
I began asking myself, what can we learn
from them? How can we respond to that
question mark that God leaves us?’’

Those concerns and questions led to con-
versations with other members of the Lex-
ington community. Wherever McThenia
went, from the churches to the business com-
munity to the city government, there was
universal agreement that something ought to
be done. But what? And by whom? And,
most importantly, how soon?

8 W&L

The conversations continued. Summer
became fall. Winter was on its way. By Oc-
tober, a program had been established to
feed the homeless one hot meal a day at St.
Patrick’s Roman Catholic Church. The
larger problem of a shelter was still not
beyond the conversation stage.

McThenia and his coalition came up with
possible sites for a shelter but kept running
into roadblocks of one sort or another.

‘We would think we had a little piece of
the problem solved, and lo and behold the
rug would be pulled out from under us,”’’
recalls McThenia.

 

“‘The only way we can
be fully human, I think, is
to be totally vulnerable.
And that means to be sub-
ject to death and destruc-
tion and having the hell
kicked out of us. I also
think that is the only way
we can be open to grace.
That paradox is power
and powerlessness... ””

 

It was just before Christmas when Gladys
Steele, a°49-year-old widow and recovering
alcoholic, stepped forward. For the past
seven years, she had been helping out the
homeless as best she could, giving them a
meal or occasionally even a place to stay. In
December, she offered her house as a tem-
porary, emergency shelter.

Then it was up to McThenia to coor-
dinate a cadre of volunteers to prepare the
house. There was much to be done—painting
and plumbing and wiring. A new bathroom
was installed on the second floor. Cots were
placed in the two upstairs rooms. Volunteers
(who include Washington and Lee law
students) had to be recruited to provide
nightly supervision.

The shelter opened in mid-January—one
day before Lexington was buried beneath 27
inches of snow from a pair of storms.

‘‘We had seven people here just about
every night during the big snow,”’ Steele says.
‘‘That’s the most we’ve had at one time.
They come and they go.’’

| ie Uncas McThenia, the creation of a
shelter for the homeless in Lexington is far
more than a matter of collecting blankets and
setting up cots.

For McThenia, the deeper issue, the issue
that is at the root of the homeless crisis in
America, hinges on the concepts of power
and powerlessness.

He has been exploring these concepts for
the past few months in several different con-
texts. The plight of the homeless is one such
context; the rights of a dying patient are
another. Somehow McThenia is attempting
to pull these issues together as they relate to
the law.

‘*T am forced to see that issue of power
versus powerlessness every day in the law
because I do remedies,’’ says McThenia.
‘*We often say that there is no right without
remedy. I think the law is shaped by
remedies. And when the law is powerless, it
is often because it doesn’t know what to do
in terms of a remedy.’’

The problem, as McThenia sees it, in-
volves the failure of the law to admit that
there are times when it is powerless.

‘‘The only way we can be fully human,
I think, is to be totally vulnerable,’’ says
McThenia. ‘‘And that means to be subject
to death and destruction and having the hell
kicked out of us. I also think that is the on-
ly way we can be open to grace. That
paradox is power and powerlessness, and
there are some important issues about this
in the law that we as lawyers don’t like to
recognize.”’

The law seeks to create order and to be
in control. ‘‘But there are a lot of things that
the law can’t control, and I think sometimes
the law would be enhanced if it admitted its
own powerlessness,’’ says McThenia. ‘‘Ad-
mitting that powerlessness is a real reality test
for me in my own life. It takes the form of
being vulnerable with people who are ‘out-
side the gates,’ the homeless in this instance.
And I’m trying to make sense out of all
that.’’

One way he is attempting to make sense
out of it is by doing the work he is doing in
the Lexington community. Another way in-
volves those new ideas he is exploring on con-
sent to health care.

In 1982, McThenia was reporter-
draftsman of the Model Health Care Con-
sent Act adopted by the Uniform Law Com-
missioners. That was an attempt to provide
answers to the nettlesome question of who
can consent to health care in those cases

when patients are incapable of deciding for

themselves.

Now he is examining these same ques-
tions again from a different direction—a
direction tempered in large part by his recent
readings in theology. In fact, if you come
upon McThenia in his office on any given
day, he is as apt to be poring over the Book
of Leviticus or a theological treatise as a

 

 

  

Uncas McThenia has nothing but praise for the role Gladys Steele has played in providing her home as a shelter for Lexington’s homeless.

book on contracts or torts. During a sab-
batical leave two years ago, he was Scholar
in Residence at the Graduate Theological
Union in Berkeley, Calif., where his theories
began to take shape.

“One of the things that I’m concerned
about is that the law has really no good
answers when it comes to the questions of
who should decide about care for the ter-
minally ill,’’ says McThenia. ‘‘The decision
the law makes is a professional decision.
Maybe that’s all it can be.

“*Right now I’m pushing to see whether
there is another way. That is, is there a way
that those of us who have to decide can
somehow articulate our own vulnerability,
so that in this decision process we ought to
ensure that the dying patient’s life and state-
ment about life are determined by that dy-
ing patient and not by our needs to see him
or her quit suffering or by our own needs to
quit suffering.

‘Too often we come to this problem
thinking that it is easy to make a decision
about myself and it’s easy to make a deci-
sion about you—we are that simple ‘self’ and

‘other.’ I’m worried that we make those deci-
sions all too easily without assuming that not
only do we have obligations to that dying pa-
tient, but, I think, that dying patient has an
obligation to us. I’m not sure how the law
can address that. Most people wouldn’t even
agree the dying patient has an obligation to
us.”’

McThenia puts the matter this way: when
a person is fully alive, we naturally assume
that person is obligated to the rest of us as
a member of our community. But when
someone is dying, we no longer assume that
person has such an obligation. ‘‘Why should
that be so?’’ wonders McThenia. ‘‘I think
that the dying patient still has some obliga-
tion, some responsibility to us, but I don’t
quite know what that is.

**Dying is powerlessness in some ways.
Dying patients may be powerless to talk, for
instance. But I think they are very powerful.
If you bring a comatose person into a room
on a Stretcher, that will have more effect on
the people in that room than anything that
we can say. We assume that person is
powerless, that he or she has no power over

us and no obligation to us. I think the per-
son has a lot of power over us.”’

McThenia is uncertain where these ideas
will take him. He has now written the second
draft of an article on the subject, and he
presented that paper at a conference in
February in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was one of
three lawyers invited to make presentations
at the meeting sponsored by the Parkridge
Center, an institute for the study of ‘‘faith,
health and ethics.’’

As his colleagues at Washington and Lee
and the participants at the Parkridge
Center’s conference have responded to what
he has written, McThenia’s ideas have begun
to take more shape now. But he still finds
himself unable fully to articulate his position
at this stage. That chapter is still unfolding.

The issue Of power and powerlessness as
it applies to the homeless is clearer. In a ser-
mon that he delivered at Lexington’s Trini-
ty United Methodist Church last October,
McThenia put the matter succinctly when he
said: ‘‘To be homeless is to be powerless in
this society.”’

W&L 9

Photo by Scott Ferrell, ’87

 

 

A home, McThenia told the Trinity con-
gregation, is more than a place to be out of
the weather or a place of safety. ‘‘It is a way
to be. A way to achieve some status and
some human dignity. Most of us would say
it is nonsensical to describe a home as a mail
drop, or as a place to leave your belongings,
but so many homeless people never receive
rightfully earned social security payments
simply because they don’t have a place to
receive mail. Most homeless people have no
possessions other than what they can carry
because they have no place to leave extra
clothes, pictures of family and loved ones—
those things that remind us of our connec-
tion with the larger world of family and
friends.”’

Certainly the ‘‘problem’’ of homelessness
in Lexington, Va., purely on a statistical
basis at least, pales in comparison with the
scope of the problem throughout the nation.
Estimates on the number of homeless range
anywhere from 350,000 to 3 million; there
may be no more than a dozen or so homeless
in Lexington. According to Gladys Steele,
the population has been cut almost in half
during the past two years because of the
deaths of many of the older men who once
wandered the city’s streets—in the days
before they were called homeless.

‘‘Part of the irony,’’ says McThenia, ‘“‘is
that a lot of people for a long time have tried
to find some kind of reentry into the com-
munity for alcoholics around here. But as
long as you called them drunks, nobody paid
any attention. Suddenly we call these same
folks ‘homeless’ and begin to pay more at-
tention. It’s very ironic.’’

Just as the raw statistics vary widely so
do the theories behind the apparently sud-
den increase in the number of homeless peo-
ple. But the experts do agree that the cur-
rent homeless population differs in several

10 W&L

 

“I’m never very comfortable living in an uncertain world,’’ says Uncas McThenia. ‘‘That may be the reason I’m a lawyer. I don’t know.

important ways from what had traditional-
ly been the case. The homeless are younger
now with an average age in the mid-30s, and
about 20 percent are families, usually young
women with children.

The big difference with the current
phenomenon, McThenia contends, is that so
many people have fallen out of the middle
class and become homeless. That serves to
underscore the issue of vulnerability.

‘‘We are all vulnerable,’’ says McThenia.
‘‘And because of that, we’re scared. We’re
scared of homeless people because, but for
the grace of God, or whatever, there go I.”’

McThenia was not surprised that so many
members of the Lexington community of-
fered to lend a hand to his efforts. But those
efforts have only scratched the surface. And
the next step is much more difficult.

‘‘The real crunch will come when we stop
saying we want to ‘help’ these homeless peo-
ple,’’ says McThenia. ‘‘The real crunch will
be when we start trying to ‘empower’ the
homeless. That is what will put strains on our
coalitions.

‘‘As a people, we’re very good about
helping, about doling out some benevolence.
But if the real issue gets to where I think the
issue has to get, the question of empower-
ment, then that’s going to cause some pain.

‘*For all of us who have power, our in-
stincts are to keep others powerless. Not
because we want to keep somebody down,
but we delude ourselves into believing that
by being benevolent we can avoid some pret-
ty ugly consequences of doing just that, of
stopping there. To talk about empowering
—that’s a two-way street. It means I’ve got
to give up some power in order to give you
power. It’s the Old Testament notion, a
recognition that we are all homeless,’’ says
McThenia.

At this point, he refers to a passage in

 

 

Leviticus: ‘‘The stranger who sojourns with
you shall be to you as the native among you,
and you shall love him as yourself; for you
were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the
Lord your God.”’

Adds McThenia: ‘‘It is clear to me that
this is what we’re called by God to do. And
that’s an issue that I think we can’t crack
very well in our society.’’

Gus: shelter will close March 31. That
is when the city’s emergency declaration,
which allows the shelter to operate without
changes in zoning laws, expires.

That, of course, means that Uncas
McThenia and his ‘‘unholy coalition’’ will
have to start looking all over again for a
more permanent solution.

In the meantime, perhaps, there will be
time for the members of that coalition to
‘push deep’”’ and find the common ground
McThenia hopes they can find.

“‘I1’m a pretty conservative person,’’
McThenia says. ‘‘I think that I have some
radical differences in opinion with the more
liberal people in this coalition on some issues
that are below the surface. I think if we really
pushed deep, we’d find a common
understanding.

‘‘There is another kind of vulnerability.
It’s uncertainty. I’m never very comfortable
living in an uncertain world. That may be the
reason I’m a lawyer. I don’t know. But I
think none of us are comfortable with that.
We all want order. These political coalitions
that we’ve built are very disordered.

“If we could just keep pushing at those
coalitions...’’

Maybe that will come with time. For
now, though, it is enough that Frank and
Lexington’s other homeless can call Gladys’s
house their home—if only for one night at
a time.

Photos by Scott Ferrell, ’87

A Good Sign

 

Joel Bassett, ’84, Goes to Unusual Lengths to Communicate with A Friend

 

 

W..e began as a game of hide-and-seek
on a Japanese commuter train has blossom-
ed into a remarkable story that features Joel
Bassett, ’84, in the central role.

An East Asian studies major, Bassett was
the first Washington and Lee student to take
advantage of the University’s exchange pro-
gram with Kansai University of Foreign
Studies when that program was established
three years ago with the school in Kyoto.

Bassett left W&L in January 1984 and
was scheduled to spend six months in
residence at Kansai Gaidai, returning in time
to receive his degree at commencement ex-
ercises in May. He never made it back for

 

Last fall during a sabbatical leave, Washington
and Lee history professor Roger Jeans visited with
his former student Joel Bassett in Japan. This story
is based on a tape-recorded interview that Jeans
conducted with Bassett.

Young Jun-Chan is signing that his friend Joel Bassett, ’84, is a fox.

commencement and received permission to
get his degree in absentia.

Those original six months have stretch-
ed into three years now. And Bassett is still
in Japan. He has returned to the States for
only a brief visit during the Christmas
holidays of 1985.

Bassett has supported himself by giving
English lessons. He teaches not only private
lessons but also works part time as an
English instructor and translator for a
Japanese business. And in the meantime, he
has pursued his own study of Japanese.

His continued presence in Japan
represents a rather unusual story in and of
itself. But the real saga began when Bassett
was riding a train on his way to do some
mountain hiking. As he rode along, Bassett
noticed a young Japanese boy staring at him.

‘*It was sort of like he was playing hide-
and-seek,’’ recalls Bassett. ‘‘I think he

wanted some attention and was looking at
me because I was a foreigner.’’

It was not until the train pulled into a sta-
tion and the boy disembarked that Bassett
noticed that his new friend was wearing hear-
ing aids in both ears. As he would soon
discover, 10-year-old Jun-Chan is deaf.

Over the next several weeks, Bassett saw
Jun-Chan daily on his afternoon train com-
mute to Osaka. Jun-Chan was returning
home from his day at the Sakai School for
the Deaf; Bassett was on his way to work in
Osaka. Since Bassett changed trains at the
station where Jun-Chan got off, they would
routinely spend some time together between
trains and their relationship grew gradual-
ly, beginning with the games of hide-and-
seek and tag and progressing to the point that
the two were communicating through a com-
bination of simple salutes and facial
expressions.

W&L iil

Jun-Chan on
the train to
his school.

But Bassett was not satisfied. He wanted
more. As a foreigner who had found himself
constantly struggling to communicate with
those around him from the day he arrived
in Japan, Bassett knew firsthand the frustra-
tion of not being fully understood and not
fully understanding.

It was, no doubt, largely because of his
own experiences that Bassett developed a
strong affinity for the deaf youngster whose
ability to communicate was as limited
because of the disability as Bassett’s was
because of the language barrier. Bassett
wanted to bridge the gap that existed by find-
ing a way to converse meaningfully with
Jun-Chan.

He began his quest by asking some of his
Japanese acquaintances where he might go
to learn sign language. With their help,
Bassett soon found himself a member of a
sign language ‘‘circle’’—a club of sorts where
the techniques of signing were studied in in-
formal weekly sessions.

‘‘Japanese housewives are not encourag-
ed to work outside the home. Consequently
many of them have a good deal of free time,
and the sign language circles, or clubs, are
heavily populated with middle-aged
housewives,’’ explains Bassett.

As a young (comparatively, at least)
foreigner, Bassett’s very presence at such a
circle was a curiosity. But one of the circle
members did agree to tutor Bassett in the

12) W&L

basics of sign language. ‘‘I went to her home
once a week, and she would work with me,”’
Bassett says. ‘‘I think she was very hesitant
at first because I was a foreigner, but once
we began talking, she loosened up.’’

Bassett was a quick study. And he put his
early lessons to work immediately on his dai-
ly train rides. That permitted his conversa-
tions with Jun-Chan to go slightly beyond
the rudimentary pleasantries of ‘‘Hello’’ and
‘‘How are you?”’ that the two had worked
out.

But in some ways that first step only add-
ed to Bassett’s sense of frustration.

‘*As I had discovered, Jun-Chan was at-
tending a school for the deaf. Consequent-
ly, he had been exposed to sign language for
some time,’’ Bassett says. ‘‘He would start
firing away at me, and I’d be completely lost
because I would understand only one or two
words of a complete sentence. That was
almost as frustrating as having no com-
munication. Ours were very one-sided con-
versations.”’

After several months of progressing
much more slowly than he wished, Bassett
enrolled in classes at the ‘‘deaf person’s
legion,’’ an association that trains inter-
preters in sign language.

‘‘When I first began taking the class I was
at the level of an advanced beginner. But
they really didn’t have such a classification,
so I went straight into an intermediate,’’ he

 

recalls. ‘‘I found myself in a class with
several of the women whom I had met
through the sign language circle. I’m sure
they were shocked when I walked in since I
had had only seven and a half months of
study while they had been studying for
years.”’

Bassett’s participation in the class was
featured in a Japanese newspaper story,
which told of his befriending the young
Japanese boy and explained how his own ex-
periences as an outsider had influenced his
desire to learn sign language. The story ap-
peared under the headline: ‘‘Young
American takes up challenge of sign
language.”’

challenge it most surely has been.
Japanese sign language, Bassett explains,
bears absolutely no relation to American sign
language—not that Bassett had any ex-
perience with American sign language either.
It was all an entirely new world for him.

‘‘Many people believe that sign language
is the same all over the world, but that is
simply not the case,’’ Bassett says. ‘‘Each
country has its own system with its own
history.

‘‘There is an international alphabet, but
it’s only an alphabet. If you’re following
your own language’s sentence structure and
grammar structure, then even if you do have
the same methods for signing individual let-

 

ters, the meaning of what you’re trying to
communicate is not really going to get
through.”’

Although Bassett entered the sign
language study cold, he approached this new
challenge in much the same manner that he
had originally approached his study of the
Japanese language.

‘*The trick I have used is that even if I
don’t understand what’s going on around
me, I still must force myself to have discourse
with the people,’’ he says. ‘‘When I was
learning spoken Japanese, even though I
didn’t understand what was going on in a
whole evening’s worth of conversations, I
would continue to go out with these people
and to try to converse with them. When we
would go out together, to films or whatever,
I would usually be the wallflower, sitting and
absorbing things and occasionally con-
tributing a word or two to the conversation
when something came along that I recogniz-
ed.”’

O.. important component of Bassett’s
Japanese experience has been his participa-
tion on a cycling team. None of his team-
mates speaks English. That suits Bassett fine.
‘*! wanted it just that way because it’s a
wonderful way to learn the language,’’ he
says. ‘“You don’t have any choice if you
want to communicate with your teammates.
You have to learn what they’re saying and
be able to talk with them.”’

By employing the same technique in his
study of sign language, Bassett believes he
progressed more rapidly than others in his
class.

‘‘Where many of the other students—
most of whom were housewives—seldom put
what they were learning in the classroom to
practical use, I was spending a lot of time
going out and meeting deaf people and us-
ing what I had learned,’’ he says.

“‘Each individual has a particular way of
signing, just as people have particular ways
of expressing themselves through spoken
language. It is not so much a matter of learn-
ing a set standard of signs as being flexible
and able to adapt to the various ways in
which people express themselves.”’

In the process Bassett developed a circle
of deaf Japanese friends and has learned a
great deal about their lives. For instance, he
notes that there is a rigid dichotomy between
the deaf and hearing communities in Japan.
Too, he has discovered that the Japanese are
primarily ‘‘mainstreaming’’ their deaf
students—that is, placing them in the same
classrooms with hearing students.

‘That is a very popular concept in
America, too, but the difference is that in
Japan they do not have the backup services,”’

 

says Bassett. ‘‘They don’t have interpreters
for the students, and they end up putting
them in a lecture hall with all the other
students. Half of them don’t have a lip-
reading ability. I’ve met some people who
have come out of the mainstreaming ex-
perience, and it’s clear that they have to do
two or three times the amount of work just
to keep up.”’

Bassett has discovered that his work in
sign language has made a big difference in
his overall ability in Japanese.

‘**Because I’m having to translate from
spoken Japanese into Japanese sign
language, it helps my ability to understand
in the spoken Japanese before I turn that into
the sign language,’’ he explains.

Throughout his experiences, Bassett has
developed a deeper appreciation for the
languages he uses, in whatever form.

Sassi

**It’s very funny—when you get comfor-
table expressing yourself in another
language, you begin to learn a great deal
about your own language. You learn about
its limitations, its strengths, and its
weaknesses,’” he says.

‘*When I talk to my Japanese friends, I
find that theirs is a much more intimate
language, more capable of expressing emo-
tion. That’s not something you can ap-
preciate when you’re studying from the
books. It’s something you acquire very
gradually when you’re using the language
constantly.’’

Bassett remembers spending one evening
with his deaf Japanese friends. It was not un-
til the evening was over that he realized he
had not spoken a word.

“It was a very satisfying feeling,’’ he
says. ‘“There are so many things that do not
get across when you’re translating from
Japanese to English. I tend to notice that
more now because of the sign language.’’

  
   

His experience with Japanese sign
language has caused Bassett to become in-
terested in learning American sign language
and, perhaps, to put the two together.

“*T can see the need for devising a way
for the Japanese deaf community to converse
with the American deaf community,”’ says
Bassett.

**] think that would be a valuable service,
just as there are interpretation services that
allow Japanese and American people to com-
municate in spoken language.’’

To some extent, Bassett has already
bridged that gap. Asked to give a lecture on
American life to a Japanese audience, half
of whom were deaf, Bassett not only gave
the lecture in Japanese but he did his own
signing during the talk.

‘When I hear translations, I am aware
that the nuances sometimes get lost. When
I agreed to give the lecture, I was told I
would have to have two translators—one to
take my English into Japanese, another to
take the Japanese into Japanese sign
language. I could just see how mangled that
might have become,”’ says Bassett. ‘‘So I did
it all myself. It was both a great challenge
and a satisfying feeling.’’

J oel Bassett is not quite certain where that
hide-and-seek game will eventually take him.
He is fast friends with Jun-Chan now, and
that was his immediate goal when he began
his study of sign language.

But the experience has made him more
keenly aware of the importance of language
and the need to break down barriers that ex-
ist. He may continue to pursue his studies
by returning to the States and enrolling at
Washington, D.C.’s Gallaudet University,
the nation’s college for the deaf. Gallaudet
only last year began enrolling hearing
students in its undergraduate programs,
although hearing students had already been
on the Gallaudet campus as graduate
students. If he does attend Gallaudet, Bassett
would hope to put his unusual combination
of language skills (both verbal and non-
verbal) together in some way.

Not long ago Bassett met a deaf
Taiwanese man who is his age. The man is
studying to be a dental technician and hopes
to go to Gallaudet to join his younger deaf
brother.

‘““We converse in Japanese sign
language,’’ says Bassett. ‘‘He now is trying
to study written English and needs to write
some letters to America and procure a visa.
I’ll help him with those, and I have a feeling
we'll be traveling to America together in June
and perhaps entering Gallaudet together.’’

The next chapter of Joel Bassett’s story
is waiting to be written.

W&L 13

 

    

14

8, ‘[jaddaq 11095 XQ 0104d

 

 

lassic Case
ot
Piano-ism

Rob Vienneau, *87, Finds
Comfort at the Keyboard

By Anne Coulling

a en minutes before the concert was to begin, the ushers ran out
of programs.

Hundreds of programs had been printed, and yet the supply
was already depleted. As the ushers scrambled about, trying to find
a spare program or two, the crowd kept streaming through the Lee
Chapel doors.

They came from every segment of the Lexington community—
Washington and Lee professors, administrators, and staff
members, many accompanied by their entire families; students
representing virtually every faction on the campus; uniformed VMI
cadets; and dozens and dozens of Lexington townspeople. They
squeezed into the pews until scarcely a space was left; even the
balcony was packed. It was not standing room only, but almost.

At last the lights dimmed and a young man strode onto the
stage. Applause swelled to the ceiling. The young man bowed slight-
ly, almost bashfully, seated himself at the Steinway Grand, and
began to play.

Beethoven, Mozart, Rachmaninoff. The cascading notes of
Chopin’s ‘‘Winter Wind.’’ In the audience, heads bobbed to the
music. And with the last chords of Cesar Franck still hanging in
the air, the crowd surged to its feet and stood for several minutes,
applauding the performance.

The young man’s face lit up with a smile. Programs or no pro-
grams, it had been yet another triumphant evening for Robert Allen
Vienneau, Washington and Lee Class of 1987.

W&L 15

 

Ons a few weeks before he presented that
recital in early February, Rob Vienneau had
stood before another crowd in Lee Chapel
on a very different occasion—his induction
into Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
honorary fraternity recognizing those
students who are leaders on the Washington
and Lee campus.

The list of Vienneau’s extracurricular ac-
tivities, one measure of his qualifications for
ODK, is lengthy indeed: he is the accom-
panist for the Glee Club, the University
Chorus, and Southern Comfort; he is a
member of the hockey club, the Concert
Guild, Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity,
and Mu Beta Psi, the honor fraternity for
music students; he was the accompanist for
the University Theatre’s production of The
Fantastiks a few years ago. And he boasts
a 3.1 grade-point average to boot.

But Rob Vienneau is probably best
known around Washington and Lee as a
pianist of unusual ability. He has given a
recital in Lee Chapel every year since he was
a freshman. In addition, he has played for
gatherings of the Board of Trustees, for
various guests of the University, and for
alumni groups all over the country.

Mention Rob Vienneau’s name, and you
are likely to hear adjectives such as
‘‘phenomenal’’ and ‘‘remarkable’’ used to
describe his talent. One member of the
University’s music division says, ‘‘He’s the
best undergraduate pianist I’ve every en-
countered. I’ve never heard anybody play
any better.’’ Another adds: ‘‘We’ve never
had a pianist of this caliber here. From what
everyone tells me, there just has never been
a Rob Vienneau.’’

Just who is this Rob Vienneau? And
what is he doing majoring in economics at
a small liberal arts college rather than
devoting all his time to the study of music
in a conservatory?

The answer, he says, is ‘‘kind of a long
story.”’

A; the age of about three and a half, Rob
Vienneau began taking music lessons in his
hometown of Montreal, Canada. ‘‘My mom
and dad were really hell-bent on getting me
piano lessons,’’ Vienneau recalls. ‘‘My
father’s side of the family is very musical,
but they lived on a farm and they didn’t have
a chance to be around any musical in-
struments.’’ Vienneau flashes a wry smile.
‘‘T guess my parents just had that longing
desire to have a musician as a son.”’

At first, it seemed that dream might not
become a reality, for the Vienneaus had a
difficult time finding a teacher who was will-
ing to give piano lessons to a three-year-old.
‘‘My mom asked a bunch of ladies, and they
146 W&L

all said, ‘No way. We’re not going to
babysit,’ ’’ Vienneau explains.

Finally they were able to locate a willing
instructor, and Rob Vienneau’s piano career
began. Or rather, it took off.

‘I guess I progressed pretty fast,’’ he
confesses. To say the least. When Vienneau
took his first music exam at Montreal’s
University of McGill, he received the highest
grade of any student. The other pupils were
nine or 10 years old; he was four. ‘‘It freak-
ed a lot of people out,’’ he remembers.

When he was seven, his piano teacher
recommended that he audition at the Quebec
Conservatory of Music in Montreal. The
conservatory was primarily for high school
students, but despite his age Vienneau was
accepted under scholarship and was assign-
ed to study with Irving Heller, the head of
the piano department.

Heller is a man of considerable distinc-
tion, having served on the jury of several in-
ternational piano competitions, including the
Moscow Tchaikovsky Competition. He was
also, Vienneau remembers, ‘‘a pretty crazy
guy. It was fun growing up with him.”’ Heller
sometimes went to extraordinary lengths to
drill musical knowledge into his young pupil.
‘‘T remember once I had played this thing
wrong, and he took me over to the edge of
the window—we were maybe on the fourth
floor—and he said, ‘If you do that one more
time, you’re going down.’

‘“You say that to a nine-year-old kid, and
you really freak him out. But after that I did
it right.”’

Early on, Vienneau usually spent three
days a week at elementary school and two
at the conservatory. That changed once he
got to high school. Then he spent most days
in class and went to the conservatory
primarily during the weekends. ‘‘A lot of
people say that sending a kid to a conser-
vatory like that is corrupting the person’s
education,’’ Vienneau says. ‘‘But really all
the music theory and all the music history
develop your mind, your mathematical skills.
I think that I’ve got the same footing at W&L
that anybody else has.”’

When he wasn’t taking lessons at the con-
servatory, Vienneau was practicing—an
average of three hours of practice a day dur-
ing elementary school, four hours a day dur-
ing high school. Music became an integral
part of his life.

He never really resented being pushed
toward music at such an early age. Nor was
he particularly bothered by the long hours
he was forced to spend at the piano. “‘I
guess, like every kid, I went through that
period when you’re practicing the piano and
you really want to go out and play with the
boys. But then, when you hit puberty, it

helps a lot. You’ve got something to take out
all that anxiety.”’

Naturally, there were times when Vien-
neau thought he was not quite like his peers.
“You do grow up feeling just a little dif-
ferent, when all the other kids are listening
to the garbage on the radio, and you’re not
really in tune with it. You’re thinking about
Beethoven’s First Concerto for Piano, and
all your friends are listening to Def
Leppard—it does make you feel a little
weird.”’

Vienneau’s parents were determined,
however, that their son would be like other
children. To that end his father insisted that
Rob play ice hockey. And, as it turns out,
hockey is the reason he ended up at a small
liberal arts college, instead of a conservatory.
Or, to be precise, why he came to
Washington and Lee instead of going to
Juilliard, the renowned New York con-
servatory.

Vienneau had always assumed he would
continue his studies at Juilliard after he
finished high school. But a week before his
scheduled admissions audition at Juilliard,
he broke his arm—playing hockey. No audi-
tion; no Juilliard. ‘‘That kind of put Juilliard
on the back burner,’’ he explains. ‘‘So I said,
‘I’ve got to go someplace next year.’ I had
heard about Washington and Lee when
recruiters came to my high school, so I decid-
ed to try it out.’’ He came to Lexington, met
members of the music faculty, and ‘‘got real-
ly turned on by the idea of coming here,”’
so the following fall he enrolled.

‘‘The first year I felt a little out of place,”’
Vienneau remembers. ‘‘I didn’t have the
Duckheads yet; I didn’t have the Docksiders;
I wasn’t sure I belonged here.’’ So in the
spring term of his freshman year, he tried
Juilliard again.

Although he had full use of both arms
this time, his audition resulted in mixed
reviews. Two members of the four-judge
panel awarded him very high marks; the
other two gave him ‘‘resounding Ds.”’
Despite that split decision, he was accepted
at Juilliard but was not granted any finan-
cial aid. He decided to stay at Washington
and Lee.

‘‘Then,’’ he says, ‘‘I fell in love with the
place. I really love W&L. I don’t have to
compete against anybody. I can just learn the
music and enjoy it and play it in front of peo-
ple who I hope enjoy it. I think I’m develop-
ing myself even better here than I would have
at Juilliard.’’

66

i first time he came in to play for
me, when he sat down it was just a revela-
tion. It was so much more than I expected,
and I realized immediately that his was a very

 

special talent. His technical
facility amazes everyone. I think
the first piece he played was
Liszt’s ‘La Campanella.’ Rob is
especially good at Liszt, and I
remember thinking, ‘This is like
the young Liszt playing.’ Rob
has that same temperament,
that same energy. When he per-
forms, you sense a strong
underlying current, which im-
mediately reaches out and grabs
you.”’

That is how Timothy
Gaylard, instructor of music at
W&L, remembers his introduc-
tion to Rob Vienneau. And
although most people might not
think to compare him to a
young Franz Liszt, almost
everyone who hears Vienneau
for the first time is struck by his
‘very special talent.”’

*“Rob has a charisma,”’
Gaylard explains. ‘‘There is
something special about him
and an audience. He has a
magnetic quality and a wonder-
ful rapport with the people who
come to hear him. He is really
able to communicate with
them.”’

Perhaps that explains how
Rob Vienneau has become a
sort of unofficial entertainer for
the University. In addition to ~~
his duties as accompanist for the Universi-
ty’s choral groups and his annual recitals,
Vienneau is routinely asked to perform at all
kinds of gatherings. When the choral groups
are on tour, he frequently gives solo perfor-
mances between sets.

And his playing almost invariably meets
with enthusiastic approval. Indeed, ‘‘en-
thusiastic’’ scarcely conveys the intensity of
the reception he has received on occasion.

Gordon P. Spice, associate professor of
music and director of the University’s choral
groups, recalls one memorable performance
at Santa Catalina, a Catholic girls’ school
that the Glee Club visited during its 1985
California tour. At one point during the pro-
gram, Vienneau took the stage by himself.

“*The audience of teen-age girls sat in rapt
attention,’’ Spice says. ‘‘Afterward, when he
stood up, there were shrieks at an
unbelievable decibel level. You would have
thought it was a rock concert and David
Bowie had just taken some of his clothes off.
Later he was mobbed by autograph-seekers.
A teen-age idol was created on the spot.”’

When he is reminded of that particular-
ly unforgettable performance, Vienneau

 

He,

   

n-
cert one girl even threw her underwear at
me.”’

How does it feel to stand center stage
before a crowd of shrieking teen-agers? Or,
for that matter, a cheering crowd of pro-
fessors and fellow students?

‘*It feels really good,’’ Vienneau admits.
“*It feels great. You get this great high. But
then the next day you realize people aren’t
getting up on their feet clapping when you’re
walking down the street. It’s great for the
couple of minutes that it happens, but it
doesn’t last long. You get put in your place
the next minute by someone like your mom,
who says, ‘I’ve heard you play the Beethoven
better in practice.” Somebody will bring you
down a few notches.

‘*Besides,’’ he adds, ‘‘when you’re play-
ing you’re so involved in what you’re doing
that you’re in a daze, and you don’t pay that
much attention to the audience. The au-
dience adds electricity—it makes you nervous
and it makes you play much better—but at
the same time you’re not aware of the peo-
ple out there. When you get up from play-
ing a piece of music you’re so emotionally

et

smiles. ‘‘Yeah. That was wild. After the co

drained from it you don’t real-
ly notice anything else.
‘‘When you see somebody
on stage you tend to think, ‘Oh
wow, his ego must be pumped.

I know how I’d feel.’ But once
_ you’ve done something like that
2 yourself it’s a different feeling,
and your ego doesn’t move up
that high. Or, if it does, it’ll get
brought down the very next
day.’’

It is primarily the opportuni-
ty he has to perform, and to
perform often, that Vienneau
counts as a genuine advantage
that Washington and Lee af-
fords him over, say, Juilliard or
Eastman.

**T think the audience really
appreciates what I do,”’ he says.
‘‘1’d rather play for people
around here than play for a
stuffy audience in New York
City. In New York there are so
many great pianists—13-year-
olds who can play the
‘Hungarian Rhapsody’ in two
minutes. Where would you be?
You’d be nowhere. You’d be
lost.’

That is why Vienneau has
always been willing to play for
almost anyone who asked.
‘‘When I first heard about
Rob,’’ Gordon Spice recalls, ‘‘I
thought, ‘Well, here’s this serious-minded
kid.’ I was so surprised that someone who
was that good as a classical pianist wanted
to be the Southern Comfort accompanist, to
play things like the Beach Boys or Elvis. And
he’s turned out to be one of the leaders of
the group.

‘‘He’s phenomenal at accompanying.
You put any piece of music in front of him
and he can play it. Lots of classical pianists
can’t play pop music. But he is extremely ver-
satile. He’s definitely not stuffy.”’

Vienneau himself says, ‘‘I enjoy playing
for Southern Comfort and the other groups.
I played with a lot of really good classical
musicians at the conservatory, and they all
have such big egos. When you get together,
you just clash. It’s usually because you’re
competing to do something. Young musi-
cians especially are not there to make
beautiful music for people to listen to.
They’re making music so that judges will like
them. What I like about this place
[Washington and Lee] is you’re making
music to entertain people, which I think is
the essence of music, outside of its being an
art. My musical art, which I do by myself

W&L 17

     

 

 

and not in public, except for that one con-
cert a year, is completely different from the
entertaining music I do.’’

Rob Vienneau enjoys music. And he en-
joys entertaining others. It’s as simple as
that.

When the choral groups sing a piece a
cappella, the accompanist often moves from
the piano into their ranks where he joins in
the singing and, at times, the antics. During
Southern Comfort’s rendition of ‘‘No One’s
Perfect,’’ Vienneau chimes in with a falset-
to howling that would make any music
teacher cringe.

The audiences love it.

A propos Rob Vienneau, Tim Gaylard
likes to paraphrase Thomas Edison—talent
is 99 percent hard work and one percent
talent. ‘‘I’m a great believer in talent,’’
Gaylard says. ‘‘But I know Rob has worked
hard. He hasn’t gotten by solely on his talent.
He’s such a perfectionist, and he wants to
do the best he can. He realizes he has to live
up to his talent, to achieve the high standards
he knows he can achieve.”’

That hard work translates into time spent
practicing—usually several hours a day.
That’s a lot of homework for a one-credit
piano course. Vienneau doesn’t see it as a
burden.

‘*T just make the time for it,’’ he says.
‘“There’s a lot of wasting time that goes on
at W&L, or any college. I just put it to use
playing music. To me that’s pleasure; it’s not
work. There are guys who put in three hours
a day practicing football or swimming.
There’s not much difference, except their
thing is a sport, and mine is music.”’

For his most recent recital, Vienneau
chose the pieces and began working on them
about two months in advance. ‘‘I just started
plugging away,’’ he explains. ‘‘When you
start off, you’re pretty lazy. You’ll work on
that music for one or two hours a day, and
it sounds really bad. Then it eventually starts
coming together, and you want to practice
it and you want to play it right for the
concert.

‘‘Right up before the concert you’re
probably working on it about four hours a
day. And the week after the concert, you
don’t do anything.

‘*Then you learn a new program.’’

Before every concert, Vienneau worries
most not about what notes he will play, but
about what words he will say. ‘‘I think my
biggest fear of the whole concert is saying
what I’m going to play as an encore. I really
have a fear of talking in front of a lot of peo-
ple. I always know what I’m going to say
with my fingers, but with my mouth a lot of
things come out that I didn’t mean. If I had

18 W&L

my choice between playing something and
talking, I’d rather play.”’

Before his first recital his freshman year,
however, Vienneau did worry about more
than his encore announcement. ‘‘That was
the most nerve-wracking,’’ he remembers. ‘‘I
was 17 at the time, and I was really nervous
about going up there and playing in front of
all those people I didn’t know. I had gotten
quite a bit of publicity, and I kept saying to
myself, ‘They tell me I’m really good. But
am I?’ But then I realized, ‘You’re just play-
ing for friends. So enjoy it.’ ”’

Three years later, Vienneau is still just
playing for friends. The difference is there
are more of them now. His annual recitals
invariably draw bigger crowds to Lee Chapel
than most, if not all, of the ‘‘professionals’’
who appear on the Concert Guild schedule.

And his audiences have a different sort
of look about them, too. No doubt the Lex-
ington patrons of the arts were startled to see
a line of Washington and Lee football and
basketball players, complete with mohawk
haircuts and bulging biceps, file into the
front pews of Lee Chapel just before Vien-
neau’s most recent concert was to begin.
They were his fraternity brothers.

Vienneau was glad they were there. ‘‘A
lot of people who listen to classical music are
so full of it. They’ll say, ‘Oh, you played the
Schumann great,’ and what you played was
Rachmaninoff. You just don’t want to listen
to that. But at least those guys from the
fraternity came to see me. They probably
didn’t like any of the music I played, but they
were being supportive of what I was doing.
I appreciate that.

‘“Besides, I can deal with them on a level
outside of music. It’s not like I’m always
thinking about music. In fact, most of the
time I’m not thinking about music. I guess
just when I’m practicing for those three
hours am I intensely thinking about music.
I mean, I used to have Black Sabbath
albums, too. I guess there’s not too much of
a difference.’’

Too, Vienneau is an athlete himself. He
plays ice hockey with the University’s club
team, which competes against clubs from
Roanoke College, Virginia Tech, and other
area colleges. In addition to the broken arm,
Vienneau has broken his nose twice, has had
‘‘about 50 stitches’’ in his face, and has suf-
fered numerous other injuries. They have not
deterred him in the slightest.

‘*T never thought I would hurt my hands
or my arms playing hockey. That never
crossed my mind. When I tore cartilage in
my knee, I said, ‘Oh well, it doesn’t really
matter, because I can still play the piano.’
But when it was my arm, well, I kind of lost
my mind.’’

But with the help of physiotherapy, the
injury did not keep him from the piano—or
the ice. ‘‘You have to live your life. I know
some pianists walk around with gloves on
their hands all day long. I just couldn’t do
that.”’

Once Vienneau decided to remain at
Washington and Lee, he chose to major in
economics. He did not major in fine arts
because he had already had much of the re-
quisite coursework in music during high
school. Nonetheless he has only praise for
the University’s music faculty.

**T think they do an excellent job. They’re
fantastic for the budget they have and for
the type of student that Washington and Lee
attracts, which is definitely not super-artsy.
But I think they do a good job with what
they have.”’

I n June, Vienneau will march across the
Front Campus with the rest of his classmates
to receive his diploma. After that, he is not
quite sure what the future holds, though he
tentatively plans to go to law school. No mat-
ter what, he is determined to continue with
his music.

‘*T guess I’ll keep practicing on my own.
I’ll always need that time, and if I don’t have
that three hours to myself, I’ll drop out of
law school. The piano is a way of keeping
my sanity. I know when it’s not there. I get
really uptight and anxious, really snappy.
Some people have alcoholism and ‘drug-
ism.’ The piano is my ‘ism.’ ”’

Vienneau admits that growing up with
music creates a distinct disadvantage when
it comes time to choose a career. ‘“You have
this longing desire just to play music, and
other things seem pretty boring to you.’’

A musical career is always a possibility,
but Vienneau acknowledges it presents
numerous difficulties. ‘“There’s no money in
it. You need to make money to live, and
that’s the reality you have to deal with.
Unless you’re the number one in a competi-
tion you’re just not going to make it, and
that’s a lot of pressure. Every time you go
into these competitions you’re not competing
against Virginia or Washington state or
whatever, you’re competing against the
whole world. It’s a very tough thing.’’

Vienneau is not ruling that life out com-
pletely, however. ‘‘I’ll see what happens. If
I decide I want to go into a competition, I’ll
work as hard as I can. If I win it, that’s great.

‘If I don’t. . . ’’ Vienneau shrugs.

Well, there’s the possibility of law school.
Or something else, perhaps. But no matter
where he goes from Washington and Lee, it’s
a safe bet that Rob Vienneau will never get
cured of his ‘‘piano-ism.’’ And anyone who
has heard him play is thankful for that.

The W&L Gazette

 

Gottwalds’ Gift Endows Reeves Center Directorship

 

Washington and Lee has received a gift
of $750,000 from Mr. and Mrs. Floyd D.
Gottwald Jr. of Richmond to endow the
directorship of the Reeves Center for the
Research and Exhibition of Porcelain and
Paintings at the University.

The gift was made by Mr. Gottwald in
honor of his wife, Elisabeth Shelton Gott-
wald, whose interest in the establishment of
the Reeves Center was one of the motivating
influences in its foundation.

James W. Whitehead, former secretary
of the Board of Trustees, has served as direc-
tor of the Reeves Center since 1982.

‘“We are extremely grateful to Mr. and
Mrs. Gottwald for their steadfast support of
Washington and Lee and especially the
Reeves Center and its programs,’’ said W&L
President John D. Wilson. ‘‘The establish-
ment of this endowed chair will enable the
work of this important center to move for-
ward.’’

The Reeves Center was established at
Washington and Lee in 1982. Located in a
restored antebellum residence on the Front
Campus, the Reeves Center is the permanent
home of the University’s Reeves Collection
of 18th- and early 19th-century ceramics.

The collection of porcelain, which
numbers more than 2,000 items, was given
to the University by Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin

 

 

i

Mrs. Elisabeth Shelton Gottwald was serenad-
ed by Southern Comfort in the Gottwald
Gallery during the Reeves Center dedication.

D. Reeves. In addition to the porcelain, the
Reeves Center’s collections include the paint-
ings done by Mrs. Reeves, who signed her
early works with her maiden name, Louise
Herreshoff.

The Reeves Center features permanent
displays of the porcelain and the Herreshoff
paintings and is used by Washington and Lee
students who conduct independent study and
research there.

‘“We became interested in the Reeves
Center after we began seeing bits and pieces
of the collection unfold,’’ said Mrs. Gott-
wald. ‘‘Both of us thought it was an impor-
tant collection and a unique one for a
University.

‘‘Having an endowed directorship en-
sures the role the Center will have in the
future,’’ she added. ‘‘The endowment will
enable Jim Whitehead, to whom all the credit
is due for promoting the importance of the
collections, to provide direction for other
plans for the Center’s usage.

**The Reeves Center adds a unique
dimension to the University and the com-
munity. It is a place to be enjoyed by
students and their families and by others in
the community.”’

A previous gift from the Gottwalds made
possible the restoration of the historic home
that serves as the Reeves Center. In recogni-
tion of that gift and of the Gottwalds’ con-
tinued support, the University earlier nam-
ed the Center’s art gallery the Elisabeth
Shelton Gottwald Gallery in honor of Mrs.
Gottwald.

 

 

 

Timber!

High winds in February forced the
removal of a landmark white ash tree from
the campus.

Known unofficially as the ‘‘Commence-
ment Tree,’’ the towering ash tree had for
many years served as a backdrop (and had
provided welcome shade) for undergraduate
and law school commencement exercises.

The February wind caused a crack in the
trunk of the tree that had become weakened
over the years and had been repaired with
bricks in the trunk and iron rods that held
its various limbs together.

Estimates of the tree’s age were between
130 and 150 years old. That would mean
that President Robert E. Lee passed the tree
daily as he walked to Washington Hall and,
later, to Lee Chapel.

 

 

W&L

19

 

Morrison principal speaker
for Martin Luther King Day

Johnny E. Morrison, ’74, ’77L, com-
monwealth’s attorney for the City of Ports-
mouth, Va., was the principal speaker at a
service on Martin Luther King Day in
January.

Organized by the University’s Minority
Student Association, the program was held
in Lexington’s First Baptist Church and
featured music by the W&L Glee Club.

Morrison was elected commonwealth’s
attorney for Portsmouth in 1982. He had
previously been assistant commonwealth’s
attorney for a year in Norfolk and for three
years in Portsmouth.

Morrison challenged those in attendance
at the service to keep alive King’s dream of
peace and unity.

Said Morrison: ‘‘Martin was a drum ma-
jor for justice. He was a drum major for
peace. It all comes back to the basic princi-
ple, which is to help your fellow man.’’

Morrison’s speech came on the same day
that Norfolk’s Old Dominion University had
presented him with its third annual Martin
Luther King Jr. Memorial Award for ‘‘his
leadership in social justice.’’

Honors, awards

e James M. Sloat, a sophomore from
Annapolis, Md., is the 1986-87 winner of the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award.

The award recognizes superlative
academic achievement among under-
graduates in their first two years at the
University. It is given annually by the Gam-
ma of Virginia Chapter to the sophomore
who has attained the highest cumulative
scholastic average through the end of the fall
term of his or her second year at W&L.

e Juniors Steven F. Kendall of Win-
chester, Va., and James M. Metcalfe of Nat-
chez, Miss., are the 1986-87 recipients of the
L.K. Johnson Scholarship in the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

The scholarship was established in 1974
to honor the late Lewis Kerr Johnson, who
served W&L for 40 years as professor of ad-
ministration and head of the department of
administration.

The scholarship is awarded to juniors
majoring in business administration who
maintain a grade-point average of at least 3.0
and who are planning a career in business.

e J. Stewart Bryan, publisher of The
Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Rich-
mond News Leader, was the 1987 winner of
the First Amendment Award from W&L’s
chapter of Sigma Delta Chi-Society of Pro-
fessional Journalists.

20 W&L

 

Johnny E. Morrison, ’74, ’77L, addresses the audience at the Martin Luther King Day service.

Herrick appointed
to Hendon Professorship

Bruce H. Herrick, head of the depart-
ment of economics, has been named the first
John F. Hendon Professor of Economics at
the University.

The professorship is named in honor of
t the late John F. Hendon,

nt a 1924 graduate of
Washington and Lee and
a former member of the
Board of Trustees. The
endowment supporting
the chair was created par-
tially during Hendon’s
lifetime and was recently
completed by his widow, Mila Shropshire
Hendon of Birmingham, Ala.

Herrick joined the W&L faculty in 1980
as professor of economics and head of the
department. Before coming to Lexington, he
was associate professor of economics at the
University of California at Los Angeles. He
received his bachelor’s degree from Carleton
College and his Ph.D. from Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

He is the author or co-author of several
books and articles on economic develop-
ment. He has served as an economic consul-
tant throughout the world and was most
recently a member of a team assessing health
care systems in Guatemala for the U.S.
Agency for International Development (see
the January/February issue of the Alumni
Magazine).

    

Herrick’s fields of teaching include com-
parative economics and the economics of
developing nations.

Hendon, for whom the chair is named,
was president of numerous corporations in
Birmingham. He was owner and majority
stockholder in more than 25 companies and
partnerships operating parking and real
estate businesses in several Southern states.

He served on the W&L Board of Trustees
from 1959 until 1972 and was a president of
the University’s Alumni Association.

The Hendon Professorship brings to 12
the number of endowed chairs that the
University currently has to recognize
distinguished faculty members for their high
academic achievement and accomplishments
in the field of teaching.

Annual Fund shows increase

As of Feb. 28, 1987, contributions to the
1986-87 Annual Fund were showing a 17 per-
cent increase from last year’s results.

Contributions have totaled $1,320,740.
This year’s Annual Fund goal is $1.6 million.

The fund has shown an incréase in vir-
tually all of its categories—the number of
donors is up 11 percent to a total of 4,844
and the average gift is $273, an increase of
$13 from a year ago.

Of the 4,844 donors, 4,400 are alumni,
which represents an increase of 348 from last
year. The average gift from alumni is up $19.
Meanwhile, there has been a 51 percent in-
crease in the number of parents giving to the
Annual Fund this year.

 

Admissions record set

Washington and Lee received a record
3,314 applications for admission to the class
that will enroll in the University’s under-
graduate divisions this fall.

That total (as of Feb. 10) represents a 37
percent increase over the same date a year
ago when 2,416 high school seniors had ap-
plied to W&L.

The previous record for admissions was
set two years ago when the University had
2,639 applications for the first undergraduate
coeducational class.

According to William M. Hartog, direc-
tor of admissions, the increase in the number
of applications is accompanied by increases
in the quality of the applicant pool.

‘‘Not only is the applicant pool
significantly stronger as measured by test
scores and rank in class, but also in terms
of personal qualities,’’ Hartog said.

As reported in the January/February
issue of the Alumni Magazine, the Univer-
sity had admitted 85 students under the ear-
ly decision program. Since the entering class
will be 420 students, the competition for the
remaining 335 places in the class will be par-
ticularly stiff with 10 applicants for each
available place in the class.

‘‘The competition is staggering,’’ said
Hartog. ‘‘It is far and away the most com-
petitive situation we have had in many, many
years.”’

Included among those 3,314 applicants
are a record 191 children of W&L
alumni—118 sons and 73 daughters.

The applicant pool has 46 states, the
District of Columbia, and 17 foreign coun-
tries represented. The largest representation
comes from Virginia, which accounts for 19
percent of the total pool.

>

Superdance raises $33,152
for muscular dystrophy

Washington and Lee students raised
$33,152 for muscular dystrophy during the
ninth annual Superdance on the campus in
January.

Although this year’s marathon was
shortened from 30 to 18 hours, more than
160 dancers managed to surpass the event’s
goal of $30,000.

The money came from pledges to the
dancers, slave auctions, gate and concession
receipts, and such auxiliary events as pie
throws.

Jim Barker and Tom Thagard, both
seniors, were the co-chairmen of the event.

Sophomore Margaret Pimblett of
Newport News, Va., raised the most money
in pledges during the event.

 

Ruscio

Ruscio named assistant dean

Kenneth P. Ruscio, ’76, an assistant pro-
fessor in the department of social science and
policy studies at Worcester Polytechnical In-
stitute, has been named assistant dean of
students at Washington and Lee.

Ruscio’s primary responsibilities will in-
clude the freshman orientation process and
other areas related to freshman life. He will
also have responsibilities for upperclass
residence life in the new Gaines Residence
Hall. He replaces H. Robert Huntley, who
will return to full-time teaching in the English
department.

After receiving his B.A. in politics,
Ruscio spent two years as assistant dean of
students and assistant director of admissions
at W&L before entering the M.P.A. program

at Syracuse University. He holds both the

M.P.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Syracuse.

Ruscio has served as an associate faculty
member in the department of political science
at Utica College and as assistant to the direc-
tor of the National Association of Schools
of Public Affairs and Administration. From
1981 to 1982 he was a doctoral research
fellow in the U.S. General Accounting
Office.

He has been a visiting assistant professor
of political science at the University of Kan-
sas and was a postdoctoral research scholar
for the Comparative Higher Education
Research Group at UCLA before joining the
faculty at Worcester in 1985.

The author of many articles for scholar-
ly journals, Ruscio’s primary field of interest
and research has been the study of public
policy for higher education. At UCLA he
worked on a national study of college facul-
ty that was funded by the Carnegie
Foundation.

In addition to his duties in the dean of
students office, Ruscio will be a part-time
assistant professor of politics in the School
of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

Mock constitutional convention
scheduled for May

Washington and Lee students will help
commemorate this year’s bicentennial of the
United States Constitution with a mock con-
stitutional convention on May 2.

Believed to be the only event of its kind
in the U.S. during the Constitution’s
bicentennial year, the mock constitutional
convention will not be a reenactment of the
original convention.

‘*This will be an exercise in which the
students will consider amendments in light
of present society,’’ explained Robert
McAhren, professor of history and chairman
of the University committee on the bicenten-
nial of the Constitution. ‘‘The students are
planning to become knowledgeable about
public opinion on particular issues in the
various states.”’

Plans for the mock constitutional con-
vention began more than a year and a half
ago. The convention will address five cur-
rent issues selected by the rules committee
after consultation with the 50 state delega-
tions. Each delegation is charged with con-
ducting research into the issues that are ger-
mane to the state it will represent.

McAhren said that possible issues for
consideration by the convention would be a
balanced federal budget, right to life, and the
Equal Rights Amendment.

The convention will begin with delegate
registration followed by a welcoming speech
from W&L President John D. Wilson and
the keynote speech. One issue will be debated
in the morning session, three issues will go
before the convention in the afternoon, and
a final issue will be debated in the evening.

A written analysis and interpretation of
the convention and the issues debated will
be drafted and sent to various universities,
commissions, and individuals who have ex-
pressed an interest in the results of the mock
constitutional convention.

Washington and Lee is, of course, no
stranger to such an event. The University has
gained national recognition for both the
authenticity and the accuracy of its mock
political conventions, held every four years
to predict the candidate of the party out of
the White House.

Seniors Peter E. Bennorth and Victor A.
Bryant are co-chairmen of the event, which
is seeking additional financial support to help
defray expenses.

For information on the mock constitu-
tional convention or to make a contribution,
write Washington and Lee University, P.O.
Box Mock Constitutional Convention, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

W&L 21

 

 

ODK holds initiations
on Founders’ Day

Three Washington and Lee alumni and
a friend of the University were honorary in-
itiates of W&L’s Alpha Chapter of Omicron
Delta Kappa during the annual Founders’
Day convocation in January.

The convocation, which is held each year
on Robert E. Lee’s birthday, featured an ad-
dress by Henry J. Abraham, the James Hart
Professor of Government and Foreign Af-
fairs at the University of Virginia.

Abraham devoted his speech to some
reflections on the U.S. Constitution with par-
ticular attention to the role of the judiciary.
Abraham’s address was the first in a series
of presentations about the Constitution
planned for the University during the Con-
stitution’s bicentennial.

Omicron Delta Kappa, which was found-
ed at Washington and Lee in 1914,
recognizes superior leadership in various
areas of campus and community life.

In addition to the 23 students who were
tapped into ODK, the W&L chapter inducted
Robert W. Meador, senior vice president of
Dominion Bank in Lexington and an active
community volunteer; John Edmonds Neill,
°38, a retired businessman from Southern
Pines, N.C.; Shuford Rienhardt Nichols,
’30, president of Southern Compress Co. in
North Little Rock, Ark.; and Sen. John W.
Warner, ’49, the senior senator from Virginia
who lives in Middleburg.

A native of Vinton, Va., Meador joined
the First National Exchange Bank (now
Dominion Bank) in Lexington in 1960 as a
teller. He progressed through the ranks at
FNEB until he was named chief executive of-
ficer of the Lexington operation of the bank
in 1975 and was named a senior vice presi-
dent of Dominion in 1980.

Meador has served as state president of
the Virginia Jaycees and has been the
organizing president of the Lexington
Downtown Development Association, an
organization concerned with the economic
vitality of downtown Lexington. He has been
president of the Lexington-Rockbridge
Chamber of Commerce and the Henry Street
Playhouse and Stock Company.

Neill, a journalism graduate at W&L,
was a writer for Paramount Pictures in New
York City before serving in the U.S. Navy
during World War II. Following the war, he
was associate director of the college depart-
ment for Henry Holt & Co. Inc., a
publishing house, and later held a similar
position with W. W. Norton. He became vice
president and a director of W.W. Norton in
1961 and then was named vice president of
the board in 1976.

22 W&L

Le ee i,

Honorary ODK initiates
Warner, and John Edmonds Neill.

He has been a member of the Board of
Christian Education for the Congregational
Church and a member of the board of direc-
tors of the elementary, middle, and high
schools in Scarsdale, N.Y. Remaining active
in retirement, Neill is currently chairman of
the program committee for the Friends of
Weymouth Inc., a non-profit cultural center
in Southern Pines.

Nichols received a B.A. degree from
W&L in economics and graduated from the
Harvard Business School in 1931. In addi-
tion to serving as president and director of
Southern ‘Compress, the largest cotton
warehouse in Arkansas, Nichols serves in a
similar capacity for the Cotton Plant
Warehouse Co. and the Pioneer Irrigation
Co. He is a past president of the Arkansas
Missouri Cotton Association and is a
member of the National Cotton Compress
and Cotton Warehouse Association and the
Cotton Warehouse Association of America.

A trustee of the Presbyterian Foundation
and a director of the Arkansas Orchestra
Society, Nichols is director and vice chair-
man of the board of Arkansas College’s sub-
sidiary, the Aberdeen Development Co. In
1984 Nichols received the Arkansas College
Medal, the highest award given by the col-
lege for service to the institution.

After receiving the B.S. degree from
W&L, Warner earned his law degree from
the University of Virginia in 1953. He was
assistant U.S. attorney for the Department
of Justice from 1957 to 1960 and was a part-
ner in the Washington, D.C., law firm of
Hogan & Hartson. He was Under Secretary
of the Navy from 1969 to 1972 and served
as secretary of the Navy from 1974 to 1976.
He was national chairman of the Bicenten-

(from left) Shuford Rienhardt Nichols, Robert W. Meador, John W.

     

nial Administration prior to being elected to
the U.S. Senate in 1978. He won re-election
in 1984.

A Trustee Emeritus of Washington and
Lee, Warner is also a trustee of the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts, the Protestant
Episcopal Cathedral Foundation, and the
Washington Cathedral.

Rep. Schroeder inaugurates
Otey Lecture Series

Rep. Patricia S. Schroeder (D.-Colo.)
delivered the first lecture in the Elizabeth
Lewis Otey Lectures Series at the University
in February.

Schroeder, the most senior woman in
Congress, is co-chair of the Congressional
Caucus for Women’s Issues, a bipartisan
group of representatives devoted to advanc-
ing women’s legislation in Congress.

In her presentation at W&L, Schroeder
discussed the current legislative issues that
affect women and families.

Established through a gift from E. Otey
Watson of Lynchburg, the series honors
Mrs. Watson’s mother, the late Elizabeth
Lewis Otey, and is dedicated to bringing
recognized women of achievement to the
W&L campus.

Otey, who died in 1974 at the age of 93,
was among the first suffragettes who
marched on the White House in support of
the women’s rights movement. A 1901
graduate of Bryn Mawr College, Otey
studied at the University of Chicago and
earned a Ph.D. at the University of Berlin.

She was a special agent of the Bureau of
Labor where she was engaged in federal in-
vestigations into the conditions of employ-
ment of women and children.

 

The law and Gen. Custer

Gen. George A. Custer helped teach
Washington and Lee’s first-year law students
a valuable lesson last fall.

When entering students began academic
orientation in the School of Law, they un-
doubtedly expected to receive an introduc-
tion to such legal terminology as briefs and
torts. Instead, they found themselves em-
broiled in a lively debate about Custer and
his last stand.

The Battle of the Little Big Horn in which
Gen. Custer and his troops were wiped out
by Sioux Indians and their allies might seem
a more appropriate topic for discussion in
an American history class.

But Samuel W. Calhoun, associate pro-
fessor of law at W&L, believes that Custer’s
defeat and the events leading up to it are
ideally suited for study in law school.

That’s why one of the first assignments
given to W&L law students is found not in
a law text, but in a history book. The new
students read the written order to Custer
from his commanding officer and study the
chronology of events surrounding the bat-
tle. They must then judge Custer’s actions.

‘“‘To decide whether Custer acted proper-
ly, you need to use the skills of close reading
and analysis—skills that are crucial for the
study of law,’’ explains Calhoun. ‘‘That’s
why it’s a good exercise for entering students.
And the exercise deals with a subject
matter—American history—with which most
students are already quite comfortable.”’

Custer’s conduct at the Little Big Horn
has long been a subject of controversy
among American history scholars. Did the
general have the discretionary authority to
lead his men into that fateful encounter with
the Sioux? Or was the disaster the direct
result of his willful and deliberate defiance
of orders?

To answer these questions, W&L’s first-
year law students must turn to the original
document—Custer’s order. And that,
Calhoun insists, is the value of the entire
exercise.

‘*To study law—and to practice it—you
must be able to read language closely, to ex-
amine language in light of the facts,”’’
Calhoun says. ‘‘And many times the
language is ambiguous.

**The Custer order is tailor-made for that
kind of exercise. You can make convincing
arguments for both sides. The order is only
11 sentences long, but you can argue about
it forever.’’

And the students do argue. ‘‘They come
into the session, having read the order, and
half of them are convinced Custer was right
and half are convinced he was wrong,’’ says

Calhoun. ‘‘As the discussion progresses, they
realize the complexity of the issue. And many
of them change their minds.”’

J. David Nave, a 1986 graduate of W&L
and a first-year law student from Oak Ridge,
Tenn., remembers that first class discussion
as a valuable introduction to the study of
law. “‘It gave me a chance to become
oriented with the way you think in law
school,’’ recalls Nave. ‘‘It was similar to the
way you approach material in law school.
But instead of giving us a real case, with
vocabulary that we couldn’t understand, they
gave us material that was familiar and
accessible.”’

Calhoun, a western history buff, original-
ly designed the exercise for a small orienta-
tion group. Last fall, for the first time, the
entire first-year class engaged in the discus-
sion, which was led by eight third-year
students.

Now Calhoun hopes that professors at
other law schools will follow his lead and in-
corporate the Little Big Horn into their
academic programs. He recently published
an article in the Journal of Legal Education
explaining his use of the Custer discussion
and is hopeful that it will generate interest
elsewhere.

“*Every few years a new book comes out
about Custer,’’ says Calhoun. ‘‘It’s a topic
of great interest to a lot of people. I think
students find it is an interesting and enter-
taining way to begin their study of law.

‘*And it’s a real eye-opener for them to
see just how complex an issue can be.’’

By the way, although Calhoun tries his
best to stay neutral during the discussion,
deep down he believes that Custer was guil-
ty of disobedience.

But that’s really for his students to
decide.

 

W&L = 23

 

The Generals’ Report

 

W&L’s Women, Men Swimmers Post Winning Seasons

 

LL. just its second year of operation, the
Washington and Lee women’s swimming
team performed well beyond any of head
coach Page Remillard’s expectations.

The team began from scratch last year
with just three swimmers. This year’s roster
had only 10 names, not exactly the numbers
necessary to win swimming meets.

But the Generals cruised through the
regular season and in their wake left a perfect
(4-0) Old Dominion Athletic Conference
record and a 5-4 overall mark. W&L also
finished fourth out of 14 teams at the Tri-
State Championships, which included teams
from Virginia, Maryland, and West Virginia.

‘I set some modest goals for the
women’s program two years ago,’’ says
Remillard. ‘‘I basically wanted to build the
program and slowly work our way toward
respectability. But I have to hand it to the
women. They made a commitment to
themselves to have a winning record. That
was a lofty goal, but they reached it.

‘*We were successful because each of the
swimmers sacrificed her own personal goals.
All 10 team members contributed,’ he says.

Sophomore Elizabeth Miles, who
qualified for the NCAA Division III Na-
tional Championships, was the individual
standout again this year. But she obviously
did not win those meets by herself.

‘‘Rlizabeth had another outstanding
season, but she was just one of 10 who
should be proud of this accomplishment,’’
Remillard says.

Included among the team’s victories was
a 71-68 decision over Sweet Briar, which had
never lost an ODAC swim meet.

The W&L men’s swimming team quietly
recorded its fourth consecutive winning
season by compiling an 8-1 record. However,
the Generals made their biggest splash when
they dominated the Tri-State Champion-
ships, easily defeating nine opponents. W&L
finished an astonishing 125 points ahead of
second-place Fairmont State.

Like the women, W&L’s men did not de-
pend on a single individual performer.
Remillard was able to employ a flexible
lineup which best took advantage of the op-
ponents’ liabilities.

‘“‘We used different lineups and asked
everyone to contribute to the team effort,”’
Remillard says.

24 W&L

 

By Mark Mandel

      

o*

ig f’

Sophomore Elizabeth Miles a

 

Winter Sports

Scoreboard

-

BASKETBALL (15-10)

W&L 67, Johns Hopkins 37
Ithaca 84, W&L 82
Hampden-Sydney 87, W&L 77
W&L 70, Greensboro 58

W&L 74, Lynchburg 63
Bridgewater 75, W&L 63

W&L 71, Cortland 68

W&L 85, Newport News 78
W&L 72, Philadelphia Pharmacy 64
UNC-Greensboro 73, W&L 61
Roanoke 81, W&L 58

W&L 70, Maryville 55

W&L 80, Eastern Mennonite 60
W&L 80, Emory University 78
Hampden-Sydney 81, W&L 78
W&L 82, Emory & Henry 73
W&L 84, Lynchburg 70

Emory & Henry 97, W&L 83
W&L 85, Emory 72

W&L 72, Bridgewater 67

Mary Washington 76, W&L 75
Roanoke 57, W&L 51

W&L 75, Eastern Mennonite 68
W&L 71, Maryville 60
Lynchburg 82, W&L 80

 

   

 

WRESTLING (9-5)

Virginia Tech 33, W&L 17
W&L 31, Johns Hopkins 16
W&L 45, Loyola 19

W&L 48, Hampden-Sydney 6
Lycoming 38, W&L 3

W&L 47, Baptist Bible 5
W&L 25, Muhlenberg 21
Scranton 32, W&L 15

W&L 32, Virginia State 18
W&L 40, Gallaudet 18
Washington & Jefferson 29, W&L 18
Longwood 29, W&L 18

W&L 22, Hampden-Sydney 21
W&L 45, Davidson 10

MEN’S SWIMMING (8-1)

W&L 121, V.M.I. 84
Shippensburg 100, W&L 75
W&L 68, Frostburg 40

W&L 65, Georgetown 43

W&L 102%, Towson State 91%
W&L 88, Shepherd 58

W&L 117, Gettysburg 57

W&L 81, Mary Washington 67
W&L 111, William & Mary 106

WOMEN’S SWIMMING (5-4)

W&L 101, Mary Baldwin 49

W&L 71, Sweet Briar 68

W&L 105, Randolph-Macon Woman’s 37
Frostburg 67, W&L 44

Georgetown 60, W&L 44

W&L 73, Shepherd 42

Gettysburg 102, W&L 57

Mary Washington 124, W&L 84

W&L 72, Hollins 63

The Generals will be represented in the
NCAA Division III championships by five
men: seniors Jay ReVille and Martin Rad-
vany, sophomores David Reavy and Jeff
Bercaw, and freshman David Olson.

yr : sy
€ oan G' 87 ae %
ASKCI Da if

Led by senior Jefferson Harralson, who
became the 14th player in W&L history to
reach 1,000 career points, the W&L basket-
ball team finished with a 15-10 mark. It was
the 19th winning season in head coach Verne
Canfield’s 21 years.

The Generals scored two impressive road
victories in the final weeks of the season,
upsetting ODAC regular season champion
Bridgewater and defeating Maryville, in
order to wind up in a tie for third place in
the ODAC with an 8-6 record.

Although W&L had the homecourt ad-
vantage in the first round of the ODAC tour-
nament, the Generals could not withstand a
second-half rally by Lynchburg, which wiped
out a 15-point deficit and captured an 82-80
victory.

Harralson, who concluded his career in
12th place on W&L’s all-time scoring list

BASEBALL
Mar. 4 V.M.I. Home
Mar. 8 West Virginia Tech (2) Home
Mar. 9 Lock Haven State Home
Mar. 10 Lock Haven State Home
Mar. 14 Christopher Newport Away
Mar. 15 Pittsburgh/Bradford Home
Mar. 17 Bridgewater Away
Mar. 19 Eastern Mennonite Home
Mar. 21 Randolph-Macon (2) Away
Mar. 25 Hampden-Sydney Home
Mar. 26 Lynchburg Home
Mar. 28 Emory & Henry (2) Away
Mar. 30 Oneonta Home
Apr. 11 Radford (2) Home
Apr. 14 Lynchburg Away
Apr. 16 Bridgewater Home
Apr. 18 Maryville (2) Away
Apr. 21 Hampden-Sydney Away
Apr. 22 Eastern Mennonite Away
Apr. 24 Christopher Newport Home
Apr. 29 ODAC Quarterfinals TBA
May 2 ODAC Semi-Finals, Finals TBA
TRACK AND FIELD

Mar. 14 Davidson, Roanoke Home
Mar. 17 Bridgewater,

Eastern Mennonite Away
Mar. 21 Liberty U. Invit. Away
Mar. 24 Newport News,

Eastern Mennonite Home
Mar. 27-28 Battlefield Relays Away
Apr. 11 Div. II & III St. Meet Away
Apr. 19 Catholic U. Invit. Away
Apr. 26 ODAC Tournament Away
May 2 James Madison Invit. Away
May 9 Virginia Invit. Away

 

 

Senior Jefferson Harralson

with 1,219 points, was named to the AIll-
ODAC first team.

Indoor Track and Field
For the fourth time in as many years,
Washington and Lee captured the ODAC

men’s indoor track and field title.
The Generals, who scored 152 points to

 

second-place Roanoke’s 104, were led by im-
pressive performances from junior Andrew
White and senior Tom Murray.

White, named the ODAC runner of the
year, won the 55-meter hurdles with a time
of 7.82 seconds, finished second in the
400-meter dash, and ran a leg of the
Generals’ victorious 400-meter relay team.

Murray set an ODAC record with a shot
put of 50 feet, % inch. W&L senior John
Burlingame won the long jump at 21 feet,
10 inches.

Head coach Norris Aldridge was named
the league’s coach of the year.

Wrestling

The W&L wrestling team finished its
season with a 9-5 record in dual meets. Two
Generals earned the right to compete for the
national Division III titles with high finishes
in the Southeastern Regional Champion-
ships.

Sophomore Richard Redfoot was the
regional runner-up at 177 pounds while
junior Steve Castle finished third in the
region in the 118-pound class. Both Redfoot
and Castle advanced to national competition.

 

Spring
Sports
Schedules

LACROSSE
Feb. 28 Virginia Home
Mar. / Lynchburg Home
Mar. 12 Ohio Wesleyan Home
Mar. 14 Swarthmore Home
Mar. 18 Notre Dame Home
Mar. 21 Gettysburg Away
Mar. 23 V.M.I. Away
Mar. 25 Randolph-Macon Away
Mar. 28 Dartmouth Home
Apr. 1 Middlebury Home
Apr. 18 Hampden-Sydney Away
Apr. 25 Washington College Away
Apr. 29 Roanoke Home
WOMEN’S TENNIS
Mar. 17 Hollins Away
Mar. 19 Lynchburg Away
Mar. 25 R-M/Ashland Home
Mar. 27 R-M Women’s Home
Apr. 11 Emory & Henry Away
Apr. 13 Bridgewater Home
Apr. 17 Roanoke Away
Apr. 18 Longwood Away
Apr. 21 Sweet Briar Away
Apr. 22 Mary Baldwin Away
Apr. 24-25 ODAC Tournament Away

MEN’S TENNIS

reo. 2/ Penn St. Home
Mar. 3 James Madison Away
Mar. 10 Millersville Home
Mar. 11 Virginia Tech Away
Mar. 12 Slippery Rock Home
Mar. 13 Davidson Away
Mar. 14 Furman Away
Mar. 16 UNC-Greensboro Home
Mar. 17 Emory & Henry Away
Mar. 21 William & Mary Home
Mar. 25 Lynchburg Away
Mar. 27 Emory University Home
Mar. 29 Swarthmore Home
Mar. 31 VM. Away
Apr. | Hampden-Sydney Home
Apr. 13 St. Leo Away
Apr. 14 Stetson Away
Apr. 15 Rollins . Away
Apr. 16 Flagler Away
Apr. 17 North Florida Away
Apr. 21 Christopher Newport Home
Apr. 22 Averett Home
Apr. 24-25 ODAC Conf. Tour. Away
Apr. 27 Virginia Away
May 11-17 NCAA Division III Away
GOLF
Mar. 13-14 JMU Invitational Away

Mar. 18 Bridgewater, Hampden-Sydney,
Lynchburg, Roanoke Away
Mar. 20 Ferrum Invit. Away
Mar. 24 Bridgewater, Hampden-Sydney,
Lynchburg, Roanoke Home
Apr. 20 Roanoke, Bridgewater,
Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg,
Randolph-Macon Away
Apr. 27-28 ODAC Championship Away

 

 

W&L 25

Alumni News

 

12 Chapters Celebrate Lee’s Birthday in January

 

W, ashineton and Lee alumni literally
from coast to coast gathered together in mid-
January to celebrate the 180th anniversary
of Robert E. Lee’s birth.

Originated by the Atlanta Chapter of the
University’s Alumni Association several
years ago, the concept of a Lee’s birthday
party has spread far and wide.

This year 12 different alumni chapters
held receptions and dinners and meetings on
or about Jan. 19.

In addition to Atlanta, those chapters
celebrating Lee’s birthday were Blue Ridge,
Louisville, Mid-South, Oregon, Peninsula,
Phoenix, Puget Sound, Seattle, Tallahassee,
Tucson, and Washington, D.C.

A Different Pursuit

Meanwhile in the Big Apple, more than
100 New York area alumni and guests at-
tended a performance of The Common Pur-
suit, the most critically and popularly suc-
cessful off-Broadway play of the season.

The play was produced by John A.
McQuiggan, °56 (See January/February
Alumni Magazine), and the W&L alumni
honored the producer at a gathering in an
Upper West Side garden restaurant follow-
ing the performance. Two members of the
cast, Lisa Eichhorn and Dylan Baker, also
attended the reception.

James W. Whitehead, director of the
Reeves Center, brought greetings on behalf
of the University.

Fun in the Sun

Dick Sessoms, executive secretary of the
Alumni Association, escaped the snowy Lex-
ington weather in mid-February to give a
report on the University to the Jacksonville
and Florida West Coast chapters.

During Sessoms’ Florida swing, the
newest W&L alumni chapter was officially
established when alumni in Sarasota held an
organizational meeting. M. Steven LaCroix,
°75L, has been elected president of the
Sarasota Chapter, which brings to 83 the
number of organized alumni chapters.

26 W&L

 

PUGET SOUND—Celebrating Lee’s birthday were (from left) George Eshelman, ’43; Charlotte

Eshelman; Shelby Luessen; Robin Corwin; Alan Corwin, ’62; Colleen Gallagher; Mike Gallagher,

°79.

TUCSON—Standing (from left) Carole and Lee Mullins, ’58; Marilyn and Chuck Sherman, ’57;

 

Charles Kaufman, ’33; Ben Anderson, ’38. Seated (from left) Esther Anderson; Chris Bradley,

*85; Jim Foard, ’42; Alice and David Mullon, ’46.

Changes in command

Several chapters have elected new
presidents in the past several months. The
new presidents include:

Jean L. Baxter, ’80L, takes over the
Phoenix Chapter and becomes the first
woman to be president of a W&L alumni
chapter; Arthur P. Caltrider Jr., ’80, is now
the president of the Baltimore Chapter; Dr.
George B. Craddock Jr., ’64, takes over the

Blue Ridge Chapter; James N. Overton, ’75,
has been elected president of the Jackson-
ville Chapter; and Charles L. Sherman IV,
’57, is now president of the Tucson Chapter.

Other activities

The San Diego Chapter held two gather-
ings this winter. In January chapter members
turned out to greet Bill McHenry, W&L’s
director of athletics, and Gary Fallon, the

 

 

Steve Case, 66, 69L.

and Becky Meier.

 

JACKSONVILLE—The Jacksonville Chapter gathering included (from
left) Jim Newton, ’77; Jim Overton, ’75; and Sidney Simmons, ’80.

Generals’ head football coach, both of
whom were attending the NCAA Convention
in San Diego. In mid-February Rector James
M. Ballengee, ’48L, visited with the chapter.

Alumni in the Columbus, Ga., area had
a reception for W&L President John D.
Wilson in January.

Other recent events included the Rich-
mond Chapter’s Valentine’s Day party and
the annual business meeting of the New
Orleans Chapter.

PHOENIX—New chapter president Jean Baxter, ’80L (center), is
flanked by (from left) Susan and Jeff Willis, ’75L; and Pam and

OREGON—Joining to celebrate Lee’s birthday were (from left) Art
Kroos, *64; Joe Moffatt, °50; Donna Cantwine; George Meier, ’66;

Sl is

FLORIDA WEST COAST—Participants in the Florida West Coast
Chapter’s gathering were (from left) John Robinson, ’72; Mike

 

Airheart, ’78; and John Dinkel, ’61, ’*64L.

Barkley, ’73L.

Three pilot cities will begin to participate
in the newly created Career Assistance Pro-
gram later this year. The program is design-
ed to have alumni in the areas help W&L
juniors and seniors with their career plans
and job search.

Chet Smith, 53, a member of the Alumni
Association board, is heading the efforts.
The pilot cities are Atlanta, Roanoke, and

BLUE RIDGE—Rich Milnor, ’70, ’74L (right), president of the Blue
Ridge Chapter, discusses the Lee’s birthday celebration with Bill

 

formed Sarasota Chapter, is shown with (from left) his wife, Diane
LaCroix; Cliff Walters, ’71, ’76L; and John Early, 717.

 

Washington, D.C., where the local coor-
dinators will be Craig Jones, ’73, and Hank

Hall, ’79 (Atlanta); Ed Smith, ’85
(Roanoke); and Michael Missai, ’78
(Washington).

Leaders in the program met on the cam-
pus in January with Anne Schroer, associate
dean of students and acting director of career
development; Buddy Atkins, ’68, associate
dean of students; and Jim Farrar Jr., ’74,
assistant alumni secretary.

W&L 27

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIRS AND ROCKERS
With Crest in Five Colors

The chairs are made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black lacquer (also
available by special order in dark pine stain; see note below). They are attractive
and sturdy pieces of furniture and are welcome gifts for all occasions—Christmas,
birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$150.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$160.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

By Special Order Only: The Arm Chair and Boston Rocker are also available by
special order in natural dark pine stain, with crest in five colors, at the same price
as the black arm chair and rocker. Allow at least 12 weeks for delivery.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check. Freight charges and
delivery delays can often be minimized by having the shipment made to an office or business
address. Please include your name, address, and telephone number, and a telephone number,
if known, for the delivery location.

 

 

28

W&L

1926
Emmett W. MacCorkle Jr. celebrated his 80th
birthday last October and received a ‘‘Resolution
of Commendation’’ from the California Senate.
MacCorkle lives in Portola Valley, Calif.

Dr. James N. Williams retired in 1985 from the
practice of medicine. He lives in Virginia Beach.

Henry M. Wilson and his wife, Marion, live in
Owensboro, Ky., where Wilson has organized and
moderates a library discussion group once a week.

1927

Dr. Alexander S. Moffett retired from the prac-
tice of surgery in Taylorsville, N.C., in 1979. He
now lives in a Presbyterian retirement home in
Orlando, Fla., where he enjoys studying poetry
and writing.

R. Wilbur Simmons is living in Pilgrim Place, a
retirement center in Claremont, Calif. He enjoys
gardening, drama, and music.

Joseph A. Smith received the National Quality
Award from the National Association of Life
Underwriters after 42 years in the business. Of the
17 awards given in the industry, Smith was the only
recipient from Prudential. Smith and his wife, Syd-
nie, have a son, Art, who is an attorney in Baton
Rouge, La.

Thomas P. Stearns is retired from teaching at the
Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn. Stearns
reports that his wife, Kathleen, died on the eve of
her 90th birthday on May 26, 1986. He lives in Bel

Air, Md.
1930

Charles W. Cocke is an active member of the
Thomasville, Ga., community, where he has been
involved in various organizations including the
American Legion, the BPOE Lodge, the National
Association of Retired Federal Employees, and the
St. Thomas Episcopal Church.

1931

Dr. Reno R. Porter, an emeritus professor of
medicine at the Medical College of Virginia in
Richmond, was recently the recipient of the
‘*Distinguished Medical Faculty Award’’ presented
by the medical division of the college’s alumni

association.
1932

John J. Broderick is teaching law at Campbell
University in Buies Creek, N.C. A member of the
New York Bar and formerly assistant dean and
professor of law at Notre Dame, he was Camp-
bell’s first full professor of law. Broderick is a
labor arbitrator and member of the American Ar-
bitration Association. For more than 20 years he
served as co-director of proceedings of the Notre
Dame Union-Management Conference. He gives
annual lectures on labor law and arbitration at the
London School of Economics at Oxford Univer-
sity, the University of Paris, and the Peace Palace
at The Hague in Holland.

John C. Harris has retired from the wholesale
grocery business. He lives in Scottsboro, Ala.,

 

where he operates a farm, serves on several cor-
porate boards, and enjoys traveling and perform-
ing volunteer work.

Dr. William D. Hoyt, retired professor of history
and former vice president and curator of the San-
dy Bar Historical Society and Museum in
Rockport, Mass., has recently completed two
historical calendars. His book of Gloucester water-
front photographs is on the press.

George Rose Smith retired in January after 38
years as an associate justice of the Supreme Court
of Arkansas, the longest term any judge has serv-
ed in the history of the court. Smith has par-
ticipated in more than a quarter of the opinions
written during the court’s 150-year history. For the
past eight years, Smith was the senior appellate
judge in the U.S. The Arkansas Lawyer called him
‘*a legend in legal and judicial circles throughout

Arkansas.”’
1934

Henry E. Allen has been retired from the Depart-
ment of State since 1972 and now lives in Bethesda,
Md.

Robert D. Bailey continues in active practice after
52 years as an attorney.

Dr. Milton L. Harris is practicing internal medicine
in Baton Rouge, La.

Francis L. Patton and his wife, Louise, recently
celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary.

1935

William R. Fox retired last January from the
Davies Can Co., a division of Van Dorn Co. in
Houston.

Loyal P. Gassman does volunteer work in his
hometown of Freeport, III.

Allen M. Harrelson Jr., a past director and
treasurer of his condominium association at In-
nisbrook Resort and Golf Club in Tarpon Springs,
Fla., is treasurer of the Innisbrook Men’s Golf
Association.

D. Lyle Kinnear, professor emeritus of education
and psychology at Virginia Tech, was honored last
spring by Virginia Tech’s Board of Visitors for his
long service as ‘‘an extraordinarily able teacher and
scholar, and as mentor, friend, and counselor to
innumerable students and colleagues.’’ Kinnear
was the author of The First 100 Years—A History
of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State

University.
1936

Francis L. Patton (See 1934).

James L. Price’s book The New Testament: Its
History and Theology is being published by Mac-
Millan. This is an extensively revised edition of a
1961 book, Interpreting the New Testament.

Ralph H. Smith, retired vice president of govern-
mental relations for the Union Central Life In-
surance Co., still represents the company before
the legislature and is also a consultant for other
life insurance companies in the field of regulation.

1937

A. Austin Bricker was recently elected to the board
of directors of the Mississippi Seniors Golf
Association Inc. for a four-year term.

The U.S. 76/378 Bypass at Sumter, S.C., has been
named in honor of Robert E. Graham. The bypass
was Officially designated the Robert E. Graham
Freeway in a ceremony on Feb. 6, 1987, which
honored him for his many efforts and civic con-
tributions to Sumter.

Isadore M. Scott is actively involved in prepara-

tion of Philadelphia’s program celebrating the
bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution.

Dr. John F. Tompkins (See 1978).

1938

William B. Bagbey is staying busy as president of
the Roanoke Valley Historical Society, chairman
of the Friends Committee of Hollins College’s An-
nual Fund, and a member of the National Board
of Directors of the English-Speaking Union of the
USS.

Thomas A. Malloy Jr. is retired from Ferris State
College, where he is a professor emeritus of
sociology. He lives in Big Rapids, Mich.

Dr. Albert A. Pollack is retired but remains a con-
sultant to the Federal Reserve Disability Benefits
Fund. He spent 25 years as a medical director of
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York and later
taught at Cornell Medical School as an associate
professor of medicine.

W.R. (Buck) Stoops is president of the Atlanta
Thoroughbred Training Center Inc. for training
and racing Thoroughbred horses. Stoops lives in

Cedartown, Ga.
1939

Robert E. Graham (See 1937).

George C. Kerr and his wife, Florence, continue
to enjoy their retirement at Leisure Knoll in
Lakehurst, N.J., where he remains active as an
elder in Toms River Presbyterian Church and as
chairman of the insurance committee for their
village of 1,200 homes.

Ralph H. Smith (See 1936).

1940

Dr. G. Watson James III still teaches at the
Medical College of Virginia in Richmond.

John W. Johnston, who retired in 1984 from the
Equitable Life Assurance Society, continues to
operate a cattle farm outside Lexington.

W.R. (Buck) Stoops (See 1938).

1942

Robert F. Campbell Jr. retired last November after
39 years in journalism, the last 15 as editor and
editorial page editor of The Times in Gainesville,
Ga., where he plans to continue living.

William B. Hopkins of Roanoke has written a
book on the Korean War titled, One Bugle, No
Drums.

J. Luther Jordan Jr. retired from Louisiana Na-
tional Bank in October 1986. He will continue as
a director of the bank and chairman of the Loui-
siana Water Co. and Baton Rouge Water Co. Jor-
dan plans to divide his time between North
Carolina and Baton Rouge.

C. Lane Sartor has been named honorary member
of the Gulf Coast Association of Geological
Societies for his distinguished contributions to
geology and to the petroleum industry. Lane is cur-
rently vice president of Wheless Industries Inc. and
Tensas Delta Land Co. He serves as exploration
manager and as a director of both companies.

1943

Allie H. Lane plans to take of counsel status with
his law firm Lane, Trohn, Clarke, Bertrand &
Williams in March. He will devote himself to ap-
pellate practice and a more relaxed schedule. He
lives in Bartow, Fla.

Joseph E. Lee retired last September from
McLaughlin Gormley King Co. after 38 years. He
is still doing limited consulting in clinical

specialties. He and his wife, Arline, are residents
of Minneapolis nine months a year and Florida
three months a year. They have two grandsons,
ages 3 and 1.

Macon M. Long Jr. retired in February 1986 after
serving as judge of the 30th Judicial Circuit Court
of Virginia since October 1958.

Morrison R. Nelson retired in December 1986 as
senior vice president of Southwestern Tobacco
Co., a subsidiary of Universal Leaf Tobacco Co.,
after 41 years in the tobacco business. He and his
wife, Jackie, live in Murrells Inlet, S.C.

William J. Noonan Jr. is involved in real estate
development in Pensacola, Fla., where he is also
active in community activities, including the First
Presbyterian Church, the Baptist Health Care
Foundation, the City Recreation Board, and the
Law Enforcement Ministries (church in jail). He
and his wife have 10 grandchildren.

John C. Sherrard is group vice president of
Carolina Group A&P Tea Co. in Charlotte.

Ernest E. Smith retired in April 1986 from his posi-
tion as assistant vice president of the U.S. Fire In-
surance Co. in Basking Ridge, N.J.

1944

Richard L. Duchossois has been honored as a 1986
‘‘Newsmaker of the Year’’ by Thoroughbred
Record magazine. Duchossois was recognized for
staging the International Festival of Racing at Arl-
ington Park, the horse-racing park he owns near
Chicago; for keeping the track going after a July
1985 fire; and for his role in the passage of what
is seen as a model racing bill by the Illinois General
Assembly. Duchossois breeds Thoroughbreds,
owns a racing stable, and heads Duchossois Enter-
prises Inc., a 7,500-employee industrial, research,
and communications company. His home is in
Barrington, III.

William B. Hopkins (See 1942).

1946

Ray H. Dovell has retired after 34 years with the
Mobil Oil Corp., where his last major assignment
was manager of planning for Mobil Saudi Arabia
in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. He and his wife,
Mildred, live in Wilton, Conn.

Dr. Thomas M. Wright has had his private prac-
tice in Falls Church, Va., for 25 years and is the
chief general surgeon at the Fairfax Hospital. His
youngest son, Andrew, is a first-year law student
at W&L.

1947

Allie H. Lane (See 1943).

William F. Parkerson Jr. was elected president pro
tempore of the Virginia state senate in September.
He has represented Henrico County since 1964.

1948

Rev. Lewis V. Boyle retired as pastor of New Mon-
mouth Presbyterian Church near Lexington in
December 1985. He lives in Yaupon Beach, N.C.

Hardin M. Goodman retired in July 1986 as pro-
fessor of English at Florida State University. He
lives in Tallahassee, Fla.

John E. Miller Jr. recently retired from a 26-year
career with the Foreman Cement Co. in Little
Rock, Ark., where he served as president and chief
executive officer.

Fred L. Rush and his wife, Jeannine, have retired
to Valle Crucis, N.C.

1949

William M. Kinnaird has started doing voice-overs
W&L 29

 

for radio and television commercials, television
programs, films, and audio/visuals. He lives in
Atlanta.

Perry E. Mann is serving as assistant prosecuting
attorney of Summons County, W.Va., and is prac-

ticing privately.
1950

R. Dabney Chapman retired in July 1986 from
foreign service for U.S. Information Agency. He
was last posted in Istanbul, Turkey. In November,
he and his wife, Nancy, moved to Shepherdstown,
W.Va.

Dr. W. James Gardner III is still practicing surgery
at the Ogden, Utah, Clinic, where he has been since
1960. He is director of university surgical service
at McKay-Dee Hospital and clinical associate pro-
fessor of surgery at the University of Utah School
of Medicine. Gardner married Mary Elane Hoerg
in August 1984.

John Lee Hopkins practices law in Rocky Mount,
Va.

Arthur Marenstein has retired from teaching social
studies after 32 years—31 in the Sewanhaka High
School District in Nassau County, N.Y.

Andrew L. Peabody is chartering his 48-foot
schooner, The Blue Max, out of Antigua and the
Grenadines. He also owns a Natchez, Miss., travel
agency.

Fred L. Rush (See 1948).

William T. Wallis III is vice chairman of the
American Pioneer Savings Bank in Orlando, Fla.

William (Nat) Weaver Jr. retired in December 1986
as president of Retirement Accounts Inc., a com-
pany he founded and incorporated in 1975 in
Winter Park, Fla.

1951

John P. Bowen Jr. recently had his fifth book
published. Battlefields of the Civil War, publish-
ed by Chartwell Books Inc. of New York, relates
the history of the Civil War to remaining bat-
tlefields and related relics, including antebellum
homes and memorials. It includes more than 230
photos, 10 of which are Bowen’s. He lives in
Newport News, Va.

Samuel D. Eggleston Jr. was appointed to the Cen-
tral Virginia regional board of Jefferson National
Bank in 1985. He lives in Lovingston, Va.

W. Vance Rucker retired in 1982 as president of
Scragg North America and has been working as
an investment adviser.

Park B. Smith is resident partner and manager of
J.C. Bradford & Co. He was recently elected the
19th president of the 167-year-old New England
Society. He lives in Sullivans Island, S.C.

William G. White is district manager for number
services for Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. in

Tulsa, Okla.
1952

Buddy G. Arnold retired from Dupont Co. after
more than 34 years. He plans to make his home
in Chattanooga, Tenn.

W. Frank Barron has sold seven Coca-Cola plants
to Coca-Cola Enterprise Co. and is now vice presi-
dent for public affairs for Coca-Cola in Rome, Ga.

Judge William G. Fuqua has completed 17 years
as circuit court judge of Kentucky’s 7th Judicial
District. He lives in Russellville, Ky.

Joe Mendelsohn III has stepped down from his
position as chairman of Kenner Products Co. and
will remain with the company as a part-time con-

30 = W&L

 

sultant. He has recently built a vacation home in
northwest Montana and will spend several months
a year there.

Hilliard A. Robertson Jr. retired from Reader’s
Digest in Atlanta in December 1986.

1953

Jere N. Moore Jr. of Tallahassee, Fla., has been
appointed supervisor of elections for Leon County
by Florida Gov. Bob Graham. Moore has served
since 1979 as the assistant for cabinet affairs in
the governor’s office.

1955

Arthur L. Fern II has established a new firm in
West Hartford, Conn. The Fern Co. is an ‘‘in-
troducing broker’ in futures. It specializes in com-
mercial hedging for financial institutions and in
selecting managers for futures accounts.

Walter J. McGraw’s law firm, Williams, Mullen
& Christian, combined with another Richmond
firm to become Williams, Mullen, Christian &
Dobbins. In the new firm McGraw and Howard
W. Dobbins, ’42L, are fellow partners.

Emil J. Sulzberger Jr. is a charter member of the
Commonwealth Law Group Ltd. He lives in

Hampton, Va.
1956

Dr. Michael R. Dubin, who practices pulmonary
medicine in Glen Cove, N.Y., is president of the
American Lung Association of Nassau Suffolk and
president-elect of the New York Trudeau Socie-
ty, the medical arm of the American Lung Associa-
tion of New York state.

Robert C. Duval has been appointed comptroller
of McDonald Insulation Co., a major contractor
of commercial cold storage in Atlanta.

Wayne W. Fowler is co-owner of a real estate firm
in New Jersey. He and his wife, Harriet, live in
Murray Hill, N.J., and are the parents of three
sons, all of whom have completed college.

Herrick (Buzz) Hanson and his family operate The
Little Inn on the Bay in the Cannery Village sec-
tion of old Newport Beach, Calif., 40 miles south
of Los Angeles.

John K. Kane II has been appointed by Virginia
Gov. Gerald Baliles to serve on the Virginia
Boating Advisory Board. He lives in Yorktown,
Va.

William D. Manning is senior vice president of
sales and marketing for the Lubrizol Corp. He and
his wife, Carol, live in Gates Mills, Ohio, a suburb
of Cleveland. They have three daughters, ages 23,

22, and 17.
1957

Ross H. Bayard will become chairman of the Wof-
ford College history department in June 1987. He
lives in Spartanburg, S.C.

T. Robert Blair, nearing his 30th year in the
defense business, currently administers United
Kingdom contracts on the Trident II program and
handles about 75 percent of the missile program
in Europe for Lockheed.

Lenox B. (Buck) Buchanan Jr. and his family are
living in Brussels, Belgium, for four years while
he is managing director of Star-Kist Foods Europe.

Charles F. Davis is moving to Hong Kong to head
the Bank of Montreal activities in Asia and
Australasia. Davis has lived in Tokyo the past two
years.

Dr. Alfred J. Magoline Jr. has been practicing
otolaryngology in Akron since 1971. His son,
Michael, is a member of W&L’s Class of ’89.

1958
J. Gill Holland has published a chapbook of
translations from Chinese. Published by Briar-
patch Press in Davidson, N.C., it is titled Keep
an Eye on South Mountain. He and his wife, Siri,
have a daughter, Siri Lise, in W&L’s freshman
class.

C. Parkhill Mays Jr. has been a partner in the law
firm of Holland & Knight the past 20 years and
lives in Lakeland, Fla., with his wife and four
children. His son, C. Parkhill III, graduates from
W&L this June. Mays is on the management com-
mittee for Holland & Knight.

Richard P. Carter Jr. is president of CheMarlo

Inc., a specialty chemical distributor and manufac-
turer’s representative in Simpsonville, S.C.

Charles F. Davis (See 1957).

Dr. John C. Kotz has been appointed distinguished
teaching professor at Oneonta State University in
New York. The promotion is in recognition of his
excellence in teaching, active scholarship, and in-
ternational stature in the field of organic chemistry
during his 16 years at Oneonta.

Dr. Edward D. Levy Jr. is on the board of direc-
tors of the New Orleans Symphony Orchestra and
the medical executive committee of River Oaks
Hospital in New Orleans.

Laurence M. Smail was recently featured in the
‘*Your Neighbors’’ section of the Newport News
Daily Press in a story about the Lionel electric train
he received as a Christmas gift in 1941. Smail has
made it a family tradition to set up the 45-year-
old train and track under the Christmas tree in his
home each year.

1960

John T. Crone V is the new president of the San
Antonio chapter of the National Association of

 

Industrial and Office Parks. Crone is also presi-
dent of Ray Ellison Developments in San Antonio.

Charles T. Morse is a principal in The John O.
Todd Organization, which designs and administers
non-qualified executive benefit programs. As one
of the leading producers of Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Co., he was elected president of the
company’s nearly 7,000-person field force. Morse
has also assumed the responsibilities of chairman
of the board of Memorial Hospital of South Bend,

Ind.
1961

James H. Hamersley is a pilot for Continental
Airlines. He is based in Duxbury, Maine.

Ron L. Randel was presented the award for sell-
ing the most non-residential property in 1985 by
the Albuquerque, N.M., Board of Realtors.

Emil J. Sulzberger Jr. (See 1955).

1962

James N. Applebaum, vice president of Bio-Data
Corp. in Washington, D.C., has been named
editor of The AIDS Record, a national newslet-
ter for professionals concerned with the AIDS
epidemic. Applebaum and his wife, Laurie Muf-
son, an actress and director of theater and drama
at the Bullis School in Potomac, Md., live in Silver
Spring.

Harry G. Ballance Jr. is a captain with Delta Air
Lines. He and his wife and their four children live
in Atlanta.

Andrew J. Conroy has been elected vice president
of the American Cemetery Association. He lives
in Terrace Park, Ohio.

Alan M. Corwin and his wife, Robin, were recently
appointed to the Sister City Committee of Kiryat
Motzkin, Israel, by the Tacoma, Wash., City
Council. In addition, Corwin was appointed to the
Thurston County Planning Commission. He also
serves as chair of the North Thurston School
District’s Multi-Cultural Advisory Committee and
is on the board of Thurston County Big
Brothers/Big Sisters. Corwin is with Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc.

H. Allen Curran, professor of geology at Smith
College in Northampton, Mass., has published two
books in the last two years: Atlas of Landforms,
which is now in its third edition, and Biogenic

Structures, a volume on the use of such structures.

in geological interpretation.

Robert F. Norfleet Jr. has become president of
United Virginia Bankshares’ capital region. In this
position, Norfleet will manage the retail and com-
mercial operations at 34 branches in the Richmond
area.

Laurence M. Smail (See 1959).

1963

Gerald L. Kesten has a private law practice in Arl-
ington, Va.

J. Holmes Morrison was recently elected to One
Valley Bancorp’s affiliate bank board, Financial
Management Bancshares, in Morgantown, W.Va.
He has also been elected to the Charleston, W.Va.,
Chamber of Commerce and Development.

Louis A. Rosenstock III recently merged his law
firm to form a new partnership that includes
Robert B. Hill, ’79L, and Thomas O. Rainey III,
75. It is called Hill, Rainey & Rosenstock and is
located in Petersburg, Va.

H. Michael Walker, president of Guest Quarters’
Development Corp., has announced that Guest
Quarters has sold its entire hotel management

business, including the ‘‘Guest Quarters’’ trade
name, to the Beacon Hotel Corp. in Boston. The
Norfolk Development Co. still owns the real estate
and will continue in all types of real estate develop-

ment in the future. Walker lives in Virginia Beach.

Sherwood W. (Woody) Wise Jr. spent three weeks
in China in September 1986 on a lecture tour spon-
sored by the Ministry of Petroleum. Wise spoke
at the Chinese Academy of Science at Beijing,
petroleum colleges in Beijing and Hubei Province,
and an institute for marine science in Shanghai.

1964
MARRIAGE: William T. Braithwaite and Wen-
dy Ann Hesse on Dec. 20, 1986. Braithwaite is now
in his eighth year of teaching at Loyola Law School
in Chicago. He currently teaches torts, remedies,
Mosaic law, trial practice, and argument.

Dr. Arthur E. Broadus is currently section chief
for the division of endocrinology and metabolism
for the Yale University School of Medicine.

Britain H. Bryant received the ‘‘Clara Barton
Honor Award for Meritorious Volunteer Leader-
ship’? from the American Red Cross. Bryant is
president of the law firm of Britain H. Bryant and
Associates, with law offices in St. Croix and St.
John, U.S. Virgin Islands.

Bruce T. Chosney continues to practice medical
oncology and hematology in Sacramento, Calif.
He and his wife, Michele, have three children,
Gabrielle, 14, Brett, 12, and Craig, 4.

Jerome Turner is president-elect of the Memphis
and Shelby County Bar Association for 1987.

1965

Brooks G. Brown III is in private practice in
ophthalmology in Chevy Chase, Md. He and his
wife, Lise, have five children, Brook IV, 12; Elise,
14; Anne-Lamar, 10; Claire, 6; and Grant, 3.

Douglas V. Davis is still traveling for the FCC and
Department of State on international communica-
tions policy matters. His travels include Europe,
South America, and Japan, and his concentration
is in international telecommunications regulations
and new services and technology. He lives in Vien-
na, Va.

Andrew C. Kilpatrick is a business reporter for the
Birmingham Post-Herald. He and his wife, Kay,
have two children, Jack, 17, and Anna, 15.

John Larry Manning Jr., his wife, Diane, and their
daughter, Lisa, 6, moved from Washington, D.C.,
to London in June 1986. Manning is a partner in
the international law firm Jones, Day, Reavis &
Pogue. He specializes in international financial and
merger and acquisition matters.

Alan L. Marx has joined the law firm King &
Ballow, specializing in antitrust law for the
newspaper and communications industries. The
firm is based in Nashville, Tenn., but represents
newspapers from coast to coast.

Patterson H. Robertson is involved with in-
vestments, banking, and real estate in Austin,
Texas. He and his wife, Carol, have a son and a
daughter in college.

Duke R. Terrell Jr. was elected vice president of
Chubb & Son Inc. in December 1986. He lives in
Birmingham, Ala.

Norman Yoerg has been appointed chairman of
the economics committee of the American Bar
Association antitrust section. He currently is
responsible for the legal matters of the agricultural
division of American Cyanamid Co. in Wayne,
N.J.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Bradbury, a
son, Jeffrey, on Nov. 2, 1986. He joins two sisters,
Kate, 9, and Alison, 10. Bradbury is vice presi-
dent of institutional sales for Merrill Lynch in Los
Angeles. The family lives in Huntington Beach,
Calif.

Houston L. Bell Jr. has been appointed chief
operating officer of Roanoke Memorial Hospitals
and executive vice president of the Roanoke
Hospital Association. He lives in Salem, Va.

Charles N. Griffin transferred in 1986 to Panama
City, Republic of Panama, where he is general
manager of Kodak Panama Ltd. with overall
responsibility for Kodak’s presence and marketing
opportunities in all of Central America, Ecuador,
Bolivia, Paraguay, Belize, and the Grand Cayman
Islands.

Val S. McWhorter has been reappointed to the
George Mason University board of visitors by
Virginia Gov. Gerald Baliles. He was also elected
as vice rector of the board. He lives in Springfield,
Va.

Joseph G. Miller is a partner in William F. Miller
& Associates, manufacturer’s representatives. For
the second time, Miller was named representative
of the year nationally by Boat & Motor Dealer
magazine.

Phillip D. Mollere is assistant director of research
and development for Freeport-McMoran, a New
Orleans-based minerals, oil, and gas company. He
presented a paper on uranium recovery at the 1986
International Solvent Extraction Conference in
Munich, Germany. He lives in Belle Chasse, La.

Charles W. Reese Jr. has joined the law firm of
Lempres & Wulfsberg Professional Corp. in
Oakland, Calif., as a principal. He will head the
real estate section of the firm’s practice. Reese lives
in Piedmont, Calif., with his wife, Jill, and
daughters, Clarissa, 14, and Alexandra, 4.

William A. Schroeder III is executive vice presi-
dent of Gieseler Simmons Corp., an insurance
brokerage firm in New Orleans.

Jerome Turner (See 1964).

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Harden, a son,
Richard John, on June 28, 1985. The Hardens now
have three children and live in Dallas.

Howard J. Beck Jr., an associate with the law firm
of Glenn, Flippin, Feldmann & Darby, lectured
recently in a series of seminars sponsored by the
committee on continuing legal education of the
Virginia Law Foundation. The subject of the
seminars was ‘‘Fundamentals of Bankruptcy:
Substance and Procedure.”’

William T. Cunningham will be stationed at Ford
Ord, Calif., for another year and a half. He and
his wife, Jeannie, live near Monterey, Calif.

J.G. Blaine Ewing III is working for the invest-
ment firm of Robinson-Humphrey in Charleston,
S.C.

S. Bryant Kendrick received his doctor of ministry
degree from Southeastern Baptist Theological
Seminary in May 1986. He has been appointed to
the faculty of the Bowman Gray School of
Medicine at Wake Forest University, where he is
coordinator of the section on medical humanities.

Dr. Richard S. Kurz is associate professor and act-
ing director of the Center for Health Services
Education and Research at St. Louis University
Medical Center. His home is in Clayton, Mo.

W&L 31

 

Stephen T. McElhaney is an actuary with the Rich-

mond office of William M. Mercer-Meidinger Inc., —

a national employee benefit consulting firm.
J. Holmes Morrison (See 1963).

Dr. William H. Sledge recently graduated from the
Western New England Institute for Psycho-
analysis. He lives in New Haven, Conn.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Clapp, a_

daughter, Kathryn T., on May 8, 1986. Clapp is
senior vice president of Wells Fargo Bank with
responsibility for corporate lending in 12
Southeastern states. The family lives in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Thompson, a son,
Philip Clinton Jr., on Oct. 15, 1986. Thompson
and his wife, Julie, also have two daughters, Julia,
6, and Adair, 9. They live in Atlanta.

Charles C. Lewis, who teaches at Campbell
University School of Law, has published, with two
co-authors, a two-volume set on secured transac-
tions as part of a nine-volume national treatise ti-
tled Hawkland Uniform Commercial Code Series.

Steven R. Saunders was a member of the commis-
sioning committee of the USS Theodore Roosevelt,
the world’s largest aircraft carrier, commissioned
at Newport News, Va., on Oct. 25, 1986. He is
a trustee of the Theodore Roosevelt Association,
a foundation chartered by Congress in 1920 to
perpetuate the ‘‘ideals and memory”’ of President
Theodore Roosevelt. Saunders is managing direc-
tor of Saunders & Co., an international trade con-
sulting firm in Alexandria, Va.

1969
MARRIAGE: Dan W. Higgins Jr. and Jane
Porter on Dec. 10, 1986, in Crested Butte, Colo.
They live in Tulsa, Okla., where Higgins is vice
president of Merrill Lynch.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Henry L. (Roddy) Roediger
III, a daughter, Rebecca Schiller, on May 22, 1986.
Roediger is a professor of psychology at Purdue
University. The second edition of his best-selling
text, Psychology, was recently published by Lit-
tle, Brown & Co. Roediger continues as editor of
The Journal of Experimental Psychology.

G. William Allen Jr. is now a senior partner in
the southern Florida law firm of Walton, Lantaff.
He and his wife, Michele, and their daughter, Ka-
ty, live in Fort Lauderdale.

Mayo M. (Gill) Fitzhugh III is supervisory auditor
for the U.S. General Accounting Office in
Washington, D.C. He was the Northern Virginia
Amateur Golf Champion for 1986. He and his
wife, Francie, have two sons, Mayo M. IV and
Christian Grayson. The family lives in Fairfax, Va.

W. Steven Jones is house counsel for Atlantic
Richfield in Anchorage, Alaska.

M. Kenneth Long Jr. was re-elected in November
1986 to a four-year term as state’s attorney for
Washington County, Md.

Val S. McWhorter (See 1966).

Robert A. Moselle is chairman of the board of
RAM Industries Ltd., which produces and syn-
dicates home videos and television shows. He
maintains a general law practice in San Francisco.
John L. Smith Jr. is a partner with the
Chesapeake, Va., law firm of Outland, Gray,
O’Keefe & Hubbard. He and his wife, Rebecca,
and their two sons live in Norfolk.

Thomas C. Spencer (See 1986).

Dr. Michael C. Stevens is chief resident in

32. W&L

psychiatry at the University of Utah Medical
Center in Salt Lake City.

Dr. Charles E. Stewart has an orthopedic prac-
tice in Boca Raton, Fla. He specializes in knee
problems. He and his wife have two children, Cris-
ty, 6, and Chad, 5.

Michael C.L. Thompson, director of the upper
school and honors English teacher at the Coastal
Academy of Myrtle Beach, S.C., will soon have
a textbook and a computer program published by
Trillium Press of Monroe, N.Y. Thompson’s
book, The Word Within the Word, is a vocabulary
textbook designed for gifted and talented high
school students. His computer program sup-
plements the book and is designed to help students
drill on the Greek and Latin stems contained in
the text. Thompson previously taught at McDowell
High School in Marion, N.C., and in 1986 was
named western North Carolina’s Outstanding
Academically Gifted Teacher by the North
Carolina Association for the Gifted and Talented.

Stanley E. (Sandy) Zimmerman Jr. is senior vice
president of Marsh & McLennan Real Estate Ad-
visors Inc., an investment advisory and asset
management company in Greenwich, Conn. He
and his wife, Kathy, live in Wilton, Conn., and
have three daughters.

MARRIAGE: Joseph Darlington Raine Jr. and
Ellen Ann Christian on Dec. 19, 1986, in
Louisville, Ky.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. W. Lee Moffatt III, an ‘‘in
vitro fertilization’? son, Brian Lee, on May 21,
1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Richard Singeltary, a
son, Charles Richard, on Aug. 21, 1986. He joins
a brother, George Lee. Singeltary is a county judge
for Lake County, Fla. He and his wife, Tanina,
and their two sons live in Leesburg, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Whitlow Wyatt, a
daughter, Mary Radford, on Feb. 19, 1986. She
joins a brother, Whitlow, 12, and a sister, Sloane,
10. Wyatt is with Stringer, Wyatt & Williams, in-
vestment bankers in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Yates Jr., a
daughter, Sarah Mitchell, on Aug. 15, 1986. She
joins a brother, Charles III, 3. Yates and William
C. Tyler, 69, operate the Tyler/Yates Financial
Group in Atlanta.

Dr. W. John Bayard is a diagnostic radiologist in
private practice at Richland Memorial Hospital in
Columbia, S.C. He and his wife, Ruth, have a
daughter, Amanda, 5.

Wayne L. Bell is senior vice president and general
counsel to the United Co. in Bristol, Va.

Dr. Frank E. Fisher is assistant medical director
of the Lovelace Medical Foundation Clinical
Studies Division. He has also just become a private
pilot. He lives in Rio Rancho, N.M.

Marvin C. (Swede) Henberg is now professor of
philosophy at the University of Idaho. He con-
tinues as director of the university’s honors pro-
gram. He and his wife, Laurie, remain active in
various campaigns to preserve the environment.
They live in Moscow, Idaho.

John M. Kefauver Jr. has moved back to his
hometown of San Antonio, Texas, for a while to
start a remodeling adventure while waiting for
farming prices to improve.

David D. Kympton and his wife, Connie, have
moved to Alexandria, Va., where he is vice presi-

dent of public finance for the investment bank-
ing firm of Eden Hannon & Co.

Michael T. McVay has been elected secretary-
treasurer of the Huntington, W.Va., Board of
Realtors for 1987 and is chairman of the building
committee and a member of the budget commit-
tee. He has been secretary of the Kiwanis Day Care
Center board of directors since 1985.

Robert M. Solmson has been elected to the board
of directors of the National Bank of Commerce
in Memphis, Tenn. He is president of RFS Inc.,
a multi-faceted real estate firm involved in the
development, ownership, and management of
hotels, motels, office buildings, and shopping
centers in the Southeast and Midwest.

Kenneth C. Wallace Jr. is vice president in the
securities sales division for Goldman, Sachs & Co.
in Philadelphia. He recently completed construc-
tion of a solar house with his wife, Anne, and sons,
Kenneth C. III, 8, and Peyton T., 5.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John M. Duckworth, a son,
John Alexander, on Sept. 6, 1986. He joins a sister,
Sara, 3. The family lives in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Jensen, a son,
Clayton Joshua, on Dec. 19, 1985, in Fullerton,
Calif. Jensen is technical director of the theatre
department at Fullerton College. He directed
Mister Roberts in December 1986.

Harold H. Catlin has been elected vice president
of the Jacksonville Defense Counsel Association
and is a member of the board of governors of the
Jacksonville Bar Association in Jacksonville, Fla.

S. Stacy Eastland has been elected to the American
College of Probate Council. He is a partner in the
Houston office of the law firm of Baker & Botts.

Charles C. Lewis (See 1968).

Robert R. Radcliffe has been promoted to senior
manager of marketing programs for scientific com-
puting at Prime Computer. He is responsible for
introduction of new computers in scientific
markets worldwide.

Dr. Thomas E. Reynolds was elected president of
the medical staff at Culpeper (Va.) Memorial
Hospital for 1986-87. He and his wife, Charla,
have two sons, Keith, 7, and William, 3.

Jerrald J. Roehl has completed his term as presi-
dent of the New Mexico Defense Lawyers Associa-
tion, the statewide organization of civil defense
trial lawyers. He is president of the Albuquerque
law firm of Roehl & Henkel. He and his wife, Nan-
cy, have four children.

Philip C. Thompson (See 1968).

Joseph B. Tompkins Jr. of Alexandria, Va., was
elected chairman of the Virginia Council on Health
Regulatory Boards in October 1986. The council
oversees 10 health regulatory boards.

Bradfield F. Wright, an attorney in Houston, is
serving his sixth term in the Texas House of
Representatives. He and his wife have three
children.

Roger L. Young resigned from the Air Force in
September 1986 and has opened a general law prac-
tice in Goldsboro, N.C. He will continue to serve
in the USAF Reserve as a judge advocate to HQ
Tactical Air Command, Langley AFB, Va.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John P. Mello, a son, Peter
Richard, on Dec. 5, 1986, in Plymouth, Mass.
Mello is vice president of Development Sciences
Inc., an international engineering and financial

 

consulting firm. The family lives in Rochester,
Mass.

BIRTH: Mr and Mrs. Richard J. Splittorf, a son,
Bryan Richard, on Jan. 1, 1987. Bryan was the
first baby born in Wilton, Conn., in 1987 and the
announcement was published on the front page of
the Wilton Bulletin along with Bryan’s picture.
Splittorf is the eastern advertising manager for Bon
Appetit magazine in New York City.

James M. Ballengee has moved to La Jolla, Calif.,
where he is director of college placement/scholar-
ships at the Bishop’s School.

Dr. John B. Blalock Jr. is practicing general
surgery in Birmingham, Ala., where he lives with
his wife, Mary, and two children, Beverly, 9, and
John, 5.

Max F. Brantley is city editor of the Arkansas
Gazette in Little Rock. He has two children, Mar-
tha, 7, and Fritz, 1.

Robert G. Brookby is a junior vice president for
First Wachovia Bank in Winston-Salem, N.C. He
and his wife, Kathy, have three children, Mary
Beth, 7, Katy, 4, and Matthew, 1.

Peter A. Converse joined Century National Bank
in Washington, D.C., in May 1986 as executive
vice president and chief lending officer. He, his
wife, Kay, and daughter, Cari, 4, live in Annan-
dale, Va.

Bruce W. Cusson has been appointed assistant
trust operations officer for Union Trust Co. at the
bank’s New Haven executive office. He and his
wife, Cathy, live in Clinton, Conn., and have three
children, Craig, Ryan, and Eryn.

Bernard C. (Ben) Grigsby II has been elected
managing director of Kidder, Peabody & Co. Inc.,
where he manages the firm’s government bond
department. He and his wife, Carol, live in Rye,
N.Y.

For the past 10 years Robert R. Hatten has been
lead counsel for the plaintiffs in approximately 700
products liability claims against asbestos manufac-
turers for disabilities and deaths arising out of
asbestos exposure in Virginia shipyards.

William K. Millkey was promoted to vice presi-
dent of Beers Construction Builders in Atlanta and
is managing $25 million in construction.

Meryl D. Moore is a partner in the law firm of
Jones, Blechman, Woltz & Kelly in Newport News,
Va. He and his wife, Joyce, have a 1-year-old
daughter, Jennifer Leigh.

Craig R. Nelson has been appointed vice president
of engineering at EMCORE in South Plainfield,
N.J., a maker of metal organic chemical vapor
deposition systems.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. Mark Braden, a son,
Marshall Frank, on Sept. 3, 1986, in Alexandria,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Archer Frierson II, a
daughter, Elizabeth Basinger, on June 21, 1986.
She joins two brothers and a sister. Frierson has
been re-elected to Caddo Parish School Board for
a four-year term beginning in January 1987. He
was also selected ‘‘Outstanding Young Farmer’’
for 1986 in Louisiana by the state Jaycees. The
family lives in Shreveport, La.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Hillman, a son,
John Thomas, on July 4, 1986. He joins a brother,
David Layne, 4. The family lives in Raleigh, N.C.
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jay H. Kern, a daughter,
Cindy Beth, on Aug. 12, 1986. Kern is a partner

 

 

 

The seventh annual Alumni Basketball Game was held in January. Jay Fechtel, ’83, had
19 points to lead the Gold past the Navy Blue, which got 23 points from Brian Hanson, ’83.
Front row, from left, Dave Wilkinson, ’85; Chris Baldwin, ’84; Gill Fitzhugh, ’69; Mike Wenke,
°79; Doug Clelan, ’73; Tom Jefferies, ’80; R.J. Scaggs, ’81; Second row, from left, Brian Han-
son, ’83; Bill Yates, ’84; Jeff Baum, ’76; Norwood Morrison, ’70; Greg Croghan, ’75; Stu Fauber,
°70; Tracey Hodge, ’79; John Podgajny, ’76; Back row, from left, Bob Flint, ’77; Scott Shan-
non, ’85; Don Berlin, ’77; Frank Eppes, ’83; Randy Taylor, ’75; John Lee Graves, ’84; Dave
Leunig, ’80; Jay Fechtel, ’83; Brad Lewis, ’81.

 

 

 

with the law firm of Simon, Peragine, Smith &
Redfearn in New Orleans and is a member of the
executive committee of the Sugar Bowl.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gregory B. Robertson, a
daughter, Kathryn Branch, on Aug. 21, 1986, in
Richmond.

John C. Baldwin is still practicing law with Ober,
Kaler, Grimes & Shriver in Baltimore.

George E. Calvert Jr. joined the municipal finance
department of Craigie Inc. in Richmond after six
and one half years in the Virginia State Treasury.

H. William Christ has been named head of the
Hathaway Brown School in Cleveland Heights,
Ohio. He was previously head of the upper school
at Agnes Irwin School in suburban Philadelphia.

Dr. Richard C. Crittenden is practicing internal
medicine in Birmingham, Ala. He and his wife,
Babs, have two children, Cosby, 2, and Wink, 7
months.

William M. Gannon is director of marketing for
First Consulting Group, health care consultants
in San Francisco. A part-time actor, he has ap-
peared in local TV commercials and has a small
part in the forthcoming movie Wildfire.

Richard L. Harden (See 1967).

Bruce N. Hasfurther is teaching French at Fork
Union Military Academy in Fork Union, Va.

J. Jason Matthews is vice consul and ambassador’s
staff aide in Budapest. He and his wife, Suzanne,
plan to finish their tour in Budapest in the sum-
mer of 1987 and return to Washington and the
Department of State’s Bureau of European and
Canadian Affairs for at least one year before
heading overseas again.

Alan J. Prater, a lieutenant with the Roanoke Ci-
ty Police Department, has started a company,
Safer Self Concepts, which will produce and
market videotapes on personal safety and securi-
ty. The company will provide seminar-type train-
ing On assertiveness, rape and assault prevention,
and self-defense for women.

Dale M. (Dusty) Rhodes, former vice president of
Citizens and Southern Bank of South Carolina,
has been named controller of the South Carolina
Tax Commission. He will be responsible for all
internal budgeting and financial management for
the tax commission. He is also a part-time teaching
associate at the University of South Carolina Col-
lege of Business, where he teaches accounting,
statistics, and probability and operations research.
He and his wife, Sandra, have one child and live
in Gardendale, S.C.

George M. Rounds III is a software engineer at
Scientific-Atlanta. He lives in Atlanta with his wife
and two daughters, Allison, 5, and Hayley, 2.

John F. Smith is a houseparent for Vision Quest,
a rehabilitation program for delinquent youth. The
facility is an alternative to incarceration in lock-
up facilities. He lives in Franklin, Pa.

Howard F. Snyder is a radiologist in Rock Hill,
S.C. He and his wife, Florence, have two sons,
Jennings Hudnall, 2, and Robert Welles, 1.

George B. Wolfe is a corporate partner in the Col-
umbia, S.C., law firm of Nelson, Mullins, Grier
& Scarborough.

1974
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Craig M. Hankins, a son,
David Ashton, on Sept. 24, 1986. He joins a
brother, Ryan Andrew, 2. Hankins is an or-
thopedic surgeon in Daytona Beach, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John E. Lane III, a
daughter, Diana Renee, on Sept. 9, 1986. She joins
a brother, Mark, 3. Lane is active in legal prac-
tice and real estate management. The family lives
in Altavista, Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. William R. LaRosa Jr., a
son, William Robert III, on Aug. 14, 1986, in
Belleair, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William P. Wallace Jr., a
daughter, Emily Kate, on Dec. 19, 1986. She joins
two brothers, Paul, 6, and Matthew, 3. Wallace

W&L 33

 

is a partner with the Roanoke law firm of Woods,
Rogers & Hazelgrove.

Jeffrey D. Burke is a controller with St. Mary’s
Hospital in Richmond.

Maj. David V. Finnell had an article published in
the September 1986 issue of the Civil War
magazine Blue and Gray about the Union cavalry
leader Gen. George Bayard.

Duncan S. Klinedinst was made a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Hogan & Hartson.

Alan W. Leme is a data processing technical coor-
dinator for the Hartford’s Individual Life and
Health/Annuity Division in Simsbury, Conn. He
is vice president of the Northwood Townhouse
Condominium Association in Manchester, Conn.

Dr. Richard S. McCain, an orthopedic surgeon in
Columbia, S.C., has been named a fellow of the
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, the
largest medical association for muscoskeletal
specialties.

Geoffrey N. Nolan formed Walker & Dunlop
Southeast Inc., a subsidiary of Walker & Dunlop
in Washington, D.C., in October 1986. As presi-
dent of the new subsidiary operating in real estate
and financial services, he caters to large national
investors in real estate. Charles B. Wilson II, ’75,
has joined him as a partner and executive vice
president of the company. Walker & Dunlop in
Washington also employs W&L graduates Howard
W. Smith III, ’80, and Guy T. Steuart III, ’80.

Dr. Michael D. Peppler is in private practice with
a large, single specialty medical group in Norfolk,
Va. The firm is called Psychiatric Associates of
Tidewater.

R.C. Steele Jr. is assistant vice president of labor
relations for Southern Railway Co. in Atlanta.

Charles E. Taylor is a partner in the law firm of
Silverstein & Mullens in Washington, D.C. The
firm specializes in federal taxation, and Taylor
specializes in probate administration and estate
planning.

J. Timothy Thompson is vice president/branch
manager of E.F. Hutton & Co. in Alexandria, Va.
He and his wife, Catherine, have two children,
John, 9, and Cate, 2.

MARRIAGE: Gregg B. Amonette and Susan
Elizabeth Palasthy in Martinsville, Va., on Dec.

6, 1986. The couple lives in Chicago.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Paul G. Firth, a daughter,
Stephanie Paula, on April 15, 1986, in Hinesville,
Ga. Firth is chief ob-gyn at the U.S. Army Medical
Corps in Fort Stewart, Ga. He is also diplomate
of the American Board Ob-Gyn and Fellow of the
American College Ob-Gyn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Jones, a
daughter, Honor, on Feb. 4, 1986. The family lives
in Glastonbury, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Matthew R. Krafft, a son,
Matthew Richard Jr., on Oct. 26, 1986, in
Bethesda, Md.

BIRTH: Mr and Mrs. Louis Alexander LeLaurin
III, a daughter, Madeleine Elaine, on Nov. 21,
1986. The family lives in San Antonio, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stuart B. Nibley, a son,
Stoddert Browder, on Sept. 25, 1986, in Bethesda,
Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas O. Rainey III, a
daughter, Kelly A., on March 21, 1986. Rainey
was elected commonwealth’s attorney of Dinwid-
die County, Va., in November 1986 and continues

34. W&L

to maintain a part-time law practice with Robert
B. Hill, ’79L.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Peter J. Schneider, a son,
Jeffrey Michael, on June 5, 1986. He joins brother
Paul, 6, and sister Amanda, 3. Schneider will com-
plete his ob-gyn residency training at Bowman
Gray School of Medicine in June 1987 and will
begin his practice at University Memorial Hospital
in Charlotte.

Robert A. Cook has joined the law firm of Willkie,
Farr & Gallagher in Washington, D.C., as an
associate. Cook is currently chairman of the
Maryland State Bar Association’s subcommittee
on consumer credit.

Douglas V. Davis (See 1965).

Murray T. Holland, a partner with the Dallas law
firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, has
accepted a position as vice president of the mergers
and acquisitions division of the First Boston Corp.
of New York City. Holland will work with the
company in New York until September 1987 when
he will return to Dallas to open the mergers and
acquisitions office.

Michael Kurilecz Jr. is vice president and manager
of corporate lending for First City Bank in Dallas.

Paul J. Lancaster is a radio and television writer
and producer for Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va.

Robert M. Lander II is of counsel to the firm
Weinstein and Schneider in Port Jervis, N.Y.

J. William Lassetter is affiliated with Connie
Morgan Realty in Tallahassee, Fla., where he is
specializing in residential sales and is also con-
tinuing with architectural design. His recent work
includes interiors for the new Studio 21 in
downtown Tallahassee, as well as restorations and
additions to two historic Tallahassee homes.

Maj. John McClurkin is the chief legal assistance
officer at the Joint Law Center of the Marine
Corps Air Station in Cherry Point, N.C. He just
finished a three-year tour of duty on Okinawa,
Japan. *-

Carter H. Moore has been promoted to the posi-
tion of area landman in charge of Amoco Produc-
tion Co.’s land development operations in eastern
New Mexico and a portion of west Texas. Carter
and his wife, Francie, have a daughter, Emily, and

live in Houston.

MARRIAGE: John S. Norris Jr. and Amy Kyker
on Dec. 21, 1986. They live in Virginia Beach,
where Norris is a partner in the law firm of Ander-
son & Padrick.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Don N. Bryant III, a

daughter, Helen Tyler, on Nov. 10, 1986. The

Bryants now have three children and live in
Tallahassee, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary T. Fitzgerald, a
daughter, Lauren, on May 29, 1986. She joins a
brother, Michael, 3. Fitzgerald was recently pro-
moted to president of Meister Publishing Co. in
Chesterland, Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. Craig Graham, a
daughter, Patricia Anne, on Jan. 22, 1986.

BIRTH: Michael B. Hubbard and Clara S. Smith,
°81L, a son, Andrew Braden, on July 20, 1986.
They live in Douglas, Wyo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. S. Michael McColloch, a
daughter, Anne Lindsey, on July 4, 1986.
McColloch is a partner with the Dallas law firm
of Bruner, McColl & McColloch, specializing in
criminal defense litigation in state and federal

courts, primarily in business crime prosecutions.
He is also chairman of the criminal justice com-
mittee of the Dallas Bar Association. Since enter-
ing private practice in 1981, he has published five
law review articles and one two-volume practice
manual on criminal law and procedure. He lives
in Dallas with his wife, Janet, who is also an
attorney.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Frederick L. Silbernagel,
a son, John Lakin Ray, in March 1986. He joins
a brother, Lawrence. The family lives in Bethesda,
Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Smith Jr., a son,
Scott Pace, on Jan. 3, 1986. Smith opened a third
location of the Richmond-based Bob’s Cameras
in August 1986. He now has two full-time retail
stores and one photofinishing lab. He is also on
the finance committee and the board of ad-
ministrators of River Road Baptist Church in Rich-
mond, where he teaches 8th-grade Sunday school
and began a three-year term as a deacon in January
1987.

Perry W. Bartsch Jr. is president of the A&B Con-
struction and Development Corp. of Asheville,
N.C.

Alex Edwards-Bourdrez has begun a new job
teaching middle- and upper-school French and
coaching soccer at Friends Academy in Locust
Valley, N.Y.

E. Mark Braden (See 1973).

Frank L. Duemmler recently started his own com-
pany, Spectra Financial Corp., a real estate and
small business finance and investment firm in
Greenwich, Conn.

Jay R. Fries has become a partner in the Baltimore
law firm of Kruchko & Fries. The firm represents
management in all areas of labor and employment
law.

Robert L. Hillman (See 1973).

R. Brooke Lewis is a Federal Aviation Administra-
tion trial lawyer and has an investigation/loss ad-
justment firm in Northern Virginia. He and his
wife, Priscilla, live in Arlington, Va.

Terrence L. McCartin has been named manager
of operations project management for ITT
Gilfillan in Van Nuys, Calif. He and his wife, Mar-
cia, live in Canoga Park, Calif.

Jonathan L. Spear is now area marketing counsel
for IBM in Atlanta. He has responsibility for
IBM’s legal affairs in the South Atlantic states.

1977
MARRIAGE: Michael J. Knapp and Lia Saroyan
in Portland, Ore., on Nov. 28, 1986. Knapp pros-
ecutes felony property crimes for the Multnomah
County district attorney’s office.

MARRIAGE: Dr. Earl W. (Sandy) Stradtman Jr.
and Dr. Cecilia I. McGilvray on Aug. 9, 1986.
Stradtman is an instructor in obstetrics and
gynecology at University Hospital in Birmingham,
Ala., where his wife is a third-year resident in
ob-gyn.

MARRIAGE: Frank Keech Turner Jr. and Fran-
cis Connerat Sanders on Oct. 4, 1986. His brother,
William G. Turner, ’78, was best man. Also in the
wedding party were Robert P. Turner, ’83; Ed-
ward C. Hancock, ’77; Barry O. Barlow, ’77; Lee
M. Kennedy, ’77; David A. Kennedy, ’76; and
Phillip A. Heldrich, ’79. The Turners live in
Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. James R. Brooks, a son,
James R. Jr., on Feb. 23, 1986. He joins a sister,

 

Lanier. Brooks is a vice president with Gieseler
Simmons/Fred S. James Corp. in New Orleans,
where he lives with his wife, Katherine, and
children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. William D. Cantler II, a
son, David Entwistle, on Oct. 28, 1986. Cantler
is a theatre director in New York City, where he
is producing and directing the ‘‘Class 1 Acts’’ one-
act play festival.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Douglass W. Dewing, a
son, Christopher Michael, on Oct. 3, 1986. He
joins two brothers, Neal, 3, and Rob, 2. The fami-
ly lives in Portsmouth, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. Denny Gaultney, a son,
Walker Tift, on Nov. 24, 1986, in Jacksonville,
Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stephen D. Good, a son,
Christopher George, on May 25, 1986. Good is
a partner in the Dallas law firm of Hughes & Luce.

BIRTH: Robert W. Goodlatte and Maryellen F.
Goodlatte, ’78L, a son, Robert Sean, on June 30,
1986, in Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Larkin Jr., a son,
Robert Whittle, on Aug. 31, 1986. The family lives
in Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John A. Magee V, a son,
John Jr., on Nov. 5, 1986. Magee is a vice presi-
dent with First Union Bank in the construction
lending division. The family lives in Charlotte.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Yancey, a son,
Andrew, on May 15, 1986. The family lives in Falls
Church, Va.

Dr. Sol G. Brotman is a clinical instructor at the
University of Florida Dental School and Jackson-
ville Health Education Programs. He is also presi-
dent of the Jacksonville Lacrosse Club and averag-
ed over one goal a game during the 1985-86 season.
The team went to the state championship and was
in the final four during 1986. Ray McNulty, ’80,
also plays on the team.

Scott A. Carlson is currently vice president in the
corporate finance department of Dillon, Read &
Co. Inc. in New York City.

William E. Craver III is a partner in the law firm
of Robinson, Craver, Wall & Hastie in Charleston,
S.C., where he and his wife, Anne, live.

J. Marshall Dean III is vice president for Harwick
Chemical Corp. He handles all sales responsibili-
ty for the Southwest and works out of the Dallas
office.

Richard C. Everett Jr. is now with Tatham-Laird
& Kudner in Chicago, where he is senior account
supervisor for advertising responsibility on R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Adolph Coors Co. He
and his wife, Julie, live in Wilmette, IIl.

W. Scott Franklin is a product manager for Tyson
Foods in Fayetteville, Ark., where he and his wife,
Karen, live.

Steven N. Gabelman is market manager in Union
Carbide’s specialty chemicals division. He and his
wife, Amy, and their three children, twin girls
Elizabeth Anne and Rebecca Leigh, 1, and Barry
Paul, 3, live in New Fairfield, Conn.

Elizabeth Toni Guarino is associate food and drug
counsel with Kraft Inc. in Glenview, Ill. She took
that position after nine years of government ser-
vice in Washington, D.C., including six years with
the Federal Trade Commission.

Dr. Bolling C. Haygood has started a private prac-
tice in pulmonary medicine in Baton Rouge, La.

Dr. E. Claiborne Irby Jr. is completing a

postgraduate fellowship in spine surgery in
Houston. He will return to Richmond in July to
begin private practice. He and his wife, Michelle,
have two children, E. Claiborne III, 4, and Sarah,
&

Christopher A. Johnson is an associate in the high
yield bond group at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
in New York. He and his wife, Sandy, live in
Bronxville, N.Y.

Walter D. Kelley Jr. is a partner in the Norfolk,
Va., law firm of Willcox & Savage. His law school
roommate, James S. McNider III, ’78, ’81L, isa
partner in the same firm.

William J. Kerr is a manager with Arthur
Andersen and is chairman of the Young
Republican Organization of Illinois. He and his
wife had a son, William James, in 1985. The family
lives in Wheaton, IIl.

Mark A. Krieger III is executive vice president of
John D. Lucas Printing Co. in Baltimore. He and
his wife, Ruth, have a son, Mark A. IV, 3.

R. Mark Payne graduated from the University of
Texas Medical School at Houston in 1983 and
entered pediatric residency at Washington Univer-
sity (St. Louis Children’s Hospital) in St. Louis,
where he became chief resident in pediatrics after
completing his residency in July 1986. He was mar-
ried to Helen Gibbs in December 1984.

Curtis G. Power is a trial attorney with the law
firm of Avey & Steptoe in Martinsburg, W.Va.,
where he and his wife, Faith, live.

Dr. Agrippa G. Robert Jr. of Harvey, La., was
elected to fellowship in the American Academy of
Pediatrics at a recent meeting of that organiza-
tion’s executive board.

Roger P. Rydell has been named vice president and
account supervisor at Ketchum Public Relations
in Philadelphia. Rydell had been vice president of
public relations for the Trailways Corp. in Dallas.

William P. Wallace Jr. (See 1974).

Dr. Isaac L. Wornom III has completed his
residency in general surgery at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham and is currently a resi-
dent in plastic surgery at Emory University in
Atlanta. He and his wife, Susan, have one son,
Christopher, who is almost a year old.

1978
MARRIAGE: Steven G. Schwartz and Debra
Ryals on April 26, 1986. Schwartz is legal counsel
and claims manager of Boat Owners Association
of the U.S. and Boat America Corp. He has moved
his law practice to Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Clement D. Carter, a son,
William Dean, on July 14, 1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Stieff III, a son,
C. Clinton IV, on Nov. 13, 1986. Stieff is now an
investment representative with Alex. Brown & Sons
in Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. Williams, a son,
Mason Hayes, on Oct. 26, 1986, in Palmyra, Va.
Williams was married to Vicki A. Morgan in
August 1983.

Maurice G. Adams is major account manager for
MCI Telecommunications in Baltimore.

David G. Carpenter manages the Dallas office of
Lucas Associates Inc., a national executive
recruiting firm headquartered in Atlanta.

Dr. James T. Christmas expects to finish his ob-
gyn residency at the Medical University of South
Carolina in June 1987 and go on to a research
fellowship in maternal/fetal medicine at Parkland

Hospital in Dallas. He and his wife, Brenda, live
in Charleston.

Richard W. Duncan, a 1985 graduate of the
University of Texas Law School, is practicing
banking law in San Antonio, Texas. He lives there
with his wife, Mary, who is also an attorney.

David P. Falck is a partner with the firm Win-
throp, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts in New York
City. He and his wife, Sally Pruett Falck, ’80L,
have two daughters, Claire and Sarah, and live in
Glen Rock, N.J.

Maryellen F. Goodlatte (See 1977).

John M. Hill is an associate attorney with Hutch-
ison, Price, Boyle & Brooks in Dallas. He has a
daughter, Elisabeth Foster, 2.

Michael K. Jackson is senior assistant city attorney
for Richmond. He is also a major staff judge ad-
vocate in the Virginia National Guard. He and his
wife, Beverly, have two children, Michael C., 13,
and Lelia, 7.

Howard F. Knipp III retired more than two years
ago from teaching at the Gilman School in
Baltimore and is currently the purchasing agent
for Knipp and Co., an architectural millwork com-
pany located in south Baltimore.

Henry S. McKelway is in the Ph.D. program in
archaeology at the University of Tennessee in
Knoxville, where his wife, Mickie, works for Hun-
ton & Williams.

O. Warren Mowry Jr. is on the board of direc-
tors of the Legal Services of Western Carolina
(Regional Legal Aid Agency) and on the board of
directors for the Warehouse Theatre in Greenville,
S.C., where he had the lead in two of last year’s
productions. Mowry is still an assistant solicitor
for the 13th Judicial Circuit in South Carolina,
but transferred after five years from the Pickens
County office to the Greenville office.

Kenneth F. Parks has left the firm Hall, Monahan,
Engle, Mahan & Mitchell to join the law offices
of Woodrow W. Turner Jr. in Leesburg, Va.

Dr. John F. Tompkins II joined his father, Dr.
S. Fulton Tompkins, ’37, in the practice of or-
thopedic surgery in Oklahoma City after com-
pleting his residency in orthopedic surgery at the
University of Oklahoma and a fellowship at Ran-
cho Los Amigo Medical Center in Downey, Calif.

Capt. Roland B. Walters has transferred from
U.S. Mil Group, El Salvador, to the G-2 9th
Marine Amphibious Brigade in Okinawa, Japan,
where he lives with his wife, Itsuko, and three
children, Roland, Artemesia, and Emille.

Richard T. Zink is associate vice president of in-

vestments with Prudential-Bache Securities in

Baltimore.

1979
MARRIAGE: Donald Wayne Crossley and Sheila
Lynn Shirm on Dec. 6, 1986, in Cleveland.
Crossley is president and a director of Central
Michigan Container Corp.

MARRIAGE: Douglas K. Willis and Nancy Bar-
rett Scruggs on May 17, 1986. Members of the
wedding party included Drew Sims, ’79, and Rick
Moran, ’80. The couple lives in the Philadelphia
area where both work for IBM.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. John C. Tompkins, a son,
Scott Francis, on June 30, 1986. He joins a
brother, John C. Jr., 2. The family lives in Luther-
ville, Md.

J. Peter Clements was promoted to vice president
of the Bank of Southside Virginia in December.

W&L = 35

 

William L. Hallam is now associated with the firm

of Gebhardt & Smith in Baltimore. His practice —

continues to be concentrated in the areas of
bankruptcy and commercial litigation.

Robert B. Hill (See Louis A. Rosenstock, 1963).
Michael B. Hubbard (See 1976).

John T. Jessee, a partner in the Roanoke firm of
Woods, Rogers & Hazelgrove, was voted
‘‘Outstanding Young Man of Roanoke’’ for 1986.
He is in his second term as president of the
Southwest Virginia Opera Society and was presi-
dent of the Roanoke Valley Historical Society.

Stuart B. Nibley (See 1975).

Gary J. Podesta and his wife, Edith, received
master of science degrees in physical therapy from
Columbia University in 1983 and are practicing in
the San Jose area. Podesta is also head lacrosse
coach at Santa Clara University. They have a
daughter, Monika.

James R. Shoemaker is now with the Frederick,
Md., law firm of Shoemaker, Hormon & Clapp.

Bruce Andre Williams is president and senior part-
ner of Howard, Smith & Williams First Affiliated
Securities Inc., a full-service brokerage firm in
Dallas. He was selected for ‘‘Outstanding Young
Men in America’’ for 1985 and 1986. He and his
wife, Gwen, live in Grand Prairie, Texas, with their
son, Christopher Andre.

MARRIAGE: Abney S. Boxley and Martha
Elizabeth Brown on Sept. 27, 1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Atkinson Jr., a
son, Stewart IV, on Aug. 10, 1986, in Fort
Thomas, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Henson, a son,
Blair Barnes, on Aug. 5, 1986. He joins two
brothers, Andy, 7, and Breck, 2. The family lives
in Charlotte.

Edward I. Curry III is working for the Luckett
law firm in Memphis, Tenn., where he and his
wife, Virginia, live with their 1-year-old daughter,
Julia Donelson.

Sally Pruett Falck (See 1978).

Paul C. Hendry received a master’s degree in
education from UCLA in 1986 and is teaching high
school English in Los Angeles.

Murray T. Holland (See 1975).

Norris L. Laffitte is president of Colleton Coun-
ty Railroad Co., president-elect of Hampton
Rotary Club, chairman of Hampton County
Watermelon Festival, and chairman of the
Southern Shortline Railroad Conference.

Kevin F. McGowan has completed a computer
programming course with the Maryland state
department of vocational rehabilitation and is now
staff manager in information systems with C&P
Telephone Co.

R. Marsh Merriman Jr. is an associate with the
Greensboro, N.C., law firm of Brooks, Pierce,
McLendon, Humphrey & Leonard. He and his
wife, Sarah, live in Greensboro.

Douglas A. Peckham moved to Bombay, India,
in April 1986 as a representative for Manufacturers
Hanover Trust.

Alan J. Prater (See 1973).

Jesse F. Suber joined the law firm of Henry,
Buchanan, Mick & English in Tallahassee, Fla.,
as an associate.

36 = W&L

 

Elizabeth Turley recently joined the Chicago law
firm of Jenner & Bloch as an associate.

MARRIAGE: Lawrence G. Davis and Kimberley
Conner, on Jan. 24, 1987, in Wilmington, Del.

MARRIAGE: Gerrald A. Giblin Jr. and Marian-
na Bruce on Oct. 4, 1986, in Houston. Members
of the wedding party included J. Scott Cardozo,
°81; Marshall A. Clark, ’81; Christopher M.
Giblin, ’90; Channing M. Hall, ’82; J. Bruce
Moore, ’81; H. Frederick T. Moore, ’80; Edward
C. Morrison, ’80; C. Penn Owen III, ’81; Patrick
M. Robinson, ’81; and Richard W. Salmons Jr.,
81.

MARRIAGE: Geoffrey P. Sisk and Jennifer
Lambert on June 14, 1986, in Tulsa, Okla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Calderone, a sec-
ond son, Christopher, on Dec. 20, 1986.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. Spencer Leffel, a son,
Mark Spencer, on Dec. 9, 1986.

Kathleen M. Fenton-Jessee is vice president of the
Roanoke Symphony Auxiliary and was voted
Outstanding Young Woman of Roanoke for 1986.

Robert P. Gordon III is a senior in the regulated
industries division of Arthur Andersen & Co. He
lives in Chicago.

Christopher H. Greatwood has successfully com-
pleted the preparation and qualification as chief
engineer of a naval nuclear propulsion plant. He
is teaching at the Naval Submarine School in
Groton, Conn.

Jeffrey W. Hamill has been named Southeastern
advertising manager for Redbook magazine. He
lives in New York City.

Walter D. Kelley Jr. (See 1977).

Bradley A. Lewis is federal sales manager for
Media Cybernetics Inc., a computer graphics and
image processing company in Silver Spring, Md.

Clara S. Smith (See Michael B. Hubbard, 1976).

Douglas W. Werth is assistant to the controller for
the Pittston Coal Group of the Pittston Co. Werth
and his wife, Sara, have two daughters, Amy, 4,
and Katie, 2, and live in Abingdon, Va.

1982

MARRIAGE: J. Thad Ellis If and Mary Beth
Cross, on June 28, 1986, in Atlanta. Members of
the wedding party included: Tripp Brower, ’82;
Randy Ellis, ’86; Syd Farrar, ’80; Robert Griffith,
°83; Hank Hall, ’79; Craig Jones, ’73; Jeff Mad-
dox, ’84; Jeff Milstead, ’81; Bert Ponder, ’83;
Kevin Ryan, ’82L; Gary Shaffer, ’81; Chip Skin-
ner, °84; Reynolds Thompson, ’85; and Richard
Wiles, ’79. Ellis is with Peterson Properties in
Atlanta.

MARRIAGE: William J.D. Somerville III and
Deborah A. Corey on Aug. 9, 1986. Somerville
completed a law degree in December 1986 at the
University of Baltimore. He has been clerking for
Judge E.O. Weant Jr. of the Court of Special Ap-
peals of Maryland.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Agnew, a
daughter, Margaret Christine, on Dec. 26, 1986.
The Agnews live in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. F. Bradley Scholtz, a son,
Jeffrey Henry, on Aug. 28, 1986. The family lives
in Norwalk, Conn.

John E. Fowler is now with Most Industries in An-
dover, Mass., where he is assisting with the
development of an on-line computer system. He
and his wife, Violet, live in Arlington, Mass.

Capt. Anthony Ierardi is assigned to the 2nd
Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment,
Bamberg, West Germany. He and Heather J.
Johnson were married in 1984.

Charles A. James Jr. is a senior systems consul-
tant with Companion Technologies in Columbia,
S.C.

Kenneth S. Lucas Jr. is an associate with the
Greensboro, N.C., law firm of Dees, Giles, Ted-
der, Tate & Wall.

Nelson E. Ould has entered the master of divinity
program at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary
in Boston, after four years in the corporate lend-
ing department of Wachovia Bank.

Thomas A. Pizzano is a captain in the U.S. Ar-
my Field Artillery. He is attending the officers’
advanced course in Fort Sill, Okla. Pizzano is
scheduled to be stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C., in
June 1987.

Walter R. Randall Jr. is a third-year law student
at the University of Kansas School of Law and a
member of the Kansas Law Review. He and his
wife, Julie, live in Kansas City, Kan.

Thomas Y. Savage, an attorney in Fredericksburg,
Va., recently announced he will seek the
Democratic nomination to oppose Republican Del.
Thomas M. Moncure Jr. for a seat in the Virginia
House of Delegates representing the 53rd House
District.

Douglas G. Sheldon is with Capital Cities/ABC
as national sales manager of WBAP-AM/
KSCS-FM.

James L. Shepherd will join the public law sec-
tion of Vinson & Elkins in Houston, following his
term at the Supreme Court of Texas.

James R. Shoemaker (See 1979).

Tom M. Southall is assistant to the vice provost
at the American University in Washington, D.C.

 

Southall is working towards a master’s degree in
computer science.

Robert M. Waymouth, who received his Ph.D. in
chemistry from Caltech, is now at the Swiss
Technical University in Zurich for a year of
postdoctoral work.

Daniel L. Weiss was recently elected vice president
and appointed manager of the trade, finance, and
project lending department of the international
division at the National Bank of Washington, D.C.
He lives in Rockville, Md.

1983
MARRIAGE: Richard A. Baer and Rebecca
Wallace Schwegler on May 3, 1986, in Virginia
Beach. Baer is a management trainee with First
Virginia Bank of Tidewater, Va.

MARRIAGE: Robert S. Carpenter and Melissa
Gail Morehead of Cincinnati, on Aug. 23, 1986.
They live in Ruxton, Md.

MARRIAGE: James C. McCabe and Mary Ellen
Fulks on July 26, 1986, in Huntington, W.Va.
McCabe is in his third year of medical school at
Marshall University School of Medicine in
Huntington.

MARRIAGE: 1st Lt. David P. Ridlon and

Kathleen A. Costello on Aug. 16, 1986, in’

Washington, D.C. Scott S. Bond, ’83, was best
man. Other W&L graduates in the wedding were
Bennett L. Ross, ’83; Michael Gregory, ’83; and
James C. McCabe, ’83. Ridlon is still with the 82nd
Airborne Division in Fort Bragg, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. Stuart Kiehne, a girl, |

Sara Michelle, on Oct. 1, 1986. Kiehne is assis-
tant vice president in the commercial lending
department of Maryland National Bank. The fami-
ly lives in Annapolis, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Price Morrison Jr., a
daughter, Ruth McCaughan, on Jan. 13, 1986. The
family lives in Memphis, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gordon W. Stewart, a
daughter, Meredith Conway, on Dec. 31, 1986, in
Wilmington, Del.

James R. Black will graduate from Tulane Univer-
sity’s School of Architecture in May 1987.

David C. Bowen is a federal law clerk for the U.S.
Federal District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia. In October 1987 he will become an
associate with the Norfolk law firm of Willcox and
Savage. -

After three years as sales manager in the Tokyo
office, Stephen H. Denny has been transferred by
Corton Systems Corp. to Los Angeles to open a
new Office. He will be sales and marketing
manager for Corton Group, North America,
whose products include electronic assemblies and
components and precision optic equipment, all
manufactured in Japan and Taiwan.

Thomas L. Egbert is in the U.S. Navy, stationed
at NAS Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Fla. He flies
the FA-18 Hornet and is scheduled to go overseas
on the USS Coral Sea in September.

1st Lt. Harry A. Feuerstein recently moved to
Reston, Va., where he continues to work with
Touche Ross & Co. as a senior auditor. He is still
active in the Army as a member of the Virginia
National Guard.

Eric A. Heinsohn received a master’s degree in
English literature from the University of Virginia
in 1985. Since then he has teamed up with Roger
Day, ’85, to form the acoustic guitar/vocal duo
Heinsohn & Day. They are based in Atlanta and
have enjoyed steadily growing popularity.

Deane A. Hennett works in the internal audit
department of the Heilig-Meyers Co. in
Richmond.

Samuel B. Hollis Jr. recently accepted a position
with Cushman & Wakefield’s office leasing divi-
sion in Atlanta.

R. Brooke Lewis (See 1976).

F. Eric Nelson is a real estate finance officer with
United Virginia Bank in Richmond.

Israel K. Redd is sales manager for Burke-Parsons-
Bowlby. He lives in Lexington.

Samuel S. Stroud Jr. moved to New York City in
June 1986 to work for the investment advisory firm
of Quest Advisory Corp.

1984

MARRIAGE; Paul F. Chapman and Lynne
Michelle Ferguson on June 21, 1986, in Palo Alto,
Calif. Glenn Kirschner, ’84, was best man. Chap-
man is a third-year graduate student in psychology
at Stanford University.

MARRIAGE: James C. Clark and Elyse F. Billera
on Nov. 15, 1986, in Short Hills, N.J. Groomsmen
included classmates David Judge and Glenn
Kirschner and Eric Anderson, ’82L. Clark is a
senior sales representative with Bausch & Lomb
personal products division in Philadelphia.

Andrew W. Asimos is a student at the University
of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.

Geoffrey R.B. Carey has been promoted to super-
visor of Shareholder Services at T. Rowe Price
Associates, an investment firm in Baltimore.

Thomas L.H. Cocke is attending The Portfolio
Center in Atlanta, where he is studying advertis-
ing copywriting.

Lee R. Feldman is assistant city manager of North
Miami Beach, Fla., a resort city with a $35 million
budget and 450 employees. In 1986 Feldman
graduated from the Fels Center of Government at
the University of Pennsylvania.

Jack L. Goldsmith graduated from Oxford Univer-
sity with first-class honors in philosophy, politics,
and economics. He is now a first-year student at
Yale Law School.

Gregory H. Haynes recently moved back to his
hometown of Charleston, W. Va., where he works
with the New England-Syntek Financial Group.

James C. Hudson is still working for Computer
Data Systems. He was promoted to senior member
of the technical staff and is currently working on
contract as a systems analyst at the Department
of Labor.

Russell M. (Rusty) Lee Jr. has become meetings
coordinator for the Travel Industry Association
of America in Washington, D.C., where he lives
with Tony A. Trujillo, ’82L.

Steven E. Lewis is an investment officer in the
bond and money market group at First Wachovia
Bank in Winston-Salem, N.C.

1st Lt. Edward J. O’Brien has assumed command
of Alpha Company, 54th Engineer Battalion, a
mechanized combat engineer battalion that con-
ducts engineer operations near the East German
border. Prior to assuming command, O’Brien was
the company’s executive officer.

Laurie A. Rachford is an associate at the
Washington, D.C., offices of Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft.

David C. Short is an associate with the marketing
firm of Russell E. Brown & Associates, based in
Hilton Head Island, S.C.

After spending seven months working for the
European Community in Brussels, Belgium,
Michael E. Singer plans to continue his graduate
studies in the international relations program at
the London School of Economics. He had
previously done work on his master of arts degree
in international relations at Syracuse University.

Ist Lt. Eric G. Storey completed U.S. Army
Ranger School and Pathfinder School and will be
assigned as the forward reconnaissance platoon
leader at Panmunjon, Korea.

George E. Youmans Jr. is a commercial officer
for First Wachovia Corporate Services in Atlanta.

1985

MARRIAGE: Cheryl K. Boggs and Jeff Walsh on
Dec. 20, 1986, in St. Albans, W.Va. She and her
husband work at Streich, Lang, Weeks & Cardon
in Phoenix, Ariz., where he is a litigator, and she
practices tax law.

MARRIAGE: William Paul Johnson and Rebec-
ca Jane Nichols on Aug. 23, 1986, in Lee Chapel.
They are both attorneys practicing with the Hinkle
law firm in Roswell, N.M.

G. Bryan Balazs is working on a Ph.D. in
chemistry at Caltech. He lives in Pasadena, Calif.

Ian G. Banwell is a Euro CD trader for North
Carolina National Bank Corp. in Charlotte.

Lesley M. Conradi passed the Ohio Bar in
February 1986 and is doing contracts for the Ohio
National Life Insurance Co. She made her movie
debut dancing in a holiday production of
Thackeray’s short story ‘‘Mrs. Perkins’s Ball.’’

Thomas A. Fitzgerald II is a second-year student
at the Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the Col-
lege of William and Mary.

Capt. Gordon R. Hammock is stationed in Aviano
AB, Italy, with the U.S. Air Force, where he is
chief of civil law with the 40th Tactical Group.

Glen O. Jackson was promoted to account ex-
ecutive at A. Brown-Olmstead Associates, an
Atlanta-based public relations and corporate com-
munications firm.

Fred A. Lackey is now a supervisor with Road-
way Express and has been transferred to Roanoke.

1st Lt. Robert N. Miller is stationed at Fort Oro,
Calif., and serves as fire direction officer for A
Battery, 6th Battalion, 8th Field Artillery.

James J. Werner Jr. is an editorial assistant in the
White House News Summary Office under the
direction of Benjamin F. Jarratt II, ’82.

J. Robert Woofter Jr., who is practicing law in
Anchorage, argued his first Alaska Supreme Court
appeal last November. The case is currently under
advisement and should be published in the Pacific
Reporter this spring. He and his wife, Lucy, have
two sons, Brett Wolfgang and Robert III.

1986

MARRIAGE: Nelson R. Patterson and Debra D.
Moore on Aug. 16, 1986, in Jefferson City, Mo.
B. Scott Tilley, ’85, was a groomsman. Patterson
is an assistant account executive with Brown
Direct, the direct response group of the Earle
Palmer Brown Cos. in Bethesda, Md., and his wife
is an economist with the U.S. Department of State.

Christen A. Alevizatos is a first-year medical stu-
dent at Vanderbilt University. He keeps busy serv-
ing as the class president and co-chairman of the
note-taking service. He also plays soccer for the
med school city league team and lacrosse for the
undergraduate club team.

W&L 37

 

Troy E. Andrade is enrolled at the University of

Santa Clara School of Law in Santa Clara, Calif.

David T. Arthur is project manager for Rose-Mal
Realty Trust Co. in Cambridge, Mass.

David M. Butler is a credit analyst with Mercan-
tile Safe Deposit and Trust in Baltimore.

John P. Case III is a management recruiter for
N.C. National Bank in Tampa, Fla.

H.M. Chapman Jr. is currently at Fort Sill, Okla.,
for Field Artillery Officer Basic School.

Anita D. Filson and Thomas C. Spencer, ’69L,
have associated to form Spencer & Filson in
Lexington.

Paul R. Foutch has been promoted to weekend
news editor of The Alabama Journal and The
Advertiser, the afternoon and morning newspapers
in Montgomery.

J. Steven Grist is an attorney with McGinnis,
Lochridge & Kilgore in Austin, Texas.

Patrick L. Hayden is a first-year law student at
Marshall-Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary.

Jaimie L. Hayne worked on the campaign for
Republican congressman-elect Lamar Smith of the
21st District of Texas from mid-August to
November. He is now a management trainee for
Paisano Cattle Co. in Marathon, Texas.

Julian (Jay) Hennig III is a first-year law student
at the University of South Carolina.

Lee M. Hollis has returned after spending four
months traveling and working in Europe. He now
lives in Charlotte and began work with First Union
National Bank in the corporate training program
in January. He lives with classmate W. Watson
Barnes Jr.

Christopher J. Komosa is a financial analyst for
Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City.

Brian H. Miles is pursuing a master’s degree in
mechanical engineering at Purdue University. He
is conducting thesis research in atomization at the
Purdue’s Thermal Science and Propulsion Center.

W. Price Pollard is a salesman at Virginia In-
dustrial Sales in Richmond.

After working for several months as an ROTC
recruiter at W&L, 2nd Lt. John S. Sanders is now
attending Field Artillery Officer Basic School at
Fort Sill, Okla. Beginning in April Sanders will
be stationed in Germany with an armored cavalry
unit that patrols the East German border.

Thomas G. Spilsbury is a marketing manager
trainee for Viking Corp., a Swedish manufacturer
of home appliances in Huntington, N.Y.

Robert Treat Jr. is on a Fulbright Scholarship do-
ing research at the Paul Ehrlich Institute in
Frankfurt, West Germany, until August 1987.

Matthew Rapp Vawter has completed the train-
ing program at the United Missouri Bank in Kan-
sas City, Mo.

Yvonne Steenstra Wellford is working in the litiga-
tion section of the Richmond law firm of McGuire,
Woods & Battle.

Cranston Reade Williams is a first-year law stu-
dent at the University of Virginia.

 

Have some news? Information for the Class
Notes section should be sent to Class Notes,
the Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall,
Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

 

 

 

38 —- W&L

 

In Memoriam

 

1908

Martin Bijur O’Sullivan, an attorney from
Louisville, Ky., died Nov. 28, 1986, at the age of
99. He served in World War II. In Louisville, he
was a member of the American Business Club,
Louisville Boat Club, and Jefferson Post American

Legion.
1917

William Olin Burtner, a retired U.S. Department
of Justice attorney, died Dec. 23, 1986. He
graduated from W&L’s law school in 1921 and
received a master of law degree from George
Washington University. From 1934 until his retire-
ment in 1967, Burtner reviewed more than 6,000
documents signed by four U.S. presidents from
Franklin Roosevelt to John Kennedy. He was
elected to the honor fraternities of Phi Beta Kap-
pa, Delta Sigma Rho, Alpha Chi Rho, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Phi Delta Phi. He taught law
for 15 years at Southeastern University in
Washington, D.C., and served in the Navy dur-
ing World War I. He was on the board of trustees
of Shenandoah College and Conservatory of
Music. Burton was also a member and a former
Bible class teacher of the Otterbein United
Methodist Church and a member of the Harrison-
burg Elks Lodge, the Valley Shrine Club, Acca
Temple of Richmond, the Scottish Rite of Free
Masonry of Alexandria, and the National Associa-
tion of Retired Federal Employees.

1921

William Olin Burtner (See 1917).

1923

Ernest Leé Jones, retired secretary-treasurer of
Snively Groves Inc., died Nov. 22, 1986, at
Heritage Nursing Homes in Bradenton, Fla. He
was chairman of the board of deacons of the First
Presbyterian Church in Winter Haven, Fla. He was
a member of the Salvation Army, Rotary, Elks,
and Masons. Jones is the former chairman of the
Polk County Budget Committee and vice chair-
man for the 7th Congressional District’s
Republican State Executive Committee.

George Cantrell Mason Jr., retired president of
Gem-Dandy Inc., died May 15, 1986. Mason
started work as a coffee buyer for Oliver-Finnie
Co. in Memphis, Tenn. In 1928, he joined Gem-
Dandy, a manufacturer of apparel and apparel ac-
cessories. He retired in the early 1970s. He was
chairman of the Madison, N.C., School Board for
12 years and the Red Cross chapter and president
of the Madison Rotary Club. He was also direc-
tor of Northwestern Bank. In addition, he was an
elder emeritus in the Presbyterian Church. Mason
was included in World Who’s Who in Commerce
and Industry and Who’s Who in the South and
Southeast.

John Wilson Steer, retired vice president of Brown,
Harris, Stevens Inc. of New York City, died Feb.
2, 1987. He lived in Hannibal, N.Y.

Thomas Morrell Wade Jr., retired vice president
of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., died Jan.
15, 1987. Wade was born in Lexington and taught
chemistry at W&L at one time. In 1925 he started
work as a chemical engineer with the Belle Alkali
Co. in Charleston, W.Va. Three years later he

went into the tobacco business as a chemist in
Petersburg, Va. In 1939, Wade moved to
Louisville, Ky., where he was a chemist for Brown
& Williamson. He was elected to the board of
directors in 1952 and vice president the following
year. Wade retired in 1965. In Louisville, he was
a member of the Audubon Country Club and the
Presbyterian Church.

1925

Thomas Harris Broadus, retired Knoxville, Tenn.,
insurance company executive, died Dec. 26, 1986.
After graduation from W&L, where he was a
member of ODK, he attended the Harvard
Business School and received his M.B.A. in 1931.
He started his career in New Orleans, but moved
to Knoxville in the mid-1930s to take a job with
the Park National Bank. In the late 1930s he
started Thos. Broadus & Co., one of Knoxville’s
leading insurance companies. Broadus was a ma-
jor contributor to Children’s Hospital and was ap-
pointed to the hospital’s development council in
1977. He was also a member of the First Baptist
Church and Cherokee Country Club.

Allan Poe Sloan of Greenville, S.C., died Jan. 19,
1987. Sloan was sports editor and assignment
reporter for the Greenville News for three years.
In 1928, he joined Jeff Hunt Machinery Inc. where
he became an executive before leaving the com-
pany in 1964. He joined the Daniel Construction
Co. in that same year as an equipment consultant.
He retired in 1970. Sloan was a captain and lieute-
nant colonel in the Army in the mid-1940s. He was
a communicant of St. James Episcopal Church in

Greenville.
1926

Griffin Gordon Caldwell of Colorado Springs,
Colo., died Dec. 25, 1986. He was co-founder and
executive vice president of Southgate Bank, now
First American Bank. Upon leaving W&L, he
earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Virginia. He served during World War I as a
private in the 323rd Infantry. He was secretary of
the Chamber of Commerce in Las Animas, Colo.,
a Shriner, and a member of Disabled American
Veterans and the First Presbyterian Church. He
was also a 32nd degree Mason and member of the
Center Masonic Lodge.

1927

James Spencer Jones, retired managing editor of
the Marshall News Messenger, died Aug. 30, 1986.
Jones worked for Marshall, Texas, newspapers for
more than 50 years as a reporter, sports editor,
oil editor, and managing editor. He was also oil-
gas news writer for east Texas, Houston, and
Dallas-Fort Worth, as well as for the Longview
and Shreveport, La., papers. He was the first
editor for journalist Bill Moyers when Moyers
started his newspaper career. Jones retired in 1969
but continued to write oil news and feature stories
for papers in Shreveport and Longview. He was
president of the East Texas Sports Writers Associa-
tion, the Elks Club, and the First Methodist

Church.
1929

Harry Broward Fozzard, an attorney from
Jacksonville, Fla., died April 28, 1986. Four years
after graduating from W&L’s law school, where
he was senior class president, Fozzard opened his
own law office in Jacksonville. He was named tax
attorney for the city and later assistant city at-
torney. During the war years, he served in the
Coast Guard reserve. After leaving the city at-
torney’s office, he represented, in special matters,
the county, the county budget commission, and

 

 

Emory Kimbrough Jr.

Emory Kimbrough Jr., professor and
head of the department of sociology and
anthropology, died Jan. 8 in Clarksville,
Tenn. He was 52.

   

. Kimbrough’s

death was the result of
brain cancer. He had
previously had a
tumor removed from
his brain in 1968.

The faculty of the
University adopted
the following memorial resolution at its
February meeting:

‘‘Born and raised in Clarksville,
Tenn., Emory graduated from Davidson
College in 1957 cum laude, Phi Beta Kap-
pa, with honors in sociology. He receiv-
ed an M.A. degree in 1959 and a Ph.D.
degree in 1963, both from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dur-
ing this period he held a national
Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and an
Odum Fellowship.

‘‘During his tenure at Washington
and Lee he distinguished himself in many
ways. He served diligently on many im-
portant campus committees, including the

Committee on Courses and Degrees, the
Faculty Executive Committee, the
University Council, the University
Library Committee, and the Admissions
Committee. He was a visiting professor
at the University of North Carolina,
Hollins College, Vanderbilt University,
and Chung Chi College of the Chinese
University of Hong Kong.

*‘He published articles in Social
Forces, and the Virginia Social Science
Journal, read papers to the American,
Southern, and Mid-Atlantic Sociological
Societies, and contributed book reviews
to Social Forces and the Roanoke Times
& World-News. In recent years he par-
ticipated in courses and seminars at Ox-
ford dealing with such diverse subjects as
medieval archaeology, evolution, and the
development of industrial communities.

‘‘Emory will be remembered best by
his students and his colleagues as a
dedicated, committed teacher of under-
graduates, spending countless hours
preparing his lectures, counseling stu-
dents, and agonizing about the quality of
work in his classes. It is probably fair to
say that Emory was at his most effective
level of teaching during the last year of
his life—a life dedicated to improving

his performance in the classroom.

*‘Emory, a true Washington and Lee
‘gentleman,’ was also a gentle man. He
was always gracious, polite, honorable,
and genuine in his relationships with
students and colleagues, or almost all the
time. Like all memorable professors he
had his little quirks: his offbeat brand of
humor, his meticulous scheduling of time,
and particularly his detailed descriptions
of his itinerary on his many trips out of
the United States.

‘*Most people who knew Emory well
will probably remember his courage. He
lived for 19 years knowing that he would
not have a normal lifespan. Perhaps that
is why he tried to make every minute
count. He worked at improving himself
right to the end.

‘‘Emory had many friends on the
Washington and Lee campus, and those
who had the privilege of knowing him
well will agree that we have lost a splen-
did teacher, a diligent researcher, and,
above all, a good friend.’’

A memorial fund has been establish-
ed in Kimbrough’s honor at Washington
and Lee. Gifts to this fund should be
directed to the University’s Office of
Development.

 

 

 

the classroom teachers association. He was later
named as attorney for the city council and was also
the attorney for the legislative delegation in
Tallahassee. Fozzard was a member of the
Masons, Scottish Rite, and Shriners in Jackson-
ville. He was also a charter member of the
Jacksonville Power Squadron, Kirby Smith Sons
of the Confederate Veterans, and Jacksonville
Marine Association.

1930

Richard Conner Ammerman died Nov. 18, 1986.
He practiced law for 40 years in France. He was
imprisoned by the Germans in 1941. Upon release
he joined the OSS and returned to France during
the Normandy Invasion. He lived in Oklahoma Ci-
ty his last 12 years.

Alfred Slaughter Wagner Jr., a retired Dallas in-
surance executive, died Nov. 26, 1986. He served
as a commander in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific
during World War II. Wagner was a founder of
the Munger, Wagner & Moore Insurance Co. in
Dallas before joining the insurance division of the
American Automobile Association in 1963. In
Dallas, he held membership in the Idlewild, the
Terpsichorean, and the St. Christopher’s Episcopal

Church. 1 9 3 1

Michael Lee (born Abe Joseph Leibowitz), retired
sports editor of the Long Island Daily Press, died
Nov. 22, 1986. Lee wrote about sports for more
than 50 years and was known as the ‘‘Dean of
Long Island Sports Writers.’’ He was a member

of the New York Racing and Wagering Board and
the New York Racing Association and was a cor-
respondent for the AP, UPI, and New York Dai-
ly News. He was chairman of the Baseball Writers
of America; president of New York Turf Writers;
a member of the Basketball Writers Association
and the Football Writers Association of America;
a member of the board of trustees of Central
Queens YMCA; president of Jamaica Rotary
Club; and master of Rufus King Masonic Lodge.
The U.S. Harness Writers Association, of which
he was founder and president, honored him with
its Proximity Achievement and with election to its
Hall of Fame in 1983. He was named ‘‘Man of
the Year’’ by Harness Writers, by the National
Conference of Christians and Jews, and by the
Metropolitan YMCA Conference. He received the
Liberty Bell Award for Community Service from
Queens County Bar Association; the Paul Harris
Rotary International Award for Service; the
Masonic Award for Distinguished Service; and the
Distinguished Service Award from the Long Island
chapter of United Epilepsy. He was also named
to Who’s Who in America. On Nov. 20, 1983, Lee
was honored with a ‘‘Mike Lee Day’’ and recep-
tion at Shea Stadium’s Diamond Club, which was
attended by 600 people, including New York Gov.
Mario Cuomo. Cuomo called Lee ‘‘a wonderful
person, a great newspaperman and a dedicated
community leader who closed out his career as a
public servant doing work he loved and knew well.
He had the kind of class his legions of friends and
fans will remember for many years to come.”’

132

Augustus Howard Bickerstaff Jr., a retired ac-
count executive for J.C. Bradford & Co., died
Nov. 14, 1986. He joined Elder & Co. in 1959 and
remained with the New York Stock Exchange
member firm for 13 years before his affiliation
with J.C. Bradford & Co. He retired in 1969.

Augustus Reid Merrill of Andalusia, Ala., died

Aug. 28, 1986.
1933

Judge Joe Martin Ingram Jr., a circuit court judge
for 40 years, died Oct. 29, 1986. He was first
elected judge in the 11th Judicial Circuit in 1942
and served continuously until his retirement in
1982. At that time, the chief justice of the Ten-
nessee Supreme Court issued a blanket designa-
tion for Ingram to serve at the discretion of the
presiding judge of the 22nd Judicial Circuit. A
resolution passed by the Maury County Bar
Association in 1982, honoring him upon his retire-
ment, read, ‘‘He tried every known type of case,
both criminal and civil, many of which were land-
mark cases, and his decisions have seldom been
reversed by the appellate court. His compassion
for people, courtesy to the public, absolute dedica-
tion to the principles of justice and his knowledge
of the law have been unsurpassed in the history
of the state of Tennessee.’’

George William Musser, an attorney from Indiana,
Pa., died Oct. 19, 1985. After graduating from
W&L, he attended the Dickinson School of Law

W&L 39

 

in Carlisle, Pa. He graduated in 1936 and was ad-
mitted to the Pennsylvania courts that fall. With
offices in Indiana, Musser practiced in various
courts of Pennsylvania. He served in the U.S.
Naval Reserve during World War II. Musser was
also active in the banking business and held posi-
tions as director of the Laurel National Bank and
president of the First National Bank of Edinburg,
both in Pennsylvania. For 25 years he was presi-
dent of the Peoples Bank of Clymer, Pa., and also
served as president of Musser Forests Inc. He was

the former president of the Indiana Rotary Club_

and the Indiana County Bar Associations and was
a member of the Pennsylvania and American Bar
Association, the Indiana Country Club, and
various Masonic organizations.

Augustus Pembroke Thomson, a Warren Coun-
ty, Va., orchardist who pioneered biological
methods of farming and set up several organiza-
tions to promote those methods, died May 12,
1986. For four decades, Thomson grew apples and
processed juice and cider without chemical
pesticides, herbicides, or fertilizers on his farm near
Front Royal. He founded the Virginia Association
of Biological Farms and was president several
terms. At the time of his death, he was president
of Natural Foods Associates, a national organiza-
tion based in Texas. During World War II, Thom-
son was a Navy lieutenant commander and after-
wards was employed by the Navy Department until
his retirement in 1966.

1935

Carney Graham Laslie Jr. died Dec. 30, 1986. He
served with the U.S. government for 35 years.
From 1943 to 1945, he was with the U.S. Army,
and he served as counselor of commercial affairs
under the State Department at U.S. embassies in
India and Japan from 1957 to 1965. Laslie retired
from the State Department in 1971 and moved to
Shreveport, La., where he was an adjunct pro-
fessor in government at Centenary College. He was
also a ‘‘Current Events’’ lecturer at the Woman’s
Department Club and active in the continuing
education program at Centenary. In Washington,
D.C., Laslie served as a deacon of the Georgetown
Presbyterian Church. He was listed in Who’s Who
in the South and Who’s Who in the Southwest.
He was a veteran of World War II.

1938
Arthur Lugrin Jr. died on Oct. 23, 1986. He was

retired from the Ris Paper Co. in New York Ci-
ty, where he served as president.

Charles Rufus Skinner III, retired assistant pur-
chasing manager for Grumman Aerospace Corp.,
died June 28, 1986. He was promoted to purchas-
ing agent for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Corp. in
1952. Seven years later he was named director of
purchasing at Laboratory for Electronics Inc. In
1963, he joined Grumman and a year later joined
its purchasing staff. He was a member of the Na-
tional Association of Purchasing Management.

1939

Judge Robert Winston Bain, retired judge of the
Circuit Court of the City of Portsmouth, Va.,
Third Judicial Court, died Sept. 2, 1986. He was
a member of the House of Delegates, General
Assembly of Virginia from 1950 to 1953. After
graduation he practiced law in Portsmouth for two
years before entering the armed forces. He saw 27
months of action in the Pacific. He was honorably
discharged and was a captain in the Marine Corps
reserves. He was commander of the American
Legion Post and a member of the Portsmouth
Junior Chamber of Commerce, the Elks, junior

40 W&L

board of the YMCA, and St. John’s Episcopal
Church.

William Paul Kesel, retired executive of Litton In-
dustries, died Feb. 19, 1986. He served 33 years
with Litton in administrative, engineering, and
sales capacities with the internal division. Kesel’s

_ first job was in Seattle as a branch manager with

Hewitt Rubber Co. For three years in the
mid-1940s he was a captain with the Army Air

Corps.
1940

- Temple Jackson English Jr., retired personnel ad-

ministrator of Conwed Corp., died Dec. 31, 1986.
He started with the Kieckhefer Container Corp.
before its merger into Weyerhaeuser and his pro-
motion to personnel manager. In 1959, he joined
Conwed in Cloquet, Minn., which manufactures
ceiling board, tile, and insulation. English was a
lieutenant in the Air Corps of the U.S. Naval
Reserve. He was a member of Rotary, the Carlton

County, Minn., Alcohol Committee, and St. An- .

drew Episcopal Church.

1942

William Charles McDonough died Dec. 12, 1986.

1944

James Withers Davis Jr. of Montgomery, Ala.,
died Nov. 24, 1986. He was president of the E.B.
Joseph Co. for general insurance-and real estate.
Davis was president of the Association of In-
surance Agents, director and secretary of the
Montgomery Kiwanis Club, chairman of the
Montgomery County Educational Foundation,
and a member of the Montgomery County
Republican Committee. He was a member of
Trinity Presbyterian Church and served as a
deacon for 15 years and as a member of the board
for seven years. He was also a veteran of World
War II.

John Quincy Miller Jr. died Nov. 11, 1986. After

s
me

 

graduating from W&L’s law school in 1951, Miller
was an auditor for the Tennessee Department of
Finance and Taxation for two years. He joined
Leader Federal Savings and Loan Association in
Memphis, Tenn., and later moved to Opelousas,
La., and joined Planters Trust and Savings Bank
where he became a senior vice president. He
chaired several committees at Colonial Park
Methodist Church and was also president, direc-
tor, and fund-raising chairman for the Memphis
Civitan Club. He was president, director, and in-
stitute governor of the American Savings and Loan
Institute and was chairman of the loan service
committee of the Memphis Mortgage Bankers
Association. In Opelousas, he held several direc-
torships with Planters Trust and Savings.

1950

Mitchell Ives Lewis, a former Dallas public rela-
tions executive, died Dec. 12, 1986. Lewis served
as publicity director for the McClendon Corp.
from 1959 until 1970 when he formed the public
relations firm of Mitchell Lewis & Associates. He
was a longtime associate of Gordon McClendon
and ran McClendon’s campaign for senator and
governor of Texas. Prior to his affiliation with the
McClendon Corp., Lewis worked for the Dallas
Morning News, Bloom Advertising Agency, and
Couchman Advertising Agency as general
manager. He served as president of the Dallas
Advertising Association from 1955 to 1957. Lewis
was a member of the Brookhaven Country Club,
Las Sietes Soles, and the Dallas Press Club.

[oo

John Quincy Miller Jr. (See 1949).

1990

Daniel Ewing Martin of Lexington, Ky., died Feb.
10, 1987, in a car accident near Natural Bridge.
Martin was a pledge of Kappa Alpha. He was the
son of George Daniel Martin and Phyllis Porter,
both of Lexington, Ky.

And
Furthermore

 

Proper Credit

EDITOR:

Credit where credit is due.

I would like to acknowledge the efforts of
Westinghouse’s Institute for Resource Develop-
ment that lay behind the A.I.D.-sponsored
research project described in my article, ‘‘Pover-
ty and Health,’’ which appeared in the
January/February 1987 issue of the Alumni
Magazine.

BRUCE HERRICK
Lexington, Va.

A Thank You

EDITOR:

I just wanted to write and say thank you for
your splendid magazine.

I look forward to its arrival each issue and find
that it never fails to be evocative ‘‘a la recherche
du temps perdu.’’ I appreciate being kept close to
W&L in this way, and I hope you will keep up the
good work. .
THE Rev. JAcK E. ALTMAN III, ’74

Savannah, Ga.

Address letters to ‘‘And Furthermore,’’ The
Alumni Magazine, Reid Hall, Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA 24450.

A vacation ought to be inspiring as well as relaxing. . .

 

The 1987 W&L Alumni College

Learning Vacations for the Entire Family

July 5-11 ‘‘Patriots and Politicos: Perspectives on American Politics’’

A wide-ranging consideration of the key political leaders and issues of our time, with special focus on
the media, the presidency, the economy, Congress, and the Constitution.

With Bruce Herrick and Delos Hughes. Special appearances by M. Caldwell Butler, Norman Dobyns,
Charles McDowell, Tom Riegel, G. William Whitehurst, and Tom Wolfe.

July 12-18 ‘“‘L’Age des Lumieres: France in the Eighteenth Century”’

Voltaire, Rousseau, Boucher, Wathea, and Louis XIV-XVI—the art, politics, and literature of the
Enlightenment. Tour will follow in 1988.

With Lamar J. R. Cecil, Gerard M. Doyon, and G. Francis Drake. Special appearance by Douglas
Lewis, curator of sculpture and decorative arts at the National Gallery.

August 17-23 ‘‘Shakespeare at Stratford (Ontario)’’

A week of great theater, Shakespeare and modern, at the justly famous Stratford Festival in Ontario,
Canada. First-class accommodations in Toronto and Stratford.
With George Ray and Susan Still.

For further information, contact:

Robert Fure, Director

Office of Summer Programs
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

 

The Alumni Magazine of niin Probes
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY U.S. Poste.
Lexington, Virginia 24450 | , ae
; Permit No. 6238
Cincinnati, OH

 

 

 

 

a
mmm a

 

“Lexington has its rightful share of landmarks, but it also has
Washington and Lee University, which certainly rates as one of the g

most beautiful universities in the country. If you have any doubts, all
you have to do is see the selection of color photographs compiled by
Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer William Strode. ’’

—The Richmond Times-Dispatch

Washington and Lee University, a photographic essay by na-
tionally acclaimed photographer William Strode, is available now
through the Washington and Lee Bookstore. The 112-page volume
features not only Strode’s photography but includes an introductory
essay by Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’46, the S. Blount Mason Jr.
Professor of English, and a series of historical photos.

 

‘The standard edition is priced at $35, including postage and handling.
There is also a limited supply of the deluxe, leather-bound edition, slip-

cased and autographed by the photographer; it is priced at $100. b
Order directly from the Washington and Lee Bookstore, Lexington, j
Virginia 24450. 7

 

 

 

